

■ > '-V 'irSr- : > \ _
BY AGE
R. G. WATKINS CO.,
Machinery Merchants! 107 KLoaXti Street, SydLney,
—FOK—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in ail parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
dll 50 IQ O 3131 d 30 IklOW M S W
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. Aml at lelephone: No. 225 Central.
186 Jastlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-21 7 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
fghfg
h
HOBART.
SSISS
fiadleys Orient |jotel.
Richardson’s
Wine 8 Spirit Stores,
68 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
158 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
fgh
Bottle, Case or Gallon at Whole
HAMS
BAC®
H.B
utsasi
saanHG
ANTI BLOWPIPE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
Junket
HANSENS
gh
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
'em
1 111
ft*
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
gf
hfg
BECK’S LAGER
ER
SSL-
xS
W
l
as
THE NEW PANELLING.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO. LTD.,
WOULD you like your living rooms to look better than
they do ? Would you like to have them panelled—
have them look like the beautiful rooms in the Old
Country Homes? Yes? 7'hen panel them with AMIWUD—
the new decorating material that looks like Hardwood, but
costs a lot less. You can be supplied in Light Oak, Dark
Oak, Mahogany or Jenisero. May we send you samples
and prices? Both will cost you but a letter to have.
D. S. EVANS, Australasian Representative,
JIG-NTH EVERYWHERE.
CHallis House, SYDNEY
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T9
hf
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U?
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
UEEN
5 5
it
BACON and HAMS.
gh
HELIDON SPA
Three reasons why HELIDON SPA triumphs as a Perfect Table Water:
1st —Rapid absorption. 2nd—Rapid circulation. 3rd—Rapid elimination.
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
Phillip St., Sydney, and Redtern
The Bulletin
Vol. 35 No. 1786.]
[Thursday, May 7, 1914.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, IST.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


-m-
It’s the best—that's why !
A machine oiled with “3-in-
One” has quiet, easy action,
does better work, and lasts longer.
“Three-in-One” Oil
lubricates the fine action-parts
perfectly, removes all dirt, and
prevents rust.
It keeps the type-faces, keys,
and all other parts in beautiful
order.
Cleanest Oil in the World 1
It won t mark the paper. Never
smears nor thxkens.
“Three-in-One” Oil
is sold in Bottles and Handy Can.
Sample Bottle and Booklet
Free I Send NOW,
REID & REID,
Anstralasiaa Agents,
[2 P, HARRIS STii, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
1 O - HAINES
ENGINEERING BOORS.
KEMPE’S ENGINEER’S YEAR BOOK FOR 1914
Revised by Specialists. 15/- (Gd.)
fg
Molesworth’s Pocket Book, new ed. 6/- (2d.).
Sup lee’s Mechanical Engineers’ Reference Book,
21/- (3d.).
Croft’s American Electricians’ Handbook. 15/-.
Bailey’s Strowger Automatic Exchange. 2/6 (2d.).
Hart’s AVelding (Thermit, etc.), illus. 12/6 (4d.).
Roberts and Smith: Practical Locomotive. 10/6 (5d.),
At
CO. PROP’T’Y, LTD., 238 PITT STREET,
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
For Coughs! Colds! Influenza! L£T TH e buyer bewarei
OUJu
. ■■
g.Hudson:
POST FREE ON RECEIPT i t/L
OF STAMPS,
The large sale for “EUMENTHOL JU-
JUBES” has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of men-
thol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure and get
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES. You
may be asked to buy other jujubes, and be
told they are “just as good” as Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes. This proves that these
imitations and substitutes have no reputa-
tion of their own, and can oftly be sold on the
good repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS,
or from the Manufacturers—
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY. [2
The Red Page
The Russian Novel.
Though E. Melchior de Vogiid’s masterly
analysis of The Russian Kovel was written
(in French) in 1886, it is only from the
eleventh French edition that it is translated
into English (Chapman and Hall, 7s. 6d.).
This tardiness emphasises the slowness with
which the Russian novel is making its way
into the consciousness of English literature.
A manual such as this has long been needed,
and in itself the book will accelerate the
translation into English of the great modern
realists of Russia. The author, made a
member of the Acaddmie Frangaise because
of this work, was received by the Russian
Government with honor when, in 1909, he
went thither to take part in the celebration
of Gogol’s centenary. He died in Paris in
1910.
Without the historical perspective so
clearly delineated by de Vogtid, without, too,
the knowledge of the origins of the Russian
novel so cleanly laid bare, such a novelist as
Dostoevsky, when read in translation, offers
too many obstacles to complete comprehen-
sion by, say, the average intelligent Aus-
tralian. No reader could fail to recognise
the genius of this novelist; but, for a fairer
appreciation of him it is necessary for us to
“place” him, and other modern Russian
novelists, in their right environment, to see
them as the natural blossom of the strange
literary soil of Russia.
A country of vacuous minds, like those
of the seafarer: self-centred, long-suffering
and resigned, subject to sudden passions of
desire. A soil better suited to dwellers in
tents thafl in houses, where the ideas are as
nomadic as are the inhabitants themselves.
Just as the cold blasts from the White Sea
find no obstacles in their way to the Black
Sea, so do invasions, calamities and the sor-
rows of slavery pass rapidly and irresistibly
over these vast, empty spaces. \
<£*
Five landmarks are selected by the author
for his survey—-Pushkin, Gogol, Turgeneff,
Dostoevsky and Tolstoy. The novel in
Russia is of humble origin, and its history
prior to 1840 was neither long nor brilliant.
Gogol was its founder. All the later novelists
have drawn upon him; are derived from
him. In form and substance Gogol has done
everything for his successors. The majority
of the types presented to us in the Russian
novel have their beginning in Dead Souls.
Such a character of the energetic landed
proprietor, full of vague ideals for the better-
ment of the serfs, who, failing to transform
his ideals into reality, grows disgusted, with-
draws within himself and enters the final
state of torpor, reappears in many forms,
under many different conditions, “but always
carrying the same half-dozen master-strokes
of description assigned to him by Gogol.”
“A fund of characters and a fund of ideas!
The. great currents of thought that are to
fertilise the Russian mind will ever flow
from this first source.”
Dead Souls has never ceased to be looked
upon, as a true personification of ancient
Russia. For the last 40 years it is the
mainspring of national life. Every joke
has passed into a proverb; every character
has a permanent place in the ideal society
to be found in the standard literature of
every country. The stranger who has not
read Dead Souls often comes to a standstill
in conversation, out of ignorance of the an-
cestral and family traditions to which refer-
ences are made at every turn.
The author emphasises another of the dif-
ferences that so significantly divide the Rus-
sian soul from ours. The Russian public
does not read its novelists for diversion, nor
does it expect a novel to be a work of art.
“What is to us a superfluous luxury is to
the Russians the soul’s daily bread. The
writer is the guide of his race, the master of
a multitude of confused ideas, and in a small
measure the constructor of their language.”
The lower classes are only commencing to
read, and read with avidity, with faith and
hope, as we read Robinson Crusoe at the
age of 12. They are “virgin soil.” Their
imaginations are not deadened, as with us,
by the vastness of our means of educa-
tion. . . . After reading Father and Son or
War and Peace we say to ourselves: “It is
only a novel.” But to the tradesman in Mos-
cow or the son of the village priest, to the
small landholder, whose bookshelves contain
volumes of Pushkin, Gogol or Nekrasoff, re-
presenting the encyclopaedia of the human
mind—each of the first-named volumes be-
comes one of the books in the National Bible.
<£
Another of the characteristics of Russian
literature that appears strange to us—the
fact that the Russian writer never attacks
an abuse —has an obvious explanation. The
press laws suppress anything of the kind.
Thus Russian literature must proceed by
indirect means. The novelist merely depicts
without arriving at any conclusions, since he
is not allowed by the police to arrive at any
conclusions; he is forced to get his effect by
an appeal to the feelings of compassion
rather than those of anger. Thus when
Dostoevsky publishes his Recollections of the
House of the Dead —that terrible personal
recollection of ten years in Siberia —“he
writes just in the same way, without utter-
ing a single rebellious word, without a drop
of gall, appearing to find all he writes about
as quite natural, perhaps a little sad. This
is the national characteristic in everything.”
It is in Dostoevsky that this national
religion of suffering finds its final expres-
sion. De Vogiid says that the Russia of the
last 20 years will remain an inexplicable
enigma if one ignores the books which have
made the deepest impression and created
the greatest disturbance in the country dur-
ing that time —the books of Dostoevsky.
Of this writer’s literary method the author
makes a penetrating analysis.
What is most remarkable is the way the
dialogues are woven together as if by the
thinnest of electric wires through which a
mysterious current flows uninterruptedly.
A word which we may have left unnoticed, or
the slightest fact, mentioned in one line, has
its significance 50 pages further on. One
has to go back to them to understand the
transformations of a soul in which these
germs, fallen there as if by chance, have de-
veloped in the dark. This is so true that if one
skips a few pages the rest become quite un-
intelligible. One feels angry with the
author for being so prolix, one runs on
ahead of him, and, all of a sudden, he is no
longer understood—the electric current has
been interrupted.... Grime and Punishment
never bores, but it tires one, as does a thor-
oughbred always on the prance ; add to this
the necessity of finding one’s way among a
crowd of cunning people who, like shadows,
glide about the background. All this com-
pels the reader’s closest attention, and to
have as good a memory as is required for
the study of a philosophic work. It is a
pleasure or an inconvenience, according to
the quality of the reader.
And, like this page in its recent review of
this author, de Vogtid finds that: —
These people never eat, they drink tea, and
only at night. Many are drunkards. They
seldom sleep, and, when they do, they dream.
There are more dreams in Dostoevsky’s
books than in all our standard works
put together. They nearly always have
fever. In every 20 pages we come
across the expression, “feverish state” at
least once, ... Of the innumerable people in-
vented by Dostoevsky I do not know one
whom Charcot, the famous alienist, could
not have claimed as his own under some
guise or other.... Dostoevsky is like a trav-
eller who has been all over the world, seen
everything, but has travelled only by night.
He is an incomparable psychologist, but only
as a student of dismal and mangled souls.
He is a clever dramatist, but only amongst
scenes of terror and compassion.
De Vogiid sums up Russia by the striking
metaphor that it is the spirit of an English
scientist in the soijl of a Buddhist.
Dostoevsky
There is one pleasant fact about Fyodor
Dostoevsky, you can spell his name as you
like. E. M. de Vogiid, in The Russian
Kovel, spells it Dostoyevsky; Constance Gar-
nett, in her translations of his works, terms
the author Dostoevsky ; and C. J. Hogarth,
in his translation of Letters from the
Underworld, speaks of Fedor Dostoieffsky.
The pronunciation is Dostoydvsky, with the
“o” long in both cases and the “y” sound
strong, thus —Do-sto-ye-vsky.
The reader is solemnly warned, in read-
ing Letters from the Underworld and Other
Tales. (Dent’s Everyman’s Library, Is. 3d.
out here) to omit the section titled “The
Underworld.” In this the author states
that his hero presents himself add his views
on life, and purports to explain the causes
which have created his personality. He
talks about himself very wearisomely for
48 pages, and the self that he depicts, how-
ever brilliantly analysed, is a character
whose prolixity wearies the English reader.
Thus, this voluntary denison of the under-
world finds pleasure in toothache. He ex-
plains in four pages that the groans of a
person with toothache express the sufferer’s
delight. For if he found no pleasure in
them he would not groan. Apparently it
never occurs to the sufferer to suppress his
groans, or to go to a dentist.
“Apropos of the Falling Sleet” leads us
into more interesting country. Here we
have the story of a night of dissipation
told with an extraordinary realism, in tfie
course of which the hero —though one doubts
whether Dostoevsky would apply that term
to his chief character—finds his way, in
pursuit of revenge on an officer who has
insulted him, to a brothel. He passes the
night there, and, shamed and angered with
himself, he finds a devilish way to recover
his self-respect. With deliberate malignity
he stirs in the soul of the poor girl her
suppressed longings for a better life; but
when his words have worked on her so
that she attempts to escape from her life,
and she shows him that she sincerely loves
her deliverer, he cruelly insults her, and
confesses that he had been merely experi-
menting on her soul. The character of this
girl is one of the most pathetic figures in
literature.
J*
“The Gentle Maiden” is a remarkable
achievement. Dostoevsky explains his
method.
Imagine a man by whose side, on a table,
there lies the dead body of his Wife. Though
some hours have elapsed since she hurled
herself from a window the man is still so
distracted with the shock that he cannot
collect his thoughts. He passes from room
to room of the house, and endeavors vainly
to realise what has happened and to rally
his faculties. He is an inveterate hypo-
chondriac —the kind of man who is for
ever talking of himself; and this he is now
doing, as he recounts the history of the
affair and tries to devise some explanation
for it. As for consecutiveness of speech, he
only contradicts himself, both in logic and
sentiment. The one moment he is trying to
justify himself and to lay the blame on her,
and the next moment he is launching out
into a string of extraneous reasonings.. Grief
and profound agitation have possession of
him. Yet by degrees he begins to under-
stand better, and to focus his thoughts. The
flood of recollections irresistibly aroused in
him at last leads to the truth: and that
truth ends by uplifting him in soul and in
spirit. Indeed, towards the close of the
story the whole tone of his soliloquy differs
from his disorderly beginning, for there has
dawned upon the unfortunate man the
reality of things—or what he conceives to
be such.
And Dostoevsky unravels the story of a
pitiable tragedy, in which it was life that
was to blame, from its stark beginning, “So
there she lies —beautiful, as always!” to its
noble ending:—
Everything is dead, and dead men are
everywhere. Only human beings are here,
and over them there broods a silence. That
is the world. “Men, love one another.”
Who said that? Whose command was it?
The pendulum continues beating insen-
sibly, malignantly. It is two o’clock in
the morning. Her little boots stand there
by the bed, as though awaiting her. Ah,
but, in very truth, when they take her away
to-morrow, what will become of me?
But for Dostoevsky at his highest, for
the supreme quality of romance, for pathos,
mystery, adventure and terror, you must
read “The Landlady.” This story is one of
the most remarkable ever written. It is a
romance that for tenseness of interest
easily outbids the sensation-monger, yet the
characterisation is so realistic that the
melodrama of the story becomes immedi-
ately credible. And the character of the
heroine is a triumph not only of psychology,
but, as so often with this author, of patheo-
logy. And the reader closes the book in a
mental impasse. The whole structure of the
story has been deftly shattered, and the
reader is left vainly wondering whether the
heroine was not the villain in disguise. It
is a tour de force that has no rival in Eng-
lish literature. This volume is cheap and
accessible. The Australian reader, hitherto
ignorant of the work of this genius, has here
a lavish feast.
' «**
While The Brothers Karamazov occupied
over 800 pages of close type, The Idiot and
The Possessed stretch a mere 600 pages.
Though Constance Garnett’s translation of
the The Possessed (Heinemann, per Dy-
mock’s Library) is masterly, the book re-
quires an effort for digestion. It is as
formless, as inarticulate, as any of Dos-
toevsky’s long novels ; and its characters, as
usual, range through the whole gamut of
insanity, from its hero, who is merely “pos-
sessed,” and Lizaveta, who is merely in a
continual state of overmastering excitement,
to the pathetic and harmless mental dulness
of Marya, the gentle and lovable foolishness
of Stepan, the mystical sanity of Kirillov,
and the madness of the Nihilists. The value
of the novel to the foreign reader lies in its
elucidation of the springs of Nihilistic
action. , The plot centres in a Nihilist group
in a provincial town. The psychology of
every member of that group is analysed
with a knowledge subtle, merciless and
astoundingly exact; while the ramifications
of the organism and its methods of govern-
ment are set forth with the authority of one
to whom Nihilism was an inevitable com-
monplace of Russian civilisation.
It is impossible to detail the plot, so vast
and so vague does it appear, and so many
are the subsidiary characters upon which its
mechanism is dependent. The Possessed
obtains our interest solely by its brilliant
character sketches of Russian types—to us
abnormal types —and its many moments of
intense dramatic appeal. There are enough
adventures and thrilling situations in the
one chapter headed “A Busy Night” to keep
the English writer of sensational fiction
going for a decade. One scene may be in-
stanced to show how Dostoevsky can clutch
and keep his reader’s emotions. Pyotr, the
clever, callous organiser of the Nihilist
“quintet,” determines upon the murder of
one of the members of the society: it is
necessary not so much because that member
may become dangerous to himself, nor even
because Pyotr hates him, but because it is
advisable to bind the other members to-
gether in a “blood-bond” that will prevent
them from betraying the society. If all are
equally guilty of the murder, none will dare
to inform the police. But it is necessary to
put the authorities off the scent. And it is
here that Pyotr’s scheming becomes bril-
liant. He had long known that Kirillov
had meant to kill himself, simply because
that was the only way this man could prove
himself greater than God. But for a man
to kill himself thus casually seemed to
Pyotr a waste of good Nihilist material.
He manages to get hold of Kirillov, by giv-
ing him the money to return to Russia—
he wants to die in Russia —and in return
exacts a promise from Kirillov that he will
not commit suicide until Pyotr allows him,
and, also, that he will leave a paper behind
taking upon himself the blame for some
Nihilist outrage. Thus the police will be
misled and the Nihilists will be given time
to escape. Immediately after Shotov has
been brutally murdered Pyotr goes to Kiril-
lov and informs him that the time has come.
But Kirillov was a friend of the murdered
man; and Pyotr finds himself confronted
with the dangerous possibility that Kirillov
will not kill himself, or will not sign the
dictated confession of his responsibility for
the crime. This scene, in which Pyotr,
maddened at the delay in his plans, and
knowing that if he fails his own life will be
forfeit, uses every resource in his mind to
force Kirillov to consent, feeling that at any
moment Kirillov, who hates him, might first
turn his revolver on his tormentor, and yet
conscious that to shoot Kirillov would spoil
everything—this scene could be depicted in
its horrible realism and its heightening ten-
sion only by a master of the morbid like
Dostoevsky. And there are many other
scenes of a similar poignancy.
It is, too, his creation of characters like
Marya, the crippled mad girl, and Stepan,
the lovable, foolish man of letters, that
makes the genius of Dostoevsky unmistak-
able. It is curious to note that Tolstoy’s
last pilgrimage, when the thought of his
imminent end sent him out secretly travel-
ling through Russia, with no thought of
any destination but death, has been antici-
pated in this novel. Stepan, a gentle, child-
ish fool, goes forth to his pathetic death on
the highway in The Possessed; and Tolstoy
followed him. The Russian looks upon the
novel not as a work of art —which, indeed,
in Dostoevsky it seldom is—but as a new
and inspired chapter in the Russian Bible.
•
Once again. Every week some correspon-
dent pathetically asks this page where he
may obtain some book reviewed here. There
are certain places in every city where, on
inquiry, a customer may obtain boots; there
are other places where a customer may
obtain books. The latter are known as
bookshops. The proprietors of these book-
shops, the address of which can be obtained
from any directory, rather like selling books.
If they have not got the book asked for in
stock, they have been known to order it from
other kindly people known as book pub-
lishers. A bookseller’s perennial delight in
selling books has even led him to advertise
on this page, in the naive hope that people
who desire books might get into touch with
the person whose business it is to sell books.


Jw
ANTHONY HORDERNS' for Fashion &, Economy
ri
Ql
2150 /5 /6
PHYLLIS
• 6/6
’
/If
L 93 Bft)
u
1043
4776
1044
55/
*024
*/.
5 PORTS
Coats
i IN
Popular
Styles
Fashion and Economy go
hand in hand in the
Green Room at the New
Palace Emporium, where
the choicest creations of
the season are shown in
variety that will satisfy
the most exacting. Far
and away the best value
in the land is assured by
the influence of
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
Send for Winter Fashion
Book, post free on re-
quest. It will interest you.
Stylist) Winter Coats
Anthony
*
\j
full le
7 /a
1340
1083
Wu/I length
488
22/6
full
27/6
246
849
39 6
mtWh
H 34
37/6
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
No. 1043 — Fashionable Pure Silk Knitted Coat, smart fancy stitch, contrast designed
border at foot; Tan, Saxe, Putty, Vieux Rose, Grey, Sand or Black... 47/6
“The Phyllis.”—Knitted Wool Coat, smart five-eighth length, finished belt; in Brown,
Navy, Grey, Heather, Saxe, Black 16/6
No. 2150 Popular Novelty Sports Set, in knitted soft fleecy Wool, Coat, Cap and
Scarf; Saxe, Tan, Grey, Brown, Sand and Ivory 15/6
4 khnilar styles, “Davos,” in plain fleecy brushed W ool; Navy, Grey, Helio, Saxe, Tan, Cream 19/6
The Ellgadine, extra quality brushed Wool; in Brown, Champagne, Saxe, Royal, Navv,
Grey, Tangerine ' 27 /Q
No. 1044. — Very Smart Knitted Wool Coat, fancy stitch, firm, close make, deep round
Collar, Revers and Guffs relieved, border of knitted White and Self Wool, finished buttons to
tone ; in Navy, Grey, Brown and Self Black - - /
No. 1024. — Stylish Plain Stitch Knitted Wool Coat, smart effect, with contrast turn-
down Collar, Cuffs and border; Purple, Brown, Biscuit Royal, Mole and Saxe Coats, relieved
Black and White Wool revers, collars, etc 2 j j
No. L93. — Knitted Wool Golf Coat, turn-down Collar, finished belt at waist; in Navy.
Grey, Brown «/ll
No. 986.—A Durable Reversible Tweed Coat, full length, straight-cut back, plain
Coat Sleeve, cross-over effect, in warm shades, Heather, Light and Dark Grey 22/0
No. 1340. Smartly-cut Coat Of Navy Cheviot Serge, full length, plain Black, inset Sleeves
with gauntlet Cuffs, new Collar, fastening high at neck, fancy cross-over effect, outlined pipings
of Black Silk 27/0
No. 849. Dressy Cull-leilgth Coat, Of Black Vicuna Cloth, smartly-cut back, with inverted
lapped seams, double Collar effect, and long revers, trimmed Black Silk Braid Embroidery 39/O
Similar design, No. 3002, plain Black Cloth Coat, slightly less Braiding 37/0
No. 1083. — Stylish Black Vicuna Cloth Coat, seven-eighth length, new panel back, with
wide lapped seams, round Collar, and revers of Self, finished pipings of Black Silk, and
Embroidered Silk Arrow Heads, fastening with elaborate Silk Frog 24/0
Similar style, No. 764, Black Cloth Coat, seven-eighth length, double Collar, edged wide and narrow
Silk Braid gtj jq
No. 1134. Warm Winter Coat, Of soft diagonal striped Homespun Tweed, full length,
fashionable high waist effect at back: Collar, fancy revers and Cuffs with inlet of cloth in
tone, finished tabs and buttons; Rose, Tan, Saxe, Brown and Grey shades 37/0
TANGO
ROKDeAU
N
* w
1
M
@
S-«
sU «
II
nr
A
minuet
BARCAROLLE
VENZI
«O.EIN
NEW DESIGNS ,
JorMfllDS&CfllLDREN tj
Low Prices. ]
Fifteen
Shillings
expended
at
the
New
Palace
Emporium
will
go
further
than a
Sovereign
spent
at
any
other
Store.
Becoming’ Designs
for Misses Si iSmo// women
' ~ %
Horderns’
The Rondeau.—Coat and Skirt Costume, in heavy Cheviot Serge, Navy; tailored and
designed exclusively for small Ladies’ figures and Maids from 16 to 19 years
™ Sizes — 9 > 26/6; 8, 25/6; 7, 24/11- 6, 24/6
Tango. Maid’s Coat and Skirt Costume, in Check Donegal Tweed, smartly
tailored, introducing the new feature in this season’s designing; suitable for Maids from 17 to 19
y ear s, 8-lso for small Ladies* fissures — Sizes 9 30/6* 8 33/6
The Klein.- Coat and Skirt Costume, in Coating Serge, Navy; beautifully cut and’daintily
designed for Children from 4 to 14 years—
The Barcarolle.—Coat amf Skirt ctstuike!’
charmingly designed, expressly for College and School wear, fitting Girls from 14. to 19 years—
Sizes-—9, 24/6" 8, 24/6" 7 2“l/6- 0 '6
Costume, in fine Coating Serge, Navy; Collar facings of Blaek
years—-^ ltC Stnped Sl k ’ ex( l ulslte ly modelled, for small Ladies’ figures, and Maids from 16 to 19
Minuet.—Coat and Skirt Costume, in heavy Cheviot Serge, Navy ; modelled for^little
folk, especially suited for school wear; to fit Child from 4 to 14 years—
Sizes— 2, 21/6; 3, 22/6; 4, 22/6; 5, 22/11; 6, 22/11
IsIAPA- MALVERCi „,MALA. MINATO.. GWYN. SELVA.
The Nada.—Children’s Stylish Little Middy Costumes, m pretty Tweeds of soft Groy,
Amazon Cloth, colors Vieux Rose and Saxe —
Sizes. 26in. 27in. 30in. 33in. 36in. 39in.
Tweed 14/6 14/6 14/11 14/11 15/6 15/6
Cloth 14/6 14/6 14/11 15/6 15/11 15/11
The Malvern. Maid’s Coat and Skirt Costume, in fine French Navy Serge, lapels and
belt of Self material, Skirt is four-piece, suitable for small Ladies’ figures and Maids from 16 to
19 years— s Sizes—9, 47/6; 8, 46/6; 7, 45/6
The Mala.—Children’s Woollen Coat, of high-grade Wool. Colors: Vieux Rose, Cinnamon,
Grey and Cream, to fit child from 1 to 12 years. Sizes —18in., 8/11; 20in., 9/11; 22in.,
10/6; 24in„ 10/11; 27in„ 11/6; 30in., 12/11; 33in., 13/11.
'The MinatO. Maid’s Coat and Skirt Costume, in Flake Diagonal Tweed, semi-fitting,
cut-away Coat with Collar of Black Corded Silk, Skirt is four-piece, ornamented with beautiful
large buttons, for small Ladies’ figures and Maids from 17 to 19 years—
Sizes—9, 42/11; 8, 42/6
The Gwyn.—Children’s Hand-knitted Woollen Combination Frock, with Bloomers
and Quaker Bonnet attached. Colors: Vieux Rose, Saxe, Cinnamon and Cream, fitting child from
1 to 7 years—
irr . a 1 Siz ' s 17 , l?/ 1 *? 1911 ; 2 ’ 21/6; 3 > 22/6; 4, 24/6.- 5, 25/6
xilG S W OOIIGII Cofit, Of fine-quality Wool. Colors : Red, Grey, Cinnamon
and Cream, fit child from 1 to 8 years—
Sizes 16in., 6/11; 18in., 7/11; 20in., 8/11; 22in., 9/6; 24in., 10/6; 36in., 10/11
ANTHONY HORE*ERN & SONS Ltd
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,


mimm
m
Loaded Shotgun Cartridges.
"New Rival”
No black powder cartridges have so many strong
points to recommend them as Winchester “New
Rival.” Their uniform shooting qualities are due to
the fact that the shells are made of high-class,
tested materials, and loaded with the best brands
of powder, shot and wadding. The patented
corrugated head, and the solid, gas-tight, fire-
proof base construction used in Winchester
cartridges, coupled with a system o.
loading which gives invariable results, pro- y
duces a quality that is unsurpassed.
Insist Upon Having Winchester, The
W Brand . Sold The World Over .
%
vs
m
<
m
&
A Better Anvil for
Money.
'McJ 7
In - 7. I.
r
"'lO
■V*
»»• ,,r r
• r
n
t&
IM'U
IAK I
'fffl
Buy an “All Steel” Anvil
cu T^ ey A?, forged from one Solid Piece of
Steel—All One Piece—and the patent hardening
and tempering process makes it impossible for
any part to crack and fall off.
«• ll M e I th< i 1 ordinary two or three piece
built-up Anvil, which lias horn and tail welded
to the body, to crack and fall any time.
Not like the “built-up” Anvil, the face of
which is laid on separately, and often cracks
and sinks.
a the superior “ALL STEEL”
Sf i .' u 1L will cost you less than the inferior
built-up ’ kind.
4cwt. to 2211 b.
2201 b. to 1601 b.
1051 b. to 891 b.
881 b. to 671 b.
661 b. to 221 b.
221 b. to 141 b.
.. 32/- cwt.
34/-cwt.
36/- cw r t.
•• 514 <3. lb.
• • 6d. lb.
• • Bd. lb.
The Victorian Railways Workshops at Newport
have 7 Tons of “ALL STEEL” ANVILS in use.
Do you want this
Book Post Free?
Not a big one—-only 4S passes; but it’s full of
valuable information about the latest Tools and
Mac-limes for the Blacksmith’s and Coach-
lmilders Shop.
Everything priced—from Anvil Tools to
lover Hammers from Spoke Pointers to Buzz
1 laners—and they’re all High in Quality, but
not in Price. Ask for the Smithy Book from
AJSJPhersoiTI)
r Proprietary Ltd.
Machinery and Tool Merchants,
554-66 8 582-88 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
rm
st
vSvfK
DON’T FORGET
B.S.A.
with its fine Record of Successes
when contemplating the purchase of a new
machine. There s none to equal a B.S.A.
for reliability because there’s not another
bicycle made with such extreme care, or
undergoes such stringent testing and gauging
as B.S.A. Fittings.
You must remember that if you took a hundred machines
huilt of B.S.A. Fittings to pie.es and mixed them up,
you would have no diff.culty in rebuilding, because
every B.S.A. Part is so perfectly interchangeable.
Write for B.S.A. Handbook.
D. Y. RENNIE (Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE. ;|
LOOK FOB
THIS MARK
WHEN YOU
BUY A
BICYCLE.
trademarks
A
B.S.A.
B.S A.
SPARE
Parts
OBTAINABLE
EVERY-
WHERE
IN
AUSTRALIA.
Ride a Bicycle
Built of Genuine
h
Fittings
Cheapest
in the end
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY HORPCRN SONS LTP.
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSONS
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you'll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
tin now. 1/6, posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist.
__2] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane,
Iriischen
( Salts
Now sold by Chemists throughout tne Commonwealth.
Wholesale Importers:
H. & W. GREAR, 237, Irenes Street, SYDNEY
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS,
fox- SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRADE MARK
SPLENDID S.B.B.L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra long range.
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/6. D.B.B.L. GUN, fitted with
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified steel barrels,
r? ?L S °, c , k ’r , pis °n ■ grip ' GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN EXCELLENT
KILLER. Holiday Price, £3/10/- D.B.B.L. GUN, choke and modified steel
burrcL Government Tested TI r E FARMER’S FRIEND. Special Price,
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 22 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice and
wea P° n - THE YOUTH’S FAVORITE. Holidav
.CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent ejector. Takes 22
Jong, .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best sellers. Holiday
nee, IJs/O, Write for Our Catalogue.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Largest Importers of Arms and Ammunition in the Commonwealth
242-4 EOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
One of the best known and most highly
respected residents of Hunter’s Hill,
Sydney, N.S.W., writes of his
complete recovery which
can be easily verified.
Mr. MICHAEL O DONNELL is one of the oldest identities
ot this charming Sydney suburb where he has taken an active
interest in its social and commercial advancement. He writes of
the wonders of Clements Tonic, 25/8/13. Hundreds of Hunter’s
Hill residents know how ill Mr. O’Donnell has been, and how
great a reason he has to be thankful for having had this medicine
recommended to him. jA Read his remarkable letter.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
Years ago I became completely debilitated, and for six months I was
unable to follow my occupation. My nerves were in such a state that sleep
was almost impossible. My appetite had left me, I lost weight rapidly,
getting as low as 10 stone. I WAS JUST ABOUT AS BAD BODILY
AND MENTALLY AS IT WAS POSSIBLE TO BE.
I had medical advice, but derived no benefit from the medicine
prescribed, and began to lose hope of ever being my old self again.
Hearing of the wonders of Clements Tonic in similar cases, I
purchased some, and after taking it for a time I began to notice a beneficial
result. My appetite improved, and the nerves, becoming soothed, allowed
me to have my natural sleep. I BEGAN TO LOOK SO WELL
THAT PEOPLE SEEING ME ASKED WHAT MEDICINE I
WAS TAKING. I kept on with the Tonic till I fully recovered, and
I am now in the best of health, weighing 12st. 41b. I HAVE CLEM-
ENTS TONIC TO THANK FOR MY CURE. I have great
faith in it.
Living in Hunter s Hill all my life, and being well known, this
statement can be vouched for, as nearly everyone knew how bad in health
1 was. You may use this as you think fit.”
(SIGN D) G.jfrOnfiJC
This letter goes to prove the wonderful strength-giving value
of this spleud d medicine, Clements Tonic which is undoubt-
edly the herald of health, and rel eves Lassitude, Sick
Headache, Loss of Vitality. Loss of Apnetite, Poor Blood, Low
Spirits, and Melancholia quicklv. All homes should keep it.
ALL CHEMIS.S AND STORKS SELL XT EVERYWHERE.
Send for it. It lengthens and sweetens life.


DON'T NEGLECT
I YOUR HAIR
I. Your looks demand that you
should take care of it, make
it more beautiful, more lus-
trous, softer ; you can easily
and readily do so by using
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR
OIL
which nourishes, strengthens,
nurtures, and promotes the
growth of Fine Silky Hair;
you will notice an improve-
ment from the first time you
use it. Use it for your own
and your Children’s Hair;
Golden Colour for Fair Hair.
Sold in three sizes by Stores,
Chemists, and Rowland’s,
67, Hatton Garden, London.
Avoid cheap imitations under
the same or similar name. I
WORLD'S CYCLE RECORD
Est. as y rs.
M. Planes on a 7 year old British-made All-
Steel Mead Modele Superbe
* COVENTRY FLYER *
Rode 34,366 Mil' 3 in 365 Days
(officially authenticated . Beat over 650 com-
petitors on up-to-date cycles.
MEAD CYCLES STAND THE TEST.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Dunlop Tyres, Variable-Speed Gears, etc.
Latest
Models
£3-10 to £9
Direct from factory, Packed Free, Carrfage
Paid to your port. Ten Days’ Free trial.
Motor .Cycles and Cycle-Cars at Factory
I rices: Write for Free Art Catalogue,
and Marvellous Otiers. Agents Wanted\
QV3W
CYCLE COMPANY,
(Sept. A 282 ), LIVERPOOL)
AGENT for MEAD
VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade,
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND.
CYCLES-
Melbourne.
ALL MODELS
LETTERS COPIED WHILE WRITING
(in ink) by using your own Letter-paper
with this Book. You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing you
secure a perfect letter and a
perfect copy. There is no
sign of copying. 400 octavo Bin. x sin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/200 Book, size 10$ x
8;;, post free. 4/6 ; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Bin. x sin., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetie Ink Paper which
produces this result, free if stamped-addressed
envelope sent t 6 5..8. Zanetie, Leicester, England.
Zanetie goods obtainable from Sands & McDougall,
Ltd., Collins Street West, Melbourne, and Branches
at Adelaide and Perth.
gfh
gh
ELEY
CARTRIDGE CASES
were used in both barrels by
Signor Federigo Fadini
AND
Signor Leonetto Semana
who won the
l 8 PRIZES
respectively in the
GRAND
PRIX
DU CASINO
AT
MONTE CARLO
February 12th
1914
A double rise, 4,400 francs was
won outright on the same day by
Signor Rossini
who used ELEY Cartridge
Cases in both barrels
ELEY Cartridge Cases give
best results with ALL powders
ELEY BROS. LTD.
LONDON.
Agent: ALBERT ADAMS
420 George Street,
SYDNEY, NS W.
CARBIDE
First-Class
Results use
Best
MT“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
it can be obtained.
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents’for Australia.
Borming'ton’s
Jubes
For the VOICE * *
THROAT CSL LUNGS
Possess many of the unique and valuable curative properties of Bonnington’s Irish Moss.
Ihey affordimmediaterelief in case of Sore or Relaxed Throat, Loss of Voice, Iluskiness,
Spasmodic Cough, Bronchial Trouble etc. Whilst soothing and antiseptic in their action,
these Jubes are entirely free from all poisonous or other harmful substances.
90.
*3
CM*
7*6
9*.
vS-
&
A PLEASANT AND EFFECTIVE COUCH PASTILLE
SUITABLE FOR BOTH ADULTS AND CHILDREN
BONNINGTON’S JUBES are highly recom-
mended for use by Public Speakers and
Singers. The Travelling Public will also find
them the best and most convenient Throat
Pastille. SOLD EVERYWHERE
Price, 1/3 per tin
If not obtainable locally, send price in
stamps to
Bonnington & Co., Ltd.
179 HARRIS STREET - - SYDNEY
CURED
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Send 2d. stamp for FREE
SAMPLE and . full particulars, or, if you desire to commence treatment
without delay, send 10/6 for supply.
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., Dept B. 2011, Pitt Street Sydney.
V,
*W V 1
Would You
THIN WOMEN!
Like a Well Developed
and Well Proportioned
FIGURE?
ANY WOMAN without full bust development lacks the one essential
that creates a perfect appearance. Lack of proper bust development, hollow
cheeks and “salt-cellars” quickly take from a woman the bloom and fresh-
ness of healthy womanhood. Misfortune may have been your lot in so tal-
as natural development is concerned, but science has found a way to correct
your deficiency, liven though you have never been full-bosomed, and have
been attenuated all your life, if you suffer from no wasting disease, your
bosom can be fully developed and your**weight increased to normal....
There are to-day hundreds of women who were once thin, flat-bosomed,
hollow-cheeked and generally scraggly in appearance, and suffering the effects of
anirmia and defective digestion, who are now for the first time in their lives
healthy, full-bosomed and pink-cheeked, and enjoying the full vigor of robust
womanhood, as the result of a few weeks under our wonderful
DR. FALLIERE’S FLESH-FOOD.
Flesh-Food is totally harmless in every respect. Its efficacy isr beyond question, and its use >s
no demand upon the subject’s time. Many cases have gained up to six pounds a week, and an
increase in bust measurement up to eight or ten inches is possible. Flesh-Food offers relief
and development to the thousands of chronically thin women who have despaired of ever possessing
a presentable figure. It is a nerve and tissue food-treatment that adds weight and permanent
development to attenuated women. Guarantee given in every case accepted.
WE HAVE HUNDREDS OF LETTERS DIKE THIS:
Manager “Flesh-Food” Co.. Cympie Queensland, May 5, 1913.
Dear Sir, —As a nurse, I was very interested in your Fle3h-Food treatment, and was greatly
surprised at the wonderful results in my case. When I first wrote to you I was only skin and
bone, and I have good cause to be thankful that I wrote you for a free sample, for I feel certain
now that I am one of the very best advertisements you could possibly have, as I am developed in
every way satisfactory to myself, and I have waited a good while to prove if it was lasting in
its effect, and I am now glad to say that your splendid treatment has done absolutely all you
claimed it would, my weight and measurements being ample.—I atn, yours gratefully,
Mrs. E. Wingrove.
Let us Send
You a Free
Sample.
TRIAL SAMPLE
We publish an interesting book on the
subject of attenuation and development.
and will send same and a Free Sample Treatment to you FREE OF CHARGE
upon receipt of a 2d, stan;p to pay part postage. All communications are
treated as strictly confidential. Call if convenient. 1817
l ALLlKliK FI.B8H-FOOD CO.. 1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
THE CAN-MAKING INDUSTRY!
SANITARY—SIMPLE
EFFECTIVE—RAPID.
The Entire Top Open.
x . £Z3E>i
<r2S*SW-.
U
£
m
ENTERPRISING PRESERVE CANNERS ill every part of the world
have come to realise that the old, slow, unsanitary method- of
manufacturing and scaling cans by hand with poisonous solders is ob-
solete.
That is why the MAX AMS SANITARY CANNING MACHINERY
is being used by the world’s leading canners. If you are using cans
lor packing preserves, fruits, vegetables, or in fact any food product, the
SANK ARY, SOLDERLESS, HERMETICALLY SEALED CANS
made by these machines will save you time, money aad labor.
No. 58 and No. 68 Automatic Double Seamers will seal can tops on
bodies ljin. high and 2in. in diameter up to 1 gallon and over. The
scope in the range of possible cu.ngcs is instantly appreciated.
No adjusting or fussing, or mechanical skill required. Can be run
by boy or girl.
These machines are J$Y NO MEANS confined to any PARTICULAR
CLASS-of cans. The operation of these Seamers is SIMPLE. The
cans are automatically conveyed to the baseplate with the cover, and
INSTANTLY the CAN engages the rollers, making a CLEAN and tight
DOUBLE SEAM.
We Furnish Complete Outfit for Making These Cans.
For full particulars write to the
MAX AMS MACHINE CO.
MT. VERNON, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
OR THROUGH ANY EXPORT COMMISSION HOUSE
Tobacco
Kills!
a
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a free Sample, also our Book-
let. “ The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR (Sb CO.,
Dept. Q.
107 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY. [4.
PAGES FOE EVE GY WO MAN is a-Vea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE 10 WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can vou ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT, and SECURITY.
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children.
LESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st , Melbourne,
Vic.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austra-
l.asian, Od. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room'at the offices. 115 High ITol-
born, London. W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use, the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hurrying Feet.
Where are you going to, hurrying feet,’
Mistily seen through the prisms above,
Roof to my chamber and floor to the street.
Lighting the dull, dismal room that I love V
Here I have labored and plotted and
dreamed—
Fool that I was to have labored at all!
Always I’ll hear that cold laugh, that she
deemed
Suitable answer, last night at the ball.
Is it some vain, foolish hope that has stirr’d
you,
Making you hasten with heart on.the beat?
Hasten to tell her, and when she has heard
you—
How she will laugh at you, hurrying feet!
Into the country or down to the ocean,
P’r’aps you are hurrying, there to be free;
Loving the long, winding road with devotion,
Rivalled alone by your love for the sea.
If in the ships that go out with the tide,
Out where the sea and the sky seem to
meet,
You should be seeking your sorrow to hide —
Wait for me! Wait for me! Hurrying
feet!
VICTORIA.
SPASM.
An Idyll of Bulls and Wings.
The bull the simple farmer keeps
Together with his ducks and hens,
The tilted tails of chirping wrens,
The sun that through green branches
creeps—
All these, if time should suit, are rife
With influence on human life.
Sages have noticed that the swine
Who love in fatted ease to lie,
Close sheltered in their straw-set sty.
May wield an influence divine.
The subjects of my truthful pen
Are one large bull and one small wren.
The little bird was crowned with blue,
The summer airs were warm and pale,
Three inches of a flirting tail
Fanned the soft leaves that greenly grew
Above the simple man and maid
Who spoke of love within the shade.
It happened that I was the man,
And she the girl' whose hair was such
It waved and glistened at the touch
Of little lights that leaped and ran
From the blown branches of the tree
To scatter gold on her and me.
Her eyes were quite as black as night,
Her lips were quite as red as sin,
Her waist was barbed with one sharp pin
That interrupted my delight
To tear some inches of my wrist
That first sweet moment that we kist.
Another barb was at her neck,
A simple jewel set with red,
Placed as the guardian of her head
To hold that daring wight in check
Whose boldness might aspire to win
The laughing dimple on her chin.
I do not think that girls should wear
More spines than deck the porcupine:
Yet this dear maid whose lips were mine
Was such a tonic to dull care,
Death adders’ bites had scarce restrained
My rapture till her mouth was gained.
Whether the blue wren called the bull
Or fate appointed what occurred,
I do not know. The bushes stirred.
And all the summer air was full
Of horns and eyes and lifted tail,
And screams, and one sweet girl grown pale.
The bull was somewhat out of breath,
The fence was half a mile away;
But neither of us cared to stay
To meet the kind of sudden death
That, judging by his noise and fuss,
The creature wished to hand to us.
The girl was quickest up the tree —
Her screams appeared to lend her wings ;
By various leaps and bounds and springs
She scrambled up ahead of me,
And perched upon a little bough
Above the uncle of the cow.
I followed her in eager haste
Because the girl was very dear,
And that bull’s horns were all so near
That, when I clasped her fluttered waist.
I breathed a sigh of great relief
To miss that mass of angry beef.
The girl was very much annoyed.
Her frock was torn beyond repair,
And portions of her blackest hair,
Which I had lately much enjoyed.
Were fallen in a glossy coil
Upon the bull-encumbered soil.
We seemed and felt and looked absurd.
Perched in the whiskers of a tree.
That tearful damsel clung to me
The while a small blue-headed bird.
With daring flight and courage cool,
Fluttered between us and the bull.
The view we had was excellent.
When sunset filled the skies with flame
The long, brown shadows, sleek and tame
A charm to all the landscape lent:
And when the stars began to peep
The purple skies were soft and deep.
The bull decided to remain.
And that is why. when days are bright
And maiden’s lips and eyes delight,
I always take an aeroplane;
And. soaring far from beef and men.
Flit through the sunshine like a wren.
When clouds are soft and young and few,
And skies are empty, wide and fair,
I love the hornless depths of air
And happy sweeps of bull-less blue,
For roosting on that midnight bough
.Taught, me to hate, the .race .of Cow. .
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


CIGARETTES.
QT The SARONY is a favorite with those who like a good
II cigarette. The SARONY stands unrivalled—unex-
celled in workmanship—unvarying in flavor and
quality.
May be had in either Turkish or Virginia.
ALL LEADING TOBACCONISTS.
Manufactured by
NICOLAS SARONY 8 CO., New Bond Street, London, W.
A
•j' i ■ i iiyiQog
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per (lay, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
“Lister-Bruston”
Automatic
Electric
Lighting
Plant
fg
WHAT ARE YOU DOING FOR LIGHT
IN Y UR HOTEL THIS WINTER?
Are you going to keep on with the old-
fashioned, unhealthy and expensive
methods, or will YOUR Hotel be splen-
didly and economically lit with Elec-
tricity ?
This Plant (as illustrated complete) gen-
erates Electricity automatically. The
Engine and Dynamo start themselves as
soon as the lights are switched on. No
costly battery is needed —the lights are
lit direct from the Dynamo.
The Plant is , self-contained—not fixed
to the floor, and thus, as a ten-
ant’s fixture, can be
moved from place
to place. It is low
in cost and deliv-
ered practically
ready for connect-
ing up to the Hotel
Wiring.
May we talk it over
in your office or
write to you about
it?
AGENTS: N.S.W.—W. Q. WATSON & CO., LTD., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
VIC.—SUTHERLAND & ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—CLUTTER BUCK BROS., Adelaide.
h
Bo You Long for a Full Moustache?
Why not do more
than wish for one?
USE
CAPILLARINE.
Then you can develop a full hair growth on your upper lip in a very short
time. This splendid preparation is not a quack, but a proved moustache
grower. Does not cause soreness —cannot be detected. Hundreds have proved its
merit —why not you ?
SEND FOR A JAR TO-DAY —10/6 post free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/0, 5/6 each Post Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG <a AIT KEN
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
6 Of)
Q *ewe?
HOLSTEN
LAGER
Possesses distinctive qualities—it
is a delightfully refreshing, in-
vigorating and nourishing Lager
—valuable as a food for Nursing
Mothers, Invalids, etc—apart from
its high-grade merit as a light
beverage.
OBTAINABLE at all FIRST-CLASS
CLUBS, HOTELS, RESTAURANTS,
etc.
as
Ladies’
“Raglan.”
The
“Raglan.
The
“Derby. ’’
Macintoshes.
We are now showing a magnificent range
of new season’s waterproofs for Men
and Women.
Every coat is perfectly tailored in our
own workrooms from materials that are
noted for style and wear.
MEN’S.
“D
G Range: Fawn, Brown,
Grey, Olive and Blue Black
shades, check lined ....
H Range: Plain Fawn, Slate,
Grey, Olive in various new
effects, check lined
WOMEN’S
LE Range: Blue, Brown
and Green, single tex-
ture, ruhber-proofed ma-
terials •
LG: Plain Olive and Fawn
erby.” “Raglan.”
35/- 37/6
42/- 45/-
25 /-
35/- .
WE PAY CARRIAGE ON MACINTOSHES.
Our New, Illustrated List is now ready.
Post Free on request.
Macintoshes quoted above are Guaranteed
Australia bv
Please send for a copy; it is sure to interest you.
Absolutely Waterproof, and are manufactured in
0
RUBBER CO. LTD.,
270 George Street, Sydney.
Also Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
IN HALF THE TIME
HAVE YOU EVER TRIED
SHI - NOLEUM ?
TF YOU HAVE NOT, order a tin
A from your Storekeeper to-day—
you will find that it will enable you to
polish your Linoleums and Furniture
in half the usual time —the shine lasts
for weeks —and your Linoleum for
— years.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
oOlaatH.
%
m
4
€
The Chinese use this Symbol to Express Completeness.
The perfect balance—the unbroken circle —these denote unity. The symbol stands
for something that is absolutely self-contained and complete.
Or, to put it briefly, the
GAILLE PERFECTION ENGINES.
8 H.P. Unit Plant.
Single-Cylinder “ Perfection ’
with Igniter and Plug Cover
6.’>aaM
*/.*v
. •
m
's's'&B
ilia
m7s
>v
'
mi
&M&
i-
te*....;
'
, ;•
IES
Ssi&?
Photograph of Actual Test.
This shows that the “Perfection" igniter is abso-
lutelv waterproof. We challenge any engine manu-
facturer in the world to produce an engine with an
ignition system that will stand a similar test.
Every part of ignition system was submerged in water
and engine continued to run and showed the same
power and speed as when running perfectly dry, thus
proving our claim —AN ABSOLLTEIA MATEIt-
PROOE IGNITION SYSTEM.
“Perfection” Special Gasoline and Kerosene Engines are the greatest value ever placed on the
MARINE ENGINES, suitable for Canoes, Tenders and Fishermen.
WATERPROOF IGNITION SYSTEM.
NO COILS, NO BATTERIES, NO TIMER, NO DANGER OF YOUR ENGINE
STOPPING IF CAUGHT IN A STORM, as the IGNITION SYSTEM
cannot be touched by water.
CAILLE PERFECTION ENGINES
are the height of simplicity. Any member of the family can run them. All parts are completely
enclosed, except the fly-wheel. No oil can splash out —no water can splash in.
We are the Sole Agents, and carry these engines in stock, so just step in and see one working.
We will be glad to see you.
BENSON BROTHERS, LIMITED
(CITY 4143),
51-53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY. 69 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vot. 35. Ko. 178 G.
I II U USD AV, MAY 7, 1914.
Pities Bd.
THE FAST LIFE.
THE VICTIM IN ANY CASE: “Huh! It would be a terrible pity to put a brake on this terrific
pace by stopping to try a change of horses!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: { gjj f 3 f o \
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
£1 6s. fid. per Annum, including Special
Christmas Number, post paid.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty -
Six Shillings and Sixpence Sterling you can have
The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to he addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) hy taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case he addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone hy name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused hy addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous t or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
out' unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e. } any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.- — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at
k!6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6'fin.
x Hin., and gelatine transparencies will be for-
warded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired.
Postage Kates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—Throughout the Commonwealth. New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 160 z., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.. Bsoz.
to lOoz., 21d.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, f/oz.,
Id., and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MAY 7, 1914.
THE LOST CITY THAT WAS NEVER
FOUND.
Last week the Australian capital city of
Canberra got one more burst of public appro-
bation when the papers mentioned that a
second outbreak of diphtheria had occurred
at the Duntroon Military College. It was
so bad that out of 120 cadets no less than
40 were under suspicion on the day when
the news was published. Diphtheria is one
of the diseases which arise through bad
water and insanitary circumstances, and its
recurrence at the unbuilt Federal city, de-
spite abundance of fresh air and a complete
lack of overcrowding, isn’t the sort of pub-
licity that the house-and-land shark craves
after. The unconstructed city of ’Berra has
no luck worth mentioning. It is shown by
the meteorological records that if the whole
coast-line and the whole table-land behind
the coast-line are searched from the Gulf
of Carpentaria round to Melbourne, Can-
berra is the centre of the driest area. It
lies in a sort of depression, and the rain
clouds are deviated by the configuration of
the ground. Queanbeyan to the east, Yass
to the west, and Cooma to the south are all
places with a dismal narrative of scant
moisture. The news that comes from these
localities is mostly depressing. It is largely
to the effect that the Cotter has become a
chain of waterholes, that the Molonglo has
ceased running, that the Murrumbidgee is
very low (a recent report was to the effect
that it almost promised to cease running),
that water is scarce at Yass, that it is
scarcer at Queanbeyan, that there is diph-
theria at Duntroon Military College, and
that the Government employees have struck
by reason of lack of drinkable material and
the abundance of dead rabbits in what drink-
able material there is. Even the handful of
men who were employed doing a few pre-
liminary jobs about the unborn Babylon
declared that the water supply wasn’t large
enough for them, and that the defunct
bunny was “over the odds.”
The Canberra capital began with a sort
of moral curse upon it. It is the City of
Lies and Dirt. It had its genesis in the
act of treachery by which the N.S.W. Legis-
lature, at the instance of “Jawbone” Nield,
and with the countenance of George lleid,
broke its agreement with the other States,
and annulled the vote by which N.S.W.
accepted the first Federal Constitution. Out
of that unclean deed came the concession
that every State except N.S.W. was to be
disqualified as a possible site for the Aus-
tralian capital. After that, the representa-
tives of the other States lost interest in
the capital site question, and the choice was
left, in a great measure, to the N.S.W. re-
presentatives. And they, being almost en-
tirely Sydney men, and dominated by the
Sydney daily papers and the Sydney Con-
gestion interest, presently settled down to
one steady purpose. The metropolis was to
be the sort of place that couldn’t possibly
rival Sydney. At the same time it was
to be as near that city as the Constitution
allowed, so that the bottle-neck place could
secure its trade—what there might be of it.
The Dryberra capital was allowed a scrap
of land for a so-called port, the said scrap
stopping at high-water mark so that nothing
bigger than a canoe or coracle could possibly
get. near it. It was allowed a very narrow
right-of-way so that a very narrow line
might be built to connect the capital which
had the minimum of rain with the port that
ended on dry land. Even the Sydney Tele-
graph, which was the most furious advo-
cate of the ’Berra misery, tacitly admitted
that it recommended the site because of its
badness. The political centre of Australia,
it said, would never be more than a large
country town. Hughes, the most prominent
of the N.S.W. Laborites, and a man whose
interests are all in Sydney, was so anxious
on behalf of Canberra, the place that was to
be a mere mean suburb of the haunts of his
own Wharf-Laborers’ Union, that he even
turned dog on the sacred principle of the
referendum when it was proposed that it
should be applied in this particular instance.
His views for the moment about the mental
incapacity of the common herd were as
arrogant and unpublishable as those of (say)
Bruce Smith.
* * * *
All this petty meanness and parish-minded
jealousy constituted a bad beginning, and
the progress hasn’t been much better than
the commencement. From the day when
a N.S.W. Government, with the mind of a
police-court law shark, and the manners of
a bushranger, refused to go on with the
Federal movement which it had inaugurated
unless it was bribed with the possession of
the Federal capital, to the time when the
Canberra workmen struck on account of too
much dead rabbit in the water and the date
when the second diphtheria outbreak hap-
pened at Duntroon College, Canberra failed
to publish itself in a promising fashion.
Even the Sydney papers, which once clam-
ored that it was a paradise, hardly mention
it these days. Now and then, however,
they wake up and blame Prime Minister
Cook for not finding more money and hurry-
ing up the work of construction, and in that
occasional shindy lies their own condemna-
tion. The place is a pauper and a bad
debt. Money has to be found for it; it
doesn’t find money for itself. The one city
in the world, and in all history, which is
the political hub of a whole continent, and
which, in addition, represents the biggest ex-
periment up to date in the public ownership
of city lands, shouldn’t require to have all
its money found for it. It should be an
asset, not a liability. It should, with the
Federal prestige that it has and the natural
advantages that it ought to have, be a big
source of income. The Government ought
to be rushed by people desirous to plank
down £lO,OOO deposit on a 50-years’ lease of
a site whereon they could erect a smokeless
boot factory or something of the sort, worked
by the water-power that Canberra hasn’t
got. The official doormat ought to be worn
out by folk who desire to pay big rents for
wharf-sites, also sites for shops, houses,
warehouses, theatres and everything else im-
aginable. Unhappily the Treasury doesn’t
seem to be rilshed with a single copper.
When the Lord presented Canaan to the
people of Israel it is never implied that He
gave Israel a liability or an unpaid bill or
anything of the sort. Canaan is always
spoken of as a glorious benefit. And the
capital of a continent should be worth more
in cash than Canaan ever was, unless the
choice is something exceptional in the way
of badness. The spectacle of Moses en-
gaged in a bitter struggle to pay for the
Promised Land, instead of the Promised
Land paying for Moses, has an element of
humor about it.
Prime Minister Cook was an enthusiastic
Canberra-ite in the days when he didn’t know
any better. Now he is a tired atom trying
to carry a dead horse, and his applause has
greatly diminished. He has a proud insti-
tution on his hands that eats up pounds and
doesn’t return even pence. He knows per-
fectly well that his followers don’t want to
follow him to Canberra. The politician has
the same love as any other man for lights,
and theatres, and bustle, and hotels, and bar-
maids. and tree-lined boulevards, and the
other joys of existence. He doesn’t crave to
be marooned at a country town on a small
branch railway. He doesn’t yearn to vote
large sums in order to hurry up the time
when he will be dragged from the fleshpots
of Melbourne and sent to the bears and the
gum-trees. Meanwhile Sydney, in whose
supposed interests the Australian metropolis
was devised, hasn’t collected any dividends
up to date. If Canberra is the failure it
promises to be, its trade will do the big
Cornstalk town no good. If by any impos-
sible chance, it is a success, its traffic will
only make the railway congestion worse, and
the suburban tram more belated, and the
price of meat Id. per lb. more owing to the
further delay of the bullock era route.
The Bulletin had (and still has) visions
of a real Australian metropolis, of which the
people would be sole ground landlords for
ever. It was to be bigger than Sydney or
Melbourne —-which would mean that the un-
improved ground values would bring in over
£2,000,000 a year, and N.S.W., instead of
getting a dead rabbit and an unpaid bill,
would receive nearly £1.000,000 a year as its
share of the unearned increment. The only
way such a city could be raised would be by
making it a great manufacturing centre with
a great independent port alongside. The
proposed site at Dalgety. with Twofold Bay
as its outlet, seemed to fill the bill as nearly
as possible. The water-power of the Snowy
River offers means for the cheapest manufac-
turing in Australia. Twofold Bay, as a
port, is capable of wiping the floor with
Melbourne any day, or even twice a day, and
it might easily, with sufficient and reasonable
opportunity, shift the trade centre of that
part of Australia from Melbourne into
N.S.W. territory. But by reason of the
crazy jealousy of certain Sydney papers and
politicians, and in particular the folly of an
amateur colonel who possessed no business
capacity, the chance was thrown away. In-
stead of another City of the Violet Crown
there is a sort of skeleton hamlet on the
road to nowhere, and another epidemic of
diphtheria.
TALL MEAT IN SYDNEY.
Mention was made last week that the price
of flesh food or gory victuals, including
tripe, kidneys and pigs’ feet, had risen to a
higher status in Sydney than at any time in
the previous 10 years, and there was much
investigation and recrimination in conse-
quence. A general tendency was to take the
line of least resistance, and to blame the
capitalists and the banks and the Meat Trust.
That is an easy track of argument, like
blaming “Home,” or the Devil, or the lack of
nigger labor, or the malignity of somebody's
mother-in-law. There are points which
call for consideration, apart from the
simple highway of argument, which con-
sists in laying the responsibility on
someone else. To begin with, Sydney
is bigger than it ever was before, and re-
quires more meat. The long tangled railways
that lead to N.S.W.’s one big city are longer
than they ever were beforehand meat has to
be dragged over greater distances in order to
ensure a supply. The losses by death or
deterioration of bullock on the road have
reached a climax, for the amount of traffic
that is crowded on the narrow protracted
ways has increased beyond all previous re-
cords, and the delays have also increased.
The bull that survives has to pay for the cow
that is trodden to death in the trucks on the
interminable pilgrimage, and the more cow
is trodden on the higher is the cost of the bull
that lives. The wages of the pastoralists’
employee have gone up a little, but not much.
The railway men’s wages have gone up a
little. The butcher’s rent has gone up
mightily. The wages of his employees have
gone up somewhat. The taxes have risen
like a sky-rocket, because it is necessary to
pay interest on the awful permanent and re-
productive debt, which seems to grow more
permanent and less reproductive every time
it is considered. The railway charges have
been increased, also by reason of the perma-
nent and reproductive debt. The longer the
haul, and the slower the transit, and the
more death and depreciation of meat there is
on the road, the bigger is the freight bill.
And, by some streak of ill-luck, just when the
demand is greatest, and the congestion is
worst, and the delays are longest, and the
freight bill is highest, and the late lamented
cow that is thrown out of the truck by the
wayride is most frequent, the total quantity
of stock in N.S.W. is diminishing. The pub-
lished records are available only up to the end
of 1912, for the counting of cows and the
computation of sheep is a lengthy business.
But in 1912 they showed a tremendous de-
cline in cattle, sheep and pigs. There was no
great expansion of exports under the influ-
ence of any Meat Trust or other institution
to account for this falling off. Apparently
the struggle to get the animal to Sydney had
just made the grower too tired or heart-
broken to keep up the fight.
* * * *
To quote a single instance: Sydney insists
on being the sole outlet for N.S.W.’s wool ex-
port. For the two first months of 1913 the
export of wool was 54.000,0001 b. During the
two first months of 1914 it was 70,000,0001 b.
(Wool doesn’t die in the trucks when the
train is doing an average of two miles an
hour on a 450-mile journey.) Because
there was, for each of the first two months
of 1914, 8,000,0001 b. more wool blocking
the long railway to the one station in the
one city the meat trains travelled more
slowly, were more frequently blocked, cost
more in transit, and left more perished food
behind them. Naturally the struggle for the
animal that survives after climbing over that
extra 8,000,0001 b. of wool was intensified,
and the price rose. At the same time the in-
clination to grow meat for the city, or to
send meat to the city, didn’t rise. Meat
Trusts are bad, but they aren’t the whole
trouble, or even half the beginning of the
trouble, in N.S.W. A Meat Trust which pro-
poses to monopolise local supplies, and do a
big export trade, and grievously loot the
meat-hungry folks of Europe, must needs
have an outlet for its goods. If Sydney is
the only outlet, and the bottle-neck can’t
find sufficient accommodation for local trade,
then the Trust is just as badly crippled as
anybody else. Considering the lack of any
boom in meat exports from N.S.W. it may
be inferred that the Meat Trust hasn’t got
fairly to work in that State. Possibly it
started and found circumstances too much for
it. At all events there are sufficient explana-
tions for the high price of meat in Sydney,
based on long-standing local evils arising out
of long-standing local selfishness, muddle and
mismanagement. The U.S. Meat Trust is
almost certainly operating in Queensland, but
then Queensland has a multitude of ports at
which a steak and chop monopoly can find a
means of exit. It can hardly do that in N.S.M .
Both it and its ill-gotten cow would be trod-
den to death in the Redfern tunnel.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Man of Faith.
There must surely be an astonishing
capacity for ignorance or for plain lying
about the professional advocates of peace.
As a case in point, witness this extract
from a letter in Sydney Telegraph, dated
April 29, and signed “Stanley F. Allen,
Hon. Sec., Australian Freedom League, Syd-
ney Council”: —
If our young nation chooses to act in a fair,
upright, honorable way towards all other Powers
there will be no need for such a system as we (the
first of all Anglo-Saxon people) have adopted.
Apart from the shameless historical lie (see-
ing that Britain had compulsory military
service for anything between 1090 and 2000
years within the times we know of, the lie is
pretty shameless), this is about the worst blas-
phemy ever published against Jesus Christ.
For He, the greatest teacher and the most per-
fect gentleman that ever lived, came to
grievous trouble and suffering on earth. If
“Stanley F. Allen, Hon. Sec.,” implies
that He met these troubles because He
wasn’t “fair, upright and honorable” in His
dealings, then that person (Stanley F.
Allen to wit) is taking, in his lack of
enlightenment, liberties such as many polite
and learned atheists wouldn’t care to be
guilty of. Incidentally it might be a great
idea if all advocates of peace and non-resist-
ance were compelled to live in houses
painted pure white. The color would sig-
nify that the inhabitant is peaceful and
non-resistant; that he is,.fpir, upright and
honorable in all his dealings ! with other
Powers, including night-prowlers, explorers
of ash-bins, dog stealers, stray cats, bottle-o
persons, burglars, forgers and the like; that
no compulsory (or compulsorily-paid, which
is the same thing) police force will be called
in to defend him; that his front door and
his safe and his daughter’s bedroom are
always open ; and that if he is robbed or
sandbagged it will be entirely because of
his own lack of fairness, uprightness and
honor —the robbers and sandbaggers being
beyond suspicion—therefore he will have no
complaint to make. Therein lies the whole
story of the opposition to compulsory defence
(or compulsory payment for defence, which
is the same thing). The difference between
England and Australia lies in this fact:
When a country has nearly 700 people to the
square mile, a sufficiency of voluntary de-
fenders (paid by compulsory taxation) may
be found amid the population, but when it
has less than two persons to the square mile
the whole population is required for defence
purposes. But the compulsory element is
there in either case.
—
The Bruce Smith Land.
The chief tragedy of Mexico is that the
Mexicans don’t own it. It is the world’s
most horrible example of' a country from
which foreign capital has refused to be
scared. The United States, Britain and
France own most of the railways, the
national bonds and the industrial enter-
prises. Just twice as much of these assets
as the inhabitants do, to be explicit. The
Mexicans look strong in ranches and farms,
but the majority of these are heavily mort-
gaged to foreigners. The rubber industry is
owned abroad. France is chief proprietor of
the mills and factories, and Britain and the
United States have legal possession of the
oil wells. That is one of the reasons yyhy
war is chronic in the vast republic. It re-
quires no capital to wage guerilla warfare,
and there is a gratifying possibility of loot
about the procedure, and an off-chance of
putting a stroke across the loathly foreigner.
Mexico is a naturally wealthy country, but
until its people get hold of the mainsprings
of its resources it is not in human nature
that they should give themselves up to steady
and continuous work. If ever they get an
honest leader, who will not only lead, as
Diaz did, but who (as Diaz didn’t) will
ruthlessly discourage the foreign capitalist,
Mexico will have a chance of becoming peace-
ful, prosperous and progressive. It has no
chance now. It represents, in the most ad-
vanced form, three things that the old Aus-
tralian Tory party used to crave for: (1)
The importation of foreign capital to de-
velop the great natural resources of the coun-
try; (2) abundance of cheap colored labor
for the benefit of a small, white population :
(3) big estates and great “captains of rural
industry.” When you get these things toge-
ther—and in no other country are they com-
bined on so large a scale —and when you get
them in a country where the mort-
gaged white population has to fend for
itself, and hasn’t, like the white fragment
in India, an empire behind it, that is Mexico.
During its alleged republican days it had
two emperors, both executed; a “Pastry
War” with France because of the alleged
stealing of tarts from the shop of a French
baker in Mexico city; another French war;
a British war; several Spanish wars: a
United States war; a President with a
wooden leg; about 250 revolutions in 60
years; many Presidents that only lasted a
few days; one President that lasted 12
minutes; quite a lot of Presidents who died
by violence : and a whirl and blaze of hap-
penings. These stirring events all turned on
two points: (1) The mixed races couldn t
agree; (2) the cheap colored labor was in a
state of chronic anger; (3) the great mass
of the people, seeing that the land was
owned by a few big owners (many of them
foreign), and the mines, railways, banks,
insurance offices, and public debt by outside
capitalists who had come to develop the great
natural resources of the country, didn t care
a hang.
The Status of the N.S.W. Labor Confer-
ence; to which is Added the Parable
of the Big Flea.
There is an ancient distich which runs as
follows: —
Big fleas have little fleas upon their backs to bite
And little fleas have lesser fleas ; and so ad infinitum
The axiom which is involved in the aboi e
challenged by the N.S.W. Worker


(23/4/T4), and the Labor organ is guilty
of other wild statements. According to the
Worker, which is annoyed at Premier
Holman’s attempts to discipline Speaker
Meagher in connection with the Legislative
Council trouble: —
The Labor movement has no leader. It represents
a phase of evolution infinitely in advance of the days
when the workers had to be “led.”
They have no use for leaders. In conference
assembled they formulate their "policies and decide
their tactics. In mutual associations they select
their candidates and conduct their campaigns.
Also: —
Premier Holman is Labor’s servant, and his Gov-
ernment is Labor’s servant, and if they have not
sufficient humility to glory in rendering service to
Labor; if, in an excess of self-esteem, they seek to
exercise the power of masters over Labor; then the
sooner the situation is defined the better for all
concerned.
The Labor party, speaking through the mouth of
its High Court, the annual conference, has decided
that before persons are appointed to the Legislative
Council by the. Labor Government : they must be
approved of by the executive of the movement.
Etc., etc.
There is no doubt that the Labor Confer-
ence stands for much that is best and most
democratic in the Labor movement. (In-
cidentally it stands for much that is utterly
visionary and damphoolisli.) Still, take it
for all in all, and with its palpable faults
set against its manifold virtues, it voices
the opinion of the best sort of Australian
Labor voter. But to suggest, as the
Worker does, that it speaks for the whole
of the Labor voters of N. S. Wales, or for
anything like that number, or even, for that
matter, for a majority of them, is, unfor-
tunately, manifest rot and idiocy. The pity of
it is that Conference in nowise stands for the
Labor vote in N. S. Wales. The best that
can be said of it truthfully is that it repre-
sents the views of a big majority of the
Leagues. A huge Labor vote, which is out-
side the Leagues, as well as a sizeable
minority of the League vote, is resolutely
hostile to the opinion of Conference —a cir-
cumstance which is demonstrated afresh at
every election. The assertion that the voice
of Conference is the voice of Labor is
neither more nor less futile than the con-
tention that “Labor needs no leaders.” The
thing has a line, large sound; but it is com-
pletely meaningless. No enterprise on God’s
green earth ever proceeded a yard without a
leader. Sometimes a cause gets a capable
leader, such as Garibaldi, or Luther or
John Wilkes, and then it goes ahead like a
bush lire.. Occasionally a cause is afflicted
with a weak or shifty leader like McGowen
or Holman, and then it halts, and unless
the opposing leaders are very, very feeble it
falls dead. But always there must be some-
one running the show. For example, the
N. S. Wales Labor Conference has itself a
President or Leader —just as the Sydney
Worker has a Manager and Editor.. The
Conference consists of representatives of
the different State Leagues. Each of
the Leagues has its President or Ruler
or Chief or Dux or Boss. Each league
has various branches, and each branch
has its President or Mayor or Head
or Panjandrum. Many of the Leagues have
what may be called natural leaders —force-
ful characters to whose judgment they
defer with almost slavish docility. There
is no more uproariously independent lot . of
toilers, for example, than the waterside
workers. Yet at a word or two from that
small, deaf, dyspeptic, W. M. Hughes, they
often become as lambs. The leadership
question is a fundamental principle of
human nature that no amount of newspaper
skite can abolish. The Big Plea is an im-
perishable proposition; and the aspiration
of the Smaller Fleas to wipe out the larger
insect and run things on their own, while
easily understandable, can never be more
than a beautiful dream. The only move-
ment in which there are no leaders —any
doctor with experience in. mental diseases
will endorse this —is a riot or upheaval
in a lunatic asylum. Lunatics lose the
power of order and discipline and combina-
tion. It is about the. first instinct that, goes
when the mind begins to fall to pieces.
Therefore an absurdly small number of
weedy, ill-paid and. unarmed warders, be-
cause of their organisation, can jump on an
absurdly large number of robust lunatics.
Even Anarchists, who profess to want to
destroy all law and order, have leaders —
boss anarchists or boss destroyers or chief
abolishers.
♦
Australia’s Bitterest Haters.
Australia is afflicted with an unpleasant
type of citizen that exists hardly anywhere
else in the world. He finds this country good
enough to live in. Sometimes he is able
to make money in it —though more often the
bulk of his income is remitted to him from
abroad on condition that he stays here. Oc-
casionally he is a native. Btit always, he
hates the Commonwealth and .everything as-
sociated with it, barring possibly its money
and its alcohol, with a loathing that he
would scorn to conceal. One of these unde-
sirables, ah imported man named C. E.
Jagomb, wrote an embittered book about
Australia the other day, and now we have
A. W. Pearse, of the Pastoral Review.
The burden of Pearse’s ( dreadful work
is the estimableness of the nigger, by
comparison with the average White Aus-
tralian. In his view, “the Pacific Islands
laborer is far more preferable to live and
work with than his white brother in Aus-
tralasia.” So are Chows. If his book ex-
presses Pearse’s true sentiments he would
marry his female relatives to coolies or Asia-
tics rather than to the -.sort of Caucasians
who, for good or for ill, haVe made Australia
what it is to-day. He hasn’t travelled enough
or read enough, seemingly, th comprehend
the significance of a nigger problem, and so
he is a Black Australian to the backbone.
The only hope he can see for the Territory
is coolie labor. Also, if he had his way,
our wharf-lumpers would be African negroes ;
our seamen Asiatics of divers breeds; and
the rest of our workers tamed savages of
one sort or another. The pastoralist would
thus be able to do better for himself in a
financial sense, in the opinion of Pearse.
True the race would presently become half-
caste \or. mulatto or something; and descend
automatically to the present status of Mexi-
co, Portugal and every other piebald nation.
But in Pearse’s view, as expressed in his
book, that would be a trifle. Australia
strikes him as a rotten hole anyhow. The
more he saw of foreign parts the more this
aospel of the immemorial remittance!* was
borne in on him. He would be glad, one
gathers, to get away from the loathsome
place and settle down happily in Ivorea or
Senegambia or Port Said or the Southern
States of America, where they burn one live
nigger every week-day and two on Sundays.
But he can’t. This is the only place where
he can earn what represents to him a living
wage: and so he comes back here and takes
it out of the hide of the country which pro-
vides him with a livelihood. On the same
day that the writer came across I eakse s
book the Interstate Commission was en-
gaged with what one may term a Commercial
or Trade. Peakse. Just as it is Pearse s
job to misrepresent, by any means fair or
foul, the cherished institutions of the country
where he elects to earn his living, so it is
the mission of G. A. Teale, of Melbourne, to
heap mud on its manufactures. Teale ap-
pears to have the same fatuous belief in his
slanders that is suggested in the furious
outpourings of Pearse. Teale, in support
of his view that Australian-made goods—the
work, that is to say, not of cheap niggers but
of white men working under decent condi-
tions —must necessarily be rotten, _ assured
the Commission, “that if Australian-made
three-ply veneer was soaked in water, the
veneer would come to pieces.” The. Com-
mission decided to test the truth of this, wild
allegation. As a result, Chief Commissioner
Piodington was impelled to speak as
follows: —
We have carried out the experiment as suggested
yesterday. All the samples of three-ply veneer sub-
mitted to the Commission have been completely im-
mersed in water for 18 hours, and then exposed to
the sun. As a result, the Australian-made three-ply
veneer, specially manufactured for butter-boxes, has
completely stood the test. On ervery side these veneers
are as good as ever before. The other veneers sub-
mitted by Mr. Stukrock (the local manufacturer)
have fared variously ; but, on the whole, may be said
to have completely stood the test. With regard to the
imported veneers, only two very small pieces can be
said to have stood the test in any way whatever. The
others have completely broken down under it.
According to the Melbourne dailies the Chief
Commissioner wound up by “expressing the
strongest condemnation” of Teale, he
having obviously entered into an organised attempt
to disparage an Australian manufacture. The result
of the experiments carried out by the Commission
would not allow them to put any reliance whatever
upon evidence that was evidently part of an organised
campaign of disparagement of Australian manufac-
tures.
The moral difference between the organised
attempt of Teale to disparage Australian
manufactures, and the organised attempt of
Pearse to disparage Australia is indiscern-
ible to the naked eye. Teale slande" j in
the interests of the importers; Pearse acts
as a sort of heeler for the cheap labor-seeking
pastoralist. Neither would be endured in
a starkly patriotic country like Germany.
There are times when this paper wonders
whether Australia doesn’t carry too far its
bland tolerance of the people who take away
its character in the intervals of accepting its
benefits.
«
The Bucolic Person’s Latest Grope
after a Fair Deal.
The formation of a Country Party in the
ranks of N. S. Wales Liberalism was one
of those things that had to happen before
long. The Holman crowd is sufficiently
Sydney-led, but the Liberals are in this par-
ticular respect the absolute and dizzy limit.
The explanation may be found by a casual
glance at the personnel of the Liberal execu-
tive —the body which lives in the classic old
Pitt-street cellar or excavation, or what-
ever it is, and which corresponds to the
Laborites’ caucus. Four-fifths of the mem-
bers are city or suburban property-holders,
of a more or less extensive sort, and most of
the remaining fifth consists of property-hold-
ers’ agents or heelers. What earthly pro-
spect of a fair deal has the Country from
such as these? The essence of all fiery poli-
tical enthusiasm is self-interest. Sometimes
it is a national matter, and as an outcome
of it an army and a navy are evolved. More
often it is a parish affair of higher or lower
wages, or a railway deviation. The main
immediate interest of every Sydney landlord
is to bloat Sydney to bursting point. What
may happen to property values later, as a
result of this unnatural process, is of scant
interest to the advocate of bloat; since he
expects, before the slump or other trouble
has arrived, to have realised at a big profit.
The idea of opening up to trade such price-
less harbors as Port Stephens and Jervis
Bay fills the type of citizen who controls the
Liberal movement with a kind of weary
gloom. He is unable, for the life of him, to
see the necessity for anything of the sort.
He is prepared to supply a dozen reasons or
more why the deed should not be done. The
scheme represents, to his mind, an interfer-
ence with the established order; something
equivalent to a proposal to sub-edit the
Lord’s Prayer. Any township that ever
eventuates on either of these provincial
harbors must begin by being an insignificant
place, and hence, he argues, it must remain
for ever small and paltry and miserable.
That is to say, whatever money is spent on
linking up Port Stephens and Jervis Bay
with the main railways will be wasted
utterly. Far, far better to outlay the bor-
rowed or other cash in Sydney. The country
dweller has grown utterly sick of these spe-
cious contentions. In his opinion they repre-
sent the last word in dull, mule-headed sel-
fishness. His wheat rots and his stock per-
ish in the attempt to force their way into
a city that is not equipped to receive them.
When he reflects how different things would
be if there were an outlet for his perishable
goods at the nearest big port, he seethes
with impotent annoyance. The opening up
of the great starved (ports of N. S. Wales is
one of the most obviously needed of local re-
forms, and it is only shelved persistently
because the vested interests of Sydney are
so powerful that neither party is able to
take a firm stand in opposition to them.
Failing an Elective Ministry, composed of
independent legislators who have no organi-
sation of earnest Sydneyites to answer to,
the formation of an effective Country Party
represents the only way, so far as the
harassed country resident is concerned. And
salvation isn’t a certainty even by means of a
Parliamentary country section. There is
the possibility of some of them proving
WADE-ites first and decentralisationists a long
way afterwards. In fact, The Bulletin
arises from a consideration of the names of
the members of the newly-formed organisa-
tion with a dejected impression that that is
just the sort of country representative the
majority of them are.
Carson the Paranoiac.
Max Adams has an opinion :
Everybody knows nowadays what paranoia is. The
term has been made colloquial by insanity pleas from
the case of Thaw to that of a certain Sydney police-
man. What about Sir Edward Carson, King of the
Smaller Scrap of Ulster, as a paranoiac ? The speeches
of the rebel barrister with the heavy jowl show him
more and more exalted in the belief that he is a
Heaven-sent instrument to scourge the Devil in the
shape of the Nationalist and Liberal parties.
Hark to some of the things which King Carson
has been saving in the past year or two. Already he
has visions of himself as a conquering Napoleon in
the field of battle. “I like to get nearer the enemy.
I like to see the men are preparing for what 1 call the
Great Day.” Here he is affected by a reflexion of the
national paranoia which Germans have caught from
their Emperor. That speech (made at Carney Hill, in
August, 1913) came , after a comic-opera series of
manoeuvres by part of his “army.” At other times
he has proved equally well that military megalomania
has got hold of him. The belief that Belfast intrigu-
ing has split the British Army in two is firmly rooted
in his mind; and pothing could be more like a
paranoiac delusion than this faith in a figment sup-
ported by so little evidence.
Carson is a trained lawyer, and a good one ; but
here his ego has so deceived him that he has become
incapable of estimating probabilities. “Action on the
part of the British Government will, I believe, smash
the Army into pieces, because it will divide the
Army.” (Speech at Ballymena, July, 1913.) “A day
never passes on which I do not get, on a really low
average half a dozen letters from British officers ask-
ing to be enrolled.” (Speech at Craigarvon, July,
1913.) “I tell the Government that we have pledges
and promises from some of the greatest generals in
the army.” (Speech at Antrim, Sentember. 1913.)
Quite early the Scrap-of-Ulster King had begun to
regard himself as the splendid rebel. In June, 1912,
he announced in England: “I intend, when I go over
there to break every law that is possible.” (Even hen-
stealing and pocket-picking were on his programme.)
A little later the inauguration of the “Solemn Cove-
nant” took place, with a grandiose ceremony attended
by armies—of soldiers? No; of reporters and photo-
graphers. They are the paraphernalia of paranoiacs
nowadays. The Covenant was attested under electric
light of 39,000 candle-power, for the sake of the mov-
ing pictures. The blaze of publicity sent King Carson
soaring thereafter into the first person singular. He
began to think of himself as the Cassar of a new
nation. “The whole of this matter is to me one of
the gravest responsibilities I have ever had in my life.
I am no thoughtless lad, trying to inflame bigoted
passions.” No; he was a GoD-given leader of great
events. “My own people in the North of Ireland,” he
called them with magniloquent proprietorship in the
Ulster Guardian, in December, 1912. Religious
ecstasy was soon added to the other stigmata of para-
noia. “There is the Covenant. There is the copy
I signed. I have never let it for one moment out of
my possession. I have read it many times, and I have
prayed that I might live up to it.” (Speech at Bel-
fast, May, 1913.) Finally the Covenant becomes a
thing that is entirely’his own. It is he, Carson, in
his own person who has made this league with
God Almighty. “I know nothing about legality or
illegality. All I think of is my Covenant. My Cove-
nant to me is the text and foundation of what is
legality and what is illegality.” (Speech at Craig-
arvon, July, 1913.) A month later in Belfast the
frenzied Captain Craig told the people that “Sir
Edward Carson had been sent from Heaven.” King
Carson was present. He himself by now seems to be-
lieve or almost believe in his Divine origin.
When the drunken bruiser in Masefield’s poem ran
round the place shrieking: “I’m fire of Hell come up
this minute to burn this town and all that’s in it,”
was he any more preposterous than King Carson?
Two doctors have sent men into asylums for opinions
of their own destiny far less extravagant than those
of the Monarch of the Covenant of the back-streets of
Belfast. If Sir Edward Carson’s liberty depended on
the diagnosis of his condition by a couple of Chis-
holm Rosses, I wouldn’t like to guarantee too big an
amount of insurance.
«
A Railway Complication.
By an old railway man: —
When Victorian Railway Commissioner Fitzpatrick
went abroad last year he seems to have made an honest
attempt to find improved safety appliances that would
make repetitions of Sunshine and Richmond disasters
impossible. Neither England nor the United States
have given the “automatic stop” much consideration.
In fact the Victorian experts reported that in England
it has been tried only in one or two places ; but where
in use on the lines of the Great Western Company 7
it has proved very successful. The European conti-
nental railway systems are far ahead of both British
and American railway companies in this respect.
But the Commissioner made last Wednesday week
the pleasing announcement that some “auto-stops” are
to be installed on the Victorian system for experi-
mental purposes, and if they prove successful and re-
liable they will be installed generally. To the average
person whose life will be in the keeping of these
automatic appliances it is all so much Greek. In the
beginning of railway signalling there was a great
struggle between the positive and the negative sys-
tems. Which, stated baldly, is so much more Greek.
But it is simple enough. Under the positive system
all lines are open unless the signals are at danger.
That is to say that the normal position of any
signal is “Clear Line—Go Ahead!” And the duty of
the signalmen under that system is to close a line
when it is occupied by a train. Under the negative
system, on the other hand, all lines are closed unless
the signals are at “Clear Line”; and the duty of
the signalman is to open the section of line if re-
quired only when that portion of line does not con-
tain a train. The normal position of the signals
is at “Stop—Danger.”
As a safety factor the system under which a num-
ber of manipulations of signalling instruments has
to be made to admit a train on to a section that is
clear should triumph over one in which a number of
manipulations are necessary to keep the same train
out of a section already occupied by another train.
And as it was with Block Signalling in the beginning
so it is now with Automatic Stops. There are many
systems of automatic stops; but the greater proportion
of them are positive—so that if they fail to act the
train dashes on in fancied security to utter smash.
The negative systems are few, and they are handi-
capped by being about 15 times as expensive to
maintain and three times as dear to install.
The best auto-stop system this writer wots of is
an Australian invention, which is now being ex-
tensively adopted on the continent of Europe. It
had nothing to do with the ordinary Block system.
An electrical contrivance in the engine itself keeps
the brakes off the wheels. Immediately the engine
comes within half a mile of one in front the electric
current is diverted, and, after the sounding of
a warning gong and the showing of a
red light, steam is automatically cut off, the brakes are
jammed on hard and the train is brought to a sudden
stop, to be automatically released immediately the
other train moves out of the circuit. The only
thing against this system is the cost of installation
and maintenance. It is expensive, and some ex-
perts fear it is super-sensitive and liable to hold up
trains in wet weather or when a rush of storm-water
has swept rubbish across the line or disturbed the
surface ballast —which, come to think of it, is
hardlv a defect.
It is pleasing to hear that the Commissioner is making
an effort to make the dangerous Victorian lines safer;
but it would be foolish to get wildly enthusiastic
over the announcement till it is known whether the
proposed automatic stops are worked on the positive
or the negative systems.
■ ♦
“0.K.” : The selection of Victorian candidates
for the Senate has got the Liberal leagues
and parties into another wrangle. Sam
Mauger, the hatter, has withdrawn his
name from the list of candidates on the
ground that the shemale section of the
caucus would not give him a fair chance to
be chosen. When the result of the poll is
announced some of the rejected ones will
certainly kick. Probably candidate Packer,
of the “Independent Workers’ Union” will
refuse to be snuffed out by a caucus vote, and
truly Packer will have cause for complaint.
A party that denounces preference to union-
ists as a crime against Liberalism ought to
pick Packer for its standard bearer. Didn’t
he advocate independence for his motley
gathering of “unionists” before preference to
trades unionists was ever talked about?
Doesn’t he believe in organised opposition
to organisation? Packer is the proof spirit,
the distilled essence, of Liberalism. If the
Liberal political unions refuse to select him
as a suitable person for the Senate he ought
to assert his independence as a worker and go
alone.
Portland (Vic.) had a gala day last week
to celebrate the beginning of its outer-harbor
works and of the Victorian section of railway
line which will connect that long-suppressed
district with S.A. Announcements of the
gala arrangements were a lovely satire on
the policy which a long succession of Mel-
bournian Governments has practised against
Portland. The capabilities of its harbor
could be taken for granted from the fact that
“H.M.A.S. Melbourne left Williamstown for
Portland to take uart in the celebration.”
But the awful inefficiency of its railway ser-
vice was admitted by the statement that Pre-
mier Watt and a political picnic party,
having left Melbourne at 11 p.m. on Wednes-
day, by special train, to attend the celebra-
tions at Portland on the following day, would
“leave on the return journey to Melbourne
shortly after midnight, and reach the city on
Friday morning.” And this Portland, so
easily approached by a warship yet so hard
to get to and fro by rail, is the place where
the Hentys landed 80 years ago, come next
November. If Watt had any poetic ten-
dencies he might have written an elegy among
the ruins of Portland’s once-prosperous gaol.
The Vote of Censure.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Len’s a pipe er baccer, Bill.
Siddown over there.
Bloomin’ contrac’s been ’ung up again.
Aw, there’s no use worryin’ ;
Whips er time to spare;
Blokes will ’ave their quarrils now an’ then.
’Ere’s them flamin’ managers
Scrappin’ like the dooce.
Playin’ at the same ole silly game.
Chuck yer pick an’ shovel down,
Wot’s the bloomin’ use?
We kin dror our wages orl the same!
Toil to do? Er course ther’ is—
’Eaps er solid work;
’Nough to keep us goin’ overtime.
But when bosses chucks it in
An’ begins to strike,
Well, fer me an’ you it ain’t no crime.
Ther’s that darn ole Tariff Wall
Ain’t been mended yet,
Said they’d ’tend to that long years ago.
Aw, don’t bust yer boiler, Bill !
You’ve no call to fret;
Pay-day’s cornin’ all the same, yeh know.
Yus, I’m pretty sick of it,
’Angin’ ’round the job,
While they squabbles all the ’ole _ day long.
’Ere, when one bloke does a bit,
’Nother silly yob
Comes an’ pulls it down, becos it’s wrong.
Then they starts to mix it up,
’Ell fer leather. Biff!
Yow! An’ goes an’ wastes a month in talk.
Only fer the pay I’d be
Orf in ’alf a jiff.
Struth! I’d pick me dunnage up an’ walk !
It’s the flamin’ system, Bill,
Got us in its grip:
Me, an’ you an’ orl the blessed lot.
If they don’t soon alter it,
Take my dead sure tip,
Things on this ’ere job ’ull go to pot.
Orl lars’ shift they forks a treat,
Gittin’ nithin’ done;
’Ere, this shift they starts to fork some more.
Jist sit back in comfort, Bill/
Stay an’ watch the fun.
Ther’s a bit er wages still to dror.
Dunno wot ’e’s thinkin’ of,
Bloke ’oo owns these works.
If ’twas me I wouldn’t wait fer munce.
Orl this brawlin’ crowd ’ud git
Swift an’ suddin jerks.
Out into the cold, ’ard world at once.
I’d not stand this sorter thing,
Not fer arf a day :
Runnin’ contracks at a dead sure loss.
If yeh carn’t agree, git out!
That’d be my way.
But, er course, I ain’t the bloomin’ boss.
Say, I’ve ’eard this boss uv ours
’E’s the simple kind;
Dunno where ’e are or wot ’e thinks ;
Dunno ’ow to manige things,
Carn’t make up ’is mind.
Shouldn’t be su’prised to ’ear ’e drinks.
These ’ere toughs ’as got ’im fair
On a bit er string;
Pulls ’is leg a treat when they wants cops.
Then, when ’e ingages ’em
It’s another thing;
An’ orl thort er toil they gently drops.
Listen to ’em ’owlin’, 8i11....
Give it to ’im, Joe !
Sool ’em, Andy/ Keep it goin’, boys!
Buck in, Willie! Lise yer boot!
Land ’im with yer toe !. . ..
Strike me up a wattle; Wot a noise!
Spare me! Ain’t it boshter, Bill?
Better un a ’•'lay.
Work, they calls it! Wot a bit er kid .
An’ fer this ’ere sorter thing
Ev’ry bloomin’ day
’Ere’s the boss shells out five ’undred quid !
Aw! Don’t start to worry. Bill.
Work? We ain’t allowed !
Put yer feet up ’ere an’ ’ave a smoke.
We jist gotter loaf eround
Same as orl the crowd.
Work? Well, you’re a funny sorter bloke!
Contrack’s stopped ! I’m tellin yeh
While they squabbles. . . .Ho !
Look at Joseph gettin’ shirty ! Yow !
Ain’t ’e workin’ fer ’is money?
Bash ’is ’ed in, J0e!....
Come on Bill ; our cheques is ready now.
VICTORIA.
DEN.


Hotel Steyne,
Manly Beach, N.S.W.
Facing the Pacific Ocean.
THE BRIGHTON OF AUSTRALIA*
SURF-BATHING RIGHT IN
FRONT OF THE HOTEL.
Excellent Golf Links in Close Proximity.
Hot Salt Water Baths Adjacent,
TERMS —From \ 1/6 Day;
£3 I Os* Week.
ACCORDEONS
THE
“DUDLEY” Accordeons
Famous for full, sonorous tone and
excellence of design and finish.
Ebonised Mouldings; Nickel Corner
Protectors; Button Keys of Mother of
Pearl ;i Finest Steel Reeds; 10-fold
Double Bellows, with Brass Corner
Protectors; Leather Handles; d6m-
plete in box.
WONDERFUL VALUE.
MODEL A, 10 x 51 in., 2 stops, 10
keys,, 2 rows of reeds, and 2 basses,
Post Free .... 35/-
THTS SHOULD SUIT YOU.
MODEL B, 10 ,x 6 in., 3< stops, 10 keys,
3 rows of reeds, and 2 basses. Post
* ree 45/-
Write for Lists of Instruments.
A.P. SYKES,
272 LITTLE COLLINS ST MELBOURNE
—— l —
MAMMA, DADDY AND CHILDREN ALL
LOVE “CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Harmless “fruit laxative” cleanses the
stomach, liver and bowels without
any griping.
A delicious cure for constipation, bilious-
ness, sick headache, disordered stomach, indi-
gestion, coated tongue, sallowness—take
“California Syrup of Figs.” For the cause
of all this distress lies in a torpid liver and
sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful tonight means all com
stipation poison, waste, matter, fermenting
food and bile gently moved out of your sys-
tem by morning without griping. Please
don’t think of “California Syrup of Figs” as
a physic. Don’t think you are drugging
yourself or your children. This delicious
fruit laxative cannot cause injury. Even a
delicate child can take it as safely as a robust
man. It is the most harmless, effective
stomach, liver and bowel regulator and tonic
ever devised.
Ask your chimist for a bottle of “Cali-
fornia Syrup of Figs,” which has full direc-
tions for babies, children of all ages and for
grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Beware of counterfeits sold here. Get the
genuine, made by “California Fig Syrup
Company.” Refuse any other kind with con-
tempt. “California Syrup of Figs” is sold
by all leading chemists, 1/I| and 1/9-
Liberalism made a criminal mess of its pre-
election of the six Victorian Senate candi-
dates. As a preliminary, the ballot was
bungled, the vote being taken by each of the
three component leagues separately, as the
central body declared it hadn’t enough funds
to carry out the job. Then the undertaking
that no ‘‘ticket” was to be issued was freely
broken. The Argus next printed its own
little list—the sole recommendation of the
favored ones being their hopeless Toryism.
Mauger, seeing how the land lay, slung in
his alley. The ballot closed on May 2, and
of course the selected candidates will claim
to go on the ticket, and the unsuccessful ones
will say the interference damaged their
chances, and Mauger promises to run on his
own, anyhow. So, what with one thing and
another, matters are about as orderly as a
midnight row of black cats on a stranger’s
roof. By way of a sporting event this paper
gives its vote for Samuel Mauger. He
is a manufacturer, an employer of Australian
labor, a fairly good Australian and a good
Protectionist. Ilis brand of piety may be
an offence and his name a misfortune, but
the reason why Samuel M. doesn’t get on
with the crowd he belongs to is that he is
immeasurably superior to most of the gang.
“Sea Lawyer” writes:—
Sydney’s Marine Court, with the aid of an army of
legal talent, has been investigating a Port Jackson
bump. Two steam-lighters, towing punts along Darl-
ing Harbor, collided violently, with the result that
the air became full of profanity and the harbor
swollen with sunken punts. After weighing the evi-
dence the Court pitched on one of the lightermen as
the offending party. This luckless wight, who held
a master’s ticket, was severely lectured by the Chair-
man of-the Court, and his certificate was ordered to
be hung up for three months. This action, according
to Judge Murray, was intended to serve as a warning
and a deterrent. Still, as the law does not require
those in charge of steam lighters to hold a master’s
certificate, I don’t observe where the deterrent pro-
poses to obtrude itself. The lighterman in this case
need only hand in for three months the document
which he happened to have, and go on, in the mean-
time, galloping his recent lighter (provided the
owner is satisfied), or another lighter, or his old
punt, or a fresh punt, up and down the Port Jack-
son course. I don't know whether the Marine Court
was aware of that. Probably not. There’s a whole
pile of things that same old Court isn’t aware of.
“The Heathen”: During the evenings
of last week, the Anglican clergy of
Melbourne had the Scriptures explained
to them, in the dimly-lit St. Paul’s
Cathedral, by Headlam, the imported
Moorhouse lecturer. The surroundings, as
described by the uneasy daily paper reporter,
were reverently dramatic : :
The patter of feet is heard, those assembled rise,
and Dr. A. C. Headlam ascends the pulpit. The
lights are lowered, notebooks come out, and, in the
semi-darkness, clergymen and other students endeavor
to put on paper the passing points. Embryo sermons
are there by the score. Standing practically motion-
less, cloaked by his academic gown with its scarlet
divinity hood, Dr. Headlam details the Christian case
for miracles, and combats adverse criticism. He is '
no orator. The voice has little gradation of tone,
save that the leading Christian arguments are stated
in a kind of triumphant chant. Subtle sentences
lose themselves half-way down the nave, and the
sound travels only to the shadows near the roof.
And, of course, the shadows don’t contradict
him. If there is anything calculated to give
a plain person noises in the head and specks
before the eyes it is an involved theological
discourse in the usual dim light. I have a
vivid recollection of one such performance
in the private chapel of a college. The
audience was a group of devout laymen (I
was a mere intruder), and the lecturer an
aged cleric who sat huddled at the
foot of the altar, and never once looked his
listeners in the eye. His method of concen-
trating his thoughts was to let his head
101 l on his chest and shake it occasionally
at his feet. He had the appearance of a
man who had been hung. After a quarter
of an hour’s darkness and mumbling and
stone-cold draughts. I felt quite dead. And
although I listened with both ears and all
my intelligence, I couldn’t make plain com-
mon sense of him from any angle. I have an
idea that he defended in some tortuous way
the ancient, art of lying ; but I won’t swear
to it. I think t I would have laughed at that
holy professor if the lights had been turned
up. A dim light and a cold, dank atmos-
phere are absolutely essential to all such
seances.
The Oldest Inhabitant:—
A recent paragraph in a Sydney newspaper recalls
an old-time tragedy, the author of which was never
discovered. The paragraph related to a legal action
regarding the will of Mary Hoadley, who owned
property in King-street, at the rear of the Australian
Bank of Commerce, three houses known as “Hoad-
ley’s Buildings, 1842,” as we used to read on the
parapet. Mrs. Hoadley was murdered in her bed
early one Sunday morning in 1845, the witness to
the tragedy being an adopted daughter (who became
Mrs. Robert Fitzstubbs, and who died but recently
at Mosrnan). A man named Cadman was tried for
the murder, but acquitted. The old lady, the widow
of a butcher, who had disappeared from Sydney some
years befqre, had made her will in favor of the
adopted daughter, but had not signed it. Solicitor
James Norton, who had prepared the document, satis-
fied the Court of Mrs. Hoadley’s intentions, and, as
she had neither kith nor kin in Sydney, and the
butcher husband was still in a state of vanishment,
the adopted girl obtained the property. Miss Maud
Fitzstubbs (Mrs. .Woods) and Mrs. Bladen, widow cf
the late Public Librarian, are daughters of Mrs. Fitz-
stubbs. I’he Australian Bank of Commerce recently
erected a fine structure on the site of Hoadley’s
Buildings.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Forty Thieves.”
Palace “The Colleen Bawn.”
Adelphi “The Mayor of Tokio.”
Little Theatre “The Gay Lord Quex.”
'Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan-Fuller’s Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium & Olympia. West’s Pictures.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures.
Prince Alfred Park... Wirths’Circus.
Imperial Salon De Luxe Dancing.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s. “Come Over Here.”
King’s “Worst Woman in London.”
Royal “Dorothy.”
Princess’s “The Rosary.”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Town Hall Ellen Terry Recitals.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
♦
Gilbert and Sullivan’s “Mikado” is the
rich inspirational uncle of “The Mayor of
Tokio,” now flourishing at the Adelphi (Syd-
ney). But as Gilbert and Sullivan will
never collaborate furiously again, and are
big enough to be considered Old Masters, and
as imitation is the sincerest form of wor-
ship, no hard words needs be said about
librettist Richard Carle and composer Wil-
liam F. Peters. Indeed, Carle might even
be rebuked gently for not getting a little
closer to Gilbert —say as close as Peters has
got to Sullivan. “The Mayor” is one of
the brightest light musical shows Sydney has
been offered during the last year or so. The
story is one of those narrative clothes-lines
that anything can be pegged on to; but it
never breaks off utterly and trails in the mud
of dullness, and the songs and dances that
flap in the wind are worth their places.
Then the co., though it includes some weak
members, has a few whose work is excellent
and occasionally brilliant. Miss Grace
Ellsworth, as Madame Stitch, the wild, wail-
ing wardrobe woman and ex-ballet dancer
of an American co. travelling in Japan,
proves herself a genuine comedienne with a
sense of humor of her own. She is remin-
iscent of a woman character in “Mrs. Wiggs
of the Cabbage Patch” —that is to say, the
Cabbage Patch female is the only character
who is in the same weird class. Mr. Car-
rick Major, as Marcus Kidder, impresario
and manager of the co., is a genial comedian
who doesn’t work too hard to make his
points ; also he possesses .a fine baritone voice
which he uses cleverly. His easy, confident
manner is most noticeable when he removes
his battered comedy belltopper, ties a red
handkerchief round his head brigand-wise,
and then sings a difficult and serious ballad
with considerable success. Bobby Woolsey,
as Rusty, the song-book boy, supplies a
character sketch of a familiar American
type, and works well with Eva Olivetti. She
is Birdie Talcum, a bitter soubrette who
attributes the failure of the co. to the fact
that she wasn’t allowed to play Juliet. Amy
Murphy, as Oloto San. daughter of the
Mayor, has the most picturesque woman’s
part, and does a deal of duetting with tenor
George H. Bogues. George looks less like
a love-making tenor than any stage singer
HARRY LAUDER , AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS'S.
Something about “Ma
Daisy.”
“We Parted on the
Skore-r-r-r.”
the writer has ever seen ; but, despite his re-
semblance to a spruce welterweight cham-
pion, he gets the verdict on points from the
audience when it comes to singing. Miss
Myrtle Jersey, who has a qtdetly attractive
style, is a musical comedy lady who plays
an encore to her own song on her own
violin. It is a gracious innovation. The
play is adequately mounted, and some of the
songs should haunt the town. Anyone who
has been missing his musical comedy else-
where is hereby recommended to see “The
Mayor.”
** * *
“Sealed Orders,” the J. C. Williamson
.Ltd, bellowdrama, is still raging at Sydney
Royal, and if the supers’ clothes and uni-
forms are not as correct as they might be,
everybody concerned tries to conceal the
deficiency by shouting at the top of his or
her voice. (Almost anything can be con-
cealed by making a noise. There was once a
hostess who, through the neglect of a house-
maid, found her drawing-room encumbered
with the dead bodies of three poisoned lovers
on her day at home. Just as the first batch
of guests was admitted, she threw up her
hands and screamed at the top of her voice.
The function passed off quite successfully,
and, if the guests noticed anything amiss,
they were too well-bred to mention it.)
* * * *
There are two points of interest this week
at the Palace (Sydney). One is the revi-
val of “The Colleen Bawn” and the other is
the replacement of Allen Doone, as Myles
Na-Coppaleen, by Harry Roberts. Doone has
a bad throat and needs a rest. The Bulletin
doesn’t know a more hard-working showman.
Dion Boucicault’s old drama has been re-
ceiving the welcome hand, and might have
been with advantage put on earlier in the
season, when Doone was well. It suffers
with Doone audiences from lack of Doone.
Roberts approaches his work at a right
angle to Doone, as it were. In the beginning
he was nervous, as he always is when start-
ing a season; but no amount of confidence
would have placed him on the right side of
a Doone audience. As a matter ,of cold fact,
no understudy of Doone could hope for howls
of applause in the Palace. The pest piece of
acting in the old-timer is that of'Tom Buck-
ley, as Father Tom. An appealing player at
any time, he is especially recommendable as
the parish priest in this piece. Edna Keeley
also earns this paper’s approbation (for a
change), and; no harsh remarks are passed
over the footlights to anyone in the company.
The programme at the National Amphi-
theatre (Sydney) is no worse than it was
last week ; and last week it was one of the
best The Bulletin has been introduced to
in the hall. With that compliment the
paper removes its lid and bows to the man-
agement.
These are not jimjams. They're Lauder's
Scotch walking-sticks.
The Imperial Dancing Salon (Sydney) is
doing business that makes the managers steal
away two or three times a nighi, and shout
themselves hoarse or some otfiesr brand. The
Thespian supper on Friday; night was an
especial attraction to the spendthrift classes.
A similar roll-up is billed for to-morrow
night.
* * * *
There are several good points about the
Six Camerons at Sydney Tivoli, but the
best are (1) they don’t sing ragtime; (2)
their turn lasts only 15 minutes or so, when
there’s nothing to prevent it lasting 30;
and (3) there are only six of them, whereas
there might easily be ten or a dozen. There
are a few other good points, but those are
the main ones. The Shentons, a trio of
rather good step dancers ; Ed. E. Ford, “the
Australian sundowner” ; Fields, the silent
humorist; the Elliott Savonas and Sam
Stern are the props of the remainder of the
show.
At the rear end of this week Wirths’ Cir-:
cus will put away its tent, fold up the hippo-
potamus, stow away the lions with a few
moth balls, bank the cash and move on. For the
benefit of the various people who have just
come out of gaol or for those who have seen
the show five or six times and want to see it
again, it might be mentioned that, till the
date above hinted, it will continue at Prince
Alfred Park, Sydney.
❖ * *
If all the admirers of Barry Lupino, Marie
Eaton and Edwin Brett, whom the manage-
ment of Her Majesty’s, Sydney, was re-
gretfully obliged, during last week, to turn
away from the doors, cash in hand and seeth-
ing with disappointment and annoyance—
if all these people, we say, were placed on
the ground in a straight line, head to heel,
they would stretch from the front step of
the pub two doors from The Bulletin office
to the police station at Oodnadatta (S.A.).
If they were heaped one on top of the other,
in Hyde Park, or the Domain, or in the
middle of the Never Never Desert, or in one
Pf our other open spaces—however, to put
it shortly, the pantomime is going stronv. The
writer has said this before, and he hereby
asserts it again, and anyone who gives him
the lie must take the consequences. He can
have them whenever he likes, but should he
be found taking anything else that doesn’t
belong to him there will be trouble.
* * * *
The bedroom scene in “The Gay Lord
Quex” is still drawing good audiences to
the Sydney Little Theatre. When a drama-
tist is in doubt he plays a bedroom, and
wins.
Albert Toulouse
demonstrates at
Wirths ’ Circus
a new method
of proving that
"It squiteall-
rightm' dear."
The revival for one week of “The Fortune
Hunter” at the Criterion affords Sydney
another chance to witness a pleasant comedy,
one of the best produced during Fred Niblo's
long stay in Australia. Niblo is one of the
finest and most finished actors we have had
here. His “business” in this play is peren-
nially delightful. Josephine Cohan, as the
heroine who knows how to scrub, again fails
to make herself quite audible, and thus the
audience misses much of her dainty charm.
Plumpton Wilson takes for the first time
the character part of old Sam Graham; and
his work is solid and sincere. Another
change in the cast, and a strengthening one,
was Sydney Stirling as the promoter. The
rain was, as usual, quite wet.
The pick of this week’s films in Sydney:—
Crystal Palace : “The Gardener’s Daughter,” a
condensed version of Tennyson’s poem of that title;
also, “The Mexican War,” 2000 ft. of preliminaries to
the present bloodshed.
Lyric: “Raid of the Red Marauders,” one of the
most sensational Sitting Bull or Spotted Tail films
to date.
Spencer’s Lyceum: “London by Day and Night”
—said to be the only way of seeing London without
being run over by a ’bus. Book seats or be dis-
appointed.
West’s: “The Eleventh Commandment,” at the
Olympia only. The Glaciarium has been handed over
to the skaters.
* * * *
Good acting is the great feature of the
present Williamson opera season at Ade-
laide Royal. That of the three women in
the first act of “The Chocolate Soldier,”
Florence Young, Celia Ghiloni and Dorothy
Brunton, was striking; so was that of the
new recruit, Robert Whyte, in various parts,
ranging from an angry general to Peter
Doodv. A co. that can quietly drop Frank
Greene and Miss Young, as this one did for
“The Arcadians,” proclaims its strength.
Dorothy Brunton, who should have a big
future, definitely took a leading place as
Sombra; but she gets one black mark for
playing the obviously comic and middle-aged
charlady in “The Balkan Princess” as a
“straigth” part—in fact as her own charming
self. Reginald Roberts is just suited by
the modern convention which allows singing
lovers to have of humor too. At the
King’s are various clever Brennan-Fuller
turns, mostly American ; the Valerio people
on a wire; Fanny Rice taking a wide range
of characters in her own jolly way: Crotton
and Ivremka,. Leslie and Sol Bern fun-mak-
ing. The brightest turn in the variety line,
however, is. that of Vallecita at the Tivoli,
the prevailing uncertainty as to which of
her leopards will bite her, and when, giving
it a sort of gambling interest. The gilded
Athlqnes are now showing their good form
or forms at. this house. The Orpheus So-
ciety has given a brilliant evening at the
Exhibition, in support of a Carnival for the
blind, that is to rage for a fortnight; and
at the Town Hall Waller’s Butterflies, under
Wondergraph ‘‘direction,” have .a steady and
profitable public for anything they care to
put up.
❖ #
Ellen Terry, the most-talked-of lady in
Melbourne just now, makes the first of her
three appearances at the Town Hall to-night
(Thursday). Saturday and Monday are
the. other dates. Her discourses on the
various feminine offspring of the Immortal
Bard s remarkable brain, with illustrative
acting, will keep her on the platform for an
hour and a quarter in all. Also Blascheck
will monologue and the rest of the pro-
gramme will be musical. Miss Rose Alba,
Miss Dorothy Humpheys and Rebottaro are
tne songsters engaged, and Miss Marjorie
Gray wifi play the violin. The Ellen Terry
season will be limited to three nights, appar-
ently, for on Tuesday, Thursday and Satur-


Still another of Victoria’s big alluvial gold pro-
ducers has struck its doom. This is the great
Southern Mine at Rutherglen, and on the 13th and
14th of May next the loud voice of the auctioneer
will be heard to proclaim that the whole of the goods
and chattels of the company (now in liquidation)
will be sold, or knocked out, or down, or some-
thing without mercy. The plant is one of Vic.’s
biggest efforts and cost a fabulous sum to install.
Fortunately the claim was no duffer—something like
£400,000 in divs. came to light. The plant con-
sists of a full rig-out in every detail necessary for
up-to-date alluvial mining. The power used was
exceedingly heavy, and was produced by both steam
and electricity. Application to Somer and Dabb,
Maldon, Victoria, will bring forth a detailed cata-
logue of 500 lots.*
For All
Seasons
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.G,
LOUD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC
68£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.VV.
Branches in all parts of the world.
BUNYIP FOREST
DEVIL!
SAVES POUNDS
While CLEARING.
You must clear youi land to make money.
Prosperity follows the plough. Big trees,
huge boulders, ugly stumps all give way to
the “BUNYIP” FOREST DEVIL, that roots
them out as though they were weeds. Simple
to work, economical and durable. Write:—
John Cooper 8 Sons,
287-9 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, Victoria.
CHALLENGE.
MURPHY CHALLENGES THE WORLD
TO CURE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL
BLEEDING PILES.
Permanent Cure. Established 1891.
MURPHY’S PIIjE PILLS, NON-
APERIENT,
have cured thousands of cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by
ANDREW MURPHY, WOY WOY,
N.S.W., Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, or a Course of 8
boxes £l. All postage free.
On Sale by all Druggists, Chemists and Store-
keepers throughout the States.
day of next week Leonard Borwick will ten-
derly caress the keyboard of a grand piano
at the same Town Hall.
** * *
Alexander Watson’s stay at the Athen-
aeum Hall (Melbourne) must have been pr -
longed under pressure from General Desire
or Carlyle Smythe. Anyway, the versatile
recitalist is still there, drawing treasures
of literature from his caverns of memory and
entertaining his admirers for 90 minutes aDd
more at a stretch, without pausing for a
drink. “The Everlasting Mercy” (three
times did the Mercy last for ever) is the
only programme that Watson has repeated,
thus far, but to-night (Thursday) he gives
“Richard II.” once again.
* * * *
Harry Lauder’s month at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s ends on Friday night, when the audi-
ence’s final chorus to “A Wee Deocli and
Doris” should be the sweetest and neatest
noise of its kind that ever happened under
local vaudeville conditions. It is always
guid to see and hear the braw, bandy-legged
apostle of insobriety lure a mixed gathering
of citizens into song, but on Friday nicht it
will be truly gran’. Lauder, ye ken, is a
magnetic musical comedian, who, being a
verra reespectable mon himsel’, appeals most
forcibly to the least disrespectable sections
of the community. Therefore his finest hum-
orous effect is in the fact that his spontane-
ous choristers infuse a tone of sanctity into
“A Wee Deoch,” etc., as though it were an
intemperance'hymn. On Saturday and Mon-
day the co. appears at Ballarat, with Ben-
digo, Geelong and Horsham in prospective.
Drama resumes its sway at the Princess’s
on Saturday, and a new American company
will come to light. E. J. Carroll (theatre
arrangements with Geo. Willoughby, Ltd.)
takes great pleasure in announcing the first
appearance in Australia of “The Rosary.” His
pleasure in the announcement is due to the
• a^oresa id having been an easy winner
in America wherever it ran. It carries what
the advt. describes as “a virile religious senti-
ment” warranted not to give offence.
* * $
The. final croaks of lamentable “Madame
A will be heard at Melbourne Royal to-
night (Thursday). The Williamson Comic
Opera Co. is to put in six nights with a revi-
val of “Dorothy.” beginning on Saturday;
and then comes Fred Niblo and co. in “Never
Say Die.”
** * *
The tall and inconspicuously lovely Gow n
1 araderesses of “Come Over Here” (at Mel-
bourneTler Majesty’s) appeared in a change
ot outfits last Saturday, otherwise the only
recent change in the Revue entertainment
is an interruption, in the course of the plank
that used to run right across the centre gang-
way. Which new terror is due to the Board
ot He_alth. Two steep flights of steps have
been let into the gap, as it were, and if a
scare were to occur in the theatre whilst
one. or more gown trotters were on the plank
their means of escape to the stage would be
cut. off. Also the gangway would be blocked
as it never was blocked before, and a grue-
some tango would result.
"THE MAYOR OF TOKIO," AT
SYDNEY ADELPHI.
The Mayor assents to the marriage of his
daughter with the Sporting Tenor.
“What Happened to Mary” is eventuating
for the last times at Melbourne King’s. Mary
goes on Friday. She is the most guileless
girl on record, so, by way of restoring public
opinion to its normal balance, Anderson will
revive “The Worst Woman in London” on
Saturday. In the Bert Bailey productions
virtuous womanhood is apt to run to ex-
tremes, and the reputation of the theatre
demanded that a sincerely vicious heroine
should get _ another look in. “The Worst
Woman” will be assisted on this occasion by
a number of vaudeville items, and her wick-
edness will be, if possible, more pronounced
than before.
The Ada Reeve season at Melbourne
livoli got further stimulus on Saturday
from the Two Bobs, who unblushingly claim
to have been the pioneers of ragtime in Eng-
land. Other members of the co. are the
same as before. It is gratefully remarked of
Ada Reeve that she has no ragtime ditties in
her repertory. She talks, sings, acts con-
siderably, dances a little, and does it all
without changing her frock. But she rags
not.
* * *
The chief attraction at Spencer’s, Mel-
bourne, last week was “The Curse of War,”
a rather unconvincing view of a modern
scrap with aeroplanes supplying the bulk of
the unpleasantness. “The Outlaw” proved
to be a mere retailer in the same line of
business. His efforts were greeted with
hushed cheers, as also were the activities of
“The Pote Lariat of ‘X’ Ranch,” a film
which showed how the hardest boozer of his
district suffered from a rush of poetry to
the head.
** * *
“Jean Sibi” :
J. J. Ililder has been showing a bunch of his pic-
tures at the Melbourne Centreway. A gifted artist
with a highly educated color sense, the Sydneysider
contrives to knock the bottom out of the superstition
that common, lowly toil is too ugly for pictorial
presentation. One has only to view his set of
observations in a clay pit to realise that plain Bill
with his barrow and his bowyangs may be made a
thing of perfect beauty. “A Little Landscape,”
“Suburban Landscape,” and “A Country Post Office”
are notable for their color and workmanship, and
the serene beauty of “The Plough” is undeniable;
but, generally speaking, every effort in the show de-
mands a bouquet. Judged on this display, Hilder
stands eminently above the ruck of local contempo-
rary workers in his medium.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Nietzsche”: Masefield’s “The Everlasting Mercy,”
which Alexander Watson recited at the Melbourne
Athenaeum lately, indicates the amount of life that
a person of drive and initiative can pack into 30
hours. The hero’s exploits during that period in-
clude a prizefight, an affaire de lust, three drunks,
two fits of dangerous insanity, in one of which he
assaults an inoffensive town with a fire-hose, and a
conversion. It is towards the fag end of the third
drunk, the hour being 11.30 p.m., and the scene a pub
parlor, that he generates the inner light. After-
wards he wanders about in the night and broods
darkly, as exiled drunks will do, and the curtain
falls. The closeness of the relationship between
religious inspiration and dingbats is well illustrated
in this poem. The fact that Watson wasn’t arrested
for “language” also illustrates the circumstance that
this offence is merely a matter of location. Also,
the show illustrates a number of other things which
I can’t call to mind at the moment.
“0.K.”: After hearing Walter Kirby sing at one or
other of the Saturday Pop Concerts at Melbourne
Auditorium, a lot of people have been wondering
why that strangely non-typical Australian doesn’t
return to Britain and earn 10 times as much money
as he can hope to pick up in his native land. Per-
sonality counts for much on an Australian concert-
platform, and Walter's personality seems to have got
on the nerves of his countrymen and women. He was
something of a prophet in his own Melbourne ere he
went to Europe a few years ago. The women, any-
how, adored his voice, and made a pet of the young
man. When he returned, with the same sweet voice
and a vastly-improved method of using it, there was
no rush to hear him. The bit of reputation he had
made in London didn’t help him at all. People
objected to his effeminate airs and graces off the
platform rather than on it. His name was no draw,
and for a long time he rarely appeared at a public
hall or theatre except as one of the audience. And
then people casually remarked that they thought he
had gone back to England. He was singing only at
private houses. On Good Friday he ran a highly
unappreciated sacred concert at the King’s Theatre
“ SEALED ORDERS” AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Malcolm Tearle saves a woman's name by
(earing up an incriminating letter under the sea.
before an audience who would have preferred nigger
minstrelsy. But his voice and his art were beautiful.
Then the Taits engaged him for their Pops, and a
more musical public is now reluctantly consenting
to be charmed by his performance. Still, there is a
general disinclination to “rave” over Walter Kirby.
Any visiting tenor, with a hard, old voice and a
shoutful top note, may be raved over for his singing
and for himself —but not Kirby. He ought to be
singing these times to a world that would know him
only as a supremely sweet warbler with a much better
stage appearance than the average Italian tenor. The
quality of his voice is rich, the production is effort-
less, and the notes are as smooth as glass. The sym-
pathy in his rendering of the music and words is
feminine as compared with, say, John McCormack,
but, then, Mac is quite a rough vocalist as compared
with Kirby.
E. J. Carroll (of Queensland and New South
Wales) has how in Australia two of his long string of
shows for 1914. Le Koy, Talma and Bqsco, the
world-famous illusionists, commenced their sea-
son at Perth on Saturday, and Harrington Reynolds
will produce “The Rosary” in the Princess’s, Mel-
bourne next Saturday. The latter co. arrived
from U.S. by the Ventura on Monday, and went on
by rail the same evening. “Just time for a whisky
and a so-long,” as Reynolds complained. Other
Carroll shows in the immediate distance are “Bunty
Pulls the Strings,” Cosmo Hamilton’s “Blindness of
Virtue,” and a dog and pony circus.
An interesting experiment in the show business in
New South Wales is the Country Amusements, Ltd.
At least, it will have that name when its formation
is complete. Up to now the country towns have had
to take any old thing in the way of entertainment
that came along, and be thankful, even if it was the
worst show on earth. Generally it was. Reynolds
Denniston (of the late Plimmer-Denniston combina-
tion) and one or two others have an idea now that
the time is ripe for giving 23 of what might be
termed No. 1 towns high-class plays that have
attracted the metropolis. The selected towns are
Gunnedah, Narrabri, Moree, Inverell, Glen Innes,
Armidale, Tamworth, Singleton, Muswellbrook, Bath-
urst, Orange, Forbes, Parkes, Goulburn, Cowra, Young,
Murrumburrah, Wagga, Cootamundra, Dubbo, Wel-
lington, Yass and Alburv. In each of these one perform-
ance will be given on the same date every month by a
good co. The shares are to be held in the various
towns—lso in each and no person may hold more
than 15. As nearly as possible, every play that is
successfully produced in Sydney will be taken on
circuit by Country Amusements Ltd. It looks an
alluring proposition for 23 communities that have
been more or less show-starved up to the present.
Mr. Denniston would have commenced a preliminary
tour of investigation last week, but postponed it
owing to being specially engaged by the J. C.
Williamson firm to appear in the drama, “Sealed
Orders.”
From the agony column of London Times: “I
have the best drama, full of comedy, written since
‘The Silver King.’ I want it read by somebody with
money, enterprise and intelligence. The Tin Gods
of the stage are unapproachable, save through their
underlings, who have sawdust where brains should be.
There is £lOO,OOO in this drama. (Signed) A. G.
Hales, war correspondent and novelist.” The signa-
ture might have been that of any other than the
unquenchable “Smiler.” The humanity of the docu-
ment lies in the fact that it expresses in the fewest
possible words what every dramatist on earth thinks
about his own particular Bellow.
“Melb ”: At a picture show I have just seen the
finest bathos ever imported. It is called “Faith in
the Flag.” First there is one of those New York
schools where immigrants of divers orders, either
sex, and every age and every language, are taught
the New York variety of English. On July i the
schoolmistress gives each a little U.S. flag on a
stick, and says. “Remember that no harm can come
to anyone who is under this flag.” Carita, a poor
Italian widow, gets one. She lives in a squalid
place called Hennessy’s-lano. with her little son and
her mother. The child is taken very ill. The
Italian doctor holds out no hope. She lays the
flag upon the child, but, fearing there -may not be
enough of it, goes out to buy a big one. Her money
is insufficient, and she is in despair. O’Sullivan,
a retired army surgeon, greatly values a huge old
banner which was with his regiment in the civil
war, at Chattanooga or Chickahotniny. His wife
washes it, and hangs it over a rosebush in the gar-
den. Carita runs off with it, but a newsboy sees
her, and follows her home. Then he goes to O’Sul-
livan, who is on the track directly. He wants to
recover the standard that flapped at the battle of
Chickabiddy . Lick. He pushes open the door of
Carita’s home, and sees the flag spread over the boy,
while the two women kneel by the bedside. Carita
cries “Mother! I believe this is a doctor. No harm
can come to anyone under the flag.” And the doctor
cures the boy. After that there is much “Hail
Columbia,” and pork and beans, and spreadeagle,
and some Bourbon whisky, and a corncob is eaten
all round, and addresses are delivered by Elijah I’o-
gram, and Jefferson Brick, and Colonel Starbottle,
and. Jack Hamlin, and the Outcasts of Poker Flat.
Finally there are three cheers •and a cocktail.
“Harrison O.”: Melbourne Repertory Theatre has
doubtless done something to assist the local play-
wright, but it might have done a lot more. There
would seem to be little justification for the present
system of producing foreign plays in the Theatre
Royal, while relegating local efforts to the
barn-like St. Peter’s: Director McMahon says
that he gets a different class of audience for
the Australian drama, but there is no reason
for supposing the class to be less numerous.
Full audiences have been attracted to Aus-
tralian-drama nights at the Athenaeum and St.
Patrick’s, which was not always the case when
imported highbrows held the stage at these
places. The foreigner has now been given the
advantage of a first-rate theatre, while the
local writer has to be content with a pocket-
handkerchief stage in a holy ball. If he had
been tried in one of the regular theatres, and
the audiences had been found wanting, this
treatment might be justified, but as it is it
looks as if the Repertory management is merely
using the Australian writer as a sop to the
local patriot, whose subscription the. theatre
wants. In the matter of casting, too, the
home-grown author is apt to receive less than
justice. This was the case with Alfred
Buchanan, whose “Tmagc Breaker” was put on
the other night. It is true that the manage-
ment is not altogether to blame for this, as
the Repertory ranks include a weird type of
amateur mummer who refuses to squander his
or her histrionic talents on anything- that does not
bear the merit certificate: “Made Outside Australia.”
One way and another, the indigenous dramatist is in
need of heaps of enthusiasm to sustain him.
The following letter—or, maybe, it is an ultima-
tum —was received at this office during the week: —
Editor Bulletin.
Dear Sir, —I am going to be an actress how do I
get there ?
Yrs. truly, ANXIOUS.
“Anxious” (she doesn’t supply any name or address)
is so dead sure that she’s going to be an actress that
it seems a blank waste of time on her part to ask a
completely uninterested third party how she’s going
to “get here.” (The reader will notice that, with a
splendid feminine disregard for details, she neglects
to specify where she wants to get—or where she
intends to get unless stopped by the police.) The
editor of The Bulletin passes on the warning to
theatrical managers everywhere. At any moment
“Anxious” may launch herself from the void at
whatever stage she is aiming at, and start being
some sort of actress. It is depressing to dwell on,
but it can’t be helped. If any person finds a totally
unexuected actress anywhere during the next week or
so, she will most probably be “Anxious.” But, then,
nearly all actresses are Anxious. Those who are not
Anxious are Dashed Worried.
(Continued on page 86.)
“Adelaide”: A Social-reform Bureau, so-
called, has had the nerve to ask Adelaide
City Council to decree “that no persons be
allowed to remain in the parks around the
city after 10 p.m. in summer and nine in
winter.” The letter was merely “received.”
The contract is too big. To say nothing of
squares and gardens, Adelaide’s park lands
are from a quarter to a third of a mile wide,
ringing the city with a belt perhaps eight
miles long! But the important point is the
open suggestion that the thickly-scattered
thousands haunting park or river-bank on
warm evenings are there for any improper
purpose. To say, as one city councillor did,
that they are after “a breath of fresh air ”
is to blink the question. Their purpose is,
in the vast majority of cases, frankly flirta-
tious, and why not? Nothing is alleged
against the young people who do their court-
ing in dimly-lighted drawing-room or conser-
vatory, and a democratic country ought to re-
sent the labelling of every girl as immoral
whose parents don’t possess those apart-
ments, and whose only chance of privacy is
the open air.
THE PROFESSOR AT THE PANTOMIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
And he remarks on our fare: “During
the whole of the year there is produced in the Aus-
tralian theatres those pantomimes which are only
given in England from Christmas to Easter.” It
seems to surprise him that people “in the prime of
life” should be content with this sort of thing.
—News item.
The wandering Professor turned him round within
his stall,
From which he watched the pantomime of “Adam;
or, The Fall” ;
The ballet of “Temptation” was the scene then
being staged,
And as he viewed that leggy void the good man was
enraged.
“Tut-tut!” he said. “Oh, pish!” he said. “Of
course, they’ll have their fling;
But fancy grown-up folk content with this-sbrt-of-
thing!”
The ballet was succeeded by the comic Angel-Coon,
Who put salt on the Serpent’s tail and sang about
the moon;
And, after flirting hard with Eve, the Angel-Coon
withdrew,
Asserting that: “Ah want that gal—you bet your
stars Ah do!”
What time the zithers and banjoes went “ping-a-
ponga-ping.”
“My godfathers!” groaned the weary Professor.
“Isn’t it lamentable to think that grown-up
folk can listen to this-sort-of thing!”
Next time the curtain rose upon the Valley of the
Apes,
Wherein the chorus wandered round in most attrac-
tive shapes,
Till put to flight by hideous beings falling in a
loop
From off the gorgeous scenery—the Great Euphrates
Troupe!
“Oh, sainted mother!” moaned the Prof, who watched
them sway and swing;
“This is monstrous — incredible ! —one ought to write
to the papers to protest against the utter folly
of grown-up folk who patronise this-sort-of-
thing.”
“Surf-bathing in the Rivers Five,” the next big scene
was called.
It pictured angels bathing—the Professor was
appalled! . .
“Most inartistic —oh, absurd!” he muttered, in a
pet.
“God bless my soul! Imagine angels with their
plumage wet!”
Once more the chorus wandered on—their feathers
seemed to cling,
Which fact drew from the Professor the caustic
remark that there were far too many feathers on
the small angels, but nothing to what he could
see on the hats in front of him; at the same
time, it was scandalous that people should go
to see this-sort-of-thing.
The good man’s indignation was not lessened in the
least
When in the fourth act (Scene Nineteen)) they put
on “Satan’s Feast” ;
The scene was laid in Hades, and the devils all were
seen
Arrayed in horns and tails and hoofs, with flames
shown in between.
Here Mammon and Beelzebub—the Bounding Brothers
Byng—
Brought down the house with comic gags and busi-
ness, but the Professor simply glared at them
and said: “In the name of Art, and by the god
of Dramatic Criticism, how can grown-up people
sit and watch this-sort-of-thing?”
The sternest sense of duty only kept him in his chair
Until the Anal moving scene, “Eve Cuts Her Hus-
band’s Hair” !
In this the chorus, quite disrobed—bar haloes, wings
and spears—-
Encircles Our First Parents, driven forth in leaves
and tears.
Here the Professor woke right up; some joy it
seemed to bring
To his discouraged heart, for he smiled, and was
heard to remark that, after all, though himself
no wowser, a chorus like that was almost angel-
like, and perhaps there might be some excuse
for grown-up folk who were content with this-
sort-of-thing !
N.B.W.
PETRONIOUS EARBITER.


> A
■- ;
mm®*
.-
i
Tbckxy t/uny tTilLr
A n Invitation t o
Inspect the Largest
and Most Ideal
Fadlory in Australia.
The Directors of David Jones, Ltd., will be
pleased if the reader will pay a visit of in-
spection to their new Factory, situated at
corner of Marlborough and Goodlet Streets,
Surry Hills.
This Factory is the largest of its kind in
Australia, and will be open for inspection
from 12th May to 16th May.
DAVID JONES LTD.
wottii
Vacuum Oil Co.
Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
Hospital Saturday got it right on the
point this year and its barrackers took the
full count. With an army of 5000 female
street-cadgers, the whole foolish and insult-
ing jamboree realised only £7717, as against
£BO3O last year. Sydney Telegraph, which
has done its share of the H.S. boosting, now
has serious doubts about the whole busi-
ness. (It might easily have had the same
doubts years ago and not waited for a drop
in the takings ; still a death-bed repentance
is better than none.) The King-street
organ, in its issue of May 4, took itself
firmly by the ear, and, leaning far round its
own neck, asked itself a series of pertinent
questions. It suspects “a growing feeling
that the requirements of the hospitals and
public institutions of a great city like Syd-
ney ought not to be dependent in any degree
upon the chances of a collection from the
passers-by in the streets.” And again. "A
conviction that this is not a business-like
method of dealing with the situation is pos-
sibly felt by a considerable section of tne
public.” Thus the ’Graph, after many years
of blasphemy by every man that has had oc-
casion to use the streets, has a feeling in its
bones that the system whereby 5000 allegedly
respectable women pester and hold up
a city during a whole day for an
equivalent of 3d. or less per flying inhabi-
tant is a waste of time. Perhaps the paper
had a suspicion long ago that it was quite
futile; but. of course the safest course for
a daily paper is to ascertain first what public
opinion is and then lead it from behind like
the Duke in the Gilbert and Sullivan comic
opera.
* * * *
Man climbs laboriously to the top of the
tree only to find it dust and ashes. And he
meets many strange bedfellows on the way
up. —From the Wisdom of Solomon Mal-
aprop.
* * * *
“Hash” writes: —
One man of impoverished luck is a Maoriland
lawyer wanted for the alleged misappropriation of
some £3OOO. On February 28 last his address in
a certain one-horse burgh in Otago, failed to
find him when J. Hop arrived. He had gone for
change of air, and the sleuths had to look wise and
smile tolerantly while irate creditors made caustic
remarks. For six weeks blank silence reigned, and
then came the news that the wanderer had been
arrested at Hokitika. His first flitting carried him
by a second-class ticket to Lyttelton, where, in
sailor garb, he arranged for passage as a deck-hand
in a sailer bound for Newcastle (N.S.W.). Fate,
however, thrust forth her front foot and delayed
departure by bad weather. After two weeks the
insolvent Columbus developed anxieties, and shipped
as purser on a small coasting steamer bound for
Greymouth. With a first-class discharge in his
pocket he then sought a timber carrier for Australia,
but that front foot of Fate’s was still protruding
most unpleasantly. To avoid the water-front Gentle-
man One sought Hokitika, and played there the part
of the gentleman-at-large, which was about the worst
part he could play. Pending “his departure for
Australia on a sailing vessel for health reasons,” he
made himself very agreeable to the townspeople;
was taken by the Mayor to the races; was
invited by leading merchants to the golf
links; and finally asked to be introduced to
the police, and discussed with the sergeant
certain aspects of criminology. In a word, he ran
wild, and instead of being a humble marine officer
waiting with a glass of gin and water in a cheap
hotel till his ship was ready, he became a sort of
Public Howl. The sergeant of police was at last
driven to notice the garish visitor who was so con-
spicuous in his desire to avoid publicity, and the
usual thing happened. It almost always does.
THE SOFT ANSWER.
H UBBY: " You are too little with me and too much with that fellow Clipton. Remember
familiarity breeds contempt .”
WIFEY : “ That's why, dear. I want to keep up my illusions about you as long as possible .”
ABORALIAN MODESTY .
SQUATTERESS (aghast): “Tilly! I cannot have you about the place dressed like that!”
TILLY: “Well, why you tell it yesterday that dress too Ishorl —show too much 'em leg?
Australia once owned a Baptist or Dip-
per parson named Spurr, who has now a
cure of souls in London. This person—so
it is cabled —has been holding forth in Bull-
opolis about the “absolute uselessness” of
our defence forces, because “Australia could
do nothing with her amateur soldiers if
China or Japan made a descent upon her.”
Australia’s young army may not amount to
very much as yet, still Baptist parson Spurr
was absolutely useless 40 years ago. And
he will be absolutely useless 40 years hence.
Also, he isn’t much use now. And if. the
Devil made a descent on him next Friday
he could probably do nothing. Australia’s
army, poor as it is, looks a great deal
stronger to-day than the Christian Church
did when it was the same age. And if par-
son Spurr considered this country to be in
such danger he shouldn’t have run away,
even if a higher salary was offering. He
should have stayed here, and died at his post
when the invasion came, and gone to
Heaven, and got a crown of gold, and a
lien on the golden streets, and a fishing
license on the Jasper Sea.
* * * *
Macleod, the chieftain of the Country Clan
in Victorian Assembly, seems likely to be
“chucked” by his Daylesford constituency at
next election. Daylesford is much perturbed
by the bursting-up of the famous
old Hepburn Spring which has
been one of the district’s chief
attractions for tourists. The
spring, though not lost, is gone
to pieces of late. The trouble
began in the underground opera-
tions of the new Hepburn
Mineral Water Co., the bottling
works whereof are at the back
of the Spring Pavilion. Macleod,
M.L.A., is considerably inter-
ested in this company. In fact,
the Hepburn folk think of
member Macleod as their worst friend, also
the rest of the electorate begins to think with
Hepburn. The local Progressive Association
is now urging the Minister of Lands to do
something or other towards rectifying the
wrongs inflicted on the good old spring, and
if he does nothing—well, the Daylesford
voters will naturally suspect him of having
had his ear bitten by their Parliamentary re-
presentative.
* * * *
The Oldest Inhabitant: —
S. M. Herald’s historian is once more in a muddle.
This time he talks of a “Sir John Young” trophy in
bowls. Sir John Young, afterwards Lord Lisgar, was
Governor of N. S. Wales in the ’6o’s. John Young,
the “father of bowls,” of Sydney, was eminent as
a contractor, but never achieved knighthood. Still,
the contractor’s job is useful, and the business of
being a knight is a bewilderment to the intelligent.
Few litigants have the luck that befell
George William Turner in the Sydney
Divorce Court last week. He was asking for
peace and freedom on the grounds of his
wife’s habitual drunkenness. In the middle
of his narrative the lady herself burst into
the court, and with the prefatory “ ’Scuse
me!” that so surely indicates the portent-
ously genteel stage of inebriation in certain
females, gave him the lie direct. Later she
had to be ousted, and as she went, struggling
manfully, she yelled: “I’ll blow his brains
out. I’ll shoot him.” And in due course she
was arrested and taken to the Central on a
charge of drunkenness. Of course the peti-
tioner got his decree. It was as though the
accused in a robbery trial had suddenly made
things easy for the Crown Prosecutor by pub-
licly picking the pocket of the Judge.
* * * *
“Chasuble” speaks :—•
The Brigidine nuns have just rather startled the
public by purchasing Matthew Boom Davies’s former
mansion at Mentone, the Melbourne watering place,
where they first plunged by purchasing the fine
coffee palace. The Orders run a race. First came
the Sisters of Mercy. Started with a bit of a
shanty in Nicholson-street, Fitzroy. Now they have
a magnificent church and immense convent. The
Little Sisters of the Poor, starting also with nothing,
have their palace for the indigent at Northcote. The
vast Abbotsford Convent has 800 inmates. The
nuns captured Chalmers Presbyterian Church, East
Melbourne, where Dr. Cairns exulted in fulminating
against the Scarlet La-a-dy. They tore down his big
church and steeple and built the materials into their
convent. The Good Shepherd nuns came in a ridiculously
small way from Sydney. They bought the splendid
Fitzroy Congregational Church, tore it down, and
built St. Evins’s Hospital. Before this they built
the noble St. Vincent’s Hospital close by, and it is
just extended with what is called the Druids’ Wing
over a side street. The Sisters of St. Joseph win
sympathy as an Australian order. They are great
in school and charitable work and buildings. It
would take much space to mention the Melbourne
edifices of the nuns. Most important of all are the
great institutions, such as the Loreto, South Mel-
bourne, and the Novitiate, Ascot Vale, for traimng
day-school teachers.
PRIVILEGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thieves evidently regarded the Easter holidays as
an opportune time for their activity. Scores of rob-
beries were committed in the areas that are regu-
larly patrolled by the police. —Melbourne Age.
They pinched a bloke in Little Bourke for cursing
at a cop ;
They lumbered Leary Liz, who’d been partaking of
a drop ;
They copped a bunch two-upping; and, before that
day was spent,
They pulled a kerbstone-bookie and a beggar, blind
and bent.
They did all this, and more,
While burglars by the score
Popped in and out of likely cribs, each to his heart’s
content.
The boys who came home bawling in a joyful, beery
bray
Found John Hop waiting for ’em in a most persistent
way;
And those who smashed up crayfish on the cushions,
late at night,
Were staggered when the watchful Law fell on them
in its might.
But certain sports there were
Who never had a scare
Although they broke the Law with ease in spots
ablaze with light.
The man. who meant to meet a mate outside the
Royal Mail
Got moved on to the watch-house, where he had to
wait for bail;
The lad who lingered for his love nearby the Book
Arcade
Was pushed along, and missed her —for the Pleece
must be obeyed!
And all the time, at will,
The talent tried its skill,
At busting cribs wide open and collecting cash and
trade.
They pinched a bloke in Little Bourke, that home of
dreadful vice,
Because he spoke a sergeant in a manner far from
nice;
They caught a girl in Lonsdale-street, and stormed a
piping Chow,
And caught a loafer resting, which the Law does
not allow;
But meanwhile, as before,
Mere burglars by the score
Hopped in and cracked more cribs.... No doubt
they’re cracking others now.
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.
TUB MAD BATTEH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dr. Schultz, of Mayence, predicts an epidemic of
female baldness if women persist in the present
type of headgear.:— Cable.
Fair woman’s lost her modesty,
Say saints who ought to know;
She’s lost her head, but not her hat,
Her hair’s now doomed to go !
As maiden young or matron wedded,
She’ll go for what she wants bald-headed!
Of hips and fine, seductive curves
She’s rid herself with pains.
Her dress she’s shedding rapidly ;
Her temper, though, remains!
She may her figure little wear on,
Say I, if she’ll but keep her hair on!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


Do you shave yourself? If so you can
get the best results by using a Diamond Edge (brand)
razor; price 7s. 6d. and 10s. 6d. each, postage 6d.
extra. Also sole agent for Apex Hair Restorer, a
true hair-grower, 4s. 6d. and 12s. 6d. a bottle. Sup-
plied only by T. Wild, 30 Sydney Arcade, Sydney.*
TO STRENGTHEN WEAK LUNGS AND
IMPROVE APPETITE AND DIGESTION.
Modern scientific treatment of lung affections
aims first to improve appetite, digestion and
nutrition, and secondly to heal the inflamed or
diseased mucous membrane of the lungs and
air passages.
The ideal preparation for accomplishing
these two objects is Angier’s Emulsion. This
remedy combines the soothing, healing pro-
perties of a specially purified petroleum with
the tonic properties of the hypophosphites of
lime and soda. By its soothing and disinfectant
action in the stomach and intestines it corrects
digestive irregularities and greatly improves
assimilation and nutrition, while at the same
time it exerts a most invigorating tonic in-
fluence upon the general health. Briefly stated,
Angier’s Emulsion is soothing and healing to
throat, lungs, stomach and intestines, an aid
to appetite and digestion, and a vitalizing
tonic and restorative. For twenty-one years
it has been prescribed by the medical profession
and used in the hospitals, and is now universally
recognised as a standard approved remedy for
lung troubles, digestive and bowel d isorders and
wasting diseases. The combined healing and
strengthening properties of the emulsion
make it invaluable for healing the lungs and
building up Health and strength after pneu-
monia, pleurisy, influenza or any illness
affecting the lungs ; also after measles, fevers
or any protracted illness. Even for the person
of average good health, Angier's Emulsion is
of value, because it keeps the digestive organs
in a normal healthy condition to perform their
functions naturally, thus making the use of pills
unnecessary. Of all chemists at 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
gh
CEYLON FLANNEL
SHIRTS — —ldeal for Winter
A good, warm shirt is very often used instead of
heavy underwear during winter. We quote a
special production in quiet-toned Ceylon Flannel,
very neat in style, and durable in quality. The
shirts are correctly cut and with each is included
one soft collar of the same material. Linen collar
may be worn if desired.. These shirts have soft
cuffs, with buttons.
In warm Ceylon Flannel, neatly striped in
subdued colors . . . *7/^
Please state linen collar size ,
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
THE LEAST SAID THE SOONEST
MENDED.
“Say, you took a mighty long time sitting out
that dance with Bobby."
“Yes. I was telling him I was never going
to speak to him again.”
KNEW HIS LIMITATIONS.
THE BOSS: “When I was a nipper I useter think , like you, that I knew everything
about cows; but now I've reached the conclusion that I know nothing."
THE KID : “Him! I reached that conclusion about yer long ago.”
“Leges”:—
The Rules Committee of the Supreme Court of
England, which includes the Lord High Chancellor,
Lord Chief Justice, Master of Rolls, President of
Divorce, Justice Pickford and sundry eminent bar-
risters and solicitors, has drafted the regulations of
a Poor Persons Legal Department. Indigent citizens
in quest of justice must fill in a form. Counsel will
then consider it, and decide whether there is a case.
If so, the proper legal men will be,briefed at Govern-
ment expense. This will not be so costly as might be
supposed. There is an enormous shoal of briefless
barristers, many hanging on for a number of years
without one brief. Most of them will be glad to get
the advt. of appearing in a case pronounced by the
Crown authorities to be good. The regulations per-
mit such aspiring men to violate etiquette by taking
briefs without fee, and so much will be saved to the
Crown. Provision is also made for putting through
divorce proceedings on the dead cheap.
* * * *
“Germophil”: The destruction of the
Druid’s false beard looks to me more than a
perishing of old traditions; it is wholesale
murder. Life was contained in those whis-
kers, which descended from func-
tionary to functionary. In one
set of fringes that I wot of were
stowed away the diphtheria that
slew three children of P. G. M.
Zerubbabel Pottinger ; the tubercle
that carried away Right Worship-
ful Axebearer Hannibal Katupna
Spoopendyke; the cancer that af-
flicted Chief Swordsman Titus
Trebbins ; and I don’t know what
other of God’s creatures may not
have had their habitat there. When
the beard is burned, not only shall
we lose memories of Zerubbabel
and Hannibal and Titus, but we
shall also commit a holocaust of
living things.
“The Heathen”: I struck it
again the other evening below the
newspaper portrait of a hard-faced
old Worker for the Good Cause.
The interviewer, who seemed to be
bursting with admiration for him,
capped his praises by describing
him as “a God-fearing man.” Can’t
understand why no Christian ob-
jects to the phrase. Why should
the Almighty be everlastingly re-
presented as something to be feared,
and the Worker as a cringing
coward ? Bernard Shaw refers some-
where to the popular conception of
God as “a very vindictive and
jealous old gentleman.” Yet the
advertising evangelists, when they
are urging people to come and be
salvaged, represent Him as infi-
nitely merciful. If the religious
press still clings to the “God-fear-
ing” insult, the daily press at least
might drop it. It seems to
belong to the far-back time
when Christianity was the religion of
slaves who lived more or less in a perpetual
state of terror, and the Allseeing was sup-
posed to personally “lay for” every unlucky
sinner with various afflictions. The pro-
strate attitude of mind engendered by such
beliefs has held up such good worldly works
as the modern medical crusade against
syphilis. The “God-fearer” should be out of
date by now.
A Melbourne accountant has just received
a three years’ sentence for embezzlement, the
total- shortage being £3OOO to £4OOO. Some
30 years ago his father was a well-known
solicitor in a leading Western District (Vic.)
town. One morning he had his breakfast
as usual, said good-bye in a casual fashion,
and departed for his office a few streets away.
He was never seen again. The whole dis-
trict was stunned when it was found out that
some of the biggest adjacent squatters had
been rooked for large sums. The Melbourne
accountant was his youngest son. Shortage
is hereditary, like phthisis. In proof thereof
witness the public debt, which is handed
down from one generation to another.
JUDICIAL SEPARATION.
DOUBTFUL WITNESS: “I have been wedded to Truth from my youth upwards.”
CYNICAL JUDGE: “ Ah ! And how long have you been divorced?”
“Croson’s” protest:—
It is only the other day that a Melbourne husband
was shown to have placed his too-regularly-inebriated
wife in a South Yarra “home” for six months, with
the idea that the healthful discipline of the washtub
would do her good. ' The Court elicited, simultane-
ously, that the managers of the Home believed they
were legally entitled to forcibly detain the lady on
the husband’s authority. An even more amazing
narrative has just emanated from St. liilda Court,
where Mrs. Tapscott sued her husband for mainten-
ance for herself and her four babies. Tapscott is an
alcoholic plumber. Nevertheless he successfully
stalled the wolf off the family doorstep until last
December. At this stage Beer got the
mastery. Still, he managed from time to time to
send his wife various sums. Then his mother and
sister took a hand, and incontinently shoved him
into the Inebriate Asylum at Lara for six months—
and without troubling to tell his wife either. Even
after he was committed these relatives didn’t con-
descend to inform the lady most concerned, and it
was only after he had been away five weeks that she
discovered what had happened to him, and where
he was. In the meantime, the wife had to keep
herself and four small children. The St. Hilda beaks
inspected Tapscott, and learning that he was legally
a prisoner in the custody of the Master-in-Lunacy,
adjourned the case in order that more light might be
shed on it. It is the sort of case that calls for a
lot of light. If the existing law allows two women,
with no shadow of legal control over, or legal claim
on a man, to have him secluded at Lara without the
consent or even the knowledge of those dependent on
him, it is high time that law was passed down and
out. Meanwhile it would be pleasing to learn how
many more compulsory inmates Lara possesses, and
who put them there, and why, and for how long, and
all about them.
* * * *
Years ago, before the specially-built ambu-
lance cart and its trained and uniformed
attendants became a clanging commonplace
of the Sydney traffic, the unfortunate who
happened to'be bowled over in the street was
lifted into the first available vehicle and
trotted off to the hospital. Then the ambu-
lance service was organised, and sympa-
thisers with the fallen were imploi'ed not
to transport them roughly to the doctors,
but to wait patiently for the First Aid men
and their special chariot. The idea is good;
but (1) there are not many ambulance wag-
gons; (2) what there are seem to be kept
fairly busy shifting invalids; and (3) Syd-
ney is a very crowded and awkward city
to get round or through. The result is that
the street victim has often to wait and bleed
longer than he used to in the old rougli-but-
ready days. The other night the writer
saw an old man, whose arm had been taken
off by an electric tram, waiting many preci-
ous minutes for his regulation vehicle, while
available lorries, motors and carts passed by
the place where he lay. It was one of
those desperately urgent surgical cases where
a few minutes might mean all the difference
between life and death. Two days later,
the daily paper mentioned briefly that the
old man had died. Still he went to the hos-
pital in style. #
The Oldest Inhabitant writes about an inn
and a few sundries :
Another bit of Sydney city property belonging to
the poor Cooper family comes on the market in
May—the south-east corner of Bathurst and George
streets, with a big frontage to the latter street, which
takes in seven freehold lots, including the Crystal
Palace Picture Theatre. The site is an historic bit
of old Sydney, inasmuch as that on the corner,
in many years gone by, was the Australian Brewery,
run by James Wright, and in close proximity to
Talbot Inn, from which started coaches “for the
country.” “The country” then meant Parramatta and
Windsor.
There may be no truth in the statement
that Jeremiah Strongleman (aged 80) died
of ill-usage in the Sal, Army Home at Pak-
enham (Vic.), but there is just sufficient
suspicion about the matter to create an im-
pression that there is no joy in being an
“inmate” aged 80. And the possession of a
name like Jeremiah Strongleman is about
the last straw on the back of the camel of
misfortune.
A WAIL FROM PENTRIDGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Harry Lauder went to Pentridge prison last Friday
and entertained the male convicts for two hours.
—News item.
Me name is Dicky Dolbird, and I’m a-doin’ time
For makin’ of me livin’ by committin’ of a crime:
And ’ere in peaceful Pentridge I was easy for a spell,
For the simple life in chokee used to suit me fairly
well,
When a Scotch bloke —-’Arry Lauder —wif a bloomin’
toonful voice,
Bein’ under the himpression that ’e’d make our
’earts rejoice,
Come and sings us songs of boozin’ and the ’eather
and the trees,
And the tarts that sez “Don’t tickle!” w’en you get
’em on your knees,
And of ’ow ’e felt so jolly w’en ’e brekfusted in bed.
Well, ever since he done it, I’ve been wishin’ I
was dead.
I can bear it w’en the parson talks of Paridise and
things,
An’ tells me that I’ll one day be a flappin’ snowy
wings.
For there ain’t no earthly comforts in the world he
prates abowt,
An’ he doesn’t leave me pantin’ wif me tongue a-
hanging owt.
But Lauder’s songs, Gawd ’elp me! filled me up wif
vain regret,
Me throat is parched wif longin,’ and me blanky
cheeks is wet,
For the whisky, an’ the feedin’, an’ the sorcy little
dears
That no bloke ought to think of w’en ’e’s doin’
seven years.
When McNab left off a cuddlin’ the braw lassie ’e
’ad wed,
An’ begun to squeeze a bottle—oh, I wished as I
wos dead.
* * * *
At last this ’Arry Lauder got ’em singin’ all they
knew,
Just as if we’d Dock and Dorissed, and was feelin’
“fou the noo.”
My ’eart was full to burstin’, and me brain was in
a w’irl
As I thought abowt me sentence, an’ me own dear
little girl.
The Dock was wot I stood in w’en me Doris caught
me heye
And shouted: “Buck up, Dicky! We’ll be married
by-an’-bye.”
That drinkin’ song at partin’ was the ’ardest blow
to bear,
It burst me up completely, an’ it left me in despair.
I meant to serve me sentence like a game ’un, on
me ’ead,
But I’m weepin’ like a babby, an’ I wishes I was
dead.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


Housewives discovered non-union
stores, and the position became serious.
Grocers, who at first seized the oppor-
tunity to increase prices and profits on
the pretext of an advance In wages, soon
realised that their trade was disappear-
ing. They met in conference in the dif-
ferent suburbs, and, ns an outcome of
the deliberations, a decision not to ob-
serve in Into the association’s prices was
arrived at.
It is the intention of Melbourne Cl tv
Council to obtain control of the old rente
tery at West Melbourne, in order to use
« small ,i«rlioii for market purposes.
—Age.
Eyicie^A.
9°4d
y°^
l 's°f^ :— Qot~
\ tfie f taj at" Wf * See
Retail grocer - ! ! tf/e
Revved List" died oj-
rjon Union C°iT>j>efPf7on
5. I Well * *
Jinnee l oj itfe
Grocery (jon?Vi»7e % but'
private
1 didnt"". I gladly,
So to Spe&K
W d C°oK - -This little cabinet - contains my Liberal
Policy wbid, lshi.ll reveal io an
t £«"<»-»>l Electrons -nil tfom 1., <,
Will Keebifie W Cohered
young Aws G*y n \ WW you 'ta.Ke *w*y clotfi -s«*>'/(
be under it?
In the opinion of the Chief Secretary
the Premiers’ Conferences have an ac-
tual value, and Mr. Elmslie, the leader
of the State labor Party. Is quite wrong
when he attacks them.
Mr. Higgs protested against the four-
da.v Parliamentary week on the ground
that members of his party are otherwise
overworked by correspondence ami
caucus meetings. Mr. Bruce Smith wus
even more pathetic, and be solemnly
warned the Government that "men of
substance" would soon And it impossible
to engage in public life unless steps were
taken to endow legislators with a larger
leisure.
(Ase)
Ij' Joe C®ok
Jo overwork
%S like
Vs >v?*]ority oJ"
L 1 Will S®o« 1?« Only
V TiaJJ' Ivy
0* sb^ow
!— Pr£mi er\ ConPe K f»j
*>? Elrvjjlie provide
A*>d r«« re&Ji ©** ones worK jvi Tetesv
VICTORIAN VIEWS.


THE MILK-WHITE FLAG.
Mr. Stanley F. Allen, described as “Hon. Sec., Australian Freedom League, Sydney Counell," has written to the press stating that: "If our young nation chooses to act in
a fair, upright, honorable way towards other Powers there will be no need for such a system (compulsory military training). It is thus explained to us that if any trouble arises
we must be to blame, as nobody ever does anything wrong except ourselves.
Mr. Allen is here represented as dwelling in the white house of a blameless life. The flag is intended to imply that he is inside
and actively employed in living up to his principles.


Martin s I ills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
GAELIC WHISKY
is now supplied in the
NEW PATENT NON-REFILLABLE
GUARANTEE BOTTLE.
The characteristics of GREAT
AGE, PURITY and QUALITY
have been most carefully pre-
served.
Agents: ORME, KEIGWJNSCO.Ltd.
269-271 George Street, Sydney.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY,
HATS.
For
DURABILITY,
NABOB BOOT PASTE..
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS <& WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydjn^y a [i
>N
EVERY DAY
snore people arc proving that
LUX
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes..
r
?.'/vM 7 '
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SVDNEV,
PERSONAL
ITEMS
S.A.'S. NEW "X," SIR HENRY
GALWAY, Etc.
“Siren’s” note: —
Died suddenly on May 2, W. G. Todd, a victim of
the big Sydney ferry strike of 1913. Todd was
manager of the Sydney Ferries Co. at the time, and
being a militant individual set out to smash up oppo-
sition. In his enthusiasm he misled the directors as
to the weakness of the co.’s position. An inglorious
capitulation followed after a few days’ fight Todd
felt the defeat keenly, and left the co. He wasn’t in
good health then, and his bad health never became
much better afterwards.
M.L. House of Reps, will lose a conspicu-
ous figure in June when its present Clerk
Henry Otterson, retires. He will then be
o», and will have completed 44 years in the
Parliament’s service. He joined in 1870 as
a committee clerk, and two years later was
made reader. In 1875 he became second
assistant clerk, and in 1889 first assistant.
In 1898 he became Clerk of the House, and
has held down that billet ever since.
After that silly display which Monsieur
Guillaux, the French flying man, gave at
Newcastle, when he pretended to be drop-
ping his machine on a compllny of cadets, it
is proposed that he should be known as
Giddyox.
“Nemo” :
Cabled that two of the “chamberlains of-cape and
sword ’ on duty at the Vatican during the previous
week were William Humphrey Page, Knight Com-
mander of St. Gregory, and Alexander Itawlinson,
Knight of St. Gregory. They were well known in
social circles in Australia a decade ago, more especi-
ally in Tasmania, where they settled for a time, and
where their bosom friend and fellow-Komanist, Vis-
count Gormanston, was Governor. Page had been a
Judge in India. Rawlinson was nothing in. particular.
They both had money and charming manners, and
were in consequence popular. Page lisped, whereas
Rawlinson didn’t. They and Gormanston were familiar
figures at mass, vespers, benediction and I don’t
know what else in the old cathedral at Hobart.
Rawlinson now lives in Rome. Page has settled down
in Bruges (Belgium)—his son having become a
Jesuit priest. Gormanston is dead. Which about
exhausts the human interest of the trio.
HE FRIES, Minister of
Railways, Maoriland.
Francis Bathurst Suttor, President of
the Legislative Council, celebrated his
75th • birthday on April 30. He was born at
Brucedale, in the Bathurst (N.S.W.) dis-
trict ; is a son of W. H. Suttor and grandson
of George Suttor, who was the protegd of
Joseph Banks, and the friend of Governor
Bligh. As a side line he has established
something of a record as a parliamentarian,
having been in one or other House, with a
short interval, for about 40 years. lie held
ministerial office for 12 years, and served in
seven Cabinets—Parkes (Ist), Parkes
(2nd.), Jennings, Dibbs (2nd.), Dibbs
(3rd), Lyne and See.
Cabled news of George Doughty’s death in
England was a matter of interest to many
people hereabouts, especially in Melbourne.
The knighted Doughty, M.P., married
Eugenia Stone, who formerly wrote the Mel-
bourne woman’s letter for The Bulletin.
He was a shipowner in the fish trade, and
he represented Grimsby in the House of
Commons, where he was accepted as an able
speaker on the subjects nearest to his pocket.
At the time of his marriage to Miss Stone,
some seven years ago, George Doughty was
said to be already an ancient person, but
the cable message stated that he died in his
60th year.
An old Mrs. Lauder who died in South
Melbourne the other day, was a pal of Adam
Lindsay Gordon when she was a girl. Her
father, John Bright, gave young Gordon a
billet' on his station in the Long Desert
(S.A.), and the newchum told the family
how he come to be packed off to Australia
from Cotswold, England. As a student at a
military college he was promised the mount
on a horse that had been backed for a prin-
cipal event at an amateur race meeting. The
owner of the gee gave orders that it was not
to be started, but Gordon took it from its
stable and won the race. The owner and a
policeman were waiting for him when he dis-
mounted, and the “horse stealing” incident
ended in Gordon being exported as a bad egg.
“A.H.A.”: The late Argyll was the only
duke that I ever mistook for a waiter. He
was a good waiter, too. I happened to be
invited' down to Windsor with a Maoriland
Coronation contingent, who were the guests
of the Windsor Fusiliers, or Royal Busby
Guards, or something equally swagger. There
was the usual lunch, and my party
found itself at a side table, in a mixed com-
pany of Maoriland and British officers,
titled ladies and a lord or two. My friend
and I were doing ourselves well when we
noticed that the waiter had overlooked us
with the wine. A small, insignificant, ex-
ceedingly busy waiter was doing his hurried
best to keep the glasses full. I beckoned
him and hinted at champagne. He rushed
for a new bottle and sprinted back, filled
our glasses with a practised hand.' and fled
to other thirsty visitors. When the toasts
began, I noticed that the waiter was seated
on the chairman’s left and that gorgeous
individual or personage or popinjay
began his speech with “Your Grace,
ladies and gentlemen.” Later, when the
waiter rose, he made the finest speech at the
luncheon. In fact, it was the most sensible
speech I have ever heard a waiter or a Grace
deliver.
“Jeames”: Sydney Sun headed its cabled
references to last week’s proceedings against
Crosland and Lord Alfred Douglas “Earl and
Author.” Sydney Telegraph went one
better next morning by cross-heading its
cable on the subject “Charge against a Peer.”
Also it referred to Douglas throughout as
Douglas.” The stormy son of Oscar
■Wilde’s enemy and ultimate destroyer is not
an Earl, and he is not a Peer; nor is he
Lord Douglas. The only person with a right
to the latter title is the Earl of Home. If I
referred to the Premier of N. S. Wales as
Mayor Holman there would be cries of deri-
sion. and were I to term Hugh I). Mclntosh
the Dean of Stadium I should find ridicule
heaped upon me in large quantities. Why
isn’t the same standard applied in other
respects? The absence of it casts over the
metropolitan newspapers something of the
atmosphere of the cheaper Yankee rags.
By the Court Reporter:—
It is mentioned casually in the papers that the
just deceased Duke of Argyll left no direct heirs. lie
married (amid great surprise! Louise, fourth daugh-
ter of Victoria I. Now in the gospel of Court eti-
quette it is legitimate for a British royalty to marry
any other kind of royalty, provided the latter isn’t a
colored heathen. (This etiquette isn’t quite so strenuous
as it was, but it is still fairly awful ) The husband
may be desperately poor—thus the Battenberg whom
Princess Beatrice Wedded was reported to have been
reduced to cleaning his own boots—but he ought to
come of a line which wore some species of a crown.
He may he dethroned, but if his family was once
on any kind of .a throne he is ,still more or less
eligible. Germany was cut up into about 2000
kingdoms of one sort or another till Napoleon I.
made an unholy smash of them, and the descendants
of the 2000 more-or-less kings still have the shadow
of the old glory about them. Even now there are
25 States in Germany, and the smallest potentate Of
the lot, Henry 24th of Reuss, governs 122 square
miles of country, with a population of ?3,000.
Royalties are more common than beer in Germany,
and that country supplies an inexhaustible reservoir
when a husband is wanted for the tenth
daughter or a wife for the 14th son of
a very abundant royal family. But the
Argylls, though they trace their pedigree much
further back, than the present British reigning family,
and could'bpy uo all the Battenbergs before break-
fast, royal. There was .an . old kingdom of
Argyll, but the ancestors of the .present gang weren’t
kings there. There are still • dreadful, impoverished,
no-account MacDougals earning their bread in the
cheap suburbs of,; Glasgow and Edinburgh who can
look down on the'Campbells of Argyll in the matter
of royal pedigree. So there was great excitement
when the deceased "Duke, who was then Marquis of
Lorne, - was mentioned as a husband for Princess
Louise. But, so the lsgend went at the time, the
Court; doctors had certified that Louise could never be
a mother, and that smoothed the way. The degrada-
tion of mixing royal and non-royal blood would only
last through one lifetime. The pair were married
and lived ...happily ever afterwards for all that any-
body can *'sh6w to the contrary. But, after that, the
Victorian Court resumed its old, unflinching atti-
tude, a,nd' .Princess *. Beatrice became the wife of
Battenberg., He came of a, line which had ruled oyer
a selection,’ and he was, a Mumble! crushed person
who knew his place. His place was on the hardest
chair, andithe one nearest the door. Perhaps it was
through \ye|i-iness of the hard chair and the draught
that he went away on a sudden military expedition
to Africa, where, he died.
G. P. FITZ-
GERALD, of
Hobart.
Peacock, of t the Victorian State Ministry,
told a country audience recently that in his
youth he humped .a , gr'qcer’s basket 11 hours
a day for Bs. a'week. Which explains his
awful Laugh. Peacock’s Laugh must be his
fiendish methqd of revenging himself upon
society for the wrongs inflicted on him when
he was a grocer’s boy.
John Alfred Northmore, K.C., has been
appointed to the vacancy on the Westralian
Supreme Court Bench. He is a native of
South Australia, and served his articles and
took his LL.B. degree in Adelaide. He be-
gan practice in Westralia in 1896, and en-
tered into partnership with the late F. W.
Moorhead, who was raised to the Bench,
when paralysis had got hold of him and he
was unable to stand. There are other
things to Northmore’s credit, but this is a
busy week.
LOW COMPANY.
Mr. Joseph Cook makes haste to kudos Mr. Holman
for refusing to submit to what he calls the tyranny
of the Caucus. Mr. Cook should be the last man to
be heard finding excuses for Mr. Holman’s attitude.
Sydney Telegraph.
MRS. VELLYGRAPH: “Now, listen to me, young
Joe; you must learn to be'ave yusself! If
I cops you playin' wiv that narsty 'Olman
kid again I'll break yer somethin ’ neck! ”
Edwin Smith, Adelaide’s grand old man
(or one of them), has had to resist almost
by force a plan to pay him the stupendous
compliment of erecting a statue while he
lives to see it. The plan originated with
the Commercial Travellers —he is president
of the Australasian Association —but would
have been carried out with enthusiasm by
the many athletic bodies he has been good
to, and public bodies of all sorts. (Just as a
side-line, he was Mayor of Adelaide five
times, and in Parliament over 30 years.)
However, he vetoed the idea, and it has been
dropped. The dailies remark approvingly
that the Exhibition, the Torrens lake, the
Victoria Square and a few other such
achievements are all the monument he
needs. Still Ed. Smith should have given
way. It is something to get out of the
rut. There was a Persian king who put
up a world’s record by being crowned before
he was born. It would be an equally re-
markable record to be the only man—above
all the only Smith —who had a statue
erected to him, against his will, before he
died.
Adelaide has at last lost the amazing
veteran, T. S. Reed, who was born three
years after Waterloo, lived a fair average
life (48 years) in England, was then sent
out to Australia with lungs “hopelessly”
affected, and put in another 48 here! He
was in daily work till the end, as secretary
to the Geographical Society of S.A., and
used no glasses. Every summer (including
the one just ended) he went on a fishing
trip. His memory was full of distin-
guished names. Among folk he had met
were Kossuth, Rowland Hill, Whewell,
Brunei, Leech, Dickens, Thackeray, Grisi,
Mario, Jenny Lind, Douglas Jerrold,
Nathaniel Hawthorne and Napoleon 111.
One of his pet claims was that, as
a link between the centuries, he could
get back to the execution of Charles
I. in three lives. His grandfather, whom
he remembered well, was born in 1730, and
there was then living a man who had seen
the king beheaded in 1649. A more prac-
tical link with the past which he treasured
was a bit of the skin of Queen Katharine
Parr, presented to him by some good-natured
ghoul who had been present at the opening of
her grave in Westminster Abbey. There .
ought to be a law against this habit of steal-
ing queens’ skins.
HUERTA’S APPEAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
President Huerta has appealed to the rebels to
unite against the American invasion. —Press item.
QUEENSLAND.
Carranza on the land,
And Sam upon the sea ;
I guess that things appear
A trifle warm for me.
So, rebels, here you have
Huerta’s manly paw ;
I 'only beg you help
To smite the Yankee jaw!
II do not beg you take
The mincing paths of peace,
JBut, merely for the nonce,
From civil strife to cease;
-Abstain for half a jiff
From shedding brothers’ blood,
Until the Yank you biff,
As surely patriots should ;
And when he’s belted home,
And finds his grab was vain—
Then Viva—for our Land,
And “At it —boys!” again!
From rolling Rio Grande
To Vera Cruz the gay,
We’ll start with much eclat
A fresh, fraternal fray;
For, though we’d joy to spank
The Gringo for his greed.
Yet, when we’ve downed the Yank
Our brother has his need.
And so I’d make it clear
To all the Aztec brood
That things like foreign war
Are but an interlude.
And so the sooner we
Drive this invader back,
The sooner shall we take
The blood-stained local track.
And by our streams that flow
With Aztec blood amain
The nations round shall know—
Our Land’s Herself Again!
PHILANDER F.


j
I i
/ /
\/f ,
BELWOOD
SMOKING .MIXTURE
V.-
/ / ./,»M,<y v.\ t
m
ms
02
I l
wpSR.O WILLS
II I M
Nj'/v i I»
AUSTRALIA) L-H* SYDNEY
X'/
a>
TL
prai
/.kS'U-Us;,
' ,/Crf
''sSJuKl'J'f dfc.
<■ .
&
// smm
l-n
m
m
Mk
m
f
J
/
f
fa-,. ..
] F you’re one of those
men who’ve been looking
for a “biteless”
tobacco— try
Its a new mixture —a finer, cooler,
sweeter smoke than you’ve puffed for
many a long day. It really is different and
better to my thinking. Don’t judge it till you’ve
tried it. THEN you’ll know —even as I know.
Bel wood Mixture is in tins —air-tight and fresh
packed. Of all tobacconists —medium strength.
W. D. and H. O. WILLS.


!Mi!2i s Woodworking Machinery § Engineers’Tools
COVENTRY CHAINS FOR MOTOR LORRIES.
Kindly let us have your enquiries. “ INGECO ” FARM ENGINES.
SIMPSON BROS., 32-34 Clarence Street Sydney.
BUCYRUiS CO. Milwaukee
Steam Shovels, Drag Line Excavators.
Sole Agents-WILLIAM ADAMS (Sb COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane* Portia.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Colonial Sugar Refining 00.
'(Sydney)
Reserves
(not in-
cluding
£500,000
Depre-
Net To Re- ciation
Profits. Dividends. serves. Fund).
£ £ £ £
Mar., ’@6.. 112,042 Wp.c,= 110,000 2,042 418,453
Sept., ’06.. 111,679 10 „ ~110,000 1,679 420,132
Mar., ’07.. 110,827 10 „ ~110,000 827 420.959
Sept, ’07.. 118,057 10 ~ ~110,000 8,057 429,016
£75,000 of reserves capitalised . . 354,016
Mar.. ’OB.. 134,782 10 p.c.= 124,037 10,745 364,761
Sept., ’OB.. 146,493 10 ~ ~124,885 21,608 386,369
£350,000 of reserves capitalised . . 36,369
Mar., ’09.. 162,632 10 p.c.= 142,500 20,132 56,501
Sept., ’09.. 168,881 10 „ ~142,500 26,381 82,882
Mar., ’lO.. 175,590 10 „ ~142,500 33,090 115,972
Sept., ’lO.. 196,714 10 „ ~142,500 54,214 170,186
£150.000 of reserves capitalised .. 20,186
Mar., ’ll.. 207,428 10p.c.= 150,000 57,428 77,614
Sept., ’ll.. 210,830 11 „ ~165,000 45,830 123,444
Mar., ’12.. 225,601 12) „ ~187,500 38,101 161,645
Sept., ’12.. 229,629 12) „ ~187,500 42,129 203,674
Mar., ’13.. 233,530 12) „ ~187,500 46,030 249,704
£250,000 of reserves capitalised ..) coma
Sept., ’l3. . 255,440 121 p.c.= 203,125 52,315 (
IMar., ’14.. 263,761 12) „ ~203,125 60,636 112,655
Since the Australian Labor party started to stir up
matters in connection with the C.S.R. and insist that
'there were only two classes out of whom the com-
pany was making its vast profits—the consumers and
ithe farmers—-the directors have adopted the new sys-
tem of distinguishing between the profits made in
•and out of Australia. For the past six months the
'total figures are cut up this way: Profit made in Aus-
tralia, £133.761 ; ditto in Fiji and Maoriland,
£130,000. Of course, this paper accepts the figures,
although the management might have some difficulty
in convincing, say, Justice Higgins that the division
iis anything but quite arbitrary. If they wanted to
•do it the directors could perhaps make the Australian
profit £183,761, and show as good reason for it.
For once in a way the invariably doleful directors
•admit that things are not absolutely rotten. “The
•output of sugar, both in Australia and Fiji, far ex-
ceeded that of any previous year....No change in
■prices has taken place. . . .prospects for next season
:are, on the whole, satisfactory.” However it would
be amazing butter in which the C.S.R. management
•could not find a cockroach. Though the Australian
and Fiji crops were a record the Commonwealth
imulishly refused to stuff itself with extra sweets
'in the interests of this company. Consequently as
there is still some sugar imported from Java,
•etc., the C.S.R. had to carry over some of its
'stock. And some of the Fiji bumper production
which Maoriland also inconsiderately refused to absorb
ihad to be sent to Hongkong. This year also the co.
threatens to be harassed by excessively good crops,
with the distressing result that it has been able to
•make contracts to supply Canada with some of its
•requirements. Prices realised for these over-sea ship-
ments are admitted to have been satisfactory. Never-
theless “the large production in Cuba is now tend-
ing to depress values in the world’s markets.”
For the half-year a record profit of £263,761 is
'shown. These are the net earnings. How much is
provided for the replacement of depreciating assets it
is impossible to say. Some years ago the company’s
'policy was to build up a visible depreciation fund,
but when it reached half a million the new practice
was adopted of writing down assets, which means
that the provision for replacement is now hidden.
'The capital is £3.250,000, which includes £825,000
presented to shareholders by way of bonuses during
the past 74 years. The 12) p.c. dividend therefore
means to the bulk of the shareholders something more
substantial than that. Not, of course, that the bulk
•of the shareholders get more than 12) p.c. on their
investment, for in spite of the threats of Governments
and the tears and gloomy forebodings of the managing
•Jeremiahs the market puts these shares in the most
Iheavily gilt-edged class, and reckons that a return
•of 5) p.c. on the market price is quite sufficient. The
size of the undertaking can be reckoned up from the
ifact that stocks of sugar at 31st March stood at
£1,138,941. Another aspect is presented by the fact
•that the employees’ provident fund now takes totals
£200,383. The company may know how to squeeze
'both ways, but it at least knows how to very well
treat its salaried agents who do the squeezing.
According to one yarn, told by people who
•ought to know something, the Swifts, who are put-
ting a quarter of a million into meat works in
Brisbane, are not Yankee, so far at least as their
financing is concerned. That, according to this
story, is done by the cosmopolitan Rothschilds. This
•doesn’t make things any better for one lot of Aus-
tralians—the fire and marine insurance people. It
makes things rather worse, in fact. There are no
American fire insurance offices in Australia, and with
only American money in the meat business the Aus-
tralian offices might have had a cut. Hitherto
the Australian meat cos. have been, on the whole,
good Australians in this respect, and most of their
policies have been Australian. The Rothschildren, how-
ever, have a fire and marine insurance office of their
own, trading in Australia under a well-known Eng-
lish name—which probably explains whv Australian
offices are getting quite as cold a reception as Aus-
tralian beef and mutton will have presently. Car-
cases are not the only things that will be frozen
stiff when the foreign exploiters are ready.
Colonial Bank of Australasia
(Melbourne)
Oivs. on To Re- Re-
Profits. All Shares. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Sept., ’05.. 18,314 5 p.c. = 10,977 7,337 85,773
Mar., 06.. 19.405 5 „ „ 10,982 8,423 94 196
Sept., ’06.. 19,578 6 „ „ 13,178 6.400 100’,596
Mar 07. .22,086 6 „ ~13,178 8.908 109,504
Sept., 07.. 19,532 6 „ ~13,178 6,354 115,858
Mar 08.. 23,205 6„ „ 13,178 10,027 125,885
Sept., 08.. 23,501 6 „ „ 13,178 10,323 136,208
Provident Fund vote, £lO.OOO .. 126,208
« lar r )nn' " 7 p.c. = 1.5,375' 7,335 133,543
Sept., ’09.. 1.9,293 7 „ ~ 15,375 3,918 137,461
a Ial C a' ’ no’t 17 l ” ” 15 ’ 375 3,042 145,503
Sept., 10.. 23,509 7 „ „ 15,375 8,134 153,637
ar ." , 77 -' 23,<08 7 „ ~ 15,375 8,333 161,970
Sept., ’ll.. 24,626 7 „ ~15,375 9,251 171,221
Mar., 12.. 27,864 7 ~ ~ 15,375 12.489 183,710
?r Pt ” H’ 932 l” ” 15 > 375 12,557 196,267
Mar., 13.. 28,002 7 ~ „ 15,375 12,625 208,894
Premises written down. £5OOO .. 203 894
Sept., ’13.. 28,110 7 p.c.= 15,375 12,735 216,629
Mag., 14.. 28,231 7,, „ 15,375 13,856 229,485
Premises written down, £5OOO . . 224,485
Under the scheme by which the affairs of the bank
were arranged after the financial riot of the early
90’s, the preference shares’ prior claims to their cut
out of capital in the event Of liquidation ceases on
the payment of 14 half-yearly dividends of 7 p.c.
There are three more to pay. Then prefs. and ordin-
aries will rank alike except that the prefs. will have
first claim to a 5 p.c. dividend. At present 7 p,c.
all round is earned with ease; the surplus profits iff
excess of the dividend were sufficient to pay another
6 p.c. The premises account is, however, very
weighty for a bank of this size, and the management
is dropping into a very good habit 'Of writing it
down out of the undivided earnings, deposits and
other liabilities total £4,439-,46&. The feash, bullion
and other liquid resources amount to £2,078,787.
That Is to Say, the bank holds 46.9 p.c. of its liabili-
ties in liquid Shapes. There have been times when it
seemed to this Ipaqmr that the Colonial was not main-
taining a sufficient proportion of cash and securities as
good as caSh. But no complaint at all can now be
■made on that score; 46 p.c. allows of a very fair
margin for the expansion of business. From another
point of view the position is reasonably good: in all
the bank owes £4. while the capital and re-
serves, which ate the funds that insure the creditors’
money, amount to £663,765. Pretty well everything,
of course, depends upon the securities in which the
advances and other funds have been invested. You
cannot tell merely by looking at a balance-sheet
whether Brown is good for the overdraft of £15,000
which lie has been lucky enough to get. The only
test possible is as to the profits earned on the basis of
capital and reserves combined. If year in ahd year
out they are somewhere about 8 p.c. or more it is
reasonable io assume that the securities are hdt geft-
erally overvalued. In this case here are the figures
for the past four years:—
Profits as Compared with Shareholders’ Funds.
Mar., 1910 £8 2 4 p.c. Sept., 1912 £8 19 4 p.c.
Sept., 1910 8 0 „ Mar., 1913 8 16 3 ~
Mar., 1911 8 ® <0 „ Sept., 1913 815 0 „
Sept., 1911 8 310 „ Mar., 1914 812 2 „
Mar., I'9i2 9 2 6 „
Though there is a decrease in the bank’s earnings
compared witii recent years, the rate is still very re-
spectable, and seems to suggest that the bank has
very few of the old boom assets left on hand.
The next table shows some of the details that have
already been dealt with in a general way:—
Liabilities.
March,’l3. March,’l4.
Notes in
circulation .. £22,054 £20,163 Dec., £1,891
Bills in
circulation . . 311,817 392,980 Inc., 81,163
Free deposits . . 1,687,364 1,723,788 Inc., 36,424
Deposits at
interest .. 2,404,689 2,302,538 Dec., 102,151
Assets.
Liquid assets . . 2,031,016 2,078,788 Inc., 47,772
Advances.. .. 2,851,559 2,845,215 Dec., 6,344
Premises, etc. . . 202,909 195,606 Dec., 7,303
Thus, though £65,727 of deposits have been with-
drawn during the year, the bank has called in only
£6344 of advances—or of course the cash may have
come in by its own volition. That is comforting
for the bank’s clients, who can now feel that the
bank needn’t call on them at an awkward time
should there be a sudden demand on it for cash.
Burns, Piiilp and Co., Limited (Syd-
ney), ship-owners, South Sea Island traders, mer-
chants, etc.: —•
Writ- Added
ten to Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1902.. 58,076 8 p.c.=22,000 36,076 255,112
1903.. 60,775 8 „ „ 22,000 38,775 293,887
1904.. 41,900 8 „ „ 24,000 12,372 5,528 299,415
1905.. 44,586 8 ~ „ 24,000 20,586 320,001
1906.. 43,276 8 „ „ 24,000 19,276 339,277
1907.. 55,637 10 „ „ 30,000 20,000 5,637 344,914
1908.. 69,787 10 „ „ 30,0Q0 10,000 29,787 374,701
1909.. 54,915 10 „ ~30,000 24,915 399,616
1910.. 70,167 10 „ „ 30,000 15,000 25,167 424,783
1911.. 79,890 10 „ „ 30,000 49,890 474,673
£350,000 of reserves transferred to capital 124,673
1912.. 99,704 5 p.c.=35,000 64,704 189,377
Cash bonus of 7| p.c., £52,500 .. .. 136,877
1913.. 109,389 5 p.c;=40,000 69,389 206,:’.;
Cash bonus of 5 p.c., £40,000 . . . . 166,266
1914.. 115,401 6i p.c.=62,500 52,901 219,167
This very energetic company has made large changes
in its capital account during the past few years,
partly, no doubt, because it was finding good use for
more money, partly because the extra cautious man-
agement knows that a 5 p.c. dividend is likely to
attract much less hostile attention than one of 25 p.c.
For a long while the capital stood at £300,000. In
1911-12 it was increased to £700,000, power being also
taken to work it up to £2,000,000. In the following
year the paid capital was brought to £BOO,OOO.
During the past year 200,000 more £1 shares were
issued at par, and of the £200,000 thus required a
present was made to shareholders of £40,000. Of
the £700,000 of capital added during the past
two years £442,500 has been supplied out of the
accumulated profits of the companv. The declared
policy of the directors is to give further strength to
the somewhat depleted reserves by strictly limiting
the rate of dividend. The idea is understood to be
that for many years to come the dividend should not
amount to more than one-half of the total profit.
The rate for the past year, .6-} p.c., is really, some-
what in excess of that figure inasmuch as it is paid
on the full £1,000,000 for the whole 12 months,
although the last instalment of 10s. of the new issue
was only payable on Ist January, 1914.
The next table shows what has been done with
the new capital:—
Liabilities.
1900. 1905. 1910. 1913. 1914.
£ £ £ £ £
Capital .. 275,000 300.000 300,000 800,000 1,000,000
Reserves .. 213,346 344,001 479,783 258,766 294,667
Other debts 222,294 167,334 195,435 209,508 273,974
Assets.
Properties.. 144,679 171,000 155,000 149,000 155,000
Shipping .. 72,707 110,600 168,485 211,140 270,280
Book debts 197,233 215,748 245,011 340,713 392,032
Stock .. 186,881 164,318 180,551 244,252 238,648
Cash and in-
vestments 71,447 74,827 84,340 137,306 227,019
Other assets 37,693 74,842 141,831 185,802 285,661
Liabilities have increased a little, but still amount to
only £273,974, which is moderate for a trading com-
pany of this size with a shipbuilding programme in
hand. Ship property appears to be written down very
hard, which is another way of saying that the true
profits are most likely considerably in excess of the
figures shown in the table. The item stands at
£270,280 —as said just now, very small when the
size of the Mataram and Montoro, the new vessels
in the Java-Singapore service, is taken into account.
When the company launched out into vessels of this
kind for the East-Indian and Singapore trade, it
seemed doubtful whether they could maintain the high
rate of profits hitherto shown by the company’s old
Pacific Islands business. There has, however, been
an extraordinary development of the trade in flour
and sundries, including tourists, with Java and the
other human ant-heaps in the north, and the usual
honorable understanding with the Dutch Co. has
helped matters. One way and another, 8., P. might
therefore have got along very well even if they had
not dipped into shareholders’ pockets at all. Anyhow,
since 1910 there has been an increase of nearly
£150,000 in cash and share investments. One of these
investments is understood to be a considerable holding
in the Queensland Insurance Co., which in its cradle
days was practically a branch of 8., P.’s. This now
entirely independent co. has made very long strides
and its shares are at a lofty premium. But the
chances are that very properly the Burns, Philp
balance-sheet takes no account of that premium. If
this is so then there is another item among the assets
whose market value is very considerably above book
value.
* * ♦ *
The Bank of Adelaide (S. Austrd.Ua) :
To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. sferVes.
1899-.. £33,026 7 Ip.c. = £28,06D £5,026 £180,988
1900. 8 „■„ 32,000 6,413 187,401
1901. . 48,097 8 ~ „ 32,000 16,097 203,498
1902.. 45,925 8 y, •„ 32,000 13,925 217,423
1903.. 52,317 8 y, „ 32,000 2 1 0-,317 237,740
1904.. 47,337 8 „ „ 32,000 15,337 253,077
1905.. 47,876 8 32,000 15,876 268,953
1906.. 46,286 ,8 y, „ 32,000 14,286 283,239
1967 . . 56,265 8l y, •„ 34,000 22;265 305,504
1908.. 56,510 9 ~,, 36,000 20,510 326,014
1969.. 52,694 91 „ „ 38,000 14,691 340,708
1916.. 66,130 16 ~,, 40,000 26,130 366,838
Premiums oil nfew shares.. 50,006 416,838
1911.. 79,648 10 pic. = 45,000 34,648 451,486
1912.. 80,598' 10 ~„ 50,000 30,598 482,084
1913.. 81,138 10 „ „ 59,000 31,138 813,222
1914.. 71,946 10 „„ 50,000 2i,946 535,108
South Australia had begun to think that Fortune had
no more bad seasons in her bag. Things last season
were, however, far from what they might have been.
The Winter was cold and the spring was dry, and
though later on prospects improved in the wheat dis-
tricts, red rust and other plagues robbed the farmer
Of some of his expectations. The indifferent weather is
almost entirely if not wholly responsible for the
diminished profits—diminished only by comparison
with those of the last three or four years, but still
much greater than the average of the years* preceding,
say, 1907. The gain in profits during these last few
years, though very excellent, is not altogether what
it seems, inasmuch as the capital on which dividend
has to be paid has been increased from £340,000
to £500.000. Capital and reserves combined now
total £1,035,168. The liabilities of the bank
(deposits, etc.) are £5,167.872, about £5 of public
money for every £1 of the shareholders’ cash, a safe
proportion. The Adelaide's figures are, however,
understood to vary considerably. It is the one bank
remaining with head office in South Australia; two
others fell by the way in troublous times past. And
being the only South Australian bank, and,
moreover, an institution with a very comprehensive
South Aus. share register and a fine backing of assets,
including uncalled capital, South Australia passes all
its banking business that way, which sufficiently ex-
plains the large movement in figures, especially relat-
ing to deposits.
Coming to details, these are the principal changes
shown by comparison with the last two sheets:—
Liabilities.
Mar., 1913. Mar., 1914.
Notes in circulation £16,801 £12,822 Dec. £3,979
Bills in circulation 275,358 265,710 Dec. 9,648
Deposits, etc. .. 4,155,320 4,889,340 Inc. 734,020
Liquid assets .. 2,393,505 2,988,616 Inc. 696,111
Advances .. . . 2,986,570 3,128,104 Inc. 141,534
Premises .. . . 105,627 111,321 Inc. 6,694
As before shown, the total liabilities are £5,167,872.
The liquid assets, £2,922,616, represent 67.8
p.c. of this total —a very strong position suggesting
that the manager can afford to be affable to the right
sort of client when he comes along for a trifle more
to go on with. Still one never knows for sure in con-
nection with the Bank of Adelaide, because of the
more or less violent fluctuation in the Government
account; all that can be said is that the directors are
reputedly a very cautious as well as a very experi-
enced lot, and that the cash position, apart from the
Government account, is habitually strong, and the
outlook is good. It is much too early to say what the
next harvest and wool 'elip will be, but the start is
all right, and there never was a time when Broken
Hill, South Australia’s best cow, gave a richer lot
of milk.
* * ~ * *
A Supreme Court writ has been issued
in Melbourne on behalf of a number of its preference
shareholders against the Commercial Bank of Aus-
tralia by _Blake and Riggall, acting for George D.
Meudell and other preference shareholders. It is
claimed by the plaintiffs that the Bank should pay
4 p.c'. dividends on the preference shares since 1896,
instead of the 3 p.c. it has paid. In the scheme of
reconstruction it was agreed that 4 p.c. should be
paid if earned. The extra 1 p.c. has been earned
many times over, and has been allocated to other
uses than the agreed payment to the preference
shareholders. Further, the plaintiffs claim that the
promise of the directors in February last to pay a
10 p.c. dividend to the ordinary shareholders is
irregular, for two reasons. Firstly, the preference
shareholders are justly entitled to their back money,
and, secondly, the original shareholders have not,
never had, and cannot for many years have any capi-
tal or interest in the bank. Further, the plaintiffs
claim that it was illegal to alter the voting powers
of shareholders by a new article of association giving
the ordinary shareholders the same power of voting,
namely, one vote for one share, as the preference
shareholders when the ordinary shareholders at the
present time have no capital in the concern. There-
fore the action resolves itself into three claims:' (1)
4 p.c. dividend to preference shareholders ; (2) no
dividend to ordinary shareholders; (3) reduction of
voting power of ordinary shareholders below equality
with preference. Of course, this action in no way
reflects on the credit or ' financial position of the
bank, and really the matter may be settled by a
reasonable compromise. At present, those seeking
redress are both powerful and determined.
The Royal Bank of Australia (Mel-
bourne) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends, serves. serves.
££, £ £
Sept., 1905.. 8,238 6 p.c.= 4,500 3,738 47,876
Mar., 1906.. 10,072 7„ „ 5,250 4,822 52,698
Sept., 1906.. 10,179 7„ ~ 5,250 4,929 57,627
Premiums on new shares . . 12,500 70,127
Mar., 1907.. 12,882 7 p.c.= 5,687 7,195 77,322
Sept., 1907.. 14,619 7„ „ 7,000 7,619 84,941
Mar., 1908.. 13,517 7„ „ 7,000 6,517 91,458
Sept., 1908.. 14,697 7„„ 7,000 7,697 99,155
Premiums on new shares . . 12,500 111,655
Mar., 1909.. 18,003 7 p.c.=10,062 7,941 119,596
Sept., 1909.. 17,974 7„„ 10,500 7,474 127,070
Mar., 1910.. 18,549 7 „ ~10,500 8,049 135,119
Sept., 1910.. 18,844 7 „ ~10,500 8,344 143,463
Mar., 1911.. 20,529 7 „ ~10,500 10,029 153,492
Sent., 1911.. 20,180 7„„ 10,500 9,680 163,172
Mar., 1912.. 22,771 8 „ ~ 12.000 10,771 173,943
Sept., 1912..22,464 8 „ ~ 12,000 10,464 184,407
Mar., 1913.. 23,052 8 „ ~ 12,000 11,052 195,459
Sept., 1913.. 22,637 8 „ ~12.000 10,637 206,096
Mar., 1914.. 23,069 8 „ ~12,000 11,069 217,165
The profit is the largest at any time disclosed by
the accounts. But there is better news even than
that for shareholders, and the chairman whispered
it to them at their meeting. Born in 1888, the
Royal of Australia speedily accumulated the cus-
tomary stock of boom assets. After the boom broke
the bank held on for some years, hoping for a re-
covery, but it refused to arrive to any extent worth
mentioning. In 1897, therefore> assets were revalued
and the capital was written down to correspond.
Since then good seasons and high prices have been
the rule, and now the chairman has been able to
announce the disposal of the last of the old dead-
horse. Moreover, a . net profit Of about £26,000
has been made on these realisations, which amount
the management has accumulated as an internal re-
serve in case the remnant of the properties to be
sold did not reach book value. There being no
longer any need for this special reserve the directors
shake it out of their sleeves on to the table:
£15,000 of it is to be added to the reserve fund
and the balance is to go to the credit of an Officers’
Provident Fund. Both these things are excellent jn- their
way, but it is still better news for the shareholders
that the monpr formerly locked up is now all 'avail-
able for new live business.
The bank ha_3 riiade reiiiarkable strides': Consider
these figures:— ,
March, ’O4: March; 14.
bepositS bearing iHterest.. £611,733 £1,491,800
Free deposits :: :: 129,124 833,460
Liquid assets : : • • 335,431
Advances :: :: 586,783 . 1,590,683
To give security to the new deposits the shareholders
capital has been increased in the 10 years from
£150,000 to £300;000, whilb the reserved
profits have also grown robustly. At the prfesent
time capital and reserves combined amount to
£517,165, after providing for the current dividend,
While the total liabilities amount to £2,383,715.
Thus for every £1 of the shareholders’ money in
the business there is under £4 12s. 3d. of the
public’s. Obviously the bigger the proportion of
shareholders’ funds the better the security afforded
to depositors. The proportion in this case is onb
of the best among A,ustraliail banks!. A ex-
cellent feature is the large proportion of .]iduid .asset?.
Of the tbtal of £2,385,715 owing to tho public, no
less than £1,261,233 could be paid out of ,c6in and
by the conversion of liquid assets, leaving £1,124,482
to be provided, and there are £1,653,647 worth of
non-liquid assets to do it with. Such figures as
those ought to give depositors and other creditors a
very satisfied feeling. As a matter of fact the pro-
portion of liquid assets looks unnecessarily large,
which is another way of saying that when the right
securities come along the bank appears to be in a
position to afford considerable further accommoda-
tion. Still, especially at this season of the year,
when the wool and wheat cheques have come in, it is
far better for a bank to have too large rather than
too small a pile of money in the treasury. Any-
way, a bank with large cash resources in good times
is the one that should attract the borrowing cus-
tomer. The one which cannot do anything for him
in bad times is no good to him.
Considerable changes have occurred in the Royal's
figures during the year:—
Mar., 1913. Mar., 1914.
Notes in circulation £1,256 £1,103 Dec. £153
Bills in circulation 66,278 59,322 Dec. 6,956
Deposits at interest 1,398,474 1,491,800 Inc. 93,320
Free deposits . . 765,076 833,490 Inc. 68,414
Liquid assets .. 991,359 1.261,233 Inc. 269,874
Advances . . . . 1,090,189 1,590,682 Dec. 99.507
Premises . . . . 56,995 62,965 Inc. 5,970
Deposits have grown by approximately £160,000. On
the other hand advances have either been called in or
have come in without being called to the extent of
approximately £lOO,OOO. Thus the bank has ac-
cumulated an additional £260,000 of liquid assets,
strengthening the position though naturally tending
to diminish the profit earnings. On this _ latter
score, however, shareholders still have nothing to
complain about. The return calculated on capital
and reserves combined is still a very handsome £9
2s. 4d. p.c. The following shows the figures for the
past few terms:— *
Profits as Compared with Shareholders’ Funds.
Mar., ’lO.. £8 13 0 p.c.l Sept., ’12.. £9 9 7 p.c.
Sept., ’lO.. 8 13 3 „ Mar., ’13.. 9 10 4 „
Mar., ’ll.. 9 5 2 „ Sept., ’l3. . 9 2 9 „
Sept., ’ll.. 817 10 „ Mar., ’14.. 9 2 4 „
Mar., ’12.. 9 16 8 „
A high return like that does not necessarily mean
that the Whole of. the assets are sound and profitable,
but in the absence of evidence to the Contrary It is
a very fair assumption that there are precious few
dead accounts.
* * * *
The V oLtiM Brewing Co. (Geelong,
Vic.):—
Writ- To
ten Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Aug., 1905 £731 IOp.C, = £500£640 £9,106
Feb., 1906 1317 10 „ „ 500 750 £67 9,173
Aug., 1906 1010 10 „ ~ 500 134 376 9,549
Feb., 1907 1353 10 „ „ 500 136 717 10,266
Aug., 1907 868 10 „ „ 500 127 241 10,507
Feb., 1908 1577 10 „ „ 500 523 554 11,061
Aug., 1908 959 10 „ „ 500 618 10,902
Feb., 1909 841 10 „ „ 500 140 201 11,103
Aug., 1909 833 10 „ „ 500 137 196 11,299
Feb., 1910 1663 10 „ „ 500 632 531 11,830
Aug., 1910 885 10 „ „ 501 125 259 12,089
Feb., 1911 1894 10 „ „ 503 1372 19 12,108
Aug., 1911 1108 10 „ „ 503 750 11,963
Feb., 1912 2347 10 „ „ 503 1800 44 12,007
Aug., 1912 1275 10 „ „ 513 1000 11,769
Feb., 1913 2541 10 „ „ 574 1800 167 11,936
Aug., 1913 2072 10 „ „ 574 700 798 12,734
Feb., 1914 2886 10 „ „ 703 1300 883 13,617
Those reserves consist of Reserve fund. £B9Ol ; Special
Reserve, £4500 ; and undivided profit, £216. Besides
that, there is a Building and Plant Fund of £3BOO.
which consists of the amounts under the heading of
“Written Off’’ during the past three terms. Before
that the various sums were merely written off pre-
mises. But apparently the directors think that the
premises item now stands at a fair thing so long as
the licenses hold good. When a pub is de-licensed,
the Building and Plant fund will be drawn on to
write down that pub. But the trouble is that the
co., which is practically confined to Geelong, might
be smitten with a no-liCehse vote; then its pub pre-
mises and its brewery and plant would be worth only
a shade of what they were formerly. But, as things
are, the co. is doing splendidly. Its reserves amount
to within £BOO of its capital, and rents alone more
than pay the 10 p.c. dividend, leaving profits on
beer to go either to management exes, or back into
the business. Assets consist of freehold premises—
including pubs, brewerv and land- —£29,164; stock,
£1471 : plant and rolling stock —well written down
-—-£4229; sundry debtors, £6229, and cash. £297.
Against that there are liabilities of £9296. of which
£6500 is represented bv' a mortgage. Five years
ago that plaster' amounted to £9500, so, beyond
Die £3OOO reduction, the co. appears in no hurry
to get rid of the incubus.
WICKITAAf AND BULLOCK ISLAND COAL
Co. (N.S.W.I :
Mine Writ-
Development ten
Expenditure. Off. Deficit.
Profit.
Mar., 1909.. £8.061 £684 £6557 £13,191
Sept., 1909.. 8,655 147 3713 8,390
Mar., 1910.. 538 193 301 8,352
Nominal
Reserves.
Sept., 1910.. 13,716 3666 1.698
Mar., 1911.. 10,730 3746 8,682
f 10,294 31671
Sept., 1911 .. Four years’ divs. on pref. J- 5,809
( shares, £lO,OOO J
I 9*346 31671
Mar., 1912 .. - Four years’divs. on pref. V 1,988
I shares, £lO,OOO )
h 5.883 —3244 S
Three years’ divs. on pref.
Sept., 1912.. -: shares, £7500; 10 p.c. r 2,690
div. on other shares,
l £4437 J
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off.
Mar., 1913 .. £ 10j 137 { ! 0 ' = J £3177 3 939
Sept., 1913 .. 11,650 j gj l2 * Pf = “g® \ 3216 5,534
Mar., 1914 .. 11,448 \ g*' l2 * } 3283 6,824
When the shareholders have collected their dividends
they might shake hands with themselves and wonder
if they really deserve it. The co. did what numerou'
other mines are still doing—it dug out the coal,
paid large dividends, forgot all about writ-
ing anything off the book value of the
mine, and then found that it had a worked-
out orifice standing in the books at the same
value that it had represented years before when there
was a plentiful supply of coal in the hole. Then it
hunted round and struck a rare bargain, and once


The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, GERMANY, etc.
New Direct Cable to Auckland from Board’s
Sydney Office opened December, 1912.
A Week End rate is now available between
Great Britain and Australasia. Rate 9d. per
word with minimum of 18s. 124 words).
Week End Cable Letters are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain on the following Tuesday morning.
Argentine, Brazil,
Chili and Peru
6/8$ - 2/10$
West Indies, Central America and other
rates on application.
Cable Forms, Deferred and Week End
Regulations may be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
408 Collins Street, Melbourne. Tel. 2585.
J. MILWARD, Manager in the Pacific",
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
L
A GOOD INVESTMENT!
DUNLOP
MINING and
ENGINEERING GOODS
CAN ALWAYS be relied on for
QUALITY, WEAR ,
and SATISFACTION
ANY CLASS OF GOODS MADETO ORDER
SAMPLES AND TENDERS SUBMITTED.
LISTS ON APPLICATION.
, DUNLOP RUBBER CO..
Melbourne, Sydney. Adelaide. Perth, Brisbane
I Wellington and Christchurch.
Power is money. Every mining and mill man--
every factory owner, knows this; it is part of his
creed. If he is a thinking man he stops every little
power leak he can put his finger on. He guards his
power in his boiler and engine rooms, but does he—-
do YOU—take into account the possible loss after
it leaves the prime mover? You may have a perfect
system of power economy in your engine room, and
still be losing power and money while transmitting
the power from the prime mover to the machinery
by using inefficient belting - . “Pioneer” Leather
Belting is your one safe profit helper, it delivers
every ounce of power with the least possible loss; it
means less wear and tear on machine and belt. It
costs more per foot but less per year
because every foot pulls and keeps- your
pulleys running at full speed every , minute.
Hundreds of Australasia’s keenest mine and plant
owners and engineers use “Pioneer” Leather Belting.
Will your factory profit by their experience? Let
us send samples and prices. “Pioneer” Leather
Belting is made only by J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd.,
Pioneer Works, 117 York Street, Sydney (Opp.
Q. V. Markets), and sold in Victoria by Geo. Russell
Pty., Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne; in South
Australia by J. McKell, Timpson Street, Adelaide;
in Queensland by Queensland Machinery Co., Ltd.,
Brisbane; in W. Australia by Horace 11. Summer,
Howard Street, Perth; in Broken Hill by Geo. C.
Dempster, Argent Street.*
* * * *
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydnev Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, bv the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
* * » *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. Sd. pet
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [2
* * * *
Extract from Financier, dated London, September
2, 1911; “The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society is well recognised as an institution which
typifies the enterprise and energy of the land of its
birth, and not only in Australasia but in Great
Britain and South Africa it has proved itself one
of the most progressive of the great Life Offices.”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE may be laid above or
underground, and stands exposure to all kinds of
weather and changes of temperature without deteriora-
tion. Descriptive catalogue free upon application.
THE AUSTRALIAN WOOD PIPE CO., LTD., 57
York Street, Sydney (Head Office).*
Amongst orders received since the New Year by
our Brisbane Branch are the following Suction and
Towns Gas Engines: Geo. Stupart, Esq. ; Maryborough,
49 b.h.p., for Electric Lighting; Maclcay Harbor
Board, 43 b.h.p., for Stone Crushing ; Dr. Voss,
hampton, two —each 17 b.h.p., for Electric Lighting;
R. H. Treweeke, Goondiwindi, 17 b.h.p., for Sheep-
shearing; Mrs. Devaney, Gladstone, 13 b.h.p., for
Electric Lighting ; whilst at the present time they are
erecting a 73 b.h.p. Suction Gas Engine and Plant
for Messrs. Harris and Co., Rockhampton, for Electric
Lighting purposes. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., Mel-
bourne, Sydney and Brisbane.*
The highest returns for all kinds of residues are
obtained from Harrington’s Ltd., of 386 George-
street, Sydney, who buy large quantities of jewellers’
sweeps, polishings, handwash and lemel, process
workers’ residues, plating baths and any other
materials containing gold, silver or platinum. Assays
are executed for jewellers within two or three hours,
and prospectors and others are assured of immediate
attention. All kinds of analytic al and metallurgical
work can be executed promptly, and advice given on
all branches of industrial chemistry and metallurgy.
The whole of the work is directed by a qualified
analyst and metallurgist from Vohnson & Sons, Lon-
don, Assayers and Refiners to file Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, the Council of India, etc., etc. Direct
shipments of large parcels of sweeps, residues, ores,
etc., can be sent direct to Johnson & Sons by arrange-
ment.*
* * r *
J. Malcolm Newman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
CLAUDE BRISTOW, Assayer and Analytical
Chemist. Sampling supervised. 93 Pitt Street,
Sydney.*
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Ilassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydnej'.*
« * * *
11.M.A.5. Australia, now in Australian waters,
is fitted entirely with Babcock and Wilcox Water-
tube Boilers, similar to the H.M.S. New Zea-
land and other Dreadnoughts recently built for the
Admiralty.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silderberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh.; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
'Phone
CITY-8332.
Poldi Steel
171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
wore it is shelling out dividends. This table su
that the managers don’t intend to burn their finders
1904. 1912. 1914.
Inabilities ~ .. £3,162 £5,280 £220
Mine property ~ ~ 81,000 68;000
Plant, stock, etc, 18,816 34,994 37,648
Liquid assets .. . < 4,583 22,439 oS, BIB
Thus, since 1912, the mine has been written down by
£BOOO, and it is evidently the intention ol the
directors to continue to allow for depreciation in
value; so that when it is quite worked out it will
be entirely written off the accounts and the co. will
be in a position to buy another mine. The progress
that the co. has made is wonderful. Since 1904,
when the capital was £103,939, it has got in only
£3221 of outside money, yet during the same period
it has kept up a regular large dividend, added
£18,832 to its plant and stock, irrespective of writ-
ing down, and £29,235 to its liquid assets ; and on
top of that has bought a new mine and partially de-
veloped it. Of course, every good thing must came to
an end. The co.’s present mine is only a small one,
although no idea is given as to the amount of coal
left, and the shareholders must not be disappointed
if the next purchase doesn’t turn out as lucrative as
its present mine. But they have the satisfaction of
knowing that present dividends are dividends, and
not partly return of capital.
Towards the close of this year R.I.P. will
be written after the name of one of the last of the
Melbourne land boom victims. Born about ’75, the
North Melbourne and Carlton Permanent Building and
Investment Society throve and prospered through a
lusty youth. Then came the double afflictions of the
boom and a defaulting official. It sank like half a
brick, and though it wasn’t drowned outright it never
got its head properly above water again. The erring
official —an absolute masterpiece of casualness —only
entered up the books when the fit took him. And
even then it was his custom to do it in the dark with
his eyes shut and blinders on. As a consequence, a
committee has spent most of this century in an
utterly futile effort to straighten things out. It has
now decided to give the dreadful job best. The
shareholders met recently and passed resolutions
(1) ordering the committee to wind the ancient
and disorderly ruin up before the end of the year;
(2) instructing it to whack out such assets as there
were—about 3s. in the £1 —on a pro rata basis, and
(3) indemnifying each and every committeeman and
other officer against “any error of judgment, over-
sight, irregularity, mistake or omission in the books,
share register or other records of the society, or for
any other loss, damage or misfortune whatever, unless
the same happen through his dishonesty.” The latter
seems to cover all that is necessary. One can only
hope, in conclusion, that the N.M. and C.P.B. and
I. Soc. will soon be happily dead, and that when it
is it will prove to be one of those corpses for which
there is no resurrection.
* * * *
The shilling declared by the B. H. Pro-
prietary is a reminder that there are now 1,181,000
shares to participate. Something like 75 p.c. or 80
p.c. of this lot are held in Britain. The increased
support is due to the prospect of making profits out
of iron, steel, spelter and galvanising. It will
be months before a start can be made at the New-
castle ironworks, but the shipment of some thousands
of tons of heavy machinery from America and Britain
and the erection of a 60-ton crane at the jetty near
Newcastle to handle this material, indicates that fair
progress has been made.
* * * *
Ballina Gold and Mineral (N.S.W.)
affected a rather startling break from obscurity last
week. This concern proposes to puff itself up
mightily, if developments turn out as per schedule.
These are connected with beach sands, and the clean-
up that is threatening will be no ordinary clean-up,
either in fact or in consequence. Present capital,
£6OOO in £lO shares.
* * * *
Pulganbar Quicksilver and Copper, Graf-
ton (N S.W.), explains that there will be no clean-up
until the furnace has run two or three months, as the
surface of the condensers is so large, being over
8000 ft. superficial. So that part of the interest is
postponed for a month or two. The other part seems
likely to be postponed—or forgotten, perhaps—in-
definitely, for the directors languidly repeat that they
are making preparations to open up the mine. The
unfortunate mine never yet has been able to get
beyond that preparatory stage; and it is doubtful if
it ever will.
For the fortnight to April 15 the Occi-
dental (N.S.W.) hauled 766 tons averaging, according
to the official report, 12dwt. Bgrs. per ton. The re-
port also mentions that some of the stopes at No. 4
level have been beaten out. From No. 5 level 483
tons were raised, averaging just over 7dwt., so the
mine is depending on local enrichments to make up
an average of 12dwt. per ton. At No. 6 level (640 ft.)
31 tons were pulled, averaging about 17dwt., and
from the south drive 32 tons worth 12dwt. With
another machine at work this part of the mine is
expected to be a big producer.
New Burragorang (N.S.W.) since it made
a start has shipped 58 tons of its silver-lead ore for
a net return of £1056. If the mine could produce
that much in a fortnight there would be something
to rejoice over, but up to the present dispatches of
ore have been too small to make it worth while
talking seriously about profits. Latest report states Nd.
5 east is being prepared for stoping, and the rise
from No. 6 level has now broken through to the
winze from No. 5, improving the ventilation and the
opportunity for raising ore. Some old workings
are being prospected from No. 3 shaft. Only 11
tons were dispatched for the fortnight; at £lB per
ton this is worth £l9B.
* * * *
“Quidam”: Mining promoters talk very
glibly about the wealth to be amassed by applying
the “all-solution” (or crushing with cyanide) system
to various gossan outcrops in N.S.W. But anyone
who feels inclined to thus extract lucre from gossan
outcrops which overlie copper lodes, no matter how
poor cupriferously, had better go warily with his
preliminary tests and make sure that all the copper
has been leached out of the gossan; for a very little
copper has ruined many a sanguine cyanider. When
the gossan lies on a copper-bearing lode, water from
which will coat a knife, not only is copper sure to be
present, but there is enough acid from the partially
developed copper sulphides to cause trouble with
solutions which should be alkaline. Another pecu-
liarity of these gossan formations is that thev are
plentifuly endowed with soluble iron salts which are
vigorous eaters of cyanide. To people used only to
free milling, oxidised surface ores, which can be
crushed with cyanide without any chemical compli-
cations, there is much of a disconcerting nature about
ores in which the solutions turn a beautiful Prussian
blue, the zinc tailings look like new copper, and
liquor that should be alkaline turns strongly acid.
Profits may be won, but it is better, to realise the
difficulties before erecting a plant than to go bank-
rupt afterwards. Coppery gossan, from a cyanider’s
point of view, is not by any means the clean ootato.
* * * *
Mount Lyell’s investigations into the
northern workings of the Comstock appear to have
been fairly satisfactory. About 200,000 tons of 3
p.c. ore are reckoned to exist, and these should yield
a moderate profit under the flotation process.
Briseis Tin (Tas.) reports itself unable to
carry on the ticklish job of diverting the Ringarooma
River and maintaining the usual output. So the
next four months will see the output dwindle to 20
tons a month. The Briseis proper is practically
worked out, but for some years past stripping has been
conducted in the Ringarooma overburden, beneath
which there is apparently sufficient wash to postpone
the co.’s demise. How this wash is likely to pan
out the last yearly report refrained from mentioning,
for obvious reasons.
* * * *
Sultan Reefs, Blackwood (Tas.), after
much driving and sinking, is beginning to find out
that the old hands knew just when to throw up a
show. The reef is narrow and patchy, and though
tucker may come' from occasional yields, even a
small party couldn’t fatten out of the profits. The
best thing seems to be to hand the assets over to
the auctioneer; and that is to be done —if current
opinion is an accurate guide.
Mount Jasper (Tas.) has disregarded
Frank Powell’s pessimistic report, and has put up
the cash for a 200-ton concentrating mill. There
is much joy over a three-ton concentrates output that
is to be capable of covering exes., provided, of course,
it is high-grade enough. Then why stop at a mill
capable of treating 200 tons of ore weekly, when a
lode 1300 ft. long and ah outcrop 400 ft. long is wait-
ing to be drawn on for material? This problem has
hurried ’several Jasper mine-managers into oblivion,
and more will come and go unless a practical man
happens along who is capable of extracting profits
from Jasper ore or shovelling cash out of Mount
Stewart. The sanest suggestion yet made is to put'
Mount Jasper into a co. with a decent capital.
Working under tribute conditions Star of
the West, Kevington (Vic.), got out a small lot of
loz. dirt. Tlie co. has been trying to find what has
become of the shoot of gold that made the May-do
lode a dividend-payer. There has been enough for-
mation to build a cairn and just enough colors of
gold to prompt the forlorn hope that has led to the
rising on a lOin. reef east of the line. Here there
is a chance that the gold has made off in the little
shoot. If not, the other co. looks as if it has
done its dash.
When the Langi Logan South changed
directors there was a hope that the next half-year
would see the big gutter pricked. Two puddlers have
been built, some work done in the shallow ground,
and the driving carried on in the mine main and
intermediate levels. Co. has now Tom Mitchell’s
opinion that “it has been proved beyond doubt that
the whole of the leads from the north must traverse
your property (South Langi), and you have the most
valuable position on the field.” The same thing has
already been said of the Central Langi, the Upper
Langi and the North Langi, and these are about five
miles apart. Yet with all this to go on with there
hasn’t been any anxiety on the part of the directors of
the South Langi to bring its wealth to the surface.
Possibly some speeding-up may be done now that
the intermediate is nearing the deep ground, and the
bar influence is out off the main level.
* * * *
South Australian Oil Wells Co. is, floated
and goes to registration at once, allotment being
fixed for after the first meeting of shareholders on
May 13. Three or four firms in Australia, including
Moffat-Virtue Ltd. of Sydney, are indenting Cali-
fornian oil drilling rigs, and the probable petrolifer-
ous areas of Australia will be pierced for good or
evil in many places before the end of 1914.
A Bulletin man has been looking at the
Kalgoorlie mines, and here are some of his im-
pressions Great Boulder: Increased widths of ore
between the levels have considerably augmented the
ore reserves, and taken some of the sickly look away.
From appearances it seems as if present dividends
can, and will, be maintained for another three years.
.... Kalgoorlie: A number of bore holes have lately
been drilled from the bottom level of this mine, but
all of them have been in barren calc schist. Occa-
sional good finds in the upper levels have helped the
reserves to keep pace with the mill, and, intrinsically,
the property is probably as good now as it was
nine months ago, when the last official valuation was
made.... Boulder Perseverance: Working faces are
generally showing a much-needed improvement, though
the gross average for the mine is still under 6dwt.
Reserves are practically the same as. last estimate,
but the broken ore section of them has been in-
creased from 175,000 to 200,000 tons. Bottom work-
ings still wear a very lean look, and co. may now
be said to be subsisting mainly on what was left
behind or missed by former managements in the
higher levels. What the extent of these leavings
really is goodness only knows, but they are reckoned
to be sufficient to keep the mine on the profit-eafning
list for some years to come. The latter portion of
these remarks also applies to the Associated, which
some time,, ago bottomed at 1800 ft. on murderous
calc schist.’ The mine is having a hard struggle to
make ends meet and earn a little every now and then
for shareholders out of what others left behind, and
what it occasionally stumbles across in new ground.
....Adelaide Enterprise, alias Ziegler’s: Hard to
understand what the syndicate working this show is
building on. So far, some burrowing has been done
in a surface impregnation on the side of Mount Char-
lotte, and a braneffnew Huntingdon mill and other
plant has been installed. Nothing has been found
to warrant this extravagance, and, judging by de-
velopments to date, the mill and other surface decora-
tions will soon have to be sold or left to rust for
the want of work.... Golden Horseshoe: Recent losses
apparently caused by unusual number of stopes pass-
ing through low-grade sections. Position now im-
proving and good developments reported during past
year or two are expected shortly to be reflected in the
output. The heavy development expenditure in-
curred has practically opened up a new mine in the
lower levels... .Associated Northern: Iron Duke lease
breathing its last. Ora Banda lease: Lode has just
been cut at the No. 7 level, and looks poor. Alto-
gether, 400 ft. of shoot has been exposed at No. 6
level, three-fourths of which is estimated to average
40s. A winze put down to No. 7 level, however, only
averaged 20s. The 7000-ton sulphide plant in course
of erection on this show is expected to be running
in December... .Ivanhoe: The shaft on this mine is
now down 3047 ft., and is the deepest in the West. The
drives in the bottom level at 2720 ft. are in porphyry
country. The lode is well defined, but very patchy.
.... South Kalgurli: Recent developments at the
No. 2 and No. 9 levels of the South Kalgurli lease
and No. 10 level in the Hainault block have materially
added to the reserves and improved the appearance
of the mine.
A recent Mines Department estimate
figures the number of underground men in the gold
mines of the West at 7086 and surface hands at
5934, or a total of 13,020. Alluvial diggers are
computed at 425. Altogether, 213 men are reckoned
to be mining copper, 403 tin, 132 lead, and 559
coal. Several thousand workers such as firewood-cutters
and charcoal-burners are also indirectly connected
with the industry, and then a few prospectors have
also to be taken into account.
Granite got into the Edna May (W.A.)
shaft about the middle of April. Yet Southern Cross
only found the fact out when the bears were scratch-
ing up dust in Melbourne. I l 'oiks there still fancy
that gneissic “schist” is as soft as putty compared
with the primary granite. On the mine the chap
who has to knock out tucker belting into the gneiss
doesn’t see much difference between the drill-blunt-
ing stuff being butted into by the sinker, and the
abandoned diamond drill core got in the outlying
ground. Anyway, a post-mortem is to be held (gran-
ite versus gneiss) by the Mines Department at Perth.
That won’t help in the least to tell whether the next
lift will bottom on primary rock or disclose a well-
defined shoot, though the hardness of the country
seems to afford a tolerable index of what is ahead.
The last yield was again about the oz. mark, despite
the constant 2oz. prospects.
Bullfinch Proprietary (W.A.) reports “en-
couraging results” in the main shaft west drive at
300 ft. Payable sulphide ore is stated to be showing
from 287 ft. to 468 ft. along the level, and crosscuts
put through the lode at 271 ft. and 335 ft. are said
to have disclosed 10ft. of 345., and 15ft. of 265. 3d.
material. Co. also claims to have risen 80ft. on a
new ore body at the No. 2 level, and to have been
in 80s. stuff all the way. Annual meeting is about
to be held in London, but as Hamilton is at the
Boulder and Bill Robinson is spelling in Melbourne
only old-man Doolette is left to face shareholders
and bang the optimistic drum. As he is a real artist
at this sort of thing, it may be taken for granted
that the performance will prove a success.
“Oof Bird” (W.A.) : Payne’s Find’s posi-
tion needs explanation. Latest half-yearly accounts
show that £9050 has been put up to date, but £8706
of this, together with a few thousand pounds’ worth
of gold, has been expended. On what? Two or three
shallow shafts,, some potholes, a little crosscutting
and driving, and a couple of thousand pounds’ worth
of machinery. Co. now wants more money to pur-
chase rock drills to prospect for the continuation of
gold values, which are alleged to be showing in
adjoining properties, and which it declares are richer
at 140 ft. than nearer the surface. During the six
months covered by the latest accounts, 735 tons were
crushed for an average recovery of 505., but mining
and administrative expenses absorbed all this, and
£49 besides. The low average recovery compared
with official estimates was, according to the report,
due to “everything taken from the stope being
crushed.” Was a little of everything taken when
the flash assays were made, and if not, why not?
Surely the manager’s idea of an assay was not to
pick a piece of gold-specked stone out of the face
and give its value as representing the whole. Credi-
tors are owed £4408, and their security at present
consists of the aforesaid machinery, a few holes in
the ground, and the co.’s optimism regarding possi-
bilities at depth. It cannot, by any stretch of imagin-
ation, be considered gilt-edged.
Manager Bob Nicolson’s annual report
mentions a few words regarding the Ivanhoe and its
works. In August last Dr. Maclaren predicted that
the east lode would pass through the porphyry at a
vertical depth of 3380 ft., but while the porphyry
would be unreliable it would probably contain occa-
sional patches of payable ore. In order to further
test the location of the aforesaid porphyry a bore
was put down from the 2870 ft. plat. It found what
it was looking for at 3028 ft., and passed out of it at
3200 ft., and at a point 6ft. west of the eastern,
thus showing the porphyry dyke to be 27lft. wide at
the spot penetrated by the drill. A band of low-
grade mineralised ore was cut en route, and this is
assumed to be the east lode thrown west. If this
assumption be correct, its position and the location
of the eastern boundary of the porphyry would mean
an increased depth of approximately 120 ft. before the
east lode would pass out of the porphyry. It is now
proposed to bore at a similar angle from the plat at
3170 ft., when the main shaft reaches that depth, and
further prove the dip of the intrusive bar.
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) has started work
on the main ore channel at the No. 20 level, and is
pushing the shaft down below that point. The erec-
tion of a big gas-producer plant for the re-organisa-
tion and simplification of the metallurgical treat-
ment has been completed, and the State Governor has
been asked to come along and perform a sort of
opening ceremony.
* *■ , * *
Mountain Queen (W.A.) is now scratch-
ing hard for a living by treating ore derived plainly
from a big surface deposit, and some slimes which
were allowed to accumulate prior to the erection of
the present plant. Nothing worth having is visible
at depth, and although a good deal of money has
been, and probably will be, spent on the co.’s other
property, the Transvaal, the prospect of shareholders
ever getting anything, except perhaps a liquidation
div., is very slender.
* * * *
Great Unknown, at Marda (W.A.), has
just been credited with another 1710 z., which repre-
sents a 3ioz. return. There is said to be a big pile
of loz. ore at grass, and the usual addendum, “the
reef is looking well,” is tacked on to the statement.
Several mine-buyers have nibbled at this show from
time to time, but no one has so far swallowed the
bait.
The Lake View and Oroya-controlled
Queen of the Hills (W.A.) complains that its progress
is being retarded owing to the shortage of competent
workers. However, it is living in hopes of getting
over this difficulty shortly, and, in the meantime, as
much ore as possible is being broken for the mill,
and the shaft is being pushed down to the 6th level.
* * * *
Adelaide has abandoned its option on the
Benjamin George at Coolgardie. No reason is
given for turning the show down so soon, but pro-
bably the want of something big enough for a co.
has a little to do with it.
* * * *
Brilliant Extended (Charters Towers)
shows a big improvement in the quality of the stone
crushed. The return for the last four weeks was 1540
tons for £4429, and 1100 tons cyanided for £798,
making a total of £5227. The three previous re-
turns gave £12,649 from 5004 tons of stone and a
quantity of tailings. Although the average was
slightly over 50s. per ton of stone there was a
small loss. The latest return, however, shows a pro-
fit of £1605. or 21s. per ton. There is, of course,
the discomforting reflection that, as the tonnage be-
comes reduced, costs rise. The prospect of striking
another pay shoot down at 3000 ft. vertical is poor at
present, but as the levels progress to the east there
is certainly a sporting chance. The Extended has a
very comfortable reserve fund.
* * * *
The Airmen River Co., after some years of
trouble with an intermittent water supply, is putting
in a big pumping plant to work its sluicing faces,
and is erecting a dredge (bucket) to work a
100-aere flat, which, it is said, goes between
21b. and 31b. of tin to the yard. All the tin is not
in Malaya, and there are some good properties in
N.Q., but it is not far enough away, or there are
not enough niggers to attract Australian capital.


Charles
BeidsieckS
Vml-age J J9O6
QMflMffi’
NE PLUS ULTRA
/
■
ĥ
gh
gh
fh
FARMER’S
SYDNEY
SPECIAL
TMEATPE DIMMER
EVEPY FPI DAY EVEtIIMG
TABLE DIIOTE 4/s
EnTRAnCE - CEHTHAL PITT 5T DOORS
ELEVATOR /b FIFTH FLOOR
BUCHANAN’S
BlacK <& White
A
A GRAND SPIRIT
“ Black & White ” is indeed a “ grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, May 4, 1914.
My Dear Arini, —
Hospital Saturday collectors raged with
unabated ferocity from dusty morning to
bankrupt eve. The usual live stock accom-
plices—an athletic goat, a dog or two, and a
pair of ponies—starred the bill. There was
no elephant collecting, nor did I see a
single whale. The lady bushrangers, who
swarmed office staircases and climbed almost
impregnable city fastnesses, sent a determined
squadron out to Victoria Park Racecourse,
to intercept any coin left over from the Guil-
laux flying exhibition.
In spite of the persistent attacks of Lovely
Woman, the collection (his year is behind the
1913 raid on the public pocket. About
£7717 is given as the approximate total, as
against £BOOO odd which last year’s attacks
wormed out of besieged citizens. Plainly
the boom is fading.
French aviator Guillaux gave such a won-
derful performance of gymnastics with his
buzzing monoplane, over Victoria Park Race-
course, the other afternoon, that few women
will contentedly walk mere earth for the
next week or two. From the stand the
machine looked like a long, half-dried locust,
its body stuffed with white paper parcels.
Poised on one leg, or on half a wheel or
it waited patiently till the band
had finished the Marseillaise, and Guillaux
had buried his head in its works, and every
■ other detail had been tidied up. llow to
fly, not only like a bird, but like an inverted
■ comma or a beetle kicking on its back in
mid-air—somewhere near the welkin—and
how to loop the loop, or dive from space to
space with nothing more substantial than
half a mile of atmosphere to stand on, was
■ only part of the Guillaux show.
Victoria Park Racecourse could give a good
;many points, in its trim lawns and well-kept
.flower beds, to untidy Randwick, which still
turns a slipshod herbage to the public eye.
i Someone with a cute notion of gardening
;must be the tetrarch of the pretty course near
the whiffs of Botany. Crowds of people
herded together on the green turf to watch
the French birdman turn Catherine wheels in
the atmosphere. They planted their feet
firmly on the sod, and wore their expressive
.smiles upturned to the whir of the flying
monoplane. Secretary PI. M. Somer, of the
Agricultural Society, craned his neck at an
angle of 75 degrees. The Alfred Marks
group were in the thick of the fray. Mrs.
Geoff. Fairfax had no brim to obstruct her
view, for her saucy black hat, with the white
ribbon round it (this is the millinery of the
instant), was like a small velvet pudding-
basin on her neat locks. The Strickland
youngsters swarmed round mamma, who
drove on to the lawm in her favorite two-
horse chariot. Some thoughtful person care-
fully removed the horses before the bird man
got into his swoop. French Consul Chayet
was about the proudest person present, and
the tricolor was It.
Lieut.-Governor Murray passed through
this town on his annual way to the Federal
Ministerial ear in Melbourne.
Under-Sec. for Colonies Hartmann Just
will be unofficially on view at the Govern-
ment House garden party this week. The
new A.D.C. Wallis, recently arrived from
'Gibraltar, will be inspected at the same
‘entertainment.
Mrs. Gaud Mayoress Richards lost her
father, Mr. John Booth, last week. This
sturdy old citizen passed out at the age of
82, after seeing Sydney grow from a roomy,
straggling town to a congested city, almost
deafened with the roar of its own traffic.
The late John Booth was an alderman at
the Council board of our chief municipal
fathers. Some 'years ago the old gentleman
wore the magic M.L.A. for a while, as a
member of the local bear-garden—l mean,
Legislative Assembly. The bears didffit
agree with him, and he left without regret.
Artist Penleigh Boyd, who took second
prize or highly commended or something for
his clever picture of the bush capital, Can-
berra, came to Sydney the other day. He
has been humping his easel round other
patches of Australian scenery. Artist Boyd
is still a mere youngster of 23 or 24, though
he has settled down to matrimony and trails
a grown-up kind of career behind him. One
item always mentioned is his precocious
effort, “Spring at St. Ives.” This was ex-
hibited at the Royal Academy while the
youthful artist was feeling the edge of his
first razor.
Wirths’ Circus management rushed to the
assistance of St. Margaret’s Hospital for
Women the other afternoon. A benefit
matinee for that worthy charity drew a
crowd Of sympathisers, and the Government
House Kindergarten sat up very firmly to
hear the lions growl in aid of the cause. The
South Sydney Hospital, which stands on
part of the Cooper estate (a big slice of Zet-
land), is to share with St. Margaret the
cash for this event.
Little Mrs. George Earp, who can gener-
ally be located under the brim of the Latest
Hat, is plunging into an evening with Wag-
ner before you see this. The Queen Vic-
toria Club, an aesthetic assembly which
mixes politics and Culture in homoeopathic
doses, will house this classic entertainment.
Wagner is strong meat, but So.ciety, which
knows what is expected of it, will have kept
awake during the musical explosions of Ger-
man thunder, if it had to pinch itself black
and blue.
The District Nursing Association, which
has been rather eclipsed by the mushroom
growth of newer charities, is getting a
look-in at More Cash. Notices to the effect
that the Admiralty lady will tear asunder a
sale of goods, etc., at the J. Macarthur On-
slow domicile (Bellevue Hill) have been
bombarding our Most Expensive suburbs.
The District Nurse is one of our best insti-
tutions. Trotting along mean streets to her
destination in some squalid rookery, that is
more or less tumbling down on the patient’s
head, she is the self-effacing Nightingale of
the Poor. Long hours and short pay, and
always the brown bag that contains nearly
everything except a bath tub and a mangle,
are the outward and visible signs of the Dis-
trict Nurse. Somehow, she gets less lime-
light than any other Act of Benevolence.
“Sealed Orders,” at the Theatre Royal,
serves to illustrate the brains of Beatrice
Day as Mrs. o’Mar.a, and the clothes of
Ethel Warwick. The latter lady, as the
Admiral’s wife who stole the sealed orders to
help her pay her gaming debts, is so much
like the finest fashion plate you ever saw
that the fact that she burls remarks, through
her clenched teeth, towards the orchestra
seems an unnecessary strain. Miss War-
wick has a beauty red coat, an evening wrap,
a couple of ball-dresses, and a long, lean
figure which any short, fat woman in the
audience would steal with pleasure. Re
burgling. The second scene gives a thrilling
spectacle of a patent safe being electrocuted
so that the Wrong Man can get away with
the diamonds.
Madeline Collins, a N.S.W. singer of ex-
traordinary promise, has been mentioned in
this Letter before as a youthful warbler of
the skylark persuasion. She has just won
a three-years’ scholarship at the Royal Acad-
emy of music, London. At present Made-
line, who is 17 years venerable, is studying at
St. Vincent’s College, Potts Point, and a con-
cert on her behalf is already muttering be-
hind the scenes.
The biggest social scrimmage last week
was an overflow meeting at the Australia.
The board room seethed (it is a great spec-
tacle when a board room seethes) with
women decked out in their most emotional
hats, and autumn frocks palpitating with ex-
citement. One or two desperate men looked in
and meekly fled towards the congested door-
way. Mr. Ernest Broughton, who had been
pounced on for the presentation, made a
wary progress through the throng, and got
his back against the wall with a large table
in front. Thus protected he handed a cheque
of £lOO to that well-known Sydney journalist,
Mrs. Patty Fotheringhame, who edits and
mostly writes a weekly social chronicle
called Splashes.
This popular presswoman, with a hand-
some autograph album clasped to her bosom,
a £lOO cheque and a huge presentation bou-
quet in her plump right hand, contrived to
murmur her thanks through a tear trickle or
two before being rushed off to the Winter
Garden to the largest tea party those pre-
mises have squeezed together. Mrs. Packer,
Mrs. David Storey, Miss McCarthy, Mrs.
Ernest Broughton, Mrs. G. L. Goodman and
at least a hundred other women friends and
admirers of kind Mrs. F. fell upon her neck
to tell her how pleased they were to give her
a slight token of their regard. (Pier neck
was dead tired with being fallen on before
the greetings were half through.) Just now,
they are writhing with indignation at the
sup-Pression of this affair by the inky way.
Not a feather present has even been mentioned
in a whisper, though the usual dress reporting
nibs were very much in evidence. Isn’t this a
small world, Arini?
The Sydney branch of the Bank of New
Zealand is going to change its quarters from
its present abode to its own roof. This
flitting from one side of George-street to the
other will land the Bank’s money bags in the
New. Zealand Chambers. The ground floor
of this palatial office is at present used as
the Maoriland Tourist Bureau. Mr. Harold
Beauchamp, a fine, upstanding visitor from
the Dominion, has been bustling round this
town in connection with the proposed move.
He is Chairman of Directors of the Bank of
New Zealand, and is still faithful, in the
era of the razor, to the short, clipped beard
of yore.
The Inter-State Tennis Argument begins
on May 8 and goes on till the 16th. at the
old address, Manning-road, Double Bay.
Hon sec. Ivo Kerr gripped time by its fore-
lock and sent forth placards of announcement
a week or so ago.
Mr. D. Dewar Wright and his wife and
daughter went off to Europe in the Mooltan
for a trip to other climes. They come back
across the U.S.A. G. D. Wright is the Aus-
tralasian general .manager, or tetrarch-in-chief
of the tremendous Dewar whisky firm.
During his absence abroad the local flow of
the liquid will be controlled by Mr. i\ M.
Dewar, whq hurried here from' Scotland for
the purpose with large supplies of the firm’s
goods in his sporran.
Mrs. W. A. Holman is welcoming home
contralto Ella Caspers as 1 gum this mis-
sive. The Wentworth Hotel Winter Garden
—where you can sip Pekoe and listen to
attractive music—is the scene of this gather-
ing.
A lady bearing the awe-inspiring name of
Mrs. Gertie de Wentworth James has been
dancing the te-tao in some Kensington
(London) haunt of Terpsichore. The te-
tao is a Chinese dance, which is so old that
it takes a good, hard thump to restore ani-
mation. It has been more or less moribund
for 4000 years. Mrs. Gertie de Wentworth
James ought to make it turn in its grave
anyhow.
Mr. R. Wood, ex-M.P. for Palmerston
North (M.L.), is over here on a holiday, and
incidentally had a chance of being waylaid in
the streets by Hospital Saturday bushranger-
esses. Mr. Wood is a man who made a small
local flare in M.L. politics many years ago. At
one time Fred Pirani, an Opposition mem-
ber for Palmerston North, and a very tall
man for liis size, which was almost nothing,
had achieved a scrap of reflected fame
as a sharp thorn in the side of Old Man Sed-
don. Wood, who was quite unknown, as-
tounded political prophets by beating Pirani,
to the great joy of Seddon’s followers. His
constituents liked him so much that at next
opportunity they elected him ex-M.P., and no
one has torn the job from him from that day
to this.
The dapper Consul-General for France,
Mr. _ Chayet, has been discoursing at the
Foreign Language Society’s recent corroboree.
Dr. Roth was in the chair. The notion of
meetings at which industrious persons who
try to chatter in French to anyone who will
be so obliging as to listen can hear the Right
Accent, is a good one. Also, it may assist
exasperated Australian housewives to hurl
the French language at erring and always
late butcher boys to the mental uplifting of
the same. Even such a small matter as
callings the Champs Elysees by their usual
designation instead of calling them the
Chumps Eliza, after the fashion of Perkyn
Middlewick, the butter-merchant, has a cer-
tain significance. Consul Chayet, by the
way, usually upholds the French tradition of
clothes, in a warm shade of cinnamon brown
(by day) which is coaxed to look as if it still
hung on a tailor’s lay figure. In the evening
he wears the usual sort of thing. At night
he presumably wears the usual sort of thing,
but not being a burglar I haven’t aroused
him at night.
Violinist W. Du Roulay, a punil of Sevcik,
fiddled his way through a pleasing programme
in St. James’s Hall the other evening. A
big helping of Mozart’s honeyed sweetness
opened the programme. This showed the
Du Boulay technique (which lacks nothing
but a fiery touch of the Devil or original
sin to shake some cayenne into it) to less
advantage than the florid music of Wieni-
awski’s Valse Caprice. A tenor and two
lady warblers, who took part in the recital,
had the sincere sympathy of the audience in
their heroic efforts to oblige the company
with vocal items. _ Mrs. Du Boulay at the
piano was the ideal accompanist every
fiddler is looking for.
Artist Thea Proctor is showing her ex-
quisite water-color studies in Anthony Hor-
derns’ fine art gallery. The show, which
is being officially rent asunder—l mean
Francis Suttor, M.L.C., as I
write this missive, will remain open till May
20. Australian artist Thea’s designs for
fans have made a flutter in such august
circles as the 1912 International Exhibition,
Venice, and the 1913 Ghent Exhibition. The
London Times, a journal which swallowed a
poker 100 years ago, and has never quite
recovered, so far unbent as to say of this
fine colorist’s work that it recalled Conder,
with better drawing and more movement.
Miss Proctor returns to London shortly. The
local magnate who is addicted to the pur-
chase of diamonds and motor-cars, ought to
secure a sample of Art (warranted not to
boil) before it is packed up for Europe.
The village of Nelson, tucked away on the
M.L. coast, amongst the hops and apple or-
chards, is shaking itself up in search of new
ideas. It began with a strong leaven of
conservatism as a favorite old-age anchorage
of half-pay naval officers and whole-pay but
decayed folk of other brands, who found it a
retired and salubrious haven. The modern
Nelson, however, is beginning to reach out
for fresh propositions. It is, tired of being
a home for people with locomotor ataxia—
broken but resolute gentlemen, who ask you
out for a walk on a pleasant Sunday after-
noon, and walk like a capital Z, and fall
down periodically in the middle of the road
and the middle of the conversation, because
their legs have suddenly “gone.” You aren’t
allowed to help your fallen companion up.
because that kind of heroic patient would
regard it as an insult if you implied that
anything was wrong with him, or that he
had declined from his perpendicular. So
you continue the discussion in the same old
tone, and lift your feet up and down to sug-
gest that you are still walking, while your
semi-paralysed but valiant companion gathers
himself together. There used to be half a
dozen towns in Australasia where this fall-
ing class of citizen congregated.
But Nelson has gone in for business.
Therefore Mr. Izard, from thereabouts, is
cutting up apples in N.S.W. and inspecting
the wmrm in the centre, in order to decide
whether it is the same worm or a different
one. He has decided that it is. A certain
amount of assistance is being rendered by
the Agricultural Department, and Mr. Izard
hopes to get a sack or two full of brisk no-
tions on Australian methods.
Fiji’s new Attorney-General Young, who
left Sydney for his sunburnt isles early this
week, has had what I suppose is called
“colonial experience” in the Seychelles
groups of islets. To Downing-street intelli-
gence a man who can fulfil the legal duties
of Chief Justice in those lone islands with-
out tying the Empire in a knot is the right
luminary for Fiji. Lawyer Young only spent
a few days here on his arrival from England,
and he didn’t state whether Goat Island is
larger and more beautiful than the Seychelles
or just about the same. The crags of ocean
that the Attorney-General comes from num-
ber about ‘JO, if you count them carefully,
and have now a real live Governor who com-
bines the billet of Commander-in-Chief with
his other duties. When international com-
plications threaten, and his Excellency mobi-
lises half a policeman (1 think that is cor-
rect) it is a great sight. I am told that the
Seychelles aren’t large enough to support a
hotel, but that a widow woman takes in
boarders on an emergency, and that a small
keg of beer is maintained at the back of the
church, the same being fastened by a dog-
chain to the handle of the rear door. So,
even in that quiet region there are some of
the comforts that we look for in London and
Paris and Boggabri, and other great centres
of frivol and dissipation.
Diphtheria is slinking (it’s a sly and
stealthy germ (hat doesn’t fight in the open)
round the Military College at Duntroon.
This news item makes anyone who has seen
that one-time station homestead, where it
peered over at the big woolshed on the flats,
sit up and think. In days gone by, when
dry seasons gave the Duntroon folks a tight
pinch to eke out their water supply, there
must have been a number of underground
wells and other hiding places for the neces-
sary moisture. It is not impossible that, in
the building of new premises and general
titivating of the ancient place into a train-
ing ground for Australia’s babes in arms,
some old cubby-hole of this sort may have
been overlooked, and the ancient microbe,
turning in its grave, may have heard strange
noises overhead and come out to have a look.
At last an alderman named Griffin has
arisen in his might to protest against the
axe. lie belongs to an almost extinct muni-
cipal species, and ought to be caged and ex-
hibited to a wondering public. The sight of
the beautiful umbrageous canopy (I am go-
ing to have that expression varnished and up-
holstered for use during the winter) of a
Moreton Bay fig tree, generally invites a city
father to a frenzy of sudden murder. He
feels like Nero when he rushed out to slay
his mother and become an orphan. He al-
ways wants to hire some able-bodied person
named Simpson and armed with an axe to
go forth and immediately destroy the work of
Nature, and cart away the body to a secret
municipal morgue for dead and gone trees.
At present the municipal magnates are ach-
ing to chop down the huge Moreton figs that
shade the Macquarie-street side of Govern-
ment House grounds. The protest of Aider-
man Griffin isn’t likely to stay the slaughter,
but it is worth recording. It only takes 21
years to make a possible alderman and as
a rule 60 years sees the end of him. The
cedars of Lebanon go back to the time before
aldermen were invented. And the last of
them may endure till the day when an iron
alderman, driven by steam, will blow off
superfluous energy through his escape valve
in the full meeting of the council and sound
his whistle in committee.
The new Governor-General-to-be is taking
his billet very seriously—judging from his
speech at the farewell banquet at the Royal
Colonial Institute. Possibly he feels, like
many British folk who have little or no per-
sonal knowledge of Australasia, that he is
going to actually govern this continent, as
Phillip governed the baby N.S.W. settlement
in its querulous infancy. A tactful and
agreeable figux-ehead, able to make a good
speech at a horse or cattle show, with a love
of sport, if possible, is about the actual size
of . a Gov.-General’s orb of power. It Is
after one of these Excellencies has lived in
Australia, and returned ,to the Cold Land
which lent him. that we look for practical
results. He can then talk to official bigwigs
and baldheads' in London of the things he
knows, instead of solemnly coquetting with
the things he knows not, as in the Munro-
Ferguson address.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


1001.
EFFICIENCY.
ĥg
You can’t beat that—no matter what sphere you labor in.
This standard is achieved in the New 1914 Models of the
3|-h.p. New Hudson
Motor Cycle.
Fitted with an extremely powerful engine and specially built to
incorporate the Armstrong 3-speed Gear and Clutch, this splendid
machine is an engineer’s job right through.
Every feature that tends to perfection is included in the New
Hudson. The. power transmission is direct to the belt rim, variable
gears enable the rider to travel at any speed desired, the Carburetter
is easily accessible and very economical.
A most comfortable machine to ride and easy to handle and control
under all conditions.
The Gear and Clutch Mechanism enables the rider to negotiate
the steepest hills, the roughest roads and the most crowded traffic
with ease and confidence.
THE LATEST HODELS, AS
SUPPLIED TO THE
COMMONWEALTH
GOVERNfIENT, FROJT
£7B/10/- CASH.
Call and inspect these
Machines in our Showrooms.
We will post you our Cata-
logue 836, Post Free, on
request.
BENNETT U BARKELL, Ltd
Agents for New Hudson, Rudge-Whitworth and Triumph
Motor Cycles. Manufacturers of the B. 88. Motor Cycles,
124-132 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
HARDY BROTHERS
LIMITED.
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
Attache Cases
A very useful Present. We have a very
large Stock of these Goods, in a variety
of Fancy Leathers. Inspection invited.
. Leather “Attache” Writing Case, fitted
with Silver Pen, size 14 x 9 inches.
£3/3/-
Write for a copy of our large, illustrated Catalogue. Selections of
Newest Goods sent to the country on approval, if desired.
13 Hunter Street, Sydney ; 118 Queen Street, Brisbane.
AND AT LONDON,
Popular SHILLING NOVELS
‘Bookstall” Series of Australian Books.
THE BEST SELLERS IN AUSTRALIA
(SALES TOTAL 1,500,000 COPIES).
RECENT ADDITIONS
“A Rebel of the Bush.”
By DON DELANEY.
An excellent story of the early days of Aus-
tralia, in which Governor Macquarie figures
prominently. One of the best and brightest
novels ever written round Australian history.
“Tools of Satan.”
By LANCELOT BOOTH.
A sensational story of the murder of a baronet,
and the thrilling adventures that lead to the
heir being discovered in Australia.
“Australian Barkers and
Biters.”
By ROBERT KALESKI.
A most entertaining and instructive book about
the Australian dog. “Nobody has ever written of
dogs in the English language in the same way
Mr. Kaleski writes of them.” — Sunday Sun.
“In the Last Stride.”
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
A' fascinating story of sport and adventure, with
a strong love interest running through it.
SOME FAVORITES:
BUSHRANGING.
HUMOROUS.
Three Years with Thunderbolt.”
By AMBROSE PRATT.
The Convict Pugilist.”
By GEO. COCKERILL.
For Turon Gold.”
By DON DELANEY.
The Missing Link.”
By EDWARD DYSON.
Aboriginalities.”
From “THE BULLETIN.”
A Curate in Bohemia.”
By NORMAN LINDSAY.
AND OVER SEVENTY OTHER NOVELS,
Price I/- each.
Obtainable at all Book**
sellers and Bookstalls in
the Commonwealth.
Posted 1/1.
WRITE FOR COMPLETE CATALOGUE.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
470 George Street, Sydney.
$
M# V^
m
V: '**•
Uj
O
x
o
{~»
f^£>E
MN
Look for the Red S sign in all our Shop Windows.
General Management for Australasia—
Stephen Court, 77=79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.


FARMER’S “VICTOR” RUG
UNSURPASSED VALUE AT A GUINEA.
Farmer’s “Victor” Travelling Rug is a high-
standard quality, the production of one of the fore-
most Australian Mills.
"Victor” Rug is made of Pure Australian
\Y 001, beautifully finished, soft and warm, and has
a very smart appearance.
We have a large range of Designs and Colorings
for selection, one of which is illustrated. Size
60 x 72 inches.
FARMER’S SPECIAL VALUE PRICE,
Farmer’s Pay Carriage to any part of Australia.
FARMER’S
Pitt, Market and
Ceorge Streets
SYDNEY
ĝĥg
THE FASHION PERFUME
OF TO-DAY.
■ X.
ParfGn)
LilaS
Manufactured by
GUSTAV
LOHSE,
BERLIN.
Imitated but not
equalled.
!£*A.O. SCHMIDT, William Street
MELBOURNE.
The
Oriental
Hotel,
MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA’S MODERN HOTEL.
Now open for the reception of Quests.
The most Hygienic Conditions and Refined
Elegance are distinctive features.
Any size suite of compartments.
Tariff from 15/= per day.
ERNEST McINTOSH, General Manager.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, May 4, 1914.
My Dear Yarrie, —
By way of farewell, the G.-G. Denmans
stood on the dais, on Thursdav night, and
inspected 2000 of the Best People—people
whom they had fed during their term with a
devotion worthy of a better cause. Most
of. them were seen to be fatter than when the
reign began; but a few ungrateful ones had
gone back. Perhaps their vittles disagreed
with them. There was the usual gleaming,
blinding motor rush to the scene, and the
same old shining crawl up the drive to the
entrance. But such things have been de-
scribed before, and one might as well make
some reference to “the groaning board” (Dic-
tionary definition : “A plank laid horizontally
round which people groan re the quality of
the wine placed thereon for consumption”),
or write of “a brilliant and distinguished
gathering.” The affair did not begin until
9.30. in order to give the vice-regal diners
time to finish their cigars and scandal. A
few Parliamentarians merely hurried in, saw
their wives and daughters lose themselves in
the gaudy crowd, and then fled back to the
equally idiotic proceedings in the House,
which hasn’t got enough cash to help Maori-
land with the proposed light on the Three
Kings, but can spend days and weeks drivel-
ling. It is almost manslaughter as well as
time-slaughter. When the vice-regal people
had arranged themselves on their perch, and
the attendant Helps had strewed their super-
fluous millinery on the blue plush couch, a
Noah’s Ark procession was formed, two and
two. round the room. Tally-men saw that
the order was preserved, and that no one
broke away across the centre iff the room
until they had shown their tickets. Cham-
berlain Nevill was ticket-examiner, and he
murmured names into his Ex.’s inclined ear.
I don’t quite recollect the order of the per-
formance, but think it was as follows: First
the G.-G. shook hands with the patient; then
her Ex. shook hands; after that the butler
patted him on the back, the head gardener
pulled his leg and the cook borrowed a shil-
ling and kissed him. (On second thoughts,
I don’t think it could have gone beyond
the hand-shaking; but the other turns
should have been introduced to give it
a touch of novelty and excitement.)
Her Ex. had the blue velvet canopy
and drapes as background for her white and
silver dress and sparkling diamonds, and I
must sav she looked impressive. The blue
satin chairs were unroped (like the guests),
but the crowd had no time to sit down.
Strong hints were given by the hustling
Helps that the show was to be an
early one. Denman looked ill, and the
bulge in the chest of his Court uni-
form suggested red-flannel chest protec-
tors, porous plasters and other medical com-
forts. His lady broke the rule of the
hay-fevered domicile by having. cut chrysan-
themum blooms in gold baskets in every avail-
able place. Supper was a buffet spread, and
the most experienced feeders secured places
handy to the carved turkey and champagne.
One weightv, bare-shouldered dame of title
keut her place like a heroine, while wretched
nibblers and sippers came and went. Ap-
parently she had tossed up years before as to
whether it was to be Appetite or Figure, and
Appetite had won amidst loud applause.
The Stanley lady made a pretty picture on
the Dutch-blue carpet, in wallflower-brown
velvet and nothing much beyond ivory tulle
on her shoulders. Mrs. Hennessy wore a mag-
nificent blue dress —or perhaps it was shell
pink, or plain red with white stripes. The
Barttelot dame looked well in black velvet.
University people were there in masses. Mrs.
Professor Lyle showed a Marie Antoinette
cap amid the ospreys and feathers, and
Mrs. Bigjohn Forrest arrived unexpectedly
from the West, in clothes that were so beau-
tiful that I have completely forgotten them.
Squattocracy came in flocks —but of course
squattocracy goes to everything in flocks.
The Falkiners, of Widgewa. who have been
entertaining vice-regal people at the sleepy
homestead, were on hand, and Mrs. Pursey
Chirnside wore a dress that was startling
above the waist-line, and sun-rayed with
steel beads from waist to knee. Her entry
was sensational and entirely successful; but,
unfortunately, a latecomer appeared wearing
exactly the same type of costume. For that
crime some dress-builder will have to offer
satisfactory explanation, or suffer the con-
sequences, which will be execution in the
backyard. Mrs. Inglis wore bright lettuce-
green—a sort of thank-Heaven-the-drought’s-
over effect. Mrs. Captain Hall, in blue and
gold, matched her husband’s uniform nicely,
and her sister’s Parisian costume of old rose
and silver, was a poem in rags. A final
select supper to the Pride of the Market,
amidst scarlet dahlias, wound up the famine
relief proceedings of the amiable pair. The
Denmans have endeared themselves to the
digestions of many people who really should
get enough to eat in their own homes.
A Voice from the Graves —a man’s voice:
“Last Saturday afternoon, for the first time
in its long and honorable career, our old
original cemetery at West Melbourne was
enlivened by a vice-regal function. Pony
Governor Stanley came along on his own, in
a dark-grey suit, to hoist a laurel wreath
half-way up the plain, inexpensive column
on John Batman’s grave. It was a poor,
home-made wreath, quite in keeping with
other features of the ceremonial in that
dilapidated God’s-acre. Two or three little
squads of Boy Scouts were the guard of
honor at the approach to the grave. Gaud
Mayor Hennessy went down to meet the Gov.
when his motor landed him amidst the for-
gotten mounds and broken tombstones, and
together they sauntered to a bit of a platform
erected over the place where Batman was
buried exactly 75 years ago. Old folks and
Boy Scouts constituted the bulk of the
audience, what time the inevitable speeches
were being uttered from the platform, and
hymns by the “festival choir” (Batman’s
festival, perhaps) were proceeding from
somewhere behind the platform. One or
two men in the crowd ostentatiously took
their hats off, as though they were in church,
when the feeble assemblage struck up “The
Long Day Closes,” which scared a number of
other ancients into likewise revealing their
baldness, but the weather was so good at
the time that nobody broke the solemnity
with a sneeze. Among the speechers, lawyer
Brennan, M.P. for the Cemetery district,
scored the most points, but Gov. Stanley ran
him close. The early history of Victoria
is his Ex.’s strong subject. He has read
it up. And he talked quite interestingly
about Batman days for quite a long time.
Afterwards he had to sit and listen bare-
headed to more speeches for about an hour,
whilst the motley gathering was going to
pieces. A few visitors had dropped into the
function, it seemed, not so much on account
of Batman’s deathday anniversary, as to
make inquiries about the bit of cemetery
which the City Council or somebody pro-
poses to add to the adjacent vegetable
market. It is the Jewish section of the old
Cem., and the idea is to remove the four or
five tombstones of long-forgotten Hebrews to
the south end of the eraveyard. Surely
no surviving distant relative of the deceased
can object to the proposed shifting of tomb-
stones. Where they stand at present is a
fenced-off reserve, behind the house of the
caretaker. The Jewish quarter is not in
the Cemetery proper. The caretaker’s house
was built on some of it, some of it was
dug up to make flowerbeds, and the remain-
ing portion is backyard. Close to where the
late Montefiore lies sleeping the caretaker’s
fowls are laying eggs.
A Gentleman Help of the Denman house-
hold is being called away from these shores
just when he is immersed in a sentimental
episode. The girl in the case is the daughter
of one of the richest wool families of the
Western District, and the lynx-eyed chaper-
ones are prophesying an early engagement. A
squatter’s wife has been making things easy
for the devoted pair by inviting the girl to
her station home when the Help was around.
A fine old lady—a once well-known and
plucky follower of the Melbourne Hounds —
had an exciting experience the other day that
proved her nerve to be as steady as ever.
A horse harnessed to a cart laden with soft
drinks got mixed up with a tram in which she
was travelling. There was a series of
crashes and screams, and the air was filled
with flying bottles, brown streaks of ginger-
ale, harness ends and waving hoofs. Every-
body was confused and helpless. The old
lady alone sat tight and offered a few words
of advice that helped materially to clear up
the tangle. When the other women passen-
gers had arranged themselves in a row on the
kerbstone and were straightening their hats
and nerves, the old lady was busily engaged
trying to comfort a frightened child. That
job done, she boarded another tram and went
her way. If she felt sorry for anyone it was
the badly-driven ginger-beer horse.
Cook-sculptor Webb-Gilbert is off for a
course of European study with rich Ameri-
can Myers as his backer; so the past week
has been punctuated joyously with farewells.
Artist Hal Gye organised one dinner party,
and the Victorian Artists had a good-bye
spread on Saturday night.
Clarence Dyason, who ranks as one of the
big mining men of Bendigo, and has always
been rated as a matrimonial catch, is to
marry Miss McClure, a charming young per-
son. Clarence’s sister, Emily Dyason, is
the pianiste who has been lecturing about
the composer with the sneezy name under
whom she studied for so long.
Dr. Nyulasy is housing some of the Maori-
land Medical Congress people who have come
over for the jubilee of the Melbourne Uni-
versity Medical School. The bachelor doc-
tor has just one sister now to hostess for
him and chaperone him to functions. (You
will remember, my dear Yarrie, unless your
memory has entirely failed, that, when he
went across to Maoriland for the recent
Congress, he gave the other sister in holy
matrimony to a good, kind man who wanted
to buy someone else’s hats for the rest of
his natural life.)
The newly-wedded Mrs. Kenneth Niall has
descended on this city to welcome sister Mrs.
Carr-Walker who is fresh or frozen from
England. They are both staying with the
parental Griffiths, at Toorak, and are attend-
ing the current frivols in clothes that are
calculated to madden all feminine specta-
tors.
Winnie Honey, the artistic scholarship
winner with the doll-like profile, was busy in
London painting her Australian picture,
when the thing was slashed by a suffragette.
It really looks as if Winnie had hired that
hatchetejffe to give her an ad., for, on her
merits, she was rather small game for the
militant theatricals.
The Repertory Theatre Club got a thous-
and pounds out of the Denman furniture and
old clo’ venture. The Club’s legitimate share
(after the Arts and Crafts people had col-
lected their tenth) was a mere £BBO. But
the Denman lady coaxed the A. & C. to
hand over an extra £2O, and make the other
lot an even £9OO. That much accomplished,
the insatiable vice-regal lady extracted an
extra £lOO from some rich people she had
stayed with in the country, and so made up
£looo—which is a nice round sum and very
pleasing to stand off and look at. The Arts
and Crafts did a great deal of the work in
connection with the exhibition, and their
self-sacrifice reminds one of the worm that
didn’t turn.
State Governor Stanley opened the Vic-
torian Artists’ show last week with some
difficulty, being short of intelligent remarks
or something of the kind. He usually starts
off with a carefully arranged speech that
fairly gleams with midnight electricity; but
he is rarely able to stick to the point—not
that it matters in the slightest. On Monday
last he burbled along more or less about Art,
all the time casting appealing looks at his
pretty wife, who, I understand, really knows
something about picture-making. (Now for
the real business!) Her Ex. wore a peanut-
shaped hat that looked as if it might have
cost Is. 6d. in Chapel-street; but it was
adorable on her head. An ordinary woman,
if she were rash enough to make the same ex-
periment, would probably be denounced and
crossed off every visiting book in her suburb.
(Perhaps, after all, the hat cost ever so
many guineas, and its plainness was the
highest form of Art.) The Best Fed, as usual,
crowded the stairs, looked critically at the
things on the wall, and tried to make appro-
priate noises, but mostly failed. Some of
the artists hadn’t shaved for days, and the
living originals of a few of the pictures
trailed round in the regulation droopy
clothes. Also Bernard Hall wore lemon or
yellow gloves. I don’t know why.
A mixed show of the work accomplished
by five young Arts and Crafts enthusiasts
is due in the Centreway, on Tuesday, May
12. Viola Jackson is the only girl in the
bunch, and her job is leather work. Her
four young men associates are Henry Har-
vey (sculpture), Tommy Pridgeon (home-
made jewellery), Harold Herbert (water
color painting), and Mr. Tompkins. I am
not quite sure what Mr. Tompkins does and
I give him the prefix “Mr.” because I have
forgotten his Christian name. The unin-
vited are urged not to sit at home and grieve
over the non-arrival of a gilt-edged card,
but to come along and view the show.
Marshall Lyle had a good idea for a Reper-
tory Ball set. He wasn’t anxious to get
into fancy dress, and a lot of his friends felt
the same way. So he organised a “Butter-
fly on the Wheel” gang and sent out word
that anybody in ordinary dress could join in
as spectators in the court scene. He him-
self reserved one of the barrister’s parts,
and Dr. Maloney’s 17-year-old daughter, a
pretty wisp of a girl, was cast for the part
of the Butterfly who was caught on the legal
Wheel.
The jubilee of the Melbourne University
Medical School has been joyously raising the
old dust. The women graduates had a din-
ner of their own at the Oriental Hotel, where
they carefuly imitated, as far as was possible
or convenient, the time-honored feeding pro-
cedure of mankind. The jubilee opened last
week with a party at the University, with
State Governor Stanley and his lady in the
centre of the vortex. The tea occurred in
the stuffy place that was once the Museum,
and I may remark right away that no amount
of varnish will ever rid the place of the
smell the whale left behind it. The Fox
painting of President Allen was unveiled
with much ceremony and a bouquet of 10-
minute speeches. The wives of the profes-
sors supplied the tea and cakes and lent their
own silver and china. One of them was
incautious enough to say that the prepara-
tion for the spree was much better than the
spree itself; but she was immediately sup-
pressed and taken away kicking in a bag.
There is a long programme of jubilations to
be performed, and every suburban medicine
man is rushing his daily visits in order to
be on hand.
Mr. and Mrs. Phillips Fox’s joint show
(scheduled to open on May 5) will remain
so until May 16. The Denmans have prom-
ised to climb the Athenmum stairs and have
a look round.
There is to be a Tango supper at the
Hyams’ new ballroom in Flinders-street,
next Saturday. The Tango class is giving the
spread by way of a “bon voyage” to George
Morgan, of the Dandies, and Elsa Langley
and H. L. Austin, of the Pierrots, who are
off to Britain in a week or two. The three
young people learned their tango from the
energetic Hyams sistern, and were among
the first to introduce the awful disease to
Melbourne audiences.
Harry Lauder has never been ill in his
life; but, directly he tells you so, little
Mrs. Lauder implores him to touch wood,
and Harry dutifully does so, bumping his
forehead as a placatory act to the gods.
Fellow-artists say the time to hear him talk
freely is just after the show. Then he rattles
along in high feather and recapitulates his
successes of the evening. “Hear the laugh I
got from the fat man in the front stalls?”
or “I broke up the ‘dreuth’ of that dour body
in the box before curtain, eh?”
Concert artists who come here in the wake
of stars all seem to think Australia a good
proposition from a box otlice point of view.
Jacques Pintel, pianist, is the latest to pay a
return visit on his own. Jacques was the
little, plump, pale accompanist of the fiery
Calve; but he is capable of an interesting
show all by himself. On Thursday night he
gave quite a brilliant musical party in the
Auditorium, when he tore off some attractive
compositions by Russian musicians, as well
as a few of his own* brewing. The audience
seemed to be the same old audience that goes
loyally to all the high-grade noises.
The Town Hall will have been aired some-
what before the famous Terry lady gives her
first discourse there to-night (Thursday).
Another of Edward Goll’s piano recitals
came due on Tuesday, this week, and the
Town Hall, not the Auditorium, is the place
where Goll reveals the soul of Chopin and
makes his audience feel good. So the muni-
cipal barn will not seem quite out of the
running for the Elect when they come to
hear what Ellen has to say about Shaks-
peare’s heroines and her sweet old self.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The Queen Adelaide Club extended the mitt of wel-
come to Lady Galway on Monday. The mitt in
question took the form or disguise of a lunch. The
new dining-room where the meal occurred was hardly
able to recognise itself, so crammed was it with
roses and autumn leaves and Sheffield plate, and so
forth. Sixteen committee-women put on their best
clothes, and saw that the bottle was passed round
with regularity and dispatch. Lady Galway wore
black, and looked charming.
On Tuesday the club stood her tea —people need
food badly after a long P. &0. voyage. About 150
members flooded the new rooms in a laudable attempt
to show the new-comer what the youth, wealth and
beauty of Adelaide could do in the way of clothes.
She seemed paralysed with admiration; but the look
may merely have meant, on the other hand, that she
wished to goodness she was back home in a com-
fortable wrapper and with a cigarette handy. Looks
are baffling things to interpret when you come to
think of it. Thue reception-room wore gilded baskets
of autumn leaves, tied with bows of gold gauze; one
tea-room was studded or garnished with pink and
mauve chrysanthemums, in bowls of Ruskin china;
and in another were brass bowls of salmon-pink
dahlias and delphiniums. The third was a mass of
roses and ferns. The general effect was something
fierce. Lady Galway wore amethyst crepe de Chine,
and the C.J.’s dame inhabited oyster-colored bro-
caded crgpe de Chine. Mrs. Bronte Smeaton’s smart
frock of Indian red was topped by a black hat, and
Mrs. Herbert Rymill and Mrs. Napier Birks were in
blue. Mrs. W. Margarey and Mrs. Dudley Hayward
looked well, and so did about 140 others. The
names and addresses of the Ten Horrors who wore
pre-historic garments and ruined hats shall not be
divulged publicly by me this side of the tomb.
The W. It. Bakewells put in the first few days
of their honeymoon at the John Downers’ house at
Aldgate. They are now in Melbourne—that is, if
they haven’t already passed on to Sydney.
Mrs. H. H. Wigg and her daughter and Miss Alice
Campbell are also travelling. As against this there
is the fact that Mr. Russell, of Sydney, and his
daughter are the guests of the John Downers on
Pennington Terrace. You will remember that the
Downer lady was a Russell.
The North Adelaide Golf Club was opened for the
season on Saturday last, with afternoon-tea and a
competition or two. Miss Sanderson and Miss
Angove and Mr. Beresford and Mr. Horton secured
the competition prizes, and most of the guests
secured afternoon-tea. The Way dame was there, and l
Mrs. Bishopscourt Thomas, also Mr. and Mrs. W.
Pope, Mrs. Eversley Thomas, Miss Herring and Miss
Horn, Mrs. 11. Martin, and Mr. and Mrs. W. B.
Wilkinson.
The Fortnight’s Fair in aid of the Blind Institute,
which opened in the Exhibition Building on Friday
afternoon, promises to be the bazaar of the century
as far as this village is concerned. For weeks —yea,
months- —committees scattered in every corner of
Suburbia and in. every country town have been work-
ing to collect funds and materials for the various
stalls. And now the looting has begun in earnest.
Concerts, pageants and the rest have been planned—
in a word, none of the conventional lures of our
modern civilisation have been overlooked. If this
prosperous community doesn’t ante up a deal of its
superfluous cash in the good cause there will be
astonishment, not to say fury, in the bosoms of right-
thinkers. (I haven’t used that expression since
childhood. Then the printer made it read “tight
drinkers,” and I was blamed for his error and van-
ished into a cloud of disgrace.)
Another of the Kidman maidens has gone to Eng-
land with a gemmed ring on her finger ; and Gilbert
Monks is the young man who had the joy of paying
the bill. The girl is Elsie, of the family of the
late Sackville, the “Cattle-King’s” older brother.
She is on the Medina, which by this time ought to
be as near as it can get to Cheshire, where the
young man’s people live and the cheese and the cat
come from.
Dr. Ramsay Smith, coroner and hygiene expert in
Adelaide, has told a Register interviewer that the
present much-abused fashion in woman’s dress is
really an absolute reform, the “true hygienic policy
of dressing,” having at last been stumbled on —by
accident, no doubt. The air that gets to the skin, the--
doctor claims, is at least as important as the air that k-
is breathed. Woman is properly ventilated now!
Then R. Smith unwisely abandoned the position of
expert for that of prophet, and made the reckless fore-
cast that “the fair sex have discovered that these-
latest fashions of theirs are so comfortable that thev
will never depart from them.” As if that would
trouble them, when some self-appointed male author-
ity in Paris sends word that they are to dress some
other way!
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


II
aSSfcsMiy __ I
:
• '*• •• ’
'
SR- «
■
SB I#:
■
insm
wm
m
\ ■■
£
mm
mm
h fe
■ ■
.
mmm
C'M \ i;3
fen
m
i
1F„
£»*£
S
••
T . '
A
mmm
$
Joseph Simpson, R.B.A.
Copyright. John Dewar & Sons, Lta.
KING ROBERT THE BRUCE
This Picture is the Eighth of a Series of colored Portraits of Famous Scots published by
JOHN DEWAR & SONS, L TD " scotch whisky Distillers, Perth & London


V.
r-s i
Mirrors
and*
Glass
Ware
Always
bnghi
and clean •
afte-
Bon Ami. i
m
VA
For
Kitchen
Ware
The
Bon Ami
way is
the
easiest
way
Bon Ami
Bon Ami
/h
rr Scmichcd Yell
The operation takes jus' one work-
ing minute and leaves the mirror
brilliant.
<Bs
Brilliantly polish up your pots ket-
tles and pans with Bon Ami—it's
perfect.
p
The World's Best.
DAIMLER
Motor Lorry.
.Silent Knight Engine.
SHaft Drive— No Chains.
fgh
SUNSHINE
Motor Cars P’t'y
Melbourne.
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney & Adelaide,
Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Pick”: Because he was eowpunrhor on a
Jamberop dairy where no tests were made to deter-
mine the qualifications of the female joss, “A.J.W.”
(B. 9/4/’l4) calls me a N.S.AV. Labor Government,
a deficit and a suspended sinking fund, and declares
that scientific dairying is an unknown quantity on
the South Coast of the Ma State. The great majority
of South Coast dairymen do not make up their own
stuff at all. They supply to a factory (generally a
co-operative concern), where they are paid only by
tlie butter-fat-test results. Their inclination towards
profit, therefore, impels them to work scientifically
for the betterment of their herds. 1 lived for 16
years amongst South Coast dairymen, and never met
one who could not tell me how much Strawberry or
Brindle was worth to him per month. Then, in
order to check the factory manager’s estimate of
his butter-fat yield, every dairyman invests in a
milk-tester. They are cheap enough (355., or there-
abouts), and as milk-testing is a special practical
lesson taught in nearly all dairying-centre schools the
youngsters can keep the records if, as “A.J.W.” says,
the boss cocky doesn’t do it himself. To conclude, I
wish to tell “A.J.W.” that 1 am not a Labor Govern-
ment,■ and I am no relation whatever to the £4 per
day which was paid to Neilscn. If he hints again
that I am any of these things, 1 will shoot him dead
with a brick.
“• ’lovebuid’ : This northern climate plays
the very devil with people, and leaves them as limp
as the snake you killed last week, i was building
some additions,td a school 'away back from Atherton
(X.Q.), and, when the work was well forward (the
Place had the floors down and the roof on) the
school committee approached me and asked to be
allowed to hold a hall before I ran the partitions up.
I held out long enough to extract an indemnity should
an\ of the revellers fall out of (lie building (the
school was on the side of a one in two hill, and
was on 15ft. blocks on one side), and then gave the
glad word. I hat committee got busy, and a cart
was sent for McNub’s piano. MeNab lived a mere
matter of nine miles off. The carter was instructed
lo call at three pubs on the return journey, and col-
lect 20 dozen of soft stuff that had been promised.
1 judged, when 1 saw him arrive at the foot of the
lull at about 5.30 p.m., that if lie had collected
ouly soft stuff' it hadn’t agreed with him. lie was
bolding emphatic converse with a part of the com-
mittee that had just returned from a five-mile jaunt
in search of herbage for decorations. “Dyer mean
lei say 1 earn t drive this flamin’ chariot?” lie
asked acrimoniously. “W'y, spare me days, 1 c’d
drive her outer Ararat.” Some murmur from the
committee then reached me. Whatever it was it
roused the Jehu to a state of cold fury. “You run
ei long with yer goats browse,” lie admonished sar-
castically, “’ n w’en I wants ’elp I’ll-’oiler.” lie
started off up the hill, and hung his team to a road
that looked like a cycling track on edge, lie nearly
beat it, too, only that when taking the last corner,
where the surveyor had suddenly changed his mind
he took his attention off the business in hand in’
order to hurl some abuse at the perspiring com-
mittee, and worse things happened than befell at
Molia cz field. 1 gave a hand with the debris
and counted six bottles not broken. McNab’s piano
bad received the rest in its bosom. 1 opined there
would be no ball that night. I was mistaken, how-
ever, as about 20 couples were going strong when
, . turned l 'P at 10.30 p.m., and expressed my admira-
tion of their ability to overcome difficulties: “Oh,
we re all right,” the committeeman answered. “But
the girls are sufferin’. ’Arf of them ’as their fingers
tied up now.” J noted it to be true, and murmured
some inane query as to whether'something couldn't
NEWS THAT TRAVELS.
COW COCKY HOST: “The piece from Sydney
with feathers in 'er ’air darncin' with
Dave is goin’ to marry 'im. He is milkin’
20 a day.”
WHISKERED VISTOR: “ Twenty a day. Then,
by tripes, that’s what brought ’er up.
News like that soon gets down there.”
bo done. “No,” ho replied sadly, “it gets at them
even when they plays with gloves on.” I looked at
the gloved pianiste, who was gingerly coaxing the
Lancers out of McNab’s stricken piano, . and "as 1
looked she marked time with one hand while with
the other she picked out a fragment of a ginger-ale
bottle that had worked up between the keys" She
repeated this 14 times before the set was finished
and left the piano incapacitated. They told me
next morning that the supply of musicians lasted
until a.in., when they finished on a Jew’s harp
I only wondered why someone did not think of tack-
ling the proposition with thimbles on; but what’ 1
saw convinced me that they were a spineless lot
of'aU energy.° had juSt ab<Jllt depleted’
FOR SECRET SERVICE.
SNORKY: “ Ow did ye get on wif
the old girl, Skinny?”
SKINNY: “ She’s a artless woman ,
Snorky. Think wot she done
when I arst ’er t’ give me some-
thing to keep body and
soul together?"
SNORKY: "Can't
imagine.”
SKINNY: "She
gimme a
safety pin.’
Gouger : I have noticed that men living
among the mountains of N.Q., where for the major
part of the year the climate is cool and the rainy
season is regular, have mostly got black hair. I have
known men with light brown hair to have a crop of
almost black hair after a 12-months sojourn amongst
these mansions in the skies. When I came to the
mountains uncharitable people called mv auburn
locks “ginger”; now the aforesaid locks are of a
fine, glossy murk. Likewise a mate of mine, whose
head foliage was prematurely grey, is now midnight
color at the end he ought to think with but doesn't.
“The Pariah”: At Bright (Vic.) three
miners broke into a wombats’ burrow, which, on in-
vestigation, was proved to have penetrated just over
100 ft. from the surface. This, is fairly strenuous
labor for an animal of the wombat size. Is there any
estimate of the wombat’s age or antiquity? Bones of
him have been found in the limestone below the first
lava flow from the Warrions (Vic.), and it is a long
tinee billion generations since that district was the
Devils distillery. AVhile speaking of birds may I
mention that the goldfinch is becoming very common
in the bush south and cast of Colac (Vie.). He makes
**■ joyous addition to our forest
life, and, to judge from the num-
ber of nests 1 have seen in the
past three months, he is going
to obey the Creator's injunction
to multiply and replenish the
earth. [And then, just when the
editor hoped that his correspond-
ent was going to throw some light
on the sources of the Amazon, the
shortest road to the South Pole,
and the causes of water hyacinth,
and the smell of crocodiles, this
diffuse contributor broke off. What
is the good of a diffuse contributor who breaks off?
He is in the same category as a headless and stoniach-
less commentator without feet.]
“Mimosa”: In a recent Uuixutin pur. a
writer wanted to know how it is that “bribing” (or
wrongly called biltong) had never been used to anv
extent in Australia, as it is in S. Africa. The
reason is that the process of making the right goods
is a secret. This scribe had his fare paid from
S’Africa for the express purpose of showing one of
the leading Australian meat works the way to make
the proper Boer article. The Australian experiment
was most successful, and the article was. sold on the
South African markets as “dor beste Boeren beltong.”
'the beste beltong sold for years was in the years
1906 and 1907, and S’African'ders, who will remember
the splendid quality of the goods during these years,
may be surprised to know it was Australian and not
Afrikander beltong. Before the meat was turned into
beltong it was. worth sd. per lb., and when it became
a pound of beltong it was worth, with handlin'*"
salt and pepper, 7id. per lb., or BJd. per lb. landed fn
S Africa, and the price realised there ran from Is. 3d
to 3s. per lb. But Australia would not act up to
instructions, and lost the business by puttin- too
much pepper and salt on the goods, notwithstanding
that they were advised that the first four shipments
(each of an average of 10,0001 b. weight) were all
that could be wished. South America now gets a
little of the making of “Boer” beltong.
‘ Ivaneiry” : Verily, ( lie press is a mighty
uplifter of knock-kneed, dispirited subscribers! There
was I, a nebulous cocky on the ragged embroidery
of Watt’s trailing outskirts, when I read about the
spineless cactus. 1 was in a condition to give up
entirely, when the local paper told of a wonderful
plant, familiar in America, but little known in
Ibis ignorant land. On one acre, according to my
t onnt of knowledge, could be grown enough cactus to
keep 100 sheep rolling-fat for a year. In case too
many bad, avaricious men should see that para-
graph, and obliterate Victoria with the vegetable,
and bring down (lie price of sheep to a farthing a
bead before I had time to g-et rich, 1 cut the news out
and put heavy weights on it to keen it from blowing
away. Then came the revelation that the first impor’
DEAR MEAT.
In the stock markets prices almost suggestive of
famine are ruling. —Sydney Telegraph.
An amusing invention at present being in-
troduced into Australia. The more you pay
the higher goes the meat.
tation of cactus from America by an American irri-
gatiomst at Rochester (Vie.) had been seized bv the
( ustoms as a noxious weed ! So this is the function
or the omnipotent press—to lift you bv the collar and
the seat and put you on a spire, and' then drop von
to the pavement and leave you lying- there, a heap of
mangled hopes and unpaid bills.
(Continued on page 24.)
THE WAITRESS SPEAKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hot to this old refreshment room half-wav out to
the West—
-I'rom Coonamble and Bourke and Cobar the trains
come in.
"heat buyers spilling sample bags of wheat that’s
always “the best
That ; ever was reaped,” says the farmer (so steeping
his soul in sin) ;
Two Irish terriers playing on the station the whole
day long;
Ihe shriek of the flour mill whistle at eight o'clock
and six ;
Shunting an’ noises an’ rattle till they make them-
selves into a song\
laird knows what 1 done to deserve such a box, o’
tricks,
W aitress in the refreshment room, serving the hnm-rv
men, °
Smiling to wearied women though I feel that 1 want
to yell,
And my legs ache ’sif they were beaten, and 1 pad
like a bear in a den,
Flat-footed round with the old corn beef while 1 pray
for the starting hell.
I here s a fly in the sugar basin and a blowfly caught
in the pane,
And I .feel they’re beating with hammers, like the
noises of shunting and trains.
And I let ’em, being weary enough not to trouble to
free ’em again,
And 1 wait and listen until their buzzing addles mv
brains.
Ino hours “rest” in the hot afternoons- -so hot you
can only melt—
Down at four-thirl.v at tables with a new blue bow
in my hair;
I'eet so weary and dead that you seem to be walking
on felt—
Or velvet or water or moss, soft and flat-footed like
a bea r.
So back to the sweating cabbage and the corn beef
angry and red,
betting right for the hungry people in the six-thirtv
up from Bourke.' jfc
With a spud and a bit of spinach in its electro-
plated bed, / ft
And then customer and waitress—feet, hands, teeth
b-*all go to work
1 s pose it made me lireder to .see him with his
bride,
( onfetti all over his collar anti vest, and trying to
look quite old
By glancing down quite frequent at the pink fool by
- liis side,
An’ him helpin’ her gently to tucker as if she was
made of gold.
I ryin’ to look, as if he’d been married for twenty
■'•-years,
An givin hipiself away by beggin’ her pardon twice;
Looking down at her neck—his eyes sugary with
“my dears,”
And bending to take from her carrotty hair a grain
of. rice.
She d all her jewellery on—bamboo bangles and rings,
And sat there flashing her fingers and politely eating
a chook ; '
And he ate roast beef underdone—when not lookin’
such heavenly things
And givin himself away, as if it were wrote in a
book ;
Asking- if she took sugar an’ milk, or if she took
sugar alone,
Or if she took milk without sugar, until it got right
on me brain—■
Me, juggling with cups an’ saucers an’ plates an’
beef underdone—
And 1 prayed more than ever that the Lord would
hurry' and start the train.
Lut when it had gone I found in his saucer —rice;
And where she had sat was confetti, and them gone
away to start life.
And as I carried the dishes I said to mvself he was
nice,
And it isn’t my fault I’m single and shells a brand-
new wife.
An Ive got a chap out prospecting, an’,, as soon as
he finds a lot,
Its good-bye for me to this juggling, of cups, and
the flat-footed service of grills ;
Its good-bye for me to the noises of shunting on
rails nigh red-hot;
To the shriek of the engines and the rioi-v- that ill
my life tangles and kills ;
To the terriers that play on the'platform the whole
day through,
The scream of' the flour-mill whistle at ■ six o’clock
and at eight,
The hungry and hurried travellers-whose name for a*
girl’s “Hey, you”—•
Brea,use the burdens* of tucker seem fastened to her
by fate.
So in the blessed hope of brief singleness I pad with
the toast and bread,
Like a bear flat-footed in a bakery, though the oxer- *
cise isn’t nice, ,
Hoping for when the parson asks, “Will vou this
woman wed ?”
And confetti will hide in - his necktie and in mn
blouse theredl he rice.
x.s.w.
LOUD PENMAN.


BUCKLEY’S
Silent, Easy Running Machines
The Best Obtainable in the Commonwealth.
A REVOLUTION IN PRICES.
XsB2—The Silent
“Empress” Improved Lock-
stitch Hand Machine, on
Walnut base, multiplying ac-
tion, fitted with new auto-
matic bobbin winder and full
set of attachments.
Complete with handsome Wal-
nut Cover
Cash Price
■-v* //V~Z~'?
XsBl—The Silent “Empress” No.
2 Improved Lockstitch Hand and Treadle
Machine, on rigid iron frame, with polished
quartered Walnut Table, fitted with one drawer.
This machine is detachable, and can he used
quite apart from the stand. Otherwise as Silent
“Empress.” Complete with Walnut Cover
Cash Price 8716
XsB3—The Silent “Perfecta” im-
proved Lockstitch Hand and Treadle Machine,
with extra-large table and four drawers, in
polished, quartered Walnut on Black and Gilt
Stand; complete with cover and full set of
attachments. Very light and easy running. We
have every confidence in recommending this
machine.
Cash Price ... ii6/10j"
These machines will do anything a higher-priced one will do —tine, soft, silk,
or the heaviest cloth and every conceivable class of Fancy Work, Embroidery, etc.,
etc., it. works with equal adaptability and ease.
Needles and All Duplicate Parts Kept in Stock.
Obtainable only from
MELBOURNE’S PREMIER STORE,
BUCKLEY & NUNN LIMITED
BOURKE STREET
NELSON’S “VICTORY”
AIR GAS
MACHINE
The “Victory” is the most
triumphant Air Gas Machine
that has ever been placed
before the public. It is in
truth a model of perfection
and is absolutely the last
word in the Air Gas System.
It enables every man to
possess his own gasworks in
a little corner of his premises
and make a better,
cheaper, cleaner gas at
infinitely less cost than by
any other system.
tfcTOß*
The “VICTORY” can claim to be abso-
lutely safe. There is no possible danger
of explosion, for the best of all reason-; there
is no Gas, only air, at any time in the
machine. When burners are turned on. the
gas is practically made as it flow's through
the pipes.
Air Gas is unequalled for Lighting, Cooking, floating and Rower, and is
perfectly clean and odorless.
It produces a brilliant, clear, steady light, soft;and gentle to the eye. 100 per
cent, cheaper than any other luminant. This means a big. direct saving. Abso-
lute satisfaction is guaranteed, becai se of the efficiency of the machine
and its downright economic value. Save big bills and cease waste and worry by
installing a “VICTORY” Air Gas Machine.
FROM £.25.
This machine is particularly suitable for Town or Country Hotels and Residences.
If you are interested in this big money-saving machine, write to us at once for
fuller information. Your inquiry will receive a prompt reply.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.
219 George Street (Circular Quay), Sydney
Agents—NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. Ltd., 124 Roma Street, BRISBANE.
A. B. HADDEN, 35 Barrack Street, PERTH.
„4i_
»''2
P
Jj >f///
“ *u,
%
4*o.
%
4te
H
dvi
.. ~A
,M Xtf
IV .•'••
i/ /Au.
Thffjji. f
V. M
“•■•.. . AvV
MV.
\\i 'i
>\\
CONDENSED
*<>
w <?
N Vf! 5 A fe* sWlss coNDflorp^ 0
Lomdon— Storitv-
v<?avw ggr^rr
Fresh and Pure
from Australia’s
t\A
Fertile Pastures.
Nestles.
Condensed MnK-


fg
1 I' 1 ■ wVT
fIWSHrTT iTTmT
ĝh
Sporting
Ammunition.
Used by all Sportsmen requiring
the best.
KYNOCtt MADE
BONAX”
KYNOCH LOADF.r,
All Component Parts are manu»
factured and put together in our
own factory.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH-
-360=6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
STOMACH TROUBLES.
Laxo-Tonic Pills are a most effective remedy for
Biliousness and all irregularities of the stomach and
bowels. They act quickly and effectually, without
weakening the system, as is the case with most medi-
cines used for these troubles. Price, lOid. and Is. 6d.
Obtainable everywhere.*
We are Born t»
offer Benefits
AUSTRALIANS!!
INSURE
IN
THE
■O.A
Fire, Marine, Accident, Live Stock.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
a/q/seodu/t aj./no bug/aMg put> butpaatg
45'
f \\ closing
J EMASCULATOR.
W'SAFETY”
Emasculator
does away with all
risk of bleeding-.
Postage Free 45/-
My “Hints on Castrating ” j
enable any man used to Stock
to cut with the “Safety”
either Colts, Bulls, Rams, or
Boars.
Other patterns of g O/ . fco SQ/ .
Emaseulators from *
Zoeller’s “Handy"
Castrating Knife, 3/6
is a lovely bit of Steel.
Carl Zoeller,
246 Queen St.,
BRISBANE, Q.
Send for aomplete
Veterinary Catalog.
It's FREE
Tekelo”: The time is nearly due to sing
the swan song of the yamberas, the beautiful and
graceful war-canoes of the Western Solomons. With
the passing of the present generation of old men
native naval architecture will become a lost art. It
supplied one of the finest examples of native craft-
manship in the Pacific. The decay of head-hunting
and the growth of trade is responsible. To-day the
native gathers a few thousand cocoanuts and buys a
prosaic dinghy or cutter. He finds this more con-
genial than spending laborious months in the construc-
tion of a marine poem of wood and shell. Only on
rare occasions nowadays are these dwindling fleets of
gorgeous, high-prowed, 30-men canoes launched. Fol-
lows a spectacle I shall never forget. A palm-
fringed bay on Vella a-swoon in a brilliant forenoon.
Suddenly a shout! “Here come the Yamberas.”
Round a distant point swing six giant canoes, all
their shellwork a-glitter in the sunlight, the glisten-
ing bodies of the natives swinging and swaying in
unison. As if wielded by one man the 180 paddles
dip, swing and flash. “Thunt!” “Thunt!” “Tliunt!”
slap the paddles against the canoe sides at every
stroke, and the rhythm of it is irresistible. By this
time -the shore natives are frantically excited, but
the oncoming warriors appear not to heed them.
Half-way across the bay the stroke is changed.
“Thunt!” ! “Thunt!” ! “Thunt!”——! go
the paddles now, the tap ' being omitted at every
alternate stroke. Suddenly all is quiet! The canoes
are gliding noiselessly on, the paddles dipping swiftly,
but silently. The speed is incredible. They sweep
along thus to within 200yds. of the beach and then
open out for the last grand burst. Like a signal gun
roars out the paddle song—and away they go. One
hundred and eighty glistening, dripping demons swing
and sway in a mad struggle for supremacy. The
crowd rocks and roars. The time is perfect and in-
conceivably rapid. The wizard hulls foam and
leap like live things. Perched in the high stern of
each a native is performing prodigies with the steer-
ing paddle, whirling it from side to side with won-
drous dexterity and skill. The towering prows rock
and sway dangerously under the tremendous power of
each baresark impulse. And so amidst a lather of
foam, maddened water and shrieking populace they
surge to the beach. Vale! yambera.
* * # #
The Oldest Inhabitant: Somebody has
again been hazing the tame historian on S. M.
Herald. Publishing a picture of Mitchell’s historic
tree, he says Sir Thos. Mitchell, in 1835, named the
place “Port Bourke.” As a matter of fact, Mitchell
built a stockade as a protection against the Darling
blacks and named it Fort Bourke.
* * * *
Polstan”: The Australian isn’t always
just casual. Sometimes a little mild strategy suggests
itself to his simple mind. Bill McGrath was a con-
scientious objector to the forestry laws, and for a long
while his depredations in the forest reserve caused the
Crown lands bailiff deep concern. But one day the
ranger caught him and, later, Bill was the honored
recipient of a bit of blue paper that contained remarks
to the effect that his presence was desired at the Court
of Petty Sessions on a certain date. When the Court
sat, however, Bill wasn’t adjacent. Instead, a polite
SOCIETY ITEM.
THE YOUNG LADY: “ Have you ever met Mrs.
Phillips, Mrs. Hicks?"
MISSUS 'ICKS: “Mrs. Phillips? Oh, dear
no; Ai belong to the Undertakers' Set.
She’s only in the Greengrocers'."
bush-whacker’s note was handed to the clerk, respect-
fully requesting that, as the defendant was detained
on most urgent business, his case might be called last.
The P.M. acquiesced, and as the list that day was a
very long one the case was not heard till late in the
afternoon. Bill hadn’t arrived, so the P.M. hit him
up ten bob and a crown costs, and called it quits. In
the meantime McGrath, who had turned every avail-
able man and dray into the forest an hour before sun-
rise, was cutting Gehenna out of the timber, secure in
the knowledge that the bailiff wouldn’t be able to
leave the precincts of the court till the case was dis-
posed of. When night fell the prop stack at the mine
had assumed colossal proportions. So had the cheque
that Bill bore homewards in his vest-pocket.
THE CHARGE OF THE TIGHT BRIGADE.
MOTOR DRIVER (counting the cost): “All that is left of it—left of six hundred.”
“Arno” : Mati Takoa was the chief of the
local tribe, and a man of some standing, even in the
eyes of the pakehas. He took to wife a handsome
but frivolous wahine, and was much devoted to her ;
so much so that she presumed to flout him openly
and make love to one Watane, whose ardor was never
more than lukewarm. Mati, observing the facts of
the case, expostulated with his wife, and pointed
out that if she persisted in wooing Watane with
caresses and cookery, he (Mati) would be
obliged to cut her throat. He spoke with
calmness and dignity, but the silly woman
only laughed. One day Mati, coming home
unexpectedly, found her again entertaining
her lover. Watane, much relieved at the
husband’s arrival, departed, leaving the
prepared feast of pig to its rightful owner.
Mati made good use of his knife on the
pork, being hungry, and then set to work
to sharpen it (the knife, I mean, not the
pork), explaining to his wife that he was
preparing for the promised operation on
her throat. Even then the self-deluded
woman laughed, trusting to his undoubted
affection for her. It was not until he was
ready to begin that she attempted to escape. Then
it was too late. Mati finished the job neatly and ex-
peditiously, laid the body out in correct state for the
tangi, called his relatives and explained matters, and
walked some miles into the township and gave him-
self up to the police. The Court handed Mati 20
years, afterwards shortened to 15, and after that
Mati, grey and sterner-looking, again took his place
at the head of the tribe. Experience had not soured
i him, nor destroyed his faith in woman, for soon he
' married again, choosing a wahine as young and
handsome as she whom he had executed (for he did
not count his deed murder, though aware of pakeha
opinion and deferring to it). With such a warning
the lady was not likely to attempt any philandering,
and the two still live happily ever after, or words to
that effect.
* * * *
Pick . Can anybody tell me how the
Mack cockatoo so unerringly locates his titbit, the
white wood-grub? I can understand the fowl’s
ability to select the right kind of tree for wood-
grubs, because when after eel bait I can pick them
out myself; but I have to chop the wood into
fragments, and follow the passages along the limbs
and roots, sometimes for yards, before I catch up
to my grub. Cocky simply alights upon a branch,
or clings to the tree trunk, and after a few hops
and tappings with his beak, pecks straight in to
the required depth, and drags out the oyster. It
also worries me to know why the worm calmly
awaits the coming destruction. There is nothing
of the Jack Donaldson about this more than any
other worm; still he has plenty of time to move
on, for the cockatoo will sometimes spend hours in
beaking an opening to the larder. Apparently,
since he always strikes grub at the bottom, the
worm never moves the fraction of an ell.
“Eddyson”: Shannis McGowan and Shin
Halligan were enemies most magnificent from never
a cause man knew of but the native and natural joy
of combat. They were both small, scrubby men, with
small knowledge and artifice in battle, and never a
taste of respect for civilised usage or the quality of
ringcraft. When Shin was moved to get at Shamus
he consulted no lexicons, nor concerned himself at all
with rules of etiquette and table-manners for pugil-
ists. He just got down to work, his business being to
stop Shamus as soon as possible, and sit by on a
fence in homely pride while the relatives of McGowan
towed him home by the heel. Nor was McGowan a
tidy or punctilious fighter to the extent that would
excite remark. If he could get a kick in it was not
for him to neglect his opportunities, or fly in the face
of Providence. He kicked and was thankful to the
blessed saints. Give the heroes three pints apiece
and set them together in a 10-acre paddock, and they
would provide a whole half-day’s diversion. Let Shin
or Shamus have six long ones true to measure, and
of his own volition he sought his horn foe high and
low. There was an occasion when Shamus was out
with a bell the night long, but Mrs. Halligan had
Shin in the cellar that night, and was sitting on the
door, the full 14st. of her, and wouldn’t let him up
to do battle for the honor of his house. One night
a hailstorm most terrific struck all Bungaree broad-
side on, and Shamus awoke to find hunks of missiles
as big as spuds crashing through his windows.
McGowan reached for the two hobs of his chimney,
and went out with a bound. A slat of ice biffed him
on the head, and his heels went up, and he hit a cruel
world with the nape of his neck. Up came Shamus again
whirling his bricks, but before he could take aim a
hailstone like an ostrich egg bounced on his skull,
and down went McGowan to the bottom of the sea!
He was some little time coming up out of the great
waters this trip, but eventually he balanced on his
heels once more, and there was a good red brick in
each fist. Biff, biff, biff came the hailstones big as
melons, and finally “crash” the emperor of all hail-
stones, a young iceberg, splintered on the frontal
lobes of Shamus McGowan, and the great head broke
under it. McGowan was gathered up later, and taken
to a hospital to be renewed and renovated, and it was
two days before he recalled his own name and his
purpose in life. Then, with one wild eye peering
out of his bandages, said he: “ ’Tis no dishcredit t’
me, dochter, dear, me bein’ here. Didn’ he have his
whole fam’ly at me—didn’ he? Didn’ he have him-
self V every dom Halligan in th’ disthric’ trowin’
gibbers, so ut a poor man had nivir a chance at all
wid th shlathers iv them like rain. But, docthor
dartin’, may be yid make out th’ bit order for me
fer wan dthray-load iv thim fine, round pebbles big
ez yer fisht from th’ Crown puddlers. ’Tis very busv
I’H be with no time t’ waste waitin’ when I come
well. Halligan has took V throwin’ gibbers; V will
yeh hurry wid me cure, docthor darlin’?—for never
was a McGowan of thim all a thought behind-hand
wid a brick.”
Gome Ancient Crimes and Criminals.
H. B. Irving is said to be editing a book
(ye gods) on the subject of the murder at
Whitechapel (London) of Harriet Lane, by
her paramour, Henry Wainwright. He was
the second notorious murderer of that name,
if certain discrepancies in the spelling are
overlooked, for one Thomas Griffiths W aine-
wright made something of a splash in this
country long ago. T. G. W. was an Eng-
lish gentleman of the worst description, an
officer in the British army, a painter of
some value, a journalist of size (his pen-
name of “Janus Weathercock” was well
known in the London Magazine about 90
years ago), a magnificent spender of money,
a vigorous forger and an energetic poisoner.
Most of the people whom he poisoned were
heavily insured in his favor—one of them
tor £lB,OO0 —-but “Janus Weathercock”
always professed to be an artist. He repu-
diated sordid motives, and declared that he
poisoned liis sister-in-law, not because lie
had pecuniary objects in view, but because
the girl had “thick ankles,” and was a blot
on the landscape.
Thomas Griffiths Wainewright died of
apoplexy at Hobart in 1852.
The Wainwright that H. B. Irving is
alleged to be concerned with at present had
been a London dealer in horse-hair, or some
such merchandise—a flash, stage-struck fel-
low who knocked about among cheap actors
and used to shout tripe suppers and eel pies
for Last End ballet girls. All the surround-
ings of his fatal indiscretion were sordid
enough, and Heaven only knows why he
should be put into a book 40 years after his
decease.
Having killed his woman when his funds
were running low, he buried her in a cellar.
Ihe arrival of some perfectly ordinary
tradesmen to do repairs filled him with an
idea that the remains were being looked for.
whereas the remains were of such small
account that they hadn’t even been missed.
8o he hurriedly dug up the corpse, and
packed it carelessly in canvas, and sum-
moned an odd-job man to assist him in re-
moving the pared.
Wainwright left his assistant in charge
ot the thing whilst he went to hail a cab.
and the inquisitive outsider fooled about
with the bundle until a dead hand burst
through the stitching. The police couldn’t
tail to follow, up a clue like that, so Wain-
wright was duly tried and condemned. Ilis
theatrical tendencies remained with him to
the end. On the night before his execution,
it was said, the warders gathered outside
the ontei* iron barred door of the condemned
cell (the solid inner door being open), and
gave Wainwright an enthusiastic encore for
his recitation of “The Charge of the Light
Brigade.” Perhaps it was this incident
which appealed to H. B. Irving’s theatrical
imagination. '
Some people,, by the way, held that it was
Henry s brother Thomas who murdered
Harriet Lane. Thomas is said to have con-
fessed on his death-bed that he did the deed,
but then the death-bed of a man named
ihomas doesn’t amount to much, especiallv
when he dies in gaol.
The odd-job man who held the bundle of
dead body while Wainwright went for a cab
came to a bad end, of course, like the person
who made a little limelight for himself out
of the Mount Rennie horror in Sydney. His
name was Stokes, but that had nothing to
do with his bad end. From being an honest
street-corner loafer, odd-jobber, beggar and
lamp-post leaner he developed into a sort
of prophet. He got swelled head. The lime-
light was. too much for him. He declared
that a voice from Heaven had told him to
open the bag of remains which he was hold-
ing while Wainwright went for the cab. Lie
declared that another voice from Heaven
bade him chase the four-wheeler containing
Wainwright and the gruesome relic, so he
girded up his tail-coat and ran. He at-
tempted to address public meetings about his
“wrongs,” being seized with an idea that he
was some kind of a dispossessed heir or
dethroned king. A few cranks of the kind
that used to follow the Tichborne Claimant
gave him their countenance. They “took up
his case” whep he hadn’t one. He was handed
ss. on a public platform by a very rich man
to keep him in beer till the alleged clouds
of contumely and scoff had drifted by.
I inally he stole something worth about 2d.,
and the gaol swallowed him up, and he was
no more heard of. j
When you come to think of it, an amazing
number of people are no more heard of.
Gouger ’: My only excuse is that he was
drunker than he ought to have been and I was more
desperately impecunious than usual. His chief griev-
ance in life seemed to be that a hand of his watch
had lost itself. Examining the timepiece with a
craftsmanlike air, I guaranteed to replace the broken
hand for half a dollar. The watch, my swag, and
myself were soon in debate at the rear of the pub.
'I o make it look like proper workmanship, I took
20min. in painting the hand on the watch (this very
pen did it) before I took the masterpiece to its
waiting owner. He was enthusiastic, and showered
four drinks upon me and a dollar as well—all -on
account of the fine way the new hand worked.


4 CHUNDER”
TAKES A TRIP HOME. Dancing Tango on Deck.
,X .:;:
x> \
-xx ■-'- ysg&*
*■**• s "'■ ' > *S >J '•' e, V ..«-£jS* #S ‘'
X. 'X X y.'gS’^
.. <: ;;-S^
Kf
y^S*
(. . v
.-«^S£jUr
>k
yx,
Xy.
\
/
i
v
.-■X,
w
Mil *
if !/
M^/|
x " UJ
/-6^'' *'
s*
mm
f
'4&x£
\
r
tie
/
/•
f h
V
\
x
\
QL
x
x
N
x x
v—-
X
X
X
\
Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Knows the way
To Tango too.
With the bear
For partner he
Demonstrates it
Brilliantly.
All the passengers
Declare.
That his style’s
Beyond compare.
“Its so elegant
‘Tis clear
“That’s the COBRA
Style, my dear.”


If You Need a Tonic, You Need
the Best Tonic!
And the best tonic is Sanatogen ! That was
definitely proved by the official award of the Inter-
national Medical Congress, held in London in
August, 1913.
The special jury of the Congress, representing the
cleverest physicians in the world, gave their highest
possible award (the Grand Prix) to Sanatogen—and only
to Sanatogen —selecting it from all other tonics and
nutrients !
You Need Sanatogen
Do you fully grasp what this means
to you ? Where your health is con-
cerned, you cannot safely experiment
with inferior or doubtful preparations.
If you need a tonic, you need the best
ton e ! Therefore you need Sanatogen.
Sanatogen is the one tonic which
commands your absolute confidence, be-
cause it has the confidence of the whole
medical profession. Over 19,000 signed
letters from practising physicians show
that Sanatogen is of the greatest value
in various conditions of ill-health, in-
cluding Nervous and Wasting Diseases,
General Weakness, Poverty of Blood, Im-
paired Digestion, and Faulty Nutrition.
Begin to take it To-day.
Sanatogen is the one thing
which you can depend on to bring
about a real improvement in your
health —and especially in the health of
your nervous system. Send this
coupon to-day for a Free Booklet,
which fully explains its nature
and uses.
You can buy Sanatogen af any Chemist's, from 2j6d. per tin.
I'
I
«
S vi
m
«-
I
m
a
/
#
■
SSafl
■I I
818 Hi
W N*
.
P *
HI
'* .i
ffm
*
%
#,>
t*r
f
V*
k
1
I
Sir Edward Grey addressing the Inter
national Medical Congress.
Sir FREDERICK MILNER,
a member of the Privy Council,
says:—
“ Sir Frederick Milner was much
run down when he took Sanatogen,
and it certainly proved successful. It
seems both to nourish and give
strength."
Madame SARAH GRAND,
authoress of “The Heavenly
Twins,” etc., writes: —
"I pin my faith to Sanatogen
because it certainly restored me to
health after the worst nervous break- ■
down I ever had."
Mr. HENRY ARTHUR
JONES,
author of so many famous plays,
writes: —
“ Sanatogen is a very valuable
food and nerve-tonic. I have several
times taken a course of it when run
down, and always with good results."
mr the
/ Grand Prix^
International
Medical Congress • 1°)1 y■
fias teen awarded to
ivSANffI&GEN*
Sir CHARLES A. CAMERON,
C. 8., M.D.,
Medical Officer of Health and Analyst,
Dublin, etc., writes
“ Sanatogen is an excellent nerve-food of the
highest nutritive value, containing a large
amount of organic phosphorus in exactly the
form in which it can be easily''absorbed.'*
A. Wulfing & Co., j' ~
17, Bond Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me a Free Booklet, “ Hd w ,
to Live *i. nil A ? : *■
Name
Address LjLIL'. L: ~-“
S. 13/647,
The London “season,” beginning in May,
will have a Great International Fasting
Competition for one of its side-shows. All
countries are invited to send along their
most durable non-feeding citizen, and the
bloke whose stummick stands the longest
spell of gnawing pains will get a 50-guinea
cup in addition to “first” money. The placed
fastens will get cups, and £2OO will be dis-
tributed in cash prizes among the also
starved.
If Customs Minister Groom can bellow in-
furiatedly like 14 Tummas Bents it is to be
hoped that he will do it when a deputation
from Colac (Vic.) Council presently asks
him to remit the duty, amounting to
£97, on a motor road-roller that it has
imported. There is no special reason why
a municipal council —which is merely a num-
ber of citizens in concrete —shouldn’t
help to protect Australian industries,
just the same as individual citizens. One
of Colac’s councillors excused the importa-
tion on the ground that that class of roller
isn’t made in Australia. And it isn’t likely
to be if the duty is to be remitted every time
a wealthy district like Colac goes and does
a cadge.
A pathetic phase of Sydney life was re-
vealed by a discursive policeman at the Cen-
tral Court the other Monday. Talking of
drunks (and there is a lot of talk about
drunks—“over-Sunday drunks”- —at the Cen-
tral on the morning after the Day
of Rescht) he mentioned that it had become
habitual for many persons to become hope-
lessly sozzled in doorways on Saturday night.
They try to take the beer home for use on
the Lord’s Day, but meet with the tempta-
tion of an intolerable thirst, and succumb.
The road to ll—, that is to say, to a non-
alcoholic Sabbath, is paved with dead
marines and beer-stained doorsteps.
A lot of Permanent and Reproductive rail-
way plant is liable to be sent to the scrap-
heap by a new screw system lately patented:
that is, if the thing on a large scale will
work as pleasantly as does the model. The
carriages get their motive-power from a cable
in a slot below, but it is an enormous screw.
It never stops, and passengers get on, as in
the Moving Platform, while the open car
is crawling by at three miles an hour. The
“platform’s” weakness was its slow pace
throughout; hut here a station section has
the spirals only a foot apart, while in the
tunnels—the thing is designed mainly for
underground or tube work —they are Bft.
apart. Thus the small carriages speed up
automatically to 24 miles an hour on the
between-stations run. The advantage over
the plain cable is that the carriages never
release their grip. Therefore, it is claimed,
no drivers (or brakes, or signals) will be
needed. llow passengers are to get on in a
crowded station while others are getting off
is not stated, and the slightest slip, on an
unstopping, automatic system, might be seri-
ous. The man who fell at the forward end
of a platform, and left his body behind while
his head was being whirled away to the next
station at 24 miles an hour would he tempted
never to travel by the blessed thing again.
“A. Cheffar” : The most striking example
of a man’s “double” that ever came under
my notice was in a case heard in a Sydney
police court, where William Brown was
charged with a rather serious assault. Seven
witnesses of good character fully and un-
hesitatingly identified Brown as the assailant.
The late W. P. Crick defended the accused,
and his cross-examination consisted of a
couple of questions only: “Are you positive
this is the man who committed the assault?”
and “You’ve no doubt about him?” The wit-
nesses were dead-sure. “Pa” Delohery was
hearing the case, and Crick remarked to
him: “Your Worship might very well won-
der why I am apparently wasting your time
in defending this man in the face of such evi-
dence as you have heard. But you’ll see a
peculiar development presently.” When the
case for the prosecution had closed. Crick
said: “I am about to make an unusual appli-
cation to your Worship. But I hope you’ll
grant it.” “vVhat is it. Mr. Crick?” said
the Bench. “I want your Worship to have
all the witnesses taken out and kept in a
room for a few minutes.” The Bench thought
it was certainly a peculiar application, but
granted it, and the witnesses were taken to
the magistrates’ room. Crick then asked
that John Smith should be called. Upon
that being done there came into the court and
stood alongside Brown that man’s living
image. Brown, looking in a mirror, could not
have seen a more perfect reflection of himself.
Each man was about oft. 9in. high, fair-haired,
blue-eyed, fresh-complexioned, and heavily-
moustached in exactly the same tint of light-
brown. They were square-shouldered, smart-
looking fellows, dressed in blue serge suits of
exactly the same shade and cut, and bore the
unmistakable air of chaps who follow the
sea for a living. As the two stood along-
side each other the witnesses were called in
one at a time and asked to point out which
of the men had committed the assault. The
case fell with a crash.
Probably the best summing-up of the pre-
sent situation in Federal politics was sup-
plied a day or two ago by Sydney Tele-
graph :
While the general prediction is that nothing- ex-
traordinary will happen immediately, yet the situa-
tion is so complex, and can so easily be disturbed,
that every suggestion of future probabilities may be
completely dislocated by a sudden intervention of
some novel or unexpected incident.
Profound cogitation over this matter leads
to the conclusion that something will happen
unless it doesn’t, and it probably won’t; but,
on the other hand, it may.
“Chasuble” picks up crumbs behind the
altar: —-
The Athanasian creed was burlesqued by Ilone, the
publisher, and he was prosecuted .for it. lie turned
the Trinity into the Political, Ecclesiastical and
Legal bigwigs. One clause ran: “The Lord Chan-
cellor is Incomprehensible, the Lord Chief Justice is
Incomprehensible, and the Lord Chief Baron is In-
comprehensible. Yet there are not Three Incom-
prhensibles, but One Incomprehensible.”
St. James’s Old Melbourne Cathedral was named
in compliment to James Smith, a. squatter, who built
the first little wooden church there. Thus Coppin,
cutting up James Palmer’s Hawthorn property,
named it St. James’s Park.
After long delays, Archbishop Clarke has managed
to open (lie transferred St. James’s, in King-street
north, corner of an insignificant little thoroughfare
named Batman-street. Yet it only got that name a
decade ago. An indignant citizen wrote: “No! In-
stead of Collins-street being named after the man
who deserted Victoria as no good (Talk about
Amerigo Vespucci and Columbus!), it ought to be
named Batman.” Whereupon another demanded that
it should be called. Fatman. And so Collins will
stick till the last syllable of recorded time, both in
Slowbart and Melbourne.
The new Old St. James’s is slightly different out-
side, but miraculously reproduced inside. As Arch-
bishop Clarke said, “You can imagine yourself in the
Church as it opened in 1842.” Meanwhile they are
collaring the dibs for the old site, where there was
oceans of room for the reconstruction. But then the
old site was valuable and had to he turned into
money. Any old site is good enough for a church,
but a warehouse is particular about the company it
keeps.
When Earl Grey was energetically push-
ing his pet hobby, town planning, in Maori-
land recently he mentioned that most Fog-
land towns have only one acre of open space
to every 635 people, while Letchworth Garden
City, the alleged marvel of modern town plan-
ning that the frantic Earl is always whoop-
ing about, lias one acre of open space to
every 290 of population. When the Earl’s
whoop had died -down somewhat a tame
architect in Maoriland pointed out to him
that Christchurch (M.L.) possessed one
acre of open space to every 157 of popula-
tion, thus proving that “the biawsted kolo-
nies” are not exactly wandering along in
heathen darkness after all. The town-plan-
ning Earl’s reply was silence.
A special-article writer in the Sydney
Telegraph ( 25/4/T4) comes to the amaz-
ing conclusion that the “biggest, most inspir-
ing figure in Australian politics to-daj is
Bigjohn Forrest. The eulogist goes oa to
say that the fat ex-emperor is "dignified it
somewhat ponderous." M neu lie is inter-
rupted he “makes some utterly ineffective
retort”; and-“everyone smiles.” Further, it
is recorded that he has not “what might
justly be called a keen intellect.” He has
“thoughts apt to be rather confused. He
“wanders around a good deal covering a lot
of unnecessary ground.” John is "like a bull
breaking his track through young scrub.
As a speaker he is “slow and rather heavy.
Boiled down, this doesn't seem to be wild
mad applause for John.
The paraffin craze is spreading over Maori-
land like the coming winter. Large quanti-
ties of the refined, liquid oil are being swal-
lowed in the belief that this deodorised first
cousin to kerosene is capable or curing evert -
thing from Bright’s complaint to common
corns. The suffragette sex is going specially
strong on the new cure, and, in Auckland
particularly, an enormous sale, at fancy
prices, for this oil is springing up. Doctors
started the craze by ordering doses of the
lubricant for indigestion, and, of course, the
glad news that it worked wonders soon flew
tit) and down and in and out and all round
about. “Try paraffin, my dear,” is now the
stock -advice at tea-sipping and gossip con-
tests, and anyone who doesn’t consume oil
like an engine these days is looked upon as
being very ancient goods indeed. Doctors
are now loudly j>rolosting that the best cure-
all is still “Exercise,” with a big E; but
.point out that if you eat too much dinner
and can’t squeeze' time to jruiL a- mile you
can do worse than gulp an ounce of paraffin.
It would be an ideal substit me for exercise
in no-license districts if it only tasted differ-
ently. but it doesn’t. Nothing ever does.
There are crimes and crimes. The worst
crime in England is the laying of a drag in
fox-lmnting country. A drag is a trail of
aniseed or some other -compound, which puts
the hounds off the scent of the fox. Recently
a malefactor or anarchist laid a drag across
country which was infested by the Tedworth
Hounds; and the rightly infuriated Master
of the Tedworth Hounds issued the follow-
ing letter to tenant farmers: —
Another gross, insult to myself, as Master of the
Tedworth Hounds,- was perpetrated on Friday m the
form of laying a drag from Longstock. I look to
you, the tenant farmers in the limit, to take every
precaution to prevent such scoundrels from laying
drags across your land in the future. Those who
commit these outrages are of the lowest type of
scoundrels, and not fit to bear the name of English-
man. Those, who know their names and are shielding
them are every hit as had. I look to you, the tenant
farmers, to use every, effort in your power to show
up these blackguards and bring their names before the
public.
The pact about not being fit to bear the
name of Englishman must have hurt, as it
was intended to. The quaint thing is that
London Times prints this delightful effort as
a mere news item under the heading: “In-
terference with Hunting: A Master’s Pro-
test.”
THE POORER THIEF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Plum” Williams, the prince of Australian criminals,
furnished in the end a striking lesson in the futility
of law-breaking. Williams lay in a Melbourne
hospital unrecognised for a fortnight, and died of
physical collapse, his warring against society having
simply worn him out. But Williams liad friends.
They foil fid him in the hospital mortuary on Sunday,
and buried him with honor yesterday. “Plum” would
have shared a pauper's grave had these pals not dis-
covered him in time. —Melbourne paper.
Poor “Plum,” the buried King of Thieves,
Financially was “bust” ;
For him no club or paper grieves;
Upon his grave you’ll find but leaves.
He should have been a Trust.
He should have been a Trust, I say,
And robbed with might and main,
Attended office ev’ry day,
And burgled in a wholesale way,
Say down in Flinders-lane.
The Trust is strong. It never dies.
It has ten thousand hands,
And twenty thousand eager eyes,
And books and books of figured lies.
Alone the poor thief stands.
Alone the poor thief stands and fights
The Law —his eager foe.
The rich thief up two marble flights
Behind plate glass enjoys the rights
That only rich thieves know.
Have done! have done with warehouse doors
And midnight prowling! That
Is useless. Thieve on several floors,
With splendor and plate-glass and stores!
If you’re a thief, BE FAT!
What wasted frame is this they stow
Down there with honest grief?
Friend, take a last long look below!
lie took the Retail Way, and so—
Here lies the Poorer Thief!
N.SAV.
CONSTANT BURGLAR.


9JHI3 sijiipuojg s.aNavaH
G. 3 Wd Vi H
TmiT'l! 11l 11 ill lii ii 111 lit iimi . i-. i'
Is scientifically prepared by Mr. W. G. Hearne
-who is a Registered Chemist of extensive ex-
perience, and the Manufacturer is absolutely
prepared to stake every ounce of his Mag-
nificent Reputation on the fact that
EARNE’S
Bronchitis
Cure
is equally beneficial to Children, Adults
and the Very Aged
For CROUP, COUGHS & COLDS
“ My son had been attended by a legally qualified doctor,
who pronounced him to be suffering from Pneumonia and
Pleurisy. In spite of the doctor’s treatment the child gradually
got worse, and. the doctor pronounced the case hopeless.
He told me that the child could not live. At this stage I
obtained HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure, and gave it
to the child, according to the directions which accompany
each bottle. The child improved after the second dose.
He continued to improve each day from each dose of
HEARNE’S Medicine alone, and within three
days he was free from the Cough, Pneu-
monia and the Pleurisy. He was out
of bed at the end of a week,
pletely recovered.”
com-
P. McKEE,
Carr St., South Geelong,
If not obtainable in your
district send direct to—
W. (i. ttearne
£ Co. Ltd.,
GEELONG
Victoria.
Price, 2/6 & 4/6
p-1
r/\
H /M'>
S«
n
k
s&w
m
u
m
&
4*
64.
iill imigi
k
-3*
4'
K
111 Mllij! ''l/
$
.' V -
/ ///in 1 *
s-sa
&
&
1
1
iigflD
m;
&
111
nnnnp
pnnHip
mmillllliiimm
m
When Weaning Baby
The Best Food to give is
The ‘Allenburys’ Milk Food No. 1.
Oil the addition of water as directed, it forms an accurately estimated
humanised milk, and may be given alternately with the natural food
without fear of upsetting the child or causing digestive disturbance.
Weaning can therefore proceed gradually with comfort both to mother
and child. Farinaceous foods should not be given at this time.
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING AND MANAGEMENT FREE
Allen & Kaiihurys Ltd. market street, n sybW
WHAT IS
J
p
Y>
Golcryst is made from Epsom Salts,
Senna, Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liq-
uorice and Ginger. That seems a
good combination of useful medi-
cines for Constipation, Rheumatism,
Impure Blood, Pimples, • Boils,
Stomach and Liver Troubles.
So popular has this remedy become in
Australia that Golcryst may be regarded
fis the National Aperient.
Packets 3d., 6d. & I|-
If you cannot obtain locally, write to
the Proprietors,'
Rocke, Tompsitt 8 Co.,
MELBOURNE,
FOR A FREE SAMPL.E PACKET. [l
THE LONE HAND” for Good Stories and Bright Articles* Price 6d.


A. SAUNDERS’
8-day Enamelled Iron Clock, silt decorations
chimes hours and half-hours, on Cathedral tone song.
Height 10 inches, 25/-; ditto, Porcelain Dial and visible
escapement, 35/-
A. SAUNDERS’
400-day Clock, burnished brass movement,
absolutely silent and dust-proof. Wind once
a year, 30/-
We Deliver and Affix Clocks
Free in the City and Suburbs.
The Great Clock House
of A. Saunders can offer you the largest variety of modern
A. SAUNDERS’
Carved Oak Bed-
room Timepiece, 30-
hours’ lever movement,
bevelled glass, 8/6.
Clock Designs, of
the best quality,
of the greatest
accuracy and re=
liability at the
lowest prices.
Send for our Clock
Catalog, and
prove our words.
tffqrfS
A. SAUNDERS’
Antique Brass Bed-
room Clock, 30-hour
movement, silver finished
dial, complete with alarm,
17/6. Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS’
Bronze Statuette,
on ebonised base, height
14in., 12/6. Ditto,
real bronze finish,
17/6.
8-day Oak
strikes hours o
A. SAUNDERS’
Clock, fancy columns, bronze mounts,
1 Cathedral Gong, height 10 inches, width
12 inches, 25/-
A. SAUNDERS’
Bronze Statuette,
on ebonised base, height
14in., 12/6. Ditto,
real bronze finish,
17/6.
AUNDERS
SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER
807-817 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS’
Fancy Bedroom Clock, solid marble case,
fancy dial, 30-hour movement, height 6 inches,
17/6.
80-hour
mahogany
A. SAUNDERS’
Bedroom Clock, inlaid
case, fancy dial. Height, 71
inches, 10/6.
Will our Country Clients kindly
add Freight when Ordering.
WINFRED" CIGARETTES
w
nT
R
e
D
C
i
G
A
ES
E
E
\
v\
St
S
6,
• /
1 v,'
$
raw
••• •
m
m
V »
(M
rliF. MATCH OF Ttir *£.-W>?-
F
I
N
E
S
T
V
I
R
G
I
1
A
io
FOR
6 D
DELICIOUS IN FLAVOUR UNIQUE IN QUALITY
OF ALL HIGH CLASS TOBACCONISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO., LTD., London Eno
20
FOR
II-


gh
Three
Sizes
of
1H.2
3HH.P.
Make Your Rowboat Self-Propelled
by attaching the
EVINRUDE
Detachable Rowboat Motor
The Evinrude Motor, attached at the stern of
any rowboat or canoe, will give all the service
and pleasure of efficient Motor-Boating. For
cruising up the river or around the coast.
For conveying cargo quickly at small cost. It
"economizes space, being attached outside the rowboat,
and can be easily taken off without harm to the wood-
work and used on any other boat.
25,000 Satisfied Users. 9 Governments have
adopted the Evinrude Motor after rigid tests.
It is operated by Petrol (gasoline),
with battery ignition or MAGNETO,and
automatic lubrication. Steered by pro-
peller—no rudder required, but supplied if
desired. Reversible. Fully guaranteed.
MELCHIOR, ARMSTRONG and DESSAU,
Dept. D=l2, 116 Broad Street, New York, U.S.A.
Descriptive Booklet Post Free from
Controlling: Representative for Australasia and New Zea-
land, Dept. D-12, 88 Queen Street, Melbourne; Dept. D-12,
194 Vickery’s Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney; Dept. D-12, 3
Australasia Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane. Doeal
Agents; H. Kennedy, Dept. D-12, Broome, W.A.; C. J.
Ellershaw & Co., Dept. D-12, Perth, W.A.
ghg
[2
Get the Pen that regulates
its ink flow Fast or Slow—
The Onoto. A simple turn of the
“ head ” regulates the flow of ink
exactly as you want it. Another
“ turn ” renders the Onoto a sealed
tube in your pocket, so that it cannot
leak
Onoto Pen
The Self-filling Safety Fountain Pen.
Price 12/- and upwards of all Stationers, Jewellers, and Stores. Booklet about
the Onoto Pen free on application to Thos. dk la Rue & Co., Limited, 322,
Bunhiil Row, London, E.C., or the Australasian Representatives Norman
Baker and Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
Ask lor ONOTO INK-Best or all Pens.
Get the Habit
of always looking to Stewart Dawson’s
for jewellery, Silver Plate, Watches,
Souvenirs, for this way lies genuine
satisfaction.
We save you all Middlemen’s Profits
by buying in big quantities for Cash, by
Manufacturing, and by selling for cash.
Write for our New Art Catalog, and
therein discover what is most sought
after in the Fashionable World.
Stewart Dawson’s
Strand Corner ,
412 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
SIEMENS GLOSSUP IRONS.
The Cheapest and Best Electric Iron on the Market.
IP
SSJktmm
— _
This Adaptor
size iron to be
nearest Electric
extinguishing
hg
enables the small
connected to the
Lamp without
the Light,
The irons are finished in polished nickel
plate on copper, ensuring freedom from rust*
Suitable for either alternating or continuous
current from 50 to 250 volts*
800 IRONS IN STOCK.
it-m:
iilH
PI
iI m i *1 I *>, > > ICS
I i ?! I.
iHfii
M
1 &&
V
■ ~-
Description.
Lace Iron ...
Light Domestic
Medium
Heavy
Laundry
Weight lb.
f'J Tf W 5 O t>
ĝhf
Consumption Watts.
250
300
350
400
450
SPECIAL QUOTATIONS FOR QUANTITIES AND INDENT ORDERS .
We also Stock Electric Kettles, Urns, Economic Stoves, Luminous Radiators, Convectors, Radiator Lamps, Metal Filament Lamp
Carbon Lamps, and a large stock of up-to-date Electrical Supplies.
42 Bridge Street,
SYDNEY.
SIEMENS
59-61 William Street,
MELBOURNE.


THE CORRECTIVE PROPERTIES OF
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS.
Many people have no hesitation in taking
a dozen bottles of medicine in liquid form
prescribed by a doctor, but view with alarm
the suggestion to take a course of pills. This
misapprehension is no
doubt due to the impres-
sion that . pills are
merely purgatives,
which may he. correct:
m some instances. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root
Pills, however.- are' not
merely purgatives, act-
ing upon the bowels
only, 'but contain more
important properties,
which correct disor-
ders of. the blood,
stomach, liver and kid-
neys, evidence of which
is not wa-hting. Thou-
sands of testimonials
sent us voluntarily and
gratuitously frbm ’ all
par ts* of - -An* tra-tia-
venfy our statements
■ v . . .....of. what_ Dr., Mor<p’<s
Indian Root Pills will do and are' doing
every day. You will find neighbors, friends •
and relatives everywhere who have been
iestoied to health and who can testify to
the marvellous blood-purifying and healing
properties of thSse pills,* - ■ .
U?
VKORS££
DIRECTIONS
AOUtJS.TWO TO WOT BUI
CHILDREN, A MAi/ TO A
WMOU PIU DIjSOLVED
MSWttTeN£O WATM.
ttktieftan rt&ruif.
INDIAN ROOT
PILLS
“The PAQUIN”
-OF SYDNEY.
FOR ORIGINALITY
OF STYLE.
w
&>•
Ladies 1 . Tailor & Costumier
■ % (Late David Jones),
OCEAN HOUSE,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
TRY
PANIEL CRAWFORD’S
DANIEL CRAWFORD’S
SCOTCH WHISKY.
THE CONNOISSEUR’S FAVORITE.
POLITICAL
POINTS
C OMTENSATION.
HARASSED CITIZEN: “ But I tell you he's after
me NOW, an he'll have me if you”
HIS GUARDIAN : "Tut-tut, my little friend y
just set your' mind at ease. I promise
that if he injures you fatally I'll see that
he's punished for it!”
Sir lan before leaving Mel-
bourne, pointed out that from the military
point of view Australia should be its own
general provider. Certainly; and to begin
with, let it provide its own generals.
Yarraside fragment:—
Watt’s Cabinet spent a vigorous day lately con-
sidering its business programme for next session.
This is how it panned out: The handling grain in
bulk proposals, already fully inquired into, were post-
poned pending the report of an expert to be imported
from Canada; the alleged White Slave traffic was
handed over to John Weary for deeper inquiry';
Williamstown Graving Dock undertaking was de-
ferred to give Watt a chance to try and squeeze a
few pounds out of Prime Minister Cook ; the timber-
seasoning impasse was hung up pending the report
of an “independent and competent man” ; the
Itiverina railways project was pushed aside for a
Itoyal Commission to probe into ; and the Gippsland
harbor works are to be reported on by experts with
a view to subsequent consideration. However the
Cabinet reached finality on two matters. It agreed
to give a couple of shillings or so for a memorial
tablet to be placed on the building now being erected
on the site of the first Government House, and it
decided that in future landowners should get wire-
netting for their river frontages at half-price. It was a
strenuous day’s work, and at the finish of it there was
not a Minister but carried on hia brow the grim
marks of brain fag and utter nervous exhaustion.
THE UNHOLY RUSH.
He did not feel altogether competent to speak with
authority on borrowing matters, and he stood open to
correction.
The President. Compared to you, we are mere
amateurs. (Laughter.)
—From conference of State Premiers.
AUSTRALIA: “ Amateurs!! Heavens, I wonder
what professionals won id be like.”
The Weary State’s ornamen-
ta l Minister of Railways mooted
a new principle in railway con-
struction lately, when suggesting
to a deputation of Ardmona
fruit-growers and Wyuna closer
settlers that a cockspur line
which they asked for, to give
connection with Mooroopna,
should be built and worked by
the interested municipality, or,
that failing, by themselves —the
fruit-growers having offered to
guarantee the Department
against loss if the State would
tackle the job. It is a quaint
idea —and suggestive when care-
fully insuected. If the munici-
pality proposed to build the line
by borrowing, then the State,
could do it cheaper; if it hoped
; to build it out of its revenue from
rates then it would have to
neglect necessary road-mainten-
ance and other work. Also, as
this particular shire gets a large
annual subsidy from the State,
the project would merely amount
to robbing Peter to pay Paul;
while if the idea was that the
settlers should tax themselves
to carry out the work, the State
could just as well do the taxing.
Perhaps Watt foresees the end
of his borrowing. capabilities.
After reading 257 more paragraphs about
the N.S.W. Town-Planning Association, pub-
lished amid, much "applause in the Sydney
Tory press, The Bulletin again asks with
disgust why these people don’t go out and
plan some towns. They can’t do it by hang-
ing round the big cities which are either
planned already or have grown up casually.
The habit of lingering outside the S. M.
Herald offite on town-planning business is
especially futile, seeing that the Herald’s
own office looks like an ancient and tangled
crow’s nest in a wilderness of mean streets.
Among the names of those who want the
Liberal nomination for the Senate in N.S.W.
appear some ancient recollections. One is
ex-Sal. Army man Bruntnell, who got the
miserable; dilapidated “chuck” at Annandale
last year, after having been in and out of
Parliament for quite a while. Another is
Pumpkin Smith, who was a State member
in N.S.W. 34 years ago, and a State Minis-
ter 25 years ago, He had a brief spell in
the Australian Parliament, where he acted
as political dresser to George Reid, and blew
the bit of fluff off him and adjusted his coat-
tail when the great Yes-No was going to
make a great Yes-No oration. Then, in
1906, Carr beat Smith at Macquarie, and he
never rose again.
A cablegram posted from London last Fri-
day was to the effect that “for weeks the
country has been trembling on the verge of
civil war.” Well! The Bulletin knows
a man named Thompson, who has been trem-
bling for weeks on the verge of killing his
neighbor’s dog, which barks at night. There
isn’t much difference in the size of the two
events.
The S. M. Herald last week, discoursing
re the alleged brotherhood of Britain and the
United States, worked off the old gag that
“blood is thicker than water.” It might
have added that wooden-headedness is thicker
still. _ After all it isn’t blood but language
that is thicker than water. The Englishman,
who is an expatriated German, gets on fairly
well with the Highland Celt who is supposed
to have come from Spain, and with the local
Jew who came from Palestine, and with the
acclimatised Slav in the United States, be-
cause he can talk to them. Yet he doesn’t
make much progress with his German cousin
at Berlin because as a rule he can’t talk to
hi m.
Last Saturday—same day as S.A. Agent-
General Kirkpatrick., .returned, to Adelaide,
leaving his post filled by a deputy until F. W.
Young goes to London towards the end of the
year—that State got a cable from its Trade
Commissioner in England that he, too, wants
to come back. It seems a Heaven-sent oppor-
tunity for letting one man fill the two jobs.
“Major” Norton has been a good man for
S.A.’s Trade since 1906, but lias been very
restless of late. His, last six years have
worked out thus: Ist, on hi& job; in London ; •
2nd, back in Adelaide as head 'of Produce
Department, varied by a run north to report
on trade prospects in Asia; 3rd, on his job,
in London ; 4th, member of a private firm, in
England ; sth and 6th, on his job',' in London.
And now he resigns again, abruptly.
THE SPENDTHRIFT.
The boom in the State revenue continues.
TAXPAYER: “ Ugh! Wot's ther use of giving
'im ther 'oof. He'll only do it in.”
A young immigrant was presented at Mel-
bourne City Court Bench last week as a
"rotter” who might be given the option of re-
turning to hjs native England. He owned
up to three convictions for theft in Australia,
also he pleaded guilty to being the son of a
clergyman. From which interesting admission
it appears, that when a parson has a con-
spicuously black sheep for a son he doesn’t
rejoice in his parental opportunities to lead
the young animal to repentance. The re-
verend shepherd doesn’t say to himself that
charity begins at home, and the first duty of
a soul-saver is to rescue his family. On the
contrary, he packs the scapegrace off to Aus-
tralia in the disguise of a “desirable immi-
grant.”
“Green Tape,” from the edge of the scuffle:
The ructions .between Premier Holman’s crowd in
the N.S.W. Parliamentary Labor caucus and “Dick”
Meagher’s push has revived the old rumors that the
former has his eyes fixed .Londonward on the Agent-
Generalship. It is practically a gaping secret that
Holman would have been in the billet before this
but for. the fact, that Beeby’s revolt at a critical
time made him Mrsh back from England to draft
into line again the wavering Labor ranks. “Tim”
Coghlan is now about due for retirement, and it is
said does not wish to go on. If he throws his
marble in at once some chairwarmer will be found
until Holman is ready to flee from the tottering
precipice of debt he has built up.
OTHER NATIONS.
Auckland, April 24. —Referring to defence, in
the course of a speech yesterday, the Prime Minister
(Mr. Massey) reminded his audience that they were
not many days’ steam from nations that, although
friends to-day, might be enemies to-morrow. He did
not wish to mention names.
THE PAINTER OF THE WORD PICTURE:
“ Wonder if they'll know who I mean it
for.”
Governor Macgregor, of Queensland, has
expressed the opinion that England’s great
enemy is luxury. Well, about nine-tenths
of the British people dodge that enemy very
successfully.
“Maorilander”: The trouble with the
Henry Holland type ,of man is that he re-
presents destruction —not construction. After
all the coral insect which does its humble
scrap towards building an island is greater
than the person who burned the library of
Alexandria.
The Oldest Inhabitant sees a friend off: —
John Bennett, who was deemed the doyen of thea-
trical managers, has crossed the Divide at the age
of 85 years, and has been buried at Gore Hill
(Sydney). He was a Sydney native, born in Lower
George-street, where his father, Gabriel Bennett,
carried on a boot and shoe business. John started
out early in vlife to make his own way. He told
this writer that the oldest memory he had was Sam
Terry’s funeral, with its military band and Free-
masons’ display. That was in 1838. Mr. Bennett,
in his early manhood, was the head of a large iron-
mongery in Melbourne. From that job he drifted
into the amusement business, and became associated
with theatricals in the late ’so’s. G. V. Brooke
was one of his earliest connections, and he was asso-
ciated with most of the stars who visited Australia
in the days of Bennett’s activity. Late in 1871 he
became lessee of the “Old Vic.,” in Pitt-street, which
stood <on the site of McCathie, Limited. He opened
trade with a company which included George Darrell
and his wife, the lady we knew in our youth as
Fanny Cathcart (she became Mrs. Robert Heir, and,
as a widow, married Darrell). The theatre was burnt
in 1880. Bennett, who was uninsured, took the
Gaiety in Castlereagh-street for a season. It was
not an attractive house. In later years he was a real
estate speculator, Rosehill racecourse being one of
his ventures. Likewise he owned Brush Farm, after-
wards resumed by the Government for reformatory
purposes. In the grounds of Brush FaTm the re-
mains of the historic or bogus or alleged George
Barrington were buried. Mrs. Bennett, a daughter
and six sons survive the old manager.
THE GENIE—AND THE BOTTLE.
A country party has been formed, composed of 10
Liberal members of the Legislative Assembly.
LUXURY!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He would like to know what at the present moment
was the greatest enemy of England. He believed it
was luxury. The people at home were realty too
well off. —Queensland Gov. Macgregor, at St. Georye's
Day dinner.
The poor o’ London shook their rags
Beneath a wint’ry sun;
The poor o’ London slept on bags,
When summer days were done ;
And when I asked them what was Wrong,
And why they wailed: “O Lord 1 How long?”
They cried: “The curse that dogs our days
And frets with woe our thorny ways
Is neither rags nor Hunger keen,
Nor shameful want we may not screen,
Nor hiting wind, nor icy sheen,
But Luxury !
I laughed to hear them answer so,
And said: “Good folk, ye rave!
And speak like them through life who go
In purple to the grave.
How can ye say ’tis Luxury
That brings about the wrongs ye dree?
When all your bread’s a bitter-black,
And night by night a bed ye lack—
When gaping roof and bitter sky,
And shrunken form your tale deny
That all your miseries rooted lie
In Luxury?”
“ Tis Luxury still,” the answer came
In accents weird and wild ;
“The gilded lord, the pampered dame,
The silken-coated child—-
’Tis they that breed our hapless state,
And shut in Pity’s face the gate;
’Tis they that drive us, meek and dumb,
To herd in lane and slimy slum,
While God’s green land is fenced here
To form a haunt for fallow deer.
Ah, yes, the source of ev’ry tear
Is Luxury 1”
And even as their tale they told
A chariot thundered by—
Its lackeys, brave in green and gold,
Looked down with scornful eye;
A countess with her belted carl,
Her diamonds rare, her priceless pearl,
Sat back and smiled serene and proud
Above the gaunt and grimy crowd,
And wondered, doubtless, how ’t could be
That certain folk profess to see
The root of Wrong and Poverty,
And half the ills of England Free
In Luxury !
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


DELIGHTFUL TONE QUALITY
DIGNIFIED IN DESIGN.
DistingtxisHed
in
Appearance.
RONISCH.
r
■V)
S 3
53
«/
Mil
111
mi
■
v
••
THE purity and mellowness of the tone of the RONISCH
PIANO has made this piano famous throughout the world.
‘lt Lingers in the Memory/ Its soft richness gives to it an
unusual Value to every Music-lover. That is why PALING’S have
sold so many of these beautiful instruments to All CIS IS,
TEACHERS, CONVENTS, SCHOOLS and COLLEGES. The
superiority of the RONISCH is derived not merely Lorn its beauti-
ful Quality of Tone, but also from its excellent Action and
Thoroughness in all Details of Construction. The same High
Standard is maintained right through.
PALING’S RONISCH PIANOS
and
RONISCH PLAYER-PIANOS
, : .1 .:
are specially selected by experts for the Australian Climate, and
every one sold carries our own full guarantee. Our (50 years
reputation for selling only THE BEST PIANOS is a further
recommendation to buyers who consider QUALITY FIRS I.
In our spacious Show Rooms we are just now showing an excellent
range of RONISCH PIANOS, both in Grand and Upright Models.
If unable to call, please write for Illustrated Descriptive Catalogue
and Price List —it is Post Free to any address. Old Pianos are
Exchanged by us aU their Utmost Honest Value. We are Sole
Agents for the renowned RONISCH-CLAAUOLA PLAYER-
PIANO
Send for Catalogue. It is post free.
Also Booklet describing the Ronisch Claviola
Player=Piano.
The World’s Finest Combination Instrument,
in Grand or Upright form.
gh
338 George Street,
Newcastle,
Brisbane,
SYDNEY.
Lismore,
Toowoomba.
LEVIATHAN
Riding Trousers
(READY TO WEAR)
Give Real Saddle
Comfort and
Wonderful Wear
jyj ADE from the toughest of tough
_____ materials, strongly sewn,
strongly stayed, roomy where
they should be roomy, close-fitting
where they should fit closely, they're
just the trousers that the horseman
needs. Try a pair.
Riding Trousers in a grey saddle twist,
made at Geelong Mills and full of
good wear 15/-
Riding Trousers in Leather Tweed, the
toughest of tough materials, extra
stayed 9/6
Khaki Riding Trousers, strongly sewn
and reinforced 6/6
In Ordering by Mail state waist, seat and
inside leg measures.
Get our New Catalogue
A big book, just published, and the
best of all mail-order guides to eco-
nomical clothes buying. A copy post
free on request.
We Pay Freight on all Orders.
The
Levi at h an
For Full Value and Good Style,
Corner Swanston and
Bourke Streets. Melbourne.
•V-v;
/ -W
V
: m
Wi
£905
THIS IS THE ENSI6N CAMERA
THAT CAN BE USED FOR ROLL FILMS AS WELL AS PLATES.
.... Some Photographers stand for Plates, others for
Films. The individual advantages of both are available
to the possessor of a “REGULAR ENSIGN” Camera.
With this model one may insert a spool of film for six
or twelve pictures, or, when one exposure only is required,
it simDly means removing the back panel and the inser-
tion of a dark slide. The reversible view-finder, with
spirit-level attached; the rigidity of the stirrup front; the
beautifully constructed shutter and lens, are some of the
most striking features of the “REGULAR ENSIGN.”
PRICES :
4i X 31. 54 X 34.
“REGULAR ENSIGN,” Model A.Y ~ P’c’d. size.
fitted with Symmetrical Lens. . £B/5/- £4/7/6
“REGULAR ENSIGN,” Model A.K : ,
fitted with Ensign Anastigmat
Lens £4/2/6 £5/2/6
“REGULAR ENSIGN,” Model S.D.,
fitted with Aldis Anastigmat
Lens £5 £6/5/-
Send for 1914 Catalogue, 400 pages illustrated.
f
SYDNEY:
386 George Street.
MELBOURNE:
266 Collins Street.
BRISBANE:
93-95 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE:
Rundle Street.
Also at AUCKLAND, N.Z., and WELLINGTON, N.Z.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents : RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
810-SHOWMEN!
THERE’S onlv one BEST Biograph. We can prove
it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
Missing Friends.
TO WILLIAM STEWART, formerly of
Mangonui, Auckland, New Zealand,
but last heard of in Queensland, and to all
persons claiming by, through or under him.
Pursuant to the directions of His Honor
Sir Robert Stout, K.C.M.G., Chief Justice
of New Zealand, undyer Section 25 of the
Public Trust Office Amendment Act, 1913,
you are hereby called upon to send in to the
undersigned, on or before the Ist day of
October, 1914, your claim- to part of the
estate of CHRISTINA STEWART, late of
Mangonui, Auckland, widow, deceased, who
died on the 9th October, 1880, intestate,
failing which such estate will be distributed
among the persons entitled thereto disregard-
ing your claims.
Dated at Wellington this 19th day of
March, 1914.
J. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
TO JOHN LESLIE STEWART, for-
merly of Wellington, New Zealand,
but last heard of at Sydney, New South
Wales, and to all persons claiming by,
through or under him.
Pursuant to the directions of His Honor
Sir Robert Stout, K.C.M.G., Chief Justice
of New Zealand, under Section 25 of the
Public Trust Office Amendment Act, 1913,
you are hereby called upon to send in to the
undersigned, on or before the Ist day of
October, 1914, your claim to the whole or
part of the estate of HESTER STEWART,
late of Kaikoura, New Zealand, widow, de-
ceased, who died on the 28th October, 1912.
Intestate, failing which such estate will be
distributed among the persons entitled
thereto disregarding your claims.
Dated at Wellington this 19th day of
March, 1914.
J. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
HILD, JOSIAII FREDERlCK.— lnfor-
mation sought as to whereabouts.
Father died last August. Write Harold
Smith, Gernrode, Berkhamsted, England.
A Federal Detective Agency.
J. CANTLON
(late Victorian Detective Police) under-
takes Commercial, Confidential, _ IN ext of Km,
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enquiries,
Searches, Surveillance.
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Tbe God of Winter came out of doors in
Sydney on Saturday, and regaled himself with toe-
ball. It was a great and splendid opening. Nearly
40,000 people attended the Rugby League’s matches.
Another 5000 or 6000 wandered in to look at the
Union games, and the Australian Rulers and the
Soccer crowd had their thousands. Altogether, it
was a fine start —and a strenuous one. No less than
about 10 men had to be carried off the field with
twisted ankles, broken fingers, concussed brains, shat-
tered collar-bones and what-not. League and Union,
Soccer and Australian Rulers all have to make up
their minds that these accidents, in the words of
Minister Hoyle, “Must Cease.” There is no reason
why they should occur. They are due entirely to the
crass brutality and unscrupulous play of a few
selfish limelight-seekers. As far as they can the
football scribes should reprobate this sort of tommy-
rot, and unhesitatingly denounce the man who is
guilty of careless or rough play. And, as fame is
the thing' these rotters are out to get at the cost of
anyone’s limbs or life, the influence of the press is
mighty. If they receive bricks instead of plaudits
they will play the game properly.
In the League competition an amazed world
watched the Premier Club, Eastern Suburbs, over-
thrown by Glebe. It was only by a narrow margin
truly, but it was enough. The figures were 14 to
12. At the first, the premiers raged like pampered
lions, and piled up 12 to two. And then the but-
chers, in all their glory and their red giuernseys,
pulled themselves together. They let loose a splendid
series of charges, in the van of which poured forth
the mighty kicker, A. B. Burge. In a few minutes
the scpre was lifted to nine to .12, and then the
half-time whistle went. In the second half a tre-
mendous contest raged, till at last one Algie strug-
gled over the line, and the mighty hoof of Burge
added the extra points. Eastern Suburbs, though it
raged like the heathen and imagined .a vain thing
with its feet, never made up that two points, and
the whistle of fate blew; it out. For the rest, North
Sydney trampled mightily over Annandale by 23 to
13. The legs hardened by climbing the wild hills
of North Shore were altogether too strong for the
limbs that toiled among the sandy deserts of Annan-
dale. South Sydney handed out the sire of a hiding to
Balmain by 14 to nil. It was awful. Newtown
scrunched Western Suburbs by 15 to five —a veritable
dogjwalloping.
In the Union 'division the results were much more
even, i Eastern Suburbs vanquished Glebe by 14 to
nine after a game that was almost a replica of the
League contest. With the wind behind it Eastern
Suburbs piled up 11 in the first half, but when Glebe
got the breeze at its back there was a mighty change.
Still, Fortune was on the side of the tricolor team,
and Eastern Suburbs finally triumphed. University
hurled Randwick (a new club) on to its back, and
then danced on the prostrate one’s bingey to the
tune of 20 to five. Newtown and Balmain had a
ferocious struggle, and when the breeze blew away
the dust and the dead and the unsupported state-
ments in the debris of false prophecy, it was dis-
covered that Newtown was on top with 24 points to
19. Western Suburbs swallowed Manly with 22 to
six. North Sydney and St. George, after much labor,
swam out with li each.
The tide of disaster that started with the
defeat of the premier team of the League rolled on
to the Soccer division. Annandale, State champion
team and holder of the coveted Rawson Cup, .was
overthrown and killed stone dead by Canterbury with
one goal to nil. It was not a big defeat truly, but
when a champion team fails to even score it leaves
a smell of death lying around. Sydney fell on
Northern Suburbs at the Sports Ground, and smote
it with the jawbone of a lion (four to nil —which
is about equal to 30 to nothing in League and 5000
to 50 in Australian Rules). Balmain’s slaughter of
Glebe was even worse, the butcher suburb going down
by six to nil. Balmain was in a frenzy of delight
over it, for the Tattered Suburb takes its hoofball
very seriously—especially the Soccer portion of it.
Away at Clyde, where the railway congestion is and
the air is ripped with the yells of angered shunters,
Granville cold-bloodedly slew Newtown by six to one.
The way Soccer is growing on the public fancy is
enough to keep the lords of both League and Union
awake at nights.
The Australian Rulers started their compe-
tition the week before, and Saturday was, therefore,
their second round. It produced no surprises in
spite of the reports of sundry daily papers. The
premier club, Sydney, booted North Sydney off the
face of things with 62 points to 16! South Sydney’s
69 to Paddington’s modest 34 left no room for argu-
ment, and Newtown just topped the century with the
neat 100 to Central Western’s 58. Central Western,
it is worth remembering, is a new club, and made a
very creditable stand against so formidable a crowd
as Sydney can put into the field. The three winners
are now level. Next Saturday Newtown has the bye,
and Sydney will crash into South, and great will
be the crash thereof. At the present time there is
a lot of friction over clearances of players from both
teams —in fact, it might be said the envy, hatred
and malice generated by these clearances have left
both Sydney and South Sydney without a single Chris-
tian virtue between them. It will be a strenuous
go as a result.
* * » *
The chief collision in Melbourne League
hoofball on Saturday concerned St. Kilda and Carlton,
and again a delectable exhibition satisfied most of
the 22,000 onlookers. Saints’ system was a trifle
the better and their kicking less erratic, so they
held a large enough lead to swear by up to the middle
of the last quarter. Then the Old Blues put in some
persistent rushes, scored two goals and got three
points ahead —and great was the joy of their bar-
rackers. But there was still 10 minutes to play, and in
that space the determined Tricolors added two goals
and some behinds and ran out 13 points ahead—4B
to Carlton’s 35. This feat so upset some ill-regulated
Carlton supporters that they rushed the ground and
valiantly charged the umpire, a rather competent
and quite impartial official, whom the law fortunately
rescued. Carlton’s committee is hereby advised to
take drastic steps to suppress these disgruntled
cowards. If they are allowed to thus “get to” an
umpire who fails to please them at this early stage
of the proceedings there will be a case of man-
slaughter before the finals are reached, and that won’t
be good for the game. No spectators are permitted
on the playing area at some of the grounds, and there
is no reason why Carlton blackguards should be
allowed extra latitude. The promising Geelong team
came to town and performed a pleasing turn against
South, losing ultimately bv only 11 points—sl to
South’s 62. The other disturbances were mere exer-
cise canters for one side, Essendon downing ’Varsity
by 86 to 50 ; ’Wood smothering Melbourne by 67 to
43; and ’Roy jumping on Richmond by 69 to' 28.
During the latter scuffle a Riclimondite was put out of
play with a twisted ankle, but as an opponent was
equally misfortunate with a broken rib the handicap
was nicely adjusted, so to speak. That was probably
little satisfaction to either sufferer.
None of the Melbourne Ass. games pro-
mised absorbing interest, though, as it turned out, the
new Hawthorn team gave the premiers (’Scray) a
shock that may do them good, and, could it have
lasted would probably have put them down and out
for the day. As it was the board, at the close of the
riot, showed ’Scray 84 points, Hawthorn 64, which is
distinctly promising for novices. Port, alleged to
have a chance of stopping ’Town’s victorious gallop,
discovered said chance to be Buckley’s, and collected
a paltry 37 points to ’Town’s 85. Essendon made an
even worse exhibition of Brighton by piling up 124
points to 45. North demolished P’ran with 74 to 40.
And the Brickies of Brunswick filled the dittoes of
Northcote with astonishment by 113 to 32.
As is generally known, Soccer Football ; s
now organised on an all-Australian basis, and a few
weeks ago the second annual congress of the “Com-
monwealth Football Association” was held in Bris-
bane. Queensland, Victoria, South Australia, Tas-
mania and Noo Sowth were represented by one dele-
gate each, and the honorary secretary of the N. S.
Wales Referees’ Association attended to bring about
the creation of a Commonwealth Referees’ Associa-
tion. An interesting fact brought out was that in
every State the Association game is on a sound
financial footing, and that in every State it is growing
in popular favor. In N.S.W., where the game has
to contend with two forms of Rugby and the Aus-
tralian rules, 1913 proved a record year. One out-
come of the congress is the possibility of an Aus-
tralian Soccer team being present at the next Olym-
piad at Berlin. But in this writer’s opinion the
Association would be better advised to spend the
money in the development of the game locally. It is
Frank Thorn is too prickly for Lee Johnson
(Sydney Stadium).
also proposed to arrange for the visit of an English
team —and that would have a distinctly stimulative
effect on the game. But the first thing to be placed
on a thoroughly sound basis is an all-Australian
championship. THAT would be an excellent thing,
and do more to foster the game than all the foreign
trips that the Association is ever likely to be able
to afford.
“J.G.” : Bendigo Senior Football Associa-
tion or League has fallen into a large lump of hole
through running after more gate money. _ Years ago
—in fact, pretty well ever since Australian football
was made a gate-money game—Bendigo had four
clubs in the district competition. Sometimes the
quartette was composed of three Bendigo clubs and
one from Eaglehawk. But for the last few years the
associated clubs have been Bendigo City, South Ben-
digo, Eaglehawk and California Gully. The Gully
team’s home ground was at North Bendigo, about
midway between ’Go and ’Hawk, as the cabbies call
them. It was a bit out of the beaten track, and
crowds did not roll up in thousands as at the ’Go
and ’Hawk grounds. Still, the patronage was fair.
This year, however, the big panjandrums of Bendigo
hoofball thought that the Gully team should be
emptied out of the League, because they said it was
too weak to put up a decent scrap with the others,
although, as a matter of fact, the club had a better
record than some. But everybody knows that was
not why the Gullvites were enrptied out on to the
roadway by the Bendigo League. The reason was
that the ground did not produce enough of the great
joss cash. So California Gully was shot dead. The
League potentates than thought that they had only
to ask Castlemaine to come into the vacant chairs,
and so make up the four clubs, and have a couple of
matches every week, and fill the League’s coffers.
The Castlemaine Club didn’t bite too well at the
bait, so some of the bigwigs of the League went
cap in hand to the Castle-ites, and entreated them
to join in with Bendigo. Castlemaine, after toying
with the proposal for a week or two, finally tossed it
away. In desperation the Rochester Club, runner-
up in the Goulburn Valley competition last year, was
invited to join the Bendigo League. Rochester, how-
ever, turned the idea down at once. And now the
Bendigo League has only three clubs, which means
only one game per week instead of the usual two.
The senior toe-ballers will not have the same interest
in the competition as they would have if all the
clubs were engaged instead of each club having a
bye every fortnight, and one match a week won’t fill
up the cashbox as much as two a week.
* * * *
W. P. McElhone, “Fighting Mack” of the
stormy days of the Cricket Board of Control, has
decided not to stand for re-election in the gloomy
month of July, when his term of office expires. He
will be missed. For 21 years he has been in the
front rank when there was battle to be done, and
for years and years there was constant battle.
McElhone kicked and clawed his way through, and
stamped the opposition flat. He was hon. secretary
of the Board of Control for 51 years, and was chair-
man in the wild times during which the “Players”
were in rebellion. He is a solicitor in a large way
of six-and-eightpence, and is also an alderman.
* * * *
“0.K.”: In last Bulletin one “Mont-
alex,” in order to introduce a few personal remarks
upon firearms, says that “0.K.” is much in error;
about old-time pistols, certain kinds of which shot
extremely well.” After which, he extols the virtues
of century-old duelling pistols, etc., and proceeds
to air his knowledge of the subject under discussion.
Now, I would like to remark that I never denied the
shooting abilities of old-time pistols, and was not
much in error, or a little in error. “Montalex”
makes a false allegation as a text for his yarn. That’s
all. What I said was that a lady killed an editor
with one of four bullets from a revolver, which she
was able to conceal in her muff' before she started
to give herself four or five chances of hitting a
vulnerable spot. With an old-time pistol she would
have got only one chance of so doing. Also, she
would have had to cock the hammer before pulling
the trigger, and when she pulled the trigger a mere
flash in the pan might have resulted. I never
dreamed of suggesting that a five-chambered revolver
was equal to a good old duelling pistol as an arm
of precision at a few yards range. But who will
deny that it is a more likely weapon for a lady to
get the opportunity to kill an editor with. In thus
replying to the statements of “Montalex” I make
no special complaint against him in particular, but
I protest against the growing tendency to find a
false excuse for writing “corrective” paragraphs.
Why charge me with error when I didn’t err?
At the Otago (M.L.) Lawn Tennis tour-
nament the other day Miss F. Campbell annexed the
Ladies’ Singles Championship for the sixteenth time
in 17 years ! She first won this event away back in
1896, and every season since, with the single excep-
tion of last year, when she did not compete, she has
had her name inscribed on the championship banner.
That is a record hard to beat, and as the lady is
playing as well to-day as ever her name will prob-
ably go on decorating that banner for years to come.
The “inter-collegiate” sports (confined to
Prince Alfred’s and St. Peter’s Schools) in Adelaide
were won this year by the former—6l points to 50.
The only notable performances were by Fowler, for
the winners: 17sec. in the hurdles, and 41 l-ssec. in
a 300yds. hurdle. But in old-boys’ events, Leslie
Wallmann, Australian champion and an old “Saint,”
did the hurdles in 15 4-ssee. The meeting between
him and lan Pender (“Old Prince,” credited with
time a fraction better than even that), was eagerly
looked for, but somehow did not come off.
At Victoria Park Racecourse (Sydney)
on Saturday Guillaux, the amazing French aviator,
did everything that a man could think of. Also, he
did some things that only a raving madman or a
man drunk with speed and mobility would dream of.
Looping the loop is a trifle to him. He loops it
two ways. In one case he flies over his own head
backwards, and in the- other he dives under his own
feet. Soaring over one’s own head is regarded as
an extra-special feat among airmen, but to this
writer’s mind, diving under one’s own feet is worse.
However, in the sum total they are
the same, except that in one case the
man is outside' and in the other inside
the circle that is being described. But
the astounding fact is that for a
time he flies upside down, and the
man is actually suspended in the car
of the aeroplane between it and the
earth. It is thrilling, amazing, won-
derful, and after seeing Guillaux fly
one comes away wondering how on
earth men manage to kill themselves
in aeroplanes. Yet, nothing is more
certain than that the end of this
Gallic daredevil will be smash." He
tempts fate and’ defies it. As long as
his engine works and the wings of his
wonderful mechanical bird do not break, all may be
well. But—the first accident and Guillaux will pass
out in a blaze of glory, and the ruins of him and
his machine will probably fall on the crowd and do
a heap of murder.
At present in Australia there are practi-
cally no laws or ordinances governing - aviators. It is
even an open question if a man who committed an
atrocity 8000 ft. in the air could be haled before the
statutes. That is, if he committed it in an aero-
plane. If he did the job on a mountain top he
would be amenable; but it is doubtful if, in the
present state of the law a foreigner who flew off a
ship 31 miles out with a stolen maiden could be
arraigned in an Australian court of law. However,
the maiden can probably take care of herself. The
party to be considered is the humble crawler on the
earth. Bast week Guillaux flew over Sydney, and a
wonderful sight he was. Other aviators have flown
over the city. And if any of them had crashed
down into George-street from even 3000 ft. and landed
on the tram this writer was in, the community would
have suffered a horrible loss. It is not right that the
community should be exposed to such risks.
The present scribe can’t be spared. And,
after seeing the ease with which Guillaux flies on
his nead and does the awful corkscrew dive, it is
certain that aviators will become almost as frequent
as dragon-flies. But they should not be allowed to
do showy _ gyrations and take needless chances
over the city. Neither should they when giving
exhibitions be allowed to fly at groups of people to
show how close they can go without taking the heads
off the people aforementioned. It’s a fool’s game,
and if the aviator hasn’t the sense to eschew it, the
Law should compel him to do so. Also, it should
compel Guillaux to change his name to Giddyox.
The glory in Sydney bowlsdom on Satur-
day was the overthrow of the lions in the struggle
for the John Young Shield. Among the many
debacles the picturesque one was the squelching of
Ohatswood by Randwick. Chatswood is the premier
club of the season, and Randwick biffed it out by 86
to 78. City, the holder of the Shield, was also
obliterated, by Petersham, the figures being 89 to 81.
It was something to cheer about. It illustrates the
solemn fact, brethren, that the mighty can always
be rubbed in the grass.
* * * *
The Sydney baseballers blew once more
into the limelight on Saturday and made a hefty
beginning. But the finish was poor. The base-
ballers, strangely enough, though mostly cricketers,
were out of condition, and the games were poor.
Paddington and Leichhardt supplied the tussle of the
day, and Paddington won by four runs to three.
Burwood overwhelmed Mosman-North Sydney by 20
to six : Petersham scrunched ’Varsity by 15 to four;
Waverley knocked Lane Cove to blazes with 10 to
nil. By the way, it is whispered that another Yankee
team will shortly descend on Australia.
Sydney lacrosse blew off the mark also on
Saturday last, but failed to produce anything worth
rushing to drink over. Certainly Mosman’s narrow
defeat of Petersham by four goals to three was a
strenuous business; but it was far from brilliant.
Also, the drawn game between Eastern Suburbs and
St. George with one goal each, was a deadly per-
formance of stodge. Balmain overthrew Manly by
12 goals to two, and the triumph of Sydney "over
University by eight goals to four was the ‘bright
streak in a wilderness of dreary competition.
* * * *
“Ike” Earnsliaw, who died at Sydney last
week, was probably the ablest and most cute trainer
of horses the Ma State has ever mothered. The fact
that a prad was in the Earnshaw stable had a de-
pressing effect on the brute’s price with Judas, the
son of Iscariot O’Fergus. He (Earnshaw) trained
nags for 26 years, and among them were some of the
best and greatest winners. He was a mighty man,
who talked little and talked horse not at all.
* * * »
At Wagga (N.S.W.) race meeting last
week three horses picked up the whole programme of
six events —a sort of monopoly that is fortunately
very rare.
* * * *
The idea of sending an English Eight Oar
crew to Australia has fallen through, as the Thames
Rowing Club has cabled that it will not leave its
own backyard this year. After all, it is just as well.
This international business can be easily overdone.
What is wanted is some scheme by which 20,000'
people will be induced to go rowing on Saturdays and
Sundays. Events like the visit of an English crew
encourage 16 men to row and 20,000 to pay to see
them do it. Which is no good to Australia.
The threatened upheaval of the N.S.W.
League of Wheelmen eventuated last week, when 81
members carried a vote of censure and sack and threw
the lords of the game into the gutter. Anew con-
trolling staff immediately took charge. Chief among
the new arrivals was " Larkin, M.L.A., of Rugby
League fame, as president. Larkin has tons of
energy, and if .he makes, only half the success of
cycling he did of the youngest brand of football the
wheeling game will boom once more. In fact, it will
roar.
■* * * *
The great Dunlop Relay Test finished on
Saturday last; and- on the very last day Northern
Suburbs (Sydney) team went out and landed the
bacon in four hours, six minutes, bo seconds. The
Ixion Club of Melbourne was second with six min-
utes 15 seconds more, and the Maoriland Marshland
Club got the third place with four hours, 13 minutes
28sec. The prizes were £IOO, £SO and £2O. The
individual honors were carried off by Maoriland crack
P. O’Shea, who rode 10 miles (unpaced) in 20min.
42 2-ssec. He got £lO for the fastest relay rider,
and the Coburg (Melb.) team won two progressive
prizes of £lO each during the contest. The previous
world’s best for the 100 miles under similar circs,
was four hours 29min. 30 seconds, put up by the
Christchurch (M.L.) Cycling Club away back in 1908.
* * * *
Half Australia was waiting eagerly on
Tuesday morning to hear how Jerry Jerome fared
with Eddie McGoorty in Brisbane on Monday night.
Thousands had declared that they firmly believed, if
Jeremiah could unwind his usual blizzard, the great
American would be overwhelmed. But, alas, for
fond hopes. Jeremiah retired in the sixth round
with a damaged wrist and, apparently, a sick feel-
ing ; and the triumphant Amurkan walked out and lifted
the large end of the purse. In Melbourne on Saturday
Morey and Daniels put up a more or less tame contest
full of hard work and genuine sloggings. But there was
nothing spectacular about it. Nobody dropped dead,
and it is not on record that anyone took to drink.
It was a good, hard-working scrap, at the end of
which the classic hand of Angelo Marre descended
on the head of Daniels. Jannese and Ryan clashed
on the Monday following, for what they called the
Bantam Weight Championship of Australia. Jannese
had Ryan completely queered in the eighth round.
At Sydney Stadium next Saturday night our Hughie
Mehegan will fight a return battle with Milburn
Saylor, and make an attempt to wipe out the memory
of that unexpected knock-out. But it will be purely
a case of speed.
* * * *
The scrap between Thorn, the Australian
ancient who came back to the ring and did well,
and the Tahmmy Burns protege, Lee Johnson, on
Saturday night, at the Sydney Stadium, was nothing
to write home about. Thorn got all over the colored
boy after the sixth round, but had no more chance of
knocking him out than he had of being whirled
to Heaven in a fiery chariot. The Brown Boy ceased
to hit after the sixth and devoted himself entirely
to defensive tactics with a view to seeing the scrap
out. All of Which was very natural if not spectac-
ular, for Brown Boy had broken his thumb, and felt
altogether too sick to smite his brother bruiser.
Viewed from that standpoint Brown Boy’s perform-
ance was highly meritorious and elegant and master-
ful. What sort of a mess he would have made of
Thorn had his thumb been right is hard to say. He
might have made no mess of him at all; but certain
it is that although Johnson was a damaged person
Thorn failed' Mo mark his coffee-colored dial. The
little white man with the hard face and enormous
head was warned for using the heel of his palm—-
and well he deserved the warning. But considering the
various and Several parts of his anatomy Saylor hits
’ with, the warning to Thorn seemed somewhat of a
joke. Still, it is always pleasing to see the referee
warning anybody who deserves it- —it makes for
confidence; and, as everybody knows, confidence is
capital—a thing this country and everybody in it,
with a few favored exceptions, requires more or less
badly. The combat or disturbance came to a natural
end in the 20th round, when Harald Baker placed
his elegant right hand on the rugged head of Thorn,
and made a wonderful picture of Beauty and the
Other Fellow.


Must You First Get a Beating
Before You Learn to Box?
k:v
.w
■
■
■ < n
Or are you going to do the sensible
thing? Be prepared to defend yourself in a
convincing way.
Uew know how to make the most effective
a’fid scientific use of their natural means of
attack and' defence. That is just one of the
fnaffy sound reasons why YOU should be a
Skilful Boxer, and possess the advantage
over your fellows. I can make you a
Scientific and Effective Boxer.
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST.
So you’ve no excuse for remaining crude
and inexperienced, a good target for the first
“bullv” who torments you.
Let me make you a cool, determined scien-
tific boxer, with a substantial punch and
effective guard—a manly man, well able lo
look after himself, and win the respect of
others.
And what a delightful pastime you’ll find
my tuition! What a valuable exercise for
body and brain !
Full particulars and terras will bo promptly sent you, along with my handsomely-illustrated
Booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Horae.”
Write to-day. It may be the means of saving you the ignominy and bitterness of defeat.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
314 Belmont Buildings,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
LLOYD’S
Briar Pipes
gh
No. 4
ĝ fg
No. 9
h
No.lo
fggh
No. 3
46
ALL ONE PRICE
48 SHAPES.
46
The mounts are Silver, Hall Marked, and,
each pipe is guaranteed not to crack or burn
in a reasonable time. You’ll get more
pleasure out of your favorite tobacco if you
smoke a LLOYD’S.
Any Shape, 4/6, post free.
Write for a copy of my Illustrated Catalog,
“A Discriminating Smoker’s Guide.”
A. M. SOLOMON
“ Cigar Expert,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Williams’ Holder Top
Shaving Stick.
For a practical proof of the
excellence of this new idea,
send 3d. in stamps to The J.
B. Williams Co.,
Box 98 G. P. 0.,
Sydney, and you
will receive by re-
turn mail a liberal
sample exactly
like illustration.
All Wideawake
Chemists sell it.
Melbourne to Adelaide
flotor Record
Broken
by
Murray Aunger, Esq.,
by 5 hours 11 minutes,
using
“SHELL”
BENZINE
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN OIL WELLS COMPANY
NO LIABILITY.
A PRELIMINARY Meeting of the above Company
will be held at the Board Room, Broken Hill
Chambers, 31 Queen Street, Melbourne, on Wednes-
day, May 13, 1914, at 10.15 a.m. BUSINESS: To
elect Directors and Officers; to adopt rules and regu-
lations ; to authorise the registration of the Company
under the No Liability Provisions of Part 11 of the
Companies Act 1890 ; to confirm the Minutes of the
Meeting. ALEX. GORDON, Manager. Dated this
30th day of April, 1914.
KRUPPS
MINING and INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY
The Most
Modern, Efficient and Economical.
CONSULT US before deciding on any other.
WE ARE SPECIALISTS in these lines.
NOYES BROS.
(Melbourne) Pty. Ltd.
499 Bourke St., Melbourne; Bat Perth.
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney) Limited
115 Clarence St., Sydney; Bat Brisbane.
Wool
Hides
Tallow
Sheep Skins
Rabbit Skins
and Other
Produce.
SALES held at frequent
intervals by
A.M.UF.CO.
LIMITED
4 BLIGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Correspondence Invited.
RIGNEY SHOES ARE
the choice of two distinct types of men.
1. The kind of man who doesn’t need to
count the cost.
2. The kind of man who has to get 20/-
for every pound.
You are included in one of these classes we
suspect, therefore why not wear Rigney
Shoes ?
The Boot shown is a Patent Calf Oxford
Shoe, latest perforations. A High-grade,
Made-to-order style.
Price - - 27/0
Also in Tan and Black Velour Calf, 25/-
and 27/6.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a Copy of our Catalog.
ĥgffh
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
There are Good Reasons why so
many Motorists are now fitting
DUNLOP
TYRES
«I There's the undoubtedly better
service they give.
«f Less trouble— consequently
more satisfaction.
«J They stand alone for Quality,
Strength and Dependability.
DUNLOP
RUBBER
CO.
Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide,
Perth, Brisbane,
Christchurch and
Wellington, N.Z
These—in v
addition to the
fact that they cost
no more—are cogent
reasons why “ Dunlops”
are now in such
demand.
TRY THEM AND
TEST THE
MILEAGE
toil
0
////,
c u
Weary John Murray, Chief Secretary, has
issued an order that promotion in the Vic.
Police Force shall for the future proceed by
the rule of age only. Hitherto a policeman
credited with special smartness and efficiency
stood a chance of being lifted over the fat
heads of senior officers. A case in point
occurred a while ago. A sergeant was moved
into the first class nine months ahead, of his
time, and thus became due for a sub-inspec-
tor’s billet previous to four or five other ser-
geants who had been a longer time in the
force. This was strictly according to regu-
lation 1748 of the interminable Police Code,
but it aggrieved those other sergeants whose
advancement had been more in accordance
with the Calendar. Therefore they ap-
proached Weary Murray, the great advocate
of the Go Slow doctrine, and breathed in his
friendly ear, with the result that he over-
ruled reg. 1748 of the Code and decided that
Superiority in police service must stand aside
until Seniority has crawled ahead of it.
There is no short cut to sub-inspectoring.
The sergeants march along the same route in
single file, and, excepting such as may be
pushed off the track by the Chief Commis-
sioner for being very drunk or what not, all
the survivors get there. in order of time.
Sometimes Death steps in and makes a gap
which the men fill up, and Death, being a
cynical joker, usually makes his gap in a
wrong place. The stupidest policemen never
die. They just live on until promotion
crowns their efforts.


fhfhfgfgg
fgh
*
m
“Rare Old Scotch.”
Robertson, Sanderson & Co. Ltd.
LEITH.
The Original Blenders of Whisßy in Bond.


First Friend: “Pve
heard a lot about Pebeco
Tooth Paste. Just how
does it differ from other
dentifrices ? ”
Second Friend : “ I can
tell you. Pebeco Tooth
Paste will do everything the
best ordinary dentifrice will
do—and THEN SOME.
It cleahS, polishes,
and whitens teeth beauti-
fully. But that’s not
all. Pebeco Tooth Paste
protects the teeth from
mouth-acids —the princi-
pal Cause bf tooth decay;
See the difference ? If;
heutralizes acid-mouth.”
332
Pebeco Tooth Paste takes the
one big step forward in the
modern scientific care of the
teeth. It corrects the cause of
tooth decay. This means long
life for the teeth —real tooth
protection.
A sample of “ Pebeco” and an
interesting test, by which you
may prove its value, seat FREE.
Of all Chemists.
Large tubes, 1/6; Small, 1/-
G. ARNOLD,
6 O’Connell Street, Sydney
(Wholesale only.) .
There’s Danger in Unclean False Teeth !
People who use only the best dentifrices
for their natural teeth are ; satisfied to
simply wash the false teeth in water:
This is a positive clanger td health:
It is eafcy to keep artificial teeth fifitt
plates Bweet find cleah with t)EMSO, the
IPferffect Cleanser.
tlowevef discolored and unnatural false
tfeeth may have become, DENSO will
immediately restore them to perfect fit,
cleanliness and color. Send Id. stamp
for postage on FREE Sample. [2
DENSO
Thoroughly
Cleanses!
J. M. Wilkes 8 Co., Alphington, Melb., Vic.
“ The Best of their
kind on Earth ! ” ;
—an American’s Copipliment
to the World-famous
MOSQIEL
RUGS
THE RUG DE LUXE.
Obtainable at all
the Best Shops.
[1
LANCASTER’S
High=class Guns & Rifles.
On view at 'Sole Agents—
HERBERT OXLEY & CO.
26 Strand Arcade, Queen Street,
AUCKLAND, N.Z.,
from whom full particulars and catalogues can
be obtained free by post.
CHARLES LANCASTER & CO. Ltd.
Gunmakers to H.M. King George V., 11 Panton
Street, Haymarket, London, Eng. (Est. 1826)
Freedom, Ease § Comfort
The ...
WELMAR
Skirl
Pat. 1274
24/5/’ll.
Stocked by
Leading
Mercers and
Outfitters.
Manufactured by
Welch, Margetson § Co.
Pty. Ltd.
fghfhgfgfhg
at
w\\
II “ I
2
10
8 H-' 4
7 V 5
9
8
BIG BEN
s
7fis
Presenting two ways to get up early
Big Ben will get yon up on the in-
stalment plan, a little at a time, by
ringing every other half minute for
ten minutes, so you’ll wake up grad-
ually. Or he’ll do the whole job all
at once, with one long, straight, five-
minute ring.
You can set him to do it as you
choose, and shut him off short in
the middle of his call either way.
That makes him two good clocks
in one, to suit everybody’s taste in
early rising.
He plays no pranks. He won’t go
off before it’s time and rob you or
your full measure of sleep. He won’t
go off behind time and rob you of
your.work,time. It’s Big Ben’s busi-
ness to run on time, to ring on time,
and to stay on time.
Big Ben attends to his own busi-
ness and helps you attend to yours
by getting you and the farm hands
out early.
Then he sticks around the house
and keeps time all day for the women
folks so they can have your meals
on time.
There never was a clock that fitted
in better with the farm work.
He’s triple-nickel plated, and so
handsome you’ll want to keep hipi
in the parlor instead of a bedroom.
Stands seven inches tall from the top of
his head to the tips of hi.s toes; has big easy-
winding keys, large hands, and big figures
that you can read at a distance on dark morn-
ings, and is built of good implement steel so
he'! l last for years, He’s doing this kind of
work in millions of homes to-day.
Big Ben is made in La Salle, Illinois,
U.S.A., by Westclox. His price is 1216,
postage 1/- extra. If you cannot find him in
your town, send a money order to his makers’
Australian office, Westclox, 63 Pitt Street,
Sydney. They will have one mailed to
you at once by the nearest jeweller.
The Royal
Tonic
The Tonic
of Queens!
PHOfSFERI
aW*lVjsv».i4uc.
»m>i. *** Gvji. h«c
■"•if'*. tmi *»«•■
temoawr jr ASHTON & M
f ‘■-‘r-
z
m
This is unexcelled as a Nerve Tonic
—a proven remedy r for Nervous De-
bility, Influenza, Indigestion, Sleep-
lessness, Exhaustion, Neuralgia, Ha-,
ternity Weakness, Premature Decay,
Mental Exhaustion,' Loss of Appetite,
Lassitude, Neuritis, Faintness, Brain-
Fag, Anaemia, Backache, Rheumatism,
Headache, Hysteria, Sciatica and 1 dis-
orders consequent upon a reduced state
of the nervous system.
Beware of imitations! The Genu-
ine Phosferine is in a huff package,
labelled. ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD.,
LONDON.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT ALL
CHEMISTS.
\
i
m
our'
Remember ! —the
name BIRD'S has
stood for Purity
for over 75 years.
BIRD'S Jellies are in
a class by themselves!
In the form of a fine powder,
therefore easiest to prepare.
Perfectly clear!—with brilliant
beautiful colours which are a
delight to behold !
—They have the flavor of
the real fresh fruit.
—Their high quality and
superiority are apparent the
moment you taste them,
Birds
Crystal Jelly
Dissolves instantly l Sets firmly !
Sold in pint and quart pk's—many flavors,
If any difficulty in obtaining, write to W. C. Douglass, 53, Liverpool Street, Sydney.
■ . ■ JS4SW
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Hamer”; The half-dollar dies hard. When the
Commonwealth took over the silver coinage from
Britain in 1910 the half-crown Was sentenced to
death. The Mint has not issued since 1910 any of
coins which, when new, so resemble a full moon
in a clear sky, and ■/.yet they seem as numerous and
popular as ever—of as scarce and popular as ever, aa
the ,case may b?. Long may this state of things con-
tinue. It- is just as easy to borrow 2s. 6d. as 25.,
and a long way—-in fact, . two whole beers —more
satisfactory.
* * * *
It is Whispered that synthetic butter is now being
produced as a by-product of palm oil, and that dairy
establishments 6f the future will be the soap factories.
The buttet prflauded fi-fiiri cdc’oa.ntits is uniform, and
is Said t§ Ibe free Of ftlahy of the objections that
apply,,to the ptOduCe Of the' bull’s Wife,, and, more-
over, cart be' produced at, about One-half ■ the cost.
But thp Apsttalian baity. farmer need nflt thfow Up
the, sponge. . The demand, in Europe fot bananas is
said to be insatiable and to be glowing daily. , A
few, years ago bananas were' a luxury only the very
rich could afford. 'Then Joe Chamberlain, who was
Secretary, of State for the Colonies, cast his eagle eye
dh the West. Incjies, which at the time were in a bad
way. He. pelsuaded Elder, Dempster and Co. to
establish a dine. Of StCattiefs ;tO bring in large and
regular supplies of fruit. After sOme initial diffi-
culties were overcome the trade began tO boom, and
since then £7,250,000 have been • expended, on the
building of 57 steamers specially designed for the
banana trade. A usual cargo is 71,000 bunches, and
during the month of February 840,000 bunches of
West Indian bananas were landed in Eurone. And
the demand groWs every day. The West Indies seem
to have reached about the limit of tbeir supply, and
fresh sources are being tapped in Uganda, where the
famous Semliki Valley grows things so fast that the
fruit can be detected swelling visibly. But still the
howl is* “Give uS more!”
“Gazer”: Our method of handling bread is specially
designed to . spread disease. Cooking kills the germs
that come “to'®"With"dtif daily meat and milk. Fruit
and salads can be cleansed with a dip in formalin
solution. But bread can be neither washed nor, for
general use, cooked, and its soft, absorbent surface is
an ideal harbor for microbes. :..j In the journey from
bakehouse ,to table we give it every chance to do its
worst. The bread-carters continually handle the
horses’ reins, and in between times those reins lie
on the ground or are chucked, down in. the corner of
the stable. The hands ."of the. carter ’ often have sores
on them, by which the most terrible diseases may be
transmitted to customers. Also, the baskets in which
the bread enters the house lie at the side of the
drivers’ boots, or are trailed a few inches from the
roadway under the cart. Usually several loaves are
in the basket when the housekeeper makes a choice,
and she, as a rule, paws over the lot before selecting
one. . She doesn’t always wash * her hands first. In
fact, the less her habit of washing the,greater her
habit of pawing. Finally the loaf comes to us on the
pub or cafo table, and every customer grabs it and
encircles it with his fist w’hile he saws a chunk off.
Some provide, rails instead of loaves, but they are not
many. It is explained that there is such a waste
when rolls are used. Here is a job to the hand of
our, health officers!
* * * *
The Customs Department has become diligent in
respect of certain patent medicines calling themselves
fruit preparations and displaying a picture of luscious
vegetables on the wrapper. The Customs argue that
the unsuspicious public would believe that the mix-
ture, exhibiting, say,'a watermelon outside was made
from watermelons, while, as a matter of fact, it may
contain wafer enough but no melon. So, henceforth,
any life-drops, cure-alls, pidk ? me-ups, etc., in bottles
having’fruits or' flowers emblazoned thereon must
really contain a decoction of the emblem. But, so as
not to unduly hurt the feelings of the artists who
draw the pictures and the philanthropists who dish
up the mixtures, the threat to prohibit incorrectly-
described philtres will not take effect until Jan. 1,
1915. Meanwhile the purchasing public must cure
itself by its faith in the picture on the cover.
“Hamer”: The sorrowing relative at three hob a
moan has no monopoly of the freak verse business.
A firm of house agents was guilty of this in the S.
M. Herald last Saturday:— '
“Ah, well for us all some sweet home lies
Deeply buried from human eyes.”
The allegedly buried home was in Ashfield, and the
firm wanted £3500 for it.
“John P.”: The native race of Maoriland
is having its collective leg pulled in great
style. The present “king” is a young fellow
known as Te Rata, and he possesses a more
or less adviser in Tupu Taingakawa. Tupu
having heard rumors of the general gladness
of London and of the gayness and glitter
thereof, decided to get himself and “King”
Te Rata sent along to interview George Five
on behalf of the Maori race. But a great
collection of Maoris, assembled at Waihi at
Tupu’s invitation, resolved, by a large majo-
rity, that the Time Was Not Ripe.
That didn’t sidetrack Tupu and “The
King.” They booked passages by the Niagara
from Auckland, and departed in a whirl of
“kia ora.” The mission to the Cold Country
is to obtain restoration of the lands confis-
cated as the result of the Maori wars, and
to obtain fishing and forest-rights, in accord-
ance with the spirit of the Treaty of Wait-
angi. And if nothing is doing in that direc-
tion there are plenty of pubs and racecourses
and billiard tables to fall back on.
HER WHITE FANGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"TEETH I ! —£l deposit and Is. per week! ! !’’
— Dentist’s advt.
Once when you were my Toothless Queen
No white teeth gleamed your lips between;
When on your face I’d dote,
I’d look straight down your throat.
When in those dear, dead days you smiled,
Youfi grin Was ragged, jagged, wild;
Hut nOW white ttibblets shew
Like tombstones in a row.
They fascinate me whdn they slip,-
And hang detached from either lip,-
, Then, with a clicking ctasli,-
Back to their stations dash.
You are not now so dear to me
With all that white machinery;
You fret me greatly, coz,
When o’er your plate you buzz.
You kissed With warm, soft mouth last week ;
Now you press pfircSlairt ’grfirist my cheek 1
God’s mercy ! On the heath’;
You rub me on your teeth!
Ah, draw your fangs to show you’re true,
And yammer as you used to do!
That guillotine, my dear,
Snips off your words too clear.
Return them now, my snapping maid,
Whatever you have on them paid !
Some stranger from the south
Will cram them in her mouth
And tell her husband on the land,
“A bargain! Got ’em second’and!”
N.s.w.
TIME-PAYMENT TUSKS.


<?
&
tel
®):>
7
The Receipt is Worth Money to You
Most receipts are of value only to the person who receives
them.
The National Cash Begister receipt is of value to you,
because it means that at the time it was printed'the amount
was added on .the adding counter under lock and key, and
must be accounted for. ' - . '
It makes you sure of'your profit on every transaction.
it saves money that might have been lost through care-
lessness and mistakes.
It enforces a correct record inside the register, and
shows how much money should be in the cash drawer.
The National Cash Begister pays for itself, then pays
yon.
Write for information about the style and size especially
fitted for the needs of your store. • 1
The National Cash Register Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE ——ll9 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches in all Principal Cities.
The World is its Kingdom
L.&G. HARDTMUTH’S -
ROH-INOOR
\\
fg
PENCIL
From all parts of the World come the materials
with-which the “Koh-i-noor” is composed;
to all parts of the World goes the completed
pencil—perfected by patent processes, match-
less skill and 125 years’ experience in pencil
manufacture. Made in 17 degrees and Copying
Of Stationers, &c., everywhere, i
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, Eng.
Australia : 350. George St., Sydney. Write for List.
REMINGTON
UMC
ĝhg
44 Calibre
f:
r
Remington-UMC
•44 Remington
hfgh
Pump action
- ——^
Allows eleven shots—as slowly or -as j
fast as you like. Your hand on the sliding i
forearm controls the action, ejecting at the
side and reloading with each backward and
forward motion. Handy and fast in the field.
The solid-breech, hammerless Remington-UMC con-
struction protects all moving parts—protects the
shooter, too.
Like the well-known Remington-UMC. 22 Repeater,
it has a simple take-down; and cleans from the breech.
Remington-UMC
.44 W.C.F.
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
P.0.80x 686 , Melbourne
For sale by leading dealers everywhere
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
ARCHER AND CO., 24 Bond St., have
TRUST MONEYS TO LEND in large
and small sums, on Interests under Wills and
in Intestate Estates, and on Freehold Mort-
gage. Lowest rates of interest.
fhg
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
fhg
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour, to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
Price 1/- per Bottle. Of all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
ĝh
ĥĝ
ƒg
Double 8 Single Barrel Shotguns
have Barrels and Lugs Drop-Forged in one piece.
Made of Specially Selected Steel— Strongest
where other Guns are Weakest.
For Catalogue and, detailed information write to
ARTHUR H, HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens
Arms and Tool Company,
G.P.O, BOX 86,
ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
1
/VNTISEPTIC THROAT
These wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles are made to
a formula of the Liverpool Throat Hospital, and act like a
charm in keeping- the voice and throat in perfect condition
for: prolonged vocal exercise.
Used by the Leading -Singers throughout the world. The
celebrated Madame Tetrazzini writes: “I thank you for the
boxes of Evans’ Pastilles sent me, which I find excellent and
efficacious.”
Sole Manufacturers- 0F ALL CHEMISTS.
EVANS SONS LESCHER 8 WEBB LTD., LONDON.
Ask for “EVANS’ ” Pastilles, and see you get them. [1
<
ĝfh
Talking of Ellen Terry—her famous jubilee testi-
monial performance at Drury Lane, London, was
undoubtedly the biggest compliment ever paid to an
actress. “Everybody” of note figured on the general
committee, from leading literary, artistic and scien-
tific lights down to earls and dukes by the dozen and
half-dozen. The gathering of stars included Melba,
Duse, Caruso, W. S. Gilbert, Genee, the Bancrofts, the
two Coquelins, Mrs. Pat Campbell and all the. actors
worth mentioning.' The souvenir programme was
enriched with special paintings and drawings by
Alma Tadema, Edwin Abbey, John Sargent, Byam
Shaw, Bernard'Partridge, Walter Crane and others.
Something; niore .than distinction as an actress was
needed to account for Ellen Terry’s popularity with
people who are not addicted to the habit of throwing
bouquets. She is a great artist, and a remarkably
winsome personality. .
“Moana”: According to “C. Ockney” (B. 2G/3/’l4)
Gilbert once said to Sullivan, “What’s the matter
with Barrington? lie's singing in tune!” It is a fine
imaginative effort on the part of “Ockney,” or_ who-
ever was responsible for the yarn. Gilbert notoriously
knew absolutely nothing about music. To him the
thing that is alleged to soothe the frenzied zoo.-in-
habitant was jtist plain noise. The only tune he
could pick out when he heard it was “Gor Save,” and
he couldn’t be absolutely sure of that unless the audi-
ence rose up and began to struggle with its coat.
A lot of people in Australia must have heard, or
heard of, Georgina Burns, longtime a prima donna
of the old Carl Rosa Opera Co., which cleared the
way in Britain for the bigger touring enterprises of
Beecham, Quinlan and others. Georgina Burns is
now a penniless old. woman; and G. R. Sims at
latest date was collecting votes for her admission to
a home for incurables.
“Bloggs”: “Come Over Here” is booming in Mel-
bourne, whereas it was a disappointment in Sydney.
Inter-State jealousy is the usual explanation of the
fact that . a show which goes well in one capital
slumps in another. An idiotic theory, to
my mind. I sat through the first night of “Come
Over Here” in Sydney. It was awful. The unfor-
tunate Dix had been given about a fortnight to write
the “book,” and in addition he had had to produce
the show. The comedians had not had time to
construct “business” of their own. They were as
dull as clerics. Never have I seen a deader house.
The press, with the exception of one misguided
paper, heartily. damned the production, either .with
faint praise or outspoken abuse. Six weeks later, I
went again. It was a different show. That excel-
lent humorist, Jack Cannot, had written an entirely
new part for himself, in a manner of speaking. I
don’t know if the management' forced him, despite
his cries of protest to accept 14 per cent, of the
gross takings in recognition of his feat; but anyhow
it was worth that, or more, to them. The nigger
humorist was infinitely less depressing. A number of
weak items had been cut out. Things went with a
gratifying rush, where aforetime they ■ had dragged
hopelessly. But b!y this time "the damage had been
donei The revue had earned a name for pretentious
dulness. It arrived in Melbourne after having en-
joyed the advantage of three months’ rehearsal in
Sydney. Of course it boomed. Any show which
is tried for months on one dog is likely to be well
received if it is submitted later, in its perfected
form, to a very similar variety of dog.
“Stargazer”: The profession is passing this yarn
about with small compunction. Two people saw a
quaint strartger in the street. “That’s the cele-
brated William Howler,” said one. “It does look
like him,” said the other. They moved up for a
closer inspection, but the alleged identity passed on.
“I could swear ,it was William Howler,” repeated
Observer No. I with growing concern. “Let’s follow
him, and see what impression he makes on the
crowd,” said No. 2. They followed. A few others
showed interest, and took up the tail. “It’s he all
right,” said No. 1. Just then the gentleman dis-
cussed gave a blind man a halfpenny. Then the
followers turned away. “Mistaken identity!” said
No. 1. “But it’s the dead ring of the great William
Howler in all other respects,” said No. 2.
“Jay”: I give “Sealed Orders” three weeks, at
most, at Sydney Theatre Royal. It isn’t a bad bellow-
drama. But its success, in London, was due as much
to the fact that it was a sort of topical revue when
it was first staged as to its merits as a play. The
Flower Show, the fashionable gambling resort, Chris-
tie’s, etc., are all familiar features of every London
season; dirigibles were in vogue when “Sealed
Orders” was written ; a war-scare was on, and everyone
was talking about Dreadnoughts and clamoring to be
shown a Dreadnought, if only on the stage. The
hoodwinking of, an entire ship’s company by a bogus
potentate, who ca-me aboard in state and received
the honors due to a ruling monarch, was fresh in the
popular mind. Bond-street Was full Of CagliostrOs.
And so on. None of these things has much interest
for Australians. And the play ish’t nearly good
enough to live on its own. It might have dime big
business had it been re-written skilfully on Aus-
tralian lines. The foreign enemy could ■ have been
an Asiatic Rower. The battleship could have been
the Australia. And set-pieces of local interest could
have been substituted for representations of places
with Which this country has no acquaintance. A big
scoop will be scoied by some enterprising manage-
ment, on these lines, some day.
“Alva”: Ruth Fournal, played by Dorothy Whit-
aker in “Sealed Orders’.’ at Sydney Royal, has a rare
distinction among heroines of melodrama. She is not
pursued by a villain who wants either to marry or
to ruin her. On the contrary, her father desires to
make her rich and happy, and the only lover in sight
is the one who almost proposes to her the first time
he sees her. It is something to find, a melodrama
ingenue who is not flying all the time from violent
assault or poverty, as most of them have to do.
“Ami”: Although Titheradge seems to be our chief
daffodil expert, he came first to Australia with no
knowledge of flowers or taste that way. Fishing was
his hobby, and he practised it at Riddell's Creek,
towards Macedon (Vic.). There he fell in with the
local nurseyman, an intense daffodilian. Titheradge
was impressed by his enthusiasm, and said “You
ought to boom your fancy.” “Ah,” said the fancier,
“if I had your position, as the most favorite actor, 1
could do it.” With much persuasion he induced
Titheradge to accept a selection of the finest bulbs,
and undertake to plant them. The nurseryman had
some influence with the Melbourne Ladies’ Club,
known as the Austral Salon. He induced the mem-
bers to apply to Titheradge for a lecture on daffodils.
Easy-going Titheradge complied, and fagged it up
from botany manuals. After meeting with rapturous
applause he became really obsessed with the flowers.
When he left Australia for the second' time he sold
his collection of bulbs for- £5OO.
The British rights of “Antony and Cleopatra,” the
film which is said to be the last word in moving
pictures, have been sold by auction for £B5OO to
Messrs. Ruffles, of London. The sale drew all the
chief figures in the cinematograph world to the
offices of the Cines Company, where the auction
was held. The bidding started at £4OOO, and rose
by five hundreds to £B5OO. It was explained by
the auctioneer that the rights were for Great Britain
and Ireland, the Channel Islands and the Isle of
Man, and would run for three years. The Aus-
tralian rights have been secured by Australasian
Films ’ Ltd. at a big figure, and arrangements have
been made with Spencers Ltd. to control the Sydney
screening at the Lyceum. ‘
“Private Boxer”: There is a lot in heredity.
Viscount Dangan, son and heir of the much-divorced
Earl Cowley, has just married an American girl, May
Picard by name, who joined the musical comqdy "show
in which he was supering, to fill up, as it were. This
despite the fact that he had previously plighted his
troth to the lovely Pearl Aufrere, of the London
Gaiety. It may well be that Pearl will go for Dangan
for “breach,” as Phyllis Broughton, a Gaiety dancer
of years gone by, went’ for his dad when he was
Viscount Dangan. Phyllis got £lO,OOO, but, con-
sidering the high cost of living nowadays, Miss
Aufrere’s dividend should'be bigger.


Noiseless, Durable, Elastic
'——Cloth Pinions. ——
General Electric Co. (U.S.A.) Cloth Pinions are not a mere
substitute for cast-iron, but something much better to serve a
purpose not met by any other kind of gear and pinion.
They will outwear cast-iron; are silent and smooth running; will
withstand shocks; are not affected by water or oil, heat or cold,
and extend the life of the meshing orear.
General Electric Co. (U.S.A.) CLOTH GEARS
and PINIONS can be used anywhere.
Made in all sizes up to 26in. Diameter, either finished or blank.
SEND FOR COPY OF BULLETIN NO. 4110.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY,
217 Clarence Street, SYDNEY. Queen & Little Collins Streets, MELBOURNE, VIC.
AGENTS
,
Chas. Atkins & Co., Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
Uiibehaun & Johnstone, Currie Street, Adelaide, S.A.
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd., Edwards Street, Brisbane, Q.
National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd., Dunedin, Auckland & Wellington, N.Z.
!
CAUTIO is/
I
2^and7rav|U^
OR MILK
Mil*
MALTED
JBOCKa ENOIA*"
SEEING IS BELIEVING
Get a bottle of Horlick’s Malted Milk, take it as
directed, and see the effect upon your own health.
It will speedily build you up —both in brain, brawn,
•and body. A test like this will show you how good
Horlick’s is—better than any amount of talk.
Get a bottle
to-day. Of all
Chemists and
Stores.
Ask for H,orlick’s
at the Soda
Fountain.
HORLICKS
MALTED MILK
fgh
*«
99
Socks and
Stockings
To ensure having the best socks and stockings it is
possible to buy, insist on having “JfaMOVil There
are no hose in the world so good, because no
other have the all-wool qualities., the unshrinkableness
and the soft silkiness of
Perfectly knitted from the best Australasian wools,
they fit snugly and comfortably. They are dyed with
fast hygienic dyes, and they carry with them the
makers’ guarantee to replace any pair that shrinks.
"faien l* Socks and Stockings .are made
in all styles and prices for men,
ladies and children. /f your dealer does
not slock them insist upon his getting them
for you?
In case of difficulty, write
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
A n 40
fg
fghg
ĝ
hfgh
BROWN-BOVERI
TURBO-BLOWERS «m COMPRESSORS.
Blower House of one of the most important iron works in England. This
installation includes 6 Brown-Boveri blowers for a duty of 25,000 cubic feet
at 6-101 b., and two blowers for a duty of 28,000 cubic feet at 6-151 b. per
square inch, and in addition 3 turbo alternators of 1000 k.w. and 3 of
2000 k.w.
Advantages :
High commercial efficiency
Small floor space
Require butUight and inexpensive
foundations
Low maintenance cost
Flexibility in operation.
We have now in hand six blowers similar to thos
illiistrated for the Mount Lyell Mining
and Railway Co. Ltd.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES t
HAES & EGGERS, LTD.,
i3V.' * *
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.


Shipping;.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
♦Twin Screw. All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
BASSE NO Ell ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB 4 £2(l.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 US.''.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTc(., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Goodwills fc Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGL AN D.
Fitted with .Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers.; Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Maiitin Place, Sydney. •
Hanking, Public Companies, &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
i Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President)'*W, H. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
DEPOSIT YOOR SURPLUS MONEY
in this Bank, where it will earn INTEREST
at 3 i% on the first £2OO, and 3% on the
excess to £5OO, and be REPAYABLE ON
DEMAND when you require it.
Deposits Received from Is.
MONEY TO LEND ON MORTGAGE
at Low Interest to Farmers and Settlers and
on Approved City and Suburban Freeholds.
This Bank has No Agencies at Post Offices.
Represented in the State by 118 Branches
and over 500 Asrencies.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretnrv '
THE-
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £382,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
Hon. ROBERT PHILP, M.L.A. ; Hon. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 242 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank nf Commerce
LIMITED;
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. ..£2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,634
PAID-UP (31st Dec., 1913) .. ..£1,195,446
RESERVE FUND £35,000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon,
Esq.; Arthur S. Barton, Esq. ; Frank N.
Yarwood, Esq.; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid-Up 413,418 0 0
Reserve Fund . . .. . . 154,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq. ; Hon. J 3. W. Gray, M.L.C. % .
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE .... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The (olonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
*l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
tiavelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Director-:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts. C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The lion. Bruce Smith. K.C.. M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary
Shipping:.
XT ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD, N.D.L.
■A-l IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS,
TO COLOMBO,. SUEZ, .NAPLES, GENOA, ALGIERS,
SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP. AND BREMEN.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Installation.
All Steamers fitted with Laundry.
FARES TO LONDON: 1., £7l/10/-; 11., £4O;
111., £l5 to £l9. RETURN: 1., £lO7/5/-; 11.,
£6O; 111., £3O/12/- to £37/16/
LOHMANN and CO., General Agents, 7 Bridge-st.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
Steamers sail as under (circumstances permitting).
And every 28 days thereafter.
The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
, , Australia and San Francisco.
•Cabins de luxe, with private bath, etc.
tOne, two and three-berth rooms.
* -
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION SiS. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
■- Steamers Fitted with Wireless.
SALOON: FARES— Third-class.
London, from £45. £l6 to £2O.
Capetown and Durban, from £3O. £l3/13 to £l7/17/-
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line,
£llO (First-class both ways) ; £B2 (Second-class
Orient).
ROUND-THE-WORLD TICKETS from £122/10/-.
SALOON CAIRNS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables. Ac., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD. Agents in Australia
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
♦CAIRNS
(♦Transhipping for
t’h i s and other
Queensland ports). J
NORTH.
OOOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney May 9.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne May 13.
Leaves Sydney May 16.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne May 20.
Leaves Sydney May 23.
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports).
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney May 9.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney May 16.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
ISLAND TOURS
TO PAPUA
(via the Queensland Coast.)
A Charming Combination
Tour.
S.S. “MORINDA,”
MAY 27.
Brisbane, Cairns, Port
Moresby, Samarai, Woodlark
Island and Yule Island.
£2O.
gh
TO THE NEW HEBRIDES
(via Lord Howe and Norfolk
Islands).
53 DAYS’ TRIP.
S.S. “MAKAMBO,”
JUNE 1.
Calling at about 100 Trading
and Mission Stations
throughout the Group.
*25-
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., Head Office, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital - , -
Reserve Fund ■ -
Reserve Liability -
,
DIRECTORS:
£3,500,000
£2,350,000
£3,500,000
£9.350.000
The Hon. Sir Charles Iv. MacKellar, lit., M.L.C
President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq;
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand McLaunn, Kt., xSi.L.C.
The Hon. James T. Walker
The Hoii. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Alfred George Milson, Esq.; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office— George St.. Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
336 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected', Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
' of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up . . . . £1,976,168 16 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,680,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,656,168 15 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen. Esq.. . . . Chairman.
ITon. H. E. Hater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses. M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General t Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 13 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton ; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of Ijew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £1,000,000
Preference Shares . • • • • • 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) -Paid-
up , . , . . . , , .. 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . • . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain-and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £544,304 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 156,486 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 77,506 0 0
£778.291 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ""
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budgre Row, Cannon Street, London,
26 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in Tiie Lone Hand each month.
Price 6d.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers, 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
SONOMA .. .. j June 6 Aug. 1 | Sept. 26 I Nov. 21
VENTCJRA .. | July 4 Aug. 29 j Oct. 24 | Dec. 19
The through trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE,
N.DTLTT N.Z .SrCo. and S. S.-fe ArCo.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
JHE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WDOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. W’ALES and QUEENSLAND' RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d.; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE,* 2&1 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. ' BELL, Managing Director.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF?
"\/OU begin to
look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
gh
Lockyer’s
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp : is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
Shipping.
THEADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping: at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WANDILLA(77SS
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
May and June 6.
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steerasre Passengers.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
GRANTALA, Mav 16.
WARILDA (7713 tons).
May 30, June 27 and
July2s. Wireless Tele-
graphy.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO., LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
*Triple-screw steamer, fitted with cabins-de-luxe en
suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal A Shire Lines
STEAM TO LONDON AND LIVERPOOL.
T.S.S. ESSEX.
11,000 Tons.
CAPTAIN BROWN.
BRISBANE
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
about JUNE 5, 1914.
„ JUNE 10, 1914.
„ JUNE 14,.1914.
„ JUNE 18, 1914.
FARES TO LONDON
Saloon, £4O. Third-Class, £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-
Saloon Fares from Brisbane, £2 extra.
Steerage, £l/1/- extra.
Saloon accommodation consits of all two-berth
cabins on Upper Deck situated amidships. Well-
lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provi-
sions from cool chamber throughout the voyage.
Electric light throughout. Return- and round-trip
tickets issued via Cape and/or Suez Canal. Prepaid
passages arranged. Fitted with wireless.
For illustrated pamphlets and full information
apply:—
BIRT & COMPANY, LTD., Svdney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER, SMITH & COMPANY LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
-
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Uiimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH A ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And Alt Ports.
WAVERLEY PENS
FOR SWIFT LEGIBLE WRITING NO PEN
CAN COMPETE WITH A WAVERLEY.
ITS ENTICING ACTION, ITS SMOOTH
TURNED-UP POINT, AND ITS DURA-
BILITY, MAKE IT INCOMPARABLY THE
BEST NIB AND THE CHEAPEST. THE
RESERVOIR WAVERLEY CAN DO 200
WORDS WITH ONE DIP. TRY IT.
SIXPENCE PEft BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS.
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
521 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE s


Hotels. &c.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 15/6 per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
tiie most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. UllE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
m
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Go lden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/11.
Directions with every
bottle
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
oeooooooe©
for a fair dtnkum go
TRY THE
MEZON
Accordeons
The World s Best
35/-, 42/- 63/-
Sole Agent:
LYONS,
Bourkest.,Melb.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
ItTw
Bank of Hustralia
1 SYDNEY
. • Jf ‘V W .
This Bank is open for all classes of GENERAL BANKING BUSINESS
STANWAY HOUSE, KING STREET, SYDNEY
Also at Newcastle, Broken Hill, Canberra, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, Brisbane, Rock-
hampton, Townsville and London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the worid. Bills negotiated or iorwarded for
collection. Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
Advances made against approved securities.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
Central Office: 30 CASTLEREAGH STREET (top of Moore Street), SYDNEY.
Branches in the above cities and 2,000 Agencies at Post Offices throughout the Commonwealth
Deposits from 1/- to £3OO. Interest at 3% per annum.
Deposits or Withdrawals may be made at any Branch or Agency- within the Commonwealth.
JAMES KELL Dkputt Govkrnoe.. April, 191 L DENISON MILLER, GovmRSOE
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney. N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
CLOCKS
are a SPECIAL FEATURE of our Business.
OF EVERY MAKE AND SHAPE.
OUR OUTPUT IS ENORMOUS.
From an inexpensive kitchen clock to an imposing
grandfather for the hall.
We have just landed a very special selection of Oak
and Mahogany Mantle Clocks, striking the hours and
half-hours.
They are architecturally handsome, and in perfect
harmony with the present-day furniture.
We only sell absolutely reliable clocks, and they are
guaranteed for 15 years and kept in order (breakages
excepted) for two years.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House
Plain Figures. in Sydney ’
strictly cash. 23 and 25 Hunter Street.
Very handsome Solid Oak 8-day Clock, strik-
ing hours and half-hours, and standing 14in.
high 75/-
THE “PLUM” RAZOR IS A REAL TREASURE.
cr*rw
Hundreds of satisfied shavers have proved the merit of the “Plum.”
It is worth half a dozen inferior razors, and will give satisfaction to
every man who likes an easy shave. The blade of a “Plum” is made
from the finest silver steel, and it is so accurately tempered that the
edge is always keen. Why not possess a “Plum” Razor, and experi-
ence the satisfaction of easy shaving every day in the year ? Send
along your order to-day.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR, 10/6 post free.
We keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a handsome present.
All the Above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
Be Independent of Horse,
Railway and Tram.
£59.
Indian riotocycle
Winner of Australian
Tourist Trophy Race in
competition with the
cream of British Manu-
facture.
We won First and Second,
and made the Two Fastest
Laps.
Write for Catalog D.
Hendee Mfg. Company,
109 RUSSELL STREET,
MELBOURNE, VIC.
THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE —■
THE FAMOUS
Sche bier Carburetter
The best Carburetter for ALL PETROL ENGINES
—either Land or Marine, Stationary or Moving.
The Schebler makes your engine develop
greater horse-power for a less consumption
of fuel.
The Schebler holds many world’s records.
Booklet and all information free.
Correspondence invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for Australia.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
ONCE- BIT
TWICE, SHY.
How many unfortunate Engine Buyers in this State now wish they had profited
by their neighbor’s experience and purchased a
“MARSHALL” Steam Engine
O'
Made by thoroughly competent BRITISH workmen from the very
best materials the world produces.
THE MARSHALL
represents the Highest Grade and Most Reliable Engine ever
offered for sale in this or any other country.
Take no chances, but pin your faith to an article with a reputation. Latest Pattern Portables, all sizes, 2 to 40 h.p.
Steam and Oil Tractors. Vertical and Horizontal Stationary Engines. Vertical and Colonial Type Boilers.
BEST POSSIBLE TERMS. Discount for Cash. Descriptive Catalogs Free.
R. L. SCRUTTON CO. LTD
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
“WHERE YOU ALWAYS GET A FAIR DEAL.”


Have your WorKing'
SHIRTS
made to your Order
for 5/m
If you buy your shirts made like you
have a suit, to special order, you’re
bound to get much greater comfort
longer service and appreciable satis-’
faction all round.
THE SOFT CANVAS SHIRT for
Bush or Station Wear is carefully
made to your special order. Has turn-
down collar and pocket, like the
picture. Neat patterns.
SEND FOR SAMPLES FREE.
51 - each; or 28/6 for Six.
Order all your Shirts “to measure.” Thev
cost no more at y
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
Toowoomba Brisbane Townsville.
United States and Mexico appear to
be giving heed to the wise counsels of peace
counsels of benign peace and harmonious
progress which are royally advanced bv oc-
casional and cheerful discussions with Kin°-
George IV. topnotch whisky.* °
A Hot Weather Trouble Avoided.
TRUMILK (SKIM)
POWDER.
Place Powder on top cold water and beat with Egg Whisk for a minute. Result-
beautiful milk free from germs, suitable for all purposes,
NO MILK GOING SOUR. NO ICE NEEDED,
Ask your grocer for a small tin.
Queensland Agents: WEBSTER & CO. LTD., Mary Street, Brisbane.
New South Wales Agents: FOGGITT JONES & CO. LTD., Sussex Street, Sydney.
IN BANANA LAND
Died at Windorah (Q.) a few days ago
Michael Ilackett, aged 97. He had battled
with the climate of the Northern State since
he arrived there from Galway (Ireland) 90
years ago.
Delicately mentioned in Brisbane dailies
that “six chemists” were prosecuted and
fined for selling as refined paraffin a crude
product that was a fraud and a sham.
Incidentally, it transpired that the stuff
was bought at Is. 9d. a gallon and sold at
Its. 6d. a pint —a profit of something like
1000 per cent. When Billy Milk-oh drops
10 per cent, of water in the can Brisbane
journals print his name and address in full,
but when Queen-street druggists perpetrate
their little job they are considerately alluded
to as “six chemists.” Evidently the drug
business is an anonymous concern.
“Rangan” writes: When once a curse gets
on a railway or a North Shore bridge it is a
hard thing to lift. The work goes like the
Devil on his way to mass. The deviation
from Drayton to Toowoomba was promised
by politicians 47 years ago. After a short
respite of 20 years (during which the pro-
mise had been repeated perhaps 2000 times,
and caught 10 times as many votes) a sur-
vey was taken. After another short interval,
this time of 10 years, Parliament authorised
the proposed line. Then after an interval of
six years some of the costs were placed on
the Estimates. Finally, when another 11
years had flashed past, bringjng the time up
to a week or so ago, the Minister for Rail-
ways rushed to the front, and turned the
first sod. Given another 15 years or so to
import the rails, and five more to get the
sleepers, then—why, then we shan’t be long,
provided we get the money.
VICARIOUS POLITENESS.
“By crikey , Cohen! That’s a nice bit o’ goods you raised your hat to. Who is she?”
“I don't know her name. But she’s a friend of my brother’s , and I borrowed his hat
this morning.”
“Rangan”.: Bananaland is feeling the need
of decentralisation even in its sport. In the
selection of two candidates to represent
Queensland in the Bisley team, the Centre and
North were ignored and the tests confined al-
most solely to Brisbane riflemen. The rest of
the State, especially the North, reckons that
something will have to be done. As a start
. the.N.Q. Rifle Association has shown its faith
in its crack shot, Grosskreutz, by financing
him to Bisley as an independent competitor.
Half the elderly Tories in Brisbane are
looking expectantly forward to Denham’s
next batch of nominations to the Leg. Coun-
cil. It is safe to predict, on past experience,
that the Cabinet will appoint no one who
appears likely to survive his appointment by
12 months. Singular to notice that the
farmers, who are the backbone of Q. Liberal-
ism, haven’t a single representative in the
House sacred to bucolic stolidity.
Apparently the importing disease is in-
curable in Australia. As an instance, the
Australian branches of the British Medical
Association propose to publish a medical
journal, and their first inspiration is to im-
port an editor from England. If they got a
man from Thursday Island or Cairns they
might do better. Plain British diseases like
scarlet fever and phthisis and rheumatism
are known to all practitioners, but up in
Northern Australia, where the tail of Asia
slops over into this country, there are im-
ported complaints that no ordinary British
medico would know from a bar of soap.
A Texas (U.S.) cotton-ginner, in a big
way, E. E. Wood, was in Brisbane lately
displaying some magnificent cotton that he
himself picked at Capella, Central Queens-
land. Wood asserts that Central and West-
ern Q. are ideal places for cotton-growing
and that scores of American planters would
come across if they knew the country’s capa-
bilities. He scouts the old yarn that cotton
needs cheap colored labor to make it a suc-
cess. “The community where I live,” he
says, “is exclusively white and all the’work
is done by whites, a man making at cotton-
picking from Bs. to 16s. a day.” Yet 50
years ago the Southern States of U.S. were
supposed to be climes where the white would
degenerate and the black alone could perform
manual labor. How the white Texan or
Georgian would laugh at the “degenerate”
twaddle of our Australian alien-coddlers.
The Motor Boats of Brisbane.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The motor-boats of Brisbane have shown
their shining heels
To all the graceful sailing craft that lift their
lazy keels.
lhe wind that rules the sailing boats, she is
a fickle Miss
She sweeps them from her with a squall and
swings them to a kiss.
rhe king of Naphtha is a wight who caves
for no wind’s guile,
She cannot fright him with a frown, nor
move him with a smile;
But right across the silver ridge, the ripple-
chain he rives
And takes no heed of drift or flow, but
straight ahead he drives.
The sailing boats of Brisbane they flirt a
snowy wing,
In amber seas, by amber shores, as mighty
birds they swing,
Or where the rocky eyots hide their caves
with walls of palm
As nesting birds they dream and doze
against an opal calm !
The motor-boats of Brisbane they skate
along the tide,
By Norman Park, by Hamilton, into the
bay they ride,
Through every reach the engines throb, and
cross the sleeping bars,
To cut, like diamond on glass, the reflexes
of the stars!
One night I saw the twin white moon the
mirroring water holds
Sink hidden in the floating weeds among the
river’s folds,
Across her couch the bold god smote, and
seeing she was fair.
He flung the blossdmsTrom her bed and left
her beauty bare.
But when a sailing boat crept by, it spread
its sail to hide
In chivalry her modest breast beneath the
whispering tide.
The motor-boats of Brisbane are products of
to-day;
They fight the power of wind and wave and
rule, the water way.
The sailing boats of Brisbane, courtly and
proud and kind
Are Old-World cavaliers who shake their
ruffles in the wind!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Bbisbane, May 2, 1914.
My Deab Thabgomin dah, —-
The most noticeable event in a somewhat
dull week was the bal masque, which
masqued at the South Brisbane Technical
College on Monday night. The decorations
were mostly greenery, with scarlet poppies
(made of paper) and Japanese lanterns. The
Macgregor was not well enough to be pres-
ent, but Lady Macgregor, upholstered in
apricot brocade, and the Talbot aide turned
the lustre of their countenances upon the
company for an hour or two. Julius Napo-
leon Knight and Irene Brown added the
radiance of their picturesqueness somewhere
near midnight, and judged the fancy cos-
tumes. Evelyn Hutton and Eric Doyle
were first past the post, as it were, and no
protest being entered the dividend was duly
paid out. The lady represented an Arab, or,
should I say, an Arabess? And the gentleman
also hailed from a neighboring desert for the
occasion. Incidentally, there has been a lot
of heartburning over the judges’ decision.
I here generally is.
The committee was mostly made up of
pretty girls, backed by Mrs. Doyle (wife
of the medical man), Mrs. Duff, Mayoress of
Toowong, and others. All things considered
and duly reflected upon in a spirit of Chris-
tian piety, it is rather difficult to understand
why the ball wasn’t more of a success. Only
about 100 dancers gyrated on the and
the gallery was not full. The proceeds—if
any—go to the General Hospital, an institu-
tion which seems to be a combination of the
poor who are always with us and the Old
Man of the Sea.
One of Brisbane’s popular girls, Vesta
a daughter of the late Colonel Drury,
C.M.G., sailed for London on Wednesday
Her husband-to-be, “Ted” Marks, recently
of . the Queensland Geological Survey, is
waiting for her over there with two eyes
glued on the horizon, and soon after she ar-
rives the hitching process will take place.
JLhe John Hunter Browns, well-known
Queenslanders now in London, will comfort
the bride under their hospitable roof until
the appointed day. On Monday afternoon
Mrs. Harold Saltmarshe and Mrs. Dick
Clarke, two sisters of the bride-to-be-if-all-
goes-well, fed a large covey of her friends at
tbe Cafe Eschenhagen. It will be some time
before either member of the proposed part-
nership returns, for after the wedding Mr.
Marks goes to Dublin to study medicine.
His father, C._ P. Marks, M.L.C., combines
the art of healing with the duties of legisla-
ting. Dr. Alec Marks is a brother, and Dr.
Espie Dods a half-brother. It isn’t often
that one family can boast four medical men.
Architect Robin Dods, now settled in your
village, also belongs.
Evans Watt, son of Mr. and Mrs. H.
Watt, of Woolwich, Sydney, placed the
small gold circlet of matrimony on the finger
of Elsa Sachs, a pretty Brisbane girl, last
Tuesday. The bride was absorbed in crepe
de chine, with the usual etceteras of Limer-
ick lace. Ivy Cory bridesmaided in palest
pink, and, Walter Sachs gave his sister
away in the post friendly manner. The
moon is radiating the Blue Mountains.
At the Women’s Club the other night such
weighty matters as “The Problem of Domes-
tic Labor,” and “The Position of the Stay-
at-Home Girl” were discussed. When the
brain strain became too intense, musical
items were trickled soothingly into the pro-
ceedings. If there’s nothing better, and the
tobacconist and the little chapel round the
corner are closed, music is fairly soothing.
A very savage brbast (not beast, please)
told me this.
Government Entomologist Tryon. who,
with Dr. Harvey Johnston, has been floating
round the world trying to collect evidence
against the prickly pear, with intent to
destroy same, came back to Brisbane on
Tuesday night. Java, India, S. Africa and
London (is there any prickly pear in Lon-
don?), Algiers and Egypt were ransacked.
The U.S.A. also were given a turn, and an
attempt made to get into Mexicp, but the
party was turned back by the sound of un-
holy revelry there. Now experiments are
being made at Dulacca, but the pear doesn’t
seem a bit depressed.
Major Watson, head teacher of the West
End State School, died on Monday. He was
quite well on Saturday. Major Watson (who
was originally a Yorkshireman) has been in
the State service since ’63.
The East Brisbane Croquet Club was re-
opened last Saturday, a goodly sprinkling of
croquet-elect happening along. Mrs. Hether-
ington, this year’s president, handed out the
prizes to the winners of the various events
The Ascot Croquet Club also rolled up its
sleeves last Saturday, and held its annual
meeting, when the popular Mrs. Bulcock
was elected president, or full-back or pace-
maker or something. Mrs. Frank Hall, who
whirls a masterly mallet,, is captain or chief
whirler.
The Catholic Club assembled to a man on
Sunday night to farewell J. F. Donovan,
who is departing for the City of Fog, the
Emerald Isle, and other tourist resorts. Be-
sides a load of good wishes, the departing
one collected a gold watch presented by the
various sporting bodies with which he has
been associated. Father Byrne handed over
the goods with his customary elegance.
The two Holmes sisters, who leave for
Sydney next week, were farewelled at the
Ladies’ Rowing Club shed on Saturday last.
Their luggage will include the usual framed
photograph—this time of the boathouse and
champion fours.
Mrs. Amery and her daughter, of your
obscure and dilapidated yet unduly inflated
city, are visiting Brisbane, and are staying
at Auchenflower with Mrs. Rupert Knight,
a sister of Mrs. Amery. A few days ago tea
and scones were eaten in honor of the
visitors at the Women’s Club.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Kai” : No wonder the loan money evap-
orates, when Government officials make such
fearsome blunders as that of Mackay harbor.
The engineers reckoned that concrete piles
would find bottom at 30ft. The first one
sent down refused point blank to find bottom
-at least it hadn’t found it when it quietly
sank out of sight. Engineer Boult gasped
like a stranded fish and ran to tell the Har-
bor Board (that august body of saddlers,
commission agents, etc.) that the pile was
down but the game was up. He then recom-
mended the use of screw piles or something,
but he did not say how they were to be paid
for. The Board got panic stricken on the
spot over its wasted £20,000, which was the
approximate amount already spent. The
brilliant asses might as well have flung it
into, the ditch that does duty as a harbor.
Chief Engineer Cullen still thinks that Flat
Top can be connected with the mainland;
but then, he has not to find the cash. The
farmers in the Mackay district, who have,
are not inclined to agree with him. In any
case the scheme was rotten from the first, ir
the light of the fact that Newry Bay lies
only 20 miles north of Mackay. A deep,
roomy port, which could shelter the Channel
squadron, it is an ideal harbor. But Queens-
landers are like Cornstalks. They don’t
like ideal harbors. Townsville and Port
Alma are living proofs of this good old Aus-
tralian characteristic.


OF COURSE!
Continental Tyres
Ag'ain Outclass all other makes
for SPEED and RELIABILITY.
Victorian Motor Cycle Clubs 100-mile Road Race.
FIRST, KC. Walker, 7=h.p Indian —THIRD, K George, 7=h p Indian
The Winner s I ime, i hr. 48mm., also established a New Australasian Record for the distance
_ ‘ )
On Continental Tyres.
Automobile Club of Victoria Hill Climb at Wildwood.
First, Open Event, Class A
Second, Open Event, Class A
Second,-Open Event, Class B
Second, Ladies’ Competition
Best Formula Result, Any Class
Fastest Time, Chassis Competition
Benz, fitted with Continentals
Benz, fitted with Continentals
Benz, fitted with Continentals
Benz, fitted with Continentals
Benz, fitted with Continentals
Benz, fitted with Continentals
_ r
Also, Fastest and Second Fastest Time in the Whole Competition,
Benz, fitted with Continentals.
Automobile Club of Australasia’s Sydney Reliability Contest
*. . . ’. >■' : r •• •, > - *- 5 ' *• • ■ \ ■
held Friday and Saturday last.
First
Second
Third
••• Crossley, fitted with Continental Tyres
Benz, fitted with Continental Tyres
••• Benz, fitted with Continental Tyres
Also, both Hill-Climbs Won Outright on Continental Tyres.
You have only to turn up the Record of Successes established on Continental Tyres to
prove the undoubted Superiority of the Wonderful 1914 Model.
1 '7- ?*"■' . . ’ Cy . . -
Do not accept the “just as good tyre, because Continental Tyres Stand Absolutely Alone.


Poorness
of ——
the blood
destroys health and causes
anaemia, scrofula, wasting
and debility. It is impossible
to enjoy work, pleasure or
life when nerves, tissues and
muscles are starving for
want of extra nourishment.
If you would be well again,
enrich the blood, feed the
nerves, build up the wasted
tissues not to-morrow or
next week, but to-day
by taking genuine
TRADE
1874
'v*
MARK
SCOTT'S
Emulsion
with the fishman or i the
package the only food
tonic with a 40 years* repu-
tation for quality and results.
LACTOBACILLIN E.
The bacillary treatment of bacterial and fermenta-
tive affectations of the alimentary canal.
Lactobaeilline pits the vigorous lactic ferment
against the less resistant organisms of decomposition,
with the result that the latter are immediately
destroyed.
Lactobaeilline is prepared under the scientific
supervision and control of
PROFESSOR METCHNIKOFF.
It is prepared in tablets to be eaten with meals,
and by checking intestinal putrefaction exerts a re-
markable influence towards the attainment of perfect
health. It is of special value in all affections of the
digestive tract, auto-intoxication, colites, intestinal
catarrh, chronic dyspepsia, etc.
Every cylinder of tablets bears the words
“Lactobaeilline preparee par la Societe le Fer-
ment Seul Fournisseur du Professor Metchnikoff.”
Without which, none are genuine.
Lactobaeilline is sold in boxes containing eight
cylinders of Tablets—price, ss. 6d.—and pan' be
ordered through any chemist, or obtained direct from
the Depot Societe le Ferment, Australasia Chambers,
406-14 Queen Street, Brisbane ; or branches : Vickery’s
Chambers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Safe Deposit
Buildings, Queen Street, Melbourne; Ellershaw’s
Buildings, Cliff Street, Fremantle; Smeeton’s Build-
ings, Queen Street, Auckland; from where all inform-
ation can be obtained.*
“ESSENCE
MYSTERIEUSE
mq
m.
10,
M
VN
personal perfume of
unusual charm and
distinction. MM*.
‘ Essence Mysterieuse ’ Morny
presents a fragrance of a supreme
delicacy and of a subtlety so
intricate as to add a new and
perplexing charm to the •• eternal
feminine."
Perfume 18/6, Soap 7/6, tablet
Face Powder (5 tints) 7/6, Bath
Salts 5/6 and 13/6, Dusting
I Powder 7/6, Sachet 1/- and 3/6.!
THE MORNY FINE BATH AND PERFUME’
PRODUCTS are retailed in Sydney by—
WASHINGTON H. SOUL, 160 Pi'tt Street
PATTINSON & CO., 427 George Street.
FARMER & CO., 221-9 Pitt Street.
CIVIL SERVICE CO-OPERATIVE STORES OF
NEW SOUTH WALES LTD., 152-4 Pitt St.
H. A. .ROSE & CO., Chemists, 149 King Street.
Wholesale Agents only: DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES
LIMITED, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
OBTAINABLE IN MELBOURNE AT ALL
HIGH-CLASS DEPARTMENT STORES.
THE Australian Magazine—THE 1,0 NV,
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, (d
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
- or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New
Zealand. W'MT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; The Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black,M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. E. Winchombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
Knox, Esq., ICC. ; Sir Alex. MacCormick, M.D. General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teece, F.1.A.,
F.F.A., F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
lif
m*
■
A HOME FOR
MELBOURNE GUESTS.
1
Corner Flinders Street
and Spencer Street.
MELBOURNE.
Sir Charles Hotham Hotel
V)
THEY are called “Bostock Gold Medal Shoes”
in most stores. The great reputation they
enjoy to-day throughout Australasia has
been won by sincerity of manufacture. Honest
through and through, they prove in wear to be as
good as they look. Under their beautiful finish
are always found the choicest of materials; and,
whether on the foot or 1 in the hand, the skilful
work, conspicuous in every pair, never fails to
command one’s admiration.
Bostoeks are the cream of imported shoes.
Special shipments have recently arrived at the
leading stores, and ladies should call before the
choicest styles are sold.
803
ghf
Style 604
Hunyadi Janos
Indiscretions of diet are the most frequent cause of liver complaints.
Other contributing factors are excess of alcohol and lack of exercise.
To safely and speedily overcome such a condition there is no better
remedy than the taking of a wine-glassful of Hunyadi Janos Natural
Aperient Water before breakfast every day for a week or fortnight,
which has the happy effect of relieving in an almost instantaneous
manner any congestion of the liver.
Hunyadi Janos is obtainable at all chemists.
The Famous NATURAL Aperient Water
HAVE REGARD TO YOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee Company
of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc.
AMPLE SECURITY ASSURED. TRUST ACCOUNTS ALWAYS OPEN TO INSPECTION.
ESTATES AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OF TRUSTEE WORK UNDERTAKEN. FULL DETAILS ON APPLICATION.
17 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [1
BUSY.
START SPEEDING UP.
Blunt tools soon make a man blunt. Be
sharp—what you want is Danks’ Ball-
bearing Treadle Grindstone. No handle to
turn—by using your feet both hands can be
devoted to the delicate work of sharpening.
As easy as riding a bike down hill —nothing
to get out of order —one of the greatest time
and labor savers for the man who uses
cutting tools. Reliable and good.
Price 37/6.
John Danks & Son
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
THE SPECIAL HOUSE FOR TOOLS.
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Liverpool Street),
391 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
%
"JJ
u
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
A’o notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MSS. will be returned
'• unless stamps accompany.
Mel: Please don’t write about the United
States as “America.” It is no more America than
Brazil is. And don’t write about India, which lies
north-west of Australia, as “the East.” And don’t
talk of far-off north-western places like Greece and
Turkey as “the Near East.” And don’t describe
England as “Home,” for this is our home. Also, try
to get out of the habit of describing France, Ger-
many, etc., as “the Continent.” They may be the
European continent, but this little bit of ground is
our continent. .. .H. Bale: About the most tiresome
obituary item is that to the effect that “the deceased
leaves a widow behind him.” Did any deceased ever
shovp his own widow in front of him?....One Who
Knows: You don’t make the case against him clear.
It reads like a personal grievance. No room for per-
sonal grievances in these days of national calamities.
A Female of the Speeies: Please leave B. J.
Hansen and his Vancouver offices alone. He burst
into tears, in a literary manner of speaking, over
your last assault on his premises. If you could only
be made to understand the unpleasantness of having
a Vancouverite sobbing on one’s shoulder by post you
would appreciate our feelings in this matter... .Will
Jarratt: “March” fills us with distrust. The earth
isn’t “motherwise, impatient of a birth” in Australia
in March, though it may be said to be in that inter-
esting condition in England. Now, if you had said
September-—but then the lines wouldn’t have scanned.
....F. It. Golinsky: The Churches get nothing from
the Government in Australia. .. .A.H.: Your master
rhymer’s certificate is hereby cancelled.... Henry K.:
We can’t publish same—in fact, we would scorn
to publish same. .. .Distinguished Author of “Fly-
ing”,: Try drowning. .. .M.K.T.: If we published
poems like yours in this “valuable paper,” it would
no longer, be so. .. .G.W.T.:—
You (singing) : When oftimes at eve I am turning
away.
All weary at heart from the cares of the day—
TJs: You’d better go now! You’ll be hurt if you
stay!
. ...Jas. M. B. (Q.) : For Heaven’s sake, don’t para-
phrase the daily paper in bad verse ! If you haven’t
any original remarks about you, stand aside and
allow the procession to pass along A.R.M.: A
little of “Hope”—not much, but enough to go on
with:—
“There comes a time,” hear Brutus call,
“Should man strike with the tide”
Strike while the water’s hot, so to speak
G.T.M.R. (S.A.): Not drivel, but still not acceptable.
...4 Jonathan N.: No cow, thanks. .. .Rupert A.L.:
Not- worth while. .. .Breaker’s Mate. No use to us.
If it is of any use to any other paper, we will be
vastly astonished. .. .A.E.F.: Too fragmentary, and
there is no originality about it....R.M.V. (Perth):
We didn’t ask you what was music. We didn’t even
ask you what was tripe. . . .A.E.C.: A weary item. .
Jean L.: We would rather give you money than
space, but we will give you neither O.K.S.: No!
Some pens are mightier than the sword, but your
sort of pen isn’t the equal of a paper-knife....
Walter M.: The midnight horror isn’t a subject for
light verse. It should be pursued with disinfectant
and fire and the Board of Health K.: Well, the
only thing wrong with it is that it is stodgy. And
stodginess blots out a multitude of virtues. . . .
Stale M.: “Fuzz” won’t go E.W.C.: Unsuitable.
....Nero: Fiddle away—your manuscript is burn-
ing! .Harold. There are some people we would
rather die than meet. There are some manuscripts we
would rather perish than read to the bitter end.
Were you born as dull as you are, or has it gradually
got you down like ingrowing old age?. . . .F.G.T.Y.-:
There isn’t much wrong with it. But it is one of
those things that don’t require to have very much
wrong with them.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORI5ESPONDENTS.
W.E.G. (M.L.) : (1) They are of no use to us. (2)
We will give you nothing for them—not even male-
dictions. (3) They are not suitable for reproduc-
tion. They are only suitable for burning. .. .Howa:
A very small, flat and wooden sketch of somebody or
other who is practically unknown. It may be' like
him, but we hope not; if it is, his nose is badly
constructed.... Ben S.: Star item doesn’t shine....
G. Cook: A faint, scratchy nightmare. . . .Dick F. T.:
Criticism withheld. May dingoes gnaw your bones.
“H. Singemoine”:—
Cabled foolishness in connection with the twopenny
row in the smaller half of Ulster:—
“The following true story is going the rounds. A
noted Field-Marshal sent for a certain General at
theiWar Office, and demanded that he should draw
up a plan of campaign against Ulster, whereupon the
General replied, ‘l’m damned if I do!’ The Field-
Marshal, without a word, turned on his heel, and,
going to Col. J. E. B. Seely, then Secretary of State
for War, told the latter that ‘the game was up.’ ”
There are two sorts of papers which specialise in
futilities like the above. In The Wails of Derry
Chronicle the Noted Person is mostly a sturdy Prodis-
tant. He is addressed by a Certain Priest. Con-
troversially speaking, the anonymous cleric is imme-
diately,-trailed, in. the mud —the which goes to show
that the R.C. religion is only fit for slaves and imbe-
ciles, and should be exterminated.
When London Society trots out the blue-mouldy
old device the Noted Ope is usually described as “a
R-y-lty.” j The latter tells a Certain Duke that if a
Certain (unnhmed) Politician (of the Party to which
the paper, is hostile) doesn’t presently abandon his
disloyalm'ntics he (the R-y-lty) will take “certain
steps.” No one can make more than a vague guess
as to the identity of any of the persons indicated in
such yarns, but it impresses the remoter suburbs, and
that is the whole ambition of sheets like London
SocibW. /
The anecdote on the above lines which some ass
at. the- bther end of the cable has thought fit to cable
to Australia bears its refutation on the face of it.
The type of man who rises to be a General has at
least some rudimentary ideas of discipline. It is his
way to treat his superiors as he expects his own in-
feriors to treat him. It may be that once in a life-
time he is driven, on principle, to disobey an order
and to do it flatly. But in such an event he would not
take pride in his mutiny. He would not comport
himself towards the inoffensive official who was but
obeying his superiors when he gave the order, after
the fashion of a rowdy inebriate who had been asked
either to leave the bar or be thrown out. There
are ways and ways of refusing to obey a military
order ; and when the person who gives it is a Field-
Marshal- and the one .who receives it is a General,
there is nothing surer (outside the crudest sort of
bellowdrama) than that the ordinary courtesies of
life will be observed on both sides.
But the cream of the incredibility lies in the
alleged Field-Marshal’s attitude. This man—one
of the princes of his profession, a soldier who has
fought his way to the top presumably by the exercise
of courage, resource and resolution—meets with one
lonely rebuff. It is enough. He eaves in utterly.
He does not reason with his insolent subordinate.
He does not consider the question of dealing ruthlessly
with him by way of discouraging the others. It
does not occur to him to send for another General.
The only course of action that he can conceive is to
hurry distractedly to the War Secretary, and announce
—-doubtless after a burst of sobs —that “the game is
up.” If Britain really possessed Field-Marshals of
that miserable description the national game would
indeed be up. However it doesn’t. No civilised
white nation is hampered with such freaks; except
in the lower walks of the drama.


Amott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
£loooa£looo
Work of Art. Work of Art.
First Great Prize, Value £5OO
or Twelve Months’ Trip Round the World and
£lOO in Cash for ONE PERSON,
or Eight Months for Two.
Note. —The Committee, having paid full
value for the work of art, is prepared to find
a purchaser for same at the advertised
amount if the winner so desires, also for the
Second and Third Prizes.
Second, Value £lOO.
Third, Value £5O.
And 97 other Prizes, totalling £lOOO.
Eight Hours
Great Art Union
58th Year —Oldest and Most Popular—
58th Year.
Proceeds in Aid of the Hospitals and
Public Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners free of
all charges. A list of winning numbers will
be posted to any person on sending an ad-
dressed envelope to the representative, with
stamp unaffixed.
Buy from your Local Agent on or before
2nd May, or send Postal Note, P. 0.0., or
stamps with Exchange added, direct to the
representative, 165 Flinders-lane, Melbourne,
at once for tickets, and secure a chance in
this great Art Union, 22 for £l, 11 for 10s.,
or Is. each.
All direct applications must reach Melbourne
before the date'of drawing, 19th May, 19Up
Lest You Forget, Buy To-day
E
m
«
In the
morning
it is such an easy matter to get
your teeth ready to be seen,
when you use
Calvertst
."Tooth Powder'
and of course, the same
thorough antiseptic cleansing
is just as necessary
again at night.
Soli by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by j
,F C. CALVER T<V CO., i
MANCHES / ER, A
En t . M
gfh
fgh
DIRECT FROM
SWITZERLAND.
Waists from 2/9
Babies’ Dresses ~ 4/9
Girls’ Dresses „ 8/6
Ladies’ Dresses „ 9/6
Delivered free of postage. All
our embroideries are unmade,
but we deliver paper patterns
for all our styles to order.
Write to-day for complete
catalogue 209 of our famous
Swiss Embroideries, on ba-
tiste, voile, erfipe, linen, and
all the latest silk materials,
with finest Paris fashion
plates, sent free on request.
Stamp letters 2Jd.; cards Id.
[3
fhg
Lucerne
'Switzerland ;
IF it were not for light, downy
beards many a razor would have
no market.
The tough beard or the tender skin
is the real shaving test —and the
Gillette is the one razor that meets that test
every day with millions of satisfied users.
Three minutes is all the time you need for a velvet-smooth
Gillette shave. No strops to fuss with —no waste of time —no
bother. No pulling or scraping or sore, touchy face. > t
Gillette Standard Sets, One Guinea. Sold everywhere. Write for
illustrated and descriptive Booklet. Please mention this paper.
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
SAFETY RAZOR LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Gillette
MO STROPPING NO HONING
Safety
Razor
Picture Showmen!
WHY NOT HAVE THE BEST?
Ui
KELVIN
GENERATING SET
The Silent 4 *
Empire Bioscope
and the
Kelvin Electric
Generating Sets
are. unbeatable.
It is our business —and pleasure—-to intro-
duce these machines to you.
The Empire is built of Steel —a Special
Steel—that will outlast any other Bio-
scope, no matter how continuously it is
used.
They are Fireproof, and Absolutely Reliable.
THE KELVIN SETS—Engine and Dynamo direct coupled—stand alone in the Picture World.
We have them of different capacities, to suit all requirements. They are on the one base fitted with
wheels. The Engine is Slow Speed, and the greatest quality it possesses is efficiency. Send for our
Booklet on these Machines.
We have a few Second-hand Outfits on Sale. Are you Interested?
JERDANS LTD.
393 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Dinneford's
Magnesia
DINNEFORD’S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE*
In consequence
of numerous, imi-
tations purchasers
must see tire name
«S>n*NEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
OH THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size- Price, 21s.
fghfgh
IF You Wear
Abbey Shoes once, you will wear
them for all time. This is because
of the satisfaction they give.
The illustration depicts a Special
Golf Shoe in Choice Tan Willow
Calf,
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for our Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
For the Country Horseman
The saddle here illustrated is expressly designed
for country use, for stock riding, etc., and is built
of the best materials throughout. If any of our
friends are requiring such a saddle they will find
this a genuine bargain.
It has a hogskin seat, a plated bar-tree, extra
long flaps, with points to buckle below. An econoifli-
cal feature is the skirt, which extends all round
and thus adds years of wear to the saddle by pro-
tecting its interior from the weather. It has a
deep, “sweepy” seat, 4 in. kneepads, nickel-plated
irpn stirrups, and double buckle leather girth. The
price complete is £3/15/- Mention of TiJB
lltil,l,etin when ordering will ensure your having a
leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle will
be forwarded freight paid. It is to be obtained
from J. P>. Tally, 3SS Sus-c-x Street, Sydney.
•ft
COOKE’S
PATENT
REVERSIBLE
LEVEL
Specially designed with two objects in view:
first, to r afford an easy, efficient, and at all
times available means of adjusting the line of
oollimation of the telescope to perfect perpen-
dicularity to the vertical axis of the instrument;
and, secondly, to obtain a form of construction
in which elegance and great compactness are
attained and strength and rigidity secured.
Pamphlet describing, construction, and on the
adjustment of above on application.
A. P. GREENFIELD & CO. LTD,
189 Ceorge Street, Brisbane,
Sole Australian Agents.


Scientific Instruments
For Every Trade, Industry and Profession.
Hydrometers, for testing every liquid.
fgh
Do you use Glass Instruments in your
calling? We manufacture and repair
them, and guarantee their perfect
accuracy.
If you wish special Instruments made
for any purpose, tell us your needs
and we will quote you for the neces-
sary design.
Our Booklet, illustrating Scientific
Glassware of every kind, is free. Shall
we send you a copy? It costs you
nothing, and will open your eyes to
the extent of our activities.
Dairy Factory Glassware and Testing
Apparatus a Specialty.
WILSON, NAFIS 8 CO. LTD.,
Wharf Street, BRISBANE, Q'LAND.
Amu serpents. ;<
DICK ARDS’ TIVOLI TUIiATKE, SYDNEY.
Governing Director; JfHJGIT i). McINTOSIt.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
THE MUSICAL ELLIOTT SAVONAS, in their “Palace
of Orpheus.”
ED. E. FORD, the Australian Sundowner.
THE SIX CAMERONS, in “At the Carnival.”
MDLLE. MARGUERITE & FRANK GILL, in the
Latest Continental Dance Creations.
Tim SIIENTONS. BIOSCOPE.
And a Great Company of Established Favorites.
PRICES: 6/-, 4/-, 3/- and 1/-.
T IVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSII.
ADA REEVE, the Queen of Vaudeville.
TUCKER, the Singing Violinist.
G ILD AV & FOX, Hebrew Delineators.
TIIE IWO BOBS,” a Rag or two, a Song or two,
a Laugh ob two, by a Bob or two.
a.r HARR. Ventriloquist.
SALANGER & HAMILTON, American and Conti-
pental Dancers.
Plan nt Allan’s. , MT'PRICES—4s„ Os., 25., Is.
ARTISTS APPEARING AT
T 1 YOLI TJIEA T R E, ADELAIDE
/.A;THIS WEEK.
DOLORE S YALLECTTAS Group of Indian Leopards.
GOLDEN ATIILONES, in Postures, Plastiques.
THE CREOS, Continental Acrobats.
ROYAL QUARTETTE. JACK SHIELDS.
VIVATE & VIVANTI. TWO PIIIDLINERS.
TIVOLI T H E A T R E, I* E It T H
1 HARRY RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES. "
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSII.
JOSEPHINE DAVIS.
TALLEUR & READE.
TALLEUR ANDREWS, the Matinee Idol.
BARTON & ASHLEY, in “Monev Talks.”
ROSE & ELLIS.
GRAUS BROTHERS. ROMANO BROS.
BIOSCOPE.
IBICES: 3/-, 2/- and i/-. NO EXTRA FEES.
H ER n MAJESTY’S, SYDNEL
Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., have much pleasure in
rmivm.i! 1 ? 1 ' STUPENDOUS PANTOMIME
™Uve s tory A of WhlCh y “ r * baSed Upon the
THE FORTY THIEVES.
Hl it ten by Frank Dix. Music by Andrew MacCunn.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
A I>E LI*II J THEATRE. SYDNEY
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY. LTD. •
EVERY EVENING.
WILLOUGHBY’S AMERICAN MUSICAL
COMEDY GO. in another brilliant musical comedy
THE MAYO It OE TOKYO.
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-, Pl an at Nicholson’s.
P A. 1 ’ A C K T ll Jfi AT « K. SYDN K Y.
w Direction ALLEN DOONE.
EVERY EVENING.
ALLEN DOONE
and his popular Irish company in Dion Boueicault’s
famous play,
THE COLLEEN BAW N.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales, White Rose.
|\| ATIONAL AMPHITHEATRE, SYDNEY
Governing Director: BEN J. FULLER.
FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE CIRCUIT.
G EVERY NIGHT, AT 8.
. THF CiOYTES. LYONS- & CULLUM.
ROYAL BANZAI FAMILY, Japanese Entertainers
MURIEL ANDREW’S & RUBE DENT
FRED SWIFT. HAYES & R. IVES
THE GREAT WESTIN. GIO ANGELO
THE BRIGHT SISTERS
PRICES as usual. Plan at Theatre.
T II E little thea t r e
■ CASTLEREAGII STREET, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
MATINEE, THURSDAY’, 2 p.m.
MR. HUGH BUCKLER and MISS VIOLET PAGET
Present that Diverting Comedv,
by Sir ARTHUR W. PINERO,
the gay lord quex.
Box Plan at Paling’s, Day Sale at White Rose,
T” ME r IMPERIAL SALON DE LUXF
1 FOOT OF WILLIAM STREET “ ’ I
DANCING 'EVERY- Evßffi/n 1 ™ 1
ADMISSION, TWO SHILLINGS.
SPECTATORS’ ADMISSION, ONE SHILLING
EVERY SATURDAY AFTERNOON i
SPECIAL SESSION, 2.30 to 5 pm
ADMISSION, TWO SHILLINGS.
TANGO TEAS,
EVERY’ TUESDAY AND FRIDAY AFTERNOON. !
4 p.m, to 6 p.m. Admission, THREE SHILLINGS
SPECIAL PRACTICE SESSIONS.-YVhen weTeach ;
Dancing. Mode,rate ' Tuition Fees, 2/6 per lesson.
Monday, YYednesdav and Thursday Afternoons Onlv
Admission One Shilling. Time 4 to 6 p.m. Open
Twice Daily. Every Afternoon and Every Evening
’Pnope, 682 Wm. St.
Y’ou haven’t seen Sydney until vou’Ve visited
"THE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES
1 In GEORGftJjTREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRicfOOLONIAL. EMPRESS.
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 Dm
PRICES: 3d. to 1/- w •
GREATER J. D. YVILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
YV. Barrington Miller, GeneraUManager.
7* H E OLYM P I A , SYDNEY,
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS- BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF AFT..”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S Y’ICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
Sd. to 2s. Plans at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
Amusements.
g I’ENCIS It’S LYCEUM, SYBNEI.
THE 'WORLDS BEST PICTURES.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE—WEDNESDAY. AT 2.30.
A GREAT PROGRAMME, consisting of TOPICAL,
DRAMATIC, SCENIC and COMEDY SUBJECTS.
Prices: 1/6, 1/- & 6d. Plan at Paling’s & White Rose.
yyiBTH BROTHERS’ CIRCUS, LIMITED.
THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
CONCLUDING ON SATURDAY.
DON’T MISS IT.
Country Tour: WOLLONGONG, MAY 11; NOWRA,
12 ; IvIAMA, 13; BULLI, 14 ; CAMPBELLTOWN,
15; GOULBURN. 16.
“pHE EVENT OF 1914.
Visit of
MISS ELLEN TERRY.
SHAKESPEARIAN DISCOURSES WITH
ILLUSTRATIVE ACTING.
Supported, by other Distinguished Artists.
MELBOURNE, MAY 7, 9 and 11-
TOWN HALL.
SYDNEY, MAY 14, IG, 18-
TOWN HALL.
BRISBANE, MAY 21, 23-
EXHIBITION.
NEW ZEALAND TO FOLLOW.
THE LONDON ENTERTAINMENTS’
SYNDICATE.
Direction: JOSEPH BLASCHECIv.
M. J. BLOOMFIELD,
Manager.
N° w tour ing Australia.
PAUL DUFAULT
PAUL DUFAULT
PAUL DUFAULT
The World’s Greatest Concert Tenor,
’ Assisted by:
PAULINE BINDLEY .. Soprano
ERNEST TOY .. Violinist
HAROLD WHITTLE Pianist
Address all business communications to
FREDERIC SHIPMAN, Manager,
Hotel Australia; Sydney,
PDW A R D BRANSCOM BE ’ |
SIX COMPANIES OF
, dandies
Appear Nightly at
CO RONATION THEATRE, BONDI JUNCTION.
CREMORNE GARDENS, BRISBANE
PLA NA DE, ST. HILDA.
TEMPERANCE HALL, HOBART
OLYMPIA, PERTH.
NEW ZEALAND ON TOUR.
T KING’S TIIEATRE, MELBOURNE
Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 9.
Reappearance of William Anderson’s Famous Dramati
Organisation in
THE WORST WOMAN IN LONDON
POPULAR PRICES.
PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
Amusements.
J KB MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
First Production in Melbourne of the Popular
REVUE,
COME OVER HERE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 65., 45.. 2s. and Is.
THE AT BE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 9.
Revival for Six Nights of the Popular Comic Opera,
DOltO T II Y.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
1 Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
Managing Director: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 9.
First Production in Australia of the charming
American Play,
THE II OSAII Y.
Prices: 5/-, 3/- and 1/-, Plan at Pianola.
OL Y M I* I A. O L Y M P I A.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICT U EES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
&
T A I
T
N .
announce the
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND TOUR OF
HARRY LAUDER.
Melbourne, Princess’s Theatre, Terminating MAY 8.
Adelaide, commencing MAY 16.
Sydney, commencing MAY 30.
Brisbane, commencing JULY 6.
Auckland, commencing JULY 20.
Wellington, commencing JULY 27.
Christchurch, commencing AUGUST 3.
Dunedin, commencing AUGUST 19.
Harry Lauder in Melbourne has achieved the most
remarkable triumph' in the amusement history of
Australia. For four weeks the Princess’s Theatre has
been crowded to its uterost capacity.
|y| ELBOUIINE fiLACIABI U M.
ICE-SKATING
RE-OPENS
THURSDAY, MAY IT.
%A# E S T’S PALACE. MELBOURNE.
THE BEST WEST’S PICTURES THE best
OF ALL LIMITED. OF ALL
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays.
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in tiif. World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy ,of Note always to be seen
at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
DIRCH & CARROLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE ’MfN>GERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in . all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers. -
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in aIP the Leading'*'Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
The “EXCELLO” is Popular
in Price, £5/12/6.
The tone of this instru-
ment is far in advance
of any previously to he
obtained at this figure.
The instrument is sub-
constructed.
In appearance, volume
and purity of reproduc-
tion, and in finish, it
worthily upholds the re-
putation of
ĥfg
"His Master’s Voice” Gramophones.
The ‘Excello” is a hornless model, easily portable and very compact.
The Cabinet is of varnished, quartered Oak, with Nickel-plated Fittings.
ny this excellent entertainer now, and you’ll have plenty of good fqn .and good
music during the long winter nights.
Instrument Catalogues, Record Lists and name of nearest accredited dealer on
request. ,
Sole Concessionaires for
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
You know it by this
is Master's Voice
Edison
Wax Standard
Records—l/- each
We have special Catalogues,
which give complete lists of
these two-minute records —there
are thousands of them —and
owners of Edison Phonographs,
who have not yet adapted their
machines to play the four-minute
records, are specially invited to
obtain a copy from their Edison
dealer, or direct from us.
The reduced price of these Wax
Standard (two-minute) Records
—l/- each—still holds good.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
Dept. B„ 364-372 Kent Street, SYDNEY,
Harry Lauder
Melodies
sound best on
ii
CRACKAJACK
Mouth Organs
They ARE the Top Notchers.
They ARE made of the Best
Material Obtainable.
They ARE the Best.
Made in Six Styles.
PROFESSIONAL 3/- DOUBLE 1/-
SENIOR 2/- BOSS CRACKER ~ -
JUNIOR 1/6 CADET -/6
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
SEND FOR FREE BOOKLET, No. 7.
fgh
Silver=Toned
MELBA
Accordeons
Are unsurpassed
for their beau-
tiful quality of
tone, obtained by
the use of a
superior quality
of metal in the
reeds.
For Picnics,
Dances,
Accompaniments
PRICES.
7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 17/6 to 42/-
WRITE FOR OUR NEW CATALOG.
SOLE WHOLESALE AGENTS:
“j&a/Csr
Melbourne, Bendigo, Adelaide, Geelong.
LR'YJ
Solomon
Solution
The greatest remedy on earth for
strains and sprains—and many
other horse troubles.
Large Jars 5/- obtainable from Chemists. Stores,
and Saddlers everywhere, rost Free for 5/6
from
SOLOMON COX & SON,
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
COLORED POST-CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six. posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street. Sydney.


PURIFY YOUR
COMPLEXION
41
With
CUTICURA
SOAP
And Cuticura Ointment. Their
use tends to prevent pore clog-
ging, pimples, blackheads, red-
ness, roughness and other un-
wholesome conditions of the skin.
Cuticura Soap anti Ointment are sold throughout
the world. A liberal sample of each, with 32-page
booklet on the care and treatment of the skin and
scalp, sent post-free. Address It. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Drives Sallowness
from the Skin
Ladies, imperfect complexion is caused by
a sluggish liver. A few days’ treatment with
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS will do
more to clean up the skin
than all the beauty
creams in creation.
Cures constipation,
unclogs the liver,
ends indigestion,
biliousness and
dizziness.
Purely vege-/
table, never
fail.
Carters
ITTLE*
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The GENUINE must bear signature
f.
*®r i
i.n V -
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
age, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. 13.
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. B. ALLEN S iu.s.a.)
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suitable
for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
Philippine cigarettes, very
BEST. Cigarettes made in Islands,
either white or brown paper.
Buen Fumar, 12/6 per 1000 cigarettes.
Domingo Fumar, 17/- per 1000 cigarettes.
Selecto Fumar, 30/- per 1000 cigarettes.
6 packages, all different brands, the very
best, as trial, 4/2.
These cigarettes are packed 25 in package,
post paid. Satisfaction or money back.
Pattingell & Co., Lucena, Tayabas, P.I.
PVGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
1914.
“Mushet” & “Double Mushet”
HIGH SPEED STEELS
ghfh
and
“MUSHET”
HIGH SPEED
Twist DRILLS
MAKERS—
SAMUEL OSBORN & Co.
LIMITED,
CLYDE STEEL WORKS,
SHEFFIELD.
(Samuel Osborn & Co. Ltd. have again secured
the contract for the supnly of High Speed Steels to
the British Admiralty.)
SOLE AGENTS—
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO. LTD.
fgfgh
535 Kent St., Sydney, and 486 Collins St., Melbourne.
Telephone Nos., 1356 and 2663.
Steel Department—Tel. City 218.
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Fequeet.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255aGeorge St,
~ Sydney
ghf
\QN a L e 4
3
r t
J / ■'
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund, £465,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,464.
Director's- JOHN GRICE, Esq., EDWARD TRENCIIARD, Esq., H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.,
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Chief Manager: E. 11. WREFORD.
HEAD OFFICE, MELBOURNE. SYDNEY OFFICE, 60 PITT STREET.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia. Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgate, E.C.
v;
Texend
■braces
For Men who know
Quality, Comfort , Style
At first class shops ,
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
80LB BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Pricu In
England—
l/ii. 2/9 & 4/6. Made in England.
ghf
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
Tho Best Medicine for
OOUQHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
rjho cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTIOH.
Aoto like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
The Inky Way.
“Chink”: I note that as a passing spasm in the
March instalment of his “Confessions” in The Lone
Hand, “Hop” remarks, and gently deplores, the lack
of reciprocity among Australian papers generally.
It wasn’t always so. Back in the ’so's, ’6o’s and
’7o’s there was neither a plenitude of stereo news
or weighty auctioneer advts., and the early Vic.
country sheets exchanged in most harmonious fashion.
I call to mind particularly the Ballarat Star, Gee-
long Advertiser, Ovens and River Murray Adver-
tiser, and Maryborough Advertiser. Some issues of
these journals I’ve seen with a score of pithy pars
and short articles lifted from each other and always
with copious acknowledgment. And it wasn’t be-
cause there weren’t capable men on the respective
staffs in those days. There were; witness James
Smith, on the Maryborough paper. But James was a
busy man, being as, I fancy, “Melb” remarked in this
column some time ago, up to his neck with theological
articles, extraordinary spiritualism, biology, arboreal
mining, marine astronomy, and researches into the
ancient lore of the Moabites, Jacobites, Mosquito-
bites and Dogbites. Also, he did some amateur
Pythagorism.
“Chink”: The Stawell (Vic.) News struck trouble
recently, and gave its readers a dark-blue hint that
it knew the exact nature of the trouble. Witness
this: —
“No ‘Copy.’—Owing to our reporter getting ‘lost’
last night, and failing to appear before we went to
press this morning, we regret that several items of
interest were not available for publication. The
opening of the skating season at the Skating Rink
in Wimmera-street, a meeting of the Ladies Rifle
Club, and several other matters have suffered neglect.
They say ! Henceforth the editorial department
and reportorial work will be under the supervision
of the proprietor.”
“Charivari”: The best notice of Tenniel is by
Furniss. He shows that Tenniel had not the least
invention. All his Punch cartoons were planned b.v
other men —for instance, “Dropping the Pilot,” b.v
a Beckett. This pleased both the Emperor and Bis-
marck, but we can well imagine it pleased Bismarck
most. A friend bought the original drawing and
gave it to Bismarck. However, it is feeble in the
artistry, for Tenniel was then on the wane. See him
to more advantage in “Beware.” This remarkable
prophecy appeared when the Franco-German war
broke out. Napoleon 111. and the Prince Imperial
were riding on, with ghostly legions, to destruction.
Not so much in the drawing, as in the overpowering
idea. Tenniel’s most pungent cartoon was suppressed,
and was not made public till long after its date.
This referred to Disraeli’s purchase of the Suez Canal
shares with the money of the Rothschilds, Jews all
round ! Consequently Tenniel depicted the Israelites,
in modern garb, returning over the Red Sea. The
proprietary thought it too hot, and Tenniel hastily
scraped up something else. That unsurpassable en-
graver, Swain, co-operated with Tenniel. The most
celebrated suppressed engraving, lately published, is
one by Thackeray for Vanity Fair, depicting the
surprise of Steyne and Becky by Rawdon. The
Steyne was too much of a likeness of the Marquis of
Oueensberr'-. “Old 0 ” Furniss says the famous
weekly meetings of the Punch staff only arose be-
cause Tenniel had no invention.
THE PUBLIC EDUCATOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JOURNALIST.—Required by a leading metropoli-
tan daily, a young Gentleman, 17 to 20 years of
age, as Journalist’s Cadet. Good education essential.
Commencing salary, 30s. per week. Good prospects
for energetic, ambitious youth. Applications, stating
full particulars, to CADET, Herald Office.
—lnspiring advt.
My gentle youth, draw near, I pray,
And let me closely scan
Your classic brow —of course, you say,
You are a gentleman?
Just so!
For, understand, on common lads we place our
sternest ban!
You seek a billet on our Staff—«•
An honor, my young friend!
The Melney ‘ Morning Heragraph,
Its countenance will lend
To none
But educated gentlemen, who with its “tone” will
blend !
You understand me? Yes; quite so!
Your age is—Seventeen !
What special subjects do you know?
To what schools have you been?
I—see !
That quite explains your natty dress and gentlemanly
mien !
No history ? Dear, dear—that’s bad !
Still, do not be downcast —
We’re strong on history, my lad —
A thing we’re making, fast!
Oh, yes t
We like our men to have a thorough knowledge of
the Past!
You’re weak on grammar, are you ? Well,
That matters little here!
As long as you know how to spell,
You have no cause to fear —
You see,
A journalist who could not spell would be considered
queer.
You’ve never heard of syntax—eh?
Your composition’s poor
Oh, those are faults to which we pay
But little heed—we score
To-day
By stating publicly we need those little things no
more!
Now, general knowledge. Let me see:
I’ll question you on that !
Who first invented & s. d. ?
Quite right. Jehoshaphat!
And who
Was Galileo ? Yes; quite right—he proved the
world is flat!
And who discovered this fair land,
And wrote a chatty book?
No —no ! You don’t quite understand !
Not Tasman—Captain Cook !. .. .
But, still,
Your general knowledge is not bad, and, more, I like
your look !
Upon the whole, I think you’ll do!
At any rate we’ll try;
We’ll make a journalist of you
Ere many years go by!
Your pay,
Considering your tender years, will be distinctly
high!
The fact that you have much to learn,
I discount—so to speak ;
All journalists must start to joum.—
And if you’ve lots of cheek,
You’ll d 0... .
Your salary, to start with, will be one-pound-ten a
week!
Now, go—and set the world on Are on one-pound-ten
a week!
X. s.w.
PETRONIUS EARBITER.


SPORTING RIFLES
of Reliability and Accuracy.
RADE MAHK
fI9Q2
ODE.L
-r--
" WINCHESTER,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
22 Cal. Rim Fire, peep or V sights, scroll
trigger guard, rubber heel plate,
weight 2flb.
The above Rifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear sight,
Postage—l/6 N.S.W., 2/8 Inter-State.
18s . 6d.
21/ -
ƒgh
"THE MAINE ~
Pifle
iShcu/ing ftiflc ftpdf' A
"THE MAINE ” S.S. Rifle
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It
is a take-down, and can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore arm. The action
used.on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is exceedingly simple, con-
sisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored and rifled
with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed
accurate to 300yds. ; weight 31b., fitted with plain V back
sight
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300yds.
Postage on one Rifle—l/3 N.S.W. ; 2/2 Inter-State.
126
151-
GUN and
RIFLE
REPAIRS
a Speciality.
Smdforour p f j cc
of Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition, etc.
Post Free, Anywhere.
ghgh
Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906 Model,
fm-Vo'S 2 °h barrel, plain trigger, straight grip, slide action,
tor 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges.
Postage—2/- N.S.W., 3/8 Inter-State.
44 -
gh
BAYARD SEMI-AUTOMATIC RIFLE,
22 ual., 19in. Round Steel Barrel, length over all
weight 3flh„ handles short or -
long cartridges, 22j 6
Postage—l/6 N.S.W., 2/8 Inter-State.
88888
SST
Stevens' “FAVORITE,”
22 W.R.F., or 22 Calibre Rim Fire, half-octagon 22in. barrel
case-hardened frame, solid breech block, take down action,’ open front ana tear
sights, weight b. Postage-1/9 N.S.W., 3/2 Interstate
We can supply the above Rifles fitted with Beach Combination Front Siifht and Vernier Real
2o or 32 Rlni Flre Calibres, same description as above, 2/6 each extra.
226 .
r, 35/-
gf
“ Winchester ” Single Shot
Rifle, 1904 Model,
- . for 22 short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy
round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight, length of rifle over-
al , 37£in., bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish ; weight, about 4lb.
Postage—l/9 N.S.W. ; 3/2 Inter-State.
245. 6d
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
City Depot: 119 King Street, Sydney;
and at Hunter Street, Newcastle.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dogs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
ƒgh
THE BEST
jSMOKE
is
YELLOW
ASTER
TOBACCO
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle .. in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
SCHUTE, BEJ-L, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to ail consignments. why not give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over SO en-
gravings, new 1018 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, (id. How to Get Rich, is posted. Dr. Lamar-
i'i n s Silk,nt Pm en d, Is 6d. Nkd Donnully’s Art
ok Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
llow to Danck, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. “ Moll
Flan dicks, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
TnditSTON’s Card Tricks, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Naha, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiik
HORSE, ]S. VENTRILOQUISM MADE EASY, Is. Ut’-TO-
Datk Comic Reciter, is. posted. How to Strengthen
tiik Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle op the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, l/e.
.Joys op Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyuook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & G ames,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert, Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, is (id. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s Od. A usr. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, !)<!. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) is
posted. Sandow’s Book op Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is (id. History -of the Rod (Flagellations
ansj.the Flagellants), scarce, Us. Practical Gas and
O.il Eng. Handbook, ss. Nor Guilty (Blateh-
f.ord), !)d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu. 9d and is 6d
Gob and My Neighbor, (id. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Hopsks
3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
ind Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught 1/3
How to Make Sweets. Jams and Syrups. Is °d ’\ew
Tricks with Coins, Js posted. House. PaintiWand
Papering., Js 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science
103 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, is 6 d!
'A
m
V
■
HOAIE CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 illustrations. 1248 Pastes.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in piain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old. but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting- their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20t'n CentUrv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-coiered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
ir-BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS- LOVE,
bUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Sk.cuk.ts and How to
"ix at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille. Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's -
Card Games (Rules for ail Games), ' Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River 4=
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic. Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, is. Evppv
Man His Own Carpenter, is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d. posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made jlasv, Is. posted. Kelly Gang ok
Bushrangers, illustrations' and portraits, Is: post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Sklf Instructor : Every Mas His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is Sdi French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannax's Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptameron, and many
oth-rs, ail at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The YVaybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. |?y~Established 2o Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 8i 69 Market Street, Sydney (only),
ONLY A SMALiIi IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER. OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Ui>, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, gemiine,
Is. Gi.d Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Hr. Milford's Mid’
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s fid.
Aristotle, 3/0. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistrv, Is. Champions of the
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. fid. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers'
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, Sd posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingkrsoll’s Works, Sd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coat.es), Is 3d posted. Crevasse's Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarp. Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.. leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing- Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. .Moore's Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s Gd posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com.
plete), Is fid posted. The Age op Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAV.


Another Triumph for
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
*
a
a. **mm
Mr. 11. DRY DEN
(from a photo.).
“For some considerable time I have
been a great sufferer with Bladder and
Kidney Complaint that has made my
life almost unbearable with its many
painful and ever-constant symptoms.
Scalding, Gravel, Bilious attacks, Head-
aches, Dizziness and Pains all over the
body, allowing me no proper rest night
or day, till I was practically worn down
to a skeleton,” writes Mr. H. Dryden,
96 Beet St., Invercargill, N.Z. “I was
continually using so-called remedies of
many descriptions with no good results,
and, till I started Dr. Sheldon’s Gin
Pills, I was in a very bad state indeed.
Your Gin Pills have, however, proved a
friend indeed to me, as from the first
few doses I started to improve, and in
a very short time they have completely
cured and eradicated all the above pain-
ful symptoms, and permanently cured
me of a most painful, trying and dan-
gerous malady, and I shall recommend
them on all possible occasions, and
always keep a .supply in the home.”
or
zr
MAKE THE BACK AND
EYS YOUNG AGAIN.
Do you know that: Backache, Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Bladder
Troubles, Headaches, Tiredness, Sleeplessness, and that “Run Down” Feeling are
the results of weak and diseased KidneysV Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills will make your
Back and Kidneys young again. They are specially prepared Backache and Kidney
Pills, entirely different from any other remedy, and infinitely more efficacious. They
are giving relief in numberless cases where many less efficacious remedies have been
tried in vain.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are procurable at all Chemists and Storekeepers in two
size Glass Containers, small size containing 30 pills at 1/6, and large size containing
65 pills at 2/6. If not obtainable locally, will be sent post free upon receipt of price
in stamps or postal note by the Sheldon Drug Co., Ltd., 15 O’Connell St., Sydney.
DrSheldon'sl, ——^
C INPILLS
for BACKACHE
and Kidney Troubles/
Play
Free
m
I
m
fjp/A
V-' ' -.r --fflBB
N &p' Mosf Famous Sliding Cord
>A Brace in the World
sXt
Sold Everywhere
. 2/- YJ
Guaranteed!^?
m
©
Gel the Genuine
DUPLEX
tlusf be Stamped
an Buckle.
If you want the very best
FLANNELETTE
the Old Country Produces
w HORROCKSES’
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON SELVEDGE
and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS. 1
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE HAND
The National
Honthly, 64-
Guardian Angels.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Churchill despises patriotic sentiment. “What
does Australia want with battleships,” he coolly in-
quires, “when Japan is her guarantee from assault ?
The First Lord of the Admiralty despises Australian
manhood if he thinks it will go into heroics over the
prospect of having a colored nation as its guardian
angel.— Melbourne Age.
The Britons had lost the habit of war, and were
helpless before these fierce foes. In their despair
they asked the Saxons to help them against the
l’iets and Scots. — English history.
BROTHERS; even those of you who are
already in the sear and yellow leaf,
and full of years and iniquity,
Sometimes, I doubt not, let your thoughts go
back to those days of antiquity
When mother tucked you into your little bed,
After your little prayers were said ;
And, having said good-night,
She most inconsiderately took away the light.
Then came, my brothers, that dread half-hour
in the day of a child;
When your mind was filhd with weird imag-
inings and fancies wild
Of Bogey-men and Hobgoblins, Ogres and
Demons; so that, for a space, you lay
Filled with a child’s vague fear of the dark,
and longing for the day.
Then, to comfort you, there came the thought
That guardian angels, as you had been
tauglitj
Hovered ever near
To watch over timid little boys and girls and
still their fear.
Is not that what mother said?
And, in vour childish mind you pictured a
feathered friend roosting benevolently
at the foot of your bed.
Then were you filled with solace deep ;
You sighed contentedly and went to sleep.
Brother;
I would speak to you of another kind of
mother;
Of our political mamma or historical mater :
Mrs. Britannia, to wit, who lives on the other
side of the equator.
You have doubtless seen her pictured upon
certain coins of the realm,
Sitting on the sharp edge of a shield, holding
a pitchfork, and wearing an absurd and
elaborate helm.
That is the lady; our dear old mum;
Mother of a large and parti-colored family
that has giveh her much trouble and
promises more in the years to come.
Hitherto she has tucked us bed,
And, for a trifling cash consideration, to
allay our dread,
Has, so to speak, left us the light
In the shape of a few more or less efficient
warships that might or might not be of
use in a fight;
But that was neither here nor there
So long as they served their purpose, and,
like the candle of childhood’s days, dissi-
pated the shadows and the attendant
thoughts that scare.
But, behold, my brother, we are no longer an
infant nation.
We have doffed our swaddling clothes, and
have gone into pants, and top-hats, and
motor-coats, and split-skirts, and other
habiliments of adult civilisation.
We are no longer young enough to pet and
fondle, to nurse and bounce and dandle;
And, behold, mother has taken away the
candle!
This is well enough ;
And nobody would be complaining if the dear
old lady didn’t try to fill us up with the
stuff
That was designed alone for infant ears,
And to allay imaginary fears.
She forgets, the poor, old worried mum, that
we have, so to speak, arrived now at
years of discretion,
And (if you will pardon the expression)
Endeavors to pull her trusting offspring’s
leg with the old, old tale
Of the beautiful and ever watchful guardian
angel that will never fail
To banish the naughty, nasty bogeys, the
wicked ogres that lurk
Around our little bed.... Brother, that
guardian angel gag won't world
We happen to know a little about this
saffron-colored seraph, this Mongolian
cherub to whose tender care our doting
parent would leave us ;
And, unless our eyes deceive us,
He bears a most remarkable resemblance to
the ogre that we fear!
We have not the least doubt that he will
most obligingly hover near
Our little cot.
But we are very, very anxious concerning
certain little childish possessions we
have got.
We have our own m-ivate opinions about the
sort of watch he will keep ;
And we have Wisely, if rebelliously, decided
that WE WILL NOT GO TO SLEEP ! !
Speaking of guardian angels and other birds,
I should just like to say a few words
In conclusion
In reference to this guardian angel illusion.
It will be remembered that mother herself,
when she was young, and not so handy
with the flatiron of war as she is to-day,
Had a little experience of her own in that
way.
It was a Saxon guardian angel, with fierce
whiskers and a spear,
That poor mother put her maiden trust in;
and it would appear
That he treated her in a very shameful and
ungentlemanly style;
For, after he had expelled the Scot burglar
or the Piet fowl-thief or whoever it was.
he remarked, with a sinister smile :
“Well, now that I am here,
My dear,
I think I’ll stay for a while.”
And that’s how mother got married.... He
did marry her in the end, or so I under-
stand,
And made an honest woman of her, and in
time they built up a very respectable
home in the land.
But, after all, despite his morals, he was a
white man. and a decent sort of n fellow.
And things might have been very different if
his color had happened to be yellow.
Since th«n, if any reliance can be placed on
the histories that adorn my shelf,
Mother has gone in rather largely for the
guardian business herself.
And this she has done, I must confess,
With considerable success.
She has played the benign guardian angel,
at one time and another, to quite a num-
ber of simple and unsophisticated folk,
Who. when her guardianship has become too
insistent, have not always appeared to
appreciate the joke.
But, my brother, this is what I should very
much like to know :
Since the old girl knows so much about this
thing, through personal experience, tchy
does she want to go
And put up that rusty old hlilff on her inno-
cent and confiding little son?
In the circumstances there is only one thing
for him to do, and the lesson cannot be
learned too soon: The only reliaMe guar-
dian angel for children of his age is a
gun !
I don’t know what you think about it,
brother;
But, speaking privately and strictly between
ourselves, I think it’s pretty crook on
the part of mother.
VICTORIA.
DEN.
The Spirits.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[N a devotional silence we await Professor
Wylie, psychologist and mental healer,
lie is also a dreamer of visions, who
di earns alwavs with one eye open for the
main chance.
He conies piesently, a cherubic man with
indications of a crease around his waist-
coat and a hint of an embryo fold at the
back of his neck. His eyes are hard, and
glittersome as a cat’s. His nose is thick,
and his lips are curly.
let, with all these indications of a materi-
alistic bent, he is savagely ascetic. He
gives his word on it.
One of the Professor’s “cures” by “sug-
gestion” takes the chair. Another, a lady in
a weepy silk costume, officiates at the piano.
Iu fact, most of the office-bearers are grap-
pled to the Professor’s side with hooks of
steel gratitude, for “by suggestion” he has
cured every one of them of something. Even
a torpid liver has become active at his
supreme behest.
Our quavering voices rise in song. The
Professor thanks some “Great White Spirit”
in advance for “blessings,” and introduces
his subject as “Dreams.”
While sizing up his audience, he orates
in a deliberate manner of “Functioning on
the Astral Plane.” He is quite familiar
with these mysterious phases of our exist-
ence. With nractice, it seems, we may be
also. His spirit, go he asseverates, leaves
liis body and goes forth —week-ending, pre-
sumably—to Peru or Maoriland, returning
on Monday morning simultaneously with
the milk.
On no conditions could he stay away
longer than, say, dinner-time, at latest, for
has he not invited us all to his Monday-
night Mentality Class? Of what use our
attendance there should the teacher’s spirit-
ual r>art be absent? As well be given the
nut without the kernel!
He proceeds to expound dreams. It is
our spiritual self, our aura, which is the
real Mackay, and gets there every time. He
declares “our everyday visible external self
is merely a husk, and of little value except
to work for wages.” He arranges dreams
in groups, even allotting to the nightmare
a place. He is down on hearty appetites.
“How,” he asks decisively, “can the spirit
of the glutton rise above his surcharged
stomach in answer to the call of other
spirits to function on the Astral Plane?
Weighed down by butcher’s meat, his brain
excited with the fumes of spirituous and
malted liquors, the sleeping glutton becomes
a mere arena for lights between his im-
prisoned spirit and its rescuers. Hence the
nightmare. How dare the glutton then
aspire to spiritual flight? No, no! Leave
him to nightmare!” advises the Professor.
“To the swine his sty !”
But Earnest Inquirer, sitting alongside
the Sceptic with the .wide grin of a success-
ful cornerman, wants to know.
“What,” she asks herself, “of the tubby
individual who, after wading through a
heavy, four-course dinner, quickly followed
by three dozen oysters washed down with
‘Bulldog,’ sleeps dreamlessly as a babe?”
Earnest Inquirer knows of one such. In
the whole course of 40 years of gorge he
has never drear l ~d a dream. What is the
deduction? Has ho no aura? Is his sleep
simply a lizard-like coma, or is he indeed
quite brainless, and therefore exempt? It
may be the fault of the visiting spirits.
Possibly they are respecters of persons, and
draw distinctions. To them, this obese, pig-
eyed type of person may be no class —prac-
tically non-existent.
“To get good results and ecstatic experi-
ence, let the student of the psychic dine
sparingly,” advises the Professor. “Let him
quaff pure water; let him be ascetic, in
readiness for the ministrations of the spirits.
Don’t eat crayfish, friends, and then com-
plain at not getting the spirits!” Great
twittering. “All you’ll get is the night-
mare !”
This sally brings down the house. It
rocks in its appreciation. Only one or two
see nothing laughable in the crayfish jest,
but they are people devoid of all sense of
humor.
When the loud laughter ceases. Earnest
Inquirer again looks interrogative:—
“Will even a spirit then renege, at the
whiff which recalls the good old earthly
times, when fish and bottled ale were in
circulation ?”'
She turns to her neighbor, but meeting
only the wide grin of deriskm. passes the
question.
“There is no such ecs-tatic joy,” chants
the Professor in his curiously deliberate man-
nrr of speech, “as —to —rise—from —the
bod-dy leaving all sin and troub-ble, and to
soar a-way and a-wav. Manv times in my
own ex-pe-rience my astral self has so soared
in com-pany with other bright luminosities
to the limits of Snace.
“Once, as an instance. I well remember
meeting Mrs. Gull a daughter of old Dr.
Drugge, known to many of you in Mel-
bourne. She. though ap-parently _ sleep-ing
in her room at her home, was functioning on
the Astral Plane. Though the mother of a
lovely babe Mrs. Gull found her greatest joy
(Continued on next page.)


SIMPLE ACCIDENT CAUSES
-RUNNING ULCERS-
Whole Leg a Swollen Mass of Inflammation—Bedridden for Months
Together. Every Description of Treatment Completely Fails.
Zam-Buk’s Remarkable Triumph of Skin-growing
and Disease-dispelling.
As a triumph of skin-healing and disease-
dispelling, the victory by Zam-Buk in the case
of Mrs. S. Clifford, of 67 Gold Street, Collingwood,
Melbourne, is probably without parallel. This
lady says:—“While going upstairs I slipped
and scraped the skin off one of my legs. I
neglected to give the wound any special
attention, and simply bound it up,
thinking it would be all right; but in-
stead of getting better the leg gradu-
ally grew worse, and at the end of three
months it had developed alarming
symptoms. The wound discharged and
presented the appearance of a running
ulcer, the pain being almost unbear-
able. I thought blood-poisoning had
set in.
“The climax came one night, when
my leg got so bad and presented such
serious indications, that I made up my
mind to go into the hospital the next
morning. I did so, and there I was a
patient, undergoing continuous treat-
ment, for eighteen months. The doctors
scraped the bone in the leg, and the
agony afterwards was indescribable.
In the hospital the doctors applied
hot fomentations and ointments to
draw out the inflammation and reduce
mmmmm
- S*
MRS. CLIFFORD , icho records
her gratitude to Zam-Buk.
the fearful swelling; but their efforts were powerless to do me any good. At last my
eg got so bad that I had to become a resident in the hospital, where the doctors
omen tations to the wound every hour incessantly for two days.
‘Then the doctors resolved to graft some skin over the wound. They did so, but
>e graft’ remained on only two or three days, when it came away and a fresh wound
broke out and formed an outlet near the ankle-bone, increasing tenfold my already
overflowing cup of misery.
“I was an inmate of the hospital for a month. I then left that institution for
lome, and thankful I was to do so. My mother happened to be talking to a neighbor
about me one day, and telling her how I was suffering. She immediately asked mother
it I had tried Zam-Buk. She strongly advised mother to get a supply, and let me try
it on my leg.
mother \ fortunately, followed her advice, and procured a pot of Zam-Buk. I
ItfJaT-* , dressing, and 1 . ,n,1cr the influence of Zam-Buk the pain ceased almost im-
mediateiy, the inflammation and swelling subsided, and I could actually feel the
of Zam-Buk at work. I continued with the treatment of Zam-Buk.
a dressing every two or three hours, each application bringing additional
eI After a week ot this treatment the wound on the ankle had healed completely.
1 i a hard er fight with the larger wound, however, but I knew that my case
? as a , bad *" e ’ and 1 £ept on and persevered with Zam-Buk. The big ulcerated hole
began to contract, the bottom of the wound looked healthier in every way, and at the
end of six weeks Zam-Buk had completed its miraculous work, and the wound was
healed right up with clean, new, healthy skin.”
ghf
every home needs a pot.
Zam =■ Buk banishes
eczema, ulcers, bad
legs, sores, blotches,
rashes, pimples, spots
and itching skin
troubles, t/6 and 3/6
per pot everywhere.
Chamberlain's
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy.
This is the best medicine procurable for bowel complaint in all its forms. It
relieves pain in the stomach, dysentery, diarrhoea and colic. It has been the means
of saving more pain and suffering than any other known remedy. Thousands of
mothers in all parts of the world have given it to their children and now sing - its
praises. This medicine is especially valuable in checking Diarrhoea which nearly
always attacks the babies when teething. One dose will relieve pains in the stomach
and it seldom takes more than three or four doses to stop a severe attack of Diarrhoea.
Always take Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy at the first unusual
looseness of the bowels. There is no class of ailments that attack the system quicker
than bowel complaints atid when a medicine is wanted it is wanted quickly. What
has made Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy so popular is that the relief
is just as quick. It is a medicine that should be kept in the home at all times and we
advise you to procure a bottle at once, for it will save trouble later on and perhaps be
the means of saving a life.
0
&
The most persistent and troublesome ail-
ment known —the cause of headache and
languid feeling —the forerunner of many
diseases —is cured by Chamberlain’s Tab-
lets. Then most of the other ailments
vanish because nature has a free chance to
work. Chamberlain’s Tablets are a
simple and reliable remedy.
in leaving her fleshly casket and meeting and
talking to departed friends on'the Plane.”
h urther details of Mrs. Gull and her re-
pnted father, Dr. Drngge, are lost on Ear-
nest Inquirer. who is puckering np her brows
again. " ' • ■ ■ .. .
Y hat if Mrs. Gull’s babe Jiad whooping-
cough. Could she be recalled by'lel£pathiy’"if
required, or would the infant whoop itself
to death beside the parent’s spirit-vacated
and responseless form?”
It is a ouery for the Sceptic with the
smile. Earnest Inouirer puts it, but the
sceptic, as becomes the owner of such a grin,
can see nought but farce in anything, so the
Inquirer qesists once more.
- -^ n< ? n the lecturer introduces “Spirit-
V; armng.” Being highly medium!stic it
visits him often.
‘‘l have never forecasted the Cup winner,
so punters please kppp a-way !” he smirks.
Again side-splittipg mirth takes us. The
room is full of qheep-ljke grins, yet they
are not as thp gfin of the sceptical friend of
lpqpirer. Heps is of sardonic joy—a vast
appreciation pf our Professor’s oratorical
flights,
lime presses, but I will relate an instance
ot a warning dream. While still an unbe-
liever m psychometry I was asked to join
an excursion by train. As the day an-
proached I dreamt that we used vehicles
instead. I dreamt that I was driving a
spirited horse when it bolted. I saw in my
dream the other occupants of the vehicle
sitting tight, but my seat being higher gave
me a better view of the road and the danger
ahead—a precipice over which we should he
surely killed. Well, I awoke and thought,
no more of the dream. But, my friends
everything happened as I was warned. We
did drive in vehicles. I saw the cliff ahead.
Impelled by the spirit power I threw aside
the reins and leaped. As it happened, the
ground was saw-ft, and, except fob a mud-
stain on my trousers, I was none the worse
tor my terrible experience.”
We heave a sigh of relief at this, and
SrSi er awe when he says, impressively:
Utten now, when functioning on the Astral
l lane, I meet the other occupants of the
tiap and together we go over the scene.”
Another instance. I once wished to take
a holiday, sailing by the s.s. Sink. As I
neared the ticket office, I felt myself im-
pelletl past it and into a fish saloon. Im-
pelled by spirit control I ordered fish, and
sat listening to a gramophone till it was too
late to purchase my passage. Next day I
went again to the shipping office, and again
spmt hands impelled me past the door. I
lost my bearings and found myself in a
place where, ahem, ahem i a had cough over-
takes him here) where ginger-beer was sold.”
Here he pauses.
„ u one glass of this non-intoxicant I
tell asleep. When I awoke” —again he
pauses, flashing his eye at us like a cat
P °CKET HAD BEEN
I IGlvEl ). To such a length had the spirits
protected me. Better my money than my
i e ‘, J he s ' s - Sink went down with all
hands ,
. With every nerve taut and tense we drink
in these horrible details and afterwards look
with wonder at the Professor’s “cures,” who
rise here and there to testify in an informal
manner.
One has been cured of a jealous husband
by suggestion, and brags about it. “No
more suspicion,” she says. “’E stays at
home now, minding young Willie, while I’m
talking mentality and ’ealing. Once I
couldn’t look out me own door, I couldn’t!”
“Never mind, friend,” interrupts the
teacher of these cults tactfully; “don’t talk
y ? u ’ d rather not—we will excuse you.”
u 1S u * :r °wning_ slightly. He sees plainly
what she needs is another suggestion cure—
for garrulity—and determines to give it
gratis.
As the night is passing he hurries along
the programme. At his instigation we sit
in silence and think “good thoughts” for the
recovery of one of the Professor's disciples,
who, presumably through neglect of his
spiritual advisers, is at present laid up
by a railway accident. We think “good
thoughts for his recovery, even hop-
mg in our indifference that he collect good
damages. _ The glittering-eyed professor re-
ceives this hurricane of thoughts through
his own person, holding tight to his arm-
chair lest he be blown away—and then mys-
teriously passes them on to the invalid.
Depleted by this he bows in silence for a
moment, ere resuming his “work,” which is
to introduce spirits to our notice and read
our auras.”
We flutter like pigeons at this and take
fresh lease of things supernatural.
Behind you, friend, the light is breaking.”
He points to the front row. A man there
ducks apprehensively.
“The light is breaking right over your
head 1 see the spirit of a man there.
He seems, a-hem, to be called William.”
I ,,™. vera * hands go up, all claimant for
VV ill i am.
“No, behind the lady in blue,” says ■ the
Professor. William passed over, he died,
about, a-hem, er-er, a-hem —some time ago.
Is that right?”
«i “ Y( : S C says she the cerulean line, curtly,
he died two years ago of a growth.”
. , . es > that’s what William says. A growth
ln • lem > or” after waiting
vainly tor corroborative evidence from the
lady—“head, or” ——
“Internal,” interjects the lady.
Exactly! Internal growth. Well, he
wishes to warn you against ill health—stay-
ing indoors too much—says that fresh air is
9 ea ll er—and that’s why we don’t value
it. He seems to think, too, that a course of
n" 1 ) 7 treatment would benefit you—you under-
stand.
One could wish William were a little more
to. the point, but must feel thankful he is
with us at all.
Many spirits visit us. One comes bearing
a bright light of blue and vellow. He is
stout and claims a lady present as liis
daughter, but on the matter of stature she
and the Professor are at variance In the
end, however, he cures her doubt by
tion Her parent has grown snirituallv since
dem * se - , If spiritually, why not' physi-
eafly ? So she meekly accepts the fat substi-
tute for her weedy progenitor and lapses
into silence. Many spirits present are well
illuminated; quite a scramble of them sug-
gesting there has been a pyrotechnic display
Over There.” and they have brought their
fireworks with them. One carries something
bulky as well as his lamp. It turns out to
be a harp. He brings it mostly fir identi-
fication and then thrums the “Merrv Widow”
waltz.' • ...
Being clair-audient the Professor vouches
tor the Performance 1 ;'and we hear it only by 1
proxy. THb spirits radiate beautiful colors ;
beams of blue and yellow, red and gold shoot
rrom some contrivance like a Bunsen burner
they are all equipped with. One becomes
quite jealous of the Professor’s clairvoyant
vision. Pie is having all the fun.
‘‘l see a gentle old spirit, bearing a bright
nght, hovering near the back seats,” our
psychic guide announces. “A mother search-
ing for her son.” No sons claim the gentle
spirit though among daughters the bidding
is brisk. But a son must be found; and, in
desperation, the Professor foists her on to
nn old gentleman who seems to be in a
trance; but he, on being prodded by an ad-
jacent elbow to a sense of the situation
indignantly denies all knowledge of her. and!
reaching for his hat, stumps out.
I hen the teacher gives us hints on con-
centration.
"Will any person in the street to look
round and he will do so. That’s the first
test in concentration*” Earnest Inquirer
tries it there and then. She wills a; thin-
haired man to turn and look at her. Sure
enough, he does so. Oh horror! It is a
dun-m point of fact, her baker.
Anyone else wanting a message from the
spirits before the benediction, friends?”
asks our tired, brain-worn leader. Two
hands go up. One, belonging to a lady with
tne grin oi a corner-woman, gets no response,
the Prophet cuts,her dead.
Ihe other hand belongs to Earnest In-
quirer, who, since recoginsing the dun, has
been searching in her handbag for cash to
give In m on account. She holds it up
steadily. A departing spirit who has for-
gotten to switch off his light is hauled back
tor her benefit.
you^frfend’’— — Spirit standin * i«st behind
The Earnest Inquirer, more earnest than
ever stands up: “It’s not an interview I
want, sir, but half a sovereign that I put
in the plate 111 mistake for sixpence.”
WEEROONA.
Truth.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LONG had I labored vainly, in the dark,
r a dim study on a sordid street,
Thinking to conjure up the vital spark,
That on the hilltop only one may meet.
Then came a wind that blew my papers wide,
Threw wide my door, and made but light
of me,
And cast me on a sunny mountain side,
from those clouded ways, and left me
free.
Yet, with the inborn curse to be immured,
Soon 1 sought out a narrow house of stone
-Lhat still within its walls might be secured
lhat little world that rounds in self alone.
Therein a study, up a flight of stairs—
Once more that foolish hiding from the
light;
quickly, from the recollection, wears
The late uplifting of a wider flight.
True, in my study is no pane of glass;
i\or will its window (‘lose against the
breeze,
And binds and bats and flying beetles pass
As freely in and out it as they please.
Through all the hours they come, but not to
stay;
.They only whisper, passing, in my ear
A mu ys , the same impatient: “Up, away!
Ihe lady Truth can never enter here!”
“We are liet airy messengers, and fly,
keeking her truant vassals, high and low.
Oome! khe is waiting in the woods near by,
Wearily questioning the flowers that
blow.
Then comes the breeze again and I am borne,
blinking and stumbling, from my lurking
place,
Into the light of rosy, glowing morn,
lo meet the gracious goddess, face to face.
“Man loves me, loves me not”—she flings
aside
The broken blossom, and. with shining
eyes,
Springs to her feet, and stands in all her
pride,
Robed in the morning' mist, all dreamy
wise.
Now, with a queenly movement, she has
thrown
The light robe from her, like a waking
dream;
And, with her glowing hair about her blown,
Has plunged her fair white body in the
stream.
Tis not to hide her naked loveliness,
Rut for the joy of water, clear and keen,
Isussmg her freshness, with a pure caress,
lo faintest rose tints, dewy crystalline.
Then, on the farther bank she lies at ease,
I ensive, and pleased, among the flowers
that lift
Glad eyes to hers, while, wafted on the
breeze,
A-down the stream those broken petals
drift.
Now the nymph speaks, as from a far-off
sphere,
Filling the scented air with sweetest sound,
ko that I rather breathe her words than
hear
Wisdom and music wreathing me around :
l arn for love of man, free as the flowers
±o the pure breeze, or as the water weeds
Are to the stream through all the sunny
hours,
Or, to the dews of night, the grassy meads.
But breeze and stream and dew are spirits
And ask no tribute for the gifts they bring
kave as my worshippers may take of mine,
-b air reflex of unstinted offering. 99
Shine, sun! Blow, breeze! Smile, flowers r
and ripple, stream!
Truth has bespoken me, as ne’er before •
lVnw m n 1 n ra T' ened , f r ,m a lifelon e dream;
JNow shall I seek her in dark wavs no
more.
MAJORCA, SPAIN.
LINDO-WEBB.


WESTINGHOUSE
(MORSE) CHAIN DRIVES
■
m
mi
ML
1
Mi
£
m
.
For all types of high-speed
power transmission.
Positive in Action
Silent in Operation
Unrivalled in Efficiency.
Because their patented feature,
The Rocker Joint,
eliminates the friction due to
sliding surfaces. Consequently
you have
Full Power
Continuous Power
Satisfactory Power.
Full Particulars from
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents—Philips & Pike, Wellington.
Have You Considered
BOUNDER
RESAWS?
They are a much better proposition
than a Band Resaw. The upkeep is
considerably less, and the saw-kerf is
smaller, combined with more finished
cutting.
Universally Used in Europe in
Preference to a Band Resaw.
Feed up to 150 ft. per minute.
ymmm>
Ask our Bolinder expert to call on you with a view of explaining more
fully the advantages of these Machines.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Brisbane: GORDON FAINE LTD. Melbourne: NOYES BROS. LTD.
GOLDFIELDS DIAMOND DRILLING CO.Pty.Ltd.
331 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works—Sturt St., South Melbourne.
£2
l gARMSTROHG
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Armstrong: Traction Well-Boring: Machine
MOVES WITHOUT HORSES
RUMELY KEROSENE
OIL TRACTORS.
ALL-STEEL BORING PLANTS,
TOOLS AND CASING.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines,
Pumps, Windmills, Silos, Hay
Presses, Wagons, etc., etc.
ƒhg
DAY AND NIGHT
ADTOMATICALLY.
RIFE I« RAM
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL.
Satlsfacttyn Guaranteed. Over 7000 In use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile—
WRITE FOR FREE PLANS and BOOK.
2613 Trinity Bldg.
RIFE ENGINE CO. New York
TOOTH &. CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Avid Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
THE RIGHT STEP TO TAKE
I\
\
\
b
TAKE
Beechams Pius
AND YOU WILL TAKE A STEP
IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION.
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager.
a
,C:\
SAWMILLERS,
Builders & Joiners.
Take my advice and buy your
Woodworking Machines at
KIRCHNER & CO.
32 MarKet (Street, Sydney.
They hold the largest stock in Australasia. They give you
value for your money. They are the manufacturers, and can
save you the heavy, middleman’s commission. Their
machines are up to date and reliable. They stock all spare
parts and reserve tools. It will be a pleasure to you and
your men to work their machines.
Go and see them to-day, or ’phone City 7091.
CASH OR TERMS. CATALOGUES FREE.
Metz-“22£190
The Simple Gar for the Country.
These Serviceable Cars are at Work all over N.S.W.
If you require a Simple, Economical, Reliable and Moderately-priced Car it will
pay s uu to investigate tbe iriction Drive (eliminating complicated
gear wheels), 22 H.F., 4 cyl. Bosch Ignition, IOMn. clearance, 45m. p. hour,
33m. p. gallon.
Brown § Hellicar Ltd.,
375 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
The British-built
Waver ley,
From £350 to £375
Nett.
fgh
It is time that you
applied something to
your Eczema that will
definitely heal it. Send
Sd. (in stamps) for
Liberal Sample Tube of
“ISO,” celebrated
throughout Australia, to
BLACK, Chemist, Col-
lingwood, Victoria. [„
I flB Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price
7
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like-the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Lgyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations .Jo deceive y-m. Look for the signa-
™[, e ° f fr t ed Ard i e - V on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write tot our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
maciTltd.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
FRICTION HOISTS.
SPECIALLY SUITED for BUILDERS’ USE.
SIZE IN STOCK: scwt. lift at 200 ft. per minute.
scwt. lift at 300 ft. per minute.
lOcwt. lift at 175 ft. per minute.
Fitted with Motors for Use on any Supply Voltage or System. MODERATE PRICES.
OF AUSTRALIA Ltd*
SYDNEY : Wynyard Lane.
MELBOURNE: G 1 William Street.
BRISBANE: Corner Saul &. Roma Streets.
3520 City.
5H7 City.
3676 Central.
Hardie’s Genuine
Used In place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID S ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES HARPIE St CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
and at Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
E
TH
m
DALGEJV & C 9 LTP,
x=====-AGEHTS.= ====S! ' j
4
\*h\oh
1 Union ” Harvester.
Clayton & Shuttleworth
Portable Steam Engine.
i
Tangye Kerosene Oil Engine
ghf
Machinery Merchants, Miller’s Point, SYDNEY, and all Branches.
AGENCIES ft
TANGYES: Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Steam Engines, Boilers, Pumps of all
descriptions, Winches, Chain Blocks, Hydraulic Jacks, Screw Jacks, Bears, e £” .
CLAYTON & SHUTTLE WORTH: Portable Steam & Traction Engines, Steam Road Hollers, etc.
NICHOLSON & MORROW: “Union” Farm Implements, comprising Harvesters, Brills, etc.
WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines. MUNRO Chaffeutters and Saw Benches.
GANE MILKING MACHINES.
For Modern Wood-Working Machinery.
IN STOCK—J. A. PAY & EQAN CO.’s
Planers, Matchers, Molders & Surfacers, Band Saws, Saw Benches,
Swing Cut-off Saws, Hand Planers & Jointers —Latest Improved
Types by this well-known Firm.
“American” Steel Split Pulleys, Cleveland Twist Drills, and All
Requisites for the Sawmiller, Woodworker, Carpenter & Joiner.
Catalogues and Prices on Application.
H. P. GREGORY CO.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC LIGHT
WITH ECONOMY.
AUTOMATIC ELECTRIC LIGHTING SETS
FOR PRIVATE INSTALLATIONS
OVERCOME ACCUMULATOR TROUBLES.
NO ATTENDANT. THEY START and STOP THEMSELVES.
‘sxnhdv aaos
‘■an ‘imnvhj ‘NOiHnsavM
OX ATddV
307-311 Kent Street, Sydney ;
and
380 Bourke Street, Melbourne
isver*
hgf
Sheep-shearingf perfection in the highest
degree goes with the Lister handpiece*
Superiority and durability of the front
rank go with the Lister spare parts—
duplicates guaranteed to fit the Wolseley♦
ƒĝ
hfgh
dye
•9
M
9-13 YOUNG
Stte BEST ENGINE TO BUY. - -
Efie CHEAPEST ENGINE TO RUN.
Sfce AUSTRALIAN - MADE ENGINE.
In Other Words—
THE SUNSHINE ENGINE
Maker: H. V. McKAY, Sunshine, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane.
t
m
(S 3
Showing Method of
Mixing ingredients,
FARMERS, REDUCE YOUR COSTS
by nPlinilllAll (Patent Explosive Compound)
usins RENDROGK The Cheapest Farm Help.
WILL blast trees and stumps—break hard pan—dig ditches—subsoil, etc.
Now being used successfully by Agriculturists and Vignerons throughout Australia.
Ask for our Illustrated Pamphlet, giving full particulars and instructions for use.
No Magazine required. Forwarded as ordinary merchandise.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS-
UP.
6UTHRIP6E
Equitable Buildings, Sydney
Church Lane, Melbourne
