

the Whisky of Sterling Value
9
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Milling’ and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADV,
A
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
M-5 W-MONT DE PIETE D SI C
Head Office: 74 CASTEEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And at Telephone: No. 225 Central.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
m
11
HOBAHT,
JSHB
(adley’s Orient jjotel.
Richardson’s
Wine 8 Spirit Stores,
68 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
158 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
fg
Bottle, Case or Gallon at
hg
Hultorv’^
Piiyco^lc’ 1
6acoi\
'^COvC'" ! §
CHUBB'S
STEEL AND
CONCRETE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
J„
TABLETS
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
h
fgh
are specially constructed to ensure Long; Service.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
'M
I
DRINK
fgh
Your Rooms and their
Appearance!
The Refined and Dignified Appearance of the old oak-panelled rooms of
Old English Homes may easily be transferred to the Homes of To-day,
with the aid of Amiwud.
What is Amiwud?
It is a beautiful reproduction of the finest panel timbers, with the same
real beauty of grain and rich* color faithfully reproduced.
Amiwud will cost you far less than the old panelling.
We can supply it in Golden Oak, Weathered Oak, Mahogany or Jenisero.
We’ll gladly send you samples and Quotations. Write to-day.
mm—wPj
V
1
U
n
w
THE PARAFFINE PAINT Cl?.
( Man uf actu rers \
V Of MALTHOID )l
Challis House,
D. S . EVANS, Australasian
Manager.
Agents Everywhere.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THOCLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T ?
fgh
THE- CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L-
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
QUEEN Of STATES
"'®*^’*
SPA
The efficacy of HEUDON SPA lies in its
solvent power and cleansing properties .
STARKEYS LTD., Agents.
Phillip St,, Sydney, and Redfern
The Bulletin
Yol. 35.—N0. 1792.]
[Thursday, June 18, 1914.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


POCKET LITERATURE
at 1/4 per vol.
Post Free.
The Best of the World’s Literature, in Fiction, Poetry, History, Biography,
Philosophy and Science.
Authors, such as Shakspeare, Scott, Dickens, Thackeray, Balzac, Dumas, Lytton, Darwin, Holmes, Eliot
Emerson, Carlyle, Austen, .Lamb, Reade, Macaulay, etc., etc., are represented. ’ ’ ’
Size, 6x4 inches. On thin and opaque paper. W r rite for full lists. Sent Post Free.
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROPTY, LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Philippine cigarettes, very
BEST. Cigarettes made in Islands,
either white or brown paper.
P»uen Fumar, 12/6 per 1000 cigarettes.
Domingo Fumar. 17/- per 1000 cigarettes.
Selecto Fumar, 30/- per 1000 cigarettes.
6 packages, all different brands, the very
best, as trial, 4/2.
These cigarettes are packed 25 in package,
post paid. Satisfaction or money back.
Pattingell & Co., Lucena, Tayabas, P.I.
THE TRAVELLING RUG
PAR EXCELLENCE.
“HOSGIEL”
RUGS.
Entirely made from
High=grade Wool.
Handsome in ... .
Appearance and
Luxuriously Comfortable.
Obtalna b 1 e
at all the
Best Shops. [2
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
For Coughs! Colds! Influonzo.! the buyer beware /
on
m
The large sale for “EUMENTIIOL JU-
JUBES” has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of men-
thol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure and get
HUDSON’S EUMENTIIOL JUJUBES. You
may be asked to buy other jujubes, and be
told they are “just as good” as Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes. This proves that these
imitations and substitutes have no reputa-
tion of their own, and can only be sold on the
good repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
POST FREE ON RECEIPT 1 //C
OF STAMPS,
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS,
or from the Manufacturers—
HUDSON'S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY LTD,, 19 York Street, SYDNEY, p
The Red Page
May
The average of quality in the 41 sonnets
submitted upon our Australian May was, as
usual in these competitions, high. Pleasant
sonnets were forwarded by: Herbert Tracey
L.A.G., Will Jarrett, E. 8., and L. J. Villiers!
Duncan Brown s fine images are crudely
expressed. J. Phillips actually rimes “dawn”
with, morn.” Charles F. Pettinger proves
unfaithful to his iambic metre. In the wel-
come humorous section Mick Much, as usual,
reaches quotation.
I ain’t a nark, but “flowers o’ May’s” a gag
Thet makes me do me block or chuck me feed.
it > blokes wot writes the stuff fer mugs to read
Mus alluz live upon the flamin' jag
“The merry month” ’s another bit o’ mag!
W’y, if yer follored to the written lead,
tt ° KM? paddieks shone wiv flowers en’ seed—
Until yerd git yer head shoved in a bag.
There’s grass now ’bqve the groun’ en’ inch er so,
But soft en pappy fer the grazin’ stock ;
Ez fer the flowers, there’s on’y green to show
Were every nag’s ez bony ez a crock.
Erbout the merry month thet gits the blow
There’s frost en’ rain thet fairy tale to knock.
Mjck Much.
Ben Sun makes a series of direct
statements, and introduces one allegory that
is not dignified enough for the rest of the
sonnet. Ruth Monteagle Varley has one fine
thought magnificently expressed, but she
struggles in vain for clarity for her other
ideas. W., with a fine sestette, rimes “stray”
with “astray.” A.F.’s two entries are inter-
esting, but spoiled by incongruous words.
R. G. Henderson says little in language that
is charming. In one of her sonnets A. Gore-
Jones uses “thine” and “your” in addressing
the month; and in the other —a sonnet of
high quality—rimes “hours” with “ours.”
Jas. V. E. spoils a fine sonnet by devoting
the last two lines to an intrusive June. Mary
Bayliss’s effort is obviously crude; her rimes
are open to question, her images clash and
her construction is patchy; but she does
manage, despite these defects, to convey a
sense of this Australian month.
All day is heard the lonely plover’s cry,
Rejoicing o’er his cup’s increasing flow;
Too soon the night descends when black bats show
The darkling spirit of a session nigh ;
Slow dropping sagging hours, a chilly sky
Distils a drift of early unkind snow;
Old Kosciusko lifts a chastened brow
Touched by the dying year’s solemnity.
A shaft of light—that strikes the saddened world—■
A glimpse again of violet and rose—
And, like a nun to cloister, duty sped,
’Twixt smile and tear May passes, banner furled.
Cold Winter leaps upon us as she goes—
But we shall live by joys remembered.
Mart Batliss.
Mary A. K. .Robb’s sonnet is hardly Aus-
tralian : hers is a threnody on the dying
year. A minor flaw is the placing of the
caesura in the 11th and 12th lines. The
break or pause in each line should be
placed in a different position to that of the
preceding line.
May’s world is green and grey —a world at rest,
Made tranquil, glad, by Autumn’s healing tears ;
Forgotten are the languor and the fears
That Summer dying laid upon earth’s breast: —■
(This tender radiance is her prized bequest.)
The birds sing heavenly sweet to listening ears —
A wind-swept echo whispers, “Winter nears!”
Sing birds! This gift of calm is of God’s best!
What charm elusive makes the world so fair?
Is it the sun’s mild beams that gild the grey,
And light the faded leaves to gems? Or, say,
Is it the winds that chase the clouds? The air
A-throb with life that sets the leaves a-play?
O skies ! O earth ! The charm is everywhere !
Mary A. K. Robb.
S. Elliott Napier’s sonnet is clever—too
clever. Its similes are brilliant; but they
leave the reader coldly admiring, not
thrilled. And the “studs” in May’s “night-
robe” introduce a disturbing and incongruous
image.
The autumn sunsets paint the aureate West
With all the perfect purples of the year.
True to his tryst, behold! the wheat is here
And throws his decent veil o'er Earth's bare
breast.
Like heretics in sanbenitos dressed
The flame-trees in their scarlet cloaks appear,
And Nature, with a sudden gusty tear,
Is fain, a weary child, for Winter's rest.
For May is come —she walks the misty ways
And greets the lilac orchid's bowing buds
With little lilting laughs of sunshine, cross’d
With sighs. Her night-robes gleam with
starry studs
Of glist’ning steel, and all her hearth-fires
blaze
Defiance to the clutching claws of Frost!
S. Elliott Napier.
The prize goes to that consistent com-
petitor, Nina Murdoch, 77 Ben Boyd-road,
Neutral Bay, for a sonnet that show’s in the
octette evidence of original observation; and
though the sestette is weak, the octette is
characteristically Australian.
Entries for the sonnet competition on our
Australian June must be received by this
page by July 4.
MAY.
By NINA MURDOCH.
The chokos on the vine are turning white;
And sunset skies forego their vivid hues
For tender pinks and pastel greys and blues;
The black swans have begun their winter
flight
That bears them keening through the sombre
night;
While in the long grass dank with heavy
dews
The mating snakes creep silently in twos,
And winds go moaning as in sudden fright.
Running comes May with cheeks a little pale
And hair the wind has blown across her eyes,
Her flying feet set rustling all the sere
Dead leaves that mark autumnal April's
trail,
And as she speeds, with sobbing breath she
cries,
u Alas! The winter is already here!"
Some Novels
Patrick Mac Gill has already had notice
upon this page as the author of Songs from
the Dead End, a collection of navvy verses,
admirably representing tire navvy view-
point in literature, but somewhat spoiled by
the author’s emphasis on his navvyhood.
These verses were obviously autographical;
and now in Children of the Dead End
(Jenkins, per Dymock’s Library) we have
his autobiography in the guise of fiction.
The book is valuable, as any faithful tran-
scription of life is valuable. It is also inter-
esting, since the navvy’s life in England,
hitherto inarticulate, is here gruffly given
voice.
This epic of the navvy begins with the
author’s poverty-stricken Irish family, where
the priest takes all. Mac Gill went out, a
boy of twelve, to do a man’s work for a
starvation wage. Then he made one of a
gang of potato-diggers in Scotland, where
under almost inconceivable: conditions of
existence youths and young girls managed
to make a few shillings. Followed a spell
of gipsying on the roads, begging and steal-
ing for a bare livelihood. Then the heroic
labor at the Ivinlochleven waterworks in the
Highlands, in an isolated pagan community
where long labor was relieved by drink and
gambling, where fights, under no rules, took
place daily and the law of tooth and claw
prevailed. There Mac Gill discovered that
he could write verse; and a few of his con-
tributions found their way into the papers.
Finally he was offered employment on a
London newspaper; but this he left. The
reason given is evidently fictitious, since, in
order to render his book a novel he rounds
out his story by the finding of the girl he
loved as a child. She has gone wrong, and
he finds her on her death-bed.
“In fiction you settle upon the final chap-
ter before you begin the first, and every event
is described and placed in the fabric of the
story to suit an end already in view. A
story of real life, like real life itself, has
no beginning, no end. Emanating from the
mind of a man or a woman, the plot is
worked up so . that it arouses interest and
compels attention. Such an incident is un-
necessary ; then dispense with it. Such a
character is undesirable; then away with
him. . Such a conversation is unfitting; then
substitute one more suitable. But I, writing
a true story, cannot substitute imaginary
talk for real, nor false characters for true,
if I am faithful to myself and the task im-.
posed upon me when I took to writing the
story of my life 1 write of the ills which
society inflicts. on individuals like myself,
and when possible I lay every wound open
to the eyes of the world.”
Unfortunately Mac Gill has not kept to his
brave resolve. But the story is, in the
main, true; and there are many incidents so
faithfully and finely portrayed that they bear
the clear impress of reality. Such pictures
as those of his dreadful youth and the brutal
life at Ivinlochleven are worth more than
his romance of Norah, the girl he loved,
even when she went on to the streets. His
philosophy, too, is his own —a navvy philo-
sophy :
“My headache cleared away and I had
threepence and felt happy. By getting
drunk the night before I niade myself imper-
vious to the rain and blind to the discom-
forts of the cold and the slush of the road-
way.... As a matter of course I often got
drunk when a cold night rested over the
houseless road, and when my body shuddered
at the thought of spending hour after hoar
in the open. Drink kept me company, and
there was no terror that we could not face
together, drink and I 1 do not see any-
thing wrong in taking liquor as long as a
man makes it his slave. Drink was a slave
to me. I used it for the betterment of my
soul, and for the comfort of my body....
Only drink can draw a man from his misery;
only by getting drunk may a man sleep well
on the cold ground... .Drink is a servant
wonderfully efficient.”
There is no literary artifice about that
creed. And things seen are transferred to
the printed word with a fine drastic realism.
Take this picture of a man killed on the
railway—the man into whose shoes foodless
Mac Gill considered himself supremely lucky
to step :
_ “He had been cut in two; the-fingers of
his left hand, severed clean away, were lying
on the slag. The engine wheels were drip-
ping with b100d.... All the men were terror-
stricken, and a look of fear was in every eye.
They did not know whose turn would come
next. A few of them stepped reluctantly
forward and carried the thing which had
been a fellow-man a few minutes before and
placed it on the green slope. Others pulled
the stray pieces of flesh from amidst the
rods, bars and wheels of the engine and
washed the splotches of blood from the
sleepers and rails. One old fellow lifted the
severed fingers from the slag, counting each
one loudly and carefully as if some weighty
decision hung on the correct tally of the dead
man’s fingers. .. .The face'was unrecognis-
able as a human face. A thin red sliver of
flesh lying on the ground looked like a tongue.
Probably the man’s teeth in contracting had
cut the tongue in two. ...
A book such as this would be a liberal edu-
cation to any good, rich Christian.
J*
All Men are Ghosts, by L. P. Jacks (Wil-
liams and Norgate, per Sydney Book Club),
affords entertainment. Jacks treats spooks
with understanding and humor. His collec-
tion of stories displays a keenly intelligent
mind at play in the misty regions of psychical
research. One story, “The Hole in the
Water-Skin,” is an Arabian Nights Enter-
tainment, done with marvellous metaphysical
skill. Herein the twin worlds of this life
and the next are intermingled in a wondrous
narrative of twin personalities. The hero is
many persons, for his many past existences
impinge upon his consciousness, until the
reader cannot identify him as the same per-
son for three pages running. The explana-
tion is given at the conclusion ; “Death and
forgetting are one, and the memory of dying
perishetli like a dream. But some there are
to whom Allah hath appointed a station at
the place of passage and set as watchmen at
the intermingling of the worlds. These pass
to and fro over the bridges, gathering tidings
from forgotten realms; and much of the
majesty and worth that escapeth the common
sort is apparent unto them.” This story, is
a masterpiece in a rare genre where there
have been few masterpieces.
But for the flavor of Jacks’ rich humor
“Panhandle and the Ghosts” must be read.
Panhandle lives in a haunted house and
promises the author to introduce him to a
spook. In the end Panhandle introduces —
himself. His point of view is delightful. We
don’t think spooks real: the spooks don't
think us real. Panhandle explains;—
“Belief in the existence of beings like
yourself is regarded among the ghosts as
betokening a want of mental balance. A
ghost who should venture to assert that
you, for example, were real, would certainly
risk his reputation, and if he held a scientific
professorship or an ecclesiastical appoint-
ment he would be sneered.at by his juniors
and made the victim of some persecution. J
may tell you incidentally that the ghosts
have among them a Psychical Research So-
ciety which has been occupied for many years
in investigating the reality of the inhabitants
of this planet. By the vast majority of
ghosts the proceedings of the Society are
viewed. with indifference, and the claim,
which is occasionaly made, that communica-
tion has been established with the beings
whom we know as mien is treated with con-
tempt. The critics point to the extreme
triviality of the alleged communications from
this world. They say that nothing of the
least importance has ever come through from
the human side, and are wont to make merry
over the imbecility and disjointed nonsense
of the messages reported by the mediums ;
for you must understand that there are
mediums on that side as on this. Some time
ago two questions, purporting to came from
this world, reached the ghosts. One was,
‘What will be the price of Midland preferred
on Jan. 1, 1915?’ The other, ‘Will it be a
boy or a girl?’ For months a committee of
ghostly experts has been investigating these
communications... .The conclusion most fav-
ored at the moment is that the messages are
garbled quotations from an eminent poet
among the ghosts.”
Panhandle adds that a friend of his, who
disbelieves in the existence of spirits, is him-
self undergoing investigation by the ghosts.
“Some assert that he is a low form of mental
energy which has managed to get astray in
the universe. Others declare that he is a
putrid emanation from some kind of matter
which science has not yet identified, with-
out consciousness, but by no means with-
out odor. They allege that they have walked
through him!”
The spook world is populated, according to
Panhandle, with an immense variety of
ghosts. Not only do characters created bv
genius in literature have a separate ghostly
existence, but you may meet Ideas of every
variety-—you may even meet your own ideas,
in which case politeness will suggest to you
to refrain from claiming to be the author of
them. “A notable instance is that of Pro
fessor Gunn, who wrote the famous treatise
to prove the non-existence of God. The
potent ideas projected in the course of that
work have long enjoyed an independent being
of their own in the spiritual world ; and it
may interest you, n od Professor Gunn, to
learn that these ideas of his have formed
themselves into a society whose principal
tenet is that there is no such being as Pro-
fessor Gunn. They regard him alternatively
as a sun-myth or an exploded fiction.” -
Delightful fooling, with a meaning behind.
The Psychical Research Society should be
grateful for so skilful an argument in ics
favor.
Oliver Onions is making a habit of trip-
lets. Once again he starts out with what
is presumably a trilogy. Two volumes have
already been published : Two Kisses and A
Crooked Mile (both by Methuen, per
Dymock’s Library), and the latter book
nicely ends on a problem of incompatibility
of temperaments that surely foretells the
third member of the family. In these two
volumes Onions is delightfully concerned
with what may be called the futurist gene-
ration. His heroine and her associates are
ultra-modern. They know all about Galton
and Weininger and the chromosome: they
are specially enthusiastic about the chromo-
some. Amory, the young art student who
is twice kissed, is a charming eugenic prig.
All her friends, including the young man
whom she ultimately marries without emo-
tion, discuss sexual subjects, the suffragette
movement, the relations of the sexes, the
chemistry of birth, with harmless and in-
genuous frankness —especially sexual sub-
jects.
Amory and Cosimo knew each other
altogether too well, were too beautifully
“pals” to look upon each other emotionally.
“Mind you, I don’t deny what’s called
‘love’ altogether. I suppose it does serve
some such purpose as the perfume does to
the flower. The perfume attracts insects,
and insects do fertilise some flowers. So
love has its place. But what I do want to
know is, is it going to be allowed to sup-
plant plain reason and common sense? I
say no. There ought to be a State Mating-
season. They can do it about fishing and
game; why not about love?”
However, there is one sane person in this
collection of futurist freaks. Dorothy con-
fesses : “I like being a man’s plaything—•
there! I don’t mind one little bit being a
chattel — there! And I think it would be
perfectly ripping being property, as long as
you belonged to the right person !”
The story is brilliantly written, with an
uncanny insight into the mind of the new,
or chromosome, species of woman ; and the
background, usual in Onions, of the work-
ings of commercial advertisement, is equally
modern. Yet Onions fails at the last to keep
us liking his heroine; she takes herself too
seriously—and Onions hid begun by taking
her too seriously. In the sequel, where
Amory and Cosimo have married and
logically develop their crude imaginations
by founding a freak paper devoted to “the
Cause,” Onions turns on Amory and rends
her. In the first book she was the heroine,
delightful in spite of her foolishness; in
the second book she is a mere fool, a butt
for the author’s bitter ridicule. The collec-
tion of earnest advocates of their various
nice little utopias that Amory gathers about
her is described with delicious gravity. And
the mental separation of husband and wife
becomes at last so wide that silly Amory
decides to leave him for the other man. But
Amory’s adventure comes to failure, and
husband and wife are left alone to make
the effort to solve the problem of living
together again. The result of that heroic
experiment Oliver Onions is doubtless de-
vising now.
Both books are admirably written. Be-
neath the bubbles of his iridescent humor
there flows the steady stream of the author’s
serious intention.
&
William J. Locke continues to lessen in
importance. I-lis decline is slow, but steady.
The Fortunate Youth (Lane, per George
Robertson) is thin, sentimental, impossible.
His hero is a child of the slums, extraordi-
narily beautiful, who cherishes a dream of
marrying a princess, and by simply having
faith in his dream, achieves that rather mean
ideal. His progress up the social scale is
helped at every turn by the hand of chance.;
but Locke’s delightful style almost makes the
reader believe in his impossibilities. It is
Little Lord Fauntleroy done by a cleverer
hand.
• • I — :
Owing to the number of entries forwarded
in response to our modest request for “The
Creed of an Australian Girl,” and to the
pressure on our limited space, the announce-
ment of the result of this little competition
is deferred.
The latest publications of the useful Home
University Library include a geological con-
sideration of The Growth of Europe, Chaucer
and His Times, an historical review of The
Church of England, and an appreciation of
the work and influence of William Morris.
The contents of On His Majesty's Service,
a stirring story of Van Diemen’s Land, by
Roy Bridges, include “a nymph with sap-
phire eyes,” “a masked rider,” “crossed
swords” and “the breaking of the gang.”
Adventure, an historical background, bush-
rangers and sentiment all up to the N.S.W.
Bookstall shilling standard.


A
<a
ANTHONY HORDERNS’for FASHION and ECONOMY
Antt o^
Horderns
rp
aT"
n
w
|T>
m
A/3
/S/6
76
37/0
m.
759
'-7-37
2.9/6
505
42/-
27/6
THK New Winter Coats and
Robe Costumes illustrated
on this page|; present excep-?
\\
tional opportunities to ladies
who desire to exercise economy
in conforming to the prevailing
modes. The garments are
smartly cut and perfectly
finished, and the materials an
trimmings are good quality.]
- ,i
Many other smart styles are’
illustrated ill our Winter
Fashion Portfolio. Write for
a copy, post free on request.
h
NEW WINTER COATS
No. 16.—Smart, Seven-eighth-length Coat, of
Black Vicuna Cloth, straight cut back, large Collar and
Revers faced Silk and trimmed Black Cable Braid 37/6
Similar style, No. 2098, Collar edged Bengalinc Silk 33/6
Also same design, No. 1607, Black Cloth Coat, Collar and
llevers of Self, edged double rows of Silk Braid.. 29/6
No. Al3B3. —Navy Vicuna Cloth Coat, seven-eighth
length, double Collar and Revers effectively trimmed Black
Silk Military Braid, fastening to side with large Frog
Ornament 18/6
Similar style, \o. 1555, in Navy Cheviot Serge, trimmed
B™'' l 17/6
No. 505.—Model Full-length Coat, of Corduroy
1 elour Cloth, stylish tube hack and inset Sleeves, large
( ollar and double lleyers, piped Suede Velvet to tone, in
soft shades of Tan, Mole, Purple and Brown 42/-
No. 759. Becoming Coat, of soft Blanket* Fleece,
smart back, with cross-cut diagonal fold at foot
and belted seams, circular Collar and long Revers of Self,
finished Buttons, in shades of Golden Brown, Purple, Mole
and Dark Brown
No. 1437.—rIJseful Travelling Coat, of Diagonal
Blanket Tweed, Raglan sleeve, straight-cut hack, Coat
Collar of Suede Cloth to tone, Revers of Self, in smart
shades of Grey, Saxe, Tan, Rose, Mole 27/6
Same design, ~.Nyi. 1523, in Grey, Navy, Light and Dark
Brown, Diagonal Blanket Tweed 29 /6
SMART ROBE COSTUMES
No. 22958.—Dressy Robe Costume, of soft Black
Satm Cliarmer.se, slightly draped Skirt, Bodice relieved
with large round Collar of Black Guipure, kilted Lace and
Net frills and fine Silk Braid 89/6
No. 2409.—81ack Resilda Rohe, Bodice cut in new
stole effect with Kimono Sleeves, finished folded waist Belt,
bow and strappings of Black Satin, Vest and Cuffs of Black
Silk Guipure, fastens in front with smart White and
Black edged buttons 4-Q/fi
No \ 4 ,? 10 r -Black Paiiette Silk Robe,' ‘lias American
< L> ° ; al ; ' B-ont and Cuffs of Guipure, front fastening, folded
Belt finished ends at hack. Skirt has shaoed lap seams
and groups of small pleats at foot * sttr/_
No * 2420.—81ack Crepe de Chine Robe, has Rag-
lan Bodice with long Sleeves, V front of Ivorv Crepe dc
Chine, finished buttons, front fastening, Sleeves finished
loop Buttes f .° Ur - pieCe S ' dlt ’ lap “7!
No. 23071—Smart Robe, of fashionable' Black Brochff
Silk, small turn-down Collar, Cuffs and waist belt of plain
Satin Paßette, Vest of Black Silk Guipure and White
pleated Lace frilling at neck and sleeves 79/6
22958
89/6
2909
49/6
2410
55/-
mmm
2420
72/6
23071
79/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKneld Hill.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


ĥ
fg
WINCHESTER
ĝh
.22 Caliber Cartridges
Different makes of cartridges look very-
much alike but you don’t buy cart-
ridges for looks. What you want is
efficiency. That’s why you should
buy Winchester Cartridges. Win-
chester .22 Caliber Cartridges, either
black, “Lesmok” or smokeless pow-
der, are loaded by automatic machin-
ery. This insures uniform charges of
powder and properly seated bullets,
which are essential for accurate shoot-
ing. Winchester smokeless cartridges
are loaded with Greaseless bullets,
which are clean to handle and
prevent loss of powder strength.
It is easy to be a penny wise and
a pound foolish in buying cartridges.
Buy The W Brand And You
Will Get The Kind You Want
Trade Mark
gh
Ah! The
Pleasure and
Convenience
of Motor-
Boating!
Don’t envy the
possessor of a
costly motor-boat.
Enjoy your outings
s. mk
afloat —dispense with the drudgery of rowing; be comfortable, be speedy
by installing the simple, small, yet strong
VA, 2,
3/4 hp.
EVINRUDE
Detachable Rowboat Motor
The Evinrude Motor is compact
and easily transported. It will drive
any rowboat 8 miles an hour. 25,000
Evinrude Motors are in use in salt
and fresh water. 9 Governments have
adopted it for economy and service.
Steered by the l propeller—no redder re-
quired, but supplied if desired. Reversible;
battery ignition or MAGNETO, and auto-
matic lubrication. Fully guaranteed.
Descriptive Booklet from Controlling Rep-
resentative for Australasia & New Zea-
land, H. A. GODDARD, Dept. D-12, 8*
Queen Street, Melbourne; Dept. D-12, 19V
Vickery’s Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney:
Dept. D-12, 3 Australasia Chambers, Queen Street.
Brisbane. Bocal Agents: H. Kennedy, Dept. D-12, Broome, W.A.;
C. J. Ellershaw & Co., Dept, D-12, Perth, W.A. Agents required
lotted territory. Apply, H. A. GODDARD, Brisbane.
' !
The Best Pencil (or Manifolding Work is
U&C. HARDTMUrU'S
nn
COPYING PENCIL
So smooth, it writes without effort; so well made
that the fine point gives a beautifully clear impress io a
without tearing the paper ; so strong, it does not bre ik
under pressure ; so durable, it easily outlasts 3 or 4
ordinary makes ; so good that you ought to use it.
In 2 degrees—Medium & Hard. Sold by Stationers, &c-, everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd., Koh-i-noor House, LONDON, Eng.
(Australia : 350. George Street. Sydney.) W itt for list, post free.
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LOHE HAND
The National
flonthly, 6d.
Over 100 Awards
in Open Competition
during the last few months have been won on
B.S.A.
31 h.p. Motor Bicycles
often beating high powered machines
up to 8 h.p.
Copy of Telegram recently received :
“ B.S.A. 3 Yz h.p. fastest on time and formula, beating 8 h.p.
twins. Tunbridge Wells and District Club Speed Trials.”
Carey.
Copy of Letter recently received :
•• In the unlimited class, Blackburn M.C.C. Hill Climb, the
B.S.A. 3 y 2 h.p. beat several higher powered Motor Cycles,
including 8 h.p. twins." H. Walsh.
fgh
Catalogue and full partic-
ulars of B.S.A. Motor
Bicycles post free from
D. Y. RENNIE.
(representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADHE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop lyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY NORD€RN SONS LTD
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium.
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRADE MARK
fgh
fgh
SPLENDID 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra long range.,
Accurate and., reliable. Holiday Price, 17/C. D.8.8.L. GUN, fitted with
Greener cross‘bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified steel barrels,
walnut stock, "fpistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN EXCELLENI
KILLER. Holiday Price, £3/10/- D.8.8.L. GUN, choke and modified steel
barrels. Government Tested. THE FARMER’S FRIEND. Special Price,
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 22 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice and
light. A very accurate little weapon. TIIE YOUTH’S FAVORITE. Holiday
Price, 14/6. CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent ejector. Takes .22
long, .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best sellers. Holiday
Price, 18/6. Write for Our Catalogue.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Largest Importers of Arms and Ammunition in the Commonwealth
24-2-4 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Pre-eminent
as the Queen of Dress Fabrics is the
LOUIS
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day—
yet sold at a price within the
reach of ail.
DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L’O'LM'S
—The Youngsters
enjoy mowing with
DAWKS’
“SHEFFIELD” MOWER
Look here, this “Sheffield” is a splendid
Mower, costing only 24/-. Made of fine
material, superbly finished, and possessing
the advantages of dearer makes without the
price. We tell you, you needn’t pay more
to get mower satisfaction. Runs like a bike,
needs the least attention. A clean short
cutter.
Other Styles from
15/- to 40/-
A
&
46Bmm ASS
33
.?V
*4 llliiilill
P
m
:
“ i--
illll
s.
asA.
The House
for Mowers
and
Windmills.
JOHN DANKS & SON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
Sydney and Melbourne.
324 Pitt
St., near
Liverpool
St., Sydney.
JASON
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
Kriischen
7 Salts
Mow sold by Chemists throughout the Commonwealth. I
Whole >ale Importers:
H. &W. GREAR, 257, Clarence Street, SYDNEY I


Famished
Hair Cells
Hair-failure is due to starved roots and cells.
Ail the legion of hair troubles vanish if you
strike at the root. It is the same in every ill
—you must go right to the heart of the trouble.
What the grey, languishing, dropping hairs
call for
Is an adequate food—a. real nutriment
ROWLAND MACASSAR OIL gives an
immediate new vitality to the feeble roots and
the “ feeding ” cells beneath them. It produces
a soft, silky sheen and texture; a full, luxuriant
growth, radiating a true natural hair-health
Softly perfumed with Otto of rtoses. Supplied
in Gold Tint for fair hair.
ROWLAND’S
Macassar Oil!
is sold by Stores, Chem sts, and
ROWLANDS, 67, Hatton Garden,
London.
Avoid cheap imitations with the same
or similar name.
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
ĥ
, Packed Free. All charges Prepaid to your
Port direct from our Factory. Highest-
grade British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears,
, Flyer or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
(LATEST
MODELS
£ 3.10 to £9
I Tyres and accessories half usual prices.
fifiFNTQ wantert in each district. Write
mu l ii i u at once, using- sufficient postage,
£T Art Catalogue and our
special Offer on sample machine.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY.
Best. A 282 LIVERPOOL.
A G P,^ T „fp*r mead cycles—
t Book Arcade, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND. ALL MODELS
LETTERS COPIED WHILE WRITING
(in ink) by using: your own Letter-naner
with this Book. You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing you
secure a perfect letter and a
perfect copy. There is no '
fgh
siffn of copying. 400 octavo Sin. x sin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/200 Book, size 10ft x
post free 4/6; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
tor 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies Bin. x sin., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetie Ink Paper 'which
produces this result, free if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetie, Leicester, England.
Zanetie goods obtainable from Sands & McDougall',
Ltd., Collins Street West, Melbourne, and Branches
at Adelaide and Perth.
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES'
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you’ll have the skin healed and healthv
quicker than with any other ointment on earth'.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
tin now. 1/6. posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
2] Wickham Street, Valley. Brisbane.
EIEY
.CARTRIDGES^
I Always Reliable ]
ELEY Smokeless'
A cerise Cartridge
loaded with ELEY
(42 gr.) Smokeless
Powder and 1 Joz. shot.
Millions sold annually.
ELEY ‘E. B.JVitro’
Cartridge case loaded
with Schtiltze Pow-
der or any other
standard Smokeless
Powder.
ELEY ‘Fourten’
Loadedwith ELEY Smokeless Powder
ELEY '3BO Rsvolver
BLEY *22 Long Rifle
‘ E ’ Brand.
ELEY '22 Rim
Black or Smokeless.
Agent: ALBERT ADAMS, 420, George
Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
Wholesale: Eley Bros., Ltd., London
fghfgh
Unequalled as a Specific for COUGHS & COLDS,
INFLUENZA, HRONCHITIS, SORENESS and
TIGHTNESS of the CHEST, WHOOPING
COUGH, SORE or RELAXED THROAT.
i'
I
%
.
I
1
301 Queen Street, Brisbane
Messrs. Bonnington & Co.
Dear Sirs, —For over 20 years “Bonning-
ton’s Irish Moss” has been an unfailing
remedy in my household. For Coughs and
Colds and Chest Ailections generally 1 con-
sider there is no better remedy than “Bonnimrtnn's
Irish Moss.” Yours truly, ‘W. J. C. YA.TFS.
De sure you \jfre,% 30iSiNI/SC'iTON’S
m
RUNRENNESS Cured
FI
m * n r. v . cure the mOKt violent drunkard SECRETLY
A 1 HOME. GOLDEN SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, arid
can lc taken by the most delicate person of either sex. it
~ ~ totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a lasting
anupathy to alcohol in a few weeks Many cases are cured in a few days with
this treatmept. Send 2d. stamp for EREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
SPECIFIC CO, (Dept. B 2012), 94 Pitt Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
fgh
THIN WOMEN!
What is more pitiable than a pretty woman whose neck, arms and
scraggy chest destroy her every chance of being really charming?
Nothing gives charm to a woman so much as does a full, well-rounded
perfectly-developed figure. If you lack it, science will enable you to’
obtain it.
WHEN you look into the mirror and your
hollow cheeks, thin neck and scrawny
arms mock even you, what effect do
you suppose they have on those with whom
you mix socially? A woman's chief charm
is a well-rounded figure and full bosom. With
these, thin arms and hollow cheeks are a
rarity.
If your bust lacks development, and you
are scraggl.v and attenuated, we will 'advise
you free and gladly as to how you may im-
prove your figure and beautify your bust.
We are only too pleased to tell vou the
secret, for we know it cannot fail, and that
in a few weeks you will be happier, healthier
and more sought after socially than in your
present undeveloped, emaciated condition.
Thousands of women suffering the ravages
of ill-health have sought and accepted this ad-
vice, and to-day are models of womanly de-
velopment and examples of perfect health.
The same success awaits your call. In the
wake of attenuation follow such complaints
as constipation, indigestion, bilious head-
aches, internal functional derangements, etc.
As your development advances and weight im-
proves, these gradually disappear and perfect
health results.
Every case is accepted under a guarantee
to refund fee if satisfactory results do not
follow the use of the treatment. SEND FOR
SPECIMEN COPY OF GUARANTEE.
Pleased Beyond
Expression.
Spring Hill,
Queensland.
The Manager.
m
£4"
Dear Sir, —Words fail to express my
gratitude for what your wonderful
remedy has done for me. Since taking
Flesh-Food my health is much better,
my appetite is keen, I enjoy my meals,
and I can see that they nourish me
properly now. My weight increased
nicely, and my bust has enlarged by
four inches, and has not stopped de-
veloping yet. My hips are now nicely
rounded, and my health is splendid.
Yours faithfully, ROSE WAGNER.
FREE SAMPLE. FREE BOOK.
Send a 2d. stamp and let us tell you the'
secret free, and also send you a free sample
of treatment. No matter where or how far
away you live you can be properly treated by
post. Write to-day. Lady attendant to callers.
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO.,
1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY. [18203
THE CAN-MAKING INDUSTRY!
SANITARY—SIMPLE
EFFECTIVE—RAPID.
The Entire Top Open.
fgh
pN J tRI RISING PRESERVE GANNERS in every part of the world
liave eoine to realise that the old, slow, unsanitary method of
solete CtUl sea^ln " cans hand with poisonous solders is ob-
. . ri ’h at is v '’ h , y th , e MAX AMS SANITARY CANNING MACHINERY
is being used by the world’s leading canners. If vou are using cans
lor packing preserves, fruits, vegetables, or in fact any food product, the
SANITARY, SOLDERLESS, HERMETICALLY SEALED CANS
made by these machines will save you time, money and labor.
bodfes' ltin al h l io-h 0 ;n?| 8 A “ tO . ,nJ V- U Double Seamers will seal can tops on
bodies. 1 ill. hl = h and 2m. m diameter up to 1 gallon and over The
scope in the range of possible cn mges is instantly appreciated
by ° F fuSSlng ’ or lllcChanica l skill required. Can be run
‘ These machines are I3Y NO MEANS confined to., anv PARTICULAR
CLASS of cans The operation of these Seamers is SIMPLE The
Y lhe rAN p C ° nve - ved to «« baseplate with the cover, and
DOHBLE 1 SE AM ° AN g g6S the r ° ners > making a CLEAN and tight
We Furnish Complete Outfit for Making These Cans.
For full particulars write to the
MAX AMS MACHINE CO.
MT. VERNON, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
OR THROUGH ANV EXPORT COMMISSION HOUSE.
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
Yo« Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post vou a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences."
Mr. Frank Ford (lilac kail P. 0., Q’lancl)
urit.es: “I was a heavy smoker for 60 years,
but after taking your treatment for V, days I
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 107 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
[2.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
' ture of The Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
ana cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
niS,«" AnPiiance that is not
TH*t SSRro™« '0 WEAR, but one
COMMnnm HOE P A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
®*“ d 0U Particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
»J. lll . CUSHION APPLIANCE
** you Dave tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW-
YET 'iSnmrm?® BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
»iiV f \„i.- TED It does away altogether
Uithi 1, 'S 8 ®teel aprin 8 a Chafing
imn b,l i n u dei 'straps. The pad is made of
FIRM pmci, D 'r hlch exarts a GENTLE ye‘
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
J.o show what we think of the Appliance.
{ „ E G,VE A FREE TRIAL
th.- e ro n r M, ,n » tft , t ? ce- Price is within
PERFFrT* I c°i f cc 1 V/S?>?A yon ask for more ?
FROM C O MFORT . and SECURITY.
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE
CESCMmvr 0 ®» n i,n n h,^ mRn * Children.
PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
340 Collms-st., Melbourne, Vic.
SStd"," 1 “I
Reading R nl o n ßHr £ sri Australasian
g Str- •* r &'2 u £&A wf t „^
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Lagoon.
We crept through reed-beds wet with dew,
The sun went down in gold ;
Hoisting her round triumphantly
The moon showed red and bold.
The unseen sea upon our right
In splendid turmoil broke;
The spindrift, driving ceaselessly,
Was vague as drifting smoke.
The grass-tree lances spiked our flesh,
The brushed ferns wet our knees;
The she-oaks, crooning steadily,
Stirred in the late salt breeze.
Thus, pushing on with velvet tread
Reneath the lavish moon,
We saw, spread wide, spread gloriously,
All gold, the still lagoon.
And on its breast (a picture this
Recalling old-time Dons
And Spanish galleons at sea)
A squadron of black swans.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Almond Blossoms.
So, once again, the almond blossoms blow,
Spreading, in mounded fields of sun-kissed
snow,
Just as they did, Nannie, a year ago.
Yes ; but, last year, you had no eyes for me,
More than the blossom on the almond tree;
You were so light of foot, so fancy-free.
Rut, came a time when the white blossoms
fell;
And, how and why it happened, who can tell?
Sometimes you lingered, going to the well.
And, later, came the long, sweet summer
days ;
Ah me, what tricks that summer ardor plays:
M e often wandered by the self-same ways.
And soon the almonds ripened on the bough :
Fell a twin kernel, and we made a vow ;
l wonder, could you match this loneling now.
Then came the winter; but we knew no chill,
In our rock arbor, on the sunny hill :
Our fire’s unscattered embers are there still.
Now, once again, the almond blossoms blow,
And there are lights upon that love-lit snow,
That 1 had never seen, a year ago.
Majorca, Spain.
J. LINDO-WEBB.
The Cup Bearer.
Faint through the dawning light I see
Each morn a vision of delight,
A smile that hovers over me,
Two dark, soft eyes serenely bright,
While half-a-pint of steaming tea
Droops low from fingers fairy light.
It is a vision mixed with dream,
Ethereal, vague and wrapped in mist,
Like that Endymion by the stream
Reached out his drowsy lips and kist—
A cup, a hint of fragrant steam,
Two ear-rings large with amethyst.
The east is still with dusks a-blur.
The milkman clatters down the street,
The boarders make no sound or stir
Their sodden morning chop to greet.
’Tisthen my world grows full of her
Who comes on ministering feet.
I never see her otherwhere.
I never hear men speak her name.
She makes no sound upon the stair,
She seems a thing demure and tame,
And in the lustre of her hair
I read no thought of wrong or blame.
She comes to me in ghostly wise,
A spirit presence, subtle, thin ;
And yet the smiling of her eyes
To joy and gladness seems akin ;
Some person of large enterprise
Those lips to commerce sweet might win.
But enterprise is far from me,
While yet the sun his lazy head,
Under the blanket of the sea,
Keeps huddled in his morning bed ;
And e’er I i-oiise my spirit she
Who ghostlike came has dreamlike fled.
I sip the nectar she has brought,
And in its liquid freshness feel
My earliest emotions caught
In such a fragrance as may heal
The wounds some thoughtless bottle wrought
At friendship’s traitorous appeal.
Then, turning on the other side,
I walk the paths of dream anew.
And see Clothilda’s eyes grow wide
Or Cissy’s lashes wet with dew;
I kiss kind fortune as a bride
And pleasure takes my lOU.
I drowse and drowse, but dreams resist
The fancy that would shape them whole.
Clothilda’s lips will not be kist.
I cannot waken Cissy’s soul,
For ear-rings large with amethyst
Of every fleeting thought take toll.
The morning trams begin to rave,
I rise and toss the night away,
For it is meet that I should shave
To greet clear-faced the rushing day;
Nauffht of my fancies lingers save
One empty cup upon a tray.
But well I know that I shall see
Next morn that vision of delight,
A smile that hovers over me,
Two dark, soft eyes, serenely bright,
While half-a-pint of steaming tea
Droops low from fairy fingers light.
Yet has a whisper come to me.
A fatal word my dreams to dash,
A murmur fraught with agony.
To turn my fancy’s flame to ash—
They say that she who brings my tea
Is also she who cooks my hash!
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


fghf
On your way to the theatre, between
the acts, or, for that matter, any time
at all, there's no smoke you'll enjoy
better than a .♦ *
aron
CIGARETTE
'The Sarony QUALITY will please you, and the Sarony
FLAVOR will delight .you.
In Turkish or Virginia. All Leading Tobacconists.
Manufactured by NICOLAS SARONY & CO., New Bond Street, London, W,
For Country
Residenoes
and
Hotels,
“L
Public Hails,
and
Country
Stores.
“Lister-Bruston” Automatic Electric Lighting Plant.
This Plant (as illustrated complete) generates electricity automatically. The Engine and
Dynamo start themselves as soon as the lights are switched on.
The Plant is low in cost, self-contained, and thus, as a tenant’s fixture, can be moved from place
to place.
May we show YOU how to get better light at less cost ? Write to us about it to-day. Plants
are delivered practically ready for connecting up to House Wiring.
AGENTS: N.S.W.—W. G. WATSON & CO., LTD., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney,
VIC. —SUTHERLAND & ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND-WINCHCOMBE, CARSON LTD. Creek Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA-CLUTTERBUCK BROS., Adelaide.
m
gh
FORMULA OF THE UYERPOOt THROAT HOSPITAL
ANTISEPTIC THROAT
Pastilles
These wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles act like a charm in
keeping the voice and throat in perfect condition.
Used by Leading Singers throughout the world.
The celebrated Madame Tetrazzini writes:—“l thank you for the
boxes of Evans’ Pastilles sent me, which I find excellent and
efficacious.”
Ask for Evans’ Pastilles and see you get them. P-2
fghfgh
A Sure Moustache=Grower.
Men who wish to cultivate a smart appearance should develop a hand-
some moustache.
CAPILLARINE
is a sure moustache grower. It never fails —no matter how” poor and
weak the hair growth may be. Capillarine does not Cause any skin
trouble —its use cannot, be detected—results are sure.
TRY A JAR TO-DAY—IO/6 post fi*ee.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, w6rn at night, shapes the* moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each, Post Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654- George Street, Sydney
Established 30 Years.
*»th
e^Ew£P
LAGER
Possesses distinctive qualities—it
is a delightfully refreshing, in-
vigorating and nourishing Lager
—valuable as a food for Nursing
Mothers, Invalids, etc.—apart from
its high-grade merit as a light
beverage.
OBTAINABLE at all FIRST-CLASS
CLUBS, HOTELS, RESTAURANTS,
etc.
V
MACINTOSHES S OILSKINS
The “DERBY” Macintosh
(as illustrated).
in Olive, Fawn, Grey & Brown Shades,
3 51-
Oilskin
most protective coat for
RIDING, DRIVING, MOTORING
and WALKING.
MADE IN TWO WEIGHTS.
“DU GONG-WATERSHED,” light
make .' 32/6
“RA INBOW-WATERSHED,” stout
make 257-
Ask your storekeeper for “Watershed”
oilskins, and if he does not stock, them
send your order direct to us. We Pay
Carriage. Patterns sent on request.
“TITAN” HOT WATER BAGS
fgh
WARM COMFORTS FOR COLD NIGHTS, GUARANTEED TWO SEASONS
30 xS .. 6/9. IVith cover ..7/9. 12x8 .. 7/6. With cover .. 8/6.
Send for a Copy of our New Illustrated List, No. 35. Post Free.
RUBBER CO. LTD.
270 George Street, Sydney.
105 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
307 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
BEST FOR LINOLEUMS
When polishing your FLOORS
and FURNITURE you will fine]
SHI - NOLEUM
the best Polish to use —without
any effort you can give them a fine
high-class finish—the shine lasts
for weeks—it preserves the Lino-
leum —and is very economical.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.—Every genuine
tin has the name on the top and bottom.
gh
ĥgfgh
€
The Chinese use this Symbol to express completeness. It stands for some-
thing that is absolutely self-contained and complete.
IT REMINDS US OF
TABOR
MOULDING
MACHINES
V■■ '
POWER ROLE-OVER MOULDING MACHINE, WITH POWER DRAFT.
Vibrator is attached to swing frame, which assists in making a perfect draw, the
main object of these Roll-over Machines.
Write to us for particulars of Power and Hand Squeezing Machine. Jarring
Machines, etc., or tell us what you want to make, and we will advise von the most
suitable and economical machine.
Sole Agents for Australasia—
BENSON BROTHERS LIMITED,
51-53 Druitt Street, Sydney; 60 Queen Street, Melbourne
WE CARRY A FULL STOCK OF ENGINEERS’ MACHINE TOOLS.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 35. —IS o. 3792.
THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 1914.
I'juck (Jo.
MUNRO SAMSON AND THE PHILISTINES.
The Philistines took him and put out his eyes....and they set him between two pillars.....and all the lords of the Philistines were there. And Samson
took hold of the two middle pillars upon which the house stood. And he bowed himself with all his might, and the house fell upon the lords of the Philis
tines.—Judges xvi.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
i City 2389.
TELEPHONES: { Cit " 23 , J0 .
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
£1 6s. 6d. per Annum, including Special
Christmas Number, post paid.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings and Sixpence Sterling you can have
The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves ) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. Thb right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence" col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or.
say. SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs.
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communication s
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in IHack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Jjljl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific Netvs Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewell, Utah, US.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego.
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
i9th Street, San Francisco, Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt.-: —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — lK. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Not De.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tas
mania and New Zealand, and on account of Messrs
Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd.. Adelaide —at
i/6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6jh'n.
x IJ/in., and gelatine transparencies will be for •
warded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired.
Pcs'age Bates
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) :■ —Throughout the Commonwealth, New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz., fd.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 160 z., Id. Only one newspaper should be en
closed in each packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., B%oz.
to 10oz., 2id.; lOoz. to IZoz., 3d.; elsewhere, Hoz.,
Id., and Id. each additional 2 oz.
THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 1914.
LAW REFORM
Some time ago the Holman Government of
N. S. Wales evolved its long-promised mea-
sure of law reform. As is the custom in such
cases, the scheme was sent to the Bar Council
for criticism, before being submitted to Par-
liament. The Bar Council’s opinion of the
Bill can only be surmised. All that is cer-
tain is that the body referred it to a sub-
committee, which immediately turned it
down as impracticable and revolutionary and
hopeless in pretty well every respect. Yet
unless the scheme of reform is revolutionary
it will not be enough. There is hardly a
single direction in which the law administra-
tion of N. S. Wales is not years behind the
time. Conservative England possessed a
Criminal Appeal Court before the N. S.
Wales Legislature had begun to think about
one. The death penalty is still prescribed
in .N.S.W. for more offences than in any other
part of the civilised world ; tha. it is rarely
carried out is only to say that, mblic senti-
ment is in advance of the letter of the law.
In no other State is the procedure in civil
actions so idiotically cumbersome and in-
volved or so costly to litigants. The object
of the English Judicature Acts was chiefly to
simplify litigation and give the poor man a
fairer deal. The authors laid themselves out
to cut down the cynically elaborate processes,
of use to no one but the lawyers, which led up
in the old days to the hearing of a Common
Law or Chancery suit; and after much striv-
ing they more or less succeeded. In the last
quarter of a century the rules of the Judica-
ture Acts have been embodied in the legal
systems of a number of States outside their
country of origin—for example, Ireland has
adopted them, and Victoria and South Aus-
tralia have followed suit. But N. S. Wales
has held aloof. It remains one of the few
places where, in what one may call the
higher branches of litigation, the man of
moderate means, or no means at all, labors
under an almost fatal handicap. It is not
possible in any newspaper article to discuss
all or half or a quarter or a fiftieth part of
the legal reforms which N. S. Wales so badly
requires. But a couple of them which have
had little attention from legislators, and none
at all in a formal way from the Bar, may be
mentioned.
* * * *
The early juryman was a senior thegn, or
a knight, or a householder, according to his
period. Until quite recently, as history
goes, a man’s intelligence was gauged by his
possessions. Now, education, which was for-
merly the monopoly of the Church and the
rich, has always been regarded as a neces-
sary adjunct of the judicial mind. A result
is that in England the very poor are
specifically debarred from serving on
juries, while throughout Australia they hardly
ever get a chance to do so. The legitimate
grievances of Australian jurors are of several
sorts. The manual laboring classes are prac-
tically never summoned on juries at all. And
yet there is nothing more desirable, when a
man is on his trial, or defending his reputa-
tion, than that some at least of the arbiters
of his fate shall be of his own class, and
hence in a position to accurately weigh the
of his actions. A backblocks
Hayseed might be scandalised at the proceed-
ings of Manly Beach on a Sunday in sum-
mer, but that' would not mean that the in-
terior of this continent is any more virtuous
than the sea-board. It is all a matter of
custom. The working-man accused, whose
fate it is in 99 cases out of a hundred to be
tried by a jury of shopkeepers, is highly liable
not to get an entirely fair deal—a circum-
stance which has come to be recognised in
England, where a deputation of trades
unionists waited recently on the Home Sec-
retary and asked that artisans and laborers
should be included among those eligible to
serve on juries. If wage-earners in Aus-
tralia have a grievance inasmuch as they
are not summoned often enough, the shop-
keeping classes have a right to complain that
they are mercilessly sweated in this respect.
Under the N. S. Wales Jury Act 1912 the
following are exempt from service: All mem-
bers of the Assembly and Council; all civil
servants, clergymen, barristers, solicitors
and their clerks, all judges, coroners and
stipendiary magistrates, all physicians, sur-
geons, chemists, schoolmasters, bank mana-
gers, cashiers and paying tellers. In short,
practically the whole of the professional class.
The effect is not detrimental to the members
of this class when they appear in the Courts,
since the social customs of the men who try
them, or their suits, are very similar to
their own. But the system does help to
cast a heavy burden on those who are neither
manual toilers nor professional men—namely,
the trading classes. Many of the statutory
exemptions have no basis in reason. Why,
for example, should a cashier in a bank be
freed from service, and the manager of a
big shipping firm forced to undertake this
duty? Why does not the State compel the
parson or priest to put his knowledge of
human nature at its service? And where is
the sense in dispensing from the job of serv-
ing on juries people like solicitors, who must
fail to make good in their calling if they
are not sound judges of a liar. The age of
proletariat illiteracy has gone by, and so
N. S. Wales is ready with a large and con-
tinuous supply of working-men jurors; and
as the epoch of class privilege is supposed to
be dead, there is no further reason why influ-
ential professional men should be discharged
from an obligation which petty traders are
forced to undertake.
* * * *
As things are at present, every litigant
in the higher courts has to employ two dis-
tinct sets of lawyers. A firm of solicitors
does one- part of the job, and a band of
barristers, varying in number according to
the bank account of the client, attends to
the rest of it. If a K.C. appears he has to
have a junior. In the event of his being
briefed, in a more important suit, or of his
wanting to play golf or go fishing, he does
not come to court. However, that does not
preclude him, according to the custom of
the profession, from drawing his fees. The
litigant is therefore in this position: he
loses the services of the K.C., and he is
liable to pay for the Iv C. all the same. He
is represented by a junior, who may know
little about the brief or be inexperienced in
court work, and he pays for the junior as
well. The average lawyer apparently can’t
see the injustice of this procedure. Lawyers
in N. S. Wales have been at it for too long.
And the same applies to the shameless
example of the “Government stroke,” which
a certain type of barrister presents when
the parties to any given suit have enough
money to keep him in court indefinitely, and
there are no other briefs awaiting him. In
nine cases out of ten one competent soli-
citor could efficiently perform the whole of
the Chamber and court work which is at
present undertaken with portentous slow-
ness and at vast expense by a drove or
covey of barristers. And even if the
attorney failed sometimes to do the work
as well, the cause of Justice would be served
better all round, since the fact of the cheaper
man being allowed to do barrister’s work
would enable many to seek legal redress
who. under present conditions, cannot even
think of so ruinously extravagant a ven-
ture. The amalgamation scheme is working
well in S. Australia, where both branches
of the profession have joined with the
Bench in an honest attempt to make a
success of it. The Victorian experience
has been less favorable, because there the
conservatism of the Law has been too much
for the law. An overwhelmingly powerful
Barrister’s Combine bovcotts. professionals
and socially, any member of the profession
who dares to act as a solicitor or to appear
in court without being instructed by a
solicitor. The Combine also boycotts any
solicitor who acts as a barrister. And
finally, the judges who are in whole-hearted
sympathy with the profession from which
they sprang, have declined to draw up rules
essential to the success of the amalgamation
arrangement; and it is notorious that they
look with a frigid eye on any solicitor who
so far forgets what they regard as his proper
place as to appear before them. In any
successful scheme for thg. amalgamation of
the legal professions ill N. S. Wales, it
would have to be insisted on by the Legis-
lature that there should be no combine to
defeat the intentions, of Parliament. Once
such a body got to work the new law would
automatically become useless.
* * ■* *
It goes without saying that the Holman
or any other Government which attempts
either of the above reforms, or for that
matter, any other serious attack on the
immemorial privileges which the “higher
branch” of the legal profession arrogates to
itself, can rely confidently on the hostility of
the Bar Council. No member of this body
would so much as consider the idea of bar-
risters and solicitors being made liable to
serve on juries; and the average bar coun-
cillor would as soon amalgamate with an
attorney as he would with a market-gar-
dener. There doesn’t- seem to be much
sense, under all the circumstances, in a
Government which is in earnest on the
question of law reform, submitting any pro-
jected measure on these lines to an institu-
tion which must be constitutionally incap-
able of taking an unbiassed view of it. The
proceeding is too much like asking a man
to agree to his own execution, and to sug-
gest the quickest and surest means of carry-
ing out the affair. The old-time practice
of consulting with the Bar Council might
accordingly be dropped. Let the Govern-
ment have the courage of its own Bill. Let
it not be discouraged by the prophecies of
widespread devastation and ruin that are
certain to be heaped on it by nearly every
member of the Bar and by most solicitors.
Cheap law is one of the necessities of a
democracy, and N. S. Wales will never get
the boon till its present legal system has
been pretty well revolutionised.
THE LIES THEY TELL ABOUT US.
A Bloemfontein paper printed the follow-
ing the other day, from an anonymous
correspondent who claimed to be fresh back
in Africa from Australia
My Australian experience opened my eyes. Here
you have a great country, free from most diseases,
with rich soil; enormous advantages. The policy of
Protection in Australia has neutralised all this, and
with the aid of this and other unnatural laws capital
is driven from the country and the people from the
land. The man on the land is overburdened with
taxes and is confronted with combines as well as
the greed of the middleman. .. .The agricultural out-
put, per head, was more ten years ago than it was
last year. . . .There is now no doubt that the Ameri-
can Meat Trust has got a leg in. These people are
spending £400,000 on meat works at the mouth of
the Brisbane River. They, are now paying up to
£l6 for good cattle, and they hold options on most
of the young stock in Queensland, including the
unborn calves. The Labor party undertook to smash
all combines, split up big estates and generally benefit
the worker and small man. With what result?
Combines have beaten the Government at every
turn.
The Bloemfouteib Friend swallowed it all
and maundered along at great length after
this fashion: —
A great deal of what he says will be realised at
once to be of real moment to Sou,th Africa —
especially to the farmer of this country. There are
two things particularly of which the South African
agriculturist should beware. The one is High Pro-
tection and the other is the dominance of the country
by the Labor party.
The only glimmerings of truth in the whole
hectic outbuist are the assertions that “the
American Meat Trust has got a leg in,” and
that other combines “have beaten the Gov-
ernment at every turn.” But these calamities
have occurred not owing to, the Australian
Labor party, but in spite of it. It has long
been recognised in Australia, hs in America,
that no effective anti-Trust legislation can
ever be put on the Statute-book so long as
the States completely control their
own internal trade and commerce.
Under the Federal system the entire
Commonwealth is at the mercy of any
one State which is sufficiently selfish to fos-
ter a big Trust in consideration of the money
which the latter is willing to lay out locally.
Twice the Australian Labor party has tried
to amend the Constitution, in such a way as
to give the Federal Parliament that power
to smash existing local combines and prevent
foreigners getting a “leg in.” Its efforts were
bitterly and successfully opposed on both
occasions by anti-Labor. The local apolo-
gists for the Trust, both in and out of Par-
liament, are never Laborites, but always
Conservatives, And, finally, Australia’s big-
gest Trusts are connected with, or had their
beginnings in, unprotected industries. The
forming of the Coal Vend had nothing to do
with fiscalism ; the Sugar Combine was or-
ganised under revenue-tariff conditions; and
it needed no duty on meat to bring the Beef
Trust to Queensland.
As regards the alleged damage done by
Protection to the prosperity of the Common-
wealth, the figures of the invaluable Ivnibbs
are informative. According to his last Year
Book (1901-1912), the total value of land
and buildings, plant and machinery used in
factories throughout the Commonwealth in-
creased between .1906 and 1911 from
£40.824,459 to £64,098,144. or at the rate of
£3,454,731 per annum. The value of the
output during 1911 was £133,156 560, as
against £107,501,758 in 1909 —which is the
first year in which it was possible to collect
statistical information all over Australia on
this question. And side by side with abound-
ing manufacturing prosperity there has pro-
ceeded hitherto unheard-of agricultural and
pastoral expansion. Squatters and farmers
everywhere from Sydney to Broome and
- from Albany to Cooktown have doubled and
trebled and even quadrupled their:capital. In
1900 there were 70,602,995 sheep in Austra-
lia; in 1911 there were 93,003,521, notwith-
standing unnaralleled exports of frozen meat.
In 1900 the area under crop in Australia was
8.812,463 acres ; in 1911 it was 12,107.017
acres: In 1907 the Commonwealth produced
44,000.000 odd bushels of wheat; in 1911
71,000,000 bushels. In 1907 the quantity of
frozen mutton and lamb exported amounted
to 109,227,7571 b.; in 1911 the figure was
129,509,2951 b. There are no final figures
dealing with the Commonwealth’s agricul-
tural output for last year; but the N. S.
Wales harvest was the greatest on record,
and the preliminary figures from the other
States were quite satisfactory. In brief, the
suggestion regarding Australia’s imminent
downfall in the agricultural line is foolish
to the brink of pathos.
* * * *
The yarn about capital being driven out
of the country has been used in Australia
for as long as anyone can remember. Free-
traders, like the returned African, reckon that
the propelling force is Protection. Anti-
Laborites put it down to Socialism. Empire
Day orators ascribe it to disloyalty. Old
Age Pensions. legislation, the Immigration
Restriction Act, the White Australia policy
and compulsory service have all been blamed
for ejecting capital in their time. Also, the
Labor party’s Land Tax (which the Liberal
party has never attempted to repeal) was to
do it; and the Maternity Bonus (which
Liberalism has likewise left unassailed) ;
and various other measures. And, mean-
while, year by year, -capital, far from
clearing out of the Commonwealth, falls over
its own feet in a persistent effort to get in.
A few days ago Australia’s bitterest press'
critic —the London Financial Times —had!
this to say, according to the cable: —
Australia is faced with such a combination of fav-
orable factors that record prosperity in 1914 is almost
certain. The rainfall and prices of wool and mutton:
make it certain that the squatters and pastoral com-
panies will benefit.
Financial interests in London have been making
heavy purchases lately of Australian pastoral and'
agricultural securities, and there is still an excess, of
buyers. Further advances are probable, as the divi-
dends are likely to be higher. Some companies are
known to be looking for additional estates as a means:
of employing their accumulated resources.
Taking one thing with another, it may be
safely said that if Bloemfontein is relying on
the example of the Commonwealth to con-
vince Africa of the foolishness of Protection
and the horrors of a Labor regime, it wouldi
do well, in the interests of those somewhat
ruined causes, to hastily give over. A paper
which is anxious to sermonise about the bor-
rowing craze, the city centralisation in-
sanity, or the absurdity and costliness of
over-government, might get some useful
points from a study of Australian con-
ditions. But to raise cries of warn-
ing concerning (1) the fiscal policy
to which, after 14 years experience,
the nation is so wedded that no section in
politics can be found to oppose it; and
(2) the party which stands for practically
every universally-accepted reform of the
past decade, indicates a lack of a sense of
proportion. One may go even further and
describe it as a sign of deplorable ignorance.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Barnstormer in the Pulpit.
The egregious Yarrington, of the Sydney
“Mission Zone,” has moved into the lime-
light again with the announcement that the
place is full of “houses of ill-repute.” Chief-
Secretary Cann immediately asked for de-
tails with a view to extirpating the danger
spots. A profound silence was the reverend
gentleman’s only reply. He declined to in-
dicate, either publicly or privately, the local-
ity of so much as one of the scarlet establish-
ments. A year or so ago he made a similar
announcement with regard to opium dens:
he claimed that they were rife in' Sydney,,
and that white girls were lured to them,
and “destroyed.” The police implored him,,
in the interests not only of the ruined!
maidens but of the whole community, to be:
a trifle more explicit. But Yarrington
remained obdurate. He argued that if he:
gave away the addresses of the Chows who;
were in the habit of seducing his white
countrywomen while the latter were under
the influence of opium, the Asiatics would ,
grow to “distrust” him. He would no longer
be welcomed by the Mongol as a brother.
And, no doubt, the “Zone” funds would be
seriously prejudiced. Presumably he will
advance the same sort of argument when he
is harried for the addresses of these other
houses. The obvious answer is that clergy-
men have no right to be on such friendly
terms with the proprietors of opium dens
and bagnios as not to be in a position, at
any time, to act in their regard as a mere
decent citizen might. If houses of ill-repute
swarm, and if they are the calamitous re-
sorts that the Rev. Yarrington says they
are, then is it his duty to come forward
bravely, and, even at the risk of
ruining his missionary career, turn the
police on to them. No man is wholly
indispensable in any walk of life..
But the destruction of a young girl’
in a Chinese opium den or a city house of
vice is an irreparable tragedy. It were better-
surely that a thousand Yarringtons should!
be liable to be driven into the wilderness of
a fresh parish than that so much as one-
virtuous woman should perish, morally and
otherwise, as a result of interested parsonical
reticence. As a matter of fact, The Bul-
letin does not think so badly of the Rev.
Yarrington as to believe that if he really
knew of so much as one hell where good
girls and weak boys have their lives and
souls destroyed, he would hesitate a minute
to speak up. The alternative theory is that
Mr. Yarrington does not know of any
opium dens or houses of ill-repute at first
hand. They are mere “props” or stage-
machinery. Just as a mission to the Islands:,
gets more subscriptions in nroportion to the
cannibalistic and other horrors that may re-,,
quire to be coped with, so a City Mission
has a better chance of financial support if its:
committees can show that the Vice which
thev are up against is appalling. Mr. Yar-
rington is within his rights in extracting as
much money and attention as possible from
those who consider that he is engaged in a .
Noble Work: but when he does it
by so libelling, the city that people
on the other side of the world hold
it up to public execration as one
of the earth’s most degraded spots, the resi-.
dents have a right to protest. No 6ne-likes
his native city to be represented as a
Gomorrah —more especially when, as a
matter of cold truth, it is rather more like
Tooting Bee.


Tired of Waiting.
No clearer statement of the claim for
genuine Protection has been made than that
contained in a memorandum forwarded to
the Interstate Commission as a result of a
conference between employers and em-
ployees in the boot manufacturing trade of
N. S. Wales and Victoria. It sets forth
that (1) wages and labor conditions are
regulated by the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court and the" various Wages Boards; (2)
competition among the various manufac-
turers is oped and keen, no pooling agree-
ment or combination being in existence or
proposed; (3) examination of Common-
wealth statistics of manufactures and im-
ports clearly discloses a depressed condition
in the manufacturing business; (4) from
1901 to 1909 the boot manufacturing indus-
try slowly yet steadily progressed, in 1910
it became stationary, and since then it has
steadily gone backwards; and (5) in 1912
Ike then Minister of Cusoms was asked by
both employers and employees for Protec-
tive duties of 25., Is. 6d. and Is. per pair
on men’s, women’s and children’s boots, plus
an ad val. duty of 30 per cent. (25 per
cent. pref.), but the subsequent persistent
increase in imports compels the request for
higher duties than those then asked for.
It will be noted that the applicants don’t
ask for an inquiry into the state of affairs.
They are weary of inquiries, investigations
and commissions. They ask for a Protective
tariff. And seeing that the electors of the
Commonwealth have already three times
declared in favor of such tariff, can Cook
or Fisher or anyone else adduce a reason
why they should not get it? Further delay
is a national danger, since the effective pro-
tection of all Australian industries is as
much a matter of national defence as the
provision of compulsory drill or the main-
tenance of the navy.
More Horrors from Germany.
Another horrible nightmare awaits England,
and again it comes from Germany. Eng-
land has now had three bouts of Teuto-
phobia, or sauerkraut panic. The first was
in the revelation that the mighty beerlifters
of the lihine were stealing all the trade that
Bull or Bullstein ought to possess by
gift of God, just because Bull was too
sleepy to attend to business. It was then
prophesied that England was about to per-
ish, and old firms like Throgmorton,
Evandale, Son and Company, shrimpsellers,
chartered since the days of Queen Anne,
got ready to explain to the Judge-in-Bank-
ruptcy that they had been ruined in com-
petition with cheap German delicatessen
made of the refuse from the boiling-down
works at Pigschnitzelwald. Englishmen
in commerce used to be carried home un-
conscious every time the squealing Daily
Mail found a fresh terror. Bull had
hardly been revived from this fit when word
went round that two British ships of war
were not able to lick one from Germany,
and that to fight the dangerous and explo-
sive Frankfort sausage with no greater ad-
vantage in Dreadnoughts than 10 to six
was rash and wicked suicide. In those
days strong, stern, still Englishmen used to
weep at the opening of lager beer, which
smelt to. them blood of their own
necks, slit by a maro-in-Germany tin-opener.
England still had this hysterical sorrow
when the third horror arose —the Menace
from the Sky. Nobody could throw a
lighted match down from a balcony or a top
window but the papers would shriek it was
a bomb dropped from a prowling German
airship. Peril No. 4 is now to hand in
the cable news. Admiral Percy Scott's
statement that submarines can blow the in-
nards out of battleships is received by
Herr Sptgglevogel, Graf von Sciineider-
sciiwanz, von Apfelgunstigkeit, and
other notable Germans with the bland re-
mark that the Kaiser’s submarines can cheer-
fully undertake voyages into the High Seas,
no matter how high they are, and that
Bullstein’s underwaterboats can’t do it.
So there you are! What sort of chance
has an Englishman got? Poor devil! No-
body will buy socks from him if there is a
German pedlar hanging about, and he mush
starve. If he stays at hime, a stinking
bomb from Koeln or Fusscraystadt will fail
on his bed. And if he tries to escape to
the blasted colonies a victorious Deutseh
Dreadnought will blow him up, and a sub-
marine will spear him while he is trying to
swim to port. Germany has no- right to
get on. ErtHand’s nerves so often. As if
.Toiin didn’t have enough worry with
those lilies of his own English fields, the
suffragettes!
Swindling Made Easy.
A conference of retail jewellers in Mel-
bourne has drawn attention for the 7Gsth
time to an incongruous position in regard
to commercial honesty—which is mostly
dishonesty disguised. The Commonwealth
Parliament has decided that goods must be
stamped or labelled to show just what they
are before they are brought into the coun-
try ; but once the goods arrive the power
of the Federal authority vanishes. And the
States have made no provision to inflict
honesty on the local trader or the local
manufacturer. W’orking within Australia
the faker can produce rolled gold trinkets
marked “15-carat gold,” and the Federal
law, which is the only law insisting on
honesty, cannot touch him. More than that,
the guileless purchaser, who usually is more
easily deceived about the value of jewellery
than almost anything else, having a vague
knowledge of the existence of a law which
insists on correct marking, imagines that
he is safe from the machinations of the
faker; so that, in one way, the unsupported
f ederal law really makes his downfall easier
than it would be otherwise. The States
might prevent the victimisation of the pub-
lic ; that is to say, each State might pass
through its two Houses a similar law deal-
ing with this matter. But a simpler and
surer way to mend matters would be to
give the Commonwealth authority enough
to pass one law and be done with it.
+,
Papuan Administration.
“Casus Belli,” from Port Moresby:—
“Hard Case” (B. 14/5/’l4) adopts the effective
method of diverting public attention from real
1 apuan issues by raising an imaginary bogev and
an imaginary Sir Galahad. He likens Judge Murray
to a valiant knight, fighting single-handed the
serried ranks of Capital, which, he says, are bent on
flooding Papua with Chinese. Nonsense ! The settlers in
Papua don’t want imported labor, because the brown ■
stranger will compete not only against Papuans, but
against skilled white labor—storekeepers, boat-
builders, carpenters, blacksmiths, etc., as in Fiji.
Even the planters, except perhaps a few big capita-
lists (and they are less than a dozen), don’t want
them, because they would cost £2O a head to im-
port, and they can get a good local article for £5.
Ask the members of the Australian Parliament who
came here three years ago, and received deputations
at Samarai and Woodlark Island against colored
immigration. At Port Moresby a small deputation
of representatives of capital asked the visitors to
allow skilled rubber-tappers to be imported, and got
very little encouragement; nevertheless legislation
was passed to enable the Lieutenant-Governor to
grant their request. The request, however, has never
been made, because the Papuan was found to be as
good a tapper as the Tamil.
The few big capitalists agree witli Judge Murray
in opposing even a limited franchise, because it
would destroy their influence and privileges, and
their few reactionary votes would be swahiped by
public opinion. Papuan settlers are composed of
small planters (corresponding to the '"cocky” of
Australia), miners, traders, storekeepers, skilled
laborers and missionaries. These settlers do not
ask for responsible government, or even an elected
Legislative Council; they only ask that the three or
four unofficial nominated members should be elected
by them to sit with the seven nominated official
members, so that the settlers’ views regarding legis-
lation and taxation can be fairly put, and so that
Australians may read in Hansard the peopleis side
as well as the official one. Judge Murray admits
he was at one time in favor of having the non-
official members elected by the people. This is the
practice in almost all Crown colonies, including
Fiji, and the right would have undoubtedly been
conceded to us had we remained a Crown colony.
But the Australian Judge Murray’s influence has so
far succeeded in preventing the most democratic
Parliament in the world from granting us a right
that is freely conceded by the Colonial Office. If
It were possible for a minority of elected members
to carry legislation injurious to the natives, or
contrary to Australian policy, the Governor-General
would refuse to assent to the Bill, and, even if he
assented, the Federal Parliament is given power to
annul it. The absurd contention that if the unofficial
members were elected it would mean handing over the
liberties and rights of the poor natives to a handful
of settlers is simply dishonest, and is made by
wealthy capitalists to gain their ends.
With the granting of a limited franchise we might
be able to evolve some broad principles of poliev
in place of the present chaotic muddle. The bewil-
dered settler, whose little all is invested here, never
knows when drastic alterations will be sprung
upon him regarding land, labor or recruiting laws,
new taxation, or harassing restrictions upon which
he has never been consulted and of which he is
totally ignorant until the Ordinance is gazetted.
With a largely increased revenue all public works are
stopped. There are practically no roads, and no
beacons or buoys on our dangerous coast. Many of
our best Government officials are resigning, and
inquiries into the alleged offences of others are
numerous. The whole civil service is seething with
discontent. The public servants are not allowed to
write to the Minister nor to a newspaper, and every-
thing is being done to suppress public knowledge
of complaints. And there is grave cause for com-
plaints.
« :
One of the depressing features of recent
weeks in Sydney has been the evidence given
before the Interstate Commission by a piano-
manufacturer, who avers that, in certain
cases, in order to sell Australian-made
pianos, he has had to put a foreign label
on them. The manufacturer didn’t appear
to be ashamed of this device. No suspicion
that he was taking part in a sort of con-
spiracy to. obtain money by false pretences
entered his head, seemingly. So far as
could be gathered, the trade took this swindle
on the public and on the industry
as a matter of course. No doubt the public
has itself to blame to a great extent. The
desire for a piano with a foreign name on
it—-irrespective of the merits of the article
is a manifestation of a snobbishness which
has done more harm than enough to Aus-
tralian industries. And the anomaly is
made the more glaring by the fact that the
very class which is most interested in push-
ing ahead Australian manufactures is
chiefly responsible for the deception. It is
not the well-to-do who are ' buying the
cheaper sort of pianos to-day. These people
already have their pianos. The bulk of the
new customers in this line are mechanics,
artisans and others who have become com-
paratively affluent by means of the policy
which, so far as their piano dealings are
concerned, they are helping to discredit.
The Austialian worker who only believes
in Australian support for the particular
industry in which he happens to be
interested is a poor specimen, and, inci-
dentally, a short-sighted one. lie will do
no good for himself on a really big scale until
he unionises, not only to secure higher wages
and the like, but also to ensure employment
to his fellow-toilers in as many lines of in-
dustry as possible. And the way to do
that is not to hanker after foreign goods
real or bogus, but to buy Australian-made
and Australian-branded articles, first, last
and all the time.
A deputation from the Vic. Trained Nurses’
Association called on Health Minister .T
Dry Brown lately and asked for six-
penn’orth of legislation. It wanted a meas-
ure to enforce a system of registration and
proper training for nurses, under an expert
Board—a matter which a Minister who
knew his business could and should attend
to promptly. But Brown merely observed
that the time had not yet arrived or the
disease was not ripe, and passed the deputa-
tion out. Victoria allows only reputable
persons to run hotels, drive cabs, hawk vege-
tables —even the common bottle-oh can’t get
a license if he has a conviction or two
against his name—but anybody, no matter
what his or her character or reputation, can
take full charge of human life and go out
nursing, or even open and run a private hos-
pital, so long as the Health Board’s sanitary
regulations are complied with. There are
many competent nurses already voluntarily
“registered,” but Mrs. Gamp, likewise her
friend Mrs. Harris, may still stick up a
brass plate bearing the words “Trained
Nurse,” and the public doesn’t know whether
she is certificated and competent or a mere
bungling parasite—till the coroner inquires.
And the coroner is always too late to do
much good.
♦
Paris Nesbit’s rejoinder:—
You take me to task (B. 28/5/’l4) for saying “that
the Totalisator system is the product of an unholy
alliance between the people who object to gambling
altogether and i'.- ’-aping men who own the machine
and want to be able to use it.” Incidentally, you re-
mark that my blows never lack vigor, though they
often lack judgment. It is difficult to meet a general
charge of this kind. When one goes into a fight one
is trying to defeat an adversary, and not to judge
him. It is an historical fact that the Totalisator sys-
tem is the product of an alliance between anti-
gamblers and totalisator gamblers. Whether this
alliance is holy or unholy is a matter of opinion.
My contention in the case you refer to, in which I
was defending a bookmaker, was that there was no
ethical basis for the prosecution, which was initiated
by the Government, which itself allows and takes
a part of the profits arising from totalisators. I
think the Government might have the decency to
leave such prosecutions to anti-gamblers. I also
objected to the savage penalty of £4O being inflicted
on a defendant who, according to principles endorsed
by the Government, was guilty of no moral wrong,
as no one can suggest that it is worse to bet with
a man than with a machine. Contrast with this
penalty the following fines inflicted by the same
magistrate:—
For robbery with violence £5
For serious larcenies £1 to £2
For shooting at a man at 15 yards
distance because he had laughed .. £2
These are offences which strike at the very root of all
social life. But the lenience of the penalties is cal-
culated rather to encourage such crimes than to
suppress them. I have for years taken an interest in
your advocacy of the totalisator, and I hold no brief
for bookmakers, except sometimes when I appear for
them professionally in court. I am, however, de-
cidedly of opinion that the introduction of the
totalisator in South Aus. has led to an enormous in-
crease in gambling upon races. A great many people
(I am one of them) who never before bet on horse
races at all, except in the way of a mild shilling
sweep, now bet a good deal through the totalisator.
This also applies to many hundred women, some of
the worst elements in whose natures are brought into
activity and displayed in a most unpleasant way at
the windows of the totalisator machine.
The always-interesting K.C. says two things
which concern The Bulletin for the
moment. First, the totalisator system is the
product of an alliance between “the people
who object to gambling altogether and the
racing men who own the machine and want
to be able to use it.” Second, Mr. Nesbit
has for years taken an interest in The
Bulletin’s advocacy of the totalisator.
Now, in the event of that advocacy being
further successful, and the machine being
introduced to N. S. Wales, which class will
Mr. Nesbit put The Bulletin in—the
“people who object to gambling altogether,”
or “the racing men who own the machine”?
He knows that The Bulletin belongs to
neither class. Which is pretty good evidence
that the system is not the product of the
alliance he talks about. The people who*
simply want to eliminate the non-productive,
parasitic and often swindling bookmaker-
have as much to do with the case as either-
of the others.
: Re Randolph Bedford’s
plea that Tasmania should establish a penal
sjstem such as Biiibid’s in Manila (Philip-
pine Islands). I don’t agree with him. Like
all American sociological experiments Bili-
bid is run largely for outside show. Any
Manila resident will bear willing evidence
that the system of rewards only gives the
criminal a quicker return to civilisation
and his old practices. Also, Bilibid con-
verts many into toadies and cringers to the
warders, so that their last stage is worse
than the first. Any system that begins and
ends with the criminal still under the
shadow of prison walls can never be really
effective. What might be much more wisely
suggested to the Tasmanians is a system
such as Dr. Findlay brought to such a high
state when Minister for Justice in the
Loanly Islands. in Maoriland a convicted
adult can pass through degrees until he
reaches the penultimate stage before com-
plete discharge—tree-planting. In certain
districts, with no prison garb, he works as
an ordinary tree-planting laborer would, and
can smoke—most blessed of all privileges to
the smoker. After that, his general behavior
being good, he grades to ticket-of-leave under *
carefully-concealed observation. It is
mainly parole that holds the men on the
tree-planting camps, and they rarely break
it. The Maoriland system of treating youths
is the best in the world. Convicted boys
go first to Burnham Industrial School, a
kind of agricultural college, though other
trades may be learned. Provision is made
for keeping the sexually depraved from the
mere thief. Boys favorably reported upon
after a certain time, if young, go to Wera-
roa State Farm, in the North Island. De-
generates may be sent to the youths’ mental
asylum in North Otago. Absolutely incor-
rigible boys, such as frequent absconders,
are placed in the youths’ reformatory prison
in Invercargill. Boys not young,‘nor de-
generate, nor incorrigible, can learn trades,
or, if- more suited to farm work, are trained
at mixed farming. After probation they
are sent out to service with approved em-
ployers, under the supervision of the Burn-
ham officials. The story of the boy as
against his employer is always listened to
and investigated; and at any time he is
allowed to return to the institution on a
well-founded complaint that he cannot get
on with his boss. He is then found
another place. The percentage of really-
reformed lads is in the nineties. Many per-
sons may scoff at this on account of the
times they’ve read of “another Burnham
boy” in the police courts. But for obvious
reasons the boy who succeeds does not adver-
tise the fact that he was once at Burn-
ham. Let Tasmania follow Maoriland and
leave tb- musical-chair flapdoodle of Bilibid
to the Yanks.
The Great God Guff.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The majority of Parliamentarians were accustomed
to put party interests first, and those of the State
second. They would continue even under the Elective
Ministry system to give spoils to the victors....
Majorities would still rule, not in the interest of
Australia but in the interests of the party alone.
The thing could not be carried out.— From the state-
ments of Senator Blakey, at a recent A.N.A. Confer-
ence in Victoria.
There was once a Simple People—(you, of
course, will understand
This is just a little fable of a non-existent
land) —
There was once a Simple People, and they
had a Simple King,
And his name—well, Smith the First will
do as well as anything—
And they lived upon an island by a pleasant
Southern sea,
Which they boastfully referred to as the
“Country of the Free.”
This King Smith was quite a model. He
was kind and he was wise.
But, alas! a higher sovereign he was
forced to recognise.
As in ev’ry age and nation, since the tale of
man was known,
Superstition here existed as the power be-
hind the throne.
It was vague and unsubstantial, but its
sway was plain enough,
And -Twas known upon the island, simply,
as the Great God Guff.
They made sacrifices to it, treasure, corn
and slaughtered beasts,
Bowing humbly to its edicts as interpreted
by priests.
Good King Smith cringed to the idol where
upon his throne he sat;
And the People feared it greatly; and the
priests grew very fat.
Now, the welfare of the priestcraft did not
always coincide
AVith the welfare of the People, hence the
wily priests relied
On the hoary superstition that had stood the
test of years;
Thus they led both king and people by their
rather ass-like ears;
Crying: “Guff was ever with us! Guff
the Great must be obeyed !
Guff the god must be consulted ere a single
law be made!”
And the very simple People with their very
simple King
Bowed their heads and said, “So be it.
Guff be served in ev’rything.”
So the nation muddled somehow on its island
by the sea—•
Simple, superstitious people in their “Coun-
try of the Free.”
And whene’er they yearned for Progress, as
things drifted to the worst,
Smith replied, “Have patience, People.
Guff must be consulted first.
Other lands and other nations may progress
without his aid;
But upon our native island never rule or
law is made
Till his priests have pondered o’er it, seek-
ing to divine his will.
So it was with our forefathers, so with us
it must be still.”
Came a time when folk grew restive, mur-
muring amongst themselves,
While the nation’s schemes and projects lay
neglected on the shelves.
Then arose amid the people one of singular
renown—
Since his name the eld refuses, let us call
him, simply, Brown.
Brown was something of a student, strong
on things like common-sense ;
He was plain and blunt and forceful; and
he hated smug pretence.
And before the priests and people, in a man-
ner rude and gruff,
He arose and put this question, briefly: “Who
and what Is Guff?”
Tmud the People shrieked in terror; and the
High-Priest threw a fit;
And the king rose from his dais as his eye
with anger lit.
“He ( blasphemes!” declared the monarch.
“Seize the sacrilegious brute !
Great God Guff may not be questioned!
He is mighty ! absolute !”
But Brown stood his ground and answered,
“Oh, I’m sick of all that stuff!
Give me one clear definition : What’s the
bloomon’ use of Guff?
He’s a silly superstition! and I’ll prove to
you, King Smith,
If you’ll give me just five minutes, that your
idol is a myth.”
Well, to bring a simple story to a sudden,
simple end,
Brown beat down all opposition, and affairs
began to mend.
Good King Smith, with seemly wisdom, on
his. idol turned his back;
And, without much fuss, the People simply
gave old Guff the sack.
And the priests? Well, some took service
with the king, and so reformed;
Some adopted Christian Science; some in
vain still raved and stormed ;
Others strove to mend their fortunes with
an Independent Kirk ;
Some became mere weather prophets ; some —
a paltry few—got work.
So they thrived, the simple People, on their
island by the sea ;
And their schemes and projects prospered,
for the land, at last, was free.
Smith the First, emancipated, o’er a happy
country ruled.
And he. smiled when he reflected how the
nation had been fooled ;
How the simple King and People, by a
superstition cursed.
Ever cried in foolish terror: “Guff must be
consulted first!”
And the last words of that monarch long
were treasured in the land. . . .
But, of course, it’s all a fable, as you’ll
clearly understand.
Yet—there lives a simple People on an island
by the sea,
And a simple Monarch rules them called
the King Democracy.
Bather, does he seek to rule them, but his
will is warped and bent
By a childish superstition known as “Partv
Government.”
And the idol has its priestcraft that pretends
to lead the race;
Though they call them “Politicians” in this
later year of grace.
And whene’er the folk grow restive, as things
drift from worse to worst,
Cry the priests, “Behold the Party! It must
be considered first!”
And the simple, simple People bend their
heads and murmur, “Yes,
We respect the claims of Party But who
is to mend this Mess?
Schemes go wrong and projects languish, and
the Big Things of the State
Lie neglected while this Party bids us wait
and ever wait!”
Oh, for. some plain, forceful person with a
plain, drab name like Brown,
And a wholesome hate for humbug, and a
stern, determined frown,
To arouse the simple People and their king,
Democracy,
Cringing to the fool-god Party on their island
by the sea !
VICTORIA.
DEN.


Hotel Steyne,
Manly Beach, N.S.W.
Facing the Pacific Ocean.
• '
THE BRIGHTON OF AUSTRALIA,
SURF-BATHING RIGHT IN
FRONT OF THE HOTEL.
Excellent Golf Links in Close Proximity.
Hot Salt Water Baths Adjacent.
TERMS —From H/6 Day;
£3 10s, Week.
THE'DUDLEY''
tON CERT !NA
fghfgh
ORGAN-TONED CONCERTINAS IN
HANDSOME BOXES.
No. 4. Rosewood Style Tops, 10 Ger-
man Silver Keys, 8-fold Bellows, post
free 10/6
No. 5. Rosewood Style Tops, with
Trumpet Holes, 10 Bone Keys, 8-fold
Bellows, with Clasp, post free, 15/-
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Ask your storekeeper for “Dudley” Instruments
or write direct to—-
m LIT.COLI IMS3TMELBOURN
IF CONSTIPATED TAKE
“CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.’
Delicious “regulator” for stomach,
liver and bowels, for mamma,
daddy and children.
If you are headachy, constipated, bilious,
or if the stomach is disordered and you want
to enjoy the nicest liver and bowel cleansing
you ever experienced, take a tablespoonful
of “California Syrup of Figs” to-night and
in the morning all the constipation poison,
bile and clogged-up waste will gently move
out of the system without griping, and you
will feel splendid.
Every member of the family should use this
fruit laxative as occasion demands. It is
just as effective for grandpa as it is for baby.
It simply cannot injure. Even cross, sick,
feverish children just love its pleasant taste
and mothers can rest easy after giving it,
because it never fails to effect a good “inside
cleansing.”
For thirty years “California Syrup of
Figs” has been recommended by physicians
as the ideal stomach, liver and bowel
cleanser. Millions of families who are well
informed use nothing else.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califor-
nia Syrup of Figs,” which has full directions
for babies, children of all ages and for grown-
ups plainly printed on the bottle. Beware
of counterfeits sold here. Get the genuine,
made by “California Fig Syrup Company.”
Refuse any other kind with contempt. “Cali-
fornia Syrup of Figs” is sold by all leading,
chemists, 1/11 and 1/9.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
II m Majesty's “Gipsy Love.”
Royal Harry Lauder.
Palace “Nero and Agrippina.”
Adelpiii “Bad Girl of the Family.”
Little Theatre “The School for Scandal.”
Tivoli Mclntosh s Vaudeville Co.
National Theatre .... Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Olympia. West’s Pictures.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice-Skating.
Imperial Salon De Luxe Dancing.
Town Hall Mischa Elman.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Sealed Orders.”
Kino’s Maud Allan.
Koyal “Never Say Die.”
Princess’s “Aladdin.”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Auditorium Harold Bauer.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Majestic Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
Bijou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville.
Athenaeum (20th) “Fanny’s First Play.”
♦
“Gipsy Love,” the new production at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney), might have alterna-
tively been christened “A Society Maiden’s
Nightmare.” lima, the only daughter of a
wealthy Roumanian nobleman, becomes in-
fatuated with one Jozsi, a Gipsy. The Gipsy
is, socially speaking, the bottle-oh of Southern
Europe. He is chronically hard up. He rarely
washes, shaves or lias his hair cut. What
wonder that the young woman’s family and
friends are distracted? But when Jozsi
sings, and his mouth wanders slowly athwart
his countenance in a sort of epileptic grin,
women forget home comforts, sanitary con-
siderations and all else, and bolt with him.
And so Act 11. discovers the proud and
beautiful lima with the unspeakable Jozsi
in the Roumanian equivalent of a Woolloo-
mooloo public-house. They are only 20
miles from the maiden’s home ; their life of
shame has not even begun, in a strictly tech-
nical sense ; yet Jozsi is unable to conceal his
deplorable character. He refuses to marry
her"; freely embraces the female members of
his tribe in her presence; gambles, drinks
and continues to leave his hair uncut and
his face unwashed. The limit is reached
and the dead finish is arrived at when Lady
Babby, an English friend of Ilma’s family,
sets out to allure Jozsi, and immediately
gets him. lima then wakes up. It is borne
in on her that Gipsy love is simply Mor-
monism without the marriage lines. She
goes home and intimates her intention of
marrying a respectable soldier —one of those
admirable beings who, when they do decide
to have a dash, may be relied on to carry
out their revels with such skilled furtive-
ness as to baffle discovery. Ilma’s father,
Dragotin, wanders more or less inconse-
quently through the play. He is an amaz-
ing creation. He wears, with a resplendent
uniform, the facial make-up of a vaudeville
comedian; and his voice and manner and
point of view are the exclusive properties of
the modern London nut. It goes without
saying that he is like nothing human, but
—apart from some melancholy puns—his
gags are amusing. Others who lend a hand
in the business of retrieving the lost heiress
are Dragotin’s lovely flapper niece and a
comic nephew.
* * * *
The Firm’s new importations are highly
satisfactory all round. Miss Elsie Spain
(lima) has a charming light soprano voice.
She acts well, and is delightful to look upon.
Miss Gertrude Glyn gets all there is out
of the sketchy part of Lady Babby, and her
dancing and singing are attractive. Field
Fisher, who plays Dragotin, has a fine sense
of the humor of a misplaced phrase; but,
as aforesaid, some of the puns with which
his part is afflicted are horrible. lie has no
voice, but a pretty gift for bizarre dancing.
Miss Dorothy Bruuton (Jolan) is the pret-
tiest incjenue imaginable, and lier acting in
the “kissing” number with Phil Smith (who
plays Kajetan) is the most finished bit of
light comedy in the show. Derek Hudson,
who plays the Gipsy lover, possesses a
powerful baritone voice of fine quality. He
acts the Gipsy to the life —that is to say,
the dashing, reckless stage Gipsy. As re-
gards lack of courage, aggressiveness and so
on. the Romany of fact is notoriously every-
thing that Jozsi isn’t. Miss Olive Godwin,
Edward Wynne and John Ralston all sing
in a fashion that stirs the audience to rap-
ture ; and then there are the exquisite dances
of Miss Novotna and Victor Lauschmann.
and the folk-dances of the chorus. And
lastly, there is Lehar’s music. It would
carry any show by itself. Adulation, weak-
ened by practically a year of ragtime, falls
before it abjectly.
❖ * ❖ *
Harry Lauder (present address, Sydney
ftoyal) spoke feelingly last week to an
audience of sympathetic humans about the
way the weary, thirsty bullock was kent
waiting in his N.S.W. railway truck. Now.
will some bullock please step forward and
bellow a few words to Harry about the way
he keens his weary, thirsty trainloads wait-
ing half the night for his turn? One good
growl deserves another.
On Saturday, at the Criterion, “The
Argyle Case” will be replaced by another
U.S. comedy, “Ready Money.” In these
days of lOU’s “Ready Money” should be
worth seeing.
“The School for Scandal” is still open at
The Little Theatre.
This week’s resurrection at the Adelplii—
“The Queen of the Redskins” —comes to the
dead-end to-morrow night. On Saturday
“The Bad Girl of the Family” is due for
another fling.
** * *
Ada Reeve is still making the Tivoli
happy, and anyone who mentions last nights
is liable to be trodden on. Also rans include
Talleur Andrews (last nights), Fred Reade
and Vivien Talleur (also last nights), the
Four Vagabonds (ditto), and Farr and Far-
land.
Spencer’s “Australian” picture, “The
Shepherd of the Southern Cross,” is about
as Australian as Joe Cook. The Bulletin
knows it is not much use asking anyone to
make alterations to a film, but it offers a
few hints in time for the next. First of all,
■our sheep country is not “the desert country
of Australia”; also bushrangers are now
even more extinct than the sheep station
on which all the farm-hands carry revolvers,
and the man who now and then gives an
eye to the jumbucks is only a “shepherd”
when lie’s in the Bible or an oil-painting.
With those few exceptions The Bulletin
lias no fault to find with the picture. As a
film it gets almost within reach of excel-
lence, and there’s little if anything wrong
with the acting.
The tangle that Federal Liberalism is in is
trifling alongside the complication the Dandy
Devil can make of himself at the National
Amphitheatre. He is one of the most elas-
tic-like contortionists that have tied the
human body in a clove hitch or a manrope
knot in Sydney. Ed. Blondell and Kath-
e.ryne Caine continue to draw on the pub-
lic’s well of laughter by means of their
comediette, “The Lost Boy”; the Troutts
are as much at home under water in their
tanks as hitherto; Westin and Hill, com-
edians and dancers, were examined and
highly commended on Saturday; the Spanish
Goldinis (praise be!) are still on the bill.
It is too early yet to say whether the two-
performances-a-day scheme will catch on in
Sydney. In the meantime it is being per-
severed with.
“GIPSYLOVE," AT
HER MAJESTYS,
SYDNEY.
A new leading comedian.
Field Fisher as
Dragotin.
In a congenial rd/e.
Phil Smith as the
hungry young man.
Raymond Longford has once more proved
that Australian cino-picture producers and
players can screen drama with the best of
them. A packed house at the Palace (Syd-
ney) endorsed this on Saturday night, when,
under the direction of Dix and Baker, “The
Silence of Dean Maitland” was unreeled.
The film is 3Sooft. long and, despite the fact
that Longford had no proper studio to work
in (as a matter of fact, he had nothing
more convenient than a backyard), it was
completed in 21 days. The cast is all-Aus-
tralian —Harry Thomas as the Dean ; Arthur
Shirley as Everard ; Miss Nellie Brooks as
Alma ; Miss G. Adams as Lilian Maitland ;
and Miss Lottie Lyell as the doctor’s sister.
To-morrow will be the last opportunity of
seeing the picture in the Palace. On Satur-
day a 10,000 ft. film dealing with the strenu-
ous times of Nero will be the feature.
* * *
Re Imperial Dancing Salon (Sydney),
see The Bulletin, 11/6/T4.
Harold Bauer, the pianist who has lately
been touching Melbourne audiences in a
deep place, is due (under the direction of
J. and N. Tait) at Sydney next week. Four
concerts have been arranged at the Town
Hall —Saturday, June 27 ; and the following
Monday, Wednesday and Thursday.
A Sydney art show :
At No. 5 Hunter-street, Mrs. Beryl Ireland, a Vic-
torian artist, is showing samples of her skill as a
miniature painter. There are about 30 of them,
somewhat uneven in merit. Mrs. Ireland evidently
has her good and. indifferent work-days, and some of
the proofs of this might reasonably have remained
unhung. But what she can do at her happiest is
charming, as in a study of a girl sitting on a low
seat engrossed in a book - ; in “Auburn” (this girl’s
hair could almost be brushed) ; in “Powder and
1 atches, and in several others. The exhibition will
remain open until June 24, and lovers of the art
who do not go along and see the girl with the book
ought to be sorry for themselves.
“ NEVER SAY
DIE ,” AT
MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
BOB GREIG,
ONE OF THE
DOCTORS.
The renown of Maud Allan is the main-
stay of the graceful entertainment which
began a three-weeks’ season at Melb. King’s
on Saturday night. For the rest of it there
is the music, of the three Cherniavsky
brothers, who gave some interesting con-
certs at the Town Hall five years ago, when
they were all in their teens, and a hardly
satisfactory orchestra conducted by Frank
St. Leger, who also supplies an admirable
piano accompaniment to the ’ceilo solo of
brother Miscliel. In fact, the entertainment
is a concert, relieved by the rhythmical
movements of the star, lady. Late in begin-
ning, it was prolonged by unnecessary en-
core numbers on Saturday, and the effect
should be improved by condensation. The
Cherniavskys, now grown into rather tall
young men, are performers of considerable
artistic merit, though distinctly lacking in
ease and virility. Jan at the piano, Mischel
with the ’cello, and Leo with the violin, are
equally wanting in force and “breadth.”
One. gets the impression that they are pro-
ducing rather thin tones from comparatively
poor instruments. This was particularly
remarked in their opening trio, where the
piano had most, to say but didn’t say it
crisply. The pianist is the least masterly
soloist of the three; the ’cellist comports
himself rather more soulfully than he plays;
the violinist —the eldest Cherniavsky—will
probably get greater credit from the crowd
for his talent in popular items than he
earned for his exacting share in a
Tschaikowsky concerto with the orchestra
on the first night. The orchestra was not
fully equal to the job, and Tschaikowsky
at the King’s Theatre seemed out of place,
anyhow. Leo and Mischel came to the
assistance of the orchestra whenever Maud
Allan took the stage, and they then showed
their quality by adding 50 per cent, to the
orchestral effect. '
* * * *
Of Maud Allan’s daring efforts as a
“dance poetess” it may be fairly said that
they improve on acquaintance—up to a
point. The taste for them grows on one
for a while, but the sense of monotony
comes sooner or later. Maud’s art of suiting
movements to music show's many gleams
of inspiration as far as it goes, and
it certainly goes farther than when the
present writer saw the artist at the height
of her London success six years ago.
Nevertheless, its limitations are marked.
The expression of joy in her Mendelssohn
“Spring Song” dance is much the same as in
her “Morning” dance to the music of Grieg.
Another of her four illustrations of the
Peer Gynt Suite reminds one of her
“Moment Musicale” (Schubert), which is
the most charming of her endeavors •to put
a composer’s meaning into action. Maud
Allan, of course, is not a dancer in the way
that Genee and Pavlova are dancers.
Her feet are bare, and she couldn’t
pirouette on a naked toe even if she were
a trained coryphee, which she isn’t. Her
legs have not been highly educated, but
her arms, wrists, neck and facial features
dance expressively all the time. She is an
artist to be seen, whilst the Cherniavskys
invite a hearing from all who are not
musically indisposed, and the entertainment,
which is changed twice a week or oftener,
can be guaranteed to leave a flavor of
novelty in the mouth. Next Saturday the
Vision of Salome will introduce Miss Allan
in garments more gauzy than she wore the
other night.
Harold Bauer, the notable pianist whc
appeared at the Auditorium last week and
is giving his fourth and fifth recitals to-
night (Thursday) and Saturday, gets won-
derful effects from the instrument at times
with the least possible assertion of excep-
tional ability. Compared with his excit-
able brethren in general he is an austere,
soldierly personage whose lightest touch on
the keyboard seems to express the self-
restraint of one well able to bang it louder
than any of them if he chose to be angry.
From first to last of his performance, Bauer
is an artist, disdaining showman’s tricks.
He keeps his most impressive achievements
for the second half of the programme. At
the two recitals last week his treatment of
Schumann and Beethoven seemed chilly, but
in a piece called “The Wind,” by Alkan,
he was great, and when he played the Ride
of the Valkyries the piano amounted to an
orchestra, and the audience was stirred to
its vitals. Bauer at his best is the very best.
The nights of “Sealed Orders,” at Her
Majesty’s, have not been' definitely
numbered, but it is understood that, the
Gilbert and Sullivan Opera Co., due in Mel-
bourne from S’Africa on the 19th, will get
the run of the house as soon as possible.
Meanwhile the melodrama aforesaid is jog-
ging along as usual.
At the Princess’s melodrama is already off,
and the “Aladdin” panto-extravaganza-revue
reigns in its stead, unless unforeseen cir-
cumstances have happened to prevent the
panto, co. and the wrestling ponies from
coming to hand. The new show was adver-
tised to stagger Melbourne for the first time
on Wednesday.
“Never Say Die” is not to be allowed
to run the full length of its financial tether
at the Royal. Last nights are announced,
and persons desirous of seeing Niblo escape
from the jaws of death in defiance of the
doctor’s orders are exhorted to hurry up
before it is too late.
McMahon’s Repertory Theatre Co. is to
make two Saturday matinee appearances at
the Royal. “Fanny’s First Play” is billed
for the 20th, with much the same cast as
when the Repertoryans did it at the Athen-
ffium Hall a year or two ago. On the fol-
lowing Saturday afternoon Ibsen’s “An
Enemy of the People” will be produced, and
in each case the performance will begin at
2.30 p.m. instead of half an hour earlier.
Even the devotees of literary drama object
to rushing their midday meal on Saturdays.
The latest contributors to a somewhat
enfeebled programme at Melb. Tivoli are
Josh Dixon and the Ellwoods. The latter
are a respectable young man violinist and
his pleasing sister, who accompanies him
on the piano. Josh is a quaint and furious
song-and-patter comedian with a nimble
pair of abbreviated legs and a style that
suggests one or two previous hard workers
in the same line of business. The longest of
the other turns, and one of the oldest, is the
gaudily picturesque performance of the
Eight Elliott Savonas, which begins to grow
wearisome when the man in a yellow satin
belltopper starts to be funny.
The club-juggling Normans are now ap-
pearing at Melbourne Bijou, and the house
isn’t large enough to hold the riot when they
are hurling their lumps of timber about.
Also there is a certain amount of enthusiasm
for the Stella Trio of dancers, and an almost
lurid welcome for Cruet and Gruet, who
give an advertisement to the rather feeble
humor of the Sambo nation. Hart and
Kenny, tuneful duettists, earn favorable men-
tion ; and the turn of Biff and D’Armo is
smart, though the lady should refrain from
singing for fear of making Melba jealous.
Spencer’s. Pictures concluded their long ■
term of residence, at Melbourne Olympia on.
Saturday, and shifted over to the neighbor-
ing Majestic, where they are now showing •
by arrangement with Amalgamated Pictures’,
Ltd. A good house watched the ‘ final pro-
gramme at the Olympia, the chie'f item being;
“The Mills of God,” which disclosed ’ quite?
enough of the career of a murderer and em-
bezzler to give a nervous person a restless;
night. “On. the Brink” was the other-
drama—a terrible boil-over of amorous emo-
tion, with the usual nut hankering after his;
neighbor’s wife.
Anybody wandering into Streeton’s great
show at the Vic. Artists’ rooms on Eastern
Hill (Melb.) will get an almost complete-
guide. to Venetian scenery. Streeton has;
practically painted everything worth inen-


99
mHE “Thoroughbred” trade mark (Regd.) on the inside leather of a hat is
JL an absolute guarantee of good style, comfortable fit, light weight and
excellent wearing quality.
See that YOURS is a “Thoroughbred”—one
with the “Horse’s Head” trade mark in it —
to be had in all popular shapes (Hard or
Soft Felt) at popular prices from all
hatters and clothiers.
If not obtainable in your district write direct
to
The Austral Hat Mills Ltd ,
Abbotsford, Melbourne.
XOS7
THIS 15 THE TRADE MARK
AHM
MEDICAL MEN
RECOMMEND
I l k
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
Missing Friends.
PONTING.— If Elizabeth -Pouting, daugh-
ter of Christian Braten, of Schweinebra-
ten, deceased, will communicate with Messrs.
Taylor and Taylor, 10 New Broad Street,
London, E.C., she will hear of something to
her advantage.
MISSING FRIEND inquired for by No.
3 Police, Darlinghurst, WILLIAM
JOHN RICHARDS, 24 years of age, an
ex-writer Royal Navy, left that service on
the 22nd September, 1911. Mother very
anxious to hear from him. Any informa-
tion as to his whereabouts, please communi-
cate to Senior-Constable Harris.
"VM7 ALDRON, JAMES (a brother of
T* Kate Waldron, retired teacher), for-
merly of Sydney, New South Wales, or any-
one acquainted with his whereabouts, dr
death, please communicate at once with
National Trustees Company, 113 Queen
Street, Melbourne.
Missingr Friends.
FRANCIS THORNHILL BARLOW, deceased.
I NFORMATION is desired of the exist-
* ence of any widow or chiidren <of the
above, who left England in 1876 or 1877,
and resided in Adelaide and Sydney, and
died in the Garrison Hospital, Victoria Bar-
racks, New South Wales, on the 20th Aug-
ust, 1891, being then a serjeant in the Per-
manent Artillery of New South Wales.
Apply to HICKSON and PARISH, 7 Laur-
ence Pountney Hill, London, E.C., Solicitors.
A Federal Detective Agency.
J. CANTLON
(late Victorian Detective Police) under-
takes Commercial, Confidential, Next of Kin,
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enquiries,
Searches. Surveillance.
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
tioning in the sloppy capital of the Adriatic.
Also, he has gathered his information at all
hours of the day, even catching the dawn on
La Salute and watching the last gondola
going to roost. The result is an imposing
record of architecture and atmospheric
effects, of quaintbridges and quiet waterways,
all demonstrating a magical craftsmanship
and a gorgeous sense of color values. The
English stuff, bearing direct evidence of the
painter’s fapcy for old cathedrals, tattered
■castles and quarry holes, is sombrely impres-
sive by comparison, and depicts the Blue-
stone Age of Streeton’s art. “Corfe Castle”
(No. 3) is about the most notable in this
division, and the artist repeats the same
subject in several other canvases. A charm-
ing array of water-colors in the central gal-
lery provides an appendix to the discourse on
Venice in the oil section, and several in-
teriors, particularly “A Corner of My Din-
ing Room,” demonstrate a brush play that is
like a fine feat at the circus. The studies
of silver table-utensils demand favorable re-
port, and “Luigi Polishing a Bronze” is a
strong achievement, even though Luigi is only
dashed in, leaving his feet a falsehood and
his visage a mere rumor.
* * *
The crowded houses at the Revue have
shown the newly-rebuilt Adelaide Royal that
some of its seats are too much out on the
side to give a view of more than a fraction
of the stage. This should not be in a new
house, and the proper course would be to
grub them up, as the new Tivoli has done,
and leave the space blank. Daisy Jerome,
who has nothing to do with the show
comes before the curtain and “holds” her
audience for the saucy songs that she talks.
The gang-plank just suits Jack Cannot, who
can stand about and chaff the audience in
his own deliberate way. As Lauder does
just the same, Cannot’s imitation of the
Scotchman is about the best thing he has
given. It is a good show, but a lot of
chances to “review” Australian sports and
politics are missed. There have been
funnier Hebrew talkers at the Tivoli than
Gilday and Fox, but W. C. Fields is en-
titled to a large bouquet for his quiet fun,
and Russell Carr has some new jokes in his
ventriloquism turn. The King’s, after Leroy
and Bosco’s fine fortnight of “magic,” has
got back to variety, with Cunningham and
Rose and the musical Luxors at the head of
the bill. West’s show the Fire of London,
an impressive fake, with a Harrison Ains-
worth plot running through it. The date is
carelessly placed in the 16th century, and
the newspapers as carelessly adopt it. Won-
dergrapli has some jolly and daring jungle
performers in “Thor.” Apd a whole lot of
high-class concerts are imminent.
Dear Bulletin, —Last Thursday’s Daily
Telegraph contained a paragraph obviously
intended to injure me politically. It stated
that I threatened to “bust” up the Defence
system because a Melbourne P.M. sentenced
a Quaker lad of 16 years to “detention” at
Queenscliff. This is a lie. What I de-
nounced was the action of the military offi-
cials who kept the boy on hand for two
days and then sentenced him to .solitary con-
finement. Millen professed to disbelieve in
“solitary,” yet refused to take the boy out.
Last Sunday I debated in the Bijou Theatre,
Melbourne, on the question “Does Australia
Need a Citizen Army?” I took the affirma-
tive, and, on reading Melbourne Age, do not
seem to have had the worst of it. But the
Minister who permits the horrors of solitary
confinement to be inflicted on a boy is the
worst kind of enemy to the Compulsory Ser-
vice System.—Yours, etc., Arthur Rae.
Melb. City Council thinks of closing the
“Turkish” section of the municipal baths
and converting the heating, rubbing and
cooling places into more hot-water bath-
rooms for the public in general. Turkish
baths, when you come to think of it, are not
a municipal business matter. They are not
furnished for the convenience of the general
public, but for the luxury of a few, and in
this Melbourne case the “Turkish,” which
the Council has been running at a financial
loss, is the luxury of a small clique, mostly
Hebrew, which is attracted by the low price.
A reduced tariff —six tickets for 10s. —Is
the bait. The Turkish baths in the heart
of the city offer only five tickets for half a
sov., hence the bitter cry of the clique at
the threatened closing of the stuffy, ill-
ventilated rooms where the habitues can
sweat for twenty pence a time. Somebody,
writing to the Age on behalf of these penu-
rious monopolists, protested that the baths
were airy and altogether excellent, and
needed merely bold advertisement to make
them pay. This is obviously an absurd plea
for their continuance. The concern has had
ample time to advertise itself. It has been
a failure for many years—the loss is said to
be £4OO per annum, and the City Council
should have put the premises to some really
public use long ago. What does the average
man want with Turkish baths at a reduction
for a quantity? If he does want one, once
in a way, he is charged 2s. 6d. for it, and
made, to feel like an interloper. And the
working woman who ventures among the
perspiring daughters of Israel feels even
more of an interloper. They ooze resent-
ment at her.
AT POVERTY POINT.
HAROLD BAUER , Pianist, now playing
at Melbourne Auditorium.
“Theorbo”: The Boston Opera Co., whose head
Melba has turned towards Australia, has some con-
nexion with the Covent Garden Syndicate, of which
Melba is a strong pillar. By last advices the Bostons
were doing a good season at the Theatre des Champs
Klysees, Paris. The tour of America and Australia is
already mapped. The co. will be in the United States
for 12 weeks from January next; will return to Paris
for April, May and June ; thence it comes straight to
Australia. Sydney and Melbourne will hear it in Aug-
ust and September, and Adelaide in October. Dates
are not chalked for Brisbane. From Australia the co.
goes to ’Frisco. The headquarters are Boston, where
it always begins a season in January. On stocktaking
it shows 300 people and 30 operas. Melba will just
be the leading star, exempt from managerial cares. I
remember her bitter disappointment on the second
Melbourne night. The premiere was great when she
appeared in “Traviata.” The second night there was
a slump in attendance, with Cisneros as Delila. The
unreasonable public wanted Melba every time. She
promptly decided on cutting Melbourne short and giv-
ing a return Sydney season. Melbourne then repented
in sackcloth and ashes, and rushed Wayda and Cisne-
ros ; but too late —the law of the Medes and Persians
had gone forth.
“0.K.”: Fred Niblo, who has been a winner for
the Williamson firm every time, is booked for a
third year in Australia. Niblo is an exponent of
“slickness” in farcical-comedy acting. With youth
and good looks in his favor, he has rushed the public
into accepting the same sort of quick-tongued Ameri-
can as four or five different characters. His method
never changes, the characters are invariably flimsy
creatur-es of fiction, and the company, apart from
Niblo, is weak. Yet he gets the public every time.
When Willie Collier came from America with a
really fine farcical comedy and a co. that was good
all round, the public had no use for him. A very
uncertain animal, the public. No wonder theatrical
managers have a profound disrespect for it in their
hearts —and a grateful regard for it in their ads.
Who said Sydney isn’t musically inclined ? One
morning during the week the following world-known
artists were advertised to appear in the city forth-
with : Antonia Dolores, Mischa Elman, Leonard Bor-
wick, Harold Bauer and Boyd Wells. Others of
lesser reputation were simultaneously announced as
candidates for local appreciation and its sordid accom-
paniment.
(i It isn't often that a pro. gives another pro. a
‘boost” from his own stage, but Harry Lauder is the
exception. The other night at the Royal (Sydney)
he spied Graham Moffat, the author of “Bunty Pulls
the Strings,” in a box and stopped his show to tell
the audience that Moffat and his Scottish comedy made
one of the star importations of the year to Australia.
Long ago Lauder and Moffat were scratching on the
same hills in Scotland, and each had a respect for
Hie other’s turn. It was Lauder that advised E. J.
Carroll to bring “Bunty Pulls the Strings” to
Australia.
Ellen Terry has succumbed to the blandishments
of the Sydney Shakspearian Society, and will appear
at Her Majesty’s in the trial scene in “The Merchant
of Venice.” The support will be given by leading
actors from all the Sydney theatres. This will be
after Miss Terry’s Maoriland tour, and will probably
be the lady’s last appearance as the heroine who
pleads for mercy.
“Melb ”: Aladdin has been duly hawked round to
these diggin’s. The Willoughby production is evi-
dently grounded on H. J. Byron's “Aladdin the
Wonderful Scamp,” produced in London about 1860,
and in Melbourne about 1861, with Julia Mathews.
Rogers, Stewart and George Fawcett Rowe. Burke
the explorer had been infatuated with Julia Mathews,
who was guarded by a stern father and mother, but
ultimately made a rather unhappy marriage with
one Mumford, of Maoriland. She appeared with
fair success at Covent Garden in “The Grand
Duchess.” In “Aladdin” her great songs were “I’m
an Idle Vagabond Boy” and “Sweet Spirit, Hear
My Prayer,” from Wallace’s “Lurline.” She was
the Melbourne rage among the bucks, like Nellie
Farren in London. There were three brothers
Rowe —George, Tom and Saville —all connected with
the old wooden matchbox, as we called the Princess’s.
Their father, a painter of pictures, was also here,
and George followed the same line before taking to
the stage. He was clever in mimicking such public
men as Dr. Hunter, Dr. Macadam and Barry Sulli-
van, and I think his Widow Twankey, in “Aladdin,”
has not been equalled here. It was he who brought
Hennings forward as a scenic artist.
“Masetto”: Apropos “Lelamine’s” remarks on
Gordon Carter and Gladstone Wright, I didn’t know
that Wright was asked to sing “It is Enough” twice
at the final rehearsal of the Geelong Liedertafel’6
performance of “Elijah” in 1897 because he did it
so beautifully, and I ought to have known had it
happened. Certain it was he died in his bath next
morning, whereupon Dr. O’Hara, who had been
Wright’s medical adviser, went to Geelong
and sang the part. The doctor had aired his
fine voice on the music in Melbourne some time
before. He did it well at Geelong, too; but twice
his feelings were a little too much for him and he
narrowly escaped a breakdown. Mrs. Palmer and
the late Armes Beaumont were in that performance,
by the way. •
The coming Gilbert and Sullivan revival looks
promising, and the policy of opening the Melbourne
season with “The Gondoliers,” rather than “The
Mikado,” seems wise. In the older operas much of
the satire is foreign to Australian audiences, and the
younger generation needs to be led up to it. The
coming co. will begin with the work which contains all
the ingredients of the collaboration and a larger
number of principal parts than any other opera of
the series. There are nine important characters,
as well as small speaking parts for choristers, in
“The Gondoliers.” The first performance will be
run on “gala” lines.
Barring Dorothy Vane, who joins the co. in Mel-
bourne, all the principals of the Gilbert and Sullivan
repertoire crowd have had six months’ experience of
their parts in S’Africa. And the chorus should be
equally familiar with its work. If the performance
is not brilliant it should at least be smooth.
“Tarago” : Passed out, at the little hamlet of Nar-
Nar-Goon (Vic.), on June 13, Elizabeth Clara Snell,
the greatest of the one-time giant family of that
name. Twenty years ago, accompanied by sister
Anna (28st.) and brother Tom (275 t.), she toured the
world. At that time she tipped the beam at 38st.,
and was the most active of the trio. On returning
to Australia they lived privately for a while; then
the two girls took the Robin Hood Hotel, on the
Gippsland-road, at Drouin West, while Tom went into
business as a grocer at Nar-Nar-Goon, where he still
abides. The girls wearied of the pub and retired
to live with their parents. The old people are of
very ordinary stature, and two of their children are
normal.
All the musical human phenomena since Mozart
have had their noses put out of joint by Little
Willie Ferrero. Willie is now aged 7i, but his
marvellousness is of quite long standing. Conduct-
ing an orchestra is his favorite amusement, and he
has lately been having a good time with the New
Symphony Orchestra at the Albert Hall, London.
Any sort of orchestral work, from the overture to
“William Tell” to the Good Friday music from “Par-
sifal,” comes easy to the Ferrero kid. The one
essential is that he shall fancy it. His sense of
hearing must warm to it. At rehearsals, when he
was perched on a table amidst the instrumentalists,
the nipper convinced the critics that he could detect
instantly a weakness in the accentuation of a note,
or in the attack, or when a crescendo was too hastily
commenced to secure the climax he desired. He in-
sisted on a piece of “Carmen” being taken more
quickly than the orchestra had usually taken it, and
the result was so exciting that the men got up and
cheered the child who had hurried them up. The
Theosophists naturally argue that they have got
another great “find” in Willie. The educated soul
and memory of some deceased musician were born in
him, and have gained further development in him.
The odd thing is that the kid doesn’t want to play
any instrument himself, not even from ear. Except
when he is waving a baton, or otherwise directing
the orchestra in the way of his inspiration, there is
nothing of the musician about him save his shock
of dark wavy hair and his appetite. After a per-
formance he blows himself out with a large assort-
ment of cakes.
George Musgrove’s advt. for dramatic artists and
decorative ladies indicates that Nellie Stewart’s next
touring venture will begin shortly. It is apparently
to be a comedy-drama dressed a la Pompadour, with
Nellie playing the boss-mistress of Louis XV. The
Marquise de Pompadour at the French Court in 1760
should be much the same sort of stage heroine as
Nell Gwvnne at Charles’s Court in 1675 or there-
abouts. As a matter of historical fact the two
women differed considerably. Sweet Nell was a
good-hearted wench, picked out of the streets ; Jeanne
d’Etioles was an ambitious, artful hussy who had
been specially educated to become a morsel for the
King.
Old Mrs. Miranda, mother of Lalla and Beatrice,
died in England recently. David Miranda, her hus-
band and the father of the two clever vocalists (Bea-
trice showed more dramatic ability than Lalla), was
one of Melbourne’s best music-teachers in the old
days when the Simonsens were going strong, but it
was the mother who had the training of the girls’
voices. For that matter, Beatrice was only a nipper
when her father died.
Dead lately, at Wagga (N.S.W.), aged 81, John
Thomas Hely, horseman. He was a Parramatta
native, and in early days battled round with “Tinker”
Brown’s circus. He was in charge of the horse that
was shod with gold on the Ovens diggings and was
driven in the circus by future-legislator Cameron.
Later, Hely was a farmer and crack horseman in the
Riverina district.
Recently Bailey, Grant and Duggan’s great
winner, “On Our Selection,” concluded the most
successful run of any single piece ever played in
Brisbane. The Australian comedy was staged for 21
nights and one matinee performance. And this was
a revival. “Steele Rudd” isn’t in the utmost distress
about it.
“J.”: Does the profesh. live in motors, or is it
done for advertising purposes? The latest star to figure
in a collision is Ethel Warwick. She collaborated
last week in a Hawthorn (Vic.) smash, which re-
sulted in a cycle and sidecar being devastated and
the chauffeur of the car occupied by Miss Warwick
having his nervous system severely shaken. Lewis
Waller achieved not only a motor smash, but a
motor law suit while he was in Melbourne. And it
is well known that no modern chorus girl can hope
for initiation into the Second Degree of the "Order
till she can bring proof that she has been flung
a distance of not less than 10 yards out of a car
which was doing 40 miles per hour at the moment.
“8.J.”: Other theatrical wills (B. 28/5/’l4) :
Edward Terry, £44,056; George Grossmith,
£19,628 ; S’renry Irving, £20,527 ; Augustus Harris,
£23,677; Dan Leno, £10,994; Herbert Campbell,
£4477 ; and W. R. A. Stirling, £16,227.
“Harrison O.”: Maud Allan introduces what is
presumably the “classical” method of stalking and
capturing vegetable tributes. She puts out her hands
as though about to pronounce a benediction, and
comes down stage on tiptoe, lest the slightest sound
should disturb the menial in the orchestra and cause
him to escape with the greens. When a couple of
feet away she stops suddenly; her body becomes
rigid, her hands are held in front of her, palms out-
ward ; her whole posture suggests rapture—or con-
tempt, it may be. For a second or so the house is
breathless, thinking that Maud is about to repudiate
the vegetables; but she relaxes, and, sinking to the
stage after the manner of Halina Schmolz in the
“Dying Duck” dance, gathers the produce in her arms
and, with head bent low, her attitude expressing
shame and remorse, tiptoes backward from the stage.
Those who deny that it is possible for a dancer to
express almost any thought or emotion should see this
performance. Miss Allan’s suspicious approach and start
of horror are more convincing than a three-column
article on anti-vegetarianism.
(Continued on page 26.)
The wildest thing said about the wreck-
ing of the Empress of Ireland came from a
Salv’army Commissioner. Said Redflannel
Mac:—
The death of so many Salvationists on the steamer
was a sign of God’s wrath, and it was up to the
Army to find what were the faults for which it was
chastened.
But there were nearly a thousand dead who
didn’t belong to the erring Army. Is the
Almighty so wasteful or so resourceless that
He couldn’t think of burning down an Army
meeting-hall, or letting loose vengeful
ptomaines at an Army picnic, without slay-
ing many hundreds of persons who never
said nothing to nobody? And is the Army
—Oh push that fly off the wheel!
M'Kenna’s illuminating remark during his
recent Commons speech re the wealthy suf-
fragettes who lurk in the cushioned back
ground and hire poorer sisters to shriek,
kick, burn and explode for a regular stipend
of 40s. a week or less, recalls a telling
phrase in Evelyn Thaw’s “Story of My
Life.” Referring to her unfortunate hus-
band, she wrote: “Harry was one of those
warped martyrs who deputise their cal-
varies.” But Harry at least did his own
shooting, and thus stands 01* a rather higher
level than the wealthy suffs. who do their
little jobs entirely by deputy.
According to Knibbs, who made a special
investigation in November, 1912, the object
of which was to ascertain the wages paid to
employees in manufacturing industries
throughout Australia: —
As regards - male wage earners the summarised
results showjhat out 0 f a total of 209,128 persons
included in the returns 34,245, or 16.4 per cent.,
were in receipt of less than 30s. per week; 26,CSS,
or 12.8 per cent., received from 30s. to 455. ; 79,785,
or 38.1 per cent., from 455. to 605.; while 68,410, or
32.7 per cent., received weekly wages of 60s. or over.
The average wage for all males was £2 9s. 3d- oer
week. In the case of females, of the 74,369 workers
included, 22,415, or 30.1 per cent., were in receipt
of wages under 15s. per week; 30,218, or 40.7 per
cent., received from 15s. to 255.; 17,423, or 23.5
per cent., received from 255. to 355.; and 4313, or
5.7 per cent., 355. or over.
The returns include males and females under
adult age. In all, only 292 in every 1000
males, including juveniles, received under
455. per week; and 708 in every 1000 re-
ceived over 455. The figures for the females
are far less satisfactory, no doubt largely
because the proportion of girl-workers is
much greater. Only 292 in every 1000 r<>-
ceived more than 255. It is rather a strik-
ing coincidence that, per 1000, exactly the
same number of males should be receiving
less than 455. as among females receive more
than 255. Conversely, among every 1000
males, 708 receive more than 455., while
among 1000 females 708 receive less thao
255.
A GOOD-NIGHT SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(To be wailed sloivly to that dreary old air “Daddy”
—the one with the dead mother in it and the
morbid, yarrulous girl-child, and the speechless
bereaved papa who was too broken-hearted to
light the gas and shut up the child and set the
gramophone going.)
Take your hands off my windpipe, Fisher,
We’re giving this game a rest ;
It’s a double . dissolution, Fisher—
The double that I like best.
We’ve had a year of it now, Fisher,
And it’s time that we stopped, they say,
For you couldn’t call it work, Fisher,
AndYt’s hardly as good as a play—ay ! (Pause.)
Take your foot off my left ear, Fisher
Don’t wipe your boots on my hair!
This scrimmage is finished now, Fisher,
For another we must prepare.
I want to go campaigning, Fisher,
So let me up, d’ye hear!
I’ll keep my teeth from your calf, Fisher,
If you will get off my ear-r-r! (Rest.)
Very solemnly:
And oh, when we meet again, Fisher,
I wonder how much we’ll do-o-o!
Will you be obstructing me, Fisher,
Or will I be obstructing you-00-oof
It’s bound to be much the same, Fisher;
But one of us will be right;
But if I’m the one that’s out, Fisher,
I’ll make you a horrid si-ight! ( Long rest.)
Mournfully—both of them:
For I hate Yew and Yew hate Me-e-e.
And together we’re just a Bli-ight!
But there’s Nobody Else to do it —so-o-o
Joejq*} Good-night!
D —n you, good-ni-ight!
Dear Andy!
Dear Joey! !
Good-ni-ight! ! !
GOOD—ER—NIGHT ! ! ! !
N.S.W.
KODAK.


NOW IS THE TIME FOR . ♦ .
UNDERWEAR CONSIDERATION.
TO better withstand the climatic vicissitudes of
the winter season, give due consideration to your
underwear. It is an all-important health item.
Are you efficiently clad in this respect V We are
offering a variety of really excellent values in our
“ORIENT” grade. Just the articles for present and
coming wear. Warm, light and easy to the body. For
wear they stand unsurpassed.
44
ORIENT
tt
UNDERWEAR
PERFECTION
Under vests and Underpants (unshrinkable) at the
following quality prices :
Undervests, $ Sleeves. Sizes: Sir. Men, 0.5., X. 0.5.,
Underpants. Sizes: Sir. Men, 0.5., X.O.S
WX PAY CARRIAGE.
each*
David Jones, Ltd.
Opp. 6.P.0.
SYDNEY.
sm
RifiMlt
JpfyVuF
Vacuum Oil Co.
Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand
SOCIETY
“Plainer”: Outside the G.P.0., Sydney, in
a nice glass case which is dusted at least
once a month, there is a printed proclama-
tion announcing that six proposals for the
amendment of the Constitution of the Com-
monwealth are to be submitted to the people
during May, 1913. The poor old notice
doesn’t do any harm, but it is rather a
reflection on the up-to-dateness of the
G.P.O. Apparently when the Putterup-in-
Chief . and his staff were appointed, the
necessity for the appointment of a Taker-
down-in-Cliief (with another staff) was
overlooked. And in the voluminous Regula-
tions somebody forgot to include taking-
down in the duties of the Putting-up staff.
The addition of a sub-clause “Z” to Rule
A 4573 (dealing with the duties of the Put-
ting-up staff) might overcome the difficulty.
ANANIAS.
A truck that went on the jag is the latest
curiosity in the N.S.W. railway system. It
was a loaded goods vehicle attached to the
Farkes-Condobolin “mixed.” While rum-
bling along in the region of Bathurst the
grey monotony of life seems to have hit it,
and it was seized with that irresistible
longing to break away from the common-
place which impels Mary Jane to gag her-
self and yell for police succor against the
brutal ravisher who isn’t there, and occa-
sionally urges a respectable parson to bor-
row Bill Smith’s working togs and vanish
into the Unknown with a strange female.
The anarchistic truck abandoned the ortho-
dox and the rails together. For half a mile
it bumped and clattered over the sleepers,
knocked dog-spikes into the Undiscoverable,
kicked tons of ballast over the surrounding
territory, and then stepped back on to the
rails to get its second wind. It got it in
the next 12-mile run, and once more it waved
its tarpaulin and swore it didn’t care for all
the bosses in China. This time the intoxi-
cated spasm lasted for f-mile, and its effect
on the permanent way made the fettlers
who arrived to fix things up say the truck
was no gentleman. Amid all the jag and
dust the train went on doing its 20 miles
or so per hour, and no one seems to have
noticed that part of it was drunk and dis-
orderly.
“Swallow-tail”: There is a murmur in
N. S. Wales Labor ranks about the growing
social “exclusiveness” of Labor Ministers.
The murmur grew to be almost a roar over
the failure of the Premier to invite officials
of the Musicians’ Union to the reception
given to Mischa Elman. The Wade Govern-
ment, it is said., used to give invitations to
the representatives of the organised musi-
cians as a natural thing; but the Labor
Government, which was assisted to be a
Government by the Musicians’ Union, not
only did not give invitations, but engaged a
non-union band for the reception. A Govern-
ment which is pledged to wipe out the loan
policy can borrow millions, and Binks. Pre-
sident of the Bungfasteners’ Union, will let
it pass “for the good of the Cause” ; but if
it slights Mrs. Binks it is booked for a
houseful of trouble.
* * * *
Adelaide University has approached the
State Government with both hands and its
mouth open. It says that it is being
starved, getting only £ll,OOO a year grant
as against about £40,000 allowed to Sydney
and Melbourne; even the new institution
at Brisbane gets £12,000. The rest of the
£26,000 a year that Adelaide spends is made
up partly of income from its investments,
but largely by charging big fees to students
- —which it doesn’t want to do, but has to.
Also it is the only Australian university
not teaching French and German; and its
medical school is gradually being left be-
hind by all rivals. It demands new Chairs
of Modern Languages, Pathology, Mathe-
matics (to be separated from Mechanics),
and Economics —the Professor of Economics
to take a hand with the new Workers’ Edu-
cation Association, which promises to be a
big thing for democracy. Agriculture, vet-
erinary science and dentistry have to be
shelved for the present; but a lot of ;jew
buildings and an extra £7OOO a year axe
confidently asked for. The Peake Govern-
ment is willing to go some of the way, and
meanwhile has marked out for the Uni-
versity ij. slice of the land at the back
(running down to the Torrens’ banks),
shortly Jo.be vacated by the police-barracks
and Destitute Asylum.
Last week’s highway robbery of £3300
was as neat a thing n its line as has ever
been done in Sydney. The necessary motor-
car —the Black Bess of the modern Turpin
—was stolen. Had one of the malefactors
owned it, it might have beqn recognised even
though disguised with a false number-plate.
Moreover, it was a motor-car that was more
or less used to being purloined, and so its
loss was not reported to the police. To
make a success of the venture the robbers
had to arrive at the very second when the
box of cash which they intended to seize was
starting on its journey from the cab to the
COMPARATIVELY SAFE.
“Where do you work, my good man,?”
“In a powder factory.”
“Mercy! What risks you must run!”
“'Oh no , mum! I seldom meets any motors on my way!”
Eveleigh railway workshop gates. The feat
was accomplished. Two armed guardians
of the money, a couple of laborers, a cab-
man, and any law-abiding citizens who
chanced to pass, required to be kept in sub-
jection by a couple of men, one of whom was
handling a heavy box and the other the
steering-wheel of a strange car. In theory
the thing seems impossible, and yet in prac-
tice it was done. And then there was the
get-away, effected without so much as one
hostile shot being fired. The robbers had
the luck which their audacity merited. No
one recognised them ; the engine of the car
didn’t stop; none of the tyres punctured
or blew out; there happened to be plenty of
petrol in the tank. In short, everything
went just as it should have gone. It seems
a pity to waste such men by putting them
in gaol; the Railway Department ought to
have plenty of room for them in the traffic
branch. What a time-table, for instance,
they could produce!
A rotten system has been exposed at
Bathurst. In the local police court last
February a man was sentenced to 12 months’
imprisonment, but, on his promise to refrain
from drink, was released under the First
Offenders Act. He kept his promise to live
a sober life, and was proving himself a hard-
working citizen; but, having failed to report
himself, he was charged with non-compliance
with the Act. His newest offence was
purely technical, yet the magistrate had no
option, the recognisances were ordered to be
estreated, and the man was sent to gaol to
serve the 12 months’ sentence. All the
magistrate could do was to suggest that the
clemency of the Crown might be invoked. If
the facts are as stated, what were the police
doing? Are they so anxious to lodge sober,
hard-working men in gaol for techincal omis-
sions that they couldn’t give this poor fellow
a hint?
Last July the N.S.W. Navigation Depart-
ment ukased that the ferry companies
should provide life-jackets for all passengers
travelling by their boats. The adult variety
had to be capable of floating in fresh water
for 24 hours with 151 b. of iron attached;
children’s gear was required to hold up 121 b.
To comply with the regulation the companies
imported large quantities of jackets from
Spain. The things were marked “Equal to
Board of Trade Standard,” and at first no
one seems to have doubted the fable. Any-
way, the cos. distributed them among their
craft, and the Navigation Department
granted certificates to steamers carrying
them. Later, it occurred to the Department
that maybe it would be as well to see what
the Spanish onions were made of, and the
result was interesting. In the test one of
the alleged life-preservers dived down among
the fishes as soon as it was placed in the
water with the weight attached, and others
expressed willingness to dive with a little
encouragement. Possibly by way of making
up a satisfactory average of buoyancy,
another was lively enough to hold up the
whole ferry service. Taken altogether the
imported “life-jackets” appear to be either
anchors or balloons, and these aren’t the
things a shipwrecked citizen naturally
hankers after. He prefers something that
will just keep him on top until the ambu-
lance arrives.
* * * *
“Harrison O.”: The decision of the Vic-
torian Licenses Reduction Board to close
the Hotel Fasoli has called forth hiccups
of protest from Melbourne Bohemians. The
place is in King-street, at the north-west
end of the city, which is overpubulated ; but
the garlic-eating community is indignant
that one of the most distinctive of local
hostel ries should be chosen for sacrifice.
Everybody in Melbourne who writes, paints
or draws —with the possible exceptions of
“Bleeds” I itchett and editor Cunningham,
of the Argus —has at some time attacked
lughly-spiced dishes and drunk liqueurs at
Fasoli’s. Its absinthe made the heart grow
fonder, and a fair number of prominent
barristers, members of Parliament, book-
makers and other highly-placed citizens
cherish recollections of the place. There
are others, of course; but none of them can
boast the true Fasoli bouquet.
WHEN THE HINDU HINDON'T.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Vancouvek, Tuesday.-—The 400 Hindus on the
Komagata Main, who came to Canada with the in,
tention of forcing - a landing despite the prohibitory
immigration laws, have received information from
I.crd Hardinge, Viceroy of India, that he is unable
to secure their entry. The Hindus consequently de-
cided to abandon the fight :..,d to return to India.
Previously they had threatened to riot unless they
were allowed to land. — Cable.
Whiroo!
Hurroo,
For the gentle Hindu!
He smells and he snivels
Like ten thousand divils ;
He lingers and drivels,
He do ! He do!
And Canada madly, and gladly, and sadly
Objects to his presence!
She do! She do!
Hoodoo !
Hoodoo
On the slinky Hindu !
lie cannot keep o: iet,
He threatens to riot!
The Canuck says try it!
“Yes, do! You do!’’
That mutineeer murky, and pe kv, grows shirky,
And caves like a wre died
Hindu! Hindu!
Achoo!
Ach-oo 1
Give us air again— phew!
The raid was a fizzle !
He sails in a drizzle
Of tears—quite a mizzle
Hindu ! Hindu !
Now Canada’s huffed him, and bluffed him, and
cuffed him,
We’ve got a White Sister!
Whiroo ! Whiroo ! !
N.S.W.
PATRICK O’F.


Do you shave yourself? If so you can
get the best results by using a Diamond Edge (brand)
razor; price 7s. 6d. and 10s. 6d. each, postage 6d.
extra. Also sole agent for Apex Hair Restorer, a
true hair-grower, 4s. fid. and 12s. fid. a bottle. Sup-
plied only by T. Wild, 30 Sydney Arcade, Sydney.*
DISORDERS OF THE MIDDLE-AGED MAN.
After the age of fifty even the most healthy
of men find it necessary to make some changes
in their methods of life. They can no longer
eat and drink whatever fancy dictates, and
they require regular hours of rest and sleep.
Some little weakness begins to develop. It
may be dyspepsia in one of its multifarious
forms , gout, or some uric acid disorder ; or,
worst of all/a nervous breakdown. What-
ever form the disorder assumes, it comes so
gradually that it is oftentimes well advanced
before the busy man realises its significance.
. modern works on medicine, one fact
is made abundantly clear —that nearly all
isorders of this kind have their origin in the
lgestive area. It is too wide a subject to
iscuss here, but broadly speaking, we poison
ourselves by absorption from the intestinal
rac ' follows that if the digestive organs
cou be kept in a healthy condition to
pertorm their functions naturally, many of
t e worst disorders of middle age might be j
avoided. The seat of the m~st serious of
these disorders lies in the intestines, and
therefore ordinary digestive remedies are of
no avail because they do not reach the
intestines at all. The most useful, all-round
remedy in these intestinal cases is petroleum,
because, unlike animal oil, it passes through
the stomach unchanged, and exercises its
soothing, lubricating disinfectant action
directly upon the intestines.
The original and standard prepa’-atmn of
petroleum for internal use is Angler’s Emul-
sion. In this preparation the petroleum is
purified by a special process, and combined
with hypophosphites in the form of a perfect
emulsion that is pleasant to the palate and
acceptable to the most delicate stomach.
Apart from its soothing, healing properties,
Angier’s Emulsion exerts a marked tonic,
invigorating influence, which makes it of value
in a wide variety of disorders. Of all chemists
at 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
THE REAL AUSTRIAN VELOUR
a Distinctive Winter Hat,
fgh
The Austrian Velour in the new shape featured
by us is quite the latest fashion- —and a very
appropriate one for the season.
The hat has a rich, distinctive appearance.
Medium Crown. Brim 2jin., and adjustable for
neglige shape. Taffeta Bands, 24in. deep. Bow
at side or back as preferred.
Colors: Light Grey, Slate, Fawn, Mole, lleseda
Green and Dark Brown.
A smart, comfortable and seasonable hat.
Please state size and shade when ordering. Catalogue on request.
PEAPES (& CO. LTD.
Men’s
Outfitters,
309-311 George Street* Sydney.
“Hop” finds Uncle Sam still hard at
work: —
I am still in the great chewing-gum .belt of the
American continent, which I first drifted into at
Vancouver.. Both sexes greeted their returning
friends and relatives at the wharf with streaming
eyes and wagging jaws, but did not allow the ex-
change of embraces to disturb the poetry of motion
in the lower end of their faces. Intense emotion
would seeni to merely accelerate the play of that
bony weapon in its endless struggle to reduce the
elastic to swallowable consistency. Fletcherisation
is nowhere, and the tourist when he is first brought
face to face with it looks on with amusement min-
gled with disgust:—-
Yum, Yum, everybody’s doing it—-
Gum, gum, everybody’s chewing it.
The perfect roads and magnificent surroundings of
Vancouver make motoring a favorite pastime. I was
struck with the great number of ladies who drive—
chewing gum all the time, of course. The urbane
clerks at the hotel-counter do not allow business to
interfere with the delights of perpetual and hopeless
mastication. The hotel hello-girl jaws her message,
as it were, and when she hangs up the receiver, ex-
tracts the “chaw” of gum from between her teeth
with her taper fingers, pensively regards it for a
moment, replaces it, and splutters the next customer’s
message to “six-o-seven-o-double-o.” The barber chews
gum as he shaves you, but the habit does not in the
least obstruct his flow of conversation. I went to
see a baseball game. It was strenuous, but that
didn’t stop the players chewing gum throughout.
There is one hotel in Vancouver that will be first-
class When finished. They are working at it day and
night. Good restaurants are scarce. One morning,
being some distance from my hotel, and feeling peck-
ish, I entered a cafe, and resolved to let my ’appetite
run riot. I called for porridge and milk. ' The por-
ridge was office paste. “Try somethin’ else,” said
the waiter, his under jaw working with an adagio
movement. “Boston pork and beans,” I suggested.
“Yessir,” and I saw his ears working up and down
as he glided away to give the order. The beans
came. Only half-cooked, and my appetite “wouldn’t
stand for it.” “What’s the matte)- with them beans?”
“Them beans is all right,” I said, “only they ain’t
haaf cooked.” He stooped over and picked one off
my plate, and crumbling it between his thumb and
linger, his jaw momentarily at rest, he agreed with
me that “them beans don’t seem to be overdone —
have somethin’ else.” My appetite was waning, and
required something to boost it up. “Gimme some
steakunions ana cuppa kaughy,” I said, after another
glance at the bill of fare. The dish came, the
waiter’s jaw working dubiously with a kind of side
action. The onions and the kaughy slid down kindly
enough, but the steak —“How’s that steak?” asked
the waiter. I told him. “Try somethin’ else,” said
he. “Well, ves—bring me a stick of chewing gum;
its the one thing everybody seems able to ‘chaw’!”
“Tain’t on the- meen.vu,” said the waiter. “You’ll
get it at Jhe candy shop two doors lower down.”
A young man has got himself into trouble
out Brunswick way (Melb.) by doing dam-
age to a church. The circumstances are
interesting, but were not regarded as extenu-
ating. It appears that the youth was wait-
ing for his girl, who was in church attend-
mg a confirmation lesson. “The lesson was
only to be half an hour,” explained the cul-
prit. ‘I waited for an hour and 20 minutes,
and then I grew impatient, and threw a
brick through the window.” His impulsive
action cost the lover £lB, but no man who
has waited for a girl so long overdue can
fail to sympathise with him.
THE TERRIBLE TANGO ,
“Tor Heaven's sake change the step — you're
hypnotising me."
A JUST REBUKE.
THE ONE: "Say that agen, yer lyin' cow, an' I'll chuck this leer alt over yer."
THE OTHER: “Waster!"
Senator McDougall, barracking for short
skirts in the army:—
What we desire to secure is a force of good iight-
ii'g men to defend Australia in the time of need. It
should not matter to us how they dress as long as
they can fight. Why shouldn’t the men wear kilts?
Well, if it doesn’t matter how they dress
what’s McDougall how-ling the loud pibroch
about?
“F. Croson”; Immediately the threatened
strike or lockout in the Melbourne bread-
baking industry was averted several persons,
including Kookaburra Peacock, crowded over
the alleged “triumph for Wages Board legis-
lation.” As a matter of fact, it was no
triumph at all. The employees had handed
out an ultimatum, to be answ-ered on Thurs-
day at latest,
asking for in-
creased wages
and “day” bak-
ing, and had
left the final
decision in the
hands of their
Board delegates.
The Master
Bakers simi-
larly gave their
delegates full
powers. The
chairman called
the Board to-
gether. Two of
the. five em-
ployers’ delegates promptly
voted with the employees,
and that settled it. But
now that they see what has
been done most of the
Master Bakers are ropeable,
and threaten the formation
of a new Ass., the boycott-
ing of their own delegates,
a reconsideration of the
Board’s decision, several
serious earthquakes and a
dynamite explosion. Of
course none of these terrible
things will happen. The
direst effect will be that the
public will get its bread a
trifle staler —and that will
do the public good. As to
his diet, man resembles the
horse, which foolish beast
likes fresh and juicy grass, on which
it perspires luxuriantly and is unable
to do a fair day’s work; whereas a diet of
hard, dry chaff, with a handful of oats, a
dash of bran and a taste of treacle keeps its
muscles firm and its-shoulder set to the
collar. ■
A peculiar case affecting the liability of
a man who has sworn to two entirely differ-
ent versions of the one story cropped up in
Sydney last week. The defendant had sworn
in tlie Probate Court that he had four houses
in Perth, for which he received 255. per week
each, and £1250 invested. Subsequently, as
an uncertificated bankrupt, he appeared be-
fore the Registrar in Bankruptcy and said,
in effect, that he owned nothing of the sort.
The law was indignant, and set out to pun-
ish the offender. The facts being absolute,
the case was mainly a matter of argument;
and, on a point raised by the defence, it was
decided that evidence given in the Bank-
ruptcy Court could not be admitted as evi-
dence on a prosecution for perjury com-
mitted in another Court. Section 33 of the
Bankruptcy Act apparently provides that
only evidence given in Bankruptcy can be
used as evidence on a charge of perjury
committed in Bankruptcy. Apparently, if
a man desires, he can thus be as wealthy
as he likes in one court and as poor as he
wishes in another. It is well known that the
Law is an Ass ; but it is interesting to dis-
cover the manifold ways in which it Can
contrive to be one.
* * # *
“A III.” : The cabled rumors that the last
British naval manoeuvres had to be aban-
doned because of the damage dealt out by
the submarine turns out to be correct. The
Pali, Mall Gazette gives full details. The
invisible craft not only wiped out fleets, but
even singled out the flagships until “not an
admiral remained afloat.” Coming on top
of Sir Percy Scott’s announcement that the
submarine must render the above-water
battleship useless, my previous contention
that the comparatively cheap submarine is
the sea horse for Australia’s money seems
a decent tip. The modern submarine, if it
cannot chase and engage an enemy’s fleet at
sea. can at any rate keep him off the grass,
and even in blue water give him jumps,
specks before the eyes and other symptoms
of nervous breakdown.
Melbourne Hospital has just been con-
nected with another unseemly episode. A •
constable, proceeding to Russell-street bar-
racks per tram the other evening, observed
a man fall off the dummy and lie prone on
the ti'ack. lie escorted him to his home
near by; but finding him apparently seri-
ously injured, took him to the hospital.
There the doctor in charge diagnosed abra-
sions and bruises to the head and tangle-
foot, but chiefly tanglefoot. The lockup
was suggested as a suitable resting-place,
but the constable, seeing the patient was
very drowsy and was vomiting, demurred.
So the electric battery was applied. Accord-
ing to the report he “became more ani-
mated after the course of battery”—which
seems feasible —and gave particulars about
himself. Allowed to sit in the casualty room
for a while, he there began to vomit more
blood. The constable therefore sent for the
doctor again; but before the battery could
re-animate him or other remedy be applied,
the patient slipped back dead. No doubt
A PAINFUL ALLUSION.
LADY LECTURER (enthusiastically): “And
who is the pride and joy of our homes?
Who is the first in our thoughts? Whom
do we save our daintiest morsels and softest
caresses for? Who is it that”--
COCKY BROWN (tearfully): "Come ’ome ,
Hannah. S’trewth, I could swear she
waz lockin' about our pore ole Strawberry
wot died! ”
it was a most inconsiderate thing to do.
Still all the blame shouldn’t be put on the
corpse. It is even possible that the doctor
might reasonably be asked a question or
two. The idea, apparently prevalent at the
Melbourne Hospital, that a drunk couldn’t
injure himself even if he fell under a road-
roller can be overdone.
THE SAVING SENSE OF HUMOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If any man’s religion keeps him from having a
laugh in church, the sooner it is knocked on the
head and laid out for burial the better.
— Rev. Henry Howard, at Ballarat.
Since I was just a kid at school,
Accustomed to the birch,
It ever was (and is) my rule
To smile aloud in church.
I sniggered through the Litany,
And silence oft I broke
At sermon-time. Church was to me
A good old Sunday joke.
The Bible lessons awed me not—
Is unbelief a fault?
I did not think the wife of Lot
Was ever turned to salt.
To jest at what I bore in mind
My wits I did employ;
I was an ordinary sort
Of Church of England boy.
Anon I looked around for Grace,
But fruitless was my search;
Then Time brought whiskers to my face,
And still I laughed in church;
Curt comments on each gruesome tale
I made with bated breath,
And as for Jonah and the whale
It tickled me to death.
My solemn sisters in the pew
Were shocked at me the while;
They wondered sadly if I knew
How wrong it was to smile ;
They classed me with the sinful throng,
They thought 1 shunned the Light ;
But now it seems that they were wrong,
And I was in the right.
A worker I of Heaven’s will ;
For parson Howard saith
That merriment was meant to kill’
The gloomy wowser’s faith.
The wowser will not reach his goal,
But I, who write this rhyme,
Can go to church and save my soul
By laughing all the time.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


THE MATE WHO BECAME A HINDRANCE.
Another very important matter that has been decided is that, the principle of Protection having met with the support of the inajority of lhc Aii.-rnilioh People, it is
to be one of the main features of the Ministerial programme. Any alterations that may be made in the tariff, either in the direction of correcting anomal ts oi of ta tt
revision, are to be made with a Protective incidence. — S. M. Herald.
COOK: “Come on, Boss, let’s in!”
THE BOSS : “ Here, dear out! Your mate’s a nuisance and doesn’t pay.”
COOK: “Come on, Mister, let’s in, and I’ll poison him!”


THE G.-G. AND THE ANT-HEAP.
THE GOVERNOR-GENERAL: “Eh, but a glide Scotsman is sairtainly at a great deesadvantage on sic a seat as this.”


GAELIC WHISKY
is now supplied in the
NEW PATENT NON-REFILLABLE
GUARANTEE BOTTLE.
The characteristics of GREAT
AGE, PURITY and QUALITY
have been most carefully pre-
served.
Agents: ORME, KEIGWINBCO.Ltd.
269-271 George Street, Sydney.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
NABOB BOOT PASTE,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney. L i
]
me
EVERY
mote people ate
day\
proving that
u the best washing preparation (or
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
(rom the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes.
r
,/\» I iv-'V *
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
W. Oswald Watt, the Australian who
has been looping the loop in France, was
referred to by Harry Hawker the other day
as one of the most brilliant amateurs now
flying. His case disproves the theory that
aviation is only for the very young. He
was over 30 before he began to fly, and that
was close on five years ago. He was a
pioneer motorist in Australia; the first
English-speaking aviator to fly in Egypt;
the first overseas soldier (he was a captain
in the N.S.W. Scottish Rifles) to win the
Aero Club’s certificate; and the first Aus-
tralian to loop the loop on the European
continent. Incidentally he is the only mem-
ber of the Union and Melbourne Clubs who
has flown alone. He owns stations in N. S.
Wales, and was for some years A.D.C. to
Governor Rawson.
PASCOE, Minisler of Agriculture (S.A.).
“Chasuble” puts his view:—
I wrote lately on the duties of Monsignor Bonaventura
Cerretti as the coming Apostolic Delegate in Aus-
tralia. “Singemoine” followed, giving the new man a
wider sphere of duty, and, indeed, making Arch-
bishes Kelly and Carr mere automata under him.
This seemed to me incredible; and a column in
London Tablet, from its correspondent in Rome,
supports my position. According to this authority,
Cerretti is to be a kind of Chief Justice, and not
superior to the Archbishops. Maybe the visit to
Rome of Dr. Phelan, Bishop of Sale, after only one
year in his diocese, has something to do with the
matter, he having been Dean of Melbourne, and
thoroughly knowing the minds of the Archbishops. The
Tablet mentions that- Cardinal Moran made some
representations to the Pope concerning a need of
better-defined jurisdiction. Anyhow, Cerretti’s posi-
tion will not be higher than that of Monsignor (now
Cardinal) Falconio and his successor Bonaza in rela-
tion to Cardinal Gibbons, in the U.S. Cerretti, after
seven years service as Secretary to Falconio, was
Acting Apostolic Delegate for a while. He is a
Portuguese, and speaks English fluently. A com-
paratively young man—he is 40—of only such rank
is not likely to be set over our prelates. It would
indeed be astounding to hear of his being even made
a Cardinal.
Gone aloft, in his 70th year, “Dick”
Bennett, one of Sydney’s best known ancient
mariners. To the last Bennett ran his three
trips a week regularly to Wollongong in the
collier Herga, and only closed his timetable
on June 11, when he was found in a dying
condition on the bridge of his hooker. In
a big blow two months back the Herga’s
engine-room was flooded and for 36 hours
the vessel was in imminent danger of founder-
ing. The “Old Man” stuck to her and pulled
all hands through, but the valiant effort was
too much, and when the Enemy looked him
up again he handed in his ticket.
Kirkton, the oldest N.S.W. vineyard,
changed hands a few days ago, the Linde-
mans taking it over. Kirkton was started
as far back as 1830 by James Busby—an
ancient bursting with new ideas for develop-
ing a country. Others had brought grape-
vines and dreamed about a time when Aus-
tralia would be its own wine supplier, but
their enthusiasm was fitful. With Busby it
was a day and night obsession. He collected
vines from France and Germany to suit the
soil and climate of the Hunter River, and
some of the original stocks may still be iden-
tified in the enclosure at Kirkton. He was
a good family man also, and, until Linde-
man stepped in the other day a Busbyite
headed the enterprise.
DISRAELI
BRAHAM,
Sydney D.T.’s
new Editor.
Another Australian has made a book —
Heber A. Longman, of the Brisbane
Museum. The R.P.A., of London, has just
published his “Religion of a Naturalist.”
Longman (a friend, by the way, of ex-Vic.
Gov. John Fuller before that uncertain
country squire came to Australia) was
years ago on the Queensland press, and fol-
lowed poet Essex Evans as editor of a Too-
woomba paper. Then he got to the job he
loved best—joined the scientific staff of the
Museum in Brisbane, and is now Deputy-
Director. That is his work; the “Religion
of a Naturalist” has been his hobby.
“Carmine”: Streeton sells his “Corfe
Castle” to the Melbourne Gallery for £4OO,
and within the past few days has realised
£lOOO by other sales. In spite of the tradi-
tion that there is no market for art in Aus-
tralia, Australians, on the whole, find it
much easier to sell their goods here than in
London. A number have even brought pic-
tures from England to Australia, and most
have done fairly well. Perhaps the slump
in the London market may not last, but it
is serious at present. It is far easier to
achieve a Royal Academy hanging _ than a
sale. Some exhibitors either continue to
follow or have resumed humble occupations.
S. H. Hancock is a London postman in the
Ilford suburb. He has ha( a picture in
each of the last three Royal Academies. And
F. Cowley, who is “hung” this year, goes
on lathering and shaving his Gravesend
customers, while his paintings on the wall
appeal to them at bargain prices.
“Nemo”: The other day the Pope made
Dean McCarthy, of St. Patrick’s Cathedral,
Melbourne, a monsignor—which means a
member of the Pope’s household. A few
days ago his fellow-priests presented the
Dean with the robes he ought to wear in his
new rank. This reminds one of old Dr.
John Fitzpatrick, who, for a generation, was
Vicar-General to Dr. Goold when the latter
was Archbishop of Melbourne. Monsignor
McCarthy fills the same office to Dr. Carr
that Dr. Fitzpatrick filled for Dr. Goold.
But dear old Dr. Fitzpatrick had a horror
of honors. I was a pressman when he was
made a monsignor, and a day after the wire
had arrived announcing that he was to wear
purple robes and a red cap and be called
“Right Reverend,” we met in Bdtrrkmstreet.
He at once seized my most convenient but-
ton and told me on no account to mention
his promotion. I promised I would not. and
he went away happy. He never put on red
or purple, and if the priests had presented
him with the robes I believe he would have
had to be carried to his room.
Mrs. Christina Ross, widow of Joseph
Ross, the pioneer glass-manufacturer of Aus-
tralia, died on Sunday at Sydney. The
lady herself took a hand in the pioneering.
When her husband half a century ago was
struggling to establish the glass bottle in-
dustry, she assisted by making all the clay
pots or crucibles in which the raw material
was smelted.
Three Irish centenaries are coming—Tom
Davis’s in October this year, Mitchel’s in
1915, Duffy’s in 1916. Davis (a Protestant,
by the way) was the greatest of the fiery
patriotic poets. Mitchel (Protestant, too),
Iceberg Irvine’s uncle, was, many think, the
finest political prose writer since Swift, and
the most violent rebel of them all. Duffy
was too strong for O’Connell, and Mitchel
too strong for Duffy. Yet the English Gov-
ernment regarded Duffy as the most danger-
ous—a rebel “to the backbone and the spinal
marrow,” as he said himself.
“8.J.”: A volume of verse, “From Far
Lands,” just issued by Macmillan’s and
attributed to “Gervaise Gage,” is really the
work of Melbourne’s only “Larry” Rentoul.
The pugnacious Scotchbyterian professor,
like Commonwealth Statistician Knibbs, has
been writing verses in his spare time for
years, but for the most part has kept the
damaging fact dark. His chief fault as a
poet is that he insists upon incorporating
sermons in rhyme, texts in the more or less
running verse, and good advice in every-
thing.
Hamel, the dare-devil aviator, who disap-
peared while crossing the Channel between
England and France, was an interesting per-
son. The son of a well-known doctor in
the Cold Country, he commenced the study
of medicine, too; but a year or so ago, when
flying began to attract young men without
nerves, he abandoned pills and started to
climb skyward. His methods were graceful
and at Hendon his flying always drew a great
crowd. Young and boyish, and with a
charm of manner, he made a lot of money
at the game easily. Also he spent it gener-
ously. He crossed the English Channel by
the air route over 2Q times ; looping the loop
was to him child’s play, flying upside-down
a daily diversion. Baronet Ward, of the
Loanly Land, went up with him at Hendon
in the M.L. Defence Dept.’s Britannia, and
louseph hasn’t got over the daring of it yet.
J. G. Kalbfell, journalist, handed in his
last copy at Sydney a few days ago. Like
many another good pressman he was first
seen on the Inky Way behind a comp.’s
apron. That was in Tasmania in the old
Hobart Mercury office. More or less he
was lost track of until 1890, when he joined
•S. M. Herald, and remained with it for 22
years, doing his work most conscientiously,
although much of it was uncongenial to
him. A couple of years ago he was selected
from the city press-gang to take a seat in
the State Hansard gallery, and appeared
to be settled there for long years. Shock
following upon a minor operation upset
those anticipations. He had many virtues :
Deadly accuracy (the first thing in press
work), a heart that pulsed for every lame
dog and —well, that’s enough to write on
any man’s stone.
A. O. WHITINGTON, 25 years secretary
of the S. Ans. Jockey Club.
Professor William Morrison Davis, a
scientist of note, was in Sydney a few days
ago. lie specialises in-geology and meteor-
ology, and one of his books on the latter
ology is much quoted. When he is at home
Harvard University, U.S., is his address,
but at present he has his eyes fixed on-
Nevv Caledonia, where he will make investi-
gations regarding the growth of coral reefs.
L. BERNARD
HALL, Director
of the Melbourne
National Gallery.
Burst of Praise from “D.” :
A rare type of Liberal will go out of public life
when Agar Wynne, the Commonwealth P.M.G., steps
down upon the death of the present Federal Parlia-
ment. He has never exploited the' burst-marriage-tie
argument, nor claimed that his political opponents
were Anarchists, nor played the party game on any
other than strictly non-abusive lines. He is upright
without being a wowser, and a sportsman whose repu-
tation has never been touched by the breath of scan-
dal. It is appropriate that he should leave the
House with a characteristically decent act to his
credit. Some time ago his stepson drove a motor-car
into a St. Kilda tram and hurt the conductor. The
youth was acquitted last week on a charge of negli-
gent driving, which left the conductor without any
hope of legal redress, 'though no one was liable for
a farthing over the affair Agar Wynne voluntarily
sparred up £l2OO to compensate the injured toiler.
When one remembers the wild-cat fashion in which
certain State Administrations have contested the
legitimate claims of aged civil servants, this sample
of private generosity appears all the more admirable.
Judge Gordon —the South Australian
Judge Gordon —has been giving another
example of the robust practical sense which
startles lawyers but delights business men.
It was a question of cutting up some £4OOO,
left by an Australian with no relatives here,
among relatives in England. The Public
Trustee of the State had a look round, while
on a holiday, and found two brothers and a
sister. But they had migrated from Ire-
land about 1835, and had no proof of their
parents’ marriage; and (said counsel) to
hunt for Malones in Galway would be like
looking for Smiths in London. Then Judge
Gordon took a hand: “Let me say that I
am satisfied the parents were legally
married. If that man and that woman
lived together, and had the four children
named, then we can assume that the union
was a lawful one. They were Irish, you
know, and the Irish people are very puncti-
lious about such matters.” But, said the
conscientious lawyer, it is not absolutely
certain that there were no other children.
“We cannot deal with all life’s possibili-
ties,” objected the Judge. “We must come
to a finality somewhere. The average of a
family is four —though I don’t know about
an Irish family.” And he cut up the little
estate with a promptness that would have
given the old Court of Chancery a fit.
RESPONSIBILITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Willie Watt, opening the Liberal Workers’ Insti-
tute at Melbourne Guild Mall the other day, knocked
the initiative and referendum on the head with the
declaration that the innovation would destroy “that
sense of grave responsibility which rests properly on
the representatives of the people in Parliament.”
So, gentlemen and ladies dear,
When you behold the Parliament
To all appearance on its ear,
Though roaring- till the roof is rent,
Don’t rashly say it is in drink,
But try your very best to think,
With Willie Watt, it lets you see
Its great responsibility.
When you a Minister behold
Who looks as though he’d been a year
Embedded in the Arctic cold,
His mouth ajar from ear to ear,
And snoring till the buildings quake
And all the other sleepers wake,
John Murray ’tis, his sense shows he
Of grave responsibility.
Whole Parliaments with squabbles vexed
Do nothing much, and do it ill;
And Governments are much perplexed
How uselessly their time to fill.
Have some compassion, do defend ’em
From ’Nitiative and Referendum,
Which seek to rob the fine M.P.
Of his responsibility.
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


CAPSTAN
NAVY
CUT
TOBACCO
I
&
58bO
BEFORE Australia’s ships put to
sea, Capstan Tobacco must be
aboard. Then for Jack there is
a vast contentment and the pleasant
hours that come only from the
enjoyment of his favourite smoke.
Capstan Navy Cut Tobacco
is made from the
choicest Virginian
leaf, and possesses a
flavour and fragrance that
is unmatchable the world over.
The Famous Brand of W. D. & H. 0. WILLS
THREE STRENGTHS
MILD, MEDIUM and FULL
Packed In loz* 2oz* and 4o*-»
LATENT AIRTIGHT TINS
- Alao obtainable in Plus Form,
liM.A.s,Warre£o.
Replenishing
Stores
r
/Sk
c y*»A
To 6ft
CAPaTAIi
CCO
TObAC
r OR
CAreTNI
TOBAC
A GOOD JUDGE WILL USE
LMK
PIPES
?>’« ZrSs&s
v er / P 'P e Quar4r <*eeH
m \OHm
if\.M|
ita isi
:&{&£&SS
*: ; v •*»;;•{.-({*?
LM N
EsH


Woodworking Machinery 8 Engineers’ Tools
COVENTRY CHAINS FOR MOTOR LORRIES.
Kindly lee us have your enquiries. “ INQECO ” FARM ENGINES.
SIMPSON BROS., 32-34 Clarence Street. Sydney.
BUCYRUS CO. Milwaukee
Steam Shovels, Drag Line Excavators.
Sole Agents— WILLIAM ADAMS (Sb COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of New Zealand (Maori-
Paid Interest
towards on
Loss of Money
Assets Ad-
Reali- vanced Divi-
Written sation by dend Re-
Profits. Off. Board. State. 5 p.c. serves.
I ' 289 502 37,001 151,135 80,000 21,366 23,474
1903 ’ 290 591 15,001 174,410 80,000 21,180 23,474
1904 .293’,316 12,500 179,022 80,000 21,281 23,987
1905! .320,909 15,001 206,312 51,978 47,618 23,987
Premium on Sale of Forfeited Shares (£10.910) 48,897
1906 330 330 16,00,1 224,329 40,000 50,000 43,897
Premium on Sale of Forfeited Shares (£37,397) 81,294
7* p.c. pref.
10 p.c. ord.
1007 343 881 16 000 40,000 87,500 281,675
1908'!369,’923 — 40,000 g: , jf ( ’. 5 p J re f 504,098
12 i p.c. ord.
1909.. 368.151 15,000 - 40,000 106,250 710,999
1910.. 15,000 40,000 lo^lPpref 8M ’
15 p.c. ord.
ion 335 270 20 000 40,000 125,000 1,034,405
10m''396 183 25 000 - 40,000 125,000 1,240,588
1913 382 530 40 000 - 40,000 125,000 1,418,118
1914. 40’,000 40,000 125,000 1,601,608
This bank is quite respectable again It was a
dreadful drunkard once. Bad com l ,a, !' (ll ' ' : ilall ,
lived in an atmosphere of drink. the Maoniana
politicians of 25 to 30 years ago were just the same
as most Australian State politicians of to-day. They
thought it was only necessary to borrow and spend
on what they called development works to make the
country prosperous. While the tens of millions were
being spent it seemed prosperous. Any man who is
spending not only his income but the same amount
of borrowed money can wear a look of affluence. I e
trouble was that the country got wretched value for
its borrowed money. Prices —including prices f °^
labor — r ose enormously. The people who ought to
have been settling on the land to help make the
works profitable found much more remunerative jobs
in helping to spend the borrowed money. Prices
went on advancing, and it seemed as though one only
had to borrow money to buy something and he would
soon be able to sell out, repay the borrowed money
and pouch a handsome profit for himself. ■T ,ln K s
went on that way until the lenders began to think.
Then the supply of money at the old rates stopped,
and soon it became difficult to get any at all. The
next stage arrived with demands for repayment, ihe
inflow having stopped and repayments demanded, the
bottom fell out of the prosperity Very soon hardly
anybody in Maoriland thought of paying anything.
This bank, upon which tens of thousands of people
were leaning, tried to get in money. It got some in
London at ruinous rates. But that wasn t enough,
so at last it went to the Government and remarked
coldly that its doors would have to be shut it the
State' didn’t come to the rescue. In all, the Govern-
ment had to provide no less than £2,500,000. Bit
after bit was repaid until, under an arrange-
ment made in 1903, £1,500,000 was left in—
£soo,ooo in pref. shares, £1,000,000 in 4 p.c. stock
running for 10 years. That is how the State came
into the business. It is also the briefest history of a
colossal smash of which the Holmans, the Scaddans,
Griffiths and Trefles have apparently never heard any-
thing. _ _ ,
The 10 years mentioned above as the term of the
State’s loan of £1,000,000 ran out last year, and
then other arrangements had to be made. These have
already been described at length. They amounted to
a compromise between private shareholders and the
State; and the former may consider themselves re-
markably lucky that they had the State to deal with
and not a group of private capitalists. The Govern-
ment’s £1,000,000 was left in the business, and is
to remain there for 20 years, to be then repaid out
of a sinking fund—which will be as good, of course,
as adding another £1,000,000 to the capital of
those then in the business. Present private shareholders
and State have preferential rights to apply for new
shares to be issued. Up to March 31, £269,690 had
been paid on account of these new shares; the idea is
that for every £2 of new ordinary capital to which
present private shareholders are entitled, the State
may apply for£l of pref. capital, the dividend on the
latter being limited to 10 p.c.
The bank’s recovery has been one of the wonders
of modern finance. The freezing chamber was mainly
responsible—that and the policy of closer settlement
which Ballance began and Seddon and others have con-
tinued. When the boom burst, sheep were worth little
more than half a crown a head ; the freezing trade
has made them worth just upon a pound. And the
increase in numbers is amazing. In no other big
business in the world can a man double his stock in
two years; and meantime get a harvest from it. The
butter business was a second string. For both these
branches of agriculture Maoriland is uncommonly
well suited, its rich and regularly watered pastures
running right down to its ports. Add to that the
energy of the people, the richness of Maoriland s for-
ests and the value of their timber, with some help
from gold-mining, and you have an explanation of the
remarkable recovery in this bank’s position. There
may be set-backs, no doubt. Much of the land is very
highly valued, and the Maorilander borrows heavily.
But the return is quick and repayments should be
rapid, so that nothing but very bad management
should land this or any similar M.L. institution in
serious trouble so long as the racketty country stands
whole and the meat and butter markets are not
knocked out.
The next table shows the movements of the princi-
pal balance-sheet items in detail: —
Liabilities.
1908. 1913. 1914.
Notes in circulation £912,627 £994,680 £989,882
Bills in circulation,
etc 1,838,676 1,367,081 1,403,457
Deposits .. . . 12,771,413 16,414,646 18,070,613
Assets.
Liquid . . .. 7,399,884 11,034,363 12,590,186
Old Assets Board
assets .. .. 471,235
Advances .. 9,871,341 10,757,329 11,360,486
Premises, etc. .. 321,853 467,827 449,577
The bank thus owes £20,463,952, and its own funds
as at March 31 were £3,871,298 after paying the
current dividend. That is, reckoning the Govern-
ment’s million as capital, which can now fairly be
done. This is little more than £5 of the public’s
money for every £1 of shareholders’ funds; so the
public’s money is very well protected, and will be
protected still better presently. And of the public’s
and other money no less than £12,590,186 is liquid;
and that is a very safe proportion, too. Altogether,
the bank’s position, as exemplified by the figures, is
so good that nobody could reasonably ask that any
bank’s position should be better. The only fly in the
butter is the country’s tendency to borrow impru-
dently and lay upon itself a burden too heavy to bear
when the markets for its produce become for any
reason unfavorable or in the event of bad local
conditions.
* * » *
Pbovident Life Assurance Co., of
Maoriland, but doing business also in Australia: —
Expenses Total Carried to
Total andDivi- Out- Assurance
June, Income. Claims, dends. goings' Fund. Deficit.
1901. . £10,738 £3,332 £6,205 £9,537 £1,201 £396
Assur-
ance
Fund.
1902.. 12,237 3,907 7,231 11,138 1,099 703
Capital forfeited . . . . 20 723
1903.. 13,472 3,988 7,791 11,779 1,693 2,416
Taken over from old co. . . 612 3,028
Dec.,
1904.. 15,289 3,434 8,449 11,883 3,406 6,434
1905.. 15,826 ’ 4,342 8,402 12,744 3,082 9,516
1906.. 18,350 3,650 10,793 14,443 3,907 13,423
1907.. 20,357 4,375 11,775 16,150 4,207 17,630
Premiums on 9500 new shares, 1,328 18,958
1908.. 34,675 4,586 15,483 20,069 14,606 33,564
1909.. 30,785 8,369 20,650 29,019 1,766 35,330
1910.. 36,342 9,118 23,168 32,286 4,056 39,386
Premiums on 5000 new shares, 1,000 40,386
1911.. 42,006 9,137 23,781 32,918 9,088 49,474
Premiums on 5000 new shares, 970 50,444
1912.. 46,696 12,011 25,562 37,573 9,123 59,567
Premiums on 3000 new shares, 1,656 61,223
1913.. 51,388 12,323 28,387 40,710 10,678 71,901
To those funds the following are to be added: Capi-
tal, £21,000 ; assets written up on revaluation,
£3240. This makes the total on the co.’s showing,
£97,041, less £9OO or thereabouts required to pay
the year’s 5 p.c. dividend. This year the accounts
for the three deoartments are separated for the first
time; the figures that matter may be shown this
way
Ordinary. Accident. Industrial.
Premiums . . . . £BB3O £B6 £38,766
Other income .. 970 2,721
Claims . . .. 1858 13 10,453
Expenses ... .. 2339 24 25,796
Year’s surplus .. 5603 49 5,238
The exes, above shown include the dividend actually
paid during last year. The additions made to re-
serves, according to the first table, are £10,678.
According to the other figures the total is £10,890,
the difference being due to the growth of the divi-
dend on account of the increase of the capital.
It is only of late years that attention has been
given to Ordinary business, and the Accident branch
is quite new. A first quinquennial valuation now
made of the policies in the Ordinary branch show an
actuarial surplus of £2005, which goes 10 p.c. to
the shareholders and 90 p.c. to the policy-holders.
It is right enough that shareholders should get a
cut provided they guarantee that the policy-holders’
business shall be done at a certain maximum rate
—in other words, if they guarantee that the business
shall be exceptionally well and economically managed.
It will, however, be seen chat the expenses last year
amounted to no less than 26 p.c. of the total pre-
mium income, and there is no economy about that.
Medical expenses alone amounted to very nearly 5
p.c. of the total premiums. The co. will have to do
a lot better to justify any cut into the surplus;
shareholders, for the present, should be very well
satisfied with their 5 p.c. dividend —charged, by the
way, to the Industrial branch, which is right enough,
because, apparently, the Industrial insurer gets a
fixed contract. That contract may be a poor one;
most likely it is. It could hardly be anything else
when the year’s expenses in that branch absorb
£25,796 of the total premium income of £38,766.
Some day a scheme may be devised (Lloyd George
has had a shot at it in England) whereby the work-
ing man may get fairly cheap insurance. But he will
never get it so long as agents have to chase round
and put in hours snaring a policy to bring in only
fourpence a fortnight, and another hour or so collect-
ing the poor little premium.
What was said just now regarding the unwisdom
of paying out even £2OO of the actuarial surplus to
shareholders on account of the Ordinary branch is
strengthened by the method adopted by the actuary
in arriving at the surplus. “As is well known,” he
says, “the expenses of a life assurance co. arise prin-
cipally through the procuration of new business, and
unless some allowance is made to counteract this
unequal distribution of expense, an injustice would
be done to the early policy-holders.” Therefore in
making his calculations he has assumed that whole-
life insurers entered at one year older and have
been exposed to risk for one year less than is actually
the case. He thus bases his calculation (by which
he arrives at his surplus) on an assumption that they
are paying more premiums than they actually are
paying, and (apparently) that there is a longer
period ahead of them wherein the necessary reserves
may be accumulated. Somewhat similar assumptions
are made with regard to the other classes of policy.
Presumably all this is quite within the law. Whether
it is a practice which ought to be encouraged is
quite another matter.
As for security—the first consideration with an in-
surance office —no doubt whatever need at present
arise. Besides the insurance funds there is £21,000
of share capital to guarantee the contracts; and the
funds (assuming that the mortgage loans are all
right) are a very good lot. Having their own money
at stake the shareholders may be trusted to see that
no unnecessary risks are taken with either their own
money or the policy-holders’ money which they cover
by guarantee. - -
The Intercolonial Investment, Land
and Building Co. (Sydney) :
To Re-
Oct , Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves-
-1901 .. £4,911 7 p.c. =£2,448 £2,463 £23,677
1902 . . 5,261 7 „ „ 2,537 2,724 26,401
1903 . 5,900 74 ~ ~ 2,762 3,138 29,539
1904 6 591 9* „ „ 3,355 3,236 32,775
1905 ’. . 7,639 10 „ „ 3,792 3,847- 36,622 -
1906 . . 8,952 12$ „,, 4,742 4,210 40,832
1907 . . 9,249 10 „ „ 4,126 5,123 45,955
1908 . . 9,535 12£ ~ „ 5,659 3,876 49,831
1909 .. 12,018 12$ „ „ 5,836 6,182 56,013
1910 . . 13,691 10 „ „ 5,190 8,501 64,514
Transferred to capital, £5807 .. 58,707
1911 .. 24,624 10 p.c. = 6,301 18,323 77,030
Transferred to capital, £9670 . . 67,360
1912 . . 33,737 16 p.c. = 12,760 20,977 88,337
Transferred to capital, £9308 .. 79,029
1913 . . 35,351 12$ p.c.= 11,209 24,142 103,171
Transferred to capital, £39,774 .. 63,397
April, Cash bonus distributed, £145 •• 68,252
1914 .. 14,382 9 p.c. = 5,896 8,486 71,738
Six months ago it was decided to issue one new share
paid to 17s. 6d. for every two old ones of £l, or
the old shareholders could draw the bonus in cash.
Apparently only £145 was drawn in money. This
and the £39.774 of capital credited to shareholder,
reduced the equalisation reserve from £40,000 to
£Bl The co. has had a wonderful run ot tat
years G*«d seasons, the borrowing boom, the gradu-
ated land tax, unimproved-values (municipal) taxa-
tion, the centralisation madness—blessings and curses
alike played into its hands. When national prosper-
ity—partly real and partly artificial looked in, the
Intercolonial was fortunately in a position to take
advantage of it. The co. wasn’t lumbered up with
unsaleable properties. With its then-moderate re-
sources it bought suburban paddocks at prices which
wouldn’t have been looked at but for the new Federal
and municipal taxation, and it found a house-hungry
crowd anxious to buy and pay for assistance to
build. And the boom has lasted not. for months, .but
for years; so that the profits put aside against con-
tingencies have been available for conversion into
capital and for other purposes. There will be an
end to it, no doubt; the building boom will stop and
the gambling in empty suburban allotments will
collapse. Meantime the harvest continues, and this
co. seems to be taking reasonable precautions against
being caught and left with vast quantities of unsold
blocks. Freehold properties stand for only £67,164
in the books, and that includes the co.’s fine new
city freehold. The other risk is in borrowers’ and
purchasers’ balances, £204,226. The size of this risk
depends mainly on (1) how pronounced the slump is,
and (2) how long the purchasers and borrowers have
been paying off when it arrives. The next slump
isn’t' likely to be a very sudden one: it won’t be
like, the collapse of the last boom, which was due
not merely to the stoppage of borrowing, but mainly
to the sudden demand for large repayments. With
ordinary luck, the co. shouldn't therefore have big
losses'hidden in this £204,226. The other assets
are chiefly cash ; and the aggregate of all asset items
is £279,076 —less the dividend now payable. This
total is represented on the other side by £131,017
of capital, £77,634 of reserves and £70,425 of
deposits and sundry liabilities—the latter very mod-
erate, all things considered.
The Maoriland Government Life In-
surance Department:—
Added
Claims Provided to In-
and Sur- Ex- against De- surance
Dec., Revenue, renders, penses preciation. Fund.
1900.. £423,700 £219,993 £61,431 £142,276
1901.. 460,753 256,100 £59,194 145,459
1902. . 451,348 271,268 59,895 £22,783 97,402
.1903.. 463,380 269,413 64,723 129,244
1904.. 480,716 266,704 60,490 153,522
1905.. 490,924 263,148 63,829 6,953 156,994
1906.. 507,070 270,220 67,828 169,022
1907.. 526,712 304,230 66,670 155,812
1908.. 534,440 328,763 20,000 117,274
1909.. 546,566 333.990 72,120 140,456
1910.. 561,151 340,028 71,534 149,589
1911.. 594,410 344,957 74,213 30,000 145,240
1912.. 590,314 378,653 82.489 129,172
1913.. 600,068 367,673 81,405 150,990
This office limits its operations to Maoriland ; and
that is a handicap. Perhaps it wouldn’t be so much
of a handicap if it had started early enough. -But
it didn’t take down its shutters until 1870, and by
then Maoriland had got well into the habit of turn-
ing into other offices when it wanted to take out a
life policy. Moreover, those competitors were mostly
mutual, with ho shareholders to call in for divi-
dends. What dividends there were forthcoming in
such offices the policy-holders themselves got—and
still get. In this respect, the State Life Office differs
from the State Fire Office. The latter can reasonably
ask the intending insurer whether he sees Any fun
in paying premiums to go into the pockets of share-
holders when he might get just as good, or better,
protection from the State’s own offioe, which isn’t
out after dividends. The Life Office cannot make any
such appeal, and has, therefore, a pretty hard row to
hoe. Amongst a certain number of people there is
no doubt a feeling that this is Maoriland’s own office,
and that the Maorilander ought to turn to it auto-
matically when he wants insurance. But the remark-
able loyalty of Maorilanders to Maoriland doesn’t ex-
tend to the State Life Office, which is part of Maori-
land.
For the foregoing reasons the expense rate is much
higher than it should be. In proportion to total
income- the outgoings, apart from claims, have in
recent years moved as follows: —■
Expenses in Proportion to Total Income.
1903 .. £l3 19 4 p.c. | 1909 .. £l3 3 10 p.c.
1904 .. 12 11 8 „ 1910 .. 12 14 11 „
1905 . . 13 0 0 ~ 1911 . . 12 9 8,,
1906 . . 13 7 6 „ 1912 . . 13 19 6,,
1907 .. 12 13 2 „ 1913 .. 13 11 3 „
1908 . . 12 16 0 „
But the expense of getting new business is higher
even than those figures would suggest. Following the
admittedly arbitrary rule of assuming that the old
business cost 7 p.c. of the renewal premiums, and
that annuity and single-premium business cost 3 p.c..
then, charging the new business with the balance of
the expenses, it will be found that the latter cost 211
p.c. of the first-year premiums. This is more _ than
twice as much as- the best ■ Australian experience.
Curiously enough, the very strength of Maoriland is
partly responsible for this high cost. In N. S. Wales
nearly one-half the-population throngs into the capi-
tal city, and it is the same with Victoria and S.
Australia. Maoriland, on the other hand, has four
cities —Wellington, Auckland, . Christchurch and
Dunedin—almost of a size to be put into one class,
with Wanganui, Invercargill and others of very re-
spectable dimensions scattered' round the long . coast-
line. This means an expensive hunt for new business.
And there is another point. If 7 p.c. is a fair thing
to charge on old business, as a rule, it is less than
a fair thing to charge in Maoriland on account of
the heavy taxation which the accumulated funds have
to carry there. This office, with its investments con-
fined wholly or almost wholly to its. own country, has
to pay more than 4 p.c. of its annual premium in-
come "in taxation, whereas in N. S. Wales the A M.P.
pavs, as nearly as can be-figured, less.than lj p.c.
This naturally doesn’t make things any easier for-the
M.L. State Office.
It may be also that the fact that the population is
scattered —a good thing from the national point of
view—has something to do with the lapse rate being
much higher than it should be. Ea'gt year 3768 new
policies were written and 2883 were discontinued, of
■yvhich no less than 1153 lapsed of were forfeited,
while 706 were surrendered for cash. Much of the
lapsing is probably due to “twisting””, the canvasser
of some other office gets in his wre'ched work, and
'there isn’t another canvasser from''tnis'“"office handy
to undo the mischief. As for the surrenders, the
Maoriland habit of borrowing is doubtless mainly
responsible for their excessive number. It is more
than a habit; it is a disease. It* is Worth noting;
by the way, that whereas only 158 whole-life policies
lapsed out of a total of 544 discontinued, 970 endow-
ment policies lapsed out. of a total of 2199 discon-
tinued. This points to one of two things—or per-'
haps to both of the things. The endowment policy
(the policy payable at a certain age or at previous
death) appeals to a whole lot of people as being a
provision for their old age as well as an insurance
in the event of early death.- But this kind of double
insurance has to be paid for; the premiums are much
higher than for a whole-life policy. And the higher
premiums often become too burdensome to maintain.
The whole-life policy doesn’t have nearly the atten-
tion it deserves. For a young man, whose object
should be to get the last possible ounce of insurance
he can in return. for the limited payments he can
afford, it should be the whole-life policy every time.
That is, presuming he is healthy and can get one.
The other less favored fellow, whom an office may
reckon good enough .to live to (say) 55, but not to
last till the full average time expected of one at
his age, must be content with the endowment policy.
That is one point. The other is that, on the whole,
an insurance canvasser, when dealing with a not very
provident “case,” can make a stronger appeal with
an endowment than a whole-life policy. Which
means, of course, that there is a stronger probabilitv
that more endowment than whole-life policies will
be dropped.
If the M.L. State Office is handicapped by a heavy
expense rate, it has, anyhow, the advantage of very
good interest earnings. The average on the assurance
and fluctuation investment funds combined was last
year £4 12s. lOd. p.c. The weakest feature about
this is that as much as-61 p.c. of the total assets
are represented by mortgages; and mortgages, besides
costing a good deal of money to manage (which adds
to the expense rate), may be good, bad or indifferent.
A stronger point in favor of ihe office is the excep-
tionally fine death-rate of Maoriland. It is so good,
in fact, that, other things being equaTT the Maori-
lander would be a fool who had anything to do
any office which took into it people who lived in any
other country.
* * * *
The Maoriland Government Accident
Insurance : „
Carried to To
Reserve General Total
Gross Gross for Unex- Re- Re-
Inoome. Profit, pired Risks, serves, serves.
1901 .. £11,897 £4096 £3780 £316 £4,096
1902 . . 14,171 931 240 691 5,02/
1903 .. 24,449 4758 4510 248 9,/8o
1904 . . 24,188 5418 978 4440 15,203
1905 .. 24,876 6572 80 6492 21,/7a
1906 .. 21,929 1604 1604 23,379
1907 . . 22,835 4901 4901 28,280
1908 .. 22,688 4094 4094 32,3/4
1909 . . 28,515 8528 2264 6264 40,902
1910 . . 23,907 4764 4764 45,666
1911 .. 23,612 6222 6222 51,888
1912 . . 26,733 7448 7448 59,336
Written Off.
1913 . . 26,865 7874 377 7497 66,833
This branch of the M.L. Government Insurance De-
partment was established in 1900, imqjediately after
the passing of the Workmen’s Compensation Act.
Under that law compensation runs up to £5OO in the
ease of a fatal accident, and for sick benefits follow-
ing a non-fatal accident the employer is also liable
up to a similar total amount. These payments are a
first-mortgage on the employer’s property. As the
individual employer couldn’t be expected to face
financial risks of that size, he was offered the pro-
tection of this office. The premiums were made as
low as the actuaries could possibly fix them, having
regard to the uncertainty and skimpiness of the only
data available. The rates vary, of course, according
to the occupation of the employee; the lowest is
about 4s. p.c. of the wages paid and the highest
(bush-felling) £5 ss. 6d. p.c. The law, as said
just now, makes the compensation charges a first
mortgage on an employer’s property ; hence ordinary
mortgagees found themselves taking second instead of
first place. For a very small premium—something
like 6d. p.c. of the loan, in most cases—the mort-
gagee can also get covered by this office. Business
isn’t growing fast now ; as a matter of fact, perhaps
there isn’t much new business to get. Still, even as
they stand, the figures are excellent. Profits have
been good—so good, indeed, that, with very decent
reserves now accumulated, the question may fairly
arise whether the tables could not be made here and
there still more liberal.
The next list shows what has become of the
revenue: —-
Claims. Expenses. Reserves.
1902 ..£5119 3 p.c. £4l 9 4 p.c. £6 11 5 p.c.
1903 .. 54 2 3 „ 26 8 6 „ 19 9 3 „
1904 . . 50 1 3 „ 27 11 3 „ 22 7 6 „
1905 . . 45 310 ~ 28 7 9 „ 26 8 5 „
1906 . . 62 11 4 „ 30 2 3,, 7 6 5 „
1907 .. 49 8 8 „ 29 2 1 „ 21 9 3 „
1908 . . 52 11 4 „ 29 710 „ 18 010 „
1909 .. 44 18 0 ~ 25 3 7 „ 29 18 5 „
1910 .. 52 7 7 „ 27 14 0 „ 19 18 5 „
1911 . . 44 9 1 „ 29 311 „ 26 7 0 „
1912 . . 44 19 2 „ 27 310 „ 27 17 0 „
1913 . . 44 15 7 „ 27 18 3 „ 29 6 2 „
The accumulated funds are now the only capital;
the Treasury advance with which the office started
has been repaid. The interest earnings on the accu-
mulations last year were a very handy £3587 ;
practically all this came from mortgages, in which
the office invests almost exclusively. It is a doubtful
practice, mortgages not being the sort of security
that you can realise in a hurry. Still that doesn't
matter quite so much with an accident as with a
fire office. An accident happening to one man isn’t
usually liable to cause an accident to another man,
and so on through a thousand.
* * * *
The Argus Permanent Building and
Investment Society (Melbourne) : —-
Written To Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1900 .. £472 Nil £440 £32 £l5BO
1901 .. 1275 Nil 1762 1093
1902 .. 1494 3 p.c. =£sos 1113 - 969
1903 .. 1607 3 „ „ 505 963 139 1108
1904 . . 1466 3 „ „ 505 973 1096
1905 . . 926 3 ~ ~ 505 490 - 1027
1906 .. 1133 4 „ „ 673 199 261 1288
1907 . . 1447 5 ~ ~ 841 269 337 1625
1908 .. 1894 6 „,, 1010 475 409 2034
1909 . . 1918 6 ~ ~ 1056 209 653 2687
1910 .. 2076 7 „ „ 1308 141 627 3314
1911 2035 7 „ „ 1474 157 404 3718
1912 1988 7 „ „ 1542 318 128 3846
1913 . . 2241 7 „,, 1549 145 547 4393
1914 . . 2460 7,, ~ 1568 892 5285
The Argus Co., formed in 1888, was one of the mul-
titude of building societies hatched out by the hot
air with which the Melbourne land boom was inflated.
Most of them are dead now, but the few that are
alive are getting their punch back on the strength
of the recent rise in values. In 1907 this one felt
well enough to take a little new mortgage business,
and since then its advances have moved in this
fashion (with 1904 thrown in for comparison) : 1904,
£37,441; 1907, £42,665; 1909, £48,074; 1914,
£56,065. To finance this business the capital (written
down to £22,462) has the help of a fair amount of
outside money, as this table shows: —
1902. 1912. 1913. 1914.
Capital .. .. £16,825 £22,113 £22,336 £22,464
Deposits and other
liabilities . . 16,539 33,695 33,683 30,718
Advances, etc. . . 33,863 56,831 56,475 56,065
Other assets . . 986 4,401 5,502 4,033
Of the £30,715 owing by the co. £7060 consists oi
a mortgage. On the foregoing figures it is manifest
that securities on which the advances are made could
shrink by more than one-half before the depositors’
money would be endangered. The growth of ad-
vances has not been at all rapid, which is a rather
good sign. Provided instalments have been kept
paid, it.isn’t the long-standing advances that cause
trouble in building societies; it is the later ones,
made on inflated values,- and on which fewer repay-
ments have been made. Hence the larger the propor-
tion of new advances the greater the danger. This
•year only £2B has been written off as lost on the
disposal of the old properties left on the co.’s hands;
the previous year it was £BO4. There won’t be
much more to be written off on that score, inas-
much as the entire book-value of properties in pos-
session is stated to be only £1748.
* * * *
“Marinoa”: The efforts of the Northern
(Newcastle) Miners’ Federation to get the Southern
(Illawarra) miners to make common cause with
them in their fight for the abolition of the after-
noon shift threatens to be successful, judged by
opinions vented at the various lodge meetings. Yet
why should the Southern men do this foolish thing?
The Northern Federation has some sort of justifica-
tion for fighting against the afternoon shift, which
deprives men from partaking of ordinary social
pleasures. In their district the shift is worked with
the object of hewing coal. On the South Coast, how-
ever, there are very few mines where a second shift
is worked at all, and then only for the purpose of
development or for the more rapid extraction of pil-
lars, etc. No coal is hauled, and any that is won
merely goes to fill up gaps on the rope, and thus
prevent a dislocation of the haulage machinery.
The miners on the South Coast have recently been
granted substantial increases, and at present are
enjoying conditions which a few years ago were
undreamt of; and, generally speaking, they are
pretty well off. Why should they sacrifice many
thousands of pounds in wages while punishing cos.
which have already conceded what the Northern
men demand?


The Mutual Life s Citizens’
Assurance Company Ltd.
(“THE M.L.C.”)
ASSETS EXCEED.. .. ..£8,750,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS.. £1,400,000
THE COMPANY TRANSACTS
Ordinary Life Assurance,
Intermediate Life Assurance,
Industrial Life Assurancs,
Personal Accident Insurance, and
Combined Life 8 Accident Insurance.
All the
leading: Mines
and Workshops
in this Country use
DUNLOP
MINING & ENGINEERING
Experience having proved that our
Belts, Hoses, Packings, etc., have no
equal for Quality and Price.
Samples & Tenders Submitted.
Lists on Application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney.
a*
JWe read this graphic paragraph in a leading journal
tflPother day: “Broadly speaking, the only way you
can get more business (and profits) is to utilise your
working time to better advantage ***.” You can use
fully the working time of every pulley in your plant
—can keep it “hard at” turning your working time
into profits—by equipping all your machine drives
with “Pioneer” leather belting. The centre cuts of
flawless Australian ox hides form the foundation
of every “Pioneer” belt, and we build and guarantee
efficiency in every foot. Let us send you a sample
length of Pioneeer leather belting—write to our near-
est office —“Pioneer” is made only by J. C. Ludowici
and Son Ltd., Pioneer Works, 117 York Street, Syd-
ney (opp. Q. V. Markets) ; and sold in Victoria by
Geo. Russell Pty. Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne; in
South Australia by J. McKell, Timpson Street, Port
Adelaide; in Queeensland by Queensland Machinery
Co. Ltd., Brisbane; in W. Australia, by Horace Sum-
mers, Howard Street, Perth; in Broken Hill by Geo.
C. Dempster, Argent Street.*
i * * *
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which glv.es the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
* * * *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow i6in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [2
Extract from Financier, dated London, Septem-
ber 2. 1911: “The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society is. well recognised as an institution which
typifies the enterprise and energy of the land of its
birth, and not only in Australasia but in Great
Britain and South Africa it hhs proved itself one
of the most progressive of the great Life Offices.”*
* * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is being used in the big-
gest undertakings. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., holds contracts under all the State Govern-
ments. Catalogue will be supplied upon applications
by the company at their Head Office, 57 York Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
Mr. R. O’Hara, Glen Innes, writes: “I have much
pleasure in advising you that I have now used the
3i-b.h.p. Hornsby Stationary Oil Engine for the
past eight seasons, shearing over 130,000 sheep, some
of the shearers tallying over 200 sheep per day, the
average 168£ per man. During the whole time 1
have had the engine in use it has never given the
slightest trouble, and not a moment has been lost,
the shearers stating that they have never experienced
such a smooth-running engine.”—R. Hornsby & Sons,
Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane.* [1
* * » #
The highest returns for all kinds of residues are
obtained from Harrington’s Ltd., of 386 George-
street, Sydney, who buy large quantities of jewellers’
sweeps, polishings, handwash and lemel, process
workers’ residues, plating baths and any other
materials containing gold, silver or platinum. Assays
are executed for jewellers within two or three hours,
and prospectors and others are assured of immediate
attention. All kinds of analytical and metallurgical
work can be executed promptly, and advice given on
all branches of industrial chemistry and metallurgy.
The whole of the work is directed by a qualified
analyst and metallurgist from Johnson & Sons, Lon-
don, Assayers and Refiners to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, the Council of India, etc., etc. Direct
shipments of large parcels of sweeps, residues, ores,
etc., can be sent direct to Johnson & Sons by arrange-
ment.*
+ * *■ *
J. Malcolm Newman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
CLAUDE BRISTOW, Assaver and Analytical
Chemist. Sampling supervised. 93 Pitt Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
Patents.—Have you an idea worth patenting ? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.*
* In addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast Iron Pipes, Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Pro-
prietary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo-
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron--
work of every description.*
* * * «
Mine managers when requiring new Steam Boilers'
are. invited to communicate with Babcock & Wilcox,.
Ltd 1 .,, whQj have supplied’ their Patent Safety Water-
tube Boifers to, the majority of leading mines in
Australia.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand samnle grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balaim 3 sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles: chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Poldi Steel
A GUARANTEE FOR LONG LIFE IN M3TOR-CAR GEARS.
T»hone
CITY-8332.
171 Clarence Street, Sydney. [5
N.S.W. mining loses a good man in L. O.
U'ilkinsbn, late of Stawcll (Vic.), who pioneered low-
grade ore-treatment in that part. He has just been
sent for by a Maorilaiid crowd to see what he can
do with a big low-grade proposition they have a
few miles from Wellington. The show. is said to be
somewhat similar to the Stawell “Big Hill, an . l /
if it is Wilkinson should know what to do with it
—none better. #
N.S.W. exported minerals worth £2,754,990
for the first quarter of this year. Lead concentrates
are valued at £918,356, coal at £880,534, zinc con-
hentrates £372,314, copper £308,444, tin £110,840,
lead £92,387, silver £72,218. The value of the
zinc and lead is not the value of those metals con-
tained in the concentrates, but the value of the con-
centrates before their final treatment.
* * * *
At the Vegetable Creek (N.S.W.) two
shafts are going down through the basalt in search
of more tin. Skinner’s shaft is down about 132 ft.,
and the Strathbogie about 113 ft. They should both
bottonl before the shareholders’ meeting is held.
There has been talk of about 200 tons of black tin
being now in sight. Well, even 200 tons isn’t a
12 months’ supply at the present rate of production.
Then, unless the price jumps, there isn’t any cer-
tainty that 200 tons of black tin will pay off the
debt and enable the directors to hand out as much
as a little Is. per share. The market evidently ex-
pects that a credit balance of from £5OOO to £6OOO
should bring forth a dividend ; but the prospecting
and development scheme just entered into will mop
up a lot of money, even if one of the new shafts
should drop on a rich part of the lead. There is
also talk of a pup float; but that is anticipating a
pothole containing 1001 b. per cub. yard.
* * * *
Adelong Gold Estates (N.S.W.) starts
the current half-year with a debit of £lB4B at profit
and loss. Ask how it arises, and a hard voice shouts,
“Clay!” The tally of the gold for the six months
closing on April 30 was £6734. As £4023 was
needed for repairs, replacements, etc., there wasn’t
much chance to dig profits out of such a return. It
looks as if costs, even at the best, will cut into about
50oz. per dredge per week, especially if the
clay zone isn’t left behind as work proceeds. There’s
a grumble by manager George at the plant. Per-
haps he is right; but his predecessor Henry might
like to be heard, all the same. The Board appears
to be not very sure whether the clay trouble has
been overcome, for it is careful to say “the general
manager reports.” A clause of this kind keeps a
man right up in the collar. Though it may not be
nice, the Board is on the right track in getting rid
of the debenture debt. The present call of Is. will
force the total down to Is. Then a bit of luck on
to free ground would enable the Fatman bond-holders
to be bowed off the scene.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe (W.A.) has issued
another annual statement of its position. This time
it professes to have £25,000 cash, to owe £31,000,
and to have 715,000 tons of Bdwt. reserves. Taking
the recoverable value of the reserves at 305., which
is probably more than will be obtained, and estimate
ing total expenditure at 255. per ton, which is not
likely to be over the mark, this leaves a profit in
sight of about 12s. per share. Seeing the market quo-
tation for the stock is now about 425., it is obvious
that the mine will have to put on a lot of condition
very soon, or run the risk of suffering a further big
depreciation on ’Change. The surprising feature is
that it bears up so well. Last year’s accounts are
reported to show a surplus of £5BOO, after deduct-
ing the ss. dividend and redeeming! £12,000 of the
debenture debt.
* * * *
A Laverton whisper says that the first
Teturn from the Melbourne-owned Augusta averaged
■only 12s. per ton. This is the show which has more
than once been described here as a failure, and was
reckoned to have only a short shoot of ore. Its
admirers, however, thought differently; thus about
the middle of last year one of the directors, after
visiting the mine, declared there was enough 15dwt.
stuff in sight to keep a 10-head mill going for 18
■months. Less than three months ago the manager
reported 19, 24 and 33 dwt. assays, and another of
the directors who was on the spot at the time con-
firmed this. If the 12s. recovery is right, what’s the
matter? The Augusta is an old venture. The Golden
■Rhine prospected it to 300 ft., and obtained £47,000
from 15,000 tons. The mine was then abandoned, and
lay idle for some years. A party of working miners
next came along, opened levels at 400 ft. and 500 ft.,
.and won a fair amount of p’old. Having’ got every-
thing they could, they cleared out, and now grin at
.the stories told to shareholders.
Extracts from an official circular solicit-
ing capital for the further development of Bronco
Horseshoe (W.A.): “The directors have decided to
•offer to shareholders only 200 of the. reserve £lO
shares at £2O apiece. . . .The original vendors have
generously surrendered 200 fully-paid shares to be
■given as a bonus to each applicant in the proportion
•of one share for each share applied f0r.... Develop-
ment work done on one of the co.’s six leases has
■proved that there is an immense ore body with
•enriched parts ranging from 14s. to 3205. per ton.
In No. 1 shaft at the 200 ft. level a good supply of
-water was struck, which is of the highest importance
when a battery is erected.... From various reports,
including an advance one from the Government Geolo-
gist, your directors feel assured of the value and
■magnitude of the ore deposit on the property.” In-
formation. supplied by other people is entirely differ-
•ent. Their figures indicate that the average value is
■as poor as Lazarus, and that the rich ore got in the
•shaft and elsewhere was mere specimen stone. What
Bronco Horseshoe shareholders ought to insist on is a
•systematic sampling of the mine by an engineer of
standing. The acceptance of the chairmanship of the
Board by ex-Minister for Mines Gregory is looked
fupon as an indication that the co. means well, and
one of the. best ways of giving proof of this would be
for it to rise to the occasion in the manner indicated.
* * * *
Golden Butterfly (W.A.) is having a hard
■struggle to keep afloat. During May it obtained
£l6OO from the treatment plant, but after paying
out it had only £3 left. Inability to get at the
principal sweetening patch in the mine is said to
have largely contributed to this result, and the June
-surplus is expected to be much better. However,
some expense or other is always turning up when it
is not wanted, and what with this and that outlay
the co. never seems able to get ahead of it. Like
a lot of other small company-owned mines it supplies
“employment for a number of wages and salary men
and helps to keep the pub and store going, but is
•not able to do anything for shareholders.
Mararoa lias abandoned its option at
Holden’s Find (W.A.) and left the field. Other people
are doing the same thing, and others again are ask-
ing what has become of all the rich veins that Ade-
laide was raving about a few months ago and boom-
ing when this paper wasn’t. It is surely time some-
thing was done by the Westralian Labor Government
to prevent any further black marks of this sort being
placed against the mining industry over there. Wty,t
with Bullfinch, Holden’s Find and a dozen others
that have impoverished the public during the past
few years, the industry has a murky enough appear-
ance already, and cannot afford to. be further
smudged.
Ominous telegram received by. the direc-
tors from the manager of the Adelaide Enterprise
lease at Kalgoorlie: “Mine too poor to continue regu-
lar crushing, and too patchy to make profitable work-
ing certain.” About this property a Bulletin man
wrote in B. 7/5/’l4: “Hard to understand what the
syndicate working this show is building on.” He is
. still puzzled despite the belief of the directors and
their friends that the mine will make good.
A Tasmanian syndicate has acquired the
Macquarie leases at the north end of the main Meeka-
tharra line of reef (W.A.). Some 13,000 tons of ore
have already been taken out oF the property and
crushed for a fair return, and there is a decent ton-
nage of partially-developed stone. The deepest work-
ings are at 127 ft., which is water level.
* * * *
Black Range West (W.A.) is breaking
ore at 500 ft. where the reef is locally reckoned to
be from 6ft. to Bft. wide. This month 500 tons is to
be put through the neighboring Oroya Black Range
mill.
Queensland easily heads the Australian
States in the production of tin. Last year it ac-
counted for 3164 out of the total of under 4000 tons.
This was a drop of 33 tons on the 1912 figures. Her-
berton, Charters Towers and Etheridge gave less;
Kangaroo Hills, Stanthorpe and Cooktown gave more.
Stanthorpe increased its output by 50 p.c.-, and eight
dredges are now on the field. This district has pro-
duced tin for 40 years, and its alluvial is only now
being properly attacked. Of the 103,000 tons pro-
duced in the world, the Straits Settlements were
responsible for more than half, a good deal of it
obtained by Australian cos. operating there.
Gilmore Tin (N.Q.) has had a good devel-
opment in No. 1 north of the old Dolly Grey work-
ings. Ore carrying from 15 p.c. to 20 p.c. black tin
was struck at a depth of 45ft., and 20 tons have been
raised. Very little has, however, actually been
proved. A show much liked in the north is the Black
Diamond, near the Silver Valley. Toval Petersen dis-
covered this rich shoot, and recently put through a
crushing of 17 tons for 5} tons of black tin worth
£9B per ton, which spells over £3O per ton
of ore. Vulcan’s last return (for 28 days)
was respectable—62s tons for 33 tons 18cwt. of con-
centrates valued at £2060 —but prospects in most por-
tions of the mine are less hopeful than they were.
The men who have stuck to the idea that
there is oil 4000 ft. or so under Roma (Q.) are stir-
ring themselves again, and intend to stir the public
soon. From No. 2 bore, put down 3700 ft. or so,
much gas has escaped. Now, the question is, where
did that gas come from? One lot of geologists, who
won’t have it that Australia can show an oilfield, anwser
that the source of the gas is a coal bed. To that
the reply of the faithful is—“ Here are the official
analyses of the gas. Did you ever know coal gas to
show 5 p.c. benzine series and 82.4 p.c. paraffin
series?” The gas flow has stopped; but that doesn’t
discourage the Roma people after taking the best
advice they can get from America. The idea is that
a weighty gasometer into which the flow was led
checked it. and led to the choking of the bore (which
had already been partly choked by tools). Anyhow,
here are the facts. Gas in large quantities has flowed
out of the Roma bore, and this gas is much more
likely, on the analyses, to have come from oil than
anything else. And since the discovery of an oil-
field is of tremendous value to Australia, the possi-
bilities of Roma certainly ought to be investigated
by some body.
The Adelaide people who own the Lass o’
Gowrie continue to find it one of the most persistent
tin mines in North Queensland; From one shoot the
old co. took about £130,000 worth of tin ore, but
couldn’t go below 300 ft. on account of the heavy
water. The present owners have put in a tunnel
575 ft., primarily to drain this old shoot, and inci-
dentally to pick it up at a somewhat lower level than
it was formerly worked. In the end of the working they
have got into ore similar to that found above —good,
clean stuff worth from 30 p.c. to 40 p.c. oxide. It is
not wide; but, still, from 18in. to 2ft. of 30 pc. ore
is worth going a long way to get. At latest advices
they were Bft. into this ore in the tunnel. Simul-
taneously, a rise has been put up to the old work-
ings, and has drained them. During the driving of
the tunnel another ore body was found, but it isn’t of
the same quality as the other ; in places it has been
rich (up to 35 p.c.), but it is heavily charged with
arsenical pyrites, which means roasting. About 300
tons of this ore was got out from and around a winze,
and realised something like £BOOO. There are
in the dumps about 8500 tons of 2 p.c. ore. This
will not pay to handle at present; but when a bat-
tery is constructed, and with tin at £143, it should
show a profit of (say) £1 per ton. A crushing is
now going through—loo tons of second-grade ore
from the different stopes that will go about 16 p.c.
Considerable excavation worki has been done at the
mouth of the tunnel, where a jigging plant, engine
and other necessary appliances have been erected. A
mill is under consideration; a 10-head seems war-
ranted. J. 11. Campbell is in charge; and, now that
the rich ore has been found below the old workings,
he appears to be quite justified in taking a very
cheerful view of the prospects.
Gympie has revived a trifle on the
strength of better prospects along the Columbia line
of reef. No. 3 North crushed 344 tons for 6240 z.,
and has paid a sixpenny on 64,000 shares. They are
stoping above the south level at 1656 ft., and continue
the level in good country, with lOin. of quartz show-
ing at the end. Some specimens have been picked
out. Other recent returns: Scottish Gympie, 7000
tons for 1900 oz. ; No. 1 North Columbia Smithfield,
375 tons for 1420 z.; MacLeod’s New Wilmot, 551
tons for 3550 z. An old Sydney market horse, the
South Glanmire and Monkland, is stronger because it
is hoped that development work east of the shaft at
the 821 ft. level will pick up the reef worked in the
adjoining lease. A crosscut is being driven with that
object. There is favorable slate country in this
vicinity, and when a leader or reef is met with in
conjunction with black slate Gympie becomes inter-
ested. At the 990 ft. level east of the shaft they are
working a small leader carrying-gold, but it is too
small a streak by itself to sustain a big co.
Charters Towers is also a trifle more cheer-
ful. Late crushings: Brilliant Deeps, 286 tons
for £962; Queen’s Cross, 277 tons, £1229; Brilliant
Extended, 1566 tons, £4452. The Extended 1 made a
profit of £9Ol in six months; but prospects on the
lowest levels are no better, and the shareholders’
meeting passed without any div. Deeps are brighter
in the market because the bottom level (No. 7) is
showing better form, and it is possible the payable
shoot from No. 6 may carry down. The richest
blocKs above No. 5 have been depleted, but the co. is
busy opening up some good stone on the hanging-wall
section of the reef. Brilliant Block has made a 3d.
call, so contributing shares are low. This co. will
shortly start stoping over No. 4, where the Brilliant
Deeps stone continues into the lease. The Papuan
has had a development on the Moonstone reef, but
there isn’t much demand for shares.
At the Chiltern Valley (Vic.) the ever-
green Joe Gock has got into the wash of the gutter
in the east and north drives off No. 2 shoot. A
little patch here of 33 fathoms has given him 30oz.
gold. This average is more than sufficient to pay
good dividends if the adjoining ground does not go
back on the old man. This decent prospect has
brisked up the grumbling element in the co., and a
little issue of 2500 Reserve shares at 12s. 6d. has
been rushed. With the cash from this parcel of odds
and ends Joe Cock hopes to get a hustle on at the
claim. As its record of gold won is over the million
mark, there ought still to be a chance for him in
the deeper ground.
**‘ * *
Some Melbourne byokers want to kick
some of the directors of Cathcart Central, Ararat
(Vic.), off the Board and into Lake Wendouree for
preference. There is talk, too, of a change in the
management. These may not materialise, as
fighting James McCrorey isn’t likely to agree to any
shunting-out at this stage. Analysing the position, it
can be said, first, that if folk held on to Central
Cathcarts at 605., or even 405., they don’t deserve to
have cash even to run a motor-bike, for there hasn’t
been a gilt-edged alluvial stock worth that much in
Victoria for a couple of generations. Dodd, the
old campaigner of the Cathcart, is named as the
best starter for the opposition. This is odd, seeing
the palpitation he and George Bryant used to get up
when the idea of the Cathcart gutter passing into
the Central lease was mentioned to them. It may be
nice for some others down the gutter to have
Dodd on the Central Board, but is that best for the
Central? If a change has to be made, why not put
on an entirely new gang? Still, this isn’t what Cath-
.cart Central really needs. Its largest wants are a
regular run of gold down the gutter, less water and
no swelling ground.
Mount Bischoff (Tas.) will pass the usual
monthly dividend —a wise decision under the cir-
cumstances. The old, joyous rate of 10s. per month
deluded some people into paying £6O per share,
although even then dividends were mopping up nearly
90 p.c. of the net profit. For the half-year to Decem-
ber 31, 1913, £36,000 was paid away out of
£41,631,, and the tin market was still booming then.
Backers were hopeful of a share-splitting device, and
expected the high metal prices to see them through.
But he is a daring man who will risk much on the
tin market.
* * * *
J. Bull’s training has got Briseis (Tas.)
out of a hole. When tin was high and profits ditto,
a lot of cash was pouched for a reserve. Now the
£50,000 of reserve, makes a fine second line of
defence. In 1913 the co. made a trading profit of
£37,728, but since December 31 it has seen tin
slash down hill £4O per ton. Still, the new year
was begun with £27,000 of cash assets apart from
the reserve. To-day, Lindesay Clarke is switching
the Ringarooma River out of its course back against
his old workings. When this is done he can sluice
out the Krushka flat 100 ft. deep, and go on to the
Ringarooma lease. By that time he will have ladled
out 550,000 cub. yards of drift to get 600 tons of
black tin. In the Ringarooma flat he has to face the
removal of 1,436,000 cub. yards of overburden and
7,133,000 cub. yards of drift. Clarke estimates he
will save 4530 tons of black tin here. Beyond lies
the section of unknown gutter where there ought to
be still more tin. With the metal at £l4O the
gross value of the tin in the two blocks is
£512,000, but with the price at £2OO another
£228.000 would go on. Therefore the gamble in
Briseis is really in the metal market. Taking costs
to average £BO per ton of metallic tin all through,
there is about £200,000 in profits, at the low aver-
age of prices, in the blocks referred to. With a
500,000 share co. the scrip is about where it should
stand. - But with tin at £2OO a very different figure
would be reasonable.
* * * *
Eyre Peninsula Petroleum Co. (S.A.) has
a nominal capital of £17,500, in 350 shares of £5O.
The promoters take £5250, the hirers of the boring
plant take £lOOO, the public is asked to subscribe
for £6250, and £5OOO worth of shares are reserved.
A drill capable of going to 3500 ft. is on the way to
Kellidie Bay, an arm of Coffin’s Bay. The co. has
secured 15 sq. miles pegged by Kenneth Morrison,
who brought to Adelaide seven gallons of crude oil
alleged to have come from the neighborhood of Lake
Pilley, north of West Point, a cape on the heel of
Eyre Peninsula. Morrison’s oil is described as exuding
from the sides of a red sandstone cliff, a conglomerate
of limestone and sandstone. It occurs, he says, in
blisters, which when punctured give off saltwater fol-
lowed by crude petroleum. To make sure of the facts,
a party of four persons went with Morrison and col-
lected more oil, and swore several strong affidavits
that they had done so. Dr. Basedow, the Adelaide
geologist, has supplied an encouraging report on the
co.’s oil area at Crinoline Point, near Lake Wangary,
and he appends an analysis of some oily substance he
obtained by shallow sinking. J. D. Iliffe, of Adelaide,
certified that the substance he tested was oil. Dr.
Basedow also reported that the rocks are correct geo-
logically for containing oil, and he advised systematic
boring. This is now in progress, and it will be
known shortly whether the tertiary rocks in the
locality are a mere veneer or whether they are thick
enough to hold petroleum.
* * * *
The Austral-Malay Co. (Sydney) hasn’t
had much luck in the pait six months. Of all the
properties over which options and other rights were
secured by H. E. Pratten, who went north on behalf
of the co., only the Kampong, Kampong Kamm t ; ng
and Larut seem to be worth while; and those three
have been already floated. The half-year has been
spent in inspecting the other properties andi in turn-
ing them down; and various blocks incidentally
picked up have been bored and dropped. Still, manag-
ing-director Freeman thinks other things will come
along, and he goes back next month to prospect
properties over which options are being acquired and
to pick up anything that offers. Horton, who has
done a lot of testing for the co., is now working on
his own account in the Malay Peninsula, but is likely
to give this co. the first refusal of anything he may
find. On May 1 the co., whose capital is only
£20,000, reckoned its net assets at £87,000, includ-
ing the share interests in the three subsidiary cos.,
whose outlook has, of course, been considerably
affected by the slump in the tin market.
The Kampong is an English co. and its dredge is
under construction. The first of the Kamunting
dredges will be shipped from Melbourne next month,
and the second should be ready by September. The
lately-floated Larut Co. has ordered a dredge, and the
Victorian contractors have undertaken to see it off
the premises by the end of February next.
“Pickhandle”: In B. 4/6/14 Exile has
hit the exact position of the Victorian Manganese and
Iron Co. It has been vainly asking the London
market for some time to put up a capital of £lOO,OOO
for this show. Recently an offer was made by an
English firm that if their expert’s report was favor-
able they would consider an option over the pro-
perty. The co., however, refused to allow the expeit
to inspect. To make matters look worse, this expert
is out in Australia at the present moment, for the
express purpose of obtaining options over manganese
shows. #
Clarence River: The security looks good
enough, the first pref. issue being very small, and
the interest offered is attractive.


Heeling's
Est. 1818.
Co
en
en
A
A
0 «' (:
heerimg
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
TEN YEARS OLD.
FARMER’S
Hairdressing' Rooms
for Ladies.
Following we quote our list of moderate
charges for expert workmanship in Hairdress-
ing and Massage:—
. HAIRDRESSING. £ s. d.
Plain 0 2 6
With Marcel Waving .. . . 0 4 6
Marcel Waving .. .. .. O 2 fi
Cutting 0 i O
Singeing O 1 O
Shampooing .. .. .. 0 2 6
With Plain Dressing .... 0 3 6
With Marcel Waving •. 0 4 6
Electric Hair Treatment—
One Treatment .. .. 0 5 O
Course of five .. .. 1 1 O
MASSAGE.
Face— One Treatment . . 0 2 6
Course of nine .. 1 1 0
Scalp— One Treatment .. 0 5 0
Course of five .. 1 1 O
Bust —• One Treatment .. 0 5 O
Course of five .. .. 1 1 O
CHIROPODY, each foot from.. 0 2 6
GIRLS’ HAIRCUTTING ..0 1 0
FARMER’S, SYDNEY,
Pitt, Market and George Streets.
BUCHANAN’S
Black O. White.
»
* a
m
A GRAND SPIRIT
“ Black & White ” is indeed a “ grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, June 15, 1914.
ATy Dead Artni, —
The youngsters’ fancy dress ball at Gov-
ernment House had a fine, frosty night for its
setting. The dance began at 6 p.m., being
timed thus early for the sake of toddlers who
were likely to fall asleep an hour or two later
in the arms of anything handy, from a Gentle-
man Help to a strong-limbed Abigail. By
seven o’clock the revel was in full career
round the ballroom, some of the revellers, as
tall as young gum trees, grasping infants of
half a dozen summers in a frantic waltz. The
and beauty of the youngsters, and the
general hilarity of the scene, were a wonderful
contrast to the affectations of an adult party
of the same size. Over 300 babes gripped
their partners, and set out in a reckless catch-
who-catch-can whirl, which they continued
till the music stopped.
The small girl, being the nearest approach
to primitive woman an effete civilisation per-
mits, pounced on the boy who came nearest
to her notion of manly beauty. Grasping
him firmly by any portion of his apparel she
could lay her hands on, she held her prize
against all comers till the madding dance
bevan. Governor Strickland lent his aid, in
red doublet and hose and ruffled to the ears,
as a- long-dead ancestor, Walter Strickland.
Lady Edeline sat down on the dais in the
raven garb and nlumed headgear of her Grace
of Dorset, a deceased ancestress.
Mrs. Joe Cook had powdered her locks for
the occasion, and camped on the sub-regal
platform to watch her youngster gambol
round with yards of red tape twined in her
white frock. The tall Trefle dame, majestic
in powder and patches and other warm cloth-
ing, and Mrs. David Hall, handsomely got up
as a white-locked lady of the same century
(I don’t know the name of the century, but
the mothers of the flock were all expected to
belong to it), gloated over their juvenile trea-
sures. Hall, junior, the most serious baby
of six years in the room, was a perfect fac-
simile of the Law when it gets into black
duds, buckle shoes and horse-hair, curls.
Alinister for Works Griffith’s only chick, a
pretty little boy in fancy trimmings, made a
bold attempt to steer a plump Red Indian
twice his size round the twirling crowd. The
Red Indian was auburn-haired Portia Hol-
man. The Eldest Daughter of the House, as
Catherine Parr, danced with all shapes and
sizes of fancy babes. The tall Alacarthur-
Onslow girl wore her own cream-and-roses
complexion under a Greek coiffure; a smaller
sister tossed a black coal-scuttle bonnet and
a crinoline as Miss Alattie, from Airs. Gas-
kell’s “Cranford.” Canada, a charming little
creature in red velvet and snowy fur, was
more serious than some of the frivolous babies
present. One of the best fancy dresses in
the room was from the Velasquez portrait
of a Spanish infanta. A little maiden
named Osborne capered round in the hoops
befitting this garb. The Patey youngsters,
chaperoned by mamma, were also in the
giddy throng, which had the unremitting
attendance of the Gentlemen Help Depart-
ment.
General Finn's two daughters pictured
the material side of War’s Alarms at this
fancy-dress spree. The eldest damsel had
buried her bright mop of hair under papa’s
Lancers’ helmet, and wore as much of the
rest of his uniform as she could conveni-
ently whisk round the room. The younger
maiden was a liighly-respectable Dervish,
clad in the garb of one of those coffee-col-
ored fanatics whom Soldier Finn met dur-
ing the row at Omdurman.
Alaoriland’s ex-Cabinet Alinister R.
AtcNab is over here on his favorite trail, the
moth-eaten pages of the past. He shoulders
an hon. degree as doctor for his pains, but
it doesn’t get in his way when he pores over
ancient tomes in the Alitchell Library. If
the AtcNab doesn’t change his mind, he will
stand for a Hawkes Bay constituency at the
next ALL. elections.
The Mawsons were welcomed by explorer
Shackleton and his wife when they reached
London a few weeks ago. Alawson is going
the way of all modern travellers, and is lec-
turing about blizzards and frost-bitten trage-
dies. He is booked to talk about his last
stay amongst the penguins when he gets back
to Australia.
For a eulogistic summary of a man’s life,
a speech made in Sydney the other evening
to celebrate Dr. Fiaschi’s 61st birthday
takes some beating: “Drink to this toast —a
long life to the noblest work of God, an
honest man; distinguished as a citizen, a
soldier and a surgeon, Colonel Thomas
Fiaschi, of the University of Pisa, D. 5.0.”
You could hardly pack the history of a well-
spent life into fewer words.
The Daily Alirror gives a full-page pic-
ture of the Most Noble Charles Richard John,
Duke of Marlborough, as an auctioneer.
The Most Noble, who looks as if he might
be happily placed selling tapes and hair-
pins, suddenly bloomed forth as a licensed
knight of the hammer at Oxford, and
knocked down some of his own property.
His methods combined that mixture of arro-
gance and affability which the Churchill
family have always handed out to the herd.
The appalling snobbery of the placard set-
ting forth that the “Most Noble Charles
Richard John,” etc., was an auctioneer, was
only equalled by the Most Noble’s condescen-
sion. “I have always understood,” said the
scion of the house founded by Sarah Jen-
nings, “that the laboring man was anxious to
acquire his cottage and garden, and I am
now going to give him an opportunity of
doing so.”
The Ladies’ Golf Union of N.S.W. is
vigorously smacking the little white ball at
Kensington as I gum up this letter. Last
year Miss Stephenson (Moss Vale) snatched
me Country Championship, with the brisk
|? r ’ ss Dnrdie, as runner-up.
—For those who consider boxing a
better game than goff, I may explain that
a runner-up” in this case means the ladv
who is beaten by an eyelash.) The Manly
player. Miss Duret, got away with the 1913
State Championship in the Petticoat division.
Resides the joy of getting in front of her
own sex in this tourney, the winner will
carry off a trophy presented by Miss Leo
u ray. This year’s goffers on the Kensing-
ton links are minus the manly stride and
fine play of Una Clift, who is in Europe;
and ex-champion Leo Wray is also on the
other side of the Line. On Saturday (June
battle of championship mixed doubles
wdl rage. The conquering Miss Duret and
U. n. U Brien were the victors in this argu-
ment in 1913. June 22 sees the close of the
scramble on the Kensington links. It will
then be transferred to the green hil-
locks of the Rose Bay course, where the
Radies Golf Union will struggle to win the
Coronation medal.
The Women’s Handicrafts Society, after
many perilous adventures, has reformed, and
is now a new edition of itself. It shows
its wares this week at 100 King-street,
where it hangs over the roar of city traffic
like a tremulous eyebrow. June 18 and 19
are the dates.
The superior beauty and intelligence of
Australian girls in the show business should
be proved to the satisfaction of local mana-
gers by the woes of their brethren in Lon-
don. During a recent trial for places in the
chorus of the Empire Theatre, the tally of
pietty girls was two in 100. Even this
con? 8 2 ? er , cent> was reduc<3d when about
800 damsels had shown their teeth and
hosmry to the judges—Alfred Butt and
Edward Temple. Only 12 young women
were passed, with a caution, as sufficiently
attractive to stay and have their voices
tested. Picture a Sydney manager inter-
viewing 800 of the local chorus lady before
he could get a dozen pairs of ankles worth
looking at!
The Leonard Borwick recital in the Con-
cordia Hall the other afternoon packed that
building to its final inch of space. The
only drawback to a one-man piano perform-
ance is not the fact that the audience gets
too much of the pianist, but the minor
tragedy of the pianist getting too much of
himself. The delicate framework that sup-
port 53 the academic perfection of Borwi.ik’s
methods (a trifle chilly sometimes, but very
line) droops after two hours’ hard labor at
concert pitch. With the encore fiend on
active service, the English pianist is giving
out more muscular exertion than he can con-
vemently spare. He holds his weary hands
together as if he’d like to hang them in a
sling after each big event. After the thun-
der ot the huge Beethoven Sonata in C
minor he glided like a wraith into the den
beyond the public gaze. This fine musician’s
soulful style might suffer from a generous
diet of beefsteak and beer, but his body
which is rather stouter than a clothes-prop,
would be more up to the fighting weight of
Bach.
When mother is doing chores, the Wool-
loomooloo Day Nursery minds the baby. The
committee is composed of desperate women
who mean to have your money or your
scalp, or at the least your switch, so you’d
better save trouble and part with a shilling
at_ their Musical Matinee on June 24. The
King’s Hall, Phillip-street, is the appointed
place.. Mrs. 11. B. Robb and the aforesaid
, committee are the chief conspirators.
After many preliminary puffs the very rich
Eadith Walker has returned to these shores
in the colossal Niagara. The usual mendi-
cants and society parasites fell on the lady’s
massive neck when she arrived. The Yara’lla
heiress is protected by an ironclad manner,
but there’s a stern pursuit of Duty—with a
large D —underneath a granite exterior. Woe
betide the professional cadger, however, who
tries the “funeral in me family” dodge twice
in one week !
In the Chamber of Commerce the other
evening Prof. Watt, who is in charge of the
Hayseed department at the Uni., addressed
a meeting which was not large enough to
stop the draughts on a chilly night. The
subject was the prospect of forming Boys
and Girls’ Agricultural Clubs in N.S.W., on
rather similar lines to the American notion
of putting the Young Idea on a corn patch
near his home or school. The boys’ demon-
stration plot,” says one authority, “should
become not only the demonstration plot for
himself but for the parents also.” Thus,
the potato farmer aged 10j who cultivates
a quarter of an acre near his country resi-
dence, will expect his mother to peel his crop
and mash them hot with butter for home
consumption. As all the regulations seemed
to hinge on the boy, the horticultural Miss
Brace (who was forthwith popped on the
committee) rose up and inquired what the
organisers intended to do with the Girl. So
the meeting, which was writhing with its
initial efforts to form a constitution, sat up
and took notice of the feminine desire to dig
up something, if it were only an old bone
or two in the backyard.
The fourth warble of the Dolores season,
with a No. 5 extra at the Hospital concert,
will have melted into thin air before this
reaches you. At Saturday’s song-burst the
plump little lady trotted her vocal art up
and down the famous aria in “Traviata”
with considerable brilliance. Pianist Boyd
Wells tackles his business with a far more
robust physique than the shadowy Borwick.
The American man is climbing up to a
secure perch amongst the players who can
give Beethoven a hearty thump in the right
place when required.
The frenzy of tulle is climbing high up above
the female head in perky bows that look as
if they were wired. Some of the heads that
swirled round at the Salon de Luxe the
other evening were like inverted pie dishes,
with large, fluffy tulle frills pleated above
the sleek locks that were patted down to the
scalp. Feet that attack the tango in Louis
XVI. heels have a forcible way of butting
into meek adjacent couples who are indus-
triously ploughing through a two-step. But
the determination of every aee and weight to
shake up its liver in the mazy
dance is unabated. Mrs. George Lane Mul-
lins looked on at the capers of the tango
tangle on the polished Salon boards the other
evening; Mrs. Richard Sly had a party in the
same flower-trimmed hall; barrister Norris
circled round in the waltz; and stout elderly
gentlemen, apparently fired with a resolve to
reduce their waist-line, frisked about with the
agility of young lambs at play.
Sydney’s clever Dorothea Mackellar has
been writing for the stately and now rather
dull Corn hill Magazine on the other side.
The Emily Baxter cot at the Alexandra
Hospital for Children is now endowed in
perpetuity. An “old girl” of the Argyle
School, of which Miss Baxter was for so
many years school marm, has handed over
the final £lOO required to make up the
£lOOO. The Old Girl refuses to be thanked
in her own name, and sick babes in Per-
petuity will have to bless her in general
terms.
Graham Moffat and his attractive wife
are the most agreeable samples of the Scot-
tish accent we have had in this town for a
while. Mr. Moffat, who is the writer of
“Bunty Pulls the Strings,” is a rather
small, benign Scot who grew up amongst
the chimney-pots of Glasgow, without losing
his belief that this is the best of all possible
worlds. His father taught elocution in that
congested city of smuts and factories. Young
gentlemen who once threw out their chests
and patted the air under the tuition of
Moffat pdre are, in their serious middle-
age, confronting “Bunty’s” author in all
manner of unexpected places.
“My mother,” says Mr. Bunty, “is 79
and looks a well-preserved 60 —bless her!
Possibly I’d been gradually assimilating
quaint traits in Scottish character all my life
before I thought of ‘Bunty.’ Australia, what
little we’ve seen of it, is a wonderful country
when you «hink that not much more than
a hundred years ago the very place where
we are sitting was possibly a blacks’ camp.”
“Did you ring?” interrupts a haughty waiter.
“Tea, please,” says Mrs. Bunty, who has blue
eyes, a Madonna smile, and a militant back-
answer in defence of the astounding suf-
fragettes. “Perhaps,” says she, “if you
realised the sufferings of the women and
little half-starved children in the Old Coun-
try, and the slow progress of any legislation
to give them relief, you might understand
that the' so-called yelling females are actu-
ally fighting—l don’t approve of all their
methods, mind—for a class that is too weak
and crushed to help itself.” Mr. Bunty
drops in his little pellet. “Hood’s ‘Song of
the Shirt’ is as true to-day in Britain as it
was 60 years ago. Women can earn Is.
a day by working from dawn till nearly mid-
night at shirt-making. We want better laws
to protect the British toilers from
the cheap labor of Polish Jews and other
aliens who invade the country in hordes
every year. Perhaps the feminine shriek
which is making such a stir just now in
England may ultimately rouse the public
conscience with regard to starvation wages
and so on.”
Pianist Ed. Sykes, who has fallen on the
rocky points of Continued 111 Health, is to
benefit by a concert later on. Dolores has
offered to fling this financial bouquet at the
noted accompanist, who introduced her to the
Australian public in IS9o. At that time
Sykes did a bit of managerial business, and
the sweet-voiced Dolores came here under
his direction.
Mrs. Francis Anderson, who is ahead of
the ancient superstition that Good Works and
cleaning saucepans constitute the whole Duty
of Woman when she isn’t mending little
Tommy’s pants, is agitating for a more prom-
inent place for Us in municipal matters. At
the back of this notion is the firm belief
that it is time the feminine brain concerned
itself with town cleaning. A suggestion that
a few strong-minded women should form
themselves into anti-dust, anti-dirt commit-
tees in various localities where the city
housemaids are very lax is worth considera-
tion. While the local alderman is throwing
inkpots at his brothers in council, or seeking
what green thing he can slay with an axe
lest its grateful shade fall on man or beast,
we have Our chance to rush in with a mop
and bucket.
Marjorie Henderson, of Edgecliff, will say
“I will” to electrical engineer Gibbes one
day this week —so far as anyone knows
aught to the contrary. It is to be a quiet
wedding, so the usual placards inviting a
hundred or two guests (incidentally) to
send their contributions to the bride’s new
home have not been sent round our best
suburbs. The. fair-haired Marjorie has a
trousseau that includes everything any reason-
able girl would like to appropriate for her
own honeymoon. There’s an evening wrap
of gold and black that glistens like hoar
frost under a new moon, evening frocks of
the latest cut (a black one with a huge
white waterlily at the waist is worth fram-
ing), and piles of hand-made lingerie like
white cobwebs sewn into gossamer lace. The
moon is to be spent at Kosciusko, and the
bridal outfit for the winter freeze includes
a woolly purple cap, tunic and etceteras.
Mrs. Eames, wife of the Newcastle doc-
tor, was to have tossed three ostrich plumes
in the presence of George Rex and Mary
on June 5.
Mrs. (Essie Jenyns) Wood is going to
spend part of July in Sydney.
The David Fells were in London when
the last mail-boat sidled off the English
coast. David was then busy trying to pull
the big Commonwealth Oil Corporation off
the rocks of Improvident Finance.
Marshall Hall, mostly of Melbourne,
though his “Brava !” stunned Sydney during
an opera season, has been storming in the
pages of the British-Australasian. The
subjects of his staccato remarks are the “good
middle-class bourgeois” (poor, tax-paying
bourgeois!) who think in negatives, and the
critics of this and that. Incidentally, Marshall
Hall gives Mark Hambourg (then playing in
London) a hearty encore for being everything
the white-waistcoated British critic most ob-
jects to. Hambourg, by the way, ought to
be adored by the niano-tuner. He used to
treat the ivory keys like an anvil, and ham-
mer them black and blue.
Kretschmann’s former pupil, the youthful
violinist, Rebe Kussmann, is keeping up to
her record in the Thames village. About
12. or 18 months ago the girl won a scholar-
ship at the Guildhall School of Music. This
gives her two years’ tuition. Lately Rebe
has been fiddling at small affairs in London
by way of gathering in some extra shekels.
The Crown-street Women’s Hospital was
dragged out of the financial soup last year
by the theatrical, matinees that raged in its
behalf. Now it is on the war-trail again in
search of more cash—a hungry, Oliver Twist
attitude common to mendicant charities
which depend largely on public sympathy.
Mayoress . Richards presided at a re-
cent meeting to round up workers for the
forthcoming dance, in aid of the Cause. The
Salon de Luxe is to house the hop on
July 15.
One of. the vagaries of fashion this year
is.the satin slipper for day wear. On a raw
winter’s afternoon the smart dame will be
coated to her ears, while on her frequently-
large feet she wears (over transparent
hose) satin shoes, low cut and obviously
built for ballrooms.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.
“Kai Kai’s” disquietude :
The accident on June 9 in Sydney Harbor when
the steamer Coombar cut down a naval pinnace con-
taining three men, off Circular Quay, drowning one
of the crew and nearly drowning the others, upsets
one comforting theory as to the result of the long-
threatened big harbor collision. The common argu-
ment is that should a big smash occur to any of the
north-of-the-harbor ferries, the crowded state of the
traffic would mean that eager assistance would be so
close at hand that the passengers flung into the water
would be picked up before they realised what had
happened to them. The accident on the 9th occurred
at 2.30 on a fine afternoon, in the centre of the fair-
way and in the very middle of all the traffic routes.
Yet when the crew of the pinnace floated to the top,
it was a quarter of an hour before the promised help
was available. By that time one man had succumbed and
the two survivors were picked up half frozen. Had
there been dozens of men, women and children to
rescue, five to ten minutes’ delay in the work would
have meant death to most of them. I don’t know who
is guaranteeing all these reassuring statements as to
what is going to happen when the big smash comes.
The only reasurrance that will impress me will arrive
when I wake up in bed next morning and find that
my name is not in the list of the drowned.


HARDY BROTHERS
LIMITED.
VICE-REGAL
fghfgh
JEWELLERS
BV APPOINTMENT.
Quality in Table Plate
Hardy Bros.’ Spoons and Forks are the highest grade of
English Silver Plate manufactured. These are triple-
plated with Pure Silver on the finest hard White Metal,
and are the same quality as supplied for over 60 years.
Only the best quality kept.
Inspection invited.
Fully Illustrated Catalogue sent post free, on request.
11l
CONTENTS:
12 Table Forks
12 Dessert Forks
0 Table Spoons
S Soup Spoons
12 Dessert
Spoons
12 Tea Spoons
1 Gx-avy Spoon
1 Soup Ladle
1 Sugar Spoon
1 Sugar Tongs
2 Sauce Ladles
Complete,
68 Pieces,
Old English
Pattern,
fgh
Small Size, £l3/10/-
13 Hunter St., Sydney; 118 Queen St., Brisbane.
32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET, LONDON, W.
BEST NOVELS
are not necessarily the most expensive. The science of good management
in the publishing trade has made it nossible to publish good fiction at a
shilling a volume. The most entertaining reading is to be obtained from
THE BOOKSTALL SHILLING NOVELS
Is.
each.
The Best Sellers in Australia
(Sales total 1,500,000 Copies).
Is. Id.
posted.
A FEW NOVELS FROM THE “BOOKSTALL” SERIES
WOLAROI’S CUP,
By AMBROSE PRATT
THE LUCK OF THE NATIVE BORN,
By A. J. BARRY
THE TRADER,
By C. ROSS-JOHNSON
TOOLS OF SATAN,
By LANCELOT BOOTH
BILL’S IDEES,
By A. G. STEPHENS
THE SIGN OF THE SERPENT,
By J. H. M. ABBOTT
BASE BRANDS,
By H. M. SOMER
ON HIS MAJESTY’S SERVICE,
By ROY BRIDGES
IN THE LAST STRIDE,
By ARTHUR WRIGHT
A REBEL OF THE BUSH,
By DON DELANEY
as
“AUSTRALIAN BARKERS AND BITERS,”
By ROBERT KALESKI.
One of the best dog books ever published. It is a book by an authority,
containing invaluable hints, and the origins of all our Avell-known breeds
are explained in a most entertaining way.
ALL BOOKSELLERS AND BOOKSTALLS.
WRITE FOR A COMPLETE CATALOGUE.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
470 George Street, Sydney.
THIS
£
i
il
V-
•tr
/
W
\
L
THE PIANOLA PIANO not only enables
you to play any composition, but also shows
you how to give a correct interpretation*
The line on the music-roll you see in the illus-
tration is the Metrostyle line, which is found
only on Pianola music-rolls used in conjunction
with the Pianola and Pianola Piano. It furnishes
A TRUE AND AUTHORITATIVE GUIDE
TO THE PROPER INTERPRETATION
OF A COMPOSITION.
The Pianola Piano
(STECK, STEINWAY, WEBER or STROUD
PIANO) is the only piano which CAN and
DOES teach you the music whilst you play it.
Why don't you become a skilled musician? Why
don't you call at Pianola Hall and prove for your-
self that you can become one immediately ? A
practical demonstration is far better than a
Catalogue. But if inconvenient for you to call,
write for Catalogue “ T.''
The genuine Pianola Piano can be purchased
ONLY AT PIANOLA HALL from 120 Guineas. We
allow full value for your Piano, and extend the
Payments from One to Three Years if desired.
“I consider the Metrostyle indispensable to the Pianola,
and I have indicated my interpretation of several compositions
with great interest.” L j PADEREWSKI.
“The Metrostyle is of extraordinary interest. I have
Metrostyled some of my own compositions, and owners of the
Pianola can now play them according to the interpretations I
have indicated.” gIR EDWARD ELGAR.
RECITALS DAILY; also FRIDAY EVENINGS
fgh
ANVdIAIOO VIONVId 3HI
Pty.
Ltd.
Z 52 Col/ins Street, MELBOURNE ;
88 Rundle Street , ADELAIDE;
357 George Street (next David Jones Ltd.), Sydney.
436-438 Queen Street, BRISBANE; London, Berlin, New York, etc.
W rm CC*MA* IMMMt


SPLENDID VALUE
The boot illustrated is one of Farmer's
most popular models for business wear,
and one of our best values. It is soundly
constructed from dependable leathers on
a smart, comfortable last, and never fails
to give satisfaction.
Description: Whole goloshed Lace
Boots in firm grain Box Calf, stout
Welted Soles; in two styles, with easy
joint fittings; or, if desired, may be had
in Glace Kid.
Price, 16|6 pair.
FARMER’S PAY CARRIAGE.
fgh
ss*
FARMER’S,
PITT, MARKET &
GEORGE STREETS,
SYDNEY.
THE FASHION PERFUME
OF TO-DAY.
fhg
ParfOn)
LilaS
Manufactured by
GUSTAV
LOHSE,
BERLIN.
Imitated but not
equalled.
Sole
Agent:
A*o* SCHMIDT, William Street
MELBOURNE.
THe
Oriental
Hotel,
MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA’S MODERN HOTEL.
Now open for the reception of Guests.
The most Hygienic Conditions and Refined
Elegance are distinctive features.
Any size suite of compartments.
Tariff from 15/- per day.
ERNEST McINTOSH, General Manager.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, June 15. 1914.
My Dear Yarrie. —
The Austral Salonettes received their new
patron, the Munro-Ferguson dame, with a
parrot chorus of loyal compliments. I’resi-
dent Mrs. Madden is away at present, sc
the honors were done by the Staughton
widow, supported by Mrs. Baker, Mrs.
Quinnell and Mrs. Horatio Webb. The
distinguished guest, by either accident or
design, arrived at the war-dance clad splen-
didly in red velvet and crowned with red
feathers, thereby chiming in with the deco-
rations. Dark furs went with the rest of
her trappings. Pretty little Doris Black-
wood was all fawn, with a wreath of pink
roses in her hat. Music w r as laid on as
usual, and her Ex. expressed her surprise
and delight. It appears that she had braced
herself for a heavily intellectual paper—
expected a salon, in short, and found a
saloon.
Mischa Elman gave his last Melbourne
concert on Saturday night. On towards eight,
o’clock the guinea seats that were still un-
sold were almost fought for by eager late-
comers. Little Mischa almost dances on
the platform as he pulls the wonderful
music from the strings. Sometimes he uses
his Amati and sometimes the Strad. One
is easy to key-up and the other isn’t. The
other night he forgot he was using the stiff
fiddle, and. in the middle of a movement,
calmly stopped the orchestra and got the
conductor to hold a few accessories while
he adjusted the keys and made a few ex-
periments. Both audience and orchestra
sat amazed, but the little violinist wasn’t
the least bit disconcerted. He is a neat
little wisp of a youth with the superfluous
back neck-roll that prophesies a stout middle-
age. His little pip-point eyes glow and
twinkle with intelligence, and his devoted
father, whose figure he will have later on,
follows in his steps and worships all the
way.
For the last Elman concert, vocalist Eva
Gauthier wore white brocade and sang some
sweet French-Canadian songs charmingly.
81ie changes her singing style almost as
frequently as she changes her dresses, and
is an interesting artist in both departments.
Pianist Harold Bauer grows a thick
fringe of hair round the edge of his head to
hide the bald clearing in the centre; also,
he plays in front of a curtain smothered
with roses. But, after all, neither of these
things matter; he would probably play just
as well if he had no hair at all and nothing
behind him but an old bag. As regards his*
playing, one paper says: “It was claimed
after the first recital that Mr. Bauer was
one of the greatest pianists who have visited
Australia. After last night we are tempted
to say even more than that.” AVell, why
not say it? Your fearless Johanna says at
jnce that he plays Chopin like an angel—
or even better. What are angels, anyhow!
A large proportion of Bauer’s audiences
clasp their foreheads and moan to one
another that it is too —too beautiful.
Miss Gauthier, the singer with the Mischa
Elman co., has been brightening the concert
platform here with her frocks and brilliantly
dyed coiffures. Green hair and flame-col-
ored hair so startled her unsophisticated
audiences that her singing was almost over-
looked ; so the little singer reverted to her
own black locks for the last concerts. On
the first night artist Hans Heysen, who
was in the front seats comfortably clad
in a brown sweater and other garments to
match, enthused loudly over the Gauthier
color schemes. On Monday her red wig
eclipsed everything else she had on, and on
Wednesday the female section of the house
was spellbound by gold shadow lace on crim-
son brocade. A bit of white tulle clamped
with a gold breastplate served as a bodice,
and the hair was built up into an Eiffel
Tower.
Fashionable first-nighters in first-grade
■clothes rushed the King’s Theatre on Satur-
day night to see Maud Allan dance. The
seraphs of Russell-street stood back as the
■ospreys swept past and the gilded heels
scuttled before them. Maud proved to be a
lady with very large bare feet and a bright
face. Her countenance has the goody-goody
brightness of the heroine in a Sunday-school
story. She has round eyes, and her child-
like expression suits best the Spring Song-
andance and other capers of the Arcadian
variety. The necessary atmosphere of weird-
ness for a Peer Gynt frolic was got by splash-
ing red limelight and thereby obscuring the
round eyes and their natural expression of
innocence. The Salome dance is promised—
it was not on the first-night programme. The
weather was snappy and possibly Maud
feared a chill. For the other dances she
wears too many clothes, or so it appears to
me. Her arms are bare to the shoulders,
and you can see her legs from the knees
downward; but the rest of her is clad
bunchily—so much so that she looks like a
careful woman who believes in plenty of good
flannel petticoats. Her entrances and exits
are well contrived. The stage is circled
with moss-brown and moss-green plush cur-
tains of generous length, and Maud appears
suddenly in a surprised and surprising way
at any point. Her first “entry” was as a
heap of mauve and flesh-color on the floor,
with dim lights playing. The heap gradu-
ally beame a writhing mass of white arms
and legs moving stealthily without howls,
shrieks or groans. It gave one a creepy
feeling. It is all very well, but —she should
have come before Genee.
Dick Nevill will probably have his cham-
berlain’s pole of office mounted in a frame
when he gets to England. 1 hear rumors
that the quaint job is to be abolished ; but
even if it is retained I can’t see why there
should be a divining rod attached to it. It
isn’t part of the Chamberlain’s job to light
street lamps or punt people across shallow
rivers.
President Davies, of the Legislative
Council, and his wife will pour tea at State
Parliament House on June 24, when the
local wranglers will begin all over again.
Gentleman Help Pollok of the Denman
staff, who was booked for England, is stay-
ing on here, and has a local soldiering job
in view'. Meantime he dances nearly every
night at the Plaza with a select company,
which generally includes Edna Armytage
and a chaperone.
Mrs. Davey, wife of the ex-Gaud Mayor,
has lately been about Melbourne looking the
shadow of her former plump self. The poor
lady had to undergo several operations in
England, and is shortly departing again in
search of the health she hasn’t yet found.
IJagelthorn, who has charge of immigra-
tion matters here, has been solemnly warned
that delegates from the National Society for
Public Morals left London for Australia on
May 9. London is supposed to have risen
about 2ft. the instant they stepped off it.
Hagelthorn and the Gaud Mayor are hur-
riedly calling a Town Hall meeting to find
out what they can do with the visitors, and
how they can be thrown off the scent, and
baffled, and sent away strong in the belief
that All is Well. How are your morals, my
dear?
The G.-G. couple are proudly exhibiting
their Raeburn family portraits. Mrs.
Sheridan (who got into the Blackwood-
Dufferin family by marriage) is pictured as
St. Cecilia, with her lovely Grecian profile
in relief against leafy shadows, and two
cherubs nestling at hand. There are
several portraits of the G.-G. himself (need
I mention that these are not Raeburns?), but
all the painters failed to picture him in ad-
vance as Samson 11. bringing down the
Houses.
Squatter Oswald Watt, who has been
looping the loop over Europe, is booked for
Australia. I understand he will bring his
angel-chasing machine with him.
Lieutenant Harrison, one of our military
aeroplanists, is going to fly for life with Miss
Prendergast, daughter of the politician.
Henry Stead and his wife are making
themselves responsible by invitation card
for three successive parties at the Reper-
tory Theatre Club. The dates are June 17,
July 15 and August 12, and the hours are
8 to 10.30.
A son of the Charles Griffiths has pre-
sented a glittering ring to pretty “Liney”
McLeod, who is a Western District heiress
in a big wav. Her late father owned Talis-
ker sheep studio, where his daughters now
dwell with their mother, who is of the Henty
elan.
Ralph Falkiner, who parted company
with the first Mrs. Falkiner in Society’s
best manner, was married to Doris Frazer
last week.
The Phyllis Reggie Poivers have left
their woolly acres and come down to a
South Yarra flat for the fox-chasing season.
Mrs. Tom Smith is still in possession of
their town abode, and they can’t chase her
out of that house or this paragraph.
Richard Goldsbrough Row—affectionately
known everywhere as “Dick” —had a fright-
fully sudden end. He suffered much from
gout, and was in the habit of taking strong
remedies that were no good for the heart.
He was somewhere in comfortable middle-
age and had no real passport for the other
world ; but he got there in his sleep, and- his
wife, who occupied another room with their
baby girl, was awakened to be told the grim
news. She is left with two young sons and
the little daughter. Before her marriage
she was a Miss IJeggarty, of Melbourne.
Shoals of welcome-home messages have
poured in on Mrs. J. C. Williamson. She
was a Melbourne girl, and will return here
after putting Sydney affairs in order: the
home there has been sold, and all sorts of
household gods have to be stored away or
disposed of. Both the daughters are accom-
plished young persons, wrapped in modest
ways. The young lady who still suffers
from the early pet-name of “Tootles” has
a talent for black-and-white and water-color,
and spoils a lot of paper when she isn’t ice-
skating with big sister Marjorie.
Marjorie Williamson, daughter of the late
J.C.W., is to hostess a young people’s dance
on June 23. The Higgins girls, of Toorak,
are bracketed with her on the cards of in-
vitation. Mrs. Roystone Davey is lending
her ballroom to the trio for the joyful occa-
sion. Marjorie has been away at school for
five years, and this function is her pleasant
way of saying “How do you do?”
A drove of the Best - People interested
themselves in the Pierrot Ball, at the
Plaza, in aid of the Bendigo Miners’ Relief
Fund; but they very wisely left it to the
young and agile to wear the frivolous cos-
tume. Most of the girls, mistrustful of their
leg effects, insisted on going as pierrot—
scarcely a flapper amongst them chose the
brief, calf-revealing skirt of pierrette.
Louise Pinschof, who worked hard as sec-
retary, took a well-deserved dance in blue
bloomers and pom-poms. Mrs. Guy Sher-
wood was a powdered pierrette with very
neat limbs and a suitably short skirt under
a long, pointed ballet-waist. Her husband,
bravely doing escort duty, looked sufficiently
self-conscious for two. Doris Fullerton
shrieked for attention in vivid pink and got
it. Mrs. Pohlman, wife of a bank manager,
made a solid and very imposing Lady Teazle.
The Willis mayoral party from Prahran
looked on and joined in the big midnight
supper party in the adjacent rink. Gretchen
Innes-Noad showed a smart frill or two,
and Mrs. J. C. Williamson had her two
girls with her. Mrs. Tallis, gowned to per-
fection in black, gazed at the dazzling re-
sult of her labors, she having helped to
shepherd the show. Bonnie Watt had
Mavis Theil and Dorothy Sternberg as show
girls in her Futurist set. The girls thereof
wore mostly white tulle frills and satin
pantaloons, while their unfortunate men-
partners were persuaded or bullied into put-
ting frills round their ordinary dress clothes
and hanging powder puffs on their trousers.
Fred Niblo and his wife came after theatre-
time in smart black-satin costumes and
white faces.
A Repertory Theatre matinee performance
of “Fanny’s First Play” will occupy this
coming Saturday at the Royal. A week
later (to be exact, Saturday, June 27), Ib-
sen’s “An Enemy of the People” will be
staged. The next Australian play to be handled
is “Whither?” (the query is to be addressed
to Woman), by Miss M. E. Wilkinson.
McMahon considers it one of the most
striking things the Repertory has had to do
with—which is encouraging. It is to be
given its chance some time in wild July.
We are threatened with the annual out-
burst of masculine complaint re the invasion
of suburban smoking carriages by females
of one sort and another. I was in one my-
self the other day', and am glad of it, be-
cause of this. What she was doing in a
smoker I can’t guess, she being the grim
type, with a drop-cornered mouth and a cold
grey eye that positively abominates smoke
in the home. It was a cold Melbourne day.
A man leaned forward and closed the door.
She was indignant. “Impudence!” she
ejaculated. He opened it again. “Forgive
me,” he said, oh so sweetly, “I thought per-
haps you would like to have it closed. It is
making your nose -so red.”
A few lines from “Rosna,” in London :
Arrangements have been completed for an informal
Australian luncheon at the .Cecil every week, chiefly
for the benefit of wandering Australians stricken by
the loneliness of London and thirsting for a little
less frigid society than the island generally affords.
The thing is to be inexpensive and guiltless of
speeches—in fact, it is to be sensible in every way
except that it is to be a purely masculine function.
The T. J. Saliers’ daughter, Harriet' Mary, of the
Apple Island, has arrived and been married to her
Navy doctor, Surgeon Charles Aveling. The proceed-
ing occurred at the Hampstead Parish Church on
May 12. Medico Isabel Ormiston, who had also
hurried breathlessly from the Speck, assisted the bride
through.
The giraffe’s husband has just died at the
Zoo, and the bereaved, who is the only one
of the species hereabout, looks as lonely as
any widowed lady of society immured
amongst “impossible” people. When the
keeper tries to address words of cheer to
her from ground level the tears falling from-
such a great height partly blind him, and he
has to retire and shout condolences from a
distance. Somebody suggests that the Zoo
people should get a phonograph record of
“You can get a sweetheart any day, but not
ano-ther Mobh-er.” Yet that doesn’t exactly
fit the case.
* The black velvet and satin head-bags that
"‘have disguised friend and foe for many
months are now definitely “out,” so it will
be necessary for us in future to dress our
hair when venturing out. The latest hat is
of the ancient “Dolly Varden” variety, and
is raised off the head with a grandstand of
roses or ribbon. Long streamers of black
velvet ribbon float over the shoulders of the
flat hatters, and our mothers (girls of a
past generation) recall with ladylike
giggles that in their day they were called
“Follow-me-lads!” With the old bustle
coming stealthily back and the crinoline
arriving again with wired flounces, what’s
the matter with purple elastic-sided boots
like the ones mother wore to school, and the
hair-bag she carried when she played croquet
in the dusty Long Ago? How poor old
Fashion does repeat herself!
The City Newsboys’ Ball will occur
splendidly on July 8. The poor, dear News-
boys ft re used to being fashionably patron-
ised one niglit per year, and it is edifying
tc see the little band of scrubbed and oiled
street toilers slither in on stockinged feet
to present the usual complimentary bouquet
to the dear, kind lady who is enjoying her-
self so nicely on their behalf. The pity of
it is that these lads must grow up and join
the hotrrid Labor party.
“Mogaddr,” a waltz with a fine swing
about it and the melodious crashes in the
right places, has been composed and pub-
lished locally'. It is holding its own amongst
the multitude of imported melodies, and B.
M Afrait, the young man responsible, is
feeling like Franz Lehar or worse.
A young Melbourne matron is now holding
a candle and burning joss sticks before the
shrine at the old-fashioned ' Mrs. Bloomer,
whose ancient battle-cry was: “Trousers for
Women !” She had been ill and her doctor
was disinclined to allow her to attend the
Repertory Ball, until he was made aware
that his patient’s Kismet fancy dress com-
prised soft, thick trousers of silk gathered
in at the ankles. Then he gave his profes-
sional blessing and she duly motored along
and revelled in comfort without corsets and
her hair in two braids hanging down her
back. (Oh! I forgot! I should have men-
tioned it before I started. Male readers will
please skip this paragraph.)
A recent bride is now bewailing the loss
of most of her wedding loot. One afternoon
in town she was hailed by a woman friend,
who straightway started to compliment her
on the smartness of her new gardener. “Gar-
dener !” moaned the bride, “why we haven’t
got a gardener!” “Well, who was it I saw
on the verandah as I passed? He knew quite
a lot about flowers, and he said” But the
lady with the unguarded suburban home
didn’t wait to hear what lie had said. She
jumped aboard a painfully-slow tram and
arrived home only to find that the place had
been cleaned out. A sarcastic note on the
table informed-her that the writer had taken
her furs as an afterthought, as he felt sure
she would not grudge them to his wife!
From my Adelaide correspondent: —
The. Galways, faithful as always to their appointed
task of binding the Empire together, turned up at
both days of the A.R.O.’s Birthday meeting. He
•wore trousers and a hat of some dark hue or other,
she a dress of black and white striped taffeta, wit(i
a long coat of coney seal. This was on the Satur-
day, which was as dull as a Lenten sermon preached
by a cleric with a cleft palate. On Monday the.sup
came out, with the result that Miss D’Erlanger wore
a ; becoming and smartly-cut coat and skirt of Wedg-
wood blue. Mrs. Roy Burston also wore blue, and
looked very nice in it, too. Nor were they the only
festive dressers. Mrs. Dudley Hayward, Mrs. John
Corbin, Miss Monica Murray (who is one of the new-
est debutantes), Mrs. Wilkie, Mrs. Kyffin Thomas and
Mrs. A. E. O’Leary all caused the onlooker to halt and
murmur, “How sweet!” or “Well, I’m blessed!”—
than which no woman of fashion can do more. In
the Gang, Forward Stakes Perfect Friar gave his
backers a £lB7 dividend. The 'owners hadn’t a
penny on him. Also, it is alleged, most of his
backers supported him under the delusion that he was
Friar Perfect. So, you see, my dear, how out of
idiocy good oftentimes comes.
The Tom Popes, who leave for England in October,
have sold Sunnyside, and will be at the Grand Cen-
tral from July 1. All would-be donors of flowers,
cabin trunks, seasickness cures, etc., please note.
On Tuesday evening they were given a farewell social
by the Glen Osmond Church (it doesn’t sound hilari-
ous, but you never can tell), and they are giving
their friends a farewell garden party shortly.
Dr. Glynn, who died at the residence of his bro-
ther, Dr. Robert Glynn, at Riverton, on Tuesday, was a
brother of Paddy Glynn, the Minister. He had prac-
tised at Kapunda for nearly quarter of a century.
Mr. and Mrs. Mac Diarmid left by Thursday’s ex-
press for Melbourne. They are off on a three months’
trip to Java.
Mr. R. L. Jack, the Assistant-Government Geolo-
gist, and Capt. A. S. White, who leave next week
with the Government expedition to the Musgrave and
Everard Ranges, were farewelled by the Royal Soci-
ety on Thursday evening. Mr. Jack is to lead the
expedition, and Capt. White will be the representa-
tive of the Royal Society, and will make biology and
botany his special responsibilities. It is not” long
since he returned from an expedition to the Far
North and Central Australia, which he organised
and led himself.
The ball in aid of St. Joseph’s Orphanage in the
Exhibition Building on Wednesday evening supplied
the multitude with several crowded hours of rotatory
life. Government House, the two-step, one-step and
“rag” were all there, so you can gather that it was
a success. The Orphanage fears that it will be unable
to carry away the resulting swag. Still, it proposes
to make a dogged effort.
The Cecil Corbins left last year for England. They
will be away for two years.
Invitations are out for the Adelaide Rowing Club
ball, on July 3, in the North Adelaide Institute.
Blithe news of Daisy Kennedy, from Europe. She
hits been plaj'ing the violin at a big concert in
Vienna, and no one threw missiles at her. In fact,
the papers praised her warmly.
On Thursday evening the annual University ball
was held in the Elder Hall, with A. W. Morey and
C. E. Pellew as joint secretaries. Red was the ‘key-
note of the decorations, and there was an alarming—
I mean, charming—muster of debutantes.- Vice-
royalty arrived at 9 o’clock, and immediately pro-
vided the light comedy of the evening, in the shape
of the Lancers, executed with bitter resolution by the
John Downers, the Girdlestones, the Mayor and
Mayoress, the Goodmans, Professors Kerr-Grant and
Brown, Mrs. Poulton and Mrs. Arthur Rymill.
Thea Proctor, whose shows have succeeded in Sidney
and Melbourne, intends to exhibit here towards the
end of the month. She is regarded, in the cultivated
atmosphere of Chelsea, as one of the most wonderful
and valuable things that ever came out of the Com-
monwealth. By the way, she is proceeding to Europe,
on another trip, in August.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


m
m
■
in
,*-& v
-
J** 4.
V-'-t
1
: ,
■■< -
w
1
• ....
:
m
s
'im
<>
¥ E
MBS
pjfWjKy^
sntss
y^.-Vjty
fghfgh
Joseph Simpson, R.B.A,
Copyright. John Dewar & Sons , Ltd.
JAMES WATT
JOHN
is Picture is the Tenth of a Series of colored Portraits of Famous Scots published by
DEWAR & SONS. L T ° Scotch Whisky Distillers, Perth ck? LondQH


•o
b 3
\
Mirrors
and
Glass
Ware
Always
brigh;
and clearT)
after
Bon Ami.)
Bon Ami
ĥfg
The operation takes just one work-,
ing minute and leaves the mirror
brilliant.
w
For
Kitchen
Ware
The
Bon Ami
way is
the
easiest
v/ay.
Bon Ami
&
Brilliantly polish up your pots ket-
tles and pans with Bon Ami —it's
perfect. ’ T
[2
The World’s Best.
DAIMLER
Motor Lorry.
■Silent Knight Engine,
■Shaft
Drive No Chains.
/a
SUNSHINE
Motor Cars P’t’y
Melbourne.
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney &, Adelaide,
Sole
Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Henare” finances a holiday jaunt:—
Py gorry, you know I te very hard up that time
te sports he’s on at Torago Pay. Py gorry, Ite veiy
sorry I can’t go. I got te horse, you know, so if I
rike I can go, but he’s no good to go without te cash.
I tink an’ I tink, an’ te more I tink te more I te
sorry. Prenty te fun at Torago Pay, prenty waipiro,
plenty te hun’red up, prenty' wahine, prenty te dance.
Te puck-jumpers, too, he’s been there. Py gorry, I
sorry. I tarn sorry. Soon I get te good idea. I toan
know if he work. I try him, though. Werra, thish
te way I work him. 1 go town in te night time to
Chimmy Buckran’s pub, and I trive hes cow out te
paddock up te manuka to my prace and tie him up
inside te whare. About te seven o’crock I go pass te
pub. I see Chimmy he’s rooking up te road. He
sing out, “You see my cow, llenare?” I purr up te
horse an’ say, “No, i no see him. You roose him,
Chimmy?” He say, “Yes, I roose him, an’ I want
te mirrik for te break fas’. You go an’ have te rook
for him, I give you te rong peer.” Tha’s no good
to me. I rike te peer, you know, but I want te
money. So I go away for te time, an’ come pack
an’ say I no can’t fine him. Chimmy he say to rook
te nother way. Two-tree time I make out I have te
rook, but toan fine him—l have te rong peer every
time, though. Then I say I no rook no more; I
liaere home have te sreep. Chimmy he rouse to me.
He say he can’t go himserrif, so I mus’ go; but I
get te rouse, too, for I toan think he’s going to
work, so I say to him to get te cow hisserrif, if I goan
home. Then Chimmy he frighten I co. so he say:
“Rook here, Henare, you fine him py dinner-time I
give you te five pob.” By gorry, I te very grad
then. I got te bite, so I say I have te rast rook.
Then I co away an’ have te sreep ’pout te two
hours. When I make sure there’s nobody sees me, I
trive te cow back. By gorry, Chimmy he’s very
grad to see him. He give me te five pob and to
rong beer with him. I tarn near te chiclcer. Then
1 chump on te horse an’ garrop rike herra for te
Torago Pay, and have te bosherker time.
“M.E.”: We were returning from the
picnic races at Whiteman’s, and had drifted into the
bar of the Half-way House. Breasting the cedar
was a little chap who seemed to be trying to get rid
of the flavor of his last whisky. Looking up to Bung
he said: “’Ow much fer the bottle?” Half a dollar
was the value put on it. The exchange completed,
the purchaser promptly smashed the bottle on the
form. “Here, wotcher do that for?” Bung demanded
fiercely. “Hain’t some cove’s life worf ’arf a dollar?”
the little chap replied, as he spat out the remem-
brance of his last, taste...
“Nunawading” : A Melbourne antiquarian
has a copy of one of the printed handkerchiefs which
were nailed to trees on the Gippsland coast in 1846
and 1847, addressed to a shipwrecked white woman
who was supposed to be held in captivity by the
blacks. The notice mentioned for the lady’s com-
fort that 14 armed men, partly white and partly
black, were out in search of her. A common belief
later on was that the blacks had got possession of
the white figurehead of a ship representing a woman,
and that hence arose the legend. The lady has been
twice embodied in fiction. First, in a tale called
“The Heart,” written in 1849, by ltussell, one of
Melbourne’s first two surveyors; again, by H. G.
Turner, who published a serial about her, called
“The Captive of Gippsland,” in’ 1857. Certainly
there were a few shreds of evidence to support the
theory that there was a real woman in the case.
Thus, Buntine, of Echuca, one of the searchers, told
in the Australian Journal in 1874 that a towel
and an article of white woman’s attire were found in
a deserted blacks’ camp. But though the ship’s
figurehead would scarcely wear the unmentionable
garment, it would be quite possible for the niggers
to gather that curio as well as the other one from
the same wreck.
“T.F.R.” : Let me into this talk about the
inherent badness of river-mouth ports. Embayed
harbors, like Port Jackson and Port Stephens, carry
deep water, not because no big rivers flow into then!,
but because their entrances are flanked by rocky
headlands running out to deep water, whereas riiost
of the N.S.W. coastal rivers debouch through sand-
banks on one or both sides. The mouths of these
rivers are not shoaled up by debris brought down by
floods, but by the sand which is beaten into them
by the sea in the intervals between floods. The
Hawkesbury is a big river which sends down a lot
of silt in floods; but there are no bars or shoals
about the rock-bound bay through which it enters the
sea. All the bar-bound rivers have deep entrances
for a time after floods, because the flood carries out
not only the river silt, but also the sand beaten up
by the sea during preceding floodless years. The
Clarence had a wide, straight entrance 40ft. deep
for some time after its last big flood, though for
years previously it had a narrow, tortuous channel.
All these rivers can be improved to some extent, and
some of them can be made better deep-sea ports at
less cost than Byron Bay or Coff’s Harbor, by pro-
perly-designed breakwaters to take the place of
natural rock headlands, keeping back the sand and
directing the tidal currents. Certainly a lot of
money has been wasted on most of them on the
badly-designed plans of incompetent engineers; never-
theless considerable improvement has been effected at
the Richmond and Clarence. The Hunter entrance
has improved steadily for years, as the northern
breakwater has been extended, and some of the
boulders removed from the bed of the bar. Further-
more, roadsteads like Coif's Harbor and Port Ivembla
are very different from natural embayed harbors such
as Port Jackson, and have a tendency to shoal up
when an attempt is made to improve them by pro-
tecting walls. That was what happened at Trial
Bay, and the experience is being repeated at Port
Ivembla, : and will probably follow any building of
sea walls at Coff’s Harbor or Byron Bay.
COUSIN JACK DIPLOMACY.
COUSIN JACK: “ Dost thee knaw what I
think 'bout thy horse, Billy?"
COUSIN BILLY: “ Naw."
COUSIN JACK: “ Well, thee and thy horse
ought t ’ change places. ilia's what I
think 'bout thy horse."
THE DIET OF WORMS.
1ST JACKASS: “Wot are them fellers kickin' up such a fuss about down there?"
2ND JACKASS: “I pinched all the worms outer their tin while they were fishin', an' each
thinks the other done it."
“E. 8.8.”: About a month ago the dry
spell in nor’-west N. S. Wales was instructive to
the pessimists who had been bewailing the passing
of the bush-life. Emus, kangaroos and brush tur-
keys flocked into the outskirts of the towns, gathered
up the sparse green food, and poked noses and bills
into water-tanks when .civilisation was at lunch or
taking a nan.' Along the railway line, between
Inverell and Moree especially, emus fairly swarmed.
The recent rains, however, will send them into
retirement again; but the yelp that the emu is
becoming extinct can* be,- turned on to the padlocked
ear for a good while vet.
“Lautana”: Something extra in the way
of a resurrection happened at Narrabri (N.S.W.) the
other day. The contractor for the new bridge over
the Namoi was plumbing for a place to put down a
pile, when he struck what’ felt like wood, and subse-
quently something still harder, which he took .to
be iron. The upshot was the raising from the bed
of the river of an ancient waggon, which had been
embedded in the Namoi mud for 25 years. The
oldest inhabitant remembered that on New Year’s
Night in ’B9 the knuts of the town hauled a waggon,
the property of the lately-deceased Buchanan; of Kil-
larney station, out of the shop, of one Moffat, a
blacksmith, and trundled it into the river. The
remains of the midnight revel of a quarter of a cen-
tury ago are now lying on the bank. The contractor
states that some of the ironbark timber in thg wreck
is as good as it was the day the waggon was cpm-
pleted.
“Mulga” : I can vouch for the existence of
the spider introduced to the company by “Jack S.”
in the Abo. columns (B. 21/5/’l4). After the heavy
rains in Western Queensland, February, 1911, they
turned up in myriads. So thick were their webs in
the mulga country that after a day’s ride with stock
one presented the appearance of having just come
out of an exploded lace factory. But “Jack S.” is
wrong when he says that the boss spider does no
toil. I have watched him making his domicile, and
a more beautiful piece of work would be hard to
imagine. I guarantee if all the books of Euclid were
applied to it the measurements would be found
correct. When the web is completed the head serang
moves to the centre and waits for callers. As soon
as one wipes his feet on the mat the proprietor is at
him like a frenzied Suffragette, rolls him in web.
stows him on the shelf, spits on his own hands, and
three paces for the next rush. I have often
seen 20 or 30 flies rolled up in various parts of the
web. The boss may sample one or two, but he
apparently looks out for the rainy day. I always
thought the small spiders to be offspring of the
boss; certainly he gives them the gentle hoof when
they are old enough to shift for themselves.
“N.11.M.”: “Moana” (B. 30/4/’l4) libels
the poor mutton-birds unwarrantably. I venture to sav
lie’s neither tasted nor smelt them. Millions con
each year to the islands north of Tas., and though
the season lasts only about two months it
provides easily the most remunerative industry there-
abouts. Birding begins on March 20, and lasts
until all birds have left their burrows. (That’s
right—they’re underground hatchers.) Each bird
A FRIEND OF HIS FATHER'S.
A RTISH: “Ah, what do you think of that
joke?"
EDITOR: “Oh, first rate. I always did think
a lot of it."
yields about a wineglassful of the most penetrating
oil known. After being plucked and cleaned, the
muttons are packed in casks and are retailed in
Launceston at 4d. Numbers of people prefer the
birds to any known dish. Somewhat over a million
of them are transported annually.
(Continued, on page 24J
TOMASO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A N.Q. hotelkeeper was recently fined because cer-
tain Italian laborers drinking on his premises sang
remarkably well and drew a crowd. The conviction
was upset on appeal, but a further appeal to the Full
Court confirmed it on the grounds that the licensee
allowed “public singing” on his premises. “Public
singing,” said the Chief Justice, “may be properly
defined as such singing of one or more persons as
attracts the public into the place where the singing
occurs or keeps them there longer than they other-
wise would stay.”
Tomaso was a Dago brown
Who toiled with vim and energy,
And when Tomaso went to town
With countrymen as gay as he,
He took them to the hostelry
Of jaynial Daniel Donalioo,
And cried, “We have da goota spree,
And then we sing da song for you! ”
So some they drank the good long beer,
And some they laid the whisky low,
And then recalled, with pensive tear,
The golden days of Long Ago.
And some were soft of voice and soul,
The sons of tender Tuscany ;
And sweetly made the echoes roll—-
They sang, in sooth, bewitchingly.
Attracted by the Dagoes’ lay
Admiring crowds a-ncar them drew,
And ’fore the evening passed away
There came a casual copper, too,
Who went and told the magistrate:
“Italian blokes they sang so well
That on the thirtieth (note the day)
They drew a crowd to Dan’s hotel.”
The Beak replied: “Bring Donalioo,
And let him answer for his crime—
He let those Dagoes warble through
The night in perfect tune and time.’’
When Dan was brought: “O Daniel D.,
If man, will sing in your hotel,
So long as discords follow spree ’
And scare the crowd off —all is well!
“But if with silver-throated sound
They charm the crowd to wander near,
Then dost thou break thy legal bound
And earn a fine, O Man of Beer!”
So Daniel paid his fine and swore
No son of Rome or Lombardy
Should ever shake his dram-shop more
With vinous chant or melody.
“I niver 'Once was fined afore,
When howlin’ divils shook the moon,
But these chaps from the Dago shore
Fergot the game and sang in tune.
“They pleased the public ear, bedad ;
And so the Act, with loud hee-haw,
Savs: ‘Donalioo, your case is bad—
Your tin is forfeit to the Law.’ ”
It is not Beer that’s counted bad
Nor raucous coots upon the spree;
The sin is wine that maketh glad
And moves the soul to harr-mony.
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER F.


Show Window
Lighting.
A
E
G
To make Store Front
Lighting Attractive
by Night Special
Fixtures are Needed.
fgh
No. 746.—01ive green enamel, with gold lining,
Parabola reflector, enamel white inside,
watertight holder, suitable for 200=400
C.P., wired ready for use
You demand the Best —we give it —and Guarantee it
Write for leaflet “ Watertight Fittings XX99.”
Australian Metal Co. Ltd.,
40-42 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY,
172-6 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
Gilbert Place.
ADELAIDE.
YR
............ J
m
The NELSON “BANKER” CARBONATOR
Unparalleled Investment for Progressive Hotelkeepers.
This is nerfectly true. There is nothing calculated to produce such tremendous profits anywhere.
The “BANKER” is the most up-to-date and efficient carbonating outfit on the market. There
is nothing else just like it —it is in a class by itself. No hotelkeeper who is “live” can afford
to be without it. It’s a veritable gold mine.
IT MARES FOR £4 WHAT YOU WOULD HAVE TO PAY £2O FOR FROM THE
MANUFACTURERS, besides being infinitely better Aerated Waters.
You cannot close your eyes to facts like these when big’ profits can be earned and equally big
sums can be obtained.
The “BANKER” is a complete carbonating outfit —there are no etceteras to pull out
for, like many kinds. When you get a “BANKER” you have all the plant you require, and
everything of the best in it, too. Its construction is perfect, and every machine is made in our
own factory, under our personal supervision. There is nothing complicated—nothing to get out of
gear. Simple to control, and absolutely satisfactory in every detail.
Rise to the occasion—embrace this splendid opportunity. Write to us Priroc from Q 9*»
for full particulars— NOW! Don’t put it off. ACT NOW! illvKi IIUUi Ibv.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.
219 George Street, Sydney.
Also Turbot Buildings, Turbot Street, Brisbane
Efficient TRIPLEX
POWER PUMPS
For Every Service
If you are interested in the most effective, satisfactory and
economical method of water pumping for
m
u» %
Factory, Mine, Irrigation,
Municipal, or a General
Water System
you will find it profitable to
investigate the efficiency of our
Modern TRIPLEX
POWER PUMP
The remarkable efficiency and
lasting service of our Power
Pumps, plus LOW COST OF
MAINTENANCE, make them
easily the most satisfactory to
instal.
TRIPLEX POWER PUMP.
We also stock CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
Write ns to-clay giving particulars of your water requirements,
and we will send you full particulars, and quotation for a suitable
outfit.
X l h d “POILITE”
Asbestos Cement
Sheets and Tiles
(Genuine British i¥3ade)
An investigation into net building costs will promptly disclose the
superiority of “POILITE” Sheets. Their first cost is about the
same as weatherboard, and as they require no painting, and become
harder and stronger each year, their maintenance cost is mi.
“POILITE” is therefore the cheapest material on the market.
At the time of manufacture “POILITE” Sheets are unusually
strong, and each year their strength increases. This means increased
value to structure, instead of the usual depreciation.
“POILITE” is the best insurance against fire. It is also ant-
proof, germ-proof, non-absorbent, cool in summer, warm in winter,
and can be easily nailed into position.
“POILITE” TILES
make attractive and economical roofs. Being light in structure,
they allow a big saving in the roofing framework. “POILITE”
Tiles are guaranteed British Standard Thickness.
Our “POILITE” Catalog “M” will he promptly mailed, together
with samples of “POILITE” on request.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD.,
115 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD.,
499 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
•Selling Agents: CHAS< £■ BER.NAYS, 45 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE;
STEEL & BAKER, ADELAIDE; J. R. W. GARDAM, PERTH.


yi
II ii" "y'gT^
SsElr ii ii ii II HI
fgh
BLACK & SMOKELESS
SPORTING & MATCH
CARTRIDGES
THE MOST RELIABLE OF ALL
AMMUNITION.
ASK YOUR STOREKEEPER FOR
KYBLACK—BLACK POWDER,
SWIFT, BONAX, PRIMAX,
GASTIGHT, P.G. SMOKELESS
POWDER.
Wholesale only:
SCOTTISH HOUSE, 90 William St., Melbourne.
KYNOCH HOUSE, 277 Clarence St., Sydney.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360=6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE SIREET, BRISBANE.
Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you pet the genuine with the
signature, Martin. Chemist. Southampton.*
fghfgh
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in the
1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed... 165,000
Paid-up ... 82,500
Branches in every State.
Agents wanted. Write for particulars.
11. S. DOlll'.ltTV, General Manager.
CLOSING
Emasculator
does away with all
risk of bleeding-.
Postage Free 45/-
Aly Hints on Castrating"
enable any man used to Stock
to cut with the “Safety”
either Colts, Bulls, Rams, or
Boars.
Other patterns of
Emaseulators from
30/- toso -
Zoeller’s “Handy”
Castrating Knife, 3/6
is a lovely bit of Steel.
Carl Zoeller,
246 Queen St.,
BRISBANE, Q.
Send for complete
Veterinary Catalog.
_ It's FREE
“Bulli”: “Oimai” mentions the indulgent
nature of the aboriginal as a parent, and reckons
him a “spoiler” of his kiddies (B. 28/5/’l4). Here's
an instance of the spoiling. At Edjudina, in out-
back W.A., I met a fine-looking old nigger with a
little chap of about seven following at heel, quite
naked. The poor little beggar had a large sore
between the shoulder blades, which seemed to occupy
most of his attention, there being plenty of flies
alonga Edjudina. “Hullo, Billy,” said I, “what
happen that feller ?” “Nothing, boss, nothing. Him
too much run about; mother burnum longa firestick
kcepum quiet.”
* * ■» *
“Tanobada”: In Papua, the Common-
wealth’s first dependency, the interests of 'the native
land owners are being well preserved. Witness the
following figures showing how the Territory was
divided in the 30th June, 1913, the latest statistics
on the subject:—
Acres.
Area of land held by the natives. . 56,538,569
Area of Government lands . . . . 1,092,800
Freehold lands held by white folk. . 23,295
Leasehold lands held by white folk 290,936
Area of the Territory .. 57,945,600
Of the freehold lands no less than 4813 acres are
held by the various missionary corporations operating
in the Territory—in many instances quite the choicest
spots along the coast and opposite the safest anchor-
ages. Though the native-owned land is so much
greater than that held by the Government the in-
tending settler need have no fear that he will not
be able to obtain a camping ground. In only a few
instances has the cheerful savage refused to sell his
acres, preferring to hold them unimproved than to
allow the hated white man to use them, and in these
few cases it has been only some old man who has
hung on to his soil. When these patriots join their
fathers, their sons usually make no fuss about part-
ing, for nearly every one of them owns thousands
of acres that will never be of any use to him.
The local rag, published in Port Moresby, raises a
howl occasionally about there not being enough land
for settlers, but it really lias nothing to bark about.
There is enough and sufficient for everybody—white,
brown, black, striped and otherwise.
UNSUITABLE INGREDIENTS.
M URIEL: “Old ‘ Roast-beef-well-done ’ was in with 'Just-a-tiny-cutlet-please ’ again to-day."
MABBEL: “Yes! They're getting married soon. Nice hash they'll make of it!"
NOT MUCH THE MATTER.
MARRIED DAUGHTER: "The fact is, mother, the only thing that's wrong with George is
that he hasn't a redeeming feature in his character."
MOTHER (feeling a little better): “And apart from that he's all right?"
“The Beater”: Can any of you town
blokes describe to me and scores of other interested
Outbackers how the Chow’s game of fantan is
played ? I have heard miles of long, lean bushmen
say that they have seen the game played in Out-
back towns, and have got the Pongs to try to explain
it, but could never get the hang of it from any of
them. I’ll lay a willy-willy ,to a pint of seabreeze
that the gentle game of fantan has got more bushics
boxed than any other gamble going.
“Beronal” : There has been a fair amount
of attention given lately to the difference between
crocodiles and alligators, but nobody has definitely
nailed the truth or otherwise of the statement or
legend that the croc, moves the upper jaw, while
the ’g'ator moves the lower jaw. Any authority
(barring Johnson, M.H.R., who doesn’t know a
crocodile from a log of w'ood) is at liberty to clear
the matter up.
“Second Class”: Did you ever hear of
ghee? Did you ever smell it? Do you know what
it is to live with it days and nights on end? I
hadn’t run up against it until I took passage with a
Lascar crew for a run round. As I went aboard a
sort of shadow or foreboding of evil seemed to come
over me. I experienced a sinking of the stomach,
and it was revealed to me that, a cow was walking
over my grave. Then my nose, which is always
on duty, telegraphed Headquarters that something
was dead. I turned to an officer who happened to be
standing by, and asked him, as man to man, what
was making That Smell. He looked me up and down
as if I had no earthly right to mention the tragedy to
him, and said something coldly polite. I passed on
dazedly into the bowels of the ship, and the aroma of
Doom wrapped itself round me like a boa-con-
strictor, and got into my hair and my thoughts, and
permeated my immortal soul. Presently I felt as
if I had been acquainted with that smell
for 10,000 years; but I didn’t g>et to
know its ancient name until I had been
inquiring for two whole days. It was a fellow-
passenger who told me. “Oh, that’s ghee, you know
—the clarified Hindu butter they give the crew.
That’s the beauty of this cheap colored labor —it
eats stinking things like that instead of real food.”
I fixed him with an eye which the mirror opposite
showed me was bloodshot and wild. “Then it’s the
crew’s food that stinks like that—you’re sure it
isn’t bilge-water 'or bad oil in the engines
or a neglected corpse?” He was a light-
hearted man, that passenger—he laughted. “Yes,
the crew’s food, and the crew and —oh, I
say! Did you have that suit you’re wearing washed
on board?” “I did!” “Thought so! You’re
gliee-d!” It was impossible for me to tear off my
coat and smell it; I had to sit quite still and humbly
take his word for it that I was the equivalent of a
boiling-down establishment. But the blow was soft-
ened by the cheerful assurance that we were all
ghee-d together, and would just have to live it off.
“Panhandle Pete”: Twice lately I have
noticed so-called well-informed persons warning Aus-
tralia of the danger, not of a Jap, but of a Javanese,
invasion. Have either of these individuals ever seen
Java and the Javanese? I guess not. The Javanese,
the Malay, the Dyaks, and all their kindred are but
one great family, alike in many respects. If one can
speak Javanese one can converse with a Malay. But
the greatest bond of all is their glorious aversion to
work. The Javanese ji?st love it—l don’t think.
Brains they have to a certain extent, 1 don't deny,
hut they will never in a hundred decades approach to
any degree the civilisation even of the Japs. If they
did desire to invade Australia what would the Dutch
be doing to let their cheap -labor leave so casually?
Again, supposing the Dutch do not mind losing some
10 or 15 millions of the little brown men, what trans-
port have these to take them to Australia ? As to
armament, certainly they have their karangs, a sort
of heavy carving knife, about 12 to 15 inches long;
and the kris, or dagger, and perhaps the bow and
arrow; but I can't imagine Australia being invaded
with knives and canoes, as it were. In fact, I’ll bet
anybody two drinks it couldn’t be done.
“Ding Bat”: The cow cocky is not the
only dirty scut in the milk business. Factory mana-
gers share the dishonor with him. T know creameries
where strainers are used regularly as a matter of
course. And you ought to see some of the little
things that are left behind —from personal experience
I’m speaking of Maoriland. Why are the factories
allowed to accept cream in such a state? 1 reckon
they are chiefly to blame for the cow cocky’s dirtiness
—they set the example.
“Overseer” : Just a word about, the Indian
coolie that the Bruce Smiths, of the community think
a most desirable colonist for the Northern Territory.
was overseer on a Fiji sugar plantation, employing
some 80-odd coolies, 20 of whom were women. The
boss, wishing to know the 1 : state of health of his
labor, had them all examined by the doctor, and his
report broke the news that 70 per cent, of the men
and 86 per cent, of the women were affected with
syphilis in some form or other. According to
the doctor, some plantations are pVen worse. I was
invited to have a look over the hospital, and 1 haven’t
got a good word for the man who sent the invita-
tion. There were men and women who were whole
masses of running sores and suffering great agony.
Salvarsan is being injected; into the poor wretches
with excellent results, but the doctor said there
was no hope for the worst of them. Let the Bruce
Smiths have a look at some of the cases that I have
cited and they’ll swear off coolie for ever.
“S.S.”: There in some sense in Kirby’s
attitude towards life as revealed to me by Kirby in
person yesternoon. Kirby is a “beat”—frankly, a
waster, a blighter, a loafer, and a despiser of strong
soap. He admits that he has sworn off work now and
for evermore, richer or poorer, for better or worse.
This is the one* solemn obligation of his life, never
to touch or handle any tool of trade or industrial
device or utensil of any kind whatever. He dresses
the part, his stand-by and triumphant apology being
a pair of abnormally swollen feet. Willie Kirby’s
twin feet arc not naturally large or more mis-
shapen than an ordinary 411). loaf, but with adul-
teration’s artful aid he makes them look so prepos-
terous that not even the toughest advocate of pri-
vate personal enterprise deems it wise to offer him
a job. Said Willie to me, using excellent English
and an impressive drawl with the .Oxford finish: “1
desisted from the pursuit of all forms of industry 18
years ago. I did so because by this time Fate had
impressed upon me, with all necessary emphasis, the
folly of my endeavors. My luck was so shocking that
1 could not attempt anything' without inviting dis-
aster. I was born rich, and when I reached years of
discretion at which a man can enjoy riches I was
poverty-stricken by a sudden mishap. With the
money I could get from those affectionate relations
who were glad to be rid of me I took passage to
Australia. Here I had the’ time of my life. The
boom had just burst. I don't know what the boom
was, but its bursting had been a very satisfactory
explosion, I gather. I searched minutely, and got
miserable jobs here and there on trial, and always,
failed to come up to expectation. The trouble with
me was that I couldn t do aiiything. You’d think
washing dishes in a cheap restaurant was a grip
within the capacity of any mammal above the grade
of a Gibraltar ape. A Veil; I displayed shocking in-
ability as a. dishwasher, and was sacked on the second
day. With the best intentions on earth, aided and
abetted by an empty stomach, I couldn’t retain my
grip. I broke five articles an hour. That was m'v
last steady job. For a month after 1 hunted work
■ like a madman, infected with the curious idea of
simple people that there is no other way of. earning
a living. Then I starved —absolutely starved. The
rubbish bins of the period offered poor sustenance.
Nobody in Melbourne could afford to have rubbish
at that time. There came a night—a cold, wet night
—when I concluded the finish was at hand. 1 was
wolfish. I was bare almost to the bone, and had
ci ept for shelter into a corner of an ironmonger’s
yard between a packing case and a rotting fence.
Sixpence would have saved me. 1 hadn’t a solitary
copper. There was nothing for it but to sit anil
endure, and dwell on the blessed beneficence of
death. At about two in the morning a policeman
ferreted me out. lie dragged me from my lair by
the leg, and was about to administer the law in his
own right, when his eye fell upon some object that
had been dislodged and brought to view by the
ploughing of my bare knucklebones over the ground.
He picked it up. It was a rotted purse. There was
a street, lamp just above us, and I saw gold fall out
into his hands. lie thrust the purse into his pocket.
Git a move on, you!’ he said, and prompted me
with his boot. ill rough those hours of hunger and
suffering I had been sitting on a full purse, and the
prize fell to the fat policeman who booted me into
the Vain. I decided right there it was madness to
attempt to do anything with luck like mine; so 1 lav
down in the middle of the road, and presently a
G.P.O. clearing waggon ran over me, and 1 was taken
to the hospital. Since then, I have never looked
back.”
THE MUSHROOM LIARS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At Jimbill, on the Boolingar,
The mushroom harvest had come round,
And citizens in Brady’s bar
Were telling of some boomers found
Along the banks of Carter’s Creek,
To shock a stranger, mild and meek.
Said Gregg: “If you’ll believe me, mate,
I gathered one the other day
That scaled just half a hundred-weight.”
“That’s no great fungus,” answered Grey.
“Excuse me,” Gregg said, rather hot,
“That was the smallest one 1 got.
“The largest stood just three feet high,
And went nine feet across the crown.
They tell me that it will supply
The biggest restaurants in town
For weeks to come, though T admit
I sent down only half of it.”
“That’s nothing,” mused the stranger meek.
“We grew them big at Scoogill’s Rise.
We hit on one the other week
Which was, I think, a tidy size—
They walled it round with slab and bough ;
Ten men are living in it now!”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


is
■
*
.
i
a
*
■
v
gf§
Pfe
m
>
ill
I*
- *1
m
m
' •
': ,
■
■
;*
1
..
3K&*
m,
f?
77
mgm
y*


WINFRED CIGARETTES
w
Nf
R
E
D
C
i
G
TT
E 3
\h
:<iV-
mmanww'x
'■jr
minm*
§:£{i > ’
y//
o gv;v\\\x>_
F
I
N
E
S
T
V
I
R.
G
I
I
A
io
FOR
6°
DELICIOUS IN FLAVOUR UNIQUE IN QUALITY
OF ALL HIGH CLASS TOBACCONISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO., LTD., Lon don. Eng
20
FOR
fgh
“Rosna” (London) : The latest infant prodigy, little
Willie Ferrero, is less of an infliction than usual.
Indeed, after the precocious Anthony Asquith, the
11-ycar-old son of the Prime Minister, who writes
letters to the press and lectures on Mozart and
Beethoven, William is comic relief. The seven-year-
old kiddy—a diminutive seven at that —conducts tull-
fledged symphony orchestras like a veteran, and in the
huge spaces of the Albert Hall looks like a small
speck on his high stand. He knows nothing techni-
cally of music, can play no instrument, and cannot
read a note, but conducting seems to be instinct
within him. He hears a thing played once on the
piano, and once or twice by an orchestra, and then
he knows all about it. Some of the men of the
Svmphony Orchestra played wrong notes to contuse
him, but he pulled ’em up sternly every tune.
From S’Africa: J. C. Williamson’s Gilbert and
Sullivan Opera Co., now touring this country, is
composed of an Australian chorus and English prin-
cipals, with the exception of the tenor, who • was
engaged in England with the others, but is the son
of a Sydney parson. Everywhere through SAn ica
the principals have left audiences cold; the whole
success of the tour is due to the chorus, which is
acknowledged to be the best ever brougat this way.
Concerted items are encored repeatedly, while the
efforts of the principals find very little favoi. All.
along one heard praise of the chorus, and some of
the voices made one wonder why they did not super-
sede those in the cast, the ladies particularly. A\ hen
Australian cleverness is turned down foi English
mediocritv it makes one think. Another case in
point. The Steel-Payne Bellringers are a
tion that commands crowded houses nightly through
South Africa. As everyone knows, it is an Australian
eo. ; but it has been its practice to engage some
English turns as well. These arc nearly always
unsuccessful; the Australian turns are always suc-
cessful On at least one tour the English turns had
to be sent back to the “old country, an absolute
frost. . , .
“jFH” (from London) : The cinematographic
drama has arrived. Its pioneer, Edward Knoblanch,
is the man who provided Oscar Asche with such a
trump card in “Kismet,” and who added to his fame
and bank balance as joint author of Milestones.
lie has scored again in “My Lady]s % Dress at the
Royalty—a rapidly-moving piece in eight scenes,
each so independent of the rest that it is practically
a one-act play. Gladys Cooper, a fashionable beauty,
has just got a new fifty-guinea dress, and musing
over it she falls asleep and has what she calls a
beastlv dream.” Her dream makes up the play. She
sees all the scenes of sweating, drudgery and horror
in Italy, Siberia, the East End of London and else-
where—the dress has-passed. Finally she pledges her
husband to “do something for the toilers. Cheers.
Carriages. .
“Stargazer”: There is one actress in Australia
who doesn’t know her business from the advertising
point of view. This is clever Dorothy Judge, him
histrion, who came from her native New v ork to
fl KU re in a set of Australian motion pictures spun
off bv the Spencer people. While staying at a coun-
try hotel in N.S.W., Miss Judge, being then em-
ployed in scurrying across some picturesque scenery
while the hired villain still pursued her, hit upon the
bright idea of secreting her surplus jewels in an
orange. One morning she cut a strip of skin out ot
the orange, stuffed a prized necklet into the fruit,
replaced the skin, and left the orange lying loose on
her dressing-table. When she returned the orange
was still there, but it was sucked dry, and the neck-
let was gone. Under it was a note : 1 hanks, I like
oranges.” This incident would have been worth
quids as a special advt. for the ordinary star; but
film specialists arc not so eager to be puffed up,
hence the subsequent silence.
An extraordinary venture in public entertainment
was the “A.N.A. Fete and Education Exhibition,
which came to pass at Melb. Exhibition budding a
while ago The fete committee had so much iaith
in the attractions of an educational-cum-sports pro-
gramme that it spent A 1509 on the erecting of
benches and stands for a show which brought only
£ 9 554 in gate monev. Advertising and stationery
consumed more than 33 per cent, of the receipts
at the turnstiles. The total intake from all sources
was £3270, whilst the total cash output was £.)Bio.
Sports, prize-winners, and bands r £4B6, and the
Education committees outlay was £a<6. the Watt
Government has recognised a moral responsibility in
this little matter by granting £<oo towards squanng
the accounts. , . .
It was announced in Hobart lately that font
new plays of Shaltspeare had been discovered and
would be produced at the local Empire Theatie.
The advt. in the Mf.rcuev read thus: “Hamlet.
6000 ft. Hamlet. Twenty-two 1 icked Playe s.
William Shakspeare, in the 15th Century, wrote the
Wonderful Collection of Plays that have been handed
down to posterity, and are known the world over.
Undoubtedly one of the Most Remarkable of his
works is the Tragedy of Hamlet, the Moody Dane.
Others include ‘The Black Bart,’ ‘Chronicle, Pious
Undertaking,’ ‘Girl Outlaw.’ ” But why omit ihe
Grimace at the Window”? Surely there is no doubt
about that!
“Bilrock”: Apropos of Bernard Shaw s new
“naughty word” play, “Pygmalion,” which has stirred
up a small cyclone of adverse criticism in drammahtic
circles of the Old Smoke, it is interesting to notice
with what tenderness the various newspapers handled
the crimson adjective in their references to the
show. Most of them funked it altogether Some
minted “bl —y” for the expletive. One daily boldly
declared itself too genteel to print it in any shape
or form. Another regarded the use of it as per-
fectly unpardonable” and “positively pernicious. A
third, with nice delicacy, substituted a plain
for the horrid thing, and then proceeded to indicate
how the word might be legitimately employed, by
telling in bold'type the following story: Two work-
men were discussing a house. Said one: There s a
bloody fine ’ouse’ ; to which his mate replied: Not
so bloody 'neither.’ ” After all, the much-discussed
adjective comes as a welcome change after the deluge
of “damns” with which the stage has been flooded.
“Pygmalion,” with the big parts in the capable
hands of Mrs. Pat Campbell. Tree and Edmund
Gurney, is only a passable entertainment. The play,
which is a long way below Shaw’s best,_ has just
enough clever tomfoolery to save it from being blanky
dull.
From London: Oswald Stoll, the Australian-born
boss of the London Coliseum, is a man of ideas, llis
latest has taken the form of a novel act-drop- Tt
represents a terrace and garden bathed in sunlight,
with a “Temple of Fame” on the right. Into this
temple a procession of celebrities is passing. Among
them readily recognisable are Genee, J.
Herbert Tree, Mary Anderson, Mrs. lat Campbell,
Henry Irving, Harry Lauder, Shakspeare, Bacon,
Tennyson, Ibsen, Moliere, Paderewski, George Kobev
and other assorted celebrities. The artist responsible
is Joseph Barker, whose pictorial work has been
seen in Australia.
“Bookware”: In the last volume I have of the
Deutsche Rundschau (Berlin) there is a German
translation of scenes from a unique Sanscrit play, in
blank verse, by Dr. Suri, of Madras, entitled The
Delhi Coronation,” in five acts. A prologue shows
the theatrical manager, his poet and his actor, dis-
cussing what to produce, as in the 1' aust pro-
logue. They decide on glorifying Emperor George.
Then there is a long soliloquy by Yiceroy llaidinge.
He declares that, as Minto did not retrieve much of
Curzon’s unpopularity, George must come and be
crowned at Delhi. The next scene is in the House
of Lords, Westminster. Secretary Crewe is the
chair. Morley proposes the Lmperor s trip to India.
Lansdowne opposes, but it is earned triuiiiphan y.
The scene shifts to Buckingham Palace. Here aie
introduced King George, Queen Mary, the lnnce ot
Wales and Queen-Mother Alexandra. A gorgeous
deputation of' Indian magnificoes implores the Lm-
peror to come to his beloved people. The Queen and
Queen-Mother are nervous An astrologer is called
in: he declares the trip will be perfectly sa f c S° it
is decided on. Then conies Bombay in festivity tor
the Emperor’s arrival. The last scene is the Delhi
Durbar, incredibly splendid. “ T ,^ e ,
kins” is Master of Ceremonies. Whethei all this is
intended for a burlesque, I don t know. Di. bun
must be a well-informed man, but he has given l
imagination a riotous time.
“Trotter” - “11.M.5. Pinafore” is brought out on a
colossal scale at the New York Hippodrome. There
is real water, a mighty chorus, extraordinary scenic
splendor and marine accessories. 1 ortsmouth bay
soarkles in the sunshine. Ihe expanse of deck holds
a whole man-o’-war crew. Masts and rigging runup
75ft high Real cannons boom a salute through the
portholes. Porter and Corcoran come in boats each
with six oarsmen. Sailors swarm by up
rigging and dress the ship. Sir Joe Porter s sisters,
cousins anil aunts are about a hundred strong. It
ill sounded like the idea of a millionaire pork but-
cher when I heard of it first; but it is catching on
hugely, and that is all the millionaire pork-butchei
troubles about. • - , ,
“R Bro”- In the halls in the Dutch dorps of
S’Africa the chairs are all arranged in long, straight
rows. By-and-bye a fat Dutch vroUw comes along
and makes room for herself by kicking back a chair
or two, and pushing forward a chair or two ; and as
others come in they push back a chair or two, and
push forward a-chair or two, even if they are thin
People and find plenty of room. Nobody is ever
satisfied with the position of the chair; it must be
shifted if only an inch. In 10 minutes the audience
sits anyhow; chairs are at all angles to permit of
conversation, and not a single row is unbroken. At
interval-time the men go out unfailingly for drinks,
or to smoke cigarettes, and the women redistribute
themselves to talk local scandal. The habit ot
shovin'-- about chairs has always been a trouble to
managers, who find halls are full with hair their
capacUy; but no management will ever cope with
the S’African custom of shifting a movable peich
before sitting on it. . _. .
“Boggo”: Percy St. John occupies in Brisbane a
stand about midway between those of Beau Bruninie
and the late Harry Rickards. A partner with le
Holland in the Empire Theatre in the Northern
dorp, he is at the same time the glass of fashion and
the mould of form to quite a lot of people theie,
Born Smith, he came to Brisbane years ago with a
vaudeville co., which included the late Slade Murray,
Nina Tulloch (“the Australian Magpie ), Hosea
Easton (the banjoist) and other lesser lights. Seeing
that the land was good, he abode there, under his
stage name of St. John, his activities including
theatrical lesseeship, flutters on the Stock Exchange
and journalism. For a time he edited Clashes, on
the late Mrs. George Harris’s behalf.
“Gordon G.”: Does every Poverty Pointy k .< t he
that “the stage’’ directly emanated *ro Ush
Church”? The first public ” Henry 1.,
drama were given, «h in the tun invari ibV
in the churches, and the subjects l at ive and
“religious.” Their object was pie >' £>' b ulk
intended to instruct the congregation (the P
of which could not read) on the duet innam*
out in the Bible. Hence the name Mi
The actors were the clergy and the c T ancient
weren t any chorus gills then). trav-
rhrnniclers record that the audiences and rne iaa
bits became so numerous that the contemporary v
pilots waxed exceeding proud of having hit the
public taste and brought the Church into Jme ™
modern thought. Indeed, so frequently was the lu
house” placard put up that it was soon fouiid nece
sarv to perform in the adjoining giounds. iniiigs
went swimmingly for a while, but th e eiow s
, 0 big that the graves began to cave in, and me
ghosts offered the most strenuous objections. So
the boom burst. Just here (were at about 14.)
now) the laity stepped in. Some of it
and Y.M.C.A.’s and Repertory theatres and amateui
dramatic clubs. The “Miracle Plays were sWI . »
vogue, e.a., “Abraham and Isaac, Noah, Balaam
and His Ass” and (possibly) “Joseph and His Bieth-
ren ” A contemporary observes that since the laity
went into the business “the preliminary reverent treat-
ment of sacred subjects has often degenerated into
burlesqhes and coarse jests. The reading of one o
two of the plays of the time comes as a treniendous
relief to many a jaded critic and bored theatre-goei.
For instance/this" quotation from one of the stage
directions: “Enter Adam and Eve, naked But not
ashamed.” Then, again, the dialogue between Noah
and Mrs. Noah after hubby had forced hmbetter half
into the Ark and received a crack on the skull tor
his pains: “Noah’s Wife: ‘Take that for your noddle!
Noah: ‘Ah ! Ah 1 marry, that is hot! So much tor
“The Miracles.”
FLO’S CRCESUS.
[For The Bulletin.]
One time I rather fancied Flo.
She sang in comic opera then,
And danced extremely well to show
An ankle neat, to which the men
Attached their tender hearts in strings.
Then suddenly she spread her wings
And passed from common ken. ’Twas told
Flo’d married someone for his gold.
How rich he was none seemed to know
(His manners were exceeding fine) -
He’d talked of tea plantations, though,
And hinted at a di’mond mine.
Now stilled was Flora’s pretty song;
She mingled with the gilded throng
In older worlds, we thought, and spent
Her seasons on the Continent.
When wasting time the other night
I saw her playing in a show—
The tripey kind. The co. is quite
The cheapest gathering I know.
And Flo, who once was neat and fit,
Was what you might call “down to it.
“Alas!” I said, “she’s back again.
She failed to keep her Croesus then?”
“Not so,” replied the Barmaids’
“She’s kept him ever since, my boy!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
STANZAS CONCERNING THE LOST ART OF WAIL-
ING AND THE GENERAL DECADENCE OF THE
DRAMA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The cast is inferior to those of previous produc-
tions, and even the weird wailing that invariably
precedes the appearance of the dreaded face at the
window is at least five tunes less blood-curdling than
formerly. —Melbourne theatrical notice.
Gone are the thrills of yesterday ;
Emotions that we knew of old
Like last year’s loves have passed away ;
The mad old bellow leaves us cold.
No more Youth’s splendid fear we’ll know.
(What noisy lunatic just wailed!)
Howls in the joyous Long Ago
To freeze our young blood never failed.
Illusions vanish year by year,
Dark criminals becorne mere mimes,
The heroes whom we used to cheer
We loathe for histrionic crimes!
Though Juliets be still as fail,
And Romeos as brave and true,
Their bliss and woe no more we share
With Oapulet and Montague.
For smiles, thrills, tears we used to pay,
And fain would buy fttfnn back again;
But now, alas ! we know that they
But bubbles were on Youth’s champagne.
Though malefactors spill much gore,
And maidens suffer grief and shame,
Of all the things we. loved of-yore
Only the jokes remain the same!
For us the Drama’s lost its punch.
Time through a tattered backcloth leers i
The flies are on Life’s counter-lunch !
The froth is off our pristine beers!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


H
V
d
Zi
Mi
i
Yl
%
m
m
c
Jill
f.
r
\\
<C
»f
Coughs
flMb
n«r LEAD TA
consunPTioj
A bottle of HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure should be kept in EVERY HOUSE.
No house is complete without its Medicine Cupboard, and no Medicine Cupboard
is complete without a bottle of
HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure
THE most common ailment in existence is "Just a Cold”; but how many Bright Young Lives have been cut
off—how many Brilliant Careers prematurely ended through the simple neglect of "Just, a Cold.” If people
only realised that nearly all victims of Bronchitis, Pneumonia, Asthma, Pleurisy and Con-
sumption, owe their condition to the sad neglect of “Just a Cold,” there would be fewer premature
bereavements to grieve over and fewer heart-breaKing partings to be inevitably faced. Nearly all cases of
Bronchitis, Asthma, Pneumonia, Pleurisy and Consumption COMMENCED with "Just a Cold.” Only too often
a "Cough” is despised for its very insignificance, for the simple reason that, in its early stages, it causes little
inconvenience to the Patient—even though it may irritate and annoy Church Congregations, and Concert and
Theatre Audiences. If you have a Cold that has got right out of hand and become seriously acute with
ALARMING SYMPTOMS showing, you need to get on to the RIGHT TREATMENT without delay. It is in such
cases that HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure proves most valuable—although ONE DOSE of this wonderful
remedy will very often prove sufficient if taKen at the commencement of a Cold.
HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure is obtainable from any reputable Chemist or
Storekeeper, or by Post direct from
W. G. HEARNE & CO. LTD. - - GEELONG, Victoria.
TO-DA Y
if your baby is not thriving use the
‘AUenburys’ Foods. They develop
firm flesh and bone and promote robust health and vigour.
No digestive disturbance need be feared from the use of
these pure milk and malted foods.
MILK FOOD NO. 1.
From birth to 3 months.
MILK FOOD NO. 2.
From 3 to 6 months.
MALTED FOOD NO. 3.
From 6 months upwards.
’Menburgs Foods
Pamphlet on
Infant Feeding and
Management Free.
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., Jbondon, Eng.,
and MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
There is no need for Australians to
use
imported tooth pastes. The proprie-
tors of
EUPENTA
invite The Bulletin readers to test
without expense this popular
TOOTH PASTE
No dentifrice from abroad can compare
with the peppermint flavored (blue
box) Eudenta.
1/- per tube.
Write o
ROCKE, TOMPSITT 8 CO., Melbourne,
for a free sample, or, if Eudenta is un-
obtainable from your chemist or store,
send 1/3 in stamps for a large tube,
which will be sent post free.
EUDENTA Preserves anc/
Whitens the Teeth.
“THE LONE HAND” for Good Stories and Bright Articles. Price 6d.


£4
£3lO/
Lady’s Solid Gold, Improved
Huntings, Keyless WATCH,
3-plate, full jew-
elled Lever move-
ment, patent, ad-
i listed bn lance,
accurate, reliable,
£3/10/- Higher
grade, £4.
-iv-'--'v'-'V *•-- I
83K,
pi i
! ::
it . !
Latest
Style
Silk
Jiibbon
Guard,
9ct.
Gold
Mounts
and Shield,
Single,
22/6.
Double,
£2.
Australia’s Great Watch House!
AUNDERS
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER
Lady’s Black, Open Face
Keyless WATCH, full jewelled,
dust and waterproof eases, ac-
curate, reliable, 8/6.
Higher grades, 10/-, 12/6,
15/-, 20/-, 25/-
55/-
Gent.’s Patent, 10 years’ guaranteed, Gold
Cased, Hunting, Keyless WALTHAM
WATCH, full jewelled, compensation bal-
ance, dust and waterproof cases. Accur-
ate, reliable, 55/- 20 vears’ guaran-
teed, £4/4/- Solid Gold. £6/10/-,
£7/10/-, up to £3O.
60/-
The PRACTICAL WATCHMAKER.
The House famed all over Australasia for
good Timekeepers, Accurate and Reliable.
WRITE FOR FREE WATCH BOOKLET.
Ladv's Solid
WATCH, full
Higher
£5.
Gold, Patent Expanding WRISTLET
jewelled, reliable movement. Accurate.
Grade, £5/10/-, £6/10/-
ORDER
BY MAID
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
12)6
15/-
Gent’s Nickel, Open Face, Keyless
LEVER, full jewelled, patent, adjusted
balance, non-magnetic time spring, dust
and waterproof cases, 12/6, 15/-
Higher Grade, 20/-, 25/- Guaranteed.
20/-
251-
Lady’s Gold, Open Face Key-]
less WATCH, fancy dial, fu(L
jewelled, adjusted balance,
curate, reliable, £2. 1'
Higher grades, £2 /to/-
£3/10/-
25/-
Gent.’s Solid Nickel Silver, Hunting, Key-
less LEVER WATCH, high-graele move-
ment, engine- turned cases, norf-inagnetic
full jewelled, dust and waterproof cases,
25/- Higher Grade, 30/- Solid Sil-
ver, 30/-, 35/- Extra jewelled, 40/-,
50/-, 60/-, up to £&.
30 1-
807-817 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Lady’s Solid Silver Huntin'*
Keyless LEVER WATCH, }-
plate, patent, adjusted move-
ment, 25/-. 30/-. Higher
grades, 35/-, 40/-, 50/-,
LADY’S
WRISTLET
WATCH,
Oxidised
Case,
reliable
movement,
Morocco
or other
Leather
Straps,
10/-,
12/e,
15/-,
20/
m.
7%
10/-
Ladv’s Wristlet
WATCH.
SIEMENS
ELECTRICAL SUPPLIES
LARGE STOCKS CARRIED.
“WOTAN” HALFWATT LAMPS
“WOT AN” ONE WATT LAMPS.
Carbon Lamps
Radiator Lamps
Battery Lamps
Focus Lamps
Arc Camps
Radiators
Heaters
Toasters
Elecflric Irons
Kettles and Urns
Motors
Dynamos
Fans
Unitmeters
Amperemeters
Voltmeters
Eledlric Drills
Insulating Materials
Dry and Wet Batteries
Mining Telephones
Mining; Bells
Wires and Cables
Insulators
Conduits
Switches
Circuit Breakers
Zed Fuses
Stannos System of
Concentric Wire
Weatherproof Lanterns
Mill, Sbip and Mining
Fittings
Vacuum Cleaners
Mine Exploders
Trailing Cables
Ohm Meters
Testing Sets
Signalling Apparatus
Laboratory Instruments.
SIEMENS BROTHERS DYNAMO WORKS Ltd.,
59-01 William Street, MELBOURNE. 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.


Government Notices.
Accounts Due by the Government of the
Commonwealth.
a LL persons who have claims against the
/V- Government of the Commonwealth are
requested to apply to the Department which
incurred the liability on or before Monday,
29th June, so as to avoid inconvenience to
themselves and the Department.
No accounts will be paid on Tuesday, the
30th of June, after 1 p.m.
JOHN FORREST,
Treasurer of the Commonwealth.
GEO. T. ALLEN,
Secretary to the Treasury.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 30th May, 1914.
NAVAL FORCES OF THE COMMON-
WEALTH.
Vacancies for Naval Staff Clerks.
A PPLICATIONS are invited from per-
/\_ sons qualified for appointment as
Naval Staff Clerks, Class 111., under the
Naval Defence Acts, 1910-12. Applicants
must be not less than 10 nor more than 19
years of age on Ist July, 1914. Salary on
appointment £6O per annum, but a success-
ful applicant appointed to a State other than
that in which he resides may he granted a
living allowance to bring the total remunera-
tion up to £B4 per annum. Such allowance
to cease when, by subdivisional increments,
the actual salary has reached £B4 per annum.
Full particulars are published in Com-
monwealth Gazette of 30tli May, and may
also be obtained from the Naval Secretary,
Navy Office. Melbourne, and from the Dis-
trict Naval Officer, Brisbane; Edgecliffe,
Sydney ; Port Melbourne : Largs Bay, S.A.;
Fremantle, W.A.; and Hobart.
Applications must be lodged with the Naval
Secretary, Navy Office, Melbourne, not later
than 30th June, 1914.
S. A. PETHEBRIDGE,
Secretary.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 30th May, 1914.
NAVAL FORCES OF THE COMMON-
WEALTH.
Appointment of Temporary Chief
Engineer of Dredger.
APPLICATIONS are invited frbm per-
sons qualified for appointment as
Temporary Chief Engineer of Dredger, for
duty at Flinders Naval Base, Victoria. Rate
of pay (consolidated), £24 per month.
Qualifications: (1) Must be of Australian
birth or permanently domiciled in Australia,
(2) Must be under 50 years of age. (3)
Must hold lst-class Board of Trade or Marine
Board Certificate, (4) Must have had ex-
perience in Bucket Dredgers. The appoint-
ment will be terminable at a month’s notice
on either side. The successful applicant
will be required to pass a medical examina-
tion as to physical fitness before appoint-
ment, and must take up duty at his own
expense.
Applications, accompanied by Certificates
and Copies of Testimonials, are to be for-
warded to the Naval Secretary, Navy Office,
Melbourne, so as to reach him not later than
29th June, 1914.
S. A. PETHEBRIDGE,
Secretary.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 4th June, 1914.
MILITARY FORCES OF THE
COMMONWEALTH.
Examination for Appointment as Range
Clerk under the Defence Act,
1903-1912.
A COMPETITIVE examination for
c\- appointment as Range Clerk will be
held in the Capital City of each State, the
date of which will be notified to applicants.
Candidates must be between the ages of 19
and 35 years, and have had experience in
building construction, survey, including the
preparation of plans from field notes, or
general engineering work. Pay: Minimum
£2OO. Maximum £250 per annum.
Full particulars and forms of application
may be obtained from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Defence, Melbourne ; and from the
Military Commandant, District Head-
quarters, Brisbane, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart. Applications to attend the
examination must be forw T ardcd to reach the
Secretary, Department of Defence, Mel-
bourne, not later than 27th June, 1914.
T. TRUMBLF,
Acting Secretary.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, sth June, 1914.
Tenders for the Charter of a Steamship
for Use in the Royal Australian Navy.
TTIENDERS will be received, subject to the
JL Conditions of Tendering, until twelve
noon on WEDNESDAY, Ist JULY, 1911,
for the Supply on Hire of a Steamship to
act as a Depot Ship for the Submarines of
the Royal Australian Navy. The vessel is
to have a displacement of from 2000 to 3000
tons, and must be in all respects seaworthy,
in good condition, and a good seaboat. It
must have good accommodation for officers
and men, and be fitted with electric light.
Speed should be about 12 knots, and a suffi-
cient steaming radius is required. The ves-
sel will be chartered for one year in the first
place, with the option of renewal.
Tenders are to be in all cases on the
specified form, which can be obtained on
application to the Director of Navy Con-
tracts, Navy Office, Melbourne; cr to the
District Naval Officer, Naval Staff Office,
Sydney, Brisbane, Largs Bay (S.A.), Fre-
mantle or Hobart.
Tenders are to be endorsed “Tender for
Steamer” on top left-hand corner of envelope,
and addressed (if by post, prepaid) to the
Director of Navy Contracts, Navy Office,
Melbourne; or to the Director of Navy
Contracts, care Naval Staff Office, Sydney,
Brisbane, Largs Bay (S.A.), Freihantle or
Hobart.
The lowest or any tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted.
E. D. MILLEN,
Minister of State for Defence.
WRINKLES.
£.250 REWARD IF SHE FAILS.
Arrangements have now been made whereby 5000 Women Readers of the.
Sydney “Bulletin” are ottered this opportunity to be quickly and
permanently rid of their Wrinkles and Complexion
Troubles by sending for this new Book.
Cut Out and Use To-day the Free Coupon below. Distribution to be absolutely free until
Special Gift Edition of 5000 Copies is exhausted.
SPECIAL arrangements have just been
made to distribute free of charge a
special Gift Edition of 5000 books,
entitled “How I removed All my Wrinkles
in a Single Night.” In this book Mile.
Eleanor Lawton, whose fascinating beauty
has made her world-famous, explains how
she accidentally stumbled upon a totally
new scientific principle as applied to
natural treatment of the skin, and how she
evolved from this a method which cleared
her face as though by magic of all the
moutli-markings, forehead furrows, crow’s-
feet and other repulsive disfigurements left
by years of trouble and ill-health.
very young children. I next had a friend
who was sixty-four years of age try the
method I discovered, and in her case the
marvellous transformation was just as com-
plete as in my own. Two wrinkles in her
cheeks were fully two inches long and one-
eighth of an inch deep: but they quickly
disappeared and have never returned,
although that was seven months ago.”
Mile. Lawton is now both famous and
wealthy, but. says that if she can make her
discovery the-means of saving other women
readers of this paper half the suffering and
unhappiness she endured, she will con-
sider her time and efforts well spent.
She offers
£250 Re-
wa r d in
Gold, a s
stated
above, i f
an yone
can prove
that: —
lsj —She did
not clear
he r face
o f every
wrinkle
and blem-
ish in a
single
night.
2nd That
she fails
to furnish
conclusive
proof of
how this
new me-
thod has
since ac-
complished
e q u a 1 ly
•*
lii
These ‘photographs from life show more plainly than any words . the
marvellous results of following advice contained in this article.
regardless of
any financial
c o n s i dera-
tions. So,
if you wish
to avoid ap-
pearing older
than your
real age, or
i f you wish
t o appear
younger than
yo u really
are, what-
ever you r
age may be,
sh e firmly
believes her
book ex-
plains the
only way in
which you
can ever at-
tain your
desire. In a.
t h o u s a nd
subtle ways
beauty, e<r
lack of it,
equally marvellous results for others.
3rd —That her method does not embody
entirely new combination of features and
principles designed to remove wrinkles and
rejuvenate the complexion.
4th—lf any woman reader sending Coupon
below is not offered the opportunity to
prove on HER OWN face that wrinkles
are now as unnecessary as they are
hideous.
In an interview recently accorded the
writer of this exclusive article, Mile. Lawton
said: “On my thirtieth birthday my face
was seared and seamed with deep wrinkles
and furrows that made me appear at least
sixty-five. I shunned society and friends as
I would a plague. I become a recluse, a
veritable pariah, among women. I squan-
dered a small fortune buying and trying
plasters, massage creams, electrical appa-
ratus, caustic lotions, masks, and every
treatment, preparation, appliance or con-
trivance my reasonably abundant means
could procure for me. I was desperate and
nearly hopeless when at last I made the
discovery which without any of these worth-
less methods and processes, tightened my
loose and flaccid skin, filled indentations
beneath where wrinkles were, and restored
to me the smooth, clear, gently curving
facial contour, with a soft, unlined com-
plexion of texture we seldom see except in
may influence the entire course of one’s life.
All readers are urged, therefore, not to let
this opportunity pass, for the books are
expensive to prepare, and when the limited
free edition is exhausted your chance to
obtain one without cost may be gone for
ever, and Mile. Lawton has authorised this
free introductory distribution only with the
distinct understanding that she reserves the
right to charge two guineas for her method
as soon as the 5000 free books have been
distributed. Send no money, for while the
Gift Edition lasts the book is entirely free to
you, but, if convenient, you may enclose two
penny stamps fojj posting expenses. You
incur no obligation whatever in sending the
free coupon, and if you do not care to try the
method after seeing just what it consists of,
simply notify Mile. Lawton, and she will
send postage for return of book. If you do
use the method, she only asks that after
obtaining satisfactory results you kindly
recommend the book to your friends.
To obtain the book, merely forward within
the next eight weeks the • following free
coupon bearing your name and address.
Mark “Personal” on the envelope, and a copy
will be sent you immediately, post paid and
in plain sealed wrapping. Please do not
write if you are more than seventy years of
age, for success cannot be guaranteed after
that age. Only one copy can be sent to each
applicant.
— FREE PREMIUM COUPON.
FOR FREE BOOK EXPLAINING HOW TO REMOVE WRINKLES.
Good to Sydney Bulletin readers only.
Positively void after 13th August, 191J/.
Milo. Eleanor Lawton,
(Suite 554C,) 197 Regent Street, London, W., Eng.
You may send me immediately, post paid in plain wrapping,
and free of cost or obligation, a regular copy of the free book to
which this coupon entitles me. My postage is to be returned in
full if special Gift Edition is exhausted when this coupon is
received.
Name
Address
Sydney Bulletin Free Coupon (No. 554 C.).
HOW I REMOVED
ALL MY WRINKLES
IN A SINGLE NIGHT
This is the booh
you receive free for
this Coupon.
iffIESLHJi
IIJMa
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from Us. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Taiiff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
Scientific Instruments
For Every Trade, Industry and Profession
Hydrometers, for testing every liquid.
0
We make and repair them, and will
send you a catalogue, upon request,
of the most up-to-date Instruments for
Brewers, Wine & Spirit Merchants,
Refrigerators, Engineers, Surveyors,
Tanners, Sugar Boilers, Meat & Ice
Works, Butchers, Bakers, Vignerons,
Agriculturists Graziers, Dairy
Farmers, Makers of Aerated Water,
Cordials, Vinegars, Oils, Varnish, Soap
and Candles. Also for Schools,. Col-
leges, the Medical Profession, and the
Household. Thermometers, Barome-
ters, Hydrometers, Rain, Gas, Water,
Vacuum and Pressure Gauges made,
repaired and readjusted. Lubricator
and Gauge Glasses, all sizes. Dairy
Factory Glassware and Testing Appar-
atus a Specialty.
WILSON, NAFIS & CO. Ltd., Wharf St., Brisbane, Q.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard=
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC
68£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
THE WORLD’S BEST
Calculating Machine,
The “Triumphator”
Novel and easier way of setting the figures,
which remain visible in special show-holes
above the setting levers.
Carrying over tens device in MULTIPLIER
and QUOTIENT, as well as in PRODUCT
show-holes.
Registers Multiplier and Quotient correctly
in large white figures.
Illustrated descriptive Catalogue on applica-
tion to the Agents:—
A. P. GREENFIELD 8 CO.‘LTD.,
189 George Street, Brisbane.
fgh
WHY NOT
buy Abbey Shoes, the footwear
that gives the greatest satisfaction?
Apart from the extra comfort,
style, etc., which Abbey Shoes give,
they are also cheaper in the end.
The boot illustrated is a smart,
Made-to-order style. All Patent
Derby Bal., Leather Lined, 32/6.
Same style in Highest-grade Dark
Tan Willow Calf, 32/6.
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for our Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
complete WRITING OUTFIT
Inkstand, Pen and Pencil Case, Pencil and
for making Three Bottles of Fine Ink, and a Valuable Lotlof
Very Remarkable Pens, including The BTaham Fountain tfVn
The Shading Double-Stroke Pei:, The Top-
Feed Reservoir Pen, The Colorado Inde-
structible Pen and a Dozen others; Also a
Fountainette Ivoroid Penholder, that writes
250 words with one dip. The Lot for onlv
Three Shillings, including carriage.
The Pens alone are worth all the money.
The Union Co M 299 Elizabeth Street. Meftxnirne.
fgh
THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE—
THE FAMOUS
Sche bier Carburetter
The best Carburetter for ALL PETROL ENGINES
—either Land or Marine, Stationary or Moving.
The Schebler makes your engine develop
greater horse-power for a less consumption
lof fuel.
The Schebler holds many world’s records.
Booklet and all information free.
Correspondence invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for Australia.


DOES* YQUR CHILD SUFFER FROM
WORMS?
Stomach and intestinal worms are the
cause of nine-tenths of the crying, fretful-
ness and irritability of children. The mere
mention of worms makes one feel uncom-
fortable, and their presence in the system
must assuredly cause such torture and agony
that there is little wonder at the irritable
disposition which is so often developed, not
only in children, but frequently in adults.'
Worms require a specific medicine, and there
is no better remedy than Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets, as used by Mrs. Will-
mott, of Cooma, N.S.W., who states: —
“Hearing about the wonderful success of
your worm pellets, I decided to give them a
trial. I gave my three children —Roy,
Phyllis and Horace —a dose each, as they
had all the symptoms of worms. The pellets
were taken at 6 o’clock in the morning, and
at 10 o’clock Roy had passed a stomach
worm about twelve inches in length, and the
othpr children passed quite a number of
thread worms. Since taking the pellets the
children seem greatly relieved and appear to
be better in health. I shall always recom-
mend them to my friends, and you may use
this testimonial for publication in any way
you please.”
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal preparation
for the eradication of worms in children and
adults. For sale by all chemists and store-
keepers, price 2s. 9d. per packet, or will be
sent post paid at the same price by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Church Hill, Sydney.*
KOLDOS
will curs that
CATARRH.
Post Free to any address,
THE KOLDOS AGENCY,
2/6
18 Queensland Offices, Bridge Street, Sydney
THF.i;
1 it t
logue.
Sydney
810-SHOWMEN!
lE'S'only one BEST Biograph. AYe can prove
:o Be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
Sole agents: Jerdan's, Ltd., 393 George Street,
HORSE-SHOE
SALMON
is even better than fresh fish
BECAUSE
It is Coolied in Sealed Tins —there-
fore none of the goodness can escape.
DELICIOUSLY FRESH.
POLITICAL
POINTS
STRANGE COMPANY.
Nothing but Government action can deal with the
immense capital of the Meat Trust. If the Queens-
land Government bought or built a large meatworks
and imposed a small tax on cattle and sheep to be
an annual subsidy to their works, the Meat Trust
would be checked.
—Sydney TELEGRAPH (of all papers!).
THE LAMBKIN: “My! But I hole my mon-
strous ally is as fierce as I've been taught
to believe!”
If the Commonwealth’s new “produce by
post” system should be a success in Victoria,
it won’t be the fault of the State’s railway
department. The other day it was asked to
make a few preparations for the new scheme,
by allowing statioumasters to i roister the
names of traders, etc., and it refused. “The
S.M.’s were not to be allowed to act as
trade agents, and, anyhow, it would be time
enough to make preparations xvken it was
seen how the thing would work.” For all
the world like a State Frights Liberal poli-
tician, the only difference being that the
latter, when the scheme had proved success-
ful, would presently claim credit for its in-
auguration !
A good prize or two are offered to the
winner in the coming Federal raffle. A Cook
victory will mean, for instance, that Cook
and Millen will represent, or misrepresent,
Australia at the Imperial Defence Confer-
ence ; while if Labor wins Pearce and
Fisher are the most likely delegates. If
history is consistent it will probably be the
Labor men who will go. Pearce would
have gone to the 1909 Defence Conference
if the Fusion hadn’t upset matters; and
Deakin and Cook in 1911 if the elections had
not upset the Fusion. One of these excur-
sions, in the light of past experience, seems
to be about the most dangerous thing any
Federal Minister can have in prospect.
On the granting of the double dissolution,
Willie Watt, of Victoria, left his own dung-
hill of State politics to give his brother-
Liberal on the Federal heap a hand. The
Senate, said Willie, ought to be got rid of,
being “an engine of tyranny, violently par-
tisan.” No doubt, no doubt _; but what has
Willie done to get rid of his own “engine
of tyranny”—the equally violent partisan
House of Fat Landlords? Watt’s anger
towards one and his complaisance in regard
to the other suggests that it isn’t the
Senate’s partisanship he objects to. What’s
wrong is merely that the Senate isn’t the
right sort of partisan.
Those Liberals who coldly count heads are
not so overjoyed at having accomplished a
double dissolution. At present 29 of the
sitting Senators are Labor and only seven
Liberal. To get a majority of oiie in the
States Chamber, Liberalism has to win its
own seven back and wrest 12 seats from
Labor, and the chances seem to be all against
that. Even when the Liberals gained num-
bers in the House of Reps, and managed to'
defeat the Referenda in the interests of
their friends the Trusts, they failed to hold
their own in the Senate. They pin their
hopes to N.S.W. and Vic. In the Ma State
there are three Labor and three Liberal
Senators, in Victoria five Laborites and one
Liberal. In all South Aus., Westralia and
Queensland there is not one Liberal Sena-
tor, and even Tasmania has three Laborites
and three Liberals. If they made a clean
sweep of N.S.W., Victoria and Tasmania
they would not have a majority. A more
hopeless-looking task than the capture of
the Senate nest by the Liberal Cookoos
would be hnrd to imagine.
“Kola” : I have a fierce griev-
ance against the State Laborites
of Victoria. It is like drawing
an elephant’s tusks to get one
of the party to attend a meeting
in a country district. They
seem to be padlocked to Mel-
bourne, and some of them never
leave that bloated capital. I
saw recently that several of
them were speaking at Port
Melbourne, where Matthews’s
majority was 13,000 or there-
abouts. Why such foolishness?
The N.S.W. Labor party
showed them a good example
recently. Holman swept up and
down the country districts like
a devouring pestilence. Old
Prendergast hardly knew on
which line towns like Colac and
Camperdown were. Elmslie
doesn’t seem to be any better.
We tried to get him up to
Terang recently, but couldn’t
shift him. Elmslie says he ex-
pects to win nine seats in the
country at the coming elec-
tions ; but he won’t unless he
threatens to hang his best
speakers if he finds them loafing about Mel-
bourne for a month before election day.
The actual strength of a State consists
in the aggregate striking power of its
armies and its fleets, which should in war
time be as interdependent as the forefinger
and thumb of a human hand.— Gen. lan
Hamilton.
Since the Commonwealth electoral rolls
were used 12 months ago hundreds of thou-
sands of names have been written in, and
a million or so alterations made. It is prac-
tically impossible to use these rolls as they
are, and to print new ones and get them
where they are wanted will take fully three
months. Even then they won’t be quite
in order, for the police canvass now being
carried out won’t be completed for another
four months. Immediately after last elec-
tions the Liberals said the rolls were in a
lamentable state; but such dreadful mud-
dlers have they been that, on px-esent pros-
pects, the country will have to go to vote
on rolls which age has made infinitely worse.
No one elector can remember all the
solemn pledges that the Holman Govern-
ment has broken ; but the great port-opening
fraud was recalled^ last week, when Hol-
man was alleged to be parleying with the
Commonwealth Government on the question
of re-establishing the more or less aboriginal
job of whaling in Jervis Bay. It was said
that, if permission to go blubber-hunting
were given, there would be a total absence
of the dead-whale smell, and, anyhow, the
Naval College boys “wei*e many miles dis-
tant by air-line from the site of the pro-
posed factory.” That last remark seemed
to imply a doubt as to the smell-killing
capacity of the factory; also it seemed as
if someone i-egarded the Naval College stu-
dents as the perpetual sole inhabitants of
Jervis Bay. Now, Jervis Bay without its
whale studio has an outside chance of get-
ting its rightful inheritance from some hon-
est Government of the future; but with its
blubber salon it isn’t likely to get anything
but dead whales. And permanent prosperity
cannot be built on a foundation of dead
whales; Portland, the dead port of Vic-
toria, boiled down many whales in the days
of the Ilentys.
G. H. Wise’s long stern chase for the
Federal seat of Gippsland made him M.11.R.
for a Parliament, and then, though his
practically-Labor voting record in the Reps,
gave him immunity from Labor opposition,
he was defeated by Bennett, who
hasn’t done any harm and is unable to do
any good. Wise is a candidate as usual, but
this time immunity for anybody is unlikely,
so Wise —the unluckiest as he is the plucki-
est of candidates —will probably run Ben-
nett hard for second place.
THE BLESSINGS OF CEN-
TRALISATION.
COMMANDING O FFICER: “Private Australia,
have you loaded your gun?”
AUSTRALIA: "Yes, sir.”
C.O.: "And taken your aim? ”
AUSTRALIA: “ Yes, sir.”
C.O: “ Then keep quite steady while I write
to Melbourne to see if you can let it off.”
Tiie Bulletin reads with pleasure that
Bruce Smith has inherited £40,000 from a
deceased relative. As Bruce Smith is leader
of the party which thinks that Australia can
best be defended in the North Sea and the
English Channel, The Bulletin now ex-
pects that he will put the money in a bank
on condition that the place has no bars and
holts, and that it shifts its watchman from
Sydney to Scotland Yard.
Apparently the executive of the Women’s
National League—a dozen of Melbourne’s
naicest ladies —is running the Cook party
as regards Victoria’s share in the elec-
tions. And thus far it has made a
nice mess of things. It bungled the
Senate pre-election, and now it has
tipped Bendigo into the soup. Maldon
Robb, gent, one and ex-parson, who
was defeated by Anstey for Bourke a year
ago, nominated for Bendigo with two local
men. The latter withdrew in his favor, and
of course the local Liberal branches selected
him. But the Naicest Ladies’ executive
declined to endorse the selection, and as
Bendigo Liberals refuse to pick another
candidate, Robb promises to follow Mauger’s
example and bog in. The cheerfullest looker-
on at the pretty little play is I.aborite J. A.
Arthur, M.P.
“Mere Groundling’s” appreciation:—
One of the compensations of each recurrent general
election in N. S. Wales is the recrudescence of It.
Clive Tecce. He is a youthful member of the junior
Bar, and a pitiless assailant of W. M. Hughes. It
is his hobby to expose Hughes in the S. M. Herald
for the futile ignoramus he notoriously is. When
Tecce has done with Hughes the latter is understood
to feel like an Insect. Hughes has several times
attempted to get out of public life altogether on
account of Teece’s merciless rebukes, but his col-
leagues and family have lassoed him and dragged
him back to face further torture. In the course of
one week alone, during last elections, It. Cliye
'i ecce tore the ex-Attorney General to pieces four
several times, and jumped upon the remains. Teece
has many of the qualities of greatness. In the
matter of self complacence he suggests the Kaiser
at his best. His English is the purest Johnsonese.
Like the late W. E. Gladstone, he can say less in
a column of small print than other men can say in
10 lines of capitals. He is more fluent than Marie
Corelli, less vulgarly obvious than Henry James. I
may be permitted, perhaps, to quote a few of his
more glittering periods: “Distinctly amusing”
(sardonic) ; “like Mesopotamia, a blessed word”
(the literary touch), “irresponsible vaporings of an
unthinking demagogue” (severe) ; “ ‘These be your
gods, O Israel’ ” (sardonic) ; “mens sana in corpore
sano” (classical allusion) ; “Vive la Patrie” (ah!
a French scholar); “Socialism.... a Menace alike to
the Sanctity of the Home, the Stability of Society,
the Security of Religion, and the Comity of
Nations.” R. Clive Teece is a Master of the per-
fectly obvious, a King of the turgid, a Sultan of
the unconsciously humorous, and an Emperor of the
banal. The world was robbed of a great school-
magazine leader-writer when he decided to become a
political expert.
Joe Cook’s haste to get to the country,
so as to steal a march on his opponents,
badly upset the plans of his friend Premier
Watt. The latter proposed to have his own
election about the end of August; but with
the larger show on, no one would take any
interest in his little one. So he must
either open and close his session quickly,
with nothing done, or carry on for a couple
of months longer than he intended —which
will give Labor a chance to get round his
supporters’ constituencies.
There is no precedent for moving
an amendment in the Senate on
the motion for an Address-in-
Reply, or, indeed, for proposing
there any kind of motion of cen-
sure on the Ministry, says the
Argus (5/6/T4). It. further com-
mented adversely on the fact that
it was Rae, and not the Leader of
the Opposition, who lately moved
the censure amendment. As a
matter of fact, on May 21, 1901,
an ordinary member of the Oppo-
sition moved the following amend-
ment to the Address-in-Reply : “But
while fully concurring in the pro-
posal for the gradual reduction and
ultimate relinquishment of the •
kanaka labor at present witbin the
Commonwealth, are of opinion that:
the further importation of such
labor should be at once pro-
hibited.” That this was accepted
by the Ministry as a no-confidence-
amendment is shown by the fact
that O’Connor, the then Vice-
President of the Executive, spoke-
of it as “a direct challenge of the-
policy of the Government.” The
real humor of the situation lies in
the fact that the Senator who-
established this shocking precedent
was Millen, the very man who has
now had the business “taken out of
his hands” as Cook’s chief repre-
sentative in the Senate.
A staunch Liberal named 11. C. M. Gar-
ling. writing to the S. M. Herald about the-
coining elections, appeals for voluntary or-
ganisers and canvassers, saying, “Paid Organ-
iser is a term commonly used as a term of
reproach.” Now. what sort of paid organ-
isers have the Cookoos been using to get
them this renutation?
F. M. B. Fisher, Minister of Marine and
Customs in the Massey Cabinet (M.L.), is
regarded as likely to lose his seat (Welling-
ton Central) at next election, in December.
Robert Fletcher, chairma® of Wellington
Harbor Board, a bard-bead’edi Scotchman,
who ran Fisher to within half a dozen votes
at the first ballot last election, is again going
for the bacon ; and as the bacon is situated
in a nest of wharflumpers, whose apprecia-
tion Fletcher won during the recent water-
side strike, the latter is likely to win the
trophy next time.
It will be interesting to watch the Vic-
torian Liberal leagues, especially the Naicest
Women, toy with the Balaclava seat, to be
vacated by Agar Wynne. So far there are
three candidates for the party vote, and of
these Hewison has first and strongest claim.
But Hewison is anathema to the ladies, be-
cause four years ago he refused to trade on
the “marriage tie” libel applied to his Labor
opponents, and thereby lost the party nom-
ination. The trouble is that if Hewison
goes to the poll, whether as selected Liberal
or otherwise, only a Labor man could beat
him. So the ladies don’t know where they
are.
THE LIBERAL MESSAGE TO
THE NORTH.
Jack Seaddan, Westralia’s Labor Premiei*,
went into power bellowing against monopo-
lists. Up in the nor’west coast of the
State, at Balia Balia, there is a jetty, the
only outlet for a large pastoral and mining
district. Close to Balia Balia operates the
Whim Well Copper Co., which is also a trad-
ing co., owning stores, pubs, etc., and charg-
ing what it pleases. Seaddan leased the
jetty to this co., so that anyone who wants
to start an opposition business can get the
assistance of his bis: rival. It was such a
happy idea on Scaddan’s part; but, somehow,
peonle are never satisfied.
OPENING THE DOOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The rising generation is knocking at the door.”
• -— lbsen.
[•’you know that ever since the first creation,
Since first the protoplasmos split in two,
There's always been a rising generation,
A somebody more up to date than you?
A daughter more in fashion than her mother,
A nephew voting uncle old and slow,
A once-rebuked and patronised young brother
Who ventures where you never dared to go?
“The younger generation now is knocking”-
Well, name the year in which it didn’t kick!
That windy dope is truly worse than shocking;
It lies upon the stomach, makes you sick !
Youth wants to go ahead, and won’t dissemble;
Whether you give it flattery or a frown
’Twill knock upon the gate near which you tremble,
And, which is more, will kick the damthing down !
Temporis acti —what’s the word ? — laudator,
Long-whiskered party grubbing in the past !
It’s odds the better methods come the later,
And ten to one the very best comes last.
The past is an oppression, and a shackle;
A drag, an' eighteen stone Johnforrest load ;
The ghost that wails when boyhood starts to tackle
Its little job along an unmade road.
So go ahead, gay youth ; destroy and shatter,
And build again exactly as you please!
You’ll make mistakes; but if you do, what matter?
The Ancient Coves would just sit still and freeze.
No door is shut while you’ve a boot to break it;
No task too tough until your blood grows thin ;
The Future waits behind, for you to make it —
So, smash the blooming panels, and butt in!
N.S.W.
ADAM McCAY.


A PIANO FROM PALING’S IS AN ASSET
r r<
We sell on Easy Time Payments. ,
Catalogues and Price Lists are free.
Write for them to=day.
IN Buying a Piano from Paling’s you secure to yourself aiul
your family the best possible piano investment for the money
expended. You will own an instrument of the highest musical
qualities —one that in the future years will prove to be an asset and one
that can always be realised upon should the occasion arise.
A Piano from Paling’s is always reliable. PLACE YOUR
CONFIDENCE IY PALTYG’S. We have now had 61 years’
continuous Piano experience.
Come to our spacious Show Rooms and see our magnificent display
of the world’s most highly-reputed pianos. We are showing some
exquisite models of
Ronisch, Barnes
and Vidtor Pianos
They are the best pianos in their various grades that money can buy.
Remember— Piano economy doesn’t lie so much in simply paying the
smallest price, or as it does in paying a reasonable price and getting
unquestionable value for your money. We are in the position !o
economise in your piano purchase, having the largest and most carefully
selected Stocks of Pianos in Australia.
Every instrument we sell is thoroughly reliable, and it leaves our
Warehouse covered by our own FULL GUARANTEE.
PALING’S,
338 Georg'e St
SYDNEY
And at Newcastle, Lismore, Brisbane, Toowoomba.
THE LEVIATHAN
SQUARE DEAL
©rGa.
It's here again,
this most sensational of Mel-
bourne Sale times, with all
its wonderful, big, genuine,
true-to-name bargains.
2 Great
Tailoring
Specials
*' 67/6
W V Your pick
from those choice and high-
grade fabrics usually used in
our 77/6 ■HBSBH Suits to
Order. Grand Fabrics! Grand
Tailoring ! Grand Value !
A, BO K
I You are
offered the superb materials
and ultra-fine tailoring of
90/- HBHHHi Suits
to Order.
Write to-day for Patterns and
Self - Measurement Forms.
Post Free on Request.
THE LEVIATHAN
Corner Swanston and Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
THIS IS THE ENSIGN CAMERA
THAT CAN BE USED FOR ROLL FILMS AS WELL AS PLATES.
.... Some Photographers stand for Plates, others for
Films. The individual advantages of both are available
to the possessor of a “REGULAR ENSIGN” Camera.
With this model one may insert a spool of film for six
or twelve pictures, or, when one exposure only is required,
it simnly means removing the back panel and the inser-
tion of a dark slide. The reversible view-finder, with
spirit-level attached; the rigidity of the stirrup front; the
beautifully constructed shutter and lens, are some of the
most striking features of the “REGULAR ENSIGN.”
PRICES :
4\ x 3L 5i x 3i.
“REGULAR ENSIGN,” Model A.Y., P’c’d. size.
fitted with Symmetrical Lens. . £3/5/- £4/7/0
“REGULAR ENSIGN,” Model A.K.,
fitted with Ensign Anastigmat
Lens £4/2/0 £5/2/0
“REGULAR ENSIGN,” Model S.D.,
fitted with Aldis Anastigmat
Lens £5 £O/5/-
Send for 1914 Catalogue, 400 /jages illustrated.
SYDNEY:
386 George Street.
MELBOURNE:
266 Collins Street.
BRISBANE:
93-95 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE:
Rundle Street.
Also at AUCKLAND, N.Z., and WELLINGTON, N.Z.


Sir lan Hamilton has faith in Australia’s
prowess in the nohle (military) art of self-
defence. Well, what could be better than
high intelligence and physical capacity keyed
to their topmost by King George IV. top-
notch whisky?*
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCHS, LIfUTED, Redfern, Sydney.
The New “Scott’s”
Hotel
is now almost completed, and when
opened early in July will be '
The Finest Hoteljrp
Australia.
The position is the most central' and
convenient in Melbourne, and the
accommodation and cuisine perfect.
Private attendance, ’phones and hot
and cold water service in every room.
ColliQS Street,
MELBOURNE.
OXO-
-
ca
hend:
£59 upwards.
Hendee Manufacturing Co.
109 Russell Street, Melbourne, VIG.
Send for Catalog' O,
SPORTING
NOTIONS
N.S.W. Bowling Association lately struck
the praiseworthy notion of giving the youngsters a
show, and the scrimmage was waged on the Sydney
City green. Twenty-four colts pranced to the start-
ing-point, and Mr.'Mortley’s lads romped over Mr.
Willings’ babies by 26 to 12. The infants ages
ranged from 75 to 86, and totted up 1888 in the
aggregate. #
William Woodburn, at one time widely
known on the Australian turf, died at Randwick re-
cently. He was 82, and had for some years been
caretaker at the A.J.C. racecourse. #
“The Pariah” : V.R.C. starter J. O, Inglis
recently found dying a little way out of Ballan
(Vic.), as the result of a buggy accident, was one of
those men who get the respect of all sections of the
community without troubling to look for it. Bal-
lan is an old-style Presbyterian township, but even
the staunchest elder always spoke well of “J. 0.”
He owned two horses of note —Malua, who won him
a pot of money, and Don Juan, whom he sold to Joe
Thompson for £550 three months before the horse
won the Melbourne Cup. At the conclusion of the
meeting Thompson told Inglis that he was going to
make it £2OOO. In the palmy days when Ingliston
was a wealthy station John O. rode over to an
aggressively English neighbor’s to inquire after some
imported rams that had-developed a habit of chewing
down fences and getting in with the small man’s
sheep, ‘'ls [say] Jim Ilooder in?” he asked of that
gentleman’s sister. She, with the pride that comes of
the mortgaged title to 300 acres, replied, “Master
James, if you please.” “I beg your pardon,” said
J.O. “Please be so good as to tell "Master James
that Jack Inglis wants to see him.”
It was bound to come. An owner of acres
in France has, according to the cables, taken an
action for trespass against an aviator who flew over
his ground, claiming, apparently, that he had a
proprietor’s right to the atmosphere above his land
just as far as it extended. The French Court decided
that an owner’s rights did not extend further than
the tops of his trees or buildings; but the matter
may have to be decided in other countries yet.
» * * *
On June 11 the Dunlop Rubber Co. re-
ceived a telegram from E. F. Reichenbaeh that he
had arrived at Darwin at seven minutes past noon.
So he had run through from Adelaide in 28 days
seven minutes, and beaten all previous records, includ-
ing Arthur Macdonald’s wonderful ride, which had
defied all-comers for 16 years. Murif, the pioneer,
who went out to write a book, took 74 days to cover
the same route; Mather and Coleman 63 days; Mac-
donald 28 days 154 hours ; and Reichenbaeh 28 days
seven minutes. Murray Aunger, in his motor-car,
took 52 days to cover the same route. Reichenbach’s
carefuly-adjusted cvclometer showed the distance to
be 1969 miles. When he left Alice Springs he was
39 hours behind Macdofrald’s time. When he rode in
to Barrow’s Creek he was level with- the record.
At Daly Waters, 1633 miles from Adelaide, he
stripned his machine, which weighed some 901 b., and
travelled light, and at Pine Creek he was 20 hours
ahead of the record. But he lost- five hours of this
climbing the hills that lie between the creek and
the capital. His machine was a Turner, shod with
Dunlop tyres, and he made such good progress on it
that he was able to put in 35 hours of daylight and
take over 200 photographs. He reports his general
health as being splendid. Also, he tells how the
place is far from being the arid and lonely desolation
imagined. His chief trouble was hospitality. All
along the track linesmen and others were on the
look-out for him, and he was seldom two days with-
out seeing a white Australian. Only one real Myall
native was t§eh, and he went off like an arrow at
the sight of the weird and horrible new style of
kangaroo, and didn’t stop running till he was out of
sight.
* * * *
A new record-breaker transpired in Sydney
this week, when a mason fell off the top of a new
skyscraper in course of construction in Bridge-street.
He hurtled through 118 ft. of empty atmosphere, and
then crashed into a vast congestion of telephone
wires, frdtn which he descended to the street by slid-
ing down the supporting pole. It was the most
miraculous thing seen in Sydney for a long time;
for, barring the loss of a whisker or two and a slight
shock, he was apparently no worse. When last seen
he was sitting inside the building ascertaining if a
quiet smoke had a soothing effect on the nerves. He
is hereby declared the champion high land-diver of
Australasia.
Last week A. F. Wilding gathered the
world’s hard-court. championship at gay Paree; then
at Beckenham (Eng.), with Norman Brookes, he
picked up the Doubles Championship. As the Aus-
tralasians wiped out Gore and Roper Barrett (Eng.)
in the final of the latter match by six-two and six-
one, the victory was something to sing about.
* * * *
The conclusion of the first round of Syd-
ney baseball leaves Leichhardt and Waverley in the
front with six wins each. Petersham presses close
with five, and the rest make a hopeless tail. Waver -
ley-Petersham was the hilarious meeting on Saturday,
when Waverley by the aid of seven runs-in the last
innings,, overthrew Cohen’s suburb by 15 to five.
Paddington and Lane Cove provided the closest
tussle, Paddington struggling out with 11 runs to
the Riverites nine. Leichhardt demolished Mosman-
North Sydney by 14 to three, and Burwood did the
same for Universitv hy 11 to six. The chief draw-
back with baseball at present ds that the matches
start too late, and the sides that play last get lost in
semi-darkness.
».* * *
Football forih in Adelaide leaves Port
Adelaide all alone at the top of the list. West
Adelaide, their chief opponents of late years, are
unusually weak, and Norwood, the premiers of many
past seasons, have been quite'*out of it lately; this
time they began with a flash of their old form, and
then slumped again. In fact, the form all round —
Ports always excented—is in-and-out, with most
honors, so far, for North Adelaide (second last year)
and Sturt. The University club is still shut out by
the League, on the ground that to admit it would
damage the electorate district system. In cricket and
lacrosse it is admitted; and nobody has complained.
The English XIII being in Queensland,
the Rugby League competitions resumed in Sydney
on Saturday in perfect weather —perhaps a little on
the warm side for strenuous football. South Sydney
went up against North Shore at Sydney Cricket
Ground, and great was the fall of North Sydney.
The Northern back machine was stiff in the joints.
It passed slowly, and failed to put speed into runs.
Also, it failed with its long-range kicks. It was out-
classed from the first, and at half-time was already
well on the way to the woods with only two points
to the Southern team’s eight. The second half saw
the rot continue, and there were occasions when the
team was also stricken with temporary paralysis.
South did not turn these golden opportunities to full
account, and won by only 19 points to six. It should
have been 29. Balmain, which has been raising
some dust of late against the very best, came to
sudden smash when it collided with Western Suburbs,
.and was beaten by five to four. The prophets had
expected that West would be absquatulated. Eastern
Suburbs, champion team, blotted out Annandale’s
hopes with 15 to five. Newtown got Glebe down and
kicked hard till it had scored 17 to Glebe’s nine.
This puts South Sydney at the top with 10 competi-
tion points ; Eastern Suburbs and Newtown struggle
cheek-by-jowl in the second row with eight each;
Glebe and North Sydney are level with six; Balmain
has five; Western Suburbs four; and Annandale one.
The attendances, though not of international thick-
ness, were encouraging, and aggregated about 30,000.
* * * *
At Brisbane the English had a fairly
easy affray with Queensland. The weather was splen-
did, and about 14,000, a big crowd for Brisbane,
whooped at a fast and cheerful game. In the first
half Queensland was hopelessly outclassed ; the Eng-
lish piled up 13 points, and kept Bananaland from
scoring one. In the second bout the English fell off
a lot; the Queensland crowd, on the other hand,
livened up, and managed to pile on 10 points while
the visitors added five. Just before the whistle blew
M'Cabe made a very determined effort, and had
almost reached the line when the English captain
managed to grass him and block the score. Had
M'Cabe been properly backed up the game would, in
all probability, have ended in a draw.
MEHFGAN AND LEWIS.
The racehorse v. the somewhat slower animal:
and a portrait of Kid Lewie's death-mask grin.
The 99th Union Rugby meeting between
N. S. Wales and Queensland XV’s took place at Syd-
ney Sports Ground on Saturday, in the presence of
about 6000 of the faithful. It was a great game.
Queensland team was better than usual, with a re-
markably strong forward pack. It beat the N.S.W.
forwards at every turn ; had the Queensland back divi-
sion been of the same calibre, history would have
spun a different yarn. But just as the Queensland
forwards overshadowed the home pack, so the home
back excelled that of the visitors. The half-backs
were absolutely brilliant and of the aggressive type
that makes opportunities to score out of seeming re-
verses. Although their forward division was quite
overwhelmed they managed to outwit their prancing
opponents and feed their three-quarter and wing men
in a style that was exquisite. When the Queensland
backs did get going they went through the N.S.W.
forwards like fire through stubble. It was the inside
backs that hauled them down with low; deadly tac-
kling and broke up some splendid passing charges.
But for the most part, the Queensland captain relied
upon his pack, and the backs followed it up with
high punting. The N.S.W. captain (he was playing
half) ordered his men to feed the machine all the
time. Several times after Queensland had swept
through the forwards with splendid dribbling rushes
the halves picked the leather right off their toes and
punt|d for the touch-line. It was daring and very
bonny -play, indeed.
N.S.W. scored first, but. the shot at goal missed.
After this reverse Queensland made desperate efforts,
and at last N. S. Whies was hurled right back on to
its line. Then the Northern captain massed his men,
and, after a wild scramble, broke through. Pushing
the local team right back, he scored a most strenu-
ous try. As it was converted, Queensland led by
five to three. N.S.W. started to use the line, and
suddenly let go a magnificent four-man pass which
gave the Ma State team eight to five. Again the
Queensland forwards hurled the Walers towards their
own line, and they 'massed to resist another bursting
movement. But this time the Queensland backs
passed and scored. The Queensland kicker failed to
add the points, and the game stood eight all. At
half-time the home team was again ahead with 11
to eight; and it was anybody’s game. In the second
half the Walers used the line, and feeding the backs
from the lines-out managed to more than counter-
balance the visitors’ supremacy in the scrums. Then
the flower of the Queensland team had to receive the
attention of the ambulance men, and the fortunes of
the North commenced to wane very rapidly. N.S.W.
scored three times in succession, and it was not till
close on time, with the score standing at 20 to eight,
that the only Bananaland score of the second half was
made. Again the kick failed, so Queensland was beaten
by 20 to 11. The long-range kicking was the weakest
feature of the Queensland game. Had that been
equal to the N.S.W. hoof artillery, the game would
probably have ended differently. This was the third
N.S.W. victory this season. Luck has left Queens-
land.
* * * *
The Victorian Soccer team again ham-
mered Mother in the presence of about 3000 enthusi-
asts. N. S. Wales had not the sustained dash of the
Victorians, and in the long run mustered only two
goals to the visitors’ three. The southern team was
better disciplined, and coul(j ajsq kick with greater
accuracy—a thing which, fqr much righteous-
ness in all football, but in Soccer.
In the Australian. Rules division Sydney
and Paddington crb&ted 'much excitement at Hamp-
den Park with a fast but well-ordered tussle, which
ended in a draw. 'At the end of the first quarter Pad-
dington was eight pbints to the bad. At half-time
Sydney had 41 to 1 20°' Time was running out, and
Paddington was still, behind. Three points would
make a draw, a goal a Victory. Paddington played
with cold desperation, ind 1 . three points came; but,
the goal they never saw, 'knd the game end&d with
70 all. It was the fight of'.the day. South Sydney
caught North napping, and 1 Scored 121 points to 33,
but, bad as it was, it was mild , compared with the
awful doing Newtown inflicted on East Sydney, when
the scores were 183 to 25,. Thjit should.jstand as the.
record for some time.
*** * #
Rugby League Football is as. good,- as- a ;i
gold mine these prosperous days. The. two
against the Northern Union XI'II yielded £5653;.
and three “Tests” and other important fixtures, are-
still to, come. As the touring army takes the juicy
slice of 60 per cent, of the gross gate, there should
be joy in the North Countree when the members re-
turn home,
Melbourne’s chief hoofball disturbances
on Saturday concerned Richmond and Carlton and
’Roy and Essendon, all battling to keep the positions
thev have squeezed into. In the former souffle Rich-
mond, slow in starting, saw the Old Blues with a 17-
point lead before half-time; then they bogged in so
passionately that they almost drew level. But time
was against them, and they were still two points to
the bad when the bell rang—4l to Carlton’s 43. The
’Dons, battling against ’Roy, found themselves out-
paced and their system deficient, and at lemon-time
they were five goals the worse of the argument; but
in the last quarter they shifted themselves and col-
lected four goals and a few behinds. The effort ex-
hausted them, and in the last few minutes the
Maroons came once more, gained two goals and be-
hinds and won handily by 66 points to 50. There
are possibilities about the ’Dons, and they lost that
match chiefly through bad generalship in allowing
’Roy’s crack forwards to roam about on their lone-
some. At the Metropolitan Cricket Ground South
raked in an easy victory at Melbourne’s expense—9o
points to 55. The Saints pranced over the Students,
and totted up 101 points to 67. Collingwood jour-
neyed to Geelong with five new men in the team;
and the gradualness of the “express,” or the presence
of five “novices,” or undue medical comforts on
the way down or something upset the Magpies’ sys-
tem and play and everything belonging to them, so
that they returned a disgruntled, disconcerted crowd
with 36 points to Geelong’s 71. Possibly the fact
that a Magpie had been disqualified for 12 months
during the week, for “stoush,” had something to do
with the collapse. A Southerner had also been
passed out for four months, and an Essendonian for
four weeks, the latter for “cheeking” the steward.
Saturday saw the end of the first half of the round
of home-and-home matches, and the situation is that
’Varsity, Melb. and Richmond are out of it; the
other seven have a more or less lively hope of getting
there.
* * * *
The Ass. games were more exciting,
especially to some people. ’Scray risked its health
and reputation by meeting Port on the latter’s
ground, but got away unscathed with all the glory
on the premises—71 points to Port’s 49. Hawthorn
collided with P’ran, and by an extra-special effort
in the last few minutes collared sufficient points to
make a draw of it—a creditable circumstance to all
parties, though probably few of them viewed it in
that light: 68 points each. ’Town pressed on ’Cote
the customary walloping—s 4 points to 42 —and
North, annoyed over its successive trouncings by
Port and Brighton, took a firm grip of Essendon and
stamped it flat—sß points to 36. This same Brighton,
flushed with its victory over North, proceeded to
Brunswick and spread itself all over the Brickies
in the last quarter, and wound up with 62 points to
’Wick’s 45, a . feat that so annoyed the “one-eyed
barrackers” that they rushed the unfortunate umpire
and mishandled him. Between stones, lemonade
bottles, hatpins, pickets and plain fist the average
umpire earns his money. At any rate, if the club
committees won’t spend a few pounds in police to
protect umpires, it is only fair they should have a
chance to protect themselves. One against 200 or
2000 isn’t a sporting chance.
The Birthday meeting of the Adelaide
Racing Club was practically the Adelaide Cup meet-
ing of the S.A.J.C. over again on a different ground.
The campaign is the Central State’s chief splash in
racing for the year; and it shows a shocking lack of
local stayers. It is not for want of spirited inter-
state buying of promising youngsters, either; but
the right article has not been struck yet. Onka-
paringa, Adelaide, Birthday and Alderman Cups and
the two weight-for-age races have all been won by the
visiting brigade—Vic. and Westralian mostly. After
Orvieto’s Birthday Cup, the chief races of the
A.R.C. three days, were (1) the 7-furlong City Han-
dicap, kept in S.A. by George Bennett’s Friar Per-
fect ; (2) Parkside Stakes, w.f.a., in which Eltham’s
number was hoisted, with Mountain Princess second,
but the finish wHs so desperately close that the judge
had the unusual experience of being howled at; (3)
Alderman Cup, won by Hamburg Belle—Adelaide
Cup winner—from Eltham. The attendance on the
last afternoon,' with a free Flat, was the largest on
record.
The totalisator gave itself an enormous advertise-
ment at the Adelaide R.C. meeting. In a 2-year-old
race, with £3600 in the machine, only £l3 went on
the winner, Perfect Friar, full-brother to Friar Per-
fect. The result was a staggering dividend of £lB7
55., with £3 11s. left for the second. It is easily
the biggest thing since the solitary ticket on D.0.D..'
in the Goodwood Handicap of 1881, scooped in all
the £836 15s. that the machine held. And that will
never happen again, as nowadays there are always
gamblers ready to “make up a pound” if anything
seems going quite unbacked. The dividend on the
second is universal now, whenever there are 10 or
more starters, and it is highly popular. For example,
in the Birthday Cup, Hamburg Belle lost by a length
and a half, but she was too good for everything but
Orvieto, and her multitude of backers just got their
pound back. In the three days the machine handled
£64.000 —just a shade more than' at the S.A.J.C.
meeting, the promoting club getting £4BOO commis-
sion towards its stake-money:
* *
They believe they have found anew White
Hope in the U.S.A. in the person of 23-year-old Jim
Coffey, “The Dublin Giant.” ■ James is 6ft. 3im by
the tape, and 14st. 41b. bv the scales. He has
been fighting only two years, and during that time
has won most of his 24 battles. When be lost fights he
won much glory by doing honorably against men like
Jim Flynn and Battling L.evinsky. As he is a
British subject, although discovered in the U.S.A.,
he is likely to be pitted, against Bombardier Wells
for the Lonsdale Belt, and if he wins that trophy he
should be in a, fair, way to meet Frank Moran, who
is supposed to fight Johnson in Paris this month.
That is, always supposing Francis M. succeeds in
landing the bacon. If Mpran should miss the pork,
then, Coffey will .set sail, in pursuit of golden-mouthed
Johnson, who does,, not seem to be much in the lime-
light these days.
When Jajnes Paddon returns from Britain,
he may find a prospective world champion waiting
for him in, the person of Robert Stevenson, of
Wellington (M L.). Robert, the idol of the hour in
the. Loanly Isles, is said to have the strength of
Samson, and Brown’s bullock-team rolled into one.
And there is no game in which bull-like strength
counts for so much as in sculling.
Tlhese are no apologies in Maoriland when
the lords of football serve out punishment. For
biffing the referee recently Auckland Rugby Union
disqualified a man for life, and ordered him off all |
Union grounds even as a spectator for a like period.
Other Unions have been requested to recognise the •
mark of the boot as a permanent bar to either mem-,
berslnp or presence at any match. This smashing ;
has spread terror where it is likely to do most good. ,
Summer baseball threatens to he a sharp <
thorn in the side of ye olde game of cricket in Syd-,
ney. The spies have been abroad seeking
and though not wildly successful they have had some •
luck. Other councils have intimated that if cricket
does not get bigger gate money this year than it did I
last, next season the baseballers will be given a i
chance.
Tahmmy Burns’s alleged “white hope/''
Arthur Pelkey, is having a horrible time in Australia. _
Knocked out by ancient Bill Lang in his first battle,
he received a fearsome roasting in some of the Yankee ■
papers. On Saturday night he met Sam McVea, at
Melbourne Stadium, and had an even worse time. ,
Reg Baker and Jack Murray, the latter keeping wide- • -
awake for the battle, looked on. McVea made nc i
attempt to conceal the scorn he felt for Pelkey’s lack
of prowess, and grinned at him hideously. And small ]
wonder, for Pelkey is the slowest-moving boxer around,]
these parts at present. A tortoise not absolutely
out of condition would have no great difficulty in:
evading his alleged rushes. The big black was vqb:V
agile, and used a straight left with great effect. .
Sometimes he threw in a few right hooks to vary
the menu. In the third round Pelkey did manage to
land a few, but the colored brother did not to
mind them oyermuch, and retorted with a straight :
left that must have hurt a lot. Although l - McVea i
weighed 15st. to Pelkey’s 14st. 121 b., so that they .
were practically equal, the negro smote, much the,
harder. The end came in the fourth, when McVea
landed a heavy left swing right on the,.summit of/;
Pelkey’s diaphragm, fair in the middle of the solar i
plexus. It was a gem. Pelkey doubled up like a i
wet concertina, and McVea, hooking;, the left, sent ;
him down with a bang. Arthur P. struggled up at ;
the sound of nine, but was down twjee again in short ;
order, and referee Victor Newhoqse» considering the
case hopeless, stopped the alleged] scrap and handed ]
McVea the thick end of the purse,.
* * * *
The scrap between Hughie Mehegan and"’
“Kid’’ Lewis at Sydney Stadium on Saturday nights
was slightly reminiscent of the battle betwee-nt
Hughie and Mat Wells when that brilliant g]<*ve-
artist first arrived in Australia. Truly, Lewis, dld r
not gallop so far and so fast as did Wells on, that
historic occasion, neither did he show the perfect
glove work of his distinguished compatriot For
the most part Mehegan hurried round the, ring, re-
ceiving light stabs on the nose and chin as he did
so. in a wild effort to get close up and put over the
winning blow. But when he did get close •
enough he failed to put the wallop over quickly
enough and Lewis would slide along the ropes out
of reach. Still, Mehegan landed a few, and they
hurt, especially the right-handed wallops just above
Lewis’s left hip. The battered spot turned rosy pink. 1
first, then a bright red. After a while it grew
darker till the red showed signs of fading into blub.
Probably it was green by Sunday morning. Lewis
was in retreat the whole time, but he jabbed and,
stabbed as he pranced sideways and backways. In'
round two he received a terrific wallop from 1
Mehegan—a left swing that shook him badly. But he'
is of the toughest. The endurance of Jewry for
2000 years must have been concentrated in that jawt
to have enabled him to dance out of danger after ■
taking that wallop. But he only danced out to hovert
a moment: then, darting in, he gave Mehegan ru
heavy one on the mouth. In closer, Mehegan-dro/ve'
home heavy body smashes which sent the Hebrew
dancing again. Mehegan, hurrying after, received"
a right swing on the jaw that indicated that Lewis
could hit harder than most people thought/, That;
time it was Mehegan who rocked.
It was the darting left that won. Lewis the fight.'.
It piled up a heap of points so. big. that, although
he was chivvied round the ring and received the
lion’s share of the punishment,, he-.was alwavs slightly
ahead. It was clever, but. as, in Mat Wells’s first
fi'dit, it was far from, attractive. Lewis, by the
way, has a few little, tr.ickS; of his own, and one of
them is to bang on to. bis opponent’s neck with hisn
l'eft and work his right-like a piston rod. Another is
a tendency to clinch, and 1 suddenlv jerk his op-
ponent forward. . It, mav not he designed to cause the 1
opponent aforementioned to fail on his nose and break
his ardor against the floor, but if Lewis persists in it,
that is'the.construction that an evil-minded generation
will certainly. place on it. And it is wise to avoid*
even” thq appearance of evil. In the 16th Mehegan-
went down just as the gong went, but whether-he
fell or was pushed’ writer is unable to say owing- to
•an opaque gentleman obscuring the view. In the 19th
Mehpgan hunted Lewis like a mastiff hunts a rat, and
caught him a few heavy ones as thev ran. But in
the final Lewis put on a spurt and danced like the
Devil when the holy piper pursued him with bag-
pipes. So Lewis got the decision, and although
there was not much in it, he was undoubtedly en-
titled to it. Mehegan fought the wrong fight. He
insisted upon being the attacking pnrtv. His only
chance is to regard Lewis-with a dull and fireless
eve, and allow the young man to come, in and fight:
then a few judiciouslv timed swings with hoth hands
should be worth a ton of smother while hurrying
madlv in a hopeless .pursuit. But Mehegan was too
eager—and manv a good fie-ht has been thrown awav
. through .over-eagerness. "What an easv thing it is
for. a fat serihe. to tell a hardened boxer what he'
one-tit to have done—after the fight!


LEARN TO BOX SKILFULLY
AND BE A SURE WINNER!
*
A skilful boxer has a great advantage over his
opponent.
Because he applies his strength scientifically—does
the right thing at the right moment —takes good
care to reserve his powers, sees that his opponent’s
blows lash the air or land on his gloves.
How unfortunate it d be for you to engage a
skilful Boxer. Why, you’d be in doubt about a man
of your own weight and skill. Surely, you ought
to cease being a target for a good Boxer.
Learn to be a skilful Boxer. There’s no reason
for you to remain “crude.” I can teach you in
your own home.
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST
My methods are as thorough as is possible—every-
thing is as plain as plain can be. The instruction
is simple and efficient. It will teach you to be a
hard-hitting boxer, with an excellent defence. You
will be taught how to compel your adversary to
leave openings. You’ll cultivate the habit of keep-
ing yourself “covered’ at all times.
Here is what one pupil reported:—
nJ Pa « With a C ? ap h ?- e * he other niaht. He lost his headniece, and went for me
like a good one. It was good practice for me while it lasted, but that was not for long.”
v , . . „ , , „ , J. 0., Tenterfleld, N.S.W.
. 01 ' l ( - missing a fine lot of pleasure. Hadn’t you better write for further particulars as regards fees
f p^a^ e 8 nSb ° oklet ’ * yL Home.” kfndly send
REG. L. (“Snowy") BAKER,
339 BELMONT BUILDINGS,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
LLOYD’S (London)
Briar Pipes.
ALL ONE PRICE.
48 DIFFERENT SHAPES.
These Pipes are exceptional value.
The mounts are of hall-marked silver,
and each pipe is guaranteed not to
crack or burn within a reasonable
time.
fgh
No. 4
No. 9
No. 10
No. 3
ANY SHAPE, 4/6 POST FREE.
A great variety of LLOYD’S (London) Pipes
are. illustrated in my Catalog, a copy of
which will be mailed free on request.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“ CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Williams’ Holder Top
Shaving Stick.
For a practical proof of the
excellence of this new idea,
send 3d. in stamps to The J.
B. Williams Co.,
Box 98 G.P.0.,
Sydney, and you
will receive by re-
turn mail a liberal
sample exactly
like illustration.
Ipßwnoi
lONS
**
All Wideawake
Chemists sell it.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
-
flnc t TD°i r i?°° k ' CURES Write for Book
US K« blight, falling eyelashes, weak sight
o. uKEEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
lnsist on Singleton s* —refuse all substitutes.
“SHELL” again
in the
Petrol Consumption Test
held on 30/5/’ 14 from
Sydney to Katoomba.
FIRST FOUR PLACES
secured on
“SHELL”
BENZINE.
Hotelkeepers! Hotelkeepers!
ECKERSLEY’S DISPENSER
For the Rapid Production of Pure,
Crystal, Effervescent, Draught Lemon-
ade, Sodawater and every variety of
Aerated Drink.
NO LABOR ! NO BOTTLE-WASHING !
NO BOTTLE PILLING. NO LABELLING OF
BOTTLES! NO BROKEN' BOTTLES!
WORKS AUTOMATICALLY.
By Electric or Water Power.
Bar attendant simply pulls a lever and mechanical
power instantly supplies the required drink.
Write for descriptive Catalog to
wm
ECKERSLEY’S,
25a GEORGE STREET* SYDNEY
or S. MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS:
Messrs. ELLIOTT DONALDSON & DOUGLAS, 520-33 Queen Street, BRIBBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Wool
Hides
Tallow
Sheep Skins
Rabbit Skins
and Other
Produce.
SALES held at frequent
intervals by
AML.sF.CO
LIMITED
4 BLIGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Correspondence Invited.
RIGNEY SHOES SATISFY CAREFUL
DRESSERS EVERYWHERE!
No matter how particular you are in regard
to your footwear, Rigney Shoes will please
you.
Rigney Shoes are so perfect fitting, so com-
fortable, so stylish, and so well made and
serviceable that they satisfy careful dressers
everywhere.
The illustration shows a choice Russian Calf
Bal., Close Welts, Light Sole, guaranteed
hand sewn. One of the famous “Bostock’s”
(English Made) Shoes —very exclusive
shape—a shoe for gentlemen.
Price - - 35/-
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a Copy of our Catalog.
fgh
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
A REMARKABLE RIDE
• ACROSS AUSTRALIA •
Mr. E. F. REICHENBACH has just recorded one of the greatest
Cycling feats in the annals of Australian Overlanding—riding from
ADELAIDE to PORT DARWIN (1969 Miles)
in 28 Days, O Hours, 7 Mins.
15 hrs. 23 mins, better than previous record, which
had stood for 16 years. Ordinary stock “Thornproof”
DUNLOP TYRES
were selected for this strenuous undertaking, and
their Strength and Durability played a great part in
Reichenbach’s wonderful ride from Sea to Sea..
The previous record for this trip was also established on “ Dunlops,”
and the same dependable tyres to-day hold all the important
Transcontinental Cycle Records. There’s a reason!—Riders
select them because they have no equal for Wear and Reliability
l under the severest conditions. OBTAINABLE ALL AGENTS.-
DUNLOP RUBBER CO . All States anri M 7 A
•i
A
miM
m
These Liberals are a clear-sighted lot.
One wrote to the Aegtjs the other morning
in reply to Senator Pearce, asking him
“what useful purpose is served by having a
second Chamber when, as he would desire,
Labor has a majority both in the Senate
and the House of Reps.” When Labor has
a majority in the Reps, but not in the
Senate it’s all right, because then Labor
can’t do much. When the Liberals have a
majority in both Houses it is still all right,
because then Labor can’t do anything. The
absurdity begins only when Labor has a
majority in both Houses, because then it can
do something, and no system of Government
which allows Labor to do anything can
possibly be right. Why don’t these people
say thus plainly what they mean and what
they aim at?
Disraeli Braiiam (call it Bray-ham,
please), Sydney Telegkaph’s new editor,
went on to the bridge last week. The new-
comer wears no whiskers in the place where
his predecessor, Ward, wore a bushel and a
half. He is a pince-nezed young man of
under 40, with a stack of experience on the
London Times to help him. He has repre-
sented the big paper at Berlin, Constanti-
nople and St. Petersburg (Sydney Harbor
is reminding him of the Bosphorus all the
time), and for five years he has been in
London as foreign editor. His success as
an organiser in that billet led up to a seat
on the Times’ Board of directors. The
chances are that if the paper had remained
the old threepenny “Thunderer” instead of
becoming still another Harmsworth penn’-
orth Australia would never have seen him.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
Punting on Thames.
m
-
}j-
... . -:%%:> • 3
>' t3s§ijS3£i*.-'-3. -£} h
n• rt*
i • x a*
n
>* . -
;
" jrvmi* 1 ■
W "i
3 J
* '
yt'
v . pos^
*
/
u
5£
Wj
m
r^-r
r ' //r -o <- v
3
- RfegeS
rZ&W&'rf
J i
V- -~.
r
13
W
K . <*«£**•
L. '**Yu
ass©
9s®t&
S 7 '
• .
iMSis&r.
r'VSr-'
m :
*#C’
£OBs>l
MTS
•SSs
-wftfc
KSflT 1 -??
. ..„-....rvJ>' , ''‘ '" S T”
-
.
' " "
yrrSiW
S3V '' ‘ ‘ 3.;.:
«S*5S
>-^fV
fTw '%>
Cobra,” &f>e Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim F 00,
With the bear
Punts down to Kew.
Merrily they
Push along
Till the bear
D oes someth
Just because
H e wasn’t quick,
Like a monkey
On a stick,
There he clings !
But river ooze
Cannot harm
His “COBRA” shoes.


For Sale.
A GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY
-ylflf) ACRES, rich agricultural and sheep-grazing
land, 110 acres cleared, 1200 acres rung, in
rainfall of 17in, 90 miles from Perth, W.A. Only
ei«-ht miles from railway siding. Abundance of feed
and water. Will carry 500 sheep at present. Price
is £lOOO. Terms are £2OO cash, balance to suit
purchaser. Further particulars from—
HATCH BROS.,
Stock and Station Agents,
Brookton, Western Australia.
Business Announcements.
We invite you to buy a box of “ De
Reszke” Cigarettes and compare them
with any brand you please. Their quality
will appeal to you.
fgh
Hvnwcea,
TOUCHES
THE
SPOT
THE PIONEER OF SKIN CURES
No household should be without it.
Fop ECZEMA, PILES, ICALDS, BURNS,
CUTS, BRUISES, SORES, and all Skin
Complaints.
For Free Sample enclose Two Penny Stamp .
LYALL WILLIS & CO.,
Lo!e IVhol sale Agents,
127, York Street, Sydney.
You might as well expect
a troop of Boy Scouts to
capture Gibraltar as to
an ordinary dentrifice to
successfully combat the
ravages of “ Acid Mouth ”
upon the teeth.
There’s as much difference
between any ordinary den-
trifice and Pebeco Tooth
Paste as there is between
a flintlook musket of 1778
and a present-day machine-
gun.
PGBCCO
TOOTH PASTE
Ordinary Dentifrices clean,
whiten and polish teeth. Here
their work stops—for th sis
all they were ever intended
to do. Pebeco Tooth Paste
was made to do what no other
known dentrifrice has ever
done overcome “ Acid
Mouth “ —that arch-enemy of
the teeth because it is the
direct cause of 95 per cent, of
all tooth decay.
Send 3d stamps for sample tube and
interesting test of “ Acid Mouth."
Of all Chemists.
G. ARNOLD, 6 O’Connell Street,
Sydney (wholesale only).
LANCASTER’S
High=class Guns & Rifles.
gh
On view at Sole Agents—
HERBERT OXLEY & CO.
26 Strand Arcade, Queen Street,
AUCKLAND, N.Z.,
from whom full particulars and catalogues can
be obtained free by post.
CHARLES LANCASTER & CO. Ltd.
Gunmakers to H.M. King George V., 11 Panton
Street, Haymarlcet, London, Eng. (Est. 1826)
There’s Danger in Unclean False Teeth!
People who use only the best dentifrices
for their natural teeth are satisfied to
simply wash the false teeth in water.
This is a positive danger to health.
It is easy to keep artificial teeth and
plates sweet and clean with DENSO, the
Perfect Cleanser.
However discolored and unnatural false
teeth may have become, DENSO will
immediately restore them to perfect fit,
cleanliness and color. Send Id. stamp
for postage on FREE Sample. [2
FIITIU & Thoroughly
ULil U Cleanses!
J. M. Wilkes 8 Co„ Alphington, Melb., Vic.
"THE LONE HAND, Bound Volume, New Series,
‘ No. I—including Colored Covers —IS NOW
READY. Orders for same will be treated in order
of priority. Price: Bound Volumes, 7/C; Binding
Covers, 2/6.
ml 1
CO
o ©
—M
05)
cn
fcO
ill
1., ' '
8,760 Hours on a Drop of Oil
20,090 Jewellers say that Big Ben
does more efficient work for less pay
than any other clock built. He’s a
regular glutton for good work.
In return for one little drop of oil
Big Ben will work for you a full year.
From “ Boots on” to “ Lights out” —
365 times —he’ll guarantee to tell you
the time o’ day with on-the-dot accur-
acy. He has made the same guar-
antee over 3,000,000 times and made
good every time. He’ll make good
for you. Close on £2,000,000 has
passed over good jewellers’ counters
for Big Ben and his brothers.
A Big Ben battalion, over 3,000
strong, leaves La Salle, Illinois, every
day. Every one of them feels proud
of his triple nickel-plated coat of im-
plement steel; his dominating seven-
inch height; his large, bold figures
and hands ; and his big easy-to-wind
keys. No other clock can match
looks and ability to serve.
Things move with a will when
timed w.th Big Ben. He’ll wake you
gradually by ringing every other
half-minute for ten minutes, or rout
you out in a hurry with one long
musical ring. Suit yourself how he
does it. You can shut him off short
in the middle of his call, if you wish.
He is built in a live town for live
people. And his best work has been
on the farm. Work before breakfast
is started right on time when Big
Ben time is set. He never over-
sleeps. He runs on time, rings on
time, and stays on time.
Big Ben is made in La Salle, Illinois,
U.S.A., by Westelox. His price is 12/6,
postage 1/- extra. If you cannot find him in
your town, send a money order to his makers’
Australian office, Westclox, 63 Pitt Street,
Sydney. They will have one mailed to
you at once by the nearest jeweller.
If you want the very best
FLANNELETTE
the Old Country Produces
HORROCKSES’
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON SELVEDGE
and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all Fir;t-Class Drapers and Storekeepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS.
Hotel Stewart
SAN FRANCISCO
A high-class hotel very favorably known to
travellers from Australia, New Zealand and
the Orient. Headquarters for Britishers in
San Francisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. Third annex just completed. 350
rooms. 250 connecting bathrooms. Every
comfort and convenience. Beautifully fur-
nished. Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping, theatre
and cafe districts. On street car lines to all
parts of city. Our omnibuses with uni-
formed attendants meet all steamers and
trains. Travellers are urged to make reser-
vations by letter or wireless to be assured
the most satisfactory accommodation. Cable
address, “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals, 16s. a day and up.
Rooms without Meals, Bs. a day and up.
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
Proprietors.
When something is wanted
to put on a burn or scald,
to heal a cut, scrat ch,
oi skin sore,, apply
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment
It soon relieves the soreness and pro-
motes a qui k cure, while for a skin
wound especially its antiseptic virtue is
important. On other occasions also
it is useful—for insect bites or stings 5
for eczema, ringworm, and skin ail-
ments generally—whenever a healing
antiseptic ointment is needed.
Local Sto'ts and Chemists sell it.
Made by F.C CALVERT & Co. , Manchester, Enc.
n
Tested
and
tried
and prescribed for thousands of cases
of weak digestion and loss of health and
strength. The vast number of testi-
monials received from Medical men
testify to this. It is the finest Health
Food-Dr.nk for all ages, made of
purest milk and cereals.
HORL'CKS
MALTED MILK
is immensely popular in Australia.
It is ready for use and needs no
cooking and makes a most delicious
drink —giving health and strength to
all.
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
Get it at the Soda
Fountain.
Australia
has proved
ft best
ghghf
The Inky Way.
A noted Australian journalist shakes off the
harness when Dr. (affectionately known as “Whis-
kers”) F. W. Ward backs from the editorial chair
of the Sydney Daily Telegraph to make way for
the imported colt, D. D. Braham. Ward is a Maori-
lander, born in 1849, and educated for his
father’s profession—heavenly guidance. Somewhere
in the ’OO’s young Ward reached Sydney and began
work under the then well-known Wesleyan parson,
William Curnow, afterwards editor of the S. M.
Herald ; but he soon strayed from the Narrow
Track to the Inky Way. First, he joined the
S.M.H., and was in turn editor of the Echo
(evening) and Mail (weekly). In 1885 he was
given the chair of the Sydney D.T., and five years
later ran into trouble over the proposal of some
influential citizens to develop the tramway service
bv Private Enterprise. Ward refused to agree to
any such policy and emphasised the point by re-
signing from the paper. After a year or two in
London, during which he did good work for The
Times, he returned to Australia, was editor of Bris-
bane Courier for a while, then associate-editor of
Melbourne Argus, and, in 1903, went back to the
chair of Sydney D.T. as successor to Henry Gullett,
who had, under his agreement, the right of nomina-
tion. Presently he will depart for a trip to Britain,
but hopes to return to view from the bank the
old battle of Australian and State politics. Per-
haps, with the freedom of the onlooker, he’ll see
more of both sides of the shindy than he has in
the past several years.
The time-worn premises of the S. M. Herald are
coming down soon. The office on the corner of Hun-
ter, Pitt and O’Connell streets was built in 1856.
The back portion, originally the auction room of
Dean and Co., and later of Bradley, Newton and
Lamb, was added some years ago. By agreement
with the City Council the alignment on Hunter-street
will go back a trifle to make it uniform with the
line between O’Connell and Bligh streets, and the
corner will be rounded off. Originally a pub known
as the Red Cow occupied the front. In fact, when-
ever a Sydney- site is mentioned, it is safe to say that
some time or other it was occupied by a pub. The
only difference is that it wasn’t always the Red Cow.
* * * *
“W.G.”: To the point of two pars, in the “Inky
Way,” let me make known that it is not, as some
might suppose, any recommendation for a job on a
Labor paper to be a Labor man and a Labor journal-
ist. This is a fact I’ve learned by experience.
“All we care about is support,” a “Labor” editor
once told me, and in another burst of confidence he
remarked: “It's only once in a while I let myself
remember this is a Labor paper.” Can anybody say
that the editor of the Labor daily about to be pub-
lished in Sydney was given the chair as a result of
his Labor sympathies? There are scores of men in
Australia who believe in the Labor movement, are
able to give a reason for the faith that is in them,
and know the history of the movement, its philosophy
and tactics —in short, who have qualified for the
work of a Labor journalist, and who know all there
is to know about the ways of the enemy. But they
never get a chance to run a Labor paper. Why ?
The Labor organs of Australia are mostly
nobbled by political outsiders, and it is
high time that those who help to pay the piper
got in a claim to call the tune. These Labor organs
squeak terribly about the degradation of the hire-
ling journalist who sells his brain to Fat; but when
they need an editor it is the man with Fat tradi-
tions they generally get. It is bad business. A
man can best write what he believes. This state-
ment is founded on a law of nature, though it may
make the “hireling” scribe grin. Jean Jacques
Rousseau, a scribbler who kicked up a bit of a
dust in his day and is credited with fattening
the French Revolution, was once asked by the prin-
cipal of a Jesuit college how he was able to write
so well. “I said what I thought,” replied Jean
Jacques. Will the editor of The World be able
to do that ? If not, he will be a failure. Rousseau
was the kind of man they don’t want on Labor
papers ; he might happen to write what was true and
scare some clique of alleged Labor politicians from
office or plain graft (which, by the way, they call
expediency, for short).
The frankness of the Northern scribe. This to
the North Queensland Register from its Winton
correspondent (5/5/’l4) : “It is with great, regret
that I chronicle the death of another old friend in
the person of Mr. Eugene Smith” (say, Smith).,
“who went off like the snuff of a candle about 5
p.m. on Sunday. Dr. Braccer certified that death
resulted from alcoholism, delirium tremens and
cardiac paralysis.” ,
** -*■*
The Green Room is the newest of the growing
family of theatrical paperzines or magpapers in Aus-
tralia. No. 1 issue appeared on June 1, and as
sixpen’orth of stage news, g,ossip, photographs and
cartoons by popular Australian writers and artists
it can be recommended for encouragement. It is
published in Adelaide, edited by Ilex Syme, con-
trolled by Hugh D. Mclntosh and his Tivoli lieu-
tenants, and will blossom on the bookstalls monthly.
* * * *
A Maoriland paper gets its chance at last: —
“Mr. has been compelled to put up the shutters
of his establishment. This is pretty hard lines seeing
he has been in business in the town for over 20 .years.
But he has himself to blame, for he has done no
advertising, and consequently there was no chance of
new settlers to the town and district knowing that
he existed at all. No good, you can’t get on without
advertising.”
MY HORSE OF DREAMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If I, with halter, curb and bit,
Could break my errant fancy in,
Hold it with bridle-rein of wit,
Or spur it on with some sharp sin,
Then would I mount my steed and ride
Across broad landscapes rich and wide.
But when I seek my dream to tame
To common, profitable use,
The cunning thing goes stiff and lame,
Or rears and buckjuinps like the Deuce ;
This most uncompromising hack
Endures no saddle on his back.
I stroke his neck with soft caress,
I try to lead him by the mar.e;
In kindest language I address
The beast, and all my soul explain;
But it is clear for all to see
When thus we walk that he leads me.
He-drags me into bog and mire,
He climbs high hills to get the view,
He never really seems to tire
Unless I speak of work to do ;
And then he simply lies flat down,
And will not earn me half a crown.
But while he lives the stars must still
Arise and set with warmer glow,
And strange, wild bursts of music fill
The wide world-spaces that we know;
Cantankerous as he may be,
The curious brute belongs to me.
But some day I may get my gun
And kill the wizard thing outright,
That I for evermore may shun
The path he led me through the night;
Then I shall leave the world’s gold top,
Come down and keep a grocer’s shop.
N.s.w.
GEORGE STREET.


n
There’s a Record in the Register
Before the Customer Gets the Goods.
The “Get a Receipt” plan enforces a record inside the
register before the goods are wrapped. The receipt is
wrapped in the parcel, and the record must be made before
the receipt is issued. f
This record is the assistant’s own acknowledgment that he
has sold a certain amount of goods and will be responsible
for a corresponding sum of , money. It is your receipt for
the transaction.
This protects your business, shows you at all times just
where you stand, benefits your customers, saves time and
increases profits.
Write for information to-day about the National Cash
Register that is built for the particular needs of your
business.
The National Cash Register Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE 119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches in all Principal Cities.
Diamonds!
You Know Their Value.
How reliable an investment they make. Well,
we can offer you Diamond Rings, set with 5 Pine
Gems, at a price showing a 40% Saving on every-
day rates. This is brought about by means of a
special purchase of two Parcels of Diamonds offered
to our London House by a Cutter, who needed
cash. He probably takes it out of the small
Jeweller —but that’s no concern of yours, natur-
ally. The hard, sensible fact remains, you can
effect this substantial saving by promptly investing
in one of these H.H., 5-stone' Diamond Rings.
&5, £.<> lOs., £.7 lOs., £.& lOs., £.lO
Just compare these prices with the actual Rings
and you have at once full proof of the wonderful
value they represent.
On receipt of a satisfactory reference we will
forward a selection to any address.
ƒgh
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
fgh
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
Price 1/- per Bottle. Of all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
ghf
mi
&
m
i\ >
W&fi
Suiiuoui
9 HI U I,
it is such an easy matter to get
your teeth ready to be seen,
when you use
Calvert's)
and of course, the same
thorough antiseptic cleansing
is just as necessary
again at night.
Soi l by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by
k F C. CALVERT & CO.,
MANCHES. ER,
Eng.
Freedom, Ease & Comfort
WELMAR
SHIRT
Pat. 1274 24/5/11.
Stocked by
Leading Mercers
and
Outfitters
m
Manufactured by
WELCH, MARGETSON& CO.
PTY. LTD.
CHALLENGE.
MURPHY CHALLENGES THE WORLD
TO CURE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL
BLEEDING PILES.
Permanent Cure. Established 1891.
MURPHY’S PIUE PILLS, NON-
APERIENT,
have cured thousands of cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by
ANDREW MURPHY, WOY WOY,
N.S.W., Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, or a Course of 8
boxes £l. All postage free.
On Sale by all Druggists, Chemists and Store-
keepers throughout the ' States.
“Hermes” : The smashing of the Empress
of Ireland and the ripping-up of the Titanic
have brought home the need of some contriv-
ance to keep people afloat and dry for a few
hours. In the case of' the Titanic the Car-
patliia picked up hundreds of bodies which
the lifebelts had kept on the surface. They
were not drowned. They had died from shock
and exposure. The sea was like glass. Any
old thing that would have kept them afloat
and- dry would have saved them. But there
was no such thing available. It has been
suggested that the whole of the top deck
of a passenger steamer should be so made
that in the event of sudden disaster it would
float off in the form of a number of giant
rafts. But the trouble is to build a deck so
that it would be immovable when a ship
rolled in a gale, and yet free enough to float
off when the ship made its plunge. The
two essentials have so far proved incom-
patible. While waiting for something better
a' Melbourne man has invented or evolved
what he calls the “Norma Safety Dress.”
•Briefly it is a dress of four layers of
material. The outside is a specially woven
canvas, soaked in oil; the next-a layer of
waterproof cement; the third is 24 inches of
solid cork; the fourth a skin of Para rubber.
The dress! which encloses the whole body,,
feet, hands and head, is entered from the
top; the hood, including a visor of tem-
pered glass, is drawn over and sealed to the
chest. When the wearer throws or finds
himself in the water he will, of course, float
horizontally, lie submerges his ankles or
rolls on to his side, and the water flows into
an outside chamber round the legs, so that
he assumes an upright position and floats
chest deep in the water. Breathing sub-
stance is admitted through a valve
on the top of the head, which will
admit air but not water. _ Most of
the big smashes in the Atlantic are due
to,either collision or fire. On the Austra- 1
lian coast they are usually the result of an
attempt to take a short cut overland. And
they invariably happen at night. People
are hurried from-their beds into the water,
and the lifebelts that keep them afloat are
no protection against the rocks. This safety
dress would be like a suit of armor in a
struggle there. But, so far, the idea does
not seem to have been taken up by either the
shipping companies or the travelling public.
It may be that there is a fatal flaw in it
somewhere ; on the other hand the fact that,
in the mass, humanity is a happy-go-lucky
cuss may be the only reason why this or
some other similar contrivance isn’t in gen-
eral use. ‘ ,
“Sprit”: Re “B.’s” suggestion (B.
4/6/’I4) to make navigation at any speed
during a fog a criminal offence. It is very
necessary to put all shipping cos.’ directors
in the dock with the captain if you would
stop “carrying on” in dull weather. Around
the Australian coast the skipper is .up
against his owners if he doesn’t run to time,
and up against everybody if he runs to time
so well that he runs somebody else to eter-
nity. ■ If the skipper of the Storstad had
wasted a day or more at anchor in a fog-
bank. his'owners would have at least remem-
bered it against him that he didn’t take the
risk bn the occasion.when. nothing happened.
He is .here again—the walking-round-the-
world fiend. - This time he is nothing less
than a Count, “MileukoKaithenitch, Comte
de Montreforte.” There is the usual old bet
—£2ooo this time —made with the usual
old unspecified paper, on the • usual condi-
tion that' the. traveller must do no work.
All the Count may do is' to' sell autograph
photographs of himself. And no. doubt he
will succeed, and the measure of his success
will be the shame that the .World ought to
feel for itself. -
Despite the fact that the N.S.W.
tion award fixes the hours in the printing
trade at. 48 a week, the-Government Print-
ing Office, which, has hitherto been working
4U hours, lias further cut its time down to
434. This is very altruistic, no doubt. But
the’ Government Printing Office cannot hope
to show as good results as the best houses
in the' trade which pay the same wages for
44 hours more work ; and the failure of the
Department to do so will be urged as an ex-
'cuse for more mud-slinging at Government-
run institutions.
The arrival of a new King’s understudy
is of rather less importance to the public
than the- prompt delivery of to-morrow’.-
milk; but the police, of whoui there always
seeni to be e'nough for‘such occasions, make
as much fuss as if the deserving person
under the principal cocked hat were Gsesar
returning from something special in the map-
altering line. On the day Munro Ferguson
arrived, a .St. Ivilda doctor actually had the
nerve to leave his motor standing in front
of his house' in Fitzroy-street, also to dis-
regard the command or appeal of a constable
with the beautiful name of Cutlibert to re-
move the machine. Ilis disobedience sub-
sequently cost him 10s. in court. Yet Fitz-
roy-street is so wide that a fairly spry pedes-
trian who steps off the footpath on one side
is about two minutes older when he reaches
the opposite kerb. If this road isn’t broad
enough for the immense Muriro Ferguson
and the doctor, then, the doctor being the
more necessary of the two, arrangements
ought to be made for the next-arriving G.-G.
to fly ashore.
The train-line has at last been taken out
of Adelaide's principal street; as to which it
must be remembered that King William-
street is a mile long, and of the lordly width
of two chains, and that the train ran through
only the southern and unpopular one-third of
it. Local residents mostly say that it has
been unpopular solely because of the train;
but this remains to be seen. Meanwhile,
the suburbanites from Glenelg, who are
turned out at the City boundary, to finish
their journey by. a .tram-car which may or
may not be there —the first day or two it
mostly wasn’t —say all kinds of violent
things. The Jockey Club was able to get
the line left till the Cup Week crowds had
been dealt with. About half the Glenelg
travellers have taken to patronising the other
line, which runs in to North Terrace station,
at the other side of the city; but this starts
and finishes at a far-distant platform or sid-
ing which makes the pilgrimage much the
same. Except for the student of picturesque
language, Glenelg has been a good place to
stay away from'just lately;


Avoid Disappointment by Ordering your Electric Motors Wow
THE GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. (U.S.A.) and the
BRITISH THOMSON HOUSTON CO. LTD.,
tn?3i
Rugby, England
Stock all Sizes
up to 50 H.P.,
both for A.C.
or D.C. Circuit.
ƒgh
These motors are excellently designed —built of the best materials in modern workshops —
by skilled workmen, and are noted for Reliability, High Efficiency, Durability, High
Overload Capacity, Economy of Operation —and recognised as representing the
Standard for quality in Electric Motors.
They are Subjected to Severe Tests and Examinations before Despatch.
A
0
Melbourne
Queen ©Little Collins Sts
Cor.
Street
S
dne
SIT Clarence
THE LAST WORD —f
IN STEAM ENGINES IS UNQUESTIONABLY
MARSHALL’S
which have demonstrated their superiority in every part of the Globe, and in every class of work t over a period of 60 years.
£
aswj
QUALITY and Positive RELIABILITY
are MARSHALL’S Watchwords— :
Ask any of the hundreds of satisfied users of MARSHALL'S PORTABLES, STEAM
TRACTIONS, OIL TRACTORS, BOILERS, etc., throughout New South Wales,
what they think about their purchase, and you will be quite convinced.
"Can't be beat," "Best on earth," "Working constantly for 50 years without a hitch,"
"Worth their weight in gold," "Not a moment's lost time" these are a sample
of the remarks we hear every day throughout the year.
Don’t be persuaded into believing there are other engines just as good as MARSHALL’S!
Send for Descriptive Catalog post free. CASH OR VERY EASY TERMS.
R. L. SCRUTTON <&. CO. LTD.,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
“COURTESY and ATTENTION AT COST PRICE."


Shipping;.
Pm and O.
BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
•Twin Screw. All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £IS & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 lfs.
Tickets for return, via Sue 7. (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 Its.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SAK'DERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo Wills & Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
ORMONDE
DRAMA
OR VIICTO
OSTKHLEV
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES
OMRAII
. Geared Turku he
.Triple-Screw
. Twin Screw
15,000 Regd. Tons.
13,000
12V1 of)
12,129
12,124
12,077
12.030
9,023
3,282
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Strainers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric. Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &e.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
K. A. WARDEN (President), W. 11. O'M. WOOD,
11. I). HARD.
DEPOSIT YOUR SURPLUS MONEY
in this Bank, where it will earn INTEREST
at 3J% on the 'first £2QO, and 3% on .the
excess to .£5OO, Jjnxl REPAYABLE 0N...
DEMAND when you require it.
Deposits Received from Is.
MONEY TO LEND ON MORTGAGE
at Low Interest ,to Farmers and Settlers and
on Approved City and Suburban Freeholds.
This Bank has No Agencies at Post Offices.
'Represented in the State by 125 Branches
and over IjjOO Agencies.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE
of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL. £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £352.500.
Directors: lion. Sir ALFRED COWLEY-
Iion. ROBERT PIIILP, M.L.A.; lion A ,7
TITYNNE, M.L.C.
Obnkiui. Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES. ;m
‘Head Office: IVrishane. =
Sydney Office: 242 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WOll&B,
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
TH E
Australian flank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1009 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL , . ..£2,000 000
SUBSCRIBED .. .. ’
PAID-UP (31st Dec., 1913)
RESERVE FUND
£1,198.534
. . £1,195,446
£35,000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets. Svdnev.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; G non (in J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon,
Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq. ; Frank N
Yarwood, Esq.; Ukrbkrt R. Lysaght. -Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth"
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the’
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO.OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital ~. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 154,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,609 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since ISO 3 spcciall; / protected.
Directors Jas. Munro, Esq (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunniim
Esq. : Hon. G. W. Grav, M.T..C.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia. Scotland. Ireland
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East’
The B°lonial fQutial Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000 000
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitablv distributed
Chief Office for New South’ Wales;
28 ELIZABETH STREET. SYDNEY.
Directors:
ihe Hon. C. J, Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
Tlie Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C.. M.P.
A ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary
Shipping
XT ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD, N.D.L.
-A-” imperial mail steamers.
TO n£?, LOMBO - SUEZ. NAPLES, GENOA, ALGIERS,
SnTTTLT A MD'roxT . J
All Steamers fitted with Laundrv.
FARES TO LONDON: 1., £7l/10/-; 11., £4O;
lU-, £l5 to £l9. RETURN: 1., £lO7/5/-; IT.,
£6O: 111.. £3O/12/- to £37-/10/
LOT [MA NN and CO.. General, Agents, 7 Bridgc-st.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to tiny part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
Steamers sail as under (circumstances permitting).
Australia and San Francisco.
"Cabins de luxe, with private bath, etc.
tOne, two and three-berth rooms.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 2 days at Wellington and 24 hours
at Papsete —“ The Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth & London.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
*Triple-serew Turbine. fNew, Triple-Screw Steamer.
Steamers Fitted with Wireless.
Silicon’ FARES — Third-class.
London, from £45. ; £l6 to £2O.
Capetown and Durban, from £3O. £l3/13 to £l7/17/-
Special Rofuid Tickets for Return by Orient Line,
£llO (First-class both ways) ; £B2 (Second-class
Orient).
Saloon Return and stop-over tickets interchange-
able with Holt’s Blue Funnel Line. Third-class
Return and stop-over tickets interchangeable with
P. & O. Service.
ROUND-THE-WORLD TICKETS from £122/10/-.
SALOON CABIN'S on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, etc., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY 'j
BRISBANE
ROCK HAMILTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
•CAIRNS
(•Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports). J
NORTH.
OOOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney June 20.
CANBERRA (8000 'Tons).
Leaves Melbourne June 24
Leaves Sydney June 27.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne July 1.
Leaves Sydney July 4.
For
MKT/BOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports).
SOUTH.
CANBERRA. (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney June 20.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney June 27.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc.. fron|3^
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
WINTER TOURS
im
b
TO THE NEW HEBRIDES
via Lord Howe &. NorfolK Islands.
A Voyage Replete with Novel Sights,
- Beautiful Scenery and Curious People.
One of the longest, most enjoyable and
inexpensive Island Holiday Trips ever .
devised.
53 DAYS* TOUR FOR £.25.
Send for our special Leaflet describing this most interesting cruise.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge Street, Sydney. William Street,
Melbourne. Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
BANK OF
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability -
NEW S
- Established
OUTH WALES.
1317.
MA
DIRIiC'J UUS
£3,500,000
£2,450,000
£3,500,000
£9,450.000
The lion. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, lit., M.L.C
President. i
Thomas Auckland, Esq.
—Prichard Minnie, —Esq— r ' ' '
The Hon. Sir Nornmnd MacLauiin, Kt., M.H.C.
I lie IJon. Janies T. Walker
The lion. Edmund W. Eosbery, C.M.G. M.L C.
The lion. Reginald.. J, Black, M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Alfred. George MH'son, Esq.; William Harrington Palmer,’ Esq
Head Office-George St . Sydney London Office-29 Threadneedle St EC
340 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London'
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT
I 111-, tt OLLP. _ t _ , . .T, RUSSELL FRENCH, -General Manager.
■The Commercial Banking-Co.
©
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,976,168 15 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,650,000 0 0
Reserve Capital . . . . 2,000,000 0 0
£5,656,168 15 0
* DIRMOTORS:
Gkobok J. Co mix', Esq... .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C; A. J. Oxslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Suei,i,ey, Esq.
Auditors': E S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dirbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: IS Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq.; lion. H. S.
Littleton ; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of Be* l Z ea nd.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £1,000,000
Preference Shares . . . . . . 500,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,000,000) Paid-
. up . . . • . ■ . ■ . . 500.000.
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS
tain and Ireland,
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £541,654 10 0
Reserve Liability of .Shareholders . . 156,136 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 78,500 0 0
£779,291' 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
26 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C. ’
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
fll HE Best Stories 'written in Australia
JL appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price 6d.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers, 17 knots
Classed 100 A 1 at British Llovds.
.CABINS DJi LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY-
VENTURA
SONOMA ..
I J uly 4 I Ail". 29 | Oct. 24 I Dec. 19
| Aug. 1 j Sept. 26 j Nov. 21 j Jan. 16
Th Vn r .? l,gil *. r ‘P *° England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD IJY P. &0., ORIENT LINE
N.-U.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
'fHE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
‘the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE)
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Munvillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Companv’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—■
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000,
Fire Insurancas
effected on all classes of
Buildings, -Stocks, Furui
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marins Ris'ts ..
on W 001, Merchandise,
Hulls Qf Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
Ine “United" is an Australian Institution.
THOMAS M. TINLET, Manager.
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY r
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping: at Fremantle I
to all North-Western Ports. J
T.S.S. WAN DILL A (SOOO
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
July 4 and August],
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steeraire Passengers.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
Townsville
And Ports North to Ca
WARILDA (8<)00 tons),
June 27 and July 25.
Wireless Telegraphy.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services Subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO.. LTD..
Agents. 6* BRIDGE STRUCT, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CAN A DIA N-AUS T R A L A SIA N R. M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Hailwav.
the “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CI.ASS.
SAILINGS :
' Triple-screw steamer, fitted with cabins-de-luxe en
suite; Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
First Saloon passengers to Honolulu and points
beyond wishing to break journey at New Zealand
may proceed b.y Intercolonial steamer from Sydney
without extra charge.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
l ull particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
STEAM TO LONDON, LIVERPOOL AND
BRISTOL (Avonmouth).
T.S.S. DORSET.
11,000 Tons. CAPTAIN GORDON.
SYDNEY . . . . about JULY 4, 1914.
MELBOURNE . . „ JULY 7, 1914.
...... , f'aktjst'ct London (
Saloon, £4O. Third-ClaSs, £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-
Saloon Fares from Brisbane, £2 extra.
Steerage, £l/1/- extra.
Saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on upper deck situated amidships. Well-
lighted and ventilated cabins with spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provi-
sions from cool chamber throughout the vovage.
Electric light throughout. Return- and round-trip
tickets issued via Cape and/or Suez Canal. Prepaid
passages arranged. Fitted with Wireless.
For illustrated pamphlets and full information
apply
BIRT & COMPANY, LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER. SMITH & COMPANY LTD., Adelaide
H. JONFS & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Huddart Parker Line,
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,”
“ Ulimaroa,”
“Riverina,”
‘Westralia,
‘Wimmera,
‘Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Kitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH A ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
110 UART AND SYDNEV,
MELIiOUItNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELIiOUItNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN POUTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Itates and Time-tables-.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITER),
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
WAVERLEY PENS
WAp3CT
FOR SWIFT LEGIBLE WRITING NO PEN
CAN COMPETE WITH A WAVERLEY.
ITS ENTICING ACTION, ITS SMOOTH
TURNED-UP POINT, AND ITS DURA-
BILITY, MAKE IT INCOMPARABLY THE
BEST NIB AND THE CHEAPEST. THE
RESERVOIR WAVERLEY CAN DO 200
WORDS WITH ONE TIP. TRY IT.
SIXPENCE "PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS.
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
321 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE :


lljolels. &c.
rjHbS
0.1
STf
'EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne*
Largest Hotel Acconnr.ociation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 15/6 per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hold is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney,
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORN ICR and LOUNCU BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
arc spa red, to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlercagh Street, Sydney.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
ghfgh
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES ltaven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/1t
Directions with every
bottle
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St, Melbourne
FOR A FAIR DINKL'M GO
. ... TRY THE ... 4
0000900000
~BU
lE-ZON
Accordeons
The World’s Best
35/-, 42/- 63/-
Sole Agent:
LYONS,
Bourkest.,Melb.
Commonwealth
lIEAI> OFFICE
Jfiank^Huetralia
SYDNEY
Open
■for all
General Banking Business
in the
principal
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places nirect. Foreign I ll's negotiated and collected.
Letters of credit issued to .any parto. the world. Bills negotiated or forwar* ed for collection Ranking and
Exchange Business of tvery description transacted within the Commonwealth, United King loiu and abroad.
Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits. Advances made against approx ed securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at
Deposits
from
1/- to £3OO 2000
Post Offices
in Australia,
and Papua
Interest at
per annum
3%
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor.
DEXIS N MILLER, Governor,
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a iield of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
A DELIGHTFUL SHAVE.
M 6
Do j'ou experience comfort and delight when you shave? You cer-
tainly will if you use
A “PLUM” RAZOR.
The “Plum” will prove a daily delight. It is a superior razor that
gives satisfaction always. The blade of a “Plum” is different—that’s
why. Perfectly-tempered, there is a keen edge on a “Plum’’ that cuts
the hair and leaves the face soft and smooth as a child’s..
TRY ONE YOURSELF—IO 6, Post Free.
We keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a handsome present.
All the Above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price hist.
.CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
DIAMONDS REDUCED ENORMOUSLY.
Never before in the experience of Aus-
tralia were so many Diamonds sold as
last year. Our sales were enormously
large.
WHY?
Well, we, some years ago, took on a
Sole Agency calling for an enormous out-
put, and to live up to it we decided to
offer Diamonds at merely a broker's com-
mission above landed cutters’ cost.
The first year it did not pan out too
well; the second year the very large out-
put told, and so we are continuing the
experiment for another year.
We only sell the Higher Grade of Dia-
monds, but our prices are lower than those
of London.
Fine Blue Sap-
phire and 2 Dia-
monds, set in
Platinum, £6/6/-
5 Choice Blue
White Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
£2O.
3 Diamond?, set
in Platinum, £5.
No. N 0402.
Fine quality Dia-
mond fancr- clus-
ter, £27.
1 Whole Pearl
and 2 Fine Dia-
monds, set in
Platinum, £6/6/-
3 fine Montana
Sapphires and 2
Diamonds, £lO.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, Ltd.
PLAIN FIGURES
CASH ONLY.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
V V
INFLAMATIOM
of the Knee
CURED BY
Solomon
Solution
A
A
ScSB-H—H-aj
L.R.W.
L. R. W.
“.Sometime ago I suffered from
a swollen knee. Constant walking
on the hard pavements caused
ififlanlatioH to set in. I consulted
a doctor, but without relief. A
friend advised me to use SOLOMON
SOLUTION. I am pleased to say I did,
with tlie gratifying result that
after a few applications I was
cured and have had no return of
the pain since.”
(Signed) J. J. Lloyd.
South Melbourne.
Obtainable in 2/6 Jars from Store-
keepers and Chemists; post free
for 3/- from
SOLOMON COX & SON
439 Bourke St., Melbourne
Queensland Park Saddle
A splendid saddle for general use. Made on best
English tree, with Plated Bars and Double Gullet,
and is built of best material throughout.
This saddle has hogskin seat and pads, extra long
flaps, Victoria panel, deep, sweepy seat, nickel-plated
4-bar irons, folded girth, £3/19/6 Complete, add
exchange. Mention The Bulletin when ordering.
A surcingle will be given free. This saddle is for-
warded freight paid to any railway station or port,
N.S.W., or any port Queensland. Obtained from
J. P. TALTY, Manufacturer, 388 SUSSEX
STREET, SYDNEY.
fgh
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive y~u. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
I
m
mi
.
mm
m
mmmmm
A
&w
«)•
fll
mm
WOLF
Patent Superheated
Steam Locomobiles
TH-* ——————‘ I‘T" "iIT 'nHTVMffi'ff-fiißejMmww^
We are installing, amongst others, three of these
engines for the SYDNEY WATER SUPPLY, and
two for the BROKEN HILL WATER SUPPLY;
we also have a great many already in successful
use throughout Australia.
The illustration shows
The Fulda Electric Power Station,
consisting of—
-2 Units, type V.K., 480 B.H.P. each, with
direct coupled dynamos.
Repeat 1 Unit, type V.K., 680 B.H.P. each, with
direct coupled dynamos.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:
TESTS ON ABOVE ENGINES.
1. Guaranteed Consumptions
2. Consumptions attained on official test by Gov-
ernment Testing ilurcau
3. Consumptions given by the Station officials after
running 6 months on load
B.H.P,
407.9
408
Waterfeed to boiler,
per B.H.P. Hour.
9.71 b.
9.11 b.
9.01 b.
Coal per
B.H.P. Hour.
1.231 b.
f
I.llb.
1.0951 b.
Haes 8 Eggers Ltd.
163 Clarence Street, Sydney


fgh
fgh
fgh
JShQ
COAT SWEATER
when working
or taking your
pleasure
The Coat Sweater will give you cosy comfort.
You see, it can be. worn under a coat, like a
vest, or without a coat at all, like the picture.
WHITE OR SILVER GREY-
PURE WOOL, WASHABLE AND UNSHRINKABLE ..
Please state your chest measure.
Ohest measure
Price
34 36 40 inches
18/6 19/6 21/-
PIKE
Toowoomba
LIMITED
LRISiiANZ
Townsville
A Hot Weather Trouble Avoided
TRUMILK (SKIM)
POWDER.
Place Powder on top cold water and beat with Egg Whisk for a minute. Result —
beautiful milk free from germs, suitable for all purposes.
NO MILK GOING SOUR, NO ICE NEEDED.
. . , ... Ask, your grocer for a small tin. .
Queensland Agents: WEBSTER & CO. LTD., Mary Street, Brisbane.
New South Wales Agents: FOGGITT JONES & CO. LTD., Sussex Street, Sydney.
IN
BANANA LAND
John Memonitcli, the venerable hatter
who has just filed a claim on the Federal
Treasury'for a trifling prospecting reward
of £15,000,000 or so for discovering gold at
Clermont in 1862, has been trying to collect
his dues from the Queensland Government
ever since fie made his find. So far his
chance has just been plain mud, without
even a color in it. The old man has been
for years the terror of the Queensland Mines
Department. Always civil, lie was as in-
evitable as the income tax. The news that
he has transferred his attentions to the
Federal authorities will cause many a thank-
ful official to reach for his liat and go joy-
ously out for a long hallelujah beer. A
fly in Memonitch’s ointment is “Davy”
DoWnes, of The Towers, who also claims the
Clermont reward .and has handed in some
thousands of folios in support of his claim.
The late Warden Cusack was officially cred-
ited with the discovery. And Davy, in his
turn, regarded him with a hatred which
even the grave could not lessen. Unlike
Memonitcli, who believes in official- methods.
Davy had great confidence in the power of
the press. Instead of Government depart-
ments lie haunted newspaper offices until
unhappy editors cursed the day they had
ever set, foot on the Northern goldfield.
Shoddy and Sham.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Deep in the coniines of Commerce, bounded
by borders of Trade,
Founded on infinite rottenness, builded of
timber decayed,
Shelter of humbug and hypocrite, harbor ot
smOoth-spoken Fraud,
Glittering beneath its encrusting of gilding
and tinsel and gaud, ' .
Bearing a banner that flaunteth, Here is
the mighty I Am, . j
Glory of latter-day nations, the city of
Shoddy and Sham !”
Serfs are its weariful workefs, helots who
sweat for a crust;
Shame is the lot of its women, bound to
the chariots of lust;
Proud as the gods are its princes, wealthy
as Midas they fare
Down in their cars through the avenues,
lords of the palace and lair;
Widely they levy their tribute —Leeds to
Masulipatam —
Black men and brown, men and yellow, work-
ing for Shoddy and Sham.
Hark to the voice of the statesman, asking
what course he shall steer
So that he mar not the making of flashy,
corruptible gear;
Hark to the voice of the pulpit—almost his
breath doth he. bate,
Yonder smug beneficed preacher, weighing
the chance of the plate:
“Lo, ye will render to Csesar, unto the utter-
most gram,
That which is Cmsar’s and Shoddy s, here in
the city of Sham.”
Out of the mud and the midden, lo! they
have rescued a rag,
Torn it and spun it and wove it, put it up
then for a flag;
Brass have they cunningly moulded into an
image at Brum,
Sent it out then to the heathen, packed in a
cargo of rum ; _ .
Mission men potent in saving, idols alluring
that damn —
These are the tokens of Empire, firstlings
of Shoddy and Sham!
Children that pine in the hovel, infants that
droop in the slum,
These are the gifts on the altar, victims un-
witting and dumb ;
Men with the pallor of phthisis, passing to
left and to right;
Girls with the red of Astarte thronging the
streets in the night;
Palaces gay where the hopeless kindle fresh
life with the dram,
These be the marks that betray ye, cities of
Shoddy and Sham!
Sprung like a venomous fungus out of'.thb
rot in the dawn
Rose up the ominous city covering the land
' with her spawn;
All in her glamor I see her, making of Man-
hood a ware,
Turning the glory of Woman into a lure and
a snare;.
Heedless of ruin that swells in a torrent no
rnortal may dam —
God! Send them a light to their' darkness,
cities.of Shoddy and Sham!
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, June 13, 1914.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
After the question of the hour (who is to
succeed Governor Macgregor V) comes the
query whether Chief Justice Cooper' will
be the next Chancellor of the Queensland
University. The odds are on him.
Our vice-regalities have spent a fairly
busy week. They have appeared at several
society shows, and to-day his Ex. presented
bagpipes tied with the Macgregor tartan
to the Ithaca cadets, who were unable to
retaliate under the Articles of War. At
the same time. Lady Macgregor, at the South
Brisbane Cricket Ground, set a fete going
in aid of the cr&che and kindergarten. The
most striking part of this show was the
numerous bouquets that changed hands.
Mayoress Jenkinson passed one to Lady
Mac, Mayoress Allen (South Brisbane) gave
another to the Vision, and the Paget child
handed a third to Mrs. Jenkinson. Then
the Jenkinson child passed over something
made by the kindergarten kiddies to little
THE MYSTERIOUS SEX.
“ What's she doin', dad?"
“ Thinkin', my son."
"Can't ladies think with their clothes on, dad?"
Honor Paget. I don’t know what it was,
but it wasn’t a bomb. We’re saving all our
bombs for the Cookandidates.
To-night the Chiel is opening the new
School of Engineering at the University. A
cold-hearted Senate decided that this. act
was for men only, which means that it is
a dry-hash, speechifying affair. . This will
be one of the Governor’s last tricks at th,e,
Chancellor’s wheel. * His successor wifi
very likely find himself called upon to open
the' new Medical school, which is to be the
public recognition of the Macgregor’s ser-
ices to the State. This by his own request.
Last night the Brisbane Club fed the
about-to-quit plenipotentiary at a farewell
feast. This, also, was a mere-man show,
so I can’t give you anything beyond the mere
fact.
The Mayor’s garden party on Thursday
was like i 4 struggles for the early doors
rolled into one. A queue of citizens reached
from, the gates of Bowen Park right to the
tramline. In the scuffle wives were torn
from husbands and mothers from daughters,
and they were mostly announced at the tail-
end of somebody .else’s card. It is particu-
larly galling, Thargomindah, to be greeted as
Mrs. Smithjones when you are really Mrs.
Plantagenetpercy. Mrs., Jenkinson wore
brown crepe de Chine, and a spray
of mauve orchids to her bodice. The Chiel
and Lady Macgregor, the Arthur Morgans,
Bigby Denham ( without his beard), the Vv.
H. Barneses, the J. G. Appels, “Jimmy” Blair,
Minister Tolmie and his two sisters, a ser-
ried array of Mr. and Mrs. Alderman, and a
straggling mass of General Public all
waggled hands with the Mayor and the
Mayoress.
The struggle served a trinity of purposes.
First, it enabled the Jenkinsons to make
their first public appearance, as it were;
second, it made shift as a welcome to Pre-
mier Denham; and, thirdly, it served to an-
nounce that Bowen Park was. to be.kept for
the public. The land, which is just opposite
the General Hospital, was originally portion
of the Acclimatisation Gardens, now moved
to another part of the town. The National
Association, finding itself somewhat cramped,
bought some and wanted to buy the lot,
but the Town Council thought otherwise, and
secured the area itself, so that another cool,
green lung has been added to the city.
At the University Sports Union Ball on
Wednesday, Miss Sully and Miss Lord were
the only two buds to bow to vice-regality.
All the girls looked picturesque, and there
were partners in plenty, so that everything
w T as a commendable success. The Chiel and
Lady Mac., with the Talbot aide one pace to
the rear, arrived early and stayed late. All
the Professors lined up, the married ones
fortified by their wives. Mrs. Morgan Baker
came as proxy for her husband, who was
entertaining influenza at hojcne.
Mrs. Pattinson and Mrs. Morgan Baker
gave a 150-strong tea party at C-afe Eschen-
hagen on Monday afternoon. Mrs. Whit-
aker, a nice little Englishwoman with a
cheerful sense of humor, who is staying with
Mrs. Baker, was a section of the enjoyable-
ness. Barbara Sisley delivered three or
four recitations, and in between times a
string band fought the conversation.
On Tuesday Mrs. G. W. Power fed a
party at the same cafe, and on Wednesday
Mrs. Buchanan held a big reception there, m
honor of her pretty daughter, Yda, who is tc
be married next week to E. E. Edwards, son
of the legislator. Mrs. Buchanan, who has
an artistic dress sense that her three daugh-
ters have inherited, wore a very pretty grey
gown finished with lace, and topped off with
a black plumed hat. Daughter Yda wore
champagne silk crepe and a blue silk hat, and
Mrs. McEncroe, another daughter, w y ore a.
frock of palest grey pink and a little flower-
wreathed hat, also pink. Mrs. Tom Power,,
the one-more daughter, lives in Sydney.
On Tuesday night most of the female half
of Brisbane society hurried to St. John’s.
Cathedral' to cluck over the Love-Williams-
wedding. The bride wore white satin and.
a beautifully embroidered, veil, and her two-
bridesmaids, Miss Hilda Love (her sister)
and Miss Kathleen Lilley, resembled nice,
large pink roses in satin coverings of delect-
able tint. Their black caps were made of se-
quined net, edged with tulle. Bridegroom Mer-
vyn Williams was borne up by a male repre-
sentative of the house of Love and by Ewan
Spence. Immediate relatives and a few very
old friends were entertained afterwards at
the Love homestead. Last week Dr. and
Mrs. Love welcomed a couple of hundred
guests at a big At Home. The latest good
idea is to feed your friends before, instead
of after, the wedding.
Mrs. Parnell, who is a 8.A., and was a
lecturer at the Queensland Uni. before she
took to matrimony, lectured at the Womens
•Club on Thursday night on “Literature,
especially of the drama. She advocated the
establishment of a Repertory Theatre. All
the womenites listened attentively, but they
made up for it later when they informally
discussed the newest thing in fripperies.
Lorna Lukin, the daughter of Judge
Lukin, emphasised her newly-acquired full-
time skirt and hair-on-top by giving a jolly
little dance at her home at Hendra last week.
On Friday night Mr. and Mrs. Tom Wool-
nough entertained a number of youthful
-dancers at Ravenswood. The whirl was in
honor of daughter Dorothy, who made her
debut along with her chum, Lorna Voss.
Both girls wore pretty white dresses and car-
ried bouquets.
The last Dufault concert on Monday night
-filled the Exhibition Hall. Paul made a
little speech at the finish and gracefu y
threw kisses at the audience, whereat at least
Ir> women attempted to look self-conscious.
Pauline Bindley wore a pretty blue and gold
crown and sang very sweetly, and violinist
Toy and Harold Whittle came m foi a
share of the mighty applause.
. Tatt.’s Races to-day were a success from
the racegoer’s point of view, but deadly un-
interesting as regards dress. Only about six
women on the lawn looked smart, and, as
usual. Mrs. Ned Tully, Mrs. Stuart Hyslop
and Mrs. Stanley Chapman were three of
t^Cm ’ Yours affectionately, _
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“C.R.” : The other day a young friencb of
mine, named Edward George Busbridge, was
married at Irvinebank ■ (N.Q.) to a lady
slightly his junior. He is only 70, and has
no more than 40 grandchildren and one
great grandchild, all native born. I suppose
it’s the awful climate again.
At several- public functions in Queensland
latelv the diners have noted with joy the
announcement: “No after-dinner speeches.
Apparently Bananaland is following the
example of the U. States, where this type
of oration is being abandoned —strange to
say, at the initiative of public men. Need-
less to add no Queensland public man would
suggest such a reform; he leaves that to his
hearers.
Major “Joe” Darvall, just promoted and
transferred to the Instructional Staff, has
been acting for some time as Deputy-Quar-
termaster General. He is a son of a late
District Court Judge in Queensland, who
was a member of an old Sydney family.
“Joe” was for a long time staff-officer in
Townsville, and has held similar jobs in
Westralia and Victoria. He is among the
few senior staff-officers who have not seen
active service. Otherwise he is known
among his acquaintances as the man who,
since he made his first appearance in
Queensland, has never been known to smile.
Some years ago he married one of Bris-
bane’s extra-special beauties, a daughter
of the late A. J. Cooper, for years manager
of the Bank of ’Asia in the North, and got
the laugh on some of them that way.
There is hope for Roma, apparently. _ B.
J. Weger, a borer with American experience,
said recently -
There is no . doubt Roma is soon going to be an oil-
field. I know a great many wells in Ohio and
Indiana that were gas producers before they turned
out to be small gushers, producing 5000 barrels a
day. Roma formations —sandstone, shale, streaks of
coal overlying gas and oil—are much the same as we
have in the oil States. I think Roma is going to be
a second Pennsylvania. :
Of course Weger and his friends own some
500 acres of boring rights near the coming
oil town; but it is pleasant to hear some
hopeful talk, all the same.


\
illi
i' i
;
- ’
m
%
jT*w
sg
m
mm.
■ ■
>-
; /
:■
is
/#•
A
•',
~4
! S r
NA« a. Wt“ v (o
QUEENSLAND
The Riviera of the Commonwealth and
The Winter Playground of Australia.
HEALTHY AND DELIGHTFUL CLIMATE. * ENCHANTING SCENERY.
NOW is the time to migrate from the Winter Cold and Fog of
the South Land to the Genial Warmth and Sunshine of
QUEENSLAND.
The Exquisite Beauty of the Northern State's Eastern
is unsurpassed in any part of the World.
Descriptive Pamphlets and full particulars regarding the Tourist
Attractions and Resources of the State can be obtained on applica-
tion or by letter to
THE QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT INTELLIGENCE
and TOURIST BUREAU,
7. a TROEDSON, Director. QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.


HEALTH
after illness
When disease and weakness
have ravished the system,
Nature needs something
more than tonics and stim-
ulants if health is to be
restored. At such a time
TRADE MARK.
SCOTT’S Emul-
sion is inval-
uable. It builds
up the wasted
tissues, enriches
the blood, revi-
talizes wasted
nerve cells and
quickly restores
the vigour,
plumpness and
strength of glo-
rious health.
But, only genuine
SCOTTS
Emulsion
can be relied upon for cer-
tain results. Therefore, be
sure to see the “ fishman ” on
the package the sign of
SCOTT purity and strength.
LACTOBAGILLIN E.
The Bacillary treatment of Bacterial and Fermen-
tative affections of the alimentary canal. Lnctobacil-
line pits the vigorous lactic ferment against the
less resistant organisms of decomposition, with the
result that the latter are immediately destroyed.
Lactobacilline is prepared under the scientific
supervision and control of
PROFESSOR METCHNIKOFF.
It is prepared in tablets to be eaten with meals,
and by checking intestinal putrefaction exerts a
remarkable influence towards the attainment of
perfect health. It is of special value in all affec-
tions of the digestive tract, auto-intoxicatiori, colites,
intestinal catarrh, chronic dyspepsia, etc. Every
cylinder of tablets bears the W'ords:
“Lactobacilline preparee par la Societe le Ferment
Seul Fournisseur du Professor Metchnikoff,” with-
out which none are genuine. Lactobacilline is sold
in boxes containing eight cylinders of Tablets —price,
ss. fid. —arid can be ordered through any chemist, or
obtained direct from the Depot Societe le Ferment,
Australasia Chambers, 406-14 Queen St., Bris’ ane, or
Branches: Vickery's'Chambers, 82 Pitt St., Sydney;
Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen St., Melbourne; Eller -
shaw’s Buildings, Cliff St., Fremantle; Sineeton’s
Buildings, Quoen St., Auckland; from where all
information can be obtained.
•45
Every
rf*ndyO\lC**
For
Purpose
“THREE IKT-ONE” OIL is
unrivalied for cleaning Gramo-
P rones, for lubricating Sewing
machines, and for polishing
Furniture.
It makes Gun Barrels, Motor
Oar Mount ngs, Ranges, and
Metal Surfaces -indoors or out
—rust-proof!
55
is a concent rate 1, highly refined
article of special quality.
It is a perfect lubricant!
Leading Kinematoraph Ope-
rators U’e any other.
"or will Phonograph p op e
They know "3-in-One” is Best!
Sold everywhere in Bottles
and Handy Oil Can.
A Post-CTd will bring Free
Sample Bottle together with
v 3-ia-One” Oil Booklet.
REID AND REID,
Australasian Agents,
82 A, Harris St.,
Wellington,
N.Z.
r
m
Business Notices.
OPEAKERS, Lecturers, Writers are offered expert
assistance at moderate fees Prospectus post free
on application to the Secretary, London General In- 1
formation Service, 111 St. Stephen's House, Westmin-
ster, London, England.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
, „ , «>r Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined). Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Pills of any of the Australian States or New
Zealand. SWAT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine!
Directors—The lion. A. IV. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; The Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputv-Chairman ; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. ; The lion. 11. J. Black.M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. K. Winchombe', M.TV.C. ; Adrian
Knox, Esq., K.C. ; Sir Alex. MacCormick, M.D. General Manager and Actuarv: Richard Teece, F.I.A ,
F.F.A.. F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. 11. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
i
IV Bostock shoes, the feet always feel beautifully
light and comfortable; and the wearer is ready
for a garden party or any snarl function. So
perfect are their fitting properties, that the Shoes
positively feci as - though they have been made
specially. Kvery .time they are worn the wearer
experiences a sense of satisfaction, wonderfully like
that enjoyed in a smart Parisian gown; and this
feeling is intensified by knowing that the shoes are
exclusive in style and exquisitiyelv finished.
IS i
linstocks are the,cream of imported shoes. Special
shipments have recently arrived at the leading stores,
and ladies should call b.fore the choicest styles are
sold. " ‘ -
fghfgh
Style 589
How to be Beautiful.
By RITA MOYA.
It is not every woman’s good fortune to be endowed by Nature with fine features and
a flawless complexion, but nowadays it is possible to make the plainest face attractive, and
that too in the privacy of one’s home, without recourse to beauty specialists, which usually
involve expensive treatments and much loss of time. I shall endeavor to show you in tlie-
following lines how much may be done in this direction bv any woman of ordinary intelli-
gence When facial applications are necessary, use only the pure ingredients just as they
come to the chemist himself. Do not allow yourself to be persuaded into buying some-
cheap ready-made preparation instead. Any chemist will gladly obtain the original con-
centrated ingredients for you, if you insist, and although he may not have them in stock,
you will be well advised to wait while he orders them for you. The improvement in your
appearance will be ample compensation for any trouble taken to obtain these simple and
harmless beautiiiers.
Beauty in Breathing— A great deal can be
done towards brightening the eyes by system-
atic breathing for 10 minutes each morning
and evening. Breathe slowly and deeply to
the fullest capacity of the lungs. You should
stand erect by an window. The corsets
should not be worn during this exercise.
About Shampooing.—Even the best shampoo
is somewhat dryiifg. and if the hair is nH:
naturally oily 1 suggest that just before the
shampoo you apply olive oil to the scalp, rub-
bing it into the hair roots vigorously. Then
use pure stallax for the shampoo. Dissolve a
teaspoonful in a cup of hot water. This will
leave the hair very clean, soft and fluffy.
An Instantaneous of face
powder, use a simple bn ion fnade from one
ounce of cleminite and four teaspoonfuls of
water. This lotion will foiie and clear the
skin, and acts as a protection against sun and
wind. A little applied with the finger-tips
instantly gives the skin a delightful “bloomy”
appearance. No powder is necessary, and the
result lasts all day' long under the most try-
ing conditions. ;
To Permanently -Remove Superfluous Hair. —
It is a simple matter ‘to remove a downy
growth of hair temporarily, but to remove it
permanently is quite another matter. It is a
pity that it is not more generally known that
powdered pheminol may be used for this pur-
pose. Apply it directly to the hair. The
v-eemrr l ended treatment is designed not merely
to instantly remove the hair, but also to event-
ually kill the roots entirely. Any chemist
should be able to supply you with an ounce
of pheminol, which \ quantity should be suffi-
cient.
The Real Cause of Most Bad Complexions."
t Is an accepted fact that no truly beautiful
■mplexion ever '■"me out of jars and bottles,
ad the longer one uses cosmetics the worse
le complexion becomes. Skin, to be healthy,
■ust breath'\ It also must expel, through the
ires, its share of the body’s effete material,
1 reams and powders clog. the pores, in-
erfering both with elimination and breathing,
f more women understood this there would
>e fewer self-ruined complexions. If they
vould use ordinary mercolised wax instead of
■osmetlcs they would have natural, healthy
•omplexions. This remarkable substance is
not absorbed by the skin; its action is just
the opposite. The skin repels mercolised wax,
and at the same time throws off all imperfec-
tions. An exquisite new complexion peeps
out, quite free from any appearance of artifi-
ciality. Apply nightly, like cold cream, for a
week or two, washing it off in the morning.
About Hair Tonics. —Each week almost one
hears of some wonderful discovery for im-
proving the hair, and although this paragraph
may seem a little superfluous, an old-fashioned
•ecipe may come as a welcome change. One
thing about- it is that it will grow hair, and
also prevent it falling out. From your chem-
ist get an original package of boranium. to
this add i-pint of bay rum. allow it to stand
in minutes, then add sufficient water to make
half a pint. Hub briskly into the scalp with
the fincer-tips and you will immediately ex-
perience that clean, tingling sensation which
is a sure sign of healthy action. [2
J E R
DAN’S LT
ALWAYS UP-TO-DATE IN AIL CINEMATOGRAPH SUPPLIES.
KELVIN
The .. .
Kelvin Generating Sets
and
Silent Empire Bioscopes
UNAPPROACHABLE-
UNBEATABLE.
We can fit you out. for a Permanent or
Travelling Show from . _ __
£4O
Why not Investigate the MONEY-MAKING ADVANTAGES of Moving Pictures ?
Ours is no bubble reputation. We have proved by merit the wisdom of our
choice of PICTURE SHOWMEN’S REQUISITES.
CALL OR WRITE. WE ARE OUT TO PLEASE YOU.
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ONTHE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of "Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same end address must appear on MSS. No
liabilitft is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MSS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
C.A.M.: The immigrant lady who told
the housemistrcs3 woman that she (the i.l, afore-
said) didn’t think there was any sweating in Eng-
land —anyway, she’d never perspired till she came
to Australia —has arrived at this office six times in
the last three months. We can only hope she’ll
bring a new joke with her next time she ca 115....
H.M.C.: The joke is as old as hair. . . .Peak Hill:
The right to declare war is one of the British King’s
prerogatives.... Dundas: The detective office in Syd-
ney reports all correct. .. .A.C.: Afraid the picture
of a cow eating a cabbage in the garden of an
infuriated Chinaman would be too exciting for our
aged subscribers. .. .0.F.5.: llumor in it, but not
enough to carry the idea over a page.... Tom M.:
Steft'ani’s address is Bank of N.S.W., London....
Con. Reader: Can supply you with a copy of the
back number containing the item at a cost of
2s. 6d Marry M.S.: Manuscript buried. Not a
drum was heard. .. . F.A.E.: We will be as merciful
as we can. It is plain, dull rhyming. ... Billy K.:
No use for the mayor. No use for any mayor....
H.P.M.: The memorials can't possibly be worse than
your humorous verses about tiigm,:L. n O.: Piffle
... .Jasper:’ We attach herewith pur sincere curse.
The manuscript isn’t suitable. .'I . Jas. P. McE.:
Your song isn’t likely to sfart a revolution against
anything. . ...Snooker: Too rough altogether....
F. 0.: Burglar sketch is a poor thing and not worthy
of you. Too indefinite, and the humor is terribly
strained. .. .W.R : But are you the original mustard-
plaster bard? We doubt it. . . .H.S.;: To be effective
these loverlike stocktakings of a lady’s charms should
be done with exquisite care. You carelessly include
a pair of “gleaming thighs.”.. How do you know?
....Laurence F. : Too late arid too bad —also, too
foolish. .. .R.G.H.: Good idea, but you haven’t
worked 'it up attractively.... C.W.C.: No use at all
(Hobart): Cannot illustrate tripe. .. .The
Wizard: No magic in them. . . .C.B.A. : It was a
decent '-try, anyhow.... W.F. (Glenferrie) : Stop It
Now !.... W.1L8.: Thanks. We'll speak to “Medi-
cos”.... Alligator: No; there are no alligators
roaming in Queensland, nor anywhere else in Aus-
tralia. ... Alligator: You should have been around
earlier when the shindy was raging about eye color.
Can't start it again.... Stacey: Write to G. V. F.
Mann, National Art Gallery (Sydney). He may
brow a local authority (if there is one). . . . A. Shark:
It’s a good par, but you haven’t made the position
clear. Did the Sydney co. buy out the other pub, or
did it try to wrench the license from the present
holder? Also, was the application opposed? Send
fuller particulars, . . .C.R.-i Not worth while now, even
if you are correct. According to yourself you are not
sufethat you are cch- ci. . . .L.H.M.: As it is fully
a fortnight since we explained (for the 18,76Gth time)
that payment for paragraphs is fnade on receipt by
the accountant of the clippings, or the date, page and
column in which they appeared, we feel it necessary
to repeat it on this occasion. But this is the last
time this week.. . rG.B.S.: If Willie Watt does enter
Federal politics, there won’t be the joy in the camp
that you seem to expect. Watt was a success in
Lor.don .the other day, both a? a speaker and as a
figurehead. Many of the Conservatives, a-weary of
Bonar Law (who for dullness and incapacity to in-
spire appears to be a neat mixture of Cook and
Wade), ooenlv expressed the wish that they could
get a leader like Watt ; just as a few years previously
Maxse and other prominent Tories confessed to a
hankering after Deakin. •'Watt’s head has never been
quite the sairie-size since. If he won Ballarat for
Liberalism, and Liberalism, by some miracle, won
throughout Au§tfSlia, there would be no denying him
Cabinet rank. But his preferment would madden the
faithful old toilers who have stood by the party in
all its vagaries, and with hound-like docility have
been Freetrade and Protectionist, anti- and pro-De-
fence, pro- and anti-Socialist, and all the rest, as
expediency demanded. Furthermore, his arrival would
inevitably mean the deposition of Joe Cook after a
decent interval. The Parliamentary Liberals can’t
keep Watt out,of the Reps, if he should decide to
go there Their best hope lies in the probabilitv that
he Will not consider the adventure worth while. To
drop a fairlv. safe billet, like that of Premier of Vic-
toria, 'for the prospect of office in a burst concern like
Federal Liberalism seems rather like paying a sove-
reign for the chance of winning a raffle wherein the
first prize is two penn’orth of tripe.... F.M.: Not a
glimmer of interest in it.
~ “Pickhandle” : Minister of Defence Millen
has proved himself the most progressive and
best'Australian of Joe Cook’s scratch team;
yet his Department has been completely
apathetic in the matter of establishing rifle
clubs. Here’s an instance. By way of
doing our little bit of what we reckoned
Australian citizenship called for, 60 of us
signed a requisition for the establishment
of a rifle club in our district. That was in
August, 1913. At the end of three months’
anxious suspense an officer arrived to make
a report. After two more weary months had
leaked out of the hour-glass the necessary
permits for firing rights, etc., arrived. We
obtained certain signatures, as required, and
sent them back. In the ensuing unseemly
haste, the site, which was a temporary com-
mon, has been cut up, balloted for, and con-
firmed as private, propputy. Exactly how
long it will take to get a range fixed up now
is a matter very difficult to arrive at. Of
course, I admit that! big, national questions,
such as the wearing, of kilts, are everything
that is important. The making capable
citizens effective as a fighting force by means
of rifle clubs can stand aside indefinitely.
Anyhow, that’s what Yogi Samsu, the in-
telligent cook at our' pub, told me.
- “N.M.8.”: A ‘‘Political Point” (B.
23/4/Y4) lays the blame of terrorising and
assaulting the white women of Suva upon
the imported Hindu. I acquit Ram Lai on
that charge. Either lie fears the heavy hand
of the Sahib too much, or our particular
style of beauty doesn’t appeal to him. I’ve
lived six years in Fiji, and have not heard
of one .authenticated case of annoyance to
or assault upon a white woman by an
Indian. Any white woman who lives in
Fiji will tell you that she has no fear at all
of her Indian houseboys, though she is
often for hours alone with them, and would
be completely at their mercy. A houseboy
is often, -from sheer necessity, compelled to
act as sick nurse and personal attendant
to his Memsahib; yet in no instance have
I heard of one overstepping the bounds of
respect. It is the Fijian we fear ; and the
.offences The Bulletin spoke of have since
' been traced to a Fijian half-caste. All the
same, I don’t hold a brief for Bruce Smith’s
colored brother, who is usually the personi-
fication of ancient and horrible vices (the
cheap imported kind is, anyhow) ; and his
unprintable views and treatment of the
women of his own race and class make his
behavior towards white women the more
remarkable.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
" THE. CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
FIFTY-SEVENTH REPORT OP
The Royal Bank of Queensland Limited
The Directors have pleasure in submitting to the Shareholders the Fifty-seventh Report, with a State-
ment of the Assets and Liabilities of the Bank and the Auditors’ Report:
The Net Profits for the half-year, after deducting Rebate on Bills, Interest
on Deposits, Land Tax, providing for Contingencies, payment of all
c charges and reducing valuation of bank furniture and fittings
amounted to.. .. .. .. .. . .. £16,96-1 10 2
to which is to be added the amount carried forward from last half-year .. 1,255 5 9
Giving an available balance of
Which has been distributed as follows: —
To Dividend for the half-year at the rate of 5J per cent, per annum on
all shares
~ Interest on Capital prepaid (at the rate of the dividend)
~ Income Tax . . . .
~ Reserve Fund. . . . . . . . ...
~ Balance carried forward
£18,219 15 11
£14,45!) 0 5
510 4 .'!
798 7 0
1,000 0 0
1,451 18 3
£18,219 15 11
AGDREOATE BALaNCE-SHEET of the ROYAL HANK OF QUEENSLAND LIMITED, 3lsi March, 1914
LIABILITIES.
Capital—
-69,999 .-to Ordi-
nary Shares . . £629,991 0 0
L s uncalled
Liability of £2
1 Os. per Share.. 171,997 10 0
£154.992 10 0
Capital/ ’ prepaid
being uncalled
liability on Ordi-
nary Shares .. 18,861 0 0
7080 £lO Prefer-
ence Shares fully
paid . . . . 70,800 0 0
£511,651 10 0
Reserve Fund . . 77,500 0 0
Profit and Loss . . 18.219 15 11
: £010,87 4 5 11
Bills payable 18,299 6 1
Deposits and other liabilities . . 1,617,237 14 2
£2,275,911 6 5
ASSETS.
Com on hand and
cash at bankers £620,337 7 7
Bullion 9,990 3 7
Australian notes .. 72,990 10 0
-overnment stock 77,977 0 3
- £781,300 1 0
Bank premises, furniture, etc. . . 73,876 8 5
dills discounted and all other debts
due to the bank .. .. 1,420,734 10 7
£2,275,911 6 5
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT, 31st March, 1914.
Cr.
To Salaries, rent and
other exjJenses at
Head Office and 27
Branches . . .. £ 14,819 16 2
~ Interest paid and
accrued on fixed de-
posits, rebate and ex-
change paid .. 25,846 17 0
£40,666 13 2
„ Balance 18,219 15 11
£58,886 9 1
By Balance brought forward . .
„ Gross profit for the half-year
.£1,255 5 9
57,031 3 4
£58,886 9 1
RKSERVE FUND,
To Balance
..£78,500 0 0
£78.500 -O'- O'
B y Balance invested in Government
Stock ' . . . . ' . . £77,500 , 0 0
„ Proposed transfer from Profit and
Loss Account .. .. .. 1,000 0 0
£78,500 0 0
/Audited and found correct
GEO. FRED SCOTT , B.A. (London)
W. H. PARKER
Rrishnnp. Anril 9. IPJJ.
fgh
TH. UNMACK, Chairman.
KDWD. D. DAY. General Mgpagev.
Don’t be a ‘Wisher
Some mep keep on wishing they had an Onoto Self-filling
Pen so hard—that if the pen grew with tlie wish they
co'uldn’t see it all.
The Onoto .does not leak. It FILLS ITSELF in a Hash
without any filler. A, perfectly-balanced fountain pen- British
made throughout.
Quit wishing—Get an
ĥ
Self-Filling - •
Safety Fountain
fgh
Price 12/- and upwards at all stationers,
stores, jewellers, etc.
Booklet about the Onolo Pen free
on application to Thos. Du La
Rue & Co., Ltd., 259 Bunhili
Row, E.C., or-the Austra-
lasian Representative,
Norman B^ker,
50 York Street,
Svdnev.
fgh
fghfgh
IMPORTANT
For those
who requite
a larger pen
with a very
flexible nib,a
rpecial model
the new G-
—has been put ou tlie market.
It is exceptional value for the
money. Try this new Gat
your stationer’s Also ask him
lor Onotoelnk, the best for
fountain and all other pens.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
flent Brewery, Sydney
HEAR MIvSCHA ELMAN
the Wizard o f the Bow!
fgh
fgh
fgh
fgh
fgh
fghfgh
MISCHA ELMAN.
Does the sensuous music of the violin fascinate
you V Hear Mischa Elman play it and you will
realise its charm more fully, perhaps, than you have
ever done before. . ..
Mis delivery, his expression, his independence of
conception are indeed marvellous. His playing is
realistically reproduced by
"HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
RECORDS.
Mischa Elman, now in Sydney for a brief season, is
undoubtedly the , most sensational of the world’s
musicians.'
Mischa Elman Records.
10-inch Records, 5/-
12-inch Records, 7/0.
07927 Serenade (-Schubert).-
07909 (ft) Gavotte (G-ossee).
(b) Deutscher Tanz (Dit-
tersdorf).
07908 Introduction Rondo Ca-
priccioso (Saint-Saens).
07905 Melodic (Tsehftikowsk.v).
07900 Nocturne (Chopin).
<07904 Souvenir de Moscow
(Weiniawski).
07907 Espagnol (Brail)
Sold ;by accredited “His Master’s Voice” dealers everywhere.
Record lists, instrument catalogue and name of nearest dealer on request.
Sole Concessionaires for
THE GRAMOPHONE CO., LTD.,
163 PITT STREET —SYDNEY.
You
know
by
this
His
Masters
voice
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
of New
South Wales
Limited
Funds under Administratip.n, Upwards of £3,200,000.
;>•>■->?*. Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Executors, Trustees, Attorneys, Agents, etc
Cost of Estate Administration Largely Curtailed under this Company’s Method.
AMPLE SECURITY AND EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT ASSURED.
Write for Pull Particulars, sent Post Free.
17 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. a. perceval Bedford, Manager.
Fko.Step
One Step
The Dancing Success of 1914.
UNCLE’S HOLIDAY
by HERBERT de PINNA.
One Step or
iwo
F ' "F
e r
r g-
¥ 6
8"
Price,
2/= nett
Send
Its quaintly humorous melody is infectious, and catches the ear at once. There s a lilt in its catchy rhythm
that sets your feet moving. It’s simply great. Makes one of the best One Steps ever written, and
equally good for the Two Step.
for* a Copy To-day, land you will be well pleased, for everybody likes it.
To Orchestral Conductors.— Cut out tins act and mail it to us with; up-to-date programme, and we will send you a set of Orchestral parts (7 and
A: , > '{: Piano) this piejce, FREE.
* ~ ’* |
‘TfObe had of all fKCusicsellers or from the Publishers—r
276-8 COi HNS STREET, MELBOURNE. Adelaide, bendigo. geelong


Amusements,
R
ICKAItDS' TIYOX.I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
SPECIAL ADA REEVE MATINEES, i,
WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY AT 2.30. .V
ADA REEVE.
ADA REEVE.
The Greatest Comedienne in the World. ,
Supported by Full Company of World’s Star Artists.
Rox Plan: THEATRE & NICHOLSON’S.
I von
Governing
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
BETH TATE, the Californian Girl.
DUSTY RHODES, “The Caruso of Vaudeville.”
THE FOUR VAGABONDS. JOSH DIXON.
ED. E. FORD. W. TALLEUR ANDREWS.
GILDAY & FOX.
WINIFRED WARD, the Immaculate Boy.
VIVIEN TALLEUR & FRED READE.
Plan at Allan’s.
PRICES—4s., 35., 25., Is.
ARTISTS APPEARING AT
IVO L I TREAT RE, ADELAIDE
THIS WEEK.
W. C. FIELDS, the Silent Humorist.
ELLIOTT SAVONAS.
VERA ROCHDALE. IRMA CARON.
GERTRUDE GEBEST. CLARDY BROS.
THE SIX CAMERONS. THE GILLS.
RUSSELL CAR, England’s Foremost Ventriloquist.
I V O L 1 T II E A T R E, P E R T 11.
HARRY RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Governing Director: HUGH 1), McINTOSH.
THE CREOS. LAZERN.
TWO PIIILMERS. ALEX. BLACK.
WELCH & CAR BASSE.
ARTHUR DON & PATTY. ARDO.
TOM DAWSON. BENSON & BELLE.
PRICES: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. NO EXTRA FEES.w
|_J E R MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., presents
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in the Queen of Viennese Comic Operas,
GIPSY LOVE.
The most entrancing musical treat of 1914.
PLANS AT PALING’S
&
T A I
N .
present
II A It 1! Y L A U I) E E,
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Season: —
HIS MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Commencing MONDAY, JULY 6.
New Zealand Tour: —
Commencing MONDAY, AUGUST 17.
HARRY LAUDER TOUR!
Sole Direction J. & N. TAIT,
The Auditorium, Melbourne.
AD EEP II 1 TIIEA T R E. SYI)N E Y.
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY. LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE QUEEN OF THE
REDSKINS.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT.
ANOTHER GREAT PRODUCTION.
IEORGE WILLOUGHBY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC
COMBINATION, in
rHE BAD GIRL OF THE FAMILY.
• Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Nicholson’s.
E> AI.A C E TIIEAT I! E. S~Y 7> NE Y.
Direction DIX AND BAKER.
THE PHOTO-PLAY OF THE HOUR.
THE SIL K N C E 0 E
DEAN MAITL A N D.
FRASER’S LATEST SUCCESS.
Prices: 1/6, 1/- and 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
M ATIONAL THEATRE, SYDNEY’.
I '■ Governing Director .... BEN J. FULLER.
At 2.30, VAUDEVILLE TWICE DAILY, at 8.
/- & 6d. BARGAIN MATINEES DAILY. 1/ & 6d.
ID. BLONDELL, assisted by KATHERYNE CAINE,
in his one-act scream, “The Lost Boy.”
JUNO SALMO, the Dandy Devil.
TROUTS, “the Human Submarines.”
CARON A. WESTIN & HILL.
LITTLE MOLLIE. ZENO & MANDELL,
Evening Prices as' Usual.
’Phone: Central 906 for Reservations.
II K Jj I T T I, E T II E A T R E
CASTLEREAGII STREET, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING at 8.10 Sharp.
•. HUGH C. BUCKLER & Miss VIOLET PAGET
ve pleasure in presenting the most famous of all
the Old World Comedies,
HE SCHOOL FOR SCANDAL-
PLAN PALING’S. DAY SALE, WHITE ROSE.
> T JAMES’S HALL, SYDNEY.
► Commencing NEXT THURSDAY, 25th INST.
Reappearance of Mr.
LEXANDER WATSON
(“The Incomuarable Watson.” — Me,lb. Age),
Who will onen a Short Series, of Recitals with
“THE MERCHANT OF VENICE”
(For the First Time in Sydney).
Reserved Seats, 3/-; Family Tickets (admitting
nr), 10/- Plan at Paling's.
• CARLYLE SMYTIIE.
OWN H.A LL, SYDNEY.
I GREATEST VIOLINIST IN THE WORLD.
[ISCHA ELMAN
[TSCHA ELMAN
MISCHA ELMAN
MISCHA ELMAN
FOUR CONCERTS ONLY IN SYDNEY.
INDAY, JUNE 22 ; TUESDAY, JUNE 23, THURS-
DAY, JUNE 25; FRIDAY, JUNE 26.
WITH GRAND ORCHESTRA OF 72 PLAYERS.
Direction: Mr. JOSEPH BRADLEY.
;o the Charming Cantatrice, Mdlle. EVA GAUTHIER.
At the piano, Mr. PERCY KAHN.
New Zealand Tour: WELLINGTON, JULY 2 and 4;
AUCKLAND, JULY 7 and 8 ; DUNEDIN, JULY 13
and 14; TIMARU. JULY 15; CHRISTCHURCH,
JULY 18 and 20.
Direction GEORGE MUSGROVE.
| MPEBIAL SALON
D E Ij 1J X E
Direction BENDRODT & IRVING.
WHERE DANCING
t ii n i v 15 s.
SESSIONS DAILY.
’Phone, 682 William Street.
T
IIE Australian M tgazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Trice Gd.
Amusements.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
X HE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES.
■ In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC. COLONIAL. EMPRESS,
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world's best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
"GREATER: J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
"P II E OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PTCTERIiS, LTD.
“BITOT OF AM.."
E A MIL Y M ATI N E E—SA TU RDA Y.
DE GROEN’S VICE REGAL ORCHESTRA.
3d. to 2s. Plans at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
QLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
Til E i C E-SK ATI Tv G SEASON
ATTRACTIVE EXHIBITIONS OF FANCY SKATING
BY INTERNATIONAL SKATERS.
DAILY SESSIONS.
10 to 12 a.m. 3to 5 p.m. Bto 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION 2/- SKATES 6d.
’Phone. Glebe 492. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
g PEN C E It’S I. YCE U M. SYI) N E Y
THE WORLD’S BEST PICTURES.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE—WEDNESDAY, At 2.30.
A GREAT PROGRAMME, consisting of TOPICAL,
DRAMATIC, SCENIC and COMEDY SUBJECTS.
Prices : 1/6, 1/-& Gd. Plan at Paling’s & White Rose.
X ™RI KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
1 Sole Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON. |
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATID ATTAINT LEO - JAN * MISCHRL
iUAUJJ ALLAJN OHERNIAVSKY.
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
(Conductor, FRANK ST. LEGER).
PRICES: 10/6, 7/6, 5/- PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
Direction W. ANGUS MACLEOD.
Manager HOWARD EDIE.
|_J HI! MAJESTY’S THEATRE. .MELBOURNE.
■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
First Production in Melbourne of the Sensational Play,
SI3A. L E D OEDIi It S .
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 65., 45., 2s. and Is.
X" HKAT It E ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, L’rn.
• 1
Last Nights of FRED NIBLO and JOSEPHINE
COHAN, in
NEVER SAY DIE.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls. 4/- ; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan's.
riATIE Best Stories written in Australia
J. appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price Od.
Amusements.
P KINCKSiS’S XII HATRE, MKIJtOURM!.
* Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
Managing Director: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY LTD.
Present the Stupendous Pantomime Extravaganza,
A L A CD D IN.
Prices: 5/-, 3/-. 2/- and 1/-, Plan at Pianola.
I.&N. T A I T
** present
HARO L \) HAUE 11,
MASTER PIANIST.
“A great musician. A genuine artist and an
amazing pianist—that is Harold Bauer.”
—London Daily Telegraph.
Melbourne Season now being given in the Auditorium.
Sydney Season in the Town Hall: —
JUNE 27, 29. JULY 1 and 2.
Sole Direction J. & N. TAIT.
MRLIiOIUXK REPERTORY THEATRE
AT THE THEATRE ROYAL.
SATURDAY, JUNE 20, 2.30 p.m.
Matinee Performance of BERNARD SHAW’S
FANNY’S FIRST PLAY.
SATURDAY, JUNE 27.
Matinee Performance' of IBSEN’S
AN ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE.
BOX PLANS at PIANOLA CO. and BOOKLOVERS
on MONDAY, 15th inst.
glJOlj X H E A X It E. M E E It O l it N IS.
EULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director BEN. J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON, 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
DUMITRESEN TROUPE. GRUET & GRUET.
JUGGLING NORMANS. BIFF & D’AMO.
CARLO MAI TRIO. LA STELLA TRIO.
TWO STOREYS & GEORGE ROWLEY.
Prices: 2/6, 2/-, 1/- & 6d. MatinGes: 1/6, 1/- & 6d.
MAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE
By Arrangement with
AMALGAMATED PICTURES LTD.
SPEN C ICR’S - PICT U RES.
EVERY EVENING.
Plan at Allan’s.
|y| E J, It O U It N E G LACIARII M.
ICE-SK A T I N G.
AFTERNOONS AT 3.
EVENINGS AT 7.45.
K S X’S PALAC E, 51 EURO UItN E.
mu best WEST’S PJ OT the best
OF ALL LIMITED; OF ALL
Managing Director: Mr. T.„*J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays.
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial-Enterprise in the World
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Anv Moving Picture Wortliv of Note ahvavs to be seen
at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Che-.go' every week.
Prices—6d. to _2s. Box Plan m Glen’s.
PAGES EOU HVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
“IRON AGE” Tools
for PROFITABLE
CULTIVATION.
m
:. - >
No. 6
Horsfe Hoe
and
Cultivator,
37/6
A very useful and noteworthy feature which is apparent in this' Cultivator is the
expanding lever, which enables furrows to be made from 14in. to 30in. in width, as
desired. These Cultivators are well built. No intricate mechanism to get out of
order, and cause inconvenience and delay. Farmers, Orchardists, etc., know the
necessity of careful and thorough Cultivating, and the using of a reliable machine.
“Iron Age” Implements are noted for suiting the requirements of tho.se on the land,
both as regards Price and Quality.
The addition of a wheel enables guiding to be done easily.
Teeth can he readily removed with a spanner, which is supplied.
This is only one of the many styles of Cultivating Implfehients we stock.
Send for Booklet describing “Iron Age” Tools.
I
H
m
m
m
****ofaf
“THE BARROW
for Rough Usage.”
Steel Barrows are unequalled for Foundries. Factories, etc., being made to stand
rough usage. The Tray has the advantage of not being Welded or Riveted, which
is an assurance of durability ; it can easily be detached and the Barrow used for
carrying bars of iron, etc. The handle is made of tubular steed, and passes round
in front of wheel, acting as a pivot, enabling the contents of the Barrow to be
dumped.
No. 4— Capacity 3 cubic feet of earth,
' 34/-
No. 4 J 4 3 cubic feet 457-
No. 10—Capacity 4001 b. to 5001 b.,
607-
Extra Trays—
No. 4, 15/-; 4%, 20/-; 10, 40/-
Our new 300-page Catalogue of Tools for the
Farm, Home and Workshop will be ready
shortly. Write for it.
Proprietary Ltd.
554«<56 & 582=88 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
D IK C n & CARROIiL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in nil the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Hfon Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
Edison
Diamond Point
Reproducer.
If you have an Amberola or any other type
of Edison Phonograph, excepting the Gem,
or if you are using Edison Blue Amberol
Records, you need a Diamond Point Repro-
ducer.
The Reproducer is the vital point of any
Phonograph, for upon this delicate mechan-
ism depends to a large extent the tone
quality of all sound-reproducing instruments.
It will make the New Blue Amberol Records
sound clearer, sweeter and fuller.
The introduction of the unbreakable Blue
Amberols has made possible the use of a
genuine diamond in place of the old sapphire
point. It is pormanent, of course, and inde-
structible, and being round, and highly
polished, it will neither wear itself nor the
Blue Records. Every Phonograph or Amberola
owner should have an Edison Diamond Point
Reproducer. Call on your nearest Edison
dealer, or write direct to us for full particu-
lars.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
364-372 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
ĥ
E. BURNHAM’S
Celebrated KALOS
Toilet Preparations
Kalos Skin Rejuvenator (Skin Food)
prevents wrinkles.
Kalos Fairy Fluff Face Powder, deli-
cate and adhesive.
Kalos Chin Mask reduces double chin and supports
sagging muscles.
Kalos Perfumes and Toilet Waters, “Blue Violets”,
“Lily of the Valley”, “Lilac”, etc.
Write for Free Booklet, “Beauty's Charm”
Attractive offer to representative
dealers throughout the world.
E. BURNHAM
Established 1871
G 138-140 N. State St. Chicago, U. S. A.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF?
■\/OU begin to
t * look old. with
those grey and
faded hairi,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
fghfg
Lockyer’s
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair. Dressing.
DON'T LOOK OLD.
CATAR R H
INSTANT RELIEF
ULTIMATE CURE-
10|-
Catarrh is unpleasant both to the sufferer
and his associates. It often leads to consump-
tion ; it is a, frequent cause of deafness; it
creates dyspepsia; and it invariably lowers the
tone of the sufferer, impairing his capacity for
work and enjoyment.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR.
hfg
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal
Deafness, Headache, Neural-
gia, Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis,
Asthma, Hay Fever, etc., etc.
Restores the sense of taste and smell,
and thoroughly cleanses, soothes and
heals.
Thousands of people in Australia ar.d
N.Z. have derived the greatest benefit
from Ramey’s Medicator. Become one
Size, Siin.
Ion?.
of them.
The complete outfit costs
10 /-
ORDER NOW. USE THIS FORM.
STAR NOVELTY 00.,
103 Australian Buildings, Melbourne, Vie.
Please send Outfit containing 1 Nickel-plated
Ramey Medieator, 1 bottle Inhalent, and 1 tin
Ointment (four months’ treatment), post paid,
for which I enclose Ten Shillings.
Name
Address '.
Send Money Order or Postal Note. Cash
must be registered.
PERTUSSIN
the*
A remedy constantly
Recommended by
Doctors for the last
twenty years against
WHOOPING GOUGH
GOUGHS
CATARRH
ASTHMA
Rapid Recovery.
Csffi be obtained at all Chemists.


Prevent sKin
Blemishes
A
JJI
' Si?
By Using
(Moira soap
They do so much to promote and
maintain the purity and beauty of
the complexion, hands and hair un-
der all conditions, and are unexcelled
in purity, delicacy and fragrance for
the toilet and nursery.
Oiatlcura Soap and Olntmem are sold throughout
the world. A liberal sample of each, with 32-page
booklet on the care and treatment of the skin and
scalp, sent post-free. Address R. Towns & C’o
Sydney, N. S. W.
Drives Sallowness
from the Skin
Ladies, imperfect complexion is caused by
a sluggish liver. A few davs’ treatment with
CARTER'S LITTLE LIVER PILLS will do
more to clean up the skin
than all the beauty
creams in creation.
Cures constipation,
unclogs the liver,
ends indigestion,
biliousness and
dizziness.
Purely vege-/
table, never'
fail.
fgh
Carters
WITTLE
I IYER
[ PILLS.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The GENUINE must bear signature
ghf
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grev Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
age, whereas the other half looks onlv 30. Dr. II
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grev or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easv to applv,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. B. ALLEN’S (U
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equallv suitable
for Ladies Hair, or I-lair of the Beard or Moustache
hgh
For First-Class
Results use
Best
carbide.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
' from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney. Sole Asr-nts for Australia.
PAGES FOR EVERY WOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
CALIFORNIA
Corrugated Culverts.
MADE ONLY OF PUREST IRON.
Do not bother any more with concrete or wooden culverts; concrete
culverts crack and require skill to instal: wooden culverts may rot or be
burned out.
THl£ CALIFORNIA CORRUGATED CULVERT is easily fixed, carries
any load, combines all the requisites of permanent work, and gives you
greater confidence the more you use it.
TRY OMj, anj size, 12in. to 84in. dia. It will not cost you much.
So/e Agents
GIBSON, BATTLE & GO. Ltd.
535 Kent Street, Sydney. 486 Collins Street, Melbourne
(•a?;-*?
■r
ft
A HOME FOR
MELBOURNE GUESTS.
“ ¥
Corner Flinders Street
and Spencer Street,
MELBOURNE,
Sir Charles Hotham Hotel
3he Swan-Safety is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage: with the "ladder’’
Jeed erratic forking is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience: the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
POVNTPEN.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney
fghg
Hunyadi Janos
Indiscretions of diet are the most frequent cause of liver complaints.
Uther contributing factors are excess of alcohol and lack of exercise.
1 o safely and speedily overcome such a condition there is no better
remedy than the taking of a wine-glassful of Hunyadi Janos Natural
Aperient Water before breakfast every day for a week or fortnight
which has the happy effect of relieving in an almost instantaneous
manner any congestion of the liver.
Hunyadi Janos is obtainable at all chemists.
The Famous NATURAL Aperient Water
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
VIJ. 2/3 & 4/6. Made in England.
ĝhf
Checks Fever-
ishness. and
effectuall y
cuts short all
attacks at
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
*he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTIOH.
Aot* like a charm In
OIARRHCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
"Ahnswcr”: How hard it is to invent a new
crime ! I’ve just been reading an old account of a
trick that I’d thought was tolerably modern. A
man, named Hodges, unwillingly came to Australia
in 1800 for seven years for trying it on one Headley,
of Cambridge, an ironmonger. Headley was walking
in Shoe Lane, London, when he saw a parcel on the
ground. Before he could get it, Hodges pushed past
him and picked it up. Together they went into a
pub, and after having a drink, opened the parcel.
It contained a magnificent diamond cross and a
receipt: .“London, 20th June, 1790. Received from
John King, Esq., 320 £ for one diamond cross,
designed and made by me. William Smith, Jeweller,
Oheapside.” This was properly done up with a
fourpenny stamp. Headley gave Hodges a large sum
of money, and next day found his cross was worth
exactly 3s. 6d. He sought out William Smith in
Oheapside, but he sought in vain. Then he “stagged”
Hodges; that is, he informed on him, shielding
himself by saying that his only motive in making
the deal was to restore the lost trinket. So Hodges,
being “stagged” for “cross-dropping.” as it was
called, came to Australia for seven years.
IVhen the Union Co.’s steamer Kaiapoi rolled into
Wellington (M.L.) the other day, dragging the old
Norwegian barque Lilia, she completed a record tow
to Maoriland waters. The barque was recently pur-
chased by the U.S.S. Co. for use as a coal hulk, and
the Kaiapoi started to lug her from Adelaide on
May 10. The long haul of 1900 miles was covered
at about six knots, and, although some very stormy
weather was met with on the voyage, the towlines
never parted. Altogether it was a fine bit of sea-
manship, and the skipper and crew of the Kaiapoi
have been rushed with some of the good things that
make success worth while.
* * * *
“Nulla”: lie that daily-paper yarn about people
mistaking ten-shilling notes for tenners, I can only
say that, if it’s true, traders are either a lot
more careless or a heap more confiding than they
were a few years back. I remember the time when
by sticking to the small pubs a man could have
drunk his way from Ilarlinghurst to Darwin on a
fiver, and that without changing it. For years
after Private Enterprise had made such an unholv
hash of the banking industry the tendering of
“paper” was sufficient to cause the average hush
Hung to fairly exude credit. It was always a case
of “just changed a tenner f’r Bill Brushhook. Ain't
you got any silver?” As one of them confided to
me: “I’d sooner lose a couple o’ rums than chance
changin’ blanky fivers these days.” AVriting of paper
money reminds me that the old-time crinkly miners'
and electors’ rights have also played their parts in
the currency of the country. For some inscrutable
reason black gins seemed to get hold of a lot of this
sort of “money,” while it was also favored bv some
of the more studious attendants at two-up schools.
I remember one such —call him Smith—who, after
spending all his money in endeavoring to win a
bursary or whatever prize it is that those learned
circles award, suddenly produced a “note,” and, twin-
ing it around his fingers, remarked: “Cut inter
that, you blankers.” They duly cut in, and pre-
sently one, after examining the “note,” exclaimed
in tones of pained surprise: “Blime, Smithy. This
is no good!” “Well, blime,” rejoined Smith, “it’s
the best I’ve got.”
A Manildra (N.S.W.) wheat man lately tried to
nail down in plain arithmetic the actual price he
paid during this season for the Congested Port in-
sanity. Mr. Denton, the wheat man referred to,
prepared to send along his produce to the local
station for transhipment to Congested Sydney; but
since the necessary trucks were, as usual, absent
and none could say definitely when they would be
present, he had to stack the grain in the open and
protect it from weather, birds and rats as best he
could. Then he figured out what the missing vehicles
had cost, him per 25,000 bags, and here it is: Extra
handling of wheat, £62 10s. ; interest on £5O
worth of galvanised iron at 10 p.c., £5; shifting
and placing sleepers, £3; hessian for covering one
side of stack, £5 ; loss of stacked wheat caused by
stock and weather, £33; rebagging 230 bags at
9d. per bag, £8 12s. ; battens for placing iron on
and securing same, £8 3s. That strikes one as
being a bit over the odds; but how would it strike
™ ®“ e if th e entire loss on the whole insanitv
of the closed-ports system, with its resultant con-
gestion and blocked traffic, were made known ? Pro-
bably it would strike the public stiff.
Quidam”: W hat a lot of people seem to want
mates to go rabbit-trapping, said mates to
piovide certain sums of boodle! Judging by recent
ads, the amounts required vary according to the
vehicle owned by the advertiser. For instance, £lO
is required when the “experienced rabbit-trapper” (he
is always experienced) has a sulky; £25 when it is
a two-horse waggon. When the experienced rabbiter
owns a motor-car or an aeroplane, only millionaires
will have any chance of getting into the partnership.
Incidentally it seems remarkable that so many ex-
perienced rabbiters should be loafing around Sydney
when they know splendid rabbiting ground and have
tun outfits.
BILL’S WAGES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The worker moves in a vicious circle; his higher
wages are always taken away from him by Higher
prices.— Current Tor) / statement.
“On the whole, the increase in wages has been in
advance of the increase in the cost of living.”
—Evidence of Statistician (J. 11. Knibbs.
Rill used to lift his wages
As humbly as could be ;
And all the seers and sages
Regarded him with glee;
They said that he was an Economic Fact, and they
wrote pages and pages
To prove that Supply-arid-Demand made him as well
off as ever he could possibly be.
When Bill bumped up his wages,
Then Fat bumped up his price—
Did this in steady stages:
It wasn’t very nice.
And every now and then Bill would fall into one of
the fiercest and wildest of rages,
And go out on a silly strike, even against a Union
secretary's most eloquent advice.
Bill was no hopeless duffer;
For he knew all the time
lie was the first to suffer
Should prices start to climb ;
But he also said, “If they try to make ihese mono-
poly prices very much tougher,
The Law will begin to treat their pretty little game
as a rather serious crime.”
Bill likewise told his neighbor
(For he was feeling sore),
“We’ve raised the price of Labor,
And Gripes! we’ll raise it more;
And no matter how the Telegraph and the Annus
sound the Tory tabor,
In the fight between wages and combine prices, \vq
know jolly well who’s going to be the last to
score.”
So here’s a bit of schooling
For Tories in their sin;
They can't beat Bill by fooling,
’Cause Hill is going to win :
And if the Tory wants to make good, he should quit
droning and dribbling and drooling,
And make up his mind to pay Bill more, and himself I
less, as the only way to save his skin.
N.s.vr.
M.


SPORTING RIFLES
of Reliability and Accuracy.
"WINCHESTER,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
22 Cal. Rim Fire, peep or V sights, seroll
trigger guard, rubber heel plate,
weight 2flb.
18s . 6d.
The above Uifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear sight,
Postage—l/6 N.S.W., 2/8 Inter-State.
21-
ƒghfgh
"'THE MAINE"
f?ifle
■jjedtf dijifj fruimagp
■THE MAINE” S.S. Rifle
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It
is a take-down, and can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore arm. The action
used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is exceedingly simple, con-
sisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored and i-ifled
with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed
accurate to 300yds. ; weight 31b., fitted with plain V back
sight
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300yds.
Postage on one Rifle—l/3 N.S.W. ; 2/2 Inter-State.
12/6
751-
GUN and
RIFLE
REPAIRS
a Speciality.
Sendforoor p r | cc Lj S t
of Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition, etc.
Post Free, Anywhere.
gfypTiiliiia
LsT»l^l
Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906 Model,
16 shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger, straight grip, slide action,
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges.
Postage-2/- N.S.W., 3/8 Inter-State.
44 -
fgh
BAYARD SEMI-AUTOMATIC RIFLE,
22 cal., 19in. Round Steel Barrel, length over all
oo 2 in., weight 3§lb., handles short or
long cartridges,
226
Postage—l/6 N.S.W., 2/8 Inter-State.
ST
Stevens’ “FAVORITE,”
22 W.R.F., or 22 Calibre Rim Fire, half-octagon 22in. barrel,
case-hardened frame, solid breech block, take down action, open front and rear
sights, weight 4|lb. Postage—l/D N.S.W., 3/2 Inter-State.
We can supply the above Rifles fitted with Beach Combination Front Sight and Vernier Rear, 35/-
25 or 32 Rim Fire Calibres, same description as above, 2/6 each extra.
22 6
fgh
“ Winchester ” Single Shot
Rifle, 1904 Model,
_ for 22 short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. lieavy
round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight, length of rifle over-
all, 37iin., bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish ; weight, about 41b.
Postage—l/9 N.S.W. ; 3/2 Inter-State.
245. 6d.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
City Depot: 119 King Street, Sydney;
and at Hunter Street, Newcastle.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout
agents for
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated 'Waters and Cordials.
p
LOCAL
PATRIOTISM
_ Yoob
Aim? e
Then have
Pfc at smoking
Referee
The Australian Tobacco.
l (
J_
X
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, lever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. G. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OK NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1013 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrik
England, (id. How to Gkt Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tines Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiik
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Gd posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/G.
Joys of Life, Is Gd. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyuook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling ry Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ingPampiilf.t, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert. Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life.
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted, ’sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris. Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handhook, as.- Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford) 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighror, 6d. Britain fop. the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train fop. all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
’s 3d. Theory of Value, Is Gd. French Polishing
»nd Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets. Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s Gd. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
I
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Panes.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which t'nev feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage. which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers! The new 20th Centura- edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
gW BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS- LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, tec., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (liuies for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River. 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. Is: post
Is 2d. Electricity Madk Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. W annan’s Engine Driver s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptamerox, and many
oth*-rs. all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. IHrEstablished 25 Tears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONEY A SMAIIII IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs,'ls 3d Dost. Ur. Milford’s Mid-
wife's Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, 2s (id.
Aristotle, 3/fi. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, Sew Edition, Is posted. Test Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 28. HOW TO ItEAD HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chbvassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book’, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bknnarr Macfadden's Works, all at ns posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Headings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure. Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). "Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com.
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


STOP THAT COUGH.
NINE-TENTHS of the diseases which to-day afflict the human race have
their rise in a common, ordinary little cold. The cold comes, and is
neglected, it moves down from nose to throat, from throat to bron-
chial tubes and lungs, and if it is not checked there may develop into
something serious. Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery will quickly relieve the
most obstinate cold or cough, and will prevent all the dangerous after-
effects of Lung and Throat Diseases.
n m
Mr. 11. M.
BARCHETT
(from a photo.)
“I was troubled for a long period
with very severe chest complaints,
involving many painful spasms and
coughing fits, leaving me in intense
pain and almost in convulsions of the
very worst nature, and scarcely able
to breathe or move about, and J came
to the honest conclusion that it would
turn to consumption,” writes Mr. H.
M. Sarchett. 152 Hazeldean Road,
Sydenham, Christchurch, N.Z. “I
tried everything possible that I could
procure, hut derived no benefit there-
from, till a friend asked me to give
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery a trial.
After the first trial I was able to
sleep and rest soundly, an almost
unknown pleasure, and in a very
short time all the painful symptoms
vanished, leaving me a new and
healthy person again, and I shall still
take and recommend Dr. Sheldon’s
New r Discovery to any fellow-sufferer
I can hear about or see.”
SAFEGUARDS FROM WINTER ILLS
Winter is now at hand, and with its arrival we are all liable to sudden chills
and colds. The time for action is upon the appearance of the first symptoms,
when you should at once take Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery in teaspoonful doses
every three hours, with an additional dose at bedtime, when you will at once
experience a wonderful soothing effect upon the mucous membranes, easing the
throat and chest, thus enabling you to enjoy a good night’s rest. Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery is unequalled for influenza and bronchitis, and is infallible for croup
or whooping-cough, for, while it is most powerful in its action, yet it can be
administered to the smallest child with the same safety as to the full-grown
adult. Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is sold everywhere at 1/G, or, in larger
bottles, holding two and a half times the quantity, for 3/- It has been used by
thousands of people, and while we have received hundreds of voluntary testi-
monials for this great remedy, we have yet to hear of a single case where it has
not been entirely satisfactory.
D? Sheldonsj
New Discovery
ghf
hfg
JT.
Serve REX Goods To-day.
Good cooks, we know, like to exercise their skill. They like to
serve their own creations.
But in some lines, Madam, specialists do better. They get
better materials; they have better facilities. And they’ve searched
the world sometimes to get a faultless recipe.
That is true of “Rex” Pork and Beans. Nobody has ever
matched this dish. Perhaps nobody ever will.
Your 7iien folks like it—like Beans baked this way. They
like it so well that many restaurants where men lunch buy
“REX” Brand
Pork and Beans with Tomato Sauce.
Every day, housewives are serving dishes of good things that
wc cook. Not for convenience, not economy only.
It is so with our Pork and Beans. It is so with our other
delicacies. We have searched the world to get for you the ideal
quality in each. REX BRAND DELICACIES ARE:—
Pork and Beans.
Ham Pate, H lb. tins.
Veal & Tongue Pate, % lb.
Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
Pigs’ Feet.
Sheep’s Tongues.
“Rex” Brand Liard for
cooking purposes.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
II .....A.
REX
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
Curers of “Rex” Hams & Bacon.
if
B
&■
X
BRAND
RSH
A Touch of Autumn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is a touch .of Autumn in the air,
And on the lawn the silver.'sheen of frost;
The sun a little later finds us where
We. lie and dream of Summer —who is
lost;
She slipped away—we did not see her go,
r But merely noticed that she wasn’t there;
Then on a sunless beach someone said, “Joe,
There is a touch of Autumn in the air.”
The evening sea is grey. The tailor’s ad.
Is shouting “Winter!” in unwilling ears,
And telling us we must be warmly clad.
(This ere poor Autumn on the scene ap-
pears !,)
Quite well she knows swift Summer will
come back
To say farewell some twenty times or so;
Reluctant as a star to take the track,
It nearly breaks her warm young heart to
g°.
We go no longer for the morning swim ;
Our bathing suits a banquet make for
moths;
The evenings, too, are bleak and rather dim,
And on the beach the unshot breaker
froths.
We light the lamp for tea and gently shun
The draught that seems to come from
Scott’s South Pole;
The heat is over and the cold’s begun ;
I must ring up for half a ton of coal.
N.S.W.
FOE.
Jezebel.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
YESTEIiEVEN as the sun set over the
red tower of Carchemish, which is by
the Gate of the Kings, came one from
the way of the desert bringing a scroll written
upon a papyrus of Egypt from the city of
Jezreel, which is in the land of Israel. And
I. knowing the form of the writing thereon,
entered into the inmost chamber that I might
break the seal and read. And the seal was
red with wax of Cyprus and of a sweet savor
as the herbs of the South; but the mark
thereon was the mark of a king, even of
Ahab, King of Israel, who had set the world
aflame with the repute of his valor and
courtliness.
So I sent my maidens from me and broke
the wax and read the words of her who had
been my foster-sister in the garden by the
waters of Tyre :
“To Azubah, of the golden hair, from
Jezebel, the Queen. Greeting.
“Know, O foster-sister, by this writing of
mine own hand that the thing thou hast put
from thee has become great in my keeping.
Ahab, my lord, hath smitten the Syrians
with a great slaughter, and Samaria hath
peace in all her borders. Yea, and moreover,
this people of Israel knoweth its mistress
and rejoiceth with her who hath stolen thy
name; for she hath put away the sour face
and the bitter look of them that follow the
god of the hook-nose shekel-changers of
Judah, and hath made the gladness of the
feasts of Baal-Sin and Baal-Melkarth to be
heard in the land. I am become a great
lady, and at the passing of my chariot all
men salute with joyous countenances; and
-when my lord, Ahab, cometh in triumph
from the' wars the people rejoice more in my
smiles than in the glitter of all his spears.
For the word is among them that Jezebel
hath filled the world with wine and dance
and song, till there is no place any more for
lamentation.
, “Little sister, I have heard of thy man,
Kardok of the white arm, and what honor
he hath among the kings of the Keta ; and
in my heart I think that all is well, and
that thou hast made a good exchange of
greatness for joy. But, as for me, my great-
ness is joy; for Ahab bendetli his strength to
my will, and my little hand can make nations
to' tremble. But the anger of the prophets
of the God of Jerusalem is very great against
me, seeing that I have taken their living from
them, and made them a laughing-stock before
all the people, so that some of them have
even sought to kill me. And one who hath
more hair to his countenance than a bale of
camels’ clippings from Edom meeteth me oft
by the way. and. cursing me, foretelletli that
the dogs shall eat me up in the streets of
Jezreel. But I suffer him for the jest of his
beard, which is of two cubits length and un-
combed ; for surely if he were slain there is
not its match from Tarshish to Jabad.
“Little sister, I fear not that the dogs shall
eat me this summer or the next; but if it
should hapnen when age is come that my
staff is broken and calamity fall upon me I
shall not fear, but go proudly to meet it.
When my lips fade I have that wherewith to
redden them ; when my cheeks become pale I
can set a rose in them with the dye of
Lebanon ; and while my beauty remaineth I
am mistress of men.
“Write me a word from thy far city to
tell me that the world is well with thee and
thy beloved. And so fare thee well.
“I unseal this letter to write again.
“The prophet with the that thou wot-
test of roasteth a bullock to his God on
Mount Carmel, and all Samaria and Jezreel
are filled with laughter, saying that he bring-
eth fire from Heaven with the hotness of his
curses against Jezebel. Little Jezebel, thou
hast a new name, and there is no curse
against Azubah. Think kindly of the old
Azubah that so oft hath kissed thee in the
sea garden of Ethbaal. Farewell.”
When I had read that letter I lay down
upon the couch in the balcony that is towards
the west, and looked out upon the shadow
that grew up from the desert; for my heart
was full of the wonder of memory and the
thought of the things that had been.
Five years agone, in the garden of the
King’s house at Tyre, where the roses were
red on the south s ; de of the wall and the
waves white upon the north side, I, Jezebel,
daughter of Ethbaal the King, sat with my
handmaiden Azubah by the sundial and
talked of the things of the morrow. For a
word had come to us that King Ahab of
Samaria sought me in marriage, and that a
band of the spearmen of Israel was come to
conduct me from my father’s home. And I
wept for the thing that was to be, but
Azubah sought to comfort me; for Azubah
was my foster-sister, albeit the daughter of a
slave of Tarshish, and more to me than many
sisters of my own blood. My mother, who
died when I was yet but a child, had come
to my father Ethbaal from the kingdom of
the Cynesi, which is in the uttermost islands
of the sea, beyond the narrow waters that
pass between the pillars of Baal-Melkartli.
And the hair that was red and golden and
the eyes that were blue which she had given
to me the mother of Azubali had also given
unto her, so that we were alike in all things
save in spirit. For Azubali went as a queen,
and I as a priestess of the temple of Baal-
Sin: wherefore the handmaiden bore herself
more proudly than her mistress, though the
mistress was the taller by a finger-breadth.
And thus it came to pass that when I had
made the white embroidery of Accho which
was upon my robe wet with my weeping for
a thing I knew not, Azubali laughed away my
tears.
But on the morrow the King, my father,
held court, and into the great hall came the
captain of the spears of King Ahab, a man
of exceeding great height and fair to look
upon, who seemed among the men of Israel
and Tyre as a pillar of marble beside the
trunks of Lebanon. His eye and bearing
were proud, yet he knelt before the King,
as he presented the writing of papyrus which
had the red seal of Ahab. Then my father
read the word that was written and stretched
forth his hand and bade the captain of the
spears stand upon his feet, and beckoned me
to come to him.
“Behold,” said the King. “Ahab, the King
of Samaria, seeketh thee, my daughter, in
marriage, and it is my good pleasure that
thou shouldst go with the Rab Ivardok,
whom lie sendeth as his ambassador, to be
the wife of the King and to reign with him
upon his throne in Israel; that there may be
peace and kindness between his house and
mine all the days of our lives.”
Then all my spirit trembled and the tears
were near to breaking forth in my eyes, but
when I looked up into the face of the captain
of the spearmen my heart w r as strong; for it
seemed, indeed, that in his eyes was a great
faithfulness, and that if the master were
worthy of the servant whom he had sent it
were a good thing to be in Israel. For the
princes of Tyre and the seaeoast w r ere a
weariness to me, and there was none among
them like unto my father and this stranger.
So I kept my countenance, and knelt before
mv father that he might bless me; but after-
wards in the garden I wept till Azubali
kis«ed away my foolishness.
Then on the third day we rode forth from
the city, a great company, with many mules
and much rich merchandise which my father
sent as a. gift for King Ahab ; and the spear-
men of Israel went before and behind, and
the Rah Kardok rode on my left hand. More-
over. Azubali came with me as my hand-
maiden. and the sun shone, and my heart was
light within me.
For on the day of our setting forth the
purple lights upon Lebanon* and the blue of
the (Treat Sea, and the songs of the birds,
and the shining armor of the spearmen, and
the cheers of the people as we left the city
gato filled all the world with a strange magic,
until the real things seemed unreal and the
world was full of dreams. And as now we
went softly along the path which led between
great cedar trees to a valley filled with the
whiteness of the barley harvest. Azubali. who
rode a little behind me, nushed her horse to
my side and said in the language which men
sneak in _ the countries beyond Tarshish:
“Lo, if this land smileth so to bid thee good
speed, how shall Samaria smile to bid thee
welcome?” And tins thing she said to hearten
me; for oftentimes did we hold converse in
the tongue of our mothers, the tongue which
was known to no man in the coasts of Tyre
or Israel.
But the Rab Kardok when lie heard the
words laughed lightly, and said in the same
speech: “O Princess, in Tyre or Ephraim
how should the mountains and the valleys
fail from being glad when thou sheddest noon
them thy smile like the flashing of the morn-
ing?”
Whereat I cried out. and Azubali said
eagerly: “Hast thou. O Lord Kardok. the
speech of the people of the Cynesi who dwell
in the setting of the sun?”
And he said : “Of the Cynesi am I, and all
other speech is strange in my ears; for I
was bred by the mountains of the uttermost
sea, and learned my- sword-craft beyond the
farthest going of tile great ships of Tar-
shish.”
Then we asked him many things of that
far land and of its people, and all the day
I hung upon his words ; for he told of tilings
wonderful beyond belief, of voyages and
great deeds in battle, and of the race of
kings whence my mother had come, which
was near of kin unto his own people.
And as evening fell, Azubali drew back
from us a little, but Kardok and myself still
talked, and our horses walked closely to-
gether, so that sometimes the armor of his
sleeve brushed my shoulder; and all the while
my heart was strangely light, though I went
to wed a king whose face I knew not.
So that evening we rested in a little vil-
lage. where the people had made great pre-
paration for our coming, and threw flowers
in our way, and brought us to the place of
our lodging with waving of torches and blow-
ing of horns; for we were yet in the country
of the Phoenicians and my father’s name was
great upon the lips of all men.
But at the rising of the sun we rode on,
going down by the great slopes of the moun-
tains towards the valleys that were green
with much grass or white with barley. " And
still bv the way Kardok spake in the tongue
that I loved, and all things else seemed a
dream, save bis presence with me and the
words that I heard.
And when the second evening was come
Azubali dressed my hair in the chamber made
readv for me, and drew the pins of pearl
from the veils of the lace of Babylon that
were about me, and looked strangely into my
eyes.
“If thou likest the captain of the King’s
spears so greatly.” sho said, “how much shaft
thou love the King that sent him?”
And she sought to kiss me on the cheek,
hut I put her from me and walked apart in
the chamber. For all my heart became hot
and heavy, and I thought that I hated the
King. And the word that she had spoken
stayed with me in the darkness, so that I
slept not till near cockcrow, but tossed upon
(Continued on next page.)


MiiiimmiMirj
■
<4
HKv
\\\y
m
Smarting, Soreness and Painful
Cracks Soothed and Healed.
What irritation arises from raw,
chapped hands! If the skin is at
all sensitive, some people suffer
more or less in this way all the
year round; but with the damp,
cold and frost of winter, the hands
and wrists become a positive tor-
ture. First, the skin loses its pleasant
softness, then there is a disagreeable
roughness and redness, followed by
cracking and bleeding, particularly in
the region of the knuckles and wrists.
This distressing condition is made worse
by drying the hands or face carelessly after
washing on a raw, cold day. Neglecting chaps
or any cold sores may lead to painful swelling
and inflammation. There Is a danger of grit
and dirt getting into the cracks of the skin,
and setting up positive torture.
The trouble is utterly beyond the reach of
toilet creams and cheap salves, which possess
no medicinal value whatever, and which are
not of the least use when the tissues are thus
affected. Zam-Buk is the scientific Balm
fgh
fgh
Zam-Buk
is
Soothing,
Healing
and
Antiseptic.
which, in addition to allaying: the inflammation and pain, aijd healing chaps and
roughness, also imparts a new and remarkable healthiness to the skin itself.
Smear Zam-Buk on at night, and wear an old pair of gloves till morning. The
effect of the application of Zam-Buk is delightfully soothing. Its pure essences
instantly soak into and thoroughly permeate the tissues of the skin, softening and
healing in a perfectly natural way—the unique Zam-Buk way. Keep a pot of
Zam-Buk handy, then, for your skin is sure to need its soothing and healing aid
these raw, cold days.
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK.
CHIIiBLiAINS BANISHED.
Mr. William Bacon, of Verner Street, Goul-
burn, N.S.W., says:—“During the winter we
experience very cold, frosty weather, and nurse
the fire very closely. The inevitable result is
chilblains. I suffer considerably in this
respect, having had chilblains on the feet,
hands and ears. I tried many ointments and
salves, but with scant success. I applied
Zam-Buk, and the first application drove out
the irritation and soothed the chilblains.”
CHAPS AND SORE DIPS HEADED.
Mrs. M. Boyd, 147 Toorak Road, South
Yarra, Melbourne, Vic., has suffered from
chapped hands and lips, and writes:—“l
always keep a pot of Zam-Buk by me, as I
consider it invaluable for the hands during the
cold winter weather. I suffered from chapped
hands and lips, but a few applications of
the balm soothed and healed the smarting
chaps very quickly.”
fgh
nature's own healer.
Zam-Buk Is excellent for
eczema, piles, raw places,
blood-poison, chapped
hands, cold-sores, bad
legs, and heals cuts,
burns, scalds and
bruises. Of all chemists
and stores at Is. 6d. and
3s. 6d. per pot.
A Remarkable Remedy.
Few medicines have met with more favor or accomplished more good than
Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy.
It has relieved more pain and suffering and saved the lives of more people
than any other preparation in use. One or two doses of it is enough to relieve
an ordinary attack of colic or diarrhoea. It has been used in many epidemicsof
dysentery with perfect success.
Itrelieves bowel complaints in their most severe forms and is especially valu-
able for diarrhoea and summer complaint in children.
fiIMNNY Gl/tMBERMIN
VtoPvRiCnJCOJ ’
-- -
Good for tRe
WRole Family.
“ A good cough remedy is one that can be depended upon to cure coughs.
Not one that cures some particular cough, but coughs in general.
It must be a cough remedy that can be relied upon for all the different
coughs that are so prevalent in Australasia. While the causes of all coughs
are primarily the same, yet the condition of the patient is what makes the
difference in the nature of the cough itself. Coughs of healthy persons
are easier to cure than the coughs of invalids. The powerful convulsive
cough of a large man is harder to cure than the cough of a babv. If you
get a remedy that will cure a large man’s cough, and yet not be too
powerful for the baby, you have a good cough remedy.
mi
HLllft
COUGH EEMEBT
is just this kind of remedy. It is good for any member of the family It
cures coughs of all kinds. It is the product of much thought and study to
produce an ideal cough remedy. It is composed of things which cure easily
and soothingly without harming the most delicate tissues of the throat
It acts as easily and safely on the young as on the old rt A,Lrloin’s
Cough Remedy is the ideal remedy for coughs, cold oroup
whooping cough and bronchitis. ” ’ crou P> innuen >
my bed and lamented in my own heart that
1 was not even as the women who tended the
young vines in the gardens, hut the daughter
of a great king. But towards morning I
fell into dreams, and thought that I was upon
a ship of Tarsliish which ever went through
the waves to a land that was afar off where
Kardok stood waiting me. For it seemed
that Kardok was the king of the whole earth,
and that my father had given me to him to
wife. But when the light was in the sky I
awoke and remembered Ahab, and knew that
the city of Samaria was but two days’ jour-
ney distant.
And that morning we rode silently between
meadows that were bright with flowers, and
all the air was full of the singing of birds,
but my heart was heavy within me. Neither,
could Azubah cheer me with her laughter, so
that presently she fell back to talk to him
that had charge of the mules and the trea-
sures of the King’s gift, and Kardok and
myself were left alone, riding silently down
towards the foot of the mountain country.
And when the morning was spent and the
sun stood almost at the nooning, Kardok
spake the word that we should turn aside
into a wood where was a stream of bright
water, that we might rest for an hour before
going on our way. And when we had eaten
and drunk, the men who were with the bag-
gage spread for us upon the ground rugs of
Sheba and pillows of Damascus that we
might have refreshment in the shade of the
trees. And Azubah slept, but the fear of
many things held me, so that I could not
lie in peace, but must needs rise and walk in
the woods. But the boles of the trees were
many, and each one like unto his fellow, so
that when I had walked a little way I knew
not whither to return that I might find the
place of our resting. Wherefore I walked
hither and thither and cried aloud, but none
heard me calling, and the trees and the
shadows grew ever more and more until a
great fear was upon me. And the fear of the
wood was for tin; time more than the fear of
King Ahab, so that I ran to and fro, and
made a great clamor. But at last, when two
full hours wore past, I sat down upon the
branch of a fallen tree and gave myself up
utterly for lost.
Then between the trunks of the trees I saw
that Kardok came towards me, calling upon
me by name. And I ran to him, and clung
to him weeping, and called him sweet names
as my deliverer, so that lie was fain to put
liis hands on my hair that lie might comfort
me.
But when I had become calm, Kardok took
me by the hand that he might lead me forth,
and said: “() Princess, the danger is past,
and our train waiteth to set out upon the
journey.”
But I cried: “Would that we were lost in
these woods for ever, now that thou art with
me; for I would rather be a gatherer of
sycamore fruit, and dwell in the places of
the rocks with tliee than go forth to meet the
King of Israel.”
Then Kardok dropped my hand and turned
liis back upon me, and strode swiftly away,
as if he would go from me and leave me in
the wood. But I cried out upon him, and
he returned and stood by my side looking
into my eyes with a grave countenance.
"Little one,” he said, “the bitterness of
kings and of princes is as the sword of time,
which spareth neither beauty nor greatness.
Tliinkest thou that all the trees and rocks
of the world would shield thee or me from
the swords of Ahab and of thy father if we
should transgress their will.”
But I said passionately: “Would that we
were in my mother’s land that is beyond
the sea ; for I cannot breathe in this place
where woman is as merchandise of the marts
and a man’s sword the plaything of kings.”
Then he put his hand upon my head, and
I knew that the fingers trembled as they
touched my hair. “Little one, let us go.
Our feet are in the meshes of the great net
that none may break, and I should do thee
ill to bid thee follow the way of the wood-
dove or the swallow. Let us return.”
So we went back to the place where the
horses and the spearmen waited us, and rode
silently down into the great defile that lead-
eth towards the Valley of Jezreel.
And as we went we saw a village which
spoilers had wasted, where yet the smoke
rose from the blackened walls, and a field
upon the hill-slope where the barley harvest
had been burned with fire. And Kardok and
two of the spearmen of the troop turned
aside that they might look upon the thing
that was done; and when they returned Kar-
dok went throughout the band and spoke to
the men, and brought some of the spears
that were in the rear rank, and set them
in the forefront. And we went on with
more haste than heretofore.
For the word had gone forth that the
Syrian hands were abroad on the borders of
the King of Israel, and none knew the num-
ber of their spears or the way that they had
gone.
And as the sun had now fallen low in the
heavens, and a great shadow lay upon the
defile through which we went, Kardok looked
upon me with a grave countenance; for lie
greatly feared that tin- darkness of night
would come upon us before he had reached
the open country. So we rode on with speed,
none speaking to his neighbor, until the val-
ley grew wider, and we came upon a place of
many small trees with green grass between
them. And when full evening was upon the
land we looked up and saw between the high
rocks on either hand the shining of a white
star; but we drew not rein though the
horses stumbled with weariness.
Then, on a sudden, there was a blowing
of horns, and from all the trees and bushes
about us spearmen rode in upon our band,
and there was shouting and the clash of
swords, so that mv horse reared with fright,
and plunging among the trees,-, threw me
from the saddle. And I heard the battle
pass on beyond where I lay, for I was half
dead with the fear of it. and sought not to
rise from where I had fallen.
But when for long there had been a great
silence about me I arose unhurt, and saw
that there was moonshine over the high
rocks. (And, even as I stood upon my feet,
I heard a voice that called softly upon my
name; and my heart leaped up at the sound,
for it was the voice of Kardok. So I went
towards him in fear and great joy and laid
my arms about him and looked up into his
face.
Then lie took, me in liis--arms so that my
lnur was against his clieen, and speak.ng
no worn, carried me to a cieft in the rocßs
where small trees grew and set me down
softly in that shelter.
“Little one,” he said in a whisper in my
ear, "make not so much sound as the pass-
ing of a serpent among the dry herbs, for
the spearmen of Syria are not yet gone, and
our men are broken and scattered.. Yea,
and with my life shall I answer to King
Aliab for this night’s work.”
Then I threw my arms about him and
sa.tl in his ear: “Not for this night’s, work
nor for aught that thou shalt ever do shall
the King oi Israel have thy life ; for thou are
mine, and I will hold thee that thou shalt
never see the King.”
But he put me from him, and throwing
down his cloak that I might rest upon 1,,
went apart and stood looking towards the
broken ground below.
And i wrapped myself in the cloak, and,
lying down, slept heavily, for I was veiy
weary.
But when I wakened light was in the sky,
and Kardok stood over me.
“Little Princess,” he said, “behold, a troop
cometh, and I think by their riding that they
are the men of Aliab come forth to meet u*.
Arise, therefore, and make thee ready to go
with them to the presence of our lord.”
But I said : “Bow down swiftly that they
see thee not, and let us look through the
bushes; for the chance of the night hath
given thee to me, and, by the soul of my
mother, I will not yield thee up for all the
kings of the East.”
And lie laughed and said: “Little one. it
is the time of a sword.” But he stretched
himself on the ground behind the bushes,
and I took his lingers in my own hand, amt
so we lay waiting for the troop to draw
nigh.
Then the horsemen rode slowly into the
place of battle, looking to the right hand
and to the left. And one was of great
stature, a mat of swarthy countenance and
high bearing, upon whose armor were studs
and bosses of gold.
And Kardok, speaking in mine ear, said :
“Behold, the King himself hath come to seek
thee. It is Aliab, our lord.”
But I said: “Be still, O Kardok; for the
chance of the morning is with us, even as
the chance of the night.”
Then King Ahab threw himself from his
horse, and went a step into the bushes and
drew forth a scarf, which he held up before
the whole band. And it was the scarf broid-
ered with great pearls that had fallen from
my shoulder.
Then while yet the horsemen looked upon
the thing that the King had found, I was
ware that a rider came forth from among
the little trees, riding upon- my own horse,
and I saw that it was a woman, and that
the woman was Azubah. And 1 pressed
the lingers of Kardok that he should re-
main still, and held my breath with wonder.
Then Ahab, the King, looked up and saw
a woman beautiful to behold, with hair like
the gold of Ojphir and a bearing like that of
a queen of all the world. And he ran for-
ward and laid hold upon her bridle and cried
with a loud voice, saying: “Tell me, art thou
not Jezebel, daughter of Ethbaal, King of
Tyre and the coasts of Sidon?”
And she said : “I am Jezebel. Art thou
not my lord Ahab, King of Israel?”
And lie said : “I am he,” and he bent low
at her side and kissed the whiteness of her
hand.
Then I pressed the hand of Kardok again,
and said in his ear: “Lo, the chance of the
morning is good.”
Then said Azubah: “The Syrian host came
upon us in the darkness, and tbv servant
Kardok and all thy spearmen are slain. But
I bid me in a juniper busli, and in the morn-
ing I found my horse that had stayed near-
by and thought to ride to thee into Samaria.”
Then King Ahab laughed, and said:
“Truly, I am mated with a wife after my
own heart; for thy courage is more than
thy beauty, and thy beauty is above all the
beauties of the world.”
Then the spearmen that were with the
King turned about, and the whole band
passed down the valley with blowing of
horns and clanking of armor.
And when they were gone beyond chance
of their returning, Kardok arose and drew
me to my feet, and we stood looking upon
one another. For the net .was broken about
our feet, and all the world was free to us as
to the eagles and the wood-doves.
Then said Kardok: “Azubah art thou from
henceforth, for another hath stolen thy
name.”
And I made answer lightly: “What
matter, O Kardok? llow many names would
I not give to have thy love?”
So we went toa-ether towards the valley,
walking warily; but I hid the rich jewels
that were upon my dress, turning the costly
embroideries within that the plain sides
might show uppermost.
And when we were come to a little village
some way off from the road that King Ahab
had taken we bargained with a merchantman
for two horses that we might ride to Jezreel.
But when w T e had taken food and rest we
rode not to Jezreel, but went hastily to the
eastward until we were passed beyond the
bounds of the kingdom of Ahab.
And I wrote a letter in the tongue which
my mother spoke and sealed it with a plain
seal, and sent it by a man of Israel returning
to his own country.
“To Queen Jezebel that is in Samaria.
Greeting:—
“My foster sister, of a good heart I give
thee the name that was mine and mv lord
Ahab. and all that pertainetli to my dignity.
For I have found a man after my own soul,
one who is more to me than many kingdoms.
In gladness will I wear the name that was
thine; for it is a good name and soundeth
sweet in my ears. If thou shalt hea*• of
me in the cities of the Kings of the Keta.
send me a word by one of thy neonle: for
thou art dear to me, and hast wrought great
things for me. Fare thee well.”
And I rede forth with him whom mv soul
loveth in the day dawning, and we saw the
sun come un out of the great East.
And Kardok said: “Beyond the sun-rising
is there wide space for a good sword.”
But I answered and said: “Beyond the
sun-rising is there wide space for a great
love.”
VAVIG MCKEE WRIGHT.


WESTINGHOUSE
(MORSE) CHAIN DRIVES
s* '
■ vO - '•'
iHisr. '$ / 5*
M
U •' '
; -■ :
'
:
ssmi
w
For heavy machine tool
WORK, and for every type
of high-speed power trans-
mission, WESTING HOUSE (Morse
CHAIN DRIVES are pre-eminent
because of their patented feature,
The Rocker Joint,
which eliminates sliding friction
at the joint and the consequent
loss of power.
Full Particulars from
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents—Philips & Pike, Wellington,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES. [3
Have You Considered
BOUNDER RESAWS?
They are a much better proposition
than a Band Besaw. The upkeep is
considerably less, and the saw-kerf is
smaller, combined with more finished
cutting.
Universally Used in Europe in
Preference to a Band Resaw.
Feed up to 150 ft. per minute.
Ask our Bolinder expert to call on
you with a view of explaining more
dr
-x
*****
fully the advantages of these Machines.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Brisbane: CORDON PAINE LTD. Melbourne: NOYES BROS. LTD.
GOLDFIELDS DIAMOND DRILLING CO. Pty.Ltd.
331 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works -Sturt St. f South Melbourne.
'
sole; agents for
Armstrong: Traction Well-Boring: Machine
MOVES WITHOUT HORSES
RUMELY KEROSENE
OIL TRACTORS.
ALL-STEEL BORING PLANTS,
V TOOLS CASING.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines,
Pumps, Windmills, Silos, Hay
Presses, Wagons, etc., etc.
REMINGTON
UMC .
fgh
New Club
| black powder
Shotgun
Cartridges
§
2
&
For a hard hitting black pow-
der load, ask your dealer for
Remington - UMC New Club
shotgun cartridges. Prompt
ignition. The now famous No.
2 primer has given New Clubs
a sure-fire record running back
at least two generations.
Remington Ann»-Union Metallic Cartridge Co?%[
New York London
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
P. 0. Bos 686 Melbourne
For sale by all leading dealers.
Look for the Remington-UMC red
ball mark on every box you buy.
cbxaf-
oi -
» .n&R
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
fgh
ĥfg
r
$
i
€
\
14
\
v
<■: *
fgh
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager.
fgh
SAWMILLERS,
Builders Joiners.
Take my advice and buy your
Woodworking Machines at
KIRCHNER & CO.
32 MarKet Street, Sydney.
They hold the largest stock in Australasia. They give you
value for your money. They are the manufacturers, and can
save you the heavy middleman's - commission. Their
machines are up to-date and reliable. They stock all spare
parts and reserve tools. It will be a pleasure to you and
your men to work their machines.
Go and see them to-day, or ’phone City 7091.
CASH OR TERMS. CATALOGUES FREE.
ghf
Dinneford's
hfg
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“ DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
fghgh
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
RIFE
fghgfh
ĥg
GET OCJR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
Low in first, cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30/FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL.
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile—
WRITE FOR FREE PLANS and BOOK.
Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,"
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
hfg
OSTER WPE THREADING
TOOLS
For the man who wants nothing: but the
best—
THERE IS NO TURNING BACK OVER
THE FINISHED THREAD WITH AN
OSTER —the Dies open and the Stock is
instantly removed from the pipe by a
simple turn of a thumb screw.
Think what this _ advantage means over
other styles. They possess other features,
too, which make them INDISPENSABLE
TO THE PROGRESSIVE SHOP.
Aoents: Call and see a demonstration, or write for booklet on “Pipe Threading.”
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers & Machinery Merchants, 60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
Hardies Genuine
u sed in place o 1 Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FjRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID 8 ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES HARDIE * CO.,
West, Sydney;
and at Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Tangye Portable Oil and Benzine Engines.
Clayton & Shuttleworth Portable Steam
Engine.
Wolseley Crutching: Plants.
Munro Handy Bagger Chaff cutter.
DfILCETY & COMPANY LIMITED,
MACHINERY AGENCIES:
TANGYES: Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Steam Engines, Boilers, Pumps of
all descriptions, Winches, Chain Blocks, Hydraulic Jacks, Screw Jacks, Bears, etc., etc.
CLAYTON L, SHCTTLEWORTH: Portable Steam & Traction Engines, Steam Road Rollers, etc.
NICHOESON & MORROW: “Union” Farm Implements, comprising Harvesters, Drills, etc.
WOESEEEY Sheep Shearing Machines. MCNRO Chaff cutters and Saw Benches.
GANE MIEKING MACHINES.
fghfgh
(ggg>
1.
to
to
&
>o
DAL<
111 “-i
Z
ALGETY* CP LT°
AGENTS
MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY,
and all Branches.
Gall and Inspect Our Showroom.
MASON Regulating Devices
We are the Agents for
THE MASON REGULATOR COMPANY
and carry complete stocks of their
ALL BRONZE STEAM REDUCING VALVES,
IRON BODY STEAM REDUCING VALVES,
WATER REDUCING VALVES,
PUMP PRESSURE REGULATORS.
When others give trouble, try a
MASON, they Never Fail.
If you are interested let us send you the latest edition of their Catalogue, just
to hand.
Sole Agents for Australia—
H. P. GREGORY <&. CO.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
WARBURTON, FRANKI LIL
307-311 Kent Street, Sydney ,* and 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR and
CARRY HEAVY STOCKS of
Premier Storage Batteries.
Cheapest and Best. Ask for Quotations.
isfeti
SHEEP
SHEARING
MACHINE
DANGAR GEDYE & C°
SYDNEY.
©6e BEST ENGINE TO BUY. - -
S6e CHEAPEST ENGINE TO RUN.
15h<i AUSTRALIAN - MADE ENGINE.
In Other Words—
THE SUNSHINE ENGINE
Maker: H. V. McKAY, Sunshine, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane.
BOR
99
iM&M
Traction and Non-Traction.
NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS. STOCKS KEPT.
♦
SEND FOR PARTICULARS TO THE SOLE AGENTS-
fgh
ghf
Friction or Cog Hoist
Fastest and Most Economical
Driller Made,
■
Equitable Buildings, Sydney
Church Lane, Melbourne
ƒgh
