

DEWAR’S MELLOWED BY AGE.
R. Q. & CJO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
m
Telephone: No. 225 Central
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
gitiiiiSluiiiE
I
HOBART.
Mitfi
Hadley s Orient fjotel.
Richardson’s
Wine 8 Spirit Stores,
68 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
158 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
m
Bottle, Case or Gallon at Wholesale Price
—=A
Take
I must have
#
s
Fine-Apple Brand
HAMS ©
BACON.
V.
ANTI BLOWPIPE
SAFES
made from these genuine Tat
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutxdtious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
m
J
i
m
*>, INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of* these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
■M.
‘ V
sS
v ,
m
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
m
f
Royal
Dutch
COCOA
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
WHITE
Sj|
Jto
0
ROOFS
are the roofs being used on a very large proportion of the beautiful homes of
America. The moneyed American wants the best—his architect gives him White
Malthoid. He knows it will outlast all other roofings and never give any trouble.
Might we send you booklets and samples ?
• V
THe Paraffine Paint Co.
D. S. EVANS,
Australasian Representative,
Challis House, Sydney
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
B.L
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
“QUEEN OF STATES
BACON and HAMS
QUEENSLAND CO-OP. BACON CO., LTD., BRISBANE.
HELIDON SPA
The wonderful efficacy of HELiDON SPA
lies in its capacity for rapid absorption.
'. 9 Agents,
Phillip St., Sydney, and Redfernt
The Bulletin
Yol. 35.—N0. 1785.]
[Thursday, April 30, 1914.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The Campaign of Liao-Yang, by Major H. Rowan-
Robinson (Constable).
The Iron Year, by Walter Bloem, translated from
the German (Lane, per Dymock’s Library). Very
vilely printed.
In the Cockpit of Europe, by Lieut.-Col. Alsag-er
Pollock (Bell).
War, by W. Douglas Newton (Methuen).
When Ghost Meets Ghost.
By WILLIAM DE MORGAN.
AUTHOR OF “JOSEPH VANCE,” “ALICE FOR SHORT;” etc.
Admirers of “Joseph Vance” will welcome this new novel bv Mr Op Mnrmn' Tn u ,•»
himself anymore-unlike everyone else than ever. /His whimsical outlook “and Wide 1 humorous humamtl
endear him _t° his readers, and compel them to follow to the end, and be at one -with! th™haracters oT his
dream world. Price, 3/6 ; posted, 3/0.
GEORGE ROBERTSON g CO. PROP'T'Y, LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Mouth is the Gateway
for the Entrance of Disease
Professor Miller. has proved conclusively that
no fewer than 38 different infections may be
traced with more, or less directness to the
human mouth, 'as a focal or starting point.
The mOuth being the gateway for the entrance
of disease, therefore it is here that the fight
must begin to keep the enemy out.
HUDSON'S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Ger-
micide and Antiseptic known, being destructive
to all forms of bacterial life. They keep the
mouth .in a sweet, healthy condition.
A. The Larynx or
organ of voice.
B. The Trachea or
windpipe.
is
C. The Bronchial
tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
I). A Lobe of one
of the lungs.
FTTTDSON’S mTTVraNTTTOT, .TTT.TTTBES
Contain no Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
SUITED FOR OLD AND YOUNG.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
Sold everywhere, Chemists, Grocers, Store-
keepers, in tins, price 1/6.
The Medical Press and Circular says.—
“These Jujubes should be of special service to
Lecturers, Public Singers and Speakers, and,
indeed, to all who are called upon to use their
voices frequently for prolonged periods.” [1
For Motoring, Driving
and Travelling. . . .
MOSGIEL
RUGS
The Most Luxurious Rug Made!
Exquisitely Soft and Comfortable.
Obtainable at all
the Best Shops. [3
only Perfecst Cleanser
for Artificial Teeth
DENSO
There's nothing like it—people every-
where are praising DENSO.
DENSO quickly renders the plate sweet,
clean, healthful; brightens the teeth, pre-
serves the gold, and is a perfect boon
to heavy smokers. Plates also fit better,
more comfortably after using DENSO.
If in doubt send Id. for postage on* FREE
Sample, [1
st Free in the
Commonwealth.
1/6, 2/6 Box,
Alphington, Melb.
Victoria, Australia,
The Red Page
Hell
It is well to remember that though war is
hell it is only one kind of hell, and that
there are other hells even more hellish. Thus,
the peace that would follow our backing-
down in the matter of a White Australia
would be too shameful to contemplate. And
the hell of the non-combatant, in an invaded
country, is much hotter than the hell of the
soldier. The trouble with us is that we have
not experienced even the lesser hell of war,
else we would want to prevent that hell.
And there is only one way to prevent war,
and that is to stop it beginning, by force.
Few historians have described war. What
an historian is concerned with is the moves
in a game in which armies are the pawns
and the general staffs the opposing chess-
players. But war isn’t a game: it is a
particular hell that will afflict a particular
soldier or a particular non-combatant. In
brief, it is the effect upon you that is the
important thing about war. If you knew
what happened to some individual during a
recent war, or even were told what might
happen to you in the event of a war in l the
immediate future, you might come to dislike
war and decide that your country was worth
saving from that horror.
Of these four books upon war, two term
war a game, and two show that it is hell.
The Campaign of lAao-Yang, being a treatise
upon the strategy of a recent war, rightly
leaves out the human element. The author
is dealing with a subject that should inter-
est all Australians. For this campaign has
striking analogies to the campaign that will
have <to be fo.uglit by Australia before she
makes good her claim to this continent. This
campaign illustrates warfare “under modern
conditions when it is being conducted in a
theatre of operations lacking in communica-
tions and offering considerable difficulties to
the movement and the feeding of great
masses of men.” And this brilliant analysis
of a war known chiefly to us through the
sensational accounts of special war-corre-
spondents, with its cold correction of mis-
statements and its mathematical demonstra-
tion of the real factors of success and fail-
ure, is as interesting as a fine novel. It is
the story of an antagonist who had made
adeqdate preparations against an unready
foe; af government interference with the
commanding officer; of reckless bravery in
offence and of stubborn bravery in defence;
of the lack of morale that destroys an army
which, for valid strategical reasons, is com-
pelled doggedly to retreat, and of the para-
mount importance of big battalions. The
author exposes the hesitations and the mis-
takes of the Japanese leadership, whose
success was largely due to the worse organi-
sation of the Russians. Kouropatkin’s fatal
decision to retreat from Liao-Yang was due
to three messages that he received after so
long holding his own against the Japanese;
one, of these messages, to the effect that
ammunition was running short, was not
correct.
With the knowledge at our disposal and
sitting far from, the toil and turmoil of battle,
it is clear that the Russian commander
should have made another bid for victory,
and that the result would then have depended
cn endurance and morale. The Russian
morale had no doubt suffered severely, but
the gallant fighting in this prolonged battle
by the Ist and 3rd Siberians, which, since
the commencement of the campaign, had en-
dured defeat after defeat, without once feel-
ing thd glamor of victory, showed how quickly
daring leadership or slight success might re-
store it. Moreover,-impartial observers have
stated that, amongst gallant troops,
the breaking: strain had been very nearly
reached, and, if the steel were snapped, it
was a commonly expressed belief that the
high temper of the metal would militate
against any repair or welding process.
One lesson drawn by the author from this
titanic struggle is that-
Whatever may be the brain-power, the in-
tellect, the skill in the leadership of an army,
and whatever may be the expenditure of
money, the subtletv of strategy, the result
of a campaign will depend largely on the
courage of the man. For there will always
be times and places where heroism on the
one side and lack of it on the other may
break the back of every military calcula-
tion.
But the chief cause of the temporary de-
feat of the Russians —for, had the war gone
on, Japan would have been beaten back by
sheer weight of numbers —was the unfortu-
nate influence exercised on the Russian
armies by the system of dual control.
Had Kouropatkin been given a free hand,
he would have retreated right back to Har-
bin, and, taking the offensive later with
sunerior numbers, might have achieved the
reputation, not indeed of a Napoleon, but
possibly of an Archduke Charles.
In the Cockpit of Europe attempts to
treat, in the guise of fiction, a war of the
immediate future. But the author cannot
write fiction ; and his account of the expedi-
tionary British army that was so brilliantly
victorious with the French against the Ger-
mans is merely a dull narrative of alleged
strategy and the bulldog breed. And he
delightfully places his war in the other fel-
low’s backyard. .Thus the non-combatant’s
woes do not trouble him. As our war will
certainly be fought in our own back-yard,
Alsager Pollock does not help us to envisage
this particular sort of hell. And he calmly
states in his preface that his assumption of
a British victory against German troops is
quite unlikely. “However, I required Brit-
ish victories, and I have therefore caused
the enemy to pave the way towards them...
Similarly, I fear I have unduly flattered the
British Nation, Government and War office.”
lie has. He admits that “war is a very
terrible thing,” but adds that this war did
England much good.
It brought together classes that, for base
political reasons, much had been dyne to
divide into opposite camps. ... When great
ladies sat working and talking for hours
with factory girls and the like, speaking of
matters equally near to the hearts of them
all, the good done was immense. Not only
did rich and poor meet on common ground,
but; the wives and daughters of plutocrats,
very worthy good women in all else but
their snobbery, found to their bewilderment
that gentlewomen seemed quite at home in
the company of tradespeople and the working
classes.
Even hell has its good side!
So by gallant officers, leading companies
of soldiers speaking one of the many un-
intelligible dialects of that polyglot island
in the North Sea, Germany is overwhelmed.
It is true that Australia and Maoriland and
France and Russia helped. Then the
.hero returns to England, covered with
medals and glory, and we hear all the
speeches at his home-coming, and even
accompany him to Windsor to chat with
the King,
Piffle.
Jt
The Iron Year has been immensely popu-
lar in Germany. It is a brilliant account of
the Franco-Prussian trouble, written from
the view-point of the soldier. Here we do see
that war is hell. The detail is grimly real-
istic, though through the narrative is
threaded a strand of romance to give a
little color to the drab material. One
picture must suifice: the story of the first
man killed.
“Fifteen pounds for the man who shoots
the first Frenchman, and I’m going to try
for the chink.”. .. .“Damn it! Somebody
else has shot the brute!”
He was a sturdy young fellow with a
chubby good-humored face beneath the tan,
he lay on his back, his left hand pressed to
his chest. Rosenberg raised it: a grey hole
was torn into the bright blue of his tunic
and a few thick, heavy drops oozed slowly
fi*om it.
“By Jove, Kraus!” Rosenberg raised his
hand in salute. “Bull’s-eye !”
There was an odd, stupefied expression in
Kraus’ eyes. His ling trembled.
“Fifteen quid and a medal,” said Rosen-
berg. “Why don’t you laugh, rnateV”
Kraus burst into sudden sobs. “O
mother!” he gasped, “O God, mother!”
_ Behind the thin network of patrols and
pickets facing each other there were millions
preparing for the fray. It seemed to him
as though one long, endless shriek of terror
rent the air, a fearful, magnified echo of the
uncontrollable sobs with which the first lucky
marksman had celebrated his victory. Ay,
they would all weep; victors and vanquished,
dead and living. Mourning and lamenting
without end would arise on earth, and njl
the enthusiastic raptures of victories gained,
triumphs earned and armies shattered would
not be able to deaden that fearful chorus of
weeping and wailing
And between them a pale blue and scarlet
spot lav stretched in the sand, a solitary
corpse surrounded by flies, which settled down
on the warm dark drons oozing out of the
tiny hole in the tunic, and drank their fill.
That is the soldier’s hell. Now we come
to the hell of the non-combatant. In War,
W. Douglas Newton shows us, in frenzied
journalese-and-Kipling, what happens to
non-combatants, Quakers, Peace Societies,
and such, when a country, island or conti-
nent, is invaded. “This book,” the writer
of the preface explains, “will be called sen-
sational and disgusting. That is precisely
what it is, because it is an account of the
sensational and disgusting thing called
War.”
It does not pretend to give statistics of the
general ruin and devastation which must
fall upon a country invaded by another of
the same degree of civilisation as his own ;
or of the death roll; or of the years of misery
and poverty that must follow: it does not de-
scribe the purely internal horrors that would
certainly take place in our larger towns \ i t
merely pictures the kind of thing which we
should all witness, so long as we survived our-
selves, in the familiar lanes and fields and
villages of our countryside.
War is a trade, something like the
slaughtering of cattle at an abattoirs. It
is unfortunate for the cattle, because they
are non-combatants. Newton pictures the
invasion of England by the Germans, of a
standard of civilisation equal to that of
their foes. From this lurid picture we can
glean some of the horrors of an invasion of
Australia by the Oriental. But not all.
There is outstanding that question of a
standard of civilisation.
Brun was an English non-combatant; and
his is a story of the non-combatants who,
unfortunately, got in the way. There was
one parcel of women and children who got
mixed up in the fighting... .They happened
to inhabit a village that stood between the
two combatants. There were the doctors
who did their best with the wounded. And
in the battles men died —variously.
Men came to fall continuously with the
strange sudden manner of the abruptly dead.
They fell down like empty sacks. They fell
down still full of jerky life. They lay in
odd and impossible attitudes as though care-
fully posed there by an eccentric artist.
Some fell clutching with clawliko, bloody
fingers at mythical aerial supports.
Others went up and came down —crash.
Sometimes men lay as though sleep had
come to them very softly. Sometimes they
writhed with all the kicking fervor of smit-
ten horses. Some fell flopping, and after
a second began to crawl. The fields were
full of crawling live tilings and silent dead
things, sprawled and impossibly angular
under the sun. There is no, mistaking the
utter negation of death.
And Brun’s girl—a non-combatant, too —
moans, “It ought to be stopped.”
“You can’t stop it now,” Brun points out.
“The way to stop it is to stop it before it
happens. But nobody thought about this
side before it happened. It was all armies
marching to victory. All soldiers doing
brave deeds. Nobody thought of the people
who weren’t soldiers getting mixed up with
the fighting. Nobody thought of what would
happen to non-combatants who got in the
way of armies. And nobody told u's.”
“Why?” demanded Agnes. “If we’d only
known we’d have moved heaven and earth
to prevent horror, happening to
anybody. Why?”
Brun turned to her with a bitter smile.
“They were afraid you’d be shocked, my
dear.”
Through all the horrors of the casual
slaying of people who would get in the way
of bullets, through the terrors of a siege of
a country town, Brun goes till he seeks out
a forgotten village as a refuge for his girl
and himself. Then, without warning, he
finds himself mixed up in guerilla warfare.
Here and there the beaten English, many
of them civilians, were keeping up a hopeless:
sort of fight. Guerilla warfare was inevit-
able* “It was in history from Greece to
the Transvaal. France had done this;
Spain, America, Cuba. It was a universal
habit.” And Australia will do it, too.
Then, attempting to escape from this dan-
gerous zone, Brun and Agnes fall into the
hands of drunken German soldiers. Brun’s
fate is to be knocked senseless. Agnes’s
fate is worse. When Brun recovers he goes
mad. He kills two German soldiers—and
he isn’t a soldier; he has no lic'ense to
kill. The General points this out to him
when he is captured.
Brun looked at the General. lie was, for
the first time in his life, facing things
squarely. He was facing war. This re-
lentless thing he hadn’t troubled about, this
thing he had permitted to descend upon him
without a thought was going to kill him. It
had killed, or worse than killed, all that he
loved most in the world. Now it was going
to kill him. In a clear light he saw that
it was his own fault. He had ignored it all
along, he had refused to recognise the fact
that it could touch him. He might have
faced it in its beginnings and prevented
it. ...He saw all the men in this stricken
countryside who might have banded together,
to prevent what had happened, and so lived
.... He would die, not because he had killed
two troopers, but because he had permitted
a state of things in which he had been doomed
to kill two troopers....
As the firing party stepped briskly away
the General Officer lay back in his chair.
His eyes were tired and sad. He was won-
dering why people refused to know these
things, refused to see.
Copies of this book should be sent to all
Geese Societies, all Quakers, and the Minis-
ter for Defence who is diffident about equip-
ping our army with up-to-date air-craft.
They would all like to be non-combatants.
Kathleen Watson’s pale prose for pale
people, Litanies of Life and Later Litanies,
now appear in half-crown editions, pub-
lished by Heinemann.
Every picture tells a stc-ry in Arthur
Wright’s latest “Bookstall” shilling’s worth,
In the Last Stride. The cover shows a
knock-out at the Stadium, the frontispiece
shows a fight on the football field, another
illustration shows an opium-smuggling inci-
dent, and in the rest there are fights, the
heroine struggling with the villain, horses
and revolvers, more Chinamen, and the de-
tective reading “the papers.” With these
ingredients is it any wonder that, according
to the publishers, the sales of Arthur
Wright’s four earlier “Bookstall” thrillers
have reached nearly 60,000 volumes? Who.
says that the higher, or jockey-and-biff, lit-
erature doesn’t pay in Australia?
A rattling good yarn, in which the author
has made shrewd use of our early history,
is Don Delaney’s A Rebel of the Bush
(N.S.W. Bookstall Cos., Sydney, Is.). In
the colony ruled by Governor Macquarie
Don Delaney has set an exciting story of
love and adventure, culminating in the
Bathurst insurrection.
E. Bruce Mitford, in Japan's Inheritance
(Uowin, per Sydney Book Club), points out
that the late Emperor’s Rescript—a sort of
modern decalogue for Young Japan—has two
notable omissions: two commandments are
missing: “Thou slialt not steal” and “Thou
shalt not commit adultery.” He also men-
tions that when a train in which he was
travelling in Japan was stopped by an “acci-
dent,” he, in common with all the passengers
got down in time to see a suicide being
scraped off the wheels; but the attitude of
the Japs was, to him, more horrible than the
other mess. “Neither horror, nor disgust,
nor pity could be traced upon a single face.
If the general expression might be summed
up in a phrase, it was one of amused in-
terest. ‘Only another case of shinju [sui-
cide] !’ laughed the beholders.” We learn,
too, that the Japs make a point of winning
over to their side the most important for-
eign correspondents and exponents of
opinion. “One of their greatest hauls was
the late correspondent of the London Times ;
another was the representative of the Ameri-
can Associated Press. .. .Newspapers pledged
"to uphold Jap interests have been established
in Seoul, Peking. New York and San Fran-
cisco. .. .The Jap has the advantage of all
other Orientals in courage and versatility,
but there his superiority ends. He lacks the
more solid qualities of the Chinaman.” The
book is just readable.
It appears, from Famous Fights at the
Stadium, by C. A. Jeffries (The Platypus
Press, Sydney), that there is a place of
that name situated at Rushcutter’s Bay, and
that there various persons have acquired the
habit of hitting each other violently on the
jaw or thereabouts, and that a number of
citizens have been, accustomed to gather
together to view the proceedings. 0.
A. Jeffries, who is apparently a bloke
who has attended both afternoon and
evening services since the consecration
of the building, narrates, in picturesque
Jeffrese, the strange and abrupt hap
penings in that locality; and has fin-
nished photographs of the chief participants
in the succession of frays, posed in attitudes
of prayer. If there is anybody on this con-
tinent who is interested in these doings, he
will find the whole drama of what is called
Stoush herein graphically and authorita-
tively unrolled. It is an Epic of Biff. It
may be mentioned that 0. A. Jeffries is
rumored to be the individual who narrates
these prsh-happenings weekly in another
page of The Bulletin ; and that the book
is sold for one shilling. It is regrettable, to
have to add that the publication is now in
its second edition.


A.
'uce
m
w
go
2930
2573
2561
0 £6.6 0 0 £5.50
21803
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Winter FASHION BOOK
Is an authoritative guide to the
prevailing modes. The illustra-
tions faithfully depict selections
from the noteworthy display in the
Green Room of Charming Recep-
tion Dresses and Evening Gowns,
Rich Fur Sets and Smart Ready-
to-Wear Costumes, Blouses and
Skirts. Fashions for Young Aus-
tralia are also shown, as well as
the New Millinery, Seasonable
Footwear and Lingerie. Write for
a copy, post free on application ;
it brings the wonderful selection
of Smart Winter Styles within
reach of ladies all over the land.
Our Illustrated Price Lists place
the immense resources of the
New Palace Emporium at the
command of everyone. Write
for copies, post free anywhere.
THE NEW FROCKS
! No. 2930. — Corduroy Cloth Coat and Skirt, Coat
has inlet Vest effect of Ivory Moire Antique, finished Lace and
frill at neck and wrists, made in Raglan style and trimmed
self loop Buttons, high-waisted Skirt, with shaped seams;
Grey, Brown, Saxe and Navy 72/6
No. 2573.—Very Smart Coat and Skirt Costume,
in new Jacquard Cloth, has Vest of Broche Velvet Persian
and Belt of folded Satin, Neck edged Black Fur and finished
Frog Fastener, Skirt has lap seams, opens at foot in front;
Lime, Mole, Dark Saxe or Grey £6/6/»
No. 2561.— An Attractive Model Coat and Skirt
Costume, in new French Boncle Tweed, with fancy Vest
of Velvet Brocade, Collar and Cuffs of plain Velvet in con-
trasting shades to tone, smartly shaped at waist and trimmed
new Pebble Buttons, perfectly-cut, high-waisted Skirt,
finished shaped lap seams ; in Tan with Black, or Royal with
Black Mixtures £5/5/-
No. 21803. — A Dressy Coat and Skirt, in Corduroy
Serge, the cut-away Basque is pleated at back, Collar and
Cuffs trimmed plain Cloth in shades to tone, finished at neck
with Silk Tie and fringe ends, high-waisted, three-piece
Skirt has inverted lap seams at back; Navy, Cinnamon,
) Brown or Black 63/-
No. 2562.— Very Dressy Coat and Skirt, has the
fashionable loose Coat, slightly pleated into wide waist
band, the Collar, V-shaped Cuffs and buttons are of the new
Suede Velear in shades to tone, high-waisted, four-piece
Skirt has wide-stitched lap seams, made in Navy Cheviot
with Reseda, Tan and Saxe trimmings 47/6
' No. 2532/2. — Navy and Black Coat and Skirt, in
rough Serge, Collar and folded Belt of Black Satin, slightly
eased into Basque at waist, well-cut, high-waisted four-
piece Skirt has lap seams back and front, finished Satin
buttons 18/11
No. 2400. — Very Durable Coat and Skirt, in Navy
Cheviot Serge, Collar, Cuffs and buttonholes are trimmed
with plain Cloth in either Lime, Tan or Grey, smartly cut
at back, slightly eased into shaped piece at waist, trimmed
braid buttons, well-cut, four-piece Skirt, with lap seam
back and front 36/9
No. 2501. — Useful Coat and Skirt, in shadow stripe
Tweed, well-cut Coat trimmed on Collar with Black Satin,
plain, nicely-shaped Skirt, in Brown and Grey . . 22 / 6
Same style, in Navy Serge Cloth, trimmed Silk’Braid, suitable
for good, hard wear 21/9
Se, ’£e Coat and Skirt, in Navy or
Black, Revers on Coat finished Black Corded Silk, shaped
pieces on sides trimmed bone buttons, strap at back ; Skirt
is high-waisted and has wide lap seams 25/9
£
I
\
SS*5
*33
250
2^6>
■2#
22 6
36/9
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKneld Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


I
m
VA
s 9
Big Game
CARTRIDGES
The time of all others when reli-
able cartridges are invaluable is
in big-game hunting. A miss-fire,
an inaccurate cartridge, or one
having poor penetration may
mean the loss of a coveted trophy
or even injury to the hunter.
Winchester the W brand—of
big-game cartridges, either smoke-
less or black powder, can always
be relied on to be sure fire, accur-
ate and to have the proper speed
and penetration. You can help
MAKE YOUR HUNT A
, SUCCESS BY USING %
THEM.
,
hi
•i\l
m
t-ji
i- - j
U'P
iff
if
c.-i
S«
l|.V'
ft
ii
se
'f
•yt§
.vs;
I
2^
Ik\
''T/P'r
'■i
SSa«
%
v/ '/
2
*
Watermans(jdoai)Fountain Pen.
s* '
nrt> L
N
IBS TO SUIT
ALL HANDS
Economise Time, La-
bour and Money by pur-
chasing ancl regularly
using Waterman’s Ideal
Fountain Pen. You will
work quicker, with less
effort and better result;
and the one pen will,
with ordinary care, last
a lifetime.
In four types—Regular,
Safety, Self-Filling and
Pump-Filling.
Sold by Stationers
& JewellerB everywhere.
L. & 0. HARDTMUTH. Ltd.,
LONDON, England.
(Australia':
350, George Sfc, Sydney.)
Write'for booklet.
d
ZJ
I
V
AnSfl
Underwear.
You cannot know how comfortable under-
wear can be until you have worn Jason.
Immediately you put it on you realise the difference from the
oer ert? f J ,'u b ? au "f“W soft aad siik like, and so
per ec y fashioned that it fits easily and comfortably. The
perfectly knitted all-Australasian Wool fabric forms an imper-
good he™" aBamSt Cha " BeS °K Weather and makes lar
And Jason is absolutely unshrinkable-
shrinks will be replaced.
-any garment that
Jason Underwear is made in all styles and prices
wLT'ru a P d ch , ild,cn - Infants’ pure while '
?nr J"u' eh ° nd me , diu ’n weights. Jason Jerseys
not Vf Ji ? roear 'P le ndidly. If your dealer does
not stock Jason insist upon his getting it for you.
In case of difficulty, write
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, England.
m
DEVELOP YOUR MOUSTACHE.
you-'should develop your moustache.
CAPILLARINE
*1 „ sple ' lclid .moustache producer. Its results are truly wonderful—it never
tails to give satisfaction. No matter how poor and thin von-
fine flowing ll Pr sal wIU in a short time produce a
e, inousl.iche. Hundreds have proved it—win- not you ?
SEND FOR A JAR TO-DAY—IO/6 ltost free
!he °. A. Moimtache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
,1/0 ' 0/6 each > ! Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEIM,
654 George Street, Sydney
Established 30 Years.
LOOK AT
ME!
I am a living witness to the marvellous curative
properties of
VITADATIO
Eighteen years ago I was declared absolutely
incurable by three of the finest physicians in New
Zealand. I had suffered for fourteen years from
HYDATIDS
and had tried all the ordinary advertised
medicines, doctors, and herbalists, but without
any permanent benefit, and at last underwent an
operation, but was then pronounced incurable.
I was advised to try VITADATIO, and as a
result of giving this now famous medicine a
consistent trial, was thoroughly cured. My cure
took place seventeen years ago, and 1 am still in
PERFECT HEALTH
and have introduced this great medicine through-
out the world, and marvellous cures have been
effected by Australia’s Great Remedy in all
countries.
m
In these enlightened times everyone knows that disease attacks the system owms-
i. cll'i. 0 -' 1 ’ “ d " VITADATIO is a natural herbal blood motor
LIVER AND KIDNEY DISEASES
TUMOUROUS GROWTHS
GALL STONES
INDIGESTION RHEUMATISM
NERVOUS DISORDERS
CHEST TROUBLES
BLADDER TROUBLES
SKIN DISEASES
s. A. PALMER, 439 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE. VIC.
give
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS,
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRAIJE MARK
m
SPLENDID S.B.B.L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra long range.
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/6. D.B.B.L. GUN, fitted with
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified steel barrels,
"'“„ st ° c . k ’,.P istol GOVERNMENT tested. an excellent
KILLER. Holiday Price, £3/10/- D.B.B.L. GUN. choke and modified steel
'jan-eU. Government Tested. THE FARMER’S FRIEND. Snecial Price,
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 22 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice and
i;S'ht. A very accurate little weapon. THE YOUTH’S FAVORITE. Holidav
• rl , C f’ CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent ejector. Takes .22
long, .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best sellers. Holiday
Price, 18/6. Write for Our Catalogue.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Largest Importers of Arms and Ammunition in the Commonwealth
242-4 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
I - I
A.
MISS JEANNE BROLA
-THE POWER—
BEHIND THE BRAIN.
Madame Jeanne Brola, the
distinguished Artiste-Sopi-ano
of the Quinlan Opera Co..
and whose vocal ability and
operatic talent has been the
surprise of Sydney audi-
ences, writes of the Great
Nerve and Brain Medicine:
CLEMENTS
-TONIC-
Her Majesty’s Theatre,
CLEMENTS TONIC Ltd. 24/iO/’l3.
“The Quinlan Opera Co.’s Season is fast drawing to a close, and,
before leaving Australia I would like to express my opinion of your
sideiidid medicine.
“During this season my work has been of a very strenuous
character, which tided my strength to its utmost, and I am certain
that only the use of your recuperative medicine saved me from a
nervous breakdown.
“I have only good words to say of it.”
I am, Sirs, yours sincerely,
JEANNE BROLA.
All Chemists and Stores sel/ this Medicine for the relief of
Insomnia, Debility and Anaemia.


All is Food in
m
Food
When you prepare Bender’s
Food with iresh new milk, it
forms a dainty and delicious
cream. In this form, all the
nutritive elements in both the
milk and the Food itself are
made soluble, ready for bodily
nutrition.
Consequently Benger’s is
assimilated with ease, even
in illness, when other food
2
178 A
causes pain
and distress.
Benger's Booklet-A little
work of authority on the
special feeding of Children,
Invalids, and tne Aged, will
be sent post free on appli-
cation to
BENGER'S FOOD, Ltd.
MANCHESTER, Eng.
Branch Offices—
Nhvv York (u.s.a.)
92, VVillidin Street.
SYDNEY (N.S.W.).
117, Pitt Street*
Canadian Agents—
National Drug ani
Chemical Co Ltd.,
34, St. Gabriel Street,
Montreal,and branches
throughout Canada.
Benger's Food is sold
by Druggies, etc.,
everywhere .
“I simply can’t account
for this trouble with my
teeth —and I’ve been so
particular to keep them
immaculately clean
always.” This is the com-
plaint of thousands.
It’s just this way,
Madam. You’ve spent
your time watching the
h igh way me n robbers of
tooth-health — Decay
Germs —and forgot all
about their sly insidi-
ous accomplice —“ Acid
Mouth.”
PGBCCO
| TOOTH PASTE
And here lies the danger.
These mouth-acids, unmolested,
unsuspected, gradually dissolve,
break down, the enamel. The
tooth then becomes easy prey to
decay germs.
Look out for “ acid mouth,,’’
that filcher and falcon of healthy
tooth life. Pebeco Tooth Paste
users have a good chance to keep
their teeth for life.
A sample of “ Pebeco ” and an
interesting test, by which yon
may prove its value, sent FREE.
Of all Chemists.
Large tubes, l/<>; Small, 1/-
G. ARNOLD,
6 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
(Wholesale only.) (jiS\
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St
BRISBANE : Webster & Co.. Ltd., Mary St.-
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Ans. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
mHE Best Stories written by Australian
X Writers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price. 6d. monthly.
Bonning'ton’
Jubes
For the VOICE * *
THROAT (SL LUNGS
Possess many of the unique and valuable curative properties of Bonnington's Irish Moss.
They afford immediate relief uj, case of Sore or Relaxed Throat, Loss of Voice, Huskiness,
Spasmodic Cough, Bronchial Trouble etc. Whilst soothing and antiseptic in their action,
these Jubes are entirely free from all poisonous or other harmful substances.
•o^p
CA/fJf.
YA/.
fjR/s//
vS-
gg£
A PLEASANT AND EFFECTIVE COUCH PASTILLE
SUITABLE FOR BOTH ADULTS AND CHILDREN
BONNINGTON’S TUBES are highly recom-
mended for use by Public Speakers and
Singers. The Travelling Public will also And
them Ihe best and most convenient Throat
Pastille. SOLD EVERYWHERE
Price, 1/3 per tin
If not obtainable locally, send price in
stamps to
Bonnington &. Co., Ltd.
179 HARRIS STREET - - SYDNEY
DRUNKENNESS Cured
Any lady ran cure flic most violent drunkard —secretly—at home. GOLDEN SPECIFIC lias no
odor or taste, and can bo taken by the most delicate person of either sex. It totally eradicates
all craving: for stimulants, creating: a lasting antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases
are cured in a few da vs with this treatment. ... Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAM PEE and
full particulars. THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., Dept. B. 2011,94 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
m
s&e
O
&
sags
m
Gan be Developed to Normal.
It matters not if yon have been thin and scraggly for years/ even if you
never were properly developed your measurements can be increased to normal
and your figure nicely rounded out to pleasing, plump proportions. It is
done every day for others—why not you?
Manager. Falliere Co. Hekeia, N.Z.
Dear Sir.—l am well pleased with the results from using Flesh-
Food and the general improvement in my eondition, for whieh
I thank you very much indeed, for my husband and I are both
well pleased.
Front the very beginning I improved wonderfully—the giddiness that had bothered
me for years disappeared, as did the rheumatism from my legs. Doth of these
troubles had caused me much severe suffering.
My limbs were thinnest, and they began to noticeably increase first of all, ending
in a nine-inch increase in my hip measurement. A general development now became
noticeable, and my chest and bust filled out.
I had now gained all 1 needed —a full stone in weight. As I have lost neither
weight nor measurements since stopping the treatment, I consider the results per-
manent. Yours very truly, MRS. H. HODGES.
Flesh-Food is totally harmless in every respect. Its efficacy is beyond question, and its
use is.no demand-upon the subject’s time. Many cases have gained up to six pounds a week,
and an increase in bust measurement up to eight and ten inches is possible. Flesh-Pood offers
relief and development to the thousands of chronically thin women who have despaired of ever
possessing a presentable figure. It is a nerve and tissue food treatment that adds weight and
permanent development to attenuated women. Guarantee given in every case accepted.
Let us send
you a Free
Sample.
TRIAL SAMPLE FREE.
We publish an interesting l bonk on the
subject of attenuation anrl development
jiim'I..will send same and a Free Sample Treatment to yon FREE OF CHARGE
upon receipt of a 2d. stamp to pay part postage. All communications are
treated as strictly confidential. (1823)
FlLLIKKE I'LESH-FOOD CO., 1103 ASH STREET,
SYDNEY.
r
Ideal for
Australian
Roads.
CYCLES AND MOTOR CYCLES.
w
Victoria: MILLEDGE BROS., 264 Post Office Place, Melbourne.
New South Wales: BENNETT & BARKELL LTD., 130-132 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
South Australia: J. HILL & SONS. 'Representatives, 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
EYES & CROWLE. Local Distributors, 126 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
West Australia: THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth.
Queensland: THE HOWARD MOTOR & CYCLE CO., LTD., 376-8 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Tasmania: J. BILYARD, The Havelock Cycle and Motor Works, 141 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
TOBACCO KILLS!
c\
%
Face to Face with Death !
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. 11. Smith, of Park Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “I was a hard smoker for 30
years, but since talzina your sample of Tobacco
Specific I have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G,
107 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. [3.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have yon grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austra-
lasian. Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices. 115 High Tlol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Local Spirit.
The Local Spirit never dies,
Though it is mostly rotten,
For Local Spite and local lies
Can never be forgotten ;
The local truth dies very young
When wed to local merit:
’Tis murdered by the envious tongue.
And —that’s the Local Spirit.
The General Good is sacrificed. .
In spite of all petitions
To paltry private interests
And local mean ambitions.
And when we lose ’neath fortune’s frown
The manhood we inherit,
The Local Spirit treads us down—
For that’s the Local Spirit.
But, though they may be very few,
And poor as autumn stubble,
The local friends are leal and true
Whenever one’s in trouble.
They make a man hold up his head
And face the world and dare it!
And that’s —when all is done and said —
The other Local Spirit.
rj.s.w.
HENRY LAWSON.
Seawater.
“Tell me, truly, seawater on your, lips, as the
fishermen say.”— Robert Hicliens.
A flower before your car and the red sun in
your eyes
By ihe grass-green tinkling wavelets and the
blue Dalian skies,
While over there amid the haze, the pearl of
Naples lies....
Tell me that you love me, caro mio, tell me
true,
With the water on your warm lips, ladled
from the Blue,
While my hot Southern glances drown there
in love of you !
With the great grave Saint behind you,' San
Francisco of the rocks,
With the sunlight on the villa and the liz-
ards on the blocks,
By a linger of the ocean that upon the ruin
knocks....
Pale as grape bloom on the hillside lies the
spinning of the mist,
As the wraith of last night’s moon hours
when two lovers met and kist.
While the little winds chid “Hasten!” and
the little waves cried “Hist!”
And the oars above the silent pool were
plashing in and out,
And far off along the mainland we could
hear the singers shout,
Till a chain of silver music linked the silver
isles about....
Now he leaves me to the sunshine. . . .and
the water is so clear
I can see the nodding shadow of the flower
at his ear
As lie sings “Addore” for the wide, blue
world to hear.
Before the feathers of the storm the world
is still and grey.
Ischia has an ebon wing spread quivering to
the bay,
And.... was the truth upon his tongue'be-
fore he rowed away?
The shrinking sun, a copper ball, is smoul-
dering through the cloud.
I think, although he spoke the word, yet
low he never bowed
To fill his palm and touch his lips with
water, as he vowed....
There’s a twisted street in Naples over there
across the bay.
And lie turned his face unto it and his boat
was set that way.
. . . .<S7ie is shaped like a Madonna. . . .but a
devil in her play !
* * *
The storm is on the waters and high the
grey witch rides,
She has called her demon lovers, and the
In.l low of the tides
Makes rings of foam for those who woo the
Witches for their brides. . . .
All the yellow light of morning has been
quenched in wrack and rain,
But a fisher boat is drifting to the- still
Saint's pool again,
And the billows that have brought it at the
gates of Death complain.
Does she laugh among her lovers with the
narrow panes shut tight.
Does she set a red lamp in the niche to
guide him through the night,
While / crouch down to read the truth on
dead lips....wet and white!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
My Request.
When I am living you may let me be
Or in your kind consideration urn me :
But when I’m dead make no delay, I beg
But promptly burn me.
Old Mother Earth wlio fed and nourished me
Through all the hours of life has done her
share;
Good taste forbids that I should cumber her
With the soiled garments I no longer wear.
Of course you cannot quite obliterate
My shell, and to its elements return it.
But you .can to a white and harmless ash
Considerately burn it.
The dust-to-dust command we think we keep
When six feet deep we tuck away our
dead.
But centuries may pass before the wol'd
“Disintegration” can be truly said.
Poor human frame! Unto what dread re-
morse
Does foul decay in horrid cycles turn it.
He is my best friend who will take my corse
And kindly burn it.
X.R.W.
AGNES L. STORRIE.


aron
CIGARETTES.
Regular cigarette smokers get far more satisfaction
from SARONY Cigarettes, because they are of such
high-grade quality, and have a decidedly mild flavor
and pleasing aroma. For the same reasons SARONY
never fails to satisfy the casual cigarette smoker.
In TURKISH or VIRGINIA.
ALL LEADING TOBACCONISTS.
Manufactured by
NICOLAS SARONY 8 CO., New Bond Street, London, W.
I
(. ym
Lister-Bruston
Automatic
Electric
Lighting
Plant
m
FOR LIGHTING IN PRIVATE
RESIDENCES, HOTELS, SHOPS,
PUBLIC HALLS, etc.
This plant (as illustrated, complete)
generates electricity automatically. The
Engine and Dynamo start themselves as
soon as the lights are switched on. The
Lamps are lit direct from the Dynamo,
obviating a large and costly storage bat-
tery. Current is available for lighting at
any time.
The Plant is self-
contained, not fixed
to the floor, and
thus, as a tenant’s
fixture, may be
moved from place
to place. It is low
in cost, and deliv-
er e d practically
ready for connect-
ing up to the house
wiring.
AGENTS:
vir W c7r™nm * S°- LTD i 279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND-WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
Have You Ever Calculated
how much money you lose every year because your addition
and calculations are still made by the slow mental method?
Avoid errors and worry, and save time by employing
in your office the
Adds
Multiplies
Comptometer?
Divides
Subtracts
Pounds, Shillings, Pence and Farthings,
Errors are often costly, and mistakes
made in casting up long columns of figures
in the old way are always probable. With
the use of the Comptometer errors cannot
creep into your work.
The illustration shows the Compto-
meter in use. It is operated by
Keys like a typewriter, but is
much simpler and easier to
learn, as it has only 11 differ-
ent keys.
Write for Free Boole, “Rapid
Mechanical Calculationand
other particulars.
V
«
S
pm
k
mm
FELT & TARRANT JVLFQ. CO.,
London, Berlin, Paris, St. Petersburg, Vienna, Buenos Aires, New York etc.
aqents ~~ pea COCK BROS., 214-216 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
m
Dinneford's
Magnesia
PINNEFORD’S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S"
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
\ -
\
\
\
\
i>x
u
W
ffll
&/>e
OILSKIN.
Best for Driving, Riding, Walking,
Motoring and General uses.
Note the large, overlapping sheath and
side buttons, which give this coat a
W/jfe apron front, and absolutely pre-
sent any water from penetrating.
Ask your Storekeeper to
show you a “WATERSHED.”
Made in two weights
“Dugon g-Watershed,” light
weight, for general use... . 32/e
“Rainbow-Watershed,” stout
make, for rough wear...... as/*
We shall be pleased to forward a
copy of our new, Illustrated List, post
free on request.
If unable to obtain your "Watershed”
locally, send order direct to us.
We pay carriage.
PERDRIAU Rm"
27# George Street, SYDNEY.
Also
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE*
Brisbane-.
.r
■■ V
The Accordeon with
MELLOW TONE
Is just, perfection for Song Accompaniments, Dance Music
and Picnics. The Organ-like Tone of these Instruments
IS attained by the use of Bell Metal Reeds, w'hfc'h ‘tire hand -
fitted and tuned.
tWftgfe frpPO'Lftß MODELS.
TWE ORGAN TONED MELBA
3 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, post free.
THE DANCE KING
4 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-, post free
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15/-, post free
OTHER MODELS FROM 7/6 TO 40/-
For Free Catalogue No. 9 write to—
t ft
276 COLLINS STREET,MELBOURNE,
and also at Bendigo and Geelong.
fißc v
:'_«S
f. - ,
turn
Arrival of the
New 6-40 Hudson Cars
128 picked engineers built the New Hudson 6-40 Car, whereas previously these
experts, working individually, had a hand in the construction of over 20,000
automobiles of 9/ well-known makes. But, working together, they have far
outstripped any individual effort. For, by concentrating all the vast experience
and skill gleaned in 97 famous factories of the world, these men have built
I motor-car masterpieces. _
In the New Hudson Cars there is nothing in the operation of the car that
cannot be accomplished from the driver’s seat. They fulfil every demand made
of automobiles in speed, power, getaway, safety, luxurious equipment, distinc-
tive appearance and comfort.
The New Hudson is built with 5-seated
Touring Phaeton Body, with 2 extra
folding seats, finished in Grey, with
Nickel Fittings and real Leather Up-
holstery, and is supplied with “Delco”
Patent Self-cranking Electric Starting
and Lighting Outfit. 12-inch Electric
Headlights. 7-inch Electric Sidelights.
Electric Tail-light. Electric Light on
Dash. Electric Portable Light. Spe-
cial One-man Hood, with Hood Enve-
lope and Side Curtains. Glass Wind-
screen. Speedometer. Clock, Horn.
Tyre Pump. Lifting Jack. Complete
Kit of Tools. Artillery or detachable
Wire Wheels. Spare, Demountable
Rim, with Tyre and Tyre Holder,
Luggage Carrier or Spare Wire
Wheel complete with Tyre, Domed
Mud Guards. Rug-rail and Footrest,
and Magnetic Petrol Gauge.
Trial Demonstrations arranged. Cata-
logue with full particulars on request.
Dalgety and Company Ltd.
Motor Garage,
136-138 Phillip Street, Sydney.
Also Agents for Daimler, F.N., Delaunay-Belleville, Rover, Austin,
Opel, Cutting and Marathon Cars. Halley and Commer Motor Lorries.
Baker Electric Cars and Trucks. Willys Utility Trucks.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Otlice, Sydney, for Transmission by Pose as a Newspaper.
Vol. 3f>.—No. 1785.
THURSDAY, APRIL 30, 1914.
I'kick !»I).
NEW SOUTH WALES’ OLD MAN OF THE SEA.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the AVliite Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for Tiie Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
Ceorge Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: }
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
£1 Gs. (id. per Annum, including Special
Christmas Number, post paid.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings and Sixpence Sterling you van have
The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (.and, to an extent, themselves ) by taking some
cure as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
11 is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy/’ Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
. The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short
Talcs or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say. 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions arc observed . When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of .a current event, wilt be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but. unfitted for direct reproduction — i.eany picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., : 1,1,1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bag City News Co.. San Francisco; Quaker
Neus Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 685
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queens Find. Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs
Atkinson and Co. and liigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at
i/6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in.
x l),in., and gelatine transparencies will be for-
warded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if. desired.
Postage Rates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) Throughout the Commonwealth, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Biitish New Guinea. Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz., Id. ; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 160 z., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: Boz., Id 84o»
to lOoz., 2 Id.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, l,oz'
Id., and Id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, APRIL 30, 1014.
THREE MEN WHO MAKE BRICKS
WITHOUT STRAW.
In the wicked, muddled old days that decent
citizens hoped were dead, but which aie,
perhaps, less dead than they should be, every
branch of the public service in every State
was a hunting-ground for politicians. No
man got a public job in that stirring period
unless some politician recommended him.
Very few men retained their jobs if they
neglected to keep an eye on the local mem-
ber or some other member, for if the billet
was wanted to placate a more valuable sup-
porter the less valuable one who held it had
to sro. These were strenuous times and occa-
sions, when every man’s hand was against
every other man, and each person was a law
unto himself, and did what was bad in his
own sight. Sometimes there were as many
as three men holding one billet. The poli-
tician who secured most civil service situa-
tions for his crowd was re-elected, and the
one who secured fewest situations wasn’t. As
a further development of the position, the
Minister who found most jobs for the con-
stituents of the members who supported him
most strenuously hung on longest to his port-
folio. There were a few glorious years of
this sort of adventure, and then a deadly
weariness came over the politicians. When
at last a member had to shove over 1000 of
his supporters into the railway service to
make his seat reasonably secure, he longed
to be able to tell all applicants that he had
no patronage or influence whatsoever, and
couldn’t find employment for even a dog.
That was how the habit arose of putting
appointments aud promotions in the hands
of Commissioners, and regulating the busi-
ness by a process of examination. It may be
a dull, wooden, rule-of-thumb arrangement,
but then nothing is perfect, and even the
most ignorant folk aren’t infallible. Now
that some of the old methods are returning
in the N.S.W. railway service, which is the
biggest public service of the most populous
State, it is worth while to remember that
they are veiy old methods, and that, to
people who are old enough to remember them,
the odor of them is something terrible.
The devices that are returning are not as
yec exactly the old ones, but they are already
a very colorable imitation. Minister Hoyle,
tire busy meddler and muddler who had his
biggest financial Bill twice ruled out by
reason of incompetent draftsmanship, has
made it clear that -there is to be a great in-
crease of political interference with the rail-
ways. Some of his colleagues have spoken
to the same effect. Certainly there has never
been a complete lack of interference. The
State Legislature has always retained full
control of the railway policy. It has re-
tained the right to decide where new lines
are to be built, and how they are to be built;
to regulate fares, wages, working hours, and
many other details. But it has stopped
short of late at the actual sale of jobs
in return for aid. The appointment of
Bill to be junior assistant porter at Dan-
daloo, and the reprimanding or fining of Bill
when he sent some choleric bagman’s lug-
gage to Melbourne instead of Milparinka, and
the final removal or abolition of Bill when
his habit of shoving belated passengers into
the wrong train became chronic—these things
have been left to the Commissioners. The
old habit by which the politician tried to
catch a vote by taking up the grievance of
Bill on Bill’s ex parte statement that he
was a wronged and persecuted bloke has been
suspended for a number of years. As the
present N.S.W. Government has threatened
to abate the pomp and tyranny of the Kail-
way Commissioners, it is presumed that poli-
ticians .are to resume their active personal
interest in Bill. That is about the only way
in which the pomp and tyranny of the Com-
missioners can be abated.
As a first instalment of the new disarrange-
ment of things, Minister lloyle recently de-
livered an addiess to a number of railway
men at Bathuist, and made them a number
of promises which may help to secure poli-
tical support, but which don’t promise to
make the railways any safer to travel on.
In the first place, he said that the cruelties
perpetrated on the sluggish stock train —-the
vehicle in which sheep and cattle die of thirst
or hunger or both, while the delayed contrap-
tion is hung up at sidings or dawdling along
at an average rate of one mile per hour —
must cease. The chronic lateness of pas-
senger trains must cease. The chronic stop-
pages in the bottle-neck entrance to Sydney’s
one big station must cease. Almost everything
must cease, and if the present Commissioners
don't know how to ai range all this cessation
it will be a question of finding new Commis-
sioners. At the same time, lloyle promised
to abolish the “please explain” order. At
present, when something goes wrong on the
impossibly congested and tangled railways of
N.S.W., the wearied Commissioners send a
form to be filled up by the officer who was
nearest to the trouble —the man who was
driving the train when it fell one hour behind
its schedule, or the person who was in charge
of the signal when it didn’t work, or the in-
dividual who bossed the station where the
collision happened or the dog committed sui-
cide. The document is a nuisance, and is
widely disliked, but it represents the constant
effort of the men in charge to find out how
to do the impossible, and how to prevent
Hoyle’s relations and other travellers, like-
wise railway servants, cows and keas of beer,
being killed too often on one of the worst-
planned railway systems in the world. And
it is at least fairly polite, for most railway
systems don’t say “please.” What a
Private Enterprise system says is much
more like “damn.” Hoyle’s assurance
that railway employees won’t, in future,
be even asked for an explanation or a theory
or a fragment of information when things go
wrong, suggests a very anxious scuffle after
political support. And his broad hint that
unless everything goes right in future the
present Commissioners may lose their jobs im-
plies that no railway employees except the
Commissioners ever make mistakes, and that
the absolutely perfect Government of which
Minister lloyle is a member, never makes
mistakes either, and that it has supplied the
Commissioners with a railway system which
only requires decently sane management to be
a complete success. The attitude of Hoyle
doesn’t make for the discipline which pre-
vents one train climbing on top of another.
But as a compliment to a very big voting-
interest, and as a self-presented testimonial
or bouquet thrown at himself, there is a
great deal to be said for it. Also, it is a
strong appeal to the public. “These things.”
says Hoyle, “must cease,” and there is
nothing the Cornstalk public wants more
earnestly than that a long procession of
things should cease.
* * * *
Meanwhile, the case for the Commission-
ers—the men who have only three votes, and
perhaps den’t count—has some points of
interest. They have to manage the railways,
being appointed to that job by the abso-
lutely perfect Government of which lloyle
is a member, because the unblemished Gov-
ernment of which lloyle is a member didn't
know any better. N.S.W. possesses about
39?0 miles of railway open for business,
and. except for a pnrelv local coal
traffic which centres at Newcastle, almost
everything that these Hues carry parses
through or into or out of Sydney. The 3930
miles of railway form a big proposition.
Great Britain has a little over 20.000 miles
of- railway, but then its lines converge, for
purposes of foreign trade, on Loudon, Car-
diff, Liverpool, Birkenhead, the Tyne ports
(several of them), Southampton, Hull, the
Clyde ports (Glasgow, Port Glasgow and
Greenock), Newport, Aberdeen, Blyth,
Dover, Plymouth, Swansea, Sunderland,
Middlesbro’, Grimsby, Leith, Manchester,
Methil, Grangemouth, Goole, Hartlepool,
Burntisland, Harwich, Bristol, and a num-
ber besides. Twenty thousand miles of rail-
way carrying foreign trade to and from 40
or more ports are a very different proposi-
tion from nearly 4000 miles of railway shov-
ing trade on to one port. Again, less than
half the mileage in Great Britain is single
iiue, and the single lines are located in lone-
some regions far away from the harbors
where the foreign trade congregates. The
hauls are short. The country is so small,
and the ports where foreign commerce hangs
its banner on the outer wall are so many,
that it is only in rare cases that the railway
management at a shipping centre has to
steer any great quantity of goods over more
than 100 or 150 miles of country. And the
idea of crowding all the trade of a big city
tlnough one bottle-neck into one station
has never dawned on these unenterprising
British folk. Glasgow, which has very little
more population tnan Sydney, and rather
less shipping than Sydney, considers itself
badly served with four great railway sta-
tions similar to the Sydney Cential (save
that one of them is a sort of double decker,
having one class of traffic in the basement
and another upstairs) : with main lines run-
nine- right through the city; and with over-
head and underground lines for local t. attic.
The N.S.W. Railway Commissioners are
called upon to make bricks without straw.
In no other country on earth is a railway
management expected to steer the commerce
of so large and prosperous an area of coun-
try, and to hump the burden carried by so
many miles of railway—mostly single-line
railway—through one bottle-neck, into the
one dead-end station of one congested city.
Every time a new loan is floated (new loans
are being floated at an unprecedented rate),
arid a new branch line is opened (new branch
lines are being opened very often), and the
traffic is hurled at Sydney (the traffic is
always hurled at Sydney by reason of the
great Congestion policy), and the bill for
the loan money with which the new branch
is built is left to Posterity (the bill was
never left more fervently and unanimously
to Posterity), things grow a little worse.
The traffic becomes greater. The mileage of
line that converges on the bottle-neck
becomes longer. The multitude of petty
branch lines which have to connect accur-
ately with the main lines, unless somebody
is to be killed, grows more numerous. The
bulk of the traffic may be nothing remark-
able, but the length and complication of if,
and the lade of facilities for dealing with it
at the solitary dead-end or bottle-neck sta-
tion,_ are serious matters. Now the Com-
missioners are up against a Government
which apparently regards the railway ser-
vice, not so much as a device for carrying
goods and passengers as a scheme for acquir-
ing votes. The attitude of Minister Hoyle
—-who was once a railway employee himself,
though not a very notable one—is that the
general staff is so perfect (it has a heap of
votes), and the Congestion is so completely
beyond reproach (the Congestion party in
Sydney commands very many votes), and
the method on which new railways are being-
laid out by the Holman-Hoyle Government
is so wise (the Holman-Hoyle Government
naturally believes in itself), that nothing
can be wrong save by the default and in-
capacity of the Commissioners (the Commis-
sioners have only three votes). So Hoyle
says firmly that “These things must cease.”
SANE PAROCHIALISM.
Tiie Sydney Evening News is pre-eminently
the organ of Sydney. It is less capable than
any other paper of realising that there is
any place in N.S.W. except Sydney, and that
is saying a good deal. So it was character-
istic of the News that it recently allowed
one Hakkness to outpour himself eloquently
in its columns about the proposed “mad, reck-
less linldng-up” of certain portions of liiv-
erina with Melbourne. The excited contri-
butor pointed out that the distance from
Finley to Sydney is 454 miles, while that
from Finley to Melbourne is only IGG miles.
Therefore if the very few miles of line (about
13) are built which will finish the connec-
tion with Melbourne, the Finley farmers and
the farmers of a great area thereabouts will
save nearly 300 miles of railway carriage
and GOO miles of sea carriage on their wheat
exports; and to these good, bucolic N.S.W.
citizens the saving may make all the differ-
ence between comfort and beggary. It may
make them much more numerous and pros-
perous taxpayers and much more plentiful
defenders. And all this the E. News con-
tributor regarded as three different kinds of
horrible. At present, mainly because
of the impossible distance from the
only port with which they are permitted
to trade, the people of the region that all the
row is about are something of a failure.
They are of little value to man or dog. and
are of little use to themselves or anybody
else. And they are no asset worth mention-
ing to Sydney. The N.S.W. county of Tara,
handy to Portland. Adelaide and Port Pirie,
and located beside the Murray, where
the Murray is generally wet, ought
to do some good for itself; but then it is so
far from Sydney that railway communica-
tion couldn’t possibly pay, and it isn’t allowed
communication with its natural outlets. So
it has a steadily declining population which
is now less than one person to 12 square
miles, and it supplies the State canital with
little save old-age pension claims. Wentworth,
the next county, situated where the Murrav
and Darling join, had, despite the splendid
chances for irrigation, fewer people in 1911
than in 1891. Its record in 1911 was one
person to three square miles. Practically
all the counties of Ttiverina. except those
that connect easily with the adjacent port of
Melbourne by the main line, are in
the same category. They have very
little population. They are losing such
population as they have. They don’t
yield enough public income to pay for the
mounted cop who wanders over tlie face of
the country looking for the person who stole
the cow. And the most solid contribution*
they make to the wealth and glory and re-
venue and prosperity of the State is their'
old-age pension claims.
These counties of the South aud South-
West might supply a heap of revenue if they
had people to pay taxes and money with
which to pay taxes. But, as already men-
tioned, some of them have no railway to
carry their wheat and wool and hides and
meat to any place where the goods are
marketable, because the whole value of the
goods wouldn’t nay for freight to Sydney,
and no access is allowed' by any other ports.
And some of them have a railway to Sydney,
but the distance is so absurd and so need-
less, and it eats up so much of the profit, that
the game isn’t worth the candle. So N.S.W.
citizens depart or diminish or impoverish,
and cease to supply the big city with profit-
able business.
* * * *
The most remarkable chapter in the whole
gospel of Congestion is the N.S.W. port of
Twofold Bay. If railways were constructed
to Twofold Bay, and a city was laid ont
there, and every effort was made to give the
place a chance as a great sea-doorway for
foreign commerce, about a dozen N.S.W.
counties which arc now almost vacant, and
steadily becoming more vacant, would begin
to look up. They would boom just as much
as do the regions immediately adjacent to
Sydney—possibly more so, because they arc
much more fertile. And, incidentally, that
N.S.W. port would annex the trade ©*#
Eastern Victoria. Eastern Victoria has iro»
deep-water harbor of its own, but if N.S.W.
created a State-owned sub-metropolis about
Eden, the adjacent country over the border
would have a chance, and N.S.W. would reap
much profit. Any hardened and incurable
State Frighter should see that there
is a harvest to be gathered at Twofold
Bay. Its development would bring to life
and solvency, and even wealth, a great area
of N.S.W. which is now little more than
a hollow mendicant and an untenanted bank-
rupt. and this would be a material gain to
the State Tree •• It would put an end
to the clamor of u large section of N.S.W.
for means of communication with Melbourne,
b.v nroviding something much better in Corn-
stalk territory. And it would annex, for
all commercial purposes, a very consider-
able part of fire adjacent State to the State
about which the Evening News shows such
ill-regulated enthusiasm. The possibilities
of the case are obvious. There is a chance,
not only to greatly reduce the risk of the
hated hereditary enemy (Victoria) “looting”
l\Tq Sfnie. hut to vet in early and loot
the hated hereditary enemy. Yet because of
the noliev which regards Sydney as all
N.S.W., in a commercial sense, and every
nart of N.S.W. which isn’t Sydney as a
foreign country and a hostile proposition,
the opportunity is neglected. A sane paro-
chialism might do wonders in a matter like
this. But perhaps there is no such thing
as sane parochialism.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Religious Discourse.
Dear Bulletin, —A N.S.W. parson of the
Congregational persuasion—J. J. Willings
by name —driven well-nigh dippy, seemingly,
by the exiguousness of the Sabbath thrip-
pence, let fly last week in no uncertain
fashion on the wickedness of Australians
inasmuch as they uo longer crowded to wor-
ship the Gentle Nazarene “in the good old-
fashioned way”—meaning under the direc-
tion of clerics of his stamp. Willings
could not have appeared more scandalised
had he been a pro. whose turn had been
given the utter bird by a callous multitude.
Speaking of the type of citizen who reckons
that he gets no ethical uplift worth writing
home about, from his (Willings’) minis-
trations, the divine remarked :—-
We have observed him on the Sabbath Day-
arrayed in more or less picturesque undress uniform,
digging, weeding, planting or hosing his garden. We
have observed him taking relaxation from his hard
labors of the week in exciting games of tennis and
other open-air sports. We have seen him on the
Manly tram, with golf-sticks or other sporting equip-
ment, going to or returning from his open-air de-
votional exercises. We have had many a passing
glance at this “worshipper,” splashing in the surf
or playing bowls on the green. He certainly is
under the blue dome of Heaven in all these situa-
tions, but worshipping God he certainly is not.
Heaven is affronted by his brazen declaration, and
for our part we unhesitatingly denounce him for
what he is—a hypocrite, a Sabbath-breaker and a
cheat.
The enraged Willings attributed the entire
calamity to what he called “selfishness” :
This selfishness hails with joy the Sunday tram,
dictates the attitude of the tea-room proprietors,
keeps open the shops on Sunday, demands the Sun-
day paper, crowds the Sunday trams — but not to go
churchward —spreads itself on the beaches, patron-
ises the Sunday sports and concerts, and in no sepse
remembers the Sabbath day to keep it holy. It
ministers to the avarice of the few, and looks after
Number One.
There is nothing more pathetic than the
spectacle of a failure railing at an inappre-
ciative world. The poor little hedge-parson,
with his empty chapel, his seedy soup-plate
hat and his vast family—all of which have
to be maintained on a stipend of about 30s.
per week —is in the same class as the soured
old maid, the actor who has been egged out
of his job, the burst shopkeeper and the in-
solvent restaurateur. All these different types
are ready to supply every imaginable _ ex-
planation of their failure barring the right
one. namely incompetence. There are thou-
sands of distracted little clerics of the Wip-
ings stamp, all over Australia, who spend
miserable hours every week peering into the
bag or plate or hat or whatever it is, and
asking wildly why it is so barren of cash.
They never realise that they are themselves
to blame. The essence of sky-pilotage, _as
the normal person understands it, is charity.
If there was any one virtue which the
Saviour demanded of His followers more
than another it was that they should behave
with courtesy and self-restraint and regard
for other people’s feelings—in brief, as one
might say, like gentlemen. He deprecated
for the most part the creation of strife and
illwill: the use of insulting and abusive
language; and all other things tending to-
wards the stirring up of hatred and manor.
Yet alleged believers in His kindly teachings
weigh in with stuff like the following about


their business rivals, and expect to be taken
seriously as earnest gospel-mongers:
The Roman Catholic Church is an agent of evil,
subtle, crafty, scheming'. I refer to the influence,
sinister, menacing, selfish, of the Roman Catholic
Church. The devout R.C„ as we all know, if lie
groes early to Mass on Sunday, may go to the Devii
for the rest of the day, etc., etc.
The R.C. Church comports itself far more
subtly than this. Whatever it thinks about
the opposition it rarely says anything in pub-
lic. One might read through a dozen sec-
tarian papers—British, Continental or Aus-
tralian—and find not a word in disparage-
ment of Protestants. That is one of the
reasons why its educated and intelligent
members are able to regard it seriously. It
resembles a well-behaved Christian Church
more than it does a mediaeval Baslii-
Bazouk. The liome-loathing parsons will
do better business in the wav of at-
tracting congregations from the moment
they cease to cover themselves with
the mud which they sling at their trade
opponents, and get down to their legitimate
job of soul-salving. Their present tactics
are absolutely suicidal. The Willings of
the religious world do more for Sabbath
surf-bathing than all Rome’s minions. They
have but one hope of luring the thrippence
back to the plate; they must cease to bay
the moon, abandon profitless back-chat in
general, and nose as people with a genuine
belief in the Snirit of the Word. —I remain,
etc., A Humble Preacher.
Oil in Mexico.
Thus Max Adams in frenzy:—
I do hope that every greaser, mestizo, Mexican and
Indian in Mexico gets out his gun and rallies behind
the assassin lluekta against Woodrow Wilson's big
Oil Trust, until the President who “makes peace”
with a 12-inch gun finds that he has bitten off more
than he can chew, that his international cake is
dough, and that he is generally as mixed as these
metaphors. Over the murdering in Mexico there
hangs a horrible smell of Oil. Oil kept old-man Diaz
president till he was in his dotage, and then it turned
him out. Oil fooled round with revolutions till they
grew too hot for Oil to feel comfortable in their
vicinity ; and then Oil began to squeal to the navy
and army of the United States to “protect its in-
terests.”
Now President Wilson has butted into Mexico on
a pretext that is discreditably flimsy. The man
actually on top in that country of excitable half-
breeds is the amiable Huerta, who is establishing
himself according to the precedents set by Diaz in
liis early days; that is to say, he is getting rid of
troublesome people by shoving them underground.
The Oil that backed Diaz called him the strong auto-
crat necessary to keep order in a violent country.
The Oil that is worried by Huerta calls him a
usurper guilty of manslaughter. 'What Oil says goes.
The other big nations of the world, which are not
controlled by Oil, frankly admit that Huerta is top
dog in Mexico, and recognise him as the head of a
nation. But Oil doesn’t want him, and therefore the
leg of President Wilson, and the leg of the whole
United States, is pulled to make them go out and
slaughter Mexicans.
The slaughter has begun in a sufficiently bloody
fashion. On April 21 the U.S. marines landed at
Vera Cruz and killed 200 Mexicans. Four Ameri-
cans were killed; and the difference between four
and 200 shows what a cold massacre it must have
been, with the pick of a modern navy on one side
and the scrag garrison of a wayside port on the
other. President Wilson says that he is invading
not Mexico, hut Huerta only. Huerta is trying to
gather insurgents as well as Government armies
against the big bully who smells of Oil, and the
chances seem to be in favor of his success. When
that happens where will Wilson be? Either he, will
have to burn, massacre and. pillage a whole nation
— as Kitchener did to the Boers when other Eng-
lish generals proved not savage enough for the job—
or else he will have to run away from his _ present
pose, and own up that Huerta is boss in Mexico.
When Wilson was seeking the presidency, of the
United States he made some very fine speeches
against the grip of money interests in which America
is choking. “The people of the United States,” he
used to say, “do not govern themselves. They are
ruled by a few individuals.” His mission in politics,
as declared by himself, was to restore real self-
government as against domination by big financial
groups. And now Oil has proved too cute and too
powerful for him. It has pushed and twiddled and
faked him into ■ massacring Mexicans, with a bag of
200 as a first instalment.
Every nation of comparative weakness should
devoutly hope that the Mexican people will , stand
united against the big, greasy Oil-hullv who has come
into their country with a gun. Some day Australia
may quite possibly be a kind of Mexico. The Aus-
tralian republic is always a possibility of the poli-
tical future —there are quite a lot of ways in which
it may conceivably he brought into being, even
within the lifetime of David Storey —and in that day
money interests will be just as powerful and just
as cold-bloodedly selfish as they are in Mexico this
month. The lesson for Mexico to teach to Oil, and
to Beef, and to every huge financial interest is that
a whole nation is going to get up and fight against
the strong Power that comes in to pacify by mas-
sacre. The Mexican mestizo, dying 200 at a time
with his rusty gun, is fighting the battles of a
future Australia as well as his own.
So as an Australian 1 pray for a consolidation of
the rebels and the government in Mexico, till the
misguided Wilson has been taught that a nation is
not going to sit down and let itself he run by a
greasy, greedy barrel of Oil.
+
How Ulster Voted for Home Rule.
Dear Bulletin, —This is an example of
the logic of Rev. Fitchett, of “Deeds that
Won the Empire,” writing in defence of the
anti-Home Rule attitude of Edward Carson
and certain other Ulsterites -
If we were about to federate, and Western Aus-
tralia stubbornly stood out, and some lunatic pro-
posed to send a British squadron to bombard Fre-
mantle to compel Western Australia to come in by
the logic of guns, what would be said?
It is another curious development of the
Ulster superstitiou. When the Home Rule
Bill was before the House of Commons
ULSTER VOTED FOR HOME RULE.
In view of all the fuss and howl and clamor
and drink and religious protestation it seems
almost impossible, i L>t ULSTER VOTED
FOR IIOME RULE. Out of the 33 mem-
bers who represent that province there were
17 Irish Nationalist votes and 16 Unionist
votes. It might not be much of a majority,
but it was as good a majority as the
McGowen Government used to have in the
N.S.W. State Parliament, and as good a
majority as the Cook Government has now
in the House of Representatives. A recal-
citrant section of Ulster, occupied mostly
by non-Irish people—-the smaller section in
point of area, population and voting power—
is making a powerful fuss, and by sheer
clamor and effrontery it passes itself off as
being Ulster. Seeing that every daily paper
calls this impudent minority of a province
“Ulster,” it has certainly clamored with
some success. The case is just the same as
if all the States of Australia had voted for
Federation, but Geelong and the adjoining
districts had risen in revolt, and had called
themselves “Victoria,” and had declared they
would die in the last anti-Federal ditch, and
hnd called on the British ..Government, to
send a fleet and an army to prevent Federa-
tion, failing which aid Geelong and sur-
rounding districts would curse Britain with
their last breath, and haunt it with a troubled
ghost all through the Hereafter. The com-
position of the United Kingdom is somewhat
curious. Wales was conquered, but then
Wales wasn’t big enough to put up a serious
resistance, and it had never been a real
kingdom. At the best it was a collection
of miscroscopic principalities. And its tail
feathers were somewhat smoothed down by
the fact that the King’s eldest son was usu-
ally entitled “Prince of Wales.” The place
received a certain measure of polite recogni-
tion. Yet some parts of Wales are not much
more reconciled now than they were cen-
turies ago, and not very long since three
Welshmen in finding that the
writer couldn’t speak Welsh, spat bitterly
in all directions, and uttered the last pos-
sible word of Welsh reproach, which is “Sas-
senach.” The Scotch were more or less
reconciled to the union with England, be-
cause a Scotch king went to London to
rule over the hated English. They felt that
they had really annexed John Bull. Even
to this day the only claim that George V.
has to reign in London is that he is de-
scended from a Scotch king. Ireland, in the
early days, was far ahead of England, Scot-
land and Wales in art, literature and cul-
ture. It was so big that it couldn’t make, a
tame surrender without disgrace, yet it
wasn’t big enough to make a successful
resistance against the great brutal Angevin
Empire. No one soothed its vanity by
sending King Roderick O’Connor to
reign after a nominal sort of fashion
in London as did King James Stuart.
Nobody had sense enough to make the wife
of the heir-apparent Princess of Tara, or
anything of the sort. Ireland has always
been the insoluble problem and the lost dog
of the British Isles. Now an attempt is
being made to patch up the misery of cen-
turies by giving the island something ap-
proaching—only approaching—the same mea-
sure of self-government that Australia enjoys.
The necessary Bill was carried in the House
of Commons by a big majority. Wales,
where some of the people still spit with
great derision when they meet a person who
can’t; speak the old language of Gwent, gave
a 30 to one majority in favor of Irish Home
Rule. Scotland, which has got over the fever
of enthusiasm and swelled head which pos-
sessed it when a Scotch king went to reign in
London, gave a 3| to one majority. The
members representing three of the Irish pro-
vinces voted for Home Rule to a man. In
the fourth province—Ulster—the Home Rule
idea was. carried by a majority of one, the
hostile minority representing a purely foreign
element. England, with an eye to the fact
that it is the dominant and con-
quering and unpopular element of the
partnership, voted against the idea of
an Irish sub-Parliament such as every
Australian State possesses, but even Eng-
land did so only by a small margin. The sen-
timent of the British Isles as a whole, as ex-
pressed in the House of Commons, was
strongly in favor of some measure of Irish
autonomy. And all the blither that has
filled the papers for months past is the
blither of the tail-end, which is also the alien
end, of Ulstel - .. Having been defeated at the
noils even on its own stamping ground, and
defeated in the House of Commons, it can’t
take its defeat like a gentleman.—Yours, etc.,
Henry llorsecollar.
♦
The Immigrant Attitude Towards Local
Defence.
A well-meaning specimen of the genus ass
or goat, who subscribed himself “Highland
Laddie,” in a letter to the S. M. Herald
(23/4/T4), gave away the whole case for
what are called “National Regiments.” He
began by deploring the drab ingloriousness of
the uniforms supplied to the Highlanders of
the Commonwealth forces. He complained
bitterly of the dearth of “embellishments”
on the Scottish warrior’s doublet, the un-
alluring architecture of his kilt; the cheap-
ness of his spats ; and the inadequacy of his
sporran. He deduced from all these things
that the Australian Government has no real
belief in the value of the “National regi-
ment” business, and he wound up this way:
If the authorities are sincere, by all means let
them have issued uniforms identical with those worn,
say, by the Black Watch (Royal Highlanders), for
the Scottish; the 3rd Buffs, or the 7th Royal Fusil-
iers, for the English; and the green of the Royal
Irish Rifles, for our national regiments. These new
regiments will then be rushed by men of picked
physique, and they will at once become the crack
corps of the Commoniuealth.
Here we have a priceless example of the
C. E. Jacomb, or immigrant, point of view
as regards local defence. The writer
of the letter fails, in the first place,
to appreciate that the record and tra-
ditions of the Black Watch, the Buffs,
etc., afford no inspiration to Aus-
tralians. There is a limit to the importing
craze; and a point exists at which a self-
respecting white nation feels impelled to put
a period to the habit of monkey-like imita-
tiveness. It is hard to imagine a more'
hilarious piece of imbecility than the spec-
tacle of a bogus Black Watch regiment com-
posed chiefly of young men who have never
even seen Scotland, and who speak the lan-
guage of Surry Hills and the ’Loo; while
there is equal humor in the idea of a regiment
of Royal Irish Rifles, none of whose members
has lived in Ireland, or is more like an
Irishman than any other born and bred Aus-
tralian. These pathetic frauds would be the
laughing-stock not only of Australia, but of
every Britisher who had the merest glimmer
of a sense of proportion. The defence autho-
rities, by clothing the “national regiments”
in garments of so involved and nondescript
a character that they mean nothing in par-
ticular, have saved the misguided warriors
who enter them from the greater ridicule, if
they have done nothing more. If they have
also thereby prevented these regiments from
being “rushed by men of picked physique”
and turned into “the crack corps of the
Commonwealth.” then have the authorities
done the whole defence movement a good
turn. There are two sorts of crack corps in
existence in most European armies. The
cracknels of the one variety is denendent
chiefly on “swank” ; of the other on efficiency.
The 10th Hussars is a crack British corps
inasmuch as no officer can enter it who is
not rich, of distinguished birth, and person-
ally,, known (o , the King. The Marines is
not a crack corps. The very humblest and
most indigent person can be an officer of
Marihes, provided his character is good and
he has sufficient intelligence to pass the
requisite examinations. Yet the fighting
record of the Marines, as a corps, is more
brilliant than that of the 10th Hussars, and
incomparably more so than the records of
such glittering corps as the First and Second
Life Guards. If the Australian citizen army
is to be a success the very first element that
requires to be eliminated is the “swank”
element. Questions of gorgeous imported
haberdashery, and of the country of origin
of the trainees’ parents or grand-parents
should be disregarded utterly. Efficiency
should be the one and only mark of a crack
corps. Almost any ostentatious idiot can
heap sporrans and dirks and shamrocks on
himself for review purposes or street wear;
but the useful warrior is one who. regardless
of “embellishments” and the like, lays him-
self out to seriously learn his job.
Asa sample of the Law’s immemorial
asininity, consider the following narrative. A
while ago Sophie George, of Fitzroy (Vic.),
told the Law that her snouse, Henry George,
had deserted her. The Law said it would
salvage him. was unearthed ulti-
mately at Goulburn (N.S.W.), and led back
to Fitzroy, at a total cost to the State of
£S 15s. The lady, having recovered her
snouse, intimated that she didn’t want him
gaoled. All she required was his company
and part of his earnings. The Law said
that it would consider this question favor-
ably. on condition that Henry paid the
£8 15s. that his dash for freedom had cost
it. At about this stage the Law unex-
pectedly fell upon George and carted him
back to Goulburn to answer a charge of mis-
prision or barratry or something. He was
acquitted, so the Law' humped him over the
border once more, and as he. somewhat ex-
ctisably, hadn’t paid any of the original
£S 155., it hauled him before the ’itov beaks
again. He pleaded that he had been so
busy travelling at the Law’s behest that he
hadn’t had time to earn the cash —or main-
tain his wife either. He wound up a pas-
sionate exposition of his wrongs by offer-
ing the Law ss. a week, the which was
scornfully rejected. Thereupon the Law
on the bench informed the Law in the body
of the court that nobody had any power to
make an order for Costs —a singular over-
sight on the part of Costs —and that as
there was nothing to be got by gaoling the
man, it would adjourn the case some more,
in the hope that his better feelings, or his
love for his widowed mother, or something
would impel him to pay up. The Law off
the bench concealed its feelings admirably,
and courteously requested Henry Geobgk
to produce the coin—but this writer reckons
it was a fool not to have accepted the ss.
offer. So far it is £26 ss. to the bad, and
£l7 10s. of that is gone for good, also its
chances of getting the rest are not too rosy.
Still, it has had some relaxation out of
Mr. George; he and his vagaries and his
journeyings must have helped pleasurably
to pass the time.
♦
The present Vic. Ministry has at least one
distinction : it has let more urgent matters rip
Ihan any other in the history of the State.
The expensive Goulburn levies scheme was
abandoned by it; it has dropped the more
costly Maffra Beet Sugar enterprise; it de-
clines to put an end to the infamous dredg-
ing business; it has gone back on its policy
of reserving the coal measures of the State
for State development; it is carefully jetti-
soning every progressive plank in its original
programme, and even in such a comparatively
small matter as running the State timber-
seasoning yards at Newport, it can’t follow
the straight and honest track. Private
Enterprise has all along supplied these sea-
soning kilns so intermittently and inade-
quately, that they cannot be worked as a
cheap, steady job, so the departmental forest
and timber experts recommended the estab-
lishment of State mills, in order that good
cutting, even quality and a regular supply
might ensure the success of the seasoning
undertaking. Minister of Forests, J. Dry
Brown, however, has superior ideas. He
proposes to let the drying kilns go to perdi-
tion, and will have timber cut in the forests
and allowed to lie there till it is seasoned.
Brown’s patent idea is to save expense and
let Nature do the work of the kilns. Un-
fortunately, Nature also has other ideas, and
when the usual bushfire happens in the sum-
mer, and Brown’s seasoned timber-stacks
disappear in smoke, it may dawn on him
that he didn’t know quite as much as he
thought. Meanwhile he is busily denying
that he has been “approached by any secret
deputations representing private interests
and concerned at the development of the
Newport kilns.”
Bruce Smith’s interjection when Bamforo
(Q.) suggested a trial of the Elective Min-
istry system in Australian politics was a
nasty innuendo against the character of his
own side of the House. “Does the hon. mem-
ber not think that the Ministry would be
wholly chosen from the side which had the
majority?” asked the lofty representative of
Capital. Bruce Smith, seemingly, cannot
conceive it possible that a party of 38, in-
cluding Mr. Speaker, would give the other
party of 37 a chance in the allotment of even
one portfolio. As for the fact that the party
line would be obliterated in subsequent Par-
liaments, elected on the Elective Ministry
understanding, Bruce Smith is stone blind
to it. The inevitable result of a radical
change doesn’t come within the vision of a
Tory who wears an eyeglass and who has
dissociated himself from Senator Miixen in
Speaking in disparaging terms of Japan.
«. ——
Dear Bulletin, —Your remarks re the Vic-
torian decentralisation scheme and Portland
hit the nail full in the centre of the occiput.
The said scheme is an elaborate design to
decentralise nothing. The crux of the ques-
tion lies in the railways, and the direction in
which they run ; a point anyone can see by
examining the black spokes radiating from
Melbourne. Portland’s connection with the
North is being pushed on with the rapidity
of a steam roller. But the joke or tragedy
of the whole business is that the line under
construction south from Toolondo is being
laid with light rails discarded elsewhere as
unfit to carry heavy burdens. So when the
Portland-Wimmera connection is completed,
the wheat will be as far as ever from its
natural outlet until the line is relaid with
heavier metals. Decentralisation by that
time will be advertised as a failure, because
Portland will not have attracted any more
trade, than the scraps that the pro-
posed line will be capable of carry-
ing. The Maroona-Gheringhap line, just
recently opened, is laid with large metals,
and helps to relieve the congestion of goods
traffic on the main Melbourne-Adelaide line.
(Though why, by the way, the overflow
shouldn’t go from Maroona to Portland, in-
stead of to 'Melbourne, a greater distance, is
an insoluble problem.) The case of Vic-
toria’s other natural harbor, Westernport, is
still more desperate. This fine bay is booted
out of the hunt , altogether, and now that it
carries a naval station Melbourne’s chance
of receiving merchandise per its deep portals
may be closed for ever. So Victoria’s one
chance of seeing the 50,000-ton liner of to-
morrow is Portland. For the heavy expen-
diture of blasting the Heads and dredging
Port Phillip will, after all, only allow small
ocean mammoths within sight of the Yarra.
Many weird schemes are being concocted to
make Port Phillip navigable to all craft.
Among the weirdest is one to cut anew
opening at Sorrento, and block the present
heads with the material therefrom. Locks in
the new cut would raise Port Phillip waters
five or six feet. Where this depth-creating
liquid was to come from, and where the
ships inside would be when the Japs blew
up the locks, were questions left out of the
estimates. Meanwhile the cocky whose wheat
is held up. and the owners of the live stock
which perish in great agony on the over-
crowded lines, are supposed to be content
with the news that a few thousands, are
being spent in Portland, that nothing is to
be outlaid on Westernport. and that there is
a scheme for blowing millions on the impos-
sible rask of transforming Port Phillip into
a modern harbor.—Yours, etc., Leo Lear.
Concerning the Reports.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My advisers submitted to the Premiers' Confer-
ence a proposal for the establishment of a uniform
railway gauge throughout the Commonwealth, and
suggested that the question be referred to the Inter-
state Commission for examination and report.—
Governor-General's speech at opening of Federal
Parliament.
Let us have a report!
Our railway system is confusion.
The gauges are broken at every State boun-
dary.
We have considered the matter;
The Premiers’ Conference has considered it;
It is meet that the Inter-State Commission
consider it some more.
Let us have a report!
Who is he that sayeth “Yah”?
Who is he that snorteth scornfully?
Is not a report good?
Is it not comely that the thing should be
considered?
Why do the. people say “Yah!” and also
“Tush!” and “Bah!”?
Why do they grin with derision?
What aileth them that they repeat again our
words with mockery?
Yah! Get a move on. We have had plenty
of reports.
Tush! Get work. Ye know what is to be
done.
Bali! Stand not with the look of shorn
mutton, but shift the rails.
Nay, but let us consider,
Let us have a report:
Let us do all things in order;
Let us discover if the time be ripe!
Perchance the engineers may yet tell us that
there is no need to worry.
Perchance the gauges are the same if they be
closely examined.
Perchance 3ft. Gin. in the North may be
4ft. BJin. in the South.
Perchance our engines may be taught to
expand and contract with the climate.
Perchance the whole affair may be adjusted
by hypnotic influence.
Perchance Perchance
But, anyhow, let us have a report.
What report would one of independent mind
give?
What word would the faithful of heart write?
Behold, these words would the man of truth
say:
“Ye have known what is at fault these
forty years.
Ye know what is to be done, and do it not.
Your conferences are but a shuffle to avoid
working.
Your reports are but an expedient to waste
time.
There is no uniform gauge in Australia,
because ye desire none.
There is no remedy for the evil save ye be
kicked into action.
This is the true and faithful report of the
matter as it stands.”
Nay. but a report is a pleasant thing.
Someone gettetli paid for drawing it up.
It rejoiceth the people to gaze upon it.
Let us have a report.
Yea, even a little report,
That we may bring it before a conference,
Or two or three conferences.
Let us have reports on the conferences.
And thereafter a report by some engineers
on the report of the conferences,
And a report by some conferences on the
report of the engineers;
And thereafter let us wait until the time is
ripe.
Yea, let us have a report on the ripening of
the time.
What report is this?
Say ye that the foeman hath set his boots
in the North?
Blow ye the bugle!
Call the troops together that we may smite
him!
Lo, the railway is broken in pieces !
The thunders of our battle sit kicking their
heels on the loose ends!
What report is this?
It is .the explosion that burstetli a continent.
Yea, it is the blowing up of a careless nation.
For their leaders waited a report,
And a report upon a report upon a report,
Till the enemy reported at the gate,
And his report was the report of cannon.
And there was none to answer them until
the 247th conference had brought in
its recommendation on the 498th
report!
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMATWEALTH.


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
Estab 1742
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OF THE PEOPLE.
“A WHITE AUSTRALIA
and
"MACKIE’S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.
A GRAND DOUBLE.
r
g m
rOORD & SOM
toMDON. ENGLAND * \|
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
%
1 Z
DIO
Swift & Company litd.. Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
Missing: Friends.
A Federal Detective Agency.
J. CANTLON
(late Victorian Detective Police) under-
takes Commercial. Confidential. Next of Kin.
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enquiries,
Searches. Surveillance.
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
CHILD. JO SI All FREDERlCK.—lnfor-
mation sought as to whereabouts.
Father died last August. Write Harold
Smith, Gernrode. Berkhamsted, England.
Situatii
Wanted.
Young. energetic man. ami
thoroughly healthy, possessing ma-
turity certificate of a college, speaking,
besides German, English and French pern
feetly. also a little Dutch, and having good
trade knowledge, desires situation as
manager, inspector, or a similar posi-
tion on a plantation. South Sea Islands pre-
ferred (contract 10-15 years). Please
address offers to J.O. 14830. c/o liudolt
Mosse, Berlin S.W. ( Germany) ■_
WELL BORER open foe engagement,
in W.A., Queensland, N.S.W. Good retrr-
c , ra . Al ,iuy to “Driller,” c/o Mrs. Doyle, Moore-
court Avenue, Springwood, N.SAV.
A ETESIAN
S'- experience
If Sydney Morning Herald (27/4/T4) is
right, Guillaux, the French aviator who is
floating round, has strong claims for official
interference. On Saturday he flew at New-
castle, and amongst those who were on the
take-off ground were 200 military cadets.
Describing the flight, S.M.H.’s local corres-
pondent, under the heading “Testing the
Cadets,” lias this remarkable piece of folly
to relate: —
Mr. Guillaux soared to a great height, and, evi-
dently with the idea of testing the stability of the
cadets in a crisis, the Frenchman directed his machine
towards them. He tilted the monoplane, and took
a straight dive directly for the small company of
cadets. Down the maehire. came like an arrow.
People held their breath for a moment, and gave
vent to a scream as they realised that the airman
would be dashed to pieces and the ground strewn
with dead cadets, .lust when the audience expected
to hear the awful crash as the machine struck the
cadets, the aviator pulled a lever and gracefully
skimmed over the heads of the cadets. Death and
the cadets were separated only by about four feet,
but they stood their ground.
For sheer asininity that would be hard to
match. If professional airmen, most of
whose stock in trade is risk, are to be
allowed to put thrills into their shows at
the chance of murdering a company of
cadets, the small unpopularity against com-
pulsory training will be given an unholy
boost. Will this bounding Gaul please
understand that the testing of cadets is no
i art of his job !
—i —♦
, , Tuesday was the cablegramimer’s busy day.
'I he items included a temporary upheaval
in the eastern corner of Ulster, with the
Orange rebels in possession of roads and
railway stations and landing guns openly;
a battle on the Greek border; news that the
miners' strike in Colorado (U.S.) had prac-
tically developed into a civil war. and that
the staggered President had so much Mexi-
can fuss on his hands that he had no soldiers
to spare; report that 800.000 more miners
proposed to strike and paralyse the IJ.S.
Government.: alleged great exaltation of the
tail of President Huerta and projects for a
Mexican invasion of the States; rumors of
possible, interference by Brazil, Argentina
and Chile; illness of the Emperor of Aus-
tria. with the usual rumors of complica-
tions ; also sundries.
The very sloppiest, most inartistic and
casual female liar on record transpired at
Goulburn (N.S.W.) last week. She burst
into the Ivenmore Lunatic Asylum, where
she is employed, with a fevered yarn of
robbery and rapine. She told the scandal-
ised Asylum authorities that shortly after
leaving Goulburn she had been leapt upon
by strange men who, despite her furious
struggles, prayers, protests and howls, out-
raged her and robbed her of her new hat.
The police failed to find the malefactors.
A doctor who examined their alleged victim
found her to be virgo Intacta. Also there
was not a solitary bruise on her of the sort
that a violent struggle would occasion. And,
finally, the hat of which she claimed to have
been bereft • turned out to be still at its
hat-shop of origin. What niche in life is
there for a wild, careless fabricator like that?
As editor-in-chief of one of those organs
which specialise in hectic tales about
the murderous ways of Romish minions
in Australia, she might do a bit of good
for herself. Sydney Watchman told
some years ago of the midnight assassina-
tion and burial in St. Mary’s Cathedral of
“a white-robed girl”—which happening was
witnessed from behind a pillar by two
Orangemen named respectively “Y” and
“X.” The Goulburn maiden should be able,
with encouragement, to evolve quite a lot
of romance on the above lines. But the
odds are she would put the acid of
disbelief on any given narrative by being
too explicit. The prevaricator who supplies
details is a danger to herself, to the news-
paper which publishes her fabrications, to
the gossips who retail them to the world —
to everyone, in brief, except the people they
are designed to injure.
Another Tale of Mean Streets. The
Broken Hill attempted murder and suicide
of last week happened in Slag-street. Can
anything good come out of Slag-street?
The councillors of Northcote (Vic.) de-
cided recently to “celebrate” the proclama-
tion of the dusty place as a “city” by
inviting the State Excellency and them-
selves to a banquet—-otherwise a free feed—-
which costly function they intend shall be
paid for by the ratepayers. If Northcote
were in a financial position to carry on in
this exuberant fashion it would be all right.
But it isn’t. The suburb’s 20,000 inhabi-
tants boast, in addition to many miles of
unmade streets, a debt of £BO,OOO and an
overdraft of £BOOO. A municipal debt of
£BB,OOO, among about 5000 adult males, is
the sort of liability that ought to cut
revelry off at the meter, so to speak, till
such time as the wolf of possible insolvency
is banished from the premises.
There is money in the tango. A song-
dance-and-drama school told a London REfebee in-
terviewer last month that it had in the nast nine
weeks earned £ 1 000 for teaching the foolishness, and
had any number of aonlications from hotels, etc.
for tango couples at £20 a week.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
I! i k Majesty's ; “The Forty Thieves.”
Palace “The Colleen Bawn.”
A Delphi “The Mayor of Tokio.”
Little Theatre “The Gay Lord Quex.”
Tivoli.... Mclntoshs Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Vaudeville.
r ycfitm . . . Spencer’? Pictures.
GlaciariuM & Olympia. West’s Pictures.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures.
Prince Alfred Park... Wirths’ Circus.
Imperial Salon De Luxe Dancing.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
11 er Majesty’s ...“Come Over Here.”
King’s “What Happened to Mary.”
R0ya1..... “Madame X.”
Princess’s Harry Lauder.
Tivoli .Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace... West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer's Pictures.
Athenveum Hall Alexander Watson Recitals.
While the Adelphi (the Sydney home of
bellowdrama) is experimenting with musical
comedy, the Royal, which has housed a long
string of m.c.’s, is now offering its customers
‘‘Sealed Orders,” a Raleigh and Hamilton
Drury Lane bellow of the largest size. It
remains to be seen whether the steady corned
beef patrons really want chicken, and the
chicken patrons red corned beef —not a little
corned beef, but heaps of corned beef —
corned beef piled in a smoking pyramid that
stretches from 7.45 to somewhere near 11,
and is moistened with the soup-water known
as “hurry music.” The whole of the first
act, consisting of a drop and a good “set,”
is devoted to telling how the diamond mer-
chant’s clerk, a widower with a girl-child
and the dreariest sister that ever moaned
at mortal man, frequents racecourses, is dis-
missed for that same on a Saturday after-
noon, and is about to poison himself with a
very special brand of traceless poison, in
his employer’s deserted office, when some
fragments of plaster fall from the ceiling.
As he watches, a hole appears therein and
a capsized umbrella is shoved through and
opened to catch the plaster the burglars
above are removing. The clerk puts his
poisoned wine aside, slips behind the window
curtain, and stays there, while the leading
burglar comes down a knotted rope and
swiftly opens the old safe in modern fashion
with an oxo-hydrogen jet or something of the
kind. Accidentally knocking some old papers
over and getting his nose and throat full of
dust, he seizes and drinks the poisoned wine
abandoned by the clerk. Result —one dead
burglar iu front of an open safe. The clerk
sneaks out fro,m his hiding-place, steals the
diamonds for himself and hurries out for the
police. The burglar on the next floor, be-
coming anxious, calls to his dead mate, and,
getting no answer, climbs down to investi-
gate. Just when he has realised that mate
Bill is dead a torrent of police
rushes in, headed by the thievish clerk, and
the live burglar is wrongfully dragged off to
do 20 years hard for stealing the diamonds
and slaying his pal. That is a good scene—
highly dramatic, original and well played.
HANS RENHAUSER CONDUCTING AT
SYDNEY ADELPHI.
But when the action begins again after 20
years, the bellow-in-chief starts in earnest,
and the playhaunter realises that what he
has just seen was merely a good prologue,
and that the central figure thereof is merely
a secondary character in the main shriek.
He lias degenerated into a sort of; agent for
the usual oily foreign ambassador wijh per-
fect manners and the worst intentions to-
wards dear old England. The usual grand
old Admiral’s beautiful young wife (on the
stage the exalted person always has a beau-
tiful young wife, who feels lonely while he
is unavoidably absent saving the Empire
with one hand) has bought too many ex-
pensive hats, and, after the oily baron has
oiled her into a stylish gambling hell and
got her a few thousands further into debt,
in the hope of getting out, it is comparatively
easy to get her to steal the dear old Sealed
Orders from her husband’s safe on the flag-
ship. (Note that this—the pivot of the play
—is reached about 9 o’clock, which is pretty
slow going.) The “Orders” (in most other
bellows they are “the papers”) are recovered
through the exertions of a Boy Scout, some
screaming naval officers, a man fortune-
teller, and a beauty specialist (Beatrice
Day). The last-named clever actress is
afflicted with a bustling part, which is as
nearly as possible the Female Comic Sailor.
This is calculated to sadden anyone who re-
members her in such comedies as “Dr.
Wake’s Patient.” By dint of having a cast
of 40 or so, and some 16 scenes to hurry
them about in, the wretched Orders still
honorably Sealed, are recovered from the air-
ship wreck about 11 p.m., and handed with
a salute to the grand old Admiral, whose
young wife apnears to be quite cheertui about
it. Presumably she is still on the verge of
bankruptcy and social ruin.
Ethel Warwick, as the indiscreet wife of
the Admiral, is e’esrant and coldly uncon-
vincing. .Lincoln Plainer bustles fairly well
as Hannibal Calhoun, the Yankee fortune-
teller. Edward O’Neill ranges from medium
to very good as Le Page, the thieving clerk.
And H. W. Varna earns thanks for an even
study of a Jewish gent. Frank Harvey is
sadly realistic as .Toe Allan, the gaol-crushed
burglar who comes out after 20 years, only
to be suspected and threatened by the son of
his dead mate. George Bryant was a suit-
ably heavy Admiral on the first night; at
the time of writing Reynolds Denniston has
an artistic grip on the cart. Fred Cam-
bourne is delightful as Old Alf. the kindly,
watchful, white-whiskered criminal who be-
friends Joe. The show is well mounted, but
the soup music should be poured down the
sink.
“ SEALED
ORDERS," AT
SYDNEY
ROYAL
Actors falling
from the
airship to
the sea.
Sydney Society is gladdening the heart
of the management of the Imperial Salon
de Luxe (which is the Imperial dancing
saloon) by rolling up in large parties to
hop, hug and tango. On Friday night there
is to be a “grand Thespian supper,” but who
the grand Thespian is doesn’t transpire on
the advertisement. Michael Joseph was in-
terrogated on the subject, but he merely re-
marked that he thought it was going to
rain.
Hilary Long, the up-side-down man, has
had his star place on the National Amphi-
theatre (Sydney) programme annexed by
the Banzai troupe of Japanese athletes. Not
that brother Long has departed. He still
bumps down the gangway on his head. The
Japs give the programme a lift, and when
the tiresome tango pair depart all should
be well.
* * * *
Another of Allen Doone’s chicken plays,
“Mollie Bawn.” was revived at the Palace
(Sydney) on Saturday night. The Bulle-
tin has. spoken of the piece more than once,
and always with a spirit of tolerance. The
Infuriated Editor being on holiday at pre-
sent, no alteration will be made in that
policy. Anyhow, Mollie is to be fired on
Friday night, and “The Colleen Bawn” given
another trial. How many “Bawn” plays
are there, by the way?
Carnivals are all the go at the White
City (Sydney) these days, and another is
to rage on Saturday, when, according to
more or less reliable information, an ox will
be roasted whole, and other old English fri-
volities practised. The last occasion in
Sydney that an ox was roasted in its en-
tirety was, as far as this paper knows,. on
the occasion of the departure of Governor
Darling. To show his appreciation of the
event W. C. Wentworth cooked the complete
animal at his Vaucluse residence, and the
guests returning home hurled the shin bones
at Darling’s ship. It was a great day.
The demise of Fred Niblo has been asain
postponed. “Never Say Die,” at Sydney
Criterion, will expire on Friday, but on
Saturday the immortal comedian will ap-
pear for a farewell five nights as “The For-
tune Hunter.”
Tlvse who have not seen Hugh Buckler
a« “Ti'e Gav Lord Quex,” at the Little
Theatre, Sydney, had better hasten, sinc-p
on Friday afternoon he is advertised to enter
the lions’ den at Wirths* Circus. But six
untamed lions, after all, are less dangerous
to a man in his position than a hungry
countess who asks him to her den at mid-
night.
* * * *
The Sydney Tivoli, having a few bob to
spare, has decided to inflict a tango competi-
tion (amateurs only) on the undeserving
public. The competitions are to take place
at the tango teas and ou Friday nights,
when they will cause a minimum of incon-
venience to regular Tiv.-goers.
"SEALED ORDERS ,”
AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Lincoln Runner
comes out from
hiding behind
ins beard.
A “grand change or programme” is an-
nounced by Wirt us’ Circus (nance aiiiu:
Park, Sydney), and tlie snow will .now in-
clude the performing bears, which haven't
appeared hitherto. To-morrow, Friday, a
Hospital Benefit MatimSe will be given—th ■
programme to contain the pick of the bunch
from Wirths’, scraps irorn various Sydney
Theaties, Fred Niblo, Barry Lupino and
Hugh Buckler.
To-morrow night “The Tenderfoot” (at
Sydney Adel phi) will be amputated to make
way for “The Mayor of Tokio,” who will
he in charge of the same musical-comedy co.
The MacMahon Brothers’ comprehensive
film of “London By Day and Night” will,
by arrangement with the Picture “Combine,”
be unreeled at Spencer’s Sydney house on
Saturday night. Brother Charles “took”
the pictures himself on his recent trip to the
Big Smoke, and brother Charles is accredited
with knowing exactly, or thereabouts, the
taste of Australians in these matters.
The Bulletin is still keeping an alert
optic on the .T. C. Williamson panto, at Her
Majesty’s. .Sydney, and the moment there is
any indication of a slackening pulse, specks
before the eyes, fever, beri-beri, dread of
something awful about to happen, or other
symptoms of decay, the public shall be noti-
fied. At present the writer has no hesita-
tion in stating that the show is as healthy
as it ever was in its life.
From an Adelaide critic:—
Mrs. Mumme, better known as Miss Florence
Britten, is e;ivinar a single-handed picture-show that
is a refreshing change from the usual. She has some
good, original work, mostly landscape,, architecture,
or decorative heads; and in black-and-white, for
fashion-plate or similar purposes, she is supreme.
But the novelty comes in with really good copies of
famous works that Australia knows only by repute:
These have been made at London National Gallery,
or wherever the paintings may now be kept, and have
been approved by the various keepers as worthy.
Miss Britten has caught the widely-differing tricks
with astonishing cleverness: Reynolds’s children,
Murillo’s Drinking Dov (the glass finelv handled!.
Romney’s Lady Hamilton, a knight b.v Velasquez, and
so on. Among the more moderns are Turner’s
unlikely Brook. Hacker’s delicate Annunciation,
Mason’s breezv Wind on-the-Wold, and a lifelike Alma
Tadema. The little exhibition is a success, both
popular and artistic.
* $ *
Adelaide Royal, open once more and
hardly recognising itself in its changed and
beautified appearance, is giving the German
musical farce. “Autumn Manoeuvres,” most
skilfully Anglicised, and with dialogue of
unusual brilliance for this class of work.
The idea, openly pursuing girl and boast-
fully elusive man, is “Merry Widow” over
again, but the setting is novel. Florence
Young, brilliant as ever, does the girl full
justice in everything but appearance.
Dorothy Brunton comes to the front rank
with a bound, and Connie Milne makes a
small part stand out by polished acting.
Fr.ank Greene can both act and sing, and
Phil Smith is a worthy successor to the
long line of hard-working comedians in
comic opera. Quick changes are to mark
the rest of the season. At the Tivoli are
some restless, delightful leopards, with a
Vallecita ladv nutting them through their
tricks. Ed Ford, who claims to be “the
original Australian sundowner,” is back
from foreign parts; and the tango teas
continue popular as before. The King’s is
strong musically, to the Lassies now being
added Eagle Horse, a tamed Sioux. Fanny
Rice, the musical Dupres, and Hyman and
M ton’s acrobatics Imlp in a good bill.
Brnnscombe’s Dandips have packed up. and
w ade a swallow flight—Poland Henrv. Pace.
Naomi McQuoin and the rest —much re-


THe World’s Best.
* v 1
Motor Lorry.
Silent Knight Engine
<SHaft Drive No Chains.
1
r
SUNSHINE 4
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney & Adelaide,J
Motor Cars P’t’y
Melbourne.
Sole
Agents.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Pitt & King Streets, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch : 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. s . J. fowler, Manager.
Queensland Branch : 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane, j. A . watson, Manager.
FIRE, ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
’Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
gretted, the weather being now too cold for
open-air shows; but Waller’s Butterflies, g.
rather more elaborate show on similar lines,
seems firmly rooted in the Town Hall.
Among the pictures the best thing in sight
for the moment is at West’s, “The Day of
Days,” being a “Kismet” idea expressed in
terms of modern New York.
HANDSOME
HORACE, the
Musical Con-
ductor of the
Lauder show.
The latest outbreak of Repertory play in
Melbourne confirms one's suspicion that the
ideal feminine of our early Australian
dramatists is not an advanced woman.
She's the girl we’ve left behind us. She is
a dream of the golden age, when Love was
the only law, and proud man had the mak-
ing of it. This is the lesson of a double
bill produced at St. Peter’s Hall last Satur-
day, before a crowded audience of intellectual
nuts and nutesses, the latter of whom mostly
went home scoffing. First came “Adrift, - ’
a dualogue by Kathleen Watson Deardon, in
place of a previously-rehearsed curtain-raiser.
“Adrift” presents a gentle divorcee, living
a lonely life, whilst awaiting a visit from her
co-respondent. The decree nisi has not: yet-
been made absolute, and she is stitching a
frock for the babe that will be born later
on. When the co-re. arrives he is palpably
bored. He talks of marriage in a dejected
manner, giving the lady to understand it is
one thing for a man to love another man’s
wife, and quite another thing for him to
preserve the infatuation through a life-long
period of his own lawful matrimony with
her. Incidentally the co-re. is shown to be
ignorant of the baby on the ofiing, and when
be chances to discover the tell-tale frocklet,
during the lady’s absence from the room, he
is further convinced that marriage would
be a failure. So without mentioning his
sudden enlightenment he gets back to bache-
lor life, with the respondent’s warm kisses
on his lips. She is left to find happiness
in her unselfish solicitude for his future,
vvhich is just how the average co-re. would
like to leave the fair divorcee- —if he could.
Kathleen Watson’s dualogue deserved more
I'inotional treatment that it got from Miss
Isabel Handley and Gerald Carr.
Alfred Buchanan’s “The Image Breaker”
was a three-act dream of fond women. The
images were understood to be all the social
and political gods of such as read the Argus,
and Harry Manders was the self-satisfied
“Socialist” who broke ’em. He started
promisingly by cursing a coal-mine proprie-
tor for his indifference to the safety of his
employees. The second act dealt with
Manders as a firebrand and a Lothario.
Hetty, the daughter of another Socialist (his
whiskers proclaimed his ignobility of charac-
ter), had formerly given her affections 1.0
Manders, it seemed with the consent of her
hairy parent, and was now an anxious
mother. Her unlawful lord had cooled off
considerably since she became a mother, but
they were mutually interested in a
Housing Reform Association founded by
Madeline, the philanthropic daughter of
an angry coal owner, whose partner
wanted to marry her. Madeleine would
have preferred to marry Harry Man-
ders, _ but he shocked her at this time
by sticking to his free-love principles. Also
when Hetty mildly besought him to make
her Mrs. M., for their eheild’s sake, he told
her that his heart had turned towards the
other girl, whereat she signed heavily, but
was not at all jealous. In fact, when
Madeleine revenged herself on the intractable
Manders by turning frivolous and marrying
the bloated capitalist, gentle Hetty went to
live with her.
Three years later Madeleine felt so sick
of Sassiety that she sent for Harry and told
him to take her away on his own terms.
Unfortunately her husband dropped in at
this critical moment, and an animated con-
versation, in which Hetty joined, ended in the
Image Breaker retiring girlless from the
scene. Hetty had promised to go on loving
him hopelessly as before, whereas Madeleine
had fallen on her husband’s chest and grown
conventional again. Some neatly-sketched
minor characters, together with the melo-
dramatic situations, bits of bright dialogue
and surprising developments of the dislo-
cated plot kept the audience more interested
than edified. The author had not written
any “business” into his play, but he had at
least put some good theatrical effects into
it. Of the principal members of the co.
Miss Robson was merely a graceful and
pleasing heroine, whilst Cunninghame. as the
hero, was ungraceful and repellent. The
performance of the others, with the excep-
tion of the husband and the chief Sassiety
lady (Miss Leon), sank considerably below
tbe Repertory’s ordinary level. On a deeper
stage, with a professional co., the play would
make a favorable impression on the men.
❖ ❖ $
At three of the Melbourne theatres the
shadow of impending dissolution has fallen
on the bill. “Madame X” will drag her
weary, disreputable feet from the Royal
stage on Thursday of next week, and “What
Happened to Mary” will happen no more
at the King’s after Friday (May 8). The
Bert Bailey Co. is due in Queensland shortly,
therefore the nights of Mary are numbered,
and when that refreshingly artless damsel
goes away the present season ends.
Also next week, is the last of. Lauder at
the Princess’s, for he will put in appear-
ances at Ballarat and elsewhere before pro-
ceeding to Adelaide. Harry Lauder is
changing ins songs somewhat these times,
but “The Saftest o’ the Family” remains his
centrepiece, and the chorus of the congrega-
tion is still earnestly requested for “A Wee
Deoeh and Doris.” No vaudeville artist has
rivalled the ingratiating, kilted songster as
an advocate of the wee drappie that makes
you happie.
* * * *
Alexander Watson will monologue for
three or four more nights at Melbourne
Athenaeum Hall, ere starting his long tour.
On his first reappearance in Melbourne last
week his recitation of Masefield’s “The Ever-
lasting Mercy” proved to be a wonderful
feat of memory and magnetism. For about
Xi hours without a break he held the audi-
ence with a story in verse, of the awful bad
bloke who found grace in a pub, and went on
the land to work out his salvation. Perhaps
the Athenaeum Hall was hardly the right,
place for his fine word-picture of the Fight.
It should have been given in the Stadium,
with a Salv’army captain to introduce the
orator, and Boko Bludger, champion of the
middle-weights, to wait upon him with a
water-bottle and tumbler. To-night (Thurs-
day) the Watson bill is “Paolo and Fran-
cesea.” To-morrow it will be “King Rich-
ard II.” by a famous old dramatist of the
Elizabethan age.
HARRY LAUDER SEASON.
Jack Ark , the
diaholo expert.
At Her Majesty’s, Melbourne, there is
no mention thusfar of the last nights of
“Come Over Here.” The debatable revue
happens as before,' and the flaming hair,
earnest gaze and conversational ditties of
Daisy Jerome are still the most boosted
features of the betangoed entertainment.
* * *
New songs by Ada Reeve are the only
noticeable difference in the Melbourne Tivoli
bill. The outside of the house is outlined
with colored lights, and the name of the star
lady is set forth in large, glaring capitals
to prevent any public misunderstanding as to
Ada being the highest-salaried lady per-
former in the universe. The appearance of
the building at night convinces every ob-
server that something terribly expensive
must be happening inside.
Down at St. Kilda Esplanade the Dandies
will go on appearing in their canvas-girt
theatre until May 11. This week they com-
mence a “topsy-turvy” season, during which
the girls will wear the garments and repro-
duce the character sketches of their male
brethren, and their male brethren will re-
taliate in short skirts and winning smiles.
The last Friday of the season will be a
“request” night, and a revue of all the sea-
son’s goods on the Saturday and Monday
will close the Branscombean show for the
present.
Ellen Terry comes to hand at Port Mel-
bourne on Monday next, when a deputation
from all the local societies that spell cul-
chaw with a capital C will greet the dis-
tinguished personage. Next afternoon the
Gaud Mayoress gives a reception in her
honor, and the Shakspeare Soc. will drag
her to the Austral Salon in the evening.
On May 7 and two nights thereafter Ellen
Terry discourses on the Bard’s heroines, with
illustrative acting, at the Town Hall. Jos.
Blascheck and two or three other artists are
to supply the balance of the entertainment.
JJJ 5jS v »}»
The Bulletin’s music-hall expert con-
siders the Tasmanian problem :
The incursion of that eminent legal and consti-
tutional authority, Sir Frederick Pollock, into the
Tasmanian Parliamentary row was all that was
needed to complete a splendidly-farcical situation.
It was like an archbishop dashing his mitre to the
earth, and wading into a street row between a
couple of small boys. Tasmania is no place for seri-
ous thinkers. It is more a sort of island vaude-
ville entertainment. Consider some of its leading
low-comedy turns. When Ellison Macartney, the
most satisfactory Governor the eccentric place has
ever had (inasmuch as he runs truest to type) imposed
on Labor-leader Earle a number of preposterous con-
ditions as the price of office, he (Macartney) thought
he had scored. He knew that without his assent
Earle could not be Premier. And he also knew
that Earle badly wanted the job. Earle promised
all Macartney wanted, grabbed office, and immedi-
ately, to all intents and purposes, told Macartney
to go and boil himself, and refused to carry out
any of the latter’s behests. Macartney can’t take
the Premiership away from Earle. He can, of
course, dissolve Parliament, and, provided Earle is
returned with the same following as before, get
back to the original position. Hut in view of the
infernal uproar that his efforts have already caused,
he doesn’t dare to take so drastic a step as that.
This turn is called Pride before a Fall, or The Hood-
winked Governor.
And then there are the Comedy Judges—perfect
screams, every one of them. The plot of their act
is as follows: —Earle’s predecessor intended to ap-
point Elliot Lewis to the Chief Justiceship, in
succession to Dodds. Hut Dodds heartily dislikes
Lewis. Earle has no time for Lewis, and Dodds
knows it. So Dodds refused to resign, though he
is long past the age at which deeds of that sort are
usually done. With much tenacity the good old
man clung to his job, till the Earle Administration
transpired. Now he may be expected to resign at
at any moment. And whoever else is appointed in
his place it won’t be Lewis. (Quick Curtain, amid
shrieks of merriment.)
Whitsjtt, the legislator who had the row with
his original leader over the diseased potato issue, is
Earle’s majority. He is a host in himself, one
who may be relied on to keep any House at
which he shows in a roar so long as he is in evi-
dence. Cameron, the Tas. Federal majority of one,
in days gone by, is just such another as Whitsitt.
■Joe Cook has several times referred to him as “the
limit”; and John Forrest said of him, on
a memorable occasion: “The fellow has such
a fund of subtle humor that he makes me
larf lit to bust.” Cameron has a brother, also
a Liberal and an Independent to the backbone, whose
methods, while broader than those of his illustrious
relative, are no less artistic. This Cameron has not
yet essayed the wider fields, but as a State fun-maker
he has earned his niche beyond all possibility of
cavil, challenge, protest, egg or other missile. Need
I mention, in conclusion. King O’Malley, the Island’s
Lion Comique: the greatest Burnt Cork performer of
them all; the rival, as regards hairiness of the whisk-
ered woman of Barnum’s classic show; more ludi-
crous as regards his general appearance than many
a clown drawmg twice his salary ; a tireless coiner
of convulsing gags; a humorist who has but to open
his mouth to evoke howls of applause or derision or
something? There are others, of course, but I have
said enough I think to indicate that in the matter of
Parliamentary vaudeville Tasmania, for all its paltry
size, can put forward what is, in every sense of the
phrase, A Strong Team.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Carlyle, Jun.”: “Sealed Orders,” the big naval
bellowdrama now running at Sydney. Theatre Royal,
can do with a lot of reform on the sartorial side.
To call a super Lord Algernon de Ivnut, or what not,
and at the same time clothe him like a dustman, is
to cast a mantle of disillusion and ridicule
over the entire show. The frocks of the
walking ladies aren’t so bad, but the gar-
ments of the male mummers (barring, of
course, the principals) are horrible. An approxi-
mate expenditure of £lOO would procure for the
Society butterflies in the Flower Show scene a
collection of reasonably modern top-hats; trousers
and morning coats which fitted in parts, at least,
if not all over; and fairly credible, or believable,
or at least plausible hoots: If the hats were ironed,
the boots polished, and the Clothes carefully brushed
before each performance it would be all to the good
as regards verisimilitude. The dress-suits of the
reckless young Corinthianst*or Mohawks in the gam-
ing scene supply an element of hilarity where nothing
of the sort is required. The London young man
of fashion, who punts in thousands, may be weak,
dissolute, immoral, foolish and irreligious, but in
the matter of wearing ready-made white ties,
trousers that fail to reach the tops of his shoes, and
And Yoska , her
assistant.
HARRY LAUDER
SEA ROY (MEL-
BOURNE
PRINCESS'S.)
Irene Bercseny,
the Hungarian gypsy
cymbalist.
dress-coats that look as though they had been hewn
out with axes or a circular saw—in such matters as
these, 1 repeat, he is guiltless. Not so the de-
pressed and dusty-looking J. C. Williamson Co. noble-
men. It might be mentioned incidentally, that
about half these proud lads are in urgent need of a
haircut. One rarely sees a wall or pyramid or
entanglement of hair shooting clitf-like from the brow
of a member of White’s, or the Bachelors’. Also the
elderly sportsman who wears a black tie witn his
tail-coat, while gambling, should be asked to desist.
Only waiters affect this style. Talking of waiters
the trousers of the ship’s domestic in the scene in
the Admiral’s cabin are a joke; and talking of ships,
the infant middies who appear in the ball scene
are screams. They are too juvenile, by the look ot
them, to enter Osborne, much less serve aboard a
Dreadnought.
“Moana”: Maud Allan danced for the first time
in the Southern Hemisphere at Dunedin (M.L.) on
April 11. 1 saw her do it. No dead wowsers were
picked up after the show, though there were several
bitterly disappointed members of the cult to be dis-
cerned. Maud, who must be 45 if she’s a day, lias
one of those forms that make clothing a superfluity.
She shows her appreciation of the gifts of Providence
by leaving off as much as the Law allows. Never-
theless the result is unsensational. Maud, unlike
Gen&e —a mere toe-dancer —dances with her soul (vide
the advts.). However, the management omitted to ex-
hibit the soul, and so the audience wasn’t sure that
it got it’s money’s worth on this point. “Dancing"’
is not the correct term to apply to these exhibitions
of what the soul is alleged to think and feel when
it is forced to listen to certain pieces of music. “Pos-
turing” would be nearer the mark, Barefooted, on a
heavy, green carpet and dressed in a smile and a frag-
ment of soft-goods, Maud endeavors to present, against
appropriate backgrounds of scenery and with suitable
lighting, animated pictures interpreting the moods
inspired by various pieces of well-known classical
music, such as Mendelssohn’s “Spring Song” ; Schu-
berth “Moment Musical” ; and Grieg’s “Peer Gynt.”
These gentle caperings, consisting of the imaginary
plucking of flowers and the artistically restrained
pursuit of alleged butterflies, are all very classic,
delicate and artistic in a dim, subdued sort of fashion,
and would make anyone with a Walter Pater-Oscar
Wilde kind of soul go mad with languid joy; but
they are not exactly the type of thing that causes a
mere bloke like Bill to arise wildly in the fourth
row of the gods and let loose a frantic “Angcore!”
It is really all too chaste and beautiful for anything.
The notorious and allegedly naughty “Salome Dance”
isn’t in the present repertoire. Maud explains to
anxious pressmen who inquire after that famous sen-
sation maker that it requires special effects and a
full orchestra, while on the present tour the delicate
prancer has to rely for her music on Leo, Jan and
Mischel Oherniavsky.
Harry Lauder got a free and unpremeditated advt.
from the recent appearence of one Charles Coope, at
the South Melbourne bobby-court. Coope had come
to town from Kooweerup (Vic.) with five other spud-
diggers “to see Harry Lauder,” he pleaded. After the
show they went around sampling drinks to the tune
of a “Wee deoch and doris,” testing how far they
could go before they got stuck at the articulation of
“It’s a braw, bricht moonlicht nicht.” Their tongues
held out till the police stopped the concert, and ran
Coope into the lockup. He was fined £i, with a
seven-days’ alternative. The case was reported, where-
upon Lauder, who has not earned a reputation for
throwing away his bawbees, ’paid the spud-digger’s
penalty, gave him another ticket for the shew, and
made him otherwise happy.
The essential foolishness of the “revue” class of
performance is an unimportant objection to it from
the managerial point of view, but the bitter cry of
the galleryite who sits in ignorance of the enter-
tainment he has been paid to look upon is ,quite
another matter. Somebody voiced the recent griev-
ance in a letter to Melb. Age, and the wonder was
that the same protest hadn’t been lodged earlier.
“Performers who are stationed among the audience
to join in the ‘business’ of those upon the stage,
and performers who leave the stage to perambulate
in the front portion of the auditorium, disappear
from the view of practically every person seated in
the gallery. The natural consequence is that people
in the front seats stand up, with the result that
those behind them can neither see nor hear any-
thing of the performance, owing to the rustling of
the rising galleryites and the angry calls to ‘Sit
dow'n in front!’ of those whose view of the stage
is wholly obscured. I visited Her Majesty’s Theatre
last night to see ‘Come Over Here,’ and obtained a
2s. seat in the gallery five rows from the front. I
estimate that I saw and heard less than one-half of
the show, for the principal performers were doing
a sort of Tango Tea dress parade down the centre of
the stalls half the time.” As much might be said
by the people who pay more than 2s. for seats at
the back of the family circle. Also the d.c. people
miss some of the cheap altercation and expensive
costume parading which is arranged for the enter-
tainment of the front stalls. In short, the “speci-
ally attractive” features of a Tango Tea or revue
performance are missed by a large ’number of people
who have paid to see the whole of it. The manage-
ment may plead that the non-seers don’t miss much,
but the same excuse would applv to the outside
public that pays nothing for not being present. All
things considered, it is safe to say that shows which
have a rectangular plank in their platform, and
require bogus members of the audience to help them
along, are not likely to become acclimatised here-
abouts. Thev will pass away and be remembered
onlv as nightmares.
The portrait of Ladv Macbeth which Ellen Terry
(at managerial suggestion) brought with her to Aus-
tralia is Sargent’s original sketch in black and
white of the work he had in view. Subsequentlv
he changed his idea and painted the picture which
an ardent Terrvite bought for presentation to the
Tate Gallerv, in London. Ellen Terry’s art trea-
sures include a valuable lot of pictures, it goes
without saving. The finest of them is G. F. Watts’s
portrait of her, painted when she was a young girl,
and he the staid man who meant to marry her. Long
years after she had ceased to be Mrs. Watts the
old man gave her that love-inspired work of art.
She has willed it to the British public, and pre-
sumably it will be hung in the National Gallery when
she goes where Watts has gone.
“Screen”: At the recent general meeting of the
Amalgamated Pictures Co., in Melbourne, the process
of fusion with other concerns was explained. In
January, 1912, the first negotiations were started. It
must be mentioned that the Amalgamated Pictures
Co. is not the name of that fusion, but of one of the
concerns which entered into it. The first combine
was of West’s, Spencer’s and the Amalgamated, under
the title of General Film Co. The Williams Com-
pany, named the Union Theatres, then joined the
General Film. The Williams Company was to re-
ceive 321 per cent, of takings. The others divided
the rest, 67-J per cent. The Amalgamated Pictures
Co. is the smallest in the concern, getting 15 per
cent. Yet it is a large business, owning the Mel-
bourne Majestic Theatre and St. Kilda Theatre, and
sharing in subsidiary companies. Its whole dividend,
in the past two years, has only been 5 per cent.
“Norbell”: Rockhampton (Queensland) possesses a
dramatic show which has been running successfully for
upwards of six months. It is owned, run, financed,
managed and sub-edited by a syndicate of three local
publicans. Two changes of bill are presented every
week, which is pretty strenuous going, and keeps the
actors and actorines, to say nothing of the prompter,
moderately busy. Also, the management perspires
blood at the job o f finding a new, fresh-off-the-ice-
bellowdrama every three nights. A recent attraction
at the Palais de Shriek was the plentiful temper-
ance outpouring, “Ten Nights in a Bar Room.” It
was a strange item for three publicans to put on, but
thev did it. The monoline man on the morning news-
paper made it read “Ten Knights in a Bar Room.”
But he probably wouldn’t have minded if it had been
10 dukes in a soda-water factor}'.
(Continued on page 36.)


Wear a David Jones
251-
Overcoat
And Keep Warm all the Winter.
An Overcoat that will last the entire season without showing signs
of wear, and keep the wearer comfortably warm in the severest
weather, is, you will agree, undoubtedly cheap at 25/- Such is the
Overcoat we offer, which is made from good, strong, rough-surface
Scotch Tweeds, in Light Grey, Dark Grey, Fawn and Green, with
hol'd fancy stripes.
Long vent at back, turn-back or strapped cuffs. Sizes, 3to 10J.
PRICE 25/-
SENT CARRIAGE PAID THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
David Jones, Ltd.
Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
m
mm
fiug'elmann’s
Pure Herbal
Skii> Soap.
„ “Beauty's Aid.”
Free Sample sent on Receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
\
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap may be ob-‘
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box of three large
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send Postal Note
or: Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- (includ-
ing postage), when box will be posted per return
■■mail. .
Solo Proprietors:
H. E. KUGELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-1 G Queen Street, MELBOURNE; Pitt Street,
SYDNEY ; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
A vicar who has been travelling through
the Holy Land (every religious tradesman
has to have a look at the Holy Land once in
a while, just as the owner of a house has to
crawl underneath with a candle to make
sure the white ants haven’t eaten the foun-
dations) has brought back the depressing
news that Jerusalem isn’t likely to get the
electric trams with which it was threatened.
According to the traveller, David-street is
the only thoroughfare that could swallow a
tram ; but as there are only 300yds. of it,
the vehicle would just be able to run up and
down like a rat in a trap, or a mad cow in
a small yard. Even the Holman Government
might have doubts about the wisdom of con-
structing a line in such a locality with loan
money. In the event of a shortage of cash,
the conductor would hesitate to as"k (he free-
born citizen of Jerusalem for the ex Ira penny
for fear the free-born should thr ttle him
with his turban and advise all his friends to
walk. As a matter of fact, there are no
very reliable street names in Jerusalem.
The Cook’s Tourist Bureau people call their
street —which is nearest to the gate that is
nearest to the railway station at which the
train lands you when you come from Joppa
and Jonah’s whale, aud is also handiest to
the European hotels—David-street on spec.
It looks something like a street, and it looks
as if it might be David. By way of a jest
they call the highway behind Solomon-street.
You can only get through it sideways, and
there is no name on the corner, and no
native thereabouts ever heard of Solomon-
street. But Cook’s people have to amuse
the traveller somehow, and this is one of the
devices they employ.
The abolition of the half-crown in Aus-
tralia has some justification behind it. The
coin is an awkward one, being one-eighth of
a pound, whereas any sensible bit of money
ought to be one-tenth of something else, or
10 times something else. And the half-crown
appears, for some reason or another, to have
a demoralising influence. The dubious trader
has a curious habit of urging you to send
along just that amount. He charges
it for his big bottle of patent medicine. He
prays for 2s. 6d. at all times and seasons.
The Scripture says that a virtuous woman
is a crown —that is to say, five bob—to her
husband, but half that quantity of money is
moral wreckage. A recent Sydney sensation
was concerned with a firm that advertised an
offer of 10yds. of silk for 2s. 6d. A still more
recent annoyance is about a Sydney firm
whose advertisement was taken to mean that
it supplied boots for 2s. 6d. It didn’t supply
boots for 2s. 6d., and that was the reason
why there arose anger, ill-feeling, hostility,
unpleasantness, battle, skirmishes, lying-in-
wait, bitterness, recrimination, objurgation
and similar breaches of the Sabbath calm.
If the very mention of 2s. Gd. was made a
felony the standard of commercial morality
might rise considerably.
The tale of “Singemoine”:—
The Caillaux tragedy is one more tribute to the
rottenness of France’s libel law. There is even more
newspaper license in France than there is in the
U.S. It is almost impossible under the Code Napo-
leon for counsel to secure a conviction against the
most envenomed assailant of a citizen’s personal or
political honor. As to public characters outside
France, they have to submit to the most appalling
attacks on their morality, and so forth. The
boulvardier hears far more about' the secret habits
of prominent Britishers than the Londoner does ; and
criminal charges of an unspeakable nature are con-
stantly being levelled by the satirical press at famous
Germans. It was a Baris weekly that began the
campaign against “the Kaiser’s set” half a dozen
years ago—a campaign in which Harden, the famous
Berlin writer and editor joined, and which ended
in a number of lady-like princes, generals, etc., re-
tiring permanently from Berlin Society.
The unwritten law is the product always either of
bad law or of bad administration. In the United
States a rich man may commit almost any crime and
yet .evade the lethal chair. One effect of this is that
when a more or less affluent criminal does something
more than usually exasperating, he stands to have a
hole drilled in him. And so, in another sense, it is
in France. The Caillauxs could never have hoped to
get a verdict against Calmette, though he was saying
much and hinting more against both of them. They
had both been loose livers, and though a French
crowd is diverted at immorality in the papers, a
French jury takes precisely the same view in such
matters as the stodgiest of British juries. Further-
more, Caillaux would have had ranged against him,
in any such event, the whole Royalist and Catholic
clement —which latter is still enormously strong, and
more so since the convents and monasteries were
wiped out. Caillaux conducted the unpleasant busi-
ness of sequestrating the property of the religious
orders, and the clericals regard him as anti-Christ or
worse. His downfall will give the Church more un-
adulterated joy than it has known in quarter of a
century.
Calmette is the second Parisian newspaper man to
fall before an assassin’s bullet in recent times. The
other case was when a Woman drifted in to destroy
Millerand, of La Lanterne, and in mistake for him
shot, in all good faith, an inoffensive sub-editor.
* *' • *
“Not Without”: The Yass (N.S.W.)
tragedy—the handiwork, according to
evidence given at the inquest, oE a
one-time homicidal maniac who had
been discharged from an asylum as
“cured”—demonstrates yet again the inad-
visability of placing home rule privileges in
the hands of palpable loons. This man had pre-
viously threatened to do for his unhappy
spouse. He was suffering from religious
mania. And yet no one seems to have re-
garded him as mad till the inevitable blood-
letting transpired. The “cured” homicidal
maniac has an imposing array of slaughter
to his (and her) credit. The thing is chiefly
due to the modern mental scientist, who, in
order to justify the existence of his mad-
house, exhibits a keen, and ever-sharpening,
appetite for results —not necessarily as a
guarantee of good faith, but for publication.
Ilis aim is to show a high percentage of
“cured” or “relieved” cases. I have had
considerable experience of such cases, and
the result is that, outside the walls of an
asylum, I wouldn’t, if it carried Harry
Lauder’s salary and prestige, be my brother’s
THE WISDOM OF IGNORANCE.
I tell you, I never danced in
my life."
"Oil , then, you will he able to show
us some new- steps.”
keeper—assuming that he had; ever been in-
carcerated on account of homicidal or re-
ligious leanings. The odds are about six to
four in favor of one who has at some period
of his career expressed his intention of
slaughtering someone carrying out the idea
later on, unless he is watched with an abso-
lutely lynx-like regard. It seems hideously
unfair that the State should allow him to
finally demonstrate his hopeless lunacy on
the persons of his inoffensive relatives.
WHERE THE STRAIN
COMES IN.
“I suppose the composition of a great poem is an exhausting ordeal?”
“ Oh, it’s not that, you know! It’s being obliged to yo through the course of training
before presenting it to the editor that breaks one down, you know!"
Suggestive advt. from Adelaide Adver-
tiseh (21/4/T4) :
VOUNG Girl, clean small office, twice week; no
toff or wowser.—“Sweetheart,” this office.
To the plain, matter-fact intellect of the
ordinary cynical person of the world it looks
as though the heavily respectable ’Tiser were
aiding somebody to acquire a White Slave.
A Wowser can clean a small office just as
well as a young woman who has the joy of
life fully developed; and the aloofest variety
of “tuff” is as satisfactory at this job as a
flagrant donah or female knut. Office-clean-
ing is, in brief, one of those activities into
which the personal element ought not to
enter. There is no more demand, legiti-
mately speaking, for a gay young office-
cleaner than there is for a blithe, care-free
young dustman. Also, there is an atmo-
sphere of profound suspicion hovering round
the would-be employer of young girls who
yearns to be known as “Sweetheart.”
Some people have less luck than others, and
some people have more, and some people get
the tired feeling. Also many people are dead.
A young couple in Melbourne, acting through
their solicitor or available next of kin, they
being laid up and unable to go out and do
business in blankets and an ambulance, ap-
plied last week for extension on two first-class
return tickets to Adelaide. The reason was
simply but eloquently set forth. They had
come from S. Australia on their honeymoon.
On the second day they had been taken ill
in their hotel simultaneously, and betrayed
similar symptoms. They made concentrated
progress from bad to worse, and the race
was a dead heat. On the fifth day both were
operated on for appendicitis. Their severed
appendices were buried together. Now the
loving couple are mooning ( sans honey) in
the same hospital, waiting for their patches
to heal, and slowly recovering from stitch
in the side. And they want an extension of
their return tickets so that they may go back
to Adelaide together, leaving certain lost
innards behind them.
* * * *
England is beginning to put the shutters
up. As a result of the damage done to the
Rokeby Venus at the National Gallery by a
suffragette’s little hatchet, the panic-stricken
authorities have closed the following places
until further notice: The State Apartments,
Windsor Castle; Hampton Court Palace;
Ilolyrood Palace-; Kew Palace; Kensington
Palace ; National Art Gallery ; National Por-
trait Gallery ; Tate Gallery ; Wallace Collec-
tion ; and Guildhall Art Gallery.
“Moana’s” tale :
In Maoriland the Government gives a generous sub-
sidy of 245. in the £ (out of Uncle Cohen’s loan
cash, presumably) on any gift made by any individual
for charitable purposes. Freewill gifts of size are
few and far between, and it is not often that one
runs over four figures, so the strain on the public
cashbox isn’t usually, serious. But when an extra
geneious citizen turns up, like ore Cawthorn, of
Nelson, who recently threw his cheque for £15,000 at
the Nelson Hospital Board, and the Government is
asked to hand out the usual subsidy to the extent of
£lB,OOO, and a harassed Minister gazes in the official
till and notes an absence of loan money, the situa-
tion is embarrassing. The first thing the Govern-
ment did when the sudden request hit it was to faint.
When it recovered it protested that it really in-
tended to nay some day, and said it didn’t anticipate
that the Nelson Hospital would want the cash all at
once. The Board said it wanted the money all right,
whereupon the Government fainted some more, end
on recovering consciousness offered to pay the amount
.in instalments ! When the Board innocently inquired
if the Government would pay interest on the unpaid
amount the Government fell down dead. It was still
dead when the mail closed.
HER SCREAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The girls covered their faces and screamed, and
the burglar at once made off. —Daily paper.
It isn’t safe to trust her with a gun,
And she couldn’t throw a stone to save her life ;
But, though helpless, she can vanquish anyone
With the scream that rings above the loudest strife.
From the backyard, from the mansion, from the park.
Lo! it brings men filled with fury to her aid,
When it trails a flame of terror ’cross the dark.
Till she’s lost her voice, she need not be afraid.
Oh, pity him she screams at 1 Like a hare,
See! He doubles and he dodges in a dream 1
Then upon his back he feels the baleful stare
Of wild legions. How that shrill and fearful scream
Keeps ringing in his hot and buzzing head,
While his sobbing breath comes scalding up . his
throat,
And he toils to get away on feet of lead
To some sanctuary—quiet, cool, remote.
Man, the deep-voiced fighter, trembles at the shriek
As he flies to dodge the wrath that answers squeals.
With the Sweat of terror trickling down his cheek,
See, the dust-puffs rise beneath his guilty heels 1
Neither gun, revolver, baton, fist or boot
Will deter him ! But, dear lady, how he streaks
Like a cur, and leaves behind his pile of loot
When he’s welcomed with a few full-volumed
shrieks !
N.S.W.
THE RHYMING CRIMINAL.


A PLEASANT TONIC FOR ANYBODY WHO IS
“RUN DOWN.”
There are many peop’e hiving no serious
ailment who yet feel “run down ’’ or out of
condition. Appetite is capricious, digestion
imperfect, and there is a general feeling of
depression and lack of vitality. In most of
these cases, the trouble is due to some de-
rangeme it of the digestive functions, and once
this is corrected, there is an immediate return
to normal health and vigour. It may be con-
fidently stated that for this “run down”
condition and for correcting digestive irregu-
larities, there is nothing better than a course
of Angier’s Emulsion. This remedy not only
promotes appetite and soothes and strengthens
the organs of digestion, but it exerts a most
invigora ing tonic influencr upon the general
health. Angier’s Emulsion is pleasant to take,
and agrees perfectly with delicate stomachs. It
isrecommended for lung troubles, digestiveand
bowel disorders, and for “all run down”
conditions and wasting diseases. It is par-
ticularly successful in those “run down’’
conditions associated with nervous symptoms,
and also in those numerous cases, that are
due to an unhealthy condition of the digestive
oigans, with faulty assimilation. It must not
be forgotten that Angier’s Emulsion exerts its
full soothing, healing, disinfectant action
throughout the entire digest ve area, therefore
it is of value even to the average healthy
person, because it keeps the digestive organs
in a normal healthy condition to perform their
functions naturally thus making the use of
pills unnecessary. For twenty-one years it has
been prescribed by the medical profession, and
is a recognised standard remedy of proved
value that may be taken with absolute confi-
dence Of all chemists at 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
Do you sha-e yourself? If so you can
Ret the best results by using a Diamond Edge (brand)
razor; price 7s. 6d. and 10s. 6d. each, postage 6d
extra. Also sole agent for Apex Hair Restorer a
true hair-grower, 4s. 6d and 12s. 6d. a bottle Sup-
plied only by T. Wild, 30 Svdnev Arcade, Svdney *
“EVER-CLEAN" Llgei) Collars
QUITE DISTINCT FROM CELLULOID.
The “Ever-clean” Collar, when wiped over with a wet. sloth or sponge, becomes
quite clean and white. It has the same finish as a linen collar. The saving of
laundry charges, and the convenience of having collars always clean when required,
should appeal at once to men. The collars are quite different from celluloid —the
material is linen solationised .with a special preparation. /
In 3 shapes—Double Collars, If and 2 inches 2/6 each
Single Collars, with small turn-back Points, 2 inches;*:;” 1/0 each
We recently introduced these collars from London, where they are in widespread
use. Please state size.
PEAPES CO. LTD.
Mens Outfitters, 309*311 George Street, Sydney
“0.1.”: Some old stone structures tire
being demolished in Elizabetli-street, near
King-street, Sydney. They in. old times
housed members of the Josephson family,
and in the big room on the top of one an
ancient Turveydrop of dancing, John Clark,
had his assembly rooms. On the Corner
adjoining, Richard Driver had the Three
Tuns Tavern, which was originally the home
of the legal Nortons. There was a time of
rum and madness and onions, when every
second house in Sydney had a liquor license,
and the one between sold beer surrepti-
tiously, and there was a partially concealed
wine emporium in the cellar, and a brandy
“joint” in the backyard. That is why it is
so difficult to write even the scrappiest kind
of old reminiscence without a tavern crawl-
ing into it.
THE STRENUOUS HOLIDAY,
BOSS GANGER : “ Well , Mick, how did you enjoy your Christmas holidays."
MICK: “ Well , to tell yez the truth, O'im glad to be back to worntk for a rest."
The Old Soldier: —
A new type of conscientious objector to military
drill turned up at a Sydney police-court the other
day. It wasn’t the unwilling- warrior himself, but
his father. The latter, it was explained to the Bench,
was so rabid that he had told his son that “if he
went to drill he would be driven out of the house.”
The Bench, instead of insisting on the presence of
the eccentric parent and extracting explanations and
promises of reform from him, agreed to a compro-
mise suggested .by the prosecuting area-officer. The
latter said that “He could find work of a non-
combative character for the boy—he could be set to
clerical work.” As a prophylactic against malinger-
ing, under the guise of “conscientious” detestation of
drill, it would have been better to set the lad to
sweep and scrub out the orderly-room, or office, or
whatever they call it, while the others were at drill.
Also, his sort might be given other jobs. For
example, Sir lan Hamilton, in his “Staff-officer's
Scrap Book,” tells what one of his staff saw in Corea
at the beginning of the war with Russia. “On the
road he passed thousands of the two-wheeled hand-
carts he had just seen larded from the ships. They
were each pulled by three straining little men in
the uniform of the Guards’ infantry. These were the
military coolies, the rejections for height, and for
height only, from the year’s conscription.” Why should
not the Commonwealth provide each of its cadet
battalions with a certain number of handcarts to carry
anything, in the way of baggage that might be re-
quired on a whole-day parade, or a week-end camp,
and to be dragged by the conscientious objectors?
It would diminisn the army of objectors in an aston-
ishing fashion.
* *- * *
The judgment in (lie Locker v. Locker
suit, as reported in the M.L. papers, pro-
vided the world with a speaking likeness of
a certain sort of dairy farmer. The Bench
said :
The following are some of the facts proved, which,
in my opinion, amount to persistent cruelty—namely,
requiring his wife to milk 20 or 30 cows morning
and evening up to the date of the wife being con-
fined ; requiring her to carry buckets of milk when
pregnant, and to commence milking very soon after
the birth of her children ; in addition to housework,
feeding calves, cutting firewood at times; in not
supplying her with pocket money, or in lieu thereof
sufficient clothes, and defendant admits he never
bought her a dress during the five years they lived
together, nor gave her more than £l. It is proved
that ho is, and was for a considerable time, a man
of considerable means ; his smallest income from his
cows must have been well over £5OO a year net, in
addition to having some thousands of pounds of cash
invested, and also in addition to owning land. It is
proved that the wife worked from the early hours of
the morning until well into the evening at milking
and household duties, while she had also to look
after two small children, taking them in a basket
to the cowshed whilst milking.
Despite the mitigating circumstance that this
sturdy busliland toiler never, so far as the
evidence showed, attempted either by force,
threat or persuasion to get anything in the
shape of dirt cheap hard labor out of either
of his basketed offspring, the magistrate
turned upon him the eye of disfavor, and
made an order against him, and spoke harshly
about him, and in other ways heaped con-
tumely on Private Enterprise.
QUITE ANOTHER THING
TEACHER : “Mary, I hear yon have been saying rude things about me in the playground.
I'm very much surprised at you.”
MARY (tearfully): "Please, Miss, I never said YOU was an old maid. ] only said your
mother was.”
Adelaide is having some of the most ex-
pensive law on record. The long-pending
commercial dispute of Teesdale Smith (con-
tractor) with the Tramways Trust has come
on for hearing at last, and sees the unusual
spectacle of lv.C.’s Symon and Paris Nesbit
on the same side, with Villeneuve Smith to
assist. For the Trust are K.C.’s John
Uowner and Piper, with O’Halloran and ’
Poole.
John Hopdom, in Sydney, got properly
scared out of its No. 16’s last week by a
bright youth named Moloney, who had been
arrested on two charges, one for bashing a
fellow citizen, the other for stealing a box of
butter in company. The first case was de-
cided by the Bench awarding Moloney six
months hard labor. Later on, he and his
alleged accomplice stood before the Court
charged with larceny. They were found not
guilty of butter. The accomnlice proudly
bowed to the beak, the police and reporters,
and marched into the street a free though
maligned man. After him pranced his fellow
acquitee, Moloney, through the serried ranks
of the cops. Half an hour later someone
remembered Moloney’s six months stretch
for assault, and a hurried search of the
adjacent scenery failed to find him.
The Oldest Inhabitant sends along a few
more pubs:—
The site of the new theatre, in very close
proximity to St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney,
belonged to the estate of the ancient head of the
Insurance Fire Brigade, I’. ,1. Bown, who built upon
it the Engine House. On the corner half a century
ago was the Kangaroo Inn, run by one of the Yeend
family. Diagonally on the Bathurst-street corner
was the old Emu Inn, a relic of the ’3o’s, and first
opened by one Aarons, whose son became a wealthy
squatter at Wellington (N,S.W.). They sought not
after English names for their pubs in those days.
The Australian brewery occupied one corner, the
Emu another, the Kangaroo the third, and St.
Andrew’s Cathedral the fourth, the name of which
religious distillery was in accord with the wish of
Governor Macquarie, who laid the first stone.
The wife-deserter who bolts long before
he has had a chance to even begin ro
plumb the real horrors of matrimony ap-
pears to be on the increase. Thus a lady
who lately asked Vic. Judge Hood for a
decree nisi explained that her affliction had
left for Sydney, one week after her mar-
riage in ’OB, and had never returned. In the
next case the gentleman had fled in ’OO,
after three weeks’ bliss, to “do some fencing
at Taggerty,” wherever that absurd place
is, and from then onwards the Unknown
swallowed him up, and Mvstery claimed him
for her own. In a suit heard in Sydney
last week the respondent, an actor, went
one—if not tw r o or more—better than either
of the above. He abandoned his beloved
on the steps of a coffee-palace half an hour
after the nuptial ceremony, and proceeded
to Europe or Bourke or somewhere, “to have
his voice trained.” Xhe way of the man
who goes forth to do a job and disappears
from the yearning gaze of his wife for ever
is full of possibilities, and the end of it no
thinker ca'ri v see—or the middle of it either,
for that matter. All that the closest ob-
server can say definitely is that this variety
of casual citizen is on the increase; and he
will add a rider probably to the effect that
he is a blighter and ought to be discour-
aged.
“Croson” complains—
Sundry Melbourne girls have of late developed an
untidy habit of getting- accidentally locked in the
business places at which they toil. They omit to
leave at closing time, and the caretaker disremem-
bers them,, and the night watchman sinks into the
dreamless stupor of his kind, and they are left alone in
a large, silent building, with the darkness, the rats
and stray ghosts for company. Then they rush to
the telephone, if there is one. and it isn't in a
locked office, and urgently beseech the police and
the hre-brigade to haste to the rescue, and bring
ladders and ropes and fire-escapes and so forth. If
they can’t get to the ’phone they climb to a second
or third-storey window and make distressful noises
until the attention of the multitude is attracted
One such, a typiste, transpired the other evening.
She fled distractedly to the ’phone, rang up her
parents and told them of her danger, and then spoke
agitatedly with the Central. Police station. The
Law sent down a vast, bewildered John, who viewed
the beleaguered damsel ’where she moaned and
gesticulated at a high window, and suggested she
should leap into his arms. She' declined, and so he
borrowed a ladder, and asked her to descend by that
Again she declined. Finally, after a couple of
strangers had concentrated their intellects on the
problem of releasing the girl, the Law climbed up
once more, went inside and unscrewed the lock-
socket off the back door, and passed the damsel out, and
screwed the socket on again and returned the way it
had come. It was a tremendous bother over one
small, absent-minded tvpiste, but the causing of
bother, blasphemy and the like is the province of a
certain sort of mild, shrinking female.
I 1 rom the Household Hints’’ department
rvr T th ? IIUTT AND PETONE ClIKONICLE
(M.E.) :—
In eating eggs, if a whisk is not handy, use three
forks instead of one. They are just as easy to hold
as one, and the eggs ean be eaten in about a third
of the time.
A useful tip in these days of wild rush and
scurry and stand-up meals.
THE GHOSTLY CO-RESPONDENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
]t was deposed in the course of a recent Mel-
bourne divorce case that respondent, a spiritualist,
had refused to cohabit with her husband because
she had contracted an affection for an affinity in the
spirit world.
The case was John Dance versus Dance,
With mention of another.
It showed with plenteous circumstance
Dow Jane, a wife and mother,
Ilad thrown conjugal duties o'er,
And said, with marked decision,
She’d live with Mister Dance no more;
As she’d conceived affection for
A most attractive vision.
This fact set up a legal din—
The co-respondent was a Jinn!
The Judge across his volumes bent
(No lawyer was correeter).
The case was minus precedent.
How could he cite a spectre?
The stricken husband, sad and white,
Told how from out his portal
His guilty wife had stolen at night
To smoodge with one who wasn't quite
An ordinary mortal.
How she, despising his rebukes,
Was going gay with gnomes and spooks.
“I’ll have no earthly child,” said she
To Dance, her lord and master.
Her conduct with the dim co-re.
Meanwhile was growing faster.
The lady offered no defence
For co-respondent Pixy,
There had been no appearance, hence
His Honor's final eloquence
I.eft hubby in a fix. He
Gave damages that would atone—
Five thousand ’gainst a ghost unknown!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


The captain loses his ship.
Still, if everybody steered, things
might be worse.
) When everybody drive* « loco-
motive that locomotive * s ,n f° r
an exciting time,
The idea, in fact, is that every-
body is equal except the leader,
who is a servant. This view of
the case can be found in “The
Gondoliers," where the King “ ran
on little errands."
The General may be a
but no regiment that went in
Sion with 500 Generals and no
private ever did much.
The thing marked X is
absent private.
A PARTY WITHOUT LEADERS.
Being a dissertation on some matters which a section of the N.S.W. Labor Caucus has been explaining to Premier Holman.


THE SHAM FIGHTERS.
YOUNG AUSTRALIA: “They’ve been at this game, on and off, for a year, Neither of ’em seems to want to borrow the axe,”


Martin s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin. Chemist, Southampton.*
GAELIC WHISKY
is now supplied in the
NEW PATENT NON-REFILLABLE
GUARANTEE BOTTLE.
The characteristics of GREAT
AGE, PURITY and QUALITY
have been most carefully pre-
served.
Agents: ORME, KEIGWIN gCO.Ltd.
269-271 George Street, Sydney.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS.
V
For
QUALITY.
F v or
DURABILITY.
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [2
EVERY DAY
more people are proving that
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes.
r
>7*‘
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SVDNEV.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
"DICKY"
NEVILL,
the popular
Aide.
Died last week in Melbourne parson A. It.
Edgar, a shining light of local Methodism
who radiated from the Wesley Church and
its “Central Mission.” Rev. Edgar had a
good deal of the true fanatic’s energy and
power of self-deception. On his deathbed he
was capable of writing, in a message to his
flock:—
I love the people as God loves me. My heart is
full, thank God ! of Christ, and longs its message to
declare. .. .1 mount, I fly! What a joyful uplift!
Which might almost persuade a hardened
sinner to be a Methodist had not the vain-
glorious shepherd shown himself as an un-
conscious humbug in two or three notable
instances. Spiritually, (and physically, no
doubt) Edgar lost force a few years ago
through the exposure of the fact that he had
unduly influenced a dying sheep in the dis-'
posal of his property. Somebody’s last will
and testament, prepared under Edgar’s pious
direction, was challenged in the Court of
Probate, and .the Court set the document:
aside. Edgar, or his family, would have
secured a nice fat legacy by this unduly-
influenced will, but it appeared in evidence
that Edgar had professed to ,be quite dis-
THIS WORLD IS FULL OF STEPS. .
What they proposed to do to deal with the Beef
Trust was not to amend the Constitution. They pro-
posed to act as a sensible Government. They would,
take other steps.— W. H. Irvine.
IRVINE: “Oh, dear, no! That's far too-
drastic—we're going to make a pet of the.
poor little thing!"
interested in the matter. In short, the Wes-
leyan parson, when taken by surprise and
cornered, was exactly the usual sort of pre-
varicator, not to say liar. He had all the
natural untruthfulness of a rabid apostle of
Terewth, and he came out of the law case
vyith his halo hanging over one ear. Of
course he did a lot of “good” of the sort:
whicli a hard-working Salv’army major does.
It was his business to be an evangelist, and
for years his natural vitality and ambition,
kept him well supplied with business energy
and push. Finally—previous to the disputed
will case—parson Edgar got so struck on
himself that he decided to make a series of
appearances in the character of Christ up-to-
date. hie notified the newspapers that he
would stroll along Melbourne’s busiest,
thoroughfares every Saturday night preach-
ing the Word as he proceeded, in order to
give careless pleasure-seekers a chance to get
saved at the roadside. Rev. Edgar didn’t-
candidly state that he expected the Saturday
nigliters to drop their beers and follow him
right a,way, but his ambitious suggestion
could be read between the lines of his an-
nouncement. Edgar and his escort of
apostles peregrinated on one Saturday night
only, as far as the writer remembers. The
performance was a farce. A tall,,
stout man, wearing his collar and vest but-
toned at the back, and crying the blessed
Word from the Bourke-street tram-track, in
emulation of the Lord in old Jerusalem, was
nracticall.v inviting ridiculous comparison.
The crowd for the most part neither sneered
nor jeered. People merely stared at the
Wesleyan parson who could march round
town, unaccompanied by a drummer, expect-
ing to make converts by the way. The
failure of Rev. Edgar’s attempt to adapt
ancient methods of' soul-saving to modern
conditions was utter and complete. Mel-
bourne has forgotten that it ever happened.
The veteran lawyer, George Downer, who
has long been too ill to take his place as
chairman of directors of the Bank of Ade-
laide, has at last resigned. He had had 14
years of it, and had been a director for 25
years.
“Moana”: T. H. Whitson, the secretary
of the Union Steamship Co. at Dunedin
(M.L.), retires this month after spending 35
years of his life with the concern. lie joined
the service at Dunedin away back in" 1879
as chief correspondent, and a few years
later was pushed into the secretary’s chair,
where he has remained ever since. His energy
and ability have had a lot to do with the
success that has attended the big M.L. con-
cern. If he wanted to he could get drunk
on the nod in Christchurch,Wellington,
Auckland. Sydney and Fiji, afld occasionally
in Dunedin, where the\ inhabitants work
between whuskies.
John Proctor Gray has gone to join the
loam, at the age of 73. He made soap, was a
Freetrader with a leaning to Protection for
soap; and was, for a short time, a Senator
for N.S.W. in the soap interest.
Henry Holland, the widely-advertised
N.S.W. citizen who ordered his son to take
off his ill-fitting cadet uniform and to abstain
from defending his country, has had experi-
ences in Maoriland. He was in the running
for the billet of Mayor at Wellington when
the law rushed at him with a charge of “sedi-
tion” in the matter of the recent waterside
strike, and said that the bill would be 12
months in gaol.
Passed over suddenly at Christchurch
(M.L.), March 31, D. D. Macfarlane, one of
the Shepherd Kings of Canterbury. He
settled in the pledged isles in the early days,
and took up a great tract of country in
North Canterbury. Some years ago he cut
up a big portion of his well-known Lyndon
estate, and settled 26 families there on easy
terms. That was a practical way of advanc-
ing his closer settlement theories. At the
present time over 130 persons are being
supported by that part of the Lyndon estate,
and they are making it blossom like the beer-
nose.
That much-dangled fruit, the South Aus-
tralian Agent-Generalship, has dropped at
last into a mouth which the many would-be
prophets had overlooked. Fred Young is a
lawyer, and country bred, and in the Peake
Government he has made an unexpected
success as Commissioner- of Crown Lands.
It was he who announced in the Assembly
that someone had written to his firm asking
for a certain Crown lease, and offering a
big sum as “costs” : to which he had caused
a. reply to be sent that things were not done
that way in S.A., and that neither his firm
nor any other could do more than put in a
routine application, at a trifling fee. Young
is only 38, and, as his wife is a daughter
of the immensely wealthy John Darling,
lately deceased, they should be able to keep
Australia’s end up socially in London.
“Jeames” writes from the servants’ hall:—
A cable message (25/4/T4) mentions that Earl de
la Warr has been divorced for the second time. His
stirring career has a certain interest to Australians,
inasmuch as he is a first cousin of Lamington, for-
merly of Queensland ; a son-in-law (or ex-son-in-law)
•of that Brassey, of Victoria, who fell off things with
such persistency ; and a brother of Lady Edeline Strick-
land, of N. S. Wales. In addition, he has a claim
to notice which is cosmopolitan, by reason of the fine,
fruity vigor of his methods. He shares with Earl
Cowley the distinction of being the onlv member of
the King’s Club —the Marlborough—who has been
divorced twice. And he surpasses Cowley’s record in
at least one respect, inasmuch as lie has been made
bankrupt; while his fellow peer still remains sol-
vent. His insolvency arose, in part, from an heroic
but misguided effort to boom Bexhill-on-Sea—an Eng-
lish watering-place that has never been more than
fairly popular. He meant to make a Manly Beach of
it, and it refused to become anything more than a
Cronulla. His mother married en secondes noces, a
country parson of retiring habits, and the twain are
understood to watch the spectacular efforts of their
relative with the stunned interest that a Methody
elder evinces in the early stages of his first visit to
a London night-club.
COMIC HISTORY OF AUSTRALIA.
Astonishing- allegations in Parliament by two
Queensland representatives have caused anxiety in the
External Affairs Department, which admits to-day
that it is not prepared to say that organised smug-
gling of Chinese and Japanese into Australia does not
exist. —News item.
The Restricted Alien.
Miss Sophia Arndell, a connecting link
with N.S.W.’s First Fleet, passed out on
April 19, at Dulwich Hill, Sydney. She
was second daughter of the late Thomas Arn-
dell, of Caddie. Pitt Town, Hawkesbury. The
original Arndell was assistant-surgeon to the
“settlement,” and camped on the llawkes-
bury when he retired from his various* official
troubles. His just-deceased descendant was
aged 80 when she handed back her skift to
the Creator.
The Oldest Inhabitant:—
The Bulletin’s suggestion that the Home Rule
Parliament should build its House on the Hill of
Tara reminds me that I am possibly the only man
in the Commonwealth who was present at Daniel
O’Connell’s great meeting on the historic hill in
1843.
Now, if the Oldest Inhabitant had only men-
tioned what age he was on that occasion,
another problem Wotild have been solved.
JUSTICE NICHOLLS, of Tasmania .
“Public Servant’s” confidential teina'rks :
The selection of F. A. COghlan is Auditor-Genfetal
for N.S.W. surprised the Service, despite its famili-
arity with such shocks. V'errfon, the Cetili rig Auditor-
General, was generally regarded is Att ©fftcial of the
rubber-stamp gender. His subordinates have usually
annexed the credit or something of the scathing
criticisms ©f Labor ifinAhV© contained in the Auditor-
General’s annual reports. The candid remarks therein
contained put out of court any chances that the
higher 'officers in the Audit Department had of pro-
motion. Why F. A. Coghlan went from the Chief Secre-
tary’s office to the Auditor-Generalship isn’t exactly
obvious, though there are a dozen ingenious theories.
Ho doesn’t get promotion, or more power, or patron-
age, but he gets away from Ministerial interference.
The new Auditor-General has not had any technical
training for the billet. He is not a figure man nor
accountant, let alone auditor, but is, all the same,
probably quite equal to the somewhat vague require-
ments of an Auditor-General.
Dr. Golding Bird, some time Dean of
Newcastle, has got what comes some time
to all astute and hefty self-advertisers in the
soul-salving profession, to wit, a bishopric.
You could no more overlook the existence
of Rev. Bird,' when he was in Newcastle,
than you could miss the activities of a
steam-siren. If he wasn’t dealing out re-
buke to the local unions he was springing
vigorously on the masters ; and if he didn’t
draw a full church one Sunday with a dis-
course on some Biblical topic he roped in the
plate-fillers seven days later with the inti-
mation that he was minded to speak on The
Relation of the Picture Show to the Cost
of Living, or The Empty Marriage-Bed or
some such sizzling problem. And if the
newspapers didn’t give him a good advt. —
well, the Dean wasn’t to blame. He is a
living example of the fact that though the
meek inherit the Earth it is the pushful
that inherit the Sees.
“Chasuble” writes:—
Exit Pastor Edgar, the resurrector of Melbourne’s
Wesley Church, and the most distinguished Victorian
Methodist. In 1857 the denomination had a church
in the Collins and Queen streets corner. It sold out
to the Bank of Australasia for £40,000. This
money bulked .most into the entirely new Wesley
Church (Lonsdale-street) and the remainder into
the new churches of Fitzroy, North Melbourne and
Prahran, three familiar edifices of the same design,
by Crouch and Wilson. Excellent churches in work-
manship, but none can be termed successful other-
wise. Wesley Church, opened 1859, was a frightful
white elephant, or rather blue one. It kept steadily
going down in the theological mire till Edgar came
along in 1893. The attendances were then something
like what poor capillary Bevan, admirable preacher
as he was, came to in the magnificent Collins-street
Independent Church. Edgar proposed new stock,
lock and barrel. The Melbourne Tory Wesleyans
were fiercely in opposition, and made a desperate
attempt to shunt Edgar to Maoriland. However, he
triumphed. His Pleasant Sundays Afternoons formed
the backbone, with a grand orchestra, and his
speakers have included almost every man of civil
distinction visiting Melbourne.
BENJAMIN BRIMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Benjamin Brims, a commercial traveller, has been
remanded on a charge of attempting to blackmail the
lady described as Princess Josephine of Thurn and
Taxis. —Uninteresting cable in the daily press.
If I had a name such as Benjamin owns
I’d never add figures, I’d never break stones
For a living—no fear!
A moniker round and sonorous as that
Is as good as a peerage to keep a man fat
And replenished with beer.
I reckon I’d gratify all of my whims
If my parents had christened me Benjamin Brims.
I once knew a ehap called Cadwallader Cobb ;
He squinted ; he wasn’t much good at his job ;
And his wife used to drink.
Each one of these woes was a handicap black,
But nothing could hold old Cadwallader back;
I honestly think
That a man’s like a story; he’ll win in his game
Provided he has a remarkable name.
Suppose you’re in business. A customer comes;
He hems and he haws, and he twiddles his thumbs,
And the deal doesn’t go;
You write to your client; “Just run into town,
And talk the thing over with our Mr. Brown?”
Do you get him? Oh, no!
But you’d snare him a treat if you said, “I would
like
To refer you to our Mr. Paradine Pyke.”
As Amaranth Ambler, or Gallipot Glubb,
A chap should contrive to get tick at a pub
On the strength of his name ;
To be blest with a name such as Emerson Eames
Should bring a man near to accomplishing dreams
Of unspeakable fame.
I envy the titles some fellows have got,
But Benjamin Brims is the best of the lot.
Imagine the stir through a party that swims,
When a waiter sings out, “Mr. Benjamin Brims!”
The people will turn
To whisper and whistle and chatter and look—
And how would it shine on the back of a book !
I’m sure I would spurn
The profits of blackmail as wages of shame
If Benjamin Brims were my baptismal name.
N.S.W.
WILLIAM DOBBS.


OO
w-
-sjf/'>
fiiiwv,
i/,W
x .-V
9
IS-
s
W',
Hi
W'
Footballs In! Crickets Out!
BUT Gowing’s Austral Suits follow the Sporting Cycle all the year round. Cut, finish
and wear of Austral Suits are unsurpassed, being based on the reputation which we
have been solidly building since 1868.
As the pioneers on Australian-made goods, we have always specialised in Vicars Marnckville
Tweeds of all wool, pure wool and nothing but wool ! We quote —
Austral Suits to Measure—63/-, 70/-, 75/-, 84/-, 90/-, 95/-, 105/-, 110/- & 115/-
Send for our new Catalogue of Everything for Men’s and Boys’ Wear.
Special Note. —Come to us for your Winter Overcoat —we have the most complete stock
in the Commonwealth.
GOW I N G BROS.,
). , : < ' 1 '
** PIONEER DISTRIBUTORS OF AUSTRALIAN GOODS,"
■
484, 486, 488 & 490 George Street; & 3,5, 7, 9,11,13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, SYDNEY.


Woodworking Machinery 8 Engineers’ Tools
COVENTRY CHAINS FOR MOTOR LORRIES.
Kindly let us have your enquiries. “ INGECO ” FARM ENGINES.
SIMPSON BROS., 32-34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Overall, McCray, Ltd.
44 Campbell Street
SYDNEY.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS— Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Large Stocks also on hand —Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings,
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Pumps, &c. i Send for Catalogue.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Mutual Provident
Society.:—
ORDINARY DEPARTMENT.
Written
Off, or
Provided
Against Added
Total Ex- Depre- to
Income. Claims, penses. ciation. Funds.
,££ l £ £ £
[1900.. 2,364,216 1,178,107 213,268 17,737 965,104
1901.. 2,456,389 1,389,051 208,749 23,920 834,609
1902.. 2,509,729 1,355,073 218,394 21,663 914,599
'1903.. 2,598,809 1,451,680 229,987 21,832 895,310
1904.. 2,687,155 1,519,890 237,293 37,260 892,712
1905.. 2,794,231 1,642,341 245,242 38,701 I „ rr 0 ,-
Aid to Industrial Department 12,000 f -
1906.. 2,932,755 1,645,681 259,769 29,818 I QQn
Aid to Industrial Department 6,741 (
1907.. 3,086,216 1,738,804 272,267 42,475 1,032,670
1908.. 3,184,488 1,781,750 285,804 40,714 1,076,220
1909.. 3,337,426 1.875,516 296,585 30,947 1,134,378
1910.. 3,492,096 1,84.1,184 291,775 36,366 1,322,771
1911.. 3,676,105 1,986,708 322,047 22,823 1,344,527
1912.. 3,855,890 2,075,701 338,306 31*029 1,410,854
1913.. 3,990,260 2,179,021 345,680 27,342 1,438,223
If ever the A.M.P. is looking' round for someone to
whom it can make» a substantial gift of any of its
surplus cash, it might consider the Mutual Life and
Citizens. A few .fears baok the A.M.P. had the
whole field to itself: it got'fat and lazy and scarcely
moved. Business came to it automatically, and the
society merely took things as they came; in fact, it
didn’t care whether they came or not. Then the
M.L.C. be<ran to look up, and it started out in pur-
suit of the A.M.P. and incidentally in pursuit of
business. So the A.M.P. either had to, bustle or
take a back seat. The table shows that it preferred
to bustle. Since 1906 the amounts added to its
funds have been growing every year. For the five
„ to 1905 the average amount added was
£891,390. From 1906 to 1913 the average was
£1,21 8 ,708. Total income has also kent moving
ahead, and naturally expenses haven’t been stationary.
However, in comparison to the total income they are
being gradually compressed. This will show (o
what extent:—
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1903 ..£8 17 Op.e. 1909 .. £8 12 llp.c.
1904 .. 816 7 „ 1910 .. 8 7 1 „
1905 .. 815 6 „ 1911 .. 815 : 2 „
1906 .. 817 2 „ 1912 .. 815 5 „
190 ' •• 816 5 „ 1913 .. 813 3 „
1908 ..8 19 6,, I
No doubt the new Stamp Duty in N.S.W. will cause
the expenses to expand considerably next year. The
expenses at present are composed of management
exes., £212,059 ; commission, £94,816; taxes,
£36,305; and Officers’ Provident Fund contribution.
£2500. Of the taxes N.S.W. called for only £25
'(stamp duty), and supplied 80,735 policies. ' Maori-
land grabbed no less than £16,795 as taxes, almost
half the total—although the taxes are divided among
the six States, the Commonwealth, Maoriland and
London. Yet the Hungry Islands only provide about
one-sixth of the business. Unfortunately there’s no hint
as to what proportion of the exes. Maoriland calls for.
However, taken all round, the past year’s expense
rate is, with the exception of 1909 and 1910, when
the rates were abnormally low, the best for 10 years.
No exact estimate can be made of what the year’s
new business cost the co. The usual method is to
allow 7 p.c. on the renewal premiums and 3 p.c. on
the consideration for annuities as a fair cost for run-
ning the old business, and reckon everything in
excess of that as being spent in the hunt for new
business. This table shows how last year’s rate com-
pared with those that have gone before. —
Renewal New Ex- New Busi-
Premiums. Premiums. penses. ness Cost.
1877 .. £353,345 £39,951 £58,905 99.6 p.c
1887 .. 837,164 103,694 131,591 70.1
1897 .. 1,220,405 105,788 179,215 87.4
1907 .. 1,791,403 163,348 272,267 85 6 ,
1908 ... 1,868,208 166,640 285.804 91.9 ,
1909 .. 1,944,035 168,972 296,585 88.8 „
1910 .. 2,022,470 185,559 291,775 79.8 „
1911 .. 2,100,236 208,529 322,047 82.3 „
1912 .. 2,199.557 230,282 338.306 78.9 ~
1913 .. 2,311,217 228,901 345,679 79.8 „
Though the rate is slightly above that for the pre-
vious year it is a good way below the average, and
it leaves a fair margin either to be dropped back
into funds or to help to swell the bonus to policy-
hplders.
For this year the bonus is at the rate of 39.1 p.c ,
which is the highest since the boom years of 1888-
1893. But big bonuses may mean various other
things, and chief among them that the policyholders
are paying the co. too much in the shape of pre-
miums. Any insurance co. can, by the simple process
of charging the policy-holders twice as much as they
should, hand out very gaudy bonuses. But there is
no suggestion that the A.M.P. is guilty of these prac-
tices. There are, however, sure signs that its profit
comes from other sources. The actuary assumes
that the interest earned by the co.’s funds will be
from 3 p.c. to 3J p.c., and he bases his premiums on
that estimation. This table shows what the earn-
ings really were:—•
Interest Realised on Average Funds.
1903 £4 810 per cent. 1909 £4 9 8 per cent.
1904 4 9 0 1910 4 9 8
1905 4 9 8 „ 1911 4 9 8
1906 4 9 7 „ 1912 410 5
1907 4 911 „ 1913 411 8 ,
1908 4 9 4
For some years the rate of the return was practically
unchanged. But of late it has moved up, and within
the past two years has shown a substantial rise of
2s. p.c., which, of course, means bigger bonuses
This table gives some idea of how the bonus has
moved:—-
iono (* loom y ear s) •• 40.3 p.c. of premiums
1893-1898 .. . . .. 34 i
1898-1903 34 8 ”
1903-1908 36.0 ”
1909 36.5 „
1910 38.4
1911 38.5 „ - ’’
1912 38.5 „
1913 39.1 „ ”
Another very simple method of increasing the
bonus is to invest the company’s funds so that they
will bring rn a high return, although the security
is risky. The A.M.P. chose the lower rate and the
strong security. Here is a comparison of how the
assets are distributed now, and how they were 10
years ago:—
r , 1903. 1913.
Loans on mortgage . . . . 46.2 p.c. 39.1 p.c.
Public securities .. .. 24.7 „ 37.8
Premises '2.7 1.8 ”
Foreclosures 1-8 .2 ”
Loans on policies .. .. 2i.0 ” ”
Other assets .. .: .. 3.6 ~ ”
So each of the items is moving in a way which tends
to strengthen the security of the A.M.P. policy-
holders’ funds. Public securities—which, having the
whole of the taxable wealth of the country behind
them, are nearest to perfect safety—show a sub-
stantial rise. Loans on policies have, no doubt on
account of the country’s general prosperity, shown a
welcome decrease, and The Bulletin would like to
see it go still further.
. The Industrial branch looks up a bit this year, and
income for the first time exceeds the £200,000 mark:
INDUSTRIAL DEPARTMENT.
Ex- Added to Added to
Income. Claims, penses. Deficit, funds.
1905 .. £6,123 £124 £19,069 £13,070
1906 .. 18,610 669 23,672 5,631 —'
1907 .. 34,551 1689 30,663 £2,199
1908 . . 54,284 2584 36.01 S 15,6.82
1909 .. 77,723 2821 43,488 31,4X4
1910 .. 105,438 4189 51,639 49,610
1911 ..140,660 5775 67,555 67,230
1912 ..187,912 6677 74,998 106,237
1913 . . 230,388 8829 86,776 134,783
There is a steady movement in the right direction in
costs, however:—
1907 . . .. 88.8 p.c. 1911 .. . . 48.1 p.c,
1908 .. .. 66.4 ~ 1912 .. .. 39.9 „
1909 .. .. 55.9 „ 1913 .. .. 37.6 „
1910 . . . . 48.9 „
But when expenses eat up more than one-third of the
income it is liable to turn anyone off. Yet a reduc-
tion from 66.4 in 1908 to 37.6 in 1913 is encourag-
ing.
* * * •
The Bank of Australasia: —
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
Oct., ’04.. 410,066 12p.c.= 96,000 14,000 1,206,951
Apl., ’05.. 136,153 12 „ „ 96,000 10,000 1,237,104
Oct., ’05.. 137,451 12 „ ~ 96,000 11,000 1,267,555
Apl., ’OO.. 137,795 12 „ „ 96,000 12,000 1,297,350
Oct., ’06.. 153,512 14 „ ~ 112,000 12,000 1,326,862
Apl. ’07.. 227,463 14 „ ~112,000 15,000 1,427,325
Oct., ’07.. 188,750 14 „ ~112,000 18,000 1,486,075
Apl., ’OB.. 212,029 14 „ ~112,000 20,000 1,566,104
Oct., ’OB.. 187.691 14 „ ~112,000 15,000 1,626,795
Apl.. ’09.. 174,111 14 „ „ 112,000 12,000 1,676,906
Oct., ’09.. 177,566 14 „ ~112,000 15,000 1,727,472
Apl., ’lO.. 193,722 16 „ ~128,000 18,000 1,775,194
Oct., ’lO.. 198,531 16 „ ~128,000 20,000 1,825,725
Apl.. ’ll.. 198.460 16 „ „ 128,000 20,000 1,876,185
Oct., ’ll.. 205,889 17 „ „ 136,000 20,000 1,926,074
Apl., ’12.. 208,171 17 „ ~136,000 20,000 1,978,245
Oct., ’12.. 216,303 17 „ ~136,000 20,000 2.038,548
Apl.. ’13.. 206,644 17 „ ~136.000 20,000 2,089,192
Premiums on new shares, £600,000. . 2,689,192
Oct., ’13.. 220,977 17p.c = 170,000 20,000 2,720,169
The capital is now £2,000,000 —an extra £400,000
having been got in during the year at a premium
of no less than £600,000. Even then, although the
new capital can’t have been in use for the whole of
the six months, the profit is sufficient, after allowing
the usual £20,000 to be written off, to pay a 17
p.c. dividend and still have £30,000 odd to go to
reserves. It is simply a case of “unto those that
have shall be given.’’ The A’sia’s head office is in
England, and the accounts have to go to London and
come back again before Australia, which supplies
practically all the profits, gets a glance at them. > So
they are ancient history when they arrive here. The
antiquated directors still refer to Australia as one of
“the colonies” (they actually haven’t heard of Federa-
tion. and don’t know that the Commonwealth is made
up of six States, and they probably don’t know that
South Australia was not a “colony” at any time).
Anyhow, this bank, with, its head office in' the old
Teutonic colony of England, had the good fortune to
come through the bank smash marvellously well, and
beyond having to reduce the dividend on several occa-
sions (though never to less than 5 p.c.) it showed no
outward signs of injury. The co. has only missed
dividends for three years-—somewhere between 1840
and 1850, but since then it has paid up regularly.
Since the bank was founded in 1834 no less than
£10,744.750 has been paid to shareholders out of a
total profit of £13,600,854. Thus the English share-
holders have done very well out of “the colonies.”
When a bank can show a record like that, people
don’t need to be urged to trust it. It can pick and
choose its business, and what it doesn’t like it can
pass on to others. Consequently it has only the best
of securities. For the six months under review the
profits were at the somewhat extraordinary rate of
£lO 16s. 2d p.c. on capital (increased) and reserves
combined. Under ordinary circumstances such a rate
would be regarded with suspicion, and the securities
questioned. But the A’sia has large inner reserves,
which of course, earn interest though they are not
disclosed in the accounts. This comparison will give
some idea of how the business of the co. has moved
in 12 months:—
Oct., Oct.,
1912. 1913.
Notes .. .. £184,056 £168,818 Dec. £15,238
Bills, etc. . . 2,722,182 2,768,848 Inc. 46,666
Deposits .. 17,906,493 18,088,955 Inc. 182,462
Liquid assets 7,321,274 8,349.112 Inc. 1,027,838
Advances .. 17,225,792 17,565,435 Inc. 339,643
Premises . . 40,212 2,241 Dec. 37,971
Thus its deposits have increased in 12 months by
£182,462, and the advances by no less than
£339,643. However, during the same period its
stock of liquid assets has been added to by
£1,117,838. The bank’s liabilities to the public
amount to £21,026,621. of which just under 40 p.c.
is held liquid. Looking at it from another point,
there is only £5 2s. lOd. of outside money in the
concern for every £1 belonging to shareholders—
capital and disclosed reserves. The “premises,
£2241.” item is, of course, a joke. The co. has
more than 200 branches in Australia, and its chief
Sydney and Melbourne branches are both exceptionally
fine buildings. So it is safe to say that in this
respect alone the co. has a tidy inner reserve of
about £500,000. Each half-year the bank has written
large sums, generally £20,000, off its premises ; that
was a handy way of disposing of- its surplus cash.
But now that that item has practically disappeared,
the A’sia must find some other means of getting rid
of the burden. If it is allowed to accumulate it will
get out of hand, and one night it will
arise and sit heavily on the bank’s chest, and cause
trouble. And the easiest way out of the difficulty
appears to be an increased dividend. The balance-
sheet is still signed by “Jeans, General Manager,” and
“Blogg, Accountant.” There is a heap of solidity
about “Blogg, Accountant.”
* * * *
Nicholson and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
who sell instruments for making musical and other
noises, etc.: —
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ . £■'£■£ £
Mar., ’09.. 3489 10 p.c. = 3001 380 108 5,720
Mar., ’lO.. 6463 10 „ „ 3446 201 2816 8,536
Sept.,’lo.. 4424 10 „ „ 2486 386 1552 10,088
Premiums on new shares, £2450 .. .. 12,538
Mar., ’ll.. 6655 10 p.c. = 2876 1612 2167 14^705.
Premiums on new shares, £2960 ' . . . . 17 665
Sept.,’ll.. 8151 10 p.c. = 3968 4183 2L848
Premiums on new shares, £4016 .. .. 25 864
Mar., ’12.. 7241 10 p.c. = 5675 956 610 26,474
Sept.,’l2.. 7773 Nil 7773 34-247
Mar., ’13.. 7302 71 p.c.= 5117 2185 36,432
Sept.,’l3.. 8653 71 „ „ 5259 3394 39,826
Mar., ’14.. 6365 71 „ „ 5259 1106 40,932
The capital is now £140,233 ; in 1910 it was
£36,113, so that no less than £104,120 has been
got m in four years, exclusive of £9426 of pre-
miums. Up to 1912,_ a regular 10 p.c. was paid;
for Sept., 1912, the dividend was dropped, but since
then 71 p.c. bas been paiif each half-year, and the
directors announce that they do not intend to go
above that rate until the reserves reach £50,000 —or
£9068 more than they are now. How long this will
take depends on how the business goes. During
1913 £5580 was added, but for the past six months
only £lll6 is left after paying the dividend. On
the showing of the past half-year the profits couldn’t
have stood anything in excess of the 7} p.c. The
co. can’t very well blame increased costs for the
slump, as gross profits show a decline from £36,101
at Sept., 1913, to £33,444 as at March, 1914, while
expenses if anything show a slight decrease. Some
idea of the progress made by the co. can be got from
this comparison:—
LIABILITIES.
Mat.,’o9. Mar.,'l3. Sept-.,’13. Mah,’l4-.
Capital ~ £29,010 £140,233 £140,233 £140,233
Sundry creditors 16,659 57,661 59,995 64*903
Assets-.
Stock v, ~ 22,168 66,117 57,593 60,525
Sundry debtors 30,729 165,562 180,498 185,003
Plant, etc. ~ 2,200 7,086 6,424, 5;835
Cash and sundries 460 1,424 1,299 813
Sundry creditors are certainly on the large side, and
include a bank overdraft of £46,277. Of the
£185,003 of sundry debtors, no less than £170,992
is represented by time-payment contracts. The in-
crease in this Section of the business has been re-
markable, and though sundry debtors have increased
by £36,043 since Sept., 1912, the capital and liabili-
ties have increased by onLy £11,340. During the
year Thomas Davis, who is mainly responsible for
the tremendous growth of the business, died, and the
co. will have to look a long way to find his equal.
Put once a co. like this is .properly established, it
can carry on. And given careful management and
provided there isn’t a very severe slump that will
leave it stranded with a large stock of second-hand
pianos, it should make large profits.
* * * *
When the Insurance Office of Australia
has,finished treading on its own toes, locking itself
out in the cold, and assaulting itself with intent, it
might dig ( out its share register, if it ever had
one, sweep the cobwebs and dust off it, and bring it
up to date. When the co. promised to be a law-
abiding citizen, the editor of this paper bought some
shares. But when the directors and shareholders took
to assassinating one another, instead of attending to
the co.’s affairs, and the whole concern threatened to
fall into a state of chaos, he got full up and sold
all his shares. That was montns ago. But he still
receives stamped and addressed envelopes and proxies
with 3d. duty stamps on them, and notifications that
various meetings will be held bo decide whether the
present directors will be boiled in oil or fried, and
numerous other petty documents. issued either by in-
dividual directors or by the co. His only hope is
that if the co. ever pays a dividend the cheque will
be sent to him as well. It might be good to enact
that any and every transfer will be null and void
unless registered within one month after date of
execution, and that the alleged transferee will be dis-
qualified. A lot of companies beside the 1.0. A. might
think over this point.
* * # *
The Freehold Assets Co. (Melbourne) :
whicli in 1907 succeeded tne Freehold Assc,s Realisa-
tion Co., whose fob was to act as Undertaker to the
Freehold Investment and Banking Co.: —
Reserves.
Taken over from old eo. .. £14,119
To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves.
Jan., 1908 ..£1,484 Nil. £1484 15,603
Written off reserves, £2957 . . .. 12,646
Dec., 1908 .. 6,540 7 p.c. =£5197 1343 13,989
Dec., 1909 .. 7,284 8 „ „ 5939 1345 15,334
Dec., 1910 .. 11,327 10} „ „ 7795 3532 18,866
Dec., 1911 . . 8,569 9 „ ~ 6682 1887 20,753
Dec., 1912 . . 8,319 9 „ „ 6682 1637 22,390
Dec., 1913 .. 8,302 9 „ „ 6682 1620 24,010
This co., which is a licensed dealer in corpses and
mangled remains, now embodies the late lamented
Albert Building Society, the Freehold Assets Realisa-
tion Co. (the ghost of the Freehold Investment and
Banking Co., which was formed in 1882 and sus-
pended payment in 1892, with liabilities of some-
thing- like £1,300,000), and practically all the
shares in the Land Mortgage Bank of Victoria. Tt
took over the last-mentioned institution a year ago,
and the profits were expected to show an improve-
ment on that account. But the improvement has
been mislaid, for a time, at any rate. The Land
Mortgage Bank paid a 7 p.c. dividend for the lat-
ter half of the year, amounting to £2679, and
the Freehold Assets Co. gets practically all
this. The properties -of the Land Mortgage
Bank stand at only £420, so the pur-
chaser will merely go on collecting the instal-
ments due. Besides this it derives revenue from
the repurchase of debentures below cost price, and
from sales —the amount realised in excess of the
written-down book value at which the co. took over
the properties in 1907 being reckoned as profit.
This table will show the progress the co. has made
in getting rid of the properties in hand:—
1908. 1912. 1913.
Liabilities .. ..£89,954 £98,985 £85,829
Realisation suspense a/e. 7,460 19,674 19,787
Property .. . . 76,438 52,854 52,867
Shares in other cos. . . 6,256 102,686 116,917
Balances owing . . 58,440 38,356 26,133
Other assets . . . . 46,589 24.998 11,547
The liabilities are made up of debentures and
interest ( £70,909) and sundry creditors ( £14,919).
The sudden iump in the shares in other cos. is due,
of course, to the lately-acquired interest in the
Land Mortgage Bank. Assets (liquid or easily
convertible) amount to £153,949, and properties to
£52,867; total, £206,816. Liabilities amount to
£85,829, so that, after paying all debts, there are
assets equal to £120.987 to represent £74,245 of
capital. Assuming that the assets are worth 20s.
in the £, that Works out at approx.' 355: in assets
for each £1 of capital. But unless the co. adds still
further to its collection of corpses its income must
begin to dwindle. And then the proportion of
income that goes in working expenses must increase.
Elder’s Trustee and Executor Co.
(Adelaide) :
: Towards
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1910 £458
Mar., Reserves.
1911 . . £468 Nil £468 10
1912 .. 425 Nil 425 435
1913 .. 1722 Nil 1722 2157
1914 .. 2435 6 p.c. = £l2OO 1235 3392
This co., which was formed in 1910, is under the
wing of Elder Smith and Co., of South Aus. in par-
ticular, and Australia in general. Like the majority
of the newer trustee cos. it decided that, though a
large authorised capital was handy to have on the
premises, it could do very well with a small paid
capital. Hence, although £500,000 is authorised,
£lOO,OOO is issued, and only £20.000, or 4s. oer
share, called. Thus there is a callable 16s. on each
of the 100,000 shares as an added guarantee of good
faith to those who leave their estates in its hands.
The co. has made wonderful progress. Naturally
it got the best of everything to start with —the
mere fact that it was connected with Elder Smith’s
is enough for South Aus. Two years ago the trust
estates in hand were £168,795; at March, 1913,
they were £525,269; at March, 1914, when the co.
was only four years old, they were no less than
£1,463,454, almost nine times as much as in 1912.
Commissions and interest have leapt from £863 in
1912 to £2923 in 1913 and £4567 for the past
12 months. What the directors don’t know about
running a business isn’t worth knowing, and there
are few men who could teach the manager much
about his job. So it is extremely risky to expect
a rise in the dividend for some time. With such
a rapidly-increasing business the present capital and
reserves will ~soorr - become inadequate : - then, unless
the co. has accumulated respectable reserves, it will
mean calling in more capital, and that is a thing
that should be deferred as long as possible. The
co. has no liabilities, and no goodwill; its assets
include S.A. Government stocks, £20,000; and cash,
etc., £4392.
* * * *
The balance-sheet of “St. Pateiok’s Soci-
ety, Melbourne Branch,” has readied this office.
The matter has been already alluded to-, but when
the allusion was made the document hadn’t arrived
in all its glory, so full justice wasn’t dime to it.
It may be described as partly a heavenly thrill, partly
a madhouse, and partly a boshter. . Thus on one
side of the Incidental Fund Account thfe biggest item
is “Estimated Value of Hall ivritten out, x. 11,263.”
Why the hall should be written out doesn’t appear.
Among other items are: “General Fluid Dues dis-
tributed wrongly, £262, 19s. 3d.”; “Incidental
Fund Dues (1912) wrctngly debited,, £53 ss; 6d.” ;
“Short credited, £93 7%. 8d.”; “Incidental Fund
Amourtts wrongly debited, £2047 10s., 6d.” ; “Old
Cheques, £6. 18s. Bd.” ; “Dishonored , Cheques, £l6
2s. 6d.”; “Deficiency in Cash JBook, £502 16s.
2d.”; “Approximate Arrears, £62 2s. 3d.”; “Dis-
honored Cheques re-cfedited, £2 13s. 6d.” ; “Shortage
in Receipts, £328 13s. 4d.” ; “Miscellaneous, £22
15s. Id.” Then there are footnotes like this: —
“Fixed Deposit shoVvrt aS £798 should havte been
£800.”
“Loan on Mortgage shown as £2723 should have
been £2596.”
“Savings Bank Cash showh as £ll should have
been £10.”
“Hall a/c bank overdraft not showh should have
been £743.”
“General a/c bank overdraft not shown should have
been £95.”
“Trustees’ a/c bank overdraft not showh should
have been £28.”
“The receipts Side 0 ; f CaSh a/fe for the year i 912
gave no indication that £l5O had been collected in
respect of mortgages, or that £92 had beten col-
lected frohi the District Society.”
And there are short barks like this: (1) “In-
correct”; (2) “the practice is illegal”; (3) ‘‘the
investment is Unauthorised” ; (4) “these should prob-
ably be written off as valueless” ; (5) “probably Other
differences would assert themselves Were the Acbouhts
cheeked sufficiently far back” ; (6) “there is a dis-
crepancy” ; (7) “the books arid accounts are jti a
state Of chaos” ; (8) “the loan ledger had hot Befen
written up for a period of about four years.”
And there ate other items. Apparently St.
Patrick hasn’t been financially sober in Melbourne
since 1910. Isn’t there a need fOr rigid Govern-
ment supervision?
*.* * *
Wheh the Utterly fat Private Enterprise
eo. produces its annual balance-sheet it speaks of the
profits it has been unable to conceal from a wicked
ahd envious world in a carefullv-subdued voice. The
tower of reserves looming behind it is referred to
sorrowfully as its poor hut of refuge against the
streaming wet day it expects next week at latest.
It utters no whoop of joy as it looks forward to the
golden years to come, but folds its coat-tails meekly
over the cash it has concealed therein, and expresses
the nious hope that an all-powerful and possibly unre-
liable Providence will be as merciful as possible.
But, in between whiles, when the tiger of Sosh is
not visible and can’t be smelt, and there seems to be
no special reason for concealment, it throws up its
helltopper and says something that shows it really
isn’t on the verge of bankruptcy. Last week the
giant Broken Hill Prop, paid its 167th dividend,
“absorbing” (beautiful word!) £59,050, and added
in a low voice that, up to May 20, it had distributed
£10,000,000_ in dividends and bonuses! And yet,
with all this. Broken Hill’s death-rate has been
lumping up of late owing to bad sanitation. Now
if there was as much Sosh about as Bruce Smith
thinks some of that £10,000,000 might have been
devoted to drains.
* * * »
The leading copper mines of the Common-
wealth are having a pretty sick time of it. Mines
are wearing a haggard look, and prices for the metal
nave been sagging at the knees. In N.S.W. the
echoes of the Great Cobar thud still drown the cries
of the Burraga and the Grafton Copper. In Queens-
onn*; Elliott looks like having shot its bolt,
as or| ly a dubious prospect of finding another
within the next several months. The Hampden-Clon-
curry passed the last dividend, and announces a creep
at the Macgregor mine, above the 100 ft. level, where
the new shaft threatens to be destroyed. The Mam-
moth, usually of movement, has been precipi-
tating of late. It has had to close down the Clans-
man mme, due to inrush of water. Chillagoe is still
Chillagoe, and Mount Perry is hardly more defunct.
Mount Oxide is shrouded in obscurity, though on the
other hand its neighbor, Oxide Creek—if this mine
can qualify to come into the list—cheerfully displays
.®. “test, development. Mount Morgan is battling
with the ,iob of switching off from an old-new plant
to one that is brand new, and one that is destined to
treat ore of considerably lower grade than did the
now moribund plant, and that will be a bitter pill.
Great Fitzroy shareholders are already beginning to
feel the chill of Outer darkness, though the deben-
ture holders are kept happy enough out of the pro-
ceeds of the last reconstruction and the future pro-
pects of the sale of the Laloki mine. In S.A., the
senile wallaroo and Moonta manages to arrest decay
tor the time being. Flotation and tailings is the
prescription. Lake Pernatty is too young and cheekv
to deserve serious mention as yet. In W.A the
Whim Well is unable to see visitors. Tasmania alone
affords the happy relief from gloom. The Mount
Lyell has only just emerged, with increasing outputs
and profitable superphosphates.
* * *
The Newcastle (N.S.W.) foreign coal
trade has been booming, and our four best oversea
customers- I —Chile, U.S.A., Java and the Straits Settle-
ments—took 213,846 tons more coal during the first
quarter of this year than for the corresponding period
of 1913. The foreign trade increased from 343,808
tons to 595,657 tons, a jump of 251,749 tons, which
has caused Newcastle to order six new 15-ton travel-
ling cranes.' The inter-State and Maoriland trade is
also healthy, having increased for the first quarter by
65,958 tons. The total export to Australasian ports
was 769.972 tons, and to foreign countries 595.657
tons, 1,365,629 tons in three months, valued
So N. S. Wales has great hones that it
will dig up its irreplaceable inheritance very shortly,
and sell it to foreigners for a song. And it gives
three cheers for the time when it will be reduced to
burning cow-dung.
* * * *
N.S.W. Assistant Government Geologist
Carne’s report on the Wellington (N.S.W.) phosphate
find is a damaging document. These are some frag-
ments collected from the report: On Jan. 13, 1914. a
couple of shallow shafts had been sunk, but revealed
no commercial phosphate, the best result being less
than 1 p.c. Later' on, when one of the shafts had
been deepened to 55ft. from the brace, and a drive
put out, an inspection was made and occasional
nodules and boulders of white rock phosphate were
found. “About half-way in the drive what appeared
to be solid phosphate rock proved, on firin'? a shot
at our request, to be a mere skin on the solid lime-
stone wall of the cavern.... From present develop-
ments it would appear that the rich white phosphate
rock is in comparatively very limited quantity, whilst
the value of the remainder depends on the richness and
extent of the cave fillings and bone breccias.” At
Newbrigyn cave nothing of value was discovered.
The Borenore limestone caves, in the Orange district,
were next examined. “Here rich and extensive phos-
phate deposits have been reported, but examination
failed to disclose them.” The prospects of the Gam-
boola Cabonne Phosphates Ltd., at Molong, did not
inspire Carne’s enthusiasm.
The tin output from Vegetable Creek
(N.S.W.) shows a severe drop from its recent average
of six tons to three tons per week, which is not wholly
due to underground causes. Simultaneously with the
cessation of operations at the Rock shaft, shaft-sink-
ing has been commenced at Skinner’s old shaft, the


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (LIMITED)
The LARGEST and STRONGEST
Trustee Company in Australasia.
Acts as
Trustees of Wills and
Settlements.
The CHARGES ARE LOW, and the
Management is in the hands
of Experts.
A Booklet setting out its methods and
'Charges will be sent on application.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY.
m
GAS ENGINES and
SUCTION GAS PLANTS
contain all latest
improvements.
r-uiß*
All engines thoroughly
tested before leaving
our works. [2
m
Posted conspicuously at every railway crossing are
notices giving the public warning to “Stop ! Look 1
and Listen!” The needs of business to-day with its
hurry and scurry—its incessant' striving for bigger
turnover, demand similar signs to those used on our
railroads, which might easily read: “Stop cheating
yourself of profits!” How? To-day thousands of
business men make money upon things saved —ex-
penses curtailed. One of the biggest leakages a
plant can have is leakage in power transmission. But
“Pioneer” leather belting will end it, for by its tight
gripping and non-slipping it keeps your pulleys turn-
ing all the time, using every ounce of power your
machine generates. Pioneer leather belting is made
from the centre cuts of the strongest oak-tanned
Australian leather, and built up with best materials
and along lines which our 55 years’, belt building
experience has taught us is best. Let us send you
samples and prices of “Pioneer.” Write to-day" to
the office nearest you. Pioneer leather belting is
made only by J. C. Ludowici and Son Ltd., Pioneer
Works, 117 York Street, Sydney (opp. Q. V.
Markets), and sold in Victoria by Geo. Russell Pty.
Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne; in South Aus-
tralia by J. McKell, Timpson Street, Adelaide; in
Queensland by Queensland Machinery 00. Ltd., Bris-
bane; in W. Australia by Horace H. Summer,
Howard Street, Perth; in Broken Hill by Geo. C.
Dempster, Argent Street.*
* * * *
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced concrete construction should write for par
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, bv the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our. ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Svdnev
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
* * * «
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
proolem ; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“the Ilardinge Conical Hill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
Ilie Austral Otis king. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are
the sole representatives for them in the Common-
wealth, and will be glad to forward particulars.* fl
* * * *
Extract from Financial News, London, July 12
1911: “The annual report of The Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society affords abundant evidence
that ‘Forward’ is still the watchword of the diree-
tors; for in every direction admirable progress has
been achieved.”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is the lightest pressure
pipe,, and can be carried to places inaccessible to
heavier kinds of piping. Fully-priced descriptive
catalogue, with freights, directions for laying, tables
and formula! free upon application. The Australian Wood
Pipe Ltd., 57 York Street, Sydney (Head Office).*
Amongst orders received since the New Year by
our Brisbane Branch are the following Suction and
Towns Gas Engines: Geo. Stupart, Esq. ; Maryborough,
49 b.h.p., for Electric Lighting; Mackay Harbor
Board, 43 b.h.p., for Stone Crushing : Dr. Voss, Rock-
hampton, two—each 17 b.h.p., for Electric Lighting;
R. H. Treweeke, Goondiwindi, 17 b.h.p., for Sheep-
shearing ; Mrs. Devaney, Gladstone, 13 b.h.p., for
Electric Lighting ; whilst at the present time they are
erecting a 73 b.h.p. Suction Gas Engine and Plant
for Messrs. Harris and Co., Rockhampton, for Electric
Lighting purposes. R. Hornsby and Sons, .Ltd., Mel-
bourne, Sydney and Brisbane.*
*** • *
The highest returns for all kinds of residues are
obtained from Harrington’s Ltd., of 386 George-
street, Sydney, who buy large quantities of jewellers’
sweeps, polishings, handwash and lemel, process
workers’ residues, plating. baths and . any other
materials containing gold, silver or platinum. Assays
are executed for jewellers within two or three hours,
and prospectors and others are assured of immediate
attention. All kinds of analytical and metallurgical
work can be executed promptly, and advice given on
all branches of industrial chemistry and metallurgy.
The whole of the work is directed by a qualified
analyst and metallurgist from Johnson & Sons, Lon-
don, Assavers and Refiners to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, the Council of India, etc., etc. Direct
shipments of large parcels of sweeps, residues, ores,
etc., can be sent direct to Johnson & Sons by arrange-
ment.*
J. Malcolm Newman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Street,
Sydney.*
CLAUDE BRISTOW, Assayer and Analytical
Chemist. Sampling supervised. 93 Pitt Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at -
lowest rates from Felton, Grinnvade and Co., Sample .
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces!
and all modem scientific appliances kept in stock’.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head;
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
* * * *
11.M.A.5. Australia, now in Australian watersg
is fitted entirely with Babcock and Wilcox Watef-
tube Boilers, similar to the H.M.S. New Zea
land and other Dreadnoughts recently built for the
Admiralty.*
* * t * .
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * * .
Assayers, Mine Managebs and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain; weight; pocket transits; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles : chemicals; etc *
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES. 1
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety F use
Detonators
Cartridges
’Phone
CITY-8332.
171 Clarence Street, Sydney
results from which should be of great interest to the
co. This shaft, which has now fallen in, probably
lies somewhere near the deep ground and west of
the Kock shaft workings and between it and Chand-
ler’s. Developments there should give a fair idea of
the long stretch of lead so far unexploited.
* : * *
B. H.' Proprietary announces a shilling
dividend. The four-weekiv report states that 25,414
tons of crudes were raised, which brings the mine
back into line with the North and the South. These
three mines produce about half the lead and pay
more than half the dividends from Broken Hill. The
run of four weeks at the B.H.P. mill gave 4570
tons of lead concentrates from 23,400 tons of
crude ore, and 19,591 tons of tailings. Tailings,
after being reground and concentrated for lead, go
to the zinc separator. No less than 6450 tons of
zinc concentrates were produced in four weeks.
Butler’s Tin, Torrington (N.S.W,), is to
be resuscitated by Melbourne capital. This mine has
been idle for some years, a fact that is not much in
its favor if N.S.W. mining history is anything to go
by. However, one .1. B. Lewis declares that there is
sufficient ore in sight to keep the battery going for
two years, “which should pay working expenses and
capital outlay, and leave a considerable profit.”
Capital is £50,000, in £1 shares. Vendors and pro-
moters are to receive 15,000 shares, with a further
cut for the vendors of £2OOO cash and £3OOO from
the promised profits.
A co. with the impressive title of New
South Wales Consolidated Diamond and Tin Mines
Md. is about to be incorporated. It has under out-
right offer, the Bound Mount mine at Copeton. The
vendors reckon they made this mine pay for eight
years, during the early portion of which the diamonds
that were won realised 6s. per carat. This price is
now elevated to over £l. The mine is claimed to
have yielded 80,000 carats of diamonds and 150 tons
of tin oxide from one-tentli of its workable area. As
in the rest of the diamond mines in this district the
stones are found in river washes of tertiary age.
* * -X- *
Eleanora Gold (N.S.W.) reports a clean-
up of 536A0z. gold from 940 tons of ore. At No. 7
level the No. 3 reef shows a width of 18in., assaying
30dwt. ‘ No. 9 level is in 60ft. from the crosscut, the
face being 72in. wide, assaying 27dwt.
Trong Tin (Perak), another candidate
for Australian affections, holds an area of 720 acres
under a2l years’ lease. Boring operations in the
northern valley testify to 150 acres of granitic sand
lift. deep, containing 2.361 b. of tin oxide per cubic
yard. The karang, or wash, is covered by 10ft. of
silt and fine sand, reducing the average of the material
to be handled to ljlb. tin oxide. In the southern
valley wash has been proved over 180 acres, with a
thickness of 10ft. and average value of 1.161 b. The
sandy overburden is Bft. thick, making a depth of
24ft. of alluvia], averaging o.Blb. AVater is said to
he plentiful and the tin coarse. In fact, for
dredging purposes the deposit is branded as “ideal.”
The hearse is not . yet out for Cathcart,
Ararat (Vic.), though the plumes have been airing
for the past two years. Consequently Harry Dodd
lives on as chairman, George Bryant draws his bit
weekly as mine manager, and Alex. Peacock his £ 260
a year-as legal manager. All told, 3s. in divs. went
to shareholders last half-year, which, from a supposed
dead-up, was a remarkable recovery. George Bryant
reckons 150,0 fathoms remain to be taken out, and,
by rule of three, if 2861 fathoms give 46230 z., then
over 24000 z. ought yet to come. So there ought still
to be a shilling or two left in the claim. Costs run
well on to an oz.
* * * •
Duke and Main Leads, Maryborough
(Vic.), grinds on at a small profit oil the Duke gutter.
As that gutter is a big lead, costs ought to be a
guide to those who argue that the new Langi Logan
cannot work at below 80s. per fathom. The Main Leads
Consols’ record for last two half-years is 495. and
465. per fathom. About 71 p.c. of that 495. is for
mine wages, and another 19 p.c. for profits, laths and
timber. This shows how the alluvial mining industry
finds bread and bacon for the worker. Co.’s dividends
last.half-year were nil, against 9.4 p.c. for the pre-
ceding term. Co. now pays another 6d., making the
total to date 225. per share. Since Jimmy McCrorey
floated the co. in the days when the Main Leads
looked like becoming a mine, gold worth £308,000
has been got. _ Costs have kept well below the 13dwt.
mark, otherwise the £54.000 of divs. would have
had to be shaded off. That sum has come out of
11,520 ft. of gutter. As much ground is left in the
claim as has been panelled, but north 1500 ft. is too
poor to raise for road metal, and beyond that the
run of gold for 1200 ft. is a streak in the gutter.
Beyond, the lead makes west into what to-day is No
Man’s Land. If gold gets into the deep ground there
Main Leads Consols will get on to the div. list again.
Failing that, up will go the shutters.
Victoria United, Ballarat, is very groggy
on what is rather a groggy record. Co.’s mine output
is 441,000 tons, and its gold record 132,4000 z. Divi-
dends have been £51,000, or 255. 3d. per Bs. Id.
share. But the co. is now down to sdwt. stone, which
shades off into a loss. John Bull has a big interest
in the Victoria United, and his man in Ballarat likes
the outlook so little that he wants to wind up. This
can save only a few pence per share, and it isn’t
likely that Ballarat will let one of its last mining
shows be snuffed out that way! The old plan of let-
tmg the working miner take blocks on tribute will
possibly be the expedient adopted—for a time, at any
rate. Those who handled the mine are to blame for
not having kept the dividends down until a fair
working reserve was established. But Ballarat mining
me i l /r ww a ys hve U P to the last penny of their income,
-ind then wonder that calls won’t come in when they
are needed.
It looks a s though Melbourne is going to
Li l v" over Yil ffarn Consols (W.A.). This is an
old show worked bv sundry parties, of working miners,
who took out crushings up to an ounce. There are two
ore bodies, and while values are good in places the
shoots are very short. Outside the limits of the
shoots there is next to nothing. The lode was re-
cently met with at 100 ft., and 10ft. deeper 15dwt
?, r twU hOW i ll8 '’ but the stuff is dense sulphide, and
Him the unfortunate experiences of the Fraser’s South
bxtended and Transvaal to go on, the outlook can
only be regarded, as pale and sickly.
, • Recent fall in Langi Logans
d^ad eS sn 1 C R On r S mi , ninß outl °ok very sick. Ballarat
uas lnX,n B i en< ! lgo • dyil l B ' and D ay!esford m, Ararat
to a° ?, IVe he Vlct orian Exchanges a mild
xcitement, and the Langi boom has been shorter-
lived than the Cathcart. But for a few over-rated
tin shows and the Edna May group, the Melbourne
punter would be lost.
Queensland’s production of copper for the
first three months of this year fell away to 5344} tons
compared with 6389} tons for the first quarter of
1913. A drop of over 1000 tons in the quarterly
yield as well as a decline in the market price of the
metal explains why the mineral return (apart from
gold, coal and precious stones) is only £441,160
compared with £536,637 for the first quarter of
1913. Copper constitutes about three-fourths of
Queensland’s total base metal production.
For the first three months of the year
Stanthorpe (Q.), once the most productive tin field
in the State, turned over 121,711 cub. yds. for
148,1381 b. of black tin worth between £7OOO and
£BOOO. ’the average return per yard pans out
1.211 b. of black tin, but like other dredging concerns
in N.S.W. the profit margin is becoming narrowed
by the fall in the price of the metal. There are
six dredging and sluicing plants at work, and others
are to start very shortly.
Chillagoe (Q.) is the most important
molybdenite field in Australia, although there are
indications that the border of N.S.W. and Queens-
land and parts of Westralia will become producers.
For the first quarter of this year Chillagoe produced
16 tons of molybdenite, value £6623, an average of
£413 per ton.
Charters Towers is still depressed, for
although the aggregate return for three months was
£54,963, dividends come along very slowly. The
principal gold mines on the field crushed' 13,593
tons for £46,643, average £3 Bs. 7d. per ton.
The field can live on that, but it must be remem-
bered that old mines like Mills United, Brilliant
Stockholm and Brilliant Central are now worked to
a large extent by tributors. Mills United has about
90 men on tribute. The return for three months
was 640 tons for £1965. For the same period
Brilliant Extended crushed 5004 tons for £12,649,
averaging over 50s. per ton, but costs are high and
a small loss was reported last month.
* * * *
Mammoth Copper (Q.) reports a bore-
hole development in the hanging wall of No. 2
lode at the 230 ft. level. This drive is in from
30ft. to 40ft., and has had a width of sft. 6in.,
assaying 7 p.c. The bore assays up to 12 p.c., and
as it extends 4ft. into the hanging wall side of the
drive, the proved width is now 9ft. 6in. The end
of the hole is still in ore and some of the stuff
passed through is dense pyrites, which will come
in very handy when smelting is started. This No.
2 lode was cut quite unexpectedly in the crosscut
from the shaft. The main lode was poor in the
crosscut, but is now a fine ore-body at the 182 ft.
fnark, going south.
*.* * *
Under the amalgamation scheme, Mount
Elliott (Q.) parts with £70,000, and only £53,000
of this is ear-marked as working capital. Remem-
bering the struggle Mount Elliott and Hampden had
before getting on to the dividend list, £53,000 looks
very small. Much expensive development work is
necessary, for there isn’t a well-developed show
among Elliott’s new acquisitions. There are 300.000
shares to. be issued, and Mount Elliott gets 190,000
and retains a call over 100,000 shares at par for
two years. That option will cause it to stick to
its surplus cash for some time to come, and if the
option is exercised it will hold 290.000 shares out
of 400,000. Mount Elliott paid £202,837 in divi-
dends last year, which was much more than its net
profit.
* * * *
Mammoth Copper (N.Q.) is employing
40 men at its Chieftain mine, and, according to
Warden Tregear, good progress is being made with
development work and the construction of the new
plant. At the 230 ft. level the southern ore shoot
is showing 15 p.c. ore over a width of 3ft. 6in.
A sft. lode is being driven on to the north, prospect-
ing 7 p.c. These two lodes are quite distinct and are
being driven on in opposite directions.
* * * *
Warden Tregear’s report on the Mount
Mulligan (Q.) coalfield requires to be read in con-
junction with the report from the superintending
engineer. The Warden states that a fault occurred
m the carboniferous formation disturbing the coal
seam, but Chillagoe’s engineer says that the end of
the tunnel—beyond the influence of the fault—is
showing the best seam of bituminous coal he has
seen in the mine. The face shows coking coal
6m., splint coal 3in., coking coal 6in., fireclay 12in.,
overlying 30in. of good coking coal. It is expected
that by the time the railway is through, in Sept.,
1000 tons of coal will have been raised from
development work, and that the mine will maintain
an output of 100 tons per day. A profit of from
2s. to 3s. per ton is considered satisfactory, but
Chillagoe expects to gain indirectly by using its
own coke for smelting purposes. The Mammoth
copper smelter will also require large quantities of
poke.
Kelly’s Queen Block (Charters Towers)
is striving hard to pull off a reconstruction scheme
before the whole of its capital from contributing
shares has been paid up, which is a very unusual
procedure. There are 48,000 contributing shares of
10s. each, on which Bs. 4d. has been paid, leaving
Is. Sd per share —or £4OO0 —callable. But more
than 40,000 are on the co.’s hands (28,600 forfeited,
11,000 liable, to forfeiture, and 1000 surrendered).
Obviously it is impossible to carry on when contri-
buting shares are thrown up in this wholesale fashion,
so the proposal is to reconstruct on a contributing
basis. Still a liability of ss. per share with an issue
of 48,000 is pretty stiff, particularly as the new
undertaking at the W’elcome lease is only a prospect-
ing venture, and the ground is very wet. In these
times people don’t care to shoulder a liability of ss.
per share. The scheme has been coldly received on
the Towers, and there are numerous sellers of the
old paid-up shares at 2d.
Lode Hill, near Cooktown (Q.), got the first
bump of its short life last week when it went topsy-
turvy under the sort of shock that threw the Briseis
Extended on to the dustheap. Frank Powell was
known to be on his way to inspect, and it seemed
as if the selling was due to anxiety as to how he
would measure up the claim. So far, a cold-blooded
inspection of the claim has been wanted to test esti-
mates, and to check bores. Buyers have taken dis-
tant pastures as green, and now in their haste and
shock they regard the same pasture as pure road-
metal. Of course, one innocent round the Melbourne
Stock Exchange muttered when asked, “H’oh, go to
Pernatty. ’Ow could I get noose.” But his fat figure
hasn’t dwindled over the slump, so he hasn’t let
absence of knowledge interfere with his daily square
meals.
Brilliant Deeps (Charters Towers) re-
ports, a crushing of 464 tons for £1363, which is
the poorest lot put through for some time. The
mine will now be worked with two shifts. In two
years (1912-13) this mine has produced £60,000
from 12,144 tons of stone, but some of the money
has gone in development and machinery. Develop-
ment has been costly because the mine was badly
ventilated, and an agreement was made with the
Brilliant Block next door to sink a shaft some 700-
odd feet in order to connect up the workings from
ao. 4 level. Brilliant Deeps agreed to share the expense
of sinking and to drive No. 4 level to a position
near the shaft. The shaft and the drive are com-
pleted, and the crosscut between them measures
100 ft., which is nearly double the estimated distance.
No doubt the connection will be made and the ventila-
tion improved. Brilliant Deeps has given more than
one surprise, so it may shake things up again some
time.
* * * .
A Victorian syndicate with £BOOO to burn
is said to have taken possession of the old Mount
Jackson (W.A.). This show was one of the first
worked in the State, and has swallowed up a good
deal of money in its time. Several attempts to
run it at a profit have failed. One co. raised and
crushed 26,000 tons for a return of 17,0000 z., but
somehow could not earn anything for shareholders.
Ultimately a local co. was formed to work it, but as
sufficient capital could not be obtained, operations
ceased and the mine was abandoned. Want of gold
at depth seems to be its failing.
The Augusta mill (W.A.) has started
crushing at last. This is the Melbourne-financed
property which has a length of shoot about the width
of George-street, and which has under present man-
agement taken a long time to reach the producing
stage. Full accounts of its previous history are to
be found in back numbers of this paper.
* * * *
Marie’s Find at Golden Valley on the
Yilgarn field (W.A. 1 has been taken in hand by a
Melbourne co., with a capital of £4OOO. A narrow
reef carrying good values has been followed down to
shallow depth. A couple of able-bodied miners
might make £lO or £l5 a week out of the show for
a but it is altogether too small for a co.
„ r^ a ?ch was a good dividend month in
nestralia. Altogether £116,593 was distributed by
gold-mining cos., making the total for the first quar-
ter of the year £203,788 and the aggregate to March
31 £24,106,465. Dividends amounting to nearly
£lOO,OOO have been declared payable in April. As
has been the case for some years past the bulk of the
cash paid out is furnished by a few of the big
mines, and, as is well known, these props are grow-
ing less sturdy and prop-like every year.
*** ■ *
Mararoa (W.A.) has sent its managing-
director Henderson to superintend boring operations
at Holden’s Find. The determination of the co. to
spend some of its surplus cash in this way is still
being grumbled at locally, and the allegation that
there are plenty of better shows on the eastern
fields, without going into the far-off fields beyond
Meekatharra, is being rubbed into the directors.
Holden s Find is about as popular in the West as
Home Rule is in Belfast. Its detractors say that
picked parcels will be gouged out of the few leases
showing gold, and for a time may make a fair show-
ing, but in their opinion the field isn’t any good at
all. The best report about it to date is that fur-
nished by an assistant Government geologist, who
said, somewhat guardedly, that Whittaker’s line may
Rve • at depth, and that there was a possibility of
other payable reefs being found. Those interested
in the district should have clubbed together at the
outset and paid Dr. Maclaren, or some other expert
of standing, to inspect and give them the real
strength of things.
»** • . »
Eastern investors had better be careful of
Yilgarn (W.A.). The weirdest and queerest ventures are
being boomed for flotation purposes in Melbourne, Syd-
ney or anywhere else where the public can be induced
to bite, and imaginative stories are being told about
their prospects. Some can, no doubt, be made to
furnish ore for a few crushings, but as alreadj"
pointed out on this page, there will be no real profit
on the work. Writer recently looked at a number
of so-called gold-spangled formations on this wide
and expansive field, and saw none with any signs of
permanence. Some were only fit for the rubbish-
heap. Others ought to have been dumped there
before now.
* * * *
Great Fingall (W.A.) has stopped develop-
ment work pending the completion of timbering and
taking out leading stopes at the 15th, 16th, 17th
and 18th levels. The object of this move is to put
these deep workings in a condition to permit of the
required tonnage being mined. Co. has abandoned
its option on the Big Bell leases, which the local
papers were booming some time back, and which
back numbers of this paper stated sampled far below
what their admirers estimated.
Lake View and Star (W.A.) cheerfully
reports that the lode intersected some time ago at
2100 ft. in the Lake View lease has averaged 51s over
a width of 66in. for the first 43ft. of driving. The
co. attaches much importance to the development on
account of it being in the deepest part of the mine,
and In a property which was expected to have been
worked out long before this.
* * * »
A number of tributors are on gold in the
Boulder No. 1 Co.’s Ivalgoorlie lease. One party has
just taken out a crushing which is expected to return
nearly 50s. per ton. Another is breaking ore of the
same grade, a third reckons that it has stumbled
across a patch of lOoz. to 12oz. stuff, while several
others are reported to be getting good prospects. The
whole of the eastern portion of the property extending
a distance of 1300 ft. from Albert’s shaft to the Great
Boulder boundary is now being tested, and a lot of
pickings are expected to be made by the co. out of
the work. Oroya Links (W.A.) announces that it is
now busy driving at the 900 ft. level of Croesus Pro-
prietary workings, and hopes before long to pick up
all the shoots of ore opened up in the levels above
and particularly in the winze sunk below No. 7 level,
where a fine body of ore was disclosed. Nothing
worth noting is at present taking place in the other
sections of the co.’s mostly worn-out holding.
Whim Well Copper (W.A.) has a habit
of computing its ore reserves, proved or otherwise, in
tonnages that appear to have millions for units. A
while back the mine was visited by a couple of
directors who returned to London with seven-figured
statistics and elongated assay values. A Murex plant
of moderate dimensions was put to treating the car-
bonate ore that is alleged to be there in more than
plentiful abundance. About 130,000 tons of ore are
reported as having been mined since operations
started, half of which is said to have been shipped.
The average value of the ore mined is about 8 p.c.
copper. The richest ore was dressed to 17 pc
copper and bagged, while 11 p.c. copper ore was
shipped in bulk. Yet, somehow, the co. has lacked
spare capital for development, otherwise the mine
should already have proved itself capable of produc-
ing 1,000,000 tons of carbonate ore, neglecting, of
course, the odd millions of sulphide ore that may be
supposed to exist below the water-line. This latter
is said to be comparatively deep, and the lode com-
paratively flat. The Murex process was recently
announced to be a technical success, but figures as to
costs, recoveries and profits are very slow in coming
forward.
Golden Ridge, (W.A.) has been having a
look at the old Cra'iggiemore at Laverton, and may
unwater some of the ancient workings with a yiew to
sampling. Dr. Laver and others worked thjs show
on behalf of a London co. for some years, but a series
of unpleasant developments which occurred at depth
first disheartened them, and finally drove them off
the premises. It does not appear to be the sort of
mine that would suit the Ridge or anyone elsfe ii>
search of profitable undertakings.


CiiiiVlkjillS*
HEERING
RRY
HEERING’S >
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 18)8.
DRAWEE’S
Illusion Perfumes.
in the Lighthouse.
The ORIGINAL and MODEL of all Floral
Essences without Alcohol. Far surpass
all other Scents in their startling fidelity
to. Nature.
m
Violet - - 5/6
All Others - 4/6
Obtainable in
Viole{, R° se > Jasmine,
Lily of the Valley,
Lilac, Mignonette,
Heliotrope, Narcissus,
Carnation, New Mown
Hay, Trefoil, Wistaria.
At all Leading Stores
and Chemists.
Sole Wholesale Agent—
H. KUYATT, 28 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
COGNAC
OTA R D
Otard-Dupuy & Co. BRANDY
Etablis depuis 1795, dans le chateau de Cognac
ou est ne le roi FRANCOIS lelI e I de France.
A
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, April 27, 1914.
My Dear Arini, —
The Shakspeare Festival filled in most of
last week. It was housed in the Town Hall
and turned that large municipal barn
into a medley of Austrian chairlegs
and the tourist’s notion of Stratford-
on-Avon. Organising sec. Grace Bur-
rows, who has been slogging steadily at
this event for months (placating rival
Shakspearian fanatics, and shaping poetic
chaos into a humdrum business proposition)
can now put her feet up and let down her
back hair for five minutes. When last seen
on Saturday night she was carrying off some
of the scenery under one arm, by way of
goading the male person who was suffering
from a tired feeling to look for work.
Mrs. Boult put in a strenuous week in
charge of the amusement column—mostly
dancing—at the Shakspeare Festival, and
hon. sec. Farmer Whyte spread himself over
the daily task, the uncommon round, etc.
The affair was opened with an oration from
our sub-royalty, and the Town Hall plat-
form was filled with officialdom to watch
the living chess parade the floor. Queenie
Boult, in fantastic garb, danced round the
moves, which proceeded to suitable music.
The White King (Norman Zions in private
life) and the Black Queen (Mrs. S.
Maguire) were the handsomest figures on
the floor. The Bishops were so severely
petticoated that they looked like Mrs.
Bishops, but the Rooks were imposing dames
with large watch-towers on their heads.
Frantic excitement, started by a juvenile
prig aged five years, seethed round portion
of the Shakspeare Festival. Some of the
Cleopatra set had stained its arms and legs
to look as much like ancient Egyptians and
Assyrian slaves as possible. When the
Y.W.C.A. infant in a shrill treble asked
her adult guardians to look at the naked
men walking about (on opening day) the
scare began. They looked, and saw in the
distance some highly respectable citizens
who were clad in garb of the same shade as
their skins. No one shrieked for help, but
the dreadful news fled round.
Miss Badham’s young ladies (of the C. of
E. premises) were warned off the establish 1 -
ment by clerical busybodies who hadn’t been
present. The ’phone rang furiously.
Organising Sec. Grace Burrows placed her
spectacles firmly on her nose, to see what
she could see, and tried to track some Adam
to his lair. The Cleopatra set fled to drape
itself in heavy overcoats and top boots, but.
the worst offender of the lot was so fully
clothed —barring his arms and shin bones—
that the rumpus simmered down to Much
Ado About Less than Nothing.
Commissioner Ivempster, of Rhodesia,
went off to Maoriland on Saturday. He
is the man who has been peering into the
closer settlement movement here, and hid
himself so successfully from the society
lion-hunters that they couldn’t even find the
apnroximate number of his telephone. It
was said to be 00.0001. Commissioner K.
has been writing reams of stuff for the Im-
perial Government concerning his flight
through N.S.W.
A new Help is now brushing his hair at
State Government House. He fills a gap
that has been yawning for him since the
departure of Forbes, A.D.C. He is a Cap-
tain Wallis, of a Wiltshire regiment, lately
stationed at Gib., and he came this way by
the Morea. I don’t think a Wiltshire regi-
ment is very heavily upholstered, but no
doubt the recent arrival will make an Im-
pression in our Best Suburbs.
Chamberlain Nevill let the news of his im-
pending departure leak out during his
hurried visit to this port. He didn’t seem as
if he wanted to let it leak out. but a hole
broke in the bottom of the informa-
tion, and the facts fell through. He
leaves Australia in the Niagara (June
29), after giving the Munro-Ferguson team
a helping hand. This time his farewell is
to be finally and ultimate and for the last
time.
According to Report—a frequent liar, by
the way—ex-Aide Verney has been carefully
sounded since his return, re his desire to
acrain stand behind vice-regal backs in Aus-
tralia. But he goes, with his sharp little
lady, to India in July, to rejoin his regi-
ment for a few months. At the end of the
year I fancy Captain Yerney can retire on
Naif-pay, if he chooses—a state of beatitude
combined with other easy circumstances
whioffi makes the old Commonwealth soldier
grit hxs teeth. There is a regrettable lack of
provision for the old Commonwealth soldier.
Minister for Instruction Blair, of Queens-
land, has gone north again, after putting on
his specs at the Premiers’ confabulation in
Melbourne. Mrs. Blair is reputed to be the
beauty of the Queensland Ministerial team —
in its relation to the domestic hearth—and
•she snatched a posy of compliments during
her brief assistance to the Easter Rag
parade.
Ella Caspers, the Goulburn contralto,
ought to fill the Town Hall at her forthcom-
ing chirrup in this town. She has been away
for over six years, doggedly chasing
technique in the British capital, and should
be able to pour forth a song calculated to
give the public its money’s worth.
The Rupert Clarke quest of the Fly River
in Papua started from Circular Quay, per
Dutch packet Van Cloon, on Saturday. The
Kismet —a helpful name for a river craft
that is going to need a lot of luck to see
it to the source of the cannibal-haunted Fly
River —was tucked away somewhere on the
same steamer. The Van Cloon will drop the
Clarke expedition—this side up with care,
at Port Moresby.
There is a Royal Society of St. George in
this town. It breaks out once a year in
Old Tradition, and sits down to solemnly
pretend that it lives in the Middle Ages,
when dragons walked through London, and
set the Thames on fire by breathing at it.
President Lethbridge King took the chair at
the annual banquet the other night, and Gov-
ernor Strickland was induced to explain
things. Women —a few of the official caste —
are now admitted to eat roast beef under the
patronage of St. George (said to have been a
dishonest army contractor in Asia) and in
the presence of a Yeoman of the Guard (the
Guard hasn’t been dead more than 300 years,
so its burial isn’t yet arranged) and a pike-
man. These haughty vassals attended the
baron of beef which was accompanied by some
very wet gravy. There ought to have' been
archers and beefeaters, and men-at-arms, and
halberdiers, and heralds, and armor-bearers,
and vikings, and slingers, and the Roman
legion and the Macedonian phalanx and some
Greek hoplites and sundries, but you can’t
expect everything. Still I think there might
have been hoplites and sundries.
Assertions that the Women’s Handi-
crafts’ Society recently breathed its last,
and had been buried in the cemetery of
Lost Hopes, are unreliable. According to
a press report, the distressful Handicrafts
has only given up a former depot, not the
ghost, and elected a new committee.
Dolores tours Queensland after her Syd-
ney warble in June, under the management
of Birch and Carroll, who have taken over
the Bananaland dates.
Mrs. Elsa Buhrow, for a long time resi-
dent here, left Sydney for Europe the other
day. She was formerly a well-known light
comedy actress on the Continent, and local
amateurs here sometimes had her inimi-
table example to drag them through a charity
entertainment. The German Benevolent
Society handed Mrs. Buhrow a sturdy little
watch, bv wav of thanks for her services to
the Cause, though a German Australian in
distressful circumstances, or without a bit
of sausage stowed away for a droughty day,
is fairly uncommon hereabouts.
The veteran elocution teacher, W. A. Hol-
man, is to have a matinee benefit thrust upon
him by the theatrical profession, of which
he is a member. May 14 is the date. The
Theatre Royal will house this event. Hol-
man senior is the father of that Holman
junior who has the stormy billet of Premier
in the present N.S.W. Cabinet.
The recent Ren6 Maxwell concert in this
hamlet where the rude forefathers sleep
cleared about £350. This makes something
of a record for an affair which was practi-
cally a send-off to a promising student of
vocal gymnastics.
The N.S.W. branch of the Olympic Games
Fund is giving the ball, in aid of the cause,
a hearty push. May 20 is the date of this
frivol, and the place is the Town Hall.
Mrs. Mayoress Richards holds the fort at
innumerable meetings, with Mrs. W. A.
Holman, the Carruthers dame and Mrs.
Charles Wade as chief fellow-conspirators.
Hon. sec. Mrs. Agnes Deery signs her name
to reams of correspondence inviting
presence, your cash, your sympathy and
anything else you have about you except
your debts. Sporting sets are spoken of
in italics as a feature. Swimmers will be
heavily disguised as mermen and mermaids,
and neck-to-tail costume will waggle round
the tango.
J. J. Virgo, formerly secretary or some-
thing of the Y.M.C.A. here, is now in
charge of a similar institution in Lon-
don. Pie wrote to a Sydney friend the other
day in a glow of royal reflection, having
recently trotted the King and Queen round
his Christian Young Men’s premises. Virgo
could get a subscription out of a confirmed
atheist if he had the floor to himself for five
minutes, so he probably found George’s good
lady, Mary, an easy mark for a new set of
hymn-books.
A Maorilander named Chamberlin-
Chamberlin (this is his spelling of the name,
but other people of the same clan spell them-
selves Chamberlain or Chamberlayne), who
is filled with high ideals, arrived here from
England the other day. The ideals are
loaded with notions for the uplifting of the
Maori —according to European codes of
morals. Mr. Chamberlin-Chamberlin, who
once owned the plain, unvarnished : ame of
Tims or Timms, was reared at Te Puke, a
small hamlet about 30 miles from Rotorua.
Timms senior owned a farm thereabouts, and
had a hankering desire to go to England
and change his name to Chamberlin-Chamber-
lin. But he died Timms, and was entered
to that effect in the Recording Angel’s debit
and credit account. So he was in the same
category as Job and Eli and Moses and other
short-dated people of ancient history. His
son, however, set forth on the quest, taking
with him his mother and an adopted Maori
son. These interesting folk passed this way
on their return to M.L. after eight or nine
years absence in England.
Chamberlin-Chamberlin ( ne6 Timms), his
mother, aged 85, and the Maori youth make
as quaint a triplet of quixotic travellers,
burning with a desire to turn a brown man’s
traditions pale white, as we are likely to
bump against in these sordid times. They
are going to make Te Whaiti, about 60 miles
from Rotorua, their headquarters. This is
on the edge of the Urewera country, where
there are still natives who, so the yarn or
narrative goes, have never seen a white
skin. In the inwards of Urewera wilds
lives old Rua, part Tohunga, part
humbug, and chiefly Brigham Young or Solo-
mon. Rua once tramped through Auckland
like Jacob of old, with long curly black
hair and 10 wives at his heels.
Paora Chamberlin-Chamberlin, the brown
hope of his foster parent, will have to take
heed lest he slip back into the old creed
whereof the symbols are a Maori mat and a
coffee-colored wahine.
Ralph Stock, whose “Confessions of a
Tenderfoot” has had a prosperous run
through various editions, is just back from
his native England. His present plans in-
dicate a trip north—thence on a cruise in
search of possible pearls and certain copy
amongst the lovely, lazy Pacific Isles.
The Bush Book Club, which continues to
pour carefully-selected literature into the
tents of the Outback, holds its annual meet-
ing in the Town Hall before this reaches
you. The society points out that it hungers
and thirsts for more cash, and will assuredly
spend as many shillings as it can beg or
borrow on more books for the bush. Lady
Poore gave this club a breezy start, when
she stunned our Best People with the state-
ment that Australians had little or no imag-
ination. Hence the necessity for a Bush
Book Club. The former unswerving deter-
mination to fill Bullocky Bill with letter-
press of the Ella Wheeler Wilcox type has
weakened before a broader sense of Bill’s
forceful way of devouring sporting news.
The selection is less heavily censored and
the all-story magazines are allowed to trickle
through the parcels post. Barring the lurid
outpourings of Victoria Cross and Elinor
Glyn, the club committee is prepared to
pass on any books you can spare—with
many thanks —to the Outback.
Mrs. Walter Elkington, who left Sydney
a while ago, has written to a friend here of
sundry impressions at Monte Carlo during
the gayest month in that dizzy rouge et noir
resort. She says that high, wired collars
are in again. “Everyone wears a neck car-
pet. Yesterday I saw Mrs. Langtry (Lady
de Bathe), Liane de Pougy and Otero at
the same table, gaming. They looked aw-
fully well, for girls of the Victorian era.
But Otero is still lovely. They had their
respective hair done up on top and wore
rabbit-proof collars. The Russian Grand
Duke Cyril (who married a daughter of the
late Duke of Edinburgh) is a startlingly
handsome person, and he games in style. That
is to say. he never puts down less than a
thousand francs at a time, then walks off.
leaving the croupier to tell him the result.
When he wins he always puts one of those
nice, fat gold 100-franc pieces into the
croupier’s box. Thieves abound. I had
my new and lovely blue fox fur taken off
my back while I was reaching over for a
small win.”
The Imperial Dance Salon, off William-
street, is drawing our Most Expensive
People to caper round its ballroom in the
very latest clothes. Its decorations are cal-
culated to make you sit down and think.
Supposing you could grow a garden of un-
fading tropic blooms —gigantic flowers of
red and yellow—and then rear a huge trellis
roof and command your head gardener
(who’d do as lie was told, which is unusual
in a head-gardener) to go aloft. While
aloft —in your roof garden—he would plant
Chinese lanterns and electric bulbs. The
whole would then bloom together, and you
would tango under the results. That’s the
new Imperial dance salon, which grows, in
addition, an orchestra of picked performers.
The Ernest Raleigh duet, the Society Lit-
tles, Consett Stephen, one of the Laidleys,
Marjorie Street, Helen Faithful, the Mac-
neill Simpsons, Gracie Noble, the Frank
Bethunes and a number of frisky young
men who trail R.N. behind them, hopped
round to their own great satisfaction on
Saturday eve.
Carl Bentzen, the aesthetic young Ameri-
can tango expert who wears a soulful ex-
pression over an Abe Lincoln black necktie,
is the teacher who put President Wilson’s
daughter through the tango-tangle a while
ago. He floats round the Imperial ballroom
with a pupil at arm’s length most after-
noons. The fickle Young Person —who once
adored Andrew Higginson and Julius Knight
—is transferring her affections to Bentzen.
The ball on H.M.A.S. Australia occurred
after my last letter was gummed up. It’s
worth a few belated lines, for it reminded
one of a criticism made by a U.S.A. officer
when the Amurkan fleet was here. He said :
“I never go on board a R’yal Navy cralt
without getting cold feet. They always
seem so mighty sorry to see you, and so
almighty glad to get rid of you, that the
American sailor, who’s a genial host, can t
figure out why the R’yal Navy ever re-
quests the pleasure of your presence.” -
The Australia had most of its ironmongery
tucked away under bunting on the night of
the dance. It happened to be calm, but the
visitors would have arrived intact in a gale
of wind, for the gangway was like a long,
covered tube. You fell into it at one end
and were hauled out of it at the other.
Admiral Patey and his slender, dark-browed
lady gave a cold official finger to the herd,
near the top of a stairway. Mayor Richards
and Mrs. Mayoress, and the W. G. Laytons,
got up the steep stairs without falling over
their feet. Others who followed were less
lucky, and bounded on to the deck
like indiarubber dolls. The melancholy
visage of Captain Henderson, R-N.
(isn’t lie in charge of Garden Island:)
lurked near the official group. Lurk-
ing is a fine art and should be studied.
The Stricklands (the Governor and his eldest
treasure) came along, and were headlined,
so to speak, on a platform. Mrs. E red
King’s diamond tiara was one of the events
of the evening. The cheerless-looking Sena-
tor Gould (for Heaven’s sake don’t misprint
this Ghould) brought a nice-looking daughter.
The A. F. Lloyds, of Rose Bay, chaperoned
their tall and pretty girl, a debutante bud.
But it was the night out of the Society
matron. The mere youngster can only hope
to be noticed by something very young in
uniform at a naval hop.
An All England Women’s hockey, team,
led by Miss Gaskell (I wonder if she’s re-
lated to the lady who wrote “Cranford” V).
w r ill dome this way early in July. Later
they go on to the Dominion of Massey to
annihilate (or otherwise) weaker, feminines
who smite the flying ball. The inter-State
hockey week is predestined for July 11, and
(he visitors will not only be able to biff
the ball themselves but will swamp up
rivers of tea between times. The N.S.W.
Women’s Hockey team recently acclaimed
as chairman Miss Winifred West, with
vice-chairman (this sounds complicated)
Cecilia Stephen, lion. sec. Mary Perry, and
hon. treas. Thelma ijong to form a strong-
handed background.
A good show of brush and chisel work has
been enticing even the thrifty Potts Pointer
to spend a few coins on Art. The wares
were exhibited in Artist Ethel Stephens’s big
studio in Kirkton-road, Darlinghurst. Judge
Backhouse was one of the. first buyers, and
marked for his own a gem in oils, “Elizabeth
Bay at Dusk.” This is one of. a series of
small and charming pictures, painted in the
free and slightly impressionist French man-
ner Miss Stephens caught during her stay
at Etaples. The little red blob that spells
“sold” was liberally distributed over this sec-
tion. In still life, a study of zinnias, full
of sunshine, and a big canvas covered with
roses were good enough to steal.
Dorothea Barclay, a Tasmanian girl who
studied sculpture in Melbourne some years
ago, and then bustled off to Paris to catch
the higher technique (on a stepladder, I sup-
pose), returned here to settle down a few
months ago. Settling down, in Sydney as a
sculptress—unless you get into the monu-
mental mason business —is more down than
settle, in a financial sense. This daring
young woman, who showed some fine samples
of her craft at the Ethel Stephens exhibi-
tion, must have the courage of a cage full
of lions to tackle the sculptor’s trade in this
busy land of ever-sprouting bricks and mor-
tar.
Contralto Eileen Boyd has not—at date
of writing—revoked her firm intention of re-
turning this way with the Peter Dawson
concert co. The Australian girl has let down
a tuck or two in her frock since the days
when her childish lilt floated over the foot-
lights of the J.C.W. Co. She seems to have
melted the heart or pen of the usually cold
London critic into an Indian summer warmth
of adjectives, such as “rich contralto voice,”
“artistic singing,” etc. Dawson, the strap-
ping young Adelaide baritone who has done
so well in England, brings out a soprano,
tenor, pianist, and an odd man out, who is
headlined as “entertainer at the piano.”
Assistant Under-Sec. of State for Colonies
Just leaves Melbourne for Canberra on May
1. After looking up the capital city’s
waterholes, and rushing round the firearms
of the Duntroon cadet, he arrives here on
Sunday. May 3. He stays at Govern-
ment House for a week or .10 days.
Intervals are to be spent in tearing
up and down this State in company with
Governor Strickland and Premier Holman.
The Assistant Under-Sec. visitor will be offi-
cially hand-fed by the Mayor and other
luminaries during the snare moments of his
sojourn here. Sir Charles Lucas —Hart-
mann Just’s predecessor —had a look round
the fringe of this continent in 1909, and it
never did us any harm. Also it did him a
lot of good.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORLAN.


‘CHUNDER”
TAKES A TRiP HOME. — Chunder in the Bay of Biscay,
jss***'
"Vi.i.
assjte
Sss?
SSS
®tsXjK
■
B®s
’sp
SusT*.''
igS
23**,
SWS
vSi
&
II
2®
ua
Air
58
ISSSm
M?
V v r
>*«i2
://
Sag
I£S^S%S«SB2
lljggji|
smmk'.
\ \
»%x x
\V\\. V ', V - \ J
V4\ \. . \ /
■i \ \ \ ‘ _!_,
ISHt
/ /
->■>-
j. v
w?
ss&lfvr
iT..,V
‘2.ii.;'" ■''•»■./'■?
/y
V /F ,W* \
v" 1 -
":
ar
mx
gj
.3
\
sZ2
X
■x>
V N
•j js®
Wj
ML $
Rv.S
w
Vs,
>v
£4
sfe
[kXS;
V "K
V. s
ft
nii
y .
w
rm
dmsm
'
m
,Tir 'vvXy. l <
Hi
! '4*
s
x - .1
S#S
itss
"Sc^S
•■■--: a
N v N
N
y
/:
ft*
§*K
S-
’^T
XiXl
seK
•y^CK
' , '**''/-«~r U v
5^
y
/
isv / / 5^
n
1!
<iK
(xxiiz*
LSX-'
»«
&»A
■'■'VZiVX*,.^
VfO*
L ... - t '^f;-_v-,
A.. I
■x.-iraß
gl
Sir'
X
) 'ooee C/ 3/^~>
<4
Cobra,” Boot PolisK
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Brings the storm-tossed
Li ner through.
Though the vessel
Swerve and reel,
His firm touch
Upon the wheel
Guides it safely
Through the rale.
o o
H e was never
Known to fail.
COBRA magic,
I here’ s no doubt
Always keeps
The water out.


THE POPULAR FELT.
SMART SHAPE. GOOD VALUE
The Soft Felt is immensely popular this season. The
snappy smartness and adaptability appeals to young men who
know the styles. Farmer’s offer splendid values in these
admirable Hats, as shown in the line illustrated.
Soft Felts, as illustrated, in Plain or Rough makes, Brims
2} and 24 inches wide; plain or stitched turn-over edges;
bow either at side or back; in the following colors. Greys,
Greens, Fawns and Navys.
Price 12/6; better qualities, 14/6, 15/6 each.
Farmer’s Pay Carriage to Any Part of Australia.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY,
PITT, MARKET & GEORGE STREETS
'W3f
t M
m
7,
i >/i
i! I
For the Americans to force their brand of
order upon Mexico may or mav not be wise.
But it is alwavs wise to seek inspiration
from the royal brand of wisdom —King
George IY. topnotch whisky.*
There is on view at Anthony Hordern &
Sons’ art gallery In the. big building on Brickfield
Hill an interesting collection of artists’ proof etch-
ings and engravings printed in colors by members
of the Society of Graver-Printers, London. Each print
has been designed, engraved and printed by its
creator, and some of the best-known names in the art
world are on the catalogue.*
ARCHER AND CO., 24 Bond St., have
TRUST MONEYS TO LEND in large
and small sums, on Interests under Wills and
in Intestate Estates, and on Freehold Mort-
gage. Lowest rates of interest.
-
The Cost of Motor Cycling
depends on the Tyres used.
To ensure pleasurable and econ-
omical running, it is essential to
use tyres of ample strength and
weight—to withstand the rough
roads in this country.
DUNLOP
MOTOR CYCLE
TYRES
are easily the best in this respect-
in fact they stand alone for hard
work, and are acknowledged
by motor cyclists as
being unequalled for
Wear and Reliability.
* *
STOCKED 1N......
VARIOUS PATTERNS.
OBTAINABLE
ALL DEPOTS.
* *
l DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
f AE.L STATES
m
'v>Vi
%
JXWSI-.. tv.
■■vaSJj-. e ■X-.'-
" -.ijwo'v;.'-.
Jh-c
DUNLOP
TYRES
MAKE CYCLING
CHEAPER and EASIER
CHEAPER-because these reliable
tyres outwear all others.
EASlER—because their resiliency
and speed ensures the maxi-
mum of comfort, whilst
their quality and strength
minimises tyre troubles.
YOU CAN ALWAYS HAVE
TYRE SATISFACTION BY
ORDERING “DUNLOPS.’
OBTAINABLE ALL CYCLE AGENTS.
0 * M
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All States & N. 2.
TYRES
DUNLOP
MILES
are
BLST
THE.
r.\
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, April 27, 1914.
My Dear Yariue, —
A swallow flying northward tells me that
■Hobart is cleaning up the bones of the last
■of its flock of summer visitors. The season
started late, but the warm weather on the
mainland crowded the old city before
Christmas. If the Hobart visitor really
went to see things he would either hold on
■or hold off till the autumn. George Sydney
Jones, the perennial president of the Sydney
Architects’ Association, is still recuperating
there, and is sweeping the gold of the pop-
lars, the copper of the oaks, the blood-red
■of the maples and the emerald of the re-
freshed hillsides into his artistic vision. He
knows the Rhine and other famous European
■ditches, and is not prepared to put the Der-
went Valley second to any of them. His
comments are mostly ecstatic adjectives.
Old Hobart is, however, too weary for
■ecstasies. If it ever had any civic sense it
has mislaid the goods. It seems a city with-
out pride and destitute of ambition. In
20 years it has merely grown 20 years older.
Launceston ought to teach it a lesson.
But then Launceston is not afraid of the
terrible bogey of Socialism. One result is
that Launceston has the most noiseless tram
service in the Commonwealth, owned by the
municipality, while Hobart has the most
racketty, laid down by Private Enterprise.
Twenty years ago the “express” between
the two cities was a joke, and it maintains
its old humor. It does the 100 miles or so
uncomfortably in nearly six hours, and is
so bustled that it cannot stop for more than
11 minutes at the one refreshment station —
where, by the way, refreshments are not
sold. Every Maoriland long-distance train
has a dining car. That might be too much
to expect of Tasmania’s one express, still
even the little Speck should by this time be
civilised enough to provide lavatory accom-
modation on its train-de-luxe. Another 20
years and even that may be done.
The G.-G. Denmans give a final evening
party at Federal Government House this
(Thursday) evening, when they will feed
the hungry and drink the thirsty for the
last time. Men are commanded to appear
in any uniforms they possess. A few tight
Windsor uniforms will have one more air-
ing and try the tempers of their wearers.
(The owners of Windsor costumes here-
abouts have invariably grown too fat for
them.)
The Gaud Mayor and his Gaudier Mayor-
ess are sending forth the gilded pasteboard
which is worshipped almost as fervently
as the Golden Calf. This time it is for a
reception at the Town Hall to say good-bye
to the departing Denmans. All the people
who think they have been overlooked are
waving their arms at the Town Hall and
suffering severely from “Hey!” fever.
Mrs. Shipman gave a tea party to her
friends, at the Oriental Hotel, last week;
and her friends proved to be so numerous
that they made a long, dwindling double row
right down the length of the Winter Garden.
Placed end to end, they might have made a
long, single line out to Prahran. But these
things simply can’t be attempted when
people are in their store clothes. The host-
ess’s cute little turban and Titian hair
(“Titian” hair is sometimes known as “red,”
“ginger” or “Fire Brigade”) showed above
the table at the head (I said they were
drinking tea, didn’t I?), and Miss Pauline
Bindley, guest-in-chief, looked a demure
little mouse alongside in grey. (Miss Bind-
ley, though thoroughly mouse-like, was also
above the table. This, I think, showed com-
mendable self-restraint.) She takes her
singing honors very meekly. The good-look-
ing Paul Dufault was not on view, and some
female worshippers who had come to yearn
wilted terribly with disappointment. Plalf
the women at the table were inside the new-
est veils, which cover the nose and mouth
thickly, but have a fine, transparent mesh
for the eyes to look through. They are
fascinating things, but awkward for taking
refreshment. The guests managed by lower-
ing the fine upper section and wearing them
as immature false beards while they ate and
drank. Fashionable women achieve some
weird effects.
The University students took possession
of the Druids’ Easter Bazaar (Yes, it is
just over!) at the Exhibition, the other
evening, and spent a carefully wild night.
The inevitable fancy-dress procession pre-
ceded a concert at the far end of the Great
Barn, to an audience of open-mouthed flap-
pers. The going home was the carefully-
uproarious climax to a tremendous evening.
The little boys climbed on ton of cable trams,
where they balanced like apes and advertised
themselves as perfect suburban devils, by
howling like hyenas and making discordant
noises. About one in every hundred lads
does this sort of thing because it is natural
to him; the other 99 carefully follow his
lead because it is the sort of thing they
think the public expect of them. And they
are a lamentable sight while they are at
it. The University reveller is a slavishly-
conventional little soul.
The Pankhurst girl is to talk on May 4.
Vida Goldstein is steering her bark, and the
prices are 55., 3s. and 2s. The young lec-
turer on forcible feeding, or whatever it is
she intends to discourse about, looks as meek
and unimpressive as a weary nursemaid ; but
there may be some fire and eloquence inside
her. Muriel Matters, the Australian girl
who got herself chained to a grille or pork
chop in England, and who lectured here some
years ago, arrived with a theatrical flourish
of paragraphs. She had a strong liking for
the limelight; in fact, she was on the stage
in London with Brough for a brief spell
many years ago. Her minor parts, however,
did not satisfy her like her militant suffra-
getting. Someone who knew Muriel in her
most youthful days describes her at that
time as a fanatical highbrow or attempted
brain buster, and relates how she went to
Norway to study Ibsen on the spot, then,
back in London, expounded Ibsen and his
spots in any tony drawing-room that could
stand that sort of thing.
The Repertory Theatre Ball, about which
the Best People are beginning to get very
excited, is to be run on good theatrical lines.
When the double vice-regal party arrives, a
procession of sets will be formed and will
follow the Governors and their suites round
the room for the benefit of the half-guinea
gazers in the balcony. A dance, in which
the set grouping will be preserved, is the
next turn, and, after that, 10 tableaux will
be shown. Ellen Terry and Lauder will
both attend, and every other theatrical per-
sonage who can rush to the scene will be
there.
An American named Wilson gave a supper
party at the Francatelli, on a recent Satur-
day night. The Ada Reeve Cottons were
there, also Daisy Jerome. Towards the
early hours the party indulged in some
music. Ada Reeve, suddenly becoming con-
scious of an appreciative but non-paying
audience of supper people, suggested a col-
lection, and £5O was gathered in. One man
offered a sovereign for a Jerome kiss, and,
the lady agreeing, the buyer hugged her for
about three minutes like a grizzly bear.
Daisy was almost weeping with rage at his
greediness; but Ada saved the situation
more or less by paying another sovereign
and giving her ruffled companion a gentle
sisterly kiss in exchange. The lovely spec-
tacle of one actress osculating another with
butterfly lightness, in order to show the
rude world what a small amount of kiss
ought to be expected from any actress for
twenty shillings, carried its moral with it.
The rule of the stage world, of course, is to
treat every man who spends £1 on stage-
struckery as a fool who deserves nothing for
his money, but should be earnestly encou-
raged to increase his expenditure for
a diminishing reward. The awful man at
the cafe didn’t apparently understand the
rudiments of Thespian philosophy. He was
estimating the value of actresses’ kisses by
his recollection of some pretty typewriter
who had let him lean up against her sweet
young cheek on payment of two pairs of
gloves.
The small monocled Major who walked
in the shadow of tall lan Hamilton was the
scion or scone of a “great” house. He wore
his honors meekly when on duty. In fact,
he was so mouselike when in the shade of
his military lion that acquaintances here
wondered if he could be a mere younger
son. Others stoutly maintained that he was
a cute and knowledgeable officer who was
hiding his brains under a mask. However,
when off duty, the meek Major used to come
out of his shell or mask, and go to Savoy
suppers and be as gay as a bird. That was
when the length of his pedigree and the
height of his incomparable family tree used
to be revealed.
John Pym, of Burgoyne’s, is to be married
on May 20 to Beatrice Derham, daughter of
F. T. Derham, of Kew, who wears the prefix
“Hon.” because of his ancient connection
with the House that was never known to
“Go Hon.”
Mitchell Tovell, a University young man
of hereabouts, is off to Launceston as head-
master of the local Scotch College. It is
cheering to see a local man getting a local
billet. The bigger schools seem to run
abroad when they are short of a head.
Tobacco-importer Ivauffmann died sud-
denly the other day in his sunny middle
age. The bereavement will sadden a joyous
occasion. Mrs. Kauffmann had left
daughter Marjorie in England preparing for
her wedding, while she returned hither to
fetch her husband and a young schoolgirl
daughter.
A lady of some social importance, now
gone Londonwards, lately boasted that she
had acquired for a mere eighteenpence a
nair of valuable antique candlesticks. The
guileless vendor was a Victorian farmer who
thought the relics were made of tin.
The little transaction or job is really
nothing to be proud of. But your true col-
lector’s conscience works that way. He or
she is as ruthless as the little stay-at-home
stamp maniac, who prays for remote revolu-
tions and foreign rapine and slaughter, just
because such catastrophes will probably make
some existing stamp rare and valuable and
bring a new variety on the market.
Maidie Henty and Ronald Cumming sur-
vived a fashionable wedding, on April 23,
at St. John’s, Toorak; also the usual cham-
pagne-confetti scramble, which occurred
later, at Glen Druid, the Toorak house. The
Hentys are the most ancient blue-bloods, so
to speak, of Victorian squattocracy. Their
camp fires are historical and their whales
(they used to shear whales, didn’t they?)
blow in all the records. The Cummings are
a good second up the family tree, and the
alliance set going the tongues of many grey-
headed friends of the respective families.
The Albert Millers’ son William and
Frances Hogg, of Toorak, are the latest
pair to invite congratulations. Some dav in
the not too distant fut-ure, when the birds
are singing and every living creature is mak-
ing its own appointed and appropriate row,
they will hire a reverend gent, to do a sum
in holy subtraction and make them one.
Beautiful as it is to be two, they think it
would be still more exquisite to be only half
as numerous.
Doris Madden gave a sparkling classical
piano recital at the Auditorium on the 23rd,
when a select few of the people who like to
drink mostly with their ears wajidered in,
while another lot went over the road to be
spellbound by Alexander Watson. Doris is
a gentle little girl in spectacles; but she
possesses the strong Carreno brand of arm,
and her spectacles hardly ever get in the
way when she is playing. The composers
dealt with were Beethoven, Chopin, Schu-
mann, Rosenthal and Senabine —a dainty
dish to set before an audience that might
have been a lot more numerous than it was.
Miss Jule Layton, a contralto with a fine
voice and a foggy enunciation, allowed Doris
to have a rest at intervals.
Sheldon, the cherubic-faced conductor of
the Harry Lauder orchestra, began to make
inquiries as soon as he got here about an
unknown uncle. (No! On second thoughts,
he couldn’t have been entirely unknown —
he must at least have been a suspected
uncle) Well, this suspected uncle was
supposed to be pruning a vine or two at
Lyndoch, near Adelaide. He had retired
from the stage, and (to make a long uncle
short) he turned out to be Clarence Leu-
mane, the tenor who was with Williamson
and Musgrove in their early days of man-
agement. He played Faust to Nellie Stew-
art’s Marguerite.
Alexander Watson, the tall, severe-look-
ing reciter with the everlasting memory and
the genius for spellbinding, unwound John
Masefield’s remarkable poem of drink and
salvation, “The Everlasting Mercy,” at one
sitting without prompting or notes. This
feat was performed for the first time at the
Athenaeum the other evening, and, at time
of writing, he is still at it. Watson quite
fearlessly threw the primitive, forceful thing
at the heads and bare shoulders of a crowded
house. Some of the intensely respectable
suburban squaws who shudder when they
overhear loud, coarse toilers urging tired
horses uphill with such language, got the
shock of their tame, well-ordered lives when
the vivid Universal Adjective hurtled across
the polite footlights. Daughters of the said
squaws shot doubtful side-glances of dismay,
then, seeing that mother still retained her
wonted air of massive calm (save for a
slight dilation of the eyes), giggled fur-
tively one to the other. For myself, I
thought of the neat verse attached to Max
Beerbohm’s clever cartoon of John, the
Plain-Speaker:—
A swear-word in a rustic slum,
A simple swear-word is to some,
To Masefield something more.
From my Adelaide correspondent: —
Our new Excellencies have settled down grimly to
toil. If the Empire bursts —well, the tragedy will
be due to no derelictions from duty on their part.
On Wednesday they went to a picture show, to view
on the screen their own arrival the previous Satur-
day. Then there were the Oakbank Races on
Easter Monday; on Thursday a levee and the annual
dinner of the St. George Society at the Grand
Central; on Friday the theatre; and on Saturday a
bulldog show, a bazaar and intercollegiate sports.
Do you wonder that a Yiceroy’s Union is being dis-
cussed, which after affiliation with the Trades Hall,
aims to come out boldly for shorter hours and less
harassing diversity of toil?
By the way, talking of the proposed new union,
Sir Day Bosanquet was paid an instalment of over-
time, voluntarily, by the State last week. It took
the form of having him made a life-member of the
R. A. and H. Society.
Did you know that Lady Galway is a Catholic?
Even so, my dear. And last Sunday she went to St.
Xavier’s Cathedral to mass. As the entire village is
Methody to all intents and purposes, nurtured on
Hocking and cradled in the War Cry, so to speak,
I don’t quite know what we are going to do about
it. The only hope is, it seems to me, that when she
sees how holy we all are she may become converted.
The Winterega Murphys are back from England.
With them are two of Mr. Murphy’s sisters, who are
facing the perils and hardships of Australian bush
life on his station out Broken Hill way. Who said
that the gallant pioneer spirit was dead? At Mr.
Murphy’s station they have to go without iee some-
times for days at a time!
Tattersall’s Autumn Meeting drew a big crowd to
Morphettville on Saturday. Furs, those sure har-
bingers of winter, were much in evidence. My heart
bled for the widowed rabbit and the motherless rab-
bitlet. This happened regularly between each race.
However, the assemblage wasn’t entirely suggestive of
some vast rabbit-battue or coney-drive. Here and
there might be seen some truly noble stoles and
muffs and a few opulent coats.
Most of those who weren’t at the races on Satur-
day or at the swearing-in of the new Ex. were at
the St. Peter’s College oval, watching the sports.
One Pellew captured jboth the lOOvds. championship
and the College Cup, and had various medals given
him by the C.J.’s lady.
The appointment of Mr. F. W. Young as Agent-
General surprised most people. His was about the
only name that hadn’t been mentioned as a “cer-
tainty” for the billet since Mr. Kirkpatrick’s term
of office expired. He—Mr. Young—was born at
Blyth in the Lower North in January of ’76, and at
the age of 13 was despatched to Prince Alfred’s
College. He served his articles in Mr. W. Pope’s
office, and earned his LL.B. degree. In ’99 he set
up on his own account, as senior partner of Young
and Newland, and in 1902 was elected as member for
Stanley. At the next elections he was defeated, but
got in at a by-struggle for Wooroora, which seat
he has held ever since. His attractive wife is a
daughter of the late John Darling.
Sir Hartmann Just arrived from W.A. by the
Warilda on Sunday, and left by Monday’s express
for Melbourne. The Adelaide Club and the Wavs
kept a kindly eye on him while he was here.
Mr. Charles Reade —of the Garden Cities and Town
Planning Association —arrived by the Orvieto on
Saturday, and was met by various citizens at the
Mayor’s parlor on Wednesday afternoon. I don’t
know what occurred in the parlor. I can but dimly
suspect.
Kathleen, younger daughter of the John Gordons,
is engaged to one of the Alan Campbell clan. The
bridegroom-elect is a nephew of Chief Justice Wav’s.
He went with the Fifth Contingent to the Boer War,
and since then has not been much in South Aus-
tralia, mining engineering having called him far
afield.
A “pauper lunatic” ordered t’other day two motor-
cars, a motor-lorry, a motor-cycle and a side-car.
He acted entirely without mala fides, being under
the delusion that he would receive £21,000 during
the day. Thus was he entirely happy during at
least 12 hours. In fact, he was happy even longer
than that, as he expressed contemptuous disbelief of
the Law’s exasperated assurance that he had no
money nor any prospects of the same, and was borne
off to durance still satisfied that all was well with
his banking account. There are points about being
mad, if you only regard it philosophically.
Yours sincerely.
JOHANNA.


*2
i m
*\ ** IS* /’L il*.
v \r~
•i
ii
« "V
l'
k -...
W '
* .*£
•%«?. :
WWa&m
i
ii
•v.’S?
'
k •
■
B H *r•-•”
.
. ■ *
■
' --
,;; v : .r ' •■ ‘r ■• ;«■■-.
.o ,: •i J
i
.
ijgljill
■ . i«
S ... _.!
m
FOP
AMD


m
HMX
For
Windows
Cleaning
windows is
the easy
task with
Bon Ami.
Bon Ami
Market
9
Bon Ami has a velvety fineness and
does its work without scratching.
fh\
- for
Painted
Wood
Worß
Bon Ami
will not hurt
the paint—
removes the
dirt only.
Bon Ami
Sm.aia*td*dUtl
The most wonderful cleaner in the
world invaluable because of its
many uses in the home.
[I
“disculapius”,: In ancient Greece - they used to-
erect temples Over natural springs and give to each
a titular diety. We moderns are ho less appreciative
of the healthful virtues of, a mineral water—only our
methods differ somewhat.; ' For instance, up at the
famous Helidon Spring, the water is secured just as
it bubbles up from the earth, and hermetically sealed
until the process of aeration and bottling is com-
plete. You don’t need a Greek fineness of palate to
appreciate the cool charm of Helidon Spa—it has
the same delicious refreshingness to Billjim as to .the
Earl of Hopetoun. As a blender with wines and
spirits, too, it gives just that added snap and
sparkle that counts so much in the sum of pleasant-
ness. You’ll be wise to always make it a practice to
f’Figaro”; Read a par. here the other week about
Nature planting the giant stinging nettle in N.Q.,
but close beside it the trep' whose leaves serve as an
antidote to its sting. This provision of Nature is
in no way unique, for, just as she curses us with
indigestion so she blesses us with Helidon Spa.
After dining out you’ll have no next morning head-
ache if you take a bottle of “Helidon” before turning
in—this delicious mineral water is Nature’s gift to
those who have dined not wisely but too well. A single
glass will dissolve the undigested food and at the
same time ensure a perfect night's rest. Quite apart
from its health aspect, “Helidon” greatly enhances
the flavor of wines and spirits—so truly the way of
wisdom' is always to
SPLIT IT WITH
HELIDON.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Moana”: An industry peculiar to the
Southern Isles of Maoriland is mutton-birding. This
is in the hands of the Maoris, who go down to the
islands from The Bluff and Riverton during March to
pursue the helpless mutton-bird in his windy lair.
This strange creature (it can hardly be called a
bird) inhabits burrows in the ground, and has to be
dug out before it can be captured and killed. It is
a silly, brainless sort of thing, and doesn’t put up
A TALE WITHOUT WORDS.
any kind of a fight. The birds, which mostly consist
of a blubbery kind of fat, are done up in parcels in
Maori mats after being plucked, cleaned and smoked.
They are considered a great delicacy by the Maoris,
and sell readily wherever there are native settle-
ments, especially in the North Island. The wild
Scawteh sailors of southern M.L., when they’ve taken
on board an excessive cargo of whusky, have a habit
of consuming fried mutton-bird for supper, just as
the inebriated individual in more civilised parts eats
“cray.” Fried mutton-bird is not exactly like any-
thing else on this planet, being a cross between tough
wild goose, smoked wild pig and dried shark fried
in blubber.
“Alo.vsius”: “Leo Lear’s” par. in B.
26/2/’l4 on the bushman’s food and water supply
merely shows the average man’s adaptability to cir-
cumstances. This last dry spell we were camped
near an alleged creek. There being no proper super-
vision, camps were pitched anywhere—near the
waterhole for preference, so as the water would not
have to be carried too far. With no rain worth men-
tioning for a couple of months the water became
brackish and discolored from the leaves and decayed
vegetation. The track leading down to the hole was,
to say the least, in a very insanitary condition. The
only complaint registered for a time, was that the
local storekeeper’s tea was of indifferent qualify,. Then
a couple of the men developed dysentery, and
another was sent off to the hospital and subsequently
died there of typhoid. We decided after this to
approach the Department for a rrv water supply,
and are now getting our water cai d from a river
five miles away. The new brew seems good enough,
but the other day I took a stroll along the river
and found a nigger camp on its banks under half a
mile above whence - our water is drawn, and was
informed by one of the locals that Mary and her
offspring may be seen disporting themselves in the
shallows at any hour of the day. So far I have not
been inconvenienced by the taste of Mary in my
tea, but perhaps that’s because I’ve become used to it.
* * * «
“Vakuta”: Thu remarks of “McNorth”
(22/l/’l4) re the barbarous treatment meted out
to animals by natives both in Australia and Papua,
are hideously true. Take the Papuan’s methods with
turtles. If the unhappy reptile, or whatever it is,
happens to be caught some time before a feast it
is dragged up to the village and left on its Ifack
exposed to the heat of the sun, and so on for an
indefinite time. While slowly dying of starvation it
bores a deep circle in the sand with its agonised
flappers. Its eyes fester. After a few days it goes
blind. Its parched mouth gapes for water. This
grisly spectacle may be witnessed anywhere at any
time in (he coastal regions of the Territory and
Papua. The pig has a swifter but almost as dread-
ful end. He is dragged howling to the feast. A
spear is poked slowly into his anatomy. He howls
louder than ever. This noise is sweet music to the
natives, who join in and keep time blithely with the
infernal uproar. This infamy often lasts for hours.
All such game as pigeons, ducks, etc., are villain-
ously treated by the natives, who show no mercy to
anything alive. Surely the Government officials who
swarm in these parts could instruct the brown and
black devils of their districts in the elements of
humanity, and, if the said fiends proved recalcitrant,
deal with them accordingly?
Bad Australian” (from Argentine) : It
was in Buhdaberg in the bad old days before the
nigger was fired out that I first struck a really
flourishing alfalfa patch. I saw that patch cut four
times, in five months, and it struck me at thq time
that alfalfa was a darned fine crop to grow on the
Burnett flats. Since then I have found that it is a
topnotch vegetable in almost any
old place, provided the soil gives
the roots a chance to get down. I
have met it at intervals from sea-
level to the summit of the Andes,
and through all the varying cli-
matic changes which altitude gives
this plant flourishes more per-
sistently than lantana in Queens-
land. In some parts of Bolivia
alfalfa is grown on drained salt
marshes, irrigated by the most
virulently brackish water on the
planet. This result has been
attained by selecting the best seed
and planting on land with a low
percentage of salt in it, using the
seed resulting from that crop on
land containing a trifle more salt,
and repeating the process until a
plant has_ been evolved that would
sprout on the pillar of salt that
testified to the inquisitiveness of
the late Mrs. Lot, of Judaea. The
staple fodder of this continent is
alfalfa. Oaten or wheaten hay
is practically unknown, and the
amount of solid work the South
American mule, burro and horse
get away with on a few kilos of
alfalfa per day is about the worst
kind of a surprise to folks who use ,
grain-fed animals. The highly - -
nutritive qualities of, alfalfa, and
its wide range, from sea-level to
ll,oooft. above, and possibly
higher, give it an easy first place
as the most valuable fodder plant
yet known. Australia has thou-
sands of square miles of ideal
alfalfa land, and it is up to the
man with the hoe to give the
light kind of “lucerne” the serious attention it
deserves.
The long arm of coincidence got a man
named Evans on the nor’-west coast of Tas. recently.
Years or so ago one Meaves, camped at the Arthur
River, was killed by a splinter, from a falling tree.
The splinter pierced his heart and dented the silver
watch he was carrying. Eighteen months after Meaves’s
death his widow became engaged to Evans and gave
him the dead man’s watch. Evans was camped on the
Arthur River within 100 yards of the camp of Meaves.
Evans was killed also by a splinter from a falling tree,
and a flying fragment Of wood again dented the
watch case.
THE NECESSARY PLEDGE.
MR. OUTBACK: “I see a bloke's gotter leave his umbrella wid yer afore he kin go inter
see the picturs.”
ATTENDANT: “ Correct, sir.”
MR. OUTBACK: "Well, I hain't got no umbrella. Will yer take me overcoat instid?”
“Moaria”: Wandering through Maoriland
I struck a fine sample of a “laundress” in one of the
famous, Wowser-bossed, “dry” townships. He was a
fine, strapping, able-bodied sort of chap, and he- was
making the soapsuds fly at the washtub when I
dropped in with the collars. I discovered in the
course of conversation that he and his wife had run
the local laundry practically alone for some years.
“I used to collect the duds, take home the clean stuff,
collect the cash and generally chase business while,
the missus did the washing and ironing,” Bill ex-
plained. “But a couple of years- ago she got bad,
and I had to take on r the whole job for a while.
After that, no more-of the business side for me. I
shoved the missus on to that. She’s better can-
vasser than me. I couldn’t stand' it, anyhow. Scrap-
ping over a penn'orth of collars wasn’t in my line.”
I met the "business end of this-strange partnership a
few days later, and a ’smart, busiffessdike little
woman she was. Thy last I'saw of Bill he was puff-
ing contentedly at his pipe as he stood at the wash-
tub soaping a shirt.
“Pickliandle” : It’s time somebody re-
peated a curse against' the poison cart for the exter-
mination of rabbits. As a reducer of rabbit it is a
rank failure-; as an exterminator of - all our native,
insectivorous bird life it is a howling success. Gov-
erning bodies have known for some considerable time
that the gradual extinction of bird life (per medium
of the poison cart) Is the main pause Off maggoty
sheep, yet they hav6 taken no stops to stop the cart,
but are still sending round their- inspectors and im-
posing fines where it is not used,-: To say there is no
better way of outing. bunny is mere ignorance. A
family of brothers,'living within, rifle shot of me has
, entirely wiped out. the pest ;on their selection by
digging. The selection is no flyspeck either,
and the total cost 4 , .(wages, etc.) Was 7id. per acre.
Here’s another thing. Kangaroos, wallabies; emus
and ’possums are protected animals. If I fake my
Winchester and knock over a kangaroo 'the local
John pounces on me with all his l4.’stone, the. P.M.
deals out his severest look: and the' Government takes,
a few quid of my usuaUy hard-earneif' dough. (But
our local cockies fence their tanks in summer, place
poisoned water handy for Mr. Rabbit (well, they say
so), and the result Will the editor of Aborigi-
nalities Page come and have >a. look at three nights’
work at this game? Rabbits, ‘’roos. wallabies, emus,
(possums and whips of birds are piled Up. Does the
Representative of lawanorder take any action ? No
fear. At least, I’ve never known hint to do anything
but clutch his nose with two ‘ hands, and beat up
against the wind.
“T.T.” ; This praying for rain business
requires looking into. My idea is, if it is possible,
as some people think, to secure rain by spasmodic
praying, we should have a Government Praying
Bureau, and keep it always on the job. By so doing
we should be able to secure uniform good seasons,
instead of the present unsatisfactory arrangements
with Providence. There might be a department
WAITING TO SEE
THE CONTRACT.
“I've been called by the Lord to a new church,
Mrss Leedehvigg
“Oh, dear! But you surely ain't never gointer
go, Mr. Pydrop?”
“T. don t know, Mrs. Leedeiwigg. I (a-hem!)
haven I s heard the. salary stated yet.”
allotted to representative praying experts belonging
to the Anglicans, R.C.’s, Methodists and other sects,
and in time it would be ascertained which sect had
the strongest influence. Then the best Rain-Church
would be made the Established Church of Australia,
and its head would be the Arch-Drizzler of the
“whole continent, and everything in the garden would
be damp and green and lovely.
(Continued on page 24J
OUR AVIATING RIVERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A most remarkable feature is that the Belubula
River has not flown since November last, and it is
now, and has been for months, nothing hut a bed of
sand. —-Sydney P.T.. 13/4/’l4.
There are thousands of rivers all over the earth,
Like the Amazon, Nile, Orinoco and Forth,
lloang-Ho, Irrawaddy, St. Lawrence and Seine —
lo mention the rest is too much of a strain.
But large, small, long, sluggish or swift though they
be,
As they rush, or meander, along to the sea.
There’s never a river among the whole lot
That can do things like some of the rivers we'cc got!
Their ways are surprising! For instance, some years
The Federal water-supply disappears!
And even the experts can’t very well say
How long the Molonglo is likely to stay;
Or whether the turbid, okl Murrumbidgee
Will stop in the back-blocks or leave for the sea;
IV hile even the Cotter—once reckoned a cert.—
ilas cleared out for weeks when its feelings were
hurt!
Like genii our rivers assume every size—
The mighty Ashburton at times nearly dries ;
While, several days later, it swirls in a tide,
To the Indian Ocean, full thirty miles wide!
And the old-maid-like Murray will shrink in its bed,
Or rage in a tantrum, by snow waters fed !
Oh, the rivers are few and remarkably queer
That just stick to rivering all round the year!
And, queerest of all, you may take it from me,
On the word of the accurate Sydney D.T.,
Is the River Belubula, known near and far
As the Champion Flier of rivers that are 1
But the river’s turned sulky—and no one knows
why,
For, though able to do it, it simply won't fly !
Sonic say its refusal is just due to spite
At the fast-flying stream of the Dryberra Site.
(Oh, clearly that must be the reason all right!)
N.s.w.
PETRONIUS EARBITER.


NINETEEN thousand five hundred previous buyers have been satisfied. We have
made and sold that number of pianos, and more Beale Pianos aie used in
Australia than of any other make —British or foreign. They withstand alike t e
desiccation of our torrid summers in Kalgoorlie, Broken Hill and Cobar, or the meting
moisture of sugar lands in North Oueensland and Fiji. You are safe with a ea e
Piano in any climate.
The most perishable part of all other pianos is admittedly tue tuning system 01
wrest-plank. The Beale tuning-system being solely of iron and steel is wananted to last
for generations, it cannot fail, and every buyer will confirm this. A wooden plank wi
gradually crush, as all makers have to admit, under frequent tuning and twisting o tie
pins. No matter how often tuned —and with Beale pianos tuning is seldom lequne
the Beale system is not affected.
Beale Pianos contain the choicest Action in the world, by the most expensive makeis
of Pans, specially prepared for the Beale Pianos. Similar actions aie also usee ly tie
leading piano builders of America, France, England and Germany, but on y in t e
higher class.
Beale Pianos although made particularly for exacting Australian conditions have a reputation abroad of which we
possess abundant proofs. They have won the Grand Prix and three gold medals at tie giea ranco n . ’
London, 1908. Our pianos are solely used in the splendid Strand Palace Hotel, London, and at an aristocratic Fi c-
side resort. Thev are used by the European manager of the Chinese railways and also m Africa, whilst recently we have
received an unsolicited order for Beale Horizontal Grands to be prepared i ; r the largest hotel m Europe, which is now
approaching completion. Of this latter, further particulars will be advertised, with illustrations.
Quality for quality you will make a big saving in price.
Buvino- direct from the makers you save customs duty and middlemen s profits.
You get a longer-lasting piano and twenty five yeais actual guarantee.
Your Beale Piano will have a better touch consequent upon the high-class Action.
The sound boards are warranted not to crack or lose their camber, hence a violin-like quality results, producing the
tone for which our pianos are everywhere famous.
If ur Bea ] e pi aTIO should at any time meet with an accident or misfortune we have all parts always ready so that
you can rely upon its perfect restoration. You can only be sure of this with the actual makers.
Where easy terms are required we issue a FREE LIFE POLICY, so that in case of death the instrument becomes
the property of the customer without any further payment, thus removing anxiety in time of trouble.
The Beale Factories are the largest of their kind in the British Empire and are under the direction of one of the
world’s greatest experts, Major George D. Rose.
FROM FACTORY TO FAMILY.
Please let us send you a catalogue and circulars. Easiest terms and best conditions in the trade.
Kalophones, Gramophones, Records, Violins, Musical Instruments of all kinds and sheet music.
CATALOGUES FREE BY POST.
BEALE & COMPANY LIMITED
Head Office and Factories: TRAFALGAR, NELSON and COLLINS STREETS, ANNAN DALE, N.S.W.
City Showrooms: 136 - 136 b LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY, opposite Mark Foy’s.
George Street, Bathurst
70 Hunter Street, Newcastle
Yass Street, Young
Wagga
Lismore
Orange
131 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.
Argent Street, Broken Hill
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
Townsville
Rockhampton
Maryborough
Cairns
Mackay
839 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
273 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.


‘The PAQUIN”
OF SYDNEY.
FOR ORIGINALITY
OF STYLE.
Off
Ladies' Tailor & Costumier
(Late David Jones),
OCEAN HOUSE,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY,
IF CONSTIPATED TAKE
“CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.”
Delicious “regulator” for stomach,
liver and bowels, for mamma,
daddy and children.
If you are headachy, constipated, bilious,
or if the stomach is disordered and you want
to enjoy the nicest liver and bowel cleansing
you ever experienced, take a tablespoonful
of “California Syrup of Figs” to-night and
in the morning all the constipation poison,
bile and clogged-up waste will gently move
out of the system without griping, and you
will feel splendid.
Every member of the family should use this
fruit laxative as occasion demands. It is
just as effective for grandpa as it is for baby.
It simply cannot injure. Even cross, sick,
feverish children just love its pleasant taste
and mothers can rest easy after giving it,
because it never fails to effect a good “inside
cleansing.”
For thirty years “California Syrup of
Figs” has been recommended by physicians
as the ideal stomach, liver and bowel
cleanser. Millions of families who are well
informed use nothing else.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califor-
nia Syrup of Figs,” which has full directions
for babies, children of all ages and for grown-
ups plainly printed on the bottle. Beware
of counterfeits sold here. Get the genuine,
made by “California Fig Syrup Company.”
Refuse any other kind with contempt. “Cali-
fornia Syrup of Figs” is sold by all leading
chemists, 1/li and 1/9.
Edison says on account of the increasing- cost of
wood all furniture is destined to be of steel. “Since
the steel for a given piece of furniture costs only
one-fifth as much as the wood. Steel furniture is
light, because only a little steel is required and it can
be polished in perfect imitation of mahogany, walnut,
or oak. Babies in the next generation will sit on
steel high chairs and eat from steel tables."
Phillips Ormonde & Co., 17 Queen St., Melbourne.*
BRAND
STUHR.
CAVIARE
FILLETED ANCHOVIES
(in Brine).
ANCHOVY PASTE.
Sold by all High-Class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR * CO., Hamburg-
Indents through European Exporters only.
“Jeroi”: Writing of N. Coast (N.S.W.)
water vines, “Gil Gunnia” (B. 5/3/’l4) says the
young vine is best. Have had a good many drinks
from water vines, and always found that the stouter
the vine the bigger the drink, and just as good.
Know three kinds of water vine on N.C.—wild grape
(the best), blood vine and another that I have no name
for. It's not much good, anyway. Have taken more
water than I could drink from three feet of blood
vine. These vegetables grow to about six inches
thickness. Have heard them blamed for poisoning
cattle, but I don’t believe the yarn. But for water
properties I have had as good from the Maoriland
water vine (black lawyer).
The latest lunacy to be imported into
Maoriland is heather frae Scotlund. It has been
planted in the wild country around the volcanoes
Tongariro and Ruapehu, and is reported to be growing
just about as furiously as every other imported weed.
Already a number of wild sportsmen are beginning
to yell loudly for grouse, the shootable bird that
flourishes in heather. When the Scawtch shrub starts
to and leaps all over the Borrowing Isles,
there will he a different variety of yell. It will be
for the importation of some kind of wild animal
that lives oh heather. The lion and the tiger,
together with most of the other animals of the Ark,
will be dragged to Maoriland eventually.
* * *, *
“Thode F.”: Re “Q.1.8.’5” query as to the
making of jerked meat (B. 2/4/’l4). The late
R. L. Moore, manager of Angledool station, on the
Narran, for nearly 40 years, speaking of his jackeroo
times on the Paroo, told the writer that in the days
ol the cattle slump it was more profitable to send
the tallow packed in the hides than travel the beasts
to market. Apparently the lean meat was sun-dried, as
he spoke of the great number of brown hawks that
swooped at the strips fastened on lines.- The black
boys used to dip two-thirds of a raw strip in the
tallow-melting vats and throw it high from the
end of a pointed stick, to be grabbed at in mid-air
by the hawks. They dropped it with a shriek as
their talons closed on the sizzling part. Wonder
whether Joe Cook or Andy Fisher will evolve some-
thing as effective to make the ’Murkan eagle leggo
our meat ?
Nuki” : Te Renata, of Waimahana, went
down to Auckland recently and returned to the
kainga with a watch. He consulted it on an average
once in 20 seconds, but the base rumor was circu-
lated that Renata didn’t know how to read the
time. Of course, our local humorist got hold of
the yarn, and when he met his nut-colored brother
at the store the proceedings went off like this:
“Hallo, Renata, what’s the time?” Renata gazed
fixedly at the timepiece. “Half-past,” he said
cautiously. “Half-past what?” Renata gazed again.
“JMo, trenny to,” he corrected. “Well, 20 to what?”
A pause, while Renata had another bad 10 seconds
with his latest purchase. “Taihoa,” he said
guardedly, “nine minutes.” “But that’s no use,
Renata. Nine minutes—what else?” Renata closed
the watch case with a furious click. “Ko to town,”
he shouted, “an’ puy a plurry watch yourself!”
“Bullaganang”: Peter was an outlaw,
lie was a nigger- with a knowledge of white men’s
ways, who had gone with the warrigals, and was up
to any mischief, from spearing a lone white to kill-
ing and eating station cattle. Certain N. Territory
stations were in mortal fear of Peter. One evening
a trusty nig came up and told the boss, “By Gripes,
boss, Peter been come.” The boss passed out a Snider
and a few cartridges. “You savvy?” he said,
lominy grinned and went off. Some time afterwards
there was a shot fired, and later on Tommy brought
the rifle back. “How is Peter?” said the boss.
“Peter dead,” said Tommy. “Well,” ordered the
boss; “you put him in river for the alligators first
thing to-morrow.” Early next morning Tommy came ’
up a queer expression on his face. “Did you
put him in the river?” asked the boss. “Yowi,”
replied Tommy, “by Cripes, boss, me been makem
mistake. That pheller not Peter.”
A SUITABLE CALLING.
"What business are you going to put your son to, Brown?”
"Well, haven't decided yet, but judging by the hours he keeps I should say he was
naturally cut out for a milkman .”
STRATEGY.
“I say, old chap , I'm in shocking luck. I want money badly, and haven't the least idea
where I can get it."
"Well, I'm glad to hear that. I thought perhaps you had an idea you could borrow
from me!"
“Stone”: Met in the bush, the other day, a
peculiar-looking reptile. It was apparently a cross
between an iguana and a frill lizard. It was about
2ft. 6in. in length, and four or five inches in the beam,
and had the tapered body and tail, with the dark and
yellow markings of the “go.” The head was that of
the frill lizard, with an extraordinary large, yellow-
lined mouth and only half a frill, and that under
the chin, like the throat-weed of an ancient Hayseed.
A new-ehum from Gawkshire, who is a mountain of
information, was with me at the time, and he
could throw no light on the subject. He said that
he had never even heard of the bally thing, so I
consider it must be an entirely new thing. I’ve
named it the frillana.
“Oimai”: Recent legends of homing cats
and dogs in The Bulletin move me to tell of
Bushi’s cockatoo, who once dwelt in a village on the
banks of the Old Swanee (or something like that)
River in Papua. He was very popular with the
miners and traders of the Yodda, and whenever Bushi
accepted a retainer to paddle a storekeeper’s boat up
the river, Bauwa always went as pilot. His job was to run
up and down the boat-awning when a stiff rapid was
reached, and yell “Bara!” (paddle) “Bara, you blue-
stone black blanks.” His master came to an un-
timely end and Bauwa was sold into slavery by an
ungrateful community. His new master, a Govern-
ment official, took him 40 miles away as the crow very
rarely flies. A week later he was reported as back at his
old job of pilot, with his expletive powers much
strengthened by his holiday. It may be as well to
say that any homing instinct illustrated in this tale
should be credited to the nigger who travelled 40
miles and back, across country, to steal the bartered
fowl and restore him to the bosom of his family.
“Gouger”: Some five years ago we were
sitting round the fires at the “old town,” Lightning
Ridge, when from a distant camp came the cry,
“Horse down a shaft.” The miners’ horses often
toppled down the scattered shafts, though whether
with the idea of doing a bit of opal-gouging on their
own, or of merely committing suicide, I don’t know.
Soon a motley crowd of 61 men, various dogs, many
opinions, some lanterns, certain slush lamps and a
huge rope scrambled along to the orifice where the
animal was wedged 20ft. down. “Sailor” climbed
down and managed to knot the rope around the
horse’s belly. Before he could climb out, some fool
yelled, “Every man on the rope.” Now the sudden
and combined strength of 59 men, lugging at a rope
which is sawing against hard rock is pretty con-
siderable. The rope parted. One end caught
“Sailor,” who was almost out of the shaft, across
the neck and sent him flying down on to the un-
fortunate horse. The last man on the rope’s end
followed his heels down a hidden shaft behind him,
while 58 men sat down hard and sudden. Only one
man stood up. He was the usual loafer, who had not
been pulling at all. When the excitement calmed a
bit, and the 59th man was saved, and the 61st man
had ceased loafing, we hauled the 60th man
(“Sailor”) from the shaft. Save for the loss of a
penn’orth of skin he was none the worse, though
to hear him talk you’d have thought he was dead. It
was then found that the horse was defunct. Our good
intentions had pulled the rope almost through him.
With a dismal feeling of failure we filled in the
shaft.
“John P.”: The necessity of culling the
various herds of deer in Maoriland has been respon-
sible for introducing a new and well-paid profession.
A number of expert shots have taken up this work
and there’s more of it than they can do. The herds
in different parts are being carefully culled of all
weedy animals and stags with malformed heads. In
the Otago district alone over 700 creatures were taken
out this season. The cullers also report on • the
herds generally, and on the number of rifles the
country will carry. Anyone mad on deer-stalking,
who is a good rifle shot and fond of an outdoor life,
would find the new profession an ideal one.
PARTICULARS WANTED.
THE YOUNGSTER: “’Ow did yer get the red
marks on yer nose, Mr. Stiggs?”
REV. STIGGS: “ Glasses, my boy!”
THE YOUNGSTER: “Glasses of what?”
CIGARETTE CARDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He believed the craze for the collection of cigar-
ette cards and other emblems had more to do with
the early assumption of the cigarette-smoking habit
by juveniles than anything else. They all knew, he
said, what a hold this craze got upon many small
children. They had seen them stick people up in the
street and ask for cards. —Speech before the Confer-
ence of Parents and Citizens’ Associations.
“Got a cigarette card, Mister?’’
Down the quiet of the street
1 beheld the dark words blister
Moral purpose with their heat.
'Twas a child of ten who spoke them
To a youth of twenty-one,
And my fancy seemed to yoke them
To a hell on earth begun.
Yes, I saw the wicked glitter
In the urchin’s waiting eyes,
And I brooded on the bitter
Days that would for him arise.
Goaded by his fatal passion—
’Twas the cards that did the trick —
I beheld the pale, green fashion
In which smoking made him sick.
I beheld him swiftly growing
Into manhood tall and fair,
Blowing, blowing, always blowing
Cigarette smoke on the air;
And I marked the changing season
When his sins were purple ripe,
And, in awful scorn of reason,
He began to smoke a pipe.
Farther down the track I watched him.
Counted every match he lit —
No kind angel came and snatched him
From the burning of the pit.
Oh, his sins were like the ocean!
T observed him from afar,
When he got his first promotion,
Waving wide a cheap cigar.
Thus to early degradation,
Sin and shame and moral blight,
Go the children of the nation
Keeping various weeds alight.
Oh, my heart is full of sorrow !
On my waistcoat drops a tear
When I think of the to-morrow
Of our infants small and dear.
“Got a cigarette card, Mister?”
Oh, the anguish and the pain
Of those words that scorch and blister
When I hear their sound again!
Well I know that Hell is stoking
Her red furnace hotter yet
For the urchin who is smoking
His first, sad, sick cigarette.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


WATSONS
4/ctqJ^^
fij
m*
n
fyCl/iAOTIS
Very
fin
in*
«- - ls Oj/c/} r/ /,
Quality Guara^'
y° U c C
“The Lancet”
THE LEADING MEDICAL JOURNAL
SAYS:—
“WATSON’S No. 10 WHISKY
T " is honestly described on the
Label, the quality is certainly ex-
cellent and the mellow and delicate
flavour of Malt indicates * Maturing
by Age.”
„xrs
yf/zkuyju
| Very
Fine
, _ J iciinmj
Quality Guarantee
OOUcc
scort*|


L *
C ■
/ -®P
r
r
' *o ‘
For Your Holiday Prints
Use “Nepera” Paper.
No darkroom is required in the use of
“Nepera” paper, and it is absolutely the
best for amateurs,
Get some to-day —you will appreciate
the change.
“Nepera” paper prints
splendidly from any class of
negative, giving fine blacks
and whites with wonder-
fully even gradation.
“Nepera” postcards are sold
in packets of 18, with
masks, at 1/3, and are
obtainable from all Kodak
dealers or direct from us.
Kodak £5OO
Happy Moments
Competition
Closes
30th June, 1914
First PrizeflOO
2S Prizes for
Beginners only.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 370 George Street.
MELBOURNE: "The Block.” 284 Collins Street
ADELAIDE: 37 Bundle Street.
BRISBANE: 250-252 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA : Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON: Denham Street.
BROKEN HILL: 346 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: 6 Mercer Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. : 3 Lome Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: 76 Stuart Street.
THE INSUFFICIENT ARMY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The little side-drums were hammering at the
walls of the big buildings, splintering echoes
from them, and the brasses were chanting a
song that was never to be forgotten after
that day, and the reeds were singing a
melody that, from the beginning of things,
was fated to be the last melody some men
would hear.
Heeds and brasses and drums—they went
along the street, knowing well that Tragedy
marched to the music.
Someone said: “Who are they?”
And someone said: “The Last Regiment!”
To the lilt of the band the Regiment
swung along. In column of fours the men
marched, but not with the shouldered arms
that look so nice on the moving pictures.
They carried their rifles at the trail, and the
bulging bandoliers evidenced that they were
“out for keeps.”
The civilian understands that somewhere
in the books it is written that shoulder
should touch shoulder on the march, but on
that drab, fateful day it was not so much
the touching shoulder that counted as the
steady wrist that could hold the rifle to its
purpose, and the arm that could put the
bayonet to its destined end.
Someone said: “Where are they going?”
And someone said : “Out!”
On balconies women were holding up little
babies and trying to show them the men who
were marching down the desolated street.
A woman asked: “Who are they?”
And someone replied: “The Last Regi-
ment !”
So they swung along, with the field-service
helmet cocked rakishly over the right eye,
because the marksman has an almost finicky
fondness for his right eye, and doesn’t like
even the sun to look at it. And the officers
walked easily alongside, because they knew,
they could trust the Regiment, and that
they were all booked for the same terminus.
And someone asked: “Who are they?”
And someone replied: “The Last Regi-
ment !”
So in the gloaming of that rainy, wintry,
shot-driven day they swung along in the
plain, drab uniform of the Australian infan-
try, and every man knew that he could never
come back, and every man and woman who
were shouting “GoD-speed” to the Regiment
knew that not one man could ever come
back, and every man who carried the trailed
rifle knew that all the people knew that he
could never come back.
And in the distracted crowd again some-
one asked: “Who are they?”
And again someone replied: “The Last
Regiment!”
And the little side-drums were still ham-
mering. .. .hammering. But they didn’t
seem to be despondent.
P. T. FREEMAN.
The Excessive Cost of Justice.
The writer got involved in an Equity suit
the other day, and one effect of the experi-
ence was to sheet home to him the fact that
in Australia, as elsewhere, the free born
citizen has a particularly thin chance of
getting justice unless he has sufficient money
to buy it. Consider the tremendous proce-
dure in this jurisdiction. The person who
considers that he has been wronged has first
to find out from a barrister, through a soli-
citor, whether he has been legally wronged.
If the aggrieved one is able to pay the bar-
rister’s fee, the latter directs his attention to
the matter, and in due course supplies his
opinion and collects the money. If the bar-
rister’s opinion is favorable, and the litigant
is solvent, the trouble begins forthwith. In
the jargon of the profession, the plain-
tiff files his Statement of Claim. Unname-
able perils surround this ceremony. The
selection of an unskilful or reckless claim-
drawer may mean ruin. Amidst the tense,
strained atmosphere that one notices when
the favorite is staggering home a winner by
a short head the claim is drawn. Later it is
filed—this being the job of the solicitor.
Three weeks pass. The assailed party
weighs in with his Statement of Defence.
The Statement of Defence may be either a
wild denial of every single allegation made
by the plaintiff—a denial that the plaintiff
has any cause of action ; that he ever had
any cause of action anywhere, at any time,
against any human being on earth; a
denial that he is sober, or alive, or dead, or
anything else —or it may take the form of a
cross-claim, or it may raise some issue that
was not anticipated by the plaintiff’s legal
advisers. In either of the two latter events
the entire cavalcade of litigants retraces its
steps and starts all over again. The State-
ment of Claim is amended. Another month
drifts by. The defendants reply to the
altered claim. If both parties are lucky
they will have won by this time to a point
where there is some likelihood of their getting
to actual business. A conference ensues.
Have you ever attended a legal conference,
gentle reader? It is a highly impressive
occurrence. There are gathered together the
K.C., his juniors, the solicitor, his expert
on the matter in hand, and, crouching worm-
like in a corner, the litigant. The moment
is a solemn one for all concerned —and more
particularly for the litigant—since, in the
event of both parties deciding to proceed,
briefs must presently be delivered. For many
a luckless person the deliverance of briefs
has represented the birth of insolvency. Up
to this stage, Costs have been a mere baga-
telle. The writer, happening to be a bar-
rister, and being represented, furthermore,
by friends, got so far by the outlay of a
paltry £lOO. Had he been a layman the
figure would have been at least £2OO. As a
matter of fact, he got no farther. At this
absorbing point a settlement ensued which
was satisfactory to all parties, and the en-
tire unpleasantness vanished as though, it
had never been. TTad it passed the brief-
delivering stage and got into Court, one side
or the other would have had to pay ulti-
mately for three K.O.’s, at so much down
apiece, and 25 guineas a day ; for a propor-
tionate number of juniors at so much down,
and so much per day ; and for the services,
during a period of about six months, of two
firms of solicitors —say, at a moderate figure,
£2500. How many people can afford to put
up a sum like that in defence of what they
consider to be their rights? Probably not
one in 500. The obvious moral is that the
procedure in Equity needs simplifying. It is
too vast a subject to be tackled casually at
the tail-end of a newspaper article. The
only point which is desired to be stressed
here is that Equity litigation is exclusively
a pastime for the more or less affluent, under
existing, conditions. This is an anomaly in a
State which claims to be democratic. It
is surely a hopeless condition of affairs when
justice can only be bought at a price which
about 98 per cent, of the populace are
unable to pay.
A Voice from South America.
“Bad Australian” to his countrymen:—
What's the matter with Australia that we don’t
hear anything about her military aviation corps, or
a world-beater on his own private ’plane?
This over-rated country (Argentina) and its people
are a one-horse proposition compared to Australia,
but they own a nice little bunch of warliawks, and
at the present moment the whole population is
shrieking “Viva” over the highest flier of them all,
engineer George Newberry* who has just raked in
the world’s record for altitude on his Morane-Saulnier
monoplane, Le Rhone motor, 100 kilos.
Newberry is the pioneer of Argentine aviation,
and has done some good work in this country, ter-
minating in the world’s record. He is also a most
excellent all-round athlete.
And it happened in this way:—
A few months ago a Chilian top-notcher named
Figueroa made an attempt to fly across the Andes,
from Santa Rosa do Los Andes, on the Chilian side,
to this hamlet (Mendoza), a distance of 240 kilo-
metres, following the course of the Transandjne Rail-
way.
The altitude of the Pass is 13,000 ft., so it was a
fairly tough proposition. Figueroa camped at the
summit for about a week, studying the winds, or,
rather, whirlwinds, as the air currents are very
much broken up by the surrounding peaks, some of
which are 4000 ft. or 5000 ft. higher than the pass.
He found that there was a fairly-calm time for
an hour or two in the early morning, and, after a
few trials over the city of Santa Rosa de Los Andes
he lit out for the summit. But, before he had
passed the 30-kilometer mark, he struck several
“holes” in the air, the last being a regular abyss.
He dropped like a shot pigeon, but his luck stuck to
him and he wasn’t irreparably damaged. 11 is
friends were not satisfied. Now he is awaiting the
arrival of the most up-to-date European machine that
dollars can buy. This was ordered by cable, and in
the meantime the Chilian Government (which is solid
on aviation) offers a whole cartload of legal tender
to the first Chilian aviator, military or civilian, who
gets across to Mendoza on his machine. Newberry
was in Europe when this occurred, so he had some-
thing special built under his own supervision, with
the idea of invading Chile before Figueroa got his
second wind. It was in making a trial with his new
’plane over the aviation grounds at El Palomar,
Buenos Aires, that he got away with the world’s
record. He did not propose to break anv record
when he started, but things panned out so well that
he kept going until he felt the absolute need of the
oxygen which he had left below, otherwise it is
quite possible he would have been climbing yet.
In any case he reached an altitude of 6200 metres,
and his friends now reckon that the Transandine
flight from Mendoza is a sure thing for Argentina.
But this scribe “dunno.” He has a very lntinpu
knowledge of the uncertain nature of the wmus
and air currents around the summit of the Ana
in these latitudes. The man who flies across t
Andes will have to do it at an altitude of 16,0001 -
or 17,000 ft., otherwise he is liable to strike a sn g
rounding a corner of one of the great peaks on n a
line of flight. .
Newberry has to Btudy the local conditions y
boiling his billy on the summit for a week or t •
and by that time Figueroa may have his ne
machine ready. In that case it is about even betti g
as to who gets there first. But perhaps the odorir -
ous old-man condor who sits in the seat of the exa
may be the only one in it at the finish. The con
is a bird the size of a ferry-boat, and it dwells P
among the Higher Criticism and eats horses.
“B.” writes about an English marriage
which is attracting quite a pile of attention .
Re George Cornwallis-West, second hsuband and
divorce of Lady Randolph Churchill, and the ne
(1914) husband of Mrs. Pat Campbell, actress. When
Lady Randolph, widow, decided to claim anu
accept the hand of the debonair George
W„ all London Society knew from a glance
at the Society almanacs that Lady Randolpn
was taking on a proposition some months the
junior of her illustrious son, the present First Lora Ol
the Admiralty. Now the cruel cable tells us that
after 13 years of legalised attachment George had
been so careless in handing out the things known as
conjugal rights that the lady was granted a divorce.
And, to top it all, comes the pronouncement that on
the very day the decree nisi became absolute George
quietly took unto himself as wife Mrs. Pat Campbell-
Mrs. Campbell is a glorious actress; though, like
most of us, she is now busy sparring, against that
insidious complaint known as “years.” She is- or
was, in her prime—-very like the equivalent of an
English Bernhardt —all soul and no calves.
You perhaps remember the Divine Sarah’* recep-
tion in Sydney, years ago, when, exposing a pair
of tan-colored spindle-shanks, she tripped off the
boat in the rain, making her way to the dais where
the late Dan O’Connor, then Postmaster-General, was
waiting officially to greet her as. “the greatest and
most illustrious bony-fidy riprisintitive of La Belly
Frongshay that has ivcr set foot on these terresthrial
shores.”
The late Pat Campbell was a dashing, dare-devil
officer, the kind of man who didn’t care a damn.
Handsome, fascinating and a real good sort, he was
out for death or glory. Well, the little nickel-plated
Boer bullet got him in the right place. His remains
were interred in the 0.R.C., near Kimberley. He
lived like a philosopher, and went to hi* death like
a sportsman.
Having got my military discharge in Pretoria, I
returned to London, and one murky, pitiless morn-
ing toward the end of 1902 I was told off by W. J.
Evans, editor of the Evening News, to see Mrs.
George Cornwallis-West at her town house just off
Piccadilly. My instructions were to inquire why a
certain monthly publication, of which she was
founder, proprietress and editress, had ceased to
exist. The publication was being issued to “sub-
scribers only” at £2 2s. per copy. It was rather
a cheeky job, but the editor knew that a quarter-
column from the again newly-wedded lady would be
worth reading. I was ushered into the presence by a
butler about 10.30 a.m. Mrs. Cornwallis-West, then
anything between 49 and 55, swept in, wearing a
dressing-gown. Looking all her years, she said, with
the Jerome lisp, that she really could not, under-
stand what her private affairs had to do with the
public. “Thstill,” y she continued, “if it ith nethethy
to thay thso, the failure of my production muthst be
attributed to want of proper appreciation.”
Just about this time George Cornwallis-West —
slim, fair and perfectly groomed and tailored —came
down to breakfast. He struck me as being a very
nice young man, who, in taking his matrimonial
plunge, missed the ’bus just by one generation. This
second dive is a bit better; though she can give
him—well, I should bet evens on 12 years ; or, take
five to four, 16. And no longer is the First Lera sf
the Admiralty supposed to call him “Father” 1


m
mm
"S " , , S* *V
' ■*' * J
' < *
■
,-'*• ..i.T
' '
m*
,
m t m
Mi • felflSWß
k's':::."'. «•■'■
LWjK>%
-> ’ Smsm
i
w - - ?- - ~
■
: ,£ ■- v£_
. -:,.« . ■ ' - .
■NH
8
m 3
£ '%£
'mM
ps2".
'*&■
9*>*.
m*
masm
“JUST THE BRANDY I WANTED !**
T jLT^ pile ° f buildin^s above is the famous Chateau Tanunda, South Australia, the capacity of which is 1 Rno onn
wine and brandy—where more than half the total stock of brandy in the Commonwealth is matured— aUu 4nnr?l 4
Brandy is produced from freshly-picked grapes-where the Commonwealth Excise S t tar
Government Seal on each bottle, which is a guarantee of the purity and maturity of the spTrit P 186 the placmg of the
Chateau^Tanumla^Brandy 6 * *° SUarantee ° f purity ° r maturity ’ and you ay over a sbillia S a b °ttle more in duty alone than
Delightful as a beverage—you can taste the grapes in Chateau Tanunda Three Star Brandy.
“SINCE *B9 FROM PURE GRAPE WINE.**
KEEP A BOTTLE IN THE HOUSE. Obtainable at all Hotels and Stores throughout Australia.


Australia’s Great Watch House!
AUNDERS
SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER'
£3lO/-
Lady’s Solid »old, Improved
H untinT, Keyless WATCH,
j-plate, full jew-
elled Lever move-
ment, patent, ad-
justed balance,
accurate, reliable,
£3/10/- Higher
grade, £4.
£4
mm
Latest
Style
Silk
Ribbon
Guard,
9ct.
Gold
Mounts
and Shield,
Single,
22/6.
Double,
£2.
8/6
Lady’s Black, Open Face
Keyless WATCH, full jewelled,
dust and waterproof cases, ac-
curate, reliable, 8/6.
Higher grades, 10/-, 12/6,
15/-, 20/-, 25/-
lOj-
Gent.’s Patent, 10 years' guaranteed, Gold
Cased, Hunting, Keyless WALTHAM
WATCH, full jewelled, compensation bal-
ance, dust and waterproof cases. Accur-
ate, reliable, 55/- 20 years’ guaran-
teed, £4/4/- Solid Gold, £6/1.0/-,
£7/10/-, up to £3O.
55|-
60/-
The PRACTICAL WATCHMAKER.
The House famed all over Australasia for
good Timekeepers, Accurate and Reliable.
WRITE FOR FREE WATCH BOOKLET.
SS^SSSSS
v:
r*
H
&
ORDER
BY MAID.
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
£5.
Lady’s Solid Gold, Patent' Expanding ; WRISTLET
WATCH, full jewelled, reliable movement Accurate.
Hiaher Grade, £5/10 to/XU/-
12|6
151-
Gent.’s Nickel, Open Face, Keyless
LEVER, full jewelled, patent, _ adjusted
balance, lion-magnetic time spring, dust
and waterproof cases, 12/6, 157-
Higher Grade, 20/-, 25/- Guaranteed.
20/-
25|-
40 1-
Lady’s Gold, Open Face Key-
less WATCH, fancy dial, full
jewelled, adjusted balance, ac-
curate, reliable, £2.
Higher grades, £2/10/-
£3/10/-
50|-
■Wii
Mm
mmm l
Gent.’s Solid Nickel Silver, Iluntiiig, Key-
less LEVER WATOII, high-grade move-
ment, engine-turned cases, non-magnetie
full jewelled, dust and waterproof eases,
25/- Higher Grade, 30/- Solid Sil-
ver, 30/-, 35/- Extra jewelled, 40/-,
50/-, 60/-, up to £5.
25/-
30 1-
25|-
m
30|-
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless LEVER WATCH, 4-
plate, patent, adjusted move-
ment, 25/-. 30/-. Higher
grades, 35/-, 40/-, 50/-,
60/-
107-
Lady’s Wristlet
WATCH.
LADY’S
WRISTLET
WATCH,
Oxidised
Case,
reliable
movement,
Morocco
or other
Leather
Straps,
10/-,
12/<>,
15/-,
20/
807-817 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HARRY LAUDER
to the Very Life.
&
Hear Harry Lauder in your own home, especially if you
cannot go to one of the large cities during his visit, to
Australia.
Harry Lauder —mind you—is one of the highest-salaried
entertainers in the world, and he will step into your home
with all the leading successes he has ever sung, right
down to his latest, and sing them to you with every ounce
of the fire and humor he treats London audiences—-his
laugh on the records is a palpitating double of the living
Lauder chuckle.
Go hear these records at the nearest Edison dealer.
There are 4S in all. including different numbers of the
Edison Bine Amfoerol,
Wax Amberol,
and Standard Records.
TITLE.
Aye Waken O
Blarney Stone, The.. ..
Bonnie Lizzie Lindsay
Bounding Sea, The
Breakfast in Bed
Callaghan
Fou the Noo
Good-Bye Till We Meet Attain
Hey Donal!
He Was Very Kind To Me. .
I Love a Lassie
I Wish I Had Someone to Love Me
Inverary . . ■ • ••
It’s Nice When You Love a Wee Lassie . .
I’ve Loved Her Ever Since She Was a Baby
Jean McNeil
Just a Wee Deoch and Doris
Just Like Being at Maine
Killiecrankie . . ■ • • •
Kiltie Lads, The
McGregor’s Toast
Mr. John Mackie
Picnic, The
Queen Amang the Heather
Referee, The
Rising Early in the Morning
Roamin’ in the Gleamin'..
Rob Roy Mackintosh
Saftest o’ the Family
Scotch Errand Boy
She’s My Daisy
She’s the Lass For Me
Stop Yer Ticklin’, Jock
That’s the Reason Noo I Wear a Kilt ..
Tober Mory
Wee Hoose ’Mang the Heather
Wedding o’ Sandy Mac Nab
Wedding o' Lanchi' 1 lu '’Oravv
We Parted on the Shore
When I Get Back Again to Bonnie Scotlttr.d
Blue
Amberol.
23017
1821
1820
1819
23059
23003
1817
23073
23022
Wax
Amberol.
12100
1230 i
12080
12119
12401
12415
12070
12360
12342
12363
12387
12359
12288
12260
12386
12339
12065
12362
12372
12132
Wax
Standard.
13759
13743
13741
13783
13758
13918
14081
13784
14070
19173
19177
14080
19174
19179
13757
19175
13742
13785
19176
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only), Dept. 8., 364=372 Kent Street, Sydney.
ASK
m
m
m
m
m
LAMPS
DRAWN TUNGSTEN WIRE
SAVE 15'- IN THE POUND
NO LAMPS TAKE LESS CURRENT


The Bank of Adelaide.
FORTY-EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS TO THE
SHAREHOLDERS.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting herewith, for the information of Share
holders, the Balance-sheet of the Bank, as on 30th March, 1914, also Statements
Profit and Loss Account, and the Reserve Fund on that date. *70167 14 7
The balance to credit of Profit and Loss is .. • • • • ± ‘ u ’ ±0<
which it is proposed to appropriate as follows:
To Reserve Fund (making it £510,000)
To Dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum . • 20,00 U Q Q
leaving a balance of £25,167 14 t
t 0 b An^nterim o Dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum was paid in November last
Since the last Report a Branch has been opened at Moorook; the Piarillia Agemcy ha.
been converted into a Branch; JBligh Branch has been conveited into t - » • »
Agencies have been opened at Karoonda and Ilyde Park. t
The General Annual Meeting will be held in the Board Room, at the Head Office of
the Bank, King William Street, Adelaide, on Wednesday, 6th May, 1914, at 1- noon, at
which the Shareholders will be called upon to elect Two Directors in place of Alexandei
George Downer. Esq., and Arthur Waterhouse, Esq., who retire by rotation. Mr. W atei-
house, who is eligible, offers himself for re-election, but Mr. Downer does not seek re-elec-
tlon ’The Directors regret exceedingly that, owing to the state of his health, Mr. Downer
finds it necessary to vacate his seat at the Board, which occupied since . <~o.
(during the last 14 years as Chairman) with eminent ability and with the greatest advan-
tage to the interests of the Bank, and they place on record their appreciation of the
valuable services he has at all times rendered to the Institution.
The Shareholders will also have to elect Two Auditors for the ensuing year. Ihe
remuneration of the retiring Auditors will have to be voted.
By order of the Board of Directors,
JOHN SHIELS. Manager.
BALANCE-SHEET ON 30th MARCH, 1914.
LIABILITIES.
To Capital paid-up £500,000 0 0
„ Reserve Fund 490,000 0 0
„ Profit and Loss 70,167 14 7
„ Notes in circulation ..
„ Bills in circulation
„ Balances due to other banks..
„ Deposits
~ Interest accrued on Fixed De-
posits and rebate on bills dis-
counted . .
£1,060,167 14 7
12,822 0 0
265,710 10 0
7,993 15 0
4,834,739 7 9
46,607 8 0
£6,228,040 16 4
ASSETS.
By Specie, bullion
and cash balances £533,667 6 2
„ Australian Notes 154,806 10 0
from other banks 79,907 15 11
Bank premises and furniture .. 111,321 10 9
Bills receivable and all other
Advances .. .. • • 3,128,103 14 0
£6,228,040 15 4
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT, from MARCH 31, 1913, to MARCH 30, 1914.
To Reserve Fund as
below . . .. £30,000 0 0
„ Dividend in May,
1913 .. .. 25,000 0 0
„ Dividend in Novem-
ber, 1913 .. 25,000 0 0
£Bo,ooo 0 0
„ Balance .. .. .. .. 70,167 14 7
£150,167 14 7
.. £78,221 17 10
By Balance, March 31, 1913..
Net profit, includ-
ing recoveries and
after making pro-
vision for bad and
doubtful debts, in-
terest accrued on
fixed deposits and
rebate on bills
discounted, and
expenses at head
office and 51
branches, includ-
ing salaries, rents,
etc £76,227 2 7
~ Less Land and
Income Taxes,
£3967 13s. lid.;
Note Taxes, £313
11s. lid. .. 4,281 5 10
71,945 16 9
£150,167 14 7
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance at this date
..£490,000 0 0
£490,000 0 0
By Balance March 31, 1913.. .. £460,000 0 0
„ Transfer from Profit and Loss,
May, 1913 30,000 0 0
£490,000 0 0
JOHN SHIELS, Manager.
C. F. WREFORD, Accountant.
JAMES HARVEY,
H. C. E. MUECKE,
ARTHUR WATERHOUSE,
GEORGE BROOKMAN,
Directors.
We have compared the above Balance-sheet with the Books and Accounts of the Bank of Adelaide for
the year ending March 30, 1914, and certify that it is a correct abstract of the same. We have counted
the cash and examined the bills on hand at the Head Office, the Assets and Liabilities at the Branches other
than London have been taken on the certificates of the Managers and Accountants of the respective
Branches, and those of the London Branch as cabled by the London Manager.
Adelaide, April 17, 1914.
W. L. WARE, F.C.P.A.,
WILLIAM NEILL, F.C.P.A.,
Auditors.
'( 0
rx
-v
S==r~^\*
✓ m==z^3r
FemJngtonrUMC Arms and Ammunition
Appeal to Expert Marksmen
Because the secret of marksmanship
success is confidence. Confidence in
the arm used and the cartridge that
is to give the answer of good or bad
aiming begets confidence in one’s self
—and all of these are essential to
good shooting. Good shots and
those who wish to become good
shots turn to Remington-UMC because
they know that old reliable brand
will do its part —and can give their
thought and attention to correct
aiming.
If you wish to improve your score,
next time you want ammunition
just say to your dealer “Give me
some Remington-UMC” and don’t
take a substitute.
Write to us or our nearest representative for a catalog and
some interesting booklets about shooting and arms and
ammunition in general. Sent free postpaid on request.
Remington Arms—Union Metallic Cartridge Company
299*301 Broadway • . ■ New York, U. S. A.
Australian Representative: D. D. Bryant, P.O. Box 686, Melbourne.
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d.
The Bank of Australasia
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund ( £500,000 is invested in 24 per cent. Consols, the remainder being
£2,000,000
used in the business of the bank)
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter
2,690,000
2,000,000
£0,690,000
Eightieth Annual Report of the Directors of the Bank of Australasia,
With the Accounts for the Half-year to 13th October, 1913.
Presented to the Proprietors at the Annual General Meeting, held on Thursday, 26th March, 1911.
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the proprietors the Balance-sheet as at 13th October last, with the Profit
Account for the half-year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, for British and
Colonial rates and taxes, and for all bad and doubtful debts, the net profit for the Half-year amounted
to £220,976 15s. sd.
To this sum must be added £29,192 3s. 9d. brought forward from the previous Half-year, making
a total of £250,168 19s. 2d., out of which the Directors have declared a dividend for the Half-year
at the rate of 11 per cent, per annum, or £2 16s. per share, and a bonus at the rate of 3 per cent, per
annum, or 12s. per share, together £3 Bs. per share, free of income-tax.
The dividend and bonus, on the present capital of £2,000,000 (the new shares having been fully
paid up), will absorb £170,000, and the Directors have further appropriated £30,000 to the Reserve
Fund, and £20,000 in reduction of the cost of bank premises. There will then remain £30,168 19s. 2d.
to be carried forward to the next Account.
The dividend and bonus will be payable, in London and in the Colonies, on the 27th March.
The premium, £600,000, received on the new shares has been added to the Reserve Fund, which now
stands at £2,690,000. ■ T i- c a
The Directors retiring by rotation are:—The Hon. Sir C. W. Fremantle, K.C.8., Leslie Sanderson,
Esq., and Charles E. Barnett. Esq., who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The proprietors will be asked to approve the election as Directors of Mr. Frederick 1 . C. Livingstone-
Learmonth D 5.0., and the Hon. Michael Hugh Hicks-Beach, M.P., in place of the late Mr. W. R.
Arbuthnot and the late Rt. Hon. Alfred Lyttelton, respectively.
The auditors, Messrs. Wclton. Jones and Co., offer themselves for re-election.
C. W. FREMANTLE, Chairman.
4 Threadnecdle Street, London, 16th March, 1914.
PROFIT ACCOUNT, from APRIL 14, 1913, to OCTOBER 13, 1913,
Undivided profit, April 14, 1913
Less dividend and bonus, October 3, 1913
£165,192 3 9
1-36,000 0 0
Profit for the half-year to October 13, 1913, after deducting rebate on
bills current at balance date ( £12,252 4s. 9d.), and making
£29,192 3 9
provision for all bad and doubtful debts
Less:
I. Charges of Management—
Colonial — ,
Salaries and allowances to the Colonial staff, in-
cluding the superintendent’s department and
. . £399,839 19 8
204 branches and agencies
General expenses, including rent, repairs, stationery,
travelling, etc.
London —
Salaries
General expenses
. . £108,289 0 10
23,874 8 10
11,096 13 2
4,097 11 4
£147,267 14 2
11. *£i| 5 ,602 12s. Id.; London, £16,092 18s. 31,595 10 1
220,976 15 5
Total amount of unappropriated profit
From which deduct —
For transfer to Reserve Fund .. • •
For reduction in cost of bank premises
..£250,168 19 2
£30,000 0 0
20,000 0 0 50,000 0 0
Leaving available for dividend
. . £200,168 19 2
BALANCE-SHEET, OCTOBER 13, 1913.
LIABILITIES.
Dr.
Circulation . . • • • • £168,818 0 0
Deposits . . . . . . • • 18,088,954 12 i
Bills payable, and other liabili-
ties, including provision for con-
tingencies .. •• •• 2,768,848 110
£21,026,620 14 5
Capital ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve fund . . 2,690,000 0 0
Profit account,
undivided bal-
ance .. 200,168 19 2
4,890,168 19 2
£25,916,789 13 7
ASSETS. Cr.
Specie, bullion, Government notes,
and cash balances .. .. £5,552,258 9 10
Loans at call and at short notice . . 1,232,000 0 0
British Government securities . . 834,469 5 6
India and Colonial Governments’
securities and other investments 730,385 8 7
Bills receivable, advances on securi-
ties, and other assets . . . . 17,565,435 7 4
Bank premises in Australia, New
Zealand and London . . . . 2,241 2 4
£25,916,789 13 7
,F, H. BLOGG, Accountant. R. W. JEANS, General Manager.
We have examined the cash and securities in London, and the London books, and have verified the
transfers from the several branches in the Commonwealth and New Zealand, and we beg to report that, in
our opinion, the foregoing is a full and fair balance-sheet of the Bank, and that it exhibits a true and
correct view of the state of the Bank’s affairs as shown by the books. The investments are valued at
market price or under.
London, 13th March, 1914. WELTON, JONES and Co., Auditors.
*
COOKE’S
PATENT
REVERSIBLE
LEVEL
Specially designed with two objects in view:
first, to afford an easy, efficient, and at all
times available means of adjusting the line of
collimation of the telescope to perfect perpen-
dicularity to the vertical axis of the instrument;
and, secondly, to obtain a form of construction
in which elegance and great compactness are
attained and strength and rigidity secured.
Pamphlet describing construction, and on the
adjustment of above on application.
A. P. GREENFIELD & CO. LTD.,
189 Georgs Street, Brisbane,
Sole Australian Agents.
For the Country Horseman
The saddle here illustrated is expressly designed
for country use, for stock riding, etc., and is built
of the best materials throughout. If any of our
friends are requiring such a saddle they will find
this a genuine bargain.
V
It has a hogskin /Seat, a plated bar-tree, extra
long flaps, with points to buckle below. An economi-
cal feature is the skirt, which extends all round
and thus adds years of wear to the saddle by pro-
tecting its interior from the weather. It has a
deep, “sweepy* seat, 4in. kneepads, nickel-plated
iron stirrups, and double buckle leather girth. The
price complete is £3/15/- Mention of Tub
Bulletin when ordering will ensure your having a
leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle will
be forwarded freight paid. It is to be obtained
from J. P. Talty, 383 Sus":x Street, Sydney.
(Health follows the
regular use of
Montserrat
I Lime Juice
Sauce
k\\W
a
c
Of
Storekeepers
all
It makes
you enjoy
your food.
BUNYIP FOREST
DEVIL!
SAVES POUNDS
While CLEARING.
You must clear your land to make money.
Prosperity follows the plough. Big trees,
huge boulders, ugly stumps all give way to
the “BUNYIP” FOREST DEVIL, that roots
them out as though they were weeds. Simple
to work, economical and durable. Write:—
John Cooper S Sons,
287-9 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, Victoria.
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everythin" Aus-
tralian. That’s The Lone Hand. “A
marvellous sixpenn’orth !”


THREE CHEERS!!
Haig 8 Haig Scots Whisky
(ESTABLISHED 1679.)
V
Franz Josef Lager Beer
(
Hackerbrau Dark Lager
TRY
DANIEL CRAWFORD’S
DANIEL CRAWFORD’S
SCOTCH WHISKY.
THE CONNOISSEUR’S FAVORITE.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“The Listener at the Keyhole” supplies a
confidential report:—
The apparent causes of Premier Holman’s trouble
with the N.S.W. Labor Caucus were his swelled
head and the vagaries of the last batch of Labor
nominees sent to the Council by the Labor Govern-
ment. Neither Caucus nor P.jj.L. had any hand in
appointing those gentry, and when they saw them
consistently voting against Labor measures they con-
cluded that the Ministry was a bad selector of Legis-
lative Councillors, and determined it should not be
allowed to make a similar ass of itself again. But
for his swelled head Holman would probably have
agreed, but for a long while he has chafed under
the restraint of caucus and Political Labor League
Conference. William Arthur has a profound con-
viction that he and his personality alone were re-
sponsible for the downfall of Wade. His view is that
on his return from England he found the party in a
most disgraceful state, and quite unfit to visit the
constituencies. In fact, it was hardly fit to visit an
ash-heap. So he washed its face, cleaned its shoes,
put on a clean pinnjq and, combing its hair nicely,
took it round to see the constituencies looking quite
respectable. The constituencies fell on its neck and
loaded it with gifts of power and sweets of office.
And then William Arthur marched it home again, and
hoped it would always remember how much it owed
him, and pointed out that it should be very grate-
ful and obedient. And the party was quite prepared to
be these things till William Arthur, in his arrogance,
put both feet through the Labor programme and
finally proposed to repeat the unfortunate blunder
by appointing more men like barrister Brown and
Allen T ivlor to the Council. Then it kicked. It
kicked so high that its boots wrecked the ceiling.
Federal Minister Glynn proposes to finish
the railway from Port Augusta to Darwin,
thus making a Federal line across the con-
tinent with a Federal port at each end; to
connect it with Queensland on one side and
Westralia on the other ; and to do some harbor
improvements in the Territory. Railway-
authorities reckon that, with the easy gradi-
ents and the fact that there will be no land
resumptions to pay for. the whole big job
can be done for £12,000,000. And that is
just about as much as the present N.S.W.
loan expenditure for 16 months. So it doesn't
look so very amazing a “problem,” after all.
The N.S.W. Attorney-General, who isn’t a
very celebrated lawyer at best, has issued a
further ukase that “laborers, artificers and
workmen” need not put the twopenny stamp
on a receipt for £2 worth of wages. This is
an heroic effort to exempt the class from
which the Government draws most of its
support. But the new law says baldly that
every receipt for £2 or more must be stamped,
so, despite Hall’s pronouncement, there is
room for a lot of litigation. Even if the
opinion holds good it isn’t much to the Gov-
ernment's credit. When a wharf-laborer who
has earned £9 doesn’t pay the twopenny-
tax, while a clerk who has earned 455. must
do so, the tiling is a very lopsided sort of
justice, and a very capsized or tipped-up
species of equity.
THE OLD OPPORTUNIST.
He admitted that Australia’s Arbitration tribunals
were busy with troubles affecting industry in the pre-
vailing good times. It was impossible to conjecture
what might happen in bad times, but the leadership
of both sides was good.— George Reid, in England.
THE HIGH COMMISSIONER: “ You are both
fine fellows.” (Aside.) “There’s no teding
which’ll be in power when the time comes
to renew- my appointment.”
A curious streak of hypocrisy was that
upholding of the hands (also both feet) in
horror by the English Tory press over the
reported “conspiracy” to move troops to
Belfast and disarm the inhabitants. A cer-
tain crowd in a certain corner of Ulster
declares publicly that it in illegal possession
of guns, and that, in a certain contingency,
it will illegally shoot with them. Why the
proposed confiscation of the unlawful gun
should be called “conspiracy” and other wild
names passes understanding, but the eastern
scrap of Ulster has a vocabulary and a logic
of its own.
THE PIPES OF PAN.
(Up-to-date version.)
That stormy combination, the Industrial
Workers, of the World, has threatened to
paralyse the United States with “the great-
est strike in history” if war really breaks out
with Mexico (it seems to have broken out),
and “to prevent strife at all costs.” The
annoying thing is that, if it succeeds in its
peaceful intentions, a Mexican army may loot
New York. Even peace can be carried too
far.
HAUNTED!
In Dr. Jensen’s opinion the land should be sub-
divided into hundred-square-mile lots, with stricter
stocking conditions.
REFUGEE SETTLER (from Southern State):
“ Damn! You here, too!!”
The Sydney Worker explains the inward-
ness of the row between Premier Holman
and Speaker Meagher in the N.S.W. Labor
caucus in this wise: (1) Holman thinks he
is leader of the Labor party; (2) the party
has no leaders ; (3) the party has got beyond
the stage at which leaders are required. The
theory is beautiful, but it is to be hoped that
when some foreign enemy comes this way
with a desire to wreck the White Australia
policy and to hang the Trades Hall as high
as Hainan, the defence of the country isn’t
run on these lines.
“The Old Soldiet” :
This is the second time in history that the
United States has been in trouble about a salute.
Also, there was a civil war raging on the other
occasion, as on this. The only difference was that
the United States was the warring party and not the
other side. During the hostile armed correspondence
between North and South the West India mail
steamer Trent was stopped in the Atlantic, and two
passengers—who were really Confederate agents—■
were extracted from the recesses of the hold. There
was a tremendous diplomatic row, and it was thought
at first that Washington wanted to provoke a war
with Britain. Furious postcards were exchanged.
A British cruiser was ordered to take a look at the
east coast of the U.S. and see if it was being put in
a state of defence. The first place to be visited was
the fort on Cape Henry, at the entrance of Chesa-
peake Bay. An officer was sent on shore to intimate
that the ship was going to salute Old Glory. The Yankee
gunner laughed a dreary laugh like the noise of a
lost soul with false teeth, and said: “Well, you can fire
your salute if you like, but I haven’t a gun mounted
in the fort to answer it,” and he showed that he
hadn’t. Whereat the cruiser went back contented.
As regards the present disturbance it is quite feasible
to assume that Huerta didn’t salute the U.S. flag,
and so save the worry and expense of having Mexico’s
ports blockaded and its property ruined, for the
simple reason that invasion by the hated Yank suited
him. His position was none too strong. His over-
throw at the hands of Carranza was on the cards.
President Wilson’s action may yet force Carranza to
make common cause with him. At all events, that
hefty ruffian can hardly join the Yankees against
him. When the U.S. is finished with —if it ever is—
Carranza will be a much simpler problem than he
is now, so far as the bespectacled Aztec who is in
nominal charge of events is concerned. And during
all the intervening period the capable and military
Huerta will necessarily be top-dog. He is the national
hero and the national defender. Whoever else is
prejudiced by the war it looks like a chuck-in for
Huerta.
“Solomon Malaprop”: There
was much truth in that Bulletin
leader about “How Brown Lost
His Inheritance,” because the
English army was unprepared in
1066. To this day the descendants
of the French invaders own most of
the land and do most of the ruling,
and it is still a poor mean thing
to be a real Englishman named
Brown or Smith in England. Even
Tennyson, who thought he was
English, showed the popular senti-
ment by accident when he wrote
that “kind hearts are more than
coronets,” and added that it was
better to have “simple faith” than
to have escaped the _ disgrace of
being of pure English descent.
Tennyson wanted to give “simple
faith” a leg-up, and that was the
best remark he could think of. If
the English army had been better
prepared in 1066 Tennyson would
never have had a chance to write these
awful lines.
Somebody has drawn attention to the
curious fact that the recent N.S.W. Stamp
Act provides for a stamp duty on every
scrip certificate or scrip
Entitling any person to become the proprietor of
any share or part of a share in any company, etc.
Now, no scrip certificate “entitles any person
to become,” etc. It simply states for his own
satisfaction that he already owns the shares.
In the same way a birth certificate doesn’t
entitle a person to be born. It records the
fact that he has been born.
A scrap about the troubles of
Samuel, our uncle :
Already, under the reduced tariff, the
howl of unemployment is heard in the
United States. Mobs are being led by-
agitators of the Independent Workers'
League. A crowd entered a fashionable
New York church during Sunday worship,
and there was wild disorder and a great
inrush of the police. Several hundred
arrests were made, and the holy edifice
didn’t look any better after the episode.
In California 1500 unemployed started
to walk to Washington in order that they
rnight tell President Wilson that their
jobs had given out. The passage of this
so-called “army” was paid across from
San Francisco to Alameda by parties un-
known. Alameda gave the army two
meals, and shunted it into Contra Costa
county. This combined with Solano
county in paying the railroad fares of all
hands to Sacramento. Everybody' feared
trouble, and passed the pilgrims on. A
river separates Sacramento from Yolo
county. The mob was ordered to cross the
bridge and get along. “General” Kelley,
the leader, refused. He was arrested. A
big force of soldiers, police and specials
shoved the army over the bridge. Army
camped in Yolo, by last advices. Con-
sideruble demonstrations also in Boston
and Chicago. Alleged 60,000 workless in Massa-
chusetts, and 45,000 in Chicago. One hundred and
ninety men and one woman arrested at Boston in one
day for revolutionary threats.
Here and there can be found a man who
is doubtful whether Richard Denis Meagher’s
hostility towards the N.S.W. Legislative
Council is altogether inspired by his loyalty
to Labor ideals. When the dust of the Dean
case settled, Meagher found himself no longer
a solicitor of N.S.W. He had gone out, not
for cash motives, but wrecked by his super-
lative vanity. Just when time was begin-
ning to efface the footmarks of the old recol-
lection, Meagher found his name once more
advertised in connection with the Willis Land
Scandals, and when he applied for re-instate-
ment the Court seems to have been influenced
by the part he was alleged to have
played in the disturbance over the
soil. Later on he applied again, and al-
though the Court turned down the
request it held out a sort of vague promise
that next time he pounded on the door he
would not pound in vain, if he pounded hard
enough. It was as good. as its vague pro-
mise, and Meagher was practically rein-
stated, but the Law Society appealed, and the
High Court hurled him out. A Bill was then
introduced into the N.S.W. Assembly to
reinstate him as far as the Ma State was
concerned. The Bill passed the Assembly,
but was butchered in the Council, to make
a Hebrew holiday, for the ghost of Julian
Salamons was still potent in the land, and
Salamons was a long-distance hater. Now
there are these possibilities: (1) Meagher
as Premier, vice Holman deposed; (2) the
Meagher Government wiping out the N.S.W.
Upper House; (3) an Act completely rein-
stating Meagher; (4) an Act amalgamating
the professions of solicitor and barrister;
(5) Jabez Wright, the irreconcilable, hunting
for Meagher’s billet as Premier; (6)
Meagher moving on to the Supreme Court
Bench; (7) Jabez Wright at the head of the
new Ministry.
THE ANIMAL.
Now one of the companies was commencing opera-
tions in Australia, and one could not help being
awake to the fact that if it pursued the same course
as elsewhere detriment to Australia would result.
He would point out that, first of all, our powers of
dealing with companies, etc., etc. — Irvine, on the
Beef Trust.
THE FRIGID ONE: “It's no use any longer
denying that IT is here in our own pad-
dock, but I would point out that the limi-
tations of our Constitution”
AUSTRALIA: “ And I would point out that but
for your party, backed up by your pal over
there, those limitations would have been
wiped out."
PETO’S REMEDY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yet another Censure debate is in progress in the
Federal House of Representatives, while a score of
important National questions await settlement.
- —Daily Taper.
Ar! dicken to oil of this forkin’!
The ’arf o’ w’ich ain’t understud.
(Said Peto, the pug, with a leer and a shrug)
I cud make better men outer mud !
This ’ere Parlerment game is the limit;
Not one of ’em’s fit fer ’is grip—
Pertendin’ they’re fightin’ be ’owlin’ an’ skitin’—
It gives me the blitherin’ pip!
I ain’t no perlitical stoodint;
. I leaves them affairs to the ’eads;
But a whisper I ’cars, an’ the game, it appears,
Is as crook as the bikes or the peds.
Ther’s a bloke at the barber’s, ’e tells me
Them members is orl uv ’em crooks.
1 gits the straight griffen they’re runnin’ a stiff-un,
An ’orl in the ’ands uv the books.
They sends ’em up there, so I’m ’earin’,
To toil fer the good er the crowd ;
Fer to run on the square orl sergarney an’ fair,
As the rools uv the game ’as allowed.
They starts from the jump to run schlenter;
They’ve fluted an’ chiacked an’ chinned ;
An’ never does nuffin’ but gassin’ an’ guffin’,
Ixeep’ when they’re sparrin’ fer wind,
.list listen to me fer a second:
I’ve ’it on a bonzerin’ lurk.
If these ’ere two clicks loafs around an’ does nix,
Jist only pertendin’ to work ;
W’y, give ’em the blitherin’ bullet,
An’ let the ’ole crowd uv ’em drop,
Wif ther ’owlin’ an’ skitin’—an’, if yeh want fightin’,
You give me an’ Micko the cop.
Now, Mieko’s a bird wif ’is maulers;
’E’s ’ot —an’ I’m tollin’ the troof.
We’re a match, me an’ ’im, an’ we’ll put up a scrim
As ’ull pack a ’ouse full to the roof.
Turn Parlerment inter a sta’jum,
Shut down on their silly ole yap—
W’ich is no sorter use—an’ jist let us cut loose,
We’ll put up a beautiful scrap!
I’m forkin’ erconomy, mind yer,
Me dart is the savin’ uv gilt.
I’m told these ’ere chaps ’ang3 around an’ jist yaps
W’ile millyuns uv revenoo’s spilt.
They’re costin’ the country a forchin —■
Gits paid fer the things they don’t do.
But Micko an’ me we will give the show free
If yeh chuck in a bit when we’re through.
I’m arstin’ yeh. Where is the differ ?
Wot game is them Member blokes at ?
They mix it an’ rouse on the floor uv the ’Ouse —
Well ? Micko an’ me kin do that!
The gate ’ull work out at a profit
Wif orl uv our exes allowed ;
Yeh’ll be savin’ yer dough ; it’ll be a fair go,
An’ a damsite more fun fer the crowd!
Ole Micko’s no good at debatin’,
But strooth ! yeh should see ’is left ’ook !
’E’ll be Oppersition ; I’ll take the persition
At presen’ ’eld down be Joe Cook.
You gimme the tip an’ I’ll word ’im.
This sorter thing orter appeal:
You’ll git as much lor; an’ a damsite less for;
An’ the country ’ull save on the (leal.
VICTORIA.
DEN.


Concentrated
Power—
Pratts
Motor
Spirit
REXOPHONE
TALKING MACHINES
The “BUTE” 1914 Model.
m
SIZE:
12% x 12£x5f inches
PRICE
5716
(h New Zealand, 47/6).
The “Bute" Rexophone has been the most popular talking machine for several
years, and its wonderful value has been acknowledged by all. Ihe new «
has many improvements, most important being the superior high quality, ieii
motor.
The “Bute" Rexophone is the only reliable talking machine sold at a low price.
REXOPHONES are sold by all talking machine stores in Australia and
New Zealand. Write for our complete Catalogue.
JACKSON & MACDONALD,
457 Kent Street,
SYDNEY.
TABLE BOOKS of
QUANTITIES 8 MEASPRING
Don’t worry over complicated figures, but get a book
from us to save time and trouble in your work.
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND,
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 George Street
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS).
Sydney.
It Will Pay—
Unquestionably
To buy your .Jewellery, Silverplate and Watches from
the “Treasure House,” for this is an organisation which
definitely aims to cut costs by the elimination of Middle-
men.
We buy our “raw” materials in huge quantities, for
cash, from the “Fountain Head”; we manufacture the
bulk of the articles we sell; we trade for cash on small
profits. Thus you arrive at practically bed-rock for
articles of genuine value.
The other way you pay the profits of from two to
four Middlemen. This will be quite obvious by a criti-
cal comparison of articles and prices.
Our Big New Art Catalog will help you-immensely
when faced with the problem of a Gift. We pay postage
on all articles, further simplifying matters for you.
Stewart Dawsons,
Strand Corner ,
412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


ZANETIC INK PAPER copies always; leaves no
mark on back of writing; paper. Lasts well, is reli-
able and economical. No sheet genuine if not stamped
Zanetic. 2d. stamps brings two octavo sheets.
Zanetic Works, Leicester, England.*
REXONA,
The Rapid Healer, is an ointment which heals with
remarkable rapidity. Unlike the old-fashioned oint-
ments, which are very slow in their action, Rexona
speedily effects its relief after a very few applica-
tions. Sold in triangular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s.
Obtainable everywhere.*
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
RECOMMENDED WITH CONFIDENCE.
“I had a bad cold, hoarseness, sore throat and was
very dry on the chest, but after taking Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy I was greatly relieved,” writes
Mr. Martin Donohue, care of Messrs, A. Wegener &
Son, Woolloongabba, South Brisbane, Q. “After
taking a dose great quantities of phlegm are dis-
charged, which gives great relief. After my experi-
ence I can recommend Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
with confidence.”*
810-SHOWMEN!
'T' HERE’S onlv one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
GAVE THEM A TRIAL.
TAMWORTH LADY RELIEVED OF
INDIGESTION.
“I was a sufferer from indigestion, and
frequently had bad attacks,” writes Mrs.
Gladys Smith, of Carthage Street, Tam-
worth, N.S.W., “and seeing Dr. Morse’s In-
dian Root Pills advertised decided to give
them a trial. I can say they are a good
medicine for immediate relief, and can really
recommend Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
for this complaint and speedy cure, xou
may use this testimony.”*
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The inquest on the death of the well-known
jockey W. H. Smith, on the Rosehill (N.S.W.) race-
course while riding Anrofodina in the Rosehill Cup
on March 21, was a most unsatisfactory business. The
Coroner found that Smith was accidentally killed—or,
as he put it. “died from injuries accidentally re-
ceived through falling at Rosehill, in the Rosehill
Cup, while riding the racehorse Anrofodina.” It
seems to this paper that a much more virulent finding-
should have been recorded. The inquest dug out the
following interesting facts:—
(1) Quite a number of the riders in the field of
25 were boys of >5 years.
(2) It was a rough race, in which a great deal of
bumping took place.
(3) Some of the riders on the outside squeezed
those on the rails in a reckless fashion.
(4) Gracelle, the first horse to go down, was blind
on the off-side, and was ridden by a jockey aged 15
years, described by another jockey as a “little boy.”
(5) The accident seems to have been due to the
fact that this semi-blind horse was bumped on to
the rails by the pressure of some of the horses on the
outside ; and as a result of this squeezing- and bump-
ing, the half-sighted beast fell, and brought down a
number of others. ■
It seems that either (he Law or the A.J.C. should
go after the scalps of those riders on the outside who
applied the pressure.
“Place Getter”: Last A.J.C. meeting
advanced Cider and Radnor into the ranks of Aus-
tralian horses that have won five figures .in - stakes.
The complete list includes only 20 names, and is
headed by Carbine, with £29,470. In the days
when giants like Chester, Grand Flaneur and others
were on the turf, prizes were small, and none of
them reached .£ 10,000. Now that stakes are boom-
ing upwards, the list of 10,000 pounders will soon
lose interest. A Melbourne Cup winner with an
item of £BOOO to start with will in most cases
soon mop up the difference. Chester, with 18 vic-
tories, barely won that amount.
Jockeys are out of luck in Adelaide just
now. The Victorian, Mason, was killed in a hurdle
race on Easter Monday, through his mount, Wanstcad,
rolling on him after a fall. On, the following Satur-
day Jacques had a fatal skull-fracture over hurdles
at Morphettville. He was only 19, and an expert on
the flat, but —like his mount, Luger—something of a
novice at the jumping game.
* * * *
Hurdle-racer Clontaft is rather a useful
sort of brute. On top of winning both events over
the sticks at the A.J.C. meeting, at Sydney, Clon-
taft picked up a £2OO hurdle handicap at Caulfield,
on Saturday. However, the prad’s success doesn’t by
a long way make up for the other four-footed breth-
ren which have let the foolish betting public into the
soup.
The well-known bookmaker, F. D. Kenyon,
died suddenly in Sydney on Monday last, lie was, at
Tattersall’s Club, of which he was a member, and
had attended to his settling during the morning- and
early afternoon. Towards evening he rose from the
table to summon a waiter, reeled and fell. They
carried him into, the open air, but he gave no sign
of life, and when a medico arrived he pronounced him
dead. In addition to being a bookmaker the deceased
was an ardent courser, and not onlv gazed upon the
iniquitous sport but raced dogs in it. He was better
known in Victoria than N.S.W.-, having spent the
greater portion of his spoiling life in the southern
State.
“Montalex” : “0.1 v.” (B. 23/4/’l4) is
much in error about old-time pistols, certain kinds of
which shot extremely well. With a century-old Man-
ton “dueller” I have made as good practice as with
an up-to-date Henry single-barrelled breech-loader,
within duelling distance, that is to sav, up to about
30yds. At longer range, of course, the smooth-bored
pistol was not in it with the rifled. Also —having
been myself “some” revolver-shot, and being familiar
with all the sterling makes—l am entitled to say
that the revolver is not properly an “arm of preci-
sion.” With the Henry pistol above-mentioned I
could make absolutely certain of my “placing,” but
not so with even the best brands of revolver; while,
as for the cheap sort, they shoot very much as God
pleases. But the real arm of precision has arrived—
tb’o late, unfortunately, for my failing eyesight. The
automatic pistol is quite worthy of the status I have
refused to the revolver. It has about three times the
range of any revolver of equal weight, and has, con-
sequently—distances also being equal—three times
the penetrative energy. It is, moreover (chiefly be-
cause the recoil is-taken-up in-the reloading action).
as accurate as the best single-barrelled target-pistol,
and never did I more regret my vanishing vision than
when I found what I still could do with a certain
automatic make, which, of course, I cannot here
advertise by specifying.
J. M. Chapman, the Yankee promoter who
threatened to revive Australian professional cycling,
has thrown in the towel, and the job will remain
with the sleepy Leagues of AVheelmen. The last
heard of the N.S.W. organisation, which Chapman
threatened to revive first, was a request from a num-
ber of wheelers to call a meeting to endeavor to
locate the missing organisation.
The Dunlop Relay Test closes to-day,
April 30, and the various clubs are working over-
time in a last effort. So far, Maoriland has the best
of the deal, but last Saturday the Granville (Syd-
ney) club made a desperate effort and dislodged
South Canterbury (M.L.) from the second place. But
Maoriland, as represented by the Marshland Club, is
still on top. At time of writing, the position is as
follows, and is not likely to be allowed to remain
so.—
Marshland Cycling Club (M.L.), 4hr. 13min. 28sec.
Granville Cycling Club (N.S.W.), 4hr. 24min.
48sec.
South Canterbury Cycling Club (M.L.). 4hr. 26min.
3 sec.
Coburg Cycling Club (Victoria), 4hr. 28min.
13 2-ssec.
- North Suburban Cycling Club (Perth, W.A.), 4hr.
34min. lsec.
The fastest time of the Granville Club was recorded
by A. Kennedy, who covered the 10-mile section in
25min. 56sec.
The Motor Cycle Club of N.S.W. has
thrown over its usual week-end competition this
Saturday so as to give members a chance to see
Guillaux flying at Victoria Park racecourse. Mean-
while a special committee will wrestle with the
problem of how to start, inaugurate and arrange for
an Australian “Grand Prix” Motor Cycle Race. A
huge entry has been received for this mis-named con-
test, and the interest is keen. The course and con-
ditions will be evolved by the time this appears in
the groggy hand of the public, and the announce-
ment will appear in the Lord’s good time.
On Friday morning last week 12 motor-
cars left Sydney on a Reliability Test conducted by
the Automobile Club of Australia. The weathpr was
perfect and the roads were said to be good—-that is
to say, they weren’t so bad as the main roads of
Cashmere, where the mountain path sometimes ends
abruptly and the traveller climbs up a knotted rope
and finds a new section of the track at the top. The
Club nearly fell down dead with astonishment when
only seven of the dozen competitors finished in
conformity with the conditions. On Friday Schwartz
and R. A. Pye failed to reach Goulburn as stipulated,
and Saturday’s run of 152 miles from Wollongong
to Sydney by a circuitous route biffed out three
more such seasoned drivers as Sherwood (Dunlop
Co.), R. G. Todman and Arthur Kidman. The suc-
cessful ones were Paul Meyer (Benz), Carter (Cross-
ley), Boyd Edlcins (Vauxhall), Bradley (Empire)
arid A. V. Turner (Benz). All these fared through
without, losing points, for reliability, and the victory
would have to be decided on petrol consumption
and hill climbing. In the final dust-up R. A.
Carter’s Crossley scored 200 points for reliability,
100 for petrol consumption, 148 for hill climbing-
total 448. Paul Meyer’s Benz also got 200 for re-
liability, 70 for petrol consumption and 170 for hill
climbing—total 440. A. V. Turner’s Benz, 200 for
reliability, 98 for petrol and 136 for hill climbing
—total 429. It was a fine contest.
The imperturb-
able Holland
cares not for
the smiles of-
Jimmy Fit ton.
Guillaux, the French aviator now in
N.S.W., seems to have had something like a trium-
phal progress at Newcastle on Saturday, when in the
presence of about 6000 people he soared 7000 ft. in
the air and thrilled the people with feats that were
hideous in their daring. He looped the loop, he dived
the “corkscrew dive,” he described innumerable figure
eights in the air, and left the fig’ures outlined in
white smoke against the cloudless blue; he dived
straight down towards the earth and then flew up
again into the sky ; he flew upside-down, and down-
side-up, and he flew on his side : —in fact, he flew
every possible way but backwards. There is no trace
of him having done that, although he looped the
loop backwards, or, in other words, he flew over his
own head. He used a Bleriot monoplane, driven by
a 50-h.p. Gnome engine, and he proved to have the
contraption under perfect control. That he is daring
unto recklessness was proved by the stupid jokes he
played on the crowd, diving straight at some massed
cadets and skimming over their heads with only a
few feet to spare—which is fine and magnificent as
long as it comes off- —but might have been murder if
something had gone wrong with the works.
N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union is a very lively
organisation, and begins the season with a member-
ship . of, 1064, spread over 39 affiliated clubs. As
the finances of the Union are also on a sound basis,
the coming season has a healthy look about it.
.Jim Paddon, who yesterday left for Eng-
land to meet Barry on the Thames for the sculling
championship of the world, got a shock last Satur-
day. In a mile race for a prize presented by Peter
Kemp he conceded his pacemaker, Sydney of that ilk,
three seconds in a mile. And when the numbers went
up it was found the pacemaker had beaten the cham-
pion by half a length. Which means either the cham-
pion is not the only pebble on the beach or is not
quite the champion we thought him. But, of course,
there is a mighty difference between one mile and
four and a quarter. There is a good Australian
flavor about the champion’s expedition. His pacer,
Sydney Kemp, is son of that Peter Kemp who himself
was champion in 1888 and again in 1890. Paddon
took with him two Australian-built boats, the price
of one of which was coughed up by the Svdney Referee.
The craft was built by George Towns, another ex-
champion. The second boat was presented by the
aforementioned sometime champion Peter Kemp, who
built it with his own rugged hands. The contest will
rage between Putney and Mortlake, a distance of
four and a quarter miles, and will be for the cham-
pionship of the world, the championship of England,
and, by special permission of the trustees, for the
Sportsman Challenge Cup.
* * * *
Tasmanian sculler Cecil McVilly was in
evidence again last week—this time in Melbourne,
on Saturday afternoon—when he blew in first in the
Open Sculling Handicap on the Yarra, winning bv
two feet from the next man. It was described by
those who saw it as a magnificent finish, and was a
great performance, as McVilly conceded some hard
doers as much as 65sec. in a race of 11 miles.
* * * ~ *
South Australia had a tilt at the Ma
State bowlsdom at Sydney last week. But the Ma
State arose in her warpaint, and repressed the pre-
sumptuous efforts of the invaders by 129 to ’8 and
118 to 84. Adelaide Club team took revenge by
castigating Waverley (holders) by 25 to 21 in the
struggle for the Stevenson Cup—an inter-State. club
competition goblet. It was a small compens; lion,
but better than nothing.
N.S.W. Amateur Athletic Association is
holding its head in its hands over the financial pj o-
lem last year’s doings left on hand. The A.A.A.
dropped £2l0 —-£150 of which was pooled toward
giving the Yankees a splendid time. They got it.
and the A.A.A. has now got the bill, and doesn’t know
what to do with it. Another smack like that, and
the game is dead. But surely there is enough in-
terest taken in amateur athletics in N S.W. to help
the association out of the hole it has fallen into while
trying to foster a clean and health-giving sport.
The winter is upon us, and this week will
see the heavyweight forms of sport unroll themselves
in the shape of four brands of hoofball! (League.
Union, Soccer and Australian the greatest
of these is League, with Soccer risiiig rapidly.) In
addition, there will be lacrosse, .baseball and hockey
all stretching out a hand for the public sprat. The
public sprat is a much-hunted fish.
The Rugby division is bigger this year
than ever before, and the struggle between the Union
and League divisions for popular support will be so
considerable that sorheone will be badly left. The
League seems to carry too many guns for its decrepit
parent, the Union. This is how the opposing forces
stand:—- (
First/ Second- Third-
Grade. Grade. Grade. Total.
League 8 14 20 42
Union .. 11 13 14 38
The League will have the touring Knglishmen and a
Queensland XIII to aid its end of the fight, while the
Union will try the lure of invading teams- from
Maoriland and the Northern State. The practice foot-
ball made a bad beginning with a crop of accidents,
some of which are alleged to have been due to a
superfluity of “boot.” However, the referees weeded
out a couple of ruffians, and the drastic punishment
should have a salutary effect.
* * * *
Vic. League hoofball started its season on
Saturday just about where it left off seven months
ago, with much the same players, ditto crowds and
the same old 10 clubs. Chiefest collision was at
Victoria Park, where the Magpies were at home to
Carlton, and a pleasing and edifying spectacle occurred,
resulting, after a strenuous and exciting last quarter,
in a draw —’Wood, 8 goals 8 behinds; Carlton, 6
goals 20 behinds; 56 points each. Game was fast
and open, with exceptionally little out-of-bounds
plays, and ’bailers had lost the stiffness of their long
rest; also the “gate” was in the best of form. The
Old Blues relied chiefly on weight, high marking and
long kicking; the Magpies on speed and short pass-
ing, and though they led by a small margin through-
out, in the middle of the last quarter the Blues pulled
up the nine points they were behind and added a
goal as well. The locals passed the ball down again
and eluded the defence, getting a good mark in front
and the needed goal just as the bell rang. A most
intersting game. Down at Geelong an equally excit-
ing episode, between the Seasiders and Essendon,
ended similarly; though here the ’Dons led through-
out, and were overwhelmed by a vigorous attack when
they thought they had everything secure, Geelong
piling on 24 points to ’Don’s seven in the last term
—8 goals 13 behinds all. Of the others, ’Roy,
premiers, beat Melbourne by 93 points to 37 ; South
pounded the Students by 98 to 44 ; and St. Kilda
jumped on Richmond 64 times to 42, in a manner
of speaking. As to the Students, though South is
admittedly a hard proposition, they are hereby re-
quested to train properly and bog in, lest they re-
peat this last year’s performance of failing to win
one solitary game. That sort of record gives a bar-
racker the pip.
* * * *
The Vic. Ass. games, the third of the
round, resulted in Port sustaining its first defeat,
at the feet of ’Scray, by the considerable margin of
89 points to 50. Brunswick gained its first victory
by collecting 90 points to Brighton’s 52 ; North coi-
lared four more points than Essendon, after a tall
struggle—63 to 59; P’ran polished off the Haw-
hawthornites in a workmanlike manner by 84 to 56,
and ’Town galloped over ’Cote by 87 to '24. ’Town
and ’Scray are already the only undefeated teams
of the 10, and they don’t collide till May 16, when
something sudden is liable to happen to one of them.
* * * *
A strenuous effort is being made in Fog-
land and Europe to alter the service law in lawn
tennis. The proposed new rule stipulates that the
server must, before serving, stand with both feet at
rest on the ground behind the base line, but he may
raise one foot from the ground before the service is
delivered provided such foot is replaced on the
ground behind the base line before either foot is
placed on the court. The Whole sting of the altera-
tion is in the tail, and there is more than a sus-
picion that the change is being aimed straight at
Norman Brookes. Uncle Samland is fighting the
suggested change, and is declaring that it has been
designed to compel Brookes and McLoughlin to aban-
don the service that they have been developing and
perfecting for years. If it does come into force it
will do away with the lifted foot and the quick stride
forward, and will prevent these hurricane servers
from getting quickly to the net to kill a weak return.
Wilding, by the way, is in favor of the suggested
change. But then he is essentially a base-line player.
* * * .
There is a new locally-made tyre on the
market that threatens to' make blow-outs ancient his-
tory and puncture as scarce as eloquent clergymen.
It is much the same to look at as the ordinary tyre,
but between the canvas and the rubber is a solid
layer of chrome leather, soft yet tough as old boa-
constrictors. Hence the name, the Chromatic tyre.
The co. is so far only in the crawling stage, and the
output limited, but when the thing gets going pro-
perly this paper has visions of puncture outfit cos.
going bungi. The price is much the same as for
ordinary tyres.
While France is expending its natural
excitement on “le boxe” Germany has gone mad on
dog racing. The first big meeting was held at
Leipzig last month and drew enormous crowds. A
rather queer event was a race for bulldogs
(known to the Teutons as “boxers”), seven of
whom ran snorting.round the track amid great quan-
tities of excitement. Another interesting event was
a hurdle race confined to Airedale terriers; but pre-
sent scribe can’t understand why there wasn’t a bend-
ing race for Dachs-hounds. Anyhow, the meeting
was a great success, although there was some trouble
because a number of the owners persisted in hovering
about at the finishing-post with mutton-chops on
strings to induce some particular tyke to put his best
paw forward.
On Monday night the Stadium manage-
ment entertained quite a contingent of visiting
Yankee boxers, including Jimmy Clabby, Joe Wel-
lings, J. Shiff, Steve Ketchell (no relative to his
illustrious namesake). Shugrue and Moore. Jeff
Smith and Jimmy Clabby have been matched for
May 23. Solicitor W. H. Drew was in the chair,
and took advantage of the opportunity to introduce
the pressmen present to the new company, The
Stadia, Limited. Mr. Drew informed his guests
that the company had been registered that very day.
and that the directorate consisted of Messrs. J. wren
(Chairman), Reg. Baker, Thatcher, Morrison and
W. H. Drew, the speaker. Mr. Reg. Baker had been
appointed managing-director for a term of years, and
the classic Stadium would progress as it had done
aforetime without any perceptible change. During
the absence of Reg. Baker in furrin parts Mr. Harry
Reesing has acted as general manager, and on Mr.
Baa.er , ~ return it is understood that he will con-
tinue to be the chief lieutenant of the debonair
Reginald. By the way, it is time the Stadia, Ltd.,
had a conference of its referees to standarise things
somewhat and to decide whether occipital wallops
and a few' other vagaries that have been shown of
late should not be utterly wiped out. The occipital
wallop is a very burning question, as if it is allowed
to continue someone will get injured, and in the
consequent riot the boxing game will be uppercut
and put down for nine seconds if not outed.
At Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night
Milbum Saylor again demonstrated that Englishman
Nat Williams is no match for him. For the first
three rounds Williams would appear, from all ac-
counts, to have outboxed his hard-hitting opponent
and to have scored generally till towards the end of
that term. Then Saylor threw a whole cathedral at
him and landed on the body. It knocked the speed
out. of Williams, who continued to crumple up as
time went on, till, in the sixth round, Saylor put him
down three times. When Saylor saw Williams rise
once more and reel towards him he begged referee
Marre to stop the scrap. Bui the gong saved the
knock-out. In the seventh Williams again went
down twice, and as he staggered up Marre, seeing' his
case was hopeless, took the responsibility of stopping
the fight and awarded Saylor the thick end of the
purse.
The beginning of the end of Williams was that left
swing to the body tow’ards the end of the third
round. It knocked all the speed out of him —and
speed is one of the essentials for success in a battle
with Saylor. The others are a weighty punch and a
horseshoe in the glove, to bring luck. The man w'ho
fights Saylor should remember that like conquers like.
Saylor is a wild sort of hitter, and half his blows
land anywhere but where they are intended for. The
spot they were intended for would have received the
blow from the padded knuckles ; but where they do
usually fall receives the wallop from the heel of the
palm or the wrist, and some of his most destructive
uppercuts have been delivered with the forearm.
Quite unintentionally, admittedly; but- >xine the less
effective for all that. Therefore the gentleman who
next meets Saylor should be prepared to In id out the
same sort of accident. Part of his preparati u should
consist of practising how to avoid the ap -earance
of evil while collecting the benefits thereof. But it
must be also remembered that, quite apart from these
little vagaries, Saylor is a clever fighter and a > mag-
nificent tactician. Much of his success is due to
wonderful suppleness of muscle that enables him to
hit from anywhere and everywhere, and to hit hard
all the time. He has a perfect genius for swinging
his body so as to get the power for a tremendous
wallop from any quarter whatsoever. Another element
in his favor is the long reach that gives him such
an advantage in countering; and, very wisely, he
counters on every possible occasion. It was a series
of ferocious counters that hammered Tom McCormick
to bits. But the man who can use a straight left
with speed and power and has the Jeff-Smith-like
agility to dodge the powerful swings should find no
difficulty in destroying Saylor utterly. The writer
freely admits he has not seen that party around
lately.
* * * *
Fritz Holland, the Yankee welter-weight
who clawed Tom McCormick recently in Melbourne,
made his Sydney d6but on Saturday night against
James Fitton. Fitton is an uncommon name, and
the only other party to boast that monniker the
writer wots of was a certain “Mistress Fitton,” maid
of honor to bad Queen Bess, to whom Bill Shakspeare
addressed many, if not all, of his honeyed sonnets.
Whether the boxer who appeared in the classic
Stadium on Saturday night is any relation only the
Lord knows. Fitton is by way of being a boxer.
He has a good left, and can send over rights with
steam behind them. Also, his footwork is good, and
his ducking, when he does duck, excellent. The
trouble on Saturday night was that he didn’t duck
often enough. He has sandy hair and an amiable ex-
pression, wdiereas what a boxer wants is a face like
a Gorgon. -.That is where Holland scores. He has
a very grim, almost sinister, expression. His bald
dome gives the idea of a young man grown suddenlv
old, and he would appear to have shed his teeth early
in life; with the result that most of the time he
beamed on all and sundry, with a demoniac sort of
grin ; that made the crowd angry. A very little
makes a crowd angry at times. ' He is - a -mighty
slogger before the Lord —a sort of welterweight
replica of Saylor, but, on Saturday night’s showing,
without the distinctive skill that redeems much of
Saylor’s wild work. He is a voracious assimilator
of punishment, and though to him it is better to
give than to receive, he doesn’t mind how much he
receives so long as he can get in and give what he
yearns to bestow upon his pugnacious friend, as the
lawyers say. That sort of crude slogger is an easy
guy for'the man with a straight arm that has steam
behind it, and on Saturday night on two occasions
Fitton had him rocking from heavy rights. A heavy
left or two causes Holland to bore in wildly and
leave himself wide oj)en for a knock-out, provided
the opposite party has a quick and thunderous deliv-
ery. Fitton has the quick delivery, but not the
thunder behind it. However, to come to the actual
scrap: Holland weighed lOst. 61b. to Fitton’s lOst.
251 b. ; but the latter was obviously out of condition.
This was not his fault, however; he had not had
sufficient time since stepping off the boat in which
to get properly hardened up. He used a graceful
left, and occasionally sent over powerful rights
which made Holland think hard. In the fourth Hol-
land went in to slog with the wild fervor of a
religious fanatic, but Fitton met him with straight
lefts, which knocked his head back again and again.
Fitton missed several good opportunities to put over
the right. He seemed to hesitate about following
up, apparently for fear of the dangerous hooks that
Holland flung around so wildly. Holland was for
most of the time a mere chopping block, and looked
horribly crude; but the three or four wallops he
did land took a lot of the grit out of Fitton. In
the fifth Holland tried a few' straight lefts on his
own account, and though Fitton eluded most of them
what he collided with did him no good. His condi-
tion began to show signs of disrepair. In the sixth
Holland bored right in and roughed, and the crowd
howled to Fitton to smite him hard. Fitton pulled
himself together and passed over a couple of rights
that shook Holland very badly. But that toughened
streak shook his head, grinned hideously, bored in
some more, and worried Fitton badlv. The seventh
was a battle grim and great. Holland bored in
more than ever, and Fitton nearly knocked his head
off. but could not drop him. Holland showered left
hooks like rain. Fitton’.s condition faded very
rapidly, so fast indeed that it could be seen shrink-
ing. In the eighth, though showing wonderful skill,
he was so exhausted that he could no longer hit
hard enough to stop the grinning aggressor. In the
ninth he was down three times, and was ranidlv
being belted right out when the Inspector of Police
arose, and at the same moment the towel of surrender
arose, and a report arose that the game was fin-
ished. Although ‘ beaten, Fitton had delighted the
crowd with his showing, and it cheered him vocifer-
ously after having in the most flagrant and unfair
fashion hooted the .fighting Holland. Popular ani-
mosity is an inexplicable thing. It is all mouth
and feet, and has no brains.


MY HEALTH EXERCISES
PERMANENTLY CURE INDIGESTION.
thdigestioii is NOT caused by tii food yofi
eat. It is purely the result of a stomach
that has been ill-used —that has beeh shame-
fully neglected—that has been allowed to
fust, through want of exercise.
Very few people overeat. If the muscles
of the stomach are of normal strength, your
food will give you every particle of its nour-
ishing qualities.
My Health Exercises, for banishing indi-
gestion. quickly build up and strengthen the
muscles which govern the stomach —mak<-
them easily able to assimilate the food —give
nourishment to every part of the body. Be
guided by the experience of others who’ve
benefited.
Read these excellent reports:—
“Your exercises have done me a lot cf good.
I feel much stronger in every wav, a id get
better health. I used to suffer fron indi-
gestion, but have not been troubled foi some
limb now.”—j.R.K., Wallendbeen, N.S
“Those last lot of exercises have bil -hed
all the aches and pains of indigestic of
which I had a terribly bad attack the i eek
before I received your last letter.”
—A.J.W., Hobart, Tasman .
m
If you’re dyspeptic there’s a rapid, permanent and natural cure now waiting
for you to apply it. What my Health Exercises have done for others they will
surely do for you. Write for a copy of my handsomely illustrated booklet, “Health
and Strength from Self Culture,” which gives detailed information, cost of tuition,
etc. Kindly send three penny stamps to cover cost of postage.
REG. E. (“Snowy”) BARER,
294 Belmont Buildings, Castle/ Street, SYDNEY.
About my Cigar
Service—
w
It is just possible that
you may not feel disposed
to send to me for a full
box of cigars, in case tlie
particular brand you pur-
chase may not suit your
taste.
But I want you to re-
member that in the event
of you receiving a box
of cigars _ from me not
to your liking, you can
return them, and I will
only charge you for those
smoked. By this method
you are sure of getting the
cigar you like best. This
is the difference between
Cigar Selling and Cigar
Service.
EMINENCIA
CIGARS,
a§ illustrated, are mild
in flavor. They are very
good cigars, at a very
low price.
In boxes of 25’s, 5/6;
50’s, 10/6; iOO’s, 21/-
Postage on 25, 6d.; 50,
9d.; 100, 1/-; Inter-
state, Bd., 1/2, 1/8.
Actual Size I
Write for a Free Copy of my Catalog:,
“ A Discriminating Smoker’s Guide.”
A. M. SOLOMON
“ Cigar Expert,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Williams’ Holder Top
Shaving Stick.
For a practical proof of the
excellence of this new idea,
send 3d. in stamps to The J.
B. Williams Co.,
Box 98 G.P.0.,
Sydney, and you
will receive by re-
turn mail a liberal
sample exactly
like illustration.
All Wideawake
Chemists sell it.
ISO
The maddening irrita-
tion produced >by Ec-
z&na is instantly re-
lieved with “ISO,”
the unfailing, sooth-
ing, healing remedy.
Send 3d. (in stamps)
for Liberal Sample
Tube, to BL A C Iv,
Chemist, Collingwood,
Victoria. [1
Melbourne to Adelaide
riotor Record
Broken
by
Murray Aunger, Esq.,
by 5 hours 11 minutes,
using
“SHELL”
BENZINE
Let Your Next Shoes be
RIGNEY’S.
M
and you will experience the lasting satisfac-
tion that comes of wearing footwear made
as correct and serviceable as it is possible
to make it. •'" J
The illustration is a Tan Willow Calf, Three-
Button Shoe. Smart American Shape,
Brown Cloth Insertion Tops, .“Non-Tread-
Over-” Brand. Best English Manufacture.
Price - - 32/6
Also- in Patent Leather, 32/6 and 35/-.
Postage 9d. extra.
I Write for a Copy of Our Catalog.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
AU Ath u*.r BOSISTO’S
* PARROT
BRAND ••
EUCALYPTUS OIL. I
i . 1 - ,-• i ""■■g I , l ■
!
m
. ('MI ■/,
■
v, ■• "■:
f
. ” : '' '
msm
mm
...
mm
■
<
US
%
tSSSBSSSP mi' 'S&MSi
i® M f||g '
■
- •• *i
. J 44 J
* ■ -
IBosisto’s •• Parrot Brand ** Eucalyptus Oil,
the Famed Remedy for RhctllHatisiH, Sprains,
Bruises, Wounds, Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis
/Ay p Dr* v M °\
1?
il aii
' ;
w
Thoroughbred Headwear
The Pick of the World’s Best Makes is fully represented
in the Endless Variety of Hat Styles offered you at our
Store — ever y style a thoroughbred in every sense of the
word. From the standpoint of Sheer, Downright Value
it would be impossible to beat the two Seasonable
Samples of our Moderate Pricing that we are quoting
below.
THE “L.S,” FELT, 10/6
A Wonderfully Smart Hat, in
Fine-quality, Smooth Fur
Felt. Fashionable, Wide Band.
Bow at back, as shown (or
at side if desired). Stitched
Double Edges. Light, Cool,
Comfortable, Serviceable—all
Shades and Sizes —the Best
flat you could possibly buy at
10/6. Also, in Rough Fur,
at the same figure.
THE “SQUATTER,” 9/6
Specially Designed for Austra-
lian “Outback” Wear. Finely
made in High-grade Fur Felt,
with 3-inch Brim—Narrow
Band. Easy Fitting—Light in
Weight. Will stand any
amount of rough use, and looks
Stylish enough for wear on
almost any occasion. In Drab
and Fawn Shades. Also, in
Wool Felt, for Knockabout
Wear, 2/6, 4/6.
SEND YOUR SIZE
Nq matter how far you are from us, and the Hat you want will rearh
you by Return— Post Paid. Remember—“We Satisfy or
Refund.”
LINCOLN, STUART S CO. Pty. Ltd.
“Mail-Order Tailors and Outfitters,”
244-254 Flinders Street (Opp. RTy St'n). MELBOURNE


Secrets of Beauty
SELECTED RECIPES FROM HERE
AND THERE—THINGS EVERY
WOMAN WANTS TO KNOW.
Getting Rid of
Female Moustaches.
“Practical Suggestions.”
To women who are annoyed by disfiguring downy
hair growths a method of permanently eradicating
the same will come as a piece of good news. For
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be used.
Almost any chemist should be able to supply an
ounce of this drug. The recommended treatment is
designed not only to remove the disfiguring growth
instantly, leaving no trace, but also to actually kill
the hair roots without irritating the skin. * . * , *
Objectionable body odors resulting from perspiration
and other causes may be instantly banished by
simply applying a little powdered (white) pergol to
tile affected surface occasionally. * * * Smart
women are rapidly adopting the use of the natural
allacite of orange blossoms when the complexion is
inclined to be oily. It makes a capital greaselcss
cream, holds the powder perfectly, and does not
encourage hair growths.
Naturally Wavy Hair.
“Home Chemistry.”
Good stallax not only makes the best possible
shampoo, but has the peculiar property of leaving
the hair with a pronounced natural “wave,” an
effect presumably desired by many ladies. A tea-
spoonful of the stallax granules, dissolved in a cup
of hot water is ample for a luxurious head wash,
and leaves the hair with a peculiar lustre and flutfi-
ness obtainable from nothing else as far as known.
It is perfectly harmless, and can be obtained from
most chemists, although since it has been so little
used for this purpose it comes only in sealed original
packages, enough to make up twenty-five or thirty
individual shampoos. * * * For an actual hair
grower nothing equals pure boranium. It is quite
harmless, and sets the hair roots tingling with new
life. * * * The use of rouge is almost always
obvious, but powdered colliandum gives a perfectly
natural color and defies detection.
Oxygen Removes a
Bad Complexion.
“Practical Suggestions.”
Oxygen is now used to clear the complexion. Its
peculiar property of destroying waste matter and not
injuring healthy tissue is well known. Bad com-
plexions are merely the accumulation of half-dead
waste matter on the skin surface. This accumulation
shows in the form of sallowness, moth patches and a
generally lifeless appearance. Smart women now
clear off these imperfections by getting some merco-
lised wax from the chemist’s, and applying it for a
few nights like cold cream. This wax contains
oxygen, which attacks and removes the disfiguring
waste matter. It is pleasant to use and perfectly
harmless. The fresh, healthy skin which has been
covered up is soon revealed in all its beauty, and the
face so treated looks much younger and prettier as a
result. * * * TO bring a natural red color
to the "lips rub • them with a soft stick- of pro-
la'ctum. * * * For tired, hot or perspiring feet
use a teaspoonful of powdered onalite in a foot-
bath.
Home Beauty Aids.
“Household Hints.”
A persistently shiny nose or a dull, lifeless com-
plexion drives many a woman to cosmetics and con-
sequent despair. And all the time a simple remedy
lies at hand in the home. If you have no eleminite
in the house you need only get about an ounce from
your chemist and : add just sufficient water to dis-
solve it. A little of this simple lotion is Nature’s
own beautifier. It is very good for the skin, and
instantly gives the complexion a soft, velvety, youth-
ful bloom that any woman might envy. It lasts all
day or evening, renders powdering entirely unneces-
sary, and absolutely defies detection. * * * To
make the eyelashes grow long, dark and curling,
apply a little mennaline with the finger tips occa-
sionally. It is absolutely harmless, and beautifies
the eyebrows as well. * * * Pilenta soap is the
most satisfactory for all complexions. It even works
well in cold or hard water.
LANCASTERS
High=class Guns & Rifles.
On view at Sole Agents-
HERBERT OXLEY & CO.
26 Strand Arcade, Queen Street,
AUCKLAND, N.Z.,
from whom full particulars and catalogues can
be obtained free by post.
CHARLES LANCASTER & CO. Ltd.
Gunmakcrs to lI.M. King George V., 11 Panton
Street, Ilaymarket, London, Eng. (Est., 1826)
Scientific Instruments
For Every Trade, Industry and Profession.
Hydrometers, for testing every liquid.
m
[)o you use Glass Instruments in your
calling? We manufacture and repair
them, and guarantee their perfect
accuracy.
If you wish special Instruments made
for any purpose, tell us your needs
and \ve will quote you for the neces;
sary design.
Our Booklet, illustrating Scientific
Glassware of every kind, is free. Shall
we send you a copy? It costs you
nothing, and will open your eyes to
the extent of our activities.
Dairy Factory Glassware and Testing
Apparatus a Speeialtv.
WILSON, NAFIS 8 CO. LTD.,
Wharf Street, BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
W'K. SIIITIiY—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard=
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALT,, LONDON, E.C.
LOUD STREET, PERTH, AY.A.
queen-s'bui'D'ge; tvielhodrn-k, vio
6Sj PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.AY.
Branches in all parts of the world.
knowledge: is power
Thirty years of assiduous study of The Hair and its Treatment, and all
Capillary Diseases as they affect the Scalp and Hair, have given me tie means
of Preserving the Hair, and producing a new growth, after all other preparations
Qf Wairoa> New Zealand, is another wonderful case His tells me
he had not a scrap of hair, and now, after a few months’ treatment with my preparations, he has
” 0t Mr!' o" I 101 l r k e!" W ee" Waa" ’ New South Wales, writes: “My head, which was nearly bald, has now
C ° n,e M b r aC Sutherland SU st l ates only a little down on my head when I commenced to use your
SPECIAL PARASENE and COSMO LOTION ; now I have a beautiful head of hair.
Gentlemen who are going bald should use Special Parasene and Cosmo Lotion,
night and the other in the morning, and wash the head once a week with Shampuna.
Price (with postage, two months’ treatment): Victoria, 12/-; foLir months, 22/6. t er
States, 12/6 and 23/6. _ . ~
Ladies with hair falling out should apply Restorer at night, and Cosmo Lotion m e
morning, and wash the head as often as necessary with Shampuna.
Naturaline is a splendid preparation for coloring Grey Hair. le acts quickly, naturally
and effectively, and is perfectly harmless. Made in all colors. Get the right strength.
No. 1 for Light Brown Hair; Medium for Medium Brown Hair.
No. 2 for Dark Brown or a Light Black ; Extra Strong for very Black Hair.
Price: Victoria, with postage, 6/3. Other States, 6/8.
E. HOLLAND,
Scalp and Hair Specialist,
195 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
London’s Homeliest Hotel
HE Hotel Great Central has a character all
\ its own. With tube station adjoining and
/ buses and railway termini at hand, the visitor
finds access to any part of London or the Provinces
especially easy. Situation exceptionally healthy: cuisine
dainty, yet substantial. Suites enfamille at special terms
for prolonged stay. Spacious Palm Court. All the
r
N
! J X
V" V
4
\ T v.
* /
l
I!
3 CSC
HT
comfort of English Home Life, a
moderate tariff, and features
exclusive in London Hotel Life*
Hotel
GivafCen/ial
jLoiuloiz,
m
ASIi for Bosloek featherweights, the most luxuri-
ous of shoes. Lightness is their distinctive fea-
ture and quality their charm. They are the
cream of imported shoes. True to their descrip-
tion, they are as light as a feather on the feet
and exactly meet the growing, but in this climate
perfectly reasonable, desire for dainty, pliant
shoes.
Bostock featherweights are always interesting,
whether on the foot or in the hand. The skilful
work, conspicuous in every pair, never fails to
command one's admiration.
Beautifully made from the choicest of leathers,
they are obtainable from the leading shoe’ stores.
Special shipments have recently arrived, and ladies
should call before the choicest styles are sold.
802
Style 587
Ah! The
Pleasure and
Convenience
of Motor -
Boating!
Don’t envy the
possessor of a
costly motor-boat.
Enjoy your outings
m
m
afloat —dispense witk the drudgery of rowing; be comfortablei be speedy
by installing the simple, small, yet strong
Sizes,
IA, 2,
3/4hp.
EVINRUDE
Detachable Rowboat Motor
The Evinrude Motor is compact
and easily transported. It will drive
any rowboat 8 miles an hour. 25,000
Evinrude Motors are in use in salt
and fresh water. 9 Governments have
adopted it for economy and service.
Steered by the propeller—no rudder re-
quired, but supplied if desired. Reversible;
battery ignition or M.AGNETO, and auto-
matic lubrication. Fully guaranteed.
m
MELCHIOR, ARMSTRONG & DESSAU
Dept. D-12,116 Broad St., New York, U.S.A.
Descriptive Booklet from
Controlling Representative for Australasia
& New Zealand, Dent. D-12, 88 Queen Street,
Melbourne; Dejit. l9l Vickery’s Chambers. „
Pitt Street, Sydney: Dept. D-12. 3 Australasia Chambers Oueen
Street, Brisbane. Bocal Agents: H. Kennedy, Dept. D
C. J. Ellershaw & Co., Dept. D-12, Perth, W.A.
Business, Robbery, etc.
* * * *
That enterprising business man and imperialist,
“bleeds” Fitchett, of Life, lias .succeeded in
thoroughly annoying the medical profession in con-
nection with his new paraffin spec. In a recent issue
of the Fitchett periodical Sir Arbuthnot Lane was
quoted extensively in support of the theory that
paraffin makes a useful intestinal lubricant. Accord-
ing to the Australian Medical Journal (28/3/’l4) :
“In a recent number of the British Medical Jour-
nal there appeared an article by Prof. J. G. Adami,
of Montreal, expressing dissent from Sir Arbuthnot
Lane’s conclusions, and doubt as to the efficacy of his
procedure. This article is actually quoted in the
current number of Life as supporting Sir A. Lane.
It is the most astounding example of journalistic
but perhaps it would be better not to classify it.”
Fitchett’s machinations in the matter of face-foods
and paraffin cures only seem to indicate, amongst
other things, that a man may be a sturdy—even
frantic—Empire-builder, and possess withal but a
hazy conception of commercial ethics.
Up-country in N. S. Wales there is. a firm looking
for a genius. Here’s the description from the local
news-sheet:—-
WANTED.
A QUICK, smart, experienced carter, must be well
educated (college not absolutely necessary) ; good
with horses; non-smoker preferred; must be good-
looking, with a soft voice, but not loquacious;
splendid opportunity for good canvasser with plenty
of vim.
C. E. BUTCHER & CO., South Gundagai.
No reward is offered for his capture, but no doubt
it will be forthcoming. Mere gratitude would be
too Scotch a recompense.
Melbourne Tvpothetse combine printers are chewing
the rag just now. The price exacted by the paper
merchants under Typo, agreement was 3d. per lb.
from members for ordinary news printing paper,
which the anti-combine men could buy only 7 at a
higher rate even if the wholesale sharks would deal
with them at all. But the anti-combiners found that
they could get their paper from Adelaide at 2Jd. per
lb. So they are getting it, and some of the Typo-
thetse also are getting it, and the Melbourne mer-
chants feel like fat men who have cut their own
throats in an attempt to bleed the trade. The Typo-
combine appears to be damned at its source, so to
speak. 'The conspiracy was too local to last. Also
the few indispensable conspirators were too greedy.
* * * *
“Ricardo”: At Williamstown (Melb.) I am as-
tounded with the quantity of wheat stacked up.
The one ill-placed port is choked up. About 20
cargoes for the largest vessels. Yet when I went
yesterday it was only lazily trickling into two. The
galvanised iron sheds, built for storage, are crowded
out, and there is the wheat in the open air. There
have lately been abundant newspaper paragraphs
about the magnificence of the Victorian railways in
carting the wheat to Williamstown. But there it
sticks! Couldn’t some have been hauled away
from Geelong or Portland.
The narrow margin on which profit can balance.
An (American, of course) “mail-order house” admits
modestly that it uses every month a ton and a half
of pins (33601 b.). Of course they can be used over
and over again, so girl-labor is employed to remove
the pins from old papers—so long as new pins cost
more than a shilling a pound. The moment they get
below that, it is cheaper to “scrap” the old pins
with the paper—-and scrap the girls also.
If Willie Watt can spare time from play-
ing with his State Fright dolls he might give
some attention to an absurdity in Vic.’s
Licensing Act. That piece of wisdom states
that a publican may serve liquor pf any
description' to a bona-fide traveller on Sun-
day ; yet the same Act says that if the pub-
lican dares to open his bar door on Sunday
lie may be fined £5. So in the case of those
landlords who don’t carry beer in their
pockets or a bottle behind one ear, the
thirsty bona-fide has to get his liquor at the
horse trough.
A LAY OF LOANS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Being an account of the dreadful vision of an
habitual poet after a visit to the Loan Exhibition at
Federal Government House.
We sought the place where dwells apart
The Gov. in marble halls,
Far from the city’s pulsing heart.
Above were hung three balls.
The doorman, having made demands
For cash, spoke greetings with his hands.
Within the Throne Room, row on row,
Exhibits were displayed ;
They made indeed a goodly show,
Those loans which won’t be paid !
All shapes and sizes were on view,
And ev’ry brand of 10U.
A fat curator spoke to me
While lie massaged his nose:
“Now here’s a niccth young loan,’’ said he,
“But note how fasth id grows,
For this fine, large vone, over here,
Ith older only by a year.”
The man (his name was Palestein)
Took us around the show ;
Of knowledge he was quite a mine
About the cash we owe.
Each object, of which he with zest
Discoursed, was full of intherest!
Then turning to my son 1 said:
“My boy, you’ll one day own —
Just think of it! —when I am dead
And gone, each blessed loan
That’s here ! And the collection will
By then, no doubt, be larger still!”
But lo ! that most ungrateful son
Glared hard at me, his dad.
“So help me bob, you take the bun!”
Said he. “You ain’t too bad!
You got these blessed loans to blew,
And gave this bloke my I 0 U!
“The whole collection do I spurn!”
He cried with angry frown;
“And, if 1 get a chance, I’ll burn
The blamed museum down!”
He smashed a glass-case with his boot,
A priceless loan cracked ’neath his foot!”
The fat curator wore a look
As though compelled to dine
On pork ! Then an explosion shook
The place, and Palestein
In scattered fragments lay around,
Like Hebrew symbols, on the ground!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWE.


IRONCLAD SWITCHCEAR
Manufactured by the General Electric Co. (U.S.A.), and
The British Thomson-Houston Co. Ltd., England, are the
Switches which should control all your mine and outdoor
Circuits, The contact surfaces are of extra large area, giving
a quick break under load with a minimum of sparking. The
outside casing is of cast-iron, absolutely protecting the inner
mechanism from all weather, and giving satisfaction under
the severest conditions.
Write for your copy of Bulletin No. 4935 *
mm
n 5
7 f v h
V
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC Ca
217 Clarence Street, SYDNEY. Corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, MELBOURNE.
AGENTS
PERTH, W. A. —Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., “Mazda House,” Hay Street.
BRISBANE, Q. —The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia, Ltd. (E.S.C.A.), Edward Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND. —The National Electrical & Engineering Co., Ltd., Dunedin, Auckland, Wellington.
THE HANDIEST
MEDICINE OF ALU
Australians will find
J
P
the most useful household remedy
for Impure Blood, Boils, Pimples,
Constipation, Liver Troubles, Rheu-
matism, Want of Energy, and all
Stomach Complaints.
“Golcryst” is made from Epsom
Salts, Senna, Sarsaparilla, . Dandelion;
Liquorice and Ginger-, and is thtiS nbt
a quack remedy With a secret formula.
P&eKets: 3d., 6d. & is.
Eree Sample posted by Proprietors—
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & JO.,
MELBOURNE.
[2
IK
malteß M,t
It is easy to make and re*
quires no cooking, and its re*
suits are marvellous.
As a liquid Health Food
and Drink in one, it is un-
rivalled.
Thousands of Australians
are taking it, and find it gives
them health and vigour. It is
delicious to taste, and inex-
pensive and easily digested.
AH ages take it, and find it
gives and maintains health.
Ask for Horlick's ai l the
, , Soda Fountain. . .
HORLICKS
MALTED MILK
Freedom. Ease 8 Comfort
The ...
WELMAR
Shirt
Pat. 1274
24/5/’ll.
Stocked by
Leading
Mercers and
Outfitters.
Manufactured by
Welch, Margetson 8 Co.
Pty. Ltd.
m
THE LONE NAMP
THE AUSTRALIAN MAGAZINE
A monthly guide for everything Australian.
6d
m
*
Embroideries
m
DIRECT FROM
SWITZERLAND.
Waists from 2/9
Babies’ Dresses „ 4 9
Girls’ Dresses „ 8/6
Ladies’ Dresses „ 9/6
Delivered free of postage. All
our embroideries are unmade,
but we deliver paper patterns
for all our styles to order.
Write to-day for complete
catalogue 209 of our famous
Swiss Embroideries, on ba-
tiste, voile, crepe, linen, and
all the latest silk materials,
with finest Paris fashion
plates, sent free on request.
Stamp letters 2id.; cards Id.
'cfiaeyer&Co.
C
wi
Lucerne
'Switzerland •
CRANES and PULLEY BLOCKS
Manufactured by Herbert Morris Ltd. (formerly Herbert Morris ®. Baslert Ltd.)
800 CRANES IN STOCK
Ready for Shipment,
.
■Zf::X'O-
- • M '
'I
m-%
/1
HI V *'* \
> iPr 'H ’ S : ‘“ ifW
L*2
il
The Quality and Prices are Right. Send us your Inquiries.
Complete* Illustrated Catalogue of Cranes and BlocKs sent on request.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES— We will send a Pulley Block on approval at our own expense to any user.
RS LTD.
9
HAES &
163 Clarence Street,


FLAVELLE’S
Great STOCK
... AT ...
Half Marked Prices
For a Few
Days Longer
Flavollo’s carry one of the finest and best-
assorted Stocks of Jewellery, Silverware, Watches,
etc., in the Commonwealth.
Owing to the death of our Senior Partner all of
these goods are now offered at Half Price, in
order to adjust accounts.
Can you afford to miss such a chance?
These values are typical of many others.
se
m
Ladies’ Sterling
Silver Hair
Brushes, in ninny
handsome designs,
prices range from 15/-
All Now Half-
Price.
Cases of Brushes.
Case containing Lady’s
•Sterling Silver, Hair
Brush and Comb, richly
engraved. Was 39/-
Now 19/6.
Handsomely
Chased, Choice
Floral Designs. Were
J' 2/2/- Now £l/1/-
Extra Large Size, .abso-
lutely plain Silver Brush and
Comb in Case. Very Heavy.
Was- £4/4/- Now £2/2/-
Handsoine Case, con-
taining sterling; Silver Hair
Brush, Mirror- and Comb, em-
bossed design,'. Was £t/15/-
Now £3/17/6.
.Quite Plain, With nar/ow floral border,' solid
Silver Brush, Mirror and Comb, in Case. ■ Was
'• £B/5/- Now £4/2/0.
Pair of Gent.’s
Sterling' Silver
Brushes & Comb,
in Case, heavily-en-
graved pattern. 1 Was
£2/10/-
Now £l/5/- j
Solid Silver Pair]
Gent.’s Brushes
and Comb, quitel
plain, in strong Leather'
Case. AVas £4/10/-
Noav £2/5/-
m
Very Handsome, Plain, Solid Silver
Cloth, Hat and Pair Gent.’s Hair
Brushes & Comb, in Case. Concave backs.
Was £7/15/- Now £3/17/6.
y
a
mi
SSMTi
m
Solid Silver Photo Frame, neat scroll
idesign, very strong, leather back. Was 36/-
No>v 18/-
Very Dainty and Unique, Sterling
Silver Photo Frame, size 4j x 3J .inches,
plain half silver border, with embossed design
of ifative Bear in left-hand corner. Oak back.
Usual Price 12/6. Now 6/3.
A Large Range of Cabinet Size Ster-
ling Silver Photo Frames, from 9/6 to
30/'- Now all Half Price.
Missive Solid Silver Frame, quite plain,
oval- shape, 35/- and £2/10/- Now Half
I/rice.
ORDER BY POST. —Our Mail Order Stall lias
been increased during this Sale, so you may
rely on prompt, careful attention being paid to
all orders or inquiries.
Flavelle, Roberts &
San key Ltd.,
150 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
And at ROCKHAMPTON and
LISMORE.
m
MARTINI
•22 Cal. RIFLES L...
Hold the World’s Records
Mr. A. J. Dalton of the Collingwood Rifle Club beat "
all previous records by scoring 67 consecutive bullseyes
in actual competition. He used the famous No.
B.S.A. Martini Rifle and B.S.A. Aperture Sight.
Mr. J. Pepe put up another world’s record by scoring
299 out of a possible 300 at 25, 50 and ICO yds. He used
the No. 10 B.S.A. Martini with B.S.A. aperture sights.
Mr. H. Motton won the 1912 championship of New South
Wales, shooting with the No. 6 B.S.A. Martini.
Mr. J. Mues won the 1912 championship of Victoria
shooting with the No. 10 B.S.A. Martini.
B.S.A. Martini Rifles are made in II models, ’22, '3lO
or '32 bore and are unapproachable for range or
sporting work. Fully described in latest B.S.A.
Rifle Catalog. Post free from
11 Y PFNNIF Representing B.S.A. Company Ltd.,
U. I. It , A us t ra lj an Buildings, Melbourne
ft
M,h
Picture Showmen!
I WHY NOT HAVE THE BEST?
I
KELVIN
"generating set
The Silent
Empire Bioscopo
and the
Keivin Electric
Generating Sets
are unbeatable.
It is our business— and pleasure—to intro-
duce these‘machines to you.
Tlie 'Empire is built of Steel —a Special
Steel —that will outlast any other Bio-
scope, no matter how continuously it is
used.
They are Fireproof, and Absolutely Reliable.
THE KELVIN SETS—Engine and Dynamo direct coupled —stand alone in the Picture World.
We. have them of different capacities, to suit all requirements. They are on the one base fitted with
wheels. The Engine is Slow Speed, and the greatest quality it possesses is efficiencybend tor out
Booklet on these Machines. . - ~
We have a few Second-hand Outfits on Sale. Are you Interested.
JERDANS LTD.
393 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Onoto
The pen to possess.
A “nib”
in every style
“ Whatever your style oj handwriting, you
will find that I can supply you with the
very nib that suits you best. A-sk for me
personally at the shop to-day."
Don’t put up with the old-
fashioned fountain pen that
. needs a filler—get an Onoto.
' Don’t keep on using a pen
that an Onoto.
The Onoto fills itself with ink
easily and quickly from any ink
supply. It is the one pen that
you can rely upon to fill itself
properly. It can’t leak.
If you buy the wrong kind of j>en to-day you will probably wish for an Onoto
to-morro.w —so be sure to get an Onoto. It is British made and guaranteed by
its makers.
Price 12/“ and upwards of all Stationers, Jewellers, and Stores. Booklet about he Onoto Pen free on
application >o Thos. De La Rue & Co., Ltd., 167 Bunhill Row, London, E.C, or the Managing
Agents for Australasia. Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
PANAY, .PULA-,JANA & BOMBLON
MATS. Carefully selected, Hand-
somest and most durable Grass Mats made
in World. Beautiful colors and designs,
round or square, 12/6 to £2 each", according
to size. Post paid. Largest size will cover
floor ordinary room. Satisfaction or money
back. Write for free Catalog.
Pattingell & Co., Lucena, Tayabas, P.I.
Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 18tli April, 1914.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
Vacancies for Assistant Schoolmasters
in H.M.A. Ships.
APPLICATIONS are invited from per-
sons qualified for appointment _as
Assistant Schoolmaster in H.M.A Ships,
first appointments to Australia and En-
counter.
Rate of pay (consolidated) £ISO to £230
per annum. Allowance of £7 for uniforhi
made on first appointment. -
Further particulars may be obtained from
the Naval Secretary, 'Navy Office, Mel-
bourne ; or .from the Distriflj, Naval Officer,
Brisbane; Edgecliff, Sydney; Port Mel-
bourne; Largs Bay, S.A.; Fremantle, W.A.;
and Hobart. Applications must reach the
Naval Secretary, Office, Melbourne,
not later than 11th *May, 1914.
S. A. PETHEBRIDGE,
I. , Secretary.
TIIE Australian Magazine— THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price. 6d.
ESTABLISHED 1374*
FOR
COUGHS
filAfiridq
es
UjkqTon
ic
FOR
COLDS .
Public Speakers Singers, and all wbo
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
SOLD BY RETAIL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
STOCKED BY ALL WHOLESALE
DRUG HOUSES in AUSIRALIA.
Prepared by W. T. OWiRIDGE, LTD.
HULL. ENGLAND. j
COLORED POST-CARDS, by -Harry J-
Weston —“WEEKLI . YV ORRIES.
of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin iew *
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney.
The long-expected at last. A Japanese girl, doing
balancing feats on a stage at Marseilles (France),
" fell and was 'killed. Also, “her ladder fell into the
orchestra, and seriously damaged a musician.” One
of these evenings an Australian stalls-patron will be
Seriously Damaged; and then there will be a row.
Genee told a London Referee interviewer that she
is likely to leave, the stage, so as to get some “real
home life” with 'heir, husband. At present, she has
to practise “every day, for many hours. A dancer’s
woik is never done.”- .She added the. truly feminine
reason, for *retiring soon, that, as she was before, the;
public at the age of 12,-people think of her. as much
older than she is. As for being a has-been \tdio has
made her pile, “as regards my age, health and
income, there is lio reason Wjby i should not keep on
dancing for many years, sav another 10 or 15, and
then I should not be at all old." Her dream for
later life is to found a School of Dancing.
“C. Ockney”: “Who’s the Lady?” it species of
chemise comfedy which- is to pay this country a visit
in * a mouth, or two, got n great advt. in' Dublin
recently. 1 They .dislike the tabasco business in Ire-
. land, and the result was that when the really, torrid
portions of “Who’s the Lady?” were submitted, the
crowd began to hoot. One of the objectors Was
arrested. He told the beak that' lie - had hissed the •
play, and would do it again on the earliest opportu-
nity. The Bench, after hearing evidence, remarked:
“I consider the defendant has done: a public; service,
and I-dismiss the ease.’.’ The only person who came •
badly out of the episode .was the British Censor.
“Snell”: I note a new development among .theatre-
goers. Formerly if people disliked a show they
stayed away, and left an aching emptiness in the
theatre to signify disapproval’in the usual manner.
Nowanigbtij people go to shows whether tljiev like
them or not. - They go from 'sheer force of habit, or
because of.' the melancholy lack of something to do
after dinner. Nobody, has a good word for two
entertai nlmhits that are doing quite well in my
metropolis just now, and I have to admit that while
the scarcity of appreciative epithets is richly deserved
the large attendance, js’ utterly uncalled for. ; 1 anti-
cipate a time when theatre-going will have become
mechanical, and when nobody will take much notice
if now and then the management neglects to put on
any play at all. >
“Stargazer”:-Would you expect the fruit jtrade to
be susceptible to dramatic influence ? I was buying some
fruit in a Melbourne city shop one evening recently,
greengages among "other things', and the salesman
said. “Great demand for greengages lately. Would
you mind telling 'me if you have any particular
reason for buying greengages?” I answered that I
bought -greengages because I rather liked that hind
,of gage. The shopman became . explanatory. ,“I
asked,” he said; “because I’m investigating. I
lgfticed that every second customer of ours was
wanting! gfeeiigages. :jl. inquired, at jdjther places,;apd
“discovered that the demanft was general. Then I
looked into it, and found it was all due to a drama
tbey’ve been playing at the Royal, ‘The Doctor’s
Dilemma.’ In that play a doctor recommends
greengages; and later a chap is cured of something
by greengages. It’s created quite a rush on green-
gages. I wish an author would ring in a few words
about water melons.”
- “Harrison O. ”: Technically, “Madame N” is one of
the worst plays Melbourne has been invited to take
seriously for some time. It is strung out in a pro-
logue amf the .simple device of keeping
various characters hard at'work* recounting ‘its 'central
incident"," which, by the way, happens before the rise
of the curtain. In the prologue we learn of how
Jacqueline Fioriot ran away from her ridiculous hus-
band. In the first act Jacqueline fa) tells the yarn
to the newly-acquired lover, (h) solemnly unwinds -it
as a warning to a serving-vveneh who is threatened
with an attack of conjugal infelicity, (c) the lover
passes tile dreary old scandal on to a brace of black-
mailers. In this act. too, the lady kills her lover
in full view of the limelight man. The second act
happens along and the blackmailers project the
oft-told chronicle at the head of the sorrowing
husband. Then comes act three, laid in an Assize
Court. The frayed narrative is repeated some more.
Also, the murder which the audience knows all about
is described in detail. This last is a particularly
glarihg fault, since there is no reason why the act
should not begin just before the finish of the public
prosecutor’s speech, seeing that the address of counsel
for the defence is the only part that matters tuppenCe.
On the other, hand, there being only tuppence worth
of interest in the act, perhaps it would be better; if
it didn’t start at all.
“G.D.8.”; I was in Canton, in September last,
just when they were cleaning up the revolt there.
I was on foot in the street that runs alongside the
railway station, one day, when I heard a shpt.
I blew along and found there was a row on at a
theatre. An obliging Italian explained that a dozen or
so rebels wanted to see the show for nothing, and
that this was too much for the proprietor, who set
his doorkeepers on to them. There was an argu-
ment during which a Mauser pistol went off, and one
of the doorkeepers went off too. The res f retired
and barred up the doors. The debate was still con-
tinuing, when a half-company of troops arrived
from nowhere in particular. I heard one orde> - given,
and the Dago and I got up the street as fast as We
could leg it. We ran slap bang into a crowd : of
rebels coming in the opposite direction. They didn’t
waste much time, but got to work on the killing
right away.- The shop people knew what was coming
alj. right,' for you could hear the doors hanging all
along the street. I suddenly missed my friend from
the sunny south and found myself alone. I squeezed
myjjelf into a doorway and., tried to see the -bullets ’
as they went’by." A Chinese' officer came along to
me (he was brave, I’ll say that much for him) and
Said- in excellent Eiiglish: “Do not, .be afraid. We
do not seek to molest foreigners. Keep close to the
wall.” He was shot 'before he got back to his men.
So .1 made myself as small as I could and waited.
The scrap lasted perhaps ten minutes—it seemed like
two hours —and when the rebs. had cleared off I
counted 40 dead marines. I found my. Italian a few
minutes after; lie had got into a shop. “Ah,” he
said, “I know these peoples. I was with the artil-
lery in Peking, when the Boxer war was on. They
fight like the devils, isn’t it?”
THE DETECTIVE ADVERTISEMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is no longer good business for a leading actress
to have her diamonds stolen. The advt. that was
once so desirable is now out of date. When Miss
Daisy Jerome arrived in Melbourne —if we are to
believe the expert theatrical paragraphers—there was
a private detective waiting to escort-her (at a respeot-
ful distance), because “the enormous amount of jewel-
lery she carries may lead to a good deal of unsouglit-
for, and perhaps dangerous, attention.”
I saw .an actress, t’other day.
AVho for a change was simply walking.
Bchind'her, some few yards away,
A dark-eyed mystery was stalking,
A sly, suggestive cuss who glared
’Neath slouching hat, as black as thunder,
And every where ! the couple fared,
The people stopped and stared in wonder.
He seemed so fierce, so jealous-eyed,
So sedulous in his adherence,
Perchance lie thought of homicide.
This quite excused my interference.
“Behold,” I cried, “the villain dread,
Who follows you with dire intention.”
She smiled a lunelit smile, and said:
“Oil, there’s no danger, sir, to mention.”
“He does his duty, nothing more,
He is my own plain-clothes detective.
He guards my gems and gauds galore;
’Twould seem the ad. is quite effective.
You might have placed .the slouching wight,
I-lis regulation feet betray him.
My diamonds? Oh, they are all right.
I had to pawn the lot to pay him!”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


r.
'C
w
m
i
"’V^-whKVr
7
w
-i
\.
s
'“^YV^I
S!
K
L'
5
•»» I'Hitt
Si
•rUilltUl
VJO
w
1
w
C7W7
=£
l
••it
_X j
• • » • • 1
;
iiP
mk
ttsßill
31 U
g.rio
|Ti
ri
--a*
•hi*
.iimuu'uiwuuu-inii •|||i'">
liiiiiiii 1U
tiiumniilu
j
wutitin
. 3H3HMAH3A3
..SSOO„ IYHI
amsihay am
;v
m
o
CP
oS
CA
m
&
hi
o*J?
t r>
7jo
&
&
tr>
1
do
3
;
4
s&-.


Shipping.
P.
and
O.
BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
‘Twin Screw. All Fitted witn mreie» xeiegrapuy.
tTntcnding passengers will need to make immediate
application for berths.
PASS!’NOIM! ACCOMMODATION AMTDRTITPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
London i-ifi, £is & L-yn.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l3 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDSRSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co.. 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Audits: Geo. Wills & Co.,
I.im ted.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA EN GLAN D.
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO.. Ltd.,
12, Martin Pi.ack, Sydney.
Hanking, Public Companies, &e.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. TV ARDEN (President). W. H. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
DEPOSIT YOOR SURPLUS MONEY
in this Bank, where it will earn INTEREST
at 34% on the first £2OO, and 3% on the
excess to £5OO, and be REPAYABLE ON
DEMAND when yon require it.
Deposits Received from Is.
MONEY TO LEND ON MORTGAGE
at Low Interest to Farmers and Settlers and
on Approved City and Suburban Freeholds.
This Bank has No Agencies at Post Offices.
Represented in the State by 118 Branches
and over 500 Accncies.
By order of the Commissioners.,
•I. IT. DAVIES. Secretary.
THE.
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £382,500.
Directors : Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
Hon. ROBERT PIIILP, M.L.A. ; lion. A J
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manaoer: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 242 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
gustraiian j)ank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ..
SUBSCRIBED
PAID-UP (31st Dee., 1913) .
RESERVE FUND
Companies Act.)
. . £2,000,000
. . £1,198,534
.. £1,‘195,446
• . . --.£35,000
HEAD OITICE -George and King S‘reets, Svdnev
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir Wu.lj.AM P. Mannino, Kt., Chair-
man ; Georoe .1., Sky,' Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon.
Esq. ; Arthur >B. Barton, Esq. ; Frank N.
Yahivood, Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysacuit, Esq-
Branches throughout New South Wales A r Queensland.'
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the’
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act. 1803.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 3.0. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. . ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid-Up 413.41 S 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . 154,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stool; 3.091.669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors— Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron. Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunnino-
Esq. : Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manaoer— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE -- - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland
America. Canada. South Africa, China. the East.’
fhe Colonial gjutual fife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED*
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3.445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000.000
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
Directors:
The lion. C. J. Roberts. C.M.G.. M.L.C., , Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C.. M.P.
A BOSS MILLER. liesident Secretan
Shipping.
ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD, N.D.L.
IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS.
TO COLOMBO. SUEZ. NAPLES, GENOA, ALGIERS,
SOUTHAMPTON. ANTWERP. AND BREMEN.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Installation.
All Steamers fitted with Laundry.
FA 11 MS TO LONDON: 1.. £7l/10/-: IT.. £4O ;
111., £l5 to £l9. RETURN: 1., £lO7/5/-; 11.,
£6O: 111.. £3O/12/- to £37/16/
I.OIIMANN and CO.. General Agents. 7 Bridge-st.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH HOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
Steamers sail as under (circumstances permitting).
And every 28 days thereafter.
The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
•Cabins de luxe, with private bath, etc.
fOne, two and three-berth rooms.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLET'S obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD...
259 George Street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
m
Twin and Triple-screw Steamers.
SUEVIC, 12.500 tons, about MAY 20.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, about JUNE 10.
* CERA M IC, 18,500 tons, about JULY I.
RU VIC, 12,500 tons, about AUG 5.
* Largest vessel in Australian trade.
Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Fares—Capetown or Durban, £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from . . . . 25 5 0
PAMPHLETS AND ALL INFORMATION ON APPLI-
CATION. Luggage Received Only on Day of Sailin''.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
HOCK HAMPTON
(Pt. Al:nn Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSY IDLE
‘CATRNS
(‘Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland porta)..
NORTH.
BOMB ALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney May 2.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne May G.
Leaves Sydney 'May 9.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne May 13.
Leaves Sydney May IG.
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports).
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney May 2.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney May 9.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
lIS LAN D T OURS t
TO PAPUA
(viathe Queensland Coast.)
A Charming Combination
Tour.
S.S. “ MATUNGA
MAY 6.
Brisbane, Cairns, Port
Moresby, Samarai and
Wooulark Island.
£2O.
m
TO THE NEW HEBRIDES
(via Lord Howe and Norfolk
Islands).
53 DAYS’ TRIP.
S.S. “ MAKAMBO,”
JUNE 1.
Callin'; at about ICO Trading
and Mission Stations
throughout the Group.
-' £2s-
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., Head Office, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIREC'iuUS
£3,500,000
£2,350.000
£3,500,000
£9.350 000
The lion. Sir Charles Iv. MaeKollar, I\t., M.L.C.,
President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
ine Hon. Sir Normand McLaunn, ivi., jvi.Jj.C.
The lion. Janies T. Walker
The Hon. Edmund W. Kosberv, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Alfred Coorge Milson, Esq. ; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office-George St.. Sydney. London office-29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
336 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Betters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD. ,T. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Bankincr Co.
o
of Sydney, Limited.
£ 1,976,168 J. 5 0
H,680,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
a; r..cr>r>,l6B 15 0
o'" DIRECTORS:
George •!. Cohen. Esq... .. Chairman,
lion. 11. E. Eater, M.L.C. .. Deputv-Chairman.
lion. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
,i. Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: E S. Cape, Esq!, and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
"» General Manager: T. A. Dibrs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. 11. Masste.
Kend Office: George Street. SYDNEY.
London Office: 13 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout' the. State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
|ank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares '. . . . . . 500,000
Ordinarv Shares ( £l','000.000) Paid-
up \ . .. .- ..' .. 500,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,117
Capital Paid-up . .
Reserve Fund
, Reserve Capital ..
DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji, Great Bri
tairi|snd Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts -all other usual Banking business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £544,304 10 0
Reserve Liability nf-Shareholders . . 156,486 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 77,506 0 0.
£778.291 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. =======
Cen. Man.. F.dwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
Lonctcn "trice: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
26 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and- Correspondents throughout, the World.
The Best Stories written in Australia
appear in Tiie Lone Hand each month.
Brice 6d.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
JO.OOO tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
Glassed 100 Al at British L'ovds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
VENTURA .. | May 2 j July 4 | Aug. 29 I Oct, 24
SONOMA .. ~ | June 6 i Aug. 1 j Sept, 26 j Nov. 21
The through trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE,
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel, 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
"pHE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
Tlie Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlv to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND' RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE -ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF?
"V/OU begin to
look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous, A
bottle of the
world-famed
m
Lockyer’s
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives, health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOON OLD.
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE A
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY f
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping; at Fremantle I
to all North-Western Ports, j
T.R.S. WANDIIAiA(77BS
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
May a and June fi.
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steerasre Passengers.)
BRISBANE
-VIA CRAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to C« inis.
WARITjPA (7713 tons').
May 2, Slav 30, June
27 and July 25.
Saloon Passage Tickets arc interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions. which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Ofiiee.
G. S. VUILL Jtc CO.. LTD.,’
Agents, C BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY,
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASI AN R.M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
*Triple-screw steamer, fitted with cabins-de-luxe en
suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street. Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
StEAM TO LONDON AND LIVERPOOL.
T.S.S.
11,000 Tons.
BRISBANE
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
ESSEX.
CAPTAIN BROWN,
about JUNE 5, 1914.
„ JUNE 10, 1914.
„ JUNE 14, 1914.
JUNE 18, 1914.
FARES TO LONDON
Saloon, £4O. Third-Class, £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-
Saloon Fares from Brisbane, £2 extra.
Steerage, £l/1/- extra.
Saloon accommodation consits of all two-berth
cabins on Upper Deck situated amidships. Well-
lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provi-
sions from cool chamber throughout the voyage.
Electric light throughout. Return- and round-trip
tickets issued via Cape and/or Suez Canal. Prepaid
passages arranged. Fitted with wireless.
For illustrated pamphlets and full information
apply
BIRT & COMPANY, LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITII, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER, SMITH & COMPANY LTD, Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO.. LTD., Hobart.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,”
“ Ulimaroa,”
"Riverini,”
‘ Westralia,
‘Wimmera,
‘Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
C<)MMONWKAI/ITI k ALL NKW ZKALANI) PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY.
MI'.LBOURNF. AND LAUNCESTON.
SYDNEY, M KLBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND W KST
AUSTRALIAN POUTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ...10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons'
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA”, ... 6500'tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” A. 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel
bv the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company’s steamers
possess all up-to-date ' arrangements for con-'
venience and comfort, making travel safe, easy
and pleasant. After first port of calF-First and
Second Saloon Tickets are interchangeable with all
Interstate Companies, also with the Union S.S. Cov.’s
steamers in the Fiji Trade; particulars on applica-
tion For dates of sailing she Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP S COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, It BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.


Hotel*). Ac.
I
Si
QEORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 13/- per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING lIALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE
m
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde-, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/11
Directions with every
bottle
MADAME LEIGH
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
FOR A FAIR DINKUMGO
i ... TRY THE ... 4
O © Q
000000
■au
ME-ZOS
Accordeons
The World’s Best
35/-, 42/- 63/-
Sole Agent:
LYONS,
Bourkest.,Melb.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
m
Bank of Hustralia
SYDNEY
This Bank is open for all classes of GENERAL BANKING BUSINESS at
STANWAY HOUSE, KING STREET, SYDNEY
Also at Newcastle, Broken Hill, Canberra, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, Brisbane, Rock-
hampton, Townsville and London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the worid. Bills negotiated or iorwarded for
collection. Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
Advances made against approved securities.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
Central Office : 30 CASTLEREAGH BTREET (top of Moore Street), SYDNEY.
Branches in the above cities and 2,000 Agencies at Post Offices throughout the Commonwealth
Deposits from 1/- to £3OO. Interest at 3% per annum.
Deposits or Withdrawals may be made at any Branch or Agency within the Commonwealth.
JAMES KELL Dkputt Governor April, 191 U. DENISON MILLER, Governor
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy ami Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TKOEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street. Sydney, N.S.YV. A. MESTON, Local Director,
SCORES ORDERED
and SOLD.
No wonder they are such phenomenal
value!
They are extra heavy and strong,
made specially to last a lifetime.
Our Managing Director happened,
in London, to be ordering heavily
from one of England’s largest manufac-
turers of Solid Silver Goods, and asked
for a quotation for hundreds of a line
of Manicure Sets to be made in slack
times. <;■ s
Result, he got bedrock quotations,
and the goods are here.
The set we sell at 32/- is really
worth 50/-
Fairfax g Roberts Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
iri
Heavy Solid Silver MANICURE SET, complete in case, 40/-;
‘less 20% discount, 8/ 32/-
IF IT’S A “PLUM
V 5
Then you can depend on it for ease in shaving—every morning it will
be ready for use.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR, 10/6.
Whether your beard be strong or weak, you’ll find satisfaction if you
shave with a “Plum.” This splendid razor is unsurpassed. The
blade is made from the finest ringing silver steel —tempered to perfec-
tion, so that the edge is always keen. It cuts as clean as a whistle,
and you don’t feel that tearing sensation which you experience when you
use a dull razor. Why not try a “Plum?” Send for one to-day. We
pay postage and guarantee to keep it in good order for two years,
free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a handsome present.
All the Above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITREN, 654
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
m
ABBEY
SHOES
—Right in Style
—Corredt in Fit
Satisfactory in Wear.
The illustration shows our very
latest model, in a choice, Ali-
Patent Derbv Bal., 32/6.
Also in Highest-grade Tan Willow
Calf, 32/6.
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage Od. extra.
Write for our Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 Georg'e Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
0
:
‘‘ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and.
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive v~u. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
THE. ONLY STEAM ENGINE
REALLY WORTH CONSIDERATION IS UNDOUBTEDLY
©te MARSHALL
(ALL BRITISH
BUILT).
WE are assuming you are an Engine Buyer and require THE BEST!
MARSHALL’S have been manufacturing the WORLD’S BEST STEAM ENGINES for over 60 years !
JL
MARSHALL’S have always stood EASILY FIRST in PORTABLES, STEAM
TRACTORS, OIL TRACTORS and VERTICAL BOILERS.
MARSHALL’S ENGINES have been awarded over 500 Gold and Silver
Medals.
MARSHALL’S are the recognised standard by which all other makers are
gauged—ALL OVER THE UNIVERSE.
Give us an idea of your requirements, and we quote per return post. Our terms are exceptionally
liberal. Illustrated Catalogs FREE.
R. L. SCRUTTON ®. CO. LTD.,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
WHERE THE BEST ENGINES ARE SOLD (NOT KEPT IN STOCK).


ST
The “Trocadero”
Gui nea Ru g.
This Rug we illustrate is an excellent
example of worth, warmth, utility and
value. It is a nice weight, and the design
is quite smart. It is specially selected Pure
Wool, vyith reversible pattern. Price 21 -
FIN nT^Y’S,
The Big BlocK, BRISBANE..
HOW DYSPEPTICS CAN EAT WHAT
THEY WANT WITHOUT PAIN.
In the vast majority of cases, states a
leading specialist, indigestion, dyspepsia, and
other so-called stomach troubles are in no
way due to the fault of the stomach itself,
but almost entirely to fermentation of the
food contents and the resultant formation of
acid and gas which irritate and inflame the
delicate lining of the stomach, and unnatu-
rally distend the stomach walls, causing dis-
placement of the vital organs and dangerous
pressure on the heart and lungs. He esti-
mates that 96 per cent, of all stomach pains,
either acute or chronic, are directly or in-
directly due to acid fermentation; all of
which he has proved can be avoided by
neutralising the acid and stopping the fer-
mentation by means of a simple antacid
known among and obtainable from all
chemists under the name of bisurated mag-
nesia : half a teaspoonful in a little water
immediately after eating, effectively prevent-
ing the slightest -indication of fermentation
and discomfort even in the severest cases.
Inquiry 'among chemists confirmed the re-
markable value of this product, but readers
are cautioned when purchasing to see that
the name is spelled b-i-s-u-r-a-t-e-d, as there
are other chemical products bearing names
similar to bisurated magnesia, but which are
lacking in its peculiarly valuable properties.*
1 I
Hi
1&
KM
CIXTY YEARS of History HOWARD Watch.
« have proved the UUnmw
In more than one hundred and fifty hfchl'-
specialised occupations, Howard Time is a run
Call and see the Watch or send for the Illus-
trated Booklet.
PROUDS LTD., Jewellers,
Sole Representatives, 187 PITT STBEET^S^PW^^
IN BANANA LAND
Mick Hackett, of the Cooper, who passed
out at Windorah recently, was a fine ex-
ample of the Northern degenerate. He had
been shearer, selector and squatter; had
fathered a family of 10 (of whom the eldest
is a youth of 00) ; and finally dropped oui
of the race when Learing his 100th year.
If it hadn’t been for the thrice accursed
climate he might have got into the three
figures.
“Boro-Belle” : Bowen, with its natural har-
bor, is at last coming in for its own. The
first season’s output from the big Inkerman
sugar mill, at Ayr, estimated at 10,000 tons,
is to be sent by rail to Bowen for shipment
south. In addition, the Proserpine sugar-
some 7000 tons —generally lightered to Mac-
kay, will also be railed to Bowen for shipping
south. A huge sugar shed, capable of accom-
modating a week’s output from both fac-
tories, has been erected at Bowen. The
decision to ship the Inkerman sugar through
Bowen is largely due to the Government
having recently reduced the harbor dues there
from 2s. to Is. a ton, whereas the Townsville
dues are 2s. a ton. Incidentally, Bowen is
beginning to wake up. The town council
recently inspected the council’s works, and
the prospective improvements tabled include
a complete water service for the town, elec-
tric lighting, a band rotunda and motor ser-
vices to King’s and Queen’s beaches. A
promising adjacent coal seam further
adds to the prospects of the town that was
pushed aside years ago through the over-
powering influence of Townsville.
“Tooba” : Railways Minster Paget turned
the. first sod of the Drayton deviation the
other day, and Toowoomba rejoiced hugely
thereat. The line has quite an historical
interest. It was first agitated for 50 years
ago, and was the main factor in ejecting the
Philp party in 1903. John Leahy, then
Minister for Railways, turned the Drayton
deviation down, and Jim Tolmie, at the
behest of his enraged constituents, deserted
Philp, and, with several other malcontents,
crossed the floor and sat close up to Labor.
Philp, although not in a minority, resigned
a few days later—a step he afterwards
bitterly regretted. This affair was notable
as being the one solitary lapse into Rad-
icalism of..Tolmie’s political career. To do
him justice, he couldn’t helo it.
“Rangan” : Small country councils are very
seldom the theoretically all-for-the-good-of-
the-district bodies that they are supposed to
be, but the North Rockhampton Council is
an outsize in the line. For about six months
the only motion that had the least sign of
unanimity, and' that went" through without
any nasty remarks about - the . mental capa-
city of the members in general, was a want
HYDROPHOBIA.
SHORT-SIGHTED ORATOR : “Ah, my friends, I am glad you do not fear the rain. The
rain cannot hurt us till the fiend takes it and turns it into beer.”
SMALL SAY : “Stow it, Mister. They've all run to the pub fer shelter."
of confidence motion in the body itself, and
it accordingly asked the Home Secretary to
give it the sack. The Home Secretary
obliged, and the new council turned out to
be as bad as the other. The trouble, and it
is a common trouble, seemed to be that there
was only one mayoral chair and everybody
wanted it. However, when the new chair-
man took to court and had fined ten bob one
of the members for putting his feet on the
table or something, things quietened a little.
They broke out afresh a few weeks later,
when that member had his revenge by sitting
outside the door and poking faces at those
inside, who asked him to come in and make
a quorum. Now the ratepayers are en-
couraged to attend the goings-on by such
press notices as :
Ratepayers North Rockhampton. Roll up at the
Bear Garden, Tuesday night, Council Chambers, 8
p.m. Free.
The parable of the prophet “Errant” —-
N$W the people who dwell in the South said unto
their King: “Lord, there is a land in the North
that the worshippers of Buddha and Shinto envy.
Send thither a worthy man to get things ready for
our sons,, that they may people the empty spaces.”
And the King saw that it was good, and he said:
“Whom will we send?”
And one came saying. “Lord, I’ll go and prepare
a place for thy people’s sons.”
Then the King asked of him: “Canst thou govern a
country ?”
And he replied: “Verily, for I am a horse doctor.”
Then the King embraced him, saying: “You’re the
one; gather together men of the tribe of Offieialites
and their wives and take them with you.”
So he went and did even as the. King had told him.
When they came to the land in the North they
said one to another: “We’re on a good wicket.”
And the crock-mender, who was called Excellency,
said: “Gather men and build houses that we may
rest.”
And he gathered together the sons and daughters
of Binghi and of his wife Mary to be his men-servants
and his maid-servants; and the sons of Wun Lung
to prepare his venison.
And one came to him and said: “Master, give
me wdrk together with my wife in your household.”
But he mocked him, saying: “No hope,” arid he
sent him navVyiug on the road. And the Offieialites
did even as their master.
Then another came who said: “Is it lawful to em-
ploy the worshippers of Buddha ?” And they answered
him, “Yea.” “But,” he said, “doth not the com-
mandments say: ‘The white man shall inhabit- the
land’; also, ‘Blessed are the unionists’”? And they
stoned him, crying- “Socialist! Agitator!”
So he fled the land and came again to the South
and stirred the people up, saying: “The prad-fixer
and the Officialites whom we sent North do nothing.
Also they prefer Chow-mauled tucker.”
When the people heard this they were wrath,
gathering together in, the market places, crying.
“Sack the gee-gee mender! Give the vet the shoot!
Toss out the Officialites!”
But the King slumbered and heard them not.
When the Officialites and Shinto worshippers
learned this they embraced each other, saying:
“Banzai,” and they made merry.
And the Shinto men sent a messenger to their own
land, saying: “The time is nearly ripe.”
The Boys Along th’ Crick.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If l could only get back half the money I put
into this hole they could take the whole lot to-
morrow. It’ll break the heart of any man —-ask any
of the boys along th’ crick. —Remarks of pear-country
selector on the Wambo (Q.).
All along the wealthy Wambo, ’mid the bull-
oaks and belars
There’s a row of pine-built humpies rotting
roofless to the stars —
Just a chain of lost endeavor through the
land of pear and tick:
They were once the proud possessions of th’
Boys along th’ Crick.
There was Bill, fropi Hunter River, with his
little miner’s hoard ;
There was Salvo Tom, from Newtown, gladly
praising of the Lord ;
There was big Mick Burn, from Ascot, with
a wad of bank notes thick,
And a mob of knowing townies with the Boys
along th’ Crick.
There was joy on the selections when the
crowd first landed there;
When they gathered round of evenings they
would joke about the pear,
And each pigeon-chested owner would ex-
plain the easy trick
Of exterminating “prickly” to the Boys along
th’ Crick.
Now the terms were very easy—just a fifth
to clear each year.
“You can cut it soft and easy—you can do it
on your ear,”
So the Crown Lands Ranger told them; “set
to work and do it quick,
And you’ve got a fine selection all for ‘nix’
along th’ Crick !”
How they chopped the curse and skited for a
year or two or more,
Though their souls were full of prickles and
their hands were red and sore!
But they’d scratch their heads and wonder
when another cow fell sick,
And the cheques and sprees got scarcer with
the Boys along th’ Crick.
Oh, they chopped and squirted poison, and
they burnt and grubbed the weeds,
While the ’roos and cows and emus trotted
round and sowed the seeds;
Then they cursed the Pear Commission. “Let
’em come an’ try and lick
The united blanky efforts of us Boys along
th’ Crick !”
Then the cheerful Crown Lands Ranger
would call round and make remarks
Re that “fifth” they’d lightly scoffed at, and
they- listened to his barks,
Until Salvo Tom raised Sheol with Big Bill
and Tom and Mick,
And a mighty scared Crown Ranger galloped
madly down th’ Crick.
So by ones and twos they vanished, and the
pear grew over all
Till each lonely, rotting shanty had its prickly
strangling wall.
Now “a hundred fine selections” wait to work
the same old trick
On the next poor lot of chummies like the
Boys along th’ Crick.
QUEENSLAND.
JACKS.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane. April 2a. 1014.
My Dear Thargomindait,—
Brisbane is minus its most abundant
speech-producer, the Governor having, for
the greater part of the week, been sojourn-
ing iu the country up Toowoomba way.
While there he escorted Lady Mat
to the Hospital Ball. They were received
by the only unmarried mayoress I am
acquainted with, Miss Eugenie Boland. She
is not the really truly mayoress, but the
acting municipal hostess, and she is a bril-
liant success.
On Tuesday the St. George Society enter-
tained the Governor, and on Saturday he
accepted an invitation to be present at a
garden party given by Dr. and Mrs. Ilamlyn
Harris at Toowong. Dr. Harris is our
eminent local insect-examiner, and spends
most of his time in the Museum. Many an
insect would still be alive, and married, and
the father of a large family save for his in-
terference. .
Marriage is in the air here. Madge Wool-
cock, a daughter of lawyer W'oolcock, has
left the halls of her fathers (it’s time that
phrase had another airing) to manage the
establishment of Mr. Dinham-Peren. A
fruit farm and a hyphen were his most cher-
ished possessions until he made the last
addition to his worldly goods. The bride
has lots of friends, and St. Barnabas’ bulged
with inside pressure.
Elsie Maud, a daughter of ex-Premier
Philp, also joined the ranks of the “Mrs.”
clan, and became Henderson at the begin-
ning of the week. She is the second Philp
girl to marry a Henderson.
On Monday night a Bal Masque is to be
held in the South Brisbane Technical Col-
lege, but the Brisbane “season” is dull
compared with what it used to be. No one
seems to want to organise balls now, and
the rise in catering and all other expenses
has settled most of the sporting dances that
used to help to make life tolerable. The
tango had a flutter here, but died young. I
don’t think the Grundy woman approved of
it. !
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIAN JANE.
“Y.” : A fine growth Pugh’s Queensland
Almanack has made since it first appeared
as a trembling little sheet over half a cen-
tury: ago. It was then called the iUQRETON
Bay. Almanack, but grew rapidly to be a
hook, and is now a volume of all sorts of in-
formative matter. Pusrh brought the idea
with him from England. lie had been a
newspaper man there, and was acquainted
with the provincial sheets which collected
local facts. There was no money in-such a
venture when he unpacked it on Queensland,
so the young immigrant worked at any jour-
nalism offering, and out of the proceeds fed
his nursling. He sent news of Queens-
land happenings down to Parkes’s Empire
(SydneyL and contributed to the pages oi
Melbourne journals. lie was rather an un-
stable politician, but he succeeded in getting
into the Assembly for a part of Brisbane.
He joined party papers readily, and trans-
ferred himself to the opposite party papers
with equal readiness. The really strenuous
part of his mind went to the Almanack,
and the more time he gave it the louder it
squalled for increased attention. _At last
he dropped both journalism and politics ami
applied for something in the Government ser-
vice, where the salary would help to feed
the youngster. The job of police magistrate
was at that time about the easiest going, and
Theonhilis Pugh sat on the bench a few
hours a dav at Bundaberg or Rockhampton,
and rushed away—as soon as he had fined the
drunks and committed the horse-burglars for
trial—to his little library, where he elimin-
ated and added much to his bantling. The
work, now a limited company affair, repre-
sents Pugh’s life industry, for his other toil,
even the hurried trial and hanging-without-
the-option of the horse-incendiary, was a per-
functory sort of business.
«
The scarcity of bulldog breed among the
most gilded of the Great American people
these times can he perceived from the births,
engagements and marriages advts in any
issue of New York Herald. In the issue
of March 8 there are only nine births re-
corded, and the parents are Blum, Feldman.
Meyler, Selkowitz, Zander, etc. Even Mrs.
Lick, whose husband might be of English
descent, is described as “nee Hermina
Parian.” The long list of engagements
ranges from Bachrach-Singer to Werrnes-
Zsupnik, and the rest are Jewish, with
hardly an exception. The few marriages
begin with Amel-Hirsch and end with M eil-
Hess. But the Anglo-Saxon race scores a
few points in the Death notices, and comes
out quite strong among the In Memoriams.
The Jew names are in Sassiety and th--
British names in the cemetery.


ffv fi'
'V' 'l‘>'n',* . 1
SS ’I < .« ,A»#J
V ' .
figts
■ ■•
: 7 ..
■itf
w
Sr;
vfrqv'V;'V : .-
11!
ssit
( , <■ . „
jffjl
*
'
'••••• -
wS f
.
'
,V - '''•'■ -v .'•' ' ' ' _ • ■-V ■ -Of ; *«,;
■Hll
’ Jv^
■'vvv.
. : :
Sfc!
: yv;
mm
■; :
'
•■ :' ■ -
m
* ■• ••
■ '>
' ‘ : < ■ .y ■ •
. . ■' 'y ■ - " ; yyy ; : >•"
fl
wM
ilcsti
I
11l
8 '
MM
■
■H
w
!
.
\
IB
m
\
\
mm
mmeammam
mmm 11 Kft a
: :
SHngfl
*■■ ! yy,
rara
a y /-'' I,
WSBmm
■•*
:
• ’: ■
HBKffiittffc . *VA*2 d ,1 ** i
' ... •
J|| ,' j
. -5: % ■■ ■
IS # :
■■HH
*? :.'
11
4^r
■ *_ •
... ’ :
Qdol does more than cleanse and
beautify the teeth; it preserves them from
decay. ~~ ' '
Odoi refreshes the whole mouth to the point of exhilaration,
keeps the gums healthy and free from tenderness, and delightfully
perfumes the breath.
And by a remarkable property, peculiar to Gdol alone, it
permeates the lining membrane of the' entire oral cavity with its
protective antiseptic elements, leaving the mouth proof for hours
afterwards against the attacks of injurious bacteria, which, if not
carefully gwaickd against inevitably acsfoy the teeth,


Is Baby
strong ?
strong enough to resist
the coldness, dampness and
changing temperatures of
winter. If not, there are sure
to come coughs, colds, bron-
chitis, whooping cough,
measles or one of the many
childhood ailments. Don’t
run the risk; start giving
SCOTT’S Emulsion now.
Then, day by day, you will
see baby grow sturdy and
strong, with firm limbs, the
colour of health and all the
vigour of natural strength.
The restless nights of the
teething period are unknown
to the child that grows
strong and keeps strong on
scorn
Emulsion
1874
TRADE
Vi
1914
MARK
But, if you value baby’s
health, be sure to see the fish-
man on the package you buy.
is a means of administering to the brain and nerve
cells their natural food element (Lecithin in an
absolutely pure form). It is not a medicine, and
contains neither drug nor chemical —but builds up
the nervous system by the process of natural nutri-
tion.
It affords prompt relief in all forms of nerve
maladies, dyspepsia, anaemia, etc., and gives wonderful
results in cases of mental and physical overstrain
and exhaustion.
Antineurasthin restores the exhausted nervous
system by natural feeding Drugs and tonics destroy
by stimulating and deadening.
Antineurasthin is prepared in tablet form, pleasant
to the taste, and convenient to carry when travelling.
A FREE TRIAL SUPPLY
will be sent on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage by the Wholesale Agents, H. A. Goddard,
No. 3 Australasia Chambers, 406-14 Queen Street,
Brisbane; or branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82
Pitt Street, Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit Buildings,
Queen Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s Buildings,
Cliff Street, Fremantle; 213 Smeeton's Buildings,
Queen Street, Auckland.
Serial No. 810.—Guaranteed under the Pure
Foods Act of New South Wales, by 11. A. Goddard,
Sydney, to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure
Lecithin. No. 810.*
\
Italcum
POWDER
Don’t Throw
Away Your
Williams’
Talc. Tins.
Post four empty
tins (any odor)'
to the J. B.
Williams Co.,
Box 93, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and we
will send you
without charge
Williams’
m
exquisite Silver-
plated Vanity
Box, with
Powder
Pufr and
Concentra-
ting Mir-
i ror, exact-
ly like il-
lustration.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury liills of any of the Australian States or New
Zealand. S**AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.*
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C.,. Chairman ; The Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. j. Black,M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. E. Winchombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
Knox, Esq., K.C. ; Sir Alex. MacCormick, M.D. General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teece, F.1.A.,
F.F.A., F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Try
this !
Lift the outer walls of the nostrils as shown above Then inhale vigorously through the
nostrils Afterwards exhale, also through the nostrils. Do both, of course, while holding the
nostrils wide open The result will be nothing less than a surprising revelation of how the nasal
air-passages can be enabled to convey an increased supply of oxygen to the respiratory organs.
HAVE YOU GOT
CATARRH ?
if you have a dropping: of phlegm into the throat,
If your nose is stopped up,
if crusts form in your nose,
If you are easily susceptible to colds,
If you suffer from frontal headaches,
If you have noises in the head,
If your hearing is affected,
If you have to clear your throat & expectorate often,
If a change in the weather affects you,
If you are a victim to shortness of breath,
If you sneeze frequently,
If youir sense of smell is affected,
If you have a heavy, tired feeling on awaking:,
If you suffer from a husky throat,
If you are affected with any of the above symptoms,
the chances are that you are suffering from
Catarrh. It is an exceedingly dangerous com-
plaint, and is so insidious that the sufferer hardly
realises how serious is his or her condition until
matters have reached an almost chronic stage.
Catarrh often begins with a cold in the head, hut it never stops there.
The simple cold becomes a protracted one, while the discharge from the
nOB6 grows more profuse and uncomfortable.
The inflammation extends to the throat and bronchial tubes, causing
hoarseness, a tickling sensation, and an aggra\ating cough. The matter
that is co itinually dropping hack into the throat finds its way into the
stomach, resulting in a distressing form of dyspepsia, nausea, and of
appetite and strength.
The catarrhal poisons are absorbed into the blood, and all the membranes
of the body become infected, and what was supposed to be a purely local
disease has become constitutional, deep-seated, and chronic, and may
eventually result in Deafness, Bronchitis, Asthma, Neuritis, Catarrh of
the Stomach, or that dread scourge of the human race, Consumption.
A Sample Bottle of “ KAT-AR-AH ” INHALANT
Free to Sufferers .
“ Kat-ar-ah ” Treatment for Catarrh is based on scientific principles,
and aims at the curing of the trouble on an entirely new and logical
basis. I know it is right by personal expritnee—the best Catarrh
Remedy in existence, and I am ready to prove it to you. Hundreds
acknowledge its worth. No matter how many remedies you may have
tried do not consider your case hopeless until you have tried “Kat-ar-ah”
Treatment.
In order that you may prove the value of this Treatment to your own
satisfaction. I will supply you with a trial bottle of “ Kat-ar-ah ’’ Inhalant
FREE OF CHARGE. It will give immediate relief to the inflamed
membranes, clear the head, convey health-giving, purifying and germ-
destroying medicated air to the affected parts, and cleanse the nasal
passages of the accumulated mucous. 1 will also send ycu a copy of my
new and interesting booklet—“ Catarrh—its Cause, Symptoms and
Treatment.” Be sure to mention this paper when writing, give your
full name and address, and enclose 3d. in stamps to cover cost of postage.
Send to-day. The trial bottle will be sent by return mail. HERBERT
HERDER, 2 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Hunyadi Janos
Chronic Constipation is a common cause of anaemia, dyspepsia,
headache, mental trouble and many other ills.
For Chronic Constipation, Indigestion, Biliousness, Dyspepsia, Torpid
Liver, Piles and similar troubles, Nature has happiy furnished a
never failing remedy. A systematic course of Hunyadi Janos Natural
Aperient Water will effect a certain and most likely permanent cure.
To obtain lasting good results it is of course necessary to regulate
most carefully diet and other detail* of. daily life.
N
-
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MSS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Old Goulburnite: The story that the
break of railway gauge arose through the desire of
Victorians and South Australians to go one better
than N. S. Wales is ignorance, or premeditated lying.
The three States started with an agreement to adopt
the 4ft. SJin. gauge. N. S. Wales handed over its
railway job to Private Enterprise, and Private Enter-
prise presently hired an Irish engineer who clamored
for the Irish 5ft. 3in. gauge. N. S. AVales intimated
to tlie other States that it was going to be a liar or
a fraud or something, and was going to break the
agreement and make the gauge 5ft. 3in. The other
two States reluctantly fell into line. Later on N. S.
Wales (or Private Enterprise in N. S. Wales) went
back to the 4ft. 84in. measurement, and.that was the
beginning of the break-of-gauge trouble. Seeing that
Private Enterprise presently went broke and left its
unfinished lines on the State’s doorstep, it was a pity
that the shoddy creature was allowed to make so
much annoyance. ... Boorara: “H. Singemoinc’s” week
with Jimmy Tyson occurred on shipboard between
Westralia and Melbourne. He doesn’t know whether or
no James ever visited England. It is possible that
he bought his clothes at a large Sydney emporium;
all lie is certain about is that they were bad and old
and insanitary-looking whenever they (the clothes)
crossed his (“Singemoine’s”) path... .Clarence B.:
Jacomb’s vogue is over. As a subject of local interest
he lias done his dash....The Satyr: Hardly any use
sending in gags that appeared in The Bulletin in the
days when the world was young.... Norfolk Island:
Not worth print.... S.: If you type your copy so
closely, so help us . But let us be calm. . . .
Wallaby: A list of aboriginal names and meanings
has been running through The Lone Hand since
February... .A.E.D.: No. A miner’s right is neces-
sary. .. .R. McL. (Q.) : Never heard of that co.
There is a British India Steam Navigation Co. Burns,
Philp are the agents B.V.M.: It won’t do
A.F.H.. Move on. .. .C.E.B.: That performer is too
dead now....B.’s Understudy: You are not, and never
will be....H.F.W.: Unconvincing... .M.C.: Tho-
roughly unsatisfactory. A story outline with the
story left out. . . . Jas. P. McE.: Too heavy. . . .Ian
S. (V.) : They’re just a bit young... .Joe L.: It’s a
taking fragment:—
I love a girl of the feminine gender!
Me? Why not! The old bellows-mender!
Next year we’ll marry, as likely as not.
(She thinks shell reform me I Oh, she knows a loti
I won’t give up drinkin’. .. .Hey! bring me a pot!)
....Spagoni: Neither, you Dago! Jas. L. M.:
Burnt. . . .A.J.N.: Try something in prose. .. .Irma
(Brisbane): “I submit the following verses for your
paper, if you think they are worthy. None of the
verses are original, having taken them from London
Opinion.” The deuce you did! It’s just as well you
mentioned it, Irma, otherwise we might have printed
them above your name. Please understand that the
verses of London Opinion or any other paper are
regarded here as private property, just as meat and
drapery and fancy goods are. You wouldn’t lift a
sheep off a butcher’s hooks or pirate a roll of cloth.
Why, then, does your conscience leave off when it
comes to lifting literary merchandise? A certain
amount of friendly borrowing (with acknowledg-
ment) is permitted or tolerated ; but if we once
started buving each other’s back numbers at so much
per inch from gentle third parties like yourself, some-
thing would have to burst. It would be very gay
for the third party while it lasted, but something
would have to burst eventually. Most probably it
would be the third party—-or, perhans, third pirate
would be a better term.... Homo: We’ll do without
it. . ..HUB,: Not up Ernest F.: Get to sea again.
, .. .Cymcus: Take your metrical cockroaches out
arid fire them....S. Ban: A rather dreary produc-
tion. . . . G.E.B. : You’ll make nothing fly here while
you write with faint ink A.F.IL (M.L ) : Tom
might have been the joy of the camp, but we can’t
publish his obituary or the other items. .. .Will F.:
If you stay on the Inky Way you will be rum over.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Otto: Not utterly bad, but it’s no use here. The
theatrical cartoons are regularly attended to Tom
R : She s a nice girl, and she seems to be sleeping
well on the bosom of the deep, but we have no use
for her or the attached remarks, which appear to
resemble poetry Hansen. Never had a lesson?
Well, you want them badly enough.... Beverley S.:
The chances are that the rational-dress joke origin-
ated about 1894. The drawing belongs to the Stone
Age....G.D. (V.): It’s half-baked art....Tom G.
fM.L.) : Not sufficient interest. ... II. C.: It’s a weak
jest. .. .H.B.R.: Decrepit gag and dreadfully wooden
drawing.... Roy R : Refuse to have anything to do
with that Dago. For one thing, he’s too flat....
Rob S.: Forced humor attached to a fairly respect-
able drawing.
“H.O.”: Are prominent Americans given
half a dozen low-comedy names at birth, or
do they adopt the dreadful appellations when
on in years? The solution of this mystery
has an important bearing on the increase,
or otherwise, of imbecility in the U.S. All
Yankee poems are by persons with names
such as Richard Edward Kendrick Le Tripe-
hound, W. Henry Hoffman Van-Bosh, and so
on. A Really High-Class American maga-
zine is full of inspiring contributions like
the following:—
THE TRAGIC CHILD.
By Mary Martha Wheeler-Wagstaff.
She was a babe,
Come fresh from God,
But, oh ! her eyes were sad !
Just that and nothing more. Its justifica-
tion is the fact that it is by Mary Martha
etc. And then there are the Christian names
of the incredibly haughty and aristocratic
members in the N’York Four Hundred. I
read, a while back, a chapter of what was
claimed by the magazine that published it to
be “the greatest novel of social life in
America ever written.” The heroine’s name
was Persis. Another female character was
called Gail. Brise, Flaught, Pantar and
Ilisposack were some of the girls’ names in
another publication of the same sort. Senna,
Coma,tose and Mobiloil were missing. An
oversight doubtless. The psychological ex-
planation of America’s demented nomen-
clature is, I fancy, the Great Republic’s un-
satisfied yearning for persons of titular dis-
tinction. The average Yankee —be he a
Wall-street magnate or a mere magazine-
devouring dry-goods store clerk —is vastly
inspired by persons with handles to their
names. He is more inspired than the Eng-
lishman,. who constantly sees hundreds of
such people, and far more so than the
Frenchman, who sees thousands weekly, if
not daily. As. his Constitution doesn’t allow
for such social luxuries as Lady Anna
Gould, the Earl of Chicago, Marquess Rocke-
feller and the like, we get Bloore van Wil-
loughby-Floot, Bricke Hyde-Swan-Schuyter
and similar monstrosities. They fulfil more
or less, what, after all, is the main object of
a title; that is to say, they suggest wealth
and importance. Few obscure and indigent
persons would dare answer to such jaw-
dislocating labels.


The Royal Bank of Australia
LIMITED.
MEAD OFFICE : Melbourne, Victoria.
FIFTY-SECOND REPORT.
Presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting on April 29, 1914.
The Diiectors have pleasure in submitting to Shareholders the annexed Balance-sheet and Statement of
Accounts for the Half-year ending March 31, duly audited and certified.
The ret profits (including £6096 4s. 3d. brought from last half-year) amount to .. £29,164 18 6
which it is proposed to deal with as follows, viz.:—
To pay a dividend at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum .. .. .. .. £l2 000 0 0
Transfer to Reserve Fund (making it £210,000) .. .. .. .. .. .. lo’oOO 0 0
And to carry forward the balance .. .. .. .. .. . . ’ ’ \ \ 7,164 18 6
£29,164 18 6
The Bank’s large and growing business in London has been well managed and attended to by the Com-
p nk of Scotland Ltd., but your directors consider that the time has now arrived for the establish-
. jjji ® , our own branch there, anil Mr. Wilson, the General Manager, is at present on his way to London
io complete all necessary arrangements in connection therewith.
By order of the Board,
A- ADAMSON LAING, Acting General Manager.
DA LANCE-SHEET OF
THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED,
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDING MARCH 31, 1914.
Dr.
CAPITAL, AND LIABILITIES.
To Capital Authorised —
600,000 shares
of £4 each £2,400,000 0 0
To Capital Subscribed—
-300,000 shares
of £4 each £1,200,000 0 0
lo Capital paid-up £300,000 0 0
„ Reserve Fund 200,000 0 0
~ Profit and Loss
Account . . 29,164 13 6
~ Notes in circulation
» Bills in circulation
To Government Deposits—
Not bearing
interest .. £39,929 1 8
Bearing in-
terest . . 442,702 18 2
lo Other Deposits—Rebate and
Interest Accrued—
Not bearing
interest .. £793,500 13 11
Bearing in-
terest .. 1,049,046 16 9
„ Balances due to other banks . .
£529,164 18 6
1,103 0 0
58,602 6 1
482,631 19 10
1,842,607 10 8
720 5 5
~ Contingent liabilities as
contra
£2,914,880 0 6
per
640,730 0 0
£3,555,610 0 6 I
ASSETS.
By Coin, bullion,
Australian notes
and cash at
bankers ..£701,280 7
~ Notes and bills
of other banks 815 15
„ Balances due
from other
barks . .
Bills and re-
mittances in
transit and
payable in
London
Gov ernment,
municipal and
other public
stocks, deben-
tuies and funds
Stamps
17,215 16
377,676 19
73,660 0
566 5
7
0
0
£1,261,233 4
~ Ileal Estate, consisting of—
Bank premises 60,000 0
~ Bills discounted and other ad-
vances, exclusive of provision for
bad and doubtful debts . . 1,500,681 16
~ Bank furniture, fittings, sta-
tionery, etc :.. 2,965 0
3
0
0
£2,914,880 0 6
Liabilities and securities of cus-
tomers and others in respect of
contingent liabilities as per
contra .. .. ~ . . 640,730 0 0
£3,555,610 0 6
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries,
taxis anil
~ Balance
rent, income and land
other charges .. ..£14,351 0 7
29,101 13 0
£43,516 5 1
By Balance at September 30, 1913 .. £28,090 4 3
Lets dividend de-
clared October 29,
1918 •• ..£12,000 0 0
Transferred to Reserve
Fund .. .. 10,000 0 0
• 22,000 0 0
By Balance carried down . . .. 6 096 4 3
„ Profits for the half-year after de-
ducting' interest accrued on deposits
and rebate on bills current, less
reserves for bad and doubtful debts 37,420 0 10
£43,516 5 1
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance ..£200,000 0 0
£200,000 0 0
By Balance at September 30, 1913..
„ Transfer l'rcm Profit and Loss
Account
£190,000 0 0
10,000 0 0
£200,000 0 0
“Dudley” Accordeons
I
&
NO. 1 DUDLEY ACCORDEON,
81in. x Mahogany-stained Mould-
ings, 2 Sets lteeds, 10 Nickel Keys
and Pallets, 2 Bass Stops, 8-fold
double Bellows, Nickel corners. in .
Post Free,
tt
Bess o’ th’
O'D O O.
•Mw
Mouth Organs
The full tone and accurate tune of
“Bess o’ th’ Bam” Mouth Organs
place them above all other makes.
The Concert Artist Model, with 20
Reeds, Nickel Mouthplate and .Metal
Case, - —— post iree. 9/
—Other Models, 1/-, 1/6, 3/-. £/*
WRITE FOR LISTS,
Musical Instruments of All Kinds.
A. P. SYKES,
272 Little Collins slreet,
MELBOURNE. ,
two wj f'j tun.
TWIIIE Best Stories written
n noear in The Lone llan
Brice. Gd.
in Australia
t> each month.
£100(k£1000
Work of Art. Work of Art.
First Great Prize, Value £5OO
or Twelve Months’ Trip Round the World and
£lOO in Cash for ONE PERSON,
or Eight Months for Iwu.
Note. —The Committee, having paid full
value for the work of art, is prepared to find
a purchaser for same at the advertised
amount if the winner so desires, also for the
Second and Third Prizes.
Second, Value £lOO.
Third, Value £5O.
And 97 other Priz2s, totalling £lOOO.
Eight Hours
Great Art Union
58th Year —Oldest and Most Popular—
-sSth Year.
Proceeds in Aid of the Hospitals and
P.iiJic Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners free of
all charges. .V list of winning numbers will
he posted to any person an sending an ad-
dressed envelope to the representative, with
stamp unaffixed.
Buy from your Local Agent on or before
2nd May,. or send Postal Note, P. 0.0., or
stamps with Exchange added, direct to the
representative, 165 Flinders-lane, Melbourne,
at once for tickets, and secure a chance in
this great Art Union, 22 for £l, 11 for 10s.,
or Is. each.
All direct applications must reach Melbourne
before the date of drawing, 19th May, 1914.
Lest You Forget, Buy To-day
PAGES FOB EVEIIYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
The Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited.
The Forty-Second Report of the Directors of 'The Colonial Sank of Australasia Limited,
To be Presented to the Sharehi lders at the Forty-second Ordinary General Meeting, to be held at the
Bank, 12G Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, at Noon on Tuesday, 28tli April, 1914.
REPORT.
The Directors beg to submit to the Shareholders their Forty-second Report, with a Balance-sheet and
Statement of Profit and Loss for the Half-year ended 31st March, 1914, duly audited.
After providing for Expenses of Management, Interest Accrued on Deposits, Rebate on Bills Current,
Tax on Note Circulation, Income Tax, Land Taxes, and making provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts,
the net profit amounted to .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . £29,230 7 4
Brought forward from 30th September, 1913 ' 6,029 13 11
Which the Directors propose to apportion as follows, viz.:—
Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum on Preference Shares
Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum on Ordinary Shares
To Reserve Fund (making it £220,000) . .
To Reduction of Bank Premises
To Officers’ Provident Fund
Balance carried forward . . . . . .
£35,860 1 3
. . £10,641 10 9
4,733 5 6
. . 10,000 0 0
5,000 0 O
1,000 0 0
4,485 5 0
£35,850 1 3
The Dividend will be payable at the Head Office on and after the 29th April, and at the Branches on
receipt of advice.
The Forty-second Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders will be held at the Head Office of the
Company, 126 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, on Tuesday, the 28th day of April, 1914, at noon.
By order of the Board.
Moll orrnc. 15th .'WH, 1914. SELBY PAXTON. General Manager.
BALANCE-SHEET OP '1 HE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDING 31st MARCH, 1914.
Dr. ________ (Including London Office to 28th February, 1914). Cr.
To Capital paid-up, viz.:—•
31,184 preference
shares paid in
cash '.o £9/15/-
per share ..£304,011 0 0
77,278 ordinary
shares paid in
cash to £l/15/-
per share .. 135,236 10 0
£439,280 10 0
~ Deserve Fund .. 220,000 0 0
~ Profit and Loss. 20,860 1 3
-£080,140 11 3
~ Notes in circulation . . . . 20,163 0 0
„ Bills in circulation . . . . 386,067 5 0
„ Balances due to other banks . . 6,912 13 7
~ Government De-
posits—
Not bearing interest,
£45,210/17/1;
bearing interest,
£375,495/17/8 £420,706 14 9
~ Other Deposits,
rebate and in-
terest accrued —
Not bearing inter-
est, £1,678,576/
16/8; bearing
interest
£1,927,041/18/4 3,605,018 15 0
4,026,325 9 9
£5,119,608 19 7
~ Contingent lia-
bilities, as per
contra .. -c 207.690 9 1
By com, bullion,
A u s t r aliun
note s, and
cash at bank-
ers, £774,457
13/1 ; b y
money at call
and short
notice in Lon-
don, £365,000 £ 1,139,457 13 1
~ British Con-
sols, £70,66.3
15/2 at £74
per cent.,
£52,294/17/7
by Victoria
Gov eminent
stock and
d eb e ntures,
Metropolitan
Board of
Works and
municipal de-
bentures,
£55,265/10/4
„ Bills and re-
mittances in
transitu and
in London ..
„ Notes and
bills of other
banks
„ Balances due
from other
banks
„ Stamps
107,560 7 11
800,821 13 4
2,529 0 0
27,013 16 7
1,405 0 7
„ Real Estate, consisting of —
Bank premises .. ..
„ Other real estate
„ Bills discounted and other ad-
vances. exclusive of provision
for bad or doubtful debts
£2,078,787 11
187,361 8
8,244 13
2,845,215 7
6
0
0
1
Liabilities of
customers and
others in re-
spect of con-
tingent liabil-
ities as per
contra .. £207.690
£5,119,603 19 7
9 1
PROFIT AI\D LO'S ACCOUNT.
current expenses (including
salaries, rents, repairs, stationery.
&c.)
Note, income and land taxes . .
Transfer to resrve fund
Transfer to bank premises
Balance . .
£37,150 11 r,
1,942 3 11
10,000 0 0
5,000 0 0
20,860 1 3
£74.952 16 7
By Balance brought forward .. .. £6,623 13 11
„ Gross profits for the half-year,
after allowing for interest accrued
on- deposits, rebate on bills cur-
rent, and making provision for
bad and doubtful debts .. .. 68,323 2 8
£74.952 16 7
reserve fund account.
To Balance £.220,000 0 0
£220,000 0 0
By Balance brought forward .. £210,000 0 0
„ Transfer from Profit and Loss .. 10,000 0 0
£220.000 0 0
The Most Glorious
VoicesintheWorM
are reproduced in the most realistic manner on
“His Master’s Voice” Records. No matter how
many records you possess, or what your -particular
fancy may call for, the addition of a jfew celebrity
records would be a source of real delight to your-
self and your friends.
John McCormack
“ His Master’s Voice ”
CELEBRITY Records
include all the great masterpieces of opera, ahd song. Such notable singers
as Melba, Caruso, McCormack, Scotti, Farrar, Tetrazzini, Kirkby Lunn,
Clara Butt, Chaliapine, Buffo, and many others are included in the list.
You can bring the fascinating music and song of Grand Opera into your own
home by possessing the records of such famous singers.
Becord Lists, Instrument Catalogue, and name of nearest accredited dealer
on request.
Sole Concessionaires for
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
m
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of "Hop’s” best drawings. Full
I ‘XJi.letin size. Price, 21s.


Public Notice.
THE PATENTEE of Australian patent No. 2092,
1 dated 22nd August, 1910 (J. Stone & Company
I.imited and William Steel Parsons) for “Improve-
ments in apparatus for discharging or ejecting
ashes, clinkers or other refuse,’’ is prepared to enter
into negotiation for and to complete arrangements
by way of license or otherwise on reasonable terms
with any persons desiring to exploit or to adopt
and carry on such invention in Australia. Inquiries
to be addressed to W. J. SPRUSON, Patent Attorney,
91 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New South Wales.*
Legal Notices.
PURSUANT to an Order of the
Chancery Division of the High
Court of Justice made in the matter of the
estate of Robert Townsend Hippisley de-
ceased Hippisley v. Hippisley 1912 H. 1515
and dated the 12th October 1912 the follow-
ing inquiry is directed, viz.: An inquiry
whether CHARLES ERNEST HIPPISLEY
named in the will of Robert Townsend Hip-
pisley is living or dead and if dead when he
died and whether he left any and what will
and whether he was ever married and if so
when and to whom and whether there were
any children of the said marriage and who
are his legal personal representatives.
Notice is hereby given that the said
Charles Ernest Hippisley and all persons
claiming through or by descent from him
are personally or by their solicitors on or
before the 4th day of July 1914 to come in
and prove their claims at the Chambers of
Mr. Justice Joyce and Mr. Justice Eve,
Room 692 Royal Courts of Justice, Strand,
London. England, or in default thereof they
will be peremptorily excluded from the bene-
fit of the said order. Wednesday the 15th
day of July 1914 at half-past two in the
afternoon at the said Chambers is appointed
for hearing and adjudicating upon the
claims. Dated the 15th day of December
1913. —A KEEN, Master of the Supreme
Court.
ROBBINS, OLIVEY & LAKE,
218 Strand, London, W.C.,
For ABBOT. POPE & ABBOT,
Bristol,
Solicitors for the Plaintiffs.
Note.—The above-named Charles Ernest
Hippisley who was a son of the testator
Robert Townsend Hippisley a solicitor of
Bristol England is now if alive about 51
years of age. He went to Australia in Feb-
ruary 1889 and was there employed by
Messrs. Robert Reid & Co., and afterwards
till May 1897 by Messrs. Sands & McDougall
(Limited). He resided at Rochester Lodge,
Collins-place, Melbourne. He left Mel-
bourne in May, 1897. by the Orient Steam-
ship Orizaba for London, where he stayed
one or two months, and is believed to have
resided at 123 Fulham-road, London. In
October. 1897, he left London, and until
April, 1898, was employed by Messrs. J.
Garlick & Co., of Alderley-street, Cape
Town, South Africa, and resided at 43 St.
•Tohn-street. Cape Town. He returned to
Melbourne in 1898, and expressed his inten-
tion of going to Queensland or Sydney. He
is alleged to have been seen in London by an
old schoolfellow in 1908.
Should the above advertisement, which
has reference to benefits accruing to him
under his father’s will, meet the eye of the
said Charles Ernest Hippisley, or in the
event of his death that of his widow or
children, lie is (or they are) earnestly re-
quested to communicate with the least pos-
sible delay with his brother Alfred Edward
Hippisley. of 8 Herbert-crescent. London,
S.W.. or with the said Messrs. Abbot, Pope
& Abbot, solicitors. Bristol.
The finishing touch.
SJLI L'»
•or-
s-.a l ’
C ••
THE
"KALODERMA"
preparations are the most perfect of Toilet
Requisites.
"KALODERMA"
Soap. Prepared with G 1 y cerine and Honey.
Luxurious and refreshing. The best Soap for
Softening and Beautifying the complexion.
"KALODERMA"
Face Powder. Unequalled for the Toilet.
Refined and soothing. Can be had in Pink,
White or Cream.
r t
KALODERMA"
Jelly, makes and keeps the complexion as pure
as the Lily. A most lovely Skin Emollient.
Absolutely free from Grease.
"KALODERMA"
Is obtainable at all the Leading Establishments.
F. WOLFF & SOHN
KARLSRUHF- Germany and LONDON.
Amusements.
Rickards* tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
Commencing on Sat.: The SIX CAMERONS, “At the
Carnival.’’ The ELLIOTT SAVONAS, in their Palace
of Orpheus. W. C. FIELDS, the Silent Humorist.
SAM STERN, “An Entertainer.” That’s all. Com-
mencing on Monday: ED. E. FORD. THE SHEN-
TONS, in a Vocal and Dancing Scena. Mddle. MAR-
GUERITE & FRANK GILL, Tangoists. MARSHALL
CROSBY. And a Great Company of Established
Favorites. PRICES: 5/-, 4/-, 3/- and 1/-.
TIVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
1 Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
ADA REEVE, the Queen of Vaudeville.
TUCKER, the Singing Violinist.
GILDAY & FOX, Hebrew Delineators.
“THE TWO BOBS,” a Rag or two, a Song or two,
a laugh or two, by a Bob or two.
RUSSELL CARR, Ventriloquist.
VERA ROCHDALE, France’s Petite Soubrette.
Plan at Minn’s. fflg-PRICES—4s- 35., 2s„ Is,
ARTISTS APPEARING AT
TIVOLI theatre, ADELAIDE
1 THIS WEEK.
DOLOItE’S VALLECITAS Group of Indian Leopards.
GOLDEN ATHLONES, in Postures, Plastiques.
THE CREOS, Continental Acrobats.
ROYAL QUARTETTE. JACK SHIELDS.
VIVATE & VIVANTI. TWO PIIIDLINERS.
T I V ° L I T HEAT R E, PERT H.
■ HARRY RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JOSEPHINE DAVIS.
TALLEUR & READE.
TALLEUR ANDREWS, the Mating Idol.
BARTON & ASHLEY, in “Money Talks.”
ROSE & ELLIS.
GRAUS BROTHERS. ROMANO BROS.
BIOSCOPE.
PRICES: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. NO EXTRA FEES.
U E R MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., have much pleasure in
presenting their STUPENDOUS PANTOMIME
EXTRAVAGANA, which this year is based upon the
attractive story of
THE FORTY THIEVES.
Written by Frank Dix. Music by Andrew MacCunn.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
AI*ELI* II I T HEAT R IS. SYI) N E Y
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY. LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE TENDERFOOT.
SATURDAY, MAY 2.
WILLOUGHBY’S AMERICAN MUSICAL
COMEDY CO. in another brilliant musical comedy,
THE MAYOii OE TOKIO.
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-
P
Plan at Nicholson'
ALA C IS TJIISA T It IS. SVI.N I, ,
Direction ALLEN DOONE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF MOLLY BAWN.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 2.
ALLEN DOONE
will present a revival of Dion Boucicault’s famous
Play,
THE COLLEEN BAWN.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales, White Ros<
N ATIONAL AMPHITHEATRE, SYDNEY
Governing Director: BEN J FULLED
FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE CIRCUIT.
EVERY NIGHT, AT 8
THE ROYAL BANZAI FAMILY of Japanese
Entertainers.
HILARY LONG, Up-side-down Arti«f
TRI() \ BENTZEN & LAWTON.
THE Iv-NUTS. LEONARD & WILLARD
FERNANDISZ & MAY. FERN & LIZETTE.
[ RICES as usual. Plan at Theatr
T UITT I, IS ThE A T R
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
MATINEE, THURSDAY, 2 p.m.
MR. HUGH BUCKLER and MISS VIOLET PAGE
Present that Diverting Comedy
by Sir ARTHUR. W,-PINERO,
THE GAY LORD QUEX.
Box Plan at Paling’s, Day Sale at White Rose.
"T IMPERIAL SALON DE LUXI
FASHIONABLE DANCING.
.... FOOT OF WILLIAM STREET:
Direction . BENDRODT & IRVIN
Jas. C. Bendrodt, Man. Director.
Geo. C. Irving, Gen. Manager.
DANCING EVERY EVENING, 8 to 11
ADMISSION, TWO SHILLINGS
SPECTATORS’ ADMISSION. ONE SHILLING
EVERY SATURDAY AFTERNOON
SPECIAL SESSION, 2.30 to 5 p.m
ADMISSION, TWO SHILLINGS.
„ TANGO TEAS,
EVERY TUESDAY AND FRIDAY AFTERNOON
4 p.m. to 6 p.m.,
. ADMISSION, THREE SHILLINGS
TFAS ST t S tl? S q V V I find ;' ni<lue advantage in holdin
a* i S i. lIo 'l; Tea 1S served, and expert
provided to teach all guests in the latest dances fc
the Initial Entrance Fee. TABLES may be booke
by telephone.
llru SPECIAL practice sessions,
When we Teach Dancing. Moderate Tuition Fees, 2/
per lesson,
MONDAY, WEDNESDAY, AND THURSDAY AFTER
NOONS ONLY.
ADMISSION, ONE SHILLING. Time 4 to 6 p.n:
BALLROOM DANCING predominating in every Pro
gramme. Evening Dress not. essential at any session
OPEN TWICE DAILY.
EVERY AFTERNOON and EVERY EVENING.
4 to 6 p.m. 8 to 11 p.m.
’Phone. 682 Wm. St.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
THE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES
1 In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL. EMPRESS
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showinj
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD
W. Baruington Miller, General Manager.
QLACIARIUM ANI) OLYMPIA. SYDNEY
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD
“HEST OF ALE.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICEREGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plans at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fe<
§ PEN C E It’S LYCEU M, Gn N E
THE WORLD’S BEST PICTURE
EVERY .EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE—WEDNESDAY, AT 2.30.
A GREAT PROGRAMME, consisting of TOPICA
DRAMATIC, SCENIC and COMEDY SUBJECTS.
Prices: 1/6, 1/- & 6d. Plan at Paling’s & White Ro
Amusements.
J
WIRTH BROTHERS’ CIRCUS, LIMITED,
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
LOCATION: PRINCE ALFRED PARK.
A MAMMOTH PROGRAMME OF FEATURE ACTS.
OUR 1914 ATTRACTIONS THE BEST YET.
WIRTHS’ FAMOUS MENAGERIE,
NOW BIGGER AND BETTER THAN EVER.
Plans at Paling’s, Hotel Australia & Hotel Sydney.
Admission to Combined Shows: ss. (Reserved
Chairs), 45., 35.; Gallery, 2s. One ticket admits to
everything. Matinees Wednesdays and Saturdays.
Children under 10. half-price to all Matinees.
This BIG CIRCUS, with all the latest English,
Continental and American Show Artists, will visit
all the Country Districts of N.S.W., beginning their
Country Tour at Wollongong, on Monday, May 11.
|T LLA CASPERS. ELLA CASPERS.
GRAND OPENING CONCERT OF
THE AUSTRALIAN SEASON.
SYDNEY TOWN HALL,
THURSDAY, 7th MAY, 1914, at 8 p.m.
With TOAVN HALL MATINEE, SATURDAY, 9th MAY.
The great Australian-born Contralto will be assisted
by the following well-known Artists: —
Miss LILIAN FROST (Organist) : Signor GUILIO
MART [NELLI (dramatic tenor —first appearance) ;
Herr RAIMUND PECIIOTSCH (violinist—reappear-
ance after 9 years) ; Mr. JOHN CARLTON FAY (solo
pianist) ; Miss AGNES CASPERS (accompanist).
ADMISSION, 7/6 and 5/- (reserved seats), 3/-, 2/-
and a limited number of 1/- tickets.
Box Plan opens Paling’s, Saturday, 2nd May,
at 9.30 a.m.
Direction—PHlLLlP E. POTTS,
C/o W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd.
II E EVENT O E 1914.
VLit of
MISS ELLEN TERRY.
SHAKESPEARIAN DISCOURSES WITH
ILLUSTRATIVE ACTING.
Supported by ' other ' Distinguished Artists.
MELBOURNE, MAY 7, 9 and 11-
TOWN HALL.
SYDNEY, MAY 14, 16, 18-
TOWN HALL.
BRISBANE, MAY 21, 23-
EXHIBITION.
NEW ZEALAND TO FOLLOW.
THE LONDON ENTERTAINMENTS’
SYNDICATE.
Direction: JOSEPH BLASCHECK.
M. J. BLOOMFIELD,
Manager.
EDWARB BRANSCOMBE’S
SIX COMPANIES OF
' DA N D IE S
Appear Nightly at
EDEN GARDENS, MANLY.
CREMORNE GARDENS, BRISBANE.
ESPLANADE, ST. KILDA.
EXHIBITION GARDENS, ADELAIDE.
OLYMPIA, PERTH.
CORONATION HALL, BONDI JUNCTION.
"THE KING’S THEATRE. MEG BOURNE.
* Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
First Appearance of the BERT BAILEY Combination
in the- American Comedy-Drama,
WHAT HAPPENED TO MARY.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Direction ‘ J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
First Production in Melbourne of the Popular
REVUE,
COME OVER HERE.
pur, Minr.’ g Prices: 65,, 45., 2s. and Is.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
First Australian Production of the Sensational Drama,
MADAME X.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; Gallery. 2Plan at Allan’s.
HALL, MELBOURNE.
POSITIVELY LAST RECITALS.
IN MELBOURNE OF
MR. ALEXANDER WATSON,
The Most Popular Entertainer who has ever visited
Australia.
TO-NIGHT, 30th PAOLO & FRANCESCA
FRIDAY, Ist MAY RICHARD 11.
SATURDAY, 2nd . . KIPLING, DICKENS, BARRIE
MONDAY, 4th ;. MERCHANT OF VENICE
ADELAIDE SEASON BEGINS 6th JUNE.
SYDNEY SEASON BEGINS '2sth JUNE.
NEW ZEALAND SEASON BEGINS 22nd JULY.
• -j CARLYLE SMYTHE.
OLYMPIA. O L Y M P I A.
I. Y M P I A. 31 EL BOURNE.
(Just across Princes. Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE Sl2liN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
m lIE Best Stories written by Australian
X Writers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price, 6d. monthly.
Amu semen ts.
sr:
J . & N . T A I T
announce the
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND TOUR OF
iLAKKY LAUD Eli.
Melbourne, Princess’s Theatre, NOW APPEARING.
Adelaide, commencing MAY 16.
Sydney, commencing MAY 30.
Brisbane, commencing JULY 6.
Auckland, commencing JULY 20.
Wellington, commencing JULY 27.
Christchurch,' commencing AUGUST 3.
Dunedin, commencing AUGUST 19.
Harry. Lauder in Melbourne has. achieved the most
remarkable triumph in the amusement history o!
Australia.
Uli: S T’S PALACE. M ELIiOUK NK.
" best WEST’S PICTURES XH fi besi
OP ALL LIMITED. OF ALL
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. MatinGes Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2730.
The Greatest Pictorial Enteuimusi! in the Would.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Anv Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen
at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
Birch & c a k k o l l
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
ITr A ., Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRTSB \NF..
CHALLENGE.
MURPHY CHALLENGES THE WOULD
TO CURE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL
BLEEDING PILES.
Permanent Cure. Established 1891.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS, NON-
APERIENT,
have cured thousands of cases, some after
suffering over 40' years.
Made and Sold by
ANDREW MURPHY, WOY WOY,
N.S.W., Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, or a Course of 8
boxes £l. All postage free.
On Sale by all Druggists, Chemists and Store-
keepers throughout the States.
WRITING to the agent
entrusted with the
pui chasing of the
stores for the forihcoming
Imperial Tran=-Antarctic
Expedition Sir Ernest
Shackleton uses these
words:—
“The question
of the concen-
trated beef sup-
ply is most im-
portant—
it must be
Bovril.”
Menwhotrust
their lives 'o
their food take
no risks, and Sir
Krn st Shackle-
ton, planning
til's expedition
with as animate
a knowledge of
stores as of ice
and snow, has
recognised the
scien t if i cally
proved value of
Bovril.
5 v
<\f /
L
B*
SS
bH
Vj
rn HE Best Stories written in Australia
_£ appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price 6d.
In the
morning
it is such an easy matter to get
your teeth ready to be seen,
when you use <- -
Calvert’s
dKolli Powder
and of course, the same
thorough antiseptic cleansing
is just as necessary
again at night.
Sol I by local Chemists and Slot e<- j
Made by
x lCc. CA LI’EK T CO. ,
■MANCHEC. EE,
Eng.


BLISTERS ALL OVER
BODY AND FACE
Also Hands and Feet. Would Scream
When Touched. Could Not Sleep.
Used Cuticura Soap and Dint*
ment. Sores Disappeared*
* —.
Gaihbridge St., i?bhshurst, N; §. W.—
11 When iiiy baby Was bnly a Week bid he
came blit ih big whitfe ihattery blisters all over
his body, tacte, hinds and feet, in fact he was
bhe faiasS bf blistferS. They Wbuld break
arid gb intd sores, and I fcoiiid hot bathe
hini. Mb Would scream when t touched
fcherii. He bduld hot sleep night br day. i
Was just Wbrh out With hith, so I tdok hind
td a chemist, whb gavb hae bintihent, but it
did not do him any good. A friend got me
to try Cuticura Soap and Cuticura bint-
tnent, and I was pleased tb see When I had
bathed hirh With Cuticura Soap and applied
Cuticura bintmbnt for two days they began
to dry Up. Me seemed to get relief from the
first tiihe I used them, as he would sleep.
They seenled to soothe him, and by the
time I had used two cakes of Cuticura Soap
and some Cuticura Ointment the sores had
all disappeared and never even left a mark
on him.
“I may also tell you of my eldest girl
who got a cut on her nose, from which she
suffered for about four months. I bought
some Cuticura Ointment and by the time I
had used half a tin it was healed.” (Signed)
J. Lye, October, 1912.
Why not have a clear skin, soft white
hands, a clean scalp and good hair? Cute
cura Soap with an occasional use of Cuti-
cura Ointment will bring about these
coveted conditions in most cases when all
else fails. A single set is often sufficient.
Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Ointment are
sold throughout the world. Liberal sample
of each mailed free, with 32-p. Skin Book
Address JR. Towns & Co., Sydney, IST. S. W.
Constipation and
Sluggish Liver
Don’t take chances. Get CARTER’S
LITTLE LIVER PILLS right now. They
never fail to make the liver
do its duty. They cure cor
Stipation, banish indi-
gestion, drive out
biliousness and the
blues, stop dizzi-
ness, clear the
complexion,
put a healthy
glow on the
cheek and
sparkle in the eye. There are many imitations. Be
sure and get CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS. The
pill is small, dose is small, price is small, but results
are alright. The GENUINE must bear signature
Carters
tPITTLE•
I IVEI
JB
IVER
PILLS
f
t,
n 'l/ - _ A
5%5
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
age, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. B
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. B. ALLEN’S
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equallv suitable
for Ladies .Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
IW“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing’ it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
&
1
'**
&
N 5
»Vf
I
iihiui
New Preparation
Causes Big Scare Among Hair Specialists.
Title Hair Grower Mas a most wonder-
ful effect upon, the Hair glands and tissues
of the scalp. It is the only remedy for the
hair ever discovered that is similar to the
natural hair foods or liquids of the scalp.
It penetrates the pores quickly, and the
hair soon shows the effects of its wonder-
fully exhilarating and life-producing quali-
ties.
Besides being a True Hair Grower, my
preparation quickly removes DANDRUFF,
and stops FALLING HAIR and ITCHING.
It is known the world over, and I have in
my consulting-rooms upwards of 3000 grate-
ful letters from men and women who have
derived so much benefit from the use of my
True Hair Grower as to compel them to
write and thank me.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES!
Having such complete confidence in this compound, I am offering a
trial box to anyone interested. Send in your name and full address, to-
gether with three penny stamps for postage, etc.
JOHN CRAVEN BURLEIGH
(Dept. 7), 192 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Choose a “ Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness—each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer—those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
"• “Swan Safety
Can’t Leak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch!
m
Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE. 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney.
Last month, on leaving Rrlsbane, going
north, the Chinese crew of the ship Alden-
ham was mus'tered as usual by the Customs
officer ; and, although the true
answered the roll call, he n
of them had aged strangely s
arrival. Notwithstanding t
üble protests that the cha
Enoggera water and the derl
ence of picture shows, th
DenharrU having pushed his Liquor Bill a
second time through the Assembly, now finds
himself confronted by the Bung party in tin-
smelt a ra t
old-time
who, rous of b.
g is not onlv potent in the
sils by virtue of direct repre-
o in tlie fact (list two lead
barrack for Beer fßung
each their
o opinions
tuber
Co
hat
land,
cban
Pagans ha
in China
ceedings
rwo Hop
Common
Th®'
quaint
an ene
plan i
put. hi
had a
othqr
throngs
present.
consist
said thepr
n t
was given
they objec
tha
waited od
British
that
he
equ
stupids ea
bdiv
ed estate
been com
vernmeni
try’s Def
De. -hain.
taxes;
ad time
that wa
nd sold
when
ual
."advan
the d
thm
pare to do a
bropir
they
that)
tn to believ
principle of
aying ft pe
bow. the wor
lOovernmeni
tempt, the
bam didn’i
himself, but
the requesi
othp’r kid to
bout "lane
“Don Q.”:
rt the feel
famil
happy
supporters
the
i the Higldancj
Irily remarkeo
us travels seen
their
|im, to speak
to barbar-
• Highland
shall pro-
jous Scot
to the
i cm-laca
while
to th-
DUPLEX
BRACES
For Men of Fiction
They're Great
At all Stores 2'
Ptfvr certain. ill*! WMII lull'll li [MI
j(LAer Appel Is the square peg in a round
boKr pr the round hole in a square lace, or
champion
lady tennis player, and daujrhier of DonaJd
Mackintosh. M.L.A.. wan married in Pitia*
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/H, 2/8 & 4/6.
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectu all >
cuts short all
attacks at
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medlolne for
BOUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
,*Jie cough of BROHOHITIS and
00N8UMPTI0H.
Acta like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
The Inky Way.
Adelaide Mail, a 24-page Sunday paper, gave over
to “Society Women” the producing of its issue of
11/4/’l4. ! Ethelwin Robin acted as editor; Muriel
Farr. wrote on the Cost of Living; Mrs.
Box ‘ was on the art of home-making and did
the gardening column; Mrs. R. Anderson held
forth on University life, and supervised the
religious column; Mrs. Crawford Vaughan (who
is Evelyn Goode, the novelist) ; Mrs. E. W.
Hanker and Adela Pankhurst appeared on politics;
Mrs. O’Leary was the sporting authority; and there
were various other features, including an article on
Frenchwomen by one of themselves, and a native
legend by Mrs. P. R. Stow—better known by her
former name of Mrs. Langloh Parker. There are
various opinions about the success of the experiment.
Some of them are different, and some are more
different than others.
* * * *
The London Times brought to light last week some
unpublished verses by Keats, whereof this is one:—
You say you love, but when your lips,
Coral tinted, teach no blisses
More than coral in the sea,
They never pout for kisses,
Oh, love me truly.
Keats was said to have died of a caustic criticism in
a review. If he had sent that stanza to The
Bulletin on spec, he would have died of “Answers
to Correspondents.”
* * * *
“Lud”: What a fall was there, my countrymen!
The London Times down to a penny. Down to tup-
pence only last May. Must be somewhat of hard
Times. Of course the Times ought to have been a
penny in the generation before last. Borthwick,
with the Morning Post, showed the road, while the
nobs and snobs declared that he rushed to ruin.
Aristocracy is essentially the most penurious class.
Queen Mary’s mother used to save bits of string and
scraps of paper. Borthwick acted boldly on the
principle that blue blood thinks more of a copper
than a coster does. The Times was a threepenny
thunderer for 52 years. “We’ll never come down.
We are not as other men are, even this publican. I
am holier than thou.” People grabbed the sacred
Times at a halfpenny an hour, and one copy saw
many thumbs. You had to read it, or you were lost.
It is 129 years old. The way it used to whack into
other papers, and they into it and each other,. in
the ’3o’s was astonishing. The Times called the
Chronicle “A squirt of filthy water.” The
Chronicle termed the Post “A slop-pail of corrup-
tion.” The Standard called the Globe “Our blubber-
headed contemporary.” The Herald said the
Courier was “a spavined old hack.” The Times,
in an article headed “The Liberal Liars,” wrote of
the Chronicle : “The community must be shocked to
know that there are such beings as these scribblers
out of the treadmill. Every exposure of the raga-
muffins is proof that there have crept into the Press
a number of scoundrels who would be a disgrace to
the vilest coteries of Europe.”
A PARNASININE RHYMI
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My Pegusass, my Pegusass,
That standest meekly by,
And chewest thistle heads for grass
With red and rolling eye,
1 needs must mount on thee and ride
Aeross the dusty plain,
For Verse ittust slide from thy duii hide
fete \Ve dome home agaiH.
Ih the jiggetty-jog Of the weil-Worn ti'ack
\Ve bump and bump along,
For you are a Very respectable habit
For ambling a roadster song. _ ,
i3lp\V high, blow lo\V all winds that g'd 1
In fair of stobipy weather
My feegusass and t must pass
i'he roid of rhyme tbgethbf.
ijphiil \Ve \Valk the bid heroic beat,
ten see-saW syllables gnd then a pause.
Th'e general effect. is father neat, (
And, if you needs must look to find the cause,
the measufe fits the shape of British jaws.
Spenser and Shakspeafe used it in their time,
iliitbn pursued in blank and Pope in weary rhyme.
the Alexandrine tops the hill,
And jogging down we go,
The gait that Wordsworth used to fill
Ten thousand lines or so.
Or if my neddy’s shoe is loose
We make a gayer jingle,
And double rhymings introduce
To alternate with single.
Along the fiat meadows the metre is kind,
In a low, easy canter we glide like the wind.
(Please notice the ending. We seldom have sinned
By calling the swift moving atmosphere wind.
We prefer the long syllable still to the short,
And the modern form causes my neddy to snort,
Although if it suited we mightn’t be loth
To do as John Davidson did and use both.)
Pegusass, Pegusass,
Let such small matters pass.
Who looks for clean rhymes
In these swift-riding times?
By the pebbles you scatter
It’s really no matter
To beast or to man
If the lines rhyme or scan,
As long as you never
Quite fail to look clever,
With dark sayings, peculiar, exultant, obscure,
Of whose meaning'your readers can never be sure.
God prosper long our noble king,
For whatsoe’er befall,
The ancient ballad has a swing,
And so God save us all;
But the newer ballad also has a long and fatal flow,
And to get a rhyme or ending you’ve a weary way
to go;
Yes, beyond the Darling Biver there are horses,
swags and shears,
And the Lord forgive my donkey with the sunset on
his ears.
All waits for the right voices! \
Good enough! Go crop unequal grass on Whitman’s
lawn.
Henley comes out of hospital and feels too tired to
look for rhymes.
Don’t bother after rhythms. ’Tis enough.
Just say things.
The tired people are mostly eating dinner.
Woah, you brute!
•%. canT jog to this acrobatic amble.
Gee up, and keep your hooves out of my eyes.
My Pegusass, my Pegusass,
Jog on to Hippocrene ■>
(I mispronounce the word, alas, ’
Like Keats, to rhyme with green).
The fountain may not be so clear
As when in Greece’s elder year
The Muses saw it bubble.
Jog on, my steed, there lives in beer
Some inspiration wanted.Jiere,
Our licensed Hippocrene is near,
Which saves a lot of trouble.
N.S.W.
D. M. W.


The Recognised Leading House for all
fSMOKERS & SHAVERS’ REQUISITES
PIPES
H
l
G
H
m a
V
G
R
A
D
E
•Tj. Pipes, made , from finest quality old
briar root, with supprior harid-cut Para vul-
canite mouthpieces. Heavy Silver mounts.
\l! : hopes 3/- each (post free)
m
Goudron,” finest quality
Natural Block
Meerschaum Pipes.
THE
SWEETEST
AND
COOLEST
SMOKING
PIPES EVER PRODUCED.
Para Vulcanite Mouthpieces, in case,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 14/6, 16/6. 21/-
each (post free).
Natural Pressed Amber Mouthpieces,
in case,
12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 18/6, 25/- each
(post free).
CIGARS
QUALITE
DE LUXE.
“Golden Key”
Cigars, of exquisite
aroma and infinite
charm.
The Standard
of Luxury
in Smoking.
IS
Put up in cedar cabinets containing—
-25 cigars, 11/0; 50 cigars, 22/6
(post free).
Sample boxes of 5 cigars, 2/6 (post
free).
CIGARETTES.
Delightful, Fascinating
“Three Witches”
Cigarettes, made from
selected, sun-ripe
Virginian Tobacco.
Finest quality.
5/- per 100 (post
free;.
ijHREE Witches
VIRGINIA
l»7'
frMc^RiS
fcSOwjlj®
ID. uon r
7
TOBACCOS.
‘Sunol,*’ highest grade Virginian, awarded 4
gold medals. Dark or Light. In plug or
cut, 6/- per lb. (post free).
‘Lonus” Smoking Mixture, choicest tobaccos,
skilfully blended. Put up in 2oz. tins.
8/0 per lb. (post free).
Tobacco Poticbes
H
A
N
D
Y
mm Ssi
$
-rr.^.yn
ii®'!
c
0
M
P
A
G
T
Wallet Pouch, Split Calf 2/9 each
~ ~ Real Morocco . . 3/6 „
„ >. Calf Crocodile .. 4/6 »
„ „ Gazelle 5/-
„ „ Velvet Calf .... 6/6 ••
m
POCKET LIGHTERS.
The “Sunol” Pocket
Lighter. Every smoker
should have one. Simple
in construction. Nothing
to get out of order.
2/« each (post free).
CIGAR and CIGARETTE
HOLDERS.
Amber Cigar Holders, silver rim,
in case, (i/6, 7/6 each.
Amber Cigar Holders, sold rim,
in case, 10/6, 11/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, silver
rim, in ease 4/. 4/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, e-ohi rim, in
case 7/6, 8/6 each.
OMIAVHS
N
0
I
H
I
N
G
mm
B
E
T
T
E
R
Shaving Seis, comprising 1 renowned C. 8.13.
Itazor, X C.1i.8. Razor Strop, 1 Badger Hair
Shaving Brush, and stick Williams s Soap
18/6 free).
RAZORS
R
E
m
Q
u
A
L
I
T
Y
The “Hitite” Razor, pronounced by experts
to be absolutely perfect. None to
equal it. Kept in Rood order for 2 years,
free of charge—
Vulcanite Handle 7/0 each (post free).
Tvory Handle - 10/0 each (post free).
SAFETY RAZORS.
The Celebrated “Auto Strop” Safety
Razor, complete with 12 blades and strop,
in leather case 22/0 (post free).
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
Head Depot: Hay market, Sydney
Branches : CITY, SUBURBS and NEWCASTLE.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
r AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (O O) Whisky
Dogs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
h
V/
m
iiift
w
m
*«Y,i
'f.v<
N \
».0
. '\\\
STEVENS
Favorite, Marksman,
Crackshot, Little Scout
8l Visible Loader Rifles
are highly suitable for every outdoor boy,
man and woman shooter. Unerringly accu-
rate —light, portable, take-down —made in
all standard small-bore calibres.
STEVENS RIFLES, SHOTGUNS, PIS-
,TOLS, are for sale by all progressive
I Dealers.
Write for general Catalogs—detailed infor-
mation, etc., to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms
& Tool Company,
G.P.O. Box 86, Adelaide, South Australia. [•
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
JA-t
&
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for mem, women and children.
SOLD BY ALI HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETIIc. & CO., London, England.
N.B. —The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
HOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MAIUiJASsE GUIDL, illustrated with over SO en-
gravjn,gs r ne\V 1918 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England,,oo. How to Out Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
TINI'VS, SILK.NT Fill UN [> s Is 0(1. NFC DONNELLY’S ART
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wresti/e, Is. ° Moll
Flan'iterS,' a rare booh bv lie Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is AM. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, is. Ventriloquism Made East, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Hell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 8s (id posted. Kiddle of the
Universe, Sd, and all the .Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/6.
Joys ,ok Life, is.Gii. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyhook, 1/8. (Quadrille Call Book.
adventures of a Flirt, 1/8. Parlor Tricks & Lames.
1-. For t,une-Teli, ing nv Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.. Is. Beauty's
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is fid. Ilnw to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Ausi:. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals)
3s 6d. Mauomets Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer's Sure Guide), price Is: nost, Is 3d
How. to Become Quick & Figures, Is Lt.
Lqualitv, 9‘l. M ill Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow s Book .of Strength, 8s posted
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 8s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is (id. History ok the Rod (Flagellations
and the 1< lage.llants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Lng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty G-Ilarr-b
ford), 9d. ' The art ok Jiu-Jitsu. 9d and Is 6d.
God and Mv Neighbor, (id. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 8d How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases or Hopses
’s 3d. Theory of \ ai.ue, ls46d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. PiiotograijiiM Self-Taught i/°
How to Make Sweets. Jams and Syrups Is 0 d ’\kw
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
PaPkring, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science
10s (id. Australian Pastrycook's-Guide Is 6d’
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAK “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old. but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out. of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th "Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANV address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH, -ms
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING GAIiDS- LOVE,
Lt SINESS, FUTUItITV, iSc., with full directions,
is posted. Gam ijlers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Gauds. Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Kitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
in at Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, is. Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for ah Games), is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River. 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. liiE d Hite Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter. Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations' and portraits is- post
Is -2d. Electricity Made Simple (.new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping. 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDocgall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women's Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. Tiie Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don't be fooled into paying more.
Compare my priees with others and save
your cash. USF'Established 25 Tears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my. . . .
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, "emiiiie
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford's Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6<t
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key ’to all
Decrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
INGKRSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coat.es), Is 3d posted. Cuevassf.’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfaddens Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster's Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.. leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing’, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
ASSISTANT AND COMPLETE MECHANIC, 10]G pages, clotil
bound, ]os 6d posted. The Sf.crkts of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-’
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, bv Paine
posted, Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-D AV’


Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
again Successful.
The four-
year -old
Twins of
Mrs.
Elizabeth
Arundale,
m
who were
cured o f
Whooping
Cough by
New
Discovery
The Mother’s Letter.
"Aly little boy and girl, 1, years of age (twins), were suffering severely from
\V hooping Cough, almost choking witli phlegm, the coughing fits causing them to
turn black in the face and greatly exhausting them,” writes Mrs. K. Aruiidale, 27
Russell Street, Dunedin, N.Z. “We could get no remedy to relieve them, and we
had tried a great many at considerable expense, but they were of no curative
value whatever. A lady friend mentioned Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery to us as
a sure remedy, and from the time they started taking it they speedily improved,
and in a very short time indeed they were completely and permanently cured,
thanks to Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery, for which we are very grateful, and will
recommend it on all possible occasions.”
Safeguards the Home.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is a safe and certain remedy for children’s
winter ills, and has brought health and strength to thousands of sickly children.
It can be relied on to check the cold so quickly that the rosy cheeks have no time
to grow pale, and the little brain remains clear and sensitive for the day’s study.
No coughing at night when Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery has been taken before
bedtime, but deep refreshing sleep to fit the children for another day of school.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery has become the Australasian mother’s refuge in
relieving and curing Croup, Whooping Cough, Influenza and Bronchitis. ,
Price—ls. 6d. and 3s.
D? Sheldon's
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
The only Safe, Best, Quickest-
acting Remedy for Sciatica is
DR. STOHR’S
L
□
□
E
Recommended by hundreds or English Doctors, and
used in all leading Continental and English Hospitals
IT DOES NOT AFFECT THE HEART.
YOU may feel Sciatica in the liip or thigh only, in the
knee, down the calf, or in the heel, or you may be
unfortunate enough to be attacked the entire length
of the leg.
A continual dull pain frequently breaking out in the
form of a paroxysm brought on by walking or the heat
of the bed. and in various other ways. However it comes,
when you get it you know it is there, such are the symp-
toms it displays.
All these sufferings, so painful because of the acute
nature of the disease, are easily subdued and vanished,
usually in a few hours, by taking Keplntldol, Dr. Stohr’s
great and wonderful painkiller.
Even the most acute and violent forms of Sciatica
succumb to Kephaldol within a few days. Moreover
Ivephaldol can be taken without any risk of unpleasant or
dangerous effects. In this respect it is unlike all other
remedies for the same purposes.
IT IS GUARANTEED TO BE ABSOLUTELY
HARMLESS even in very large doses, and is warmly
praised, prescribed and recommended by hundreds of
medical men who have made extensive tests of its efficacy.
Get a tube and keep it handy, for it is absolutely
reliable for curing Headache, Neuritis, Rheumatism,
Painful Menstruation and Nerve Pains of all sorts.
r
frit
Sold In tubes by all
Chemists at 1/6 <t 3/6.
SEE WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY OF IT;
“Kephaldol proved of much ser-
vice in a case of Sciatica, giving
temporary relief within twenty-
four hours, and after that what
will be, I believe, a permanent
cure.”
—Dr. L. D. H. Russell, Bristol.
“From the results experienced
by Ivephaldol in a case of Sciatica
and one of Lumbago (probably
rheumatic), I think it has all the
properties you claim for it.”
—Dr. R. Fe«an, Maida Vale, W.
If yon have any difficulty in obtaining a supply locally send a posta
stamps to the value of tube desired, and it will be sent you by return
KEPHALDOL, 30 Ash Street, Sydney.
not*' or
lost.
I\ L -iso;;
The Sentimental Bloke and the
Siren.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE sung a song; an’ I sat silent there
Wif bofe ’an’s grippin’ tight on to
me chair;
Me ’eart, that yesterd’y I thort wus broke
Wif ’umpin’ sicli a ’eavy load o’ care,
Come swellin’ in me throat like I would
choke.
1 feels ’ot blushes climbin’ to me ’air.
’Twas like that feelin’ when the spring wind
breaves
Sad music in the sof’ly rustlin’ leaves ;
An’ when a bloke sits down an’ starts to
chew
Crook thorts, wifout quite knowin’ why ’e
grieves
Fer things ’e’s done ’e didn't ort to do,
Fair winded wif the ’eavy sighs ’e ’eaves.
She sung a song; an’ all at once I seen
The kind o’ crool an’ ’eartless brute I been.
In ev’ry word I read it like a book —
The slanter game I’d played wif my Doreen.
I ’card it m ’er song; an’ in ’er look
I sor wot made me feel fair rotten mean.
Poor 'urt Doreen! My tender bit o’ dull'!
Ar, men don’t understand : they’re fur too
rough ;
Their ways is 'ard an’ coarse wif lovin’
tarts;
They never slings ’em symperthy enough;
But treats ’em ’arsh, an’ tramples on their
’carts,
Bocos their own crool ’earts is leather-tough.
She sung a song; an’ all them bitter things
That chewin’ over barneys ever brings
(live place to thorts of sorrer an’ remorse;
Tike when some ’eart-broke punter goes an’
slings
Is larst lone deener on a stiffened ’orse,
An learns to know that vain regret wot
stings.
f I was at a beano, where I lobs along
lo drown them memories o’ fancied wrong.
1 swears I never tumbled she’d be there.
Tut, when I met ’er eye—O strutli! ’Twas
strong,
’Twas bitter strong, that jolt o’ dull de-
spair !
Tr look o scorn !.... An' there she sung a
song.
ihe clioon was one o them slow, mournful
things
that ketch yeh in the hellers ’ere, an’brings
Tears to yer eyes; the words wus of a tart
t rat 'km .wif a dilly coot that slings
Er love aside, an’ breaks ’er tender ’eart.
J>ut twasn t that; it wus the way she sings.
2V ’u"' ’ e f voice! v bloke’d be a log
ae Pl 18 block. .\ie mind wus in a fog
Uf sorrer fer to think ’ow I wus wrong.
‘Hr ave been a fair ungrateful ’og!
jne ? ee^n ’ that she put into that song
Ld wring the ’eart-strings of a chiner dog.
I listens wif me ’eart up in me throat;
1 drunk in ev’ry word an’ ev’ry note.
I ear s trembled in ’er voice when she tells
ow
Ihe tart snuffs out becos ’e never wrote.
, n , n then 1 seen ’ow I wus like that cow
Uo s conscience, all too late, wif guilt wus
smote.
Doreen, she never looks at me! but stood
Art turned away, an’ beefs it out reel good ;
••7' 11 / sun S that bit about the grave:
1 oo lute ’e learned V:’ ad misunderstood!”
An then Gorstrooth! The pleadin’ look
she gave,
r air in me face, ’ud melt a ’eart o’ wood !
I dumio ’ow I seen that ev’nin’ through ;
they muster thort I wus ’arf shick, I knoo.
But I ad ’urt Doreen wifout no call:
t seen me dooty, wot I ’ad to do.
U strike! I .could ’a’ blubbed before ’em
all!
Rut I sat tight an’ never cracked a boo.
Ac, when, at larst, the eliners makes a rise
A ,iop;eared coot wif curls down to ’is eyes
E, ooks on to Doreen an’ starts to ro'am
rer (mm an’ muvver. I lines up an’ cries,
An s orf! I’m seein’ this ’ere diner
ome.
An there we left ’im, gapin’ wif surprise.
die never spoke; she never said no word ;
l 't walked beside me like she never ’eard.
1 swallers ’ard, then starts to coax an’
plead.
iff , c^ea( I ashamed o’ wot’s occurred.
‘he don’t reply, nor seem to take no ’eed :
tfut stares before ’er like a frightened bird.
T tells ’er never can no uvver tart
t ar f ot we ’ave to part:
1 tells er that me life will be a wreck.
•me never ’eeds. But Avhen I make a start
lo break away, 'er arms is ’round me
neck :
Ah, Kid!” she sobs. “Yeh nearly broke me
eart!”
I dunno wot I done or wot I said ;
But struth ! I’ll not fergit it till I’m dead—
A hat night when ’ope back in me brisket
lobs;
Ow my Doreen she lays ’er little ’ead
Down on me shoulder ’ere, an’ sobs an’
sobs;
An all the light gits sorter blurred an’ red.
dry, square n’ all—it don’t seem right,
some’ow,
lo say sich things, but wot I’m feelin’
As come at times, I s’pose, to uvver
men—
1 °n you ’ave ’ad a reel old ding-dong row,
b°v, ain’t it sweet to make it ur> agen?
*>o sweet it’s almost worf. .. . Ar ! I’m a cow !
To think I’d ever seek to ’arm a ’air
er dear ’ead agen ! My oath ! I swear
Ao more I’ll roust on ’er in angry ’eat!
But yet. she's never seemed to me so fair •
. hhe never wus so tender or so sweet
•is when we smooged beneath the lamplight
there.
Rhe’s never been so lovin’ wif 'er gaze,
bo gentle, wif ’er pretty woman’s way's.
“ tells ’er she’s me queen, me augeT too.
no . : 1 ain!t no an S<'l. Kid.” she says •
i m just a woman, an’ I loves veil true •
An so I u lovo vf>b all me mortal days T ”
Sh(> sung a song.. . .’Ere, in me barmy style,
1 sets all tarts ; fer in me hour o’ trile
Me soul wus withered be a woman’s frown.
An broodin Care comes roostin’ on me dile.
She sung a song—me ’eart, wif woe earst
down,
Mus raised to Eaven be a woman’s smile.
VICTORIA.
C. J. DENNIS.
Stowaways.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT’S the easiest thing in the world to
stow away, these days,” said the
purser, as we sat In the ship’s bar,
gi\ ing occasional orders to the bar-rooui
steward. There were the chief steward, the
second engineer, the assistant purser, and a
little clergyman, one of the passengers, who
was sipping lemonade and winking devilishly
when a point was made in the conversation.
•‘lt/s dead easy,” repeated the purser.
“Earner, in fact, than would be the job of a
Millions Club in Hell. I know if ever 1 want
iu go anywhere as something else than an
officer of the ship, it’s me for the Stowaway
Stakes. I only call it ‘stowaway,’ mind,
because the word doesn’t signify what it did
in the old days. But my deadhead sea going
won t be done in the hold, or in the steerage,
like some of those poor devils. I’m going-
saloon.
It’s not so difficult, you know. Just
pick your ship, finding out one which is to
carry a good number of saloon passengers. Co
on board, lock yourself in the bathroom, and
have a bath. Not long after she starts, the
purser will come along and call out, ‘Ticket
in there, please!’ ‘Right,’ you answer, ‘l’ll
give it to you when I corn? out. It’s in my
cabin.’ The purser will be pretty sure to
then pass on, having too many other tickets
to collect to wait for your emergence from
the bath. He may come back, but —ill, of
course, find that you’re gone. You will see
to that. You just walk down as cool as you
like when meal-time comes, and sit among
the mob, sailing into your eight-course joy-
ousness with untrembling conscience and
appetite. Having no legitimate berth, you
would have to bring a few rugs with you
and sleep up on deck, or in the smoke- or
bar-rooms, which is permissible.
“I don’t say you could work this scheme
from Sydney to London, you know, but you
could do it to Maoriland, or Melbourne, or
Brisbane, or even as far north up the coast
as Townsville—perhaos even farther.
Neither the purser nor the chief steward will
notice you during the voyage, because their
time will be fully occupied in attending to
the other passengers—especially the frilled
ones. A man doesn’t want to give in his
name for games of deck cricket you know;
and however musical he mav be. it would be
unwise for him to have his monniker put
down on the programme for a music-room
concert, because either the steward or purser
would notice it. probably, as not being in
(he berthing-list. The free traveller can
well afford to forego little extras of the
kind. His business is to get from one
port to another for nothing, and not to
parade the fact that he has a soul for music.
If he is content to leave well alone, then he
is fairly safe. In the second-class it’s
easier still. You don’t meet any of the
officers there. Officers on steamships con-
sider themselves a cut above the second-
class.
‘‘l say, the days of hiding down amongst
the cargo are mostly over. That game is too
uncomfortable for your modern, luxury-lov-
ing ‘stowaway.’ Anyhow, what can hanpen
to him, even if he is discovered? He can be
only lined or gaoled, at the very worst. It’s
a confounded nuisance for the purser, and.
maybe, a couple of the other officers to have
to go and waste perhaps half a day giving
evidence against a stowaway! at the court:
so that, to save trouble, the impostor, when
discovered, is often given a job in the
galley or stokehold, to enable him to work
out his salvation to the port he has consigned
himself to. And so it often happens that when,
the trip is over, the ship owes the original
stowaway two or three pounds in wages.'
It is usual for stowaways, when working-
in such circumstances, to complain bitterly
about the food they receive. Stealing a
passage, or attempting it. even though it be
a valuable one, seems to be an offence of no
importance beside that of stealing a watch
and chain.
“Some stowaways try to beat you with
the not-enough-money or the dying mother
racket. I had an experience witli one of
the former the other day. We had just left,
and I was "oing round as usual getting the
tickets when this fellow came up to me.
“ ‘Purser?’ he says. I nodded.
“ ‘You look a pretty good sort of a bloke,’
he remarks.
“‘Do I?’ says I.
“ ‘l’ve on’y got ten bob,’ pleads he, ‘and 1
wanter go ter Brisbin.’
“ ‘Then you must dig up the extra money
somewli! re.’ I told him, ‘or you’re due for
the magistrate,’
“ ‘Tell you what,’ he proposes. ‘Give me
a few hours, and I’ll take me ten bob down
the steeridge and start a game o’ poker. I’m
something of a prince at ther game, and I
might ’ave luck,’ He winked.
“I told him to please himself about that,
but that he would have to hurry up. He
caAne back in an hour and a half, with a
big grin and £l5 in notes.
“ ‘l’ve won it.’ he confided. ‘I can buy
half a dozen steeridge passidges now if I
want ’em.’
“The liar! I know that sort of cove!
He’d had the money all the time ! It takes
a smart one to beat me nowadays, I tell
you. But some of them are very cunning.
Sometimes, when they want to stretch out
their nassages (having’ intended to do so all
along) they tell you they’ve been over-
carried. That’s a great wheeze of the
Hindus —the men who win all the land
ballots round the N.S.W. North Coast dis-
tricts. They plead no-savee, and of course
it’s hard to prove that they are lying.
“The dying-mother game, as I have told
you, is a favorite ruse. But you get genuine
cases now and again. There was a lad of
about 20 who told me his mother was dying
of consumption in Adelaide, and had had a
wire sent to him in Sydney, asking for him
to be on hand before the end. if possible.
The yciine fellow was £1 short of the single
(Continued on next page.)


ARE YOUR KIDNEYS WEAK?
Weak Kidneys Cause Backache, Gravel, Urinary
Disorders, Dropsy, Lumbago and Rheumatism.
Every moment of your life poisonous waste keeps
getting into the blood from your food and from the
wear and tear of the body. But the kidneys filter it
out and keep the blood pure.
But when the kidneys are weak they cannot do
their work thoroughly. Then some of the poisonous
waste gets left in the blood, and you begin to feel
dull, heavy and drowsy; your back is bad, your head
aches; dropsical swellings appear in the ankles or
under the eyes, and the heart becomes affected. You
may get rheumatic twinges, lumbago attacks or dizzy
spells. The bladder acts too often, or there is pain
in seeking relief. There may be sediment, gravel or
cloudiness of the water.
When the kidneys are ill they need a kidney medi-
cine—ordinary medicines won’t do —they cannot
cleanse and relieve the kidneys. Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills act quickly and directly upon the
kidneys and bladder—help the kidneys to fdter the
mischievous kidney poisons out of the blood and
dispose of them through the urinary system. Doan’s
Pills give the best results of any kidney medicine
known.
5*
« Every
picture
tells a
story."
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
are sold by all chemists and stores
at 2/9 per bottle (6 bottles 15/3),
or post free on receipt of price
from Foster-McClellan Co., 76
Pitt Street, Sydney.
CURED TO STAY CURED,
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
FROM ST. LEONARDS.
Mrs. F. V. Richards, “Earlswood,” Rawson Street, St.
Leonards, Sydney, says: “For about 12 months I was a
martyr to kidney complaint. At times I used to cry out
with the terrible pains in my back. I could not do my house-
work. Many a time I have had to get a neighbor to come
and rub my back with liniment. I was treated by a doctor
for a considerable time, but he did me no good. I heard
that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were curing similar
cases, and decided to try them. They gave me relief at
once, and a course of the pills perfectly cured me. It is
four years since I was cured, and I have never had any
return of the complaint. I can do my housework now
without constant torture. I cannot speak too highly of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
Three years later, Mrs. Richards says: “It is now seven
years since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me of
backache and kidney trouble, and I have had no return of
these ailments during all that time.”
FROM BOTANY. |
Mr. Lewis Williams, cnr. Wilson Street and Botany Road,
Botany, says: “I was a great sufferer with my back, and the
pain was at times so bad that I have had to leave my work
and go home. I also had to walk about in a bent position,
as I could not straighten without increased suffering. I
used various preparations, but only got slight temporary
relief. Reading of cures effected by Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, I decided to try them. One bottle eased the
pain, and the second completed my cure. This did not
happen yesterday, but about seven years ago, and I have
had no sign of backache all that time, so it is not mere
temporary relief but a perfect cure. lam always advising
my friends to use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and take
this opportunity to publicly recommend them.”
Three years later Mr. Williams says: “I am still well,
and have been free of backache since Doan's Backache
Kidney Pills cured me 10 years ago.”
m
Backache
Kidney
PILLS
steerage fare, so I told him, having sure
information that he was bona fide, to see if
he. could borrow the deficit. He tried to do
this, but didn’t succeed. However, be sold
his links for 125., and the captain allowed
him to work off the rest by trimming coal
down in the bunkers. These instances,
which you might call deserving, are the
exception.
“Women, as usual, get better treatment
than they perhaps merit. A collection is
invariably taken up to make good the pas-
sage-money of a she-stowaway. The ticket
subscribed for is mostly saloon, and if the
collection (which is always made very
quietly and secretly, so as not to hurt the
lady stowaway’s feelings) doesn’t bring the
required amount, the saloqn passengers, as a
rule, get up a concert, and make up the
fare with the box-takings.
“Crooks wanted by the police travel pretty
extensively around the Australian coast,
considering their small proportion to the
general community. When they’re badly
wanted their usual scheme is to go in a
well-ventilated case as cargo. And now and
again they actually make voyages as corpses
—yes, corpses. I remember one little mat-
ter of the kind, years ago. Now, it’s a
wrong idea to suppose that corpses are
always put into the ship’s refrigerator to
keep. Sometimes they are put down in the
hold with the general cargo, but ordinarily
are carried on deck when the distance is
short enough for them not to become objec-
tionable. When they’re carried on deck it
is in a plain, common-looking box not a bit
like a coffin, and quite devoid of plated fit-
tings. Carried at shipper’s risk? Certainly.
Well, in this instance the wanted person,
who was going as a stiff, was taken right to
the port to \yhich he had been consigned.
The hatchman, during a lull in the discharge
of (he general cargo, caused by a break-
down of the winch, thought it would be a
goof! chance to get (he supposedly ‘departed’
pne s box off the ship. His temper was more
than usually sour, owing to the accident to
(he_ \vinch. Unconscious of the nature of
their seats, a couple of stout old ladies were
squatting on the case. Acidly (he hatchman
addressed them: ‘Would you mind getting
up off that corpse, please?'
“The portly females uttered terrible
shrieks, and fled. The row they made gave
the -corpse such a shock that he bumped
his head audibly against the side of the
box. The ha(chman’s suspicions were
aroused, the case opened, and the crook con-
founded and arrested. You know, it’s very
hard to give a suitable excuse for not being
dead.
“It reminds me of the prettiest stowaway
I ever had dealings with. It was in 1898,
when I was on a line running to Maoriland.
She got on at Sydney. She was a lovely
girl of 19. fair hair and blue eyes, and she
confessed in tears, when I was coming round
for the tickets off Rose Bay, that she had
no money, and absolutely had to get to
Maoriland. I could do nothing, but I ex-
plained her case to a cprtain big bookmaker
aboard, whom I knew, and who was on his
way to Maoriland for a holiday. He bought
her a first-saloon passage right off. And yet
they want to bring in the totalisator! She
thanked both of us, and couldn’t be grateful
enough. What a bright little giri, too. She
said that friends would meet her on the
wharf at Auckland. Op the way over, with
her joyous conversation and her charming
little ways, she was the light of the saloon
table. She used to sit next to me, you know.
Then she quietly threw herself overboard
one night. Cancer of the breast was her
trouble. I was really fond of that girl.”
The purser was staring straight ahead
with eyes which did not see the “Time-table
of Steamers” on the wall opposite, and we
silently went to our bunks.
C. R. L. HALLORAN.
John Isaac Ephraim Bull.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AMONG the chiefest of those stupidly
self-satisfied organisations which
exist to prove that the Deity is an
Englishman, and that any battle which
would crushingly defeat England must be
Armageddon and presage the rapid ending
of the world, is that Exeter Hall body
which calls itself variously “British Israel”
or “The Society for the Establishment of
the Identity of the British and American
with the Lost Ten Tribes of Is-
rael,” or "The British Israel Identification
Association.” I attended a few of their
services at Exeter Hall and found them a
collection of Dreary and Blatant Advocates
of the Unnecessary, and Provers of the
Impossible.
Their literature is tremendous. They
publish a weekly paper,. the Bannek of
Israel, and books by the hundred : “British
Israel” ; “British Israel Tracts” ; “The Wit-
ness of the Nation” ; “The Birthright Bles-
sings” ; “The New Old Story” ; “The Eng-
lish Israelite”; and a hundred others. As
if to prove that the promoters of the new
Yiddishers are Jews themselves, at any
rate, they charge like the Light Brigade
for tjieir wads of madness and run them
into 10 and 12 editions.
1 am ready to believe that the British
Israelite is the worst singer in the world.
I heard all these self-styled Jews howling
at the top of their alleged voices: —
Lift up thine eyes, O Ephraim, then, and sing!
Break forth, 0 barren one! Cry aloud, rejoice!
Gather thy sons from far to meet thy King I
And praise him with one heart, one mind, o,ne
voice.
After this tremendous poem had been bel-
lowed, the leading Israelite uttered these
statements as “facts” with that sublime in-
difference to proof which is characteristic of
all cranks, and especially of the religious
crank of any sort: —
“Subsequent to their —ah —captivity the
—ah—ten tribes were pwophesied to wander
to The ‘lsles of the Sea’—to the—ah—
‘lsles afar off’ —ah —‘To the North and to
the West.’ Like a mighty wivver they have
passed through many changes, but they-—■
ah —began as Israelites and we see their
descendants now as the —ah —British
Nation.”
And then, in a triumphant challenging of
all refutation —
“The Wivver Whine at its source is—ah —-
a vewy differwent looking wattah compared
to when it we&ches its mouth, but twuly it
is the Wjvver Whipe for ajll thgt.
“It was pwophesiqd of Iswael that she
should possess the Gatos of her enemies,
We have nov. sixty-six such gates open—
ah—continually day and night, such as Gib-
waltar, Malta, Pewim, Aden, Socotwa, and
—and—so on.
“Bwitain now uses almost the exact
weights and measures used by the Hebwews.
“Iswael was commanded to lend to many
nations, but to bowwow from none. This is
pwecisely what Gweat Bwitain does, having
lent five hundwed an’ eighty millions—er —
I forget the exact amount.
“Bwitish Iswael is, as a wule, fwaternal
to the abowigines of her colonies, but never-
theless finds them dying out, as foretold by
Jewemiah.
“The Iswaelites were to be blind to their
owigin. So is Gweat Bwitain.
“The Pwomised Land is still unsold. God
has been keeping it for his people for over
3SOO years, and 192 million acres, from the
Wivver of Egypt to the Wivver Euphwates
are Our Inhewitance.
“It is pwobable that the stone in the
cowonation chair at Westminster Abbey is
the God guaided stone of Lethel Jacob S
fetone, or the 1 1 liar of Witness. •
“The name ‘Saxon’ is dewived fwom ‘Saac-
Sunnia,’ sons of Saac, or Isaac.
“The twibe of Dan was the pioneer twibe
in Bwitain, and the twibal name may still be
twaced in such wivvers and places as Dan-
übe, Danan, Dantzig, Danenborg, Denmark,
The Don and the Dannie Alps.
“By the pwophesy Iswael is to be a gweat
nation and a company of nations. The
gweat nation is the Bwitish and Amewican
and the company of (nations is Canada, Aus-
tralia, South Africa and—er—others.
“Then we have a descendant of David
weigning over us, and our national hewaldrv
is the Lion and the Unicorn 99
All this and much more. ‘ Proving every-
thing from nothing going nowhere, boxing
the compass with Jonah s whale; discovering
the seed of David and Abraham in the com-
fortable figureheads of the House of Ilan-
over. The Gates of her Enemies become
Gibwaltar and Pewim and the rest of it,
even the foolishly archaic British method
of weighing and measuring is adduced as a
« f Fl ! iae . orlgl “;« r a t least of Divine
dani, P r °t ec ti° n - When the prophecy is
against them they twist it so that England,
with her tremendous national debt, is made
to appear as owing nothing, or at least as
n *°? iri ? t0 L ~t be Gentiles (which
may be true, too, but in a way the opposite
to that intended).
As to the aborigines dying out, the Aus-
tralian black apparently was not wiped out
with bullets and strychnined flour for any
other purpose but to prove the infallibility
of the “pwophesies of Jewemiah.”
It would be a quite harmless madness if
it didn’t use some good money and if it
didn’t have a political bearing. In repre-
sents the Nonconformist Conscience in its
silliest moments, and its political bearing is
on that impracticable Imperial Federation
which is the refuge of the visionary politician
in his old age. But principally it is to be
objected to by a hard-headed generation,
which wants facts and nought else, as the
work of kindly idiots who would deny the
Equator if it were necessary to prove that
Dan established Denmark, or that Denmark
is so named because of Daniel’s den of
lions, which animals, no doubt, had some
connection with the Lion of Judah; hence
the old Kingdom of Lyonesse. the remains
of which are now the Scilly Isles, and Old
Jewry in London, and trial by jury, and the
Isle of Jura, and the British occupation of
Egypt because Moses was there when the
light went out. (That humble herb called
moss was invented by Moses and named
after him, in consequence of which some
people are called Moss to this day, the name
having grown upon them.) And from all
this we deduce that the family of Simpson
was descended from Simeon, and that the
game of nap had its origin in Naphtali, and
other circumstances too numerous and un-
necessary to call for special mention.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The Little Man in Bed.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Great preparations are being made for the visit of
King George to Paris. He will sleep in the bed of
Napoleon the First. — News item.
WHAT are you doing in that bed,
little man?
Fit your head to its pillow, if you
can !
For there has lain the giant brain that
planned tumultuous things ;
That turned the kings to valets and the
valets into kings ;
An Ego vast, and overcast with cloudy
dreams of fate ;
Two hands that wrestled Europe in a grip
of dreadful hate:
He changed the maps of continents as over
them he ran :
What are you doing in his bed, little man?
What are you doing in that bed, little man?
And can you sleep? Well, I suppose you
can!
There’ll come no ghost with haughty boast:
“I made you cringe and crave;
The Austrian was my servant, the Prussian
was my slave ;
I fought and lied to stand astride the mon-
archs crawling probe ;
I kicked aside their dynasties, and made
their pride my own ;
For I was more than fifty kings, if for a
little span:—
What are you doing in my bed, little man?”
What are you doing in that bed, little man?
He who would fill it, let him, if he can!
The Man who strode along the road built
of his own grand schemes
Will laugh to see you gaping in the bed
that knew his dreams ;
The visions bold to seize and hold, to con-
quer and to smite,
Oh, they will not disturb you on the sleepy
banquet night!
Sleep, kinglet, sleep; Napoleon left your
sires as they began;
But France! that France should give you
his bed, little man!
Was there no bed but that bed, little man?
N.S.W.
L.


mm
Oil Eng
me
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
mm
* *
m m
fsi;
mmM
■
■■■ x JH' ■
RKJlKisr <va
-yj
m
From 7 to 40 H.P.
No Carburetter or Vaporiser,
No Ignition Apparatus.
Makes the following claims upon
your attention—
1 — It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kero-
sene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the
cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
S—lt is very simple in construction, there
being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators
■ and centrifugal pumps may be coupled
direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply
of fuel and lubricant being all the
attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET. CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
The Record of the
Stirling Boiler
SHOWS—
HIGHEST evaporation per sq. ft. of heating surface.
HIGHEST efficiency.
LOWEST coal costs. LOWEST maintenance costs.
40 Municipal undertakings use STIRLING BOILERS. Average
tube renewals *295 tubes per boiler per annum. Average
efficiency of 17 boiler tests in electricity stations was 79 %.
REPEAT ORDERS RECEIVED FROM 220 SATISFIED USERS.
The Austral Engineering Supply Go.
LIMITED ,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Metz-“22,” £l9O
The Simple Car for the Country.
These Serviceable Cars are at Work all over N,S.W.
If you require a Simple, Economical, Reliable and Moderately-priced Car it will
pay you to investigate the METZ. Friction Drive (eliminating complicated
gear wheels), 22 H.P., 4 cyl. Bosch Ignition, clearance, 45m. p. hour,
33m. p. gallon.
Brown 8 Hellicar Ltd.,
375 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
rhe British-built
Waver ley,
From *350 to *375
Nett.
GOLDFIELDS DIAMOND DRILLING CO. Pty.Ltd.
331 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works—Sturt St., S. Melbourne.
QI/VULL
BURNS KIROSfNI
RUMELY TRACTOR.
Works continuously on CHEAPEST Kerosene
BORING CONTRACTORS
and MANUFACTURERS.
Armstrong Traction and Aii-Steel Boring
Machines, Tools and Casing in stock.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines, Wind-
mills, Pumps, Silos, Hay Presses,
Wagons, etc., etc.
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE-
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won’t
knit, a bad lag or a skin eruption of any kind,
no _ matter o„f how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surely with
WILKINSON'S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
Kruschen
Salts N i
Now sold by Chemists throughout tne commonwealth. I
Wholesale Importers:
H. &W. GREAR, 287, Clarenci Street, SYDNEY I
-T
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size- Price, 21s.
THE MEDICINE TO BE RELIED ON
is a term which tersely expresses the reputation that has been
achieved by Beecham’s Pills. For upwards of sixty years they have
been highly appreciated by all classes of the community. Multitudes
of men and women in every walk of life ungrudgingly acknowledge
them to be areally reliable remedy for disorders of the stomach, liver,
kidneys and bowels. A vegetable preparation skilfully compounded
of tbe finest ingredients, Beecham’s Pills are uniform in standard and
their beneficial effects are invariable. They strengthen the stomach,
regulate the action of the liver, eliminate impurities from the blood
and keep the bowels properly regulated. Health and happiness,
vivacity and vitality, a clear head and a good appetite attend those
who, from time to time, take
BE&CHAMS
PIUS
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/1* (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager.
VARIETY WOOD WORKER.
SAWMILLERS,
Builders &. Joiners.
Take my advice and buy your
Woodworking Machines at
KIRCHNER (El CO.
32 MarKet Street, Sydney.
They hold the largest stock in Australasia. They
give you value for your money. They are the
manufacturers, and can save you the heavy, mid-
dleman’s commission. Their machines are up to
date and reliable. They stock all spare parts
and reserve tools. It will be a pleasure to you
and your men to work their machines.
Go and see them to-day, or ’phone City 7091.
CASH OR TERMS. CATALOGUES FREE.
s»
wsmeum
KNOWN TUB
ll/IEN ! You get what you pay for
in the Gillette Safety Razor
and that is shaving service.
Many a man would refuse twenty
pounds for his Gillette if he could not
get another. And he wouldn’t pay
“ tuppence ” for a razor that fell
short of his requirements.
The Gillette is the only razor that has a positive adjust-
ment—for a light or tough beard or for a sensitive skin.
Gillette Standard Sets, One Guinea. Sold everywhere. Write for
illustrated and descriptive Booklet. Please mention this paper.
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA;
S* HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
NO STROPPING NO HONING
m


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof*,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
FRICTION HOISTS.
SPECIALLY SUITED for BUILDERS’ USE.
SIZE IN STOCK: scwt. lift at 200 ft, per minute.
scwt. lift at 300 ft. per minute.
lOcwt. lift at 175 ft. per minute.
Fitted with Motors for Use on any Supply Voltage or System. MODERATE PRICES.
EbiPps®#
OF AUSTRALIA Lt»
SYDNEY : Wynyard Lane.
MELBOURNE: Ol William Street.
BRISBANE: Corner Saul &. Roma Streets.
3520 City.
5117 City.
3676 Central.
It is the Power
Your Belt W
Transmits
that
Counts
56
*
5e
Sure
and
Specify
DICK’S
BELTING
Sole Agent*—
Jas. Hardie 8 Co.
Circular Quay,
SYDNEY.
And MELBOURNE.
m
•••v/.C
vr 3
Spirit
m
V *?% *V>.V i
% %
\V" -.. -y'
m
Every
Engineer
Knows
That to run a Steam Plant Economically
you must have Dry Steam. The only
efficient method to adopt to ensure your
steam being free from water is to lead
the water with the steam to a proper
collector, and discharge it through a
Steam Trap. But you must have a Trap
that is Reliable and does not Leak.
THE “SENTINEL”
High Pressure STEAM TRAP
Is Tested to 2501 b. Pressure, and is guaranteed
to remain tight even after much use.
LET US SEND YOU PARTICULARS.
& SINCLAIR
ney.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Pluming,
Patent “ Nelyambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Pluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work.
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
WOODWORKERS
It pays you to instai
99
Tools,
li
ss?§
Jointers, Band Saws, Swing Saws, etc.
The name is a guarantee of quality and accuracy. Their
efficiency has been proved by years of practical use, and that
is one of the reasons why critical users everywhere recom-
mend a«* SILVER.” There are other reasons, too; and
these are fully explained in Catalogue. Write and tell us of
your woodworking requirements, or call and inspect.
PARKE LACY CO. LTD.,
> ■
Engineers and Machinery Merchants, 60 Clarence- Street, SYDNEY.
; ■
THE“CARD” CONCENTRATOR
MODEL “D” PATENTED.
m
m
SPECIAL DECKS for COARSE and FINE SANDS,
as used by the leading Australasian mines on
TIN, COPPER, GOLD, SILVER, LEAD, WOLFRAM, etc.
The "CARD ” is manufactured ONLY by the
SOLE LICENSEES—
N.
w
\
r 1
•*
M
Equitable Building, Sydney.
Church Lane, Melbourne.
Camomile St. Chambers, London.
