

DEWAR’S
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Street, Syflney,
—FOR —
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAQH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And at Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
eustage bennett, Cenerai Manager.
ETuliiHliini
i
:BCQJ3i
-
Ijadley’s Orient (jotel.
Richardson’s
Wine 8 Spirit Stores,
68 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
158 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
r — '“xd* l
Bottle, Case or Gallon at Wholesale Price.
NTTHMC
umwmJ
CHUBB'S
SPRINGLESS
LOCKS
JUNKET made from „
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs
HANSEN’S
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
TvjaS
The Best for Rough Roads.
The impregnated rubber-cord foundation of these tyres enables
them to resist moisture, strain and friction. Catalogue free.
THE SILyERTOWN RUBBER CO., Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne.
Royal
Dutch
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY.
%
lil
M
:h5
&
Ul
, *
A Den Panelled with
This little sketch in Mr. Mark Mitchell’s Billiard Room at Manly gives you some idea of the way Amiwud can be used to
advantage. Looks well, doesn’t it? YOU can get the same effect in your house at little expense. You can have the
panelling in Golden Oak, Weathered Oak, Mahogany or Jenisero. Would you let us send you a booklet of illustrations
and some samples?
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO.
CKailis House,
D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager,
Manufacturers of Malthoid,
BULLOCH LADES
• •' ( > . V - '• ' • - :• • • 4 . ;• #
WHISKIES
B.L
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
S .V. O.
QUEEN OF STATES
CHOICE m
BACoOsi9 A NS
Telegraphic Address-BACON, Murarrie, Queensland
HELIDON SPA is the only Australian Mineral
Water with Pennine Osmotic Properties.
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
Phillip St.. Sydney, mrf
The Bulletin
Yol. 35.—N0. 1819.]
[Thursday, December 24, 1914.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS
ON ANY SUBJECT
If Not in Stock Procured from
England.
Write to Us. We welcome inquiries.
LTD., 238
STREET, SYDNEY.
mustdie:
MON POISONOUS POWDER.
THE GREAT INSECT DESTOyS
Hies.
Fleas.
Bugs. .
Mosquitoes.
S 5
The New Non-Poisonous Powder.
“ Mustdie ”
Certain Death to All Insects.
Full directions with each Tin.
Burn it —that’s one way.
Sprinkle with the “MUSTDIE” Blower
—that’s the other way.
But even a small quantity dusted on
the pillow at bedtime will keep
away Mosquitoes.
The “MUSTDIE” Blower is recom-
mended to be used, for it is not only
economical, but the powder is distri-
buted more effectively, and we want
you to get the best results out of every
ounce of the powder.
Sold everywhere. Chemists, Grocers,
Storekeepers, 9d. per tin. [2
The Red Page
The Witch-Maid
I wandered in the woodland a morning in the
spring,
I found a glade I had not known, and saw an
evil thing.
I heard a wood-dove calling, as one that loves
and grieves,
The sun was shining silver on the small bright
leaves,
Oh, it was very beautiful, the glade that I
had found!
I peeped between the slender stems, and there
upon the ground "
A man was lying dead, and from the spear-
wound in his side
The sluggish blood had ceased to flow, and
yet had hardly dried.
Oh, the shining of the leaves,
The morning of the year!
Oh, how could any die to-day, with life so
young and dear?
My feet were tied with horror, I could not
turn to run;
A light breeze tossed the branches, the
shadow and the sun
Across the dead face shifted —it seemed to
change and twitch—
When from the trees beyond me stepped a
white young witch.
I prayed that I ivas hidden, she never
turned her head,
But picked her footsteps daintily and
stooped beside the dead;
She touched him ivith her hanging hair and
stroked him with her hand,
Still gazing like a little child that does not
understand,
For she had strayed from Elfland, where
death has never come,
She knew not why his side was torn, nor
why his mouth was dumb.
She sat her down beside him and joined her
finger-tips,
And smiled a strange and secret smile that
curved her thin red lips;
She wore a veil of purple about her body
sweet
And little silver sandals on her smooth, pale
feet;
Her black hair hung as straight as rain and
touched the dead man's eyes,
He smiled at her in answer, a scornful smile
and wise.
She played with him awhile as might a
panther-kitten play,
Most horrible it was, and yet I could not
look away —
I needs must watch her motions, her cruel,
supple grace,
The delicate, swift changes of her sharp-cut
face;
Till suddenly she wearied, and, rising from
her knees,
All in one lovely movement, like a sapling
in the breeze,
She gazed on him who would not play, with
gathering surprise —
The man she did not -understand, though she
was very wise—
She drew her veil around her, her whiteness
showing through,
And gazed; and still unceasingly there came
the wood-dove’s coo.
Oh, the stirring of the spring,
The calling of the dove!
Why does he lie so cold, so cold, when I am
here to love?
Her long, strange eyes were narrowed to
threads of shining green,
She touched the broken spear-point the
ivound’s red lips between,
She touched it with her careless foot, and
yet he did not stir,
Dull fool that lay with open eyes and ivould
not look at her!
She turned away in anger and raised her
arms on high,
Her straight white arms that questioned the
pure, pale sky,
The thousand slender tree-stems soon hid
the way she went,
As they who hold a secret and therewith
are content.
The dead man smiled in silence; a strange
thought in me said,
If I had heard her speak at all then I too
should be dead:
Her voice—what would her voice be? — and
then I fled, afraid,
The spell was loosed that bound me to the
evil glade.
Oh, the flowers in the grass,
The wood-dove in the tree ;
From magic and from sudden death, Good
Lord, deliver me !
Dorothea Mackellar, in iir The Witch maid
and Other Verses.”
J*
Dorothea Mackellar begins to peter out.
Her latest collection of poems, titled The
Witch-Maid and O.V. (Dent, 3s. Gd.), con-
tains 41 poems, and of these 16 are reprinted
from her earlier volume, The Closed Door
and O. V. She was right *to reprint the
earlier poems; . for some of these are the
best in the present book. “The Witch-
Maid” is a poorer poem than “Settlers” ;
against “My Country” she can put only
dainty trifles like “An Old Song” and “The
Explorer” ; though “September,” slight as
it is, recaptures a flicker of the old fire.
Compare her earlier “Color,” with her new
“Colors of light.” The former has a stanza
like this: —
Great saffron sunset clouds, and larkspur
mountains,
And fenceless miles of plain,
And hillsides golden-green in that unearthly
Clear shining after rain.
“The Colors of Light” is prose: a
catalogue.
Sheen of the bronze-wing; blue of the crane;
Fawn and pearl of the lyrebird’s train;
Cream of the plover; grey of the dove- —
These are the hues of the land I love.
Even in “The Witch-Maid” Miss
Mackellar pauses to tell us of her eerie
horror, instead of making us feel it. A
poet must be judged by his best: it is
Dorothea Mackellar’s misfortune that she
has already spilled of her best in so
prodigal a fashion. We are riglit to resent
a weakening of so brilliant and promising a
talent. She is her own judge. Yet it must be
remembered that . she can fall far and
yet eompel our delight. There are poems
among the new ones that, if she had been
a beginner, would have had praise unstinted.
But we must remember the name of the
author. Just for a taste of the new
Dorothea Mackellar, take this pleasant
“Riding Rime” :
Mount, mount in the morning dew;
A man loved me when the world teas new.
Ride, ride while the dawn is cool:
I was angry and he was a fool.
Ride, ride through the shadows grey:
I told him to go arid he went away.
Ride, ride through the sun’s first gold;
I go alone now the world is old.
Ride, ride, for your horse is good;
He never came to me or understood.
Ride, ride, and you’ll travel far;
1 tore my heart out and hid the scar.
Ride . with a man at your bridle-rein —-
My man never will come again.
Ride, ride, for the sun is strong:
Oh, but a lonely road can be long!
Ride, ride, for the light grows dim:
What of the others? I wanted him.
Home, home, for the tale is told:
I was young and now I am old.
Society
It is time to talk of serious things. Amid
the turmoil of the world-war, let us pause
and reflect on the eternal verities. From
the smoke and shock of the battle let us
softly slip away to the world that really
matters. Let us quietly consider The Ways
of Society, by Mrs. Danvers Delano
(Laurie).
Society is the world of women, the world
they have invented, the world they want.
Woman’s unrecognised genius has here ample
scope. Laboriously they have constructed a
world of their own. They are its rulers, they
are its chief inhabitants. The spinsterettes
may occasionally make a little noise by
smashing a few of the things that constitute
the man-world ; but their numbers are few
compared with the numbers who are either
already denizens of the immense and elabo-
rate edifice that is called “Society,” and the
horde of women who anxiously besiege its
jealously-guarded portals. Society is Paradise
on earth—for women. Its inhabitants owe
allegiance to rulers not elected, not even
hereditary. And the mass of women in this
haven of delight obey their unofficial
rulers’ ukases with a deep feminine submis-
siveness, an abject slavery. And patiently
waiting outside the barred gates are most of
the women of the earth, clamoring, wheedling,
bribing, in the life-long effort to pass those
luring portals.
Some do get in, paying the price. And
once in they tremble. For how are they
going to keep in? What are the rules, un-
codified, nn-promulgated, that they must
obey on penalty of disgraceful expulsion?
Luckily a ministering angel waits inside the
gates, eager to take the poor pilgrims by
the hand and lead them to their place in the
adoring throng. Her name is Mrs. Danvers
Delano.
“I have written this little book in the
hope that it may be of service to those people
whom unkind circumstances have prevented
from taking their place in the Social World
during their early years, and who, having at
length been favored by fortune, feel some
natural diffidence in making their first
entry.” Note the almost divine condescen-
sion' of Mrs. Danvers Delano, whom now we
place at your disposal.
&
“In paying a first call, always make _it
about 3.30, so that you may avoid being in-
vited to tea and do not in any way clash
with a late luncheon.” You must make it
evident that you haven’t come for Food.
The ritual of leaving cards is an elaborate
one. Our suburban Society leaders may
note that if your guest has a husband you
must leave two of your husband’s cards and
turn up the top left-hand corner if there
are any others in , the family. But before
you reach this felicity you have to squeeze
past the sentries at the gate. Your guide
suggests various stratagems. One is to take
a house in a fashionalde square. “To be
sandwiched between the aristocracy is quite
a good beginning. . . .For instance, supposing
you have young children, nurses and gover-
nesses often fraternise in the gardens, and
the children begin a friendship which some-
times leads to them attending the same fin-
ishing school.” Thus you may climb in over
the dead bodies of your children. Mbs. Dan-
vers Delano assumes that it is worth while
climbing in. Even your husband must be
sacrificed. “He is put on the shelf long
before middle age, he must always wear a
complaisant smile, and if he looks amiable
he will even be tolerated at his own magni-
ficent entertainments.” At the balls that you
give hot suppers are universal. Society
people, “when seeing too many cold things”
about, are apt to ask, “What is there hot?”
Such remarks are not regarded as rude —in
society. After 2 a.m. “kidneys, bacon and
beer” are inquired for. Also, if you are giv-
ing your ball in an hotel “allow the young
men to go in to supper over and over again.”
Apparently Society young men do these
things. And ‘-‘young men won’t be intro-
duced. It is better to abstain from present-
ing them; they may possibly only bow and
pass on.” It is surely high time for these
customs to be introduced to- Sydney.
When at a dinner be bright. Mrs. Dan-
vers Delano tells a charming anecdote in
illustration. There was a pause in the con-
versation. till a young lady remarked that
she had heard that whiskers were becoming
fashionable in Paris. “This opened the way
for reminiscences of Dundreary whiskers,
Piccadilly weepers, etc. . . .1 merely give this
as an example of what may be made out of
practically nothing at all.” Brilliant, wasn’t
it?
The entrance to Society is difficult if you
come “from the colonies.” “A good lady
from the colonies was once invited to lunch
in a fashionable square. She arrived half an
hour too soon, and took off her toque and
veil in the drawing-room, to the amusement
of her hostess.” Dreadful!
Apparently dinner and supper are respon-
sible for most of the proposals in Society.
“A man feels himself carried away, and pro-
poses, without reflection at a ball, after
supper, after dinner.... I am told on quite
good authority that nowadays no proposal
can be taken seriously unless it is made in
the morning.” At any time later, to put it
more frankly than even Mrs. Danvers Delano
ventures, he is likely to be drunk. A useful
hint, when a man is marrying money, is
never to put pen to paper. Never write to a
friend, as one of Mrs. Danvers, Delano’s
friends did, that your fiancde was “a good
deal to swallow.” And when in the presence
of “royalty” “behave yourself like a well-
brought-up child, do not speak unless ad-
dressed, do not sit down until they give the
word, do not take refreshments unless they
invite you to do so.” Mary McCommon-
wealth thankfully makes a mental note.
As to attire, full directions are given for
every conceivable occasion. Bedroom or
carpet slippers are “distinctly for the lower
middle class.” So are false teeth. “If they
must go, then never have false ones which
offend, the eye and make people shudder and
think before inviting you to dinner.” After
this there will be a slump in the Sydney
dentistry business.
Never call with your pet dog. It inightn t
like it. And if you do take him to dine out,
do not cultivate his passion for eating span-
gles off the evening dresses during dinner.
This is apt to be considered impolite, even in
a pet dog. And when staying with your dog-
in the country it is not considered correct
to make his toilet every morning upon a
large-sized Burke on the hall table. Don t
brush him, anoint him, comb him out and
scent him to the detriment of the book’s
cover, as a male friend of Mrs. Danvers
Delano did. Delightful people, the inhabi-
tants of Society ! And it is inadvisable to
take your pet dog to a house that has a
neighbor who keeps dogs, too. As Mrs.
Danvers Delano puts it, with politeness
though without grammar: “It is most annoy-
ing when, on starting out for a walk with
your own dog, your neighbor’s ill-trained
dogs come rushing after you, barking furi-
ously. Supposing a nervous friend happens
to be with you, or one suffering from a weak
heart, they would naturally be quite upset.”
When writing letters, “ ‘Sincerely yours’
is considered more subtle than ‘Yours sin-
cerely.’ ” Do you want to “quite stamp”
yourself? Then speak of a “slop-basin” or
call a table-napkin a “serviette.” Never “in-
troduce” anybody. Ask to be allowed to
“present” him. Never admit that anybody
is dead. lie has merely “passed over.”
Don’t speak of your car: always say “the
car.” Even in giving your servant notice
people fortunate enough to be in Society
and to be able to dismiss maids, merely say,
“When is your time tip?” And, above all,
remember that “colonial people often omit
to aspirate their h’s.” But even Mrs. Dan-
vers Delano admits that there is only one
way to acquire the proper manner. “Certain
well-bred peoole know, as it were by in-
stinct, how to express themselves at all
times....We must strive to emulate their
example, and bv means of propinquity be-
come ourselves as they are.”
J*
It is a delightful picture that Mrs. Dan-
vers Delano draws of this Paradise on earth,
this Mecca of womankind. The inhabitants
are bored when they are not over-eating or
drunk, and when they are drunk they pro-
pose. But already big guns are battering at
the walls of Society, aeroplanes are dropping
rude bombs upon coronet and parasol, and
machine guns are mowing down the young
men who won’t be introduced. In the great
cleaning-up, of which this war is the instru-
ment. Society and all its stupidities and syn-
copancies and snobberies will fall. In the
new, Spartan, clean civilisation of sober
virtues and simple tastes Society will be
spelt with a small “s.” Meantime we must
make the most of Mrs. Danvers Delano.
Australian
A Parson in the Australian Bush, by
Charles 11. S'. Matthews, has been commended
on this page as a decent sort of bloke, even
though, professionally, he was a wowser.
Now Matthews tells the story of his Aus-
tralian mate, Bill: a Bushman (Arnold).
The point of view of Matthews, who was a
Brother of the Good Shepherd while he was
out here, is curious to us mere Australians.
Bill, whose story he tells, will appear to
every Australian a commonplace, dashed
ordinary bloke: to the English parson Bill
appears, for that very reason, an exotic,
foreign type, something akin to the melo-
dramatic ' cowboy, extinct except for a few
flickering reappearances upon the film._ Who
in Australia would think of putting Bill into
? book? There are so many Bills about.
\nd which of our innumerable Bills would
take the trouble to read about any particu-
lar Bill? But Bill, to the English parson-
age, is a hero: and for that parsonage Bill:
a Bushman has been written.
It must not be supposed that Matthews
has exaggerated Bill ; for the Gentle Eng-
lish Reader Bill needs no exaggeration.
Matthews likes Bill, though he cannot help
the intrusion of his professional wowsensm.
lie confesses to a feeling that his gentle
English parishioners may "think it odd that
a clergyman should edit the story of such
questionable proceedings as many of those
Bill narrates.” But Matthews is willing to
risk it. He admits that he owes Bill as
much as, perhaps more than, Bill owes him.
For ourselves, we "think it odd” that Bill
should entrust to a clergyman’s hands the
editing of his questionable proceedings. We
would prefer Bill’s more luqid, possibly more
lurid, prose. However, as Matthews con-
fesses that he is responsible only £o:r the
spelling, grammar and punctuation, Bill may
be as ordinary as his story Certainly Bill s
adventures are the adventures of every Out-
backer, except his experiences with "the
Wild Australia Show” in Singapore and
other dark-brown places. Plain Bill figured
upon the nosters as "Happy Bill, the Mad
Bull Eider.” And though Bill admits that
he doesn’t know whether the “mad” belonged
to him or the bulls, he says it fitted them
both. In that poster we have the explana-
tion of Matthews’ book. To the gentle Eng-
lish oarson we are all mad bull riders, we
are all Wild Australians.
This “human document” is dull, as all
human documents are. But possibly, to
the English parish, Bill: a Bushman is the
quintessence of wildness and mad bull riding.
But Matthews had done his job faithfully.
Bill, we learn, is now driving a mail-coach.
Let the parson pronounce the benediction
over Bill. “Whatever else you may say, or
feel, about Bill, you can’t help feeling that
he is somehow intensely alive. W herever
he goes he makes rriends more quickly than
any other man I know —and friends of all
sorts. Personally, I should feel sorry for the
man who didn’t take to Bill when he met
him. I should feel that there was something
wrong with him, that he was somehow lack-
ing in humanity.”
Arthur Vincent Green, who bishes in
Ballarat, publishes a large selection of his
country sermons under the title, Australian
Sermons (Macmillan, 3s. (kl.). It'was the
Council of the Diocese of Ballarat who re-
quested him —for the benefit of the Hono-
rary Lay Headers. His Bishness of Ballarat
is modest; he admits that “there is nothing
new or remarkable about these discourses ;
and this page cordially agrees. “Hut they
are Australian,” he happily adds. Appar-
ently the lay reader has had hitherto only
printed English sermons to draw upon for
his discourse, and the patriotic and protec-
tionist Episcoballarat points out that the
imported sermon “scarcely meets Australian
requirements.” The seasons are inverted,
and the allusions are not always appropri-
ate. There is one, however, that resumes an
appropriateness in this continent that it has
lost in England: that is, the reference to
Hell as a hot place. To us a hot Hell would
be—well, “hell” ; to the Englishman a hot
hell would be a seasonable change from his
own climate. If sermons are necessary out-
back, let them be Australian Sermons.
J*
Well, we leave it to you! A Marriage of
Souls, a Metaphysical Novel, by Veni
Coooer-Mathieson (The Truth-Seeker 1 üb-
lishing Company, Perth, W.A.) contains:
(1) a portrait of “yours in truth, tem
Cooper-Mathieson,” (2) a dedication to
“The Children of the Resurrection,” com-
posed solely of Bible quotations, (3) a
foreword, beginning with greetings “to the
four hundred and forty and four thousand
having His Father’s name written in their
foreheads and who follow the Lamb whither-
soever He goeth,” also a statement that the
author offers to the Children of the Resur-
rection “these first-fruits of her Resurrected
Soul,” (4) a prologue contaanimr this inter-
esting discovery: “As there is a mystic dual-
ity in unity revealed between America and
Australia, the first ‘A’ represents the mod-
ern Bethlehem and the second ‘A’ symbol-
ises the Nazareth of these latter days. Yet
in these two a third is included, the
‘7, 7 which is New Zealand, the Zion of the
New Dispensation”; also a statement that
Australasia is the resurrected Lemuria and
the Promised Land. (5) 702 pages of
metaphysical novel. We have a vague sus-
picion that this is The Higher Thought;
but this page does not guarantee this. Any-
body who reads the work through is entitled
to have her own opinion.
Kipling’s “Recessional” (Methuen) can
now be obtained in a gorgeously illuminated
missal form, for one shilling.


A
vae
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for SILVERWARE SATISFACTION
Consult our Illustrated Price List of ELECTROPLATED WARE, CUTLERY and CLOCKS. Write
for a copy, post free on request; it places selections from the immense variety we offer at the
command of everyone in Australia.
ri:
n
No. Cx34. —D inner Cruet,
Klectro Silver-plate on Nickel Sil-
ver, with 4 Cut Glass Bottles, 20/-
]Vo. 1049.—Entree Dishes,
oblong shape. Electro Silver-plate
on Nickel Silver, 10in., choice de-
sign 77/6 pair
No. Cx2o.—Cut Glass But-
ter Dish and Knife, Elec-
tr° Silver-plate on Nickel Sil-
ver •••• 8/9
No. 1047.—Entr<
Oval, Electro-plate
ver, loin
D i s h e s,
Nickel Sil-
• 58/0 pair
IFT
No. ox 7.. —Cut Glass Jam
<>i* Honey Jar, mounted
Jwectro Silver-plate on Nickel
silver, with 5p00n.... 20/-
Ao. ox9.—Teapot, Electro Silver-plate on
Britannia Metal, embossed design.... 21 A
No. oxl2.—Oake Basket, Electro Silver-
plate on Nickel Silver, Chased design, 22/6
JSo. Cx23. Biscuit Box, Electro Sil-
ver-plate on Britannia Metal, fern de-
Bign 45/-
m
No. Cx27.—Dinner Cruet, Elec-
tro Silver-plate on Nickel Silver, 4
Crystal Class Bottles ... .... 22/-
M
No. CxSO. —Sugar & Cream Stand,
Electro Silver-plate on Nickel Silver —
32/6
No. 0x32.—1j ii n c h
Cruet, Electro Silver-
plate on Nickel Silver,
with 4 Cut Glass
Bottles 21/-
m
i
ft
No. Cx2s.—L u n c h
Cruet, Electro Silver-
plate on Nickel Silver,
with 4 Cut Glass
Cottles 14/G
m.
No. 0x22. Cake Basket, Electro Silver-
plate on Nickel Silver, embossed design 30/-
No. Cxls. Waiter, Electro Silver Plate on
Nickel Silver, engraved design, length, 14in. -
32/0
a
No. CxlB. — lnkstand, Electro Silver-plate on Britannia
Metal, engraved design 32/-
No. Cx2l. Inkstand, Electro Silver-plate 'on Britannia
Metal, engraved Glass Flower Vase 52/6
No. 1029.—Afternoon Tea Spoons and Tongs, Electro
Silver-plate, in Silk and Plush-lined Case 15/-
Various Other Designs from 8/- to 19/-
Postage must
be added to
the prices
quoted.
Price List of
Electroplate
post free on
request.
a
&
No. Cxli. Flower stand, Electro Silver-
plate on Nickel Silver, pretty design.. 42/-
1034. —Afternoon Tea or Cake Forks,
Electro Silver-plate on Nickel Silver, half-dozen, in
Silk and Plush lined Case, with Pearl Handles 17/0
Without Case, half-dozen 13/3
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


. ' MW
isni
• ■ ■.
r-^y^s
ri
.22 CALIBER RIFLES
For target shooting or hunting small game, Win-
chester .22 Caliber Rifles give entire satisfaction,
because they are made with the same care and
skill as the “big guns.” There are three different
Winchester .22 caliber repeaters and four different
single shots made. From this array you can surely
pick out a rifle that will suit you. Your dealer has
them. Remember that
YOU CAN'T GO WRONG ON A WINCHESTER.
*
LIFE
ADAi' u i
“s*! i&KI •>'
aV"*r
/OS* 3
U
Let in the Sunshine of Health
Pure and healthy at the sunlight, VITADATIO commences to brighten up your
existence from the FIRST dose. It is a great life-giving tonic, strong in its might
as a conferrer of new health and vigor.
This great Blood and Body Builder and Renovator has successfully cured suf-
ferers of Tumour, Bright’s Disease, Hydatids, Liver Troubles, Debility. Chronic
Indigestion, Insomnia, Nervousness, etc.
Why not benefit from my experience of treating cases like yours? Tell me
where you suffer, how you suffer, and my advice mind you, it s given free will
be immediately at your service. Send coupon for a sample.
5. A. PALMER, 439 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
Send me post free sample of Vitadatio, for which l enclose //- in stamps.
Name
Address
It Pays to Keep Well.
If you know what good health really means you
will know that it pays to keep yourself well.
Changes of climate, occupation, diet, etc., all
tend to upset your balance, but you never need
fear any trouble if you take now and then
Cockle’s Pills
A REPUTATION OF OVER 100 YEARS.
By taking a medicine such as this occasionally, say once
or twice a week, you ensure that perfect regular working
of the bodily functions which is the basis of all good health.
When you feel out-of-sorts, “ liverish,” low-spirited, have,
headache, dyspepsia, yellow skin, and no appetite, then
more than ever do you
need Cockle's Pills —the
Doctor’s medicine which
doctors recommend.
In Days Gone By
fashions in dress were very different to
those of to-day, but there is one fashion
that came into vogue a century ago which
still exists, and is, in fact, more popular
to-day than ever, and that is the fashion of
taking Cockle’s Pills for disorders of the
liver and digestion.
COCKLE’S PILLS
of Chemists through-
out the World.
Prices in England,
llli 2/9 * box
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
•jiggs
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
Insist on “Sineleton s’ —refuse all substitutes.
COLORED POST-CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free. C>d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney.
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won’t
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quicklv and surelv with
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
“ON THE HOF.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
BROOKS 890 Patent Road Saddle. Made in several
sizes. It is impossible to make a better saddle than a
BROOKS —at any price—and only the unequalled
BROOKS experience can produce one as good.
BROOKS
OF ALL
DEALERS
HEAR
LATEST 8-TONE
Mears Ear-phone
The final triumph of the inventor of the first successful multi-tone
Ear-phone. IF YOU ARE DEAF, this perfected instrument will enable
you to hear DISTINCTLY, PERFECTLY.
Eight Tones ! 8 different adjustments to suit every condi-
tion of the ear. Instantly changed by a touch of the
finger. Just as easily and as satisfactorily regulated for
the hearing as field-glasses are for the sight. Thus ensur-
ing perfect hearing in all degrees of deafness.
The Hears Ear-phone is based on the microphonic sound-
reproducing principle. Highly, sensitive and self-adjusting it intensifies the faintest sounds to just
that degree required in ordinary conversation, or in the Church or Lecture Hall. Comfortably carried
in the vest pocket or pinned to the blouse. Call and test it free, or write for full particulars.
Australasian
Representative—
A. E. SLADE,
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 Ceorge Street,
SYDNEY.
SYDNEY: A. E. Slade, Bernard’s Buildings, 387 George Street.
MELBOURNE: L. G. Callaway & Down, Tuckett Chambers, 3GI Collins Street.
BRISBANE: Carl Zoeller Ltd., 246 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE: Clias. Balfour, Central Chambers, Charles Street.
HOBART: Chas. Davis Ltd., Elizabeth Street.
AUCKLAND: Clem Bartley, 8 Ponsonby Road.
Mears Ear-plione Co. Inc., 45 West 34th St., New York, U.S.A.
TOOTH h CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney


a*
RENGER’S
is the
most easily
digested
Food
obtainable .
It is expressly
devised to be fully
nourishing when
natural digestion
isenfeebled, whether
in child or adult.
It is prepared with fresh
new milk and forms a dainty
and delicious cream, which
fully satisfies “hunger-faint-
ness,” and soothes internal
discomfort. Benger’s is the
safe food in illness, and in
convalescence promotes
rapid recovery.
Delicate children thrive on it.
Food
For CHILDREN.
INVALIDS and Ihe AGED
is sold by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
Benger's Booklet—A little work of authority on
the special feeding of Children, Tnvalids.and the
Aped, will he sent post free on application to r
BENGER S FOOD, Ltd.,Manchester, Eng.
Branch Offices— NF.W YORK (U.S.A.) 92, William Street
SYDNEY (N.S.w.) 117, Pitt Street
Canadian Agents— National Drug Co., Ltd., Montreal.
180 A
!A)R
UM
ROW
Don’t Throw
Away Your
Williams’
Talc. Tins.
Post four empty
tins (any odor)
to the J. B.
Williams Co.,
Box 98, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and we
will send you
without ch a rge
Williams’.
exquisite Silver-
pi a ted Vanity
Box, with
Powder
Puff and
Concentra-
ting Mir-
ror, exact-
ly like il-
lustration.
ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
3
DO YOU WANT
A FAT PAY
ENVELOPE?
Is Where
Our Training
Affects You
Are you satis-
fied with your
present position
and salary ?
Trained Men
receive Big Pay.
The I.C.S. can give you a
thorough training in your
own home and in your spare
time at reasonable cost. I.C.S
courses have been raising salaries
for over 20 years, and can help you
to raise yours. 200 courses to
choose from. Write for free prospectus.
INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENCE SCHOOLS
(COLONIAL) LTD.,
Dept. 8.Y.,
26-30 Jamieson Street, Sydney.
I require information concerning your method of
leaching:—
KIECTRICAL ENGINGERING,
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING,
book-keeping,
SALESMANSHIP,
ARCHITECTURE,
FARMING.
Name
Address
rrr'Tr.rynwTny ~.i,:^T.n?.T!TOnrEminrriLS
1111
1
BONNIN&TON’iS
CARKACSEEN
■
IRISH MOSS
O *S*H!
The Cough Remedy for
Australian Homes.
Safe and Reliable.
Rood for Old and
Young. ‘
Try Bonnington’s for
Stubborn Colds and
Bronchitis, and you
will be well satisfied.
BEWARE. OF
CHEAP SUBSTITUTES
OESUREYOU (iET
DONNIN6IONSIRIYH. MOSS
-a*
&
Can be Developed to Normal.
Jt matters not if von have been tbin and seraggly for years, even if you
never were properly developed your measurements can be increased to normal
and your figure nicely rounded out to pleasing, plump proportions. It is
done every day for others —why not you ?
Manager. Falliere Co. Hekeia, N.Z.
Dear Sir. —T am well pleased with the results from using Flesh-
Food and the general improvement in my eondition, for which
I thank you very much indeed, for my husband and 1 are both
well pleased.
Front the very beginning I improved wonderfully—the giddiness that hud bothered
me for years disappeared, ns did the rheumatism from my legs. Both of these
troubles had caused me mneh severe suffering.
M.v limbs were thinnest, and they began io noticeably, increase first of all, ending
in a nine-ineli increase in ray hip measurement. A general development now became
noticeable,-and my chest and bust filled out.
I had liow gained all I needed—a full stone in weight. As I have lost neither
weight nor measurements since stopping the treatment, I consider the results per-
manent. , r Yours very truly, MRS. H. HODGES.
Flesh-Food is totally harmless in every respect. Its efficacy is beyond question, and its
use is no demand upon the subject's time. Many cases have gained up to six pounds a week,
and an increase in bust measurement up to eight and ten inches is possible. Flesh-Food offers
relief and development to Ibe thousands of chronically thin women who have despaired of ever
possessing unpresentable figure. Tt is a nerve and i issue food treatment that adds weight and
permanent development lo attenuated women. Guarantee given in every case accepted.
Let us send
you a Free
Sample.
TRIAL SAMPLE FREE
We publish an interesting book on the
subject of attenuation and development
and will send same and a Free Sample Treatment to you FR.RK OF OIIAROF
upon receipt of a 2d. stamp to pay part postage. All communications are
treated as strictly confidential. (1823)
FAULIERE FEESH-FOOD CO., 1103 ASH STREET,
SYDNEY.
THE PLANT
SYLO
Ice made by this machine.
‘‘HAND ICE
MACHINE”
Makes 2 lbs. of
Hard Ice in any
Climate in 15
minutes.
Guaranteed by us,
the Australasian Agents.
Agents wanted in other
States and Towns.
Write for particulars.
Price - - £l2/10/-
ELLIOTT, DONALDSON & DOUGLAS LTD.,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
In replying to the Advertisement, please mention this paper.
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. J. Ilinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W.,
writes
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Soz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since 1 last used
tobacco, and, although 1 am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have- the least desire to
smoke, therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizzi-
ness, Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I
have every reason to believe were caused through the
use of tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are
only remembered as a hideous nightmare. I eat
and sleep well, and feel fit to face the world again.
It will give me great pleasure to recommend your
remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
[i.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Hava you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian. 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia. and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices. 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Youth Was Young.
Ah, in the days when youth was young,
And men were men, and beer was beer.
Young hearts about their pleasures flung
Without a sign of sordid fear,
Such as will sometimes hold us, here.
Oh. I am envious of the days
When young men spent a mint of gold,
And always plenty more could raise;
When life a long procession rolled
Of all the gayness life can hold.
They drank like gods, and fought like men,
Defiance flung to every care;
And woo’d a lady now and then
With conquering and gallant air,
These heroes of the days that were.
I learn it all from gay old dogs:
Bald-headed men. with tottering gait—
Who probably in stocks and frogs,
In days of which they now relate
Looked gallant and immaculate.
Yet when I’m old and bald of pate,
And Time’s dead weight on cramped
limbs bear,
Perchance I also shall narrate
The things that happened in my year,
When youth was young and beer was
beer!
N.S.W.
HAMER.
Tempora Mutantur.
When first I met sweet Marion May
(My present wife, you know)
She’d watch whene’er my pen would stray.
And rippling rhymes would flow ;
She’d smile with pleasure at my jest.
And joy to read me at my best.
And list entranced unto my tale
Of joy and woe, of bliss and bale.
It mattered not if Wit were scant,
And Humor’s wings were lead,
If Hero talked in windy rant
And Plot had gone to bed ;
No dullness could her interest tame,
No flatness e’er evoke her blame;
The pathos always made her weep,
The bathos could not make her sleep.
But now my song, “The Golden Girl,”
She lias no time to hear;
My tender tale, “The Begum’s Pearl,”
Calls forth not half a tear;
When I declaimed my charming sketch.
“The Bishop and the Beauteous Wretch,”
Instead of praise in wifely wise,
She nodded there before my eyes.
Ah! Would she act the hypocrite,
As once in days of yore,
And here a pleasbd listener sit,
And just forget to snore;
If but, as in those golden days,
She’d lend me but an mince of praise,
And feign a smile, or coin a sigh,
How kind slm, how blest were I!
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER F
The Fallen Tree.
The forest clays are done
And doomed each ancient tree;
Man’s empire has begun —
Man—Nature’s enemy.
Now gleams the splitter's tent;
And now the axes ring
Above the loud lament
The startled magpies sing,
And break the gum-tree’s strength
Till now she crashes prone,
With branches bowed at length
And shattered trunk o’erthrown.
* * . * *
The forest days are done.
No more the fallen tree
Triumphant to the sun
Will rise in ecstasy,
With branches tipped with fire
And dancing leaves a-glimmer,
And thrill with mad desire
In noon’s warm haze and shimmer;
Or look beyond the ranges
To watch the wandering moon
Through cycles of her changes;
Or hear the wild winds croon :
Or draw the traveller over,
Some dusty swagman strayed
At sundown —shearer, drover,
To camp within her shade;
Or laugh with melodies
As dripping branches through
Gay parrots, golden bees
Once sipped her honey-dew.
The bullocks trudge, and’bow
Beneath great logs ; and then
The land will know the plough
And all the cares of men.
* * * *
The forest days are done,
And doomed each ancient tree.
Man’s empire has begun—-
Man. Nature’s enemy.,
He wages savage feud
(The birds fly further back),
And breaks the solitude
Along the forest track;
He hews the white gums down
For sake of wine and corn;
Or builds his sooty town.
- And leaves the bush forlorn.
The aloes wood is sold
(An Arab tale, and cruel)
Abroad, for more than gold,
And burnt at home for fuel.
Honored in Athens, Rome,
Such is the gum-tree’s lot:
But gashed and grubbed at home .
To clear the farmer’s plot.
VICTORIA.
LOUIS ESSON.


are you blocking profits
FROM COMING YOUR WAY?
Mr. Country Storekeeper, by having your shop dimly and
badly lighted? You can flood your" shop with Electricity—
the best-known display light—for a moderate sum. You can
generate your own Electricity with
“ Lister-Bruston ” Automatic
Electric-Lighting Plant.
This Plant (as illustrated complete) generates Electricity
automatically. The Engine and Dynamo start themselves
as soon as the lights are switched on. No costly storage
Battery is needed—the lights are lit direct from the Dynamo.
Delivered practically ready for connecting up to Shop
Wiring. May we talk it ovev with you in person or by post?
AGENTS : N.S.W. —W. C. Watson & Co., Ltd., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney
VlC.—Sutherland & Ashman, Flinders Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND—Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd., Creek Street, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALlA—Clutterbuck Bros., Adelaide.
£7O
HERE’S A COMPLETE ELECTRIC HOME-
LIGHTING PLANT FOR £7O.
It comprises the whole “box and dice” to give you Electricity in
every room of the home, out on the verandah, in your workshop,
in the stables —you can run the Wires anywhere and everywhere,
and this Plant will give you abundant Current.
It Costs One=and=Half Times Less Money to Erect
than Any Other Lighting System Known,
and it costs less to run, too. This Plant is absolutely an eye-
opener in House Lighting—beats Air Gas, Petrol Gas, etc., toi a
frazzle. The Price, £7O, is for the Set, comprising Engine,
Dynamo, Battery and Switchboard, F.0.R., Sydney—or we will
erect the Plant in any part of N.S.W. and wire the premises with
plain yet good fittings for £lOO, plus freight and mechanic’s fare.
The Plant is cranked up by hand, and carries our guarantee for
SIX MONTHS against fair wear and tear. Nothing so good as this
offer on the market —light in your home, and light on your pocket.
Call in and let us show you the Plants, or write to-day for
particulars.
W. G. WATSON &L CO. LTD.,
Suppliers of Everything: Electrical,
279 CLARENCE STREET; KENT STREET, SYDNEY
(Just round from the Town Hall).
£7O
HIM. ROD'S
ASTHMA POWDER
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE. Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all
cases of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
Price, 3/- per box, or a course of 8
Boxes for £l. Post free under
plain cover.
On Sale at all Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
For Picnics and
Party-nics
—For Every Xmas Holiday Outing.
—For Mid=day Luncheons.
—For Working Man, Business Man,
Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Sailor,
“REX” HAM PATE
is Tip-top. And you needn’t take our word for it. Just send the
boy round to the Grocer for a Tin. He will fetch you back NOT
one of those miserly little imported packages that looks like a
sample, but a good-sized tin, that will provide you with many
palatable sandwiches.
“Rex” Ham Pate is made from good ham ground fine for easy masti-
cation. Jt is nourishing, appetising and sustaining.
Procurable from all Grocers.
Ask for “ Rex ” Brand,
and take no other.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon,
Packers of “Rex" Pure Food Products,
Makers of “Rex” Small Goods,
(8$
o
i&s.
“WATERSHED”
Red Rubber Carden Hose is Australian made and the very best procurable.
“ ’T'is the Hose that makes the difference.”
-Jin x 3-ply, l/« ft., or 30ft., fitted ready for use 32/-
Carriage extra.
If your Storekeeper does not stock “WATERSHED,” send your order direct to us.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD., of all Rubber Goods,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. Also Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS
LOTION.
QUICKLY REMOVES
SKIN ERUPTIONS . .
ENSURING A
CLEAR COMPLEXION
The slightest Rash, faintest
Spot, irritable Pimples, dis-
figuring Blotches, obstinate
Eczema disappear by .applying
SU LPHOLIN E
Which renders the skin spot-
less, soft, clear, supple, com-
fortable.
For 42 Years.
BOTTLES 1/- ami 2/9.
SULPHOLINE
t T" c ' been the Remedy for
ERUPTIONS
PIMPLES
REDNESS
PSORIASIS
ROUGHNESS,
RASHES
ECZEMA
SCURF
ACNE
BLOTCHES
SPOTS
ROSEA
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists—
J. PEPPER & CO., LTD., Bedford Laboratories, LONDON, S.E., Eng.,
and can be obtained direct from them by post or from
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD .
Sulpholine quickly removes the effect of Sunscorch.
F'fapsiiipi
:'' : " : :
WSSmmi
■
j!iji§§M
%
..
is*
fjw
SIS
\
Si
I
■ V:
■
THE better the friend
the greater the reason
for treating him to
Thorne's!
The spirit of joviality pre-
vails wherever the 44 Black
Square" bottle is passed
round*
For 80 years the mellow-
ness, quality and distinc-
tive flavor of Thorne's
have been preferred by
connoisseurs*
Produced at Glenlivet, and
renowned as Scotch Whisky
“Incomparable”


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post ag a Newspaper.
You 35.—N0. 1819.
THURSDAY, DEGEM BER 24, 1914.
Prick 6d.
THE NEW ORDER.
YOUNG AUSTRALIA: “But where is your nice white old English heard, Santa Claus?”
FATHER CHRISTMAS: “Hush, my child. They cut it off. They found that it was made in Germany!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUIiSGRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
- For £1 6s. 6d. ner Annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas i> umber, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable-, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg ; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., hhl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and, D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. — lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. — \V. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Kates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
Iooz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., Bjoz. to 10oz., 21d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sd.; elsewhere, hoz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 24, 1914.
THE ART OF BEING UNREADY.
Despite all the efforts to promote an aspect
of affability among the Allies, it is difficult
to disguise the fact that the unpreparedness
of Britain has made some of its colleagues
wild —or at least peevish. They recognise
that towards the end of the disturbance
John Bull may be the strongest tower of
military defence, but they say that if Bull
had possessed a system of compulsory mili-
tary training, and had been able to tower a
few months earlier it would have made all
the difference. Certainly the British navy
proved itself fit for any emergency. It
went forth on the seas and protected Bull’s
country from invasion, and it did a lot for
commerce. Still, it didn’t defend the sea-
trade of Servia or Montenegro, for they have
none. Nor did it save the sea-trade of
Belgium, for the Gerhog owns Belgium’s one
vast port of Antwerp, and the job of buying
and selling on the waters is a dead thing
so far as King Albebt’s little State is con-
cerned. As regards Russia, the German is
still allowed to hold the gate of the Baltic
and the Turk the gate of the Mediterranean;
and as Russia’s principal land trade is cut
off by the war with Germany and Austria
and Turkey, it can only do a dribble of
business through Roumania, or Persia, 'or via
the Frozen Sea, or round by Vladivostock, in
Eastern Siberia. And France could prob-
ably have put up a fairly good fight for the
protection of its own mercantile marine,
which, at the best, isn’t an essential thing
to France. Britain has kept the ocean
highways clear for its own business, and for
the business of its own Dominions, and for
the trade of the United States and Argentina
and other neutral and ungrateful places. It
has demonstrated for its own profit that it
is mistress of the deep waters. Yet, as
already mentioned, its brethren are not ouite
satisfied.
* * * *
Britain had an even better reason than its
brethren for going into the war. It is
the one country which Germany hates with
a deadly hatred, and envies with an undying
enmity. The Gerhog wants oversea posses-
sions above all things, and Britain has the
most oversea possessions to lose. The
megalomaniac Kaiser desires command of the
sea —he once called himself “Admiral of the
Atlantic,” and he declared that his country’s
future wrns on the water; and Britain is the
one empire which has to be suppressed if the
Cassar of Berlin is to go admiralling in the
Atlantic, and to take over Neptune’s trident
from the lady who sits on a cart-wheel at
the back of the British penny. In the
famous “Song of Hate,” war with France or
Russia was described as a mere friendly row
among peoples who have no real objection
to each other and merely shoot occasionally
for exercise, but war with Britain was defined
as a gospel. To make Britain, with its
Teutonic population and its Teutonic royal
family, a Gerhog dependency; to annex
Canada, South Africa, Australia, Maoriland,
India and a few other possessions; and to
be Bull’s successor on the great fish-in-
fested deep—these are the deeds which
would give the Gerhog that “place in the
sun” for which he clamors. In fact, they
would give him nearly all the place and a
ruinous mortgage on the sun. Belgium
could have bought immunity, for the time
at least, by allowing Kaiser William’s
armies a free road into France. France
could have bought immunity, and probably
a handsome reward to boot, by lending its
fleet and some of its ports to facilitate the
Gerhog attack upon Britain. And if the
two fleets had combined it is just possible
that, by this pleasant Christmas day, there
would be no Britain left. These are mere
matters of conjecture; still the obvious fact
remains that if Belgium and France had
taken the primrose path, and gone into the
camp of the Triple Alliance the position of
Britain would have been very different from
what it is.
* * * *
The fact that Britain has done good
work at sea in defending its own commerce,
and that of Australia and India and
Canada and Egypt and South Africa, and
in protecting its own food supplies from
the United States and Argentina, and that
it has helped France to some extent —all
this (as mentioned at least twice already)
doesn’t prevent the other Allies remarking
that its contribution to.the real war is slow
and scanty. The quality of the British
troops is beyond reproach, but the countries
which refused to purchase immunity from
Gerhog aggression by conniving at the
Kaiser’s designs on Britain say inwardly
that the quantity isn’t up to much. Britain
has a much larger population than France,
and the British Empire contains more people
than any other empire in the world, or in
all the world’s history. Yet in the early
days of the annoyance George’s V.’s
country, though all its own interests were
at stake, contributed about one-tenth of the
Anglo-French army, while France supplied
nine-tenths. This unreadiness, caused by
dependence on a small voluntary force, and
the habit of scraping up raw recruits after
the trouble starts instead of having a
trained population ready all the time, is
likely to cost the Allies two needless years
of war, and £1,000,000,000 worth of ruin,
and many hundreds of thousands of lives,
and misery unspeakable. Britain is now
collecting recruits on a large scale, and it
is proud of the way they roll in. . Yet under
a compulsory system the Government could
raise, without any sensation or advertise-
ment, as many disciplined soldiers out of
Whitechapel or Hoxton in a week as it
can raise, oy the present method and with
all the present advertisement and bugle-
blowing, out of all London in six months.
The voluntary army is always late. Britain,
even now, hasn’t so many troops on actual
business as Servia. If it had stepped into
line with the same promptitude and compre-
hensiveness as Russia or France or Ger-
many or Austria or Servia or Montenegro,
there might have been no burnt and
ruined and desolated ' Belgium to-day.
The north of France need not have
been a scarred wilderness. The Kaiser
would probably have been finished in-
side three months, and comfortably
hanged; and industry would have re-
sumed at the old address. The ill-luck of
the Allies lay in the fact that the biggest
and richest of them was not prepared to do
anything on a large scale in the way of
land struggle, except state that it is a long
way to Tipperary.
* * * #
Yet Britain spends an enormous amount
of money on its little voluntary army. It
has been in the habit of “blewing” as much
on its military services as any other Euro-
pean country save Russia. Unfortunately
it doesn’t get large results. Most of its
great victories in the past, both by land and
sea, were won by more or less compulsory
service, for the voluntary idea always broke
down on an emergency. The compulsion
was never worked on a well-organised sys-
tem, for there was a hypocritical pretence
that nothing of the sort existed. So men
were stolen in the streets by night, or prigged
off ships on the high seas. Able-bodied
drunks who were doing short sentences for
non-payment of fines were spirited away to
serve in “his Majesty’s land or»sea forces” —
likewise, able-bodied debtors disappeared out
of the debtors’ nrison. In Ireland, at one
time, anybody who was accused of anything
might be impressed in the armjr or navy in-
stead of being tried, whereby many a harm-
less grocer who had been so foolish as to
ask a J.P. for his account was arrested at
9 p.m. on a charge of piracy or brigandage,
and was on his way to reinforce Welling-
ton’s army by 10. But nowadays the
British land defence is purely voluntary, ex-
cept for a militia service law which isn’t
enforced and for the spasmodic and irregu-
lar pressure brought to bear by a few en-
thusiasts upon banks and the like to sack
Percy, the high-collared clerk, unless he
joins the Territorials. Probably the future
will see a change. A country which has
compulsory education on almost every sub-
ject except that of saving the nation from
ruin is an anomaly. The lesson which Bull
has learned is that 2,000,000 men who can
strike like the very Devil in the first week
of the war are cheaper than 2,000,000 who
strike in the second year of the war.
HANS, AND HIS UNFORTUNATE
HABIT OF FOAMING.
It is the inherent weakness of the German
that he will let sentiment enter into
business. His two recent seafaring ex-
ploits are symptomatic of this infirmity.
A British Admiral sank one of his
Fleets. Hans not unnaturally got very
angry. His ancestors of bygone ages used
to discuss matters of State first drunk, then
sober. This is not a British gibe, but a
statement by Tacitus. Hans has dis-
carded the practice of discussing things
sober. On receipt of the news of the Battle
of the Falklands, he foamed so heavily that
the only place-names he could think of were
Dover and London, and as he simply couldn’t
do anything to London, he hurled himself,
still foaming, against the unshiftable bas-
tions of the Admiralty Pier at Dover. Though
portions of him were apparently sunk, and
the Pier remained as before, he seems to
have considered it good business, and to
have enjoyed the* outing, because, a few
days later, he risked two of his battle-
cruisers and some smaller vessels —say
£10,000,000 and roughly some 3500 of his
seamen —on the off-chance of blowing a few
civilians to pieces. Bearing in mind the
twin facts that his risks of total loss would
not have been taken by any insurance office
in the world, and that in no event could he
have hoped to achieve a military result, the
proceeding is redolent of his seismic tempera-
ment.
* * * *
At the present moment we know nothing
of the strategy and tactics which have been
employed in the great war. All we do
know is the central fact that four short
months have sufficed to batter the offensive
out of Hans. Sixteen Thursdays ago he
possessed the most perfect military machine
which the human mind had conceived of;
and now it lies out of gear, because a mili-
tary machine which is only useful for defen-
sive purposes is useful for nothing. In so
far as anything can be certain in this world,
it will be found that the explanation of this
breakdown lies in the fact that Hans
allowed sentiment to enter into business.
At a time when he should have been attend-
ing to dry details of commissariat, tallying
stores with a pencil and a check list in his
hand, carefully going over, by his own excel-
lent system of doublet-entry, long columns of
figures relating to boots, soup mugs, blood
sausages, saucepans and the rest, he found
it uninspiring and he foamed. It was the
British who were responsible for the froth
upon his whiskers. His Kaiser, with the
excited approval of Hans, announced at the
beginning of the war that the main objec-
tive of the German attack would be
“French’s contemptible little army.” This
manifesto relieved Joffre of all doubt
as to what the main objective of the German
attack would be, and enabled him to cause
the attack to be delivered upon that
segpaent of the battle line which he deemed
best suited to his general plan. Joffre is
the only great general in history who has
had this advantage over an enemy. Hans
is the only enemy in history who has pub-
lished reliable official information about his
future intentions. The net result of the
whole proceeding was that the British Army,
tiny as it was, saved both itself and France
from annihilation.
# * * *
But the price which Hans has had to pay
for this foaming would bankrupt anybody.
At one time he could have had Calais for
nothing, so to speak, but he was too busy
thinking out menus for sentimental anni-
versary-dinners in Paris to remember, and
so he tore past it. When Paris was wiped
off the slate for him, owing to his announce-
ment beforehand of the road he intended to
take, and after he had precariously, crawled
back into Belgium on a diet of turnip roots,
he remembered Calais. With more foamings
and vociferations he howled that he would
have it. As usual his intention was officially
confirmed by his Kaiser, and Joffre. was
in consequence able to interpose a mighty
army. The result was described by one
British officer as “sickening.” Hans was
met at every point and was mowed down,
drowned and blown to fragments. Muiatis
mutandis, the whole thing is occurring all
over again in the neighborhood of Warsaw.
If there were any reason to suppose that
Hans was some subtle Italian fellow of
the Renaissance, there would be reason for
deadly fear. But he has been such a fair-
haired, blue-eyed, forthright chap hitherto,
and so truthful, that we have ceased to
doubt his intention to try and carry through
his official announcements. If he were some
sallow fifteenth-centurf Florentine, we
might reasonably infer that the whole thing
was a complex preparation for the moment
when he would officially announce that he
was going to take some place at all costs
whilst he craftily went to take some other
place. But there is nothing of the Floren-
tine about Hans. One sufficing proof is
that he has already used up all the places.
He is just simply forthright, blue-eyed,
truthful Hans. A man of temperament. A
foamer.
THE TRANSCONTINENTAL RAIL-
WAY SWINDLE AND JOHN
FORREST.
David J. Gordon, M.L.O. (S.A.), writes: —
The following letter was written by John Forrest
(then Federal Treasurer) to the Acting-Premier of
Queensland. (T3/5/’l4), and it is the communication
to which p. McMahon Glynn objected so strenu-
ously the other day:—-
My Dear Mr. Barnes,—l should very much
like to have ai talk with you while you are in
Melbourne, in regard to the question of the
connection of the Queensland railway system
with Port Darwin. Your railway system extends
to Cloncurry, and will, no doubt, in time be con-
tinued to Camooweal; and I have it in my mind
that if the Queensland Government were to offer
to connect Cloncurry with Camooweal at once
the Commonwealth Government might undertake
to continue the railway through the Northern
Territory via Alrpy Downs Station and
Anthony’s Lagoon to Newcastle Waters, meet-
ing the railway which will be in course of con-
struction from Pine. Creek to Katherine to New-
castle Waters. Tfiej'advantage to Queensland
would be that all the rails, sleepers and rolling
stock to be imported could be landed at Towns-
ville, carried by rail to Camooweal, and then
used for the purpose of construction to Newcastle
Waters. It would also be a great advantage to
the trading of Queensland, in that all the pro-
duction from that part of the country from New-
castle Waters to Camooweal would probably find
its way into Queensland, and the benefit to be
derived by the Northern Territory would be the
connection with the western part of Queensland
and its inhabitants, who have experience and
knowledge which benefits them for the enterprise
necessary for the development of the Northern
Territory. It seems to me that this proposal
would be in the interests of Queensland, as well
as in the interests of the Northern Territory,
and, although I do not write with the authority
of the Government. I feel sure that I would have
no difficulty in obtaining the consent of the
Commonwealth Government to the proposal I
have above outlined.
I hope you will be able to find time to have
a consultation with me on this matter, which
might result in so much benefit both to Queens-
land and the Northern Territory.
John Forrest.
Joseph Cook (then Prime Minister) wrote to
Barnes three days later:—
I have pleasure in saying _ that the views
expressed in Sir John Forrest's letter, copy of
which is enclosed, are in accord with the views
and policy of the Government.
The proposal submitted by the ex-Federal
Treasurer, and endorsed by Mr. Cook, is in direct
conflict with the terms under which the Common-
wealth obtained the right (1) to control the North-
ern Territory, and (2) build the- railway through
South Australian territory to connect Westralia!
The maker of it has evidently forgotten three im-
portant facts: (1) That his East-West line, now in
course of construction, was conditional on the sur-
render of the Northern Territory, and is mentioned
in the agreement and the statutes ratifying same;
(2) that the surrender agreement commits the Com-
monwealth to railway connection with the Territory
other than that outlined in his letter to Mr. Barnes,
and (3) that the transfer negotiations assumed all
through, and the agreement implies, that railway
connection between South Australia and the Northern
Territory should precede, and not follow, the linking-
up of South Aus. and Westralia.
South Aus. gave priority to the East-West railway
because it trusted the members of the Federal Parlia-
ment and believed they would honor the terms of a
specific contract.
Throughout the official correspondence which
passed between Mr. Deakin, representing the Com-
monwealth, and the late Mr. Price, acting for South
Aus., there was the implied condition —subsequently
set out in unmistakable terms and agreed to —that
the Transcontinental line should connect the exist-
ing points of railway in South Aus. (Oodnadatta)
and in the Northern Territory (Pine Creek). That
is put beyond all doubt in the letter written by the
Premier of this State on February 3, 1906, in open-
ing up the negotiations—see paragraph 2 (6) and
(c). The late Mr. Price emphasised this in his
letter of July 14, 1906.
Mr. L. O’Loughlin, as Minister controlling the
Northern Territory, in asking Parliament to “sur-
render to the Commonwealth the Northern Territory,"'
referred to the railway between Port Augusta and
Oodnadatta as the “first section” of the Trans-
continental Railway, and added that the taking over
by the Commonwealth of that section “was the best
proof that we could possibly be given that they are
in earnest in their desire to connect Port Darwin
with Port Augusta with a line of railway... .he felt
sure that one of the first large undertakings of the
Commonwealth would be to link Port Darwin with
Port Augusta by railway” 1
If that was not the intention why did Federated
Australia take over the railway—Port Augusta io
Oodnadatta —which is not in Federal territory?
What use will that line be to the Commonwealth if
the Westralian M.P.’s suggestions to Mr. Barnes is
carried out?
I could quote the opinions of E. F. Mitchell,
K.C., and of other authorities concerning the legal
interpretation of the surrender agreement; but my only
purpose at present is to remind those who are chiefly
concerned that the railway to Western Australia was
a part—and a contingent part, too —of the arrange-
ment entered into on behalf of the Commonwealth
and the State of South Australia, and that only a
portion of a contract has so far been honored by the
Commonwealth authorities. That Mr. Forrest was
able to secure the construction of the East-West line
first, and not second, as was originally intended, is,
perhaps, a testimony to his persistency and the trust-
ful nature of South Australian members of the
Federal and State Parliaments. Too “trustful” it
would seem up to the present, in connection with The
transfer of the Northern Territory.
A reference to Clause 10 of Act No. 946 of 1907
will show that the proposal submitted to the Acting-
Premier of Queensland implies a distinct breach of
the Northern Territory Surrender Agreement, and
invites the violation of that document. That clause
clearly sets out that the Commonwealth is pledged
to “construct or cause to be constructed" first, a
South to North railway, and, subsequently—as part
of the same agreement but of secondary importance
—a “railway westerly from any point on the Port
Augusta railway” to “any point on the western
boundary line of South Australia proper.” It was
part of the contract for the surrender of the North-
ern Territory that South Aus. should give all rights
and facilities for the building of the East-West line.
That agreement was duly honored by South Aus, in l
priority to the building of the South-North' line, and!
now we have Mr. Forrest negotiating with Queens-
land to forestall South Aus. with railways not con-
templated in an agreement which duly protected the'
interests of Westralia!
My contention is that the building of the railway
outlined by Mr. Forrest, before the' construction of
the South-North line, would be contrary to the-
specific terms of the Northern Territory Surrender
Agreement ratified by Acts of Parliament, and would!
further represent a betrayal of South Aus. after that
State had carried out all its undertakings, including
the granting of facilities for the building of the East-
West railway, which line, I repeat, was a consequent
obligation on the Commonwealth to the completion of
the Transcontinental Railway through Central Aus-
tralia.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Wearisome Private Enterprise.
The fact that it is impossible to get blood
out of a stone, or cheese out of a post, dawns
on the N.S.W. Government. In- other words,
the pathetic faith of Holman and his
friends in Private Enterprise begins to fade.
A while ago the N.S.W. Minister for Works
discovered an English concern called Nor-
ton, Griffiths and Co., which was to find
£10.000,000 for the State when the State
couldn’t find the money for itself. All
Private Enterprise wanted was 5 per cent,
on the cost of the works which were built
with the borrowed money, and this was much
the same as giving the firm 5 per cent, for
floating the loan. A great many people
were of opinion that if the State floated the
loan itself and gave an extra per cent,
discount, it could dispense with the Private
Enterprise firm of Norton, Griffiths and
Co., and save a lot of money. Then there
were some complicated propositions about
this English firm of Private Enterprise super-
vising, on commission, the construction of
the works which were to be built with the
loans that all the fuss was about, and
nobody could quite make out whether the
firm was to fix the cost of the works or not.
Amid the general confusion the craving of the
Socialistic Cornstalk Cabinet to hand over aa
important branch of its business to Private
Enterprise became unpopular. In a quiet


and humble sort of way the matter was
dropped. Persons of no account said vague
remarks to the effect that the thing didn’t
smell pleasantly, but the smell wasn’t diag-
nosed. Now loans have become scarce by
reason of the great war, and it is obvious
that, if the war lasts long, either the profli-
gate State Governments of Australia must
learn to live on their own resources, or some
extraordinary kind of profligacy must be
invented. So again the English firm of
Norton, Griffiths and Co. has appeared in
N.S.W. politics, as the concern which can
raise the dead loan out of its grave, and in
some way find money for the Ma State when
the Ma State can’t find money for itself.
And again there is a suspicion that Private
Enterprise isn’t all it is cracked up to be.
Nobody knows exactly what the wonderful
Private Enterprise arrangement is to do, or
how much it is to cost, or in what way it is
supposed to benefit the State, or what it can
accomplish for the State that the State can’t
accomplish for itself, or what its resources
are, or what its influence is, or where its
office is located, or what politician it is
related to. It seems to be just an institu-
tion, a thing that is bound to transpire, and
a chronic happening. Norton, Griffiths
and Co. haven’t borrowed £1 on behalf of
N.S.W., or built one yard of railway for it,
but they have occupied space in the N.S.W.
Parliamentary reports for nearly two years,
and have been on the verge of saving the
community all that time. The public
is hungry for particulars. All this elusive
Private Enterprise has given it an indigest-
ible feeling about the waistband.
One of the Bright Spots of Life.
The following letter has reached The
Bulletin office. It is difficult to say what
it is about, but it sounds like a roar of
indignation, and it suggests Daniel in the
lions’ den, or Nebuchadnezzar eating
grass in his madness on the plains of Shinar,
or Lucifer falling out of Paradise, or
Aaron crossing the Red Sea, or Holman
borrowing money off Moses—or some-
thing :
The Editor Millicent, South Australia,
of
The Blood Thirsty Bulletin.
Sir, —I and my fellow workers have read your
attack on the grand principle of the unity of man-
kind until we must ventilate our feelings or burst
has your paper the courage to publish this letter
which will shake your circulation to its foundations
and to which all the wily serpents on your staff
cannot find a reply. Sir your weekly budget of
capitalistic lies suffocate the verdant earth, how
dare you glorify and eulogise such monsters as
Jellicoe and Kitchener or Florence Nightingale the
originator of the Crimean war, your paper is a
scurrilous rag, a sheet that exudes gore and belches
out tripe and balderdash from vitriolic pens steeped
in the ink of infamy and jingoeism. Shame on you
and your gang of scribes who assist the social para-
sites by serving up every week a conglomeration of
gibbering snivelling idiocy for the perusal of the
honest unthinking Proletarians. Hold on, dont dare
gaze on the Waste Paper basket but keep a firm
clutch on this epistle until you have engraved- its
contents on your cross eyed mind. We the apostles
of the new Revolutionary movement, a movement
which contains all the wisdom of democracy and the
concentrated spirit of freedom, compared to which
other movements are as a Sydney capitalistic ferry
boat to a Dreadnought. We decided by ten votes to
three to oppose your one eyed obscene rag to the
death if necessary, and to unfurl the glorious blood
red banner of freedom and anarchy from the roof of
the den of infamy and atrocities in 214 George
Street. Bolstered up by yellow dross and the vile
blue coated minions of the law, you may despise
our power _ but tremble—Fellow Worker Powell is
packing his grip and does not intend to lose a
minute until he reaches that sink of iniquity, who is
he I can hear you ask, ignorant man he is the spirit
of the age incarnate a twentieth century Socrates.
If you had the fortune to stand with me and see the
Proletarians hang spell bound as he spoke on the
Exploitation of the Slaves and the System you
would know. Powell is the acme of high thought,
the last word in human intellect, the higihe6t
authority on Economics that was ever knowrt *or sever
will be known he is the Superman the Militant
Proletarian. Powell could write the trash ypu
sully this fair continent with until the cows come
home, but he disdains such paltry rubbish and
leaves them to intellects like Hervey and Cabot,
he is ten thousand years ahead of all time. Our
comrade after profound thought and mediatation lias
resolved to proceed to Sydney and rend and tear
your slimy paper to atoms and scatter it to the
four winds of heaven. Though there is no such place
as heaven it is a vile capitalistic lie to Hell with it
parsons are exploiters of the workers. He is full of
perpetual motion and picric acid and like a thief in
the night he will steal in and commence his noble
operation of organising your blatant capital and will
not desist night or day until the Proletarian stands
erect on the stomach of the Capitalist gazing on
the glorious dawn of the Emancipation of the Wage
Slaves of the World.
Villian! Renegade! little the Serbonian bog of
advertisements aboriginalties or wild cat columns
avail you then, the day of revenge for the poor poets
and authors whom you have exploited is at hand,
little you will dream when you buy the humble
orange or the lordlv pineannle from our comrades
barrow that the Cromwell of Australia Fellow
Worker Powell is before you. He is the man who
is , destined . to‘-overturn this globe and scatter ex-
ploiters tyrants and Bulletins to the furthest ends
of space. Not Cobra boot polish will save you in
that great day but repentance and modelling your
incestious viperish sheet on the lines of Direct Action.
Yours for the revolution Ted Jenkins.
WORKERS!
Why dapple in Arbitration Courts and Sectional
Strikes when you have such a powerful weapon as
SABOTAGE.
Do you know what it means?
Seek information from the
INDUSTRIAL WORKERS OF THE WORLD,
13, Willcox St., Adelaide.
A hope is hereby expressed that the world
will go well with Ted Jenkins, and that
his flow of eloquence will never diminish.
A Letter from the Front.
“J.8.D.”: How little we amateurs know of
the fine points of military strategy! The
thought is suggested by a ietter which I have
received from my cousin, young Aubrey
Gladesville, who is at the Front with the
General Staff. I can’t do better than let
you have the thing as he wrote it. merely
withholding a few sentences of a purely per-
sonal character:—
.... But the most serious problem for the Allies
is to keep the Kaiser and his sons—more especially
the Crown Prince —in the field and at the head of
operations. We know, from letters found on prisoners
and from other sources, that Von Moltke has made
repeated attempts to lose the Crown Prince. In
the course of the fighting round Apremont the Prince
was twice thrown into the Meuse. However, he got
out. The Prince’s assailants accused Von Moltke
to his face of having inspired the deed—a charge
which Von Moltke, of course, repudiated—and they
died proclaiming that, though they had failed, they
deserved well of Germany. The Prince was also
pushed into the Moselle, near Metz, but escaped
somehow, though he had all his orders on at the
time. He has now taken to wearing a ship’s life-
belt when anywhere near water.
A masterly idea of General Hindenberg’s was to
drug him just before the time for making new dis-
positions. This arrangement worked satisfactorily
till the German reverses in the Argonne began. Then
the question arose whether it was wise to make the
future Emperor a morphinomaniac, even as the price
of victory, and they desisted....
Von Moltke, as you may have heard by this, has
been disgraced and sent back to his estates. The
Kaiser got hold of documents which clearly con-
victed him of trying to get the Crown Prince cap-
tured by the Russians. He asked Von M. what he
meant by it. The latter replied, rather artfully:
“There was but one Napoleon. There can be but
one Wilhelm.-” The Kaiser recognised the justice
of the proposition, but pointed out to Von M. that
he would have to be segregated, if only for a while,
as a disciplinary measure.
.... A Gurkha captured the Crown Prince on
Thursday, with the hearty co-operation of the Prus-
sian Imperial Guard, who are the creatures of Von
Ivluck, and brought him in to Headquarters at Com-
pif-gne. The wretched Indian was incapable of
understanding his mistake, and what made the affair
all the bitterer, from our point of view, was the
discovery that the Prince’s captor could have des-
patched one, and possibly two, of the German staff
officers had he possessed the intelligence to leave the
C.P. alone. The latter was conveyed to our lines
in a wheelbarrow, which, as the simple native said,
“appeared at thy servant’s feet, from nowhere, and
as though sent by Heaven itself.” Was it not
annoying? Our first line of strategy, of course, was
to let the Prince escape. To that end they took
my new Rolls-Royce and left it in the drive outside
his bedroom Window. It became evident, after a
minute or so, that he didn’t understand the controls.
We actually had to capture him again, and sub-
stitute a Benz. As he left, about three that morn-
ing, we all had to turn out and fire into the air and
shout, so as to lend an appearance of verisimilitude
to the proceedings. But I have a notion, despite it
all, that he suspected something
..... One of the most harrowing moments of the
entire war was when a youngster in poor old
Hughie’s regiment came in the day before yesterday
with the Kaiser. The Kaiser has been worth,
roughly, half a dozen army corps to us wherever he
has appeared. General De R. quite broke down. His
nerves have been none too good lately. Old J. went
well nigh dippy. His face worked epileptically as
he shouted: “Espece de saligaud l ’Cre mille noms
du nom d’-un nom! Faut-il quand-meme que j’
ordonne mille fois qu’on n’a pas besoin de cet
imbecile en qualite de prisonnier de guerre. Nous
sommes guere arrives au Vendredi et void la
neuvieme fois qu’on me le rapporte depuis le
Dimanche.” It was a stirring spectacle to see the
fine old warrior raise his hand solemnly and say:
“Pour celui aui le ramene id e’est la Mort.” And
without a doubt he means it!
There is a deal of difficulty in getting the Kaiser
back to his lines on these occasions. A car is no
good, as-he can’t drive, owing to his withered hand.
He appears to hate walking; and, anyhow, the
German Headquarters Staff have a set system of
getting as far away as possible after they have en-
sured his capture. They got rid of him at Peronne
at the beginning of last month, and immediately fell
back on Namur, which is nearly 40 miles away, and
over rotten country. In the end it was decided to
get a signed parole out of him and leave him in the
neighborhood of a suitable horse. This worked all
right, and we soon had the best of all proofs that
he was back and at the head of his men once more.
The ever-present peril is, of course, that he may
be killed. The Indians, who are continually crawl-
ing into trenches and under houses and up trees in
the enemy’s lines, and who, as a matter of fact,
spend more time with the Germans than they do with
us, have no sense of discrimination. It is a fixed
idea with them that anyone in an ornate uniform
must be a sahib, and therefore a prize. There were
nine of them in the armored Red Cross motor-waggon
in which the Kaiser lives, the other night; but he
happened to be directing the army somewhere at
the time. Had they got him I do not care to think
what might have happened. There should be no
more trouble in this direction, however, as an
Army order has just been issued, in 27 Asiatic
dialects, intimating that the next man who is con-
victed of being in or near the Kaiser’s quarters will
be sent away from the War altogether.
There is no likelihood of the Allies meeting with
misfortune by the loss of the Kaiser or his sons in
action. Despite the representations of Bernhardi,
Von Kluck, Hindenberg and others, they remain
well in the rear. Von Moltke is known to have
several times suggested subtly that it would have
a fine effect on the morale of the German nation if
the Kaiser led a charge or two of the Death’s Head
Hussars, as he was accustomed to do in manreuvres;
or went into action with one of the Foot Guards
regiments of which he is Colonel; or even engaged
in an ’ hour or two of trench work. It is good to
know that he has rebuffed these disloyal efforts with
the contempt they merit.
There are five of his sons in it besides the Crown
Prince, as you doubtless know. One of them fell
out of a motor-car the-other day, just as he was
getting to be of some use to us. The feeling here is
tha-t'-VoN Kluck had him pushed out, which is hardly
playing the game according to our standard. Another
wentf -mad after seeing over a Belgian hospital
which was three-parts full of Germans. It is signi-
ficant that Von M. advised him to visit the place.
But take it for all in all we are holding our own
against their machinations. Men who came here as
boys have grown to be seasoned veterans in a few
weeks. The enemy is already finding it almost as
difficult to unload a Royal General on one of our
lads, as it is to get to Paris.
“My Kingdom for a Horse.”
One of the bucolic weeklies has discovered
the military value of hunting and hunter-
breeding :
The hunter is the best possible type of troop
horse. His activity makes him suitable for scouting,
his pace and substance make him effective in those
charges which are, as the present conflict is showing
us, by no means obsolete in warfare.
It goes on to mention that the British War
Office has obtained quite 10,000 horses from
“Hunts,” and can get more when they are
wanted. Australians, largely through the
fanciful efforts of their Horse Poets, have
been accustomed for many years to regard
themselves as a nation of equestrians. They
never were in the sense that (say) the Arabs,
or, for that matter, the Irish are. Nowa-
days, with every State Government bloating
the coastal cities at the expense of the
backblocks, and with the motor-cult increas-
ing monthly, about eight Australians out of
ten don’t know a wither from a wind-gall.
Hunting is practically dead in all the big
centres barring Melbourne, and it is not par-
ticularly vital there. So the Government
lacks the source from which springs the best
cavalry horse of all —the sound, well-man-
nered young animal which is a jumper and a
stayer in the nature of things. The more
hunting decreases —and with the old Sydney
Hunt Club dead, Adelaide reduced to a drag,
and the Melbourne clubs losing members
every year, the complete vanishment of the
sport is only a matter of time—the more the
Government buyer of remounts will have to
fall back upon chance-bred animals. The
prospect is gloomy. Various drastic mea-
sures have been suggested for securing some-
thing better than the crop of weeds which is
left on the country’s hands Dy Indian and
other “Eastern” buyers. One is to heavily
subsidise approved stallions and mares.
Another is to, in some way, declare the
spavined and generally unsound entire to be
in the eye of the Law a noxious weed or
plague rat or other pest. But the only
effective means of getting a satisfactory mili-
tary horse, in all the local circumstances, is
to establish State stud farms. The more
hunting languishes, the more of a jest the
“hunting events” at the A., H. and P. shows
must become; and the less the farmers will
trouble to breed the sort of ’horse that is
best suited for cavalry and mounted infantry.
The present war found Australia far from
affluent in the matter of horseflesh. When
more breeders have gone out of the business
before the march of the motor-lorry and motor-
delivery cart, and by reason of the growing
dearth of interest in hunting and horseman-
ship generally, the Commonwealth may be
horse-bankrupt. France, Russia,- Germany,
Italy and all the other nations which are
situated similarly have made what provision
they could in the only possible way. The
nation which has done least —namely, Ger-
many—is already beginning to feel the pinch.
A country can well do without a vast reserve
of horses in times of peace. When war
comes the mostly-gentle friend of man is
almost as essential as ammunition.
The Fisher Government is alleged to have
promised that the special war-taxes will
cease as soon as peace is established, though
the report is doubtful and uncertain. Any-
how Opposition-leader Cook arose the other
day on both legs of himself, to ask for an
assurance that the war-taxes will be abol-
ished at the end of the war, and Prime
Minister Fisher treated him with reticence,
and was non-committal. The Tory press is
angry over the matter. Yet the war taxes,
as they are called, only pay a fraction of
the costs of the war. The rest is charged
to loans. And unless Australia proposes to
be at least as dishonest as usual it must
continue to collect all the money it can raise
until the war-loans are paid off, even if that
event doesn’t happen until 20 years after the
actual disturbance is finished. A country
which pays for its share of the public homi-
cide as it goes along is entitled to shut off
its special imposts when the enemy is wiped
out, and the dead are buried, and industry
has resumed —unless money is required to
provide for the maimed, the widows and the
orphans. One which has paid the bulk of
the account out of borrowings has no right
to reduce taxation until the loans are
liquidated, and provision is made for the
damaged and for the dependents of the
dead. The United Kingdom, which has a
reputation for honest finance, raises as much
of its war charges as it can by extra taxes,
and borrows the rest. But when the con-
flict is over it sets itself strenuously to
wiping off the debit and the arrears. Aus-
tralia can’t do better than follow this
example.
■ -»
There is as much symmetry about Fisher’s
tariff as there is about a scrambled egg. The
“hard” drinker and the smoker are further
taxed; the consumer of cold tea and soft stuff
escape. Lyne made a concession and was
prepared to let bulk kerosene in free,
provided that packages of less than 10 gals,
paid 3d. per gallon. This would at any
rate have caused most of the millions of
gallons we use to be tinned here instead of
ia N’York. Parliament rejected Lyne’s
proposal, and Fisher and Tudor follow
suit. If this allegedly-Protectionist Govern-
ment wants all the wire-netting we use to be
manufactured here Lyne’s proposed duty
of 30 per cent., with 5 per cent, preference,
would have done the trick. The foreign-
traders made it “free,” and Tudor follows
suit as regards Britain, but imposes 10 per
cent, on the foreigner—which will neither
protect an Australian industry nor give any
revenue worth mentioning. That shoddy
abomination, flannelette, was to be taxed
by Lyne to the extent of 20 and 25 per
cent.; Parliament made it free to Britain
and 5 per cent, to the foreigner, and Tudor
makes no alteration. So on through the
list. Apparently we must wait for the Inter-
State Commission’s report for a scientific
tariff. But whether this Parliament will
act on that report is another matter.
♦
Minister Griffith, of N.S.W., has
explained his position, just at a time when
explanation is about the most unfortunate
thing he could offer. The reason for his
order that Government departments must
use the output of the Government brick-
works and timber mills and so forth, even
if the goods cost 10 per cent, (or perhaps a
greater amount per cent.) more than Private
Enterprise would charge, is that, unlesss
strenuous measures of the sort are taken,
the Government works will be idle a great
part of the time. Just about here certain
propositions arise:—
(1) The Government’s Industrial CJourts fix the
wages that Private Enterprise has to pay.
(2) Presumably they are fair wages.
(3) Presumably the Government pays the same
wages.
(4) The Government has “eliminated the middle-
man,” and it gets cheaper loan money to go on
with than Private Enterprise does.
(5) Presumably Minister Griffith isn’t such a
superb ass that he is unable to compete against
Private Enterprise, especially with these advantages
thrown in.
(6) Therefore we get back to the old, dreary sus-
picion that State Enterprise in N.S.W. is no longer
Enterprise for the State, but a device whereby easy,
lazy, well-paid jobs are found for political support-
ers. The death-knell of political honesty was struck
when a Labor leader said that “the way to keep in
office is to give the people a good time while you
are in office.”
The Government now proposes to go in for
State wheat-growing, and it professes to be
joyous and sanguine about the profits. Yet
it was joyous and sanguine about its other
enterprises—the ones which, it is frankly
alleged, can’t hold up under Holman-
Griffith management without 10 per cent,
preference. Being joyous and sanguine is
its strong point.
♦
A Victorian farmer named Frowd made a
proposal with an insurance co. for an acci-
dent policy for £lOOO. The co. duly for-
warded a “cover note.” The co.’s policy
contained the usual condition that the pre-
mium must be paid before any risk was
accepted; but before it was issued or any
premium paid the farmer was accidentally
killed. His executors sued for the £1000;
but Justice Hood held that as no premium
had been paid no contract existed, and that
the “real meaning of the cover note was
that the policy would be forwarded as soon
as the premium was paid.” With as much
respect as the occasion calls for, this paper
ventures to say that the judicial remark
is rubbish. A company gives a proposer a
“cover note” covering the risk for a definite
period, and the policy subsequently issued
starts from the date when the cover note
is issued. This last circumstance fully
proves the nature of the “cover.” If, how-
ever, Justice Hood’s observation is good
law, of what use is .the cover note at all?
The point should be settled finally.
♦
The problem of his refugee ships increases
for the Deutscher. They have to pay for
board and lodging, of course, and Hans
can’t make up his mind whether to let them
slide or to keep on paying while they eat
their heads off. The greatest of them is the
Vaterland, now in New York Harbor. Billed
as the mightiest craft the world had ever
seen, it started on its maiden trip two
months before the war broke out, dripping
with champagne and flying the flag of Wil-
helm 11., Admiral of the Atlantic. Now
the Vaterland has been arrested for debt
by a London furniture shop. It transpired
on the application to the New York Court
that all the furniture and decorations of this
supposed triumph of the German shipyards
had been supplied and fitted by Britishers.
Hans doesn’t know what to do. Jellicoe
won’t allow him to go and fetch his ship,
and he simply hates to pay, because if he
does the loathsome Britisher will get the
money, and yet if he doesn’t do something
quickly the Lord knows what will happen.
Biron, one of the London Police Court
magistrates, says that “a most salutary
course to adopt at the present time would be
to prohibit women from entering and being
served in public-houses.” Australia, where
one never sees women-drinkers in bars, is the
proof that the sex can endure the depriva-
tion. Britain was forced to introduce “The
Children’s Act” a few years ago, to prevent
mothers from bringing strings of children
into these surroundings. One effect of the
Act was to create the new industry of “baby-
minding” for the parasite who loafs about
the doors of such places. Regarded as a
remedy the Act was a poor thing, for any
decrease in drinking by adults was more
than balanced by the increase of pneumonia
and allied maladies in the young. Since .the
declaration of war the authorities, acting
under Orders in Council which were promul-
gated in virtue of the Defence of the Realm
Act, forbade the sale of drink as from 11
p.m. The mighty drink combine, which was
deemed to be so financially interwoven with
tht nation’s life that no statesman dared to
touch it, proved to be of far less importance
in the scheme of things than it looked, so the
closing hour was pulled back still further—-
to 10 p.m. The change from half an hour after
to two hours before midnight appears to have
harmed nobody, and it might well prove that
the exclusion of women from bars would simi-
larly leave the surface of things unruffled.
It is a reasonable assumption that closing
hours, at any rate, will be continued as at
present when the war is over. If so a con-
summation will have been achieved by acci-
dent which the most heroic of reformers
would never have dared to attempt by design.
♦
An extract from the howl of a French
pressman (London Morning Post,
26/10/T4) re the unpreparedness of
Britain:—
It is not possible to save at the same time life,
tranquillity and commerce, and to assure the fate of
armies. Without doubt your fleet is blocking Ger-
man ports and destroying German commerce. We
are doing the same with regard to Austria. But neither
your fleet nor ours will prevent Germany and
Austria from obtaining supplies through the neutral
countries surrounding them. Of this you are aware.
You also know that this war cannot last more than
a year, because the States would not have the neces-
sary funds to stand the expense. You know, too, that
you would be incapable of pursuing it without the
Russians and ourselves, and that the fate of the
conflict will be decided on land, and not on sea.
Then what ought you to do? Declare for compulsory
military service in England and your Dominions
from the age of 19 up to 48. Raise all your fit
men. Group them in the principal towns. Give
them instructors who will form their cadres. Train
them in marching, shooting, trench-making, gun-firing
and in the various battle formations. Equip them,
with clothing and guns turned out by your factories.
Choose the best men, put them into uniforms and'
give them arms, complete their training, and send-
them to the front. Then you may hope to start for-
Berlin and finish with the Germans. Lack of means,
you say. Has not France called out?*all her men
every time the country has been in danger? Have we-
not raised our “mobiles” by identical methods in
1870? Have not Servia and Montenegro armed alii
their nation for the common good ? Has not Ger-
many already sent to the front contingents of young -
volunteers?....
Judge whether it is right that your clerks should'
remain at their desks, that your agriculturists may
rest in their fields, that your manufacturers should'
employ their time in capturing German trade, that
your theatres and music-halls should remain open,
when all the men in France, from the age of 19 to>
48, are at the war, and when French families, with-
out exception, are in mourning. At present all our-
Territorials are under arms, and a large number-
are at the front. Why are yours not there?
Apparently the French newspaper man was=
angry about something.
The Saving Voice.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When cify streets are dull and drab
And people listless go,
Some wearing trouble on their brows,
And some a weight of woe,
There falls a shadow on my heart,
And like a ghost I tread —
A ghost amid my brother-ghosts,
Dead-souled among the Dead ;
’Tis then the saving whisper comes:
“Take up your lyre again,
And sing the seas, and sing the trees,
And sing the falling rain."
When down the dusty coastal road
The sable hearses bear
Dead men who fought with Fate and failed,
Dead women worn with care —
A shadow falls upon my heart,
I draw a stricken breath,
And life is ashen-grey and cold,
And nothing moves but Death —
’Tis then the saving whisper comes:
“Take up your lyre again,
And sing the glade, and sing the maid,
And sing the lovers twain.”
When on the highway of the years
In midnight dreams I see
The nations that are dead and dust,
The nations that shall be —
I turn and gasp, and turn and gasp:
‘With foes on every hand,
How shall it be with you,” I cry,
“My own, my gracious land?”
’Tis then there comes a trumpet voice:
“Take up your lyre again,
And sing your hold, brave land of gold
Jn high, heroic strain.”
IJ.S.W.'
RODERIC QUINN.


Pr»4uc* «f &tolU*
GAELIC WHISKY
the old smuggler
a
GAELIC
The Perfect Whisky
. . . in . ..
The Perfect Bottle.
DISTILLED IN THE
HIGHLANDS of SCOTLAND.
3 O OBlijS OM
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
%
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agrents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney.
Dinneford's
Magnesia
DINNEFORD’S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The War, Regarded as a Holiday
Institution.
The fifth month of the war will end a few
days hence. Five months are very few,
3’et it seems difficult to remember a time
when there wasn’t a war. Within the last
few days it has become more and more
apparent that the back of the Austro-
German camel is going down in the middle,
and that the two ends of him are unduly
elevated in proportion to his centre. The
great Austrian rush on Servia was appar-
ently a worse failure _ than it at first
appeared. Not only is King Peter back
in his capital, or the debris of it; but the
old man seems to have made a most grievous
hash of his enemies. It is his luck to have
about the best crowd of officers in Europe.
During a time of peace all manner of decent-
looking military mediocrities climb to high
places by seniority, and it is only when war
reveals their incapacity that they can be
weeded out, and pensioned off. or sent to
quiet jobs as Governors or the like. Servia
had fought two wars inside two years before
the present scrimmage commenced, so it had
the best possible chance to get rid of its
mediocrities. Every Servian officer who
remained was a man of proved ability and a
fighter of no small tonnage. The ram-
shackle Austrian empire shows signs of
crumbling. The Hungarian half of it
makes unpleasant remarks about breaking
away, and restoring the old separate mon-
archy which perished at Mohacz in 1526.
In other words, it thinks of throwing the
Austrian Emperor overboard, and making
the best possible terms for itself. The
Khedive having lost his head and joined the
Sultan. Egypt has been solemnly and for-
mally severed from the Turkish Empire. It
is now to have a nominal Sultan of its own
—a thing that hasn’t happened to it for
nearly 400 years; but in reality George V.
will be the Pharaoh. The Kaiser who is admit-
tedly a very sick man these days, is said to
have had an interview with the Emperor of
Austria, who is believed to have died some
months ago, and it is said that disagree-
ments ensued. The idea of disagreements
between an invalid and a corpse is so obvi-
ously absurd that no one believes the story.
The pathetically futile German raid on the
east coast of England has not been repeated.
Three small kings—-those of Norway.
Sweden and Denmark —have met to denounce
the Gerhog and his habit of scattering mines
at random about the seas, but it is difficult
to see what the three small kings can do.
The Turkish army hasn’t been seen or heard
of for a week, but a few Allied ships have
looked in at the Dardanelles, and knocked
some Ottoman fortresses into dust. The
second dash which the Kaiser’s troops made
for Warsaw has failed, and every day the
Gerhog army loses a few yards more ground
in Belgium and France. An atmosphere of
sickness, depression and old age has settled
down on the alliance of the three potentates
who started out so gaily to conouer the
world and burst up the peace of Europe. It
is still a long way to Berlin and Vienna and
Constantinople, but the path is being cleared.
The venerable illiterate at Byzantium has
become a jest. The Methuselah at Vienna
is only kept alive with difficulty in newspaper
paragraphs. And the man at Berlin becomes
a shadowy and disappointed invalid. A
crowd of hard-fighting subordinates will
doiibtless keep the struggle going for a long
while, but the men at the top are a weary
and disgruntled assortment.
The N.S.W. Government’s wheat-buying
racket is struggling along its uncertain way.
Agents hang out at recognised wheat centres*
and buy the goods at ss. per bushel. They
are to be sold to millers at ss. 6d. per
bushel. But the Government isn’t abso-
lutely bound to buy, at ss. per bushel, all
wheat that is offering. And the farmer
whose wheat is taken at ss. appeal to
a Board and demand a higher price if he
thinks he has been wronged or robbed. Sup-
posing, by any miserable mischance, the Board
allows him 6s. per bushel after the Gov-
ernment has sold to the miller at ss. 6d., it
will be an annoyance to the Government.
And the miller looks like a difficult proposi-
tion. The Government is to be a Socialistic
agent butting in between the Private Enter-
prise which grows wheat and the Private
Enterprise which grinds wheat. Suppos-
ing the Government buys wheat from the
farmer at 55., and sells it to the miller at
ss. 6d., and the farmer ultimately persuades
the Board to allow him 65., and the State is
6d. to the bad, and then the miller doesn’t
grind up the wheat, but exports it at 6s. 6d.,
or starts, a corner, or a monopoly—where
does the Government come in? The wheat-
buying Board, or Commission, or Committee
is sitting in secret. Perhaps that is the
safest thing it can sit in. If the struggles
of the concern to decide exactly where it
stands were published in full, they might
be too amusing.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Girl on the Film”
Criterion “Broadway Jones”
Adelphi “The Babes in the Wood”
Palace . -f (Evening) “Who’s the Lady”
( (Afternoon) “Seven Little Australians”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
White City Various Shows
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Cinderella”
Royal “Bought and Paid For”
King’s “Sinbad the Sailor”
Princess’s “The Bad Girl of the Family”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
RiJOU Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville
Olympia & National Hoyt’s Pictures
Esplanade The Green Dandies
Auditorium Maud Allan & Cherniavskys
♦
“The Girl on the Film” turns out to be
the usual old Girl. This time she is the
daughter of a General and the man of her
choice is a bioscope actor. Her father is a
General because is is necessary that someone
should howl with rage when her passion for
the film-mummer is disclosed; and Generals
are notorious howlers on the stage. The
Girl, whose name is Winifred, naturally pre-
sents herself to Max, the picture artist, as
a boy; and, though she is no more like a
boy than a camel, he is deceived. In the
complications which lead up to the union
of Winifred and Max, and the howls of the
General, there is ample opportunity for a
very fair vaudeville show. Her Majesty’s
(Sydney) presents it.
* * * *
Miss Dorothy Brunton plays lead, which
is a belated recognition of this young Aus-
tralian’s merits. As The Bulletin has been
remarking for years, she outclasses the type
of Girl that the J.C.W. Co. has been im-
porting, as regards looks, dancing and sing-
ing, and above all personality. C. H. Work-
man is Max. He is a sound comedian, along
conventional lines, but he fails to suggest
the sort of person that even the most emo-
tional maiden would become dippy about.
Paul Plunket and Gertrude Glyn have some
pleasing turns. For the purposes of the
play he is a sort of assistant in the 'bio-
scope firm, and she is a secretary. The
slap-stick items are supplied by Field Fisher.
He is a scream. He even threatens at times
to become a riot —not to say a cataclysm.
The show could do with more from him in
the “second part” ; and for that matter in
the other parts. Miss Florence Vie is re-
sponsible for the patriotic element, and
there is some attractive dancing by Vlasta
Novotna and Victor Lauschmann. The
Sisters Eileen Cottee, Gwen Hughes and
Winnie Tait look “sweet.” One expects
them, vaguely, to do a sand dance, or throw
a few handsprings, or something, but they
never do. Vaudeville is full of such disappoint-
ments. The balladist is Marie Eaton. Her
song of farewell to the moving-picture busi-
ness is the musical hit of the Hall. The
best of the animals turns is Max’s Horse.
On last Saturday night it stood for a while
on its rider’s stomach, but this trick is to
be abandoned at future performances. There
are no monkeys or Yankee patter artists;
and an absence of trapezists, conjurers and
coin-manipulators does much to further
brighten the proceedings.
“THE GIRL ON THE FILM,” AT HER
MAJESTY'S, SYDNEY.
Carmen and Don Jose.
Sydney Royal, which has had a fitful life
of late, will again be opened for business on
Saturday, when Nellie Stewart starts a sea-
son of “Dorothy o’ the Hall; a Paul
Kester drama with an old-fashioned story
running through it. It shouldn’t be the
worst of the Christmas shows by a long way.
❖ *!* *I»
“The Babes in the Wood” are scheduled
for a gorgeous mid-week start, at Sydney
Adelphi, on December 26. Daisy Jerome
leads the many-legged co.; and 'where Daisy
is there shall the Bald Old Babes be gathered
together. ,
** * *
“Sweet County Kerry” will see Allen
Doone’s season out at the Palace‘(Sydney),
closing on Thursday. After that the Doone
co. will go off the road, probably until
Easter. The Palace will be reopened on
Saturday afternoon by Beaumont Smith,
when Ethel Turner’s “Seven Little Austra-
lians” will appear in stage form. The
story will be acted every afternoon by a
picked lot of children, and it deserves to be
a winner, if only to reward a manager who
is trying to give Australian talent a fair
chance. On Boxing night, Beaumont
Smith’s grown-up co. (the “Glad Eye” lot)
will commence a season with “Who’s the
Lady?”
=1: s|: *
The great natural industry of the U.S., the
manufacture of chewing-gum, forms the basis
of “Broadway Jones,” now running hard at
Sydney Criterion. Anyone who, from
natural curiosity, goes to see how the U.S. —
short for Unready Susan—makes and chews
gum will be disanoointed. .Not oue single
character of the play, not one single em-
ployee of the great chewing-gum foundry at
Jonesville, from the girl clerk to the fore-
man. demonstrates how gum is chewed.
One suspects that the Jonesville chewing
gum is not all that the Chewing Gum Trust
thinks it. The audience is shown the office
of the chewing-gum arsenal. The workshops
and casting machinery are just outside ; but
no sound comes of the giant machinery
moulding this indispensable article of com-
merce. Yet we learn that Jonesville lives
on the chewing-gum industry. Somehow
the heroism of Broadway Jones in not
closing «p his factory and diverting the
honest Jonesvillians into the paths of pro-
ductive industry fails to appeal to an Aus-
tralian audience.
" THE GIRL
ON THE
FILM.”
The rival Napoleons. Doddie (to Napoleon
workman): “Not a hit like him. Why, you
haven't got his kiss-curl !”
As there is no wages Board award for
fun factories and scenic railroads, the White
City at Rushcutter’s Bay (Sydney), expects
to be one of the most overworked concerns
in Sydney during the coming holidays.
The fresh tui’ns at Sydney Tivoli are
mostly in the Revue part. The Brown
Brothers do a moving-picture boxing act
which will allure those who like td see
people being severely injured. Yera Pearce
has a couple of new items in addition to her
attractive Moonlight turn with the chorus.
Jack Cannot is still there, also Monte Wolf
and Isabelle D’Armond, all with new' num-
bers. An amusing Yankee sketch has 'been
introduced. But why not an Australian
one?
* * * *
Sydney moving pictures, ,for still people:
Crystal Palace : “His Trysting Place,” a Key-
stone comedy officially listed as “one huge scream
from flyleaf 'to publisher’s imprint.” Patrons who
are merely amused by it will hurt the management’s
feelings.
Lyric: “The Midnight Tragedy,” a feature drama
all about the society bird who carefullly put herself
into the gilded cage of matrimony with a benevolent
old owl, and then bruised her feet trying to get out.
Colonial: “Diamond of Disaster,” the hallowed
idea of the bad-luck gem pictured by Thanhouser.
Plenty of shudder.-
Empress: “John Ranee, Gentleman,” the tragedy
of two men and the woman who couldn’t make up
her mind, or had no mind to make up.
* * * •
“Cinderella,” at Her Majesty’s (Meld.),
is an annual that makes no serious attempt
to break records in scenery, marches, togs
or ballet effects, though the fugitive appear-
ance of Maggie Dickinson as a red and
restless premiere danseuse. is a pleasure of
the first quality. The ancient. story of tke
Baron’s lovely daughter lends itself to papto,
treatment in a comparatively inexpensive
form, so the show, though not magnificent,
comes just about up to war-time expectation,
and when it has got into its holiday stride
it should travel fast enough. A harlequin-
ade and a special turn by a harmony quar-
tette are reserved for matinees only, and will
be duly reflected upon in next issue.
HISTORY REPEATS ITSELF IN "THE
GIRL ON THE FILM.”
The fall of Napoleon (an unrehearsed first-
night incident).
The panto proper starts tamely, but im-
proves in the second chapter. A want of
novelty in the musical items, of ginger in
the “gags,” and of force in the fooling can
be supplied in a measure, as time goes on.
At present there is nothing with more bite
in it, for old stagers, than a simple parody
of an antique music-hall turn by Dolly
Harmer and Gertie Latchford, and a crude
burlesque of the moss-grown circus. One
or two lively chorus numbers are in the
nature of Yankee notions, no longer new,
and the one special variety turn is supplied
by two acrobatic girleens of the old-
fashioned sort, whose heads seem to have
been growing whilst their bodies remained as
before. They might have escaped from an
early-Victorian picture by John Leech.
# * * *
Excepting when Lupino and others are
falling into floor holes, or jumping through
the roof, by way of providing entertainment
for the young, the panto runs mostly on
quiet, broad-comedy lines. The action has
some honestly-humorous incidents, notably
the interview between Cinderella and the
Page (Barry Lupino) in the kitchen, and
the dialogues between the latter and the
Baron, who is quite artistically played by
Jack McArdle from first to last. Lupino
gets more than a full share of the "fat,” but
is never too grotesque 6r over-assertiye,
Arthur Stigant is a droll Mrs. Baron in a
subdued style, and the obtrusive step-sisters
are satisfactorily accounted for by Dolly
Harmer and Gertie Latchford, of whom
Gertie is neither traditionally loud nor'
otherwise than pretty. Dolly Castles, in the
name part, is a pert rather than a sentimen-
tal “Cinders,” hardly soft and sugary enough
for the Prince Charming of Minnie Love, a
tall, slim “boy” of the angelic type, with
more grace than vim. The voices of all the
ballad songstresses are tuneful, but not
pungent, and it remained for Celia Ghiloni,
as a robust fairy godfather, to get in an
incisive commonplace song at the finish.
Leslie Gaze, as Dandini the valet, gets his
best chance in the beginning, after which he
drops out of the running and represents a
waste of comedy talent. Two or three other
principals are useful occasionally. One of
them merely appears for the rhoment as a
professor of tango, with the result that
Lupino, in a state of alleged liquor, 'gets
mistaken for the new dancing-master, and
his unsober movements are imitated by a
number of girls, under the impression that
they are learning steps. A fairly numerous
crowd of pretty choristers are supported by
a moderately large orchestra, and the per-
formance begins at 7.30.
* * ❖
Without having any special panto preten-
sions. “Sinbad the Sailor,” at the King’s
(Melbourne), should nevertheless satisfy
anybody yearning for a breezy entertain-
ment in a song and dance form. .The book
is effusively topical, and shows evidence of
satirical intentions at the Kaiser’s expense,
while scenery and dressing are elaborate
enough to meet the uncritical demands of an
Anderson audience. The weakest part of
the show is the concerted dancing, and it is
reasonable to expect considerable improve-
ment here. To say the best of it, the con-
duct of the ballet on Saturday night was'
somewhat ungainly.
* * * *
As regards the cast, Rita Renas as
Badoura, Aimee Kelly as the Fairy Queen,
and John Ralston as King Kopaz are the
vocal successes l of the piece. Ralston and
Miss Renas also act intelligently and utter
their serdps of dialogue in a tasteful manner.


RED
PfoiiaCRWFORDsJ
Scotch tytisKr
. 1 W-
STAR
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Pitt & King Streets, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne, s. J. fowler, Manager.
Queensland Branch : 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane, j. a. watson, Manager.
FIRE, ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, etc.
Lowest Rates Ctiarged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
’Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
Harry Burgess is moderately scintillating as
Sinbad; but Olive Marston, apparently im-
ported for , the part of Sinbad, does not
twinkle' like a star. The lady uses her
voice 1 with extreme economy, and her
attempts at sprightly action are frequently
frustrated by a- somewhat heavy deportment.
The part of Mrs. Sinbad is overcrowded by
Maggie Moore, and Fred Macdonald, Mark
Phillips and Frank Crossley rend rather
than render the lines alloted to a trio of
comic mariners. Acrobats occasionally
interrupt the uneven' course of the perform-
ance, while a quick-change from Mrs.
Sinbad’s backyard to the deck of the cruiser
Sydney is received with appropriate patrio-
tic noises. Also there is an impressive
march of all nations, followed by a harle-
quinade of a rough and furious order.
* ❖ *
“What Women Will Do For Love,” a
debilitated story of misplaced confidence, is
getting a run at Melbourne Princess’s this
week. It that Lilian Strong blindly
places her trust and her hubby’s coin in the
hands of a degraded military officah, who
proceeds to squandah the substance on Wild
Cats and other pussies too rorty to mention.
Thereupon Lilian accompanies the blighter
to London for the purpose of regaining the
missing money, but is gaoled on a false
charge of despitefully using the ruffian with
intent to provide him with an early burial.
On her return to freedom the poor lady and
her husband are almost finished by a mine
explosion, but after further trials and suffer-
ing the pair recover their cash and happiness,
while the wicked soldier is defeated with
great slaughter and sundry unkempt mis-
creants are also put to flight. Rq-tland
Beckett, as the villain, provides a ljollow
mockery of a British warrior who is no : more
than an ordinary confidence trickster with
the advantage of an occasional wash and
haircut. Roland Conway has charge of the
hero’s part; Miss Dorise tries to depict the
unparalleled credulity of Mrs. Strong; and
minor offenders are D’Arcy Kelway, Jack
Kirby, Miss Dale and Miss Erris. In
accordance with the Willoughby quick-change
system, “The Bad Girl of the Family” will
have another fling on Saturday.
At Melbourne Royal on Boxing Night
Muriel Starr will appear in “Bought and
Paid For,” an alleged problem drama
wherein matrimony is discussed from a com-
mercial standpoint by a cast limited to seven
characters. Meantime Miss Starr will con-
tinue as “The Chorus Lady” for another
night, and poke borak at the beautious
Sylvia Simpson.
* * *
At Melbourne Tivoli the notable re-arrivals
last Saturday were Wright and Dietrich, who
warble together in a somewhat higher key
and with a more tender spirit than most
variety duettists. Also Chester Kingston
was described as the Chinese Puzzle
for the first time. Elsewhere in the bill
came Rickaby, the Ascots, Alfredo and others
as before. Thus far Melbourne seems to
be not quite universally informed that the
Tivoli, like the Bijou, is an every-day
matinee house. Friends who are in search
of cither a respite from dull care, or a refuge
from the rain at 2.30 p.m. on any day of the
week, will please accept this intimation.
Melbourne Bijou programme is the better
for the addition of Miss Ella Airlie, a .young
artist who indulges in ditties-at-the-piano
and has a happy method of delivering the
goods. Of the other new turns May Knight
is an acceptable chorus singer, and Benson
and Bell score some points as specialty
dancers. On Boxing night the Brennan-
Fuller people promise to devote the second
half to a home-made revue, entitled “This Is
the Life.”
* * * ❖
At Melbourne Auditorium next Saturday the
admirers of Maud Allan and her debatable
art will get a further opportunity to see her
suit the action to the music. With the Cherni-
avskis the ladv is to appear for one farewell
week at the Audi., and a number of people
who didn’t see and hear them when they
were at the King’s a while ago. are much
interested in the coming event. Meanwhile,
on Christmas Night, there is to be a concert
at the Taits’ hall, with Walter Kirby at the
head of the co.
Branscombe’s Dandies, who go in more
strongly this year than usual for concerted
work, and for whom Marguerite. Leroy
dances charmingly, are still doing well at
the Exhibition Gardens in Adelaide. Across
the road are Waller’s new Strollers,' with
Sydney James at their head. Ivhnoff’s
orchestra makes unusually good music for
them. The chief feature of modern
Adelaide’s shows is decentralisation. These
two are far up North Terrace; open-air
Wondergraph is between them, and the Pav.
pictures just round the corner in Rundle-
street. The old central Tivoli has become
Star pictures, the Royal (rebuilt) stands
where it did, and the new Wondergraph has
built just opposite. But West’s draws
people far down Hindley-street (which
street has awakened immensely of late), and
away beyond Victoria Square are the big
new Tivoli, Empire and Central (pictures),
the King's, and the star garden, which com-
bines pictures and variety. Thus Adelaide’s
shows are now scattered over a mile of
space, instead of crowding together as of old.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Melb” :.-At the Melbourne Old Colonists’
Home this week, Governor Stanley opened a
worthy little hospital. Mrs. Gladstone, an
inmate, presented him with a bunch of
flowers, and astonished his Ex. with a
really fine speech. He could not help
expressing his surprise. It reminded him
of her namesake, the Grand old Man elo-
quent. One of the Council mentioned her
history, which explained things. Mr. and
Mrs. Gladstone were honored performers
with Brooke, Jefferson and Sullivan; and
Mrs. Gladstone still speaks with enthusiasm
of Barry Sullivan’s illustrious two years at
the Royal, when the whole round of the
legitimate drama was given to a sixpenny
gallery!
“800-shee”: So far as I have seen, no
recent mention has been made of a drama of
Marcus Clarke’s entitled “Plot,” produced
at the Princess’s Theatre (Melb. ) in 1872,
when that favorite old house was under the
management of O’Brien and Holmes. “Plot”
was . founded on episode in “The Man
with the Iron Mask,” and was very
effective and picturesque. It was favor-
ably received by press and public, and
was looked upon at the time as its
author’s best effort. Eloise Juno played
the dual role of Louis XIV. and the ill-
fated Phillippe ; and the cast included Dick
Roberts and his wife, Polly Leake, two of
the. cleverest dramatic performers of the
period and the parents of Harry Roberts.
An actress does not often take the trouble
to go through the Insolvency Court, but
Mabel Hardinge, well known in the country
districts of S.A. and Vic., has just got a
clearance in the former State. Management
was her trouble; she could earn a good
salary, but had higher aspirations. Liabili-
ties £227, assets £37. Second-class certi-
ficate.
“Cherub Aloft”: Edna Keeley must be
the most sung-at actress on record. There’s
never an Allen Doone play but the leading
lady is assured in two or three songs of
two or three verses each, that in the land
of the shamrock, the thistle and rose, sure
there’s no nater colleen, faith all the world
knows, or something like that. And to do
Miss Keeley justice, she looks nate and
swate, and listens very naturally, always
with the right change of expression or pose
at the risrht time. But I often wonder
whether the silent lady is never tempted to
sing back.
“J.F.H.” (London) : Mark Hambourg
lias got £5OO damages from London Opinion
for calling him a German —which is about
the most inconvenient insult that can be
thrown at a public performer these
troublous times. The libel was in a column
headed : “Things We Want to-Know: How
long is it since Mark Hambourg discovered
that he is a famous ‘Russian’ pianist?
And did he not consider himself a German
in the old days of Broadwood’s?” The
plaintiff had no difficulty in proving that
“THE CHORUS LADY," AT MEL-
BOURNE KOVAL.
One of 'Em. Cyril Machay.
he never was a German, that he and his
ancestors were all Russians, and that he
and his father had become naturalised
British subjects 20 years ago. The libel
had had very unpleasant consequences for
him, he said. At Cromer he found an
ugly-looking crowd outside the hall black-
ing his name out of the bills and declaring
that they wanted no German pianists
there; and to secure protection he had been
obliged to prove to the local superintendent
of police that he was not a Rhinehog.
“Kodak" takes a seaside picture: —
There was a patchwork tent and something inside
it was stinking vehemently. A chalk sign hung out-
side said: “The Monster of the Deep—Only 3d.” A
vociferous man without boots, or steady employ-
ment, or a clean shave was roaring the same infor-
mation at the people who passed from the ferry.
The complete indifference of most of the wayfarers
was beautiful to see; one would have thought they
saw monsters every day for nothing. They allowed
the man without boots to fan their faces with his
wild bellowings, and then, without turning a hair,
dragged on towards the waiting trams.
The only human being who really seemed interested
was a small, mean-faced boy-child in charge of a
small, hurried mother with a scarlet face. “Wanter
see th’ monster!” screamed the kid wickedly. It was
evidently his' fourteenth repetition of the demand.
His mother shook him like an obstinate pepper-
caster or a bottle of unpleasant medicine. “Shut
yer mouth! I haven’t got no money ter spend on
monsters!”
“Th’ monster o’ th’ deep!” roared the bootless
scoundrel, for the especial benefit of the kid whose
3d. he wanted for beer.
“THE CHORUS LADY.”
Muriel Starr as Pat. In the dressing room.
“Wanter see th’ monster o’ the’ deep!” shrieked
the kid.
“Didn’t I tell yer”
“On-ly three-pence!” stormed the shameless show-
man of decaying offal. “Th’ wunnertul monster o’
th’ deep, On-ly three-pence!” The reference to
threepence was made in such a pathetic roar that
one expected him to burst into tears, and was mildly
amazed when he didn’t.
“Wanter see the monster!” screamed the kid.
Only an enraged cockatoo could have screamed him
down.
He was shaken again—shaken like a rat this time.
“Don’t you dare ter scream at me like that!
You’ve ’ad a bun an’ an icecream, an’ two rides on
th’ merry-go-roun’, besides listenin’ to th’ band an’
seein’ th’ drownin’ gentleman brought in! I ain’t
got no munney ter spend on monsters!”
The showman put his fat loafer’s hand to his
mouth. “Th’ wunnerful monster. Only threepence!!”
The untamed kid tugged frantically at his mother’s
arm. “Wanter see th’ monster! Wanter see th’
mor,”
“I’ll give yer monster!” snapped his mother, and
set about the job with her lean right hand. The
impact of bone on flesh coupled with the kid’s roars
sounded like nothing but a wildly enthusiastic concert
encore. You felt instinctively that someone should
be throwing bouquets.
The showman bore it in dignified silence; but
when the uproar had gone round the corner he spat
on the pavement underneath a notice which implored
him not to do so and remarked disgustedly, “Ain’t
some wimmin cows!”
“Busk”: Apropos theatrical biographies
(B. 17/12/’l4). Lives of G. V. Brooke
and Barry Sullivan were written by one
Lawrence. Brooke’s memoir is a large
volume costing about 65.; Sullivan’s is brief,
sold for Is. Brooke details how he walked
upon the Dublin stage at 15 in “William
Tell,” as a leading actor. It would make
him born in 1818, a year before Coppin—
and Queen Victoria. He was known
throughout England as the Boy Tragedian,
and travelled in charge of his mother. As
a young man his voice was matchless. He
seemed to give a kind of operatic perform-
ance with it, in a rapid succession of mag-
nificent sculpturesque attitudes; but his
face and eyes were called inexpressive at
that time. He had to darken his sandy
hair and the moustache he grew later.
Thomas Barry Sullivan —that was the
other’s right name —was the son of a mili-
tary sergeant. After doing well as an actor
in Ireland, he preceded Irving as walking
gentleman in the “stock” at the Edinburgh
Theatre Royal. A friend of Brooke, to
whom he had mostly to play second, they
shared the same dressing-room at the Bir-
mingham Royal, under the management of
Mr. and Mrs. Rignold, parents of George
and William. Brooke was a careless genius.
Sullivan had to become a star by hard work,
like Irving, who resembled him in springy
walk and defective elocution.
“Norbell” : The late Charles Holloway and
the effervescent William Anderson were in
partnership once, and took a sizeable dramatic
co. on tour. We travelled a small corps-de-
ballet, and when “East Lynne” went up at
Newcastle (N.S.W.), the management decided
that these ladies should get work. A ballet
was accordingly introduced into the little
Willie horror. Just before Willie breathed
his last, and Madame Vine’s heart burst in
agony at his bedside, several lively young
ladies tripped on and danced “The Larrikin
Ballet.” The delighted gods shrieked “Ang-
core!” till the item was repeated, and then
Little Willie joined the angels in peace. By
the way, Beatrice Holloway (now Mrs. Bob
Greig) was Little Willie.
“Ami” : Amy Castles was at the Imperial
Opera House, Vienna, when the war broke
out, but got away to Milan. Eileen is with
an opera company in New York. Dolly
was in the U.S.A., and now is back in Aus-
tralia, playing in the Melbourne panto.
“Sermentte”: Re the reference (B.
10/12/T4) to Dr. Scheidel, of the Port-
land (N.S.W.) Cement Company. It
should go to his credit that he is the author
of one of Australia’s big industries. He
went to Portland 20 years ago and found it
a barren waste. To-day the local cement
concern employs 700 hands. The place has
its own hospital, and all other modern con-
veniences for the men; and the latter like
Scheidel as an employer, who has always
given them a fair deal. Take him all round
Scheidel is one of the last German-Austra-
lians who should have his scrap of naturali-
sation paper torn up. He has held it for 24
years.
Sir Thomas Sutherland has retired from
the chair of the P. & O. Go. at last; and the
service will take a long breath before buck-
ling-to under his successor, Inchcape. The
old man was such an arrogant martinet that,
if there was any trouble with employees,
anything in the way of conference and con-
ciliation was out of the question. A while
ago, when the heavens fell and the officers
struck, the only thing possible was to im-
plore Sutherland to stand aside for a
moment —and then the trouble was soon
over. Pay in the P. & 0., Sutherland be-
lieved, should be a consideration of no conse-
quence whatever. “I won’t have anybody
in my ships or my offices who isn’t a gentle-
man,” he said ; and in England and Asia he
mostly did get young men who weren’t de-
pendent on their pay. If these young men
infuriated the co.’s shipping customers, as
they did 20 times a day, it didn’t matter.
And still the co. won and held a great and
prosperous business, chiefly because it kept
its promises scrupulously. #
Francis H. Snow, the Adelaide man who
is accused of trading with the enemy, has
for many years represented x\aron Hirsch
and Son in Australia; and Aaron Hirsch
and Son are one of three firms constituting
the great combine which controls the world’s
markets in various metals. It is stated,
however, that the Hirsches dissevered them-
selves from Snow some little time prior to
the outbreak of war, maybe because they
saw it in the distance. Before becoming
the biggest dealer in ores and metals in
the Southern Hemisphere, Snow was a
patents agent. Like most eminent S. Aus-
tralians he is a pillar of the Church, an
unpretentious liver, and a tremendous
worker, who finds his recreations in yachting
and in his garden in (he Hills. The case
against him, which is being heard for a
start before a local S.M., is a complicated
one, with Cleland, K.C., leading for the
prosecution, and Symon, K.C., for the
defence. While it proceeds the accused has
bail, the bonds amounting to £6OOO.
“Melb”: The Scotch College Speech Day
was the most noteworthy of this year’s Vic-
torian bunch, because of the forthcoming
removal to Hawthorn Glen. Governor Stanley
noticed that the word “Patria” had been
stuck into the College motto. Did this, he
asked, mean Loyalty to Australia? Shouts
of “Yes!” from the boys, and “Sh, Sh!”
from anguished masters. Stanley, of
course, administered a needed corrective.
Their loyalty , must also be to Canada and
the Three Hundred Million Indians; integral
and vital part of us! Doubtless the brown
Egyptians, too, now, because they have been
swent into the network of the Beloved. The
Australian boy is virtually reprimanded for
refusing to admit an affection for these. It
is a stupid mistake. That he should be told
to be proud of the Empire in a general sort
of way is well enough ; but the Empire will
be the gainer if you can encourage him to
be so proud of his little bit of it that he will
give for it the very best that is in him. Set
him on another tack and Stanley would talk
of the mighty trade of Britain. Not mil-
lions working for British trade, but millions
working, each little group for its own trade,
made that vast thing: and so it is with the
other vast thing called the Empire.
The High Court did substantial justice
when it decided the other day that the
customers of the Commonwealth Bank must
stamp their cheques like the customers of
any other bank. The attempt to make out
that this was an attack by the States on
the Commonwealth was mischievous; for
the more countenance that is given to
bogus attacks, the less, attention real
attacks are likely to get when they are
delivered. As the Court unanimously said,
through the mouth of Chief Justice Griffith,
“the operations of the Commonwealth Bank,
as between itself and its customers, are not
the discharge of a function of executive
Government of the Commonwealth.” In
any case, the Commonwealth Bank was
simply making _ enemies for the Common-
wealth by claiming for its customers exemp-
tions from the State taxation which is
collected from the customers of other banks.
And it was doing no good for public enter-
prise either; for if public enterprise can’t
get along without special favors it is not
the thing it is cracked.up to be.


Genuine South American
PANAMAS at J\L
Genuine South American Panamas, very
finely plaited with selected grass, and splen-
didly bleached, fitted with black silk Bands
and sweatproof leathers. Brims, 2-j to 3J
inches wide. Ol /_
Sizes 6i to
Superior Qualities from 25/- to 5 guineas.
Also Untearable Jap Panamas at 16/6
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LTD,,
Opposite G.P.O. SYDNEY.
HOW TO KEEP COOL!
in the hot weather is a question we can easily
solve for you by the aid of our noted
“ VXNTI LACE”
UNDERWEAR
It is important that your next-to-the-skin garments
should be cool, absorbent and durable. These are
the features of the Ventilace Underwear, which is
made in strong, open mesh, permitting ventilation
and the maximum of comfort.
Here’s. Good Value for You !
SINGLETS OR
KNICKERS ...
219
Write for our Fine, Complete
POST FREE TO
ANY ADDRESS.
Men’s Wear Catalogue.
CHAS. LANE & CO. [S:
Hous e e M for Met” Elizabeth Street, Melbourne,
€?
□
Once
Worn
Always
W.»ra
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
The late Speaker Abbott made a furious
attack on N.S.W. Judge Docker nearly 30
years ago, and the “Little Brown Jug” is
nearly as eccentric in his sentences now as
he was then. Two or three cases which came
before him lately may be quoted in illustra-
tion. No. 1 was that of a man who tam-
pered with a child and infected the victim
with a disgusting complaint. He got six
months. No. 2 was a reprobate who, though
only 22, had 35 convictions against him for
drunkenness and violence. Up this time for
assault and robbery he was handed a couple
of years. No. 3, a lad of IS, the support of
a widowed mother and a good worker, had
stolen some jewellery and given it away to
girls. As a child he had been before the
Children’s Court for (1) stealing apples
from a garden and (21 throwing stones.
Judge Docker maundered at length that it
was his duty to cure the accused, and passed
the savage* sentence of two years’ imprison-
ment —on a stripling who didn’t know enough
to profit by his offence, or to take even the
first step to hide his guilt. Docker’s indis-
criminating treatment of the case may possi-
bly “cure” the lad, but the chances are all
the other way. Indeed, on the very day when
he was dealing out such sentences he
bemoaned the ineffectiveness of the curative
agency he was relying upon. It apparently
hasn’t occurred to him that a medicine may
be good, and may yet be so grotesquely
maladministered that its effects may be
ruinous.
“Solomon Malaprop”: History is a re-
petitionary animal. The last time a naval
•trouble came so close to England that Eng-
land could stand on the beach and watch it-
self being licked was when Admiral Paul
Jones battered a British squadron off Scar-
borough. Now, by way of resuming busi-
ness, the Germans have been dropping shells
into Scarborough. Luckily they came in
the winter, when the hare-legged children
weren’t paddling or building castles of sand ;
and the lodging-house where the fly sits on
the cold meat was empty; and the gouty
waiter in the hotel had retired to the bosom
of his family; and the shore donkey had
gone home; and the great marine show
place had closed up. Probably there was
nothing in Scarborough to shell save a sleep-
ing policeman. Paul Jones had more sense
than the German admiral. He raided the
Yorkshire coast in the early autumn when
the ice-cream was still available, and the
plate of shrimps was in good condition.
* * * *
The Turks now say that the ancient
battleship Messudieh, which was waited on
by the British submarine 811, sank at its
anchorage as the result of a leak. Obvi-
ously it couldn’t have gone down as the
result of wind in the stomach. The advan-
tage of* being a Turk and untidy is that,
when your vessel is neatly submarined by
the enemy, you can rise and say, with some
prospect of being believed, that the disaster
was really caused by someone forgetting to
put the plug in for the night. A Jellicoe
is denied these moral comforts.
OBSCURE MARINE JOKE.
THE BENCH: “What's this! You swear that you had drunk nothing but water, and
the police swear you were intoxicated
FACETIOUS COUNSEL : “If I may make the suggestion, y'r Worship. A wreck, but
water-tight.”
EXPERIENCED.
BILLY (to departing shepherd): “My word! 1I wish I was goin’ with yer. I bet wed
see a bit of life. I know me way ’bout Sydney! ”
“Callan Park” draws plans for the next
campaign:—•
Wherever I go I am met with: “When are you
off to the Front?” “When may we expect to see you
in your uniform?” and so on. My replies are eva-
sive. The fact is I have no intention of approaching
the Front till it gets more comfortable. Flying
shot or shell do not appal me; but boredom, dirt
and rheumatism are different affairs. The Allies have
already begun to deal with these. A cable of last
week mentioned that the trenches in Flanders are
being heated and drained. The London Daily Mail
is on sale, in the firing line, every afternoon at tea-
time. Marie Lloyd has organised a vaudeville
troupe to sing to the warriors when they are in the
mood to listen. Bridge and other card games go on
when the soldiers are not fighting, eating or sleeping.
Gramophones are everywhere. First-class concerts,
conducted eight miles away, can be heard over the
wires.
This is well, as far as it goes, but I am waiting
for more.
The first reform which I expect to see in the
trenches during the coming winter is a system of hot
and cold baths. Paved and carpeted floors, and elec-
tric light throughout will follow. By that time
matters will have settled down. An eight-hours’
fighting day (from nine to six, with an hour off at
mid-day for smoke-oh) will be fixed by international
agreement. No dropping of empty bottles or food-
stuffs from Zeppelins or aeroplanes, except during
fighting hours. Trench-mayors, whose trenches are
found to be (1) pierceable by bombs, (2) inade-
quately drained, or (3) dusty or shop-soiled within
the meaning of the Clean Trenches Act (1914), may
be fined for the first offence, and dismissed from the
war, without the option, for the second. A morning
daily (with the latest news, trench gossip and corres-
pondence column for complaints as to the quality of
the amusements, refreshments, etc., a Poet’s Corner
for Poems of Hate, and other special features) will
oust the Daily Mail. One main aim of the
authorities should be to keep out the bookmaking
element. Life would be unpleasant with these men
howling the odds about the duration of the war,
the number of shells arriving in the trenches within
a given time, and so forth. Far better, more especi-
ally as this war is essentially a Socialistic concern,
instal the Tote right away. The arrival of the
Tote will represent the marking of an Epoch so far as
I am concerned. It will be the signal for me to
pack up my bed-socks, face cream, manicuring imple-
ments, bridge-markers and chest-protectors, and be
off to do or die.
* * * *
Everybody knew that William was taking
on a big thing when he challenged the
British Empire, though few realised how
very big the thing was. It now begins to
look as though the evanid Monarch, who
thought that this was to be an ultra-modern
war of great machines, has unwittingly taken
on a kind of Roman Empire as well. All
kinds of classical animals are beginning to
appear from all quarters of the globe.
There are the camelry of • the Old
Testament, the elephants of Solomon and
of Porus, and now the goat is being
dragged into the disturbed area. The
goat is the most classical of all animals,
whether as a means of literary decor in the
hands of Horace, or of sculptural form in
those of the Masters of the Friezes. Gifts
of many thousands of these creatures are
being showered upon llritain by the lvavir-
ondo chieftains of the ancient Ethiopian king-
doms of Kisumu. Fleets of Britain’s merchant-
men will carry them to the rock-bound
anchorages of Massillia what time other
flotillas will bring from Golconda and the
regions of the Five Rivers the vast and
turbaned hosts whose meat food these beasts
supply. Lord Salisbury, in one of those
flippancies which used to beguile him, said
"the Fleet cannot climb mountains.” It
looks as though the Fleet can not only climb
mountains, but can even tuck them under
its arm and walk away with them.
* * * *
“0.K.” : In the British distribution of war
medals, stars, titles and so forth, what hon-
orable award is Robert Blatchford, ex-soldier
and Socialist, going to get? Blatchford is
the man who exposed the game of Germany
four years ago in a series of articles pub-
lished by London Daily Mail, and which,
republished since in pamphlet form, have done
more towards saving Britain than all the
calls to arms uttered by all the suddenly-
aroused “authorities.” Blatchford’s words of
four years ago have the ring of inspira-
tion. He began his sixth article by stating
that “The problem of British defence is the
defence of France.” Ilis seventh started
with a summary of his previous six: —
(1) Germany aims at European domination.
(2) To attain her ends she must break the power
of Britain.
(3) All attempts at conciliation are foredoomed to
failure.
(4) If France falls we shall be unable to hold our
own.
(5) France is no match for Germany.
(6) We are not in a position to help France.
(7) Unless the British people make greater sacri-
fices than they are at present prepared to make we
shall lose our Empire and our independence.
(8) Our Cabinet Ministers know this and are afraid
to tell the people the truth.
Britain was in a position to help France;
but the help thus far available has not sufficed
to force the German invaders out of France
or to shift them an inch in ravaged Belgium.
Apart from that, in those prophetic articles
of four years ago only one thing was want-
ing—the writer did not suggest why com-
pulsory military service had not been favored
by Britain’s rulers. The truth is under the
present system the profession of officer is
practically confined to the upoah classes;
whereas in an army 10 or 20 times as
numerous the officers would not all be snobs
and nobs. Hence the desire to keep it “small
and select.”
MARRIED A MINUTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To the protest against girls marrying men who
are just about to leave for the front, Lady Hosie
replies that it is better to be married a minute
than die an old maid. — Cable.
See the pink bride in her whiteness arrayed !
See the armed bridegroom who cannot be stayed !
Hear the kind lady (a wise woman she!)
Sobbing “M.v dears, you had much better be
(If you want proof, you can just look at me)
Married a minute than die an old maid!”
Marry a minute!
I’ve nothing agin it!
They only regret who too long have delayed.
The honeymoon madness
Has in it no sadness.
For marriage the soldier has got the right trade.
Soldier! if you arc romantic, don’t stay!
Marry her—keep her a night and a day I
Life falls to pieces and sweethearts grow fat;
Marriage can’t run at a honeymoon bat,
And ev’ry woman is partly a cat.
Wed her and leave her! —you’re done if you stay!
Marry a minute!
Don’t finish! Begin it!
Just love her and go ere she starts to upbraidj
You can’t kiss for ever,
They’re satisfied never —
And why should you stay when you’ve got a brave
trade f
Though now you adore her,
You'll presently bore. her.
A husband she’s won! She is not an old maid!
You get to the trenches.
They’re troublesome wenches,
And, handsome or clever,
They’re soAisficd never !
To-morrow you’ll be very sorry you stayed!
Her features forgetting,
Imagine licr fretting,
And fuming and sneering,
And. snapping and fleering.
Without other reason
(A r o matter the season,
In manner inhuman)
But that she’s a woman!
Love her quick and get out ! Don’t stay to be
flayed!
She will do as a widow, but not as a maid !
N.B.W.
SOME ANONYMOUS SCOUNDREL.


“ITS A PLEASURE TO USE.
'TW'
Vi
That is the opinion of hundreds of men who shave daily with
A “PLUM” RAZOR.
The keen-edged blade of a “Plum” makes your morning shave a daily
delight. No pulling or tugging —no hacking or scraping—but a smooth,
comfortable shave that leaves the face soft as a babe’s. We are prac-
tical tradesmen, and know just the edge a razor requires. You’ll find
satisfaction always in a “PLUM” Razor. Send your order to-day.
Price 10/6, Post Free.
We keep it in perfect order for two years free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a handsome present.
All the Above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price. List.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
Cellular Combinations
—The COOLEST COTTON UNDERWEAR
Can you realise how cool and comfortable is cotton-net underwear? It
is ideal for the hot weather —light in weight, very porous and absorbent.
The illustration shows the style of the combinations but does not in-
dicate the texture, which is open like lace-net.
Nothing lighter has ever been introduced.
Combinations are now much in demand, being more comfortable than
other garments at the waist line—there being no double layer as with
pants and shirts.
The combinations have i sleeves and knee-length legs.
34in. to 44in. chest
5/9 each.
Please state chest measurement. New Catalogue in Colors on request.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
309 & 3U George Street, Sydney.
Men’s Outfitters,
A recent case at Taunton (Eng.) was
unique in the history of English trials for
murder, inasmuch as the prisoner insisted
on pleading guilty, in spite of the Judge’s
attempts to dissuade him. A paper refers to
the whole business as the amazing circum-
stance of “the Black Cap without a trial.”
The Black Cap is a small, square shawl of
soft black cloth. For the purposes of the
only sentence for which it is used, the four
corners are brought to the middle of this
square and tacked together. The thing is
thus reduced to the side of a lady’s handker-
chief. It is supposed to be laid diagonally
upon the Judge’s wig by a chaplain; one of
the four points hangs over the Judge’s fore-
head, and all one actually sees of it from
the body of the court is an acute triangle of
black upon the Judge’s brow. The yarn
goes at the Queensland Bar that when Sam
Griffith, now Chief Justice of the Common-
wealth, was appointed to the Queensland
Bench, he had never seen a murder trial.
He ordered the usual set of Judge’s robes,
and with the other things the Black Cap was
sent. On his first murder trial Griffith
undid the tacking and so restored the Cap
to its shawl-like proportions. Preparatory
to pronouncing sentence he enshrouded his
head in its several folds of black. His
horror on learning of his mistake is said to
explain the fact that he is nowadays the
most punctilious and instructed of Austra-
lian Judges in the thousand abstruse techni-
calities of judicial costume.
“The Old Soldier”: The Black Watch
(the old “Forty-twa”)which has just been
congratulated, by Sir John French, was
raised in the first half of the 18th century.
It derived its nickname from its sooty tartan
—a blend of various plaids with the bright
colors omitted. The regiment was raised
as a police force from Highlanders who
could “count their kin,” and they did not
wear kilts. It was only when they and
one or two other Highland regiments were
sent .to America and India to fight the
French in the Seven Years’ War that “the
garb of old Gaul,” otherwise the Highland
costume, more particularly the kilt, philabeg,
sporran and bonnet were forced on them by
the War Office milliners. The fancy rig
isn’t so popular in Britain as it is made out
to be in Australia. Many a time have
A CHRISTMAS CARD.
War conducts the orchestra.
Highland regiments cursed the whole turn-
out as the most inconvenient that can be
given to a soldier, and they are delighted to
know that when they go on service they are
rid of most of it. This last is one of the
many things unknown apparently to Sin-
clair, the Queensland M.H.R. who, the
other day asked Jensen if he would “rein-
state the kilted regiments”—on the ground,
it seems, that French had spoken well of
what one of them had done when it didn’t
have the fancy rig on. Praise won in those
circumstances might be a reason for leaving
the comic-opera costume off altogether; it
certainly isn’t a reason for crowding it on
any body of work-a-day soldiers in Aus-
• tralia.
* # * *
The Adelaide man who was tried for
alleged perjury in a divorce-case has been
allowed to go. Two successive juries failed
to agree as to whether it was perjury at
all, so the matter was dropped. However,
a principle has been established, and the
prosecution has knocked out the idea that
in this one kind of law-suit a mistaken idea
of Chivalry can rank before the plain obli-
gation to swear truly. Perhaps the next
amazing innovation will be the prosecution
of an evil-minded flapper for having falsely
sworn to the misconduct of a male
acquaintance?
A IVAR ITEM.
THE AUDIENCE: “ Splendid , sir. One can see that you understand what you play."
PIANIST: “ No 1. It's German music, and I don't know a word of the language."
“Ii.B.”: Could anything be better evidence
of the soft-beaded trustfulness of a nation
than the discovery since the war began that
Britain had leased Herrn Island, in the Eng-
lish Channel, 70 miles from Portland and 40
miles from Cherbourg, to a German co. at a
rental of £l4 a year? Yet.it is but one of
many instances. Prince Albert of Schleswig-
Holstein, son of Prince Christian and Helena,
is serving with the German army; but his
mother, a daughter of the late Queen Vic-
toria, still draws £6OOO a year from the
British taxpayer, and his father is a general
in the British army. England has the Free-
trade disease so badly that it sees nothing
odd about a system like this of importing
pensioners and exporting enemies.
* l * * *
“Jean Sibi”: Almost every day I find
some heavyweight newspaper waiter sug-
gesting that the European un-
pleasantness is the outcome of
Treitzschke’s Anglophobic teach-
ing on legions of pan-Germanic
dreamers. During his lifetime
the dreary Old Teuton un-
doubtedly demonstrated a hard
and persistent disgust for all
things English; but his influ-
ence was no greater than that
of a dozen other writers and
politicians who were similarly
indisposed towards John Bull.
Moreover, Treitzschke’s anti-
Anglicanism was only a phase
of a gross and fat-headed
Prussianism that embraced sev-
eral distinct “hatreds” and in-
numerable small dislikes. Born
a Saxon he finished by repudiat-
ing Saxons, despising Bavarians,
damning Poles, attacking Sosh,
and compiling pathetically bit-
ter literature directed against
anything that had earned
Potsdam’s Imperial frown. A
noted bigot, he was obviously
disqualified as a fair-minded
advocate by his congenital
cantankerousness and desire to
grovel to the ruling caste. He
died with his Toryism crusted
upon him in 1896, and left
behind him some solid misgiv-
ings as to the value of his
violence in the cause of Ger-
man Weltpolitik. Anyhow, to
my reckoning, his Anglophobia
had less bearing on the present
row than the poisonous thought
of Nietzsche and particularly Stirner. Why,
before Treitzschke was politically articulate,
Stirner was furiously declaring that “what
you have the might to be you have the right
to be” —a crude doctrine of individual re-
volt which a fool Hohenzollern was to
nationalise for offensive purposes.
* * * *
“Briner”: All hands and the cook have
been puzzled as to how the German cruisers
got their coal; for, flying at full speed, the
Ernden and the rest of them w T ould empty
their bunkers in a week. In systematic pre-
paration for war the Germans established
confidential agents in all neutral ports of
consequence. To them the cruisers wired in
code for coal and food to be delivered at
fixed points of latitude and longitude at a
given time. Picking up these code messages
you could make no harm of them. But the
agents, having the key, promptlv got busy,
and loaded the required goods in a neutral
bottom, which then cleared for an imaginary
port, just as in former times Guam was put
down when you didn’t want the world to
know where your coal cargo was going.
British agents suspected and sniffed; but
what could they do without violating inter-
national law? They were in neutral ports,
remember, and therefore .couldn’t communi-
cate with the British warships. The only
punishment they could press for, when the
truth came out, was a trivial fine for failure
to go to the port cleared for; and German
agents paid that with a grin.
“John Furious”: A coquettish lady of
middle-age (I hate coquettish ladies of
middle-age) annoyed me yesterday by ask-
ing me if I objected to women smoking. I
don’t object to women smoking. The more
a woman smokes the less she talks. If I
had my way I would make smoking com-
pulsory amongst women. Any scandal-
mongering female found without her pipe or
cigar should be fined for the first offence
and imprisoned for the second. A decent
appreciation of tobacco and tobacco-smoking
might educate women up to the fact that
most scents and lip-salve and powder rub-
bish are abominations. A woman never
thinks of apologising for painting herself
like a clown in front of you, or for saying
murderous things about your friends or her
own. She doesn’t seem to think it>is rude
when she tries to talk to you with her
mouth full of chocolates. But she clings to
the silly superstition that you in some way
resent her. lighting up—as though even if
you objected to smoking, you wotild notice
that one small thing in the multitude of her
other infirmities and indecencies.'
The Judges are complaining off. over-work.
It is a sign of bad times. Whenever there
is a slump you find
people going readily
to law, especially in
those concerns
wherein business is
worst. Thus in one
day, recently, there
were three theatrical
actions before the Syd-
ney courts —and busi-
ness is very rotten in
the theatrical trade
When things are brisk,
and money is easily
made, people won’t
waste valuable time
arguing over small
amounts, and going
over evidence with
counsel. They simply
curse once or twice
and settle. But when
profits are scarce the
position alters. People
are then prepared to
struggle furiously for tenners, where before
they would not have bothered over hundreds.
What with restaurant and bar-room assault
cases involving alleged patriots and alleged
Germans, and matters in Prize, and indent-
ing and marine insurance rows, the lawyers
are doing pretty well out of the war.
* * * *
The first appeal to Australia for soldiers
came in 1796, when the old East India Com-
pany ruled the southern portion of India
with a British charter and a grasping hand.
Rebellions wei:e“* frequent, and to quell them
the co. had its own army, which it mostly
drew from Britain. John Bull, however,
was heavily engaged in Continental wars,
and a time arrived when the co. had to look
elsewhere. Accordingly, one afternoon, a
vessel sailed into Sydney Cove with two
officers of the Bengal army, authorised to
enlist 200 Australians to serve in the East
India army. The Governor of the day,
promptly approving, rounded up a loafing lot
of confirmed criminals and presented them
to the recruiting officers. But the officers
protested that they would accept none but
men of high character. “Two hundred men
of high character in Sydney?” laughed the
Governor. “First, where are they? Second,
if I had them, wouldn’t I be a fool not to
keep them? You must take the 200 I have
picked or do without.” They did without.
Some anatomy from Sydney Telegraph
(15/12/T4) —
There may be some aching hearts behind the smil-
ing faces to be seen buying Christmas gifts.
But they are more likely to he found
carrying on business at the old address
behind the shirtfront.
* * * *
Victoria’s first war vessel, the A'ictoria, is
now used as a tug in Sydney harbor. She
was a seven-gun corvette, built at Newcastle-
on-Tyne, 369 tons gross, and her 95-h.p.
engines drove her into Hobson’s Bay in 1858.
She was first used outside Victorian waters
THE MODEST AND MALIGNED TURN.
During some street fighting the women rushed the
enemy in a semi-nude state. The Turks turned and
fled. —Daily payer anecdote.
[The artist did his picture on Bondi Beach
( Sydney). The fleeing Turk is crozvded out.
in taking stores, etc., to the Gulf of Carpen-
taria to meet the Burke and Wills expedi-
tion, which never got there; and she ren-
dered assistance in 1863 to Maoriland during
the native trouble.
* * * *
For an early picture of German culture
turn to John Buskin in “Fors Clavigera,”
written 40 years ago:—
A German cannot be either meek or merciful; he
does not understand even the meaning of the words.
.... No quantity of learning ever makes a German
modest. Accordingly, when the German gets com-
mand of Lombardy they bombard Venice, steal her
pictures (which they can’t understand a single
touch of), and entirely ruin the country, morally
and phj'sically, leaving behind them misery, vice
and intense hatred of themselves, wherever their
accursed feet have trodden. They do precisely the
same thing by France—crush her, rob her, leave her
in misery of rage and shame, and return home,
smacking their lips and singing Te Deums.
Like murder, German culture will out.
Wars would not drag on the way they do
if the hostile nations would only read each
others’ papers and see how badly they were
being licked.
SMILE, SINNER, SMILE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A learned member of the Faculty of Medicine at
the John Hopkins University has read a paper
claiming that appendicitis might be cured without
operation if the patients would only smile contin-
ually.
You may haply settle cancer with the radium of the
sage,
And to foil tuberculosis will your doctor man en-
gage ;
You may baffle gout by going in for gruel as a diet,
And quitting gin will often quell a mad internal
riot;
But, in case appendicitis
Your melancholy plight is
You may rout the crooked demon with a smile ;
l r ou may promptly right-about him,
And with all his forces rout him
If you only face his menace with a smile.
If you’ll only please remember when your innards
twist in pain,
And in deadly admonition send a message through
your brain,
That a frown will stir the ’possum in this sensitive
disease
While a gentle laugh will mollify and put him at
his ease,
, You will find appendicitis—■
With his cousin, meningitis—-
Will succumb beneath the glamor of your smile.
Just a little play of banter
And the curse will fly instanter,
For he cannot brave the magic of a smile.
In the happy days a-coming just a chuckle will
suffice
To suppress your indigestion or your asthma in a
trice;
And the pangs that send a shiver through the failing
man of sin,
Will depart in baffled fury if he greet them with a
grin ;
Not alone appendicitis,
But dementia and St. Vitus,
May be routed by an expert with a smile;
And the plagues that send a quiver
Down your quaking lights and liver
Maf' be shot to swift perdition with a smile!
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


3. .And here joh KfH> a ship disappearing
UIM»H file horizon. With the aid of «
powerful maunifyinu «li»ss Hop may he
seen near fhfe: stern, wavllltf a mood-hye to
3, At one of the ports of ‘‘«H
v rashlY utnlortonk to explain * j
X ‘UttHetin” joke to a <l*!hso-miu<teil
Xeannibal- It ««* here the w*r
X<tent oecurreri referred to m
No. 1 of
(i. < < OMI OUT -• v
ttttW upon a ulader in the CainxUan fimkH
'fcaOinn a book <>» Antairtk- Kv|>lo»aiioM,
while tin' i<l*ni<«Hl K\i»i-<‘ss u|k>«i whJffli
tie tfa vela i* beln« <i«u out of a,
snowdrift.
2. It \«)«M seem that |
Hop was suffering front 1
KailetinUSs. I miiil s>m|>to»w |
'' shook!y iuurkedt tired feeilttf?. 1
~*jr £ disinclination to exert iott, «n<J I
jg an nwtjuenchable thirst—for travel. |
} Medical adviser's t>reseri»>tion: “Chuck It ««<» |
t, I‘ui'Miit Ah under difficulties. 80-
|T «-«HhI liKhtniuK "**'••-*
ifl||| ,<kpf<iiys (Mi lx>ar<lJ
7. Here maj be seen the l»«ir.s« i» ViVVItV-’ backgromxl-
of Ka theses li., with the Sphynx a»»«l « |*. i»vraiiiltl-of < hoops.
| -m* Ik the cormt thing. The object in the .listanee >« the l -
B'Vo failed because the Shepherd Kitvjts j
ixtKetT the sepulchre of an evicted ilium* .
| mined pitas aoh to gr.ll (e)ops t
I ». THE KKTIKX 'JOt’KXKY.
f Crossing the Great Salt lake
- o iii.ißipiir >l.' by -rail, over a causewaj about
| :l ‘ tulles lona. If fakes about «»i hour ami a balf to cross, an<l there is plenty
it I”* l* m< * f<> art some a<to<l tlshina from the platform of the observation’car. You
| catch nothing but sail mackerel.
1. \axiom inpuiries have reached this office
tor some time oast as to "What’s the matter
with Hon? Ami why have his (Iraninen surf*
deid.v disappeared from these columns?" The
explanation is simple. The fact is that he had
his most useful fluster hi Hen off bv a cannibal
during; his late trip round the world, and it has
taken some time for the injured aieinbrc to grow
again. •
: ■
X. Urn- tin* wanderer, homesick and befogged •*» l<<m«h>n. ’
| inquires of a mil iceman In Kleet-stree< (lie way to Australia.
| “Pirst turning: to the risrht. and’ follow vour nose. »# s
the instant reply.
13. Ah”, those long hours of Cim-
merian...darkness!j.-,-.. ....
l raplain threw his n»ega»|
I phone overimard and gave instruction* §
[to his staff in^Vhispers.
p t<>. Twelve days outfroml
1 Sail Francisco we got news |
I by wireless of the outbreak of J
»• war. Thenceforth the voyage |
1 was continued with lights out. |
fiw white object on the
| horizon was at first thought to
| be the searchlight of a hostile
I ship. It proved.. to be fifcp:
I planet Venus. _
11. Head silence, as near as may be, was
observed on board. The official who con-
veyed coals to the furnaces used a pneu~
inatic-tyreil wheelbarrow for the purpose.
12. On the day that we got the fateful news
tier man sausages and sauerkraut were on the
luncheon menu.... *Twas then the wireless ;
announceuient was made. To the credit of th*|
ship's company let it be tworded that all hands!
rushed to the rail and were loyally sea-sick!
15. Soc.h tangoing ns took
place on board was done in i« liere s^en
goloshes, to the music of § passing the frowning de-
moted fiddles. Jfences of Sydney Harbor.
: |a the botes may be seen a manly figure, shedding W»>Sf.
lof joy on his return. It is Hop. (Slow music.)
~ _ __ .. i ■ J
HOP'S STORY.


EVERY DAY
more people are proving that'
ILiILIX
b the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub—lengthens the
life of the clothes.
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
r
\ •
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SVONeV.
lIDE^S
•FOUNDEDIBBB-
- ORMONDE&O
Consu/A/np , PcrfenA iP/A>nneyS
one/ 7rr7c/etfcrnX Atpente ■ I7QUEEN S T
MELBOURNE
810-SHOWMEN!
*"T HERE’S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
I it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.’’ Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George
Street, Sydney.
Successful
Tooth Cleaning
Sold by local
Druggists &■ Stores.
Mad: by
F.C.Calvert & Co.
Manchester, Hng.
should be more than a mere
phrase, —it becomes actual
fact for the people who use
0
T®
M
a
OK
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
‘’Billy Blue”: The first instalment of the
birthstain took just eight months to arrive from
England. Phillip’s fleet left on May 14, 1787, and
reached Botany Bay on January 19. After that it
was reckoned a fair thing if a vessel did the trip
in six months. The first vessel to put up figures
worth noticing was the Albion, which arrived in
Port Jackson on June 29, 1799, after a trip of
three months 15 days. This was considered so
wonderful that Governor Hunter made special refer-
ence to it in his despatches. This first record-
breaker was a ship of 362 tons, length 86ft., ex-
treme breadth 274 ft., and depth of'hold 12ft. She
was commanded by Captain Ebor Bunker, and came
fitted out for whale fishing. Ebor Bunker and his
Albion held the record for many years. The first
steamship to carry the mails under contract from
England to Melbourne was the Australian, 735 tons.
She sailed from Plymouth on June 5, 1852, and took
89 days on the trip. The clippers frequently out-
paced the steamers. Amongst them the Thermo-
pylae holds the record, made on her maiden voyage
in 1868, when, Under the command of Captain Kein-
ball, she took 61 days from London Docks to
Hobson’s Bay.
THE BURGLAR SCARE.
CATTLE DEALER: " Why didn't you go over
to town for the holiday, Harry !”
CAMBEWARRA HARRY : “ You see, Boss, the
Missus wanted to take the kids out, and
someone had to stay at home and look after
the house; so many burglars about. "
When the Northern Territory John Hop
meanders round his beat it’s a sure thing he won’t
be back to breakfast for a day or two. In bringing
in a couple of blackfellows charged with murder the
police covered 1500 miles. One constable, after
depositing his prisoner at the required lock-up,
started off to his home-station to pick up the routine
work. He had only 700 miles to go.
According to a recent report of the Chief
Piotector of Aborigines in the Northern Territory
the original landlords of Australia are rapidly pass-
ing out. Professor Spencer estimated that in the
Territory there were probably 50,000 natives, but
Stretton (the late Protector) reckons that
until the country is better known it is impossible to
estimate nearer than 20,000 or 30,000. . One thing
they are agreed upon is that the numbers are de-
creasing so hurriedly that our dusky cousin’s address
will be the Museum before the war’s over, if the war
lasts long enough.
I*. C. de C.” : The loss of the ketch Bronze-
wing on the coast of King Island (Tas.) calls to mind
some of the old-time tragedies of that treacherous
shore, when the only light was perched on the
northern extremity, and the glimmer of it was often
mistaken for the Cape Otway beacon, which lies 45
miles due north. Bewildered navigators falling Into
that error steered further south, and piled their
ships oh a tangle of reefs which runs three miles
out from the shelving land. That is how the
British Admiral was lost, with 70 lives, in 1874.
As far back as 1835 the Newa broke up on the same
rocks and drowned 300 people. In 1845 the French
ship Cataraqui met destruction on the Island’s west
coast, and of 413 on board only nine reached shore
alive. Up to 1879, when the authorities erected a
second lighthouse, 21 wrecks were debited to the
island and 805 lives had gone to Davy Jones’s crypts.
The late Captain Currie, of Melbourne, salvaged
what was left of the British Admiral. He wag the
first man to put a boat upon the waters of Currie
Harbor, which was named after him, and is still the
only port available to the 700-odd inhabitants of the
place.
* * * *
“L.N.”: There was great excitement in
Port Moresby (Papua) when war was declared. The
Government commandeered, a H the launches firs'!
thing, and men organised themselves into a patrol
corps, and took it in turns to clamber about the
hills, barking their shins. One day a bareheaded
horseman galloped into the settlement, gasping that
80 Germans had landed on the back beach, a mile or
so away. Women barricaded themselves in, and
men upset precious beers, and everybody waited for
the invader to materialise. When he didn't, scouts
went and peeped around the hills and discovered
that the “80 Germans’’ were a whaleboat-load of
miners from down the coast. Then everyone wanted
to chop that False Alarmer into small pieces with
an axe. And they’ll want to kill me for telling you
about it.
* * * *
The busliman’s fervent prayer on the death
of his favorite hound, as announced in the local
paper:—-
£2 REWARD
WILL be paid to anyone giving me proof positive of
the poisoner of my dog “Bluey.” £2 for two
minutes with the murderous blackguard, may whose
body and soul suffer the torments of perpetual Hell.
BLANK BROWN,
Apoinga, Dandenong.
* * * *
“Wandi”: Many familiar bush sounds are
faithfully imitated by various mocking birds in
scrub and forest. The crack of a stockwhip, the
tinkle of a bell, the ring of an
anvil, the chock-clock of dray-wheels,
the bush man’s cooee, and the chop of
an axe are sounded in many of the
eastern and northern brushes. The
swish and hum of the crosscut saw,
the barking of dogs, the clucking
of hens and the crowing of a rooster
are well imitated by the lyre-bird
and the spotted bower-bird. The
litter his often scared me ir. quiet
places with a low hiss like a snake’s.
Its cousin, the toothbill. is almost
equally clever in mocking other
birds and mimicking sounds with
which it has become familiar. The
spangled drongo, an active and noisy
glossy-black bird with a long, forked
tail, imitates the calls of many other
birds. Its own note is a peculiar,
creaky whistle. It is the boss of
the dense timber—a vicious fighter
which attacks even hawks. The
olive-backed oriole, whose flesh-red
bill and scarlet eyes attract notice
in open forests, imitates, among other
bird-calls, the cry of the kurrawong,
or pied bell magpie. You will sometimes find
it in orchards amusing itself with its mimicry, to
the annoyance of the sly kurrawong, who is there
to steal fruit. It seems to recognise that it is no
use pretending to be a kurrawong while it can be
seen, for it generally gets under cover before display-
ing its vocal accomplishments. Its own melodious
note is vented joyously in the open.
“P.X.”: “Pick’s” recent story of the sad
decadence of the Rock Flat mineral spring, near
Cooma (N.S.W.), plainly came from one of the
whiskered bullockies who in the long ago used to
meet at the bubbling pool and go away feeling like
a herd of bounding- lions. I’ve met those toothless
ex-bullockies everywhere. In their day the place
swarmed with kangaroos, which never leapt less
than 25 yards, and they got up one morning and
put up three-quarters of a mile of post-and-rail fence
before breakfast —and there was plenty chaps knock-
ing round then who could have done a mile and a
half. They could have done a mile and a half
themselves only they had to knock off that morning
and sink a well another 10ft. or so to get water.
And bullicks—they invariably had a bald-face poley
that once shifted two ton from Countaguinea to Sheet
o’ Bark. Old Smith made the waggon wheels. You
don’t see wheels like them now. Once old Smith—
Bricky Smith he was—bet Blinky Whitehead he
could make a set of wheels that’d carry five ton 20
mile without tyres, and, of course, he done it. The
ancient bullocky, in short, is a hairy old romancer.
If he wasn’t, and really knew what he was talking
about, he would admit that there isn’t any chemical
change in the Cooma water. It doesn’t “bite” now;
it never did “bite,” and it wouldn’t be the good
“water” it is if it did bite. But it has all the
medicinal properties it ever had; and you can find
out what they are by calling for a bottle.
A BORED BABY.
FATHER: “Well, nurse, and how is baby this morning?"
NURSE: “ splendid, sir; he does nothing but sleep."
FATHER: “ U m! The little beggar must be getting blast."
“Skibbo”: Dennis Cody, by profession
dogcatcher, of Arcoona (S.A.), was riding about 13
miles from -the station when his horse fell, throwing
the rider and breaking his leg. Time, noon. Cody
succeeded in patching up his limb with bits of stick
and his shirt. After an hour’s crawling round he
succeeded in catching his horse, but how to mount
was a problem he had not solved by dark. Afraid to
sleep, he held the reins all night, knowing that, if
he again lost his horse, the crows would have their
Christmas a month earlier in those parts. At day-
break, by climbing on a branch of a tree, he suc-
ceeded in regaining his saddle just 21 hours after his
spill. He rode to the homestead, was driven 35 miles
to the siding, and, after about a hundred-mile train
journey, arrived in Port Augusta Hospital. At a
subsequent interview the boss of the station asked
Cody how he managed to hold out the night after
the accident. “Well,” drawled the cool casual, I
read one time in The Bcllyteen how a bloke was
in the same mess as me and he got out, and I
reckoned what one bloke could do oughtnter beat
another bloke.”
“Paddy Melon”: “Bronchoing,” or brand-
ing calves in the open isn’t a job for the suburban
bushman. Cows and clean-skin calves are held on camp
by generally four or five men. The camp is pitched
near a suitable tree with a branch high enough for
a horseman to ride under. To this branch is fixed
an iron hook. Then a fife is made to heat the
brands. The catchers are mounted on horses broken
to the game. A twisted greenhide rope is fixed to
a special surcingle over the saddle. The catcher
rides into the mob, lassoes his calf and drags it out
to the tree. To steady the calf the rope is run
through the hook, and the catcher rides on until his
calf is hauled up far enough. There are generally
four men at the tree. One ropes the hind leg,
another the front, the head rope is loosed and the
calf falls (the leg-ropes have been previously hitched
to stakes). The branding is then done apd the
animal released. One day I saw four catchers handle
300-odd calves at, the rate of 90 per hour. To attain
this average even in a yard I reckon some -of the
“inside” stockmen would have to throw themselves
about.
*** * :
“A. 8.” : I am authorised, by a duly con-
stituted meeting held at Bourke, to convey fraternal
greetings to David Low from the Honorable Order of
those who hump Bliiey. The whole tribe of artists
have drawn Matilda and Matilda’s transport, but the
“nosebag” or “tucker-bag” has ahvays been either
missing or misplaced. When last in Sydney I spent
two bob on beer, trying to bribe one of the legion
to go to The Bulletin office to show the artistic
staff the way a swag and nosebag are worn. But he
jibbed at the last corner. In Low’s “March from Mos-
cow” we get the true style. And now I’m blanked
if it isn’t a spike-helmeted German who carries the
swag and tucker-bag in the orthodox fashion !
“Lagani-Namo”: On the sixth night after
the October full moon every man, woman and child
in the Banks or Torres Groups, armed with palm-
leaf flambeaux and scoop nets, goes out along the
reef to await the phenomenal visitation of the
palolo wormfish. The marine harvest usually arrives
about 2 a.m., and for an hour or more the water
is literally viscid with threadlike worms measuring
up to a foot in length. It is weird to watch the
excited natives, lighted by the flaring torches, scoop-
ing the worms aboard the canoes as though their
existence depended on the quantity each caught.
THE ONLY CHOICE.
“If we all ’ad to work, ' Entry, wot would
you rather be? ”
“A corpse!"
They know well that the palolo will disappear as
suddenly as they eaine, and that they will not be
seen again until the corresponding night of the
following year. The story of this wriggling deli-
cacy has still to be written. Year in, year out,
without a known exception, the phenomenon flickers
into existence for one brief period exactly at that
Lunar phase.
THE MILLIONAIRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I thought I Was poor,
But now I swear
I could fling my old cap into the air,
And send such a shout to the mOining skies,
That the Night should waken in quick surprise,
And, rubbing the sleep from her drowsy eyes,
Come forth to. stare
At the Millionaire.
I thought I was poor,
But now I swear
I am rich and happy beyond compare;
With a miser’s rapture my wealth I view,
In the glint and the glamor of morning dew,
While the birds send out of the dazzling blue
A Weleome rare
To the Millionaire.
I thought I was poor,
But here am I,
And no man is richer beneath the sky;
Little I thought when the Morning bade
Me forth, with its call so swift and glad,
Of the gift for me that the Morning had—
The princely share
For the Millionaire.
So I riot and revel in wealth untold,
In the gleam and the glory of wattle gold.
N.s.w.
OSCAR HESTON.


PEBECO
Tooth Paste.
If our teeth could talk —they
would say something like this: —-
“Yes, we are thankful for our
friends —the millions of Tooth
Brushes. They do a splendid
work—so far as they go. We
are grateful for the hundreds of
dentifrices. They in turn do a
splendid work—so far as they go.
But both together fall far short of
protecting our enamel—our only
weapon of tooth protection. Is
there no escape from these
‘MOUTH AClDS’—these ever-
present mouth fluids which, un-
seen, unbidden, are working day
and night to break down our
armor plate—and then make the
soft inside tooth structure easy
prey to decay-germs?”
We answer:
“There IS escape from ‘Acid
Mouth.’ Pebeco Tooth Paste is
the one dentifrice to-day which
prevents ‘Acid Mouth’ —the direct
cause of 95 % of all tooth-decay,”
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
Made in Australia by
G. ARNOLD,
G O’Connell St., Sydney.
(WHOLESALE ONLY.) [4
The latest manufactory to be established in the
Commonwealth is for the production of ammonia,
Messrs. Scrubb & Co., Ltd. having decided that with
the protection afforded by the tariff and the big
business they already do with their preparations in
Australia, the future of the industry is very bright
indeed.*
The possession of a high-priced motor-bike does
not always assure comfortable travelling. Every-
thing depends on the selection of a comfortable
saddle, and even an old “bone-rattler” can be made
to provide a little comfort if properly saddled.
Messrs. J. B. Brooks & Co., Ltd., of Birmingham,
who have been manufacturers of cycle saddles for
over 35 years, have studied the subject exhaustively,
and have designed saddles to suit every build of
bikist. The firm’s MOTOR-CYCLTSTS’ BOOK deals
with the subject fully.*
The Experienced Traveller
Knows the Value of a
“MO S Q I E L”
RUG.
It will stand any weather and
afford Warmth and Comfort
under every circumstance.
The IDEAL TRAVELLING RUG !
Sold at all the Best Shops.
[4
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
DUPLEX
BRACES
FOR
MEN
OF
ACTION
“Bill”: What price this for luck? Three
miners, Mick O’Brien. Frank Mazza and Jim Gorey,
were entombed at Marvel Loch (W.A.), from 10.30
on Friday morning till 10.20 on Monday night.
Two of the men, Mazza and O’Brien, came out
unharmed. Gorey was killed. After a rest, Mazza
and O’Brien took a motor-car to Perth. Close up
to Southern Cross the car driver ran over a stump,
and the invalids were thrown out. Mazza and
O’Brien once more- escaped injury, and arrived safely
in Perth. After that I reckon they ought to buy a
ticket in “Tatt.’s.”
* * * *
“Machete”: There’s nothing very new in
the discovery in Italy of a liqueur made from euca-
lyptus (B. 3/12/’l4). Many an Australian Outback
shanty genius has gone to the “eucalypt vineyard”
when his stock of liquor needed replenish’’
Edward Dyson knows that. Years ago, in one of his
verses, he described a lady who was wise to our
national vegetable’s advantages:—
.... and from roots of the gum
Mrs. B. could extract the most illigant rum.
* * * *
From Tiie Bulletin’s most exclusive
Maori girl:—•
Mr. B.- —I am very sorry to you that I hope you
are get it in so well. To my dear sir, this just
writing you a few lines of words, to let you know
that I am in best state of health. I am very sorry
to you I so glad to see you in some of those days,
and then that’s all about my love. Myself is alright.
Return my letter if you kindly please. Well, dear
Mr., perhaps you might be up here in some time,
dear Mr., I am very glad of your preson of love
that you sent to me. —Remain by, Rhwa.
* * * *
“The Reefer” : The Papuans have a reason-
able excuse for believing that the white man (Aus-
tralian) looks upon murder as a mild joke. Their
crimes are not punished seriously enough. Gaol, as
we apply it, is to them a picnic. They get plenty
meat, tea, sugar, fish,. vegetables, indigenous fruit
and tobacco, with female prisoners to do their
laundry work. When a murderer’s term is completed
the gaoler often has to insist on his leaving the happy
home, and, to make his thoughts of it all the sweeter,
he is supplied with a swagger loin cloth, singlet and
other things when he goes out. The result is that
crime is on the increase, and, in the settlements,
natives become more and more impudent year after
year. Governor Romilly (one of Downing-street’s and
Exeter Hall’s relics) was the first to introduce this
ultra-humanitarianism. In his time the natives of
Normanby Island butchered an inoffensive Captain
Miller. The Dart was sent to punish them. While
she was at anchor a man paddled out and gave
arm-shells and other native valuables to the officers.
Presently it transpired that this was the principal
murderer, and that the trumpery trinkets he’d
brought were intended as payment for Miller’s life.
“We were so delighted with the boy’s nonchalance
in bearding the lion in his den that he was treated
as a great pet. I may say here that, as- he was
undoubtedly one of the murderers, he was taken to
Port Moresby for a year and put to fairly light work
there,” ran the report. Some day the native con-
victs will petition the Government for a daily ration
of beer; and I have-no doubt they’ll get it.
PRECISION.
CONSTABLE: “Hire, yez can't lay here on the pathway, me friend. Ye're makin' all the
people go round yer."
INEBRIATED ONE: “ Not all, conshable. Some of 'em have gone through me.”
“Boh”: A mild-faced Jersey cow is the
present horror of our seaside suburb. She won’t look
at grass if there’s a towel or a bathing-suit to be
had. A woman who was washing two small children
in the shallows rushed shrieking from the sea when
she turned and beheld the horned beast looking like
a jumble sale. You could hardly see its thoughtful
countenance for haberdashery. She rushed to the
animal’s front counter and grabbed at all the loose
bargains; but it was near closing time, and the
animal slammed its teeth in her face. All that re-
mained to the infuriated woman, beyond a few use-
less remnants, were two pairs of small sandals, a
wooden spade and a tin bucket. The cleverest woman
that ever lived could not dress two naked children
in a wooden spade and a tin bucket, so she clothed
them with a four-wheeled cab, and took them home
that way.
THINKING OF HOME.
BENNO : “ Why don’t yer go home, guv'ner?
Yer or ter think of yer missis si it in’ up
waitin’ for yer.”
THE DRUNK: "Thath what I am thinkin' of
(hic), ol’ mansh.”
“H. 1.0.”: Add this to “Boronia’s” re-
marks (B. 3/12/’l4) about the eagles in the Leeuwin
forests. The wedge-tailed eagle, to give him his
proper name, is the largest of all eagles; even the
much-advertised bald-headed variety which screams
in Yankeeland is in the galloway class by compari-
son. The big fellow can nip up a good-sized lamb
as easily as a hawk annexes a chicken. I regret to
say that the otherwise fine fellow is something of a
carrion-eater. In the summer of ’97 I came sud-
denly on a huge eagle sitting on a pine in a sand-
ridge near St. George (Q.). At the foot of the tree
was the body, of a swagman dead of thirst, and there
were evidences that the feathered aristocrat had
already begun .luncheon. He decided that he’d lost
his appetite after I had expressed my opinion on
the subject.
“Out iv me house!” Clarke scrambled
over the counter, and jumped at Rafferty.
Red cross-buttocked the poor man, and
Paddy dived with his head in the north
corner.
Clarke arose and grappled with Rafferty.
“Judith !” he squealed. “Judith Clarke, will
yeh come to me?”
While the men tussled Mrs. Clarke ap-
peared in the doorway, a stout block of a
red body, with soapsuds on her strong arms.
“ ’X’ for whoi d’yeh stan’ there garpin’,
woman?” squealed Clarke. “Take a hand
wid Rafferty.”
“’N’ what’re yeh doin’ wid the same
inquired Judith.
“I’m trowin’ him out, can’t you see, you
fool woman !”
“ ’Tis well to know,” said Judith, and,
putting another twitch to each sleeve she
fastened on Red Rafferty when he was
stooping. Red arose suddenly, and Mrs.
Clarke slipped over his shoulders, poised on
her head for one fearful moment, then com-
pleted the revolution, falling heavily. The
next moment Clarke shot into the corner
again. .
“Have yeh done trowin a man out:' said
Rafferty. The two Clarices rushed him,
and bore him before them against the bar.
“Bartholomew !” squealed Clarke. “Bar-
tholomew ! Hill t’ yer soul, will yeh never
come to me biddin’V Bartholomew
Clar-r-ke!”
Paddy’s lubberly elder son appeared in
the doorway. Leaning on the jamb, he sur-
veyed the struggle with no interest. “Was
it me?” said he.
“ ’Twas you, you leather-headed omalidaun,
who ilse? Come ’n’ help your ould father
wid the trowin’ iv Rid Rafferty.”
“I’m afther eatin’ me males,” said Bar-
tholomew sullenly. “I’ll lave the house, so
I will, ’n’ immejit, will I, if a poor bye
can’t ate his food dispassionate ’n’ wid com-
fort fer the trowin’ out iv one ’n’ another.”
But Bart lent a hand in a dispirited way,
and the three jostled Rafferty about the
place, breaking a form and a chair, but fail-
ing to effect a satisfactory ejectment..
“Myra!” piped Mrs. Clarke, breathlessly.
“Myra, me gir-r-1, will yeh come here this
inslitant?”
Myra appeared. Myra was the eldest
daughter.
“Will yeh lave yer pianee a shmall while,
’n’ help wid Rafferty?”
“G’long wid yeh, ma, ’n’ get Katie, can’t
yeh? ’N’ me practisin’ me scales.”
“Yill come here, Miss, ’n’ yill help wid
Rafferty, like a good gir-r-1, ’r I’ll break the
back’iv yeh, maybe.”
Myra joined in the struggle under protest,
and presently Kate and Tommy were called
in, and now the whole family, saving and
excepting little Mick, in his gin-case cradle,
were rolling and tumbling with Red Raf-
ferty on the dusty bar-room floor.
It was a great fight Rafferty put up. A
small man was Rafferty, but a tough, and
one of exceeding spirit and versatility in
battle. The Clarke family could do much
with him, but they couldn’t hit the door-
way. A dozen times they rushed Red’s
prostrate form, head first, for the goal, but
always with a valiant twist Rafferty evaded,
and the struggle was resumed. Once Red
got his foot against the pit of the publican’s
stomach, and Paddy was shot through three
panels of his own counter.
Then Red shook himself free of the
family. “I’m not lavin’ yeh yet,” says he.
“Will yeh rest a while ’n’ send fer yer
gran’pa?” But the Clarkes were back at
him again. They bore him down, and,
taking his body, rushed the door. Again
they recoiled to the floor, Miss Myra under-
neath. Myra Clarke was the sweat strap-
ping girl, but slow to anger. This indignity
warmed her up, and as a result of the new
energy she put into the next bout Red Raf-
ferty was worn down, and a good rally car-
ried him right through the door, and spilt
him ignominiously on the King’s highway.
“Sit yeh there, yeh bla’srard,” panted the
publican, “till yiv larned jew rispict fer the
Clarkes iv Connaught.”
There was Silence in the bar for 10 min-
utes. Rafferty was sitting up outside, col-
lecting his thoughts. Presently he appeared
at the door. He stole in, and took up his
hat. Clarke, still on his guard, watched
out of the tail of his eye, while polishing a
glass.
Red Rafferty came forward, g coin held
tight between finger and thumb. He clipped
sixpence on the counter. “Wan pint iv
beer, if you plase, Misther Clarke,” said he.
“Iv coorse, Misther Rafferty,” said
Clarke, pulling the liquor. “There’s nothin’
like a shmall bit iv an ar-r-gumint to inlarge
the mind.”
Red took his head between his two hands.
“Thrue for ye, Pathrick,” he said. “Me
own’s that inlar-r-ged I’d hardly know it.
I dthrink yer hilth, Misther Clarke, coupled
wid that iv yer dacent good wife.”
“Thank yeh kindly, Misther Rafferty, fer
mesilf ’n’ hersilf, ’n’ anny time at all will do
for the few thriflin’ shillin’s yer owin’ —
widin a wake, that is. or tin days, maybe.”
'T’m glad yeh minded me, Pathrick. Good
day to yeh.”
“Good day, Misther Rafferty. Good day
’n’ God bless yeh.” '
So they parted.
EDDYSON.
THE LIFEBELT COCKTAIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The lad sat in the soft-drink shop,
A\ here all around was glass ;
Ihe waitress, who was “fit ter drop,”
Was just the usual ass ;
The drink she’d brought was piled on top
With bits of cork. Alas !
The lad peered at the deadly drink ;
No ostrich wild was he ;
The waitress did not start or shrink
(A weary ass was she).
She asked, because she could not think,
For payment instantlee.
The lad he gave her back the brew
With an offensive snort.
“This ain’t wot I re-quired of you !
It was a drink, ol’ sport!
D’ye reel.v think I’m goin’ ter chew
This lifebelt wot yer brought ?”
N.sav.
KODAK.
An Argument with Rafferty.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
LITTLE Red Rafferty entered Paddy
Clarke’s bar at Pigtail, with the fine
airs of a man of great circumstance.
His trifling hat was to the back of his head,
and the thumbs of him were hooked in the
armholes of his vest; and said he, with the
manner of a man who’d given the matter
due and weighty consideration: “I’ll have
a long beer, I’m thinkin’.”
Paddy put his elbows on his counter, and
he set his chin between his fists. “You’ll
not, I’m thinkin’,” said he. “Lastewise not
widout a thrifie iv sixpence, lagil tinder,
paid in advance.”
“Wha-a-at!” gasped Red, incredulously.
“Am 1 deceived be me own bearin’? Would
a man iv your standin’ ’n’ reputation,
Pathrick Clarke, Isquire, debar a Christian
frim his raysonable refrishmint fer the sake
iv a paltry mather iv a wee sixpence?
Afther all I’m owin’ yeh, too?”
“There yiv hit it, Rid Rafferty. Till
yeh elane from me slate the siven ’n’ twinty
dthrinks yeh had Sathurday ’n’ Sunday,
nothin’ more will yeh get of credit c .ss this
counter.”
Rafferty looked the publican square in
the eye. “Niver a doubt yeh know yer
business, Clarke,” says he. “Yer aware,
maybe, iv the lagil sub-til-ties involved?”
“I’m fully aware iv all ’n’ ivrvthin’ nade-
ful, Misther Rafferty.”
“Yiv tuck advice iv a lawyer, concernin’
the qualifications ’n’ disparities iv yer
license, I dunno. Yeh have well in yer
mind ’tis conthrary to the statoot made ’n’
pervided, ’n’ agin the Act to refuse rayson-
able rifrishmint to man or beast.”
“Annyway, I don’t want the ticknicalities
nor preambulations iv the law frim Rid
Rafferty.”
“Yer fully advised ’n’ aware in your own
mind, Pathrick Clarke, licensed victchew-
eller, iv the pinalties fer sich conthravin-
tion ?”
“Git frim me house, Rid Rafferty.”
“That I will not, Paddy Clarke, ’n’ never
was the Clarke, livin’ or dead, could pit me
out. Manewhile, I’m askin’ yeh, formally
’n’ wid mar-r-ked politeness, in the prisence
iv witnesses, fer wan long glass iv beer in
accord wid the formalities iv the statoots.”


Owing to the shortage of copper for
war purposes, domestic utensils, cook-
ing pots, coal scuttles, etc., made of
Conner are being appropriated by the
German War Manufacture departments.
—-Cable.
Mr. R. Beckett abjured Mr. Hagel-
thorn and his Ministerial colleagues in
the Council to keep an eye on the Pre-
mier—to keep him out of the Labor
wardrobe, from which he seemed in-
clined at times to borrow a garment
‘ here yid there.
2 (Report *f t®"> >
J I ttou S e of fit) A*
LABOR WARDROBE.
TSmmy (XVlfit Kettle
"Blimc. Ewy, doniwis 7°“
of* 'Otne, sweet; one f
Kow Iwouldnt'mmd
■borrowing: t ,
<>? A s^c
' stuff myself.
George, Reid ist •
deeded do
to (
We propose pursuing a vigorous
policy of forest conservation and re-
afforestation. If we find that the
revenue available is insufficient to do
the work in a reasonable time. We shall
ask for Parliamentary authority for tly>
application of loan moneys to mfeet toy
most urge*t requirement*. /
Reh.coc x)
AVdul: Wtyo is"tsV”st6uT infidel, y«ssu^?
'• I Know not Abdul. liftinK Ve
must "be wliad - English cajl
th<t ba,cK ©J my
?€&,cocls^Goy'erntnents sjaeci&J br&nd o f "timber.
It was resolved that every union
throughout the State should
and rouse public opinion against the
present fashions. It was also agreed
to write to the editors of fashion pape™*
pointing out this serious evil; to write
to every Sunday-school, and to as* the
National Council of Women to hold a
public meeting, to educate the public.
From report of W.C.T.U.
£cL C 3
Vp
% r
P
London, Friday.—The Berlin "BofM*
Courier** states that 7200 theatrical
artists are starving.
Ac lor: * How slajvViorr
2’V*Ditto " WeH. ilj very limittne- dc*r
boy. I could undertcv'Ke-
feter Doo dy m 117 c
present/ bu'hV’otfjer
op
would just me equ&l do
'tfte 6h°sti*i "Ha.mle+'.''
Ail
Hfcick
Up
: The Gorernment has put upon tha \
’working man's pint of beer a war tar of
per Dint. “The trade” has imposed /
Mi extra charge of Id. per pint, thus
securing for itself an increase of id. per
putt, on all outdoor trade, and removed
the pints from the bar to substitute
glasses very much smaller than the
ordinary “long beer.” This Is simply
an exploitation of the public by the
fcrj»d«y
Y/.C.T.U Reformer * Are*t"you
yourself , fcJ>ou{" in mV"
sViotKine Cod*unre .?* . «
,/Vwf-ul 7 not;sister. On wiltt
iPje good WorK. Inj public-
Union • Wash VI show o u?o b]
€xtr* charges "by stf’iKmg &oVnst beer.
Who Will underffcKe. to pfcKtt -HfC \>ub b J "
Fervent* &n<i Choruy.— " J Will!
bitterly] -—*”
MIXED ITEMS.


“0 *7 j. ’ ”
btlu stria
( Regd.)
The New
Silk Stripe Flannel.
Garments replaced free
should they shrink or
colors fade.
boater;
£.' K?
X
m
i i
I'V / m
rt / -/If
V /J!
Your Hat
Should be correct as to Style, Shape, Weight
and Price. WOODROWS’ HATS fill the
bill and meet all requirements.
When you ask for a WOODROW HAT
there is a sense of satisfaction in knowing
that you are buying an article which repre-
sents full value, and maintains its wearing
qualities to the end.
YOUR Hatter Stocks WOODROWS’.
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [2
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Last week saw the final retirement of
Frederic Chappie, headmaster of Prince
Alfred College, at Adelaide. Next year—
which he spends on leave —would be his
40th in the post, and that must be nearly
a record in Heads. But Chappie started
young. In fact, he is not quite 70 yet, and
plays tennis regularlv. He has reared an
exceptionally clever family of his own while
looking after other people’s; six of the eight
have taken good degrees at Adelaide
University, and several of them have added
other degrees elsewhere. His place will be
taken by Bayly, who was second master at
P.A.C. for years before becoming Head at
Geelong, whence he now returns.
LISTER-LISTER, High Panjandrum of
Art in N.S.W.
The professional consul lives a jumpy life.
Homery, who represents France in Victoria,
has been stationed at Chicago, Bombay, Cal-
cutta, Cairo, Luxembourg, New York and
Newfoundland. Ahara, the Russian, has
been at Valparaiso, Crete, Galatz (in Rou-
mania), Bucharest, Jerusalem, Bangkok and
Alexandria; and Lauwers, of Belgium, has
been in Paris (as attache). Guatemala,
Batavia and Bogota (Colombia).
Captain George Ritchie, South Australia’s
new Minister of Public Works, is a son of
the late James Ritchie, who came from
England with Captain Francis Cadell and
opened up the Murray trade over 60 years
ago. Cadell’s party of seven comprised him-
self, James and John Ritchie, George John-
ston, Thomas Johnstone, William Barber and
John Barclay. Barber, who lives in Adel-
aide, is the only survivor of the group.
Poor dead old Charles 11. has, of course,
come in for a bad time by reason of the
German bombardment of Scarborough. The
daily paper man has hunted up his
school history, and has refreshed his
memory with the bilious and inaccurate
pages of Macaulay in the Public Library,
and he explains at length how this is the
first time an enemy has attacked England
since the dark days when Michael Adrian
de Ruyter threatened London with his Dutch
fleet. Then the usual brick is thrown at
Charles 11., who seems to be everybody’s dog
—mostly by reason of Macaulay. Some
people would like to build a tower 16
storeys high for the mere joy of throwing
the gay king’s bones from the top window
and hearing them bounce on the pavement.
Charles, though he was a casual and drift-
ing cuss, defended England much more
successfully than Alfred the Great, the first
magnificent snuffiebuster in English history.
And he didn’t get down so low as George
111., who lost almost all his empire and
experienced the misery of having some of
his best ships captured by Admiral Jones in
sight of Scarborough. Nor did Charles
treat his Parliament with half the indignity
that Cromwell did. He was always hard
up, but then he hadn’t the chances that
Cromwell enjoyed. That amazing tyrant
had special sources of income—the plunder
of Scotland, the plunder of Ireland, the
money he made by the confiscation and sale
of the property of his political opponents,
and the proceeds of the sale of his prisoners
of war as slaves in the West Indies. His
standing army was strong enough to enable
him to resist payment of any debt, and the
warts on his nose were so terrifying that
few people cared to ask him for money. The
casual, easy-going, immoral humorist who
came after him was a person of shifts and
expedients instead of warts and texts. He
was the complete bloke, just as James V. of
Scotland was the complete vagrant or gipsy
or “gaber-lunzie.” But why the cheap
reporter should always want to bounce a
rock on his skull because of his one marine
disaster, while Alfred, who lost half the
kingdom, is a national hero, no one knows.
Probably Alfred had a better press agent.
• The recent death of J. D. Wood leaves
Chief Justice Madden the senior ex-Minister
in Victoria. He had the Justice portfolio
in the McCulloch Government of 1575.
Cables report the retirement of
Lord Aberdeen, Viceroy of Ireland.
Mystery has been the chief character-
istic of his regime in Dublin. First,
there was the disappearance of the
Dublin Crown jewels. Rumor stalked
the United Kingdom for years in this
matter, and always in association
with one of Aberdeen’s relatives.
Apart from that the Viceroy was an
embarrassment to everybody con-
cerned owing to his incurable habit
of taking sides in politics. His assist-
ance resembled that of the Kaiser—
it _ only helped the enemy. Lord
Wimborne, Aberdeen’s successor, is a
superior man, inasmuch as he owns
over 80.000 acres, while Aberdeen has
only 60,000 acres; moreover, Wim-
borne has no whiskers. As the Hon.
Ivor Guest he was elected to the
House of Commons some years ago—
practically by his mother, who made
such a use of the Guest family influ-
ence as recalled the days of pocket
boroughs.
Our fellow-subject in India is a
credulous person, and is liable to
absorb strange ideas. Lately he was
informed by German agents that
George V. had been so completely
licked by the Kaiser that he had
painted himself brown and was
hidden in a fort at Bombay, where
he professed to be a Hindu in order
to avert suspicion. This Wend had a wide
circulation, and many colored money-lenders
fled to the hills, being seized with the idea
that British paper money was no longer of
any value.
Poor old Tommy Walker’s 40-year-old
freak in Canada, at a time when he was a
precocious youngster engaged in pulling the
public’s leg as a professor of spookery, has
been told at last to all Westralia. A local
paper had remarked on the disappearance
from the library of that copy of N.S.W.
Hansard in which sniteful old Henry
Parkes —who was no saint himself—had raked
up the entire business, on the principle that
no stick was too dirty to beat a Protectionist
dog with. Walker proceeded against the
paper for criminal libel —apparently not to
get. anybody punished, but to have a peg on
which to hang an explanation. And now
that he has told his story —or part of his
story—Westralia isn’t likely to think any the
less well of its Attorney-General than it did
before. As a matter of fact, if it knew just
how handicapped and dead-beat Walker was
when he left N. S. Wales, and then remem-
bers that he set out at past 45 to learn law
in practically a new land, and make a new
career for himself, it might feel inclined to
give him three cheers.
STILL PAYING.
THE SICK WAR LORD : “ Vot biases haf I ordered to pe taken at all gosts? ”
MILLITARY SECRETARY : “Paris, London, Calais, Warsaw, Pelrograd, Kobe and a few
others, your Majesty .”
TTHE SICK WAR LORD : “Und haf ve taken them?”
MILITARY SECRETARY : “Nein, your Majesty; but ve haf baid a lot of der gosts.”
The man who has plainly lost his job in
the present disturbance is the Khedive of
Egypt. He was the last of the Pharaohs,
and no Pharaoh had an easier billet. He
slept on a soft bed in his palace
beside the Nile and drew his salary.
By a sort of pretence he was sub-
ject to the Sultan of Turkey. In reality his
country was run by British officials, who
saw that his wages were paid, and saved him
all trouble, and prevented the Sultan from
interfering with him. He had nothing to do
save sit down and be affable and collect his
remuneration. And in a moment of insanity
the Khedive went to Constantinople, and
threw in his lot with the Turks when they
declared war against the Allies. So he may
expect to finish up as an ancient swagman
about Bourke or Thargomindali. It is im-
possible to sympathise with a man who in-
herits a rich sinecure and throws it away.
The Bulletin has six junior clerks who
would be better Khedives than the ass who
has just committed suicide.
Tom Mclvell, P.M. of Bathurst (N.S.W.),
has just died, aged 65. As a boy he got a job
in the local police court under Benjamin
Lee, P.M., now in his 90th year. The posi-
tion was humble, but he was a demon for
toil, and he stepped from one rung to the
other till he had reached the dizzy altitude
.of P.M. in his native city. That he was “a
good bloke” there is many a Western inebri-
ate to testify.
From “The Oldest Inhabitant”: —
The earliest Australian school-master and "parson
clerk” was Stephen Barnes, who came with Governor
Phillip in the First Fleet. He was not then a
salaried officer, though he was provided with every-
thing but cash. He had his schoolhouse at the junc-
tion of Bligh and Hunter streets, Sydney, where later
on was built the Rev. Richard Johnson’s “wattle and
dab” church. The first school-mistress was Susannah
Hunt, who came in a later fleet. She married
William Richardson, who was a First Fleeter and
the second school-master.
A ROSE BY ANY OTHER NAME, ETC.
Aid. Lawrence: Will you also note that the
wrong word is being used, and that we only punt
refuse, not garbage.
ALDERMAN WILOSTHIS (indignantly): “Sir,
I tell you it's not garbage — it's refuse! ”
SURFER: “Still—it ’ urns .”
Major Tom Smeaton, M.L.A., who is in
charge of the mail censorship at Adelaide,
has almost finished writing the Life of
Premier Tom Price, who died in 1909.
Smeaton was a Parliamentary colleague of
Price's, and the Life is in the capable hands
of one of the ex-Premier’s greatest admirers.
STODGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Stodger gets the early boat,
Though he’s over fifty,
Rich and fat. Please make a note:
Stodger gets the early boat,
And his eyes are shifty.
Maidens young and white of throat
Travel by the early boat.
Stodger gets the early boat,
Though he has no need to;
Giggling girls say “Silly goat!”
But he gets the early boat,
For what it may lead to.
Bitter lovers, young and lank,
Say his figure’s at the bank.
Stodger gets the early boat —
Dreams of maidens’ kisses:
Loads of them each morning float
Up to Sydney on the boat,
Far from home and missus....
Someone yet may drop a note
To his wife about that boat.
N.S.W.
DECK-HAND.
NO GOOD LOOKING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The hour of ten p.m. had struck.
Miss Agatha, a prim old duck,
Had brushed and put her hair away,
And knelt a little while to pray.
Her praying done, beneath the bed
The maiden lady dipped her head —•
A custom since the world began
With spinsters seeking out a man.
Then Martha, older and more wise,
Remarked, with little, hopeless sighs:
“No good, my love. I looked before.
They’ve all gone to the horrid war.”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


las
■f
35
sa
me
■
i
~
%>*%i
S*£:
-1 '\pv:.
ffifi
"w<
■TV”
/
v
On 1
MM.
t ' '■ ; yv.'tr^Sjg
' ‘ V?
:vi:<
HI
ssra
' ■ V .1 1 .
’■'■A
m
II
&
WivSftJ&fcjS
SSS-S'VSSaf
v«i«w
W-A
>;w
&sses
►Wv
<w
sy.ivi
ii
OM*
Sir
’
|M
Just d Scrap of Paper"
The British Bulldog
AND
DUNLOP TYRES
for Utmost Reliability.
Always Specify
DUNLOPS”
& ensure a
Big Mileage.
LATEST ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Launceston, Wellington and Christchurch


IRRIGATION.
We carry Large Stocks of Steam- and
Power-driven Reciprocating Pumps.
Also Large Stocks of Centrifugal Pumps suitable for Irrigation Work.
Cash or Terms.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
49 Clarence St„ Sydney
Overall, McCray, Ltd.
44 Campbell Street
SYDNEY.
SPECIALTY:
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow-
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Large Stocks also on hand—Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Pumps, &c. Send for Catalogue.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
The N.S.W. State Bank, officially known
as the Government Savings Bank of N.S.W.:
Profit. Reserves.
June, 1903 £18,992 £92,560
Loss.
». 1904 33,905 58,655
.» 1905 20,817 37,838
.. 1906 21,663 16,175
Dec., 1906 .. 4,484 11,691
Pro Ht.
1907 . .. 2,945 1
Accumulated interest on guarantee 1 19,654
deposit with Commonwealth, £5OlB .. J
Received on an adjustment of ac-
counts with the Treasury, £30.000 . . 49,654
Dec., 1908 9,116 58,769
.. 1909 7,790 66,559
.. 1910 27,275 93,834
.. 1911 44,988 138,822
,» 1912 22,508 161,330
Loss.
.. 1913 6,011 155,319
The loss for last year is the result of the
refusal of the State to admit that the
Savings Bank ought to be in the hands of
the Commonwealth, which controls the post-
office, the only suitable agency for trans-
acting the business. When the Common-
wealth took over the Post-office Bank a
couple of years ago the State consequently
established independent branches and
agencies wholesale. At the commencement
of 1912 there were 37 _ branches; at the
end, 114. At the same time, in the struggle
to get the business from the Commonwealth
oi Post-office Savings Bank, this State
concern, which had been paying 3 p.c.
interest up to £5OO, offered 31 p.c. for the
first £3OO. This rate continued during
1913; and the policy of business extension
was maintained.
As something plainly had to be done, im-
portant changes have occurred during the
current year. The 31 p.c. rate is now paid
only up to £2OO. More important still, with
a view to reducing exes, an amalgamation
has been arranged between this and what
was known as the Barrack-street
Savings Bank—the one that Premier
George Dibbs saved at the time of the
crisis.
The following shows the wonderful growth
in deposits:—
1901 ..£6.647,289 | 1908 ..£12,118,772
1902 . . 7,100,108 j 1909 .. 13,303,421
1903 .. 7,018,425 [ 1910.. 15,190,820
1904 .. 7,952,885 | 1911 .. 17,595,695
1905 .. 8,883,651 | 1912 .. 20,128,598
1906 .. 9,322,923 | 1913 .. 22,216,985
1907 .. 11,128,495 |
It is a popular Tory yarn that the working
man hasn’t benefited by the high wages of
recent years because the consequent higher
cost of living has taken all his extra money
from him. Assuming that the Savings Bank
customer is mostly the wages man, the rapid
growth of the deposits shows that the
higher-cost-of-living brigand has -still left
him with a nice bit to lay by.
The assets to represent the deposits and
reserves are as follows: —
p.c. of
total.
Loans to N.S.W. Government .. £15,582,922 69.41
Loans to other Governments . . 108,076 .48
Loans to Advances Department.. 3,205,000 14.27
Municipal loans . . . . .. 776,182 3.45
Fixed deposits . . . . .. 485,000 2.16
Mortgages.. .. .. .. 1,283,486 5.71
Bank premises . . . . . . 330,800 1.51
Till-money and accrued interest.. 675,812 3.01
Total £22,447,278 100.0
The first line explains, of course, why the
State clung so desperately to the Savings
Bank business.
* * * *
Government Savings Bank of N. S.
Wales. —Advances Department :
Nominal
Reserves.
Taken over from Advances to Settlers Board. . £14,319
Profit.
1907 .. £4,735 19,054
1908 . . 4,661 23,715
Losses of A. to S. Board written off, £17,132.. 6,583
1909 . . 5,390 . . . . . . ~ 11,973
Losses of A. to S. Board written off, £3933 .. 8,040
1910 . . 7,566 15,606
1911 .. 9,744 25,350
1912 .. 10,334 35,684
1913 . . 13,019 48,703
The business of the Advances to Settlers
Board is panning out rather better than was
expected. At the beginning of 1907, when
the affairs of the haphazard old institution
were taken over, there was £401,741 of prin-
cipal outstanding. As shown above, the re-
serves, described then as nominal, were
£14,319. Gradually this contingency fund
lias been drawn upon until now it amounts
to only £4300, notwithstanding that all profit
made meantime on the old business has been
added to the fund. Still, the £4300 will, it is
believed, be quite ample, since the total prin-
cipal outstanding has been worked down to
£63,070, and an actual profit has been shown
lately on the business. The new business is
done on strictly commercial lines, and no
doubt need be entertained about its solidity.
As a matter of fact, the most common com-
plaint is that the Commissioners sniff too
hard at the security. However, when they
are satisfied and have accepted it, the bor-
rower has the joy of knowing that he has got
extraordinarily liberal terms —the extraordi-
narily liberal terms possible to a bank which
lias no shareholders that it must earn divi-
dends for. Practically all the funds for the
mortgages are provided by the Savings Bank
(Savings Department). Of £3,325,050 worth
of stock issued to finance the Advances De-
partment the Savings Bank has bought and
holds £3,205,000, and the other £120,050 has
been taken by the public.
In addition to making the ordinary ad-
vances, the bank has to finance borrowers
under the Closer Settlement Promotion Act
(1910). That measure provides that “any
three or more persons who are qualified to
make and hold settlement purchases” may
borrow “the whole or any part of the pur-
chase money” of certain lands, and pay
(under an amending Act) 41 p.c. for the
accommodation. It is a risky thing to ad-
vance “the whole.. . .of the purchase money”
of any land ; but the Government guarantees
this bank against losses on this particular
business. So far, the transactions under this
Act have called for £1,890,686, of which
£1,264,264 had been actually paid over to
the vendors of estates to the end of the year,
as against £689,744 12 months previously.
The profit for the year was a poor little £75
—utterly inadequate, of course, to build up a
proper contingency fund.
**'*■*
The Executor. Trustee and Agency Co.
of South Australia (Adelaide) :
Writ-
ten off
Lease- Added
holds, to Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. etc. serves, serves.
1903 ..£2.836 6 p.c. = £921 —£1915 £5,102
1904 .. 1987 6 „ „ 921 £SS 971 6,073
1905 . . 2302 7 „ „ 1075 100 1127 7,200
1906 .. 2662 7 „ „ 1075 151 1436 8,636
1907 . . 4013 7 „ „ 1075 100 2838 11,474
1908 .. 3776 8 „ „ 1228 100 2448 13,922
1909 ~ 4340 8 „ „ 1228 100 3012 16,934
1910 . . 5568 8 „,, 1228 100 4240 21,174
Premiums on new shares 4820 25,994
1911 .. 5472 8 p.c. = 1486 364 3622 29,616
1912 .. 5421 10 „ „ 2285 200 2936 32,552
Premiums on new shares 182 32,734
1913 .. 5314 10 p.c. = 2287 3027 35,761
Premiums on new shares 125 35,886
1914 .. 5359 10 p.c. = 2318 3041 38,927
This co. has the tremendous respectability
which is the chief asset of a trustee co. any-
where, and is of even more consequence in
South Australia than most places. Hence,
though there is now local competition in
the business, there is every reason to expect
that its work will go on increasing.
The movement hitherto is shown by this
growth in the value of trusts in hand:—
1895 .. £482,987 | 1911 ..£2,388,695
1900 .. 654,500 I 1912 .. 2,550,825
1905 .. 1,413,953 1913 .. 2,541,379
1910 .. 2,309,316 \ 1914 .. 2,752,126
And the field is not one-quarter worked yet.
No recent or official figures on the subject
are available; but an inquiry made in
another State showed that less than one-
fifth of the estates of dead men were admin-
istered by public companies. In time, in this
business, as in every other, the amateur
must disappear. And there is a special
reason why he should disappear in this
business. You choose a doctor knowing
that if he dies 24 hours after your own
death he really won’t be any the less satis-
factory a body-tinker so far as you are con-
cerned. But if you choose an executor
and he dies 24 hours or 24 months after
your death, there is liable to be no end of
bother. You want an executor who won’t
die and won’t even get too old to be alert;
and the only one you can get of that sort
is either a Public Trustee or a trustee co.
Inevitably, for this and a multitude of other
reasons, the business of this and other cos.
must increase so long as they are well con-
ducted.
Whether the profits will increase in pro-
portion is doubtful: it seems probable that
as time goes on, concessions will have to
be made. You get them already, in fact, in
the case of the Maoriland Public Trust
Office. True, there the concessions (the
chief of them being a guarantee of principal
and interest) have so far produced more
rather than less profit. In any case these
concessions will be gradual, and will
probably put the cos. on more solid founda-
tions than ever; and their dividends are
never likely to be poor—so long, of course,
as (1) they don’t make bad bloomers in
interpreting wills, etc., and (2) they don’t
invest their own funds unwisely. This
Adelaide, co.’s capital and reserves can be
put up into four bundles —public securities
and . cash, £20,478; advances to estates
(which should be perfectly safe), £13,995;
mortgages, £4220; properties and sundries,
£24,954. The risks here seem small; and
they are not added to by the backing of any-
body else’s bill. In other words, the co.
. has no deposits or other liabilities. With
the dull times commission earnings will
probably shrink; but as no serious losses of
principal will have to be provided for. and
as the margin of profit in excess of the divi-
dend has of late been wide, there is no
visible ground for expecting that the divi-
dend will have to be hauled down.
* * * *
The Australian Provincial Assurance
Association,. Ltd. (Sydney), which began
apparently with £BO6O of preliminary exes.,
or anyway showed that much on the issue of
the first accounts :
Mar., Income. Claims. Expenses. Deficit.
1912 _ £8,060
Oct,
1913 ..£10,219 £289 £18,213 16 343
1914 . . 17,288 866 28,473 28,394
This office was spoken to in a friendly way 32
months ago; but if similar accounts are pub-
lished again, the friendliness will ooze out of
this paper’s subsequent remarks. The big
fact of the case is that in two years the co.
has got £27,507 worth of business at a
cost of £46,686. Now, premiums have to
do something besides pay exes. They have
to provide for claims as well. In a general
way you may say that 20 p.c. of a premium
is assumed to be for exes, and 80 p.c. for
accumulation at interest to meet claims. In
the first year of a policy the exes, are of
course much more than 20 p.c. Though
there are offices which do it for less, Tiie
Bulletin wouldn’t object to one spending
the whole of the first year’s premium to get
the policy. But in this case, even if the
whole of the premiums were on first-year
policies (which of course they weren’t), the
expense rate last year—l6s p.c.—would be
excessive.
The management in the second annual re-
port refers to the tremendous amount of new
business written during the year. in this
respect “it is believed that the results con-
stitute a record for any office in Australia.”
If, however, the Australian Provincial keeps
its eye only on big business figures, it will
smash. There is nothing in the world more
certain than that. Any fool can get big
figures, just as any shop can sell tons of
goods if it likes to throw them out at less
than they cost. An insurance office is
simply a shop which sells certain goods.
Those goods cost a definite sum of money,
and you can’t afford to sell them for less
than that sum. It differs from other shops
in one important respect, however: it doesn’t
have to deliver the goods for, it may be,
years and years after the .first instalment is
made. That means, if it has taken the
customers’ instalments and used them in
paying salaries instead of buying the goods,
that it can’t deliver the goods at the due
date, unless it has means of its own. This
co. isn’t as bad as that yet, but it will get
like that if its expenses are not reduced with
an axe. _ Fortunately it has some share
capital—£s7,777 of it; and that must vanish
before the shutters go up.
So far £28,394 of it has gone, and to show
for it there is nothing that you can either
weigh or measure. But this doesn’t mean
that there is £29,353 of capital intact. Of
all the capital put up by shareholders and
the premiums put up by policy-holders there
is £29,383; but a considerable part of that
is earmarked to cover the co.’s liability under
policies. The directors say that in the past
year policies for £325,925 were written and
in the first year policies for £251.300. Plainly
a considerable liability has already accrued
under those policies; and all that is avail-
able to meet that liability is £29,383. It
is, probably, enough for the purpose; but if
the past furious pursuit of big figures at
anpalling cost is continued, what is left of
the £29,383 will soon not be enough. It is
not proposed to have an actuarial investiga-
tion for another three years. By that time,
unless the expenses are pruned hard, or
unless there is a wholesale forfeiture of
policies, the position may be—in fact, will
be —exceedingly serious. The law evidently
allows a co. to run five years without an
actuarial examination and report. Ordinarily
there might not be great danger in this. But
there obviously may be if a co. in those five
years makes a tremendous splash, and uses
up not only every penny of the premiums
as they come in, but the bulk of its share
capital as well, if it has any. The only
safeguard is the small cash deposit which
most of the States demand; but that is a
fleabite compared with what might be re-
quired by a really furious co. to meet its
policy obligations. The sooner the law pro-
vides for a plain official statement of the
position in the second and third years of an
insurance office, as well as in the forty-second
and forty-third, the better. In fact, when
it has reached 42 it has given some proof of
good behavior and knowledge of the business ;
while as a two-year-old it has given none.
Nor does the directorate chase away all
doubts regarding this office. The Board
consists of one suburban dentist and
two country doctors. The Bulletin
doesn’t know a thing against any one
of them. It merely suspects that the
affairs of an insurance office of this
character, which specialised in the somewhat
intricate house-purchase business 12 months
ago, though it is silent about it now, might
be more effectively controlled than it is likely
to be by a Board consisting of one suburban
dentist and two distant country doctors.
* * * *
The Sydney Ice Skating Rink & Cold
Stoeage Co
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1911. . £10,149 12 p.c.= £6OOO £2024 £2125 £10,012
1912.. 10,507 12 „ „ 7323 2181 1003 11,015
1913.. 14,550 124,,,, 8125 2395 4030 15,045
1914.. 12,732 124,,,, 8125 3492 1115 16,160
This is, in a manner, the successor of the
Sydney Cyclorama Co. That amusement
enterprise, which went for half a generation
without paying a single dividend —in fact,
it never paid a dividend after the first few
months —had the great good luck to own the
freehold; and by further great good luck
that freehold, while in George-street, was
very handy to Darling Harbor (where most
of the shipping of perishables for the port
of Sydney is done) and the railway. So a
far-seeing Sydney group, with some Mel-
bourne help, bought out the Cyclorama Co.
and put up the Glaciarium. So far as it
has to depend on the uncertain ice-skating
craze the co. has precious little claim on the
investor. There are a few people to whom
ice-skating is a more or less settled pastime ;
but its boom among the people who want
amusement, and can only be amused by some
new thing, is already dead. However un-
pleasant it may be, let the cold truth then be
told that, though the Society miss may think
the Glaciarium was built for her, in reality
she is only a sort of by-product, and the really
important person on the premises is the dead
sheep in the contiguous freezing chambers.
This cold-storage business has flourished
so much that four or five years ago it was
decided to build on a piece of land with a
Harris-street frontage, and running back to
the co.’s building; and two years ago 15,000
new shares were issued at par to pay for
additional premises thereon and further
plant. These building additions, etc., should
be available by the middle of next year.
With a bad drought the demand on the cold
stores would no doubt ease off; but as
against that, big local consumers are real-
ising more and more that, especially in a
climate like this, it is profitable to rely on
refrigeration to hold perishable stocks pur-
chased in times of glut. For the producer
this will also be a good thing in the long run,
since it must tend to steady prices. The
future of this co. therefore looks good, xlnd
the figures in the table speak eloquently for
the past. It is only necessary to add to
them that, though but £15,000 of new capi-
tal has been got in during the past three
years, in that period £3OOO has been wiped
off the debt to the Perpetual Trustee Co.,
£3350 has been paid for the Harris-street
property, £11,886 has been added to the net
cash and liquid assets, and a trifle over
£ll,OOO has been spent on the premises and
plant in replacements and otherwise. The
debt to the Perpetual Trustee Co. is now
£16,000; and deposits and cash amount to
£lB,o93—though that will have £13,000 or
so carved out of it by the time the additional
premises are ready.
* * * *
The Tasmanian Wool-Growers’ Agency
Co. (Launceston) :
Dividends and Written To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
1903 . . £3384 25 p.e. = £2231 £142 £lOll £12,900
1904 . . 3223 25 „ „ 2231 2858 11,124
1905 .. 3489 25 „ „ 2231 1000 258 11,382
1906 .. 3300 25 „ „ 2231 1250 11,201
1907 .. 3229 25 „ „ 2231 1000 11,199
1908 .. 2187 25 „ „ 2231 800 10,355
1909 . . 2990 25 „ „ 2231 767 10,347
1910 .. 3526 25 „ „ 2258 1200 68 10,415
1911 .. 3240 25 „ „ 2231 1000 9 10,424
1912 .. 2855 25 „ „ 2231 500 124 10,548
1913 .. 2832 25 „ „ 2231 500 101 10,649
1914 ~ 2559 25 „ „ 2231 500 10,477
“The directors feel that, although prospects
for next year are not good, the time has not
yet arrived for any alteration to the dividend
and bonus.” Prospects certainly are not
good. Tasmania has been having a dry
time; and this and the seriously-affected
market isn’t going to be any advantage to a
wool-selling co. The fact that on a paid
capital of £B5OO the co. has £40,448 of lia-
bilities and no less than £36,386 of accounts
and advances owing (no doubt mostly by the
men who will he hit up by the drought and
the absence of a market), makes the outlook
no brighter. Further, the co.’s operations
show up no better when it is noted that, in
a reasonably good year, the reserves have
been drawn upon to pay an excessive and
greedy 25 p.c. dividend and bonus. Apart
altogether from the co.’s- ability or otherwise
to make this distribution, it seems pretty
certain that, when the cocky sees that a
co. pays 25 p.c. year after year out of the
commission it charges for selling his wool
and doing other jobs for him, he will sooner
or later begin to think.
* * * *
The Warrnambool Woollen Co. (Warr-
nambool, Vic.) was established in 1909. but
didn’t begin production till early in 1911.
The deficit with which the co. starts in the
following table is represented by preliminary
exes.:—
Writ- To Re- De-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. ten Off. serves, ficit.
1910 .. _ £472
Reserves.
1911 .. £B7l Nil £B7l 399
Other goodwill items added, £4O .. 359
1912 .. 2490 5 p.c. = £1207 £1125 158 617
1913 .. 5637 6 „ „ 1557 2712 1368 1885
Premiums on new shares . . 65 1950
1914 . . 3956 6 p.c. = 1749 2498 1659
Though profit shrank a little “owing to the
increased cost of raw material and the poor
blanket season,” the directors have felt justi-
fied in ordering additional carding and spin-
ning plant and a complete electric-power
oufit. Unfortunately, after contracts for
these things had been let, a deranged per-
son eluded his keepers in Europe and, being
at large, ,is still causing trouble. A start
had been made to dispose of 6000 pref. and
6UOO ordinary shares; but when 2047 of
both classes had been marketed, the deranged
gentleman transpired, and negotiations in
progress for the underwriting of the balance
were suspended. And the co. could do with
the money, because, even before paying out
for the new plant, it is leaning on the bank
to the extent of £13,502. and owes £l7lO
besides. The fact is the co. has raised
Dust enough capital to pay for its premises
and plant and finance its book debts; but
tor the fairly heavy stock, manufactured and
partly manufactured, most of it ready or
being got ready for delivery on fixed dates,
the co. has to rely on its banker.' The
latter might be less affable if the money
was going into plant; hence, as money must
t O, V 1(l f° r Pl an fi it is much to be desired
that the deranged gentleman in Europe will
soon be put where he can’t do any harm.
In any case, the Warrnambool Co. may get
some consolation out of it all: for the before-
mentioned gentleman has convinced many
people of a thing which they wouldn’t
remember before—that every pound paid to
a foreigner for woollen and other goods is a
pound put in a potential enemy’s pocket to
buy a gun with.
* * * *
The Westralian Trustee, Executor
and Agency Co. (Perth 1
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves
£££ £ £
Oct., 1906.. 714 10 p.c. = 525 189 10 059
Apl., 1907.. 1197 15 „„ 787 410 10 469
Oct., 1907. . 1589 20 „ „ 1050 389 150 10,619
Apl., 1908.. 1275 10 „ „ 525 1000 10 369
isos.. 1107 io ;;;; 525 - 58 2 S
O?! 1 ” nono - ’ ” » 105 0 25 10,976
Oct., 1909. . 1557 10 ~ 525 1082 12 008
n P f M loin’* 1831 20 ” ” 1050 268 513 12*521
Oct., 1910.. 1616 20 „ „ 1050 66 500 13,021
Apl., 1911.. 1892 30 ~ 1575 317 13 338
Oct., 1911.. 1898 20 „ „ 1155 743 14’o81
Apl., 1912.. 1691 28 1628 - 63 14 144
Oct. 1912.. 1461 18J „ „ 1155 - 306 14,450
Apl., 1913.. 1888 26j „ „ 1680 219 _ 14,439
Oct., 1913.. 1757 „ „ 1150 607 15,046
Apl., 1914.. 1587 251 „,, 1650 —l4 983
Oct., 1914.. 881 10 „„ 700 181 15,164
There is nothing to explain the slump in pro-
fits. Apparently it just happened. Commis-
sion and other earnings fell off, and exes,
tell on. as exes, have a habit of doing: and
when these rats had thus nibbled at both
ends, what was left in the middle was only
about half the normal size. However, there
doesn’t seem to be any reason to be ’down-
hearted ; for as the value of estates in hand
hasn t diminished, the future should be all


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
2,4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS.
WALTER C. WATT
(Chairman).
Hon. HENRY MOSES,
M.L.C.
Hon. R. J. BLACK,
M.L.C.
T. H. KELLY.
HARRY S. LEVY.
Subscribed Capital
£1,000,000 0
Uncalled Capital 950,000 0
Reserves and
Undivided Profits 70,000 0
Perpetual Deposit
with Government 20,000 0
0
0
0
0
Trust Funds under Administration as
at 30th June, 1914.
£11,438,063 4 9
Absolute Security and Efficiency of Trust
Management Is assured by the Appoint-
ment of this Company to act as
TRUSTEE, EXECUTOR, ADMINISTRATOR,
ATTORNEY UNDER POWER, or AGENT, Etc.
reasonable charges.
Write or call for Booklet.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
R, COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Asst. Manager.
THE SINCEREST eulogy Zanetic ink paper re-
ceives is the constant effort to produce something as
good. Safety, satisfaction and economy ensured by
insisting on the original article, which produces per-
manent, dense pen-copies. Free samples if stamped
envelope sent to Zanetic Works, Leicester, England.*
We invite you to buy a box of “ De
Reszke” Cigarettes and compare them
with any brand you please. Their quality
will appeal to you.
Deßeszke
7Tjr'sri<tccf<itj Ot&rrffcs
PILES.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF.
LEMOLAC FOR PILES stops all irrita-
tion at once. Reduces Swelling.
Cures. NOT ONE FAILURE. Money
Back if not effective. 3/6 at all Chemists, or post free from
THE LEMOLAO 00., 178 Caetlereaffh Street, SYDNEY.
John Wanamaker, America’s master retailer, has
said- “Every business man and house will have to
go over a hard road and find out its turmnf for
him or itself, but this need not be if they 'vil take
the light of other men s experience. Vou can cut
out the hard road to best results in power trans-
mission by using, as thousands of Australia s bigges
plant owners do, “Pioneer” leather belting on all
your drives. Let our nearest othce prove Pioneer
superiority to you in your own plant “Pioneer is
made only by I. O. Ludowici & Son Ltd.. “Pioneer ’
Works, 117 York Street, Sydney (opp. Q. V.
Markets). Sold in Victoria by Geo. Russell Pty
Ltd Flinders Street, Melbourne; South Australia,
by J. McKell, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide;
Queensland: Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd., Bris-
bane- W. Australia: Horace Suihmers, Howard
Street, Perth: Broken Hill, Geo. C. Dempster,
Argent Street.* # #
C A Parsons & Co. Ltd., Newcastle-on-Tyne, are
now' making their geared turbines whereby the
Parsons’ Steam Turbine may be geared to a so -
running dynamo, pump, etc. Sets up to 4000 k.w.
are already running, and a large geared turbo pump-
in" set is shortly arriving for the Metropolitan Board
of” Water Supply and Sewerage, Sydney. High
efficiency is secured and the economy of the nigh-
speed turbine is still maintained. The Union
steamer Alaheno has recently been re-engined and fitted
with geared turbines, and numerous other boats are
now running. Sole agents. William Adams and Com-
pany Limited. Sydney, Melbourne. Brisbane and
Perth.* _ ,
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d„ making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. Sd. per
cub yard slacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total,' 7s. 3d., as against 4s. 10d.— a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow i6in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* 12
Extract from The Review, London, December 5,
1913 : —“The Colonial Mutual occupies a unique posi-
tion amongst offices doing business in Australia, inas-
much as it is the first office in that country to submit
its affairs (including securities) for an independent
Government inspection and valuation. The -'inspec-
tors appointed by the Government have recently re-
ported to Parliament that the Society is thoroughly
‘sound and solvent, and able to meet all its lia-
bilities both immediate and prospective.’ ”* [6
PIONEER WOOD PIPE cuts down expense in
every way. ■ Low in first cost, it also saves mechanics’
wages, as it can be easily and quickly laid by
unskilled labor. It has a life of unlimited length.
Catalogue from The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
contractors to all State Governments, 57 York Street,
Sydney (Head Office).* #
In time of war as in peace, the British Govern-
ment are large buyers of the “Hornsby” Oil Engine.
The Irish Lights Board and the Trinity House Cor-
poration, who are responsible for the lighting of the
British coast, have ordered a large number of these
engines, direct coupled to Air Compressors, for safe-
guarding the world’s shipping. For full-particulars
apply R. Hornsby & Sons Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne
and Brisbane.* [1
* * * *
J. Malcolm Newman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Street,
Sydney.* . .
* * * *
Have Yon an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
* * * *
In addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast Iron Pipes, Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Pro-
prietary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.*
* * * *
“Robey’s” latest steam combination —Self-Con-
tained Superheated Compound Engine and Boiler—
powers from 30 to 400 b.h.p. Not built to sell,
built to last. Represented by Arthur Leplastrier &
Co. Head Office, Sydney.*
* * * *
Aline managers, when requiring new Steam
Boileis, ‘are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.*
♦ ♦ * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to 11. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus; Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
•, f r Php total of the trusts on October 31
U ° -P1 «5Q S9O as against £1,650,841 six
months and seven reals before that the
monins t pkai 855 The progress has thus
SeSeS® interests
been exc the fact that the co.
fhcshv.toil's this trustee mat amt it isn't
to neglected if anr bm f
better comes along; (T) by net oi
assets which are pledged to nobody but the
co ’s clients, and then only to secure the pro-
per performance of trusts, and (o)
£B6 000 of uncalled capital. As just men- ■
tioned the capital and reserves are unencum-
bered and are mostly in gilt-edged securities,
so that shareholders’ risks are also small as
long as the management behaves itself.
Especially when the foregoing is taken into
account, the profit is excellent, as indeed it
is with most trustee cos. And, since then-
work must increase, their prospects are very
fine too. Of course they will have then
lean vears. Tliev live by commissions on
capital and rental values, so their income
shrinks in bad times; and their outgoings
mostly don’t. * * *
In preparation for the time when it will
be able to resume dividends, and partly in
order that the rate then paid may not appear
excessive, the Q. N. Bank will m February
next authorise the issue of another _()0,0(X)
£5 shares. * * *
Great Cobar applied for six months’ and
was granted three months’ suspension ot
labor on its Chesney and Cobar Gold Mine
leases. The case was commenced early in
November, but the local. management was
not then acquainted with the financial
position. Apparently the warden was
coolly expected to grant the application m
the dark. Subsequently E. Hogan Taylor,
superintendent and agent for the receiver,
tendered three letters labelled confidential
and stated that in his opinion the co. would
need to raise £60,000 before it could hope
for success. Pellew Ilarvey had assisted
in preparing that estimate. As about
£25,000 has been spent. since smelting
operations ceased, mostly in fixing matters
up underground, the scrip holders are not
likely to feel too joyful on learning that
£60,000 more is needed, especially when
they learn that the value of Chesney ore is
a fraction of ldwt. of gold and from 2 to
2$ p.c. of copper, and of Cobar Gold Mine s
ore 7dwt. gold and 14 p.c. copper, that it
takes three tons of Great Cobar ore to smelt
one ton of Cobar Gold Mine ore, and that
the four tons then treated show a. total
recovery of 255. worth of gold, exclusive ot
copper. For seven years and three months
to December 31, 1913, the revenue from
Chesney was £243,144, and the expenditure
£324,433, and for three years and seven
months to December 31, 1913, Cobar Gold
Mine returned £153,360 for an expenditure
of £160,022, or a total loss on the two
properties of £87,951. Assuming that the
cost of the Chesney plant is included in
these figures, it still means that these two
mines went to the bad to the tune of about
£20,000. The present danger is that the
debenture holders, in their natural anxiety
for their money, will gouge out the best ore
(this is called “selective mining”), and
forget all about their successors. A new
find, or a lengthy boom in copper, would, ot
course, considerably affect the position.
The properties of Cobar Copper, Ltd. (the
old Young Australian and Mount Pleasant)
are up for sale by tender. The Mines
Department has been a little too inquisitive
lately, so something had to be. done. The
co. has been one of the standing jokes of
the field. After the properties had been
passed on to an English co. the plant was
shifted from the Young Australian shaft to
the Mount Pleasant, and then the work
consisted of putting a drive in back towards
the Young Australian shaft. .Tacky Dow’s
trick of setting a man to dig a hole and fill
it up again on his Murrumbidgee station
was sane compared with it. Of course
funds cut out before much was done, and
one or two diamond drill holes were put in
apparently without result. A couple of
tribute parties have been working on the
Young Australian with varying results.
Possibly this property will see the light
again if it is fortunate enough to get into
capable hands.
A lot has been heard lately about the
decreased efficiency of mine labor. Well,
consider the recent history of the Cobar
field, and then say what you think about
the increased efficiency of mine management.
* * * *
Tf adjectives make a mine, Bangadang,
Adelong, is all right. Yet the “great amount
of strenuous work” boils down to 22|ft. of
driving south from the shaft, .68ft. in the
lower level and 92ft. in the adit. This is
apart from costeening and the crushing of
60 tons. Also there was the agony and
sweat required to combat “a great deal of
controversial matter in regard to the mines.”
“Immense possibilities ahead,” “vast amount
, of development,” and a “lot of valuable infor-
mation” are other Wagnerian crashes lead-
ing up in the directors’ report to this
diminuendo; “As our funds are exhausted it
becomes necessary to formulate a scheme for
obtaining further capital.” The first step on
the. way is to join up with one or two other
claims, and as general-manager Wesley is
enthusiastic, presumably the thing is as good
as done.
* * * *
Profit is at last shown by Adelong
Estates, the present-day pet of the Collins
House (Melb.) crowd. As No. 1 dredge
had got its machinery out of line, it has
been put on the stocks for reconstruction,
thus soaking up £SOO. Handling 1 63,620
cubic yards in the six months for a gold re-
turn of £27G7, No. 1 dredge’s costs (in-
cluding repairs) were £3305, or 4.848 d. per
cubic yard. With the ground giving only
4d. per cubic yard, this game was a dead
failure. No. 2 dredge saved the situation,
its half-year bringing in £7735 against
working costs £3450. the ground averaging
7.259 d. per cubic yard against costs 3.230(1.
Stoppages ate up 21 p.c. of the time
available for working. Summed up, the
past six months’ work showed a net profit
of £2OOl. The co. is comfortable, as against
£llOO of debts it can set liquid assets worth
£6002. All of the latter except £2034 is
cash. There are still £9OOO of debentures to
redeem ; but as No. 1 dredge will be through
the clay after the New Year, there seems an
odds-on chance of dividends in the near
future and the steady liquidation of the
debt.
* * * *
On its restricted mining and lead-milling
(the zinc plant is of course shut down) the
Zinc Corporation is able to maloe a small
profit. In November, taking lead at £l7
and silver at 2s. 2d., the earnings were
£10,498 and the total exes. £7325.
* * * *
Bodangora, near Wellington (N.S.W.),
has been put through a course of develop-
ment; but a lot of work has to be done to
bring the once-famous old Mitchell’s Creek
into the running again. In the last six
months 685 ft. of driving, sinking and other
mining work has been done, at a cost of
£3740, and as a result there are 300 ft. of
backs. Unfortunately the reef is often
small and runs into disturbed country on
the eastern side. The main shaft is down
976 ft., of which 334 ft. have been sunk
recently. The best find is a block between
No. 7 and No. 8 level, carrying 15in. of
stone worth 90s. per ton. 295 tons have
been raised. No. 8 west level is showing
a more-profitable reef than No. 7, and No. 7
is better than No. 6 west. Altogether, then,
though prospecting will mop up a lot of
cash, Bodangora looks like repaying its
backers if they can stick long enough.
* * * *
Williams-Fancy, Berringa (Vic.), shows
a profit of £5864 for the half-year, and that
is after paying £l7OO for shaft-sinking. This
was done on little better than 7dwt. stone.
Mine and mill costs (excluding the develop-
ment) ran to 14s. Id. per ton; all other.
Is. Bd.; development, 3s. Id. There is 12
months’ stone above the 800 ft. (No. 7)
level • and the big work of the past year has
been shaft-sinking to 1036 ft. and plat-cutting
at 920 ft. and 1020 ft. The stone left above
No. 7 is not as good as the average put
through last half-year, but there’s profit
in it. And there is £2OOO of a cash reserve
to stand on if the Nos. 8 and 9 levels don’t
strike the right stuff as soon as expected.
* * * *
The North Nuggetty, Daylesford (Vic.),
has something good in the flat make above No.
8 level. The local story is that the face is so
rich that a padlock has been put upon it.
Looking at Trevor’s half-yearly report it is
pretty clear that the new flat make came
just in time to save the situation; for there
is very little ore in sight above No. 7 level.
Something may yet be picked up in the east
crosscut towards the Ajax lode, but that is
doubtful. On the western lode at No. 8
there is only 40 feet of backs over a length
of 200 feet, so there can’t be much profit to
squeeze out of this block. A vein of payable
stone is being followed in a flat make over
the western crosscut at No. 8, but it is the
new shoot midway between the Ajax and
the western lodes that will provide plums
for the pudding during the current term.
Costs at the mine are about 21s. per ton,
and the grade of the ore of late has been
down to 28s. per ton, but the new stone
will fatten things up for a bit. The co.’s
record isn’t bad —capital (and water),
£10,356; gold. £135,405; dividends, £55,509.
Most of the dividends have found their way
into the pockets of the clever Ballarat
crowd.
* * * *
Frenchman Reef, Daylesford (Vic.),
arrived at its 54th call the other day with
no perceptible hope of being ever again a
payable proposition. The shares whereon
13s. 6d. have been cashed up are now buy-
able at fourpence, four years having passed
over the poor little mine’s poppet head since
the last dividend was squeezed out. _ The
Frenchman has produced only £5400 in all
for its long-suffering shareholders, so it is
time the struggle ended. The Hepburn
mineral water is beginning to run strong
again; but there is no knowing what will
happen if the mine in the vicinity pursues
its hopeless quest of the gold which is
thicker than mineral water, yet not half so
beneficial to the district.
* * * *
Chief resolution carried at the meeting
of Mount Oxide (Q.) shareholders called in
Sydney to receive the report of the liqui-
dators : —“This meeting hereby authorises
the liquidators of the co. to take such pro-
ceedings as they may. be advised by their
solicitors against the directors of the co. toi
the recovery of any sum for which they
apuear to be liable.” The voting was o
to 3. Senator Albert Gould of course de-
clared that “none of the directors, of whom
he was the chief, “recognised any responsi-
bility with regard to the £20,000 paid to
Earie Hermann” —borrowed by him on the
co.’s account. Well, it is quite time a cei-
tain class of Sydney directors were shown
that their responsibility and what they
recognise as their responsibility are two verj
different things. #
llampden-Cloncurry (Q.) reckons it can
produce blister copper at a working cost ot
£43, “the lowest in Australia. But the test
is the profit, which varies with (1) the
working cost, (21 the percentage of copper
in the blister, and (3) the value of the con-
tained precious metals. The importance o
the third point can be judged from the tact
that in Mount Morgan’s blister there is
rouglilv £5O worth of precious metal, while
Hampden’s has only 50s. worth.
Tyrconnell (N.Q.) has had a battery
clean up of 2070 x. from 200 tons. But nice
returns varying from 20dwt. to oOdwt. fail
to make the gamble lively. Perhaps that is
due to the pinch at the northern end of the
200 ft. level and the poor results from pros-
pecting at the 100 ft. Electric light has
been provided for surface works, which
suggests that the co. is going to keep the
10 head of stampers failing three shifts
when water is available. The 200 ft. in
one place shows a big laminated quartz_ree ,
from 10ft. to 12 ft. wide, but no sinking has
yet been done on this make. It is woitli
watching. # ,
Mount Cuthbert (Q.) intends offering the
second issue of debentures (£70,000) to
allottees of the first issue, lhis second lot
will also carry the right of conversion into
20s. shares for 12 months. Tenders aie to
be called for the erection of a smelting plant
early in 1915.
« * * *
Westralia paid £111.553 in gold dividends
this month, making the total for 1-l
£998,660. Of this amount Great BouMei dis
tributed £262,500, fvanhoe £130.000, Kal
o-urli £96.000. Edna May £68.428, Sons ot
f walij £48,750, Bullfinch Prop. 154.500,
Sand Oueen £35.250, Oroya Links £2B.i
Lake View and Star £32,000, Associated
£12.384, Mararoa £15.000, South Kalgui ill
£6250 Kyarra £6OOO and Black Range
£3625 The most notable absentees from
the “list are Golden Horseshoe, Boulder Per-
severance, Associated Northern and Gieat
Fingall The first-named should start paying
out ngain next year; the next two may dis-
tribute a little occasionally as time rolls on ;
but the chances of Fingall ever earning any
more money for shareholders are_ getting
slender. For all that. Fingall is distinctly
a case of “While there’s life there s hope.
Morning Star, at Magnet (W.A. ), has a
chance of being raised from
co. liquidated last June with habihties T-l 9
still unpaid and little or no cash. Tendeis
were called for the assets, principally plant,
gear and holes in the ground, but no offers
were received. Now managing-director Shall-
cross expresses his to take tie
show on tribute for two years with the light
of purchase for £2500 at any time during
that period. In all probability leita,
Adelaide and Melbourne, which hold the
shares, will agree. #
The* Kingston * (S.A.) Oil Wells Co. has
been formed by George D. MeudeH (Melb.)
to acquire leases and licenses of oil aieas
covering 20 square miles near Kingston.
New Ruby tin (Tas.) began . th \, la ® t
half-year in drought and ended it m blood,
and neither was good for profits. Still,
assuming that the black tin which has been
accumulating lately hasn t been ove -
valued, a profit of £375 was made. That
is no good, of course, to a co. with a capital
of just on £25,000; but, officially, better
things are expected. It doesn t take much
of a tin patch to pay tidy dividends; but
even throwing that in, New Ruby s prospects
are drab.
* * * *
Austral-Malay, the co. in whose interests
H E. Pratten had great luck m the Malay
Peninsula, has had a very quiet year. Beyond
the Kamunting (in which it held only a part
interest), the Kampong Kamunting and
Larut, which have been floated off, it nas
got hold of nothing better than a prospecting
chance. Two or three of these are in hand.
Between March and the end of Novembei
the Austral-Malay holders took their propor-
tion of shares in the floats: they got loi
each Malay share (there are 20.000 of them)
two Kampong shares, one Kamunting (L° n "
don) and half a Larut—all fully paid. There
remained then on hand shares and other
assets valued at £20,104. or £lO4 m excess
of the co.’s capital. The value of some of
the assets is, however, purely speculative.
* * * *
Kampong Kamunting, one of the Austral
Malay litter, expects that the pontoon tor
No. i dredge is afloat by this time. JNm 2
dredge is to be shipped early next year. The
accounts just published were balanced at
August 31, but a statement of Sydney-office
receipts and expenditure up to November
25 is added. At that date there was about
£3lOO to come in from calls, making the
whole issued £130.000 then fully paid. There
was £526 cash still in hand ; and apparently
some payments to be made on account of
the dredges and freight. Plainly the sooner
No. 1 can earn revenue the better.
A pretty little row is in progress in the
Manly Gas Co. (Sydney). This e°., which
somehow wasn’t mentioned in the schedule
to the Gas Act of 1912, lately had a manag-
ing director ; but he protested against some
payment or other, and as the other directors
insisted on the payment, he resigned. Since
then, he mentions in a circular to the share-
holders, the directors have put up the price
fid. per thousand—“a most injudicious and
inconsiderate course of action, ’ which has
ruptured the friendly relations hitherto ex-
isting between the municipal council and the
co., and incurred the displeasure of the Gov-
ernment. The council,” he goes on, "has the
power of resumption; and the Government,
doubtless as the result of this co.’s action, has
announced its intention of extending the Gas
Act to include all gas companies in schedule
1” which means that it proposes to regulate
the price of gas at Manly and elsewhere not
by the* Sydney, North Shore and New
castle cos. Of course, this should be done.
It is utterly absurd that on one side ot a
suburban street people should be paying
4s. sd. for gas, while on the other a co., i■ emu-
lated under the Act, is limited to os. JAM.


Charles
Heidsiecks
Vintage 1906
cm
NE PLUS ULTRA
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
TEN YEARS OLD.
WOMEN’S WEAK NERVES
Many women suffer from hyper-
sensitiveness of the nervous system,
induced by many causes. Excessive
nervousness is the bane o'f many lives,
and often a severe attack of nervous
breakdown follows on heavy, exacting
social or domestic duties. Where the
nerves are shattered by physical or
mental strain this is the medicine to
be relied on to quickly strengthen them.
CLEMENTS TONIC
Miss A. M. Cardwell, Coree, Booth
Street, Annandale, for many years head-
mistress in N.S.W. Public Schools, writes:
“When teaching in N.S.W. State
schools I often resorted to Clements
Tonic. It was such a restorative it
never failed me. No household should
be without it.
(Signed) A. M. CARDWELL.”
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
Otard Brandy
15 YEARS OLD
IS A TRUE COGNAC BRANDY.
Otard Brandy is the pure distillation of the grape,
matured for years in “the famous historic Chateau de
Cognac, where Francois 1., King of France, was born.
This Chateau now forms the cellars and premises of
the MAISON OTARD-DUPUY. For sickness or
health, as a liqueur or as a beverage, there is no spirit
to equal.
OTARD (15 Year) BRANDY
of fV*r&
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, December 19, 1914.
My Dear Arini, —
Didn’t the Aurora, laden down almost to
the hand-railing round the deck, slip out of
port quietly? In these days of thrills, when
even the Yarmouth bloater is likely to be
bombarded by the enemy, the South Pole
seems a very dull place to go to.
A Queensland member named Sinclair
has asked Senator Pearce not to abolish the
Australian kilties’ beloved rag and put mere
trousers in its place. But the trouble about
the rag is that it glares too much. Soldiers
seek to be inconspicuous. A rainbow skirt
and a couple of white bare knees below it
are three good targets for the enemy ; con-
sequently Highland regiments are always
shot in the legs, and are lame for the rest
of their lives. In the days when Tommy
Atkins wore peacock colors a Boer scoffer
said that the British soldier was a man
who dressed himself in red, gave three cheers,
and then crawled unseen upon the enemy.
The Encounter has had still another
engagement. (You should have seen the
censor jump when he read that.) The girl
is one of the Bathurst Dulhunty clan, and
the happy man is Surgeon Burrows.
The popular xielgian Consul, Mr. Wat-
teeuw, has just returned to town after a
brief holiday at Kosciusko. The dapper
little gentleman took his wife up to the
mountain resort to set her firmly on her
high-heeled shoes after her recent illness.
Lieutenant Sturdee, of the Australian Per-
manent Forces, was one of the few young
soldiers in the Reg’lars who were allowed to
go to the innumerable battle-front. He is in
the engineers, and therefore escaped the dull
but useful grind of the permanent gunner
who is chained up to coast defence. Mr.
Sturdee, who is a Victorian, is a nephew of
Admiral Sturdee, who made such a splash
near the Falkland Isles. The Admiral's wife
was a Victorian too.
The air is thick with breaking-up parties,
and fond parents say “hear, hear” to the
mostly stodgy encomiums pronounced on the
Young Person. Miss Badham’s damsels at
the C. of E. Grammar School broke up in
the odor of much learning, and the Sydney
Grammar School boy is also free to get into
mischief for some weeks to come. Governor
Strickland has been rushing up and down
between Sydney and Moss Vale to assist in
these breaking-up orations. Handing over
the Grammar School prizes his Ex. told
them he was sorry for the boy who took a
reward for his knowledge of geographv. The
map is going to be re-colored after the war,
and the lad who looks for Turkey in
Europe may have to buy a microscope to
find it. The sub-regal speech didn’t go into
these details, but that’s what it meant.
The United Charities’ pirates over-ran
the city on Saturday, with what result I
can’t tell you—bless the holidays ! Sixty-
one charities, which are lean and hungry
in consequence of the great patriotic tug at
the plain citizen’s trouser-pockets, are yawn-
ing for immediate help.
Beaumont’s Smith’s long-threatened pro-
duction of “Seven Little Australians” in
dramatic form begins at the Palace Theatre
on December 26. This play ought to enable
the youngster to munch chocolates in a
silent ecstasy of joy any fine afternoon in
the Christmas holidays. “Seven Little Aus-
tralians” was the book that made Ethel
Turner a household word, and it’s possibly
the best yarn she has written for the kinder-
garten.
Samoa has had its first military wedding
—a Miss Nation has been married to Cap-
tain Tottenham, of the Maoriland Force at
present holding the lovely island. Colonel
Logan, commanding the force, gave the bride
away, and the ring was made from a sove-
reign by the M.L. engineers.
Mrs. Boult’s drama, “Maron the Ethio-
pian,” was produced in the Theatre Royal,
lent by the J.C.W. firm, the other evening.
Funds collected by sale of goods and seats
go to the Patriotic cause. To give the
youngsters Tommy left behind him a treat
at Christmas, Maron, a colored stage hero
of imposing presence (played by elocutionist
Thomas), made frenzied love to lan the
(Queenie Boult) for about two hours.
The play itself is full of possibilities. It
wants, to begin with, a stony-hearted stage
manager, armed with a yard of blue pencil.
By striking out the first act, and chopping
down the interminable dialogue in the rest
of the performance, “Maron” could be con-
verted into a first-rate romantic drama.
Properly handled by a professional company,
there ought to be money in it. As it is-
let me see, what did happen to the stage
moon the other night? It waltzed all over
the back premises of the Theatre Royal,
and went out suddenly, just as the heroine
in muffled tones remarked: “How beautiful
is the moon!” I suppose it was a union
moon, and was waiting for the Arbitration
Board to sit on its grievances.
Anacreon the Poet (V. Garton) had the
frequent poetic aversion to soft drinks. It
was a sultry, thirsty night, and Anacreon’s
libations and offerings to Bacchus evoked
rounds of applause from a parched audience.
If some of the damsels who sold sweets to
their long-suffering sex had hawked ices, or
something cool and wet, they would have
made a pot of money for the Cause. Mrs.
W. Macdonald and a son and daughter-in-
law were in the audience, and French Con-
sul Chayet gave his presence as well as his
patronage. Mrs. Shaw, the Strathfield
dame, and a fair-haired daughter, helped the
lady, brigands present to raid the poor old
public. Mrs. Greig Smith handed over a
basket of flowers for the inevitable auction.
It was knocked down for about fifty-five,
shillings. But the patriotic auction sale
needs to retire into curl papers for a few
weeks. The public purse is not a bottom-
less pit of coin. Miss Jan Csaykowska, in
the beautiful peasant garb of Poland (the
country which committed suicide by abolish-
ing taxes and deciding to depend on volun-
tary contributions, wherefore the army and
the law courts closed up for lack of susten-
ance, and the king depended on borrowings
for his daily bread), flourished the Polish flag.
Meanwhile a Russian ballet (under the direc-
tion of E. Platt-Ruskin) kicked up its heels
round the large white fowl, or eagle, that
Jan had painted on yards of red satin
bunting.
The Royal Hospital for Women (Pad-
dington) will get its annual lullaby on
Christmas Eve. The perambulating con-
cert party, organised by Mrs. Neville May-
man, includes pianiste Gertrude Palmer;
Bryce Carter and his ’cello ; Charles Boult,
fiddler; baritone Appleby, and Mrs. George
Earp.
As the N.S.W. teachers hold their annual
corroboree before this greets you, it may be
suggested here that the Bush school-teacher
ought to have a chance to unload his woes
into the public ear. He has, of course, to
keep his weather eye open for departmental
storms if he tells too much, but once a year
the man from the Backblocks should be
allowed to unlock his bosom without fear
of the rod of authority.
Even the Riviera must be tingling with
the distant buzz of firearms, but Justice Hig-
gins (Vic.) and his wife are reported to be
holidaying in that expensive locality.
Christmas week surges with Phil, and
other concerts. The Western Suburbs Phil.
Society, with Conductor John Mansfield in
charge, attacked Handel’s “Messiah” on
December 19 in the Town Hall. The Syd-
ney Phil, produces the same oratorio, with
sweet singer Mary Conly in the soprano
role, on Christmas night.
Mr. McCall McGowan—a name not to be
trifled with when spread out in printer’s ink
—is going to Kosciusko for Christmas. Fish-
ing is the great adventure to which the mana-
ger of the Maoriland land co. means to direct
his energies. Mrs. McGowan will swish a
rod over the same stream.
Mr. Critchley Parker, the Mining Stan-
dard man, is a mighty whaler who goes
into the Isaak Walton game with strict
attention to business. As usual, he will
whip the Thredbo River for trout this summer.
The Parkers go into camp and do the thing
thoroughly. They catch their own break-
fast and fling it in the pan before old Kosci-
usko has taken its head off the pillow of
the morning mists, and detached its bell-
topper from the nail that is driven into the
sunrise.
The übiquitous Percy Hunter is again on
the bounding main, with his bagvage marked
“Sydney.” He dashed over to France for a
while, and is reported to have flurried the
enemy bv his breathless energy. Anyhow,
the enemy ought to have curled up when
the long, thin streak of Australian activity
raced round the scenery with a motor-ambu-
lance or something.
Fashion for women is settling down
quietly to three-decker skirts and flounces.
Nodding in a midsummer siesta, the weird
tyrant known as the Vogue allows the übi-
quitous blouse-and-skirt its usual holiday
innings. The blouse takes a strong-minded,
able-bodied woman, with lots of time on her
hands, to manage it properly. As an article
of feminine clothing the thing has no verte-
brae. It is a spineless illusion. Note its
admirable poise when you gum your inquir-
ing nose to a fashionable shop window! It
sits up taut and trim, no windbags under
the arms, no sagging at the waist. It fits
the wire figure like French wallpaper.
Still, though it flops around the woman who
is too busy to chain it on to her person with
invisible grappling hooks, the blouse is an
imperishable luxury in vapor-bath weather.
Young Cox, who died in Egypt of pneu-
monia (a strange complaint to get in rain-
less Egypt, where the Sphinx hasn’t had
a drink for 40 centuries), belonged to a Woy
Woy family, and his people are broken up
at the loss "of a fine, soldierly sample of Aus-
tralian manhood. In his recent letters home
the N.S.W. boy said he was in good health.
In a roundabout way, this fatal outbreak
of pneumonia in parched Egypt reminds me
of what a vVest o’ Darling man once told me
about duck-raising. He tried it in that
almost equally droughty district, but gave it
up because the ducklings invariably got a
fatal attack of cramps when rain fell on the
astonished water-birds.
Artist Florence Rodway has gone home to
Tasmania. The usual summer holiday under
the parental roof beguiles the clever girl
from her studio. A portrait of Mrs. Willie
Anderson is her latest brush work.
In February Gilbert Neill, the busy
young man in charge of the N.S.W. Govern-
ment Tourist Office headquarters, is going
to take a few weeks’ holiday. Miss Mary
Turtle, a tall, good-looking Manly girl who
lives on the heights whence “the Cardinal’s”
palace looks down coldly on the surfers, will
change her name specially to keep him from
being lonesome.
Guy Scholefield, the Maoriland journalist
who has been sending copy to Dominion
papers from London, is to follow the troops
to the enraged argument in France and
Flanders. Possibly his departure won’t be
just yet. The date is hidden in the bosom
of the Department, and though I might get
inside pews from the lady who runs
the hotel where one warrior’s brother is
staying, and there is a certain night-watch-
man on a wharf who knows where the army
is going, I scorn to make use of surreptitious
sources of information.
Two sons of artist John Longstaff have
joined Kitchener’s new army. Kitchener is
always raising a new army.
Two N.S.W. Nightingales, Blanche Sut-
cliffe and Clare Fairland, who used to be on
the Sydney Hospital staff, had the luck to
dodge the amateur duchess-run hospitals at
the front. They left England under the
official wing of the British Red Cross
Society, and ought to be working at a really
reliable mending shop.
One of the queerest shows that capered off
to Flanders was chiefly “manned” by British
lady farmers. They were greatly lauded by
a London paper for having sacrificed their
hair, thus requiring no hairpins to distract
their attention from the business in hand.
(When a hairpin falls into the middle of an
operation it may produce bad results.) An
Australian nurse who was with this weird,
well-meaning medley, coldly remarks: “One
or two of the lady farmers had such scanty
locks to begin with that they had them shorn
off. The war seemed a good opportunity
to try and grow a fresh crop. The others,
who always went about their farms in men’s
attire, were habitually close-cropped. These
worthy women, topped-booted and spurred,
rode furiously here and there. Their objec-
tive was to make more or less successful
dashes for wounded Tommies.. . .They were
not so trying as the lady nurses (?) who
took a few hours off duty every day, and
coolly sauntered out to have a look at the
fringe of battle.”
Mary Gaunt had the anguish of looking on
at the destruction of her photos, when she
was too hurriedly diagnosed as a German
spy on the journey up the River Amur. The
wandering Australian writer tells of the con-
sideration shown to her in Russia because
she was an Englishwoman. What’s the
matter with this Victorian lady’s memory
that she didn’t give her native land a boost
when she had the chance?
Minister for Justice Hall is going to put
his horsehair curls in mothballs and have a
scamper round Maoriland for a month.
Judge Hamilton left Sydney on December
20 for a six-weeks’ holiday in the Dominion
of Joseph Ward and Massey, via Melbourne
and the Bluff.
The Surf Girl this year is more fanciful
than of yore. If she is out for inspection
she is carefully sashed at the waist, and
shows the shape of her ankles in silk hose
and flat-soled sea-shoes. Manly mermaids
of the dressy type are so good to look at
that it seems a minor sacrifice that they
should wet more than the tips of their toes in
the large, uncouth breaker.
The sewing circle in the Town Hall has
retired for a short holiday after about four
months’ steady toil on behalf of the Red
Cross organisation. A fearsome list of gar-
ments has been added to the military and
ambulance kit since Mrs. Mayoress Richards
first took charge of the brigade, which knits
with ferocious energy in trains, trams, con-
cert halls and theatres. Anyhow, the circle
is going to mop its foreheads and try mixed
bathinsr for a little relaxation. Mrs. Langer
Owen, one of the forerunners of the move-
ment, deserves quite five bars rest.
Roy Hordern, who goes to the usual tryst
with the Sixth Light Horse Regiment, was
one of the most popular junior officers in
the N.S.W. training camp. He is a cheery,
sturdy specimen of Tommy Kangaroo, and
he hopes to come back to the girl he left
behind him at Hornsby, with a record of
brisk service. The girl is Miss Roberts, a
daughter of a partner in the jewellery firm
of Fairfax and Roberts. Young Hordern,
whose male parent is A. J., of the Pitt-
street shop, was handed various farewell
trophies by the employees the other after-
noon.
In the Theatre Royal on December 25,
J. E. Brownlow is to run a promising enter-
tainment. Flautist John Lemmone, with
Malcolm McEachern, the Austral String
Quartet, Fiddler Cyril Monk, and other
artists are billed for this affair. Harold
Whittle will be the pianist,
Mr. Broatch, who used to be in charge
of Quambone station, looks after the agri-
cultural portion of Yaneo irrigation area.
The family, which includes Mrs. Broatch
and an elegant slip of a daughter, lives in
the kind of house the good American hopes
to attain when he dies. It has a wide piazza
in front (“verandah” is too suburban) and
lofty rooms with the big living-room idea
carried out to perfection. Round one side
of this nest runs the staircase shut off by a
cunning little gallery railing, that looks
like oak. Possibly it is only a good imita-
tion. Another curiosity is the fireplace. The
modern fireplace, which is filled with a
nasty little grate, is' generally as ugly as an
architect can make it. The Government
architect whs designed this one deserves
three cheers for building a large, genuine
family fireplace with brass dogs—not hounds.
The Riverina climate only encourages log-
burning for two or three months in the year.
Still, anyone who finds the light, dry air in
the Yanco area conducive to a tired feeling
ought to try the steamy coastal climate for
his sins of ingratitude to the gods.
Once more the poor old hat! A meeting
of the French-Australian League of Help is
scheduled for December 22 in the Hotel
Australia.
While the cables lightly turn to the rush
of untrained women of the British Beerage
getting in the way of the mere working
nurse at the Front, this suggestion is re-
spectfully offered to the authorities. If
the Peeress of Kidderminster and the Bread-
giver of Bilston are determined to remain in
the Red Cross spot-light, why not grade them
as they would be graded in an ordinary city
hospital? Give them the probationer’s tough
billet of washing floors, polishing brass taps
and cleaning up generally. In case there
may be a shortage of brasswork, they could
have supplies sent from England. No back
answers would be tolerated, of course. A
Marchesa with saucepan smuts on her noble
nose, while vigorously scouring the kitchen
ironmongery, would be using her surplus
energy without endangering the lives -of the
wounded. The ideal Viscountess or Princi-
pessa or Lady Smith should go to the front
under the pen-name of Ellen Brown, and not
even let it be known that she was conde-
scending to humble and useful service.
Margaret Heinbockel, the Australian
writer who dabbles seriously in play-
writing on the other side, was married
a while ago to one Norman Raphael. The
man with the mixed name has acquired a
commission in a British regiment, and is
going to belabor the ill-mannered Kaiser till
that person wishes he had never been born.
Out of the mouth of a Canadian authority
comes the thrilling suggestion that, in 1915,
beautiful young men shall try to beat the
sunset in the matter of colors. Next year,
it is threatened, the dude will clothe himself
in tartan check suits and pencil-line garments
de luxe. Red, violet, pink, blue and green
stripes will run up and down his genteel
form and dazzle the eyes of mere woman.
Spats of a delicate mauve will add to his
attractions. So, if men are fewer than
they were before the carnage, the “nut”
will be more variegated than fashion has
allowed since the days when Beaconsfield
wore green velvet pants and an oiled curl
hanging down the middle of his forehead.
Talking of nuts, the callow youth who
plasters his hair back from his forehead may
be interested to know that this style is now
known as the “nut-game,” to distinguish it
from the short-crop or military fashion.
Lucille Benstead, the good-looking and
brainy Australian girl whose voice has been
uplifted with much success in England, has
not carried out her original craving to study
for grand opera. The cause is said to
be a steady stream of gilt-edged engagements
in British music halls. Lucille is always
mentioned as having been the first white
baby to open her eyes to this beautiful world
at Alice Springs, in Central Australia. The
nearest doctor was about 400 miles away,
but a black gin was in attendance, and
mother and child did well. A brother, Geof-
frey, is following his sister’s example, and
is singing music-hall ditties in a big baritone
voice.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


‘CMUNDER”
TAKES A TRIP HOME. At the War.
o un t
ii
MKh
W&n,
til
i ■%
O
S KtJ
> .Sr
M
vw
m.
\
\\\ \\
\\ y x •
\\
\\\
\
CrC
/■V4-
m
%■?«
‘C 1
r -
4£
J A /^!pli
Ui’<
?S§Sd
6@gKg
'WX
II
V
I
»S
•vrf*
'sk*=
5^
©jaw
wife
V. N<yy,'
f*Sf®
§SSS <- .
vsn
&*
P
ii
'4O
i©:
■€£
rfrosH
s
£ss
if#
1-4W 1
&8S
r*yj r U
mv
®te
life
:m:
"y ;■}■■'<
•W
li
3f£<
ii
/Aa
Vm
%
■—
jl mW'
w;y
tm&y£
h fm&
y/m
iym
ym
■ v ‘fe
jfc.
I
MM
.
HI
/!
yyy':, , 1 a
'.?s/•■'#'-■' Ay\
mm
wx
m
-~N,,_
i^s
UU
X
\
*o2*
f
“v*
'V
V
/. -v
r/
■;«v
.Zg#
jSi3
//
/n
/**> • 3fe
,y*i
-,*A
yw«s;
S?^
'jjrfS* 5 '
"^ u '-
* ',*.-*’ ’ .v^*'' J < I .v.‘** 4^r • • /i '*
A<*-^
V" —\— 'V
7
p#w?
■r~y
-"'V
7f-
v^~
‘■m&.
r
.^'7
yA>y
y^l
iMtfV
!{*«*«!*,
.. ' -y*~i' 'y~\'ryy-‘ r ~y~^‘ -
XX : l y2i&g’s*iy&iz&Bp* .. ,(A;.:X
c r^
yr»" • —^W»«; s
JtfKitZlx,
a
*s®>v
V. 7
X).
;38 x
/<:
°-x
,-y'
ja»
e ifi.- ,VjgS—
i&y'yeiP o
X
V
-/-
Z-
""x
11 u..^
li ‘ i^
/J
c-v-?.^
■y M
Cobra,” Boot Polish.
** —— wn iMTuimr
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Loves the quick
March music too.
Watch him as
He whirls his staff
All the merry
Soldiers laugh,
As they pass
In grand array,
Singing “it’s
o o
A Long, Long Way.”
Of their brave hearts,
“COBRA”-bright,
Tipperary’s
Proud to-night!


Genuine American
PANAMAS
SRB.
Farmer’s Panamas are imported direct from South
America. They are beautifully plaited and
thoroughly bleached; and are handsome, light and
cool. There is Summer comfort, splendid service
and sterling value in every hat.
Special value is offered in a line of genuine
Panamas, fitted with black silk Bands 2in. wide, and
real Russia' Calf, grease-proof leathers. In various
width brims, viz.: 2-J, 2\, 2f, 3, 3 J inches wide.
Price, 25/= each.
When ordering please quote No. SRB.
We Pay the Carriage.
FARMER’S, Sydney
Pitt, Market and George Streets.
o
ft
TO HELP THE BLIND
Various systems are resorted to in different parts of the world to raise money for
benevolent institutions, and one of the most novel is one that is used in Denmark
with highly satisfactoi’y results to the societies which care for the blind.
' ■ " :
;
n:
Or
Q
O
Z
K
<C
A
5“
vK
' >
6~
m
m
ffis.
ml
i
11 i
"ww* 1 r*i»' "
When a child is born in Denmark, the authorities send a “lucky penny” to the
parents, who are at the same time invited to subscribe towards the funds of the
institutions according to their means. On one side of, the coin, as shown in the
illustration, appears the head of the Queen of Denmark, and on the other the word
“Lykke,” which is not, as some suppose, a German name, but is the Danish word for
“luck.”
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, December 21, 1914.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Maggie Stirling took part in a students’
concert last week. She sailed on to the
platform like some vast Dreadnought, with
her cruisers in tow (if, indeed, Dreadnoughts
do tow cruisers) and the effect was superb.
She wore embroidered pink roses as big as
cabbages, veiled in black ninon. Outside
this costume were festoons of gold roses.
She sang Scotch songs—all about plaidies
and phillabegs and dirrks—-till the place felt
like a Hieland gathering. Her daughter
Mary was there, clad in a rose wreath and
much tulle; also the latter’s fiance, wearing
ordinary trousers, a clean shirt and a collar
of the 1914 model. The girl-students were,
in every case dressed to kill. One of them,
in grey and silver, with a rose-pink sash,
was enough to drive a schoolboy, or for that
matter, a. schoolboy’s grandfather, dippy.
Their singing, on the other hand, was only so-
so. Still there they were, covered with young-
blushes, dimples and curls, and delighted
to see their names in large gold letters on
white programmes, and smothered in flowers
sent them by youthful admirers. So all was
happiness. In the stress of literary effort I
have forgotten just where this concert was;
but what of that?
Melba is going to sing for the Cause at
Macedon. She is staying with the Stanleys
at the State’s hardwood cottage that used
to belong to King David Syme. Meanwhile
ardent aides are ransacking Melbourne for
Belgian flags. Melba has worked herself up
to such a pitch of patriotism that she simply
can’t sing without flags.
The Austral Salon is hemming handker-
chiefs for the troops. Socks are out of
fashion; and as to Balaclava helmets—why,
they are simply dowdy , my dear. Mosquito
nets are said to be coming in presently, A
really useful, all-round-the-year vogue
would be boot-making, but I doubt if Sas-
siety will take to it readily.
The Green Ball balcony seats were worth
£lOO to the Red Cross Fund. Mrs. Green,
who ran the leap, is a professional manu-
facturer of toe-dancers (d la Genee), and
every year her pupils, from three to 30,
transpire at the Town Hall, and with iron
solemnity disclose what she has done for
them.
Eileen Robb is engaged to Charles
Hamilton, son of one of the innumerable
Hamilton doctors of Adelaide. And so
Toorak loses one of its most persistent
sweet-and - programme - sellers-in-the-name-of
Charity.
Carlyle Smythe and his wife are at the
George Hotel, St. Kilda, waiting for a
chance to get to England. Every vessel
they have booked on so far has been seized
as a transport.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
Rex Thomas, of the Adelaide Register, was
thrown on his head last week through the breaking
of the steering-gear of a motor-car, and died without
recovering consciousness. He was one of the Kyffin
Thomas family, and joined the proprietary on the
recent death of Robert, his father. Personally, at
34, he had worked his way up to be chief-of-staff.
In his leisure time he was given to coursing and
bowls, and was everybody’s friend. His brother
Geoffrey and his uncle Evan are now the only
representatives of the Thomas family on the
Register, and they are both on the commercial
side.
This year’s Adelaide University exams, produced
a unique candidate in Mrs. Siemer, a dame of 64,
with eight children. She realised when about 60
that her English was not up to the standard of that
of her descendants ; so she tackled it from the rudi-
ments up, and as a practical proof of success has
now passed the senior exam, at her first attempt.
It is not often that a school kid can sit for an
examination in competition with his own grand-
mother.
School speech-days, inter-collegiate cricket and
entertainments for the Belgian Relief Fund have per-
sisted all the week. On Saturday at Mr. J. C. Mar-
shall’s Burnside house there was an exhibition of
dressed dollst Libels were freely presented on
friendly royalties; the military leadei-s of the
Allies, Commonwealth and State Governors, Napoleon,
Nelson, Josephine, Melba and others. Miss d’Erlanger
declared the show open, and the Melba doll was
bought by Lady Galway and sent to the original.
So one more friendship is shattered, I suppose.
The dog and cat show at the Exhibition went
with the usual vim. There were 900 entries, and
you could hear it for miles.
Which recalls to me that in the evening there
was a concert at the Town Hall, for which Dr.
Harold Davies and Mr. William Silver were mainly
responsible. The Galways came down from Marble
Hill for it.
The College cricket match resulted in a six-wickets’
win for Prince Alfreds and the usual outburst among
the boys. The police got on to one youth and made
as though to charge him with insulting conduct or
vagraney or something, whereupon his companions
attempted a “rescue.” This annual fight is one of
our few scholastic “institutions,” and it will be a
pity if an interfering body of police eradicate it.
Muriel Matters, our suffragette elocutionist, has
married one Dr. Porter, of London. You remember
Muriel—the girl who got herself chained up in
Parliament House. When here last she was under
Beaumont Smith's management.
Nurse Bii-t, a member of the A.T.N.A., who was
in Germany when the war broke out, is now sister-
in-charge of the Red Cross hospital at Ferror House,
in Huntingdon (Eng.). She was through the Boer
war, and was sent to St. Helena with the Cronje
prisoners, after which she went to England in
charge of British wounded.
Aubrey Dennistoun Hoad, who has been
actor and soldier in about equal quantities,
is one of the numerous annoyances that the
Kaiser is encountering in France. Aubrey,
a son, of course, of our old general, is
apparently attached to the staff of the
British commander-in-chief. After the
retreat front Mons he was ordered to Eng-
land with an official document. On his
return, so a yarn goes, the young man met
King Albert of Belgium, who was maintain-
ing a threatening attitude on a village road.
Albert was shockingly encumbered with mud
and worry, but he brightened up on learning
the identity of his Visitor, and cheerfully
called out “How’s French?” “Oh, storming
as usual, your Majesty,” Hoad replied ; and,
negligently flicking off about 51b. of pro-
jectile that had alighted on his coat sleeve,
he saluted reverently and withdrew. Just
before the war Iload warned Australia to
be prepared for his appearance in a reper-
toire including Shaw’s “Pygmalion.” Some
argument about “rights” shattered the
warrior’s plans, so he went back to England.
Artists Fox, Harcourt and Meldrum are
to be the judges this year for the Travelling
Scholarship awarded to National Gallery
Students. All three have themselves been
successful apprentices at this school in past
years. Harcourt hasn’t shown his work
yet in Sydney'. His intended exhibition
there was postponed because of the war.
But we know his virile work here in
Melbourne.
The Austral Salon secretary and treasurer
are beginning to find that the popularity
of the place is making the book-keeping
more than a joke for sedate matrons with
homes of their own to control and numerous
social and domestic duties to perform. They
have threatened once or twice to “strike,”
but popular opinion has, so far, been too
much for them. I heard one Important
Salomte exclaim, “Why should Mrs. So-and-
so wish to give up the Salon? Has she taken
to Bridge? It sounded horrifying—like
Derrink.
The Salon, besides its own numerous side-
issues, rents quarters to the Shakspearian
Society, the University Society, the Wim-
men’s National Council and various minor
Wimmens’. political societies. There are also
the Blue TBirds to book up for their monthly
spree at so much a quarter, and amateur
dramatic clubs, and such like, which have
events during the year. And now a Bowls
Club has come in as a regular tenant and
the effect is electric. You know yourself
what strenuous young devils Bowls players
are., Small wonder that the Salon is on
the verge of a Revolution.
Pretty Irma Caron, the theatrical daughter
of the late Leon Caron, has written a book
called “Under the Kaiser’s Thumb.” It has
a good catch-shilling cover designed by
George Dancey, and talks of German people
and things as they appeared to Irma’s
French-Australian eyes. There are chapters
on board and bed, music and entertainment,
Bismarck, the German home and fashions
and frocking. One of them treats of the
German Christmas and New Year, but it
forgets to mention that the Tree and most
of the Christmas feasting was made in the
first place in Kaiserland.
From my friend Arabella, now in London :
The Government has resumed the block of flats in
which George Lambert had his studio, and is turn-
ing the place into a barracks. It is a stone’s-
throw from the South Kensington Miiseum, and
with an outlook on one of those herbaceous old
plague-pits which have been London’s pride for cen-
turies. You know George Lambert, needless to say,
and the violet-like modesty which is part of him.
In addition to being a great artist, he is a finer
boxer than Jack Johnson, a speedier runner than
Donaldson, and as an orator comparable only to
Evacustes Hunt, the Cicero of Kumphers (Pa.),
IT.S.A. Yet you never hear him utter a word in
ordinary circumstances —though they do say that
his language, when he learned of the Government’s
intentions in regard to his studio, was somewhat
heated. It was a fine studio.
One result of the deplorable dearth of potential
husbands is that all the girls are going off to the
war. If the mountain of matrimony retreats from
Mahomette, there is only one thing for the forlorn
girl to do, and that is to chase it. But there are
some horrible shocks in this line of business. A
friend of mine got together some perfectly-divine
nurses’ uniforms and things recently, and started off
hopefully to Flanders. Her idea evas to be a
ministering angel at the bedside of some romantic
young fellow with not less than £5OOO a year—
preferably a Guardsman. Picture her annoyance
when she found herself allotted to half a dozen pri-
vates in one of the Welsh infantry regiments, all
suffering from ridiculous complaints like sore feet
and colds. Hers is not the only case of the sort,
and she ascribes it to the fact that Lord Kitchener
is an unsympathetic bachelor. It seems that the
inexperienced nurse, no matter how pretty or smart,
is allotted to the lighter cases, regardless of the
latters’ financial position. A wounded millionaire
is as likely to have a hard-faced expert of 50
attending him as an attractive maiden of his own
milieu. Such are the chances of war on its matri-
monial side.
Mr. Horace Friend, of the big Sydney ironmongery,
told me last week that he was considering the advisa-
bility of volunteering-. He was very resolute about
the matter. It seemed as though some of his
firm’s best imported steel had entered into his soul
and hardened it against the Germans.
To turn from the sublime to the ridiculous, from
the patriotic to the paltry, I have just come from
a meeting held by the preposterous Jim Larkin.
James is the Dublin irreconcilable who secured a
small consignment of limelight some time ago in
connection with the Hibernian strike industry, and
has been thirsting for more ever since. As there
is none available for his sort in the United King-
dom just now, he is off to the U.S. to see what he
can pick up there. I gather that his scheme is to
curse Britain, and point out that in wiping out
Belgium the Kaiser was acting in the best interests
of humanity and the working classes. A legal friend
informs me that if he does this, and afterwards
returns to his native land, he will be liable to be
hanged for treason, British subjects being forbidden
to assail the realm either in or outside of it in
time of war. In the interests of good grammar
and a quiet life I sincerely trust James may be
suspended indefinitely.
Young- Parry-Oakden, from Bananaland,
has something to do with the ammunition in
one of the camps. I fancy his mission is to
keep the powder dry. Anyhow, it is one of
great importance. He has brought a stock-
whip and a trick, red collie dog from the
Back of Beyond. With the whip he is accus-
tomed to clip a piece of paper from the tip
of the collie’s tail. The dog rather likes it;
anyhow, it hasn’t lodged any official com-
plaints so far. This young warrior also
throws a boomerang like a black, and has
been giving exhibitions to the camp followers
—if that is the right phrase to apply to the
nobility who come to see the soldiers. Dog,
whip and boomerang are all off to the wars,
so if the worst befalls, and the whole disturb-
ance is over before our lads arrive there, he
will be able to get a lucrative job in the
vaudeville business.
Howard Berry, president of the Royal
Society of Saint George, and his wife gave
a reception on Friday. There was no sign of
the Dragon except on an enamelled badge
worn by the president. A little man carried
a large weapon or insignia muffled up in red
felt that may have been the spear. This
was laid reverently on the platform at the
feet of the musical performers. In the
centre of the party stood a table covered with
the Union Jack and holding some gilded
glassware. The latter was alleged to be
the same from which Nelson quaffed his rum,
or whatever it was. on board the St. George
at Yarmouth in 1801. The goblets were
presented to the society by Mr. Charles E.
Bolingbroke, of Mordialloc. Bolingbroke in-
herited them from his great-grandfather, the
Rev. W. Priestly, who had them from Nelson
himself. I will cast no doubt upon the story
since the glasses are to be raffled for the
good of the Patriotic Fund. And, in any
event, I know nothing about Nelson’s history
except that he was an Admiral who would
be thoroughly barred by the Right-thinking
section in the present century.
Mr. Bolingbroke will also sell, in the
same Cause, an authentic letter written by
Nelson to his (B.’s) great-grandfather.
What is so “cute” about the letter is that
it has “Yarmouth” stamped on the envelope
in enormous printed letters. That should be
of value to demented collectors. The whole
yellow, dingy piece of paper is framed. I
note, by the way. that Nelson wrote a pleasant
clear fist that would have endeared him to
an editor.
These things, however, were mere items
of an entertainment in which warlike songs
and gory recitations were pitched recklessly
at the Very Best like blue metal. Cherry
pink maids carried the necessary sustenance
of coffee, strawberries and ices to the Always
Hungry. Mrs. Hostess Berry looked impos-
ing in black and silver and many diamonds;
Mrs. Walter Berry blazed likewise in preci-
ous stones and some bright green clothes;
and Mrs. Scot Sharp, accompanied with a
staccato diamond dazzle. Octogenarian R.
S. Smythe. bloomingl.v youthful and tailored
like the young dandy he is, put in an
appearance. He had just been having
another birthday dinner. The Steads were
there; also Mrs. Percy Webster, who looked
a dream as she posed in a buff chair near
the bi-illiant Union Jack. Just as one’s
eyes began to take in all the glory of it. a
moving picture show would blot out the
splendid vision. The Movies took turns
with the artists on the platform.
The Old Colonists’ Association held festi-
val last week over the opening of the Sumner
Hospital at the Rushall Crescent Homes.
Theoditus John Sumner—once M.L.C., now
departed—left the money for the hospital
It is a fine place of three wards; and his
widow, Sarah, helped Governor Stanley to
open it. Mrs. Sumner cut a ribbon barrier
with some silver scissors, and Stanley un-
locked the door with a golden key. The
Governor bagged the golden key at the end
of the proceedings, and Mrs. Sumner was
presented with the scissors. Governor
Stanley had a lovely chance to talk. He is
a great talker. The bioscope will hand him
down to history as one who spent a long and
useful life, with his jaws moving steadily
and rhythmically from ten to four every
day, barring Sunday. ,
The new hospital cost nearly £3OOO, and
crowds of old-timers hobbled along to say
hooray to it. The place was as covered
with bunting as the roof of a circus tent.
Old people drank tea and swapped early
experiences and discussed diseases and the
ridiculous way in which the War isn’t what
wars were in their young days, and in other
respects had a good time.
The eldest Bowes Kelly son has aban-
doned his college blazer for a coat of khaki,
and his desolated relatives have chucked
their usual Tasmanian trip, in order to be
near him at Broadmeadows.
The Everard Brownes’ younger daughter
finished up the scholastic season by engag-
ing spiritedly with the floor the other day.
The floor won and she retired with a broken
leg.
Christine Asquith Baker, artist—not vau-
deville ; the other sort—is back. Whilst
away she had some pictures hung at the
Royal Academy.
Miss Graham, a Scotchwoman who is
visiting Tooraketty relatives, is over-
whelmed. She hasn’t yet got over the
effect of landing in a place where people
are lighthearted, and everything is going on
as usual; where lights are bright in the
evenings, and pleasure resorts are thronged.
This traveller got away from the Tyrol in
time, and has been in London since. She
says that every blade of grass is worn off
the parks in London with the eternal drill-
ing. Society, instead of riding in the
Row, walks about and approvingly watches
the recruits at their patriotic work.
Molly Locke, an Australian girl, is doing a
likeable Margaret Cooper stunt at the Bijou,
with dancing added. She has an accom-
plice, Norman Lee, a local youth with a
Volinin education and some of the Russian’s
football action.
The Melbourne Grammar School is adver-
tising for a new pedagogue to replace
Headmaster Blanche, who, after 16 years
spent under the ivy-clad masonry in South
Yarra, is off to Maoriland. Whoever gets the
billet will hold it for five years only. Perhaps
this departure may lead to imported bishops
being hired by the term. There are obvious
points in it—from the standpoint of the
hirers.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.
The slump of Cold Tea at the recent
Maoriland liquor-option polls was a surprise
to both Bung and Bunkum. After the
narrow escape from State Prohibition at the
elections in 1911 Bung was mighty nervous.
That year 55.83 per cent, voted in favor of
all hands going on the water-waggon (60
per cent, was the majority required). This time
the majority is against the abolition of “hard
tack.” On the question of local no-license,
not a district was carried by the Blue
Ribboners. On the other hand, the 12 dis-
tricts in which the hotels had been previ-
ously closed decided to keep them closed, so
everything stands as it has stood since 1908.
It hasn’t been healthy to be a proprietor
of the Adelaide Register these last few
years. So fast had the seniors been dying
off—and the senior of them, “Bob” Thomas,
was only middle-aged—that Evan Thomas
and Sowden, who were lately-admitted
juniors, found themselves a while ago the
sole surviving partners. T'nen Reg
Thomas. “Bob’s” son, was admitted. He
was a grandson of the Thomas who had had
the first number of the paper printed in
London before S. Aus. was actually founded.
The youngster was promising to do very
well, when he got into a motor accident
and died last week in a private hospital,
aged only 34.


#*
LD
o.
a
Imperml
w
h
The Spirit of dheer


STOPS FALLING HAIR.
This Home-made Mixture Stops Dandruff
and Falling Hair and Aids Its Growth.
To a half-pint of water add :
Bay Rum 1 oz.
Orlex Compound A small box.
Glycerine i oz.
These are all simple ingredients that you
can buy from any chemist at very little cost,
and mix them yourself. Apply to the scalp
once a day for two weeks, then once every
other week until all the mixture is used. A
half-pint should be enough to rid the head
of dandruff and kill the dandruff germs. It
stops the hair from falling out, relieves
itching and all scalp troubl s.
Although it is not a dye it acts upon the
hair roots, and will darken streaked, faded
grey hair in 10 or 15 days. It promotes the
growth of the hair and makes harsh hair
soft and glossy.
KSPPEDIC POMADE for THE HEAD
Strikes infesting vermin dead. One applica-
tion destroys vermin, kills nits, heals sores, cures
ringworm, and makes the hair grow thick and
curly. Kills lice on live stock.
Sydney Agents: Talbots, 206 George Street:
and Washington Soul. Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, or posted from J. Brin, Chemist,
East Malvern, Vic.—l/2, 2/3, 3/9, and with Nit
Cotub, fid, extra.
THE. GREAT REMEDY.
W GOUT **
<St RHEUMATIC PILES.
Tlie severe pain of Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Neuralgia can be relieved by
BLAIR'S PILLS, the Medicine that has
stood the test of Time. Purely vegetable.
Sure and Safe. Sold by all Drug Stores
and 229 Strand, London, England, in Boxes
at Is. and 2s. 6d.
Wholesale Agents: Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
F. H. Faulding and Co.. Sydney, and others.
THE HOWARD: Exact.
In 1829 Edward Howard was apprenticed to
Aaron Willard, Jun., the descendant of a long
line of English Watchmakers, who settled in the
Massachusetts Colony about the middle of the
eighteenth century.
In 1840 he started in business for himself, tip
to that time watches had always been made by
handwork exclusively. Howard’s plan was to
make automatic tools that should perfect the
parts of a watch, leaving to the hand the task of
assembling and finishing the parts.
In 1842 the first Howard Watch was produced
—a thoroughly practical watch. The Howard of
to-day is the finest practical timepiece in the
world for a man to carry in his pocket. -
It has a patented hard-tempered steel balance,
which will not. knock out of true with the jolt
and jar of the severest service.
Peary carried a Howard on his trip to the
Pole.
Orville Wright relied on a Howard in his Aero-
plane Tests.
Admiral Chas. D. Sigsbee carried a Howard for
forty years.
Send your address for the Illustrated Watch
catalogue.
PROUDS LTD.
Jewellers and
Watchmakers,
187 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
THE COLLECTION.
Senator Pearce has acted wisely in reducing the
pay of chaplains to a reasonable rate. It came as
a shock to the public to learn that up to £965 a
year was being paid to these officers. The nature
of their calling, and the special character of their
work with the troops are such as to induce these
gentiemen to make sacrifices, not profits.
—Melbourne Akgus.
Why not let them lake up the collection in
the usual way? The camp frying-pan would
come in useful.
The population of the Northern Territory
(excluding abos.) at the end of 1913 was
estimated at 3588. Of these 2143 were
Europeans, 1177 Chinese, 12G Japs, 87
Malays ond Philippines and 55 other races.
The net increase for the year was 129, or
one to every J/060 of the empty square miles.
Well, what are we going to do about it?
Now that beer has been formally declared
a “necessary commodity,” the Law might
explain what it means by trying, with
Local Option polls and prohibition schemes,
to prevent or curtail the sale of the stuff.
If it’s a necessary, someone ought to be
flogged for interfering with it. If it is a
superfluity, someone else should be bastin-
adoed for lying.
A Sydney yard is building three lighthouse
tenders, to be used to watch the watch-
towers, more especially the untended wink-
ing ones. Three ships, though they will cost
£150,000, will, not be enough to do sentry-go
right round Australia; yet already the ques-
tion of ways and nieans is a serious one. All
the States have a “light rate” in force: and
each needy State Treasurer has announced
his intention to cling on to it, on the ground
that the other revenue doesn’t pay interest
on the money sunk in aids to navigation. If
tlie Commonwealth Government can't get
hold of this money it will have to impose a
super-rate, and if .it goes on ships at £50,000
a time, it will have to be a pretty stiff one.
Genial old W. C. Buchanan, a squatter
knight, of Maoriland, has been defeated for
the Wairarapa. This will probably mean
the old man’s political dead-finish. lie is
considerably over 70. Two years ago, when
the Massey Cabinet was formed, he would
have got the portfolio for Lands but for the
handicap of years. He never did or said
anything startling, but he knew a lot about
agriculture, and was a rich uncle to the
stony and the hard-luck family generally.
The farmers of the Wairarapa sent him into
nine Parliaments. He contracted the habit
of getting elected about 33 years ago, and
continued it, with a break of six years,
until the undistinguished J. T. M. -Hornsley
blew him out last week.
Scaddan, of Westralia, dissatisfied with
the slow growth of his deficit, is going into
the fishing business. What he can’t sell fresh
he is going to cure, the idea being that the
Westralian who hasn’t boiled or fried
schnapper on his table may find comfort in
smoked tailer, pickled jew, kippered Perth
herring, canned crayfish or devilled leather-
jacket. True, the Commonwealth trawler
Endeavor reported recently that the grounds
off W.A. were poor for tra*wling. But
Scaddan doesn’t care. If he can’t make a
success of one thing he is at least deter-
mined to do the thing well and make a
failure of a hundred.
A long while ago—as long as the way to
Tipperary—the Vic. Trained Nurses’ Asso-
ciation laid before the their Health Minister,
Hagelthorn, a scheme for organising and
regulating the nursing industry, and asked
for a Bill. Hagelthorn was too weary or
not yet ripe or something. Presently
he was replaced by Minister J. Dry Brown,
and the nurses called on him. Brown was
sweetly sympathetic and promised to in-
troduce a Bill—and then disremembered all
about it. The measure wasn’t introduced; in
fact, it hasn’t yet been drafted, so
the nurses are now worrying Peacock.
Meanwhile, the scheme has travelled as far
as N’York. It has been seized on and
practically adopted in toto by that State.
The other night:—
Mr. Bruce Smith (N.S.W.) asked the Prime Mini-
ster whether he would not confer with the British
Government to see whether the Commonwealth was
not entitled to take possession of “the whole of
German interests” in mining operations with a view
to the establishment of an Australian national trust.
And the terrible tiger of Socialism purrs
and rubs itself against Spruce Myth’s leg
while he pats it amiably, as though, so to
speak, they had been brought up together
and chased the same mouse.
Premier Peacock’s attempt to regulate
the price of wheat in Victoria has dropped
things into a bog. When his Board fixed
the price at 4s. 9d. and then at ss. 6d., and
finally rescinded the regulation altogether,
it suited the “bulls” to a nicety, and, accord-
ing to reliable reports, some of them stand
to clear a pot of money. Naturally they
don’t want any “interference” just now.
But the “bears” have a much stronger case.
Relying on the Board’s restriction of prices
they contracted to deliver early next year
at something in the neighborhood of the
fixed prices. With the price-regulation with-
drawn they are in the soup and squealing.
Also it doesn’t appear as if they would be
much better off if the Board had another
go and fixed a fresh price, say ss. 9d., be-
cause the “bulls” will continue to hang on.
Meanwhile, the public is no better off. The
big wheat-holders are supplying millers with
just enough to keep going—at Heaven only
knows wliat price (one miller was lately
paying the regulation ,ss. fid. for his wheat
and JfS. each for the hags that held it)- —and
flour is £l3 10s. and bread Bd. per 41b. loaf.
Somebody is coining money, but even Pea-
cock will hardly assert it is the farmer.
THE HEATHEN IN HIS BLINDNESS.
CANNIBAL QUEEN: “I hear that the new missionary who will arrive to-morrow is a
perfect angel !”
CANNIBAL KING: “ Then when yon dish him up at our Christmas feast don't forget to
serve me with the wings."
“Croson’s” case, and it demands an
answer: —•
There is a small, wood-distilling factory at War-
burton (Vic.) which produces formalin, methyl-
alcohol, acetone, etc. It had a hard struggle to keep
'going until the war came to the rescue. The
management applied for increased duties —10 p.c. on
formalin and Is. per gallon on the other two items
but got nothing. The awkward fact is that the Com-
monwealth Government is . a large consumer of
acetone, and to save a gallon or thereabouts it
used to take imported stuff only. When the war
stopped imported supplies it was glad to rush the
local factory. Presumably, being a “Protectionist”
Government, it will, when the war is over, return to
the imported stuff, and the Warburton factory will
shut up.
THE HOLY FROST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Abdul Fez, so the cable says, has realised that he
is a fool;
He’s sitting apart with a quaking heart in his
lovely city of Istainbul;
He’s also skipping among the shipping that trades
to Crete and Besika Bay,
And likewise marching, through deserts parching, to
Suez, where Austral transports lay.
Abdul Fez, so the cable says, is full of trouble —
with heaps to come!
To aid the Germans, lie's issued firmans calling the
Faithful from field and slum
To the Great Jehad ; and his heart is sad because
the Faithful in distant lands
Are deaf and blind, or have changed their mind
and heed no longer the old commands.
Good Mussulmans, like the Sikhs, Pathans and
Soudanese, decline to budge!
The Fiery Crescent finds them quiescent, despite
their age-long racial grudge
Against the Giaour —in a fatal hour they have
eaten his bread and licked his salt!
To the Christian dogs in their Land of Fogs they
are sworn and bound—on them be the fault!
The whole world round, but few are found in this
degenerate day to spring
To Islam’s aid, with gun and blade, while the
welkin to “Deen! Deen!” will ring:
Still, God is great, and the Caliphate of the Prophet
of God is worth something yet;
But Abdul Fez, so the cable says, has smothered the
Faith with Mud and Debt!
The Teuton hand is on Abdul’s land, but can it lift
up the Debt and Mud?
Can it restore the spirit of yore that deluged Europe
with Christian blood?
Can it give charms against deadly arms, and brains
and courage and earth-wide power?
Never again! Though the Faith remain, the Turk
has lived to his final hour!
Abdul Fez, so the cable says, is rushing from place
to place like mad ;
He is pushed to the front to bear the brunt of the
storm that breaks over New Bagdad ;
He is dazed, he is crazed ; and, though tough and
brave and able to fight as well as most,
He has no luck, and his Hour has struck, for his
Holy War is a Holy Frost!
N.S.W.
R. McGEDDON.
MARK TIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The time demands safe and steady politicians, and
in arousing a fiscal controversy Mr. Fisher has done
what he should have avoided most. —Tory comment.
God bless the European war, and down with forward
dreams!
All progress, more or less, is “revolutionary
schemes.”
It suits the chronic as-you-were who simply sits and
dines
To run the poor old, patient State on “safe and
steady lines.”
(If you are partly dead, you live “on safe and
steady lines.”)
The restless soul who’s all alive yearns to get some-
thing done,
And move a stage along the road before the set of
sun;
He is “sensational”—the brute! I’m dignified and
calm.
In fact. I’m ripe and ready for the persons who
embalm.
(The youngest child can see I’m far too dead to do
him harm.)
As I behold this ancient world in throes of blood
upheave,
An inspiration comes to me! My duty I perceive!
I will be “safe and steady” 1 Yes, I will do nothing
now!
And what opponent will rise up to light the party
row?
(God bless the noisy war 1 I would have marked
time anyhow!)
N.S.W.
THE CROW ON THE FENCE.
What is the Best Beauty Soap
for the Complexion?
There is at present a great controversy
going on in the English newspapers about
the best soap to use for the complexion.
Some advocate the use of one and some
another kind, but they are all satisfied on
one or two points, and those are that for a
soap to be beneficial to the skin, must be
one without coloring matter, and without a
lot of strong, coarse, irritating perfume being
added, and also that the soap must be made
from good ingredients without a preponder-
ance of soda, which makes the skin hard.
An English soapmaker has been able to
combine all the above good qualities in a
soap, and at the same time to incorporate
some of the puritol wax, which is so much
in demand as a complexion beautifier and
protective, so that on washing with Puritol
Wax Soap there is a trace of the wax left
on the skin, which, by its continuous sooth-
ing and corrective action on the skin and
its pores, keeps it in a healthy and pure
state, and prevents the formation of pimples
and blemishes on it.
This is a comparison, and is intended to
be odious. Shortly after war started one
of Australia’s multitude of small holidays
appeared on the calendar. It was duly dis-
honored by a total stoppage of work at the
Commonwealth’s Small Arms Factory. In
England, on the other hand, Kitchener has
decided that, if all goes well, Woolwich
Arsenal can have two whole days' rest at
Christmas. But the War Office so plainly
feels that the nation will demand an
explanation, that it adds that by Christmas
the place will have worked night and day
for five months without one hour’s spell.
FIRM AS EVER.
The attitude on the Loan business, and the
Sinking Fund, and the honest finance, and
the tote, and every other blessed old thing.
Attorney-General Hall of N.S.W. says
that he has learned a lot about the wheat
business since his Government started to
meddle with it. At one place a dog was
sleeping on the weighbridge at a country
station, and it was weighed in with the
wheat. So presumably the Government of
which Hall is a member collected freight
for the weight of the dog as well as the
weight of the wheat, and it wasn’t honest
enough to arouse the dog.


\
&
a
di^
wuMiU*
THE EDISON PHONOGRAPH
Invaluable whenever
you have company.
There is no home but is the better for having an Edison Phonograph. They
amuse, entertain and delight all members of your family—and your friends as
well, and enable you to be always prepared for company.
Remember when buying that Edison Phonographs are the most satisfactory talk-
ing machines in the world. They are the only instruments upon which you can
make your own records at home.
The unbreakable Blue Amberol Records make it possible to use a real diamond
point on the Reproducer, which is, of course, indestructible and never needs
changing.
Call on your nearest Edison dealer for full information, or write direct to us for
descriptive booklet, which will be sent post free to your address.
Perfect your voice as a Singer or Speaker
The Edison Home Recording Outfit enables you to hear your voice as others hear
it. It gives you the opportunity to correct the faults of your voice and become
a convincing speaker or successful singer. “The Modern Blarney Stone” is the
title of a booklet which gives full details of this outfit. It will be sent, post
free, anywhere. Write for it to-day.
THOMAS A. EDISON, Ltd. (Wholesale Only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
THE INVINCIBLE LINE:
“INVINCIBLE”
Marine Engines
IN ALL POWERS,
FOR ALL FUELS,
FOR ALL PURPOSES.
“INVINCIBLE”
STATIONARY 8 PORTABLE ENGINES,
SOGTION GAS PLANTS,
MOTOR HOISTS,
PUMPING PLANTS, etc.
ASK FOR QUOTATIONS.
“INVINCIBLE”
Engines are Guaranteed for 5 Years.
Tke “Calcott”
Light Car
(British Built
throughout).
We GUARANTEE
40 Miles per Gallon
♦.. and ...
45 Miles per Hour.
Inspect this Car at our Showrooms —
35 Pitt Street, SYDNEY ; or 529 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Invincible Motor Construction Co. Ltd.
WORKS : WOOLWICH, N.S.W.
MY
FIG. 1.
FIG. 2.
FIG. 3.
| #s*Vp
si m
7*
The
3T
Shirt
Price
716
POST FREE
One Shirt with Three Styles.
For Sport, Outdoor or Town Wear you’ll find the “3T,” with
its three styles, the happiest Shirt idea yet.
A slight movement changes the collar from one style to another.
HOW IT IS WORN
TENNIS SHIRT TOURIST SHIRT TOWN SHIRT.
First of all you have Simply raise the collar, The hinged Collar lies
the cool, comfortable, attach tie and pin for the inside, without a crease,
turn-down polo or sport- nifty, soft, double collar. underneath the neck-band,
ing collar. (Fig. 1.) (Fig. 2.) (Fig. 3.)
Made in “Coat Style”—on and 9ft like a Coat —with Military
pocket, split sleeves, sleeve-length adjusters—improvements you will
appreciate. A Rolled Gold Pin supplied free.
Write to-day for sample Shirt —or send for free patterns Oxfords,
Zephyrs, Cambrics, Fine White Poplins, Porous Mattes.
THE LEVIATHAN
Corner Swanston and Bourke Streets,
MELBOURNE.
IMbis is
7
m
g
w
w
55-.
* %
*
'll
In 1950 the Veteran will refer to the
Standard War Book —-
THE Standard History of the War will stand the test of time. It
is written by experts and specialists. Admirably edited and
illustrated,' it will win approval from every Australian
who wishes to know why the war was begun, and learn from
a fully trustworthy source how it is being fought. It’s a
story that you have a right to be proud of.
A book you must have. Write for full descrip- j* :
tion and free prospectus. It will be sent you post j
free to-day, and no obligation to buy is incurred* , f c
The Standard
Publishing C9.Pt/Ltd.
100 FUNDERS STREET
/S'*
,/s
••
/ / U 0 * (N?\^
A?/
£>V/££* V 4\
/jJ" ,
A
W
/a <?> •;
.' C
.••w
/ V
/ *>
o>
r/»
A *
/a
**
■V^


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: ItICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALGOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
'l»e
t
frliFPI
lIP 1
HEalfE
FLANAGAN’S HOTEL,
Opposite Hyde Park,
Oxford Street, Sydney
CHARLES HERNON (late of Brisbane) has
just taken over the above Hotel.
EXCELLENT ACCOMMODATION FOR VISI-
TORS. Write or wire for rooms.
TERMS: Per day, Bs. : per week, 425.
ALMOST ALWAYS ILL.
HABITUAL CONSTIPATION COR-
RECTED BY DR. MORSE’S INDIAN
ROOT PILLS.
“I was under several doctors in the
suburbs of Sydney some years ago for habi-
tual constipation, and derived little or no
improvement,” writes Mrs. Louisa Burke, of
Ross Street, Newtown, Hobart, Tas. “My
condition was so bad that I was almost
always ill for three days out of every week.
At this period I came across one of your
pamphlets, and noticed the testimony of
many like sufferers from constipation, and
forthwith decided to try Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills. I am exceedingly pleased now
in saying that I consider they really saved
my life. Such a great sufferer had I been
in the past that I am now never without
your great remedy. They occupy a fore-
most position in our household, and I freely
recommend them to all my friends and
acquaintances. If ever I am troubled with
a headache a dose of your pills soon dis-
pels that, and I am restored to perfect health
in a few hours. I am now 60 years of age.
hale and hearty, and likewise my husband,
who also takes your pills when needed. You
have my permission to publish this state-
ment, believing it will afford other sufferers
like relief.”*
DURING the Summer a most pleasant,
refreshing, invigorating Tonic Bever-
age may be made by adding a few drops of
Phos to a glass of cold water. Though
Phos is, primarily, a children’s tonic, yet
weary adults should always keep a bottle
handy. Get it now, and don’t be without
it when the hot, fatiguing days come round.
Sold in shilling bottles. If not obtainable
locally, send 1/3 in stamps to the proprie-
tors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The shadow of the Tote hung like a cloud
ever the Randwick ring on Saturday. The storm of
controversy that has raged of late has had its effect
on the unhappy McNoses. Racegoers are beginning
to regard him as doomed. They are avoiding him as
people tend to shun a failure. Either that or they
are too broke to traffic with him. The business done
over the Trial Stakes was painfully exiguous. Fours
were freely offered about the favorite, who was also
the winner-—an almost unprecedented combination
of circumstances. So revolted were the pencillers at
the miserable response made by the public over this
event that many of them shut up their bags, refused
to bet any more, and took to drink. It is, perhaps,
the first time on record that this sort of protest has
h ecu lodged at the beginning of a big metropolitan
meeting.
Posinatus duly won the big race of the day. The
handsome gelding looked his best. Wood, who rode
him, took no chances whatever. The favorite was
lengths ahead at the five-furlong post. Also, at the
turn. He won by about a lenglth, hard held, from
Trinobantes.
For the rest, the chronic backer or mug did badly.
The published odds about Challenge Crosse, the winner
of the Yilliers Stakes, were 33 to one. On form thev
should have been a million to one. In practice it
was impossible to get twenties. Willow Green, which
looked a good thing for this event, was left at the
post. ♦
It is a mystery why the A.J.C. doesn’t provide
more jumping races. Their spectacular character
renders them popular with the people who make
racing pay. And the encouragement of the sort of
horse that can get over the stiff Randwick course
with 11 or 12 stone on its back is more desirable
jn every way than the pampering of the class of
animal that carries a midget in a five-furlong scram-
ble. Brilliants finished well down the course in the
Nursery Handicap, humping 7st. 121 b. and a lot of
the public’s money. One of the old-time steeple-
chasers that cheerfully carried 12st. 71b. and upwards
over Grand National courses would be of more value
to the country than many Brilliants at the present
juncture.
* * * *
Janesse beat Pearson in Melbourne on
Saturday night. Pearson did well against the ban-
tam-weight champion till half-way through the bout.
Janesse then assumed the strategic offensive, belted
the enemy out of trench after trench, destroyed his
lines of communication, and was in a position to
collect a heavy subsidy upon the declaration of peace
at the end of the 20th round.
* * * *
Sir Ruenalf (Brisbane Cup winner) has
been a splendid money-making beast. Less than three
months ago he began by winning a race at Breakfast
Creek, and, since then, has won Q.T.C. Novice, Sand-
gate and Albion Park Handicaps, and Summer Cup.
Last week he arrived home third in Southport Handi-
cap with 9st. 61b.
* * * *
“O’C.”: A Bulletin par. (3/12/T4)
referred to one phase of the horse-leasing business,
viz., the successes of leased moke's. Another phase
has been much to the fore in Sydney of late; and
since the nomination of a leased candidate for. one
of summer’s big events was declared invalid, it has
caused more or less vinegary discussion. The wrangle
has raged around the question: What are the respec-
tive rights of lessor and lessee of any moke? Can
a lessee of a horse scratch it for engagements for
which he has himself entered it and which take place
after the expiry of the lease ? Many sports argue
with great heat that the lessee’s authority is re-
stricted to engagements within the limits of his
lease. But the rules of racing are against them.
The sport who nominates the moke has to ante up
all payments in connection with the entry, and the
rules allow him the option ot transferring the
engagements to the owner or withdrawing the animal.
At the same time, the lessor (owner) has the right
to enter a horse during a lease for events decided
after it. This protects the owner from a lessee
inclined to be nasty through refusal to renew or
for any other reason.
Besides the 5S “registered” race meetings
in Sydney fixed for 1915 there will be 72 pOny meet-
ings. And there will be 32 race meetings in N. S.
Wales on Boxing Day. As long as there’s a rag left
we’ll see that Shortodds is kept in diamonds and
chorus girls.
* * * *
After measuring the racecourse, etc.,
Queensland Turf Club has accepted as a State record
the performance of Ranlew at Ascot—six furlongs in
lmin. 13 % secs. The record, however, still lags to
the rear of other bests”: lmin. 7 l-ssec. in England,
lmin. 11 4-ssec. in Maoriland. The best Australian
figure is lmin. 12jsee.
Moffat Horne, a sport of the “old school,”
passed out the other day. In the ’Bo’s Horne was
the leviathan among the' punters in Sydney, and hit
“the ring” for & 10.000 over Sloth’s victory in the
Summer Cup at Randwick 30 years ago. He was the
solid financial buttress of Bill Beach, and provided
portion of the Australian’s stake-money when the
great sculler defeated Ned Hanlan for the world’s
championship on the Parramatta. He was an open-
handed sport who had no use for a padlock on his
purse.
“Myrtle Villa”.: This is all strictly per-
sonal and profoundly confidential. When we moved
the time before last the new neighbors on our right
puzzled us almost to death. They played ragtime
till midnight, and never rose to take in the milk till
10.30. When friends called, the revelry boomed along
till 2.30 or later. As the two houses were crowded
together we had to listen to all the music and prac-
tically adopt their demoralising time-table. It would
have cost me my billet for a certainty if I had not
been in the civil service. When the next-door house-
father rose, he didn’t go ofF to work in the approved
manner, but played the pianola in his pyjamas, and
joyously “ragged” round the ramshackle house with
his wife and three spotted daughters. The champagne
bottles in the wash-house further indicated the hectic
life. The ladies of the family were all curling-pins,
teagowns and shrieks in the house; but when they
went out for the afternoon the other women-residents
stole long, lingering looks at silk stockings, feathers,
bangles and rings, and then said bitter things about
the miserable wage-earner who had the inestimable privi-
lege of presenting them with their “wretched rags.”
These honest toilers could only manage to afford
them sufficient cover to keep the blast of criticism
from their backs. At last came a friendly gas-
collector who had been on the round for years
and knew everybody, and to him I put the question :
“What does the man on the right do for a living?”
The collector laughed comfortably. “Oh, him!
He’s Isaac Mugtrap, the bookie.” And, having lived
next to Mugtrap and considered his habits, I really
think it would be healthier for all hands if we had
the tote instead. Which is the better way—-to have
empty champagne bottles in Mugtrap’s wash-house, or
to put our fainting charities on an even keel by
forcing Mugtrap to get work?
* * * #
When Ben Doyle entered the ring at
Sydney Stadium on Saturday night he resembled an
elderly importer preparing for a surf-bathe. Aged
men, of a pacific appearance, ministered to him.
There was nothing of the atmosphere of combat about
his corner. Les O’Donnell, his opponent, was, on
the other hand, the typical youthful athlete. When
Ben waddled forth to do battle, pendulous as to his
stomach, and femininely fat of leg, he looked more
harmless than ever. And then the two clashed and
it became obvious that Ben is one of those human
deceptions who are the Nemesis of the fight-seeking
bar-loafer. He is full of aggression as a gnui.
He is almost untireable. Pain does not affect him,
nor does leakage of blood render him weak- He
lost the first round by a big margin, being hooked,
smitten on the nose, and upper-cut with much fre-
quency. He also did poorly in the next. Then he
became annoyed. He pursued O’Donnell from corner
to corner, and battered that upstanding young man
with hardly a let-up. But O’Donnell’s long left was
repeatedly in Ben’s nose, and the latter’s eye was
streaming with gore. Ben padded to his corner at
the end of the eighth term looking like a Supreme
Court Judge who had been thrown out of a pub. At
the finish of the twelfth round he suggested a bishop
who had been run over by a tram. Later, he made
cne remember Louvain, and think of Mons and Dix-
mude, and wonder that there was so much blood in
the human body. For the last four or five rounds
he had O’Donnell frankly on the run, so much so
that the crowd hooted one who is as game as any
man in, the business. O’Donnell’s corner was satis-
fied that their man had won on points, and he was
fighting accordingly. Hence, there was a certain
amount of surprise when referee Harald Baker gave
the fight to Ben at the end of 20 rounds. The
devastated aspect of the winner’s countenance was
partly responsible for the surprise. Ben was un-
doubtedly hit oftener than O’Donnell. But he led
all the time, and the smites which he did deliver
were woodeners. A draw might have been a fair
thing. Anyhow, it was a great fight.
* * * *
R. J. A. Massie, who has gone to , Egypt
with the Australian expeditionaries, is a good type.
He is, approximately, 6ft. lin. long and 14 stone
heavy. He is an international cricketer and one
of the best bowlers N. S. Wales has produced in
recent years. He took up boxing recently, and
entered last year for the Amateur Championship
Heavyweight competition at the Rushcutter Bay
Stadium. The amateurs in this class are mostly
boys of the wharf-lumping breed who can take
hard knocks as philosophically as anyone. Massie
knew little about fighting, and his good temper is
such that he had to be punched severely, several
times, before he would wake up and wade in. When
he did it was invariably all over with the enemy.
The latter were simply mowed down. At no stage
of any of his contests —all of which ended in his
favor in three or four rounds, or less—did Massie
lose his wide smile of amiability. The last time
the writer saw him he was convoying a number of
blithered University friends from a city bar, he
himself being, of course, stone sober. A better-
balanced, better-looking, healthier specimen of the
male animal you couldn’t wish to find. His father
is that equally well-set-up Massie who played
cricket for Australia a quarter of a century ago and
is now lieutenant to T. A. Dibbs, general manager
of the Commercial Bank, and patriarch of Australian
banking.
* * * #
Monte Wolf, the leading juvenile of the
Tivoli revue, is that rare thing among vaudeville
artists, an ex-pug. He was doing well as a
welter-weight when he decided that there was more
money and less physical anguish in the boards.
Wolf wears a hat, by the way, that should be
abolished in the interests of law and order. It
is a sort of brimless straw topper, and is worn
well down on the ears. Such a garment clamors
for insult when affected in the public streets.
In fact, no one but a young and active fighting
man would be safe in it for a day.
Fernand Quendreux, one of the French
boxers, had a win against Alf Morey in Brisbane on
Saturday night. The present batch of Frenchmen, like
the last, fight a splendid winning battle. Quendreux had
the luck to get Morey on the chin in the fifth round.
This heartened up the Gaul tremendously. He began
to perform with the utmost confidence and dash. He
took risks, and events justified his daring. Morey
was downed repeatedlv till the 17th, when his towel
came in. If the visiting French boxers only had the
gift of coming again, after a bad doing, they would
be worth going far to watch.
* * * *
To place everything in order for Kahana-
moku and party, N.S.W. Amateur Swimming Associ-
ation has declared its championship carnival “open”
to the world. Had it done so when the visit of Duke
and party was known months ago (Duke, by the
way, isn’t a title but a “Christian” name), it is
more than probable that over-sea entries would have
happened along. Ever since the Hawaiian made the
Yankees look so foolish a couple of years ago there
is a thirst for the brown brother’s blood; so, by
slothfulness, the Ass. has possibly missed a great
haul. However, Ivan Stedman (Victoria), who re-
cently swam 100yds. in 57 4-5 sec., and E. Finlay
(Westralia) will add inter-State flavor to the carni-
val and help to brighten matters.
* * *• *
The swimming carnivals, which will
brighten athletics in Australia during the next few
months, were introduced at Sydney Domain baths on
Saturday, when the speed-men of Sydney and Mel-
bourne clubs fought their annual water battles. There
were five races, of which Sydney won three, scoring-
-49 points to 48. It was fine sport and keen, and
marked by brotherly love and Christian fortitude.
The most stirring performance was the 440yds. race,
won by Victoria’s budding merman, J. Stedman.
He swam well into the lead early and remained there
until about 50yds. from knock-off. There Ma's bright
DUKE KAHANAMOKU as he looks when
out of the water.
marine youngster, O. Thomas, came ploughing after
him, and the two fought every foot of the way amidst
the roar of the multitude. Stedman won by half his
length, and was thankful that home was no farther
along the road.
* * * *
George Gray, Australia’s billiardist, who
started out making long-distance breaks in 1909,
climbed on the top of all ivory-ball records last
week in England, when he scored 1051 in a match of
3000 up against Walter Osborne. His best with
bonzoline balls is 2196, unfinished. This lot was
made in London in 1911, and 1944 of them came off
the red. So far as available records go, Osborne’s
best break is 325.
* * * *
The venerable question: “What is killing
cricket?” got an answer in the inter-State dust-up
at Adelaide on Friday. Not till the tenth over was
the first run scored, and Kelleway (N.S.W.) batted
55min. before he reached double figures. He was at
the wickets 73min. for 22 runs in the first innings.
The “college match,” which has pro-
duced so many good cricketers in Adelaide, was a very
moderate affair this year. Scoring has somehow kept
low on the Oval since bore water has been used ; yet
the turf looks well enough. St. Peter’s boys scored
only 135, though the Prince Alfred bowling did not
look difficult. The others had trouble in getting as
many, but did it. Then an unusual rainstorm
came. “Saints” went out for 63, and “Princes” won
by six wickets. It is their first win for - five seasons.
However,' to make up for being in the cold so long,
P.A.O. has this year made a clean sweep of football,
cricket, tennis, gymnasium and “sports.”
* * * *
Alec Kermode is back to Sydney cricket.
It was Maclaren (then touring the Commonwealth
with an English XI) who adopted him as a ground
bowler to the Lancashire lads, and Kermode spent
years there. His arm is still good. Playing for Glebe
against Redfern last week he bagged three wickets
for 17.
* * * *
Midlane isn’t the only batsman in Maori-
land who is walloping the cover off the ball this
season. Butterworth, of Wanganui, has these
to his credit: Six times to the crease, 1041
Any Ready Reckoner will supply the a\ e &*•
There has been talk in Australia of “big
money obtained by members of the Ai a n.
and dv professional (or semi-professional) _ t p e
ers. Don’t mention it! By the last mai the
glad tidings that Johnny Evers ca Pta .n . ” {
Boston (U.S.) Braves (baseball eeiebiitiest, h
received close up to £9OOO for the y®»■ • tj cost
thickest wad yet collected by a ball plaj -
Boston a bonus of £5OOO to sign him on AsL® a
and £2OOO a year as wages to him the •
man could almost enjoy baseball at tho.e rates.
* * * *
Dick Arnst is training on the Parramatta,
and, as the talent puts it, expects to come back.
The last time he expected to “come back > he erreu,
and he’s likely only to come back to ernn a„am.
* * * *
“Billy” Ripley and J. S. Hawkes, two
promising Ma Slate sedhrs, go forth wjth the nex
batch of Australians to the dust-up in Euiope o
elsewhere. (Elsewhere isn’t on the mgjr y >
when the new map is arranged it will loom jarge.)
They claim the record of being the fust =culleis o
enlist from Australia, and if anybody wishes to
argue the point with them, the censor is the custo-
dian of their address. # *
“Pick”: Mention by The Bulletin of
Dally Messenger, one of Australia s great foot-
ballers, propels me to the front with the informa-
tion that if he has taken to boat sailing it isn t his
first offence. Eleven years ago, at the fiist Wallaga
(South Coast, N.S.W.) regatta, 1 saw him win the
double, represented by single sculls (wagei boat)
and dinghv sailing- events. At the same meeting,
with his brother Charley, he was beaten on the
post for the double sculls, and he splashed into
second place in the swimming-race handicap from
scratch. *
A new S. M. Herald contributor named
Davidson, writing from England about Sir Edward
Grey, says he has had great success at dry-fly fishing,
and adds: “lie has done most of it near Micheldever,
in Hampshire, though few people in that Quiet
countryside were aware that the tall, well-set-up
man, who sat by the stream fishing • patiently for
hours, was one of the greatest living statesmen.
This is worse than the classic English journalistic
bloomer which concerns “the crack of the rifle being
heard on the moors on August 12th. The date is the
opening of the grouse-shooting season, and grouse aie
not slain with rifles. One does not sit down patiently
while using the dry fly. This form of sport is about
as strenuous as any. The fish has first to be stalked.
The fly must be kept dry by being waved tireless!.!
in the air. The casting is a most wearying business,
so much so that enthusiasts are stiff all over tor
davs after the beginning of the season. It the
slightest disturbance is made the prey goes down,
and another fish has to be found and lured to its
doom. The man who sat dry-fly fishing for hours
beside a Hampshire stream would do as much good
for his basket by visiting Australia and sitting with
a rod and Hne alongside a Never Never clay-pan.
* * *
If Kaiser Bill’s Zeppelins do make a raid
on England the bird-men there will indulge in a
new sport. Fishing for a Zeppelin by trailing
2000 ft. of steel wire ending 1 in a six-pronged nook,
the angler being seated in a fast aeroplane, is a
sport that should be exciting enough to please
anyone.
The Melbourne-to-Sydney motor-cycle
battle, on December 29, 30, 31 and January 1, has
drawn about a dozen entrants. The conditions are
based on the supposition that all machines are m
touring trim —-the best of all tests. The route has
been divided into four sections—from Melbourne to
Wangaratta, 148 miles ; Wangaratta to Gundagai,
165 miles; Gundagai to Goulburn, 120 miles; Goul-
burn to Sydney, 132 miles. The dozen (or there-
abouts) riders' who have nominated for the long-
racket may expect to have another couple of dozen
clatterers to keep them company.
* -X- *
This is how the “Australian Cycle Racing
Circuit’’ scheme (mentioned last week) is put to
The Bulletin : The scheme which it is proposed to
carry out is to promote race meetings in the capitals
and the principal rural towns in the six Australian
States. By this means it is the belief of the Federal
Council secretary that the company which is to pro-
vide the capital will make profits out of its enter-
prise and place the sport on the- high pedestal it
occupied in the boom days, when as many as 50,000
people attended the night carnivals in Sydney. The
promoters will carry their own electric-light plant
for illuminating the tracks, and a motor-lorry will
be used to transport it from town to town. The six
best riders in Australia will be engaged, and given
a special guarantee. Other good riders will follow
the circuit of their own accord, and the local riders
will provide the remainder of the men required to
fill up the programmes. Race meetings will be held
at 200 towns in the six States. As promoters already
have sanction for a 48-hours’ race this month, and a
six-days’ race at Easter, Sydney will not be included
in the programme; but the bigger N. S. Wales
country towns will. A start will be made with a
meeting at Newcastle.
THE BAR-TANGLED MANNER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Shreveport (Louisiana), Dec. 12. —Having been
charged with the recent murder of the postmaster
another negro has been lynched here. The mob
bound him to a tree with coils of wire, and then
burned him.
There have been eight lynchings of negroes here
during the past year, five of them arising out of the
murder of the postmaster.— Cable.
Oh, say, did you see by the cables last night—
What the papers this morning more fully
reprinted—•
How the Black Yanks of Shreveport assaulted the
white,
And the White Yanks responded with lyachings
unstinted'?
There are fryings galore
On Columbia’s shore,
And it looks very much as if there will bo more
In the bar-tangled manner of Which Yankees rave
When they roast Brother Ham on the postmaster’s
grave!
Oh, the nigger must cringe; that’s what niggers are
for,
Though they've all got good votes, you can bet
they daren’t use ’em!
And they mustn’t claim kin with the whites, any
more
Than the whites will permit when they want to
amuse ’em.
But the postmaster's dead,
And his murderer’s fled,
Whoever he was, and five niggers are sped
In the tar-strangled manner dealt out to the slave
Where they fry niggers whole ’twixt a drink and a
shave!
Oh, the British are soft, and the French are effete —
’Tis only the Yankee who kills without flinching;
Though some of the Germans appear pretty fleet,
Yet even they baulk at an old-fashioned lynching,
Where, bound fast with wire
To a tree, Yanks set tire
To a kerosened nigger arid watch him expire
In the shade of “Old Glory,’’ the flag of “the
Brave”
When they grill Brother Ilam —five of him!
Amid applause—
And spontaeous outbursts of utter satisfaction—
On the postmaster’s grave!
N.S.W.
A MERE AUSTRALIAN.


WHITE ROSE
TOBACCO
If you like a tobacco with a pleasing
aroma, that never varies in quality and
always smokes cool and sweet, you should
smoke “WHITE ROSE.” It is just such
a tobacco.
It is one of T. C. Williams Co.’s (Vir-
ginia, U.S.A.) famous high-grade
tobaccos. It is put up in one strength
only—Medium.
4oz. tins, 2/-; Boz. tins, 3/9; lib. tins,
7/6; Plug Form, 7/- per lb.
POSTAGE: lib., N.S.W., 9d.; Inter-
State, 1/2.
W T rite for a copy of my illustrated cata-
log of Tobacco, Cigarettes, Cigars, etc.
It will be mailed free on request.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“Cigar Expert,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“SHELL”
BENZINE
AGAIN insisted on
by
Sir Ernest Shackleton
for use in
The Imperial Antarctic
Expedition.
OXO»
cles
HEND
BGCQ
7-h.p. Twin, Free-engine,
3-inch Tyres, £6B.
Hendee Manufacturing Co.
109 Russell Street, Melbourne, VIC.
Send for Catalog D.
%
r
4
£
0^
I heard a young mother talking to
her little son about his teeth, telling him
how important it is that the teeth be kept clean.
“If you want to be a big, strong boy,” she said, “and then a big, strong man, you
must have good teeth. And, to keep your teeth sound you must remember now,
while you are a little boy, to brush them twice every day." The young mother told
me that the youngster liked the taste of the Ribbon Dental Cream, and that this
had helped her in inducing him to form the important daily habit. Of course,
she talked with him about it now and then to impress on him the great advantage
to his health and comfort that comes with this daily care. “Then twice a year,”
she added, “I have the dentist look him over.”
You, too, should use
COLGATE’S
RIBBON DENTAL CREAM
TKADK MARK.
I COUPON. 1
CHIPMAN LTD.. 54, Margaret St.,Sydney.
Please send me a trial size of Colgate’s Ribbon
Dental Cream. I enclose 2d. it; stamps to defray
cost of packing and postage.
Name
Address
THE FIRST Essential
to a satisfactory pair of Shoes is that they
should be Comfortable. Combined with this
they must be of Good Appearance, made in
a First-class Manner, and of the very Best
Materials.
This is the combination of merits which have
made RIGNEY SHOES so popular and
satisfactory.
The illustration shows a Choice Willow Calf
Derby Shoe, Fine Stitched Welts, Perforated
Vamp, Lace Face and Cap.
Price 22/0 and 25/*
In Black or Tan. Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a Copy of Our Catalogue.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE
All Athletes
Use
BOSISTO’S
“ PARROT I
BRAND**
I EUCALYPTUS OIL.|
Ml
» til #
H
■
I
wm
■■ :
:
i
'
11
‘
■ I
m
8*
■
: :
? . •
iUlf MS
■
m
■
;
■
■
>
m
1 H
t
U
Wi
m
■y
:
.
SH
Atas-r 1 !
in
Bosisto's “Parrot Brand” Eucalyptus Oil,
the Famed Remedy for Rheumatism, Sprains,
.Bruises, Wounds, Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis
• s
zy
:
■
. ....
Don’t Miss the
“Lincoln-Stuart”
Suit Special at
635.
This is an offer that because of its
Genuineness and its Real V alue you
cannot afford to let go by. The kernel
of its worth is in the
Exquisite Range
of Materials
it includes. These, in Texture and in
Design, rank with Suitings at much
Higher Fgures, and in Normal Times
would be Priced Much Higher even
by ns. For a Period
now drawing to a
elose we are making
them up at 635., the
Lowest Price at which
it is possible to supply
them, and at the same
time to give Tailor-
ing of a Worthy
Standard.
Write for Patterns
at once.
They'll reach by Re-
turn Post, free,
together with our
Latest Catalog, Self-
measurement Form,
Tapes, etc. Don’t for-
get that we make to a
6-day Schedule. We
Pay Freight and
WE—GUARANTEE —SATISFACTION
under penalty of a full refund.
Lincoln Stuart 8 Co. Pty. Ltd.,
“Outfitters by Mail,”
244-254 FLINDERS STREET
MELBOURNE


Weatherproof
TULLE
•I Ordinary Tulle—when exposed io
moist, damp air or rain—quickly loses the
distinctive charm of the fabric.
Don’t buy ordinary Tulle when you can get
"Dynamo” Rainproof Tulle. If your Hat
isi trimmed with ' ‘ Dynamo ’ ’ you know before-
hand that weather can’t mar its beauty.
9 “Dy namo” Tulle is proof against climate
and weather. The hat you trim with it can be
worn fearlessly anywhere—everywhere. Damp
atmosphere and rain won’t worry you because
‘'D/namo" is waterproof.
q The economy of ' ‘ Dynamo ’ ’ is self-apparent
—months after odinary Tulle
has become limp and lifeles •• it
still looks the same as when
purchased. Frequent renewals
are entirely dispensed with.
D yrTekiHo :
REPROOF Tulle
36 ins. wide. In Black, White
and all fashionable shades.
9d„ 10R, 1/-, 1/3 and 1/6
per yard upwaids.
G, All the best Milliners us ■ "Dynamo” Rainproof
Tulle. All the best Stores sell it by the yard. But
be sure you get the genuine. The name is on the end
of the card on which the Tulle is wound. If any
difficulty in obtaining locally, send direct to address
below, stating colour, quantify and price per yard, and
we will see that you are imm diately supplied.
“DYNAMO” ENQUIRY DEPT.,
Carlton House, York Street, Sydney.
Fisher’s Adver isin cr Agency
6.
u
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
age, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. B.
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. B. ALLEN’S iu.s.a.i
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suitable
for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
JASON
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
How to be Beautiful.
By RITA MOYA.
o-nnd fortune to be endowed by Nature with fine features and
It is not every woman s g is p0SS ible to make the plainest face attractive, and
a flawless complexion, but n home without recourse to beauty specialists, which usua. y
that, too, in the privacy of one ■ endeavor t0 sho w y0 u in the
involve expensive dmie in this direction by any woman of ordinary intelli
following lines how mjtch y necessary, use only the pure ingredients just as they
gence. When facial applic allow yourself to be persuaded into buying some
come to the chemist hiinse . . > Any c h e mist will gladly obtain the original con-
centr P ated a hig“dient P s for you,t^ifil^h^orderrthem 11 °iof ‘"you ma Thfimprovement Tn your
“ ken *° -> btafc tiese simple *°
harmless beautifiers.
Beauty in Breathing.-A great deal can be
'one towards brightening the eyes by system
itie hreath ; ng for 10 minutes each moining
■ nd evening Breathe slowly and deeply to
the fullest capacity of the lungs. you should
stand erect bv an window, the corsets
should not bd worn during this exercise.
About Shampooing.— Even the best
is somewhat drying, and if the hair is n
naturally oily I suggest that just before the
shampoo you apply olive oil to tlle ”calp. rub-
bing it into the hair roots vigorously Then
use pure stallax for the shampoo. Dissolve a
teaspoonful in a cup of hot water. I his will
leave the hair very clean, soft and iiutiy.
An Instantaneous Beautifier. Instead of face
powder, use a simple lotion made from one
ounce of cleminite and four teaspoonfuls or
water. This lotion will tone and clear the
skin, and acts as a protection against sun and
wind. A little applied with the finger-tips
instantly gives the skin a delightful b l°9 II jy
appearance. No powder is necessary, and the
result lasts all day long under the most try-
ing conditions.
To Permanently Remove Superfluous Hair.
It is a simple matter to remove a downy
growth of hair temporarily, but to remove it
permanently is quite another matter. It is a
pity that it is not more generally known that
powdered pheminol may be used for this pur-
pose. Apply it directly to the hair. The
recommended treatment is designed not merely
to instantly remove the hair, but also to event-
ually kill the roots entirely. Any chemist
should be able to supply you with an ounce
of pheminol, which quantity should be sum-
(dent.
The Real Cause of Most Bad Complexions.
It is an accepted fact that no truly beautifu
“omplexion ever came out of jars and bottles,
and the longer one uses cosmetics the worse
the complexion becomes. Skin, to be healthy,
must breathe. It also must expel, through the
pores, its share of the body’s effete material.
Creams and powders clog the pores, in-
terfering both with elimination and breathing.
If more women understood this there would
be fewer self-ruined complexions. . If they
would use ordinary mercolised wax instead of
cosmetics they would have natural, healthy
complexions. This remarkable is
not absorbed by the skin; its action is just
the opposite. The skin repels mercolised wax,
and at the same time throws off all imperfec-
tions. An exquisite new complexion peeps
out, quite free from any appearance of artifi-
ciality. Apply nightly, like cold cream, for a
week or two, washing it off in the morning.
About Hair Tonics. —Bach week almost one
hears of some wonderful discovery for im-
proving the hair, and although this paragraph
may seem a little superfluous, an old-fashioned
recipe may come as a welcome change. One
thing about it is that it will grow hair, and
also prevent it falling out. From your chem-
ist get an original package of boranium, to
this add i-pint of bay rum, allow it to stand
•°.0 minutes, then add sufficient water to make
half a pint. Rub briskly into the scalo with
the flntrer-tips and you will immediately ex-
perience that clean, tingling sensation which
is a sure sign pf healthy action. rn
-
m
i
The
Daintiest of
XMAS GIFTS
Can you imagine a more charming
idea in Christmas or New Year
cards than a Zenobia-perfumed
Greeting Sachet?
“All the world and his wife” know
Zenobia Perfumes —the , only faithful re-
productions of the scents of such long-
cherished flowers as the Lily of the
Valley, the Sweet Pea and the Night-
scented Stock. Zenobia Sachets are im-
pregnated with these or other delicious
fragrances.
Made in silk or satin in a large variety
of shapes and tints, and enclosed in
pretty book-form greeting cards. Ask to
be shown a selection.
Wholesale Agents for Australasia:
THE A.M. & I. CO., LTD.,
5-11 Parker Street (Haymarket),
Sydney; and 100 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
7ENOBIA
FLOWER PFPFUMEjL,
Sole Manufacturers:
ZENOBIA LTD., Dept. 72,
. LOTJGHBOROCGH,
ENGLAND.
Tricks, Puzzles, Jokes, Novelties.
Write for New Catalogue
—Post Free.
JOKER'S SNAKE CAMERAS.
An imitation of a camera, from which a large snake springs out.
Post free, 1/3. Larger sizes, 2/- and 3/6, post free.
THE PHANTOM CARD TRICK.
Five cards are shown. Anyone
mentally selects three. The five
cards are now dropped in a hat. Per-
former picks out the two cards not
selected. Someone puts hand in hat
to bring out the three selected cards,
WIRE PUZZLES—AII Kinds.
Six different Puzzles for 2/-, post free, or
12, all different, for 3/6, post free.
but they have vanished, the hat being quite
empty. Very bewildering and easy to work.
Post free, with full instructions, Bd.
Handkerchief can be used instead of hat, if
desired. We can supply a set of 6 different
card tricks, in addition to the above, for
3/3, post free.
Our Speciality-THE JOKER’S NOVELTY PACKET,
containing
“The Joker’s Plate Lifter.”
“The Joker’s Love Bond.”
“The Joker’s Squirt Camera.”
“The Joker’s Electric Push Button.”
These Four Good Jokes for 2/6, post free.
Our New Catalogue * which is Post Free, is a Novelty in Itself.
H. L. HUTCHINSON LTD.—New York Novelty Co.,
708-710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office, Sydney.
WE SPECIALISE IN ALL KINDS OF TOYS.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Magnet: If the bank at Lake Way
(W.A.), or anywhere else, treats Australia’s ten-
shilling notes with scorn, there is no remedy as the
law stands. Supposing it was enacted that banks
must keep 40 per cent, of their cash reserves in
Federal notes, and that they must always offer Aus-
tralian 10s. or £1 notes in payment for cheques,
something might happen. As things stand, nothing
happens. The meanest bank in the most back-blocky
town in Australia is allowed to scoff at the currency
of this great country.... Oldest Subscriber: W hat is
there to reply to? The essential point is that N. S.
Wales imports so much and exports so little that it
is borrowing about £8,500,000 per annum abroad to
pay for the surplus imports and the interest on its
foreign debts —in other words, to keep the State
from being drained of money. And other Australian
States are in very similar condition. As the borrow-
ing can’t go on for ever, and as we don’t seem able
to materially increase the exports, the only thing is
to reduce the imports. That is where Protection
comes in. AH the rest of the yarn is mere verbiage.
.... H. J.: Henry George once told this writer and
some friends that Protection was absolutely unneces-
sary because trade always balanced itself automati-
cally, and exports paid for imports. One of the party
asked him how, in that case, Australia had incurred
about £150,000,000 of foreign debt simply by im-
porting more than its exports sufficed to pay for.
And all H. George could say was that he had never
studied the matter....H. Maran: Sylvanmore was
one of the 21 final acceptors for the Caulfield Cup.
Tassy: Brother, work is the antidote for your
complaint C.8.A.: Can’t guarantee to return
paragraphs even if stamps are attached. Payments
are made by accountant' on receipt of clippings of
pars or date of issue and number of page on which
they appear. .. .Toy Soldier: The robust artillery-
man is scarce now because the batteries are mostly
composed of young men who are not yet in their
20’s. Anyhow, what if your “old type” of artilleryman
has disappeared? Isn’t the efficiency of our gunners
greater now than it was five years ago? J.S.T.:
Sorry can’t discuss your compositions by letter. The
Bulletin wants to pay for everything it prints.
Specify the contribution (date and page) and apply
to accountant. .. .J.A.K.: We don’t profess to please
everybody. When you come to think of it, even
the Devil doesn’t profess to please everybody...<
North Q.: Thank you Billgo: “Sir,— May
I ask on what authority and for what
reason, whether good or bad, you will persist
in calling that isle of the sea, generally known as
New Zealand, ‘Maoriland 1 ? Don’t you think if you
rechristened N.S.W. ‘Rabbitland’ it would be more
to the point ?” It would be, Billgo, if there were
many more like you in N. S. Wales. .. .S.A.W.: The
pigeon-racing argument has concluded. By the way,
what was it about? Jason: Your abusive letter to
hand. In reply we merely say that we despise you.
Also, the chief of staff in Melbourne despises you
under instructions sent by letter. If you call at
his office (369 Collins-street) you will find him
despising you. Incidentally, we are wiring to our
Adelaide representative directing him to shudder
whenever he hears of you. He is a great shudderer,
and when he gets really going you will wish you
had never been born....E.L. (Los Angeles) : Nice
little verse ; also a feeble little verse... .E.L.C.S.:
Not sufficient interest or artistry E.J.H.: Sorry
verses unsuitable. .. .H.M.: It is dull and illegible.
A.T.D.: Old-maidish Tommy W.: A plain,
unvarnished * yell. ... Shortfellow: It’s a long, long
way to acceptance. Your poem died of thirst on
the road Dorothy A.: As good as a whiff of
chloroform A.H.: Verses are sitting in the office
cemetery awaiting stamps for return.... Red Cross:
We can’t fire on you. Anyhow, though it is imma-
ture verse, you may do better if you read wisely
and try hard. ... Bellerive: From the eastern theatre
of war: —•
AN AUSTRIAN SPY.
A group of cossacks were
Huddled in a village Inn
During an halt on the route
To the battle din,
When they were aroused
By a comrade’s frenzied cry—•
By god -the waiter’s
An Austrian spy.
From the cossacks rang out
A diabolical cheer > !
When his throat was severed
From ear to ear.
.... Phenyle: Dad looks , too mad and is wholly
unprintable Emu: The poetic egg won’t hatch
out... .Weasel: You write on both sides of the
paper. Don’t write on either side... .J.M.T.: Take
it away and sing it where we can’t hear y0u....
J.S.W.S.: Can’t accept the widow’s mite. It
wouldn’t be a fair thing... .Mr. Thomson: Your
best plan would be too to get in touch with the
person who stole and sold your poem, and offer him
a full, pardon and a liberal commission (say, 50 per
cent.) on all business. , He must be a wonderful
salesman.. . .L.A.R.: War-poem doesn’t explode with
sufficient fury Walter G. (Hobart): Give the
verses to the girl.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.G.1.: It doesn’t go. The remark is too subtle
for a station Binghi, and the drawing is wooden.
....Mary G. (Q.) : No value R.M.C.: Why do
you draw the room as if the spectator were sus-
pended face downward from the ceiling ?—.
Como: Childish Harry H.: Not yet
H.L.M.: Go swimming this summer and get
a few ideas about anatomy... .B.H-R. (M.L.):
Don’t send any more.... Ron S.: Very crude
drawing of woman holding out a collection-
box. No use to u 5.... Rupert S.: Wooden as ever.
Perce S.:-. Give up art for a while and study draw-
ing.. ..George A. (S.A.): Diagram dreadful, and
the gag and idea are both stolen from a recent Ger-
man paper. , Frankly, what do you think of yourself ?
Kitchener was very nearly kicked out of
the British Army at the outset of his career.
In 1870 the* • youngster, then a Woolwich
cadet, bolted across to join the French army
against the Germans. When the
British War Office authorities heard about it,
they, of course, peremptorily ordered his re-
turn. The„ old Duke of Cambridge, then
Commander-in-Chief, had the culprit before
him. Asked why he did it, the youngster
replied' that he understood he would not be
wanted for some time, so he “ran across
thinking he might learn something.” The
answer saved his bacop. The Duke “saw
there was real grit in him, and decided he
should have his commission.”


K'Mj i
.v .Ml *
i •*, •••j .•w. , i, v s«it.„,
*' •*- ;■'#•?%; ■ V :?> ■•: t-‘- -■ V;,' *
•,>'■*. ■.'.•:■■ ■ • i-V® ■ V'/v».
> iv ,',:'*\, ,
'''■"MV" '' IM M # %|; \
~.-• ' • .„•• a ...•*' ■
.X 1111
frill.
... f »&
mmi
3Dm©
WORRIED
BY WAR
AHTI? THE- DAYS
WORK IS OVER
The Highest Expression of Musical Enjoyment is attained in the
BEALE PLAYER-PIANO.
IT is a British production, in no way dependent upon German
supplies; and is manufactured specially to meet the require-
ments of the Australian market. The Beale Player-Piano
embodies the latest improvements in player-piano construction,
and is operated by any standard roll. The player mechanism is
a beautiful production in aluminium with metal tubes, the unre-
liable and, in hot climates, troublesome wooden and rubber
connections and seatings being avoided.
Your personal examination of the Beale Player-Piano is solicited.
It is sold direct from the manufacturers, free from importers’
profits and customs duties, under a guarantee for 25 years.
Cash or easiest terms. Full value allowed for your old piano.
BEALE & COMPANY LIMITED.
Head Office & Factories: 41=47 Trafalgar Street, Annandale, N.S.W.
Showrooms:
136 Liverpool Street, Sydney
George Street, Bathurst
Fitzmaurice Street, Wagga
273 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
131 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane
Flinders Street, Townsville
839 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
70 Hunter Street, Newcastle
Argent Street, Broken Hill
Summer Street, Orange
Lismore
Kent Street, Maryborough, Q’land
William Street, Rockhampton
Sydney Street, Mackay
Cairns, Q’land.
Full Compass.
Metal Action Wind Ways
and Aluminium Valve
Seatings & Connections.
Five Throw Air Motor.
Auto=Tracking Adjuster.
Solodant and Melody
Selector.
Auto = Sustaining Device.
Rapid Re=roll.
Tempo or Phrasing Lever.
Pianissimo Grading Lever.
Loud=Pedal Finger Lever.
Dividing Treble and Bass
Buttons.
Silencing Device (Selector).


Mr'TH. GRIN DELL MATTHEWS (the Inventor
of Wireless Telrnhnnv) mtes:—*T suflered^frora
I, sle fat
(/ I d
yesr v w ratt wt-- y *m d 1 » w ■
some conditions, or for dejection, Slid if'imme-
diately renews the strength of my nerves, and
exercises a stimulating effect on the whole of
the nervous
Mr. ROBERT RADFORD (the well-known
Bass Singer) writes:—“l have derived the greatest
o o
o O
HONORED
I^OYAL-
COMMAND
Jngl
s^^rer-fa..*——
vocally relaxed, Phosferine immediately restores
resonance and brightness to the voice, banishes
lassitude, and generally tones up the system."
—63, Haverstock Hill, London, England.
SWEHLEN, the talented and charming
"I have used Phosferine with really
general health. The unusual exertion!
its make one nervously anxious and
much 'induces dull
in effectually
tonic for
totes the
sure it
one's
Mias EM |
Actress, w
and eaJ?B
Ar:-.
y miracv-
d to Jose a
Kaffir
st
Mmm
mm
Ks?*
.ft**
v;.A
Sfcii
ptSji
a®
rhosfcrinei
any invalid
mother a£i
SfpCople will find it as afl
,'—l64, High Rd., Woo
Vlr. B. C. HUCKS (the
Englishman to“ Loop th§,
•eally must express my ap'
time back I felt myself in
hrought on, no doubt, by the
under all sorts of weather coi
tour last summer. I had an
becoming shaken. I was advised
quite astonished at the beneficial __
the first few doses. 1 am now feelih
and ready to start upon a season's flyinfmat promises to
considerable more arduous than the lasf."— ll6, Piccadill
London. Itnglohd
In all
■) there
her as
jg dreary
weather.
order , and
ity as my
Eng.
At the hands of any Chemist this is what you should obtain
PHOSFERINE is a World-wide Remedy for
Indigestion
Anaemia
Insomnia
Lassitude
Debility
Neuralgia
Lots of Appetite
All Nerve Troubles
Just 5 to 10 drops of this golden remedy in a wineglass of water.
The original and Genuine PHOSFERINE is in buff packages, and be particular to
notice th ,t iis spelt P-H-O-S-F-E-R-I-N-E. Price—l/, 2/6 & 4/6. If you find any diffi-
culty in obtaining supplies send Postal Note to Ashton & Parsons. 408 Collins St. Melb.
m
Miles
Cheaper
and
Australian
Barnet Glass Rubber feltd.
All States & New Zealand.
&
6
£
<
m
%
laoo2
3
Alcock
and
Pierce’s
Fishing Tackle
Is just as good as
“AP” celebrated
Guns & Cartridges
Get Preliminary List now, so as to
get your Tackle into shape ready
for the Season.
This Department is in charge of one of
the most experienced anglers in Victoria,
and any information you want, write to
" Angling Department,”
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
318 Little Collins St. Melbourne
Missing: Friends.
WILLIAM SUTHERLAND, left Edin-
burgh for Sydney in 1889, afterwards
went to Broken Hill, and later to Kalgoorlie.
His father is still living at Melvich, Suther-
landshire. Please write any information to
Bulletin Office, Sydney, N.S.W.
ICY-HOT
Bottles
Keep Hot Things Hot 24 Hours
Or Cold Things Cold 3 Days
Icy-Hot
Bottles
riOT or cold
■“drinks when
needed, while up-
eoun try-hunting,
motoring, picnic-
ing; while in
town - for early
morning shaving
water, coffee, hur-
ried meals. Keep
baby’s milk at
right temperature,
or invalid’s food
hot or cold all
night, without
heat, ice or bother
of preparation.
Icy-Hot
Jars
ICY-HOTBottles.forwater. tea, milk, soup,
etc. Pints, 5/6 up, Quarts, 11/—up. Nickel
plated. Pints, 8/6up; Quarts. 15/—up. ICY-
HOT Carafe takes place of unsanitary water
bottle. Quarts, 22/ up, with specially pro-
tected neck. 30/—up. ICY : HOT Jars for
hot stews, vegetables, frozen ice cream. Can
also be used for beverages. Nickel plated.
Pin ts,l5 /—up,Quarts,2B/6 up. Also ICY-HOT
Lunch Kits. Inner glass bottle within metal
casing protected against
breakage, easily sterilized
and cheaply replaced if
broken. Liquids touch only
glass—absolutely sanitary.
MADE IN THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA FROM
AMERICAN MATERIALS
Look for name ICY-HOT
on bottom. If your dealer
does not stock it, we mail
direct, prepaid, on receipt
of price.
Send for Catalogue No. 159
Dealers are invited to
write for special terms.
The ‘ICY-HOT’ Bottle Co.
Factory: Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Icy-Hot Carafe
Quart, 3-Pint,
4-Pint. 3-Quart
m
MALTA
>'o
AN
RAy
4AGt^
SAN FRANCISCO.
THE COSMAR,
HIGH-CLASS Family Accommodation. Every
comfort and convenience. Centrally located.
Cars pass door. JlecQinmpnded by Messrs. Fricke
and Brindle, of Wplbwine- Make Reservations
now. Rooms, with 111**1*1 IP/- a day.
Mr|, W. P IiAMMERLY, Proprietor.
1534
SUTTER
STREET
Business, Robbery, etc.
"Binnacle” The local shellback is looking
forward with interest to the expected arrival
at Port Jackson of the Danish oil-power
vessel, Annam (5300 tons). She has four
masts, no funnels, an engine of the Diesel
type, and is the pioneer of her species in
Australian waters. She represents the
first move made by a big Danish co. to grab
the Australian trade done of late by the two
big German steamship lines.
# # * *
"F.C.” : Most people are under the impres-
sion that the United States are doing mighty
well out of the war. Nothing of the sort!
Their best markets are absolutely shut. For
instance, they cut annually 75,000,000 feet
of timber, of which no less than 60,000,000
feet go to European ports. This industry is
temporarily dead. The case of cotton is as
bad. Nobody will take it just now, and in
the Southern States there are £120,000,000
worth stored awaiting purchasers. Also
Sam owes outsiders such a pot of money—
£6oo,ooo,ooo to England alone—that the
suspension of his commerce and the closing
of European stock exchanges means financial
perdition. At the end of September Chicago
alone had an official record of 100.000
unemployed, and other big cities numbered
almost as many.
* * * *
Justice Hood (Vic.) has given a decision
which fills the life of the bottle-oh with barb-
wire entanglements and broken glass. A
bottle-manufacturing co. sued a marine store
for a declaration that defendant could not
hold or deal in plaintiff’s bottles without
plaintiff’s consent, and for damages. The
Judge said he was obliged to give plaintiff
the injunction-, but he cut down the damages
to Is. This establishes the bottle as the
property of the co. with the trade-mark
blown into it for ever and ever. On this
principle, if sardine tins, suddenly became
worth collecting, a proprietary would be
discovered in all the old tins on the thou-
sands of corporation-tips in Australia, and
the many ancient Pongs who collect them
to extract the tin and the solder would be
in a similar position to that of the Mel-
bourne bottle-oh who has just been smitten
by Costs. By the way, to whom does a
paper belong after you have sucked the
news out of it?
* * * *
Brother Chinn stepped into public notice
again the other day when he appeared before
the Inter-State Commission to urge a higher
duty on a German substance used in welding
rails. J3hinn claims to have discovered a
substitute which is better and cheaper, but
he wants the duty in order to combat the
prejudice in favor of imported goods. Inci-
dentally, he declared that the Victorian
Railways refused offhand to give his pre-
paration a trial, and if that is so it. shows
that there are still people in Australia who
will purchase enemy’s goods on the ground
that the enemv is the only person with any
brains.
* ' * * *
"Croson”: One result of the drought in
Victoria is a scarcity of eggs and the
untimely decease of many respectable fowls.
The matter was explained at a recent meet-
ing of a poultry-breeders’ society, when
several members cursed certain parties for
adulterating bran with sawdust, in one case
tn the extent of 30 per cent. The fowl-
growers seemed to hold a queer opinion that
the practice was immoral as well as illegal,
but they were obviously not acquainted with
the ways of commerce. As soon as bran
reaches 18d. per bushel it becomes a "cus-
tom of the trade” to —er —dilute it with saw-
dust, just as the chaff merchant dilutes his
goods with water, salt, chopped string or any
passable imitation. It is also obvious that
no ordinary fowl could hope to digest un-
adulterated bran when it is at the unchris-
tian price of lSd.; it would be too rich and
full-bodied. The mistake the bran merchants
make is in using sawdust from soft, im-
ported woods, Orevon pine, Californian red
pine and the like. The Australian fowl, being a
tough bird, thrives well on sawdust from
the native hardwoods —red gum and yellow
box especially—but grows pasty and anaemic
on the imported tripe. There is the slight
drawback that a gum diet imparts a flavor
of eucalyptus to the eggs, but one soon gets
accustomed to that, and, anyhow, the medical
profession recommends eucalyptus in cases
of asthma, chronic bronchitis, etc. All the
poultry breeders have to do is feo change the
brand of sawdust. Also, there would be less
said about it if they did the adulterating
themselves.
Britain is beinsr hit by Germany in th
matter of aniline dyes. And yet they were
first invented in England—by Perkin and
Hoffman. As usual in that casual land,
there was no attempt to secure the P r °™P
benefit of the discovery beyond the granting
of patent rights, which were no real Protec-
tion. The process was first pirated in
France, but somehow the French did not
succeed with it, and the Germans eventually
established a monopoly. For years the ger-
man dye-makers have been importing nom
Britain immense quantities of coal tar and
other waste products of gasworks, and these
and coal-oil are now being left on the hands
of their helpless British producers.
• * * *
“E.V.E.”: Re par. (B. 3/12/’l4) that
Maoriland is producing and using its own
motor-spirit. There is no reason why'
tralia should not do the same—even before
our oil wells are found. We distil from
our crude coal-tar many hundreds ot thou-
sands of gallons for our roads, and tne
quantity is increasing each year; yet we
allow the light oils contained therein to go
to waste. By our old-fashioned methods ot
producing coke a still greater wastage ot
these products results. The refined benzine
thus lost is first-class stuff, and a gallon
will drive a motor from 30 to 50 per cent,
farther than the same quantity of U.». spirit.
This benzine is what the Germans are using.
England is beginning to use it too, so much
so’ that Rockefeller’s extract has been reduced
a penny a gallon. Bye-products of these lost
oils are phenol and cresylic acids, valuable
as disinfectants and for other purposes.
They are free under the new tariff, but should
be protected, for they can be easily manufac-
tured, and the cost of the plant would not
be great.
* * * *
“The Undertaker”: And you’d be a
gloomy ghoul, too, if you loved Austra-
lia and were in this business. Cothn-
timber— mostly imported. _ Fabric linings,
trimmings, and coverings all foreign.
Nameplates, handles and embellishments—
German, and nothing else. Tombstones
Italian, when there’s any money to be s»ent
on them. The only items Australia con-
tributes to the whole business are tne
corpse and the cavity. They’re both neces-
sary, but not much good to Australian
industry. _ *
* *
“T. 0.1.”: Trades-signs have, apparently,
had their day; but a few of old Sydney
still kept in memory. At Lublin s hatter s
shop, in George-street, was a cocked Hat
made of tin. It was the ambition of Sydney
youths to get this down on Saturday nights
and place it upon the head of Governor
Bourke in the Domain. At the old Crown
and Kettle, in Barrack-street, a huge iron
kettle hung over the main door. At another
hatter’s a big “bell-topper” was used as a
lamp. At the corner of Bridge-street,
Mathews, a mathematical instrument maker,
had a naval officer “taking the sun.” At
the Ilaymarket was a pub with the sign of
a beehive, and underneath the following
lines: —
Within this hive we're all alive;
Good liquor makes us funny ;
If you be dry, step in and try
The flavor of our honey.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: Perhaps The Bulletin’s pri-
vate soothsayer understands the inner
mysteries of the cock-eye. I don’t. ihe
impression 1 had was that, to encounter a
person with a corkscrew eye-action was to be
assured of abominable ill-luck in any venture
in which you might be about to engage ; but I
have lived and learnt that there are circum-
stances in which the vision of the optic with
the eccentric action becomes a guarantee of
great good fortune. The red-headed boy
told me about it. I had noticed him wait-
ing on the corner every Saturday morning
till a particular car-load of Yiddish book-
makers motored past. The car was slowed
un, the sports threw pennies at Coppertop,
and then passed on, jubilating Jewishlv.
Last Saturday I waylaid Coppertop.
“What’s all this about?” I asked. “Orl
what?” asked Coppertop. “This Saturday
morning business with the clique in the car.'”’
said I. “Oh,” replied Coppertop, “that’s me
cross-eye.” He certainly was cross-eyed.
“But I don’t understand,” I said. “It’s fer
luck.” replied Coppertop. “Tlmse blokes
pays me t’ stand on the cornel* every Satur-
dee mornin’, ’n’ look at ’em when they’re
goin’ t’ the races.” “Well, I’m jammed!”
said I. “Yes,” said Coppertop. “If I could
get pushes fer Mondays and Wednesdays I’d
be all right. Know anyone wants t’ hire a
cock-eye, mister?” I don’t. Do you?
A gloomy commentary on the condition of
the English theatre is the fact that Gladys
Cooper, a charming London comedienne, is
“explaining beauty secrets'’ in an advt..
“written at the request of the manufacturers
of’ a brand of soap.
CHANT OF (PURELY TEMPORARY) HATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Never a touch of a German hand;
Never a bob to a German band;
Never again— - excuse the tear
The ice-cold tang of a Munich beer.
Shrouds and hearses and coffin-plates
Fall, like a thousand bricks in crates,
On him who cravenly abates
So much as one of our splendid Hates.
Never another blut-wurst bought.
Perish the low, pro-German thought
Of using boots or clothes or dyes
That come from where they breed the spies.
Buffets and kicks and groans for him,
And words of scorn and glances grim,
And threats of hurt to life and limb,
Who lets our present Hate grow dim.
Never a European trip
In any sort of German ship,
Our goods shall lie and rot unsold
Ere they shall know a German hold.
Anguish and misery descend
On those who help, or give or lend
To Teuton dogs who seek to rend
Our native land —which God defend 1
(Nota Bene:
All this applies, of course, so long
As German men and ships are strong
Enough all trade with us to bar
By keeping up the present war.
When once the import game restarts
We will abandon Venom's darts,
Like mummers who hav-: played their parts,
And take the Germans to our hearts.)
N.S.W.
FREE-TRADE FEREVVER.
LINES TO A GALLANT DEBTOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
So you go off to take your chance, while I
Subside into my chair ;
Whate’er you do where shells and bullets fly
I’ll'read with standing hair.
While Red Adventure calls you, I must stay
To write the same old things,
And buy wild rags to find out ev’ry day
What songs the bullet sings.
I’ll run to schedule on my little round,
And lead the sheltered life;
Each Sunday I will make a warlike sound
Whetting the carving-knife.
And when the crashing volleys rend the air
(I’ve read that volleys crash),
Oh, picture me at peace in my own chair
Serving the fragrant hash.
Last Verse (written before he had borrowed the
money).
For me the little round that is so dear ;
For you the Berlin track;
But we will wait your cheery hail to hear—•
“Hallo! You see, I’m back!”
Last Verse (amended after he had sailed without
repaying the loan).
For me the drudging round of earn and spend—
For you the warlike Spree;
Oh, ere you fall, send back, send back, my friend,
The cash you got from me!
N.S.W.
FORLORN HOPE.


IS
msmmm
m
m.
\>
m
m
~r-
s
SB
SB
■::::
m.
m
■ f.
#
a
m
*
1
:-v
W
■::::
W////:
■::/■:////.
WM;
W:
inn
‘•l'l'X'X’Xv /
w/OWm
it:
<7,
WO
GOOD?
To feel good it is necessary to feel well. When the liver and
bowels do not act life is a failure. & v
Chamberlain’s Tablets wake these drowsy organs like the sun
wakes the earth and the whole body laughs.
If you lack energy, don’t relish your food, feel dull and consti-
pated, all you need is a dose of Chamberlain’s Tablets.
They will make you feel like a new man, clear the brain and
give you a healthy appetite.
Why—you can get more happiness than you ever dreamed of
out of an eighteenpenny box of
CnAMBEBLAINSTABLETS
Jot- the Stomach Livep.
A Harn)leSS
NEAPACHE
REMEPY!
THE HONEST CHEMIST
SAYS : — u I have my own prepara-
tions and several others for similar
purposes, but I know that nothing
equals Kephaldol , and to be perfectly
honest I feel I must recommend it .”
(MANUFACTURED IN AUSTRALIA.)
Kephaldol, the new-found remedy for
pain, is the product of one of the Conti-
nent’s most famous specialists.
Kephaldol is sure, quick-acting and
kills pain without the risk of any harm
to those who use it. Unlike other
remedies used for HEADACHE, NEI-
RALGIA, NEURITIS, etc., Kephaldol
does not affect or depress the heart
action. It is safe to use in large or
small doses. Doctors by the hundreds
have reported it to be unequalled for
the above troubles as well as for Rheu-
matism, Sciatica, Painful Menstruation
and nerve pains generally.
W"" .
np
vmm
0 2
■m
A 3 o
wA.'ia'/as&SB
m
l ;nr
~ :
tar-
A ACC MAT EACH TABLET CONTAINS 34'LPHENAC£Tl*
rriltablets (scnm **<s
EFFECT 1 ~ ■
■l
Srohr)
the
HEART
PRICE I*6 8t 3 r 6
&
w f
KEPHALD
A'Z '
SEE WHAT BRITISH DOCTORS SAY:
“I have found Kephaldol gives excellent re-
sults in cases of obstinate Headache hitherto
unaffected by any drug.”
—Dr. C. E. O’Connor, Birmingham.
‘‘l have been trying Kephaldol on a patient
suffering from Neuritis, with very satisfactory
results, and wish to continue the treatment.”
—Dr. J. D. Williams, Cardiff.
‘‘We are finding your Kephaldol useful in
Rheumatic Headache and Neuralgia.”
—Dr. W. H. Savory, Ashford.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers in tubes,
small size 1/6, large size, 3/6. The large size, contains
three times the quantity of the smaller.
WOF
KEPHALDOI is Guaranteed under
the Pure Food Laws of N.S.W., 1908.
If any difficulty in procuring locally, a tube will
be sent post free direct by the Manufacturers upon
receipt of postal note to value of tube desired. [Boo4£
KEPHALDOL CO., 30 Ash St., Sydney.


20/-
25/-
Lady's csoud Silver
Open-face Keyless
Watch, full jewelled,
accurate, 20/- Extra
quality, 25/-, 30/-
Solid Gold, 50/-, 60/-
18ct. Gold
Bing, set pure
double-cut Dia-
monds, £lO.
18ct. Gold
King, set 4 Dia-
monds and Red or
Blue Stones, £2.
9ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls and
Peridot, Amethyst or Turquoise,
25/-
30/-
»/-
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless Lever Watch, non mag-
netic, full jewelled, patent time spring,
compensation balance, 30/- Extra
jewejled, 33/-, 40/- Gold Cased,
84/-. Solid Gold, £7/10/-
15ct. Gold Brooch, set pure double-
cut Diamonds, £B/10/-
9ct. Gold Links,
richly engraved, 20/-
15ct. Gold, 40/-
18ct. Gold
Ring, set Dia-
monds, £3/10/-
Diamonds and
Rubies or Sap-
phires, £2/10/-
9ct. Gold ]N ecklace,
Aquamarines, Tourmalines
Peridots, 25/-
15ct. Gold, 40/»
set
or
9ct. Gold Sover-
eign Purse, richly
engraved, £2/12/6.
Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full jewelled, £4.
15ct. Gold,. £7/10/-
Jewellery Gifts
We have such a delightful selection in our
Catalog and Gift Book. Send for copies.
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
9ct. Gold, Half-round Plain Padlock
Bracelet, Safety Chain attached, 40/-
15ct. Gold, £3/10/-
o
A
v
r
Gfent.’s Military vVatch, Nickel or
Sunmetal Case, high-grade Lever movement, 20 /-
25/-, 30/-. Silver, 40/-, 50/- 20 years
guaranteed Rolled Gold Case, £3/10/-
15ct.
Gold Brooch, set Diamonds
and Rubies, £7/10/-
18ct. Gold
Diamond
Cluster
Ring, £lO.
S>ct. Gold Links,
any initials engraved,
20/-
9ct. Gold Pen-
dant, set Garnets
or Amethysts, 22/6.
9ct. Gold
Locket richly
engraved, 25/-
A. SAUNDERS,
807-817 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
251-
301-
lady’s Solid Silver
Hunting Keyless
Watch, l-plate, full
jewelled, patent adjusted
balance, 25/- Extra
jewelled, 30/-, 40/-
Solid Gold, £3/10/-,
£4.
18ct. Gold
Gipsy Ring,
set Diamonds,
£5/10/-
18ct, Gold
Cluster Ring,
set pure double-cut
Diamonds,
£22/10/-
9ct. G<j>ld Spray Brooch,
set Pearls aorl Turquoise, 8/6.
201 -
25/-
Gent.’s Nickel Noh-mag-
netic Keyless Kever, full
jewelled, patent balance, non-mag-
netic time spring, dust- and water-
proof eases, 20/- Higher grades,
25/-, 30/-. Our Special, 12/6,
15/-
New Health & New Life for the Weak & Ailing
Get well the ‘‘Wincarnis’’ way —the quick,
sure, safe way to new health. QUICK
because the benefit begins from the first
wineglassful. SURE because it has given
new life to countless thousands of sufferers.
SAFE because it contains no drugs as do
otlter Wine Tonics. ‘‘Wincarnis” (the
Wine of Life) is a Tonic, a Restorative,
a Blood-maker and a Nerve Food —all
contained in one clear delicious beverage.
Are you Run-down ?
Do you feel listless, low-spirited and weary of
everything? Do you find your work irksome and
your recreation exhausting? If so, you are “Run-
down” and “Out-of-sorts.” But a few doses of
“Wincarnis” will quickly put you right. Take
a wineglassful of “Wincarnis” in the middle of
the morning, and another the last thing at night.
You will be delighted with the new vigor and new
vitality it will give you.
Are you Anaemic ?
Is vour face white? Are your lips and gums
bloodless? Are your eyes dull? Does your heart
palpitate? If so, you need “Wincarnis” to fill
your veins with new, rich red blood. Take
“Wincarnis” three times a day.
You will feel better from even
the first wineglassful— you
will feel the new, rich blood
dancing through your veins.
m
m
t
Wrnli
Mother:—" Here, dear, drink this
glass of • Wincarnis.*
It will put new life
into you.**
f
I
rt
r*
u The Wive of Life"
Are you “Nervy”?
Do yon “jump” at a sudden sound? Do you feel
irritable? Are you nervous? Do you get head-
aches,? Do you have neuralgia? Do you suffer
from nervous debility? That is because your
nerves want “toning up.” You need a short
course of “Wincarnis.” “Wincarnis” is a power-
ful nerve builder, ■ which acts directly upon the
nerve centres, and thus transmits new vigor and
new life to the nerves all over the body.
Are you Weak?
Do you feel incapable of exertion? Does your
work exhaust you? Do you feel intensely weary
in all your limbs? If so, take “Wincarnis” three
times a day, and it will give you new strength and
new vigor. And each day more strength and
more vigor, until, step by step, it rebuilds your
weakened constitution and recreates your lost
vitality.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
To-day is the best day to begin to get well. Buy
a bottle of “Wincarnis” from your Wine Merchant,
or Licensed Chemist or Grocer, and take advant-
age of the new health and new life “Wincarnis”
offers you.
3ut be sure you get “Winearnis”
—don’t waste your money and
risk your health by accepting a
substitute.
“Winearnis” is prepared only by
Coleman & Co., Ltd., of Norwich,
England. Australasian Depot: Fas-
sett & Johnson, 5-7 Barrack Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.


is All-year Joy when
the Gift is a KODAK.
m
I
*/rn
o
,v l ?
n
3
m
1 A^«.
✓ '
. - v' 1
aA
,#l ,M
\ >* -i
nt*t(
lilt
tin,
\sV
"v n 'iq.
• • * T • •<*•
A Kodak is so light, compact, handy and so wonderfully simple
to operate that anyone who gets a Kodak can start right away
and make good pictures of all the p f easures of Christmas Day
and of all the days that follow.
Whether it be for a schoolboy or schoolgirl, or the most sedate of
grown-ups, there's always a fascination in picture-taking the
Kodak way,'
A Kodak is sure to be appreciated, not only at the moment, but
throughout the whole year, and for many years to come.
There are Kodaks from 30/- to 4L15/2/-
Get the latest Kodak Catalogue.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 Georgo Street.
MELBOURNE: “The Block,” 281 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 37 Bundle Street.
BRISBANE: 250-252 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA: Riilliven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON: Denham Street.
BROKEN HILL: 340 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dixon Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: 3 Lome Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: 70 Stuart Street.
A holiday without a Kodak is a holiday wasted.
C
O o
The STATION OWNER
always uses
It aids him in a hundred ways —for the cattle, for the sheep,
he finds Hycol indispensable. As a wash, as a preventive oi
mange in the pens, the stalls, stables, everywhere, Hycol is the
“Vet” always to hand, and this accounts for its immense popularity
in the back blocks, where it is a friend indeed. Hycol should also be
used in the Farm House to prevent disease. Its wonderful properties
promote a perfect state of sanitation because it destroys all germ life.
Hycol is NON-POISONOUS, NON-IRRITANT, and is TWENTY TIMES
3TRONGER as a germ-killer than Carbolic Acid.
Directions for use on every package.
Of all High=class Chemists and Storekeepers. In Bottles or Drums.
For further particulars apply to H. A. REEVES, G.P.O. Box 2499, Sydney, N.S.W.


Hanking, I’itblic Companies, Jfcc.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office : 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
Security and Satisfactory
Interest
are the leading features of this Institution.
Deposits received from 1/- upwards.
Interest paid at 31% on first £2OO, and 3%
on excess to £5OO.
The Bank has 130 Branches and over 600
Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices.
DEPOSITS Guaranteed by the Government.
By order of the Commissioners.
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £385,000.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
Hon. ROBERT PHILP, M.L.A. ;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED.. .. .. .. £1,198,679
PAID-UP (30th June, 1914) .. £1,195,591
RESERVE FUND £45,000
HEAD OFFICE: George* King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 2 King William Street, E C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon,
Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank N.
Yarwood, Esq.; Herbert R. Lysagtit, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . . . . . 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 166,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.;
James Love, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,730,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. . . 2,000,000 0 0
£5,730,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., and W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton: N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING.
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £ifooo,ooo
Preference Shares .. .. .. 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £ l,pC<),'ooo) Paid-
VP .. 500,000
. Uncalled Capital .. . . .. 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,601,608
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Colonial ||)utual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOB
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office fob New South Wades:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon, Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
> ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA EN GLAND.
ORMONDE
ORAMA
ORVIETO
OSTERI.EY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORON'J'ES
OMR AII
fitted with Wireless
• Geared Turbine
• Triple-Screw. .
• Twin-Screw . .
15,000 Regd. Tons.
13,000 „
12.130
12,129
12,124
12.077
12,036
9,023
8,282
Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
? llS ii.i S i me X?‘ Cabines-de-hixe; Staterooms, with
bedliteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric J.ifts and Laundries.
nri®r»i",L e^ er - v f<,l 'tnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Lta.,
l2 Martin Place, Sydney.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RARA-
TONGA and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
THROUGH BOOKINGS any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE, in connection
with all United States and Canadian
Railways. i
*The Finest and largest steamer trading between
Sydney and San Francisco.
Panama Pacific Exhibition opens at San Francisco
February, 1915.
Around Pacific Tours, returning from Vancouver
by Canadian-Australasian Koyal Mail Line or via
Japan and China.
Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street. Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
Sailings as follows (circumstapcss permittitife^:—
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
‘CAIRNS
(‘Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports). >
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports) J
SOUTH.
PEREGRINE (3500 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Dee. 26.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Dec. 30.
Leaves Sydney Jan. 2.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Jan. 6.
Leaves Sydney Jan. 9.
| SOUTH.
| BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Jan. 2.
QUEENSLAND COASTAL MAIL STEAMERS.
(Under contract with Commonwealth Government.)
s.s. COOMA (4000 tons) leave's Brisbane every Friday
at 10 a.m. fo- TOWNSVILLE, calling at GLAD-
STONE. FLAT TOP and BOWEN, connecting at
TOWNSVILLE with t.s.s. MOURILYAN for ports as
far as COOKTOWN.
Full. Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
UNDER NEUTRAL FLAG
TO
AMERICA and ENGLAND.
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers, 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
SONOMA . .. j Jan. 16 | Mar. 13 | May 8 I July 3
VENTURA .. j Feb. 13 j April 10 j June 5 j July 31
The San Francisco Panama Exposition is open
February-December, 1915. Tickets issued to London
via San. Francisco and back by any Suez Line.
Tel'. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. , Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
1 s
To PAPUA and PACIFIC ISLES
To Papua.
To Solomon Islands.
To the New Hebrides.
SEND FOR PARTICULARS OF FARES AND SAILINGS TO
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
£3,500,000
£2,500,000
£3,500,000
£9,500.000
DIRECTORS
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.
President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, Q.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.Ltfc.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
AUDITORS: —William Harrington Palmer, Esq. Shepbeard Edgccliff Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George St.. Sydney. London Office 29 ThreadneeJie St., EC.
347 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the world
J RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Heaithj and Delightful Climate, Enchanting: Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars,
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, Jf.S.W. A. HESTON, Local Director.
Commonwealth
i
lIEAO OEFICE
A3HaAS
mjmjsnf.ojjUHgj:
tea'll General Banking Business P A B (l S£ l i
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
Cable remittances made to ami drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and collected
Letters of credit issued to any parto the world, bills negotiated or forwarded for collection Banking ami
Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth, United Kingdom and abroad
Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities 0
Saving's Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at
Deposits
from
1/- to £3OO
_ _ _ _ Post Offices
2000 in Australia
and Papua
Interest at « 0 /
per annum <S/ 0
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
„ JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. DENIS >N MILLER, Governor.
DRUIDS’ PATRIOTIC FUND ART UNION
Under the Patronage of the Hon. R. W. RICHARDS, Lord Mayor of Sydney.
TOTAL VALUE OF PRIZES, £lOOO.
FIRST PRIZE, VALUE £6OO. SECOND PRIZE, VALUE £lOO.
NETT PROCEEDS IN AID OF THE LORD MAYOR'S PATRIOTIC FUND.
On~ receipt of Postal Note, Post Office Order, or Stamps for 1/-, the Secretary will forward Ticket
to any address in Australia.
Do not delay; help those dependent on our soldiers by buying tickets, and have the comforting
satisfaction of knowing that you have contributed to the Patriotic Fund, and assisted a noble cause
The Art Union will be drawn in Public on SATURDAY, FEBRUARY. 13, and results advertised
on 13th, 14th and 15th FEBRUARY. ' - -
TICKETS, ONE SHILLING.
FROM ALL AGENTS, OR DIRECT FROM
Head Office: 715 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
R. A. BARRY, Grand Secretary.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to. and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
T.S.S. WARFLDA (8000
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
- Jan. 16 and Feb. 13.
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steerage Passengers.)
INNAMINOKA, Jan. 2.
j" WOI.LOWKA, Jan.' 16.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUIL.Ii & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALAND, FIJI AND
HONOLULU.
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE.
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND.
OPERATING THE LARGEST, NEWEST AND
FINEST VESSELS TRADING BETWEEN AUS-
TRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
SAILINGS:
*Triplg-Screw Steamer, fitted with Cabins de luxe eii
suite, Bedstead Rooms, Nursery, Laundry, Electric
Lift, t Twin-Screw Steamer.
Panama Pacific Exhibition opens at San Francisco
February. 1915.
AROUND PACIFIC TOURS, returning from San
Francisco by Union S.S. Co.’s Royal Mail Line or
via Japan and China.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., UTI).
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,” "Westralia,”
“lilimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
"Riverina,” “Victoria,”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip -and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the-A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.'s steamers in the Fiji T^ade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP g COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY,
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's ipagnificeot Steamers trade regu-
larlv to: —
TWEED, KICIiMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND , MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
..rsyl to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £ 4 2s. 6d. V
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£545,634 10 .0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,476 10 . 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 79,500 - 0 <.O
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. '
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
Londcn Office: 31 Budge Row, Canncn Street, London,
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.


Abbey Shoes
Men who like character and in-
dividuality in their footwear find
their wants well expressed in
ABBEY SHOES.
The boot illustrated is a smart,
made-to-order style. All-Patent
Derby Bal., Leather-lined.
Price - - - 32/6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage 9d. extra.
WHITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
THE “TRIUMPHATOR”
litmi i
CALCULATING MACHINE
is the greatest TIME-SAVING, BHAIN-SAVING
and MONEY-SAVING device that lias ever been
introduced to the Office World.
The only machine that always shows you the
actual figures you are working with.
Illustrated Catalogue on application.
A. P. Greenfield § Co. Ltd.
’
'T
BE A MANLY MAN
Grow a moustache
and make the most
of your appearance.
Capillarine will help
you—sure in results
—safe in application.
Send for a Jar—lo/6 post free.
Craig & Aitkera
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established Over SO Years.
IN USING
you not only Season
but Strengthen all
the Food.
liiiiiaiH
your teeth should look
better than they do
\jcAßßoLici7
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert &■ Co., Manchester, Eng.
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘AUAI3IS’
Egyptian Henna before all other* ; it is the best ano
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabia” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive v'ui. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Arrlley on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia-
Hotels. <£e.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria-
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From IG/« per day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is tile most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
lIOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager.
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
The GRAND HOTEL
WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND.
WELLINGTON’S LEADING HOTEL.
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT.
TARIFF FROM 12/6 PER DAY.
E. L. CHAFFEY, Proprietor.
MELBA.
CARUSO.
PADEREWSKI.
His Master’s Voice
Gramophones
Q
Prices from £5/12 6 to £6O.
... as ...
CHRISTMAS GIFTS.
These famous instruments are ever ready to
entertain you at home with all the world s
greatest artists —Caruso, Melba, Paderewski
and scores of others equally famous.
Do not waste your money on a trumpery
machine that will soon become useless—buy
an “His Master’s Voice” Gramophone that
will last a whole lifetime. They are made
in England.
Instrument Catalogue,
Record Lists and name of
nearest accredited dealer
on request.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
His Masters vfo»c/r
Hilt
HAITEPMUK
,/rr AMTS IKVAt'^.
S&MNDTR*VII
CC '**CORMUK
maltiTp ****
c
MADE IN A MOMENT!
_ , , . . , n ±. Kniiine-') and vou have a delicious, invigorating Food Drink
known The un, q „e process oi
makes it germ-irec. Sample will be sent on receipt of 2d. m stamps
to Hutchinson & Co., 26, Jamieson Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
INSTANTLY
PREPARED
Macmillan’s
Books on the
EUROPEAN
CRISIS.
The prices in this list are these at which the
various boohs are published in London. Ihe
prices in parentheses are those at which the
books are supplied by retail booksellers in Vic-
toria, New So-ftVli Wales and South Austialia.
I‘oslaye is extra, at the rale of 2d. per pound
within the Australian Commonwealth.
MILITARY TEXT-BOOKS.
THE PRINCIPLES OF WAR HIS-
TORICALLY ILLUSTRATED.
Vol. I. By Major-General E. A.
ALTHAM, C. 8., C.M.G. With an
Introduction by General SirH()IvACL
L. SMITH-DORRIEN. G.G.8.,
D. 5.0., etc. With a separate volume otj
maps, Bvo. 10s. 6d. net. (12s. 6d.)
MODERN ARTILLERY IN THE
FIELD. A Description of the Artil-
lery of the Field Army, and the
Principles and Methods of *ts_Eni"
ployment. By Colonel H. A. BLTII-
ELL, R.F.A. With 14 Plates and
126 Illustrations in the text. 8vo.;
7s. 6d. net. (95.)
OUR CAVALRY. By Major-General
M. F. RIMINGTON, C.V.0., C.B
With S diagrams. Bvo. ss. net (65.)
*** A Fu I List of Macmillan’s Military Text-books
will be sent post free on application.
HISTORY OF TiE BRITISH
ARMY. By the Hon. J. W. FOR-;
TESQUE. With Maps and Plans. :
Yols. I. and 11. 18s. net. (225.) each.,
Vol. 111. 18s. net. (225.) ;
Yol. IV. In two Parts, and a separ-
ate volume of Maps. 42s.net. (oOs.),
Yol. V. 18s. net (225. l ;
Vol. VI. 18s. net. (225.)
Vol. VII. With a separate volume oh
Maps. 21s. net. (255.)
Vol. VIII. 1810-1812. [Shortly.
AIRCRAFT IN WAR~ By J. M~-
SPAIGHT, LL.D., Author of War.
Rights on Land.” Bvo. 6s. net. (t s. bd.);
Tub Daily Telegraph. —“This succinct and]
business-like volume.”
ENGLAND AND GERMANY. By
AUSTIN HARRISON. Crown Bvo.
2s. 6d. net. (35.) [Published 1907.
Daily News. —“Mr. Harrison’s work may be
recommended for much clever observation of
Germany’s present conditions. The chapters
on ‘Social Democracy,’ ‘German Materialism
and ‘German State Economy’ are full of inter-
esting and suggestive matter.”
HISTORY OF GERMAN CIVILISA-
TION. By ERNST RICHARD,
Ph.D. Extra Crown Bvo. Bs. 6d.
net. (10s.)
Dr. Richard’s purpose is to tell the simple
story of the development of the German people.
The volume is divided into five books, entitled
respectively Germanic Ancestry—Wanderin-s;
The Creation of the Fatherland 600-14001 ,
Rise and Fall of the German Nation, 1400-
1650 : Regeneration; The Nineteenth Century ,
The New Empire.
PAMPHLETS ON THE WAR.
WHY BRITAIN IS AT WAR. The
Causes and the Issues set out, in brief
form, from the Diplomatic Corres-
pondence and Speeches of Ministers.
By Sir EDWARD COOK. Bvo.
Sewed, 2d.
HOW BRITAIN STROVE FOR
PEACE. A Record of Anglo-Ger-
man Negotiations, 1898-1914, told
from authoritative sources. By Sir
EDWARD COOK. Bvo, Sewed, 2d.
NEUTRAL NATIONS AND THE
WAR. By JAMES BRYCE (Vis-
count Brvce). Formerly Ambassador
to the United States. Bvo. Sewed, 2d.
OUR RUSSIAN ALLY. By Sir
DONALD MACKENZIE WAL-
LACE, K.C.1.E., K.C.V.O. Bvo.
Sewed, 2d.
WHY INDIA IS HEART AND SOUL
WITH GREAT BRITAIN. By
BHUPENDRA-NATH BASU, ex-
Member of the Imperial Legislative
Council in India. Bvo. Sewed, Id.
THE MEANING OF THE WAR. For
Labor —Freedom —Country. By
FREDERIC HARRISON. Bvo.
Sewed, Id.
MODERN GERMANY AND THE
MODERN WORLD. By M. E.
SADLER- Svo. Sewed, 2d.
THE CASE OF BELGIUM IN THE
PRESENT WAR. An Account of
the Violation of the Neutrality of Bel-
gium, and of the Laws of War on Bel-
gian Territory. Bvo. Sewed, Is.
net. (Is. 3d.)
“ROUND TABLE” PAMPHLETS.
THE WAR IN EUROPE. Origins:
(1) in Austro-Hungarian Politics;
(2) in the Aims of Modern Germany
The Critical Fortnight —Ultimate
Issues. (Reprinted from The Round
Table.) Svo. Sewed, 3d.
GERMANY AND THE PRUSSIAN
SPIRIT. German Idealism —lhe
Prussian Autocracy —The Strong
Wine of Victory—Bismarck s Legacy
—Bureaucracy and Militarism—The
Religion of War—l9l4. (Reprinted
from The Round Table.) Bvo.
Sewed, 6d.
THE AUSTRO-SERVIAN DISPUTE.
Reprinted from The Round Table.
I. The Assassination of the Archduke.
11. The Crises of 1908 and 1912.
111. The Race Issue. IV. The Austro-
Hungarian Ultimatum; and a Map
of the Racial and National Bound-
aries in Central Europe. Svo. Sewed,
MACMILLAN SCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


GREETINGS!
and
A HAPPY
NEW YEAR
in one of
FINNEY’S
COLUMBIA
Post 17/6 Free
Panamas.
Fine Quality, Newest Shapes.
Finney, Isles 8 Co. Limited
THE BIG BLOCK, BRISBANE.
20 Per Cent. Discount
off Table Plate!
Our experiment of a couple of years ago
of taking the wholesale catalogues of the
great English manufacturers of Electro-
Silver and Solid Silver Goods and deduct-
ing 20 per cent., or 4s. in the £, from
their prices, was of a revolutionary
character, and might have landed us in
heavy loss, but
IT DID NOT,
owing to our great output; and so we
are 1 continuing the discount. It only
gives us a bare commission on many
lines, but commissions count if numer-
ous 1 enough.
Fine Crystal Class, with Green Ornamentation,
Salad Bowl, with very heavily-plated Mount and
Servers 30/ 6
■Less 20% discount 7/3
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd. 9 in Sydney, *
rLAiN figures—strictly oash.' 23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
The Germans again ran amok on civilised warfare
in shelling women and children on the Yorkshire
coast. Only humane and, therefore, eventually
triumphant methods appeal to the progressive races
inspired by King George IV topnotch Scotch.*
BRISBANE’S LEADING HOTEL
The Gresham
is under new management and has
been made right up to date, having all
the most modern improvements.
The Sewerage System has been in-
stalled on an elaborate scale, which
overcomes Brisbane’s greatest menace.
Proprietor,
T. M. AHERN.
IN BANANA LAND
“There is urgent need for retrenchment in
city expenditure. —Brisbane daily (Janu-
ary, 1911,). “Our new city motor-car, in
appointment and fittings, is ahead of that of
the Governor-General.” —Same daily, proudly
(Bee., 1911,).
Passed out the other day, Mrs. Blair-Kerr,
an octogenarian lady well known in ■ South
Queensland. Some 50 years ago she was
being carried in a coffin to the side of an
immigrant ship to be lowered overboard,
when the carpenter, who was assisting as
bearer, slipped and shook the supposed corpse
out of a cataleptic trance. The cursed
Queensland climate then got to work and
abolished the kindly dame in her 83rd year.
By way of compensation for getting his
skull fractured, both jaws bi;oken, three ribs
cracked, the left leg shattered and the right
arm so mangled that it had to be cut off, a
Cloncurry court awarded Alfred Henry
Huddy £2500, and told the Hampden Co. to
pay it. The co. said no miner’s life was
worth £2500, or words to that effect, and
went to the Full Court. The Full Court
said it seemed a lot of money ; on the other
hand, there was an amazing lot of injury
to pay for. By this time the co. seems to
have decided that a man shouldn’t be a
miner unless he was prepared to have a
few limbs and ribs cracked and an ear and
a liver dislocated now and then ; so it went
to the High Court. The High Court was in
Queensland at the time, and wasn’t so High
as it might be ; wherefore, after hearing all
that everybody had to say, it decided that
everybody bad better go to Sydnev and sav
it all over again when the Court was
numerically at its very Highest. Accord-
ingly, two and a half years after the acci-
dent, everybody arrived in Sydney and went
into the business again, and for two days
the Court was deeply interested. Then "it
CHRISTMAS, 1914.
suggested that, notwithstanding the four
judicial hearings, and the vast outlay on
Costs, it might be better if the parties
settled the matter between themselves. In
fact, it gave the parties so strong a bint
that it wanted to be rid of the job that they
went out and agreed, the man with the
patches all over him undertaking to put up
with £l9OO, the Hampden Co. to pay all
costs of all four hearings.
One German centre in South Queensland,
loyal to the backbone, of course, sends away
every few weeks a considerable sum for the
“use and benefit of tliq Swiss poor.”
Curiously, the heart of this community only
began to bleed for the Swiss poor in August.
There has been trouble over cyanide sup-
plies for Northern goldfields; and, though
they are not now likely to run short, the
price threatens to keep from 15 to 20 per
"cent, higher than usual. The trouble raises
afresh the question whether contracts for
German supplies of all kinds should not be
absolutely terminated by special law. More
cyanide comes, as a rule, from Germany
than anywhere else; and British manufac-
turers are not disposed to increase their
plants because they say that, as soon as the
war ends, all the biggest of their now cus-
tomers will automatically have to go back to
their German contracts. The result is not
only that Australia and British manufactur-
4ng expansion is checked, but consumers have
to pay an exorbitant price for current
supplies.
, An Australian Moore Theological College
boy has made good in Ireland —the Bev. I.
Adams, newly appointed Archdeacon of Kil-
dare. He was ordained by Bishop Barker,
of Sydney,' in IS7O, but for some years he
has been precentor of St. Briget’s, in Ivil-
Jdare. He is the first Moore College man
.in orders to get promotion to the Archdia-
conate in Britain.
Bananaland's Prickly Pear Commission’s
belated repoi’t says that the cactus vermin
is not only found all over the world, but
iis also cursed all over the world. All
chemical and mechanical means of eradica-
tion are, practically, failures. The cochineal
insect, the wood rat, the plant bug and the
moth borer will eat the plant, certainly; but
they have no objection to a change of diet.
As Bananaland has a surplus of insect pests
the Commission advises that this means of
eradication be left alone. Foreign-born dis-
eases_ of the plant are given the cold eye
for similar reasons. One Commissioner states
that Bananaland knows more about prickly-
pear eradication than all the rest of the
world, which is a poor look out for Banana-
land. However, there is one moderately
bright spot. Pear is found to be used in
various places for fodder, manure, the man-
ufacture of alcohol, paint, fibre, oxalic acid,
coloring matter, etc. If Bananaland must
eternally entertain the herb there are thus
hopes that it may be of some use to the com-
munity. , ,i
The legal profession in Queensland is going
to the dogs. There was a time not so
long ago when the Attorney-General invari-
ably drew fees from the Department to an
extent exceeding the official salary, or there-
abouts. For the last financial vear he was
content with a modest £5OO. The Bulle-
tin will do the other sharks the justice of
saying that they .scarcely concealed their
disgust.
“Ignotus”: It must be a friend of Den-
ham’s who started the whisper that Archer,
of all men, is to succeed Digby as Premier
and leader of the Liberal party. Consider
Archer’s obtuseness and his respectable
dreariness, and then send out scouts to look
for the lost; intelligence of any party which
would elect/him leader. Of the men in the
present team “Bishop” Barnes (Treasurer)
is inconceivable as leader; Sullivan ( Attor-
ney-General) lacks personality; Blair (Edu-
cation) is' too exuberantly sentimental;
Tolmie (Lands) is mediocre; Paget (Rail-
ways) is fatuously egotistical, whilst White
(Agriculture) is a waste of time. Appel is
the only possible. He is bursting with
geniality, and has a spaciousness, physical,
mental and moral.
When the lid flew off the--pot and the
devils got loose, amongst the damage they
did was the closing down of all the wol-
fram, tungsten and molybdenite shows m
the North. But there is a ray of hope for
the fossickers now, for the British Govern-
ment has sent out saying that it wants
these substances, and the. Mines Depart-
ment has sent up an inspector on a special
and more or less confidential mission of
inquiry. /
The High Court proceedings in the case
of a Cloncurry miner who accepted an offer
of £l9OO for Compensation following a mining
accident is/likely to lead to an agitation
amongst mining cos. for the fixing of a maxi-
mum. In other States a limit is prescribed,
and the insurance companies draw up their
premium rates accordingly. In Queensland
there is no limit to the amount a miner may
obtain ; and in fixing its premiums an acci-
dent insurance co. which takes the full risk
has to allow, for. the fact that h Court might
award a million; if it felt that way. In the
case just before the High Court the miner
received more injuries than one man in a
million could live through, and he got £1900;
and even if that were fixed as the maximum
something substantial would be gained by
the mining cos. In fact, they don’t care very
much what the maximum is, so long as there
is some maximum.
Australia to the Sphinx.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Egypt has been declared a British Protectorate.
— Cable.
“Don’t you worry, Mister Pharaoh,” said
Australia to the Sphinx,
And that image, worn and ancient, woke
with many puzzled winks.
“Don’t you wofry, Mister Pharaoh r ” piped
the Infant with the Gun,
As Time’s visage split asunder, “Dad’s
attending to the Hun,
And I’ve come to play in Egypt, just to see
you’re left alone,
For the Huns have many siege guns and
they’re simply great on stone!
Now you’re fixed like Rheims Cathedral, so
you never could retreat;
But you needn’t worry, Pharaoh, while I’m
camped here at your feet.
A protectorate’s established—No! you
needn’t have a fit!—
A protectorate’s established and —Yes,
Pharaoh! lam It!”
QUEENSLAND.
BILLJIM.


H
HBWlfff
di::^
■
■
■
M
mm
1
1-
m
I
! “V.
m i
:
|
m
i
\v
%
i &
■
II
.<
11
: :
n
m
jrh&tmi
y JSJP
&<f<tcokh %&.
qft\ u £ua*^il||
* #
s* ? - -
illlll
i «j
gag®*
mm.
m
" :
mbMm
m
ll
mggu& ■
i#l mrnmm
llfll
11
Hi
[iff
I
Foaco on towards Mon,
Givon infho Highest Spipit;-
WATSONS N 9 IO


CHRISTMAS SUGGESTIONS
THE beautiful de-
sign and up-to-
da t e usefulness o f
the G.E. “ Uni Set "
appeals to every
woman.
1 he “ Uni Set" is a
complete Electric Cook-
ing Outfit, and enables
a dainty dinner or
Hurry-up bite " to be
prepared at a moment’s
notice. Let us demon-
strate it to you.
■*9
5^
>7
mm
psss
in
£s^
For Mother
. 'ly
Nothing is too good for Mother, so give
her the best of all electrical gifts—a
Uni-Set Combination
Electric Cooking Outfit
which will help convert much of her heavy
housekeeping into light housekeeping.
With this set she can boil vegetables, cereals and
eggs; percolate coffee; brew tea, warm baby’s
milk, fry and prepare all kinds of chafing dish
products. You can buy any one or all of the
various parts of the set at your convenience.
. TT-94A.
THE “Uni Set”
device consists of
an Electric Disc
Stove of graceful lines,
and four cooking utensils
of pleasing appearance
—a double boiler for
cooking cereals, etc.—a
Chafing Dish —a Tea
Samovar —and a Coffee
Percolator. The entire
set is of uniform design
and is attractively
nickelled.
0
“Mazda House,” Cr. AVentworth Avenue and
Qoulburn Street, SYDNEY.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
BRISBANE (Q.): Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.).
Ltd., Edward and Charlotte Streets.
Agents
Cor. Queen and Little Collins Streets,
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
Ams No. 98AT.
Double Seamer.
The Seal
of Safety.
Ams Automatic
Double Seamers.
The Trade Standard.
Progressive Seamers for
Progressive Canners.
Make Your Cans with Ams Machinery
We furnish machines for mak-
ing tin cans of every descrip-
tion, for Sardines, Peas, Fruit,
all Food Products, Spices, Teas,
Coffee, Tobacco, Paint and Oil
Cans.
These machines are automatic throughout, and are fitted with Cover
Feedt, Can Straightener and Plunger, and make a very complete and service-
able Double Seamen. - They are rigid in construction, complete lubricating
system, ease and convenience in operating, plenty of speed, and will do the
work cut out for them. ' The can stands still during the seaming operation
and boy or girl can rdn these double seamers.
Takes all standard sizes including No. 3’s. Out-
put over 50 per minTite. The 988 for gallon cans
from 40 per minute. We are specialists in this
line. It is not a side issue.
We build complete can-making equipmei ts.
Write to us about your intentions. We are in
business to answer questions. Experiment if you
like, but come to Ams for standard.
Send us a sample of what you want to make.
CORRESPONDENCE AND ESTIMATES IN EVERY
LANGUAGE.
MAX AMS MACHINE COMPANY,
MOUNT VERNON, N.Y., U.S.A.
CHARLES M. AMS, President. ;
4
Address us direct or through any EXPORT 3,
COMMISSION HOUSE.
Saitit
m
eaic
Ju& a Drop of
But what a wealth of
Concentrated Power it possesses!
You’ll Travel Faster on this Fine Fuel.
Ask for Booklet —"What about Petrol? ”
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand.
70338


Punctual Men
men to whom minutes mean money and who cultivate habitant
punctuality—this Watch has been built for YOU
For accuracy, dependability, service, strength; • for every
feature which makes a good watch bettei,
The Business Watch
pypols The movement is accurately adjusted has compensa-
tion balance kevless wind —just the movement winch will give
veis of steady faithful service under strenuous conditions
The Case is Oxidised Steel, with good plain, figured dial an
crystal glass. A Watch that you will get as much wear and
service from as if you paid several guineas more for it.
Price
20/-
Post Free.
If vou are thinking of investing in a good timekeeper and the
“Business” Watch is not quite what you need—write for our
special Watch booklet. Gives full information of eveiy wa c
a man can want. It’s free.
STEWART DAWSON’S,
Strand Corner,
412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SIEMENS
“Association”
CABLES
and Flexible Wires
Made at
Woolwich, ENGLAND.
The Quality of our Vulcanised India-rubber
Wires and Cables is guaranteed by the fadl
that they are made in accordance with the
standards of the British Cable Makers’
Association, of which we are members.
large stocks just landed.
Reduced Prices.
Siemens Bros. Dynamo
Works Limited.
Machine & Switchgear WorKs s Stafford. England.
Incandescent Lamp WorKs, Dalston, London.
Australian Offices :
59 William Street, 42 Bridge Street,
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY.
As a Christmas Present
or a New Year’s Gift
it would be extremely difficult to find a
more welcome article than a Piano and
amongst Pianos there is always one that
sets the standard of quality for the others.
If, then, you can afford to give a Piano,
let it be the British-built
which since its inception, over 200 years ago,
has been the model for the world to imitate.
** It has the * Broadwood' tone ft ; or, again:
** It is for all the world like a Broadwood,
you often hear from a salesman who is
at his wits* end to find adjectives strong
enough to praise his instrument.
Of course, it is great praise, but it is really
absurd; for no other piano is like the
Broadwood either in tone or touch.
Call and let us show you our Latest
Models, or send your Address and
we will post Catalogue.
Cash or Easy Terms to suit you.
The British Pianoforte Depot Ltd.,
Temporary Address -38 Market Street. Sydney
(OPPOSITE HENRY BULL'S).
your encyclopedia-
A Handy, Up-to-date Work in Two Volumes. 2700 Pages.
Strongly and Handstniely Bound in the Best Flexible Morocco.
Delivered Free for a First Payment of 3/-
THE STANDARD PRACTI-
CAL ENCYCLOPAEDIA is not
a reprint, revision,, r.or exten-
sion of any former publica-
tion, but it is an absolutely
new, fresh, authoritative ana
up-to-date survey of the entire
field of human interest.
Among the subjects treated
are Geography, History, Econ-
omics, Law, Theology, Medi-
cine, Hygiene, Mythology, the
Fire Arts, Philosophy, Lan-
guages, Mechanical Arts,
Orthography, Religions, Litera-
ture, etc., arranged in alpha-
betical order so that the reader
can readily find the complete
and full information desired
on the subject in question.
Repetitions have been care- u ——
thousands of short articles B iving the reader the full iuformat.on
modern i„ thou ß h, and essence, and «“X? „? J&S, "
>— *«■ cml “ a,,on
Japan, the Chinese Empire, etc., are ptesepfari •l n^ s0 _ o s ®P a n ment and other interesting topics.
d, i?.lt“ r* MOOMfSS Sb™".lr« Seated & there are „ set „ p „»„
JJUSS $S “ been pro,i ” y
„„f over one and three-el ß hth. leches In thickness. l-J' 'end *h.?“ skTe title and back-
„,,h round corn.,., sewn rv.th hne „nen S&S
srzj&rsrj?***
So-hmit tiring Works of this character containing no
are usmilly bounding -
or4v°eVody’s Practical Encyclopedia”
a neat, tight-fitting Container,
everv person of moderate means. , mnrp
If you would earn more, you must lear •
Thp nublishers - have now ready a finely lllustratea
application slip underneath.
Apply for this Booklet To-otty.
To TIIE STANDARD PUBLISHING CO. PTY. LTD.,
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Please send me. free of charge. ? nd ,™ th °f **
obligation on my part, full par Ocularsof jour
Standard Practical Encyclopedia fLjLyment
to deliver the complete work for a fast payment
of Ss.
N (P?else send this 'form,'or a postcard, mentioning
Bulletin 171214.)
Address
10
Increase Your
SALARY
By
Increasing Your
KNOWLEDGE
“Look It Up” in
Everybody's
Practical Encyclopedia
wKsSSSB?
WiCiOi®
Bound so flexible that it can
be opened flat clear back ot
rolled like a music roll


Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, December 12, 1914.
Royal Australian Navy.
A I PLICATIONS are invited from per-
sons '.Qualified for appointment to the
undermentioned positions :
(a) foreman of works
(IFMIORARY), for duty at Port
Stephens, N.SA\. Pay at the rate of
it per day, inclusive of all allowances
except travelling. Age of candidates
should not be under 40 years.
(&) civil ENGINEERS (TEM-
IORARY). Two (2) at £37 10s. per
month, and one (1) at £3l 13s. 4d. per
month, for duty at Director of Naval
Works Office, Melbourne; one (1) at
£37 10s. per month for duty at Port
Stephens, N.S.W. Pay is inclusive of
all allowances except travelling. Age of
candidates must not be under 35 years.
(C) NAVAL CIVIL ENGINEERING
DRAUGHTSMAN (TEMPORARY).
lour ( 41 at Director of Naval Works
Office, Melbourne; and two (2) at
Henderson Naval Base, Cocklnirn Sound,
\V .A. Pay will depend on qualifications
but will not exceed 20s. per diem (six
days per week), inclusive of all allow-
ances except travelling.
Candidates, who must be natural born
British subjects, will be required to pass a
medical examination prior to appointment,
and must tike up duty at their own expense.
Full particulars appear in the Common-
wealth Gazette of DECEMBER 32, 1914
copies of which may be obtained from the
Naval Secretary, Navy Office, Melbourne; or
from the District Naval Officer, Naval Staff
Office, Brisbane, Sydney, Fort Largs, S.A.,
Fremantle and Hobart.
Applications must reach the Naval Secre-
Melbourne, not later than
DECEMBER 31, 1914.
T. TRUMBLE,
Acting Secretary.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH
Twice Daily, at 2.30 and 8.
Twice Daily, at 2.30 and 8.
T 1 Oil THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ THE TIVOLI FOLLIES.
ISABELLE D’ARMOND. JACK CANNOT.
LA PIA. FOUR AERIAL LESTERS.
VIOLET TREVENYON. SOHO TRIO.
MONTGOMERY WOLF. VERA PEARCE
ALVARETTA, REGO AND STOPPIT.
Box Plan at Theatre and Nicholson’s.
___ ’Phone 9942 for Reserves.
■piVOEl THEATRE,. MELBOURNE.
J. W. RICKABY.
MOONEY & HOLBEIN. ALFREDO.
THE ASCOTS.
NOBLE & BROOKS. CHESTER KINGSTON.
WRIGHT & DIETRICH.
LA MAZE TRIO
P.ox Plan at Glen’s. PRICES: 4/-, 3/- 2/-, 1/-
H*’ U ** A ' 7 K s T Y ’ S. S Y D N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.'
NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY,
In the lively, Lilting Success,
THE GIRL ON THE EILM.
Direct from the London Gaiety.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
DAL A C E THEATRE, SYDNEY
Lessee BEAUMONT SMITH.
EVERY EVENING,
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
The funniest of all French comedies,
WHO’S THE LADY?
EVERY AFTERNOON,
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
SEVEN LITTLE AUSTRALIANS.
Plan at Paling’s.
CAILLE PERFECTION ENGINES.
8 H.P. Unit Plant.
Single-Cylinder “ Perfection "
with Igniter and Plug Cover.
“Perfection” Special Gasoline and Kerosene
market.
Photograph of Actual Test.
This shows that the “Perfection” igniter is abso-
lutely waterproof. We challenge any engine manu-
facturer in the world to produce an engine with an
ignition system that will stand a similar test.
Every part of ignition system was submerged in water
and engine continued to run and showed the same
power and speed as when running perfectly dry, thus
proving our claim —AN ABSOLUTELY WATER-
PROOF IGNITION SYSTEM.
; Engines are the greatest value ever placed on the
MARINE ENGINES, suitable for Canoes, Tenders and Fishermen.
WATERPROOF IGNITION SYSTEM.
NO COIRS, NO BATTERIES, NO TIMER, NO DANGER OF YOUR ENGINE
STOPPING IF CAUGHT IN A STORM, as the IGNITION SYSTEM
cannot be touched by water.
CAILLE PERFECTION ENGINES
are the height of simplicity. Any member of the family can run them. All parts are' completely
enclosed, except the fly-wheel. No oil can splash out —no water can splash in.
i„ We are the Sole Agents, and carry these engines in stock, so just step in and see one working
We will be glad to see you. iu *.
We are also SOLE AGENTS for the
Scripps Motor Company’s 4-Cycle Engines
This is the Engine which propelled the 35-footer “Detroit”
from Detroit, Michigan, to St. Petersburg, Russia—6soo miles.
BENSON BROTHERS, LIMITED
(CITY 4143).
51-53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY. 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
"I* HE WHITE CITY, SYDNEY.
CONTINUOUS DANCING NIGHTLY.
SPECIAL HOLIDAY ATTRACTIONS.
COUNTLESS NEW AMUSEMENTS.
Almost a New Show—with the old Name—'and more
than the old attractiveness.
Itozelle District No. 1 Band.
THE AERIAL BARTLETTS,
Wonderworkers in the Air.
Open Nightly from 7.30 to 11.
Boxing Day, Open All Day.
ADMISSION SIXPENCE.
T. H. ESLICK, C.E., General Manager.
RITEIt I O N THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee FRANK MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
FRED NIBLO & JOSEPHINE -COHAN
And J. C. Williamson’s Popular Comedy Players,
in another George M. Cohan Comedy,
BROADWAY JONRS.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
ABELPHI THEATRR, SYDNEY.
” Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
The first Matinee Performance of
THE BABES IN THE WOOD
will be given on
BOXING DAY,
after which there will be
PANTOMIME TWICE DAILY,
at 2 and at 7.45.
Popular Pantomime Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Amusements.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
T HE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES.
* In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world's best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER ,T. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
The KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
William Anderson presents a Brilliant New Version
of the Popular Pantomime,
SJNBAD THE SAILOR.
Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-, Plans at Allan’s.
|_| ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
■ 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present their Pantomime
Extravaganza,
CINDERELLA.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 65., 45., 2s. and Is.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, DECEMBER 26,
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present
MURIEL STARR
in
BOUGHT AND PAID FOR,
By GEORGE BROADHURST.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY. LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, DECEMBER 26.
Geo. Willoughby, Ltd., present the Sensational
Bedroom Drama,
THE BAD GIRL OF THE FAMILY.
Prices: 2/-, 1/- and 6d. Plan at Pianola,
ESPLANADE, ST. HILDA, MELBOURNE.
Direction NIGEL BROCK.
THE GREEN DANDIES.
EVERY EVENING at 8.30.
Prices 2/- and 1/-. NO BOOKING FEE,
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBODBNB,
FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON, 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
JOSEPHINE GASSMANN’S PICCANINNIES,
OLIVER REECE, MORRIS’S WRESTLING PONIES,
WHITE & GREY, ELLA AIRLIE.
IRVE DAYMAN & CO., BENSON & BELL.
Prices: 2/G, 2/-. 1/- & 6d. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- & 6<i.
OYT ’ S PICTURE S, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.. _
THREE Bid SHOWS.
OLYMPIA, Princes Bridge.
NATIONAL THEATRE. Bourke Street (Eastern end).
HOYT’S OWN, Bourke Street, centre (now building).
Direction ARTHUR F.' RUSSELL.
BIRCH & CARROLL
° (Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have, the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office:: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
Manufactured by 6WYNNES LTD., London.
HIGH-EEFICIENCY CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Machinery to discharged, OOIhOOOgallons I^^ Engin f ers ’ du *- ing which period they have supplied Centrifugal Pumping
the Thames, or 72 rivers as large as the Nile ’ CS) Pe *' mmUte ’ which is e< * ual to the of 363 rivers as large as
Included in these Plants will be found the most important, durable, economical and successful Pumping Installations in the world.
FIG. 602.
We stock these in all sizes, from lin. to 12in,
either single or double standards. ■:
with
MOTOR-DRIVEN PRESSURE PUMP, to lift 600 gallons,
against a head of 800 ft.
CWYNNES’ PUMPS ARE IN USE ALL OVER AUSTRALIA.
Prices and Quality are Right.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
FULL PARTICULARS from—
HAES & EGGERS LIMITED,
163 Clarence Street
SYDNEY.


OVER LITTLE GIRL
Could Not Stick Pin Between Sores.
As if Scalded. Broke and Formed
Sores. Pitiful to See. Cuticura
Soap and Ointment Cured Her.
Italians, Via Ballarat, Vic.—“My little
girl, Violet, has suffered with eczema ever
since vaccination some five years ago. The
eczema came out all over her; you could not
stick a pin between the sores and more espe-
cially in her joints. It was like as if she
had been scalded, and the blisters used to
break and form sores which were full of
humour. It was pitiful to see her.
“I tried ointments and several other
remedies but derived no benefit, so I sent
an order for Cuticura Ointment, and am
pleased to say after using two tins and
bathing well with the Cuticura Soap she
is cured and the Cuticura Remedies have
cured her. I used to apply them in the
following manner: bathe with Cuticura
Soap morning and night and apply Cuti-
cura Ointment on linen after bathing.’’
(Signed) Mrs. W. Peel, October, 1912.
Do you wish to improve your complexion,
hands or hair? If you wish a skin clear of
pimples, blackheads and other annoying
eruptions, hands soft and white, hair live
and glossy, and scalp free from dandruff
and itching, begin to-day the regular use
of Cuticura Soap for the toilet, bath and
shampoo, assisted by an occasional light
application of Cuticura Ointment. No
other method is so agreeable, so often effec-
tive and so economical in treating poor com-
plexions, red, rough hands, and dry, thin
and falling hair, as well as eczemas,
rashes and other eruptions. Cuticura Soap
and Cuticura Ointment are sold throughout
the world. Liberal sample of each mailed
free, with 32-p. Skin Book. Address R.
Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
*
Washable
Tubular
Ties
Ask for Cash's
Seamless
Poplin
Ties
Ask for Cash’s
Big Ben
A JOLLY good
*A fellow, and
every bit as good
as he looks.
He wakes you every
day with a cheerful
five-minute call or ten
successive half-minute
rings.
Big Ben is made in La Salle,
Illinois, U.S.A., by Westclox.
If you cannot find him in your
town, send a money order to his
makers’ Australian office, West-
clox, 63 Pitt Street, Sydney
They will have one mailed to you
at once by the nearest jeweller.
postage, 11- exirc
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HOLDS THE WORLD’S RECORD for LARGEST BONUSES.
NEXT DISTRIBUTION OF PROFITS AS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1014.
ALL participating policies issued in the Ordinary Department before the close of the current year will
share in the Cash Bonus to be then allotted. _ -no
Cash Bonus divided for year 1013. . . . . • • nnnn
Yielding reversionary additions to policies of over . . . . £1,730,000
SOCIETY IS PURELY MUTUAL. NO SHAREHOLDERS.
ALL the profits earned are distributed among the participating policy-holders. -
NOW is the time to effect an assurance or a further assurance on your life so as to reap the benefit of
this year’s cash Bonus.
WRITE to the Head Office. SI Pitt Street, Sydney, or any District Office or Agent of the Society for
full particulars. RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A.. E.F.A., F.S.S., JAMES STEEL,
General Manager and Actuary. Acting Secretary.
AN/EMIA
and Debility
IF you are run-down, easily exhausted and out
* of breath—if you feel slack, depressed, or
“out-of-sorts,” start a Course of Iron
‘Jelloids’ at once. Iron ‘Jelloids’ are the
finest and most reliable tonic for all cases of
Anaemia or Debility. They quickly restore
vitality, and produce the rich healthy blood so
essential to good health and vigour. Iron
‘Jelloids’ are a perfectly safe remedy under
all conditions —pleasant, inexpensive, do not
harm the teeth, and are non-constipating.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote: —
“ It.can be definitely stated that Iron ‘Jelloids’
constitute the most effective and desirable
treatment for the cure of that common com-
plaint, that insidious and weakening condition,
no matter from what cause arising, known
as Anaemia or Poorness of Blood.”
A fortnight's trial (Price 1/6) will convince you
Iron Jelloids'
enrich the blood - renew vitality
Special Tonic for Men, Iron ‘Jelloids,’ No. 2A (containing- Quinine). For
Women, Iron ‘Jelloids,’ No. 2. For Children, Iron ‘Jelloids,’ No. 1.
IKON JELLOIDS are sold by all Chemists in Australia.
Manufactured only by The Jelloid Co., 205, City Road, London, England.
Wholesale: Druggists Sundries Ltd., 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
IN' Bostoek shoes the feet always feel beauti-
fully light and comfortable; and the wearer
is ready for a garden party or any smart func-
tion. So perfect are their fitting properties that
the shoes positively feel as though they have been
made specially. Every time they are worn the
wearer experiences a.sense of satisfaction, wonder-
fully like that enjoyed in a smart Parisian
gown ; and this feeling is intensified by knowing
that the shoes are exclusive in style and exquis-
itely finished.
Bostocks are the cream of imported shoes.
Special shipments have recently arrived at the
leading stores, and ladies should call before the
choicest styles are sold,
809
Be sure yon take Iron Jelloids 5 times a day
1
n
V
Style 589
4
m
Refating a
common error
After a series of tests to deter- ■
mine whether enamelled pans or ■
cast iron pans came to the boil ■
quicker, the Professor of Physics ■
at Birmingham University says: g
“In every case the Cast Iron Pan g
boiled in less time.” m
Kenrick’s Cast Iron
Pots and Pans
BRITISH MADE
BY BRITISH
WORKMEN
On Sale at all
IRONMONGERS,
STORES, Etc.
last ten times as long as tinned
steel or enamelled ware; never
chip, rust or leak; keep cleaner
and boil quicker.
The Inky Way.
“Bilrock”: Something unique in the way
of newspaper production stands to the credit
of L’lndependance Belse, a Brussels daily.
Since the beginning of the war it has not
missed an issue. It has been published in
succession in Brussels, Ghent and Ostend,
vacating each town just prior to the Ger-
mans taking possession. At Brussels things
were cut so tine that’, when William’s
marauders were entering the city at one end
the last of the Independance staff was
escaping at the other, with copies of the
morning’s issue. At Ostend the staff jumped
on .board tlie-last steamer to get away from
that port, and yesterday morning (October
21) the plucky Belgian editor wiped the
perspiration off his worried brow in London
and prepared to write a graphic story of the
latest proceedings amongst the shot and shell.
The first edition of the paper published in
England was sold in the streets yesterday
evening. L’lnrepen dance He ice is the old-
est Belgian newspaper. First produced as
L’l A dependant on the eve of the insurrec-
tion of IS3O, it took the present title when
Belgium was made an independent State.
It is proposed to issue it in London until
further notice as an evening paper, and there
are enough Belgian refugees now in Fogland
to ensure it a circulation of a hundred thou-
sand or so.
* * * *
Sydney’s long-promised Labor daily. The
World, which was to have arrived in
November, but was postponed till February,
will not appear until September. 101 b. The
postponement till February was due partly
to the non-arrival of machinery from
America, and partly to the general hash that
Bill has made of things. Since then the
prospects of rounding up advertisements in
payable quantities have been weighed and
found wanting; and there is a further diffi-
culty about making a reasonable contract
for printing paper.
# * * *
A letter received at The Bulletin office:
Ed. of Tub Bulletin.
Memo William Butters.
Wholesale only. Woodworker.
They burnt 7 years of my writings; over 7
volumes; k 75,000 copies of my printed stuff
incl. thousands of books' k 100 letters from the
biggest on the globe hut you might eare for ibis
for one of your papers; and can have it if selected,
free.
lie. Mayor, newly elected, addressing the tired
drought-stricken townspeople; head deacon of the
only spired church in a radius of two hundred miles
of rabbit-producii g hot dusty earth, called “plain.”
“Self-made: friends, quite, and never above admitting
my lowly beginning for not ashamed of honorable
efforts even though in a lowlier sphere; in my
hand behold the trowel & hammer of my bricklaying
days.” One of the audience not a stranger to the
cry “A pot of mortar, tin of water, what’s the
time, & where’s the boss ?” took the chance of
handling the articles, and passed them back
respectfully. “Well, aren’t they such as any gentle-
man selected by his fellows as Mayor, might proudly
exhibit as proof of days of hard k persistent
effort?” “Oh quite, hut one’s a carpenter, & the
other a gardener.”
Wm. Butters,
poet & author
whose works bearing the attachment His. Maj Aust
author & poet have lw the Home Sec of Britain laid
before The King.
* * * *
“Norbell”: Brisbane Courier, which has
been wearing a Union Jack in its bonnet
and waving a patriotic brolly with great
enthusiasm ever since the incivilities started,
now prints itself entirely in English. For
a month or two after the beginning of the
impoliteness it continued to print a small
portion of its more or less valuable columns
in German, for the convenience of those con-
stant readers who had not yet mastered the
angry Saxon tongue' This habit has lately
been dropped unostentatiously. Perhaps it
seemed a little inconsistent to blackguard
the Germans on one page and then politely
submit the news to them, in their own lan-
guage, on another.
“One-em Rule” : The legal advice column
of Melbourne Herald is one of the most in-
teresting collections of human documents I
ever struck. Usually it is stuffed with
tragedy—stuffed by the man who wants to
change his name because it sounds German ;
by “Poor Woman” who has been overcharged
by a solicitor; by “Fatherless,” who is ad-
vised to prevent her mother from dealing
with a property by lodging a caveat; by the
lady who wants to know if she can get a
divorce by leaving her lmsband because he
is out of work; by the wife who wishes to
know if her husband can give her his pro-
perty and then go: insolvent; by the girl
who wants to know the procedure in a case
of pre-maternitv exnenses; by a tailor who
made an overcoat for a 20-year-old boy who
has gone with the Expeditionary Force and
hasn’t paid the money; by the old woman
who asks for a remedy against the doctor
who has unskilfully treated her; and by the
subscriber who wants to know if it is right
for a man to collect public subscriptions
for a widow and deduct from the total an
account alleged to be owing by the deceased
husband. A girl of 17, who earns her own
living, asks if she may leave home, which is
intolerable owing to family quarrels ; and a
time-payment house-purchaser discovers that
the vendor has made him pay his (the ven-
dor’s) solicitor’s costs in getting the insur-
ance on a house which lias been burned
down, the vendor taking the piincipal, though
the buyer has paid the premiums. There is
(he inquirer who wants to legitimise a child ;
the man who gave a debt-collecting agency
the collection of overdue accounts, and now
can’t get a settlement; and he who is told
that the mother of his illegitimate children
is their legal guardian. The comedy is not
so frequent, yet sometimes you get the like
of this: “A wife cannot compel her husband
to look after the children and the cows,”
which suggests that another worm has turned
at Teatville.


The Recognised Leading House for all
fSMOKERS & SHAVERS’ REQUISITES
PIPES
H
I
G
H
*7O
G
R
A
D
E
S.N.L. Pipes, made from finest quality old
hnar root, with superior hand-cut Para vul-
canite mouthpieces. Heavy Silver mounts.
AU sha P es 3/- each (post free)
Is*
“Goudron,” finest quality
Natural Block
Meerschaum Pipes.
THE
SWEETEST
AND
COOLEST
SMOKING
PRODUCED.
PIPES EVER
P.ara Vulcanite Mouthpieces, in case,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 21/-
each (post free).
Natural Pressed Amber Mouthpieces, '
in case,
12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 18/6, 25/- each
(post free).
CIGARS
QUALITE
DE LUXE.
“Golden Key”
Cigars, of exquisite
aroma and infinite
charm.
The Standard
of Luxury
in Smoking.
Put up in cedar cabinets containing—
-25 cigars, 11/6; 50 cigars, 22/6
(post free).
Sample boxes of 5 cigars, 2/6 (post
free). *
CIGARETTES.
Delightful, Fascinating
“Three Witches”
Cigarettes, made from
selected, sun-ripe
Virginian Tobacco.
Finest quality.
5/- per 100 (post
Jhree Wuch^S
& sons L t »
TOBACCOS.
“Sunol,” highest grade Virginian, awarded 4
gold medals. Dark or Light. In plug Ol‘
cut, 6/- per lb. (post free).
“Lon us” Smoking Mixture, choicest tobaccos,
skilfully blended. Put up in 2oz. tins.
8/6 per lb. (post free).
Tobacco Pouches
H
A
N
D
Y
*35
mm
nm.
c
0
M
P
A
C
T
Wallet Pouch, Split Calf 2/9 each
„ „ Real Morocco . . 3/6 „
„ „ Calf Crocodile .. 4/6 „
» Gazelle 5/- «
>• ~ Velvet Calf .... 6/6 »
1^
POCKET LIGHTERS.
The “Sunol” Pocket
Lighter. Every smoker
should have one. Simple
in construction. Nothing
to get out of order.
2/. each (post free).
CIGAR and CIGARETTE
HOLDERS.
Amber Cigar Holders, silver rim,
in case, 0/6, 7/6 each.
Amber Cigar Holders, gold rim,
in case, 1 0/6, 11/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, silver
rim, in case 4/- 4/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, gold rim, in
case 7/6, 8/6 each.
SHAVING SETS.
N
O
T
H
I
N
G
,|Q
B
E
T
T
E
R
Shaving Sets, comprising i renowned C. 8.8.
Razor, 1 C. 8.8. Razor Strop, 1 Badger Hair
Shaving Brush, and stick Williams's Soap—
-18/6 (post free).
RAZORS
R
A
R
E
Q
u
A
L
I
T
Y
The “Hitite” Razor, pronounced by experts
to be absolutely perfect. None to
equal it. Kept in good order for 2 years,
free of charge—
Vulcanite Handle 7/6 each (post free).
Ivory Handle 10/6 each (post free).
SAFETY RAZORS.
The Celebrated “Auto Strop” Safety
Razor, complete with 12 blades and strop,
in leather case .. .... 22/6 (post free).
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney
Branches : CITY, SUBURBS and NEWCASTLE.
KYNOCH
USE
BRITISH MADE
.22 Rim Fire CARTRIDGES
Head Works: Birmingham, England. And at Melbourne 8 Sydney.
OSTER
When it comes to Threading Tubes
there is a special tool to fit your particular use
in the Oster line. 20 years of specialisation
guarantees their quality —an Oster means
clean threads quickly cut.
FOR SALE BY LEADING DEALERS
IN ALL CITIES.
THe Oster Mfg\ Co.,
Cleveland, 0., U,S.A.
3
OSTER
[i
GOARDA BEANS
The new Edible Vegetable wonder from the
Solomon Islands. Grows 3 to G feet long. One bean
sufficient for a large family meal. Now is the time
to plant. Full instructions given. Send for photo.
Circular free. Seeds can be obtained, 5 for 1/-.
Stamps or postal note. J. M. Morris, 485 Leichhardt
Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
, i ■
SYDNEY: John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE: Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH: McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
iC
M .
Proved by Independent
scientific investigation
to have a Body-Build*
mg Power of 10 to
20 times the amount
taken.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
/ OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over SO en-
graving's, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkrrir
England, (id. How to Gut Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, ’is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nr.na, Is Cd each, posted. Educating the
Horse, is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Ri oiter.. Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, u ’d. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s fid posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/0.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window TicketWihting Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, -1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.. Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simpletests for minerals),
38 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, fid Britain fop. the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
JsSd. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, vs.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups. Is 2d. ffsw
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler's Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook e Guide, Is 6d.
m
?
B
■
HOME CyCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and snows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young' and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
IW BOOKSELLER to THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS- LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette Is. Hoyle s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowv Rivfp 4«
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White .Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter., Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted, oetter Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made ±.ASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping. 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Waxnan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lef/s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. IWEstablished 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
liE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my....
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappjio, genuine,
Is. Oi.n Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, is. Champions of the
Ring, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Kev to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bf-nnarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and i
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing' Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


I Was a Surprise to & All
My Acquaintances After Using
DR. SHELDON’S GIN PILLS.
[3U
>
MISS E.
ALLEN.
(From a
photo.)
There are thousands of Australian
women whose duties call them out
in all winds and weathers, many of
whom sit with wet feet or stand ail
day, thus weakening and undermin-
ing their health. Women, however,
for the most part, spend their lives
at home, and these women are will-
ing and ambitious that their homes
shall he kept neat and eiean, their
children well-dressed and tidy, and
do their own cooking, sweeping and
dusting, and often washing, ironing
and sewing for the entire family.
Both of these classes eall for our
sympathy. Truly the work of such
a woman “is never done,” and is it
any wonder that she breaks down at
the end of a few years; the back
begins to ache, there is great depres-
sion, and tile struggle to continue
her duties is pitiful? The reason
of this is that the Kidneys are not
doing their duty properly. If they
were performing their work as
lilters in the way that tiiey should,
tile blood would be kept pure, and
would carry nourishment to every
part of the body; but if the Kidneys
are sore and inactive, the blood
carries pain and disease
throughout the system. Hr.
Sheldon’s Gin I'ills are the
great corrective for all Kid-
ney ills, and in making the
Kidneys well will soon re-
move all such symptoms as
ISackache, Headache, Nervous
Depression, Dragging Pains,
Sleeplessness, Lassitude and
other distressing ailments
which women are so often
subject to.
A CHRISTCHURCH \ ADY TESTIFIES.
“For a long time I have been seriously troubl ed with racking pains and sleepless nights, with
every indication of bad kidney troubles and its serio.us complications,” writes Miss K. .Vilen, 903
Colombo Street, Christchurch, N.Z. “I suffered also from very bad and bilious headaches, and with
mental and household worries my life had become a burden and a tiresome endurance, which
completely eradicated any ambition in business or domestic duties, and left me a complete wreck.
After a lot of persuasion 1 was induced to give Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills a trial, but as I had tried
so many advertised remedies with no good results I took very little interest in them, as I had given
up all hopes and ambitions. I might mention the effects were beyond my most sanguine wishes,
leaving me practically cured, a surprise to myself and to all my acquaintances, for which I tender
my most grateful thanks, and conscientiously trust Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills will attain the merit they
deserve.”
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are obtainable everywhere. Price, 1/6 and 2/6.
DnSKeldo^
GI
AND
for BACKACHE
KidnfyTroubi fs.
SHEAR WITH THE FAMOUS
FAL'KINER Mc ™ c EQUIPMENT
?v<
Invented by a practical Australian Pastoralist, it will be found the
FALKINER ELECTRIC SHEEP SHEARING Machine combines
many striking advantages, of which the following are a few
(1) It is easy to erect.
(2) Entire absence of trouble*
some line shafting.
(3) Independent motor for each
man.
(4) Electric power available for
shed lighting;.
(5) The patent universal joint
enables the shearer to
work with ease and com-
fort.
(6) Any hand piece may be
used.
(7) Silent running and practi-
cally no v.bration.
(8) No special type of shed
necessary—the Falklner
Electric Machine will fit
any shed, old or new.
(9) Electricity is the safest,
cheapest and cleanest
power!
This machine, which has been patented all over
the world, stands unique in design, simple in con-
struction, and unequa'led in small consumption of
power. Sheep are shorn at the minimum of cost
and the maximum of efficiency.
Write for full details, also for our illustrated leaflet
dealing with the Electric Lighting of Shearing Sheds.
FAL RINER
ELECTRIC COY.
103-5 William St., Melbourne, and Somerset House, 5 Moore St., Sydney
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size Price, 21s,
Siege-gun and Bayonet.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
r TXTO your tribal god you kneel,
An idol hideous to sight
A god of concrete and of steel,
A scientific god of Might.
I \4r , ‘ S "ta e -beavJ-moul<lS Bt liu I b.
The carven scowl, the \Kage
No cross of thorns it. bravely bore.
It held no torch of Libei t} .
To your inhuman God of Wai
You knelt in dread ldolatij.
Your god was mightier than man;
It stood from humankind apait,
For in its veins thin petrol ran,
A dynamo it had for heart.
You placed it high, for all to see.
You said, “No human love it stirs,
Only machine-made souls could be
Its meek and servile worshippers.
So from their homes you drafted men,
Men. simple, kindly, that obeyed
In docile loyalty, and then
Machines of them you grimly made.
Their humble souls you sternly drilled,
Crushing out their humanity;
Their kindly hearts you harshly filled
With dumb machine-idolatry.
Their rich ideals you quickly greyed;
You bound these souls that once were tiee .
Thev marched in millions, unafraid.
Secure behind machinery.
And, ringed around with monster guns,
Protected by your soulless might,
You led your meek, obedient sons
For Culture and your god to fight.
But, from the past a warning rings,
One ancient lesson you forget:
No race that set its trust in Things—
Not. Men —has won a battle yet.
Great Caesar and Napoleon
With living men. not weapons, warred,
Their way to world-wide empire won
By thrusting steel and hacking sword.
And though you build your idol stern.
And make your grey machines of steel,
This age-old lesson you must learn:
The sword-arm is the last appeal.
(Yes, this you learnt with strange surprise
Against the Belgians, British, French:
The final victory still lies
In that last fight within the trench).
So. when the filial die is Cast.
Ignobly shall you play your part;
The steel is in your cannons vast:
It is not in your soldier’s heart.
On great machines your faith is set.
In men that are machines you trust:
Our weapons are the bayonet.
And the stout heart behind its thrust.
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
The Tale of a Pig.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’VE always liked roast pork, but I can’t
eat it now without feeling sad, because
it reminds me of a feed me and Dusty
Miller nearly had.
We’d been cruising about the South
American coast for a couple of months, most
of the time on salt tack, when we called in
at Caldera for coal. After we’d finished
coaling leave was piped, so me and Dusty
decided to have a quiet time—a long walk,
a feed, an inspection of the city, and then
come off to the ship again.
Caldera was just about the worst place
we could have struck for a teetotal run.
There are about three streets where you can
shelter from the sun, and they have saloons
in them, and somehow the saloons and the
shade always go together. And then there’s
sand everywhere. There’s no grass or trees.
I often wondered if old Pizarro trained his
horses to live on salt tack when he was
round that way. If he did, I’ll bet it’s
some of his surplus stock they serve out in
the Navy now.
When the women go out after fuel, they
sift the sand through their fingers, and pick
out the bits of straw and chips that have
blown there.
Dusty and me walked round the town
about four times, and then tried the country,
but the farther we went the worse the sand
got Dusty reckoned that every hundred
yards we walked put off his turning a tee-
totaller for five years. After a while we
made back to the beach, and stood there
throwing pebbles in the water. The sand
was too hot to sit on.
I was feeling pretty miserable, and Dusty
looked it. x\fter a while he began to talk.
“Did you ever notice, Jimmy,” he said,
“when you want to forget a thing how it
keeps coming up topsides? I told myself
just now that I wasn’t thirsty, and started
to think about next gun-layers’ test. Then
I got on to wondering when we would do
our musketry, and that made me think of a
pair of shooting-glasses Gunnery Jack’s got.
Have you seen them? They’re tinted brown,
just the color of lager.... A pint of iced
lager wouldn’t go bad now, would it? I’m
not thirsty myself, but I thought you might
like a drink. I wouldn’t buy the rotgut
they sell here, anyhow. They want four
pesos a bottle, and it isn’t worth one.
r “I wish I had those glasses here now.
This sand makes me think of salt. I reckon
tea quenches your thirst better than beer,
don’t you?
“My eyes are feeling pretty sore. I reckon
it must be the sandy blight I had when I
was a kid coming back. There’s enough
sand here to bring it. anyhow. You wouldn’t
like me to get invalided through bad eyes,
would you, Jimmy? But if I do happen to
go blind tell the doctor what caused it. I
don’t care for myself, but I’m wondering
what my girl will do; the one who’s barmaid
in the ‘First, and Last" I mean. If I don’t
see her again tell her the last thing I looked
at was her photograph.”
He began to get on my nerves.
“Dusty Miller,” I said, “if you don’t pipe
down I’ll brain you.”
“Jimmy, so long as you do it with a beer
bottle I’ll forgive everything.”
•Inst then three bells struck. As we
couldn’t get a boat off to the ship until five
o’clock, l reckoned the only way to keep him
quiet was to let him buy some beer.
"We had to change a quid when we got
to the saloon, and could only get 19 pesos for
it instead of 22. It was Dusty’s quid.
When we got to the fifth bottle Dusty only
had three pesos left, so 1 had to change
another quid. We both had a deep-sea roll
on when we made for the boat.
As we turned down to the jetty we ran
across an old sow with a litter, lying in the
middle of the road. Dusty cruised round
her for a bit. and then said: “Jimmy, there’s
two too many in that family.” Dusty reckons
he knows something about farming—he did
14 days’ leave in the country once.
“How do you know?” I asked him.
"If she piped dinner now you’d see two of
the poor little pigs left out in the cold. I
reckon if we took two of them aboard for pets
we’d be doing the pigs a kindness, and save
the owner the trouble of killing them.” Then
he dived in, and, after a bit of a scuffle, came
out hanging on to a pig with each hand.
The old sow started to make a bit of a
fuss, and a Chilian came towards us waving
a knife. As neither of us could talk Chilano
we thought it best not to try and explain
our kind action, so we each tucked a pig
under his arm and started to do a steam trial
for the boat.
I don’t know whether it was the beer or
the pig, but Dusty was steering a rotten
course. 1 beat him by a dozen lengths, and
just got the boat as she shoved off. When
Dusty got to the jetty she was a couple of
lengths clear, and he was between the Chilian
and the deep sea. He chose the sea.
When we hauled him aboard he had lost
his pig, and it upset him so much that he
wanted to go back and fight the owner. I
stopped him by giving him my pig.
“Jimmy,” he said, “his poor little brother
is drowned, so we’ll keep this one for a pet.
We’ll christen him Porky.” Then he made a
rope’s end fast round him and dropped him
into the sea. It was a prettv sick pig we
hauled up when we got alongside, so we took
him up to the sick bay and practised “First
Aid to the Apparently Drowned,” and soon
brought him round.
After supper Dusty pinched a box from
the canteen and put Porky into it. He didn’t
seem to go much on it, but we gave him a tin
of condensed milk, and stowed him away in
the steam cutter.
In the morning I went up and gave him
some more milk, but he only walked in it and
squealed. I thought over it for a bit, and
then went and borrowed a feeding-cup —one
of those with a long spout —from the sick
bay, and was trying to pour the milk down
his throat when Dusty came up. When lie
saw what I was doing he looked so sarcastic
that I swore off trying to feed baby pigs fol
evermore.
“That ain’t the way to feed young am
mals,” he said. “You get hold of him bj
the back of the neck. Then you put a finger
in his mouth, and shove his face down into
the milk. I’ll show you.”
He put his finger into Porky’s mouth all
right, but the next thing he did was to
leach for Porky’s hind legs, tear him off. and
then start to use him as a caulking-mallet.
“I’ll teach you to bite when I’m trying to
be a mother to you,” was all he said, but lie
said it-hard.
I stopped him after a few hits, because l
reckoned that if the pig had to die we might,
as well kill him, so tnat we could eat him
afterwards. We took Porky up on to the
fo’c’s’le, and Dusty sent me for a bucket of
boiling water while he sharpened his knife.
We used the capstan as an altar. I got
hold of Porky and held him on his back, and
then Dusty, still thinking of his finger, made
a wild jab. Porky blew out such a squeal
that I let go, and he rolled off the capstan
and then started to gallop round the deck
with the knife sticking in his chest. Dusty
made a grab at him, but Porky dodged under
the cable, while Dusty fell over it. I could
see that Porky was too good at dodging, so
I got behind a hatch with a handspike, and
as he came round again, with Dusty in full
chase, I let drive at him. I missed Porky,
but I got Dusty.
I don't know whether it was the knife-
handle that tripped Porky or he was just
exhausted, but he fell over, and I thought it
was better to get hold of him than to stop
and argue with Dusty. So I seized him and
shoved him head down into the bucket of
water. After he was properly dead we
hauled him out, and then Dusty said he had
to be scraped to get the bris'tles off.
I think it must have been a different breed
of pig that Dusty had seen killed. First we
tried with our knives, but the bristles would
not shift. Then I wanted to try and shave
him. but Dusty wouldn’t get his razor, and
I didn’t care about using mine. So we tried
holystones. Most of the skin came off.with
the bristles, but the corpse looked pretty
clean except for the corners.
We reckoned on having him for supper
that night, so after evening quarters I took
the remains into the.mess, while Dusty went
to the canteen and bought a tin of peas, but
he couldn’t get an onion. We held a consul-
tation, and the verdict was that roast suck-
ing pig without onions wasn’t to be thought
of.
Dusty pondered for a while, and then
said: “Let us take a walk round the cap-
tain’s galley.”
I reckon Dusty must be an old shipmate
of Providence’s, because when we got to the
galley there was the captain’s cook peeling
an onion. There’s one thing I admire about
Dusty when he’s sober, and that is his diplo-
macy.
“I say, Cookie,” he started. “The last
night we were in Sydney I met a girl who
asked after you. Wanted me to bring a
message off to you. Said she wanted to see
you particular the next night. I told her
we were leaving the next day, so she said
she would write.”
“Don’t know who that would be,” said the
cook. “What’s her name 7”
“Oh. I forget,” said Dusty. “A tall, good-
looking- pusher she was. That’s a strong
onion you’ve got there.”
“Just as well, too. There are only about
(Continued on next page.)


DROPSY
Watery Swellings under the Eyes and in the Ankles, Limbs and Body
The fluid you take with your food,
in a single month , weighs as much as
your entire body.*
Most of this fluid has to pass out
through the kidneys, bladder and
urinary system.
Imagine what would happen if the
outlets for this water were stopped up !
In a few hours the limbs and body
would swell to a great size with the
collected water.
That is what actually takes place in
dropsy.
Dropsy is the name given to the
soft, watery swellings which appear in
the ankles, limbs and body, under the
eyes or in the eyelids, or on the backs
of the hands. If you press your finger
into the swollen flesh the pitting slowly
fills up with the water again.
* (i.e. —If you are of average weight.)
\ n
TzWJ/M I
/j
DROPSICAL EYES.
DROPSY is not a. disease in itself,
but it is serious because it indicates
serious disease.
It may show that the kidneys are
failing to separate the waste water from
the blood, or that there is something
obstructing the urinary canals and
preventing the waste water passing out;
or it may be caused by defective action
of the heart.
Tapping takes away the water from
under the skin, but more water soon
collects, because tapping cannot reach
the cause of the dropsy, and as long
as the cause remains the dropsy will
continue.
Doans Backache Kidney Pills have
a quick and direct action on the kidneys
and bladder. They promote a free flow
from the system, washing out clogging
impurities from the passages, and
draining out the collected water through
the natural channels. They gently
lead the kidneys back to health and
activity, and thus reach the cause of
most cases of dropsy.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have
no action on the heart, nor on the liver,
stomach or bowels ; they are solely for
the kidneys and urinary system, and
are, therefore, of the highest value in
dropsy, gravel, stone and all diseases
arising from kidney and bladder trouble.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Fills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per bottle, or
post free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
a dozen in the ship, and we’ve got to keep
them locked up, or someone would be sneak-
ing them,” said the cook as he put it down.
Dusty looked at me, winked, and then
walked away. I stopped, and was talking
to the cook, when a greasy dishcloth caught
me under the ear. I turned round and saw
Dusty running along the deck, so I grabbed
the nearest thing—wnich Happened to> be the
onion—and heaved it after him as hard as
I could. The cook thought it was a great
joke, the best shot he’d seen for a long time;
and he laughed so much that his mate came
into the galley to see what was wrong. Just
then I saw the joke, too: and after having
laugh with them, I went along to the
mess. When I got there Dusty had Porky
!\ll stuffed and ready for the oven. “Jimmy,
old ship,” he said, “haven’t I always told
you that strategy is the art of cookery?”
, At supper-time Porky was done to a turn.
We were just going to take him to the mess
When, “Clear lower deck. Up boats,” was
piped, so we left him in the oven to keep
Warm. After the boats were hoisted we
both made a dash for the galley. Dusty got
there first, and srently opened the oven door,
and there was Porky—gone.
Dusty stood for a minute trying to speak,
but it. was “stations only.” His mouth
moved, but he didn’t make any sound. Sud-
denly be grabbed the cook’s ladle and started
to rush round the messes. I followed him.
but it was no use. We couldn’t strike a
sign or a smell.
Next morning the dish was on our mess
table with the bones in it.
“ !” said Dusty.
B. M. LEVER.
Fambly ’Ist’ry.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
men are standing on the corner of
Kiley-strcet and a small lane at 2 a.m.
One is a middle-aged fellow with a
red, mottled face and a short neck, and rims
of red round his eyes. The other is younger,
rather well dressed, with only a singlet show-
ing at the opening of his coat, and wearing
no vest. He looks so blase, standing with
one hand thrust in his trousers-band, that
life seems to have nothing new to show him.
Ilis complexion is muddy. Of course, you
can’t see all this, it is so dark, but you must
take my word for it. They look bored, as if
they would go to bed, only that it is too
early.
Down the silent street echoes footsteps,
and a rather well dressed youth with a black
silk muffler round liis neck reaches them. He
has squinting eyes and a foxy face.
“Any chance of a tiddley, blokes?” lie.asks.
The two men scrutinise him slowly, and
the red-rimmed-eyed man says at length in
an astlimatieal voice :
“I think we can manage it” —placing great
emphasis on the “we.”
“Of course,” says the foxy-faced youth.
“I’m not lookin’ for a Jimmy Woodser.”
The man who possesses the knowledge
leads the way to a small hotel a little way
off and gives a mysterious knock in a con-
spirator sort of way. Down the street
approach the slow, deliberate steps of
authority, and a policeman arrives.
“Good-night, Tom.” says the man with the
astlimatieal voice.
“Is that you, Jim?” asks the policeman,
stopping.
"We’re just goin’ ter ’ave a drink,” says
Jim. "Wodger say?”—again giving his con-
spirator’s knock, only louder.
The door opens by inches, and a man in
pyjamas has a slow peep through the crack.
At length lie allows them to come in, police-
man and all. In silence he takes his stand
behind the bar, and serves them with drinks,
which are asked for in very low voices. The
policeman swallows his furtively, and then
says “Good-night” and leaves.
“ ’Andy ter be in with the John Dunns,”
says the youth with the foxy face.
The blasd man looks at him with the light
of superior knowledge in his eyes and speaks
for the first time.
“Drinks widger to-night, sloughs yer in
ter-morrer.”
Then he relapses into his blase manner
again.
“Wot does ’e wear ’is coat for?” asks the
asthmatical voice with an air of finality.
“ ’Ad a narrer escape meself last Cliews-
d'.v night,” says the youth.
The others do not seem to be interested,
but not discouraging. So he goes on:—
“Pastin’ a shop, an’ I couldn’t see anyone
lookin’ after it, so I went in to look round.
Then I leant over the counter ter the till
(an old-fashioned one), and give a pull, en
I thought a bell would ring; but it didn’t.
Then I’ looks round again. Nobody there.
Then I looks in the till, en it was a fair cop,
my oath ! I was jest annexin’, when I ’ears
a cough. There wuz a bloke there all the
time, ‘Wodger doin’?’ he asks. I could see
it wuz all up, en I says, ‘Can’t yer see wod
I am doin’?’ I asks. ‘Yes, I can,’ he says.
‘Wodger doin’ it for?’ he asks. ‘’Ard up?’
he asks. ‘Yes,’ I says. I thought it wuz all
up, but instead he gives me a bob en tells me
ter go en get a meal. It wuz a narrer escape
all right.”
“Ever bin up?” asks the astlimatieal voice.
“No, en I don’t wa liter, my oath.”
“Oh, it’s nothin’,” says the short-necked
man. “Fust time I thought the end of the
world was come, but after that I didn’t care
’ow soon I got back. It’s like goin’ ’ome
now.”
“All the same,” says the youth, “I’m satis-
fied where I am.”
“Take it from me,” says the blase young
man, looking the yodth intently in the squint-
ing eyes. “That if yer wants ter keep out
of slough, give the slops a wide.”
Then he begins to tap the youth’s top vest
button slowly with his right forefinger.
“Yer can’t give ’em too wide a wide,” he
says impressively, a word with each tap.
“Some blokes think if they get friendly with
the slops it’s a bit of all right, but, as Jim
’ere says, ‘wod do they wear their coats for?’
It stands ter squse.”
Then he leaves off tapping the button and
says:—
“I oughter know. I’ve seen more years in
gaol than you’ve seen life, matey. I came
of an old gaol-bird fambly. Me farder wuz
more in than out, en so wuz his farder before
him. Ever ’ear of the Carroll case?”
"No,” says the youth.
“Never ’card of the Carroll case! Bloke
garrotted en strangled ter death!” He looks
as astonished as a blase young man can be.
“That wuz me farder,” he adds.
“The bloke who wuz garrotted?” asks the
youth.
“No—bloke who wuz scragged for it.”
The youth looks with new interest at the
blase young man.
“W’en it’s in yer ter do a thing, it must
come out,” says the member of the gaol-bird
family. “That’s wot me farder said. ’E
said when yer gets a grip yer simply can’t
let go. There’s no sense in it, but there it
is. If yers ’olds on till a bloke’s ’arf dead,
it’s enough, but yer gets a feelin’ come over
yer to be thorough. Yer’ve ’eard of Eliza-
beth Pike?”
The youth seems to be puzzling out a dim
recollection.
“Useter insure ’usbands,” helped the blase
young man.
“Wot ’appened to ’er?”
The blase young man holds his head on
one side, and jerks an imaginary rope up and
clicks with his tongue.
“Insured one too many,” he says. “Aunt
o’ mine.”
“Pet’s have more drinks,” says the foxy-
faced youth, realising that he was in the
presence of aristocracy. He throws a sover-
eign ostentatiously on the counter.
“Then there’s Andy Fitzpatrick.” says the
nephew of Elizabeth Pike. “Er course
everybody’s ’eard uv ’im. He wuz me uncle.”
“Wot did ’e do?”
“Did in a slop in Bridge-street. You
know. Everybody knows. The papers wuz
full of it. ’E showed ’em ’ow to pass out,
e did. ‘Swing ’er off, yer cow,’ he says to
Nosey Bob when the noose wuz put round
his neck. But we’re all like that. Me
grandfather asked for a cigar, en came out
smokin’.”
“Wuz ’e ’ung, too?”
“We’re all ’ung,” says the blase young
man with proper humilitv. “ ’E wuz the
bloke who useter take noo chums up country
for jobs. Yer’ve ’card yer old people talk of
it ’aven’t yer? ’E’d ’ave bin all right only
the fool wore one of their rings en wuz
reckernised be it bo the man’s wife.”
“Wuz yer great-grandfather ’ung, too?”
“Never ’eard uv ’im. Wouldn’t be sur-
prised. It’s in the blood. I tell yer, it
’appens to all uv us. We’re born to it.
There’s no gettin’ away from it.”
“En’ some day you’ll be ’ung?”
“A cert.”
He is getting blase again. He slips his
hand in the top of his trousers and chews a
wooden match gloomily. The foxy-faced
youth looks at him with a world of interest
in his eyes. At last the blase young man
says:—•
“Suppose I’d better be goin’. The Moll
will be anxious if I stay out late. Think
I’m in again.” lie then slouches away.
The astlimatieal man looks at the barman,
and then at the foxy-faced youth, and at
length one of his red-rimmed' eyes closes pon-
derously in a half-wink. _
“Jerry is a terrible bloke ter skite about
his fambly,” he says. . ~ .
Then he cogitates for a full half-nn* ;.
“En’ I suppose more’n ’alf of it is i - •
ROBERT BROTHERS.
A Day in a Gentlewoman’s Life
-1870.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAVE had such an exciting day. My
new pelerine came from Madame
Briggs’s, the costumi&re at Brixtou,
and I read a most dangerous book Mad-
cap Violet,” by William Black. M hat
knowledge, what insight to a womans lieait.
Ah, me! What espiSglerie! What sym-
patiea! And “Madcap Violet” dying before
she could be united with her Drummond . I
cried and cried ; and Reginald is to call on
papa this evening.
We hear that the dear Germans are be-
sieging Paris. The Germans are a
fearing nation, and are, furthermore, related
to our Gracious Queen. The I rench have
brought this upon themselves, Reginald says.
They showed so much brusquerie to their
churches, and of course have no sweet, pure
home life such as we know in beautiful
Christian England. Of course they began
wrong with Napoleon Bonaparte, Reginald
says; though the Empress Eugenie is so
distingue and genteel. Mamma pointed her
out to me one day in the Champs Elysees.
Paris must fall. Reginald says, because
they have not the open Bible as we have in
England. I asked him if the French were
fighting the Germans with closed Bibles,
but he called me “Little Puss” and “Sweet
One,” which is better than worrying about
the weapons used in this war. But how
glad I should lie to be a happy English
young lady! If I were born French I
might be in Paris now—without mamma or
“Madcap Violet” or nougat or the sweet purity
of a beautiful Christian English home. _ I
might even have no Reginald. I am faint
to think of it. (Mem. —I must wear smaller
hoops when he calls. These make me feel
so strangely distant, and Heaven knows I
love him with devotion.) I long to do some
noble deed, some unselfish work —something
altruistic and self-abnegatory—that I might
seem to deserve a little the heavenly boon
of Reginald’s love.
Jane! Send those wretched people away
from the window immediately. It doesn’t
matter if they are hungry. Papa pays poor
rates, and there is the workhouse, and they
are improvident and wasteful, Reginald
says.... They ought to be glad they’re not
in France, but in the sweet pure atmosphere
of Christian England—the Home of the
Open Bible, book divine. You understand !
Make them go away immediately or call the
constable.... I thought that would do it.
Firmness with the working classes, that’s
all you want, Reginald says. Poor “Madcap
Violet” ! How I cried over it. Isn’t William
Black daring. . . .Reginald says
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


Westinghouse- Gross
FOUR-CYCLE
Marine Oil Engines
.. . for .. .
Fishing Boats,
Cargo Vessels,
Large Auxiliaries,
Barges, etc.,
. . . are . . .
Simply Constructed,
Effectively Controlled,
and Extremely Flexible
in Speed and Power.
BUILT IN SIZES FROM
7 to 120 H.P.
Write for Particulars to
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Quaon.lanO Agents; i Church Brl.b«ne. WeJ , N J Wales
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike. Wellington.
£ *
becistireo
NOT a Boiler Fluid, but a Preparation containing Pure Carbon to be applied
to the internal surfaces of boilers like a paint. Absolutely prevents pitting and
corrosion and tjiie deposit of hard scale. Used regularly by the New South
"Wales Government Railways and Tramways, Sydney-. Municipal Council, and
many of the Largest Steam Users in Australia.
ULD’S REDUCING VALVES.
The World’s Standard Reducing Valve fpr Steam, Air or Water. Simple and
Reliable. Hundreds in use in Australia. We carry heavy stocks of all sizes.
ALSO AGENTS FOR-
-4
Engelbert’s Famous Oils, Nichols’ Boiler
Stirling Water Tube Boilers, etc., etc.
Feed Pumps,
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
$E
Lime Juice
Brings to your lips the juice of
the lime fruit.
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing.
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped from London.
MONTSERRAT is sold by all leading Storekeepers.
'/a
What ah Excursionist
Says:
“For an enjoyable outing or a holiday
Remington:UMC arms and ammunition
make the equipment complete. I al-
ways take a Remington:UMC shotgun or
rifle along on such trips. Maybe a little hunt-
ing; a little target shooting; maybe a little of
both —and I haven’t yet found the sport that
yields so much pleasure and profit. I know
when I am getting real recreation and I can
take my rifle or gun in my suit-case anywhere,
and don’t have to carry any tools. My 22
calibre rifle is my favorite for these excursions.’
Excursionists are careful to have
PemingtonrUMC
Y* , V, : * r ' , v #
Remington Arms—
Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
New York London
Catalogs free
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
may betaken with a perfect sense of security because they are entirely
free from any injurious substance and compounded only from the
purest ingredients ofvegetable origin. Beecham’s Pills are accordingly
quite safe for everyone. This fact should be clearly understood,
because it is of great importance that you should hhve confidence in the
medicine you use. Proof of the valuable properties, of this popular
preparation is supplied by an immense body of opinion, for Beecham’s
Pills have been in use for years in many thousands of homes, not only
in England but across the seas. At home and abroad they are esteemed
as the best Family Medicine to keep at hand for.those c6mmon ailments,
soprevalentin these days, arisingfrom disordered action of the stomach,
liver & kidneys. Beeeham’s Pills have a long and honourable record and
ARE A SEVENTY YEARS’ SUCCESS.
Sold everywhere In boxes, price 1/14 (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Conrineinp
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLO BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/b.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
eflectu all y
cuts short all
attacks et
SPASMS am) COLIC.
The Beet Medicine for
OOUOHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
The ooußh of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Aota like a charm In
DIARRHCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
Made in England.
w^\u air ' -v x
,* ~o>- t _ 0^
•
-Cn/ ' '
No need to be foolish
just because it*s Xmas
Every sovereign contains twenty whole shillings at Christmas time just the san'e
as all the rest of the year. Good value to the purchaser of presents means go
value to the recipient.
Shop until your feet are “ready to drop off’’—and you find no better value m
money than the Onoto self-filling safety fountain pen. Nor will you find a present
which is at once more tasteful or of more permanent service.
A. good fountain pen is always acceptable. An Onoto is thrice
because not only is it a pen of unsurpassed quality, but it has \be tw° ,dc
advantages: 1. It fills itself in a flash from any ink-supply. 2. It cannot le< ,
because a simple turn of the “head” renders tho Onoto a sealed tube.
The Onoto needs no filler. It cleans itself in filling. It can be carried in any
position without ever shedding a drop of ink.
Have you ten relatives or friends you want to make happy? Get IEN Onotos .
Make a note to get the all British
Onoto Pen
The Self-filling Safety Fountain Pen.
When you buy an Onoto tke packing and labelling will be done for you.
All you have to do is—go to the shop, give the assistant the addresses , and le
him to see to the posting. The Onoto is designed with a nib to suit every style
of handwriting, and if the nib selected is unsuitable it will be exchanged.
Price 12/- and in a variety of more elaborate styles for presentation purposes , in handsome
cases, of all Stationers, Jewellers and Stores. Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on application
to Thomas De La Rue & Co.. Ltd., 322. Bunhill Row, E C., or the Australasian Managing
Agents , Norman Baker Longhurst , JTo York Street, Sydney.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
V?jf '. h ■ ■ r h[, $; ~vf V • tv ;* * j A ‘ . ,v ; : ;* ~ ’
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
mM|CT)K|B ,., B!BI . ■»' — Eg—l I,
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manu.factu.rers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS' HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all pans of the world.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF P
begin to
x look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyer*’s
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and resto*es the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON'T LOOK OLD.


MANGROVITE 1
LEATHER
BELT!
is the ALL AUSTRALIAN BELT.
In buying it jou are not trading vflth the
enemy, nor adding to the profits of foreign
shareholders.
Sole Manufacturer and Proprietor:—
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 York Street, Wynyard Square, SYDNEY
(only).
Telephones: City 2898, 8406.
“ON THE HOP.’’—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
■
FOR
BUY
WHOLE
BOTTLES
SCHNAPPS
Hardie s Genuine
Used in place of Weatherboards and Piaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID 8 ANT PROOF
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES HARDIE * CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
and at Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
MACHINERY DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED merchant
MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY—and at Melbourne, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville, Adelaide, Perth.
'
TANCYE
LAMPLESS OIL ENGINE.
A marked improvement
in Kerosene Oil Engines.
Engine started immedi-
ately from cold. No
lamp required.
The best for Shearing,
Pumping, Chaffcutting,
Irrigating, etc.
TANCYE
SUCTION CAS PLANTS.
These Well-known and
Reliable Plants gene-
rate power for Mills,
factories, Mines, etc.,
at remarkably Low Cost.
Write us about them.
THE
ips^
m
mt
fS
mSSMmsSm
LU
t*
>o
iL Xjt cXo
w
CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH
STEAM and OIL TRACTORS.
Specially adapted Tor Plough-
ing Large Areas. Most gratify-
ing results have been obtained
in New South Wales with the
new “ Clayton ” Oil Tractor. It
works on ordinary kerosene.
NICHOLSON & MORROW
“ UNION ” FARM IMPLEMENTS.
“ Union ” Harvesters, Drills,
Cultivators and Ploughs are
Wonderfully popular with
Australian Farmers. Their
extra strong construction is
a notable feature.
o
TANGYE Winches, Chain Blocks, Lifting Jacks, Steam Engines and Boilers, Pumps, etc. MUNRO Chaffcutters. GANE Milking Machines.
WOLSELEY Crutchlng Plants.
i*
*
•*
tj**^*^?
»
For the GARAGE
and REPAIR SHOP
/
Even in the small garage and repair shop the installation of one of these little compressors is indispensable,
both from a point of economy and greater convenience.
INFLATING TYRES, CLEANING CARS AND INACCESSIBLE PARTS OF ENGINES, OPERATING SMALL
PNEUMATIC TOOLS, such as AIR HOISTS, RIVETING and CHIPPING HAMMERS, DRILLS, etc., are among the
numerous applications for which they are particularly recommended.
Call and inspect our Stock, or write for full descriptive Catalogue.
LACY CO.
engineers GSL Machinery Merchants,
OO Clarence Street, Sydney.
A USTRA LJA N MANUFA CTURE.
THE “GUTHRIDG”
Garbage DESTRUCTOR.
SMOKELESS EFFICIENT SIMPLE.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Health Department and the N.S.W. Education Department.
INVALUABLE FOR PRIVATE AND PUBLIC HOSPITALS AND PRIVATE RESIDENCES.
Manufactured by 11
N.
SYDNEY and
MEL BOURNE
'
r^'QUIitiZUJC
GARBAGE
oeATRUCT
iiifeiitwauifbri. mwttimMayyyfei
