

the Whisky ot Sterling Value
R. 6. WATKINS «SC CO.,
Machinery Merchants, ' 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
T lining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
I
U|
« - I
0
a
LU
I—
LU
CL
LU
Q
H
Z.
o
£
I
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. . . t Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
>159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melboi
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
iffii!
MPMRMH
; <\>-0. V.V
sirnigs.
-i
;ga:
*^nrt:wiTT*»i^rrr-m
■ ;iV *' ■l'l' ■i:i!li'llil ■ftilinli■aii;‘:,' ■ ‘ i *:i ■'
:afii";MlSilliPM!oppl©M!Q
COfIMOISSEDPf
W-
Supplied by the bottle, caee or gallon at
wholesale price.
Richardson’s
Wine & Spirit Stores
68 Market St.
SYDNEY.
158 Russell St.,
MELBOURNE.
S.H.B.
HUTTON*
IJAMS*BACG!I
CHDBBS
STEEL AND
CONCRETE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HA N S E N’S
J
L
USMEMm
For INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
*l9}oy luauOs.fiaipey
•xiarvaoEC
Pidmctfjcfcd, JvjuS
The Best for Rough Roads.
The impregnated rubber-cord foundation of these tyres enables
them to resist moisture, strain and friction. Catalogue free.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne.
m
m
MALTHOID
What Roof for Your New House?
Before you build your new house you should have a look at the White Malthoid
Roofs that are going up in and around Sydney. White Malthoid is not only
attractive as a roofing, but it is absolutely dependable. It will not crack, chip
nor rust. Wind will not blow it off; rain will not work under it. We’d be glad
to send you Samples and Booklets.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO.
(D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager),
CHALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L TI ?
M
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L”
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
vw
CON
Telegraphic Address —BACON, Murarrie, Queensland
HELIDON
SPA
Three reasons why HELIDON SPA triumphs as a Perfect Table Water:
Ist—Rapid absorption. 2nd—Rapid circulation. 3rd —Rapid elimination.
LTD., Agents,
St., Sydney, and Red fern
The Bulletin
V01.35—N0. 1818.]
[Thursday, December 17, 1914.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS BEAUTIFUL FOR CHRISTMAS GIFTS.
We are now showing a fine collection of Dainty Booklets, Art Color and Presen-
tation Books, Poets, and other Standard Works in Leather and other
Decorative Bindings. <
Autograph Stationery, Christmas and New Year Greetings knd** Artistic
Calendars in splendid variety.
Fountain Pens in all reliable makes, with Fine, Medium and Broad Points.
Swan, 10/6; Onoto, 12/-; Waterman, 12/6; Waverley, 10/6. Registered
Post extra
GEORGE ROBERTSON S CO. PROP'T'Y LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The house fly is the great carrier of disease,
and is aptly called the TYPHOID FLY.
sfi«
TRADE MARK.
MUSTDIE
The Great Insect Destroyer, is certain
to Plies, Mosquitoes, Pleas, Bugs and all
Insects.
Sold everywhere, Chemists, Grocers, Store-
keepers, 9d. per tin; or forward 9d. in
stamps to “Mustdie,” Dept. H., Box 1620
G.P.0., Sydney. [1
The Red Page
Tho War
Dr. E. J. Dillon is a diplomatic authority
who speaks the truth. A Scrap of Paper
(Hodder and Stoughton, Is. 6d. here) gives
the inner history, to which he is one oi the
few who have had access, of the German
diplomacy that has caused the war.
Teutonism, he says, is not merely a political
system, but a religious cult, one of whose
dogmas is that the chosen race of Germans
are far more numerous, and have always
been far more numerous, than the untutored
and un-Teutonie mind is apt to imagine.
The greatest artists of medieval Italy were
German; Christ himself has just been
discovered to be German. Turning now to
facts,, the lace manufactories of Belgium
and the trade in furs were wholly in German
hands; the elections to the municipality of
Antwerp weie run by the wealthy German
residents there. “A few years more of
peaceful penetration would have seen
Holland and Belgium linked by a postal,
and, perhaps, a Customs union with the
German Empire.” Unfortunately for this
new religion, ethnologically the Prussians
are not Germans at all. They are members
of a race occupying a place midway between
the Slavs and the Teutons. Their next-of-
kin are -the Lithuanians and the Letts. “The
characteristic traits of the old Prussians
are brutal arrogance to those under them,
and cringing servility toward their
superiors.” And now, “morality, once
cultivated by Germans with religious fervor,
has become the handmaid of politics, truth
is subservient to expediency, honor the
menial of the regiment.”
According to official German theology
Germany is now fighting a purely defensive
war against nations guilty of breaking their
pledged word, and of wantonly attacking
the peace-at-any-price Teutons. Yet during
March, April and May of this year Germany
bought enormous numbers of horses from
Ireland, great stores of corn were laid in,
and vast sums of gold were garnered in by
German financial institutions in England.
The mistakes made by German diplomacy,
leading German opinion to the conviction
that England, France and Bussia were not
to be feared, were due, Dillon ventures upon
the paradox, to the plethora of information
submitted to Germany. The Kaiser knew
too much, but his particularly German mind
utterly failed to understand the psychology
of these nations. “It is my unalterable
conviction that if Germany had been
delivered from this naive illusion respecting
Russia, and from certain others bearing
upon Ireland, the war now raging would
have been —postponed Despite her un-
doubted gifts of observation and analysis,
Prussianized Germany is entirely lacking in
the psychological sense. —In all her minute
calculations, Prussia’s materialistic leaders
lost sight of the spiritual, of the ideals that
haunt a nation’s soul and infuse into it in
moments of stress a superhuman strength
capable of working miracles.”
Prussia put up her immense and fatal
bluff sure that none of the Powers of the
Entente would move a finger to baulk
Austria of her prey. That she finds herself
now fighting the world was not her intention:
it is solely due to her stupidity. Any feeling
that one might have for a foe opposed to
such odds may be set aside; Germany struck
only because she thought her enemies were
paralysed. That is the sort of bully
Germany is.
Dillon asserts that even in Austria’s
declaration that she would not annex
Servian territory there was a curious wile.
The accent should be upon the she. Austria
would refrain from cutting up Servia for
herself. But it was resolved to partition
Servia among her neighbors—Bulgaria,
Turkey and Albania. Even Russia never
suspected this trap. These “cultured”
nations need watching.
Unfortunately for German cant, Dillon, in
a lucid sentence, puts the blame where it
belongs. “Great Britain sternly refusing to
offer the slenderest encouragement to either
of her friends, and straining their
forbearance to its uttermost limits by
demanding heavy strategical sacrifices of
each in the cause of conciliation; Russia
holding her hand, contented to follow
Germany’s moves feebly and at intervals,
and falling in with every suggestion made in
the interests of peace ; and France drawing
away her troops from the threatened
frontiers while Germany was mobilising—
these eloquent facts supply the most
complete answer to the questions who
wanted and who began the war.”
When Austria realised, with amazement,
that Russia would fight, she drew abjectly
back. Hastily she resumed negotiations;
and _ Grey was informed that the Russian
Minister and the Austrian Ambassador
“had practically reached an understanding
as to the guarantees which Servia might
reasonably be asked to give to Austria for
her future good behavior.” But Germany
intervened. The moment Austria became
conciliatory Germany assumed an attitude
of sheer aggression. She issued mobilisation
orders and ultimatums broadcast. But
always she thought that Britain would
stand aside. When the fact dawned upon
her that Britain was ready, she offered to
make sacrifices. She would promise not to
annex any French territory in Europe.
Once again we are dealing with “cultured”
diplomacy. Again put the accent on the she.
There was nothing in her offer to prevent
her encouraging Italy to incorporate Nice
and Savoy, as a bribe to her to assist
Germany in the war.
Dr. Dillon’s authority is sufficient for
this admirable and succinct account of the
hidden forces that made this war.
H. G. Wells, of course. We expected to
hear from Wells. The War that Will End
War (Palmer; Is. 3d.) is, by the time it
reaches Australia, a little belated. These
interesting articles belong to the early period
of the war; the natural assumptions of those
first weeks have been, in some cases, already
disproved. On his main point, however,
there is small reason for disagreement.
“This is now a war for peace. It aims
straight at disarmament. It aims at a
settlement that shall stop this sort of thing
for ever. Every soldier who fights against
Germany now is a crusader against war.
....It is the last war. England, France,
Italy, Belgium, Spain and all the little
countries of Europe are heartily sick of
war; the Czar has expressed a passionate
hatred of war; the most of Asia is unwar-
like ; the United States has no illusions
about war.... There shall be no more
Kaisers, there shall be no more Krupps.
That foolery shall end!....This war is not
going to end in diplomacy ; it is going to end
diplomacy.”
So Wells is sure that the world will for
ever abolish Private Enterprise in the manu-
facture of weapons. “Kings and Kaisers
must cease to be the commercial travellers
of monstrous armament concerns... .The
Krupp concern and the tawdry Imperialism
of Berlin are linked like thief and receiver;
the hands of the German princes are dirty
with the trade.” At the conclusion of peace
Wells suggests that the Government of each
State should make the manufacture of cannon,
rifles and ammunition, and the construction
of dockyards and warships a State mono-
poly. Already we begin to see that the
soldier whose wounds will be the worst in
this war is that inconspicuous combatant
named Pvt. Enterprise. Further, Wells
suggests that the controlling powers of the
world should neutralise the seas, so that to
launch an armed ship would be an invasion
of the common territory of the world. If
this neutralisation is possible on the great
American lakes it ought to be possible on
the rest of the liquid of this globe, including
the Kiel Canal.
For Wells insists that the old world has
disappeared in this universal deluge, and
that what of it emerges will be practically
virgin soil, eager for the germination of a
new crop of ideas. “It is manifest that in a
year or so the world of men is going to alter
more than it has altered in the last century
and a half, more indeed than it ever altered
before these last centuries since history
began.... Ideas that have ruled life as
though they were divine truths are being
chased and slaughtered in the streets. The
rights of property, for example, the sturdy
virtues of individualism... .vanished last
week suddenly.... They bolted, leaving
Socialism and Collectivism in possession.
The State takes over flourmills and the food
supply, not merely for military purposes, but
for the general welfare of the community.
The State controls the railways with* a
sudden complete disregard of shareholders.
There is not even a letter to Tiie Times to
object.”
Yes, the thank-offering of the world for
peace should take the form of a monument
over the grave of that incompetent and
narrow-minded warrior, slain at the Front
(and also at the rear) —Pvt. Enterprise.
&
The finest war fiction yet written is The
Secrets of the German War Office, by Dr.
Armgaaru Karl Graves, German spy (Aus-
tralasian Edition. George Robertson and
Cos., 2s. 6d.). This book was first pub-
lished in the U.S.A. in August, but the pub-
lishers note that the completed MS. had been
in their hands since June. It is an aston-
ishing production. Graves states that he
was a German spy, that he became too
dangerous to the Kaiser by his possession
of important military and diplomatic secrets,
that he was sent to spy upon the Rosyth
naval base, and there caught and sentenced
to a short term of imprisonment. In prison
he was shown what he regarded as indisput-
able proofs that the German Government had
deliberately betrayed him to the British, with
the intention of putting him out of harm’s
way, in a British prison, for a term of years.
Thereupon Graves “ratted” to the British,
and was employed by Britain for a short
period against Germany, as a spy. Shortly
before the war he “retired” from the service,
and devoted his leisure to writing, in the
U.S.
That is a summary of his own statement of
his career. He mentions certain facts in
corroboration. One was that in June, 1913,
questions were asked in the House of Com-
mons about the German spy, Graves, sen-
tenced for espionage some time previously,
and the facts were elicited that Graves had
been released, that the Secretary for Scot-
land had no knowledge of Graves’s nation-
ality, and “that it would not be in accord-
ance with precedent to state reasons for
the exercise of the prerogative.” And the
story ended recently in the shooting of a
German spy, who gave his name as Lody,
in the Tower of London. The evidence
points strongly to the fact that Graves and
Lody were the same man—once again, on
the outbreak of war, he had “ratted” to his
old employers, and had paid the war-time
penalty of discovery.
The reader of this book may have his
doubts about the capacity of Graves as a
spy, but none at all about his ability to
write “secret service” fiction. This series
of amazing adventures is infinitely more ex-
citing and dramatic than anything ever penned
by the professional writers of sensations,
from Doyle to “Bellerive.” Graves may have
been an excellent spy; he may have made
money at his job; but he would have become
a millionaire if he had stuck to fiction. He
went from one adventure to another. He
tells us of the making of a secret agent:—
“During those five months. I was kept at
a steady grind of schooling in certain things.
... .Broadly, tliey could be divided into tour
classes—topography, trigonometry, naval
construction and drawing.... A secret ser-
vice agent sent out to investigate and report
on the condition, situation and armament of
a fort like Verdun in France must be able
to make correct estimates of distances,
height, angles, conditions of the ground,
etc. This can only be done by a man of the
correct scientific training The same
applies to the subject of naval construction.
After a month of tutelage, I was able to
tell the various types of torpedoes, sub-
marines and mines, etc., in use by the
principal Powers. I could even tell by the
peculiar whistle it made whether the tor-
pedo that was being discharged was a White-
head or a Brennan. I was also drilled in
the construction of every known kind of
naval gun.... For days at a time I was
made to sit before charts and study the sil-
houetttes of every known varying type of
war-craft.”
The adventures of Sherlock Graves in-
cluded the dramatic prevention of the marriage
of a Kussian Grand-Duke’s heir to an Eng-
lish girl, and a sensational Monte Carlo
intrigue. But these were merely preliminary
flights. Graves cheerfully lets us into the
innermost secrets of European diplomacy.
Who was it that prevented war between
Germany and France over Morocco? Arm-
gaara Karl Graves and the Kaiser! It was
(graves whom the Kaiser entrusted with
secret verbal messages to the commandant of
the Panther, then under orders to proceed
to Agadir. The Kaiser —and Graves —in-
tervened, unknown to the highest officials of
the Foreign Office. The Kaiser —through
Graves —ordered the captain of the Panther
to disregard every order, every provocation,
to open fire on the French or British ships
of war. So when the whole nation thought
that the Panther had come to Agadir to
stay, and when the British and French
officers had sent an uitimatum to the Pan-
ther, that boat steamed away. The Kaiser
had found out what he wanted to know:
the French and the British were allies. It
was a master-stroke by the Kaiser: the
secret of its launching was known to only
two men, one of which was Armgaard Karl
Graves.
But this chapter is but cheap sensational-
ism compared with the secret treaty drafted at
a hunting lodge in the Schwarzwald, in Octo-
ber, 1911, by Haldane, Lord Chancellor of
England; Winston Churchill, First Lord of
the Admiralty ; Admiral Tirpitz ; the German
Minister of Foreign Affairs; the chi4f of the
German army staff; and the Austrian Mini-
ster of War! With all the cherished melo-
dramatic precautions usual in such stories
this secret treaty was drafted by these high-
placed international conspirators, with the
dastardly object of isolating France ! “Ger-
many had shown England the greater advan-
tage of a German-English coalition, and
France is frozen out.” It is a delightful
fantasy, unfortunately obliterated by the
facts of the px-esent war. And it is written
with an elaborate pretence of fact, quite
in the best manner of our popular novelists.
On his mission to England Graves got his
information about the new 14in. guns in the
approved melodramatic way. “A word of
advice to the Admiral. Do not talk so much
when you go motor-boating with pretty
young musical comedy girls. You see,
Admiral, I made it my business to see those
young ladies in Glasgow. What an interest
they took in you —a great Admiral!_ It was
you, Admiral, whom I thank for aiding me
in securing the right persons from which the
secrets of your new 14in. gun could be
obtained.”
When Lody, was shot in the Tower the
world lost its most brilliant Sherlock Holmes.
J*
Two books that should, from their titles, be
interesting at this moment are: The' German
Army from Within, and The Russian Army
from Within, the former written by a British
officer who has served in the German army,
and the latter by W. Barnes Steveni (Hod-
der and Stoughton ; 25.). But the respective
authors write ramblingly; and it is only an
occasional sidelight that interests us. The
British officer points out the outstanding dif-
ference between the German and the British
conception of an army. The German maxim
is that the greatness of an army lies with its
directors. The British axiom is that an
army’s greatness lies with its men. He ex-
plains the German atrocities by the fact that
the common sensibilities of the German,
peasant and cultivated, are blunter than those
of any other civilised race, and what is
horror to us is mere horseplay to hfin. The
author has much of interest to tell of the
brutal discipline that runs through the whole
army, beginning in the cadet college. “You
stood amiably at attention,” while your cor-
poral kicked you. There is much, too, about
the almost compulsory habits of drinking, and
the utter lack of games in the soldier’s life.
“Practically, the evening life of every garri-
son is given up to the worship of Bacchus or
Venus, or both.” But Bilse’s sensational book,
Life in a Garrison Town, is true only of life
at a frontier post, in a transport division, the
refuge of all who fail to make good in the
army. The author finds that he can train
the British recruit in at least half the time
it takes to train a German recruit. “Because
the German is slow and plodding, it does not
follow that he is more thorough. He isn’t.”
The Polish recruit is a mule—a problem
which has never yet been solved. Another
difference between the rival armies is the
lack of good-fellowship between German offi-
cers of high and low rank, and between
non-coms, and men.
The weakness of the German machine is in
its transport. The author discloses how weak
this service is, how it is looked down upon—
and we know how it failed at LiSge. The
author emphasises a point overlooked by Aus-
tralians —that every German of any ability is
an unofficial spy; for the principle maintained
is that it is every man’s duty to report to
his home authorities anything which comes
to his ears or which may be of use to his
own country. What the army thinks of the
Kaiser as a Napoleon may be inferred from
the frequent remark by veteran German
officers: “When Germany does go to war, we
hope Me will not lead us ! We want to win!”
The paramount position of the War-Lord
does not produce great generals. “Were von
Moltke alive to-day I should feel a little
anxious for the Allies. Such an army, with
such a leader at its head, would surely accom-
plish wonders; for its defects, great as they
are, would be remedied by that great soldier
the moment they were brought to his notice.
But the army has not a leader of that calibre.
One may say, indeed, that it has not a leader
at all; it is badly in need of one. For there
are divided counsels in the field, due,. for the
most part, to the strained domestic rela-
tions existing between the Crown Prince and
his father. The army is not so much a
clav-footed idol, I fear, as an idol of which
the head is clay.”
J*
Steveni tells us little that is illuminating
about the Russian Army; but his small-talk
entertains. The scale of pay in the Russian
army is strikingly modest. A general gets
from £3OO to £SOO a year. The Russian
soldier is the worst paid in Europe; practi-
cally he receives only tobacco money, and no
wages. An infantry soldier receives only
ninepence a month, his sergeant draws about
half a crown. But the soldier is allowed to
work for wages outside the army. And the
army must be almost as sociable as that of
the Commonwealth. “I have frequently seen
a simple soldier approach a Colonbl or a -
General and ask him for a light as a matter
of course.” Yet to the private an officer is
always an officer, also a barin (gentleman),
whether familiar, intoxicated or sober.
Germany has made the terrible mistake of
judging the Russian army by what hap-
pened in the Japanese War. During that
war revolution kept her finest troops at
home: she sent reservists and irregulars
against the enemy. The present. war is
popular with every class; and _it is being
fought at Russia’s front door. Like England,
Russia’s history shows how frequently she
suffered setbacks at the opening of her wars,
but how she won in the end.. “The longer
the war lasts the more formidable the Rus-
sian soldier will become.” “Life is worth
a farthing!” is a universal Russian saying.
Steveni mentions the Russian’s drunkenness;
but we know how dramatically the No-
License ukase has cured that.
Nothing better con’d be imagined for this
Cliristmas-stoush season than Harry J.
Weston’s hilarious book of colored drawings,
entitled All’s Well with the Fleet! (2s. 6d.,
printed in six colors by the Australasian
News Cos., C.A.). Weston’s tar, especially
the Australian species, is a thing of beer,
girls, biff and glory. These 12 pictures
should find a place in every vessel of our
navy, and in many a billiard-room beside,
since the binding allows them to be
separately framed. The artist’s method
may be inferred from these examples:
“H.M.S. Terrible” shows merely a landscape
composed of three empty beer bottles, a
girl’s hat, a red parasol, and a tar’s cap
upon it, with the name of the ship showing.
Behind that there is only a bush or two.
And the cover shows a sailor with “H.M.A.S.
Sydney” on his cap, with one eye bandaged
and the other smiling. > Send it to your
pals in Pharaoh-land.
The publishing trade is beginning to
revive: it has turned all its energies into the
only class of book now in demand, war pub-
lications. The latest issues include: Our
Just Cause (Heinemann, Is.), an apt and
readable compilation of facts about the war,
prepared by the Royal Colonial Institute;
On Active Service (The World’s Work,
2s. 6d.), containing notes for subordinate
leaders, by Major G. P. A. Phillips; Nursing
in War Time, by M. N. Oxford (Methuen,
Is.).
“E.J.H.”: In a review of McCabe’s study of Shaw
(8., Red Page, 19/11/T4) the former is quoted as
saying that Shaw stands almost alone in denying
natural selection altogether. This is not in accord-
ance with facts. There are biologists who refuse to
accept the theory at all. There are others who will
accept it only with modifications. EquaVy incorrect
is McCabe’s statement that the overwhelming
majority of biologists l eject vitalism. There is a
strong tendfency among scientists of the present day
to recede from the old “materialistic” position.
Driesch, Reinke, Wilson, von Bunge, Haldane, Lodge
and Leonard Hile cannot be airily set aside as “only
Jesuit writers and uncultivated Methodists.” For
the rest, the sneer at Jesuit writers is quite uncalled
for. Jesuits like Wasmann, Cortie, Algue—to men-
tion no others —are of at least equal standing in the
scientific world with McCabe. They are first-hand
and original workers, not mere purveyors of second-
hand scientific knowledge. But McCabe, accustomed
to writing for and talking to uncritical and credu-
lous “Rationalist” audiences, has developed a habit
of making wide, sweeping generalisations unsupported
by any evidence. He and his kind are really anti-
rationalists.


a
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for PRESENTATION CLOCKS.
Ansonia Clocks set a standard of Accuracy that place them
in the front rank of popular timekeepers. The assort-
ment of Marble, Wood, Bronze, Enamelled Iron and Por=
celain Clocks we offer cannot be equalled south of the line.
w
The Aden Ansonia, Black Walnut
Eight-Day Clock; Half-hour Strike.
Height, 22in.; Dial, 6in 12/-
The Venice Ansonia (as illustrated, but with
visible escapements), Black Enamelled Iron
Clock, Eight-day Time, Half-hour Strike, Cathe-
dral Gong; sin. Dial. Height, lOgin.; Width,
16iin 35/-
The Berlin Enamelled Iron
Ansonia, Eight-Day Clock, Half-
hour Strike, Cathedral Gong.
Height, 9+in.; Width, lljin. ; Dial,
25/-
The Arlington Ansonia, Black
Walnut iJight-Day Clock, Half-hour
Strike, Cathedral Gong. Height,
22iin. ; Dial, 6in 13/6
T'he Capri Ansonia, Enamelled Iron Eight-Day Clock ; Half-
hour Strike, Cathedral Gong. Height, 1 2}in. ; Width, 15in.
Dial, sin 41 j
'1 12
9 1
7t
3 5
The Bright Ansonia, Fancy
Gilt Clock, One-dav Time.
Height, 6iin. ; Porcelain Dial,
2in. 10/6
The Brook Ansoma,
Fancy Gilt Clock, One-Day
Time. Height, sJin. ; 2in.
Porcelain Dial .... 10/6
S
The Pinafore Ansonia, Eight-Day Marble Clock, Half-
hour St "ike, Cathedral Gong. Height, 9Hn. ; Width,
14iin.; Dial, 50
The Dover Ansonia, Enamelled
Iron Eight-Day Clock; Half-hour
Strike; Cathedral Gong. Height,
lOjin. ; Width, 9-lin. ; Dial, 54in.
21/-
ss
WK JUfc,
asira@i| e
iHr Jk
wrPm
m
The King Ansonia, Black
Walnut Eight-Day Clock, Half-
hour Strike, Cathedral Gong.
Height, 24in. : Dial, 6in. With
Alarm ' 22/-
Without Alarm 21 / -
The Windsor Ansonia,
Black Walnut Eight-Day Clock,
Silvered Cupids, Plate Glass
Mirrors, Half-hour Strike, Cathe-
dral Gong. Height, 21 jin. ;
Dial, sin. ... 23/-
V £
The Parisian Ansonia,
Black Walnut Eight-Day Clock,
Half-hour Cathedral Gong
Strike. Height, 23in. ; Dial,
fiin 18/6
r?
-i
The Barco Eight-Day
Ansonia, Marble Clock, Half-
hour Strike. Height, 12iin. ;
Width, 9in.; Dial, sin. 42/-
400-Day Gilt Clock, Enamelled
Dial, complete with Glass Shade.
Height, ILin. Huns for 400 days
without rewinding. A Reliable
Timekeeper and a Handsome
Present 27/6, 30/-
SEND
FOR
PRICE
LISTS,
POSTED
FREE
ON
REQUEST.
The Chopin Ansonia, Eight-Day Marble Clock, Half-hour Strike; Cathedral
Gong ; Height, 9Jin. ; Width, 15£in. ; Dial, sin 50 /-
FREIGHT
MUST
BE
ADDED
TO
THE
PRICES
QUOTED.
The Triumph Ansonia, Black W al-
nut, Plate Glass Mirrors, Silver
Cupids, Eight-Day, Half-hour Strike,
Cathedral Gong. Height, 24« n.;
Dial, 6in 29/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Qniy Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TRAPC MARK,
Swsfis
w««ims
fttor
NHaSp ■
mat* hi
I&WOUT
OFT
would.
point
• 3i
F
SM
ss
From Ingot to Case
Through all the various processes of manufacture,
from the metal in the ingot, or from the other raw
materials, to the packing in the shipping cases,
Winchester Rifle, Pistol and Shotgun Cartridges
are constantly watched over and inspected by
experts. This system of manufacture produces
ammunition as perfect as it can be made.
That is why
WINCHESTER
CARTRIDGES
enjoy the highest reputation for quality and de-
pendability. That is why they are the first
choice of shooters everywhere and the biggest
selling brand on the market. Winchester
Cartridges are made for all kinds of rifles,
revolvers and shotguns. All reputable
dealers keep them and will supply your
wants.
Ask For The w Brand
Do you really enjoy yourself ?
You can never get the best out of life, if you are
continually suffering from sluggish liver, indigestion
and frequent headaches. To overcome and avoid
these disorders is, however, such a simple proceed-
ing that no matter how often or how long you have
been subject to these attacks, you can look forward
to enjoying immediately the best of health and hap-
piness by taking Cockle’s Antibilious Pills.
Cockle’s Pills
A REPUTATION OF OVER 100 YEARS.
Cockle’s Pills regulate the system, tone up the liver and improve
the digestion, enabling the processes ol the body to be carried out
quietly and steadily, while you remain blissfully unconscious of
their working and free to enjoy every moment of life. Cockle s
Pills are made from the prescrip-
tion of the famous Dr. Cockle.
,/
The first Steamship to
cross the Atlantic
was the “ Great Western ” which made her first
trip in 1838 taking 15 days on the voyage.
There can be little doubt but that she carried a
supply of Cockle’s Pills for they were the most
popular remedy in England at that time and their
fame was rapidly spreading all over the world.
COCKLE'S PILLS
cf Chemists throughout
the World. Prices in
England, 2/90 box
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRADE MARK
SPLENDIL 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra long range.
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/6. D.8.8.L. GUN, fitted with
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified steel barrels,
walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN EXCELLENT
KILLER. Holiday Price, £3/10/- D.8.8.L. GUN, choke and modified steel
barrels. Government Tested. THE FARMER’S FRIEND. Special Price.
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 22 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice and
light. A very accurate little weapon. THE YOUTH’S FAVORITE. Holiday
Price, 14/6. CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent ejector. Takes .22
long, .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best sellers. Holiday
Price, 18/6. Write for Our Catalogue.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Largest Importers of Arms asrl Ammunition in tho Commonwealth
242-4 BOU3KE STREET, MELBOURNE.
mi a
E>
L
D
w>
©
o
©
with B.S.A. 4 h.p. Engine
B.S.A. Countershaft Three-Speed Gear.
It will take a sidecar and passenger up almost any hill with
power to spare.
It is superior to high-powered machines, it requires less
attention, easier to handle, costs less to run, and is
equally suitable for solo or sidecar work.
It is perfectly balanced. The weight is evenly distributed,
the back wheel being free from over loading.
The transmission is protected against mud,
dust and wet. Smooth reliable running
in all weathers is thus assured.
“THOROUGHLY
BRITISH.”
B.S.A. Motor Bicycle List Free.
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A, Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
m
mi
m
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY HORPCRN <& SONS LTD.,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
M
"I’m an Old Hand
at the Game.
And you can take it from me that
Danks’ is the place for the Tools in
our Line. You get the Most Reliable
Makes, the Most Up-to-date Ideas, and
you don’t have to pay too much for
them. I believe in the Best, and
Always Get Satisfaction in going
there.”
50 SAYS THE ENGINEER.
HERE’S A LINE OR TWO.
ELECTRICIANS’ INSULATED PLIERS.. 2/-
ELECTRICIANS’ INSULATED SCREW-
DRIVERS 1/4
TAPE MEASURES, in case, 66ft., from 1/6
EXTENSION HACK SAWS.
STOCKS AND DIES FROM BEST MAKERS.
FILES FOR SHARPENING METAL-CUTTING
SAWS.
WRENCHES FOR ALL PURPOSES.
TINMAN’S STAKES AND BTOK IRONS.
EMERY WHEELS, BRASS FITTINGS, TUBE AND PIPE OF ALL KINDS, etc., etc.
SOME BARGAINS IN LATHES.
John Danks & Son Propty., Ltd.,
324 Pitt Street, near Liverpool Street f Sydney.
A/so at 391 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
M
HEAR
LATEST 8-TONE
Hears Ear-phone
The final triumph of the inventor of the first successful multi-tone
Ear-phone. IF YOU ABE DEAF, this perfected instrument will enable
you to hear DISTINCTLY, PEBi-ECTLY.
Eight Tones ! 8 different adjustments to suit every condi-
tion of the ear. Instantly changed by a touch of the
finger. Just as easily and as satisfactorily regulated for
the hearing as field-glasses are for the sight. Thus ensur-
ing perfect hearing in all degrees of deafness.
The Mears Ear-nhone is based on the microphonic sound-
reproducing principle. Highly sensitive and self-adjusting it intensifies the faintest sounds to just
.that degree required in ordinary conversation, or in the Church or Lecture Hall. Comfortably carried
in the vest pocket or pinned to the blouse. Call and test it free, or write for full particulars.
Australasian
Representative—
A. E. SLADE,
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 George Street,
SYDNEY.
SYDNEY: A. E. Slade, Bernard’s Buildings, 387 George Street.
MELBOURNE: L. G. Callaway & Down, Tuckett Chambers, 361 Collins Street.
BRISBANE: Carl Zoeller Ltd., 246 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE: Chas. Balfour, Central Chambers, Charles Street.
HOBART: Chas. Davis Ltd., Elizabeth Street.
AUCKLAND: Clem Bartley, 8 Ponsonby Road.
Mears Ear-phone Co. Inc., 45 West 34th St., New York, U.S.A.
TOOTH &. CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney


M
After Shooting,
Clean your Gun with
“3-in-One” Oil!
You will shoot all the better next
time !
“ 3-in-One’
contact-points
and makes
smoothly.
’ Oil goes right to
reduces lriction,
action-parts work
Polishes the stock.
Removes residue of burnt powder
from barrel and breech. Free from
grease; never thickens; keeps
guns in perfect condition !
“ Three-in-One ” Oil is highly
refined, water-white, sweet smell-
ing, and most cleanly in use.
Obtainable everywhere.
Free Sample Bottle on request!
REID & REID,
Australasian Agents,
82 R. Harris Street, Wellington, N.Z.
M
10-HAINES ADV.
WORLD'S CYCLE RECORD
Est. 35 yrs.'
M. Planes on a 7 year 01. l British-made All-
Steel Mead Modele Superbe
* COVENTRY FLYER 9
Rode 34,366 Miles in 368 Days
(officially authenticated'. Beat over 650 com-
petitors on up-to-date cycles.
MEAD CYCLES STAND THE TEST.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Dunlop Tyres, Variable-Speed Gears, etc.
siopojtf
q.se^‘B a x
£3-10 to £9
Direct from factory, Packed Free, Carriage
Paid to your port. Ten Days’ Free trial.
Motor Cycles and Cycle-Cars at Factory
Prices. Write for Free Art Catalogue,
and Marvellous Offers. Agents Wanted.
CYCLE COMPANY,
(Dept. A 282 ), LIVERPOOL.
MEAD
WAR
Prompt Shipment $ Safe Delivery
Guaranteed. No Advance in Prices
AGENT for MEAD
■TV VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade,
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND.
CYCLES—
Melbourne.
ALL MODELS.
LETTERS COPIED WHILE WRITING
(in ink) by using your own Letter-paper_
with this Book. Vou slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing you
secure a perfect letter and a
perfect copy. There is no
M
M
M
sign of copying. 400 octavo Bin. x sin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/200 Book, size 10* x
B§, post free 4/6; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Bin. x 6in., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper which
produces this result, free if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic, Leicester, England.
Zanetic goods obtainable from Sands & McDougall,
Ltd., Collins Street West, Melbourne, and Branches
at Adelaide and Perth.
“ON THE HOP.” —A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
MSI
ImWSi
0
Hr lull
M m
Ql|
M
ELEY *32
S. & W.
Revolver
M
ELEY '3B
S. & W.
Revolver
. ELEY
['Comet*
A deep-shell
dark green
Cartridge
loaded with
Eley (33 gr.)
S mokeless
Powder and
IJ-oz. shot.
ELEY
‘Achilles'
A deep-shell
dark blu q
gastight Car-
tridge loaded
with Eley (63
gr.) Smoke*
, less Powder
, and l^ g oz,
| shot
M
ELEY *303 Rifle
(Mark VI) lor
British Service
Rifles.
!!1U life,
I'M'ill
rfci
m
i
igl
©
■
ELEY *25
Automatic
ELEY *32
Automatic
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George "Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
Wholesale: Eley Bros., Ltd,, London
..
M
M
Kerr*
m
m
safes
L<sre of S* Ba.rfholome'x/.s aoid Qcjyg l~iogpita.l^LOWDON.vi/htes
July 9th, 1913.
Dear Sirs,—l am pleased to bear testimony to the merits of your “Bonning-
ton’s Irish Moss,” which, personally, I have proved to be a valuable and safe
remedy for all bronchial and throat affections. .
I have never failed to recommend it to my patients and friends, m coughs
and colds, as I deem it a most valuable preparation. (Sgd.) NURSE KERR.
A CHARMING FICURE
Within Every Woman’s Reach
The lack of a well-rounded, nicely-formed bust deprives a woman
of four-fifths of the charm that would otherwise be hers.... Are your
cheeks sunken and hollow ? Have you deep lines around your mouth
and eyes? Are your arms thin and scrawny? And is your chest flat
and your bosom undeveloped? Do your shoulder-blades and the “salt-
cellars” that form at your throat make evening dress almost a tragedy ?
Are you so thin that your clothes merely hang on you ?
MRS. V. GRAHAM, of Stanley Street, Richmond, tells in the fol-
lowing letter of her release from the thraldom of poor development
and deficient figure:—
“Your treatment is wonderful, and I have to thank
Dr. FAELIERE’S FLESH-FOOD for not only restoring
my health, but for building up my figure and develop-
ing my bust to my entire satisfaction. I am better in
every way from its use, and it did exactly what you
A
'! -0 -%
wmiis,
w
claimed it would from its use, and even more quickly than you stated."
In many cases bust measurements have been increased by over ten inches, and the gain in
actual weight—equally distributed over the body in generally deficient cases —has been over five
pounds weekly. Some other cases have shown an increase in weight of even a pound a day. The
average bust increase desired is about six inches, and is readily accomplished. Results guaranteed.
FLESH-FOOD offers relief and development to the thousands of chronically thin women who
have despaired of ever possessing a presentable figure. It is a nerve and tissue food treatment
that adds weight and permanent development to attenuated women. We have not space here, but
if you will write or call, we will give you hundreds of testimonials from grateful, happy women.
LET US SEND YOU A FREE TRIAL SAMPLE.
We want you to know just what FLESH-FOOD is, and will gladly give you a free sample.
Send a 2d. stamp, and let us forward a free trial sample and our instructive book on attenuation,
“LOVELY WOMAN.” FLESH-FOOD is put up in tablet form, and can be secretly taken if de-
sired. All correspondence is confidential and private, and all our literature is sent closely
covered and free from observation. Write at once. You are placed under no obligation what-
ever to buy because you send for sample. It is ABSOLUTELY FREE. CALL IF CONVENIENT.
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO., 1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY. [1822i
ill I!
M
“HAND ICE
MACHINE”
Ice made by this machine.
Makes 2 lbs. of
Hard Ice in any
Climate in 15
minutes.
Guaranteed by us,
the Australasian Agents.
Agents wanted in other
States and Towns.
Write for particulars.
THE PLANT.
Price - - £l2/10/-
ELLEOTT, DONALDSON & DOUGLAS LTD.,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
In replying to the Advertisement, please mention this paper.
Tobacco
M
Kills!
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse. tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, “ The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR (B. CO.,
Dept. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. [4
“ON THE HOP.” —A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Hava you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do yon
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Cnn you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women <fc children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 11.5 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Earth—1914.
Far out in' the chill night spaces.
Where wheel the wondrous stars,
A Watcher stood on a mountain,
High set on the planet Mars.
Alone on his midnight vigil,
lie —eyed as an eagle, keen—-
Saw star, star-dust and planet
With darkness in between.
Like gems in the lamplight twisted,
To show the fires they hold.
The orbs burned red, burned golden—
Now flamed, and now grew cold.
As flies through a sunbeam speeding,
The meteors flashed and gleamed ;
Set high in fixed, fair splendor
The constellations beamed.
There shone in his might Orion,
And there the Pleiades.
His eyes upon the skyline,
The Watcher sought not thhse.
He sought for a light, a wonder,
A dream, a dawn, a birth,
The coming of a splendor,
The rising of the Earth.
For, pale with a mystic meaning,
And pure as a cloistered nun,
She wheeled with her Sisters Seven
In the Household of the Sun.
And night by night from his mountain,
The Watcher of Stars had seen
Her —white, round, fair and tranquil—
Arise and glow serene.
She seemed as a benediction,
A fair flower dropping balm,
The Orb of Peace, the Planet—
The Star of Perfect Calm.
* * * *
She rose, and the lonely Watcher,
From his high station, saw
A sight that stilled his pulses
And chilled his blood with awe.
For not as a flower, not tranquil,
Nor pure as winter snows,
Upon that Martian midnight
The planet Earth arose.
But red as a new wound bleeding—•
Moist red, with a sullen light,
A gashed thing, worn and troubled,
She glowered upon his sight.
Far out, in the Outer Spaces,
That Watcher of the Skies.
With mute lins —set eyes staring..
Beheld the Earth arise.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Heroes.
In that Valhalla, where the heroes go,
A careful sentinel wandered to and fro
Before the gate, burned black with battle
smoke,
Whose echoes to the tread of armed men
woke.
And up the fiery stairs, whose steps are
spears,
Came the pale heroes of the blood-stained
years.
There were lean Caesars from the gory
fields;
With heart that only to a sword thrust
yields. .
And there were Generals decked in pride ot
rank,
Bed scabbards swinging from the weary
flank;
And slender youths, who were the sons ot
kings,
And barons with their sixteen quarterings;
And while the nobles went with haughty
air .
The courteous sentinel questioned: Who
goes there?”
And as each came full lustily he cried
His string of titles ere he passed inside.
And presently there was a little man,
A silent mover in the regal van.
His hand still grasped his rifle, and his eyes
Seemed blinded with the light from Para-
dise.
His was a humble guise, a modest air,
The sentinel held him sharply: “Who goes
there ?”
There were no gauds tacked to that simple
name,
But every naked blade leaped out like
flame,
And every blue-blood warrior bowed his
head ;
“I am a Belgian private”—this he said.
Men’s cheering echoed through the battle’s
Hell:
“Pass in. mon brave,” said that wise sen-
tinel.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Seventeen.
He that crushed her as a flower,
Underfoot. .. .1 pray that he
Hear when in his darkest hour
Tolls the bell of misery!
Hour by hour the prison bell —
“Seventeen !. .. . Seventeen !”
Soon ’twill drone her knell as well,
Soon her grave grass will be green—
Green as the neglected grave
Where her sinless babe is laid ;
Inwardly her terrors rave. . . .
Death ! her mother-heart’s afraid !
Hour by hour the prison bell.
“Seventeen ! Seventeen !”
Hour by hour the sullen ce11....
Silence, silence in between!
He that crushed her as a flower.
Underfoot. I pray that he
Hear when in his darlcest hour
Tolls the hell of misery!
N.s.w.
W. M. W.


Aluminium Makes Electricity a Still More
Economical Servant
Because it is half the weight of Copper for the same current-carrying capacity, and 30%
cheaper m cost. F
Electricity-Aluminium and W. G. Watson’s
are linked together
because we are the Sole Australian Representatives of the British Aluminium Co. Ltd.
t\\ e are going to appoint Inter-State Agents—write us direct.) Aluminium is used
101 Insulated Cables, Switch Connections, Tube Sections, Fittings for Rolling Stock,
Stranded Conductors, and in a host of other ways.
Let us send you our leaflet of Aluminium facts.
W. G. WATSON & CO. LTD.,
Suppliers of Everything: Electrical,
279 Clarence Street; 426-430 Kent Street, Sydney.
Just round from the Town Hall.
Electric Light Available for Every Home and Shop.
f
rss
mg
4 MlV'.' V
No need to wait, until the Council erects a Power Station, etc. You
can have a self-contained Plant, occupying a 9ft. x 4ft. floor space,
delivered ready for work, in a “LISTER-BRUSTON” AUTO-
MATIC ELECTRIC LIGHTING PLANT. It makes Elec-
tricity itself —
the Engine and
Dynamo start
themselves when
the lights are
switched o n.
There’s no need
to have an En-
gineer round
the place to
run one. There
are over 1000
Plants in use
now. Be the
first in YOUR
Town. Ask for
particulars TO-
DAY from—
AGENTS: N.S.W.—W. C. Watson & Co., Ltd., 278 Clarence Street, Sydney
VlC.—Sutherland & Ashman, Flinders Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND—Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd., Creek Street, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALlA—Clutterbuck Bros., Adelaide.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
Uiiiiii ;::m ,
n o™°. r .? ook - CURES Write for Book
blight, falling eyelashes, weak sight
b. OrKEEN, 210. Lambeth Road. London. Eng.
Insist on Singleton s’ —refuse all substitutes.
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES'
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you'll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
tin now. 1/6. posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
2] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane,
SUNSHINE ENGINES
mm
s»sr
Made in Australia, with the finest machining plant procurable in the United
Kingdom. Sizes made: 3,5, 7 and 10 8.H.P., in Stationary and Portable Types.
Built for long years of service. Simple to manage. Magneto Ignition. Very
light in consumption of Petrol. Ask for Booklet giving actual users’ opinions.
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
*
For IRRIGATION and other PUMPING JOBS.
Low in first cost. Cheap to install and run.
Write for “Sunshine Farm Implements,” 48 pages, illustrated. Sent post free
to any address, and worth having.
H.Y. McKAY, Sunshine Harvester Works
Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
56 North Terrace, Adelaide.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
102 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
USE THE HOSE
And
let it
be a
length
of
M
“ ’Tis the
Hose that
Makes
the
Difference.”
“WATERSHED”
REP RUBBER AUSTRALIAN-MADE HOSE.
%in. x 3-ply, 1/- ft., or
COft., complete with spray nozzle and tap union 32/-
GOft., complete with spray nozzle and tap union 60/9
Catalogue and Samples Post Free. Carriage extra.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
Australian Manufacturers of All Rubber Goods,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane
M
PRICE SAME AS
BEFORE THE WAR
<d
The war has not meant any increase in the selling price
of Shi-noleum. It is as economical as ever it was.
It brings up a fine finish on linoleum, furniture, tan boots,
and all leather goods.
Absolutely insist on Shi-noleum at its original price.
If not in stock or said to be increased in price during the war, send for a
free sample to The Paget Manufacturing Co., Ltd., 109 Regent St.,
Sydney, and mention the name of your storekeeper.
a
jr
fj9
WORLD OVER
A Thoughtful, Sensible Gift
for His Christmas —
a Gillette Safety Razor. The Gillette is
that rare thing —a useful gift that a man
keeps on using after the novelty wears off.
He finds it practical. It makes his shaving
easy and luxurious —a grateful relief from
the trouble and discomfort of his former
shaving methods.
If he is not in the habit of shaving hinrelf, he will thank
you for introducing him to a new luxury—a means of
economizing his time and his money.
It takes only three minutes to get a shave with the Gillette—
the coolest, smoothest, pleasantest shave a man can have.
It is just the thing you want for the man you have in mind.
Get one to-day.
In many handsome styles with leather, silver or gold-plated cases,
from One Guinea to ten. British made. Sold everywhere.
NO STROPPING
M
NO HONING
SAFETY
RAZOR
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., LTD., Pitt Street, j Sydney.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR ltd., LONDON, ENGLAND.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 35.—N0. 1818.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 17, 1914.
Prtcr Bd.
GERMANY HOPES FOR A NEW ALLY.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. ver Annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to She
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and riot exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
6000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will bp regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction- — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W, G. P, Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Rates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet- — otherwise: Boz., Id., Skoz. to 10oz., 2\d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d. ; elsewhere, ioz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
Z^&xxlleZZTi.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 17, 1914.
THE PRIVATE ENTERPRISE GOV-
ERNMENT OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Some good might possibly be done just now
by the appointment of a Royal Commission
to find out whether New South Wales is a
rich and glorious Socialistic State, which
prospers under the beaming supervision of
j n ~ i, . , „ ,
Holman and Co., or a paitially-insolvent
cadger living on what it can borrow from
the Bloated Capitalist, and leaving the bil!
to Posterity. The Ma State stands for the
beginnings of Australia—or says it does.
, xr 7 -f , j
When it commenced it had neither roads,
railways nor steamships, but in that respect
it was on exactly the same footing as Eng-
land or the United States and the rest of the
world, so there was nothing to complain about.
’ ~ , . , . . , , ,
On the other hand, it had special advantages,
inasmuch as it began without any war debt,
while the British Isles (also minus railways
and roads and steamships) owed £900,000,000
at the end of the Napoleonic disturbance,
New South Wales has never had a real war,
either civil or foreign. Not even its wood-
shed has been knocked down by hostile can-
non since Phillip, the first boss gaoler,
came to Sydney Cove. It didn’t buy its
public lands at great cost from any trucu-
lent native race; the lands and the revenue
thereof fell upon it like the gentle dew
from Heaven. It never paid any amount
worth mentioning for Defence charges.
,i , ; . , i
Even the present big war doesnt take a penny
out of the local Treasury. The Australian
Government finds the money for the war
expenses, and pays the State its subsidy of
255. per inhabitant per annum in wet or dry
seasons and whether times are good or had
seasons, ana wnetnei times aie gooa or Daa.
New South H ales is the richest mineral
region in the Commonwealth. Incidentally
it is blessed with a Government which makes
a bigger boast about State-owned enternrise
and the nrnsneritv thereof than anv other in
antl prosperity tnereot tnan any otner in
the Commonwealth—possibly than any other
in the world. Also it is specially blessed
with a Ministry which declares that its
policy is to live practically without borrow-
ing, and also to pay off old debts.
„ r *, . * , * , *
Yet this wonderful political combination
seems unable to build even a drain without
raising the money from Private Enterprise
in England. The Australian Government
has borrowed £18,000,000 for war purposes
from the British Government, which is itself
so hard pressed that it has raised a loan of
£350,000,000, and which has to help to
finance gallant but dead-broke allies like
Belgium and Servia and Montenegro, that
have put every available man into the fight-
ing line. The New South Wales Govern-
ment in its turn has borrowed for drains and
culverts a good large hunk of the war-loan
which Australia got from Britain. Also,
Australia is borrowing £10,000,000 from the
Private Enterprise banks, and dividing the
money among the Slates —New South Wales
getting the biggest share. These are the
last loans that are likely to be available while
the European conflict lasts, and seeing that
one is the result of a famished appeal to the
harassed John Bull, and the other is a
species of hold-up perpetrated on Private
Enterprise institutions, they are two unplea-
sant-looking transactions, and very discredit-
able to a Socialistic Government. Next
year it is proposed, by way of further dis-
credit, that New South Wales public works
shall be entrusted to an English Private
Enterprise firm called Norton, Griffiths
and Co. These folk are to build railways
and other jobs, apparently at prices fixed by
themselves, and charge a commission on top
of the price. They are to be paid in Gov-
ernment securities, which—as they don’t
possess unlimited millions of their own
which they can lock up—they must dispose
of as best they may. Whether New South
Wales has got down so low that it requires
the name of this Private Enterprise firm on
the back of its bill, or whether it is going
to surreptitiously offer Private Enterprise
such lavish discounts that it dare not put
them forward in the ordinary way, no one
knows at time of writing. The Holman
Government has refused to state exactly
what the arrangement is. It is a pompous
concern like the Venetian Council of Ten,
and is not answerable to the people. All
that appears is that Norton, Griffiths and
Co. are to take on the construction business.
The works are either to be done more cheaply
than the State Government knows how to do
them, or they are to cost more than they
would cost if effected on Socialistic prin-
ciples, but the staggering fact is to be parti-
ally concealed. Exact details are as scarce
as hen’s teeth. The people, apparently, can’t
be trusted. At least they can’t be trusted
with a full knowledge of the present doings.
* * * *
New South Wales is up against certain
alternatives. If it is to be the rich and
prosperous Ma State of Australia it can’t
also be Lazarus begging harder than any-
body else for financial accommodation at
Cohen’s door. If it is to be a shining
example by the possession of a Government
which is pledged to financial honesty, to the
reduction of borrowing and to the repayment
of old debts, it can’t also be the worst bor-
rower, and the biggest deficit-owner south of
the. line —also, the most brazen spender of
public! money on behalf of Holman’s old col-
league Nielsen, who has been getting £4 a
day for so long that the beginning of his
allowance seems to date back almost to the
days of Abraham. And it can’t, with any
semblance of reality, preach State Socialism
when it is the one province of Australasia
which seriously proposes to hand over the
construction of its public works to the capi-
talist —and a foreign capitalist at that.
These things don’t hang together. They
don’t even hang separately, though they
ought to hang as high as Haman. State
Enterprise is a great idea when it is run
for the benefit of the State. When it is run
by a crowd of muddlers, with no eye to effici-
ency _ and a very remarkable eye to the
acquisition of votes, it may be a very poor
idea. And when a Socialistic Government
rushes to Monopoly and Boodle, begging that
they shall help it out of the ditch at almost
any price, the confession df failure becomes
glaring.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Monroe Doctrine.
A matter which may possibly be dead after
this war is the United States Monroe
Doctrine. The Mo. Doc., devised by Presi-
dent Monroe, who raged mildly in the
official chair from 1817 to 1825, lays it
down that no European Power may acquire
any more territory in North or Central or
South Atherica than it already possesses.
At times the idea has been strained to re-
present that no European Power may pur-
sue a just grievance, even against the wild-
est-cat commonwealth in the two continents.
The G. Washington Republic possesses no
sufficient army or navy to enforce its Doc-
trine, and if Britain had intimated that it
took no interest whatever in the business
the Germans would long ago have attempted
the annexation of Brazil, and, in case of
protest, would probably have knocked
saucepans out of New York and Phila-
delphia, and sunk Uncle Sam’s fleet. But
Britain is in a curious position which may
be summed up as follows
(1) It owns more territory in and around
America than all other European Powers combined.
(2) The border between the United States and
Canada is about 3000 miles long, and is mostly an
artificial and indefensible line on a great, flat
wilderness.
(3) The United States has about 12 times the
population of Canada, and its untrained militia could
wipe out the equally untrained militia of Canada
by sheer weight of numbers.
(4) The regiular army of the United States is
small, but that of Britain isn’t enormous either.
(5) The British fleet couldn’t do much harm by
destroying the U.S. mercantile marine, for the U.S.
have no mercantile marine worth mentioning.
(6) The United States can’t have their food
supply cut off by blockade because they grow their
own food and have a surplus for export. To stop
their commerce would merely tend to raise the price
of the British loaf and chop, and to ruin the British
shipping companies which trade with United States
ports.
(7) And to get “into holts’’ with the United
States would naturally cause Uncle Sam to stop
paying interest on the amounts he owes to Britain.
(8) Incidentally, a war would make Lancashire
shut up for lack of cotton. '
Also Jonathan of Washington has played
continuously on the fiddle-string of “Blood
is Thicker than Water.” Certainly he has
given Bull very little consideration in tariff
matters,, and a good lot of the repudiated
Confederate securities and Yankee State
securities were held in England, to the great
loss and discomfiture of Bull. Still, taking
all the tangled circumstances into account,
it has been always understood that Bull
would go beyond mere acquiescence in the
Monroe proposition, and would look un-
favorably on any attack made upon Jon a-
than by a European Power. And that
vague understanding enabled the United
States to uphold its Monroe skirmish, with
an army which would be a jest if it bumped
against the German hosts in Brazil, and a
navy which couldn’t argue for a day with
the fleets of Potsdam as they were before
the war. In fact, Britain has been the
Monroe Doctrine, and the United States
have been the Monroe bluff. Now the Re-
public has proved a mighty poor friend in
the present disagreement. It has even ex-
plained that a German invasion of Canada
wouldn’t necessarily be regarded at Wash-
ington as a hostile act, and it has refused
to strengthen its emaciated army of 90,000
men lest Germany should be annoyed there-
by. In these circumstances Bull may pos-
sibly decide, when the smoke of battle has
cleared away, that he will take a line of
strict neutrality. That is to say, he may
decide that, though he will himself respect
the Monroe Doctrine, any other Power
which feels inclined to disrespect it may do
so without interference on his part. He may
cease to be Samuel’s unpaid friend. Then
Uncle Samuel will be like a pyramid up-
side down, with.a great deal of assertion on
top and very little solid assurance below.
With his military and naval deficiencies he
can hardly warn all Europe against inter-
ference in South American and Central
American affairs on his own responsibility.
Europe may treat him as a subject of mirth,
or a cocktail, or a wooden ham, or some-
thing of the sort.
Pacification, the Policy of Fools.
President Wilson, of the U.S.A., said last
week, apropos a suggestion to strengthen his
country’s absurd army and inadequate navy:
We will not turn America into a military camp,
and ask our youths to spend the best years of their
lives in becoming soldiers. There is another sort of
energy in the United States which will make itself
effective when the occasion arises.
The Peace crank always talks like this. Yet
his policy is suicidal even from the commer-
cial point of view. If Australia had listened
to its Wilsons, the Commonwealth would
have been faced four months ago with the
necessity of guarding its wealthy coastal
cities, keeping its trade routes open, and
transporting its expeditionaries with the help
of a squadron of cast-offs from the British
navy. The alternative would have been to
seek help from the North Sea, to the detri-
ment of the safety of the United Kingdom.
The existence of France was imperilled by
pacifists of the Wilson stamp up to a few
weeks before the war began. They opposed
the increased training-term necessitated by
Germany’s tremendous preparations, just as
they had previously fought all other compul-
sory-service schemes. Britain had a numeri-
cally powerful gang of the same national
misfortunes, and they howled dismally, till
the other day. In all these cases, as in the
U.S. last week, the expressed theory was
that soldiering sapped the moral qualities of
the race. In practice nothing of the sort
happens. Many of Berniiardi’s conclusions
now appear futile, but this one rings true:
The United States of America championed the
ideas of universal peace in order to be able to devote
their undisturbed attention to money-making
but they thus incur a great danger... .precisely be-
cause they try to exclude all chance of contest with
opponents of their own strength, and thus avoid the
stress of great emotions, without which the moral
development of the national character is impossible.
Nothing did so much for Australia’s national
morale as universal service—unless it was
the new navy. The improvement was clear
to the dullest and most disgruntled. The
decayed-fish purveyor was driven out of the
business for lack of - sympathetic auditors.
The youthful larrikin class practically van-
ished before the march of the area officer.
It was found that wherever youngsters were
drilled in considerable numbers the locality
tended to grow more law-abiding. The pre-
sent sentiment all over Australia, after a
brief experience of what the pacifists used
to call “conscription” is that it is a pity
Parliament didn’t make the allegedly in-
fernal thing more general and drastic. The
Early Fathers had a maxim, which still
holds good among theologians, that it is im-
possible to stand still in virtue. One either
increases in holiness or drifts towards Ge-
henna. These old-timers were good psycho-
logists. Their theory applies all round —to
nations as much as to individuals. The
country which puts cash (or trade) before
honor (or defence) has a bad time ahead of
it. And the more it continues to chase
wealth, at the expense of higher considera-
tions, the worse its ultimate awakening.
Germany is making a bid for the over-lord-
ship of the earth. It must fail; apparently
it has already failed, for the odds are too
big. But Germany was not prevented from
making vast industrial strides by reason of
its . war preparations ; and the very spirit
which has enabled it to put up a willing
fight against the world, is going to be its
salvation when peace terms are discussed.
It is not safe to try to utterly crush a people
of that sort. The sort who get crushed are
those who have gone back so far in national
virtue, as not to mind it; or, at any rate, to
mind it less than the burden of self-defence.
For example, the Koreans.
A Matter of Fourteen Inferences.
An idea begins to prevail that the present
N.S.W. Government can’t do anything right.
Its muddle appears to have become superla-
tive. As a case in point, it has-been ukased
that when any State institution wants stores
of a kind that are supplied by one of Hol-
man and Griffith’s public enterprises, it is
to buy the goods from Holman and Grif-
fith’s public enterprise, even if the tender is
10 per cent, above, that of some private fur-
nisher. And it is added that “in special
cases an even larger margin of difference
should not be considered a conclusive ground
for rejecting the offer of the Government
institutions.” If the Ministry made this
injurious differentiation—as Bruce Smith
would call it—ragainst the foreigner who
builds his goods with long-hour and short-
wage labor, it would be good Australian
patriotism. If it made the differentiation—
it is difficult to get away from that beautiful
B. Smith expression—against other States
of the Commonwealth, it would at least be a
parochial variety of patriotism. But when
it differentiates —the magnificent Smith term
creeps in again—against N.S.W.’s producers,
it seems to be taking an unfair advantage
and playing the game with loaded dice. The
N.S.W. employer has to pay the wages and
observe the conditions enforced by the legis-
lation of the existing Labor Government.
Presumably these are fair wages and honest
conditions. The Government is supposed to
run its enterprises on similar terms, except
for two special advantages. One is that it
has “eliminated the middleman.” The other
is that, when it wants loan money to carry
on with, it gets it from the Treasury about
2 per cent, cheaper than the rate which the
private employer has to pay the banks. If,
in addition, it is necessary to drag in the
public as a compulsory customer, at higher
prices than need be paid, some very unplea-
sant inferences arise. One is that the State
enterprises are not so much plain business
affairs as friendly devices whereby the people
in office buy popularity with public money.
Another —which is really the same inference
over again—is that the alleged profits can’t
be so glorious as they seem, for it is hardly
probable that a device of this sort would be
adopted unless it was necessary to put a
good face on a bad situation. There are
12 other inferences, but they are all really
the same inference over again. It isn’t »
pleasant inference.
When Gabriel Blew His Trumpet.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Time’s up!” said the Lord, somewhat
wearily,
“Blow your trumpet, Gabriel !
Blow it over land and sea —
Blow it loud and long and free, that the
Earth may know it’s Me!”....
And Gabriel blew it, cheerily ;
Through Space it sounded eerily—
Ta-ra-ra-ta-ra ! Ta-ra-ta-rantaray !
Awake! Arise!
For this is Judgment Day !
(Echoes) ... .ta-ray ! Judgment Day!
Gabriel blew on, lustily;
The trumpet-calls ran gustily;
Bound and round flew the sound to the
Heavens’ furthest bound;
The dead heard, but said no word, and rose
in haste, and dustily.
Earth’s sons and daughters,
Drowned in the waters of river, sea and lake,
Came to the top with a sudden plop!
And gave themselves a shake,
But yet no word they spake.
They blinked their eyes with wild surprise
As startled from deep dreams,
And where they stood the oozy flood dripped
down from them in streams,
While they listened to the bray—
Ta-ra-ta-rantaray !...'.
The welkin rang to the brazen clang as they
stood in still array.
What Gabriel blew the deep sea knew, and
it slowly shrank away —
Its dead it might not stay,
Eor this was Judgment Day!
The Living heard that Note peal from the
Trumpet’s mighty ihroat;
They were at work and play—
They were at feast and fight and song,
Bargaining, arguing Bight and Wrong—
Kicking the weak, kow-towing to the
strong—
Bolling the old world’s load along,
When the trumpet of Gabriel sounded!....
Everyone was astounded!
Not a few were confounded,
As the warning Call to great and small from
coast to coast rebounded!
What? Had it come so soon?
Just at the height of the season!
Bight in the Age of Beason!
They were still living, getting and giving,
cheating and planning treason—
Loving, laughing and sorrowing—
Stealing, lending and borrowing—
Granting, or begging, a boon.
There were the sun and the moon,
And the ancient Earth looked splendid!
Did they sleep or wake? AVhy should they
quake?
Surely it wasn’t ended.
Yet, what did the great Voice say?....
“Awake! Arise!
Ta-ra ta-ranta-ray !
This is the Judgment Day !”
No use to grieve.... they must leave, they
must leave!
And they joined the Last Array.
“Let Judgment begin!” said the good Lord,
leniently;
“There need be no haste; take each one con-
veniently ;
Treat all alike in their poor little fraternity,
Time does not count, for this is now Eter-
nity !”
Then said Gabriel: “Lord, Thy will is our
pleasure;
With Justice or Mercy, which shall we
measure?”
But, ere the Good Lord answered, there came-
a shuffling—
A peevish Voice complaining
Like a child when it’s railing—
A microscopic scuffling
From one corner of the host where the Living
numbered most —
Altogether a most unseemly interruption a.nd
a distinct evasion
Of the rules laid down for a particularly
Solemn Occasion!
The Heavenly Host was quite amazed !
The great Archangels seemed half-dazed,
Till Itiiuriel, escorted
By a dozen spear-angels, descended
To the disturbed area whence, presently, he
wended
His way back to the Throne, and there re-
ported
The cause of that mild Saturnalia —
“Lord, among the living from Australia,
One who dubs himself Premier is lamenting
The premature arrival of Thy Judgment —
He declares it to be all fudgment!
If it be real he desires his name to be deleted,
As he says he has vitally urgent business to
attend to;
And some place called London messages to
send to ;
As, when Gabriel blew his Trumpet, arrange-
ments for a fresh loan had very nearly
been completed!”
At this the Heavens rang, and the Lord
laughed till He was almost unseated!
“That,” continued Ithuriel, “is this per-
son’s petition ;
With great awe and deference I would sug-
gest that he be sent to Perdition!”
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


The importance of Haring Something to
Pawn.
„T^on b 9 k i%St m If the worntjome.
Poun^ n . ,/ s ”i M “ os “
thought by Cbammond that Lncle SAM, as a
person with a good working g make an
ways, may easily be p er suade d to make a
advance The example which may P° S * IDI J
be set by Bill Hoiienzolllbn should burn
lesson into the mmd of Bill liolma ,
who is less of a swashbuckler, but
the borrowing habit some tune . , to
brother monarch in Germany was to U
it Bill Holman is also the head of a firm
or Government which supposedly owns va
able railways. The raiiways of HoL
MAN’S State had cost in capital expenditure,
ud to June 30, 1914, a total of £61,264,809.
After paying working expenses they yielded
a revenue of £2,332,421, which was equal to
£3 17s 4d. per cent. That was in the yeai
ending Juntf 30, 1914, which had been a fa.
average term. The average rate of interest
Scfng slighfly under £3 17s. 4d.. per cent
there was a surplus, after paying i nt, “ r ? st ’
£209 368. This left a small and unhappy
profit of 6s. 10d. per cent., and that surplus
liberally capitalised, is not worth moie than
£5,500.000. The actual position, then, ot
the railways in N. S. Wales i* that (on he
most favorable base of calculation for the
last statistical year) they had cost 61 million
pounds. They were worth that 61 millions
to Bull, Cohen and Co., to whom they were
mortgaged before they were built; but
to the people of .N. S. M ales they
were worth only millions. It is rather a
terrible thing to find that during 60 years you
have borrowed 61 millions to set a business
venture going, and at the end 6i the 60 years
you cannot hope to clean up for as much as
six millions. If Holman and his prede-
cessors in the Government of IN. S. Wales had
possessed the elements of sense and courage,
and had maintained the sinking funds which
all of them promised and nearly all of them
stole, this community might, without feeling
any pinch, have bought back its railways
from the mortgagee, and it would then own
an asset worth over 60 millions instead of
five milliohs only. Merely as something to
pawn this would be a magnificent possession.
A State with such a pledge in reserve could
borrow at the cheapest rates in the world.
Within the next year or two the insane finan-
ciers who govern this community may grow
desperate in the search of something to carry
to the pawnshop. Lately John Bull was
touched for a loan of which N. S. M ales, is
to get £7,500,000; but Bull dropped the hint
that it must be spent on war purposes, not
for ordinary development. What Holman
is to do for loans next year he himself con-
fesses that he doesn’t know.. If a railway
system without debt were existing m N. 8.
Wales, what a splendid reserve asset it would
be! On the other hand, consider the size of
the disaster you might look for if financiers
like those of the present Ministry had the
first pawning of it!
»
More Wheat.
By this time no man or woman or dog in
N.S.W. knows where the Government wheat
purchase business stands. It has become a
blither and a mystery. To begin with, the
Ministry, probably through much reading of
United States literature re corners in wheat,
apparently got the imported idea that the
said vegetable is the one essential of life.
That is the case in some countries, but in
Australia meat is the essential. Then the
■Government discovered that the alleged
scarcity doesn’t exist —in fact there is a
superabundance of wheat in the. Ma State
this year. It hadn’t the faintest idea where
to get £4,000,000 or so with which .to
pay for the whole crop. The decision
arrived at was that the State might
buy wheat compulsorily at ss. per
bushel, but that wheat couldn’t be
shoved on to it. That is to say, one farmer
might be taken at ss. per bushel, and an-
other might be left to sell in Melbourne or
elsewhere at 6s. 6d. This attempt at a
compromise caused so much excitement that
it was resolved that the farmer whose wheat
was taken by the State at ss. might appeal
to a Board, which could fix a higher price
according to the current market rate. .So
it became a matter of the State, buying
wheat at the current market rate with delay
and litigation, instead of going into the open
market and buying at the regular price
without litigation. Thus the compulsory
purchase of the whole crop was abandoned,
and likewise the compulsory purchase of the
whole or any part of the crop at the fixed
rate of ss. per bushel. In fact the Ministry
began to appear like a purposeless jobber or
middleman, acquiring grain from Smith
with much worry, and selling it to Brown
at no assured profit, instead of letting
Brown buy direct from Smith. Apart
from' the fact that billets may be made
for a few people whose business it
will be to interpose between Brown and
Smith, and employment provided for a
Board and a few lawyers, who will
solemnly deal with the case of Thom-
son whose wheat was bought by the State,
and decide that he should get the same price
as Jones whose wheat wasn’t bought, there
appears to be very little left in the business.
It suggests the case of the mayor and cor-
poration who made an artificial lake in the
park. Then they made a subway under the
lake to carry the traffic. Finding that the
subway leaked the thing was filled up and a
causeway constructed across the lake to
carry the traffic. And when the causeway
became too narrow owing to increase, if
traffic the lake was filled up. Still one visible
result of the wheat-buying scheme remains.
Existing contracts for the sale of grain were
abolished, but existing contracts for the sale
of flour were not. So Jenkinson, the
miller, who had contracted to buy wheat
from Briggs at a fixed price, and to sell the
resulting or consequent flour to Stiggins’ at
a fixed price, learned that he couldn’t make
Briggs supply him with the wheat, but that
he had still to furnish the flour to Stlggins.
And a very bitter Jenkinson asked what
sort of a game this was.
A Sudden Outburst of Freetrade.
The wheat craze appears to have got Aus-
tralia down and sat on its head. The crops
are poor this vear, and it is thought that
some grain will have to be imported. In con-
sequence the Australian Parliament proposes
to suspend the duties and put the stuff you
make dry bread out of on the free list. The
farmer is to have a joyous time. In some
districts a man with £2OOO worth of land,
most of it probably under mortgage, will
make about £5O. It won’t meet his interest
liabilities. As for getting £1 a week out of it
for himself and his family, that is absurd
and impossible. He has still got to send his
scrap of produce for export the same old
ridiculous distances because the trade must
go to Sydney or Melbourne. He still finds it
held up at country railway stations by the
congestion policy or by official incompetence.
In N.S’.W., at all events, his wheat is liable
to be seized by the Government, which may
pay promptly or otherwise. In the same
State, railway charges have recently been
raised. The State taxes have been in-
creased. There is to be a new Federal land-
tax. And now, though local wages remain
at the old figure, the bucolic person is to
compete without Protection against the cheap-
labor wheat of India and such-like places,
the same being brought here by cheap-labor
ships. The suspension of the wheat duties
will make an addition to the Federal deficit,
which promised, by reason of the war
charges, to be anything between £10,000,000
and £12.000,000, without this remission -of
taxes. The Governments which have gone
fanti on Freetrade in Wheat and State mono-
poly in wheat —with a misguided idea that
this country lives on dry bread —seem quite
unable to realise that the shortage in the
local production of hats, boots, clothes, mil-
linery, steel rails, railway rolling stock,
ships, loans and many other things is much
greater than that in wheat, and it is a per-
manent drought, while the loaf scarcity is a
matter of a single season. The necessity for
doing big, wild things about these chronic
scarcities doesn’t appeal to them. Yet pants
and coats are more important than wheat,
for anybody can live on beef, mutton, fish,
potatoes and turnips, while nobody can go
about naked. This wheat fuss and lunacy
requires to be suppressed.
♦
Breach of Promise.
From the Bar table: —
The breach-of-promise action is one that should be
abolished. In form it is an action to recover the
money damage sustained by the loss of a prospective
husband. In fact, it is commonly an action for
damages for seduction. But as straight-out actions
for seduction are not permitted, they have been intro-
duced in this fraudulent form with many deplorable
results.
The time-honored method of treating a plaintiff’s
case in these actions is in itself a damning admission
of their dishonesty. Each juryman is sworn that
he will “a true verdict give according to the evi-
dence.” He is told by plaintiff’s counsel that he is
to base the amount of any damages he may award on
the extent of the loss which he estimates the plaintiff
to have suffered through being debarred from living
with the defendant. Counsel announces that he will
call evidence which will show that the defendant is
such a person as Buzfuz said that Mr. Pickwick was
—a worthless, unscrupulous, despicable hound. He
then proceeds to call the evidence and it is usually
believed. And after this has happened the jury
(which, if it regarded the terms of its oath, would
tender a unanimous vote of congratulation to the
plaintiff on having escaped so awful a peril and been
relieved of so burdensome a contract) confers for
a moment and awards damages! The fact that
everybody in court is aware of what the action is
realiy for does not detract from the hypocrisy and
immorality of the proceeding. The suggestion of
seduction is not tested by cross-examination, because,
as a rule, it is sedulously kept in the background;
and yet, while the implication is ever present, the
defendant, who may be perfectly innocent, is deprived
of any opportunity to meet the charge and have it
sifted in the only manner in which it properly can be
sifted. The jury returns its verdict on facts which
have never been before it, in contravention of its
oath, on issues not of evidence but of sentiment, and
in form such as in other actions would result in the
verdict being set aside as “unreasonable” and “against
the weight of evidence.”
In those instances where the proceeding is launched
by, the actress class the action becomes a scandal.
Not only is the costly time of the superior courts
taken up by self-advertising young women who want
advertisement and can’t get it on their merits, but
the whole thing incites to and reeks of blackmail.
The cases which are settled —often at the very doors
of the court —are the proof of it. When young
Birdie Sutherland gets £lO,OOO from foolish young
Dudle± Marjoribanks, or —as happened recently in
London —a better-known young actress gets £60,000
from a fatuous young marquis, does anybody really
suppose that these sums represent attempts by the
parties to estimate what a jury might have given?
Nobody doubts that they represent the sum of which
the defendant is willing to be bled in order to keep
out of court. The court, which is justly reverenced
in the tribunals of our race, becomes reducible to a
blackmailer’s weapon so long as such a form of
action as this endures.
The remedy is simple and effective. If a girl has
really been wronged by a man, she should be
entitled to claim damages for her injury. On the
other hand, no man should be convicted of such a
charge until the specific pieces of evidence against
him have been explicitly sworn to and properly
tested. At the present moment a woman is not
allowed to claim in respect of a tort of this descrip-
tion. It is true that a claim of sorts can be made
by her employer -or by her father. But the theory
of this, in addition to' being hypocritical, is grossly
insulting to woman in general, the law holding that
she is a slave or chattel, and that the employer (not
the girl) is entitled to compensation for damage tQ
his chattel. A woman should be as much entitled to
sue in respect of this particular wrong as she is in
respect of other torts. It may be said that such a
right would lead to blackmail. Be it so; but at
least the victim would be given, the opportunity of
meeting the charges outright, and would hive the
right to insist on their specific formulation. The
present system is an anomaly-,' for the plaintiff asks
the .Court to give her damages for the loss of some-
thing which she is, on the face of it, better without.
«
“Watching Carefully.”
A State Minister said the other day:—
I have been watching very carefully the criticisms
in Parliament and the press with respect to the
desirability of taking effective measures to deal with
sexual diseases.
There is no need to particularise the State,
since the Ministries of the whole seven are
tarred with the same brush. They all keep
a careful eye ou criticisms in Parliament
and the press, and when the same become
uncomfortably clamant they offer the com-
plainants a commission of inquiry, or some-
thing similar, and then proceed to do
nothing worth mentioning, as in the past.
The reasons are various. In the first place,
Ministers have to rely, to a great extent, on
the advice of experts. The experts in this
matter are doctors. Ninety-five Australian
doctors out of a hundred are Tory indi-
vidualists —men who hate the idea of State
interference with anything. They can no
more get away from the fixed idea that com-
pulsory notification of sexual diseases is (1)
impracticable and (2) an outrage on the
liberty of the subject, than they were able
to calmly accept Socialism, Labor Govern-
ments and national defence. Another con-
sideration with Ministers —an outcome of
the party-government system—is the vote
that may be alienated by the first Adminis-
tration which drops the policy of “watching
carefully,” and butts in to do something.
There is the Wowser vote, which ascribes all
sexual disease to Sin, and considers that
nothing should be done to relieve sufferers
from the consequences of their misdeeds.
And there is what one may call the venereal
vote. Persons afflicted with a disease like
syphilis no more wish to be forcibly pre-
vented by the State from communicating it
to others than plague patients wish to be
locked up in remote hospitals. The syphi-
litics are just as dangerous as the others.
Their safety lies in their numbers. Under
the insane party arrangement, no Govern-
ment dares to alienate a big block vote. The
N. S. Wales Government, for example,
“watched carefully” for quite a while before
it summoned up the courage to deal with
the few hundreds who were affected by Syd-
ney’s recent small-pox outbreak. The syphi-
litic sufferers number not hundreds but
thousands. All the watching in the world
will not disclose any other means of dealing
effectively with them than that which has
been repeatedly declared for by the highest
authorities on such questions. C.D. Acts,
Prisoners’ Detention Acts and so on are
good enough in their way. But they are
the merest palliatives, and touch only the
fringe. The State will not be clean till
it says to its syphilitics“ You must submit
to be rendered non-infectious in the interests
r of others, even if you refuse to be cured on
your own account.” The different State
Ministries know perfectly well how this may
be accomplished. 'They are “watching care-
fully,” not because they want more infor-
mation, but from a desire to see how the
electoral cat is likely to jump on this ques-
tion. Meanwhile thousands of lives are
being destroyed, and innocent women and
children are suffering as bitterly as the
guiltiest.
♦
A plea put forward in a rather shambling
way by the Federal Customs Minister for the
suspension of the wheat duties is that as a
matter of fact speculators and not the farmers
hold the bulk of the stock.” It was the sort
of plea that might be put forward as regards
dozens of industries. To quote only one
instance —in the matter of such a humble
substance as pants, hardly any of the stock
is ever held by the actual producer. It is
the same with books and cheese and gar-
den truck” and fish. “Speculators, said
the Minister, “have a lien over the new
crops.” That is probably true, but poor
old Cowspanker, the agriculturist, isn t
wholly to blame, nor is the speculator. Une
of Cowspanker’S troubles is that his wheat
simetimes lingers for six months or more at
a remote railway station before the inis-
managed and congested railways can shift
it to the wharves of the one big citv where
all the exports go, or to the mill, lhere
are thieves and rats and weather to be con-
sidered. Also there is the need for ready
money. Cowspanker isn’t handy with the
pen to write remonstrances to the Kailway
Department, and he can’t live on the official
doormat crying out for trucks as the city
gambler can. He really considers it cheaper
in the end to sell at a reduced rate to a
middleman who will pav cash and take on the
risk and the struggle. Thus the speculator
has grown and prospered. The marketing of
wheat and the running of a humble lawsuit
have both been made so intricate that Low-
spanker hires a speculator in one case and
a legal gent, in the other. He is more or
less robbed by both of them.
If the stories now circulating are true, the
comic-opera Turkish Government, should be
put in a lunatic asylum. This is how the
yarn goes according to latest advices.
(1) Two German warships took refuge in Turkish
waters when the trouble started.
(2) The Turkish Government professed to buy
them at an outrageous price, hut as it had no
money, and as the German crews and officers
remained on board the warships, the Allies said '
that the purchase was too thin.
(3) The German officers in question, under
instructions from Berlin, took out the two warships
with the Turkish flag flying, and started to hash
Russian ports to pieces.
(4) The Russians became angry and fired on the
Turkish flag for all they were worth. The alleged
Turkish ironclads fled hack to the Bosphorus.
(5) The distracted _ Turks said they weren’t
responsible. Being told that they had better disarm
the two German warships which they professed to
have bought they said they dared not try anything
so strenuous lest their own alleged vessels should
bombard Constantinople.
(6) A Turkish emissary—the famous Enver
Pasha —went to Berlin to fix things up and inci-
dentally to borrow a little money. Being heavily
bribed he hurried back and sooled the Turkish troops
on to Egypt and Russia. The weary old Sultan, and
the Heir Apparent, and the rather ancient Grand
Vizier tried to stop the proceedings, but were
brushed aside like three flies off a window-pane.
(7) The two invasions were a failure. Apparently
nobody was in charge.
(8) A Turkish Governor implored the German
Government to lend him an army with which to
keep order in Palestine and Syria, because the
Mohammedans threatened to slaughter all the
Christian inhabitants, Germans included, to make a
Prophet’s holiday. When the Mohammedan becomes
wild he is a very irresponsible teetotaller and a
maddened abstainer-from pork.
(9) A holy war was declared, and nobody took
any notice.
(10) The hopeless old Grand Vizier protested with
tears that affairs might still be patched up if the
Allies would only take a friendly view .of the
situation. He protested to ambassadors and
commercial travellers and newspaper correspondents
and bootblacks and anybody who would listen to him.
That is as far as the comic-opera narrative
has gone. It would be a great yarn if only
Gilbert and Sullivan could set it to music
in their best style. “The Mikado” wasn t
a patch on it.
Even when a very big man has landed a kick
on a very small dog it may be unsafe to chase
the animal too far. The one streak of luck
which came in Austria’s way since the war
began was the capture of Belgrade, the Ser-
vian capital, after four months’ bombardment.
Upon this event the Austrian got swelled
head, and tried to chase the Servian right out
of his country. There were troubles at
Valjevo and Ivragnjevacs and Poseravatz and
other places too terrible to mention. But
the Serb, having no place to go to, turned on
his huge enemy at Ivragnjevacs and Valjevo.
He had become a sort of homeless dog, and
he was reckless of consequences. He was
ready to bite a cathedral or to chew the ear
of Providence. So the luck turned once
more, and the very large Austrian who had
kicked the very small Servian dog took the
track for home again. The. Austro-
Servian row is, in a way, the most interesting
feature of the great scrap.. The obscure
creature in the brown uniform has been
trodden in the mud about six times, but he
has always emerged and resumed hostilities.
“Bobstay” : Sydney Marine Court has just
exposed a weakness in the State maritime
law. The Cora Lynn, a small coasting
steamer, was caught in a blow and ran for
shelter to Port Stephens. Missing his bear-
ings, the skipper got too close in and the
steamer struck a reef and was totally lost.
The finding of the Court was that the aged
master suffered from defective eyesight and
couldn’t see the lights marking the entrance.
It added that “no Court would dream of
dealing with the certificate of a man so
afflicted.” This intimation is as amazing
as the actual law. In 1850 a Pilotage
Committee was formed to deal with pilot
certificates. It graded men by the depth of
water their vessels drew —that was the only
test. The committee expired in 1870, but
many of the men who had previously
obtained certificates are trading on the coast
to-day under the old permits. The eyesight
of a man who passed in the ’so’s or ’GO’s is
not necessarily first-class at this time of the
new century, but the law is quite content
to take the ancient committee’s word for it.
The Commonwealth’s Navigation Act and
some also of the State’s marine acts provide
for periodic examination of pilots asking for
certificates. But this does not affect, the
hundreds of men who have obtained N.S.W.
tickets during the past 50 years. Nothing
will affect them but decay or death. Of
course, a lot of people aboard the old men’s
ships will probably lose their lives at the
same time as the old men lose their ships;
but that is a detail.
♦
The Lestrange business, which led to the
recent Hall-Worker (N.S.W.) libel
action, is going to be a fruitful source
of trouble before it is buried. It
was Justice Pring who refused per-
mission to prosecute Lestrange for per-
jury, and it was he who subsequently tried
the case between Plall and the irate
Worker. Now, in his summing-up he ex-
pressed the opinion that the case should have
gone to a jury ; and the question is whether
his Honor knew more about the Lestrange
case after the hearing of the Hall-Worker
case than he did when permission to nrose-
cute was sought from him. If so, why so?
It suggests that there is something faulty
about the system, and that Judges are called
upon to decide whether men shall be prose-
cuted for perjury without being fully seized of
the facts. But why should the consent of a
Judge be necessary at all? Why should per-
jury be selected for special treatment? And
why should the suspected perjurer get a
chance of escape which is denied every other
suspected party ?
Presumably the British Censor is con-
vinced that he held the reins too tight. _ Any-
way, British papers are now permitted to
be much more outspoken; and remarks are
printed which show that Belgium isn't all
gratitude towards Britain, amd France isn’t
all admiration for its ally’s services. Neither
suggest that Britain isn’t doing all it can ;
but plainly there is a vague idea that it
ought to have been able to do a great deal
more. But because Britain neglected uni-
versal training it was able to immediately
throw only a mere handful of men across
the Channel. “Your guarantee to preserve
our neutrality—what was it worth?” asks
one Beigian. And here and there a French
voice says that that land has been desolated
because Britain was able to put only a hun-
dred thousand into the field for every French
million. The British voluntary system
assures the allies that it will be all right in
the long run. Meantime, we must have a lot
of sympathy for them when, in reply, they
bid us look at their countries’ wounds.
Mervyn J. Holmes, Chief Health Officer of
the Northern Territory, has issued another
exposure of the beastly climate that is only
fit for niggers, as any cheap-labor advocate
knows: —
A further year’s experience serves to strengthen
the opinion that, speaking broadly, the Northern
Territory is a healthy country with a climate well
suited to the requirements of the white race. White
men of average constitution maintain as good health
under working conditions here as they do in more
southerly latitudes.
Owing to the enormous size of the country the
climate is not similar throughout. In some regions
the conditions are more agreeable than in others, but
no part of the country is unfitted for occupation by
the white races by reason of unfavorable climatic
conditions. The opinion has been given by good
authority that the working conditions for miners in
the northern part of the Territory, which is the least
agreeable from a climatic point of view, are in
general better than are expected at such places as
Broken Hill and Mt. Lyell.
The death statistics for the year 1913 bear evi-
dence to the healthiness of the climate. The death-
rate from disease amongst the white population of
the Territory for 1913 was 7.1 per 1000, which is
much lower than the Commonwealth average: More
deaths occurred in persons over 60 years of age than
in those under that age.
There is no evidence of deterioration in general
health and constitution in the rising generation of the
Territory. The health of the children throughout the
year has been good. Between the ages of one year
and 21 years only one death occurred in the white
population, and that was the case of a child who
arrived in Darwin from the South with whooping-
cough and died.


Hotel Steyne,
Manly Beach, N.S.W.
Facing the Pacific Ocean.
THE BRIGHTON OF AUSTRALIA*
SURF-BATHING RIGHT IN
FRONT OF THE HOTEL.
Excellent Golf Links in Close Proximity.
Hot Salt Water Baths Adjacent.
TERMS-From 11/6 Day;
£3 I Os. Week.
i
. / imf+trnnl'l
inaii:ii;iM.«
a
Wool from Australasia, plus British Labour
, Stockings & Socks
for Men, Women and Children.
That is the combination that constitutes the world’s best value in
Stockings and Socks. The materials are expertly woven by skilled British workers
and beautifully finished with the soft silky “feel” exclusively ‘Jasons’ own and
Jagen? IS branded with an honest British mark that signifies the maker’s
1 confidence in the goods.
Tim brand protects you from the cheap unnamed German-made hosiery that lacks finish, and
stability obviously a pr»'ence and a false economy. Support the industry of the Home Country
buy the branded £*£22*9 that P rotect your interest and your pocket. V
Your Draper or Outfitter will, if you insist upon having only "jfaiOTC supply you.
A.asl
Sole Manufacturers — The Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
The War—on the Eve of Christmas.
The week has been good for the Allies,
whose tail, seven days ago, was not quite
so high as it might have been. The Gei'liog
on the Franco-Belgian frontier has lost
ground a little more rapidly than usual.
In a campaign where 170,000 men fight for
the ownership of one backyard progress
isn’t fast, but slaughter is. Still, there is
progress. The return of the French Gov-
ernment to Paris indicates that all danger
of siege is considered to be finished. Hardly
anything is heard now about the great Ger-
hog scheme for the capture of Calais and
the immediate invasion of England. An
attempt to raid Dover by half a dozen
Gerhog submarines was either a dead failure
or a delusion caused by the reflection of the
moon on the waters. The second tremen-
dous effort of the Kaiser’s reinforced army
to reach Warsaw looked for a day or two
as if it might succeed, but the Bear in
Sheep’s Clothing rose to the occasion in his
old style, and Warsaw has again become a
mere vision in the distance. Still, the Bear
has lost the big city of Lodz, though he hopes
to get it back in time for a Christmas pre-
sent. The slaying around there was
reckoned the worst in the war, and
there will be good crops in Poland
when the dead are fully decomposed.
Servia has risen again from its ashes. Peter
the king, aged 70, promenaded recklessly in
the front of the army and urged his soldiers
to do impossible things, and the soldiers rose
to the occasion. They finished by recovei'ing
their lost metropolis of Belgrade, so the
temporary Austrian victory is Dead Sea
fruit and apples of Sodom until further
notice. Peter was, for many years an
impoverished prince in exile, dwelling
among the hash-houses of Europe while
the Children of the Pig-Dealer reigned
in Servia, and he probably thought it
better to die a king than to go on
his travels again, and be a dweller in Mrs.
Todgers’ establishment. The Turkish holy
war is still a holy frost'. The Australian
troops were detained in Egypt in case of in-
vasion, but things are so slow that they think
of sending home for a black tracker and a
kangaroo dog to hunt up the enemy. The
Kaisei’ is reported to be about to undergo an
operation on his throat, which recalls
the case of his father— “ Frederick the
Noble,” as Dr. Morell Mackenzie called
him —who died under a similar operation
after a reign of about three months. During
the week the Gerhog ships which made such
a wreck of a weak British squadron beside
the Chilian coast, met a much sti’onger one
off the Falklands. They are now in Pleaven,
or somewhere; and save for a smattering of
armed merchantmen the Kaiser has nothing
left on the high seas, not even any traces of
intelligence. Certain Gerhogs who amused
themselves bv flogging a Bi’itish missionary
have themselves been flogged at Rabaul,
so that incident is closed. It is reported that
the Kaiser is willing to buy Italy’s perma-
nent neutrality, by giving it the Austrian
province of Trentino, which disposal of other
people’s goods is rough on Austria but very
like the Kaiser. Some Turkish soldiers, suf-
fering from swelled cranium, have broken
into an Italian consulate, and Italy’s furious
demands for compensation are another woe
on the weary head of the man with the fez.
An appeal has been made to China to leave
its cabbage and join Britain’s enemies ; but,
so far, China has pursued the caterpillar in
an unresponsive mood. Also General Botiia
has made a spectacular end of the i*ebellion in
South Africa. De Wet has been captured,
and his colleague Beyers came to a damp
and miserable end in a swollen river. Con-
sidering the present high price of beer, he
chose the cheapest substance to drown in.
An illuminating tale of the virtues of
Freetrade and the importing system comes
from Ardmona (Vic.). In 1913 the fruit-
growers of the distinct applied to the
Department to be connected with Mooroopna
by. telephone. Some months later they
delightedly welcomed the workmen who set
about erecting the poles to carry the wires.
Then the Department took a spell-oh for
six weeks while it awaited some foreign
stuff that hadn’t come to hand. Suddenly,
however, the mechanics descended on the
township and placed the imported instru-
ments in the houses of subscribers, where
they were duly admired. Evidently the
wires were ordered in Germany or Austria,
for they haven’t appeared yet, although the
subsci-ibers paid up 15 months ago.
louseph Ward’s latest pledge:—
I publicly pledge our partv that we will put pro-
portional representation on the Statute Book.
That’s pending the complete returns of last
week’s Maoriland elections. But if he is
returned to power (and it doesn’t appear
wildly improbable, unless the eternal 30
pieces of silver get into circulation) Ward
will be so busy pledging what is left of the
country’s resources that a small item like
proportional-representation will be thrown
out with the dead marines and the old
bones. There, when things are desperate and
the bottle-oh is called in, it will be found,
and may then have a chance.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Girl on the Film”
Criterion “Broadway Jones”
Palace “Sweet County Kerry”
Adelphi “The Babes in the Wood”
Jivoli Mcl ntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
White Citv Various Shows
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Cinderella”
Royal “The Chorus Lady”
King s “Sinbad the Sailor”
Princess s “What Women Will Do for Love”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Bijou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville
Olympia & National Hovt's Pictures
Esplanade The Green Dandies
»
Broadway Jones—his full name is Get-
Rich-Quick Fortune-Hunter Ready-Money
Broadway Jones —is merely another‘member
of that large family of New York heroes
with which the stage of the Criterion
Theatre (Sydney) has recently been deluged.
George M. _ Cohan, having successfully
adapted, stories by other U.S. authors, in
this, his own effort, has simply selected
scenes and characters from all the recent
U.S. comedies and dumped them on to the
stage. There js the usual opening scene
of alleged hilarity. There is the announce-
ment that the hero, supposed to be a
millionaire, is broke. There is the sudden
acquisition of wealth—in this case not forged
notes. There is the inevitable comedy scene
in a small township, the comedy consisting
in the fact that, every small town is funny
to the N’Yarker. There is the usual scene
showing the spendthrift, useless hero
suddenly transformed into a captain of
industry. _ The only difference this time is
that he is not running a drug-store, a
grocer’s shop or carpet tacks, but a chewing-
gum foundry. There is the capable girl
clerk waiting to marry him. And finally
there is the last scene on the front porch,
with the moonlight making even Jonesville
romantic. “Broadway Jones” has all the
familiar U.S. properties, but all slightly
shop-soiled. One wonders if Australians
are not getting tired of this imported
formula. The play produced last Saturday
betrays itself as a production that never
should have strayed from Broadway. It is
built for Broadway and Broadway’s view-
point. Else why the long speech in the
last act concerning Broadway? Few of
Saturday’s audience had seen Broadway.
Few ever want to.
* * * *
The play is badly constructed. It begins
in the second part of the first act, and ends
at the third act. The fourth act is palpably
unnecessary; and the first part of Act 1
merely shows that the hero comes home
drunk —and we learn by the conversation of
the other characters all we need to know
about Jones’s night out. Such a play with-
out Fred Niblo would last one consecutive
week—in Australia. Long familiarity with
the Cohan family of heroes has made him
expert, though it is not his fault if in this
comedy he continually raises the doubt
whether he isn’t the Fortune Hunter or
another of the Get-Rich-Quick tribe.
Sydney Stirling seems uncomfortable in his
love-making, but as the shrewd business
man he acts with his usual certainty.
George Bryant barks incoherently through
“PATIENCE" AT SYDNEY HER
MAJESTY'S.
his moustache. In a part of cheap humor,
that of an overgrown boy, E. Pirie Bush
contrives to look sufficiently ridiculous.
Edwin Lester is delightfully natural in one
of the few real characters amid this
assortment of machine-made parts. So, too,
is Marion Marcus Clarke. Enid Bennett
makes a charming ingenue. As an im-
possible farcical widow Mrs. Charles
Holloway overacts to the degree presumably,
regarded as necessary by the author. And
Josephine Cohan, more articulate than
usual, makes of the business girl a pleasant
heroine.
* * * *
Pretty little “Patience” was allowed a
look-in for three nights and a matinee, at
the end of the Gilbert and Sullivan season,
at Her Majesty’s (Sydney). Pearl Ladd,
in the title part, was a trifle staid for so
young and unsophisticated a dairymaid, and
her sweet, small voice was overburdened by
some of the music; but the staidness at
least can be debited to the village Sunday-
school. Chas. R. Walenn (Bunthorne)
did fairly well when he stuck to the book,
though he always lacked the delicious acidity
and slyness of Howard Vernon in the part.
And did Gilbert ever direct the futile poet
to indulge in punching by-play during the
furious fingers-snapping duet with Lady
Jane, when they rehearse his defiance of the
hated Grosvenor? Edward McKeown made
a suitably-heavy Duke, and Frank Wilson,
who is always a study in still life, bari-
toned clearly as Grosvenor. Ethel Morri-
son, the statuesque Lady Jane of the pro-
duction, was almost terrifying when she
chased Bunthorne at a reckless speed. It
suggested a small and wretched U.S. mil-
lionaire being pursued by an indignant
Goddess of Liberty. G. Villiers Arnold
made up as a bottle-scarred (be careful of
the spelling) Major Murgatroyd, and Albert
Ivavanagh (Colonel Calverley) struggled
gallantly to discharge all Gilbert’s words
over his chin-strap while the music galloped
before him. The last parting cheer goes to
the men-choristers. The co. farewelled in
gala style on Wednesday nisrht, with three
second acts —“Mikado,” “Yeomen of the
Guard” and “Pinafore.”
The Offended Esthere in “Patience," at
Sydney Her Majesty’s.
BUNTHORNE-WALENN : “Do you ever yearn,
girl?”
PATIENGE-LADD : “I yearn my living, sir.”
“Her Forbidden Marriage” was solemnised
at Sydney Adelphi on Saturday night; but
the management is even now suing for a
divorce, and it is expected that a decree nisi
will be awarded to-night (Thursday) by his
Honor Justice Time. As it might hurt the
feelings of the parties to print a description
of_ the ceremony and wedding breakfast at
this late and painful stage, The Bulletin
proposes to do the right thing and say
nothing—except that the next production
(due Wednesday, December 23) is the
panto. “The Babes in the Wood.” It looks
as if the Forbidden lady had secured her
divorce on the ground of desertion. If so,
it just shows how quickly a woman on the
stage can strike serious trouble.
Allen JDoone’s latest revival, “Sweet
County Kerry,” has been getting the glad
hand of the great Doone-Iveeley following
at the Palace (Sydney) since Saturday
night. ‘Kerry” is the most popular of
Doone’s Irish trifles, and The Bulletin
might be constrained to pass it the blarney
if the lead would refrain from singing.
Couldn’t somebody persuade Doone to learn
the Irish pipes and produce his songs
through them? It’s a desperate alternative,
but so is Doone’s voice.
* *
Amongst the new turns at Sydney Tivoli
are Alvaretta, Rego and Stoppit. They are
knockabout. comedians who make dreadful
noises at one another—the sort of sounds
that man presumably uttered when he first
descended from the ancestral tree. This,
with their weird make-up, lends a new touch
to the old business of unlimited assault and
battery. Vera Pearce has burst into the
Revue with n son? and dance, and the effect
is altogether pleasing. A 1 Hermann will
assassinate remorse for another week only.
Jack Cannot, Isabelle D’Armond. Wolf and
the rest continue to sing, gag and insult the
Kaiser with the utmost verve and freedom.
** * *
The White City, at Rushcutter’s Bay
(Sydney), re-opened on Saturday night last,
and the amount of business that poured in
was a record for the turnstiles. High-Com-
missioner Reid, who is evidently finding the
limelight a bit dull in London just now (he
has since gone to look for some in Egypt),
cabled out many-happy-returns or something
like that to the glittering township. The big
show-gardens are open nightly.
If ante Wolf and Isabelle D' Armond in the
Tivoli Follies , Sydney.
The Theatre League of N.S.W. is to bo
congratulated on having produced, for two
nights at the Sydney Repertory Theatre,
Wilfred T. Coleby’s emotional comedy, “The
Truants.” True, it is an extraordinarily
talky play; but the talk has pith in it.
It is the sort of play in which, just when
anything emotional is about to happen, one
of the characters remarks impressively: “Sit
down; I have" something to say to you.”
And he, or more usually she, does—though
the girl outside in the motor and all ready
to elope is kept waiting. The char-
acterisation is occasionally vague, but
delightfully original. There is even a girl’s
bedroom scene which deliberately renounces
the possibilities latent in every melodramatic
treatment of such a situation. The plot,
however, is altogether too complicated for
summarisation. Yet the inchoate comedy
is infinitely more interesting than, say,
“Broadway Jones,” and in the hands of a
brutal producer would entertain many audi-
ences. With this difficult play the amateur
actors did their best. F. Robert Forster
was admirable as an unconventional Bad
Man from Buenos Ayres; and Pearl Plog-
s.ted, as the heroine, had patches of bril-
liancy, but failed to keep the characterisa-
tion consistent. A quite natural stage boy,
played by Colin McDonald, was one of the
surprises of the production. Mary Butler,
the revolting flapper, had the necessary
audacity without the suggestion of charm.
She was bright, but perky. Support, or
lack of support, was provided by a numerous
cast.
On the Sydney screens:—
Crystal Palace : “Kathleen, the Irish Rose,” a
tinder thing with colleens and shamrocks in it
(apparently) made in the U.S.
Lyric : “The Impostor.” He sows and reaps wild
oats, and has a devoted old mother. Something to
weep over, if you like weeping in the gloom to
slow music.
Colonial: “Lynbrook Tragedy.” A pathetic tale
of stage life in two reels or staggers.
Empress: “Cymbeline,” a two-reel adaptation of
the Shakspearian play.
** * *
“Peter’s Mother,” presented by the'
McMahon amateurs at Melbourne Athenaeum
on Saturday, affords a picture of a superiah
English interiah containing all the custo-
mary details, from the respectable coal-
scuttle to the soured old maid knitting socks
in the corner. The butler is there dispens-
ing afternoon tea and victuals; the local
canon drops in at the psychological moment;
the family doctor appears at intervals to
make flank attacks on the spirit-stand ; and
the only absentee is the family cat. In this
atmosphere of half-baked scones those
present discuss themselves or titter the time
away in refined laughter and jest. Also
they refer to Peter and his precious mother,
mischievously nibbling at the subject of
mamma’s self-denial in temporarily rejecting
the suggestion of a happy second marriage
in order to devote herself to her darling
cub. This is the main theme of Mrs. de la
Pasture’s play, and she elaborates the point
of Woman’s self-sacrifice, engaging a Q.O.
to present the case. John Crewys, the Q.C.
in question, is the intended second hubby
of Peter’s ma, and, played by Helton
Daniell, he has generally all the outward
and visible signs of a quiet English
gentleman. But when moved by sen-
timental excitement he sounds like Garvice.
Peter’s papa, Sir Timothy Crewys, who
perishes early in the piece, is depicted by
Norman Carter, who puts sombre emphasis
on the importance of the Nonconformist con-
science in the Crewys character. Ten
minutes of his company would provide plenty
of material for suitable converse at after-
noon tea _ with a best Baptist family.
Woman’s inhumanity to Man is shown in
the authoress’s characterisation of an Angli-
can canon, and Man’s ingratitude to Woman
is illustrated by H. Chubb’s rather seedy
rendei’ing _of the futile part. T. Skewes
brings a likeable sincerity and a measure of
portliness to bear on the role of Dr. Blundell,
but Gerald Carr doesn’t reveal the military
side of Peter, and looks as if he would prefer
to be called Bertie. Miss Beatrice Day
revels in the heart-throb business of Peter’s
mater, but only pitches the emotional note
to. the limit allowable in a lady of breeding.
Miss Leon and Miss Winterson voice the
severely-correct feelings of two elderly
females, while Misses Kathleen and Isabel
Handley and Mr. C. W. Sparrow, in the
roles, deserve no word of reproach.
** * *
Her Majesty’s and King’s Theatres
'(Melb.) are in the throes of strenuous
panto, rehearsals, both “Cinderella” at Her
Majesty’s . and “Sinbad the Sailor” at the
King’s being due to appear next Saturday
night.


Cv
.4
P
mi
r.
X
6]
THE BIG COLD CURE
in the LITTLE BOTTLE
Have you tried “Nazetha”? Get a bottle from
your chemist to-day. Don’t take a substitute—
because there is no Cold Cure “Just as good.” Swal-
lowing drugs is harmful to the system—and does not
reach the root of the trouble.
“NAZETHA”
is the logical way to cure a cold. You just put two
tiny drops on your handkerchief, and snuff the sooth-
ing, refreshing, curing ethers through the nostrils.
Gives instant relief—and constant application will
surely cure a cold in the head. The curing ethers
permeate the lungs, and may be given to children
without anxiety or fear—it is harmless —but it cures.
Try a bottle.
1/6
Post Free
from Alex. Miller 8 Sons, Hobart.
Wholesale—Duerdin’s, Rocke’s,
and Felton’s, of Melbourne.
At Melbourne Royal, Muriel Starr, in tije
loud disguise of 1 atncia OI > .
Chorus Lady,” is now rescuing JtUeMM
Norah from a course of untrue love w
gentlemanly Don
Surging Her PoroL signature, and
looks like damaging the family escutcheon *
several places. The big so v ene . °, c n tu J.f„ V W the
the indiscreet damsel is about to Pjay t' e
unwilling female lead in an unpleasant little
drama, and sister Pat is blown in on a
hurricane of wrath and starts to wieck the
hopes of the gay deceiver. How Noiah is
saved from the impending peril, and lat
assumes the indelicate responsibilities for
the escapade, is related by Miss Stan wi
the same old display of Amurkan slang
slang that wraps a yard of language arou d
an inch of meaning. Her impersonation,
however, is very passable, though, to the
present writer, there is a suggestion or Miss
Brissac about Miss Starr’s picture of
Patricia, and there are also aspects recalling
both the easy method of Ethel Irving and
the breathlessness of Tittell Brune. Miss
Mary Worth is only moderately successful
as Norah, and Lincoln Plumer doesnt get
very near to the role of Patrick O Brien,
apparently on the plea that distance . lends
enchantment to the view. Boyd Irwin, as
Dan Mallory, and Miss Maggie Knight, as
Mrs. O’Brien, are worth subdued applause ;
while the wicked Dick Crawford of Cyril
Mackay obviously comes from the same
stable as Baron Audrey in “The Yellow
Ticket.” Among the damsels who lighten
the proceedings in the second act. Miss Mar-
jorie Soper is pleasing: while Miss Bremer,
as Sylvia Simpson, looks like an animated
controversy between a haughty English
duchess and a Parisian dress model without
any definite result either way.
** * *
This week’s calamity at . Melbourne
Princess’s is “The Luck of Roaring Camp.”
wherein a mysterious gold mine is the
source of much argument and frequent
resort to armed persuasion. Roland Conway
is the hero as usual, and Beckett and Jock
Kirby are two cases of homicidal mania
chafing at the limited supply of victims.
Much of their ammunition goes to ivaste,
and their plans are also spoiled through
the efforts of the reckless Conway afore-
said. Also Miss Dorise helps, in their
discomfiture, being assisted therein by an
uncommonly-ready shooting iron. Miss
Dale, in the dowdy raiment of a Greaser
female, loads the drama with heart interest
and a dreadful kid, while a Bridget and a
lamentable nigger serve up a mixture of
riot and common assault and call it “comic
relief.” Next Saturday the same Willoughby
co. will disclose “What Women Will Do for
Love,” and scenic artist J. S. Mann will
specially assist in the revelation.
** * *
The Four Ascots, mentioned by a
Bulletin Sundry Showman in Sydney last
week, are now shaking their understandings
simultaneously at Melbourne Tivoli. Also
they are tangoing and burlesquing the
Turkey Trot, and circulating a spurious
imitation of singing in a public place—for
which offence this paper orders then into
penal silenqe for ope year. Of the other
artists, who still include the excellent
Rickaby, only. Noble and Brooks call for
any special reproof. The gentleman’s
grimaces and the patter of both put a great
strain on the forbearance of a more-than-
sufficiently harassed community.
* * # . 4H
Among the new artists at Melbourne Bijou
are Irve Hayman and co., who are appearing
in a Christmas episode anent a burglar and
a little cheild. Two other recent additions,
White and Grey, score some points in a
musical-comedy scene, and Williams and
Warner, eccentric instrumentalists, are the
most entertaining of a batch of re-arrivals.
Meantime Josephine Gassman is still on view
with her piccaninnies.
A three-act Amurkan drama, “Men and
AVomen,” occupies the top place on the Hoyt
programmes at the Olympia and National
(Melb.) this week. The story is somewhat
musty, but is excellently filmed, and the
principal lady, Miss Blanche Sweet, is worth
several rounds of applause. War pictures
continue to prevail at both the Hoyt
theatres, where an animated war map has
also been recently installed.
* * *
Adelaide is in the strange position of hav-
ing its three theatres all closed. Mclntosh
announces that the Tivoli will be uncorked
for Christmas, and “Bunty” will be at the
Royal next week, when the Brennan-
Fuller show will also get busy again
at the King’s. Open-air entertainers
have the benefit meanwhile. Waller
has opened a new “Austral Gardens”
at the old Ayers mansion on North Terrace,
with a clever crowd freshly imported. Syd-
ney James is the chief: ventriloquist, whist-
ler, and a ready speaker. Halpin has a deep
voice, and when not using it has to sit about
and hear jokes made on his George-Reid-like
appearance. The dark-skinned Madeline
Rossiter is a brilliant dancer, and an un-
usual feature for this kind of show is the
strong orchestra, headed by the fiddler
Gregory Ivanoff. Across the road at the
Exhibition Gardens are Branscombe’s old-
established Dandies, who have a strong
following, too. George Brooke, of Mel-
bourne, sings for them, and Cahill,
of Brisbane, plays. Melba is reputed
to have said nice things of both young
men’s talent when she was in Adel-
aide. Also the former Hippodrome has
decided to call itself Star Gardens, partly to
get rid of a flavor of cheap melodrama asso-
ciated with the old name, and partly because
it is now connected with the Star picture-
house. ■ The Town Hall has seen yet
another bier Belgian concert, and the ’Var-
sity students packed the Exhibition for an
evening of highly-topical Revue on the war,
the Kaiser and the Orpen picture. Pem-
berton’s “Kronstadt,” at West’s, is the most
elaborate film in sight, but plain photos, from
thd war go as well as anything these times.
One Smith, of New York, desires that the
United States shall annex the North Pole.
But wouldn’t it be better to find the place
first. Surely nobody takes either Peary or
Cook quite seriously. .
AT POVERTY POINT.
“THE LUCK OF ROARING CAMP," AT
MELBOURNE PRINCESS'S.
Old Pard (Fred Kehot). Mrs. Mary O'Flynn.
Oh, these actresses, aching for advertise-
ment! Says one in Melbourne: “We of the
theatrical profession are sympathetic
towards the soldiers going to the front
because we know what war is. We know
the soldiers’ trials, we know the hardships
and horrors he is called upon to face.” The
mimic warrior pierced with an imaginary
bullet from a painted gun on a canvas battle-
field aches with sympathy for the bayoneted
soldier writhing in the slushy trenches at
Dixmude. Both are heroes, and a fellow
feeling makes them wondrous kind.
“Ami”: Fanny Brough’s death reassem-
bles the family. In the generation before
last William and Robert were popular-
writers of burlesque, vieing with Byron and
Burnand. Robert was very much the abler
of the pair—shone as a litterateur who was
even more radical and democratic than
Jerrold. He published a volume of smart
poems, among which “The Marquis of Car ab-
bas” obtained some fame for its bite. He
married Miss Romer, mother of Fan and our
Bob. She was a vocalist, afterwards known
in Australia as an actress.
The miscalled matinee is quite a recent in-
vention. J. N. Maskelyne, who has been
mystifying London for half a century, claims
to be its inventor. He started an afternoon
performance at the Egyptian Hall, and for
some time was able to advertise: “The only
entertainment in London this afternoon.”
Henry Irving dropped in one day. He
noticed the crowded house, and congratulated
Maskelyne on the splendid business. “Yes.”
said the wizard, “on the whole we do better
in the afternoon than the evening.” The
remark set Irving thinking, and soon after-
wards he started afternoon performances at
the Lyceum. Other managers followed suit,
and the Wednesday and Saturday daylight
performances became established institutions.
“Stargazer”: Beatrice Day, an excellent
actress, with a reputation gained in long,
arduous years on the professional stage,
showed to no particular advantage among
the amateurs in the Melbourne Repertory
Theatre’s production of Shaw’s “Philan-
derer.” She, rather more than the rest,
appeared out of perspective. The absence
of familiar stage-effects told upon her; she
was too near her audience, she derived no
advantages from the skimped setting, and
the small space to turn and manoeuvre in
affected her more awkwardly than it did the
players unhampered by conventions, and
used to the cribbed, cabined and coffined
drama which the Repertory provides. 1
have noticed the same trouble in much of
Gregan McMahon’s work on his Repertory
boards. It appears over-accentuated, staring,
and in somewhat qonfusing contrast with
the subdued, immature actors gathered aboui
him.
George Darrell is preparing his “Sunny
South” for the pictures.
One night last week the curtain fell on
Arthur Hunter, for 15 years past with J. O.
Williamson companies. In his cruel suf-
ferings from consumption he was devotedly
attended by his wife, Katie Potter, a hand-
some figure in comic opera in the days of
Nellie Stewart. A daughter, Miss
Hunter, is with “The Girl in the Taxi” m
Melbourne.
“C. Ockney”: “The Girl on the Film.”
the Christmas show at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney), will presumably be the last
flapper of the Gaiety brand for some time.
It is hardly likely that the J.C.W. firm
will tempt fortune by staging “After the
Girl,” which was the last George Edwardes
production at the Strand house and the least
successful ever staged there.
Frank Brennan, M.H.R., the other day
uncovered a Celtic Cross, temporarily raised
in the Royal Park, Melbourne, and to be
transmitted presently to the grave of
Professor “Freddy” Beard, a former
conductor of St. Patrick’s Cathedral choir.
A bronze mural tablet has been placed in
the Cathedral, and a memorial has also been
placed in St. Catherine’s Church, Birming-
ham, where “Freddy” was organist before
he came to the Melbourne Council.
“C. Ockney”: I asserted (B. 26/11/Y4)
that Australia’s much-liked theatrical
acquaintance, Ethel Irving, was appearing
in her original part in a revival of “The
Country Girl” at Daly’s, London, when, as
a matter of sober fact, something went
wrong with the plans, and a lesser light,
Mabel Sealby by name, is playing the role.
Wherefore it is up to me to apologise. Now,
name your drinks.
“Jean Sibi” : The Girl was in a bad way at
three Melbourne theatres last w T eek. At
the Princess’s she took the wrong turning
and travelled through the worst part of the
directory. At the Royal she took the wrong
ticket and was amazed to discover that she
was on the wrong line. And at Her
Majesty’s she took the wrong taxi and
allowed the champagne to transpire before
discovering her mistake.
Singer Blanche Arral, who while here did
her best to make her life a mystery and to
live up to the rumors of her press agent,
advertises in N’Yarli Dramatic Mirror an
alleged anti-fat tea; also “Arral’s Philtre
d’Amour.. . .a voluptuous perfume used ex-
clusively by the nobility and beautiful
women of the Orient.”
Reckoning that exceptional circumstances
have made the time ripe, Granville Barker
intends staging Thomas Llardy’s tremendous
poetic drama, “The Dynasts,” in London.
As published, the work has 19 acts and 130
scenes, and Hardy himself has said that it
is intended not for the stage but for “mental
performance.” However, lie has agreed to
its production, but asks for “a monotonic
delivery of the speeches, with dreamy, con-
ventional gestures,” and “gauzes and screens
to blur outlines and shut out the actual”;
and Barker, who d( lights in futurist “pro-
ducing,” is willing to supply the goods. Aus-
tralian Carrie Haase, who has already done
well in Shaw comedy, is to have a leading
part.
“Screen”: Apropos the cinematograph
pictures of Howard Payne, and his “Home,
Sweet Home.” He wrote a now-forgotten
comedietta entitled “Charles the Second,”
which was popular at Covent Garden
theatre. It introduced Captain Copp, a
stout naval character, who had a song:—
In the days of the Rump when old Admiral Trump
With his broom swept the chops of the Channel.
Fanny Kemble, daughter of Charles Kemble,
was once behind the scenes while her father
acted this Charles. The Duchess of St.
Albans came along, with her two step-
daughters, the Ladies Beauclerk. Said :
“Come, my dears, and see your ancestor.”
The Duchess had been Harriet Mellon, an
actress. Her first husband was Coutts, the
banker. She left about £1,800.000 to
her step-grand-daughter, Angela Burdett,
daughter of Sir Francis Burdett —this
as a smack in the eye to her step-
daughters, the Marchioness of Bute and
Conatess of Guildford, for snubbing her. It
was this Miss Burdett who became Baroness
Burdett-Coutts.
“THE LUCK
OF ROARING
CAMP ,” AT
MELBOURNE
PRINCESS'S.
One of the
“wimmin,"
Barnum Shaw has brought off another
circus coup. It is in the form of a letter
to President Wilson in which he “petitions
America” to request the belligerents to
“withdraw from innocent Belgium and hght
on their own territories.” To the knowledge
of Shaw, and of everyone else, the request
is as absurd as though he were to “petition
America” for a piece of Minnesota. Bis
cold-blooded action in pasting his advertising
bill on the epic form of stricken Belgium
is as unpleasant a thing as he has done.
“Aristide”: With the decline of the old
“legitimate” and the rise of the. music hall
and the revue, surely a city like Sydney
could run to one house, in line with those of
the Quartier de l’Opera in Paris, or the Halls
of the London West End. Take the Olympia
in the Boulevard des Capucines. There one
has seats of semi-armchair comfort, spaced
well apart; one pays for this accommodation
5 francs 0= 4s. 2d.), and one gets a show
quite as good as that at the Tivoli. Extend-
ing backwards from the last row of the fau-
teuils for some 80ft. is an airy, spacious,
soft-carpeted lounge, where one can either
stroll about and smoke between the turns, or
sit down at one of the numerous little cafe
tables, and have a reasonably-priced and well-
served drink. An evening spent in such a
house is a pleasing relaxation to legs, throat
and mind.
Pauline Chase, known for her interpreta-
tion of Peter Pan, has married money. For
a long time she was sort of semi-engaged to
Grahame-White, the airman who achieved
fame by flying against Paulhan in the Daily
Mail’s £lO,OOO race to Manchester, and who
rapidly achieved a solid bank balance as a
business man in the air trade. Pauline
Chase is very small, and is perhaps the
blondest woman in London. She is not
really an actress, but has charm and a very
definite individuality.
“Haresfoot”: A theatrical vanity is
brought to my mind by Mrs. Marcus Clarke’s
death. Her father, John Dunn, had a copi-
ous MS. autobiography, and was astonished
when Marcus read some of it and assured
him there was no money in it. Every thes-
pian of experience mused over his autobio-
graphy Those who are popular and adu-
lated conceive that nothing can sell so well.
I was in Cole’s when “Blue Tail Fly” Bar-
low came in, and wanted to negotiate for the
publication of his autobiog. He had ceased
buzzing for a generation, and bad been trying
to make sugar in Queensland. “The book
wouldn’t sell,” says the icy bookstore mana-
ger. “What? Barlow! Blue-Tail Fly!”
No, the public never heard of blue-tail flies.
William Barlow was as crestfallen as another
William Barlow I knew, who lost all his
performing dogs and monkeys in an Indian
shipwreck. Lambert, the comedian, well
known in Australia, left half a dozen MS.
vols. of the same sort with his nephew in
Richmond (Melb.). The nephew consulted
a literary man who would not even look at
it. Yet Lambert was long on the London
stage with Macready, Helen Faucit, Phelps.
C. Kean, Robson, Farren, Buckstone and
Webster, and in Australia he was a favorite
actor with Brooke, Sullivan and Jefferson.
“Harrison O.”: Why should a Repertory
Theatre present a play like “Peter’s
Mother,” which is Gregan McMahon’s latest
offering to Melbourne disciples of Ibsen,
Shaw, Strindberg and the rest? Mrs. Henry
de la Pasture’s tearful comedy has all the
dulness of a commercial success, and
belongs to the same class as that other
money-maker, “Nobody’s Daughter.” Its
bathos and crude humor would make it a
dainty dish to set before the King’s : but as
a “repertory” production it is scarcely more
welcome than “The Bad Girl of the Harem.”
Graves, whose “Secrets of the German
War Office” is delightful fiction, can’t always
avoid telling the truth. No man can. What
he says of the new German super-Zeppelins
may therefore be worth noting. The ordinary
Zeppelin is the unwieldy monster that is
always meeting with accidents. The super-
Zeppelin is a secret of the German General
Staff. It is not used in the general
manoeuvres. It has (this is Graves’s yarn)
eliminated 75 per cent, of the accidents
that characterised all Germany’s adventures
in dirigibles. It is non-inflammable. The
new dioxygen gas with which it is inflated
can be carried in liquid form; and in
cylinders 2ft. long anti Gin. in diameter
enough can be carried aboard to permit
their refilling in mid-air. The Xl5 carries
a crew of 24, six quick-firing guns, and
seven tons of explosives; and the newer
super-Zeppelins will carry twice that weight
of incendiary bombs. These beasts will
sail at 6000 ft., the crew nestling in warmed
cabins, while at that elevation a man in an
aeroplane is practically half-frozen. Accord-
ing to Graves, who, though a German, may
not always be a liar, the super-Zeppelin
has for these and other reasons nothing to
fear from a host of aeroplanes.
THE BATTLES THAT BOOM IN THE SPRING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is reported that the Germans intend to resume
the offensive in the spring.— Some war expert.
The battles that boom in the Spring, tra, la, have
little to do with the ease!
For Time, Bill, is still on the wing, tra, la!
A most undeniable thing, tra, la!
And he goes at a deuce of a pace!
Yes, he goes at the deuce of a pace!
And that’s why we grin when you savagely sing:
“You wait for the battles I’ll start in the Spring!”
Oh, bother your battles!
Oh, bother your battles! [Note: High shriek here.]
The battles you’ll start in the Spring!
The battles you’ll start in the Spring, tra, la, will
find out your shortage of men!
You’ve had quite a gory old fling, tra, la!
And sent them to death like a king, tra, la!
But, Bill, you can’t do it again—
They’re too dead to do it again !
And that’s why we laugh when you foolishly sing:
“You wait for the battles I’ll start in the Spring!”
We’ll start the next battles!
We’ll start the next battles! [Note: Another high
shriek.]
The battles that boom in the Spring! [Lively
dance on frontier.]
N.S.W.
GILBERT’S GHOST.
A MATTER OF TACTICS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I love being a “boy.” Tights for me, every tune.
I often wonder why the suffragettes do not demand
the abolition of skirts and petticoats.
-—Minnie Love, imported panto, artist.
A war against the petticoat
Would not, I think, attract
The Swankhurst sisterhood. Silk tights
They do not claim among their rights,
Because it might the fact
Reveal, should they their skirts abandon,
They’ve scarcely got a leg to stand on 1
Victoria.
HARRISON.


THE “DJ.” SUIT CASE
29/6, FOR THE XMAS HOLIDAYS.
The “D.J.” Suit Case is a splendid specimen of
Australian-made Goods. Manufactured entirely in
our own factory, from selected cowhide, well tanned
and highly polished, strongly sewn and well finished
in every detail. Steel frame. Inside straps. Two
lever spring locks. 14 inches wide.
Lengths.. 20in. 22in. 24in. 26in.
Prices... 29/6 32/6 35/6 39/6
Specially-selected cowhide, drop back lid, 15 inches
wide.
Lengths.... 22in. 24in. 26in.
Prices.... 40/- 43/6 47/6
We Pay Carriage
on Suit Cases.
DAVID JONES LTD
Opposite G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
A Triumph—whether cycle or motor cycle—yields the full enjoyment of the open road.
No other machine .s made with more —or equal—care to ensure the pleasure and comfort
of the rider.
Convincing evidence of this is the ever giowing band of Triumph liders numbering many,
many thousands of satisfied users on the road to-day.
The Triumph 4 h p. is equally suitable used solo or with s decar.
Catalogue and Triumph “Hints and
Tips’ ’ Booklet, post free.
?*0
tg*.
36
i
Triumph
VICTORIA: Milledee Bros., 264, Post Office' Place,
Melbourne. N.S. WALES : Bennett & Barkell Ltd.,130-132,
Castlereagh street, Sydney. S. AUSTRALIA : J. Hill and
Sons, Representatives, 63, Grenfell St., Adelaide;
Eyes & Crowle, Local Distributors, 125, Pirie St.,
Adelaide. W. AUSTRALIA: The Armstrong
Cycle & Motor Agency, Hay Street, Perth
QUEENSLAND: The Howard Motor & Cycle
Co., Ltd., 3/6-8. Que.n Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA: J. Bil. aid, The Havelock Cycle
and Motor Works, 141, Elizabeth S.reet, Hoba.t.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
“Q. 1.8.”: Something of a mild sensation
has been caused amongst Red Cross workers
by a letter from a couple of soldiers at
Rabaul, who told how, after paying 11s. 6d.
for some pyjamas in a local store, they
found notes in the pockets showing that the
garments had been prepared by Sydney
women as free gifts to the troops. Labored
explanations are being offered, but the true
one has not yet seen light. Here it is—bald
and unbeautiful. Somebody at the Rabaul
end has been making a bit. In the South
African war, base depots were crammed with
presents for the troops which the warriors
never saw, and quarter-masters and quarter-
master sergeants waxed fat and flush,
even to the purchase of pubs, when
they returned to their native land.
Bigger men than these, too, had a
cut. Vast quantities of the stuff worked
so laboriously by Australian women and
girls for their men at the S’African front
went, through low-down Kaffir kantoors,
kept by Jew “fences,” to the comforting of
Basuto transport drivers —or worse.
Concerning “the highest tribunal in the
land”:—
In the Zinc Corporation case mentioned
in the cables last week the Chancery Judge
remarked that his decision would undoubtedly
be reviewed by “the highest tribunal.” In
the ease of an Australian suit this would mean
the Privy Council; in the United Kingdom it means
the House of Lords. This proceeding, like the
lawns of the Cathedral closes, is such an incrusta-
tion of ceremonial as could only accumulate in a
country which has not known invasion for a thou-
sand years. The Lords’ Chamber is not built for
business. It is far too large, and the human voice
wanders and is lost in the carved and golden spaces
of its roof. The theory is that the House sits qua
House to try all causes; but actually only the Law
Lords take their places. There is a small pen
about 10ft. x 10ft. at the main exit door, and into
this the Bar is huddled. On a trial the members
of the House take places down near this pen, and
the Chancellor sits not upon the Woolsack, but on a
chair in the middle of the floor. The Law Lords are
dressed in morning suits, the Chancellor in his robes,
and the “silks” wear Charles 11. wigs. The oratory
is of a style one hears nowhere else. Yet another
style—in its turn differing completely from that of
the High Court —obtains in the Privy Council. The
only similarity between the three is that all differ
basically from the form favored by the great
American advocate, “the Cicero of the Pacific Slope,”
who recently reduced a jury to sobs by concluding
his address with the singing of “Home, Sweet
Home.” The manner employed in the Lords is that
of the late 18th and early 19th centuries. Its
present-day masters are John Simon and Sir llobert
Finlay, the latter the son of a Scottish peasant, and
one of the rarest brains in Britain. Its greatest
living past master is Asquith, and he is the great
exemplar of modern times. Fees marked upon the
briefs of such men run sometimes to thousands
of guineas. On judgment each peer reads his deci-
sion. Thereafter, and whilst the Law Lords keep
their places, the Lord Chancellor starts on the long
walk down to the Woolsack at the other end of the
great Chamber, and taking his seat upon the historic
bale, he “moves the House,” and concludes by say-
ing that he thinks “the Ayes have it,” which indeed
they have. The House then adjourns.
* * * *
Advt. from S. M. Herald (4/12/’l4) :
WANTED, any person who saw man assaulted in
Itandle-street, near Subway, Monday last, and bull-
dog taken away, .send address to , Solicitors.
The fact that we have men amongst us who
will not only assault those accompanied by
bulldogs, but will actually steal the dogs
themselves, should be a warning to the
Kaiser that the race still rings true to type.
X- * * »
There were two statutes lying in wait
for Ahlers, naturalised British subject arid
ex-Consul for Germany in Sunderland
(Eng.). The older of them had waited
for him nearly GOO years. This was the
one under which he was condemned to
death (25 Edward III.). The other was
the Treason Felony Act of 1848. Both
provide for such a ease as his. The older
weapon is the more thorough inasmuch as
it can kill, whereas the worst the Treason
Felony Act can do is to infiict penal servi-
tude for life. The Edward 111. statute makes
it capital to “compass or imagine” the
death of the Sovereign and to “violate the
King’s companion, or the King’s eldest
daughter unmarried, or the wife of the
King’s eldest son.” It is most improbable
that Ahlers was indicted for “levying war
against the King,” as stated by the cables ;
it is far more probable that the fragment
of the ancient statute which slew him is
the one which makes it treason to “be
adherent to the King’s enemies in his realm,
giving to them aid and comfort, in the
realm, or elsewhere.”
A STUDY OF A DOG AND A DOGMA.
UNCLE SAM: “I reckon it's time to call off the bluff end r< assure those fellir; that the
animal ain’t as fierce as he looks.”
IN HIS ELEMENT.
ALLEGED BUTLER (engaged Jor the occasion): "Shay when."
“Solomon Malaprop”: I am sorry to be
late with this item of information, but I
hasten in a belated fashion to report that
the Peace Society has held its annual meet-
ing. The faded spinster with the corkscrew
curls has protested against the present cam-
paign. The lady with the debilitated cotton
brolly has done likewise. The stout married
lady with twins has stated that bombard-
ments should be put down with a firm hand
—and, if you come to think of it, that is
just what Joffre and the Grand Duke
Nicholas and French and King Albert and
King Peter and King Nicholas of Monte-
negro are trying to do. They all hate bom-
bardments, having experienced too many of
them. The last words of Cradock, the
British admiral, were probably to the effect
that bombardments aren’t all they are
cracked up to be, and when General de
Guise dragged the ruins of his garrison out
of Antwerp he probably said words to
the same effect. There is nothing in this
world that I admire more than a Peace
Society—if we could only get peace. My
theory is that all the Peace females should
go to Servia or Belgium or Poland and do
service as nurses. In these countries the
disadvantages of war can be viewed at short
range. I believe that a Peace female who
came back from the battle-field around
Lcdz, which seems to have been the greatest
scrimmage in history, would be strengthened
and reinforced, and invigorated, and bucked-
up, and filled with new ardor and frenzy
and religion, and would know something
about the horrors of war that she never
knew before. Incidenlally she might realise
that, if the comparatively peaceful Russian,
despite all his military preparations, suf-
fered such a bad time, he would probably
have suffered a worse time at the hands of
the Gerhog supposing he hadn’t prepared.
* * * *
The President of the British Admiralty
Division, whilst sitting in Prize, emphasised
recently the low esteem in which the Court
instinctively holds the ever-assiduous attor-
ney. “Sam” Evans, the President, was
amiably discussing matters with counsel for
a German owner, when he suddenly inquired
with heat “what right a solicitor had to
have intercourse with an enemy ?” Not a word
of reproach was addressed to counsel, who had
also had intercourse with the Deutscher in
the form of a consultation. Worse hap-
pened in the more strenuous days of 1727.
One highwayman (Everett) sued another
(Williams) for an account of profits. The
judge “threw his parchment at the learned
counsel,” who was subsequently disbarred,
but the attorney had his property seques-
trated and was transported for life. Also
he was fined £5O.
BOOTY!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Even thieves are showing patriotism in this great
crisis,” said Sir Robert Wallace, lv.C., addressing
the Grand Jury at the London Sessions. “There has
been a diminution of 40 per cent, in the crime of
the city of London. Praise is due to criminals for
the exercise of self-restraint in this period of stress
tnd strain.”
Said Burglar Sikes to Burglar Bill,
A-wipin’ of ’is massive brow:
“Old England’s goin’ down the ’ill,
She’s got to take a bitter pill,
An’ many a crib an’ many a till
Will not be worth the crackin’ row ;
Wot can we do ter show the town
Our ’cart’s with Britain w’en she’s down ?”
To Burglar Sikes sez Burglar Bill:
“0 Bill, you are a patriot true ;
You feel your land is in a 'ole,
An’ ’stead of plottin’ in yer soul,
’Ow you can kick a simple goal
Or lift an ehsy swag or two,
You sez: ‘Our country’s in a mess,
An’ we should ’elp ’er.’ I sez ‘Yes.’
“Suppose we do not burglarise
As careless as we used to do;
We will not break the ’earth and 'ome
Of Atkins who is o’er the foam;
To orficers abroad who roam
No mischief will our jemmies do;
But toffs who will not march an’ fight
Shall be our prize ’enceforth by night.
“And coves whose names is ‘berg’ and ‘stein’
Shall be our true and lawful prey ;
An’, just like Drake an’ ’Awkins did,
We’ll find where foreign loot is ’id,
An’ lift by night the bloomin’ lid,
An’ bear the shinin’ brads away.
’Ow will the Kaiser rise an’ cuss
The moment w'en ’e ’ears of us !
“Of course, a cove ’as got ter live—•
The burglar’s worthy of ’is ’ire.
But we will burg, so cau-tious-ly
That simple folk will cry with glee;
‘Them burglars, they must patriots be ;
At crackin’ cribs they do not tire;
But, where they crack, ’tis plain to see,
They plug their country’3 enemy !’
“An’ so, we two, O pardner Bill,
Will some’ow get our dooty done;
Our income may fall off a bit,
But now an’ then we’ll make a hit
An’ land old Swartz or Beit or Schmidt
Be’ind the cere-bellium one;
And w’en their gold is garnered in,
Be’old —we gloat on ’ostile ‘tin’!
“For, think! If Schmidt ’ad ’ad ’is way,
Them brads to buy new guns would go,
An’ submarines an’ shot an’ shell
To give our gallant Tommies ’ell;
But now ’is bullion’s gone to swell
The pockets of a British foe ;
A man in any line,” said Bill,
“Can Do ’ls Dooty—if ’e will!”
And this was how these noble souls
Responded at Old England’s call,
Till, having made a decent pile,
By skinning foes of Britain’s Isle,
They settled down in modest style
Beneath their vine and figtree small.
And London blest them while she slept,
And when they died their country wept.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
AT A DISTANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O Pretty Girl I do not know !
Inside your summer veil
I glimpse your sweet young face aglow
And your round throat so pale.
I love those arms kind Fashion leaves
On view inside white muslin sleeves.
A ring of diamonds shows you are
Engaged to some young man ;
Just now, no doubt, he is afar —
But how I hate his ban
That signals with a flash, “She’s mine!"
Ah, well! I shall respect that sigi.!
To gaze at you is .joy indeed,
And I am satisfied
To watch you, slily, as you read
Upon the shady side.
Just let me look while you await
The surfing boy who is your mate !
One thing alone would break the spell
That you have* cast o’er me ;
It is that one who knows us well
Should introduce us ! Gee !
The prospect causes me alarm,
For, dear, your silence is your charm!
N.S.W.
THE MARRIED MAN.


THE
_ M«VP
A- . v»
«3PLfiTS«s
sS&T?:
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund, £525,000.
Reserve Inability of Shareholders, £715,464.
Divertors- JOHN GRICE, Esq., Chairman; H. M. ST RACHAN, Esq., Vice-Chairman; EDWARD
TRENCHARD, Esq.; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD.
SYDNEY OFFICE, 60 PITT STREET. Manager, R. S. Gregson; Acct., F. Cleave.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgate, E.C.
Pack One “Quikclean” Collar
—it is all you will need during your holiday.
When soiled simply rub over with soap and
water. The “Quikelean” is non-celluloid,
does not glisten like it, nor is it dangerous
from fire. Made of good Irish shirtings—
impregnated by special process. This is quite
a new line, just from England.
Two styles: Double, lfin., 2in. or 2Jin. deep ;
and single, with rounded peaks, 2 inches deep.
1/6 EACH.
The collars are absolutely waterproof, but
closely resemble linen. Cleaned like new in
a few moments.
Please state size and style.
-©*
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George St«, Sydney
Sydney Daily Telegraph made a bad
break the other day in its early editions. In
telling the story of King George’s visit to the
British soldiers at the front, it reported that
“at a certain point of the tour the staff sug-
gested that it would be unsafe for his
Majesty to visit the trenches which have
recently been the object of artillery fire.”
And, according to the ’Graph, this was the
King’s staggering reply :
There is no reason why I should take risks. The
soldiers take them.
The only thing that saved the brand-new
editor from being taken out and shot was the
haste with which the missing “not” was
shoved into later editions. The libel sug-
gests that there is room for a night-shift of
censors in the vicinity of King-street.
WHERE HE GOT ONE HOME.
H IM: "Then I suppose I’m always wrong?"
H ER: “Not always. You are right this
time."
At Alexandra (Vic.) recently one McGin-
niss was charged with ■ “having worked on
the Lord’s Day,” contrary to a statute of
the reign of the blessed and pious Charles
11. It seems there was a bit of very bad
road near Marysville, and McGinniss
attended to it as a matter of urgency. Not-
withstanding this plea a humorless Bench
fined him five bob. As the alternative under
the Act is confinement in the stocks, and
as there are no stocks to confine him in, it
is to be hoped McGinniss poured derision
on the antiquated law by choosing to “take
it out.”
“Adelaide” : To speak of water as “the fluid
that Adelaide nowadays scrapes with a stick
out of a tap” (B. 3/12/’l4), is flat blas-
phemy. Adelaide’s taps run as free and
clear as ever. The position is, simply,
that if no rain falls before the end of March
there will be a shortage then; so the use of
pipe-water for the myriad gardens of
Adelaide is prohibited for the present. But
that is all. Nobody need even go without a
bath.
THE DETRIMENTAL
MA: “You can't tell what she can see in him? My dear girl, the man has five thousand
a year.”
MAMIE: “What a pity!”
MA: “A pity? Surely money is no drawback to a man?”
M AMIE: “No; but the mans such a drawback to the money."
It is losing its novelty, but, in case a
stranger has arrived in Australia since the
last time it happened, the two stories had
better be printed. Upon returning home
late one recent evening the master and
mistress of a villa in Carlton (Melbourne)
found their domestic tied by the hands and
feet, and with a sponge gag in her mouth.
Her narrative was that two men had forced
their way into the house, seized her, carried
her upstairs and, after
tying her up. had robbed
the place of £46 found in
a locked drawer. The
hunt by the police for
the desperadoes was
called off when the ten-
der young thing con-
fessed that she had tied
herself up and invented
the robbery in order to
create a sensation. The
other girl, who lived in
West Melbourne, roused
the neighborhood by a
realistic account of a des-
perate struggle with a
masked man, and showed
bleeding wounds on her
throat and arm in proof
of her assertion. These,
she explained, had been
done with a razor, by a
German workman, who
had been put out of a job
through her father’s in-
fluence. Under the de-
tective’s. cross-examina-
tion she also broke down,
and confessed that the
wounds were self-in-
flicted with a brooch pin.
Her reason for concoct-
ing the yarn was that
her parents “treated her more like a servant
than a daughter,” and she wanted to be a
heroine and make them think more of her.
The amazing ingenuity of woman!
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —I’ve just been arrested
in George-street, Sydney, for sketching a
public building in war time. I had to make
a drawing of the street for a company
which wanted to show the position of its
new business premises, and I went along
early in the morning, so that a curious
crowd should not gather round me. Pre-
sently a large policeman came up and asked
if I was “Doin’ a bit of sketchin’.” I
answered jovially that I certainly was not
“Doin’ a bit of plumbin’.” “What’s it for?”
he asked. “An advertisement,” I obediently
replied. “Well, you ought to know better
than to stand in the public street doin’ a
sketch these times!” I told him I should
have thought of the military law if I’d been
near a fort, but it was obvious that the
drawing was not for military purposes.
“Doesn’t matter,” he said. “You’d better
come along with me!” I told him that when
he’d finished his little joke I would go on
with my sketch. “It’s no good,” he said,
(presumably meaning the joke). “You
come along with me!” He was a large police-
man, so I went. “Where to?” I asked. “The
Post Office,” he grunted. On the way he
met another policeman. They discussed
the situation, examined the drawing, and
finally escorted me to a G.P.O. official.
“H’m!” said he, looking at my inoffensive
sketch. “You’d better see the censor!” The
censor was out, but his clerk said I’d better
leave the sketch and come hack later. Here
I lost the policeman after he had ornamented
his books with notes and descriptions. Later
I saw the censor, lie explained that I
should have got permission before starting.
Then he decorated my sketch with a stamp
and advised me to see the Inspector-General of
Police. I saw his secretary. It was suggested by
him that I was obstructing the traffic, and he
transferred me to the Head of the Metropoli-
tan Police, and from him I was passed on to
the Provost-Marshal. He forgave me and
issued a permit to complete the sketch.- --
Yours truly, Sydney Ure Smith. (P.S. —I
have since finished the sketch, and am now
taking a week’s holiday.)
A South Australian father, who had asked
his only son, in residence at Oxford, not to
go to the war, has had to cable a consent at
last. The position was becoming intolerable,
the boy wrote, with “only Yanks and niggers
and a few rotters” left in the colleges. Cam-
bridge is in the same case, and the boat race
—solemn, unalterable fixture as it has been
for 70 years or so —is, by mutual consent,
not to be thought of till the war is over.
* * * *
It is said that the Von der Tann, one of
the tip-top German battle-cruisers, is at
Buenos Ayres. The idea presumably is to
work it round Cape Horn and so get some-
thing like a match for the Australia into
Pacific waters. The Von der Tann is
named after the bailiff of German history.
When the amount of the French indemnity
was fixed after the war of 1 *7O, the Ger-
mans announced that they would leave an
army “in possession” in Paris till the debt
was discharged. Earlier in the war Von
der Tann had disobeyed an order, and by
doing so had scored a small but useful vic-
tory. To punish this disobedience the
Germans made him man in possession,
and left him in Paris to collect the cash.
The General was given an easier task than
that of the ship which bears his name, as
France, by unremitting effort, speedily raised
the enormous sum necessary to pay him off
the premises. If the Von der Tann is an
escapee from Wilhelmshaven, the Deutscher
Amiralissime has made the familiar mistake
of sending something that is nearly, but not
quite, good enough, as the Australia’s guns
are 12in., and the Von der Tann’s only llin.
Moreover, the Australia has five years the
better of it in point of age; and in these
matters, above most others, “youth will be
served.”
From “The Oldest Inhabitant” :
The old homes of the first families have a habit
of passing to the State or the religious sects. Ihe
latest handed over is Carrara, at Rose Bay, which
becomes a State Home for Women. The house was
built in the first ’4o’s by John Hosking, of the one-
time wealthy firm of Hughes and Hosking. This
Hughes was a nephew-of Australia’s first millionaire,
Samuel Terry, of Pitt-street and elsewhere—chiefly
elsewhere. He married Sam’s step-child, Esther
Marsh. John Hosking married a daughter of Sam
Terry, and became first Mayor of Sydney (1813).
That was the year of Australia’s first serious finan-
cial crisis, and his Worship’s own troubles compelled
his resignation. John, who was the son of an early
schoolmaster connected with the Orphan Asylum,
vacated Carrara in the ’7o’s. After passing through
many hands it sheltered a Boys’ School. Now, like
Newington, the old home of the Blaxlands, it be-
comes a refuge for decayed ladies or convalescent
women.
* * * *
The United States grows a curiously yellow
and faded variety of sentimentalism —the old-
maid variety which one naturally associates
with Aunt Lois and Aunt Keziali, of New
Hampshire, or Miss Ophelia, of Vermont.
Thug we get telegrams of this sort: —
A motion has been introduced into the United
States Senate urging a 21 days’ truce in order to
stimulate the belligerents to reflect upon the mean-
ing of Christmas.
The sort of thing is good enough for Senator
Cliadband at Washington, with his turkey
arid cranberry sauce; but several million
starving Belgians would probably rather
fight than reflect, so as to get the misery over
all the sooner. Besides, there are plenty of
intervals for reflection between the battle
and the hunger. And when the campaign is
costing some £4,000,000 a day who is going
to spend £84,000,000 in thinking about Christ-
mas? It would be a more sensible idea for
the Standard Oil Trust to give up its bad
habits for 21 days and reflect about the bones
of Elijah or some holy subject of the sort.
* * * *
Mysterious cable message of last week: —
According to the Berlin Vossisciie Zeitung the
Khedive is reported to have said that Turkey was
going to strike England in her most vulnerable point.
The enterprise had been most carefully prepared.
Evidently the indomitable old Turk intends
to once more file his schedule.
* * * *
“Blue Peter”: The British Admiralty’s
order that the blue ensign is not to be
flown by merchant ships during the war—
an obvious precaution—has just been offi-
cially published in the Commonwealth. Only
three classes of craft fly this ensign at sea
or in port. First, the merchantman whose
WHILE HE LASTED.
“Well, Doc., I see you've lost old Pottspoynt
at last."
"Um, yes. Still 1 did very well out of him
while he lasted. A couple of amputations,
14 anasthetics, six years attendance and
the usual operation for appendicitis. Um,
yes.”
skipper is a R.N.R. man and has a sufh-
ciency of R.N.R. in the crew. Second, the
yacht clubs that : have been granted the
distinction of calling themselves > ‘ royal,
The third class is the irresponsible
idiot who flies the blue ensign because
it is _ pretty or because it matches
his girl’s frock or her eyes. One °*
the admirals we had out on the Australian
station some years ago took the blue bunt-
ing business very seriously, and he kept a
fast launch on tap to chase blue-ensign
motor-boats and sailing craft. By threaten-
ing offenders with the fine of £5OO provided
under the Merchant Shipping Act he cleared
the coast. For the still more dreadful
offence of flying the white ensign—which
may only be done by ships of the R.N. or
A.R.N. or vessels of the R.Y.S.—another
admiral, or it may have been the same one,
actually fired on a Sydney yacht.
WARFARE: ANCIENT AND MODERN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The outward shape of war has
greatly as in the light of modern invention we mignt
have expected. — English paper.
The Assyrian came down like a wolf on e
The sheepyard belonging to Moses of old—
And Sennacherib’s siege guns on beds of cement
Were as big and destructive as men could inven .
On motor-cars brought from Damascus and Tyre
Their machine gups were easy to handle and fire,
While on Olivet batteries stood in a row,
Which completely commanded the valley below.
With twenty-five army corps ready for fight,
And their Uhlans all massed on the hills to the
right,
It was odds that Rabshakeh’s derision and scorn
Would be followed by corpse-making shells on the
morn.
There was nothing old Judah could possibly do
In the face of such shells as the howitzers threw,
And, in fact, ’twas as plain as the toe of your boot
That the Ninevite hosts had the city to loot.
But the Angel of Death spread his wings on the
blast,
And breathed on the face of the foes as he passed •
Or, to be more exact, they expired as a pill
Was tossed from a gun on the opposite hil.
So next morning Sennacherib’s crowd was on view,
An exhibit of turpinite’s work for the Jew,
And. the place .wasn’t looted and everyone read
The poem by Byron and buried the dead.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


tore 6ev*n&»i
S&ys 'We t
vic'forioa^
The Chief Secretary (Mr. Murray)
said that the people were very proud of
*leibourna, but there was one thing
about which it could boast very little ,
Its statues.
(A+ *>»IV«»I«T3 of
C°°KS
*»- s?KUd^)
Mr. Ruth: l/ l don't-beli'eve there wilt.
■be any Baptists or Protestants lit
Heaven. We Will outgrow those things
before we gel to Heaven, and be in
Heaven, dot because we are Baptist or
Protestant, hurt-because we are Chris<
tian.”—Melb. paper.
Voice or Deceased:- ')s <io+“der
Bureau.? on mil
dtY ln Sj>it£
of ajl <defea,+y we win."
Vouiro Vic
We t*. w &» r ir A
| n iour broadly SuslSeied
i»,w.V.lifer. you ye *
<are^*n.
i '
'fije. T- \
f>y.t\udeA • I "mis
bussed me djiywljera.
"PoTer - you>e mistaken
r de*<*he*As in Weayen!
Speaking broadly, the new Tariff isa'
revenue instrument, carefully invested'
with a Protectionist complexion. It
contains several individual items of a
genuinely Protectionist character, but,
regarded as a whole, it begs the question
of effective national Protection.—" Age.”
AsjndLy Fisher: ’ Joiay
oot" yoiKr lije
Certain aspects of the “White Aus-
ifralia" .policy were discussed at the
Anglican Synod yesterday. Rev. A. W.
Creswell submitted a motion condemn*
,ing the Immigration Act as “oppres-
sive, un-British, opposed to the law of
Cod, and menacing the morality of the
Australian community, since it practi-
cally prohibited the Chinese already
domiciled amongst us from having their
ttlyes here.”—Mejb. papyri
’’li?e
'He-baJA
>*\
To our i< \
v s s Jpl®'o*ty TwrK®y
‘S'ivv)*,
■fte Allies, U '
in E>»pfc.
The R«y.C*rits . — ,
our Avsfr^’* n * We
breed 'em liK« iftarT by h«oK or
by crooK. *
X*v*£
WAR AND ODDS AND ENDS.


Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.
M
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
M
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA,
M
■ () td
~OP notch
Scoiyc TV
'^■■vGnfuxy/U
&Bis%£&£
THE "TOP NOTCH” SCOTCH.
“KING GEORGE IV.”
WHISKY.
A UNIFORM STANDARD of QUALITY.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
A THEOLOGICAL POINT.
BOARDER: “Pardon me for asking, Mrs.
Hashit; but are you a Jewess? ”
MRS. HASHIT : “Sure, I am not, sir. And
what makes you ask?”
BOARDER: “Well, ever since I came here I've
had nothing but burnt offerings and
sacrifices.”
“Herman Hogg”: I notice that the
Maharajah of Bikanir is taking a hand in this war.
The name recalls pleasant memories. I never was
at Bikanir, but I changed trains once at Bikanir
Junction. I remember a hdt evening, a blazing
sunset, a train that was very late, a long platform
built of reddish stone, a red railway station, a red
landscape, some frightfully bad and heated beer, a
colored station-master who didn't know anything, a
refreshment-room official who knew less, a friendly
monkey who gibbered at me, and a young English
officer who was on the sick list. And it was there
that Lazarus was kicked as he had never been kicked
before, Lazarus being a fat, oily Christian servant
who became unduly impertinent to the two English
ladies he was supposed to be serving. Also, a camel
hovered somewhere in the background.
“Outcast”: I don’t agree with “Wiorubi”
and even less with “Machete,” in recent Bulletin's
about Papuan river “bores.” There are only three
rivers that possess this uncanny article, and, per-
sonally, in whichever one I meet it, I am prepared
to treat it with respect. The Baniu bore is un-
doubtedly the biggest, and I reckon it runs up to
eight or nine feet, or more, in height during the
equinoctial springs. The Fly bore is also big, and
in both rivers the thing runs at each flood of the
tide for five days at full and new moon. The
Turama bore once possessed a fearsome reputation,
principally based on a report of Sir William Mac-
gregor; but my experience is that it is only a
couple of feet high. 1 can’t swallow a 17ft.-high
bore reported in the Fly, and I reckon I have met
just as many bores of all kinds as “Wiorubi,” who
must be mistaking a choppy sea in the Fly for the
bore when he reckons it*is never more than 18in.
* * * *
“Mallee Root”: Re the rabbit curse. Why
risk bush fires and animal or human life by poison
where the country is held in small holdings, I hold
a mallee block where the curse sits round the fences
when we are seeding, thinking of joy-days to come
when the wheat begins to grow. When seeding is
over (and also at any other time of the year when
time hangs heavily) we take the dray and load up a
quantity of old bags and straw, a spade, some pieces of
bags cut in squares about 12 x 12 inches, and about
201 b. or 301 b. carbide, in lumps about pigeon’s-egg
size. The pieces of bags about 12 xl2 inches are placed
in a bucket of water and kept soaking wet. We
know from experience where, all the burrows are,
and proceed thus: Take a piece of wet bag and wrap
in it an egg of the carbide, throw it into the burrow
as far as it will go, then push, in an old bag or
some straw just into the mouth of the burrow and
cover with earth to make air-tight. Do this to
every burrow you come across, and bunny dies a
painless death from the gas generated. I have
found this very effective, and haven’t lost any sleep
over Brer Rabbit for years. A dog or two to drive
strays into the burrows helps, because it’s the one or
two left outside that sometimes open up the burrows
again.
* * * »
“Constant Washer”: It’s a long, involved
business getting a surf-bathe at Manly on a hot
Saturday. This is how I put in a recent afternoon:
1. Paid 2d. to pass through the turnstile.
2. Waited 10 minutes in front of the damp
inferno where the suits and towels are. Confronted
at last by one of the young men, I asked him if
1 could get a cubicle: He said, “Go and see the
chap upstairs.”
3. Toiled up the wet staircase amongst wet,
dry, naked and partly-naked bathers. Saw a busy
attendant and made one of his train of customers.
Walked three times round the roof while he disposed
of all the customers ahead of me. When he turned
to me I said, “Have you got a spare cubicle?”
He countered with: “Yes; got a ticket?” I thought
1 would have to go back and start all over again,
but he was a merciful attendant and personally
sold me a ticket for 4d. I cheered inwardly when
at last I got into my own refuge. (There is an in-
terval here while I undress, emerge from the cubicle,
slam the door, thread my way downstairs, and throw
myself into the sea.) , ~ ,
4. When i had done with the Pacific I walked
out, promenaded back to the sheds, climbed to the
roof, saw the attendant, attended him twice round
the roof, and at last got into the place where my
clothes were. Then I found I had forgotten to hire
a towel! Took a penny out of my trouser pocket,
slammed the door of the cubicle, and toiled down-
St another wait in front of the window of
the towel inferno I caught the eye of a young
man who was making out wills in duplicate. ‘ I want
a towel,” I said. “Where’s your hat?” said he.
Then, seeing my look of amazement, he explained:
“I can’t give you a towel until you give me your
hat as security.” , , ,
6. As I never bathe in my hat I had to climb to
the roof again and pursue the cubicle attendant.
After a slight delay of five minutes or so I got in
to where my hat was. As there was no friend with
me to guard my clothes, and as I felt 1 couldn’t
trust the other customers if the shed authorities
couldn’t. I was compelled to slam the door again.
Then downstairs once more to wait at the crowded
counter. , , , .
7. When my turn came he took over mv hat and
the penny and laboriously made out two wills, which
he cautioned me not to lose. Then, with all due
solemnity he bestowed on me a towel which I per-
sonally would never have thought of stealing. By
this time I was so hot and dry with hurrying up and
down stairs that a towel was a superfluity. But
T was as glad to get it as if it had been the Holy
Grail.
S. When the hurrying roof-attendant turned to see
who his next customer was and found me he seemed
annoyed. “Didn’t I let you in before?” heasked.
“You did!” I replied. “You have been letting me
in all the afternoon. You see, I’m only a beginner
and the ritual is new to me.” He looked at me
coldlv, turned his key in a lock and threw open the
door.' “Don’t shut it again until you’ve done with
it,” he said, and went on his rounds.
9. When I had dressed I gathered up the precious
towel and the two wills, stepped out of the accursed
door and slammed it.
10. Down the wet stairs for the very last time,
o-ripping the inferior towel and the two wills. An-
other wait at the counter, and at last, in fair and
honorable exchange for the two wills and the low-
grade towel, my hat! Tt isn’t much of a hat—never
was—but I was dreadfully glad to get it again and
feel that I was a complete human being once more.
As I walked away from the door and became one
of a crowd that was neither naked nor wet, I had a
feeling that I had fought my way through a very
formidable mass of machinery. But simple, unsus-
pecting people, who merely want to wet themselves
all over in the sea shouldn’t be allowed to walk
blindly into such enormous transactions. The Manly
Council should supply guides and issue a simply-
written manual. I may say that I don’t intend to
do it again. Next time I want to be buffeted about
and carried off my feet and humbled, I shall have a
row with somebody and fight an equity suit. It’s
cheaper and simpler.
THE PRODIGAL'S RETURN.
PROUD PARENT: “Well, Dick, old boy, how are you getting along at law?
PRODIGAL: “I have one client, Dad?"
PROUD PARENT: “Is he wealthy?”
PRODIGAL: “He was."
“Piekhandle”: Re “J.J.C.’s” remarks on
camel-breeding' (B. 12/11/ , 14). He is evidently not
aware that the South Australian Survey Department
has a camel depot at Mt. Serle, 375 miles north of
Adelaide, where breeding has been carried on for
years. And let me shout in his ears that the drivers
are all white. “J.J.C.” has probably not included
Alice Springs in his travels, otherwise he would
know that the smellsome creature is extensively bred
in that district. Incidentally, all owners agree that
the white man treats the camel better than Gunny
Bagh.
* * *
“Vigilans” : Re camel-raising and Afghans’
cruelty to these animals (B. 12/11/’!4). Camels
or, rather, dromedaries, are used extensively in Wes-
tralia from F.ucla to Rsperance, on the south coast,
and from Israelite Bay to lialgoorlie; the driving
being done by white men. An Afghan is rarely seen
on these tracks. Squatters, carters and ’roo shooters
all use the untidy Dreadnought of the desert. The
sights from Eucla to Israelite Bay are strange ones.
It is common to see a gin perched on the top of a
dromedary, with the goods and chattels, while the
rabbit-trapper rides in front on a bike. 1 here aie
no camel ranches, but the Grahams, of Lyres Sand
Patch, used to breed the beast , with the hump, and
perhaps do now. There was always a good market,
running from £3O to £5O. The Asiatics are horribly
cruel to camels. In North Queensland I have often
seen greenhide sewn over sores, as mentioned .by
“J.J.C.”; and I have known sores to be cauterised
with red-hot irons before the greenhide has been sewn
over them. But the vitality of the camel is marvel-
lous. While riding across the Barkly tableland
(Northern Territory) in 1907 I met a mob of camels
in what is called the Seven Mile Desert, between
Lawn Creek and Alexandria station. It’s not desert;
but that’s another matter. The Afghans had just
stopped on account of a female giving birth to a
calf. She was loaded with two huge packing-cases,
weighing 2001 b. each. They camped there that night,
and next morning packed the old load on the mother
and moved on. The newly-arrived calf was placed
on the back of another animal amongst a lot of
gear. I expressed my astonishment, but the drivers
made light of it. By the way, camels will not sur-
vive long in that country, on account of the absence
of edible trees. Strange to say, they will not eat the
fodder of the plains—the beautiful and nutritious
Mitchell, Flinders and blue grasses. The men above
mentioned were on their way to the overland tele-
graph line, but got no farther than Alexandria
station. They were afraid of the wide, open plains
without bushes or trees. Nearly all the cows had
calves at foot following, and the loads were enor-
mous, as much as half a ton being carried by one
beast. Cruel! For callousness the Afghans take the
entire bun output.
“Lagani-Namo”: At Mafulu (Papua) the
youths wear huge head-dresses when they dance on
moonlit nights. The framework is of bamboo and
cane, decorated all over with the body-feathers of
gorgeous parrots and surrounded and surmounted by
magnificent plumes of the Raggiana Paradise-bird.
These lids stand sometimes 10ft. above the pot that
wears them. Two strong cane stays come down the
pot's back extending nearly to the waist, where they
are securely strapped. Sometimes a string attached
to the top of the headgear is held by another native
to control the structure whilst the dancer cavorts.
In addition to this, the boys encircle their faces with
long, black cassowary feathers. The dances are
THE GREATEST OE THEM ALL.
General Winter assumes command in
Eastern Europe.
usually pantomimic, re-enacting fights or hunt-
ing episodes. There are also “set” dances. The per-
formers, who keep up an incessant tom-tomming,
usually begin a couple of nights before full-moon
and dance for four nights. The show starts just as
the moon peeps into view, and is continued till well
into next day. By daybreak the dancers are almost
demented through chewing betel nut—their eyes are
sunken and they frequently collapse. The marvel is
that people so incorrigibly lazy endure such fatigu-
ing performances.
THE BLESSED ISLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No newspapers reached by that
’Twere joy to dwell in those lone isles
Ringed by a purple haze of sea.
Where only the brown nigger smiles
And all the world is mystery;
Where tufted palms are tall and kind
And taller grey volcanoes frown,
And there is nothing to remind
The soul of wars and woes and town.
The steamer lies in the lagoon
With coral trash beneath her screw ;
Her cordage quivers in the moon
And all the night is misty blue;
She is a harmless kind of craft,
Of rage and wrath she bears no hint,
For up and down, and fore and aft
She carries nothing set in print.
The German guns may smash the world,
Or waste their strength in idle smoke,
A thousand battle-flags unfurled
The autumn rains may smirch and soak,
And large conjecture running rife
May fill our souls with fancies pale,
Rut all our knowledge of the strife
Is garnered from the skipper’s tale.
We have no maps to trace the strife ;
The battle names are strange of sound;
And in the wordy waste of life
The North of France seems spinning round.
We fill our glasses to the brim,
The night grows late, the stars are pale,
And thankfully we drink to him
Between whose whiskers throbs the tale.
Yes, let me dwell in lonely isles,
Ringed with a silver fringe of dream,
Where only the tall nigger smiles
Amid a blue and tropic stream ;
Where, as the cocoanut grows ripe.
The wag of some grey skipper's jaw
May season all the battle tripe
The daily papers serve us raw.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH-
-360=6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH-
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
wearc Born to
9FftR OCNCfITO
Insure in the
1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire, Marine, Capital ..£250,000
Accident, Subscribed... 165,000
Live stock. Paid-up ... 82,500
Branches in every State.
Agents wanted. Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager.
810-SHOWMEN!
THERE S only one BEST Biograph.
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.’’
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd.
Street, Sydney.
We can prove
Send for Cata-
, 393 George
BRISBANE'S LEADING HOTEL
The Gresham
is under new management and has
been made right up to date, having all
the most modern improvements.
The Sewerage System has been in-
stalled on an elaborate scale, which
overcomes Brisbane’s greatest menace.
Proprietor,
T. M. AHERN.
9/QRCOdtW 6*loo bUtltlMgPU* bUlfi6*lQ
45'
iV*
iNSTBuntuT ®;\
TptPL£*-|f\CLOMftO
EMASCULATOR.
tms“ SAFETY"
Emasculator
does away with all
risk of bleeding'.
Postage Free 45/-
My Hints on Castrating"
enable any man used to Stock
to cut with the “Safety”
either Colts, Bulls, Rams, or
Boars.
Other patterns of
Emasculators from
30/- to 60/-
Zoeller’s “ Handy ”
Castrating Knife, 3/6
is a lovelv bit of Steel.
Carl Zoeller,
246 Queen St.,
BRISBANE, Q.
Send for complete
Veterinary Catalog.
' It's FREE
“Outcast”: “Moana’s” remarks about
Niue (B. 13/8/’l4) apply very much to Papua.
Among tribes that do bury their dead (lots of them
hang - them up on trees or lay them out on plat-
forms in the middle of the village for all to see and
smell) a man’s fighting gear, feathers and other valu-
able possessions or cherished belongings are always
placed on the grave or buried with him. But I have
heard boys say that when valuable feathers or stone
clubs are buried the modern Papuan does not hesi-
tate to come and dig them up again, conventionality
having once been satisfied. As to what constitute
valuable possessions opinions will differ. I have seen
on a Kiwai grave such articles as a battered felt hat,
an enamelled plate, a pair of khaki trousers and a
stone club.
* * * *
One of the new Pacific possessions
collected from the Germans is the lovely Savaii, of
the Samoan group, recently occupied by the Maori-
landers. Its circumference runs to 150 miles, and
from the fringed beach it rises to a height of 4000 ft.,
or thereabouts. If it had a press agent he would*
boom its volcanic abilities, but volcanic abilities are
somewhat of a drug on the market, these days. Tre-
mendous lava bursts have occurred for many vears
past, particularly within the last 12 or 14,’ and
something like 100 miles of inland country is buried
under molten rock. But from the water fronts to
the feet of the hills the country is splendidly rich,
voluptuous with native fruit and cocoanut planta-
tions, and populated by a fine race of natives which
has lost little of its abo. characteristics by the
exploitation of “civilisation.” Of the vegetation, hard
timber trees, suitable for boat-building, are the most
valuable.
* * * *
“L.N.”: In an account of a voyage
round the world, published in 1728, I lead this:—
We found Easter Island peopled by a race of
giants. Most of them were well over 12ft. high
and built in proportion. The tallest person on our
ship could have walked upright between any of
their legs, with plenty of room to spare.
In 1729 Admiral Dumont D’Urville visited Easter
Island, and not only bore out the foregoing state-
ments, but made even more interesting discoveries
All of which leads me to think that neither of these
picturesque narrators actually landed ; but that they
passed near enough to discern the gigantic monoliths
in the likeness of men, which are scattered along the
easfynrv-side of the island. If. -that theory- is false,
then I can only speculate on the grog ration.
SAFE AS A HOUSE ,
BROTHER: “When I marry I'll want a wife
who is easily pleased."
SISTER: “Don't worry. That's the kind you'll
gel."
“North Q.”: Re “arrowing” of cane
(B. 22/10/’l4). Someone has been pulling
“Marloo’s” leg. He says: “During wet spells a
disease known as ‘arrowing’ makes its appearance,
due to overproduction of sugar in the stalk.” Let
me put him right. The “arrow” of the cane is
simply the flower. It is cone-shaped, so that, viewed
from almost any point it appears arrow-shaped.
Arrowing occurs when the cane is matured: that is,
when the sugar content is at its highest. Of course
the cane should be cut before it “arrows,” but this
is not always possible, and if the crop has arrowed
generally, it is not advisable to cut it for at least
three months, as during that period the juices
undergo certain chemical changes which reduce the
sugar contents. “Marloo’s” remarks apply' partly
to “shooting,” which is practically a second growth
from each eye of the stall:. This is indeed a serious
thing for the farmer and the miller. But the refiner
is not affected, and the cutter is not concerned, as
he is not paid according to sugar content.
A CASUIST.
BROTHER GUMPER: "Tut l Tut! Dear me! And yon a vegetarian, Brother Tadger."
BROTHER TADGER: “Malt, hops an' s-s-sugar (hie). ’S'all veget (hie) ablest"
“Outcast” : Re the feather money in Santa
Cruz that “Lagani-Namo” mentions. The mountain
tribes of Papua are excellent manufacturers of
feather work, for which they use the red, yellow and
black feathers of a kind of parrakeet. Bird of Para-
dise plumes, also, are used for currency as well as
for decoration among- some of the inlanders, and in
each tribe there are specially-skilled men who act as
hunters. The birds are caught either with quick-
lime or in nets. At the back of lveakaro Bay much
trade goes on with the mountain people in feather
work, and flocks of parrakeets are kept for the
special purpose of providing material. One genius
put forward the theory that these people kept their
parrots to act as sentries. It isn’t altogether
absurd. 1 found something of the same sort once on
the Waria, and again in a back-country village at
Cloudy Bay.
* * *
“Wyangarie”: The green snake men-
tioned by “Joan” (B. 20/11/T4) is not, as she
fancies, an uncommon variety. The northern dis-
tricts of N. S. Wales swarm; with this species, and
the whole eastern coast of Australia has representa-
tives of the same original sin. The beast is as much
at home on the trees as it is on the ground, and as
a swimmer Cecil Healy isn’t in it. “Joan,” I think,
enthuses concerning its length. Say 2ft., and that’U
do. There are other tree-climbing snakes, including
the carpet.
“Sr ”: I enter Lower Longley, on the
Huon-road, southern .Tasmania, as the possessor of
the smallest Commonwealth post office. Dimensions:
sft. 6in. x 3ft. 6in. The office is so crowded that
there is hardly enough room for another penny stamp.
A 10s. national note would bulge the roof, but their
exclusiveness is the crib’s protection.
* * *
“Te Babarantiko” : Brown Brother of the
Pacific Islands still makes and uses his mother-of-pearl
trailing hooks, as no modern hook proves equally
satisfactory. In some groups he improves, too (to
his mind), on the white man’s trout and salmon
hooks. He buys, if the worst comes to the worst, a
strand of steel-wire rope, cuts it into suitable lengths
points one end and bends it into almost a circle.
The native says his invention holds the fish better
Most Eastern and Central Pacific islanders snare
sharks (or, rather, a certain kind of shark), but do
it more as a sport. The universal shark-hunting
method, when it’s a matter of business, is by large
hooks. All South Sea Islanders fish by torchlight
The torch is practically always two dry palm branches
stoppered with green palm leaves at intervals of about
a foot. The fish, principally flying and garfish, do
not, as a rule, make for the canoe (as has been
described), but seem to be momentarily paralysed by
the glare, and are scooped aboard.
“Clinker”: The Ministerial party, having
turned the first sod of the railway, were being enter-
tained at the usual banquet. Squatter Hogan pro-
posed the principal toast. Said he: “Jintlemin,
Oim very plazed to see the Ministers and so many
numbers of Parleymint. There a lot of country ye’ll
see, as yez go troo, an’—an’ that.” The “an’ that”
was the peroration, and I challenge competition.
“Tiaki”: Henare Ilaruru was up before
the beak for being in an advanced state of banquet.
I thought I told you, Henare, that if you came
bofoi e me again I would certainly commit you.
What have you to say for yourself?” asked the
Beak. “Werra,” began Henare, “I terr-a you ora
'pout it. Some pakeha—l toan’ know who liees
name is—he serr-a my missis te rongoa (medicine)
to make-a te ferra so as he won’ rike-a te peer any
any more. Pye-and-pye I take-a te rongoa, an’, py
cripe, I newwa wan’ te pooze ’tall. 1 ko. town te
town, roun’ te pub, an’ I newwa wan’ te one singal
tnnk. Py I te werry preeze ’cos’ I toan’
wan te pooze. I see Butene an’ I terr’im ‘Py
I grad I newwa wan’ te pooze now any more.’
I tak’ him an’ Peta an’ Pohutu an’ Tiki in te pub
an’ ! s’out ’em. T’en te parmaid (he te posker
tart) he s’out, an’ I t’at preeze cos’ I newwa wan’
the proomin’ pooze any more t’at I s’out ora time.
Py cripe, pefore I know where I is I ket te proomin’
trunk. I earn’ herrup it.” His Worship summed
up severely on the folly of celebrating his triumph
m such a manner, and discharged Henare with a
fearful warning. “Py cripe,” said Henare to an
admiring audience, “I tink I pitts him te prurry
kood yarn, or-right. Put what te sort a yarn I koin’
to tell him nex’ time—ta’s what peat me.” I
■suggested an inspiration, and Henare had a pint of
MY STOMACH S HOLIDAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Give your stomach a nice vacation \—Touching
appeal headlined by a patent-medicine advertiser.
I hope my stomach will pack his bag and travel
away for a trip each year;
I d cheerfully go and see him off, and guarantee
not to shed a tear;
For Stomach I toil both day and night, feeding him
bravely with loving fuss;
And if he’d take himself off each .year, it would, be
a change for both of us!
In massive splendor I see him roll, with rug and
kit-bag towards his train,
hile I nurse a fierce and secret hope that he will
never come back again! •
The parting despot I slily speed and wave him gaily
upon his way—-
The Stomachs Union I’d love to see demanding a
Stomachs’ Holiday!
N.S.W.
INDIGESTION BILL.
A New System.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Malcolm mckenzie, 0 f Tar go ,
squatter and police magistrate, was
driving briskly towards town to at-
tend to his magisterial duties, it being court
day, when two disreputable-looking persons
in ragged clothes and scraggy whiskers sud-
denly stepped out of a scrub and bailed him
up. One, standing in the middle of the road,
covered him with a revolver, whilst the other
made impatient signs to the indignant driver
to get down.
Haying obeyed the mandate, with some
forcible remarks suitable to the occasion but
hardiy befitting a magistrate, the dispenser
ot justice was demonstratively enj'oined to
put up his hands. This done, he was relieved
of his money and other valuables; then, by
further extravagant signs, he was com-
manded to stand with his back against a
tree. In this position he was tied from head
to feet with the buggy reins.
During the whole course of the humilia-
ting operation the two highwaymen never
spoke a word except on their lingers. Thev
were dumb, a circumstance which mingled
surprise and interest with the magistrate’s
indignation. In all his forensic experiences
he had never heard of a dumb bushranger
before; and here were two of them carrying
on their unlawful profession in partnership.
While he humbly marvelled at this the
two robbers decamped.
Diving into the scrub, they hurried along
until they came to a little running stream, on
the bank of which two saddled horses were
tied up. Here the dumb pair unostentati-
ously recovered their speech. Here, too, they
underwent a rapid transformation, and pres-
ently two respectably-dressed, clean-shaven
men mounted and rode away in the direction
of the township. When they had gone a mile
they cut across to the road, and then turned
in the direction of Targo.
For awhile they rode in silence, peering in-
tently ahead. On each face there was a half-
expectant, half-anxious expression.
At last, through the growing heat, they
discerned the furious magistrate still lashed
to the tree, at which they were plainly
relieved.
When they rode up to him they looked
astonished.
“Why, he’s bound hand an’ foot, Bob!"
was the leader’s exclamation. “Bless me
soul, who tied yer up?” he asked the victim
in the next breath.
“A pair of scamps,” said Mr. McKenzie,
viciously. “Armed bushrangers,” he added,
heaving at the binding reins.
“Good lor’!” the horseman ejaculated. “I
thought bushrangers was done away with
ages ago.”
“How long have they been gone?” asked
Bob, with the air of a man who was going
to run them down whatever start they had
got.
"Half an hour.”
Bob busily gathered up his reins and looked
at the ground for tracks.
"You attend to the gentleman, Joe,” he
said, moving off. “I’ll see what way them
villains are goin’.”
He tracked them to the scrub, where he
disappeared for 20 minutes or so. Eventually
he returned with the report that the scoun-
drels had crossed the creek, and continued
straight on through the bush on the other
side.
Joe, who was profusely sympathetic, had
just financed the victim with a couple of
bank notes.
Mr. McKenzie shook hands with both, and
thanked them warmly for their good services.
“I must hurry along to town now,” he
said in conclusion. “You two chaps stop at
Targo. I’ll be back some time this after-
noon, and I’ll have something for you.”
He presented them with a cigar each, and
smoking these they rode on in high glee.
“The advantage of this system,” Joe
observed, speaking in a way which suggested
that there had been an argument about the
prudence of it some time earlier, “is that we
put ourselves beyond suspicion, an’ baffle the
police utterly. An’ instead <»’ bein’ hunted
criminals, hidin’ from th’ light o’ day an’
tremblin’ at th’ crack of a stick, we’ll lie
’ospitably received an’ entertained an’ re-
warded by the kind gentleman we robbed.
He’ll give us a fiver apiece at least, besides
loadin' us up with rations.”
“Well push on first thing in th’ mornin’,”
Bob interposed.
He felt he could enjoy the situation better
after some brisk travelling exercise.
Joe nodded contemplatively. “He might
offer us a.job”
“If he does, we don’t want it,” Bob in-
terrupted quickly. “We’re goin’ to a job out
West, thank him, all th’ same.”
They reached Targo in time for lunch;
and before an hour had passed everybody on
the place knew half the story of the morn-
ing’s adventure. Joe was feeling very com-
fortable.
About mid-afternoon the pair were on the
front verandah, and Joe was happily describ-
ing the rescue to Mrs. McKenzie and her
daughter, at their special request, when Mr.
McKenzie arrived home, accompanied by two
gentlemen on horseback.
The two gentlemen were policemen. One
of them immediately arrested Bob for rob-
bery under arms, the other arrested Joe.
There was no simulation in the astonish-
ment of the delinquents at this juncture. For
a space it could also be said that they were
genuinely dumb.
Their blank looks were answered by Mal-
colm McKenzie': —
“When you fellows affect disguises again
don’t forget your identification marks. You
[to Joe] forgot that peculiar black mark on
your left thumb-nail; and you [to Bob]
forgot the little carbuncle on your right
eyelid.”
EDWARD S. SORENSON.


HISTORY REPEATS ITSELF.
THE WEDDING OF THE ADRIATIC.
A picturesque old ceremony by which the Doge once a year married Venice to the sea.
THE WEDDING OF THE TASMAN.
A wholly unpicturesque ceremony by which the Sydney Council marries his city any day to the adjacent waters.


PRACTICAL PRESCRIPTION AGAINST
STOMACH ACIDITY.
BY A SPECIALIST.
“Ning-tenths of all cases of stomach
trouble nowadays,” says a leading specialist,
“are caused by too much acid. In the be-
ginning the stomach itself is not diseased,
but if this acid condition is allowed to con
tinue the acid is very likely to eat into the
stomach walls and produce stomach ulcer or
cancer,. either of which may render a radical
surgical operation necessary, even to pro-
long life. Therefore an ‘acid stomach’ is
really a dangerous condition, and should
be treated seriously. It is utterly useless to
take pepsin and ordinary stomach tablets.
The excess acid must be neutralised by the
administration of an efficient antacid/ F„r
Ihis purpose physicians nearly always re-
commend taking half a teaspoonfi.il of
Usurated magnesia in a little water after
each meal. Large quantities may be used if
necessary, as it is absolutely harmless. But
be sure to get the bisurated magnesia, as
other forms of magnesia have not the same
action in the stomach as the bisurated, and
frequently do more harm than good.”*
boater:
&
05
M
/
fv
as
-/
/ /iS6/e
MV
Your Hat
Should be correct as to .Style, Shape, Weight
and Price. WOODROWS’ HATS fill the
bill and meet all requirements.
When you ask for a WOODROW lIAT
there is a sense of satisfaction in knowing
that you are buying an article which repre-
sents full value, and maintains its wearing
qualities to the end.
YOUR Hatter Stocks WOODROWS’.
NABOB BOOT PASTE.
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES,
LEWIS A WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney. tl
A
EVERY DAY
more people are proving that
LUX
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dir!
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes.
r
\ i,
h< i 11 '"
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
lever brothers
LIMITED. SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Paris Nesbit, K.C., on “Dan” Crawford,
the African missionary humbug, who has got
as far as Adelaide :
Mr. Dan Crawford, at the Commonwealth Club,
thanked God that lie would not meet us again. It
is hard to believe that his thankfulness on this scorn
can exceed that of many of the audience which
patiently endured his shallow, blatant egotism.
There is only one survivor of the first
S. Australian Parliament. This 82-year-old
patriarch, Henry Bull Templar Strange-
ways, is living in Somerset (England), to
which lie retired 43 years ago. He was
the strongest battler for the overland tele-
graph to Port Darwin; and afterwards,
when he was Minister for Lands, lie intro-
duced the then-amazing idea of selling public
lands on long terms. This, the basis of
the present system of selection, is still
“Strangeways Act”—just as the Real Pro-
perty Act. passed by his contemporary, is
Torrens Aft.”
WATTEEUW, Belgium's elegant
Consul-General.
Adelaide University chuckles over the fact
that the S.A. Rhodes scholarship for the
year goes to an “Arts” man for the first
tune in its history; Science and Medicine
have dominated the situation up till now,
allowing Law an occasional look-in. Wil-
liams. the new scholar, is a good all-round
athlete, but best known as a footballer.
Of the latest recruit for the N.S.W.
< 'Ullery:—
1 lie N.S.W. Gallery trustees have done well in getting’
a <!. J. Shannon portrait; for Shannon will probably
be still remembered a century hence. Like Sargent,
1\ lustier, Copley and Benjamin West, he was born in
the United States, and like them he left as earlv
and finally as possible. He is 52, is Ouidaesque in
appealance, and is the fashion as a portrait painter
now that Sargent has refused any more commissions.
He will almost certainly become President of the
Academy when Poynter presently retires. This posi-
tion calls for money, social qualifications, and the
capacity to make a reasonably decent speech. Under
other circumstances, another American, Sargent
would have got the job; but the latter, though
wealthy, is literally dumb when on his feet and
would run miles rather than be forced into such a
situation. Shannon himself is no Lord Rosebery in
this matter. Presiding once at an artists’ dinner on
the opening of the Academy, he said: “Those of von
who are hung may take pride in considering that it
is because you deserve it, and those who are rejected
may aspire to do better next time.”
OUR PATRIO TIC CONGER T
COUSIN JACK CHAIRMAN : “Ladies and
gentlemen, the next hitem on the paaper
ez a song entitled "E’s a braave long
spurt to Upper ary. ”
Australian Ministers are not a long-lived
race, after they take office. The Common-
wealth is less than 14 years old. And among
Hie dead are Lyne, Kingston, Dickson, Fysh,
O'Connor, McLean, Batchelor, Dawson,
McGregor, Frazer, Roberts and Arthur. The
last-named was the most sudden of them all.
lie didn’t even live to take up the duties of
his Department.
Died at Hawthorn, near Melbourne, last:
week, Mrs. Cecelia Hordern, widow of Wil-
liam Hordern, aged 7!). Her husband.
M illiam Hordern, was one of the sons of
the original Anthony, grandfather of the
vigorous young men who run the vast pro-
vider'y nowadays. William, who went to
Melbourne young and always preferred to
live there, was a philanthropist, specialising
in boys’ clubs.
From “The Oldest Inhabitant”:—
A name that appeared in the first number of the
S. M. Herald and in many a number thereafter has
hern cantering through all the courts of the coun-
try. It came up through a suit over the will of
William Redman, a Sydney solicitor who died in
1882, leaving a will 22 years old, a codicil 20 years
old, a wife and a lot of property. What the row
was all about doesn’t matter. All I’m interested
in is the Redmans’ history. They were here before
(Governor Bligh. John of the ilk was chief constable
at the time of Bligh’s deposition, and signed the
address of thanks to the usurper Johnston. lie
appears to have been loyal to the Governor before
the arrest, as his name does not appear in the requi-
sition to Johnston desiring the capture. lie was
active as constable in the service of the interregnum
Governments. On Captain McArthur’s warrant or
without one, he, at the head of a posse of constables,
seized Sir Henry Hayes, of Vaucluse, who was a
friend of Bligh’s, and hurried him off to Coal River
(The Hunter), where he was detained for eight
months. On Macquarie’s arrival Redman was con-
firmed in his appointment as chief constable at
£6O a year, and subsequently he was made keeper
of the gaol. He owned considerable property in
Lower George-street, a little north of The Bulletin
office, It included Redman’s Court, in which was
the registered office of the Herald. The first number
was printed there on May 9, 18.31 : “Edited, printed
and published by W’ard Stephens, Frederick Michael
Stokes, and William McGarvie, sole proprietors,
Redman’s Court, George-street, Sydney.”
Jolm Shand, LL.D.. the learned Scot and
Maoriland Professor, who has just gone over
at Dunedin, was reported dead six years
ago. That time the doctor, then well past
70, had the pleasure of reading his obituary,
notice in various London newspapers. The
really dead man was Jolm Shand, a farmer,
who had been burnt to death on Chatham
Island. The Professor chuckled as he read
that valuable manuscripts on which he had
been engaged for many years had gone up
with hini in flames.
The Rev. R. W. Allen, whose death is
announced from London, at the age of 82,
was a tall sinewy, benevolent patriarch when
he visited Australia with the Imperial troops
who helped to glorify, the Commonwealth
inaugural celebrations. It was on Queen
Victoria’s personal invitation that he took
spiritual charge of the voyaging troops. A good
preacher; clear, forcible and free from cant,
he was heard at his best when in an im-
passioned midnight address in York : street,
Sydney, he welcomed the new century and
the new nation on Federation night.
Tom Harry, just dead in Adelaide, was
an enthusiastic freelance journalist with a
wide range but no deep knowledge. Re-
porting for commissions was his strong suit.
He did a lot of official work, too, in Perth
and on the western goldfields. At one time
lie was Hansard contractor to the S. Aus.
Parliament; at another he ran a weekly
paper of his own. which was altogether too
conservative for Adelaide tastes. After the
Boer war lie was all over S’Africa for the
London Standard; but he got back to his
old home in poor health, and the end has
come at 66.
“Miles”: The dailies mention that Captain
Rex Osborne—son of Hamilton Osborne,
who owned Bangaroo (N.S.W.) —has been
decorated by Joffre. Incidentally they say
Jie is in the 17th Lancers. lie was never
in the 17tli. I lis regiment is the 20th
Hussars. Also he is not a captain but a
colonel. He has been in command of a
cavalry brigade in France for the past two
months, and has done notably good work
there.
J. A. Arthur’s death is ascribed to a
strain received while helping to lift a motor-
car out of a bog during the last election cam-
paign. It woke up a dormant heart-trouble,
which killed the brilliant young lawyer at the
age of 30.
Plain John Darling, miller and wheat-
buyer. who started life on the broad founda-
xi°con AAA father had , lald > Jied worth
±I,bUU,UUU gross, or <1 trifle under an even
million net. But he hadn’t winnowed quite
all of it out of wheat. “Young John” was
chairman of the Broken Hill Prop., and one
or the very few busy commercial cobblers
who made money by not sticking to their
last. He had mining interests all over the
place, and generally managed to get on velvet
somehow.
THE DISTRESSED FEMALE.
Women of the middle class will find the increased
duties on wearing apparel almost prohibitive. The
most vital changes are in connection with blouses,
skirts, costumes and other similar lines.
Statement by one-eyed press.
AUSTRALIA:"Allow me, madam, to present
my card.”
The. Governor of the Falkland Islands,
alongside which the recent naval scrap took
place, is William Lamond Allardyce, who
formerly did good work as Native Commis-
si 0 ? 61, i n Fiji. Ilis wife is a daughter of
Molesworth Greene, of Bacchus Marsh
(Vic.).
Lieut. E. W. Chapman, of- the Dragoon
Guards, who was killed in France the other
day. was a son of one of the shepherd kings
of Canterbury (M.L.). He was horn in
1887, went to Fogland in 1909 and got a
commission in 1910. Two years ago he and
his regiment were ordered to Egypt, and
from there lie was recalled last month and
flung into the storm in northern France. Ih-
leaves a young widow.
DAN LEVY,
M.L.A., of Dar,
linginrst, N.S.W.
No man named Joseph was ever com-
pletely popular, and when a man is named
Joseph Bible who can wonder that lie is
committed for trial? It happened at Pad-
dington (Sydney) last week, and the charge
was setting fire to a mother-in-law —at
least, to a mother-in-law’s premises.
R- G. Kent, whose name was familiar on
Victorian railway notices as Secretary until
10 years or so back, reached the dead-end
last week. Of his 7i years lie spent 42 in
the service of the Victorian railways. In
spite of the fact that he was a lay canon, he
was a kindly soul and full of charity.
“Amies”: Scharnhorst and Gneisenau
were eminent German strategists in the
early part of the 19th century. Napoleon
decreed that Prussia should have an army
of only 44,000. Statesmen like Stein and
Hardenberg eluded this by putting through
a fresh lot every year. Napoleon scoffed at
the _ move, but it was the germ of the
National Army system. Gneisenau,
Scharnhorst’s pupil, nearly caused Welling-
ton’s defeat at Waterloo. Blucher was
wounded at Ligny, and Gneisenau took
command. He detested Wellington, and but
for Blucher’s firm insistence lie would not
have hurried the Prussians on to Waterloo.
HOW THEY DIED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They died in reed-bed and in soaking sands,
Flint dirk or spear haft in their sweating hands :
Great, hairy men, short-limbed and long of arm—-
By stunted thicket or by soaring palm,
At here oozing saps the stiffening limbs anoint
From the crushed vine that hides the needle point:
Where strange and struggling flowers grew out of
leaves
And oleanders clumped their deadly sheaves ;
There, like fierce bulls, thev fought and fell and
bled,
While tile young sky leaned, callous, overhead,
And the , pale planets swam in moony space
Watching the Hand go winnowing the Kace....
They died in armor on the bannered field,
They died with bloody axe and dinted shield,
They died with ladies’ favors in their casques,
They died from venomed gloves and poisoned masks,
The Indians’ arrow or the bushman’s knife;
'['hey died for gold or fame, for queen or wife,
To pay a debt, retrieve an old disgrace;
But, most of all, they died to save the Race.
They died in dungeons, foul and cramped and black,
They died on scaffolds and across the rack,
When blackbirds in the greening coppice woke
They died in duels on a rapier stroke.
They died on slippery decks of wooden ships,
A curse or prayer between their bearded lips.
They died by pistol shot; by clogging steel
They died. Vet somehow, never learned to kneel
Beneath a hateful yoke. . . .as now they die
To rid a world of Prussian tyranny!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
THE THREE QUIET GENTLEMEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is a quiet gentleman a-motoring in France
(Oh, don't you hear the honking of a British motor-
car?)—
Like any quiet gentleman that you may meet by
chance,
Who doesn’t wear a uniform, and doesn't sport a
star.
Another quiet gentleman is sitting by his side
(Oh, do you hear the “shuffling feet” to-night in
Gay Paree?) —•
The honking of their motor-ear, when they go for
a ride,
Is louder than the biggest gun that’s made in
Germany.
Another quiet gentleman, who's very like the first
(Oh, don’t you hear the tinkle of the sleigh-bells
on the snow?) —
Is riding out in Russia now to watch the best and
worst.
Oh, hear the bells of Petrograd a-ringing soft and
low—
The Christmas bells of Petrograd, that hail the
birth of Christ ;
The sleigh bells from the opera that hail the birth
of Sin-
While eyes of men are dried in Hell and hearts of
men are iced—
Are louder than the loudest blare that’s blaring
in Berlin.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


m
m
;
Vi £
■*?
m
vm
»»
• v ;p-
Past
\
;■:
*T •
•••■ •
m
%%
ktm
■• •
sm
X
■
■
:
is
: ■ i
ssi
■
BmmrJm i
r '
tsa
■«s
m
wmb
WB.
- **
jO
o
©
A
,<35.
0
$
s
A
II . r *if v V v
*..,,,; le
Si
-
-■Ji-i;
fefl
s«K«i
o>v-
-4S
«a
A GOOD JUDGE WILL USE
CLpTR) pipes
400
pipe Guarant,


IRRIGATION.
Wc carry Large Stocks of
Power-driven Reciprocating
Steam- and
Pumps.
Also Large Stocks of Centrifugal Pumps suitable for Irrigation Work,
Cash or Terms.
SIMPSOIM BROTHERS.
Lawson House,
49 Clarence St., Sydney
BUCYRUS CO. Milwaukee
Steam Shovels, Drag Line Excavators.
5... » t .nti-WIUIAM ADAMS ®, COMPANY LIMITED
i^———— ' yydney , Melbourne, Brisbane,’ Perth.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Union Steamship Co. oe New Zealand:
Added
_ . . to Re-
icAi ’ Dividends. serves. Reserves.
8 P-c. =£48,000 £43,020 £274,024
lonf" o ” ” 48)000 27)227 301,251
1903.. 90,744 8 „ ~ 48,000 42,744 343 995
1904.. 129,928 10 „ ” , 6 9;92§ wsJm
J OO6 -- 06)764 8 » » 48,000 48,764 462,687
1006 -- ,? 4,906 10 ” ” 6 0,000 34,906 497,593
1907 -- 144)324 10 ~ 60,000 84,324 581,917
Transferred to Capital £200,000, leaving 381,917
1908.. 241,334 9 p.c. = 71,667 169,667 551,584
1009-I 009 -- ,?? )0 H 9 ” » 71)667 26,355 577,939
1910 -- 104,832 9 „ „ 71,667 33,165 611,104
1911.. 116,431 9 „ „ 71,667 44,764 655,868
1012 -- 109,946 9 „ „ 71,667 38,279 694,147
Share premiums . . 100,000 794,147
Internal reserves disclosed and
assets written up.
£1,000,000 transferred to capital.
r, ref - Oi'Oi- To Re- Re-
Fronts. 5$ p.c. nary. serves, serves.
1914.. 110,750 55,000 5 p.c.= 50,000 5750 485,136
There is a chasm in that table; and The
Bulletin can’t bridge it. Still, for the
most part the position is plain enough.
Early in 1913 managing-director James
Mills, who had begun the business with two
small canoes, decided that he was old enough
to take things more comfortably; and this
seems to have been regarded as a suitable
time for putting affairs shipshape. Dunedin,
the birthplace and home of the co., is
Scotch, and the Scotchman likes to have a
bit up his sleeve. That was the plan on
which this co. was run for many years. It
steadily accumulated reserves, visible and
otherwise, by writing down assets a little
beyond actual requirements and so on. But
that method has its disadvantages nowadays,
when everybody reads the papers a*d has a
little dangerous knowledge about finance.
A co. may have a capital of £200,000, but
by keeping down its dividends and denying
itself, it may have accumulated reserves of
£300,000; and if it then pays al2 p.c. divi-
dend there is liable to be a howl, though on
capital and reserves combined the dividend
is less than 5 p.c. Very wisely in the inter-
ests of the shareholders it was therefore
decided that new managing-director Holds-
worth should be set going with no such
excessive reserves to inflate his rate of
dividend. The process involved first the
issue of 200,000 £1 shares at a 10s. premium,
and then the issue of 1,000,000 £1 pref.
shares, payment for them being made out
of the various reserves, disclosed and
internal. After the new issue of 200 000
shares there was a total of 1,000,000 ordin-
aries, so the latter got in the new co. one
share of each sort for each ordinary held in
the old co.
What doesn’t transpire is the total of
reserves that remained after the million had
been withdrawn. Hence this paper doesn’t
know what portion of the £485,136 of re-
serves shown in the last line of the table
was actually earned in the past year. The
at present are—Formal reserve,
£150,000; insurance fund, £329,386; unap-
propriated profit, £5750. Probably a fair
amount of the insurance fund was added
ou t of the past year’s surplus revenue; but
we don t know. In theory the management
would put by just enough to cover risks
not covered by outside policies, just as it
would write off precisely the proper amount
to cover depreciation. But in practice it
is plain from the large transfers made to
capital during the past few years that more
than enough has been set aside. The
chances are that the management has made
similar liberal appropriations during the
past year. If not the co. is sailing very close
to the wind. The dividend of £105,000 doesn’t
leave much to come and go cn when the
profit is only £110,750. When the chairman
explained the reconstruction to the share-
holders he told them that “the combined
divs. on pref. and ordinary shares should
certainly not be less than the customary
rice aa/J 10^0 P a4 d”; but a demand for
£105,000 m place of the old £71,667 gives
the new managing director and his staff a
big load to bring into port if the financial
weather is at all bad.
And the weather is bad, and is going to
continue bad. This co. may get a little
advantage from the increased trade with
North America, being heavily interested in
the Vancouver service; but in most direc-
taons the war must have increased exes, and
reduced revenue. Nevertheless, though the
co. may have a hard struggle to maintain
the present dividend, the war will be a good
thing for it in the long run. The Ger-
mans _ were cutting into the Pacific Islands
shipping, and had also just arranged a
Europe-Maoriland service, which would have
made them more serious competitors than
ever. That threatened German invasion,
along with a good many more, is going to
be buried _ deep before very long. Mean-
time, talking of dividends and the chances
of maintaining them at their present level
it is worth noting that on Sept. 30 assets
apart from shipping property, lighters, etc ,
and premises, were valued at £736,702,
wMe haMHti* (apart from debentures,
£128,873) totalled £662,265. Even though
the co. is still engaged on a ship-building
programme, actual scarcity of cash isn’t
therefore likely to stand in the way of main-
taining the ordinaries’ 5 p.c. dividend. The
prefs. 5$ p.c. is cumulative.
Scottish and Australian
Profits
Net onßepur-
Busi- chase of
ness Old De- Written Re-
June ll<J £ ■ p °£ ls- Dividends. on serves.
1902. . 49,329 4929 4 p.c. =2l 578 157 067
1903.. 40,806 1828 4 P „ i1’578 - 178 123
1904.. 45,585 1273 4 „ 21 578 203 403
1906" 48667 1707 ti ” ” 21 ’ 578 85 ’ 991 145 ’’ 709
1907" sf’fol J ” ” 24,275 8,990 1 62 >908
1908" fil 'fsl ?oo - ” ” 26,972 8,750 186,169
1 QOQ * flHd? m a » » 26,972 19,590 201,990
1909 -- 937 6 ” » 32,366 9,928 222,827
191 l" 7f’?sn y ” ” 32,366 22,000 241,550.
1912" 93’38? iI}J l ” ” 37,761 21,500 259,180
lllf O ” ” 43 ,105 14,000 296,819
1913. .107,694 1315 8 „ ~ 43,155 15 700 346 973
1914.. 118.036 1315 8 ” ” 43;i55 15,700 ms 69
Ihis is one of the few Australian banks
wliicli still expose the wounds received in
the smash of ’93. “Profits on repurchase
or old deposits” tell the tale—or tell you
where to look for the tale. By a final scheme
ol rearrangement with the old depositors the
profits are to be cut up this way: (1) To
pay 4 p.c. interest on debenture and pre-
ferred s tpck ; (2) to pay 3 p.c. on deferred
stock; (3) £15,000 to go to a reserve to en-
sure payment of interest on the preferred
stock, etc.; (4) to pay a further l| p.c. on
deferred stock; (5) one-fourth of any
balance available for dividend to be used
in buying up deferred stock. This deferred
stock is at a discount; hence £14,385 set
aside in the previous year has in the past
year bought £15,700 face value. That re-
presents a book-keeping profit of £1315. The
whole £l5, 100, being wiped off the liabili-
ties, has also to be wiped off the other side,
and tins is done by writing down bank
pienuses account. If hank premises are not
overvalued, an internal reserve is thus being
built up. In any case, though the £15,700
disappears from the accounts, the bank is
that much better off each time the transac-
tion takes place.
, 11< r xl table shows the process of
shifting the old debt:—
M96 ' IMO ' !»«■
TprSoWb £983,547 £983,547 £983,547 £983,547
receipts 891,454 Nil Nil Nil
Prer. in sc.
Deferred' 889,419 889,419 889,419 889,419
stock.. 808,758 759,500 718,300 702,600
£3,573,178 £2,632,466 £2,591,266 £2,575,566
Ihe debenture stock (4 p.c.) is only repay-
able at the bank s option, at 5 p.c. premium.
™ho r. lg over 24 millions, carrying
a high rate of interest, makes things very
tough for the management in times when
earnings are slack; on the other hand, the
tact that the money is fixed hard and fast
makes it a good asset when cash and credit
are scarce and dear. This accounts for the
p?ofit^ rC * inary variations shown above in the
Present conditions of course suit the
Li. 8. & A. Its 2 2 millions are in the bag,
at a fixed rate of interest, no matter how
?w r n^ ney r ma ?u get In fact > the dearer
he bettei, for the more the bank is then
t 0 charge without paying any more
*1?. T’ Other things being equal, a bank
winch has stock and debentures of this kind
oilers better security for new depositors than
one without them; for the new deposits
are a first charge on the whole of the assets.
Ihe order in which creditors come in is:
U) the noteholders;. (2) the new de-
positors; (3) the debenture and preferred
stockholders ; (4) the deferred stockholders ;
(o) the shareholders. Apparently the ad-
vantage arising from having this 24 millions
fixed has been recognised, so deposits have
been plentiful of late:—
Notes .. £2/756 Dec. £958
ni? S ’a k?' ‘‘ 516,303 549,546 Inc.,’ 33,243
Deposits at " 2 ’ 591 ’ 266 2 ’ 575 ’ 566 Dec - 15,700
Interest . . 3,457,698 3,816,818 Inc., 359,120
Fiee deposits. . 2,652,790 3,041,110 Inc., 388 320
Liquid assets.. 3,719,467 4,206,486 Inc., 487 019
Advances .. 6,128,056 6,452,765 Inc. 324,709
Premises .. 298,630 300,029 Inc., 1399
Were it not for what is described there as
old debt, depositors would shy off
a bank with so large a liability and
a capital of only £539,437; but so far
as securing the other creditors are con-
tniroe<itilthei old as before explained,
takes the place of share capital. Still it is
the share capital that has to go hungry if
there isn t enough either of interest or of
principal to go round. Certainly to the
shareholder _ belongs ali the surplus profit,
f a , ny i’ U^ as against that must
B et the fact that his capital carries all
the risk as far as it will go. In the circum-
stances, and though the rapidly increasing
reserves are watering down the risk to thf
thls L paper could not yet recommend
the shares to its elderly maiden aunt, how-
ot them to its
TOil * FIMS
mno” r A fits ‘ Dividends. serves serves
19 °£lV fnn%° 59 8 P- c -= £5,000 £20,059 £58,595
1903 27 «f VeS » ranSferred t 0 Ca P ital • • 46,095
£9snnni?i 53 8 , P c \ = 6 .° 00 21,453 67,548
1904 25,000 R e s ® rves tran sferred to Capital.. 42,548
1905 " 9«n«o -,f p,C,= 8,000 28 .579 71,127
1906 ' ' 45 886 9ni ” ” 72,000 14 >°69 85,196
1907 ‘ ' on! ” ” 20,500 25 > 386 110,582
1908 ' ' 20 f » :* 20,500 11,072 121,654
1909 ' ' 37’ofin ” ” 2 0 ’ 50 ° 14,913 136,567
1910 ’ ' 52’500 91 ” ” 16,960 153,527
is 00 ' o isl--li
SlirJSglS
Ihe war may have had something to do with
18 shrunken profit, but it is doubtful. As
a matter of fact, there are probably few
well-managed insurance cos. which haven’t
made a bit out of war risks thusfar. That
of course, is the outcome of the prompt and
astonishingly effective action taken by
Bntain m securing control of almost all
trade routes. If there had been no war it is
pretty certain that this co. would still have
shown less profits than it had made of late.
-Lne drought, first in Maoriland and then in
Australia, doubtless had the usual effect on
the loss rate. At the same time hundreds of
country people, not having had a good time
in IJI3, decided to carry their own crop,
*t° ck and other risks in 1914; and this had
the effect of making it more difficult to get
business, and consequently pushed up the ex-
pense rate. Still, in the aggregate, more
business was done, as the next table shows:
D T Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate R'ltp
1895.. £61,683 £29,526 £24,433 47.9 p.c. 39.0 p'.c.
J 900,, 95,254 49,101 32,113 51.5 „ 33 7
19°5.. 134,748 60,632 54,911 45.0 „ 40 8 ”
1910.. 176,949 66,079 69,661 37.3 „ 39 3 ”
1911.. 193,294 77,03.5 78,220 39.8 „ 40 4
1912.. 200,694 88,193 81,460 43.9 40 5 ”
1913.. 204,542 85,617 84,040 41.8 „ 411 ”
1914.. 210,738 98,951 87,681 46.9 „ 41.6 „
Thus 46.9 p.c. of the premiums went in pay-
ing losses, 41.6 p.c. in paying exes., and 114
p.c. were left over to cover unexpired risks
and for profits. The 114 p.c. isn’t a bad
ngure ; but the co. wouldn’t have been able
to add £125,000 of undivided profits to its
capital in 10 years, increasing it from
£ To.ooo _to £200.000, if the surplus from
underwriting hadn’t usually been a good
deal better than 114 p.c.
rn, th<^Y ar ’. how is Jt bkely to hit this
co.. Ihe Colonial Mutual, like every other
insurance concern, milks its profit from two
cows : (1) Underwriting and (2t interest on
investments. This year’s underwriting pro-
fit isn t going to be good. Fires always are
numerous when times are bad; if they
weren’t there would be no “moral hazard,”
as it is called, in the business. Then the
drought is going to have the same effect as
last year-thousands of hard-up people will
carry their own risks. Employers’ insur-
ance premiums will also be scarcer. The
holding of wool, etc., in the country will do
this and other cos. little good. As a rule the
produce is stored in wholesale quantities, and
a co. which might take £40,000 of cover if
T re in four P ]aces will hold only
±lO,OOO when the four lots are brought
together. It is much the same in connection
with marine lines. As long as the war and
the drought last, or as long as one of them
lasts, this co., like others, isn’t going to
show normal underwriting profits. As to
interest, the Colonial Mutual’s assefs on Sep-
tember 30 were £401,308, of which £145 052
was on fixed deposit, £134,219 in public
securities, £28,668 in freeholds and £36,224
sha £ a ® of other cos.,” unspecified. The
other ±06,000 was on current account and
m agency balances, till money, etc. Nothing
can be said about the “shares in other cos.” ;
but apart from that small line, the co. should
find its interest earnings rather increased
than otherwise as the result of the Potsdam
madness. And there shouldn’t be the loss of
a penn’orth of principal either. Indeed, if
this co. can’t pull through without loss of
capital, then this paper doesn’t know one in
Australia that can expect to.
* * * *
The Kauri Timber Co. :
Net
Written Visible
UUW -c a Dlvidends - Off. Deficit.
iqm " £3 0 8 4t 7 n 6 , 4 P-c- = £23,400 £5,927 £176,091
1904 ‘ ‘ ql’qoa a ” ” 23,400 10 ’ 000 171,800
ions " 32,390 4 ” » 23,400 16,000 178,810
1906 ‘ ' f ” ” 23,400 10 ’ 000 189,145
1907 ' ' Mn lo i ” ” 23 ’ 400 172,269
1907 . . 68,062 5 „ „ 29,260 14,500 147,957
. . Reserves,
ions Assets w ttenup)£227 458 79;5Q1
1909 ” 3 P- c -= 4 6,800 2,922 104,681
1910 ' ' o ” ” 46,800 9 ’ 360 114,188
1911 ‘ ‘ 8 ” ” 46,800 8,852 113,098
1919 ■ ‘ tlAl n ” ” 46,800 7,694 126,755
jnJo • ’ 86,562 9 » » 62,650 14,904 145,763
1913 .. 87,156 9 ~ „ 52,650 25,726 154 543
1914 ... 80,603 8 „ „ 46,800 14,524 173,’822
There is a lot of gamble about this business.
Imagine yourself, for instance, shareholder
in a concern which had for years been pay-
ing only 4 p.c., and which then suddenly dis-
covered that it had £227,458 more than it
was calculating on—nearly 30s. instead of
-os. whereupon it cheerfully started to pay
8 p.c., and has ever since done that or more
than that comfortably. Profits, in a case of
this sort, are, in fact, little more than a
guess. You sell £200,000 worth of timber;
but .you don’t know exactly how much of
that you ought to write off the value of your
forest property. If you valued the forest
property at £600,000 before, and you reckon
it is still worth £590,000, because the trees
that you haven’t cut down have increased in
value during the year,* you have clearly
4innnn° n y° ur capital to the extent of only
£lO,OOO net, and the balance of the £200,000
xealised is therefore available for working
expenses and profit.
Here is some sort of an attempt to show
the co. s progress :
T. 1901 - 1911. 1913. 1914.
Liabilities in-
cluding de-
bentures £327,610 £60,701 £128,958 £146 143
Liquid assets 148,342 225,086 230Y61 218!924
Deficit .. £179,268 H
Surplus .. £164,385 £101,203 £72,781
In this case liquid assets include practically
everything except timber properties, plant
and stock. But The Bulletin frankly
dcesn t think much of the comparison. In
three years it shows that the more or less
too rwf Ur ? 1 u , s has been cut into by about
£9_,000; but that really means nothing
because in the same period over £75,000 has
been put into new timber property and plant
and nearly as much into stock, and these
things are not reckoned among the liquid
assets. Still the comparison has this value •
Look at the figures for 1901 and then at
those for 1911, and you get some idea of the
rapidity with which the co. can pile up more
or less liquid assets in a period when it isn’t
plunging in new timber properties and plant.
Sr * theplunge has been mostly in
Westralia. The kauri forests of Maoriland
BT6, unfortunately, not very many years off
extinction. AH sorts of estimates have been
made of their life, but the best of them put
forward officially don’t run beyond 30 years
This co. is picking up odds and ends, just
like a dredging co., with the purpose of put-
ting off the evil day when the last tree will
be chopped down. To brighten its latter
end, and. possibly to get for itself a new lease
of life, it has lately been spending a good
deal of money in Westralia, some of it on a
new mill, which is to start up after Christ-
mas.
The co. has £25,000 to the credit of its
dividend equalisation reserve ; and this may
come in handy now. For, of course, timber
people are going to suffer—in fact, are suffer-
ing—pretty keenly. Except so far as it is
beimr artificially fed with loan money, the
construction boom is over, and the abnormal
prides rulinsr in the timber trade during the
past few years are not likely to come back
quickly. But this co. has one great advan-
if hi i e . 4t is waitill S for better times
the bulk of its assets are appreciating instead
ot depreciating, as most assets do.
* * * *
Coupon House, Ltd. (Melbourne), which
began with a deficit of £l7B, preliminary
expenses :- J
1905’ Dividends. selves, selves.
'• £4 ?! 2 P.c. = £B5l £391 £772
1906 .. 1511 61 ~ ~ 1005 506 io^q
1907.. 1698 S'" 1237 461 mo
1908 .. 1906 10 1547 359 9008
1909.. i67i io ;; ;; 1547 m im
1910 . . 1852 10 „ ~ 1547 305 2597
1912 " 9080 10 ” ” 558 3085
ml:: 5888. K;; ”1S? HI |g;
1914 .. 2i39 i 6 ;; ;; 200 i fil Jg;
1 hough The Bulletin doesn’t regard the
present as a good time for cutting down divi-
dends if it can be avoided, this co. could
easily have chosen a better one for handing
out a bonus, in view of (1) uncertainties of
war, (2) drought, and (3) the approach of
the time when the co. will have to either pay
oil or renew its £BOOO mortgage. Certainly the
co., which runs a lodging house, isn’t likely
to lose business on account of hard times
to the same extent as the first-class hotel-
it may, in fact, pick up some of the Orien-
tal s customers. But it isn’t safe to rely too
much on that. Mention was made just now
°r a^? rtgage of £BOOO - Tti s expires in
about three years, and the next table will
give an idea of how the co. has been getting
ready to face the bill * g
T . „ 19 °4. 1909. 1912. 1913. 1914
•• £11,7 00 £BB7 ° £8193 £Bl4B £BlO2
Cash, etc. .. 32 73 793 1066 1158
Excess
liabilities £11,762 £8797 £7400 £7082 £6944
?i o^47O d ’ Co “®i< 3 l ei ' i “g that the capital is only
Sioto* btll , the co - has a considerable
moS uLw g /i, yet get square J and though
™t £ k ly taortgage will be renewable,
for trouble S 10 pi ' udGnt thing is to prepare
* * *
BrSfnr luTUAL Permanent Land and
building Society (Bendigo, Yi c .) :
Oet Added to Re-
-190’4 Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1905 " 9191 p.c.= £2309 £20,519
1906 ’’ 9597 ” ” 2407 ~ 20,236
1907 ’ ' ” ” 2633 £894 21,130
1908 ’ ' 9579 ” » 2909 238 21,468
1909 " 459 s ” ” 3160 412 2 bBBo
1910 ' ' 9Q07 v- ” ” 3356 1182 23,062
1911 " Hrl li ” ” 3661 246 23 . 398
1912 ' ' 9Qni rt ” ” 3639 130 23 > 438
1913 ’ ' 9?oo ” ” 3908 23,431
1914 ' ' loss a* ” ” i° n 6 o l ~ 22 560
mu ' ' 4986 6 ” ” 4031 ' 955 23,515
Ihe gross profit was the largest for 10 years
and more, while the amount written off the
ca^ tia £ enCy fund 40 cover depreciation of
secuiities was, with one exception, the
the same period. The growth of
the piofit is not hard to explain:—
1900. 1910. 1912. 1913 1014
Depositsaref 52 ’ 064 £54,713 £62 > 086 £65,136 £67,814
other debts 79,063 80,886 83,970 77 488 78 718
Advances 138,838 138,220 153 173 145,452 150 428
Properties 14,519 16,463 16,467 16,467 16 469
oSras,* '’lff 7 ', 6 5? ».«« MO!
utnei assets . 318 131 140 125 121
j~-h® capital lias gone on increasing;
besides, the co. had fewer deposits, etc., and
consequently a smaller interest bill to pay
eai d nin h v r fru WaS , more ra oney out in advances
than W 1 ’ p l r . obab y . at a higher rate
four f rulmg during the previous
torn 01 five years. Hence, in one wav
foS an Tb hei '’ the T’ reaf ? e in the gross earn-
“gS; T , /he amounts written off the contin-
funfetPpfar to be actually ascertained
fearful .therefore a year might witness a
5 f a mP m securities, and a barrow-
load of them might be thrown on the
society s hands; yet unless these foreclosed
thus e madP were . actually sold and the losses
wHNon lff laan i fest . nothing at all might be
sta temont ff r that Z eai ’’- 7° this extent the
statement-of profit printed above is mislead-
ing it really means that it isn’t safe to take
“ LlGb notice of the figures for any one year;
nevertheless the table gives a faithful view
ot the proceedings over a run of years.. On
that survey the thing looks like a 6 p.c.
proposition, without any bright hope of much
improvement, and on the other hand without
grave risk for the principal invested. As for
depositors, there are liabilities of £78,718
£72 2SQ T baad , £b42 9; net liabilities
±72,289. Against that there are secured
thJdJSSVfi £1 , 5 2ifLl 0 . r more ttan double
e debts), and £16,469 in freeholds-—mostly
SonlduTi? 8, B . e ? digo depositor who
7 dn b e satisfied with that security would
sot,7 TOTT b f 6 ü b ?, Ut taking old T*i’. Atkin-
son s lOU for half a crown.
* * * *
The Farmers’ Fertilizers Corporation
(Bydne y ) which started in May, 1911, with
£TO C ll 0 £7 ? G4 ’ by goodwill
±SUuU and preliminary expenses £2064:
Bonus
mi .. Pl 7 it ' Dividends. toners! fleit.
Sept., p re f. o rd. —.£7064
1913 " £ IS4Q r P ' C ' ' S P- c - = £ 726 £99 6514
1914 " 1179 £ ” l ” » 9 95 Nil 5960
1914 .. 1173 6 „ 5„ „ 1064 Nil 5851
Once a year The Bulletin wants badly to
say something friendly regarding this co.,
and once a year it finds the words sticking


The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, GERMANY, etc.
New Direct Cable to Auckland from Board’s
Sydney Office , opened December, 1912.
A Week End rate is now available between
Great Britain and Australasia. Rate 9d. per
word, with minimum of 15s. (20 words).
Week End Cable Letters are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain on the following Tuesday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “VIA PACIFIC.’’
Daily.
Ordinary.
3/-
*/-
-/44
2/4
Deferred.
1/6
1/6-
Great Britain ..
Germany
New Zealand ..
Canada
U.S.A . : • •
Argentine, Brazil, 1
Chili and Peru /
West Indies, Central
rates on application. TTr
Cable Forms, Deferred and Week
Regulations may be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
408 Collins Street, Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
.1 MILWARD. Manager in the Pacific,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
1/2
2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 1/4
5/81 2/101 '
America and other
End
Carnegie once said that he could afford to pay a
million dollars for a machine that would cut the
cost of producing steel 10 cents a ton. The surest
way to cut YOUR cost of production is to equip
your plant with economical helpers. The greatest
economic power transmission helper you can have is
“Pioneer” Leather Belting. We will prove that at
our expense. May we make the test for you on your
stiflfest drives? Ask our nearest office. “Pioneer”
is made only by J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
“Pioneer” Works, 117 York Street, Sydney, opp
Q. V. Markets, and sold in Victoria by Geo. Russell,
Pty., Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne; in S. Aus-
tralia by J. McKell, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide;
in Queensland by Queensland Machinery Co., Ltd.,
Brisbane; W. Australia, Horace Summers, Howard
Street, Perth; Broken Hill, Geo. C. Dempster,
Argent Street.*
* * * *
C. A. Parsons & Co. Ltd., Newcastle-on-Tyne, are
now making their geared turbines whereby the
Parsons’ Steam Turbine may be geared to a slow-
running dynamo, pump, etc. Sets up to 4000 k.w.
are already running, and a large geared turbo pump-
ing set is shortly arriving for the Metropolitan Board
of Water Supply and Sewerage, Sydney. High
efficiency is secured and the economy of the high-
speed turbine is still maintained. The Union
steamer Maheno has recently been re-engined and fitted
with geared turbines, and numerous other boats are
now running. Sole agents. William Adams and Com-
pany Limited, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and
Perth.*
* * * *
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem ; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“the Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are
the sole representatives for them in the Common-
wealth, and will be glad to forward particulars.* [1
* * * *
Extract from The Review, London, sth December,
1913: —“Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society,
Limited.—The progress of the Society is clearly
demonstrated in figures. Though it cannot be
considered an old company, in comparison with
many of its competitors—it was instituted in
1873 —the amount of business secured, and the
resources built up, proves that those who have
served the company have done their duty most faith-
fully and well.”* # [5
PIONEER WOOD PIPE overcomes all difficulties
of laying. There are no lead joints to run up, the
pipes merely being bumped together, wood to wood,
and making a perfectly watertight junction. Catalogue
from The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., contractors
to all State Governments, 57 York Street, Sydney
(Head Office).*
* # * *
The unparalleled success of the “Hornsby” Suction
Gas Plant is amply demonstrated by the large num-
ber of country towns using this power for generating
their Electric Light. To date there are 60 towns in
New South Wales and Victoria lighted by their
plants. Thoughtful up-to-date users of power should
certainly obtain full particulars from R. Hornsby &
Sons Ltd., of Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.* [4
* * * *
J. Malcolm Newman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
In addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast Iron Pipes, Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Pro-
prietary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.*
“Robey’s” latest steam combination —Self-Con-
tained Superheated Compound Engine and Boiler—
powers from 30 to 400 b.h.p. Not built to sell,
built to last. Represented by Arthur Leplastrier &
Co. Head Office, Sydney.*
* * *
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boileis, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.*
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to 11. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain; weight; pocket transits; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
in its throat. Still the friendly word comes
a little further up this year than it Has
done before. The original idea was first-
rate: A. H. Hasell, an importer of super-
phosphates and other manures, asked .
money to establish a factory in Australia,
and though there were super, lactones
already there was plenty of room tor an-
other. But, unfortunately, the terms were so
lopsided that the public didn’t come m to
any great extent; a poor little £20,74J is
all the capital there is in the business, and
£5OOO of that is represented by free shares
issued to the vendor, who apparently had
nothing much to give in return except a busi-
ness connection. And for the business con-
nection he wanted to be paid as he went
along, seeing that he was to get about
p.c. commission on all sales, plus £5OO
salary. It is doubtful whether he ever has
exacted his full pound of flesh; and, if so,
it would seem to be good business, inasmuch
as more capital is badly needed, to consider
whether he shouldn’t voluntarily and for-
mally modify the terms. There is plenty of
precedent—Toohey’s, Ltd., supplies one in-
stance. The co. could make very good use
of £lOO,OOO. Some of it would go in the new
plant which is to be put up near the Clyde
Engineering Works, just outside Sydney;
the rest in supplying farmers with fertiliser
on February bills. There is so much of this
done that the co. which can’t do it must pass
a heap of good business. But on its present
capital the co. has no hope either of providing
itself with works of any real consequence or
of financing customers’ manure require-
ments ; and to get in more money on the pre-
sent basis must be a slow and tedious pro-
cess. Hence the wisdom of altering the
basis. On August 31 the co. owed £6156;
and the tangible assets consisted of book
debts, £8304; stock. £8840; cash, site for the
new works, and trifles, £4935.
* * * *
The Tongkah Harbor Tin Dredging
Co., property in Siam, office in Tasmania,
shares held throughout the Commonwealth :
Divs. and Written
Sept., Profits. Tax. Off. Deficit.
1907 .. ■ — £3,278
1908 . . £B3O Nil Nil 2,448
Reserves.
Premiums on new shares, £2765 307
1909 .. 11,383 £7,687 Nil 4,003
1910 .. 21,629 Nil £3954 21,678
1911 . . 62,776 23,062 3743 57,649
1912 . . 87,217 84,562 6851 53,453
1913 . . 88,486 61,600 6962 73,477
1914 .. 40,577 63,812 6009 54,233
On that showing the co., though it
dropped the July quarterly dividend by one-
half, had still to eat up £19,244 of reserves
during the year. The real position was,
however, a trifle better than it looks on
those figures. "In the first place the co.
paid £7OOO to the Siamese Government
during the year. Originally, when he got
the concession, Capt. Miles, of Tasmania,
undertook to scoop out a channel through
the shallow Tongkah Harbor and make a
hole big enough for a dock at the shore end.
This might easily have proved a Sisyphean
job, and it was the principal reason why
early Sydney examiners felt cold about
Tongkah. But the Siamese Government
evidently wasn’t breaking its heart to get
a channel and dock, and later on agreed to
accept instead £35,000 in money. So far
£31,500 has been paid, and only £3500
remains outstanding. Last year £7OOO was
handed over. This, like similar amounts
in previous years, has been included with
working expenses. In the current year the
co. will, by comparison, have £3500 more
to divide, and thereafter £7OOO more. For
the rest the co. has been struck by (1) a
poorer tin-market, especially during the war
months; (2) much lost time, partly the
result of the foundering of one of the five
dredges; and (3) unusual bills for over-
haul.
As to the metal market, the co. has had
tremendous luck, on the whole. When it
started in earnest in 1908-9 it realised £BO
for its oxide. Next year the value went
up to £BB 145.; there was then a steady rise
till, in 1911-12, £llO 16s. Id. was got and
in 1912-13, £llB 7s. Id. Then the market
slackened and last year the average realised
was down to £95 19s. 2d. Sales made
from the beginning of September to the
beginning of the present month were at the
still further reduced price of £BO 17s. lOd.
When the London market is at £139 for
metallic tin this co.’s oxide is worth £B5
after paying Government royalty and real-
isation charges. It is reckoned that so long
as the co. can get £B5 for 60 tons of oxide
a month it can pay all exes.; all over that,
either in production or price, is profit. As
to market probabilities, it can only be said
that there is wilder gambling in tin than
in any other of the base metals. At Sept.,
1912, metallic tin was £229 a ton. Now,
after going down to about £l2O, it is hover-
ing around £145. But never once for over
40 years was it above £l4O prior to 1905.
It was much oftener well under £9O. So
recently as 1896 the average for the 12
months was £59 Bs. lid. The high prices of
the last few years have thus been most
exceptional. Whether the statistical posi-
tion warrants the big figures is very doubtful.
As said just now, it is reckoned that the
co. can pay its way if it turns out 60 tons
of tin oxide a month and sells it for £B5
(=£l39 for metallic tin). The output last
year was 1126 tons =94 tons nearly per
month. In the previous year the average
was 111 J tons. The place of the foundered
dredge will be taken by one which has just
been delivered from Europe; so, if no bad
accidents hanpen, the current year’s yield
should be well on towards 100 tons a month ;
and even at £B5 per ton a production of 40
tons in excess of what is required to pay
exes, will give £40,800 a year profit, or some-
thing over ss. per share. Last year 7s. per
share was paid (= 35 p.c.). But all these
figures depend largely on the value of the
dirt. Last year rather unexpectedly
showed a distinct improvement: —
Average Value.
Sept., 1909 .. 1.501 b. per cub. yard.
Sept., 1910 .. 1.14 „ „
Sept., 1912 . . .98 „ „
Sept., 1913 . . .90 „ „
Sept., 1914 .. 1.15 „ „ „
How much there is of this, or how much
there is of any payable dirt, nobody knows,
because the 5000-odd acres of harbor bottom
have been only pecked at here and there and
never systematically sampled. So far the
work has been done on a blunt, wedge-
shaped block, the base of it in-shore. In
1912-13 the wedge was pushed out further.
In the past year it has been only broadened.
It isn’t conclusive, certainly, but, looking
at the average values got in 1912-13, it is
possible that the farther the co. gets from
the shore the poorer the stuff in general is.
Anvway, No. 4 dredge, working in the
farthest-out point, averaged under 0.621 b.
for the first half of that year.
* * * *
Attorney-General Hughes put into a
widely-published statement last week the
facts which have been dropped in here dur-
ing the past four months regarding the
extent of the German control of the metal
business. It is, however, only the German
control of the zinc (spelter) business which
very seriously affects Australia. Copper is
as easily smelted and refined here as any-
where, and the metallurgical practice is as
good. As a matter of fact, some of the best
copper in the world for electrical purposes
is produced at Port Kembla (N.S.W.),
where the Mount Morgan and Mount Lyell
output goes, and Germany has taken the lot
or thereabouts. If it had gone to Britain
in the first place it would almost certainly
have gone to Germany in the second place,
because freetrade Britain is nowhere in the
electrical industries. Tin, too, Australia
can and does smelt as well and just about
as cheaply as Europe. Indeed, most Aus-
tralian tin ore that isn’t smelted in Aus-
tralia goes not to Europe but to Singapore.
In lead-smelting we can hold our own pretty
well with Europe. There have really been
only two competitors for Australian lead
ore and concentrates —Australia and Ger-
many. Britain has been right out of the
race for years past.
But we have been able so far to do nothing
with our spelter (zinc) ; and it is out of
this metal that Broken Hill cos. have been
making most of their profits during the last
few years. An attempt was made by the
Sulphide Corporation to establish zinc
works at Newcastle (N.S.W.). It was a
failure. Then the co., of which the patriotic
Kintore is chairman, made an .effort to
establish the industry in England, at Seaton
Carew. It promoted (this was about seven
years ago) a co. to do the zinc-smelting,
guaranteeing it 5 p.c. interest; and that
interest has been a charge on the Sulphide
Corporation’s profits ever since. The
attempt to establish zinc works has, in fact,
been scarcely less of a failure in England
than it was in Australia. Meantime the
Broken Hill Prop, has built zinc furnaces
at Port Pirie (S.A.), but it hasn’t met with
enough success to justify it in building them
of any great size. What the community
needs is a plain statement, based on official
inquiry, as to the causes of the failure.
Statistician Knibbs, if given a Commission,
could supply it quite well.
A minor trouble is that the great bulk of
the Australian output of zinc material is
tied up until 1919 or 1920, contracts having
been made with Germans and with German-
controlled Belgian works for that period.
The Courts so far say that these contracts
are merely suspended, and in that case
delivery will have to be resumed after the
war. Where, then, would Australian or
English works get their raw material, when
the war was ended, suppose such works were
established? The only way out appears to
be to pass a law absolutely cancelling all
such contracts.
* * * *
The Broken Hill Prop, has had one bit
of luck —it has found a greedy market for
its blue powder (zinc dust) in the United
States. That country produces and uses
more spelter than any other in the world;
but zinc dust is collected at a considerable
cost when wages are high, so the Yankee
imports most of his dust or blue powder
from Europe, and the European production
is frozen up for the time being.
* * * »
Lloyd copper, Burraga (N.S.W.), has
been granted six months’ exemption.
Between 1900 and 1908 this mine produced
£760,000 worth of copper. Then difficul-
ties looked in, and £42,000 was raised under
a reconstruction scheme in 1912, and the
mine fought for its life with the help of
the Mineral Separation process. Had
William behaved himself it might have
pulled through. As it is, there is no hope
for it unless the copper market continues
to canter briskly upwards.
* * * *
“Oof Bird”: Great Fingall (W.A.) is
being gradually extricated from the awful
mess that past bungles got it into, but other
calamities loom ahead. Stoping on the
shrinkage system brought about a general
collapse of the workings and buried for ever
probably a hundred thousand or more tons
of ore, "and the sinking of the internal shaft
below No. 13 level seems to have been a big
and expensive blunder. Having straightened
things up a bit the co. may do better for a
while, but the mine is a wreck, and its
whole future is menaced by the fact that
the shoot which is good in the bottom is
showing a tendency to taper at depth.
Westralia’s gold output is again back-
sliding. When 1913 showed an increase of
32,0000 z. over the previous year, local optim-
ists whooped and the Mines Minister went
around the country claiming much credit.
This year’s total will probably be about
70,0000 z. less than last and 40,0000 z. short
of the year before that. Further, it will be
the lowest 12 months’ aggregate for good-
ness knows how long. Boomsters are at pre-
sent undecided what to do in the circum-
stances, but probably speeches will be deliv-
ered in Parliament about the fields only
requiring to be further tickled with the
pick to yield richer golden harvests than
ever, and letters will be written to the
papers on the urgent necessity for assisting
the prospector. The real facts are that the
biggest mines are getting poorer, and none of
the same size are being found now. Except-
ing the Bullfinch and Edna May, nothing
worth calling a big mine has been discov-
ered during the past five years.
Hs * * *
Kalgurli (W.A.) is preparing for the
end. Hands are being shortened, and where
two men used to look on and watch others
work, one is lucky now to get a job.
Although the future of the mine is hopeless
at depth, there is a good prospect of dis-
coveries in the upper levels. Death will
therefore be lingering, not sudden.
* * * *
Ivanhoe (W.A.) is putting a borehole out
east from the main shaft at 3170 ft. to see
how things are at that point. Dr. Maclaren
estimated some time ago, after giving the
pronerty a geological overhaul, that the por-
phyry which impoverished the lode would
pass away at a vertical depth of about
3400 ft. As a sort of a feeler the co. subse-
quently put a borehole out at a depressed
angle from the 2870 ft. level, and proved the
lode to be completely in the toils of the
porphyry at 3028 ft. Nevertheless, there are
things suggesting that the porphyry narrows
as it goes down, and the lode may become
free of it at a less depth than Dr. Maclaren
indicated.
* * * *
United Gleeson’s, Jamieson (Vic.), is
under the experienced eye of 11. M. Fiedler.
Not that there ever has been much for an
experienced eye to do in connection with
Gleeson’s except to check up the dwindling
call list. The directors to jolly up things
went to the mine, and their up-to-date
opinion is that “it has good prospects.”
They allege that “being a gold mine there
would be no difficulty in disposing of the
Gleeson output”—which is true, just as you
can always dispose of a post-hole. Mean-
time they will let parts of the mine on
tribute, and if that doesn’t pan out
satisfactorily an effort will be made “to
systematically open out” the property. To
help matters along shareholders are asked
to buy the 15,000 shares lying in the office
desk. One C. T. Von der Luft gives things
a lift by reporting the Gleeson’s to be one
of the most promising quartz mines in
Victoria. He has the horse-sense to hammer
into the heads of the Board that even if
the mine be filled with tributors, the co.
must still open up bottom levels.
* * * *
Hard luck has been the recent lot of
William Tell, Daylesford '(Vic.). At No. 4
level north and south on the eastern lode,
indications of late would almost choke off a.
Chinaman. So a hunt is going on at No. 2
on the main lode, where enough gold shows
to tantalise but not to pay. What Plain
wants is to get another level opened up
below No. 4on the eastern reef. Overhead
£12,000 of gold was picked out, and on
that he builds his faith that another shoot
will show up. Everybody hopes so; but a
lot of mining folk haven’t much faith to
back up their hope.
* * * *
Bowes Kelly, at the Lyell meeting, men-
tioned that the saving from the just-finished
Lake Margaret power scheme will be from
£35,000 to £40,000 a year. As the smelter
handles 350,000 tons of ore in that time, the
economy can be set down at 2s. per ton;
and on a 2 p.c. basis this works out at £5
per ton of copper.
* * * *
Mount Bischoff (Tas.) shares have got
back past £24 10s. The recovery is due to a
find of alluvial tin at the North Valley
(Waratah). The patch is described as being
25ft. thick, 200yds. long and 150yds. wide =
(sav) 250,000 cub. yds. Values are high,
so the little lot will come in handy to sweeten
the financial position. Bischoff (Tas.), Irvine-
bank (Q.) and Kelly’s works (N.S.W.)
all take ore and concentrates from the
public and turn out high-grade metallic tin.
Still this doesn’t prevent ore shipments to
the Straits, mostly on the part of people who
regard all ore-buyers as thieves, and forget
the good advice that it is better to trust the
thief you know than the thief you don’t
know. In most cases the local thief is
really no thief at all, but a perfectly honest
trader, whose misfortune it is to have to
tell mining optimists that their 20 p.c. ore
is really worth only 15 p.c.*
A Charters Towers syndicate has taken an
option over the prospecting area at Mount
Coolon, which is on Police Creek, a tributary
of the Suttor River; and the Suttor junc-
tions with the Burdekin above the falls.
Assistant-geologist Cameron and others think
rather well of this new field, which contains
some well-defined reefs opened to a depth of
70ft. Prospects just below the gossan are
particularly encouraging. The place is
described as 92 miles from Ravenswood, and
can’t be far from the old Mount Wyatt gold-
field.
* * * *
Brilliant Extended, Charters Towers, re-
ports a profit for the month of £1291, which
is a refreshing change. Crushings have been
poor recently, and the half-year’s return of
£20,308 from 10,055 tons failed to cover
mining and milling costs, which total
nearly 41s. per ton. Cyaniding costs 4s.
41d., against an extraction of 12s. Id.; so
there is a fair profit from tailings and
slimes. In six months S4OO tons of these
residues were treated for £4949 at a cost of
£1839, leaving a profit of over £3OOO. Still,
counting all in, the half-yearly accounts
show a gross profit of only £2SSO. No divi-
dend has been declared, although the co.
isn’t hard up. On November 10 there was
£15,484 in cash, £6305 in stores and fuel,
and £2532 due on concentrates, making a
total surplus of £24,321. There are 250,000
shares, and the market seems rather down-
hearted at Is. for contributing and 2s. for
paid ups.
sS * * *
Mount Cuthbert (Q.) 7 per cents have
been sold at £B5 recently. The right to
convert these debentures into shares has been
extended to June 27. If the London
Exchange opens early next year there will
probably be a flutter in the stock on the
strength of reported glittering mine develop-
ments.
The lusty Miles infant, the Deebook, pays
its first dividend (Is.) on Jan. 30. When
last heard from the co. was banking up its
tin at Singapore or thereabouts, waiting for
the tin-buyers to mention a more reasonable
price. Apparently they have mentioned it.
In Australia buyers of ore and concentrates
are also operating again, and the market is
distinctly stronger.
u, » *- *


aid* Jir(idiirt«nfc
HEERING®
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
PELL9SSON
Cognac Brandy.
TEN YEARS OLD.
WENTWORTH HOTEL,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
The Most Luxurious and Comfortable
Hotel in the Southern Hemisphere..
Elegantly appointed, with prompt, efficient
service and elaborate cuisine, this palatial
and perfectly-conducted modern hotel satisfac-
torily meets the most exacting demands of
the travelling public.
SPECIAL TERMS.
Until further notice, JO/6 per day and
from £3/3/. weekly.
Carden Cafe, where luncheons or dinners are
served Table d'hote or a la carte. Orchestra
during evening.
Booklet on request.
WENTWORTH HOTEL,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Caps
The
Lot
n
r-K V/?
7*V S')/:
rM
ill®*!
m
Buchanan's
m
m
m
m
WHISKY
** ■ ,
ln^7<7->. T>o
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
. Sydney, December 14, 1014.
My Dear Arini, —
Ii the trouble simmers down in France and
Belgium during the winter perhaps the enter-
prising Cook firm will arrange tourist trips
to the war. Already we read of Mrs. High-
flyer and the Duchess of Bacon “paying a.
visit’ to various outskirts of the upheaval
and returning to London "greatly impressed”
with what they saw. The good advertiser is,
of course, rushing the poor old embittered
r rout. The Duchess of Sutherland, who
married Major Fitzgerald, of the well-known
Melbourne brewery family, has dropped upon
the Inky Way a volume describing her own
work with the Bed Cross ! Shades of Flor-
ence Nightingale ! Will these modern busy-
bodies never take one bar rest?
Numbers of Australian artists in London
ml in the great slump by throwing out their
chests in the l nited Arts Hide Corps. George
Coates, A\ ill Dyson, Charlie Bryant, Full-
wood and .1. Quinn are vigorously practising
goose-step for future use. The Royal Acad-
emy is their headquarters
After spending a few days in the Yanco
irrigation area I am convinced that there is
plenty of room for Woman on the land, par-
ticularly when the land is nice and comfort-
ably moist'. The Women’s Horticultural
League, though it necessarily suffers from a
chill in its finances, while the enemy is
whooping over Europe, might, later on,‘look
into this matter. When Miss Brace, the
horticultural Englishwoman who knew what
she was talking about, inquired about
Yanco, she must have picked up a hatful of
wrong information. The weak point about
it, she was told, was that it was “so far
lrom Sydney markets.” The old ironclad
notion that the population of N. S. Wales
should hang round one city dies hard. Yanco
has a market on the spot. Its factories will
be able to absorb practically everything the
settler grows.
In the city we forget a lot of things, and
even disremember, as they say in the Kin-
dergarten, the stars in the sky. - In the light,
dry air of the irrigation area the purple
night is powdered with the constellations we
lose in the smoky city atmosphere, and the
Jong canals reflect; their glittering points of
light over miles of water-trimmed farms.
Little Amy Mack (Mrs. Harrison) would
nnd the bird-life in the Yanco area a fasein-
ating subject for her willy-wagtail yarns.
The. dry season has driven the feathers in
myriads to the canal country. From the
hook-beaked ibis which haunts the wet area
to the cheeky, vagrant starling, wings are
plentiful. Grand opera, in the open begins
about 4 a.m. There is no charge for early
doors, and everybody has a front seat next
the orchestra.
Mr. Williams, an English settler, is on the
way to have a model farm in the irrigation
area. He, has built a large, airv homestead,
with a verandah big enough to dance on. and
he thoughtfully added a kind of rose-madder
root to go with the scenery, which is young
and handsome. An attractive daughter is
getting her trousseau ready to wed the ostrich
expert, Herbert. The ostrich babv, a queer,
overgrown little ball of fluff, fumbles about
tae Government farm in small clutches just
now. while his haughty parents swagger
across to interview strangers—with a hearty
kick, if possible.
The two Yanco enthusiasts. Minister for
Lands Trefle and Commissioner L. A. B.
Made, are patient and long-suffering in
answering questions, but you’ve got to run
for vour life if you throw as much as a
marble at a grand canal. The veteran
Samuel Met aughey’s homestead, bv the way.
is surrounded by green velvet lawns a>'d
herbage of every kind. Willows line flu l
banks of the first canal in the irrigation area,
and the wool man can chase water-fowl"
across his garden if lie wants early-morning
exercise. Outside the home paddocks a
desert of drv. dusty plains makes th° modern
miracle of waterways in a thirstv land seem
more remarkable. This year’s rainfall (it’s
something well under 10 inches) wants help,
il you are to rear water-hens successfully.
T Before this reaches you the wives of
N.S.W. Cabinet Ministers will have held
an At Home in Macouarie-street to welcome
hack Mrs. Arthur Griffith from India and
Java.
Gaud-Mayor Richards has another 12
months lease of the great gold chain of
office, and of the rabbit-skin, and the splen-
dor and the war-cry and the victors’ crown.
Tt i« a popular reanpointment. on the wind ■
Mr. Mayor looks clean and affable, and does
less damage to the city than the archaic
system under which he rules. And Mrs.
Mayoress rubs along peacefully with hordes
of committee women. So all’s well in the
region of the Town Hall clock.
Lady Nortlicote has offered her Kentish
headquarters, Eastwell Park, as a conval-
escent carat) for Tommy Australia. The
Xorthcotes were very fond of this sunny spot,
and the slender Canadian lady, who took such
a forceful part in local charities, will give
Australian soldiers every inducement to get
well quickly—or else to remain ill a long time
for the sake of the pleasant company.
The Dolls’ Carnival for the Alexandra
Hospital has, after many threats, come and
gone. The weary are not yet at rest,
though, for the air is thick with patriotic
entertainments. Still, the sawdust beauties
have retired from action. Governor Strick-
land and eldest daughter Mary, shadowed by
Help d’Apiee, mounted the Town Hall plat-
form for the usual opening service. Dr,
Clubbe and his wife were in the heated
official throng, who were packed together like
flushed herrings. The Cullen lady and the
Mayoral Richards panted round the crowded
doll farm to inspect the waxy competitors,
and little Mrs. Ethel Turner Curlewis tripped
round in a white muslin frock.
The flower stall at the Dolls’ show was
run by wives of honoraries connected with
one of the big hospitals. It was an eminently
satisfactory stall, where the blooms were
fresh and the saleswomen alert for business.
Mrs. George Sargent had about the most
attractive doll display, from a child’s point
of view. The infant population swarmed
round it like flies round a lioney-jar. It
depicted a dolls’ wedding, and the glassy-
eyed belles were seated before refreshments
that glued the infant nose to the premises.
The Willie Cooper dame had also taken
immense pains to stack a tabP with dolls of
high degree.-
The raffle or art union fiend was a per-
sistent nuisance. It’s a question whether
myriads of enthusiastic brigands armed with
something nobody wants, and a pencil to put
down your name and address, don’t spoil
the sales at the stalls. Certainly on Friday
afternoon the crowd melted like snow before
the flying columns of the Raffle.brigade.
The big- Red Cross meeting in the Town
Hall didn’t pass over in a dead calm. Ad-
vanced Woman appears to have removed her
spectacles and wiped them carefully. Then,
after inspecting the platform, and convinc-
ing herself that her worst fears were real-
ised, she wanted to know why all the
speakers were men. Also, she objected to
the condescending tone of the masculine
approval. Still, for once, the Red Cross
ladies could afford to sit back in silence, for
the poor old welkin has been split with their
( rations during the last four months. It is
time to take the welkin to hospital.
The Northern Territory paper reports
that “a quiet but smart military wedding
was celebrated in Christ Church, Darwin,
on 28th October.” The bride was the charm-
ing little Matron Gertrude Tait. of the
hospital in that tropic town. The groom
is an Englishman named R. J. Lewis, Cap-
tain of the Australian Signal Engineers up
there. Administrator Gilruth handed over
the lady to her young man, who was propped
up at the altar lest he should fall down by
best-man Sevan—Chief Justice of the
Northern Territory. Mrs. Lewis, who used
to be in charge of the Papuan Hospital, and
before that was at Thursday Island, was
mighty popular with Brown Brother when
anguish was upon his brow, and he would
give all his pigs and cocoa-nut trees for a
ministering angel. In her spare time, as I
told you before, she sent good copy to The
Bulletin. She never had any spare time,
but she sent the copy.
After a brave, hard fight, Hugh McCrne,
the Australian artist, is getting a footing
in N York. Some of his black and white
work is now finding a place- in Puck.
Organist Alice Bryant, who has been on
the other side for about IS months, came
back in the Oph.r. The Sydnev woman,
who is usually in charge of the organ in the
Manly Seotchbyterian Church, considers that
our Town Hall instrument has few rivals.
Amongst the famous pipes she played on in
Britain were those of Westminster Abbey.
Artist Ethel Phillips Fox has sent forth
invitations to a French tea on December IS.
\ isitors are assured of a cold welcome if
they fail to comply with the polite request
to “bring a warm garment for a French sol-
dier.” Artists have a very soft spot in their
hearts for the country which has so long-
cherished Art. France was about the first
modern nation to recognise the dignity of
the nude. Its persistent efforts to paint
the human figure as it is. and not as the
dressmakers wish it to be, educated British
artists to bolder ideals, in spite of the
shrieks of Exeter Hall. So this appeal for
a little souvenir for Francois in the trenches
should get a cordial welcome from the brush
and palette brigade.
Did you notice that Dr. Isabel Ormiston,
of Tasmania, had been officially mentioned to
the Belgian Government for’ bravery and
devotion in her efforts for the Red Cross at
Ostend ?
\Y. 8. Percy, whose comic antics used to
make Australian audiences shout with glee,
has been doing regular beats as a special
constable in London. He was attached to
the Bow-street Division. It is interesting
to remember that Napoleon 111. was once
a special constable in London.
Squatter Willie Cope, of Sydney, who
arrived in London about the middle of
October, has done the usual thing.
He offered his services to the war lords.
The services are worth while, for the Aus-
tralian solicitor saw some fighting in the
South African trouble of years ago. It
doesn’t follow that he is a Botha, still he
has a knowledge of'the game.
Above the din of battle rises the small
voice of the amateur ink-slinger asking the
editor questions, frivolous or futile. For in-
stance a correspondent wants the British
Australasian to say “Are Australian
women intellectual?” The writer, who signs
himself "Scotsman.” decides that they are
not. After recovering, I note that he gets
this alleged information at third-hand from
an ex-Australian Governor’s wife. This good
lady, who had evidently only met the two
classes of women that haunt Government
House —Bores and Climbers —said that the
men were easy to entertain. Bemoving her
pince-nez, she flung a small brick at the
Australian woman for being a hard person to
talk to. and generally incapable of appreci-
ating intellectual .efforts. Ex-Governor Mac-
gregor, of Bananaland, tells the English press
a different tale. : But the clever and well-
informed Macgregor got into touch with quite
a different type qf Australian from the aver-
age crowd that falls upon Government House
refreshments with great slaughter.
Talking about the vastness of Sir William
Macgregor’s information, a man who went to
England with him tells me that the ex-
Governor reminded his friends on board
(which meant everybody) of a scientist con-
structing an extinct monster on the strength
of two or three bones. The war bomb burst
soon after the Aberdeen liner left Australia,
and thereafter the ship got only a scrap or
two of intelligence: yet to the wonderfully
well furnished brain of the wee potentate
those scraps were enough, and a more or less
complete story of the whole business was con-
structed. It turned out to be a marvel of
accuracy.
Mrs. Claude Macdonald, who has been
dazzling the Isle of Skye with her ward-
robe, returned to London with hubby a few
weeks ago. The former Melbourne frock-
builder is a line figure of a woman, anyhow,
and she could wear a Tam-o’-Shanter and a
sugar-bag coat and skirt with an Air.
How quaint this jingoism sounds just
now! “Dr. A. 11. Horsfall, of N.S.W,, left
Sydney in February, and will remain
indefinitely in England, where Dr. Horsfall
will devote his efforts to bringing about a
closer union between Great Britain and the
Dominions.” Sounds quite humorous when
the guns are booming !
Henry Harris, the Sydney snorting man
who died in London during October, was
one of the foster-fathers of the Rosehill and,
I think. Kensington Racing Clubs.
To the controversy over the heel-less sock
lor Tommy Australia the artistic and musi-
cal fraternity might contribute something of
value. A • recently-returned Australian says
that, so far as the average artist in London
knows his socks at present, they are habi-
tually without either heels or toes. Still,
better days will come, and the brotherhood is
generally light hearted about its rags. It’s
the suffering millionaire who is really worried
by the financial strain of the war.
The Theatre League is pounding away at
its passionate devotion to the amateur actor,
with his unquenched thirst for the foot-
lights. The Repertory Theatre at the end
oi a fiercely hot day—December 12—went on
the burst when a southerly came bounding,
through the open windows. The League
players had a flurried lOrnin., while ushers
climbed up to catch vagrant blinds that beat
a wild tattoo on the panes. Then all was
peace, and the auusence munched its mouth-
ful of dust in silence. Now the iiews that
the southerly was due had been absolutely
shouted in the papers, and some preparation
might have been made for the creature.
If the N.S.W. Theatre Ltague means to
catch the public ear it will have to avoid
such a typical Brough company’s effort as
Sydney Grundy’s talkative one-act play, “In
Honor Bound.” There was only one live
moment in this curtain-raiser the other
evening. That was, the vision of a large,
healthy-iooKing hanu which dashed into
action behind the stage grate. When the
good husband (whose forte was pulpit ora-
tory) had lectured the penitent wife, he
flung her bouquet to perish in the flames.
There were no flames, so the hand behind
the scenes promptly pulled the vegetation
out of sight. The production of “The
Truants,” by Wilfred Coleby, was a more
successful attempt. This tliree-act play is
full of situations and was fortified by two
realiy clever amateurs in the principal'parts,
l’earl D. Plogsted, as Freda Saveli, and Dr.
Robert Forster, as the harum-scarum Bill
Chetwood, gave a professional air to their
admirable performance. The musical items
ought vo be half-soled and heeled before they
'•vail round another Theatre League enter-
tainment. Proceeds go to the Mayor’s Patri-
otic cashbox. Press-agent Helen Hudson
floated round the show in aesthetic drapery.
Gordon Inglis, wln> used to be a Sydney
pressman, has temporarily left his high stool
iu the Commissioner's Office, London, to go
into camp at Berkhampstead. He has been
shouldering arms with the Inns of Court
officers’ training corps for some time, and
ought to be getting into fine form to meet
the enemy.
A juvenile fancy hop, to give the hungry
folk good things at Christmas time, simmered
gently in a shade temperature of 101 degrees.
As the shade in a city ballroom the other
afternoon was a negligible quantity, on
one side of the building, youngsters in fancy
dress sweltered for the cause. Russia is a
warmly-clad country to dress up to in our
midsummer days, but it is-so popular just
now that the perspiring child will cheerfully
dance in fur drapery. Miss Minnie Hooper’s
ballet had the airiest attire, and it gave a
light-toed fandango under the eye of Miss
Rose Hooper, sister Minnie being in Mel-
bourne. Mrs. J. C. Williamson and Mrs.
A. H. Norman were judges of the fancy togs.
A small, woolly-headed Solomon Islander sat
on the floor like a black graven image beside
her guardians, while the flaxen-headed White
Australian effervesced with energy. Said
guardians. I suppose, are liable to a heavy
penalty if Fuzzy-Wuzzy gets away. Mrs.
Forster, who organised the dance, and Miss
Mackenzie were hon. secretaries.
What a wonderful meeting place the
innumerable battle-front will be before Peace
flaps its wings unter den Linden ! All the
world’s best sporting men will be able to
interchange remarks, in the trenches, and
Spain’s most famous bullfighter, Francisco
Palomares, may hum a bar of the Toreador’s
song before he flings himself on the enemy.
Palomares, who spent part of his boyhood in
England, has offered to face the foe in any
capacity. And he has a heap of capacity.
The privately-run field hospitals, with un-
trained duchesses and countesses in com-
mand, are said by a correspondent to he
wasting pots'of money with no great benefits
to plain Thomas Atkins. A Westralian-
trained nurse writes me from London: “I
had the bad luck to go to the Front with one
of these semi-amateur hospitals under ‘dis-
tinguished ’■'ntronage.’ There were 35 of us.
Only 10 were trained. The others had read
up Red Cross work.... The ‘matron,’ who
had her name nut up in large type as in
charge of Ward 2Z, had iio experience or
knowledge except the little she had picked up
at the usual amateur Red Cross lectures.
However, she left suddenly, and then there
was no one in command. . . .We were dogged
by a couple of motor ladies, an American
and an Italian, who were after copy, but
occasionally petrolled back with a stray
patient and startling tales of shells bursting
over their heads. The head lady—she who
departed silently—took out 250 hot-water
bottles (for 40 beds) and boxes of pie-dish
frills. But never a macintosh sheet for our
poor wounded! Also, she had pot plants in
vase the Belgian Queen should call, and oil-
cloth for the floor. When most of our
patients were sent elsewhere, and our hospi-
tal was over-staffed, I took my leave for Eng-
land, determined never to go out again with a
private concern.... No wonder Kitchener is
supposed to sav a big, big execration when he
hears of the Duchess of Somewhere ‘volun-
teering for the fr0nt.’....1 hope Lady Dud-
ley’s lot are not wasting money as my Per-
sonages did. It’s generally other people’s
-"opev. of course, but the Personage gets the
limelight”
Miss Lindsav Russell, an Australian writer
who married Dr. Scott a while ago, works
on velvet. Ward, Lock and Cos. are said
to give the Victorian woman a retaining fee
of £SOO as advance on her prospective
royalties. Mrs. Scott, who has anew
novel on the linotype, is a great-grand-
daughter of skipper Bob Stonehouse, who
had the mixed pleasure of commanding the
first convict ship that landed undesirables
in Tasmania.
Miss Mary Butler, the Wellington (M.L.)
girl who has been pursuing elocution over
here, goes back to her native breezes on
Christmas Eve.
Mrs. Boult’s drama. “Maron the Ethiop-
ian.” is going to stalk the Theatre Royal
stage on Dec. 17. Proceeds will be handed
over to the Millions Club fund for the pur-
chase of a Christmas helping of good things
for the wives and kiddies of men who have
gone to the war.
Where is the slump? Furnished cottages
by the seaside and on the mountains are
rushed this summer, at prices that make even
house-agents happy. Boats going to Tas-
mania are packed with trippers, and every
summer resort of any consequence in this
State is threatened with a booming season.
Of course the Australian Government has
borrowed £2s,()()(). OflO. and is spreading it out
among the States, which may account for the
boom. I would go to Tasmania myself if
I had even £1,000.000.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


For Your Holiday Tours.
A 2k H.P. BABY TRIUMPH.
WEIGHS
ONLY
1251 b.
£65
STRONG
and
RELIABLE.
M
This sple n d i d
Triumph Model has
been built in re-
sponse to the de-
mand for a light,
runabout Motor-
cycle.
It is strong and
efficient —fitted with
two-stroke engine—
strong front forks
an d spring—two-
speed countershaft
gear, with chain-
oum-belt drive.
Though light in weight, this machine is a good hill climber, and will
stand the strain under all conditions.
Your holiday riding will prove-enjoyable if you select this model, as
there are no valves to get out of order, and only three wearing parts in
the engine.
If you want the maximum of pleasure from your summer touring—get a
Baby Triumph.
Call and see this model in our showrooms.
If you can’t call write for full particulars.
BENNETT 8 BARKELL Ltd.
“THE HOUSE FOR BRITISH GOODS,”
Agents for New Hudson, Triumph, Rudge-Whitworth and Bat Motor Cycles,
J. A.P. Engines, and Manufacturers of B. &. B. Cycles & Motor Cycles,
124-132 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
HARDY BROTHERS LIMITED.
vice-regal
M
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
New Shipments of Goods Just to Hand
Specially Selected for the Christmas Season
TOILET SERVICES AND REQUISITES IN LARGE VARIETY
IN SILVER, IVORY AND EBONY.
HARDY BROS LI?
iViVuiiiuiUillUUnv
Plain Solid Silver Toilet Service,
£l4/10/-
A Large Stock of these Services are on hand. Fuller particulars on application.
Write for Christmas List, sent Post Free.
Enquiries & Orders by Post receive Careful & Prompt Attention.
We would like to call the attention of Queensland readers to
the fact that our Brisbane Branch has just been completely
renovated and enlarged, and is now carrying a much larger
and more comprehensive stock than in the past.
SHOWROOMS:
13 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY; 116-118 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
NELSON’S Iceless INTERIOR
FOUNTAINS draw like a Magnet
eng
cas
%
L,
4
The Soda Fountain Season lias come. It. will soon be at its height. The
merry jingle of the money will be heard from morning till night. Thirsty-
throated wayfarers, hot in search for a quencher, simply cannot resist the
delicious, cool, refreshing Fountain Drinks served from a “NELSON” ICELESS
INTERIOR.
But it must be a “NELSON.” This fact is of the utmost importance. The
public taste has been educated —any drink won’t do. Crowds may come and crowds
may go, but the thing is to keep ’em coming. You’ll find no difficulty to do tliis
if you are fixed up with a “NELSON” ICELESS INTERIOR.
Many of the most successful Fountain-drink suppliers in Australia attribute
the success of their business very largely to this fact. They have proved the
efficiency of the plant, its superior construction and economic advantages over
other kinds. They wouldn’t have the others on their minds —they swear by
“NELSON’S” ICELESS INTERIOR.
DON’T WASTE GOOD MONEY on bad, inferior plants—join the ranks of the
busy, satisfied and successful “ICELESS” owners and install without delay.
DON’T WASTE TIME, because time means big money in this business.
Get interested right away.
Write at once for more details. TO-DAY is the time to ACT. Don’t wait
till the season is half over. Learn all about it NOW!
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.,
219 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at TURBOT BUILDINGS, TURBOT STREET, BRISBANE.
■
.
m
»
S| H>
!S^
-■III
■
Made in Great Britain.
Look for the Red S sign in all our Shop Windows,
General Management for Australasia —Stephen Court, 77-79 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
City Showrooms—l Queen Victoria Markets, 8 673 George St., Haymarket, Sydney.


9
9
im-.
HOLIDAY COMFORT
IS ASSURED IN FARMER’S TWO-PIECE SUITS
PR7.
For Holiday wear Farmer’s Two-piece Suits offer
the certainty of satisfaction. They are perfectly
made and possess all the latest style points that reflect
creditable smartness upon their wearers.
We quote a. few sterling values in Two-piece Suits:
In Fancy Striped Flannels
35/-, 40/-, 45/-, 50/-
In Flannels in Navy, three shades of Grey and Lovat
effects 45/-, 50/-
Fancy Vests to wear with the above from .. 7/6
Note.—When ordering these Suits please quote
Style No. PR7.
We Pay the Carriage.
FARMER’S, Sydney.
PITT, MARKET and GEORGE STREETS,
Famished
Hair Cells
Hair-failure is due to starved roots and cells.
All the legion of hair troubles vanish if you
strike at the root. It is the same in every ill
—you must go right to the heart of the trouble.
What the grey, languishing, dropping hairs
call for
Is an adequate food— a real nutriment.
ROWLAND'S MACASSAR OIL gives an
immediate new vitality to the feeble roots and
the “ feeding ” cells beneath them. It produces
a soft, silky sheen and texture; a full, luxuriant
growth, radiating a true natural hair -health
Softly perfumed with Otto of Roses. Supplied
in Gold Tint for fair hair.
ROWLANDS
Macassar Oil!
is sold by Stores, Chemists, and
ROWLANDS, 67, Hatton Garden,
London.
Avoid cheap imitations with the same
or similar name.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, December 14, 1914.
My Dear Yarrie, —
You heard, I suppose, that Melbourne re-
joiced fittingly over the naval victory of last
week, in contrast to some cities which shall
be nameless. Well, the responsible party
was Melba. She happened to be in town
when the glad news came through, and she
took things in hand with prompt decision.
Leaping into a car (have you ever seen her
leap? It is fierce!) she made first for the
Town Hall. The attitude there was that
the German fleet had to be outed some time,
and that it was hardly worth while making
a demonstration till the entire job had been
accomplished. Melba scorned such lassitude.
She believes in celebrating each time the
wretched Deutschers receive a clip under the
ear. Before she left the Town Hall was a
mass of flags. She then started to beard the
banks. She treated the bank managers like
Worms, my dear, a privilege exclusively of
those who have neither an overdraft nor any
likelihood of ever needing one. The bankers
wilted under her charges of indifferentism,
and hoisted flags right and left. Several
offered to go out and cheer and jump on their
tall hats in the public streets, but she decided
that that was not necessary. The musical
Peterson youth acted as aide-de-camp, and
is likely to be mentioned in despatches for
gallantry.
As a matter of fact Melba’s agitation, once
started, has not known quite where to stop.
The city is going half dippy, seemingly, on
the subject of bunting. Garish flags are out
across Collins-street, like the washing of a
negress particularly addicted to gay-colored
turbans, and the flaming tips of some of the
pennants are making the motors shy.
Governor Stanley unveiled the Cook statue
last week. He had the great navigator read-
up from his birth in England to his grave
in a black man’s interior, and he spoke at
tremendous speed and great length on the
subject. It appears to be the right thing at
these functions for the men to go bareheaded.
The convention was all right for the Gover-
nor, who has a full head of hair, but it was
agony for most of the .other males, the tern-,
perature being Gehenna-like. The brazen
image stands on a huge pedestal on the
reclaimed beach which is walled in from the
Bay. The surroundings are fine green
lawns and tan paths, smoothly covering up
reclamations. The reclaiming process is
going on beyond Cook. The “scrap” from
P’ran’s most recent big fire has been bought
up, and will be used to “fill in” the depres-
sion and make a Collingwood-picnicker’s
holiday-ground at St. Kilda.
Chairman Gibbs, of the Foreshore Com-
mittee, and H. O. Allan, of the Lands De-
partment, were there; also Mr. A. Sten-
house, who was responsible for the func-
tion. He talked long and interestingly on
early history; but Sassiety mopped its
streaming brow and wished he would stop,
so that it might rush for the refreshments.
He did at last, and everyone charged immedi-
ately for the Palais de Danse and tea.
The Beatrice Day Copper Fund swells
steadily as a result of the furious efforts of
Beatrice herself and Mrs. Bonefub. One or
other is always at a leading theatre —beg-
ging coppers from amusement-seekers. Some-
times they ask for copper and get silver,
which is much nicer, I always think, than
asking for bread and getting a brick.
Lady Ulrica Duncombe, whose portrait
by J. J. Shannon has been acquired by N. S.
Wales, is one of three sisters, one of whom
was the late Duchess of Leinster, the most
lovely woman of her time. Lady Ulrica
became engaged to Winnington Ingram, now
Bishop of London, when he was an obscure
rector in gloomy Bethnal Green. They
parted in some mysterious way, and neither
has since married. As a cleric, Ingram’s
line of country is the sporting and dramatic.
He has played a match at tennis against
Theodore Roosevelt, holds open-air services
for the British Army on Salisbury Plain in
peace time, has followed the troops to the
trenches in Flanders, is a good platform
speaker, a good-looking bishop, and a good
sort generally.
The Ricketsons have executed a strategic
retreat to a South Yarra hash-house. Their
Moated Grange at Caulfield yawns emptily,
save for a faithful housekeeper who resolutely
fights the weeds which clog and the moths
which gnaw. With them is young Rudolph
Ricketson. What a name, my dear! He
belongs to the leisured classes. He has no
option, unless he gets himself re-christened
Bill or Samuel, or something like that.
The Augustus Dudgeons are back, furious
with the Kaiser for having interrupted their
European trip. Augustus was on a two-
years’ health tour when the blizzard started
which blew out so many pleasant schemes.
He is related to Agar Wynne. A Dudgeon
half-sister is also back, by the way, after
spending nearly a quarter of a century on
British soil. She is staying with Mrs.
Walter Howard Smith.
Admiral Sturdee is a brother of Colonel
oturdee, of Northcote, now on his way to the
wars with a Red Cross shipment. His son
has gone with the Expeditionaries to Egypt.
Melba, dressed, Undine-like, in green and a
necklace of emeralds, duly opened Streeton’s
show. In order to do it she had to climb
on to a model’s throne, and the operation
showed off her extremely shapely, small feet,
which was all to the good. She referred to
Streeton as “a man who was making new
masterpieces for Australia, when vandals
were tearing down old masterpieces on the
other side of the world.” Streeton turned
his face to the wall and blushed a bright red.
It was not altogether modesty, I fancy. He
was wearing a purple tie, and the color
scheme would have been too awful. Among
those present were Mrs. Gilruth and Mrs.
Baldwin Spencer; also the Forrest dame, the
Donald McKinnons (who bought £lOO worth
of granite boulders against a glorious blue
mountain mist), Mrs. Peterson. Mrs. Bligh
(who has been staying at Coombe Cottage)
and Mrs. Harry Peters. Mrs. George Lem-
priere was hanger-in-chief to Streeton, and
young Peterson carried the ladder. This boy
did a.lot of useful work last week one way
and another.
Melba had a personal interest in the show,
by the way. One picture was labelled
Melba’s Blue Hill,” and others were painted
from Coombe Cottage roof. So she bought
pretty freely. It was a hurried affair, as the
artist has to get back to London.
Mr. McFarren, one of Queensland’s bowls-
emperors, has been in Melbourne. He used
to be a Hussar of some sort, and would have
a dash at the Kaiser with pleasure were he
not debarred by age. However, he has organ-
ised a private regiment of veterans in Queens-
land, the members of which drill ardently,
and go about muttering darkly : “We’ll see
what we’ll see.” This phrase, when employed
by elderly gentlemen, has a very terrifying
effect on the bystanders.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
There were only two applicants for the 1915 Rhodes
Scholarship and E. F. Williams, a son of the archi-
tect, won it. He was born in ’93, and educated at
Kyre College. Also, he won the Tennyson Medal for
Literature and a Government Bursary that took him
on to the University, where he secured the Roby
Fletcher and Andrew Scott prizes, and the David
Murray scholarship. In athletics his chief feats have
been in running.
Henley-on-Torrens put up a record for attendance
on Saturday. Otherwise it was the same old Henley.
Mayoress Simpson and Mrs. G. 11. Dean decided that
the Kookaburra Ladies’ Rowing Club’s boat Blue
Moon was the best-decorated craft on the water. The
second prize went to the Heathpool Ladies’ Rowing
Club. The Galways arrived in time for the pro-
cession—she in a tailored garment of putty-colored
silk, and her daughter and Miss Macaulay in white.
The H. H. Duttons have moved from Anlaby to
Victor Harbor for the summer. Adelaide has seen
little of them since - their return from England in
October, as they went straight up to Anlaby from
the boat.
Thomas Harry, journalist, who died at St. Peters
on Tuesday, did special work in Natal, the Transvaal
and the Orange River Colony for the Standard and
other English papers, and while there he formed a
friendship with de Wet, who was then more inter-
ested in sheep-farming than in fighting.
John Darling left £1,694,620 gross—with about
£700,000 of debts to pay out of it. The balance
goes to relatives, except £lOOO to the South Aus.
Baptist Union, and six separate amounts of £250 to
six charities, one of which is the Adelaide Children’s
Hospital.
Miss Ethel Wright, who went to England about
18 months ago, returns this week. Also Miss Rees
George, who was for years head-mistress of the
Advanced School for Girls.
Dead, at 70, Joseph Jackman, who had in his
time fed many men and women with many things.
His old eating-lfcuse has been glorified into a Grand
CafS of late years; but a grateful public still insists
on calling it plain “Jackman’s.”
A gorgeously-frocked flapper provided the
real turn at a students’ concert lately. She
advanced to the footlights in good order,
and the teacher-accompanist played the pre-
lude and waited with upraised paw for the
opening note. Nothing happened ; the maiden’s
mouth was open, but no sound came from
it. The teacher went crimson and struck
the note again with a finger of iron. The
pupil’s face merely split across, and the
audience stirred and giggled. The teacher
gathered herself together and once more tore
the notes from the piano and fairly handed
them to the struck-dumb. Something
stirred within the nervous girl’s mind, and it
started working again. Bowing right and
left, as if she had just sung with unexampled
brilliancy the Mad Scene from “Lucia,”
“Elizabeth’s Prayer,” the Jewel Song and
“Sing, Sweet Bird,” she back-pedalled to
the curtain, missed the opening, tried to
climb a wreath of stencilled flowers, and was
still at it when somebody appeared and steered
her off. The audience pounded and shrieked,
and presently the embarrassed young
inventor of painless perfdfmances came out
and collected an armful of flowers and
several boxes of sweets. It was agreed
unanimously that she deserved them all.
Mrs. “Banool” Syme and Mrs. “Rocking-
ham” Syme gave their long-postponed chil-
dren’s feast or beano last week. As a
measure of precaution or home-protection,
the Recreation Hall at Ivew was engaged.
The party went through in relays. JThe
tiniest had their crowded hours from 5.30,
and the affair worked up like a cyclone until
there was dancing at 11.30 for the survivors.
A big fancy-dress procession began at six
o’clock, and after that there was a glorified
bun and tea struggle. A picture show fol-
lowed—the idea being to give the bursting
youngsters a chance to let the provender
settle down a little before dancing began.
Motor-cars bore off the younger and frailer
combatants as they fell, the trying work
being accomnlished with infinite skill and
humanitarianism. One Geoffrey Syme
daughter was dressed in quaint Quality-street
flounces and side-curls; another was a lan-
guorous,. silk-trousered Persian; and the
small baby, Jane, wore the skin of a snow
leopard and a bacchante-wreath of vine
leaves. The Herbert Symes contributed a
Grecian maid, a Red Cross nurse and a
Mary-had-a-little-lamb infant to the revels.
At latest advices the participants were doing
as well as could be expected.
Those with a taste for the beautiful or a
liking for a gamble may be interested to
hear of a 200-year collection of rare lace that
is offered privately for sale bv Mrs. Bonefuh
at Fawkner Mansions, South Yarra. The
collection is valued at £2OOO. The owner, it
is said, has been ruined by the war, and needs
the money. The lace flounces, so it is alleged,
have danced at most of the Courts of Europe.
One adorable flounce of Brussels, of a rare
and famous pattern, cost its owner £4O for
mending alone, after a too-strenuous modern
dance. There is Chantilly lace (a whole
dress), yards of Brussels, a lace shawl and
quantities of Limerick of ancient make. A
vandal museum offered money for “snippinsrs”
BEATRICE DAY at her consistent hold-up
of theatre crowds for coppers.
of the precious stuff, as it could not afford
to buy the lot. The owner nearly swooned.
There is some old French Blonde which is a
last survivor of its kind, and a piece of Irish
lace made with instruments that are now
obsolete. The stitches are so microscopic
that the making of them would have
filled several blind institutes had these Social-
istic establishments been in existence in
unenlightened times.
From “Rosna,” in London: —
Dr. Hayward, who was jaunting on this side awhile
ago, fitted his motor out as an ambulance before
returning to Adelaide, and handed it over to the
Reid dame to dispose of. Bales of nighties, shaving
tidies and other decorative trifles, as well as three
such ambulances, have been collected by this lady
for the benefit of the Australian Expeditionary Force
when it arrives.
Contralto (Kate Rooney) Kirkham is rejoicing in
the possession of a small tenor or baritone —I don’t
know which, as the stork only arrived at the end
of October, and William Austin Anthony Kirkham
has not had time to sing for Melba yet. His mother
has been in Britain all the summer, but he will
escort her back to Noo Yark immediately.
The latest Chevalier of the Legion of Honor is
Lieutenant A. T. Hammans, a grandson of the late
John Wagner, one-time owner of Melbourne’s State
Government House. He is scout-officer in the Duke of
Cornwall’s Light Infantry, and was mentioned in
despatches by General French during October. A
brother is in the same regiment.
Tennis champions Norman Brookes and A. F.
Wilding are assisting in the prevalent sport of Ilun-
chasing. The latter was in the Naval Brigade that
covered the retreat from Antwerp; the former is
joining a motor ambulance for service in France.
Society is on the track of the Belgian Nuns.
The baying already sounds in the holy
women’s ears. There is little hope of escape
for them. Mayoress Hennessy called a meet-
ing last week to discuss what shall be done
about them, and Charlotte Hemming (who
speaks so musically) has decided to be secre-
tary of the movement. I viewed this meet-
ing through the open door of the Town Hall
room in which it occurred. The scene was
extraordinary. It looked like a suffragette
fight. Alternatively it reminded me of a
nightmare I once had. Charlotte Hemming
was making elocutionary gestures and the
Mayoress was speaking from the centre of a
terrible hubbub. Women were packed on
top of each other in heaps ; also they bulged
out of the door, and clung to the doorposts,
as though drowning, in their efforts to hear
the words of the oracle. Walter Kirby, who
was there, for some reason, suddenly banged
a hidden table, rolled his eyes and yelled
“Silence !” He then threw an armful of printed
placards into the mob., which rushed the
offering like famished jaguars. I never saw
Kirby again. I expert he was drowned. The
next thing I knew was that an army corps
of females was being bounced, by hands un-
known, down the big council room stairs. I
was among them. My battalion pulled up
dazed on the marble steps below, and listened
to the moans of the wounded and the cries of
the contending armies, above. The fattest
and most-bounced then went away, muttering
in a crazed fashion. For my part, I hired
an armored taxi-cab, mounted with one of
the new 75m.m. Creusot quickfirers and drove
back to headquarters to write the engagement
up. The next effort on behalf of the ill-used
Belgian religieuses will occur at the same
place on December 19.
The Stanleys have been to Gippsland to
instal a Bush Nurse. She has been working
there already for about a year, but her
status was that of an uncrowned sovereign.
Latterly, I believe, the position became in-
tolerable. The people were looking askance
at her. She found it impossible to sleep at
night. And so the Governor transpired, like
some fairy godparent, to put things right.
He would have turned up before but affairs
of State of even greater urgency than this,
prevented him. After a spirited hunt the
nurse was run to earth in the vicinity of a
local sick-bed, retrieved and laid reverently
at the Governor’s feet. Cymbals were then
sounded by one of the A.D.C’s., and she was
formally told that she was where and what
she was. The countryside went wild with
joy at the news, and gave gymkhana sports
and a concert. The natives came out of
their burrows for miles around and joined
in the festivities.
Yes, I mean burrows. As a precaution
against bush-fires, which are almost as
common in those parts as colored socks are
in Collins-street, the inhabitants cut out
tunnels in the hills near their homesteads.
They choose a place with a spring of water
in its innards, store it with food, beer, packs
of cards and other necessaries, and when the
fire comes settle down comfortably till it has
burnt itself out. It is so much more restful
to do this than to tear about pouring water
on the flames and constructing fire-breaks.
Melba, very correctly gowned and hatted,
gave away the prizes at the Presbyterian
Woman’s College. She absorbed a certain
amount of education there in early youth. In
fact, a Sydney sectarian paper once made the
splendid complaint, on learning that Melba
had been motoring on the Sabbath, “Who
would think that our great singer had had
the benefits of a good Presbyterian upbring-
ing?” After the prize-giving was finished
the principal cheered things up by running
through a death-toll. It was mentioned that
artist Withers, director of the Art School for
a dozen years, and G. B. Fentum, Director
of Music, had both gone aloft. And then
the gathering dispersed for the holidays.
Mrs. Charles Ryan died recently. She
was the widow of “Charlie” Ryan, the old-
time stock and station agent. They built a
home at Macedon and grew a famous garden
around it. Colonel Dr. Ryan is a son. He
is senior medical officer of the Australian Ex-
peditionary Force. Mine-manager Cecil
Ryan is another son. A daughter married
Lord Charles Scott, and another daughter is
Mrs. Ellis Rowan.
A good deal of Gloom hung over “Peter’s
Mother,” at the Repertory Theatre, owing to
the absence of anything in the shape of a
Governor. The Denmans nursed this theatre
and made of it a hobby. No Guv’ment
House people have since been able to live
up to them in that respect. Big John For-
rest and his lady were the most conspicuous
Sassiety folk present. Beatrice Day, the
solitary pro. in the play, threw a deep shadow
on the amateurs. The pleasing actress, dis-
guised in a simple, dove-grey frock, and the
stage complexion of sweet 35, waltzed away
with all the limelight in the first act. In the
last she took the curtain in a real lace gown
swathed with a lavender sash. The lace
made the house sit up and gape. It was
ivory with age and had a pattern unknown
to modern looms. It suited the alleged Dev-
onshire home of the Crewys baronet, which
was more than could be said of the stage
furnishings. The baronet’s sitting-room
was a stunning reminder of a parlor
in a second-rate suburban hash-foundry.
The bamboo writing-desk was particularly
hash-towersome. The Repertorians, who
have many of the extremely affluent among
their supporters, should borrow the next lot
of baronet’s house effects that they use.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Born 1820
—Still going
strong.
o
X
t
n
l
'V
S'-
r
/
2
\
&
\
O
///
\
I
ffo
t*Ns
Nut : “ I SAY, OI.D CHAP, WHAT IS A PARADOX ? ”
Dry Joker; “ Why, ‘ Johnnie Walker.’ ”
Nut : “ I can’t see it/'’
Dry Joker : “ Well ! you can pour out what you cant put in/'’
The reason is because of the wonderful “Johnnie Walker” non-refillable bottle which ensures
you that you get the same superior quality Scotch whisky that the distillers put in.
Increased reserves of Red Label are now being put into bond to meet the enormous increased
demand anticipated in 1924. Every drop of “Johnnie Walker ” Red Label Scotch Whisky
is over 10 years old.
Guaranteed same Quality throughout the World.
Bottled only by JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, of KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE


THOROUGHLY ERADICATED.
THREAD WORMS IN A CHILD AND
ALSO IN ADULT.
The complete manner in winch COM-
STOCK’S "DEAD SHOT” WORM I'EL-
LETS eradicate worms is strikingly illus-
trated in the statement published below.
The statement is one freely given by Mrs.
A. Bristow, 37 Regent Street, Sydney,
N.S.W., whose little girl of seven had been
troubled with these parasites, and also con-
cerning a friend who had been troubled in
a like manner for 20 years. Mrs. Bristow’s
statement is as follows : “My little girl, aged
seven years, w T as subject to thread worms,
which caused her to be peevish, irritable and
restless at night, with a voracious appetite,
and I procured all sorts of remedies for her,
but without avail, until I saw Comstock’s
‘Dead Shot’ Worm Pellets advertised, and
my husband told me to buy them. I did
so; and after she had taken one box and a
part of the second, all traces were eradi-
cated, having passed great numbers of them.
Since then a friend of mine who had suffered
also from thread worms f0r.20, years, endur-
ing much discomfort, rendering her pale,
sallow and thin, and which caused her much
internal trouble, with a feeling of sickness,
during this time using all sorts of remedies,
such as turpentine and different worm pow-
ders to remove them, without avail. At
length she was induced to try Comstock’s
‘Dead Shot’ Worm .Pellets, and after taking
the third box (following the directions
minutely) she was pleased to iind that the
worms not only ceased to trouble, but that
all trace of them had left her, that her health
was returning, she was increasing in weight
and getting a better color. She cannot
speak too highly of them, and recommends
them to all whose children are suffering in
this way.”
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal preparation
for the eradication of worms in children and
adults. For sale by all chemists and store-
keepers. price 2s. 9d. per packet, or will be
sent post paid at the same price by The
W. 11. Comstock Co.. Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Church Hill. Sydney.*
Among the various shop-window displays now to
he seen in the city that of Mr. A. M. Solomon,
Tobacconist, 173 Pitt Street, is certainly most unique
and patriotic. In this window of tobacconist’s goods,
most tastefully arranged, are the flags, photographs of
the sovereign heads, and principal generals and War
Ministers of Great Britain and her Allies ; but perhaps
the most interesting of all is the display of badges
of the famous British regiments now fighting in
France. Mr. Solomon is one of the few city merchants
who, in spite of the war, has been successful in
getting his full stocks of goods for his Christmas
trade, llis assortments of smoker’s goods of all
description are most complete.*
Such deeds as the sinking of the four
German cruisers is what is expected of a
navy inspired by Kritish love of right, and,
wisely counselled by that gallant spirit,
King George I V. top-notch Scotch.*'
Since the outbreak of war the Birmingham Small
Arms Co., Ltd., have had an extremely busy time
executing orders for rifles, bicycles and motors for
the British Army. However, this work has not inter-
fered with the usual business arrangements of the
firm, and the shortage of the famous B.S.A. bicycle
parts in Australia a while ago was due solely to
disorganised shipping arrangements.*
Hotel, 1
DANIELL
-
BRISBANE,
M
M
M
M
POLITICAL
POINTS
Presumably to show how prosperous you
ere if you go to the pawnshop often enough,
the N. S. Wales Government last week
declared that champagne is a necessary com-
modity, and some vile traders who had put
up the price were ordered to instantly pull
5 t down again.
The old sand-baggers are now trying to
knock out the proposal that we should make
our own aerial war-machines. “The art
of flying is yet in its infancy,” they say.
“Bet us wait for the more perfect machine.”
If it is the fool-proof air-cradle we are to
wait for, the job of making our own war-
craft is likely to pass right away from us.
On the other hand, if Australia starts
maki-n,g the best ’planes it can, like decent,
reliant members of the family, its inventors
will be encouraged to think aerially, and
may eventually produce the machine that
will set the pattern" to the Empire. The
dreadful habit of waiting like a raw savage
for the beads and tomahawks of foreigners
is absurd and humiliating.
. In the House of Representatives the other
night Irvine made one of those speeches
beloved of judges who affect a child-like
innocence. Said he, in a voice as soft as
buttermilk: “I hope that the appointment
to the important office of High Commis-
sioner will never be made from political
motives.” And Irvine knows that most
appointments are political—even to the
judicature. Agents-General are appointed
sometimes for party service—oftenest be-
cause the party in power is afraid of the
appointee. Thus in order that Cook might
one day be Prime Minister George Reid
was made High Comiumsi.oner, though there
had never been a worse "Australian in the
political sense. The best man for the posi-
tion, and the man who had earned it by
good and unselfish service, marred only by
his excess of affability, was Alfred Deakin.
But lie wasn’t in anybody’s road, so lie was
left where he wa s.
Peacock of Victoria, after looking honest for
quite a while, has shed the gorgeous tail
feather of integrity and decided to: go the
same road as the rest, which, of course, is
downhill. All tracks to the pawnshop are
downhill. The drought having struck Vic-
toria like perdition, Peacock expects a deficit
of anything up to £1,000,000. But he does
not propose to levy any other extra taxes im-
mediately to alleviate the trouble. When he
is quite sure of the amount of the shortage—
which will be when the shortage has hap-
pened—he intends to cover it with a tempo-
rary loan, if he can get one, for loans may be
as scarce as Christian devils when Peacock is
most in need of them. Then taxes are to be
increased with a view to paying off the short-
age in four years. Of course, if things con-
tinue bad there may be four more shortages in
four years, but Peacock laughs with a garish
howl and trusts to Providence.
THE POSITION.
Alderman Jones, vice-chairman of the health com-
mittee, answered some statements that had betn made
regarding the disposal of city refuse. He contended
that the position was not properly understood.
Press.
Victoria hasn’t nearly enough wheat for
its requirements for a year; consequently
Premier Peacock was much upset when he
lately learned that the South Aus. Govern-
ment had bought some 140,000 bushels of
the scarce Victorian seed-grain for its own
farmers. He promptly forbade the railway
department to carry it over the border, and
started negotiations with Peake to buy it
back for his own farmers. And, of course,
Peake wants to make a profit on the deal.
They are great statesmen, these insects that
buzz in local politics.
An American co. which sells kerosene and
other oils has sent out word to its agents
that “it has arranged with the Education
Department here [N.S.W.] that for the next
six months 1,000,000 advertising blotters
shall be used in all State schools.” The co.
attaches sample, and “believes that this will
prove an excellent advertising medium to
our mutual advantage.” The advertising
blotter of course shrieks the merits of its
own particular brand of American kerosene.
Therefore, unless the co. lies, the N.S.W.
Education Department has permitted itself
(for a consideration or otherwise) to become
the advertising agent of foreign oils, not-
withstanding that at this moment there is
at least £1,500.000 sunk in oil works and
accessories in N. S. Wales, and notwith-
standing that, on account partly of the
foreign competition, the local oil industry
is almost at death’s door. The N.S.W.
Department of Instruction has.' in short,
taken on a new job: for a consideration or
otherwise it has become also the Department
of Destruction.
ANO THER BREACH OF NEUTRALITY.
(Apropos the fuss about the German warships that hung around Juan Fernandez.)
RORYSON CRUSOE (furiondy): “Get to blazes off my island! Think you’re going to
drag me into your infernal war? ”
Fitzroy’s five-year contract for the pur-
chase of electricity from Pirate Enterprise
being about to expire, the Council inquired
-from the Melbourne Council if it could get
current from the city works in future, oil the.
same terms as Footscray does, which would
mean a considerable saving. Then the amaz-
ing fact transpired that the Melbourne City
Council had made an agreement with this
particular Pirate Enterprise that neither
should interfere with tip) other’s customers !
A Greater Melbourne Gbuficil would get to
the business of supplying/ all the suburbs ;
but there isn’t any Greater Melbourne Coun-
cil. However, to go on with, the City Coun-
cil might explain why it entered into what
amounts to a conspiracy in restraint of trade.
The Cotter and the Molonglo—
the rivers of the Canberra Federal
capital—run into the Murrurn-
bidgee, and the Murrumbidgee runs
into the Murray, and at latest
advices the Murray had run dry.
It seems a poor outlook for ’Berra
and other places.
The Sydney Telegraph, in its
new-born enthusiasm for Australian
manufactures, recently devoted two
columns to the bedstead industry
of Forster and Co., at Ultimo.
Sydney. This concern started
without Protection, and bO'Omed
greatly, and it has been quoted for
many years by Freetraders as evi-
dence that industries can arise
without the aid of a tariff. But
the Sydney bedstead industry was
founded on certain trade secrets in
the manufacturing line —that is to
say, ah ancient and enterprising
bedsteader devised methods which
led to cheap production. They
weren’t patented because the
Patent Department leaks, and
Englishmen and Germans and
Yankees see. the specifications and
annex the ideas. For many years
the Forster firm supplied the best
bedsteads to leading furnishing
houses. And the craze for every-
thing imported was so bad that
these leading furnishers ticketed
the goods as imported, while they sold any
kind of foreign shoddy as Australian. The
tendency to curse everything Australian isn’t
so bad now as it was, but even to this day
it isn’t so good as it might be.
The U.S. will be known in future as the
U.O. (United Ostrich). Congress has
gravely decided not to investigate the
utterly rotten condition of the defences lest
the attention of foreign nations be drawn
to them —as if foreign nations didn’t know
all about them already. And one United
Ostrich assured the House that a squad of
expert squirrel-shooters would suffice to
prevent any enemy landing on Ostrich soil.
Which may be true—if these shooters can
Bit a squirrel at 15,000 yards.
Mad William lit the fire in a glass furnace
out Alexandria (Sydney) way a fortnight
or so back. Hitherto tens of thousands of
pounds’ worth of cheap glassware has come
into this 'country from Germany, in addition
to the thousands of pounds’ worth of rather
better glass (mostly sheet and plate) that
has come from Belgium. There used to be
glass-works, apart from the bottle-maker’s, in
Sydney: but the German strangled the busi-
ness. Now the Australian Crystal Glass
Co. has sprinted for the opening (the ex-
Australian champion Nigel Barker being
the managing director, the co. sprints un-
commonly well), and last week the first of
the goods were on. the market. The. com-
pany is feeling ils way, and is not making
either’ sheet or plate glass for the present:
but it is in a position to turn out tons of
the “cast” ware that Australia Jane puts
the jam into and Australia Bill sucks, the
beer out of. And if Australia Jane and
Australia Bill want to provide good work
at good pay for Australia James, jun,, when
he arrives, they will see that the glassware
they use comes out of the Commonwealth’s
own factories.
Melbourne dailies aie putting up sur-
prisingly earnest opposition to the impudent
demands of parsons for safe billets with the
Expeditionary Forces. One of the chap-
lains has been given colonel’s rank and a
salary of £956 a year; and to avoid the
ridiculousness of a parson being senior
officer, the medical officer aboard that par-
ticular transport was promoted to a
colonelcy also. Some of these chardain
majors and captains were getting £2<l<) a
year when they pounded the Word in the
suburbs.
GERMANY'S INTERNAL TROUBLES.
“It is rigorously forbidden for any woman to east
amorous glances at British and French prisoners,”
the text of a proclamation which has been issued by
the military governor of Stuttgart.
FRAULEIN : "Egg's Ruze me! Are you Brid-
dish?”
THE DIE-HARD: “ Divil a bit , lassie! D'ye
na' ken I'm a Saiwth mon free lip-
perary?”
Peacock of Victoria has bought an axe
and is putting an edge on it. The man he
proposes to run after is Holman of N.S.W.
Holman, in a moment of frill and exuber-
ance, persuaded his majority to annul all
contracts for the sale of N.S.W. wheat. In
a number of cases the buyers were Vic-
torians, and Peacock wants to know what
right Holman has, to meddle with inter-
state trade. The recent hot weather was
caused by Peacock’s language.
DINANT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw you first upon the film, a memory to keep—
Pretty little Dinant on the moving screen asleep !
Beneath your tall cliffs cuddled, watching in your
placid dream
Another little Dinant in the mirror of your stream !
The Meuse was scarcely moving, in your streets
there seemed no life,
Quiet little Dinant nestled far from thought of
strife!
And from your tall, grey headlands winter sunlight
slanted down
O r sheltered little Dinant, placid, drowsy little town !
Again I saw you on the film, a village desolate,
Bioken little Dinant, prey to ruthless Herman hate!
Above your twisted, shattered bridge the reddened
river swirled —- f
Ah, huddled little Dinant to a mud destruction
hurled !
This pool of placid beauty in a valley brimmed with
sun,
Thoughtless little Dinant, 3-ours a fate you could
not shun !
You waited in the whirlwind’s track, you suffered
and you fell;
A hundred other Dinants, too, your bitter tale could
tell.
You shirked no sacrifice of war, the price you
bravely paid. <■
Uncomplaining Dinant, all a desolation made!
You saw your soldiers beaten back/ the' fierce, vic-
. torious foe
March through the streets of .I)inant —but your Hell
you did not know!
The battle surged about your bridge, the tide ran
redly brown,
Broken little Dinant bridge, and smoking, ruined
town! *
The worst was over now, ypu thought, the lingering
horro’ - pdst;
But, helpless little Dinant, 'what new horror followed
fast ?
They ranged the humble townsfolk who had watched
with sad amaze
All their homes in Dinant to the skies of thunder
blaze;
They took the men, the townsmen —simple folk like
me and soils
These Prussian fiends in Dinant, and they slew *and
slew and slew!
They kept the women watching, had the children
there to see
All the men of Dinant slaughtered with a hellish
glee:
They shook the maddened women off ; they killed—
and killed the dead !
But, pretty, murdered Diiiant, through the world
your blood runs red ! ‘
Oh, well-dressed, “cultured”, people, now we know
you as you are:
Each German brow with “Dinant” is red-branded
like a scar ! i
For as we know a snake’s a snake, we know the
German now:
The brand of little Dinant is upon each German
brow! .
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


M
M
M
Accordeons as Christmas and
New Year Gifts
at PALING’S.
Every instrument we sell is made of the finest material, and is covered by
our full guarantee for tone and durability.
“BUSHMAN” and “ TOPNOTCHER ” ACCORDEONS.
These instruments are of the best possible quality throughout, and are
unexcelled for their sweet tone. They are suitable for Solos, Dances,
Accompaniments, and harmonise well with the piano, violin, cornet, banjo
and other musical instruments.
NOTE. - All Accordeons are delivered post free to any post town.
TORNOTCHER ” ACCORUEON,
•• BUSHMAN ” TROMBONE ACCORDEON.
STYLE 7. TOPXOTCHER BIJOU ACCORDEOX— HjsrI>Iy polished °ak or cboimwl tops,
9] x inches, double bellows, nickel corners, 2 stops, 2 full sets ot best yellow metal meds,
normal pitch, suited for songs, solos or dance music
STYLE 26. TOPXOTCHER ACCORDEON— fuII concert size, ebonised tops, I°l xs}
inches, extra solid, nickel-bound mouldings, ‘ double bellows, nickel corners, 2 stops, 2 full sets 01
best steel-bronze reeds, low pitch, specially suited for accompanying the voice /-
STYLE 28. TOPXOTCHER ACCORDEOX Full concert size, oak or ebonised tops-, 101 x of
inches, extra solid, nickel-bound mouldings, double bellows, nickel corners, . 2 stops 2 tull ot
best REAL ENGLISH STEEL REEDS, low pitch, specially suited lor accompany m„ the voim oi
solo work A£>l-
STYLE 32. TOPXOTCHER MELODEOX Modern concert size, highly pajUbg gwnjjKg-
tops, 10] x:H inches, double bellows, nickel comers, open action 3 stops, 3 lull sets ot test
extra broad REAL ENGLISH STEEL REEDS, medium pitch, suitable for solos, songs 01 dance
music _' "
STYLE 127. “BUSHMAN” TROMBONE ACCORDEOX- —Imitation walnut tops, solo size,
10] x 51 inches, 12-fold bellows, 2 sets extra yellow metal reeds, 10 keys, 4 basses .50/-
STYI.E 128. “BUSHMAX” TROMBOXE ACCORDEOX Imitation walnut and marquetry
tops, concert size, 111 x 61 inches, 14-fold bellows, 2 sets extra yellow metal reeds, 21 keys and 8
basses 17 / o
STYLE 129. ■ “BUSHMAN” TROMBOXE ACCORDEOX— lmitation walntot and marquetry
tops, concert size, 1U x 6J inches, corner ot tops capped with nickel, 14 : fold bellow*, with
plated caps to each corner, 2 sets extra yellow metal reeds, 21 keys, 8 basses ........... fco/O/-
Catalogues of Player
Pianos, Pianos, Organs,
Violins and all other
known musical inst r u-
ments are post free on
request.
When writing please
mention which particu-
lar instrument you are
interested in. . ■ i
M
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane, Newcastle, Lismore & Toowoomba.
Sole Agents for the
S AMES a glorious
British-built Piano; also
Ronisch, Lipp and Victor
Pianos, Estey Organs,
Victor Player-Pianos,
Ronisch and Lipp Com-
bination Pianos. Write
for FREE Catalogue.
BRITISH
■MADE js?
M
M
Asbestos Cement vSbeets ®. Tiles
“POILITE” SHEETS
“POILITE” Sheets for Walls' (inside and out), Ceilings,
Partitions, etc.
Fire-proof, Ant-proof, Warm in Ypjnfvr, Cool in Summer, Non-
absorbent, and as cheap as They Aire easily and
quickly nailed into position, and art 1 supplied in thd following
sizes:;—
Oft. x oft,, 4ft. x 4ft., Bft. x aft., ancT 12ft. x 4ft.
“POILITE” TILES
“POILITE' 'Piles make attractive and serviceable roofs. They
d° not affect the rain water, arid are most economical. They
are guaranteed British Standard tbickjnoss.
I Cottage erected with
*
‘ Poilitc” Sheets inside and out.
&
We Wghly necommeiTVt SEYON PAINT for painting “ POILITE ” Sheets
the best results, and needs no primary coat.
WRITE FOR CATALOG “M.”
M
(MELBOURNE) PROPRIETARY LTD., 499-501 Bourke St., Melbourne
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence St., Sydney.
Selling Age nts —STEELE. <St BAKER, Adelaide; J. W. R. GARDAM,
CHAS E. BEKNAYS, 45 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Perth.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Austral-!!/rente; RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Hsrvcy s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, UNITED, Redfern, Sydney.
Just one taste of*B.L. will prove its high quality.
BULLOCH LADE ("BL”)
Is Good Whisky, and is Good for You.
Is Obtainable Everywhere, but Equalled Nowhere.
ALWAYS SEE S.V.O. WHITE LABEL.
FLANAGAN’S HOTFT °PP° site Hyde Park,
ILrAimUAll O 111/1 LL, Oxford Street, Sydney
CHARLES HERNON (late of Brisbane) has
just taken over the above Hotel.
EXCELLENT ACCOMMODATION FOR VISI-
TORS. Write or wire for rooms.
TERMS: Per day, Bs. ; per w§ek, 425.
THE BEST HOTEL
TO STAY AT...
when visiting Melbourne is “Scott’s.” Hav-
ing been entirely rebuilt and reconstructed
Scott’s ’ figures now as one of the finest
and largest hotels in Australia. At “Scott’s”
you get both sumptuousness and comfort,
combined with every modern convenience that
can be wished for. Private attendance
phones are connected with all rooms, and hot
and cold water service is installed in
bedrooms.
Excellent Cuisine, Music, and Cool, Comfort-
able “Arcade” and Roof Smoking Lounges.
Write of wire for accommodation.
SCOTT’S HOTEL,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Telegrams—'“Scott’s,” Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
According to latest advices the Totalisator
13111 , ls to be introduced in the N.S.W. Assembly as
a private measure. The thing' sounds like a joke
seeing that that brilliant departed politician, Harry
Levien, intioduced the same old Hill as a private
measure without any result, until every body regarded
Harry and his Bill as the two prize howlers of Parlia-
lnent. For some reason or other the maintenance
ot the rich Private Enterprise bookmaker is Govern-
ment business, inasmuch as the Government won’t
do anything against him. But the establishment of
the Socialistic tote isn’t Government business, though
the instrument doesn’t drink, doesn’t swear, doesn’t
run after barmaids, doesn’t stiffen horses, doesn’t
keep a multitude of people away from productive
employment, gives the public, better returns, and is
calculated to yield £200,000 a year in reduction of
the deficit. The poor old Tote is a 1 wavs a private
members affair, and a private member’s Bill passes
about once in a striped moon.
In last Monday’s Sydney papers Minister
( armichael was reported as having explained
to a deputation that he would support the
shuddersome affair—provided the proceeds went
to charity. Now nobody insists that the
drink or tobacco or opium revenues; or the
fines for gambling, horrible language, indecent
assault, dirty backyards, intense drunkenness or keep-
ing a brothel, or anything of that sort are so
unclean (hat the State mustn’t take them unless they
aie ear-marked for charity. Even the bookmaker’s
license fee doesn’t go to charity. This reservation
applies only to the clean, honest tote. Any number
of dull, respectable folk talk after the manner of
Carmichael with a firm conviction that they are advo-
cating their own ideas, whereas they are mere empty
echoes of something they have heard. How many tens
of thousands did certain of the book-and-bag brother-
hood spend in bribes in order to build up' the arti-
ficial public opinion that it (the brotherhood) may
take gambling money while the State mustn’t do
so; and that the State may, without discredit, take
the profits of beer, blit would be utterly disgraced
if it trenched on the profits of Isaac Barwon?
“Horse Sense”: An instance of the differ-
ence between the tote’s methods and those
of the bookmaker. At Launceston (Tas.) re-
cently a prad called Ettie Chiron won and
paid a tote divvy of a little over £45.
A mug of my acquaintance had ss. on with
a bookmaker “at tote odds.” When he went for his
cash he was handed 505., the Hebrew informing
him that he “only paid tote odds up to 10 to 1.”
The wonder is he set the figure as high as that.
Mostly when I read in the papers that tjhe price of
the rest’’ was 33 to one, I know from bitter-
experience that the highest figure actually obtainable
about any of these doubtful brutes was e’/ghts.
O’Cork”: The one and only Acceptance
for the Villiers Stakes mile, to be runt next Satur-
day at the A.J.C. December meeting, ;is due this
(Thursday) afternoon, and the 57 left i;’n at time of
writing will probably be reduced by m/6re : than half
before the start. Portrush, winner of the Epsom
mile at the Spring meeting, remains in iwith Bst. 71b.,
but is withdrawn from the Summer Clip (Dec. 26).
He scarcely looks a winner at the weight, especially
as scoring therewith would entail prohibitive bur-
dens for a long time to come. Scullv's Randwick
stable is represented by Cisco (Bst. lfllb. ; who has
an A.J.C. Derby among his victories), by Lochano
(Bst. 41b.) —who won one of the A.JlC.’s big mile
events, and is very well, but perhapf better fitted
in the Summer Cup or Tatt.’s Cup, January 1) ;
and by the undistinguished Murringo ; (6st. ' 71b.)’,
who has been doing solid and rapid (track work.’
Tofua, a little but gcod ’un, is in greiit nick, and
should revel in the (for him) light burden of Bst ;
Allaru (6st. 91b.) and Ultramarine (7st.! 101 b.) hail
from the dangerous north, and should gallop fast on
Saturday. To hazard a shot at the mile scramble,
say, Scully’s elect, Murringo (for choice), 1; Tofua,
2; Allaru or Ultramarine, 3.
* * * *
Hard times and the competition of women
is leading man from the path of a Square Deal. At
the Dandenong (Vic.) Agricultural Show the other
day a young man was discovered among the competi-
,? r * f ° r thc ladies’ riding event. Dressed in a
divided skirt and wearing a veil and boxer hat he
rode into the ring, but was rec.ognised and promptly
disqualified with indignity and parboiled language.
* * *
Lbe stipendiary stewards had a busy dav
at Rosehill (Sydney) race meeting on Saturday.
Interference with the running of Arrowform (fav-
orite) in the Clyde Stakes was passed with grim
reflections; late scratching of Chid was responded
to with a fine of £2; breaking through the barrier
cost a jockey £5; and 20 other jocks were relieved
of £1 each for being late at the post. It was a
pleasant day s shell-outing.
lhe aged My Gavonni is still champion
o f i nd ',, 0n Saturda y, with top-weight of
a the ol , d l ,nld won the Southport Handicap,
Platc ed Second posltlon t 0 La Nieve in the Stanley
* * * *
The honest and absolutely reliable tote,
which can’t possibly go broke, got a nice advertise-
ment at Bendigo lately, through the decision of a
Dench that an unlicensed Moses is not guiltv of
obtaining money by false representations provided
that, when he finds he can’t pay his bets, he offers
his hick]e-s customers their stakes back
FIGHT FACES.
Frank Loughrey and Pat Bradley at the
Sydney Stadium.
Seeing that beer is now recognised as a
Necessary Commodity in N.S.W.—at least the price
ot it is to be fixed by the Necessary Commodities
Congregation, and that seems like recognition—it
is surely time that the price of horse-odds was
similarly fixed! Odds on a horse are quite as
necessary as beer, and not nearly so bad for the
stomach nor such a short track to perdition. When
ol ' e c ]° es Set to perdition, where all luxuries are cut
on, the beer-habit will make him feel a lot more
dry and lonely than the odds habit. Seeing that
the Private Enterprise bookie is evidently regarded
by Premier Holman as essential—at least Holman
letuses to a bo] is. 1 him and declines to replace him
u i le Socialistic tote —the price of the goods which
Holman s monopolistic friend sells should certainly
be regulated. A corner in wheat is a merely theo-
letical affair so far as Australia is concerned;
nothing of the kind has ever happened in this
country. On the other hand, a corner in a Cup
iavorite is an event which may occur any day It
generally does, as a matter of fact.
* * * *
. hopes, fears, despair and then
hallelujah, Kahanamoku, the fastest two-legged fish
afloat, was landed at Sydney on Monday. He Will
pioduce some of his best available speed at the
Domam Baths during the first week in January, pro-
vided he is not overwhelmed with kindness mean-
time. Over .the 100 metres the Hawaiian has shown
himsell the best living, and his tear-away at Ham-
burg oyer the distance, in 1912, in lmin. 1 3-ssec.,
will take a lot of electricity to beat: Previous to
that burst, H. H. Hardwick, of N. S. Wales, illum-
inated the records with lmin. 3sec. A. W Barry of
N. S. Wales who will go up against Kahanamoku in
f°l Q fl -U n ; T! " ,u f ry / £ ut . °" t the n °yds. (100 metres
is 109.363yd5.) last Saturday in lmin. 4 4-ssec.
There will be a series of hefty marine
contests at Sydney municipal baths on Saturday
when representative teams from Melbourne and Syd-
ney swimming clubs will meet. To all intents and
pui Poses me splash decides the club championship
ot Australia, and as both clubs have good, well-
traim, 1 material there should be a stirring afternoon
m the cld pool by the Domain.
*
Pat Bradley and Prank Loughrey,' two
of the ruggedest lads in the business, met at Svdnev
Stadium on Saturday .night. Both are Irish, and both
iook to wm their contests by knock-outs. From the
start they threw blue-metal at each other, and
now and then half a paving-stone. Anyway, the effect
was like that. Loughrey’s punch may be a shade less
lethal than Bradley’s, but it is considerably more
frequent. _ In the third round he smote Bradley on
the jaw 174 times, and also hooked and crossed and
uppercut him 61 times a minute. In the fourth
round he reached Bradley’s jaw on 348 occasions,- and
repeated the other business with increased vigor.
Bradley emerged, for the fifth, with the haggard aspect
of one who expects to be beaten on the jaw 696
times. However, he still remained captain of his
soul. He swung a left, which fell upon Loughrey’s
chin like a mined cathedral. The latter’s knees
gave. He attached himself to Bradley after the
fashion of an octopus. Bradley’s devastated fea-
tures lighted up with the beacon-fire of Hope. He
didn’t know much for the moment, but he knew
enough to hang on. As an instance of his indomi-
table spirit, he turned, even in this black hour, to
the seats occupied by the Personages of pugilism,
and with something that was intended for a smile,
said: “Well! Howjer like me?” Bradlev did not
flatter his admirers again. He was a 'bit above
himself in condition—he fights best at lOst. 121 b.,
and his weight was list. 41b. an hour before the
contest. Furthermore, even his iron jaw must
have begun to feel the battering to which it had
been subjected. In the eighth round he was all
out, a defenceless target for his busy and still power-
ful little adversary. To the general relief referee
FI a raid Baker stopped the fight. Loughrey, who
weighed nearly a stone less than his fellow-country-
man, is one of the gamest and most vigorous fighters
that Australia has seen.
* * * *
Some men are haunted by the conviction
that all grass is mud, that everything is cronk,
and that the world in general is a taVe-down.
Last Saturday, f’rinstance, at Sydney Stadium, as
Pat Bradley was being led away half-dead to his
dressing-room, and as his conqueror was making
for a doctor to have a lip sewn up, a friend of
the writer’s offered the opinion that the contest
was a fake. This after the parties concerned had
been hurling blows powerful enough to stop a
tram, and after both had been within a few
seconds of a knock-out; and despite the further
fact that there had been no betting worth the
name on the match. There is a type of sportsman
whose ashes will rise up on the final day of reckon-
ing and proclaim that the jurv-squarer has been at
work in connection with the Last Judgment.
Les O’Donnell and Ben Doyle are to meet
at Sydney Stadium on Saturday next. O’Donnell
is the Sydney boxer whom Tommy Burns pro-
nounced to be a coming champion six years ago.
The good opinion of Tommy, one of the rottenest
judges of the merits of a boxer living, was some-
thing of a handicap, but O’Donnell has more or
less weathered the gale. He was adjudged worthy
to be outed by McGoort.v the other day. Doyle
is a freak. He looks 45. His stomach is alder-
manic, and his head is bald. Yet a few weeks
ago he fought Storbeck, the youthful S. African
heavyweight, to a standstill. Doyle is a shearer
by profession, and learnt the fighting art back o’
sunset.
* * * *
Eugene Corn, who refereed the Carpentier-
Gunboat Smith mel6e in London a while back, is
threatening’ a book entitled “Thirty Years as a
Boxing Referee.” Com- is alleged to be the only
ref. who has never accepted a copper for interpreting
the rules of stoush even in world’s championship dis-
putes. Recently he proudly announced that he
wouldn’t consider a large four-figured inducement to
direct the classic discussion between Johnson and
Burns, and still more recently he declined £2OO a
week to narrate his experiences in Amurkan vaude-
ville houses.
Some pugs who have gone after German
scalps: Bandsman Rice, Bandsman Blake (not known
on Australian boards), Petty-Officer Curran, Pat
O’Keefe, Georges Carpentier. ‘ There are other
.sports at the Big Scrap who are well known to this
country, notably A. F. Wilding, the tennis player;
Stanley Wooten, horseman. Wilding early distin-
guished himself in action, and was promoted.
•T. H. Pollock, who has been made presi-
dent of the Maoriland Amateur Athletic Association,
is one of the best sports in the business or amuse-
ment. Probably no man in M.L. has done more to
foster athletics. It was the Kaiser of Germanv who
said, “Give me the athlete and I’ll do the' rest”
(when Berlin was fixed for the Olympic games).
£?® orne extent Pollock is providing the athlete and
William is getting the rest.
* * * *
In a real brick-fielder, possession of the
Dunn Shield was decided at Sydney Sports Ground
on Saturday. South Sydney Athletic Club retained
the decoration by a narrow margin. One N S
Wales record was broken (by W. J. O’Reilly, of’ the
Police A.A.C., who shied the 161 b. hammer 141 ft
10Jin.) and four Dunn shield records.
The consistent Miss Mace won the ladies’ 50vds.
and 75vds. championships of Australia on Saturday.
“•X wins and the win in the 100yds. champion-
slop the previous Saturday she collected a shield pre-
sented by enthusiastic supporters of women’s mights
on the playing fields.
H* * *
A wholesome effort is afoot to put more
lite into professional athletics in Australia. NSW
Athletic League (with the help of “promoters”) is
pushing the good cause with a series of “mixed”
(men and women) events at Christmas time; while
similar efforts will be made at Newcastle. In Vic-
toria the movement is even more vigorous.
Ma’s XI, which opens the Sheffield Shield
contests at Adelaide to-morrow (Friday), was further
chopped about last week through Macartney, Hop-
kins and Flynn (three bowlers) dropping out. The
perturbed selectors filled the vacancies with J.
Randall, H. Cranney and C. W. Sheppard. Randall
has taken most wickets in Sydney first-grade cricket
this season 38 for 576 (average, 15.15 per wicket).
More than half the team are new to the South.
The South Aus. XI to meet N.S.W. seems
-ikely to be in trouble. Clem Hill’s final retirement
from the game was anticipated, but it is in bowling
that the weakness threatens. Crawford has moved
to Maoriland since last season, leaving only Whitty
of the older men and Rundell of the “coming” lot •
and business will keep both of them out of the
held. Easily the two most reliable bowlers after
these are—in club cricket—the veterans Albert
Wright and Joe Travers; and S.A. may have
to ask them to see if they- have lost their former
inter-State punch; and there is also talk of trying
an up-country bowler. B
Percy K. Bowden, who recently relin-
quished the secretaryship of the N.S.W. Cricket
Association, more or less bossed the show for 19
years. His main assets were a capacity for work and
a steadv judgment. Frank IrecMe has been selected
to fill the bill.
* * * *
Close finishes in first-class cricket are
comparatively rare. But on Saturday three games
in Sydney’s First-Grade Competition were in doubt up
to the bowling of the last ball, and in each case
the' ball beat the bat. Petersham, Redfern and
Waverley outed Paddington, Glebe and Balmain by
13, 14 and 15 runs respectively.
* * * *
“Bails” : The Bulletin’s par, about Mid-
lane, Maoriland's great batsman, was correct up to
this week, when he made 171. At time of writing
his average is 143, or so close to that for the season
that the scorers would have to take a day off to
work out the difference.
When the speed boats entered for the
Australasian Championship and Griffith Cup go out
for an airing shortly, at Melbourne, there will be
something urgent. Five speeders have entered, which
is a record. South Aus. is to enter the lists for the
first time, Gordon H. McFarlane having nominated
his hydroplane Millawa. The one-time champion,
Kangaroo, will trail her flag for N.S.W., while the
present champion, Nautilus 11., will be Victoria’s
hope. Nautilus 11. and Kangaroo should provide the
tussle.
* # * ■*
R. Short is the most promising sculler in
N. S. Wales. On top of recent successes he picked
up the first prize cash in the handicap at Como
recently from the lOsec. mark, and there are bar-
rackers who are prepared to support him in more
important matches. Money has been sunk with less
prospects.
The success of Enterprise in the recent
N.S.W. championship “eights” added to the earlier
successes of the club in the singles and “fours,”
makes anew record in Ma State’s rowing. From a
“gate” viewpoint, however, the regatta was a failure.
Until rowing and sculling events are helped with a
trifle by those who patronise the bank, there isn’t
much chance of anything but a deficiency at the
treasury. Rowing is a sport that deserves better
treatment.
“Bumpkin”: The crowd which, follows
sailing races on Port Jackson is exercised over a
happening on December 5. The first heat was being
sailed, and Mona was well in the lead, when by some
means the rounding buoy in Taylor Bay. disappeared.
The boats in the rear were thus able to make a short
cut and get well ahead of those which sailed the
full course. Mona got up just in time to qualify
for the final, which she won. Nevertheless all the
sports on the steamers following the races who
backed Mona for the heat dropped their money. The
protest came along in due course; but Mona, which
was the boat most affected, refused to join in, as
she had won the final, and didn’t want any re-sail.
The committee thereupon decided that the result
was to stand. Nobody listened to the row among
the punters. What are punters for unless to be
fleeced ?
* * * *
Bowls, one time the pastime of old buffers,
but now numbering devotees of all ages and both
sexes, showed its popularity in Sydney last week
when, at the opening of the season, 500 trundlers
rolled the wood over some 30 swards. But these
are poor figures compared with the statistics of
Maoriland, where some 15,000 players turn up every
Saturday when weather permits. In the Common-
wealth States Victoria holds pride of place in the
number of players', the condition of greens and keen-
ness of play. N. S. Wales lags behind, and in-
creases the number of club members but slowly.
As foreshadowed last week, the powers
that govern bowling in N. S. Wales, and who were
delegated to control the Easter carnival, have
defaulted, so the gathering has beeen postponed
pending the decision of the Australian Bowling
Council. The committee in making this decision
had in mind the fact that Australia’s bowlers in
arms, sons of bowlers and brothers of bowlers will at
this date probably be in the firing-line. The N.S.W.
officials, looking at eventualities,, decided that even
if the news at that time is glorious, it will be better
to postpone a carnival until the clouds have blown
away than arrange for pleasure at a time when many
players may be mourning.
* ■}{■ * *
The erstwhile all-victorious bowling club
of "Victoria, Armadale, has taken a back seat this
year. W axman and co. have not shown the prowess
exhibited in the Queensland victories. Their pedestal
has been removed. Pedestals are an encumbrance at
best.
*-- t * *
League cycling is on the verge of another
boom or burst in Australia. According to secretary
H. Mackay, the Federal Cycling Council has un-
earthed a shipdykit which proposes to spin off race
meetings in the capitals and principal towns in the
Commonwealth. It is estimated that the shindykit
will control meetings in 200 towns in the six States,
which is ya large order. The Federal Council ex-
pects to £3OO in return for its patronage, of
which £225 will be distributed to the State Leagues
to keep the wheels revolving.
N.S.W. League of Wheelmen is going
to have its own blow-out during Christmas week —
handicap races on December 25 (one mile) and 26
(4-mile) and the 48-hours team struggle on January
L In addition to the time event, there will be run
off on New Year’s Day a 10-miles international
championship. It will be a powerful and uplifting
week.
“E.W.”: Rod Heath’s action in dropping
out of the Victorian lawn tennis team v. N.S.W.
at the eleventh hour (allegedly because he was over-
looked for the captaincy) has been condoned by the
Vic. L. T. Association. Heath expressed “regret,”
etc., and the apology was accepted in a manner
worthy of the occasion. Victoria would, perhaps,
have won the rubber had Heath whirled his racquet.
Oil the other hand, perhaps it wouldn’t. Perhaps is
a vague and unsatisfactory animal.
* * * *
The entries for Sydney lawn tennis badge
matches have dropped by comparison with last year
Of the 13 teams entered in A grade, the committee
gave the hall-mark to nine—three less than the pre-
vious year. In B and C arades there are 84 teams
a reduction of seven. The club system or the war
appears to be knocking the pastime.
THE SLAVE OE THE RING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A case in which the earnings of bookmakers were
involved was heard at the Bathurst District Court.
The defendant, a bookmaker, said he had found
fencing work more profitable than bookmaking.
—Distressing news item.
A motor-car
And a ehoice cigar,
A theatre-box and a diamond star,
A bottle of wine in a private bar—
What very desirable things they are!
So punters think
As they hear the chink
Of quids in a corpulent bag, and they wink,
And observe: “Gorblime!” or “Strike me pink!
We’re mugs orrite! Le’s ’ave a drink!”
But could they know
The worry and woe,
And the trials a bookie must undergo,
And the arduous row that he has to hoe,
They’d weep with compassion for Aaron Mo!
The homeward drag
With a weighty swag,
And with vocal cords like a tattered rag,
The physical strain, and the mental fag—
The Man with the Hoe is the Man with the Bag!
If these are things
That prosperity brings,
Then what must he feel when the favorite springs
To the front and remains there as if it had wings ?
When lie’s slaughtered to furnish the Sport of
Kings ?
It’s only a sense
Of duty, intense,
That keeps lkev fielding with ve-he-mence.
It s nothing to do with pounds, shillings and pence.
He’d rather be farming or making a fence!
N.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


YOU’D BE AN EASY MARK
FOR A SCIENTIFIC BOXER!
♦
Si
• '
Because you're inexperienced. You’d be flurried and excited, and
consequently leave openings, which would enable your opponent
to “deal” it out to you.
lour scientific opponent would be constantly drawing you
on. He’d be calm and collected, and make every blow leave
a mark. You’d be unable to penetrate his defence, and would
be ashamed at your lack of knowledge, and at the humiliation
of your being defeated—possibly by a smaller man.
Ash yourself the question:—
IS IT WISE TO REMAIN CRUDE, when 1 can make you a
Scientific Boxer ?
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST
—instruct you how to be a sound, practical,
hard-hitting Boxer, good in attack and
defence. My course explains in a thoroughly
practical way. every serviceable move in
Boxing—every efficient lead, counter, guard,
feint, etc. The advantage of every direction is
fully explained, so that you will realise its
value, and therefore remember it.
Be a Scientific Boxer. This is YOUR
opportunity. My illustrated 32-page Booklet,
“Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” gives full
particulars. You ought to write for a copy.
Kindly send 3d. to cover postage.
REG. L. ("Snowy”) BAKER,
377 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Christmas
Presents for
Smokers.
To the man who
smokes there is no
present more accept-
able than a box of
cigars, a pipe, tobacco
pouch, or some article
of this nature.
If you wish to make
a satisfactory selection
I suggest that you
write to-day for a free
copy of my catalog,
“A Discri matin g
Smoker’s Guide.”
My La Nova
is an excellent smoke,
and a great favorite
with many of my cus-
tomers.
30/- per 100. Packed
in boxes of 25, 7/6 per
box.
Postage on one box,
6d.; Inter-State, Bd.
p£t. 7
Actual Size.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“Cigar Expert,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“SHELL”
BENZINE
AGAIN insisted on
by
Sir Ernest Shackleton
for use in
The Imperial Antarctic
Expedition.
7-h.p. Twin, Free-engine,
3-inch Tyres, £6B.
Hendee Manufacturing Co.
109 Russell Street, Melbourne, VIC.
Send for Catalog D.
HOTELKEEPERS ! HOTELKEEPERS !
ECKERSLEY’S DISPENSER
For the Rapid Production of Pure,
Crystal, Effervescent, Draught Lemon-
ade, Sodawater and every variety of
Aerated Drink.
NO LABOR ! NO BOTTLE-WASHING !
NO BOTTLE FILLING. NO LABELLING OF
BOTTLES! NO BROKEN BOTTLES!
WORKS AUTOMATICALLY.
By Electric or Water Power.
Bar attendant simply pulls a lever and mechanical
power instantly supplies the required drink.
Write for descriptive Catalog to
ECKERSLEY’S,
25a GEORGE STREET* SYDNEY,
or S. MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND ACENTS: Messrs. ELLIOTT DONALDSON &
DOUGLAS, 529-33 Queen Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
M
Wool |
Hides
Tallow
Sheep Skins
Rabbit Skins
and Other
Produce.
S j/\. L E S held at frequent
intervals by
Australian Mercantile Land
and Finance Co. Ltd.
4 BLIGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Correspondence Invited.
Every Dress-Particular Man
M
appreciates RIGNEY SHOES. The Shoe
is the last touch which either makes or mars
a man’s appearance, therefore select your
shoes carefully.
RIGNEY SHOES mirror every authentic
fashion, and ensure a shoe of becoming dis-
tinction.
The illustration is a Tan Willow Calf
Three-button Shoe, Smart American Shape,
Brown Cloth Tops, “Non-Tread Over”
Brand, Best English Manufacture.. 32/6
Also in Patent Leather. . . 32/6 and 35/-
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG,
THE RIGNEY *SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
Y@wJmmW WmYmisr
will be all the more enjoyable
if you have your Car—Motor
Cycle—or Bicycle shod with
for they mean absence of
trouble, and good service.
It’s the Quality and Strength
of these Durable Tyres that
make them so suitable and
popular for Touring.
OBTAINABLE ALL GARAGES & DEPOTS,
i
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All Statet and N.Z.
“Snell”: Why are military officers so fat?
Here in Melbourne, at any rate, no military
man can be really eminent who is not so
fat that he cannot get his knees to knock
for love or money. There must be something
conducive to condition in this profession, as
there is in that of an alderman, and in the
plaintive calling of a tenor. Send 20 Mel-
bourne officers I can mention to the front,
and that already elongated streak will have
to be extended one mile. There are two
very prominent khaki heroes in particular
whom I would defy the worst German gunner
to miss at three leagues. One of them is
known as “The Breaker.” He has broken
five horses since hostilities started at Broad-
meadows —broken them all up.
By “Pat O’Maori” :—
Official information has come to hand that the
Battle of Flanders is at an end, and that both
sides are just about where they were when it
started. The German lines seem to be in the
nature of a long chain of forts, and forts take a
lot of. getting into. Castile, which afterwards
became Spain, was for centuries a long line of forts
on the Moorish border. Even when there was no
battle-business doing, the forts stayed there and the
Moors failed to get past them. If Germany can stand
the hunger and the sickness and the sorrow and the
isolation and the scorn of all the world except
Turkey and Chicago, the Battle of Flanders may
become an annual fixture, to the immense advantage
of Iirupp’s, in which the Kaiser is a prominent
shareholder.


ACTRESS TELLS SECRET
A Well-known Actress Tells How She
Darkened Her Grey Hair and
Promoted its Growth With a
Simple, Home-made Mixture.
Miss Blanche Rose, a well-known actress,
>vho darkened her grey hair with a simple
preparation which she mixed at home, in a
recent interview, made the following state-
ment: “Any lady or gentleman can darken
their grey hair and make it soft and glossy
with this simple recipe, which they can mix
at home. To a half-pint of water add loz.
of bay rum, a small box of Orlex Compound,
and |oz. of glycerine. These ingredients can
be bought at any chemist’s at very little cost.
Apply to the hair twice a week until it
becomes the required shade. This will make
a grey-haired person look 20 years younger.
11 is also fine to promote the growth of hair,
relieves itching and scalp humors, and 'is
excellent for dandruff and falling hair.”* [2
Here's
JWhy
FOR MEN OF ACTION
Those who believe that “ The Best is
Cheapest in the End ” will assuredly
select the World=famous
riOSQIEL
RUG
The World’s Finest Travelling Rug.
Made of the Purest Wool, and
Wonderfully Cosy.
Sold at all
the Best Shops
[3
IHE GREAT REMEDY.
<&mh s
w GOUT W
(SL rheumatic piles.
Xl)e severe pain of Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Neuralgia can be relieved by
BLAIR’S BILLS, the Medicine that has
stood the test of Time. Purely vegetable.
Sure and Safe. Sold by all Drug Stores
and 22b Strand, London, England, in Boxes
at Is. and 2s. 6d.
Wholesale Agents: Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
F. 11. Paulding and Co.. Sydney, and others.
PILES.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF.
LEMOLAC FOR PILES stops all irrita-
tion at once. Reduces Swelling-.
Cures. NOT ONE FAILURE. Money
Back if not effecti v e. 3/6 at all Chemists, or post free from
THE LEMOLAC CO., 178 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY,
V
FOB
QUICK RESULTS'
USE
(fIPILLfIRINE
Don’t despair if other preparations
have failed —try Capillarine. Tt
never fails to develop a smart,
manly moustache in a short time.
Hundreds have proved its merit.
Try It Yourself—lo/6 Jar, post free.
Craig & Aitken,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established Over SO Years.
the teeth cleaned both
easily and thoroughly
get
Scld by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co.. Manchester, Eng.
mm.
'
>'
The
Daintiest of
XMAS GIFTS
Can you imagine a more charming
idea in Christmas or New Year
cards than a Zenobia-perfumed
Greeting Sachet?
“All the world and his wife” know
Zenobia Perfumes —the only faithful re-
productions of the scents of such long-
cherished flowers as the Lily of the
Valiev, the Sweet Pea and the Night-
scented Stock. Zenobia Sachets are im-
pregnated with these or other delicious
fragrances.
Made in silk or satin in a large variety
of shapes and tints, and enclosed in
pretty book-form greeting cards. Ask to
be shown a selection.
Wholesale Agents lor Australasia:
THE A M. & I. CO.. LTD.,
5-11 Parker Street (llay market),
Sydney; and /00 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
M
M
Sole Manufacturers:
ZENOBIA LTD., Dept. 72,
LOUGHBOROUGH,
ENGLAND. A
FOR XMAS SIFTS
go to the stationer who specialises in
3»wan"
F©UWP*MS
A Stationer’s shop usually is
a rich field for gift buyers,
but nothing else you can think
of will find such favor as a
“Swan.” A “Swan” is an
intimate gift practical yet
pretty; strong yet dainty ;
a thing to be always carried,
and lasts for years.
Sold by all
Stationers
A point for every hand.
Every “ Swan ” is guaranteed.
A Catalogue for a p. c.
fIABIE, TODD & CO.,
Manufacturers, London.
J. A. BURKE (wholesale),
255 a George Street, Sydney.
J
‘SWAN
PENS
are made in
LONDON
CB>
a fl
An Odorless
Breath
is but one of the many advantages that Pebeco provides.
Cleaner, whiter, stronger teeth, firmer, healthier gums,
and a high standard of mouth health all inevitably
follow its night and' morning use.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube, with useful Book and interesting test, Free
for three penny stamps, on application to the
Manufacturer.
G. ARNOLD
(Dept. A), 6 O’Connell St., Sydney.
(WHOLESALE ONLY.) [3
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop's” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
The Inky Way.
C. E. W. Bean, oflicial war
correspondent, lias got./ his first big story
through. It is the best detailed account of
the / fight between the Sydney and the
Emaen yet received, and, for a “pick-up,”
is ,’out of the ordinary. Carefulness in the
matter of detail is characteristic of Bean,
and in his account of the stirring scrap off
Cocos Islands he gave Australians practically
all that was to be told, and more than any
one man aboard either ship could have
known. Given a fair chance, Bean will come
through the big trouble as his 'nominees, the
Australian Journalists’ Association, more
than hoped—one of the best of the Empire's
war-correspondents,
ft * *
“Vic”: Bendigo experience has furnished
editors both for Age and Akgusv Schuler,
,of the Age, was bound to come. Born at
sea, of German parents, he reached Australia
at live years of age. He is now (31, so has
had 56 years of Australia, where all his
associations arc. He joined the Age i>5
yeaLs aao, and worked his way up every
rung of the ladder. As one who lias worked
with—that is to say, against him —I bear
testimony to his splendid ability, most
evidenced in editorship. A finer daily jour-
nalist Australia never saw. His 15 years’
editorship of the Age has, in my opinion,
eclipsed those of G. P. Smith, Harrison.
Windsor and Syme himself. The paper
never was so good in the backbone of news,
gathered with irreproachable skill. Its
“beats” are continual. It lias been more
brilliant, but never so good in the essential
requirements of a newsoaper. Schuler’s only
weakness is shown in two heavy adverse
libel actions, indicating some lack of care or
balance.
THE LEGEND DUTIFUL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
, Each paper doth the legend nurse,
And with the years it grows,
Anent some bloke whose dazzling speed
At shorthand none could e’er exceed, '
And whose delightful prose .
Was great, as was his nose for news I
The marvel mostly died of booze!
The ancient lights upon thcstgff
The time think always ripe
For telling how dead Scrawler wrote.
The finest work tO-day, they vote,
Compared with his, is tripe!
Nobody evbr did the Cup
So well, or put such headings up.
A speaker who talked twice as fast
As Deakin, when in stride,
In longhand Scrawler used to take;
While weighty judgments could he fake
Before a : cause was tried.
No shrinking public man they knew, ,
Whom Scrawler could not interview.
However well the young bloods do,
They cannot e’er attain
The dignity of Scrawler’s style.
And so, in rage, each musty file
They search —but all in vain—
For glowing prose to make them feel
How crude were ltuskin, Swift and Steele!
Then in the course of time they learn
That Scrawler’s largely fake.
His work was often fairly bright,
But ne’er the Yarra set alight,
Or caused the earth to quake—
Invented by the old hands to
Keep in our places me and you!
They reckon this their duty. But
This fact keep in your head,
Young, inky Atlases: You may
Yourselves be Scrawlevs some fine day
When you are safely dead !
Your tripe they’ll praise with bated breath —
And hint that drinking caused your death!
VICTORIA,
HARRISON O.
MAXIMS FOR WOMEN JOURNALISTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1. Avoid mentioning Bands of Hope. Everything
that is “deserving” is dull.
2. No woman calls for honorable mention simply
because she has a motor-car. Motor-cars should now
be taken for granted.
3. It is no use trying to boost the stock of young
singers by describing them as “promising.” All
young singers are promising. They have to be.
4. Don’t try to stand every opening sentence on its
head. People have died of things.like: “Very beauti-
ful were the dresses worn at the Paddlestump dance
last week.”
5. Let it be taken for granted 'that every woman
you approve of is “pretty” and “swee't.”
6. Try to see Society in perspective. “Society”
doesn’t consist of the Governor and 20 also-rans.
7. Avoid actresses. They live by advertisement,
and it is the press agent’s job and not yours to get
it for them.
8. Accuracy is desirable. Mrs. Smyth’.would rather
not be mentioned than described as 1 Smythe. The
mistake suggests that she isn’t well known, and that’s
the suggestion she wants to avoid.
9. The movements of Governors are always the
same. It is practically impossible to make interest-
ing news out of them. Be original and ignore
Governors.
10. Never treat a bazaar seriously.' Everybody
secretly hates bazaars.
11. Keep pretty children-out. Others will attend
to the similar job of excluding dogs from racecourses.
12. A little charity appeal goes a long. way. Your
business is to sell the reader something, not to beg.
13. It is a mistake to resurrect a man who has
been dead for years, and adversely criticise his race
hat. It pains his relatives, and isn’t good for your
editor’s temper.
14. No one' issue should contain more Than four
retractations- If he apologised too often, the faithful
would begin to waver even about the Pope,
15. Some of the people who are mentioned regularly
could -only make themselves of interest by being
slain in church. Wait to mention them till some-
body does the necessary slaying.
16. The undeniable fact that the Mayoress of
Stodgehurst opened the bazaar in a green hat is only
of faint interest one week after the event. It is of
no interest whatever in a month. Publish the green
hat quickly or not at all.
17. Don’t write about politics, or finance, or agri-
culture. If you knew anything worth mentioning
about such things you wouldn't, be writing social
news; and everybody is aware of jt.
18. If prominent people attend ragtime dances
when their near relatives have been dead but a few
days, remember that discretion earns the better part
of your salary, and don’t see them.
SMALL BEER.


MISSION FURNITURE at HALL’S.
THE HOME COMPLETELY FURNISHED IN SOLID OAK FOR
PS
M
...j
jys
i p i
m
i§
L''- :
m 3.
* ; , ' -
fe 1
a
SMIS
Ref. No. OAK BEDROOM (Photographed).
31.—“ Canberra” Oak Bedroom Suite, comprising, Oft. Wardrobe, full-length mirror in right-hand compartment, bow front, large Hat
Cupboard, also deep drawer at bottom; 4ft. Dressing Table, with shaped, bevelled mirror and 4 large drawers; 4ft. Washstand,
shaped tile back and double-door cupboard. Oxidised mounts throughout £29 10 0
431.—Solid Oak Chair, to match ~ 0 12,- B
4ft. 6in. Solid Oak Bedstead, “Kurunda,” fitted with all-brass Italian top . 7 13 J O
143.—4 ft. 6in. Kapok Mattress, Bolster and 2 pillows, in best linen ticking, No. 3 2 12 6
149.—4 ft. bin. Treble Wire Mattress, with rolled sides » 1 1 0
6-piece Toilet Set • . . 12 6
Write for particulars of Entrance Hall, Dining Room, Maid’s Room, Kitchen and all Floor Covering, Furnishing Drapery "
and Bed Linen, We shall also post on reguest a Copy of our Large Illustrated Catalogue and other Furnishing Estimates . f
A. HALL (EL CO.,
The Reliable Home Furnishers n ———
501, 501 a, 503, 505> 507 George Street, Sydney
Stewart Dawson’s
Christmas Necklets
A dainty necklet makes an ideal gift for a lady. Stewart
Dawson’s Christmas Display is exceptionally attractive,
inasmuch as it includes many designs set with Diamonds
and Gems, ranging in prices from 55/- upwards.
The Necklet illustrated is solid 15ct. gold, set with
selected Aquamarines and Pearls. A very charming
design. Posted Free.
Get our Christmas Catalogue.
Shopping time is getting shorter. Shop by mail early, in
order to avoid delays. We will post our Christmas
Catalogue by return mail. Write for a copy.
STEWART DAWSON'S
Strand Corner,
412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
YOUR ENCYCLOPEDIA.
A Handy, Up=to=date Work in Two Volumes. 2700 Pages.
Strongly and Handsomely Bound in the Best Flexible Morocco.
Delivered Free for a First Payment of 3 -
THE STANDARD PRACTI-
CAL ENCYCLOPAEDIA is not
a reprint, revision, nor exten-
sion of any former publica-
tion, but it is an absolutely
new, fresh, authoritative and
up-to-date survey of the entire
field of human interest.
Anions the subjects treated
are Geography, History, Econ-
omics, Law, Theology, Medi-
cine, Hygiene, Mythology, the
Fine Arts, Philosophy, . Lan-
guages, Mechanical Arts,
Orthography, Religions, Litera-
ture, etc., arranged in alpha-
betical order so that the reader
can readily find the complete
and full information desired
on the subject in question.
Repetitions have been, care-
fully avoided, general subjects
N
-to
Increase Your
SALARY
By
Increasing Your
KNOWLEDGE
“Look It Up” in
Everybody's
Practical Encyclopedia
are treated fully, while there are thousands of short articles giving the reader the full rnformiffion
desired. , ]
It is modern in thought and essence, and the finest work of its kind now obtainable. It includes
every phase of discovery and invention, covers all epochs of literature, air forms'of government, all,
systems of religion—all the glorious achievements that have made history luminous and civilisation
possible. It is Reliable and Up-to-Date.
Comprehensive articles on Australia, England, Egypt, France, Germany, India, Italy, New Zealand,
Japan, the Chinese Empire, etc., are presented; also; separate articles on their capitals,"principal
cities, rivers and mountains, as well as their history, government and other interesting topics.
In all, over 8500 different subjects are treated, and there are over 850 illustrations.
The entire work, comprising twenty-six hundred large double-column pages, is set. up from
especially-cast type, and printed from new plates, from which impressions have never been previously
taken, thus making each page a beautiful example of the printing art.
The work is printed upon Bible paper, Very thin and opaque ; each volume contains 1300 pages, of
not over one and three-eighths inches in thickness. The work is bound in Seal Grain American Morocco
with round corners, sewn with fine linen thread, colored edges, heavy end sheets, side title and back-
Bound so flexible that it can
be opened flat clear back or
rolled like a music roll
bone embossed in gold, a rid bound perfectly flexible,so
that the volume can be taken between thumb and fingers
and the covers bent clear back without the risk of
injury, thus making it convenient and easy' to handle
without tiring. Works of this character containing no
more pages than this are usually bound in five or six
volumes, weighing from 25 to 30 pounds, whereas-the
entire weight of “Everybody's Practical Encyclopedia”
is less than five pounds.
Each set is enclosed in a. mat. tight-fitting Container,
insuring the 'delivery of the books in perfect condition.
Every family and every individual lias .peed of .a work
of this kind, hut price has been’the obstacle; we are,
therefore, pleased to be able to., place -this splendid En-
cyclopaedia on the market- at'a price within the' reach of
every person of moderate means.
If you would earn more, you must learn- more.
The publishers have now ready a finely illustrated
prospectus dealing with this special Encyclopaedia. It
will be sent post free to earl applicants who fill in the
application slip underneath.
Apply for this Booklet To-day. •
To THE STANDARD PUBLISHING CO. PTY. LTD,,)
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Please send me, free of charge, and without any
obligation on my part , full particulars' of your
Standard Practical _ Encyclopaedia, and your offer,
to deliver the complete work for a first payment\
of Ss. - • '
Name
(Please send, this form, or a postcard, mentioning ,
Bulletin 171214.) . ; IV~
Address


JOin. Desk Fan,
SILENT,
EFFICIENT,
RELIABLE.
'-i
J2in, Desk Fan.
DESK,
CEILING and
WALL FANS.
STOCK TYPES OF
DIRECT CURRENT FANS.
m
J6in. Desk Fan.
Australian Metal Co. Ltd.
40-2 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY,
172-6 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
Gilbert Place,
ADELAIDE.
The Ideal Xmas Gift.
A Camera
from Harringtons’
| lOR a Gift to be Ideal it must be a continuous
i source of pleasure to the recipient, and nothing
; fulfils this requirement more than a Camera.
j PHOTOGRAPHY can be practised just as
\ cheaply as one’s purse demands. You can
; purchase an Ensign Camera at Harringtons’
) for 5/*- or 10/-, that will take really excellent
pictures.
EACH Camera sold is guaranteed, and packed
in a box with a complete book of simple instruc-
tions that a child can understand.
EVERY owner of a Camera from Harringtons’
is TAUGHT PHOTOGRAPHY FREE, either
personally or by correspondence.
Box Form Ensign Cameras, 5/-, 10/-, 12/6,
17/6. Magazine Cameras at 7/-, 9/-, 15/-,
21/-. Folding Plate Cameras, suitable for
hand or stand work, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 52/6.
Folding Daylight Loading Cameras, 25/-,
45/-, 65/-, upwards.
All Models of Kodaks and Brownies,
• All Cameras fully described and illustrated
in our big catalogue. SEND FOR ONE NOW.
386 George Street, Sydney.
>•
w
ill
Also at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.; WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Friend— PEDIC POMADE for THE HEAD
Strikes infesting vermin dead. One applica-
tion destroys vermin, kills nits, heals sores, cures
ringworm, and makes the hair grow thick and
curly. Kills lice on live stock.
Sydney Agents: Talbots, 206 George Street;
and Washington Soul. Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, or posted from J. Brin, Chemist,
Kast Malvern, Vic.—l/2, 2/3, 3/9, and with Nit
Tomb, fin. pxtra.
Tjj URING the Summer a most pleasant,
refreshing, invigorating Tonic Bever-
age may be made by adding a few drops of
Phos to a glass of cold water. Though
Phos is, primarily, a children’s tonic, yet
weary adults should always keep a bottle
handj 7 . Get it now, and don’t be without
it when the hot, fatiguing days come round
Sold in shilling- bottles. If hot obtainable
locally, send 1/3 in stamps to the proprie-
tors.
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
K. 0.: Have read your screed about Free-
trade. Now, are you willing that every yacht in
the race shall start without any time allowance;
that every horse in the Melbourne Cup shall carry
the same weight_;rthat "the 9st. pug. and the 16st.
pug. shall meet; th® the gunboat shall tackle the
Dreadnought; and, above all th’ngs, that you shall
receive the same images as the man who does similar
work in Calcutta or Canton ? If so, you are a Free-
trader. If not, you are a fraud... .J.M.M. (Erskine
\?He, Kialla West): Probably you are aware, if you
have any information at all, that there is a censor-
ship now. Incidentally, sign your full name next
time you write..,.J. P. Marks: You ask, in faint,
dim'pencil: “What has become of The Bulletin’s
White Australia Policy?” Well, The Bulletin
expounded the old policy in its leading article of
November 26 and in the first “Plain English-” on
December 10. Can’t you read, or are you a lunatic,
or what is the matter with you?....Ye Pedagogue:
Write your complaint to the Sydney paper you term
“Mary Ann’s Bible.” Address it that way; any
postman will deliver the letter. .. .Gisborne Sub-
•scriber: All right; good enough. .. .D.A.D.: The
player must nominate the colored ball he intends to
try to p0t.... Simon: The stanza runs:—
A meteor shot across the sky,
Brief blaze of dazzling light!
And evermore aware was I
How dreary was the night.
It occurs in “Lost Light,” by Harry Morant, p. 58,
“Bushman and Buccaneer” (out of print)....
,-Y.Y.1.8.: Your war-poem inews piteously on the
doorstep. Please call and take it away in a basket;
it is costing us Id. per day in milk. If it is not
claimed within six days it will be drowned to pay
expenses. ... F. I. M.: We applaud your sentiments,
but the poem is gone in the feet. . . .T.0.T.: The
office rule is to return without comment or derision
all unacceptable manuscripts which are accom-
panied by stamps. Cannot now remember whether
your returned contributions were good or bad.
Evidently they were not good enough. ... Bellerive:
It is almost as good as a pitched battle:—
A DOUBLE TRAGEDY.
Within an alley crib a drunkard’s
Wife did awaiteth his return ;
A ruthless fiend whom for grog
Her fervent love did spurn ;
From grog and sin he staggefed in
With a cruel and sinister frown,
Whirled a bottle above her head
And brutally struck her down.
Liz, he gasned, ’twas of no avail,
Her span of life was o’er,
Blood from her shattered temple oozed
And trickled across the floor.
Awestricken at his fearful crime
He grasped a razor from a shelf,
Bared his throat to the fatal steel
And fiercely slew himself.
....M.0.: We like best the part where you describe
the young German doctor’s work in the field: “He
went from trench to trench, mending arms, setting
legs, and pronouncing life extinct or otherwise.”
But you’re wrong in one particular: Life is only
pronounced extinct by newspaper reporters Isabel
F.: Brief as your song is, it contrives to be dull and
partly illegible before it ceases Errant: It misses
by a respectable margin J.A.G.: May be able to
place the river, but we can’t place the poem. .. .Lily
N.: Artificial. . . .Lincoln W.: Returning MS. . . .G.B. :
Very sweet and all that sort of thing, but the girl
by the river has been lingering there ever since
song was invented... .Ankarri: Neither gets home.
Victor K.: You are not alone. The nimble
shilling has now to run for its life from people
who, until lately, would have scorned to trip it up
—at least, while anybody was looking G.M.J.:
100 late with your marching song. The late-rising
bugler who pursues the marching army for miles in
a cab, and is heard far behind sounding the reveille
just before it halts for lunch, rarely makes a
success of things Earldgyth: Sorry to have to
discourage a stranger, but there doesn’t appear to
be a shred of reason why you should write verse
Comet: Du 11... .R.M.V.: Unsuitable again. As the
weeks reel by you accomplish the apparently im-
possible feat of becoming more and more unsuitable.
Common Sense: Unfortunately, no W.H.G.,:
Work on, if you feel that way; but it is too early
to judge you,.. .Stone E. B.: Very ponderous humor.
.. . .Venture: Go on admiring the scenery. Don’t
write about it 1.E.C.: Sincere work, but the
theme is old, and you haven’t enough skill to make
it worth print.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Rene L. :■ Joke almost imperceptible ; drawing stiff.
....Elliot M.: All we can say is that your whole
art life lies before you Tom G. (M.L.) : Both
unsuitable. .. .E.F.F.: It gives us no idea.... Harry
II.: Two misses.... Gee: You are a poor draughts-
man, and the ideas don’t scintillate M. J.H.:
Nothing in it. . . .Stan L.: Almost anyone could have
hatched those ideas Dan L.: Far-fetched and out
of date.... Ghost; Foolishly feeble thing with a dash
of impropriety about it Bugler: It won’t do.
Last post. .. .H.A.T;: (a) The drawing is all wrong
and superfluous, and we refuse to have it on the
premises. (6) He was returned for Northampton in
1880, but refused to take the oath, and claimed to
be allowed to affirm under the Parliamentary Oaths
Act. After many rows in the Commons he gained
his point in 1886.... Saltbush: That jest has a tall
family tree..
“Kola” The disastrous drift from the
country parts of Victoria to congested Mel-
bourne continues apace. In fact, it con-
tinues like blazes. Hugh Mackay cost Bal-
larat many thousands annually when he
moved his big machinery factory to Mel-
bourne. Thompson’s foundry is the life of
Castlemaine. In fact, it is Castlemaine.
Now it is going. Alston, of the windmills,
had a big factory at Warrnambool. It is on
the south bank of the Yarra now. Wain-
wright and Faulkner have shifted their boot
factory from the same town to Collingwood.
The old War’bool meat-preserving works are
shut. A near-by pearl-barley mill is dead.
There were four flour mills in the district
once—two at .Warrnambool and one each at
Mortlake and Terang. All are silent. The
Merri River used to be odorous of fell-
mongeries and tanneries. The smells have
all vanished, and Melbourne is the richer by
them. The chief reason for all these trage-
dies is, of course, the railway freight on raw
material, which appears to be adjusted ex-
pressly to ruin country industries.
“Rooined”: The seaside seems to have a
dreadful name amongst the cautious type
of domestic. Our stipendiary slie-wowser
flinched when the wife broke it to her that
we had taken a furnished cottage for a
month in a Sink of Iniquity; but, although
she braced up like a heroine and came with
us, she has not yet ventured down to the
sea-front, though urged to for her health’s
sake. She seems to have an idea that, if
she shows her nose down by the breakers,
she will be seized and carried off at enorm-
ous expense by one of the rakes who, in
actual fact, go up and down ceaselessly,
with their hair glued down behind their
ears, in hopes that some day some girl may
take notice of them. And, all the time, our
Good Plain Girl, who could only attract
-“passing notice by wearing tights and ring-
ing a bell, sits and shudders in her lonely
kitchen. What staggering miscalculations
the Good Plain Girl does make !
The Mitchell Library (Sydney) recently
became possessed of a gruesome reminder of
the barbarities of the early gaolei's of Botany
Bay. On rising ground at the back of
Goulburn a gallows and a gibbet were erected
in 1832. Two men, prisoners of the Crown,
condemned for the murder of their overseer,
were hanged hei’e, and afterwards, for the
encouragement of the others, the corpses
wei’e suspended in chains upon a pole about
30ft. high. When Governor Bourke first visited
that part of the country, in 1833, he ordered
what remained of the ghastly exhibition to be
cut down. W. R. Govett (of “the Leap”),
a surveyor in the service of the Government,
was present when the oi'der was given. The
remains, chains and all, were buried at the
f*ot of the gibbet. Some 10 years ago the
grave was discovered by accident, and a man
with dreadful tastes raised up one skeleton
and had its photograph taken, and the
Mitchell Library has secured a print of this
memento of the “culture” we have left behind
us.
“Breaker” Morant, court-martialled and
shot for killing prisoners and others in the
Boer war, gets a passing reference by one
who says he was there, in “Bill: a Bush-
man,” an alleged autobiography just
published. Bill, who represents himself as
an Australian liard-case from wayback,
tells of his own various villanies with entire
lack of reserve; but he has nothing to say
against the sentence on Morant, whose
sergeant he says he was:—
The shooting- of the missionary was a bad business.
Morant first shot him as he sat in his Cape cart, andf
then sent me in charge of a party of six men, as a
mark of respect, to carry him to his grave! It was
away out in the Basuto Hills that it happened, on the
other side of the Splonk in, We carried him to the
mission camp, and there his friends sang hymns
and drank wine and ate cake. Then my men carriedi
him down to his grave, surrounded by thousands of
BasutoS, men, women and children, all wailing and
mourning for him. The Germans that were there'
sang another hymn or two and read a service, while
we stood at attention. Then we all went back to-
the mission again, and after more wine and cakes
we marched off to our camp.
The shooting of the missionary was a “bad
bxismess” if it really happened. But,
willing as Boers and Germans were to
give evidence and get rid of the Bushveldt
Carbineers, and ready as the court-martial
was to convict, this must be said —it found
all parties not guilty on that charge. As
to the others, _ Morant and his mates did
kill. _ Authority called it murder. But
there is no reasonable doubt in the world
that, when Morant killed, he believed his
instructions were to take no prisoners; and
those _ instructions couldn’t have seemed
surprising to him considering the wild job
the Carbineers were set to, and the wild 1
country in which they worked.
ARGUMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Starke argued. .. .In reply Mr. Maearthur
argued. .. .Further argument took place regarding.
....It was also argued... .The case was adjourned
for further argument concerning. .. ..—Law report.
This is the Day of Argument!
Words are twisted and phrases bent,
Torn and mangled and bent again ;
Carefully balanced upon their head ;
“His Honor asked’’ and “counsel said”—
Till all is crooked that once was plain.
Days are wasted in argument.
Talk continues, and cash is spent.
Fresh each morning the lawyers rise,
Proving, carefully, green is blue —
It all depends on the point of view.
Oh, they buzz all day like a quart of flies!
Different stages of argument!
Cases from court to court are sent;
One court proves that the other's an ass ;
Lawyers argue on either side ;
Sense and reason go out and hide,
While costs pile up as the long hours pass.
We pay for this endless argument—
And back we come in the way we went;
For no one knows who is wrong or right.
And the net result of the costly talk
Is that lawyers ride while suitors walk,
Till, tired at last, they fall, bled white.
VICTORIA.
FRANK RADCLIFFE.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME
At the War
‘'Vv-
s
. *’Vu. w
• fr's:&±~-*sr/<Z •■*?&*>'■
sss
Ss^i
Si
.R-T-lr
itoat
-i-vstai:
'< -i
*5^V
VIA ’
refigC
&2S
(7
s*£
f
■</
?,K
s~-
\
I; /;•'.,(
L. -
77> > *''-y'yO
.. j r v m-\,
4,, '/ t -
'" .--v J c
i a f\y
**^l
_v
y§§
s
&
r.n-X*
M
•S*S
f - i>>
A
yy
s \
/
m
/
JFIiS
wm
/
5 m
€m
v
*»»
sft
yw
>S
SfKK
£
‘M
1
5«
(( W/t
m
r
\
O t_ / ffNpjA^
Cobra,” sft e Boot Polish
a
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Comes when homeward
Mails are due.
In his “COBRA’
Aeroplane
He will reach
The base again,
Brin o' in o' words
o o
Of cheer from those
Who are fighting
England’s foes.
Thus, before
The set of sun,
One more shinin
is done.


Solid Silver Hand Mirror,
hand embossed, full size, 30/-
Cigar and Ash
pure Silver-plated on
Metal, 7/6.
Tray,
White
Jewel Casket, pure Silver-plated, richly
bossed. Size Sin. x Sin. £2.
Salad Bowl and Servers. Pure Silver-
plated Mounts. A 1 Quality. Handsomely-
decorated Floral China, 25/-
Toilet Pincushion, Watch
Stand and Ring Holder,
pure Silver-plated, 10/6.
Postage Paid
on all Goods.
Honey jar, pure Silver-plated,
7/6.
XMAS GIFTS
for Everybody.
Just the most practical and
acceptable ideas. We have
thousands of others in our
GIFT BOOK. Write for a copy.
Specimen Vase,
pure S i 1 v e r-plated
Nickel Silver, hand bur-
nished, gilt lined.
6in ... 10/6
Tin 12/6
Bin 15/6
Rose Bowl, handsomely hand em-
bossed, g'ilt lined, with gilt gauze, mounted:
on Kbonv Plinth. 4in., 50/-; Gin.,
60/-
Gent.’s Solid Silver Plain Con-
cave Military Hair Brushes, Sil-
ver-drawn Bristles, in Silk-lined Morocco
Case, full size, £2, £3, £3/107-
Shaving Cup, pure Silver-plated,
richly engraved, gilt lined, hignly
burnished, 13/6.
Scent Pump,
Solid Silver Mount
Handsomely Em
bossed, Cut Glas:
Bottle, 20/-
Smaller Sizes,
Gent.’s Automatic
Razor Strop, pure Silver-
plated, richly embossed,
13/6.
Sauco Goat, pure Silver-plated
A 1 Quality, Beaded Edge, Em
bossed Handle and Feet, 25/-
Postage Paid
on all Goods.
Manicure Set, Solid Silver Mounts. Cut
Glass Powder Jar. Complete in Silk-lined Case,
807-817 George St.,
SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS,
Opp. Railway Station
SYDNEY.
/
. 'Vw-V Af
L
H”
-v
*W
IT
i
HycsL
THE HYGIENE OF THE HOME !
Despite all modern safeguards, commons' nse is often set at
naught. The careful housewife who studies the security of
her Home should see that
Hycol
Disinfectant
is used throughout it regularly.
Hycol breathes purity and cleanliness —for no
disease germs can possibly live in its influence. The
floors, the sinks* the drains* lavatories and waste-
pipes should be constantly flushed with Hycol—the
most potent preventive of disease.
During the hot weather a few drops of Hycol mixed
with water for flushing and cleansing makes an
excellent deodorant.
Directions for use on every package.
Hyeel is NON-POISONOUS, NON-IRRITANT,
find is TWENTY TIMES STRONGER as a
germ-killer than Carbolic Acid,
Of ill High-Class Chemists and Storekeepers, in Bottles or Brums.
For further particulars apply to H. A, REEVES,
Q,P.O, Box 2499, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NON -POISONOUS
NON-IRRITANT..
m
A POWERFUL
DISINFECTA
ODO
ISEPTXC"
AndaßD CO-EFF'OtN^
O', po". '.'.ltvTWO*
(8-20 =
<Ab
yypV' “‘ ll - k
. . BRANCHES
Aussl3(Ao» f r ia) . SroiWi;
Bordeaux. Ulcotra, C*!* T" ’
Porh»n ( Ceno* CUssoW.
K»r?i a/>d Pari 5 —^


Sir Luka White.
Sr. Laiutorv Ronald.
Mr. Hall Caine.
Mr. Henry Arthur Jones.
Madame Sarah Grand.
Mr. E. F. Benson.
Sir F. Milner.
Hr. 3. W. Leader, fi.A.
What do you find best to keep you in good health ?
SOME DISTINGUISHED PEOPLE RELATE THEIR EXPERIENCE.
“ I HAVE given Sanatogen a fair
I trial. My experience confirms
the medical opinion there is no
longer that feeling of fatigue which
one previously experienced, but
there follows from its use a distinc 4-
restorative effect.”
“ Q ANATOGEN seems to me a very
O valuable food and nerve tonic,
I have several times taken a course
of it when I have been run down,
and always with good results.”
m
John Eenii.
‘ C i r
D JOHN
BKNN is
deri v i n
111 u c
benefit
from Sanat-
ogen.”
tx cr:
M
u TV/lY experience has been that, as
IVJL a tonic nerve food, Sanat-
ogen has on more than one occasion
done me good.”
]\cuui Gumj
“ I FIND Sanatogen an excellent
® tonic.”
“ | HAVE been taking Sanatogen,
1 and think that it has decidedly
helped me to get through the ex-
tremely arduous work that I have
had to do during the past few
months.”
SANATOGEN has done every-
thing for me which it is said
to be able to do for cases of nervous
weakness and exhaustion. I began
to take it after nearly four years’
enforced idleness from extreme
ill-health, and now (after only four
months) I find myself able to enjoy
both work and play again.
“ Qir FREDERICK MILNER was
O much run down from over-
work when he took Sanatogen, and
it certainly did good. He has more
than once sent supplies to poor
people, run down from illness or
overwork, and it has invariably
proved successful. It seems both to
nourish and give strength.”
“ | HAVE for two months been
I suffering from a rather severe
attack of Congestion of the Lungs.
I am now recovering and rapidly
regaining strength, which I attribute
in a great measure to my having
taken Sanatogen twice daily for
some weeks.”
“ O ANAT-
O OGEN
promises,
when you
are run
down, to
pick you
up. It does
so.”
Rev. Father Bernard Vaughaa.
Sanatogen can be obtained of all Chemists
from 2/6d. per tin.
Nestles
C o ndensea
MilX
to J^vn^
fzfypmxnffl)
The
Housewife’s Book
Containing
THE BEST HUNDRED
COOKING RECIPES
ISSUED.
Posted free to any address on
application to
NESTLE’S
26 KING STREET. SYDNEY
to
A
mu
*>>>>>
Ic-cW/
coll
MX
V'
S S§
m
«*»
%
Nil*
3*if,M(?iArt©
For Health
For Happiness
For Handy
Reference
Read the contents
0f...
“THE MILKY
WAY BOOK”
Free on application
to your Grocer,
or to
NESTLE’S
26 King Street
SYDNEY.
Free from Germs-
Excellent for every
Household


Hanking, Public Companies. &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—-
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M WOOD
H. D. HALL.
Security and Satisfactory
Interest
are the leading features of this Institution.
Deposits received from 1/- upwards.
Interest paid at 34% on first £2OO, and 3%
on excess to £5OO.
The Bank has 130 Branches and over 500
Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices.
DEPOSITS Guaranteed by the Government.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £385,000.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY
Hon. ROBERT PIIILP, M.L.A.
Hon. A. J. TPIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
the:
Australian jjank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000 000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PATD-UP (30th June, 1914), .. £1,195,591
RESERVE FUND .. ■. j . . £45,000
HEAD OFFICE: George & King 1 Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE:: 2 King William Street, E C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Slv, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon,
Esq.; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank N.
Yarwood, Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysagiit, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers-to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921. a
Subscribed Capital .£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 166,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893- specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq.; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.:
James Love, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up ..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital ..
£2,000,000 0 0
1,730,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
£5,730,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq. . . .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., and W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H S
Littleton: N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world
Bank of Hew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:'
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £1,000,000
Preference Shares . . . . . . 500 000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid- ’
»- up „ ;•„ 500.000
Uncalled Capital 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,601,608
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Colonial mutual fife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, O.M G.. M.L.C., Chairman,
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary,
Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA
ENGLAN D.
ORMONDE . .Geared Turbine
• -Triple-Screw. ,
OK WE TO . .Twin-Screw
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA ..
ORONTES . .
OMR AII
o l if i o!i' vitll Wi " e,^ s Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
hn,icf S Cabmes-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
t’W^ d V*<? ,,IS 6 Berth n°oms, Private Bathrooms,
iUectrie Lifts and Laundries.
iirn mml'-' fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
ORIENT S.N. CO., Cta.,
l2 Martin Place, Sydney.
15,000 Regd. Tons.
13,000
12.130
12,129
12,124
12,077
12,036
9,023
8,282
TO SAN FRANCISCO
BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERIC A or EUROPE, in connection
with all United States and Canadian
Railways.
Vi . • - ° I’mis oi can can
obtained at the Company’s Office.
(. The Finest and largest steamer trading between
Sydney and San Francisco.
February 3 Exhibition °P ens at San Francisco
ground Pacific Tours, returning from Vancouver
by Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line or via
Japan and China.
Steameis equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
*CAIRNS
(♦Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).,
NOIiTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Dee. 19.
PEREGRINE (3500 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Dec. 23.
Leaves Sydney Dec. 26.
CANBERRA (8000, Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Dec. 30.
Leaves Sydney Jan. 2.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
PEREGRINE (3500 Toijs).
Leaves Sydney Dec. 19.
QUEENSLAND COASTAL MAIL STEAMERS.
(Under contract with Commonwealth Government.)
s.s. COOMA (4000 tons) leaves Brisbane every Friday
at 10 a.m. for TOWNSVILLE, calling at GLAD-
STONE, FLAT TOP and BOWEN, connecting at
TOWNSVILLE with't.s.s. MOURILYAN for ports as
far as COOKTOWN.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
UNDER NEUTRAL FLAG
TO
AMERICA and ENGLAND.
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers, 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
VENTURA
SONOMA ..
-. I Dec. 19 | Feb. 13 | April 10 I June 5
- | Jan. 16 j Mar. 13 | May 8 | July 3
the San Francisco Panama Exposition is open
February-December, 1915. Tickets issued to London
via San Francisco and back by- any Suez Line.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
M
M
To PAPUA and PACIFIC ISLES.
To Papua.
To Solomon Islands.
To the New Hebrides.
SEND FOR PARTICULARS OF FARES AND SAILINGS TO
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD
• »
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
EW S
Established
OUTH WALES.
1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS
- - - . £3,500,000
- £2,500,000
- - - - £3,500,000
£9,500.000
The Hon. Sit Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
'1 he Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, 0.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.l*o.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
s<.. s „ h 'g^ E i^L» e ST. st, e c
Btal “' New ZM - "* p *>’“ uiii
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nee-n-
-tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the world
J RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Health, and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
I'or Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. THOEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. HESTON. Local Director.
Commonwealth
head office
JBanhßustralta
SYDNEY
Open
■for all
General Banking Business
in the
principal
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
11 , LeUer's t oTc'; e ed!t issued to any pa^ZVorw”’lf*t£i f Forel «" !">>* '- g otiated and ejected.
Exchange Business of every Banking and
Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits. Advances made against appjovlfd '
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at
Deposits
from
1/- t° £3OO 2000
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at
per annum
3%
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. Duvisj ,v i„t.„
— DEIsIS >ls MILLER, Governor.
PRUIPS’PATRIOTIC FUNP ART UNION
Under the Patronage of the Hon. R. W. RICHARDS, Lord Mayor of Sydney.
TOTAL VALUE OF PRIZES, £lOOO.
FIRST PRIZE, VALUE £6OO. SECOND PRIZE, VALUE £lOO.
NEXT PROCEEDS IN AID OF THE LORD MAYOR’S PATRIOTIC FUND.
to any” address in P ° St ° rdel '’ ° r StamPS f ° r the wiU forward Ticket
.. , D o not delay; help those dependent on our soldiers by buying tickets, and have the comforting
satisfaction of knowing that you have contributed to the Patriotic Fund, and assisted a noble caus e g
on 13 T th! SATURDAY > FEBRUARY 13, and results 5S
TICKETS, ONE SHILLING.
FROM ALL AGENTS, OR DIRECT FROM
Head Office: 715 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney. R. A. BARRY, Grand Secretary.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WARILDA (8000
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
Dec. 19 and Jan. 16,
1915. (Carrying First
and Second Saloon and
Steerage Passengers.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
■f
WOLLOWRA, Dec. 19.
. : i
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office
G. S. YUILL * CO. f LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE.
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND.
OPERATING THE LARGEST AND FINEST VESSELS
ACROSS THE PACIFIC FROM AUSTRALIA.
SAILINGS:
Particulars as to ports of call can be
obtained at the Company’s Office.
*Triple-Screw Steamer, fitted with Cabins cle luxe en
suite, Bedstead Rooms, Nursery, Laundry, Electric
Lift, t Twin-Screw Steamer.
Panama Pacific Exhibition opens at San Francisco
February, 1915.
AROUND PACIFIC TOURS, returning from San
Francisco by Union S.S. Co.’s Royal Mail Line or
via Japan and China.
Steamers fitted with AVireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,”
“ Ulimaroa,"
“Riverina,”
“Westralia,”
“Wimmera,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
, Fitted with AVireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND TOUTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
"|"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £645,634 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,476 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 79,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, Lonoo.i,
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
o
&
maita
wn©
RALI
sr


M
Get Them
To-Day.
If you want stylish, well-made and
comfortable footwear, get a pair
of ABBEY SHOES to-day and
have comfortable feet.
The illustration depicts our very
latest model, *a Choice, All-Patent
Derby Bal 32/o
Also in highest-grade Tan Willow
Calf 33 / 6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
/
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best anu
cheapest I have ever used.” . , .
“Arabis” Egyptian Ilenna has the largest sale ol
any Hair Stain'on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive v-ui. Look for the signa*
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia-
l».
2*
mm.
•M
x\-
hihmil
ICg
2E
Hello, another
Xmas Gi/t!
More Rubbish-
The Onoto Ten
is the Sensible
Xmas Present ,
Hurrah, a sensible gijt at last!'
A Gift that will
be appreciated
The Onolo Pen
Think of the sta ks of useless presents that wi'l be given this Christmas.
Don't add to them. Give a practical \ resent—GlVE an Onoto.
It costs but twelve shillings and will give
more pleasure than nxiny a more costly
present. Onotos may be had in more ex-
pensive forms, but it is the case that is
different, the pen its eh is always the same,
always perfect, the cheapest as ihs dealest.
It starts writing at once and goes on writing
all the time with never a halt. Attd the
ink comes out oj one spot only , at the end
of the nib— and only in the act of writing.
You cannot give a more useful, charm-
ing and efficient pies nt. —Y-S#
Onoto
—the Sell-tilling Safety Fountain Pen, for Xmas.
To be obtained at all stationers, jewellers
and stores, price 12/-, and in a variety of
more elaborate styles for presentation pur-
Booklet about the Onoto Pen free
on application to —Thos. Db I .a Rue & Co.
Ltd., 161, I’.unhill Row, London, E.C .oi
the Australasian Representatives, Normar
Baker & Longhurst. 50 York St., Sydney
'X
\
m
V
' <K % :
;n
.m-
Remember ! —the
name BIRD'S has
stood for P.r.ty
for over 75 years.
BIRD’S JELLIES are in
a class by themselves!
In the form of a fine powder,
therefore easiest to prepare.
Perfectly clear!- with brilliant
beautiful colours which are a
delight to behold!
—They have the flavor of
the real fresh fruit.
Their high quality and
superiority are apparent the
moment you taste them.
Birds
Crystal i/ci/y
Dissolves instantly ! Sets firmly
Sold in pint and quart pk'.s-Jmany flavors.
If any difficulty in
obtaining, write to W. C. Douglas-, 53, Liverpodl S.reet, Sydne
y-
-54 SW
Hotels. Ac.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accomii-odation in Victoria-
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 1G - per day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY Al' TEE-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and- night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the bumiing.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
The GRAND HOTEL
WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND.
WELLINGTON’S LEADING HOTEL.
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT.
TARIFF FROM 12/6 PER DAY.
E. L. CHAFFEY, Proprietor.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE. Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all
cases of Intern .l and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold bv ANDREW MUItPIIY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
Price, 3/- ner box, or a course of 8
Boxes for £l. Post free under
plain cover.
On Sale at all Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
Electrical Accessories
SOLE AGENTS for Dorman $ Smith Ltd.; Nalder Brc
Haes 8 Eggers Ltd.
. § Thompson Ltd.; Igranic Electric Co. ltd.
Os.
ssi
c\
D.gS. Handle Type Fuse
Mounted or unmounted, 50
to 3000 amps, for 600-volt
circuits. Also in Ironclad
and Watertight Boxes.
ss&
AH kinds of Switchboard, Electrical
Indicating and Recording Instruments,
Insulation Testing Sets, Automatic
Accumulator Switches.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
ADAMS’ IGRANIC
M
M
■Leaflet No. 20S. Fig. 3. /
STARTING RHEOSTAT, with Worm
Slow-Speed Gear and with Cover removed,
showing Worm Gear,
Sole Australian Representatives a
HAES & EGGERS LTD., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney


- i sg£
-|V%
Give Kim
Cig'ars—
A gift of good tobacco to a friend binds
him yet closer. —The New Proverbs.
If you are making a present to a friend,
give him Cigars. If you buy him a box
of “CARLTON’S” you will be assured
of getting Cigars tliat reflect your good
judgment. If desired, we will despatch
them, addressed to your friend, with a
card suitably inscribed. THE “CARL-
TON” CIGARS contained in presenta-
tion Cedarwood Box, 50 for r> o //-
Postage 9d. extra.
PIKE BROTHERS
Toowoomba
LIMITED
brisbans
Townsville
Send for a copy of tho new Issue of our Qommenwaalth e»tal9gu9 (Series fjy 3 ).
A Hot Weather Trouble Avoided.
TRUMILK (SKIM)
POWDER.
Place Powder on top cold water and beat with Egg Whisk for a minute. Result —
beautiful milk free from germs, suitable for all purposes.
NO MILK GOING SOUR. NO ICE NEEDED,
Ask your grocer for a small tin.
Queensland Agents; WEBSTER, & CO. LTD., Mary Street, Brisbane.
New South Wales Agents; FOGGITT JONES & CO. LTD., Sussex Street, Sydney.
IN BANANA LAND
As prophesied some nine months ago,
Father John Mimnagh, of Bundaberg, has
slogged his way through to the mayoralty
of that town. The late Mayor (a brother
Celt) challenged Alderman Father John to
resign and contest a seat. Father John did
so, and the late Mayor is now a useful
private citizen again.
“Lagani-Naino”: “Joan” (B. 26/11 /’l4)
tells us that she saw an Bft. green snake
climbing a gum-tree on the Dawson. Well,
that is quite the usual performance of the
northern and Papuan pythons. These worms
have been shot measuring 25ft. over all.
There may be thousands unshot even longer.
Anyhow, these constrictors are able to scoff
a fully-grown wallaby holus-bolus, without
inconveniencing themselves. When, they’ve
stowed the tucker amidships, they calmly
glide aloft on to a tree and are comatose
for weeks at a time, while the cargo gradu-
ally digests.
Kaiser William’s illness is understood to
be due to the heat of the northern mining
people’s language. The first months of the
year were none too prosperous; the last
have, on Ihe whole, been deadly. In 1913
to the end of November the State thought
it was shockingly treated when its dividends
ran to only £201,133. This year, for the
same period, _ the aggregate is down to
£125,406. Still William is getting credit
for more than he has done. Even the
Kaiser can’t knock out the market for gold,
and the gold districts of the North are
rather hungrier than the others. Charters!
Towers last month paid only £l2OO in!
dividends —a trifle more than it used to
spend on a single Saturday-night shout
when it was feeling really good.
“North Q.”: “Joan” (B. 26/IT/T4) is
wrong in thinking that the green snake,
common on the Dawson River, is the only
habitual tree-climber in Australia. On the
Bremer River, near Ispwicli, there used to
be several of them. The green whip-snake
of those parts was a frequent habitant of
the wild-cherry tree. The brown whip (cousin
of the green) was generally at home in the
willows. A greyish reptile, hbout' 4ft.
long and as thick as an ordinary lead pencil,
which was locally known as the “oak” snake,
seemed to spend most of his time imitating
the thin branches of the oak trees. The black
snake (red belly), which was very common,
I have seen climbing tall, straight gums.
Carpet snakes will go up any tree for a
feed of eggs, and, in fact, I believe the only
specimen of the tribe that will not climb a
tree is the death adder.
When the Australian fleet was born there
was a difficulty about securing Imperial offi-
cers. Many of them side-stepped it, in
spite of the attractiveness of the Australian
station, fearing loss of promotion, and, even
more, that the whole fabric would crumble
and leave them stranded. They got these
views from anti-Defence Australians, who
argued: (1). that the “absurd mosquito
fleet” would never get a chance to do any-
thing, and (2) that a disillusioned Com-
monwealth would soon go back to the hired-
navy policy. As things have turned out,
the Imperial officers of the Australian fleet
have had the chance of a century. They
have hardly been idle for 10 minutes since
the war began. The Sydney has accounted
for the world’s best-known warship. Terri-
tory has been seized right and left by other
vessels of the fleet. Meanwhile most of
the British fleet in home waters lies
in a state of jumpy inaction. In short,
Fate seems to have laid itself out to play
all the dirty tricks it knows on Australia’s
old anti-Defence party.
“W.”: It may interest “Cleveland” (B.
to know that Queensland
bananas, grown and packed by Europeans,
are landed satisfactorily in Perth; also
that immature fruit is more liable to damage
and decay tliirn ripe. The Chow has. lately
come into prominence as a curse to the
mango export trade also ; and the Cooktown
Chamber of Commerce has protested that a
railly extensive trade is being ruined bv
Chinese shipping immature fruit. Short of
shooting the Chow, only special legislation
will induce him to give up the practice.
Either will satisfy me. y
II.O.”: German William is a humorist
in on ® way—he has driven stout citizens to
legard Socialism as a means of saving the
Empire. In the smoking-room the other
morning was a burgher with four chins and
a ponderous front. “The Kaiser's time is
coming,” he boomed, glaring fiercely through
gold-rimmed pince-nez. “He’ll have to face
trouble at home; the Socialists won’t stand
this sort of thing much longer. He'll have
to answer to them! They’ll make him sit.
up!” The embonpoint addressed agreed,
and for the rest of the journey the two
spoke admiringly of the Tiger, as though it
were foster-brother to the Dove of Peace,
and in no way related to the Beast of
Revelation.
THE LEFT-OFF.
SQUATTER (reading menu): “Poulet braise a la Milanaisel What's that, waiter?”
WAITER (in hoarse whisper): “Yes teddy's roast fowl, sir.”
After steadily lumbering downhill for a
couple of years, the price of horseflesh is
climbing again; and instead, of being tram-
pled to death as soon as they declare them-
selves, buyers are now chasing round the
country 'looking for strong saddle animals-
As whites are ruled out and piebalds are
an offence, it is fairly obvious that most of
the buying is on War Office account.
“Don Q.”: There is an epidemic of
infantile paralysis in Brisbane, Ipswich and
Northern coastal towns, japd the- Health
Department says something will have to 1 re-
done to combat this disease. But the size
of the vested interests the Department will
bump against will give it a shock. The
cause of this paralysis is in some doubt, but
the most common theory is that the trouble
arises from lead poisoning. That’s where
vested interests come in. White lead is
almost universally used for paints in
Australia, wherefore kiddies clawing fences
and verandah railings are liable to get
samples of the poison into their system.
The Education Department recognises this
danger, and insists that no lead paints shall
be used on any school property. Even this
slight concession wasn’t obtained without a
struggle. What would happen if Premier
Denham introduced a Bill to prohibit the
use of red lead and white lead I don’t
know, except that several estimable citizens,
including myself, would die of shock.
“A. Corn”: “Albion” (B. 3/12/’l4)
attributes the scarcity of feed on the Out-
back stock routes during unfavorable seasons
to the narrow track on which stock are
forced to travel. Undoubtedly this is the
cause of much of the trouble, but I invite
“Albion” to cruise round one or two of
these highways when feed is scarce on
some of the runs, and when a little picking
is showing up. Squatters then sometimes
find the route wide enough to graze three
or four thousand sheep, provided there’s no
sign of a strange drover about.
Queensland’s Rhodes scholar for the year
is J. N. Radcliffe, an old Brisbane Grammar
School boy, yet not an old enough boy to be
a graduate. As usual, there wasn’t much
competition for the prize, which has utterly
failed to stir up general interest in the
schools. Cecil Rhodes’s idea was that
athletic prowess was to count for a lot in
the selected scholar. In young Radcliffe’s
case the athleticism runs to little more than
a good game of tennis, yet there is no reason
to doubt that he was the most suitable
candidate. Or, to be correct, the more
suitable, because there appear to have been
only two all told.
Queensland has been angling for Professor
Lowrie, the uneasy Scot who has accepted
and declined more jobs than any other
learned agriculturist in the world. The De-
partment bid up to £l3OO a year for him,
and would have gone higher, but Lowrie,
after having officially bossed the agriculture
of S. Aus. (twice), Maoriland and Westra-
lia, decided that it was about time he put
his theories into practice and filled his own
wheat-bags.
There is a scramble for the job of Under-
Sec. for Mines, to be available shortly
through the retirement of Alexander Rose
•.-Macdonald. Pretty well every mining
warden and ex-warden P.M. in the country
thinks he would fill the chair as well as the
next man, and you can’t move in safety
round Appel’s office for the strings that are
being pulled. The chief clerk scored heavily
the other day when a deputation of mining
M’s.L.A. came along to give him a lift; and
the chances at present lie that way.
“F.C.” : Apparently the war, or the fur-
nishing of expeditionary forces, or the need
of more office space, has persuaded the Cana-
dian Defence Department to clean out all
its dusty old pigeon holes. At any rate, my
father, now nearing his 88th birthday, lately
received from the Dominion Government a
cheque for lOOdol. and a medal for some
small part he took as major of the 4th Col-
chester Rifles during a raid away back in
3 866. In all the intervening 48 years not
a word of communication had passed.
Brisbane by Night.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She rests upon her verdant heights,
A proud and perfumed queen ;
Her river throws a thousand lights
That gem her robe with sheen.
Such as she is was starry Tyre
Who ruled of old the wave,
And lit afar with tower and pyre
A pathway t.o the grave.
Her future —shall her lover say?
Afar and famed and fair
I see her sweep from hill to bay
With tropic-scented hair;
The flame-flower drooping near her stream,
A lotus on her breast,
Her eyes aglow with subtle gleam
And vict’ry on her crest!
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, December 12, 1914.
My Dear Tiiabgomindaii,—
No Governor-General can be long away
from the main camp in these unpeaceful
times, I know, but I think it was more
than “urgent business” which accounted for
the hurried evacuation of this pious city by
their Exes. Don’t repeat this, Thargo-
mindah, but I think those women possessed
of seven (or more) missions in life had
something to do with it. Poor Lady Helen
was harried into presiding at a meeting
of every dry-as-dust society in the place.
The G.-G., being a mere impatient man. and
therefore less able to bear the strain,
escaped first. Her Ex. and the Blackwood
child followed him two days later. At
Toowoomba they were recaptured and led
round to more hospitals. I understand that
the graveyards are being reserved for a
future joyous occasion.
On Tuesday Premier Denham invited the
visitors to a jaunt on that trusty, or, rather,
rusty ark, the Lucinda. Australia’s chief
Governor escaped, but her Ex. and Lady
Doris attended. As picnics go, there was
nothing calling for special complaint.
Andrew Petrie, the veteran M.L.A., bore
with him a box of orchids grown by Mr.
Barthel for the distinguished guest, and
Mrs. South, on behalf of the Queensland
Silk Culture Society, gave her a hanky
(gent.’s size). It was a risky thing to do.
but peace prevailed. The silk was grown
or bred or whatever you call it in Australia,
then packed and carted and shipped to
England, and carted on to the factory and
unpacked and woven and nicely rolled up
and packed some more and shipped some
more and hauled back across the world to
Australia, where it was duly received with
wonder and reverence. Then the account
arrived and the money was sent out of the
country so that Australian workmen should
be preserved from undue affluence and
fatness and the leaning-up-against-a-post
thereof.
Wednesday morn saw Lady Helen giving
her nursing experiences to a bunch of
females at the National Council of Wimmen.
Same day she inspected the Grammar
Schools.
The pupils of All Hallows’ Convent held
their annual exhibition on Monday. As
usual, some exquisite needlework was
shown, and the exhibition of drawings and
paintings was also commendable. The
Governor-General’s lady was at the Convent,
and afterwards went on to the Lamington
Hospital.
For some weeks our tame scandal-mongers
(yes, my dear, we have one or two) have
been triumphantly snake-whispering that
Premier Denham’s elder daughter was
engaged to “a horrid German.” Well, she
isn’t. She is engaged to Major the Rev.
Richard Steacey, senior chaplain of the
Canadian forces, and rector of All Saints’
Church, Westboro, Ottawa. Now, how —
But, there, there ! What’s the use of being
angry.
Jean Ross Muhro and her brother, Crown
Solicitor Tom McCawlev, and his pretty
wife are holidaying in Sydney. The Peter
Murphys will go down some time next week.
Several weddings are promised for next
month. One concerns Dave Tait and Ethel
Willcocks; another is the affair of Miss
Mabel Woolcock, only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. W. Woolcock, and Mr. Burnard, of
Sydney. A new engagement that has come
to stir the four o’clock tea is that of Miss
Walsh, eldest daughter of Commander
Walsh, R.A.N.R., and Norman Pye, son of
Lieutenant-Colonel Pye, of Brisbane.
Among the many recently-returned Aus-
tralians who left the vicinity of Kaiser
Bill’s unpleasantness with some haste are
Mrs. Prentice, of Sandgate, and her family.
War broke forth when they were just about
to gather the joys of Paris by handfuls.
That settled the tour, and it’s doubtful if
they’ll ever forgive the prancing Prussian.
Almost every young mother in this place
has gathered up her brood and fled to the
surf or the mountains. Infantile paralysis,
that vile thing, has been bad this season.
In a case of this sickness a parent has only
the alternative of a dead child or a hopeless
and .life-long invalid. I don’t know what
the authorities are doing to fight this
disease, but if they are doing anything it’s
being kept abysmally dark. Meanwhile the
anxiety of parents is growing.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
__ A 50-year-old Courier told how Kahie-
Ivahie, a South Sea Islander, while
travelling on the Uncle Tom, fell somewhat
sick and found comfort in eating a “large
quantity of uncooked pig’s entrails.” He
died shortly after, whereupon a sympathetic
jury returned this verdict: “Died from the
natural visitation of God.” As the old
hymn says, “God moves in a mysterious
way.”


The MOWER for the Lawn,
Bowling Green or Golf Course
-
\ • v
wmm
■
m
THE COLDWELL “DEKj UNTABLE” CUTTER UNIT MOWER (as
illustrated) provides for every requirement necessitated in the cutting of tutting
and Bowling Greens, etc.
Fitted with large wheels, it can readily be removed from one position to another.
A noteworthy feature is the Interchangeable Cutter Unit, which can be attached
in less than a minute.
This Mower will appeal strongly to all requiring fine- and close-cut Lawns,
Putting and Bowling Greens.
Each Mower is Equipped with Extra Cutting Unit.
Size
Price
-/091
•UX9T
18in.
190/-
20in.
220/-
Write for our New, 300-nage Catalogue of Tools for the Farm, Home and
Workshop.
Proprietary Limited,
554=66 & 582=88 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SIEMENS
Crane Equipments
e
PflU
II; S’.;!£!s&«
FHfey*®
sBg£ ; ; 'i|j
B
m
Motors and Controllers for heavy duty crane service.
i
Let us tender to your requirements. We can
assure satisfactory service for you.
Siemens Bros. Dynamo
Works Limited.
Head Office —London.
Machine and Switchgear WorKss Stafford, England.
Cable and Telegraph WorKs: Woolwich, Condon,
Incandescent Camp WorKss Dalston, Condon.
Australian Offices: f -
-59 William Street, MELBOURNE.
42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY. i
A CHRISTMAS GIFT,
or, for the matter of that, any gift for
any occasion, should be worthy of the
giver* Among the hundreds of givers
this Christmas there are not a few who
could afford to give a good piano it
would make an ideal souvenir, for it
would last a lifetime* For such a
purpose could you choose anything
better than
A BROADWOOD PIANO
with two hundred years of value
wrought into its construction, and
every part of it BRITISH? Think it
over; think of the intense pleasure
you would give—you might do worse!
CASH OR EASY TERMS*
CALL AND SEE LATEST MODELS*
The British Pianoforte Depot Ltd.,
Temporary Showrooms- —3B Market Street, Sydney
(OPPOSITE HENRY BULL'S).
I Stand fox Truth
• **
* i \
• HMt.
B •*"'^" | ,«•»••*• *'
,W
r-' , ml ,„ ■""
*A
■•Mu
Standard History of the War
GET at the truth of this great War, and learn from our reliable*
clearly written and uniquely illustrated Standard History
why it all started, how it is being fought, and all
, about the men and the actions they are fighting. It's a
glorious story magnificently told.
An eight-page illustrated prospectus ol this authoritative
publication will he seni you post free and with absolutely
no obligation to purchase.
It will be sent by return if you use this coupon.
The standard
Publishing o? pty. ltd*
100 FLINDERS STREET.
MELBOURNE:.
M
&'<s•
0 s
*
4; ©* \>*nP^
jfrA* a
<W4& Ay
vv\ < Q> .
* fo"* ,s&!
s>ty
As?
‘ ’*s \3
■ V/
V
A <o-
■ V V
% *fc


Tricks. Puzzles, Jokes, Novelties.
Write for Njw Catalogue
—Post Free.
MM
THE PHANTOM CARD TRICK.
Five cards are shown. Anyone
mentally selects three. The five
cards are now dropped in a hat. Per-
former picks out the two cards not
selected. Someone puts hand in hat
to bring out the three selected cards,
JOKER'S SNAKE CAMERAS.
An imitation of a camera, from which a large snake springs out.
Post free, 1/3. Larger sizes, 2/- and 3/6, post free.
M
WIRE PUZZLES—AII Kinds.
Six different Puzzles for 2/-, post free, or
12, all different, for 3/6, post free.
M
M
but they have vanished, the hat being quite
empty. Very bewildering and easy to work.
Post free, with full instructions, Bd.
Handkerchief can be used instead of hat, if
desired. We can supply a set of 6 different
card tricks, in addition to the above, for
3/3, post free.
Our Speciality —THE JOKER’S NOVELTY PACKET,
containing
“The Joker’s Plate Lifter.”
“ The Joker’s Love Bond.”
“The Joker’s Squirt Camera.”
“The Joker’s E ectrlc Push Button.”
These Four Good Jokes for 2/6, post free.
Our New Catalogue, which is Post Free 3 is a Novelty in Itself.
H. L. HUTCHINSON LTD. —New York Novelty Co.
708-710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SIDNEY
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office, Sydney.
AVE SPECIALISE IN ALL KINDS OF TOYS.
(*u*u>v*
m
LJ?W.
THE TWO FRIENDS
Does your Horse know Solomon
Solution ? Its the greatest friend
he can have. In case of accident
—sprain, cut, sore shoulder or
back, girthgalls, etc., it is invalu-
able —and “a friend in need is a
friencl indeed.”
Solution
I,argejars 5/-from Chemists Stores,
aud Saddlers everywhere. Post Free
for 5/6 from
SOLOMON COX & SON,
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
THE FAMOUS
SCHEBLER
Carburetter
with Special Attachment
for FORD CARS
M
FORD OWNERS
can now have
a SCHEBLER
CARBURETTER
installed at a
minimum o f
expense, and
gain
MORE POWER,
SPEED and
FLEXIBILITY.
EASIER STARTING
QUICKER PICK UP
and
BETTER ECONOMY.
Price, as illustrated. £5/10/
Booklet and all particulars from
SOLE AGENTS—
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
GET A “PLUM” FOR XMAS
Vi!
For youf own shaving needs or as a present to your men friends
A f‘PLUM 99 RAZOR
will be simply ideal for Christmas. The merit of the “Plujn” is in the
blade. It has a keen cutting edge that makes shaving a real pleasure.
As practical tradesmen we know the edge a razor requires- to give
the best results —that’s why you can always depend on .a “Plum.”
SEND YOUR ORDER TO-DAY—lo76'Post Free.
We keep it in perfect order for two y§ars free of charge.
•*'. ' .
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/- fe
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/
All the Above Post Free.
This line makes a hpndsome present.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
©54
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS
LOTION.
QUICKLY REMOVES
SKIN ERUPTIONS . . .
ENSURING A
CLEAR COMPLEXION
The slightest Hash, faintest
Spot, irritable Bipiples, dis-
figuring Blotches, : obstinate
Eczema disappear bv‘ applying
SULPHOLINE
"Which renders the skin spot-
less, soft, clear, supple, com-
fortable.
BOTTLES 1/- and 2/9.
For 42 Years
SULPHOLINE
■Has been the Remedy for
ERUPTIONS
PIMPLES
REDNESS
PSORIASIS
ROUGHNESS,
RASHES
ECZEMA
SCURF
ACNE
BLOTCHES
SPOTS
ROSEA
Sulpholine is prepared tyy the great Skin Specialists—
J. PEPPER & CO , LTD., Bedford Laboratories, LONDON, S.E., Eng.,
and can be obtained direct from them by post or from
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removes the effect of Sunscorch.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
M
Works : Birmingham, England,
These series of
Pens neither sciatch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of "Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Burr.ETiN size. Price, 21s.
DIAMONDS REPUCEP ENORMOUSLY.
Never before in the experience of Aus-
tralia were so many Diamonds sold as
last' year. Our Sales were enormously
Well, we, some two years ago, took on a
Sole Agency calling for an enormous
output, and to live up to it we decided
to offer Diamonds at merely a broker’s
commission above cutters’ landed cost.
The first year it did not pan out too
well, the second year the very large output
told, and so we are continuing the experi-
ment for another year.
3 Fine Diamonds, set in Platinum, choicely cased,
£5/10/-
Choice Aquamarine and Diamonds, set in Platinum,
choicely cased, £5/5/-
AVo only sell the higher grades of Diamonds, but our prices are lower than those of London.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery Hi
in Sydney,
PLAIN FIGURES—CASH ONLY.
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
Ask for
at the
Use Horlick’s Malted Milk —
the invigorating Food-Drink
in cases of Mental Exhaus-
tion, impaired digestion, in
fact all nerve troubles.
M
V “i <)w 'o)v3
U
Horlick’s
Soda Fountain.
Sample will be sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps,
Write Hutchinson & Co., 26,
Jamieson Street, Sydney.
N.S.W.
M
Hi
aj
!!(&£
If Men Knew How To
Lather
They Would Shave With
More Comfort.
COLGATE’S
SHAOIWC STICK
The action pf the lather on the beard is to remove the oily
covering on each hair. Then the water can get at the hair
to soften it. So the one logical place to mix the lather is on
the face, where every motion of the brush not only works the
lather up but works it in. This Colgate Way —without
the cup makes SOLD EVKimVHKKK -If you wish a trial size-
unnecessary tHe enough for a month’s use —use the Coupon.
“mussy” rubbing-
in with the fingers
COUPON.
Chipman, Ltd.,
54Ma:garet Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me a trial size of Colgate’s
Shaving Stick, in a handsome n'ckelled box.
I enclose 2d. in stamps to defray cost of
packing and postage.
Name
Address
M
THE BEST
is
YELLOW
ASTER
TOBACCO
Successful
Tooth Cleaning
Sold by local
Druggists Jr Stores.
Made by
F.C. Calvert & Co
Manchester, Kng.
should be more than a mere
phrase, —it becomes actual
fact for the people who use
i
a
CARBOLIC^


CHRISTMAS
THE beautiful de-
sign and up-to-
date usefulness of
the G.E. “Uni Set”
appeals to every
woman.
The “ Uni Set” is a
complete Electric Cook-
ing Outfit, and enables
a dainty dinner or
“ H urry-up bite ” to be
prepared at a moment’s
notice. Let us demon-
strate it to you.
<£=Cv
5*4
W.
3
u
w
w
A
I'l
mm
For Mother
Nothing is too good for Mother, so give
her the best of all electrical gifts—a
Uni-Set Combination
Electric Cooking Outfit
which will help convert much of her heavy
housekeeping into light housekeeping.
With this set she can boil vegetables, cereals and
eggs; percolate coffee; brew tea, warm baby’s
milk, fry and prepare all kinds of chafing dish
products. You can buy any one or all of the
various parts of the set at your convenience.
THE “Uni Set ”
device consists of
an Electric Disc
Stove oi graceful lines,
and four cooking utensils
of pleasing appearance
—-a double boiler for
cooking cereals, etc. a
Chafing Dish —a Tea
Samovar —and a Coffee
Percolator. The entire
set is of uniform design
and is attractively
nickelled.
9
0
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
BRISBANE (Q.): Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.),
Ltd., Edward and Charlotte Streets.
M
Agents
Cor. Queen and Little Collins Streets,
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
wewcsießmr
RECORDS
12-INCH RECORDS, 15/-
CARUSO—
-2-052076 “Rigoletto”—
Parmi veder le lagrime.
MELBA—
-03363 The Old Folks at Home.
TETRAZZINI—
-2-053040 L’Eco (The Echo).
CEARA BUTT-
-03368 (a) A Youth Once Eoved a Maiden,
(b) The Tears That Night.
SMIRNOFF —
052410 Se il mio nome (“Barbiere di
Siviglia”).
BATTISTINI—
-052310 Le Soir (Gounod).
FRIEDA HEMPEL—
-033114 Ah! vous dirae-je maman.
10-INCH RECORD, 10/-
TITTA RUFFO—
-7-52029 Suonno e Fantasia.
12-INCH RECORD, 17/G.
GERALDINE FARRAR AND HOMER—
-2-054044 Alla Capanna Andiamo.
12-INCH RECORDS, 12/-
KUBELIK—
-07988 Spanish Dance (No. 8 op. 20).
DE GOGORZA (Baritone)
2-062001 A Granada.
Obtainable from accredited “H'.M.V.” dealers
everywhere. Record lists, instrument catalogues
and name of nearest accredited dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET- SYDNEY.
The World’s
Most Gifted
Operatic Artistes
at Your
Command !
CARUSO.
1
Juft a Drop of
But what a wealth of
Concentrated Power it possesses!
You’ll Travel Faster on this Fine Fuel.
Ask for Booklet:—“ What about Petrol ? ”
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand.
70333


Arnott’s Milß Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDRENS FOOD.”
Hotels. &c.
SAN FRANCISCO.
.534
SUTTER
STREET
THE COSMAR,|
l—| IGIT-CLASS Family Accommodation. Every
comfort and convenience. Centrally located.
Oars pass door. Recommended by Messrs. Fricke
and Brindle, of Melbourne. Make Reservations
now. Rooms, with meals, 10/- a day.
M's. W. D. IIAMMERLY, Proprietor.
Public Notices.
ELECTRICAL RELAYS.
T H JLo Proprietor of Australian Letters Patent No.
7753 of 1913 for “improvements relating to elec-
tncal relays’ desires to make arrangements by way
of license or otherwise on reasonable terms with a
view of the invention being worked commercially in
Australia. For information apply to —•
WALTER S. BAYS lON & SON, Patent Attorneys,
441 Collins Street, Melbourne.
GOARDA BEANS
The new Edible Vegetable wonder from the
Solomon Islands. Grows 3to 6 feet long. One bean
sufficient for a large family meal. Now is the time
to plant. Full instructions given. Send for photo.
Circular free. Seeds can be obtained, 5 for II-
Stamps or postal note. J. M. Morris, 485 Leichhardt
Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
Packet of Lint, Free Six Yards
* Surgical Bandage, and How to Get It.
Cut this out and send to us with 1/6 for 1 tin of
Beat-all Ointment, and we will sent, post free, 1 tin
of Beat-all Ointment and the Lint and Bandage.
BEAT-ALL OINTMENT is indispensable for cuts,
burns, sores, old wounds, sunburn, skin troubles,
piles, and should be in every home.
BEAT-ALL OINTMENT CO., 24 Bond St.. Sydney
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOStI
Twice Daily, at 2.30 and 8.
Twice Daily, at 2.30 and 8.
TIV O L I THEATRE, SYDNEY
THE TIVOLI FOLLIES.
ISABELLE D’ARMOND. JACK CANNOT.
MONTGOMERY WOLF. AL HERMAN
EDDIE MARTYN. •
ALVARETTO, REGO & STOPPIT
KLARDY BROS.
Box Plan at Theatre and Nicholson’s.
’Phone 9942 for Reserves.
' I von
THEATRE,
.MELBOURNE
J. W. RICKABY.
MOONEY & HOLBEIN. ALFREDO
THE ASCOTS.
NOBLE & BROOKS AERIAL LESTERS
SOHO TRIO. ROBERTS & LESTER
LA MAZE TRIO
liox Plan at Glen’s. PRICES: 4/-, 3/- 2/- 1
H R 15 t~» * lM AJl5s r v ’ sYD N E V
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
SATURDAY NEXT. AT 8.
YET ANOTHER GAIETY SUCCESS.
THE GTEL ON THE ErLM.
A really excellent skit upon the cinematograph,
based on the happiest farcical ideas.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
OPEN
N
o w
nightly.
THE WHITE CITY,
THE WHITE CITY,
the: white city,
Sydney’s,. Premier Pleasure Resort.
MAGNIFICENT BALLROOM,
GIGANTIC FERRIS WHEEL,
THE MOUNTAIN SLIDE,
A TRIP WITH GULLIVER,
PERPLEXITY PALACE
- THE SCENIC RAILWAY,
AND COUNTLESS NEW ATTRACTIONS.
Rozelle District No. 1 Band.
The Aerial Bartletts.
Nightly, 7 to 11; Saturdays, 2 to 11 p.m
Admission, Sixpence.
T. H. ESLICK, C.E., General Manager.
DA LACE THEATRE, SYDNJ
Direction ALLEN DOONE.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
ALLEN.-.DOOXE and his popular Company in
SWEET COUNTY KKRW
fTbe Irish Play of the Century
Prices: J/W2/6 1/- Early Door Gallery and Stal
6 1. extra. Early Door Gallery, Saturdays and Holida’
1/- extra. Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales White Ro^
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
lessee FRANK MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
FRED NIBLO & JOSEPHINE COHAN
And J. C. Williamson's Popular Comedy Players,
in another George M. Cohan Coniedv, ’
ROADWAY JONKS.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
A HEI-I* II i 1' II HA T li E. S Y I) NH V.
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF I-lER FORBIDDEN
MARRIAGE.
Commencing WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 23.
George Willoughby Ltd. will submit the grand,
spectacular and down-to-date PANTOMIME,
THE BABES IN THE WOOD.
Popular Pantomime Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
THE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES.
* In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The finest IPicture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
THE KING’S THEATRE, .MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, DECEMBER 19.
William Anderson presents a Brilliant New Version
of the Popular Pantomime,
SINEAD THE SAILOR.
Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plans at Allan’s.
|_| ICR .MAJESTY'S THEATRE. .MELBOURNE.
1 ■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, DECEMBER 19.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present their Pantomime
Extravaganza,
C J N J) E R EL LA.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 65., 45., 2s. and Is.
TH EAT R E It OYA L, MELBOURNE.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, I/rn.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present
MURIEL STARR
in
THE CHORUS LADY.
FOR A FEW NIGHTS ONLY.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, 2/•-■ Plan at Allan’s.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, DECEMBER 19.
Geo. Willoughby, Ltd., present the Coalmine Sensa-
tion Drama,
WHAT WOMEN WILL DO FOR
LOVE.
Prices: 2/-, 1/- and 6d. Plan at Pianola.
CSPLANADE, ST. KILDA, MELBOURNE.
Direction NIGEL BROCK.
THE GREEN HANDIES.
EVERY EVENING-at 8.30.
Prices 2/- and 1/-. NO BOOKING FEE.
I J O U T II E A T R E. M E I, B O U K N E.
FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON, 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
JOSEPHINE GASSMANN’S PICCANINNIES,
OLIVER REECE, NEW YORK COMEDY QUAR-
TETTE. WHITE & GREY, ALBERT TOULOUSE,
IRVE IIAYMAN & CO., WILLIAMS & WARNER.
Prices: 2/6. 2/-, 1/- * 6d. Matinees: 1/6. 1/- & 6d.
|_|OYT’S PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
THREE BIG SHO WS.
OLYMPIA, Princes Bridge.
NATIONAL THEATRE, Bourke Street (Eastern end).
HOYT’S OWN, Bourke Street, 'centre (now building).
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL,
O I It C II & CARROL J,
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS. j
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies’managed over this '
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film '
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Opftou: ROTH WELT. CHAMBERS, BRISBANE i
M
Let the Motor
pump your
Tyres with
the Mayo
Pump.
No auto owner
will continue using
a back - breaking
hand pump after
, once being shown
this device. With this pump tyres easily can be
kept up to pressure at all times. Hence full mile-
age service will be obtained which will result
in a saving of 25% in the tyre expense. 50,000
satisfied users are our best recommendation.
Instantly attached to any engine (European
or American). Remove spark plug and screw
pump in its place. Start the motor and your
tyre, is inflated with pure fresh air in from
two to four minutes, just watch the gauge, it
tells the exact pressure. :
Write to-day to us or to our nearest dis-
tributor.
MAYO MANUFACTURING CO.,
69E 18th STREET, CHICAGO, U.S.A.
Stockists: CARRATS LTD., Sydney, N.S.W.
R. B. SPINKS & CO., Auckland, N.Z
Best Christmas Gift of all
An AMBEROLA,
Give your wife a present from which she can
turn to happiness many of her moments alone—
that will be an aid when entertaining friends —
that will be a delight, not only to herself, but to
many others, too. An Amberola is the ideal gift!
It enables you to have from the latest musical
comedy hits to the best in classical music. Only
world-famed artists are engaged, and with these
you are in constant touch.
The Edison Amberola permits you to bring up
your children in an atnfosphere of beautiful music.
It will play and sing the music that you love best.
'l'iie Amberola —concealed horn phonograph—is in
various models, at prices (in Australia) from
AdB/10/- to £45. Of course, there are other
beautiful instruments of the Horn Type, ranging
from £3/10/- to £23.
Call at your nearest Edison dealer’s and go into
the matter with him—or write for our latest
phonograph list.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD.
(Wholesale only), 864-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
THE “TRIUMPHATOR”
mum" nmmuni
CALCULATING MACHINE
is the greatest TIME-SAVING, BRAIN-SAVING
and MONEY-SAVING device that lias ever been
introduced to the Office World.
The only machine that always shows you the
actual figures you are working with.
Illustrated Catalogue on application. ■
A. P. Greenfield 8 Co. Ltd.
189 Ceorgre St.,
BRISBANE.
:: THE NEW ::
AUSTRALIAN NIB
GOLDEN WATTLE
M
DOES NOT BREAK OR CORRODE, AND
WRITES WITHOUT HARSHNESS AND
SCRATCHING. IT HELPS TO FORM
THE LETTERS NEATLY, SO AS TO GIVE
CHARACTER TO THE WRITING. LADIES
LIKE IT FOR ITS SILKEN SMOOTHNESS.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
321 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE :
BRITISH MINES,
BRITISH MEN,
BRITISH BRAINS
make
SALT
THE BEST the
World can produce.
[THE CHAMPION BAGATELLE PLAYER
The cleverest mechanical game ever invented
You wind it up the little man shoots
ball after ball into
the numbered holes.
The mechanism re-
turns each ball to the
player, who drives it
►again up the table.
It is perfectly self-
acting, and most exciting
games can be played by
several people scoring by the
'different colored balls or counting one
>reak against another; often tots up 400 at
a break. Absolutely fair; cannot be rigged.
It is over 11 inches long by -6 inches high,
strongly made and packed in a box. Only 5/6; we pay
carriage anywhere. You will say it is worth double the
money when you see it playing. Obtainable only from
The Union M’fg & Agency Company
| . 299 Elizabeth Street. Melbourne _ (
5/G
Ge . org e ei <i gone to Egypt, where
. e Australian troops are, and Maoriland’s
Ag-ent-General has gone with him. Holman
and head dan somehow missed the chance to
i|, then- State reps, to join the party,
i these two Politically-mad mullahs
, dn t know that they could dig up some
beautiful schemes for raising the wind from
. u, Ivhedivial records. And they
lonian t have to dig very deep, either.
~ ei' e was, for instance, that ingenious
i asha who, being more than usually hard
“ p ’ ukased that landholders could buy oft'
naif the land-tax in perpetuity by paving
up six years’ taxes in a lump. And there
was the other one who, having (like
Holman and Scaddan) given somebody an
undertaking not to raise another loan for
a n^ ew mimi-li 8 ? §°t over the difficulty by
selling a Levantine syndicate a few million
bushels of wheat which lie didn’t have, cash
down, and buying it back at 20 per cent,
advance in six months’ time. In fact, if
Holman Pasha would send out a reliable
prospector, he would find Egypt a perfect
old mine of schemes for rushing a country
to ruin and having a bubbly time with the
proceeds.
From a letter (10/12/’l4) by John Tal-
bot who writes regularly to Sydney Tele-
graph re the new liquor duties: —
Having disposed of the spirits I will now deal with
the beer.
All that this writer hopes is that, if
John Talbot has disposed of the spirits, he
hasnt made such a complete finish of the
beer as to leave none for anybody else.
The Cold Tea folk in N.S.W. have met with
the insult of their lives. The public-
house people put up the price of drinks on
account of the increased duties, and were
ordered to put it down again and carry
their case to the Necessary Commodities
Commission. So not only does the drinker
get his blue ruin at the old figure, but
beer is labelled in cold blood as a necessary
commodity. This is a case of the teeto-
taller being hit with two bricks at once.
For one mournful day in Adelaide—and
it chanced to be 100° in the shade —a whisky-
and-soda was ninepence. Just one big
central bar kept to the old price, claiming
that to put a Jd. penalty on soda, which is
not affected by the new duties at all, was
absurd. The one big dissentient broke up
the agreement, and another meeting was
held. It fixed a compromise. It disregarded
the, old tradition that the Private Bar
can’t bother about coppers, and it left
whisky at the old 6d., with soda, if asked
for, a penny extra. Beer is to remain as
before; but the glasses may be a trifle
smaller.
A. E. Cutler, who is accused by some
people of building the light cruiser Brisbane
J , ugl .? a £ove the water level at Cockatoo
Hock (N.S.AY.) that it will cost £50.000 to
launch her, is a well-kno.wn official in N.S.W.
Public Works Department. A few years
back a committee, presided over by R. R. P.
Hickson, administered the dock, and the
periodical shindies that occurred ended in
a . Commission and an election, from
which Cutler emerged as superintendent of
the whole show. When the Commonwealth
took it over Cutler remained until the
arrival of King Salter from England, and
then moved on to Ma’s workshops at
Newcastle. If he were heard from now he
would no doubt explain that he knew per-
fectly well all along that the ship would
have to be launched, and he had his own
inexpensive plans for doing it; and lie- would
doubtless further say that it wasn’t economy
to spend money on the means for launching
till there was some use for them. Quite a
lot of people don’t buy the lifts for their
buildings till the buildings are ready and
need lifts ; and there isn’t much sense, either,
i a providing means to launch a ship till
there is a ship to launch.
News of the death of Lady Sherbrooke is
cabled. She was the widow of Robert Lowe,
who lived in Sydney 1542-50. Going back to
Engfand he entered Parliament, became
famous as a parliamentarian, and ended up
as discount Sherbrooke. An obituary states
that “it is more than GO years since Lord
and Ladv Sherbrooke, then plain Mr. and
.Mrs. Lowe, left Sydney for tungland.” As
a matter of fact, the Mrs. Lowe who left
Sydney in 1850- died in England as a
viscountess in 1884. In the following year
the widower married the lady recently
deceased. He himself died in 1892. A silly
.'arn has been told that this second lady was
the daughter of the widow Jamieson, mur-
dered in Sydney by the notorious John
Knatchbull. 70 years ago. There is in Syd-
ney a letter from Lowe, written in England
in which it is stated that he and Mrs. Lowe
had given their consent to the marriage of
the Jamieson girl to “a very steady trades-
man,” and that they intended furnishing a
home for the young couple. Bronte, at
Nelson Bay. Waverley, was the home of the
Lowes when they lived in N. S. Wales—
though it was apparently a successor, J. J.
Falconer, manager of the Bank of Austral-
asia, who named the place Bronte.
Following upon Premier Massey’s admir-
ing remarks about the Australian naval
unit comes a burst of confidence from
Maoriland’s Minister for Marine:—
We know to-day—and I believe the people of this
country know it, too —that it is nothing but a crime
to put British seamen to sea in ships of the type of
the Philomel, Psyche and Pyramus. We do ask
for at least one up-to-date ship instead of three
rotten, old, out-of-date vessels that can’t catch up
to anything and can’t even run away.
Well, presumably Maoriland’s disgusted
Minister for Marine knows hosv he can
get _ one up-to date ship. All he has to
do is to give the order and pay the money.
In fact, he can share in half a dozen up-to-
date ships by standing in with Australia,
and putting up his share of the expense, as
he must do sooner or later. Presumably, if
father Bull is sending Maoriland coffin-
ships. it is because he reckons Maoriland a
mean, loafing country which- coffin-ships
just about fit;
N. S. Wales acquires a third Inspector-
General of Police on the pension list through
the brilliant E. C. Day’s nervous breakdown
and consequent retirement. His predecessors
Fosbery and Garvin are both living. Super-
intendent Mitchell, who follows him, is
essentially a city man. Day, on the other
hand, was always a country officer, who, to
begin with, had the luck to hit the eye of
authority by helping to shoot a couple of
escapees who had killed their gaoler.
For years it has been clear to the Councils
of Richmond and P’ran (Vic.) that. the
bridge over the Yarra at Church-street was
in a state of senile decay; but the pair were
unable to agree on the apportionment of the
cost of a new one. and they wanted the City
Council and the Government to contribute.
These latter parties couldn’t “see” it, and in
the absence of a Greater Melbourne Council
to tackle the comparatively trifling job,
nothing was done. But the other week
Nature gave a strong hint. Heavy rain
swelled the wood blocks so that the bridge
floor rose up like a Zeppelin and stopped all
but small-boy traffic. Simultaneously the
moisture loosened the soil in one bank, so
that the ancient bridge threatens to slide
down bodily and block traffic on the bosom
of the majestic Yarra. So far Richmond has
sustained the shock well, but shopkeeping
1 ran foresees the loss of 2s. lid. worth of
trade, and is moving Heaven and earth,
otherwise Premier Peacock, for a new bridge.
And Peacock thinks of the harassed Treasury
and the war and the drought and wishes
things were different.


Prevent Skin
Blemishes
"'t
Vi
%
, r
By Using
Cuticura soap
and Ointment
They do so much to promote and
maintain the purity and beauty of
the complexion, hands and hair un-
der all conditions, and are unexcelled
in purity, delicacy and fragrance for
the toilet and nursery.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold throughout
the world. A liberal sample ot each, with 32-pago
booklet on the care and treatment of the skin and
scalp, sent post-free. Address R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W,
M
Tash's
For
I marking
' linen
WOVEN
NAMES
Your name is neatly woven in fast Turkey
Red on Cambric tape so that your Linen,
Clothing, Handkerchiefs, etc., are per-
manently marked by simply sewing the
name on. Prevents articles being mislaid
at laundry. Note the cost is small: I
dozen 7/6; 6 dozen 5/-; 3 dozen 3/6.
Obtainable at all drapers and outfitters or
woven samples sent free on application to
J. & J. CASH LTD .
346-50 Flinders Lane, Melb.
ri
Always ask
for CASH’S
ho simple
i
■212.
We invite you to buy a oox ot “ Da
Reszke” Cigarettes and compare them
with any brand you please. Their quality
will appeal to you,
H 5
Great Danger of
lose eft Bites.
DOCTOR’S ALARMING STATEMENTS.
Protect Yourself Against Ordinary
Dangers by using
NEV-A-BITE
“There is no question,’’ says a leading
specialist, “that insect bites may lead to great
danger to health, and have been known to end
fatally.’’
This alarming
statement, which
has appeared in
the influential
newspapers of this
country, should
arouse the public
to the fact that
'bites from mos-
quitoes and other
insects are things
to worry about.
It is quite pos-
sible that if one’s
blood is in a poor
state an insect
bite might set up
such serious in-
flammation as to
cause blood-poi-
soning, and —as everyone well knows—blood-
poisoning may lead to even the amputation of
a limb.
One has only to glance at the illustration
given here of the mosquito to realise what
terrifying poison-injecting parts this insect
has. It is absolutely necessary, not only for
the woman who desires to keep her complexion
in its natural condition, but also for the pro-
tection against more serious dangers, to secure
some reliable preparation which will prevent
insects from biting.
The best form of treatment of mosquito bites
is prophylactic, or preventive. The application
of a little of the Nev-a-bite lotion to the
forehead, neck and the instep (when openwork
stockings are worn) reduces the probability of
mosquito-bites to a minimum.
Nev-a-bite i 3 a perfectly harmless pre-
paration, and serves to whiten, soften and
beautify the skin.
Nev-a-bite can be obtained at 9d. per
bottle. Postage 3d. extra from — 1
DUERDIN& SAINSBURY
Manufacturing Chemists, MELBOURNE.
The dread Mosquito,
whose bite is perhaps
the most dangerous of
all insects.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HOLDS THE WORLD’S RECORD for LARGEST BONUSES.
NEXT DISTRIBUTION OP PROFITS AS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1914.
ALL participating policies issued in the Ordinary Department before the close of the cunent jear wi
share in the Cash Bonus to be then allotted. n Qe n snn
Cash Bonus divided for year 1913. . . • • • • ri won’nnn
Yielding reversionary additions to policies of over . . . . fci,7.su,u
SOCIETY IS PURELY MUTUAL. NO SHAREHOLDERS.
ALL the profits earned are distributed among the participating policy-hmders. . nf
NOW is the time to effect an assurance or a further assurance on your life so as to reap the benefit o
this year’s cash Bonus. . , fnr
WRITE to the Head Office, 87 Pitt Street, or District Office or Agent of the Society tor
full particulars.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.,
General Manager and Actuary.
JAMES STEEL,
Acting Secretary.
AN/EMIA
and Debility
IF you are run-down, easily exhausted and out
of breath—if you feel slack, depressed, or
“out-of-sorts,” start a Course of Iron
‘Jelloids’ at once. Iron ‘ Jelloids’ are the
finest and most reliable tonic for all cases of
Anaemia or Debility. They quickly restore
vitality, and produce the rich healthy blood so
essential to good health and vigour. Iron
‘Jelloids’ are a perfectly safe remedy under
all conditions—pleasant, inexpensive, do not
harm the teeth, and are non - constipating.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote: —
“It can be definitely stated that Iron ‘Jelloids’
constitute the most effective and desirable
treatment for the cure of that common com-
plaint, that insidious and weakening condition,
no matter from what cause arising, known
as Anaemia or Poorness of Blood.”
A fortnight’s trial (Price 1/6) will convince you
Iron Jelloids
enrich the blood - renew vitality
Special Tonic for Men, Iron ‘ Jelloids, 1 No. 2A (containing- Quinine). For
Women, Iron ‘Jelloids,’ No. 2. For Children, Iron ‘Jelloids, No. 1.
IKON JELLOIDS are sold by all Chemists in Australia.
Manufactured only by The Jelloid L. 0 ., .205, City Road, London, England.
Wholesale: Druggists' Sundries Ltd., 82, Pitt Street , Sydney , N.S.W.
| BeWe you take Irott jeUoidiStimes 1
p
il
TO-DAY, particular thought should be
given to one’s shoes. Definite purpose
and not caprice should rule their
choice, since Fashion recognises their dress
value and insists that they shall harmonise
with the rest of one’s attire, Thus, by
following the lead of Fashion, a very dis-
tinctive and pleasing note can be attained.
Bostocks are designed for wear with the
newest toilettes; they are exclusive in style
and the cream of imported shoes.
Special shipments have recently arrived
at the leading stores, and ladies should call
before the choicest styles are sold.
H
m
*s
He
Style 593
803
V
sc
Xenrick’s Cast Iron
TOTS and PANS in
your kitchen mean
Pounds in your PUFSO!
BRITISH MADE
BY BRITISH
'WORKMEN
because they outlive enamel
and all other ware; because
they come to the boil quicker and never chip,
rust, leak, or rub into holes.
KENRICK’S Cast Iron Saucepans and Kettles have
been known to give good service for over two
score years, with hard daily wear, and are good
cookers and quick boilers right to the end.
See that they are
On Sale at all
KENRICK’S Cast Iron
Made by Archibald
Kenrick & Sons Ltd., Eag.
IRONMONGERS,
STORES, Etc.
Business, Robbery, etc.
No sooner had Germany dragged the Turk
into war against the. Allies than one of
Sydney’s best-known alien traders was in
trouble. For many years his coffee-shops
have been almost as well patronised as the
gospel-mills. Much of the money he made
in Sydney was invested in real property, and
when Turkey fluttered into the enemy’s
camp the enthusiasm with which some of
his tenants declined to part with the rent
was altitudinous. As a Turk he cursed
Bilheim ; as an Australian citizen (although
unnaturalised) he shook his head sorrow-
fully ; as a business man he got busy and
made such a disposition of his property that
at latest the rent-dodgers were paying up
and looking mean.
* * * #
“ J.G.” : If the war cable is to be believed,
the German brigands have destroyed the
contents of many famous cellars in north-
eastern France. I don’t want to take
advantage of the misfortunes of our friends;
yet it would be madness not to see in this
and the neglect of German vineyards a
chance of utilising many thousands of acres
in the southern parts of Victoria that are
now lying practically useless. This land,
some of it within 30 miles of Melbourne,
was once heavily timbered, but the timber
has been mostly sent to Melbourne as
firewood, and now the territory is devoted
to the growth of an amazing variety of
scrubs and bracken fern. The greater part
of the land would be ideal vineyard country,
being naturally well drained and of a gently
undulating nature, with the normal rainfall
good, but not excessive. Vines flourish here,
and hundreds of people might find pleasant
and profitable occupation in growing them.
For some strange reason or other the culti-
vation of the grape has been neglected in
southern Victoria; though years ago wine
of the finest quality was produced in parts
of it. Even now the Chateau Yering, at
Lillydale, owned by David Mitchell (Melba’s
dad) produces wine equal to any. A fair
quantity of juice is produced in northern
Vic., but most of it is a very full-bodied,
sweet wine, of great alcoholic strength. This
quality is due to the fact that the warmer
climate develops more sugar in the grape.
The wine that has been produced in southern
Vic. is totally different —a first-class, light,
dry liquor; the very thing, in fact, that we
ought to be drinking all over the continent.
* * *
• “Aristide Schulfin”: At the beginning of
the war France had just the same trouble
with its paper money as Australia is experi-
encing now —the very people who ought to
barrack for it and demand it sneer at it and
make trouble if they don’t handle gold. I
was in Paris when the pot boiled over. Paris
is pock-marked with Duval Restaurants. So
vast has been their success that the Etab-
lissements Duval have become as much a
part of Parisian life as many of the larger
municipal undertakings of the city. Then
came the war. and France, which had sup-
plied the Duval family with millions, stood
in need of every form of energy which it
possessed. Next to men and guns the nation
needed gold and silver, and France accord-
ingly issued notes for small amounts for
local circulation. No public body in Paris
was better equipped than the Duvals for
establishing public confidence in this paper.
But, instead of coming to the rescue, the
Duval family put up notices on the doors
of its business places, refusing to accept
paper money. Just as the “Liberal” com-
mission agent and other commercial pirates
in Australia are in the habit of singing “Rule
Britannia” and “Sons of the Sea” on fitting
occasions, so the Duval family would have
affected the “Meuse et Sambre” and the
“Marseillaise.” But in neither case could
they resist the temptation to throttle the
community.
COMPENSATIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For years past complaints have been made of the
refuse which is cast up on Bondi beach. As surfers
all know, this takes the form of vegetable matter,
fruit, animals’ carcases, and so forth.
—Pained utterance in Sydney daily.
The ordinary person may retire from Bondi beach,
And do his surfing in some other spot.
(A certain type is careful, and keeps firmly out of
reach
Of places where dead animals are shot.)
But there are points about it which another sort of
man
Will greet with joy—nay, more, with wild, delirious
elan.
The humble, for example, need no longer hang about
In regions where dead conflagrations are ;
Those wishing to abase themselves have merely to
go out
And take a cab, or tram, or motor-car
And cross the sand which lies between the ocean and
the sheds,
The surf will freely spill a ton of ashes on their
heads.
The actor whom the habits of a lifetime have
inclined
To look for gifts of long-dead dogs and cats,
Is absolutely certain to immediately find
Not only these, but fowls and pigs and rats
By plunging in the waves which break on Bondi's
fragrant shore —
And in far greater numbers than he ever knew
before.
Those people with a taste for fruit who find the
local pries
More swollen than their pockets can afford
May get enough for nothing, out at Bondi, to suffice
The most voracious crowd, or tribe,-or horde;
And if they long for cabbages or lettuces or peas
By paying tuppence for a surf they also can have
these.
So let us not contemn a spot where one may buy a
swim,
And for the same expenditure acquire
A host of little articles that are of use to him
Whose luck may be described as poor or dire.
The Land of Promise flowed with oil, so Scripture
writers’ tell;
So does the Sea of Bondi—and with other things as
well.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


.
y
HIL CERT” D.8.8.L. GUN, 12- or 10-gauge, top lever 30iu
steel barrels, extension rib. rebounding "locks, left choke smn
s „ nia p e ' end ’ p J stol & n P» walnut stock; weight about 71b. . 1
Same Gun as above, but with Greener cross bolt
Postage on one Gun, 2/9 N.S.W. ; 5/2 Inter-State.”’
37/6
£2/5/-
Harrington 8 Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12-gauge top
action, solid
case hardened
locks, decar-
bonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol grip, walnut stock, weight
about Gjlb. Gun can be taken apart, same as an ordinary
Double Barrel Gun.
Auto-Ejector, 25/-; Non-Ejector, 22/6
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.; 4/8 Inter-State.
M
M
The “Continental,” 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Collector Gun,
Si h°nrH fZT *I A?.l e e m o? s S , teel barrel, side lever action, solid or skeleton, .walnut stock.
1 16 • barrel length over all 384 m.. weight about 41b. A«1 H r /
splendid gun for use in Orchards. Postage—ls. 9d. N.S.W., 3s. 2d. Inter-State.»«/10/-
MICK vSIMMONkS LTD.
Head Depot: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
City Sports Depot: 119 King Street. Sydney ;& at Hunter Street, Newcastle.
GUNS that give Satisfaction.
The BEST HOUSE for all kinds of
GUN REPAIR WORK.
M
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition,
and all Sport-
ing Goods,
Post Free
Anywhere.
National Arms Co.’s 12- or 16-Gauge D.8.8.L. Gun,
reinforced breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar interchangeable locks, Greener
cross bolt, extension rib, left full, right modified choke, 30in. special steel barrels,
Pistol & r ip. walnut stock, engraved, weight of 12-gauge about
bilb. to 71b.; of 16-gauge, 6|lb. to 611 b. DELIVERED
Ite can supply this Gun in 20-gauge at 12/6 extra.
e arc the Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the above Gun, which has been made to our own
specifications, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
£5/12/6
f
©
9
The “ Continental ” Combined Double
Barrel Shot Gun and Rifle,
30in. Ivrupp Steel Barrels, bar locks, cross bolt, the gup barrel full
choke, 12-gauge shot, 32 Winchester Rifle calibre, weight about 7slb.
OARRTAfiR P ATD
£77-
KYNOCH
USE
BRITISH MADE
.22 Rim Fire CARTRIDGES
Head Works: Birmingham, England. And at Melbourne 8 Sydney.
r>
aearea
EJS!
SMSfimfie
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
Gd. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
Tube
Threading 1
is easier and
quicker with
OSTER
Bulldog Die Stocks
Eight unusual features are combined in
every tool. Ask your dealer about them.
The Oster Mfg. Co.,
4] CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.S.A.
M
For Sa/e by
Leading
Dealers in
AH Cities.
HAVE REGARD TO YOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee Company
of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc.
AMPLE SECURITY ASSURED. TRUST ACCOUNTS ALWAYS OPEN TO INSPECTION.
ESTATES AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
EVERY DESCRIPTION of TRUSTEE WORK UNDERTAKEN. FULL DETAILS ON APPLICATION.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [1
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
hook of nature and illustrated
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s Gd posted. Mkiiiiik
England, (id. How to Gut Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine'S SILKNT FRIEND, i S 6d. NICD DONNELLY'S ART
of Boxing, new enlarged edition. 40 engraving's, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. ° Moll
landers, a rare book by De Foe, is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola's,
including Nana, is 6d each, posted. Educating tub
Hor.su, is. Ventriloquism Madf, East, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is id. Bull’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s (id posted. Riddle of this
Universe, Sd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/6.
Joys of Life, is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches. Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop llandyhook, i/3. Quadrille Call Book. 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games, '
is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert. Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards. illns.. is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, is. Maria Monk. Is (id. ' How to-
Make Love, is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s (id. Aust. Miners’ GuiDE(simple tests for minerals)*
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fates
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price is: nost, is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is id.
Equality, !)d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is*
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations:
and ttie Flagellants), scarce, lis. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Nor Guilty (Blatcn-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is (id.,
God and My Neighbor, (id. Britain for tiik
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to-
Train for all Sports, is 3d. Diseases of Horses.
’s 3d. Theory of Value, is 6d. French Polishing?
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught. 1/S.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups. Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and* s
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d. i
I
■
I
i
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
KM BRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS 1' REE FltOM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and oid, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting- their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH, -a®
gipsy fortune telling gauds—love
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with lull directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
"in at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Tiie White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Max His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations'and portraits. Is- post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers' Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Like ok Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameiion, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
HE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my.
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. Nkw Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford's Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6cL
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions ok tiik
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Yest Pocket
Dictionary, Sd posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO IIKAD HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassn’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfadden's Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d, Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing', Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


Wm
? -■
#£■' ■
w .
>*»
.^ms,
mm*
\
M I
■
■H
■MB
Nurs
sgm
; 4 .svs
BIGS' FEE!
Constitute Your
Tongue into
the Supreme
Judge.
And put “Ilex” Ham Pate on a fair trial
by asking your Grocer to include a tin with
your next Grocery order.
The best evidence on behalf of
REX
“REX’’
HAM PATE
is supplied by the taste —the tantalising, appetising, delicious taste which is the
outcome of carefully-cured Ham, ground fine, and seasoned with pure spices in
the “Ilex” way.
Spread “Ilex” Ilam Pate in bread sandwiches, place fresh, crisp lettuce leaves
between the slices, and serve to your guests to afternoon tea or at supper time.
All will vote “Rex” Ham Pate delicious.
Sold by Grocers everywhere.
Ask for Rex Ham Pate and
take no other.
OTHER “REX” CANNED DELICACIES ARE: —
Veal anil Tongue Pate, lib. tins.
Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
Pork and Beans, 111 b. tins.
Pigs’ Feet, in Jelly, lib. tins.
Bunch Tongues, in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Sheep Tongues, in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Ilex” Puncheon Cheese, in decorated
tins only.
AND
“Rex” Brand Card, for cooking pur-
poses, in lib. prints.
“REX” FRESH SMALL GOODS pro-
curable at all Grocers’ anti Small-goods’
Shops and Carts in Brisbane and
District and Bendigo and District only.
Saveloys.
Strassburg Sausage.
Veal German Sausage.
White Puddings.
Black Puddings.
Pork Sausages.
Frankfurt Sausages.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Curers of ‘‘Rex” Hams and Bacon,
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products,
Makers of “Rex” Small Goods.
A Revolt—a Tragedy of Caste.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JAMES GUY LLEWELLYN was a
clerk
Who worked within a dismal bank
From breakfast time till nearly dark,
And seldom smoked, and never drank.
Although a clerk James boasted brains,
A poet of a sort was he,
Who chopped out lines with weary pains
To show his versatility.
Yet James would never deign to note
Or write on any common thing ;
He tried the Highest Thoughts, or wrote
Some loyal tripe about the King.
For all Llewellyn’s thoughts were spanned
In limits drear that held him fast;
His Deity all freedom banned :
He cramped his soul, and worshipped Caste .
Obsessed with one enthralling thought
His life in its set process ran ;
For James from childhood had been taught
His father was a Gentleman.
Life’s one important matter he
Considered was distinguishing
Between the folk who try to be
And those who really are the Thing.
He seldom smoked and never drank ;
Expenses such as those might bar
His vice of keeping up his rank
And mingling with the folk who Are.
He had a wife and just one child
(For style and children both the gilt
He lacked) ; a manner nicely styled;
A home genteel but jerry built.
Few joys they knew. Their drink and meat
And pleasure too, were mostly pride.
They showed the world an aspect neat
Around a sadly starved inside.
But hopeful for a richer day
James looked ahead with eager eyes;—-
A futile hope! And yet they say
The dead some future day will rise.
For James was fastened to his bank
By all his pride of rank and race:
A gentleman could never prank
Or hustle in the market place;
And banks are institutions that
Believe in gentlemen as clerks;
But for the jobs that carry fat
They seek for pushing, hustling sparks.
A bank clerk still would .Tames have been,
While pride and poverty made strife,
But for the advent on the scene
Of Mrs. Betts, the Brewer’s wife.
The lady’s face was like a rash.
Her accent had a rancid sting;
And Mrs. .T. (for all her cash)
Decided she was “Not the Thing.”
Her way she made to every door
For she was fat with dividends;
But Mrs. Betts with anger saw
The cold aloofness of our friends.
Now she remembered she had known
Llewellyn’s dad in days of yore ;
Before his rank so high had flown
He only kept a grocer’s store!
Now in the noble realm of snobs
What, cloaked by cash, need not be sin,
Is crime outright in seedy nobs
With very, very little tin.
And in the slander of a day
Llewellyn’s grandeur fell to bits ;
And James went mad ; and Mrs. J.
Had fifteen quiet but lofty fits.
Cut dead and humbled, in his wrath
He smashed his idols of the past.
And felt that he despised the froth.
The sham and empty show of caste!
To ease his soul he turned to verse.
He wrote a slander on the King ;
And hurled a democratic curse
At riches, snobs and everything.
His new effusions quickly sold.
At midnight, like a ship which storm
Turns strangely, home he brought his gold —
Within him in a liquid form.
He sacked his bank before its boss
Could deal with him ; he pawned his duds ;
And (conscious writing meant but loss)
He made a fortune selling spuds.
He grew so rich that sociallee
His only equals were the Yids ;
Died full of cash, with mansions three,
Five motor-cars and fifteen kids.
N.s.w.
HAMER.
Bad Mr. Blenkinsop.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bartholomew gates was a
diverting liar. In other words, he
knew the essentials of a good story,
and he could make even the dullest relation
of fact into a brilliantly-instructive essay in
fiction. He had a large and genial outlook
upon the world, a keen sense of humor, a
shrewd judgment of his fellow men, and was
very fat. The kindliest blue eyes twinkled
under a high dome of forehead, and the
rounded massiveness of his pink, clean-
shaven face, with its fine double chin, gave
the sort of stability to his narrations that
an organ gives to an air which sounds
almost flippant when played upon a tin
whistle. At table in the saloon he told the
Captain and myself stories that made the
stewards snigger behind their hands. In
the smoke room, and up and down the deck
as we walked, he enthralled me with his
reminiscences and inventions. And last
thing at night, when he came to my cabin,
with an ample whisky flask and a syphon of
soda water, and deposited his great bulk upon
the settee, he spun me yarns that knocked
all the sleepiness out of me, filled me with
mirth, and caused me to regret his departure
somewhere about the time that four bells
clanged up to us from the engine-room. One
of them was the story of Claude Blenkinsop.
“These two lads were brothers, and they
were both in the same Bank—the Bank of
East Australia. There was only about
fifteen months’ difference in their ages, and
they were very much alike to look at.
Faces pretty similar, and build about the
same. But in every other way they were
as unlike as you ever saw. They didn’t
have a characteristic in common. I was
never quite sure which of them was the
elder one, but anyway, one was named
Maxwell, and the other Claude. They
joined the Bank at the same time, and were
both in the Head Office at Sydney. That
is, for a year or two. Afterwards they were
always in different country branches —
mainly because, I believe, their father, old
‘Soapy’ Blenkinsop—you know, him that
had the big soap factory out towards the
Ilog Bend flats —went to T. B. Mac Parki-
nson, the general manager then (he’s dead
now), an’ begged him to give orders they
should be kept apart, for the sake of
Maxwell’s reputation.
“This Maxwell was one of those fellers
that’d be a credit to the best regulated
family. He was what they call ‘steady’—
with a capital S. lie was that steady it
was painful to observe him. Never late to
business, always well and gentlemanly
dressed —no purple socks about Maxwell —
and always home to dinner at half-past six.
He played a little cricket, and a little foot-
ball, and a little tennis. He played bridge
also —but never for more than fivepence a
hundred. He belonged to a debating
society, and he took his sisters to church
nearly every Sunday, either in the morning
or the evening. He never had any trouble
over horses or over women. The Bank
thought very highly of him, T. B. MacPark-
iuson told ‘Soapy.’ So did everybody.
Everybody respected him, an’ I think every-
body was a little scared of him, he was that
dam’ perfect. Ilis mere existence was a
sort of reproach to ordinary sinners like
you and me, Captain. Well—you know
Senator Blenkinsop? That’s him —an’ lie
owns the soap works too, now the old man’s
blowing bubbles with the Seraphim. Morally
speaking, there were no flies at all upon
Maxwell Blenkinsop. You know him to-
day. He's got none on him now. Well —
I want to tell you about the other chap.
They were known in the Bank as Blenkin-
sop the Good and Blenkinsop the Bad.
“Claude Blenkinsop, the Bad, he was the
complete and particular knockout. He was
a young limb, and a rip, and hot stuff, and
a holy terror. He never arrived at the
East Australia office quite up to time. Ilis
large acquaintanceship with barmaids
always made him late for dinner —if In 1
went home to dinner at all. lb* backed
horses, he played billiards, he played poker,
lie got tight, lie took chorus girls to Manly
and elsewhere, and he was once run in with
a two-up school, but lie saved the family
credit by calling himself Smith. He was
also once run in for lighting a policeman
after lie had thrown a Dago out of his own
oyster shop, but that time he called himself
Ferdinand Moses.
“One thing he did 'll tell you the sort of
cove lie was. You know how they fire that
gun off Pinchgut every day at one o’clock,
in Sydney Harbor. Well- —his nibs finds out
that after the gun was fired, each day, they
put in the charge for tin* next day’s salute.
So lie gets to work. From some disrepu-
table gunner in the Artillery, with whom lie
used to go and drink beer at the canteen in
the Barracks, he learns all about how to
let the blessed old thing off. Then, one
dark night, about two o’clock, he pinches a
waterman’s boat from Man-o’-W nr Steps,
pulls off to Pinch gut, climbs up on top and
bangs off the blamed old gun. The flagship
lowers a boat, and the police launch goes
chasing out —but they never got him. lie
left the boat there, and swam ashore on to
Kirribilli, and went and turned into some
disreputable pub lie knew of near Milson’s
Point, to get dry. There was some
suspicion, but the wet man at the pub had
called himself Donald Mackintosh, or
Duncan Brollv, or some old Scotch name
like that, and' the barmaid swore he was a
Jew. , „ ~
“It was after he d been made one of tne
co-respondents in that Ivinnear divorce, case
-—you remember it? It was after that that
old ‘Soapy’ went to T. 8., an’ implored him,
with tears in his eyes, to send Claude off
sc mewhere so that Maxwell wouldn t be
gettin’ pointed out in the street as Mis.
Ivinnear’s pet boy. It certainly was hard
on Maxwell. People used to go into the
Head Office just to have a look at him —him
being at one of the counters, whilst the
reprobate worked upstairs in another
department. Hardly pleasant for a steady
young man, was it, though it led to ten new
accounts being opened by ten different
women ? So they shipped off Blenkinsop
the Bad to Brewarrina, and Blenkinsop the
Good was left for a while, until he got
promotion —which wasn’t long—at Head
Office. But it’s about the bad one I want
to tell you. His reminiscences would make
a good book —Maxwell’s would make a very
dull one. ,
“Brewarrina suited Claude. It used to be
a hot shop—climatically and otherwise —and
Claude warmed it up a little. Mind, there
wasn’t any real harm in him. He was good
at his work. And although he backed horses
and played poker and such-like, he never ex-
pected the Bank to finance his ventures in
such directions. He never gave himself an
overdraft that was to be reduced if a certain
horse romped home at Itandwick, or if he
drew a winning ticket in Tatt’s. No fear.
Ilis books were always right—and knowing
of some of his proceedings you can bet his
various managers scrutinised them pretty
closely. He’d pawn his sleeve-links, or even
his last waistcoat, before he’d touch a shil-
ling of the bank’s money, outside bis salary.
He was well liked in Brewarrina. He suited
the place.
“But he got engaged to (lie daughter of
the publican he boarded with —a nice girl I
believe. When ‘Soapy’ was informed of the
state of affairs, instead of being glad of any
chance that might steady Claude down a bit,
what does he do but make another trip into
Theodore Barton Mac Parkinson’s private
office—he was a director of the bank—and
induce him to give his bright boy a shift
down to Monaro. This was foolish, because
the next time Claude got engaged, and the
breach-of-promise action came along, he had
to pay the £2OO damages that resulted over
the Brewarrina. girl’s trifled affections and
blighted hopes. ' So Claude spent some little
(Continued on next page.)


TAKE
am-Gufc
WITH YOU-
FOR HOLIDAY MISHAPS.
It isn't wise to go away for a holiday without a pot of Zam-Buk,
the ever-ready healer.
Many a mishap might mar your enjoyment without Zam-Buk,
whereas with this pure first-aid you can obtain speedy relief from
smarting pain, and ward off poisoning.
Sore faces, sore feet, sunburnt skins and rough hands are sure to be
prevalent, too, and anointing with Zam-Buk should be a nightly
measure with all who value comfort and a clear, healthy skin.
Zam-Buk is wonderfully soothing for sore, aching or tender
feet, and invaluable
for mosquito bites
and insect stings.
Zam-Buk is a heal-
ing, soothing, anti-
septic skin-dressing,
neatly packed and
ready for use, and
as handy as it is
reliable.
TAKE A POT
WITH YOU.
I
NAIL IN FOOT WHILST
PLAYING on the SANDS.
Mrs. H. Brown, of 70 Egan
Street, Richmond, Melbourne,
says: “When we were at the
seaside my little boy, while play-
ing on the sands, stood on some
broken timber, and a rusty nail
ran into his foot, making a
very nasty wound. Although I
tried various ointments the
wound festered and became more
painful.
“A friend gave me a supply of
Zam-Buk, and I at once applied
it to the wound, and soon the
wound was healed.”
INSECT BITE CAUSED
BAD ANKLE.
Mrs. M. Watson, 26 Campbell
Street, Glebe, Sydney, says:
“While on a trip 1 was bitten on
the ankle by an insect. A sore
formed, and festering started,
causing terrible pain. I con-
sulted an eminent skin specialist,
who treated me with ointments
for two years, but the foot seemed
to get worse.
“At last my sister persuaded
mo to try Zam-Buk. Zam-Buk
quickly drew out all the inflam-
mation and bad matter. I con-
tinued to apply Zam-Buk night
and morning, until finally the
ankle was completely healed.”
ZAM-BUK soothes and
heals all those nasty
skin troubles so pre-
valent in Summer,
such as Pimples,
Chafed Feet, Sunburn,
Raw Perspiring- Sur-
faces, Irritation,
Rashes ; and is invalu-
able for Cuts, Bruises,
Burns, Scalds, Ring-
worm, Barber’s Rash,
and injured or un-
healthy conditions of
the skin. Obtainable
from all chemists and
stores at 1/6 per pot,
or 3/6 family size (hold-
ing nearly four times
the 1 6), post free from
C. E. Fulford (Aus.)
Ltd., 39 Pitt St., Sydney
am
FOR ALL SUMMER SK IK TROUBLES
Exclusive Agent
Wanted
8®
to sell our portrait
enlargements, picture
frames and novelties
in art goods. Excellent
opportunity for any
Merchant or Agent
The sale of this
line of goods is veryre-
numerative. You may
charge good prices for our
. portrait novelties. No ex-
perience _ required. We will send free of charge, our
book of instructions and general catalog. We furnish
bank references. 20 successful years in the export
business is our best reference.
Consolidated Portrait & Frame Co.
1029—D.10 W. Adams St„ Chicago. 111.. 11. S. A.
ills
Ho
ASTHMA
o*2l
P
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
iieaconsfield. testified to the benefits
he received from Himrod’s
Asihma Powder and every
post brings smi.iar letters
to-day.
iHgystf
Famed for 40 Years.
Best remedy tor Asthma,
Hay f ever, Kose Co.d or
ord nary Cough.
Soiri iti 7 ins by au Chemises ana Uteres
throughout Austraias.a .
“Novel Method for
Waving the Hair.”
TOILET TALKS,
MANY a charming face is spoiled by
straight, lank, and excessively greasy
hair. Naturally curly hair gives a most
delightful effect even to a plain face, a fact
which has unfortunately been known for
many years. This knowledge alone has re-
sulted in the ruination of thousands of heads
of beautiful hair by slow torture from that
terrible instrument, the curling iron. Im-
agine, if you can, how the living hair squirms
and twists under such treatment. Yet this
is the very result you aim at. Well, I have
no doubt that each one individually is of Ihe
opinion that the results justify
the meas, but let me tell you
that the reckoning will have to
be paid, and in a manner which
will be far from pleasant. The
twists and curls created by the
hot iron are the hairs’ dying con-
tortions, and it is only a question
of time when you will have no
hair left to torture. If it is
absolutely necessary to have
wavy hair, then there is a far
more simple and harmless pro-
cess which any woman may
adopt without fear as to the
results. Get from your chemist
two ounces of silmerine, and
11°j 11 ' about two tablespoonfuls into a saucer.
W ith a clean toothbrush apply this to the
hair upon retiring. You will be quite
amazed at the result, and one application
will last for many days. Damp weather
need have no terrors for you if you take
these simple precautions, and straight, wispy
tails will be converted into tight little curls,
giving a charming and pretty effect, even to
a plain face.
Note —Silmerine has not been used to any
extent for this purpose, but most chemists
keep a small supply in stock.
l\[OW about shampoos. Is it reasonable
to expect that one particular make will
suit everybody? Certainly hot. Some
M
folks have dry and brittle hair, others have
tresses which are excessively greasy. Each
requires a different grade of shampoo, if one
is to obtain the best results. The writer’s
notice was recently brought to a substance
called stallax, which can be obtained from
most chemists. It consists of small gran-
ules, which, when mixed with a cup of hot
water, make the most charming mixture
imaginable for shampooing the hair. Ac-
cording to the quantity used, so the strength
is graduated to suit all conditions. There
one drawback, however, and that is stallax
can only be obtained in |lb. tins,
which cost about half-a-crown,
but as this_ quantity is sufficient
to make 25 to 30 shampoos, it
is really very economical in the
end. It leaves the hair a little
too wavy and fluffy for some
tastes, but this can always be
avoided by rubbing a little olive
oil on the scalp previous to its
application.
AFE \V r remarks on face
creams may not be out of
place, and at the risk of being
put down as a little old-fash-
ioned, my advice on this subject
is to leave well alone. Do not
clog the pores with greasy concoctions
which not only prevent the skin from
performing its proper functions, but
usually result in encouraging a growth
of hair on the face, and you know
very well what that means—disfigure-
ment for the rest of your natural days.
If it is necessary to use an emollient at
all, get some mercolised wax from your
chemist and apply in the usual way.
This remarkable substance seems to absorb
the worn and weatherbeaten outer cuticle,
and in a few days’ time the new\ healthy
skin underneath peeps forth in all its
brilliance, and is, of course, quite free from
imperfection or blemish. [1
time in Cooma—about seven or eight months
—and got engaged to another nice girl, who
made out that all was over when the papers
were full of the Brewarrina girl’s disappoint-
ment and Claude’s enthusiastic love-letters.
Ine old man had to buzz in from Point Piper
once more and prevail upon T.B. to move the
Improbable Son away somewhere else. This
time he went to Murrurundi. up at the top of
the Hunter Valley.
“Here, beyond painting that little Sleepy
Follow red on one or two occasions, Claude
appeared to be leading a blameless life—at
least, 80 far as entanglements with what I
call the unfair sex were concerned. For
quite a while he remained unmildewed by
the breath of scandal. It was not until a
slander action--in which one young lady
sought to rehabilitate the reputation which
had been tarnished by the remarks of another
young lady, who had said some nasty things
about her—occurred that it came out that
iUr. Claude Blenkinsop, cashier of the Bank
of Fast Australia in the picturesque' village,
was simultaneously, engaged to both plaintiff
and defendant. The gifted banker became
very unpopular in that unenlightened com-
-111 unity. Plaintiff's brother first yvaited on
him with a stockwhip, and was very badly
mauled by Claude. And after he’d laid out
defendants brother-in-law with a straight
left on the point—when lie called at the bank
with. a shotgun in his hand and bitter words
in Ins mouth—the manager of the Murru-
rundi branch wrote to head office and recom-
mended Mr. Blenkinsop fqr a change. So
up goes Blenkinsop the Bad to the Northern
Rivers, via Sydney, taking with him the
recollections of some of T. B. MacParkin-
sons very cuttingest sarcasms, and his
father s curses. Maxwell merely expressed
disapproval, and would have had his head
punched, only he could use his hands quite
as well as Claude could. It’s wonderful how
some of these saints can fight. That’s why
I never insult a small curate. And up there,
nt Maclean on the (Jlarence Biver, Nemesis
or the Grace of Heaven, or his deserts, or
something of that sort, overtook the bad
man.
“Claude was beginning to think by this
clu * that rnovin g about from one end
or the State to the other was very fatiguing,
and a little trying to the temper. lie
began to feel that he was becoming ridi-
culous, and ridicule was the thing that Mr
Claude Blenkinsop most disliked. So lie
was very circumspect, and dodged invita-
tions to dances, and picnics on the river, and
tennis parties, and all functions where he
was liable to come in contact with any or
several specimens of the Nicest Girl.
But one day he pulled the young son of
one of the largest storekeepers in the place
out of the river when it was a bit flooded,
*V 1C * 116 a Hero. The consequence was
that he had to go to old Michael Brady’s
house to be made much of, and become the
mend of the family—and so on—and Norali
Brady was absolutely the Nicest Girl in the
Oh, she really was. I know her.
And Bad Blenkinsop reckoned that he wasn’t
fit to marry an angel like her. He struggled
was no good. They say that he even
wiote to Head Office and asked for a transfer,
and that Head Office wrote back to say that
as he was evidently behaving himself for the
iir ® t TTT 1 J? e , ie d better stay where he was.
Hell, the poor Bad Man. he saw it was
no use struggling against Fate, and so he
saw .a lot of Norah—mot that she wore her
evening frock cut unusually low, you know
and the old man, who thought a good deal of
the boy-kid Blenkinsop had yanked out of
the Clarence, and who knew all about old
feoapy s extreme wealth, encouraged him,
and so did Ma Brady. So one summer even-
ing m al! the romantic setting of the sunset
on that, noble stream, Claude dished out his
proposal. lie was more in earnest this time
than lie d ever been, and he really meant
what he d only thought he meant on similar
occasions previously. Norah really was a
IN ce Girl, and a good girl, and a deeply
religious girl.
Claude,’ she says, ‘I do love you—and
111 marry you. But it’ll have to be on one
condition, she says. ‘You must let me con-
vert you to the Church. I could never marry
a heretic,’ she says.
“Now this was a bit of a poser for the Bad
Man - His people were all Presbyterians,
and they hated the Pope like the Devil, only
moie so, and though Claude would just as
soon have been a Jew, or a Plymouth Bro-
thei or a Mormon, or a Calatliumpian, or
anything, he didn’t much like the idea of
going over to Rome on top of all his other
indiscretions. He knew it would nark the
old man more than any of the divorce or
bieach-of-promise or assault cases had ever
done. And he was fond of his father.
But he was terribly fond of Norah. and
getting converted by her didn’t seem to be a
Ta 1 ! , u "P leasa nt lookout. So he told her
£ and she set to to instil into
him all the doctrines of the Church. They
used to go for long walks with books like the
Douay version of the Bible and ‘The Lives of
the Saints, and she introduced him to the
parish pne_st. who was a very earnest cleric,
and a good fellow, whom Claude got to like
personally very much. And she did her level
best, and Claude conscientiously strove to
take an interest in religion—until he felt it
growing on him, and doing him good, and
making him a better man. and all that And
he got more and more enthusiastic about it
and used to have great confabs with Father
Denis over it. and at last, one day, he was
solemnly baptised, or received, or earmarked,
or something, as a full-fledged, no-compro-
imse, whole-hogger of a straight-out Roman
Catholic. And this pleased Norah Bradv
tremendously. The marriage was fixed up
tor some few' months ahead, and she was as
happy over her convert and her sweetheart
as any good, sweet girl ever was. But this
didn t slacken Claude off. He got more and
more earnest, and devotional, and abstracted
every day.
“Just one week before the wedding was to
take place, Claude called, late in the even-
ing, to se Norah, and—you’ll hardlv believe
me—but he said to that dear girl—l’ve
known them for years: ‘Norah—it’s no use
J ean t marry you - rve a call to the
Church. I’ve taken vows of celibacy, and
Im going to enter the monastery at Goul-
burn. Good-bye. mv child.’ And with that
he chucks the Bank, and Norah, and his
interest in ‘Soapy’s’ will, and becomes a sort
it?” Old you ever h ear anything like
Norah?’’ asked Captain Gavman.
tJid she become a nun—did she enter a con-
vent i"
"No,’ said Mr. Bartholomew Gates. “She
nearlj' went mad for a bit—but eventually
she married a rich young Jew. He was a
decent Jew, and they’re very happy. The
curious thing was that he knew Maxwell
i .vr lns °P —*^ le Blenkinsop. And one
day Maxwell spoke disparagingly of Claude in
ms hearing, and the Jew hit him real hard,
ihe police-court tale said that Benjamin
Moses was fined £5 for unprovoked assault.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
Fallen Among Thieves.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ IVT I never done no shearin’; but I
1 rouseabouted one year in a shed
near Muttaburra. It ain’t too bad
of a game, an’ them smoke-ohs is all right,
' jn ’; y like em a bit longer, but the coves’
wot tollers shearin’ an’ rouseaboutin’ is too
kiopinm ot on the take-me-down.
Ms mate Scotty was Avitli me o’ course.
After the cut'out we went into Muttaburra
aiong with th rest, an’ that night a sawny,
soltish-lookin young feller wot was a picker
up at th shed arsks us t’ come on down th’
tiy stage an have a taste. So we goes
down o course. The dry stage is the longest
walk between any two pubs—about 500 yards.
e , n 11 we Sot to th’ pub tlr parlor was full
+ ii •» 6r^nis» r shed, all laughin’ an’
tailiin. Th bloke ses: ‘Too many to do in
toi. .Let s wait a bit.’ Then th’ missus
comes in all smilin’ an’ ses: ‘Hullo, boys,
ye re very slow. Have a shillin’ in an’
Queeme ’ll sing, “Bother th’ min.’” Th’
mob ses: Righto.’ an’ calls f’r th’ bones,
an one cove suggests thruppence in an’ th’
winner shouts. We all co’ncided, me tliink-
m thruppence a drink all right, to say nothin’
tme chance ’f winnin’. I was second last
thrower,, an Scotty was last. I noticed
■, at th coves didn’t know much about
thro win dice. They was pickin’ up sixes
an hves an’ leavin’ th’ little uns stand. ‘All
th better f’r me,’ I thinks. W’en it come t’
my throw th’ ’igliest Avas thirteen ; that Avas
dead easy. So I flops ’em out, careless-like,
an got sixteen, an’ stood on it. Mb mate
got the same first pop, an’ ses t’ me: ‘l’ll
take half th’ pool an’ cry quits.’ ‘Right,’ I
ses, an passes ’im tAvo an’ six, there bein’
-0 players.
“Then the sawny-lookin’ bloke wot brought
us down ses t’ me: ‘Your shout mate.’ I
ses, Wot,’ an’ they all sings out, ‘Thrup-
pence in an th’ winner shouts,’ an’ laughs
like 'ell. Then I kneAv why they was pickin’
up the big ones. I tried t’ make Scotty pay
alt but he sed we was quits—me own mate,
mind yer. So I was done in f’r near ten
bob.
i “But wait till y’ ’ear th’ end. That ain’t
all. After we’d done my shout someone
suggests a game of ‘Yes,’ t’ keep things
movin’. Me an’ me mate arsks wot’s ‘Yes’?
Oh,’ one feller ses, ‘we all get pitchin’ t’
an’ tryin’ t’ make tli’ other feller
say “Yes,” an’ whoever ses “Yes” shouts f’r
tli’ crowd. I)’ yer catch on?’ I tole ’im I
savvied t’ keep orf ‘Yes,’ an’ th’ game
started. . A feller tried me on eA'ery thing he
could think ’f, but I was too cunnin’. Then
I thinks I’ll have a go at the softy cove,
an saunters over t’ ’im, careless, an’ ses.
You’re playin’, ain’t yer?’ ‘O’ course,’ he
ses. _ ‘Amusin’ game, ain’t it?’ ‘Yes,’ I ses,
unthinkin’. ‘Number one,’ he bawls out, an’
up went another ’alf quid. I was wild, I
can tell yer. We gets goin’ agen, w’en Scotty
beckons me over t’ ’im. confidential-like. So
I goes, chewin’ over bein’ caught by that
gazob. ‘By .Jove.’ ses me mate, ‘you’re
it in all right. That’s about a quid,
ain’t it?’ . ‘Yes,’ I ses, this conversation
bein’ sort 'f private between mates ; but tli’
swine yells out ‘Number two,’ an’ I was
stuck agen. Me an’ Scotty nearly resolved
partnership over that. We would ha’, on’y
he was holdin’ more dough than me. Anyhow,
I wouldn’t play no more ‘Yes.’
“After a hit a feller ses, ‘Wot about a
game of “ones”?’ I wanted to stand out, but
they explained how simple it Avas. Just
write from 1 to 20 on pieces cf paper, an’ th’
man that drew number one from a bat
shouted. So I joined in. Th’ papers were
fixed up, an’ put in a hat, an’ Ave all drew,
an’ I got the one. Another ’alf-jim gorn. I
was so narked I sed w T e’d haA r e another of
them. So they fixed the papers agen, an’ we
drew. ‘Call yer numbers,’ yells th’ soft yob,
an’ they calls ‘Seven,’ ‘Eleven,’ ‘Five,’ an’ so
on. But Avot’s th’ good ’f strincin’ it out?
I got tli’ blarsted one agen, an’ ’ad t’ do in.
I wondered then why they was all so fond ’f
chewin’ up their papers. I know now. They
Avas all ones, an’ 1 Avas the on’y one Avot was
honest enough t’ say . I had it. What dyer
think f that f r SAvindlin’ hounds, an’ me
mate standin’ by grinnin’, an’ not givin’ me
tli’ orfice?
After a hit ’f a spell th’ Missus comes in
agen. an ses: Well, boys, better y’re
dockin dorris, or somethin’. It’s nearly shut
up time.’ Someone ses: ‘Wot about cork
100 * Not me,’ I ses. ‘l’ve ’ad enough
games.’ Go on,’ ses the saAvny cove. ‘Look
here, mate, this is a. fair dinkum go. The
Missus gives every man a cork. Then he
puts it on th’ counter in front of him, an’ all
go back to the wall. Then she gets under
the counter so’s she can’t give the office to
no one, an’ ses: “Are y’ ready? Go!” At
th word “Go” you dash f’r your cork, an’
tli’ last man t’ touch his shouts. That’s fa ; r
enough, ain’t it?’ That seemed all right
specially as some of them was a bit wobbly
an’ me mate couldn’t move like I could. So
I joins in. I didn’t notice the hemphasis
AA ith w ich he say: ‘You dash for your cork ’ ’
We gets our corks an’ puts ’em 'on the bm
counter an’ retires to th’ wall. Then th’
Missus stoops down an’ ses: ‘Are y’ ready?
Go!’ At the word ‘ready’ I shoves Scotty
an another cove alongside ’f me with me
elbers an’ makes a dash f’r me cork. Got it
first, too. Then I looks ’roun’ an’ see ’em all
grimin’.
“Th’ cove with th’ come-an’-be-saved face
ses, ‘Y’r dooly elected agen. matey.’ ‘W’at
for?’ I yells. ‘Why, I touched me cork first:
An’ last.’ ses he. ‘Nobody else ain’t touched
his. so y’r up agen it agen.’ An’ I Avas.
Since then, Avhen I can’t get a drink guv
to me honest or put on the slate, I either
pays for it or does without.”
W. J. COLMAN.


WestinghoMse Pumping Set
Direct Coupled "Westinghouse” Cross Oil Engine
and Centrifugal Pump.
A SELF-CONTAINED UNIT SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR—
* Sp
IRRIGATION
and other work.
The Engine operates without
CARBURETTER or
VAPORISER, has no delicate
mechanism to get out of order,
and is automatically governed
and lubricated.
Write for Particulars to
The Westmghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents : Philips & Pike, Wellington.
Concord West, N. S. Wales
[2
BUY THE BEST.
BOUNDER
Planing Machines,
Resaws,
Band Saws,
Jointers,
Have Demonstrated their SUPERIORITY
in AUSTRALIAN MILLS.
.
£25
Circular Saw No. 3E.
PRICE, Complete,
Catalogues and All Information from the Sole Agents—
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney- [3
\v\ \U/s y
m
Lime -Iroi t Juice.
Brings to your lips the juice
of the lime fruit.
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing?
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped
from London.
MONTS ERRAT la sold by all leading Storekeepers.
M
What a Successful
Dealer says:
"‘I like Pemington-UMC
arms and ammunition be-
cause my greatest asset is
pleased customers. Many years of busi-
ness experience teach me that -customers
are alway pleased with Pemfn^ton- UMC
Cartridges, consequently, they come to
my store for their ammunition and other
things. This gives me frequent turnovers,
fresh stocks and I enjoy the good will of
the people who patronize me by giving
them only what I know will please them.”
Successful Dealers Recommend
Gmumn-im
Remington Arms—
Union-Metallic Cartridge Co.
New York
London
Catalogs free
M
M
BETTER TO BE SURE
THAN .SORRY
\
m
*£
■I:
mmm
flNl
>W
;Cwr©3
wwfm
¥
'N.V'rr-;.. :
*
ifl
SsSw*
flf
$
►Wiwi&v
1
I
[ ?S*
wv;
T>V.
}{) £
.11 v,
MR
&HL
*&■
50 TAKE
BEECHAMS PILLS
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing:
Medical
Testimony
with each
SOLO BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
l/li, 2/9 & 4/b.
M
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectu all y
cuts short all
attacks el
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
‘he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Act* like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
Dinneford’sJ
Magnesia J
DINNEFORD’S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“ DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
. and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Water! and Cordi
ars Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wk Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS' HALL, LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all pares of the world.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF P
A look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
M
Lockyer’
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.


NGROVITE
LEATHER
M
is the ALL AUSTRALIAN BELT.
In buying it jou are not trading with the
enemy, nor adding to the profits of foreign
shareholders.
Sole Manufacturer and Proprietor:—
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 York Street, Wynyard Square, SYDNEY
™ , (only).
Telephones: City 2898. 8496.
ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings; Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
m
A“BUFFALO”
FOR EVERY SERVICE.
VOLUME BLOWERS and EXHAUST FANS
for ....
VENTILATING & COOLING
Shops, factories, Engine Booms, etc.
BLOWING
Supplying blast to Cupolas, forges,
Furnaces, etc.
EXHAUSTING
Steam, Smoke, Gas, Fumes, etc., and
Befuse from Woodworking Plants.
Write for full, descriptive Buffalo Catalogue
—it fully describes the Fan best suited for
your requirements.
AGENTS—,
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
1 ■
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
It is the Power
Your Belt
Transmits
that
Counts.
%
r g,
so
JF
rtEßuag&a-
Be
Sure
and
Specify
DICK’S
BELTING
SoTiE Agents—
Jas. Hardie 8 Co.
Circular Quay,
SYDNEY.
And MELBOURNE.
MACHINERY
DALCETY & COMPANY LIMITED
MERCHANTS
MILLER S POINT, SYDNEY—and at Melbourne, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville, Adelaide, Perth
. * ’ *
M
TENSYE
LAMPLESS OIL ENGINE.
A marked improvement
in Kerosene Oil Engines.
Engine started immedi-
ately from cold. No
lamp required.
The best for Shearing,
Pumping, Chaffcutting,
Irrigating, etc.
M
TANCYE
SUCTION CAS PLANTS.
These Well-known and
Reliable Plants gene-
rate power for Mills,
Factories, Mines, etc.,
at remarkably Low Cost.
Write us about them.
THE
</)
UJ
>0
Si
m
CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH
STEAM and OIL TRACTORS.
Specially adapted for Plough-
ing Large Areas. Most gratify-
ing results have been obtained
in New South Wales with the
new “Clayton ” Oil Tractor. It
works on ordinary kerosene.
o
NICHOLSON & MORROW
“ UNION ” FARM IMPLEMENTS,
“ Union ” Harvesters, Drills,
Cultivators and Ploughs are
Wonderfully popular with
Australian Farmers. Their
extra strong: construction is
a notable feature.
y*
m
ViHVOH
TANOYE Winches, Chain Blocks, Lifting Jacks, Steam Engines and Boilers, Pumps, etc.
MUNRO Chaffcutiers, QANE Milking Machines. WOLSELEY Crutchlng Plants.
BLAKE’S IMPROVED STEAM PUMPS
for Every Possible Service.
BOILER FEED PUMPS.
LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS.
TRIPLEX BELT-DRIVEN PUMPS.
PISTON PATTERN BELT-DRIVEN PUMPS.
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
Large Stocks carried by the Sole Agents—
~i ■'»»>*»
Write lor Catalogue and Prices.
H. P. GREGORY CO.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants)
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
!
ELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION CO.
WOLVERHAMPTON
Manufacturers of the Highest
Class of Electrical Machinery
of any pattern. Write for
Quotations to Sole Agents.
Warburton, Frank i, Ltd.
m
: •
m
307-309 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
jftsfefo
M
The reputation of the Lister Sheep-shearing
Machine implies so much that the name itself
is the password to conviction.
All parts guaranteed interchangeable with
the Wolseley.
Lister duplicates are second to none in
superiority and durability of spare parts.
M
DANGAR, GEDYE &t CO.,
9-13 Young' Street
SYDNEY.
Australian Farm Implements. Australian Farm Engines
Harvesters, Drills, Ploughs. Cultivators, Chaffcutters, Harrows, Saw Benches, etc. For Chaffcutting, Pumping, Sawing, Hoisting, etc &
Manufactured by HUGH V . McKAY, Sunshine Harvester Works , Sunshine
Branches: Stanley St., South Brisbane ; 27 George St. West, Sydney; 102 Spencer St., Melbourne; 56 North Terrace Adelaide.
Sunshine Farm Implements, 4S pages, handsomely illustrated, is worth having. Sent post free on request. Write for It.
Keystone Traction Dirt Loader.
Every CONTRACTOR has wanted—and urgently wanted—a light steam shovel that could readily be moved from one lob to another
There are many portable shovels on the market; but the range of their operations is limited to a radius of a few rods on the level flnnr
of a quarry cut. * c
THE KEYSTONE TRACTION DIRT LOADER IS UNIQUE!
It is light, weighing but 16,0001 b. It can be used as a TRACTOR, having two speeds—one and three miles per hour and will go
anywhere under its own power where a dump waggon can be taken with a team of horses.
CAPACITY; The Scoop—either dipper or skimmer—lias a capacity of one-third yard. Can be filled, raised and dumped in about one-
half minute. » 1
OPERATION—It is a one-man machine.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS-
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Sydney & Melbourne
