

the Whisky of Sterling Value
B. G. WATKINTS «§C CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
i
0
a
UJ
h-
UJ
Q.
UJ
P
h
T.
O
2
- «
£
<h
TL
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
COmmcrciM cmaSbßk MjM Kiw.WQM ocneu otF»wn inwtsmtwt .etg
m
Richardson’s
Wine 8 Spirit Stores,
68 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
158 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
m
Bottle, Case or Gallon at Wholesale Price.
lITTTIM
“PINEAPPLE” HAMS & BACON
Ul lUI
m
ANTI BLOWPIPE
SAFES
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
m
ir
A N S E NS
m
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
w-
e specially
to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
m
BENSDORPS
m
JA
SUPERIOR
EVERYWAY.
H
I
T
E
0
wm
R
O
O
F
S
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO.
D. S. EVANS, Australasian Representative,
CHallis House, Sydney, Manufacturers of AMIWUD.
White Maltlioid Roofing stands out as the roofing for
buildings where Temperature and Appearance are con=
siderations as well as Durability. If you are building a
house that you want to be a Home; if you have ideas
that are hard to get with the old=fashioned roofing
materials, have a word with your Architect about
Malthoid. We’re content to have you abide by his
decision. If he is an up=to=date Architect, he’ll
recommend this Asbestos=Coated Waterproof Roofing.
BULLOCH LABES
WHISKIES
m
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
s .v. o.
m
CHOICE
Telegraphic Address—BAGON, Murarrie f Queensland
HELIDON SPA
Three reasons why HELIDON SPA triumphs as a Perfect Table Water: STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
Ist—Rapid absorption* 2nd—Rapid circttlation. 3rd—Rapid elimination. Phillip st., Sydney, and Redfem
The Bulletin
Vol. 35.—N0. 1795.]
[Thursday, July 9, 1914.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOORS
(Postages shown
in parentheses .)
James (Henry): Notes of a Son and Brother, 14/6
(5d.).
Cooper: Where Two Worlds Meet, 4/6 (3d.).
Wollaston: The Spirit of the Child, illus., 6/- (4d.).
Memoirs of Maria Stella by Herself illus., 9/- (4d.).
Burns (Wm. J.) : The Masked War, 3/6 (4d.).
Fleishmann: An Unknown Son of Napoleon (Count
Leon), illus., 9/- (4d.).
Smith: What Can Literature Do for Me? 3/6 (3d.).
Saleeby: Progress of Eugenics, 6/- (3d.).
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP’T’Y, LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Cigar and Cigarette
Smokers' Attention,
SEND Eight Shillings for trial box. of
100 Manila Cigars, Best Grade. Eight
Shillings for 500 Philippine Cigarettes—cork
tipped—Best Grade. Satisfaction or Money
refunded.
Sent prepaid by registered parcel post to
any address on receipt of price.
Write for handsome illustrated free cata-
logue.
PATTINGELL 8 CO., Lucena, Tayabas, P.I.
THE LADY OF FASHION
will be charmed and delighted
with the Refined Beauty of the
MOSQ! EL
TWIN-COLOR
MOTOR RUG
Made in colorings to match
the cars. Unique in appear-
ance and cosy warmth.
Sold at all the
Best Shops. [2
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
For Coughs I Colds! Influenza! let the buyer bewares
RSE
J.u j
O I :
ST FREE ON RECEIPT
OF STAMPS,
1/6.
The large sale for “EUMENTHOL JU-
JUBES” has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of men-
thol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure and get
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES. You
may be asked to buy other jujubes, and be
told they are “just as good” as Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes. This proves that these
imitations and substitutes have no reputa-
tion of their own, and can only be sold on the
good repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS,
or from the Manufacturers—
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY. [2
The Red Page
The Wonderful Wells
The World Set Free (Macmillan) is a
happy return to the fantastic and imagina-
tive romances that first made famous the
name of H. G. Wells. But this stirring
story of the future has within it the sociolo-
gical purpose of Wells’s recurrent dreams of
Utopia. And though the book may be read
either for its adventure and its delightful
incidental studies in character, or for its
sociological forecast, the unity of the dual
theme is brilliantly kept throughout. The
world is set free by the discovery of a means
for using the tremendous energy locked up
within the atom —the greatest discovery that
the future holds for mankind. The disin-
tegration of radium opens that marvellous
possibility for us. If a key should be found
to unlock the store of that energy of the
atom, the world would be changed for us
out of recognition. It is this fascinating
problem that Wells postulates as solved;
and then he is able to. indicate, with bril-
liant imagination, the extraordinary results
of this cheap and unlimited energy. But
his forecast does not depend upon the solu-
tion of a problem that may prove insoluble.
Wells contends that without the invention
of the atomic engine the conditions he por-
trays would come—in time. He merely
suggests that the coming of the millennium
will be hastened by some such invention.
“A quarter of a million years ago the
utmost man was a savage.... Over most of
the great wildernesses of earth you would
have sought him in vain; only in a few
temperate and sub-tropical river valleys
would you have found the squatting lairs of
his little herds, a male, a few females, a
child or so.. . .He fled the cave-bear over the
rocks full of iron ore and the promise of
sword and spear; he froze to death upon a
ledge of coal; he drank water muddy with
the clay that would one day make cups of
porcelain ; he chewed the ear of wild wheat
he had plucked and gazed with a dim specu-
lation in his eyes at the birds that soared
beyond his reach... .Yet he changed....”
But suppose, instead of the decay by
driblets that radium shows, there was a
decay en masse? Suppose we find presently
that we can quicken that decay?
“Every scrap of solid matter in the world
would become an available reservoir of con-
centrated force.... It would mean a change
in human conditions that I can only com-
pare to the discovery of fire, that first dis-
covery that lifted man above the brute. We
stand to-day towards radio-activity exactly
as our ancestor stood towards fire before he
had learnt to make it. He knew it then
only as a strange thing utterly beyond his
control, a flare on the crest of the volcano,
a red destruction that poured through the
forest... .Just when it is becoming appa-
rent that our ever-increasing needs cannot
be borne indefinitely by our present sources
of energy, we discover suddenly the possi-
bility of an entirely new civilisation. The
energy we need for our very existence, and
which Nature supplies us still so grudgingly,
is in reality locked up in inconceivable quan-
tities all about us. We cannot pick that
lock at present, but —we wi11.... Then that
perpetual struggle for existence, that per-
petual struggle to live on the bare surplus
of Nature’s energies will cease to be the lot
of Man. Man will sten from the pinnacle
of this civilisation to the beginning of the
next.”
It is in 1933 that Wells prophesies the
invention of the atomic engine. The in-
ventor set up atomic disintegration in a
minute particle of bismuth.... and a by-
product of the process was gold. Easily
recoverable, too. With the perfection of
the engine, power became absurdly cheap.
“In three years the frightful armored mon-
sters that had hooted and smoked and thun-
dered about the world for four awful decades
were swept away to the dealers in old metal,
and the highways thronged with light and
clean and shimmering shapes of silvered
steel”; and the problem of the helicopter
was solved. The industrial world was revo-
lutionised ; credit smashed; millions of
workers were thrown out of employment.
Humanity had been disastrously caught
unawares.
But one terrible invention brought matters
to a crisis. This was the atomic bomb.
This engine of destruction, depending for its
power upon the release of the energy of the
atom, is a brilliant fantasy of Wells’s scien-
tific mind. An atomic bomb, once launched,
burnt like a volcano for years, a monstrous
cavern of fiery energy, destroying everything
for miles around. So Wells graphically tells
of the Last War, in which the old methods
of fighting are futile against the destruc-
tion caused by these bombs. In this war
the capitals of the world are utterly de-
stroyed and remain unapproachable craters
of destruction. Canberra, not being men-
tioned, was apparently not thought worth a
bomb. All the powers went to war in a
delirium of panic, in order to use their bombs
first. By 1959 the world was slipping head-
long to anarchy. Government was at an
end. But one man brought about a confer-
ence of ex-rulers and notable men, and that
committee set stolidly to work to evolve the
regulations for a new civilisation of common-
sense. First they got control of the appar-
atus for making the atomic bombs; and
though the King of the Balkans made a des-
perate attempt to become a world-Csesar, the
adventure ended in his death.
It is a new, clean world that this commit-
tee evolve. There are no pills in it, no flies,
no old clothes Wells is always interesting
when he enumerates his New-Utopian dis-
tastes. The old capitals are beyond restora-
tion .. besides, in the new world, nobody
wants the restoration of anything old. This
latter part of the novel is of great interest.
Wells’s picture of the millennium is extraor-
dinarily inspiring, finely sane, firmly founded
on sociological demands. But he posits a
too-sudden change in the old Adam. Out of
that world-destruction something groping and
clumsy would surely with difficulty have
risen, not this vision of a scientific common-
sense Utopia. The rhythm of evolution is
slow. The great catastrophes that have
ended the civilisations of the past have flung
the race back into long periods of barbarism,
out of the chasms of which Man has had
heavily to crawl back into the light. But
Wells would have us believe that from this
universal decay a new civilisation suddenly
and gloriously flowered by the mere passing
of resolutions of a committee, supported
though they were by the control of all the
offensive force. Human nature cannot so
swiftly and so wonderfully emerge from the
chrysalis stage.
But even Wells admits that in his new
garden of Eden there remains a serpent. In
this world of science and sanity there still is
—Woman, the snake. Woman persists in
remaining woman, somewhat to Wells’s exas-
peration.
“It is you poets, with your love songs,
which turn the sweet fellowship of comrades
into this woman-centred excitement. But
there is something in women, in many women,
which responds to these provocations; they
succumb to a peculiarly self-cultivating ego-
tism. They become the subjects of their
own artistry. They develop and elaborate
themselves as scarcely any man would do. . . .
I have been reading in the old papers of the
movements to emancipate women that were
going on before the discovery of atomic force.
These things, which began with a desire to
escape from the limitations and the servitude
of sex, ended in an inflamed assertion of sex,
and women more heroines than ever. Helen
of Holloway was at last as big a nuisance in
her way as Helen of Troy, and so long as you
think of yourselves as women, instead of
thinking of yourselves as intelligent beings,
you will be in danger of —Helenism. To think
of yourselves as women is to think of your-
selves in relation to men. You have to learn
to think of yourselves—for our sakes and
your own sakes—in relation to the sun and
stars. You have to cease to be our adven-
ture, and come with us upon our adventures.”
We 11.... will y0u.... ever?
A brilliant book without a hero or heroine,
yet full of the real romance.
Sydney and the Other Woman
By DOWELL O'REILLY.
To know Sydney, you must know her by
heart, and that requires a big heart. She is
a beautiful coquette —everything she ought
not to be, and so delightful for that very
reason. She flouts our common sense, but
her appeal. to our finer senses is at once
impudent and irresistible.
Sydney is the Garden of Paradise after
the goats got in. Her moist winds are heavy
with all the odors of Araby and her camels.
An enchanted city, where black clouds of
battle-dust smother the lurid sunset, as the
whirling “southerly” stabs the “black
north-easter.” And on her harbor the light
that never was on land or sea glimmers
where opaline headlands float in morning mist
and broken sunshine.
Her faults really do not matter : faults
never do. When all her youthful indiscre-
tions are forgotten she will be beautiful as
ever —and just as indiscreet. Beauty alone
counts. Corruption is swallowed up in cor-
ruption. Tarquin stabs Tarquin to death,
while Lucrece leads Lucrece where her shame
is glory and her tears are stars. Sin
is the red rose of a perfect dawn, and horror
itself but beauty in the womb —O dew-washed
sky, and hush of night, and everlast-
ing stars —or are they tea«rs?—and rain-
bowed earth and white passion of the sea,
and secret soul of man that dwells alone
in his high place, and you—milk-white vic-
tim of Love’s eternal sacrifice, garlanded with
childlike flowers led captive by flowerlike
children, not till all your glory and loveli-
ness have passed away will the Immortals
cease to dwell with men.
Ugliness has never a chance against
beauty—even suffragette beauty. Man
knows! So he takes the myth of “The
Great Woman Movement” very philosophic-
ally, knowing that the one law that woman
cannot break with impunity is the law of
Beauty. Her place and power will for ever
depend not on “man-made law” but on the
irrevocable verdict of a full-length mirror.
She knows! The wildest of wild women
has never yet with sacrilegious hands shat-
tered her own bedroom looking-glass. On
the low plane of physical violence the suf-
fragettes’ highest ambition is to die beauti-
fully. But every carnal coquette dyes beau-
tifully, and —what is more to the purpose,
lives on to perpetuate the species —her
species. As an economic argument suicide
has no chance against peroxide. It is so
much easier to fool a man than to fight him.
To bring Asquith to his knees the suffragettes
must give him the glad eye—not a black one.
Every woman knows this in her triumphant
heart, and all she knows in her pathetic
little brain will never count for tuppence
in shaping the world’s destiny. To change
the complexion of Society she must use pow-
der —not gunpowder. And change it she
will, in her old adorable way—what though
the smoke of frenzied curling-tongs reek to
Heaven, and man-made gutters run with
rouge!
Only Beauty goes on, and all revolt
against Beauty .goes down, and out, and
under. As garden-phosohates—bone-dust
well worked in—dank evil is ever purged
back to clean earth, and nourishes the
beauty it lived to destroy.
Australian Fiction
The Australian novelist is ever with us.
Here is the latest batch of his work, all, with
one exception, unfortunately third-rate in
quality; all, in fact, of a standard that would
not, but for their Australian nativity, receive
notice on this page. The exception is the
charming,, unpretentious narrative of N. F.
Spielvogel. ,
Lindsay Russell, author of Souls in Pawn
and Smouldering Fires, has but one _ recipe
for novel-writing—a recipe for popularity of
a kind. The Years of Forgetting (Ward,
Lock) consists of the usual mixture the
wicked R.C. priest, the betrayed woman, the
illegitimate angel che-ild. Hall-Corelli
has proved the palatability of the dear old
religion-sex rechauffe. Lindsay Russell
shows considerable ingenuity in the
construction of her melodramatic plot,
but her style is sickly, her dialogue banal.
On its plane, however, it is quite equal to the
sort of work turned out by industrious
feminine exploiters of this vein of interest in
other lands.
J*
Tullie C. Wollaston, in The Spirit of the
Child (Lothian, 55.), honestly loves Aus-
tralia. Her llowery and prosy appreciations
of the boronia, the white gum, the magpie
and the black opal are interesting, but wheu
she interprets the boronia as humility, the
white gum as aspiration, the magpie as praise,
and the black opal as hope, her nature studies
become sermons. The romance she writes
is stilted and sloppy. She hangs texts upon
the eucalyptus, linds morals in the magpie
and platitudes in everythina. Most of the
book is written in a kind of prose, the rest is
written in a kind of verse. Neither is dis-
tinguished for anything but its highly moral
outlook. The publisher has shrined this
imitation gem in a gorgeous casket. The
color-photographs of black opals are brilliant
examples of three-tone printing. The Spirit of
the Child is suitable, one might say, for the
children of poor but wowser parents.
d*
The Schemers, by George A. Taylor (Build-
ing Ltd., Grosvenor-street, Sydney), re-
minds one of the sensational publications of
the late William Stead. The style is jour-
nalese ; the plot is melodrama; the 20 full-
page illustrations are by George A. Taylor.
The story revolves round the competition
for the plan of the prize design for the Can-
berra Parliament Buildings, the building of
a vast cathedral on Flagstaff Hill, the clos-
ing down of superfluous suburban churches,
and the consequent enrolment of the dis-
carded parsons in the ranks of trades-union-
ism, the exploitation of genius by a despic-
able member of parliament and a cunning
United States company promoter, and the
painting of masterpieces by a great Sydney
artist. The masterpieces are not only de-
scribed : they figure- among the illustrations
by George A. Taylor. Fortunately it is not
necessary for us to criticise these master-
pieces. The editor of the Boston Arena has
done this for us. He told George A. Tay-
lor, and George A. Taylor considerately tells
us, that “In these pictures great, solemn
truths and suggestive lessons are pictured in
an impressive manner,” and the Boston edi-
tor will be “surprised and disappointed if
this artist does not become more and more
a power for human emancipation and pro-
gress.” The good characters in G_eorge A.
Taylor’s preposterous story. enthusiastically
agree with the Boston editor. Evidently
human emancipation and progress are in for
a real good time. We wish them well.
Pleasantly, patriotically and piquantly
N. F. Spielvogel writes of unknown Victoria
in The Gumsucker at Home (George Robert-
son, C.A.) : “After my Wander Year, the
story of which is told in The Gumsucker on
the Tramp, I returned to the simple life in
Dimboola. I, contentedly, went my way,
taught school, played tennis, and read books
for four years ; then the Wanderlust again,
and the idea of exploring the Cabbage Gar-
den. A job as relieving officer of the Educa-
tion Department afforded the means. It is
a delightful picture of the diversity of Aus-
tralian life and conditions that Spielvogel
unfolds in his account of outback and little-
known settlements, each with its character-
istic and different industry, each with its own
individuality of setting and outlook. The
humor is genial, but sometimes forced ; the
love for, and appreciation of, Australia is on
every page.
A Bachelor's Wife (N.S.W. Bookstall,
Is.), by M. Forrest, begins with a forlorn
girl weaping in a bachelor’s house at night,
and ends, as one expects it to end, with the
Wedding March. This story of a penniless
girl who has the usual experiences in the
various “situations” she takes, is pleasantly
written by an Australian author who is
more herself in her poems.
The latest shilling reprints of novels are:
Lewis Rand, by Mary Johnston; and The
Ghosts of Piccadilly, by G. S. Street (Con-
stable).
With the mention of Turgeniev, Gogol,
Tolstoy and Dostoevsky we are apt to think
we have exhausted the list of Russian novel-
ists. The truth is, as the Times recently
pointed out, that these are merely the Rus-
sian classics. There is another list of diffi-
cult names to learn if we hope to keep
abreast of modern Russian literature —
authors whose works clamor to be translated
into English. There are: Ghekhof, whom we
already have in translation as a dramatist;
Kouprin, the Russian Kipling; Gorky
(already translated in part) ; Andreef; the
fantastic Sologub; the writer of
beautiful tales; Beily; Bunnin, the Russian
Hardy. Ghekhof is the most beloved of Rus-
sians; after him the most popular is Koup-
rin, author of 10 volumes of astonishingly
clever and touching stories. Gorky s talents
have been killed by exile. The Red Laugh.,
by Andreef, has been published by Bane.
Sologub is a remarkably gifted and eccentric
writer of tales. Of the names that have
appeared within the last 15 years, Artsiba-
slief is the most remarkable. His book,
Kanin, swept intelligent Russia as no other
book has swept any country. It was ulti-
mately confiscated by the Government. it
is an ugly piece of work about men and
women, and has been suggested to several
English publishers and review-editors, but
nobody dare print it. The English are not
to that extent pre-occupied with the sexual
question, and public opinion could not save
such a volume from the police. Russian
publishers are already richer than English.
Their millions of readers are being added to
every year by the diffusion of education
among the peasants. It is time the trans-
lators got busy.
W. L. George’s search for the rising novel-
ist in England has led to a quest made for
that phenomenon in the United States. A
writer in JL Y. Bookman fails to find any
hope for the United States novel of the
future. The awful incubus on the serious
young United States novelist is his heavy
didactism. The fiction-writer’s art is merged in
pedagogy. The didactic novel may be fertile
as a source of ethical inspiration. It is none
the less sterile as a work of art. The U.S.
novelist is preaching, not telling a story.
Among serious novelists Winston Churchill s
The inside of the Gup and Mrs. Whartons
The Custom of the Country both point a
moral rather than adorn a tale. And
Harrison’s U.K.'s Eyes is smothered _in
didactism. Other preachers are Herrick,
Miss Johnston, London, Sinclair, Albert
Edward, Ellen Glasgow and King. In
Harrison, Upton Sinclair and Jack Bondon
the writer finds the three men under 4U
who represent the direction taken by
the U.S. novel. Rex Beach and Stewart
Edward White are going backward. London,
who has never got away from himself, be-
comes hopelessly didactic in The Valley of
the Moon. Sinclair shows the same inability
to escape the incubus in Sylvia. _ And
Harrison’s U.K.’s Eyes is merely a sociologi-
cal tract. The land of the wooden ham in-
evitably produces the wooden novel.
The second edition of C. A. Sussmilch’s
Introduction to the Geology of N.S. TU.
(Angus and Robertson, Sydney, 7s. 6d.) is
practically a new book. It has been revised
and much enlarged, and in its present form
is complete and authoritative. The large
number of illustrations, especially the photo-
graphs of geological features taken in situ,
render the work of extreme interest to the
average reader.


OJ SQ
Fashion 8 Economy
combine
.. in..
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices
m
2*4
*O/6
222
2r/e
No. 244 Neatly-cut Skirt, in Black and Navy Coat-
in«- Scree, nleated at the foot, trimmed bone buttons.
Empire waist 18/6
No. 222 Well-cut Skirt, in Navy and White Striped
Suiting, with inlet front panel, trimmed Smoked Pearl
Buttons, double-lapped seam down centre back, with
Strap across • • 27 /6
Similar designs in Clack, Navy and White Striped
Suitings 18/6, 22/6, 28/6
Out sizes 24/6, 27/6, 30/-
Anthony Horderns’ Famous
Low Prices Reign Supreme.
MAi_vERH
Mala
The Malvern—Maid’s Coat and Skirt
Costume, in fine French Navy Serge, cut-
away Coat, lapels and belt of Self material;
Skirt is four-piece, suitable for small Ladies’
figures and Maids from 16 to 19 years —
Sizes: 9, 47/6; 8, 46/6; 7, 45/6
The Mala —Children’s Woollen Coat,
of high-grade Wool. Colors: Vieux Rose,
Cinnamon, Grey and Cream, to fit Child from
1 to 12 years. Sizes: 18in., 8/11; 20in.,
9/11; 22in„ 10/6; 24in., 10/11;
27in., 11/6; 30in., 12/11; 33in„ 13/11
m
W
!m
m
m
Ki
rw .5
4/0/.
No. 117/2 —Useful Blouse, of Black Mercerised Pop-
lin, shaped yoke, Collar of Silk Embroidered Insertion,
fastens front 8/0
No. 4101—Very Smart Black Pailette Silk
Blouse, yoke and shoulders in one, small V yoke of
Guipure, finished French knots and crochet but-
tons 24/0
TANGO
«■%
w
VENZ
MINUET
The Tango—Maid’s Coat and Skirt Costume,
in Check Donegal Tweed, smartly tailored, introducing
the new feature in this season’s designing; suitable for
Maids from 17 to 19 years, also for small Ladies’
figures Sizes: 9, 39/6; 8, 38/6
The Venzi —Coat and Skirt Costume, in fine
Coating Serge, Navy ; Collar facings of Black and White
striped Silk, exquisitely modelled, for small Ladies’
figures, and Maids from 16 to 19 years —
Sizes: 9, 42/6; 8, 42/6; 7, 39/11
The Minuet —Coat and Skirt Costume, in heavy
Cheviot Serge, Navy ; modelled for little folk, especially
suited for school wear : to fit Child from 4 to 14 years—■
Sizes: 2, 21/6; 3, 22/6; 4, 22/6; 5, 22/11;
6, 22/11.
m
ZO/6
m
No. 240 — Effective Skirt, with inlaid panel at sides
pleated at foot, finished Silk arrows and Black Silk
Buttons, in Black and Navy Coating Serge.. 19/0
Similar designs in Black and Navy Serge—
-18/0, 21/-, 22/0
No. 227 — Stylish Skirt, in Black Resilda, draped on
hips finished Silk Medallions, with double-lapped Beams
back and front, trimmed Black Silk Buttons... 27/0
Other smart styles in Black Resilda .19/0
Out sizes 27/0
BHI Everything
Anthony Horderns’
New Palace Emporium
A
O
rnii
O
:
pmrrp
\Vi
ten
'i-L
MI NATO GWYN. SELVA.
The Minato —Maid’s Coat, and Skirt, Costume,
in Flake Diagonal Tweed, semi-fitting, cut-away Coat,
with Collar of Black Corded Silk; Skirt is four-piece,
ornamented with beautiful large buttons, expressly
modelled for small Ladies’ figures and Maids from 17 to
19 years Sizes: 9, 42/11; 8, 42/6
The Gvvyn—Children’s Hand-knitted Woollen
Combination Frock, With Bloomers and Quaker
Bonnet attached. Colors: Yieux Bose, Saxe, Cinnamon
and Cream, fitting child from 1 to 7 years. Sizes: 00,
17/6; o,' 18/11; l, 19/11; 2, 21/6; 3, 22/6;
4, 24/6; 5, 25/6.
The Selva —Children’s Woollen Coat, of fine-
quality Wool, simple and effective stitch. Colors: Bed,
Grey, Cinnamon and Cream, fit child from 1 to S years.
Sizes: 16in., 6/11; 18in,, 7/11; 20in„ 8/11;
22in., 9/6; 24in., 10/6; 36in., 10/11.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKneid Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


m
mm
ICwo Popular Models «
There are two popular Winchester .22 Caliber
Repeating Rifles, either one of which gives
first class satisfaction for target shooting or hunting
small game. They are the Model 1903 .22 Automatic
and the Model 1906. The first, as its name implies, is
reloaded by recoil. After its 10-shot magazine is filled
and the rifle once loaded, the only effort required to
shoot it is to aim and pull the trigger. On account of the
ease and novelty of its operation, there is no end of fun
shooting this rifle. It’s the peer of all .225. The Model 1906
is a handsome, well-made, fine-shooting, smooth-wcrking gun.
It is a handy little piece which has no equal in gun value. It
has a 20-inch, round barrel, fitted with sporting front and ad-
justable rear sights. It shoots .22 Short, .22 Long and .22
Long Rifle Cartridges, which permits the use of light ammu-
nition for target work and heavier cartridges for game shoot-
ing. These rifles are Take-Downs, and come apart easily
and quickly and can be packed in a small compass.
WINCHESTER CARTRIDGES. Whichever one of these
rifles you select, use Winchester make of cartridges in it.
They develop the possibilities of Winchester and other
makes of rifles and revolvers to the fullest degree. Get
the kind with the big W on the box.
Winchester Rifles and Cartridges are Sold Everywhere
W
DRAWN TUNGSTEN
SAVE IS'- IN THE
NO LAMPS TAKE LESS
WIRE
POUND
CURRENT
m
I Can Give
You Health
r—iiiiiißww —nr
IF YOU WILL TAKE
VITADATIO
The MEDICINE that cured me of HYDATIDS when all else had failed ;
I then purchased the SECRET of the REMEDY.
You need suffer no longer, VITADATIO is a Tonic, Blood Builder, and
Nerve Restorer. It Cures :
NERVOUS DEBILITY, by bracing the
nerves.
NEURASTHENIA, by clearing out
nerve poison.
CONSTIPATION, by cleansing the
system.
LIVERISHNESS, by rousing the
liver.
TUMORS and GROWTHS, by destroy-
ing the germs.
DYSPEPSIA, by toning the stomach.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA.
by dissolving and expelling ex-
cessive uric acid.
GRAVEL and STONE, by flushing
the kidneys.
SKIN AILMENTS, by purifying the
blood,
DEPRESSION, by invigorating the
system.
Sold by Chemists and Stores. Write
for Free Advice and Testimonials.
S. A. PALMER,
439 FLINDERS LANE,
MELBOURNE, VIC.
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS,
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
m
TRADE MARK SPLENDID 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge,, choke bore, kills at extra long range.
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/6. D.8.8.L. GUN, fitted with
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified steel barrels,
walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN EXCELLENT
KILLER. Holiday Price, £3/10/- D.8.8.L. GUN, choke and modified steel
barrels. Government Tested. THE FARMER’S FRIEND. Special Price,
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 22 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice and
light. A very accurate little weapon. THE YOUTH’S FAVORITE. Holiday
Price, 14/6. CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent ejector. Takes .22
long, .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best sellers. Holiday
Price, 18/6. Write for Our Catalogue.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Largest Importers of Arms and Ammunition in the Commonwealth
242-4 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Dinneford's
Magnesia
miwiggia»H
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tati ons purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
m
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
Imitations look
something like Bird s Custard.
But, blindfold, you can taste
the great superiority of
Birds
the Perfect CUSTARD.
Sold in Pkts., Boxes and new LARGE Tins.
POST FREE. A Valuable Recipe Book
sent, on receipt of address, by W . Douglass,
53, Liverpool street, Sydney.
c 194 s.w.


m
BENGER’S
is the
most easily
digested
) Food
obtainable .
It is expressly
devised to be fully
nourishing- when
natural digestion
isenfeebled, whether
in child or adult.
It is prepared with fresh
new milk and forms a dainty
and delicious cream, which
fully satisfies “hunger-faint-
ness,” and soothes internal
discomfort Benger’s is the
safe food in illness, and in
convalescence promotes
rapid recovery.
Delicate children thrive on it.
mm
Food
For CHILDREN.
Invalids and the aged
is sold by Druggists, etc H every what.
Bender's 800 Viet—A litt’e work of authority l n
the special feeding of Children, Invalids,and the
A«eo, will be sent post free on application to:
BENGER'S FOOD, Ltd.,Manchester, Eng-.
Brunch Offices —Nf.W YORK (U.S.A.) 92, William Street
SYDNEY (N.S.W.) 117, Pitt Street.
Canadian Agents— National Drug Co. t Ltd., Montreal.
IHo A
Are you among those who
reason in this fashion:
“ Ail this talk about ‘ Acid-
Mouth’ may be all right—
but it dosen’t apply to me.
I haven’t got ‘Acid-Mouth,’
I take scrupulous care of
my teeth.”
Let us put this question to
you : “ How do you know
you aren’t among the 19
out of every 20 who do
have ‘ Acid-Mouth?’ Have
you tried the ‘ Acid-Mouth
test ?’
11l
“ If you want to have the best chance
in the world to keep your teeth for
life use Pebeco Tooth Paste.”
Pebeco Tooth Paste does all that
ordinary denlifiices do - cleans, whitens
and polishes teeth beautifully. In
addition it stops 95 per cent, of all
tooth-decay by neutralizing "Acid-
Mouth.”
Send 3d stamps for sample tube and
interesting test of Acid-mouth. Of
all Chemists.
G. ARNOLD, 6 O’Connell Street,
Sydney (wholesale only).
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, o/o Sydney Agents.
COLORED POST-CARDS, by Harrv J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” " Set
of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney.
BOHNJN$ T °m
V
’ 1 J
IRISH MOSS
li
ii
m
It is a good policy to keep in the home
a Cough Remedy of Proven Merit. She is
a wise mother who insists upon getting a
Skilfully Prepared Medicine.
C— 3
m
mm
a:
m
m
WL
has stood the Test of Fifty Years. Those
who use it are amazed at its Wonderful
Curative Properties.
m
RUNKENNESS Cured
Any woman can cure the most violent drunkard — SECRETLY —at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can he taken by the most delicate person of either
sex. It totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a lasting antipathy to alcohol
in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days with this treatment.... Send 2d.
stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., Dept. B. 2019, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
m
m
Every Woman Can Have
A PERFECT
BUST
Tt matters not if you nave been thin and scraggly for years, even if you
never were properly developed your measurements can be increased to normal
and your figure nicely rounded out to pleasing, plump proportions. It is
done every day for others —why not you ?
Mrs. B. Driesden wrote from Armidale, 25th May, 1913:
“I do not require any more of I)r. Falliere’s Flesh-Food,
as I am developed as much as 1 desire. My measurements
have increased satisfactorily, and my health has improved
wonderfully. 1 will tell my friends of your treatment, and
will always recommend it, and I wish to thank you for your
kindness and prompt attention to my wants.”
Many oases gain as much as five pounds a week, and improvements up to as
have been made in bust measurements. Send or call for full particulars at once,
and recommend this wonderful method. Guarantee given in every case accepted.
much as ten inches
Thousands endorse
SEND US a 2d.
STAMP and
LET US SEND
YOU A FREE
BOOK & FREE
SAMPLE O F
‘FLESH-FOOD’
GET THEIR TESTIMONIALS.
Wo suggest that all lady readers who
see this article will do well to investigate
the truth of these assertions. Send two
penny stamps, and we will post you full
particulars and a FREE SAMPLE
TREATM ENT.
We will send you scores of grateful
letters from delighted women and so
much evidence that you must be con-
vinced. Write to-day. If convenient
call for an interview. Lady attendant.
Advice and consultation free.
Hours: 9 to 5 daily.
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO.,
1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
Treatment by Post.
So carefully have
we arranged our
correspondence de-
partment that a
patient at any
point, no matter
how distant, can
receive the same
careful considera-
tion as though she
were able to visit
us every week.
IStOi
knowledge: is power
Thirty years of assiduous study of The Hair anti its Treatment, anti all
Capillary Diseases as they affect the Scalp anti Hair, have given me the means
of Preserving the Hair, and producing a new growth, after all other preparations
have failed.
Mr. Fred Peakman, of Wairoa, New Zealand, is another wonderful cgse. His hairdresser tells me
he had not a scrap of hair, and now, after a few months’ treatment with my preparations, lie has
got a splendid growth of hair.
Mr. O’Rourke, Wee Waa, New South Wales, writes: “My head, which was nearly bald, has now
come back to its usual growth.”
Mr. Sutherland states: “I had only a little down on my head when I commenced to use your
SPECIAL PARASENE and COSMO LOTION ; now I have a beautiful head of hair.”
Gentlemen who are going bald should use Special Parasene and Cosmo Lotion, one at
night and the other in the morning, and wash the head once a week with Shampuna.
Price (with postage, two months’ treatment): Victoria, 12/-; tour months, 22/G. Other
States, 12/6 and 23/6.
Ladies with hair falling out should apply Restorer at night, and Cosmo Lotion in the
morning, and wash the head as often as necessary with Shainpuna.
Naturaline is a splendid preparation for coloring Grey Hair. It acts quickly, naturally
and effectively, and is perfectly harmless. Made in all colors. Get the right strength.
No. 1 for Light Brown Hair; Medium for Medium Brown Hair.
No. 2 for Dark Brown or a Light Black ; Extra Strong for very Black Hair.
Price: Victoria, with postage, 6/3. Other States, 6/8.
E. HOLLAND,
Scalp and Hair Specialist,
195 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W.,
writes: —
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
"heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since 1 last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I d'o not have the least -desire to
smoke, therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizzi-
ness, Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which 1
have every reason to believe were caused through the
use of tobacco, have entirely, disappeared, and are
only remembered as a hideous nightmare. I eat
and sleep well, and feel fit to face the world again.
It will give me great pleasure to recommend your
remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
107 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
[i.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of Tiie Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Hava you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and teatimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact.THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic,
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austra-
lasian, Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
aud at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High IIol-
born, London, W.C., where thev can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Australian Autumn.
Me hardly know how fierce the Summer was.
Though fires have burnt the saplings red and
brown.
Swept through the bush and scorched the
withered grass,
And tumbled many a forest giant down,
For now March rains have fallen, and the
earth
Exults once more that late looked cere and
dead.
Exults with wonder of her second birth;
Life laughs, and fleecy clouds float overhead,
And Autumn comes with soft, green April
days
Pointed with dew, and misty moonlit nights;
\\ hile, by the fire, we watch the first logs
blnze.
And think we’re old, and dream of past de-
lights.
Loo perfect is the present hour, and so
We store its treasures for the days to be;
And then look back, though loath to let it
go,
Greedy for joys of future memory.
The sky is blue above the dim hilltops,
The creeks are chanting gipsy rhapsodies ;
Ploughed lands run side by side with spring-
ing crops,
The apples redden on the orchard trees.
The bracken glitters in a silver mist;
Hid in the fern-tree gully, drenched with
dew,
A spider’s web, a gleam of amethyst,
Swings, bough to bough, the mottled hazels
through.
Huge trees, by bush-fires burnt, lift blackened
boughs
Gaily embroidered with fresh, budding green;
The milkmaid calls the lazy-moving cows,
The birds round many a kitchen door are
seen.
Navvies are breaking stones along the road
To help the farmer’s cart through muddy
ways;
A team of bullocks strains with swaying load
Of mighty logs for coming Winter days.
Our little village dozes on the hill ;
And in the store the old wives never cease
To gossip over tales of good and ill;
While old men sit and smoke their pipes in
peace.
Season of respite from the fire and drought,
Season of calm, with Summer’s story told,
Seasou of beauty, when the stars are out,
The Autumn harmony of blue and gold,—
Season of joy, and sweeter than the Spring,
With old folk dreaming of the days gone by,
As we shall sit, some day, remembering
The music and the firelight, you and I !
And now the landscape waits the morning
sun,
The birds are singing by a hundred rills;
And little wanderers, shouting as they run.
Are gathering mushrooms on the grassy hills.
VICTORIA. .
LOUIS ESSON.
Lilian.
On, or near, accused the police found 10 large
firelighters, three flasks of paraffin oil, an electric
torch, a pocket-knife, a handbag containing about
141 b. of coal, each piece rolled up in paper, two
boxes of vestas, a roll of cotton-wool, a five-cham-
bered revolver loaded with blank cartridge, a map
of the Glasgow district, a bottle of perfume, several
overcoats and waterproofs, and a man’s cap.
—Suffragette item.
Airy, fairy Lilian —
Moonlight-flitting Lilian—
When they asked her what she wanted.
With her club she struck, undaunted,
At a bobby man.
She’ll not tell them what she wanted—
Naughty little Lilian !
When the owner seeks
Reasons for her act,
She, leaping wildly at him,
With her snickersnee would pat him—
Well for him it was he gat him!
Listen to her shrieks !
So innocent, so simple-cunning
Seems she —-till the oil is running!
Till the conflagrations rise !
You would say: “She's only funning.”
But you get a real surprise
When she scratches at your eyes!
When the wardress strips her dress—
Gentle little Lilian!
Everybody must confess
She is pretty thorough—Yes !
One in half a million;
For they find upon, or near, her
Things that keep on getting queerer—
Things that simply make you fear her—
Dainty little Lilian!
First a pistol; next a torch—
Three oil-cans (inside the porch)
Goal and matches, and a dagger—•
Good thing the police did bag her!
Hairpins, chewing-gum, fire-lighters—
Lip-salve of vermilion—-
Bonniest of Women’s-Righters—
Airy, fairy Lilian !
Poor old John Bull’s full of trouble !
Just now he is getting double,
Thanks to fairy Lilian!
On his right, the Arson Squad ;
On his left, the Carson Squad;
Back and front, the Parson Squad;
Care rides on John’s pillion !
For. alas ! —’tis sad to say—
Half the women of to-day
Seem to be distraught, or fey!
Whether bred in hall or skillion.
They “go on” like naughty Lilian,
Who has forfeited the benison
Once bestowed by Alfred Tennyson
In verse quite Virgilian:
Ay di mi!
The maid we see
Is ire-y
Fiery
Lilian!
N.S.W.
CLARENCE O’HAGAN.


aron
Cigarettes
The moments following: the ligfhtingf of a SARONY
CIGARETTE are moments of keenest delight to
both the connoisseur and the occasional cigarette
smoker, because of their fineness of quality and flavor.
In Turkish or Virginia.
All Leading Tobacconists.
Manufactured by NICOLAS SARONY 8 CO., New Bond Street, London, W.
A Well-Lighted Store Brings Crowds and Profits.
YOU should light YOUR Store with Electricity—you
can do it—there’s no need to wait until Electric Light
is installed by the Town Council. You can have an
Electric Lighting Plant of your own.
A “ Lister-Bruston ” Automatic
Electric Lighting Plant
(as illustrated complete) costs little
and generates Electricity automati-
cally. The Engine and Dynamo start
themselves as soon as the Lights are
switched on.
The Plant is self-contained and deliv-
ered practically ready for connecting
J
11 1
up to Shop Wiring. Don’t wait until
your Competitor gets his Store brilliantly lighted. Talk it over with us —either
in person or by post to-day.
AGENTS: N.S.W.—VV. G. WATSON & CO., LTD., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
VIC.—SUTHERLAND & ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —CLUTTER BUCK BROS., Adelaide.
JASON
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won't
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surelv with
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
s
MEG
Oy/vEs*^
£
WHY YOU SHOULD USE
REX LUNCHEON CHEESE
What is cheese? It is strange how seldom we turn to the dictionary for
definitions of common, daily-used terms. Can you define Cheese, Mrs.
Housewife? Do you know how it is made?
Cheese is the casein, or curd, of milk, coagulated, pressed and allowed to
dry in a mould. This literally defines
“REX” Luncheon Cheese
Defines its composition, its purity. But it doesn’t define its characteristics
—its betterness. “Bex” Luncheon Cheese is the result of most careful
preparation.'
The cheeses are carefully selected by us and properly matured without being
strong—for new cheese is always indigestible. Every cheese must come up to
these requirements—any that do not are discarded.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese is of the proper consistency and richness, and can
be spread without butter. It is therefore valuable from an economical
point, also. You should use “Rex” Luncheon Cheese for its value as a
food —its nutritive value —as well as for its cheapness and the time it saves
you. Try it to-day.
PROCURABLE at ALL GROCERS
in soz, Decorated Tins and Jars.
Jars are of opal glass, with aluminium screw top, and can be used for many
household purposes.
Other “Rex” Products procurable at all grocers are: —
“REX” CANNED DELICACIES
Ham Pate, M lb. tins,
Veal and Tongue Pate, % lb. tins,
Pork Brawn, lib. tins,
Pork Sausages, lib. tins,
Pork and Beans, 1 *4 lb. tins,
Pigs’ Feet, in Jelly, 11b. tins,
Lunch Tongues, in Jelly, lib. tins,
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese, soz. decorated tins and jars; and
“Rex” Brand Lard for Cooking Purposes, in Jib. prints.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Curers of "R«x” Hams and Bacon.
PacKers of “Rex** Delicacies.
MACINTOSHES
FOR
MEN, WOMEN
and CHILDREN.
Perdriau Macintoshes should appeal to
those who, when buying their clothing, seek
garments which will, by their excellent
quality, render a satisfactory and pleasing
service in every direction.
Our Waterproofs are made to please, will
wear well, and are guaranteed absolutely
waterproof.
Raglan. Derby.
Men’s Coats, in all the
latest shades of Browns,
Greys and Olives .. 37/6 35/-
Women’s Macintoshes, in Blue, Green and
Brown Materials 25/-
All Macintoshes are Carriage Paid.
V
1 A
1
'J£
( /kldtiaa.
RUBBER
CO. LTD.
270 George Street, Sydney. 305 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
67a Gawler Place, Adelaide. 307 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of "Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
%
' f
& Jr: '',l
&54
p
C'
11 ■ % ?;■ - 4
The Delaunay-Belleville
is a Fine Car.
The Colonial Models of the DELAUNAY-BELLEVILLE Cars are
handsome in appearance, comfortable to ride in, very powerful, great
hill-climbers, and extremely reliable. These Cars have always given
perfect satisfaction in Australia. They are built with an extra high
clearance, and for that reason are particularly serviceable over the
worst of roads.
The DELAUNAY-BELLEVILLE 4cvl„ IS-h.p. Car has four
cylinders cast in pairs, with enclosed valves. Bosch dual high-tension
magneto ignition. Delaunay-Belleville ( patented) forced lubrication.
Water-cooled —circulated by centrifugal pump. Patent combined jet
and surface carburetter, ensuring (where necessary) extremely slow
running and flexibility. Petrol Supply Gravity fed from tank on
dashboard. Rudge-Whitworth detachable wire wheels, with spare
wheel and tyre complete. Four speeds forward, with direct drive on
fourth; one reverse. Body: Five-seated Torpedo Touring Phaeton, or
other types if required. Upholstered in best leather.
Trial demonstration arranged by appointment. Descriptive literature
on request.
Dalgety and Company Ltd.,
Motor Garage:
136-138 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 35.—N0. 1795.
THURSDAY, JULY 9, 1914.
L’kicb Gd.
THE N.S.W. GOVERNMENT’S GREAT POLICY.
VOICE FROM BEHIND: “Say, Mister Holman, suppose I was to blow on the bottom card!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
leod* of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
f City 2389.
TELEPHONES: { CUy 2390 .
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
£1 6s. 6d. per Annum, including Special
Christmas Number, post paid.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty -
Six Shillings and Sixpence Sterling you can have
The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves ) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Hlack and AVhite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., J/J/l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt.. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide —at
1/6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in.
x llfin., and gelatine transparencies will be for-
warded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired.
Postage Bates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 160 z., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet—otherwise: Boz., Id., Bioz.
to 10oz., 2id.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, ioz.,
Id., and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JULY 9, 1914,
ABOUT A CLEAN-SHAVED YOUNG
MAN IN A HURRY.
The word “scab” is not easily defined, but
in the way of general acceptation it implies
a person who goes back on Trades Union
principles. The present N.S.W. Govern-
ment is supported by the trades unions, and
stands for a policy which was formulated
by their representatives, so when it turns
backslider or somersaulter on its professed
policy, it is presumably some variety of a
political scab. It is difficult to see that
it can be anything else. On a recent day
Premier Holman delivered the policy of his
Government for next session, and it was so
utterly different from the policy on which
Labor first attained to office that the two
schemes wouldn’t recognise each other if they
happened to meet in the busy mart. Yet
an amazing feature of the business is that
the party which supports Holman and co.
seems to have not the slightest objection to
the political lies and treachery which now
make up its daily fare. All the promises
that the public accounts would be made to
really and honestly balance; that borrowing
would be reduced, that a general sinking
fund would be established, that loan money
would be used only for works which returned
full interest and something over, that the
foolish old Upper House would be wiped
out, that something genuine and vigorous
would be done in the way of decentralisa-
tion —all these are still proving of no more
value than an exploded paper bag. And the
boasted Arbitration policy, as a remedy for
strikes, has been practically abandoned, for
everybody strikes when he feels that way
inclined, and nobody of the crowd which
supports Holman takes any notice of
Arbitration Courts unless it suits him to do
so. Yet so long as the party now in power
enjoys such amazing and unaccountable luck
at second ballots it is difficult to see how
it can be shifted, no matter how virulently
it may turn its back on its alleged pro-
gramme.
* * * *
The Holman Government has a great pull
in the half-hearted support and the less
than half-hearted opposition of the Tory daily
papers of Sydney. Sydney is a great city,
and the people of N.S.W. put a great value
on it. It is a city owned by private land-
lords, and the unearned increment of it goes
to private landlords. In the interests of
the community it might seem worth while
to have four Sydneys instead of one, and
there are three ports, at present shut off
from commerce and settlement by the lack
of roads and railways, at which three new
Sydneys might arise. At these ports the
State might be ground landlord, and the
ground rents and the unearned increment
might provide a revenue that would go a
long way to shift the public burden. Also
the prosperity of the adjacent places might
be greatly multiplied, for many fertile dis-
tricts of the State are losing population, and
giving up wheat, and perishing in the matter
of cattle and sheep and pigs, simply because
they are so far from Sydney that trade
doesn’t pay. The Holman Government,
by way of pretending to pursue its
alleged decentralisation policy, threatens to
make a new outlet —not at Port Stephens
or Jervis Bay or Twofold Bay, where there
are real possibilities—but at the hopelesss
open roadstead of Coff’s Harbor, which is
worth about the price of an old hat. So
it throws five stones at one fowl in a manner
of speaking: (1) It avoids any unpleasant
struggle to support its policy of State owner-
ship of land; (2) it avoids doing anything
large and embarrassing in the way of settle-
ment; (3) it doesn’t annoy the rich and
influential landlords of Sydney; (4) it
doesn’t get out of the old rut, and getting out
of the old rut is a strenuous business; and
(5) it doesn’t quarrel with the important
Tory press whose chief interests lie in the big
city. So long as the Holman Government
doesn’t break in on the commercial and manu-
facturing monopoly of the one unreasonably-
bloated city, the Tory press of that city isn’t
likely to oppose it in anything like dead
earnest, even if the results of the second
ballot look somewhat improbable and the
£4 a day paid to ex-Minister Nielsen seemed
to make that one-time supporter a bloated
capitalist and a notable variety of absentee.
* * * *
The programme for next session is no
small affair. It includes the Sydney-North
Shore bridge, which has been talked about to
no purpose for more than 50 years. This
is a work to which no possible objection can
be taken, except that it is apparently to be
built with borrowed money, and the bridge
will wear out much faster than the loan.
Then there is something about an under-
ground railway system for Sydney, which is
also essential, but unhappily it is also to
be built with borrowed money, and nothing
is said about any possible or probable repay-
ment thereof. Fourteen new railways are
in course of construction, with borrowed
money, and they all point towards the city
which is already so congested that it can’t
deal in any satisfactory way with the traffic
that reaches it now. The work of
duplicating the railways which lead into
and out of the city is to be pushed
forward vigorously with borrowed money,
regardless of the fact that the exist-
ing railways have ceased to be a payable
proposition. The miserably unsatisfactory
port which leads its silted existence along-
side the private-landlord-owned town of New-
castle is to have more good loan cash spent
upon it. There are altogether about 70
propositions in the programme. Half of
them represent a razzle of borrowing—one
before which every previous razzle will pale
its' ineffective fires. The other half consist
mostly of social reforms which, if done with
a rush and charged up all at once to a very
small population, would beggar even a highly
efficient Treasurer. What the effect will be on
the present inefficient crowd, with its mar-
vellous gift of getting one “bob’s” worth of
service for 2s. 6d., can hardly be imagined.
Again, if the schemes are not mere window-
dressing—if they are to be carried out within
any reasonable space of time —they must be
thrown together in the helter-skelter fashion
which provides much profit for the legal pro-
fession and much wild astonishment for the
community. Even the greatest artist seldom
turns out 70 masterpieces in a year—or at
least he doesn’t sell 69 of them before they
are painted—and the Clean-Shaved Young
Man in a Hurry who is at the head of affairs
in Sydney, hasn’t yet been mistaken for the
greatest possible artist.
* * * *
When the Millennium arrives at full speed
the day after to-morrow —when it enters
breathless by reason of haste, and with its
collar burst because of velocity—this is
some of the luggage it is to bring along
with it. The barbarous old death penalty
is to be abolished. This at least is a good
thing: and even the most foolish and
hurried Government can hardly draft its
Bill so badly as to provide in mistake that
the criminal will be suspended by the feet
instead of not being suspended at all. There
is to be a Greater Sydney Council at last;
some more Arbitration; a Building Act;
four different Mining Bills; Police Appeal
Bill; Railway Servants Appeal Bill; Bills
dealing with explosives, motor traffic; and
the careless habit of pointing pea-rifles at
strangers. Also a new Civil Service Super-
annuation measure is to eventuate, though
whether it will or will not be prefaced by a
repayment to the older civil servants of the
money which the former Superannuation
Fund so artfully pushed them out of doesn’t
appear. The insolvency of that ancient
Fund was so persistently advertised that
many officials, believing the provision for
their old age to be almost certainly gone
after years of compulsory contribution, were
ready to compromise at almost any price.
And the price they got was permission to
leave off throwing their contributions at what
seemed to be a dead horse, and a promise that
the money they had actually paid in would
be refunded with simple interest at 3 per
cent., when they retired or died. And many
old men are still waiting to get their own
money back with simple interest at 3 per
cent. The non-payable housing schemb at
Daceyville is to be extended —whether on
payable or non-payable lines doesn’t appear.
State ironworks and State manufacture of
agricultural implements are promised, and
but for the Holman Administration’s
lamentable tendency to run everything at a
loss, nothing could be more commendable.
More education is to happen, more hospitals,
more bush nursing, more irrigation, bulk
handling of wheat, more immigration, reform
of the State Legislature, research into such
matters as cancer, consumption and syphilis,
and. many sundries. Two new salaried Min-
isters are to be appointed, making 10 in all.
And an effort is to be made at the reduc-
tion of the cost of living by eliminating the
middleman. This doesn’t, apparently, mean
the foreign importer, for the Holman crowd
is largely Freetrade, and never seems to use
any influence it may possess to damage the
importing person. Nor does it refer as yet
to the city ground landlord, who is allowed,
by reason of the great congestion policy, to
charge £7OO or £l7OO or so, for a foot front-
age of bare dirt, kerosene tins. Nor
does it seem to have any bearing on the person
like Holman, who is so fond of putting 200
miles of needless railway and any number
of needless middlemen —drivers, firemen,
station-masters," clerks, maintenance men,
makers of rails and engines and sundries —
between the producer and' the consumer.
In fact, it is hard to say exactly which
middleman is aimed at.
* * * *
Incidentally there is a great land-settle-
ment scheme, millions of acres of suitable
soil having been “discovered.” This makes
the community all the more interested to
learn the reason of a recent very costly
resumption in which two members of the
Holman party in Parliament are said to
have figured as paid agents. And there are
many other reforms and schemes and devices
which are, unfortunately, crowded out. But
over them all hangs the shadow of the
Stupendous Loan —the Gigantic' Borrow.
The public works depend directly and
entirely on the goodwill of the foreign
Coiien. The splendid revenue, which is to
cover all the things which even the Clean-
Shaved Young Man in a Hurry hasn’t the
front to charge to loans, is, to the extent
probably of one-third or one-half, the result
of the circulation of loan money. The new
loan will float, and the old one will re-float,
so long as the big Cohen can profitably
peddle out the securities to small investors.
Some day the small investor may want his
money to invest in some of Lloyd George’s
schemes. He may want it to take up his
own war-loans. He may want it to take up
the war-loans of other countries, when two
or three Great Powers are driven to throw
themselves on the money market at 6 or 7
per cent. He may strike financial dis-
aster of his own. And he may. through local
stress, lose faith in his ability to protect
his Australasian investments. For Australasia
is a very long way from Bull, and its
defences are not yet first-class, and if trouble
comes to-morrow Bull may either have to
write off his loans as a bad debt, or spend
more than the loans are worth to protect
them —or else tell the alien that he can have,
this country provided all British financial
interests are respected. There are half a
dozen possibilities which might bring down
Holman’s house of cards, and many another
house of cards, inside 24 hours. And some
of them are very possible possibilities.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Prinzip Does Monarchy a Good Turn.
By emptying his revolver into the bodies
of the Archduke Ferdinand of Austria and
his wife, the Servian student has
helped to put every monarch in Europe more
firmly on his throne, and, incidentally, to
give the Hapsbubg family a chance of hold-
ing its place in Austria-Hungary for another
generation. What the king-worshipping press
of the world calls “a thrill of horror” has
made Europe shiver since this futile murder
was committed, and there is not a sovereign
in that continent, respectable or disreputable,
who has not been able in consequence to make
a greater claim upon the people who main-
tain him in his ornamental altitude. An ex-
ception should perhaps be made for the Ger-
man princlet, William Wied, half-king of
Albania, who seems incapable of deserving
either sympathy or respect in any circum-
stances, since his specialty consists in run-
ning away from his job as soon as it looks
dangerous. The other kings, with the assist-
ance of effective cordons of police and sol-
diers, at least stand up to the risk of assassi-
nation ; and, when one of them goes down,
the “thrill of horror” aforesaid is a fine
monarchial asset for the survivors. It was
remarked by Nietzsche some time ago that
since the princes of Europe had been shot at
by Anarchists they had sat more safely on
their thrones; for the Thrill hereinbefore-
mentioned is the best antidote yet discovered
for the spirit of revolution or republicanism.
If kings were just left to themselves to
demonstrate by what right or reason the
crown should • descend from one of them to
his son, they would soon destroy all the
Divinity That Doth Hedge. Kaiser Bill’s
immense egotism would help to work out its
own consequences. In crowned persons less
presentable than Bill, monarchy tends to
die from sheer ridiculousness. No institu-
tion could live down the perpetual foolish-
ness of kings, which makes their august state-
liness of environment a comic opera; as, for
example, that merry old King of Denmark,
who when an ambassador bowed low before
him hopped from his high seat of state and
played leapfrog over the bent back; or
Alfonso of Spain, a high-spirited young
monarch with a sense of humor, exercised
in belching three times into the face of a
French envoy, each belch louder than the
one before it. If monarchs didn’t become
obsolete through their own imbecility, or the
imbecility of the system they stand for, the
destructive work would be done by their
panegyrists, whose sickly and hypocritical
praise, packed with what nine-tenths of the
“loving subjects” know to be absurd false-
hood, is nauseating enough to make republi-
cans out of men who previously acquiesced
in monarchy as a convenient enough plan of
government. Either by themselves or with
the aid of their flatterers, monarchs taken
by-and-large would soon sink so far that the
pawnshops of Europe would be full of
crowns labelled “Unredeemed Pledge.” But
when Prinzip comes along to fill a prince
and his harmless wife with lead, the emo-
tional string is strummed all through the
world, and the company of unnecessary, ex-
pensive, stupid, imbecile, epileptic or ego-
maniac persons known as kings hold a fresh
mortgage on popular toleration.
Anglicanism Remains True to Its
Traditions,
A score or more of Anglican parsons signed
a maniresto, or round robin, or cock robin
or something in Sydney last week, calling
upon the British Government , to withhold
Home Rule from Ireland “in the name* of
Christ” and Protestantism. The toilers in
the vineyard of Anglicanism had presum-
ably to hnd some justification for the Tory-
ism which has always been in them. Their
Church has ever ranged itself behind the
stout person with cash to put in the collec-
tion plate, and it has very consistently im-
bibed the latter’s political views and im-
pressed the virtue of the same on the poor,
together with the adjuration that they (the
poor) should be humble and respectful to
their betters and eagerly thankful for any
kind of a wage. Unionism happens to be
the rich man’s traditional creed all over the
Empire. To be hostile to Home Rule is as
much a matter of good form, almost, in
the circles in which the miserable, half-
starved little Anglican cleric desires to win
approval, as the habits of dressing for
dinner and not going to theatre first-nights
in bathing suits. And so, as aforesaid, the
parsons had to advance some sort of argu-
ment in its favor —just as in the past they
were impelled to contend in the name of
Christ on behalf of Individualism (the
antithesis of the Christian spirit) and the
custom of importing goods made by the in-
habitants of Roman Catholic countries. But
the “religious” argument, as applied to Home
Rule, is even thinner than the same argu-
ment as it was applied in the past to Immi-
gration Restriction legislation, the White
Australia ideal and so forth. In that tiny
portion of Ulster where political discussion
amounts really to a sort of chronic tribal
warfare the religious argument is a useful
standby. Both sides know that it means
absolutely nothing, bat it serves as a plaus-
ible excuse for the row which is the heart’s
desire of every able-bodied male. In the
eyes of untravelled Australians it may have
a certain surface plausibility, inasmuch as
practically all the local priests are Irish and
poor, which is to say adherents of the un-
fashionable party. But if in the home of
Anglicanism or in Scotland or Wales a par-
son tried to associate the Vatican with
Home Rule he would be laughed at for a
fraud or an ignoramus. The simple reason
is that, in these countries, the Catholics
being mostly extremely rich, are just so
often as they are affluent, virulently Union-
ist in their politics. The Duke of Norfolk,
the acknowledged leader of the English
‘Catholics, is about the most bigoted anti-
Home Ruler in the House of Lords. Lord
Edmund Talbot is his prototype, in this
respect, in the Commons. The Butes,
Lovats, Denbighs, Stonors, Stourtons, de
Traffortjs and practically every other
Catholic family of social prominence in the
United Kingdom stand four-square in furious
hostility to the cause which the hedge-parsons
of Sydney claim to be the cause of Rome.
Notoriously the chief test in this matter is
one of class. Most of the ablest leaders of
the Home Rule movement have been Pro-
testants —poor, or, at any rate, far from
rich Protestants. The strongest supporters
of the movement in England, Scotland and
Wales are Protestants —poor Protestants of
the Nonconformist breed. On the other
hand, in Ireland the movement is backed
chiefly by Catholics —poor Catholics.
Anglicanism does not hate Home Rule be-
cause it dreads Rome, but for the reason
that it loves “respectability.” The absurd
manifesto-signing clerics of Sydney do not
fear an auto-da-fe in Belfast, or any im-
becility of that sort, but they are very much
concerned to prove to their congregations
Votes for the Word.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bro. O. R. Snowball, of Brighton, appeals to Vic-
torian electors to make the introduction of Bible
readings into State Schools the only question during
the forthcoming campaign. [P.S. —The candidates
who feature Bible reading are all gentlemen of pro-
nounced Conservative instincts.]
The Earth a school is, nothing more,
In which we’re called on to prepare
To live upon the Golden Shore.
That’s why the Snowballs do not care
A button for material things.
They value only harps and wings,
Yet, all unselfish, bid us plan
For Bible pleasures,
While they endure as best they can
Some carnal treasures.
Give heed to what the Brother says;
Show scorn for every godless cause ;
Care nothing for the current craze.
Nought else is worth a brace of straws,
But that the children in the schools
Shall be well trained in all the rules
Planned by the prophets, and not fail,
Each lad and donah,
When catechised about the whale
That swallowed Jonah.
Those common men, it’s understood,
Whose platform’s built of bread and cheese,
Who strive for nought but fleshly good,
Are all your deadly enemies.
Abjure them quickly. Be not fools.
Vote hard for Bibles in the schools.
So you will sei’ve the crew that clings
To notions Tory,
And gaily strives for worldly things
While you seek Glory,
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


that they are on the side of the financial
and social angels. Anglican parsons have
always adopted this snobbish line, and they
will continue to do so presumably till they
have driven the last disgusted democrat from
their Church for life.
■
The Agitator in the Top Hat.
There was a public meeting in Sydney last
week, with the wholly admirable object of
drawing attention to the sufferings of ani-
mals on stock trains. The miserable old
party question had no place in such a gather-
ing—no more than it would have in an
assemblage which was attending to the vic-
tim of a street accident, or trying to resusci-
tate the half-drowned. Thus while the chair-
man was F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C., a prom-
inent Liberal, one of the chief speakers was
George Black, Laborite. All went well
and reasonably until it came to the turn of
the egregious Onslow, M.L.A., to speak.
Onslow is one who seeks to make up in
violence, of speech what he lacks in the mut-
ter of ideas and intelligence. He is the
mob orator of N. S. Wales Toryism, the Ben
Tillett of the affluent, the Harry Holland
of the pi’operty-owning classes. He is the
loud, blatant advocate of the idiotically im-
practicable, and the tireless assailant of the
irrevocable. In nine cases out of 10, when
Onslow gets up to speak on any public mat-
ter, his contribution is as valueless as though
a donkey had brayed in the wilderness. The
customary occurred at the King’s Hall meet-
ing last week. Onslow had no suggestions
to offer whereby the unhappy animals, whose
dreadful Calvary is the iron road to the sale-
yards, might have their agonies alleviated.
llis notion of good philanthropy and decent
behavior was to exploit the meeting for the
purposes of making an assault upon the prin-
ciples of his political opponents. The fol-
lowing is a sample from his oration:—
Since Private Enterprise had failed [as re-
gards establishing up-country freezing works to
relieve the city congestion] 'the State might step
in and make it a success at the expense of everyone in
the State. (Laughter.) Were the railways admin-
istered by a private company some officer would years
ago have been fined in the police courts, but the
Government seemed to have a free license to perpe-
trate atrocities on dumb animals. It was a scandal
and a shame that they suffered their servants to
commit these outrages.
Onslow knows perfectly well that there is
nothing of value to be gained by inflaming
the public mind against the railway men. It
is the system, and not they, who are to blame.
But he is a party man first, and a fair-
sportsman a mile or so afterwards,
lhe system of crowding everything to Syd-
ney is one which he upholds, both as a big
city property owner and as a faithful Wade-
lte - By representing that State railways
and the State’s railway employees are re-
sponsible for the infamies which occur con-
stantly in the neighborhood of Sydney and
Melbourne, he both casts dust in the eyes of
those who take him seriously, and buttresses
his burst old anti-Socialistic creed to a cer-
tam extent. He deceives his followers —if
he has any—into imagining that if they get
new railway servants there will be no need
for decentralisation, so far as averting the
torture of travelling stock is concerned ; and
he lays before the public the proposition that
otatc railways are a failure. It is dema-
goguery of the Tory sort, in its most nau-
seating form. The brightest railway staff
that the world has known could do nothing
worth mentioning to avert the inhumanity
to which last week’s meeting drew atten-
tion, .and the bellowings of 10,000 volunteer
warriors must be powerless to induce any
Australian State to retrogress so far as to
once more adopt the discredited private enter-
prise railway system of Britain and the
United States. Onslow knows these things
perfectly well,, just as he knows that his
extravagant railings against compulsory ser-
vice and the Australian navy will not have
the least effect in the way of persuading the
Commonwealth to change its established De-
fence policy. He never expects to
achieve anything. His highest aim is to
create a disturbance; to advertise himself;
and to make things as unpleasant as possible
for the Opposition, regardless of all consid-
erations. of fair play or public policy. Only
the accident of inherited wealth has kept
this congenital mob-orator from the place
where he rightly belongs—namely, a pitch in
the Domain or on the Yarra Bank.
The Half-Breed.
King Hall, the last Admiral of John
Bull’s navy in these parts, gave the Nine-
teenth Century an article on the Aus-
tralian baby-navy when he got back to
British waters. With leanings towards
Exeter Hall and the idea of “Imperial
brotherhood,” it took King Hall some
time to become a thorough-going White Aus-
tralian ; but he got there in the end:—
Professedly Australia is a Christian country, with
the highest ideals of womanhood, ethics and
morality, however imperfectly such may be carried-
out; on the other hand, although amongst the races
whom it is desired to exclude from the country
there are many individuals who ean and do set a
high standard of rectitude and morality to many
professed Christians, yet in the mass their moral
ideas, their treatment of women, their standard
of living-, and their customs generally are much
inferior to those of the white race living in Aus-
tralia ; hence the intense, passionate desire to avoid
any danger of a lowering of ideals.
The Commonweal, the paper in which
Annie Besant nowadays prattles her beau-
tiful platitudes about “universality” and
Nirvana and other spooks, tells King Hall
that his remarks “will enhance the bitter-
ness that exists in all Indian hearts and
minds on this question of color bar.” But
why feel bitterness towards Australia? Aus-
tralia isn’t responsible for the color bar.
That was invented away back in the begin-
ning of things, and Australia merely
accepted the fact. Christianity needn’t be
dragged into the matter either; the fact
that we are a professedly Christian country
has nothing to do with it. It isn’t a matter
of religious creed ; it is a matter of racial
purity—of preserving the lines which for
some reason or other Nature (call it what
you like) laid down a few million years ago.
And history shows that Nature was right.
No mixed people are of any account what-
ever. Even the Commonweal refers pity-
ingly to the half-breeds of India: “The
Eurasian population is a living monument
to Christian ethics and morality.” Very
well; take it that way. Admit that the
Christian ethics and moi. Is of Australia
are nc be-tter than the Britisher’s ethics
and morals were when the Eurasian was
started on his journey. What then? Is
India so proud of its Eurasians that it
would start a second crop of them in
another land? If the Commonweal could
have prevented the Eurasian mixed breed,
would it have done so? And if it would
have done so, how would it propose to set
about the job except in the way Australia
has taken?
The Decentralisation Sham.
“Leo Lear” : The most diabolical thing
about decentralisation is that the more it
is talked of the less it decentralises. Of
late years every Victorian politician from
15in. calibre down to pea-rifle size has
mouthed the advantages of decentralisation,
and told us how it is working at last by
reason of his Parliamentary exertions, and
how the country districts have now a chance
to expand even unto the bursting of their
belts. Well, this is how overseas shipping
has expanded from year to year in the Vic-
torian harbor of Portland. In Feb., 1902,
the deep-water pier was opened for traffic,
and during that year 13 boats hooked on
and dragged out £92,700 worth of produce.
The table will show what all the flow of
decentralisation talk has been worth to
Portland since then :
Produce
No. of Vessels. Shipped.
1903 .. .. 20 £104,478
1904 .... 8 56,620
1905 .. ~ 9 81,914
1906 .. . . 12 96,276
1907 .. .. 12 65,825
1908 .. .. 12 128,174
1909 .. .. 11 91,728
1910 .. .. 10 94,931
1911 .. .. 11 81,354
1912 .... 8 56,712
1913 .... 3 28,152
It seems to me that the only way to stop the
rot is to make it a penal offence for any
politician to take any credit (1) for believ-
ing in decentralisation, or (2) for anything
he alleges he has done for decentralisation
without producing sworn figures to support
his claim. When he is compelled to show
that he has done so much for decentralisa-
tion that the oversea trade of the principal
Victorian outport (or what should be the
principal outport) has shrunk two-thirds in
a few years, the politician may conclude
that it is safer to shut his face on that sub-
ject until he has really done something. By
reason of strange railway devices, worked
from Melbourne, it costs about three times
as much to send goods a certain distance to
be shipped at Portland as to send them the
same distance to be shipped at Melbourne.
And while that state of things lasts all the
talk about decentralisation is dust and
ashes and rags and dead peanuts and a
whited sepulchre.
The Exaltation of the Tail.
The N.S.W. Ministry has greatly exalted its
tail, which now looks as if it had been boiled
and starched and ironed, over the finances of
the year which has just closed. Yet some
people would be inclined to tie a brass bed-
stead to the tail, in order to stop its absurd
elevation. The income for the year to Juno
30, 1914, was £3,864,364 above that of the
year which ended on June 30, 1910. With all
this extra money to spend an ordinary sort
of Government might possibly have pulled
through, but as the expenditure increased by
£4,653,355, this one didn’t pull worth a row
of pins. Being badly shocked and broken
up it started to economise, not in its borrow-
ings, or its profligacy or its political drinkings,
but in its honesty. The money allotted out
of the year’s surplus for Public Works pur-
poses was cut down from £575,000 to nothing.
The money allotted in the same way for
Closer Settlement purposes was cut down
from £235,000 to nothing. The very humble
amount which used to be set aside out of
revenue for the reduction of the Public Debt
diminished from £421,034 to £5631, an alleged
saving of £415,403, but a very poor kind of
saving on the part of a Government which
had blown so big a trumpet about honest
finance, and about its cast-iron and boiler-
metal resolve to build up the sinking fund
and put every item of the Public Debt on. a
square, decent, respectable, repayable basis.
Having thus transferred over £1,200,000 of
what used to be ordinary expenditure to
loans, and left all this bill in the old cowardly
fashion for the infant to pay, the Holman
Government managed to show an alleged ex-
cess of revenue over expenditure of £373,030.
It wasn’t the sort of surplus that any decent
Ministry could have felt proud of, but it was
a trifle better than nothing. There is still a
large accumulated shortage, but that is a
matter for the future. Almost everything
is a matter for the future.
+.
The Financier publishes an annual Em-
pire number —a couple of pounds’ weight of
literature heavily subsidised by Australian
and other “Colonial” Governments. In the
last issue, just to hand, John Bull is
strongly advised to export capital:—
So obvious are the advantages that they hardly
need to be enumerated. In the first place, by lending
large sums to other lands we apply a powerful
stimulus to our industrial production. The reader
scarcely needs to be told that when capital is ex-
ported it does not go, as even to-day many ill-
informed persons suppose, in the form of golden
sovereigns. That statement is sufficiently proved by
the fact that year by year the imports of bullion and
specie into the United Kingdom exceed the exports,
or, in other words, show a favorable balance. We
could not, even if we would, lend hard cash to
would-be borrowers. Those who take capital from
us accept in discharge of the obligation the products
of our faotories and our workshops. In this way by
lending to foreign and colonial borrowers we inci-
dentally create a demand for our manufactures, and
thus serve to keep our great industries busily em-
ployed. At the same time we add substantially to
the national income, by placing upon the nations
which have borrowed from us the obligation of pay-
ing the interest on their loans. Interest, too, comes
to us in the form of goods, furnishing food for our
people and raw materials for our industries.
For home consumption the Financier was
quite right to head these remarks “The Ad-
vantages of Exporting Capital.” On the
other hand, for the foreign consumption of
a country which wants manufactures and
people the thing ought obviously to be
labelled “Disadvantages bf Importing Capi-
tal,” and the text put into plain language
would run like this: —
When you import capital you don’t get it. What
you do is to give work to foreign factories, which
supply you with goods that you ought to be making
yourselves. After that, you’ll pay no interest, in
goods of course; but as we don’t want your manufac-
tures (and as you couldn’t compete with ours in
any case, because you’ve been busy making our in-
dustries strong and your own weak), you’ll oblige
us by sending raw materials to keep our factories
going. In short, this scheme of “importing capital”
is one for kcaping the big manufacturing population
in Europe, while you remain a country with a few
million people addicted mostly to growing wool.
♦—
One night last week Prime Minister Cook
spoke at Cootamundra (N.S.W.). This is
what the Sydney Telegraph thought about
it the next morning:—
A group of Liberals, including the Prime Minister,
last night invaded the electorate of the State Premier.
Mr. Cook came specially from Melbourne to address
the meeting, and met with an enthusiastic reception.
A few days later it became necessary to shake
the Liberals up a bit, so the D.T. printed
this concerning the same meeting:—
When Mr. Cook walked into the Cootamundra Town
Hall on Monday night, not a voice was raised ; not
a hand was moved. It was a cold, wet, heavy night,
but it was a colder, heavier, more depressing audi-
ence to which the Prime Minister spoke. Hardly a
cheer, hardly a sound of approval broke the monotony
of the oratorical drip. A big audience listened
sullenly. Had the speakers been prescribing doses of
nasty medicine for each individual in the crowd, the
interest could hardly have been less enthusiastic or
more academic. It was the dullest, deadliest audi-
ence that Mr. Cook has addressed for years.
“Hardly a cheer, hardly a sound of ap-
proval” ! Still it was “an enthusiastic re-
ception”—until for the same old dishonest
party purpose it became advisable to de-
scribe it as something else.
The Tariff Commission lately rubbed up
against paint, with the usual unpleasant
consequences. Manufacturer F. J. Hodges,
of Marrickville (Sydney), asked folr lan
increase in the duty on lcalsomine. He
mentioned that the retail price of the goods
in New York was from 2s. to 2s. 6d. per
51b. packet, yet the same stuff was exported
to Sydney and sold at Is. ln order to
get a market the local manufacturer had to
sell at 20 per cent, below the inferior dumped
American article, because the lie that “Aus-
tralia can’t make it” still sticks with great
adhesiveness to the paint trade. Said he: —
I meet this sort of thing every day. Everybody’s
doing it, even the Government. (Laughter.) As
an example, I may mention that my material was
used at State Government House recently—at Cran-
brook —with satisfactory results. Yet I go into the
suburbs, where men are building duck-houses —
(laughter)—and I have to smuggle my material in
early in the morning before the arrival of the Clerk
of Works. The specifications stipulate for the
imported article. (Laughter.)
There seems to have been a large quantity
of “laughter” mixed with the proceedings,
but there was really nothing to laugh about.
The fact of an Avistralian manufacturer
being blocked out by foreign competition
isn’t a jest—it is a disgrace. And if, as
appears from the evidence, a Government
that is allegedly in office to help the Aus-
tralian worker is a party to the knocking
out by using imported paint, then the dis-
grace is too disgraceful to be mentioned in
respectable type.
+
“Carburetter” : The N.S.W. Navigation
Department, after protesting for 14 years
that it hadn’t power to control motor-boats
plying for hire, has launched a set of regu-
lations dealing with these craft which ought
to fill up the stomach of a long-felt want,
although considerable objection has been
raised to the manning scale. On June 30
the biggest motor-boat could have been
driven by a schoolboy. Now, a motor-boat
up to 40ft. must have a certificated driver
and coxswain, in one person; if over 40ft.,
in separate persons; while a motor-boat over
25h.p. must carry, at least, a second-class
engineer. Yet the Navigation Department’s
own law provides that a coast-trade passen-
ger ship, not exceeding 50h.p., need carry
only a third-class engineer. Further, the new
regulations allow a third-class certificate-
holder to drive a ferry steamer of unlimited
horse-power from Parramatta to Manly, or
from one end of the Clarence River to the
other, and Sydney’s ferry-boats carry 1600
passengers at times. Yet the same man
may not take a motor-boat of 25h.p. across
Port Jackson with dead sheep on board.
The authority which provides such indis-
tinction is likely to be addressed disrespect-
fully as a Williamgoat. In fact, I hereby
call it a Williamgoat to its beard.
“Umph” : An unsatisfactory position was
occasioned by Sydney Coroner Fitz-
hardinge in his verdict as to a patient
named Brown, who died in Parramatta
Hospital for the Insane on June 6, eight
days after his admission. When the medi-
cal officers examined Brown’s body it was
found that nine ribs were broken, his kid-
neys and bladder ruptured, and there were
other internal injuries. The medical evi-
dence showed that the deceased could, not
have lived more than 48 hours in his injured
state, therefore he must have received the
damage in the hospital. By an unfortunate
coincidence, Brown’s medical attendant, the
only man likely to throw any light on the
cause of the injuries, dropped dead from
heart disease before the inquest. Whatever
theory the Hospital officers and attendants
had of the accident, or occurrence, they suc-
ceeded in keeping to themselves, and after
satisfying the Coroner that Brown was care-
fully looked after and had had every atten-
tion, that official found that he had died
from broken ribs, caused no man knew how.
Now, nine ribs aren’t easily broken all at
once. A man carefully looked after might
sprain an ankle or even crack his skull
without anyone being able to know how he
did it, but for a strong man to get six ribs
on one side and three on the other fractured
in a public hospital is a curious and dis-
turbing circumstance. It was admitted that
Brown had been forcibly fed and forcibly
strapped up in a straight jacket, but whether
any of these forcible measures accounted for
the wreckage of the man’s bones did not
transpire. In fact, the amount of informa-
tion that has not transpired about this busi-
ness calls for a divining rod and seven black
trackers. Premier Holman has decreed
that the privately-controlled mental asylum
is to be abolished as being beyond super-
vision. I want to ask Holman if he is sure
he can spare any supervision from the State
asylums.
Randolph Bedford writes :
The double dissolution was an excellent thing for
Joseph Suhface Cook if only because it suppressed
the Teebdale Smith inquiry, as all Royal Commis-
sions die with a Parliament. A contract was let in
face of the known fact that cheaper track-forming
had been done by day-labor and the Castles machine
employed on the Transcontinental by the former
Government. The Castles machine did 4874 chains
of track-forming, including excavation, at a cost of
265. per chain. The replies of the Home Affairs
Department to Bamfohd’s questions as to the relative
cost of the machine and of pick-and-shovel or scoop
gangs (which are Teebdale Smith’s methods of work-
ing under contract) were: “Surface-forming has cost
approximately 4s. per chain less by the machine than
by hand labor; excavation in cutting has cost,
approximately, 60 per cent, less by the machine than
by hand labor; and excavation in side-cutting has
cost, approximately, 50 per cent, less by the machine
than by hand labor.’’ Actual figures of the work
of the machine on the Port Augusta job were 22,886
cubic yards of earthworks in five days, at a cost of
£264 9s. 6d., equal to 2 2-3 d. per yard, or 11s. 2d.
a chain. The lowest payment under the Teesdale
Smith contract is 2s. 6d. a yard ; embankment costs
4s. 6d. a yard, and if he shifts the spoil more than
two chains there is an extra 2s. 6d. a yard. Yet the
machine, which averages from 600 to 1000 cubic
yards per hour, lifting it to a height of 26ft. and
delivering it 40ft. away, was put out of commission
at the first sign of necessity for repairs, with no
apparent reason but the desire to discredit the day-
labor system that accompanied the machine. The
sacred contract system had to be reinstituted at a
cost of 2s. 6d. a yard against 2 2-3 d. a yard. Thus,
where political exigencies dictate, the very eco-
nomical Cook Government throws away half a crown
for less than threepenn’orth of work.
Great Britain, which pays the biggest naval
and military defence bill in the world, and
also the biggest in all history, finds its bur-
dens rather heavy. It is announced that
next year the income-tax on incomes derived
from property will be Is. 4d. in the £, with
a super-tax on big incomes and an extra
super-tax on bigger incomes. If only
George of Britain and William of Germany
would toss for the two thrones, and the win-
ner take both, and the loser be made an
Archduke, and the two armies and navies
be united, and the two countries agree on a
common language —if these things were done
some £50,000,000 a year might be saved in
the joint defence bill. Quite a heap of things
may be done with £50,000,000 a year.
♦
“Pennywise” puts the case for one of Aus-
tralia’s most useful citizens : —■
Apropos of the pay of area-officers, an amend-
ment has at last been added to the existing regula-
tion, providing for an increase of £3O per annum
after three years’ service as an area-officer. As
an example of downright, unreasonable stinginess
this would be hard to equal. When universal training
began, the area-officers, .with their inadequate staffs,
rounded up the thousands of undisciplined young-
sters, pared the savagery off them, and bucked in
and put the job through in such a fashion that at
the end of the first year the business was a pro-
nounced success. In no country in the world could
it have been done better. The work entailed an
enormous amount of administration beside the stren-
uous job of training, and the Area Staff usually con-
sisted of the A.O. and his sergeant-major. If one
fell sick or died the other fellow would be left to
carry on alone for a month or so, a state of affairs
which still exists. In addition to the work, the
A.O. is responsible for hundreds of pounds’ worth
of stores. If someone’s carelessness leads to the loss
of any of these articles, the A.O. takes the punch.
He might, according to Financial and Allowance
Regulations, have to stand court-martial if careless-
ness is proved. Then this offlcer-of-all-trades must
conduct prosecutions for all units. He must always
parade with Senior Cadets, and with any other regi-
ment that wants him, from Light Horse to Infan-
try. If he is instructed to turn out with Light
Horse, as many of the A.O.’s who formerly belonged
to that arm have been in the past, he has to pay
his own horse hire. The only allowance he is
entitled to is travelling, at the rate of 12s. 6d. per
diem when away from headquarters. A small coun-
try area may contain 1500 square miles; some are
four times as large. The officer is responsible for
the registration of every 14-year-old boy in the area.
He claims Junior Cadet contingency allowances for
perhaps 60 scholars (some officers have over 100 to
look after) and audits the cash statements. If
ammunition for miniature ranges is required at any
of these schools, the area-officer has to attend to the
requisition, issue rifles and cleaning apparatus, and
help with the training of the juniors when asked to
do so. In short, he must be at everyone’s call, but ■
must keep well in the background when he isn’t
wanted. His job is one everlasting round of the
unpleasant side of military duty, made up of prosecu-
tions, voluminous reports, blame-taking and boy-
training, on the pay of a navvy. Unless he is pos-
sessed of private means, and is also an enthusiastic
soldier, an area-officer chucks the job in disgust
long before he has done the three years that precede
the new affluency. The worst feature of the thing
is that many officers who have been rated as first-
class for two years, according to the standard im-
posed by Major-General Kirkpatrick, will still have
to rub along on the old stipend till they have done
the three years, whilst second- and third-class men,
who have been in from the beginning, will get the
increase.
Betsy Prig Has Forebodings.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Take what we said in criticism of the accounts a
year ago. The loan expenditure had in the year
reached the wholly unprecedented figure of £8,587,000,
and we were rather aghast at it. —Sydney Telegraph.
Sairey, for this last year as ever was,
I’ve been a-thinkin’ deep about the Past;
And I ’ave got forebodin’s: Why? Because
I feel inside them good, old times can’t
last:
Well, just a leetle drop—an’ please don’t
pour too fast.
I looks towards you, Sairey ; an’ looks back
Wiv pride on my perfessional career;
There’s no deniging we ’ave ’ad our whack
Of profits, perkisites and tea an’ beer;
But I’m afeared that things is goin’ to
bust, my dear.
Them bragian boys is gettin’ past all bounds!
The way they borrer is a Shame, my pet:
’Ow they do spend it, too —the bold, young
’ounds !
A-runnin’ US and everyone in debt,
For things I can’t forgive, nor you, my
dear, forget.
There’s meejums, too, in all things—even
10an5....
Well, jest a teeny taste....an’ you, an’
Me
Ain’t never yet a-took to throwin’ stones
At anyone what borrered nice an’ free;
But now I’ve got the creeps about what’s
goin’ to be.
Cheer up? In course I will! But we must
send
A nurgent warnin’ to them ’orrid kids!
As long as there’s a party what’ll lend,
They’d pawn their aunt an’ gran’ma with
them Yids !
I’m fair agasht, the way they blew the
luvely quids....
’Ere’s lookin’ at yer, Sairey ! Don’t sup-
poge
Your Betsy is down’earted —Never fear!
We’re doin’ well —but I do not propoge
To let them boys usupp our lorful
sphere. . ..
Good ’ealth !. .. . an’ may our boys be raisin’
loans next year!
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OF THE PEOPLE.
Estab. 1768 [
Estab. 1742
“A WHITE AUSTRALIA
... and ...
“MACKIE’S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.
A GRAND DOUBLE.
*0
3 O ORD „* ON
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
DT
Swift & Company T-itd.. Australasian Agents. 26/30 Clarence St.,
Sydney
A Federal Detective Agency.
j. CANTLON
(late Victorian Detective Police) under-
takes Commercial, Confidential, Next of Kin,
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enquiries,
Searches, Surveillance.
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
mi IE Best Stones written by Australian
_L Writers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price. 6d. monthly.
Missing: Friends.
B" OBBY, or EDWARD, BOHANNA, who
left England eight or 10 years ago,
please communicate with your nephew, John
Bohanna, Military Hospital, Up Park Gamp,
Jamaica.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Gipsy Love.”
Adelpiii “Mr. Wu.”
Little Theatre “Master of Angerstroom.”
Tivoli McinuMi s Vaudeville Co.
National Theatre .... Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer's Pictures.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice-Skating.
Imperial Salon De Luxe Dancing.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “lolantlie.”
King’s Leroy Talma & Bosco.
Royal “Officer 666.”
Princess’s “Aladdin.”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s I’alaci; West’s Pictures.
Majestic Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
Bijou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville.
“Bunty Pulls the Strings” is flourishing at
the Royal (Sydney). Though the main-
spring of the play is misappropriation of
funds and the village policeman is always
handy, there is hardly a shadow in it, and
the audience hurries for its homeward
vehicle with a smile. The playgoer who has
another sombre show in his mind should save
bright little “Bunty” for the second course.
If ye have tears prepare to shed them at
the Sydney Criterion. “Madame X” is the
dampest play of an unusually wet season.
The meteorological officer has to go back to
“The Only Way,” produced many years a.go,
for a comparison of the unsettled and sniffy
conditions that prevailed at the Cri. on
Saturday night. Handkerchiefs may be
ordered at 10.15. Patrons who dislike wet
feet will have either to come in their goloshes
or bring their own bath-mats. The tears
streamed down the face of this critic so
blindingly that he forgot to tip the cloak-
room attendant, and consequently witnessed
the amazing spectacle of a cloak-room
attendant in tears. This critic’s grand-aunt
rushed to the ladies’ room with the desperate
desire to powder her nose, but reported, with
more tears, that 382 women had been before
her and that the powder, had run out. *
The only objection that can be taken to
“Madame X” is that the author, or the
adaptor, or the writer of the American ver-
sion, has chosen such a commonplace plot.
How frequently do we notice in our own
law courts that the woman on trial for
murder finds her husband provided with a
seat on the bench and her long-lost son the
counsel for the defence! This hackneyed
situation in real life the author, or his con-
federates, has merely transferred to the
stage. The only originality shown by the
author was his refusal to make the jury
composed of the woman’s 12 uncles. How-
ever, it provides the pathos necessary.
Jacqueline Floriot has cleared from her hus-
band and her infant child, but on the death
of her lover she returns to Floriot’s house
to see her son, who is dangerously ill.
Floriot hurls her out, and thou eh he repents
he fails to find her again. She has gone
down into the underworld, or the tube rail-
way, or the bottom of a wild-cat mine. But
20 years later she reappears as the mistress
of a genial scoundrel, a mere derelict of a
woman, drug-sodden and degraded. In order
to prevent her lover blackmailing her hus-
band she shoots the cheerful scoundrel dead.
Arrested, she refuses to speak, even to give
her name. The police are unable to find out
anything about her, and a young lawyer,
whose first case this is. is given to her for
counsel. During the trial the woman recog-
nises her husband sitting beside the judve.
and learns that her lawyer is her own son. His
eloquence results in a verdict of not guilty ;
hut the woman is dying. Before her death
she and her son acknowledge each other, and
she perishes happy.
Obviously the plav is designed to give
every opportunity for a display of the
woman’s emotional powers ; indeed, the play
is little but a framework for Jacqueline’s
emotions. And in the hands of Muriel Starr
“Madame X” becomes the most poignant
drama seen in Australia for years. In the
first scene Miss Starr plunges immediately
into a tempestuous argument with her stern
husband, flinging herself on her knees to him
and pleading passionately for forgiveness.
In the next she has become a. decrepit
horror, drinking absinthe with a fiendish
craving and greedily imbibing ether. Already
her awful life has ruined her health. In
the trial scene, dying, desperate, despairing,
she sits crumpled in the box, dominating the
situation, n figure of indelible pathos and
horror. Her scream, on discovering that her
counsel is her son, is enough to induce
hysterics in a member of the Woman’s
National Council. But in the last phase,
where she gloats upon the face of her son,
childish in her infatuation and love, Muriel
Starr touches heights of genius. In appear-
ance, attitude and dress, this actress becomes
the wreck that she is personating.
* * * *
The husband is capably presented by Roy
Redgrave. Eric Maxon, as an exquisite
Frenchman, acts with a new sincerity. E;
IV. Morrison ably fills the part of her
scoundrelly lover, his fall when shot by
Jacqueline being a masterpiece of realism.
A small part, carefully accurate in details,
is that of George Chalmers the younger, as
the hotel porter, his demeanor in the trial
scene being admirable. Frederick Ward’s
delivery of his speech in the defence suc-
ceeds, despite his lack of personality and his
trivial work in the preceding scene. Two
genial blackmailers, Claude Bantock and
George Chalmers the elder, acceptably provide
the only comedy element in the general atmo-
sphere of gloom. Miss Marjorie Soper makes
the most of a small part; and Miss Mary
Worth is content in a colorless ingenue
character. But the company does not
matter: the play is Muriel Starr.
Maud Allan arrived at Sydney Palace on
Saturday night, and found a large audience
that was sympathetic and occasionally en-
thusiastic —particularly so after the child-
ishly joyous Moment Musical which, with
Schubert’s exquisite music, was a plain
proposition and quite irresistible in its
appeal. But some of the other dances drew
merely a nominal amount of noise and left
the spectators pondering. There is nothing
deliberately dazzling about Miss Allan’s art.
It never resembles hard work, or becomes a
thunderous rattle of shoe-heels. It isn’t
Gende, or musical comedy jigging, or vaude-
ville clatter, or tango, or ballroom stuff—
none of the familiar stunts resemble it.
The leaflet which supplies a list of
titled and merely distinguished people who
“have witnessed the dances of Miss Maud
Allan” is, presumably, supplied for the
encouragement of the doubting and untitled
customer. There doesn’t seem to be any
use in it otherwise. Any dancer who lias
been before the London public for years
could hardly avoid being seen by the nobility
—who have more time on their hands than
most. The famous Salome Dance, which has
been Maud’s fortune, is carefully melodra-
matic, and, with its fine setting, gory acces-
sories and music, requires less mental effort
MAUD ALLAN AT SYDNEY PALACE.
A dead head watches the Salome dance.
on the onlooker’s part. The trifling bead
and chiffon costume resists the whirlwind
dancing so well that one suspects it was
rigged by a female sailor with long experi-
ence of typhoons. The Cherniavskys, who
are handicapped slightly by their manner-
isms, are great workers in the good cause
of music and keep up a creditably high aver-
age. Mischel, the ’cellist, seems to have a
smaller supply of inspiration than the others,
but, nevertheless, they are a very interesting
trio. The orchestra of 35 players, under
Frank St. Leger, buttresses an unusual show
that is packed with melody and grace and
deserves well of the public.
The first South African play produced by
Hugh Buckler at the Little Theatre (Syd-
ney) had its premiere in Monday evening.
“The Master of Angerstroom” is not particu-
larly distinguished for anything. Its con-
struction is slipshod, its situations are
mechanical. There is no lightening humor in
this melancholy drama. It is the sort of
play, too, in which “asides” never cease from
troubling and soliloquies run amuck. The
soliloquising habit so gets on the minds cf
the characters that some portions of the play
seem like a succession of one-man turns in
Maud Allan dancing to Mendelssohn?s
Spring Song.
vaudeville. Even when the “asides” are
shouted nobody on the stage notices them.
And the chief situation depends for its proba-
bility on the mere chance that one of the
characters bears the name “Adace.” The
plot tells of John Adace, the master of the
Angerstroom estate near Durban. He is
a London cashier who absconded 20 years
before. The steals ruined his employer,
Ruckmann; but he has apparently enough
left to pay his fares all over the world for
years, in his relentless search for the enemy.
Adace’s son falls in love with Bertha, the
daughter of Ruckmann. Ruckmann recog-
nises his cashier and telegraphs for a detec-
tive. When Adace, thinking himself secure,
asks Ruckmann, on behalf of his son, for
Bertha, Ruckmann denounces him and is
about to proclaim Adace’s identity to the
household when he is strikeil with (stage)
aphasia. Thus he is unable to speak or
write the name of the man the detective has
come up to arrest. The unutterably foolish
’tec cannot discover the man, though, as
Ruckmann can point, all he need do is to
round up the whole household and get the
speechless man to indicate the criminal. But
this would not suit the dramatist. He must
have his situation. So it is that Ruckmann
spells the name “Adace” by striking the
notes corresponding to the letters of that
name on the piano. Had the cashier’s name
been “Jones,” there would have been no
situation. In the end Ruckmann recovers
his speech, and, on evidence of Adace’s re-
pentance, tears up the latter’s confession of
his crime. The climax is unnecessarily de-
layed by the detective refusing to bother him-
self with arresting Adace, and resigning
from the force. There is a lot more plot,
too.
* * * *
Such a play gives small opportunity for
any but the characters of Ruckmann and
Adace. Hugh Buckler is admirable in his
many scenes of woe, terror and remorse ; and
Arthur Cornell’s presentment of the relent-
less German employer is a consistent piece
of work. Alfred Bristowe is a garrulous
doctor, whose mannerisms in the end grow
rather wearisome. Kenneth Brampton in-
fuses some warmth into the rather colorless
part of Adace’s son. The gentle ’tec is
played in a gentlemanly manner by Gerald
K. Souper. Miss Violet Paget, in an
ingenue part, has little to do but look sweet
and innocent in a succession of beautiful
gowns, and Miss Lillian Lloyd has still less.
The staging is delightful. The Little
Theatre hag reduced to a fine art the prob-
lem of getting apparent space on a small
stage. The author is said to be an ex-Aus-
tralian.
W. W. Jacob’s rather childish playlet,
“The Grey Parrot,” preceded this South
African drama. It concerns two stage
sailors and their wives. Kenneth Bramnton
makes an admirable tar of the Jacobs varietv,
but Tom Craven, as his mate, errs toward
caricature in a part that does not need to
be clowned. There is, however, an unctu-
ousness about his work that almost compen-
sates for this defect. The other characters
are well placed.
* * * *
The one-act play, shunned by the Austra-
lian commercial manager, proved its power
to interest at the Stage Society’s production
at the Repertory Theatre, Sydney, on Wednes-
day last week. Three one-act plays were
presented: Barrie’s delightful impossibility,
“Rosalind,” J. Stanley Houghton’s theatric
impossibility, “The Fifth Commandment,”
and Adrian Consett Stephen’s literary impos-
sibility, “Echoes.” “Rosalind” shows a
famous actress “resting” in lodgings, where,
in the company of her landlady, the actress
comfortably relapses into her professionally-
delayed middle-age. The landlady passes
for her mother. A youthful admirer of the
stage Rosalind arrives, and is only witV&£-
ficulty convinced that the placid, middle-aged
woman is the young, sprightly geniusi of.bis
devotion. Then Rosalind is called back to
rehearsals, and quickly appears dressed. “
travel, the eternally-youthful, popular lady
again. It is a whimsical conception, deli-
cately touched with Barrie’s charm, an
humor. Mrs. R. Suttor was admirable in hei
conception of the dual personality ot Rosa-
lind, though her reading of the charactei die
not touch its depths. The youth wasinel-
fectively portrayed by Reginald Neiia.
Houghton’s play shows, rather cheaply, tac
incubus that a mother can become to a de-
voted daughter, and the incapacity, of tne
younger generation of an English family to*.
healthy revolt. Miss Gavin Brown was
well placed as the selfish, mollusc mothei.
Miss Ailsa Craig was too wooden for even
such a mother’s daughter; but the roen
parts, played by Dodd Mehan and 1 lacid
Courtney, were thoroughly satisfactory.
The society is to be congratulated
on having given A. C. Stephen’s Aus-
tralian play its chance of produc-
tion. It is a bookish play, full of literary,
but not dramatic, ideas ; the motive is vaguely
developed and overgrown with excrescences.
If thoroughly gone over with a harrow of
editorial blue-pencils, and fertilised _ with a
little humor, it would make an effective play.
But it is distinctly clever —an asset of
promise rather than of achievement. _ Evi-
dently A. C. Stephen has the stuff in him.
The performance was marred by the loud
barking of Placid Courtney, the growling of
the prompter, and the frequently inaudible
voice of A. C. Stephen.
Of the Sydney Adelphi “attraction,”
“Brought to Ruin” —wherein the principals
are a stuffed doll, a Supreme Court Judge,
who is a bad egg in his spare time, a
wronged female, various sub-villains and vil-
lainesses and an honest sailor —The Bulle-
tin merely remarks that it has sentenced
the authoress to stand on one leg for 37 years
without the option. To-morrow night the
absurd bellowdrama will be dumped out of
sight, and on Saturday operations will be
commenced by “Mr. Wu,” who brings a full
cargo of London press clippings, which lead
this paper to expect a much better thing
than the Adelphi has been offering of late.
The office Wrecker has reported that, up
to Tuesday evening last, nothing was amiss
with the full-rigged barquentine “Gipsy
Love,” now sailing under a full head of
canvas at Her Majesty’s, Sydney,
aid of such skilled navigators as Field
Fisher, Elsie Spain, Phil Smith, Dorothy
Brunton and others.
If the suffragettes’ notion of man is any-
thing like Winifred Ward’s —the lady who
is now appearing at Sydney Tivoli —then
The Bulletin ceases to wonder why they
want the vote. Fortunately this class of
“male impersonator” is pretty rare, and it
could be at least one rarer with advantage.
Wallace Brownlow, the favorite old baritone
of comic opera, demonstrates that he hasn’t
lost all his power to charm. Eugene
Damond, a youthful violinist, is the pick of
the Tivoli’s new bunch. She does especially
well in the “Barcarole,” wherein the orches-
tra also rises to the occasion. Bellora, a
mimic; the Villions, cyclists and dancers;
and Gertrude Gebest are other interesting
additions to an improved bill.
Fresh turns continue to keep the National
Amphitheatre (Sydney) programme from
staleness (the curse of vaudeville). In this
respect the Brennan-Fuller (more particu-
larly Ben Fuller) management has made a
name for itself in a comparatively brief time,
and is giving weekly guarantees that it in-
tends to retain the reputation. The show
this week probably goes one better than any
the roof has yet sheltered.
The Imperial Salon de Luxe (Sydney)
has been booked to-night for the Civil Ambu-
lance ball, and to-morrow night the Sydney
Polo Club will have its exclusive use. On
both afternoons, however, the big tabernacle
of the tango is free to the public (with the
trifling exception of the cost of admittance),
and on Saturday the usual conditions will
prevail and pause not, nor will there be any
variableness or shadow of turning.
Next Monday, at the Repertory Theatre,
the Sydney Repertory Dramatic Society will
begin a six-nights’ production of W. R. Ken-
nedy’s remarkable “Christ” play, “The Ser-
vant in the House.” The drama, though
dealing with the same idea as “The Passing
of the Third Floor Back,” bears no resem-
blance to it in construction.
‘l* *!' *!' ❖
Antony and Cleopatra, who are alleged to
have suicided with such thoroughness that
they have been more or less dead ever since,
were resurrected in Sydney last Saturday
for the very manyth time. This time it was
at Spencer’s Lyceum, per cinematograph,
and they will continue to resurrect there
until further notice. There’s no particular
reason why this young and promising couple
should have suicided. This paper knows
dozens who could suicide with greater ad-
vantage ; and, without desiring to give
offence, it recommends these and others to
see how it is done. Those who are not inter-
ested in the cleanest and most painless
methods of taking their ticket may find en-
joyment in the show, which certainly puts
the art of moving-pictury up another peg.
BUNTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Eternal Bunty, innocently-wise,
You come to cheer our lonely hearts again;
For you have always lived in some disguise,
Wee Bunty, mother-manager of men !
And as you, with your immemorial guile,
Twist round your little fingers clumsy
men,
We wriggle helplessly, then with you smile:
Who wouldn’t be henpecked by such a henV
Without you, Bunty, what would we men be
But sodden, broken wreckage, tempest-
whirled V
Then with your maiden-meek sagacity
You pull the strings—the heart-strings—
of the world.
We see the purpose underneath your mirth,
Yet meekly follow you—no more alone.
Ah, lucky we, the Weelyums of this earth,
Who have a wilful Bunty of our own !
N.s.w.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


DAIMLER
’BUSES and LORRIES
LEAD
for EFFICIENCY, ECONOMY & GENERAL UPKEEP.
Sole Australian Agents —
SUNSHINE Hotor Cars Pty. Ltd.,
c/o COLLINS & SPENCER STREETS, MELBOURNE.
ALSO H. V. McKAY, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane.
insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Pitt & King Streets, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch : 50 Queen Street, Melbourne, s. J. fowler, Manager.
Queensland Branch : 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane. J. A. WATSON, Manager.
FIRE, ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
’Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
Adelaide Royal is doing some quick
changes. Muriel Starr haying departed
the grey-haired Dufault tried the house
for some concerts, and found the new
building fine for singing. He is im-
mensely popular. Pretty (as Pepys said)
to see the churchy city absolutely refusing
to go home to bed until he handed
sheerly Pagan challenge of Henley’s “In-
victus.” But then (as Longfellow ought to
have said), Who has weight so clear and
strong That he cares a d —n for the words
of a song? And now the Royal is pluckily
trying to reproduce the great Drury Lane
effects of “Sealed Orders.” Ada Reeve has
just started a boom at the Tivoli ; she is
not as young as in the “French Maid” days,
but she is a far finer artist. Farr and Falk-
land are at this house too, and the amiable
person who calls himself Dusty Rhodes. At
the King’s, Sterling and Love, _ Mann and
Franks, and some clever first-in-Australia
turns. (Judgment reserved.) The finest pic-
ture in sight is the “Three Musketeers” at
West’s —Dumas carefully revised for the
popular eye.
From an Adelaide critic: —
The South Australian Society of Arts’ gallery has
been mostly occupied of late by one-brush shows.
After Mrs. Gwen Barringer (Adelaide) came charm-
ing miniatures and unpretentious landscapes by Miss
Bernice Edweil (N.S.W.) ; and now it is the turn of
Miss Thea Proctor (Sydney, with a cosmopolitan
training). She hangs the same clever, unusual works
lately shown in Sydney, with some others. The
abnormal muscles of the Genee-like dancer are treated
with merciless photographic fidelity in a variety of
poses, and the rest is mostly study of costumes old
enough or new enough to be remarkable. Her deco-
rative fans are charming, and, if she is occasionally
reminiscent, it is always of good guides. “Conder,
with better drawing,” London Times said handsomely
of some of these things when shown there. It is a
delightful change for Adelaide to see a room-full of
figure sketches, and an artist who puts landscape in
its place as a background.
Some years ago, when Leroy, Talma and
Bosco (Talma being the suffragette of the
party) introduced their legerdemain, illu-
sions and livestock under the auspices of
Rickards, the bustle and gaiety of their long
turn were as remarkable as their wizardry
effects. Now that they are back in Australia,
with other performers to help them make
the time pass, their business capacity is a
little more striking than before. The enter-
tainment staged at Melbourne King’s on
Saturday is clean, bright and lively. If
the tricks of the conjuring trio are old in
some cases, and not always astounding, the
way of putting them through is invariably
quick. Things are neatly done and oppor-
tunely timed. The matter-of-fact style of
Leroy, the boss deceiver, is well contrasted
with the humorous fooling of Bosco (whose
specialty is fresh rabbits) and the vivacity
of Miss Talma. When an apparently empty
meat safe is suddenly occupied by Leroy,
who turns out to be Talma a minute later,
the conspirators appear to take as much plea-
sure in their work as Bosco when he breaks
eggs on his forehead with a view to hatching
three fat geese in an omelette. A very
happy trinity of conjurers are L., T. and B.
At one stage of the proceedings they appear
simultaneously in different parts of the house
and palm off coins, animals and bundles of
underlinen upon members of the audience.
One feels that the production of a baby ele-
phant from an elderly gent.’s breast-pocket
is within the range of Leroy’s possibilities.
As for the final illusion, in which a live lion
is an unconcerned factor, the wonder is not
that the king of beasts disappears when
Talma enters the cage, but that he doesn’t
actually swallow the Christian martyr and
then cough her into a padlocked cabinet,
whilst Bosco cries “Hey, presto!”
* * * *
The turns, apart from the conjurers, who
carry much scenery and several assistants,
are a juggler, a pair of eccentric dancers,
and one Santo Santucci, described as the
wizard of the accordeon. The tall juggler
opens the programme with a number of
Cinquevallian feats of skill and strength, and
incidentally he makes eight lightning changes
of satin jacket, and sheds seven pairs of
knee breeches behind the scenes. Of the two
dancers —Waner and White—one is moder-
ately eccentric, and the other is extrava-
gantly slim and flexible, but as regards the
accordeon wizard the present writer can
merely testify that he didn’t appear on
Saturday. Leroy stated that the accordeon
had suffered an injury to its works and
couldn’t possibly be repaired before closing
time on Saturday. For which unfortunate
incident the audience had only the con-
jurer’s word. Possibly he had changed the
musical wizard into a canary for travelling
purposes, and was unable to remember the
password.
❖ * * *
The time was so exceedingly ripe for a
Gilbert and Sullivan revival that “The Gon-
doliers” might very well have been granted
a longer spin at Her Majesty’s (Melbourne).
This is the second and last week of the
trouble that arose through the marrying of
Plaza Toro’s infant daughter to the King
of Barataria’s new-born heir. Certain
members of the new co., notably tenor
McKeown, are improving on acquaintance,
whilst others remain under surveillance
owing to their defective singing. Concern-
ing Chas. Walenor, as the Duke, there is a
grave doubt as to whether he is sumciently
conscious of his noble Spanish birth, but in
consideration of the fact that Walenor is a
quaint little person who might have walked
out of an old family picture frame, and is
more decidedly tuneful than the average
comic-opera duke, The Bulletin accepts
him without demur. Saturday’s bill is
“lolanthe,” for one week only.
*
At Melbourne Royal a thin fabric of
farcical comedy is tinted by the glare of
red-hot bellodrama as before, and act 11. of
“Officer 666” continues to conclude with the
tableau of Sydney Stirling, in the character
of Jaek-in-the-Box, pointing a gruesome fire-
iron at Niblo’s silent head. This is about
the only moment in the farcidrama when
Niblo’s head preserves silence. As a rule he
is either delivering repartee at random, or
talking about the girl he promptly decided
to marry because she walked into his bachelor
abode and sat silently ruminating, in a won-
derful hat, over her absurd resolve to elope
with another fellow. Thereupon Niblo re-
solves to marry that girl. It’s a way he’s
got in comedy—to resolve to marry the first
girl who blows across his path of volubility.
In “Wallingford” he referred to her as “some
girl,” but in subsequent comedies it has been
that girl who sealed his fate. Niblo will
borrow the uniform of “Officer 666” every
evening until further notice.
“Aladdin” will be cheerfully foolish for
one more week at Melbourne Princess’s. Con-
sidered as a song and dance entertainment
animated by a sincere desire to earn its liv-
ing, “Aladdin” has claims to sympathy. The
little widow (Stanley) is frequently droll.
Also the suffragette who stands 7ft. high in
her boots, and comes and goes without any
attempt at explanation, has an air of being
funny on a system of her own. Moreover,
the Emperor of China gives vent to a fine
wobbly voice, and his daughter can concede
points to the usual panto, princess. Grace
Palotta, Percy Clifton and Carrie Moore
are much in evidence. “Aladdin” will keep
the house warm until Allen Doone restores
Irish drama to its loving friends on the 18th.
A sundry show that was a frost in Sydney
last week.
A return of pianist Harold Bauer to
Melbourne Auditorium is promised for
Thursday (16th) and afterwards: Three
evening and two matin6e recitals will be the
last of Bauer as far as Melbourne is con-
cerned.
The moderately welcome strangers at Mel-
bourne Tivoli this week are Ralph Erroll,
from America, who sings tenor, and the
Kracht Bros., members of the gymnastic and
acrobatic clan. For the rest it may be
remarked that Gilday and Fox are about to
take their one “turn” to another sphere of
usefulness, and Beth Tate is still figuring as
a star of magnitude. Her songs are not
impressive, nor would her voice reach the
far end of an election meeting, but Miss
Tate’s clothes and deportment meet all the
requirements of her position on the bill.
“The Pool Room,” a Yankee narrative
mostly concerned with a cocaine fiend, is
revealing the qualities of Fred Hagan and
co. to Melbourne Bijou supporters. Two
new arrivals, Livermore and his Doll, pro-
vide a novel turn. Fernandez and May are
very passable trick musicians; but the
Sherratt and Lang act is severely damaged
by the piffling business of the masculine
eiement. Josephine Gassman is now warb-
ling “You Made Me Love You” with pas-
sionate niggah intensity, and only needs a
slice of watermelon and a stolen chicken to
make her bliss complete.
“The Ruby of Destiny,” the strange his-
tory of a tremendous gem, is exciting the
interest of the jewellery trade at West’s
Palace, Melbourne. The drama is rather
long, and its action is impeded by the in-
furiated efforts of a royal lady to canoodle
with the boy of her desire. “The Fugitive”
is comparatively indifferent fiction, but “The
Water Dog,” a comic, contains a diverting
idea. Next Saturday West publishes the
Cines Co.’s version of “Antony and Cleo-
patra,” with a large Dago lady appearing as
the daughter of Ptolemy, the Flute-Player.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Ike Pagliacci”: Camped four miles from Peak
Hill (N.S.W.) is Eroni Bros.’ circus, busy painting
carriages and feeding up the menagerie. With some
60 circus souls, they have planted an antbed of in-
dustry in the middle of the bush. The Eronis are
not Dago, but were born Perry, and in Australia.
Old Bill Perry still bosses the show, though once he
left it to be a bush publican. No agent ever suc-
ceeded in making the Eroni outfit show six days a
week in the country. Years ago they played in
Melbourne to big business, and then left a lot of
money behind by closing the season suddenly. “Too
much noise here,” said “Old Bill.” Like the St.
Leons, also travelling N.S.W., the Eronis prefer to
show where a high collar doesn’t matter. Old man
St. Leon, by the way, always shaved himself without
a mirror, but swore he would cut his throat if he
didn’t gaze steadfastly at the trunk of a tree through-
out the operation.
“H. 0.”: The revival of “The Gondoliers” suggests
that Gilbert wears better than Sullivan. Nobody has
quite come up to the latter for simple tunefulness,
but his orchestration is, at times, thin compared with
the heavily-scored work of such moderns as Lehar
and Strauss. The Savoy series contains little that is
equal in musical quality to the first act of “The
Chocolate Soldier.” Gilbert, on the other hand, seems
surprisingly up to date. In fact, many of his ex-
travagant ideas have been, or probably will be, real-
ised, as have been those of Jules Verne. A while
back, f’rinstance, the belted Earl of Warwick accepted
a tip from the Doolc of Plaza-Toro, Ltd., by floating
his ancestral hall into a public co. for show purposes.
“Harrison O.”: Gregan McMahon, of Melbourne’s
Repertory Theatre, reckons he has found the real
dramatic goods in “Whither,” a play by a Melbourne
girl, May Wilkinson, and as a guarantee of good
faith he is putting the thing on for three nights
at St. Peter’s Hall this month. Miss Wilkinson
fingers a typewriter in Dalgety’s office, and a dis-
cussion by female clerks and typists on the question
of equal pay for equal work is a feature of her
play. The lady is known as a writer of short stories
and of a prize “pome” perpetrated in connection
with the Women’s Work Exhibition a few years back.
“Harrison O.”: “An Enemy of the People,” put
on in Melbourne by the Repertory Theatre, is not a
good advt. for Ibsen’s craftsmanship. He makes the
mistake of beginning his story at the beginning,
instead of in the middle, as in “Rosmersholm,” or
just before the end, as in “John Gabriel Borkman” ;
and so we get a superfluous opening act and a last
act that is pure anti-climax. And even Pinero could
not want more doors than there are in the various
interiors. In the first, second and fifth acts the
setting is two rooms with four doors, and in the
third act one room with three doors. Ibsen generally
managed to avoid making his interiors look like gaol
corridors, but he wrote “An Enemy of the People”
in a hurry, as a sort of reply to the “compact
majority” ' that damned “Ghosts,” and careless
technique, which is very obvious when the play is
staged, was one result.
“Green ’Un”: One of Vic’s small towns had a
queer entertainment on its hands lately. With press
notices for a week in advance the “Buried Alive”
man announced that as a preliminary to his per-
formance he would drive a pair of horses blindfold
through the streets, and the drive 1 nearly provided
material for several burials, as the vehicle only
traversed about four hundred yards before it col-
lided with a cartload of bluestone spalls. The
impact was disastrous to the showman’s vehicle, and
the “committee” was scattered over the roadway.
An hour later Act 11. began. A nice grave having
been dug, and a tent erected over it, a coC'.n was
produced by the local undertaker. The earth was
filled in, and sixpence a look at the sleeping beauty
(per means of a tin tube over the face of the
“cox-pse”) was to be the rule for 56 hours, after
which the “great awakening” was billed for 10 a.m.
on Friday night in the public hall. At midnight,
however, the “watch” ran up the street calling for
help. The only help available at that hour were
the comps, of the local rag, but they proved them-
selves record body snatchers. Thereafter the corpse
“eorpsed” above ground (at intervals) till the time
appointed for the resurrection. The cause of the
premature disinterment was a faulty ventilation
scheme. It nearly killed the deceased.
If the Actors’ Association can manage it (and
nobody should be able to manage it better) memorials
of J. C. Williamson are to be raised in Sydney and
Melbourne. Monday was the anniversary of his
death; and the Actors’ Council then decided to get
to work, “in view of the length of Mr. Williamson’s
career as a manager in Australia, the enterprise he
displayed, his probity, and his many well-known
benefactions to the profession.” This paper’s bless-
ing goes with the movement.
Miss Ethel Warwick, at present with “Sealed
Orders” at Adelaide, has before the London Divorce
Court a suit against her husband, Edmund Waller,
for restitution of conjugal rights. The lady has been
told that she can have the order on condition that
she files an affidavit on her return to England. Miss
Warwick is 32 years young, and made her first
appearance on the stage in 1900 in “The Corsican
Brothers,” at the Grand Theatre, Fulham. Edmund
Waller, son of Lewis, is two years younger than
his wife. He appeared first at Birmingham, in 1904,
in “Zaza.” The lady was an art student at the
Polytechnic, and the husband an engineer, before
adopting the stage.
Samuel Way, for 38 years past Chief
Justice of S. Australia, is in sad trouble.
At 78, with the grief for the death of his
wife still fresh, the poor, lonely old judge
was faced with the sudden demand to have
an arm amputated at the shoulder. On local
medical advice he trained to Sydney. with
his sister and his associate and put himself
in surgeon McCormick’s hands* and the
operation was carried through at “The
Terraces” on Monday morning.
“The Old Soldier”
The latest variety of woman candidate is Mrs,
Emily Paul, wife of the late Commander of the
N.S.W. Cadets, Colonel Paul. She claims to be the
selected Socialist candidate for Cook, in opposition to
Catts and the Rev. Yarrington. She evidently does
not know much about Socialism, for this is her
creed: “I believe in Socialism, because some of the
conditions of our present civilisation need reform.
The Labor party are not Socialists, for they believe
in conscription, a White Australia, and warfare.”
That is certainly original. What she calls conscrip-
tion is essentially a Socialist device, because it makes
every individual in the community equal. The White
Australia idea is equally Socialistic, because it com-
pulsorily keeps the race pure. To complain that the
Labor people “believe in warfare” is as absurd as to
accuse them of believing in sickness or death. War
is one of the common evils to which the world is sub-
ject, and from which every community must guard
itself. We all have to believe in warfare whether we
like it or no, just as we believe in corns and, in-
cidentally, in women.
Another gap knocked in the administra-
tive staff of the Maoriland Shipping Co.
by that old energetic, Death ! A couple of
weeks ago J. H. N. A. Burnes, manager
at Wellington (M.L.), dropped out. This
week comes news of the demise, at Christ-
church, of Isaac Gibbs, general manager in
M.L. for the big co. Gibbs was born in
England, and migrated to Sydney in his 21st
year. Four years later he was in Canter-
bury (M.L.), where he found a resting place
upon a clerk’s stool in the show which he
has left short of a good man. He was G 3
when he came to anchor, and if none but
his enemies attended the funeral he must
have dug his own grave and got into it with-
out assistance, after carrying his remains to
the place of sepulture.
F. B. Cowling, the Congregational parson
whose name came up in the Sydney Courts
last week in regard to a case affecting the
celebration of marriages, created something
of a sensation over a decade ago by a plea
for “practical religion.” He was then pastor
of the Ocean-street Congregational Church,
and he fell foul of the elders, as might have
been expected. He had enthusiastic fol-
lowers, however, who gave him a church of
his own, and for a while his sermons filled
it. Apparently the support of the godly
didn’t last, for Cowling says he celebrated
199 marriages last year and 53 in one quar-
ter, which seems like making it a business.
In January he left the Church for
commercial pursuits, after his license to
celebrate the blessed sacrament of matri-
mony had fallen overboard. Cowling was
for some time a prominent supporter of the
Labor party; but at last election he ex-
pelled himself by running as a can-
didate after another man had been chosen
by the local league. This was at Woollahra
(Sydney), and he reaped, or gleaned, 475
votes. So he didn’t pan out anything like so
well as Quodling at Monaro. Quodling got
2880 votes. Also Hocking, at Burwood,
acquired 2728, which was almost as good as
the record of Quodling, and far, far ahead of
Cowling.
- ♦ ;
A certain small row or fuss over the Com-
monwealth Bank has done something to raise
the reputation of Manager Denison Miller.
Somebody clamored to his feet in Parlia-
ment, and wanted to know if it was true
that the Commonwealth Bank was financing
some matter or other for the Broken Hill
Proprietary Co. Instead of having the mace
and the ink-bottle and all the available
Hansard thrown at him, and his hat jumped
upon, and being disqualified from the supply
of soup in the refreshment room for three
months, the inquirer was taken seriously.
The manager was informed (though not in
these words) that a buzzing Parliamentary
ass desired to know what was going on. He
replied (though not in these words) that
the Parliamentary ass could just buzz. Then
Joseph Cook made remarks about the man-
ager being an autocrat or a Czar, or words
to that effect. Now it turns out—the trans-
action being completed—that the Common-
wealth Bank is one of the underwriters in a
big B. IT. Prop, scheme, and is likely to
make a very handsome profit out of its share
of the business. But if it was the one finan-
cial institution in Australasia which had to
reveal the details of its customers’ unfinished
business to Parliament —to explain prema-
turely what they were doing or intended to
do —it is certain that profitable business of
the sort would presently pass it by on the
other side. The bank is the property of the
nation, and a member of Parliament has no
bigger share in it, and owns no more of its
capital, and has no more right to rush into
the private concerns of its customers, than
has a tram-conductor, or an ox-conductor,
or a ship’s-steward. or the first mate of a
garbage punt. So long as its accounts can
stand the regular half-yearly audit that is:
enough. The only way to give the show a
fair chance is to suppress once and for all 1
the busybodies who would fain arise in Par-
liament to ask whether Smith has been
granted an overdraft, or if it is true, that
the institution discounted Brown’s bill at
three months for £725 6s. Id.
THE CHUCKER OUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You know the play in which “My Lord,”
Confronted by the wretch abhorred
Who steals the papers, and beguiles
The keeper’s daughter with his wiles,
Remarks: “Begone, before I shout
For menials to throw you out!”
His lordship calls. A servant man,
With knocking knees, comes on the scene.
He’s five-feet-ten, and weighs six stone —-
A shabby thing of skin and bone.
Then, says the “heavy” to the lout:
“James, kindly throw this fellow out!”
The villain is a bulky bloke,
Whose “chiv” is hard as British oak;
lie's equal to all sorts of crime—
Has killed a dozen in his time.
But mark the super, in the bout:
He leans on him and puts him out.
Will managements for ever more
To throw the villain from the door
Employ the same expiring gent—
Consumptive, weary starved and bent,
Who makes it plain to all about
He couldn’t put a candle out?
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


The
“STETSON.* 1
i i
I" SALE.
During our WINTER SALE
(proceeding until July 18), we are offering
unique opportunities in Hat Bargains. All
grades have suffered drastic price reductions.
We have decided to include in these the
immaculate “Stetson,” the name that stands
for the highest perfection in high-class head-
wear. The following is a single instance: —
“STETSON” Soft Felt Hat —
In Steel, Beaver, Brown or
Reseda Sale Price, 22/6
Usual Price, 25/-
Carriage Paid throughout Australasia.
Send for Sale Catalogue.
DAVID JONES Ltd.
Opp. C.P.O. (Tel. 6336 City),
SYDNEY.
111 11
Legal Notices.
To CHARLES JAMES HOLMES, formerly
of Waiuku, Auckland, New Zealand, but
last heard of in Sydney, and to all persons
claiming by, through or under him.
PURSUANT to the directions of His
Honor Sir Robert Stout, K.C.M.G.,
Chief Justice of New Zealand, under Sec-
tion 25 of the Public Trust Office Amend-
ment Act, 1913, you are hereby called upon
to send into the undersigned, on or before
the Ist day of October, 1914, your claim to
part of the estate of WALTER JOHN
HOLMES, late of Waiuku, Auckland,
Parmer, deceased, who died on the 9th day
of November, 1905, intestate, failing which
such estate will be distributed among the
persons entitled thereto disregarding youi
claims.
Dated at Wellington this 30th day of
March, 1914.
J. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
FALLING HAIR CAUSED BY
DANDRUFF.
HOW TO DESTROY THE DANDRUFF
GERM AND SAVE YOUR HAIR.
Thin, brittle, colorless and scraggy hair is
mute evidence of a neglected scalp; of dan-
druff, that awful scourge. There is nothing
so destructive to the hair as dandruff. It
robs the hair of its lustre, its strength and
its very life, eventually producing a fever-
ishness and itching of the scalp, which if not
remedied, causes- the hair roots to shrink,
loosen and die —then the hair falls out fast.
For the purpose of destroying the dandruff
germ you should get your chemist to pre-
pare a lotion consisting of 3 ounces Bay
Rum, 1 ounce Lavona de Composee and i
dram Menthol Crystals. Rub this thoroughly
into the scalp with the finger tips. It will
kill the dandruff germ at once and after
the first application your hair will take on
that life, lustre and luxuriance which is so
beautiful. It will become wavy and fluffy,
and have the appearance of aboundance and
incomparable gloss and softness, but what
will please you most will be after just a
few weeks’ use, when you will actually see a
lot of fine downy hair —new hair —growing
all over the scalp.*
SOCIETY
The other day a man who is “wanted” in
Newcastle (N.S.W.) stepped into Mel-
bourne’s central police office, told the un-
edifying story of his life, and asked to be
returned to the city of the dreadful harbor.
The officer in charge demurred. His visitor
argued the case for his immediate apprehen-
sion with ability and force. Still the Hop
remained adamant. The other then pointed
out that a Victorian constable was presently
journeying to Newcastle with a prisoner.
Could he (the visitor) accompany him? The
Law’s minion, growing weary or bored or
something, ordered the would-be confinee to
leave the office, or suffer the consequences.
However, the persistent one stayed on and
finally prevailed upon the harassed sleuth
to pore over the list of persons for whom
warrants were out. Then the Law found its
wits and gathered him in. In view .of the
smart work on the above lines that is con-
stantly being done by the Vic. force it is a
mystery that the Bauer and other assassins
should still remain at large.
* * * *
An unusual sort of conflict has been taking
place in Pirie, S. Australia’s biggest out-
port and chief ore-smelting centre, where
recently the Mayor set his face against the
holding of open-air meetings by Socialists.
After the first batch of red-raggers had gone
OVERDONE.
“ Heavens! What have you done to him?”
“ Ye tould me to wash him , an’ I starrch him whoile I was about it.”
to gaol, lie started on other speakers who
had taken up the running. Up to this point
he was feeling Napoleonic; but here his
Moscow started. The I.W.W. organisation
all over Australia took the matter up, and
reinforcements were hurried in, even from as
far away as Sydney. The I.W.W. said, in
effect, that its speakers didn’t care a hang
about gaol, and if imprisoning speakers was
the Mayor’s fancy he could be supplied with
so many prisoners that the gaol walls would
bulge. When he saw the I.W.W. members
actually pouring in he struck his flag, or
skied his towel, or whatever it is that a
Napoleon does when he finds a ton of saw-
dust on his plate. And now the I.W.W.
howls on his doorstep for the release of the
imprisoned members, who are being punished
for what others can do without incurring
anything more unpleasant than the curse of
an embittered Bumble.
* * * *
“Henry Horsecollar” : Tasmania is sitting
so hard on the head of the goose which lays
the golden egg that the animal will soon be
suffocated. It proposes to raise another
£12,000 a year by a further tax on Tatter-
sail’s sweep tickets. Now Tattersall him-
self gets 10 per cent, out of the sweep money.
The agent who dodges the Federal law in
order to get the ticket requires to be paid.
There are postages for “reply,” which con-
cerns the ticket, and “result,” which con-
cerns the silly and useless old horse. If a
speculator draws a horse he is liable to be
bailed up by the owner for a quarter or a
third or a half of the possible profits, else
the beast in the glue-pot won’t start. If he
makes a win there is a trifle of bank ex-
change for the collection of the money. Then
the Tasmanian Government taxes every
ticket. Now it proposes to heap a second
tax on every ticket, and there will soon be
so little left for the gambler that it will
hardly be worth while to gamble. Wby
doesn’t Tasmania throw the last fragment of
its alleged conscience overboard and start
a plain State lottery of, say, £lOO,OO0 —a
new lottery to start as soon as the old one
is filled up? It could altogether cut out the
horse element and consequently the horse-
owner’s “cut.” (The horse race has really
no more to do with the case than a race of
two blowflies on a window pane.) It could
pay all prizes in full, less, of course, its 10
per cent, commission. This would probably
bring it in £lO,OOO a month, which is more
than it gets now ; and yet it could give the
speculator a much better and more honest run
for his money than he gets under present
conditions. The Tasmanian Government
would be not a whit less respectable if it
ran a flutter of its own than it is when it
collects a sidelong percentage on a Private
Enterprise flutter. You can’t disguise a
whited sepulchre by giving a speculator 10
per cent, to hold a blue cotton brolly over it.
There is more satisfaction and more profit
in dispensing with the speculator, and saving
the price of bis hypocritical brolly, and ad-
mitting franklv that it is your own whited
seoulchre. Why shouldn’t anybody have a
whited sepulchre if he wants one?
A MEMORY OF THE PAST.
R AFFERTY : "Ah' phwat's the wanin' of this 'kismet' at all?"
JOHNSON: "The weanin’ of the wont is 'Fale.'"
R AFFERTY: “Sure, it'll be another of thim Tri by plays, thin."
A corner of Pitt-street and Martin-place,
opposite the Sydney G.P.0., has changed
hands for £122,000. The Mutual life Co.
of New York was the vendor, and the Mer-
cantile Mutual Insurance Co., of Sydney, the
buyer. In the boomtime of 1802 the then-
new Martin-place frontages were offered for
sale at auction under instructions from the
Minister for Public Works (W. J. Lyne).
The first lot offered was the corner of George-
street, where the Bank of Australasia now
stands. It went up to £l7OO per foot, ihe
reserve price was concealed in an envelope,
and when an officer of the Department opened
the envelope it was found that the price fixed
was £1749. The next lot offered was that
on the corner of Pitt-street. This was knocked
down at £1500; the next going west brought
£l2OO, and the next £lOOO. All three were
purchased for the Mutual Life of New York,
Major Rennie being then manager. Tne
lots totalled £126,000, or £4OOO more than
the land and buildings have now been sold
for. It was a glorious drunk or victory or
something. * * *
“Ringsider”: The Rev. Worrall, who,
according to the Melbourne papers, was
shocked to see John Murray at a recent
Yarraside boxing match —John being,
allegedly, a respectable citizen as well as a
passionate Liberal —would be driven stalk,
staring dippy if he put in an evening at the
Sydney Stadium. I observed there, during
tlie recent Smith-Clabby battle, C. G. Wade
and half a dozen other prominent Liberal
legislators; Fred Flowers, most righteous of
Laborites; ex-Speaker Morton, repiesenting
the Independents; Captain Verney, ex-
A.D.C., to give a vice-regal touch to the
proceedings, and about half the town-dwell-
ing members of the Union and Austialian
Clubs If the churches could only attract
the crowds that the Sydney Stadium does
every Saturday night they would not only
begin to pay a dividend; they would become
fashionable.
“Golospus Gadfly”: Now that Hempire
Day is safely astern one may chance drawing
the' attention of ’Enley, M.E.A., and the
mayor of Cabbage Tree Flat to the remark
made about the business by Derwent Wood,
the sculptor. In London shortly after V ic-
toria’s death, when Meath’s mania first cut
loose, during a frantic argument in a club,
for and against the proposal, an excessively
patriotic Englishman asked Wood it he
didn’t think something should be done every
May 24. Wood said that he felt something
should be done. ‘‘As a man connected with
art, what would you suggest?’ inquired the
patriot. Said Wood in his quiet way. I
would be in favor every May the twenty-
fourth of smashing up at least one of the
cheap German statues of the late I rince
Consort erected in various parts of London
by Queen Victoria.”
Ecclesiastical information from “Jeames”:
The Brompton Oratory, where the Suffragettes got
such a hot time lately, is, after the Cathedral off
Victoria-street, Westminster, the newest great Roman
Catholic church in London. It is the resort ot
Kensington Romanism, just as the Farm-street
Church, which Father Vaughan has made world-
famous, is the haunt of the Catholicism of Mayfair.
The case of the Oratory is a standing example to St.
Mary’s, Sydney. No church authorities like to have
a mortgage on their edifice if they can help it. In
this spirit the Oratorians let their church stand un-
finished —an eyesore to the frequenters of one of
London’s great causeways—for years. Then the London
County Council stepped forward and said brusquely
that the nuisance had got to end, and that soon. The
Church rallied its affluent supporters. In an in-
credibly short time the necessary funds were raked
in, and the vast dome and front were finished. So
would it be with the missing section of St. Mary’s if
the public only spoke its mind vigorously on the
matter.
It was significant, by the way, that the Oratory
congregation should have been so enraged over the
Suffragette invasion. The British R.C., unlike his
co-religionist on the European Continent, is highly
reverential. In such great churches as Notre Dame
or the cathedral at Milan one feels almost as though
one were in an arcade. Sightseers walk aimlessly
about; palpable heretics sit and laugh and talk in
jirominent places; and the worshippers accept it as
a matter of course. British Catholics have never
allowed this in their show-churches ; so decisive are
they on the point, indeed, that those Protestants who
go to High Mass or Benediction to hear the famous
Oratory and Farm-street choirs mostly do their best
to imitate the genuflections and so on of the genuine
devotees. Complete casualness reigns, on the other
hand, in the great Anglican fanes —the Abbey, St.
Paul’s, Canterbury Cathedral, etc. Why it should be
so I don’t know. Perhaps the explanation is that
an Established Church feels like a person of estab-
lished position, and is not touchy about trifles.
GLOVELY WOMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hundreds of women were present at the Johnson-
Moran contest in Paris... .Many of the onlookers
express the opinion that the contest was an exhibi-
tion affair, and that neither boxer wished to do
serious harm. —News item.
Bathurst, Monday.—ltev. S. D. Yarrington, of
Sydney, preached last night on Mission Life in Syd-
ney. His remarks had a marked effect upon the
large congregation. During the sermon three ladies
fainted, and had to be removed from the church.
—Another news item.
When glovely woman in her folly
Goes forth to seek the thrilling fray,
She’s mostly on a prize-ring jolly,
And finds, too late, that pugs betray.
Their scrap is much below the level,
And in the fake lies all their skill ;
But where the parson fights the Devil-
Girls, that is where you get the thrill.
N.S.W.
BILLY B.
EPITAPH FOR A BRITISH FEMALE PICTURE-
BUSTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The fair and beautiful Lady Babette
Who used to be, ’neatli her coronet,
A beautiful instance of rank and fashion,
Is now a terrible Suffragette,
And cares for nothing but Panic and slashin’.
N.S.W.
KODAK.


A PLEASANT TONIC FOR ANYBODY WHO IS
“RUN DOWN.”
There are many people having no serious
ailment who yet feel “run down ’’ or out of
condition. Appetite is-capricious, digestion
imperfect, and there is a general feeling of
depression and lack of vitality. In most of
these cases, the trouble is due to some de-
rangement of the digestive functions, and once
this is corrected, there is an immediate return
to normal health and vigour. It may be con-
fidently stated that for this “run down”
condition and for correcting digestive irregu-
larities, there is nothing better than a course
of Angier’s Emulsion. This remedy not only
promotes appetite and soothes and strengthens
the organs of digestion, but it exerts a most
invigorating tonic influence upon the general
health. Angier’s Emulsion is pleasant to take,
and agrees perfectly with delicate stomachs. It
is recommended for lung troubles, digestive and
bowel disorders, and for “ all run down ”
conditions and wasting diseases. It is par-
ticularly successful in those “run down’’
conditions associated with nervous symptoms,
and also in those numerous cases, that are
due to an unhealthy condition of the digestive
organs, with faulty assimilation. It must not
be forgotten that Angier’s Emulsion exerts its
full soothing, healing, disinfectant action
throughout the entire digestive area, therefore
it is of value even to the average healthy
person, because it keeps the digestive organs
in a normal healthy condition to perform their
functions naturally thus making the use of
pills unnecessary. For twenty-one years it has
been prescribed by the medical profession, and
is a recognised standard remedy of proved
value that may be taken with absolute confi-
dence. Of all chemists at 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
OLO BREECHES
c J*£)h
Polo players who are now in Sydney are reminded that we
carry a complete stock of Riding Goods. The breeches
quoted are made for us in India, where polo-playing is one
of the principal pastimes. The materials are durable and
the garments are correctly shaped. They are strongly
sewn, and the knees are strapped to minimise wear.
WHITE DRILL, with belt loops, laced knees,
16/6.
WHITE COTTON CORD, belt loops, laced
knees, 22/6.
WHITE CANTON MOLE, belt loops, laced
knees, 25/-
Please state waist and inside leg measurements when
« dering.
Patterns and Catalogue on request.
PEAPES (& CO., LTD.
Men's
Outfitters
309 (Sb 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
An indignant citizen of Paris attempted
to murder a member of the Rothschild clan
the other week, and thereby hangs a moral.
The Dr. Henri de Rothschild in question
established a “milk depot for mothers” in
a street where the indignant citizen had pre-
viously been a prosperous dairyman. Hence
the latter’s objection—he didn’t want the
milk of human kindness offered gratis to his
customers, or sold at cost price. Moral:
When Philanthropy intrudes upon the
domain of Private Enterprise, it is in the
same position as its cousin Socialism. They
are equally wicked and liable to be shot at.
“Pasquin”: Anent Senator McDougal’s
wild skirl in defence of the kilt. In (say)
Prince Charlie’s time, when the Scotch
Scotchman’s “ain fireside” was more of a
death-trap than a joy, his forced retirement
to the snow-covered crags of Ben Something
rendered his hide impervious to' climatic
change. But what of the Australian Scotch-
man, clad for at least 10 months of the year
in trousers and underpants? How far would
he, in his “little short shirt,” chase the alien
in the teeth of a “southerly buster,” with a
temperature in the vicinity of zero and a
velocity of 80 miles per hour? I’m afraid
he would soon buckle at the knees. When
Kitchener was here I was at Queenscliff
camp, and had an opportunity of noting the
effeteness of the kilt as fighting clobber.
What scraped knees, “barked” shins and
SAFE.
“ No w, you know well enough that if a girl
proposed to you you wouldn't have the
courage to refuse her.”
“ N-no, maybe not. But if a girl proposed to
me I wouldn't have the courage to marry
her.”
other signs of wear and tear presented them-
selves when Scottie came inarching home
again ! One night, disturbed at “Lights Out”
by an outburst of lurid language, I rushed
from my tent, thinking that'our commanding
officer had tripped over a rope. On investiga-
tion it turned out to be a member of the
Scotch RMment who had unwittingly knelt
down on a prickly herb to say his prayers.
GREAT EXPECTATIONS .
MILLIONAIRE: “A fit husband for my daughter? Why, in the first place, she is half a
head taller than you.”
SUITOR: “Well, sir, I don't expect to be so short after I am married."
“B.”: The probability that,
after the temporary stage has
been got over, the Governor-
General will make Concord the
official N.S.W. home fulfils
pretty accurately the vision of
the frequently maligned old
Lieutenant-Governor Grose.
Parramatta looked rather far
away in those days for a seat
of authority, so Grose proposed
to establish a line of military
residences along the route. He
therefore allotted each officer
willing to do a bit of farming
100 acres within sight of the
river, along with 10 convicts,
victualled and clothed by the
Government, and the liberal
use of such other gangs as
the Government could spare.
That was the origin of Concord
—so called because the military
and civil ideas were blent in the
scheme; a sort of sword and
ploughshare arrangement. A
neighboring settlement more
martial than civilian received
the name of the Field of
Mars, and still another,
originally intended for
Quakers, but later trans-
ferred to free
settlers in gen-
eral, was named
Liberty Plains.
In course of
time many of
the small Concord farms
amalgamated; Yaralla embraced three of
them.
* * * *
John Bridge and Cos., the Sydney wool
people, have dug up anew variety of the
spud of patriotism. At Pyrmont the co. has
a showroom floor, covering two acres, which
isn’t occupied during winter —the season
when the sheep is permitted to keep its
overcoat. Instead of letting this fine build-
ing lie idle, the co. struck the idea of off ex-in g
it to the Defence Department for use during
the long winter evenings, as a sort of off-
sider to the cadet scheme. The Department
smiled on the tentative proposal; whereupon
the Bridge people got to work, fitted up a
very complete gymnasium, extended the ser-
vice of baths, lavatories, etc., and then in-
vited the Department to step in and take
possession. The inevitable few remarks at
the opening display were made on an early
evening of this week.
The Amalgamated Society of Engineers
(Sydney branch) has sent out notices to
employers intimating that its members have
decided not to work with men who are
eligible for membership, but are not members
of the union. It is a curious position, because
it looks as if the Amalgamated Engineers
pointedly refer to some men who are mem-
bers of other unions. There are two Socie-
ties of Engineers—the Amalgamated, which
is a world-wide organisation, with branches
in Australia, and the Australasian Society,
which was formed by engineers who were
opposed to the idea of yielding the control
and funds of their organisation to a central
executive in England. Also there are at
least half a dozen unions which include men
engaged in some particular branch of engi-
neering. The Gas Employees’ Union and the
Tramway Employees’ Union also enrol en-
gineers. In some employments the members
of the English society are strong enough to
compel the enrolment of all employees in
their union, but in other places other unions
could compel members of the Amalgamated
Society to join their ranks or quit. It is
not at all unlikely that Sydney, having be-
come used to strikes arising out of a dispute
between employers and employees, over
wages, or hours, or smoke-oh, or the sack-
ing of Bill Jones, will be introduced to
another sort of strike—the sort produced by
the crime committed by Brown, who is a
loyal member of the Hencoopers’ Union, in
refusing to join the Hencoop Makers and
Finishers’ Society.
“0.K.” : Marshall Hall is in England, and
Melbourne’s musical world, outside of the
University Council, is wondering whether he
is a formal candidate for his old billet of
Ormond Professor of Music, made vacant
by the death of Peterson. Years ago the
impetuous, unbusinesslike Prof, was ill-ad-
vised in tendering his resignation, instead of
allowing the precious “scandal” over his
little book of verses to blow away like smoke.
Now his eager barrackers have rushed into
the breach with a circular to the Council
suggesting that “Mr. Marshall Hall should
be pressed to accept the responsibilities of
the Ormond Professorship.” This is absurdly
foolish. The Council, which allowed the
misguided “poet” to blow himself out of the
University because Mrs. Grundy was railing
at him can’t be expected to press him to
return. The billet is about to be advertised
as vacant in the ordinary way, and there
are one or two inevitable applicants on the
spot who have reasonable claims. If Mar-
shall Hall is to be chosen in preference, he
must make an application. If he waits to
be invited by the Council he will simply
remain out of it. His friends should advise
him to lodge an application by cable and come
to Melbourne right away on a health trip—
with the chance of being appointed to the
billet when he gets there.
* * * *
A cry of woe: —
For some time past there have been rumors of grave
industrial trouble in the Burglars’ Union (Sydney 1
branch). During the previous year, the secretary
reports, employment was steady and highly remunera-
tive. Every burglar was able to earn a living wage ;
and the conditions .of employment were so easy that
the union saw no reason to invoke the Wages Board
for a higher scale of remuneration. But, naturally,
news of this pleasing state of affairs filtered through
to the other States, and the inevitable result fol-
lowed. There has been a huge influx of unemployed
burglars, and the competition of the new-comers, who
are all free-laborers, has begun to tell. No com-
plaints are made by the secretary against Sydney
householders. Their residences are just as easy to
enter as they were last year. Nor does the executive
of the Burglars’ Union complain of any undue inter-
ference with their livelihood by the Sydney police.
These are still sufficiently busy on the enrolling of
Federal and State voters to keep them happily and
healthily engaged; and in the rare cases where a
policeman is supposed to be on his beat, he is in-
variably three suburbs away closely following a clue.
The sole trouble is that there are so many burglars
at work that there are not sufficient houses to go
round. The secretary makes a strong plea for one
house one burglar ; and in cases where two or more
burglars have decided to work on the same job, pref-
erence should be given to the members of the union.
The union officials are attempting to arrange matters
by a conference with the non-unionists, but, failing
an agreement, the Burglars’ Union_ is prepared to
picket householders’ residences against interference
with their members while engaged on their job. The
real remedy, however, seems to be the building of
more houses to cope with the extra burglary demand ;
but the secretary points out that, nending their con-
struction, real hardships will still be experienced.
The matter seems one for the Wages Board.
* * * *
Some philanthropic people in Adelaide
have been given reason to feel uncomfortable.
Nearly 10 years ago Wanda Radford, a South
Aus. infant phenomenon, was taken to set
the Thames on fire with her reciting. She
got big notices. Berlin also called her a
“wunderkind.” Then she grew bigger, and
settled down to study her arts., Now, at
just IS, she can act, and dance, and sing, but
is in poor health—“undeveloped,, wants rest,”
the German doctor says. I-ler mother wrote
out pathetic appeals to raise £IOO to give
the girl another year’s chance. Money rolled
in to a Register fund. And then her father
wrote, remarking coldly that he can support
liis own family, and asking that the sub-
scriptions given “under a misapprehension”
should be returned. Philanthropists hate
to be snubbed, so the ladies who had started
the fund handed the newspaper a bunch of
really heart-rending appeals extracted from
the mother’s letters, including direct sugges-
tions for a concerted effort by the rich people
of Adelaide. The collection is accordingly
to be sent on to Berlin, barring any part of
it that subscribers mav (fairly enough, con-
sidering all things) ask to have returned to
them.
THE HARBOR PIRATE.
Fares on all the Sydney Ferries Company’s services,
with the exception of Parramattta River, have been
increased.
F ERRYMAN: “Now, then, yer got to ante-up
something extra, as owing to my increasing
girth I finds it werry 'ard to take yers
across.”
Ballarat is becoming a sort of aviators'
Waterloo. First, there was Stone who,
after a flight of about 200 yards, dropped
like a man with his name should, and broke
his collarbone. Next, our own Hawker
bashed his machine about badly while giviug
an exhibition to the locals. And, recently,
Guillaux, the Gaul, met with his share of the
luck. Three-fourths of the crowd that went
to see him hung round on any sort of old
spot as long as it was outside the paying
ground. And, to top off, some energetic
crook subsequently pickpocketed what small
takings there were. The sky-pilot prayed
for his future in reinforced cuss-speech.
EPITHALAMIUM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The “appropriate song,” “Beloved, It is Morn,”
was sung. —Frequent wedding reports.
Beloved, it is morn: the flowery arch
Trembles to hear the strains of that sweet song,
Drowning the music of the Wedding March,
Lest lazy lovers lie a-bed too long.
Beloved, it is morn: no glimpse of moon
Misleads the cock. It is the infant day
That chanticleer has hailed —bold brat that soon
With ruthless hand will pluck the night away.
And still, to warn us from his seeking eyes
That, when the curtain of the night is torn,
Will stare upon us with a bold surprise,
The song returns: Beloved, it is morn.
Now seemly armor must our joyance don
To keep us safe against rude laughter’s scorn.
Get up, my dear, and lace it stoutly on:
Wake, Missus Smith: Beloved, it is morn !
N.SAV.
KHYBIL MIR.


A MATTER OF COMPETITION.
Owing to the paucity of the police and their engagement on other jobs, there has been such an in flux of burglars to Sydney that there are not enough
house to go round. The figure in the left-hand corner is the Lor on the track.


■What Liberalism was going to stand
for was the encouragement of individual
effort, equality of opportunity, and
equality at the ballot-box. Liberalism
stood for the Federal principle. Lib-
eralism was a spirit! not a set of planks
in a platform.
—Joe Cools at Maryborough
A very Interesting discovery was
made by him in Egypt. In the course
of his work he noticed that the skulls
of many long-dead Egyptians had been
worn thin on either side. This he
attributed to the wearing of the heavy
ceremonial wigs, which are familiar
ornaments in old Egyptian paintings.—
Age interview with Prof G B, Smith.
Thre
'fWe So*ne s€*»sc *n our
'SritTsti CusioVv? o Seteclii^
'fb* C g fe*non »i^s
tTW (ooK - & &
Cent's H/is »5 »7o
bolicy , Ini you lfs
Spirit' |
Voice Crowd.-— lt<^
old l*7 av
Sheet" The Government propose*
- _ in future to borrow iilso for
the const met ion of nuvul
buses and nil other defence
works. — Age
r^N,
m
IFe teerr
Cov7derr)ntt79 Jobn b^SS ,Or 7
|>wgilisno I?rti »$ 9u>l<?f~\l"
by 1m b&n£©v»3 \\)
Stl'ic.lwrcj \v /vy \ u
I ttseof" 7- I
owlfielmclge a^rvjVdni^t^ - !
li®- Uy *
ytha^c,
~Tvfo+' r<»s<2. Er
~ WiC rviy nted icitfe l/e- v/iH O ’',
grbw a{3 & pal who wi II r/N
Qook —" He Will , wl ten lie gr©v/$ m|Jat/
of
2\C
Modern
V W/illie YtedMrZET "keeri^i^
C°m|)!i rented o.w tse.
ss£ w e # & f
VICTORIAN, FEDERAL AND MIXED.


THE SINCEREST eulogy Zanetic ink paper re-
ceives is the constant effort to produce something as
good. Safety, satisfaction and economy ensured by
insisting on the original article, which produces per-
manent, dense pen-copies. Free samples if stamped
envelope sent to Zanetic Works, Leicester, England.*
GAELIC WHISKY
is now supplied in the
NEW PATENT NON-REFILLABLE
GUARANTEE BOTTLE.
The characteristics of GREAT
AGE, PURITY and QUALITY
have been most carefully pre=
served.
Agents: ORME, KEIGWINSCO.Ltd.
269-271 George Street, Sydney.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY,
HATS.
For
DURABILITY,
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
■ ——————— ——
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [2
EVERY DAY
more people are proving that
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes.
1
- j
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The most unusual thing about the latest
round-the-world-for-a-wager tourist who has
drifted into this Commonwealth —he claims
to be a Servian nobleman, Count of Monte-
forte —is that he is doing his ramble on a
cork leg.
“Shovel” thinks it may be his fault:—
As a youngster I was present at the reception given
on election night by Nhill supporters to W. H.
Irvine, when he defeated Minister Baker for the
Lowan seat, and so got into Victorian politics. Ex-
cited townsmen met him on arrival of the Adelaide
express, placed him in a buggy, took his hat off,
adorned his classic brow with a wreath of leaves
(presumably laurel, perhaps ivy), and made asses
of themselves by yoking into the shafts and dragging
the cart to a Victoria-street pub. Incidentally, I was
a member of a very junior local cricket club - which
languished for want of fdnds. We held an impromptu
committee meeting alongside the horse-trough, and
delegated two of
us to request a
donation. The asses,
having unyoked
themselves, crowded
into the bar parlor
and waited as
though they ex-
pected something.
I and the other
plen i p o tentiary
pushed our way in.
The future knight
was beaming and
positively glowing.
Then we tapped
him for a subscrip-
tion, and as he
handed out ss. he
suddenly seemed to
feel the cold
draughts that strike
a public man,
mostly in the trou-
sers pocket. We
went outside and
gave him three
cheers, but some-
how he has never
seemed the same
man since.
WATT, ex-Premier
of Victoria and
candidate for the
House of Repre-
sentatives.
Passed out at the great age of 96 (being a
prominent man his birth-date could be veri-
fied, which prevented him becoming a cen-
tenarian), the Earl of Wemyss, the dad of
the British House of Lords, and the last of
the really-incurable Tories. Also, he was
the only peer within this writer’s knowledge
who was ever accused of stealing a whale.
B - : When Joseph Cook takes his P.C.
he will swear, according to the ceremonial,
to advise the King to the best of his cun-
ning and discretion.” Another P.C. obliga-
tion is that he “must keep the King’s coun-
sel secret.” As lie won’t get any of it, that
will be easily done. Some years ago “P.C.”
had a larger significance. Even as late as
rhe days of W. B. Dailey, who was the first
Australian-born P.C., it: meant, if circum-
stances had sent Dailey to England, intimate
association with imperial affairs. Now it is
the little dry crust thrown by “the Crown”
to the politician who, as Joe Cook’s hymn
says, “stands shivering on the brink but
fears to venture in” where the coveted titles
are.
MR. SPEAKER
MEAGHER , of
N.S.W.
H. D. Broadhead, a Christchurch (M.L.)
young man of whom the cableman spoke re-
cently as having secured a first-class in mod-
ern and mediaeval languages at Cambridge,
has had a brilliant career. He went to the
Boys’ High School at Christchurch at 13. He
won a free place there every year that he
remained, and raked in most of the form
prizes for languages. In fact, his appetite
for languages, ancient and modern, could not
be satisfied. In 1908 he won a Junior Uni-
versity Scholarship, and passed to Canter-
bury College. Later, he won a senior M.L.
’Varsity scholarship in Latin and Greek.
He went to Fogland in 1911, and within a
few days of landing annexed an open exhibi-
tion at Trinity College, Cambridge. In
March, 1913, he bagged a senior foundation
scholarship, and three months later swept up
first-class honors in the second division of
the classical tripos. As an incidental he got
his B.xV. degree. A man with all those lan-
guages should have no difficulty in getting a
job as a police-court interpreter.
General Sir Percy Girouard, who has just
been divorced from his spouse on the ground
of incompatibility of temperament, is a
Canuck who, after an apprenticeship on
the Canadian Pacific, came under the eye
of Kitchener when that judge of men was
making his way towards Khartoum.
Girouard was in charge of the laying-down
of the line which made the march through
the desert possible, and later, in S’th Africa,
“K” made him Director of Military Bail-
ways. There the peppery temper which
finally parted him from his missus was often
on exhibition, though the lady in her evidence
was good enough to ascribe it to the climate
of East Africa, where Girouard was, of late
years, doing a job as governor. One Aus-
tralian regiment, at least, could certify to
Girouard’s temper. It was on its way to
East London (the regiment, not the temper)
to ship for home, and on the road it got a
bit off the chain, and things were lively at
the stations en route. An alarmed railway
staff-officer wired to Girouard, who was at
De Aar. When the train pulled in, the joy-
riders found themselves held up in a siding
by a strong force of regulars, with fixed
bayonets. All hands were bundled out,
rifles were taken away, and bottles were
rooted out and smashed. Then Girouard
said some things through his nose to the
officers, and sent the lot along to their desti-
nation under arrest. The transport was
ready when the crowd arrived, so matters
were allowed to drop, and all hands were
hurried on board with a blessing and a
shower of curses.
Mrs. L. E. Paul, who is going to carry the
red banner of the International Socialists
against Catts in the Cook electorate, is a
woman of outstanding ability, who has made
her mark not only in socialistic but also in
art circles. She is the wife of the colonel
who used to have command of the N.S.M.
school cadets. Of course she will bottom
the poll; but her candidature will brighten
up the struggle in that district, which is
more than can be said for many another
candidature.
Ralph Stock’s cruise in search of “copy”
for a new book or two has at least sup-
plied him with a thrill. Stock and three
others —one of them his sister —left Sydney
early in June for an extended South Sea
island tour, in a small auxiliary ketch.
Wanderlust. They came back in 24 hours
for repairs. They got through the Heads
again a week later, and next were heard of
from Lord Howe Island, after a rough trip.
Then the party made for Norfolk Island,
and that was the end of the hunt; for when
they tried to enter Emily Bay in tow of a
whaler, a couple of big seas upset the
lugger, washed it on the rocks, and in a few
minutes made splinters of it. The party got
ashore very moist but otherwise undamaged.
“ Jeames”: Lord Wernyss is dead, aged
96. A Sydney paper gives him nearly a
column of space. And yet he never did any-
thing of note. His most remarkable achieve-
ment really lay in the fact that, with every
opportunity to misbehave, he spent close
on a century without being found out in
any misdemeanor of any description what-
ever. What a wealth of righteousness, or
cunning, that represents! Why, when an
utterly unimportant old man dies in the
odor of virtue, do we lavish extravagant
praise on his deceased hairs? Obviously
because we admire his subtlety and capa-
city for acting. No one could be as utterly
innocuous, for 96 years, as Lord Wemyss
was, on his form in public. We know it,
and so, in acclaiming him, we acclaim,
really, his consummate genius as a long-
distance leg-puller.
The estate of Mrs. Townend, the wealthy
Christchurch (M.L.) citizen who passed
over recently, has been sworn for probate
purposes at £BOO,OOO, but it is expected to
finally wash up at over the million mark.
The Government will collar close on to
£200,000 in stamp duty and fees. The
deceased lady remembered everybody near
her, from her private secretary and adviser,
a comparatively young man, who gets about
£30,000, and her companion, a well-known
Christchurch woman, who gets a house and
£2OOO a year for life, down to her second
chauffeur, who gets £lOO a year for life.
Sundry parsons, numerous friends, relatives,
domestic employees also get annuities, and
several of them dwelling-houses as well. Her
four trustees get £5OOO each to start off with,
and her solicitor, who had watched over her
numerous affairs for years, gets £5OOO. Then
there are numerous bequests to charities,
mostly in Christchurch, running from £lO,OOO
down to £5OO. The residue of the estate is
to be handed to a cousin in Britain, and when
he reads the' will he’ll probably begin to
wonder if there’s going to be any residue.
“Jeames” discursively :
Joseph Chamberlain, just deceased, was one of
those rare human beings who can remain spare and
in condition without exercise of any sort. Leo XIII.,
Sir Henry Irving and Cardinal Moran were of the
same type. Joseph stepped into his little one-horse
brougham early in the morning at Princes Gate,
during the Boer war days, was driven to Dowmng-
street or the House, kept the one-horse shay waiting
in case he wanted to make a journey of over 50
yards at any time, and so home bv the same convey-
ance. Though he was an enthusiastic eater and an
inordinate smoker, he kept his boyish figure to the
end—or, at any rate, he had it when I last saw him
in 1906. His second wife was a pretty young
American woman, whom his son Austen had originally
met and admired. Loyal to his father in matters
of the heart, as in all else, the young man promptly
stepped aside when the older one indicated his
wishes. So Joseph remarried and acquired a most
devoted spouse, and —so far as the last eight or
10 wears of his life went—a highly competent nurse.
The first time T heard him speak was in the Park
at Blenheim, when the S’African war was looming.
His voice production must have been perfect, since,
though he never shouted —in fact, his tone was con-
versational to a degree—he could be heard on the
outskirts of the biggest crowd. He went down with
the populace in part, perhaps, because he spoke in
a language which the meanest intelligence could
understand,. unlike such flamboyant orators -as Glad-
stone, whom no one could comprehend at times.
Chamberlain was never guilty of a Greek or Latin
quotation, so far as I have heard, and he despised
poetry. It has been said of him that the only
classical author with whom he had any acquaintance
was Dickens. He was as unintellectual, probably, as
any great Britisher since Palmerston; and yet, by
reason of his force, he was the natural leader, at
about the time paralysis overtook him, of a party
which includes men like Balfour and the two Cecils.
A fellow-menial once told me that he was in the room
when Winston Churchill received the news that Joe
Chamberlain’s political end had arrived —that he had
been smitten by a stroke from which he could never
recover. Involuntarily Churchill said, under his
breath: “My God, if I had only known it was
coming!” Churchill had just previously declared
irrevocably for Freetrade and Liberalism. The in-
ference is that had he suspected that the seemingly
strong and youthful man, who was Conservatism’s
inevitable leader, was about to go out of the political
game he would have steered his course differently.
However, the whole story may be a lie. Twenty
years in the service of the nobility and gentry have
gone far to convince me that most of these stories are
lies.
MR. E. BRITTEN JONES, S. Australia's
best-known land expert, recently appointed
Deputy Surveyor-General.
Mrs. Frazer, who died in Sydney last week,
aged 79, was widow of John Frazer, • a
wealthy merchant, now some years dead.
John Frazer, in the ’4o’s, was a commercial
clerk living in Fort-street. Presently lie
started a grocery in Sussex-street, and a
little later on occupied a corner store whic.l
became gruesome or historic or notorious,
inasmuch as in it was murdered a widowed
shopkeeper, Mrs. Jamison, by the well-con-
nected scoundrel, John Knatchbull. I razor
clambered up to be the head of the big firm
of John Frazer and Co., having as partners
James Watson (one-time Treasurer) and
James Ewan.
CAMPBELL
CARMICHAEL
(N.S.W.)
making promises
to artists.
“Pick”: At Digman’s Creek (N.S.W.),
last week, Bob O’Neil closed his account
with Time after tallying 74 years. In his
day he had been a mighty trundler amongst
the cricketing fraternity of the Braidwood
and South Coast districts. He was other-
wise notorious as the game supporter who
offered to stand shoulder to shoulder
with Austin Chapman if the latter would
tackle with his fists a hostile importin';
crowd whom he couldn’t convert with his
eloquence.
THE FOOL’S SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Appalling realistic force.... The dreadful misery
with which Miss Starr clothes the character....
Madame X drifted through the dregs of life in places
to which the most pitiful wrecks of womanhood are
cast. . . .She is drunken ; she is diseased ; her mind is
half-destroyed hv drugs. . . .Miss Starr gave a horrify-
ing picture. —Extracts from a Sydney Sunday paper’s
laudatory notice of “Madame X.”
This life is far too gay—
At least, I find it so ;
Because I laugh all day,
I like a horrid show.
Grim worry and dull care,
And poverty and death —
These things are far too rare.
I laugh with ev’ry breath.
The cost of living’s so
Ridiculously cheap,
We all have cash to throw
Away, and time to sleep.
Joy is a common thing,
So sorrow we must seek ;
The actress who can wring
Some tears gets pounds a week!
And she who can portray
Disease and madness, too,
Is lauded night and day.
We are a funny crew !
Life is so sweet and bright—
So healthful, kind and sane,
We pay to get a fright,
And gorge ourselves with pain.
So this mad song I sing,
Like any straw-haired fool:
“Oh, Joy’s a common thing,
But Misery’s a jool!”
N.s.w.
KODAK.


r
y
7 :n
m
m
7/M
K 3
LESS 10 PER CENT, until JULY 18
Owing to our Midwinter Sale we quote Everything in our General Catalogue LESS 10 Per Cent.,
making the prices for
AUSTRAL SUITS TO MEASURE
OVERCOATS
CARRIAGE PAID ON ALL ORDERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
GOWING BROS.,
484, 486, 488 & 490 George Street; &3, 5,7, 9, 11, 13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, SYDNEY
Send for Sale Catalogue of 120 Pages of Everything for Men’s and Boys’ Wear.


High-Class
Woodworking Machinery 8 Engineers’ Tools
COVENTRY CHAINS FOR MOTOR LORRIES.
Kindly let us have your enquiries.
“ INQECO ”
FARM ENGINES.
SIMPSON BROS., 32-34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Overall, McCray, Ltd.
44 Campbell Street
SYDNEY.
SPECIALTY:
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Large Stocks also on hand—Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Pumps, &c. Send for Catalogue.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The N. S. Wales State Treasury claims a
surplus of £373,039 for the past year, as against a
deficit of £1,228,380 for the preceding year. Nomin-
ally, therefore, things have improved by £1,601,419.
But a good deal of the improvement exists only on
paper. Thus in 1912-13 £450,602 went in various
redemptions of debt, whereas in the past year only
£ 5631 was applied to that purpose —a shrinkage of
£444,971. In the same way grants-in-aid have been
reduced from £275,000 to nothing, and the Public
Works Fund, which is supposed to be fed primarily
on land-sales money, has had £23,157 less. The
balance of the “improvement” has been made up of
extra taxation, the pennies and ha’pennies added to
the tramfares, extra railway rates, etc. From
income tax alone an extra £632,045 has been
drawn (the total for the year is £1,393,841) and
stamp duties have brought in an additional
£279,917. It has taken all these cuts at sinking
funds, etc., and all these additions to direct and
indirect taxation to meet the constantly growing ex-
penditure and give a poor little £373(039 to the
good.
And, of course, that isn’t a legitipiate surplus.
The “land revenue” for the year was £1,762,876,
which differs very little from that of the previous
year. Now, in the previous year £999,363 of the
total “land revenue” was derived from land sales ; and
land-sales money isn’t revtenue. Assuming that
£950,000 came from this source in the past year,
then the alleged surplus is changed into a real
deficit of about £577,000. True, conscience-stricken
to some extent by the wholesale misappropriation of
this capital derived from the sale of the land, Parlia-
ment three or four years ago decided that certain
of the money (usually about a third of the lot)
should be passed to a Public Works Fund. That was
all very good so long as the Public Works Fund was
employed to purchase new assets. But, as a matter
of fact, instead of paying for public buildings, etc.,
out of this realised capital, such things are now
charged up to loans, and the Works Fund is mostly
used for tinkering jobs which should be charged
against revenue in any ease. The Labor Government
started off virtuously enough. But virtue is its
own reward, and this Government wanted much
better payment than that.
However, let the Government have whatever credit
it deserves for putting on enough taxes, direct and
indirect, to at least show a surplus according to the
methods of finance in vogue, whereas in the previous
year it showed a deficit even on that rotten system.
But precious little credit is deserved. In the first
place, no visible attempt was made to reduce expendi-
ture —except by garrotting or starving the sinking
funds. Irrespective of grants-in-aid and sinking fund
contributions, the expenditure went from £16,911,389
in 1912-13 to £17,948,679 in 1913-14. The actual
Government expenditure was therefore over a million
greater. This Government doesn’t know what economy
means. It is the wildest and most prodigal crowd
in Australian history. It is borrowing so madly
that the interest bill last year was £405,601 greater
than in the previous year, and 28 p.c. greater than
it was onlv four years ago ; and the money has been
poured wildly into undertakings which, with those
previously .in existence, bring in 44 p.c. more than
they did four years ago, while their working exes,
are 64 p.c. more. There can be only one outcome of
all this—an intolerable burden of taxation.
Last year the expenditure out of loans was
£8.996,540, exclusive of lOIJ’s repaid. The dreadful
record of the reckless State is shown hereunder: —
1907 ..£1,058,553 | 1911 ..£3,921,758
1908 . . 1,965.329 I 1912 . . 6,491,103
1909 .. 2,906,507 I 1913 .. 7,703,594
1910 . . 3,246,640 | 1914 . . 8,996,540
In 1907 the taxation amounted to 18s. 2d. per head,
and the surplus was so great that the taxation was
plainly at least 4s. per head too much. In 1911-12,
the year when the wild borrowing started, the taxa-
tion suddenly sprang to £1 2s. 6d. per head. In
1912-13 it was only 15s. lOd. per head; but as there
was a deficit of £1,228,000, it was obviously much
too little to keep the accounts square. In past
year the revenue from taxation was £2,437,539,
which means about £1 7s. 2d. per head. The more
the Government has borrowed the more it has thus
been necessary to wring out of the public in taxation,
in addition to increased tramway and railway fares,
etc This movement is not accidental. It is inevit-
able. A borrowing boom means waste and bad value
for the outlay; and the public has to make the short-
age good out of its own pocket.
Incidentally, there is another point. In two years
about £16,000,000 of borrowed money has been
spent by the Government. This, partly by creating
a fictitious demand for labor, has produced an utterly
fictitious prosperity, which has been reflected most
plainly in property values and rents. In 1910,
according to the excellent ICnibbs, you could buy for
18s. lOd. in Melbourne what would have cost you
19s. lid. in Sydnev. taking the average of the
necessaries of life. That was a difference of Is. Id. in
favor of Melbourne. Since then Victoria has borrowed
little while N. S. Wales has borrowed madly, and in
1913 what you could get for 21s. in Melbourne you
would have to pay 235. 7d. for in Sydney—a differ-
ence in favor of Melbourne of 2s. 7d. The borrowing
orgy does something more, then, than nroduce extra
taxation: it adds, also, to the cost of living, and is
thus an indirect as well as a direct tax.
The Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd.
(Melbourne) -
Dividends.
A
Pref. Written
Profits. (6 p.c.) Ord. Off. Deficit.
Mar., ’06.-13,846 3750 10 p.c.= 6250 722 147,818
Sept., ’06..16,012 3750 10 „ „ 6250 724 142,530
Mar., ’07..15,600 3750 12 „ ~ 7500 962 139,142
Sept., ’07.-15,666 3750 12 „ ~ 7500 979 135,705
Mar.. ’08..16,579 3750 12 ~ „ 7500 989 131,365
Sept., ’08..17,436 3750 12 „ „ 7500 4,085 129,264
Mar., ’09..15,485 3750 12 „ „ 7500 1,287 126,316
Sept. ’O9. .18,773 3750 12 ~ ~ 7500 1,568 120,361
Mar.. ’10..17,987 3750 12 ~ ~ 7500 1,338 114,962
Sept.. *10..20,870 3750 12 „ .. 7500 1,403 106,745
Mar., ’11...20,808 3750 12 7500 1,376 98,503
Sept., ’11..20,099 3750 12 ~ „ 7500 1,299 90,353
Mar., ’l2. . 19,782 3750 12 7500 1,282 83,103
Sept., ’12..23,077 3750 12 ~ 7500 1,267 72,543
Mar., ’l3. .19,762 3750 12 ~ .. 7500 1,260 65,291
Sept.. ’13..16,138 3750 12 „ ~ 7500 12,053 72,456
Mar., ’l4. . 18,387 3750 13 „ 8125 2,756 68,700
The co. was formed in 1902 with a capital of
£250,000, half in 6 p.c. pref. shares and the other
half in ordinaries, to take over and run an evening-
and a weeklv paper in Melbourne. Goodwill repre-
sented £198,000 of the capital. But as the goodwill
of a newspaper is a most mercurial asset, the direc-
tors set to work at once to replace it by something
with move substance in it. Fortunately -for the
shareholders, opposition held off —almost miracu-
lously, it has sometimes seemed—and that and a long
run of years of prosperity have allowed them to get
a little way off the perilously thin ice on which they
skated at first. Here are some detailed figures:—
Liabilities.
Mar., Mar., Mar., Sept., Mar.,
1907. 1912. 1913. 1913. 19U.
£ £ £ £ £
Sundry creditors 2,289 8,607 27,065 24,001 16,087
Freeholds . . 31,360 59,445 ’ 60,108 60,244 60,479
Machinery ..29,309 24,749 58,561 54,807 52,418
Stock .. 9,091 19,772 18,415 32,731 33,454
Liquid assets 54,637 82,788 85,940 65,014 62,912
The last line shows that liquid assets were cut into
deeply last year. r ihe fact is the Herald
sniffed a rival, and it got in new plant with which
to say “How d’you do?’’ But the rival didn’t
materialise; in fact, neither of the two threatened
rivals materialised. One—the Sun, of Sydney—
drew out of the field as soon as the Herald had
agreed to pay a share of the cost of a new cable ser-
vice ; the other issued an absurd prospectus, and thus
tailed to hatch out the necessary co. Still, the
Herald didn’t waste its money; besides being able
to put itself on the streets with greater speed,
it has probably done a bit to counteract the advance
in labor costs. Anyway, it celebrates the occasion of
having the dunghill definitely to itself for the pre-
sent by crowing out the news of a div. increased to
13 pc. for ordinaries. And after writing 5 p c
off plant for the half-year, it is still able to put bv
nearly £4OOO of profit towards replacing what is
left of the intangible goodwill item. It can verv
well do with lifts of that sort, because, as the first
table shows, there is still £68,700 of the capital
unrepresented by anything more substantial than
the gossamer substance called goodwill; and of the
capital that is represented by tangible assets £52,418
is in plant which has little value apart from goodwill.
Allen Taylor and Co., Ltd., timber mer-
chants, etc. (Sydney) :
Reserves
(including
. . To Re- Insurance
1 roht. Dividends. serves. Reserve).
v ily ’ ,21-' 10 p.c. = £3006 £1,576
\i° V '’ -a0" £3579 10 >• *> 3000 £579 2.155
May, 08.. 3367 10 „ „ 3000 367 2,522
vr° V '’ >ao" 3185 10 » - 3000 185 2.707
May, 09.. 6389 10 „ „ 3750 2639 5.346
Premiums on new shares 1875 7 221
Nov., 09.. 5029 10 p.c. = 3750 1279 B^soo
May, 10*. 5377 10 „ „ 3795 1582 10,082
Premiums on new shares 3125 13 207
Nov., 10.. 6605 10 p.c. = 4614 1991 15,198
May, Ml.. 6306 10 „„ 5000 1306 16!504
Nov., 11.. 6522 10 „ „ 5000 1522 18,026
Premiums on new shares 3125 21,151
May, 12.. 6561 10 p.c. = 6054 507 21 658
Nov., 12.. 7743 10 „ „ 6250 1493 23.151
May, ’13.. 7484 10 „ „ 6250 1234 24,385
vi 0V ‘’ ,*?'* 8318 10 » ” 0250 2068 26,453
May, 14.. 8776 10 „,, 6771 2005 28,458
Like most of the others, this timber co. has been
having a great time. The mere handful of people in
N. S. Wales has spent £16,000,000 of Government
loan money during the past two years, and in the
scattering of cash with a lordly hand Allen Taylor,
Ltd., has been in a position to pick up more than a
crumb or two. So far as can be ascertained the
management has been under no delusion as to the
more or less ephemeral character of the harvest
Hence, in addition to what the directors declare to
be ample depreciation allowances,” which have been
written off profits, an insurance and general reserve
fund has been established apart from the business: it
now is £21,800 in credit, the bulk of it on deposit
or invested in Sydney City Council debentures. Fur-
ther, no large risks are taken by piling up liabilities
represented on the other side by stocks that may be
easy enough to shift just now, but mav not be so
easy to shift presently. As the next list shows, lia-
bilities total £37,386, and apart from the insurance
and general reserve investments ( £21,800) and the
book debts (£62,018), there is a liquid £24,520 on
hand:—■
Liabilities.
Nov., May, Mav, Nov., May,
1906. 1912. 1913. 1913. 1914.
£ £ £ £ £
Capital . . 60,000 125,000 125,000 125,000 150,000
Debts . . 9,597 18,509 31,773 35,651 37,386
Assets.
Country mills 3,825 18,535 24,310 24,777 35,590
Pyrmont
wharves,
mill, etc.. . 15,900 5,000 4,000 3,750 6,000
Vessels .. 18,050 33,402 27,201 27,401 31,183
Book debts,
etc. . . 25,517 49,399 56,187 63,916 62,018
Cash, etc. . . 1,010 14,038 15,987 13,411 24,520
Stocks . . 9,502 33,906 40,731 39,800 41,504
Certainly this remarkably strong position has been
helped by the recent issue of 25,000 new £1 shares
at par. But this new capital hasn’t all been hoarded.
There has been considerable outlay on country mills,
etc. ; for one thing, the co. is putting a lot of money
into Port Stephens. Stocks are kept moderate; evi-
dently this management doesn’t believe that cost of:
production is going to increase so much that it will/
pay to buy now and fill the yards with stocks that’ 1
consume interest and insurance money. As for stocks*
on their valuation profits depend very largely. Ob-
viously if a co. values its stocks at more than they
cost, it inflates its present profits and reduces its
prospective profits. Hitherto stocks have been de-
scribed by the directors as “valued under cost” ; this
time they are described as having been “carefully
valued,” which may be the same thing, but isn’t so
definite and satisfactory. However, that isn’t enough
to spoil the taste of an exceptionally attractive bal-
ance-sheet.
H. McKenzie, Ltd., timber merchants,
etc, (Sydney) :
Dividends.
Pref. To Re- Re-
Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ jg
Mar., ’07.. 4,267 2000 6 p.c. =1125 1,142 3,879
Sept., ’07.. 8,466 2000 7 „ „ 1992 4,474 8,353
Mar., ’OB.. 7,499 2000 7 „ „ 2029 3,470 11,823
Sept., ’OB.. 7,472 Nil 7,472 19,295
Mar., ’09.. 7,362 Nil 7,362 26,657
Sept., ’09.. 6,539 Nil 6,539 33,196
Mar., ’lO.. 8,873 2000 7 p.c. =2029 4,544 38,040
Sept., ’10..10,248 8000 14 „ „ 4088 36,200
Mar., ’ll.. 16,437 2000 10 „ „ 2899 11,538 47,733
Deferred Ordinarv dividend. .8117 30,621
Sept., ’11..16,857 2000 10 p.c. =2899 11,958 51,579
Mar., ’12..12,910 2000 10 „ „ 2899 8,011 59,590
C Deferred Ordinary div. 7176 52,414
All shares.
Sept., 12-!
I. 14,409 10 p.c. = 4899 9,510 61,924
Premiums on new shares. . 252 62,176
Mar., ’13.. 13,577 10 p.c. = 6500 7,077 69,253
Sept., ’13..11,369 10 „„ 6500 4,869 74,122
Mar., ’14.. 6,594 Nil 6,594 80,716
But the 10 p.c. dividend for the half-year to Septem-
ber, ’l3, hasn’t actually been paid yet. McKenzies
are in the wholesale trade; that is to say, they deal
direct with the log-choppers, and the log-choppers
have to be financed. But it is one thing to chop down
a tree and another to get it to market. Mostly the
timber is brought down the rivers ; and the rivers of
Australia and Maoriland are erratic worms. Some-
times logs accumulate in vast quantities, waiting for
enough water to float them down, or (on the N.S.W.
North Coast particularly) pending a favorable bar
harbor. Last summer was unusually dry in Maori-
land ; hence stocks piled up there, and every avail-
able penny was wanted by this co. to finance the
timber-getters. So the 10 p.c. div., though duly
passed, wasn’t actuallv paid; and for the same reason
no dividend is declared now, though the directors hold
out hopes of an interim. They- have the power to
declare one. Logs are coming down now all right;
and the market for timber is still excellent, though
not quite as abnormally good as it was (say) 12
months ago. It is possible, therefore, that the with-
held plum will fall into shareholders’ mouths before
long.
All the same, a keen eye ought to be kept on the
growing liabilities: —
Mar., 1910 . . £45-,606 Sept., 1912 . . £72,276
Sept., 1910 .. 45,112 Mar., 1913 .. 55,836
Mar., 1911 . . 32,463 Sept., 1913 . . 70,958
Sept., 1911 . . 38,768 Mar., 1914 . . 83,444
Mar., 1912 . . 46,796
Thus in four years the co. has got about £38,000
further into debt, notwithstanding that £32,000
more capital has been gathered in. The explanation
lies not merely in the growth of advances on logs,
etc. (which is mostly a temporary matter, as ex-
plained above), but in the tremendous increase of
stocks. Compare the figures of the present and three
years ago:—
Mar., 1911. Mar., 1914.
Advances .. .. £22,794 £53,167
Stocks .. . . 54,906 119,131
Total . . . . £77,700 £172,298
If timber-getting is to cost more money presently, it
may be very good business to pile up stocks like this.
But if the demand for timber should slump, as it
will sooner or later, tnen the co. may find no advan-
tage in accumulating these big stocks, which mean-
time cost a lot of money in interest, not to mention
insurance, etc. In short, besides being a timber
merchant, the co. seems to be backing continued
high prices (which means to a great extent the main-
tenance of the construction boom) ; and it is for the
investor to say whether he reckons that this is some-
thing in favor of the co. and the stock or otherwise.
The profit shown for the past half-year is much less
than usual. The directors say: “In consequence of
the increase in wages and other exes, the profit is
smaller; but arrangements have now been entered
into which will put the business on a more profitable
footing.’’ Naturally the piling up of stocks in log
and at the mills and yards cut into profits, because
no doubt most of the £83,444 owed by the co.
carries interest; anti if the accumulation in log
meant that the co. couldn’t complete sales, the ex-
planation is sound enough. As for profits, by the way>
the table puts them at £6594; but £1460 of that
is transferred to a depreciation fund, and probably
that ought to be written oil. Mostly much more
than £1460 is struck off for depreciation; and that
suggests that the £5134 net profit claimed for the half-
year might be overstated. Everything, however,
depends on the valuation of the stock. If the large
additions have been taken in at cost price, and the
declared profit based only on sales, there should be a
good time ahead, even though the timber market
shouldn’t continue so exceptionally strong; on the
other hand, if stocks have been taken at more than
cost price it means that future profits have been
discounted. Which practice has been adopted Tub
Bulletin doesn’t know; hence it confesses that it
doesn’t know just about the most important thing
that there is to know regarding this co. What it
does know about the trade generally is that it is one
of quick, fat profits under favorable conditions, and of
long and very cold seasons when trade conditions arc
not favorable. In these latter periods the timber-
men have to pursue custom across the earth; whereas
of late the Australian demand has been so good that
a lot of them haven’t even looked as far afield as
South Africa, which was a fine market a few years
ago.
* * * *,
The Equitable Permanent Benefit,
Building, Land and Savings Institution (Syd-
ney) ' Written Uc-
March, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1902 ..£8,431 9p:c. = £6,838 £622 £28,263
1903 .. 8,466 12 ~„ 8,451 210 2.8,058
1904 . . 8,966 9 „ „ 6,338 1053 29,633
1905 . . 9,086 9 „ ~ 6,338 30 32,351
1906 . . 9,545 12 „ „ 8,451 677 32,768
1907 .. 9,875 9 „ „ 6,338 . 36,305.
1908 .. 10,102 9 „ 6,338 518 39,551
1909 . . 9,933 12 ~ „ 8,'451 455 40,578
1910 . . 10,741 9 „ „ 6,338 760 44,221
1911 .. 11,835 9 „ „ 6,338 100 49,618
1912 .. 12,50 S 15 „ ~ 10,504 303 51,496
Premiums on .pew shares, £1942 . . • 53,438
1913 .. 12,365 9 p c. = 7,204 88 58,511
1914 .. 18,890 I-' 9 ~ „ 8,401 80 68,920
The real profits for the past year were probably
about £15,000. During the year capital Infs been
increased from £80,137 to £93,000. r llle new
shares were sold by tender, and “were disposed ot at
highly satisfactory . premiums.” No mention is made
of the size of those premiums—the highly unsatisfac-
tory method is adopted of dropping this premium
capital into profit and loss account, where it should
never appear. Apparently instalments of premiums
on shares disposed of in the previous year have also
been included. In past years revenue from entrance
fees has been usually about £2OO. Last year; “fees
and premiums” brought in £4023; so it looks as
though the profit shown in the last line is :over-
stated by about £3BOO, which would be about the
total of the premiums. Business has been pretty
brisk during the year, and the directors put this down
to the withdrawal of business competitors on account
of the stringent money market. Prevailing high
rents have also no doubt driven scores of people to
go to this and other institutions for help to become
their own landlords. And as building-society terms
are easily complied with during periods of high
wages, the co.’s figures have lately had a quick bulge.
This table shows how new advances have been
moving:—
1907 .. £52,514 | 1911 .. £89,643
1908 .. 51,245 I 1912 .. 115,455
1909 .. 64,004 ! 1913 .. 116,687
1910 .. 76,622 | 1914 . . 104,825
Thus, notwithstanding the growing demand, the co.,
in view of the very heavy and probably quite abnor-
mal cost of building, has wisely put on the brake.
As it is, the amount of advances on mortgages is
£336,553, and to finance this the co. has taken
£221,912 of deposits. Besides the mortgages the
co. has £30,080 in liquid assets and £18,604 in
Pitt-street (Sydney) office property, the latter at pre-
sent almost as good as liquid ; total £48,684. Deduct
that from the £221,912 of deposits, and you have
£336,553 of mortgages to secure £173,228 of
deposits. The other liabilities are a few pounds only
of unclaimed balances, etc. This means that the
whole of the securities would have to slump very
nearly 10s. in the £ below book value to endanger
the deposits; and though the very rottenest of the
securities might behave as badly as that, It is
almost impossible to conceive of the whole lot doing
it. While there is thus no room for depositors to
feel any uneasiness, shareholders are entitled to
reflect comfortably on a solid business connection,
and on profits which for many years past have been
so much in excess of the dividends that it would
take a severe bump to knock the latter down-from
their present perch.
NEWCASTLE-WaLLSENI) COAL Co. —As an-
nounced in a recent Bulletin, this co. proposes to
double its capital by an issue of bonus shares.
The co. is, however, advised that the business will
have to be, as it were, manoeuvred through. Though
the capital has for a ldng while stood at £lOO,OOO
it seems that about 40 years ago “the then directors
returned'to the then proprietors the sum of £60,000,
thereby reducing the amount paid up on the shares
to £4 each, and reducing the paid-up capital to
£40,000.” The directors are now advised that “no
increase of capital can be effected until the initial
authorised capital of £lOO,OOO has been restored.”
They don’t explain how it fs that the capital has
for years past stood in the balance-sheet at £lOO,OOO,
though it is alleged to have been reduced to £40,000.
Anyhow, the scheme mow is to call up £6 per share
and at the same time “declare a bonus of £6 per
share out of the surplus capital and undivided profits
of the co. ’ This seems an extraordinary proposal.
Car. a co. declare a bonus out of “sur plus capital ’ :
Xo doubt it can return capital; but when it does so
it must surely write its capital down, otherwise we
should have the remarkable spectacle of cos. mas-
querading as possessed of large capital when, as a
matter of fact, they had entirely divested themselves
of it. No doubt, having reserves of upwards of
£60,000, the co. may therefrom pay out a bonus of
£60,000 in shares, thus (in other words) capitalising
its reserves. But this will exhaust its visible reserves ;
and it proposes to issue another £lOO,OOO of bonus
share capital. The only visible way in which this
can be done is by disclosing inner reserves; that is
to say, by writing up its assets. And it is a moot
point whether a co. can write up its assets for the
purpose of a distribution of bonus shares. Some
X. S. Wales cos. have certainly been advised that it
can’t be done legally'; one was advised that it couldn’t
even restore values written off. though (as in the
case of the St. Joseph’s Building Society') it might
restore value written off in order to restore capital
written off shares. Presumably the Wallsend has
got the best of advice ; if it hasn’t—well, there are
a lot of pitfalls that way.
Western District Co-operative Pro-
duce Co. (Vic.):—
Bonus to Sup- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends, pliers, etc. serves.
1910 .. £4989 5 p.c. = £BO £4747 £2857
1911 .. 7153 5 „ „ 181 6897 2932
1912 .. 9G96 5 „,, 314 8454 3860
1913 .. 6437 5 ~ „ 672 5975 3650
1914 . . 6462 5 .. ~ 899 5555 3658
This co. takes the place in Victoria that the
Coastal Farmers’ Co-operative fills in N. S. Wales,
its shares being held mostly by co-operative butter
factories, whose output it markets either locally or
in Europe. On the whole, its members appear to be
much better co-operators than those of the Coastal
Farmers, not being so ravenous for cash bonuses.
When it was formed 10 years ago, its capital was
only £200; now it is £i7,979, and practically the
whole of the increase has been brought about by the
shareholders very prudently taking the greater part
of their bonuses in shares instead of cash. Last
year the capital was increased by £4510 by this
means; this year another £4OlO (out of a total
distribution of £5555) goes in the same way.
The authorised capital is £40,000. At the present
rate of progress, the whole of the capital should be
paid up in about six years. Then, assuming that
£40,000 is enough trading capital, the profit will
be available for cash distribution and the share-
holders will draw their dividend on the money
they' have put back into the business as well as the
trifle they actually paid out of pocket. Besides its
buttery; the co. runs a box factory; and though it
owns up to a loss for the year of £67, the various
butter factories and farmers, through it, have made
an estimated saving of £l6OO. The eo.’s turnover
for the year was £811,062. which compares very
favorably with £552,807 five years ago. Naturally
with so large a turnover and so small a share capital
the co. has to lean to some extent on its banker.
At the end of April, liabilities amounted to £42,702,
which includes an overdraft of £28,352. It is
astonishing that the figures are so small; nothing
but the breaking-in of the retailers to practically a
C.O.D. system could make it possible. There is
also ai grain and farm-produce department, but so
far it hasn’t reached any very large proportions.
Australian Marine Fibres, Ltd. — This
co., formed early in 1911, has made no sure pro-
gress out of the bog into which precipitation and
wild estimates landed it at the outset. The object
of the co. was to dredge up the fibrous remains of
a marine plant which grows in large crops in Spen-
cer’s Gulf (S.A.). The allegation was that this stuff
would have an enormous sale for use in the manu-
facture of blankets, serges, textile fabrics, carpets,
matting and other things. Some very rank estimates,
etc., were put forward by an English co. The pro-
moters of this Australian co., using these unreliable
figures, constructed a beautiful castle, with an annual
profit of £140,000 waiting in the cellar. On “very
conservative” figures supplied by somebody else the
promoters said that a profit of £40,450 would do to
go on with. There is no reason to suppose that the
promoters didn’t believe all this; at any rate, they
took no cash, but were satisfied with 310,000 shares
(55.). The public was offered another 240,000, but
applied for only 122,144. The estimates in the
prospectus were based on the work of three dredges ;
as a matter of fact, but one dredge has been bought,
and not only has all the capital been exhausted, but
the co. is £3147 in debt, and has given the bank a
mortgage over its assets, backed by the “joint and
several” of the directors. The prospectus alleged:
“There is no expensive development or other pre-
liminary work to be done. The fibre is easily and
cheaply raised; it is already deglutinised by the
process of nature, and after washing and drying is
practically ready for the manufacturer’s use.” In
this third year of the co.’s life the proceeds of fibre
sales amounted to only £572, and the “development
account” stands at £9494; that is to say, it has so
far cost £10,065, in addition to the outlay on leases,
dredge, jetty, etc., to put £572 worth of stuff on
the market. Nor is the development work finished
yet. The market, which three years ago was alleged
to be avid for the material, simply does not yet
exist. What little has been sold appears to have
been mostly sold locally, not for the manufacture of
fine fabrics, but for rope bagging and boiler covering.
Of course things are going to be all right, though
the piping is now in a minor key. The managing
director spent 12 months in Europe, and can merely
say that “the beneficial results of my visit are now,
I believe, about to be obtained.” It is all very
discouraging ; and yet, on the reports of wool-manu-
facturers, upholsterers, etc., there ought to be a
market. There were, among others, Middlemost
Bros. & Co., Ltd., of the Clough House Mills, Hud-
dersfield, who said they had tested the stuff in the
manufacture of tweeds, and considered it suitable
and worth 2d. per lb. : and E. J. Bickford, a Sydney
furniture man with a lot of experience, reported that
it had great advantages over hair, kapok, flock and
other usual upholstering material in that its “original
cost is less, insurance is nominal on account of its
non-inflammability, and it can be handled with per-
fect safety.” The co. started with too much “water,”
too little capital, and too terrific a screech. But
these things don’t affect the value of the fibre or the
quantity available. There appears to be no doubt on
the latter point at least. But it appears to be very
doubtful whether the present co. can last till a big
enough market has been found or made.
If J. S. Inch, the managing director of
the Co-o». Insurance Co. (Svdney), was responsible for
asking £50,000 from the Sydnev Sun for an alleged
libel, he was a very mise-uided man. If what .the
Sun said was a libel at all it was too mild to make
anyone blink, let alone scotch his whiskers, and to
ask £ 50,000 for it was merely calculated to suggest
to Judge and jury that the'plaintiff didn’t know the
value of figures. Therefore, as this was a case in
which the value of figures was everything, the co.
prejudiced its case before it went into court. Three-
fourths of the proceedings hung on the question
whether the ,co.’’s. outlay in excess of revenue at the
end of the second year could be described as an
accumulated loss’; and in the welter of words policy-
holders and others interested got more fogged pro-
bably than they .were before the case started. Hence
it is just well to reproduce some of what The
Bulletin said about the co. and its second balance-
sheet (B. 4/12/’l3) :
“The co. started in July, 1911, with a deficit of
£3OOO, represented by promoters’ shares:—
Added to
July, Income. Claims. Expenses. Deficit. Deficit.
1911.. £3,000
Sept.,
1912.. £4.441 £lO4 £16.625 £12.288 15,288
1913.. 10,#74 167 15,107 5.200 20,488


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTOR?.
WALTER C. WATT
(Chairman).
Hon. HENRY MOSES,
M.L.C.
Hon. R. J. BLACK,
M.L.C.
T. H. KELLY.
J. 0. FAIRFAX.
Subscribed Capital
£1,030,003 0
Uncalled Capital 950,000 0
Reserves and
Undivided Profits 62,000 0
Perpetual Deposit
with Government 20,000 0
0
0
0
0
Trust Funds under Administration as
at 31st March, 1914. £11,091,895 6 3
Absolute Security and Efficiency of Trust
Management is assured by the Appoint*
ment of this Company to act as
TRUSTEE, EXECUTOR, ADMINISTRATOR,
ATTORNEY UNDER POWER, or AGENT, Etc.
REASONABLE CHARGES.
Write or call for Booklet.
A. ,I, MACKENZIE, Manager.
K. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Asst. Manager.
EFFICIENT SERVICE
under all conditions is ensured
by installing
-mnnrii
GAS ENGINES and
SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
Write for Catalogue to
Scottish House, 90 William Street, Melbourpe.
Kyncch House, 277 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Moore, on “Facts.” says: “Mere estimates of time
are always unreliable,” and if you, Mr. Plant Owner
or Engineer, have to depend upon “mere estimates ’
of the time your pulleys work —that is unreliable
but you can end it by using “Pioneer” Leather, Belt-
ing on every drive in your plant, for “Pioneer” runs
slacker than ordinary belting, and this means pulleys
turning at full speed all the time with less strain
on shafting and friction on bearings. “Pioneer” is
made from the centre cuts of flawless Australian ox
hides, which are tanned in our own tannery and
built up in the big “Pioneer” factor}'. Let our near-
est office help you to get positive pulley results.
“Pioneer” is made only bv -J. C. Ludowici & Son
Ltd., Pioneer Works, 117 York Street, Sydney
(opp. O. V. Markets') : and sold in Victoria by Geo.
Russell Pty., Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne; in
South Australia by J. McKell, Timpson Street, Port
Adelaide; in Queensland, by Queensland Machinery
Co. Ltd., Brisbane; in W. Australia, by Horace
Summers, Howard Street, Perth ; in Broken Hill, by
Geo. C. Dempster, Argent Street.*
* * * *
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Win. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
* * * *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vie.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. Gd. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to tis. Sd. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2s. Sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow icin. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis lCug. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [2
Extract from The Review, London, December 5,
1013, re The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Ltd.:—“Life policies alone do not appeal to some in-
dividuals. Therefore, the Society’s combined accident
and sickness policy, if fully advertised, should meet
with the acceptance deserved. This is a branch offer-
ing much scope for energetic development. This
office, we are sure, will press forward and transact a
much larger business of this kind in coming years.
It is an interesting office in every way, being
thoroughly equipped to carry on its work with the
maximum amount of good for its policyholders.”* [3
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is being used in the big
undertakings by all the State Governments. It has
been proved to be the most satisfactory piping for
water systems in all classes of soil, Catalogue from
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., 57 York Street,
Sydney (head office).*
Mr. R. O’Hara, Glen Innes, writes: “I have much
pleasure in advising you that 1 have now used the
,34-b.h.p. Hornsby Stationary Oil Engine for the
past eight seasons, shearing over 130,000 sheep, some
of the shearers tallying over 200 sheep per day, the
average 1684 per man. During the whole time I
have had the engine in use it has never given the
slightest trouble, and not a moment has been lost,
the shearers stating that they have never experienced
such a smooth-running engine.”—lt. Hornsby &,Sons,
Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane.* fl
Harringtons Ltd., the Photographic Merchants, of
386 George Street, Sydney, will give the highest
returns for all kinds of residues, lurge quantities of
jewellers’ sweeps, polishings, handwash and lemel,
process worker’s residues, plating baths and any
other materials containing gold, silver or platinum.
Harrington’s assay department can execute assays
for jewellers within two or three hours, and pro-
spectors and others are assured of immediate attention.
All kinds of analytical and metallurgical work can
be executed promptly, and advice given on all
branches of industrial chemistry and metallurgy. The
whole of the work is directed by a qualified analyst
and metallurgist from Johnson & Sons, London,
Assayers and Refiners to the Bank of England, H.M.
Mint, the Council of India, etc., etc. Harringtons
can also arrange to send large parcels of sweeps,
residues, ores, etc., direct to Messrs. Johnson & Sons,
London.*
* * * *
.1. Malcolm Newman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Street,
Sydney.*
CLAUDE BRISTOW, Assayer and Analvtioal
Chemist. Sampling supervised. 03 Pitt Street,
Sydney.*
Have You. an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.*
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
♦ * * ,
Mine managers when requiring new Steam Boilers
are invited to communicate with Babcock & Wilcox,
Ltd., who have supplied their Patent Safety Water-
tube Boilers to the majority of leading mines in
Australia.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for in-
ventors’ Guide.*
Assavers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh: hand sample grinders to
120 mesh: Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000’
grain : weight: pocket transits ; gasoline combination!
furnaces: Morgan’s crucibles: chemicals: etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Poldi Steel
FOR ALL MINING REQUIREMENTS.
’Phone
CITY-8332.
171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
That doesn’t look well; but it would be almost im-
possible for the figures of any insurance co. to look
well for the first two or three years. This, at any
rate, can be said: the co., though it got much more
business in the second year, didn’t go nearly as far
to leeway in getting it. Really, of course, though a
deficit of £20,488 is shown above, the co. is more
money out of pocket than that, because the income
isn’t profit—the co. has to supply insurance for it.
The exact position can’t be ascertained till a valua-
tion has been made of the policy liabilities; in
other words, until we know what the co. ought to
have saved up at the end of the second year towards
paving the policies as they fall due. For the
prkent, all that can be said is that, if every policy-
holder forfeited his policy now, and no more claims
had to be naid, the co. would have £31;791 of its
total capital of £52,279 available to refund to
shareholders, assuming that its assets are worth 20s.
in the £. If it had to pay another co. to take
over its contracts there would be less. On the other
hand, the co. has (at great expense, no doubt) estab-
lished a certain connection and goodwill.”
The heavy outlay of an insurance office in its early
years always does cause trouble. Xo eo. is prepared
to admit that the money has gone for good ; in the
same way a firm which has spent £lO,OOO on an
advertising campaign in a year isn’t prepared to
admit that it has lost £BOOO because at the end of
that year the shrieking has brought in only £2OOO
of net revenue. Even a Judge or a barrister wouldn’t
admit that, if his training cost him £lOOO, there
was a dead loss of £ 995: at the end of the first
rear’s practice which brought him in only a fiver.
On the other hand, what can you do with the £995
but show it as a deficit? The best you can do is to
sav that possibly the outlay will bring in a harvest
by-and-bve. But there is no surety about it. The
man may die, or get tongue-tied, or get weary of
waiting for briefs and go on the land or the press
or the drunk, as many have done. And an insur-
ance co. is in the same position; after spending its
”20,000 in excess of income, it may find that all its
“business extension” expenditure isn’t drawing busi-
ness worth a cent. The most any critic can say is
tt(at the seed has been sown; but whether it will
come up thistles, or whether it will come up any-
thing at all, or whether it will ripen if it does come
up, he can’t say. The whole trouble is that the
optimistic insurance' husbandman wants him to
assume a 20-bushel harvest; and the critic simply
can’t do it and be honest. So the verdict in the
Sun case was for the defendant; and Tiie Bulletin
is wondering whether the Co-op. will next year show
the costs as a goodwill asset, too.
B. H. Block 1(1 mill is making remarkably
high recoveries from 11 p.c. lead ore. In four weeks 1044
tons of concentrates, worth 29.50 z. silver and 05.5 p.c.
lead, and loaded with 5.4 p.c. zinc, came from 8234
tons of crudes assaying B.loz. silver, 11.1 p.c. load and
11.9 p.c. zinc. This means a recovery of 74 p.c of the
lead originally in the ore. But as nearly 8 tons of
nudes are required to produce a ton of concentrates,
high recoveries don’t necessarily imply large profits.
The mine is computed to have a life of 24 years;
but' there are chances of other bunches of ore bein"
found, and these may extend that period a trifle. “
.On the failure of the copper market to
buck up, coupled with a by no means brilliant out-
look for prices. Lloyd’s, at Burraga (N.SW), has
once more given it best. Within a month 200 men
will be out of work.
* * * *
Mount Ross diamond mine, at Copeton
(N;S.W.), has washed up 16 loads of dirt for 52
carats. The stones are from the eastern run, which
is about to be operated from the deep shaft.’ It is
something to know the weight of the stones in the
parcel; it, would be worth more to know the weight
and value of the largest stone.
Bendigo last half-year showed the host
dividend total for six months’ work' since 1906
except for the first half of 1909. The gold won was
valued at £357,000. Calls wore £33,114 and divi-
dends £81,798, the surplus profits of the field for
the six months being thus £48,684. While these
figures read well they fail to flatter, because nearly
the whole of the dividends have come from mines
working at comparatively shallow depths. The
leader. New Chum Goldfields, with £17,000, not
all its gold at about 1060 ft. Great Extended
Hustlers, with £14,000, was not much deeper, and
South New Moon , mined its £BOOO of dividends
out of ground about the same depth as New Chum
Goldfields. Central Blue sank to the fourth rilace
in the div. list, and will go lower unless mining
below 850 ft. becomes profitable. The sad feature,
then, at Bendigo, is that the- old deep mines have
to poke ((bout in the shallow ground for patches left
rears back. This is not nermanence, so that a
change in the fortune of the field is rot possible
tHI pluckv pebnle have a shot at neglected side-
lines. The inducement is in the reward that
went to the old hands who, by sinking from the
surface makes, on the jChurri a”d Moon lines, set
the field on its feet, thus enabling it to build up
the greater portion of the output of 19,793,0000 z.
standing as its record.
**■ * *
.All the pother over the Cathcart Central
'Tic.) cannot hide the hard fact that when the
"round left to the south of No. 2 rise down to tlm
shaft is panelled out. the eo. will have to hustle if
it wants to avoid a stoppage of dividends! The
burst of slime at No? ■ 4 rise ma V ease the water
pressure, hut it also betokens heavy ground, and
heavy ground means costly work. Tn the fight over
the directors’ seats Bill Rain got hustled out. and
Harry Dodd skimmed in by a head. MeCrorev
nroved to be a staver, only because be was fed up
by Some of the'folks who ratted on Rain. D. H.
Browne keens on as manager. Tire Bulletin won’t
be surprised if, as a new mine has to be opened
up on th” south-west, a second stoppage of divs. has
to take place, no matter what the new blood may
do.
* * * *
South Berry, Creswiek (Vic.), expects to
nay, a liquidation dividend of 2s. The co. attempted
to make a block of the old West Berry claim pay-
able, but the wide field of wash hardly nave wages
out of the gbld won, and occasional calls had to
be made. It took six years’ work to find this out :
but at last word has come to pull up the rails and
auction the plant. Thus passes out another way-
farer in Alee Peacock’s office. Lucky for him that
he synchronises this loss with the gain of Watt’s
salary as Premier.
*.* * *
What a record is that of the Berry lead,
where the shutting down of the South Berry means
the end of mining in Creswiek ! From the rush of
1851 in the shallow ground to 1914, £20.000.000
of gold has come out of the field. Yet Madame
Berry was the only mine to get an output of over
£1,500,000 of gold. Of that, £855,000 went as
dividends to shareholders. Next door, the Berry
Consols distributed £375,895 from £927,649 of gold
won. Higher up the gutter the Lone Hand and the
Ristori were responsible for yields worth £517,330
and £430,918 respectively, and for dividends of
£244,450 and £199,500. These four giants were
the only cos. to pay six-figure dividends. The greatest
duffer in the field was Spring Hill Leads, which,
on a called-up capital of £117,000 and an output
of over 31,0000 z., never paid a dividend. Taking a
group of 30 mines, many of which in the shallow
ground were pocket-handkerchief claims, yields
aggregated 1,595,0000 z., worth £6,532,000, ‘while
dividends were £2,430,000. On most of the gold
won royalties of from to 10 p.e. were paid to the
owners of the surface ground, who in that way bled
the cos. for nearly £400,000.
* * * *
Cornish mine 3 Daylesford (Vic.), is likely
to open anotner chapter in its mercurial history, the
Government having agreed to grant a new co. £2500
if it planks down £lOOO gradually by threepenny
calls. This effort should not mean ruin or hardship
to 1). McLeod, Peter Sutherland, George Buchanan,
W. J. Iloare, R. W. Shetland and R. W. Hinkson,
the new directors. A firm of machinery merchants
bought the lease a 30-head battery from the liquida-
tor of a London co., and sold it to the new crowd
for £3750. The proposal for the fresh trial is to
sink Bonnard’s shaft, r.ow 966 ft., another 200 ft. and
crosscut both ways. The first of the Cornish cos.
won 173,0000 z. from 650,000 tons of sJdwt. stone.
The second co. crushed 46,649 tons for 25,5360 z., or
about lOdwt. per ton. These records of the shallow
levels appear to justify further exploration at a
depth. But the Cornish is not an easy mine to pro-
spect, and the Board should look round for a mine
manager with a nose like Sam Bevy’s. He could
smell gold as easily as a cat can scent blue cod.
The last English co. failed to make the mine pay
because while Bevy was sniffing round for shoots of
gold the English directors were using their noses
in locating directors’ fees and smelling rats in an
over-boosted share market. Shares bought in Bavles-
ford at 6s. were sold in thousands in London at 18s.
Meekatharra (W.A.) produced 22,G610z.
more gold in 1913 than in 1912, and the last six
months’ returns foreshadow a further increase for
1914. There is now milling power equal to 110
stamps on the field, and more stamps are being
erected on the lngliston (late Commodore South)
and Macquarie leases. The Fenian and lngliston
Consols pay big monthly divs., and both are looking
well in the lower levels, lngliston Extended, which
has been up against dyke intrusions for years, is also
said to be in good condition, while the Queen of the
Hills financed b.v Lake \ iew and Oroya—is ex-
pected to make its first distribution at any time.
The Commodore and several others are making con-
stant small profits. The development of the field,
however, is slow because most of the shows are
privately owned, and holders are equipping and open-
ing up their claims out of profits. Nowhere in the
West can be found the same amount of confidence in
the future. The value of Meekatharra’s gold produc-
tion to date is a little under £2.500,000.
* * * *
Great Boulder’s 20th annual report has
come to hand, and, though not so attractive as some
of its pi cdecessors, it shows that the mill still has
a few years work ahead of it. The net value of the
gold won during 1913 was £559,830, the lowest for
several years, and the net profit was £293,800. Bivi-
dends, maintained on the 3s. per share basis,
absorbed £262,500, leaving (after allowing for other
disbursements) £lBBO to carry forward. Had the
same amount been allowed for depreciation as in
1912, the funds in hand would have been sufficient
to maintain the divs. at the rate mentioned. As
regards ore reserves, the latest estimate shows a little
shrinkage, the figures being 615,114 tons, averaging
14.57dwt., as compared with 652.916 tons, averaging
14.59dwt., at the end of the previous year. The
tonnage now in sight represents just over three years’
supply for the plant. While no fresh finds of import-
ance have been made, the ore in some of the bottom
main levels has improved so much that it is now
included in the reserves.' The quantity of ore ex-
posed- in Hamilton’s workings at the extreme north
end of the property has also been increased in the
process of stripping the lode. Although the best
geological opinion obtainable holds out little hope
that the co. will find anything of importance, it is
intended to bore to a depth of 350 ft. below the pre-
sent bottom of the mine at 2800 ft Strenuous efforts
were made b.v the management and Board during the
year to get hold of other properties in Which invest-
ment of available funds could be made ; but although
a number were examined, none were deemed good
enough to persevere with. A controlling interest has,
however, been acquired on option in an Alaskan mine,
which is declared to have good prospects. Manager
Hamilton will inspect it towards the end of this
year. The co. also has the M agd a 1 a - cum -Moonlight
show, at Stawell (Vic.) ; but, as previously hinted on
tins page, the option is likely to be turned down.
To the end of 1913 the value of gold won from the
Great Boulder, with cost of realisation chipped off,
was £8,985,131; the output year bv vear being as
follows:
1895 .. £107,023 1905 .. £541,754
1896 .. 223,705 1906 .. 551,951
1897 . . 336,844 1907 . . 561,450
1898 . . 344,123 1908 . . 575,765
1899 .. 331,541 1909 .. 588,257
1960 .. 430,783 1910 .. 582,365
1901 . . 4/7,854 1911 . . 564,474
1902 .. 514,760 1912 .. 568,312
1903 .. 561,792 1913 .. 559,833
1904 . . 560,545
Boulder Perseverance’s latest quarterly
report shows how, after an outlay of many hundreds
of thousands of pounds in development and plant,
ore worth under 20s. per ton can r.ow be profitably
mined and treated at Ivalgoorlie. Altogether, 61,156
tons were handled during the three months for
bullion valued at £60,660, or a shade over 19s. lOd.
per ton. Working costs averaged a decimal over
17s. 2d. The report adds that more than half of the
ore during the quarter assayed £1 and over per
ton and that the average was well up to that for
the whole of the mine. Ore reserves remain practi-
cally unaltered, except that broken stone shows a
further increase.
The option-hunting Golden Ridge (W.A.)
has decided to give the Bohemian lease at Marvel
Loch a trial. Some good crushing®, probably made
up of picked stone, were obtained from 'shallow
ground in this show, and after the local paper and
other optimists had whooped about its value a Mel-
bourne syndicate came along and took an option,
but deckled, after doing a bit of work, that it did
not want the property. Since then several have
nibbled, but no one has swallowed the bait.
According to manager Roberts the recent
rise in Associated Northerns (W.A.) was due to
someone spreading a false report about free gold
being struck in a prospecting shaft on the eo.’s
Victorious mine at Ora Banda. Roberts adds that
there is nothing very dazzling about the present
apnearance of the property, and that things will
remain at a standstill until the sulphide mill gets
on , \ n October- Like the district in which
is situated, the show may be safelv regarded as
one which has seen its best davs.
* * *■ * *
Two tributors working a narrow, short
shoot in Boulder No. 1, Kalgoorlie lease, have ob-
tained another good crushing and augmented the co.’s
tunas a little. So far no continuation of the vein
from which the gold is being got can be found in
any other tributors’ ground.
There is trouble at the Augusta (W.A.).
net urns have not come up to official expectations,
the manager has left, and no frantic rush is being
made to pick up shares. This is just about what
was predicted.
“Stannifer”; The North Queensland
opinion is that Lode Hill has seen its best days. The
tin-bearing country is only in a narrow strip running
up a spur of the mountain. The whole mountain does
not carry payable tin, as the southern public appears
to think. Xorthev put three weeks’ easy sluicing
through at 3d. per yard; the last five weeks’ work
cost probably Gd. This explains why the first
sluicing run gave a quick clean-up of 21 tons. This
ground was very clear of rocks. The tin in that
lump of easy ground was well known to many men
long before Xorthev took the show up. Elliott and
Seining, the old proprietors, did not work it because
it was below the level of their tail race. To obtain
a deeper tail race meant either buying out the
Roaring Meg Co., so that the race could run through
this co.’s lower ground, or else cutting a new race
through a very deep ridge and continuing it for a
distance of practically two miles right around the
Roaring Meg. As both these things meant big ex-
pense, Elliott and Scirving left the lump of good
ground and worked the higher ground around it.
Xorthev came along, prospected and bought the
show, cut the race through the deep ridge
and around the Roaring Meg, and then sluiced
the slice of good ground out. The “face” at
which he is working now is beginning to be rocky,
thus sending working costs up. A long way up the
ridge, right in front of the face, there outcrops a
very big rock bar. In the opinion of experienced
men this bar has got a lot to do with the tin.
A common belief is that above this bar the granite
will carry no tin. However, Northey has bored this
ground, and he says otherwise. Of course, there is
an enormous quantity of tin-bearing ground in sight
vet, but the opinion here is that the mine is by no
means the very big proposition it is cracked up to be.
So far, clean-ups of 40 and 50 tons are talked about,
but I think if they can continue to clean up 12 to
15 tons a month they will do very well.
* * * ♦
Some few months ago a Townsville syndi-
cate spent a few thousand pounds on a tin show on
Mount Windsor, Cooktown district (Queensland).
After having 16 men employed shooting away a
rock bar for a few months, and after the expensive
process of packing the tons of iron, tools, etc., up
the mountain range, the syndicate sent a manager to
take over the show and report on it. Borehole tests
said certain ground should go 21b. to 31b. to the
yard; but all the manager could get was a few
colors. There was then a sudden collapse. Wages
men are now all off, and work is stopped.
* * * *
Mount Morgan has one of its new furnaces
busy, and a second is ready. The change-over is
affecting the output. The mine is still suffering
from staff disorganisation, and it will be miraculous
if it gets the best work possible out, of the new
plant. If things don’t go really well, nobody need
be surprised (o find a big bear appear on ihe
market.
Mount Oxide Co, held a meeting in Sydney
early this week, to authorise liquidation and the
transfer of the assets to the English co. A sad tale
was told. There wouldn’t be any liquidation divi-
dend ; instead, a call of Is. 4d. per share was neces-
sary to lint things square “Show us why!” was the
natural demand. No accounts, audited or otherwise,
were produced; so the meeting was adjourned for
about a month to supply that deficiency. From all
one hears, it will be a good month’s work.
“Exile” : Three metals promise to become
of some imnortance to Australia, provided the ring
in Great Tower-street, London, E.C., allows Aus-
tralian miners to develop them. They are osmirid-
ium, nickel and molybdenite. Near the Pieman
River (Tas.) osmiridium is found in fair quantity,
and over 70 miners have been raising the ore.
Agents for London ore-buyers Used to pay £ll per
07.., but they have suddenly dropped to £7, at which
price it does not pay to produce. Osmiridium is
very rare, and as it occurs extensively in Tasmania,
that State might easily have monopolised the world’s
supply. The jobbers on the London Metal Exchange
have apparently decreed otherwise, and osmiridium
mining has been checked in Appleland. During
the past 10 months a Melbourne syndicate has been
mining nickel at North Dundas (Tas.) with encour-
aging results. In all, 2763 tons of ore have been
mined for £13,854, or £5 a ton. Out of this divs.
of £9600 have been paid. As there are only 32
shares of £lOO each in the co., the dividend for 10
months equals 300 p.c. Molybdenite occurs
in many places in almost every State. The present
price in Australia for 90 p.c. sulphide ore containing
80 p.c. of molybdenite is £5OO a ton. Below 80
p.c. the price per unit drops, especially if copper,
arsenic, bismuth and tungsten are present. The big
inmp in value is due to a demand for the metal in
France, where in a patent and secret process it is
used to prevent deterioration in cordite. Also, it is
used for hardening steel. Molybdenite chiefly occurs
in quartz veins. If handbreaking and picking can-
not be employed, it can be crushed and concentrated,
preferably by a flotation method. Prospectors should
keep their eyes open for it. So far, the brokers in
Great Tower-street, E.C., have not “crabbed” the
price, as they have of graphite, another valuable
mineral to be found all over Australia. Some years
ago the writer tried to introduce graphite from W A.
and Tas. to the ghouls of the London Metal Ex-
change, but, although the excellence of the plumbago
was admitted, no capital could be obtained to work
the deposits because the graphite ring wanted 99 p.c.
of the product for itself, and seemed inclined to
charge fees for permitting anyone to wait in the
passage and, metaphorically, crawl on hands and
knees into the “presence.”
* * * *
Dr. Herbert Basedow, the Adelaide geo-
logist, is president of the Petroleum Association,
formed in Melbourne to protect the interests of those
interested in the new oil industry, and to spread a
knowledge of petroleum mining amongst the public.
George Meudell is chairman of the council.
A certain amount of work has been done
recently on the auriferous dykes at Terawhiti, near
Wellington (M.L.), and various assay results have
been obtained Several dykes have been already
proved to exist, all of which carry gold, but the
question is what they will average if mined on a
respectable scale. L. O. Wilkinson, recently of
Stawell (Vic.), who was one of the syndicate that
had a protracted struggle with the Big Hill ore at
Stawell, has been asked to thoi’oughly sample and
test the property, and on his report future action
(or inaction) will depend. Terawhiti, it may be
mentioned, is at the extreme south of the North
Island of Maoriland, and is the spot whence the
bodies of the victims of the wrecked Union Co. s
Penguin were taken on -packhorses to the Makara-roud
and so to Wellington. It is a picturesque, wild, windy
locality, with enough mountains and wind in a few
square miles to supply several continents. The dykes
are in the hands of Wellington people, who have put
up a good deal of solid cash for the cause, in the hope
that Terawhiti may yet become a Waihi in the south.


CMRLES
dEIDSIEOfi
Vintage 1906
QlfflMW
riE PLUS ULTRA
m
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
TEN YEARS OLD.
A LETTER FROM BROKEN HILL,
SOCIAL LADIES WHO POSSESS WEAK NERVES
SHOULD READ AND REMEMBER THIS PROFES-
SIONAL OPINION.
“Mica Street, Broken Hill, 24/1/13.
“For months vast I have been pleased to notice
nurses from all parts of Australia expressing in the
press their sentiments regarding your valuably medi-
cine. I qualified for the profession forty yea s ago,
and keen'to it because I love to h°lp the sick. In
earlier life I was ASSOCIATED WITH SOME OF
ADELAIDE'S CLEVEREST SURGEONS, and nursed
their patients. Until twelve years ago I was nursing
in S. Austrlaia, but since then I have been nursing
at Broken Ilill. I have had lengthy experience and
can endorse every word other nurses have said about
Clements Tonic. In forty years I have had the care
of hundreds of poor sick people. I have been a close
observer of the effect of medicines, and years ago I
was satisfied Clements Tonic had no equal, and still
hold that opinion.
“(Signed) NURSE MENZIES.”
In order that this medicine may be ob-
tained, all Chemists and Stores sell it all
over all Australia. When travelling or
touring to any oversea parts it would be
best to include a few large bottles as a
necessary part of the travelling equipment.
COGNAC
OTA R D
Otard-Dupuy & Co. BRANDY
/
Etablis depuis 1795, dans le chateau de Cognac
ou est ne le roi FRANCOIS FI de France.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, July 6, 1914.
My Dear Arini, —
Polo at Kensington on Saturday brought
along the usual July muster of blue noses
and fuzzy-wuzzy coats. It is a bleak spot
for spectators on a wintry day, and some of
the motor crowd huddled in their machines
most of the afternoon. Said cars sent forth
the usual frog’s chorus “honk, honk!” when
their owners’ pals were thundering to a
goal. The Warren team made its first
appearance on the Kensington arena on the
opening day of the 1914 fight for the Lady
Dudley Cup. Narromine, captained by the
large G. C. Mack —who takes an outsize in
green diamonds on his capacious white jer-
sey—and helped by the skill and dash of
the two Webbs and 11. W. Stevenson, is
still nursing the trophy. The mighty men
from Warren made a fierce helter-skelter
for goals, and smote everything—the air, the
earth, the ball —on panting, furiously excited
ponies, while Narromine was a bit too swift,
all the time.
The Muswellbrook teams bring the usual
tribe of sporting Whites and Waites to
town. Mrs. Reg White in a huge light-
brown coat, twice the size of a small hearth-
rug, was inside the vice-regal enclosure the
other afternoon. This consists of a couple
of seats and the same amount of damp sod
under foot as the ordinary liege stamps
under his soles. The Strickland ladyship
was comfortably camped in her usual two-
horse chaise, with his Ex. hovering round
the family perch. The small Henrietta, like
her eldest sister, Treasure Mary, rode to the
fray, and hopped off a steady lookiug pony
with shaggy whiskers, in the cutest little
baby habit. Aide Wallis was in attendance,
with melancholy mien, heavily draped in a
great coat. Hon. Aide d’Apice was at the
stirrup to jump the vice-regal damsels on
and off their gee-gees. The corn-colored
locks of the eldest Miss Finn —turned up in
neat little rolls under a winter hat —were in
the same sub-royal patch of very wet grass.
On the lawn —I suppose one must call the
strip of grass between the unreserved seats
at the rail and the bare planks on which
Society books its polo roost, a lawn, for it
would be unkind to call it a bog—Mrs. Colin
Stephen’s fur coat was one of the sartorial
events, in the polar way, of Saturday’s
peltry. It was brown and striped, and
large, and voluminous, and warm enough to
make a sleeping bag for Penguin Villa at
the South Pole. Mrs. Tom Watson was
handsomely rugged in d curly black fur coat
with a marcel wave all over it. The tall
Rossitter maiden, in emerald green ; the
Norman Burdekins; the Frank Brennans;
Miss Keating, in a fine pepper-and-salt
tailor-made, warmed up with black fox ; and
pretty Marjory Smythe, Katers, Mrs. Alf
Turnbull, who is It in frocking; a lady with
a large velvet helmet or hat of the Boadicea
pattern, and stacks of Mutton lords and
ladies, shivered together at the opening polo
whack.
Miss Brookman, a good-looking English
girl now staying with the Macneill Simp-
sons, was one of the smartest black-garbed
damsels at Saturday’s polo. The coat and
skirt of the moment, when it is first un-
packed hereabouts, is a more extensive
arrangement than we dreamt of a few years
ago. The skirt has most of its trimming
behind, in flat tiers that look as if they’d
been gummed down. The coat is not
flounced, but it has a gathered appearance
at the back, and a little terrace of cloth
to top it off. The English damsel, an attract-
ive blonde, wore a tailored garment an-
swering to the above description, and it
knocked out anything of the kind that got
alongside it. The rival garment also ran,
but it hadn’t a show.
The Civil Ambulance Ball, which is one
of the tony affairs of this polo week, comes
off on Thursday, July 9. The Salon de Luxe
is the place. The Civil Ambulance Horse,
who is in reduced circumstances, is looking
for 5 per cent, of oats out of the profits of
this dance. Tickets are one guinea each.
For this sum thirsty souls can fill themselves
to the collar-stud with champagne, under the
supervision of a waiter.
The Westralian Newspaper magnate.
Wintlirop Haekett, shook the hand of George
Rex in the ancient premises of St. James’s
Palace. This levee occurred towards the
end of May. His small Majesty seems to
none the worse for this rush at his gloved
paw.
The Australian Field Artillery, a vigorous
limb of our militia gunnery department,
under Lieut.-Col. Bob Lenehan, is going to
have a party in Sargents’ rooms on July 17.
Dancing will take place on or about 8 p.m.
The A.F.A. officers’ mess secretary, N.
Alcorn Mclvell, is counting the acceptances
with a view to placing the right number of
knives and forks in position, and getting a
sufficiency of cruets. I believe that empires
have fallen, and brave men have died, and
cities have, been desolated, by reason of a
trouble which started over insufficient cruets.
Have you noticed that Mr. David Fell,
now in Britain, is still pursued by the title
“ex-M.L.A. for Lane Cove?” Every men-
tion of the Sydney man in the social news
of the day (in papers devoted to the globe-
trotting Australian), is followed by this
dubious glory—ex-M.L.A. Fancy being
described as an ex-journalist, or an ex-
draper ! And think of the man who was
mayor for one year, and was so overwhelm-
ingly popular that he was unanimously
elected ex-mayor next year!
The Lucas-Teeth are again in full swing
in their palatial humpy in London. Their
recent hop was bedizened with the diamonds
of wealthy merchants’ wives, and the
knightly orders of an assemblage that was
something Solid in the City.
The Friths, who have one of the most pic-
turesque homesteads in the Toowoomba
(Q.) district, have been motoring through
the South of England. They were booked
for the Thames Village in time to see the
Quality take its daily June airing in Rotten
Row. Speaking of the picturesque home-
stead, it may be explained that it is really
leafy. The Friths are of the tree-planting
species, as against the tree-hacking or alder-
manic or forest-demolishing species. The
arborasre anu shady avenue near their resi-
dence would drive the axe-brigade into a
frenzy of rage and enthusiasm. John Oli-
ver Frith, who has his wife and three sons
with him on the other, side, is likely to per-
sonally deal with any misguided person who
plays round his timber with a tomahawk
during his present jaunt in England.
At last the Moonlight Sonata ! After long
watching, after hearing it banged, beaten
and furiously flung on the piano, by all sizes
and shapes of visiting stars, we heard the
famous Beethoven Sonata in C sharp minor,
played by Harold Bauer. He is about the
first pianist—except Paderewski —who has
conveyed to a Sydney audience, during re-
cent years, an impression of something soft,
subtle, alluring—in fact, moonlight and not
a spring cleaning or a team of bullocks
rattling over stones —in the first movements
of the sonata, which has been done to death
by athletic persons with large and heavy
hands. Bauer’s season here is prolonged.
On Thursday evening he is to blossom in the
Concordia Hall, and at a Saturday matinee
(July 11) you can hear him bear the fruit
of melody and the foliage of harmony at our
town barn.
The British Association for the Advance-
ment of Science (isn’t this a long tail to
carry round the world —almost as long as
the British Israel Identification Associa-
tion?) is nearing this continent in three
battalions for the August conference. The
advance guard hopes to climb down the
Aseanius’ gangway at Fremantle on July
28. I think the learned Gen. Sec. Herdman,
D.Sc. (take science as read), F.R.S., is in
charge of the 60 wiseacres on the Blue
Funnel craft. The second batch will be
nicely browned when they clamber on to
Australian soil at Albany on August 5. and
the last turn-over of Science ought to be
putting on its spectacles to look at Adelaide
on August 8. There, they have a short
session of Concentrated Brain Food (for
Heaven’s sake don’t call it Fag!), and
improve the shining hour and the S. Aus-
tralian thirst for Information till about
the 12th. After that Science seizes its
umbrella and bustles off to repeat its efforts
for the benefit of Melbourne.
Sydney will fall over the Learned Inva-
sion from Britain on August 20, and fill it
up with food and listen to its orations for
about a week. In the meantime the N.S.W.
hon. treasurer, 11. G. Chapman, M.D., is
anxious to enrol as many new members at
the Royal Society’s House as he can draw
into the State Associate’s net. I under-
stand that it is quite necessary to know a
grasshopper by its Latin name or a black
beetle as something more definite than “nasty
little beast” in order to qualify for Associa-
tion membership. When you can step on a
cockroach in three languages you are really
only beginning to be eligible. Ladies who
desire to air their spring millinery at the
Science Congress can do so (to the secret
rage of other ladies who are more back-
ward. and only flee from a mouse in one
language) as members at the cost of a single
guinea. This gives them a nice little extra
dash to the front, and a perfect right to
stand up suddenly and object to the way
Sir Oliver Lodge parts his back hair.
Another of Australia’s brilliant sons,
Grafton Smith, M.D., M.A.. F.R.S., now
Professor of Anatomy at Manchester Uni.
(Eng.), came on ahead of the other scientific
Blue Socks. He can tell you the name of
every bone that ought to be in the dusty
body of Rameses the Great and Hophra and
Nimrod and such-like late lamenteds. Or
he could, if hard pressed, put his learned
forefinger on the exact place where an
Egyptian lady felt her corns long before
Israel came to the Nile country to buy
provender—in the days when it was un-
usually wet at Memphis, and you couldn’t
go out in the unbuilt city of Alexandria
without your cab being bogged.
Dr. Thacker, a Christchurch (M.L.)
enthusiast in the muddied football field (he
looks on at the big fights), has been over
here to see the recent Australian walloping
on Sydney Cricket Ground. He went back
to the Dominion with the more or less
maimed Britishers by Saturday’s boat, which
thoughtfully hung on to its hawser till the
game was over. The sporting Christchurch
medico is not a “retired gentleman” what-
ever that may be, but he’s sufficiently well
endowed with this world’s cash to be able
to take his ear away from his surgery ’phone
and follow up football to its last kick. The
British bumps and bruises will, therefore,
have friendly first aid always in sight, during
the forthcoming argument in M.L.
Soprano Lillian Mitchell, a pupil of
Andrew Black, will shortly move off this
continent for Europe, to continue the art
of vocal acrobatics in foreign tongues. A
farewell concert, at which the youthful
Lillian will sing her swan song, occurs on
July 6 in the Town Hall. Therefore it
eventuates before this reaches you, my
Arini.
Adelaide’s July contingent for Kosciusko’s
cold feet and frosty old skull include Dr.
Violet Plummer and her sister. W. G. T.
Goodman, general manager of the Holy City’s
Tramway Trust, is another S. Australian
visitor who is getting his hot-water bottle
packed up for the ski-carnival. The Ade-
laide Tramway Trust, by the way, is
a mild, non-octopus form of the combine
system. It is vested in trustees —I think
municipal. When the business was bought
from a private company, it was paid
for by a very notable cheque—about
£17,347.921,101,697 4s. 3d. Our financial
expert will know whether I’ve handed over
this trifle without inquiring for an extra
farthing or two that may lurk in the back-
ground. Dr. Shorney, from the same grape-
growing State, is another Kosciusko sport
who is putting away his stethoscope for a
July ski-run.
Captain Head, an English globe-trotter
who comes to this continent fairly often,
after periodic attacks on Maoriland’s frigid
Alns, is going to spend a few weeks
at the Kosciusko eyrie. He will put his
best foot foremost in this month’s snow
balling up there.
Solicitor Vindin, of this now rainy ham-
let, is going up aloft very soon—l mean to
Kosciusko, which is 7000-odd feet above
golosh level. Dr. Herbert Schlink, a Sydney
medico who takes snow sports seriously each
winter, is bound for the same hard freeze.
He likes to climb to the mountain top—so
that he can look over the other side, I sup-
pose. There are two sides to every case,
and also to every mountain. Dr. Oscar
Paul, another ski-enthusiast, is generally
panting for the same exertion, and the pair
go off together and admire the general re-
semblance of the scenery to a gigantic wad
of white cotton wool. Arthur Rickard and
his wife are going to try their luck in snow
boots on the thin end of the joyous aval-
anche about July 18.
Portia Geach’s exhibition of oils, water-
colors and etchings is still hanging against
the walls of Anthony Horderns Fine Art
Gallery. Most of the work is either impres-
sionist or mildly decorative. The Australian
artist has had some of her technique laid
on at the Royal Academy, but she has been
caught in the willy willy of the Paris mod-
ernist desire to throw paint in chunks on a
handy bit of canvas. Artist Portia is a
better draughtsman than colorist. Her two
most ambitious efforts, “The Procession of
the Hours,” a design for a mural decoration,
and a wall decoration design, “Mask
of Cupid,” after Spenser’s Faerie Queene,
show a vital sense of life and move-
ment in the figures. The Lion (in the path)
in the latter, however, is violently excluded
from the foregoing remark. He is a mis-
erable, anaemic-looking beast with the smile
of a beauty actor. Quite the best bit of
painting at the show is the fine study of a
Kaffir girl. Amongst the worst is “Manly
Carnival” (blobs of yellow, figures and other
things) ; “Full Moon” (more streaks of in-
flammatory orange, ferry-boats and water) ;
“Autumn” (something very hard and yellow
has hit a defenceless tree or two) ; and “Sea
Wall.” Two stout ladies are sitting on the
wall, whicli some person unknown appears
to be holding up on the other side.
The hauteur with which the frequent
official treats the humble but useful press
came to an unexnected climax in Suva a
few weeks ago. “Local society,” writes a
visitor to that sunbaked village, “is still
surprised and slightly hurt at the ‘uppish-
ness’ of mere pressmen. As you will remem-
ber, Governor Escott’s speech at a Council
of Chiefs was ignored by the, for once,
mutinous press. It was an amazing in-
stance of the Turning Worm.” The “high
official” who told the reporters that if there
happened to be any room left over when the
distinguished visitors were seated, they could
have it, has had his hair officially pulled over
the matter. The usually meek press put
away its writing pads and walked off. The
thrilling result —a Governor’s speech not
mentioned next day—has made the Govern-
ment House circle feel as if the Last Trump
might be omitted on the Day of Reckoning.
Mrs. Cecil Nevill Smith farewelled the
handsome Polish journalist, Miss Czay-
kowska, and Sydney’s Mrs. Yetta Rosen-
bloom, at the Australasian Pioneers’ Club
the other afternoon. These projected depar-
tures, as they say in the classics, are mov-
ing off this coast for Java on July 18 in the
Dutch boat. Houtman—named after some-
body who hasn’t lately been seen around.
From Java they’ll wander in a circuitous
track to the golden-haired Czaykowska’s
native Poland. In that distressful land of
defunct revolutions and long-haired musicians
you can hire domestic help at 2s. Gd. a week.
I don’t know whether the help “finds itself”
on this princely wage (some princes haven’t
been able, bv the way, to earn twopence a
week when they’re out of a billet), but you
get 20s. worth of chores for half a crown.
(N.B.—This is all right if you don’t happen
to do the chores.)
“Bunty Pulls the Strings” at the Royal
to enormous business. The crinoline area
is cleverly managed by Ella (“Bunty”)
Young, who sweetly bullies her family from
the commanding altitude of sft. nothing or
so. I notice that on her washing day she
is without that wired cage, and tucks up
her skirts with pins, and her hair into a
black velvet net, with a ferocious mesh, and
gets the family (father and brother) up to
breakfast, in quite a modern silhouette.
What a wonderful presence the crinoline
gives to even little Bunty! When Mrs.
Graham Moffatt. a fine figure of a woman at
any time, gets inside the 1860 fortification,
as the elderly Miss Dunlop, she moves across
the stage like a page in historv — extra large.
The kirk yard, with Elder Weelum Sprunt
temporarily at the collection-plate, while the
younger portion of the congregation sprint
over the stile —a small girl in a pork pie
hat. crinoline and other lingerie, is a chapter
of 1860 revelations —is worth going to see,
even if you have to splash through the wet
streets on shanks’ goloshes.
Leila Doubleday, the young Victorian
violinist who has been away for about eight
years, returns shortly to her native gum-
tree. She will tour hereabouts to show
us what she has been learning all this time
on the other side.
An Australian in the U.S. writes that
the hotel lift in the country where George
Washington didn’t tell a lie can send you
heavenwards at the speed of 650 ft. per
second. It not only can, but it docs, and it
fires you out at your 42nd floor, or whatever
it is, with the feeling (hat you are merely
a number, with no occupation and precious
little use for your feet. An Australian lift
of the wild and raging kind occasionally
bumps us upwards at the rate of about
250 ft. per moment. But it hasn’t so far to
travel as the Sheeargo streak of lift light-
ning, so the traveller arrives intact.
(N.B. —I forget whether the pace is really
per moment, pr per minute or per hour, but
that is a mere detail.)
An American millionaire bachelor (dear
creature!) has just been interviewed in
London re the advantages of being a bach-
lor. “We bachelors,” says his Dollars, “re-
pay handsomely the hospitality which is
showered on us. We are the salt of the
social earth.” This spread-eagle sentiment
has a grain or two of truth in its fiction.
The bachelor is a sought-after appendage to
any evening party, and knows his
worth. lie wanders from debutante bud
to Society matron, and steps across a ball-
room with a profound sense of his own im-
portance that is a perky challenge to the
Merely Married.
The small black Bunny toque is a mild
obsession for a week or two. It fits close
to the head, and shoots out two long rabbit’s
ears, in silk, of the same raven hue. As
queer millinery it; is only rivalled by the
same kind of pudding-basin shape which has
a long, thin dish-mop rising about 2ft. above
hair level. This sky-scraping trimming can
be made of anything that comes handy. Take
one feather duster, pluck off most of its
fluff, and gum on to its cane body a few
spangles, or a bit of red or yellow leather.
Fix firmly to the front of a velvet skull-
cap. and you get quite six guineas’ worth
of the latest style. Some day Woman will
bury her head in a large saucepan, wearing
the handle well up behind, and put half a
yard of fried bacon round the crown.
Everyone will consider it frightfully smart
—what!
The Nurses’ Ball, to provide cash towards
a building fund for the Nightingales’ resi-
dential club, comes off on August 26. The
Salon de Luxe will be the place. Mrs.
McMurray is president of a ball committee,
which means to scour our Best Suburbs for
fancy sets and other sartorial snares for the
occasion.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


‘CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At Tower of London.
£ "i / y /' .
s'
998
/
; //
" <* N
-*L S.AA-' ..
. 7
ss.-s
c&
mmkf
W&se?
C-orf.
ff
o>\
*\\ V M mf/pA. I
S'
--/
' c
%W/7
//
A
' ' J/ .
V
4
s'/
St
pH
<
u l^
"v
r
vt«s;
A?
■SO*
m
s?.
As
r
V
S’H
W i
8®?
/£
&
y^.
s
X
A A :■ Urn,
As
S'
SdSf?:^
I
Si:
§
£
TC
«s
MB
m
ss
'■ \
ws3pj
m
A
•*
V-
ft\\\
/..*■■• ,-j-vy
j
■ .;- .* .o’ r
A-
c*
■gSgasg
a?
w.^s
tgj/rf-
<- W
ggl|
1-i
*5555
: : ■
>v
&
K.
mm
’AsApA*'- 1
v^sk^TS
■
> r
sz
(My^-
J i £ U
Cobra,” ©6c Boot Polish
Ch under Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
With the Bear
Goes wand’rinor thro’
o>
Tower dungeons
c>
Wh ere, long syne,
Poor, lone prisoner
Used to pine.
Chunder and his
Friend the Bear
Plav at Block
j
And Headsman ther
So they joke
At olden crimes
In th ese brighter
COBRA times.


%
Farmer's “Victor” Suits
SPECIAL SALE OFFER
Farmer's “Victor” Readv-to-wear • Suits are smartly-designed
garments that never fail to please most critical dressers.
We are offering a Bargain Line of “Victor” Suits, made from
Rough Serge of Guaranteed Indigo Dye. The Coat is a two-button
model, with long roll, fronts, slightly shaped waist, centre seam and
vbnt. Vest has four pockets, medium opening. Trousers have
side and hip pockets, plain or cuff bottoms.
Usual Price, 55/- SALE PRICE,
And less the Bonus,
10 per cent, for Cash
Farmer’s Pay Carriage to any part of Australia.
PITT, MARKET & GEORGE STREETS.
DUNLOP
RUBBER
GOODS
ajsS
DUNLOP MOTOR
TYRES
C H/£
BIG MIL^,
DUNLOP TYRES
DUNLOP-KELLY
VEHICLE TYRES
APLEASU**
DUNLOP
MINING GOODS
P*' c ±*
fr
Send
jfor
Price List
DUNLOP
RUBBER HEELS
ENSURE EASY ,
SUPPORTABLE
Dunlop
RubberCo-
All States ©fl-Z
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Alelbourxe, July 6, 1914.
Aly Dear Yahlie. —
The cold, grey dawn of Sunday last dis-
covered a litter of toy American flags and
cracker remnants strewn over a large area
of Spring-street. On Saturday (which, of
course, was the Glorious FourtH) the newly-
formed Australian-American Club had had
a supper party at the Grand, and, between
band selections and toasts, a good deal had
been said about “the golden bonds between
two continents” —and much more to the same
effect. U.S. Consul Alagelssen was a guest
of honor at the celebration. The Club is
intended for Americans resident in Alelbourne
and all good Australians who have made the
pilgrimage to Alecea —I mean to the Beef
Trust. The outsider who has merely bought
a peanut is not eligible for membership.
The first day of the V.R.C. Grand National
Aleeting, at Flemington on Saturday, was
watched by a heavily-furred crowd. The
few daring ones who tried to exhibit new
tailorings without the encumbering skins
suffered keenly from the Flemington wind,
and I suppose the doctor’s motor has been
waiting at a few front doors ever since.
The G.-G. looked as if the bleak weather
had chilled his slight official enthusiasm for
the sport of viceroys. He was well muffled
in a big heather-and-haggis overcoat, but
still did not look delighted. Her Ex. sup-
ported the little lace hat that is nearest rela-
tion to the bonnet. The black cloth tailor-
ings that went with the hatbon were out-
lined with white pipings. Little Doris
Blackwood looked saucy in a Napoleonic tile
without the tricolor. Airs, Leslie Stuart,
with a headgear of great price showing above
her furs, hung over the Dust Cloud animal
in the birdcage murmuring sweet nothings.
(Please understand that Mrs. Stuart was
uttering the sweet nothings; the horse had
nothing to say.) The burden of Airs.
Stuart’s song was “We’ve never got
within coo-ee of a Grand National winning-
post before.” But her sister-in-law, in
funereal black cloth, retorted “He might
have run a little nearer to-day, anyhow!”
Which seemed reasonable, seeing that Dust
Cloud had merely ambled home fourth.
Frank Aladden’s girl was facially obscured
with ’possum furs, but showed silk grey
ankles and shoes to the world. Airs. Bindley
personally conducted a Pinschof sister, who
-tarred in a black and white pierrette hat.
The sheepish legion (for names tear out the
Western District section of the directory)
were nresent to a woman in tailor-mades with
slit skirts.
The ice rink was rushed during the last
cold snap. Airs. Simon Fraser, jun. (she used
to be “Billy” Clegg), came down from her
husband’s sheep station on the Alurray just
to have another turn at her beloved pastime.
Airs. Charlie Griffiths, back from skating in
foreign places, showed some special figures;
but she couldn’t cut as much ice as the
most expert Alelbourne girls. Airs. Ambrose
Pratt, who slithers gracefully, showed off a
dainty turban that defied criticism and care-
fully refrained from falling on it.
The Glaciarium is thrilled with emotion of
various brands these chilly afternoons. A
Russian prince is occasionally seen on the
premises, and his footwork is described on
.all sides as “simply lovely.” He has a
titled aide in constant attendance, and the
way people stare at the pair of them is re-
markable. The two are bachelors, and the
skating girls are putting their best limbs
forward —though not necessarily for inspec-
tion. Several more or less beautiful maidens
have already fallen at or near the princely
feet —but it was the ice every time, not
mere sentiment. You couldn’t tell the visi-
tors from ordinary well-dressed citizens by
their clothes, which are well-brushed and
have the creases in the usual places. The
prince tried to smoke a large black cigar the
first time he appeared; but an attendant,
who may have taken it for a bomb, de-
manded the thing just when he had got it
fairly reeking, and bore it away with an ex-
planatory wave of the hand at the “No
Smoking” notice. You will see by this how
little it takes to thrill the poor females who
pay for the privilege of cutting grooves in the
floor of the frosty place.
An important military and civil dance is
trumpeted for Tuesday, July 14, in the Col-
ilingwood Town Hall. The warriors of the
Sixty-Third are determined to make it a suc-
cess, and who shall gainsay them?
The quaint old war-kettle Cerberus is at
present at Williamstown, and the officers are
scattering invitations for a dance on Friday.
.July 31. The floor of the Naval Depot
gymnasium is to be waxed for the occasion,
so the lid of the kettle will not creak under
the dancers’ flying feet.
A cable tells of a launch spree on the
Thames, and the drowning of Baronet Denis
Anson in the course of the vinous pranks.
Young Anson was in the very early twenties
and had held the title left by his uncle only
for two or three months. His claim to in-
terest people at this end lay in the fact that
Ihe was the only son of F. A. Anson, who
squatted at Peraki, near Akaroa (M.L.), in
the ’SO’s. F. A. Anson was an irascible wool-
gatherer who gave his very candid opinion to
all and sundry on each of the occa-
sions when the stork presented him with a
fine daughter, and left the longed-for heir
till last.
The other Saturday afternoon the Lachlan
Mackinnon matron invited all the Best
babies, including the Frederick Blackwood
pair, to play in her distinguished garden
with the illustrious Mackinnon youngsters.
A clown and a conjurer kept them from tear-
ing up the place by the roots and throwing it
over the fence, when they were not deeply
absorbed in the simple games of extreme
youth.
Airs. Charles Alills entertained the local
nobility at the Alexandra (Gas Co.) Club
on Tuesday afternoon, to farewell daughter
Jean Price, who sailed by the Ulysses, four
days later, to join her ex-sailor hub in East
Africa, which, so I am told, is a rather un-
healthy place. (Wait till I get my breath!
The doctor says I’ll die of one of these long
sentences some day. He said to me only
yesterday. “Avoid running up stairs and
long sentences, or you won’t live to pay my
bill I” J It was a very fine affair, decorated
with pink roses and cheered by a string band
playing light music, but vaguely overshad-
owed by the wirelessed scorn and loathing of
lurking club members who hadn’t been in-
vited, or had been overlooked, or were sus-
pected of being dead and buried. The
hostess, who looked almost vice-regal in black
taffetas, and might have been mourning for
the members who hadn’t been asked, held on
tightly to a bundle of violets. She had to
hold on to something, for the outside clubites
were distinctly depressing. I don’t quite know
how these things are arranged; but if any
man-club tried to work on the same extraor-
dinary system it would quickly burst. In
fact, I am doubtful if a club of gibbering
apes could endure the strain.
The theatrical carnival in aid of the hos-
pitals, which duly raged on uie Alelbourne
Cricket Ground, made the expected heap of
money. Amusement-seekers had to pay
their half-crown entrance fee outside the
high, bricked amphitheatre before they knew
wnat they were letting themselves in for.
The stands were certainly packed—but
mostly with discontented faces. A bleak
wind took the edge off enthusiasm and anti-
cipation—and there had to be a great deal
of anticipation on account of the scarcity of
events. Donkey races happened at long
intervals; but'the intervals were long and
a donkey race only goes a short way. Pre-
sently hope died of cold feet and interest
expired of malnutrition. Below the stands
a rabble of theatricals posed for all they
were worth. Part of the dreary afternoon
was made worse by an American voice .pro-
claiming uselessly, “Niblo will sell sweets
at two o’clock!” or “Niblo will auction a
hug at two-thirty!” And the only things
the wretched listeners wanted were hot pota-
toes and footwarmers. Grace Palotta auc-
tioned little bunches of flowers, while Essie
Perrin-Kerouse and sister-in-law May
Ivcrouse held up the stream of expectant
arrivals with appeal boxes at the turnstiles.
The only real enthusiasm seemed to be round
the doors of the underground tea rooms. The
crowd round the outer doors looked like a
bargain morning crush. Airs. Henry Corn-
ish and a large batch of Innes-Noad girls
put: up an excellent scrimmage on the out-
skirts and triumphantly disappeared into
the steamy interior. Jack Cannot wore his
bride on his arm and trotted round selling
acid drops. But even that didn’t save the
situation from an amusement point of view.
He couldn’t have done it with a dray of acid
drops.
Mary Grant Bruce, who reached literary
eminence after putting in time on tire Inky
Way here, was married last week to a name-
sake, Alajah George Bruce, whom she met
in Ireland. The lady said “I will” in a
travelling dress and grey furs, and the
united Bruces then left for a honeymoon
tour of the Cabbage Garden. A couple of
days before the wedding the bride was given
a luncheon by Melbourne women-writers,
who proved that feminine journalism is not
necessarily a last refuge for domestic in-
capables, by cooking an elaborate meal for
themselves. The bride announced that her
present to the bridegroom was to be a mop,
which she expects him to use, so that her
flow of ink shall not be interfered with.
The bridegroom looks very young to be a
major; but I suppose some catch it earlier
than others. The pair dispensed with as
much of the usual fuss as they dared,
though a crowd of relatives and friends
filled the little church while the show was
on. Airs. Bruce (sister-in-law) and Airs.
Alex. Pearson, of Berwick, hovered round,
likewise Airs. Staughton and the Bland Holts.
Addie Hine, the young Australian dancer
who did so well abroad, has renounced the
boards in favor of the domestic hearth—or
Possibly it is a radiator in a fiat. She has
been the wife of a rich young man for some
considerable time now. and has brought her
husband out to visit Australia. Their chmf-
est treasure is a very new baby who has Ids
(her?) own suite of attendants. Addie had
her twenty-first birthday supper party in
London not so long ago. The Melbourne
Br.ockhoffs, who were amongst those present,
say that it was a gallant spread.
Fan Dango-Mackay is going to England
with her husband to see how well Elsie is
doing on the London boards.
Mrs. Ambrose Pratt lately gave a fare-
well party to the Freddie Shipman lady, at
the Oriental Hotel. Mrs. Roger Thompson
and Mrs. Croker and her daughters brought
a lovely dress apiece to the party. There
were two or three steps leading down to the
reception-room, and the theatricals who at-
tended made the most of them. Some_ of the
impromptu “entrances” were really impres-
sive. Fan Dango-Mackay, muffled in splen-
did furs, tripped down with a little dancer's
run. Mrs. Beatrice Holloway-Greig descended
demurely in black cloth and smart white
spats. Mrs. Plumer gave one a fleeting im-
pression of sparkling black eyes, before the
chattering crowd obscured her. Mrs. Bland
Holt advertised her perennial youthfulness
by wearing a lovely rose-pink silk cloak, a
black picture-hat, and gold buckles on high-
heeled shoes. Mrs. Freddie said “How-
d’ye-do” and “Good-bye” under blue hat-
feathers that matched . her eyes, and the
hostess was all there in black and white
garments and a sweetly appropriate hat.
About four years ago a Hobart girl named
Lucie Atkins went away to England with
Melba to study singing. Hobart found £3T>O
by concert and subscription, and Melba did the
rest in her usual generous fashion. Now Miss
Atkins has returned as Mrs. Frank Purchas,
and she and her husband have announced
two Hobart concerts on Butt-Rumford lines.
The husband, who is an Australian and a
Melba nephew, has a fine stage presence
and is reported to have an exceptional voice.
There is a small Purchas daughter in the
background; she is four months old and. I
believe, can take A in alt, or words to that
effect, without any trouble. The Mayoress
of Hobart organised a big reception for the
returned Lucie, and also arranged a special
welcome-home morning tea in conjunction
with the original benefit committee.
Randolph Bedford’s daughter Vera sang
some of Wagner’s “Ring” music in a rich
contralto voice, at the Conservatorium con-
cert’ of last, week; and one of her own com-
positions (a setting of some Victor Daley
verses) was carolled by Elsa Waxmau.
Hugh Paterson’s clever daughter Betty also
made a triumphal dfflmt as a singer. Betty
can toss up as to whether she backs her
violin or her voice as a means to the de-
sired career. She has a touch of genius both
ways, and, moreover, is a healthy youngster
with a commendable liking for hard work.
Pretty Ivy Philips (she gets quite angry
if you put two l’s in her name), daughter of
J. C. Philips, of Adelaide, has come over
here for a long half-holiday, so to speak.
Incidentally she will give Melbourne an
opportunity to sample a contralto at a series
of Auditorium concerts. The first song-burst
is timed for the 14th.
Young Louis Foulet, who is frankly
French, and announces himself on the invita-
tion card as “Monsieur” —is exhibiting his
paintings at the Besant Hall, in the Collins-
street Centreway. The show was due to
open on Wednesday, and if it confirms the
allegations of Rumor it will be at least as
interesting as some of the shows that come
and go like moving pictures in a row at the
Athemeum Gallery.
From “Rosna,” in London: —
T. Brailsford Robertson, who is a D.Sc. of Ade-
laide University, and is married to Jennie, daughter
of Prof. Stirling, of the same Slowly City, has had
a kiddie’s book published. “The Universe and the
Mayonnaise” is an attractive-looking salad of scien-
tific facts with a dressing of infant fiction. Dr.
Robertson, who has reached the advanced age of
30, is Professor of Physiology in the University of
California, and he has already committed a number
of monographs on various aspects of biology, as well
as a learned volume on “The Phvsical Chemistry of
the Proteins,” or something dreadful like that.
Adelaide for culture again!
Alice Bryant, the Sydney-side organist, is flatting
in London with her artist brother, Charles, who
had a successful show last week. The talented girl
has pounded the cumbrous instrument at the Albert
Hall and Queen’s Hall Sunday concerts, besides giv
ing recitals here and there.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The open season for charity meetings has begun.
This grand old British sport was seen at its lies
this week in connection both with the Queen's
Home and the Victoria Leag'ue. Lady Galway, who
knows the game from A to Z, rode a fine race in the
former event, and her wing three-quarter play in
the Victoria League affair was much admired. Her
speeches were commendably short —a great point of
merit in these contests. Both she and the Governor
were seen in action on Saturday when, with the skill
of apparent veterans, they turned the first key in
the door of the new wing at Minda. The gate-
money must have amounted to a goodly sum.
Amongst other sporting characters present I noted
the Bishoo Wilsons, the J. C. Vercos, the Charles
Goodes, Mr. Herbert Phillipps, Miss Gladys Thomas
and the C. T. Hargraves. A musical “At Home” is
threatened for Wednesday next in the Walkerville
Hall, the proceeds of which are to go to Minda.
Take it for all in all, the place may be said to be in
luck.
Tattersall’s Races occurred on Monday—a happen-
ing which was inevitable, barring the arrival e
earthquake, invasion, the Act of God, or weatbe
sufficiently rotten to disgust a young and health.'
duck. Nothing much happened—that is to say, no
one stiffened a horse or outed a jockey, or threw a
brick at the Governor. Did you ever notice, my
dear, that there is some sort of mysterious relation
between dullness and a life of virtue which extends
even to communities?
Regardless of the Sydney small-pox scare, the fol-
lowing left us this week for the polluted area: The
Edward Hawkers, Mrs. Backhouse and Mrs. Belt, the
Arthur Rymills and Miss McMillan, and Mrs. Hillam
and Miss Barbara South. In just such a dauntless
spirit did St. Charles Borromeo go forth among the
afflicted inhabitants of Milan three, centuries ago.
Where our townsfolk have a slight bulge on St.
Charles (who, if you remember, fell a victim to his
courageous philanthropy) is in the fact that they are
all vaccinated. If any of them dies and is canon-
ised, he or she will probably be the first accredited
saint with vaccination' marks, to enter Paradise.
Which reminds me that Peter Dawson and his con
cert co. have also left us. They took with them
Miss Hilda Felstead and Miss Carlien Jurs, both of
whom are booked for the co.’s nine weeks’ tour of
the Eastern States.
A cable from England announces the death of
Mrs. F. C. Driffield, whose home was in South Aus-
tralia for most of her life. She was born in ’3l,
and came here with her father, the late Joseph
McMinn, as a child. She leaves one daughter, who
is in England, and five sons.
The will of the late Dr. Glynn has been lodged for
probate, and the bulk of the £27,000 which he left
goes to relatives, except for about £lOOO worth of
legacies to Roman Catholic institutions.
Miss Bessie Davidson left by the French mailboat
on Tuesday on a two or three months’ visit to her
people here. For the last four years she has been
in Paris studying. She is going back, via India,
in the spring.
Paul Dufault and co. were given morning tea at
the Queen Adelaide Club by Mrs. Brewster Jones
QU Thursday. Most of the guests were members of
the council” of the Adelaide Chamber Music Society,
Chief Justice Way, who has been more or less an
invalid for some time, left by Thursday’s express
for Sydney. A wire mentions that he had his arm
utated by Dl . McCormick on Monday, at the
latter’s private hospital. When last heard of he
was doing as well as could be expected,
Mr. J. W. Jones, secretary to the Commissioner
of Public Works, who has just retired under the
Septuagenarians Act, joined the Civil Service in the
g urve y Department in ’65. He is a tremendous
authority on Australian aborigines and their cus-
toms and dialects—especially the tribes of his own
State. , .. „ ~, ~
Mrs. Jack Lee and her brother, Mr. I rank Moulden,
i e ft by Friday’s express for Kosciusko. Dr. and
Mrs Burston 'and Miss Pankhurst were passengers
by the same train.
The sudden death of Michael Monaghan, Crimean
veteran in Adelaide, at 80, recalls a characteristic
trifle in .the local career of Sir Day Bosanquet, recent
South Aus. Governor. In 1856 Queen Victoria had given
tbg young soldier a s iik handkerchief of her own
embroidering for his gallantry before Sebastopol, and
when he came out to Adelaide, soon after, Govern-
ment House borrowed it to show some guests—and
lost it! For 50 years he went lamenting its loss.
taSdSTS? £ ££s “
b]m ano ther, which was formally presented to the
old hoy—just in time, for a fortnight later he died,
A simple act of kindness, but it took half a century
for anybody to think of it. When you mourn 50
years for a lost handkerchief there isn t much of
* our life left to you.
' ' Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


/
&
'
m.
y
c
i£k3s
■
ffswts
V
vj
A
0
:
* W
<Hfe
W
r
/
fe
<
4
'T"
K
M
w.
- *K
S
.M
«
fc
ill
m
SfeSSSi
'
H
• -,
-<
r J
Jfa>«
3ft
aft
' •
Vd
iSSk.
•nrordl
i
a
WATSONS N°IO
for
j ' •**>.
cine y Add re. ss 3 60'Ken f' 3*
»
tplemeA ybwndtm. scon\no


■o
I \
Mirrors
and
Glass
Ware
Always
brtgh;
and dearth
after
Bon Ami.)
Bon Ami
UYunontt*
The operation takes just one work-
ing minute and leaves the mirror
brilliant.
Kit
i i
For
Kitchen
Ware
The
Bon Ami
way is
the
easiest
way.
Bon Ami
$
Brilliantly polish up your pots, ket-
tles and pans with Bon Ami—it's
perfect.
[2
“.Esculapius”: In ancient Greece they used to
erect temples over natural springs and give to each
a titular diety. We moderns are no less appreciative
of the healthful virtues of a mineral water—only our
methods differ somewhat. For instance, up at the
famous; Helidon Spring, the water is secured just as
it bubbles up from the earth, and hermetically sealed
until the process of aeration and bottling is com-
plete. You don’t need a Greek fineness of palate to
appreciate the cool charm of Helidon Spa—it has
the same delicious refreshingness to Billjim as to the
Earl of Hopetoun. As a blender with wines and
spirits, too, it gives just that added snap and
sparkle that counts so much in the sum of pleasant-
ness. You’ll be wise to always make it a practice to
“Figaro”: Read a par. here the other week about
Nature planting the giant stinging nettle in NQ
but close beside it the tree whose leaves serve as an
antidote to its sting. This provision of Nature is
in no way unique, for, just as she curses us with
indigestion so she blesses us with Helidon Spa
After dining out you’ll have no next morning head-
ache if you take a bottle of “Helidon” before turning
in—this delicious mineral water is Nature’s gift to
those who have dined not wisely but too well. A single
glass will dissolve the undigested food and at the
same time ensure a perfect night’s rest. Quite apart
from its health aspect, “Helidon” greatly enhances
the flavor of wines and spirits—so truly the way of
wisdom is always to
SPLIT IT WITH
HE LI D ON.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Moana”: One thing that Maoriland has
imported that promises to do well is the chamois.
A tew from Switzerland were liberated a year or
two ago on Mount Cook, and the other day a further
pair, a present from the Emperor of Austria, was
let loose in the same region. During the past season
these active little animals were seen fairly frequently
in the vicinity of the big hill by different parties,
and a couple of guides had a close view of a herd
of 15. The chamois invariably sticks to high, snow-
infested country, so it can’t do any harm,, which
is more than can be said for its occasionally in-
furiated relative, the red deer. This latter beast
hangs out in the more or less settled districts of the
two islands, and eats houses, fences, crops and sun-
dries.
WHEN GREEK MEETS GREEK.
GINGER: “My old father owns a boshter
pickle factory."
SALLY: "Eat's nothin'. Mine owns f.ve."
GINGER: “Gam! That's a ready!”
SALLY: “Well, I thort we wos tellni readies.”
“G.V.W.’s” news from the front: I forget
how many bullets it takes to account tor a soldier in
a present-day scrap, but a chimney-stack at the
Orepuki Shale Works (M.L.) took 200 before it
gnawed the dust. Awhile ago, a streak of lightning-
collided with it, tore a portion off and left the rest
in a tottery condition. People living in the vicinity
felt uncomfortable, until a man with a .303 rifle
stalked it and started plugging away at the base.
After 200 shots he brought it down with a
crash like a month’s coal rattling down the shoot
into the bunkers of Sheol.
Lagani-Namo”: Three hundred or so
glass 11 piopperl up on sticks in the sea some 60
no es south of Port Moresby (Papuan), constitute the
ullage of Huta. The folk are noted from one
end of thus Territory to the other for their swim-
ming- The children learn to do it before they are
taught to walk, and spend most of their time in the
water. Instead of fighting with waddies on shore,
in the event of a difference of opinion, the Huta
fashion is for the disputants to come to a decision
in the water. I happened along one Sunday morn-
ing years ago in the midst of some wild excitement.
The whole village seemed to have assembled on its
rickety outrigger canoes to watch two vouths
lattling in the waves. The principals had a clear
space of about 20ft. to manoeuvre in. They did this
>.v leg action, holding the hands free for a holt.
Suddenly one flung himself at the other, and thev
went under. We could see them writhing together
m 'I 6 " 4 ' ° ne minute P9 ss ed, and just when I
thought they were down to stay one fellow drove
his knee into the other’s diaphragm. There was a
gush of bubbles, and with a final “Take that! and
that, and that!” the victor shot gasping to the
surface. Then relatives dived and brought the
other party airwards. Blood trickled from his nose
and ears, and his eyes had the gone-out look of a
defunct fish. Women took charge of operations
then, holding him topside down, applying- hot stones
to his feet, and massaging him energetically with
warmed coeoanut oil. The crowd went about its
business, and ignored this phase of the perform-
ance. After watching the unrewarded efforts of the
dusky masseuses for 15min. or so, 1 ventured the
opinion that the boy’s cake was dough, but was re-
buked with: “Huta people he savvy this fashion
belong water too much ; by and bye this-feller-boy
he orright.” And I learned later that he was. He
got into all that excitement through being caught
chewing betel-nut with the other fellow’s fiancee by
moonlight. Maybe she was worth it.
1.11.11. : I’m against wilful slaughter of
birds, as a rule, but 1 honestly admit I have no
compunction about murdering a few black magpies
or molly-hawks. These must not be confounded
with the black and white magpie of the sleek coat
and organ-toned voice. For downright cheek and
mischief I’ll back them against any bird in the
bush; and, to make matters worse, they hunt in
flocks. I put in a few acres of wheat lately at a
time when I had not seen a molly-hawk since thev
ate the last cob of my corn. The day after I sowed
one came along (he was the scout), and an army
has been infesting my pocket-handkerchief farm
ever since. They helped themselves to the grain
before it came up, and now what is up is being
further elevated by the pests, as they pull the green
sprout out to get at the milky grain. I have a dog
trained to chase them, but he will never be very
effective until I buy him an aeroplane, as they sim-
ply hop up into a handy tree. We shot about two
'° Z n n , r We mn’ I,nshot are plentiful
than before. The only consolation is that they make
a fair pot of soup—not turtle, mind you, but eatable
ana welcome.
“Te I’ana”: A purple-green elephant is a
plain trifle compared with the responsibility of tak-
ing care of a few thousand flying foxes. This is the
Tor °i o A e t°t the n igh Chiefs in ‘he Sacred Isle of
Tonga. At the village of Kolavai there is a horde
of cursing, gibbering bats, that are, in a manner of
rfS; P~ple. A bro™ „ob,™
“are not sW ? ! Ut ° f them > but a commoner
daie not shoot one lest the vermin rise up and flit
to quarters new. According to tradition if sue
an event happens there will be
disaster in the land. On two
occasions within the last few years
the bats departed owing to some
cause or another, and the popu-
lace sat around in sackcloth and
mourned, what time the high
chief s services were requisitioned
to bid the wanderers return. This
devil dodger hastened to the de-
serted trees, prepared some kava,
and whilst chanting, the Tongan
equivalent of “Father, dear
father, come home to me now,”
threw the muddy-looking mixture
on the ground. In two hours the
advance guard of the flying foxes
were flapping their foul wings and
fighting for the pick of residential
sites. And the people killed the
fatted swine, and scraped the yams,
while the high chief had the equiv-
alent of a whisky and soda to ease the strain of the
occasion.
“Kodak”: Gwendolyn, the golden-haired
boarding-house general, or Belinda or Merely Mary
Anne, had one great fault. In her daily campaigns
against dust and cockroaches she worked like a
whole company of sappers and miners; but when
meal-time approached, and it was time to retreat
from the bedrooms, she would gallop away without
tidying up the field of operations. Later on the
hirer of one of the rooms would arrive home in
the half-darkness and fall heavily over a forgotten
bucket, or be smacked murderously on the chest by
the handle of a broom which resented being trodden
on. But Gwendolyn managed to hang on to the
job till the night the chronic dyspeptic dragged him-
self upstairs as usual and cast himself on "his bed.
That instant a scarlet shriek of agony cleft the
evening stillness, and, as the congregation of board-
ers rose up with their hair on end, a voice full of
tears wailed: “ Oli-h, why did she leave the fender
on the bed?” He had fallen on it with the middle
of his indigestion, and the result was terrible.
A BRIGHT IDEA.
LONG-SUFFERING PHILANTHROPIST: "Look here, you're a hopeless case, Mangles. The
drink has got you completely down.”
MANGLES: "True, sir, true. But you am t tried a pick-me-up on me yet, sir.”
“Te Pana” (from Tonga) : The Mormon
has his eye on this bit of coral, and the soul of Jione-
Tonga finds 3'et another pilot that promises smooth
sailing. There are a number of “elders” living under
the palms, mostly young chaps, keen as blades about,-
their work, and prepared to fight all the devils ami
bad whisky in the Friendlies. Education is a big
factor in their campaign: they get at the people
through well-managed schools, with English as' a
medium of instruction. Most of them live a la
Tonga and develop appetites for yam and cocoanut
milk. There is no salary attached to their job; and
any man who comes to Tonga and feeds on native
kai kai, and perspires, and doesn’t drink, and just
exists that Brown Brother may miss a future grilling,
is a hero, to my way of thinking. As far as I
know these gentlemen from Utah do not preach
polygamy. Neither does any other white man here-
abouts, for that matter. MGle singular is very nice,
but Mele plural—no, thank you.
* * * *
“Vigilans”: “Saccharose” (B. 11/G/’l4)
is on the right track re the climate of North Aus-
tralia. It is so much bunkum to say white men
cannot work there, or that it is not suitable for
long residence. I know the North well, having spent
many years in North Queensland, Kimberley and
the Northern Territory. The people who have taken
up their residence and work thereabouts are a hardy
lot, and so are their children. In Westralia mining
is carried on by white men who have been in the
tropical north for a decade and over. In East
Kimberley the old. reside! ts are warriors as hard as
S. P. Mackay, of horse fame, was born in
West Kimberley. The Edgars, of Derby, have been
there a lifetime. In Wyndham white people live
and thrive. As regards climate, Cairns is enervat-
ing enough for anything, being level with the sea,
but it is only a day’s journey to Herberton, where
the people dress in heavy tweed suits. The climate
of the interior of Australia is the healthiest in the
world. On the tablelands anywhere the air is pure
and life-giving. There are men now living in the
interior of Australia who went there as incurables.
They suffered from chest complaints, asthma, bronchi-
tis and the like; but the pure atmosphere cured
them. The trouble is get-at-ableness. When the
transcontinental railway opens up the interior of
this continent, my tip is .you will see sanatoriums
at Alice Springs ,or thereabouts and on the Barkly
tableland and- Hall’s ('reek, AncJ the wealthy, indo-
lent croakers, sick with, ailments due to lack of any
exercise but drawing dividends, will be the most
prolific and astonished customers.
“Te Pana" lon his own responsibility) :
• The kiwi of Maori land has a reputation for the size
of the egg that his missus deposits under the lee of
the residential log. It's a pretty hit of fruit and
out of all proportion to the girth of the bird. How-
ever, the wingless freak is under the table compared
: with the Malau bird of Niuafoou, a lonely bit of
INSULTING.
VISITOR (to pal, who is patient in lunatic
asylum): “Glad to hear you're better ,
Sam. S'pose you'll be coming back to yer
job soon, eh?"
SAM: “ 'S’trewth! Leave a big 'ouse wiv a
bonza garden like this to go back to a dirty
lirrle job tike mine! D’you think I'm
ratty?”
coral between Samoa and Fiji. This sea-fowl, a
tern, lays an egg- so much larger than itself that’the
adult could nest comfortably in half of it and use
the remaining portion for a nursery. Like its cousin
the mutton-bird of Stewart Island and Bass Strait!
it favors a tunnel in the earth as a lying-in hospital!
(Continued on pane 24. )
A NEW SAMARITAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Th’ wos jest er cart by th’ side or th’ road in th’
dust,
An th blisterin’ sun wos strong.
A gal wos ther’, an’ I thinks ter rneself at fust
’Jher’ wosn’t anythin’ wrong.
She wos sittin’ alone by th’ cart on er bit of er
board,
An’ givin’ a swish at th' flies.
But I gits up close—an’ it gives me a shock —mv
Gawd,
on d oughter ’a' seen ’er eyes!
They wos lookin’ straight in front of 'er, into ’Ell,
An’ ’er face was as w’ite as chork. *
So I gammons I’m tired like, an’ needin’ a spell—
An’ I tries ter make ’er tork.
But she wouldn’ say much, though I questions ’er
hup er lot,
Jest answers with “Yus’’ an’ “No.’’
Bon’ know ef she reely ’eard wot 1 sed or not—
i5ut some’ow 1 couldn’ go.
lhen sumthin’ moves in th’ cart, an’ it sings out
‘Dad !”
An the ’urt in /er e}’es wos cruel.
An’ I kind o’ knows wot wos up, an’ I feels dam’
bad—
She wos dinin’ horf bitter gruel,
lhen she goes ter th’ cart, an’ she lifts hout er bit
if er kid,
An’ she ’olds it hup to ’er tight.
An’ I didn’t know wot ter do. I’ll be damned ’f I
did!
Let, I wos stumped orl right.
Then she hopens ’er mouth, an’ she lets out an ’cap
er talk ;
An’ she »ez she ’ad married Jim—
’K’d been mostly drunk—an’ th’ kid couldn’ heven
walk—•
She d ’ad ter put up with ’im.
Now ’e d sneaked th’ ’orse, an’ orl ’er th’ money
they got—■
An ed chucked ’em an’ cleared, j er see.
So we torked ’f it hout—an’ she sez “she might’s
well’s not!’’
An’ now she’s livin' with me.
VICTORIA.
E. M. H.


We have received from the Board of Directors of the
REGENT PALACE HOTEL,
PICCADILLY CIRCUS, LONDON,
The following order, dated 6th February, 1914.
“ Messrs . BEALE & COMPANY LTD., Sydney, Australia.
“ The object of this letter to-day is that we wish you to make, on account of the Strand Hotel Co. Ltd., to
be used in the Regent Palace Hotel, now in course of erection at Piccadilly Circus:
“ One full-sized Concert Grand Piano, in burr walnut, in the latest model, with just sufficient exterior
ornamentation to be dignified. We think it unnecessary to give you any instructions as to qualit\,
etcetera, as you will know how to supply an article of the best, and you can put on the inside of the lid of
the piano (if you care to) ‘ Made expressly for the Regent Palace Hotel, London, by Beale 6- Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, N.S. W., Australia .' 11
“If the contractors keep to their time, the Regent Palace Hotel will be open by October next. It will be
the largest hotel, we think we may say, in Europe, having between one thousand and eleven. hundred bedrooms.
If you can possibly do it, will you let us have the piano here for the opening of the House; if not, please let us
know in due course, so that an arrangement can be made for the temporary hire of one.
THE order came to us entirely unsolicited and unexpected. There can be no doubt
that it is meant as a compliment to Australia, for the SI RAND 1 ALACL
HOTEL, filled from the day of its opening, has had a great many guests from
this Hemisphere. It is to be expected that its immense populaiity will be even exceeded
by that of the colossal caravanserai, the REGEN I PALACE 1101 EL, built upon
an “island” site at Piccadilly Circus, therefore light, safe and airy. Anything under the
able management of the Directors of J. LYONS & CO. is sure to win the confidence
and approval of the public, for their enterprises are the most conspicuous success of modern
times in the World’s metropolis. Their one inflexible rule has always been: “Everything of
the verv best and absolutely genuine. No tips are allowed, no sccict commissions, all
above-board and in favor of the public. And so in leturn they get public favoi.
Beale & Co. Ltd. have repeatedly supplied Grand and Upright Pianos to these splendid
institutions. The amusing part is that we have been virulently attacked by the German
trade Press for thus invading Europe with high-priced pianos, because they reckon to
hold a mortgage over the piano-supply of Great Britain and of Austiaha in paiticulai.
Beale Pianos are made by us only, sold under our own name only, and when they are offered without our name be
sure it is a fraud.
20,000 BEALE PIANOS have been made by us in Australia.
Where easy terms are required we issue a free life policy, so that in case of death the instrument becomes the property
of the customer without any further payment, thus removing anxiety m time of trouble.
The Beale Factories are the largest of their kind in the British Empire, and are under the direction of one of the
world’s greatest experts, Major George D. Rose.
From Factory to Family.
Please let us send you a catalogue and circulars, no matter where you live. Easiest terms and best conditions
in the trade.
Kalophones, Gramophones, Records, Violins, Musical Instruments of all kinds and Sheet Music.
CATALOGUES FREE BY POST.
BEALE & COMPANY LIMITED
Head Office and Factories: TRAFALGAR, NELSON and COLLINS STREETS, ANNAN DALE, N.S.W.
City Showrooms: 136a-136b LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
George Street, Bathurst
70 Hunter Street, Newcastle
Yass Street, Young
Wagga
Lismore
Orange
131 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.
Argent Street, Broken Hill
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
Townsville
Rockhampton
Maryborough
Cairns
Mackay
839 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
273 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vi


PHILLIPS ORMONDE & CO.. Consult-
ing Engineers, Patent and Trade Mark
Attorneys, 17 Queen Street (Lombard
Buildings), Melbourne. Established 1888.
810-SHOWMEN!
"THERE'S only one BEST Biograph.- We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.“ Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jordan's, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
IF BILIOUS OR CONSTIPATED TAKE
“CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.”
Harmless “fruit” laxative
cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels without
griping or discomfort.
An acid stomach, clogged with fermenting,
ill-digested food, means that the liver is not
doing its duty. Nature provided ripe fruit
juices' to keep the liver up to its work.
“California Syrup of Figs” is a deliciously
refreshing fruit laxative, which is always in
'season. You can keep it at hand, and it
will be an unfailing friend whenever the
tongue is coated, bowels sluggish, breath
fold, thi-oat dry or sore, stomach full of
wind, and head hot and aching. You can
take a dose whenever it is needed, as safely
as you could eat fresh fruit. In a short
while you will feel the benefit. The bowels
will be gently relieved, and the stomach
cleansed and sweetened as the undigested
food is-moved on and got rid of. The tongue
will grow clean again and the head will be
cooled and cleared. There is no mistaking
the beneficial effects of “California Syrup
of Figs.” Directions are with it for adults
and children of all ages. This pleasant
laxative is good for all, and. cannot, possibly
harm even the most delicate, but you must
ask for “California Syrup of Figs,” and look
for the name and trade mark of the Cali-
fornia Fig Syrup Co. All leading chemists
sell “California Syrup of Figs.” 1/11 and
1/9 per bottle.
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul.
Pattinson & Co. Cadies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature. Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
BRAND
STUHRi
STUHR’S
CAVIARE
FILLETED ANCHOVIES
(in Brine).
ANCHOVY PASTE.
Sold by all High-Class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., Hamburg.
Indents through European Exporters only.
“Vagabond”: It is rather as
“Q. 1.8.” says (B. 2/4/’l4), that Outback Australia
has never fallen back on one or other of the forms
of sun-dried meat, but I must confess that tlie
“biltong” it has been my luck to. sample has not
been us tempting as “(J.1.8.” describes. Any that
I’ve wrestled with has had all the toughness of
well-cured boot leather, and about ;is much taste as
you could extract from india-rubber. “Q.1.8.’5”
description of the “hard, grey crust* (tni the outside”
fits my memory of biltong, but my memory goes
deeper and carries tlie bard grey crust right down to
the middle of the strip and out the other side. Ail
the same, it has its good points, the , chief being
that it will keep indefinitely, doesn’t take any great
harm from being mixed up in the swag with loose
tobacco, tea or flour, emerges none the • worse from
a swim in tlie river, and scorns tlie ice-chest or
meat-safe as a vanity and a superfluity. Of the
various kinds of dried meats I’d recommend “pem-
mican.” It is made with dried, pounded or grated
lean meat, with dried fruit or seeds -'and currants
mixed, and the whole crammed into a clean skin or
canvas bag. Then you pour in hot rendered fat, as much
as the meat will absorb, and tie up tightly. Mix
with water, or better, flour and water, arid boil, or,
at a pinch, oat it raw.
“Reka” : .V solution of tin* problem of tlio
mysterious “bush sickness” that attacks cattle arid
sheep turned out on the land near; Rotorua is one
of the achievements of the Maorihmd; Agricultural
Department. Horses are not affected;, but sheep arid
cattle waste away with a form of pernicious a uremia
in a land of abundance. As about;'.a million acres
of land were affected, the Government ;\vas urged to
turn its agricultural eye on the matter, .and experi-
ments confirmed the theory of experts; that; this land,
heavily timbered in part and apparently”able on the
clearings to support large docks arid Kerris, lacked
some constituent necessary to keep tlie animals alive.
Iron has been traced as the missing, ingfedieiit, arid
on areas treated with a preparation of iron the
sheep and cow now feed and wax fat. . Beyond tlie
boundary the ironless cows still fade slowly away.
Calves taken off the affected soil arid hand-feil with
phosphate of iron consume tlie stuff” hungrily, which
leaves no doubt in the minds of tlie experts that
iron is the one. tiling in life they really yearn
after. The craving is so bad that ‘some covVs
would gladly eat a boiler or the cheek of a com-
mercial traveller.
“Crez” : For weeks we sat on our stools in
the champion mean man’s office, shivering. Each
morning, as he filtered into the roomy we approached
him with a request for a fire; hut he never seemed
to be able to place reliance in his* own sensations
(ours did not count) for after consulting tlie ther-
mometer and calling one of us to verity his state-
ment, he would read out a degree that our chattering
teeth gave the lie to. AVe were beginning to lose
faith in Fahrenheit, when the depth's to which nig-
gardliness will descend were exposed. The old boy
used to place his lighted cigar, his.one dissipation,
under the bull).
A DELICATE INNUENDO.
SERIOUS P ERSON: “Do yon think perfection is
ever actually attained in this life?"
YOUNG LADY: “ Yes, some people become per-
fect bores."
“Moana” : Mauri land is beginning to cast
anxious glances at the exceedingly muherous Hindu
who is settling down, with every appearance of per-
manency, in various parts of the North Island. In
the country traversed by , the main' 1 trunk railway
line the white man is already finding his job becom-
ing much less frequent as a result of the employers’
policy of preference to cheapness. Thirteen Indians
were working recently on a job in the King Country,
and the individual tucker- bill was averaging 12s. a
week. Premier Massey reckons that/' something will
have to be done. Somebody has been saying that
about one or other of Maoriland’s family of pests
ever since they began to smudge the:?landscape, but
I forgot who first mentioned it. Probably it was
Captain Cook or Admiral Columbus, 'jfe
DIPLOMACY.
NERVOUS BRIDEGROOM: “Now, look here, cabby, I don't want you to tell anybody that
we're a honeymoon couple."
CARRY: “Just leave that ter me, sir. I'll tell 'em yon're not married at all."
“Oimai”: .Judge Murray, the Australian
Administrator in Papua, has shifted his point of view
with regard to the working out of Papua’s destiny.
'When lie first went to the country it was enjoying
the Native First policy of Administrator Barton, and
Murray found tlie whites laboring under very harsh
and. irksome restrictions. The new man abolished
many of these, and the anti-native crowd promptly,
came to the conclusion that everything was about to
come their way. But personal experience of the
native and. his would-be exploiters swung Murray off
his first course and drove him to give more protection
again to Brown Brother; whereupon many of those
who acclaimed the Governor while his attitude suited
them, proceeded to put the hoot in, arid have been
doing it ever since. Murray, like other big men, has
not been afraid to own up when lie was wrong, and
tin’s lias not commended him to the “stand-patters,”
who, like most fools, pride themselves on “consist-
ency.” To this must be added sectarian rancor,
which it is astonishing to find in a place like Papua.
He has been badly served by some of his subor-
dinates, too, and these not of tlie junior ranks. Every
Papuan official carries the Governor’s billet in his
mind’s eye, and some of them have done everything
short of actual assassination to work the job their
way. The service needs thorough organisation, and
not till Murray is allowed to get busy with an
axe among, some of his lieutenant's will the tangle of
Papuan affairs be straightened out.
* *»-..* *
“TV I’ana”: Tlie people who talk about
the employment of Pacific Island girls to solve the
Mary Jane problem should excuse their ignorance.
I’ve had maids on the paysheet in Rarotonga, Tahiti
and the Friendlies, and the collective abilities of the
crowd are not worth tuppence.
They clean the knives on their
valas, wash up in cold water, and
can’t even boil seggs. As for cooking
joints, or sweets, or stews, a bank
clerk could make a better mess
of the business. To give her one
pat on tlie hack, however, let
me mention that she can iron
creases in your white clothes.
The par excellence Island “maid - ’
is a boy. He is willing that you
should teach him to distinguish
between a chop and a blanc-
mange, or a scrubbing-brush and
a potato-peeler. Once having settled it in his dusky
head, the light way of doing a thing is harder to
tear from him than the income-tax from Sandy
McPherson.
* * * *
“Zamia”: The tick, which no doubt adds
to the cost of our beef, proves very destructive on
all animals except the gohanna. The cat, if ho gets
a tick in his side, will turn double somersaults, and
if not attended to lie will succumb to the attentions
of the parasite. Ditto the dog. But the tough-
skinned gphanna stands as many ticks as can cluster
on him, and goes about his job. as if nothing was
wrong. I never yet saw a gohanna without a supply
on his body.
“Engine”: I’m. an engine-driver, and do
my own firing. This week I'm on night shift, and
on Tuesday evening I found it v impossible to remain
in tlie engine room'because of flying ants, which
arrived in millions, , At last, as the plant wouldn't
run itself, I went in, switched off tile lights, and
opened the furnace, door, whereupon the ants in
countless numbers rushed straight into the Are, and
continued to do so for six hours, keeping steam up
all the time to blowing-off point. The total saving
in firewood was 1 ton 2jcwt. • The only added fuel
NEED FOR ADJUSTMENT.
“Yes, Daniel! The 'ole thing is hitps.de
down, There's free edjncation, there's free
liburys, ’nd Freetrad'e , free barves—
every blanky thing a man don’t want is
free. ”
was two leaves of The Bulletin, which, having been
digested, were wrapped around my crib. These
ants burn well, make a nice ; clean fire, with very
little clinker and less ash, rind are practically smoke-
less. I don’t know how they, would do for marine
work, but for a land boiler I couldn’t desire any-
thing better. They are also self-stoking.
COLD AT NIGHT
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Young Mrs. Jones turned in lief! bed
J'o nudge her hubby in the side,
Then in his ear a word she said—
And Jones in haste ran out and cried:
“Here, harness up, you immigrant,
And fetch the doctor from the town.
The wife’s took bad. Say that, we want
Him quick as he can hurry down.”
In sleepy haste rose young John .Bull,
And pulled his boots upon life corns,
Then in the dark lie tried to pull
The winkers over Moolv’s horns.
In dire distress he dashed inside:
“O Mr. .Tones, 1 wonder if
You’ll manage, for I can’t,” lie cried ;
“The horse’s ears are frozen stiff !”
VICTORIA.
RIAH.
Matty Phelan’s Pub.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“’ HVT ’ did'n’ yell hear iv Matty Phelan
I ’n’ the fire he-liad ?” said Crogan.
“'Twas here in Ryan's Run Matty
med the bit iv money invisted subsequent in
a thrifle iv a pub in Ballarat b’yant he do
be callin’ The Sligo Inn. Matty knows
pitaties troo ’n’ troo, bein’ acquaint wid
thini frim childhood up ; but he have shinall
abilities t" dthraw min to his barr. 'll’ to
kape tliim there wid pleasin’ discoorse, him
bein’ natural iv a moorose 'n' passionate
turrn iv mind, ’n’ handy wid the impties—
would crack a dacent good customer c-rost the
neck wid a stone gin soon as look, lie would
that. In this way ’n’ be the dispinsatioiis iv
the good God, Matty Phelan's Sligo Inn is
losin’ great money on him day be day ; ’n’
Matty that bitter ’twas more'u yer life's
worrth t’ go be the barr, 'n' ask courtyis fer
a wee taste whisky wid the sixpince to your
hand.
"Thin the fire bruck out iii Conant’s
smithy, next on yer lift goin’ in, ’n’ got a
fair holt before ’twas noticed at all. ivliin
Phelan is intorruied, rimimberm’ the insur-
ance he have, he gits out oil his own verandy,
’n’ he whirls the hat iv him, 'n' ‘Hooroo:
sez he. 'tiooroo:' he sez. Thin out he goes
'n’ gets jiggin’ ’n’ friskin' round the blazin’
lire you'u think it a gireat day fer Ireland.
But Matty don’t find the flames talcin' holt
iv Ins premises, ’n’ his coiintinance is
marrked wid grave concarn ’ic disparrage-
mints. So in he goes t’ the Sligo Inn, n’
takin' a firestick trim his lcitchin, he sets a
light t’ thim pants iv his liotil adjacent.
"Be this time there’s a crowd collect, ’n’
there's sloshins iv watlier ’n’ brealcin’s ’n’
enterin's. They trows Conant’s furniture
out. et the back, ’n’ they trows Cork’s goods,
’n’ chattels out et the front,,’n’ they run t’
tin* rescue if Phelan's hotel. But ’tis not in
the mind iv Phelan t’ have his hotel rescued
at all; an’ first man t’ come wid a buckit gets
it from Phelan good ’n’ harrd, ’n’ Matty
sloshes the crowd wid the contints iv the
pail. ‘Off me licenst primises ■!’ sez he. ‘Out
iv me liotil!’ sez he. ‘Would yeh ruin me
inloirely wid your rescuin’s; ’n’ me insured,
fully ’n' a thrifle over fer contingencies ?’ sez
he. ‘Will we not rescue the stock, Phelan,
man?’ sez Dwyer, seizin’ up a shtnall kig iv
rum in his nrrunis. ‘Auny person or persons
found savin’ (lie shmallest thrifle will be
persecute wid the utmost rigor iv the law,’
sez Phelan.
But be this a second contingent have
bruck in et the back, ’n’ put out Phelan’s
fire. lie cried wid the rage iv him, and
druv out that < rowd wid a handy small
er< baar. ’n’ sit tire t’ his liotil waiist more.
But already is (lie lire brigade tearin’ down
on tin* Sligo Inn, wid horses, ’n’ buckets, ’n’
axes, ’n’ the Divil’s own conthrivances. Be
this time Matty Phelan is a desprit man.
’n’ whin a fireman, ez han’some a wan ez
yid see in a procession, conies tearin’ in.
Mat meets him wid a bottle ’n’ splinters his,
head up most pitiful. ‘l'll not have it.’ sez
Phelan. ‘Get you back.’ he sez, "r I'll not !
be responsible!’ Wid that lie tossed some
more bottles among ’em, ’n’ then grabbed his;
gun from over the barr. ’n’ tuck his stand in !
the dure. ‘Would yeh rob a iioor man iv his
honest insurance?’ sez he. ‘Stan’ back,’ he
sez. ‘l’m on me legal rights,’ sez lie.
“But now the hose is goin'. .’n’ wan in-
genyus little fireman puts the stream on
Phelan, ’n’ knocks him backwards wid the
flow iv wether. Phelan is up agin, dubbin’
his gun, ’n’ gaspin’. Wanst more the stream
hits him, ’n’.clubs him over on the back ivi
his neck, wid bis heels above-his head, ’n’f
the fireman races in t’ the Sligo. Soon he’s,
up ’n’ doin’ wid the gun. ‘Would yeh spile
a good. God-fearin’ man’s bit iv insurance
on him?’ sez he : ’ii’ he bids fair fer blood,
’n’ slaughter. But: a big fireman seizes holt
iv Matty, ’n’ puts the come-liither on him.
‘Shut up yer idiot head.’ sez he. ‘Don’t yeh
get yer insurance fer destruction be watlier!'
‘What’s that?’ cries Phelan. ‘Yell paid in-
surance jist the same fer damage be watlier.;
yeh blind bat-head.’ sez the fireman. Phelan;
got u)). Phelan was a calm man ’n’ col-’
lected. ‘I beg yer parrdon. sor,’ he sez most;
gintelmanl.v ’n’ decorous. ‘Will yeh step into
me parlor?’ sez lie. Wid that lie tears out.,
’n’ he finds another fireman wid a running
hose, ’n’ gives him a pressin’ ’n’ hoshpitable;
invite into the barr. ‘The house is burrnin';
like all Hell.’ sez he. Then he begs another
into the sittin’-room. ’n’ another into the;
dinin’ aparrtment wid his tale iv great
burrnin’s, ’n’ presently there’s five hoses in,
the Sligo Inn blowin’ the roof off ’n’ fair;
•washin’ Phelan’s licensed nrimises off its legs-
thou eh no burrnin’ is visible annywhere.
“Phelan got most iv his insurance, ’n’ is;
now a solid man doin’ well wid a fine lump;
iv pitatv counthry out Phinn’s Creek way.
’n\ mind you. be have great faith in watlier.
have Misther Phelan.”
EDDYSON.


mi
wm
:- ! V' ■•
.
m
■ : ~
.
r . :. . , , ( iS&ji
r' wi t it
-
'■■•; *
r
as
H
a-".
<2&*
• ■* < *
?»«>■•• -
, : 7 ;
Ms.
m
«<*
§8
m
mm
■ - •/
■
i
filSi
ifiMii
MSSI
jSirSiK
*W»
iM
‘wmmm
mi
<**
ivurnsmA
■
.*••• .
188 111
|sS* &«*«
MS§*H
*
- : ,Jk
111
mi
warn
W
Hn
*****
•-
ea
*PC%#
■
; V
ImJW > j
■ ■•. ■
■ii . :;..
ms
MW
am l
mm
t'*i
! my:i
m
■■■■
m£
'v‘' ' V
■
. • - ••• • * .J&m
,
:
mmm
A// S/&/ms j©
■v. • .. .
mm&m-
t>


For Ladies’ Shirt Blouses
and Nig'htdr esses.
For Children’s Frocks.
For Gentlemen’s Shirts
and Pyjamas.
The cosiness and comfort of “Viyella” garments are due to the splendid warmth-giving
qualities of this fine material. With this essential it combines lightness, softness (the ten-
derest skin can wear it) and good weal.
sM
w
In addition, the dainty colorings in which “Viyella” is made, and the
fact that it is non-shrinking, make its superiority very evident.
Be sure you get “Viyella,” and to be sure you are getting it look for the
name on the selvedge. The “Viyella” label is a guarantee of the
good qualities of the material.
“Viyella” is obtainable from all high-class drapers and storekeepers, or
information as to the nearest retailer will be sent on application to —
I. & R. Morley,
56 Market Street, Sydney; or
250 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Viyella
For
Man, Woman & Child
L
Business, Bobbery, etc.
According to latest figures the cost of the new
gravitation yards at North Melbourne will exceed the
estimate bv £40,000 ; similar yards at Tottenham
bv £30,000, and the Caulfield line duplication works
bv £49,000. Some £3OOO of this latter sum was
incurred because the alleged engineers built platforms
on curves with too short a radius for the newest cal-
lages, though satisfactory enough for the old dog-
boxes.” Two of these platforms had to be demolished
as soon as finished and constructed with wider curves.
Presently someone will we wanting to know why the
railways—don’t pay.
The motorist has his number taken ofiener m
Melbourne nowadays than he wots of. The .“sports” of
the city, frozen off “two-Up” by the officious conduct of
,T. Hop, have started wagering odd or even on the
last numeral of each car that passes. This gumble
requires neither kip, coins nor skill. All that can be
seen bv a casual John Hop is the passing of money,
as of a man naying a debt or lending another the
price of a pint. Its simplicity is as delightful as its
security is comforting.
'»* « *
At Auckland (M.L.) a man who added milk to his
cans of water was recently convicted (thank the
hord!). Two samples of the mixture showed 23
and 24 per cent, of pump substance. The magis-
trate said it was theft just as much as trading off a
forged bank-note. But he didn’t prescribe the usual
treatment for forging and littering—hard labor. All
the same, he called on the thief who had utteied
forged milk to pass over £2O and Costs, and oideied
that the conviction of the said impenitent malefactor
his name, occupation, place of business, nature of
the offence and penalty—should be advertised in two
daily papers.
“Hiki”: A movement is on foot in Canterbury
(M.L.) amongst the cockies to form some sort of
an association that will do away with the middle-
man and his profits. One Ensor, chairman of the
Canterbury branch of the Farmers’ Union, a power-
ful political and commercial bod}', has sent a
message out to the world that, in his belief, all
middlemen are parasites and hairy cannibals. Some
30 vears ago another set of cowspankers and wool
cultivators thought similarly to Ensor and they
started a Farmers’ Co-operative Association. This
show has grown and developed until now its rami-
fications bulge in all directions. It has also
degenerated (in the eyes of the cocky) into an
ordinary business concern, charging the same retail
price for the goods it sells as any other store. This
the cocky can’t understand, despite the fact that
most of ' him holds shares in the concern (which
pays 15 per cent, and waters its stock). The
present generation of cocky is searching itself
for a proiect which will land the producer and
consumer into direct contact. A conference .has
taken place between the promoters of the desired
scheme and some reus, of the workers’ unions, but
nothing excepting the exposition of the obvious has
so far been produced. And that’s far less satisfying
than, say, beer and eel pie.
* * * *
“Reka” : Maoriland was housing unawares for years
some celebrated stuff in the Ward-Plomer silver-plate
recently shipped to London and sold at Christie s.
The Maoriland owner, Judge Ward, inherited it from
a Ward who married into the Plomer <or
Plumer) family, and on his death last August the
metal went Londonwards to a nephew. Captain
Ward, who turned it into cash somewhat hastily.
Apart from its intrinsic value (a James I. silver-gilt
cup presented in 1620 to John Plomer brought
£4500, the highest price ever given at Christies,
the place of high prices, for'one lot), the plate was
interesting as having belonged to the Plomers made
famous by Charles Lamb. His “Blakesmoor m
H ” was the Plomer dower-house of Blakesware,
and the fierce Mrs. Battle was herself a descendant
of the Plomers. Lamb’s grandmother, Mrs. Field,
was housekeeper at Blakesware, and he, as a boy,
wandered all over the old treasure house. He docs
not mention the Plomer silver-plate, which has
gained tremendously in value since his day, but in
“Mrs. Battle” he speaks of some of the family
treasures, and in “Blakesmoor” he writes of the
tapestries and paintings of his “old great house, the
demolition of which hurt him so keenly. The plate,
which had been for 50 years in Maoriland, brought a
total of £lO,OOO at the sale.
* * * *
“Josh” : Melbourne’s gas monopoly has been calling
for applications —“accompanied by not less than three
testimonials” —for two positions in its engineering
branch. To discourage anything below the highest
proficiency, it is intimated that “candidates must
be graduates of Melbourne or other University, and
be fully qualified engineers.” The salary offered is
£l5O per annum, which is rather less than the Gas
Co.’s plumbers receive. This shows what a fine thing
it is to spend seven years or so training to be a
professional gentleman.
The original Tory outcry against the institution
of the Commonwealth Bank, on the ground that it
was a Labor Government device for injuring Private
Enterprise and driving capital out of the country,
has now changed to a reasonable criticism of its
constitution. According to the Argus of to-day the
institution needs only a board of directors to make
it safe and sound, and with this modified criticism
nobody will disagree. Under a one-man system of
management, the national concern might in the
future, with another than the present manager in
charge, be guilty of “a nolicy of inflation in sub-
servience to nolitical ends.” The manager ap-
pointed bv the Labor Ministry is safe, sound and
altogether" satisfactory, the Argus admits, but the
Tory journal foresees the possibility of a less satis-
factory appointment being made by a different Min-
istry Hence the need for a supervising board. An
inflat'ional nominee of Fusion, for instance, would he
a calamitous manager. In short, the only mistake
made by the Labor party in its good work of estab-
lishing a national bank was in omitting to provide
a safeguard against muddle in the future, under
autocrat appointed by the friends of the Argus.
“Hamer”: The eussedness of the hen has upset
many people. Towards the end of last yeal t
Sydney egg market, which had been held Up at g
prices by a careful handling of the output, suddenly
collapsed. Speculators had assisted the market
(which is mostly a place were people assemble tor tne
purpose of rooking the public) bv storing awaj
surplus fruit in the hope of a joyful resurrectioi
Christmas; but the degraded fowl, trampling al
decent principles underfoot, put in so much overtime
that when all the storage was full and speculators
were becoming scared at the size of their stock., s 1
plies kept pouring in. The market could not be he (
up any longer ; and all of a sudden the price slumpe
until it went as low as Bd. a dozen. Prices did n
begin to recover until near Easter time; but tne.i
have been high ever since. Recently, however, the
hen has been getting in more unkind work. tne
market manipulators in Sydney held on as long as
possible, but a week or two ago thev had to let go,
and newlaid eggs fell from about 2s. 3d. a dozen
(wholesale) to Is. 6d„ with a prospect of further re-
ductions. The thing was a blessing to the or dinar,'
citizen, who was able to chip his morning shell \titn-
out feeling that he had swallowed threepence And got
little benefit by it ; but to speculators in the business
it was ruinous.
* * * *
“Vigilans”: The question of protecting the Aus-
tralian banana against the subsidised importation
from Fiji is a live one. As yet, the value of the
banana plant is not known in Australia. It is grown
only for the fruit. But in some tropical countries
the banana is to millions of people what wheat is to
the European, rice to the Chinese, rye flour to the
Russian ; it is their staff of life. The banana is one
of the most striking illustrations of tropical exuber-
ance. A plant which in a southern climate would re-
quire many years to gain strength and size is, in the
hot latitudes, the product of 10 or 12 months. No
plant has so many various and useful qualities. For
instance, banana flour is becoming extensively used.
For invalids and children it is superior to arrowroot,
in consequence of its nourishing qualities. In
Jamaica the natives roast the fruit in the wood ashes
and use it as a substitute for damper. They
also boil it and use it as a potato. 1< rench
chefs fry it in batter and serve it up as an ordinary
hot vegetable. Next to the fruit itself the
value is in the fibre, which is made into rope,
and known commercially as manila ‘ hemp. it is
not hemp, but the fibre of a species of banana which
luxuriates wonderfully in the Philippines. The export
trade is large, mostly to the United States, California
and Britain. Vinegar is also obtained from it by a
very simple process. The stem is filled with an
abundant pith, containing a large percentage of starch.
Fiji is North Queensland’s great competitor m the
banana trade, but whereas Queensland is becoming a
white man’s country, Fiji is a land of cheap slavery.
A duty of 3s. per cental is required to enable the
industry to prosper in Queensland. The Daintree,
Mossman, .Mulgrave, Russell and Tully rivers are al
banana districts. The deep, black soil is unsurpassed
in Australia. The chief bone of contention is the
value of the fruit. The Fijian distributers say the
Queensland fruit is inferior, and that the demand is
greater for the nigger-grown article. This is quite
wrong; the Queensland-grown fruit is as good as
the other, and it does not suffer from scale, whereas
I know that two recent shiploads of fruit from the
islands had to be fumigated on account of scale.
* * * *
“5.E.0.” : Surely it is time sanitary engineers and
town-planners gave a thought to the vacuum-air
system of town scavenging? With a system Of
powerful exhausting plants at suitable points and the
town reticulated with air pipes, the bulk of the
waste could he removed at a fraction of the present
cost. By means of intercepting furnaces the waste
already practically desiccated by being whirled along
in a current of air could be swiftly burnt and re-
duced to an innocuous dust and clinker. Consider-
ing that for wet sewage 20 to 25 tons of water have
to be brought miles to carry one ton of waste away,
the air-vacuum system, if only in
of water, would be an economy. )\ ith
street scavenging and the present system a
ously sweeping up and carting rubbish long d
tanees, the exhaust system, supplemented by
side valves, would, save cartage costs and do array
With the awful “tips.” ;
“G.V.W.”: An oily suggestion from the Vacuum
Oil Co. (Standard Oil Trust) came before the vvei
lington (ML.) Chamber of Commerce at a lecent
mefting. The co. had prepared a petitioni for
presentation to the Railway Minister sn iHts
reduction in the freight charges motoi spmts
and being of a retiring nature asked the Chamber
of Commerce magnates to it. •
had done snorting they lifted the lid off the O
Co.’s soup not and disclosed t. h ® ri ?J"J ess P f 10 id p e r
tents Motor spirit conies into M.L. at P
gallon, yet the Wholesale price is Is 8d per gallon
Kerosene is landed at 7jd., and the retail cost is
Is. ljd. In the end, a committee was set up t
inquire into the whole business, or as far
Vacuum Oil Company will allow it to mqiiir
“John P.”: It looks ft? if the bilf shUipihp:
cos. that run the dim* iinbfs t 8 ar.d AM
rtie gettiftg flerilously near the edge of the tiireen,
if thev aren’t already in the broth, lor years these
cos 1 have fostered the importation of German goods
•nto M L., bv paying the freight from German ports
to London, and on top of that have given the Ger-
man manufacturer a preferential rate on bisstutt
which, although carried a greater distance, coul
dumped into M.L for less than the British article
The shinning cos.’s idea was to nil up tne vawm
sp ice in *their cargo boats and to offer the Germa
such a low rate that German transport cos would
he frightened off the ocean, as far as trading to M L.
was concerned. This, system has now built up such a
gigantic trade in German products that. there mi enougn
freight to keep a German line of »f “ " to b
kind of thing Hlußt Stop: that it 8 piracy
attempted murder &r concealment of the , g
Something. And the end is not yet.
“Croson” : Some enterprising■ Westralians have been
diagnosing the kingia tree, hitherto consideied almost
as great, though not so promiscuous, a P e ®t “
prickly pear in Bananaland. Inside the bark n
layer of fibre which makes brooms superior some
ihink to those of bass. Inside the fibre is a
core,’which, when pulped, is a ™hbep mat-
l that can be pressed into a multiplicity of snapes
and uses Strong and light trunks, l.oot heels ft .
roller-skate wheels have been made as Kiimples ai l
have stood all tests; in fact, there see s
babilitv that its cheapness und reliability
of its presently displacing sole leather, linoleum,
solid rubber tyres and a hundred other varieties o
raw material. The supply is practically unlimited
and the cost trifling.
* * *
“.I p”: Landlords who fondly imagine that because
a tenant pays his rent weekly he can be kicked Out
with a week’s notice, got a rude shock in
recently. At Palmerston North a landlord, fwbM
to rebuild, handed a weekly tenant seVeh days tlbtiee
to vanish. The tenant refused In disapjKsar so
hurried]v, and demanded a month’s notice in writing.
This annoyed the landlord,- who sent a hireling to
tear down the verandah and two chimneys. At this
stage the tenant took a turn for the worse, and fired a
wr it for damages at the landlord. In the Supreme
Court the learned Judge sided with the tenant, and
pointed out to all and sundry and otheis that, in
the absence of a specific agreement a tenant is
entitled to a month’s written notice. He then
ordered the landlord to hand over £5O to the tenant
to compensate him for having to do without chim-
neys and a verandah. Thereabouts the landlotd
dropped down dead or something equally desirable.
T.P.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T.P. cot so
White and neat,
Battered soon
By Baby's feet;
Taken when
He’s just a year
For the pay-
Ments in arrear!
T.P. suit when
He goes forth
In the world
To show his worth.
If decay
His teeth should sting,
T.P. teeth
Are just the thing!
He becomes
A married man ;
Buys a house
(Instalment plan)
Costly as
The rooms are small;
T.P. furn-
iture and all!
When the fam-
ily arrives,
With the cares
Of little lives,
The expense
Of many things
More T.P.
Upon him brings.
T.P. when
His daughter weds
For the feast
The table spreads ;
While the T.
P. devils smile,
One must do
The thing in style!
T.P. for
A hundred things,
Bankruptcy
Upon him brings ;
So he seeks,
With gloomy groan,
And secures
A T.P. loan !
Full of honors,
All T.P.,
And time-payment
Dieth he!
T.P. with
Him to the tomb
Goes as T.
P. coach and plume!
From the Cra-
Dle to the grave
Man to-day
Is T.P.’s slave;
Then in Heav-
En seeketh he
His allot-
Ment, bought T.P.!
N.S.W.
HAMER.


HE4RNE^
Never Neglect a Cold
If you do, you may find yourself engaged in a
despeiate fight with the Demon of Consumption.
Why run unnecessary risks when a DOSE or TWO of
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Is generally sufficient to CURE the WORST
COUGHS and COLDS
“ We are never without a bottle of HEJ}QNE’S
Bronchitis Cure in the house now. It practically
saved my little girl’s life. She was seven years’
old last July, and had been subject to Bronchitis
since birth. I nearly lost her two years ago. She
was wasting away and nothing did her any
good, and her Cough at night was very pain-
ful. I was advised to try HEJIIINE’S
Bronchitis Cure. I got a bottle, and she
began to improve immediately under your
Medicine. You would be surprised to see
how her Chest has filled out. She has not
had an attack of her old complaint since. We are
so thankful to see her in perfect health
E. TAYLOR,
Bridport Terrace, Adelaide.
Sold by all RELIABLE CHEMISTS and STORES.
If unobtainable locally, send direct to —
W. G. Hearne & Co.
GEELONG
. VICTORIA
d9iD9999W
91
SCHtfD
-'l
SHOtICO
I
L,
i \
n>.
7
ik,
7..\
ua<j,
7 4
i 'M
I
tUUM
l
¥
i
\
SSSK
//I
/ii\
)\
&
i
Wo
'fy
■fin
may
lead ta Lonsumphon.
Valuable alike me Invalid and Robust
A Complete Milk and Farinaceous Food.
Easy of Digestion, Most Agreeable to take, Simply and Quickly made.
The ‘AUenburys’ Diet is recommended for general use in place of ordinary milk foods, gruel etc. and is
particularly adapted to the needs of Dyspeptics, Invalids and the Aged. Being largely predigested it is
easy of assimilation. A cup of the ‘AUenburys’ Diet is useful in the forenoon, between meals.
The ‘AUenburys’ Diet may be taken with advantage, on going to bed, in the place of stimulants
Being easily digested it promotes tranquil and
refreshing sleep, free from the depressing re-
action ir the morning, which often follows
the taking of spirits.
For those who cannot readily digest milk the
‘AUenburys’ Diet is a welcome substitute, as it
does not cause indigestion and flatulence.
Allen & Hanfourys Ltd., London, Eng.,
and MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
M
DIET
’jr&simk
%
There is no need for Australians to
use
imported tooth pastes. The proprie-
tors of
EUPENTA
invite The Bulletin readers to test
without expense this popular
TOOTH PASTE
No dentifrice from abroad can compare
with the peppermint flavored (blue
box) Eudenta.
1/- per tube.
Write to
ROCKE, TOMPSITT 8 CO., Melbourne,
for a free sample, or, if Eudenta is un-
obtainable from your chemist or store,
send 1/3 in stamps for a large tube,
which will be sent post free.
EUDENTA Preserves and
Whitens the Teeth.
“THE LONE HAND” for Good Stories and Bright Articles. Price 6d*


We can offer you choice from the largest, most
varied display of good, reliable Timekeepers in
all Australasia, and, as practical Watchmakers
of 30 years’ standing, we personally recommend
every watch we sell.
Gent.'s Military Wristlet Watch, or nun
metal Case, High-grade Lever Movement, 20/-, 25/-
‘JO /- Silver, 40/-, 50/- 20 years guaranteed
Rolled Gold Case, £3/10/-
Each Watch is thoroughly oiled and adjusted
before leaving our Showrooms, and we give a
written guarantee (according to the price) with
every watch we sell, of 1,2, 3,4, 5 and 6 years’
free repairs. This is of real value to XOL.
Lady’s Solid Gold, Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, £4, £4/10/-
Gold, £7/10/- Other Designs, £5, £6, £7,
£B, £lO, £l2/10/-
m
25/-
so/-
Gent.’s Nickel Silver Hunting
Keyless Lever Watch, high-
grade movement, non-magnetic, extra
strong works, 25/-, 30/- Silver,
30/-, 35/-. Extra Heavy, 40/-,
50/-, 00/-, 70/-, SO/- With
high-grade works, £5, £B, £7,
£B/10/-
201-
/
&an.
Lady’s Solid Silver,
Open-face Keyless
Watch, full jewelled,
accurate, £O/- Extra
Quality, 25/-, 30/-,
40/-, 50/- Solid Gold,
40/-, 50/-, 60/-,
75/-
25/-
Toady’s Solid Silver,
Hunting Keyless
Watch, f-plate, full
jewelled, patent adjusted
balance, 25/- KS:tra
jewelled, 30/-, 40/-
Higher-grade Levers.
25/-
30/-
Send for our
Free Watch
Booklet.
SPECIAL VALUE !
Gent.’s Nickel Open-face Key-
less Watch, jewelled, dust and
waterproof cases, accurate, reliable,
10/-, 12/6, 15/- Higher grade,
non-magnetic time spring, thoroughly
• guaranteed, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-
101-
12/6
N
I
&
8/6
10
Lady’s Hack, Open-
face Keyless Watch,
full jewelled, .dust and
waterproof cases, 8/G.
Higher grade, 10/-,
12/6, 15/-, 20/-
a <1 y’s Solid Gold
Hunting Keyless
Lever Watch, full
jewelled, patent adjusted
balance, £3/10/-. Extra
jewelled, £4, £5, £6,
£7/10/-. £lO.
£3/10/-
£4
Lady’s Wristlet Watch, Oxidised Case, reli-
able movement, Morocco and other Leather Straps
in popular shades, J2/6, 15/-, 20/-, 20/-
Silver, 40/-, 45/- Gold, £2, £3/10/-
Gent.’s Patent, 10 years guar-
anteed, Gold-cased Hunting
Keyless Waltham, Elgin,
£2/15/-, £3. 20 years guaranteed,
£4.1/4/- 25 years guaranteed,
£5/5/- Extra Jewelled, £6/6/-
Kolid Gold, £6/10/-, £7/10/-,
£B, £lO, up to £25,
551-
60/-
807-817 GEORGE
STREET, SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS,
Opposite Railway
Station, SYDNEY.
$
■:
&
m
ID YOU MISS
the Rifles
we showed in the previous
issues of this paper? If
If so, you will find them
all in our Free Catalog. The Five Models shown below
selection, each having their own particular claims to i
attention.
give a further
i Sportsman’s
m
“ Savage ” Single Shot
Slfie - No. 3005 —Model 1904.
18 in. round barrel, bolt action, Walnut stock, V
tear sight and special fore-sight. Shoots .22 short,
long, and lcng-rifle cartridges ... Price
20/-
m
Remington UMC
Cadet Rifle-No. 3014-The features
that specially commend this are simplicity and
durability of action, superior quality, workmanship, matdr laland
perfect accuracy. Adjustable sights to 200 yards, Walnut stock, rifle butt plate. /_
28 in. barrel.. Shoots. .22 short, long and long rifle cartridges. ... .Price /
mm
Winchester 1005 Model Self-Loading
Rifle— No 3040—A self-loading, hammerless
take-down rifle, using smokeless cartridges The
reroil of the exploded cartridge ejects the empty shell,
re-cocks rifle, and brings a fre h cartridge into position. Magazine carries
5 cartridges. V 2 in. round barrel, sporting rear, and G. S. front sight.
Length 40 in., weight about IVi lbs. Calibres .32 and .35 ... ... ... Price
I
The New .22 “ Savage High , , , •
Power” Rifle No. 3026—A proved wonderfully
eff ctiv>e arm for even the largest game. It is the lightest
high-power rifle uncle. A hammerless, 6-shot repeater, weighing only
6Klbs. 20 in barrel, made from the famous Savage “ Hi-Pressure” -C r 7
steel. It uses the .22 "Savage High Power” cartridges. Price * i
m
F.N. Browning Automatic High Power
Rifle— No. 3045—The "Browning” automatic
rifle is, like the Browuing Pistol, far ahead of any other type.
The solid breech and locking are perfect, and the shots succeed
each other rapidly by a simple pressure of the finger on the trigger, and the precision of
each shot is assured, as the rifle remains at the shoulder all the time. It shoots .35 cal.
high power cartridges, with nickel jacketed soft nosed bullets; universally acknowledged
by the best sportsmen as most suitable for all purposes. Bead foresight and hinged turn-
over open and fine "V” rear sight. This can easily be turned while the rifle is at the
shoulder. Length, 41 ins.; weight, 8i lbs,; capacity, 5 cartridges; penetration XQ / IA/
at 75 ft., VA in. of wood. ... .... Price Av /
Gunmakers and Cartridge Manufacturers
SI B little Collins St., Melbourne
The “A.P.” Rifle Catalog contains 100
types of Sporting Rifles, suitable for all
kinds of game. Each of these can be had
with 12 different combinations of sights, so
the shooter has practically 1,000 Rifles to
choose from, prices: 10/-to £2O. Amongst
them are: 6 Rifles bv F.N. (Browning
Pistol Co); 3by Savage Arms Co.; 7by
Stevens Arms Co ; 49 by The Winchester
Co ; 5 by Remington U M.C ; 20 by
Marlin Arms Co,: Bby the B.S A. Co.
Calibres .22 to .45/90. Ask for one -Free
The Edison
School
I '• !. ' V-
■■ ; , ... .
Phonograph
Each year quite a large percentage of teachers
break down on account of the constant
physical and mental strain of talk, talk, talk
that forms the greater part of their work.
This strain can be practically eliminated by
installing an Edison School Phonograph,
which is niechanically the same as the well-
m
known “Concert” Phonograph. When provided with a Special
Recording Outfit the backbone of all the oral lessons of the day can
be prepared in the teacher’s spare time.
Such lessons as Dictation, Mental Arithmetic, Pattern Reading and
Singing, etc., can be prepared in such a way that the teacher is free
to deal with other details of his work. This should all tend to a
greater proficiency on the part of the pupils and-higher efficiency
on the part of the teacher.
Good Attendances on
Friday Afternoons.
Children look for excuses to stay home on Friday afternoons, but
the Self-Recording Attachment can be made a source of amusement,
and a special attraction for the children on Fridays.
Records can be made in the Schoolroom, and the wide field of educa-
tional and amusement possibilities which this feature opens will be
appreciated by every practical teacher.
The Edison School Phonograph is priced at £l7/10/- Recording
Outfit extra, consisting of Recorder, Shaving Outfit, and three
Blank Records. Price £2. • ;
Write us for fuller details. •. . '
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD, (Wholesale only), 364=372 Kent Street, Sydney


Harry Lauder
Melodies
sound best on
#
•i
CRACKAJACK
Mouth Organs
They ARE the Top Hoteliers.
They ARE made of the Best
Material Obtainable.
They ARE the Best.
Made in Six Styles.
PROFESSIONAL 3/- DOUBLE 1/-
SENIOR 2/- BOSS CRACKER 17-
JUNIOR 1/G CADET /G
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
SEND FOR FREE BOOKLET, No. 7.
mm
Silver-Toned
MELBA
Accordeons
Are unsurpassed
for their beau-
tiful quality of
tone, obtained by
the use of a
superior quality
of metal in the
reeds.
For Picnics,
Dances,
Accompaniments
PRICKS.
7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 17/6 to 42/-
WRITE FOR OUR NEW CATALOG.
SOLE WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Melbourne, Bendigo, Adelaide, Geelong.
X&I\SSSr
W:
»
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
pw™/[iiinim\\\\^
BOM
F.WOLFF&‘oOHN
F. Wolff &Sohn
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE ,
* LONDON
Obtainable at all the leading stores.
the teeth cleaned both
easily and thoroughly
Calvert’s
-?6oHi Polder
Scld by local Chemists and Stores .
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co.,Manchester,Eng;,
\
u
r
1
Do you feel fit
in the mornings ?
In the hot weather
when a man wakes in
the morning it is no
uncommon thing for
him to feel more tired
than when he went to
bed.
The heat of Summer
between latitudes 10°
and 39° south may
easily provoke a general
stagnation of the sys-
tem.
The juices of the body
are charged with impuri-
ties which the organs of
excretion the skin,
kidneys, etc. cannot
effectively expel ; the
liver is sluggish. You
are at the mercy of every
disease germ that can
attack the system.
• •
A half-teaspoonful of Kriis-
chen Salts taken in a tumbler
of hot water before the
morning cup of tea is an
unfailing remedy-
They cleanse the body of
impurities gently, surely
and painlessly—whilst pos-
sessing wonderful tonic
properties giving new life
and vitality to the countless
millions of cells of which the
human body is composed.
Flesh, blood, bone, brain
and nerve are all made up of
cells, and every cell requires
one or more of the com
stituents of Kriischen Salts
for its healthy life.
That is why doctors recom-
mend this famous remedy.
Kriischen Salts correct any
derangement of the organs
and fortify the body against
all forms of ague, dysentery
and eczematous irritation.
As a remedy for constipa-
tion they are infallible.
Begin to-morrow morning
with Kriischen Salts
and in a day or so you
will enjoy the vivacity
and vigour of perfect
well-being. Slackness
and depression vanish
and in their place comes
the healthy man’sfeeling
of confident optimism.
Kriischen Salts are not
effervescent. They can
therefore be taken with-
out any fear of flatulence
so often produced by
“ fizzy drinks.”
LIEBIG’S
ANALYSIS :
SODASULPH.
SODA CHLORID.
SODA PHOSPH.
MAGNES. SULPH.
MAGNES. CHLOR.
POTAS. SULPH.
POT AS. CHLORID.
Of all good chemists, grocers,
and stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents :
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITH HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/~
Per Bottle.
There's Sauce for you!
Montserrat
Lime Juice Sauce suits
all tastes, and owing to its
purity, adds a zest to food,
without upsetting the most
delicate digestion. It helps
your food to feed you.
ylak your Storekeeper for tt.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
Proved by independent
scientific investigation
to have a Body-Build-
ing Power of 10 to
20 times the amount
taken.
ESTABLISHED 1874.
FOR
COUGHS .
(Mridges'
yjkgMcj
FOR
COLDS.
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
SOLD BY RETAIL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
STOCKED BY ALL WHOLESALE
DRUG HOUSES in AUSTRALIA.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.
HULL, ENGLAND.
THE WORLD’S BEST
Calculating Machine,
The “Triumphator”
Novel and easier way of setting the figures,
which remain visible in special show-holes
above the setting levers.
Carrying over tens device in MULTIPLIER
and QUOTIENT, as well as in PRODUCT
show-holes.
Registers Multiplier and Quotient correctly
in large white figures.
Illustrated descriptive Catalogue on applica-
tion to the Agents:—
A. P. GREENFIELD g CO. LTD.,
189 George Street, Brisbane.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
Tn use since 1596.
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road. London. Kn£.
insist on “Singleton s' —refuse all substitutes.


THREE CHEERS!!
Haig § Haig Scots Whisky
(ESTABLISHED *679.)
Franz Josef Lager Beer
Hackerkrau Dark Lager
HOW OUR GRANDMOTHERS
MANAGED TO LOOK YOUNG
AT SIXTY.
“It is strange.” remarked an old chemist
the other day, “that so many women nowa-
days persist in trying all sorts of injurious
patent systems and complicated treatments,
hoping to restore ruined complexions or
improve the appearance of their skins,
when they might easily do so by the
simple home remedies of their grand-
mothers. In olden times a woman
looked comparatively young at sixty, while
now most women have blemished complexions
long before they are thirty. Yet nothing
new has been invented anything like so effec-
tive as the old-time lotion used by famous
French Court beauties, such as Recamier and
Du Barry, to preserve their youthful appear-
ance. The recipe was so simple: just 2oz.
rosewater. 1 dram tincture of benzoin, and
2oz. ordinary flowers of oxzoin, which any
chemist will supply. Mix the lotion well,
then apply with a soft cloth. If you apply
it regularly it will not only keep the skin
free from wrinkles, but will quickly restore
the dullest complexion. My own daughter
is nearly fifty years old, and in this way she
keeps her face looking so young and fresh
that most people think she has not reached
the age of thirty-five.”
The above advice indicates such a simple,
harmless means to rejuvenate the appearance,
that it is published jor the benefit of lady
readers.*
S ,x S,. ¥E ;"A°» , . H rffi HOWARD Watch.
In more than one hundred and fifty highly-
specialised occupations, Howard Time is a ruling
Call and see the Watch or send for the Illus-
trated Booklet.
PROUDS LTD., Jewellers,
Sole Representatives, 187 PITT STREET, SYDMEY^
POLITICAL
POINTS
Thus Robert Best at a meeting at Surry
Hills (Vic.) in support of the Liberal six
applicants for the Senate job (Argus
30/6/’l4) :
This campaign is going to be a campaign of mis-
representation and slander.
But isn’t it rather bad policy to give away
the party’s intentions so soon?
ELIJAH’S MANTLE AND THE
PROFIT JOSEPH.
Another very important matter that has been decided is that the principle of Protection having
met with the support of the majority of the Australian people, it is to be one of the main features of
the Ministerial programme. —S. M. Herald.
GRANNY: “Goodness me, Joseph! Why did you change your pretty colored suit for that
ugly dress? It doesn't fit you, dear. Take it off, to please Granny.”
The importing complaint again! \ ic-
toria imports a United States engineer to
look after the electrification of the Mel-
bourne suburban railways. The last time
it imported a railway expert from the other
side of the Pacific it got Tait. Before that
it imported a railway genius and got
Speight. Incidentally it imported some irri-
gation geniuses and got the Chaffeys. In
betw-een it imported Coode. the harbor and
river genius. Looking at the long list of
ghastly results it should begin to feel tired.
Besides, Victoria imported Merz to draft a
scheme for the electrification of suburban
railways, and if it can’t carry out his simple
project with its own brains it had better
import a Premier.
A SAFE BBACK-GATE, POLICY.
LONDON, Saturday.—Naval policy in the Pacific
is the subject of an article in the current number
of the Round Table. “The question develops the
argument,” says the writer, “that the real danger
to Australia is Japan, and that the Commonwealth
is justified in not reposing too much trust in the
Anglo-Japanese Alliance.”
A weird cable from Rome sets forth that
business has been blocked in the Italian
Parliament through asafetida, which smells
something horrible, being poured ovet the
Opposition benches. It isn’t known whether
the Government poured the horrid substance
on the Opposition benches to stink out its
critics, or whether the Opposition poured
the awful thing on its own benches and then
left with its nose in its hand. Anyhow, it
seems a new departure in politics.
The importing disease, which is largely a
result of the foreign loan disease, is making
itself felt in N.S.W. The number of people
employed in local manufactures still grows,
but the expansion is slacking on. In
the increase as compared with o’lf.
amounted to 8913 employees. In 1912 the
increase was 6937. In 1913 it w T as oCLd.
Importation and borrowing and the size ot
the bill left to the infant accumulate very
fast, and the abundance of the local job
accumulates rather slowly.
“Gazeeka”: A feature of the opening of
the session of Maoriland’s Parliament on
June 25 was that the House had no occa-
sion to adjourn as a mark of respect to the
memory of a deceased member
or ex-member. For years past
the opening of every session has
been followed by an adjourn-
ment, and veteran members can-
not remember a recess during
which some politician has not
departed for a land where the
party system is not.
Maoriland, by reason of its
frenzied “loyalty,” once refused
to shut out any nigger belong-
ing to the British Empire, and
being an isolated sort of place
with which the nigger wasn’t
much acquainted, it was able
for a while to. pursue its “loy-
alty” without?' damage. Now
the Hindu' has discovered
Maoriland, and it has discovered
in its turn that Australia, with
its Alien Restriction Act,
wasn’t so foolish after all. The
flapdoodle about “the flag” has
fallen to a discount, and the
Massey Government proposes
to strike the babu from Bengal
and the British Chow from
Kowloon with much the same
education test which Australia has been
using for a number of years. "but 1S
to sav. the colored brother may be asked to
write 50 words in a European language and
allowed 20 minutes in which to do the deed.
Preliminary figures show that, guided by
a “non-borrowing” Labor Government which
has borrowed harder than any predecessor,
Westralia is the first proud Australian State
to fasten a public debt of £lOO on the
shoulders of every man, woman and child
in the country. With the help of the same
sort of non-borrowing Government A. S.
Wales early last year was pushed past the
£100,000,000 mark ; so both honors for dread-
ful finance now belong to the two mainland
States with Labor Governments. -At least,
they still call themselves Labor Governments
at election times.
MAWSON’S KNIGHTHOOD.
AUSTRALIA: “ Good luck to you, Maw son; but
that rig-out puts you down in the same
class with rich drapers and retired
grocers.”
The Meat Trust is evidently so satisfied
there ig no hann ; n Cook that, according to
a Rockhampton correspondent, the stuff from
th old q.Q.M.E. works is now frankly
branded “ Armour & Co.”
. , ~
Faced with the threat of a round robin
against the earmarking of the P.M.G.-ship
for Willie Watt, Joe Cook allows the whisper
to go round among his hungry followers that
a new portfolio—Public Works—will be
created if the party gets back. In short,
“If we must give this big-jawed fellow a
crumb in return for the wavering \ ic. Lib-
eral vote which the Age is trying to rob us
of, there shall be just as many crumb 3 as
there were before for the rest of yon.
,• „ , . „
News is cabled from England that A. C.
Carmichaelj N g w Minister for Education,
j iag en i nves tig a ting the musical and art
metbods 0 f Milan, • Munich, Leipzig, Dres-
den and Berlin. Good old Carmichael! Now
[f be W ould only investigate the Public Debt
repayment methods of Britain, which does
quite surprising things in the way of repay-
ment when it gets a quiet spell, Carmike
m [ght bring back some really valuable infor-
mation. This country has already as much
music and as much piano-strumming to every
ton of human flesh as any other place on
earth, but it is dreadfully scarce in the way
of Public Debt repayment.
THE RECOVER [?].
Mr. Cook and Mr. Holman addressed meetings at
Cootamundra on successive nights.
C OOTA: "Either of ’em bad enough, but fancy
mixing ’em.”
It is interesting to observe that while
Labor Premier Holman, in New South
Wales, is holding back democracy from it 3
natural victim, the nominee Chamber, Tory
Premier Massey is leading the fight against
it in Maoriland. True, he is not out to
abolish the Council, but he will do the next
best thing. His Reform Bill provides for
making the Upper House elective by propor-
tional representation, and in order to insure
the passage of the measure about a dozen
new Councillors, pledged to its support, are
to be apnointed. Labor’s autocratic leaders
in N.S.W. seem to be amongst the last of
the old Conservative defenders of Fat’s
Blockade House.
THE CORPSE REVIVERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On one side stand the Socialists, threatening to
capture and subordinate the whole legislative machin-
ery of the country to their class aims and propaganda.
On the other side are the Liberal forces united in
an attempt to secure the Federal Constitution and
free government from predatory hands, and restore a
free Parliament to a free people. That is the issue
of the campaign. For some time we have striven to
get things to issue in this way. Now that the way
is clear we appeal to the people to put the Socialists
in their proper place, clear of all possibility of
danger to the Commonwealth. —Joe Cook.
The night was chill. A leering moon,
With streaming drap’ries, like a ghost,
Swung ’cross the night. A whimpering loon
Mid headstones grim (a spectral host
That flecked the gloom) stood quaking, where,
Digging among the rich black loam,
A body-snatcher or a gnome
Threw out the bleaching bones to air.
“What is it?” said the digger Cook.
The frosty watcher shook his head,
Nor gave the bones another look.
“ ’Tis Capital in Flight,” he said.
Cook moved, and in another grave
He put his awful burrow down.
This time the bones were green and brown.
“’Tis Freetrader’ said the watching knave.
Cook dug the graveyard o’er and o’er,
And tossed the grinning skulls about;
And still the watcher murmured “More!”
Till Anti-Sosh was shovelled out.
They spread its rib-bones on the straw,
And with a lengthy piece of string
They threaded up the fearful thing—
And Irvine groaned at what he saw.
“It smells to Heaven. Oh!” said he,
“A mean and shameful thins; I wis
It is if we keep eompanee
With such a loathly sprite as this.”
“We must,” Joe said, “to fright the breath
From voter's free.” But Irvine-moaned.
“ ’Twill only fright those ones,” he groaned,
“Who are already scared to death.” '»
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.
THE ACHIEVEMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Under the heading of “What Liberalism Has Done
the Sydney Telegrarh (3/7/’l4) prints nearly a
column of the trivial administrative matters fixed up
by Agar Wynne, or Agar Wynne’s office-boy, in the
Postal Department.
To-day my fancy spreads its wings,
My Muse is on the run
To carol all the wondrous things
The Liberals have done.
I see their armies all in line,
And singing as they tramp:
“We made a change in the design
Upon the postage stamp.”
What have you done, you mighty Libs.,
You statesmen stern and rude,
To make the babies on their bibs
Bubble with gratitude?
The answer comes: “We rest content
With this reform sublime —
No stamps to lick on letters sent
In twenties at a time.”
The pallid folk in boarding-dens,
Hash-houses with the ’phone,
May have, for only sixty pence,
Their separate names made known.
To realise : their proudest hopes
The people need not wait —
Pictorial stamps on envelopes
Will make them glad and great.
The crisis of election comes,
The noise of battle calls;
And over all the banging drums
I hear the Liberals:
“Behold the noble deeds we did
While glorious Agar reigned—•
A set of stamps for half a quid
All stamp collectors gained.”
They said they knew a way to meet
Our monstrous public debt;
Some day that job may be complete—
They haven’t done it yet;
But Liberals may walk in pride
Untouched by any fear,
With their code address in the Postal Guide
At two-and-six a year.
N.S.W.
M.


Q
a
n
Q
o
PeRFEC'ik
\P^L
Q:»:<>:< ©..©w*^
**>:< >:i' a& ©sk
F=S=H-
-11 ■■■■•«!
Write
for
Catedop'
Vacuum Oil
Company
Pty. Ltd
Throughout the
Commonwealth and
New Zealand
“INVINCIBLE” OIL ENGINES
Marine, Stationary and Portable
for every purpose and for every fuel, are
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
“INVINCIBLE” OIL ENGINES are easy to understand and easy to operate.
You don’t need to be an Engineer in order to keep an “Invincible” going steady
and strong all day and every day.
The simplicity of the design is such that there are few parts to get out of
order, and everything is made of such FIRST-CLASS MATERIAL that repairs
are reduced to a minimum.
We stock these Engines in all sizes from lh.p. to lOOh.p.
“INVINCIBLE” ENGINES ARE GUARANTEED FOR FIVE YEARS.
Our Illustrated Catalogs are mailed to any address promptly.
INVINCIBLE MOTOR CONSTRUCTION CO. LZL
Works : MORT'S DOCK, Woolwich. Showrooms: 35 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sole Distributing Agents for “INVINCIBLE” Stationary and Portable Engines for New South Wales are:
Messrs. JAMES BELL & CO., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BOORS ON
Telephony.
Students studying' for the coming
examinations should see our
helpful boo Ks.
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND,
Post
Free.
COMMON BATTERY TELEPHONY SIMPLIFIED, by Walter
Atkins. 1913 .. 3/8
PRINCIPLES OF AUTOMATIC TELEPHONY, by Walter Atkins 2/8
TELEPHONOLOGY, by Van Deventer and other experts. (Just
arrived) .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 20/8
TELEPHONY, a comprehensive and detailed exposition of the
theory and practice of the Telephone Art, by McMeen and
Kempster Miller .. .. .. .. .. •• 20/10
PRINCIPLES OF ELECTRIC WAVE TELEGRAPHY AND
TELEPHONY, by J. A. Fleming 34/10
THE INSPECTOR AND THE TROUBLEMAN, an explanation in
plain English of Magneto Exchanges, Line Construction, Tele-
phone Troubles, etc., with diagrams, by Edwards, etc. .. 6/3
TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH ENGINEERS’ HANDBOOK
(1.C.5.), 1912. An excellent book .. .. .. .. 3/8
AITKEN’S MANUAL OF THE TELEPHONE, 1911. Valuable new
book dealing with Automatic and other improvements .. 23/2
PRACTICAL TELEPHONE HANDBOOK, by Poole 7/10
ELEMENTS OF TELEPHONY, by Crotch 1/11
TELEPHONE TROUBLES, AND HOW TO FIND THEM, by Hyde -/9
ELEMENTARY TELEGRAPHY AND TELEPHONY, by Arthur
Crotch, 1912 5/10
ELEMENTARY MANUAL OF RADIO-TELEGRAPHY AND RADIO-
TELEPHONY, by Fleming 9/4
PRACTICAL USES OF THE WAVE METER IN WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY, by Maudborgue, 1913 .. .. .. .. 5/S
THE STROWGER AUTOMATIC EXCHANGE, by W. J. Bailey,
1914. This is a new and well-illustrated Handbook on Auto-
matic Telephones .. .. .. .. .. •• •• 2/8
N.S.W. Bookstall Co. Ltd.,
476 George Street
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS),
Sydney
REXOPHONE
Talking Machines
QUALITY—
The Rexophone KEYNOTE,
The “SYD,” 1914 Model, £4
(Ih New Zealand, 3L5151-)
Because of its Wonderful Tone —because of its Handsome Cabinet —
because of its Reliability —from the time of its introduction the “Syd”
Rexophone has been the most popular Talking Machine of the hornless type.
The 1914 Model, which is now ready, has the following important
improvements, which will make the “Syd” more popular than ever.
New Rexophone Model W Worm Gear Motor, with improved
Governor Adjustment, the simplest and most reliable motor built.
Swan-neck. Arm, taper, full length, highly Nickel-plated.
Superior Oak Cabinet, handsome and strongly built, with wooden
shutters and double doors.
Rexophones ahd Rexophone Records are sold everywhere in
Australia and New Zealand. Write for complete Catalogues and address
of nearest agent.
JACKSON & MACDONALD,
457 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


The Australian tennis champioins are
again in their right position—on top. And
to have the best chance of achieving that
desirable locality is to seek occasional ener-
gising and heartening counsel from the on-
top brand, King George IV. topnotch Scotch.*
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOGRLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
A
Sure
; Tip”
AHM
THOROUGHBRED Hats
Look for the “Thoroughbred” (Regd.) Trade
Mark (with the Horse’s Head) whenever YOU
buy a hat. The “Thoroughbred” is A
WINNER every time. Newest shapes (Hard
or Soft Felts). Sold everywhere at popular
prices.
If unobtainable in your district, write direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS LTD.,
Abbotsford, MELBOURNE.
THEY STIR THE LIVER.
NO REMEDY AS POTENT AS DR.
MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS.
The climate of Australia is such that the
liver gets out of order Quicker than any
other organ of the body. When the liver does
get out of order the whole system is upset,
and constipation, biliousness and stomach
troubles follow speedily. Dr. Morses
Indian Root Pills reach the liver in a satis-
factory manner. They open the clogged
ducts, allowing the bile to flow, which is
essential to the digestion and assimilation
of food. Constipation, biliousness, stomach
troubles and sick headaches are the result of
liver inactivity, and the remedy that fetirs
the Liver” will at once relieve these dis-
tressing complaints.’"
Mother’,pediC. POMADE for THE HEAD
Strikes infesting vermin dead. One applica-
tion destroys vermin, kills nits, heals sores, cures
ringworm, ' and makes the hair grow thick and
curly. Kills lice on live stock.
Sydney Agents: Talbots, 206 George Street:
and Washington Soul. Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, or posted from J. Brin, Chemist,
East Malvern, Vic.—l/2, 2/3, 3/9, and with Nit
Comb. 6d. extra.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
V. Hemery’s amazing “flying mile track
record” of 31 l-ssec., which he established at Brook-
lands (England) in November, 1909, came to final woe
last week, when L. G. Hornsted, on the same course,
flew over the distance in 28.095ec., equal to 1284
miles an hour. Hornsted is the famous Benz dare-
devil driver. But fast as was his time it is not a
record for the mile, but only for the mile on a
circular track. R. Burman, the reckless Yankee
chauffeur, in April, 1911, on the straightaway course
of Davtona Beach, Florida (U.S.A.), bounded over
1760 yards in 26 2-ssec. —equal to 1414 miles per
hour. Yet although Burman’s dash was very wonder-
ful it does not compare in merit with the wild leap
of Hornsted round the banked track at Brooklands.
That was enough to make even an archangel blink
hard.
The world’s most strenuous motor-car test,
Known as “the Alpine Tour,” was battled through by
74 of the world’s most representative cars from the
14th to the 23rd of June, over 1820 miles, in eight
spasms. The course ran round about and in and
out of the Austrian Alps, over 24 precipices, or rather
passes, every one of which was over 6000 ft. in height
or drop. It was a land that had originally been
full of devils, but the devils had got caught in the
mud and frozen, and were known locally, for want of
a better name, as “roads.” The winner turned up
in a Minerva car, shod with Dunlops and fitted with
a silent Knight sleeve-valve type of engine. Eleven
of the makers had entered teams of three cars, and
the drivers were mostly picked men. This reserva-
tion is necessary, as a couple of Austrian archdukes,
Josef Ferdinand and Henry Ferdinand, took part, and
it would be rank blasphemy to call them picked men.
They seem to be more often picked off. It was a
fine, imposing array of cars at the start, among those
who also ran being the Rolls-Royce, Benz, Austro-
Daimler, Opel, Fiat, Darracq, Vauxhill, Cadillac, Over-
land, Laurin-Klement, Hotchkiss, Puch, Wolseley,
Nag (what a name!) and Armstrong-Whitworth. The
Minerva seems to be booming of late.
* * * »
The third Test between the English North-
ern Union ATI I arid the. Australian team at Sydney
Cricket Ground was a Homeric battle. The manage-
ment of the English team wished to postpone the
fixture as most of its alleged best men were on the
shelf through injuries, but the Rugby League
pressed for its rights, and a cable whispered round
the world to the English to go in and win—or die.
So they went in with their alleged worst team.
(The Lord save our present team from their real
best!) Up till half-time the English XIII re-
mained intact, and it had jumped on the locals to
the tune of nine to nil. The' Australian pack was
the superior one, but the back machine of the Eng-
lish was like unto the famous Immortal Band or the
Old Guard, which dies but doesn’t drink; and the
most formidable of them was the captain, Wagstaff,
placing in the three-quarter line. His control of the
team was worth more than sixpence, and his indivi-
dual play was akin to that of Lucifer when he
kicked the football out of Heaven. The English con-
certed play was magnificent compared to that of
the Australians, who ceased to bo a team, and
degenerated into a crowd of splendid Private Enter-
prise. each Private Enterprise playing his own
game. Aid semblance of temperate order was lost.
Every man bogged in ferociously on his own potato-
patch. It was in a wild-cat struggle right in front
of Australia’s goal that things began to happen.
One Englishman had to leave with a wrenched aim,
and almost immediately after another twisted his leg
and commenced to limp off—and England (which
does not replace injured men) found itself with only
XI to XIII. But in spite of this the English con-
tinued to attack. Trampling over everything with
the large boots of confidence, and pulling everyone
down like a gorilla struggling with herbs, the Ma
Country scored, and then adding the points led with
14 to nil. The watching crowd was stricken as
near dumb as 35,009 people could be. Later
on, another man was injured, and with 10 to 13 the
English team was hustled back on to its line. A
humble but terrific dust-up occurred, in which men
were rolled over like ninepins and jersevs torn like
tissue-paper. The English fought like a Salva-
tion Army drum at its loudest to keep their goal
intact, and for a long while succeeded. Then Aus-
tralia broke through, as if it was running to catch
a train, but could not add the points. The Eng-
lish defence resumed. Australia hurled its combina-
tion to the winds, while England strove to keep some
semblance of a machine. This country, full of
undeveloped natural resources,, raged like.,the heathen,
but every time the English captain could get his
machine together he let it loose —not in the hope of
scoring, but of carrying the war away from the
English line. And the manoeuvre was successful.
It stalled off the attack till right on time, when
the last charge proved successful and one more try
was registered. But again ’the Australian boofpr
failed to add ‘the points, and then the whistle
made its melancholy sound, and England reeled
from the field, victorious by 14 points to six.
By dancing on St. George to the tune of
21 to three Glebe maintained its position at the
head of the Sydney Rugby Union competition. But
it was a runaway victory which does not leave a
long-remembered drink flavor in the mouth. Most
of the Union games on Saturday last were of the
same nature. Eastern Suburbs utterly obliterated
Randwick bv 30 to three —which was not football
but butchery. University rubbed the ear of Manly
up against the wall of the public-house, the figures
being 22 points to eight. But the most surprising
debacle of the day was the downfall of Newtown,
which failed to score a single point to Western
Suburbs’ 17. That was among the. things reckoned
impossible. The only well-contested struggle of the
day was that in which South Sydney downed Balmain
by 17 points to 13.
The chief interest in the Australian Rules
Section on Saturdav rested on the issue of the
struggle between Newtown and Svdnev, It was
watched by what was just about the record crowd
for the season. The most interested party was South
Sydney, for if Newtown could defeat the premier
team. South’s position at the head of the competition
would be almost unassailable with 40 points to 32,
and onlv two matches to be played before semi-
finals. It was a mighty close struggle, too. First
quarter saw Sydney ahead with nine to three, but
half-time saw a different state of affairs, with New-
town leading with 18 points to 16. Then Newton
lost one of its best men, and the golden hope began
to wither. But the team played all it knew, and at
three-quarter time was still on top with 32 points
to 17. This promising state put fresh hopes and
powers into the Newtown side, and it dashed into
the fray, and amidst tremendous excitement ran out
with 32 points to 26. In addition to enhancing the
position of South Sydney this unexpected upheaval
also made more rosy the chances of Newtown reach-
ing the semi-final stage, to enter which a club must
win to one of the first four places at the top of
the competition. Central-Western shares the second
rank with Sydney. Newtown has 28, Paddington
24, and North and East eight each.
N.S.W. Rugby League’s pockets are bulg-
ing to bursting point, the visit of the English having
proved a veritable treasure trove. Five games in
Sydney yielded over £12,000, representing the gilt
of 186,000 barrackers —-an awful thought. The in-
vading force takes 65 per cent, of the gross, or
£7BOO. Truly the invaders’ bread is buttered on
both sides and his sandwich consists of two slices
of meat and no bread in between.
* * * *
Saturday’s Melbourne lioofball left both
League and Ass. ‘competitions in an interesting, if
unaccountable, state. At present ’Roy, South, Carl-
ton and Essendon are on top, with but a game
between each. They follow ’Wood, Geelong and St.
Kilda, and a single victory will put any one of the
three ahead of Essendon. So the games are strenu-
ous, to put it nicely. South, on Saturday, crept
up to within two competition points—half a game—
of ’Roy, by scoring 10 points more, which result was
mainly due to the Red and White’s accurate kicking
—-64 points to ’Roy’s 54 points being the tally.
St. Kilda and Essendon likewise put up a tall
scuffle, which the faster and better organised ’Dons
would have won but for their untidy goal shooting,
their ultimate 54 points being only enough to draw
against the Saints’ 54 points. ’Wood, as in so many
previous seasons, left itself with a hard contract later
on by fooling away easy games. It went to Rich-
mond and held a fair grip of affairs up to the last
quarter. Then it fooled around, while Richmond
rushed up 20 points and found it couldn’t go fast
enough to overtake the deficit in the time specified,
being beaten by 65 to 49. The situation of ’Wood,
also St. Kilda and Geelong, now is that they must
win five of the next six games to reach the finals,
and it isn’t possible for all to do it. Geelong outed
Melbourne by 68 points to 22 ; and Carlton pa-ssed
the Students their appointed trouncing—B7 to 56.
The struggle of the Ass. teams to be of
the “chosen four” is even more vimful, for though
but four games are yet to be played only two clubs,
Hawthorn and Northcote, are absolutely out of it.
North leads with 40 competition points, ’Scray owns
40, ’Town 36, Essendon 32, ’Wick 30, and Port, P’ran
and Brighton 28 each. So the quaint suburb of
Robinson Snowball may even yet arrive, though the
writer wouldn’t care to risk the price of a pint
The poultry gets away with
McGoorly's chance of a win.
on its doing so. On Saturday Essendon stepped up
a rung by taking ’Scray by the slack of its prowess,
so to speak, and wiping the sodden turf with it,
going home ultimately with a credit balance of 64
points to ’Scray’s 39. Port brought itself on a level
with P’ran by a supreme final outburst, in which it
scored a goal just as the timekeeper reached for the
bell, and so gathered in 76 points to) P’ran’s 75.
’Town pushed itself a step nearer the top—and
Brunswick one nearer the bottom —-by callously, if
methodically, scoring nine goals to the Brickmakers’
six. Each side got four behinds, which was comely
kicking, but of no moment in deciding the issue.
Brighton went to Hawthorn and staggered its
barrackers by systematically piling up two points to
every one that Hawthorn made—Bo to - 40. Also,
North went to Northcote and played. There is an
allegation about someone having noted the scores,
but the writer disremembers them. ’Cote lost, any-
how. It was a matter of no real importance.
* * * *
“H.C.C.” gives a brother pressman a send-
off: Australian rules football in Sydney lost an en-
thusiastic press champion by tile death of “Billy”
Williams. In the Star for several seasons, and
subsequently in the Sun, the Australian code was
kept as well and truly to the front as was possible by
the little man with the youthful figure, big head,
piercing dark eyes, short, quick steps, and inevitable
stick ever upon his left forearm. It was not a case
of devotion to the duty book, but of genuine affec-
tion for the game. He was an enthusiast/ He knew
football thoroughly, and next to his beloved Austra-
lian code he placed- “Soccer.” He knew the strength
to a side of every first-grade club in Sydney, and
acted on East Sydney’s management and selection
committees. Visiting teams from other States did
him reverence and “brothered” him for years.
When Newtown (Sydney) was entertaining St. Kilda
i'Welti.) the visiting team rose to its feet and gave
him “three Sunday-school cheers” (inaudible), “three
lady-like cheers” (a mincing whisper), “three St.
Kilda cheers” (roof-raisers), and “three Australian
cheers” (pandemonium reinforced). , His sterling ser-
vices deserve some -recognition by the Australasian
Football Council. f
* * * *
The results of the All-England (or what
are generally- regarded as the world’s) tennis cham-
pionships make the Australasian team’s chances for
the Davis Cup look rosy. All four of the Australians
got as far as the semi-finals in the doubles against
the pick of the world’s players (Americans excluded),
but neither Dunlop nor £)oust got any farther.
Brookes and Wilding were left in to argue the final
with the two Lowes, and the Australian pair won.
They are now booked to meet Roper Barrett and
Dixon in the challenge round. In the singles. Dun-
lop and Doust dropped out before the semi-finals, but
Brookes reached the final, where he beat Kroitzheim,
the German champion, after five sets. In the chal-
lenge round he met Wilding, tire holder, and relieved
him of the title after three straight sets, wherein he
gave, according to English papers, “the greatest
exposition of tennis to date.” Summed up this means
that out of six places in the finals Australians filled
four, and two of them got into both challenge
rounds. It’s a pity the American cracks didn t play
—it would have made it easier to pick the Davis Cup
winners. But on their present form, and after the
heap of practice lately, Brookes and Co. ought to just
about relieve Uncle Sam of the trophy. the lust
preliminary Cup round (England v. Belgium) began
on Tuesday.
**' * *
“0.K.” : The big steeplechase at Flemiug-
ton, next Saturday, which will be worth about ±.1500
to the winner, promises to bring youth and age into
interesting competition. Icon and Anachrion are
four-year-olds of the Grafton breed, with the family
aptitude for jumping that Grafnell and Grafnax
showed of yore. Vanguard, Leah lvleshna, Guncap,
The Miser, Zephuron, Coradjill and others are more
practised ’chasers in the aged division. And all ot
them seem fresh and willing for the fray just at
present. Experienced followers of the game hold
mostly to the doctrine of “an old dog for a hard
road,” the G. NV Steeplechase being a very hard
road in the matter of obstacles. But the young
horses, although not chucked into the handicap,
should be always in the front rank for two miles
bar accidents, and will stay there to the bitter end
if their jumping muscles are sufficiently developed.
On the other hand, the staying ability of some of the
old stagers is beyond doubt. Leah lvleshna and Gun-
cap are previous winners, “aged” now, but not too
old. Coradjill finished third last year. V ith
Guncap in particular, the questions are: Did he beat
anything as gay and sprightly as Icon and Anachrion
two years ago, when he carried lOst. 61b. to victory
in record time, and has he lost any pace since t-hen ?
With only 71b. more to carry, he is better handi-
capped on form than either Leah Kleslina and Corad-
jill, for the latter was merely placed, and the extra
91b. bestowed on Leah for her victory brings her
weight to 12st., which is rather a crusher for a
rather small mare. Besides, that lovely lady jumper
appears not so thoroughly wound up as the son of
Carbinier, though she is looking well. In fact
Guncap, of ail the veterans, is the most dangerous on
paper. When he won the National he was giving a
stone to United Kingdom, who lately ranked as one
of the best, but has gone off for some unaccountable
reason—an internal injury, perhaps. Therefore the
students of steeplechasing regard Guncap firstly, and
Coradjill secondly, as the most likely representatives
of experienced age versus go-ahead youth, Icon and
Anachrion being bovs in comparison.
* * * *
This paper’s suggestion that Sir Prim and
Beccassine, among the lightweights, were likelv to
stay in front of Obi and Clontaft from start to finish
of the G. N. Hurdle Race was nearly half a mile
short of the full distance, as far as Clontaft was
concerned. For about 24 miles Beccassine, Bill
Brandon and Sir Prim made all the running, which
was fast. Then the two youngest members of the
field were done with, but the aged Bill Brandon (9st.
41b.) kept plugging away in the lead until Clontaft
came along, full of ginger, and settled the argument
in two strides. Clontaft (list. 41b.) won by five
lengths, whilst the eccentric Lord Grey put in a run
which beat Bill Brandon for second place. Thus
Erie A. Connolly, the bold backer and reputed owner
of Clontaft, as well as of Lord Grey, took another
big rise out of the “books.” Obi’s conspicuously bad
running was said to be explained by a twisted plate,
whereas two other previous winners of the National —•
viz., Arquebuse and Wingarara—had no visible excuse
to offer. 1 r the pacemakers and the gee that
finally rushed to the front, nothing ever looked
dangerous bar Dust Cloud, who was utterly pumped
opt at the finish.
* * * *
If the “noble sports” of Britain take only
the feeblest interest in professional sculling it isn’t
that they get no reminders of the
poorness of the game in its pro-
fessional aspect. Barry and his
friends have always been clamoring
for financial support, and now the
champion is making an apneal for
a subscription on Jim Paddon’s
account. Paddon having sprained
his wrist, Barry has agreed to put
back their race for a fortnight, from
August 24 to September 7, suggest-
ing at the same time that the
“public” will pay the challenger's expenses. If
no cash is forthcoming from the world in general,
Barry will allow the Australian more than a half-
share of the steamboat receipts, which are the nearest
approach to gate-money that scullers can hope for.
One of these days the blessed public will remember
that boat nulling is the one big athletic sport in
which no black man has ever taken the shine out of
the whites, and then, perhaps, the patrons of Chris-
tian sporting endeavor will do something for sculling.
There has been no Johnson, Deerfoot or Kan ji of
the river, thus far. It needs more than a black
man’s pluck and determination to make a champipn
oarsman.
Sydney baseball, in finishing another com-
petition round on Saturday, provided plentv of
excitement for those who find the other sidelights
of winter revelry too aesthetic. The growth of “gate”
is as comforting as hot toddy on a cold night to
those who control the show ; and attendances of over
5000 prove forcibly that the game is flourishing
like a bay tree. The sparkle of the round certainly
belonged to Lane Cove —which has not won a game
this season—and its bulldog fight against Leich-
hardt was inspiring. Half-way through the game
(five innings) the score was four all; but in the
other four biffs Leichhardt scored two runs, while
Lane Cove could onlv steal one. It was the kind
of shave which chills the marrow and builds up a
hatful of respect for the other bloke. Petersham,
in its own backyard, accounted for Mosman-N. Syd-
ney by eight runs to, three; while in the other
matches. Waverlev chewed Burwood and picked its
teeth with the bones by 13 to 7, and Paddington
felled University by six runs to one. The round left
Waverley in the lead with nine wins. Petersham and
Leichhardt being on their coat-tails with eight each,
while Paddington (five) and University (four) are
the only other clubs whose chances are better than
Buckley’s of getting into the semi-final.
The latest in strikes in Sydney is a
disturbance in the charmed circle of pony-racing,
where owners have decided not to race at certain
courses until the boodle is fattened considerably.
The bloated clubs are adamantine, and threaten to
bring ponies from Victoria, and other parts and
territories adjacent. But the Owners’ Association,
which controls something like 700 prads, has
declined to be impressed bv the threat, and has
hardened its heart and stiffened its neck. Some
people say its units have stiffened more than their
necks in their time. However, the owners have to
carry a nosebag, and the clubs have not, and the
weight, of that utensil mav prove the decisive factor.
The sudden and somewhat dramatic over-
throw of Colin Bell, the Moree (Australia) heavy-
weight, by the English beauty pugilist, Bombardier
Wells, was not at all unexpected in this country.
Bell had proved in Australia to be a phenomenally
unreliable, in-and-out fighter. He shaped exceptionally
well since his arrival in Europe, and a sudden and
astounding change of form was about due if he
kept his old sudden habits about him. Of his skill
there was never any doubt whatever, and his hitting
power was admitted by all who had been hit by him.
What Australians had always grievously suspected was
the want of stamina to keep his tail starched and
pokerwise and erect during the long course of 20
rounds. Of the actual fight there is little to be
said. The first round consisted of the usual ex-
changes, alarms and excursions, in which Bell seems
to have thrown out the majority of the punishment,
and to have ruffled his blue-eyed, golden-haired beauty
opponent badly. Bell is not beautiful in excess, or
lovely beyond comparison, and his countenance when
seen in battle array is reminiscent of an over-fried
egg or pork crackling. When the second round
started Bell rushed to close quarters and devoted him-
self to the Englishman’s body. Wells, apparently,
was receiving considerable punishment in a clinch
when he took a sudden dislike to Bell, and broke
from his embrace or caress, and the Australian
dropped his guard. Then the planet burst, or some-
thing, and the next thing Bell knew was that he
had outraged man and all the gods by trying to
hoist himself to his feet per medium of the immac-
ulate pants of referee Eugene Corri, Esq.
Next day Bell’s manager tried to fix up another
match, as Bell was not satisfied, and declared that
the right swing that put him out was a mere fluke.
Also a doctor arose and hurled the Saratoga trunk of
contumely on the management of the affair. He
declared that Bell was unfit to go into the ring
owing to an affection of the nose which made it
possible to breathe through the mouth only. Also,
he was suffering from neuritis of the ear, and to
deaden the agony and make it possible for Bell to
fight he had injected cocaine. This rather throws
clods and slush on the remarks above in re inability
to keep up the tail —but this paper never lies.
Neither does it use bad language, so it will not
express its opinion of the management which allowed
12,0f)0 people to pay their good brass at the gates
of the Olympia to see a man fight under the
influence of cocaine. On second thoughts, it might
be a good idea for boxers to get cocaine injected into
the point of the jaw. The experiment is worth
trying.
Over 15,000 people crowded into Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night, to watch the long-looked-
for battle between Jimmy Clabby and Eddie
McGoorty. Clabby wore dinky trunks of most
emerald green, and what part of McGoorty was not
naked was encased in brilliant red. At 2 p.m.
the stales had declared Clabby to be list, ljlb.,
while McGoorty kicked the beam at list. 61b. But;
in the ring McGoorty looked nearly two stone heavier
and bigger and stronger. Also, he looked like one
of Canova’s boxers. Clabby looked anything else
on earth than a pugilist, and the contest struck one
as being one-sided. But it wasn’t. Had Clabby
shown the same form against Jeff Smith he must
surely have won. Probably it was Smith’s superior
speed that prevented him showing that form.
Where Clabby gets his force from is hard to
imagine, but certainly he has hitting power, and
again and again he stopped McGoorty’s rushes with a
straight left. The only blood drawn during the
combat was what oozed from McGoorty’s mouth after
Clabby’s left, swung from afar, in the fifth round,
had fallen on the gateway of beer, potatoes, beef, cab-
bage, tea and other viands. Otherwise it was a
well-conducted scrap without signs of damage, and
what McGoorty smiles with wasn’t badly wrecked
after all. McGoorty smashed hard all the time, it
comes natural to him ; but Clabby put steam behind
his wallops only occasionally. Clabby was as tricky
as a bag of cats and other females, and though he
evaded some awful blows, he stopped a good many
and demonstrated to a startled audience that he has
an appetite for punishment. He took some terrific
swings apparently unruffled, but it was obvious that
the number he could assimilate must be very limited,
lie bounded round the ring like a rubber ball, and
made McGoorty miss by anything up to- 1000yds.
And then the scene would change and it would be
McGoorty slithering this way and that to avoid an
attack, and hunted for his life, and then lie would
make Clabby miss by a mile. Curiously enough,
it was the smaller man who scored most in the close
fighting, where he uppercut and looped the loop
to McGoorty’s mouth and chin in a surprising plan-
ner. Clabby would race round the landscape to lure
McGoorty into a rushing pursuit, with a view to
suddenly swinging round and meeting the rush with
a counter that would have disarranged an elephant.
But McGoorty was too old a bird to be caught more
tli'an once bv that chaff.
Clabby started brilliantly and gave a splendid
exhibition of skill over sunerior force—or what
looked like superior force. But as the battle went
on it became apparent he was feeling the strain. In
the sixth round the solid-fighting McGoorty all but
got him with a left hook followed by a right chop ;
but Clabby came in off the ropes and uppercut so
viciously 'that McGoorty clinched. The superior
strength of McGoorty enabled him to press his at-
tacks and to sustain his speed. In the seventh
Clabbv made a splendid effort, and charmed the
house with his gallant display, but when he went to
his corner this recording angel is under the impres-
sion that McGoorty was ahead on points. In the
eighth and last round McGoorty came out and at-
tacked with splendid vim. Clabby retreated before
the fury of his onset, and in a wild rush in pursuit
McGoorty landed somewhat low. Clabbv protested,
but was'ordered to box on. McGoorty became in a
hurry. He seemed to have an appointment. He
evidently felt that Clabby’s strength was waning.
He hit from every angle and sent Clabby against the
ropes. There was a sort of whirlpool, and McGoorty,
leaving his jaw uncovered,, swung his left for the
solar plexus.' Clabby fortified himself with Ins
right while he swung the left for McGoorty s chin.
But the blow was not turned aside. It was sent
low. and Clabbv’s swing never landed. With a
muffled remark Clabby staggered back, fell on th»
floor and rolled over. That he had been fouled
was bevond nuestion, but it was purely accidental.
Next moment McGoorty found himself disqualified.
He was struck off the rolls. Clabby was lifted up
and helped from the ring. McGoorty was broken-
hearted. He rushed to pick his opponent up, lint
the referee waved him back. He tried to explain
to the audience, but the audience barked at bun
And then he bowed his head and followed Clabby
from the ring, a pathetic figure. His luck was
out.
(Continued on vofie 86.)


Increase Your Strength
by My Postal Course.
In the privacy of your own room you may
quickly improve your health and increase
your strength.
My Health and Strength Exercises have
'von unstinted praise throughout Australasia
for their thoroughness, and the wonderful
results they have secured.
Read these letters:—-
“I feel splendid, never felt better in
all my life. Thanking you for the good
your Course has done me. —‘C.W.E.,’
Mainland, N.S.IV.”
“I have put on over a stone in weight
since I began your course. —‘J.R.B.d
North Unley, S.A.”
That will give you an idea of how much
you can benefit. I’ve just added a number
of new exercises to my Course —exercises
which were discussed and demonstrated dur-
ing my conferences early this year with MAX
MULLER, the celebrated Danish Physical
Culturist; with the GREAT EUGENE
SANDOW ; and with BERNARR McFADDEN,
the leading American exponent of Physical
Culture.
Tf'hese new exercises are the latest and best
work of modern progressive specialists in
development of body, and ridding it of the
ills brought about by neglect. They’ve been
thoroughly tested in Europe and America, and
are getting wonderful results. Why not share
in these benefits, also?
we**--
ff
JC
You ought to write for further information and fees, for my POSTAL COURSE OP
HEALTH EXERCISES. A 48-page interesting booklet, entitled “HEALTH AND STRENGTH
FROM SELF-CULTURE,’’ will be sent you. Write now, sending three penny stamps for
postage.
RE.G. L.
(“Snowy”)
BARER
343 Belmont Buildings, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Autumn Gold
—a Virginia Cigarette of RARE
quality for those who insist upon hav-
ing the BEST. There is nothing
better in Virginia Cigarettes than
Actual Size.
Autumn Cold.
They are manufactured by
W. D. and H. O. Wills, of
Bristol, England, from the
vei'y finest of specially
selected Virginia leaves.
Put up in hermetically-
sealed vacuum tins, which
keep them in perfect condi-
tion.
Plain or 22ct. Gold-tipped,
4/- per tin of 50, or 75/-
per 1000.
Postage extra: 100, N.S.W.,
Gd.; Inter-State, Sd.
Write for a free copy of my
Catalog, “A Discriminating
Smoker’s Guide.”
A. M. SOLOMON,
“ CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“SHELL” again
in the
Petrol Consumption Test
held on 30/5/’l4 from
Sydney to Katoomba.
FIRST FOUR PLACES
secured on
“SHELL”
BENZINE.
Freedom, Ease & Comfort
THE
WELMAR
SHIRT
Pat. 1274 24/5/11.
Stocked by
Leading Mercers
- and
Outfitters
m
Manufactured by ■
WELCH, MARGETSON& Co.
PTY. LTD.
APPEARANCE.
m
The stylish, dressy appearance will probably
first attract you to the liigney Footwear.
Your satisfaction at the accurate fit, and
comfortable feeling it gives your feet, will
induce you to buy it.
The extra quality which will reveal itself
after long wear will appeal to your sense
of economy, ;fnd you will become a perman-
ent wearer of liigney Footwear.
The illustration is a Tan Willow Calf, Three-
button Shoe. Smart American shape, Brown
Cloth Insertion Tops, “Non-Tread-Oyer”
Brand. Best English Manufacture.
Price 32/6.
Also in Patent Leather, 32/6 and 35/-
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a Copy of our Catalog,
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Building's, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
99
“ Yes, Sir!
IiYPOL Means Health.
m
i':
rimr
<JiL
KS’
&
s&>
Pv^f
I
:
m
“HYPO Iv,** the Famous Emulsion for
Chest Complaints and Wasting Disorders.
Write
terns of our
Special of
>f '^Nv
“ Albion
/. I. : - -mx I I
!ft\
All-Wool an<
unequalled’, in
—£ach pattern
ofart-weavin g
and Browns
Wf
’The Purchase
r.itv
r %n
: Biggest Single <
.Deal-bver made’fin Australian Tweeds by-aj
?Victqr?an Tailoring,Firth,' Because,we bought-
kg ; we bought at
" ' . and we are NOW.enabled to offer y^|
% -The Tailoriog Df the Garments-, -tfe C^kk 0 '
Workmanship, inside and but, comes,/ fM
’V under jrur. famous Guarantee .that “. We /will' ||lvS,
’ Refund Money in full if we:Fail to Satisfy.” /if %
:$ Suit wUl,;bb finished .withifi' Six, days from 1
of' Order. &; to!, your
‘ Freight ..Paid' \jim 4 ' V'
mMWM !
,'// Samples, with our New Cataiog,
V are Gratis and Post Free.
The Offer is for a Limited Period Only.
Write To-dasr
Lincoln, Stuart * c i
“Outfitters by Mail,”
244-254 Flinders St., Melbourne.
ft>
I/'X
-
i)\
m A
s \*
-. mim.
1 ' ■■ . *
- I
‘
. mm 11
• „. . ■
■ ,
■
ii


Q ,
v'4
WeaKly
Children
If you only knew how
SCOTT’S Emulsion brings
health and strength to weak-
ly children, you would never
be without it in your home.
Children love this creamy
strength-maker which pro-
vides the exact nutriment
for growing muscles, tissues
m
TRADE MARK.
and bones at
the same time
that it promotes
strength to pro-
tect against
wasting disor-
ders, coughs,
colds, whooping-
cough, teething
troubles and
rickets. Give
yourself the
pleasure of
watching your children grow
sturdy and strong on genuine
scons
Emulsion
which has, indeed, saved the
lives of millions of weakly
children.
A Free Trial Supply of
ANTINEURASTHIN
The only known effective remedy for nervous break*
down or exhaustion, will be sent to any address in
Australia on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover cost
of postage. Antineurasthin is a
NERVE AND BRAIN FOOD.
It cures by, feeding the brain and nerve cells with
their natural food element, Lecithin, in an active
organic state, and is the only known means of effec-
tively doing this. Its value is fully demonstrated
by its rapid and permanent effect upon the nervous
system and health generally; sound, natural sleep,
improved digestion, power of application to work,
concentration of thought, and sound, vigorous men-
tality.
Send full address, with 2d. in stamps, to cover
postage, to the Wholesale Distributor for Australia,
11. Al Goddard, No. 3 Australasia Chambers, 406-414
Queen St., Brisbane, or Branches: 194 Vickery’s
Chambers, 82 Pitt St., Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit
Buildings, Queeri St., Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s
Buildings, Cliff St., Fremantle; 213 Smeeton’s Build-
ings, Queen St., Auckland.
Serial No. 810. —Guaranteed under the Pure Foods
Act of New South Wales, by H. A. Goddard, Sydney,
to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure Lecithin.
No. 810.
i'iON
AIiCUM
OWDER
ggi
>\vv
Don’t Throw
Away Your
Williams’
Talc. Tins.
Post four empty
tins (any odor)
to the J. B.
Williams Co.,
Box 98, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and we
will send you
without charge
Williams’
exquisite Silver-
plated Vanity
Box, with
Powder
Puff and
Concentra-
ting Mir-
Iror, exact-
ly like il-
lustration.
You Will Be Astonished
How It Removes Wrinßles.
TOILET TALKS.
SIMPLICITY is the order of the day as
regards beauty culture. Many women
regularly visit the specialist to have their
wrinkles ironed out with the help of hot
applications, cold creams and massage.
Most of us realise that there comes a time
when no amount of persuasion of this sort
will avail. This process of “wrinkle remov-
ing” is wrong in principle. Both
the hot water and the massag-
ing tend to expand and loosen
the skin, besides softening the
muscular foundation. The very
opposite result should be aimed
at. The tissue should be strength-
ened and the skin tightened to
smooth out the wrinkles. For
this purpose ordinary parsidium
jelly, obtainable at all chemists,
may be used with beneficial
effects. Get about one shilling’s-
worth and apply like cold cream.
The face will quickly look years
younger.
IT is astonishing the number of women
whose faces show a more or less pro-
nounced growth of superfluous hair, and it
is much to be regretted that through ignor-
ance, or wrong treatment, the majority of
them have made matters considerably worse
by causing the hairs to grow more quickly
and stronger than before. It only requires
a little thought to realise the folly of it all.
Removing the surface growth for a few days
may give temporary relief, but in order to
obtain permanent results the hair roots
must be killed. Caustic depilatories are
worse than useless, and on no account
m
should the hairs be pulled out. Apart from
the electric needle, which is a costly and
painful process, any chemist will tell you
that the most reliable home treatment is
pure powdered pheminol. This substance
has a devitalising effect upon the hair roots,
in addition to which it removes all trace of
the objectionable hair in a few seconds. The
recommended treatment gradu-
ally, but surely, dissolves out the
hair follicles, which is the only
method of permanently ridding
oneself of this embarrassing
disfigurement.
HOW often do you see one
of the old-fashioned pow-
der pots on your friend’s dress-
ing table? Not very frequently,
I am sure. They are fast being
converted to a more useful pur-
pose. The truth of the matter
is, women are at last beginning
to realise that powder is the
“root of all evil” as far as their
complexions are concerned, at any rate, and
are wisely discarding the powder puff
for that ordinary, innocent-looking sub-
stance known as cleminite. What they
do is to obtain about an ounce from
their chemist and dissolve it in four table-
spoonfuls of water. This gives a lotion
which immediately imparts a delightful
bloomy appearance to the skin; removes that
horrid greasy appearance, and renders pow-
dering quite unnecessary. The result lasts
all day long under the most trying condi-
tions, and what is far more important, im-
proves the complexion instead of ruining it. !"•>
5?
Texend
i BRACES
For Men who know
Quality, Comfort, Style
At first class shops ,
31-
m
THEY are called “Bostock Gold Medal Shoes”
in most stores. The great reputation they
enjoy to-day throughout Australasia has been
won by sincerity of manufacture. Honest through
and through, they prove in wear to be as good as
they look. Under their beautiful finish are always
found the choicest of materials; and, whether on
the foot or in the hand, the skilful work, con-
spicuous in every pair, never fails to command
one’s admiration.
Bostocks are the cream of imported shoes.
Special shipments have recently arrived at the
leading stores, and ladies should call before the
choicest styles are sold.
m
■
r
Style 604
803
For •' 5
WOOD
METAL
1 he Fdeal Paint
for Indoor or
Outdoor Work.
Withstands the ravages of Climate.
PIPOLIN
PAINT
RIPOLIN. Ltd., 35. Minories. London. England.
Agents :
li. A. COBMACK,
Moorfoot Buildings,
5 Parker Street,
SYDNEY.
>gT ONE
CEMENT
ETC.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated 'Waters and. Cordials.
About Some Fine Legislative Points.
“T.F.M.” on the ethics of barracking:—
Apropos the cry of the Argus and other Fat parties
that it is disgraceful of Labor barrackers to drag the
umpire into the “dirty puddle” made by Joe Cook
and Irvine, it is interesting to recall a case or two.
Some 50 years back, when the Victorian House of
Fat Landlords rejected an Appropriation Bill, and
Governor Darling, in the complications that ensued,
religiously followed the advice of his constitutional
advisers (of whom one George Higinbotham was the
chief), the Fats, who hated Higinbotham, didn’t hesi-
tate to drag the umpire into the turmoil. On the
contrary, the rage of those whom Higinbotham termed
“the wealthy lower orders” was only satiated when
they had made a total wreck of Darling’s official
career. Indeed, some of them were not satisfied even
then, for after they had succeeded in ruining Darling,
they vented their spleen on his wife. Yet it can be
affirmed f 1) that Higinbotham and his colleagues had
a substantial majority of the Assembly at their back ;
(2) that public opinion was overwhelmingly in their
favor.
And when the Fat Landlords again rejected an
Appropriation Bill, sent up to them by Graham
Berry in 1878, the then Governor, George Bowen,
was vilified in the same vitriolic way by the same
faction for the same reason. Because he followed
the advice of his constitutional advisers, who had
overwhelming support in the Legislature and the coun-
try, the machinations of “the wealthy lower orders,”
if not quite so successful as in Darling’s case, did at
least succeed in procuring the transportation of
Bowen to the obscurity of Mauritius. Yet in this
case, also, can it be maintained that no ruling given
by Bowen, as umpire, endangered the Constitution in
the slightest degree.
On another aspect of the matter. On June 24,
1880, the Service Ministry was defeated in the
Assembly on a Constitutional Reform Bill. Next
day Parliament was prorogued for a week, and a
formal request for a dissolution was sent by Service
to the Governor. The request was granted, and
two days later (June 29) the respective “reasons”
of Service and the Governor (Normanby) were, by
the latter’s direction, published in a Gazette Ex-
traordinary “for general information.” Twelve
months later,. Graham Berry being then in power,
a hostile motion was carried against his Government
at the instance of O’Loghlen. On this occasion
when Berry asked for a dissolution, Normanby
refused it, but again he gave his reasons the fullest
publicity. In his official reply to Berry he said,
inter alia, that “if the principle were once admitted
that a Minister had a right to a dissolution whenever
he saw fit to advise one, a vital blow would be
struck at the power, and independence of Parlia-
ment. The Minister would then become the master
of Parliament, and the knowledge that a vote against
the Government might terminate its existence would
act as a constant drag upon the independence of
Parliament, and the exercise of that supervision over
the actions of the Government which it is its duty
and right to exercise.”
Normanby was reputed to be a crass Tory; but
even a crass Tory had more respect for the rights
of Parliament and the people than the “Liberal”
Ministers of to-dav who. while they yell “We trust
the people,” take good care to keep the people in the
dark.
Melbourne’s Harbor Trust is up against
trouble once more. The Naval Board has
intimated that unless better accommodation
is provided in Port Phillip, the future visits
of the flagship Australia—which at present
has to anchor some distance down the bay
—will be adversely affected. The Trust’s
only resource is to ask the naval authorities
how much dirt it will have to dig up to
provide a suitable berth for the flagship.
Melbourne’s struggles to scratch away
enough dirt to keep the sea-traffic away
from other Victorian ports where Nature
has done all the necessary scratching
becomes pathetic.
“Croson’s” Tale of Slumber: —
Two years ago the Melbourne Harbor Trust asked
the ViC. Railway Commissioners their intentions as
to railway facilities for the then proposed new pier
in Victoria Dock. The Commissioners acknowledged
the inquiry, and fell asleep. The Trust also slept, but
awoke in February last and asked the railway bosses
to get busy, as the pier was under way. The Railway
Department regretted its oversight of the matter, and
would attend to it at once —and fell asleep some
more. Railways Minister Maekinnon has been prodded
and has promised to “call for a report,” but appar-
ently he hasn’t yelled loud enough, as nothing gets
any further ahead. In any case, Victoria’s Railway
Minister is a joke or a mere figurehead, as the Com-
missioners do as they think, and concern themselves
about no Minister or Government.
From the Oldest Inhabitant:—
Some old-Sydney buildings in what is now Dalley-
street, and formerly was Queen’s-place, are to go to
the hammer, and thence no doubt to the knacker.
These old-timers were built in the ’3o’s, and are to-
day as they were then, not a brick or stone being
altered. They form the quaintest bit of old Sydney
now left. The first time they were offered for sale
was at Sam Lyons’s auction rooms as far back as
March 2, 1835. They were described as “12 new
brick dwelling houses, counting houses and spacious
vaults.” The houses then were side-on to the Tank
Stream, “over which the new line of Pitt-street is
proposed to be carried to the intended quay behind
Macquarie-place.” The property brought £5OO a
year in those days. Four of these old cottages front
Dalley-street and eight others form Queen’s Court.
In one of them Henry Parkes lived while he was
working at Russell’s foundry, adjoining, at ss. per
day.
“McNorth”: We have our own way of
doing things in the North. Before the en-
forcement of the Early Closing Act Thurs-
day Island’s main thoroughfare was more or
less illuminated by the lights in the Chow-
storekeepers’ windows. It wasn’t much in
the way of illumination, but it was better
than nothing; and when the children of
Asia were told to close their shops and turn
off their smells at 6 p.m. instead of any old
hour, nervous citizens abroad at night avoided
the footpaths and their lurking shadows and
walked in the centre of the road. Then the
local council got busy and erected a com-
plete electric-light outfit. Arc-lamps were
installed in the highway, the dark places
were flooded with light, large Well,
no, they didn’t illuminate the town by elec-
tricity exactly, but at a council meeting the
motion was carried that representation be
made io have certain provisions of the Early
Closing Act rescinded as far as Thursday
Island is concerned. The idea was to exempt
the storekeepers—mostly Chows —from early-
closing. and thereby gain a cheap light; for
the streets from their windows! Unfortu-
nately for this economical device, Home
Secretary Appel leaped on it with both feet.
THE MAJORITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The proposal of the Maoriland Government to re-
duce the effective vote for national prohibition from
three-fifths of the total poll to 55 per cent, of it will
probably be hailed with satisfaction by the prohibi-
tionists as a good long first step toward a bare
majority , and bv the liquor party with dubious feel-
ings.—Sydney Telegraph.
Even in these degenerate days,
“It’s a poor rule that won’t work both ways.”
We’ve that on good authority:
So, when Cold Tea is at grips with Bung,
The People’s withers will be wrung
By a bare, or a beer, majority!
N.S.w.
BENEDICTINE LEMONADE.


:•»»»»■
sv
A
D
n
r
r
iT?'
o
<5»
When Friend Meets Friend.
The call is for the world-famed Thorne’s —the finest Scotch ever
produced at Glenlivet.
It is pleasing and always acceptable its flavor never varies.
Always ask for it by name, or call for the “Black Square.”
It is a splendid drink —every drop of it tastes good.
THORNE'S
WHISKY


Present
Suggestions
from
FLAVELLE’S
If one should ask one’s
friends which they would
rather have—a past, a
present or a future—they
would generally choose a
present. Why not select it
here?
We have such a wide variety of appro-
priate and acceptable Gift Articles that
we know you can find “just the thing”
for many of your friends, and the prices
are so low that you’ll be obliged to spend
much less than you expect.
SILVERWARE
SUGGESTIONS.
The Latest Idea —Best quality E.P.N.S.
Asparagus Dish, with Sauce Boat and
Server (as illustrated). Price £4.
Very Handsome Solid E.P.N.S. As-
paragus Dish, quite plain, with Sauce Boat.
Price £3/15/-
Useful Size All E.P.N.S. Asparagus
Holder, 24/-
Best quality Electro-plated Asparagus
Server, 15/-
S7XSSS
’MS
Newest Design Oval E.P.N.S. Entree
Dish, with handle at either end, beaded edge
(as illustration), £3/7/-
Large Size Ornate Oval E.P.N.S. Entree
Dish, with Screw Handle —gadron edge—extra
strong. Price £4.
Best Quality Electro-plated Oblong Entree
Dish, new design, with handle at each end,
beaded edge, £3/3/6.
Very Neat, Good Quality Oval Entree Dish,
with handle to unscrew —beaded edge. Price
£2/7/-
Quite Plain, Solid E.P.N.S. Circular
Vegetable Dish, with two divisions,
£3/10/-
Very Dainty Size, Best Electro-plated
Muffin Dish, quite plain design. £2/9/6.
mm
I Very Handsome, perfectly plain Solid
E.P.N.S. Soup Tureen, With ladle (as
illustrated), £4/7/-
Extra Heavy, Large Size, Very Handsome, Best
Quality Electro-plated Soup Tureen,
Adams design, £6/13/6.
Useful Size. AH E.P.N.S. Gravy Dish, on
Tray, beaded edge, £l/17/-
Very Neat. Quite Plain Eleotro-plated
Gravy Boat, without trav. Price 18/6.
MAIL ORDERS. —Any of the above articles
forwarded by post to any address. We Day
prompt and careful attention to all Mail Orders
and Guarantee Satisfaction.
Flavelle, Roberts 8
Sankey, Ltd.,
150 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE.
And at ROCKHAMPTON & LISMORE
Established 1847.
Allcock^
Plasters
Eagle Mark.
The World's Greatest
External Remedy.
m
m
Pains in the Back
Allcock's Plasters have no equal.
Strengthen Weak Backs
as nothing else can.
Pains in the Side
Allcock's Plasters relieve promptly
and at the same time
strengthen side and restore energy.
Allcocks is the original and genuine porous plaster.
It is a standard remedy, sold by chemists in every part
of the civilized world. Apply wherever there is Pain.
When you need a Pill
TAKE A BrandretKs Pill
Purely Vegetable*
(Est. 1752.)
For Constipation, Biliousness, Headache, Dizziness, Indigestion, Etc.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CO., Birkenhead, England.
SHEAR WITH THE FAMOUS
FALKINER ELEC ™ C EQUIPMENT
Invented by a practical Australian Pastoralist, it will be found the
FALKINER ELECTRIC SHEEP SHEARING Machine combines
many striking advantages, of which the following are a few: —
m
mm
m
(1) It is easy to erect.
(2) Entire absence of trouble-
some line shafting.
(3) Independent motor for each
man.
(4) Electric power available for
shed lighting.
(5) The patent universal joint
enables the shearer to
work with ease and com-
fort.
(6) Any hand piece may be
used.
(7) Silent running and practi-
cally no v bration.
(O' No special type of shed
necessaiy-the Falkiner
Electric Machine will fit
any shed, old or new.
(9) Electricity is the safest,
cheapest and cleanest
power I
This machine, which has been patented all over
the world, stands unique in design, simple in con-
struction, and unequa'led in small consumption of
power. Sheep are shorn at the minimum of cost
and the maximum of efficiency.
Write for full details, also for our illustrated leaflet
dealing with the Electric Lighting of Shearing Sheds.
FALKIN E R
ELECTRIC COY.
103-5 William St., Melbourne, and Somerset House, 5 Moore St., Sydney
m
v*
*>
The.
New Wav
Cash’s Woven Names
AVOID the inconvenient pen and ink method and mark your
linen and clothing (handkerchiefs, shirts especially ) by using
CASH’S Names. These names or initials are woven in Turkey Red
Lettering (several styles) on Fine Cambric tape. They
NEVER come off—NEVER wash out—NEVER fade.
Obtainable ALL DRAPERS AND CLOTHIERS.
on the box. Write for
'Samples to J. & J. Cash Ltd.
246-250 Flinders Lane, Melbourne^
Your Name
m
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
For dispelling that tired feeling—for building up debili-
tated and depleted energies—take Horlick’s. Horlick’s
Malted Milk is the Ideal Food-Drink and is made
in a moment with the addition of water only.
TRY IT AT THE SODA FOUNTAIN
h;
©
*
**Tsni*L*r
2-»w»T«»*n
Pre-eminent
as the Queen of Dress Fabrics is the
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day—
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L'o'U*l*S
The South African Cricket Association
accepted without comment the Australian XI chosen
by the Board of Control for the next set of tri-
angular matches. It was a team not altogether un-
expected, although there was a howl that it was not
first-class—said howl let loose by a few pessimists
who got a nightmare over the dropping of some
alleged ‘‘hig dogs.” The S’African Association, which
is supplying the £2OO guaranteed each player, has
the right to reject the team if it is not up to the
Association’s taste. And, apparently, it was with the
view of bringing about such an objection that the
riot was raised. But the S’African body, very sen-
sibly, did not bite, and apparently reckoned that
the Australian selection committee knew its work
and its men. The team will depart for Afric's sunny
fountains and golden sands in October (not Novem-
ber, as previously arranged), and it will wander round
the Dark Continent for oh months.
* * *
The Australian Rules Footballers in Syd-
ney are burnishing up the house for the biggest
kick-up in the game the Ma Capital has ever known.
Inter-State teams from Queensland, Victoria, Tas-
mania, South Australia and even faraway Westralia
will blow along in quest of the All-Australian Foot-
ball Championship during August, and great will be
the dust raised.
* * * *
One of the final kicks of the Cook
Government is a grant of £lOOO to assist a handful
of athletes to hie unto Berlin to take part in the
next Olympiad. Considering how badly money is
required to provide new rifle ranges in Australia, on
which potential defenders may qualify for our Arma-
geddon, this looks like ridiculous waste. Out on
the Randwick (Sydney) Range on Saturday there
was some fine shooting; but there was not nearly
enough space to accommodate all the would-be
shooters. Sergeant Holdaway banged 32 consecutive
bull's-eyes and T. Rowland amassed 22. Over a
dozen put up “possibles,” and when one thinks of the
damage 1000 men like these might do to an invading
force, it seems a pity to spend money on Olympiads
abroad.
* * * *
At one of John Wren’s mixed race-meet-
ings at Ascot (Melb.) the other day occurred a
rather staggering instance of autocratic management.
Grape Vine was backed very heavily for the Third
Division Handicap, but when the “good tiling” was
lining up for the start it sprang into the barrier and
fell dead. According to orthodox rules of racing the
gee was in the starter’s hands (the barrier being
down), and all bets should have held good. At
Randwick or Flemington the dead horse would have
counted as one left at the post. Grape Vine was
practically a starter who went the long, long journey
on his own. His backers would have lost their money
at any meeting where V.R.C. rules operate. But
Wren evidently didn’t wish Grape Vine’s backers to
lose their money, or the books who had been fielding
heavily against other nags to lose their money. So
he ordered all the surviving candidates to return to
the weighing enclosure, whilst the books were
ordered to return all the money they had received
and start betting afresh. When the delayed race
came to pass an outsider got home, which, of course,
was satisfactory to all parties. The books won, and
the punters who had got longer odds about Grape
Vine’s nearest rivals in the betting than they got
when Grape Vine was out of the market had nothing
to complain of.
* * * *
Maoriland toeball is howling for more
referees —three to control each match. Also, toeball
wants the tw r o touch-line umpires, instead of being any
old woman, to be officials appointed by the union and,
with the referee, to constitute a glorified Rugby
trinity. This is sound sense. Present scribe saw
two important matches in Dunedin (M.L.) recently,
one of which was won by a try that was never scored,
and another lost because a brilliant and perfectly
fair score was ignored by the referee. In neither
case was the worried official to blame, the movement
being entirely unexpected, and the result of a sud-
den flash of brilliance and speed, which his Honor
had no earthly chance of getting up to see. Both
touch line judges, however, were in a position to
know, and did know, the exact truth. So, why
shouldn’t these two men be deputed to watch scor-
ing, etc., and give their opinions when necessity
arises, and so help the referee who, especially in the
Borrowing Isles, generally has his hands more than
full dealing with illegal tactics? It would tend to
do away with a lot of bad mistakes, and would inci-
dentally tend towards a cleaner game. A clever
trickster, working the blind side of the scrum, can
get in his deadly work unseen by one referee, but he
would have a hot time if there were three to dodge.
* * * *
The Football League in Adelaide, having
got its benevolent despot of a president, Cleland,
K.C., back from London, is talking seriously to
players who are anything but the perfect gentleman
on the field. Disqualifications have been handed out
for “having attempted to strike another player,” for
“having disputed decisions of the umpire,” and
“having indulged in unnecessarily rough play” (“in-
dulged” is a good word). One hardened villain was
reported for “having sneered at a steward” appointed
to watch for anything undesirable. But he made
haste to apologise, so he was not needlessly beheaded
in the backyard.
Maoriland Amateur Athletic Association
is jumping with all its feet on the open-order system
of selecting trophies. Recently it was asked to part
up for a set of false teeth, a quantity of nails and
a hammer, and a razor hone, these goods having been
selected as prizes by three different winners who •
had been handed open orders and urged to go forth
and spend the cash as their fancy dictated. The
Association is now reminding all and sundry that
false teeth and packets of nails aren’t trophies within
the- meaning of the Act, or words to that effect.
That Tourist Trophy Contest in the Isle
of Man on June 11 must have been indeed strenuous.
The world's best cars were there to the number
of 23 —and only six finished. Talk about elimina-
tion of the unfit! ! ! Many of the leading makers
entered teams of three cars—and only one team
survived. That was the Minerva, and the units
finished second, third and fifth. All the other teams
were burst before 150 miles had been covered. These
three Minerva machines wore Dunlop tyres, and were
fitted with the Knight Sleeve Valve engines, and the
result proves fairly conclusively that for sustained
strenuous work the engine with the sleeve valve is
the thing. Australian military authorities please
note.
The stake of the Maoriland Trotting Cup,
to be competed for at the Metropolitan Club’s big
meeting at Christchurch in November, has been
raised from 2000 to 2500 sovs. The first horse will
get 1500 sovs., and the remaining 1000 sovs. are to
be cut amongst the next three. The Metropolitan
Club, the most prominent light-harness horse con-
cern in M.L., is booked to scatter no less than
£10,040 in stakes spread over the three days of the
big November meeting. For the size of the
figure the commission collected on the money
passing through the tote is mainly responsible.
The abolition of the raucous bookmaker may put
the horseowner on a bad wicket so far as getting
early bets are concerned; on the other hand, the
arrival of the totalisator puts solid thousands in his
pocket in stake-money when he wins.
The pastime of looping the loop isn’t so
prevalent amongst airmen as some people imagine.
Out of the thousands of human birds that climb
skyward daily in all parts of the planet, recent
statistics show that only 43 have so far done the
trick. France claims 26 of them, Fogland five, Uncle
Samland one, Russia two, Italy two, Peru one, Para-
guay one. and there are five whose addresses seem
to have been lost. Each of the performers risked
his neck in a French machine, which is some advt.
for the aeroplane builders of a country with a sinister
reputation as regards necks.


bo,®o Volts
JO o ■JO’"'* ~J J S* J lit?
Notable High Voltag
G-E Transformers
!' b
Kv-a.
per Unit;
5833 -
4500 '
3000
3750 ‘J. ,
9375
3500
300 1 §i*
625 -i'
750 1
1250 ;;
3333
1000 '
2500
9000 1
5000
3350. ■’ ;v j
2233
1000 >
6250
2400
1200
3000
1000
2500
1000
2750
3333
14000
10000
3333
Units per
jfe.r h.t^
Volta £:
150,0(30
i; iso.oOb
140,000
138,000
i20,00p
.■ 120, o'6b
K 115,003
Cycles
Installation
50
50
12
15
60
60
60
60
a
60
:
tm
4
60
25,5
34
25
17,560 i
50,000 j
12,000*
80,000,
108,000
20,0dd
43,000
27.000'
4,000'
37.500
14.500
30,000
27,006'
18.000
10,000 s
3,000.
11,006
40.000
28,000
60,000
47.000
■i i io.oop
• i 10.000
110,000
110,000
110,000
rS
25
15
60
60
12
12
60
25
12
25
110,000
25
13
104,000
60
12
60
' 103,900
102,000
; 102,00 b
■ . 101.20 P
|.p01,200
§ 100,09 b
60
60
30
60
60
18
60
0
60
00,060
60
100,0
M)0,0
50
12
60
,00 b
60
o.ofo
14
60
W-iIvOJWJ Jt>
3 j J.
m
smission
npHE General Electric
* Company’s production
of transformers for voltages
of 100,000 or higher is a
striking evidence of the
success of high voltage
transmission.
The accompanying list of
transformers aggregates
nearly a million Kv=a capa-
city. The transformers
alone, disregarding appur-
tenances and transmission
equipment, represent an
investment of such magni-
tude as to indicate excep-
tional confidence in trans-
mission at such high
voltages.
confidence is
* spired by the successful
performance of numerous
high voltage transformers
under severe service con-
ditions.
Approximately 85 per
cent, of all the transformers
in the United States of
America, operating at volt-
ages of 100,000 or higher
were built by the General
Electric Company, which
possesses the largest and
best equipped transformer
factory in the world.
Write for Bulletin
Number 4938.
Melbourne
e> JLlttle Collins Sts
Cor
ueen
dnc
Street
SIT Clarence
The Big Chief
represents the very latest in
OIL ENGINES,
and intending Buyers would do well to inspect same before placing their orders elsewhere.
m
Made to our own specification from the very best materials, the “BIG CHIEF,
is without a rival for both " •- - :
QUALITY and PRICE.
These Engines are hopper cooled and fitted with Wizard Magneto and regular Pulley, Extended Crank Shaft,
for Kerosene as well as Benzine ; Tools, and all usual accessories.
POSITIVELY A HANDSOME PAYING PROPOSITION for FARM, STATION or FACTORY
Send for Catalog giving full particulars, including A FIVE YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
EXCEPTIONALLY LIBERAL TERMS, or Discount for Cash.
R. L. SCRUTTON ©. CO. LTD.,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
“WHERE THE BEST- ENGINES ARE SOLD.”


Shipping.
P, and O* BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
♦Twin Screw. AU Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSiIIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson k Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills k Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINB
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
ORMONDE .. Geared Turbine
ORAMA
ORVIETO
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA .
ORONTKS .
OMR AII
.Triple-Screw,
.Twin-Screw .
15,000 Regd. Tons.
13,000 „ „
12,130 „
12,129 ,-, „
12,124 „
12,077 „
12,036 „
9,023 ~
8,252
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, witli
bedsteads; Single Perth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Brack, Sydnkv.
Banking, Public' Companies, &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOOSE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
DEPOSIT YOUR SURPLUS MONEY
in this Bank, where it will earn INTEREST
at 3i% on the first £2OO, and 3% on the
excess to £5OO, and be REPAYABLE ON
DEMAND when you require it.
Deposits Received 'from Is.
MONEY TO LEND ON MORTGAGE
at Low Interest to Farmers and Settlers and .
on Approved City and Suburban Freeholds.
This Bank has No Agencies at Post Offices.
Represented in the State by 125 Branches
and over 500 Asrencies.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £382,500.
Directors: lion. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
Hon. ROBERT PIIILP, M.L.A. ; lion. A. J.
TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office; Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 242 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian gank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. ..£2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED .. .. ..£1,198,534
PAID-UP (31st Dec., 1913) .. ..£1,195,446
RESERVE FUND . £35,000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE —2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon,
Esq.; Arthur S. Barton, Esq. ; Frank N.
Yarwood, Esq.; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital __ ; 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ~ .. .. “.. -T54.000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. TV. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE . , . . BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
fhe Colonial, fjjutuai [iie
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness And Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS BTREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,446,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction 'as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South TVai.es:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY. '
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, 'K.C.. M.P.
A ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary
Shipping.
ORDDEUTSCHEU LLOYD, N.D.L.
IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS,
To COLOMBO, SUEZ. NAPLES, GENOA, ALGIERS,
SOUTHAMPTON (for London), ANTWERP & BREMEN.
♦Accelerated S.ervice.
Largest steamers visiting Australia via Suez Canal.
All steamers with Wireless Telegraphy and Laundry.
First- and SeeondrClass Cabins installed with Electric
Fans. For full particulars and illustrated pamphlets
apply to LOHMANN & CO., 5 Bridge Street.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
Steamers sail as under (circumstances permitting).
And every 2S days thereafter.
The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
“Cabins de luxe, with private bath,- etc
tOne, two and three-berth rooms.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 2 days at Wellington and 24 hours
at Papeete —“ The Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
m
Twin and Triple-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, about AUG. 15.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, about SEPT. 5.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, about SEPT. 26.
vessel in Australian trade.
Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Fares—Capetown or Durban, £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 oto 30 0 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from .. .. 25 5 0
Melbourne ~ .. .. . . 110 0
PAMPHLETS AND ALL INFORMATION ON APPLI-
CATION. Luggage Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting):—
SYDNEY >
BRISBANE
BOCK HAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
•CAIRNS
(•Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).,
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney July 11.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
’ Leaves Melbourne July 15.
Leaves Sidney July 18.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne July 22.
Leaves Sydney July 25.
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. anil W.A. ports).
SOUTH.
CANBERRA. (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney July 11.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney July 18.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
WINTER TOURS
TO THE NEW HEBRIDES
ilk
m:
via Lord Howe &, Norfolß Islands.
A Voyage Replete with Novel Sights,
Beautiful Scenery and Curious People.
One of the longest, most enjoyable and
inexpensive Island Holiday Trips ever
devised.
53 DAYS’ TOUR FOR *.25.
Send for our special Leaflet describing this most interesting cruise.
BURNS* PHILP & CO. LTD
Bridge Street, Sydney. William Street,
Melbourne. Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
•SHOT.rwjnci
r
£3,500,000
£2,450,000
£3,500,000
£9,450.000
The Hon. Sir Charles IC. MacKellar, lit., M.L.C.,
President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The lion. Sir Normand MacLaurin, lit., M.L.C.
The lion. James T. Walker
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Ueginald J. Black, M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Alfred George Milson, Esq.; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office— George St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedlo St., E.C.
340 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, l’apua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,976,168 15 0
Reserve Fund ~ . . 1,650,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,656,168 15 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq.. . .. Chairman,
lion. H. E. Rater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman,
lion. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: E. S. Cate, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibds.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector: !
11. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
gank of Dew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET,
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £1,000,000
Preference Shares .. . . .. 600,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up . . . . .. . . . . 500,000
Uncalled Capital .. . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS ZtfwS'fS m.
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ~£544,654 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 156,136 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 78,500 0 0
£779,291 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
26 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Brice 6d.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers, 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
T he “ lrol, g h tr ‘P to England can be accomplished
m 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE,
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and'S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
"I" HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon oh
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
mm
E. BURNHAM’S
Celebrated KALOS
Toilet Preparations
Kalos Skin Rejuvenator (Skin Food)
prevents wrinkles.
Kalos Fairy Fluff Face Fowder, deli-
cate and adhesive.
Kalos Chin Mask reduces double chin and supports
sagging muscles.
Kalos Perfumes and Toilet Waters, "Blue Violets”,
“Lily of the Valley”, "Lilac”, etc.
Write for Free Booklet, “Beauty’s Charm’!
Attractive offer to representative
dealers throughout the world.
E. BURNHAM
Established 1871
G 138-140 N. State St. Chicago, U. S. A.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIBIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
IT.S.S. WANDILLA(SOOO
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
Aug. 1 and Aug. 29.
I (Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
I Steerage Passengers.)
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
GRANTALA, July 11.
MARLOO, July IS.
WARILDA (B<JOO tons'),
J ulj’ 25 and August 22.
Wireless Telegraphy.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO., LTD..
Agents, G BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
*Triple-scrcw steamer, fitted with cabins-de-luxe en
suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
First Saloon passengers to Honolulu and points
beyond wishing to break journey at New Zealand ■
may proceed by Intercolonial steamer from Sydney
without extra charge.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street,- Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
STEAM 70 LONDON, LIVERPOOL AND
BRISTOL (Avonmouth).
T.S.S. ARGYLLSHIRE .
12,500 Tons. CAPTAIN CHICKEN.
BRISBANE
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE . .
ADELAIDE
about AUGUST 8, 1914.
„ AUGUST 10, 1914.
„ AUGUST 15, 1914.
„ AUGUST 18, 1914.
FARES TO LONDON—
Saloon, £4O to £45. Third-class, £l6/16/- to £lB/18/-
Saloon Fares from Brisbane, £2 extra.
Third-class, £l/1/- extra.
The Saloon accommodation consists of large two-
berth and family cabins on the upper deck amidships,
including Lounge and Smoke Rooms. Well-lighted
and ventilated Cabins and spacious Decks. Third-class
passengers supplied with fresh provisions from cool
chambers throughout the voyage. Electric Light
throughout. Return- and round-trip tickets issued
via Cape and (or) Suez route. Prepaid passages
arranged. Fitted with Wireless.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to —
BIRT & COMPANY, LIMITED, Sydney.
TURNBULL, MARTIN & CO., Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACIIARN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,
“ Ulimaroa,’
"Rimini,”
“Westralia,”
“Wimmcra,”
“Victoria.”
All o( Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH St ALL NEW ZEALAND FOISTS,
HOB ART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
A.U.S.N.Co.Ltd.
"WINTER TRIPS.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel
bv the A.U.S.N. Line, as this . Company’s steamers
possess all up-to-date arrangements for con-
venience and comfort, making travel safe, easy
and pleasant. After first port of call, First and
Second Saloon Tickets are interchangeable with all
Interstate Companies, also with the Union S.S. Coy.’s
steamers in the Fiji Trade; particulars on applica-
tion. For dates of sailing see Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY,


Hotels. &e.
IflkiiiwPsli
rEORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne*
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria-
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 15/6 per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
m
Made in England. Perfectly
x harmless, indetectable,
\ and guaranteed free
from Nicrate of
Silver and Lead
Suits.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
„ Golden Brown,
r Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/1t
P Directions with every
bottle
MADAME LEIGH
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
0000600000
for a fair dinkum goI
► ...TRY THE... #
HE-ZOH
Accordeons
The World’s Best
35/-, 42/- 63/-
Sole Agent:
LYONS,
Bourkest.,Melb.
Commonwealth
I
m
Bank-Australia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
Open
for all
General Banking' Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
in the
principal
Cable remittances made to, aud drafts drawn on foreign places direct Forpltm hill* . ,
Letters of credit issued to any partof the world. or forwa'Sed for cui?e“ *&“Ku
Lxchauge Business of every descriptiou transacted withiu the Commonwealth. United Kingdom and abroad
Current accounts opened, interest paid on fixed deposits. Advances made agkinst
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at
Deposits
■from
1/- to £3OO 2000
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at « 0 /
per annum <J/ 0
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. DENISON MILLER Governor.
■
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy anil Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TBOEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
°\
ir
V-#)
t(«
Riqht to IheTick!
You wifi save
Time c. Money
by carrying an
Vx<* R
. WATCH.
Gent.'s Full-sized
Open Face Oxidised
Steel Lever Watch,
with 15
Jewels,
33/-
FAIRFAX * HOBIWro
SYDNEY * LONDON
MADE 1N SWITZERLAND
Fairfax# Roberts Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Syt'ney,
■ 23 and 25 HUNTER STREET, SYDI' EY.
There’s No Razor to Equal
ISM
\~
V 6
99
the "PLUM.
That’s a fact —try one and prove dt. The “Plum” Razor is different-
better in everv way.
Made from the best Silver Steel and accurately tempered, it keeps a keen
edge always. No dragging—no tearing—but a smooth glide over the
face that leaves the skin clear and soft. .Your .morning shave will be
a daily delight if you use a “Plum.”
Prove it —send for one to-day.
THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR, 10/6 post free.
We keep it in good order for two years, free <of Change.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, JLO/;6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a'handspmerP r ® sen t-
All the Above Post Free. Send for Our (illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 3-6 YEARS.
Perfect.
Abbey Shoes are perfect in ail the
essentials of good dress and good
form.
The illustration shows our very
latest model in a Choice, All-
Patent Derby Bal., 32/0.
Also, in Ilighest-grade Tan Willow
Calf, 32/0.
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for our Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
/
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A |L,ady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian flenna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest 1 1 have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior . imitations to deceive Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
■
i ”
i v-
-5, V 'V',- -,< - ... :
'l
i, #v. *
lifefgiS
* *»~-
FREE ELECTRICITY.
Once installed, THE AUTOMATIC WIND MOTOR can be run
practically for nothing: it is driven by the wind and requires
NO FUEL whatever to generate electricity. There is no
Smell or Dirt, NO RISK from Fire, Shock or Explosion.
The power generated will safely light your home in the most modern, convenient and healthy
manner.
The heating of dwelling rooms is thereby reduced to a minimum, and the soiling and air-
vitiating effects of gas, oil and other illuminants is obviated, and, further, the fire risk is nil.
Electric fans can be driven to render hot summer days more bearable* and free the home
from flies, mosquitoes and other winged pests.
The domestic problem is solved by the furnishing of cheap power for vacuum cleaners,
electric irons, washing machines, etc.
A small freezing machine, capable of turning out ten or, in the larger sizes, a, proportion-
ately greater number of pounds of ice per hour, can be driven. This feature in itself s iou <
commend the plant to those who are forced to reside in the hotter districts of Australia, and, in
combination with the furnishing of electric light, will do much to give the country dweller some
of those comforts only at present enjoyed by the city man.
The larger plants can be utilised for driving shearing-machines, chaff-cutters, churns,
pumps and other machines where moderate powers are intermittently required.
Many pumping problems otherwise impossible of solution by the ordinary windmill pump
can be solved by the Automatic Wind Motor, since it can be placed in the most exposed position,
and the power generated transmitted by wires to a pump driven by an electric motor.
We shall be pleased at all times to advise prospective clients as to the size of plant best
suited to their individual requirements, or to explain any doubtful points.
All Communications to be addressed to
HAES
&
GGERS. LTD.
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.


m
FINNEY’S
Wearproof
KIT BAGS
Economy consists of buying the
right thing at the right price—
extravagance, the wrong thing at
any price.
This Kit Bag is right, any way you look at it Warranted all hide—good,
sturdy frame —nickel fittings—side pinch lock—good holding capacity, and light
to carry. j2in 14in. 16in. ISin.
13/6 15/6 17/6 19/6 each.
WRITE for our Sale Catalogue—it’s Free for the Asking.
FINNEY’S,
The Big Block,
—Brisbane.
HORSESHOE
SALMON
is Richer than Meats and contains the
same amount of Fat.—lt is even better
than fresh fish because it is cooKed in the
can, therefore none of the goodness can
escape. Always insist on “Horseshoe.”
It’s DELICIOUSLY FRESH.
IN
BANANA LAND
There’s none of us can dodge Death all the
time and every time. You outpoint him
badly for 19 rounds, and then he shoots out
an unsuspected left and wins on a clean
knock-out in the twentieth. The other day
in Brisbane a young cyclist was caught by
an electric car, which was half over him
before the motor-man could heave-to. Some-
body crawled under and discovered the lad
under the life-guard, with the pedal of his
machine across his throat, and slowly choking
the life out of him. They pulled him out,
and after the ambulance men had taken him
to the hospital, it was found that he had
escaped from what seemed almost certain
death twice over with no injuries to speak
of. But old battler Death, outpointed so
badly, didn’t lose his block : he just waited
until .the young man was full of confidence,
and then laid him- down and out with
tetanus. The trouble made an entrance
through the gravel-rash on his hands —an
injury so slight that nobody but Death had
noticed it.
‘‘Cleveland”: The hilarity of the loaded
goods-truck that ran amok in N.S.W. (B.
18/6/T4) reminds me of an incident on the
Cairns-Mareeba line (Q.) last year. A
guard’s van which was left standing at Tolga
remembered an appointment to spend the
week-end at Cairns, and started off. As
the van melted into the gloom, Tolga dragged
itself from its beer and cheered the guard,
■who was trying to make up a lOsec. handi-
cap on a down grade; but as no mortal man
could stand the strain, he retired after
500yds., and tore back to the station at
Tolga, where he tried to call up Mareeba
and advise it to bustle its sleeping stock off
the line. In reply he got 84 tons of silence.
Meanwhile, the van careered joyously on
through the night, and passed Mareeba with
a roar like an unpopular decision at a Mel-
bourne football match. The gods that pre-
side over the destinies of railway men worked
overtime that night, for, though Mareeba is
a junction station, ail the points were open,
and no damage was done. At Bibhoora a
steep grade and a sharp curve pulled rip the
runaway, which had done the 26 miles m
20 minutes, or at the rate of 78 miles per
hour. This tops the speed performance .of
Bananaland’s rolling stock. More exciting
still was the chase of a truck with four tons
of dynamite aboard, which broke away from
Stony Creek, on the eyebrows of the Kuranda
range (Cairns-Kuranda line), and followed
a passenger train. This was some years
ago. The passenger train kept ahead, and
the truck nosed its way into Freshwater
station, at the foot of the range, with one of
its wheels jammed and a penitent air about
it generally, while the railway, men offered
tribute to their joss. Taking it altogether,
they seem to have a very good joss in North
Queensland.
“Shark” : Virgil Power, lately summoned
to a Higher Court —not to be confused with
Charles Powers, who was summoned merely
to the High Court —was the last of the
Queensland Judges who wasn’t more or less
a Rechabrte. His capacity was surpassed
only ;by his recuperation. Many a time
friends, seeing how things were going, sus-
pected that there would be no court
morrow; but they always suspected wrong.
His law never seemed to suffer from Ins
conviviality. Only’ about four times in 15.
years were his judgments passed out, and
those times he was probably right and the
Court of Appeal wrong.
A wail from the North:—
Many Cardwell residents came up here with Jimmy
Tyson in the old Talisman between 30 and 40 years
ago, and settled on the Murray and Tally Rivers.
Jimmy had promised a sugar mill; but the black-
labor question impaired his memory, and the settlers
were left stranded. Gamely a few cockies hung to
the land, and still drag produce per dray to an
ancient, one.legged jetty, which is now propped up
with saplings, and is in the last stage of decay.
This jetty was built by Thompson, a private sawmill
owner. Government has done practically nothing for
THE ADAPTABLE PIE.
NED: “’ Struth , Jam, there was a mouse in the larst one I bought, from yeh."
JUMBO: “ Well, what a bargain! A firs'-clars mouse-trap fer a tanner."
the place. When the North Coast railway was mooted
we were given' to. understand that the first sections
would be built at the most payable points. Cardwell
threw up its hat, making sure at last of a jetty and
25 miles of line out to the rivers, which drain
thousands of acres of the richest scrub soil in
North Queensland, now roamed over by savages, but
capable of carrying a population as large as that of
Brisbane. But no line came, and it seems our sec-
tion is to be the last completed. Townsville is 120
miles south, and Cairns 120 miles north, and the line
has been started at 'the two ends, nearest the cham-
pagne. South of Cardwell lies the deep water of
Oyster Point, a beautiful natural harbor well-shel-
tered hy Hinchinbrook Island, and miles in extent.
Behind Cardwell, clothing the foothills, are forests
of ironbark suitable for sleepers ; 200,000 were taken
from here a few years since. Yet the axe only tickled
the fringe of the timber belt. Bloodwood and gum for
piles and girders are plentiful, while on the crest of
the range there are miles of pine, with patches of
cedar, maple, silky-oak, bean, etc. These valuable
timbers are at present beyond the reach of the lone
bullocky. Apart from the wealth in the timber the
soil is a bank on which 100,000 people, growing
sugar, butter and fruit, could draw prosperity. _ But
without either rail or shipping facilities there is no
prosperity even for the mere score or two of settlers
who are' left. Meantime, while the land cries out
an invitation to our northern friends to come south
and make everything yellow, and while Hinchinbrook
offers them safe anchorage for their ships, Tolmie,
the State’s Minister for Lands, weeps because he
can’t find country for settlement without buying out
the big Western sheep men. But even if he could put.
the new men on that Western land, they would be
only starting to get things ready, when here, in the
prolific North, they might be reaping their first
harvest.
Though he claims a great success, Digby
Denham says that to raise a loan in London
is not exactly wine and roses. This is true.
It’s whine and Moses,
The other day, at an agricultural show,
a Airs. Burgess was handed a special • blue
ribbon while competing for the prize for the
best astride horsewoman on the ground. She
was a brisk young settler of 74 years, and
the show was at Emerald, where the awful
climate comes from.
“Fergus”: Queensland buskmen are sub-
scribing to a fund to help Jim Ivenniff, who
comes out of gaol this. year. The opinion of
very many off them is that Jim shouldn’t
have- been there. The evidence of an abo.,
Sam Johnson, hanged Pat Ivenniff and sent
Jim to gaol for 15 years. Sam alleged that
he was a witness of the murder of Doyle
and- Dalke; but the bushman can’t believe
that the Ivenniffs, if they killed two men,
would have let a third look on end then ride
off to hang them. Besides, bushmen have
met too many Sam Johnsons to hang any
man on one Sam’s say-so..
“Rangan”; Brisbane still throws away
thousands of pounds annually in its vain
attempt to scrape sufficient mud off the bot-
tom of the creek to allow big ships to reach
the town wharves. In the last 10 years it
has poured no less than £813,000 into its mud
banks, and the return for that period showed
only £493,000. Since 1903 receipts have
grown from £25,000 to £77,000, and expendi-
ture from £33,000 to £139,000. Six dredges,
the Remora, the Hercules, the Hydra, the
Platypus, the Casuarina and the Mary-
borough, are continually scraping at the mqd.
— : and of these six Brisbane pays for only
one, the Remora. The other five, and, also,,
most off the £320,000 debit, is, charged up
against thq. general taxpayer, y/ho, iji all
probability has q- cr,eek offmis own to, dig out,.
There might be tracq% off sefise in this expendi-
ture if the improyemcqt \yqre permanent,, but
the.river is qontinqajly, drafting sand and mud-
down to take the place, off: the stuff removed;
and then the work goes., on, endlessly. More-
over, an occasional flood will drag a, mudf
bank from some out-of-thq-way spot, deposit
it fair in the middle of the stream, and pass
on without leaving, an address where a, claim
for compensation or, a, summons for assault
and; ungentlemanly conduct can be left, Ijt
is all very foolish and very futile and a. tre-
mendous waste of things too numerous and'
sanguinary to mention.
The Forest Thing.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I was a thing of the forest time.
And you were a thing of the sea ;
And out -of the flood you tried to climb —
Out of the weed and sand and slime,
And the shingled beach, to me.
I was a thing of leaf and bud,
And the sap in the thrilling bole;
And you were an eyeless spawn of mud,
Bubble-breather and brine for blood,
And a blind, impotent soul.
I swung on a branch on a clear, blue sky,
You rolled in a seaweed snare;
I flirted a squib at a butterfly,
Mocked the wind as it rustled by,
And drank of the sun-sweet air.
You sighed in the dark on your poachy floor,
You sobbed on the shell’s sharp rim.
And every ebb from the light-steeped shore,
Would fling you back with a spiteful roar,
To your caverns green and dim.
I drew my life from the grass and mould,
Where the oak and bracken grew ;
And you were but drift where the breakers
rolled—-
Now your hair is pale as the seaweed’s fold,
And your eyes still keep the blue.
My hair is ruddy as good red earth,
And my eyes are warm and dark,
As the bracken cowl ere the frond has birth,
And the bee and the moth have weighed its
worth,
Or the musky cedar’s bark.
Then keen to your tide, O wooer mine !• i
While I cling to my natal tree,
For your lips have a tang of the cold, cold
brine.
And my blood is red as the earth’s red wine,
And I cannot hide the sea !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, July 4, 1914.
My Dear Tiiargomindaii, —
The seven new appointments to the Legis-
lative Council have been made, and the sus-
pense is over. Brisbane supplies two out
of the seven representatives —"Ted” O’Shea,
sport and solicitor; and Eugen Hirschfeld,
German Consul. The other five are A. J.
Stevenson, ardent Freemason and Liberal;
Curtis, of Rockhampton, auctioneer and old
Sydney Grammar School boy; Campbell,
farmer, of Toowoomba; Ilodel, of Towns-
ville, whose family had newspapers in Thurs-
day Island and Australia North; and Dunn,
of Maryborough; who practically was reared
at the printer’s case, and comes of a very
old newspaper family.
Two weddings happened this week. On
Monday afternoon Gladys Hobday, younger
daughter of deceased artist J. M. Hobday,
married C. A. Powell. Brother P. S. Hob-
day, and sister Gus, who both can do some-
thing uncommon with brush and pencil,
accompanied their Gladys up to the tethering
post. She wore pale blue harness, over-
topped with a pale blue veil caught with a
wreath of pink roses and forget-me-nots. It
was uncommon.
The other wedding, was a matter between
John Macdonald's pretty daughter Isabel
and Maldwyn Davies, the strapping six-foot
son of Mr. and Mrs. W. Davies, of Auchen-
flower. This wedding caused quite a flutter
in flapperdom, since the bride is barely 29
and the groom one year older. Mary Mac-
donald was bridesmaid and Eric Wardrop
next best man. Parson Mer ring ton performed
the necessary ecclesiastical odd jobs.
Mabel Woolcock, the handsome soprano,
who has been singing in Maoriland, has-
signed another sort of contract, and shortly
will become Mrs. Bernard. The male party
to the agreement has been for many years ini
the Bank of Australasia.
Lena Hammond, Gladys Frost and Mar-
jorie Stuart gave a musical recital at
Paling’s Claviola Rooms on Tuesday. The
room was crowded inside, and outside the
tail of the audience spread like the narrative
of a peacock.
The Yacht Club Ball on Wednesday might
was a noble effort and grandiloquent result,
bar the fact that the men were outnumbered!
by about 30 shemales. The decorations,
however, were evenly balanced, and were in
gold and white art muslin. Fluffy bunches,
of yellow wattle were set effectively on the-
supper table. The music was good, the sup-
per was far from being bones and ashes,_ and'
the floor engineer had brought slipperiness ;
to a fine art. There were three buds—
Dorothy Earwaker, who looked very hand-
some ; Miss I’igott, of Toowoomba; and Mis»
Day Bird.
The girls from the Residential College-
had a dance on Friday night, and on the-
same date the first of the Corinda Private-
Assemblies was held.
Maibry Campbell, assisted hy. a number off
well-known local performers, gave a benefit
entertainment for the Hospital on Tuesday
night. It was unfortunate that the public
didn’t support her better, for the show was;
as good as its object.
Yours- affectionately,
AUSTRALIAN JANE.
Thus Minister Tolmie :
The policy of the Liberal Government is: People-,
land, communication and railways.
If the Liberal policy be “People,” how comes-
it that Queensland, which has had so many
Liberal Governments, gets such a miserable-
dribble of immigrants every year? The fact
is both Liberals and Laborites in Queens-
land are frightened of a strenuous immigra-
tion policy: the Liberals because they ard
afraid of swamping the Southern constitu-
encies with Labor voters; the Laborites be-
cause they dread the boot of those of their
followers who only see in immigrants fresh)
competitors in the Labor market.
“Rangan”: The three substantial increases;
in the fares and freights on coastal steamers;
in the past year needs some explaining away
but; at present Rockhampton is trying to- get)
the shipping companies to- explain the fol-
lowing (-abridged) table off freights;;—
Brisbane to'
Rockhampton-to,. same towns;.
Mackay .. . ... 29/6 per ton. 25/-per ton.-
Townsville- ... ... SO/- „ 26/- „
Cooktown . . ... 40/- 35/6
Thursday Island, . . 39/- „ 30./- ~
Brisbane has always had a pull on the-
northern towns by cheap, long-haulage rates*
on, the railways, but then the railways belong:
to, the Government, and the Government is;
a. Brisbane institution.. It costs 17s. 6d;
per ton to, bring goods the 4.00 miles from)
Brisbane to Rockhampton by steamer, yet
with this 400 miles thrown in it is cheaper
to. carry goods from Brisbane to northern-
townsthan from Rockhampton up. So appar-
ently the sea is also a Brisbane institution;.
This seems as good a time as usual for Cen-
tral Queensland to start an insurrection.


IfSSBtS
.
T. ■: ' ■•: , .-•*?'«- ■
, .
■
K 1
111
• «»
ft;
• .
'
*,
ffeSl
..
.
. .
'i" . ' .?•’
■m
:
i|§§3j
**s3
ft'.
■ ’
M
«
*
n
i*
> ->•'
«-
f ,v«
\.f
ft* ft* %
>V
i J
r rv?:
■ft:
0T
*r
V
;; i
L
i
m
'■ •■
m
b r^st™
J
ill
/
* ' / *'
t
v
WP
jy
’
.
mi
■
7
r~7
,v ?f
D
D
#4- -
ill
M
‘■V. -ft
P V J
T «
OLP
RAR6
::
“What,” asked Sandy, “ do you
wear
Sleepin’ in th’ rain at night,
chap ? ”
Said the drover : “ Over here
On this log I’ve got a nightcap.
But I wear the thing INSIDE*
It’s a perfect fit and handy,
Have a nobbier now,” he cried,
“ ’Tis the whisky known as
4 Sandy ’ I ”


Business Announcements.
We invite you to buy a box of “De
Reszke” Cigarettes and compare them
with any brand you please. Their quality
will appeal to you.
Deßeszke
n
There’s Danger in Unclean False Teeth!
People who use only the best dentifrices
for their natural teeth are satisfied to
simply wash the false teeth i« water.
This is a positive danger to health.
Tt is easy to keep artificial teeth and
plates sweet and clean with DENSO, the
Perfect Cleanser.
Ilovvever discolored and unnatural false
teeth may have become, DENSO will
immediately restore them to perfect fit,
cleanliness and color. Send Id. stamp
for postage on FREE Sample. [2
DENSO
Thoroughly
Cleanses!
J. M. Wilkes 8 Co., Alphington, Melb., Vic.
Hotel Stewart
SAN FRANCISCO
A high-class hotel very favorably known to
travellers from Australia, New Zealand and
the Orient. Headquarters for Britishers in
San Francisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. Third annex just completed. 360
rooms. 260 connecting bathrooms. Every
comfort and convenience. Beautifully fur-
nished. Famous fer its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping, theatre
and cafe districts. On street ear lines to all
parts of city. Our omnibuses with uni-
formed attendants meet all steamers and
trains. Travellers are urged to make reser-
■ vations by letter or wireless to be assured
the most satisfactory accommodation. Cable
address, “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals, 16s. a day and up.
Rooms without Meals, Bs. a day and up.
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
Proprietors.
m
TOUCHES
THE
SPOT
m
THE PIONEER OF SKIN CURES
No household should be without it.
For ECZEMA, PILES, SCALDS, BURNS,
CUTS, BRUISES, SORES, and all Skin
Complaints.
For Free Sample enclose Two Penny Stomps.
LYALL WILLIS & CO.,
Sole Wholesale Agents,
127, .York Street, Sydney.
r
fr.
v:
COPY THIS SKETCH
and send it to us with 4d.
in stamps for criticism, and
let us explain how our per-
sonal lessons by post will
develop your talent for
profitable Black and White
Sketching.
THE AUSTRALIAN SCHOOL
OF SKETCHING,
1 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
Queensland Park Saddle
A splendid saddle for general use. Made on best
English tree, with Plated Bars and Double Gullet,
and is built of best material throughout.
m
This saddle has hogskin seat and pads, extra long
flaps, Victoria panel, deep, sweepy seat, nickel-plated
4-bar irons, folded girth, £B/19/6 Complete, add
exchange. Mention The Bulletin when ordering.
A surcingle will be given free. This saddle is' for-
warded freight paid to any railway station or port,
N.S.W., or any port Queensland. Obtained from
J. P. TALTY, Manufacturer, 38S SUSSEX
STREET, SYDNEY.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF P
\/OU begin to
A look old, with
those grey and
{a de d hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
tforld-famed
m
Lockyer’s
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
Free
Most Famous Sliding Cord
Brace in the World
-*>o ld Everywhere
21-
Guaranteed^
Gel the Genuine
DUPLEX
Mast b* Stamped
on Buckle.
The Royal
Tonic—
The Tonic
of Queens !
PHOSFERI
OilTHn
_ . Dost
(VM.i l
iM fc»« ft***
fcmie im nr A3HTOIUM
-cSfa
¥
ntr}
Phosferine
This is unexcelled as a Nerve Tonic
—a proven remedy for Nervous De-
bility, Influenza, Indigestion, Sleep-
lessness, Exhaustion, Neuralgia, Ma-
ternity Weakness, Premature Decay,
Mental Exhaustion, Loss of Appetite,
Lassitude, Neuritis, Faintness, Brain-
Fag, Anasmia, Backache, Rheumatism,
Headache, Hysteria, Sciatica and dis-
orders consequent upon a reduced state
of the nervous system.
Beware of imitations! The Genu-
ine Phosferine is in a buff package,
labelled ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD.,
LONDON.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT ALL
CHEMISTS.
a
Choose a "Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
hand suited exactly.
”” “SWAM SAFETY
II
Can't Leak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch !
Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney.
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
\
A
TRADE
trade
MARKS
A
B.S.A
B.S.A
THE WORLD’S BEST
For a really good rifle of the most modern type and at a moderate price the
B.S.A. War Office Miniature Rifle
.22 CALIBRE
should appeal to the expert rifleman and Sportsman. An ideal weapon for miniature rifle clubs,
it is fitted with special military sights adjustable to 200 yards, latest safety bolt action, perfect
rifling and beautifully balanced. Sold by up-to-date dealers at 55/- single shot, or 70/- with
magazine. If your dealer cannot supply, write for address of nearest agent.
Descriptive Booklet post free from
D. Y. RENNIE (Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.), Australian Bldgs., Melb.
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE HAND
The National
flonthly, 6d.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
A'o notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MSS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
V.W.J.: The drawing it the best part of
it; and that isn’t good enough... .A.C.K.: Don't
remember it. But cut it out or otherwise identify
it, and send claim to the accountant. Present at-
tempt is an old-age pensioner. . ..A.S.L.: Wonderful
how these good„ stories repeat themselves... .Grono
Park: Mostly off our beat; and why don’t you
write your pars in the simple, direct language of
your covering letter? A.R.: On the thin side.
Returning script J.H., jun.: The writer of that
par. (B. 11/6/T4) swears by his remedy. He savs
you did not use sufficient of it. .. .N.J.L.: Too
local; Thursday Island and Fremantle wouldn’t
understand why the poor lady shouldn’t give “Butty”
McMahon a penny Peter: It’s not worth while
speculating on any further. If Massie bunches the
city electorates in an amending Bill, Fisher is a
good bet.... Bumble B.: Not a shadow of a clianee
....Jane Britannia Smith: The fact that you have
written on both sides of the paper isn’t "the most
depressing part of your contribution Eulomogo:
Yarrum was talking about unionists—laborers or
tradesmen who in his district do a little dairying
as a side-line G.L. (Goulburn) : Those verses
about Brother Tamarind’s religious pink tights were
not accepted because they were very poor verses. It
was a good subject, but you weren’t equal to it.
And now Brother Tamarind is a back number, and
his tights are of no consequence whatever—not that
they were ever of much consequence... .Jim R. :
Sorry verses no good. That sort of lying windbag is
always about —he never cashes his threat and goes
to Mexico, where everyone is so free that no man’s
life is safe. .. . A.B.: You don’t bake your bricks
well Jackass: Look for another tree... .C.P.S.:
Sketch too labored.... Peter P.: Turn it off 1 We
don’t want Dooley all over again W.O.C.: “I am
sitting in the Twilight Thinking of the Days Gone
By.” You loafer 1... .F.A.C.: Who has been sneering
at you? Go on! Out with it! O.W. (V.): No
use for Andra’s nightmare G.J.H. (V.) : Unsuit-
able. .. .W.A.L. (V.): Not worth while.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
K.K.K.: Very rough and rather serious Na_.
Don’t care for that American type of stuff. You do
it crudely anyhow... ,G.F.: As you have supplied
them, can you suggest a use for a sober, shapeless
drunk, a gnome-like small boy about as big as a
toad and a stupid remark ?. .. . Alex. F. G.: Glad to
hear it’s a kangaroo ; we thought it was a rat
A.T.: Your figures look as if they had been boiled
and rolled out flat preparatory to being stuffed and
mounted by a mad taxidermist... .J.N. (Dubbo):
You are young and know nothing about art; also
your sense of humor is undeveloped. Don’t go on
producing humorous pictures that make people angry ;
hurry out and learn something about the job... .
C.P.S.: Poor drawings, and gags are no good as
suggestions William R.H. (Tas.) : Work is too
crude to judge by. If you are “only 16” you are
young enough to improve out of sight—or to give it
up altogether... .P.W.M.: Scratchy drawings and
useless gags. .. .Harry H.: No point in it and very
little drawing M.S. (Fitzroy, V.): Maybe the
sketch was noticed and you missed it. What was
the thing’s name and when did you fire it at this
office? If you sent stamps and we did not consider
it suitable, it would just go back in dead silence.
If you didn’t send stamps and we didn’t want it,
it wouldn’t go back, and we would certainly make
some remarks in this column.
A Melbourne paper, speaking with some
pride of a local pickpocket, says: “His
talent for purloining tie- and breast-pins has
won him high distinction among the crooks
of the Commonwealth, who recognise him as
an absolute genius.” Why not? Why may
not genius be an enormous capacity for tak-
ing pins?
The Ship that Never Returned has been
reporting itself somewhat frequently of late.
On June 6 the steamer August (Valparaiso
to Sydney) found the American four-master
El Jarasio deserted and waterlogged. Boats
and papers were gone, and there was nothing
to show when the crew left, or how or why.
A full cargo of timber kept the dismasted
hulk just awash. The August set alight to
what was left, as it was lumbering the
track of Australia-South America vessels.
On February 4 the Ventura (’Frisco to
East London) boarded the corpse of the
Dalgonar. This, the biggest British wind-
jammer afloat, had been abandoned last
year while tramping from Callao to Taital.
Captain and crew were picked up by the
French ship Loire. The Ventura’s skipper
reckons the derelict could easily be rescued
from its lonely pilgrimage. A tale hangs to
the schooner Americana, which vanished
somewhere between ’Frisco and Sydney
about a year ago. Soon after the vessel
took the road a seaman, Louis Buttner, got
his arm caught in a windlass. The yarn
goes that the limb was amputated with a
meat saw. Buttner was put ashore at
Eureka, and lat&r sued the Ameridana’s
charterers for 40.000 dollars; but as the
vessel and all hands were missing his suit
failed, for want of witnesses. Lately the
Americana’s mate turned up in ’Frisco, and
said he had seen Buttner’s smash. His luck
was in for once—he had left the schooner
at Knappton, so there was one less to respond
when D. Jones stepped aboard to call the
roll.
Marshall Lyle addresses the jury:—
I ask permission to reply to the attack upon the
principle of municipalisation (B. 18/6/’l4), in regard
to the rumored intention of the Melbourne City
Council to close the municipal Turkish baths. The
writer of the paragraph claims that these baths
should be closed, because (1) they do not pay; (2)
they are only availed of by a few, and not furnished
for the general public; (3) they are stuffy and ill-
ventilated ; (4) the supporters are either Hebrews
(mostly) or penurious monopolists. The third and
fourth contentions are notoriously untrue. The
Melb. municipal baths are exceptionally well ven-
tilated. As for the users of the baths, they consist
of all classes, but mostly non-Hebrews and persons
hostile to monopoly, such as Labor supporters,
Federal and State Parliamentary Labor members
(| _ can name six Labor leaders who are regular
visitors). As regards the statement that the city
Turkish baths do not pay, and therefore should be
closed, I deny that that is a good reason to close
any municipal sanitary undertaking. There are
various municipal services that do not return a cash
profit, nor even balance their expenses (such as
ordinary sanitary arrangements, public lending
library, and town organ), but are they to be abol-
ished therefore? It is wrong to state, also, that
the city Turkish baths are not furnished for the
public. They are very comfortably furnished.
Likewise, it is inaccurate to accuse the Turkish bath
of being a luxury. Maybe it is to some people, but
to a great many these baths are ordered by medical
men for health reasons. And in this respect public
baths of every kind, hot or cold, are as worthy of
support out of the rates and taxes as hospitals or
asylums. Not the limitation, but the extension, of
the functions of the State and the municipalities, in
regard to the public health, is urgently required to-
day.


A Successful Picture
in Every Exposure of
KODAK N.C. Film
There are absolutely no failures —no dis-
appointments if Kodak N-C Film is used.
Every click of the shutter means a satis-
factory picture, for Kodak N-C Film is
simply perfect, and properly orthochro-
matised for the average condition that
the amateur encounters.
Simplicity is the keynote of Film photo-
graphy.-
There’s no dead weight —enough Films can be carried
in your pocket to last through a long trip.
Be sure it is Kodak Film with which you load your
Kodak —look for ‘ ■ Kodak ’ ’ on the spool end and
“ N-C ” on the box.
* -<
•&--4
f /-
' 'x
3
- -
-
■ • r~»„-
■ : •*
• feil
' .1 '
sPPjff
KODAK
(Australasia)
LTD.
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “The Block.” 284 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 37 Hundle Street.
BRISBANE: 250-252 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA : Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON: Den Ham Street.
BROKEN HILL: 346 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON. N.Z.: Dixon Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. : 3 Lome Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: 70 Stuart Street.
mm
GROW A MOUSTACHE!
You can grow a splendid moustache if you use the well-known preparation,
CAPILLARINE.
Hundreds have proved t.he merit, of this wonderful hair-grower, to their
entire satisfaction. Applied at. night—it cannot be detected, and it is not
injurious to t.he most delicate skin.
Prove it —get a jar to-day. PRICE 10/6 JAR, post free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each, Post Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
When Peter Dawson sings
m
even the most restless audience must listen with
keen appreciation. ,
Whether one hears him in a sentimental ballad or
a rollicking song of the sea or the battlefield, there
is real artistry expressed by his robust voice, and
real ability shoyyn in his fine command of it.
“His Master’s Voice”
Records
by this popular singer are wonderfully true to life. These are but selections
from his records :
■4/3
10=INCH
3-2338 Three For Jack.
3-2466 The Admiral’s Broom.
3-2259 Bedouin Love Song.
3-2396 O Star of Eve (Tannhauser).
3-2791 I Fear No Foe.
3-2310 Blow! Blow! Thou Winter Wind.
3- Hybrias, the Cretan.
4- Love and Wine (Gipsy Love).
12= INCH
02372 Marna.
02393 Anchored.
02412 At Santa Barbara.
02453 I Fear No Foe.
02385 Sincerity.
02426 The Floral Dance.
02442 Unless.
Complete record lists, instrument catalogue and
name of nearest dealer on request.
Sole Concessionaires for
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
m
For Absent Friends
Typical Australian Souvenirs.
Patriotic Australians Abroad will know how well to
appreciate these little Emblems of TIIEIR, OWN COUNTRY.
The pleasure given to THEM will far outdistance the cost to
YOU.
C 9423.
Solid Silver-
mounted Glove
Hook, 1/6.
C 9293 —Garnet-set. 9ct.
Gold “Southern Cross”
Brooch, 10/6.
CBl2l. —9ct. Gold
Sleeve Links, 15/6,
15ct. Gold, 27/6.
09423.
Solid Silver-
mounted Glove
Hook, only
1/6.
Full Postage Paid to any Address in Australia
Full Catalog' Free on Request.


Scientific Instruments
For Every Trade, Industry and Profession.
Hydrometers, for testing every liquid.
mm
We make and repair them, and will
Bend you a catalogue, upon request,
of the most up-to-date Instruments for
Brewers, Wine & Spirit Merchants,
Refrigerators, Engineers, Surveyors,
Tanners, Sugar Boilers, Meat & Ice
Works, Butchers, Bakers, Vignerons,
Agriculturists Graziers, Dairy
Farmers, Makers of Aerated Water,
Cordials, Vinegars, Oils, Varnish, Soap
and Candles. Also for Schools, Col-
leges, the Medical Profession, and the
Household. Thermometers, Barome-
ters, Hydrometers, Rain, Gas, Water,
Vacuum and Pressure Gauges made,
repaired and readjusted. Lubricator
and Gauge Glasses, all sizes. Dairy
Factory Glassware and Testing Appar-
atus a Specialty.
WILSON, NAFIS&CO. Ltd., Wharf St, Brisbane, Q.
SULPHURIC ACID.
"T HE Proprietor of Australian Letters Patent No.
* 2773 of 1911 for “improvements in or relating to
the treatment of sulphuric acid” is desirous of
introducing his invention to those interested with a
view to its being worked commercially under license
or otherwise. For information apply to Messrs.
WALTER S. BAYSTON & SON, Patent Attorneys,
441 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Miliars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W
Branches in all pans of the world.
CHALLENGE.
MURPHY CHALLENGES THE WORLD
TO CURE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL
BLEEDING PILES.
Permanent Cure. Established 1891.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS, NON-
APERIENT,
have cured thousands of cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by
ANDREW MURPHY, WOY WOY,
N.S.W., Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, or a Course of 8
boxes £l. All postage free. Under
plain cover.
On Sale by all Druggists, Chemists and Store-
keepers throughout the States.
Amusements.
ET» ICKARDB’ TIVOJLI THEATRE, SYDNEY^
* * Governing Director: HUGO D. McINTOSU.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
MATINEES: WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY AT 2.30.
Commencing NEXT SATURDAY, at the MATINEE.
WALLACE BROWNLOW,
The Celebrated Operatic Baritone.
OMEGA TRIO. THORNLEY-DODGE.
THE GILLS. GERTRUDE GEBEST.
EUGENE DAMOND. JOSH DIXON.
WINIFRED WARD. GILDAY & FOX.
Box Plan Theatre and Nicholson’s.
T IVOL.I THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
BETH TATE, the Californian Girl.
VAUDE & VERNE. HARRY TAFT.
THE FOUR VAGABONDS.
W. TALLEUR ANDREWS.
THE VILLIONS. KRACHT BROS.
RALPH ERROLL, Renowned Tenor Vocalist.
VIVIEN TALLEUR & FRED READE.
> Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—4s., 3s„ 2s:, Is.
Jivou TIIE A T KE, ADELAIDE
EVERY EVENING.
ADA REEVE
ADA REEVE
ADA REEVE
The Greatest Comedienne in the World.
: TIVOLI T H E A T It E, P E K X II
■ HARRY RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
! Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
LAST NIGHTS. RUSSELL CARR. LAST NIGHTS.
LAST NIGHTS. VERA ROCHDALE. LAST NIGHTS.
SIX CAMERONS. GEORGE WHITEHEAD.
ARTHUR DON & PATTY. LAZERN-.
HENNESSY & MARTELL. CLARDY BROS.
! ALEX. BLACK. SALINGER & HAMILTON, r
Prices: 3/-,: 2/- and 1/-, No Extra Fees.
HR It MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
• ■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present . .
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in the Queen of Viennese Comic Operas,
GIPSY LOVE.
The most entrancing musical treat of 1914.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
; A E !’ II I TIIICA T K E. SYDN IS Y
i ” Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY. LTD.
! LAST TWO NIGHTS OF BROUGHT TO RUIN.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JULY 11.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD., in conjunction with
Beaumont Smith, have the honor to introduce
MR. YVU.
| An enthralling play of true Anglo-Eastern life.
; Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Nicholson’s.
NATIONAL THEATR e 7 S Y D N E Y
* Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.
At 2.30, VAUDEVILLE TWICE DAILY, at 8
It- & 6d. BARGAIN MATINEES DAILY. 1/- & 6d.
SEBASTIAN MERRILL. THE HARTLEY WONDERS,
PHIL PERCIVAL. ROSE MILLWARD.
MATILDA & ELVIRA. MABS CAMPBELL.
THE CHIPOLA TWINS. VIENNA TRIO.
DAVIS & GLEDHILL. EDITH BOULTON.
WESTON & HILL. MOLLIE AMBROSE.
Evening Prices as Usual.
’Phone Central 906 for Reservations.
■ lII’EKIAL SALON D E LUXE.
■ Direction BENDRODT & IRVING.
DANCING AS USUAL.
Opening to the Public
SATURDAY, JULY 11.
And EVERY: AFTERNOON AND EVENING following,
except July 15.
’Phone: 682 William Street.
Amusements.
THE EIT T L E THEATRE
■ CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.10.
MR. HUGH BUCKLER & MISS VIOLET PAGET
Present, for the first time on an}’ stage, an entirely
new and original play by an Australian author,
entitled,
THE MASTER OF ANGERSTROOM.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
THE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES,
■ In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL. EMPRESS,
| Ihe finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
“J" H E OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
"BEST OF ALL.”
EA MILY M ATI NEE—SATURDA Y.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
3d. to 2s. Plans at Nicholson’s CNo Extra Fee).
Q EACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
THE IC U-SKATTISG SEASON
ATTRACTIVE EXHIBITIONS OF FANCY SKATING
BY INTERNATIONAL SKATERS.
DAILY SESSIONS.
10 to 12 a.m. 3to 5 p.m. Sto 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION 2/- SKATES 6d.
’Phone. Glebe 492. DUNBAR POOLE. Manager.
3 *’ KNc Js K’S EYCE U M, SYI) N E V
THE WORLD’S BEST PICTURES.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE—WEDNESDAY, AT 2.30.
A GREAT PROGRAMME, consisting of TOPICAL,
DRAMATIC, SCENIC and COMEDY SUBJECTS.
Prices: 1/6, 1/- & 6d, Plan at Paling’s & White Rose.
*T*HE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
LEROY TALMA & BOSCO.
MIRTH. MYSTERY. MAGIC.
POPULAR PRICES. PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
Direction E. J. CARROLL.
M KK MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE
■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltp.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT,. JULY 11.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S GILBERT AND SULLIVAN
OPERA CO. in
lOLANTHE.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices: 65., 45., 2s. and Is.
Amusements.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
FRED NIBLO & JOSEPHINE COHAN
in
OFFICER 666.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
* Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
Managing Director: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY LTD.
Present the Stupendous Pantomime Extravaganza,
ALADDIN.
Prices: 5/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-, Plan at Pianola.
g I J O l' THEATRE, MEL BOURN E.
FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director BEN. J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON, 2.30. • EVENING AT 8.
JOSEPHINE GASSMAN’S PICCANINNIES.
F. IIAGAN & CO. FERNANDEZ & MAY.
ALFRED LATELL. LIVERMORE AND HIS DOLL.
Prices: 2/6, 2/-, If- & 6d. Matinges: 1/6, If- & 6d.
(UJAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
** * By Arrangement with
AMALGAMATED PICTURES LTD.
SPENCUR’S pictures.
EVERY EVENING.
Plan at Allan s.
M ELBOURNE GLACIARIUM.
ICE-SKATING.
AFTERNOONS AT 3.
EVENINGS AT 7.45.
lAIIS S T’S PALACE. MELBO U R N E.
THE BEST WEST S PICT UR liS THE best
OF ALL LIMITED. OF ALL
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinges Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
Tjie Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen
at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
B I It C II & CARROLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville jn all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which wc have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTH WELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE
"My name
is Simplicity*'
“ I can travel
siviflly over the roughest paper.
/ travel many hundreds of miles every year—over
foolscap and uottpaper, sketch hook and draining pad.
I tan travel in comfort , with never a hitch , or a
jolt , or a wait, for years arid years."
The Onblo is the Fountain Pen that fiils itself
.instantly; from any ink supply, with no trouble or
mess. A simple device seals the ink reservoir so that
’ the Onoto cannot leak.. You can pack it in your bag
without any fear of it ever spoiling your clothes. It
is the safety pen that is REALLY safe—the sell-
filling peri that is ALWAYS satisfactory. Get it.
Onoto
the non-stop pen.
Price 12/y and upwards, of all Stationers, Jewellers and
booklet about the Onoto Pen free on application to
1HOS. DE LA RUE CO., I.td., 181 Bunhill Row,
London, E. C. ; or the Australasian Representatives, Norman
Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
Ask for Onoto Ink—Best for all Pens.
Ah! The
Pleasure and
Convenience
of Motor-
Boating!
Don’t envy the
possessor of a
costly motor-boat.
Enjoy your outings
' -4
afloat —dispense with the drudgery of rowing; be comfortable, be speedy
by installing the simple, small, yet strong
Sizes,
VA, 2,
3'Aho.
EVINRUDE
Detachable Rowboat Motor
The Evinrude Motor is compact
and easily transported. It will drive
any rowboat 8 miles an hour. 25,000
Evinrude Motors are in use in salt
and fresh water. 9 Governments have
adopted it for economy and service.
Steered by the propeller—-no rudder re-
quired, but supplied if desired. Reversible;
battery ignition or MAGNETO, and auto-
matic lubrication. Fu'lv
MOTORS CAN BE FITTED WITH THE
FAMOUS MAXIM SILENGER.
Descriptive Booklet from Controlling Rep-
resentative for Australasia & New Zea-
land, H. A. GODDARD, Dept. D-12, 88
Queen Street. Melbourne; Dept. D-12, 191
Vickery’s Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney:
Dept. D-12, 3 Australasia Chambers, Queen Street.
Brisbane. Bocal Agents: 11. Kennedy, Dept. D-12. Broome, W.A.;
& Co., Dept. D-12, Perth, W.A. Agents required in unal-
territory. Apply, H. A. GODDARD, Brisbane.l
m
ACCORDEONS
The DUDLEY
No other aecordeon can compare with the
“Dudley” for excellence of finish and full,
sonorous tone. Every instrument thoroughly
tested.
DUDLEY ACCORDEON MODEL “A”
Ebonised Mouldings-; Nickel Corner Protec-
tors; 10-Button Keys of Mother of .Pearl; 2
rows of Steel Reeds; 10-fold Double Bellows;
2 Basses; 2 Stops; Leather Handles.
POST FREE . 35/.
Ask your storekeeper for “Dudley” instru-
ments or write direct to—
A. P. SYKES
272 LITTLE COLLINSST MELBOURNE.
V*
Koh-i-noor
Propelling
Pencils
Just a twist with thumb
and forefinger makes this
pencil ready for use, and
reverse twist sends the
lead back again. The
lead is perfectly rigid
when writing and does
not slip under pressure.
Made in a variety of
charming styles to suit
every taste and pocket.
Each pencil fitted with
the famous silken-smooth
“ Koh-i -noor ” lead.
In various styles and sizes.
Sold by Stationers, &c., everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMLTH, LTD.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, Eng.
Australia : 350, George St., Sydney.
Write for List, post free.
I
PEA FN ESS.
Every condition of deafness or defec-
tive hearing is being helped and cured
by Wilson’s Common-Sense Ear
Drums. If you suffer from Catarrhal
Deafness, Relaxed or Sunken
Drums, Thickened Drums,
Roaring and Hissing Sounds,
Perforated of Partially De-
stroyed Drums, Drums wholly
Destroyed, Discharge from
Ears, use the order form
below and get relief at
once. No matter how long-
standing the; case may be,
there is hope of good hearing
for all the afflicted deaf.
The Common-Sense Ear Drums are made of
soft, sensitised materia], comfortable. and safe
to wear. They are out of sight when worn,
and easily adjusted bv wearer.
The total cost is £i. Order to-day.
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit, containing a pair
of Wilson Common-Sense Ear Drums, an Inserter
and a Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address .
NOTE. —Send Money Order or Postal Note. If
a Banknote or Sovereign is sent, you must regis-
ter it. [2
THE DRUM
<N POSITION
[thOvonderfil weather house
Foretells Rain or Shine, better than tOe
Government Bureau, reliable,
cannot get out of order, lasts a lifetime.
our grandfathers were children
these Weather Houses were in use, and
many people >vill recall how anxiously
the little figures In the doorways were
watched for warning of a coming storm,
[and they could always be depended
lpon. When going to be fine, the
I Girl comes out; and the other figure
a PP^a rs when rain may be expected.
JA Thermometer on the front of the
House shows the temperature,
!_”«• nT>T. 4 inchM. The UNION W ElizaLt"st ag Meib.
! Sis


Blotchy Look, Terrible Itching.
Kept Awake at Night, Used Cu-
ticura Soap and Ointment. In
Two Weeks Eruptions Gene.
*
90 Park St., South Melbourne, Vic.—
“ My face and neck began to have a blotchy
look and about two days, after small erup-
tions began to form about my neck. A
little time after my face was affected in
the same way, accompanied by terrible itch-
ing. I was kept awake at night with the
irritation and for days I could not wear a
collar. After trying about half a dozen
other ointments and medicines which did
not do me the slightest good, I was advised
to give Cuticura Ointment and Cuticura
Soap a trial. I decided to try it, and after
the first treatment with the Cuticura Oint-
ment and Cuticura Soap I felt relieved and
in two weeks all traces of the eruptions
were gone, and ever since having used the
Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Ointment I
have never been troubled with the com-
plaint.” (Signed) W. Laidlaw, July, 1912.
In the care of baby’s skin and hair, Cuti-
cura Soap is the mother’s favorite. Not
only is it unrivaled in purity and refresh-
ing fragrance, but assisted by Cuticura
Ointment its gentle emollient properties are
usually sufficient to allay minor irritations,
remove redness, roughness and chafing,
soothe sensitive conditions, and promote
skin and hair health generally. They are
also most valuable in the treatment of
eczemas, rashes and other itching, burning
infantile eruptions. Cuticura Soap wears
to a wafer, often outlasting several cakes of
ordinary soap and making its use most eco-
nomical. Cuticura Soap and Cuticura
Ointment are sold everywhere. Sample of
each mailed ftee, with 32-p. Skin Book.
Address K. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Violent Cathartics
Injure Health
Don’t take purgatives —their harsh action
is liable to injure the bowels. Why not use
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER
PILLS, a purely vegetable
remedy that has been
successfully used by
millions for half-a-
century. Acts
gently but surely
and not only
quickly re-
lieves but
for ever
ends the misery of constipation. Use them for dizzi-
ness, indigestion, sick headache and all liver troubles*
m
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The
GENUINE
must bear
Signature
m
if
'a#'
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
age, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. 13.
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. B. ALLEN’S <u.s.a.)
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suitable
for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
“CARBIDE"
Ask for 1
PERNIX,”
I and see that
you get it, with
the trade mark
“PERNIX” on every Cask and Drum.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED,
62 Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1549. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of freehold or Leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined). Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasure Bills of any of the Australian States or
Zealand. SWAT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during anv vear, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors—The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Cha’irman; The Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. It. J. Black,M.L.C. : The Hon. F. E. Winchombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
Knox, Esq., ICC. ; Sir Alex. MaeCormiek, M.D. General Manager and Actuary: Richard leece, t.1.A..
F.F.A., F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. Y " r * ,>Drl)t v s«*retarv.
§
CATARRH CENTRES OF THE HEAD.
" Kat-ar-ah " Treatment provides an < nlararct
supply of medicated air to soothe and heal
these discharoing surfaces.
THE MENACE OF
CATARRH!
There are few human ailments which create such
discomfort and misery as Catarrh —the mother of
all disease. It pursues you at work and at play;
it is with you everywhere, threatening Deafness,
Throat Diseases, Bronchitis, Asthma, Dyspepsia,
Neuritis and Consumption; making you down-
hearted, ruining your hopes, wrecking your life
and holding the weapon of greater suffering
always before you.
Those offensive discharges from the nose, the partial loss of
hearing, the irritating head-noises, the dry “ stopped-up ” feel-
ing in the nostrils, the constant sneezing, the husky throat, the
frequent headaches, the continual hawking and spitting to dislodge
the mucous secretions, the heavy tired feeling when you awake —
these symptoms are as nothing compared with the fact that you are
inviting the entry of some wor=e affliction if you neglect Catarrh.
- - .ir.
Free to Sufferers.
To all who are afflicted with Catarrh in any form I offer a FREE
TRIAL of “Kat-ar-ah” Inhalant. It gives immediate relief to
the inflamed membranes, clears the head, nose, throat and
lungs, conveys health-giving, purifying Sind germ-destroying
medicated air to the affected parts and cleanses the nasal
passages of accumulated mucous. No matter how many remedies
you may have tried do not consider you! case hopeless until
you have tried ‘ ‘ Kat-ar-ah ’ ’ Treatment.
V/hen writing give your full name and address; be sure to
mention this paper, and enclose 3d. in stamps to cover cost of
postage. The Trial Bottle will be sent you by return mail,
together with a copy of my new and interesting booklet: “Catarrh
—its Cause, Symptoms and Treatment.”
HERBERT HERDER, 2 Bridge Street, Sydney.
_ Jor
CONSTI PATSOIS
Hunyadi Janos Nalural Aoerient Water will be found the safest and most
trustworthy remedy for Gout, Rheumatism, Liver Complaints, Indigestion,
Obesity, Hemorrhoids, and a host of other minor maladies that spring
from Constipation.
Take a wineglassful every morning on ar’f.irg, before breakfast. It is
quite inexpensive, and all chemists se'l it.
The Jobless Multitude.
Mention begins to be made, in a casual
sort of way, of the okl-, old, very old sub-
ject of “the unemployed.” It isn’t a large
problem yet, still it was recently stated
that certain unions, with a total member-
ship of 262,000, had 15,500 jobless persons
on their books. Nearly one-third of these
were said to be on strike, while over two-
thirds suffered from plain joblessness. A
certain amount of wailing arose over this
circumstance, yet it is difficult to see where
any legitimate wail comes in. Despite the
boom and the fuss and the city congestion
and the inflated price of land, the jobless
condition seems, especially in N.S.W.,
wholly natural and reasonable. In the
year 1904 Australia imported goods to the
value of £37,000,000, which was £37,000,000
worth of work which its people didn’t have.
The amount was considerable, yet Australia
made some pretence of paying its way in
1904. In 1913 the Commonwealth imported
goods to the value of £79,700,000 and that
was £79,700,000 worth of work which its
people didn’t have. With an increase of
£42,700.000 per annum in the amount of
work which the people didn’t have it was
quite certain that the unemployed problem
would turn up sooner or later. The goods
which were sent abroad to balance the im-
ports and to cover, in addition, interest on
this country’s public and private foreign lia-
bilities, grew, between 1904 and 1913, from
£57,500,000 to £78,500.000 ; so, as far as
trade was concerned, the work which the
Commonwealth did increased by £21,000,000,
while the work that it didn’t, or that it neg-
lected to do, increased by £42,000,000. In
fact, the work that it did for export was so
far short of the amount that it should have
done, if it wanted to pay for its foreign pur-
chases and to meet the interest on its for-
eign debts, that it had to borrow some
£17,000,000 to square the account. That
is to say, it handed down a new bill for
£17,000,000 for posterity to tackle in the
future, rather than have £17.000,000 worth
of honest work and honest wages in the im-
mediate present. A certain element of
decay must show itself in. a community
that does such things. If a country bor-
rows £17,000,000 in a year to pay for lack of
employment it is liable to get the article.
Also, it deserves to get it. The boom in
unemployment is probably just starting.
Presently, with any sort of luck, it should
become a great: boom. The old man will
lose his tailoring or bootmaking job, and go
around in imported pants and footwear, so
that the infant may, later on, have to pay
for his disreputable father’s outfit. It may
be rough on the infant, but meantime the
old man is busy trying to make the bit of
work which he hasn’t sold to the rich im-
porter. go round, by cutting down hours and
pushing up wages. And every time he
pushes up wages without a corresponding
push up in the tariff he increases the
chances of the rich importer, and adds to
the amount of employment which isn’t here,
though it ought to be. Comparing the
year 1913 with 1912, the increase of popu-
lation was 26,000 less. The total stock of
sheep, cattle and pigs diminished. The
exports diminished.; The imports increased.
The amount added to the public debt was
the biggest in Australia’s record. With all
these diseases coming on the country at once
lack of employment becomes inevitable. The
country is paying for the joy of losing its
billet, or at least it is leaving the bill for
loss of billet to its young son, and its baby
daughter. So it naturally loses its billet.
„ « T
“0.K.” reports some hard sense:—
Von Goes, Consul-General for Sweden in these
parts, nurses two subjects next his heart —one of
them commerce between the two countries, the other
the importation of immigrants to Australia. Whereas
this country’s direct imports from Sweden amount
to £750.000 a year, its direct exports thereto are
inconsiderable. Sweden uses Australian wool and
frozen meat, but it gets them by way of Britain, and
thus both consumer and supplier are taxed by a
superfluous middleman. The Swedish Consul’s
other pet subject is of more general concern. Speak-
ing as one Who doesn’t favor the emigration of any
able-bodied citizens from Sweden (which needs all
the workers it can raise at present), he suggests
that no Australian Government has hitherto begun
to go the right way to procure a large flow of immi-
grants from those countries that have workers to
spare. If Australia wants new arrivals they should
be welcomed as desirable strangers. It is sheer folly
for a nation which spends a lot of money in advertis-
ing for immigrants abroad to treat" the immi-
grant, when he does arrive, in such a manner as
to rob itself of his subsequent gratuitous advertis-
ing. Not what the Agent-General in London says
about Australia, but what the recent immigrant has
to say, is the thing that matters. The desire of the
would-be immigrant is either quickened or deadened
by the reports of his fellow-countrymen who have
actually tried the new land, and one encouraging
report from “a man from our village” is worth two
tons of literature scattered by perfect strangers from
a London office. Australia thus far has made no
attempt to win the friendship of the desirable
stranger who comes with an idea of stopping for
good. Undesirable strangers of the Johnny class
have kindness and consideration thrust upon them ;
strangers of no social “standing”-—assisted immi-
grants and others —are coldly regarded as new-
chums, not to say “blanky newchums,” and made
to feel rather like lone intruders in a hostile
country. And because the public is unsympathetic
to home-sick new arrivals the Government which
imports them is more called upon to make a show
of paternal interest in their welfare. The value of
“first impressions” is commonly admitted to be
great; yet in this important national business no
Government makes it its business to see that the
first impressions are favorable.
Tiie Prohibition crowd in Maoriland has
drawn the sword, and cast away the scab-
hard, and has thrown its hat into the ring,
and burned its boats, and let loose the pup of
war. Hitherto the law has required a three-
fifths vote (60 people out of 100)
to abolish drink in any district, and the
same lot to re-establish drink. The idea was,
of course, that if a majority of one could blot
out beer, and at next election a majority of
one could blot beer in again, the bars would
keep opening and shutting like a devil burst-
ing through a trapdoor in a pantomime and
no one would know where he were. But
now the Prohibitionists propose to repair the
law so that 55 votes out of 100 will rub beer
off the map, not only in isolated districts, but
over the whole archipelago, and they seem
strong enough to do it. So presently, in all
probability, the loan drunk will be the only
bust left to Maoriland, and then the tourist
will sidle off and the distinguished
visitor will stay away, and when the
next contingent comes back blithered from
the Boer war it will be nut in gaol instead of
being received with food and applause.


The Recognised Leading House for all
SMOKERS & SHAVERS’ REQUISITES
PIPES
H
I
G
H
S.x.lj. Pipes, made from finest quality old
briar root, with superior hand-cut Para vul-
canite mouthpieces. Heavy Silver mounts.
All shapes 3/. each (post free)
m
m
“Goudron,” finest quality
Natural Block
Meerschaum Pipes.
THE
SWEETEST
AND
COOLEST
SMOKING
PIPES EVER PRODUCED.
Para Vulcan Ste Mouthpieces, in case,
S/G, 10/Gs 12/G, 14/G, IG/G, 21/-
each (pest free).
Natural Pressed Amber Mouthpieces,
in case.
12/G, 14/6, 16/C, 18/G, 25/- each
(post flree).
CIGARS
QUALITE
DE LUXE.
"Golden Key”
Cigars, of exquisite
aroma and infinite
charm.
The Standard
of Luxury
in Smoking.
m
m
Put up in cedar cabinets containing —
-25 cigars, 11/6; 50 cigars, 22/6
(post free).
Sample boxes of 5 cigars, 2/6 (post
free).
CIGARETTES.
De'.ightful, Fascinating
“Three Witches”
Cigarettes, made from
selected, sun-ripe
Virginian Tobacco.
Finest quality.
5/- per 100 (post
free;.
/n
Jhree Witches
<s*3?
%
&sonsL t o
TOBACCOS.
‘Sunol,” highest grade Virginian, awarded 4
gold medals. Dark or Light. In plug' or
cut, 6/- per lb. (post free).
‘Lonus” Smoking Mixture, choicest tobaccos,
skilfully blended. Put up in • 2oz. tins.
8/6 per lb. (post free).
Tobacco Pouches.
H
A
N
D
Y
mm-
*}*<
w
m
WM
iss
EW&S
m
i
G
0
M
P
A
C
T
Wallet Pouch, Split Calf 2/9 each
~ „ Heal Morocco .. 3/0
„ „ Calf Crocodile .. 4/0 »
„ „ Gazelle .">/- »
„ „ Velvet Calf .... 0/0 ><
«
i
POCKET LIGHTERS.
The “Sunol” Pocket
Lighter. Every smoker
should have one. Simple
in construction. Nothing
to get out of order.
2/- each (post free).
CIGAR and CIGARETTE
HOLDERS.
Amber Cigar Holders, silver rim,
in ease, 0/6, 7/6 each.
Amber Cigar Holders, sold rim,
ill case, 10/6, 11/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, silver
rim, in case 4/- 4/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, soW rim, in
case 7/(5. S/0 each.
SHAVING SETS.
N
O
T
H
N
G
n ■■ wsmag
m
B
E
l
T
E
Shaving Sets, comprising 1 renowned C. 8.8.
Razor, I C. 8.8. Razor Strop, 1 Badger Hair
Shaving Brush, and stick Williams's Soap—
-18/6 (post free).
R
R
E
RAZORS
Q
u
A
L
I
T
Y
The “Hitite” Razor, pronounced by experts
to be absolutely perfect, None to
equal it. Kept in good order for 2 years,
free of charge—
Vulcanite Handle 7/6 each (post free).
Ivory Handle •••■ 10/6 each (post free).
SAFETY RAZORS.
The Celebrated “Auto Strop” Safety
Razor, complete with 12 blades and strop,
in leather case 22/6 (post free).
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney
Branches : CITY, SUBURBS and NEWCASTLE.
Have You Ever Calculated
how much money you lose every year because your addition
and calculations are still made by the slow mental method?
Avoid errors and worry, and save time by employing
in your office the
Adds
Multiplies
m
Divides
Subtracts
Pounds, Shillings, Ponce and Farthings.
Errors are often costly, and mistakes
made in casting up long columns of figures
in the old way are always probable. With
the use of the Comptometer errors cannot
creep into your work.
The illustration shows the Compto-
meter in use. It is operated by
Keys like a typewriter, bu’,t is
much simpler and easier to
learn, as it has only 11 differ-
ent keys.
Write for Free Boole, “Fiapid
Mechanical Calculation,” and
othcr particulars.
&
!
FELT & TARRANT MFQ. CO.,
London, Berlin, Paris, St. Petersburg, Vienna, Buenos Aires, New York, etc.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—PEACOCK BROS., 214-216 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
IWHY NOT
BE TALLER?]
2/6 per Pau
post free,
Leather 1
Gcurk
Cork Wedge
F<dt
Fstetener
Gilbert's /Adjust-
able Ha :1 Cushions
for Ladi ;s and. Gen-
tlemen. Very easy
and comfortable. Improve the balance of the ba
and soft, made of leather, cork and felt, under
Adjustable to any height by oork wedge. Doctoi
recommend these supports to ease the action e
State size of boot when ordering. Obtainable
The Union Co.. 299 Elizabeth St., 1
ly. Light
an ounce,
s strongly
f the feet,
only from
lelbourne.
ACETYLENE
JHE SUNGLARE SEARCHLIGHT.
lDazzlingly Brilliant. Very simple and safe.
jfFor hand or vehicle. Costs less than a half-
penny for 12 hours’ light. Can be carried
|in pocket when not in use. Weighs only
[six ounces. Large container, can be readily
filled .and emptied without soiling hands.
Nothing to get out of order, no valves to regulate,
no trouble, no danger. Handsome appearance,
brightly nickel-plated. Better than an electric
pocket lamp and cheaper. Only 2/6. carnage]
paid. Tha Union Co.. 299 Elizabeth St., Melb.
m
Fairbanks-morse
MARINE ENGINES
For Pleasure and Work Boats
Start easily, run smoothly, develop full rale-*
power. Simple, compact. All parts inter-
changeable. Remarkable for their reliability
and economy. High-speed Engines, 3%
to 24 H.l*. Slow-speed Engines, 7
to 15 H.P.
Ask for Catalog.
CV 1939.
FAIRBANKS-MORSE Stationary Engines
Operate on Kerosene, Petrol (Gasoline) or
Distillate. Stationary and Portable sizes,
2 to 200 H.P.
Ask for Catalog AL 1939.
FAIRBANKS-MORSE Eclipse Engines
Small, sturdy Engines, especially suited for
pumping or running light machinery. Simple,
compact. Two sizes. Will operate any
windmill pump. Ask for Catalog 1939 VR.
Fairbanks, Morse & Co.
Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
AGENTS-
C. H. Relph, Webster & Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, N.S.W. Brisbane, Queensland.
Type “K”
VJ h.p.
F.n
Malloch Bros.,
Perth, W.A.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd.,
SELL WOOL, & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OL'’ NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posts d. Merrie
England, Gg. How to Gkt Rich, Is posted/ Dr. Lamar-
■iink's Sii.knt Friknd, Is Gd. Ned Dona klly’s Art
ok ISoxiNG, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Danch, Is, post. How to Wrestle,, Is. Moi.ii
Fi.andkrs, a rare hook by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. AH Zola’s,
including Nana, Is Gd eaeh, posted. Educ. ating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made East, Id. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to StA iesgthkn
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Gd posted. Riddle ok the
Universe, Sd, and all the Rational I’kess .Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. i/G.
Joys ok Life, Is Gd. Nigger Stump Spkkghes, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3. i. Mechanics’
Workshop llandybook, 1/3. Quadrille < lai,l Book, 2/-.
Adventures ok a Flirt, 1/3. Bari,orTr icks &(1 ames,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Mi llkp.’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by llubt rt Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is < sd. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Scif, ice ok Likin
10s Gd. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests b ir minerals’),
3s Gd. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Bo ok ok Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: pi >et, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figure! Is in.
Equality, !>d. Will Bower (Personal Ma snktism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book ok Strength, Is posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
ok Paris, Is Gd. History ok the Rod (Fla gellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practicai vGas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Nor Guilty (Blatch-
fortl), 9d. The Art op Jiu-Jitsu, 9d an i Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, Gd. Britain .»s the
British, Gd. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train kor all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
is 3d. Theory of Value, Is Gd. French Pc iushino
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taug. *t„ 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d.
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painti and
Papering, Is 2d Prop. Fowler's Human Sc W«,
)0s Gd. Australian Pastrycook's Guide, j * 'Gd.
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Panes.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand Questions that occur to the minds of young' and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS- LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Skcrkts and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmkrisr, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, is 3d posted. Spbf.ches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is: post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Evkry Man His Own Schoolmaster.
Is posted. Cabikkt Makkrs' Handybook, Is 3d
COMPLKTK BOOKKKKPING. 2s. LIFE OF DEEMING,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. \Vannan's Engine Driver’s Guide,
os Cd posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets. Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. 25 Tears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
:
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY".
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to tlie Stage, Is
posted. New Thicks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Odd Uusii Songs, Is 3d nose. L>i;. Milford's Mid-
wipe’s Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/0. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions ok the
Ring, is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Cour.t op England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
I.NGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO ReAD HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievassk’s Advice to a
Wipe, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bknnarp. Macfadden's Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. This Wife's Handbook,
is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, IfiOO iDus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
.mos and Electric Motors. Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
ASSISTANT AND COMPLETE MECHANIC, 10.16 pages, Cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com!
plete), Is fid posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DaY.’


Another Triumph for
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
frTSA:
m
'
Mrs. A. M. HAMILTON,
(from a photo.)
“For months I had a very hard,
dry cough, causing deafness in the
ears, and my throat and chest were
very much inflamed and sore. I suf-
fered with loss of voice and had no
sleep at night and no rest in the
day with this severe racking cough,”
writes Mrs. A. >l. Hamilton, 8 Rail-
way Street, Caversham, Dunedin,
NT.Z. “I tried every remedy I could
Ihink of and those recommended by
friends, but all to no purpose. I was
very much distressed and began to
think it might turn to something
serious, when one day I by chance
saw in the paper a remedy adver-
tised called Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery for Coughs and Colds, so I
bought a bottle, and I am very
thankful I did, for by the time the
tirst bottle was finished my cough
was a great deal better, and all
soreness had left my throat and
chest. After using two large bottles
of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery I
was cured completely, with no trace
or cold left, and 1 am now in per-
fect health again, and think it is my
duty to let all sufferers like myself
know of that really true and won-
derful medicine. Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery, for all Colds and Chest
complaints, for I am sure there could
not be a better medicine.”
SAFEGUARDS the HOME
Winter is now with us. anrl with its arrival we are liable to sudden chills
and colds. The time for action is upon the appearance of the first symptoms,
when you should at once take Dr. Sheldon's New Discovery in teaspoonful doses
every ‘three hours, with 1 an additional dose at bedtime, when you will experience
a wonderful soothing effect upon the mucous membranes, easing the throat and
chest, thus enabling you to enjoy a good night’s rest. Dr. Sheldon s New Dis-
covery stops the cough and cold, and prevents any serious complications, it is
unequalled for influenza and bronchitis, croup or whooping-cough, for while it
is most powerful in its action, yet it can be administered to the smallest child
with the same safetv as to the adult. Dr. Sheldons New Discovery is sold
everywhere at 1 /(>. or in larger bottles, holding two and a half times the quantity,
for 3/-. It has been used by thousands of people, and while we have received
hundreds of voluntary testimonials for this great remedy, we have yet to hear ot
a single case where it 'has not been entirely satisfactory.
D? Sheldons Voijghs
NewDiscoveryV^ lds
I
mn
each
<5
TABLETS
Grains
Kephaldol
Stonrs
quick ant mu h e>t»<t; .«i opuciajii ? 'oitis
WrUIENZA.RHLiiKATISM.UjNRAeO SCUTKi.PAm't
HEKSTHUATICW. (TVtRS, MX SEVF.BI NtavXPXilU
PRICE I'e
INSTANTANEOUSLY DISPERSES
GUARANTEED
to be absolutely
HARMLESS
PAIN
Guaranteed under
the Pure Food Law
ofN.S.W. S. 1259
THOSE who suffer from the torturing pains of RHEUMATISM,
NEURALGIA, SCIATICA, LUMBAGO, HEADACHE, IN-
FLUENZA, or any of the hundred other painful complaints
which attack mankind, will welcome the introduction of DR.
STOUR’S KEPHALDOL, the great pain-killer. Unlike many
other preparations, KEPHALDOL can be used with absolute safety,
35
i
ri/2
without the slightest fear of its affecting
the heart’s action or setting up drug habits.
KEPHALDOL is not an experiment: it is
the accepted safe, speedy and sure remedy
for any of the complaints indicated above.
You have proof of this in the fact that
KEPHALDOL has earned the endorse-
ment of thousands of the cleverest doctors
at home and abroad, as well as that of the
famous Vienna Professors of Medicine.
So speedy is KEPHALDOL in action that
in very many cases it produces the desired
relief within a few minutes. That it can
be used with safety is shown by the follow-
ing report from Dr. Hans Fritsch. In re-
porting on a large number of cases, this
specialist says -
“We never had occasion to observe alarming
symptoms in regard to heart collapse. I have,
however, observed a number of cases in tvhich
Kephaldol effected an improvement of the heart
generally .”
That yon can benefit positively by the use of KEPIIALDOL is shown by
the fact that it has been sriven in many cases to patients whose constitutions could
not tolerate other remedies, in each case without ill after-effects. _ Remember,
KEPIIALDOL has not failed to alleviate pain, and in no case has it injuriously
affected the patient.
Sold in Tubes by Chemists and Storekeepers. Prices f/6 and j/6.
If you have any difficulty in obtaining a supply locally, send postal note or
stamps for value of tube desired, and same will be sent by return post prepaid.
KEPHALDOL CO., 30 Ash Street, SYDNEY.
KL4BOI
A Celestial Adventure.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rnHE painters left the ladder there,
A ladder long and thin.
It seemed like a celestial stair
That led away from sin,
A pleasant pathway to the sky
That any passing wight might try.
My soul was lifted up with beer—
Cold beer that truth derides,
And gives a vision large and clear
Wliere never shadow hides;
But everything that is not true
Is outlined faithfully in blue.
Between the ladder and the wet
That late had splashed my soul,
It seemed an easy thing to get
Up to the heavenly goal.
Where ancient Abraham reclines
And one star in his whiskers shines.
With courage high I set my boot
Hard on the lowest rung.
Intent upon that higher loot
That sainted bards have sung.
If I could climb up through the air
A crown and harp should be my share.
The moon would light my upward way,
A pleasant moon was she;
About her little stars at play
Winked as they glanced at me ;
I fancied that I soon might meet
Their owners in the golden street.
lip, up, from rung to rung I went,
A mile or two it seemed.
Beneath my weight the ladder bent,
The chill airs round me streamed —
Oh, it was good to climb and rise
By that steep pathway to the skies.
Perhaps it was my weight of sin,
Perhaps my load of joy,
But Heaven seemed harder now to win
Than when I was a boy.
Though high and holy my desire
I felt my legs begin to tire.
The spider Robert Bruce observed,
That tried and tried again
A kingly brain to effort nerved,
As Mrs. Cook made plain ;
I thought about Eliza’s tale
When first my knees began to fail.
“Up, up the insect went once more !”
I struggled bravely on,
A window on the golden shore
Above my forehead shone,
And then the Blessed Damosel
Looked out and everything was well.
She leaned across the bar of Heaven,
Three lilies in her hand.
The hair-stars that she wore were seven,
Marking her special brand.
I looked aloft and said, “My dear,
The night is fine, mine is a beer.”
It may be that she drew the draught
From the deep wells of light,
But as she looked on me she laught
And everything in sight
With sheer enjoyment twisted round
To hear that rich melodious sound.
From the steep pathway of the sky
She drew me gently in.
The room was carpeted and dry,
And free from trace of sin.
Three angels sat at supper there
Looking quite nice in evening wear.
Some portions of a heavenly cray
Were singing on their plates,
They catch the crimson things they say
Near to the Pearly Gates.
While shallows of the jasper lake
Are full of oysters all may take.
These things may really not occur
Exactly as I think,
But it was good to sit by her
Who gives the angels drink,
To watch the pictures in the room
And know my soul had ’scaped its doom.
The Blessed Damozel and I
_Were soon the best of friends;
We sat on cushions of the sky
Just where the moonlight ends;
With rapture not devoid of haste
I put my arm around her waist.
Some flights of seraphs came and went
With giggles on the stair.
But all my happy soul was pent
’Neath balmy wafts of hair;
The Blessed Damozel had lips
Like red geranium petal tips.
She lent her lips for me to use
When I should feel inclined ;
Tall cherubs passed in threes and twos
But did not seem to mind
Dur clear souls spooning in the night
Beneath a pink electric light.
I might have there remained in bliss
A thousand years or so
Exchanging happy kiss for kiss
Till it was time to go.
But some large person winged and stout
Shook his wide plumes and blew me out.
The wind was like a cyclone blast,
As Lucifer I fell,
I feared that I might bump at last
Upon the lid of Hell;
Rut kindly fate on my behoof
Fixed matters with a laundry roof.
She set me gently on the ridge,
And when the morning broke
I was as one who forms a bridge
Across a gulf of smoke.
I found my seat distinctly hot
Upon that cheerless chimney pot.
The painter came and took me down —
A kindly soul and brave.
Who volunteered for half-a-crown
My fallen soul to save—-
And on my homeward way at seven
I looked aloft and sighed for Heaven.
. M.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.
Charity.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
UNDER the new-leaved oaks, tracing
their lucent green against the elec-
tric lights besieged by whirling moths,
Companies A, B, C and D went through their
drill. Compulsory service was made glad
and voluntary by the spirit of emulation and
c-amaiaderie that grew in the touch of shoul-
der to shoulder, the common aim of regular
marching and the sound of tramping feet.
Everything was young—the leaves and the
boy soldiers and the moon and the night.
Everything was strong and decisive —the out-
lines of the Moreton Bay ligtrees, the search-
ing lights, the stride of the companies.
And Westall and his girl were young and
strong and handsome, and respectful or
themselves and of each other. And the regi-
ment’s baud, playing farther east in the
Domain, filled the overflowing of the night
with beauty and romance.
Westall and his girl, seated on a bench
under a tree, felt all that courageous life
about them, lie had told her that he had
that day been "raised” another 450 a year,
and she listened to the thrilling exploit with
the admiration the degenerate Desdemona
gave to the stories of the alien Moor. And
then she told him of the number of words
she had typed that day at Is. (Id. a thou-
sand, and he regarded the achievement as
epic.
"Good girl.” he said. “We’ll soon be able
to be married.”
“Oh, go on!”
‘Wes, we will.”
“Oh, not for a long time. We’re so young.”
“No fear. I’m 24 and you’re 20. And I
was born when my father was 23.”
“You mustn’t say that.”
“Well, I won’t—but you know. Suppose
we were married. I needn’t come and walk
about waiting for your mother to let you
out, and you needn’t be too frightened of
your father to ask me to your place. We’d
have a place of our own then, wouldn’t we?”
“Yes, I suppose.”
“And I'd look after you and love you till
it was time to die.”
“You’re a dear boy.”
“And you’re all the angels that were ever
kidnapped out of Heaven. And I’d go round
introducing you, ‘My wife, the angel, came
down in the last shower.’ ”
“Silly boy!”
lie put his arm around her and kissed her
without a word. The jackal of the park
who walked in the shadow saw the innocent
action, and took heart at the thought of trade
and finance being toward.
“Form fours —form twos —slope arms—
right about—march !”
The companies of Australia’s hope moved
off the grass and marched eastward down
the reverberant paths of asphalt. The dis-
tant band began to wail —
Bluebell, my heart is breaking;
I’ve come to say good-bye.
Westall and his girl followed to the great
avenue of Moreton Bay figs that line the
carriage road, and in the darkest places of
the grass plots before the carriage road is
reached he clasped her waist, and her head
found his shoulder, so that they walked with
difficulty. But they were not conscious of
walking at all. The sense of touch was subli-
mated till it became almost ethereal. The
soft carpet of the grass was buoyant as air,
and the air bore them up as if it were salt-
water. They murmured plans to one an-
other, and the jackal, skulking in the shadow
of the trees, chuckled to himself cruelly as if
he were a starved hunter and they the care-
less birds entering the net.
A distant word or two of command to the
retiring companies. The band wailed its
pathos to march-time :
Good-bye, my bluebell,
Farewell to you.
“Let me go, Jack! Take me home! It’s
late!”
“We’re walking that way all the time,
sweetheart. A kiss—just one more.”
“No, no.”
“Yes —one.”
“There then.”
Mid campfires gleaming,
And shot and shell,
I will be dreaming
Of my own Blue Bell.
“You’ve crushed my hat, Jack. Let’s walk
quicker.”
But they walked still slowly, and the jackal
in the shadow chuckled again.
“Bli’me,” he said. “He looks a toff. Nothin’
under a quid for me.”
The captains and the shouting were lost in
the night as the lovers walked towards the
Woolloomooloo gate. By a bench under a
great eucalypt, growing bravely from a rift in
a tremendous outcrop of sandstone, Westall
halted, begging for a minute, only another
minute, before the tramcar and her father’s
house claimed her. They sat down quite
calmly and contentedly, and very near to-
gether. And the jackal, as one who sees the
reward of Enterprise and Industry within
reach, crept behind them in the cover of the
great tree, and settled himself within five feet
of the bench, waiting to dash upon the stage
in the role of outraged Virtue and rinar the
curtain down with a demand for damages.
Below lay the gleaming sea with the masses
of figtree. foliage between; Woolloomooloo
ugliness was softened by the night; the fairy
lights of the distant steamers shafted the
water tremulously; the South Head threw
wavering bands from its sectors, and star-
shine was over all.
“We’ll be happy,” said Westall. “We'll
have a house —all our own —in time.”
“Oh, dear ! That will be nice.”
“I’ll make the plans myself. We’ll build
it with a little quadrangle, so that every
room can have a door on both sides.”
“Won’t the draught be too strong, Jack?”
“No. Fresh air never killed anybody. And
I’ll plant flametrees and flowering gums and
jacarandas and poincianas—you ought to see
them in Brisbane —and a bougainvillaea on
the north end, and magnolias in the quad-
rangle.”
“That will be lovely, dear. How do you
think of it all?”
“Oh, it just comes to me when I think
of what I want to make home like for you,
I’d like to steal the Garden of Eden, but, as
(Continued on newt page.)


Backache Days and Backache Nights
Do you realise that Pains in the Back, Limbs or Joints, Weak Heart, Irritability,
Languor, Sleeplessness, Urinary Troubles, are Symptoms of Kidney Weakness?
4
*
A
1 Every
Picture
Tells a
Story "
Kidney disease comes on quietly and may take you unawares, for often
its symptoms are put down to other causes—a serious mistake in many cases.
Karly symptoms are pain in the back and groin, bladder irritation, stiff or
aching limbs, scarcity or excess of urine, sediment, night sweats—chilly, moist
or swollen extremities —drowsiness, blurred sight, dizziness and morbid depression.
For when diseased the kidneys fail to purify the blood, so that uric acid
and waste matter colled! in the system, causing rheumatism, stone, dropsy,
gravel, sciatica, lumbago and other complications.
- Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are a tonic for the kidneys, which they
heal and strengthen, enabling these all-important organs to rid the system of
poisonous deposits that are setting up disease throughout the body.
Keep the kidneys well and they will keep you well, but you must get
the right medicine.
SERIOUS KIDNEY TROUBLE CURED.
SYDNEY WOMAN’S TESTIMONY.
Mrs. W. Benn, 12 Turner Street, Redfern, Sydney, says'“l am quite convinced that I owe my
life to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, for this remedy cured me of dropsy and other symptoms of
disordered kidneys. My ill-health started with backache, then I got urinary trouble and dropsy. My
back was always aching, the sharp, shooting pains being so bad I would have hot flannels put on to
try and get ease. The secretions were thick, and caused intense pain. I was fit for nothing, feeling
tired out always, and I had bad headaches. My legs and feet swelled to twice their natural size ; 1
could not put my boots on, and I practically lost the use of my legs. 1 was really very ill, and
nobody thought I would ever got well. I tried every remedy I could hear of, but got no better. The
doctors whom I consulted could do me no good, and gave up my case as hopeless. A friend advised
me to use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and I procured some. The first few bottles gave me
relief, and 12 bottles completed my cure. I am now quite free of the dropsy and backache, and the
secretions are regulated. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have cured me completely and permanently,
for I have been quite well for two and a half years now. I cannot sufficiently praise Doan’s'Back-
ache Kidney Pills, they saved my life.”
Mrs. Benn makes a second statement five years later: —“l am pleased to add that 1 have had no
return of dropsy or any other symptom of kidney trouble since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured
me over seven years ago.”
m
Backache
Kidney
PILLS
At all Chemists and Stores,
2jQ per bottle; or from Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
I can’t, I’ll grow a little Paradise of my
own.”
“The bloke’s balmy,” said tlie impatient
jackal to himself. "And she’s dippy, too,
lissinin’ to all that guff.”
“And a tiled roof, Jack 7”
"No, a green roof —copper, and let it oxi-
dise, you know. But only a little dome, so
that the bougainvillaea can flame up against
it. Most of the roof will be flat.”
“Why?”
“Send I may live,” muttered the jackal.
“He’s flat enough for anythin'.”
“On hot nights we’ll eat up on the roof
and look down at the harbor, just as we’re
doing now—but higher up, near Mosman.”
“Oh, it’s too beautiful to believe. Why,
that would be Heaven.”
"This is.”
“Ivissin’ at last,” said the jackal. “Time
enough, too. I want to go ’ome.”
“Don’t, Jack. Well, dear, just one then.
And I must go.”
"Yes, sweetheart.”
They stood up and moved away. Trem-
bling with the rage of impending loss—feel-
ing like a draper who is despoiled by shop-
lifters—the jackal darted before and inter-
cepted them. The girl uttered a little scream
and clung to Westall’s arm.
“I seen yer!” said the jackal. “I seen
yer carryin’ on.”
There’s nothing more like guilt faced with
a true accusation than innocence falsely
charged. Indeed Innocence looks the more
guilty. Westall stammered in confusion.
The girl almost fainted, but clung to his
arm convulsively.
"Come on! Dub up! Gimme a quid, or
I’ll tell the p’leece!”
“What! Why! What do you mean,
man ?”
' I seen yer,” said the brute leering horri-
bly.
The girl felt as if she were dying of shame.
Wild rage tilled Westall. In another in-
stant he became cold and decided, and
walked on—paltering, sparring for time.
“I—l haven’t got much,” he said, and
the jackal believed that he had won.
‘Dub up,” he said, walking with Westall,
who edged him into the light. With ltis
left arm supporting The Beloved he put the
right into his pocket. The jackal smirked
and lifted his head to praise his own cun-
ning and in a flash the hand was withdrawn
from the pocket. It was a handful, not of
money, but of pain. The fist landed on the
point of the prowler’s jaw. He had no time
to shriek. His heels flew up and his head
crashed upon the sandstone, and he went
out.
“Run, dear; run,” said Westall, and the
girl found new strength and ran.
They slackened their pace by the Wool-
loomooloo gate, and the soft-hearted Westall
had time to think.
“I must put you in a cab,” he said.
“Why? Oh, why?”
“His head crashed terribly. I may have
killed him.”
“The brute.”
“But to kill a man, that’s terrible.”
He trembled at the thought of it. The
stern man of action became again the
dreamer of a house with a quadrangle set
with magnolias and poetry on a Hat roof,
and purple bougainvillaea growing against a
copper-green dome.
“I might halve killed him,” he said. ”1
must go back.”
She could not gainsay him then. He found
a cab and said good-night, bought a flask of
appropriately bad brandy for the man he
had killed, and climbed the asphalt to the
Domain.
He lifted the jackal, whose breath smelled
as if he had been murdered not so recently
as memory would swear to. Then as Westall
poured a little of the acrid spirit between
his lips he was joined by two large women
with a perambulator—fairly divided between
a sleeping child arid the family laundry—a
tubby old man. and a tall, thin, solemnly-
drunken young man who was eating trotters
from a paper bag. A street accident is the
grand opera of such, and they asked for the
plot anti the cast all loudly and all to-
gether.
“I found him here a little while ago, and
I went for brandy,” said Westall.
The jackal groaned, and Westall con-
tinued hurriedly: “If yoif don’t mind holding
him and giving him the brandy I’ll go for the
ambulance.”
“Righto,” said the gentleman with the
trotters. “Gimme the barrel.”
The jackal groaned again, and Westall,
hurriedly handing the spirit and giving up
his place to the self-important and solemn
drunk, walked off’ slowly enough to prevent
suspicion being excited and quickly enough
to keep up his character as the compassion-
ate stranger in search of help.
And then he heard the jackal cough, and
he moved more quickly into the shadow.
There he ran.
“Have a swig, mate,” said the man with
the trotters.
The jackal groaned, drank as ordered,
coughed and cursed them all. Then he sat
up and groaned again, and tenderly rubbed
his injured head.
“Who did it, mate?”
“Oo found me?”
One of the fat women became shrill and
eloquent.
“A beautiful man,” she said. “A Chris-
tian —that’s what he is. He found y’ lyin’
there dead an’ wont away and bought brandy
to bring yer to.”
“Oo did it, mate?”
“A big bloke. Oh, me ’ead! About as
big as two p’leecemen. Says to me lie’s
goin’ to have a flat roof on a round ’ouse
made o’ copper, ’its me on the ’ead with a
mallet and steals two pound. Oh, me ’ead !”
“Nev’mind. The young feller will bring
the ambyerlance.”
“Oh, will ’e? Oh. me ’ead!”
“Yes —an’ the p’leece ’ll come an’ make
yer comfortable.”
“Eh, what? I don’t wan’ to be made
comf’t’ble. I’ll get ’ome now—gimme tli’
brandy. Oh, me ’ead ! If I c’d only see the
cow that ’it me! Oh, th’ world’s ’ard on a
poor bloke!”
“But what about the beautiful man what
brought y’ th’ brandy?” said the fat woman.
“A good S’maritun he was.”
"Hol'd bless ’im,” said the jackal after
drinking from the flask and tenderly caress-
ing the bump on the back of his skull as
he staggered down the path. “Gord bless
’im....but I’d like t’ see th’ cow that hit
me.”
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Imitation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HORI paid his billiard score and re-
, . . ~ •*. ,1
moved Ins sporting suit a d
person it encased into the darkness,
“Great coves the Maories,” commented
the shabby little man. who, for the past ten
, , , , , , • ..... *-„i,in cr Hio
minutes, had been absoiled »
flies run races on the bread and cheese at the
far end of the bar. “Beggars for imitating
the pakeha. Drinks the same tipple; cuts
his corns with a razor; drives a motor-car,
, . ... „ , ■. 0.,+
and stops his teeth with go (. > " K ‘
terers of the white man, except in the art ot
breeding fleas and blowing down the girl’s
neck. Styles hereditary in these cases.”
lie sizzled some soda-water into the glass
of vellow stuff, bit at it, and wiped his lips.
,: T . . . . . „
I once put m an hour or two at a native
settlement and had the time of my life.
Brown-eyed girls, bare legs and dried shark
—a great combination. Kind of harbor in a
gale of wind it was to me. I’d been out on
the road with a side-show—‘Brofessor
Slidem’s Lot’s Wife Illusion Co.’ I played
the pillar of salt in the fraud, and it was
astonishing the effect the star performer
had on the rest of the company. Dry! We
drank by day, by night we drank, and the
boss at the pubs we visited worked overtime
breaking down the whisky.”
The barmaid, hearing the last word of the
sentence, poured out two more potions, and
the siphon sizzled again.
“Poor business we played to; but for a
montli wo jogged along, and chased away
the animal that prowled about the back of
the tent. Then the salt, and the thirst, and
the Scotch cookies conspired to defeat us.
They won easily, and we emulated the sons
of the desert. A week later, somewhere be-
tween two towns about a thousand, miles
apart, I overhauled the treasury. A silvered
penny, an imitation ten-dollar bill—one of
those old “Dollar Princess” advertisements
—and ten pence in coin of the realm, did not
spell bed and breakfast and a beer. There
was nothing left me but the hope that the
pubs at the next town might be uneducated,
So I ‘padded’ it on and walked and walked
until my throat was lonely—so lonely that I
commeneed to think of a nice, clean way of
dying. Then, on rounding a turn in the
road, I spotted a Maori village. The sight
did the Coroner out of a guinea. Whew!”
I took the outburst of air as a hint, and
the yellow stuff was poured out once again,
He still had traces of salt about him.
“It was not a very attractive place,” he
went on, after saying “sluek.” “A few fowls
pecked at a heap of rotten kumeras; some
dogs snoozed in the shade of a tottering ti-
tree fence, and a score of sharks, hanging
from a pole shrouded with big. blue flies!
most literally hummed. Of a long chap, who
reclined near the fish, I inquired the distance
to the nearest town.
"‘I dunno,’ he replied, squinting up at
the sun. ‘(food ’prse t’ree o’clock ; poor fel-
ler moren five hour, I tink. You got te
sikerette?’
“I hadn’t—unfortunately; but he didn’t
regret the fact a bit. He was a decent kind
of Maori, and escorted me inside the fence
and pointed out his whare. and the . spot
where Henare killed a pig at the last tangi.
Over by the meeting-house a few perspiring
individuals, fat, hot and greasy, blew down
some battered brass instruments and produced
a bewildering mixture of noises. A tattooed
old chap was standing beside a slab of rock
hung from an overhead staging. He appeared
to have his hands full of coins and bank
notes. This was interesting, and I asked
Hemi the why and the wherefore of the dis-
play. ‘Oh. that feller build te new church.
They gettim to lay te stone, eh. Put in te
utu —te money, te shirrin’, te polin', te halfer
karown —everyting underneath. All te same
te pakeha, eh?’
“I was not too sure about that —and I felt
that brummy dollar-bill in my pocket. True,
tbe white man, when laying a foundation
stone, was in the habit of placing bank notes,
coins of the realm and cheques—yes, that
was it —cheques. Er —did the old man have
a cheque to place beneath the stone? The
pakeha always saw to that. ‘My word, you
stand te game, ehoa,’ commented Hemi.
‘First time I hear ’bout te cheque. Taihoa,
I ask te ole feller.’
“He jabbered a string of noises at the
tattooed party, and the crowd seemed to get
interested. The band ceased its wailings
and butted in with questions. Soon half a
dozen persons were in the midst of a boiling
argument. Hemi sorted out tilings a bit for
my benefit, and explained that the natives
were desirous of doing exactly as the pakeha
in the matter of laying foundation stones.
They had plenty of money, lint, unfortu-
nately, none of the people had a cheque in
their possession. ‘Plenty hard luck to us, I
tink.’ he concluded.
“Exactly 1 So 1 respectfully requested
that I might, be allowed to offer the use of
such an article. It represented only a trivial
ten pounds, but might serve their purpose
well enough. Furthermore, on account of
their hospitality, I would accept nine
pounds in cash, for the cheque, thereby
donating a sovereign to the general fund.
Hemi talked to the crowd, and I shivered a
bit in the hope that they would bite. The
jabbering went on for a long time, and at
last the old fellow asked to see the cheque.
I handed over the ‘Dollar Princess’ adver-
tisement, pointing to the pale green ‘Ten’
thereon, which settled the business. He
passed me nine good golden sovereigns, and
I stayed just long enough to see the bit of
paper buried beneath half a ton of rock, and
hear the band play. Yes. thanks ! In a
medium glass this time. I’m thirsty.”
TE PANA.


m
.. i
From 7 to H.P.
No Carburetter or Vaporiser. No Ignitiop Apparatus,
Makes the following claims upon
your attention —
.1 —It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene),: and
other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the cylinder,
thus dispensing"with unreliable and inefficient
vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in con-
struction, there being no
electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that
electric generators and
centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 —No skilled labor is re-
quired, the supply of
fuel and lubricant
being all the atten-
tion necessary.
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
M
JSgS.
mm
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike. Wellington.
BOILER TROUBLES
and THEIR REMEDY
I
IN
flPtxioH
m
INU I A
BOILER
FLUID
Let Your Boilerman Make a Test
Give him a Two-gallon Drum of Apexior—see that he applies it
in the right way—and after a few months ask him if it has
not stopped corrosion and pitting—if there is more scale on the
parts not covered with Apexior—if the small amount of scale
adhering to the part that is covered with Apexior falls off with
the slightest tap—if he thinks the efficiency of the Boiler would
be increased by its exclusive use. We are willing to let Apexior
be judged by his answer. But send for a trial drum while you
think of it. •
Tried and Tested and Now Used Regularly by many of the
Largest Steam Users in Australia.
SOLE AGENTS
=
The Austral Engineering Supply Go. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
GOLDFIELDS DIAMOND DRILLING CO.Pty.Ltd.
331 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works—Sturt St., S. Melbourne.
QljruLL
RUM ELY TRACTOR.
Works continuously on CHEAPEST Kerosene
BORING CONTRACTORS
and MANUFACTURERS.
Armstrong Traction and All-Steel Boring
Machines, Tools and Casing in stock.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines, Wind-
mills, Pumps, Silos, Hay Presses,
Wagons, etc., etc.
r-
e-
The store keeper who tells you that there
are no better cartridges than Ajg mingto&llMC
proves that he knows his business.
He also proves that he is truthful and that he is looking
after your best interests.
You can compare Remington-UMC cartridges with any other
brand by putting both through the same tests. The result
will prove our claims of superiority.
Caution :—To be sure you get the genuine, see that the
Remington-UMC Red Ball Trade Mark is on the box.
For target or field use, and for every calibre of every firearm.
Remington Arms —Umon Metallic Cartridge Company
New York London
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
P. O. Box 656, Melbourne
ONVH 3NQI in i
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d.
have done so much, all over the world, to make dyspeptic people healthy that
their popularity and success are a matter of course. The ingredients of which
the World's Household Remedy is composed are the very substances provided
by Nature herself for the cure of indigestion and similar ailments. It is
evident, therefore that Beecha’m's Pills
Will Do You
more good than other preparations not composed of the same healing proper-
ties. So, whenever you find your stomach or liver the least bit out of order
just take a dose of Beecham's Pills and put yourself right. This is an "easy,
safe, simple, and sensible way of maintaining your health. Beecham's Pills
will always do you
A World of Good.
Sold everywhere In boxes, price lII £ (56 pills) <S 219 (168 pills).
C=s
mm
%
m
Kirchner’s Faient isanu saw
BUILDERS, CABINET MAKERS & JOINERS
If you wish to INCREASE YOUR PROFITS instal
KIRCHNER’S High-Speed
Woodworking Machines.
They are 'reliable, they give satisfaction. Send for
Catalogue, or ask their Representative to call on yoii.
Our many years’ experience is free at your disposal,
Save the Middleman’s Commission by dealing direct
with the Manufacturers,
KIRCHNER 8 CO., 32 Market Street, Sydney.
OR TERMS. , ’Phoae City 7091.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLO BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
l/li, 2/9 & 4/b.
fiftlcrcdf*
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
efte ct ua 11 y
cuts short all
attacks el
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
‘he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
f
/
/
k
k
KNOWNTME
WORLD OVER
YOUR beard is not always the same.
That fact gives tremendous import-
ance to the positive adjustment fea-
ture —peculiar to the Gillette Safety
Razor.
No razor without positive adjust-
ment can give uniform service—and
no safety razor has a positive adjustment
except the Gillette.
Any man can use a Gillette Safety Razor. There is nothing to learn.
No bother with strops and hones. You just lather —and shave.
Gillette Standard Sets, One Guinea. Sold everywhere. Write for
illustrated and descriptive Booklet. Please mention this paper.
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA :
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
. GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR I/TD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Gillette
NO STROPPING NO HONING
Safety
Razor


PERTUSSIN
m
A remedy constantly
recommended by
Doctors for the last
twenty years against
WHOOPING GOUGH
GOUGHS
CATARRH
ASTHMA
Rapid Recovery.
Can be obtained at all Chemists.
TO
HOT
WITH
Lemon
AT
Bedtime
Hardie’
Used Jn place ol Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID S AWT Pftani
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAIMES HARDIE * CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
and at little Collins Street, Melbourne.
The
Importance
Of
Efficient
Insulation!
The importance of efficient insulation, in many cases, is not realised. Great
care is shown in the selection of a steam plant to ensure the greatest economy,
yet the insulation which is of equal importance is in many cases partly neg-
lected. If you strive to make a saving in the steam consumption of your
engine, why not make certain that it is not wasted again through faulty in-
sulation? The claims we make as to the exceptional efficiency of Newall’s
Coverings are fully borne out by actual test, and, further, by the enormous
sales, including repeat orders, and we do not know of a single instance where
any other covering has been used once Newall’s have been tried.
The Ultimo and White Bay Power Houses are insulated throughout with
Newall’s Coverings, and this material has also been adopted exclusively by the
N.S.W. and Victorian Governments. These are facts which will tend to fur-
ther prove our claims. The innumerable advantages of this material over all
other forms of lagging are described in interesting booklet, which we will be
pleased to m9.il you along with samples.
NE WALL’S
MAGNESIA SECTIONAL
STEAM PIPE & BOILER
COVERINGS.
J. WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Wellington, N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, FSuming,
Patent “ Nelyambo” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work .
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
■ ! I 4
MODERN TOOLS FOR MACHINE-SHOP EQUIPMENT
Thule Crank Shapers
Study the design and construction of these Shapers.
■ Xr ■- ‘ K ' * -f" '
They are nothing if not modern as regards simplicity and con-
venience of operation—nothing' complicated with which to
confuse the operator, yet possessing every modern feature for
the rapid production of accurate work.
That is why critical users everywhere recommend a Thute.
It will pay you to call and inspect or write for descriptive catalogue.
PARKE <a LACY CO. LIMITED
Engineers (SL Machinery Merchants, 60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
THE “GUTHRIDG”
Garbage Destructor.
SMOKELESS EFFICIENT SIMPLE.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Health Department and the N.S.W. Education Department.
INVALUABLE FOR PRIVATE AND PUBLIC HOSPITALS. NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
Manufactured by
m
SYDNEY and
MELBOURNE
''
Wk
m
I
V IM I-I
i;J
% feati
■
• '■■! Xf S; ®|| liß
