

the Whisky of Sterling Value
R. €3r. WATIOETS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
E ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N-5-W- MONT DE PIETE D 5I C? Lip
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And at Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Meloourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Hffiffifiil'««! IS Mna
□noiz
llßiiiS-.oliß
Hrmf? i3'»o:
gOBART,
asjss—-
Ijadley’s Orient (jotel
RICHARDSON’S
Wine S Spirit
Stores,
68 Market St.,
SYDNEY.
158 Russell St.,
MELBOURNE.
Bottle, Case or Gallon at Wholesale Price. l‘>
MTTnMJJ
u I I Ull J
o 8
CO
UJ
UJ
CHUBB'S
STEEL AND
CONCRETE
DOORS
made from these genuine
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
Junltet
F or INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
The Best for Rough Roads.
fhe impregnated rubber-cord foundation of these tyres enables
them to resist moisture, strain and friction. Catalogue free.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne.
BENSDORPS
Royal
Dutch
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
u
m
tv? ?
"5
mi
M
•vv
m
r
1
will
this
like
one
This sketch is of a corner in the Billiard Room of Mr. Mark Mitchell’s residence, Manly, Sydney. The panelling is of
AMIWUD-—and it is ideal panelling. AMTWUI) can be supplied in Golden Oak, Weathered Oak, Jenisero or Mahogany.
It is supplied in sheets that can be tacked direct to studs, or on to existing walls. Send for booklets and quotations.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO.
D. S. EVANS, Australasian Representative,
Challis House Sydney.
BULLOCH LADES
' WHISKIES
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
S .V. o.
QUEEN OF STATES”
CHOICE m , |p
BaCON a»d JlAlytft
Telegraphic Address—BACoN, Murarrie* Queensland
The Bulletin
Yol. 35.—N0. 1807.]
[Thursday, October i, 1914.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia? for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BooKs of the Moment
(Postages shown
in parentheses.)
Aston’s Sea, Land and Air Strategy. Maps and Dia-
Tressa.ll"(R.) ■ The 4 Ragged Trovvsered Philanthropists,
True Stories About Horses, illus., 4/6 (5d ).
Raphael: The Caillaux Drama, lB/6 (5d.).
Holt’s Morocco the Piquant, illus., i/G (3d.).
Sibliograpliy of Oscar Wilde, ilhis., 30/- (6d.).
The Author’s Craft, 3/- (2d.).
Pinchon’s The Mexican People: Struggle for
lorn, and map, 5/- (4d.).
Native Flowers of Victoria, 4 colored
s, 3/6 (Id.).
’hree Plays for the Australian Stage, 6/- (Id.).
GEORGE ROBERTSON S CO. PROPTY LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
NACH DEM STURM
(AFTER THE STORM).
TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN.
A PREDICTION OF THE DOWNFALL OF THE
BRITISH EMPIRE.
This Booklet has been selling by the million in
Germany. It is in every Prussian knapsack! It is
a prophecy every German prays to come true! Pub-
lished with explanatory Map in colors, showing- how
Germany intended to alter the Map of the World!
Prussian Militarism received a fresh impetus upon
its publication. Now on sale at all ■ Bookstalls.
0(1. per copy. Posted direct from the Publisher,
7d." Box 906, G.P.0., Sydney. _____
ASK YOUR LIBRARIAN FOR
“Rosalie and Other Verses/’ by “Batcher” (J.
Burgess), Rosalie, “Is a charming poem, a love storj
full of purity and sweetness.” —-Frances Levvy, Band
op Mercv and Humane Journal, Sydney. Done in
excellent style.”—The National Advocate, Bathurst.
£l, 10s. and ss. offered for three best simple
accounts of Sweet Rosalie, sent by Ist Nov., 1914, to
Miss G. Burgess, P. 0., Oanertee, N.S.W.. who will
supply book in Commonwealth, 2s. 6d. post free.
Agents wanted.*
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
For Coughs! Colds! Influenza! LET THE BUYER BEWARE!
Si'SJS'ols
mmthaujm
MtOICM. «AUTTt’ &XYS>
) "ftMOOUJ P9CNX C 0 WtH
®*wv»ce'y
cPhU DSOn!
... R
stefe
POST FREE ON RECEIPT
OF STAMPS.
1/6.
The large sale for “EUMENTHOL JU-
JUBES” has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of men-
thol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying t-o be sure and get
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES. You
may be asked to buy other jujubes, ana be
told they are “just as good” as Hudson s
Eumenthol Jujubes. This proves that these
imitations and substitutes have no reputa-
tion of their own, and can only be sold on the
good repute and high character of Hudson s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS,
or from the Manufacturers—
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY. *
The Red Page
Blast
This word, in big black letters on a cerise
ground, is the title of the new quarterly (3s.
out here), published by John Lane, and
edited by Wyndham Lewis, devoted to the
interests of the new English art move-
ment, Vorticism. This blast from London
whirls the Futurists off the earth. It is
the maddest magazine ever published. Its
pages shriek curses in huge black type; it
publishes manifestoes and vorticist pictures,
and its motto is “Long live the Vortex !” The
new movement, apparently, is an English
counterblast to the Dago Futurists. “Blast
sets out to be an avenue for all tlipse vivid
and violent ideas that could reach the public
in no other way....We believe in no per-
fectibility except our 0wn.... We will
convert the King, if possible.... A. Vor-
ticist King! Why not? Do you think
Lloyd George has the vortex in him?
....Automobilism (Marinetteism) bores us.
We don’t want to go about making a hullo-
buloo about motor-cars any more than about
knives and forks, elephants or gaspipes....
Blast presents an art of Individuals.”
Blast, in a series of manifestoes printed
in poster type, curses “the flabby sky of Eng-
land that can manufacture no snow, but can
only drop the sea on us in a drizzle like a
poem by Mr. Bobert Bridges... .May some
vulgarly inventive but useful person arise
and restore to us the necessary Blizzards.”
One page gives a list of about 50 things
blasted, ranging from Galsworthy to codliver
oil. However, the hairdresser is given a full-
page blessing for making “systematic mercen-
ary war on the wildness of beards.” More
manifestos yell at us that: “The artist of the
modern movement is a savage (in no sense an
advanced, perfected, democratic, Futurist in-
dividual of Mr. Marinetti’s limited imagina-
tion) ; this enormous, jangling, journalistic,
fairy desert of modern life serves him as
Nature did the more technically primitive
man.” Also: “The Futurist statue will move:
then it will live a little; but any idiot can
do better than that with his good wife, round
the corner. Nature ’s definitely ahead of us
in contrivances of that sort. We must re-
main children, less scientific than a boy-
scout, but less naive than Flaubert jeune!
Nature is grown up. WE could not make an
Elenhant. .. .Our vortex is not afraid of the
Past: it has forgotten its existence. Our
vortex regards the Future as as sentimental
as the Past.. . .We wish the Past and
Future with us, the Past to mop up our
melancholy, the Future to absorb our trouble-
some optimism.... Life is the Past and the
Future. The Present is Art.... The Past
and Future are the prostitutes Nature has
provided. Art is periodic escape from this
brothel The Vorticist is at his maximum
point of energy when stillest... .The Vorti-
cist does not suck up Life. He lets Life know
its place in a Vorticist Universe! In a
Vorticist Universe we don’t get excited at
what we have invented. If we did it would
look as though it had been a fluke.... Our
Vortex rushes out like an angry dog at your
Impressionistic fuss... .Futurism is a dis-
gorging spray of a vortex with no drive
behind it, Dispersal. .. .Impressionism,
Futurism deny the vortex. They are the
corpses of Vortices. Marinetti is a corpse.”
And finally and conclusively: “Life to-day is
giddily frank, and the fool is everywhere
serene and blatant. Human insanity has
never flowered so colossally.”
The pellucid beauty of these sentiments suf-
fers much in this translation to ordinary type.
Dancers, by W. Roberts.
To get the true vorticist effect of these Epistles
to the Philistines the reader must imagine
them printed in thick type an inch high.
Specimens of vorticist art, literature and
the drama are given. The “Portrait of an
Englishwoman” and “Dancers” speak for
themselves. Ezra Pound begins a poem with:
Let us deride the smugness of The Times :
GUFFAW!
and thus vortically concludes :
HERE is the taste of my BOOT.
CARESS it, lick off the BLACKING.
Another poem, entitled “The New Cake of
Soap,” is complete in two lines: —
Lo, how it gleams and glistens in the sun,
Like the cheek of a Chesterton.
But the Vorticist drama is more vortical.
In “Enemy of the Stars” there are but two
characters. One is called Arghol, the other
Hanp. Arghol, we are told, “lies like human
strata of infernal biologies. Walks like wary
shifting of bodies in distant equipoise. Sits
like a god built by an architectural stream,
fecunded by mad blasts of sunlight. The
first stars appear, and Arghol comes out of
the hut. This is his cue. The stars arc his
cast. He is rather late and snips into its
place a test button. A noise falls on the
cream of Posterity, assembled in silent
banks. One hears the gnats’ song of the
30th centuries.” Irlanp arrives, “coughing
like a goat, rolling a cigarette.” Thereupon
he kicks Arghol, and for innumerable pages
the two talk and kick each other. Appar-
ently the action has something to do with
the universe and Arghol’s uncle. Ilanp
wants Arghbl to kill this uncle, w r ho is a
wheelwright. Arghol protests : “My uncle is
very little of a relation. It would be foolish
to kill him. lie is an echantillon. acid ad-
Portrait of an Englishwoman, by
Wyndham Lewis.
vertisement slipped in letter-box: space’s
store-rooms dense with frivolous originals. I
am used to him, as well.” Overhead, there
was a “great beer-colored sky,” which subse-
quently “leapt in fete of green gaiety.”
One is tempted to define the Vorticists
as composed of 1 per cent, artists, 15 per
cent, lunatics and S 4 per cent. leg-pullers.
Impressionist—-Post-Impressionist—Futur-
ist —Cubist —Vorticist! Surely the series
cannot end there? If England can bring
forth Vorticism—in a half-crown quarterly—
surely Australia can go farther. Why can-
not we blare forth as Gyroscopicists, artists
and poets of the great Australian Gyroeopi-
cist movement? Or the Cinamaists —why
shouldn’t there be a good Australian Cina-
maic art movement that would make the
Futurists, Cubists and Vorticists look as pre-
historic as the Kaiser’s war machine?
Meantime, bards are reminded that one
guinea will be paid by this page for the best
Futurist (or Vorticist) poem received by
October 10.
A
The Territory
When Baldwin Spencer, Professor of
Biology, Melbourne, was appointed for 12
months as Special Commissioner for
Aboriginals and Chief Protector, his ethno-
logical knowledge and _ his extensive
acquaintance with the habits of the Aus-
tralian aboriginal enabled him to do
extremely valuable work in the investigation
of the tribal customs of the Northern
Territory natives. He went {Huong them,
able to show them that he was well
acquainted with the customs and secret
matters of other tribes ; and he states that,
as soon as they understood this, it was
wonderful how they opened up, but adds:
“It is equally remarkable how completely
they close in the presence of anyone who is
uncongenial to them.” The result of that
year’s work is a lordly volume, The Native
Tribes of the Northern Territory of
Australia (Macmillan), a book of 500 pages,
lavishly illustrated, frequently in color. His
photographs of the ornaments and weapons
made bv the natives are a revelation of an
artistic "impulse for decoration in a race so
low in the scale of civilisation. The
reproduction, too, of many drawings by
aboriginal artists shows that between
primitive man and the Cubists there is
extremely little difference in method. The
drawings are usually on bark or on smooth
rocks. They represent the animals with
which the natives come in contact, and also
their ideas in regard to the nature _of
certain mythical and mischievous spirits.
The drawings of animals are always more
or less anatomical: they represent not only
the external form, but, to a certain extent,
the internal structure. The backbone is
almost always represented, as are also the
heart and main features of the alimentary
canal. Even in side view, as a general rule,
both eyes are drawn; the animal has two
eyes, and so they must be shown.
Varied though these tribes of the
Territory and Melville Island are in regard
to their organisation and customs, Spencer
found universal the belief that he first
described in the Central tribes —the belief
in the existence of spirit _ children who
inhabit certain definite localities and enter
women. The native sees no connection
between any physical act and the bearing
of children. The spirit ancestor is solely
responsible for.--; the arrival _of the child.
Spencer gives some interesting facts that
might account for the reasoning of the
aboriginal and his blindness to physical
causes. Though' Spencer’s interpretation of
this belief has beeu attached by overseas’
ethnologists, Spencer’s close intimacy with
the natives lends extraordinary weight to
his assertion that “some such belief was
once widely prevalent over a large part of
Australia.” Spencer believes that it was
once universal, since it now exists amongst
tribes widely differentiated from each other.
Closely bound up with this belief is that of
reincarnation.
J*
Among the many new discoveries made,
that of the native method of killing
non-venomous snakes, amongst the Kakadu
tribe, is curious. The natives collect these
non-venomous snakes (four feet and up-
wards in length) into bags, and when a man
wishes to kill one he catches hold of it just
behind the head and puts the latter into his
jnouth, upside down. Holding the neck
tightly in his teeth, immediately behind the
head, he gives the body a sudden, strong,
sharp jerk, dislocating the column and killing
the animal. Spencer adds : “I had heard of
this method, but scarcely thought it credible
until, time after time, I had seen it done.”
A good reason is given why the native,
during the winter months in the upland
interior districts, and along the Roper and
other rivers flowing into the Gulf of
Carpentaria, where the temperature at night
falls to 29° F., though he feels the cold
keenly, never thinks of clothing himself in
furs. Both men and women, except for a
small apron, are stark naked. The native
has never realised that the kangaroos and
other animals he catches and eats in plenty
would provide him with a warm covering.
“This is due, probably, to the fact that he
prefers to cook his animals in the skin so as
to keep all the juices inside, and, therefore,
the first thing that he does is to put the entire
animal on the fire and singe the hair off.”
The cold is not the Territory native’s only
discomfort. Ilis other enemies are flies and
mosquitoes. Though somewhat indifferent to
flies, the native finds in the mosquito a foe
as dangerous to him as it is to the white
mau. The aboriginal is no more immune
from tropical diseases, such as malarial
fever, than is the white. His method of
protection is rather like that of ourselves.
He constructs shelters of mosquito-netting—
though the material he uses is sheets, of
paper-bark, opaque and without ventilation.
Inside these structures the natives almost
hermetically seal the opening, light smoke
fires, and swelter and choke until morning
drives the mosquitoes away. In the real
mosquito season they have, at best, very
uncomfortable and disturbed nights, and
have to make up for it by sleeping during
the day. In hilly districts they are more
fortunate, since if they dan get up a few
hundred feet they are relatively free from
mosquitoes. On the East Alligator River
an isolated hill has a track running up it
to some rock shelters at the. top. . Every
night a long procession of natives winds up
the hillside from the plains to escape their
implacable foe.
“The aboriginal is a very curious mixture ;
mentally, about the level of a child who
has little control over his feelings and is
liable to give way to violent fits of temper,
during which he may very likely behave
with great cruelty. As a general rule he
is very fond of and very good to his children
He has no sense of responsibility, and,
except in rare cases, no initiative. His
memory is wonderful so far as subjects are
concerned that affect his life and mode of
conduct. When once he has seen any place,
or any particular natural object, he khows
it for all time. If once he has heard a
corroboree he knows the words and music,
and his memory in respect to native tradi-
tions is marvellous. It must be understood,
however, that in proportion to the narrow
sphere of their actions, there is as great a
mental difference amongst aboriginals as
amongst whites in their wider sphere....”
One man of a tribe makes the best knives;
another is the best historian of the tribe.
But neither brains nor skill are paid for.
“The possessor of any particular capacity
does not, except in rare cases, secure any
very direct personal gain from its exercise
beyond the fact that lie has a reputation for
ability. Everything is communistic.”
Spencer regards as one of the important
characteristics of the aboriginal his fondness
for fun and his sense of humor. “Under
normal conditions they are always cheerful
and are constantly either corroboreeing or
playing and laughing at each other. Nothing
amuses thepi more than an accident that
puts one of their number in an undignified
or uncomfortable position... .They are won-
derful at mimicking anything that they think
is funny, and the acting of two natives, one
of whom tried to show me how a former
Government Resident of the Territory had
behaved when he suddenly trod on a snake;
and the other who, after posing a few
natives for the purpose, imitated by means
of three sticks for a tripod, and a sheet of
paper bark for a focussing cloth, the actions
of a very excitable photographer whom he
had watched; was wonderfully realistic.
Spencer' believes that the estimate of
20,000 aboriginals as the population of the
Territory is too low. There are great areas,
as in Arafura Land, where practically no
white man has been —at all events there is
no settlement —and here there is abundance
of native food, and the tribes wander un-
hampered in their native state. A census,
if it were possible, would, Spencer thinks,
show something like 50,000 natives. But
in all parts where the natives are in con-
tact with outsiders, especially with Asiatics,
they are rapidly dying out.
Bennett
The long-promised completion of the
trilogy of which Clay hanger and Hilda Less-
ways were the first two volumes is still
unannounced. Arnold Bennett has apparently
shied off the difficult third volume. Instead,
he gives us The Price of Love (Methuen),
a commonplace story distinguished only by
the cleverness with which its thin texture
is given a specious solidity by the magic of
the manufacturer’s style. Bait Bennett is
wearing thin. He has spun out a simple
story to full novel length merely by means
of his elaborate treatment of minutiae. On
the second page, for instance, he devotes a
long paragraph to Rachel lighting the gas.
Her lighting the gas has no ultimate bear-
ing on the story—yet Rennett, who should
certainly know what his public will stand,
pads like this :
“She opened a drawer of the new Sheraton
sideboard, and took from it a metal tube
that imitated brass, about a foot long and
an inch in diameter, covered with black
lettering. This tube, when she had removed
its top, showed a number of thin wax tapers
in various colors. She chose one, lit it
neatly at the red fire, and then, standing on
a footstool in the middle of the room,
stretched all her body and limbs upward in
order to reach the gas. If the tap had been
half an inch higher or herself half an inch
shorter, she would have had to stand on a
chair instead of a footstool; and the chair
would have had to be brought out of the
kitchen and carried back again. But. Heaven
had watched over this detail. The gas-
fitting consisted of a flexible pipe, resemb-
ling a thick black cord, and swinging at the
end of it a specimen of that wonderful and
blessed contrivance, the inverted incandes-
cent mantle within a porcelain globe: the
whole recently adopted by Mrs. Maldon as
the dangerous final, word of modern inven-
tion. It was safer to ignite the gas from the
orifice at the top of the globe; but even so
there was always a mild, disconcerting ex-
plosion, followed by a few minutes’ uncer-
tainty as to whether or not the gas had
“lighted properly.”
There ! The gas is now lighted, and the
story can get on. But, no ! Bennett, at so
much per word, is much too clever to forget
that another paragraph can be discreetly
managed out of the same absorbing subject.
“Rachel, gentle-footed, kicked the foot-
stool away to its lair under the table, and
simultaneously extinguished the taper, which
she dropped with a scarce audible click into
a vase on the mantelpiece. Then she put
the cover on the tube with another faintest
click, and finally, with a click still louder,
pushed the drawer home.”
Click —click—click ! Each click _is the
sound made by the shillings dropping into
shopkeeper Bennett’s till.
So, every few pages, we get similar long
explanations of the most commonplace
actions. This, for instance, is how Rachel
washed the cutlery: “She completely im-
mersed spoons and forks in the warm water,
and then rubbed them with a brush like a
large nail-brush, giving particular attention
to the inside edges of the prongs of the
forks ; and then she laid them all wet on a
thick cloth to the right: of the basin. But
of the knives she immersed only the blades,
and took the most meticulous care that no
drop of water should reach the handles.”
Once again Bennett is right: remarkable
things do happen in the Five Towns! These
passages sound like a rather too _ obvious
parody of the Bennett style. Which is really
what they are. With a waning invention
and a method frayed thin. Bennett is begin-
ning to parody himself. He finds it pays.


uGC
Anthony Horderns’ for Fashion and Economy
'f
4^2.
*
Jf
2.4
?
/
T
60
92
Disftiidtvo
Millinery
AmfioinF Horderns
No. 37. Floral Ninon Hat, lined Tagel, trimmed Ribbon Velvet and Clusters of Fruit,
Velvet ends 35/-
No. 97. Tagel Straw Hat* veiled Areopbane, trimmed breaths and Clusters of small
Flowers, Roses and Ribbon at back 357-
No. 24.— Tuscan Hat, trimmed Ribbon, large Roses and Foliage 427-
No. 27.—Fancy Straw Hat, Band of Silk over edge, trimmed Ribbon and Poppies.. 307-
No. 92. Tagel Hat, lined Ribbon, trimmed Wreath of small Flowers, Roses and Foliage on
crown 32/0
No. 60. — Tagel Hat, veiled Ninon, trimmed Ostrich Tips and Roses 70/-
t
4122
7332
7/n
260/
8271
0303
7/n
15/ 5
S/U
v\
m
k
*y
448 21/
548
2773
27/t,
2 7/6
Newest Phase
at Anthony Horderns'.
No. 4122.—Becoming White Cotton Voile Blouse, V Neck, trimmed Frilling ot
Goffered Lace, and colored French Knots, three-quarter Sleeves into Cuff, fastens at
back 8/0
No. (109. Ivory Fish Net Blouse, loose effect, low, turned-down Collar and Revers, fastens
at front 7/6
No,
No
No,
No
No,
No,
No
No.
0505. Pretty Blouse, Of AVhite Muslin, Embroidered, turned-down Collar and front,
fastens at front 7/11
, 8271. Ivory Japanese Silk Blouse, low V Neck, trimmed Valenciennes Insertion,
and frilling at Neck, fastens front, three-quarter Sleeves 5/11
, 7332.—White Cotton Voile Blouse, trimmed lin. Tucks, turned-down Collar edged
Valenciennes Insertion and narrow Lace, with small Braid Buttons at front, fastens at back,
three-quarter Sleeves, turned-back Cuff, inlet with Insertion 7/11
2501.—Black Merveilleux Silk Blouse, finely pin-tucked, V Net Yoke, high Collar,
fastens back 13/6
448. Chiffon Taffeta Blouse, Yoke back and front, turned-down Collar, daintily finished
at neck with Floral Chiffon Frilling 21/-
54.—White Cotton Voile Magyar Blouse, turned-back low Collar, inlet Insertion,
new, loose Cuffs 8/11
548. Stylish Blouse, Of Black gathered Ninon and Black Spotted Net over White Net,
effectively arranged in alternate Stripes, turned-down Collar of Spotted Net, scalloped Lace
edge, long Sleeves, finished Frill, fastens front 27/6
2773. Dainty Ivory Silk Blouse, trimmed Guipure Insertion, round, scalloped Race
Yoke, high Collar, with small Pearl Buttons, fastens back 27/6
Out sizes, 42in. to 44in. bust, in all Blouses, 1/- extra.
Our Summer
Fashion
Portfolio
illustrates all
that is smart
and stylish,
and is a reli=
able guide to
the prevaling
modes.
Write for a
copy, post free
on request.
Cxcfusive Coats w
tfe Cuff of ft e Cape
Com if on
+9'<S
OXamiNort
67'6
<?am</en
90''
The Compton. Model'll Cape, Of All-Wool Face Cloth, 5-length, new, square Collar and
Stoles of self, piped Black Satin; <omes in smart shades of Saxe, Emerald, Tan, Cerise, Fawn,
Crev, Petunia, Royal, Navy or Black 49/6
The Hamilton. Exclusive Model, of Bronze Silk Moire, new, pleated shape has wide
folded Belt and handsome Buckle of self, lined throughout White Satin 87/6
The Apsley. Handsome Model Coat, Of French Grey Liberty Satin, an example of the
deep flounced effect, stylish Collar and fronts trimmed tubular •Oabochons, pipings and Buttons
of self 79/6
The Camden. Model Wrap, Of rich Silk Brocade, in soft shade of Putty, lined throughout
Oyster Silk, smartly cut back with fold forming Cape effect 90/-
The Chantilly. — A Becoming Circular Cape, of light-weight Satin Cloth, in shades of
Sand, Emerald, Violet, Royal or Navy; Collar and Vest of striped Silk to tone 75/-
Pop your
orders in the
post and reap
the full
benefit from
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
FAMOUS
LOW
PRICES.
They save
you sovs.
n
. • •••■•'
JSexA'ff
3 7'6 __ +2~ : W'G
m
iM)Mm
2>ort.i
32&.J
&ene vet/e ‘
The Camelia. Dainty White Voile Robe; Bodice trimmed Net Insertion and l< rilling;
Skirt of Embroidered Voile has the new, long, draped Russian Pannier, trimmed Insertion at
sides, slightly open at foot, with hemstitched hem 117/6
The Bexhill. Useful Coat and Skirt, Of Colored Japanese Silk; the Collar and Cuffs are
of Ivory Silk, stitched to match Costume, trimmed fancy Buttons to tone; Skirt smartly draped
at front, and open and rounded at foot; in Tan, Lime and Saxe 42/-
The Anita. —Smartly-designed White Lace and Net Robe; the Net Bodice is
effectively trimmed Lace and Frilling, with Collar Pipings and Buttons of Silk, in dainty
shades of Sky, Coral, Maize, Cerise, Royal, Tango and Emerald; the Skirt is of Lace, which
forms frilled Tunic, with two rows of Net Frilling below hips, wide, folded Silk Belt.. 47/6
The Geneveve. Exceedingly Pretty Style, carried out in Ivory Shadow Lace over Net
foundation, which is trimmed frillings of narrow Ribbon, in Pink or Maize; the Lace forms a
crossover effect on Bodice, with the new Medici Collar; Skirt has double Tunic effect of Lace,
folded Belt of Net 75/-
The Doris.—White Hailstone Spot Muslin Robe; the Bodice trimmed Guipure
Embroidery Insertion, has dainty, folded Belt of Floral Silk, with new frill; shaped Tunic on
Skirt, finished Guipure Edging 32/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKneld Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


#
/
/
'
Y/S*
k
KNOWN'THE
WORLD OVER
VOUR beard is not always the same.
1 That fact gives tremendous import-
ance to the positive adjustment fea-
ture —peculiar to the Gillette Safety
Razor.
No razor without positive adjust-
ment can give uniform service—and
no Safety razor has a positive adjustment
except the Gillette.
Any man can use a Gillette Safety R.azor. There is nothing to learn.
No bother with strops and hones. You just lather—and shave.
Gillette Standard Sets, One Guinea. Sold everywhere. Write for
illustrated and descriptive Booklet. Please mention this paper,
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA :
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney
. Gillette; safety razor ltd., London, England.
Gillette
NO STROPPING NO HONING
Safety
Razor
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SYDNEY: John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE: Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
FERTH: McLean Bros. & liigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
HiMROD'S
ASTHMA POWDER
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE-
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won't
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surelv with
WILKINSONS
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price tie, posted 1/9. d. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
• >»
&
' % :% 2
Proved by independent
scientific investigation
to have a Body-Build-
ing Power of 10 to
20 times the amount
taken.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Atild Jock Whisky
Kent Brewery, Sydney
I Can Give
You Health
—U-4 jl " i— —
jte ' IF YOU WILL TAKE
VITADATIO
(he MEDICINE that cured me of HYDATIDS when all else had failed ;
I then purchased the SECRET of the REMEDY.
You need suffer no longer, VITADATIO Is a Tonic, Blood Builder, and
Nerve Restorer. It Cures :
NE RVOUS DEBILITY, by bracing the
nerves.
NEURASTHENIA, by clearing out
nerve poison
CONSTIPATION, by cleansing the
system.
LIVERISHNESS,'- by rousing the
liver. . ’f'
TUMORS and GROWTHS, by destroy-
ing the germs.
DYSPEPSI A, by toning the stomach.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
by dissolving and expelling ex-
cessive uric acid.
GRAVEL and STONE, by flushing
the kidneys.
SKIN AILMENTS, by purifying the
blood,
DEPRESSION, by invigorating the
system.
Sold by Chemists and Stores. Write
for Free Advice and Testimonials.
S. A. PALMER
439 FLINDERS LANE,
MELBOURNE, VIC.
Do you really enjoy yourself ?
You can never get the best out of life, if you are
continually" suffering from sluggish liver, indigestion
and frequent headaches. To overcome and avoid
these disofd&rs is, however, such a simple proceed-
ing thajt.no 'matter how often or how long you have
been subject to these attacks, you can look forward
to enjoying immediately the best of health and hap-
piness by taking
€OCKUrS«»JILLS
A REPUTATION OF OVER 100 YEARS.
Cockle’s Pills regulate the system, tone up the liver and improve
the digestion, enabling the processes of the body to be carried out
quietly and steadily, while you remain blissfully unconscious of
their working and free to enjoy every moment of life. Cockle’s
Pills are made from the prescrip-
tion of the famous Dr. Cockle.
The first Steamship to
cross the Atlantic
was the “ Great Western ” which made her first
trip in 1838 taking 15 days on the voyage.
There can be little doubt but that she carried a
supply of Cockle’s Pills for they were the most
popular remedy in England at that time and their
fame was rapidly spreading all over the world.
COCKLE’S PILLS
of Chemists throughout
the World. Prices in
England, ill^etzlgabox
Yh6 m
fills %
C anno
Cleans I
ILeguln
12/-eeic
lajK*
elf
fcure-
ationerJ


Mitt
BENGER’S
is the -
most easily
digested
Food
obtainable.
It is expressly
devised to be fully
nourishing when
natural digestion
isenfeebled, whether
in child or adult.
It is prepared with fresh
new milk and forms a dainty
and delicious cream, which
fully satisfies “hunger-faint-
ness,” and soothes internal
discomfort. Benger’s is the
safe food in illness, and in
convalescence promotes
rapid recovery.
Delicate children thrive on it.
Food
For CHILDREN
INVALIDS and the AGED
is sold by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
Bengcr’s Booklet—A little work of authority on
the special feeding of Children. Invalids,and the
A ceil, will be sent post free on application to:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.,Manchester, Engf.
Branch Offices— NKVV YORK (U.S.A.) 92, William Street
SYDNEY (N.s.w.) 117, Pitt Street.
Canadian Agents— National Drug Co., Ltd., Montreal.
lBO A
COLORED POST-CARDS, by Harrv J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” * Set
•of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street. Sydney.
nation
TALC U M
POWDER
Don’t Throw
Away Your
Williams’
Talc. Tins.
Post four empty
tins (any odor)
to the J. B.
Williams Co.,
Box 98, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and we
will send you
without charge
;vv
Williams’
exquisite Siiver-
plated Vanity
Box, with
Powder
Puff and
Concentra-
ting Mir-
| ror, exact-
ly like il-
lustration.
VC* 5,
■sl
Heat
r~
DO YOU
FEELTHE
MONEY-
PINCH ?
The “money pinch” denotes that
you Need to Learn More in
order to Earn More. The
I.C.S. have helped thousands to
better-paid positions, and can
help you also.
200 COURSES TO CHOOSE
FROM.
Write for free booklet, stating
your occupation and ambition
to—•
International Correspondence
Schools,
Department 8.Y.,
26 JAMIESON STREET, SYDNEY
Unequalled as a Specific, for COUGHS & COLD '
INFLUENZA, BRONCHITIS, SORENESS and
TIGHTNESS of the CHEST, WHOOPING
COUGH, SORE or RELAXED THROAT.
&
I
wdk
' 301 Queen Street, Brisbane
Messrs. Bennington & Ob.
Dear Sirs, —For over 20 years “Bonning-
ton’s Irish Moss” has been an unfailing
remedy in my household. For Coughs and
Colds and (.'best Affections generally I con-
sider there is no better remedy than “Bonninurton
Irish Moss.” Yours truly, W. .T. C. YATFfi
jPo sure yoUy&ct DOjNjNI/VC.TO/I’s|
SEST
>
ENNESS CURED!
ANY WOMAN
can cure the most
violent drunkard
_ .. ... , - , SECRETLY AT
HOME. Golden Specific has no odor or taste, and can be taken by
the most delicate person of either sex. It totally eradicates all craving
for stimulants, creating a lasting antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks.
, -ii , Many cases are cured in a few days with this treatment. It is the
cneapest, quickest, and most certain and lasting means of curing alcoholism, and every woman who has a
drunkard s welfare at heart should send ltd stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars to
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., (Dapt. B 2014) PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
X#.
Every Woman Can Have
A PERFECT
It matters not if you have been thin and straggly for years, even if you
never were properly developed your measurements can be increased to normal
and your figure nicely rounded out to pleasing, plump proportions. It is
done every day for others—why not you ?
Mrs. B. Driesden wrote from Armidale, 25th May, 1913:
“I do not require any more of I)r. Falliere’s Flesh-Food,
; as I am developed as much as I desire. My measurements
have increased satisfactorily, and my health has improved
wonderfully. 1 will tell my friends of your treatment, and
will always recommend it, and I wish to thank you for your
kindness and prompt attention to my wants.”
Many oases gain as much as five pounds a week, and improvements up to as
have been made in bust measurements. Send or call for full particulars at once,
and recommend this wonderful method. Guarantee given in every case accepted.
much as ten inches
Thousands endorse
SEND US a 2d.
STAMP and
LET US SEND
YOU A FREE
BOOK & FREE
SAMPLE O F
‘FLESH=FOOD’
GET THEIR TESTIMONIALS.
' We suggest that all lady readers who
see this article will do well to investigate
the truth of these assertions. Send two
penny stamps, and we will post you full
particulars and a FREE SAMPLE
.TREATMENT.
We will send you scores of grateful
letters from delighted women and so
much evidence that you must be con-
vinced. Write to-day. If convenient
call for an interview. Lady attendant.
Advice and consultation free.
Hours: 9 to 5 daily.
EAEEIERE FLESH-FOOD CO.,
1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
Treatment by Post.
So carefully have
we arranged our
correspondence de-
partment that a
patient at any
point, no matter
how distant, can
receive the . same
careful considera-
tion as though she
were able to visit
us every week.
ism
TRADE
B.S.A
m
TRADE.
MARKS
B.S.A
For
THE WORLD'S BEST
really good rifle of the most modern type and at a moderate price the
B.S.A. War Office Miniature Rifle
.22 CALIBRE
should appeal to the expert rifleman and Sportsman. An ideal weapon for miniature rifle clubs,
it is fitted with special military sights adjustable to 200 yards, latest safety bolt action, perfect
rifling and beautifully balanced. Sold by up-to-date dealers at 55/- single shot, or 70/- with
magazine. If your dealer cannot supply, write for address of nearest agent.
Descriptive Booklet post free from
D. Y. RENNIE (Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.), Australian Bldgs., Melb.
free: to
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W.,
writes:—
“it gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since 1 last used
tobacco, and, although 1 am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke, therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfectall my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizzi-
ness, Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I
have every reason to believe were caused through the
use of tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are
only remembered as a hideous nightmare. I eat
and sleep well, and feel fit to face' the \t r orld again.
It will give me great pleasure to recommend your
remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. Q,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
[i.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have yon grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtniu an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
sott rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
tin' reach of all. Can vou ask for more?
PERFECT FASE. COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
bF.SC TPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
340 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Parley Voo.
Should auld acquaintance be forgot?—but
only for a while —
We met them at Trafalgar once —we met
them at the Nile;
We met them too at Fontenoy—but that
was nothing new—
We even met at Patay once to have a
Parley Voo.
Sometimes our say-so used to go, and some-
times theirs made good—
They all were friendly arguments, it must
be understood ;
We never had a serious row by any sort
of chance —
We always found a gallant foe beneath the
flag of France.
We both were right and always right—save
when we were allied ;
As when w 7 e fought the Russian Bear, and
fought him side by side.
But Ivan has forgotten that, as all good
fellows do.
We three shall meet ere Christmastide, and
have a Parley Voo.
But, let it pass—our folk rejoice by throne
and blacksmith’s forge.
The saints have fought—St. Nicholas, St.
Pierre aud St. George.
The world teas good; we’ll rest again, and
all things shall be bright—
I'd like to hear the Parley Voo in Paris
streets to-night.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
My Blood Won’t Boil.
To-day there is reported an atrocious outrage upon
a British nurse, who had shot a German who fired
upon a wounded soldier. Happily the hideous thing
is a lie A story arrived some weeks ago that
when the German cruiser Magdeburg went ashore in
the Gulf of Finland, and was captured by the
Russians, a cat-o'-ninetails was found in every officer's
cabin. As a matter of fact, part of the equipment of
most German officers is said to be a sort of whip-
handle with a number of leathern thongs attached to
it, which is used for the purpose of brushing clothes.
It seems most probable that this is the instrument
referred to. —S. M. Herald.
When first the war broke out,
I read in tram, and train
Each cable shriek and shout;
My mind was free from doubt;
I won’t do it again.
With yarns of madmen’s work
I boiled my British blood ;
No horror did I shirk;
Through war’s horrific murk
I saw the victims scud.
But after three long weeks
My blood refused to boil;
I yawned at cable shrieks
And tales of Herman sneaks
Whom heroes could not foil.
“I’m hardened now.” thought I,
“This shows what war will do!
’Midst lakes of blood I’d die
And swarms of foes defy !
I’m made of iron too!”
It wasn’t so at all;
My common-sense had shied
At gory yarns too tall;
No lie could hold in thrall
Young Faith —for Faith had died.
And now 7 you couldn’t make
My British blood to boil.
Though all Hell you should rake;
My soul’s frail pot won’t shake
For all your hellish toil.
Cold is my blood and still;
Let stokers of the pen
Stoke up their lie-stoves tili
With steam they whistle shrill—
My blood won’t boil again !
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.
A Disturber of the Peace.
Sweet Peace sat smiling in the bar
At Teddy’s End, and friendly beer
Was flowing gently, till the jar
Of strife was introduced by Weir.
Who blanked his eyes, and said that he
Could eat ten Germans after tea.
Then rose a gust of argument, •
And loyal fervor fairly blazed.
Australia shouldn’t rest content
Until the Kaiser’s throne was razed,
And not a boat remained to fool
With great Britannia’s naval rule.
One simple soul who sat apart
Was rather milder than the rest.
For killing Germans he’d no heart,
That much he modestly confessed.
An end to quarrels might be made
By arbitration’s artful aid.
Weir thought such sentiments were vile,
And blokes who used them should be shot.
He smote the wretch in manly style,
And Clancy hit him with a pot,
And broken, bruised and stained with gore
ihe man of peace lay on the floor.
“He brought it on hisself.” So spoke
(( Big Weir to Constable Maclease.
A darned, cantank’rous, brawlin’ bloke.
He wouldn’t give you any peace.
I had to biff him on the jore.
Why, hlarst me, he’s agin the war!”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


The Workmen Back of “ATLAS” Belting, Build for Ser ice.
The personal quality enters deeply into the making; of,. “Atlas ’
Balata Belting. Our workmen have had years of experience in one
of the largest Belt-building Factories of the World.
“Atlas” men know the “Atlas” standards of quality—they have
built
“ATLAS” Balata Belting
for vears —using the finest Knglish Cotton Duck, Guttapercha and
Balata. The result is an EVEN AND HIGH standard—every length
of firm, pliable structure that needs no dressing to make it run
efficiently.
bet us send YOU, Mr. Engineer, the “Atlas” prices for comparison.
They will surprise you.
We are the Sole Australasian Representatives of the “Atlas” Belting
Co., of London and Manchester, and we are going - to place the
sale of this Company’s products with responsible Agents in each
State. Write to us direct.
W. G. WATSON & CO. LTD.
•Suppliers of Everything Electrical,
1M
279 Clarence Street; 426=439 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Why not have Electric Light in your Country Home?
It is within your reach in the shape of a Lister-Bruston Automatic Electric Lighting Set. Hie
Set is independent of Local Power Stations —it generates Electricity automatically. Hie
Dynamo starts as soon as the Lights are turned on. The Plant is self-contained, and can he
delivered quite ready for work. It takes up about 9ft. x 4ft. floor space.
There are over 1000 Sets in use now. Let us tell you ALL about the System.
*v
simply switch
ou
7J
the
lid
on
it
and the LISTER-
BRUSTON Auto-
matic Electric
Lighting Set
starts itself.
AGENTS: N.S.W. —W. G. WATSON & CO., LTD., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
VIC.—SUTHERLAND & ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —CLUTTER BUCK BROS., Adelaide.
KYNOCH
USE
BRITISH MADE
.22 Rim Fire CARTRIDGES
Head Works: Birmingham, England. And at Melbourne 8 Sydney.
:-V : ‘
1
m
■r.
L *r ; ;,
a
A Study in Expressions
Produced by “REX” Luncheon Cheese.
“If I lived on bread and cheese,” a man once said to
the writer, “I could not live any cheaper.”
(That was several years ago.)
Nowadays, if a man had to live on
“REX” LUNCHEON CHEESE
he could not live any better.
“Rex” Cheese is more than a pleasant palate experience. It is gocd. wholesome,
nourishing food. It stimulates the digestion.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese contains organic phosphates, the elements which enable
the body to rebuild itself and to withstand the wear of work and the weariness of
worry, and it is pure.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese spreads as readily as butter. It contains all the valuable
properties of perfectly matured full cream cheese. Try a tin or a jar. Your
grocer stocks it.
OTHER- “REX’* BRAND CANNED DELICACIES:
Ham Pate, 31b. tins,
Veal and Tongue Pate, 31b. tins,
Pork Brawn, lib. tins,
Pork Sausages, lib. tins,
Pork and Beans, 131 b. tins,
Pigs’ Peet in Jelly, lib. tins,
launch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins,
“Rex” Puncheon Cheese in decorated
tins and porcelain jars,
and
“Rex” Brand Card, for cooking pur-
poses, in lib. prints.
“REX” FRESH SMALL GOODS. (Pro-
curable at all Grocers and Small
Goods Shops and Carts in Brisbane
and District and Bendigo and District
only.)
Saveloys,
Straslmrg Sausage,
Veal German Sausage,
White Puddings,
Black Puddings,
Pork Sausages,
Frankfurt Sausages.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Curers of “ Rex ” Hams and Bacon, Packers of "Rex” Pure Food Products,
Makers of " Rex ” Small Goods.
MORE
MILES
and
Increased
RIDING
COMFORTS
when touring on
Perdriau
Special Heavy Three-Ribbed
Australian-made
Tyres
We al o tn.ke Plain Round Tread Tyres.
Send for Price List and full particulars.
Manufactured by
RUBBER
CO. LTD.
270 George St., Sidney.
105 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
67a Gawler Place, Adelaide.
307 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
1
///,
ft
\Ut
WE
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS
LOTION.
QUICKLY REMOVES
SKIN ERUPTIONS . . .
ENSURING A
CLEAR COMPLEXION
The slightest Hash, faintest
Spot, irritable Pimples, dis-
figuring Blotches, obstinate
Rczema disappear by applying
SULPHOLINE
Which renders the skin spot-
less, soft, clear, supple, com-
fortable.
BOTTLES 1/- and 2/9.
For 42 Years-
SULPHOLINE
.Has been the Remedy for
ERUPTIONS
PIMPLES
REDNESS
PSORIASIS
ROUGHNESS,
RASHES
ECZEMA
SCURF
ACNE
BLOTCHES
SPOTS
ROSEA
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists—
J PEPPER &CO , LTD., Bedford Laboratories, LONDON, S.E., Eng.,
and can be obtained direct from them by post or from
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removes the effect of Sunscorch.
4J
m
M
The Scientific Light Weight
of the Hudson 6-40
Light weight has become the chief demand of discriminating buyers
of automobiles, and light weight is an important feature of the
Hudson 0-40. This lightness means greater comfort, less depreciation,
greater endurance, and greater mileage from fnel and tyres. Yet
this car is one of the sturdiest on the road.
The Hudson 6-40 has perfect balance and flexibility. You will find
none of its class handsomer, none better equipped, none with more
comforts or more conveniences. It is a masterpiece —favored wherevei
it is known —and peculiarly suited to Australian needs.
It has distinguished streamline body, with receding bonnet and dash,
domed mud-wings and wire wheels. Finished in grey throughout.
Electric self-starter and lighting. Two folding seats and accommoda-
tion for seven persons. One-man hood and cover. Luggage grille.
Price £.535 Complete
Ready for the Road.
Full details will be posted free on request. Trial demonstrations
arranged.
Dalgety &. Company Ltd.
Motor Garage :
136-138 Phillip Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 35. —Ko. 1807.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1914.
PiUCB t)u.
STILL CHASING IT.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of t e
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
terms to subscribers.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s 6d. per Annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drajls, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addiessed to lhe
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
lHine contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence ’ col-
umn all contributions submitted', whether m the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say. 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn■ —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs ,
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.- — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
11. C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 11. C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. IF. Jeivett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; IF. E. Lenehan, 585
2!Hh Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Ilandolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.Ai
Egypt.-— lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong ICong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Rates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji. British Papua, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz., id. ; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 160 z., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., Bioz.
to 10oz., 21 d.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, hoz.,
Id., and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1914.
THE KINGDOM OF JONAH’S GOURD.
In these days of stress and .turmoil the
white man’s world has reasonable ground of
complaint against Germany as a disturber of
the peace and a breaker of civilisation. Yet
for fear the real German should have oppro-
brium aimed at him which he doesn’t wholly
deserve, it is well to remember that he is
sinned against as well as sinning. The
present German Empire—the one which
sprang up so suddenly during the shoddy and
clamor of 1870 and 1871 —is no relation to
the Holy Roman Empire of earlier days. The
political centre of Germany has been at Rome,
and at Paris, and at Vienna, and it has
led a precarious existence at Frankfort and
other places. Only a few years ago—within
the lifetime of people who are still solvent
and going strong, and eating three meals a
day-i-did the ferocious energy of the Prus-
sian sliift the centre of power to Berlin. The
Prussian isn’t wholly a German, though he
now runs the whole German show. There is
many a Bavarian and Wurtemberger who
would rather die than class himself with the
masterful boss-Prussian, and call the junker
his brother. Prussia was the last important
stronghold of heathenism in Europe. It
worshipped horses and wooden images, long
after the rest of Europe was Christianised —
in theory at least. The original Prussian,
so far as he can be traced, was more of a
'’p eil^,.t^ an anything else. A misguided order
or religious knights set out to convert the
t russian idbl-worshipper during the thir-
teenth century, and thus set his feet on
the road which was to lead to the control of
the I atherland. And to-day there are many
R atherlanders who wish that the Teutonic
Urder had died very young, and that the
convert had been left in all the glory of his
heathenism.
* * * *
It is difficult to realise that this amazing
Jonah s Gourd kingdom is so very,
very young. There was a German State of
Hrandenburg in fairly remote days, and 300
years ago a squalid little Prussian State
began to appear on the Muscovite border.
Most of what was early Prussia now belongs
t 0 u S^ a ' Most of what is now Prussia
wasnt 1 russia in the primitive times. The
Kingdom moved west, bag and baggage,
carrying its crown under its arm, and
eating up hits of Germany as it
w^ r } t - was once an eastern property
r w aaa an e y° on Moscow and was owner
or Warsaw. It developed into a great
western kingdom which threatened Paris and
Brussels and Amsterdam and even London.
The most valuable part of its territory has
been acquired during the past 50 years,
including Hanover, once part of the British
Empire. The softer-fibred Germans of the
West went down like chaff before the un-
scrupulous diplomacy and savage war
methods and spiked helmets and large,
trampling feet of the new men. To-day
the descendants of the original Prussian
heathen, so far as they can be traced, seem
a mere handful. Yet the Prussian remnant,
or the Prussian tradition or the Prussian
fury bosses Germany, and drives the German
along strange paths. Of late it seems to
have been driving him downhill towards
perdition.
* * * *
The story of Prussia, when it was at the
beginning of its greatness, yet had hardly
begun to dream that it might consider the
possibility of eating up Europe, was a curious
affair. The country—already partly German
-—was small and ill-populated and barren. It
was more devoted to education than any other
land in Europe. It had the biggest army in
Europe in proportion to its population, also
the hardest-fighting and hardest-flogged army.
It sent out shabby and almost tattered ambas-
sadors at as little as £4OO per annum to
beard the Great Powers, and the truculence
of a shabby Prussian ambassador was an
amazing thing at times. The people toiled
enormously. The kingdom had amazing ups
and downs of political fortune. But every
time it got up it grabbed more territory than
it lost when it went down, and some of the
lies and devices by which it grabbed territory
were calculated to stagger humanity. Most
of Germany, 150 years ago, was an amazing
collection of helpless and untidy States. At
one time it was reckoned that there were
2000 rulers in the land, and some of these
were so small that their contribution to the
alleged imperial army in war-time amounted
to one soldier, or even half a soldier. A country
in this condition offered a wide and promis-
ing field to a vigorous intruder. Germany
was a land much given to astronomy, theo-
logical disputation, and the rearing of hogs
and old traditions and legends of the Rhine,
and none of these things counted for much in
the evil day. So it happened that, inside three
centuries, a dreary pa(ch of barrenness on
the Russian border g£|ve its name to the
larger half of what is now called Germany,
anjl gathered in so many German subjects
that it became a great Power. And with its
wonderful nigger-driving capacity it used
these Germans to boss other Germans till it
became Germany, to all intents and purposes.
There have been larger empires which arose
from smaller beginnings —the British Empire
from the Kingdom of Wessex; the Russian
one from the Grand Duchy of Muscovy; the
Spanish one. from Castile and Aragon. But
they were mostly built by the annexation of
remote, uncivilised or almost empty countries.
Prussia stands alone in modern times as a
hurried stealer of thickly peopled and highly-
civilised regions right under the eyes of the
great Powers of the world.
* * * *
Whether the new empire will consolidate
or burst, no one knows yet. But the present
writer doesn’t feel inclined to throw an in-
discriminate brick at the German people. A
large section of them have suffered quite as
much at the hands of dominant Prussian folk
as anybody else. Therefore the brick ought to
be boiled or padded before it is cast in their
direction. To a devout Catholic from Bavaria
the destruction of the ancient cathedral of
Rheims probably seems a horror. To hear a
Bavarian with two beers and a cigar in him
discourse about the Jonah’s Gourd Kingdom
of Prussia is a revelation in the way of
hatred. Jonah, it may be explained, was a
vile-tempered prophet who sat in the shade of
a huge mushroom that grew up in a day.
Next day a worm ate the mushroom, and the
leading Assyrian botanists of the moment
said that the rise and fall were very sudden.
LOYALTY AND THE FISCAL
QUESTION.
The Foreign-trade party of Australia, which
apparently consists for the most part of A. G.
Lluie and J. C. L. Fitzpatrick, M.L.A.,
both of New South Wales, bounded into
the political arena last week. The party
intimated in an agitated voice that the
Fisher Government’s expressed intention—
not, alas ! so firmly expressed as it should be —
to make Australia’s tariff a really Protective
one, represented an act of disloyalty to
Mother in London —including Mother at
Peckham Rye and the Marble Arch and
Whitechapel and the Tower and Hackney
Wick and Chalk Farm and Barking and Ilox-
ton and Shoreditch, and even the parish of
St. Pancras, which is not near Plumstead and
some considerable distance from the Isle of
Dogs. Also, the proposed deed was alleged
to be treason against Ma at Birmingham and
Liverpool and Bilston and Stoke Pogis and
similar places. The theory is by no means
new. A minute or two ago, as history meas-
ures time, Liberals like Huie and Fitz-
patrick were employing the same argument
in reference to the Fisher Government’s
aspirations in the direction of an Australian
navy. There is a close resemblance between
the naval and military situation in 1909 and
the fiscal situation in 1914. A very few
years back Australia was pathetic in its help-
lessness as regards the military and naval
situation, just as it is to-day as regards its
industrial situation. It was a vast, lonely
expanse of territory, full of mineral wealth,
and without either a regiment or a ship worth
alluding to. It resembled a fat man asleep
in a threepenny bar, with £5OOO worth of
negotiable security projecting from his
pocket. The country was asking for trouble,
and relying on the harassed old Motherland
to cope with the same when it arrived. In
those days the Commonwealth’s lluies and
Fitzpatricks, not to mention its William
Kelly, raised the old calamity howl about
“disloyalty” when it was urged that we
should do something in the way of carrying
the small end of the buTden. Fortunately
the verbal weapon missed fire, or the tyre
burst, or the boiler blew up—at all events one
matter or another went amiss. But for
that brilliantl.v-successful failure Britain
would have had to detach a number of good
fighting ships from its North Sea squadron
for our defence —or else Australia would
almost certainly have seen its trade routes
blocked, its A.U.S.N. and Union and
Adelaide and Burns Piiilp and other fleets
sunk, and its coastal cities shelled. The
Huies and Fitzpatricks and W. Kellys
of this country have their uses. They deserve
statues, with the back view turned to the
traffic. If the public does everything
these folk object to much public dis-
aster may be averted. When the
mariner keeps the stern of the ship in a
straight line with these characters, and steers
away from them, they serve the same pur-
pose as a beacon ahead would do.
* * * *
The Tariff question is in much the same
position to-day as the Defence question was
a few years ago. There is no reason to
believe that Britain regards the development
of Australian industries in any more hostile
spirit than it does the development of an Aus-
tralian army and navy. This country owes
Britain an enormous amount of money, and
probably the stout old creditor would rather
see 50,000,000 people here as security for
the bill than 5,000,000. Britain is an over-
crowded land, and it would sooner have its
surplus population supplied with work in a
highly-Protectionist Australia which is part
of the Empire, than in a highly-Protectionist
United States which is outside the Empire.
The semi-Freetrade policy under which our
imports from Britain made little progress,
while those from other countries, some of
which are now Britain’s most strenuous
enemies, increased, did very little good to the
Ma Land. Australia, by reason of its tariff,
and its general helplessness, and its Lluies
and Fitzpatricks and other sundries,
threatened, a few years ago, to drift into a
position which amounted to the presentation
of three ultimatums to its beloved parent.
The first ultimatum was to the effect that, if
the beloved parent didn’t lend it more money
it would go broke, and the respected ances-
tress would lose both principal and interest of
the existing loans. The second was that,
unless the revered progenitor found the means
of defending this country, she stood another
very good chance of losing both principal
and interest. The third was that, if the
esteemed ancestress tried to relieve the
pressure on her space by sending some of
her people here, they would probably starve,
because we imported such vast quantities of
cheap goods that we couldn’t supply the
immigrants with work. Australia has done
a little to remove the disgrace by establish-
ing a system of local defence, and it Lores
to do a great deal more. When it prohibits
foreign borrowing, builds up an iron-clad
tariff, and begins to promote immigration
on a large scale in order to provide labor for
local industries, it will make a very material
advance, and be a much less casual and
dissipated member of the Empire than it
has been.
* * * *
It is impossible to over-estimate the
urgency of the Tariff question. A new and
bitter world’s war must break out immedi-
ately upon the declaration of Deace —a trade
war, in which the weapons will be tariffs and
export duties. The spoils will not go to
the countries which sit down in a com-
mercially unarmed condition and wait for
business to drop into their laps. The vic-
tory will be to those States which wade in
and fight. The easier way for a while in
many cases, and certainly in Australia’s
case, will be to keep the tariff in its present
state, and borrow money, and get cheap
goods from the sweated foreigner in exchange
for primary products. It is the fiscal
equivalent of a hired fleet of obsolete war-
ships. The more difficult task, and the one
which is certain to infuriate the Common-
wealth’s bogus loyalists, but the one. also,
which must benefit not only Australia but'
Britain and the Empire at large, in the
end consists in building up industries
locally, by the means which the United
States used under the McKinley regime,
and which Germany employed when the
Zollverein was first instituted. It is no
more to Britain’s real interest that this
country, to which it has lent millions of its
good money, should be for ever an under-
populated sheep-run than it was to Britain’s
interest six years ago that the Common-
wealth should adhere indefinitely to the sub-
sidised fleet arrangement. Just as the
United Kingdom was able cheerfully to hear
the loss of our subsidy money the other day,
in consideration of what it got in exchange,
so it will be more than willing to endure
an effective Australian tariff when it reflects
that a property in which it has a big share
must be strengthened thereby. The real
disloyalist in this matter is not the Pro-
tectionist, but the Freetrader —the comm err
cial anti-Defenceite. In the unthinkable
event of the Australian low-tariflist getting
his way. he would saddle the Motherland,
for which he professes such devotion, with
the incubus, not to say affliction. of an infant
suffering from arrested development.
[John Bede Dalley. 214 Ceorap-ctroet. Svdnev.l
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Passing of the Mafficking Habit.
One of the most remarkable, and likewise
creditable, things about the present war is
its freedom from the mafficking business.
The invasion of France was stayed at the
gates of Paris a few weeks ago, and the
enemy was hurled back in his blood-stained
tracks for some considerable distance. No
ordinarily sober citizens got publicly drunk
in celebration of the glad event. No bank-
manager placed his top-hat on the polluted
floor of any bar and bounded on it with
cries of imperial joy. The National Anthem
has not been sung, nor the Union Jack
waved more than usual. The theatres—
those consistent panderers to all that is
cheapest and most bellowdramatic in the
matter of patriotism—tried for a while the
experiment of striking up “God Save” and
the “Marseillaise” in the middle of their
shows. But audiences were in no mood
for such nonsense, and it was presently
abandoned. If singing, blither, noise and
flag-wagging were reliable measures of a
country’s war-spirit it would be a fair thing
to condemn Australia as pro-German to the
marrow. Since the precise opposite is
admittedly the case the community is given
an opportunity to learn, by means of a
standing object-lesson, how little the absurd
flamboyancies of the past had to do with
genuine patriotism. Just as a good woman
does not require to brag about her virtue,
so a sound national cause has no need to be
buttressed, on song and dance linesb m
public houses and such-like resorts. Four-
teen years ago the Empire undertook a war
which most of the members of the present
British Government and a large section of
the nation strenuously condemned. Ihe
cause was a bad one, and many of those
who upheld it knew it for what it was in
their hearts. Some scheme had to be
devised to nobble the fools of the Empire.
And so it became the fashion to estimate a
citizen’s patriotism by his willingness to
make a public ass of himself on the least
provocation, whether by singing, or waving
a flag, or clamoring to be allowed to tear
away the late Paul Kruger’s whiskers. Out
of this was born the spirit which has caused
derision to be heaped on the Imperial move-
ment during the lifetime of half a genera-
tion. For years the Conservatives, who call
themselves by their right name in the
United Kingdom, but who posture, as
Liberals in Australia, have been exploiting
the Union Jack and the National Anthem
for political purposes. When Ireland asked
for a scrap of local self-government such
as Australia enjoys, it was charged with
a traitorous desire to defile the Flag and
burst up the Empire; and when the
Nationalist party in Australia, advocated a
local fleet it was accused by Liberals of the
W. E. Johnson stamp of an intention, to
assail the Empire’s navy. At any time
throughout this period the sudden braying
of “Sons of the Sea,” or some such
banal ditty, was considered sufficient
to put the would-be reformers out of
argumentative action. The present war
was the worst misfortune that could
have befallen the mountebanks . who
have been making Imperial patriotism
a plank in their party platform for so long.
The fact is exposed, in the clearest possible
fashion, that where the cause is good the
British Empire can rely on Tory and
Nationalist. Liberal and Laborite alike.
Which is the sole reason why the mafficking
habit has fallen dead, both here and in
Britain. All parties being in unison
as to the justice of Britain’s atti-
tude, there is no one left to maffick at. This
state of things is beneficent in at least two
directions; it shows up the corybantic
imperialism of yester-year for. the purely
party game which it was, and it makes the
Empire’s bars and streets and theatres far
less absurd spots than they used to be.
The German Snort.
“0.K.” writes (and though The Bulletin
doesn’t exactly know what it is all about
the item seems vigorous, and it certainly
means something or othe/) :
Judging from the talk of the Australian man-in-the-
street, we may conclude that German arrogance,
which waits submissively upon Prussian swank, has
not yet begun to be understood in this country. It
is mistaken for the mere arrogance of self-conceit or
disposition to domineer. The German is regarded as
a person possessed of the bullying instinct, like cer-
tain animals, ever looking to seize an opportunity to
assert himself for assertion’s sake. He is considered
to “put on airs’’ because the German army has been
all-powerful within the past half-century. He is
supposed to be claiming personal physical credit for
that fact.
What the average Australian doesn’t realise is the
mental sincerity of German arrogance. It radiates
from self-esteem, from well-educated faith in the
holiness of the nation’s mission. As Mr. Asquith
told a recent meeting at Edinburgh: “It was the
well-founded belief of the leaders of German thought
You, anti Me, and Widows.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The people and the State will have to cut out
luxuries and settle down to work. Notwithstanding
high authority to the contrary, we cannot live by
taking in each' other’s washing. It is the man who
produces a bag of wheat or a bale of wool who is
going to help—not the pretty girl who buys books,
flowers and afternoon teas! Summed up, if the Bel-
gian widows help in production they will be a valu-
able asset; if they are merely added to our unproduc-
tive population, then it increases our difficulties with-
out corresponding gain to them. — S. M. Herald
correspondent on proposal to import Belgian and other
widows.
No doubt the Australian’s a “sport”—
A word with a meaning quite dubious!
lie’ll take any odds, long or short,
On equine events —or connubious
(It’s always long odds on connubious!).
He is also too prone to import—
A failing we hope .he’ll grow out of —
Hence the project that springs from combin-
ing these things
Is one there’s a very big doubt of!
This latest suggestion
Just raises the question—
The question by no means new!—
With the widows we’ve got,
Do we need a fresh lot? .. . .
And what are oar girls to do?
War is a terrible thing!
So, also, is too much importing!
This war to Australia will bring
A legion of widows, a-courting!
(And widows are dashed hot at courting!)
With everything here on the slump,
The idea shines with insanity;
Heaps of girls may be found, but the men
won’t go round,
So to many girls Life is all vanity.
The persons who blither
To bring widows hither,
What time we’re exporting males,
May be known by the way
That they rise up and bray,
And waggle their ears and their tails!
Of course, if these asinine folk
Are ready to legalise bigamy,
And undertake never to croak
When we drift, by degrees, to polygamy
(A great institution —polygamy!),
Why, then, we shall know where we are,
And be willing our stern code to soften —
Bring out widows galore who have suffered
through war,
And marry ’em early and often!
If that’s the proposal
We’re at their disposal,
And ready to take a broad view. . . .
Why, any young widow will do for me, and
any old widow for you!
N.S.W.
R. McGEDDON.


that the domination of Germany carried with it the
supremacy of German culture, and that the German
spirit was the best thing that could happen to the
world.” On the simplicity of this sincere belief
Prussian militarism easily imposed its condi-
tions. The rising generations of united Germany have
been taught to accept their enslavement by a swank-
ing autocracy as the design of Heaven’s will. The
Kaiser’s blatant references to Himself and Gott,
which seem preposterous—not to say, profane—to the
outside world, touch the German sense of humor not
at all. In fact, Germany has no political sense of
humor whatever.
The Kaiser’s personal unpopularity among his sub-
jects (they are subjects in the fullest sense
of the word), as far as it went in peace
times, was due to the feeling that he was
a hard taskmaster, who kept the nation’s nose
rather too close to the military grindstone. But of
his kingly connection with Gott, his subjects, for the
most part, entertained no doubt. The nation’s faith
in the German mission is the light that lightens its
political darkness. The Germans are too well-edu-
cated, scholastically, to endure any despotism that
commended itself only to the despot. As dreamers—
stodgy dreamers, to be sure—they needed the inspira-
tion of a dream to reconcile them to their political
lot, and the idea of the German culture plant flour-
ishing in foreign soil, which had been irrigated with
blood and fed with human bone-dust, was the stodgy
Teutonian dream.
Bismarck (the curse of Gott on him!) preached
the advancement of German nationality through the
grace of blood and iron. The vision of the figure of
Culture seated on an ammunition waggon was the
apologetic after-thought. So modern Germany came
to be the Land of Arrogance that it is. People here-
abouts foolishly put all the blame on German personal
character and its figure-head, the Kaiser. Kaiser
William, like old grandfather William before him,
is only a pupil of Bismarck, whose Prussian influence
controls the situation. The difference between himself
and his ancestor with the mutton-chop whiskers is
that, whereas the grandfather was a professing servant
of Gott, the grandson claims to be a partner in the
Gott business.
The old Kaiser, whom we know to-day, was the
boy whom Bismarck taught to swank. His head
was so swelled by Bismarck’s promptings that he
sacked his mentor as soon as he was comfortably
seated on the throne, but he had no quarrel with his
mentor’s principles. The Kaiser is what Bismarck
made him in politics, and what latter-day civilisation
has made him in manners. Nobody can accuse him
of being as barbarous as the Prussian empire-builder.
Bismarck boasted that he could swill more beer than
any other University student of his time. He fought
more duels than anybody else, and a German univer-
sity duellist is a humorless bully, anyhow. He was
the savage boar that drove his tusks into Prussia’s
poor little Democratic Party 65 years ago, and tore
out its entrails. This scowling, grunting, forceful
animal shaped the policy which the present Kaiser
inherited and the German Empire submitted itself to.
Presently a floral garland was dumped upon the
policy’s brow by imaginative patriots. This repre-
sents Culture. The pig emblem of Kaiser government
has been adorned with a wreath of roses since
Bismarck’s day, and to German eyes and under-
standing there is no anomaly in the decoration. Ger-
mans, as a rule, are honestly proud of their remorse-
less hog. They believe that Gott ordained it to
disembowel democracy in other lands, and carry
flowers of civilisation to every people. When, there-
fore, a German snorts “Ach!” at the interfering
Briton, as every true-hearted subject of the Kaiser
does snort, it should not be mistaken for an expression
of common or worldly-blind arrognaee. It is a spirit-
ual snort, coming straight from the soul of the
imperialism which bears Bismarck's brand. Provided,
of course, that Bismarck’s imperialism had any soul
to speak of.
A Lost Sensation.
The luck of Sydney is rather poor over the
affair of J. Earle Hermann Limited. The
daily publications are mostly short of paper
supplies, because Belgium and Germany and
Austria and northern France have gone out
of business. In addition they are probably
despondent through the withdrawal of the
advertisment about the bottled cocktail,
lheir diminished space is required for war
news, and even if it was suddenly proved
that Moses was a Wesleyan the event would
only get about four lines in these crowded
times. So the downfall of a glittering and
picturesque finance company receives a
dreary fragment of mention in the law
reports, instead of columns of shout on the
leader page.. The Earle Hermann arrange-
ment occupied affluent offices, and dealt in
the mystery of finance—a thing not under-
stated of the multitude. It floated com-
panies some of them decidedly unlucky
ones. It managed companies. It organised
syndicates and looked after mines. It dealt
in preference shares (plain or cumulative),
ordinary shares, deferred shares, liens (plain
or frilled), shows, hopes, prospects, bills
and sundries. If anyone wanted a coal-
scuttle full of debentures the concern could
doubtless supply them. Institutions of this sort
are essential in the intricate paths of busi-
ness, for business is a complicated matter.
They pay well and do honest work if they
are well managed, but with bad management
a finance company can make a much more
surprising breakage than a retail cash boot-
shop or a coffee stall. How many
finance companies, assets realisation com-
panies, loan and discount companies,
private banks, land companies and
miscellaneous money-dealing and kite-flying
propositions came to grief in the early 90’s
of last century it is hardly possible to remem-
ber. Even before the troubles in Europe
began to knock the bottom out of finance
Earle Hermann Limited fell on evil days.
And its days presently grew worse, for it
represented the kind of business which is
least able to stand a world-wide shock.
There were reports that the boss potentate
had fallen ill through worry. Later he
was charged with forgery, and docu-
ments of a face value of £42,000 were handed
up to the magistrate. The magistrate looked
at them through his spectacles and offered
no opinion, but he refused bail. The com-
pany had already been ordered to be wound
up. Nothing very definite was said about
the assets and liabilities. Certain people
apnlied to the Court to have their names
removed from the share register, on the alle-
gation that they had never bought the shares
which stood m their names, and didn’t want
to have anything to do with them. One
said tnat when he was a legal infant ho
received £1306 worth of 1\ per cent, cumula-
tive shares, yet his dividends were only about
2s. 10d. Rumor alleges that a bank nianagei
who did a lot of business for the company
became so depressed that he took a Saturday
off and went fishing and only caught one dead
lobster. Nobody has yet been convicted of
anything, but the air is full of picturesque
speculation. At ordinary times the yarn
would have been worth more to the daily
papers than a first-class murder, with a pic-
ture of the scene of the crime and a cross
to show where the body of Jane Smith
was discovered, weltering in gore. Owing
to scarcity of paper, and the falling off in
the bottled cocktail advertisement, and the
clamor about the capture, by some unpro-
nounceable Russian, of an Austrian town
named Plggg, the story has fallen almost as
flat as mud.
About Half-baked People and Half-
baked Projects.
These are some recent remarks by Premier
Holman, of N.5.W., ..0n the financial situa-
tion of the State which he disorganises:—
I have been nearly driven into my grave by the
number and variety of suggestions made for financing
the State works... .Retrenchment may become neces-
sary. It may be in consequence of the war—not of
warlike operations carried on by the State Govern-
ment, which has no warlike operations to carry on,
but as a result of the shrinkage of all sources of
revenue.... I do not wish to say more beyond offer-
ing my emphatic protest against the half-baked
criticisms of uninstructed persons upon schemes not
yet promulgated.
The Bulletin doesn’t seek to be personal,
yet it wonders if there is in all the world a
more half-baked or uninstructed political
bounder than Holman— not even excepting
Kaiser William. Holman and his wretched
gang attained office on a promise that there
would be solvent finance; that no loan
money would be expended except on works
which would pay full interest and sinking
fund ; and that borrowing, which was then
fairly low, would be still further reduced.
Instead of keeping their promises, they in-
creased borrowing about 300 per cent. They
spent the loan money so recklessly that
important public works which used to pay
their way began to show a heavy loss. With
the biggest revenue that the State ever
enjoyed they created a shortage that was
absolutely magnificent. And instead of
fixing up a sinking fund for new loans they
suspended the sinking fund on old loans.
In fact, Holman and co. drivelled with,
much pomp and theatrical eloquence into a
policy which made N.S.W. more dependent
on the luck of foreign loans than any other
place on earth. If they had kept faith, and
lived up to their promises, N.S.W. would be
a l . se^.' su PP or^n 8 State, and European com-
plications would hardly have affected it
But having preferred to take the half-baked
way and the uninstructed course, they have
naturally brought the Ma community into
trouble. It is characteristic of Holman
Iscariot that he should pose at this crisis
not as a political traitor who ran the ship
on the rocks, but as the strong, honest, silent
navigator who is being unduly worried by
the comments and advice of steerage pas-
sengers. No disreputable public financier
has more contempt for the comments of
steerage passengers than Holman.
-
The Good Bumble and Benevolent
Dogberry of Germany.
“Coot” —his yarn:—
Australian advocates of increased powers for
municipalities will find many attractive facts and
exceHent suctions in W. H. Dawson's new book,
Municipal Life and Government in Germany.”
In the country of Kaiserdom, municipal authori-
ties possess and fully exercise far wider powers than
the most progressive cities of England. Thus
many German towns have not only established muni-
cipal pawnshops (I’m not struck on pawnshops, but
if we must have them let us keep the private shark
out), but provide gratuitous legal and medical
advice for the poor.
The people who have begn driven to war by the
blatherskiting Wilhelm have been the pioneers in
school hygiene. Every Teutonic youngster is under
the supervision of a municipal dentist and oculist.
Municipal restaurants and beer-houses are very com-
mon. In the encouragement of art and literature
the municipalities play a leading part. Subsidies
are granted to local theatres, bands and orchestras.
Grants are given to dramatic and musical societies.
No theatres in Germany maintain the drama at a
higher level than the municipal theatres in the
large towns. Public taste has been trained to look
for the best, and, as the demand, so is the supply.
Many German municipal theatres present more
Shakspearian plays in a week than the average
English theatre outside London presents in a couple
of years. In a recent year two Mannheim muni-
cipal playhouses presented 161 separate works,
including 93 dramas and 62 operas. The dramas
included 15 by Schiller, 10 by Siiakspeare, three
by Goethe, three by Lessing, five by Moliere, four
by Sheridan, and several by Ibsen. The operas
included several by Mozart, Beethoven, Weber
and Wagner. That plays of the kind mentioned are
given appears proof positive that the German public
looks to the municipal theatre for the cultivation of
the highest possible standard of dramatic taste and
achievement. According to Dawson, the great
majority of these theatres pay well.
One of the most striking fields of German muni-
cipal power and authority is the policy of land pur-
chase. Nearly every German city absolutely owns
50 per cent, of the municipal area. Lands are pur-
chased for the purpose of creating small holdings
and laborers allotments. Dawson gives some
striking figures in respect to this land-purchase
system. In 1910, 73 of the large German towns
bought land to the aggregate extent of 9584 acres,
and to the aggregate value of over £4,000,000.
Chariottenburg now owns 2500 acres of land as yet
not built upon, and the value of its whole real
estate is about £4,500,000. In 1886 Freiburg owned
11,000 acres, with a value of £925,000. In 1909
its estate was only 2000 acres larger, but its value
was then £2,500,000. Berlin itself has an estate
more than three times greater than its administra-
tive area.
Many of the towns make profits by reselling portion
of the lands. Thus, Ulm, in 19 years, bought
1300 acres for £316,000, and sold 420 acres for
£406,000. By means of these profits from land
transactions taxes are kept to a minimum.
One very important distinction between German
and the municipal government of other lands is the
fact that the city fathers of German towns are
salaried officers, yet elected by the people. In
Britain and Australia, the chief magistrates are
more or less ephemeral figureheads—local grocers,
drapers or butchers, temporarily elevated to
“hoffice,” assisted or hindered by fellow-councillors
whose chief qualification is log-rolling or a mere
“gift of the gab.” In Germany the burgomaster
and aldermen are permanent, trained servants and
experts, at first elected for 12 years, and on re-
election appointed for life. There are now estab-
lished throughout Germany special schools for
instruction in civil adminstration. Thus, the coun-
cillors have the confidence of the public, the full
responsibility of power, and are given time to
achieve results—three things which appear to the
present scribe to recommend the German municipal
system. 1
The suburban gardener who writes to Ger-
many for a dozen packets of flower seeds
and sends cash with the order, is liable to
grow a fine crop of troubles if he does it
this spring. Also the seedsman who com-
monly relies on Berlin and Sausagedorf for
much of his stock will this year have plenty
ot vacancies on his shelves. The law relat-
mf i 0 ‘ rade with an enemy looks compli-
cated, but is really simple. The salient
point is that you mustn’t supply the enemy
with money If a German or Austria?
tiading in his own country, shipped goods
w\th WaV f ta -r tcd you may acce Pt them
with safety only if you paid before the war
started. If he shipped them before thl
war started and no payment was then made,
you may apparently pay an agent in this
country provided you have no reason to
believe that the agent will send op the money
to his principal. If you have reason to
believe that he will do so, you are liable to
something with a lot of gaol in it. With
a German or Austrian resid at in this coun-
try you may trade till the cows die of old
age, always provided that the said German
or Austrian isn’t here against this country’s
wish. Also you may trade with a German
or Austrian in America or any other neutral
country, or even, it seems, with a foreign
branch of a German house. Nationality,
, t A doe . count : is the country in
which the trader lives that matters. Thus
it appears if you have a British friend who
lives in Hamburg it would just now be
treason or something terrible to send him a
s lilling for a dozen of William’s humorous
postcards. In the same way it would be a
crime for a Broken Hill co. to send a divi-
dend to any shareholder living in Germany
aad there are a good many of them, partly
no doubt, because it was a German who dis-
covered that Broken Hill was a mine. Not
that he knew much more about it than the
next man; indeed, he thought he had found
♦-
“Amateuk Mobilises” writes:—
All the risks of prophecy may be taken with some
confidence on at least one point in connection with
the war. Before the struggle ends Europe will be
stripped almost bare of horses. Another point is
that on Australia the present and prospective drain
of horseflesh is going to have a very serious effect—
so serious as to call for attention. The new style of
slaying armies calls for a greater relative use of
horses than did the old. The Germans, for instance
—and it may be assumed the other parties to the
squabble also—carry on practically the whole of their
movements behind a screen of cavalry and mounted
infantry. Covered by this mobile force is the actual
fighting line which arrives with its left hook of
devastation. In a campaign covering such a front as
is now engaged, the number of mounted men required
is enormous. The wastage of good horse must be
correspondingly great. On active service of the rest-
less, breathless character the public is now reading
very little about, proper care of the horses will be
impossible. The havoc already created among them
is, perhaps, inadequately conveyed by two items of
news published last week. One was that the French
cavalry was unable, owing to the utter exhaustion of
the animal beneath it, to help the British out of
that temporary Hell they got into near Cambrai
during the Allies’ retreat. The other was that the
mounts of captured German cavalry nowadays consist
of worn-out, exhausted crocks, “from which the skin
peels when the saddles are lifted.” It isn’t the
skin that peels off a sore-backed horse. The skin
wears through, and it’s what’s underneath that comes
away. But let that pass. The horse is clearly having
a mighty bad time. How Germany is going to keep
up the supply is a problem for Von Moltke and his
sword-swallowing boss. Russia can horse its men.
France can draw supplies from Northern Africa,
Italy and Spain. J. Bull cc.n furnish a fair num-
ber; so, too, could Canada, the United States and
Australia. But the Commonwealth has to think the
business over. It may need a prad or two itself one
of these days.
On August 12, a London person named
“E. W. Bennett, late Royal Navy,” wrote
to Reynolds’s cursing the Australian
Defence Act in the manner following:—
The exemption from compulsory military training,
which your Tasmanian correspondent asserts can be
claimed by “the majority of country lads,” is not
provided for by the Australian Defence Act. On
the contrary, it provides that if a British lad has a
healthy love of liberty and is courageous enough to
resist an “un-British” act, the following sentence is
soon passed upon him: “You are committed to the
custody of the officer commanding the Royal Aus-
tralian Garrison Artillery at Port Phillip Fortress for
20 days,” thus making internal foes while “W.H.M.”
is busy looking for external foes. To their shame,
the men of 1910 fastened the soldier’s knapsack upon
the shoulders of voteless boys, while men perhaps
like “W.H.M.” went free. May I remind him that
Australia became a free country by inheritance; she
has never struggled or suffered to secure her
liberties; they were a gift, and so she does not appre-
ciate their value. That is why some of her best
citizens are in gaol to-day. That is why families are
leaving Australia for freer lands. That is why I
hope Reynolds’s will allow me to warn English lads
of this military Eden “down under.”
A few days after August 2 Britain was at
war, and up against the fact that
freedom” from military training may lead
to _ slavery _by the invader. The most
anti-Australian person in the Senate
before the double dissolution was Sena-
tor Clemons. He objected loudly to
compulsory service, and the country
passed him out. “Mr. E. W. Bennett, late
Royal Navy,” is presumably very silent these
days also.
+
A despairing kick of the Freetrade jimjam
took the form of a cartoon in the Sydney
Telegraph last Saturday morning. In this
masterpiece of imbecility, under the title of
‘Tariff Logic,” Andrew Fisiier was repre-
sented as talking to a dejected group of two
men and a woman with a baby in her arms,
and perorating with: “I’ve got a brilliant
idea, friends, that will relieve your wants.
I’ll raise the tariff, and so increase the cost
ot living.” If the immigrant who presum-
ably inspired the picture had glanced at the
commercial columns of his own diminished
publication he would have seen that, owing to
the war, the price of everything imported
is soaring rapidly, because supply doesn’t
keep pace with demand. The only way to
get prices down to normality and reason-
ableness is to start local manufactures on a
really big scale, and the only way to induce
men to expend hundreds of thousands of
pounds in new plant is to give them the
assurance that, if the war suddenly ends, the
Australian market will be still preserved to
them. If the immigrant of the Telegraph
knows any other way to do it, let him tell
this country what the other way is.
[C. A. Jeffries, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
+
A letter from the front:—
The Postal Department shares its irresponsibility
for the loss of postal parcels with any Railway De-
partment that handles the goods, and between the two
autocratic powers the parcel-sender’s claim for com-
pensation is bound to fall to the ground, seemingly.
The other week Newman, the Melbourne jeweller,
posted a package of some little value (which might
have been of great value) to the Wagga Experi-
mental Farm, Bomen (N.S.W ). The package never
reached its destination, and the P.M.G. in Melbourne
was called upon to explain. The explanation was a
staggering exposure of departmental methods. The
Deputy-P.M.G. begged to inform the jeweller that the
dispatch of the parcel to Bomen, N.S.W., was duly re-
corded, and the Deputy-P.M.G. in Sydney had “investi-
gated” the matter without discovering what became
of the trinket. It was just “missing,” like the ship which
never returned. The Bomen Post Office is conducted by
a railway official, therefore the N.S.W. railway
authorities were asked to accept responsibility for the
loss. But they refused to blame themselves, “or to
call upon their official, who is considered to be at
fault, to pay for such loss.” The Railway authorities’
reason for leaving jeweller Newman to whistle for his
money is a shocking novelty in excuses. The Bomen
P.O. has no record that the article was received, and
as to the allegation that its dispatch was advised
by mail—well, “mail advices at Bomen are not filed
for future reference, but are destroyed after receipt.”
The parcel having vanished, and no advice of its
mailing being possibly existent, owing to the calm
destructive methods of the postmaster, who is also a
railway official, its disappearance is a mystery that
troubles nobody save the consignor and consignee.
■ *
The cabled whisper that the Germans have
devised a new and terrible Zeppelin that
drops not bombs, but torpedoes, with which
to wipe out the entire British fleet, is not
likely to cause much apprehension. So far
the Zeppelin type of airship has carefully
refrained from attacking warships. The Zep
is too large and too prone to be set on fire’
A Zep., it must be remembered, has a bag of
gas about the size of a White Star liner
and to greet it the British ships carry a
todd^ 1 2 - U ? w^ ich . hurJ s a fire shell about
7000yds into the air. When that fire shell
of TOvd's S Tb * con , fla fation for a radius
t a he best Ze PPelih has leak-
fP, . Inflammable gas is always oozing
through the joints of its envelope, so the
susceptibility to fire is enormous. Also
the fleet carries hydro-aeroplanes of high
power, and these things carry machine guns
and as they are about twice as fast as the
Zeppelm, that unwieldy armed whale of the
air has small show. No, the Zeppelins mav
soar over defenceless cities at night-time
and drop bombs, or they may soar over
reti eating troops and drop bombs as thev
did over the British at Cambrai, but thev
are not likely to play a decisive part against
armored battleships equipped with vertical
guns and aeroplanes. The submarine is a
much more dangerous animal.
Me!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I have seen the letter,” said Mr. Holman. “I
have been nearly driven into my grave by the number
and variety of suggestions made for financing the
State works.... Retrenchment may become necessary.
It may be in consequence of the war—not of warlike
operations carried on by the State Government, which
has no warlike operations to carry on, but as a
result of the shrinkage of all sources of revenue....
I do not wish to say more, beyond offering my
emphatic protest against the half-baked criticism of
uninstructed persons upon schemes not yet promul-
gated.”—The strong-borrowing Premier in his agony
(in Sydney D. T., 24/9/’l4).
When—just before this tiresome War
began—
The Ma State swam in borrowed £ s. d.,
Who was it led the Strong Loan-stormers
van?
Why, Me !
And who, when everything looked nice and
bland,
And things all round seemed right as right
could be—
Who scattered money o’er a smiling land?
Why, Me !
When (as already stated) war commenced,
And Uncle from his pawnshop tried to flee,
Who felt that we were righteously incensed?
Why, Me !
Who proved that there was no excuse for
strife —
That all men dwelt in harmony and glee—
That Germany loved Peace far more than
life?
Why, Me !
And who declared that talk of War was
skite —
That Honor lived in Berlin-on-the-Spree—
That Norman Angell was entirely right?
Why, Me - !
Yes, me! And who was very much annoyed
To find that in this happy Land, and free,
Europe aflame meant heaps of unemployed?
Why, Me !
The Kaiser never asked for my consent!
Perhaps he guessed that I should disagree—
He must have known what his rash action
meant
To Me !
Short revenue, no loans, half-pay all round;
Except, of course, to each hard-worked M.P.;
There’s no one else so worried, I’ll be bound,
As Me !
My CURSE on Europe—in no dubious
tones !
This beastly War may last two years, or
three!
And, while it lasts, what hope is there of
loans
For Me ?
And, now, a final woe’s heaped on my head
By “uninstructed persons,” with a plea
That I should make good all that has been
said
By Me !
N.S.W.
MONTY PEET.


Pro4vci of £cofbad
GAELIC WHISKY
. the old smuggler
fio®
B
GAELIC
The Perfect Whisky
... in ...
The Perfect Bottle.
DISTILLED IN THE
HIGHLANDS of SCOTLAND.
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
The War So Far As It Has Gone.
When The Bulletin went to press the
battle of the Aisne (France) was in its
fourteenth day, and over 2,000,000 Ger-
mans, French and British were engaged,
and the country was running blood. Also,
the heroic remnant of the Belgian army
was raving in the German rear, and doing
all the damage it could. Nowadays the
battles of Great Powers are not named
after towns or villages, but after rivers,
because the fight pervades a whole river
valley, and the line may be 200 miles long.
Indeed, unless the commander selects a
good long river, the fight hangs out past the
end of it on each side. The battle of the
Marne lasted about a fortnight, and at the
conclusion the German invaders were pushed
back. They rallied at the Aisne, and there
are great hopes that they will be pushed
back again. But it is a vast, hideous,
slaughterous business. Enough men to popu-
late a big capital are already dead. Four
grand old cities and multitudes of smaller
towns and villages are heaps of ruins. The
farmhouse and the cow and the pig and the
wheat-crop have vanished like cobwebs struck
by lightning. The bank is ashes, and the
building society is blown up, and the deposit
is trodden in the mud. Thousands and thou-
sands of people are living on charity and
stolen turnips; and any number of the ladies
who used to represent what corresponds to
Darling Point in Sydney or Toorak in Mel-
bourne are widows, and are looking for ill-
paid jobs at washing, and not finding nearly
enough wash to go round. In France the
very aged grandfather, and the women and
the infants are trying to keep the farms and
other industries going in a sort of way.
The robust men have gone to defend the coun-
try, and the grandfather who isn’t quite para-
lytic has got some old uniform which dates
back to the Crimea or the last siege of Paris,
and is doing guard duty with a left-off
weapon to prevent the enemy destroying rail-
ways, bridges and other essentials. In Bel-
gium things are worse than in France, and
in Germany and Austria, by reason of the
stoppage of food imports, they are quite as
bad. Yet no one can say for certain that
the wonderful war has much more than com-
menced. The Russian army is stepping out
on the long road to Vienna, but it is a very
long road. In Eastern Prussia the stupendous
battle between Russians and Germans is just
about to commence, and there are suspicions
that it may be even a bigger affair than the
battle of the Marne or the battle, of the
Aisne. It is rather difficult to realise that
Russia has hardly started yet. Multitudes of
the troops from outlying places like Turkestan
and Eastern Siberia may not be in the firing
line for another eight weeks. Britain, also,
has hardly commenced yet; it reckons on
shoving another 500,000 or 700,000 men to
the front if they are wanted. Italy and
Roumania and Spain are only thinking about
taking a hand. Everything is a stupendous
nightmare, or the preface to a stupendous
nightmare. A maddened Kaiser has let things
loose, and no one knows where or when the
calamity will end. But amid all this tragedy
Broken Hill (N.S.W.) has thrown a gleam
of light and joy upon the world. Its miners
rose the other day and demanded: (1) Free
tickets for the local sports; (2) free rail-
way carriage on sports day; (3) the partial
suspension of the local sanitary rate.
Ex-Premier Murray informed the Mel-
bourne Agricultural Show lunchers, last
week, that he is “a believer in peace.” John
is more than that. He is an enthusiast for
quietude and a whale for rest and sleep.
Plain, ordinary peace is of no value to
Murray. He wants insensibility and a large
feather-bed in the middle of a shadowed con-
tinent, and tons of calm, and no work, and
the gigantic somnolence of a dead world. If
John was the Last Man, after somebody had
sandbagged the Universe, he might get his
natural repose, but he won’t get it till then.
The champion cable imbecility of the week
concerned the alleged “narrow escape of
King Albert of Belgium” : —-
During a tour of inspection his Majesty noticed
his chauffeur making towards the German lines. He
ordered the man to stop, but he continued on at full
speed.
King Albert thereupon drew a revolver and shot
the chauffeur dead.
A document was found in the dead man’s pocket
offering - a million francs if he would carry off the
King.
No king goes on tours of inspection, in war-
time, without armed guards. Every authen-
tic report agrees that the Allies are keeping
King Albert as far as possible from the
German lines, for the obvious reason that his
capture would have a prejudicial moral effect
on the troops opposed to the Germans. For
the chauffeur to have succeeded in his ven-
ture he would have required, accordingly,
to drive many miles (certainly 10 or 15,
perhaps 50 or more), with a car full of
vigorous soldiers, armed to the teeth with
revolvers, swords, rifles, bayonets, knives,
spanners and sundries, attacking him from
behind. The final touch of lunacy is sup-
plied by the statement that the chauffeur was
in the habit of carrying around with him, as
though it were a valued testimonial, a docu-
ment which, if discovered, would have got
him shot on sight.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Girl in the Taxi”
Royae “Sweet Nell of Old Drury”
Criterion “The Yellow Ticket”
Palace “The Worst Woman in London”
Adelpiii “The Rosary”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
Imperial Salon de Luxe Dancing
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Gipsy Love”
Royal “The Silver King”
King’s “Death or Glory Boys”
Princess’s “Mr. Wu”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Bijou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville
Olympia & National Hoyts’ Pictures
♦
Budding sopranos in 1920 will possibly
arrange an insurrection against the all-star
monopoly of Mrs. Nellie Melba. By that
date it may be a fair thing to ask: “When
is the Australian skylark going out of busi-
ness to hop into a well-lined nest?” Just
now the lady is singing in the same record
breaking fashion which has made her a
female Colossus of song for the last —never
mind the number of milestones. Melba sings
with her brain. Her technique baffles criti-
cism. It drowns the fact that the beautiful
voice which floated over Sydney Town Hall
on Saturday night is not a large one, as
famous sopranos go. Yet where is the singer
who can rival the exquisite vocalisation of
the famous Australian when she warbles an
operatic aria? Both the Ave Maria from
“Otello” and the Mad Scene from “Lucia di
Lammerinoor” were flawless samples of vocal
art. The Philharmonic Society lent its valu-
able aid to this outbreak for the N.S.W.
Red Cross funds. Malcolm McEachern’s
baritone rolled over Handel’s “Arm, Arm, Ye
Brave!” Joseph Bradley’s arrangement for
full orchestra of Tourrier’s setting of Arthur
Adams’s spirited “Australian National Song”
put new vim into the rather monotonous
music that Carries “Vast the Heritage we
Hold.”
* H*
A lot of foreign loan money has been
spent on permanent afld reproductive works
in Australia since Nellie Stewart made her
first appearance in “Sweet Nell of Old
Drury”; but Kester’s harmonious old cos-
tume-melodrama, in which the curly king
talks to the curly dog and is greatly com-
forted thereby, wears well, while the dis-
tinguished leading lady, with yet another
basket of oranges, wears even better. The
present revival at Sydney Royal is worthy
of the frilly, red-heeled play, which moves
as smoothly as ever towards its sugary end-
ing to a soothing accompaniment of sweet
old airs. Nellie herself acts with nearly
all her old charm; and no reasonable person
could ask for more than that. Clarence
Blakisfon makes Charles 11. a Lewis Waller
character, and does it adroitly. One misses
the Harcourt Beatty rasp when the royal
philanderer enters in Act 11., just too late
to discover Nell talking excitedly with the
fugitive Fairfax. “Why. Nell, I thought I
“SWEET NELL,” AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
Nellie Stewart and Stuart Ciyde in freak
millinery.
heard vices!” used to be Beatty’s opening;
and somehow the lines seemed to gain by the
slight mispronunciation. Lewis Willoughby
makes a good-looking Fairfax, but he is a
trifle stiff and awkward. Stuart Clyde,
buried in the curls of Lord Rochester, at
times looks startlingly like the Lady
Rochester that never was. Agnes Keogh
(Lady Castlemaine) and Kathleen Law-
rence (Duchess of Portsmouth) sneer as
well as any of their predecessors; and
Nancye Stewart’s faults, as the subdued
heroine Lady Olivia Vernon, are the faults
of robust youth. She doesn’t look the. droopy
type, and when she screams she is inclined
to scream for all she is worth. Vivian Ed-
wards, the Lord Jeffreys of the show, is
perhaps the weakest spot in the cast, rlis
villainous snarl is overdone, and he works
so hard to appear terrible that one suspects
him of being rather a decent sort.
'!* •!* v
“The Yellow Ticket” will be passed out
to the public, at Sydney Criterion, for one
more week. An official who should know
has just assured The Bulletin by tele-
phone that he has been to see the play, and
that it does not represent Russia fairly.
That is quite probable. Dramatists are
highly imaginative people, and ever since
William Shakspeare said “The play’s the
thing,” the dramatic tradesman has cheer-
fully murdered Truth. If anyone has ven-
tured to remonstrate with him he has
retorted that he isn’t a Government statisti-
“SWEET NELL,"
AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
CLARENCE BLAKISTON ( King of England):
“Odds, Fish! Thou art the only friend I
have left! ”
JEAMES: “Say not ' Fishd You make my
mouth water.”
cian, and has resumed his murdering. In
every period the dramatist and novelist has
a habit of using some other country as the
dreadful example, and as the place where the
horrors happen. This generally occurs
during or after a war. He is a stereotyped
person, is the dramatist, and he plants his
horrors in the stereotyped country till some-
thing happens to upset the joke. Perhaps
an alliance is made with that place, and
then the wretched man falls on the neck of
his horrible example and does an embrace.
There are quite a lot of masterpieces which
wouldn’t bear republication to-day because
the political situation has changed. Even
a new edition of “L’Homme Qui Hit’ might
get a cold reception in France these times.
And “The Yellow Ticket” isn’t exactly a
masterpiece.
sh * ❖
There is nothing to add to the previous
warning regarding “The Girl in the. Taxi, ’
namely, that the show is in its last nights at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney. Anyone who fails
to be in at the death, or thereabouts; after this
final solemn intimation, has only him or her-
self to blame, and it will be mentioned on
the tombstone that the person underneath
missed the ’bus.
*% * *
In case the advt. on page 40 or the show
list at the head of this column isn’t sufficient
reminder, it is repeated here once more that
“The Rosary” continues to be a big success
at the Sydney Adelphi, and that the end is
not yet in sight. The -Necessary Commodities
Committee has refused to make any altera-
tion in the price of admission.
“The Countenance at the Casement” will
thrill audiences no more at the Palace (Syd-
ney) after Friday —at least, not this season.
On Saturday, William Anderson will intro-
duce to the circle of his friends and patrons
“The Worst Woman in London.” She is
one of the most popular pieces in William’s
extensive store-house. It is a job of soipe
size to find the worst woman in any big city,
for she is always changing. The old bal-
dest woman repents, and in her place the
flapper goes to moral wreck. But William
Anderson tries to make the best of a difficult
situation.
** * *
Among the newcomers at the Sydney
Tivoli are the Carpatii Bros., one of whom
is, allegedly, “The only Man in the World
executing the Realy Twist Somersault from
the First Bar to the Third Bar over the
Middle Bar, a distance of 15ft.” The
Bulletin has often Twist Somersaulted
from the 6d. Bar to the 3d. Bar over the
Marble Bar, a distance of four blocks; but
the Tivoli performance is altogether new.
Wright and Dietrich, a couple of first-class
songsters, and Phil Kaufmann,. a coon imper-
sonator, are the other new arrivals. Cinque-
valli’s name is now missing from the pro-
gramme, but there are still Mme. Fatima, A 1
Herman, violinist Damond and Dusty Rhodes.
The Tiv., by the way, is now giving daily
matinees.
** * *
There has been a continuous and welcome
sound of revelry this week at Sydney’s
Salon de Luxe. These are the days and
nights when an hour’s tango is more profit-
able and inspiriting than ten special editions
and a whole evening’s explanation by an
amateur admiral of the fight between a whale
and a cruiser in Lorraine. On October 14, a
big naval and military ball is to be held, the
proceeds of which will be handed to Minister
for Defence Pearce in aid of the dependents
of those lost in submarine AEI.
Budget of information from the Official
Picture Bureau: —
Crystal Palace: “The Debt,” a less bulky though
much more entertaining article than Premier Hol-
man’s. Deals with the usual gentle maiden who
pawned her good name for 4d. to buy her starving
Ma some beer, and redeemed the article again in the
last act. Also, “The Property Man,” another of
the big Keystone comedies.
Colonial : “Shorty and the Aridville Terror, a
lengthy mixture of cowboys, teeth, pretty girls and
dentists.
** * *
The “Forty Thieves’’ panto, has run a
strenuous fortnight at Adelaide Royal, and
Herbert Myers, who, after long being the
Firm’s resident manager, now achieves all
front-of-the-house work for it —does not have
to worry about any cash scarcity. The three
Rubes are a joyous excrescence on the show
not previously acclaimed, and Dolly Har-
mer’s low comedy well backs up the
quieter, more artistic methods of Lupino
and Brett. She gives the present writer a
fatigued feeling: but he hastens, to admit
that an angel-child confided to him, during
one of the most brilliant scenes, a prefer-
ence for “the other part, where Lizzie Ann
comes in” ; and Lizzie Ann is Miss Harmer.
On the other hand, Atholwood, finely as he
acts, never seems in the picture (except in
the cave scene, which he has to himself).
To hear that sombre, almost tragic, figure
tricked into saying “I are a fool,” seems
like setting Irving’s Shylock to oblige with
a bit of ragtime. The panto, has now gone
West, and Bert Bailey has come in, with
an unexpectedly American aspect. Mclntosh
is sending a lot of new turns to the Tivoli.
Russell and Held only do song-and-dance,
but they do it —especially the latter —with
a clever individuality. The four Boises
have something new to give in the way of
high trapeze work. The girl is graceful, and
one of the men (who does most of the work)
is funny as well. At the King’s, Norwood
and Dare do some charming athletic work
cleanly and quietly, without asking for
applause; but they get it. The flying Bart-
letts have just happened. Pictures are un-
usually strong. “Antony and Cleopatra”
at West’s; “House of Temperley” at Won-
dergraph; the latter and the Pav. (being
open all day) had some record crowds on
the afternoon when S.A. troops marched
through the city.
** * *
Incidentally, there have been several public
discourses of interest in Adelaide. Professor
Hudson Beare told a gathering of his old
school (Prince Alfred’s) that he has in
England been upholding, in an engineering
journal, the unpopular cause of State owner-
ship of railways; and this visit to his native
land has strengthened his arguments, be-
cause he does not think the management of
railways in Australia could be improved
upon ! Then Mrs. Daisy M. Bates, lecturing
on the blackfellows, protested, to an influ-
ential audience, against the “civilisation”
that is handed out to them; she had “never
seen a case in which civilisation and
Christianity had survived, in a pure-bred
native, to the third generation.” Finally, a
well-meaning person has been lecturing on
the real nature of Armageddon. He pro-
fesses to have Inside Information on the
subject.
x* * *
Melbourne Repertory Theatre has staged
Australian plays that were crude in form and
wanting in variety of movement as com-
pared with “Mrs. Pretty and the Premier.”
Claiming to be an Australian comedy for the
local market, the play,, by Arthur. Adams,
has a surface air of being a practical com-
mercial proposition, which it certainly is not.
“Mrs. Pretty and the Premier” is neither
droll enough in its extravagances, nor suffi-
ciently convincing in its sentimentality.
An audience that took no interest in the
authors, or other Repertory circumstances of
the performance, would get little entertain-
ment from the work. There is something
to be said in favor of the material, as well as
the careful craftsmanship, of course. It
has the merit of a bright and lively heroine.
Her least possible actions seem not incon-
sistent, as a rule, with her irresponsible
character, and she is the mainstay of the
piece. Her desire for instant matrimony
is incredibly sudden, but the plot couldn’t
get along without it. The typisfe in the
Premier’s office is effective in her farcical
way, though she is a gross libel on the heads
of Governments. No Australian Premier
employs a girl typist and shorthand writer,
nor would she hang her hat in his private
room if he kept such a person on the
nremises. The sketch of old messenger
Gregory, the conventional woman-hater, is
neat and well placed. The Labor Premier
himself is almost a forcible fiction, with
suggestions of truth in his casual remarks.
But he is mostly concerned in ridiculous
proceedings which the audience is expected
to take seriously. Mrs. Pretty is supposed
to admire him for his “strength,” whilst
the audience is only struck by his fictitious-
ness. The reporter for the Tribune, who
sets the plot in motion, is serious even to
solemnity; likewise the Leader of the Op-
position. They a.re a pair of smileless
prigs pouring oil into the sacred lamp of
extravaganza, as it were. The Party Whip
is another dull person helping to fill the
grotesque political situation, and the Pre-
mier’s Chief Secretary is a steady. young
man who doesn’t mark the distinction
between the sublime and the preposterous..
* * * *
A superfluity of dialogue in the first and
longest act is hardly worth mentioning.
Many lines that never would be missed
should have gone at the first rehearsal. It
is hard to understand how the opening of
the first act came to be so slow, seeing that
in the rest of the proceedings Arthur Adams
shows a keen sense of what to leave out.
Miss Allie Robson, as Mrs. Pretty, took the
honors of the performance. The character
is a pleasing exaggeration of its type, and
Miss Robson gave it a natural cplor.
F. B. Reeve, previously well placed
in heavy tyrant parts, was. not quite accept-
able as a glib-tongued politician who takes


DANIEL
CRAWFORD’S
RED STAR
SCOTCH WHISKY.
insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Pitt & King Streets, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch : 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. s . j. fowler, Manager.
Queensland Branch : 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane, j. A . watson, Manager.
FIRE, ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
2 36 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. Q. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
lessons in love-making from his typiste.
Any smaller member of the co. might have
been less acceptable, however. Frank Kern
was the most notable of eight or 10 other
people, because his was a pure comedy part,
and he played it very well. The typiste,
the secretary and the Leader of the Oppo-
sition did fairly good work under more try-
ing circumstances, but the sec.’s sham
moustache was a glaring fraud.
* * * *
Galsworthy’s “Joy” will be the second pro-
duction of this Repertory season. The
first of three performances is to-night
(Thursday), Gregan McMahon, Mrs. Dud-
ley and Norman Carter being in the cast.
* * * *
Three of the Melbourne theatres change
the bill next Saturday. At the Royal they
will take down “The Sign of the Cross” and
put “Silver King” in its place. Julius
Superbus, the converted pagan, appears as
Wilfred, the penitent punter; and Irene
Browne, the most passionate of all the
Berenices this country has seen, will be a
new variety of Nellie Denver. At the
Princess’s the naughty nights of “Who’s the
Lady?” are numbered. “Mr. Wu” comes
due on Saturday, and another co. will take
the stage, which lapses into significant dark-
ness when Gobette and the Minister of Jus-
tice blow their candles out. The “Mr. Wu”
co. has Beatrice Day for a special engage-
ment. The King’s, still harping on battle,
murder and sudden decease, is about to sub-
stitute “Death or Glory Boys” for “The
Fighting Squadron.” Now is the time for
revival of any old warlike drama of the
jingo breed, but The Bulletin would sug-
gest an up-to-date tragedy to follow, entitled,
say, “The Krautful Kaiser, or the Sausage
in the Soup.”
** * *
Dolores was singing at Melbourne Town
Hall four nights last week, and the warble
of that gracious lady filled four large audi-
ences with gladness or sadness, according to
the character of her song. She smiled, and
the crowd smole with her. or she sighed, and
they asked for more. This week Dolores
is touring in Vic., but she will be back at
headquarters for a matinSe on Saturday
next, the idea being to give those who weren’t
able to hear her last time a chance to revel
in her Art.
ik $ $ $
Melbourne Tivoli programme is thickly en-
crusted with new turns this week. The
Powers Brothers, whose muscular wealth is
partly packed in gladiatorial trappings, are
more than satisfactory in a balancing act;
but the value of Torino’s juggling buiness is
impaired by the pretentious display of Jap
scenery, paper lanterns and umbrellas. More-
over, the artist’s Dago name, Yankee cloth-
mg. and mostly European tricks put him out
of harmony with his surroundings. James
Teddy, accused of being a star jumper, was
too indisposed to answer the charge on Satur-
day, and will be considered by this enor-
mously influential publication next week.
George Hall, described as “America’s clever-
est story-teller,” made a first appearance
according to contract. George exploits a
heavy mummer personality in the recitation
ot humorous and pathetic stories and poems,
and is loud and forcible in several places.
His greatest success i s Kipling’s mucli-
mouthed ‘Gunga Din,” mostly rendered with
the accent on the “Din.”
* * * s[s
Melbourne Bijou bill wore a luridly Yan-
kee complexion on Saturday. Winter and
h ield, Brown and Lawson, Bogues and Oli-
vetti, Jessie M. Millar, and two or three
others, were all recent imports from the
Lhicago tinned-meat countrv. Jessie Millar
demonstrating her prowess on an apparentlv
mongrel instrument described as a piano-
accordeon, was about the best of the in-
vasion. Bogues and Olivetti secured second
place for the refinement and vocal qualitv of
their rather thin sketch. Brown and Law-
son s turn was not a remarkably startling
“ WHO’S THE
LADY?" AT
MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S.
Edward Landor.
item, and there was more evidence of pyjamas
than point, and a stronger suggestion of bed-
linen than brains about Winter and Field’s
weird melange called “Scattered Dreams.”
Also, the renowned Daisy Jerome was pre-
sent, but there is no need for this paper to
stress the importance of that exuberant young
person. As a matter of fact, the artist sup-
plies all the emphasis necessary with her
pink hair, scarlet background and aggressive
insistence on the humor of her songs.
** * *
The Wirths are bringing their circus back to
Melbourne on October 10, and the lions will
roar again upon the old menagerie site. A
baby elephant and six lion cubs have been
born into the menagerie since last time it
shed its perfume near the Yarra. Also the
circus has acquired so many new feats in
the arena that the Wirths look forward with
confidence to a terrible rush on their encamp-
ment when the campaign opens.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Melb” : Exit St. George’s Hall, Bourke-
street, before the fury of the rebuilder. It
is not a tragedy comparable to those of
Rheims and Louvain. The civilised world
will not deplore its loss. As a matter of
sordid fact, the Health Board condemned it
"WHO’S THE LADY?"
Tom Sheljord.
years ago. Still it was an oldish place (it
had touched the half-century), and it had
some interesting theatrical memories. Wes-
ton and Hussey’s Minstrels made melody
within its walls, years ago, with Harry
Kelly and Charley Holly in the troupe.
(Weston first appeared in Australia as the
“Wizard Oil Prince.”) Harry Rickards and
Lizzie Watson made their Vic. debuts at
St. George’s Hall. When the Royal was
burned (February, 1872), Coppin’s com-
pany acted in this hall, with Lena Carey,
Hattie Shepparde, Ireland, Appleton, etc.,
especially noticeable in Robertson’s
comedies of “School,” “M.P.,” and
“Society.” Emerson’s Minstrels followed,
with Billy Emerson, Sutton, Scott, etc. Sut-
ton lost an arm shooting in Australia, even
as tenor Sherwin lost a hand, tenor Beau-
mont an eye and a half, and magician Dante
a life. (This has nothing to do with the
ruined hall, but is flung in on general
principles.) Emerson brought a second
company to St. George’s Hall, including
Cogill Brothers, Walsh and King, Stanley
and Pixley, and Dan Tracey. Another com-
pany which appeared there was Edwin Kelly
and Leon's, including Kelly’s son Edwin
Lester, now with the Niblo crowd. The
so-called Only Leon, right name something
Irish, was a female impersonator. Also
Cogill Brothers were a good deal in manage-
ment at St. George’s Hall. And now, as
aforementioned, it is dust.
A Melbourne picture theatre advertises.
“ ‘The Lights of London’ —the melodrama
in four acts made famous by Bland Holt.”
The idea of the ancient drama (which Sims
wrote for Wilson Barrett) having acquii’ed
its commercial fame from Bland Holt would
look humorous even if Bland had been its
Australian exploiter. But he wasn’t. George
Rignold introduced the strangely old-
fashioned Cockney success to Australia, and
ran it on and off for many years. “Lights
o’ London,” when first produced 40 years
ago, was a revival in an improved form of an
out-of-date sort of melodrama, the sort which
had been pushed from business by the
brighter shockers of Boucicault, fi. J.
Byron, Watts Phillips, and others. More-
over, the large scenical “Drury Lane drama”
had been invented by Augustus Harris, and
so a simple story of “low life” interest came
as a novelty. Bland Holt was making money
with the gaudy “World” (by Gus Harris
and his collaborators) what time George
Rignold was doing likewise as the poor but
honest hero of “The Lights.”
Re the prohibition of a performance of
“Liberty Hall” which Jo Smith had
promised at St. Kilda (Vic.) on behalf of
the Patriotic Fund, it is explained by J. A.
Miller that the British Authors’ Association
had nothing to do with the matter. He, as
the representative of French and Co. in
Australia, has power of attorney to protect
the copyrights of many English dramatic
authors, some of whom are more in need of
"WHO’S THE LADY?"
The Minister of Justice (Henry J. Ford).
a “fiver” or £l, as the case may be, than
the blessed charity for which the “charity
performance” of a stolen play is about to
take place. It is always for a charity that
the vainglorious amateurs are acting, and
they, with few exceptions, dodge the authors’
fees by keeping their piracy quiet, or
changing the name of the play. Says J. A.
Miller: “The tricks of amateur theatrical
folk are scandalous, and I am tired of chas-
ing infringers of copyright. Therefore I
took drastic measures. Mr. Smith himself
has written and copyrighted some plays, I
believe, and should know the law. If he
did not there were others associated with
him who undoubtedly did. By the way,
Mr, Smith’s offer to pay the royalty on
a performance of “Liberty Hall” was not
‘unavailing.’ I accepted it. But no business
resulted.”
Reynolds Denniston’s scheme (“Country
Amusements Ltd.”), of giving the provinces
of N. S. Wales a chance to see metropolitan
theatrical successes, has so rapidly and
successfully matured that the co., headed
by Florence Young, Claude Bantocli and
Reginald Roberts, will leave Sydney on Mon-
day. It makes its debut at Muswellbrook
on Tuesday night, Tamworth and northern
towns to follow, thence south and west.
Advance bookings have satisfied the man-
agement that success will march with the
enterprise.
“Harrison O.”: Never since I became
afflicted with the malady of theatre-going
have I seen brainless virtue so transparently
swindled as in “The Fighting Squadron,”
now at Melbourne King’s. A gallant young
naval officer, charged with the delivery of
important despatches to a senior whom he
has never met, is intercepted by the villain,
in unblemished evening dress, who informs
him (the the sea) that he (the
villain) is the naval cockalorum for whom
the precious papahs are intended. For a
while the brave lad shows glimmerings of
incipient perspicacity by doubting the gent.’s
assurance, but finally hands over the docu-
ments. I hate to think of a bulldog being
duped by a foreign devil six nights a week,
so would fain remind the King’s hero that
British naval officers must either shave
dean or wear a beard; whereas the bloke
who nightly passes himself off as one of the
breed sports a moustache that was obvi-
ously made in Germany or thereabouts.
“Montague Brainburster”: I don’t know,
but I’m tipping that the innumerable sing-
ing teachers and the gentlemen who take
pupils in barnstorming will hold out, in this
year of retrenchment, almost as long as the
man who sells or makes food and clothes.
The place is full of unsuspected Melbas and
intending Julius Knights, and they would
sooner go without boots than miss their les-
sons. Unhappily, these small sacrifices are
never made in the holy cause of plumbing or
cooking. No young man ever burns to be
the best gasfitter on earth, and no young
woman dreams of the time when she will
be able to produce a world-beating pie. I
suppose the reason is that a brilliant bit of
gasfitting or pie-building never wins thun-
ders of applause from a fashionably-dressed
audience with feathers in its hair. So,
buoyed up with hopes of the' feathered audi-
ence, they go on taking lessons in the art in
which they will never excel, to the great com-
fort of the impressive liasbeen who teaches
something useless six floors up.
“ WHO'S
THE
LADY?"
In the audi-
ence. The
sultry little
joke pleases
the young
’tats.
“Nemo”: The R.C. Church is the first of
the sects to officially take the stage to the
bosom of its cassock. In London it has
established a Catholic Stage Guild, and a
general meeting of the body was held _a few
weeks ago at the Vaudeville Theatre in the
Strand. The chair was taken by Viscount
Fielding, and amongst those present was
Monsignor Benson, son of the Archbishop of
Canterbury, who joined the R.C. priesthood
some years ago. The Guild has 582 profes-
sional members and 230 associates. And,
listen to this! It was announced at the
meeting that 550 priests and 67 convents of
nuns were helping the Guild; 204 masses
were celebrated annually for the- welfare of
members living and dead, and 64 priests
had promised to say mass for the soul of
any member who died. On the last dav of
July the annual - “Actors’ Mass” was cele-
brated at the Church of Corpus Christi,
Maiden Lane. Tittell-tattle Brune was at
the meeting and “gave an account of the
possibilities for the Guild in the Antipodes,
where Catholicism was on good terms with
ordinary life.”
“Chasuble”: —
Judging by the Melbourne Archdiocese, even the
attempts to comply with the ex-Pope’s order regarding
sacred music are pretty well extinct. Refer to the
order. It prescribed that, within a reasonable time
(an unlucky proviso) all church music must revert
to the old-fashioned Gregorian, of the Palestrina
school. The Pope utterly condemned the fashion-
able masses of such as Mozart, Beethoven, Haydn,
Weber, Cherubini, Gounod, Guilmant, and the like-
They were to go holus bolus. Further, all women
were to leave the choirs, and be replaced with boys.
Also, the choir must be removed from the back of
the church, and placed in the sanctuary, near the
altar. Consider that this appalling reform was to
apply to all the churches of Italy, France, Germany,
America and every other part of the globe. The
good, simple Pope had only Italian experience. The
fires of his vengeful wrath were banked up by nine
years in Venice. Italian churches have been simply
outrageous. You might hear “Traviata” on Satur-
day night, and hear its music again in the Sunday
mass. The only churches in the Melbourne Arch-
diocese which even tried to carry out the Papal order
towards its full interpretation were those of the
Jesuits, such as St. Ignatius’s, Richmond, and the Im-
maculate Conception, Hawthorn. Both of these broke
down at it. Conductor Levy’s splendid choir at the
Hawthorn church was disbanded. He re-created
the choir at the West Melbourne St. Mary’s Star of
the Sea, now Coadjutor Mannix’s parish. I believe
that, under the vigorous insistence of the Adelaide
Archbishop, a little more progress towards the Papal
rescript was made there than in Melbourne.
“Bill Bowang”: Travelling theatrical
companies do not always carry scenery with
them when staging Australian plays in coun-
try towns. Remember some people
who travelled N. Queensland about six
years ago. _ They were featuring “The
Kelly Gang,” and their luggage mainly
consisted of clothing, paper cuttings
and unpaid bills. Upon their arrival
in a town the male members of the show
assaulted the adjacent bush with borrowed
axes, and, returning to the hall with much
foliage, proceeded to fix up a setting on the
stage. Completed it presented a verv real-
istic bush scene. When the curtain feil after
each act the vegetation was arranged anew
and perhaps a two-rail fence added. One
night a full-grown blackbutt or something
toppled over and almost exterminated the
pianist. He was the only decent player in
the piece.
(Continued on paqe 28.)
There is nothing so fierce as a draper
turned soldier, except a draper who is saying
good-bye to soldiers while preparing to stay
at home himself. Six employees of a Syd-
ney fluffery volunteered the other day, and
their mates presented them with' wristlet
watches. One potentate, addressing the six.
hoped that every time the volunteers’
watches ticked they would bowl over a
German.” This would represent 360 dead
a minute ’ or 21,600 an hour, or
1,425,600 a day. This represents a terrible
loss of Germans, and no enemy could bear
it long. The best idea would be to send 12
drapers and finish the war between daybreak
and lunchtime.
RAGTIME IN THE RAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As wet trams go roaring past,
Silence falls again,
And I hear drenched Germans blast
Ragtime .in the rain ;
Cold their feet and noses too,
Though the jig is gay ;
But where is that lost revue
Whose best air they play?
Actors come and actors go,
Shows slide down to smash.
Hear those humble exiles blow
For our smaller cash!
But the heartless rain comes down
On the pavement’s verge;
Once it tickled half the town,
Now it seems a dirge.
Where are ail the beauties who
Jigged to that wild air ?
Collingwood and Waterloo
Claim their proper share.
Out of feathers, pearls and beer,
Safe at home again,
Does it make them swear to hear
Ragtime in the rain?
War is scorching all the shows,
And the showman’s hand
Shakes when he adds what he owes.
(Oh, that blanky band !
Let’s forget the busted show!
Stop that d —d refrain!
Who would pay wet fools to blow
Ruin in the rain?)
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


Use a CLEMAK Every Morning
THE FINEST SAFETY RAZOR. Complete Combination Set,
10/6
For a beautifully clean and easy shave every morning
there is no finer piece of shaving apparatus thstn the
Clemak. It can be used on the strongest beard.
There is nothing to get out of order, and it is cleaned
in a second. The complete combination set at 10/6
comprises Triple Silver-Plated Razor, Stropping
Machine with Velvet Hide Strop, Clemak frame and
12 selected blades packed in handsome leather case.
N.B.—We put a keen edge on dull safety-razor blades
of any make at Is. per dozen.
Carriage Paid Throughout Australia.
DAVID JONES, Ltd.,
Opp. G.P.O. — SYDNEY.
This Light and Coot
English - made QjQ
Straw Boater (Post Free.)
The splendid quality of the Straw-and the fine plait
in this ideal hot-weather hat will appeal to men who
want a smartly designed, fashionable, light, cool and
airy Boater at an exceptionally low price.
We are offering this high-grade English-made hat
at the low price of 5/6, post free, in order to make
our values better known to country customers. We
refund money if you are dissatisfied.
The brims may be had in 2J, 2J, 2§ widths. It is
called “The St. Andrew’s.”
Write for beautiful Men's Catalogue, Post Free.
SGliSg
&
m
t •
“The Best
Address
for
Men’s Dress.”
CHAS. LANE & CO.
PUT.
tm
Corner
Flinders Lane and
Elizabeth streets,
MELBOURNE.
_
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
Those impatient critics who are wonder-
ing why Admiral Patey doesn’t run down
the Scharnhorst, Gneisenau and other Ger-
man cruisers who are wandering round the
islands in the Pacific, and blow them
out of the water, should remember the
case of the Perthshire. This big cargo
steamer broke down between Sydney and
Wellington (M.L.) some years ago. A
small fleet went in search of her, and though
she blazed the trail with rockets, flares and
bltie lights, it was six weeks before she was
found. That was the experience in the
case of a big, slow-drifting vessel, in com-
paratively narrow limits, calling tenders for
discovery. Patey’s job isn’t so easy. The
wide and meandering Pacific is open to the
speedy German cruisers, and at latest in-
formation they had not hung up any
notices of their whereabouts. Their
reticence on that subject was like to Jonah
when he was asked for the address of the
whale he eloped with.
There are a lot of live Socialists in Ger-
many, but they don’t appear to have much
influence on the course of events. They
may yet rise and demand a national sober-
ing-up; but, to date, their worst effort con-
sists in pasting Berlin by night with
placards: “We want peace. Down with
the Kaiser!” It seems pathetically futile. —
almost as futile as the familiar chalked in-
scription on the suburban wall: “Jack Jones
is a Skite.” It never hurts Jack Jones
as much as a good punch on the nose would.
But there is always the lingering hope that
the hand that wrote the insult will deliver
the blow and so effect much-needed reform.
From “F.C.”: There is none so mean
nowadays as not to have a lethal weapon of
some sort. I see that in Sydney last week
a couple of ladies, noticing a street row
raging, drew their revolvers and used them
in the most matter-of-fact way. An ex-
employee at a Carlton (Vic.) hotel called
to see his late employer, a widow, and, after
a brief argument, shot her in the arm,
being, as the dailies naively put it, “in love
with her.” Then lie chased her upstairs,
and, mistaking a barmaid in somewhat
similar attire for her, straightway shot the
latter dead. After that he hastily assisted
himself across the border after the barmaid.
Another disappointed amorist came across
his unwilling sweetheart at Footscray, took
out a sheath knife, and “brandished it to
frighten her” —presumably into loving him.
She shrieked and gesticulated, and in the
confusion the knife hurt her, and now her
admirer awaits his trial before a criminal
jury. And then there was Antonio Soro—
Antonio, the quaint Ball" , ’at novelist, who
appeared in Fremantle (W.A.) a couple of
years ago, with the news that he had flown
from Lake Wendouree, and was found later
to have come by the usual old boat. Antonio
lias surged into the limelight once more by
disagreeing with a young lady who declined to
be interested in his protestations of affection,
and then ineffectually essaying to exter-
minate himself. Take it all round, there
seems to be good reason for the sudden
increase in the prices of firearms. The
demand for them is obviously something
tremendous. #
Last Friday, when the boys for the front
were marching through Melbourne, there
was a lot of muttered grumbling at the fact
that two or three well-defined Germans had
been accepted as officers with the contin-
gent. The young soldiers complain of the
damfoolislincss of admitting a dubious
element into a life-or-death speculation, and
the fathers of the lads share their misgiv-
ings. Perhaps by the time the troops get
to camp on the other side the British mili-
tary authorities will have come at last to
the conclusion that suspicion is the better
part of prudence in the game of war, and
will decide to dispense with people who have
a tendency to the name of Schmidt. .Tonesco
from Roumania might be a safer invest-
ment. t
Australia’s noblest patriot has come out
of his cave and done his Whack. Ho is
one William Butters, described in his mani-
festo to the nation as “His Majesty’s Aus-
tralian Author and Toet: Vice-regal Toot
of Australia.” Further :
The only holder of the congratulations and thanks
of the highest dignitaries on the Globe’s five con-
tinents and of the greatest list of honors of any living
writer.
The author hereby gives all his published works to
the relief of widows and orphans of Great Britain,
who wear black through the Standard’s unfurling, and
appeals to united Australia to purchase the same -at
all booksellers and stationers throughout the Com-
monwealth. Published by the authority of his
Majesty’s Crown Law Officers. Supplied to all _ com-
mittees for war relief at net cost, and authority is
given to any section of the Empire to publish and
sell for their own funds.
Holder of the thanks of his Majesty, King George,
the Royal Family, Earl Kitchener, the Allies and the
British Empire and Admiralty.
The Author’s photo., book and personal letter for-
warded to all donors of £1 or equal value and a
list of the loyal helpers will be sent direct to the
Throne.
William Butters, your band! God bless
you !
THE MOUSTACHE THAT MADE HISTOR'Y
As it was and as it is.
THE PATRIOTS.
BAND CONDUCTOR: “E n, zwei, drie" —
BAND (mournfully): "Rule, Britannia"-
“The Oldest Inhabitant” (without a
pub) :
A Hunter-street (Sychiey) site, near Macquane-
street (62ft., with various depths), was purchased
recently by the Theosopliical Society for £10,250.
(This pans out about £lO5 a foot, a good price for
the locality.) The society will erect upon it its
Australian headquarters. The land originally belonged
to John Thomas Campbell, who was resident at the
Cape of Good Hope when Lachlan Macquarie called
in there on his way to New South Wales, in 1809.
The Cape Governor, Caledon, introduced Campbell to
Macquarie as an active young gentleman who wanted
work and remuneration, and Macquarie took him on
as private secretary. Later, he held other offices.
He died in 1830. Campbell built a fine house, for
the time, on the Hunter-street corner, which, after
his death, was occupied for some years by Roger
Therry. J. H. Plunkett and Dr. .1. C. Cox also
lived there.
However great a fool William of Gei-
many may be, there is some excuse for his
tremendous opinion of his chances. An
article entitled “Our Dwindling Army ’ by
the aged Field-Marshal Roberts, in the
August Nineteenth Century, rumbles
sadly this way :
Engrossed as our people are -in the pre-
sent political crisis, it is difficult -to get
them to pay heed to the regular army... .
....Writing 30 years ago in the Nineteenth Cen-
tury, 1 said, with reference to the short system then
recently adopted: “The fact is, we have borrowed
the German reserve system in shadow, not in sub-
stance, and we can never possibly obtain, on the lines
which we have adopted, a reserve of men of service-
able ages large enough to be really valuable.” These
words, written in ISB2, were borne out by my experi-
ence some 18 years later, for though the Cardwell
system gave us many good reservists, yet we had not
a reserve of trained men sufficient even for a struggle
against a population of Dutch farmers who never
were able to put into the field more than 100,000
males of all ages.
As if that were not sufficient encouragement,
a few . pages further on is a gloomy and
fatalistic slhb on “The Irish Danger," by
Sir West Ridgeway. The overture: —
The Conference which met for the purpose of
averting Civil War —or, rather, rebellion, which will
probably develop into Civil War —has met and failed.
Rebellion in Ulster will not only destroy the in-
dustries and prosperity of Belfast, but will make
bloodshed certain, the destruction of the army pro-
bable, and the disruption of the Empire more than
possible.
About five minutes after he had read that
and a bale of other stuff to the’ 1 same effect,
the Fool at Berlin rose up and declared
war. And so widespread and complete was
his unpopularity that, all the small com-
plaints were immediately cured, and he in-
herited in his own person the accumulated
rage of the whole earth. So it would seem
, that the right fool at the right time puts to
' :onfusion a drayload of wise men buzzing
in thoughtful periodicals. If the Fool gets
out of the mix-up alive, he is certain to roar
that the whole thing was a dirty plot and
a put-up job, and that he alone played the
part of a gentleman. Then, presumably, he
will pin the Order of the Blazing . Ass on
his own breast and go up the pole like a
rocket.
N.S.W. Divorce Justice Gordon was
lately confronted with an unusual case.
Some years ago a man obtained a divorce
from his wife, who thereupon married the
co-respondent. The case before Gordon
was a suit by the second husband for
release from the woman, the co-re. on this
occasion being the original, or No. 1,
husband. His Honor was not able to see
that husband No. 2 had proved his case
against husband No. 1. Still be admitted
that affairs were mixed.
POPPING INTO PEWS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bathurst, Friday.—At the Anglican Synod con-
siderable discussion took place regarding the desira-
bility of free sittings in church. The .11 ev. E. C.
Kemp, Principal of the Bush Brotherhood, expressed
the hope that in the near future ail sittings would
be free.
Mr. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C., opposed the principle,
and said that a great deal of hardship and annoyance
would result if persons with an “edge” on people
made a point of popping into the pews at every
service.
Tite Curate (singing in the rectory garden) :
My life would he quite pleasant, for my views are
orthodox,
And I’m fond of tea and tennis and opposed to fancy
socks;
But in spite of minor virtues and my very proper
views,
I am troubled by this popping-^
Vulgar popping into pews.
Chorus:
Popping into pews 1 Popping into pews!
I see them popping here and there in hats of many
hues.
Though they’re ’neath the cross and steeple,
People with an edge on people
Keep my poor heart' palpitating with their popping
into pews.
Though all Christians should be decent, this low
practice they won’t stop ;
Ev’rv time I give a hymn out I see someone do a
pop;
And it agitates me so much that my proper place 1
lose.
I am quite upset by popping—
Shameless popping into pews.
Chorus:
Popping into pews ! Popping into pews !
They hop about like rabbits only fit for pies and
stews!
It’s a scandal and a schism,
And it looks like Socialism.
If one goes in for free sittings, it means popping into
pews.
I do like a congregation, but I haven’t any doubt
That the one who goes pew-popping should at once
be bundled out;
For it bothers one and dazzles, and it clashes with
my views
To see Christians during service slyly popping into
pews.
Chorus:
Popping into pews! Popping into pews!
Trying to annex the hole that other people use.
Why should Christians, true and loving,
Tolerate this er—“duck-shovi ng” ?
How disgraceful! How degrading is this popping
into pews!
N.S.V.
KODAK.


THE LADY OF FASHION
will be charmed and delighted
with the Refined Beauty of the
M O S Q I EL
TWIN-COLOR
MOTOR RUG
Made in colorings to match
the cars. Unique in appear-
ance and cosy warmth.
Sold at all the
Best Shops.
[2
We invite you to buy a box of “ De
Reszke ” Cigarettes and compare them
with any brand you please. Their quality
will appeal to you.
§25
Jbmccea,
TOUCHES
THE
SPOT
THE PIONEER OF SKIN CURES
No household should be without it.
Fop ECZEMA, PILES, SCALDS, BURNS,
CUTS, BRUISES, SORES, and all Skin
Complaints.
For Free Sample enclose Two Penny Stamps.
LYALL WILLIS & CO.,
Sole IVhol'salc Agents,
127, York Street, Sydney.
s
HOT-WEATHER COMFORT
Peapes’ Lace=Cotton Underwear.
The coming hot weather will cause you much less discomfort if you
buy light, underwear. The Lace-cotton Shirts and Trunk Drawers,
illustrated, are ideal for hot-day wear. Although very light and open
in texture they are quite durable.
They are reinforced on the inner parts of the legs. This is a popular
line which we have featured for years.
We can strongly recommend it.
Shirts 34 to 44; Pants 32 to 44
I XT
/ VJ
Please state chest and waist measurement when ordering.
Patterns and Catalogue on request.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
Men's Outfitters,
309 &t 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
[lf the signwriting foolishness is still in force the
writer—B. J. H. Owen- —may be found at 256 Barklv-
street, St. Kilda, Victoria, three minutes’ walk from
the Village Belle Hotel.]
* * * *
There was one army reservist in Aus-
tralia who was in dead earnest about getting
into harness again. He was well-sinking
out in the very middle of Australia when
war was declared, but he rode 250 miles on a
jolting camel into Oodnadatta, and then had
a 668-miles journey to get td the camp at
Adelaide.
* * * *
The British town-planning experts, having
now reached S.A., have flattered the people
of its capital city by telling them that “the
example of Adelaide has, all along, been the
inspiration of town-planners all the world
over.” But the suburbs are growing up at
the will of the land agent and the specula-
tive _ builder; and, although their streets are
straight and fairly wide, smd every house
has its bit of garden, it is nobody’s business
to see that any open spaces are left. Thus,
in time, with houses covering the plain
from hills to sea, the suburbs may easily be
less well off than the city—by the foresight
and determination of Light—must always
remain. Also, there is not a sign of a
railway anywhere on the east of the city,
and to buy back the land for one (or several)
lines, when they are wanted, is going to be
an expensive job if not looked at in advance.
THE COMPLETE COMPLIMENT.
“You know, I'm sure we've met before.”
“Impossible! If we had I'd either be married
to you, divorced from you, or dead of a
broken heart.”
EUGENICS.
LOOM, ORATOR : “But, ladies and gentlemen, apart from this fascinating subject, I don't
believe in sparing the rod and spoiling the child. Why, if it ’ adn't been for my
strict bringing up I might ' ave grown up as big a bounder as any of you."
The S.A. Supreme Court has been taking
a lot of trouble over the unusual spectacle
of a perjury trial for evidence given in a
divorce suit. The bad principle that on
this one subject a man (or woman) can
falsely swear I Didn’t without penalty is
generally accepted; in fact, one S.A. judge
in the past openly made the odd statement
—odd for a judge—that a man-of-honor’s
obligation to a lady outranks his obligation
to be truthful. In the present case, how-
ever, what accused had sworn was not I
Didn’t, but He Did, and that was thought
to make a difference. On the other hand,
it is not clear that the statement was false.
Three juries in succession have said that
they can’t make up their minds about it.
Meanwhile the matter is hung up. So is the
divorce case. It is an unusual tangle.
* * * *
A Sydney man discovered a new comet
on a recent night. At first it was thought
to be a new loan, but the beastly thing was
only a comet.
“Solomon Pork”: A great
deal of the strength of the im-
ported article against the
locally-manufactured is due to
the failure on the part of the
local manufacturer to boost his
goods, into the line of vision.
I delivered an ultimatum the
other day to my
women people. I
discovered that the
mustard I ate and
the cocoa I drank
were the products of
England and Hol-
land. “No more of
this,” I roared. “Get
local cocoa and mus-
tard.” Next day I
was assured that it
couldn’t be done —-
there was none made
in Australia. Well,
I felt certain that
mustard was one of
the few odd lines
that Australia pro-
duces, but I hadn’t
any idea concerning
cocoa. Anyhow I
laid a new hat to a
tie that I could get
both. Eventually I
did, so I have to buy
myself a new collar-
ribbon. Did anybody
ever see an Austra-
lian cocoa advt. ?
Incidentally the local
goods are cheaper
than the foreign,
and, to my taste, have more relish.
“Hamer”: A mystery which is likely to
remain unsolved was considered by Sydney’s
City Coroner the other day, and passed out
with an open verdict. Back in July a
young man with a pale face and a hat that
was pulled well down over his eyes, hired a
skiff from a boat proprietor at Woolloo-
mooloo Bay, and failed to return. Six
weeks later the skiff was found bottom up
in Camp Cove, Watson’s Bay; and lashed
to the thwarts was the body of an unknown
man, shot through the top of the head. The
plug of the boat had been pulled out, and
there, were bags in it containing sand and
sandstone. The police were unable to iden-
tify the man, and the boat proprietor was
unable to say whether he was the same who
had hired the boat. The evidence showed
that it was possible for defunct to have
bound himself in the position in which he
was found, and to have shot himself; but
it was impossible to say that this had been
done. So everything remains unexplained.
The boat proprietor has his skiff back, but
it is none the better for its adventures, and
it will take a long time to dry, and every-
body who hires it will think he sees a ghost
sitting in the stern —a ghost with its hat
pulled down over its eyes.
* » * *
The disaster that recently hit the Huntly
CM.L.) coal-mine, resulting in about 40
workers losing their lives, brings before the
general public again the dangers run by
those who go down into the bowels of the
earth in search of fuel. The Huntly mine
was considered to be the safest in Maori-
land. As a matter of fact, there was sup-
posed to be no risk, and on several occa-
sions Government inspectors certified that
the mine was quite free from explosive
gases. So assured were the workers of the
safety of the place that naked acetylene
lights were used. And then the natural
result of too much confidence came along.
Even a tank of water or a caterpillar will
blow up if you treat it with excessive con-
fidence.
* * * *
The Belgian Commission that went to
President Woodrow Wilson, of the United
States, must now regret having wasted
time and money on the journey. The Pre-
sident was politeful and" considerate. He
hoped that the Deity would take strong
action. But he did not promise to do his
best to give material aid. He didn’t even
say anything about a loan at a moderate
rate of interest. The U.S.A. does not want
to irritate Germany. Yankees have a lot of
outstanding accounts in Germany for food-
stuffs and agricultural produce. Also, there
is a large and fairly well-organised German
vote in the U.S.A. And the Yankee never
allows sentiment to interfere with business
Yet there are people in Australia who be-
lieve that if this country should ever be
invaded the United States would promptly
intervene.
Fitchett, of the Melbourne Methodist
Ladies’ College, has devised a lovely scheme
for advertising his show per medium of the
Patriotic Fund. It seems that business
firms which enjoy Fitchett’s patronage in
the matter of goods for schooling purposes,
have been always expected to give some-
thing of a quid pro quo in the form of
prizes for the dear young ladies at the
“annual distribution.” The college prin-
cipal, in short, “gives” prizes which have
been exacted, in consideration of his cus-
tom, from the business firms he deals with.
This, presumably, is a general rule of
seminaries. The prizes awarded to victorious
pupils are obtained from merchants on the
Christmas-box principle, like the ginger
which the Chow vegetable vendor gives to
the boarding-house missee. This year Fit-
chett’s young lady scholars have “agreed,”
to do without prizes, and Fitchett sent a
typewritten letter to the houses that ordi-
narily donate the goods :
Dear Sirs, —As you probably know, our girls have
agreed to give the money value of their prizes this
year to the Patriotic Fund. Will you please let me
know the money value of the prizes you kindly give,
and agree to credit the College with that amount in
your next current account ? I can then add that
sum to the amount l send in to the Patriotic Fund.
One must abandon the belief that the Patri-
otic Fund is composed of contributions only.
It includes prize-money.
* * * *
John Bull, as certain daily papers depict
him these days, should be called John
Gamp. He is an insult. A very rare
specimen of this superstition appeared in
the Sydney Telegraph of 24/9/’l4. He
was fat, middle-aged, bare and large
about the face, bent and short and tottery
in the legs, and apparently unarmed. He
was appealing with a fatuous expression on
his bacon-fed countenance to an Italian
soldier to join in the war, and saying:
“Trent and Trieste lie beyond the wall.
Aren’t they worth while?” The Italian
was a younger man with a sword, and with
legs that didn’t totter. He looked all
muscle. There was an aspect of stern reso-
lution on him, instead of a fatuous smile.
Anyone would take him for Pompey or
Julius Caesar in modern costume rather
than Sarah Gamp in male attire. His tidy
moustache and his feathered hat looked a
vast amount better than the British
person’s clean shave and slovenly cap. The
British naval man isn’t the shambling
character with a bingy who appears in the
daily press, and that wandering, middle-
aged circumstance of great stomach should
be set down as high treason.
PRACTICAL MAN.
WIFE: "‘Do you love me, Harry?"
HUBBY: “ Dearly .”
WIFE : "Would you die for vie?”
HUBBY : "No, dearest; mine is an undying
love.”
Victoria’s Assembly lately agreed to a
couple of clauses in the Amending Local
Government Bill empowering municipal
councils to fix minimum width, depth and
area for building allotments, and also to fix
the size of rooms. Of course, there is little
fear of any of the existing councils exer-
cising such powers, but Labor promises
shortly to capture most of the metropolitan
councils, and when it does so things may
be different. The only pity is that they
can’t be different all at once.
“F.Y.T.”: The recently-finished trial of
Mrs. Caillaux for shooting the editor of
Paris Figaro produced a French “bull”
fitted to stand alongside the best products
of Erin. The Public Prosecutor, in en-
deavoring to explain away some libellous
papers which were found in the slain
editor’s pockets, alleged that they were
“only copies of documents which do not and
never did exist.” Even a French jury
couldn’t swallow that; and the prisoner was
given the key of the street.
THE SPOILERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A portion of yesterday’s sitting of the annual
convention of the People’s party was devoted to dis-
cussing the causes that conduced to the defeat of the
Liberals. Opinion was expressed that the Labor
party had no genuine claim to the word “labor.” Mr.
T. Baker submitted a motion “That the self-styled
‘Labor’ party be in future always referred to as the
Socialist party.” Mr. R. McCarthy said that the
Liberals were the genuine Labor party.
—Melbourne daily.
In dismal conference they met,
Most anxious to decide
Why, though to win it they were fain,
The nation’s trust they could not gain.
“It’s most absurd,” one cried,
“We are the People’s party, yet
The people seem to have us ‘set’!
“To uppercut this Labor crowd
We’ve done our level best.
When of a local fleet they spoke
Our laughter almost made us choke,
It seemed a gorgeous jest;
But when we found it pop-u-lar,
We claimed it with a wild ‘Hurrah’!
“Once of ‘Conscription’ we were wont
In accents shocked to cry,
Until, in time, our face to save,
Our blessing to the scheme we gave.
When have we ceased to try
In ev’ry way to emulate
The party we’re supposed to hate?
“Their crackbrained Socialistic fads
We’ve stolen one by one;
There’s little now to rob, and we
Are left without a policy,
So something must be done!”
Then promptly a suggestion came:
“Let’s burgle now the blighters’ name.”
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


•l
Tije. LaJ?oK Govern men*
V»bV.Wi» ifie-
UfofTof
Si*Qzr', f
f7r s f fk-friof: -
*l5 little Willie ?
Second fafriot (in Wc«)'-
" |f- if lca,Ks out"!
fm
Ifie "boy's B°^,
hie^lc^y
A
T^aiJor
V C f
( '7r°s r .
11/e
o\
The Prof.-fee W-ftafyott We m s<>*w
measure* }>&id 'for Sugby l>u'f”’if'
you were "truly loyaj you would berroit^ me i
1o m&Ke enormous front's by Sc If. r/o'nTa.'t' V
'for "Hie. Succor of "life
/v\oK>er
The defeat in Victoria tvas a* largely
due to the Women’s League as anything
else. —President Brookes People’e Lib-
eral League.
He would repeat his statement that
the Women's National was the
most powerful political force in Aus-
tralia to-day. (Interruption, and some
dissent.) —Willie Watt, j jtma
V T V
v/
J_EACL>EL
here lay
MURRAY
WATT l
Peacock (
AND
rested
The State Ministry Is. tree to traftt-
i r* ia allowing til© list Ol UH
flashed Bills to mount up on the notice
S>er of the legislative
lit is below the average, but it is*eacn
ing a teepee table length.—Age.
Roll
V/oiT) ajn/e Doffonr, of- fT
of Course.
Willie WarH" *f>ho/Js Ir»s
.
?nnrjc lA'rt\st&r~fls\ieY s\y s i^a^ -
l|is Government" is "to
WorK \fawy
F?es «mdj>ly will
T?asy ©*>*■!>»« 0 5ur
VICTORIAN EVENTS.
[Perpetrated by ALF. VINCENT. Address 369 Collins-street, Melbourne.]


€4
W
KSSSmBsBi
QUALITY STOCKINGS
FOR LADIES. Also Socks
and Stockings for Children and Men.
Wa
%
|Aa4B
The most fashionable
effects from the plainest
to the dressiest styles.
To be correctly dressed and accounted right
up to the fashion, ladies must carefully study
their stocking-wear. Many expensive costumes
otherwise of generally pleasing effect are
marred by a jarring note of colour and style
of stocking.
One or other of the multitudinous styles and
shades in the Jason langes, correctly solves
every colour problem. All Jason colours are
fast dyed. Every stocking and sock is work-
perfect and faultlessly in the mode, whether
dressy or plain. And accompanying every pair
is that lovely silky Jason finish, soothing and
soft to the most delicate skin.
Every pair guaranteed unsh'inkablc.
Replaced if found otherwise.
Ask your dealer for Jason and
insist on having them. See the
tab on each pair.
In case of 4'ffioulty come out wi liout and write to
us. we will seb you are supplied.
The Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, Eng,
Sydney,
J/th December. 189-'i.
The difference, 4.17, being carbonic acid driven
off on ignition.
This water contains more lithia than any of
the European Spa Waters, except that from the
Murquelle, at Baden Baden, which contains lithia
as chloride, and it is also much richer in car-
bonate of sodium, though Birresborn, in Prussia,
and Bilin, in Bohemia, approach it.
Thi9 water would be used as an antacid and
diuretic, the latter effect being due to the lithia.
I remain, yours truly,
WILL A. DIXON, F.i.c., f.c.s.
We now give an explanation of the
virtues of some of the salts which the
water holds in solution:—
Bicarbonate of Lithia. —An alka-
line which has solvent powers on Uric
Acid, forming with it a soluble salt, thus
destroying concretions. Purifies the
blood through the kidneys.
Carbonate of Sodium. —For gouty
and uric acid diathesis. Assists the
action of the biliary organs, checks food
fermentation.
Chloride of Sodium. —A gentle stimu-
lant to the liver and secretions. In-
creases the action of the skin, promoting
perspiration.
In conclusion, we briefly submit that the con-
sumption of lleudon Spa gives health and com-
fort to all who use it. Indigestion is instantly
removed, restlessness gives way to a calm feeling'
of tranquillity, a refreshing sleep is often in-
duced, feverish thirst is allayed at once, and
when the water is taken with milk in the morn-
ing, a marked improvement in liealth will follow.
It mu6t be remembered that no water hitherto
discovered is so retentive of carbonic acid gas,
which makes its persistent and sparkling efferves-
cence more agreeable to the palate, and also
more grateful to thp stomach.
A BORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Alrich”: Cane beetles are . not so cursed
by the sugar grower in the Cairns-Mulgrave district
as the cane grub. It is a fat, dirty-white worm that
destroys the roots of the plant. Enormous loss has
been caused by its depredations, An American
entomologist, engaged by the Bananaland Govern-
ment. recently spent two years studying the grub,
but arrived at no finality with regard to its exter-
mination. The Farmers’ Association pays Dd. per
lb. for the subterranean beast, which is found when
the soil is turned up for planting, and an active boy
following the plough can make as much as £1 a
day in some districts. In other districts a 1 somnolent
boy makes less.
AN ADVANTAGE.
1ST SAINT (to 2nd ditto): “Would yer mind
bending lower while I get a light."
“Wyangarie”: Australians as a rule are
quite satisfied that California and other places have
in the big timber line trees that admit of no com-
parison. Yet along our eastern coast there arc sap-
lings that are quite respectable in circumference. A
few examples: Two blackbutts, Coff’s Harbor, one
66ft. girth, the other 71ft. Also, a tree in the
Atherton scrub through which the ordinary traffic
road is cut. In the same district a cedar tree was
cut containing 30,000 super feet of timber, while
another (standing) is estimated at 40,000 super feet.
This last tree would be worth as its stands about
£4OO.
“Do Oriel”: Few people know the
enormous size of the shells on the Barrier Reef (Q.).
Take the white and yellow clam-shell, for instance
(the hinge of which the Papuan natives use for nose
bones and other facial decorations). It reaches a
remarkable size. Saw a pair of clam-shells made into
panels in the entrance to Shepherd’s store, Maekay
(Q.). They weighed nearly half a ton each. These
belong to the clams that eat armies.
“H. 1.”: “Lagani-Namo’s” entry of
turtles for the egg-laying competition recalls a
minor tragedy which occurred in Brisbane long, long-
ago. Billy Blazes was a retired, pugilist who kept
a popular Queen-street pub, and his specialty was a
first-rate eighteenpenny lunch. He delighted, in this
connection, to have a huge turtle moored before his
pub’s main entrance, bearing the inscription:
“Turtle soup to-morrow.” On the night previous to
the execution the beast-fish was removed to a dark-
some dungeon in the back yard. Early one morning
when Billy, knife and axe and cannon in hand, opened
the door, he saw the floor covered deep in what
was apparently snow. Leaping into the dungeon he
landed with both feet on several hundred turtle
eggs. He was a large man, and his fall wrecked
most of the few thousand eggs. Then an agonised
lady turtle started to clamber over the prostrate
bloke’s body towards light and liberty. As she
weighed anything up to 4cwt., the under-dog’s feel-
ings when he was rescued, and when his horror-
stricken family and employees were scraping the
yolk off him and plucking the egg-shells from his
whiskers, called upon all his resources for expres-
sion. After that experience I don’t remember seeing
any more turtles at anchor outside the Bashers’
Arms Hotel.
* * *• *
“Fyz”: The half-caste Kanaka-Chow,
referred to by “C. 5.8.” in a reeent Bulletin as
being wanted for a murder near Maryborough (Q.),
is, or was, a mystery somewhat out of the usual
run. About two years ago he was a stockman at
Turkey Creek Station, a little cattle run situated in
some of the roughest country in Australia, and
owned by Ivessell, M.L.A. for the district (Port
Curtis). Other employees were a white stockman
named Anderson and a damosel of 16, who was
“general” in fhe station household. The manager’s
wife decided to send this girl home, some 20 miles
away, and packed her off on horseback in charge of
Anderson. The vari-caste employee shortly after-
wards rode off carrying a Winchester rifle. As fire-
arms are usually carried iu that country for shooting
scrub bulls nothing was thought of the matter.
Later, Anderson was found with a bullet through his
lungs. Just gasping, “The nigger did it,” he went
out and took the rest of his story with him. He
hadn’t time to say which nigger did it. Close by
him was his horse and the girl’s, both tied up. From
that day to this no trace has been found of the
white damosel or the Kanaka-Chow. He may have
been the criminal, or some unknown and unspecified
nigger may have killed him and the girl when he
was putting up a valiant fight in defence of the
general servant of Turkey Creek. And then the
Unspecified one may have buried them both.
* 4 * *
“Tangent” : I stiy it is a fact that masti-
cation of the kava root in making South Sea grog
is a general custom in the New Hebrides, Solomons
and Papua, anyway; also, that it is intoxicating, and
brings on a sort of paralysis of the legs that
lasts for two or three hours. The root is chewed by
the youths, and water is added to it. This is
allowed to stand for an hour or so, when it is
strained through a piece of native cloth and drank.
The pigs and piccaninnies are removed some dis-
tance away so that their noise may not disturb the
bucks in their jag. Jaggers become absolutely helpless
so far as walking or even moving their legs is con-
cerned, and a beautiful peaceful feeling comes over
them. In appearance they seem stupefied, though
actually the mind is very clear. This silly, blithery
look remains some time after they have regained the
use of their legs.
* * * «
“Gouger” : One silly ass who won’t fiddle
round with a shark any more is a certain fool white
man up North. He was pulling ’round in a very
small dinghy when he spied a shark asleep under a
ledge of rock. Very gently he pulled over, and, out
of sheer devilment, passed the sleeping beauty a
hearty kick in the ribs. What followed was mostly
foam and a mightily scared man pulling like blazes
for the cutter. Half-way there the shark caught the
dinghy an awful crack, slewing it completely around.
As the boys were hauling the trembling shark-hunter
aboard the shark arrived some more and gave the
dinghy another wallop that skidded it across the
water like driftwood. The Scavenger of the sea
always comes back. Scare a shark and he’ll return
to see what scared him. It is best to be up-
country when he returns. I was anchored in Port
Stewart some time back, when two big sharks came
nosing right up to the cutter. Seeking to do the
honors, I welcomed one big chap with a .320 revolver
bullet. He lit out in haste, but in a few minutes he
came tearing up to the stern of the cutter, thrusting
his head a foot out of the water endeavoring to find
out what hit him. I answered his inquiries
with another bullet, and he disappeared again. In
all, he arrived six times. The best thing to do with
a shark is to, first, catch him. Then welt him with
a belaying pin, to make him peaceful. Then hitch a
strong, short piece of iron wire to his tail. To the
other end_ tie an open oil-drum. Next, heave him
overboard. He revives, sinks, then comes tearing to
the surface, the water-logged oil-drum acting as a
drawback to excessive speed. He wastes some
splendid energy trying to rid himself of his anchor,
but the anchor gradually settles bottomward. The
bankrupt shark will hereabouts give yon the finest
treadwater exhibition you have ever seen. Finally,
he founders, unless some of his brethren notice that
he is in trouble, and eat him. Possibly he comes up
again in an angry mood after six weeks, the oil-drum
having worn out. What his language is like in the
interval I can’t imagine, but the spectacle of a shark-
swearing hard all Sunday down among the founda-
tions of the sea must be marvellous.
HIS RECORD RUN.
“Freddie made a remarkable record with his new car the other day."
"Did he? How many miles did he cover? And how fast was his time?"
“ Oh, I don't know about that; but my boy ran the thing all day without kill mg any-
body or breaking down once. Clever? Eh, what?"
“B.”: There is very little use iu saying
that, because under the present system the Executive
and not the Governor has the last word to say
about the hanging of a man, none but one deserving
to be executed will ever go to the drop. Sufficient
evidence exists to show that in the days when the
Governor had the last word the condemned had a
better chance than with the average Executive. Labor
in power lias been something of an exception ; but the
average Executive bows more easily to the will of
the sentencing Judge than does the average Governor.
Even Carrington, who was not a strong man, let off
one of the Mount Rennie convicts in direct contradic-
tion to the Judge’s decision. Loftus was sappy-headed
and bankrupt, and reared hens; but he reprieved
Johns once contrary to the Judge’s advice, and would
have given him a further chance on the second occa-
sion, only, as he said, the Judge taunted him with tiie
fact that had Johns been hanged for the first offence
he would not have committed the second. But for
the intervention of Governors scores of individuals
sentenced by Judges would have been executed. In
nearly all cases the Judges stood out for the extreme
penalty. In the very early times a dozen or 20 men
would be sentenced to death at one sitting, and one
Governor or another would cut the list down by six
or 10. Often there was little reason why the six or
10 should be let go while the others suffered, but it
was an assertion of the Governor’s independence. In
the correspondence which passed between Governor
Brisbane and Earl Bathurst, Secretary of State, in
1822, the sorrows of Judge Wylde, of Sydney Criminal
Court, are embalmed. That Judge wrote a formal
complaint to Earl Bathurst, stating that Brisbane
habitually allowed him short measure. “Thirteen of
my capital sentences at one court and 15 at another
he has cut down to four and five,” wept the Judge.
In the end Wylde refused to go to the Governor to
read liis notes or discuss cases, and that wrangle was
also embalmed in despatches. Executives have been
in N.S.W. more subservient to Judges and the
opinions dominant in judicial circles than have the
majority of Governors in the years when a Governor
had full right to interpose. Executives, consisting
mostly of a scratch lot of politicians ever on the
watch to catch the approval of a majority, are by
constitution and habit the worst body to whom any
moral issue, especially one of life and death, should be
submitted for final arbitrament. The conclusion is
that if capital punishment is to be retained in N.S.W.
then not the Judge, not the Executive, not the
Governor, but the jury should be empowered to order
its imposition.
“Overseer”: “Main Bearing” is romanc-
ing when he states that the South Sea Island natives
do not chew the root of the kava plant preparatory
to drinking the liquor made from it —-at least, so
far as the Fiji Isles are concerned. Mastication of
flic root has been a native custom since (lie year of
the flood in Canberra, and has ceased only recently
on account of the authorities having passed a law to
stop it for health reasons. In the olden days, when
missionary was a delicacy for the chiefs only, part
of the ceremony previous to the serving-up of the
“long pig” was the chewing and preparing of the
THE VILLAIN.
THE BOY : “ That's the actor wot ruins so
many wimmen on the stige. ”
THE GIRL : “ What a pity, 'Erbert, such a
lovely man destroys so many bright young
Hives."
kava root bj- the young men of the tribe. Tlie
women were only allowed to chew grog for the
common or garden natives. Pounded grog was
unknown. I have seen men kava-drunk for days
and unable to walk, although unaffected in the head.
The legs only are affected, and cause (he shikkered
person to plait straws and walk as straight as George
Reid's political past when he was a Yes-No.
PATTERSON’S CURSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Carcoar. —At the last meeting of the Pastures Pro-
tection Board complaints were received of the exist-
ence and spread of the noxious weed known as
“Patterson’s Curse,” in the vicinity of the iron mine,
Carcoar. It was decided to draw the attention of the
Lyndhurst Shire Council to the matter.
— N.SvJV. bnsh news item.
The curse of red war is a very large curse,
But war does not go on for ever.
The wounded man frequently marries his nurse
Because she’s so pretty and clever.
Time heals all the wounds in the heart or the
head,
And Life springs from battlefields gory.
Wheat covers the soldier who stopped too much
lead,
And his deeds live in song and in story.
But Patterson's Curse is the one that remains
AVhen war from the world has been booted,
And farmers and settlers keep racking their brains
To find, if it can be uprooted.
The farmer, despairing, may go to the war
And reap the* red curse of Man’s sowing;
But when he returns to his rustic front door,
Well, ho finds the green curse gaily growing.
The pen and the sword and the deafening gun
Are so much old steel when Life’s battle is done ;
But, voiceless and strong in its sap and its seed,
To cover man’s bones comes the conquering weed.
N.S.W.
FOE.


Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul.
Pattinson & Go. Ladies recommend them.
P>e sure you get the _ genuine with the
signature. Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
BRAND
STUHR.
STUHR’S
CAVIARE
FILLETED ANCHOVIES
(in Brine).
ANCHOVY PASTE.
Sold by all High-Class Provision Dealers.
c. p. STUHR & CO., Hamburg.
Indents through European Exporters only.
810-SHOWMEN!
"THERE’S only one BEST Biograph.
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.’’
iognc. Sole agents: Jeidan’s, Ltd.,
Street, Sydney.
We can prove
Send for Oata-
, 393 George
BRACES
For Men who know
Quality , Comfort , Style
At first class shops ,
m
'FOUNDED- 1888-
PHILLIPS’ ORMONDE&O>
Consv/Anp Fnpmccns, PaAxi/'/7/A>nr>s yS
7?VK/t;f%rr* *7p en A» • I7QUEEN S T
■MELBOURNE I
“Oimai” : “Te Pana” might have extended
his curses in a recent Bulletin against the Island
servant girl to the “boys” who serve as household
hindrances in many parts of the Pacific. He com-
plains of the girl’s trick of wiping knives on their
lava-lavas. I complain that the Papuan “boy” has
an ineradicable habit of wiping the cutlery and
crockery on his starboard quarter, quite irrespective
of whether he is wearing a sulu or not. A trader
friend told a new boy one morning to make him
some cocoa from a tin which had been pointed out
previously. Not until he had swallowed half a pint
or so did the tanbada discover that his chef had
mixed up a dose of carbolic tooth-powder under the
impression that it was Van Houten. Another boy
covered himself with glory in quite a different way.
His boss’s wife was departing south, and had dis-
carded a lot of outworn feminine gear, which she
handed over to cookie to burn. Later, when the
lady called upon him to serve the farewell dinner, to
which had come certain honored guests, including
a missionary, Taibutudi struck the assemblage “blue,
blind and bandy-,” as one of them (not the mission-
ary) described it later. When he entered with the
soiqi he wore a self-conscious and satisfied air. Hi>
upper half was encased in an old pink silk singlet,
and the rest of him in a pair of voluminous dessoini.
amid the tattered frills of which a faded fragment or
two of blue ribbon flaunted. Taibutudi reached the
darkness and safety in just three jumps, and his
mistress served the “kai” herself that night. li
was rather a strained function, and there was murder
in the lady’s eye.
* * # *
“Machete’’: There is one thing that the
Australian hospital authorities would do well to bear
in mind, and that is to prepare for plenty of malaria
cases when the “returns” begin to straggle back
from New Britain. No amount of care will keep the
expedition free of the plague. The conditions of
military service make ordinary precautions—such as
a timely retirement to the mosquito net and the
avoidance of native villages—impossible. Our casualty-
list from malaria will far outrange that from
bullets.
* * * *
The “typical Australian” is one who never
sees a box of matches without wanting to pocket it.
* ' * -X- -X-
In Maoriland preparations are being
made for the celebration of the centenary of the in-
troduction of Christianity into the islands, the
medium being Samuel Marsden, principal chaplain in
New South Wales. He had had experience of the
Maoris on his second voyage out, and had housed a
number of them in Sydney. Therefore when he
decided upon paying M.L. a visit he had a friend at
court in one of the “civilised” Maoris, who had
gone ahead with the object of preparing the way.
Marsden left Sydney in November, 1814. Amongst
the whites accompanying him was Thomas Kendall,
grandfather of the poet Henry Kendall. They landed
at the Bay of Islands, and Marsden preached his first .
sermon on Christmas Day-. He made altogether
seven voyages across the Tasman Sea. On his first he
purchased 200 acres of land as a mission station,
price 12 English axes, which, without doubt, were
used later in tribal warfare. It is claimed for Mars-
den that be was the first who introduced Australian
wool into England as a commercial venture. George
111. (who took a fancy to the parson and presented
him with some sheep) had a suit of clothes made
out of the jumbucks’ fur taken by the N. S. Wales
chaplain to England in 1807. Marsden died at
Parramatta in May, IS3B, and is buried in St.
John's cemetery.
THE NATURAL FOOD SUPPLY.
LONG UN : “ ’Undreds of starvin' tier-
mans”-
SHORTY: “Pore cows! All the dust-bins mint
’a got blown up ”
Some of the soldiers who are going to
Europe from Maoriland have wandered in from away
at the Back of Beyond. One who hailed from the
wild southern country saw a train for the first time
when he stepped off the lake steamer at Kingston on
his way to Dunedin. He was a surprised man, and
thought that the train was a bullock-dray that had
gone mad.
THE HOST IN THE COW COUNTRY.
NEW ARRIVALS (invited to the birthday parly): “ G'day! I'm Mr. Chumps, and this
is Airs. C.”
HOST (courteously): “Right yer are. Flip inside an' take yer clothes orf."
“Lagani-Namo”: Right up until yesterday
it was customary for villages about the Fly and Bamu
rivers (Western Papua) to furnish the visiting
(native) gentleman with a lady companion, to attend
to his back hair, pare his toenails, etc. The more
consequential the guest the younger would be the
damsel. It happened one day, away back toward the
Beginning of Things, that a visiting personage was so
foolish and unchivalric as to complain about the
lady lent to him. He brought her along before the
chiefs, and drew their attention to the wrinkles on
her forehead and to the flatness of her bosom.
When he had wound up his yabber a lot of stone
clubs hit him suddenly and hard on the head, and he
was no more. The remains were lashed to a sago-
log and set adrift on the river. A couple of hundred
miles down the river the log was stranded where there
were two girls attached to each other by the shoulders
and buttocks. This double-barrelled female freak
unloaded the freight and miraculously enlivened it.
Each side did its share of the nursing in turn, and
the patient, as soon as he regained strength—out of
gratitude to his saviors—made a heavy wooden sword,
and with a mighty stroke split the twins asunder.
They tumbled in opposite directions, with the raw
sides uppermost. The surgeon then cauterised them
with hot wood ashes; and he soon had them pro-
perly healed and able to make love to him simul-
taneously. But now, each woman, instead of schem-
ing for the common benefit, began to finesse for her
own particular advantage. The man soon developed a
worried look and a melancholy apprehension that
there wasn’t enough of him to go roftnd. At length
lie could not suffer it any more, and with an almighty
bowl of anguish he Called upon the ground to open
and swallow him. The women tried to grasp him, but
he had disappeared from human ken. Then the
females battled with each other until they were
.just shreds of flesh. Each strove to free herself
so that she could follow down the yawning crevasse
after the man. Finally, they both leapt into the pit,
but like a flash the gash sprung- together, and
squashed them into sausage-meat. The Kiwai man
who told me this didn’t use these identical words,
but it’s as literal a.- I can make it; and I believe it
is quite a true lie.
"Machete” : “Ivaroouda” asks in a recent
Bulletin- whether any finality has been reached as
to an emu’s pace. 1 can only say that any decent
kangaroo dog can catch one of the pedestrian birds.
Years ago when emus were thick in Western Queens-
land and caused much harm among lambing ewes, I
often ran them down in this fashion. There was
some fun in watching a dog new to the game
tackle his first emu. When he came up to his quarry
he invariably lunged for the fowl's great bobbing
bustle, which seemed the most convenient “holt.”
Next moment the air would be full of dust and
feathers and astounded hound, while a rear-stripped
but grateful emu made all haste for the horizon.
Next time the wise dog would wait until he could get
a thigh grip, and then the end came.
“ J.F.H.” writes from London :
The -London theatrical season is just closed. The
shutters are up at nearly all the playhouses, but
rehearsals of new pieces are in active progress on the
stages of some of them. The Times and Daily Tele-
graph review the past season in lengthy articles.
According to the former, its most striking feature was
“the number of disappointing plays that were pro-
duced.” Another notable circumstance was the “in-
creasing tendency to cut losses at the earliest possible
moment”—-that is to say, to withdraw a play that
did not instantly catch on. While the Times admits
.that this may be the’ best policy for the manager in
most instances, it points out that two of the most
brilliant successes, “Milestones” and “Typhoon,”
might have been strangled in their infancy if this
summary course had been taken. For its first fort-
night Milestones was played to very poor houses,
and its withdrawal was in serious contemplation when
the boom set in. Likewise with “Typhoon,” the
one big triumph achieved by the late Lawrence Irv-
ing. Its early career seemed hopeless, but young
Irving’s confidence continued unshaken, and the event
proved he was right.
Anothei aspect of this hasty withdrawal of plays is
emphasised by the Times—the cruelty and injustice to
the “unfortunate company who may have been re-
hearsing for weeks a play that has not lived for a
fortnight.”
The prominent successes of the season have been
Shaw’s “Pygmalion,” Maugham's “The Land of Pro-
mise,” Arnold Bennett’s “Great Adventure” (it looks
like going on for ever), Cyril Maude’s “Grjimpy,”
Matheson Lang’s Chinese horror, “Mr. Wu,” and the
Yankee screamer, “Potash and Perlmutter.” There
were only a couple of successful revivals of old pieces
—Oscar Asche’s “Kismet,” and Gerald Du Maurier’s
“Diplomacy.” Not the least remarkable portent of
the season was the “almost total eclipse of musical
comedy,” killed, says the Times, by “the continued
popularity of the music-hall revue.” The disbanding
of the company at the Gaiety, the theatre that was
the birthplace and long-time flourishing headquarters
of burlesque, is described as “one of the tragedies of
the theatrical year.” The record short run of the late
London theatrical season was achieved at the Apollo
by The Little Lamb.” It lasted five nights. Good
euphonious name for a theatre—Apollo. Melbourne
once had an “Apollo Hall,” at the Bourke-street end
of the Eastern Arcade—a site occupied by the Hay-
market Theatre, afterwards stupidly rechristened the
“Duke of Edinburgh” in the ’6o’s, when G. V.
Brooke, Barry Sullivan, Charles Kean, Joseph Jeffer-
son, Charles Mathews, and other Thespians were mak-
ing Melbourne a busy theatrical centre.
Another crusade ;s agitating London concerning
Sunday picture shows, which are permitted by the
County Council to do business from 6 to 11 p.m.
piovided the profits are handed over to some charity
or other. The names of many of the “charities”
placarded outside some of these places on Sunday
evenings border on jest, and cannot be discovered in
any directory. A return just presented by the Theatres
and Music Halls Committee of the County Council
shows that, during the season 1913-4, the gross
receipts from the Sunday-evening performances in the
picture palaces amounted to £169,000. Out of this
£95 169 was kept for “rent, out-of-pocket expenses
and films. Wages for the staff mopped up £40,806,
and the remnant, £32,644, is supposed to have gone
to some nebulous or shadowy “charity.”
Oscar Asche has just registered the 500th perform-
ance of “Kismet” at London Globe, and the piece is
still going strong. Advance booking is such that
Oscar is utterly unable to fix a date for final execu-
tion. After “Kismet” he and Lily Brayton will do a
brief Shakspearian season (“Othello” and “The
Taming of the Shrew”). Following that they will
present a novelty in the shape of Asehe’s dramatisa-
tion of Rider Haggard’s “Child of the Storm,” whicjh
he has rechristened “Mameena” for stage purposes.
Alan Quartermain is the only white man in the piece.
The rest of the cast are Zulus, among whom Oscar
and Lily are included. Wonder how Lily will dress
the part. A real Zulu belle would solve that question
off-hand —off nearly everything, in fact.
A trio of London suffragettes celebrated the 500th
anniversary of “Kismet” by chaining themselves to
seats in the gallery, rising simultaneously in the
middle of the star scene, and demanding with one
voice “Votes for women.” It took some time to
unchain them and hustle them downstairs, and the
progress of the piece was temporarily suspended.
When the stage traffic was resumed, Oscar Asche ex-
claimed : “0 Hadj, art thou come to rest —like a
senseless woman?” Not a brilliant bit of gag, but
the crowded audience applauded. Notice how audi-
ences applaud “spontaneous” gags of this sort. They
probably do not see the point, the drift or the mean-
ing of the interpolation, but they know it is their duty
to laugh and clap as if they did.
Kings and Queens.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE met Phil McCall in the bar of
Cameron’s pub at the Tipp, which
is in Bungaree (Vic.), where the
Irish are more Irish than they are in Con-
naught. Phil was a man of fifty, a prepos-
terously curly man, and red —very red. He
was sitting smiling at a long beer, and
blarneying with it when we entered, and he
was beatifically boozed.
He arose and bowed with a fine sweep.
He was five feet four, and he had a round,
bald spot gleaming in the centre 'of his thick
red curls. >
“Ye may sit wid me, gintlemin,” he said,
“for all I’m Phil McCall iv the McCalls, iv
th’ kings iv Leinster, ’n’ direct connect wid
Conn of the Hunderd Fights. When th’
sweet Lady Cesair kirn to Ireland in th’
beginnin’, whin time was scarce begun, V
England wasn’t contemplated at all, nor
dramed of, thim bein’ the fine noisy days, ’ll’
great afoor th’ flood ’n’ th’ time iv Noah,
him too bein’ an Irishman ’n’ a gra-a-n’
dhrinker, she brung wid her fifty weemin
V three min, th’ noblest ’n’ sthrongest ’n’
bravest on earth, t’ start tli’ godliest ’n’
most frolicsome nation ever was, an’ wan iv
thim min was me fir-rst ancestor. Another
ancestor on me mother’s Side was the same
wha t .vshwep’ th’ Danes frim Munster, ’n’
med himself king iv all Ireland wid the
simple wor-rd. So ye’ll see I’m well con-
nect, ’n’ ye’ll take me,say fer it I’m brave.
Man, I’m brave!
“An’ I’m sthrong. Cameron, ye snuffin’
Scot, am I sthrong ’r what? ’Tis appallin’,
me strength.”
McCall took his clay pipe in liis two
hands and broke the stem as if it had been
short-bread.
“Mark that,” he said calmly, “’n’ me in
dthrink. Brave, brave, ’n’ sthrong! There’s
nothin’ in all tli’ counthry ’n’ far places t’
put before me I wouldn’t take a holt of —
lions, ’n’ elephan’s, ’n’ cornucopias aven!”
We had taken our refreshment and we,
passed out, but the McCall came with us,
clinging to my arm.
“Brave, ’n’ sthrong,” lie continued, “'n'
beautiful—never a better. D’yeh mind me
nose? Straight it is, V cut delikit. Put
yer rule” to jt do yeh doubt me. ’Tis a nose,
famed ’n’ -well regarded.-, sir. ’n’ come down
from ~Red Hugh O’Neill, wid me hair so
Never was the like since the Red
himself. Did yeh hear me eye spoke of in
the places, beyond th’ railways? ’Tis known
in the cities maybe—so large, and blue, like
the heaven atween the hills. There’s no eye
like it but one me Katie have. ’Tis me
daughter. .Ye know her be the poethry ’n’
the words iv the books, a Queen iv Ireland
had she her rights, ’n’ we all had our rights,
’n’ she that sweet tli’ flowers do be turnin’
their faces to her sleepin’-place at night and
all night, and the birds heart-broke t’ look
in. the eyes of her till mornin’s come. She’s
fair, 'n’ she’s straight ’n’ tall with loveliness
and pride, though gentleness is on her and
over her—would shame the bloom of the
peach, or the touch of a red rose like vel-
vet.”
McCall had reached a rough, broken gate
before a tumbling skillion. against the paint-
less weatherboards of which an old goat
rubbed her lean ribs. He leaned on the
fence., holding me.
“’Tis the fine day for Ireland, sir. that the
McCall is brave and sthrong, ’n’ Cesair
McCall herself fit t’ queen it what time the
kings, come to their own in Munster, ’n’ her
full iv learnin’, ’n’ tli’ two starry eyes to
her, ’n’ th’ mouth like the red flower you’d
break in your hand.”
At. this point a large, raw, red-headed,
ungainly woman of thirty, with a bony face
tanned the color of a horse-carrot, came to
the skillion door, peering under a - great
hand.
“Is it you, McCall?” she squealed. “Come
home have ye all, ’n’ a dirty bla’guard iv
your like to lead you?”
She came striding down, a veritable camel
of a. woman. She seized the McCall with
one hand, and banged him over the ear with
the other. Then she drove him up the path,
spanking him right and left, and finally,
with a great kick, drove him headlong into
the house.
“And who is the lady?” I asked Roe.
“'Tis the beautiful Cesair McCall,” he
said:. “Phil’s own daughter. The same
what’s Queen iv Ireland had she her rights
an’ we all had our rights.”
EDDYSON.


TOO WELL.
GRIEF-STRICKEN LIB.: “Alas! Poor Yorick! I knew him well.”
THE BOY: “My oath, you did!”


1
Selayne'
( Regd. )
The Latest
Shirting Flannel.
“Se/ayne” keeps its distinguished
appearance after repeated washing,
is guaranteed unshrinkable and
absolutely fast in color.
M
E 15558
SB
Obtainable All Stores.
Every Hat is of the highest grade, ranking first in the world for Style
Finish, Durability and Value. Wear “WOODROW’S” always
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [3
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Baronet Gawaine Baillie, of the Moots
Greys, whose death has been cabled, was a
native of Victoria, son of Thomas Baillie, of
Toorak. lie was a grandson of David
Elliott Wilkie, a notable medico and colonist
of 60 years ago, who was one of the founders
of the Philosophical Society (now the Royal)
and a member of the committee of the Ex-
ploration Fund which sent Burke and Wills
across Australia. Incidentally he was, also,
a member of the Legislative Council, but
anybody can be that.
DR. CUNNINGHAM , of
Melbourne Argus.
It is reported that the deceased baronet.
Ilenniker Heaton, of the Sydney Evening
News and Town and Country Journal.
was one of the British travellers in Germany
who were bailed up at the beginning of tne
war. Being aged and feeble, the hurry and
worry of the Kaiser’s minions hastened his
end. In fact, he died before his time of
Prussian incivility.
“Coot”: John McLean, who died recently
in the Warrnambool (Vic.) hospital, was
known as the “Purnim Giant.” At 14 years
of age liis height was 6ft. 6in., and his
weight 14 stone. At 21 he stood 7ft. 6in..
and weighed 18 stone. From the age of 23
lie was bedridden, and he spent the last
two years of his life in hospital.
The glory has departed. In other words,
William of Wied has abdicated the throne
or up-turned candle-box of Albania. Wil-
liam wasn’t the kind of foreigner who could
hold his own in a strange land, like Fer-
dinand of Bulgaria or Charles of Rou-
raania. He found a barren country torn
by clan feuds and religious differences. The
only point on which the people seemed to
be solid was their contempt for the obscure
German who had become their monarch.
William took one wild bloodshot look at his
empire, put his Minister of War under
arrest, and then fled on board a foreign
warship. For a while he ranked with the
Stuarts and the Bourbons as one of the
Kings in Exile. Now lie has thrown in the
royal towel and chucked up the sponge of
greatness.
A FIGHT THAT IS ONLY GOING TO
BE RELISHED BY ONE PARTY.
He could also assure them that, as far as the
Ministry and the party with which he had something
to do were concerned, they would see that the larger
proportion of the produce required in Australia and
produced in Australia would in future be manufactured
in Australia. (Applause.) —Prime Minister Fisher.
Australia: il Now, Rm ready for you. You
ought to have been knocked out years ago.”
[Fred Brown, “Middleton,” Stanmore, N.S.W.]
“B. J.” : At the age of 49, J. W. McCay, as
commander of the Victorian brigade of the
Expeditionary Force, goes to war for the first
time after being a citizen soldier for 30 years.
As boss of the Intelligence Department he
has shown himself a better soldier than poli-
tician. He threw up school-teaching in Castle-
maine (where the beer comes from) to enter
the Victorian Leg. Ass., and later got into
Federal politics, and was Customs Minister
in the McLean Cabinet. When McCay’s old
Castlemaine electorate was wiped out he
stood for Corio at the time of Reid’s dis-
astrous campaign; but Corio returned a
sound Protectionist in R. A. Crouch, and
McCay afterwards let politics alone. It is
to be said in his favor that he has always
had the courage of his opinions, and was one
of the public men who refused resolutely to
Maffick at a time when not to Maffick was to
be a “pro-Boer” and a dashed poor accident
risk for any insurance co. Incidentally it
may be mentioned that McCay is a brother of
Adam and Del —both of Sydney Sun.
Although born in Ireland J.W. missed being
an Australian only by a few months. No man
could reasonably have been expected to repair
his mistake much more quickly than he did.
“Q. 1.8.” writes: —
Jacobus Hendrik de la Rey, easily the best leader,
after Botha, that the Boers produced in the late war,
is dead, shot bv mistake and by night and by a
John Hop, while motoring (Rey, not the
Hop) out of Johannesburg to his farm. One
of the Dutch-French Huguenot strain, he stood
for all that is best in Boerdom. Yet De
la Rey was not by any means deserving of the
idiotic title, “The Bayard of the Boers,” bestowed
on him by the British press, because he sent the
sorely-wounded Methuen into hospital at Klerlcsdorp
after he had captured him. A fierce anil confirmed
anti-Britisher, he nearly kicked over the traces the
other day, when the question of mobilising the
Union forces for service against the East African
Germans came up. Botha, who had great influence
over him, extracted an apology later, said apology
taking the form of a grudging admission that, after
all, of the two evils he preferred the British to the
Germans. There were one or two black marks
against De la Key, chief among them being the
shooting, after an alleged court-martial, of one
Bond, a British subject and a non-combatant. Still,
take him all in al-1, he was a fine specimen of his
breed, and one of the few Dutchmen who showed
themselves capable of handling large bodies of
troops. Ilis complete getaway from the British
envelopment at Poplar Grove, in March, 1900, was a
good bit of work, in the face of great odds.
The hon. Leopold Scarlett, R.N., who came
to Australia for his health and was
appointed to the ill-fated submarine AEI
just in time to share its fate, is a
descendant of the Brigadier-General of the
same name who led the now-forgotten
charge of the Heavy or Lumbering Brigade
at Balaclava, a feat of arms which has
been eclipsed by the more theatrical and
far less effective charge of the Light
Brigade on the same day. A brother, who
was for some time A.D.C. to the
Chelmsfords in Queensland, was a cheerful
and talkative casual. Some of his
impressions of the autocratic Queen Mary,
then Princess of Wales, related while she
was staying at Queensland Government
House, were highly entertaining.
“Machete” : The old leaven works, General
Beyer, of the South African Union’s mili-
tary forces, has chucked his job, obviously
for the reason that he objects to appear in
the role of a commander of a British force.
Of all the Boer leaders Beyers and De Wet
were the bitterest and most irreconcilable.
Each had a price on his head, and only the
inclusion of a general amnesty in the terms
of peace at last induced them to listen to
Botha’s pleadings. Beyer’s particular beat
was the wild and semi-impenetrable bush
veldt N.W. of Pretoria. His commandoes
were made up of “bywoners,” the lowest
class of Dutch farmer, with many of the
broken adventurers who had joined the Boer
forces from all the sewers of civilisation in
the early stages of the war. Some of the
men stacked up against them weren’t any
better. Respectable and well-behaved
columns rarely visited this No Man’s Land,
and it was left, as a rule, to the policing of
corps of odds and ends. Some of the odds
were very odd, and some of the ends were
very disreputable.
“Nemo” : James Stiffe, a neighbor of mine
in Hawthorn (Vic.), who has just passed
out, was remarkable on account of the
friends and surroundings of his early life
in England. His father’s talent lay in
writing comic verse, which became a feature
of London Punch. Coming to Melbourne
in 1852, he wrote a lot for the Argus, when
Edward Wilson was alive. Then he went
to Sydney and wrote for the London Illus-
trated News, lie also wrote for a Mel-
bourne paper, of which W. D. Kelly, a man
well known in bis day, was editor. When
Kelly was at Work his dog lay under the
table. It died under the table. In 1858
Stiffe fell in for a fortune in England, went
back, and remained for some years, writing
verse and prose for Mark Lemon, when that
well-known party edited London Punch.
When Lemon was squeezed out, Shirley
Brooks, who wrote plays and stories, went
in, and Stiffe still wrote rhymes up to about
the time he returned to Australia. He and
his son (who, as I said before, has
just died, like Kelly’s dog under the table)
hobnobbed, in their time, with Dickens,
George Cruickshank, Sala, and all that lot.
This yarn is rather mixed, but I wish to
point out that there were two Stifles within
my knowledge, and that neither of them was
Kelly’s dog.
THE IRON CROSS.
(A well-known decoration in Germany.)
Among the undrowned from the Aboukir,
one of the three British cruisers torpedoed
by German submarines in the North Sea,
was Charles F. Smith (26), a native of
Kendall (N.S.W.). He early went to sea
under the White Star Co.’s flag, and, show-
ing unusual ability, soon obtained-an extra
master’s certificate. Then he reached for
the ambition of his life, a commission in
J. Bull’s navy. He was a lieutenant on
the Aboukir when Wilhelm’s emissaries
punched her below the belt.
Moses Ward, the oldest pharmacist in the
Australias, has just died at Hobart, aged
87 years. He left a widow and eight chil-
dren. One daughter is the wife of Com-
mander Beresford, who is in charge of the
Australian Expeditionary force in Papua.
So Moses did well for his country before the
light went out.
FRANK WILSON (Westratian politician).
“Q. 1.8.” writes: —
Colonel F. Daly, C. 8., who lately arrived in Aus-
tralia from San Francisco on a holiday tour, is one
of the greatest characters the Royal Army Medical
Corps ever harbored. He was medical officer at Dundee
(South Africa) when the British abandoned it, and
was left with many wounded to the remonstrances of
the Boers when they rolled into the town. Daly is
a very large man, with a temper and a brogue that
may be described as out of the ordinary. His usual
level of amiability had been disturbed by the unani-
mous desertion of his volunteer orderlies, and when
he and Commandant Lucas Meyer, also a large and
irritated person, started to argue the matter all the
baboons in the vicinity fled to the higher peaks of
the Drakensberg. However, the two huge men struck
up a friendship. They recognised each other as
brethren in profanity. Daly stuck to bis medical
job, and got a C.B. for his services.
“J.”: One of The Bulletin’s social ex-
perts mentions (17/9/T4) that the 4th
Dragoon Guards (British) was known for
years as the “Trade Union.” I would be
interested to learn the Service’s pet name
for the lioyal Bucks. Hussars —the County
Yeomanry. The colonel is one Lawson, a
member of the big Yiddish newspaper-own-
ing family. One of the majors is W. J.
Levi; another C. R. Disraeli. Of the regi-
ment’s three captains the senior is named
Goetz, and the next man L. N. de Roths-
child. And among the lieutenants are two
more Rothschilds, another Lawson, a Law-
son-Johnston and a Primrose —who is Chris-
tain only on his father’s side. The name
of the regimental chaplain, or rabbi, is
given as Shaw, in the Army List —a mis-
print, possibly, for Sharon.
When the Government asked the Aus-
tralian Journalists’ Association to nominate
someone for the position of official war
correspondent with the army, the choice lay
between C. E. W. Bean, of the S. M.
Herald staff, Randolph Bedford, of all
the world, and Keith Murdoch, of
Sydney Sun. The A.J.A. officials decided
to recommend Bean. It was felt that the
versatile Randolph was slightly too old for
the strenuous job of dodging bullets on
battlefields. A war ’correspondent must be
able to run at least 20 miles without stop-
ping, and the spectacle of a well-developed
man, aged 43, tearing along, pursued by a
Zeppelin dropping bombs at him, moved the
A.J.A. council to tears. With a convulsive
sob the referee placed his hand on the bright
head of the man who is named after the
vegetable. Randolph 'is certain for nomina-
tion whenever a naval official historian or
recorder is called for. He can float mag-
nificently, and is capable of making notes
in the water long after the fleet is sunk.
SOMEBODY’S DARLING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
i suppose the old cat thought 1 was trying to
fascinate him. Can you imagine anyone wanting to
flirt with that poor little shrimp?” —Scrap of conver-
sation overheard when the train stopped.
Yes, his whiskers are wrong and his tie’s a mistake,
But his wife thinks the heart of proud Beauty he’d
break
If he let himself go ;
But he doesn't, you know,
For a glint in his eye sets her snapping and
snarling.
He’s somebody’s darling!
There are moths in his hair and the dreaded white
ants
Have apparently been at his sorrowful pants ;
But his wife, in a whirl,
Knows that tome wretched girl
Will annex him some night for her permanent honey.
Say, isn’t it funny 1
Not a beauty goes by but she bristles and stares,
And declares she is padded, or dyed, or “has airs” ;
And, unless he agrees,
She is quite ill at ease,
And suspects that, at last, her poor sheep has
revolted
And burst out and bolted.
Be he never so faded there’s no one like Pa
To a truly devoted suburbanite Ma ;
Though his whiskers arc wrong
And a whole comic song
Could be built on his tie never tidy or level,
He’s somebody’s devil!
N.S.W.
KODAK.


WE ARE MAKING A SPECIALITY
IN OFFICERS’ SERVICE UNIFORMS
Tunics, Marrickville Pure Wool, to
measure ... ... ... 55/=
Tunics, 250 z. Marrickville Pure
Wool, to measure ... ... 63 =
Trousers, to measure ... ... 21/=
Strapped Breeches, to measure ... 39/=
D.B. Overcoats, to measure ... 84/=
Tweed lined, 10/= extra.
Shirts to measure, including collar,
12 6, 13/6, 15/6, 16/6 & 21/6
Caps 10/6
Balaclava Caps, 2/4 each, or 24/= do/..
Leggings 14/6 & 16/6
Hogskin, 25/=
Military Boots ... ... ... 25/=
Your Chance!
■=/fus/palian Plfcol
cpfuaPralian People.
n
3^
•e.
Jf.
“/ can't go to the front , but I can help Australia—l can wear Australian Goods A
e . a ! wa^s stocked Vicars’ Marrickville Tweeds, and you can get your Suit at once, with the fullest range of patterns to
select from, unequalled in quality, cut, finish and wear, from £3/3/=
We aie also as always fully stocked in the latest styles of Australian manufacture in Hats, Shirts, Mercery, Underwear,
races, oots, ags, ugs, etc., all of which we absolutely guarantee as being of unequalled value and quality.
You should certainly send for our New Catalogue of Everything for Men’s and Boys’ Wear.
GOWING BROS.,
“PIONEER DISTRIBUTORS OF AUSTRALIAN GOODS,”
484, 486, 488 & 490 George Street; &3,5, 7, 9,11, 13, 15 &17 Royal Arcade, SYDNEY.


SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
Clarence Street, Sydney
Represen taiives
in Australia for
Stanley Solid Woven Cotton Belting
Has far greater breaking strain than Leather ; cheaper, more pliable.
MANUFACt likED IN GREAT BRITAIN. LARGE 6 REPRESENT AT IVE STOCKS CAR RUED*
Overall, McCray, Ltd.
44 Campbell Street
SYDNEY.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Large Stocks also on hard—Samson Windmills, Oal W,
Shtep and Cat-Is T‘'cughing, Pumps, &c.
:ter Fipe and Fittings
- Serd for Catalogue.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Finney, Isles & Co., Ltd., retail sup-
pliers of neaCy everything, of Brisbane: —
Towards
duly, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1904 . . £17,566
1905 .. £4,179 6 )>.c. = £1,768 £2,411 15,155
1906 .. 5,328 6 ~,, 1,909 3,414 11,741
!907 .. 9.45“ 6 „ „ 2,189 7,268 4,473
Reserves.
1908 .. 12,767 6 ~ ~ 3,929 8,838 4,365
1909 .. 13,898 6 ~ ~ 3,983 9,915 14,280
1910 .. 11,694 6 ~ ~ 4,037 7,657 21,937
1911 .. 19,863 8 ~ „ 6,815 13,048 34,985
Premiums on new shares. . 4,062 39,047
1912 .. 16,850 8 p.c. =t 13,057 3,799 42,846
1913 .. 14,617 8 ~ ~ 12,861 1,756 44,602
1914 .. 20,475 8 ~ ~ 12,944 7,532 52,133
Except that it has lost tlie services of two
i i: its directors, this co. lias had a remark-
ably successful year. Mr. Tom Davis, the
Sydney accountant, who had assisted in
launching the co., and Mr. 11. M. Hicks,
who had helped to lift two or three of
Brisbane’s businesses out of the ruck, both
died during the year. Nevertheless Finney,
isles still has its two managing directors,
and they look to have many years’ work
ahead of them. When the co. started it
had to be content with an exceedingly
modest capital, Queensland being just then
in one of its spells of the dry horrors.
However, the thing was financed somehow,
and the prolific northern State stood to the
plucky and energetic promoter. At that
time there was a debt of nearly £50,000 to
the Finney estate on the purchase of the
business. In eight years the public had
been sufficiently impressed with the
management to provide capital not only to
wipe out that debt, but also to furnish most
of the money necessary to house the co. in
its own very fine freehold premises. These
cost well over £lOO,OOO. Meantime, as the
next list shows, considerable changes have
been taking place in other items in conse-
quence of the rapid growth of the turnover :
1905. 19X0. 1912. 1913. 1914.
-£ £,£>£&
Capital . . 29,462 07,293 151,993 153,193 154,393
Debt to
Finney’s 42,704 27,458
Other liabili-
ties . . 60,962 133,795 128,798 126,900 117,205
Stock . .' 60,878 89,119 136,940 130,243 122,172
Real property 7,665 84,332 109,078 112,469 111,867
Book debts ' 25,550 45,122 54,87.4 60,616 07,407
Other assets 25,048 34,649 29,129 27,801 28,769
The liabilities, though they have been lately
cut into a hit, look large. Still they are not
altogether of a character to give the direc-
tors much concern. In the total (£117,205),
there are £39,000 of interminable debentures
carrying 5 p.c., and another £48.055 is on
mortgage. Interest on these debts may
have to be scratched for in had times, but
at any rate the co. isn’t liable to be called
upon suddenly for the principal. As things
have turned out, the growth of the book
debts to £07,407 probably gives more con-
cern. Fortunately, though Queensland is
bit like the rest of the States by the
stoppage of wool sales, it has its magnificent
sugar industry to give it a lift —an
industry which finds all its market in
Australia, and isn’t dependent upon sea
routes and warring nations. Moreover,
while the greater part of Australia is
stricken with a worse drought than most
of the country yet seems to realise, the
Darling Downs is having a season better
than the average, and stock is actually
being trucked from the N.S.W. back
country to Queensland. The co.’s holding
of merchandise is heavy (£122,172), but
from one point of view this may he an
advantage, the market quotations being now
generally on the up grade. That the co.
will this year repeat its last year’s profit,
given all that in, is too much to expect.
The Adelaide Steamship Co.: —
Net . To Re-
May, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1901 ..£47,041 5 p.c. = £25,359 £21,682 £21,682
1902 .. 91,329 10 ~ „ 50,718 40,611 62,293
•Tune,
1903 .. 94,978 9f ~ „ 50,718 44,260 106,553
1904 .. 86,104 10 „ „ 50,718 35.386 141,939
1905 .. 86.998 10 ~ ~ 50,718 36,280 178,219
1906 .. 76,307 10 „ ~ 50,718 25,589 203,808
1907 .. 83,890 10 ~ ~ 50,718 33,172 236,980
L9OB .. 82,850 10 ~ ~ 50,718 32,132 269,112
£202.870 transferred to capital .. 66,242
1909 .. 84,112 10 p.c. = 62,129 21,983 88,225
1910 .. 85,462 10 „ „ 71,004 14,458 102,683
1911. .. 67,221 10 ~ .. 71,004 -- 98,900
1912 .. 51,852 8 ~ ~ 56,304 - 93.948
1913 .. 49,874 3 ~ .. 21,301 23,573 122,521
1914 .. 63,759 6 ~ „ 42,602 21,157 143,678
Federation, which threw down inter-State
trade barriers, put this co. on its feet. For
some years previously it. had been limping
along painfully with the help of a crutch.
Concurrently the development of Westralia,
following the gold discoveries, came to its
rescue. In 1900 tlie capital was £202,870.
and the shares had been at a discount.
The improvements in the co.’s prospects were
so great that the management felt justified
in rushing up the capital to £710,045, the
.\tra hnlf-million-odd being added wholly.
• o- almost wholly, out of reserves, which
were drawn upon mercilessly for the pur-
pose. The speed was far too great. In its
own prosperity the management forgot that
tie labor employed would also demand, and
ho in a position to secure, much higher
rates of pay. along with easier conditions.
This, coupled with the fact that the cos.
had launched steamers really ahead of the
immediate requirements of the inter state
trade, was mainly responsible for the very,
poor sir wing made by the Adelaide Steam-
ship Co. in 1913. This co. not only added
to its fleet very rapidly, but, getting in no
new share capital, was compelled to borrow
heavily to pay the builders. At June, 1913,
it owed no less than £534,575. The past
year has seen a slight improvement. Partly
no doubt because, though two steamers have
been added, four others, mostly of smaller
tonnage, have been sold. The position in
five years has changed as follows: —
1909. 1914.
Liabilities (unused tickets and
sundry creditors) . . . . £142,984 £459,905
Liquid assets (cash, bills, debtors,
agents’ balances). . . . 45,732 54,342
Liabilities in excess of liquid
assets . . .. .. . . £97,252 £405,563
In the 12 months the excess of liabilities
lias been reduced by about £68,000. The
12 months’ profit, after providing the 6 p.c.
dividend, allows £21,157 to be set aside for
reserves. Of this amount £15,000 has been
added to the Insurance Account and £5OOO
to the Repairs and Renewals Fund. As
usual, it is impossible to say whether and
to what extent these are true reserves, that
is to say, net surplus profits. The co.
certainly does not carry all its own
insurance, and its own Insurance Fund may
be a provision to cover probable losses
through dislocation of trade in the event
of a wreck. The Repairs and Renewals
Fund seems to bo a general contingency
account; it was from this fund that, in the
past, much of the transfer to capital was
made.
The Maoriland State Land Bank,
officially known nowadays as the Settlers
Branch of the State-Guaranteed Advances
Office, whose deficit to begin with was due
to preliminary expenses and loss on loan
flotations ;
Loss on Loan
March, Profits. Flotations. Deficit.
1902 .. £29,452 £67,756
1903 .. 24,907 £43,953 86.502
1904 .. 26,561 20,585 80,826
1905 .. 34,454 46,372
1906 ... 34,048 12,324
Reserves.
1907 .. 44,972 32,648
1908 .. 48,449 81,097
Premiums Received.
1909 . . 60,822 3,014 144,933
Loss.
1910 .. 41,832 6,439 180,326
1911 .. 60,441 240,767
1.912 . . 63,276 45,441 258,602
1913 .. 73,798 44,959 287,441
1914 .. 81,778 32,976 336,243
The great, eruption which threw John Bal-
lance to the top of affairs in Maoriland in,
the early ’9o’s was responsible also for the
arrival of an Advances to Settlers office as
a State department. Many changes have
occurred since then, nearly all with the
object of extending the benefits of this cheap
money system. As a result this State Land
Bank has, during the last five years, been a
branch of one big organisation designed to
provide loans to (1) settlers: (2) artisans;
(3) municipal bodies. The Act which made
the change authorises the Government to
borrow annually £1,500,000 for the first
lot; £750,000 for the second crowd; and
£1,000,000 for the third gang. During last
year further changes were made in the con-
stitution of the office, and three other
branches were established, the more im-
portant to deal with guaranteed mining
advances and Native land settlements.
The Settlers’ branch continues the most
important, though the demand for advances
to enable artisans to build homes has been
very rapid. The money is in the first place
raised nominally by the Public Trustee, to
whom 1 p.c. is repaid by way of sinking
fund, not, however, out of profits, but out
of loans, which, of course, makes it no real
sinking fund at all. These repayments,
along with other payments into the public
debt sinking fund, are also in the hands of
this office for investment. And part of the
money also goes to settlers. The whole
business is a weird complication. The
Public Trustee raises money and hands it
to the Advances to Settlers’ branch. The
Advances to Settlers’ branch pays 1 p.c.
per annum back to the Public Trustee. The
Public Trustee then hands the so-called
sinking fund back to the people he got it
from, and they put it to the credit of the
Public Debt Sinking Fund branch, where
it is available for advances to the same
people as it was available for before it
started on its circumnavigation. It all
makes a tremendous show of doing some-
thing, but unfortunately the one thing that
ought to be done (namely, the accumulation
of a liquid sinking fund provided out of
profits) is left entirely undone.
The next table shows the growth of the
advances :
1903 ..£2,590,543 j 1909 ..£6,114,300
1904 .. 2,795,849 \ 1910 .. 5,662,973
1905 . . 2,753,182 [ 1911 . . 6,140,984
1906 . . 3,125,069 1912 . . 7,295,768
1907 .. 3,551,876 | 1913 .. 7.451,127
1908 . . 4,180,616 ] 1914 . . 7,722,143
In addition there are overdue mortgage
instalments totalling £8420. making the
total principal owing by mortgagors
£7,730,569. This is scattered amongst
19,041 customers. The year’s increase was
£272,753 of outstanding principal and 044
mortgagors. The average advance on free-
hold is £480; on leasehold £270. The . mort-
gagor gets the money at 41 p.c. for prompt
payment—a rate which would, of course,
be utterly impossible but for the small
expense rate. Per £lOO of capital employed
the Department’s exes, ran last year to only
2s. 7d. In previous years it has been the
custom in post-morteming these accounts to
add valuation fees to the exes. The
material for this purpose is not available
ibis year. The loans are repayable by
instalments, and 1 p.c. added to the interest
will wipe the debt out in 361 years. And
while the State is doing this remarkable
thing for settlers—charging them in interest
and sinking fund combined an amount less
than Private Enterprise formerly charged
them for interest alone —a very comfortable
profit still disclosed. This profit, after
providing for discounts on loans, now
aggregates £330.243. Certainly a sub-
stantial reserve is called for, considering
that there is nearly £8,000.000 of other
peoples’ money at risk. So far the Depart-
ment has escaped heavy losses. Last year
five securities had to be sold and £325
written oft’. But the recent dramatic out-
break of the world’s greatest war reminds
people that there are contingencies to be
provided for.
* * * *
Maorilanu State Bank. —Advances to
Workers Department—
Loan Ex-
Advances penses Writ-
Mat'., Outstanding'. Loss. ten Off. Deficit.
1907 .. £5,490 £434 £434
1908 .. 203,143 228 662
Profit. Reserves.
1909 . . 482,436 3,757 3,095
1910 . . 818,341 1,396 £1,424 3,067
1911 .. 1,177,959 6,864 952 8,979
1912 .. 1,642,140 10,300 8,000 11,279
1913 . . 2,005,689 11,263 10,000 12,542
1914 . . 2,196,516 10,141 8,822 13,861
This was an outcome of the successful
Advances to Settlers business. Parliament
authorised the office (nowadays officially
known as the State Advances’ Office) to
.borrow £750,000 a year and lend it “for the
purpose of purchasing or erecting a dwelling
to any person employed in manual or
clerical work who is not in receipt of an
income of more than £2OO per annum and
is not the owner of any land other than the
allotment on which it is proposed to build.”
Up to three-fourths of the A'alue of the
security may be advanced, and the maximum
Joan is £450. The average actually lent is
£2OB on freehold security and £lB6 on lease-
hold. With the object of reducing the out-
lay to the lowest possible amount free plans
and specifications are available for intend-
ing customers. To meet the case of those
who have a bit put by and want something
more palatial a few T of the department’s
types of building run to about £6OO. On
the most substantial premises in districts
with a look of permanency about them the
loan may be for as much as 364 years. On
an advance for that period an annual
repayment of 1 p.c. wipes out the debt.
Interest is at the rate of 44 p.c. Notwith-
standing this low rate the expenses are so
exceedingly moderate that a fair profit is
shown. So far a great part of this surplus
has been written off against loan discounts;
that is to say, in order to raise the money
at low interest, money has been borrowed at
under par, and the profit has been put by
to provide for the ultimate repayment of
the loan at par. In the years to come the
branch will show the advantage of the low
interest rate in the shape of substantial
profits. Losses on realisation of foreclosed
properties may, of course, have to be faced ;
but as the first rush to borrow is now over,
and as every year will give the office a wider
margin of security as the instalments come
in, the thing should work out right.
The reserves at present are nevertheless so
very slender, considering the nature of the
risks, that every possible opportunity of
adding to them should be taken.
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania:—
Writ-
Dividends iind ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Aug., ’05..11,532 12 p.c.= 8,914 2,618 136,232
Premiums oil new shares .. 8,508 144.740
Feb., ’O6. .11,298 12 p.c.= 9.450 971 877 145,617
Aug., ’06.. 1.3.811 12 „ ~ 9,450 1000 3,361 148,978
Feb., ’07..14,564 12 „ ~ 9,450 2000 3,114 152,092
Aug., ’07..17,164 12 ~ „ 9,450 6000 1,714 153,806
Premiums on new shares . . 25,000 178,806
Feb., ’08..17,120 12 p.c.= 11,025 2500 3.595 182,401
Aug., ’OB.. 16,272 12 „ ~11.025 2500 2,747 185,148
Feb., ’09..16,142 12 ~ ~11,025 2500 2,617 187,765
Aug'., ’09..16,663 12 „ ~11,025 2500 3,138 190,903
Feb., ’10..16,346 12 „ ~11,156 2500 2,690 193,593
Aug., ’10..16,575 12 ~ ~11,156 2500 2,919 196,512
Feb., ’11..20,133 14 ~ ~12,862 4000 3,271 199,783
Aug., ’ll . .17,965 14 „ ~12,862 5,103 204,886
Feb., ’12..17,941 14 „ „ 12,862 5,079 209,965
Aug., ’12.. 17,221 14 ~ „ 12,802 4,359 214,324
Feb., ’l3. .17,937 14 „ ~12,862 5,125 219,449
Aug., ’l3 .18,071 14 ~ ~12,862 5,209 224,658
Premiums on new shares . . 25,000 249,658
Feb., T 4. .19,931 14p.c.= 14,700 5,231 254,889
Aug., ’14.. 18,188 14 „ ~14,700 3,488 258,377
In its desire to save the Empire or show
Ma how prepared it was to hang the expense
so long as it could be loyal, the Commercial
of Tasmania invested largely in Consols. In
August, 1909, the item stood thus: “£160.000
British Consols (ill £B2 10s., £132,000.”
Twelve months ago it was: “£160,000 British
Consols (Qi £72, £115,200” —which meant
that in four years the bank had made a loss
of £17.000 on its investment. Then it sold
£60,000 (face value), and that and a further
drop in the market value have brought the
item down to “£lOO,OOO British Consols
£7O, £70,000.” The result is that: the bank
is continually finding it necessary to write
off losses on this account, and profits are
shown in the table after the deductions have
been made. For the past six months £2OOO
goes into the sink ; no losses were made for
the previous two half-years, but £BOOO was
lopped off in Feb. 1913. The only conclu-
sion is that British Consols are a very poor
investment.
In spite of this profits are at the excellent
rate of £8 p.c. per annum on capital and
reserves combined. Of course a bank could
show such a rate with ease if it was pre-
pared to take very considerable risks, but
the Commercial of Tasmania is not guilty
of that, as this comparison will show: —
Aug., 1913. Aua., 1914.
Notes and bills .. £6,624 £5,440 Dec. £1,184
Deposits .. 2,018,728 1,865,370 Dec. 153,358
Liquid assets . . 779,761 698,887 Dee. 80,874
Advances .. 1,604,160 1,587,478 Dec. 16 682
Premises . . 53,952 57,521 Inc. 3!569
The capital is very modest —only £200,000 —
but there are fine reserves. So that liabili-
ties, though large in comparison with capi-
tal. are at the rate of only £4 Is. 7d. to
each £1 capital and reserves combined—
a very favorable position with which to
face troublous times. Moreover, of these
liabilities (deposits, notes and bills) the bank
holds 37.3 p.c. in liquid form. Liquid assets
are not as fine as they used to be, no doubt
on account of the sale of Consols, and the
depreciation in value of the present holding.
The decrease in advances is welcome, for the
amount was, and still is, a little larger than
present conditions justify. But the busi-
ness is almost entirely confined to Tasmania
(there are no branches outside the island),
so that Australian droughts and poor wool
clips leave it practically unmoved. If the
advances are watched there should be as
little need to worry as there is with the
rest of Australian banks at the present time.
* * * *
The People’s Prudential Assurance
Co. (Sydney) .
Expenses Total Assur-
and Divi- Out- ance
Aug., Income. Claims, (lends, goings. Fund.
1901 .-. £12,50(1 £5019 £6,537 £11,556 £2,831
190! . . 12,684 4454 6,706 11,190 4,325
1904 . . 13,425 5273 6,659 11,962 6,788
1905 . . 13,956 5467 7,081 12,548 7,196
1906 . . 14,738 5871 7,060 12,931 9,003
1907 .. 15,919 6291 7,401 13,692 11,230
1908 . . 17,796 7041 8,094 15,135 13,891
1909 . . 18,644 7418 8,375 15,793 16,742
1910 .. 19,580 8291 8,443 10,734 19,594
1911 .. 21,165 5737 8,997 17,734 23,025
1912 .. 22,389 8144 9,633 17,777 27,637
1913 .. 24,070 8996 10,202 19,198 32,509
1914 .. 25.252 9049 11,544 20,593 37,168
For the most part you get here the
insurance that you can’t get anywhere
else. The co. deals in odds and ends.
The largest item under the heading
of claims is “money paid to the
medical profession and chemists for profes-
sional attention and medicine to members
and their families.” The People’s Pruden-
tial is, in short, an old-fashioned “lodge,”
with modern trimmings to it. Premiums
are in nearly all. cases so much per week,
and. generally speaking, the insurer could
do better with the best of the established
friendly societies which are nowadays under
the control of a Government actuary.
Unfortunately there are tens of thousands
of men who stand off the lodges, and the
modern labor union has little time for the
sick benefit branch which the old unions
featured. This society, and others like it,
go out and compel these people to come in—
or it may be that the missus comes in on
behalf of the family unknown to the “old
man.” Naturally, under such circumstances
expenses are very heavy. This table shows
what the outgoings, apart from claims,
amount to in proportion to the total income:
1906 .. £47 18 0 p.c. 1911 .. £42 10 2 p.c.
1907 . . 46 9 9 „ 1912 . . 43 0 6 „
1908 . . 45 9 8 „ 1913 . . 42 7 8 ~
1909 . . 44 18 4 ~ 1914 . . 45 14 8 „
1910 . . 43 2 2 „
The figures for the past year show an in-
crease, but that is due to a special dividend
to the shareholders. The capital is £lO,OOO,
on which 61 p.c. is usually paid. In the
past year an extra payment of 10 p.c. was
made, being excused by the report of the
consulting actuary. Altogether, it is a poor
sort of insurance that is offered; satisfac-
tory insurance couldn’t possibly be forthcom-
ing from any office which habitually con-
sumes 45 p.c. or thereabouts of the premium
and other income, and leaves only 55 p.c.
available for claims. The least unsatisfac-
tory business done is probably in the
Ordinary class, where a policy for as little
as £25 may be taken out. Still, if a person
is thrifty enough to persist with an Ordinary
policy, involving only quarterly payments,
if will in most cases pay him to consider
whether this office can offer advantages
equal to those with a lower expense rate.
The Denti.iquin and Moama Railway
Co. (N.S.W.) :
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
•Tune, 1906 .. £1)43 24 ]>.c. = £1250 £41,651
Dec., 1906 .. 6515 5 „ ~ 2500 45,666
June, 1907 . . 2189 5 „ „ 2500 45,355
Dec., 1907 . . 6863 5 ~ „ 2500 49,718
June, 1908 .. 2812 5 „ ~ 2500 50,030
Dec., 1908 . . 4700 5 ~ „ 2500 52,230
June, 1909 . . 1321 5 „ ~ 2500 51,051
Dec.', 1909 . . 5431 5 „ „ 2500 53,982
June, 1910 . . 1797 5 „ ~ 2500 53,279
Dec., 1910 . . 6808 5 „ „ 2500 57,587
June, 1911 . . 2049 5 „ ~ 2500 57,136
£25,000 of reserves transferred to capital 32,136
Dec., 1911 .. 7676 5 p.c. = 3125 36,687
June, 1912 . . 2355 5 ~ ~ 3125 35,947
Dee., 1912 . . 5006 5 ~ „ 3125 37,888
June, 1913 . . 2450 5 „ ~ 3125 37,213
Dec., 1913 . . 9101 7. „ ~ 4375 41,939
June, 1914 . . 3006 5 ~ ~ 4125 41,820
This co., which owns about 60 miles of
railway from Deniliquin in N.S.W. to
Moama on the Murray, draws its income
from the fat of the land, and the fat of the
land is available only once in 12 months.
The result is that the first half of the year,
when there’s little freight from wool and
wheat, shows only a small profit. In fact,
since the capital has been increased, the
first half of the year has not earned the
dividend once; but there is usually a pretty
handsome layby for the second portion to
even matters. During the past six months
the remaining £20.000 worth of debentures
has been paid off, and the result is reflected
in this comparison :—-
1.904. 1914.
Liquid assets £8,085 £10,156
Liabilities . . . . . . 31,461 2,8.82
Excess liabilities . . £23,376
Excess assets . . £7,274
It is a fine achievement, and speaks well
for the N.S.W. back country and for the
management. In 10 years the co. has added
£30,050 to the surplus of liquid assets, after
paying the regular dividends and carrying
out the heavy repairs and renewals which a
railway line and rolling stock demand. And
in addition to that £30,000 worth of
debentures have been paid off. Whether the
co.’s story will be quite as cheerful for the
next 12 months is exceedingly doubtful. The
Riverina has had a particularly dry time,
and in many cases the crops are a failure.
More than that, the scarcity of feed for
sheep has seriously affected the wool-clip,
and.most of the wool that has been taken
off is waiting in the station sheds for a
market. And a prolonged dry spell about
this time of the year goes further than that,
and tells on the lambing. So that the fol-
k-wing year’s clip is affected as well. But
Australia’s recuperative powers are so well
known that there should be no need to
worry about any permanent disablement of


In. Choosing an Executor
it is most important to look for
EXPERT KNOWLEDGE, SECURITY AND
ECONOMICAL MANAGEMENT.
These can best be obtained bv appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (LIMITED)
The LARGEST and STRONGEST
Trustee Company in Australasia.
It has been established 28 years, and has
administered thousands of Estates.
The Security is Undoubted, and the
Charges Fixed and Low.
Write for Booklet giving- full information.
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Asst. Mgr.
KYNOCH
SUCTION GAS ENGINES
and PRODUCER PLANTS
BRITISH THROOGHODT
Works: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND.
Head Office for Australasia—
Scottish House, 90 William St., Melbourne.
SYDNEY. ADELAIDE. PERTH.
Economy is tin 1 order of the day—but you cannot
lengthen your work days ; still you can accomplish
more work in the same time by adopting the right
help. Secure the right help for your mine or factory
—equip all your drives with “Pioneer,” the all-
Australian leather belting—the belting that will
transmit every ounce of power your machines
generate—because of its perfect gripping and non-
slipping. “Pioneer” is made from the centre cuts of
flawless Australian ox hides which are tanned in our
own tannery and built up with best materials and
workmanship in the big “Pioneer” factory. “Pioneer
works and brings big profits in mines, power stations,
factories, sugar and timber mills, and it has been
awarded all the Imperial, State and Federal depart-
ment contracts for 1914-15. Let it work for you.
Ask our nearest office to send you samples, prices and
help on your power-transmission problems. “Pioneer”
is made only by J. C. f.udowici & Son Ltd.,
“Pioneer” Works, 117 York Street, Sydney (opp. Q. V.
Markets) ; and sold in Victoria by Geo. Russell
P’t’v, Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne; in South
Australia by .1. McKell. Timpson Street, Port Adel-
aide; in Queensland by Queensland Machinery Co.
Ltd., Brisbane; in W. Australia by Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth; in Broken Hill by Geo. C.
Dempster, Argent Street.*
* * * *
C. A. Parsons & Co. Ltd., Neweastle-on-Tyne, are
now making their geared turbines whereby the
Parsons’ Steam Turbine may be geared to a slow-
running dynamo, pump, etc. Sets up to 4000 k.w.
are already running, and a large geared turbo pump-
ing set is shortly arriving for the Metropolitan Board
of Water Supply and Sewerage, Sydney. High
efficiency is secured and the economy of (he high-
speed turbine is still maintained. The Union
steamer Maheno has recently been re-engined and fitted
with geared turbines, and numerous other boats are
now running. Solo agents. William Adams and Com-
pany Limited, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and
Perth.*
* * * *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 0000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. Cd. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. 10(1. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to Gs. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2s. 3d.
per cub. yard, 'this result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stonccrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [2
Extract from Commercial Worm), London, 15tli
November, 1913: “Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society Limited.!—Most life offices have a certain
individuality of their own, or some special feature
which is impressed upon us whenever we look into
their affairs, and in the case of the Colonial Mutual
it would perhaps be correct to say that enterprise and
activity are the characteristics chiefly in evidence.”* [1
PIONEER AYOOD PIPE is the pressure pipe that
gives the. maximum capacity for the minimum out-
lay. It is manufactured in all sizes, from 3 inches
to 14 feet diameter. Catalogue from The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Contractors to all State Govern-
ments, 57 York Street, Sydney (Head Office).*
* * * *
Mr. R. O’Hara, Glen limes, writes: “I have much
pleasure in advising you that I have now used the
34-b.h.p. Hornsby Stationary Oil Engine for the
past eight seasons, shearing over 130,000 sheep, some
of the shearers tallying over 200 sheep per day, the
average 1654 per man. During the whole time T
have had the engine in use it has never given the
slightest trouble, and not a moment has been lost,
the shearers stating that they have never experienced
such a smooth-running engine.”—R. Hornsby & Sons,
Ltd.. Melbourne, Svdney, Brisbane.* n
* * ■* *
J. Malcolm Newman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building. Jamieson Street,
Sydney.*
* * * «
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh Street.
Sydney. *
Mining and assay requisites can he procured at
lowest rates from Felton. Grinnvade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, hnlnnces, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modem scientific appliances kept in stock’
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Henri
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
Minn managers when requiring new Steam Boilers
are invited to communicate with Babcock & Wilcox,
Ltd., who have supplied their Patent Safety Water-
tube Boilers to the majority of leading mines in
Australia.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained
Coi.mson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, ami
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to 11. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain; weight; pocket transits; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan's crucibles: chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
companies that are hit up by the drought.
And the Deniliquin and Moama Co. is in a
good position to stand some rough treat-
ment.
B. 11. Proprietary, in its four-weekly
return to September 23, shows a heavy
decline in lead and silver. The total return
is 238,7860 z. silver and 3934 tons lead. The
lead output for the 16 weeks to September
23 was 19,715 tons, which is somewhat
lower than the usual average of 1500 tons
per week.
Although Australia is an important pro-
ducer of tin oxide assaying up to 75 p.c.
pure tin, it continues to import very large
quantities of tin plate to make its billycan
and fish tin. The bill last year ran into
£530,000. The export of tin from Tasmania
—our most important producer—was 4010
tons, value £531.983. Until quite recently
our scrap tin plate was carefully collected
and shipped back to Europe. There is little
difficulty in manufacturing a tin plate on
our own account, and there is still less diffi-
culty in smelting tin oxide, unless we delib-
erately create difficulties, as is frequently
done. For instance, freight from one State
to another is often made ridiculously high.
Thus we find N.S.W. coke raised to a pro-
hibitive price at Chillagoe or Cloncurry.
while German coke has actually been landed
and used at Mount Morgan.
* * * *
“Pickhandle” : The interest in the war has
been overshadowed locally by the discovery
of a rich quartz vein, at the tin-field, some
12 miles from Fifield (N.S.W.). One shaft
14ft. deep, the only sinking done so far,
shows the vein to have widened from Sin. on
surface to 15in. at 14ft. Assays (private
and Mines Department) show from 70oz. to
109 oz. to ton, with a trace of antimony ; but
it is very probable that these samples were
picked. The country is slate, and the strike
of reef N.E. by S.W., with an easterly under-
lay. Fifty yards to the east of this vein is
another with the same underlay and same
strike, carrying a fair percentage of tin, and
about the same width. There is a sporting
chance of this part of the country turning
out a few fair reefs. About 14 miles south
of this find on the same belt of country a
reef has been working for about two years.
The shaft is down 123 ft., showing 2ft. of
nice clean stone, with black slate walls, in
settled country. Crushings are going between
one and two ounces per ton.
* -X- * *
Last half-year Wallaroo and Moonta
(S.A.) sold 3088 tons of copper at an aver-
age* of £63 10s. 4d. per ton, and was able to
hand its shareholders dividends aggregating
£24,000 (two distributions of Is. 6d.). Cost
of production was approximately £56 per
ton. The co., however, also produced 2927
tons of sulphuric acid, which is becoming an
important commodity in connection with the
manufacture of superphosphates. If this old
concern can continue to produce 3000 tons of
copper per half-year a profit of £8 per ton
is required to pay 3s. per share (£24,000).
Obviously that rate of profit is impossible
with electrolytic copper selling at £55, unless
of course the cost of producing copper can
be reduced. There are 160,000 shares, so a
Is. dividend takes £BOOO. As a contrast.
Mount Morgan requires a profit of £50.000
to hand out Is. per share.
Cocks Pioneer, Eldorado (Tic.), having
;, nough cash to get going, is moving its big
plant down to the paddock cleaned out by
the old dredge. But for the war there would
have been a share flutter over this ; as it is,
the bulls have to carry a heavy load of scrip.
On the work of the old co. the ground should
be worth about Is. 6d. per cub. yard, so
that a good margin of profit seems likelv, pro-
vided the block of the gutter to be washed
holds up to the average. About a third of
the proceeds are represented by tin, and with
the metal close on £l3O per ton profits may
be whittled down. The old co.. when paying-
dividends higher up the creek, had tin at a
lower price, so with the new plant doing
cheaper work there isn’t much to worry over
regarding this factor.
* * * *
On averages, Duke Extended, Maryborough
(Vic.), ought to do better. It has been get-
ting 19dwt. dirt, which in a mine with
ground fairly well drained and a decent-sized
lead should spell fine dividends. But patchy
wash and heavy costs keep the co. from
scoring. Since the lead swerved off to the
north-west across the combs of the country
there has been -nothing but a dreary hunt
after a decent-sized field of wash. The pre-
sent co. has spent £37,000 to get £10,001) of
gold, and its predecessors did even worse.
Old hands like Sam Body held that past
work was on a break-away of the lead. The
Board, after going away to the nor’-west,
have come to the same conclusion. They are
helped there by work done off C and D rises,
which give some of the best prospects met
with since present shareholders got on the
job. But a lot more has to be done to
materialise these prospects. To raise the
wind the directors have turned their atten-
tion to the slimes. They refused one offer
for them, and don’t like to sell unless there’s
a fair amount of cash forthcoming—anil
cash isn’t at all plentiful.
* * * *
The Scottish Gympie (Q.) can fairly claim
to ho the biggest quartz-leader formation in
the State, and its huge face at No. 5 level
proved interesting to a partv of the British
scientists. Luckily the Scottish was at its
best, for S2OO tons sent to the mill in August
had returned 26930 z., averaging 6|dwt. It
is certainly the lowest-grade Queensland mine
which pays regular dividends. No. 3 North
Columbia crushed 702 tons for 3590 z.; Colum-
bia Consolidated 70 tons for 183 oz.; and No. 1
N. Smithfield 156 tons for 530 z. smelted gold.
Total from the field in August was 11.756
tons for 46030 z.; value, £16.147. The re-
duced average from No. 3 Columbia is due
to disturbed country in the block of ground
being operated on.
The effort of Mount Morgan to concentrate
low-grade silicious copper ore appears to have
met with considerable success. The mill has
now been in commission 12 weeks. During
this period 14,070 tons of crude ore have been
treated for 4575 tons of concentrates con-
taining approximately 306 tons of pure
copper and 3118 oz. of fine gold, which aver-
ages 2.10 p.c. copper and 4.35dwt. gold, an
extraction worth between 395. and 40s. per
ton. A trifle over lOoz. of gold, worth £42,
is saved with every ton of copper, which com-
pares with the usual furnace extraction of
12oz. gold per ton of base metal. Obviously
the mill is either treating stuff of low-gold
value or is saving a smaller proportion of
the yellow than of the red metal. It is
curious that a close recovery of gold is some-
times more difficult than one of copper, but
the experience gained at the Great Fitzroy
mill seemed to confirm that view, and at
Broken Hill the mineral separation process
makes a closer recovery of lead than it does
of silver. Mill slimes in very fine mineral
particles carry off more precious metal than
coarse tailings do.
Outwardly, at any rate, Ilampden Clon-
curry (Q.) lias considerable latent strength,
for it has been extracting on an average
from 9 p.c. to 10 p.c. copper from crude ore,
and reserves are being added to by the
development of a rich shoot of copper at the
700 ft. level in the Duchess mine. Shares have
slumped because there is little prospect of a
dividend'for a considerable time, and because
the co.’s scattered properties will undoubtedly
involve a big expenditure of capital for rail-
way construction and development. Pro-
spects below 200 ft. at the Trekelano and
Answer mines are poor and far too much
vague talk has been indulged in about that
expensive purchase, the MacGregor. ►Smelt-
ing should become more economical because
large quantities of limestone are available,
containing from 4 p.c. to 1 p.c. copper. Hamp-
den, with rich 10 p.c. ore, is able to pay fair
w r ages and contract rates, and still produce
blister copper below £4O per ton.
EARLE HERMANN , at Sydney Centra!
Police Court.
Tin and copper in N.Q. are almost at a
standstill, in spite of the advances offered
by storekeepers and others. The smaller
mines had a hard enough struggle to keep
going with full payment, and cannot afford
to accept the 60s. and less offered in advance.
The Oardross copper mines, the newly-con-
structed Tommy Burns and the Prince Alfred
Tin Cos. have closed down. The Gilmore tin
mines have ceased crushing, and are stacking
the ore, but this is expected to stop soim.
Most of the miners have taken on prospecting
for gold, as this metal is marketable under
any conditions. The Vulcan Tin Aline had
hard luck, as they had just found the lung-
looked-for extension of the 550 ft. level at
1240 ft. Gold is receiving an impetus on
account of these stoppages. Also, despite
rumors to the contrary, molybdenite is in
demand, and is now quoted at £OOO per ton.
Evident]v Germany hasn’t got the monopoly
there. Both Feigner's and the Atherton Co.
(late Black Cat) are tearing as much out as
possible. Leisner’s has proved beyond doubt
that molybdenite does live to a depth, pre-
viously a matter of contention, and the town
of Wolfram should prosper thereby.
If the war-tax scheme of the Scaddan
Ministry is endorsed by the voters of W.A.
it will ' hit up the big mining cos. of the
State. Adelaide is grizzling over the fear
that Tvanhoes and Mararoas will have to
part up 15 p.c. out of income in addition to
the present dividend tax. Melbourne doesn’t
even tremble, because it: #on’t think seri-
ously of Westralia where mining is con-
cerned. Still a 15 p.c. call on the revenue
of Edna Mays would meet a lot of bear
differences.
I‘rincipal Westraiian results for August:
Revenue. Profit. Value
Tonnage. 6 £ lier ton.
Great Boulder .. 19,220 49,972 28,55 S 52/-
Ivanhoe .. .. 19,709 31,408 10,008 31/10
Edna May .. .. 2,357 11,576 7,977 97/-
Kalgurli 10,930 21,630 9,180 39/7
Golden Horseshoe .. 28,063 35,071 3,2.02 25/-
Lake View and Star. . 15,620 21,388 3,609 22/11
Sons of Gwalia .. 13,270 20,692 5,174 31/2
Associated . . 10,954 12,768 965 23/4
South Kalgurli . . 9,911 11,383 1,176 23/-
Boulder Perseverance 20,804 24,084 4,550 23/2
Oroya Links .. 12,500 12,615 1,903 20/2
Queen of the Hills 4,170 6,084 1,592 29/2
Fenian .. .. 3,098 9,513 4,939 61/3
Mararoa . . . . 2,690 4,854 * 30/1
Kyarra . . . . 1,050 3,446 1,312 65/8
Lake View Consols .. 8,9281 1,307 104 2/11
Yuanmi .. .. 4,810 t 7.660 154 31/8
North Ivalgurli .. 1,150 1,703 29/8
Golden Ridge . . 2,074 3,633 481 27/2
Commodore . . 750 1,075 74 28/8
Ida H... .. 1,431 4,604 412 64/4
Menzies Consols .. 2,303 4,792 569 41/8
Associated Northern 991 3,000§
Bullfinch Prop. . . 6,464 8,956 27/9
boss.
Mountain Queen .. 3,141 2,465 141 15/8
*Owing to the usual slowness of co. in making up
costs the net surplus was not available when this
table was compiled, fold tailings, t Mill was com-
pelled to stop in June on account of an argument
over the contract question between the co. and its
employees, and did not start again until August 12.
from the treatment of 7477 tons of accumu-
lated tailings and 991 tons of ore at the Iron Duke
(Kalsroorlie) lease.- No costs are given but those
at tlie Victorious lease, Ora Banda, ineluding- outlay
on new sulphide plant, totalled .£3255.
vr . vr * *
Commodore (W.A.) has admirers who say
in one long breath that its position is much
better than represented by the last quoted
price of shares, and that there is sufficient
cash now in hand to pay a Is. div. and leave
something over to go on with. For some
time the co. has, by dribs and drabs, been
adding to its bank balance, and, in addition,
the accumulated tailings must now amount to
a big asset. Erratic values and the putting
of the market up and down every now and
then to the detriment of the public, have,
however, told against the stock very consider-
ably, and caused it to be regarded with a
good deal of doubt and suspicion. And until
it turns over a new leaf in this respect and
covers a page or two with good results, the
feeling against it: isn’t likely to change.
In an alluring tone the Augusta (W.A.)
announces the discovery of another rich
vein, and adds that “the last firing dis-
closed stone similar to that mailed,” which
seems to indicate that some stuff showing
gold has been sent along for the Board to
look at. Something also is said about
values being maintained and going down,
but the same thing has been said so often
in the past regarding other veins which did
the other thing that it is only reasonable
to expect that something similar will hap-
pen in this case. As has been said here
over and over again, the Augusta has seen
its best days, and will break the back of any
co. that attempts to make money out of it.
Associated Northern has been a bit down
in the mouth lately for two reasons, (1)
delay in the delivery of machinery for the
Victorious sulphide plant, and (2) difficulty
in financing on account of the war. Mat-
ters. however, have to some extent now
been righted. The long-looked-and-wished-
for plant is on the water, and the manage-
ment is preparing to get a move on with its
erection directly it arrives. In the mean-
time, a monthly expenditure of £3OOO-odd
is being financed, and the co. hopes in a
few months to he again treating Victorious
ore and making profits.
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) made sev-
eral thousands during the six months ended
.Tune 30, and if the profit for the second
half of the year is anywhere near as good
as that of the first, there is every chance of
a small dividend. Last year the net pi’ofif,
after wiping off development and deprecia-
tion, was £6807, which, added to the
£57,747 brought forward, increased the
available balance to £64.644.
* * It *
Associated (W.A.) now claims to have
liquid assets equal to 4s. Bd. a share, a mine
at Ivalgoorlie and two options in Canada.
The value placed on the liquid resources
may be all right, but the mine has absolutely
no prospects below the No. 19 level. It
certainly has a large area of patchy ore-
bearing ground from that point to the sur-
face, and the management is hopeful that
current work will enable last year’s results
to be maintained during the ensuing 12
months. In a recent report on the
property Dr. Maclaren opines that, with
careful exploration of this ground, the mi:;e
will keep up its current yield for at least
two years, and, with good fortune, even
longer. The options mentioned are the
Keeley and North Thompson. Both are
declared by experts to have a very fair
chance of becoming successful producers.
Melbourne investors are nibbling at the
Empress and Galtee Moore (W.A.), and
may swallow the bait. Both mines are at
Lonnonville, on the Murchison field, and to
date have produced between them nearly
£60.000 worth of gold. Last year the Em-
press was under offer to someone con-
nected with the Greenfinch, but the deal
fell through. Since then it has yielded
several thousand pounds, and a few thou-
sand more are said to be in sight.
Bullrush (W.A.) is having some trouble
in getting suitable underground labor for its
hitherto unprofitable Royal Standard mine.
About, a month ago the State Labor
Bureau was asked to engage six machine
men. but it was unable to find one. Then
the co. tried its luck with a half-crown advt.
This drew a number of applications, but
after those who had never seen or worked a
drill had been told to get, only 13 Britons
and two Dagoes remained. Six of these
mustered up courage to journey to the mine,
but five were fired after working one shift.
00. is still looking for men, and in the
meantime is jogging along as well as it can
and feeding the mill one shift a day on ore
from driving, etc. The mine is in a very
backward state as regards development, and
it will be a long time before sufficient stone
will be available to run the treatment plant
at its full capacity.
Dividends amounting to £41,311 were paid
by the Westralian gold-producing cos.
during August, making the total for the first
eight months of the year £510,792.
. < «■ * *
Bayley’s (W.A.) has been refused further
exemption and told to get work. Co. has
managed very well during the past few
years to evade the maintenance of labor
conditions, but the Minister for Mines says
that if it doesn’t man the property within
30 days it will have to make room for some-
one else.


Charles
lleidsieckS
Vintage" 1906
GMffflMf
NE PLUS ULTRA
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
TEN YEARS OLD.
TO THE SOLDIERS.
LORD KITCHENER’S MESSAGE.
The public of Sydney has been waiting
ever since the cables came through stating
that the British Expeditionary Forces had
proceeded to France, for the full text of
Lord Kitchener’s advice to each member of
that historic company. It has now been
cabled out, and one of the chief of all sen-
tences in it, and fraught with great mean-
ing, reads: “Your duty cannot be done
unless your health is sound.”
Health to the soldier fighting for his
country, or to the civilian fighting the great
trade battles at home, is essential. A
healthy army should be a successful army,
and Captain. H. E. U. Burke, formerly of
the “Third King’s African Rifles,” British
East Africa, states that Clements Tonic is
the ideal nerve medicine for the soldier on
active service, or recuperating after severe
illness or fever. It is the medicine that has
always been to the front throughout Aus-
tralia, and its effect upon weak or sorely-
tried nerves is little short of miraculous.
All chemists and stores sell it everywhere.*
Otard Brandy
15 YEARS OLD
IS A TRUE COGNAC BRANDY,
Otard Brandy is the pure distillation of the grape,
matured for years in the f amous historic Chateau de
Cognac, where Francois 1., King of France, waa born.
This Chateau now forms the cellars and premises of
llllii MAISON OTARD-DUPUY. For sickness or
health, as a liqueur or as a beverage, there is no spirit
to equal.
OTARD (15 Year) BRANDY.
M
f ! 1
0
S 3
A/fTiA ***
:: Hi?
S S ?°°UCE Of fRW 1 ?
A
WOMEN’S
LETTERS
Sydney, September 28, 1914.
My Dear Arini, —
Melba’s concert for the Red Cross fund
packed our municipal barn to its ultimate
keyhole. At any time between 7.30 p.m. and
eight of the clock on the eventful even-
ing the Town Hall steps were congested
with traffic. After reaching the summit
of this fortification desperate women
searched valiantly for the friends or rela-
tives they had promised to meet on that
musical shore. Officials, posted as sentries
on top of this stony eyrie, drove both the
sheep and the goats before them with loud
cries of “this way for the yellow tickets —
that way for the blue tickets.” Honking
motors snorted up with our Best People,
who tried to remain calm. The astounding
outrage of seeing the herd trample the red
carpet on the steps under its feet, in a
determined effort to get inside the building,
was almost too much. Still there was
nothing for it but a shoulder-to-shoulder
struggle. Our old nobility plunged forward
—dukes, and dethroned kings, and old,
decapitated monarchs carrying their heads
under their arms, and viscounts, and aider-
men, and the ghosts of defunct dynasties,
and wholesale grocers, and universal pro-
viders, and tailors, and satraps. They all
made a breathless sortie on the main
entrance. “This way the yellow tickets,”
yelled the peri at the portal. And then,-like
the howl Of a strong postscript in its agony,
I'.e would say: “Don’t block the gangway.”
The gangway, indeed ! It was obscured and
obliterated. If all Rennenkampf’s army
had trodden on a postcard it would have
been no harder to find.
Melba, radiant in a rose-colored frock
with a film of white lace for its upper por-
tion, was in charge of the business of the
evening, which began with the National
Anthem and much shaking of tiny flags
from the audience. The organ was not
exactly tied up in a knot, but it had to be
approached respectfully under a tented awn-
ing of bunting. The Philharmonic voices
and orchestra under conductor Bradley
cheerfully bellowed the chorus of “God
Save” after Melba had lifted up her perfect
voice in the opening lines.
The Nightingale’s songs included as the
star items the Mad Scene from “Lucia” and
the Ave Maria from “Otello.” For some
reason or other, perhaps too much orchestra
in accompaniment, the famous soprano solo,
Depuis le Jour, from Charpentier’s “Louise,”
seemed to fall flat. Melba’s voice, however,
which may be called the ninth wonder of the
world (the eighth is Bruce Smith’s top hat)
is as young and fresh as ever, with the same
sweet canary-like trill in its upper no ter
when required. Half a peck of diamonds
glittered in a chain that tied up her dark
locks. This illumination moved about the
hall later on when the lady set out on a
bushranging expedition, with Mr. Marich in
charge of the cash bag. Something like £144
was collected in the first raid. Farthings
were sold at anything up to a pound or more
apiece, till Mrs. Nellie Melba mounted the
platform and auctioned the remnant. One male
bidder secured a souvenir farthing for £3O. A
lady well known as the generous possessor of
an ever-open purse, gave £lOO for another
sample of this illusive coinage. Something
like £lBOO is mentioned as the profits of the
patriotic warble.
The audience at the Melba rally consisted
of the world and his neighbor’s wife. It was
like a dressy resurrection after so much ban-
daging and socks during the past few weeks.
Governor Strickland, with two daughters, was
shadowed by Helps Wakeman and d’Apice.
The Belgian Consul Watteeuw, and the C. J.
Cullens, and the red coat of Private-Secretary
Finn were arranged in a. thin half-moon in
front of various bright and shining lights of
local Society. Even farthing dips (costly
affairs) loomed large in the offing. One reck-
less man who had been spurred on to give a
thumping sum for one of these small coins
seemed to get a wigging from his legal lady
after his purchase. But you never can tell!
Perhaps she was goading him on to hurl
another £lO to the bargain.
John Lemmone’s chief musical contribu-
tion to the Melba concert was “By the
Brook,” per medium of his magic flute.
This imitation of a forest aviary gave the
full-throated warble of a feathered choir,
from the leading soprano’s high trills to the
sleepy tones of the baby nestling who chirped
softly from the depths of a full stomach.
George Armstrong and his daintv-looking
wife, who used to be Evelyn Doyle, have
been staying in this hamlet while mamma
Melba shook up the Red Cross funds.
Mrs. Mayoress Richards is a very hurried
woman in these stirring times. She gyrates
between sewing circles where miles of
material are sliced up for garments and
stitched with incredible haste, and countless
committee meetings. The three-volume
speeches that used to meander over “the
ayes have it” or#the “noes will eat their best
hats before they’ll adopt resolution 1728”
have fainted away before the rush for results.
A preliminary flutter round the notion of a
show for the Alexandra Hospital for Sick
Children occurred in the twilight of the
Town Hall vestibule the other afternoon. The
idea and the lantern-slides belong to Walter
Bentley. The slides are to show a continu-
ous reproduction of the famous peasant
Passion play at Oberammergau. October 20
is the date mentioned for this event. Mrs.
Richards, in the chair, had as outpost secre-
tary Moss of the said hospital. This haven
for small sufferers is feeling rather hollow in
its finances, and it clamors for a bit of your
substance to help it along.
The Bavarian village of Oberammergau
breaks out every 10 years in the Passion
Play, which has made it famous. The next
effort is due in 1920. The long-drawn-out
performance, nine hours at a time, meanders
through many Sundays in summer weather,
and keeps about 700 village actors to the
fore. Just now the usual business of carv-
ing saints’ images is likely to be changed
for a perfunctory battle-cry, for it is very
subdued applause that the South German
gives for his Prussian rulers. The popular
ex-Consul-General Ivilliani was a Bavarian,
by the way.
The Battle of Flowers for the Red War
Socks fund has been put off till October 17.
This gives the lady combatants more time to
sharpen their wits for the struggle, and it
gets the carnival out of the way of the first
race meeting on October 3.
Australians in Europe, Mr. and Mrs. J. W.
Styles and daughter Marjorie, had an agi-
tated flight from Norway. Norwegian papers
thundered with alleged British defeats on
sea and land. The Styles family contrived,
with considerable luck and the help of a few
friendly passengers, to creep aboard a craft
called the Irma as stowaways. It
was a time when ship accommodation
was so scarce that even kings hid
among the coals in order to secure a
passage. The voyage was full of thrills. After
nearly bumping into a gunboat, which turned
out to be Norwegian, and then lurching into
a gang of cruisers—later diagnosed as British
—the flurried Irma bounded forward for
North Britain, and finally arrived with a
whole hull at Newcastle.
A Bishop of London, early in the excite-
ment of the European uproar, advised all
patriotic citizens to eat only two good meals
a day—instead of three. The uncounted
thousands in that big hive, who are unable
to eat even one good meal a day in time of
peace, will unfortunately have to take an
extra dose of Thames Embankment during
the present clash of arms. A Bishop’s notion
of economy has a comfortable port-wine
flavor, good for wealthy aldermen in the old
city of Gog and Magog, but not applicable to
the Habitually Starved.
The horticultural Miss Brace went off by
Melbourne express to board the Otway for
London. In her strong right hand she firmly
gripped a handsome brown leather suit-case.
This trophy had been handed over to her a
day or two before from the Women’s Horti-
cultural Guild Council. The Guild will
endeavor to keep its garden clippers in good
repair till its hon. organising secretary comes
back to Australian soil.
Government Analyst E. A. Mann (West-
ralia), who was booked to come back by
the Otranto, was glad to get a bunk on the
Beltana. The former craft was taken by
the Bull Government. It is wonderful how
many things a Government takes when it is
in a hurry.
General Finn has a pleasant memory and
some photos of the Fanning Island cable
station, where the enemy’s cruiser Nurnberg
recently left its P.P.C. card or grappling-
hook. On the -way to Vancouver in the
Aorangi, about eight years ago, soldier Finn
had a glimpse of some of the inhabitants.
Amongst them were Dr. Trensch and his
bride (still resident there), who had shortly
before had an adventurous landing. The
long swish of the Pacific surf washed over-
board the doctor’s case of surgical instru-
ments and his wife’s piano and some etcet-
eras. In spite of this episode they were
prepared to smile on life from the lonely
islet which has been their home ever since.
Round it is a horseshoe-shaped atoll. The
tiny marine architects who build cathedrals
and palaces out of coral have obligingly left
an opening for boats.
The rumor that Macarthur Onslow,
M.L.A., was buckling on his avmor and
trying his trusty lance and climbing on to
his battle-steed, is said to be entirely with-
out foundation.
Included in the Territorial 7th battalion
is a Maorilander, W. R. Bridger, who
chanced to be in England. He used to be
managing director of Cudley, Bridger and
Co., Wellington. The sporting Bridger got
his taste for militia work in a Dunedin
Engineer Corps.
Mr. W. R. Morris, of the Wellington
(M.L.) Stamp and Swear department, came
back from the United States in the Sonoma.
The Maorilander’s official mission to the
International Postal Conference at Madrid
was rudely knocked to bits by the fact that
Europe wasn’t speaking to each other, so
he came back without getting beyond Dollar-
land. With him, as a first aid to foreign
tongues, went, and returned, Mr. R. H.
Hooper, a Wellington man who had been
to Madrid before, and knew its pride and
pomp and its money and its liquors. All
this traveller’s lore, unfortunately, went up
in thin air in New York.
Dorothy Stephen was quietly wed to her
British Scientist, Dr. George Simpson, the
other day. The bride’s cousin was the Cap-
tain Douglas Lucas-Tooth who fell in a
French frontier-combat a week or so ago.
In any case, the knot-tying would not
have been a frilly affair, as the girl hasn’t
the usual modern damsel’s love of a big
white satin dress-parade, with the parson as
referee. There wasn’t even a wedge of
w’edding cake for the bridesmaids to dream
on, after the event. Dorothy Jane’s
mamma, Mrs. C. B. Stephen, intimated that
there would be afternoon tea at tlu 1 parental
nest, so the company set forth to Woollahra
Point to hurl its congratulations on a popu-
lar girl and her newly-acquired Streak of
“Learning. The Simpsons will plunge into
domestic life on the Simla heights, where
the groom is a Government weather prophet.
C. E. W. Bean, a leading Sydney journal-
ist who is responsible for those virile publica-
tions, “On the Wool Track” and “Flagships
Three.” is the chosen of the A.J.A. ballot for
the billet of Australian war correspondent,
lie’s going to Ihe ft ay with our khaki exodus.
Concerning the latter Melbourne seems to be
getting far more for its money in the matter
of seeing the stuff it is shipping overseas.
Victorian troops have actually made a formal
march through the local metropolis.
The Madeline Collins’ good-bye concert in
the Town Hall was a parting benediction to
a youthful soprano of unusual promise.
Madeline, as a pupil of St. Vincent’s College,,
captured a Royal Academy of Music Scholar-
ship. The upset of things in general has
tamed the public interest in this youngster’s
prospects of a notable career, if the necessary
cash is forthcoming to push it along. Hence
the difficulties of a committee which had to
wrestle with the languid ear the public turns
to anything but martial news just now. The
girl has been making precocious concert
appearances in town and country for some
months. A tendency to strain the liquid
sweetness of her top notes is the result. So
small a damage, at 17 or thereabouts, can
easily be repaired when said voice is laid
up in dock, so to speak. Hair-
bows, belonging to a phalanx of schoolgirls,
waggled with excitement when Madeline’s
soprano climbed the lofty heights of “Ocean!
Thou Mighty Monster!” Wild enthusiasm,
flowers and a solid-looking box were included
in the applause. The Holmans, Mrs. Trefle,
Mrs. David Hall, Mrs. Bamfiekl and Mrs.
Hogan were first aids to the warbler's concert
committee. May Summerbelle’s spirited com-
position, “So Long”—a dashing march tune
set to Australian khaki verse by John Barr
—was sung by Sid Macdonald with imme-
diate success. Alicia Nolan, during most of
the evening, was strongly entrenched at the
keyboard as accompanist.
Dr. Richard Arthur is on the trail of any
Australian women who want to mother Bel-
gian orphans. Offers are already flowing in,
and it is quite likely that hundreds of little
foreigners, guaranteed sound in wind and
limb, will be added to N.S.W. population
during the next 12 months. It is wiser to
catch your infant young. The one who is
secured at the age of 18 may be less adapt-
able. The idea seems a sounder one than
the imported widow hobby. British and
French orphans, though less fashionable, for
the moment, than King Albert’s toddling
subjects, are also included in this juvenile
immigration side-line.
Melba, looking five-and-twenty, or there-
abouts, chatted about Belgium the other
morning. “It is a special grief to me to
think of the destruction of a country asso-
ciated with the early days of my profes-
sional career. In Brussels I made my d€but
in opera, and I’ve sung in Liege and Ghent.
It’s all so beautiful —or was a few weeks
ago—and so familiar. Let us talk of some-
thing else! What do you think of this?
A Redfern business man, Mr. Nairn, sent
me a little pile of farthings. He thought
I might sell them at fancy prices at my
concert. Good idea, isn’t it? I am so
glad to be back amongst my own people
while all this trouble is going on, and think
I’ll stay quietly, pottering about my garden
at Lilydale till it’s all over. America?
Yes, I’ve had offers to sing there again, but
I think I’ll just stay in Australia for the
next —well, we can’t make plans very far
ahead just now.”
The Hugh Ward picnic to Melba last
week was a small two-car family affair.
The Arthur Allens, the George Armstrong
duet, .). Lemmone and one or two others
whizzea off to Barrenjoey on a gorgeous day
of blue and gold and dust, to ruralise by
the blustering sea shore.
Just now the newsgetter is more or less
out of business. Any news worth getting,
that may suddenly explode under your X-ray
glance would be immediately chopped out ot
print, and flung into the deepest waste-
paper donjon keep. With a stifled feeling of
having something heavy on my head, 1 ven-
ture to tell you, Arini, that there’s been a
fine display of troopships round some of our
wharves. Armed to the teeth, sentries pace
to and fro, and iron gates guard even the
whereabouts of the meat tins. No prying
eye can see where the beer is holding its
own against huge cases of tea and coffee.
Motors were kicking up a fine dust round the
troopship arena on Saturday afternoon, and
relatives of Tommy Cornstalk (this helpful
name is stolen from Jack Abbott) were
allowed to make a gingerly ascent of gang-
ways to kiss him goodbye under the glance
of armed warriors. The business-like
numbers painted on the great hulls of the
ships and the clank of hammers on a holiday
afternoon, gave a fierce impression of zeal
and energy and hurry and struggle and
resolution and other things that are crowded
out through lack of space. I would like to
put them all in, but though the spirit is
willing the compositor is weak.
Word drops in that (he Tom Hughes'
eldest son Roger has plighted his troth to
a fair damsel named Maher, a niece of the
well-known medico of that name. Roger,
who still abides under the picturesque
parental roof of Cranbrook Cottage (Rose
Bay), is a fifth-year medical student.
Grace Watson, formerly an Australian
shepherdess who rounded up stray political
lambs of the feminine persuasion in Vic-
toria, writes from London. “A recruiting
station has been opened at St. Martin's
Church, near the Coliseum. From my office
window I can see hundreds and hundreds of
men, two deep, waiting to enlist.—A rigid
censorship is ruling the newspapers, but
one gets information in unexpected ways.
A porter at Paddington station told me his
son was in Belgium with the Army Medical
Corps. At this time the general public only
suspected that British troops were quietly
on the way to that harassed country. One
London evening paper fell in badly with its
war news. It brought out a special edition
at 9 a.m. stating that the fleet in the North
Sea had sunk 19 German ships. The
Admiralty contradicted it at once. The
wrath of the city was so great over this
sensational yarn that even staid business
men were threatening to ‘smash the office.’ ”
The Major-General Davies, C. 8., who
slated the slovenly appearance of the Eton
College Training Corps, just before the blaze
in Europe, is a Maorilander now in the
Imperial Service. He rose from the ranks,
so he knows every tag in the soldier’s kit.
Davies joined the Hawera (M.L.) Mounted
Rifles as a private. From this jump off he
forged his way to a captaincy, went to the
South African war, made a glittering record,
and later on became Inspector-General of
the Auckland district. Now he bosses the
Sixth Infantry Brigade at Aldershot, and
goes to the fight as Brigadier-General Davies.
Mrs. John Barlow is parting with a son
for the European uproar this week.
The Belgian Relief clothing depot (2ssa
George-street) is prepared to take the
clothes off your back, or your last tram-
fare, for the Cause. Already it has sent
64 bales of wearing apparel to the little
country which staked its last garment on the
war and hasn’t yet got the pledge back. As it
takes about five bales to make a ton, you
can reckon the total for yourself. This
week another 20 bales will be stowed away
in the hold of an outgoing steamer. Miss
Evans, in charge of a workroom where sew-
ing machines click furiously all day, will be
delighted to pounce on your raw materials,
or your now-discarded winter clothes. A
sub-Belgian Consul was treading warily
amongst an attractive display of new clothes
for destitute infants the other afternoon.
Mrs. Ninian Thomnsori. Mrs. Withers (secre-
tary and treasurer) and Mrs. Lindsay strenu-
ously buttress the Cause from morn till eve.
Ex-Governor Brassey, who was chiefly
noted in Australia for his habit of being
behind the clock, or falling off a bicycle or
horse without much damage to his person,
has hospitably rushed to the aid of some
pedagogues in Britain. Dominies from
Canada and Newfoundland landed in
Britain with intent to tour the rainfall of
Europe and explore the slush thereof. This
was just before the hosts of William got into
their stride. The pedagogues were more or
less stranded for a few weeks, owing to
the collapse of their plans. Brassey offered
the shelter of his baronial humpy to 10 of
the party, and the rest were snatched
by other well-meaning householders.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


‘CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
-c
tfffW*
■
m
m.
S^
w.
sS"i^vT'
a
v
vn.
&
Vv-- '
rfTsi
><>•*
S®B3
'i&tofK&irr^ U f 3
*#*!{!<
bs^sSSsss''■
?■-<■;
$£
:{.-<kts
%
.■JSwM
SJeSySjf
*S£~i
3ps
gsgjj&!
$55?
Sl§
EK
£
v
<j
/A
y
V.
■***
V"
vV
w
X
K
/ )
,m
yy
i / / /
i i
Ss*
J f
1 l
£&
f .
y?
yy.
y
X W
ycy
y§
\
,g&t
!r-r>
ssgSiS
wrrM
,»K
SS**=
f&F.
■VnStf
. v . y -.v‘-
as?
3?is
*s*
sis2£gf
a®®*
sj^
sag
wfisg
i«SS
■;a-
S&iSasj
3v y-
§j&K®^sss
K??r
yy /
<#*
xzs
w*r
gX
O' tf
r
V-li'*-
or 2
.
y>-:y
«*#
,*V / /
V ( / /]
;, ,/z.z
'•L'i**-
S 3
\yfy
*si
%
<?/■
stt
SiS?
S p 1
X
■yf 5
•w*
(f
fy
S^r
r
(A *>y
<6?
//
i/SfS
f#
Mf
: V 7
; x?
/ ;V
-i
><
y
a
Ajf
\
V
Cobra,” 15he. Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Has important
Work to do.
While the bullets
Sing in air
Chunder and the
“COBRA’S” Bear
Get the Chief’s
D espatches thro
Telling troops
What they’re to
In the battle’s
Deadly hail
“COBRA"
Cannot fail.
service


A Feafuro of 5 Stjdnetj Life -
FARMERS RESTAURANT
The Luncheon Hall
Tea [Loom and Hoof Garden
Visitors to Sydney during the Spring Race Meeting should make a point of visiting Farmer's
Restaurant, where everything is modelled on the latest English and Continental Lines.
Hot Luncheons from the Silver- Grill
are served in the Tea Room (Sixth Floor) from 12 noon to 2 p.m. daily with roll and
butter, and tea or coffee. PRICE 1/6. Also, Cold Meat Luncheons.' with roll and
butter, and tea or coffee. PRICE 1/0.
Table d’Hote Luncheon
is served daily in the Luncheon Hall on the Fifth Floor. PRICE 2/6-
Special Theatre Dinner in Farmer’s Luncheon Hall
Every Friday Evening from G. 30 to 8.30. Table d’Hate, 4/6.
PERFECT CUISINE AND EXCELLENT SERVICE THROUGHOUT.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY
PlT']'. MARKET & GEORGE STREETS
LOP
GARDEN
HOSE
r?~-
m
P
j HC
THIS HOSE
is the Finest that
you can obtain.
Its quality ensures
long wear, and
its Construction
no kinking or
bursting.
The fact that more “ Dunlop”
Hose is sold in Australasia
than any other brand speaks
volumes for its Quality and
Durability. ONLY ACCEPT
“DUNLOP” BRANDS.
Sample Section on Application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney. Adelaide,
Perth, Brisbane, Wellington
and Christchurch, N.Z.
DUNLOP
RUBBER
For
Quality
Wear
and
Comfort
■' r*,
0
Dunlop Rubber Co.
All State* & N.Z.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, September 2S, 1014.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The postponed patriotic function or corro-
boree at Government House did little better
in the way of weather on Thursday. The
wind was cold and powerful enough to annoy
an Icelander. And now for one of my
famous pen-pictures of the proceedings. The
grounds were over-run by embryo soldiers;
cadets who fought pitched battles, fell in
action, were ambulancod and had their
wounds attended to. Visitors making their
way through the trees on the lawns met
gruesome, bandaged objects on stretchers.
Ambulance carts with hammock stretchers
hung above each other like cabin bunks
trundled slowly along the drives. Nurses
looked after a travelling kitchen, which pro-
mised to prepare soup, fish, meat, pudding,
etc., for i>oo men in .11 hours. Really, if
only there had been a little more noise one
might have imagined oneself on the Aisne.
The Field Hospital aroused a certain
amount of mild interest, but, as always at
these shows, the most popular spot was
the Commissariat Department. Afternoon
tea was set out in the ballroom, and was
available at one modest bob per head. Sheep
duchesses and business countesses waited on
the herd with their own lovely hands. I will
say for them, right here, that they were
less intolerantly haughty, by a long way,
than the usual minions of the food-trade —
repellent young females who, all too often,
suggest by their manner that they are think-
ing, “Just you dare to smack my face and
I’ll call for the police.” High-born dames
rushed the supply-buffets in the corridors
shrieking shrilly, “four teas, three sand-
wiches.” and other yells well known to
refreshment-seekers.
Lady Doris Blackwood was one of the
tea girls. She wore a slightly bewildered
look and appeared to me to lack zip or dash
or elan or something. But anyhow she
labored under a handicap. Climbers kept
impeding her business progress by patting
her shoulder and saying, “How bee-eautifully
you pour tea, Lady Doris.” On each of
these occasions she had to stop pouring and
smile in a kindly manner and in general
pretend that she didn’t regard the whole
thing as utterly banal.
Veteran amateur sweet-sellers, the heroines
of a hundred charitable campaigns, were
nearly trampled to death at the entrance.
One pushing, perspiring matron mut-
tered savagely in my shell-like ear: “It’s
these beastly boxes that are in the way.”
She meant the cases in which reposed the
soldiers’ duds that all the fuss was about.
I gave her such a look, my dear; it almost
made her stop perspiring. Awful small boys
of the II upper Classes wandered self-
consciously round, dressed as Nelson and
other notables, and made a fiendish noise
shaking collection tins. While all this was
going on at Government House, girl emis-
saries were scattered from the Base all over
(lie city selling flowers. They even got out
to the Show with their cold, white gowns
and their chill, blue noses. The Centreway
in the city was blocked for a while by some
of the darlings pooling their vegetables and
getting a dear, sweet auctioneer to sell off
for them. Altogether, it was a highly ener-
getic rush for the spoil, and I understand
that much cash was gathered in.
Captain George Landale departed last
week. As I have confided to you about 27
times, he is off to rejoin his old regiment.
His friends and relations rallied together at
Spencer-street to bid him good-bye, and he
received their benedictions in his customary
impassive fashion. He has a gift for bland,
wooden silence that almost touches the
heights of genius. Mrs. Ivy Clark Landale
was the chief loser present, and among the
more dimly connected of the relations Mrs.
YVimmen’s League Hughes showed conspicu-
ously.
Mr. Nigel Brock had a tea-party on Thurs-
day at Wiekcliffe House (which is a supper-
garden-tea-house since it resigned its posi-
tion as the Royal Yacht Club rooms) to wel-
come back the members of the Green
Dandies’ Company. A great many people,
including your Johanna and the two Tates,
got so involved in the junketings at Govern-
ment House that afternoon that they were
unable to take sustenance with the Dandies.
I trust that the troupe will understand, and
neither fret nor bear malice over the
untoward occurrence.
Colin .T., head of the house of Hutton, is
dead. He ivas only 43, and was the son
ot the founder of the big pig firm. He leaves
a wife and three young children ; also four
sisters, all well known in Society. They
are Mrs. Hurlstone, Mrs. Hutchinson, Mrs.
Smallwood and Mrs. James—a remarkably
good-looking lot of young matrons.
John Ford Paterson, son of Hugh Pater-
son, of Albert Park, left the home-roost in
a blaze of matrimony last week, the other
party to the conflagration being Kathleen
Ilepworth, a pretty brunette. The newly-
weds fled from the usual downpour of con-
fetti and good wishes to Shepparton, where
tlie groom conducts an irrigation farm. John
Ford borrows that portion of his signature
from his deceased uncle, the good Australian
painter, and has long nourished his faith in
the value of wheat, oats and similar
growths in a somewhat discouraging
sphere of art and music. His sister, Esther,
is the charming young painter and illus-
trator well known to Bulletin readers;
while another sister. Betty, is so full of
music that even the sound of her taking
soup is said to resemble a chime of bolls.
(She doesn’t make any sound while taking
soup, but that is the way she would sound
if she did sound, which she never does, and,
moreover, she wouldn’t even dream of such a
thing.)
The most interesting exhibit at the Agri-
cultural Show was the burning of the grand-
stand. It added quite a Neronian touch
to the proceedings. The stout lvog was
neglected. The peerless cow was abandoned.
All present turned and revelled in the con-
flagration. For my own part, I am pre-
pared, at any time, to run a mile to see a
lire, and we literary girls are no champions
in the running line either. The guiding
spirit, I fancy, is that which impels us in
childhood’s happy hour to cut down the
family cherry tree, smash the grand-paternal
clock, and so forth —in brief, destructive-
ness. The usual scare-headed lies were
brought to stay-at-home relatives about a
holocaust Of human lives. As a matter of
fact, nothing living was burnt —not so
much as a hen. The debris of burnt build-
ings was a nuisance for the rest of the day,
and bits of charred wood kept dropping on
the shaggy skulls of prying hayseeds.
Tuesday was “Quality” day —a day of
vice-regality and hauteur and official excite-
ment and special blue-and-gold luncheon
tickets and unlimited alcohol. The G.-G.
was still away, and there was a haunting
suspicion amongst the assembled pastoralists
that he wasn’t eating his heart out on the
subject either. Several, at the risk of being-
accused of disloyalty, opined that he is
indifferent to the charms of horseflesh.
However, Governor Stanley rose to the
occasion, as is his habit. lie made a highly
informative speech. Really, my dear, I find
myself wondering sometimes if this estim-
able young man is a Governor or an encyclo-
pedia.
An Indian prince, with a name like a
Hindustani prayer or curse, was there, and
the big horse-breeders, figuratively speaking,
lay down on their breasts before him and
writhed. He was here last year, and bought
1500 horses, so I am told. I am also told
that he has sent an army of horses and men
at his own expense from India to the war.
Anyhow, whether these allegations are true
or false, lie is indisputably affluent, and
hence the writhing business. He is small,
but what the novelists call distinguished-
looking. To put it in another way, he more
resembles a bank-clerk in indifferent health
than a beer-fed wharf-lumper. His garb
was an overcoat reaching almost to his
ankles, diminutive patent leather shoes and
a big white turban. By the way lie looked
at the horses I could see he knew a lot
about them—-and yet, on second thoughts,
I have seen motor mechanics scan the
animals in much the same omniscient,
stable-yard manner.
The Women’s Work exhibit at this Show
would have warmed the hearts of the North-
cote and the Carmichael ladies, who both
took a tremendous interest in such stuff.
This year, a scheme was initiated by which
a woman could show, in one lot, (lie work
done by her individually during the year.
The exhibit of one human beaver—l cannot
bring myself to call her woman —began in a
prominent position and overflowed round the
corner. There were beeswax, pen-and-ink
sketches, preserved fruits, jam. photography,
needlework, cakes, bread, pot plants she had
reared, garden seeds which pointed to a large
garden, butter, cheeses, hams and pickled
mutton, rope made by a home machine, floor-
rugs made by hand from “pieces,” and.
sticking out from the end of this terrible
cornucopia, a heap of wool-work that in-
cluded socks and intimate domestic clothing.
A toiler of this description would necessarily
begin and punctuate her day with the milk-
ing of many kine. and she would be sure to
keep pigs for the skim-milk, and breed
canaries and dogs and cats, and rear her
calves by hand-feeding, and chop the house-
hold wood, night and morning, and do a bit
of road-mending and carpentering in her
spare time.
Hutchinson, the newest Minister for Agri-
culture, called a lot of busy people together
for half an hour on Wednesday morning of
last week, to help open the Government Cool
Stores at Victoria Dock. Governor Stanley
played lead in his customary efficient man-
ner. He touched a. high dramatic level at
an early stage, and when he reached the
classic bit. inseparable from such occasions
as this, about Australia’s mission in the
matter of supplying the Empire with frozen
fruit, butter and rabbits, there was a rap-
turous cheer that very nearly ruined the
welkin. Mayor Hennessy turned on the elec-
tric current, and Governor Stanley set
machinery in motion like a couple of trained
engineers.
From my Adelaide correspondent :
The Patriotic Race Meeting at Victoria Park on
Saturday began with a credit balance of over £l9OO,
and seeing' that most of the officials gave their sei
vices free; that there was a good attendance and a
fair totalisator, the takings should be big. I ringa,
nominated bv the Governor-General, captured the
Commonwealth Plate and Mirabilite won the British
Handicap for the Mayor's Patriotic Committee. Both
stakes go to the fund. The Galways were there -she
in a smart garment of prune satin cloth —with Miss
Macaulay and Mr. Mulholland.
A Ministering- Children’s League Fete had been
fixed for the same afternoon at Caroglen, the A.
McCullochs’ house in North Adelaide, and Lady
Galway split her time between the two money-raisers.
The £ 90-odd profits were divided between the
Patriotic Fund and the local Children s Charities. All
of Society that wasn't at the races was at the fair,
and some of it was at both.
Mrs. Bates lectured on her travels on Tuesday even-
ing-. She is a small, vivacious woman, who has spent
years of her life among- Binghi folk, and speaks of a
camel-buggy journey from the \\ estralian coast to
Euela as calmly as most of us would discuss a day’s
motoring. She finds in Binghi a good deal to pity
and much to admire and like. Binghi must recipro-
cate her sentiments, since she has spent many months,
unharmed, in the -society of a race that is usually
catalogued as the lowest in existence.
Mr. and Mrs. Mac Diarmid have returned from their
trip to Java.
The crowd that lined the streets to see the parade
of the South Australian section of the Expeditionary-
Force on Monday was the most silent thing on record.
Not a cheer was heard, not a martial note —there
being no band for some reason or other. The
departing warriors might have been hurrying a corpse
to the ramparts for burial. 1 leaf and dust added
their trifle to the general depression, and all round
it was a gloomy function. This was strange. A finer,
more taking-looking lot you couldn't imagine. Inci-
dentally there are rumors that the second force is to
deprive us of four or five of our chief medicoes —of
the younger school, of course —and at least one
“rising” lawyer, namely J. L. Gordon, nephew of the
Judge and son of the late S.M.
Mrs. Barrett Hine and her daughter, who have been
visiting friends in South Australia for some months,
returned to England by the Maloja on Thursday.
Prince Alfred’s College has been patting itself on
the back inasmuch as it helped to evolve Professor
lludson-Beare. During the week he was fed by the
P.A.C. Old Scholars’ Association, and listened to
many laudatory speeches about himself. He also
excursioned to his old home in the South, towards
Cape Jervis —a stretch of country that was one of
the first to be settled, was more or less abandoned
when the North boom set in, and is now coming to
its own again.
Paris Nesbitt’s much-discussed hostility towards
coursing is at last to take practical shape. He is
proceeding against a local follower of the sport, and
Symon, K.C., has been retained by the other side.
Peter Dawson lias communicated with me,
via the Editor, and the burden of his plaint
is that he does not wear silk socks; nor
Amelia George, his wife, bleached locks. I
have been to see them again since my last
letter was composed, and 1 find, on closer
scrutiny that it is so. Peter’s socks are of
honest manly wool, Amelia’s locks have been
tinted by Mother Nature alone. I think it
was Byron who said, “I write as the tiger
springs”—at any rate Taine credits him with
this remark. I. my dear, am much the
same. My word-pictures are born of a crea-
tive frenzy which admits neither of chemical
analyses, for the purpose of hair-testing, nor
close scrutiny of the different varieties of
haberdashery that cross my line of vision. I
hope that the Dawson family will be satis-
fied with this frank avowal ; and that, in
consideration of it, all will be forgiven and
forgotten.
The Bush Nursing scheme came to
town, so to speak, for a conference.
There are B.N. committees in all the Vic-
torian way-back towns, and on Wednesday
Lady Helen asked the members of them to
Government House for a confab and a tea
party. There were fires burning in the
big drawing-room, and the hostess wore a
dress of the warm red color that she best
loves. A sudden icy hail-and-raiu storm
out of doors made things particularly comfy
within by contrast. Pretty little Lady
Doris wore white lace tuckers on her blue
dress, and helped entertain. This girl
should be a champion entertainer by the
time she gets back to England. Mrs. Ilen-
nessy wore bright navy blue. Her husband
merely frit blue; he was carrying in his
breast-pocket an official memo, of the latest
naval disaster. Lady Stanley wore fawn
color, and what you could see of silk stock-
ing above black patent shoes was the same
shade. _ Governor Stanley just looked in
with his lady, and then motored away like
mad. He gets away from women’s parties
quicker than any other man in the State. The
presence of Mrs. Back-of-Beyond and Mrs.
Gippsland Hills made a refreshing break in
the monotonous conversation of the
Among Those Present, who meet each other
at every turn of the small Melbourne social
wheel. Their clothes looked rational; their
talk sounded sane. It was all most unusual,
and we social butterflies were highly edified.
The Munro portraits glowed from the walls
and found new admirers, and then Di Gilio,
behind some doorway curtains, blew the
guests with ragtime into tea and more talk.
The guests were also given a peep into the
ballroom, where the heaps of soldier cloth-
ing were being packed into boxes, to he sent
away to the Field Hospitals. They were
Lady Helen’s own particular Red Cross
Fund contributions. The Bush Nurse dele-
gates chose Show Week for the Conference
and so killed two excitements with one
railway ticket.
Another wedding was that of Miss
McWilliams to Major J. R. Jeffrey. It
occurred by night at the Scotch church.
South Yarra, on the 26th. and the guests
had a dinner party at the Grand Hotel after-
wards.
On Saturday night the Repertory Theatre
set forth a semi-circle of padded chail-s as a
lure for vice-royalty, but it only caught one
Governor (Stanley), and even the attendant
aide was an unusually slender one—in fact,
the Fisheries Board would probably have
condemned him as under-weight. However
the presence of the charming little Stanlev
dame made up for mnc-h. She. wore pastel
pmk draperies and soft. grey, chinchilla
furs, and looked an absolute duck in all
respects. Author Arthur Adams sat in the
row behind, looking perfectly sweet—but
Inst! he is a colleague. The lead in the plav
of the evening—“ Mrs. Pretty and the
Premier’—was taken by F. B. Reeve obvi--
mi sly made-up to look like Willie 'Watt.
His wife w&s in the ciiiclience cidmiring
hubby’s ability, and the -followers t
Robson (who played Mrs. Pretty ) A
there to admire not only her talent L,"? 1 ' 0
lovely hat. This Hat means a lot in u l '
play, as it completely extinguishes
hat —a wonderful red one—which ;\ Uotlei '
vided by the shameless shemale tvn.nv
in order to capture the attention , 1
boss, the business-absorbed Premier. ler
At the balon the Shakspearians hold
their seventh monthly meeting f Ol - the
on hnday (2nd). A seventh meeting in h
tenth month reminds one that the ID r
hardest-working worshippers occasional v
allow their minds to wander from the snh' ,
and miss a month or two. But the Ar 1
Sliak. Soc. does its best to keen in ,
with the times. For instance, Rev Siisrri
will read a paper on “Cymbeline as’a StiuL
in Patriotism” at this next meetino- V S
now that Hamlet, Macbeth. Benedick '•! 1
Shakspeare’s heroines have been discus-er
to death the persevering “paper” merchants
are dealing more with the Bard’s least con
skleral methods of craftsmanship. Phiiu t'
M.A., proposes to show that Divine Willi-,,»
anticipated the modern melodramatists in hi«
management of “The Two Villains of the
Play,” and lawyer Frank Russell. LLP,
going to talk about minor characters and
their bearing on the main plot and "the
comic relief. Shakspeare, you know w -is
England’s earliest father of comic relief "in
lurid tragedy.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


LIGHT CLOTHES
FOR SUMMER.
Ready-for-Service.
As suggested by PIKE BROTHERS LIMITED.
Summer is here, with its long oppressive days. It is time to think of lighter clothes if you would
have increased comfort this Summer. Pike Brothers, Limited, respectfully invite you to write for
their free booklet, entitled “ Light Clothes for Summer.” It gives full particulars of inexpensive,
ready-for-service Summer Suits, that fit perfectly any size or any figure. FILL IN THE FORM
BELOW AND POST TO-DAY.
Patrol or Band Collar,
Pleated Breast Pockets, may
lie worn directly over under-
shirt, without collar and
vest, if desired.
Norfolk Style, as illustrated,
or with turned-down Brad-
ford Collar if desired.
Mngle-breasted style. Double
breasted may be had if pro
ferred.
Why they fit
so well.
There are many men who have a natural objection to TlJeady-to-wear Clothes of any
description. 2sot one of us likes to have our apparel obviously "ready-made/' or, as the term
once conveyed, cheap-looking and ill-fitting. We nse the term "once” advisedly.
The READY-FOR-SERVICE TROPICAL SUITS featured in this announcement are so graded that they fit
perfectly any size or figure. Whether you are tall and thin, or short and stout, there, is an exact size for you.
THREE FABRICS ARE QUOTED-
Indian White Drill
Soft, Washable, Unshrinkable. Fit
perfectly any size or figure. Send for
pattern.
SINGLE-BREASTEI) COATS 15/-
DOUBLE-BREASTED COATS. 15/-
NORFOLK COATS 15/-
PATROL COATS (with 2-inch
band collar secured with
studs) 15/-
COAT & TROUSERS 25/6
TROUSERS 10/6
DINNER JACKETS 15/-
ETON JACKETS 15/-
Please state your height, chest, waist and
inside leg measurements. We will send
your selection on appi'oval.
Bungo Silk
A soft., silk-like Fabric, with plenty of
service. Washes very well. Rend for
pattern.
SINGLE-BREASTED COATS 35/-
DOUBLE-BREASTED COATS 35/-
NORFOLK COATS 35/-
PATROL COATS (with 2-inch,
band collar, secured with
studs) 35/-
•15/-
25/-
60/-
VESTS
TROUSERS
COAT & TROUSERS
Please state your height, chest, waist and
inside leg measurements. We will send
your selection on approval.
Indian Rajah Tweed
The most popular Fabric of all. Washes
perfectly. Will wear indefinitely. A
thin, cool material, ideal for Summer.
Dark grey “pepper and salt” shade.
SINGLE-BREASTED COATS 17/0
DOUBLE-BREASTED COATS 17/0
NORFOLK COATS ... 17/0
PATROL COATS (with 2-inch
band collar, secured with
studs) 17/0
VESTS 10/0
TROUSERS 13/0
COAT AND TROUSERS 31/-
Please state your height, chest, waist and
inside leg measurements. We will send
your selection on approval.
A Word About
the Making.
These “Tropical Suits’'* are splendidly planned, and
stitched, in accordance with our instructions, in India
workpeople. Each cloth is washable, and is fully
against shrinkage.
are hand-
, by skilled
guaranteed
THe Tailoring;
respectfully offers to send a full range of their New Season's Summer
Fabrics free to you, on request. Please write for the selection. There
is no obligation to purchase.
Please mention The Bulletin when writing.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
BRISBANE
“Correct Accessories to Men’s Dress for Town,
Country, Motoring or Sporting Wear.”
Toowoomba and Townsville.
X A-
-7
.•V
.•'oW'
•\A: y
A>
A?
• X cV .
cr ••'• *V
• \.c^ N 'y
.• V\'
•• \^\o
r, ' A
* v
0 X v >\%
C \°V
,
\°y
> v /
.•>v°
J*,<p
v^'sv>
v: •/
V .a
,
'
.* \«- v
<A .o' 1
\ .-A
A A
.\V- y-
yV
s>\y
. -
• rA io' • .* •
A>°. ' . * . * .
. *«■*’ •■ .- -\A
«>\o
A
,t> A‘-,V.? < v
X y A’’ A.\o
c o\iV & • «,
A'# s 4s >Ns a
\C‘ <S> cS* . •
KtPc? <v > *
> r-’f
•'.••'.•■• . A 4/ .
•‘ .' .••=N v y
■ •• vy.<••'.•>
- - it Vo
4\
■•’ .• >°y y •
,-;y V /\
•»V •
.• • y ~\o .• •' -■ •' y
*4PS**/4/S *


SPECIALIST EXPLAINS CAUSE OF
STOMACH TROUBLE.
VALUABLE ADVICE TO SUFFERERS.
“There are many different forms of stomach
trouble,” said a well-known specialist re-
cently, “but practically all are traceable to
excessive acidity and food fermentation. That
is why the results obtained from the use of
drugs are usually so disappointing. Admit-
ting fermentation and consequent acidity of
the food contents to be the underlying cause
of most forms of indigestion, it naturally
follow's that the use of a reliable antacid,
such as the pure bisurated magnesia which is
so frequently prescribed by physicians, will
produce better results than any known drug
or combination of drugs. Accordingly I
almost invariably advise those who complain
of digestive trouble to get some bisurated
magnesia (note the name carefully, as other
forms are unsuitable for this purpose) from
their chemist, and take half a teaspoon ful of
the powder, or two 5-grain compressed tab-
lets, with a little water after meals. This, by
immediately neutralising the acid and stop-
ping the fermentation, removes the cause of
all the trouble and ensures normal and
healthy digestion.”*
THE GREAT REMEDY.
Gotrr w
(SI RHEUMATIC PILES.
The severe pain of Rheumatism, Lumbago,
pciatiea. Neuralgia can be relieved by
BLAIR S PILLS, the Medicine that has
stood the test of Time. Purely vegetable.
Sure and Safe. Sold by all Drug Stores
and 229 Strand, London, England, in Boxes
at Is. and 2s. Gd.
Wholesale Agents: Elliott Bros. Ltd.
P. H. Faulding and Co.. Sydney, and others
What is the Best Beauty Soap
for the Complexion ?
There is at present a great controversy
going on in the English newspapers about
the best soap to use for the complexion.
Some advocate the use of one and some
another kind, but they are all satisfied on
one or two points, and those are t\>at for a
soap to be beneficial to the skin, must be
one without coloring matter, and without a
lot of strong, coarse, irritating perfume being
added, and also that the soap must be made
from good ingredients without a preponder-
ance of soda, which makes the skin hard.
An English soapmaker has been able to
combine all the above good qualities in a
soap, and at the same time to incorporate
some of the puritol wax, which is so much
in demand as a complexion beautifier and
protective, so that on washing with Puritol
Wax Soap there is a trace of the wax left
on the skin, which, by its continuous sooth-
ing and corrective action on the skin and
its pores, keeps it in a healthy and pure
state, and prevents the formation of pimples
and blemishes on it.
THE HOWARD: Exact.
In 1829 Edward Howard was apprenticed to
Aaron Willard, Jun., the descendant of a long
line of English Watchmakers, who settled in the
Massachusetts Colony about the middle of the
eighteenth century. . TT
In 1840 he started in business for hiniself. LP
to that time watches had always been made h.
handwork exclusively. Howard’s plan was to
make automatic tools that should perfect tne
parts of a watch, leaving to the hand the task o
assembling and finishing the parts. ,
In 1842 the first Howard Watch was produce
—a thoroughly practical watch. The Howard o
to-day is the finest practical timepiece in ti
world for a man to carry in his pocket.
It has a patented hard-tempered steel haianc ,
which will not knock out of true with the J
and jar of the severest service. ,
Peary carried a Howard on his trip to
Pole.
Orville Wright relied on a Howard in his Aero
plane Tests. . T , frir
Admiral Chas. D. Sigsbee carried a Howard
forty years. , . ,
Send your address for the Illustrated >'
catalogue.
PRODDS LTD.,
Jewellers and
Watchmakers,
187 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Among the cables during the earlier days
of the Aisne battle was this: —
The Allies’ success has been largely due to the
clever use by General Joffre of the French railways,
enabling the Allies to concentrate huge masses of
reserves and to throw them swiftly where they are
required.
Exactly! And if, some day, Australia were
attacked where France was—at its most vul-
nerable point—how effectively our different
railway gauges would lend themselves to the
“swift transport of masses of troops,” with
all their concomitant paraphernalia !
A shadowy and improbable-looking report
says that the Emperor of Austria is still
alive at the age of 84 —if he is really alive
he entered on his 85th year on August IS.
It is alleged that the poor, troubled Methu-
selah is supplied with information about
.imaginary victories, and spends his time
promoting imaginary officers who are carry-
ing his imaginary banner to Paris and
Moscow. If there was a retiring age for
monarchs, as there is for civil servants. Aus-
tria might have a chance. As matters stand,
it seems that any casual person is running
the civil and military show and forging the
old man’s signature.
The new Australian Government has
reckoned that the railways of this continent
can be converted to a uniform : gauge of
4ft. SMu. for a trifle of £37,000,000. Such
a conversion would treble the country’s pos-
sibilities of defence, inasmuch as it would
make it possible to send a strong force from
Adelaide and Melbourne to Central Queens-
land inside a week, whereas, with the break
of gauge at the N.S.W. and Queensland
borders, and the shifting of men and horses
and stores and artillery from one train to
another, the work could hardly be done in
less than six weeks. Still it is a huge price
to pay—merely because the early bounding
rulers of N.S.W. hadn’t the sense or honor
or decency to stick to the original agree-'
ment about a uniform gauge.
• Peacock and Holman, »f Victoria and
N.S.W. respectively, rose to the occasion
when they offered to take 150 Belgian
widows, with one or two children each, per
month. But Albert. King of the Belgians,
rose even more so when he replied: “Dear
boys, thanks awfully! You’re real good.
But when this scrap is over I want every
man, woman and child to make good the
waste of war. Children then will be far
above rubies, and better than refined gold !”
And Winston Churchill said: “If the Ger-
man Navy doesn’t come out to fight we will
dig it out like rats from their hiding-place.”
And it came to pass on the next day that, as
the British Navy lay dozing on the water,
weary of waiting for its prey, certain of
the smallest rats stole forth unobserved and
THE PERISH.
The N.S.W. Premier (Mr. Holman) stated that the Government was already spending £800,000 per
month on public works. Money was tight, and at present there was no possibility of raising a foreign
loan. —Reply to unemployed, deputation.
THE SKIPPER OF THE N.S.W.: “Lor'! How I could do a drop at a time like this."
made holes in three armored cruisers, repre-
senting 36,000 tons of British Navy in all.
And they sank into the sea, together with
many hundreds of crewmen. Whereupon
tidings of this alarming outbreak of rattery
were carried to Winston Churchill, and he
tore his bald hair and cried: “Why did I
speak so soon ?” And echo answered
“Rats !”
PRESSURE ON SPACE.
GERMAN OFFICIAL (furiously): “ Now , don't you bray to Gott in Himmel for victories.
Der Kaiser haf found that der braying industry vas much congested. Dere vos
not enough victories to go round."
Of the 75 Representatives elected in 1901
—they comprised the first lot —19 have kept
consistently on deck. Twenty-two of the
original 75 were returned in 1914, but three
were men who had scrambled back after
temporary eclipse. Only two of the original
Victorian crowd have sat continuously—
Tudor and Maloney. No original Victorian
Senator is left. Only seven members of the
original Senate still keep up the wicket.
Bigjohn Forrest remains of the first
Australian Ministry.
[John Barr, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
“Croson’s” view of it:—
Adipose continues to march steadily to its doom.
After helping to lose the Federal election for Joe
Cook by fooling with the Price of Foods Bill, the
unnerved reactionaries suddenly swallowed the
hated thing at a gulp. They were next asked to “re-
view” the Amending Factories Bill—and they did it
with enthusiasm. First, they spoiled the general
Saturday half-holiday for the city by allowing subur-
ban barbers to close on Wednesday or Saturday, as
they preferred. Then they stipulated that a wages
Board delegate must be actually engaged in that
particular trade, thus shutting out such independent
representatives as union secretaries. Next the restric-
tion of hours in certain shops to 56 per week for
women and 58 for men was removed in so far as it
applied to seaside resorts. And in other respects the
Bill was transformed into a mockery. Nominally the
Assembly will have a chance to deal with these amend-
ments, but the Assembly has only a few days to live.
So in the end the People’s House will have to be
satisfied with a crust or nothing. Victoria is getting
tired of stating that it wants a large, fresh, full-
weight loaf, and being handed, after a prolonged wait,
the fag -end of a piece of stale toast. And that
weariness is going to act with fatal effects on the
reactionary body which is to blame for it, so soon as
Labor gets on top in the Assembly.
Australia having depended largely on
foreign borrowing at 3£ per cent, in good
times, now falls back on the' idea of still
larger foreign borrowing at 5 or 6 per cent,
in bad times. So it came to pass that Premier
Peacock, of Victoria, spread his recent tail
and suggested a new fresh loan to the
amount of £6,100,000. The purposes to
which _ the money is to be applied include
irrigation, water supply, drainage, protec-
tion against floods, wire netting, and the
building of primary State schools. The
spectacle of Victoria, a gold-producing and
liigh-wage country which lias never been
devastated by war or even struck by a
serious war-tax, clamoring to the ruined
and battered folk of Europe for money with
which to build infant academies would be
humorous if it were not pathetic.
A casual item of the war ;
a German gun, which if 1 - s
alleged, can throw a shell fr 1S
Calais (France) to n m
(England j. But theGemT*'
haven’t got Calais yet 5
Dover, even if a shell o *,. a ,
it, is a mouldy., tangled S
town which isn’t worth m„„i
more than 2d. Supposing tfe
Germans acquired Calais
place of not much more value
than Dover— and fired off their
gun, and hit Dover once in lo
that is about all they
could hope for—they W onlH
probably spend more on annum
mtion than the whole business
was worth.
Last Monday the S. M. Herald reported
in its commercial column that there are
25,591,794 hogs in Germany. This is a
g'loomy item of news. With all these rein-
forcements to draw upon it is likely to be a
i° n S war.
Had Britain had a scheme of compulsory
training it is about certain that there would
not be a single German soldier in Belgium
°r to-day. The first British contri-
... , ~ . , .
bution to the Allied Army was a compara-
lively small force. It was an excellent army
and . did good work ’ but had been a
mlllloQ Stl '° ng 14 would have done more
work and played a decisive part from the
vel V J um P- The horrors of Louvain, Tom-
tcide and Llieims would have been averted
And the .Teuton shoved back on his own
biewery. It may be some months yet be-
*ore the British are in any impressive force,
? <>V not ! llng less than 1,200,000 men Will be
or worthy of the strength of the
Empire.
About a new Ministry : —
The Caucus plan of choosing Ministries works well
in practice, all round. The present Fisher
Government is about as strong as it well could be.
External Affairs Minister, John Andrew Arthur, is
only 39, and he entered Parliament at his first
attempt, last year, when he defeated John Quick for
Bendigo (Vic.). He was born in Fryerstown (Vic.),
is LL.B. of Melbourne University, and a constitutional
authority of note. W. O. Archibald has represented
Hindmkrsh (S.A.) continuously since ’O3. He was
sometime wharf-laborer and union secretary, and
always a thinker. He takes Home Affairs. P.M.G.
W G. Spence came here from the Orkneys in ’52,
when only six. He followed mining till ’7B, then set
out on the organising track that has made him the
best-known Australian outback and on the mining
fields. He has held the Darling (N.S.W.) seat since
the beginning of Federation. Senator Gardiner, Vice-
President, reached the Ma State Assembly, as member
for Forbes, at 24, and was in and out of that rowdy
{£*“ tim . es til! he p . ut ap for
Setlate 111 10 - A s a youngster he was a Rugby placet
f kp ,^ nk : He, with ex-Senator Arthur Rae, was
responsible for the summary rejection of the Bill mat
Cook the chance to get a double dissolution,
Russell, Senator and Hon. Minister, is 35, and belongs
f° Warrnambool (Vic.), where the big road laceused
S Sf‘ T d M D*S
, It ades Hall Cou,ieil when onl ' v . 2 ' l , !
by Donald Mackinnon for p ’ ran > he tried the Senate
“ ° 6 ! 804 in > , and there ’ Je " sen ’ * e
4 lc tonan-boni Tasmanian with the Danish n .
OVVIIS to 49 and an 01 'g ai,isin ff hablt Also to ha ' in '’
adorned the Flyspeck Assembly for 11 years,
[F. C. Jones, Elgar-road, Burwood, Victoria.l
WAKING UP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An important announcement was made by the
Premier (Mr. Holman) in the Legislative Assembly
yesterday afternoon as to prices fixed by the
Necessary Commodities Control Commission, and also
as to the Government’s intention to make deductions
from the salaries of civil servants and members of
Parliament, with a view to providing money for
works to absorb the unemployed.
—Sydney Telegraph.
Who said it was time to wake up, 0 Lord! these
rockets and bombs in my head !
Now where did we get to? Never mind! Is
there anything under the bed ?
The bottle is empty! What rotten luck, when the
pub shows a cold front door !
1 thought it was open for ever! Oh, but I never
thought we’d see war ■
Let’s sit on the edge of the bed and think, while
the furniture settles down!
Now where did I finish last night, and who saw me
safe to my room from town ?
I have an idea I owe some cash —but I must owe a
great deal more!
I suppose I’ll have to pay someone now! (I never-
thought we’d see war !)
Say, credit’s a wonderful thing—so long as the
world isn’t wanting gold !
And I never thought paper could look so cheap!
( I can’t feel my feet —they’re cold!)
But then I was always a man of peace—when I
wasn’t a man of law;
And it paid me to play the optimist. (But 1 never
thought we’d see war!)
I’ll have to economise now—and that's what T never
thought I should do,
For, from first to last, I have built my schemes on a
deep and eternal .lew ;
Neither Heaven nor Hell nor this round world held
the Jew that I hunted for—•
The Jew that I hunted and thought I had, till I
woke to the shock of war.
There is nothing at all in my pocket, friend! O
thunder! my head is sore!
But I never thought we’d see war, old man ! Oh, I
never thought we'd see war!
N.S.W.
PEACE SOCIETY.


Missing: Friends.
INFORMATION is reouired as to the
relatives of the late ALFRED CANDY,
who died at I’ioe Creek (Northern Terri-
lory) on 30th July, 1910. lie is stated
to have had a step-brother—Henry Allen—
™' died at Darwin Hospital on stli June,
‘•HO. Both are stated to have been natives
ol \ ictoria. Communications to be sent to
the Public Trustee, .Darwin, Northern
territory.
U. E. CAREY, Public Trustee.
BE Best Stories written by Australian
”riiers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price. 6d. monthly.
Missing Friends.
NEXT OF KIN WANTED.
ANY person having knowledge of the
whereabouts of a sister of JAMES
SHAW (a native of Gippsland, now
deceased), supposed to be residing in SALE,
Victoria, is requested to kindly communi-
cate with the Public Trustee, Wellington,
New Zealand.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
a
l\/f’ ELBA AND CARUSO! What visions one can conjure up at the
*-*-1. mention of these two names! A London Opera season, seats at a
premium, a frenzied crowd about the doors! And yet, in the peace and quiet
of your own home you can hear these great artistes if you own an
"HIS MASTER’S VOICE” Gramophone
and a selection of “His Master’s Voice” Celebrity Records.
NOTABLE BRITISH PRODUCTIONS.
Think of the exquisite delight caused by such voices reverberating through the
rooms, or in the open air, on a summer night. Let us send you a list of
the wonder-records by Melba and Caruso —aye, and those of McCormack,
Kirkb.v Lunn, Clara Butt, and the host of others who sing exclusively for
“His Master’s Voice.”
Instruments from £5/12/6 to £6O.
Catalogue, record lists and name of nearest dealer on
request.
Sole Concessionaires for
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
INVINCIBLE
OIL ENGINES
The Best m the World
Stationary and Portable Engines
are built in the vertical type
from 2 to 10 h.p. t and in the
horizontal type from
1 to 65 h.p.
They will run on any
fuel, benzine, kerosene
or crude oil.
They are working in all parts
of Australasiaj see what a few
users say (we c< n show you-
hundreds of other similar testi-
monials) :
With reference to the 6h.p. “Model M.’’
Portable Engine I bought from you, I have
not had the least trouble with it. I can
always depend on it starting with one or
two turns of the flywheel. I think it is
undoubtedly the simplest engine that I have
come across. I work a 9lin. mouth Chaff-
cutter, with Bagger attached; she seems to
drive it easily enough. Under a full load
she will go about eleven hours on four
gallons. (Sgd.) C. BLOOM,
Lockhart, N.S.W.
I hj"e pleasure in testifying to my entire
satisfai tion with the Th.p. “Model V.” “In-
vincible" Engine I have had installed in my
garden, and which has been giving such good
results during the past two months. I con-
sider that the engine answers in the minutest
detail the points that were claimed for it.
I am not an expert in machinery, therefore
cannot describe its parts, but Ido B av this
engine is pumping 5000 gallons oer hour.
It has nevei given trouble, and f find it
economical in fuel consumption and upkeep,
it is a model of simplicity and economy, and
T cannot too strongly reoomrmn' 1 it '■ any-
one wanting a good and reasonablv-priced
engine. (Sgd.) P. J. LONG,
Muswell brook,’ N.S.W.
Re my 4h.p. “Model M.” Stationary “In-
vincible” Engine, which I purchased from
you, I am more than satisfied with same. 1
believe she is the simplest and best engine
on the market. My little girl 10 years of
age can start it very easily.
(Sgd.) J. M. DAWNEY,
Piggabeen Creek, Tweed H’ds.
I am pleased to state that the 2h.p.
Engine which I used for my shearing gave
e y e -.y satisfaction. It was driving three
stands of shears and handled the work easilv.
although the sheep were heavy cutting. 1
can recommend this engine as thorough]v
reliable and just what is required for driving
shearing machines.
(Sgd.) JOHN BURRELL,
The Wilgas, Nevertire, N.S.W.
FOR FIVE YEARS.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
Invincible Motor Construction Company Limited
Works : Woolwich, N.5.W. Showrooms :35 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sole Distributors for N.S.W.: Messrs. JAMES BELL g CO., 109 Pitt Street. S^.
TECHN
Write us when you want
a Book on Trade Subjects.
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND,
WINDOW-DRESSING
PRICE
Post Free.
“The Koester School” Book of
Drapes, 1913. V complete Text-
book and Course of Instruction in Mer-
chandise Draping. 430 pages and copi-
ously illustrated 15/0
Practical Drapery Cutting, a
Handbook on cutting and fixing Cur-
tains, Draperies, etc., by E. Noetzli.
ICO illustrations 15/0
Strong’s Book of Designs, a be-
wildering collection of Modern, Orna-
mental Art, bristling with new and up-
to-date ideas and designs of every
conceivable nature. Thirty-three pages
in colors, along with nine brand-new
alphabets 21/6
Fairchild’s Modern Window
Trims, for the Men’s Wear Trades, also
Store Interiors and Exteriors 11/“
One Hundred Good Men's Wear
Displays, a collection of the best Win-
dow Displays of Clothing and Haber-
dashery, selected from the “Merchants’
Record and Show Window.” Formerly
7/6. Offered at 3/9
The Window Trimmer’s Hand-
book, a convenient reference book
issued by the I.C.S 3/8
Instructions on Modern Show-
card Writing, brush and pen, valu-
able suggestions by Bissell 2/8
Monograms and Ciphers, 135 plates
and 900 original, large-size designs,
by Turbayne 3/3
INDUSTRIAL
PRICE
Post Free.
Galvanising and Tinning, a treatise
on coating with Tin and Zinc, and Tin-
ning Grey Iron Castings, by Flanders 10/2
Recipes for Flint Glass Making,
by a British Glass Master and Mixer.
A most valuable book 12/8
Processes of Flour Manufacture,
112 illustrations. 1912. By Percy Amos 3/8
Liquid Fuel and its Apparatus,
by ffm. Booth 10/9
Gas Engineer’s Laboratory Hand-
book, by John Hornby, 1911 7/10
Recipes for the Color, Paint,
Varnish, Oil, Soap and Dry-
saltery Trades 9/4
Modern Printing Inks, a practical
Handbook for Printing Ink Manufac-
turers and Printers, by Seymour.... ... 6/2
Simple Jewellery, a Practical
Handbook for Craftsmen and Designers,
by 1 Rathbone, 1911 7/10
Electro-Typing, by Urquhart 5/8
Leather Trades Chemistry, by
Trottnan 18/8
The Metric System of Weights
and Measures, compared with the
Imperial System 1/10
The Soap-maker’s Handbook,
materials, processes and receipts for
every description of Soap, by Braunt. . 31/-
Architectural Pottery, Bricks, Tiles,
Pipes, Terracottas, Mosaics and Stone-
ware, by Lefevre 18/8
N.S.W. Bookstall Co. Ltd.
476 George Street
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS),
Sydney.
Dependable WATCH BRACELETS
Reliability in the telling of time —the first use of a watch —
is the strong point of these icatch bracelets. Stewart
Daioson Watches have been selected especially—each watch
has been tested and carries our thorough recommendation.
At the prices below, they represent extreme value.
01240.—Lady’s Gold Keyless Lever Watch, mounted
on patent, Expanding Bracelet, 15ct. Gold . £9
01242. Lady’s Gold Keyless Lever Watch, fully jewelled
movement, with compensation balance, mounted on 9ct.
Gold, Patent Expanding Bracelet £6/15/-
J9364.—Lady’s Gold-filled Expanding Watch Bracelet,
fully jewelled Lever movement 45/-
With leather strap 35/-
WRITE FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
giving full illustration, prices and particulars of the best
values in Jewellery and Plate obtainable. We send it post
free to any address.
STEWART DAWSON S,
The Strand Corner, George Street, Sydney


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special Whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
COMSTOCK’S NERVE AND BONE
LINIMENT
Is a powerful, penetrating preparation
which acts through the pores of the skin on
the nerves, bone and muscles. It possesses
the marvellous properties of a prompt pain-
killer, and is unsurpassed as a remedy tor
the pains and aches to which human beings
are subject, and which only an external
remedy can relieve. .
It overcomes pains and aches by relieving
the effect on the delicate nerves, causing
the circulation of the blood to be fully main-
tained through the injured part. It is an
invaluable remedy for sprains and tor re-
ducing swellings, which, under its influence,
become softened and disappear.
Rheumatism, sciatica and lumbago ail
yield to the powerful, penetrating and con-
quering properties of this liniment if used
in connection with Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills according to directions.
For stiff joints, neuralgia, lame back-
scalds, burns, contracted muscles and pain-
ful swellings it will be found that Com
stock’s nerve and bone liniment is a splendic
remedy. It prevents severe blistering and
draws the burning sensation from burns
and scalds, and averts discoloration ot tne
skin from bruises. . . .
Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment
may be obtained at all the leading chemists
and stores, or will be forwarded by man
(post paid) at the same price, 2s. bd. per
bottle (6 bottles 13s. 6d. ). Address— The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Stieet,
Sydney.*
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Passed away at ltandwick. Sydney, last
Friday, a strenuous supporter of wholesome athleticism
in the person of Mr. King" T. Giltinan. He believed in
the open-air life, and was a prominent member of the
old and famous Mercantile blowing Chib. He was
always a prominent official in the inter State and other
important amateur rowing events, such as the
Anniversary Regatta, and was also one of the jolliest
dogs of the Prince Alfred Yachting Club.
The city of Brunswick (Vic.), which is
already in debt up to its neck, looks like being cast in
further financial troubles over its Sports Club and
Stadium row. When the promoters first applied for
the registration of this institution as a place of
amusement or a school of applied science, or what
not, the Council smiled and said to go ahead. And
now the fool body has reneged, and has rescinded, by
five votes to four, the resolution to license the place.
As the promoters have bought the land and put up
the building on the Council’s undertaking- to license it
there will probably be a weighty bill to pay. Mean-
while, it is interesting to note one experienced Bum-
ble’s innuendo: “Why won’t you license this? You
licensed the dancing saloon unanimously, because
certain councillors were interested in it.” And he
ought to know.
” * * * *
“Lloyd’s,” of London, definitely gave
itself away—if any doubt remained —as a gambling
institution, just before the war came to knock out
the America Cup race. A so-called policy was issued
to “pay a total loss” if Lipton won the Cup from the
IJ.S.A." with his yacht. The premium was officially
announced as 36-J per cent. Of course, there would
he no loss, and the “policy” simply means laying a
shade under 2 to 1 against Lipton.
-tt * * *
Lacrosse and Law don’t seem to go well in
double harness; hut a prominent supporter of the
game is proceeding against the South Australian
Lacrosse Association for an injunction and £5OO
damages. When the war started S.A. hastily cancelled
its pending fixture with Victoria —said it was com-
pelled to. Victoria strongly resented this, and one
Adelaide man allowed his views to get into the papers,
both in his own city and in Melbourne. He held that
his side was wrong, and the other side right. So the
S.A. Association expelled him from its committee
on a resolution that “Mr. .1. Walker has rendered his
presence detrimental to the majority of the com-
mittee by his action in submitting untruthful state-
ments to* the press.” And now the Supreme Court is
acting as umpire, and Mr. J. Walker is howling, and
the Association is trying to hold up its wicket, and
Costs is taking the money at the gate.
Brisbane (Q.), which has hitherto been
somewhat out of the running as regards physical
culture, can at last rejoice in a really up-to-date
exponent of the noble art of keeping fit and getting
fitter. Arthur Tilbury, of the Saxon School, is making
an offer to readers of this paper in the advertising
columns that is well worthy perusal bv all who wish
to acquire or retain rugged vigor.*
There has been a great controversy raging
in swimming circles in Fogland lately as to who
invented or discovered the “crawl” stroke. Numer-
ous yarns have been circulated as to the origin of
this method of getting through the water; the
generally-accepted one appearing to be that the
Cavills copied it from the South Sea Islanders and
introduced it into Australia, the U.S.A. and
Fogland. A contributor to the recent controversy
told the following story illustrative of the develop-
ment of the stroke: When Syd Cavill was on his way
to Uncle Samland in 1898 he called at Samoa, and
at Apia swam a race against a brown maiden._(The
reason for this is shrouded in mystery.) Syd just
managed to beat the girl, hut he noticed that she
possessed a remarkable style of swimming and that
she seemed to be laughing most of the time. He
got the damsel to give a further exhibition of her
ability, and found that she crawled along the water,
using only her hands and arms, and that she did
not kick her legs at all. When Syd got to Hono-
lulu he tried this stroke with his legs tied together,
and found that it was much faster than the ancient
“trudg.” So he adopted the stroke, improved it in
several ways, added a leg kick to it, and produced
the. speediest method of getting through the water
fhat mere man (or dusky maiden for that matter)
has vet struck. Curiously enough, the bov who
tied S.vd Cavill’s legs when ho started to experiment
at Honolulu was Duke Kahanamoku, who later,
using the famous stroke then about to he born,-
became an Olympic champion and fractured numer-
ous records.
Despite rumors to the contrary it is now
announced that the Honolulu bronze swimming mar-
vel, Duke Kahanamoku, will swoop down on Australia
this year and lend color to the Ma State’s Champion-
ship meeting at Sydney on January 2. fi and 9. After-
wards he will show at Brisbane, Melbourne, Hobart
and other beauty spots of this continent, and also in
Maoriland. Some slight alteration in the constitution
of the N.S.W. Amateur Swimming Association will
he necessary to allow the Duke and his dusky follow-
ing to compete in the championships, but that can be
taken as read.
* * * *
The overthrow of the English Ladies’
Hockey Team by the Canterbury girls at Christ-
church (M.L.), on September 12, was a spectacular
business. Canterbury is the home of hockey in
Loan Land, and the maidens there had trained for
weeks to bring the visitors low. Also, in place of
a mere team of brilliant individuals, a solid machine
had been built up, and this was hurled at the
hounding, red-skirted girls from ’Ome. The com-
bination of the Maori maidens smothered the attack,
and the flustered women from the Fog found that
they were not the only shells on the heach. They
went out by three to two, and the feathers of the
Canterbury girls need no curling these days.
4, * * *
The Melbourne public that endured of
vorc the catering of Hip Skinner firm (now deceased)
at the Agricultural Show, was sorry to hear that
the Greville Limited firm suffered considerably hv
the fire at the Show Ground. The refreshment
outfit under the grandstand- was destroyed, and
whereas the plant and stock were partly, insured,, the
loss of business had no set-off. Greville Limited,
starting business in Melbourne when food prices
were on the up-grade, has given better catering than
the old Skinner monopoly, which flourished in the
easier times. Either the management of the new
firm is smarter, or the profits of the old firm
were far over the odds. Anyhow, the statue of
Skinner, erected to his unblessed memory by his
Sowth Melbourne admirers, is a very deplorable
monument. It will delude posterity into the belief
that the man who used to sell a ha’porth of local
lager beer for 6d. to the Melbourne Cup crowd was
a famous public benefactor. Such monuments should
be forbidden by the Government. They are worse
than ridiculous.
The Yankee, when he does rise to the occa-
sion, does things properly. The directors of the
Vanderbilt Hotel Co., of New York, saw in the
papers that a large number of Americans were
stranded in Europe at the outbreak of war through
being unable to cash their drafts. An agent was
immediately dispatched with £lOO,OOO dol ars in gold
to assist those who had no money and to cash the
drafts of those who had. No United States citizen
was to be left behind, whether he had money or
not. A pub proprietary is usually a callous corpora-
tion, but the coves who run the Vanderbilt ave pure
patriots—or advertisers. Here s to em.
Sporting items from Adelaide: Lacrosse
ended with the Sturt men premiers—the fourth year
running. But they had an exciting finish, tor they
lost to University (playing extra time after a tie),
but winning 5 to 1 on a challenge match. Sturt dis-
trict also won the hockey premiership, but that game
is in Adelaide altogether overshadowed by lacrosse.
Ports, again football champions, not only went
through the season unbeaten but scored 1250 points
to 559. The other clubs, being pretty equal, all lost
more points than they made. North Adelaide took
what honor there was in being second. S.A. Rowing
Association loses its chairman of 15 years, George
Auld. Arthur Nicholls succeeds him. Racing has
iost, by death, William Robertson, of Turretfield, and
chairman of the Adelaide Racing Club for veais at
the end of the century. The “Patriotic meeting was
an enthusiastic success. Members of the S.A.J.O.
committee found the £6OO stake money, and all the
clubs were generous. Hawker nominated Ins Tringa
(who is to try her luck in Melbourne) in the name
of the Governor-General, and she won ; so did Lewis s
Mirabilite, which ran in the name of the Patriotic
Fund itself.
Griffiths , of America , adds insult to injury in
his tiff with Herb McCoy at Sydney Stadium.
Rod Heath, of Victoria, is the new tenuis
champion of Sydney—such things being possible
under the arrangement whereby, say, Brookes, of
Victoria, becomes champion of some small town in
Scotland, or Parke of Ireland becomes Australasian
champion. Heath met Wright (N.S.W.) in the final,
and the argument ran to four sets, the Victorian
taking the first, ' third and fourth. After having-
beaten E. L. .Tones and Heath three straight sets,
Wright and Alt .Tones met Morgan and Marsh in the
doubles semi-final, and the game went the way of
vouth after five sets. The two M’s now meet H.
Rice anti Clark in the final. Mrs. Ford is still lady
champion, having beaten Miss Collings on the post
for the very manyth time, and the same lady, with
Miss Cozens, took the doubles.
* * * *
Granville is the boss club of the N.S.W.
Soccer football division, having first captured the
Rawson Cup, and, on Saturday last, after a fine game
at Epping, Sydney, beaten the Newcastle champion
combination, Merewether. for the Gardiner Challenge
Cup, which carries with it the championship of the
State. Granville drew first blood, and then, repulsing
a determined rush by the Northern team, followed up
and scored a second goal. In the second half Mere-
wether put up a desperate struggle, but only suc-
ceeded in scoring one goal, and once more Granville
smashed its way through and drove home a third
score. So it won easily by three to one.
* * * *
“The larger the crowd the poorer the
play” seems to have been the rule in this season’s
Vic. football finals, and the only gaudy crowd at the
four matches, last Saturday's, saw the least attrac-
tive game of the lot. It numbered 30,437 all told,
as against last year's 59,479, and “pai’ted” £l4BO
165., of which £566 16s. 6d. went to the Patriotic
fund. Plav was fair up to half-time, South doing
most of the attacking but failing to achieve much
through complete lack of combination. Carlton, by
superior marking and surer kicking, held 38 points
to South’s 17 at the interval. In the third term the
Blues added nothing; in the fourth but seven points;
and during those 50min. South practically bombarded
their goal, yet could never get level. Their backs
were sure, their centres forwarded with certainty, but
the forwards either fumbled and lost the ball or took
long shots at impossible angles instead of playing for
position. Granted that Carlton’s backs were almost
unbeatable, they were only man for man, and a little
use of the head, a little combination, would have
given South the victory it deserved. As it was, the
Red-and-Whites lost the premiership by six points
only—four goals 15 behinds to Carlton’s six goals nine
behinds. This is Carlton's fourth pennant since the
League was formed, and its tenth since the beginning
of things. South has had bad luck, inasmuch as it
has been placed 10 times since ’9O. yet has been first
but once. But before that it was a mighty force,
and Peter Burns was a god in the land, and it grabbed
the flag and the honor five times in 10 years. Next
Saturday, by the grace of the weather-gods, the
cricket season starts full tilt. There is no peace,
saith the editor, to the sporting reporter.
Summer baseball in Sydney will start . oft’
with about 30 teams, divided into three grades. There
were only eight last year, so the new distraction nas
evidently caught on. This is probably to the detn-
ment of cricket. The only fly in the ointment is the
difficulty of finding playing grounds for all these
teams.
,T. Lewis, of Lithgow (N.S.W.), has
designed a new sort of aeroplane which, if not alto-
gether foolproof, will make sky-exploration much
safer. It is named the Gyroplane, and its secret is
alleged to dwell in the possession of two oscillating
internal propellers. The Gyro is also double-engined,
so that, if one engine goes on strike, the other will
keep the machine flying till concessions have been
made and the strike declared off. The new machine
should be popular with all parties, as the man who
watches an aeroplane soaring overhead runs the risk
of being crushed by the thing suddenly falling on
him, while the cove or bloke in it is no better off.
* * * *
The dirigible balloon invented by A. J.
Roberts, of Sydney—Australia’s first dirigible—
which was not successful when it ascended m Sydney
some time ago, made a second ascent in Melbourne
on Saturday. This time it did better, and the gods
smiled on it till, in an hour and a halt, it Md
sailed over the city and landed at Broadmeadows,
25 miles away. There was a slight accident to
the steering gear, but the pilot succeeded m maKn>„
the ground safely. Dirigibles are cranky animals.
-tt * * *
The way the War Office swooped down on
supplies of petrol throughout Britain just before
war was declared was a howling terror. M lly
managed to aide some supplies, and the puces, spot
cash, soared at one jump to ss. per gallon. In many
cases motor cyclists and carmen stranded on the
roadside, paid as high as 10s. 6d. per gallon,
were glad to do it.
The presence of half a dozen Queensland
pedallers gave the Speedwell (Sydney) 00-miles road
race quite an inter-State flavor. The struggle took
place over the Parramatta-Kingswood course °« Satui-
day last, when entrance fees from 260 entrants
swelled the Patriotic Fund by Vl6. Exactly 100
faced the starter. They ran out through the northern
end of Parramatta, skirted the fringe of the Hawkes-
burv country, and came into the ancient town on the
western side. The N.S.W. back-markers dropped out
and tlic Queenslanders became the virtual scratch men
from the one-minute point. The wild rush through
dust and dirt ended in a victory for J. Smith, from
the 10-minutes mark, in two hours 44mm. 40sec.,
with W. O. Collins (eight minutes 30see. handicap)
and .1 M. Keen (four minutes) second and third re-
spectively. The decrepit offspring of the North,
where the white man cannot grow, made a gallant
effort and filled seventh, eighth, ninth and eleventh
positions. Keen took the honors for the fastest time
in two hours 40 minutes two seconds, which was
eight minutes, 17 see. slower than V. Wylies record
of last year. #
R, .T. A. Massie, Sydney University's fast
bowler and Australia’s hope in the tests against Eng-
land, which were to have been played next year, has
volunteered for active wallop. He has hern handed
a commission as lieutenant in the Australian kxpedi-
tionary Force.
.* * * *
The gee-gees that bloom in the spring will
get their first testing at Flemington, as at Randwick.
on Saturday next (3rd), and the Cup meeting at
Caulfield starts a week later. Anna Carlovna, the
mare that somehow lost the C.C. to Aunter last year,
is expected to cut a dash at Flemington on Saturday.
Also, Greek Fire and other alleged animals with a
near future before them are likely to be doing their
best. V.R.C. October meeting has a record for sur-
prises.” If any astounding results are shrouded in
suspicion the “stipe” stewards will be earnestly ex-
pected to lift the shroud. It is quite time that a
few crafty battlers were court-martinlled and
“potted.” #
Of the Victorian contingent that has been
ordered to the front at Randwick the chances of
Rathlea and Radnor seem to be most promising. It
the latter lias a go for the Metropolitan he will, oar
accidents, shake up the best of the Sydney champions,
it is said. This time last year, by the way, Radnor
teas a Sydney champion, and, meanwhile, the son ot
Earlston has gone from good to better, maybe.
# * » *
“O’Cork” : At time of writing, there are
still 55 mokes left in the A..1.C. Epsom mile, to be
run next Saturday, at Randwick (Sydney), and 62 in
the Metropolitan mile-and-a-half, the chief event next
Monday (Eight-Hours Day). Final acceptances toi
both events won’t be known till this (Thursday)
afternoon. About 30 of the field listed for the
Epsom were, early this week, still listed for the
Metrop. Not infrequently a well-backed Epsom
runner has, to the dismay of punters, romped home
for the longer race run two days later. Taking all
chances, this scribe submits, as the fruits of his
Epsom lesearch, the following eight to supply the
place-getters at the end of the mile: Relievo (9st.
lib ), Aurifer (8«t. 91b.), Silver Lad (7st. 131 b.),
Willow Green (7st. 121 b.), Woolerina (7st. 101 b.),
Portrush (7st. 41b.), Sir Tarka (6st. 131 b.), Secrete
(fist. 71b.). The Newcastle stable, which won the lust
Melbourne Cup with Posinatus, shelters Woolerina
and Portrush. and the elect of the pair on. the day
should get among the bullion lifters. Sir Tarka
belongs to (and has been backed) by coal-baron John
Brown. Each of the others has done more or less
promising things of late. Out of the inevitable jostle
and scramble, Portrush or Woolerina should scrape
home from Relievo and Sir Tarka. The most likely
Metrop. bunch is: Lilvveil (9st. 61b.), Alured (9st.),
Posinatus (Bst. 121 b.), Aurifer (Bst. 71b.) —last-
named well in Melbourne Cup with Bst. 71b.—Psyttyx
(7st. 81b.), Waltz (7st. 41b.), Challenge Cross, owned
bv John Brown (7st. 21b.), Sir Tarka (6st. 111 b.).
For places: Aurifer, 1; Psyttyx, 2; Waltz, 3.
• * * •
When Willie Ritchie got back to the
States after losing his lightweight championship to
Freddie Welsh in London he squealed louder than
did the Gadarenc swine as they took their famous
plunge down a steep place. Ritchie does not strike
one as being a sport. He squibbed and side-stepped
the battle for all he was worth, and, finally, fought
only when he got everything, and the man who beat
him got nothing. He practically took every shilling
in the house and a bit more, if the London reports
are true, and the promoters had to pay some of his
guaranteed money out of capital. Freddie Welsh got
nothing but the glory of defeating the most unsports-
manlike George Washington who ever chased dollars.
However,, the victory brought Welsh quite a lot of
cash. Music-hall and vaudeville engagements siinnlv
rained in on him. Ritchie is now howling for a
return match in November, and Welsh’s manager
smiles grimly and says, “Certainly, on our condi-
tions, which are (1) The same terms as Ritchie gave
Welsh, viz.. £3OOO guarantee, with the privilege of
getting 50 per cent, of the gate receipts if they
amount to more than £3OOO, and £2OOO for his
cinematographic interests: 421 Ritchie must make
the £5OOO side bet he stated he was willing to stake
on a battle in the U.S.A. ; (3) he must make 9st. 71b.
ringside.” On these conditions Welsh will fight in
California within six months of the day Ritchie puts
up that side bet. But everybody knows Ritchie would
not risk 5000 farthings, let alone pounds.
* * * *
The outbreak of war hit the fighting sec-
tion just where it lived. A& far as France and Eng-
land are concerned, fights for big purses are over till
Kaiser Bill and Franz Josef are counted out. The
U.S.A. is hard hit by the war, and Australia is not
feeling as flush as it used to. But, all the same,
the bruise merchant is sure of some money in both
the U.S.A. and Australia if he can deliver the goods
in hefty style, and these two countries have, for the
time being] become the sole stay and support of the
craft. Everywhere else boxers will have to either go
to work or get into the ranks. Since war started
Reg Baker has been inundated with cables from
France, Britain and the United States almost begging
for contracts.
Sam Langford, the sawn-off ebony giant
who blew out the candle of McVea in this country
under the pugilistic reign of Mclntosh, is back in the
U.S.A., and has fallen into flesh. He weighs lost.
101 b., has a paunch like a keg], and possesses
layers and festoons of fat hanging from every part
of him where fat can grow. Xo amount of training
could ever get him properly fit again; also he dis-
likes training, and has grown insufferably lazy. He
no longer wants to fight Jack Johnson —he is no
longer able. These days he lingers superfluous in the
pugilistic game to pick up cheap money only.
Fred Storbeck, the South African heavy-
weight, will meet Bill Lang, ot* Melbourne and
Australia, at Sydney Sports Ground on Monday next,
and some heavy fighting is expected. Storbeck is
being coached in the finer points of the game by
Dave Smith, one of the best modern boxers Australia
has produced, while the hefty Gordon Coghill and
hard-hitting young Les Darcy supply him with rougher
practice. He trains at the Spit, Sydney. Lang is
located at Sutherland, also near Sydney, and is said
to be in great fettle and faster than ever he was,
Still, these are the yarns always heard before fights,
and when the clay of battle arrives the spectator goes
home with a profound conviction that some —a few
at least-sporting writers are what King . David an
his wrath said all men were.
* * * *
The riot between George Brewer, of
N.S.W., and William Carrie, of Vic., at Melbourne
Athletic Pavilion on Saturday night, was a hard-
slogged affair. The men were tough as steel, and
as crassly unscientific as it was possible to be.
That is to say, they did not know how to protect
themselves, and the result was a fine, vimful en-
gagement, fought with great courage and endurance
and scrupulous fairness. Brewer had kicked the
beam at list. 71b., and Carrie had weighed but one
pound less. The condition of both was the best
possible. The opening rounds were fought on a
give-and-take basis, and neither gladiator could
c laim any advantage at the end of the first five.
Brewer seemed to have less sting in his wallops
than Carrie, but made up for it by hitting a trifle
more frequently. Also, he was less sure on his
pins, and slipped down several times while endeavor-
ing to give a display of the light fantastic. Came
fell on his right “lamp” and cut it badly, and lie
also succeeded in altering* the graceful contoiu of
Brewer's right ear with a left hook. It fell on
Brewer’s listener with a thud that made that young
man reel and see stars. And then, smothering any
natural objurgations which might have got loose.
Brewer Waded into Carrie in great style, and did
considerable damage. At the end of 15 rounds
honors were just about even. Then Carrie, while
retreating, stopped something—a blow, not a beer—
and went down for a second. W hen he got up it
was reminiscent of the rising of Bhodenc Dhu or
the case of Tloratius, who sprang “like a wild cat
mad with wounds.” He sprang at Brewer with
both fists and all his soul, and a wild time ensued.
In the 19th Carrie sprang at him again, and got
home some heavy right and left swings to the
head and face. Carrie stood off for a moment,
drew a deep breath, and then let fly another broad-
side which sent Brewer down for a couple of seconds.
When he got up he seemed about done, hut so was
Cari-ie. who was too exhausted to deliver the knock-
out In the last session Brewer recovered and
made it woolly till towards the end, when his steam
gave out and he hung on considerably. There was
not much between them, but the referee awarded
ilio large end of the purse to Brewer.
• * * *
The same night, in Sydney Stadium,
Herbert McCoy (9st. 101 b.) was waging tierce ami
scientific war against Johnny Griffith, of \ ankee-
land (9st. 341 b.), amidst tremendous excitement.
It was a determined effort, fought at a great pace
and with considerable skill. Griffith was endowed
with a longer reach than McCoy, and was as light
on his feet as Adeline Genee, and lie moved round
the ring faster and more aerially than even the
great Mat Wells himself. On the other hand,
McCoy,, though not so light and graceful, seemed to
get there and send home twelve pence for every
shilling. In fact, never did McCoy let himself
i*'o before in Sydney as he did on Saturday night.
He hurled himself in with a mixture of utter reck-
lessness and brainy method that staggered the
young American friend. McCoy’s saving grace is
that, no matter how hard he is hashed, so long as lie
is not knocked out, he hits back, and hits so hal'd
that even- wallop tells a story. McCoy seemed to
prefer that the American should do the bulk of the
leading, so that ho could block and follow up.
Griffith p,aid considerable attention to the body, but
McCoy very cleverly took the bulk of the blows on
his elbows or gloves, and smashed back with when-
ever fist was free. In the close-in fighting Griffith
generally scored first, but just as things began to
look rosy, McCoy would send along his little con-
signment, and he frequently made the American glad
to let go. Still, one always had the uncomfortable
feeling that, although Griffith might knock out
McCoy with a single punch, there was no chance
of McCoy doing the same by Griffith. In fact, in
the ninth, Griffith once nearly scored that way.
McCoy, charging in, met a counter, and as he reeled
back Griffith followed up with heavy rights and
lefts, and had the Australian in a bad way. men
he lost his head and hit very wildly indeed, and
the gong brought McCoy respite. When the Aus-
tralian came out again he had quite recovered, and
was as wary as a cat, and blocked and returned
with splendid skill. Griffith is evidently accustomed
to short, 10-round scraps. After the 11th he slowed
down considerably. His brilliant foot-worlc lost its
glitter. But still he fought on fiercely enough. lu>
left eye was cut, and his mouth w*as badly battered,
and McCoy was easily the fresher and more skilful.
Anv margin of points Griffith had accumulated in
the' first half was wiped off, and but for occasional
brilliant, flashes on his part McCoy would have had
a big credit balance. In fact, - writer thought /
had, but when the final gong sounded cease wal-
loping,” Harald Baker placed his long, white, aristo-
cratic hands on the heads of both boxers, and so
declared it a drawn battle.
(Continued on page 36.)


T.C.WiuiamsCs
p Rich mono, p -
S
WHITE ROM
S*t* A«*«t fAT ‘
A. M. SOLOMON.
I T* PITT STPCCT. STONeT
"WHITE ROSE”
TOBACCO
Pipe smokers who prefer a tobacco with a
pleasant aroma, that always smokes cool
—that never varies—should trv “White
Rose.” It is one of T. C. Williams
Co.’s (Virginia, C.S.A.) famous high-
grade Tobaccos It is put up in one
strength only (Medium).
4oz. tins, 2/-; Boz. tins, 3/9; lib.
tins, 7/6; Plug Form, 7/- lb.
Postage: lib., N.S.W., 9d.; Inter-State,
1/2.
Write for a copy of my Illustrated Cata-
log of Tobacco, Cigars, Cigarettes, etc. —
tree on request.
a. n. solohon
“ Cigar Expert,”
173 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Automobile Club of
Australia’s
Half=Gallon Petrol
Consumption Test
held on Saturday, 25/7/’ l4.
First FOUR Places
•. . Secured on ...
Shell Benzine
HEND]
[GCQ
OTO~
eles
7-h.p. Twin, Free-engine,
3-inch Tyres, £6B.
Hen dee Manufacturing Co.
109 Russell Street, Melbourne, VIC.
Send for Catalog D.
THE SHOE FOR THE BUSINESS MAN
?;K
is the RIGNEY, because it has such a
smart and distinctive appearance.
No business man can afford to be indifferent
to his footwear, and that is why so many
business men wear RIGNEY SHOES.
The illustration shows a Tan Willow Calf
Three-button Shoe, Smart American Shape,
Brown Cloth Insertion Tops, “Non-Tread-
Over’ Brand. Best English manufacture.
Price - - 32/6
Also in Patent Leather, 32/6 and 357-
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Building's, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
OSTER
When it comes to Threading Tubes
tliei e is a special tool to fit your particular use
in the Oster line. 20 years of specialisation
guarantees their quality—an Oster means
clean threads quickly cut.
FOR SALE BY LEADING DEALERS
IN ALL CITIES.
The Oster Mfg\ Co.
Cleveland, 0., U.S.A.
OSTER
WATCH BRACELETS
liayq superseded the long chains of late
fashion, and very fetching they are.
Extremely handsome as Bracelets—sensible
and useful as Watches —they appeal to a
,at W m these days of “no pockets.”
.1° ko of use, however, they must be
reliable works. An ordinary movement will
not stand the constant jar and motion of wear.
Alt our Watch Bracelets aye specially
made for hard wear, and they are not onlv
lenabie, but are profoundly accurate. Each
Watch is guaranteed for 15 years, and kept
in order without charge for two rears break-
ages excepted. ' v
We make these Bracelets, and so save all
duty charges thereon. Plain Figures—Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, Ltd..
atent
exp
c 'Sr
-V.C.OC
SSf’pS* l ’!'; ‘'"lWewclled Lever Watch, ,et
.Set with Diamonds, from £35
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 8 35 Hunter Street
ON THE HOP!
Es-r?s=l ««
I'rn.KTrx size Price! 21s! lWll ’ gS - Fn,]
®Sf|
lIV
BOSISTO’S
“ parrot"
BRAND »»
EUCALYPTUS OIL.
j
■ ■
mm mgmmmtmm
Hi a iiii
.
. • - . " ■■■;■',«:■
-i
iMfgfK
■■ r '*
I;
J*
■
:
■1 Wmamm
■■
:■
.
j
-y ':'-. I|M Wmti
:
~.V | . ■ :
0m
i
m mg
r\
Bosisto’s “Parrot Brand** Eucalyptus Oil, I
the Famed Remedy for Rheumatism, Sprains, I
Bruises,Wounds, Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis
/
*
111
'•iiSS
'
•'-V\ '
V''.;
V
■
;■
I H H
’ < ■ ..
7! j :
p
: 1 i
.#
- ■
■' .', SJ
V ‘ J
Si ■
gH
,
ipifiifS
■ ....
:■
fcliSiilSKSat
J
i
7
S li*
111
.
i
.
‘WFPNWtfp
2
m
UNDERWEAR
THAT
WILL
KEEP YOU COOL
Underwear specially constructed
to meet the needs of wearers in
Tropical Climates—Underwear that
will do all that Underwear can do,
to give comfort in Hot Weather.
Underwear that will wash safely
and wear weII—THAT is the
Underwear we are offering you now
at absolutely Bedrock Prices.
“ Aertex ” Cellular Underwear.
Its Cellular Construction causes
an immediate absorption of the
perspiration and as speedily Allows
it to Evaporate, thus leaving the
Skin Dry and Cool and at an even
temperature.
SINCLETS, 4/- ; PANTS (full length), 5/6.
PANTS (knee-length), 4/6; COMBINATIGNS, 7 6.
Indian Gauze Underwear.
Its Fine Texture, its Soft Sur-
face, and its Quick-Drying pro-
perties make Indian Gauze one of
the most desirable materials for
Underwear.
SINCLETS, 4/-; PANTS, 4/6.
POST YOUR ORDER and your
Goods will reach you by return.
We Guarantee Satisfaction and
WE —PAY —FREIGHT.
Lincoln Stuart
& Co. Pty. Ltd.,
"Outfitters by Mail,”
244=254 Flinders Street
Melbourne.


Are you among those who
reason in this fashion:
“ All this talk about * Acid-
Mouth’ may be all right—
but it dosen’t apply to me.
I haven’t got ‘Acid-Mouth,
I take scrupulous care of
my teeth.”
Let us put this question to
you : “ How do you know
you aren’t among the 19
out of every 20 who do
have ‘ Acid-Mouth?’ Have
you tried the ‘ Acid-Mouth
test ?’
“If you want to have the best chance
in the world to keep your teeth for
life —use Pebeco Tooth Paste.”
Pebeco Tooth Paste does all that
ordinary dentifrices do — cleans, whitens
and polishes teeth beautifully. In
addition it stops 95 per cent, of all
tooth-decay by neutralizing "Acid-
Mouth.”
Send 3d stamps for sample tube and
interesting test of Acid-mouth. Of
all Chemists.
G. ARNOLD, 6 O’Connell Street,
Sydney (wholesale only).
g£S?PEDIC POMADE for THE HEAD
Strikes infesting vermin dead. One applica-
tion destroys vermin, kills nits, heals sores, cures
ringworm, and makes the hair grow thick and
curly. Kills lice on live stock.
Sydney Agents: Talbots, 206 George Street;
and Washington Soul. Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, or posted from J. Brin, Chemist,
East Malvern, Vic.—l/2, 2/3, 3/9, and with Nit
Comb, 6d. extra.
' •
y
Washable
Tubular
Ties
Ask for Cash’s
Seamless
Poplin
Ties
Ask for Cash's
The Principal, Saxon School.
IT’S WAR TIME!
and we must all become
PHYSICALLY Perfect
I OFFER
£lOO
in Prize Money
And 50 Gold Medals.
To win these Prizes you require
Absolutely No Previous Experience.
and “In Your Own Home.”
But Remember your inquiry Must be
with us by October 31. Enclose Six Penny
Stamps and obtain Post Free full particulars of
the Great Saxon War Competition,
together with the “Saxon Book” describing
Great Saxon Physical Culture in full.
Write Now to—
THE SAXON SCHOOL
BUREAU No. 21,
ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE.
Yes, Tell Your Friends-
“Yes, It Gives a Queenly
Complexion QuicRly, Surely.
toilet talks.
THE average woman of to-day is usually
satisfied if her complexion is _ passably
pretty, little knowing that an exquisite skin
is now within her reach, providing she has
the good sense to stop using cheap made-up
preparations, and adopt what has now be-
come known as the mercolised wax habit.
It is a pity that every woman in the land
cannot be apprised of this simple method.
The few to whom its virtues are already
known have complexions that, are the envy
of all their friends, and, as is usually the
case, the majority of them refuse to divulge
the secret. However, the formula has now
been verified, and is known as
mercolised wax. Enquiry at
several chemists’ shops has re-
sulted in ascertaining that this
substance has been known to
the select few for some years as
a complexion beautifier, but it
is only until quite recently that
it has been used to any extent
for this purpose. It was also
explained how mercolised wax
renews the complexion, but as
this is rather technical it is not
proposed to repeat it here. It
will be sufficient to say that
through some peculiar action the
wax absorbs the dead and dis-
colored outer cuticle, revealing the fresh
voung complexion which every woman has
underneath. The process occupies about ten
days, and the change is so gradual and im-
perceptible that no discomfort whatever is
caused. The treatment is perfectly harm-
less. and the wax may be used as often as
desired.
TVTOW what about that shampoo? Pro-
J3I sumably like a good many others you
follow blindly in the beaten track, without
a moment’s thought as to where it will
eventually lead you. It is an impossibility
to expect the same make of shampoo to suit
each individual head of hair. In some cases
it would take out too much of the natural
oil, and in others not enough. Fair folks
require a milder shampoo than those with
dark tresses: therefore the logical course to
pursue is. to make your own shampoo and
graduate the strength according to the sus-
ceptibilities of your hair. The brush will
tell you whether you are treating the hair
properly. Like a plant in congenial soil the
hair will grow and flourish providing the
conditions are right; but abuse it as most
women do by washing it with some stiong
alkaline solution and the effect is practically
the same as if you poured weed-killer over
growing plants. Before leaving the subject
I should like to mention that a few months
ago my local chemist recommended me to try
ordinary stallax in place of the usual made-
up powders, and I must say that
this substance, to my mind,
forms an ideal medium for the
purpose mentioned. If anything
it makes the hair rather too
fluffy and wavy, but some folks
prefer it so.
IT is astonishing the number
of women who suffer from
the humiliating affliction of
superfluous hair, and I am sorry
to say that through ignorance
or wrong treatment, the majority
of them have made matters con-
siderably worse by causing the
hairs to grow more quickly and
strorger than before. It only requires
a little thought to realise the folly
of it all. Removing the surface growth
for a few days may give temporary
relief, but in order to obtain per-
manent results the hair roots must be
killed. Caustic depilatories are worse than
useless, and on no account should the
hairs be pulled out. Apart from the
electric needle, which is a costly and pain-
ful process, any chemist will tell you
that the best home treatment is pure pow-
dered pheminoh which has a devitalising
effect upon the hair roots, in addition to
which it removes all trace of the objection-
able hair in a few seconds, and the
recommended treatment gradually, but surely,
dissolves out the hair follicles, which
is the only method of permanently ridding
oneself of this terrible disfigurement.
The Royal
Tonic —
The Tonic
of Queens !
m
rj
PHOSFERI
dose.
v*<«\nrvl
tt - C ><Jt. *•* <0 *■<*••*l
Id Nlf'KltA'rW !>•« J»«|V
*MI W;*UP.H »t*«V **l ,!
UNDb* SiVfK<*»»*
toJimiwr ir ashtoiuw
%
-
Phosferine
This is unexcelled as a Nerve Tonic
—a proven remedy for Nervous De-
bility, Influenza, Indigestion, Sleep-
lessness, Exhaustion, Neuralgia, Ma-
ternity Weakness, Premature Decay,
Mental Exhaustion, Loss of - Appetite,
Lassitude, Neuritis, Faintness, Brain-
Fag, Anaemia, Backache, Rheumatism,
Headache, Hysteria, Sciatica and dis-
orders consequent upon a reduced state
of the nervous system.
Beware of imitations! The Genu-
ine Phosferine is in a buff package,
labelled ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD.,
LONDON.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT ALL
CHEMISTS.
£
r a
m
Free
Play
Most Famous Sliding Cord
Brace in the World
Sold Everywhere
21-
Get the Genuine
DUPLEX
Mast be Stamped
on Backle .
Guaranteed l
OH THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards ot ihrec
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. hull
Bulletin size- Price. 21s.
“Kaniva”: While Poverty Pointers are
decrying or praising up Pinero, Grundy and
co., a playwriter has arisen in U.S.A. who
has a right to demand some attention. This
is Miss Alice Brown, of Boston, who, out of
1600 competitors, has annexed a prize of
£2OOO advance royalties on the basis of 10
per cent, of the gross receipts, and whatever
she can get afterwards. The judges had a
job of ten months running through the
efforts sent in, and the decision for the lady
was unanimous. She is 57 years _of age
and had not written a long play previously.
“Cracked Tenor”: The veteran Wilhelm
Ganz, who has perished in England and
been deposited in God’s Acre, was best
known to Australians as the man who com-
posed “Sing, Sweet Bird.” He claimed
that it was he who introduced Melba to the
British public. When she went from Aus-
tralia to London, in 1886, Mrs. Nellie Arm-
strong, as she then was, took a letter of
introduction to Ganz. “But,” as he said
afterwards, “I didn’t need any letter of
introduction, for her beautiful voice was
sufficient recommendation.” Anyway, he
arranged that she should sing at one of the
Royal Theatrical fund banquets. There,
strange to say, Augustus Harris, when she
sang Gounod's “Ave Maria,” heard this
familiar music for the first time. Also,
Melba sang on that occasion, “Sing, Sweet
Bird.” She made such an impression that
Carl Rosa offered her an engagement as his
prima donna. An appointment was made
to meet at Ganz’s house on the following
Tuesday to fix terms. Ca,rl Rosa scribbled
the date on his shirt cuff. But he failed to
keep the appointment through sheer forget-
fulness, and so Melba, who hoped by this
engagement to get a footing in musical Lon-
don, decided to go to Paris and take lessons
from Marches!. Carl Rosa’s forgetfulness
was really a great blessing in disguise; for
had Melba joined his co.. without the finish-
ing touches which the Voice obtained from
Marches!, she might have been travelling
round the English provinces for years, and
possibly never have seen Covent Garden.
Still, the fault was not Ganz’s. He did his
best for the unknown singer, and deserved
every credit. Old Ganz had a wonderful
record. He saw a great many musicians
come and go in London, and his memory
carried him back to the time when he was
accompanist to Jenny Lind in her tour of
England and Scotland in 1856, and even
farther back than that. It all sounds like
a century and a half avo knocking on its
coffin with its own shin-bone.
“Harrison O.”: Press critics in London
were surprised that “Who’s the Lady?”
passed the censor. The farce, now at Mel-
bourne Princess’s, is certainly somewhat
tropical, but the fact that it is French pro-
bably influenced the Bull official. Its prin-
cipal character is a giddy Minister for Jus-
tice, who promotes a tenth-rate provincial
judge to a high position on. the bench in
Paris, so that he (the Minister) may be
near the lady who is misunderstood to be
the judge’s wife. In due course this angel
visits the Minister at the department, and
becomes segregated from most of her clothes.
At a time when the Bull public was being
fed with Marconi shares scandals, an exam-
iner of plays, appointed by the Liberal
Government, probably reckoned that no great
harm would come from allowing a piece in
which figure high Government officials of
another country, beside whom Lloyd-George
must appear a lily and Rufus Isaacs a gentle
Jew from Heaven. Viewing “Who’s The
Lady?” disheartened British Liberals pro-
bably garnered consolation from the reflec-
tion‘that, at any rate, there was no evidence
that the Master of Elibank made a practice
of kissing beauty spots on the necks of
musical comediennes, and that undressed
females at Somerset House were prohibited
under Regulation 7848.
“Coot”: Died recently in London at a
ripe old age, Wilhelm Ganz, professor of
singing at the Guildhall School, eminent
pianist, and composer of old-time favorite
songs, such as “Sing, Sweet Bird,” “I Seek
for Thee in Every Flower,” “The Nightin-
gale’s Trill,” and innumerable other melo-
dies. Born in Mayence 1833; arrived in
London 1848. At once became a member of
Her Majesty’s Theatre orchestra under
Balfe. Up to 1912 was in great demand
as a pianist. Possessor of more foreign
orders than any other musician of his day.
Conductor of New Philharmonic Concerts
from 1874 to 1879, then continued the series
as Ganz’s Orchestral Concerts until recent
times. In 1898 was tendered a compli-
mentary jubilee concert, when the following
distinguished artists appeared to do him
honor: Patti, Marchesi, Engel, Gomez, Ada
Crossley, Clara Butt, Edward Lloyd, Ken-
nerley Rumford, Santley,. Wolff, Charles
Wyndham, Geo. Grossmith and Cyril Maude.
Again, in 1908, was tendered a diamond
jubilee concert. Three years later, owing to
his continued ill-health and financial losses,
Mrs. Patti, at whose marriage he had acted
as best man, arranged a great benefit concert
for him.
“Kaniva”: “11.M.5. Pinafore,” the last
of the Gilbert and Sullivan revivals pro-
duced at Her Majesty’s, Melbourne, was
the first of the G. and S. operas played in
that city. It will be news to thousands to
read that it was produced in two houses
on the same evening, on June 7, 1879. The
Stewart family staged it at St. George’s
Hall, with the following cast: Josephine,
Docy Stewart; Sir Joseph Porter, Richard
Stewart; Buttercup, Maggie Stewart; Dick
Deadeye, Geo. Leopold; Captain Corcoran,
B. Anthony; Ralph Rackstraw, Nellie Stew-
art ; Harcourt Lee, conductor. This per-
formance lasted two weeks. Their rivals,
at the Academy of Music, gave a much
superior performance. The talented and
beautiful Alice Lingard was Josephine, and
a charming portrayal she gave of the char-
acter. W. Horace Lingard’s Sir Joseph
was a rare performance. Buttercup was in
the care of Mrs. J. L. Hall (Jessie Gray) ;
Dick Deadeye. J. L. Hall: Captain Cor-
coran, John Forde; and Ralph Rackstraw.
as played and sung by R. L. Skinner, could
hardly hr beaten. Van Ghile was the con-
ductor. The show ran seven weeks.


mm
I
* ■»
w S*,
H.M.A.S. Australia, cleared for action, just before her departure from Sydney Harbor, 4th August, 1914.
Buy Pianos made by Your
Compatriots Only.
It’s Treason to do Business with the
Enemies of the Ring', but Don’t Buy
Other Foreig'n Goods.
m
Your Money is Needed in the Empire.
BEALE & COMPANY LIMITED
Head Office and Factories: TRAFALGAR, NELSON and COLLINS STREETS, ANNAN DALE, N.S.W.
City Showrooms: 136a=136b LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
George Street, Bathurst
70 Hunter Street, Newcastle
Yass Street, Young
Wagga
Lismore
Orange
131 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.
Argent Street, Broken Hill
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane, Q’iand.
Townsville
Rockhampton
Maryborough
Cairns
Mackay
839 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
273 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vie


Allcocks
Plasters
The World's Greatest
External Remedy.
Pains in the Back
Allcock's Plasters have no equal.
Strengthen Weak Backs
as nothing else can.
Pains in the Side
Allcock's Plasters relieve promptly
and at the same time
strengthen side and restore energy.
Allcock's is the original and genuine porous plaster.
It is a standard remedy, sold by chemists in every part
of the civilized world. Apply wherever there is Pain.
When you need a Pill Purel y vegetable.
take a Brandreth's Pill < Est -
For Constipation, Biliousness, Headache, Dizziness, Indigestion, Etc.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CO., Birkenhead, England.
TO-DAY it is the fashion to strike an individual
note in one’s shoes, and it is very
This personal note is attained by fully recog-
nising I heir dress value and by giving a little
extra thought io their selection. There is scope for
the exercise of a nice’, discriminating taste in
linstocks’ exclusive styles. They harmonise perfectly
with the newest toilettes and are the cream of
imported shoes.
Special shipments have recently arrived at the lead-
ing stores, and ladies should call before the choicest
styles are sold.
800
M
£
m
Style 594
0
<
pi
£
V
*
<eoo3
«•
Alcock
and
Pierce's
Fishing Tackle
Is just as good as
“AP” celebrated
Guns & Cartridges
Get Preliminary List now, so as to
get your Tackle into shape ready
for the Season.
This Department is in charge of one of
the most experienced anglers in Victoria,
and any information you want, write to
“ Angling Department,”
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
318 little Callins St. Melbourne
Hotel Stewart
SAN FRANCISCO
A high-class hotel very favorably known to
travellers from Australia, New Zealand and
the Orient. Headquarters for Britishers in
San Francisco. New steel and concrete stiuc-
ture. Third annex just completed. 000
rooms. 250 connecting bathrooms. Lvery
comfort and convenience. Beautifully fur-
nished Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping, theatre
and cafe districts. On street car lines to all
parts of city. Our omnibuses with uni-
formed attendants meet all steamers and
trains. Travellers are urged to make reser-
vations bv letter or wireless to be assured
the most 'satisfactory accommodation. Cable
address, “Trawets. ’
Rooms with Meals, 16s. a day and up.
Rooms without Meals, Bs. a day and up.
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
Proprietors.
L
SIMPLY PERFECT!
That’s the exclamation you make when you
shave with a
“PLUM” RAZOR,
The superiority of this razor is most marked.
The hlade is of finest silver steel with a keen
edoo that cuts as clean as a whistle. No
tugging or tearing—but a smooth, easy shave
that gives perfect satisfaction. We are practi-
cal tradesmen, and know the kind of edge a
razor requires.
SEND FOR A “PLUM”—
10/0 post free.
We guarantee to keep it in good order for
two years free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Sinsle Razor, Ivory Handle,
15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
All the Above Post Free.
Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG &. AITH.EN,
c .e 4, GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
° s + & ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
Uncle Sam, guessing that the chock in
Europe would be busy, surprised Sussex -
street, Sydney, on September IS by firing
in an order for about 400.000 eggs. The
price offered was lod., while eggs were being
hawked all down the street at lOd. This
news, with the promise of more orders from
'Frisco, quite braced up the local hen cherry
market.
* * * *
The regulation issued lately by N.S.W.
Works Minister Griffith, declining to turn his
Department into a debt-collecting agency, is
reported to be having a good effect. The
hairy storekeeper, at the head of the creek
and the liorse-trucker at the foot of the gully
used, when a batch of men were put on to
repair a road or build a culvert, to load up
the party with boots, trousers and dubious
horses. Then, when the company melted away-
leaving debts behind, the traders would send
the account confidently to Arthur Griffith or
some of his myrnfidons for collection. In the
large centres traders acted similarly. Griffith,
therefore, notified all and sundry and others
that creditors must avail themselves of the
civil processes, as his Department would do
no more of that ltiiid of scavenging. Where-
fore, the remarks of the hairy store-thief down
the crick and the bandy horse-crook at the
gully’s head arc fit only to fry sausages with.
* * * *
“Gordon G.”: The method of conducting
“branch offices” of many solicitors in Vic. is
fast becoming a public scandal. The prac-
tice (and it’s a rapidly growing one) is tor
the big Gentlemen One, especially in Mel-
bourne, to send out clerks of less or more ex-
perience to manage branch offices, trading, of
course, under the firm’s name. The clerks
have no strictly legal qualifications other
than those acquired in the ordinary way of
office routine; they are almost invariably
under no supervision; and they mostly toil on
a percentage and commission basis of a fishy
•ind unmistakable odor. Result is larsreli
muddle and hush-up. The small Gentlemen
One are very often squeezed out by the
money-and-influence opposition, and, not in-
frequently, are forced into debt-collecting or
some such dog-kennel job. Also, the client
doesn’t get a square deal, as he naturally
thinks he is getting advice from a qualified
and averagely competent peraon. The shock
of the awakening is in many cases as costly
as it is sudden. The whole swindle, should
have been nipped years ago. The Vic. Law
Institute is said to have the matter in hand,
and to be considering it and looking into it,
and also giving it the requisite attention.
‘•Hamer”: A S. M. Herald correspondent,
advocating that awards should be suspended,
quoted as one example of the condi-
tions prevailing in regard to employment
that a “time-payment collector told me that
he only collected one shilling on Monday
last out of 200 calls.” Two hundred
seems a pretty large book for one da>. and
the correspondent was probably not strictly
reliable; yet, the fact that the time-payment
merchant will have to do without his weekly
instalments from hundreds of his customers
is undoubtedly correct. Many people who
have paid a substantial sum off their time-
payment homes, and nearly purchased their
time-payment furniture, will have to let the
usual instalments hang over until the un-
employment rocks are passed. And however
promptly they resume business when times
improve, the fact of their failure will
place them absolutely at the mercy of the
t.-p. house vendor or furniture merchant.
The t.-p. person is in many cases not very
scrupulous. While the dislocation caused
by the war continues he is likely to remain
the very pattern of benevolence. It would
be, during that period, little advantage to
him to get re-possession of his house, or to
take his furniture back, for nobody is think-
ing of buying houses, or investing much in
furniture. But, when normal conditions
return, accompanied probably by a renewed
or increased, demand for houses and chattels,
many poor instalment slaves are likely to
be staggered by demands for the immediate
fulfilment of the terms of the agreement.
Probably hundreds of them will be beaten
(in proper, legal fashion) out of the sums
they have painfully paid. So many people
are" likely to be affected that the question
of giving them some legislative protection
should be considered by the Government. It
might easily be done by a simple Lit _of
emergency legislation extending the period
for payment provided hi all such agreements
by the period during which the war lasts.
* * * *
“Machete”: “Do Oriel’s” beetles (B.
20/8/T4) are found all over the N.Q. sugar
country. It is the grub, and not the actual
beetle, which causes the trouble by boring
the cane. If Maekay folk are, as “De O.”
states, paying for beetles by the pound, they
have a thing or two to learn. When the
beetles first appeared in the Cairns country
some years ago (they came from Java), the
local kiddies had a profitable time collecting
them at (Id. per pound. Then a grower dis-
covered that the guileless infants had been
soaking their catch in water before weighing
in, with a resulting increase of about 25 per
cent, “on the hoof.” as the cattle buyers say.
After that, up Cairns way at least, beetles
were bought by the quart, wet or dry. Yet
you will find people who tell you that a
tropical climate saps the qualities of initia-
tive and enterprise in the rising generation.
‘■M. Peet”: Tremendous excitement
existed the other day outside the office (or
cathedral) of the Sydney Moaninu
Herald. I was there and can vouch for
the said excitement. Crowds congregated
round a gang of brown-armed, hard-faced
battlers who were hauling with vigor upon
a stout rope. There was one rope with 17
men hanging on to it. The end of the rope
that was out of action was coiled up like
a cobra or an old loan waiting to spring.
The other end was out of sight. It dis-
appeared into a square hole from which a
trap or lid. about two feet square, had been
removed, and across the mouth of the hole
referred to there was laid _a stout stick,
capped with brass. The 17 men pulley-
hauled with vigor (as before mentioned),
but nothing seemed to happen, occur, even-
tuate or absquatulate, as far as I could see.
The clock on the S. M. Herald cathedral
(or office) door said 10.20 a.m. I watched
the gang (also the rope, which seemed to
end in the bowels of the earth) until 10.30
a.m., and I think it (the gang) recovered
about seven feet before T left. The strain
(like the aforesaid excitement) seemed tre-
mendous. Beads of perspiration gathered
on my brow as I waited and watched that
heroic effort to drag up the corpse—if it
was a corpse—from the depths. Knots of
onlookers, with their backs turned to the
war-pictures, gazed as if beer-bound on the
terrific efforts of the gang to get that rope
up. The Fearful Mystery was not revealed
while I was there. For all I know the gang
is hauling madly yet. I wish I knew what
was on the other end of the rope. Was it
the S. M. Herald policy V Or were the 1 1
pullers trying to extract another loan from
Uncle at the antipodes? This suspense is
awful.
“D.” ; This is the first war in history, so
far as T am aware, that is known simply as
“The War.” There was the B’African
War and the Russo-Jap War. and the
Spanish-American War. and the Napoleonic
Wars, and about a million others, each with
a distinctive name. Distinction was pos-
sible, because they were all more or less
sectional. But this is a war in winch prac-
tically the whole civilised world is engaged.
It may be that history will have to indicate
it by some negative title, such as the non-
Icelandic War, though, by the present 100.,
of things, even Iceland may be impelled to
take a hand presently. When the Dale
Lama is found moving almost anything in .e
way of remote action may be expected.
THE BREAKING POINT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A drunk rolled into a furniture shop in Welling-
ton (M.L.), the other day, and smashed a lot of
furniture, including a large plate-glass mirror.
When asked for the reason of this, he explained he
“didn't like the look of the place.”
—Daily paper news.
Weep for the shattered chiffonier,
Weep for the oak-stained duchess pair.
Weep for the sets of toilet ware,
Weep, 0 ye suburbs, weep and pray!
No longer will they tempt you there,
Marked down by ten per cent, to clear;
Weep for them, suburbs, weep away 1
The mantelpiece that might have graced,
With lines of true suburban taste,
Your Queen Anne villa, is defaced ;
It is no more; no more, alas!
The nearest weapon, in his haste,
The drunkard seized, and deftly placed
Instanter through its mirrored glass.
Weep, Misses Smith and Hyphen Jones:
Blend all your tears and merge your moans,
llowl ye your Recliabitish groans,
Let sorrow have its fullest sway !
But me, I cast no blaming stones;
One right for many wrongs atones,
I simply yell “Hip, Hip, Hooray!”
Like me, no doubt, his life was spent
In paying T.P. duns and rent,
And never left himself a cent,
But had to “mong” on friends for cash ;
At last, rage w uld no more be pent,
And off upon the spree he went.
Oh, I know, something had to smash
Yes, drunk, you dear old pal of mine,
How gladly i would pay your fine
And join you in a festive wine;
These . suburb folk don’t understand!
Some day, and soon, I’ll fall in line
With you and hog it with the swine;
God help the suburbs. Here’s my hand !
MAOIULAXT).
RUSCORIN.
THE FACTORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The city-bred soldiers were least affected by the
awful noise, which resembled the nimble of heavy
traffic. — Survivor’s story.
Over the hills, the green French hills. I hear the
roar and rattle,
The ripping crash of musketry, the thud and boom
of battle.
And we go clatt’ring down the road, unkempt and
out of breath
Eager to find our job inside the Factory of Death.
The roar grows louder as we run the hillsides redly
flash:
The shells soar whining overhead and round the
column crash;
AVo are the Raw Material'for Hands we cannot see
And our ambition is to break their damned machinery.
A\'e bear our deadlj tools of trade —the rifle and the
sword.
And you should see the eyes of us! AA e are a work-
ing horde
That Capital falls dead before! Come, foolish folk
and wise
Look on our work! In tangled heaps the Finished
Product lies!
y.s.w.
LYDDITE.
ENGLISH HOPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Eoxnox, Frklav Evening.—The English hop crop
has given one of the largest yields for the acreage
for many years, as well as one of the choicest quality.
The crop is estimated at 450,000 cwt. — Cable.
The lads are doing fine in France, and all is quiet
here;
Before they sailed upon its poles they saw the
growing beer;
So every man of Kent that fell remembered waving
crops,
And lies and dreams his soldier-dreams of cool, green
English hops.
Oh, there will be brave drinkings yet in village and
in town,
When they come marching back from France in uni-
forms of brown,
For fighting gives a man a thirst, and when the
German drops,
There'll bo bold lads with tales to tell for those who’ll
buy the hops.
With silver store your draper’s purse and seek the
village pub,
And very soon with men of war proud shoulders you
will rub ;
This is the privilege of him who safe in England
stops
To buy for thirsty soldier-men the brave and jolly
hops.
K.S.W.
E. O’F.


n
r
i
HI
r HE4PNES l
BRONCHiTO CURE
I No. |a f
FDR COUCHS
i HU II Mil lilt Ilium
\
111 IlMlllllt
f.
iWG-HEfIRNEi
* <&
o
O
V
o
S
o
ASTHMA
3\
/jr-
-1
ft
COLDS
r
x:
gOwH
IM
(4
i*lluKftW*'‘ l r
S®t»tr
SO
HROATS
l!lll!l
nut
lilt!
II!!!!
liiiiii
tin
i! i;
For COUGHS,
CROUP and
COLDS on the
CHEST.
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis
Cure.
The most common form of Illness is what is often described as "Just a Cold”; but how many graves
have been prematurely filled with the victims of Bronchitis, Asthma, Pleurisy, Pneumonia
and Consumption? These diseases almost invariably COMMENCE with “Just a Cold.”
Never treat a Cold lightly; tackle it at once with
HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure
■ ; ; •« -•
when a dose or two is generally sufficient to completely cure it. A sudden attack of Group in the
night is always promptly cured if this Medicine is AT HAND when wanted. Never be without a
bottle of HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure in the House. A bottle in the House is worth two in the
Chemist's Shop. Don't go home without a bottle.
v > 7 „ _• , •{ \ " .-7 “ *r- V ’/*'
i
Sold by most. Chemists and Stores. Price, 2/6 and 4.6 per bottle. If any difficulty in getting it, send direct to
W. G. HEARNB & CO. LTD. - - - geelong, Victoria.
Valuable alike
for
the
Invalid and Robust
A Complete Milk and Farinaceous Food.
Easy of Digestion, Most Agreeable to take. Simply and Quickly made.
The ‘ADenburys’ Diet is recommended for genera) use in place of ordinary milk foods, gruel, etc. and is
particularly adapted to the needs of Dyspeptics, Invalids and the Aged. Being largely predigested it is
easy of assimilation. A cup of the ‘Allenburys’ Diet is useful in the forenoon, between meals.
The ‘Allenburys’ Diet may be taken with advantage, on going to bed, in the place of stimulants.
Being easily digested it promotes tranquil and
refreshing sleep, free from the depressing re-
action ir the morning, which often follows
the taking of spirits.
For those who cannot readily digest milk the
‘Allenburys’ Diet is a welcome substitute, as it
does not cause indigestion and flatulence.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd M London, Eng.,
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
i
! (
There is no need for Australians 10
use
tooth pastes. The proprie-
.-.tors of
EUPENTA
invite The Bulletin readers to test
without expense this popular
TOOTH PASTE
No dentifrice from abroad can compare
with the peppermint flavored (blue
lioxl Eudentn.
I - per tube.
Write to
ROCKE. TOMPSITT 8 CO., Melbourne,
for a free sample, or, if Eudenta is un-
obtainable from .vour chemist or store,
send 1/3 in stamps for a large tube,
which will lie sent post free.
1^"
BUDENTA Preserves and
Whitens the Teeth.
“THE LONE HAND” for Good Stories and Bright Articles. Price 6d.


Copper Jardiniere, antique
hammered and embossed. Height,
11 inches. 25/'
finish, beautifully
9 inches. Width,
m
% , i-,'
Fine Art Vase in Solid Brass, “Old
Gold” finish, hand, finished and embossed.
Height, loi inches. 50/-
Copperware!
Beautiful —Artistic —Exclusive.
The beauty of
Copperware is
Unsurpassed. We
have thousands
of Selections.
8-Hour Art
Union Tickets
Is. each.
Post Free Anywhere.
T
i
Our Designs are
unique and won-
derfully hand-
some, moderately
priced too.
8-Hour Art
Union Tickets
Is. each.
Post Free Anywhere.
Fruit Dish, polished antique finish, handsomely-
embossed design, with blue enamel reliefs. Height,
11 i inches. 35/-
New Art Copper Photo Frame,
mounted on real oak, richly embossed, real
copper oxidised finish, 4/6.
Embossed Floral Design,
Solid Silver Cabinet Photo
Frame, 12/6.
Art Jardiniere, in Polished Brass, hand
embossed, fluted. Height, 8J inches. Width, 9i
inches. 207-
Pine Art Vase, in Solid Brass, antique
bronze finish, hand embossed. Height, 15 inches.
807-817, GEORGE
STREET, SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS
Opp. Railway Station,
SYDNEY.
SIEMENS
BATTERY
WOT AN
LAMPS.
*•' ij JS
/. :
ftV - v.
Vi/itb DRAWN-WIRE FilanjeotS.
For Hand Lamps, Automobile Headlights, etc.
NO LAMPS TAKE LESS CURRENT.
Ask for “ Wotan ” Lamps and refuse substitutes.
Sicn)€i)s Bros. Dypanjo Works Ltd.,
Head Office: London.
Machine and Switchgear WorKs—Stafford, Eng. .
Cable and Telegraph WorKs-Woolwich, London, 5.E.
Incandescent Camp WorKs-Dalston, Condon, N.E.
Australian Offices:
59 'William St., Melbourne. 42 Bridge St., Sydney.
If IP
X* J
m
m
The Home
Value of an
EDISON
PHONOGRAPH
With the phonograph you can bring the latest musical comedy hits, the best
classical music and the most famous grand-opera selections into your home.
The Edison Phonograph will play them all for you probably better than jou
ever heard them played before. The variety of entertainment afforded by the
Edison makes it indispensable to any home.
The Edison Blue Amberol Record, being practically unbreakable, permits
you to play any selection as often as you wish. It will not wear out.
Played with the Diamond Point Reproducer the Blue Amberol Record gives
clearness and roundness of tone, resonance to the lower notes and delicacy anc
steadiness to the highest soprano voices.
Any Edison dealer will give you full details and let you hear for yourself.
“To hear our-
selves as others
hear us”
The Edison Home
Recording Outfit
To those who sing, to teachers of music, com-
posers, lawyers, clergymen, actors and actresses,
lecturers, political students and speakers gener-
ally, the Edison Home Recording Outfit is in-
valuable. It enables you to perfect your voice,
as nothing else could. To hostesses it will
suggest a variety of games both novel and
entertaining.
The entire outfit costs but £2. The Recorder
alone-costs 15/-; the Shaving Machine, £l/5/-;
the Blank Recorder Cylinders 1/- each.
If your Phonograph is equipped with a Repro-
ducer Arm, to hold Model “O” and Diamond
Reproducers, it is necessary for us to supply
an Adapter Ring, which is 2/6 extra.
For the Concert, or Amberola, Phonographs,
which have stationary Reproducer Arms, it is
necessary to supply a Special Recorder Arm an
a Recording Horn. The Recorder Arm is b/-
extra, and the Recording Horn costs 2/6.
“To hear ourselves as others hear us, 01
Confidences concerning the modern ar ™
Stone,’' is the title of a very interesting booKiei
which gives full details of the Edison Horne
Recording Outfit. It will be sent post free
your home. Write for a copy to-daj 1
well worth getting.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale Only), 364=372 Kent Street, Sydney.


Stocktaking
Sale
6/- in the £1 Reduction.
We claim to have the best stock of
Ladies’ Gem Kings in Australia. Our
stock runs into many thousands of rings
at all prices. Here we show you a few
representative rings. All these designs
can he made at both higher and lower
prices, according to the requirements of
our customers. It is imperative that
our stock shall he reduced, hence the
very heavy reduction.-
Diamond H a 1 f-h o o p
Ring, 18et. Gold. Or-
dinary price £40.
Sale Price £28.
Ditto, as above, with
2 Rubies and 3 Dia-
monds. 0 r di n a r v
Price £30. Sale
Price £21.
This extremely beauti-
ful design, with 13
Pure White Diamonds
as shown. Ordinary
Price £18. Sale
Price £12/12/-
Design as above, Dia-
mond Cluster with
Ruby Centre, and Blue
Sapphires on shoulders,
friving the patriotic
colors, very handsome,
£14.
Now £9/16/-
Half-hoop Ring with 5
First-water Diamonds,
£30. Now £21.
Design as above, with
stones set in Platinum,
£ 35.
Now £24/10/-
Half-hoop Ring, set
with 3 Diamonds and
2 Sapphires, £7.
Now £4/18/-
Ditto, set with 2 Dia-
monds and 3 Rubies,
£9- Now £6/6/-
Cross-over Ring, with
3 High-class Diamonds,
£15.
Now £10/10/-
Ditto, with Ruby, Dia-
mond and Sapphire,
£12/12/-
Now £8/8/-
This design, with 4
Diamonds set in Plat-
inum. Price £12.
Sale Price £8/8/-
Ring as above, set
with 4 Queensland
Rubies. Ordinary
Price £2. Now
£1/8/-
New Design, with 5
Pure White Diamonds,
£11- Now £7/14/-
Design as above, set
with 5 Queensland
Rubies. Price £2.
Sale Price £1/8/-
Very neat Half-hoop
Ring, with 5 White
Diamonds, £10/10/-
Now £7/7/-
Above design, set with
6 Queensland Rubies,
£1/16/-
Now £1/5/6.
Very beautiful Open
Cluster, with all Pure
White Diamonds, £18.
Now £12/12/-
Above Ring, set with
Blue Sapphire centre,
Diamond cluster and
Rubies on shoulders.
£13. Now £9/2/-
Very Handsome Aus-
tralian Black Opal',and
Diamond Cluster Ring,
very best quality,
£27.
Now £18/18/-
The above is a typical
Australian Ring of
great beauty.
The above offers should be considered
very seriously by anyone requiring an
engagement or dress ring, as they afford
a unique opportunity of getting some-
thing at extremely good value from one
of the leading jewellery houses of Aus-
tralia, whose name is beyond question.
Flavelle, Roberts 8
Sankey, Ltd.,
Brisbane, Rockhampton and Lismore,
WHO HAVE SUPPLIED JEWELLERY TO
THE KING AND QUEEN OF ENGLAND.
t '
W eatherproof
TULLE
Ordinary Tulle—when exposed to
moist, damp air or rain—quickly loses the
distinctive charm of the fabric.
Don t buy ordinary Tulle when you can get
“Dynamo" Rainproof Tulle. If your Hat
is trimmed with “Dynamo ’’ you know before-
h md that weather c m’t mar its beauty.
*1 “ Dynamo Tulle is proof against climate
and weather. The hat you trim with it can be
worn fearlessly anywhere—everywhere. Damp
atmosphere and rain won’t worry you because
D/namo ’ ’ is waterproof.
The economy of “ Dynamo ’’ is self-apparent
—months after o'dinary Tulle
ha* become limp and lifeles- it
st ll loohs the same as when
purchased. Frequent renewals
are entirely dispensed with.
Dvrramo :
RAW PROOF Tulle
36 ins. wide. In Black, White
and all fashionable shades.
9d„ 10R, 1/-, 1/3 and 1/6
per yird upw i ds.
C All the best Milliners us' **Dyn mo” Rain - roof
Tulle. All the Best Stores sell it by the yard. But
be sure you get the genuine. The name is on the end
of the card on which, the Tulle is wound, _l£ any
dif iculty in obtaining locally,' send direct to address
below, statin ■ colour, quanti y and price per yard,"and
we will see that you are imm diately supplied.
“DYNAMO” ENQUIRY DEPT.,
Carlton House, York Street, Sydney,
Fis ley's 4 n 1 pwrv
CO
Made in England, Perfectly
harmless, ifraetectable,
and guaranteed free
frdm Nituate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VAUIO US
SHADES—Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn. ’
Price 3/6, posted
3/11. Directions with
every bottle.
MADAME LEIGH.
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne.
Legal Notices.
T N THE SUPREME COURT OF
X SOUTH AFRICA.
Witwatersrand Local Division.
To MARGUERITA lIEWETT (born
GUMMING), formerly of 59 Bent Street,
, North Sydney, Sydney, New South
Wales, but whose present address' is
unknown.
TAKE NOTICES that, by Citation issued
and now filed in this office, you have been
cited to cause an appearance to be entered
at the office of the Registrar of the Supreme
Court of South Africa, Witwatersrand
Local Division, on or before the 22nd day
of November, 1914, in an action to be heard
in the abovenamed Court at Johannesburg,
Transvaal, in which WILLIAM STEWART
lIEWETT, your husband, claims restitu-
tion of conjugal rights, or failing which
Divorce, on the grounds of malicious deser-
tion, or alternate relief.
FURTHER take notice that in default
of your appearance the action will be pro-
ceeded with and judgment granted against
you without further notice.
THUS DONE AND GRANTED in the
said Court at Johannesburg on this the 31st
day of August, 1914.
11. D. BOWKER, :
Registrar.
H. R. ORPEN, •
Attorney for Plaintiff,
15 Portland House, Johannesburg.
Transvaal. ...... r , ,
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices in this list are those at which the
various hoolcs are published in London. The
prices in parentheses are those at which the.
books are supplied bp retail booksellers in Vic-
toria, New South I Vales and South Australia.
I’ostape is ej'tra. at the rate, of 2d. per pound
within the Australian Commonwealth.
THE NATIVE TRIBES OE THE
NORTHERN TERRITORY OE
AUSTRALIA. Bv W. BALDWIN
SPENCER, C.M.G., F.R.S.. Professor
of Biology, University of Melbourne.
With 8 plates in color and numerous
other illustrations. Bvo 21s. net
(255.).
The Globe. —“ Mr. Spencer describes his in-
vestigations of tile customs of the tribes
which inhabit territories of Australia jStill
almost entirely unknown to the white man,
and it is perhaps needless to say that these,
particularly on Melville Island, wore carried
out at great personal risk to himself.”
THE WILDS OE MAORILAND.
By JAMES MACKINTOSH BELL,
M.A„ IMi.L., with 8 plates' in color,
many other illustrations in black and
white, and several maps. Demy Svo
(355.).
The Standard.—“ln easy, narrative style he
tells us of his many journeyings far from
civilisation, his experiences in the wonderful
mountain country among glaciers and ever-
lasting snow, and in the remote Kauri gum
diggings, where life is hard and primitive.”
THE BISHOP OF BALLARAT.
AUSTRALIAN SERMONS. Preached
to Country Congregations by
ARTHUR VINCENT, GREEN.
M.A. (Melb.). LL.I>. (Byd.), Bishop
of Ballarat. Crown Svo.
FROM FAR LANDS. POEMS OE
NORTH AND SOUTH. By “GER-
VAIS GAGE” (Prof. J-. Laurence
Rentoul, of the University of Mel-
bourne). Crown Svo. ss.
Melbourne Argus. —“ There is much in tljis
collection that is worthy of high praise. .. .
The distinguishing note of the whole volume,
what gives it its individuality, is, as might
be expected, its vitality—its vigorous thought
and its forceful expression. There is, too, a
true feeling for the beauties of nature observ-
able in many a fine description of scenes in
Northern Ireland and in Australia and New
Zealand.” " .
FEEDING AND CARE OF BABY.
By F. TRUBY KING, M. 8., B.Sc.
(Public Health). Edin. Bvo. Paper
Cover, Is.; Cloth Cover, 2s. net
(2s. 6d.).
NOW COMPLETE IN 5 VOLS. 21s.
net. (255.) each.
Cyclopedia of Education
Edited by PAUL MONROE, Ph.D., .
Professor of the History of Educa-
tion, Teachers’ College, Columbia
University. Assisted by more than
400 noted educators. Complete in
Five Quarto Volumes, averaging 650
pages each. Fully illustrated. Price
■ Five Guineas net. (1255.)
Times.— “ Professor Monroe; Ids departmental
editors, and his hundreds of contributors, may
be congratulated ou having finished a most
useful work.”
Journal of Education.—“We heartily con-
gratulate Professor Monroe on the completion of
thi3 monumental work, which dwarfs and
throws into the shade all its British com-
petitors.”
MACMILLAN’S EMPIRE LIBRARY
Paper Covers, 2/6; Cloth, 3/6 per
Volume.
H. G. WELLS’S New Book.
640. THE WIFE OF SIR ISAAC
HARMAN. By. H. G. WELLS.
Author of “The Passionate Friends,”
“The. World Set Free,” etc.
* * * Mr. Wells’s new book is a long novel of
modern life which deals with various aspects
of the feminist movement, and especially in
relation to marriage. The heroine; of the story,
Lady Harman, is a most charming character.
641. THE DEMI-GODS. Bv JAMES
STEPHENS, Author of “The Crock
of Gold,” etc. •
642 INCREDIBLE ADVENTURES.
By ALGERNON BLACKWOOD.
-Author of “Jimbo,” etc.
643. THE GAME OF LIFE AND
DEATH. By LINCOLN COLCOKD.
* * * Thrilling stories of the sea, somewhat in
the vein of Joseph Conrad.
644. THE RISE OF JENNIE CUSH-
ING. By MARY S. WATTS, Author
of “Nathan Burke,” “Van Cleve,”
etc.
038. A LAI) OF KENT. Bv HER-
BERT HARRISON.
Punch. —-“A fascinating picture of life in a
sea-coast village in the good old days.”.. .Mr.
Harrison has a delightful style, a perfect sym-
pathy with the times of which he writes,,, and
no small gift of characterisation.”
630. WAITING. Bv GERALD
O’DONOVAN, Author of “Father
Ralph.” i
Daily Mail. —“The power and quiet beauty
of Mr. O’Donovan’s “Father Ralph” are more than
sustained in his new n0ve1.... The book is sure
of an audience; sure, too, of its place on the
Index. The Seraphite missioners,. Father
Benignns and Father Mansuetudo, who preached
Blake down, are little mordant studies worthy
of Boccaccio.”
A Complete Catalogue of Macmillan’s Empire
Library will be sent on application.
MACMILLAN SCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE and LQNtK)N/
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped,
frame and address must appeal on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Peter H. Webb: (1) Are you quite sure
that all Laborites outside Australia are Freetraders?
(2) Why not consider the plain, logical aspect of
the case? If the Australian bootmaker wants 10s.
for a short day, and some foreign bootmaker is will-
ing to work at 4s. for a long day, Australian boots
must cost more than imported goods, especially if
the imported goods arrive in a foreign ship on which
wages are far below the Australian standard. There
must be a duty to make things level, else the Aus-
tralian bootmaker will be out of work. (3) Can
you eat your cake and have it? (4) Do the Free-
trade Laborites of England receive anything like the
wages you get in semi-proteetdd Australia? (5)
Supposing, as you allege, some Laborites of Maori-
land want Freetrade, and the free admission of Asiatic
goods made by men who are willing to accept ss.
a week, doesn’t that merely prove that they have
got insanity and swelled head, and been demoralised
by leading an easy, casual life on foreign 10an5?....
Wager: The original story of the boy (aged five, if
we remember aright) who was scared to death at
the sight of rain was to this effect: He was born at
Broken Hill. Ill's early recollections were, of course,
hazy. Then the big drought arrived, and the few
showers that came along when he was able to re-
member things happened at night when the boy was
asleep. He was sent to stay with a relative in Mel-
bourne, and had dry weather all the way. Then in
Melbourne it rained like Noah and all his relations
and all his arks and archangels, and there was a wildly
staggered kid from Broken Hill. .. .P.F.: Perhaps
you have mixed up the figures. The alleged ss. a
week was probably meant for ss'. a day... .Jobber:
Complaint sent to the responsible quarter.... O.nce
a Constant Reader: (1) What’s it all about, anyhow?
(2) If every reader of a paper exercised the right to
have questions answered (some demanding much time
and far inquiry), who do you think would get the
paper out? (3) Have some sense. (4) Have some
more sense. ... Uloola : Right, it was your fault. The
firm of Lane and Peters (B. 17/9/’l4) is composed of
Thomas Peters and John Symonds. . . .E. A. Taylor:
Tabooed. . . .A. Battler: Been told. .. .Africa: Approxi-
mate figures are British (including contingents from
the Dominions) 280,000 ; Boers 62,000. British losses
5774 killed, 22,829 wounded. Boer losses about
4000 killed. Number of wounded uncertain. .. .D.D.:
The Fisher Government ordered three torpedo-boat
destroyers in 1909, one of which (the Warrego) was
sent to Australia in sections and assembled at the
Commonwealth Dockyard, Sydney. Later in the
same year, at the Imperial Defence Conference, Aus-
tralia (per Col. Foxton, who had been sent to repre-
sent Australia by ’the first Fusion Ministry) under-
took to provide a fleet consisting of four cruisers, six
destroyers and three submarines. Three of the cruisers
were built abroad, and are now in commission, and
the fourth (the Brisbane) is now building at Sydney.
. ...J.H.: The brat has been christened Earl Kit-
chener 1 Well, for Heaven's sake keep it dark, or
Kitchener might be flattered ten death just when he
is most wanted... .Black Swan: Can’t use any tiling
about the bases.... Wyangarie: That cane cheque
record would make a good par. if it were clear and
understandable. Clear as tar in present form....
Mane (and many others) : Federal articles, paragraphs,
etc., still have to be signed until the writs of the
elections are returned.... Hugh Enden: Well, if he
isn’t an afiti-Defence advocate,. what the Fiend is
he? The passage you quote proves the very thing
you deny him. . . .Bob Warf: That system of doubling
on the favorite till you strike a winner is pretty
old and it doesn’t work too well. Say there are
seven races on the first day, and it is a day when
the favorites aren’t in luck. You put £5 on the
first, £lO on the second, £2O on the third, £4O
on the fourth; then £BO, £l6O and £320. Of
course you don’t really put on the last three
amounts, because the bookies refuse to go the limit.
And if they did go it they probably wouldn’t pay,
supposing you won. Anyhow, in theory you lose
£635 on seven races, and then start next day by
trying to dash £640 on one horse. And Moses
howls scorn at you. Any old Moses has seen that
game played too often. .. .Francis: (1) Melbourne. (2)
About 55.... H. J. McR.: A b0b.... Cerberus : Can’t
check your list of Cairns (N.Q.) minerals, the sub-
terranean religious editor being out and the professor
of metallic ballooning being ill. But though you
mention about 100 alleged products, including prout-
stite, octahedrite, molybdenite, redruthite and others,
something seems to be wanting. Doesn’t the district
produce Moabite, mosquito-bite, Ammonite, dog-bite,
skite, wild-cgtite and plain beer-tight?... .Brother:
You may possibly have failed to get the hang of
things. The value of Belgium to the alliance didn’t
depend wholly on its fighting power. Belgium is a
small country, very flat, and well supplied with good
roads and railways. Also, it has a dense population.
The Belgian army can be got together in about a
quarter of the time that is required to gather up the
French or German or British forces, and in about
one-twentieth of the time that the scattered Bear of
Russia Requires to get his troops together. When it is
a matter of holding back an enemy at short notice
while the big countries lumber to the front Belgium
is the best ally on earth. .. .C.B.W. (S.A.) : It has
already been published in a string of papers and re-
published- in book form. . . .Bellerive: In the midst of
lies it is a relief to get something authentic: —
THE RUSSIAN COSSACKS.
Glittering swords may dash
Or cannons roar
To scatter grim death
Ride the cossacks of war
Crafty and watchful during
The silence of night
Prepared for a surprise
Or put a foe to flight
Bullets may ring and
Fierce cannons roar
Into the jaws of havoc
Ride the cossacks of War.
Merum S.: Force-pump humor A. Bolster: If
you want to do something for the Empire, go and
read it to the enemy R. 8.: Will do without the
boots... .C.M.L.: Little lengths of prose—no origin-
ality.... Lerra: The writing of National Anthems is
becoming a vice. If you admire “God Save the King”
so much, why squander your time trying to better it?
And how many people are going to learn your
anthem “when you have built it? Most of us don’t
know all the words of the present one Frank J. M.
(Q.) : Your letter:—
Dear Sir,—Herewith is a reply to Randolph Bed-
ford’s “Rose of Darling Downs.” The young lady
mentioned is exceedingly popular, and acknowledged
by travellers and others to be the most handsome
girl on the western line of Queensland.
Sorry can’t print the verses. Implore the Beauty of
the Western Line to call in at this office next time
she’s in Sydney. Miss “Vandorian” makes a nice cup
of tea, and is always glad to meet northerners.


Shipping;.
P, and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
♦Twin Screw. All Fitted with Wireless lelegrapny.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £IS & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l6 16s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson k Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills k Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric I.ifts and Laundries.
Sailing oven- fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE.' ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies, Ac.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: It MOORE STREET. SYDNEY.
Commissioners —
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HADE.
Security and Satisfactory
Interest
are the leading features of this Institution.
Deposits received from 1/- upwards.
Interest paid at 3i% on first £2OO, and 3%
on excess to £5OO.
The Bank has 130 Branches and over 500
Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices.
DEPOSITS Guaranteed by the Government.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. IT. DAVIES. Secretary.
THE.
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £385,000
Directors: lion. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
Hon. ROBERT PIIILP, M.L.A. ; lion. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Rrancbes throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS, j
THE
Australian Bank nf Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. ..£2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (30th June, 1914).. .. £1,195,591
RESERVE FUND £45,000
HEAD OFFICE—Georze and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon,
Esq.; Arthur S. Barton, Esq. ; Frank N.
Yarwood, Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysagiit, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales k Queensland,
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO.OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. . . .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . .. .. 166,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors — Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray,
M.L.C.; James Love, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE .... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The (olonial (Qutual tile
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Hf.a,d Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3.,445,000.
Atnounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional,, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ibJse.
Prarnnms moderate afld without restriction as to
Increßing. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
CuteF OfFlcr for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. 3. Roberts. C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C.. M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secret an
Shipping;
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
R.M.S.iTIARAMA (Twin-screw)
6500 Tons Gross. 10,500 Tons Displacement.
SAILS FROM SYDNEY, OCTOBER 10.
The Largest and Finest Steamer trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
REGULAR SAILINGS EVERY 28 DAYS.
Around VVorld and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 2 days at Wellington and 24 hours
at Papeete—“ The Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
"j"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and 'WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —-steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. Cd. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE’ ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
WHITE STAR LINE
Only One Class of Accommodation.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
SUEVIC, 12,500 tons, about OCT. 17.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, about NOV. 7.
CERAMIC, 18,500 tons, about NOV. 21.
*New Triple-Screw Steamer. Largest
Vessel in Australian Trade.
Fares —Capetown or Durban, £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. . . 19 0 oto 30 0 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from .. .. 25 5 0
Melbourne .. .. .. .. 110 0
PAMPTTLFTR AND ALL INFORMATION ON APPLI-
CATION. Luggage Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSFNGFR ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY A
nniSBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
•CAIRNS
(•Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports). J
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Oct. 3.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne October 7.
Leaves Sydney October 10.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne October 14.
Leaves Sydney October 17.
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports).
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney October 3.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney October 10.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To PAPUA and PACIFIC ISLES.
To Papua via Brisbane and Cairns.
To Solomon Islands via Brisbane.
To the New Hebrides via Lord Howe and
Norfolk Islands.
SEND FOR PARTICULARS OF FARES AND SAILINGS TO
BURNS, PMILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK. OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Pafd-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS:
£3,500,000
£2,450.000
£3,500,000
£9,450.000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The lion. James T. Walker
The lion. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, M.D.
AUDITORS: Alfred George Milson, Esq.; William'Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office— George St.. Sydney. London Office—29 Threadnecdl© St., E.C.
340 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Rills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT
THE -WORLD " .T, RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,730,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,730,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Gboßoe J. Cohen. Esq Chairman.
Hop 11. E. Eater. M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses. M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Smelt,ey, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., and W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dinns.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton ; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Rranches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
jjank of Deui Z ealanli -
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDINfj,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. . . .. £1,000,000
Preference Shares . . • ■ • • 500,000
Ordinarv Shares (£1,000,000) Paid-
U p 500,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£544,654 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 156,136 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 78,500 0 0
£779,291 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. •••■ 1
Gen. Wan.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agehts and Correspondents throughout the World.
rfiHE Best Stories written in Australia
JL appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price ira.
UNDER NEUTRAL FLAG
TO
AMERICA and ENGLAND.
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY-
VENTURA .. | Oct. 24 | Dec. 19 | Feb. 13 I April 10
SONOMA .. .. j Nov. 21 j Jan. 16 | Mar. 13 j May 8
The San Francisco Panama Exposition is open
February-December, 1915. Tickets issued to London
via San Francisco and back by any Suez Line.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE. Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all
cases of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold bv ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
Price, 3/- Her box, or a course of 8
Boxes for £l. Post free under
plain cover.
On Sale at all Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
Miliars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wk Supply—
yARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALT., LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC
6SJ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W
Branches in all parts of the world.
Shipping;.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
* (LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping' at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WAIUT/DA (9000
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
Oct. 24 and Nov. 21.
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steerage Passengers.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
INNAMINCKA, Oct. 3.
MARIjOO. Oct. 10.
WOLI.OWRA, Oct. 17.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREF/r, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
OPERATING THE LARGEST AND FINEST VESSELS
ACROSS THE PACIFIC FROM AUSTRALIA.
SAILINGS :
*Triple-Screw Steamer, fitted with Cabins de luxe en
suite, Bedstead Rooms, Nursery, Laundry, Electric
Lift.
First Saloon passengers wishing to break journey at
New Zealand may proceed by Intercolonial steamer
from Sydney without extra charge.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION ST RAM SHIP COMPANY OR N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ”
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA”
T.S.S. “ICYARRA”
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA”
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA”
S.S. “ WYANDRA”
10,000 tons
7000 tons
7000 tons
6500 tons
6500 tons
4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company’s steamers possess
all up-to date, arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade ;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
the teeth cleaned both
easily and thoroughly
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co..Manchester, Eng.


ABBEY’S
CATALOG
Illustrates the newest styles in
Abbey’s Quality Shoes for Gentle-
men. Send for a free copy.
The boot illustrated is a smart,
made-to-order style, All-Patent
Derby Bal., Leather Lined.
Price - - 32/6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage 9d. extra.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARAISIS’
Egyptian Henna before all otliers ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive y-nt. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australi?.
Commonwealth,
■
* V
T P A Li*
JBank* f Australia
Open
for all
HEAD OFFICE SYDNEY
General Banking Business
in the
principal
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
Cable remittances mado to, fi"d drafts drawn oil foreign places direct. Foreign hills negotiated and collected.
l?vn] credit issued to any partoi the world. Bills negotiated or forwarded for collection Banking and
p v** 1 ®' 6 Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth, United Kingdom and abroad,
ent accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at
Deposits
from
1/- £3OO 2000
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at
per annum
00/
0/ 0
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMBS KELL, Deputy Governor. DENIS >N MILDER, Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
, her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney. N.S.W. A. HESTON, Local Director.
ARE YOU DEAF?
EARPHONE
GIVES PERFECT HEARING
The object of the Danjhill
Earphone is to enable
deaf people to hear.
By simply wearing a Danjhill Earphone a deaf person can sit in a room and hear
all the conversation with perfect ease. It collects sounds from all directions withoul
losing anv of their strength.
It transmits the voice clearly, and can be used in a Public Hall, Theatre or Church.
For years past Jerdans Ltd. have been successfully attending to the eye
troubles of the public.
If your eyes fail you naturally take to spectacles.
Why not let us treat your ears with the Danjhill Earphone? The result
will be perfect.
SOLE AGENTS t
JERDAN’S LTD.,
My Opticians, 393 George Street, City.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
1/Is, 2/9 & 4/b. Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks ot
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
‘he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
' EORGE HOTEL,
* St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria-
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 16/- pet* day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Those who suffer from Hay Fever
need no longer dread the advent of
spring and the pollen season. A little
RHIWOCULIN
smeared within and without the nose
is the remedy for this irritating com-
plaint. lihinoeulin is sold everywhere
in
TUBES at 3/6 EACH.
Send a postcard asking for free trial
sample to the wholesale agents,
Rocke, Tompsitt 8 Co.,
Melbourne.
To be prepared for the attack, leave
an order for a tube with your chemist
right away.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
m
&
.
FREE ELECTRICITY.
Once installed, THE AUTOMATIC WIND MOTOR can be
run practically for nothing: it is driven by the wind and
requires NO FUEL whatever to generate electricity. There
is no Smell or Dirt, NO RISK from Fire, Shock or Explosion.
The POWER generated will safely LIGHT your home in the most
modern, convenient and healthy manner.
The HEATING of dwelling rooms is thereby reduced to a minimum, and
the soiling and air-vitiating effects of gas, oil and other illuminants is
obviated, and, further, the fire risk is nil.
ELECTRIC FANS can Ue driven to render hot summer days more bear-
able, and free the home from flies, mosquitoes and other winged pests.
The domestic problem is solved by the furnishing of cheap power for
VACUUM CLEANERS, ELECTRIC IRONS, WASHING MACHINES, etc.
Many pumping problems otherwise impossible of solution by the
ordinary windmill pump can be solved by the Automatic Wind Motor, since
it can be placed in the most exposed position, and the power generated trans-
mitted by wires to a pump driven by an electric motor.
We shall be pleased at all times to advise prospective clients as to the
size of plant best suited to their individual requirements, or to explain any
doubtful points.
All Communications to be addressed to
HAES &
EGGERS LIMITED,
163 Clarence Street
SYDNEY.


0
.0
HERE’S THAT SUIT CASE.
Extravagance consists of buying the wrong thing at any price—economy, the
right thing at the right price. Here’s the argument for economy: A Real, Solid
Cowhide Suit Case, good sturdy frame, lever locks, leather corners, and “porter-
proof.”
22in.
50/-
24in.
55/-,
26in.
60/-
28in.
65/-
30in.
70/-
FINNEY’S
THe Bij£ Block, Brisbane.
TO SEND AWAY a nicely-penned letter or order
without mark of copying either back or front is more
polite, and adds to your own prestige. The Zanetic
Penduplicate books ensure this advantage. Easy to
use. Octavo Is. size sent post free for 12 stamps to
Zanetic Works, Leicester, England.*
There are points about living in Aus-
tralia if you own a car or motor-cycle. In Yankee-
land the manufacturers were caught napping by the
angel of war, and had only about six weeks’ supply of
crude rubber on hand. Supplies were held up owing to
the London Rubber Mart, through which most American
supplies are obtained, being tied up. The first week
of August saw the price of crude rubber in the
U.S.A. soar up 100 per cent., and finished tyres
promptly bounded by anything from 10 to 15 per
cent. Great was the bouhd and loud was the howl.
About the only part of the world where no increase
took place was in Australia, where the largest manu-
facturing concern, the Dunlop Rubber Co., was for-
tunate enough to hold stocks of crude rubber suffi-
cient to cope with all requirements for quite a long
time to come. So unless the price of American
cottons and the freights on the same increase out of
all bounds there is little chance of the price of tyres
rising in Australia for some time to come. But con-
sidering the inclination of the Yankee to raise all
prices on any old excuse, it might be a good time to
lay in a stock just in case the Yankee lets his heart
go.* -
Australians are the right stuff to make the
best of soldiers. They are imbued with the
Right Spirit. They are best encouraged by
that other Right Spirit, King George IV.*
topnotch Scotch.*
Send to-day
2,6
SHARPS
AMIGO
for PILES
WHY SUFFER?
GET RELIEF.
“SHARPS AMIGO”
FOR PILES.
An unfailing remedy
for Itchinfj, Protrud-
ing or Bleeding'
PILES.
IT CURES GIVES
EASE AT ONCE.
2/6 a Jar from
J. H. LITHGOW,
Chemist,
136 Charles Street,
LAUNCESTON.
There is a weird lie to the effect that
Jack Johnson, having become a naturalised French
citizen, fled in his murky -fashion to Berlin to avoid
being called out for military training. He had just
settled down nicely in the - German capital when
Kaiser Bill smashed things, and Johnson was lum-
bered as a black French prisoner of All the
same, he got out of it very well. Had he got back
to France he would have been liable for military ser-
vice, and would certainly have got to the front in
due time, and he no doubt reckons it is safer to be
in the German military stockade than a soldier in
the front of a bayonet charge along the- Aisne.
The word “Zeppelin” has been very
much in evidence the last few weeks. Away back,
any time between 1900 and a few weeks ago, it was
a name to conjure with, a name with a halo of glory
around it. Blit now ! ! Count Ferdinand von Zeppe-
lin was born at Manzell, near Friedrisclisliafen, on
Lake Constance, about 74 years ago. At an early
age he entered tile German army, served his birne,
and conducted himself with the decorum that did
not become a German officer. He was a quiet, kindly
man, devoid of the swagger of militarism that dis-
figured the men of his class and caste, and he had
a taste for aeronautics. Writer forgets to what rank
he attained in the German military machine, but,
anyhow, it was nothing very high. When he left the
army he took with him some of the men who had
been associated with him during his military career,
and retired to his estate on the shores of Lake Con-
stance, where he built himself a workshop and began
to experiment in aeronautics. He was steeped to the
lips in the lore, and, curiously enough, possessed
with a fierce hatred of the French Colonel Foxe, who
had written so much on the subject, and investigated
so deeply the possibilities of the heavier-than-air
machine. His heroes were General Meusnier and
Henri Giffard, both Frenchmen, who had experi-
mented with dirigible balloons, and I)epuy de Lone,
also a Frenchman, who had driven a dirigible balloon
by mechanical power in 1872. Zeppelin—a tall, thin,
sparse man with a white moustache and a pleasant
blue eye—took the ideas of these brilliant pioneers
and adapted them to the possibilities of the modern
light internal combustion engine. It was in 1897 he
produced' his first monster dirigible balloon, which
was built to carry five men. It consisted of an
aluminium skeleton frame, containing 16 bags of
gas of a total capacity of 400,000 cubic feet. This
vast mass had suspended from it, by rigid poles, two
cars, and was fitted with two motors of 16-horse-
power, each driving a propeller. Tested first in
June, 1900, it made all the world wonder by attain-
ing a speed of 18 miles per hour for 3J miles. Then
an accident to the steering gear put it out of active
service, and it had to descend. In 1905 he built a
smaller but higher-powered ship, with two motors,
which each developed 35 h.p. This was a greater
success, but its career was cut short by a violent
gale, which whirled it away from its moorings and
tore it to pieces among trees. He immediately built
a third ship, which flew all over Lake Constance and
performed startling evolutions in October, 1906. It
worked up to a speed of 36 miles per hour for
several hours with 11 passengers on board. The con-
quest of the air was considered complete. His fourth
machine, let loose in 1908, travelled 250 miles in 11
hours. But in its heyday of glory it was caught
in a gale and wrecked among trees. The gas from
its envelope came in contact with the spark from its
motors, and the result was conflagration. But Kaiser
Bill and the German nation were quite satisfied that
Ferdinand Zeppelin had solved the mystery of aerial
flight, and won for Germany the empire of the air.
A huge subscription, headed by the Emperor, pro-
vided funds for a fifth ship, and Zeppelin received
army contracts that fully reimbursed him for his
expenditure. The German nation created an aerial
navy. In 1910 Zeppelin started an aerial tourist
service, which not only repaid him what he had spent
on development, but made him a rich man. It was
a great and splendid success. The German War
Office set to work, on a royalty basis, and created an
aerial fleet, which at the end of 1912 consisted of
five rigid ships (pure Zeppelins), three semi-rigids
(in which Zeppelin’s ideas were blended with French
ideas), five non-rigid (purely French ideas), making
a total of 13 aerial war craft. Since then it is known
that the building of Zeppelins has increased every
year, and when war broke out Germany was supposed
to have a fleet of over 20 of them, besides “semi-
rigids” and “non-rigids.” Britain was supposed to
lie helpless before them. But, strange to say, up to
the time of writing, neither the British fleet in the
North Sea nor the British aviators on the Franco-
German frontier have seen a Zeppelin—to their
great disappointment. Apparently the Germans have
tested the bulky object to the uttermost, and know
that it is helpless against modern heavier-than-air
skycraft armed with quick-firing guns. Though it
is an excellent machine for the tourist bureau it is
useful to the War Office only for the dropping of
bombs into undefended towns.
The curious feature of the aerial business is that
the Zeppelin was designed by a soldier from the very
start as a fighting machine, while the aeroplane was,
in the beginning, a scientific toy and latterly an
instrument of sport and pleasure. Progress with the
aeroplane was much more rapid than with the dirigi-
ble, and to-day the great, high-powered, bomb-dropping
Zeppelin dares not face the attack of the lighter but
faster and more mobile automatic bird, the heavier-
than-air aeroplane, which can fly on its side or
upside-down as occasion demands. General French,
in his report of the Marne battle, tells of the dis-
appointment of the British aviation corps at not
having met a single Zeppelin, and also mentions that
the artillery men were bitterly chagrined at not
having had a chance to test their shooting powers
against some of these huge targets.
Announcement (of much political signi-
ficance) in Brisbane Courier (19/9/T4) :
The friends of Mr. John Bull, deceased, are
respectfully invited to attend his funeral, to move
from the residence of his brother-in-law, Mr. W.
Bretherton, of Austin-street, Newstead, this after-
noon at 3 o’clock.
Apparently all the notabilities come to
Brisbane to die. One Christofero Columbus
passed away at Petrie Terrace a few weeks
ago.
“Norbell”: The theatre-goers of the little
sugar town of Nambour (Q.) take their
pleasures sadly. The local shire council has
erected a fine hall for public entertainments.
It is admirably equipped, and the dtage and
accessories are equal to anything, else of the
kind in Bananaland, but the crowning inter-
nal adornment is a marble slab, of the usual
funereal pattern, sacred to the memory of
a defunct M.L.A.
IN BANANA LAND
The brightest item of war news that has
yet appeared (the name of the paper which
published it is charitably suppressed) was
to the effect that the German cruiser Goeben
had appeared at Phillipville, in the Gulf of
Persia, a little way south-west of Sardinia.
People who read it heaved a sigh of relief,
and said they were glad the Goeben wasn’t
bombarding Birmingham in Mexico, close to
the Solomon Islands. Then they went to
bed for a long and well-earned rest.
Dorothy Tonks, a Brisbane girl, writes
from London: “London is full of Americans
trying to get home, some of whom have not a
penny, but any amount of dollar bills, which
are of no use. In the restaurants you are
asked to pay for a meal before they will
serve you.” The Yankee dollar is not
always Almighty, then. Bull has invented
a new “Grace before Meat.” It runs: “Can
you pay for your tucker?”
One evil effect of the present war for
Bananaland will be ihe entire stoppage of
Teutonic emigration for some time. The
Germans introduced by pastor Niemeyer, of
Hatton Yale, during the .last five years have
proved admirable settlers —hardly one having
hung about the towns after a job as the
British immigrant usually does. The mi-
grating Deutscher has an insatiable earth-
hunger. Apparently the Kaiser suffers
from the same disease.
“H.H.”: In the present burst of excite,-
ment it is alleged, on moth-eaten authority,
that Bundaberg is about to alter its name
to Bundagrad. But Bunda loerg isn’t sup-
posed to be German like St. Peterslmrgr. It
is in the same category with “iceberg,” and
no one proposes to talk of the Titanic hav-
ing collided with an “icegrad.” Some people
who died of drink and onions and fish-sauce
in the long ago alleged that Bundaberg was
a corruption or dishevelment or disem-
bowelment of an aboriginal term which
signified a dog. In other words, it was
stated that the place was simply Dogs’ Shore
or Dogs’ Hollow. If it wants a new name,
how about calling it Bloodhoundshaven?
Soup!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My creed is “Soup, Soap and Salvation.”— Missioner
at inter-State Mission Conference, Brisbane.
Down with your banners and balderdash
old;
Eagles and unicorns, scarlet and gold;
Songs of Britannyer and mad Marseillaise ;
Gags no better than brays !
Missioner says : “We are Children of Dust
liOst beyond hoping unless we can trust
In Soap and Salvation and Soup;
In Soup and Salvation and Soap ;
Satan will scoop
All in his coop
If we don’t swear by the Soup.”
Folks who are hungry and not very clean
Folk who are grimy and slimy and mean—■
Pilot has spoken—his words are of gold ;
“Feed them, and wash them- —the lambs of
the Fold!”
Sounds a bit rough on respectable classes
Labelling them as Unfortunate Masses,;
Telling them: “Go and get Soap,
Soup and Salvation and Soap.” '
Blindly they grope,-
Yet there is Hope
(Parson-man sez it) in Soap!
Missioner knows wot a blessing it were
Combing the debree that stuck in his fur.
Rubbing and scrubbing the grit from his hide,
Till he got grace to light up his inside,
And if he reckons we want a scrub too
W’y should we kick up a hullabaloo?
He was set up by the Soap,
Soup and Salvation and Soap,
How did he grope,
How did he mope
Till he got on ter the Soap !
Raggage an’ baggage the most of us are,
Pilot he knows it and shows us a star.
“Brothers, you’re deep in yer sins an’ yer
dirt,
Fill up yer innards and wash out yer shirt;
Sing Hallelujah! and flock here to me
Hold out yer basins and drop on yer knee: —
There is a Glory in Soup,
There is Salvation in Soap,
Come in a troop—
O what a scoop—
Soap and Salvation and Soup !” .
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER F.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, September 26, 1914.
My Dear Tiiargomindah,—
Nudgee College carnival, which is. to last
a whole bloated week, commenced this after-
noon with a motor gymkhana. There was
a fair crowd, and the show was a source of
general satisfaction. The carnival proper
(this is not to say that there was anything
improper about the earlier proceedings) was
set spinning to-night by Lieutenant-
Governor Arthur Morgan. The Exhibition
Hall was eloquently disguised with trails
of wisteria and the warm coloring of many
flags, beneath which smiling damsels con-
jured the coins from the indulgent audience
and banked them to the credit of the Good
Cause —the College building fund.
Martha Burns, who is one. of the few
female toothsmiths of this Christian strong-
hold, was visiting London for the Dental
Conference when war broke its baiter and
commenced, careering over Europe. Being
a fully-qualified nurse, with exceptionally
PEARLS BEFORE SWINE .
VIOLINIST (proudly): “Madam, der viddle dot I play vor your guests dis evenin' vill be
150 years old.”
MRS. NOUVEAU-RICHE (consolingly): “Sh! my good man, say not a word about it, and
I don't think anyone will know the difference.”
good diplomas, Martha volunteered to help
reduce the violence of the fevered beast,
and has gone to the scene of action with
one of the field hospitals. She is very
popular here, and last year was president
of the Brisbane Women’s Club.
A Brisbane girl recently accompanied her
husband into the Backblox, where cow and,
in a minor degree, the war are the topics of
conversation. The girl is one of Brisbane’s
smartest garment pegs, and one dewy morn-
ing she tripped forth clad, plus sundries, in
spats. To her horror she heard one cow
serf mention to another, in a bush aside:
“ ’Strewth, Bill, look at the tart in leggin’s !”
The new baby daughter of Lieutenant-
Colonel and Mrs. Stodart was christened in
the mess tent of the Light Horse camp on
Monday afternoon. Her name is Adele Nea,
and those who godparented were Major
Glasgow, Captain Hore, Mrs. James Clark
and Miss Mabelle Nicholson. All the
officers of the Light Horse troop were
present, also the four grandparents, Mr. and
Mrs. Abercrombie and Mr. and Mrs. J.
Stodart. Mrs. Stodart, junior, has a
younger brother in the troop, and he and
Mrs.- Clark’s son Arthur also assisted to
damp down the infant. This should be a
truly auspicious start for any bantling,
unless the warlike atmosphere makes her a
suffragette.
Mrs. Alex. Marks, whose husband is one
of the doctors with the Queensland Expedi-
tionarv Force, also possesses a new baby.
Incidentally, it is to be hoped that no poor
infant will be earmarked like one who
arrived in the time of the Boer war, and
was christened, among other things, Lyddite
Pretoria Bobs. I don’t know what sex it
was. That name would misfit either.
“Bunty” has been Pulling the Strings
before fairly good bouses all this week. On
Saturday Weelum will be ordered to snort
for the last time in Brisbane, and on Mon-
day the Gilbert and Sullivan Opera Co. will
unpack its swag.
Last Saturday the united force of the
Kindergarten Association in Brisbane gave
a big demonstration in the Exhibition Hall.
The kiddies, who were arranged in five
groups, one from each kindergarten, demon-
strated an average morning’s work. They
all looked healthy, happy and clean.
Mrs. W. Woolcock and handsome daughter
Mabel tea-ed and caked a number of pals
on Wednesday afternoon in honor of Mr.
and Mrs. Jeff Woolcock, who left for their
home in Rockhampton the next evening.
Journalist Roy Evans, who was in London
when the war began, and was thus cut off
from his intended tour round Europe, is
again wielding a pen, this time in the offices
of the Australian Press Association, which
are situate in High Holborn. Sub-editors
who gnash their teeth over the incoherent
mass that sometimes hides itself under the
nom de puzzle of “Cable” might like to know
the address of one of the responsible
miscreants.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.


0
£
*4
>
wSammmmmi
'O
H
0
C J *
Nair
immarnk \*~. ....*.— v
2
D^3
"■■""" - ' '■■
...:.*
c o
w/l **»* *;


99
V erdict
NOT GUILTY.
A Jury, composed of hundreds of well-known Squatters, Farmers and
M anufacturers throughout N. S. Wales, has unanimously agreed that
a
&
my
** JL\ *
I
£2!
IF
The “BIG CHIEF” OIL ENGINE
Sizes H to 12 h.p.
is “not guilty” of the serious charges usually levelled against Internal
Combustion Engines.
A FEW REASONS—Being hopper=cooled, all troubles due to leaky tanks are entirely eliminated.
The necessary spark is generated by a reliable high=tension magneto ; therefore
batteries are not required.
Either Kerosene or Benzine may be used as fuel.
Crankshaft is extended to take pulley either side.
All BIG CHIEFS are fitted with double fly=wheels and regular pulley. Friction
Clutch Pulleys at slight extra cost.
Prices—Positively the lowest.
Terms—Easily the best in N.S.W., or
Big' Spot Cash Discount.
SELLING LIKE HOT CAKES. Place Your Order NOW!
Big Shipments Landing Early in October. Book Early and Avoid Disappointment.
FURTHER PARTICULARS FROM ...
R. L. SCRUTTON CO. LTD.
Sole Agents,
161 Clarence St.,
“ Where the Best Engines
are sold.”
£


You will never forget this year’s
Holidays if you take a KODAK
How did you spend your holidays three
years ago? Can you remember?
Hard to answer off-hand —isn’t it? You may remember WHERE, but the things you did and the
people you met are quite forgotten.
But the man who always takes a Kodak —ask him to tell you about HIS holidays of three years ago.
He has forgotten nothing. His holiday still lives for him. His Kodak never forgets!
In an album marked 1911 he will show you jolly Kodak snapshots that tell the whole story of bis
holiday that year —and he will tell you, too, that a holiday without a Kodak is a holiday wasted!
Don’t Waste Your Holidays this Year
Take a KODAK
Remember, you can learn to use a Kodak in half an hour. Ho dark-room needed from first to last.
Daylight all the way. There are Kodaks at all prices, from 30/- up to £l4/10/- Here are two: —
VEST POCKET KODAK —takes pictures 21 x If inches —fits the waistcoat pocket—always with you, never in
the way, 30/-
No. 3a FOLDING POCKET KODAK—takes pictures x 31 inches —the popular postcard size—rapid recti-
linear lens —Kodak ball-bearing shutter, 90/-
And then, for the children, there are the BROWNIES, at all prices from 5/- up to 50/-
In Hot Weather,
Use Antitherm Dry Plates.
Perfectly safe with all solutions and washing
water at 90 °F.
Speed, H, &D. 275. Get a dozen and test them
for yourself.
Austral “Sun” Plates.
“Talma,” Melbourne, writes :
“We have just used over 200 whole Plates on
theatre work, by electric light (a severe test),
without rejecting a single negative.”
They have exceptional latitude, gradation and
fineness of grain; are consistently uniform.
Ask for the latest Kodak Catalogue..
See results of the “Happy Moments” Competition in Atjstbalasian Photo-Review for September.
KODAK
(Australasia)
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
LTD
SYDNEY: 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “ The Block,” 284 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 37 Bundle Street.
BRISBANE: 250-252 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA : Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON: Denham Street.
BROKEN HILL: 346 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. : Dixon Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. : 3 Lome Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. : 76 Stuart Street.
m
:>■
.5
, , f
Is ■
4
,
*.<
•V
'• ’"4*
'•
- * i*».N s£* V,*
is
_ V
'
safe
ss.sr»
•<*
.• ,>.' *m.. - v ?
gsl '£& i
,'S4»
ggrop;
Mark Twain s
COMPLETE WORKS
MARK TWAIN is known to more people of all
conditions, the world over, than any other
writer of the nineteenth century. Humorist,
printer, pilot, miner, journalist, traveller, lecturer,
novelist, publisher—he has seen life in many aspects.
It is as a humorist that he is best known, but, although
his humor is of world-wide appeal, his reputation does
not rest on it alone.
In Mark Twain’s varied writings —short stories,
novels, autobiography, travel, history, essays —there is
keen observation, much thought, and a wonderfully
rich imagination—a combination which places him in
the first rank of the world’s writers. He has those
qualities which appeal to all Huckleberry Finn’s
genial tolerance of human failings united to the high
ideals of his “Joan of Arc.”
STANDARD EDITION-TWENTY-FIVE VOLUMES
THE STANDARD PUBLISHING CO. PTY. LTD., having the exclusive rights of
the only complete and authorised books of Mark Twain, now offer a splendid edition
of the famous humorist’s works, complete in twenty-five volumes. The volumes
are beautifully printed, and artistically bound in rich red cloth, with gold tops,
gold backs, and deckled edges. The alone are a treat, being by such
artists as J. G. Brown, Frost, Smedley, Peter Newell, Kemble, Dan Beard, and
THE STANDARD PUBLISHING CO. PTY. LTD.
others equally well known.
Remember, thege are
copyrighted books sold
only by us. This is
a rare opportunity
to secure a set
which should
be in every
Australian
library.
JThe
indard
lishing
y. Ltd.
ourne
a s e
send, absolute-
ly without cost or
any obligation, illus-
trated booklet of Mark
Twain’s Complete Works
Send this form or a post card,
mentioning bulletin, 15,104.
Name
Address
THE FEDERAL DICKENS
WitH Specially Contributed
Introductions by tb e
Leading Writers of To-day.
THE delight and joy which is obtainable from the complete Works
of Charles Dickens is further increased by possessing the
"Federal Edition.”
This clearly-printed and attractively-bound Edition is abso-
lutely new, and is now being offered for the first time to the Literary
Public of Australia.
Such modern Critics and Writers as George Bernard Shaw,
John Galsworthy, Andrew Lang, Hall Caine, A. C. Bensou, William
De Morgan, Max Pemberton, etc., etc., have each contributed an
introductory essay to the main Novels of Charles Dickens.
These unique introductions illuminate and explain Dickens’s
Works in a remarkable manner, and send the reader to these wonderful
Novels with increased interest.
Another special feature is the set of new illustrations by Mr.
Charles Pears, included in this Publication. There are also a number
of color plates, by Fred Barnard, mounted on suitably-tinted paper.
The whole Edition is very attractive, and will appeal to the book-
lover anywhere, containing not only the wide margins and uncut edges
which he appreciates, but a handier, better-printed and more charm-
ingly-illustrated Edition than he could obtain before. "Edwin
Drood” is also included in this Edition.
We have prepared an illustrated prospectus showing the type,
and some of the illustrations which appear in this new Edition. For
a short while this booklet will be sent, post free, to all applicants, and
it is suggested that you use the form of application at once.
FREE BOOKLET.
The STA.XOA.ttD PUBLISHING COMPANY PTY., LTD.,
100 Flinders Street,- Melbourne.
Please send me fred" of charge, an,cj without any obligation on niy part to purchase,
full particulars of “THE FEDERAL DICKENS,” and of your special offer whereby the
thirty- volumes are delivered, carriage paid for a first payment of 6/6.
Name .
(Please send this coupon or a postcard mentioning Bulletin, 151-04. - 4
'•' ' ' '
Address ~,


rife'
Inconveniently
Shaped Parts are
Handled QuicKly by
GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. (U.S.A.)
BATTERY TRUCK CRANE.
The inconvenience of handling heavy merchandise has now
been solved by the G.E. Battery Truck Crane —-“the Crane with a
thirty-mile jib.” One machine will lift, carry 300 ft., and stack
30 1-ton cases in one hour. These cranes are provided with a
derrick to swing through an angle of 180°.
Write for further information, also for particulars of ILlecilric Vehicles
and Delivery Trucks.
9
§
21T Clarence
Street
S
dne
Cor
£> Tittle Collins Sts
Melbourne
ueen
PERTH (W.A.): Ohas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Aust., Ltd. (E.S.C.A.)
Edward Street.
-4 gents—
ADELAIDE (SiA.) : Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Dunedin, Auckland, Wellington & Christchurch.
Public Notice.
THE PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOOTH WALES LIMITED.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
rilllE TWENTY-SEVENTH ORDINARY
X GENERAL MEETING of Members
will be held in the Royal Exchange on
MONDAY, 10th OCTOBER, 1914, at noon.
BUSINESS.
To receive Reports and Balance-sheet to 30th
September, 1914.
To elect one Director in place of F. N.
Yarwood, Esq., who was appointed to
lill the vacancy caused bv the death of
E. 11. Rogers, Esq., and who offers him-
self for election.
To elect one Director in place of ,T. Moir,
Esq., who retires under Clause 82 of
the Articles of Association and who
offers himself for re-election.
To elect two Auditors in place of Messrs.
T. F. 11. Mackenzie and F. C. Jordan —
the retiring Auditors —and to fix the
. amount of their remuneration.
To consider any other business of which due
notice shall have been given in accord-
ance with the Articles of Association.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD,
Manager.
By order of the Board the Share Register
will be closed from Ist October to 22nd
October inclusive.
17 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
30th September, 1914.
Amusements.
QIUTERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee FRANK MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.10. A : C
The Young American Tragedienne, MURIEL STARR,
supported by a Brilliant Cast, in
THE YELLOW TICKET.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume-, containing -over- 300 of
-“Hop's 1 * best drawings. Price 21/-,
front “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
Twice Daily at 2.30 and 8.
TIV O L I THEATRE. SYDNEY.
1 WILMOS WESTONY. WRIGHT k DIETRICH.
FATIMA. RICH & GALVIN. CARPATU BROS.
EUGENE DAMOND. MARSHALL CROSBY.
AL HERMAN. DUSTY RHODES. JOHN EARL.
VAUDE & VERNE. PHIL KAUFMANN.
Box Plan at Theatre and Nicholson's.
I*IVOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
FLORENCE SMITHSON. POWER BROS.
GEORGE HALL. STELLING & REVELL.
TORINO. RALPH ERROLLE. TEDDY.
HAMMON k WYATT.
DE DIO. MARCO & FAUCHON WOLFF.
Box Plan at Glen’s. PRICES: 4/-, 3/-. 2/-, 1/-.
TIVOLI THEA T R E, ADELAIDE
PAUL CINQUE VALLI.
ROBERTS & LESTER.
RUSSELL & HELD. THE FOUR BOISES.
TOM KELLY. MDLLE. DAVENPORT.
FIELD k COCO. TED MERCELL.
DEXTER. JEROME & CARSON.
I—l E R M A ,J E STY’ S, S Y ONE Y.
1 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
LAST NIGHTS OF J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY ;
In the Gloom-Dispeller,
THE GIRL IN THE TAXI.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
IRTH BROS., LTD., GREATEST SHOW
ON EARTH.
34th ANNUAL SEASON
:J oniniences SATURDAY,- OCTOBER 10, '
At PJjAZA TORO, WIRTII PARK,
Which ' Iras been thoroughly • renovated and roofed
for this season.
A MAMMOTH PROGRAMME OF
FEATURE ACTS.
50 New Artists. 50.
Direct from America arid Europe.
OUR 19.1 C ATTRACTIONS THE BEST YET.
Admission to Combined Shows:
Reserved Chairs, 5/-. Plan at Glen’s. 4/-, 3/-, 2/-.
Matinees: Wednesday, Saturday, and Holidays.
1“ II IS ATK 12 II OVAL, .SVI)N 12 Y.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES'WEDNESDAY AT 2. •
NELLIE STEWART in
GEORGE MUSGROVE’S production of
PAUL liESTER’S Romantic Play,
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY
Supported by Mr. Clarence Blakiston, Mr. Lewis
Willoughby and a big company of favorites.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Paling’s.
D Al,,\ c 12 TIII2A T If 12. SVI) N K V
■ Lessee and Manager WILLIAM ANDERSON.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 3, AT 8 O’CLOCK.
The Novel, Realistic and Sensational Drama,
THE WORST WOMAN IN LONDON
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices of Admission: 3/-, 2/-
and 1/- (except Saturday). Early Doors 6d. extra.
A I> 12 I. I* II I TIII2 A T K 12. SYII N 12 Y.
” Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8 O’CLOCK.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, in conjunction with E. J.
CARROLL, presents, for the first time in Sydney,
the most talked about play in'America, entitled
THE ROSARY.
A Great, Clean, Wholesome Play.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Nicholson’s.
|UX*I2It I A L SALON HE lTuxTe.
OPENLY NIGHTLY, 8 TO 11.
DANCING.
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14.
NAYAL MILITARY BALL
in aid of dependents of those lost in Submarine
AEI.
FULL PARTICULARS LATER.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
The picture block theatres
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL. EMPRESS.
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
- W. B Altai ngtq.n Mim,i;u, General Manager.
The king’s theatre, Melbourne.
Sole Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, OCTOBER 3.
WILLIAM ANDERSON presents the Patriotic Play,
DEATH OR GLORY BOYS.
POPULAR PRICES.
H
Hit JIAJKSTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
ROYAL COMIC OPERA -COMPANY
in
GIP6Y LOVK
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices: Os., 45., 2s. and Is
It O Y A L, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, OCTOBER 3.
FOR TWELVE NIGHTS ONLY.
THE SILVER KING.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-: Gallery. 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, L’lD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, OCTOBER 3.
GEO. WILLOUGHBY, LTD., present, in conjunction
with Beaumont Smith and Louis Meyer,
THE ANGLO-CIIINESE PLAY IN THREE ACTS.
am. wu.
Prices: 5/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Plan at Pianola.
BIJOU T II E A T it E, M E L B O U R N E
FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON, 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
DAISY JEROME
and All-Star Company, including JESSIE and DOLLY
MILLAR, WINTER & FIELDS. BROWN & LAWSON.
BOGUES & OLIVETTI, BAILEY’S DOGS and HENRI
FRENCH. , , „
Prices: 2/6, 2/-, 1/- & 6d. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- & 6il.
OYT S’ PICTU R E S, MELBOURNE
BEST AND MOST.
THREE BIG SHOW S.
OLYMPIA, Princes Bridge.
NATIONAL THEATRE, Bourke Street (Eastern end).
HOYTS’ OWN, Bourke Street, centre (now building).
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL.
IItCII&C A R R O L L
(Queensland 1.
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
al centies (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
barters Towers. .
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
Dute, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
’hich we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
ompanv of Australasia Ltd.
[ead Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.


FACE COVERED
WITH DRV RASH
Then Came Out in Pimples. Would
Almost Tear Face Off. Used Cu-
ticura Soap and Cuticura Oint-
ment. Now Quite Left Her.
Barker St., Lower Itandwick, N. S. VT.—
“My eldest girl had a most dreadful face;
it was covered with a dry rash at first and
iixf
'-Or
then it came out in
pimples and when she got
warm she would almost
tear the face off her.
“I tried a few different
lotions and ointments but
it seemed to do her no
good; it would go away
for a time but only to
come back again. I was
distracted; I did not know wliat to do, when
one day my sister-in-law advised me to get
a cako of Cuticura Soap, which I did. You
would be surprised, it took all heat out of
it, but the scales were still there, so I sent for
a sample tin of Cuticura Ointment, and
would you believe it, it has quite left her
and she has had no return of it and not a
mark of any kind left.” (Signed) Mrs.
Catley, April, 1912.
Do you wish to improve your complexion,
hands or hair? If you wish a skin clear of
pimples, blackheads and other annoying
eruptions, hands soft and white, hair live
and glossy, and scalp free from dandruff
and itching, begin to-day the regular use
of Cuticura Soap for the toilet, bath and
shampoo, assisted by an occasional light
application of Cuticura Ointment. They
are most effective in treating poor com-
plexions, red, rough hands, and dry, thin
and falling hair. Sold throughout the world.
Liberal sample of each mailed free, with
32-p. Skin Book. Address R. Towns &
Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Violent Cathartics
Injure Health
Don’t take purgatives—their harsh action
is liable to injure the bowels. VY hy not use
CARTER’S UTILE LIVER
PILL*, a purely vegetable
remedy that has been
successfully used by
millions for half-a-
century. Acts
gently but surely
and not only
quickly re-
lieves but
for ever
Carter’s
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
ends the misery of cons’ipation. Use them for dizzi-
ness, ir.dig stion, sick headache and all liver troubles.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The
GENUINE
must bear
Signature
f
/%
{(
or
3
/
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the" above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
age, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. H.
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. B. ALLEN’S (u.s.a.)
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suitable
for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
Cigar and Cigarette
Smokers’ Attention.
SEND Eight Shillings for trial box of
100 Manila Cigars, Best Grade. Eight
Shillings for 500 Philippine Cigarettes—cork
tipped—Best Grade. Satisfaction or Money
refunded.
Sent prepaid by registered parcel post to
any address on receipt of price.
Write for handsome illustrated free cata-
logue.
PATTINGELL 8 CO., Lucetva, Tayabas, P.I.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of I'reeliold or .Leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury liills of any of the Australian States or New
Zealand. WAT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borroweis the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; The Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; The
Mon. James Burns, M.L.C.; The Hon. R. J. Black,M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. E. Winchombe, M.L.C.; Adrian
Knox Esq K.C. ; Sir Alex. MacCormick. M.D. General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teece, F.1.A.,
F.F.A.. F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY. Secretary.
ANEMIA
and Weakness
in Men, Women, and Children
Dr. ANDREW WILSON writes :
“It can be definitely stated
“that Iron ‘Jelloids’ constitute
“ the most effective and desirable
“ treatment for Anaemia or Poor-
ness of Blood. The sufferer is able
“to take Iron ‘Jelloids’ without danger,
“even with pleasure, and with the sure
“knowledge that benefit will accrue.”
and re “MEN AND TONICS.”
“ There is a curious notion entertained by
“ the General Public that Iron Medicaments
“ are necessary for women only, and not for
“ Men. This is an erroneous idea. Now I
“ have found the form of Iron ‘Jelloids ’ put
“up with Quinine (called Iron ‘Jelloids’
“No. 2a) to be an excellent tonic for men,
“and may be specially recommended.”
Breathing, hurried and gasping, on the slightest exertion, pale cheeks
lacking the ruddy glow of health, bloodless lips, a general feeling of weari-
ness—accompanied maybe by pain after food, indigesti >n constipation,
listlessness, inability of application to any pursuit or even train of thought
depression of spirits, and irritability of temper. Such symptoms indicate
Anaemia, and should, on no account, be neglected.
*
will remove the causes and symptoms of Anaemia. Iron is
what your system requires. By taking it in the form of Iron
‘ Jelloids ’ the not uncommon disadvantages of other Iron
tonics are avoided. No ill-effects are set up. No constipation.
No “rust ”in the stomach. No danger of non-absorption.
No fear of injury to the teeth. If you would have radiant
health, an elastic step and well-braced nerves, you must
have healthy blood. To improve and strengthen the blood
take Iron ‘Jelloids,’ commended by Medical Men, and
favourably reviewed by the Medical Press. As a general
tonic Iron ‘Jelloids ’ are excellent. They are pleasant and
easy to take.
A Reliable Tonic
Mrs C F Ware, "The New Road, Gravesend, writes:— “lreallv
must write and let you knowhow my “little girl has improved in health
since she has taken Iron ‘Jelloids.’ I used to have bottles of medicine for
her, but she would not take it without a lot of coaxing, whereas she takes
the’ 1 jelloids’ without the least bit of trouble.”
A Fortnight’s Trial (price 1/6) will
convince you.
IRON JELLOIDS ARE SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALIA.
No. i for Children ; No. 2 for Adults, Men and Women ;
No. 2A (containing Ouinine) Special Tonic for Men.
Wholesale: DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES LTD., 82, Pitt Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Manufactured only by
The * Jelloid’ Co., 205, City Rd., London, England.
SHEAR WITH THE FAMOUS
FALKINER EEECTMC EQUIPMENT
Wk
Invented by a practical Australian Pastoralist, it will be found Ihe
FALKINER ELECTRIC SHEEP SHEARING Machine combines
many striking advantages, of which the following are a few:—
(1) It is easy to erect.
(2) Entire absence of trouble-
some line shafting.
(3) Independent motor for each
man.
(4) Electric power available for
shed lighting.
(5) Th 3 patent universal joint
enables the shearer to
work with oase and com-
fort.
(S) Any hand piece may be
used.
(7) Silent running and practi-
cally no vibration.
(8) No special type of shed
necessaiy the Fai!< ner
Electric Machine will fit
any shed, old or new.
(9) Electricity is the safest.
cheapest and cleanest
power!
This machine, which has been patented all over
the world, stands unique in design, sin pie in con-
struction, and unequa'led in small consumption of
power. Sheep are shorn at the minimum of cost
and the maximum of efficiency.
Write for full details, also for our illustrated leaflet
dealing with the Electric Lighting of Shearing Sheds.
FALK I N E R
ELECTRIC COY.
103-5 William St., Melbourne, and Somerset House, 5 Moore St., Sydney
The Inky Way.
It was appropriate that the Times should
l>r> the lirst paper to be jumped on by the
British Government for publishing alarmist
war-items. It had the same experience
nearly 60 years ago, when its correspondent
in the Crimea exposed in his letters the
awful state of destitution in which the army
before Sebastopol existed during the autumn
and winter of 1854-5. It was not the whole
army, but those engaged in the siege, who
suffered. They were encamped seven miles
from Balaclava, and were totally destitute
of transport animals and vehicles. Also,
their boots were made of brown paper and
their uniforms of a substance almost equally
perishable. When the Times showed up
the incompetence of those in authority, and
the villainy of the war-contractors, the first
effect was to cause a maddened cry of “dis-
loyalist” and “traitor” to be raised against
it. Later, however, came the realisation of
the reasonableness of its attitude, and the
downfall of the Aberdeen Government.
Palmerston was the next Prime Minister,
and he worked like a tiger to put tilings
straight. It is remarkable that a British
Prime Minister, in view of Crimean, not to
mention S’African, experience, should ven-
ture to ask, and that a British House of
Commons should be willing to grant, the
power to gag the press in war-time.
* * * ■*
“Adelaide” : How long do the well-meaning
people who insert In Memoriam advts. in the
dailies keep it up? Three years would be
an outside average, probably, and anything
approaching 10 years a marvel. Therefore
a notice of that kind in London Times
(81/7/T4) seems worth entering for the
record. A lady commemorates her father,
who died in 1888. That is something like
fidelity to a memory. Which of us will be
mourned to the cash value of 7s. Od. 26 years
after death?
■*• * * *
Adelaide newspapers have developed re-
markably under the influence of war-cables.
The Mail, a new Satnrday-niglit-and-Sun-
day-supplement-for-family-reading twopenny,
which Clarence Moody and Rex Syme left
the Register to Fcart, received so much
cable news that it found itself pushed (it
says) into the position of publishing every
afternoon. The Register and ’Tiser
quickly hit back, for they shared a monopoly
of afternoon papers previously. The first
Sunday of the war they appeared just as
though it were a week-day. Presently they
announced that their Saturday-afternoon
editions, Journal and Express respectively,
with the night cables added, would be deliv-
ered at subscribers’ houses for Sunday
breakfast —and for a penny. Thus
Adelaide has practically three seven-days-a-
week papers. The Labor daily, the Herald.
keeps out of the scramble. Though doing
good work as the party organ, it has not yet
sufficient resources to go beyond its six
morning issues per week.
“Canto Nine” : As a financial member of
the Poets’ Union, I beg to make a timely
suggestion, viz., that war poets should get
out of the Kioling habit of making the
typical (beautiful word private
soldier use shocking grammar. When the
mentally secluded literary person puts in
the patriotic stop and prepares to give a
lifelike imitation of a Wild, Rough Fellow
talking to his intimates, he suppresses the
“h” and jettisons every final “g.” Since
Kipling, every verse soldier has been fiercely
and defiantly ungrammatical: and English
war verse has lost a great deal in melody and
dignity. I’m glad Rrdyard came too lam
to write up the Light Brigade and the battle
of Nicopolis and a few other classics. At
any rate. I would implore local patriotic
singers to give the intelligent Australian
soldier credit for his sound public-school
education. A grammatical soldier would be
another good ad. for the place.
“Lazarus” : Two stranger characters never
appeared in Australian journalism than
Richard Egan Lee. junior, and Douglas
Jerrold’s brother. Jerrold was a mixture of
Rip Van Winkle and Admirable Crichton.
Covered with hair and dust, and carrying a
stick like a dothes-prop he would anply for
a job on a bush rag with the intimation that
he could “edit, sub-edit, report, read, can-
vass and set type.” Dick Lee nearly ruined
the Australian Journal with an appalling
item. He was one of the thinnest men on
earth. Also he could live for years on
skilly. A walk from Sydney to Melbourne
was only a circumstance in his life. The
Melbourne Herald had the luck to secure
him during AY. G. Grace’s first visit. Dick
wrote in the Herald that Grace and the other
English cricketers swilled beer out of a tin
pail at the M.C.C. pavilion. Further, he
invented an atrociously libellous letter by
Grace to a friend in England. Dick was
just one day on the Bendigo Independent.
His report of a political meeting brought
abject apologies from the paper next day
and gained him the sack. In Sands’s
Kyneton Observer he wrote about Mrs.
Wheeler, of the Castlemaine Representa-
tive : “When a female baboon squats in a
gutter and slings mud at respectable jour-
nalists, it is time to protest.” Her brothers
came and larruped Sands, who had done
nothing, Richard having departed in quest of
fresh thrills.
THE PESSIMIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He .used to haunt the reading-room
Which 1 frequent, a month ago.
And sighing, with a face of gloom,
Which made the place seem like a tomb,
Complain because the times were slow.
“There’s nothing in the papers now,
There's rever any news to hand,
No murders, no disasters ; how
The public read ’em, I avow
Is more than I can understand!
“The cables haven’t got a shred
Of interest. They’re trite and flat.
And politics are mostly dead
And buried!” Here he'd shake his head
And sigh, as he put on his hat.
I met him yesterday again :
llis face was dark—his humor raw.
“Well, what’s the news?” I asked him. Then
He growled: “You can’t expect news when
The paper’s full of this d —d war!”
QUEENSLAND.
NORMAN’ CAMPBELL.


The Recognised Leading House for all
/■SMOKERS & SHAVERS’ REQUISITES
PIPES
H
I
G
H
S««
G
R
A
D
E
S.N.L. Pipes, made from finest quality old
briar root, with superior hand-cut Para vul-
canite mouthpieces. Heavy Silver mounts.
All shapes ........ 3/- each (post free)
“Goudron,” finest quality
Natural Block
Meerschaum Pipes.
THE
SWEETEST
AND
COOLEST
SMOKING
PIPES EVER PRODUCED.
Para Vulcanite Mouthpieces, in case,
8/0, 10/6, 12/6, 14/6, 16/0, 21/-
cach (post free).
Natural Pressed Amber Mouthpieces,
in case,
12/6, 14/6, 10/6, 18/6, 25 /. each
(post free).
CIGARS
QUALITE
DE LUXE.
“Golden Key”
Cigars, of exquisite
aroma and infinite
cliarm.
The Standard
of Luxury
in Smoking.
m
Put up in cedar cabinets containing •
25 cigars, 11/6; 50 cigars, -2/6
(post free).
Sample boxes of 5 cigars, 2/6 (post
free).
CIGARETTES.
Delightful, Fascinating
“Three Witches”
Cigarettes, made from
selected, sun-ripe
Virginian Tobacco.
Finest quality.
5/- per 100 (post
free;.
Three Witches
8. Sons l?
TOBACCOS.
‘Stinol,” highest grade Virginian, awarded 4
gold medals. Dark or Light. In plug Ol'
cut, 6/- per lb. (post free).
‘LiOnus” Smoking Mixture, choicest tobaccos,
skilfullv blended. Put up in 2oz. tins.
8/6 per lb. (post free).
Tobacco Poticbes.
H
A
N
D
Y
m
nl4)
KWS
m
G
0
M
P
A
G
T
Wallet Pouch, Split Calf
„ ~ Real Morocco ..
„ „ Calf Crocodile ..
„ „ Gazelle
„ Velvet Calf ....
2/9 each
3/6 „
4/6 «
5/- »
6/6 »
POCKET LIGHTERS.
The “Sunol” Pocket
Lighter. 'Every smoker
should have ‘one. ’ Simple
in construction. Nothing
to get out of order.
2/- each (post free).
CIGAR and CIGARETTE
HOLDERS.
Amber Cigar Holders, silver rim,
in case, 6/6, 7/6 each.
Amber Cigar Holders, gold rim,
in case, 10/6, 11/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, silver
rim, in case 4/- 4/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, gold rim, in
case 7/6, 8/6 each.
SHAVING SETS.
N
0
T
H
I
N
G
nwemm.
B
E
T
T
E
R
Shaving Sets, comprising'l renowned C. 8.8.
Razor, 1 C. 8.8. Razor Strop, 1 Badger Hair
Shaving Brush, and stick Williams’s Soap-
-18/6 (post free).
RAZORS
R
A
R
E
Q
u
A
L
I
T
Y
The “Hitite” Razor, pronounced by experts
to be absolutely perfect. None to
equal it. Kept in good order for 2 years,
free of charge —
Vulcanite Handle 7/6 each (post free).
Ivory Handle 10/6 each (post free).
SAFETY RAZORS.
The Celebrated “Auto Strop” Safety
Razor, complete with 12 blades and strop,
in leather case '. . 22/6 (post free).
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney
Branches : CITY , SUBURBS and NEWCASTLE.
r
m m
A
RAPID
Mechanical Calculation
with insured accuracy and maximum speed
is obtainable only in the “Comptometer.”
Whether addition, subtraction, division or
multiplication you have your answer 'n
plain view with just the pressing of keys.
So light and compact that it may be
readily carried about as your work may
require. Saves time. Prevents errors
and gives entire freedom
from nervous and mental
strain. No toy, but is built
for real work.
ADDS —SUBTRACTS —
MULTIPLIES —DIVIDES
in Pounds, Shillings, Pence and Farthings.
We have prepared an interesting book entitled
“Rapid Mechanical Calculations,” which we will
gladly send to anyone free on request.
FELT & TARRANT MFG. CO.,
London, New York, Chicago, Toronto, Paris, Berlin, Buenos Aires, etc.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS.—Peacock Bros., 214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210 Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
Insist on “ Singleton s* —refuse all substitutes.
i i
CARBIDE
9 9
Asi for
“PERNIX,”
and see that
you get it, with
the trade mark
“PERNIX” on every Cask and Dru>.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED*
62 Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Ag. nts for Australia.
M
FAIRBANKS-MORSE SEMI-DIESEL
Heavy Duty Marine Engines
Not limited to one fuel, these type “CO” Engines run perfectly on
many grades of oil. Use low-priced fuels that are easily obtainable,
greatly decreasing operating cost of work boats and fishing boats.
Let us give you particulars. Ask for Catalog 1939-26 E.
FAIRBANKS, MORSE ®. CO.,
C. H. Relph,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Webster & Co., Ltd.,
Brisbane, Queensland.
Malloch Bros.,
Perth, W.A.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
I books YOU CAN’T GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OK NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkrrie
England, 6d. How to Gkt Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly's Art
ok Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Danck, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moli.
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiib
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Madk Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tioSist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle ok the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyhook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling. Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History ok the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce. Us. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford) q d The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
Cod and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
la 3d Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
" Staining 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets. Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Trick wm Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
‘ la 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
TOS 6d *AP S ™ A UAN PASTRYCOOK’S GUIDE. Is 6d.
m
m
m
i
■
HOfV\E CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PEA IN' HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Panes.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and snows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in piain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
. women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of ’this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. Hod to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. ThR Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Skip Instructor : Evbry Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Like of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. W annan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these priees Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SEM-
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d post. Ur. Milford s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, -s •
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of ™
Kino, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. t
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Covers
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, •
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to an
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. \Ksr Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology,
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 28. HOW TO ItKAD HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievassk s Advice io a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Kong
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is P ost,ie( 7
Bennarr Macfadden's Works, all at n L
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers an.> Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wifes H . •
is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. .00 aew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervous.-
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Websters Large un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 lllus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why paj _
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is- •* * ‘
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moores L . -
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, iOtepaes,
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Ccairvotancr,
is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and m usic coni
plete), is 6d posted. Tiie Age of RkasoN, by ™',
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


KIDNEY TROUBLES AND BACKACHE.
A Great Sufferer Cured by
DR. SHELDON’S GIN PILLS.
!v!::v:v , -v»v.>v;v! : !v!\»
.%v.%v.%v.
.WA'.V.V.
v.%*r
.v.v.v,v.v
:.v.v.v.*v7
1=
Mrs. MYRA LAKE
(From a Photo.).
Gin Pills are a splendid medicine for all women, and I shall
them, and also keep a bottle in the house.”
“I have been a
great sufferer with
kidney troubles
and gravel ever
since my baby was
born, about 18
months a g o,”
writes Mrs. Myra
Lake, 11 Hartley
Street, Ilozellc,
N.S.W. “The pain
in my side was so
severe that I used
to moan. I also
suffered with scald-
ing, and my water
was like mud. For
my complaints I
tried everything I
could think of, but
I derived no bene-
fit whatever. One
day I managed to
crawl up to my
mother’s place, and
she gave me a
bottle of Dr. Shel-
don’s Gin Pills, for
she said they were
the only thing that
would do me any
good. I took my
mother’s advice
and used the pills,
and they cured my
back, also my
other ailments, and
have made a new
woman of me alto-
gether. I can
now get ahead
with my house-
hold duties as well
as ever I did in my
life. Dr. Sheldon’s
always recommend
I The Reliable Remedy for Ailing: Women. |
Backache and Kidney Trouble are only too prevalent nowadays, and to suc-
cessfully cure them it is necessary to use a special remedy designed particularly
for this trouble. Such a remedy is Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which have attracted
so much attention in Australia during the past two years, on account of their
having relieved so many cases of this kind.
They are a specially prepared Backache and Kidney Pill, entirely different
from any other remedy on the market, and infinitely more efficacious. A trial
will convince the most sceptical. Sold in two size glass containers, at 1/6 and
2/6 per bottle.
DrSheldon*
LLS
for BACKACHE
and Kidney Troubles
a “ Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
"• 'Swam Safety
Can't Leak,
Blot, Miss,
ox* Scratch !
Catalogue free on request.
MArflE, TODD & CO., London and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE^
Sold by' all Stationers
Branches. and Jewellers.
*5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a Oeorge St., Sydney.
Constable: “What, don’t know
where to buy Eight-Hour Tickets!
Why, you can get them anywhere. I
knowed the man who got first prize
last year. This year he has gone
away fighting and left a Ticket with
his wife. Get a move on and buy
one at once.”
PHIZES Value £4OOO
... in the ...
8-Hour Art Union and Sports
(Under sanctitn of the Attorney-General).
DRAWN OCTOBER 81, 1914.
Ist Prize, value £B5O. 2nd Prize, value £4OO.
3rd Prize, value £3OO. And 397 other Valuable
Prizes, ranging in value from £l5O.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on
November 5. To any person forwarding stamped, addressed
envelope, a list of the results will be posted.
EVERYONE HAS AN EQUAL CHANCE.
IT MAY BE YOURS THIS TIME.
BUY YOUR TICKETS EARLY.
Only One Shilling - Each,
Tickets may be had from Agents Everywhere, or direct
from
JOHN AY. DOYLE, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney. Eight Hour Committee.
ON TNE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwr.-ds of Three
hundred of “Hop's” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s,
Hymn of the Summer.
(With Refrain by Conscience or Still, Small
Voice. )
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHAT though the war’s excursions
and alarms
Fright us in horrible and ten-line
type,
Here is the summer breeze and all its balms;
Here the new morning plays upon his pipe.
East, the Pacific floats up to the sky,
The waratah burns on his sandy shelf,
Come walk with me where there is no one by.
“Do not trust him, gentle maiden, 1 have
gathered ferns myself.”
My dear Pacific, that from the far East
Comes now to dash upon his sandstone floor.
Life spreads the tablecloth for this, our feast,
Love rises from the foam and comes ashore.
What though the war our income puts to
flight,
What though we drink from clay and eat
from delf,
Be thou my girl and see the stars to-night.
“Do not trust him, gentle maiden, I have
gathered ferns myself. ’
There is a carpet of the salt-blown grass,
There is a glen starred with the flannel
flower,
The serried waratahs refuse to pass
Us through the lines unless we kiss an hour.
Let there be peace with us, nor faction lift
Up its scarred head of Ghibelline or Guelph,
Let but your dowry be love and one shift.
“Do not trust him, gentle maiden, I have
gathered ferns myself.”
Sweet sings the summer to our dalliance,
Low swings the rhythm wherein I tell my
joy—
Each native rose and waratah’s romance
And the old comedy of girl and boy.
1 want thee only, oh ! Pacific flower,
Come without jewels—leave . them all thy
pelf.
Bring but thy beauty and thy love for
dower.
“Do not trust him, gentle maiden, I have
gathered ferns myself.”
N.s.w.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
A Backblock Pubbery
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A STRANGER staying awhile at the
Travellers’ Rest, which was an
ancient caravansary in a remote
backblock town, and seeing nobody appear-
ing on the dull scene day after day, and only
himself and a multitude of flies answering
the bell for meals, might well wonder how
the place paid its license, especially as there
was a rival pub in the vicinity waiting with
equal patience for someone to come along
with a thirst.
The Travellers’ Rest was kept by “our
esteemed citizen and genial host, Mr. Jere-
miah Grum,” as the local correspondent of
the Mulgaland Recorded described him on
the occasion when he fell down the cellar
and hurt his leg. If the stranger liked a
drop, and had money to spend, Mr. Grum
was certainly genial, and helped in a great
variety of ways to while away the tedious
hours; but if he only wanted board and
lodging, he soon realised that the host was
Grum in more than name. He was left to
his own resources —and the main resources
were to 101 l round and meditate on the
dreariness of existence, 'and to watch the
lifeless horizon for a chance comer, and to
smack at flies, and to walk up and down
when he wearied of inactivity. He
couldn’t read, for Mr. Grum didn’t sub-
scribe to the Recorder, and lie left no litera-
ture about that customers might become
absorbed in and so lose interest in cards and
dice and the billiard table. Books and news-
papers were injurious to business. There
was a piano on the premises, but Miss Grum
only played between drinks to customers
who were merry; and if one wanted to do a
little spooning with Miss Grum at other
times he had to do it across the bar. She
was a chip of the old block. She liked her
admirers in mellow mood, and had no use
for the teetotal stranger who wished to
amuse himself cheaply and kill time without
expense.
When the monotony was broken anon by
the appearance of travelling cattle, and
drovers spent the evening and a good part
of next day there; when shearers arrived in
little jovial crowds from cut-out sheds, and
chucked money about as though it were as
plentiful as pebbles, then the stranger began
to understand things a little. He glimpsed
the marvellous recuperative possibilities of
a place that more than half its time had no
visible means of support.
In the off-season there might be a three-
months’ wait for a customer; but that
customer might be worth a hundred pounds
to mine host. Jerry. Travellers indiscreetly
pulled up to have a drink in passing ; they
got talking, having another, and just one
more, until nothing at all mattered but “one
more,” and in the end they parted with
everything that was negotiable, and “left a
dog tied up” as well.
Jerry knew everybody within a radius of
200 miles. He knew the steady workers
and the good payers, and these could get
unlimited credit at the pubbery and a swag
of bottled liquor to go home with. It might
be six months before Jerry would see one
of these debtors again, but he was quite
content to wait for his money. His booking
business was extensive. Every drink that
had to be booked was particularised as
“refreshments.” There were some suspicious-
minded people who generally had a hazy
idea, when they came to settle up, that
Jerry’s book was a liar.
His bar reminded one of a spider’s web,
cunningly set to catch the passing fly. A
man might have no intention of calling
whatever. This the watchful spider observed
when he passed a certain point without turn-
ing. Then he was hailed, and the spider
stepped out to inquire about a team lie
wasn’t expecting, or an imaginary person
named Smith, or the state of a waterhole
that didn't concern him. Then he struck up
a conversation, and insidiously lured the fly
to step into his parlor. The dice-box was
conspicuous on the counter, and when there
was too long an interval between the jingle
of sixpences it was introduced like a good
old friend whose hand he must take. There
were indoor quoits strewn under his feet,
and various reminiscences on tap concerning
them to lead to a game. There was a ring
suspended from the centre of the ceiling,
with a hook on the wall, doing its little part
in keeping the caller on the premises, and
filling in time between shouts. There were
cards and draughts and chess and dominoes
calling for players. There were attractive
pictures, clippings and notices on the walls,
preserved snakes on the shelves, which were
handed down for inspection; some tricks
and puzzles that he would be invited to try
his hand at; and there was the billiard-table.
Besides these, at times when there was
likely to be a little more traffic than usual,
a deadbeat was retained on the premises,
whose office was to hang about and talk some
conversation into the ears of unsuspecting
visitors, and introduce the cards to the
cheque man.
When shearing was on at any shed within
ten miles or so, Jerry sent out a waggonette
(known as the Lambs’ Express) on Satur-
day afternoon, and particularly at cut-out,
for the convenience of any of the men “who
would like a run down for a change.” It
was not uncommon to see Miss Grum on a
seat behind the. driver, lonesome and sweet.
And in the course of sundry chats with
Tom, Dick and Harry she lost no oppor-
tunity of expatiating on (he delights of a
dance they were going to have that night.
Dances and girls usually hooked a good many
shearers.
According to the notice over Jerry’s door,
he was “Licensed to sell fermented and
spirituous liquors” ; but in the glorious days
of lambing down, when Jerry was younger,
and grew fat and independent, he dispensed
some astonishing mixtures —known as
tanglefoot, snake-juice, paralysers, double-
distilled lightning, mulga rum and blue-
murder rousers. It was customary for a
man to hand his cheque over with an injunc-
tion to notify him when it was cut out.
Then Bushy would proceed to paint things
vermilion; every available man within coo-ee
would be called up to assist in the process ;
and after a few stiffeners the whole lot
would be spread out in various unpremedi-
tated attitudes about the place.
Those good times lived long, and their
passing was deeply regretted. Many a one
came in with a pair of good horses and a
first-class outfit, and a week later tramped
away with a scanty swag on his back, and
a head like a volcano. Travellers with big
cheques, bound for “down below,” sometimes
called for a wet in passing, and in a few
minutes were “dead to the world.” Eventu-
ally, like the others, they went back to the
bush on foot to make another start. Usually
iri such cases no statement of account was
asked for or given; in fact, no accounts
were kept. The life of a cheque was
decreed on the highest estimate of what the
company could drink in a given time.
Election day was a glorious one in those
times. Candidates shouted barrels of beer,
which were rolled out into the street. The
crowd gathered round them, helping them-
selves till the soakers, of whom there was a
sprinkling in every crowd, got down to it
and slept off their debauch round the empty
barrels like so many gorged pigs round a
trough. It was common, too, on election
day for free drinks to be served out to all
comers at the bars. The electors refreshed
themselves at the expense of one candidate
at Jerry Grum’s, and at the expense of the
other candidate at the rival pub. thus being
divided according to their political views
into two big drinking contingents, each
endeavoring by any means possible to
capture votes from the opposition. Men
were inveigled into trap houses, where drink
was stored ; others were openly kidnapped,
and, having been made blissfully drunk,
they were led up like lambs to the slaughter
to vote for the wrong party. There was
no such thing as splitting votes in that
township, as there was no pub for a third
candidate.
A hard-working, hard-drinking bush con-
tractor known as Morginty Bob struck
Jerry’s hotel one day in that hogging period,
and the way Morginty’s finances evaporated
was described in immortal rhyme by the
local poet (every backblock town has a
local poet) :
They were twenty ’ardened boozers out o’ jobs,
An’ though answ’rin’ to such names as Jack an’
Pat,
Jerry's ledger made ’em all “Morginty Bobs,”
An’ it was no use o’ contradictin’ that!
Bob was fat —
But the leeches couldn’t muster up a sprat.
In the saner time that followed the days
of lambing down, the thirsty souls of Out-
back took more care of their hard-earned
wealth. Still the old spider had many ways
of catching the fat fly, and once he got him
safely trapped he squeezed every drop of
juice out of him.
Soft drinks were rarely to be had at
Grum’s pubbery. Only a few liquors of a
specially-paralysing character were kept in
stock. The bottlelessness of his bar-room
at most times would have made a city man
feel lonely. Perhaps not more than a dozen
receptacles would meet the eye, and they
were mostly rum and brandy, and whisky
concocted of pale brandy and water. He
served brandy and whisky out of the same
bottle in emergencies. Rum was the most
profitable tipple to Jerry. It gathered
strength, and was a good patient in the
doctor’s hands. Every fortnight or so a
strong brew of black tea was dumped into
it. When it gave out, under exceptional
circumstances, an imitation made from
chemicals, or an extract of boiled-down
casks, strengthened with pain-killer, methy-
lated spirits or tobacco, could be substituted.
Much of the wine he sold was made from
chemicals; likewise the vinegar on the table
was often simply sour beer from the bottom
of casks. A fairly good liquor was served
out to any sober man who was likely to be
a judge; but as he progressed through the
(Continued on next page.)


SYMPTOMS » KIDNEY TROUBLE
such as Lumbago, Rheumatism, Dropsy,
Backache, Gravel, Stone, Sciatica
and Bladder Disorders
ARE SERIOUS.
m
m
I
I
u
1
V
s
mi
ik
You never know what complications kidney trouble may lead to.
Healthy kidneys purify the blood and enable it to vitalise the system,
but when the kidneys are weakened or diseased this all-important process is
reversed. Poisons and waste matter remain in the blood, to spread disease
throughout the body.
Uric acid is your worst enemy in this respect, for its jagged crystals
settle iii the muscles, nerves and joints, and agonise each movement of
your limbs.
That sharp, shooting pain in the back is Lumbago —the pain that darts
through the thigh or leg is Sciatica —the sickening ache and constant pain
across the shoulders and in the hands, knees and joints is Rheumatism.
Only most careful treatment and a special kidney medicine can revive
the failing kidneys, and Doan's Backache Kidney Pills are for the kidneys
and bladder only —they gently regulate, heal and strengthen them, and
enable the kidneys to drain the uric acid and collected water from the body,
to cleanse and purify the blood and to flush and soothe the urinary system.
Doan's Backache Kidney Pills do not act on the bowels.
Cured to Stay Cured.
‘ Every Picture
tells a Story.'
A SYDNEY MAN,
Mr. Frederick Bradd. Boundary Road,
Mortdale, Sydney, says: "I caught a
severe cold, which settled in my kidneys,
and caused severe backache. I suffered
intense pain, and could not stoop or
move about freely. I did not know what
to do to get ease, for the remedies I used
did me no good. Seeing an advertise-
ment for Doan’s Backache Kidney Bills
led me to try these pills. They did me
good right from the first dose, and in a
short time I was cured. I have no sign
of backache now, and attribute my cure
solely to Doan’s Backache Kidney Bills.”
Six years later Mrs. Bradd says : “My
husband has been free of backache ever
since Doan's Backache Kidney Bills cured
him six years ago.”
A SYDNEY WOMAN
Mrs. D. English, 120 a Phillip Street.
Sydney, says: "About six years ago I
commenced to suffer with kidney disease,
and at times I was so had that I had to
take to my bed. I used plasters, etc.,
trying for a cure, but nothing did me
any good. Hearing Doan's Backache
Kidney Pills spoken of as excellent for
kidney trouble led me to try them. They
completely cured me, and during the
past three years I have been perfectly
well. I can truthfully recommend other
sufferers to use them.”
Three years later Mrs. English con-
firms her previous statement: ‘‘Doans
Backache Kidney Pills cured me of
kidney trouble over six years ago. and I
have been well ever since. I have
recommended this remedy to scores of
people, and they all speak well of it.”
_/n Dc,a ? s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at
7/' E£, r booties 15/3) ; or posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan
Co., < b Pitt Street, Sydney.
DOAN’S
PILLS
PILES
A Lasting Cure by
DOANS OINTMENT.
Mr. Edgar Wood, Boussole Road, Ilaceyville, Sydney, says: “For 17 years I
suffered with itching and protruding piles. During that time I was treated
by several well-known Sydney doctors. I also tried chemists’ prescriptions, and used
every remedy advertised to cure this complaint, but nothing gave me the slightest
relief. The irritation-was so great that it caused me annoyance during the day,
and kept me awake for hours at night. I almost despaired of ever getting anything
to relieve me, as. I had experienced so many failures. However, I saw au article
in the paper stating that Doan’s Ointment had cured a well-known Sydney man who
had suffered with this complaint for 20 years. I at once got this ointment, and
am very pleased to tell you that the first application gave me relief. I continued
using it until I was perfectly cured. My cure means a lot to me, and is wonderful
after suffering for 17 years. Since my cure I have recommended Doan’s Ointment to
other sufferers, and will always do so. I wish you to publish this statement, so that
people suffering with piles may know the value of Doan's Ointment.”
Mr. W ood says, 11 years after the above was given : “I am still free of idles.
Doan’s Ointment made a perfect cure in my case, for I have been free of itching
and protruding piles for the past 11 years.”
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all Chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per pot,
or po?t free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
various stages of intoxication he went
through a course of bottles containing as
many grades and qualities till he was finally
drinking the water the glasses were washed
iu-
Close to hand the observant visitor
noticed what was apparently the same
blend of spirit kept in separate bottles,
which were used in accordance with the
condition or social standing of the customer.
There were the magistrate's or the sergeant’s
bottle, the squatter’s bottle, the boundary-
rider’s bottle, the drunks’ bottle and the
bfacks’ bottle. The latter contained a vile
mixture composed of dregs from the glasses,
perhaps a promiscuous blending of every
liquor served out for a month past. The
drunks’ bottle contained mostly water;
occasionally it was “dosed” and put the
recipient to sleep, when he could be con-
veniently stowed away in the dead-house —
minus Ids cheque. That was considerably
diminished, if not wiped out, for him while
lie slept—which was a fine consideration for
his health. When he came to his senses
he found a horrifying array of dead marines
strewn about him, including one or two
under his pillow, from which he deduced
that he had been having a glorious time,
lie would feel bad enough, anyhow, to have
swallowed a distillery.
Financial drunks were shepherded with
the most commendable care. If one hap-
pened to slip over to the rival pub before
he had become too far shikkered to hand
liis money over to the barman for safe
: custody, someone would be sent across with
the information that a telegram had just
conic for him, or somebody wanted to see
him on urgent business. Enticed back, lie
, was assiduously waited upon and entertained
until he was well tanked. Then lie was
locked up in a back room, and as much grog
brought in to him as he liked to ask for.
If he got a few hours’ sleep during the night
he might feel fairly steady in the morning,
and inclined for a ramble round. But his
money wasn’t done yet. so his boots couldn't
be found, or it was necessary to send his
clothes to the wash, “as lie slipped into a
puddle-hole last night.” He had a pick-me-
up—which often knocked him down, and,
clothed in a misfit suit that he didn’t care to
be seen abroad in lie had breakfast, after
which he was wheedled into a game of
cards, and so gradually worked back into
the lockup and the entertaining company of
fantods.
It was common knowledge that Jerry got
the biggest cheque out of every shearing
shed about, and from nearly every squattage.
There was hardly a job of any kind that
was done in the neighborhood that did not
add something to his till. Naturally lie
was on the Progress Committee, and took
an enormous interest in the development of
the district, especially in the way of build-
ing culverts, making roads, putting down
bores, excavating tanks and erecting schools
and other nublic buildings—excepting public
houses. All these meant an expenditure of
money and the employment of many men.
and the jobs were calculated to make men
thirsty. He liked to see the road in a very
bad condition a little way from the hotel
on each side, and good and level just oppo-
site. where teams could rest after a stiff null
over the bad parts: and of course Jerry’s
window, decorated with a tempting assort-
ment of bottles and staring the heated
drivers in the face, would remind them that
a drink would go very well just then. Jerry
snent a lot of his superabundance of spare
time in devising ways and means of attract-
ing business.
For all that Jerry’s life was not all beer
and skittles. He was nominally lord of his
house: but in reality his house was every-
body’s. lie was never his own master, and
had no time that he could call his own.
From six in the morning till eleven at night
were his legal hours, but the travelling
public and the people about him didn’t recog-
nise any closing time at all. He might be
just gettirig to sleep at midnight after a
hard day when lie would be roused again by
late comers. Occasionally the rap-tap at
the door was unheeded ; then it was repeated
at his bedroom window, and continued until
he got out and admitted the disturber. That
person might be a stranger or an old
customer, lie might want a bed or only a
drink. Sometimes the desideratum was an
oyster supper (the oysters being tinned) :
and not infrequently the fuming publican
was called out of bed to serve a “Jimmy
Woodser.” which he was asked to book. And
these fellows talked and talked and talked,
and took offence if the impatient drum
didn’t show that he was pleased to sit up
and listen. Men. too, who had been drink-
ing during the night, put in an appearance
again about daylight for a reviver. He
would hear himself being hailed in this
fashion :
“Mr. drum!” softly and courteously.
No answer..
“Mr. Gruin three notes higher, dotting
impatient.
No answer.
“Hey, Drum !” loudly, and becoming dis-
courteous.
Still no answer.
“JEREMIAH dRUM— *•* ! ***? ! !”
This would be accompanied by a fierce
rapping on the window, followed by a lump
of road metal bouncing violently on the roof.
As business was not continuous, Jerry
was his own barman, manager, butcher,
stockrider and groom. Sometimes he worked
for months at contracts, leaving the care of
the hostelry to Mrs. and Miss drum during
the day, and taking up the duties at night.
When the police were about Jerry fre-
quently found himself between two fires.
Men in various stages of intoxication in-
sisted on gambling—and they gambled with
an excess of noise and endless argument.
They were keen on thumping the piano,
and singing and dancing; and Jerry ran the
risk of losing good customers by stopping
it. and of being fined by permitting it to go
on. When he mildly remonstrated with the
more obstreperous persons they threw beer
and insults at him. and some wanted to
fight him. Jerry did not forget that it was
whisky talking—his whisky—and lie let it
pass in the interests of business.
His pubbery was periodically visited by
half a, dozen squatters’ sons. When they
had imbibed more freely than wisely they
rode their horses into the bar. and insisted
on the indignant landlord refreshing each
animal with a drop out of a lemonade bottle.
They rode the quadrupeds through the pas-
sage and into the billiard-room, driving the
players out with stockwhips, to the accom-
paniment of ear-splitting yells. They
carried the forms out, and had hurdle races
in the street. They ornamented the tree-
guards in front with bedroom furnishings in
the small hours of the morning. They raided
the pantry and kitchen and dragged the
girls out to dance. Now and again they
created a sensation by wrecking the furni-
ture and smashing the bottles on the shelves.
Mr. Grum looked on helplessly. Afterwards,
when those worthies got home and recovered
their sanity, they sent for the bill, which
they promptly paid by cheque. One bill, for
damages alone —according to Jerry’s assess-
ment —amounted to £175. He got a new
piano out of that. The old one. accounted
as smashed beyond repair, he sold to the
blacksmith.
If Jim. the rouseabout, or Sam, the char-
coal-burner. started to make merry in the
same way as the Squattocracy he was
promptly run in. The way Jerry Grum
showed his authority on such occasions, and
his determination to maintain an orderly
house, was a sharp lesson to everybody who
hadn’t plenty of money.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
Moina.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
GREEN meadows sprinkled with new
rain,
In laughing weather.
Long, freckled hill-necks purple with the
stain
Of bloomy heather;
A war-pipe to the eagle's carrick screaming,
Keen, sloping lances in the dark glen gleam-
ing.
And far away
The white-blown sails of death like lilies
set
On the blue bay.
Grey ghosts shall wail with ache of long
regret
Ere droop of day.
Iler woman throat was white as milk,
. Her lips were red,
Her hair a cloud of burning Asian silk
About her head ;
The still, blue wonder in her dark eyes
sleeping.
Had all the swords of all the kings in keep-
ing ;
The battle dew
Made redder the red moss for love of her.
And cold glens knew
The yellow mounds beneath the twisted fir
Where no grass grew.
A herald came across the sea,
His speech was bold,
Athwart his shoulders, blowing free,
A scarf of gold.
His word of Oscar came: “Give me thy
daughter,
The edges of our swords are keen for
slaughter.”
The King laughed low:
“Shall love of Moina teach all men to die?
Bid Oscar know
The kings of Crona shall not shrink or fly
When war-pipes blow.”
White sails of death came up the bay
For iuoina’s smile.
Tall spearmen gathered for the hot, red fray
From glen and isle.
O woman by the King’s stone gateway
dreaming.
With all your hair of joy about you stream-
ing.
Your mouth is sweet;
There is a low, faint laughter in your breath
To hear the feet
Of marching men. who move strong-eyed to
death
Where grey swords meet.
O woman tall, your heart is wild
With pride of fame;
1 nursed you on my breast, the fairest child
Of Crona’s name.
I watched you in the King’s long meadow
playing,
I kept with love your little feet from stray-
ing—
Now strong men die,
And arrows, fietched with pain, must learn
to hiss
Against the sky.
Because a lord of shields desires the kiss
That you deny.
My eyes are old. my hair is thin—
I saw her stand
Whose perfect, beauty made a bloody sin
In all the land.
A mist of blood about my heart came steal-
ing.
I saw the kings of battle spent and reeling
For her white sake,
The clotted pools upon the trampled ground
Where strong spears brake.
I heard the keening o’er the battle mound
Bitterly wake.
Beneath my ragged apron blue
A death was hid ;
The doom to which my soul was born I
knew....
My old hand slid
To where my brown, horn-hafted dirk was
sleeping
That held the souls of Crona’s men in keep-
ing.
The war pipes blew —
Three times I stabbed her breast that was
so white:
The fine blood drew;
Outgushed the life that was a world’s
delight
In all men’s view.
Green meadows sprinkled with new rain
In sobbing weather.
The freckled hills are purple with the stain
Of misty heather;
The women gather softly to the weeping:
Moina of love and death lies coldly sleeping ;
The stern kings stand
Leaning in trouble on their idle spears.
One crooked hand
Grasping a reeking knife has filled with
tears
A warless land.
x.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


West i nghouse - Cross
FOUR-CYCLE
Marine Oil Engines
f ; c *
. ..
.. . for .. .
Fishing Boats,
Cargo Vessels,
Large Auxiliaries,
Barges, etc.,
. . . are . . .
Simply Constructed,
Effectively Controlled,
and Extremely Flexible
in Speed and Power.
BUILT IN SIZES FROM
7 to 120 H.P.
Write for Particulars to
The Westiaghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents: Holme® & Church, Brisbane. (jQflCOfd West, N. S. WsISS
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike. Wellington. |3
Have You Considered
BOUNDER RESAWS?
They are a much better proposition
than a Band Itesaw. The upkeep is
considerably less, and the saw-kerf is
smaller, combined with more finished
cutting.
Universally Used in Europe in
Preference to a Band Resaw.
Feed up to 150 ft. per minute.
Ask our Bolinder expert to call on
you with a view of explaining more
fully the advantages of these Machines.
The Austral Engineering Supply Go. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Brisbane: GORDON FASNE LTD. Melbourne: NOYES BROS. LTD.
'x.-mW/./-
JLime -fruit Juice.
Brings to your lips the juice
of the lime fruit.
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing.
The children love .it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Laree supplies have been lately shipped
from London.
MOOTSERRAT is gold by all leading Storekeepers
Remington
.44 calibre re-
peating rifles are
chapibered for
Rem. .44 cartridges
and .44 WCF. Hun-
ters all over the world
have found them effective
and efficient. These rifles have \ x
many mechanical advantages. The
Slide Action permits successive shots
to be fired without taking the rifle from
the shoulder. There is no exposed ham-
mer to catch on clothing, tree branches or
fences, the entire mechanism being encased in
a solid breech of steel. The only opening is at the
side where the empty cartridges are ejected.
In order to appreciate its remarkable handling qualities, its value
and superiority, the rifle must be actually taken down, assembled,
thrown to the shoulder and fired. Write for interesting .44 Calibre
booklet, postpaid upon request.
MORE rifles of .44 calibre are in use than of
any other calibre, excepting only the .22.
The .44 calibre, the standby of the pioneer
and early settler, has been a universal favorite as
an offensive and defensive weapon. Owing to
enormous production the cartridge is the low-
est-priced one made, proportionate to its
range and calibre. You can use a .44
rifle freely at exceedingly small cost.
Before you buy, be sure to see a
Remington .44. It has many exclu-
sive features that will delight
you. The best way to appre-
ciate it is to see the arm at
your dealer’s shop. If he
does not have one in
stock, send us his
name. We will
forward you in-
formation by
return of
post.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co., New York and London
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d.
IT IS REALLY NECESSARY
for everybody to undergo a periodical cleansing of the bodily
system in order that all impurities may be eliminated and
sluggish organs assisted to perform their work in a satisfactory
manner. As a remedy with gently aperient and tonic properties,
Beecham’s Pills are unequalled for this purpose. There is
no remedy “just as good” and certainly nothing better
TO TAKE
than this old and well-tried medicine which is wholly free from,
any harmful drug, and prepared from the purest vegetable
ingredients of great curative value. As it exerts a most bene-
ficial influence upon the stomach, liver, kidneys and bowels.
Most of the disorders due to derangement of the digestive
system speedily disappear after a course of
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price l\l\ (56 pills ) & 2/9 (168 pills).
,Do You Long for a Full Moustache?
make the most of
their appearance
should develop a
smart moustache.
CAPILLARINE
is a sure moustache-producer. It never fails to give good results. Not a quack,
but a reh“ preparation which has been 30 years on the market. Prove its
merit, as hundreds have done. »
GET A JAR TO-DAY —10/6 JAR, post free.
The C & A Moustache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
' 2/0.'3/6, 5/6 each Post Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG (SAITREN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
Dinnefqrd’s^
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
agents for
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dogs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated "Waters and Cordials.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF?
"V/OU begin to
* look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyen’s
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
Do You Need Money?
If so, write us and we will tell you how
you can make from
£5 to £lO per Week
We are manufacturers of the famous
“Davis” perfumes, soaps and toilet arti-
DIAMOND RAZOR CO FULLY WARRANT.O
PRICE *5.00
iIEYTRA HOLLOW GROUHfI
cles, and we
need repre-
sentatives in
every com-
munity.
W e illus-
trate one of
our many
combination
boxes —very
popular sell-
ers. You
can make big
money by
selling these
boxes.
If you want
to establish a
business of
your own without investing much money,
where you can earn a good living and
besides accumulate a substantial bank account,
write us today and we will tell you how.
E. M. DAVIS SOAP COMPANY
Dept. EA-10, 222 N. Desplaines St., Chicago, U. S. A.
MALTED
MILK
Next time you feel
fagged, try a glass of
Horlick's Malted
Milk. You will feel
the difference almost
at once. You will
note a speedy accele-
ration of energy.
Horlick's rapidly en-
dows the system with
vim, vigour and
vitality.
Ask for Horlick's at
the Soda Fountain.
Sample will be sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps
to Hutchinson & Co.,
26, Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
IK**- 4 *
a
I&SKSfc.


THE “ TRIUMPHATOR ”
'/?
IJMTSi
CALCULATING MACHINE
is the greatest TIME-SAVING, BRAIN-SAVING
and MONEY-SAVING device that has ever been
introduced to the Office World.
The only machine that always shows you the
actual figures you are working with.
Illustrated Catalogue on application.
A. P. Greenfield 8 Co. Ltd.
189 George St.,
BRISBANE.
COLDS
*
WM
HOT
WITH
Lemon
AX
BEDTIME
iff®
VJO
»»')i*
v
Hardie’s Genuine
Used In place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID 8 ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES NARPIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
and at Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
The
Importance
of
Efficient
Insulation!
The importance of efficient insulation, in many cases, is not realised. Great
care is shown in the selection of a steam plant to ensure the greatest economy,
yet the insulation which is of equal importance is in many cases partly neg-
lected. If you strive to make a saving in the steam consumption of your
engine, why not make certain that it is not wasted again through faulty in-
sulation? The claims we make as to the exceptional efficiency of Newall’s
Coverings are fully borne out by actual test, and, further, by the enormous
sales, including repeat orders, and we do not know of a single instance where
any other covering has been used once Newall’s have been tried.
The Ultimo and White Bay Power Houses are insulated throughout with
Newall’s Coverings, and this material has also been adopted exclusively by the
N.S.W. and Victorian Governments. These are facts which will tend to fur-
ther prove our claims. The innumerable advantages of this material over all
other forms of lagging are described in interesting booklet, which we will be
pleased to mail you along with samples.
NEW ALL'S
MAGNESIA SECTIONAL
STEAM PIPE & BOILER
COVERINGS.
J. WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR LTD.,
Street, Sydney; Melbourne, Brisbane,
i
iton, N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Fluming,
Patent “Nelyambo” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, ForgingSt
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work „
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
*s-
1 - ■
Consider
Proposition
The Mattison Pneumatic Belt Sander
Will Sand Any tSHape in Any Form.
Even in the very small factory it can be quickly appreciated when you realise the many
ways it can be “rigged” up for sanding small, irregular-shaped work.
Table Legs, Chair Legs, Drawer Fronts, Shelves, Toilet Frames, Chair Seats and Backs,
O.G. Mouldings are among the numerous patterns that can be successfully handled on the
Mattison, and it pays for itself in a few weeks with its CAPACITY, HIGHER GRADE OF
WORK AND ACCURATE SANDING.
Study its possible usefulness to your plant, and write us for full specification
and price.
SOLE AGENTS
f ';.,3
: v^il
t timm.
■ ■■4
LACY CO. LTD.
PARKE
Engineers (EL Machinery Merchants,.
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
The ALBANY Patent Water-sealed Rotary Pump.
PATENTED IN ALL COUNTRIES.
The most important feature of these pumps is the fact that slip and leakage have been reduced to a minimum by the introduction of grooves cut
along the faces and edges of the teeth, so that, in rotating, a body of water lodges in the grooves, forming an absolute, sealed, water-tight joint or
cushion between the casing and rotating rollers, thereby producing an ellicient vacuum.
The position of the pump has become assured wherever electrically-driven pumps are required; and in the improved type all wear is eliminated
from the internal members by the introduction of steel spur wheels, fltte d in a suitable gear box outside the pump cover—and by means of which
the whole of the Power is Transmitted.
NO SKILLED MECHANIC REQUIRED. NO VALVES REQUIRED.
Suitable for boiler feed, deep wells, hot liquids, boiling soap, oil, tar, crude petroleum, fats, and other liquids of high gravity, also gas exhausters.
The smaller sizes are specially adapted for forced lubrication.
All Sizes from 1 to 6 inches Stocked.
Sole
Agents—
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Sydney & Melbourne.
