

MELLOWED BY AGE
R. G. WATKINS & GO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’' and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in ail parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
M-5 W- MONT DE PIETE D&ICg L$
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And at Telephone: No. 225 Central.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 Qeorge Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
!ll3j
188
0
on
m
o_Si
Hi
a
o._.
a 3
t\m
lIBH
BBS?
"j
;c _J
»
III:
.«!□!■:
m.M
HOBART.
3Hfi
[jadlegs Orient ftotel.
RICHARDSON’S
WINE and
SPIRIT STORES,
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
BOTTLE, CASE or GALLON at Wholesale Price.
p
lON
LEATHER BELTING
Guarantied
J. C. Ludowici & Son f Ld.
ll7 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
NTTHMO
umumU
O 3
CO
ll>ppjpls
UJ
CHUBBS
SPRINGLESS
LOCKS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
organs.
rmTTOlIH
u
SDF
F or INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
PALMER CORD
are specially constructed to ensure Long (Service.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
SD
FSD
Royal
Dutch
Sffi
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERYWAY.
Malth
are the roofs being used on a very large proportion of the beautiful homes of
America. The moneyed American wants the best—his architect gives him White
Malthoid. He knows it will outlast all other roofings and never give any trouble.
Might we send you booklets and samples ?
HIP
3 1&:
The Paraffine Paint Co.
D. S. EVANS,
Australasian Representative,
Challis House, Sydney
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
B.L
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
“QUEEN OF STATES” BACON and HAMS.
X QUEENSLAND CO-OP. BACON CO., LTD., BRISBANE.
H ELI DON SPA
The efficacy of HELIDON SPA lies in its
solvent power and cleansing properties.
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
Phillip St., Sydney, and
The Bulletin
Vol. 35.—N0. 1783.]
[Thursday, April 16, 1914.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW TECHNICALS.
(Postages shown
in 'narp.nt.hpsv* \
Hopkins’ Modern Farm Buildings. Ulus. 10/6. (6d.)
Brown’s Irrigation. Ulus. 19/-. (4d.)
Newell and Murphy’s Irrigation Engineering. Illus.
15/-. ( 5d.)
Richards’ Compressed Air Practice. 15/-. (5d.)
Cl< (Bd S ) T ° P ° sraphical Surveying, 2nd Edition. 9/.
Marchant’s Wireless Telegraphy. Ulus. 6/- (3d.)
Rage’s Modern Gasoline Automobile, illus., 12/6 (7d ).
O’Connor’s Petrol Air Gas. Illus. 1/9. (2d.)
GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO., PROPTY, LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
For Coughs! Colds! Influenza! let the buyer bewere,
JUj
K u c.hudson!
POST FREE ON RECEIPT
OF STAMPS,
The large sale for “EUMENTHOL JU-
JUBES” has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of men-
thol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buving to be sure and get
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES. You
may be asked to buy other jujubes,' and be
told they are “just as good” as Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes. This proves that these
imitations and substitutes have no reputa-
tion of their own, and can only be sold on the
good repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS,
or from the Manufacturers—
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY. < 2
The Red Page
The Restoration Drama
ail! m n^ al w r ’ A n The t Go J ned » °f Manners
« W. Dymock, bydney), gives us
ike first historical view of the rise and fall
C0 “ 1C dra “ atis ts of the Restoration,
therein, continually, he has to contra-
st A iha a n lay ‘ A e n< l thereupon we have to
SS f the h . oaor of being the first Wowser
back from Albert the Wowser to Macaulay ;
her eV AnH h V S bUt an ? cho of Jerem y Col-
w d ere mu T st have been Wowsers
Ztf w° re him ---- Ia fact, historically the
first Wowser was Jehovah, who objected
rather forcibly to Eve eating apples on Sun-
fr^i aCaUIa K,- JU , <ised tlle Res toration drama
from an ethical view-point. Of course, the
comic dramatists were extremely rude.
Macaulay stigmatised them as immoral. “His
if A s a -? rtan t conclusion about Congreve
and \\ ycberley was that their pl-ays were
m^Hrii oU ia!n UP ° n the mr,ral values of the
middie lhth century.” And since Jeremy
Collier discovered that the Restoration
dramatists were profane, wicked and sub-
versive of good manners, nearly every
printed opinion leaves the impression that
these writers have been measured by stan-
understood WoUld neither have respected nor
Palmer’s volume aims t giving the con-
demned a trial by a jury of their contempo-
thiT He finds > historically,
"Sf W e Pnghsh comedy of manners began
G , eol 'ge Etherege, was improved by
Wycherley, rose to perfection in Congreve
declined by easy stages with Vanbrough and
1 aiquhar, and was finally extinguished in
fcheridan and Goldsmith. It is with the
first five dramatists that he deals.
LJntd Jeremy Collier, in his Short Victo
ri ~e , *ro fane ness and Immorality of the
English Stage, put the moral acid upon the
Kestoration drama, nobody had thought of
xt from the Wowser viewpoint.
Neither Pepys nor Evelyn, though they
thought the Court shocking, considered the
theatre profane. After the invention of the
moral test, the drama was advised to adopt
the neck-to-knee costume. Macaulay added
ngfeaves. Palmer’s contention is that the
nation has consistently misjudged the comic
dramatists owing to an inflamed “Puritan
nervous system,” whereas our criterion of
judgment should be “What sort of men were
they in the face of their period?” We must
consider them solely from a contemporary
moral standpoint. J
First we must entirely be rid of the idea
that the comic dramatists, were susceptible
to the sentiments proper to a well-conducted
monogamous society. But in reading the
plays two important concessions must be
made to a modern reader. Every one of
these plays contains words which have long
since disappeared from ordinary conversa-
tion, though in their time such words were
commonplaces of conversation. And the
subject is usually unpleasant, as it is fre-
quently unpleasant in Shakespeare, “but,
once encountered, it need not again be men-
turned. Our point of view has merely
changed ; we can’t jest any more about sex-
ual disease. And the indecency is nowhere
sensuous—until the Restoration drama began
to decline. “The comic possibilities of
adultery are exploited to-day as thoroughly
as in the time of Wycherley; but social
hypocrisy has hitherto steadily insisted that
physical facts shall as far as possible be
slurred.”
The complete answer to Jeremy Wowser
Collier is: “The comic drama of the Resto-
ration rested upon a comic treatment of sex.
It depended for its effect upon the elimina-
tion of passion. Comic treatment is treat-
ment in a dry light. The heart of the mat-
ter lies in the epigram of Walpole that life
is a comedy to the man who thinks, a tragedy
to the. man who feels To take an ex-
treme instance, it is perfectly true that rape
and adultery are part of the action of the
majority of the plays of our comic drama-
tists. But, the treatment being purely
comic, these actions cease to be morally
significant. The sexual emotion of the spec-
tator is not involved English comedy,
after Jeremy Collier, drooped, withered and
passed finally away precisely in the propor-
tion that the ‘amorous, soft, passionate,
luscious saying’ persistently tended to in-
trude.”
The modern farce, musical play, music-
hall or revue is much more indecent than
the Restoration drama, simply because it is
so cleverly meant to be.
Collier said, in effect, “Art for morality’s
sake,” and Congreve accepted the precept.
Without cackling about “rrt for art’s sake”
—as if art could be for anything but its own
sake—-we may accept Palmer’s definition of
the aim of the artist: “His impulse is not
the impulse of a moralist to improve the
worldit is the impulse of an artist to ex-
press it.... Art is not primarily concerned
with morality, but morality is the stuff of
the poet’s art Morality is his subject,
though it is not his object... .The critics of
Collier’s generation, and incompetent critics
of every generation, invariably confuse
the subject with the object—worse, they
mistake the subject of a picture or a poem
for the work itself.”
The critical pages of John Palmer form a
valuable commentary on the chief figures
and the chief works in a shining period in
English dramatic literature. The historical
perspective is well sustained, and the figures
emerge from their niches with a fine sugges-
tion of life.
•
The latest issues of Constable’s shilling
reprints include Mary Johnston’s By Order
of the Company and The Old Dominion, and
R. W. Chambers’ delightful In the Quarter.
The firm of Allcock and Sweetland, advertising
experts, have taken an effective way of proving their
printing capabilities. The Sphinx! “a magazine for
business men who appreciate a higher standard in
advertising,” is a sumptuous production, a trium-
phant proof that good printing is being done in
Australia.
Epigrams from the Greek
HOLY GROUND.
What time the Graces sought for hallowed
ground,
To build a fane that age could not impair,
The soul of Aristophanes they found
And set it there,
—Plato.
ILL-OMENED. .
Fair may the voyage prove, hut if like me
Driven by a gale thou breach the port of
Doom,
Blame him, but not the inhospitable sea,
Who dares to loose his moorings from a
tomb.
—Leonidas.
A DEAD HERDSMAN.
The cattle wandered at eventide
Down to the byre from the mountain side,
The clinging flakes were on horn and hide
For the drifting snow was deep.
Ah for the herdsman ! slumbers he,
Lying so still on the stricken treef
Ay——and long shall his slumber be
Whom the thunder lulls to sleep.
—Diotimus.
FOR A COPY OF THEOCRITUS.
The Muses of Bucolic song were scattered
far of old,
But now they are a single flock within a
single fold.
- —Artemidorus.
AN OFFERING.
Menoctas' quiver, with his bow,
Serapis, at thy feet doth lie.
No shafts'are here —the stricken foe
Of lies peris shall tell thee why.
—Callimachus.
DROWNED IN HARBOR.
Every sea is the sea; and the Cyclades are
not to blame,
Vainly hath llelle's race, and the Needles
their evil fame-
These 1 escaped unscathed, and I deemed
that my peril was past,
For in Scarplie's haven I lay, but there she
whelmed me at last.
Pray for a safe return who will, but take
warning from me,
Lo, I cry from my grave, “The sea shall be
ever the sea.”
—Antipater of Sidon.
THE EPITAPH—AND THE READER.
My name and country were no matter
what!
Noble my race who cares though it were
not?
The fame I won in life....is all forgot!
Now here I lie... .and no one cares a jot!
—Paul.
TPIE FLIGHT OF TIME.
If glad thy mind,
Life thou shalt find
Too brief.
One single night
Is infinite
To grief.
—Lucian.
A LIFE HISTORY.
Time was I was not: I began to be,
I was, and am not ; that's the end of me;
lie lies that doth a fuller knoicledge feign,
For I, that am not, shall not be again.
-‘—Anonymous.
ON A LITTLE CHILD.
O Hades, death's inexorable king.
Wilt never turn aside from plundering?
Now is Callaeschrus of liis life bereft.
And what avails to know the child shall be
A plaything in thy halls, Persephone,
When sorrow broods above the home he
left?
—Anonymous.
TO A MISER.
You count your gold with greedy sest,
Your growing gains you tell,
Forgetting time breeds interest,
But hoary hairs as well.
Nor wine nor perfumes gladden you,
No garland crowns your head,
Love's dainty joys you never knew —
And soon you will be dead:
And then the hoarded treasures there,
Poor wretch, must you forsake;
One single coin for Charon's fare
Is all that you shall take.
—Antiphanes.
A LAWSUIT.
Deaf were the plaintiff and defendant, too,
The judge who heard the cause was deafer
still,
So to the plaint that five months' rent was
due
Defendant said, “At night I work the
mill.”
And judgment ran, “Why strive with one
another?
Both must support her; isn't she your
Mothert"
—Nicarchus.
ON THE STATUE OF A WOUNDED
FAUN.
Methinks that Dionysus heard
The wounded satyr moan
And so the god< to pity stirred)
Transformed him into stone.
But still hts pangs he cannot bear,
The miracle was vain;
l Behold him in the marble there,
Poor faun, he cries for pain!
—Leontius.
ON A NAMELESS GRAVE.
O sailor, ask not whose the tomb may be,
But Fortune grant to you a kindlier sea.
—Anonymous.
ON DIONYSIUS OF TARSUS.
For sixty years I bore an evil lot:
No child I had —and would my sire had not.
—Anonymous.
From Greek Love Songs and Epigrams,
from the Anthology, first and second series,
translated by J. A. Pott (Kegan Paul;
Is. 9d. each volume).
It is obvious that the Rhymballade needs
education. So much poetic promise must
not be allowed to go to waste. The rhym-
bellers of Australia, who have done so much
for the mother, are requested to take her
infant in hand. A guinea will be awarded
to the rhymballadist who forwards the
neatest rhymballade to this page, entries clos-
ing on May 30.
Making our own definition, we stipulate
that a rhymballade, following the model of
the ballade, must consist of three stanzas of
eight lines, followed by a verse of four lines
known as the envoy, each of the stanzas anc
the envoy closing with the same refrain
The same set of rimes, the sequence being
A B, A. B, B, 0, B, C, in the same order
they occupy in the first stanza, must repeat
throughout the whole of its verses, the se-
quence for the envoy being B, 0, B, C. No
word once used as a rime must be used again
for that purpose. Bach stanza and the envoy
must close with the unaltered refrain. (A
clever variation in the envoy refrain may
perhaps be pardoned.) Thus only three
rimes are allowed for the whole of the
rhymballade. Counsels of perfection sug-
gest that the sense of the refrain must
be supreme throughout the rhymballade: it
must come in without strain as the natural
close of each stanza and of the envoy. And
the sense of the rhymballade should not be
split into two verses of four lines in each
stanza. These rules also apply to the bal-
lade ; but the rhymballade has further techni-
calities. Each stanza and the envoy must
begin with a pun upon the last syllable or
syllables of the refrain, and each pun must
be different. Thus the rhymballadist is con-
fronted with the necessity of choosing four
words beginning with the same sound which
he must work in without the sense of effort
in a poem complete in itself —and that same
sound must close his refrain. R. G. Hender-
son’s fine rhymballade has not exhausted—
nor was it meant to exhaust —the possibili-
ties of this latest-born Australian verse-form.
Five of Hewlett’s finest novels, including
Little Novels of Italy and Richard Yea-and-
Nay, are now to be got in Macmillan’s
admirable sevenpenny editions.
E. Backhouse and J. O. P. Bland, autho
of that brilliant pageant of China, Chi
under the Empress Dowager, repeat the
success with Annals and Memoirs of
Court of Peking (Heinemann, 165.). Th
work is invaluable to an understanding o:
China, since it presents a faithful pictu
cf life at the Court of Peking from t
middle of the 16th century down to the pas
ing of the Manchus and the establishment
the present disorderly Republic. No chron
logical record is attempted; the atmosphe
of the Court is more truthfully reproducec
by this series of the most remarkable even
of Chinese history, taken directly from tl
narratives of Chinese writers, and presentee
without the intrusion of European bias. Tl
authors hope that the reader “can, and wi
approach this study of Eastern life, describee
by Orientals, in the same spirit of detac
ment, with the same recognition of fund
mental humanities and moralities, as tha
with which we approach the brutal franknes
of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel
things written for our learning... .We hav
endeavored to steer a middle course betwee
the Scylla of the Chinese chroniclers’ bruta
realism and the Charybdis of our conveu
tional and often prurient reticences.” Thes
three centuries of China’s history serve bu:
to provfe that the slow course of her evolu
tion cannot be dramatically disturbed; ant
that republicanism is not, for generation
China’s role. But the,book will not be reat
for its moral, but for its delightful glimpse
into the unchanging Chinese soul, its nai'v
account of horrors and its inhuman humo
Dip anywhere into these annals, even up t
the time of the fall of the Manchus, and yo
will find yourself back in the palace of Nero
or supping, rather diffidently, with the Boi
gias. . '
W. B. Maxwell, author of The Devil
Garden, frankly acknowledges a case o:
plagiarism. A correspondent in Th
Atiiknasum had pointed out the resemblanc
in plot between that novel and Zola’s Bet
Humaine. The situation in both books i
the same; but Maxwell justly nleads tha
the murder, by a husband, of -the man wh
had dishonored his wife is “a life-situation
belonging to the realm of ordinary facts
newspaper reports, common talk,” and tha
it had probably been used in many othe
books. The genesis of Maxwell's book i
explained, giving us an interesting light or
his methods. “For a long time I had i
jotted down in my notes as the material oi
a novel, that was to be the study of
man’s life after an undiscovered crime. Th
essential matter was that the man was to
be punished by conscience, to be brought to
expiation by internal forces, although free
from the external peril of the law. I re
turned to my note again and again, bu
could never make anything of it until, two
years hgo, it occurred to me that the logica
working-out would be to screw the murderei
round into the position of the man he hac
killed, and thus deprive him of the sense o;
justification of the deed which had hitherto
upheld him.” But how did the first jotting
down. of the situation come? Maxwell ad
mits it must have been an unconscious mem
ory of Zola’s work, which he had read more
than once.. Further similarities in the work-
ing out of this idea were “doubtless causec
by that mocking voice of memory which an-
nounces itself as imagination, which habitu-
ally simulates the hot, eager accents of an
inspired prompting, and which the mosl
original waiters have had reason to dreac
like the very devil.” But no one can say
that The Devil's Garden is the same book
as La Bete Humaine, or that, beyond the
situation, it. bears the slighest resemblance to
it. Any writer has the right, as Shakespeare
had the right, to take any situation, no mat-
ter. how often before utilised by other
writers, and make it his own. Anyhow,
there are only 19 situations in life.
There is a popular class of pseudo-critics
writing for the British dailies and weeklies:
this class gossips cheerfully about literature,
supplies conlmonplace anecdotes about popu-
lar authors, but never bores its public by
creative criticism. One of the most popu-
lar is W. Robertson Nicholl. who contri-
butes drivel to The British Weekly under
the title of “The Correspondence of Claudius
Clear,” and is regarded, by his own public,
as an authority upon literature. From his
gentlemanly contributions he has selected a
number under the title, A Bookman's Letters
(Ilodder and Stoughton, per Angus and Rob-
ertson). He supplies innocuous memories
of Meredith, discourses heavily upon dull
authors, raises questions like' “Why did
Shakespeare Retire to Stratford on-Avon?”
and - “Was Thackeray a Cynic?” without
answering them, solemnly tells us nothing of
“The Art of the Reviewer,” and supplies
an index, The book is nicely printed.
“1-em rule” is annoyed for a column and a
half because The Sheffield Independent,
The Dundee Advertiser and The Book-
man have persuaded him to buy a rotten six-
penny novel published in England.' Well,
why buy sixpenny novels published in Eng-
land when you can have good Australian
novels for a shilling, and —without any
modesty we say it—why go to The Shef-
field Independent, The Dundee Adver-
tiser and The Bookman for your literary
criticism?
The Rhymballade
It is evident that the Australian climate
is suiting the imported rymbel; for already
the freakish thing has given birth to a big
baby. She has decided to call her infant
“Rhymballade.” It. G. Henderson, who at-
tended the case, reports that both are doing
well, and that the baby, while strikingly
resembling her mother about the key-word,
shows a very close likeness to her French
father, M. Ballade, about her rimes and her
physical structure. He forwards a photo-
graph of the child.
A RHYMBALLADE.
Billowed in laces, pink and white,
Only nine pounds, yet he needs a name!
And imperious uncles and aunts would blight
His joyous youth by their choice of the same,
For each of them proffers a diverse claim —
Weird appellations of horrory-and still,
Since I, 100, have a hand in the game.
I think, in the end, he’ll be plain Bill:
Bilious Sarah, the bombazine fright,
And Maud, an early-Victorian dame,
For euphonious Percy their, votes unite.
He was primeval Maud’s first flame,
And Sarah opines that wealth and fame
Are reserved for such genteel names. My
will
Is as firmly fixed as my metre’s lame.
I think, in the end, he’ll be plain Bill.
“Billets and dollars ad infinit,
If you name him from me,” said one who
came
From a Potts Point palace. But no! not
quite!
The name’s Isaiah! Now, do you blame
My reluctant heart and shivering frame?
Let the lad work his own way up hill,
Learn on his own the shy dollars to tame —
I think, in the end, he’ll be plain Bill.
Envoy.
Billions of curses strike with shame
The shade who invented “ Bobadil,”
That load 1 bear! By my halidame,
I think, in the end, he’ll be plain Bill!
R. G. HENDEESON.


V
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FOR FASHION AND ECONOMY
WeM/MMoram
&
0735
33/G
24/6
3030
/GOG
27/6
No. 898. Full Length Black Cloth Coat, fancy back, large round Collar of Self, Revere
faced Black Satin and finished Silk Military Braid 24/6
Same style, No. 496, rough Black Cheviot Serge,, plain Self Revers, strap at back 23/6
Or same material, No. 1342 33/6
Or plain Black Cloth, No. 6441 29/6
No. 9735.—Serviceable Seven-eighth Length Coat, of soft Diagonal Tweed, new inlet
back, circular Collar and fancy Revers piped Velvet, finished Braid and Buttons, in Tan, Saxe
or Grey shades 24/6
Same design, No. 109, warm, reversible Blanket Tweed, seven-eighth length, Grey or Heather
Mixture 32/6
Or in striped Blanket Tweed, No. 1 3051, rich Brown or Grey shades 34/6
No. 3058. Warm, Soft Blanket Tweed Coat, seven-eighth length, wide strap effect
across back, finished pipings and buttons, new square Collar, double-breasted fronts fastening
high at neck, in Tan, Brown, Saxe, Light or Dark Grey shades 27/6
No. 2974. Dressy Full Length Coat, Of Navy Cheviot Serge, straight-cut back, new
inset Sleeves with deep Cuffs, scalloped Collar and cross-over fronts richly embossed.... 33/6
No. 1606. Well Cut Full Length Coat, Of Navy Vicuna Cloth, new, straight-cut back,.
large Collar finished rows of Self stitching, Revers trimmed piped buttonholes and buttons to
tone 21/-
Similar style, No. 1313, rough Navy Blanket Cloth, Collar and Revers of Black Cloth and contrast
Satin pipings 2.1/-
Our Winter
Fashion
Portfolio
is an authorita-
tive guide to the
prevailing
modes. Write
for a copy, post
free on request.
It will interest
you.
of Eleoamcb
and Eco/NOMY.
AT
' ,
21659
2436
21623
21655
99/6
2 If, 44
fra*' 24644
97/6
79/6
No 21655. Well-tailored Coat and Skirt, in fine Navy or Black Suiting Serge, Collar
and Cuffs are edged with Black and White Block Stripe Silk.; finished fancy square 'bone
buttons, in White with Black edge. The back is relieved with new flap ends from waist as
inset design; smartly-cut Skirt, slightly draped at side, and finished satin b0w.... 9J/6
No 2436.— Face Cloth Coat and Skirt, with fine White Pencil Stripe, Collar, Cuffs and
Vest effect of bullion Brochfi. The Coat is made Magyar style with f sleeves, folded Silk belt
with stole ends at front; smartly-cut Skirt, with shaped lap seams open at foot. In Mole shade
only * 79 / 6
No 21644. Tailor-made Coat and Skirt, j n Navy Suiting, Collar of the new Pan Velour
’Brocade; has Self folds on sleeves and down centre back, finished Silk braid ends and bone
buttons. Skirt has folds and braid ends to match •> 89/6
No 21659. Smartly Cut Costume, in fine Black Coating Serge, has Black Satin Collar
’finely braided in Black and Gold, finished Silk cord tassel ends and bone buttons; high-waisted
Skirt, with shaped lapped seams 97/6
No 21623. Very Dressy Tailored Costume, in fine Suiting Serge, Coat has v est effect
"of Cream fine Cloth, braided in Black, finished Satin tie with fringed ends, and is slightly eased
into shape piece at waist; fancy bone buttons with White centres. Skirt has lap seams with
buttons and buttonhole effect at foot 99/6
AjggW Select WinferCoais
1
fS'J
505
43
3T/6
3t/(t
43/C
l'J/6
No. 16. Smart Seven-eighth Length Coat, Of Black Vicuna Cloth, straight-cut back, torge
Collar and Revers faced Silk and trimmed Black Cable Braid 37/6
Similar style, No. 2998, Collar edged Bengaline Silk 33/6
Also same design, No. 1607, Black Cloth Coat, Collar and Revers of Self, edged double rows of
Silk Braid 29/6
No. A 1383. Navy Vicuna Cloth Coat, seven-eighth length, double Collar and Revers effec-
tively trimmed Black Silk Military Braid, fastening to side with large Frog Ornament.. 18/6
Similar style, No. 1555, in Navy Cheviot Serge, trimmed Braid 17/6
No. 505. —Model Full Length Coat, of Corduroy Velour Cloth, stylish tube back and jn6et
Sleeves, large Collar and double Revers piped Suede Velvet to tone, in soft shades of Tan, Mole,
Purple and Brown 42/ -
No. 759. — Becoming Coat, of soft Blanket, Fleece, smart back with cross-cut diagonal fold
at foot and welted seams, circular Collar and long Revers of Self, finished Buttons, in shades- of
Golden Brown, Purple, Mole and Dark Brown 29'/ 6
No. 1437. Useful Travelling Coat, of Diagonal Blanket Tweed, Raglan sleeve, straight-out
back, Coat Collar of Suede Cloth to tone, Revers of Self, in smart shades of Grey, Saxe, Tan,
Rose, Mole 27/6
Same design, No. 1523, in Grey, Navy, Light and Dark Brown, Diagonal Blanket Tweed.. 29/6
Our
Illustrated
Price Lists
place the im-
mense resources
of the New
Palace Empor=
ium at the com=
mand of every-
one. Write for
copies, post free
anywhere.
'ostunie- af mnum mukl/hkoj
e
er
K
i tW, .
V
H
t mm
VJUi
, i
t
m
v:
i . 2904
dJ - »ne
MO4
32/(5
2//09
>25022
'-sf
29/6
2r/6
3S©. 21109.— Smart Coat and Skirt Costume, of Navy Cheviot Serge; coat is ummcu,
iffiinmed Black Satin on front of Collar; Four-piece Skirt, finished Buttons 29/G
JSfou 2404. New Design, in smart Navy Cheviot Serge; facings of Lime, Tan or Grey Face
Cloth give stylish contrasting effect 32/6
TU<o 21193. Stvlish Coat and Skirt, Of Rough Cheviot Serge; unlined Coat, Black Satin
Collar, Silk Braid loop buttons; Navy or Black 29/6
21104. Fashionable Coat and Skirt, in Navy Cheviot; Coat has Black Satin Collar,
and buttons close to neck; Four-piece Skirt 27 /o
No. 25022. Coat and Skirt Costume, Of Black or Navy Amazon Cloth, with fine White
"stripe semi-fitting Coat, with Belt at back; Four-piece Skirt finished with strappings and Buttons
, to correspond •. 27/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Empori'am.
Brickfield Hill,
.SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Ripih and Pistol
CARTRIDGES
Winchester Cartridges are
made in all calibers for all
kinds of rifles, revolvers and
pistols. They are loaded with
smokeless and black powder
and various kinds of bullets.
From the tiny .22 to the big
.50 caliber they shoot uniformly
and accurately. They are
always effective for small
game, big game, dangerous
game, target practice or pro-
tection. Winchester Car-
tridges may cost a few cents
more over the counter, but
any difference in price is
more than made up by their
s
] superior quality and general
reliability. Insist upon having
Winchester make, and
LOOK FOR THE
ON THE BOX.
KNOttTHt
WRUMVOI
YOUR beard is not always the same.
That fact gives tremendous import-
ance to the positive adjustment fea-
ture —peculiar to the Gillette Safety
Razor.
No razor without positive adjust-
ment can give uniform service—and
no safety razor has a positive adjustment
except the Gillette.
Any man can use a Gillette Safety P_azor. There is nothing to learn.
» No bother with strops and hones. You just lather —and shave.
Gillette Standard Sets, One Guinea. Sold everywhere. Write for
illustrated and descriptive Booklet. Please mention this paper.
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA ;
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
GILLETTE safety RAZOR ltd., LONDON, ENGLAND.
NO STROPPING NO HONING
SDF
IS YOUNG
AT 5S YEARS.
He is a
VITADATIO
Man,
therefore has the blood of
youth and vitality in his veins.
This, notwithstanding the fact
that eighteen years ago he
was pronounced absolutely
incurable, suffering from that
terrible disease HYDATIDS.
He spent over £l,OOO in
doctors and medicines before
he took VITADATIO, which
thoroughly cured him, and he
has since made it his life’s
mission to introduce the
medicine that cured him to
other sufferers in most corners
of the earth where there is
suffering humanity.
Be a Vitadatio
Man Yourself.
It gives manly strength. It
makes you young and keeps
you young all the days of your
life, by purifying the blood
sMs -
■i
and removing all disease from the system. It will strengthen your nerves and give you
a compelling force which will enable you to fight the world.
In these enlightened times everyone knows that disease attacks the system owing
to a poor quality of the Blood, and as VITADATIO is a natural herbal blood maker
it has successfully cured :
LIVER AND KIDNEY DISEASES
TUMOUROUS GROWTHS
GALL STONES
INDIGESTION RHEUMATISM
NERVOUS DISORDERS
CHEST TROUBLES
BLADDER TROUBLES
SKIN DISEASES
Write for full particulars and testimonials ; state how you suffer, and I will give
you FREE ADVICE. VITADATIO is sold by Chemists and Stores.
S. A. PALMER, 439 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE. VIC.
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS
fox- SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRADE MARK
SPLENDID 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra long range.
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/6. D.8.8.L. GUN, fitted with
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified steel barrels,
walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN EXCELLENT
KILLER. Holiday Price, £3/10/- D.8.8.L. GUN, choke and modified steel
barrels. Government Tested. THE FARMER’S FRIEND. Special Price,
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 22 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice and
light. A very accurate little weaoon. THE YOUTH’S FAVORITE. Holiday
Price, 14/6. CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent ejector. Takes _ .22
long, .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best sellers. Holiday
Price, 18/6. Write for Our Catalogue.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Largest Importers of Arms and Ammunition in the Commonwealth)
242-4 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
MODERN MIRACLES.
Remarkable Cures by
CLEMENTS TONIC
RECENTLY, In France, a peasant woman, whose little girl had
been bed-ridden with paralysis for years, had occasion to visit a
churchyard which contained the statue of a well-known saint.
Some of the mould from the tomb adhered to her handkerchief, which
upon touching her child cured her. This fact is vouched for upon
reliable authority.
Miracles are not all confined to the older countries, for we have
heard also of similar remarkable incidents in newer countries, and very
often in Australia, where only eighteen short months ago a certain
section of Broken Hill was electrified by the recovery from apparently
incurable St. Vitus Dance of the daughter of Mrs. R. A. Addington, of
Argent Street. It was on the 10th October, 1911, when first the
mysterious cure was reported. The mother, being seen by a special
interviewer, and overcome by gratitude that her daughter was healthy
again, told the facts at once. She said that the disorder occurred
through her daughter falling from a tram. This gave her a great
shock, and so affected her nervous system that eventually St. Vitus
Dance ensued. . She became so bad that it was impossible to hold a
knife or fork, and going out of the house was impossible. This
remarkable condition continued for some time, medical skill being
useless, Mrs. Addington declared, when suddenly, as the result of using
Clements Tonic, a wonderful change took place. She gradually
improved, and soon regained her normal condition. Nearly two years
have elapsed since her complete recovery, and all that time she has
enjoyed the best of health. “I have great faith in Clements Tonic, and
always recommend it,” added the mother, “and you can make what
use you wish of this.”
It is not strange that miracles should follow the use of this
miraculous medicine. Its cures of weak nerves, insomnia, debility,
sick headache, indigestion and constipation are really remarkable.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT EVERYWHERE.
GET IT AND GET WELL TO-DAY.


KJi»
BENGER’S
is the
most easily
digested
) Food
obtainable .
It is expressly
devised to be fully
nourishing- when
natural d’gestion
isenfeebled, whether
in child or adult.
It is prepared with fresh
new milk and forms a dainty
and delicious cream, which
fully satisfies “hunger-faint-
ness,” and soothes internal
discomfort. Benger’s is the
safe food in illness, and in
convalescence promotes
rapid recovery.
Delicate children thrive on it.
SD
Food
For CHILDREN.
Invalids and the aged
is sold by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
Bender’s Booklet—A little work of authority on
the special feeding of Children, Invalids,ana the
Aired, will be sent post free on application to:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.,Manchester, Eng.
Branch Offices— Nkw YORK (U.S.A.) 92, William Street
SYDNEY (N.s.w.) 117, Pitt Street.
Canadian Agents— National Drug Co., Ltd., Montreal
lBO A
• /
Sound
Teeth.
Brush
your teeth
at bedtime
with Pebeco ; it prevents
bacterial fermentation and
keeps the breath pure over-
night. Brush them on rising
and the tissues are invigor-
ated for the rest of the day.
Pebeco whitens the teeth,
safeguards them against
decay. Smokers in par-
ticular will find Pebeco
invaluable. It deodorises
the. breath and removes
stains from the teeth.
Doctors have been recommending
PebeeQ for the last 20 years.
€CO
TOOTn PASTE
A sample of “ Pebeco ’’ and an in-
teresting test by which you may
prove its value, sent FREE.
Of all chemists, Large Tube 1/6,
small 1/-. G. ARNOLD, 6 O’Gon-
nell St., Sydney (wholesale only)
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
Ai o^1 n Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
“^■Ji® 0 U R NE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St
: T Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
BJiKUi : McLean Bros. & Rigo-.
Aus. Rep—T. Nicholls. c/o Sydney Agents.
THE Best Stories written by Australian
U riters appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price. 6d. monthly.
Bonning'ton’
Juifecs
For the VOICE * *
THROAT <a LUNGS
Possess many of the unique and valuable curative properties of Bonnington’s Irish Moss.
They afford immediate relief in case of Sore or Relaxed Throat, Loss of Voice, Huskiness,
Spasmodic Cough, Bronchial Trouble etc. Whilst soothing and antiseptic in their action,
these Jubes are entirely free from all poisonous or other harmful substances.
'%r.
"S/l,
,/Vq
i?;
&v.
■s
'Xfs*.
1/
>522
a
w'
cx
<s>
A PLEASANT AND EFFECTIVE COUCH PASTILLE
SUITABLE FOR BOTH ADULTS AND CHILDREN
BONNINGTON’S JUBES aro highly recom-
mended for use by Bublic Speakers and
Singers. The Travelling Public -willalso find
them the best and most convenient Throat
Pastille. SOLD EVERYWHERE
Price, 1/3 per tin
It not obtainable locally, send price in
stamps to
Bonnington & Co., Ltd.
179 HARRIS STREET - - SYDNEY
DRUNKENNESS Cured
Any lady ran cure the most violent drunkard —secretly—at home. GOLDEN SPECIFIC has no
odor or taste, and ran be taken by the most delirate person of either sex. It totally eradicates
all craving for stimulants, creating a lasting antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases
are cured in a few days with this treatment.... Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and
full particulars. THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., Dept. B. 2011, 94 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
MAKE UP YOUR
MIND TO HAVE
A PERFECT
BUST
t
There are to-day hundreds of women who were once thin, flat-
bosomed, hollow-cheeked and generally scraggly in appearance, and
suffering the effects of anemia and defective digestion, who are now for
the first time in their lives healthy, full-bosomed and pink-cheeked, and
enjoying the full vigor of robust womanhood, as the result of a few
weeks under our wonderful
"FLESH-FOOD** TREATMENT.
Many women whose figures have been spoiled by maternal duties
have been entirely restored to splendid form, and flat-chested young
women who suffered slow development have had the fault corrected by
this treatment with lasting effect.
Flesh-Food is totally harmless in every respect. Its efficacy is
beyond question, and its use no demand upon the subject’s time. Many
cases gained up to six pounds a week, and an increase in bust measure-
ment up to 8 and 10 inches. Guarantee given in every case.
ANY WOMAN who lacks good bust development lacks the one essential that creates a perfect
appearance. Lack of proper bust development, hollow cheeks and “salt-cellars” quickly take from
a woman the bloom and freshness of healthy womanhood. - Misfortune may have been your lot in
so far as natural development is concerned, but science has found a way to correct your deficiency.
Even though you have never been full-bosomed, and though you have been attenuated all your life,
if you suffer from no wasting disease, your bosom can be fully developed and your weight increased
to normal. /r HAS BEEN DONE FOft THOUSANDS — WHY NOT YOU?
You can readily see the effect of an increase in your weight or measurements. It is not neces-
sary to imagine you are being benefited. See what Miss M. BOUEKE, of Tam worth, says-
“ Yours to hand, and am pleased to state that your treatment increased my
weight considerably over two stone, and my bust measureanents by several
inches. Since using it I am much better in health, and my flesh is now firm
and I feel stronger and more vigorous. I thank you for the trouble You have
taken, and am grateful for all you have done for me.”
We publish an interesting book on the subject of attenuation and develop-
ment, and will send same and a FREE SAMPLE TREATMENT to you FREE
OF CHARGE upon receipt of a 2d. stamp to pay part postage. All communica-
tions private and confidential. Write or call to-day for full particulars. [lBlB
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO., 1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
FREE
SAMPLE
WILL ANDRADE for MAGIC.
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
BOOK OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
3/0.
New 1912 Edition
Enlarged, 32 Ext
Plates, illustrating
Female Anatomy,
handsome Cloth Cover,
5/- Post Free.
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
Superb Virility of Man-
hood, by Bernard Mac-
fadden; simple home
methods for curing
weaknesses of men, 5/4 ;
Macfadden’s Sweethearts
for Life; life’s greatest
pleasure secured by ob-
serving highest human
instincts, 5/4 ; Macfad-
den’s Building Vital
Power, 5/4; Health,
Beauty, Sexuality, 5/4;
Strength from Eating,
5/4 ; Macfadden’s Devel-
oping Muscular Power,
5/4 ; Science of Muscu-
lar Development, 5/4 ;
Superb Womanhood,
5/4; Macfadden’s Physi-
cal Culture v. Consump-
tion, and Value of Air in
Strength-building, com-
plete, 2/2. AND ANY
Above prices include postage to any address.
CHEAP COrfJURING TRICKS.
Marvellously Simple ! Simply Marvellous !
a»
Multiplying: and Van-
ishing: Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Com-
plete with Full In-
structions (enabling
the merest amateur
to perform it), 1/6;
posted, 2/-
T wo - from -Five
Card Trick. Another
startler, introducing
something quite new
in magic. Price 6d.;
post free, Bd.
Tiie Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates a,i\id no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
BOOK YOU WANT. Mention The Bulletin.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Catalogues
FREE.
201 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.5.W.,,
writes: —
“it gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke, therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizzi-
ness, Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I
have every reason to believe were caused through the
use of tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are
onlv remembered as a hideous nightmare. I eat
and sleep well, and feel fit to face the world again.
It will give me great pleasure to recommend your
remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. Q,
107 CASTLE RE AG H ST., SYDNEY.
[i-
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women Sc children,
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-at., Melbourne, Vic.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austra-
lasian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in
vited i to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Ilol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see che
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Island of the Blest.”
Mr. Glynn declined to discuss the moral aspect,
and would not say whether he agreed with Dr.
Mjoberg that missionaries should not go among'st
the blacks, or with Mr. Hall that the blacks should
be given what comfort they could obtain from Chris-
tianity.—Daily payer.
It may be said, generally speaking, that the un-
civilised native is honest, but that the so-called
civilised aboriginal who has given up his old habits
and become often a mere loafer, is not. . . .1 see only
two alternatives, either rapid degradation and ex-
termination, or the formation of large reserves, wi-h
freedom therein from intercourse with whites and
“ Asiatics. — Professor Spencer's report.
Here, in a barn-like place, bedight
With tawdry, painted glass,
Hidden away from pleasant sight
Of trees and waving grass,
We dreamers, of the purblind eyes
And blood as water thin,
Ask pardon glibly—parrotwise—
For sins we dare not sin!
The organ’s sad, asthmatic tones
Throb in the heavy air;
The white-robed preacher dully drones
A parody of prayer.
High ’gainst the bright, symbolic pane,
A stupid, ’prisoned fly
Buzzes in frantic hope to gain
The light of God’s fair sky.
But lo! At last the preacher stands,
And cries: “Dear friends, I go
To Heathen lands—dark, fearful lands !
Where winds of evil blow.
Unto the hapless, heathen folk,
At bidding of the Lord—
Their shameful nakedness to cloak—
I carry now the Word!”
“Unhappy is the heathen’s lot—
Alone ’twixt sea and sky—
Their land by Time and Chance forgot
Has slipt the ages by;
But now I bear, into their Night,
The Gosnel sword of flame....
And I shall show them Wrong and Bight,
And teach them what is shame!”
* * * #
I see the distant, heathen isle,
Caressed by slumbrous seas;
The evil, sun-kissed beaches smile,
And, through the stately trees,
A fragrant spice-wind whispers low
To bird and butterfly—
While on the rocks where orchids grow
The basking lizards lie !....
Thus do the seasons go and come,
While nations wax and wane:
And there, the heathen in his home
Knows neither loss nor gain.
Christian with brother Christian strives,
Till mighty empires fall—-
But where the Stone Age still survives
Content is known of all!
There, where the shameful Stone Age lives,
In backwash of warm seas,
To weary eyes the good God gives
One glimpse of fabled peace!
And, lest we should forget the plan
From which, by chance, we came,
He there preserves the Simple Man-
Saws holiness — sans shame !
* * * *
Night’s vanguard climbs upon the world,
The sun-god slips away ;
I see his tattered banners hurled
Athwart the fields of day.
Dark-limned against the burning west,
Low in the purple sea
The ancient Island of the Blest
Awaits.... her tragedy !. . ..
Purple and gold and green below,
Opal and rose above —
And peace ice may not ever know,
No matter where we rove ;
This is the Heathen’s home —his grave—
From castes and creeds all free;
Can any peace the preachers have
Bless one so blest as he?
* . f..
Yet now some narrow mind and cold,
Groping in visions blurred—
Where all the paths are blind and old.
And Reason’s voice unheard —
With llolv Bell and Book must go
Unto this Island Blest,
That her poor, simple folk may know
The Big World’s fierce unrest!
What has your roaring Progress brought
Men of this age of steel?
What have your countless preachers taught,
O brains that throb and reel ?
O hearts that still may pity feel,
Pause now —and understand....
Speak—o’er your widespread Commonweal—
To save this one small land!
N.S.W.
ISHMAEL.
The Angel Boy.
It was a bonny, bright-haired boy
Who stood before the poor blind man.
They’d dressed him a la Fauntleroy,
And as I looked a tear drop ran
A-down his rosy, dimpled cheek.
I took his hand, and thus did speak:
“What ails you, Edwin, tell me true?”
Then turned on me the pretty youth,
His gentle eyes of heaven’s blue —
And they were limpid wells of truth.
“The poor blind man beside the gate
Has got no pennies in his plate!”
I patted him upon the head,
And gave a penny: “There, now go
And put it in the plate,” I said.
He moved away, and answered: “No,
You see, I only hung about
To get a chance to take one out.”
Victoria.
BILLY T.


aron
CIGARETTES.
In Sarony you get a cigarette that is the result of a lifetime of cigarette-
making experience—a cigarette made by hand from the finest tobaccos
procurable.
THE SARONY QUALITY is the highest, and it never
varies.
THE SARONY FLAVOR is mild and distinctive, and it
never changes.
In TURKISH or VIRGINIA.
ALL LEADING TOBACCONISTS.
Manufactured by
NICOLAS SARONY 8 CO., New Bond Street, London, W.
4s >
'■}M\
LISTER BRUSTON
Automatic
Eledlric
Lighting'
Plant.
Starts Itself.
Stops Itself.
Simpler and
Cheaper than
any other
type of
Uluminant.
AGENTS:
N.S.W.—W. C. Watson & Co. Ltd., 279 Clarence St., Sydney; VlC.—Sutherland & Ashman, Flinders St., Mel-
bourne ; QUEENSLAND—Winchcombe Carson Ltd., Creek Bt., Brisbane; S. AUS.—Clutterbuck Bros., Adelaide.
Picture Showmen!
WHY NOT HAVE THE BEST?
KELVIN
GENERATING SET
The Silent
Empire Bioscope
and the
Kelvin Electric
Generating Sets
are unbeatable.
It is our business —and pleasure—to intro-
duce these machines to you.
The Empire is built of Steel —a Special
Steel —that will outlast any other Bio-
scope, no matter how continuously it is
used.
They are Fireproof, and Absolutely Reliable.
THE KELVIN SETS —Engine and Dynamo direct coupled—stand alone in the Picture World.
We have them of different capacities, to suit all requirements. They are on the one base fitted with
wheels. The Engine is Slow Speed, and the greatest quality it possesses is efficiency. Send for our
Booklet on these Machines.
We have a few Second-hand Outfits on Sale. Are you Interested?
JERDANS LTD.
393 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Because the Body-Building Power of Bovril has been
proved to be from 10 to 20 times the amount taken.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
om
€?i
*
m
OILSKIN.
Best Watf. proof Invented for WALKING,
RIDING, DRIVING and General Uses.
Note the large, overlapping sheath and
side buttons, which give this coat a large
apron front, and absolutely prevent any
water from penetrating.
Ask your Storekeeper to show you a
“WATERSHED.”
Made in two weights:—
“Dugong-Watershed,” light weight, for
general use *32/6
“Rainbow-Watershed,” stout tnake,. for
rough wear 25/-
We shall be pleased to fotwatd ft copy of
our new, Illustrated List, post free on
request.
If unable to obtain your “Watershed"
locally, send order direct to us.
We pay carriage.
0
RUBBER
CO.Ltd.
270 George Street, SYDNEY*
Also Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane,
&
(UUa
The Accordeon with
"* MELLOW TONE
la just perfection for Song Accompaniments, Dance Must*
and Picnlca. The Organ-liUe Tone of these Instruments
I 9 attained by the use of Bell Metal Reeds, which 4rb hand-
fitted and tuned.
THREE POPULAR MObtUj
THE ORGAN TONED MElßfc
3 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, postfrea.
THE DANCE KING
4 Sets Bell Metal Reede, price 30/», post fre*
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 Sets Dell Metal Reeds, price 15/*, post free
OTHER MODELS FROM 7/6 TO 40/<
For Free Catalogue No. 9 write to—
FS
”276 COLLINS STREET,MELBOURNE,
and also at Bendloo and Geelong.
M
The Delaunay-Belleville
The Mechanically Perfect Car
We have just landed a consignment of
the new, 4-Cylinder, 18-h.p. Models of
the Delaunay-Belleville Cars, and they
are particularly suited to motoring con-
ditions in Australia.
From every standpoint the Delaunay-
Belleville Cars are giving splendid ser-
vice to their owners in this country,
whether it is dependability, power,
speed, appearance, comfort, etc.
Every prospective Motor-Car Buyer
should investigate fully the merits of
the Delaunay-Belleville Four.
Arrange for a trial demonstration.
Free Catalogue and fullest particulars
on application.
We are also
Agents for—
DAIMLER,
F.N.,
HUDSON,
ROVER,
AUSTIN,
OPEL,
CUTTING and
MARATHON
CARS,
HALLEY and
COMMER
MOTOR
LORRIES,
BAKER ELECTRIC
CARS and
TRUCKS,
WILLYS UTILITY
TRUCKS.
Dal g'ety ®. Co. Ltd
Motor Garage,
136-138 Phillip Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 35.-No. 1783.
THURSDAY, APRIL 16, 1914.
PlilCE 6l).
THE CHASE.
Ex-Premier Wade says that the Liberal should be caught young.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: City 2389.
City 2390.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
il 6s. 6d. per Annum, including Special
Christmas Number,'post paid.
„. sending direct to Tins Bulletin Office Twenty-
Ace Shillings and Sixpence Sterling you can have
Ihe Bulletin posted regularly to you every iveek
for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by talcing some
care as to methods of address.
Ilusitiess letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable. acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
feels, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
aritstic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
Neivs Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
F,c,\’V'l.—lgnqfe Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
II one, Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, I Vest Australia, Queensland, Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at
hf 6 per doz. nett.
Tiie Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6Jin.
x 11/in., and gelatine transparencies will be for-
warded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired.
Postage Kates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—-Throughout the Commonwealth, ,New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 160 z., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., Bioz.
to 10oz., 2id.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sd.; elsewhere, ioz.,
Id., and Id. each additional 2oz.
'tHeZz/n,
THURSDAY, APRIL 16, 1914.
HOW BROWN LOST HIS
INHERITANCE.
Very long ago — 848 years ago, to be exact —
England was unready for defence, even as
Australia is now. That is to say, it wasn’t
sufficiently ready. After the Germans and
Danes and Norsemen seized England—just as
a later generation of wandering adventurers
seized Australia —they gradually abandoned
their predatory habits, and ceased to hunt for
foreign adventure. They left Ireland alone.
They decided, after the appalling wreckage
of the battle of Nectansmere, that it was best
to leave Scotland alone. For a brief period
England formed part of a Northern Empire,
but that was because it was annexed by a
furious and yet snufflebusting foreigner from
Denmark —a warrior who had a habit of
weeping in church; not because it
went out to do gratuitous annexation.
When the Northern Empire fell to
pieces because the last descendant of
Gorm the Old died without issue and
full of beer, and England again set up in
business for itself, it was even more studi-
ously peaceful than usual, and its desire
was not to needlessly anger anybody. Its
white-robed king was a whale for piety till
he died. The country sent no armies to the
Soudan or South Africa or elsewhere, and
it offered back-talk to no extraneous poten-
tate whatsoever. It didn’t speak disparag-
ingly of Boers or Chinamen. England was
the land of Calm Stodge until it came abso-
lutely in sight of the catastrophe. People
with names like Beawolpii and Egfritii
held, in a general sort of way, that if the
country gave no offence nobody would take
offence. Gurtii was of the same opinion,
and Cedric agreed. In the last days be-
fore the storm England didn’t even cause
hostility, as Australia is forced to do, by
drawing the color line, for in those halcyon
times there was no color line to draw. It
didn’t annoy its neighbors by refusing the
folk of adjacent, over-crowded countries the
run of its empty spaces, for there were no
adjacent, over-crowded countries. It had
no religious differences with the peoples
round about, for all these peoples were of
one faith and hadn’t begun to religiously dif-
fer. It didn’t annoy immigrants with medi-
cal inspection. And England, 848 years ago,
had a citizen army of men—-not boys; but
unfortunately it didn’t take its army seri-
ously. It had a fleet which was a very fine
fleet —on paper or sheepskin—but the ship-
ping wasn’t taken very seriously either.
The Peace Society idea had got hold. And
that was how Brown, the typical English-
man, lost his inheritance. So, also, did his
brother, Smith.
* * * *
When two wholly unprovoked enemies fell
almost simultaneously on the contented Eng-
land of 848 years ago, the country had one
unusual advantage. The monk king, who
put his faith in God and goodwill, and
dressed in white as a sign of purity, and
refused even to occupy the same room
with his wife, had died just in time. His
place had been taken, at the last moment, by
about the best patriot and most tremendous
soldier that the English race ever produced.
He was no Joseph Cook, or Romulus
Augustulus, or Roderick, or Stanislaus
Poniatowski. Most races have done their
perish when a fool was in charge, but the
English went down with their very biggest
man at the helm. Unhappily events moved
too fast for the big man. He was crippled
by Public Stodge, by the Peace Society idea,
by the general reluctance to drill, by the
lack of efficiency, and by a Legislature
which hated to levy taxes. He was ham-
pered by Tradition. He was only in charge for
a few months, and hadn’t time to hang the
local Quaker with sufficient frequency. And
it was his curious ill-fortune to be “up
against” the greatest general that Norway
had ever produced—a magnificent ruffian who
had hacked his way from Norway to Greece
and back again; and the greatest soldier that
Normandy ever turned out.
* * * #
The last English king made an utter ruin
of the unprovoked Norwegian invader in the
ISorthern Territory—that is to say, in the
North of England. Then he made about
the swiftest tramp in history to look after
the equally unprovoked Norman invader in
the South. But, in those days, there was no
railway from Port Darwin to Adelaide be-
cause no one had had the sense to build one —
that is to say, the roads between York and
London were much neglected. The cadets,
which is another name for the ill-trained
citizen army, went to pieces on the hurried
march. The ironclads had abandoned their
job of patrolling the narrow seas through
lack of coal, because Millen and Joseph
Cook, supported by Higgs, had cut down the
estimates; or in other words, the English
fleet had retired into the Thames from lack
of wages and salt beef, and had left the road
open. If it had had a handy fortified harbor
at Bowen or Gladstone or some place
with the same name on the English Channel,
it might have refitted and got back
to its job in time, but it had to
retire on the congested city, and it
didn’t get back in time. The enemy
landed unopposed, and burned Brisbane —or
some corresponding place—and was advanc-
ing on Sydney—or what answered to Sydney
in the England of 848 years ago. The Peace
Society was still of opinion that nothing
serious would happen. The local Church
fell back on prayer—fell back so heavily that
it broke its neck, for when the Conquest hap-
pened even the humble curate was thrown
out into the back-alley to make room
for an alien. The Legislature spent too
much time discussing the loan, or the six-
hours question, or State Rights, or the
building of a dry capital at Canberra, or
something. So it was with a mere handful
of ill-trained men that the last English king
argued the point against the second enemy
who had happened along inside a year, and
had happened with no excuse save that the
country was a good one, and he wanted it.
When the day was over the army was prac-
tically extinct, and there wasn’t one leader
of any value or importance left alive. Thus
Brown, the Englishman, lost his farm, and
his house, and most of his clothes and boots,
and his victuals, and his bed, and his table,
and his chair, and the baby’s cradle—and
even his daughter, if it happened that a
stranger wanted her. And it is mentioned
casually, that “they put him in boxes filled
with nails,” and that “they hanged him up
by the feet and smoked him with foul
smoke.” Three years after the great inva-
sion an Irish army came over to attempt the
salvation of England, but England was past
saving.
* * * *
Yet the English nation had a certain
amount of good fortune. It lost its country
through lack of military training, lack of
discipline, ill-judged economy, and the
neglect to build railways to Port Darwin and
Perth, or whatever was the current equi-
valent of that oversight. Also it perished
because its voluntary service crowd got it
down, and it was obsessed by the folk who
declared that invasion was a false alarm.
Still it was conquered by a white race with
a religion and an alleged civilisation the
same as its own, and the conquerors were a
comparatively small body. So it wasn’t
blotted out as might have happened if a
brown or yellow horde, alien in color and
religion and civilisation and literature, had
descended on a community only one-tenth
its size. Brown, the Englishman, may have
lost for a long time all his goods and his
rights, but he was allowed to remain him-
self —to some extent. He didn’t become a
Mohammedan or a Buddhist or a nigger.
He had more luck than the unprepared
Hungarians had when they went to smash
at Mohacz, or the Greeks had when the
Turks arrived, or the Russians when the
Tartars dropped on them, and burned the
Czar and his family alive. There was left
to him a fair chance of national recupera-
tion.
* * * *
It was a long and dreadful experience
which fell on England by reason of its
casual optimism. The country, since that
episode of 848 years ago, has had kings of
Norman, French, Scotch and German origin,
but really English sovereigns have been few.
It was ruled for centuries by autocrats who
didn’t even pretend to speak the local lan-
guage. It got down to such a point of
subservience that no man might lawfully
defend himself against a Frenchman, no
matter what the provocation. And every
man found dead by violence was assumed to
be a Frenchman unless proved to be otherwise
—if he was proved to be otherwise he didn’t
matter much —and had to be accounted for-
on general principles by the nearest English
town or village, with fines and executions.
Centuries after the unpleasant event the
English race was still'paying for its'casual-
ness. In fact, it is paying even now. The
inheritance hasn’t been wholly recovered to
this day.
The conquerors who came over from
France had surnames, or they early acquired
them. These were largely territorial designa-
tions, and signified the pride and pomp and
state of the landowner. The Englishman,
who had lost his land, struggled along for a
while without a surname, just as Sambo did
in the slave days of Louisiana. He was an
obscure animal on whom no luxuries were
wasted. But at last there arose a habit of
giving him a family name, possibly because
it was easier for his boss to find him when
he was thus ticketed. He was called Smith
because he toiled at the forge making hard-
ware for his lord, and the exceeding
great number of Smiths suggests that
his lord used a heap of hardware. He
was Taylor because he made clothes (or
he mip'ht be Briggs because he specialised
in trousers) ; Brown because of his
complexion; Short because there wasn’t
much of him; Johnson because he was
John’s son; or Jobson because he was Job’s
son. None of these neople—not even .Tobson
—has ever recovered the throne which a set
of supine ancestors lost 848 years ago.
Surprisingly few of the Smiths and Browns
have come to the front as statesmen, for the
tradition of the “ruling families” still lin-
gers. Considering the comnaratively liberal
institutions of England during later cen-
turies, and the great numbers of the con-
quered as compared with the remarkable
fewness of the conquerors, the progress made
towards the recovery of the land hasn’t been
so great as might be expected. The English
aristocracy is still proud of its French origin
when it possesses the article, and occasionally
professes to possess the article when it
doesn’t. And, curiously enough, the old
distinctively English names are still re<-
garded as somewhat of a jest, and as a butt
for the humorist and the cartoonist. There
remain among all the English-speaking
peoples some traces of the old French deri-
sion for the Englishman who neglected to
prepare a sufficient army and navy in the
days when the world was young. Therefore
when Smith does rise to a certain social
elevation he is addicted to calling himself
Carrington, or something of the sort. He
wants to be one of the scorners —not one of
the scorned. He wants to be French and is
ashamed of the degradation of being English.
* * * *
So, even after all these years, there lingers
a suspicion that the money which Cook
and Kelly and Higgs, encouraged, perhaps,
bv Miss Rose Scott, and abetted by Harry
Holland, saved on the army estimates and
the fleet, and the Northern Territory rail-
road in a.d. 1066 was a poor investment.
For the enemy came and took all the savings.
Also he took nearly everything else. And the
Peace Society folk who wrote to the paper
which was published by hand at Westminster,
saying that unprovoked aggression was im-
possible and unthinkable, were set by their
new masters to carting dung and herding
swine. Many of their descendants are still
engaged in humble avocations of the sort.
Furthermore, the scrap of ancient history
on which this article is built suggests that
even a very great statesman and soldier
can’t organise an efficient defence at the last
moment. It was because of the impossi-
bility of doing everything at the last moment
that Brown, the Englishman, lost his inheri-
tance, as, likewise, did his brother Smith.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Australia’s Foreign Legions.
The “national regiment” foolishness was
consummated last week, when the Federal
Executive Council approved of the retention
of Scottish, English and Irish regiments as
“extra territorial” units of the Australian
army. “Uniforms distinct from the Austra-
lian khaki” are to be worn, and, in general,
a strenuous attempt is to be made to create
a distinct caste in the Commonwealth’s land
forces. Thus does Australia deliberately
saddle itself with a system which British
military experts have for long recognised
to be one of the curses of their own army.
And it does worse than that. The new ar-
rangement must tend to foster one of the
most undesirable spirits that can afflict a
young country which is still in the process
of struggling towards nationhood. The
Anglo-Indian is an easily understandable
variety of citizen. India is a colored man’s
country, whether it is the India of the frozen
hills or the India of the tropical plains.
The Englishman goes there frankly to ex-
ploit it and its inhabitants, in one way or
another, and effect his get-away as soon
thereafter as may be. But the case of Aus-
tralia is different. It is a white man’s land,
and if it is’ to have any national future
worth mentioning it wants citizens who are
whole-hearted Australians first, last and all
the time. The Anglo-Australian sentiment
is going to be as disastrous in time of inter-
national trouble to the Commonwealth, if it
is fostered-40 any extent, as the Anglo-Irish
feeling is and always has been to Ireland.
There is no surer way of fostering it than
by foisting on the Australian Army Scottish,
English and Irish regiments, whose mem-
bers have been required “to, prove that they
are substantially of English, Scottish or
Irish descent.” The greatest enemy of the Aus-
tralian defence movement has all along been
the identical spirit which is bound up in the
formation of “national regiments.” The
authors of the Dreadnought movement were
only Dreadnoughters because they imagined
that they saw in Dreadnausea a chance to
kill the Australian Navy scheme. Scratch
an anti-“conscriptionist” and you will in-
fallibly find a passionate adherent of the
principle of “national regiments.” Scratch
him some more and you will discover the
facts that he is violently anti-Australian;
that he considers it to be like Australia’s
insolence to give Britain the lead in the
matter of compulsory service; and that if
lie had his way the country would revert
speedily to the voluntary arrangement. Any-
thing that encourages this sort of calamity
is plainly detrimental to that ideal of ' unity
which every Australian should strive-after.
The “national regiment” system does it
most palpably. It not only tends to make
ordinary citizens foreigners in their own
country, but it actually makes foreigners of
Australia’s own compulsorily-trained sol-
diers. It is a reasonable contention that a
country which is good enough for a man to
settle in, and make a living in and bring up
his family in, is good enough for the same
man to adopt, and that unreservedly. The
person who is careful to announce himself
some variety or other of British-Australian
is but half a patriot at best. While inter-
national affairs run smoothly he is innocu-
ous enough. But when difficulties arise he
automatically pushes to the front, and ren-
ders them more acute. And when he is a
member of the national defence forces he
may be in a position—as that distinguished
anti-Irish soldier, General Gough, proved in
Britain the other day—to render the diffi-
culties of the moment very acute indeed.
Ruinous Reticence.
Melbourne Argus didn’t exactly publish
the following warning remarks the other
day:—
In a certain district, or bailiwick, or burgh of
Victoria (or it might be N. S. Wales) there exists a
person who is a menace to the whole of Australia.
The district need not be mentioned (on second
thoughts it may be neither in Vic. or N.S.W., but
in S.A. or Queensland or even conceivably Westralia
or Tasmania) ; nor would it quite do to indicate
the offender’s name, or age, or sex, or general
appearance. Suffice it to say that he is a standing
danger to the entire nation. He secretly murders
thousands of people. None of them deserve the
dreadful tortures to which he puts them ; no human
being ever fairly earned the agonies to which many
of these sufferers have to submit. As a matter of
fact, a considerable proportion of his victims don’t
merit any punishment at all. They are good and
innocent women, or small children. Some he drives
mad—but for him our great asylums would be half
empty—others he afflicts with appalling nervous
complaints and skin diseases. We (in common
with the rest of the daily papers) know the name
and address of this menace to the welfare and happi-
ness of the State. We could direct the attention of
the authorities to him, and presently have him
grappled with and utterly exterminated, if we felt
that way. But he is a horror of old standing.
Furthermore, convention has laid it down that his
doings are not to be discussed by really polite
people. The attitude of the Genteel is that he
doesn’t exist —though there is scarcely a solitary
Genteel home that lacks at least one of his victims.
We have known him so long, that we have almost
ceased to fear him —or at any rate „we fear him in-
comparably less than we do a mild attack of small-
pox. And, so, day by day, he contirtu.es to destroy
valuable lives and spread unspeakable misery
throughout the land, while we (in common'with the
rest of the dailies) give him the moral support of
our silence. Even if we deplore his ravages we do
it so guardedly that few can understand who or .what
it is we are rebuking. But mostly we say nothing
at all, and he pursues bis march of devastation un-
checked.
The Argus didn’t put it in . just
those words. But in Dr. B* Bubnett
Ham’s article on Brieux’s recently produced
play, “Damaged Goods,” which it printed
(5/4/’l4), it got there just the same.
Brieux’s play is in effect a sermon on syp-
hilis. Any comment on it that is less out-
spoken than the play itself must be not only
foolish but quite valueless. The Argus,
for the benefit, presumably, of its more gen-
teel readers, has so sub-edited Dr. HAM.as to
make his otherwise useful contribution quite
futile and uninformative. As his article
appears it would almost take a member of
the medical profession to appreciate what he
is driving at. In the production of which
he writes, a message from the author was
read to the audience to the effect that the
play they were about to witness was a study
of the disease of syphilis in its bearing on
marriage. The Argus makes no mention of
this most striking episode. Not once, in the
course of a column-long dissection of the
play, is the name of the disease, on which
the work is based, mentioned. It is referred
to as “the scourge,” and so on; but as to
indicating it in the same spirit of healthy
frankness that people do typhoid or influenza
—well, the Argus wouldn’t dream of it.
Syphilis is as secure from assault as the
South Pacific Ocean so long as this miser-
able spirit of reticence is abroad. The ig-
norant, who form such a huge majority, both
of the rich and the poor classes, will never
learn to fear syphilis till it i§ dragged out
into the sunlight and shown to . them. And
till a majority of the electors' know enough
about this complaint to dread it, it will never
be tackled in a serious spirit by the politi-
cians. Why can’t widely-circulated papers
such as the Argus desist from comporting
themselves in this regard, like prurient-
minded old maids? The health of a nation
is hanging in the balance.
The Man Who Couldn’t Get Work in
Orange.
Prom The Bulletin’s Homeless Contri-
butor :
A melancholy person- who puts an end to himself
with a bullet from a revolver is not always the best
witness regarding motive; yet he ought to know
something about it. At any rate, he is interested
in the matter, and has a right to be heard. Thus a cer-
tain amount of respect should be paid to the statement
of William Ellis, deceased, whose body was found
on the Spring Hill-road, near Orange (N.S.W.), a
few. days ago. The late Mr. Ellis left this message
to the world at large: “I have tried to get work in
this town, and cannot. I am now at the mercy of


this world. I camped out last night, hard up and
3 What sort of work William could do, and with
what degree of capability he did it, I do not know;
but the world is full of Williams of some sort who
want work, and work that wants some sort of
Williams, and a job that it bungles most horribly
is the job of bringing these two together. .
Labor agency is confused, formless, disorganised,
a:.d chaotic. It depends mostly on the scramble of
Private Enterprise, to understand which you should
go to the ant. From the habits of that over-boomed
insect you will perceive that 10 ants or 20 ants will
worry one small crumb of bread and jam, while a
dozen other crumbs lie round the vicinity with not
one feeler testing them. If a man is looking for a
billet in a city he pads the hoof from one registry
office to another, and has to make a search through
20 lists where one list ought to suffice for every-
body. As the shoal of work-seekers drifts along, it
often happens that a score of men are battling for the
same job at the same dingy office, while nine or 19
other jobs are lacking applicants for the time
being. Throw chopped liver into a trout pool at
the fish hatchery, and every fish in the water leaps
for the first crumb that hits the surface. The loafer
is as likely as the quickest trout to get the last and
best lump. That is what is called Looking for
Work. It is beautifully anti-Sosh, and typical of
all anti-Soshism.
There is no reason why a good, healthy instalment
of practical Socialism should not be given to the
workman at once. Apart from the Government labor
agencies which ought to exist, a central registration
of jobs and job-seekers is the easiest thing in the
world. All that is required is a telephone, and a
very few clerks in a big central office in the city.
Every employment agent should be compelled to
notify the central office, within an hour at most,
what jobs have been registered with him, or what
men and women have left their names \yith him as
seeking work. If anybody chooses to register at the
central bureau, let him do it. There is not much
consideration due to those industrial go-betweens,
the employment agents, many of whom play dirty
thief-tricks on the unfortunate devil out of work.
At present the employment system is a system with-
out headquarters, a condilion in which there can
be no efficiency.
In the country, search for employment is even
harder, for the distances are longer and even the
chaotic Private Enterprise job-middleman is often
missing. On the other hand, the distress of being
unemployed is, as a rule, not so bitter as in the city.
The normal way of finding a billet in the country
is to tramp from township to township until you
get it. Some unhappy blokes fall into the despond-
ency which afflicted the late Mr. Ellis, who shot
himself because there was no work for him in the
town of Orange. If William had been able to look
at a district register, would his end have been any
different? Nobody can say what would have hap-
pened to William, who is beyond supplementary ex-
planations. But it is certain that five-sixths of the
hungry anxiety of looking for work would he saved
by the simple device of keeping a classified register
at a central bureau of information in every town of
size. The thing has become as necessary as a post
office. Such a centre might prevent a future
William from blowing out his brains because he
couldn’t get employment just round the corner, and
beyond the corner was chaos.
Of course there are hopeless Williams who are
quite unfit for jobs. But they are largely a product
of the system.
♦
The Horrible Discordance of Liberal
Organs.
Let us say that “Liberalism” in the Com-
monwealth is fairly represented by Mel-
bourne Age, which practically pioneered the
Protection policy hereabouts. Between the
most advanced progressives and the deep-
rooted Tories the Age moves midway, always
looking back to see that it advances no fur-
ther than midway. Therefore when the Vic.
organ of Liberalism girds at the existing
system of Party Government its contradic-
tions of itself are less humorous to reflective
readers than the clashing of its ideas with
those of the Tory press, which also works for
the “Liberal” party at election times. Thus
t lie Age, referring to the British Constitu-
tional situation: —
Under the present Party system the Cabinet is all
powerful. It controls its own followers as despoti-
cally as it controls the House of Commons. We have
it on the authority of private members of that
House, that they have no more hope of influencing
events than Mrs. Partington had of keeping back the
Atlantic tides with a broom. A private member
cannot and dare not touch the smallest detail of
Cabinet policy lest the party machine be infracted.
Professor Morgan says: “Cabinet Government as we
know it is the outcome of the Party system, which
tfcfcjiay means the caucus, and I doubt if any of the
devices of political mechanics, such as proportional
representation, will dislodge it from its supremacy.”
All this is leading up to the prediction that
Second Chambers, no matter whether Austra-
lian senators or British peers, are the occu-
pants—must inevitably be swept away by
the unwieldy broom of common sense, a pre-
diction with which Australian Laborites
would concur if the Federal Senate hap-
pened to have an anti-Labor majority. In
the individual facts, as well as in the Age’s
clumsily evolved argument, the contradic-
tions of our “Liberal” party journalism are
apparent. The old Tory side of it believes in
an Upper House or Chamber of Review as
steadfastly as it believes in Private Enter-
prise and freehold propputy, and hates the
word “Socialism.” Again the Tory side of
Liberalism declares that- the essential evil
of Labor Government is in Caucus control.
“The Cancer of the Caucus” is the disease
that afflicts the Commonwealth, according to
Tory-Liberal Senator McColl. The Fisher
Ministry was contemptible because the
Caucus shaped the policy, and no member
of the Labor party ever shouted with the
Opposition, said the Argus. But here is
the Age quoting sympathetically those
British M’s.P. who complain that “the Cabi-
net is all powerful” in British Government.
Private, members have no hope of influencing
events in the smallest degree. Clearly this
hopeless weakness of private members in
Britain must be due to their lack of Caucus
system, seeing that a Labor Caucus, com-
prising all the private members of the party,
cauld control a Labor Cabinet in Australia.
But the Age quotes approvingly the moan
of an English professor to the effect that all
Cabinet Government to-day is the outcome
of the Caucus system, and must always re-
main so as 1 ing as there are Parties in Par-
Thus we have a representative
organ of Liberalism uttering opinions and
suggestions as follows :
(1) The Cabinet is all powerful in Party politics.
Private members have no influence whatever, there-
fore they do not fairly represent their constituencies.
(2) Cabinet Government is the result of the
Party system, which means the Caucus.
(3) Second Chambers (commonly known as Upper
Houses) should be abolished.
On the other hand, the Tory press which
supports Jokook Government says that when
Labor is in power :
(1) The Caucus dictates the policy of the Cabinet
and every private member is a force in the Caucus.
(2) The Caucus is controlled by Labor organisa-
tions outside Parliament, which represent the rank
and file of the party, therefore the Caucus is an
abomination because it comprises all the private
members who do fairly represent their constituencies.
(3) Upper Houses are the soul of good Government
and the country would go to the dogs if they were
abolished. But when a Senate contains 80 p.c. of
Labor members, the position is “intolerable.”
The one sure conclusion to be drawn from
the din of conflicting anti-Labor utterances
is that party politics are to blame for it.
Party politics was the natural cause, not
the effect, of party journalism—there were
Whigs and Tories in England long before the
voters had newspapers to talk to them —and
“Liberal” party journalism in Australia is
about the most maddening product of poli-
tics that ever came to pass. Worse than the
arguments of cats on the tiles.
Still with the Enemy.
Some more of the old unpalatable news
from Sydney Sun’s Melbourne correspondent
(5/4/’l4) :
Mr. Holman not only does most of the talking [at
the Premiers’ Conference] amongst Ministers, he
leads them in their opposition to Federal encroach-
ments.
The Premiers’ Conference to-day resolved that to
terminate Federal and State Savings Bank compe-
tition the State Governments would he willing to allow
the Savings Bank deposit now held by the Common-
wealth Bank to remain on fixed deposit with the
Commonwealth Bank, and to become responsible” to
the Savings Bank or otherwise for the redemption
of such deposits, and further to undertake at their
earliest convenience and as far as possible to trans-
act all State banking business with the Common-
wealth Bank. All this to be done in consideration
of the Commonwealth Bank withdrawing from
Savings Bank business. Westralia dissented from
the resolution.
The question of the appointment of State Gov-
ernors was raised at the Premiers’ Conference to-day
by Mr. Scaddan (W.A.). He advocated that eminent
citizens of the States should be eligible for the
positions.
Scaddan pointed out that when Westralia
had requested the British Government that
Australians should be eligible as State
Governors the reply was that no action
could be taken without uniformity among
the States. Finding the Conference against
him on the general question, Scaddan moved
that there was no call for any expression of
opinion on the part of Australians gener-
ally, or by the collective State Governments
—that is, if any State desired to appoint
one of its own citizens to be its purely local
Governor it should have the right to nego-
tiate with the British Government re such
appointment without consulting other
States. And, again, Westralia was the only
State that voted in favor of so much of a
Democratic proposal. Yet, the Labor party
is distinctly in favor of locally-grown Gov-
ernors ; also, Holman is Labor’s eastern
representative on the Conference. Let’s see:
First, there was Holman’s scarcity on
Labor’s side at the first Referenda fight;
then there was the duck to England from the
second Referenda; continually, the borrow-
ing and sinking-fund plank in the platform
is being guyed; and Labor’s delegate (not
its dictator) in N.S.W. is again busy lead-
ing the Tory State Frights ; and goes after
the Australian Labor party’s national sav-
ings bank with an axe in the van of the
said Labor party’s pledged enemies; and
throws his weight behind the Snobocracy
which makes the imported Excellency a
burden to the land. Now, how long does
Labor propose to make a platform and leg-
up Holman to foul it?
The Smallest Ex. and the Size Thereof.
A personage who seems likely to shake up
this corner of the earth in his own way is
the local Governor of Tasmania —by com-
plete title and designation, the Right Hon-
orable Sir William Grey Ellison Mac-
artney, with a tail of letters streaking like
a demented comet in pursuit of his
name. Willi AM-wi th-all-the-other-names-and-
the-demented-comet recently met with the
quietest sort of a political crisis. It was
supposed that the election for the Tas-
manian House of Assembly had produced
a deadlock, and that 15 members followed
Premier Solomon, the Tory, while another
15 followed Opposition-leader Earle, the
Laborite. As it proved, there was
no deadlock, for Wiiitsitt, who was
a sort of Independent, ranged him-
self with Earle instead of Solomon.
Solomon asked for a dissolution in a formal
kind of way, and, being refused, he went
out like a gentleman, or a bloke, or some-
thing. Earle tried to come in like a gentle-
man, or a cove, or something; but found his
Excellency-—the very smallest Ex. of the
Commonwealth —in his road. Apparently
because Earle was a Labor man, or for
some other reason, the very smallest Ex. in
the Commonwealth thought fit to make
special demands on him. These are re-
ported to have been as follows: (1) That
the perfectly new Parliament should be dis-
solved immediately, though why it should be
dissolved so long as the Earle Ministry had
a majority it is hard to say, and a majority
of one is a good enough majority if the
party attends regularly; and (2) that “in
the event of the office of Attorney-General
not being filled by a fully qualified lawyer in
practice, the Governor must reserve the
right to retain legal advice, when he con-
siders it necessary, from other sources.”
This stipulation suggests that his Ex. is
the limit and the dead finish and the ulti-
mate possibility. The Earle party is
notoriously deficient in legal talent, for pro-
minent lawyers are usually Tories. But if
the party has to put up some nominal sort
of lawyer as Attorney-General, it is plainly
Premier Earle’s business, and hot the Gov-
ernor’s, to hire an outside legal expert—who
may be called Crown Solicitor or Solicitor-
General or any old thing—to advise on tech-
nical questions. The proposal that the Gov-
ernor —the smallest X in the Commonwealth
—should appoint a casual or variable or
shifting legal adviser, or fleeting Attorney-
General, who would really amount to a
transient member of the Ministry—should
appoint him on his own motion, or perhaps
with the advice of the aide-de-camp, or the
nursemaid, or the butler, or the sentry on
duty at the front gate—was beyond all
reason. And the limitations of his Smallest
Ex. appeared in this statement: —
It is important to bear in mind that the discre-
tion of the Governor with regard to the question of
dissolution, as in other instances of the exercise of
prerogative, is much wider in the COLONIES than
that upon which, by constitutional practice, the
Sovereign acts in the United Kingdom. It is im-
possible, as one of the most recent authorities on
government in the DOMINIONS has pointed out, to
maintain the position that the Governor is parallel
to the Sovereign in constitutional monarchy, and
that, therefore, he is obliged to act on the advice of
his Ministers in the same sense in which the King of
the United Kingdom acts on the advice of his Minis-
ters.
Leaving out the involved constitutional ques-
tion, which seems to be material for inter-
minable argument, it is worth while to note
that his Smallest Ex. has apparently failed
to master the simple terms employed in his
very simple business. First he talks of “the
colonies” (with a small “c”). Tasmania is
a State, not a Colony. He discourses about
“the Dominions” (with a big “D”). Tas-
mania is a State, not a Dominion (with a
big “D” or a small one). And then he
alludes to some potentate whom he calls
“the King of the United Kingdom.” It
seems rather a crude, and sudden abbrevia-
tion, but no doubt his Smallest Ex. means
Well. Still, as he has very little to do save
pour out at full length his gracious sove-
reign’s full pomp and dignity, he need not be
quite so
The Latest Income-tax Mystery.
The present N.S.W. Government’s crazy
hatred of co-operative enterprise, and its
crazy preference for the big. solitary capital-
ist, yvere evidenced once- more in its newest 5
Income-tax Bill. The company gets none of
the exemptions which apply to the lone pirate
on the high seas 'b'V'lommerce or finance. It
may be a very small affair, showing a profit
of £5OO a year, to be divided- among a num-
ber of shareholders, while the person who
cruises on his own may make a great deal
more than that single-handed. Yet, all the
same, the company doesn’t get the exemption
of £250 which is allowed to the individual
capitalist, and its rate doesn’t start at Sd. in
the f, but is Is. all round. Possibly none
of the members of the Holman Ministry
invests, much in companies—some of them
are said to be land dealers and property
owners on a big scale, but they seem to be
rather an aloof and lonesome crowd in busi-
ness matters —so they may not know much
about this particular line of industry. Still
their bitter hatred of co-operation in busi-
ness seems over the odds. They don’t aim
specially at the huge company which
threatens to develop into a trust or a com-
bine or a monopoly, and thus become a pub-
lic danger; if 10 humble Australians get
together to run an incorporated butter-box-
making enterprise in a shed they are struck
just as hard as if they were the Colonial
Sugar Refining Co. or the Bank of New
South Wales. Yet if, some day, another
Government follows up this idea with a tax
of Is. in the £ on the revenues of trades
unions, which also represent the co-operative
idea, Holman and Co. will probably become
very wild indeed. A notable feature of the
new taxation is that the special tax on the
absentee capitalist has been abolished, the
love of the Holman Ministry for the rich
absentee being apparently greater than that
of Jonathan for David. And, a serious
attempt was made to enact that profits made
from sales of N.S.W. property should be
taxable if the property-jobber lived in
N.S.W., but not otherwise. This proposi-
tion was abandoned when the Bill was before
the Upper House, annarently because the
Government couldn’t face the storm of deri-
sion which it aroused, but the fact that it
should ever have been in the Bill suggested
a strangely inverted frame of mind. Seeing
that N.S.W. is to have the highest income-
tax in Australia, it would plainly pay the
whole crowd of land-jobbers, under this
scheme, to remove their head offices to Mel-
bourne or Brisbane, and nominally job in
N.S.W. lands from there, so that they might
pay a very small tax outside N.S.W. instead
of a big one inside. If they didn’t adopt
this scheme, the old-established Melbourne or
Brisbane or Adelaide property jobbers would
have a chance to annex their business by the
simple process of under-selling them. The
income-tax propositions have been a muddled
and mixed set of devices from first to last.
The keynote to some of the anomalies seems
to be that the Holman Government is a
frenzied dealer in foreign loans, and is strug-
gling all the time to placate the outside per-
son —any and every variety of outside per-
son-—who looks as if he might have a little
money to lend. Its efforts to propitiate the
outside person who looks as if he might have
money about him ipay be clumsy and inco-
herent, but they are certainly earnest. The
war which Holman and Co. wage so per-
sistently, and wholly without explanation,
against N.S.W. co-operative enterprise, is
another thing. It can’t be imagined that all
the fuss arises because some Minister’s first
wife’s mother is married to the manager of a
wool-scouring company at Dandaloo, or any-
thing of that humble sort, so the personal
element-doesn’t come in. It may be simply
an incompetent desire to save trouble. The
Victorian Legislature did that sort of thing
once, when, being too exhausted to compile a
list of noxious weeds, it passed an Act
ordering landholders to extirpate thistles, and
added that any Government might, at its
discretion, if it had such a thing, declare
almost anything a thistle. Thus the Vic-
torian House of Rich Landlords may one day
be declared a thistle. In like manner, it
may be, the Holman Government, being un-
able to define a trust or an injurious
mononol.y, saves itself brain-fag by hitting all
companies alike.
♦
A Lame Duck on Wheels.
Years ago, when the Melbourne land boom
was young, and overdrafts hadn’t become
bloated, certain sanguine capitalists built
what they called a tram-line from Sandring-
ham to Cheltenham, round a slab of the bay
shore, past Blaekrock, Beaumaris, Quiet
Corner, Linger Longer and other sweetly-
named spots. The contraption possibly paid
at one time, though that is doubtful, but for
long it has been a losing proposition. The
prads or mokes are dilapidated scarecrows,
the vehicles are ramshackle affairs that hang
together by the grace of God and a piece of
string, and the track is like unto the track
of the mastodon as he wandered through the
primeval forest. It is such a hopeless
wreck, as well as a danger, that Moorabbin
Council, which foolishly gave away its street
rights long ago, despairs of ever getting the
company that owns it to do anything, and has
asked the Government to investigate the case
with a view to getting the incubus shifted.
The inouiry isn’t finished yet, but it is
humorsome as far as it has gone. In many
places the rails don’t play speaks with the
sleepers, and often they are kept more or
less together by billets of wood. The gauge
varies from 4ft. BJin. to 4ft. lOin. (The ob-
vious tendency towards a broad gauge is
commendable, but somewhat insecure.)
Naturally the cars leave the tracks whenever
they think fit, and then the driver addresses
the passengers with, “All out and bear a
hand,” and the aged hearse is shoved on the
rails once again—only to fall off a chain
further on. Some of the cars have no brakes ;
in others the w’heels are almost worn away,
and nbiie have been painted since the year
Two —which is a year after the One they
started in. The concern has become, in fact,
a dilapidated joke and a nuisance, but Pri-
vate Enterprise still keeps the funeral crawl-
ing. It has a monopoly of that beach road.
Some day the citizens will demand electric
traction, and then the franchise will become
a marketable property. It will have to be
bought out, at great expense. The investi-
gation has been adjourned for a week, to
give the company a chance to “consider the
evidence,” but if it is wise it will do nothing
of the sort. Instead, it will hold an auction
sale of its threadbare horses, its dry-rotten
cars and its switchback track, and buy a
brief hour’s oblivion with the proceeds.
The Spender.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Holman: Would the funds now used for con-
struction be diverted to conversion ?
Mr. Cook: No; conversion would not interfere with
internal development.
Mr. Griffith (jocularly) : If it’s a proposal to
spend money, I am with you. (Laughter.)- —Report
of the Uniform Railway Gauge discussion at the
Premiers’ Conference.
Washes gooder bein’ mean —
Pilin’ up the gilt?
’Oardin’ ev’ry bleshid bean ?
That ain’t ’ow I’m built.
Ev’ry bloke ’as gotter go
Bender now an’ ’en.
Make slier pop (hie) ler, yell know.
Fillemupagen !
I’m er bloke ’at knows er way
Maker quids go round !
Lash it up when I go gay !
Washer mill’n pound?
’lts it up red-’ot, I do;
Spen’s me money free;
Shouts for ev’ryborry ’oo
Wansher drink with me.
When they comes to breasli the trough
They ses, “ ’E ain’t proud.
Spen’s ’is money like er toff;
Shoush for all the crowd.
’E’s er sorter bloke for us !
Treats us all eround.
Washer gooder maker fuss?
Washer mill’n pound?”
Lishen ’ere a arf a mo ;
Wanter tellyer thish—
Jush between ourshelves, yeh know —
Lirrle secret —Ssh !
Gotter nuncle ’Eaps er quids....
Tons er quids ’e’s got. .. .
Didden know I ’ad some Yids
For relashuns? Wot?
When I wanter bitter cash —
Mill’n —two er three,
Jush to maker lirrle splash
’Mongsh er boys....Yeh shee?
For the shop I do a duck
Where ole Nunky lurksh :
“Wanner buy shum reprod-uc-
(hie)-productive worksh.
“’Ow’s er money market, Nunk?
All me larsh is shpent.
’And usli out a mill’n plunk.
Don’t care wot p’shent!
Gotter good security—-
’Ole er N,oo Sou’ Wailsh !’’
Uncle’s drefful good to me;
’Ardly ever fails.
When I gets er lirrle loan —
Whoop! I hitsh it up!
Anyborry think I own
Winner Melbun Cup !
Plenny more when tha’sh all (hie)
All (hie) (Shoose me) shpent.
Uncle gives me ’eaps er tick —-
Fourer five p’shent.
S’pose yeh wunner w’y I’m flush
(’Ave annurrer beer).
Tell yeh lirrle secret. Ush!
Wishper in yer ear. .. .
I don’t ’ave to pay it back !
Don’t belong to me.
When the crowd give me the sack,
Nexh bloke worries—Shee?
Forty, fif’y year from now,
Kids’ll getter bill.
Nuncle makin’ heller row—
Nothin’ in er till!
Things’ll go from bad to worsh
Shix’y year ahead.
I won’t care a tinker’s cursh !
I’ll (hie) I’ll be dead.
I’m jush out to give er boys
Reel ole roarin’ shpree.
I’m er sorter bloke injoys
Spen’in’ money free.
Plenny boodle in er till!
Lerrer jag go on !
Bloomin’ kids’ll foot the bill
When we’re deadengone.
Washer go’n’ to ’ave, you shaps?
Awrer washer please!
I can borrer more (hie) p’raps
When I’ve blewed all these.
Plavsh a bitter ragtime shoon!
Never mind er shange!
Nurrer lirrle loan I’ll soon—
Soon (hie) soon errange.
Fillemupagen ! Wosh O !
Mine’s a lirrle glassh
Reproduc (hie) worksh, yeh know —-
Shame uz I ’ad larsh.
Glarsher reproduc (hie) works
Good for stum (hie) stum-
Stummick, when the beggar shirks,
An’ I’m feelin’ rum.
Washer gooder gittin’ sore?
Plenny cash erbout!
Noo Sou’ Wailsh ish pawned once more!
I’sh my turn to shout!
Lerrush spend while we’re in luck —
Nuncle mi’ get sick!
Mine’sh a re (hie) reproduc-
(Shoose me, gem’men) (hie) !
victoria.
DEN.


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
Estab.
1768
*
It
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OE THE PEOPLE.
“A WHITE AUSTRALIA
... and ...
"MACKIE’S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.
A GRAND DOUBLE.
r
W
, POORDA, SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
&
DT
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Forty Thieves.”
Palace “Wearing of the Green.”
Adelpiii “The Tenderfoot.”
Little Theatre “The Gay Lord Quex.”
Tivoli Mclntoshs Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan-Fuller’s Vaudeville.
Lyceum Silencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium & Olympia. West’s Pictures.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures.
White City Various Shows.
Prince Alfred Parr... Wirths’Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
ller Majesty’s “Come Over Here.”
King’s “What Happened to Mary.”
ID'Yai “Madame X.”
Princess's Harry Lauder.
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
The Very Reverend Arch-beditor apolo-
gises :—■
In my recent notices of “Joseph and His Brothers,”
I fear, my friends, that I have unwittingly done an
injustice to the seating accommodation of the Sydney
Theatre Royal.
Owing to the fact that the management considered
that a seat in the extreme corner of the dress circle,
and not even a scat-, but a chair that does not leave
room for archbeditorial legs, was the one most suit-
able to a critic of this paper, I have perhaps unduly
dwelt upon the impossibility of any person, clerical
or even lay, seeing any more than one-third of the
stage, and the, as far as I could gather, quite in-
nocuous play-acting thereon. I have said too much
about seat No. 59a. Moreover, I notice that an
artist has even drawn a picture of the view from that
seat, though I venture in all deference to suggest
that from my memory of the successive ladies in the
box, whose back view occupied so much of my front
view, she was much more charming than the artist
has drawn her. In thus saying so much about 59a,
I have done a regrettable injustice to seat la. This
seat, situated on the prompt side, exactly oppo-
site 59a, is just as bad. In fact, dear brethren, it
is worse. For from it the occupant has no view of
the temptation scene. Yet, in fairness to the man-
agement of the Theatre Royal, I am pleased to point
out that a member of the public, by booking these
seats, 1a and 59a, on successive nights, may get a
fairly good idea of what is happening on at least
two-thirds of the stage. That is, of course, if the
back view of whatever lady occupies the box is not,
in itself, more fascinating than the brown hand-
maiden nearest the footlights on the opposite side.
For those who want a play there is only
one theatre open just now in Sydney. For
those, that is, who do not desire pantomimes,
or American farces, or American musical
comedies, or Egyptian melodramas. At
the Little Theatre Reginald Wykeham’s
production of Pinero’s famous success, “The
Gay Lord Quex,” cleverly surmounts the
apparently insuperable difficulties of the
smallness of the stage at the Doll’s House.
The second act, the scene in an Italian
garden, by the Clints, suggests space in an
ingenious way; and though the third act,
the celebrated bedroom scene —indispensable
in all modern comedies —is slightly cramped,
the new setting of this scene is admirable.
The plot shows a reformed rake, in love
with the usual “creamy English girl.” He has
hapnily disposed of his former mistresses,
and has to be good in order to win the nice
girl. But one of his many “pasts,” a ro-
mantic duchess, insists on a farewell meet-
ing and a romantic good-bye. Naturally
enough, she arranges for this meeting to
take place in her boudoir at midnight.
Sophy Fullgarney, a common, good-hearted
manicurist, intervenes to save Muriel,
Quex’s fiancee, front the reformed monster.
She is caught looking through the keyhole
of the duchess’s door. Quex sends the duch-
ess out of the room, and, summoning Sophy,
locks the doors. Either the lady is to pro-
mise silence, or to be found on Lord Quex’s
premises in the morning, and have the ruins
of her good name carried out on a shovel.
The interest of this scene, which is prac-
tically the play, is heightened by all the
brilliant stage-craft of Pinero at his best.
Having got his “curtain,” the dramatist is
left with an improbable fourth act in which
to bring about the unconvincing happy end-
ing. As Sophy Fullgarney, Violet Paget
cleverly stresses the essential commonness
and the. equally essential kindliness of the
manicurist. It is a performance which,
though on a lower level than that of Mrs.
Brough at her best, is thoroughly convincing.
Esther Mitchell, as the “creamy English girl,”
gives a highly attractive performance, which
is a promise of even better things. Lilian
Lloyd is rather overweighted in the part
of the romantic duchess ; but her conception
of a difficult part is a quite probable one.
Tempe Pigott is a charming aristocrat. In
a comedy part of Sir Chichester Fraque
Arthur Cornell scores. The various young
girls at the twitter nicely.
The Elliott Savonas, aided and abetted by
numerous electric lights, blue costumes, a gor-
geous setting, and no end of musical instru-
ments or tools whose names this, writer
knows not, provide the most elaborate musi-
cal turn the Sydney Tivoli has lassoed for
a very considerable while. Samtern, a
Hebrew-Dago-French-English comedian. YV.
G. Fields, whose silent humor is delightful;
Bosa Roma, the violinist; and Vallecita’s
jeopards all help to make up an entertaining
programme.
The Bulletin’s Wild Kitten, who is
also its Circus Professor —being a person
closely acquainted with bears, wild cats and
bulls —reports that Wirths’ Circus No-Lia-
bility Co. has struck another gold mine at
Prince Alfred Park, Sydney, and its under-
ground manager states that if the crowd
which turns up nightly develops any further
round the middle level, the tent won’t hold
them. The casli-box is panning out at 255.
to the pound.
$ £c * *
Nothing in the way of a cataclysm has
arrived, which is as much as to say that
the pantomime at Her Majesty’s, Sydney,
continues to play to packed houses.
£: £: * *
Apparently Fred Niblo, at Sydney
Criterion, is never going to say die.
sis * * *
Sydney’s weekly moving-picture direc-
tory : —-
Crystal Palace : “A Day of Days,” being a “long
sequence of exciting episodes, a panorama of emotions
and a kaleidoscope of adventure” —in other words it's
a thrilling yarn founded on Asiatic fatalism.
Lyric : “The Air Torpedo,” wherein the foreign
spy, who steals a bundle of secret plans, finally gets
it in the neck.
Colonial : “Sherlock Holmes, No. s—-the5 —-the Reigate
Squires,” another of the made-to-order detective
stories that look small beside the doings of the Vic.
police.
Empress : “The Blue Rose,” or it might be Nose
(the type is bad), in which £l2OO is offered for
the cultivation of a blue rose (or nose), showing
that blue roses (or noses) are almost as expensive
as cabbages.
Lyceum: “In the Crater of Vesuvius,” which is
something new in the way of scenery.
West's Glaciarium and Olympia: “Atlantis,” an
Arctic yarn, containing the most sensational ship-
wreck scene to date.
# * * sje
“The Tenderfoot,” which opeued at Syd-
ney Adelphi on Saturday night, is described
as a musical comedy, but the musical part
of it almost drowns the comedy, and the
comedy, in its turn, practically smothers the
love yarn that runs through the play. In-
cluding several dances—each of which goes
off excellently—there are 25 musical num-
bers, and that, in a play of three acts,
sounds like overcrowding. Moreover,
though the choruses are distinctly good, the
solos, with one or two exceptions, are weak.
But it is quite evident that the company
includes some good people, who, with a less
musical comedy, would go splendidly. The
plot is based on the visit of a particularly
green professor to a Mexican town. There
he falls in love with an authoress ; likewise
the lady who owns the ranch falls in love
with a colonel, and by the time the show is
over everyone on the programme is in love
with everyone else. The strong point of the
whole show is the delightful way in which
Professor Zachary Pettibone' (Carrick
Major) deals out the humor. Pettibone is
the “tenderfoot” professor, and his mirth
keeps the whole thing moving; and besides
that he is one of the few exceptions to the
above remark about weak solos. Miss
“THE TENDERFOOT," AT THE
ADELPHI, SYDNEY.
The tenderfoot Professor (Carrick Major)
and the authoress (Grace Ellsworth) do the
“Dove and Crow ” dance.
Myrtle Jersey as Marion, the owner of the
ranch and the heroine of the piece, though
she would no doubt have a splendid voice
for a smaller theatre, is lost in the Adelphi,
and at times is quite inaudible. Bobby
YVoolsey, as Sergeant Barker, second in
command of. the foolery department, relies
mainly on his feet for his effects, and they
generally see him through. In addition
his faculty for tying his legs into fancy
knots helps him to score in the dances.
George Bogues, as the colonel, the hero and
the man who marries the heroine, passes a
pleasant evening making love with a rather
fine tenor voice and looking pretty in the
Texas Rangers uniform. Miss Grace Ells-
worth, as Flora Jane Fibbey, the authoress;
Miss Shirley Huxley (a local girl), as Sally
the maid ; and Miss Eva Olivotti, as Patsy,
each make a hit in their respective comedy
parts. The theatre on Saturday night
was as full as it could hold, and the assort-
ment of vegetable matter handed over the
footlights at the tail end of the show would
have stocked a flower shop.
COMPULSORY ACTORS IN "JOSEPH
AND HIS BREIHREN," AT THE
SYDNEY ROYAL.
If animals have the good sense to refuse to be
actors why force them to [?]opt the stage as a
profession? The camel and others have entered
a vigorous protest.
The management of the Imperial Dancing
Salon, or, as it chooses to label itself, the
Imperial Salon de Luxe, has drawn up its
code of ballroom ethics for the benefit of
Sydney’s Elite, etc. A few extracts
Gentlemen will on absolutely no occasion speak to,
or otherwise approach in the slightest way, any lady
to whom they have not been previously introduced.
Any lady having the slightest cause to complain
in this regard has only to inform any of our staff,
and without bringing her name or person into the
affair at all we will immediately eject the offender.
Only those dances which have received the sanc-
tion of polite society will be presented to our patrons.
Those only who are known to, or supposed by the
management to be acceptable to a majority of our
patrons, will be admitted. The most strict decorum
will be enforced at all times. The barriers which
separate one stranger from another will . be rigidly
maintained.
The Methodist Conference has given its ap-
proval of these safeguards, but has conceded
to the committee of public safety that in the
supper rooms a strange gentleman may re-
quest an unknown lady to pass the pickles,
provided two waiters are within earshot.
The chapel will be opened for service on
Monday evening, April 20 (invitation night).
Allen Doone came back to Erin, or as
much of it as could assemble in the Palace
(Sydney) on Saturday night. Talk about
McCarthy or any other parthy—they weren’t
in it with Doone when he wafted on stage
behind the smile he keeps for special occa-
sions. The play was “The Wearing of the
Green,” which —but no. Untamed jaguars
will tear no more description of that trivi-
ality from Tiie Bulletin. It was the same
piece, and, as far as the paper remembers,
the identical co.; likewise the acting was
similar and the scenery and the prices of ad-
mission were a dead beat with those in opera-
tion last time the show was in Sydney:—or
maybe it was the time before, or some other
occasion. Anyhow, everybody seemed satis-
fied, except the meagre usher who was
trampled underfoot in the scramble at the
entrance for the last vacant seat in the
house.
Sydney’s White City has been indulging
in a sort of country week, the great Bluegum
family having attended in encouraging num-
bers,. to get new thrills from the London
Door Mystery, the Fun Factory, the Aerial
Flight, the Crystal Tangle (not so good a
brand of tangle as they have at the Shearers’
Arms, Wayout, but not bad), the Scenic
Railway, the Caroussel and 50 others. xYn-
other carnival is due on the 22nd inst.
“The Poolroom,” Fred C. Hagan’s serinon-
ette from U.S. (whence the wise guys come),
is still the plaster at the National Amphi-
theatre (Sydney). Other features on the
stagescape are Carl Bentzen and Phyllis
Lawton, who cavort mightily in freak sara-
bands. The also-starters needn’t be • down-
hearted. Worse folk than them are at
large.
Adelaide’s reconstructed Royal got itself
open on Easter Saturday night, manager
Tallis being over to see the event through.
Pitt, of Sydney, was the architect, and the
contractor had three shifts of men on it
night and day for two months. Little has
been done to the stage end, but the audi-
torium is (of course) the best in Australia.
Comfort, ventilation and view-of-the : stage
are claimed to be the “limit.” “The Count
of Luxemburg” was the opening show. At
the Tivoli are tango experts and ragtime
experts, and lots of assorted dancing, and
the Homaz athletes. At the King’s are some
spectacular first-in-Australia Brennan-Fuller
turns that must be reserved for detailed
notice. The Dandies, who are in their last
open-air weeks, are announcing special pro-
grammes to compete with the Butterflies,
who, under Jack Waller, are already im-
mensely popular at the Town Hall, their
music being as good as their humor. West’s
Pictures are starring the Hodgson Burnett
tragedy, “A Lady of Quality,” but also take
care—as do Wondergraph and the rest —to
present early films of Oakbank Steeplechase.
Special chastened programmes were given
at most houses on Good Friday evening, but
the Tivoli was closed, and the King’s was
lent for a mission service.
A tender page from the history of a way-
back flapper, entitled “What Happened to
Mary,” was given a first reading at Mel-
bourne King’s last Saturday night. At the
outset of the proceedings Mary is living in
an atmosphere of slop clothes and decayed
fish on Moseses Island, where a calamity
named Peart and his comatose missus offi-
ciate as her uncle and aunt. Meanwhile an
aged mariner, by name Jogifer, acts as her
Trew Friend. Jogifer has a stiff leg and a
mass of Scriptural wisdom. In other words,
he has the imperceptiveness of a fragment
of cement. To his astonishment Mary clears
off to New York with dissolute young Henry
Craig. Henry proves a far too catholic-
minded lover for a girl who holds neither
with Mormonism nor with any of the various
nigger faiths that encourage polyandry.
Mary discovers Hen. telling the old, old tale
to a certain Miss Welch, and un-
hesitatingly hands him the bird. She thus
comes by the billet of typist to John Willis.
John proves presently that she is inno-
cent of theft and of all other charges;
also that she is a long-lost heiress.
What could any fair-minded girl do in the
circumstances but make the kindly fellow
responsible for her millinery bills? The
bellowdrama is in the hands of the Bert
Bailey co. Guv Hastings represents Willis
as one of those forceful, bustling persons
who go about banging doors and creating
needless draughts; Miss Elwyn Harvey’s
rendering of Mary is so charmingly modu-
lated that one doubts whether to accept it
as an impersonation or a piece of\music.
Bert Bailey seizes the role of JogifeXas a
pretext for humorous work, while Mary’s
deep-sea admirer, Tuck Wintergreen, ' is
merely Fred Macdonald’s Dave in “On Our
Selection,” republished, as it were, for the
Amurkan market. Edmund Duggan is
Craig senior, and sufficient unto the char-
acter is the Edmund thereof; Arthur Ber-
tram portrays a Yankee clerk ; while Craig
junior is played by It. Bellairs. Miss Bevan
as Mrs. Winthrop suffers somewhat from
colorlessness, but the other ladies are either
good or passable.
$ £: * *
Full details of the latest “Tragedy in the
Air” were published at Melbourne Olympia
last Saturday. It tells how a beauteous
dancer went up in a balloon and got in the
way of a flash of lightning. “The Uprising
of Ann” explains how a little harmless phil-
andering came to a horrible end. “The
Reward” is a mild Amurkan story full of
bandits bind and bullets. Parts of this
gentle Sunday-school yarn suggest an abat-
toirs on a busy day.
Melbourne had a new experience at the
Princess’s last Saturday. A vaudeville show
rather more effectively staged and orches-
trated than the ordinary, but still a mere
vaudeville show, was produced as an enter-
tainment calling for rare occasional prices.
A programme of spven turns —a company of
10 people in all —and a tariff of admission
ranging from 3s. to 10s. Qd. The Lauder
attraction filled the house, of course, but
Lauder was the last item on the bill, there-
fore the co. was practically required to keep
the audience satisfied with its investment
until the star came along to “cow the
cuddy” or “tak the scone.” With one ex-
ception these previous turns were fairly
equal to their awful responsibility. The
exception was a nice-looking lady who sang
a doleful Irish ballad concerning “ochone”
or something to that effect. She was a
striking non-success in comparison with the
three Hassons (whose clever performance
on the old, old wire seemed somewhat wire
drawn), and Irene Bercsenys, described as
a Hungarian Gypsy Cymbalist. Irene’s
cymbal is a mysterious instrument of the
harpsichord pattern, and she smites it with
toy drumsticks what time an eccentric gent,
in false saveloy ringlets, ambles to and fro
the wings with a violin accompaniment.
Three earlier turns had shown a larger pro-
portion of unquestionable merit. Jack Ark’s
dexterity with a diabolo outfit explained
why diabolo had the shortest life of any
parlor-game craze. It was really a business
for experts rather than a foolishness for
amateurs. Selwyn Driver, talker, singer
and pianist, was briskly entertaining, like-
wise Ernest Sewell, who, after rushing
through a series of sleight-of-hand tricks,
puts liis own face through the back cloth
of a marionette stage, and supplements his
smile with a pair of active toy limbs. Both
Driver and Sewell claim to have made mon-
archs laugh under royal command circum-
stances, and the writer is glad to hear it.
Himself was much amused by their efforts.
Given a throne to sit upon, he also' would
command them royally.
Harry Lauder lasted for about an hour,
including short intervals for changing liis
garments; and, apart from the time spent
in asking the audience to sit for a flashlight
photo., the hour passed quickly enough.
The quaint, abbreviated comedian changes
his manner and facial expression along with
his clothes, and even his violently pro-
nounced nationality is not allowed to grow
monotonous. There is'no Caledonian color
to speak of in Lauder’s cleverest creation —
“The Saftest of the Family.” His ridicu-
lously funny burlesque of a soldier in a kilt
and top-boots is built on Cockney humor
lines. Lauder has several sides, though
only one pair of legs, to his broad, artistic
character. Other comedians have been more
cannily Scawtch, but none of them won
the hairt o’ the whole Mac Sandy clan as
he did, because none of them had the per-
sonality, the homely humanity that appeals


THe World’s Best.
DAIMLER
Motor Lorry.
Silent Knight Engine.
Shaft Drive- —No Chains.
SDF
SUNSHINE
Motor Cars P*t*y
Melbourne.
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney & Adelaide,/
Sole
Agents.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Pitt & King Streets, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch : 50 Queen Street, Melbourne, g. j. fowler, Manager.
Queensland Branch : 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane, j. a. watson, Manager.
FIRE, ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
’Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
ro all men. Everything the rugged Harry
touches turns to Lauder. He seemed very
nervous at the outset on Saturday, never-
theless he soon began to remove the general
suspicion of disappointment. It was not
the charm of Lauder’s singing voice that
caught the audience. A lot of the richness
and volume of tone which helped to make
his fortune of yore was missing from his
warble on Saturday. Probably no man can
suck away continually at a huge pipe and
preserve "the beauty of his voice. More
probably Lauder ivas suffering from change
of climate and a long rest, and will be all
the better for getting to work again. Any-
how, it was the mon and the comedian more
than the singer who got hold of the first-
night audience and induced a number of
irreproachable citizens —mostly women —-to
join in the chorus of that famous. Rechahite
hymn, “A Wee Deoch and Doris,” before
the meeting closed.
"JOSEPH AND HIS
BRETHRENAT" AT
SYDNEY
ROYAL.
PHARAOH
(STUART
GARNER).
The Ada Reeve season at Melbourne
Tivoli began on Saturday afternoon, when
bunches of flags were fastened to the
theatre’s waistband — i.e., the front of the
d.c.—to mark the event. Melbourne, especi-
ally the less unintelligent half of it, is going
to be very fond of Ada Reeve once again.
The dainty girl of a while ago has developed
into a charming woman. She retains all the
original freshness of her voice, sings a good
assortment of nice, clean songs without
changing her costume, and patters with re-
fined art. The new co. that leads up to
the monologues of Ada is headed by Tucker,
a “singing violinist,” who also dances whilst
he fiddles, and introduces female impersona-
tion into his unduly long turn. Tucker is
a versatile young man, but not remarkably
clever in any department of his universal
emporium. Gilday and Fox supply what
the advt. calls the last word in Jewish
comedy, which is not necessarily the best
word. Russell Carr brings the military
haw-haw note into ventriloquism, and feeds
his poor little dummy figure with obvious
opportunities for easy repartee; the Creos
are acrobats, and the Golden Atlilones
differ from all previous plastic poseurs in
being gilded. Their most effective attitudes
are struck on either side of a clock, and
their performance leaves one in doubt as
to whether they got themselves gilded for
life, or are in the habit of washing it off.
* * * *
“Come Over Here” is still being played
with variations at Pier Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne. Also Daisy Jerome repeats her
performance of a live-wire comedienne, and
the dress-parade and Jack Cannot and the
thrilling sensation on the film remain as
before.
•5* v 6*
“Madame X” will sin and suffer until
Thursday next. Two nights later Niblo
returns to Melbourne Royal with “Never
Say Die.”
The third and last of Paul Dufault’s Mel-
bourne concerts is due at the Auditorium
to-night (Thursday), and the next three
Thursdays have been booked for piano re-
citals. Owing, perhaps, to a superstitious
musical reverence for the day. that has
lately been sacred to Tango Tea.
$ $ $
Melbourne Repertory Theatre will have
four seasons of Australian plays this year,
and these, as a matter of business necessity,
will be staged at St. Peter’s Hall, opposite
St. Pat’s Cathedral, on the Eastern Hill.
Gregan McMahon has learned from experi-
ence that the patriotism of the public in
general doesn’t yet run to the encouragement
of native dramatic literature, neither does
the patronage of the Very Best People tend
that way. The small literary circle which
will pay its half-crown for a night with
Australian authorship in Culture’s local
cause can be accommodated at St. Peter’s
Hall, a bright little building with a neat
staging equipment. The first performance,
on Saturday (25th), will introduce a curtain-
raiser—“La Femme Riante” —by Philip Ray
(Mrs, M. M. Philips) and a three-act play
by Alfred Buchanan, of the Age. Gregan
McMahon reckons that the double bill should
go very well, judging from rehearsal results.
* * * a*
“0.K.”: Melbourne’s resident vaudeville
managements, being confronted by the pre-
sence of a rival Revue at Her Majesty’s
and the prospect of the Lauder Variety
Co. at the Princess’s, seemed to lose
their heads in their anxiety to make a splash.
Firstly, the Fuller-Brennan management
started twice-nightly performances with a
bright new co. at the Bijou. This experiment
(which had been imported by an unsuccess-
ful Yankee exploiter some years previously)
lasted until Easter Saturday, when a daily
matinfie' was substituted for the early evening
show. Meanwhile the Tivoli had advertised
a forthcoming introduction of the two-shows-
a-night system as soon as Ada Reeve and a
new co. got to work. Handbills distributed
the Week before Easter repeated the allega-
tion that Ada Reeve, “the highest salaried
lady performer in the universe” (this
was- stated quite regardless of the high sal-
aries paid in Jupiter and the reckless scale
of wages-on some of the asteroids), would
play to two audiences a night “in conse-
quence of the fabulous expenditure entailed,
etc., etc.” The Bulletin took the news-
paper advts. and the handbill at their word
and stated in last issue that the Tivoli was
to be a two-shows-a-night theatre for the
present. But next day the Tivoli advt.
stated with due emphasis that Only One
Performance Nightly would be given. Pro-
bably Mclntosh and Fuller were unneces-
sarily concerned about the recent invasion
of their vaudeville domain. The unusual
variety shows serve as advts. for the old
established ditto. Lauder and the Revue
are introducing disconnected “music-hall”
entertainment to lots of people who have
never gone to either of the local halls, and
are making that sort of show more familiar
to a public that has very rarely gone to a
hall. There was no occasion for the Tiv.
and the Bijou to make those Announcements
Extraordinary concerning their goods. The
fact is their sort of goods was never before
so fashionable as the recent competition has
made it.
"MADAME X,"
AT MEL-
BOURNE
ROYAL
Eric Maxon as a
French bloke.
Merivel of the Confi-
dential Mission (Geo.
Chalmers).
Newspaper interviews im-
ported mummers carry their mßmrdity on the
face of them, as a rule. But when the artist
talks of a previous visit to the country she
is about to “star” in, the yarn has historical
interest for many readers. Listen to Ada
Reeve, telling a Melbourne Herald reporter
of how she came to this country 14 years ago :
“Oh” (laying an impulsive hand on the arm of
the interviewer’s chair), “I have much, very much,
to thank Australia for. I will never, never forget
the first time I played in this country. It was in
Melbourne that I made my debut. I was but a
girl in my ’teens. As I walked on the stage they
gave me a splendid reception. Tears filled my eyes.
I said to myself, ‘You dear people, I like you, I will
try to deserve your praise.’
“And the more I played the more I liked the
people, and I honestly think they liked me. I left
Australia a favorite. I owe much of my success to
Australia. I had not been back in England six
months before I was earning more pounds than I
had previously earned shillings. I must have learned
something in Australia. I cannot say what it exactly
was, but it was something.”
The reference to pounds and shillings in
these reminiscences seems rather rough on
the Williamson and Musgrove management,
and the Rickards management of yore. The
“Firm” imported Miss Reeve, and when she
appeared at the Melbourne Princess’s in “The
Gay Parisienne” (November, 1897) she was
billed as a London actress who had played
the name part for “upwards of 300 nights
at the Duke of York Theatre.” Subsequently
she appeared in “The French Maid”- and
the Christmas panto., and in September, ’OB,
she was a principal turn at Rickards’s Opera
House, the rival principal being Peggy Pryde.
The contrast between the dainty, chic style
of Ada and the broad “what-ho” manner of
Peggy was very marked. After the engage-
ment with Rickards the little lady went back
to England, where, within six months, she
was earning more than 20 times as much
salary as she was paid in Australia, she
says. Query—what salaries did Ada Reeve
draw in Australia?
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Melb”: Howlers ever increased Show prices.
Williamson Ltd. state that the new log rates for
working staffs issued three years ago increased the
wage list over £15,000 a year, further increases
under two recent agreements will add £6OOO or
£7OOO, making total increase of over £21,000. I
expect the public to rise, with the baits, and justify
the stiffening. Lauder is pitched high, by the laits,
at 3s. for the cheapest seat. In London the ten-
dency is to go down. Lauder could be heard, at
South London Music Hall, for 5d., with cushioned
seat, and for 6d. at the Colosseum. Some halls give
cushioned seats for 2d., with good artists. Melba at
Covent Garden for 2s. 6d„ and in concerts for Is.
Some of these up-country showmen are not too
slow. T’other day the manager of the new Goulburn
Majestic hurried out 34 miles to meet Miss Waugh,
the girl who rode from Melbourne to Sydney bare-
back, and persuaded her to appear at his theatre the
same night. That was her only appearance on a stage
during the journey.
The allegations of Catts, M.P., re the influence of
his mother-in-law in his domestic affairs, remind one
of an American farcical comedy wherein George
Willoughby of yore played the troubled husband.
Said his young wife tearfully: “When we married*
vou promised that I should be your Queen. Cei-
tainly,” replied Willoughby, in his heartiest commer-
cial tone. “You were to be the Queen, and I was to
be the King; but we never agreed that your mother
was to come along and be the Ace.”
According to the U.S. press General Villa is having
flicker films made depicting his march from the Rio
Grande to the City of Mexico. He has a big interest
in the co. which is running the venture, and ex-
pects to do well, as two of the reels are already being
shown in N’York to vast houses. This gives Villa
the distinction of being the first man to realise the
possibilities of war from the legitimate business
standpoint. After all, the Mexican mix-up was
engineered merely to make a Noo Yark holiday!
From London: This city prides itself on being
immensely up to date, and for the revival of “The
Tyranny of Tears” (doing well under Ethel Irving, at
the Comedy), Haddon Chambers was bidden to look
through it and cut out any approach to a soliloquy or
an “aside.” Yet the artificial old “Diplomacy” is
having the success of its life —literally, for when
first produced in 1878 it ran only 325 times, which
number was passed weeks ago by its present run at
Wyndham’s. King George has sent for it to come to
Windsor Castle ; he has old-fashioned tastes, and has
personally selected “The Silver King” for this year’s
show in aid of the Actors’ Pension Fund, named
after himself. “Diplomacy” is now being toured in
the country, and in the big suburban theatres which
are such a feature of modern London. Marie Tem-
pest, also, is revivaling with her old success, “The
Marriage of Kitty.” So is Tree with “The Darling of
the Gods,” which he cynically told an interviewer
he had chosen because it was the nearest thing to a
revue he had in stock. The successful new plavs—
barring the musical—are Arnold Bennett’s “Great
Adventure,” and the American “Within the Law” —
foolishly translated into English. Both are well on
towards the 400-nights mark.
“Norbell”: I am willing to wager that fully a
ton and a half of the two tons of whiskerings
which disfigure Joseph’s brethren and friends were
imported. Foreign producers doubt Australia’s
ability to evolve even bird’s-nest effects. When Nat
Goodwin came here, he imported all his junk, and
the stage properties he paid freight on included
several bags of scrao-iron required for scattering
round the stage as vivid local color in a black-
smith’s shop scene.
The return of Dorothy Vane to the stage is seri-
ously predicted. It is said that when the Combine
revives “The Mikado” in the winter, the revival
will include the little lady who was imported to
Australia with “La Poupee” of yore. She left the
stage to become Mrs. Norman Menzies, of Melbourne’s
tony hostelry, and except for a very occasional
appearance at a charity mat. she has been off the
stage ever since.
Seems that the young man (Bellbridge) who played
the part of Floriot junior on the first night only of
“Madame X,” at Melbourne Royal, occupied the
claim of young man (Ward) who stood ready to go
en. Both of them were given the part to study •
after the original selection (Pearce) had fallen sick.
But Ward was number 1 understudy. Bellbridge being
expected to wait patiently for the other fellow to get
sick. The management had no suspicion of B.’s
splendid enthusiasm, or he would have been chained
up, no doubt. As it was, he dissembled his deep
intent until the moment for Ward’s entrance was
almost due, and then he rushed on, hurled himself
into the character and remained there to the bitter
end. It might not be usual but it was magnificent.
“0.K.”: A last week’s Poverty Pointer speaks of
Sarah Bernhardt having been as thin as a lath and
meatless as a bone 20 years ago. > Say 45 to 35
years ago. It was in 1891 that the Divine Sarah
came to Australia, and she was then pleasingly
plump, though not at all fat. The arms which she
stretched out like semaphores in acknowledgment of
her audience’s greeting were shapely winsome limbs,
quite capable of tender embrace. The days when it
was dangerous to be folded to her breast on account
of her sharpness all round had gone for ever in 1891.
Sarah Bernhardt, remember, is a Jewess with a
wonderful appetite for food. It used to be said
that she made nothing of eating 12, hard-boiled eggs
during a rehearsal at the theatre. Even her abnormal
nervous energy couldn’t keep her skinny after she
had turned five and thirty. -'*■
Are any pipers’ bands and receptions being pre-
pared for Ellen Terry, now en route to Australia?
Thusfar no glowing managerial announcements of
the imminent advent of Ellen have appeared
in Melbourne’s press, although it is understood
that her tour will be started in that city.
No resident representatives of showmanship
are concerned in it, seemingly. Hence the bursts of
silence up to now. But when Ellen Terr3' comes to
hand her name, doubtless, will make good. She
was a celebrity before Lauder was born, or any
other visiting “star” of the moment was thought of,
and she has kept her celebrity going all the time.
Playing in comedy of late years her memory was
apt to play tricks. The horn of the prompter was
heard on the wing. But as a platform artist, lec-
turing and reciting and witching the audience with
her manner, Ellen will have notes to refer to, and if
the charming old comedy queen fails to grab Aus-
tralian womanhood by the wool—well, the sex’s
fondness for Lily Brayton in Shakspearian
plays will seem unaccountable. Presumably the
Women’s League and the Immortal Bard societies
will lead the way in fussing over Ellen Terry. She
stands for classic drama, art culture and unmilitant
suffragettery. Her theatrical record dates back to
the days of Charles Kean, for it was under his man-
agement she made her stage d6but as the child
Mamilius, in “A Winter’s Tale.” That was in 1856,
and she was then an eight-year old kiddie. As a 10-
year old she played Prince Arthur in “King John,”
with the Keans. Her famous impersonation of Portia
is just 39 years young this month. Her first appear-
ance in an ingenue heroine part happened 51 years
ago, when she was a girl of 15, and Edward Sothern
was the leading man of the co. Ellen Terry has no
sordid, shabby theatrical recollections. From her
childhood upwards she was always a shining light
among the Best People in mummery—the spoilt
darling of the stage, like her sister Kate before her.
No stagewoman has been more unaffectedly artistic
than this charming exponent of theatrical natural-
ness. The charm is still hers. Age has not withered
it. Age has merely harmonised it with the artist’s
years. If the long sea voyage refreshes her, people
will wonder at the vivacity of Ellen Terry, and
whatever she does for an entertainment will be a
success. But where is she going to do it?
“Harrison O.”: “Bookware” (B. 9/4/’l4) protests
with amusing seriousness that the impishness of G. B.
Pshaw “spoilt” the mock trial, held in London, of
John Jasper, for the murder of Edwin Drood. “Book-
ware” is angry, because, he says, it was meant that
the trial should be a “solemn and genuine attempt
to decide what Dickens had intended his unfinished
story to be.” Seems to me that it is somewhat late
in the day to discuss the intention of C. Dickens in
the matter, especially since it is of no importance.
Shaw, as foreman of the jury, transformed a piece of
solemn humbug into a matter for joy and mirth.
F’rinstance, his remark, made when it was proposed by
counsel to call certain evidence: “If the learned
gentleman thinks that the minds of a British jury are
going to be influenced by evidence he little knows his
countrymen,” was worth several hours of debating
society tomfoolery such as those present were threat-
ened with.
“Melb”: Goodbye to “The Forty Thieves,” but
we have the doctors of Collins-street East still left.
This was the third “Forty Thieves” panto, in Mel-
bourne. The first was with Greville as Ali Baba at
the Royal. The second had Lonnen as Ali Baba, at
the Princess’s. The sale just effected of Fawkner’s
original property is a reminder of the best panto,
ever seen here: “The House that Jack Built, or the
Loves of Jack Melbourne and Little Victoria.” This
was in 1869, after Fawkner’s funeral. Jack was
Fawkner, and his house was Melbourne. What a
happy idea. Can such enter the wooden brains of
Hickory Wood and such as furnish us with printed
goods from England? In the 1869 panto., written
by Akhurst, Harwood was Jack, and Maggie Stewart
took Victoria, Nelly being then a chicken. A fea-
ture was Hennings’s magnificent panorama of the
history of Melbourne.
Lauder has been doing some theatre-haunting.
One night he went to “On Our Selection,” but did
not grasp the humor until some time during the
second act. Then he laughed and kept on laughing.
Better late than never. On Thursday night he
taxied round to the Tivoli and appeared unexpect-
edly in a box. The various turns began to play
spasmodically and every performer’s eye was turned
hopefully upwards. Once “the highest salaried”
laughed outright, and the artist thus honored be-
came boisterous with joy. If Harry had laughed
again the performer would probably have gone dotty
with joy and thrown himself into the piano.
“Haresfoot”: Before me is a small book of rather
melancholy interest. It is the version of Hugo’s
“Ruy Bias,” written by the unfortunate suicide, John
Davidson, for Lewis Waller, and acted by Waller in
London. It is compact and vivid to read, by those
who cannot struggle through Hugo’s interminable
length. This magnificent play had Lemaitre for the
original Ruy Bias—a tremendous success, although
Lemaitre had only been regarded as a melodramatic
actor, in “Robert Macaire,” “Ragpicker of Paris”
and the like. Dickens wrote in the most enthusiastic
terms of Fechter’s Ruy Bias. The play has only been
produced in Melbourne twice. First by George Faw-
cett Rowe at the old wooden matchbox Princess’s,
when he acted Ruy Bias. The second occasion was
when Darrell presented a version of his own at the
Theatre Royal. Both Rowe and Darrell cut the piece
short. Anyhow, it is much finer than anything Waller
has acted, as leading man, except “Henry V.” One
of my grumbles against Sarah Bernhardt’s Legion of
Honor is that, in her starring time, she acted nothing
of Corneille, Racine, Moliere, or Hugo, except
Racine’s “Phedre ” very occasionally. At the theatre
Franqais she had been resplendent in the Dona Sol
of Hugo’s “Hernani” and the Queen in “Ruy Bias.”
Don Cssar de Bazan appeared first in Ruy Bias.
Then Dennery made him the hero of his brisk comedy,
adapted for Wallace’s “Maritana.”
“C. Ockney”: Oswald Stoll, the Melbourne-born
entrepeneur, who for so long has been at the head
of vaudeville in Britain, has a useful sort of mother.
She takes, and has for years taken, the money at the
door of the London Coliseum—the Stoll palace in
Charing Cross-road. She takes pride in the fact
that at most of the theatres which her son had
opened she had taken the first money at the doors. No
wonder Stoll has succeeded. The opening of Life’s
oyster would be a comparatively easy job if we
could all, in a manner of speaking, get really reliable
mothers to take the money at the door.
LINES TO ELIZABETH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lizzie, the blood-sweating hippopotamus, is in town
with Wirths’ Circus —Social news item.
Sweat no more, my pretty dear!
Ah, sweat no more, my sweet!
The Autumn days are fresh, and here
Are lots of things to eat!
Ah, vex yourself r.o more, my dear,
And banish vain regret;
I’d have your dear complexion clear —
Unless you want to sweat.
Sweat no more, my gracious queen!
Perspire no more, my dear.
For oh! it dims thy hide’s bright sheen,
And I would have it clear.
What sorrow wrings thy hippo heart
Come, break the dreadful news!
(I would thy heart’s blood would not start
In purple beads of ooze!)
Sweat if thou must, but inwardly,
For blood I can’t abide!
Alas! the people pay to see
Her heart’s blood on her hide!
N.S.W.
RICHARD LOVELACE.


mi
rn
Enjoy Your Shave
by using a
“SIMPLEX”
SAFETY RAZOR.
If you use a “Simplex” you are assured of a clean,
easy shave, without any trouble whatever. The
blades being interchangeable, a sharp one
can be adjusted at any moment. Price
5/-
The “Simplex” outfit includes the nickel-plated Razor, six superior steel blades, finely ground and
set ready for immediate use, enclosed in neat leatherette case. Extra blades can be supplied for
1/6 per packet of 5.
SAVE YOUR DULL BLADES. —'You can have them resharpened and made as keen as new, simply
by posting them to us. Any make of wafer blades can be resharpened for 1/- dozen.
Sent Carriage Paid throughout Australia.
DAVID JONES, LTD.
Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
' s ■»
t r
M
Kugelmann’s
Pure Herbal
Skin Soap.
“Beauty's Aid.”
Free Sample sent on Receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap may be ob-
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box of three large
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send Postal Note
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- (includ-
ing postage), when box will be posted per return
mail. ...
Solo Proprietors:
H. E. KUOELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; Pitt Street,
SYDNEY; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
SAME OLD DRINK.
The Government would be responsible for decen-
tralisation—more ports would be opened.
N.S.W. Assistant Treasurer Hoyle.
N.S.W.: “ H’m! More dope."
The suburban passenger bound for Sydney
has developed a new habit. After much
lame delay and famine and backwardness,
and many of the labors of Sisyphus, his
train is finally bailed up in the old bottleneck
tunnel just outside Sydney station. Then
to fill in time he gets out and writes inscrip-
tions on the wall, saying that he is Pharaoh,
and that the train started from Memphis
1000 b.c. To this he adds a sketch of a
pyramid and a cry for the blood and bell-
topper and boots of Johnson. Having done
thus he either gets back into the train, or
walks along the line in defiance of the regu-
lations. Sydney station is being amended
and enlarged, so part of the premises are in
hospital. If it belonged to a railway which
went right through the city, so that the sub-
urban train ran from, say, Homebush to
Wahroongah, it would only be necessary to
hustle a little, and push the trains through
faster. But when a station is a dead end,
and every train that goes in has to back out
again, the fact that three or four platforms
out of the usual 14 are laid up for amputa-
tion makes chaos. It is possible to habitu-
ally drive 14 tame elephants into a cave
without confusion if there is an outlet at the
far end of the cave and the animals can go
straight on, and sort themselves out in the
open country for the return journey. If the
cave comes to a dead stop, and the elephants
have to back out tail first, careful manage-
ment is required to prevent annoyance and
dislocation. But if half the cave is closed
for repairs, and the elephants get all mixed
up inside, and back out anyhow, there is
sure to be a very bad mixture of elephant.
The A.N.A. in Adelaide, at its coming con-
ference, undertakes to discuss—sandwiched
in with encouragement to local industries,
afforestation, swimming, a uniform railway
gauge, and locking the Torrens —about tlie
vaguest motion on record: “That this Associ-
ation is in favor of greater encouragement of
‘real sport’ among young Australians, as it is
the best means of developing a healthy
national character.” Now unreal sport con-
sists naturally of a Hebrew chasing a pig in
a dream, but the real article is hard to define.
“0.K.” speaks—as in a whisper darkly :
Melbourne’s most Pankhurstian associated women
made a bid for notoriety last week by attempting, in
a mildly turbulent way, to introduce the question
of “White Slave Traffic” to the State Premiers. They
had no chance of getting serious consideration, and
they knew it. The W.S.T. question had previously
been referred to the local police, and the police
had said there was no such thing to be found here-
abouts. Melbourne was the worst possible place for
the angry females to make a demonstration in.
They were wasting time and energy, as is the habit
of indignant feminines, with the result that they
have brought their cause into disrepute. What
they should now set about is the collection of evi-
dence in support of their cause. If they keep their
eyes and ears, open and their dear little mouths
shut; if they get into touch with non-political
women who go around and gather hews in their or-
dinary way of business, these unpractical Pank-
hurstiennes might presently be in a position to prove
that a number of unsuspecting girls are lured to
brothels by nice kind ladies in Melbourne, although the
police are quite sure that nothing of the sort takes
place. This is hardly what the world understands
by the term “White Slave Traffic,” which suggests
the capture and shipment of girls to distant places,
or the entrapping of them by fraudulent advts.
But it is presumably what the Melbourne Pank-
hurstiennes meant when they were getting their
hair off last week. Their meaning, however, is a
matter of no consequence just now, seeing that
nobody is paying any attention to them. They must
do something to compel attention if they mean busi-
ness, and they must do it darned quietly. If they
don’t know what they ought to do let them seek
instruction from a wicked man. The writer would
just love the job of making them wise, over a cup of
tea and a muffin.
* * * #
As a result of argument between certain
Melbourne poulterers and poultry exporters
and their organised “pluckers,” the debilitated
chooky-hen and the young spring chicken
destined to adorn the dinner-table at Easter
time enjoyed a few more days’ life and
another bushel or two of shell-grit—or what-
ever it is the beasties eat. According to
the evidence available, the gentlemen who live
by tearing the clothing off poultry placed
before their employers a log, claiming in-
creased wages and better working conditions,
and requested a conference, failing which
they would strike at the critical moment,
just before Easter. The employers con-
ferred, refused to concede the demands as
per log, and offered the employees their
united co-operation to secure a Board to
rectify trade grievances, fix wages, etc. —
which offer was to be accepted instanter or
it would be withdrawn. Both parties being
thus evidently in the humor for a fight, the
offer - was declined and war began. One
party—beside the above-mentioned chooky-
hen—gained by this “industrial upheaval,”
the small suburban poulterer, who does his
own plucking. When he attended the Easter
poultry market he found that prices had
naturally dropped to zero, so he gathered in
as large a harvest as his pocket would
allow. But, except for him, nobody seemed
to gain anything, or anything that a Wages
Board couldn’t have given. Still, the hen-
strippers may have wanted a rest. Pulling
feathers is a tedious, mechanical, unintellec-
tual job; and to keep at it year after year
would naturally make a man cantankerous
and hasty-tempered.
A COOLNESS FOLLOWED.
STOUT BUT PROUD MOTHER : “Oh, yes! He's inherited the characteristics of both his
parents —his mother's in particular."
ABSENT-MINDED FRIEND: “Quite a chip off the old block, eh!"
By the recent arrest of a youth ’o the act
of scaling a warehouse wall the Melbourne
police ninoed in the bud a career that was
full of promise. An inventory of the scaler’s
personal possessions panned out: One six-
chambered revolver, fully loaded; one revol-
ver case bearing the stamp of the Kilmore
police; one large butcher’s knife; one steel
for sharpening same; one electric torch;
one onium pipe; a watch and chain,
the latter bearing a ’Varsity Sports
Club medal; several foreign coins; some
brummy jewellery, and a numbgf of
door-keys. The axe and the, keg of dyna-
mite, and the bottle of prussic acid, and the
bag of lime for incinerating the remains, are
believed to have been concealed by the enter-
prising young fellow just before his capture.
“Albatross”: Regarded as a hoodoo ship
the Dunmore is a mere child by comparison
with the Mintaro (one time Larnaca), late
of the Adelaide Steamship Co. When
“Archie” Paul commanded this vessel it
camped for a night on the south breakwater
at Newcastle. Under “Billy” Butcher it
sped on to Stony Point —also off Newcastle.
It next collided with the Nymboida, and
caused Captain Ville’s certificate to be sus-
pended. Later it sank the Falcon tug, in
the Port Adelaide River, causing Captain
“Bill” Leiper a ton of trouble. Captain
Barnes had his “bit of parchment” smudged
through its assault upon the Spitfire bank in
Moreton Bay. And, finally, the writer of
this par. was in charge when it argued the
point with the Wairuna in Sydney Harbor.
Add to the above a whole host of casual
bumps into piers, wharves, etc., and you get
a very remarkable record. There are but
two things I care to recall nowadays in
connection with the wretched old craft. (1)
It never caused a death ; (2) it was recently
destroyed.
* * * *
Paris Nesbit, K.C., brought off a coup last
week, of the kind that gets into books about
“Good Stories of Bench and Bar.” He was
defending another Adelaide lawyer charged
with “converting” £lO. Nesbit’s cross-exam-
ination took this form :
Before Lunch:
Is it a fact that you have always looked on the
£lO as a debt due from him to you?—Yes.
And have always been willing to accept it? —Yes.
Would you accept it now? —Yes.
Is it by your desire that this prosecution was
brought ? —No.
After Lunch:
Since giving your evidence has the debt been paid
to you?—Yes.
Who paid it to you?—You did!
Judge Murray interposed with a hope that
Mr. Nesbit had not committed the “unprofes-
sional act” of paying the money out of his
own pocket, and was assured that he hadn’t.
After which the puzzled jury said it couldn’t
agree on a verdict if it “stayed there for a
week.”
Tbe Oldest Inhabitant: One of the most
notable drinkeries in Melbourne —-Young and
Jackson’s, on the corner of Flinders and
Swanston streets —has just changed hands.
It was originally a butchery, kept by James
Graham, who subsequently established him-
self in Sydney. Early in the ’6o’s it became
a pub, under the name of Princes Bridge
Hotel, and the habit grew upon it. Young
and Jackson have kept the pumps going for
80 years. John Batman originally owned
the site.
THE MELON JAG.
The Cassaba is to be the melon of the future. It
carries a flavor which is indescribable. It suggests
pineapple, guava, water and rock melon. One lady
taster whistled and almost shouted; it reminded
her of champagne.— Sydney Agricultural Show item.
Hey! Come an’ have a bite, o f oy,
An whisky you'll e scorningl
Just cut yourself a slice o' joy,
An' don't go home till morning!
The Oldest Inhabitant makes no mention
of a pub:—
Last week a bit of historic Sydney changed hands
when the building owned and occupied by Batt, Rodd
and Purves, in Pitt-street, was sold to Messrs. W. C.
Penfold, stationers, of the same street. The site was
originally the property of Sam Terry, and the five
or six houses on and adjoining the site were known
as Terry’s Building. In the most northern one the
Public Library, then a private subscription concern,
had its genesis. The Batt-Rodd Purves building,
which occupies 22 feet, was valued at £4OOO and the
land at £16,000, which works out at about £727
per foot.
THE PEOPLE OF PEACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Professor Starr Jordan said that the belief in an
invasion by Japs which had begun the White Aus-
tralia policy was the work of scoundrels.
—Melbourne Age report.
Miss Gibbs, a Quakeress, was fined £lO or two
months imprisonment, for having thrashed a police-
man with a dog-whip as a protest against the latest
incarceration of Mrs. Pankhurst.— Cablegram.
Sons of Quaker members of the Peace Society are
pleading immunity from compulsory service for reasons
of conscience.— Melbourne Age.
From the land where they dare not refuse the Jap
Starr comes to teach us how—
From the land where the ’Murkan maiden sits in
school with the slant-eyed Chow —
He comes to teach us that knuckling down is the
way to perfect peace,
And that he who possesses a willing arm is speeding
his own decease.
He comes to say that a people rich and few, if they
remain but so,
Are sure of peace with a people poor and strong from
Tokio.
From the Hell that is called Chicago he comes with
his drone and his sappy head,
Full of schemes to make the world a heaven —when
all now alive are dead.
And he and the shirkers of drill are one —-and their
mother is Our Miss Gibbs,
. The Quaker maiden who thrashed the cop and was
charged before his Nibs.
And the Christians who beat one another sore and
fight for the love of God,
And are brothers most when they tear the turf and
ensanguine the poor Ould Sod.
He fights with his mouth so bravely—this same bar-
racker for “Peace,”
His munitions of war are words like “Fools” and
“Scoundrels” ; his shot is grease.
Professor Jordan who starred and burst when he asked
our land to show
By its long, drugged sleep that it loves and trusts the
strangers of Tokio.
If the Quaker shirk his drill because of his conscience
white and pure,
And the Quakeress for her conscience beats the cop who
must aye endure,
And the man who defends the world’s best land is a
scoundrel and a fool,
Then the padded cell’s a Professor short—and they’ll
find him at the school.
The Californian school-girl learns cheek by jowl
with the small, brown Jap,
And Columbia bows to the alien man and takes the
Chow in her lap.
But, though scoundrels or fools or utter rogues, who’d
fight for their own, we be,
Australia’s legions shall not decrease while Jordan
runs to the sea.
VICTORIA.
MARTIN LUTHER.


THE FORM OF ILL-HEALTH THAT MOST
PREVAILS IN AUSTRALIA.
We are told that the consumption of medi-
cine is greater in Australia than in any other
country, and this must be attributed to an
unsatisfactory condition of health affecting a
large proportion of our people. What then
is the prevalent form of ill-health ? All indi-
cations point one way—to the fact that the
average person suffers most frequently from
some disorder of the digestive functions, which
might be easily corrected by the right kind of
treatment. Modern medical authorities teach
us that most of our common ailments have
their origin in the digestive area. In a word,
we poison ourselves (autointoxication) by
absorption from the intestinal tract. To over-
come this condition, the best remedy is
petroleum, because unlike other remedies, it
reaches the intestines unchanged, where it
exercises its lubricating, anti-fermentative,
healing effects to the fullest extent. The
original and standard preparation of petroleum
for internal use is Angier's Emulsion, which
has been largely employed by the medical
profession ever since 1892. Apart from its
soothing, healing properties, Angier’s Emulsion
(because of the hypophosphites which it con-
tains) exerts a marked tonic, invigorating
influence which makes it of value in a wide
variety of disorders. Doctors prescribe it
largely, not alone for lung troub'es and wasting
diseases, but even more for digestive and bowel
disorders. Very good results have followed
its use in the treatment of, gastric catarrh,
gastric ulcer, mucous colitis, nervous dys-
pepsia, chronic constipation, and in many
obscure digestive and bowel disorders that
have resisted other treatment. Of all chemists
at 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
Do you shave yourself? If so you can
get the best results by using a Diamond Edge (brand)
razor; price 7s. 6d. and 10s. 6d. each, postage 6d.
extra. Also sole agent for Apex Hair Restorer, a
true hair-grower, 4s. 6d. and 12s. 6d. a bottle. Sup-
plied only by T. Wild, 30 Sydney Arcade, Sydney.*
Dinner-Jacket Suits
For the Social Season.
Our Ready-to-wear Dress Clothing has been
brought to such a high standard in materials
and cutting that it may be worn with full
confidence to any social function.
We illustrate a Dinner Jacket JSuit of Black
Diamond-dyed Cashmere Twill. It is cut in
the latest style, with peaked lapels and best
linings and silk facings.
The material is absolutely color-fast, and of
a soft texture that quickly conforms to the
figure line.
Full Suit, £3/12/6. Coat only, 45/-
Please state chest,' waist and inside leg
Measurements.
Patterns and Catalogue on request.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.
Men's Outfitters,
309 & 311 George St., Sydney
u
i
»
it' I®
77 iff
'SIB
An eerie tale of human credulity was re-
counted at the Central Court (Sydney) by
one Margaret Slack the other day. Three
months ago she met a young man named
Moloney. The fact that his name was
Moloney was all she knew about him, and
she only had his word for that. He wanted
to know the address o.f a good hospital, and
she, being a nurse, was able to oblige him.
Then, according to her story, he began to
lie. And she, like Desdemona, believed every
word he said. He told her —if she is to be
believed —that he was the owner of a big
racing establishment in the West; that he
owned the Belmont stables; that Mr. Con-
nelly was his trainer and Silver Lad
and Plastine his property. He also
mentioned that he owned the Palace
Hotel in Perth (W.A.), and about
a dozen other big pubs and businesses. Inci-
dentally, he is, alleged to have remarked
lightly that he was worth three or four
hundred thousand sterling. And during all
this time, if the lady’s story is correct, he
was borrowing from her sums such as 10s.,
fl and £2 12s. 6d. She claims that, in the
end, she lent him not only all the money
she had in her banking account but every
farthing she could raise on her home. The
episode constitutes a dreadful reflection bn
her intelligence, assuming her account of
it is true. It presents her as the ultimate
limit in the way of that faith which can
throw away mountains. On the other
hand, the whole affair may be a hallucina-
tion on the part of the lady, and Moloney,
who now stands committed for trial, may
be one of the most ill-used men in N. S.
Wales. You can never know in these matters
till the legal numbers go up.
* * * *
Melbourne had a goodly crop of breach-of-
promise actions at the recent sittings. One
distracted female got £4OO and another £225
out of gentlemen who had gone cold on their
matrimonial bargains. Also, a refrigerated
lover, who had fallen in for £lOO but had
paid nothing, was ordered to part up 10s.
weekly out of a wage of £126 per annum, or
go to quod. The £4OO victim told the jury
that though the plaintiff had kissed him fre-
quently and fervently he had never done the
same kind office by her. The jury’s opinion
of this story may be estimated by the dam-
ages awarded —a cryptic remark which the
reader may take whichever way he likes.
COALS TO NEWCASTLE.
“I never see you buzzing round with that red-
haired fellow now. What's happened?"
“ Him! Oh, he's married."
“Go on! Who married him?"
“I did."
The £225 plaintiff provided the phenomenon
of a lady who stated on oath that at the age
of 28 she had never been kissed. Take it for
all in all, this jurisdiction provides as many
incredibilities as the Divorce industry.
The Bulletin’s Court correspondent dis-
courses :
Lady Randolph Churchill has got her divorce
from Mr. George Cornwallis West. Their marriage,
13 years ago, exasperated the members of the
Churchill and West families in about an equal
degree. West’s sisters —one is the Duchess of
Westminster, the other the Princess Pless —ex-
hausted all the arts of persuasion, badinage, ridi-
cule, chaff, scorn, reproach and downright rage
and fury in the hope of averting the calamity.
The bridegroom’s mother, who, up to this event
had been reckoned the most capable matchmaker
in London, retired in despair to Wales. Her
medical advisers opined that had she stayed in
London while the matrimonial sacrifice was being
accomplished she would have burst. Mr. West was
in his early twenties at the time, and in
appearance younger than his years. Like all his
family, he is astonishingly good-looking. Lady
Randolph had a couple of grown-up sons, one of
whom —Winston—was already forging ahead in the
political world.' She was close on 50, and looked
every minute of it. The young man’s second choice
is no immature girl, either. She owns up to 50,
but such things, in the case of actors, actresses and
pugilists, mean little. It must be 25 years since I
first saw her in melodrama at the London Adelphi,
and to my boyish eyes she looked an elderly woman
then. Like Lady Randolph, she has been beautiful
in her 'time ■ and, also like the Churchill lady, she
is exceptionally clever and original. Clement Scott,
the dramatic critic, who was so scandalised at Ib-
sen’s plays, loved her with one of those wild, hope-
less passions that occasionally afflict aggressively
respectable persons of middle age. However, she
spurned him. There is no clear reason why two
distinguished women should make fools of them-
selves over Mr. West. He is tallish, slight, the
possessor of small, regular features and beautiful,
wavy hair. And that is all there is to him. If
he had not made a couple of sensational marriages
no one, outside London Society, would know that
he was alive.
# * * *
“T.F.M.” writes: —
“Melb” (in B. 2/4/’l4, page 11, col. 1) errs when
he states that “Batman’s first house was on
the Collins and William streets corner now occupied
by the Australian Mutual Provident building.” That
is, if he means that Bat’s first dwelling-place was
on this site. • On the A.M.P. edifice are the words,
“John Batman, founder of Melbourne, built on this
spot.”. So he did, but he never lived there. The
inscription must have been drafted by a lawyer—
or perhaps by one of our great statesmen. Why,
even one of Melbourne’s great dailies was so misled
by that inscription as to declare not long since that
the Collins and William streets corner was
identical with the historic Batman’s Hill. Bat-
man bought the land in question in June, 1837, for
£6O, and on it built a two-storeyed structure which,
after his decease, was occupied for a time by his
family. He himself lived while in Melbourne in
the house he erected on Batman’s Hill. Also he died
there. He' didn’t make a hobby of dying, but he did
it once.
* * * *
“Sherlock Holmes”: Heaven only knows
why they are called “detectives,” but that is
how the pathetic Victorian plain-clothes
policemen are described whenever there is a
mystery to be deepened and a criminal to be
totally lost. When they are not posing
before newspaper cameras they are going
about the country mak-
ing a noise like a cir-
cus, and publicly de-
manding to be supplied
with clues. People
can’t work for the up-
roar they create, and
valuable advertise-
ments are crowded out
of the newspapers be-
cause the fact has to
be announced that they
are going to Duck-
waddle Swamp by the
5.45 train from Spen-
cer-street, and are
proceeding with the
utmost secrecy. It’s
all rank bellowdrama,
and the acting is of a
very inferior sort.
Then, of course, they
never discover any-
thing—not even the
fact that they are pub-
lic nuisances and dis-
turbers of the peace.
Victorians just hate to
have a quiet visit from
criminals, because that
brings down on the
house a tribe of actors
who proceed with such
deafening secrecy that
the victim can’t think
or attend to his job.
The Victorian sleuth,
reminds me of the offi-
cial bloodhound in one
of Yankee actor Col-
lier’s productions of
years ago. He rushes
into the room where
the “wanted” man is lounging and roars,
“I’m a secret service man! Don’t tell any-
one, will you ?” And the pursued one re-
plies calmly, “No, you tell them!”
* * *
An English immigrant in Melbourne, sal-
low and pimply faced, who pleaded guilty to
two charges of receiving stolen property,
offered lovely evidence of his previous good
character and prospects of future usefulness
to this country. Ilis witnesses deposed that
he had been clerking for a bookmaker. He
seems hardly a more desirable immigrant
than the imported “domestic servants” who
take positions at the corner of Collins-street
and are unpolitely requested to move on.
CHARITY BAZAAR ETHICS.
BOSS STALL-HOLDER: “And don't forget, Eunice , that a penny bottle of gingerbeer must
make four is. drinks !”
The condensed story of the Catts’ case in
Sydney Divorce Court seems to be Nat the
lady says she led a Dogg’s life.
Melb. City Council last week experienced a
passing spasm of regard for local industry.
A majority of the grave, unreverend gents
decided to request the Public Works Commit-
tee to “reconsider” certain tenders for explo-
sives. These were £l9B 13s. 4d. from an
Australian firm, and £l9B 7s. Id. from two
English firms. The committee had turned
down the Australian tender for the sake of
the odd 6s. 3d. seemingly. Nobody was game
WANTED—A MIRACLE-MAKER.
The Assistant Minister for Home Affairs denied
that the Federal Ministry was throwing “cold water”
on the Canberra capital site.
TRAVELLER : "Cripes! ”
to find fault with the quality of the locally-
made explosives. It was all a question of price.
And the 6s. 3d. which was to be saved on
paper would probably have vanished several
times over in postages and exchange and
sundries, through dealing with a distant sup-
plier. Then the distant supplier wouldn’t
have handed any of the money back as rates
to the city, and the local one would. Appar-
ently the City Council didn’t see these things.
But it had a flicker of an idea that when it
was a case of supporting Australian industry
versus 6s. 3d., it mightn’t-look well to give
the verdict for the 6s. 3d.
HOW HE FELL IN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We will sav where we will work, how we will
work, and when we will work, just when we like, and
we will receive what we say we like if we think it
adequate to cover all our needs. — A Flinders-lane ware-
house free labor man defying trades unionism and
the Trades Hall. —Melbourne Age report.
A “fag” alight betwen his lips, his cady on his head,
The young man flung his yardstick down, put on his
coat, and said:
“Enough o’ this for me—l’m off to do the blessed
Block!
A lot o’ goats you are to work right on till six
o’clock!”
And to the boss, who said: “We’re working back until
eleven
To-night,” he snapped: “Oh, work be blowed —and
you can go to Heaven 1”
The young man, passing onward, spoke the bald and
bent cashier:
“I want a bit of cash, to spend on girlie’s tea, and
beer!
(Let’s help meself!) I want a pair of new and
sparkling socks,”
He plunged his ready hand into the nearest bullion-
box,
And grabbed five quid. “Fair doos,” he quoth, in
quite a careless way—
“An adequate return, I think, for what I’ve done
to-day.”
Gaily he went, quite confident, big piles of work
among.
“I should be toiling here, I know,” he grinned;
“but, while I’m young,
I mean to work where, when and how I wish, or not
at all;
And when the billiard-table waits, or moving-pictures
call,
Or to a sweet, secluded hour at tea twin souls
aspire,
Why should I toil and moil when such is not my
heart’s desire ?”
The boss, pursuing, blocked his way before he
reached the door,
And asked why that free-labor youth would toil that
day no more?
“Out o’ me blanky way at once!” the bluff young
fellow cried,
“Why, I’m a pledged free-laborite —my work-hours I
decide!”
The boss breathed deep and swallowed hard, and
smiled a dreadful smile,
And then he screamed and fell on him, and kicked
him half a mile.
victoria.
FRANK HENTY.


Premiers’ conferences are not stilted
by the rigots of form. They are more
like fireside gatherings than assemblies
of lawmakers, and the established habit
of handing round cigars at intervals has
a pacifying effect.
(A\elb p2s|>er)
CW-.*. W*H- pe ** ooJ w^r ° *"
' Acute as the domestic-servant prob-
lem is in Melbourne and other cities in
the Commonwealth, it is a still greater
difficulty in the Northern Territory.
,There the residents cannot obtain the
required assistance, no matter what
wages they offer. Every young woman
who does manage to break away fromi
•the large centres of population to try
her luck in this distant field is promptly
wooed, and. in most cases won, by a
lonely bachelor, while the housewife is
once more left lamenting,
Qt* j>id :—■*’ Well, , I CV» strongly
rccomniend tne
Territory |or you. Twenrly-j'iV’e-
bot w«eK V>d exlra^—.
I jju&r&ntee ife extra^. ”
Mr. Cook astonished the Conference,
for instance, by assuring them that his
expert advisers reported that it would
take 63 days to transport by rail, with
the existing breaks of gauge, 30,000
mounted troops and their impedimenta
from Melbourne to Brisbane, even with
clear lines.
(soljl)— TRerc Would W
in sendino Soi »ntan - f~aor*rw "to Ifa* 1 of
vtbx —lr would not" te “too-old "to fiqbf when
ir ooT Hf ere.
The wrecked steamer Freetrader,
which has lain in the Murray River for
26 years, has been demolished.
D«' me. of ir?e/ I W/fMnm
Shi}> still o '(T7/f/////
viver DutcJjmvi
lc its old
CV> be seen af I^ e lielm.
The matter of taking st*i» to m4«e
a more vigorous. campaign to secure
stettlers from America trill probably be
SSred by the Cabinet Shortly.
Oj'C ou *'S e v CoVernmenT - will need
lli/stle*' io secure -from America,
ao-idi wlievi we tfiinK o[ 'bustlers” -sere is
only one for "tne-job. Jolio w earY V
sie l> forward ' " J
PROM MELBOURNE.


S-vd-wy
In the early days of this world the business terminus
of a great city was a cave with two narrow entrances.
There was no outlet at the other end. The mam-
moths and pterodactyls that carried goods and
passengers into the great city used to go in at one
entrance like this.
" Vr'dN/gy •
And when the beasts of burden
were unloaded they used to back
out of the other entrance like this.
r 1
But a time came when the cave
had to be repaired, and things
began to get mixed up inside.
.•f^Nryewt
And the ingoing and out-
going traffic got somewhat
confused.
Next day tne wealthy merchant
came again to argue and this
was all the satisfaction he got.
AXa nd a wealthy merchant went \C
to the man in charge and asked
him why in the name ol the
„ u ,,et a, «h= » th « H*w«
traffic could go right tnroug
it wasn’t customary.
BEFORE ADAM.


( Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
GAELIC WHISKY
is now supplied in the
NEW PATENT NON-REFILLABLE
GUARANTEE BOTTLE.
The characteristics of GREAT
AGE, PURITY and QUALITY
have been most carefully pre-
served.
Agents: ORME, KEIGWIN^CO.Ltd.
269-271 George Street, Sydney.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. l 2
EVERY DAY
4nare people are proving that
LUX
a the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
lalhrtcs Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lax coaxes rather than forces the dirt
krona the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub—lengthens the
life d the clothes.
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS, y
r
' -
'si
/ •
LEVER BROTHERS
UMITEO. SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Died at Summer Hill, Sydney, on April 1,
John Baton, aged 83. Baton served with the
93rd Foot (Sutherland Highlanders) at Bala-
clava and in the Indian Mutiny. He won
the V.C. before Lucknow when Havelock
was relieved. Unarmed, he made a survey
of the Sepoys’ position under heavy fire, and
finding a breach in the walls, led the British
to victory after Colin Campbell had reluct-
antly decided that the fort was impregnable.
Arriving at Sydney in 1861, the warlike
Highlander became a warder at Darlinghurst
Gaol, and gradually rose until he was made
governor at Berrima and afterwards at Goul-
burn. He retired on a pension in 1896.
JOSEPH AND HIS BRETHREN.
One of the oldest residents of Victoria
died recently at St. Helena, Greensborough,
near Melbourne. Miss Margaret Beale ar-
rived in Watt’s State in 1839, with her
father, Major Anthony Beale, retired from
the East India service. He represented
“John Company” on the island of St. Helena
during the term of Napoleon’s exile there,
and was one of the pall-bearers at his
funeral. Miss Beale was 86 years of age
when her funeral fell due.
“Mere Cove” speaks :
James Mitchell, of Table Top (N.S.W.), who died
the other day, owed his capacity to his remarkable
mother. She came, a widow with a young family
(James was at the time, then aged two years) to
Albury in the year 1837, and took Mungabreena.
James had been about the place, in a sentient state,
for 77 years till the other day. He never forgot
what he owed to her of whom the music-hall offender
delighteth to wail. It was in memory of his mother
that he parted up £2OOO to the Albury Hospital.
Nothing less potent could Wring such a sum out of
James, whose carefulness was Lauder-like in its
intensity. J. Mitchell, and brothers, with typical
family thoroughness, learnt the language of the
Woradgery tribe, and thus wormed themselves into
the members’ affections at a time when Binghi was
still a power in the land. James founded the Table
fop . st ud. it produced many good winners from
Glorious, sire of the Australian Cremorne, which, at
33 to 1 beat Straightftre in the Caulfield Cup. He
also owned Grand Canary, dam of Trafalgar. One of
his blackest memories surrounded the fact that he
sold this fair animal for something like £5O or
7s. 6d., or some equally paltry sum.
“0.K.” writes: —
When General lan Hamilton went to Canberra the
other week to witness performances of the Duntroon
military collegians in ceremonial drill, physical
drill, light horse and artillery drill, bridge building
and skirmishing, the unconscious funny man of the
circus-show was one of Hamilton’s staff-officers.
This typical representative of British militarism
wears a monocle and talks like the futile Augustus of
imported melodrama. The Duntroon youths couldn’t
for the life of them understand what the Johnnie was
saying, and every time he readjusted his eveglass
they roared inwardly. By the way, General Hamil-
ton’s parting address to the future officahs was not
quite correctly reported in the Sydney press. A
Peace Society has reproved the hearty warrior for
wishing the boys “plenty of wars” (vide newspaper
reports). What he actually said was “Good luck,
rapid promotion and bloody wars.” In its ex-
clamatory sense “Bloody wars!” means the same as
“O Jerusalem!” “Goodness gracious!” or many other
sociable terms. In this instance, coming at the
end of the sentence, it could be vaguely understood
to mean “So long!”
Maoriland has more than a passing inter-
est in the ill-fated Stefansson Arctic Expedi-
tion, as the anthropologist with the party is
Diamond Jenness, who hails from Welling-
ton. A letter was received from him the
other day (it had taken about five months
to wander down from the North), saying
that he was putting in the winter with an
Eskimo family within hailing distance of
the North Pole, and didn’t know when he’d
be able to get back. Anyhow, it wouldn’t be
for a day or two. He was one of the party
that went ashore to hunt caribou with flie
leader, and came hack to find that the ship,
with all the tucker and outfit and the balance
of the expedition, as well as the ship’s cat
and both anchors, had disappeared off the
bosom of the deep. It hasn’t been seen
since. The marooned party, filled with
hope (which is about all it had to fill itself
with), contrived to struggle along, and at
latest reports was still struggling.
Winckler, the last white skipper of the
Nippon Yusen Ivaisha line trading between
Japan and Australia, has left his familiar
job and become a Torres Strait pilot, for
which industry he should be eminently
fitted. The T. S. pilot runs, probably, the
longest stage of single-handed pilotage in
the world. On the Irrawaddy and Brahma-
pootra and upper Amazon boats the pilots
relieve each other at short intervals, and
each is expected to know his own stage only.
On the Irrawaddy a fresh nigger is taken
on in the morning, with his sub-nigger or
deputy-blot to help him, and both are dis-
charged at night. Then the vessel anchors
and waits for a bright, fresh nigger, who
comes with the sunrise like a black radiance
rising from the waters. As for the Missis-
sippi pilot he is practically dead and gone,
if he ever existed. Some people think that
Mark Twain invented him. If he was a
reality the railways killed him. But on that
immensely long, rocky stretch or graveyard
of ships inside the Barrier Reef there is a
grand chance for expert pilotage, and Cap-
tain Winckler is the kind of man who will
save many an old ark’s bones from
burial thereabouts. The Jap. ser-
vice is a good thing to get out of.
At first only the junior deck officers
were brown, and the white man
was supreme. Then they steadily
browned into the higher ranks, and
the white chief mates and captains
went out one by one to make room
for them. Winckler was retained
till the last because he w_as the
best of the crowd, but he felt lonely
as the final survivor of his race on
the Jap-Australia run. It was like
being the Last Man on the day of
the Deluge. Also he saw hundreds
of brown men famishing for his
job. And perhaps the Company
became too beastly polite, as if it
was talking to an Oldest Sea In-
habitant or a Survival. Being still
a young man and not feeling at all like an
Oldest Sea Inhabitant he slammed the door
of his engagement and quitted.
By “0.K.”: —
Train up a boy in the way of cheap notoriety and
when he is a man he will stick to it. George Corn-
wallis West is the son of the Mrs. Cornwallis Wrst
who was contemporary with young Mrs. Langtrv. and
her nearest rival in the society beauty business.
Mrs. Langtry’s photos had not long been on sale at a
hundred London shops when portraits of Mrs. Corn-
wallis West came into the market. Lily Langtry
was photoed always on her own, as girlishlv as pos-
sible, therefore Mrs. West, having several pretty
children to her credit, brought them into some of
the pictures. Practically the public was, asked to
give its society beauty vote to Mrs. Cornwallis West,
the lovely mother with a quite large family. The
juvenile Wests of the period saw themselves in shop
windows all over the place, and the craving for
notoriety was bred in them. It was born in the
subsequent members of the family. George Corn-
wallis West was one of the subsequent achievements
of his mother. He must have come to pass after
the craze for society-beauty photographs had died
out, and Lily Langtry was about to be born again as
a professional actress. His only chance of bringing
his features before the world at large was to
marry a notable woman, so he captured the widow
of Lord Randolph Churchill in 1900. He was then
25, and she was more than old enough to be his
mother. Last year the foolish matron got a decree
nisi of divorce from her darling George, after
having sued him for restitution of conjugal rights.
Last week the decree was made absolute, and on
the same day George Cornwallis West, now nearly
40, married Mrs. Pat Campbell, who is only ten
years his senior. So his photos are on view once
more. He’s happy.
THE RECURRING VISION
There is no escape from it. The proposition, if
given effect to, is another substantial step towards
unification. — Sydney Telegraph on John Forrest's
State Debts proposal.
TELEGRAPH: “Ok, dear! There’s no escape!
I see the beastly thing in everything,”
Edgar Waite took over control of Adelaide
Museum on the Ist of April. He had five
years of the work at Leeds long ago* but since
1892 has been a good Australasian, first
as Zoologist to the “Australian MuseUm” in
Sydney, and latterly as director of the
museum at Christchurch (M.L.), whete he
specialised in fish—not the stinking variety.
Professor Stirling, of the University, has had
control of the Adelaide Museum up till now.
“Albatross”: “Sammy” Toombs, master
mariner, who cut Varney Farkes’ cable at
last N.S.W. general elections, is one of the
most tireless orators in the universe. He is
distinguished not so much for what he says
as for the interminable length at which he
savs it Hence his net name “Tnw”
says it. nence, ms pet name, Jaw
Toombs. In his sea days when he got really
going his fellow mariners were unable to
even hear the interjections of the
engines. He was engaged by the A.U.S.N.
Co. to help salve the Mildura, which was
wrecked on the N.W. Cape (W.A.). There
was a vague idea in the minds of the directo-
rate that he might talk the unhappy vessel
clean off the rocks. He failed in this ; how-
ever he talked Varney out of Parlia-
ment. He is hard at work at present
talking himself into the Ministry. He has
come nearer, perhaps, to solving the problem
of perpetual motion than any other male
citizen of this great land of ours.
CATTS, M.B.R.,
w[?]a has been figur-
ing in the N.S.W.
Marimonial Cornt.
From a Victorian artist in Bull’s Run:—
You will be surprised to hear that George Reid’s
absence from London has not been noticed. Even in
officious circles they seem to be unaware of his non-
existence. At the office they are telling of a caller
who asked after the Wide Commissioner, and was
told he had gone to Australia. “Has he, indeed?”
said the visitor. “Could you give me his telephone
number? I want to ask him to bring me an emu.”
“Islander” writes
Your contributor’s character sketch (26/3/’l4) of
C. E. Jaeomb was uncannily correct. The author
of “The Horrible Australian,” or whatever it is
called, is not in England, however, but in the New
Hebrides; or, to be explicit, he was in those parts
when I left the other day. I never heard that he
wanted to get into the Melbourne Club and failed,
but I know that he was anxious to become a mem-
ber of one of the Sydney clubs. He could get no one to
put him up—-not that there was anything against
his character, but on the general grounds that he
was a tiresome young ass of the blatantly boring
type—and the project fell through. His people
are well-to-do English folks of the bourgeois class.
They set him up in the raisin industry; came out
to visit him and his brother (who lives at Vailima)
periodically; and used to send them both cases of
wine, pianos and other home comforts from time to
time. The brother, who is older than Australia’s
assailant, is a barrister and solicitor, both English
and French, and a good sort. Young Jaeomb —he of
the book —made no great millions at the raisin
business. The local view was that he spent so much
time telling total strangers about the persons of
birth whom he had met at Harrow that he did not
get a chance to attend to the raisins. Mildura heard
more about (1) Harrow and (2) the titled people of
Britain who had been educated there, during the
period when Jaeomb was endeavoring to grow raisins,
than it ever had before, or, in all human likelihood,
ever will again. His continued failure to make any
money irritated his people, and ultimately his brother
wrote and advised him to chuck the raisin business
and come to the Islands, where an easy and fairly
lucrative billet awaited hihl. And that is IiOW
Jaeomb came to abandon Australia. He is not a
bad lad at heart. A queer sort of Snobbishness that
one Only finds in suburban Britishers; and the touchi-
ness and Self-sufficiency which are the heritage of
the young and dull the world over, are his Chief
troubles. In estimating his book—which, by the
way, I haven’t read mvseif—yOu want to remember
that he had a tt.ying time Socially irt Australia, for
various reasons; and that to this particular type,
Social neglect is an intolerable experience;
ROBBING THE DOG OF HIS BONE.
Mr. Flowers proposed the second reading of the
State Debt and Sinking Fund (Amendment) Bill.
N.S.W Parliamentary item.
“Hamer”: The Premiers’ Conference
offered an example of the chances that Aus-
tralia provides for the poor man, if it did
nothing else. There were only two men of
inherited wealth at it—Mackinnon and
Willie Kelly. Of the others, two started life
selling newspapers, Joe Cook was a miner,
Forrest a surveyor, Holman a French
polisher, Watt a clerk, Peake a carpenter,
Schddan an eUginedtiver, and so on. That
several of these men are hide-bound Tories
merelv illustrates the fact that Toryism, like
measles, occurs unexpectedly.
Opposition-leader Wade, of N.S.W., sug-
gests that the Liberal voter should be caught
young. It is a good idea, but a slow man
like Wade is much more likely to catch him
dead, or crippled with rheumatism.
“It is only a question of a few years,”
according to N.S.W. Minister Hoyle, “when
the whole wool produce of N.S.W. and
Queensland will be sold in Sydney.*’ Yet
Hoyle belongs to a Government Which pro-
fesses to believe in decentralisation !
Hagelthorn, who represents Public Works
in Victoria, was waited on last week by
“representatives of the Liberal Workers’ In-
stitute,” who wanted him to do something
“for the prevention of unemployment.” If
these representatives would get busy at find-
ing out why the greater part of Victoria is
losing population, they might begin to get on
the track of their job. The Victorian theory
is that it is essential, by strange railway
deviations and wild devices in railway
charges, to rush all business to Melbourne,
and if the business can’t go to Melbourne by
reason of the remoteness, to kill it dead
rather than let it go somewhere else. For
instance, there is plenty of work for 100,000
toilers around Portland if it were not for the
insane Congestion policy. The Liberal
Workers’ Institute might consider the point.
REVEREND EVERARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Better Japanese rule than Home Rule. —Utterance
of the Reverend Everard Digges La Touche (Syd-
ney), in recent newspaper controversy.
The Reverend Everard Digges La Touche
Joined the debate with a frightful whoosh;
Glared like a Gorgon at gods and men,
Into the vitriol dipped his pen,
Wrote for a minute, wrote for an hour,
Wonderful tropes of eloquent power ;
Thus he wrote, with his mouth in foam,
“Gimme the Monkey, but spare me Rome.”
The Reverend Everard Digges La Touche
Had no doubt in his mind—not much!
Suppose that over the seas there crept
The Monkey host while the watchers slept?
Where, oh where, in that case would be
The Reverend Everard Digges La T. ?
I see a sad and stipendless man
Whose church is a house for Ayusha San.
The Reverend Everard Digges La Touche
Is an Orange hero who deals out stoush—
“Lo, from Italy comes the Beast!
Embrace the Monkey and spurn the Priest!”
Won’t they be a bee-utiful pair,
Japanese morals and Anglican prayer?
The world will grin when in church it twigs
Koko San and Everard Digges.
Reverend Everard Digges La Touche
(To put it in French) please close vot’ bouche:
Preferring the Jap to the Irish gods,
(Begging your pardon) is past the odds.
That state of mind in an old-time dunce
Was called “hysterica passio” once;
And hard-head medicoes treat it still,
With a cooling draught and a good big pill.
N.S.W.
L.
A QUESTION OF MEASUREMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
London Thursday.—Under the heading, “A Great
Imperialist,” the Daily Telegraph to-day devotes its
first leading article to references to Mr. George
Reid. — Cable.
They call him “great”—that is old London's latest.
But have his great hosts found
Where the “great” guest from overseas is greatest ?
Is it straight through or round?
N.S.W.
CONSTANT FEEDER.


h.
mss
; 35S$?££
K '£&&&*
SBR
S?2S
m); tsUUtfM
*2§ga
m
'l**
‘Sp3~S
re iXx&z
mm
■'tZjgziii:
ill
Y
'4&
a *&*uir
t -r
’ ■. :
sbsb*s>.
m
Y
4$
1
ffl
T Y
mm
*
i
sa
<33
\
SB
B
1
111
I
C«U*
-
/
- &
•~S«fWkS
r
w
jfeaT^
fell
:
4.
&
MS
B
11 : '
:
f^l
Ffe
<c
S 5
V
o
ggpgigY?
iM
;
o
,-v. •'
fit
cSSft
There was nothing smarter at Sydney this
Easter than Gowings’ Suits!
We quote Austral Suits to Measure —635. 705., 755., 845., 905., 955., 105 s. and 115 s.
cowl N G
** PIONEER DISTRIBUTORS OF AUSTRALIAN GOODS/'
484, 486, 488 & 490 George Street; &3, 5,7, 9,11,13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, SYDNEY.
Send for General Catalogue of 120 Pages of Everything for Men’s and Boys’ Wear.


Hi * h - Cto Woodworking Machinery 8 Engineers’ Tools
COVENTRY CHAINS FOR MOTOR LORRIES.
Kindly let us have your enquiries. “ INGECO ” FARM ENGINES.
SIMPSON BROS., 32-34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Overall, McCray, Ltd.
44 Campbell Street
SYDNEY.
SPECIALTY:
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Large Stocks also on hand—Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings,
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Pumps, &c. Send for Catalogue.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Independent Order of Foresters life
assurance concern, a Canadian outfit which came to
Australia a number of years ago with pomp and
blowing of brass trumpets, and departed with no
pomp at all, has been recently heard from. It was
of the assessment order; that is to say it promised
absurdly large benefits for very little, and
professed that it could always make things
straight, if funds ran short, by putting up
the charge on its membeis. It took the
client by the hand, and gave him a policy for much
in return for something that could only be seen
through a microscope, but reserved the right to in-
crease the premium when the bottom fell out of the
wonderful device, and to forfeit the policy if the
extra money wasn’t forthcoming. And if Smith and
Brown and Jones had all died before the great annoy-
ance came and the heirs had got their money,
Robinson, who was alive and still held his policy,
would naturally have the shortage left on his hands.
This 1.0. F. contraption had a huge, fat, unwise Red
Indian as Chief Manager, or Principal Ranger, or
Boss Elk, or something of the kind, and it advertised
him greatly. His name was Oronhyatekha, or
Ornithorhynchus, or something of the sort, and he was
described as “Dr.” The enterprise sent to Australia
a large, short-tempered manager who brushed aside
all criticism on the ground that he wasn’t bound by
the theories of “old line” companies. He apparently
reckoned that when he called the A.M.P. Society and
the National Mutual “old line” he had blown them
quite away. Also there came along a short, plausible
man, wider in the waist than George Reid, who was
supposed to have no immediate connection with the
1.0. F. He was just a Canadian politician who had
happened along, and couldn’t help mentioning the
tremendous advantages of the show, and its solvency,
and the fact that to meet its Chief Elk was, in
itself, a liberal education. A certain amount of ill-
feeling arose in Victoria through this broad-beamed
citizen giving to a prominent politician a donation
for the party funds. The liabilities of the 1.0. F.
under its policies looked enormous. Its assets looked
very small indeed, and a great proportion of them
seemed to be shares in a trust concern about the
solvency of which nothing was known. But the finan-
cial creature was amazingly bumptious, amazingly
patronising, very sorry for this country’s ignorance
of real life assurance principles and its devotion to
poor little concerns like the A.M.P., and very proud
of the advantages it was going to confer upon a
primitive race of sheep-rearers.
'There was no law in Australia to prevent the
garish bag of tricks collecting good Australian
money, and nobody made any law to prevent it. In
fact it persuaded men of the standing of George
Turner and Alexander Peacock to give it a certain
amount of countenance. It held meetings. It ad-
vertised largely. It got sundry dailies to publish
the portrait of the Chief Red Elk, or whatever he
was called, with remarks about his geniality, his up-
standing figure, the lightning that shone in his eye,
the thunder on his brow, and the beneficence of his
coat-tails. The Bulletin is pleased to remember
that it was the first paper —and almost the only one
—to publish a wholesale and retail denunciation of
the 1.0. F. concern from Canada, that it kept on de-
nouncing and that it was on thoroughly bad terms
with all parties concerned from the beginning to the
end of their stay here. When the foolish old Chief
Red Elk died—apparently he was only a Choctaw or
Cherokee figurehead—and the clouds of financial
stench gathered heavily round the show, the hostility
was still in good working order.
The S. M. Herald described the 1.0. F. the other
day as a concern which had been “happily driven
out of Australia.” (It is a pity that the Herald
didn’t do some more driving on its own account
when a strong unanimous shove was badly needed.)
Also it mentioned casually that, according to the
latest British Board of Trade returns the liabilities
under policies are £9,297,248, and the assets, assum-
ing them to be sound, a little over £4,000,000. A
fair amount of good Australian money is probably
still buried in the bowels of that shortage, but as
the 1.0. F. has left for its old home far away there
isn’t much chance for any Australian to argue on
the point. And as the old Chief Red Elk is now
understood to be grazing in Heaven, no questions can
be put to him. The only reason for all this diffusive-
ness is that, despite the many years that have flowed
past since this garish jest came to our country, Aus-
tralia hasn’t devised such a thing as a rigid and
strenuous life assurance law, with Government audit
and Government valuation. And if some Independent
Order of- Armadillos Life Assurance Company, with
its head oftfSejn a tree beside the upper waters of
the Amazon, comes here this year, with plentiful
cheek, a prospectus and table of rates, some ad-
vertising money, and large portraits of the Chief
Sloth or Principal Alligator who runs the show, there
is still room to do business.
* * * *
Wunderlich, Ltd., of Sydney and Mel-
bourne, manufacturers of ceiling and roofing materi-
als, etc. (the co. began with a disclosed deficit of
£1737, representing preliminary expenses) :
Dividends.
, A n Towards Nomi-
Net Pref. Re- nal Re-
Profits. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
_££ £ £ £
Aug., 08.. 7,923 962 7J p.c.= 4,389 2,573 835
Feb., ’09..10,529 962 8 „ „ 4,680 4,887 5,722
Premiums on new shares .. 1,376 7,098
Aug., ’09.. 9,971 962 8 p.c.= 4,901 4,108 11,206
Premiums on new shares .. 1,270 12 476
Feb., ’10..11,262 962 8J p.e.= 5,210 5,090 17,’566
Feb., 11..22,916 2800 9 „ „ 11,033 9,083 26,649
Feb., 12..30,405 2800 9£ „ „ 11,646 15,959 42,608
Feb., 13..34,071 2800 10 „ „ 12,259 19,012 61,620
Feb., 14..32,877 3821 10 „ „ 13,599 15,457 77,077
During the year a further £60,000 of capital was
got in, £40,000 of it in second prefs., 7 p.c. cumu-
lative, the balance in ordinaries. That brings the
total up to £222,591, of which £BO,OOO carries a
7 p.c. pref. Apparently this extra capital went into
freeholds and towards forming a subsidiary co. in
Brisbane —Wunderlich and Steelart Ltd. It will be
noticed that in the table the reserves are described
as “nominal.” When the co. was formed the goodwill
items were bunched with tangible assets. Hence it
was impossible to ascertain their exact amount.
Since then, however, the items have been separated,
and no less than £65,702 was represented by in-
tangible assets. Of this £38,500 was for the good-
will of the Sydney business. Besides being able to
retain the name, the co. is in the fortunate position
of having the services of the three Wunderlichs as
permanent directors. Their unusual combination of
art and business capabilities has practically made
the business. Whether their successors will be able
to carry on the show as they have done is a matter
for time to settle. Hence the necessity for rapidly
wiping off the goodwill entry. But the co. has had
such an exceedingly prosperous existence that it has
been able to accumulate a Reserve Against Goodwill
equal to the amount of that item, besides an ordi-
nary reserve of £10,068. In other words, the
capital of the co. is now wholly represented by tan-
gible assets. It is a wonderful performance. During
the six years that the public has been interested in
the concern, the total net profits have been £159,856,
and the capital, up to last year, had ranged from
£144,507 to £162,591. Of course it must be re-
membered that Sydney has been enjoying an unpre-
cedented building boom of late, and most of the
buildings are of the better class, with the fine
finishing touches that help to swell Wunderlich’s
profits. However, the profits have been so gaudy as
compared with the capital that there could be a
very considerable shrinkage before the dividend rate
would be endangered. The co.’s financial position
is particularly sound. Liabilities amount to
£53,606. Assets include: Freeholds, £73,201 ;
machinery, etc., £38,939; investments (no doubt
mainly the Brisbane subsidiary co.), £51,118;
stocks, £80,458; book debts, £39,927; sundries,
£5357. So that assets are as much as £235,395
in excess of liabilities. Five years ago liabilities
were £41,399, and assets £134,450, a surplus of
£93,051. Thus, in five years, besides paying a very
respectable dividend and making repairs, etc., the
co. has put no less than £142,344 back into the
business.
* * * *
F. W. Hughes, Ltd. (Sydney), manufac-
turers of wool-tops, who commenced business (so far
as this co. is concerned) with a deficit of £11,940,
representing goodwill (£11,566) and preliminary
exes.:—
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
May, 1909 .. £11,940
Dec., 1909 .. £17,411 7 p.c. = £4,998 £4OOO 3,527
_ Reserves.
Dec., 1910 .. 18,587 10 „ „ 13,357 1,703
Dec., 1911 . . 12,506 6 „ „ 9,329 4000 880
Dec., 1912 . . 17,047 6 „ „ 9,899 6000 2,028
Dec., 1913 . . 10,835 5„ „ 8,350 4000 613
That looks very bad. Six years back the Govern-
ment offered a bonus of not exceeding £lO,OOO a
year for the production of wool-tops for export, and
this co. took advantage of the offer, and formed
itself into a public concern. The original offer
expired on Dec. 31 last, but the term was extended
for another two years. During 1913 the co. pro-
duced 2,615,5211 b. of wool-tops, on which the bonus,
equal to Id. per lb., would have amounted to £10,896,
but as £lO,OOO is the limit, presumably it did not
get the £896. Assuming that it received the
£lO,OOO, and there is no reason to suspect that it
did not, it will be seen by the table that only £835
of profit was made exclusive of the Government gift.
What will happen in, say, 1916 when the bonus will
be non-existent no one can tell. The term may, of
course, be again extended, but to date there is no
mention of it; and to buy shares on the off chance
that the Government will go on renewing the bonus
for two- or three-year periods is out of the question.
It will be noticed in the table (1) that the profits
are the smallest since the present co. took the busi-
ness over, (2) that after allowing for depreciation
and amortization of leases, two very necessary things,
the reserves have to be cut into to pay the dividend,
(3) that even then the rate of dividend is reduced,
and (4) that the reserves are only a miserable £513.
When this co. started there was a deficit of £11,940,
representing goodwill ( £11,566) and preliminary
exes., but the whole of this item has by this time
been wiped out. Now, no doubt, the shareholders
are beginning to wonder whether the goodwill was
worth what they paid for it. The directors enclose
a type-written note to the effect that “in view of the
fact that the company must hold heavy stocks for a
time against contracts made, for which the whole of
the resources are needed,” they have decided to
“defer for a few months the distribution of the divi-
dend.” Last year the same thing was done, only
then it was “on account of the stringent financial situ-
ation and of the commitments of the co. in the
future.” Whether even that dividend has been
paid yet, The Bulletin knows not. The co.’s
liabilities amount to £38,641, and the capital
now stands at £167,152. Of this, no less
than £164,272 is represented by “Plant, premises,
machinery, lease and water rights Stock
stands at £44,726, shipments in suspense £5661,
sundries £3997. Which, taken all round, is not a
particularlv cheerful situation, though it is not pos-
sible to tell exactly how the co. stands on account of
the lease and water rights being thrown into the gen-
eral heap. Expenses are showing up a little of late, too,
and in two years have moved from £61,227 to
£69.057. Another conglomeration that needs shat-
tering is “sales, shipments, and stocks of wool-tops,
basils, etc., and bonus on tons exported,” £473,472.
It amounted to £412,625 last year, but it is hopeless
to attempt to discover what progress the co. is mak-
ing. Of course, when the export bonus ceases to
come in the local market may expand, but it will
take a long time, and unless something very unex-
pected hapnens The Bulletin regrets that it cannot
be very optimistic.
* * * *
Metters, Ltd., manufacturers of stoves,
windmills, oil engines, etc., who paid £29,656
for the goodwill of the business. In the table this
item is not regarded as an asset: —
Towards
Writ- Re-
Jan., Profits. Dividends. ten off. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1911.. 27,978
1912.. 18.665 10 p.c. = 11,844 2199 4.622 23.356
Premiums on new shares .. 3,177 20,179
1913.. 24,305 10 p.c. = 14,173 3758 6,374 13,805
Premiums on new shares, £375 . . 13,430
1914.. 15,718 Nil 4995 10,723 2,707
A full history of this co.’s early career was given in
the last post-mortem. The co. was founded in Ade-
laide, and had up to the time when the public be-
came interested branched out into Perth and Sydney.
During the past year it has done a good deal of
building and extension. New showrooms are being
built in Sydney and a branch has been opened in
Newcastle. The co. has also acquired the business
of the Foreman Foundry and Enamelling Co. in
Hobart. To pay for all these extensions 10,000
shares were issued at a small premium and 8679
were issued as payment for the Hobart business.
This extension campaign and the fact that the co.
has had more than its fair share of labor troubles,
especially in Perth and Adelaide, have com-
bined to make the year’s profit rather smaller than
usual. Yet though the profit was large enough to
stand a reduced dividend the directors have shown
considerable forethought in foregoing one for the
year. The whole of the net profit, £10,723, goes
to reserve, so that now all but £2707 of the capital
is represented by tangible assets, notwithstanding
that no less than £29,656 was paid for goodwill.
Gross profits for 1913-14 were £61,723, as compared
with £58,160 for 1912-13: but, the co. being a
very large employer of labor, expenses have increased
out of all proportion—from £36,496 to £46,004.
This comparison shows, among other things, the
expansion of the business etc., within 12 months: —
Liabilities
1913. 1914.
Overdraft .. ..£26,689 £34,981
Other liabilities . . 26,607 31,247
Assets.
Land and buildings . . 48,000 66,129
Plant 31,784 33,190
Stock 75,384 84,760
Sundry debtors . . 36,418 34,729
Other assets .. .. 175 8,746
Land and buildings show a big increase, but as
most of this was paid for out of new capital, the
liabilities do not show a particularly big increase.
Sundry debtors are still on the large side, though
there is a slight decrease since last year. The growth
of the “other assets” item is, of course, made up of
shares in the Hobart acquisition. Taken all round,
however. The Bulletin isn’t alarmed at the sudden
drop in profits. Labor troubles are sure to be pretty
frequent for a year or two, but apart from that
there appears to be no cause for worry.
* * * *
Weight, Heaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
carriers and suppliers of station goods:—
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonuses. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Jan., ’06.. 6,593 74 p.c. = 2625 3968 24,298
July, ’06.. 6,311 10 „ „ 3500 2811 27,109
Jan., ’07.. 6,275 10 „ „ 3500 2775 29,884
July, ’07.. 7,955 10 „ „ 3500 4455 34,339
Jan., ’OB.. 8,826 10 „ „ 3500 5326 39,665
July, ’OB.. 8,054 10 „ „ 3500 4000 554 40,219
Jan., ’09.. 7,167 10 „ „ 3500 5000 38,886
July, ’09.. 7,056 10 „ „ 3500 4500 37,942
Jan., ’lO.. 7,415 10 „ „ 3500 3000 915 38,857
July, ’lO.. 7,252 10 „ „ 3500 3000 752 39,609
Reserves transferred to capital, £lO,OOO . . 29,609
Jan., ’ll.. 7,450 10 p.c. = 4000 3000 450 30,059
July, ’ll.. 7,852 10 „ „ 4000 3000 852 30,911
Jan., ’12.. 10,445 10 „ „ 4250 6195 37,106
Reserves transferred to capital, £lO,OOO .. 27,106
Premiums on new shares .. . . 4000 31,106
July, ’12.. 10,742 10 p.c. = 4750 5992 37,098
Inner reserves disclosed, £21,000 . . 58,098
Jan., ’13.. 9,124 10 p.c. = 5000 4124 62,222
July, ’13.. 7,895 10 „ „ 5000 2895 65,117
Jan., ’14.. 8,532 10 „ „ 5000 3532 68,649
The capital is £lOO,OOO, of which £20,000 has been
handed out in bonus shares within the past four
years. In 1907 it was only £70,000 and the profits
were £8826. Now, sad to say, though it is £lOO,OOO
the profits are only £8532. Next year they may be
£5OOO or they may be back to the £lO,OOO mark;
it all depends on the season, both for wool and
wheat. This co. deals largely in fodder and station
necessaries, and the cocky buys just as much during
the year if it turns out to be a poor crop as he does
if it is a record one, and he pays for it with a P.N.
due in February. While the present run of good
seasons continues, Wright, Heaton’s profits will
boom. But when the run is broken the co. is liable
to find a heap of dishonored P.N.’s on hand, and a
consequent slump in profits; though if the W.-H.
management is as wise as The Bulletin gives it
credit for being, it has made some provision for
this. The co. is on a very solid position financially,
as this comparison will show
Liabilities.
Jan., Jan., July, Jan.,
1909. 1913. 1913. 1914.
General .. .. £37,648 £57,204 £50,093 £55,627
Assets.
Cash . . . . 23,263 21,375 26,934 27,796
Premises, plant, etc. 15,202 19,021 19,972 19,238
Stock .. .. 27,501 42,346 47,561 48,194
Book debts . . 60,472 114,185 99,243 106,548
McCulloch Co. .. 21,846 25,000 25,000 25,000
Thus in five years the co.’s liabilities have increased
by only £17,979, and during- the same period assets
have shown a growth of no less than £78,492. It
is a wonderful showing, considering that the co. has
during the period paid a dividend of never less than
10 p.c. Book debts are certainly heavy, especially
on a capital of £lOO,OOO, but the reserves are so
considerable that the co. is able to keep going with
only £55,627 of outside money. The co. used to
carry on business in Queensland as well as N.S.W.,
but sold out the Northern undertaking. Besides
that it holds all the shares in the Victorian branch
of the McCulloch Carrying Company, which pays
a dividend of 124 p.c., and no doubt has consider-
able reserves of its own. These, of course, really
belong to Wright, Heaton and Co., though they are
not shown in the accounts.
* * * *-
Just two years ago (on April 25, 1912)
The Bulletin had a word or two to say about the
Williams-Endicott Banking Corporation, which,
through newspaper advertisements, invited applica-
tions for a batch of first mortgage 7 p.c. debentures,
to be secured by “one of the finest buildings to be
erected in Sydney.” Since then The Bulletin has
heard nothing of the co., and although it is still
mentioned in the financial year books it is crowded
right out of the directory. At the time of the co.’s
first mortgage 7 p.c. appearance this paper asked a
few questions. Here are some of them: (1) Where the
Williams-Endicott Banking Corporation hails from;
(2) Where the Banking Corporation was established ;
(3) When and where the £160,000 capital was paid
up, and how it is invested pending the commence-
ment of the proposed building operations; (4) What
business, if any, the Banking Corporation has done in
the past, and where; (5) The location of the build-
ings to be erected. It got no replies to the ques-
tions at the time. Now it digs up the dead body of
the problem, repeats the questions, and adds some
more. (1) Where is the Williams-15ndicott Banking
Corporation; (2) When is it going to begin building
operations on a large scale; (3) Did anyone in Sydney
put up any cash, and if so how did the speculation
flourish ? The Bulletin also added: “A censor of
public companies, who would pass judgment on a
new institution before it began to take the public’s
money and assure the community that it was a
feasible affair, and a State auditor who would in-
spect it regularly in later years are two officials
whose appointment is worth consideration.”
* * * *
Permewan, Wright and Co., Ltd.,
carriers, etc., of Melbourne and elsewhere:—
Net Written To Re- Re-
Jan., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1903 ..£6630 8 p.c. = £5OOO £7,994
Loss. Deficit.
1904 . . 594 3 „ „ 1875 £9662 4,137
1905 . . 4225 Nil 136 8,498
1906 .. 1566 Nil 1022 11,086
Profit.
1907 .. 5364 Nil 308 £5056 6,030
{Plant apparently written
down .. .. 6371 12,401
Reserves.
£12,500 capital written off .. 99
Profit.
6731 6 p.c. = 3000 3.731 3,830
1909 . . 1797 5 „ „ 2500 3,127
1910 . . 3532 5 „ „ 2500 1032 4,159
1911 . . 5562 6 „ „ 3000 2562 6,721
1912 . . 5594 6 „ „ 3000 2594 9,315
1913 .. 7689 6 „ „ 3000 4689 14,004
1914 .. 9340 8 „ „ 4000 5340 19,344
The item in the table situated just about where Fat
wears his watch chain takes some of the polish- off
the 8 p.c. dividend. Still it was better that the
accumulated wear should be written off out of
capital in one lump than that dividends should be
starved for years in the hope of making good the
loss out of earnings. The co. shows quite a respect-
able increase all round for this year. It runs four
lines of business: (1) it hawks its own goods up the
Murray and other back country rivers; (2) it
brings the farmers' produce down on the return
trip; (3) it is now sole owner of a sawmill in which
it had formerly held only a share; and (4) it does a
pretty extensive carrying business on land. The river
department, say the directors, still shows a small
profit ; last year it showed “disappointing results.”
But it is a risky business; when the rivers are low,
as they often are, the boats are off duty, and when
there is plenty water there is generally a corres-
ponding supply of snags. That means a big repair
bill. Last year repairs to river plant ran into
£lO4B, and for the previous year £1347 ; besides
which, of course, there is pretty extensive deprecia-
tion to provide for. Like other up-country trading
cos. Permewan, Wrights have a goodly stock of book-
debts ; but with this class of concern big book
debts mean big business, and that is the main thing,
given, of course, good management. That and other
matters are shown in this comparison, extending
over a fair period:—
1901. 1910. 1912. 1913. 1914.
Liabilities . .£28,014 £30,781 £47,501 £40,325 £40,184
Plant .. .. 47,358 38,870 45,824 45,842 49,682
Book debts .. 48,981 34,990 46,080 44,912 41,413
Merchandise .. 9,270 10,537 14,704 13,835 17,828
Mi icellaneous.. 2,107 3,044 3,208 2,740 3,106
Thus it will be seen that on a capital of £50,000
debts amount to £41,413. The result is that a
large amount of borrowed money is needed in the
business. But the debts are no doubt mainly far-
mers’ P.N.’s due, as usual, in February. Under the
circumstances, it might not be a bad scheme if cos.
who do a big country trade, made up their accounts
to the end of March. However, the table shows that
Permewan, Wrights are quite safe financially, and
provided they keep their plant well written down,
which no doubt they will do after past experiences,
the profits should show a steady increase, though
The Bulletin will be better pleased when the re-
serves are double what they are now.
* * * *
The Civil Service Co-operative Society
of Victoria, Ltd. (Melbourne) :
Written To Ke- Re-
Loss. Dividend. Off. serves, serves.
Jan., 1909 .. £220 Nil Nil £340
Deficit.
July, 1909 .. 3712 Nil Nil 3,372
Profit.
Jan., 1910 .. 2034 Nil Nil £2034 1,338
July, 1910 . . 1694 Nil £356 1338
Capital forfeited and written off, £4062.
Jan., 1911 . . 935 Nil 935
Capital forfeited, £1214
T? pcprvpsj.
July, 1911 .. 964 Nil 1207 971
Capital forfeited, £1125
Jan., 1912 .. 1345 Nil 1140 199 2,295
Capital forfeited, £678 .. 2,973
July, 1912 . . 231 Nil 1136 2,068
Capital forfeited, £635 .. 2,703
Loss. Deficit.
Jan., 1913 . . 2027 Nil 891 215
Capital forfeited, £3BB \ k7l
July, 1913 .. 5848 Nil 896 /
Capital forfeited, £631 tlftfio2
Jan., 1914 .. 3755 Nil 907 S’
This is, without a doubt, the black sheep of the Aus-
tralian family of co-operative stores. In the first
place it spent too much money op premises; then
it found that these premises, its chief store, were in
a very out-of-the-way place, and business began to
be desperately bad. Last year the chief stores were
sold at a loss, on the book value,. of about £3OO.
The co. then moved into temporary premises, and
finally into its new buildings. All this moving
about meant that the “central” store made a fat loss
of £4490 for the six months, and that the cake
manufactory lost £B5; however, the bakery—one of
the co.’s side-lines —made a profit of £Bl2, and
the Williamstown branch was £.B to the good, so
that the loss for the half-year was reduced to £3755.
The “capital forfeited” line which drops in regularly
every half-year needs a little explanation. About five
years ago the directors suddenly woke up to the
fact that shareholders weren’t taking any interest in
the concern, wherefore they decided that, unless a
shareholder spent at least £l2 a year at the store,
he or she must pay a forfeit, such forfeit to be
deducted from the shareholder’s capital holding.
The result is that while the capital in Jan., 1909,
was £63,340, distributed among 13,283 members, it
is now only £37,067, and there are 7823 members.
Sales during the same period have fallen from
£80,895 to £59,524. The co. has not paid a
dividend since Jan., 1908, when it handed out
£l2OB, and it has not distributed a bonus since
July, 1907. The total bonus distributions amount
to £8351, as compared with £251,716 for the Sydney
co. During the past half-year the directors have been
making a raid on the expense item, with a view to
bringing it down somewhere near the income; if
that is the case it plight be as well if they started
on themselves first. There is a whole army of them —
nine in all, when five would be quite enough to run
the show. Liabilities amount to £54,791, and
capital is £37,067. Against that, stock stands at
only £22,675. Sales are by no means small, although
there is a constant shrinkage, and a loss of £3755
when sales are £59,525 simply shrieks that some-
where the management is, to say the least of it,
rotten,
* * * *
The Metropolitan, Mutual Perm an-
nent Building and Investment Association, Ltd.
(Sydney), from the year when £103,898 of capital
was written off on account of the re-valuation of
securities-
Loss
Gross on Net
Dec , Profit. Sales. Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
1901 .. £1597 £5OO £1097 Nil £21,811
1902 . . 538 385 153 Nil 21,964
Forfeited capital, £lB.. 21,982
1903 . . 2223 591 1632 Nil 23,614
1904 .. 2019 1041 978 Nil 24.592
Written off, £2500.. 22,092
1905 .. 1217 743 474 Nil 22,566
1906 . . 1398 98 1300 Nil 23,866
Written off, £447 . . 23,419
1907 .. 1152 291 861 Nil 24,280
1908 .. 1660 970 690 5 p.c. =£2loB 22,862
Written off, £247 . . 22,615
1909 .. 1541 619 922 3$ p.c. = 1404 22,133
1910 . . 2785 581 2204 5f „ „ 2458 21,879
Written off, £6957.. 14,922
1911 .. 5013 15 4998 13$ p.c. = 5618 14,302
1912 .. 4822 104 4718 9$ „ „ 3863 15,157
1913 .. 5469 5469 10 „ „ 4500 16,126
The Bulletin hates to remind these building socie-
ties of their past, especially when they are ob-
viously trying to go straight. But when a co. with
a history as dazzling as this one’s pays a dividend
far in excess of what it should, not once, but year
after year, it is time its past performances were
hurled at it. When the smash came, just on 21
years ago, this co. was left with liabilities of no less
than £254,000, and its assets consisted mainly of
a heap of suburban allotments worth nothing like
what they stood for in the books, and an absurdly
long name. The result was that its £5 shares—
there were 28,092 of them—were written down to
305., and the debenture holders were asked to forego
3 p.c. of their interest, which they did, having not
much choice. This table will show how things
have moved of late years :
Liabilities.
1903. 1908. 1911. 1912. 1913.
Capital ..£42,099 £42.138 £42,138 £42,138 £45,000
Debentures .. 49,144 Nil Nil Nil Nil
Other debts.. 47,337 28,547 1,217 624 753
Assets.
Advances .. 29,009 16,780 11,575 10,440 19,003
Estates, etc... 123,766 75,489 45,462 43,300 41,275
Cash, etc. .. 9,835 4,349 7,587 9,441 7,551
Now that the co. has almost cleaned up its slate—
there are only £753 of liabilities left—it lets itself
off the chain and hands out fat dividends again.
Lately it has resumed the loan business and hopes
thereby to make enough to induce the shareholders
to forget and possibly forgive. But on a capital of
£45,000 and reserves of £16,126, a very extensive
loan business is out of the question; and until the
brake is put on dividends the reserves will never be
much help. Good progress has been made as re-
gards getting rid of the suburban holdings, though
most of the sales have been made at below even
written-down values. Of the £41,275 now on hand
the Glebe Estate accounts for £34,500, the Waterloo
Estates for £6725, and the balance is in suburban
property, the total rent for 1913 being £5208.


“Must be a time slip missing”—your bookkeeper
can’t understand how this month’s engine-room cost
comes so low. He thinks someone’s time hasn t
been turned in. But you know why it is low.
Your engineer knows why. You know that the extra
run of the machines that was needed formerly has
been cut by the perfect gripping and non-slipping
of “Pioneer'” Leather Belting—the belting that kept
your pullevs running at full speed every working
minute of' the last month, cut your engine-room
cost and puzzled your bookkeeper. The good news
of profits conserved and built up by this superior
transmission belting has been actually proved to the
owners and managers of the sugar mills in Fiji and
North Queensland, the mines in Kalgoorlie and
Broken Hill —the timber mills in Southern Tasmania.
Will your factory profit by their experience? Made
of the centre cuts of the strongest Australian leather
which are oak-tanned in our tannery, and built up
with best materials and along lines that our 55
years’ belt-building experience has taught us is best.
Every foot of “Pioneer” leather belting pulls, and
we guarantee to replace, free of charge, any length
that fails through defect in material or workman-
ship. Let us send you samples and pieces ot
“Pioneer.” It is made only by J. 0. Ludowici and
Son Ltd., “Pioneer Works,” 117 York Street, Sydney
Sold direct or through our inter-State agents in all
principal cities. Melbourne: Geo. Russell Pty* Ltd,
Flinders Street. Adelaide: J. McKell, Timpson
Street. Brisbane: Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd.
Perth: Horace H. Summer, Howard Street. Broken.
Hill: Geo. C. Dempster, Argent Street.*
* * * *
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S;.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the*
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed!
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,.
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
• * * •
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yds. of
road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yd., and the cost of the spalls per cub. yd. averaged
2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub. yd.,
broken and spread. Their last contract under the
hand-breaking system amounted to 6s. Sd. per cub.
yd., stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is.; ■
total 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yd. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [3
Extract from Financier, dated London, September
2, 1911: “The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society is well recognised as an institution which
typifies the enterprise and energy of the land of its
birth, and not only in Australasia but in Great '
Britain and South Africa it has proved itself, one
of the most progressive of the great Life Offices.”*
» * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is the cheapest efficient
pressure pipe. It does not corrode nor rust, carries
all fluids without taint, and lasts indefinitely, with
practically no cost of upkeep. Catalogue with prices,
freights, formulae and tables, from The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., 57 York Street, Sydney (Head Office.).*
* * * *
Amongst orders received since the New Year by
our Brisbane Branch are the following Suction and
Towns Gas Engines: Geo. Stupart, Esq. ; Maryborough,
49 b.h.p., for Electric Lighting; Mackay Harbor
Board, 43 b.h.p., for Stone Crushing; Dr. Voss, Rock-
hampton, two —each 17 b.h.p., for Electric Lighting;
R. H. Treweeke, Goondiwindi, 17 b.h.p., for Sheep-
shearing ; Mrs. Devaney, Gladstone, 13 b.h.p., for
Electric Lighting; whilst at the present time they are
erecting a 73 b.h.p. Suction Gas Engine and Plant
for Messrs. Harris and Co., Rockhampton, for Electric
Lighting purposes. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., Mel-
bourne, Sydney and Brisbane.*
* » » *
The highest returns for all kinds of residues are
obtained from Harrington’s Ltd., of 386 George-
street, Sydney, who buy large quantities of jewellers’
sweeps, polishings, handwash and lemel, process
workers’ residues, plating baths and any other
materials containing gold, silver or platinum. Assays
are executed for jewellers within two or three hours,
and prospectors and others are assured of immediate
attention. All kinds of analytical and metallurgical
work can be executed promptly, and advice given on
all branches of industrial chemistry and metallurgy.
The whole of the work is directed by a qualified
analyst and metallurgist from Johnson & Sons, Lon-
don, Assayers and Refiners to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, the Council of India, etc., etc. Direct
shipments of large parcels of sweeps, residues, ores,
etc., can be sent direct to Johnson & Sons by arrange-
ment.*
J. Malcolm Newman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
CLAUDE BRISTOW,* Assayer and Analytical
Chemist. Sampling supervised. 93 Pitt Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in-"stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
H.M.A.S. Australia, now in Australian waters,
is fitted entirely with Babcock and Wilcox Water--
tube Boilers, similar to the H.M.S. New Zea-
land and other Dreadnoughts recently built for the .
Admiralty.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.:
Colhson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and !
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
» * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write ■
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,.
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning-
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s;:
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to- •
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to .
1/13000 grain ; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000 ■
grain ; weight; pocket transits; gasoline combination •.
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals; etc.*
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (LIMITED)
The LARGEST and STRONGEST
Trustee Company in Australasia.
Acts as
Trustees of Wills and
Settlements.
The CHARGES ARE LOW, and the
Management is in the hands
of Experts.
A Booklet setting out its methods and
Charges will be sent on application.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY.
ALL USERS OF POWER
can materially reduce Working
Expenses by Installing a
n
kL
OAS ENGINE and
SUCTION GAS PLANT.
Write for Catalogue to [1
Scottish House, 90 William Street, Melbourne
Kynoch House, 277 Clarence Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
’Phone
CITY—B 332.
Poldi Steel
171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
London Stores, Ltd., which bought a
men’s outfitting business in Melbourne, and started
with various goodwill and other intangible items
representing £26,368 of the capital:—
Towards
Reduction
Written of De- De-
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Off. ficit. fait-
jgjj. ——•— £2oiooo
1912 ..£7,293 Bp.c.= £4200 £3093 23,275
£1666 added to goodwill items . . 24.941
1913 .. 9,702 8 p.c.= 5600 £1596 2506 22,435
1914 .. 11,003 8 ~ „ 5600 704 4699 17,736
Perhaps a better view of the co.’s position is afforded
bv this comparison:—
1912. 1913. 1914.
Sundry creditors .. £7,310 £5,368 £5,526
Goodwill items .. 29,459 25,025 24,325
Sundrj' debtors .. 3,257 3,095 3,230
Stock .. .. 31,237 39,952 37,250
Plant and fittings .. 5,624 6,807 6,332
Cash, etc. .. .. 14,728 6,184 14,086
Thus it will be noticed that intangible assets still
stand at a fairly large amount, £24,325. But
this needs a little explanation. In accordance with
the co.’s articles of association, which stipulate that
each year at least 10 p.c. of the profits available for
dividends must go towards a reserve for replacing
the goodwill items with something more inflammable,
a pretty solid reserve is now being built up. With
the £3OOO to be added out of the past year’s profits,
this reserve will amount to £5245. This is of
course equivalent to writing that amount off the
goodwill, etc. When that item disappears entirely
The Bulletin will be able to look more kindly on
the co.’s accounts. A very bright feature is the
diminutive size of the liabilities ( £5526), and the
handsome amount of cash and more or less liquid
assets, amounting in all to £17,000 odd. When a
co. works almost entirely on its own money like this
it is in the favorable position of being able to pay
cash for its own purchases. And the co., especially
in the retail line, that confines itself to cash pur-
chases, can always give customers a better deal than
the one in which both customers and co. do their
business on long credit. Naturally the co. is begin-
ning to have its share of increased expenses, and
shows a growth in that item from £24,809 in 1911-12
and £35,587 in 1912-13 to £36,539 for the past 12
months. However, gross profits have been moving
along too, and to Feb., 1914, were £47,532, as
compared with £45,289 to Feb., 1913, and £29,991
for the previous 12 months. On a capital of £70,000,
of which a large amount is in goodwill assets, this
is a splendid showing. When the whole of the
capital is represented by solid assets and it is no
longer necessary to take that 10 p.c. bite out of
profits, shareholders should be on a good wicket.
The Bulletin can’t swear as to the quality of the
shirts the London Stores supplies, but it certainly
turns out a very respectable balance-sheet.
* * * *
Broken Hill Proprietary expects to pro-
duce over 40,000 tons for the half-vear ending
May 31. A run of four weeks to April 8 gave 2184
tons lead from its own, and 4482 tons from pur-
chased ore, a total of 6666 tons. The silver output
was 299,9580 z. In 16 weeks this co. has produced
9401 tons of lead on its own account, and 14,629
tons from purchased ore. The smaller quantity of
domestic lead contained 632,9270 z. of silver, while
the purchased ore gave only 571,8230 z. Last month’s
lot of 2184 tons of domestic lead contained
157,7910 z. silver, over 70oz. per ton, and 4482 tons
of lead from purchased ore gave 172,1670 z., an aver-
age of less than 390 z. per ton. The Proprietary also
produced 23,545 tons of zinc concentrates in 16
weeks, containing over 11,000 tons of zinc.
*■*-**
For a run of four weeks the Amalgamated
Zinc (Broken Hill) treated 40,696 tons of tailings
for 11,991 tons of concentrates, assaying 48.6 p.c.
That would mean 4827 tons of zinc, which at
£2l 10s. is worth £103,880. Yet the profit esti-
mated by the co. is only £10,225. Silver values
and 88 tons of lead concentrates are thrown in. If
spelter falls the profit on zinc concentrates will
whittle down some more. But lower prices will do
good if they force the Australian producer—now
taking a miserable profit of 425, per ton of zinc—
to smelt the ore on the Australian seaboard on top
of one of our magnificent coal seams.
* * * *
The Grafton copper mine (N.S.W.) has
a new lens of ore in F level. The ore is high-
grade sulphide for a width of from 3ft. to 4ft. A
winze below this level is down 16ft., with sft. of
ore showing in the eastern end. Smelting has been
started again, so evidently the Grafton isn’t fright-
ened at the low price of copper. The chairman at
the annual meeting remarked that “metal” can be
produced for £37 ss. per ton. Taking “metal” (a
technical term) to mean 62 p.c. matte, the working
cost is £6O per tori of fine copper.
The Iron Duke copper mine in the Dan-
daloo district (N.S.W.) reports a development of
dense sulphide ore 7ft. wide in its new shaft at
the southern end of the lease. Basic ore is required
to flux the silicious ore met with at the 90ft. and
113 ft. levels in the northern section. The 180 ft.
level is regarded as the sulphide zone, but the sul-
phides in the northern section are silicious. So far
no large body of basic ore has been proved. This
mine will be eventually served by the Tullamore-
Tottenham railway, which will cheapen the supply
of coke.
* ♦ * *
From a Queensland oil enthusiast: —
Now that the Queensland Government has nation-
alised the oil industry, it has had a pretty exhaustive
report made by the Government geologist on the
Roma fields. N.S.W. Geologist Carne is alleged to
have put the chances of finding oil at Roma at nil;
however, in W. E. Cameron’s report, on which the
Roma Co. puts a lot of trust, there is more optimism.
It is of course known for certain that large quan-
tities of gas exist underground at Roma, and Cameron
looks hopefully at this. He says: “The fact that at
Roma a second bore, sunk only 234 feet from a bore
which had already flowed gas at the rate of from
40,000 to 70,000 cubic feet annually for 5J years,
itself struck a much more violent outburst of gas at
about the same denth, seems to me to carry great
possibilities for this district in this respect....
This analysis shows that Roma gas is similar in
composition to many of the gases found associated
with oil in die oil fields of America and Baku....
The gas from the Roma Gas Bore had a distinct
‘paraffin’ odor on the occasion of my visit to this
bore in 1904, when it was flowing freely with the
water from the sin. casing... .The discovery of the
Bremen Oil Field (U.S.A.) is a result of the close
association of oil and gas. As is well known, every
oil well is to a greater or less extent a gas well, and
large gas wells are seldom remote from 0i1.... There
seems no geological reason why oil in large quantities
should not be found in the Roma district, and at
much shallower depths than those at which gas was
struck in the Roma bore. The occurrence of this gas
in quantity is a hopeful Indication that deposits of
oil. occur.”
* # * *
For the first three months of this year.
Mount Elliott (Q.) produced 1158 tons of copper,
1840 oz. gold and 23150 z. silver from 11,428 tons of
ore. How long it can maintain a 10 p.c. extraction
is uncertain, because it is drawing its ore from the
parent mine, which is heavily depleted and from out-
side mines, the most important of which, the Hamp-
don Consols, has been only partly developed. With
the MacGregor and Mount Cuthbert lines open for
traffic a decided impetus will be given to mine de-
velopment and customs smelting. The tendency is to
centralise smelting, and it may be to the advantage
of Mount Cuthbert, which has a large quantity of
ore developed, to send it to a central smeltery. The
Corrella Co., with its Rosebud mine, is also con-
sidering a tramway to connect with the MacGregor
line. With regard to development, Mount Cuthbert
is now crosscutting at its Warwick Castle (150 ft.
level) and its Kalkadoon leases with a view to open-
ing up ore at depth. The Kalkadoon has a strong
ore body down to 100 ft., so it will be interesting to
watch development work at the 250 ft. level.
The prospectus of the Young Australia
Copper Mine (Queensland) is about as benevolent a
proposition as The Bulletin has met for
some time. The lease (40 acres) was taken over
20 months ago by the present holders, and “various
parcels returned a percentage as high as 52 p.c., one
parcel going as high as 55 p.c.” Also “there is
about 200 tons of saleable ore at grass averaging
about 15 p.c. to 20 p.c., and 50 tons suitable for
screening of 10 p.c.” Total, 35 tons of copper, at,
say, £65 per ton = £2275. And presumably there
is any amount of untouched ore. The mine can be
worked for £2O to £25 a week, it is “fairly well
equipped,” and there is a plentiful supply of water.
There are to be 50 shares of £lO each, the vendors
to take four of them as well as the cash realised
from the other 46. In other words, they are asking
only £460 in cash and four £lO shares for a pro-
perty like that 1 This paper is always ready to take
off its hat to real philanthropy when it meets the
article.
* * * •
Quite the brightest thing in Gympie
mining at present is the success of McLeod’s New
Wilmot, which has been plugging away quietly for
many months past, and developing effectively on
sound mining principles. During this period of its
existence much caustic criticism was heaved at
McLeod’s by the large army of Gympie experts—and
there are more amateur mining geologists to the
square foot in Gympie than in any other mining
camp on earth. But McLeod’s has survived it all,
and during the past six months gold worth £4600
has been won from stone averaging 15dwt. (including
one crushing under 9dwt.). It is now proposed to
erect another 30 head of stamps, with a view to
more economical working. The reports generally are
refreshing compared with the usual Gympie stuff.
* * * *
Lode Hill (Bloomfield River, N.Q.)
shareholders are very optimistic, and on the strength
of the first run which gave 21-J tons, expect an annual
yield of 250 tons of black tin or thereabouts. Lode
Hill is rather an out of the way camp, so it seems a
risky thing to value black tin (72 p.c.) at more than
£lOO per ton, at which the 250 tons would be worth
£25,000. On 100,000 shares, the much talked of
Is. per quarter will cost £20,000 a year, so that the
mine would need to show a profit of £20,000 from
tin worth £25,000. The co. calculates working
costs at 3d. per cubic yard, and its yield at lib.,
and on that basis one ton can be produced for £2B.
But £BO per ton profit is required to bring in
£20,000 from 250 tons of stream tin, so the Is. a
quarter doesn’t look very safe. The latest report is
that there is a 70ft. face, plenty of water, and all
looking well. It would require to look well to stand
a capitalised value of £85,000.
* * * *
New Langi Logan, Ararat (Vic.), mainly
on account of cheap expert opinion, went into Easter
vacation mournfully. No. 1 rise workings haven’t
swung right into 2oz. dirt like the Cathcart and the
Central Cathcart, and drives are not properly into
the wash yet. A change was expected when No. 2
rise got up into the high reef, but “Bill” Toole
so far hasn’t reported bags of gold, as he isn’t
in the wash far enough to scrape up a decent
bucket-full off the bottom.
* * * *
Tom Birkbeck’s barge at Toora, South
Giopsland (Vic.), is at work groping in the tailings
left there a decade ago. But as the men then knew
as much about tin sluicing as the new-comers there
can’t be much profit till new ground can be reached.
When that will happen isn’t clear, for no one appears
to know where the old-timers knocked off. The de-
lay has used up most of the available cash, so
London has had to pass the hat round among hope-
ful shareholders in order to furnish another £15,000,
which means adding to an already overloaded share
register. It is rumored that there is an offer from
an influential quarter to underwrite the issue; but
at what cost The Bulletin can’t say just yet.
* *■ * *
Victorian dredging cos. are up against fur-
ther worries. Drysdale Brown, who runs the Mines
Department, has evidently been frightened by the re-
port of the Sludge Commission. So he pastes up a
notice that in future every covenant in a dredging
lease must be fulfilled. That wouldn’t have been so
bad if Brown hadn’t been the leading light of the
Charlotte Plains and other Bull alluvial shows
that didn’t observe all the conditions of the leases
during the long years they had to struggle with
adversity.
i * » *
For March Tongkah Harbor (Siam) pro-
duced 107 tons 7cwt. of tin concentrates. This
brings the half-year to a close under conditions
slightly less favorable for profit making than the 12
months to Sept. 30. The output for that period
was 1339 tons of concentrates, averaging
£llB 7s. Id. per ton. Royalty has to be paid to the
Siamese Government, so that tin is sold under less
favorable conditions than in Australia. An average
profit of £5O is required on 300 tons of concen-
trates per quarter to pay 2s. per share ( £15,000).
Tongkah may maintain an average of 100 tons of
oxide per month, but it is too much to expect high
yields and high prices all the time. In spite of the
heavy slump in the metal during the last 12
months shares have risen from 365. to 475. since
January. Future payments include the redemption
of debentures in June, 1915, the purchase of No. 6
dredge‘for about £26,000, and a balance of £10,500
due to the Siam Government. Dividends declared
to date total 295. per £1 share.
* * * *
Law, jam and leather stand sponsors for
the Trong Tin No-Liability in the persons of J. S.
Meagher, A. W. Palfreyman, and D. T. Bedggood.
The promotors are the Perak Rivers Tin Co., whoever
they might be, though it is known that those three
are interested. The Perak Rivers Co., like the
promotors of the Debook and the Austral Malay, are
not over-modest in their requests, and of 60,000
shares take 30,000, besides £2500 in cash. This is
in exchange for 720 acres, of which 150 acres are
reported by R. T. Hagger to average 2.361 b. of tin
oxide per cubic yard, and 180 acres to go lib. per
cubic yard. The ground is all virgin, which makes
the proposition more attractive. Judging by Tom
Horton’s check boring it doesn’t look as though there
will be the slightest difficulty in bringing off a
float.
To the end of March Radium Hill (S.A.)
had completed one half of the English order for
£l4OO worth of radium. For 14 days to March 28,
10 tons 16cwt. of concentrates were produced, but
no mention is made of results. The No. 2 shaft is
down 150 ft., and at 142 ft. there was an improve-
ment in the ore. The lode is now 4ft. wide, with
well defined walls.
Taking everything into consideration,
Mount Lyell did well to produce 3433 tons of blister
copper last half-year, and the dispatches, totalling
3517 tons to Port Kembla, will give the half-year’s
profit a lift. Still, it requires to increase the out-
put of ore and metal for there are so many shaves
that the Is. 3d. distribution calls for over £Bl,OOO.
The directors cannot screw that amount out of 3433
tons of blister; but there has been a considerable
profit, and Lyell’s superphosphate works may do a
good deal towards paying the next dividend. Ap-
proximately 165,594 tons of ore were treated last
half-year, of which 59.981 tons came from North
Lyell.
* * * *
The post-mortem of the Tasmania mine,
Beaconsfield, has been placed by the Tasmanian
Government in the hands of W. H. Cuhdy, of Bendigo,
and J. K. Fawcett, of Sydney. But whatever they
say isn’t likely to count for anything in the face of
the advice of Manager Heathcote and of John
Taylor’s man to draw the pumps. Of course if
Launceston has the balance of power it may be able
to deal with the balance of surplus assets as it likes.
But that won’t keep Bull in hand, and Bull comes in
useful when there’s a bill to pay.
* * * *
Edna May Central’s recent development is
expected to add considerably to the ore reserves; or,
rather, its local supporters say so. The ore struck
appears to be a continuation of that worked in the
Edna May East, where it is declared to be worth
15dwt. over a width of 14ft. In view of the doubts
that are being expressed as to the ability of the new
mill to keep going for any length of time when
crushing starts, it would be interesting to know how
much developed ore is available in the Central for
treatment. An independent report would best settle
this point.
* * * *
Bar One (W.A.) : I have come to the fol-
lowing conclusions in respect to the Edna May: (1)
That the developed ore in sight is equivalent to
about 30s. per share in dividends and to eight or nine
months’ mill supply; (2) that the co.’s policy of
development has been a dawdling one, and, if per-
sisted in, may land it in a fix sooner than its worst
detractor predicts; (3) that the granite menace isn’t
at present serious; (4) that it is nearly time the
Board thought about installing a rock-drilling plant.
At present there is not an air-drill on the mine, and
if hard ground was unexpectedly struck the show
would soon be up a tree as regards development. It
is simply juggling with fortune to buy into a mine
whose shares are quoted at over 300 p.c. premium,
but whose actual reserves are only some few months
ahead of the mill. Of course the good developments
that are now taking place in the bottom must not be
forgotten when reckoning market valuation, but at
the present price of shares the value of these seems
to have been more than anticipated by the market.
* * * *
Mararoa (W.A.) has gone to Holden’s
Find in search of something new. Some money is
to be spent on boring shows now held under option
by the Ruby Well Options syndicate, and if any-
thing worth dangling before the eyes of the Adelaide
and Melbourne public is met with, a new co. is to be
formed to work it. A good deal of optimism is still
being indulged in regarding Holden’s, but the opinion
expressed about it in back numbers of this paper
is still adhered to. If Holden’s is the only place
left in the West in which moneyed cos. like the
Mararoa can look for new shows, the State, as a
field for mining speculation, must be crumbling very
fast.
* * * *
Mary Mac. (W.A.) fancies itself for hav-
ing dodged reconstruction, but wait awhile. The
working account for the last six months shows a
loss of £527; £1360 is owing to the bank, £205
to sundry creditors, and all the co. had in
the cupboard when the books closed was £4OO.
Tribute royalties are being relied on to pull it out
of the mud, but with a patchy show and a reef, more
likely than not to cut out at a shallow depth, as a
standby, its chances appear slender.
*** . *
Westralia’s gold output for March tumbled
10,000 oz. compared" with February of this year, and
5000 oz. compared with March of 1913. Locally the
fall is regarded as being “disappointing and inex-
plicable,” but it can be accounted for by the stop-
page of returns at the Associated Northern’s Ora
Banda show, the three weeks’ breakdown of the
Queen of the Hills plant, and reduced yields from the
Ivanhoe and Bullfinch —a fire being the cause of
the former and a creep of the latter.
The Melbourne-controlled Speakmans
Hampton Plains and Melbourne Hampton Plains syn-
dicates are joining forces with a view to floating a
co. to work their W.A. shows on a comprehensive
basis. Both were reported on a few months ago
bv Miller, late of the Long Tunnel, and, according
to him, a reasonable estimate of the probable ore
that would be opened up if certain work was carried
out was 250,000 to 300,000 tons, and the probable
value of two-thirds of this tonnage was given as
7dwt. A little later Miller supplemented this state-
ment bv a remark that the deposit was huge, and its
size could not be grasped by figures. An influential
crowd is at the back of both concerns.
* ♦ * *
Golden Horseshoe Board recently invited
geologist Larcombe, of the Kalgoorlie School of Mines,
to say something about the lower levels of the mine.
Broadly speaking, Larcombe is hopeful about the lode
at depth, and regards the property as the most
favored one on the field. He believes that the felsite
slates which have had such a deleterious influence on
some of the best ore bodies in the district, will not
reach the No. 4 lode opposite the main shaft before
a depth of 3500 ft. is reached, and in any case they
will only be met in Horseshoe ground at much greater
depths than in adjoining mines. As regards the calc
schist which Dr. Maclaren believes will engulf the
productive Kalgoorlie mines, Larcombe assigns a
minimum depth in the Horseshoe main shaft of
5700 ft., at which the rock is likely to be encountered.
All the geological factors, in his opinion, place the
mine, as regards longevity, in the best position on
the Golden Mile, and, as the general pitch of the
shoots is south great hopes are entertained by him
for the southern and middle portions of the property
along the eastern side. _


Heeling's
Est. 1818.
Co
en
en
a ste> «
HEERIMG
DRALLE’S
Illusion Perfumes.
In the Lighthouse.
The ORIGINAL and MODEL of all Floral
Essences without Alcohol. Far surpass
all other Scents in their startling - fidelity
to Nature.
sd
Violet - - 5/6
All Others - 4/6
Obtainable in
Violet, Rose, Jasmine,
Lily of the Valley,
Lilac, Mignonette,
Heliotrope, Narcissus,
Carnation, New Mown
Hay, Trefoil, Wistaria.
At all Leading Stores
and Chemists.
Sole Wholesale Agent—
H. KUYATT, 28 O'Connell Street, Sydney
C OGNAC
OTA R D
Otard-Dupuy & Co. BRANDY
/
Etablis depuis 1795, dans le chateau de Cognac
ou est ne le roi FRANCOIS lelI e I de France.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, April 13, 1914.
My Dear Arini, —
Governor Strickland opened the big
Easter parade of fat st-ock, as soon as the
band had blared forth the National Anthem.
The ancient stand, which cannot be called
“grand” except in the same sense that the
Holy Roman Empire was so described be-
cause it wasn’t holy or Roman or an empire,
was packed with people, who stubbornly kept
their seats for hours before the event in
the hope of hearing something new. In a
grandstand you are exceedingly pleased to
get a humble seat. But the official brain
had poured forth most of its treasures at
the huge feed which always opens the Show
with a corkscrew. President Francis Suttor,
about the best-preserved specimen of 70
summers hereabouts, was in his usual spot
adjacent to the vice-regal elbow.
The Stricklands’ victoria, with Lady Ede-
line, accompanied by various official dames
who hopped in and out of the seat of honor,
trotted into the middle of the Show ground.
Beef, in a magnificent bellowing and belli-
cose circle garnished the outer circle of the
emerald green ring. It stood more or less at
ease, being held by an unsympathetic ring
in its nose, and butted the air, or main-
tained a haughty bovine calm, according to
its _ temper. Satin-skinned draught horses
whisked a two-inch tail apiece, tortured into
a ribbon bob, and sidled round their keepers,
while the Strickland kindergarten ambled all
over the place to see things.
Admiral Patey brought his wife along to
see the Show officially torn open. She is a
slender, dark-eyed woman, with a smile like
a small benediction, and was draped like an
attractive fashion plate in bright pink—the
plain, uncompromising pink the Futurist
hurls at a yard of canvas. Flag-Lieut. Poe,
a much larger man than the average official
shadow to a naval frill, wore his silk hat at
the same saucy angle as the tile that was
perched on the W. G. Layton brow.
Prime Minister Joe Cook and his lady
came over here for the great Horse carnival.
He is thinner than of yore, and wears the
hurried, anxious expression of a politician
who is for ever in pursuit of his majority of
one, lest it should fall ill by the way or trip
over a moving tram. Mrs. Joe is a tall,
strong-minded-looking dame, given to no-
nonsense millinery. Something that might
have been mistaken for a yard and a half
of greenish-blue Liberal plank was set side-
ways on to Mrs. Prime Minister’s determined
black hat the other afternoon. This
is the general effect of the new autumn
headgear, but it has to be worn with dis-
cretion.
The John Madden family, of Victoria, is
so distractingly alike in its sleek, well-fed
contour that when it makes its biennial
descent on Sydney it has to be carefully
sorted out to avoid wrong labels. Mrs. Pat
Osborne, one of the flock, was promptly
recognised at the Show the other day by a
certain heaven-born dimple in one cheek.
With her was her cousin, Mrs. Tony Hor-
dern, in a light, summery frock, top-dressed
by a bewitching little hat of the soft,
squashy species.
Miss Alice McCulloch, mounted on her
magnificent grey gelding, “Wait-and-See,”
was the star woman rider at the Show in
spite of the fine horsemanship of Mrs. Stace,
who is still faithful to the side-saddle. If a
lady swallow could ride astride in a per-
fectly-tailored divided coat, put her toes into
riding boots, and her head into a bowler
hat shaped like a rather flat pudding basin,
she would probably take the fences in the
same flight as this girl with the bird-like
habit of skimming timber. Sydney can
spare three cheers for a Victorian, who was
acclaimed by two very horsey Englishwomen
the other day as “the finest woman rider
astride they had ever seen either in Britain
or on the Continent.”
The pace at which most of the jumps were
taken in the show ring was too slow for
cross-country riding. Possibly it was the
comparatively leisurely attack of “Wait-and-
See” on the fences that lost Alice McCulloch
the blue ribbon and sent her off with second
prize in the Lindeman Cup event. She was
a winner in other contests, and a long way
ahead of competition in her style and velvet
hands on her horse’s mouth.
Even a city woman can lift up her pen
and make it kick against the greed which
has exported most of the best horseflesh in
this State, and left the strain so deteriorated
that importations get a majority of the show
prizes. Many of the gee-gees in some of the
ring events were a weedy-looking lot, and,
besides, bore external proofs of mighty littl?
grooming in their shabby coats. The Welsh
cob got its muscle up long ago climbing hills
like the sides of steeples with Llewellyn, and
his harp, and his family Bible, and his wife
on its back. Sometimes it is even driven to
walk head-downwards on the roof of things,
so inverted is the country. This animal
from St. David’s land is coming into fashion
here, and is a handsome, sturdy, little beast
suited to rough country. Bachden-Dewr, the
cob from Gwent, owned by S. E. Roberts, of
Barwang, got away with a first prize in
last week’s clatter of hoofs at Moore Park.
A Master of Horse to the King of Siam
was one of the non-official exhibits at the
Show. The King of Siam is not a tremen-
dous personage as royalties go, outside his
mahogany-colored realm. But he keeps up a
certain amount of state round his dusky per-
son, and a Master of Horse is a fine up-
standing title to help things along. When I
become really affluent I intend to hire one to
cook, and water the pot plants and do odd
jobs about the house. The Siamese visitor,
clad in the garb that accompanies a black
silk hat, made a dignified progress round the
opening fuss at the Show. He was shadowed
by a European secretary—the King’s shadow
and the King’s shadow’s shadow. Again I
make a good Easter-time resolution. When
great wealth comes my way I will have a
dignified secretary, who will take in the meat
at the back gate in three languages.
Having unfortunately mislaid the name of
our recent visitor —the King of Siam’s
Master of Horse —I am forced to take refuge
in his royal employer’s nomenclature. This
is Chowfa Maha Vajirawah, whose decease
will not be unduly mourned by his heir-pre-
sumptive, Chowfa Chakrapongse Poowanarth.
These words have to be kept “right side up
with care,” and when they are unloaded from
the train the trunk containing them must not
be dashed down recklessly on the platform.
For if the trunk should burst, and the cog-
nomens escape and spread in a thin blue
haze over the city, so that the inhabitants
would be wading knee-deep in Siamese desig-
nation, not even the best dentists, surgeons,
physicians and herbalists can foretell the
consequences.
Race Week opened on a day of blue and
gold, an Easter Saturday which even the
grandfather of grumblers couldn’t have found
fault with. The clothes which paraded up
and down the lawn—the wearers don’t seem
to count on these occasions—were not ad-
dicted to many frenzies. A bright purple-
clad woman hung with ropes of beads about
her skirt was out for notice, and got it.
Plaid in subdued tartans jerked itself into
frivolous bows, as on pretty Mrs. Jim Gor-
don’s hat, or toned down to a mere sugges-
tion as in the dark blue silk worn by Mrs.
Steer Bowker with a chic black velvet hat
that was a kind of millinery Napoleon
junior. Mrs. Tom Rolin, who has a liberal
share of the Bowker good looks, being a
daughter of the late medico of that name,
swathed in filmy black, showed us how to
wear a striped silk waistcoat without undue
bulginess. Mrs. Phipps Waugh, who is a
handsome blonde, was frocked in the vivid
shade of blue that is like a small, deep pool
of sea water. She was with her sister, Mrs.
E. Waters, of Melbourne. One of the Philip
Morton girls, in black, had her head firmly
squeezed into the new flyaway toque species.
Sydney’s Mayoress, Mrs. Richards, and Mr.
Mayor were a smiling contribution to the
officials present.
McPhillamys, Campbells (of Inverell),
McMasters and the innumerable Osbornes
can be mentioned by the hundredweight
or ton this Easter. The woolly Mcßeans
from somewhere on the Deniliquin sheep
plains are in town for the horse
melee. The Bucklands, from Pine Ridge
and the Jim Allisons, of Coomoo-
Coomoo station, have been here for quite a
while. And several carefully-assorted
samples of the Ryrie family who are mostly
in the sheep business, and the usual sprinkle
of naval frills, may be gazed on free of
charge by anyone who paces the Randwick
turf this week.
A curious feature of the average man’s
attitude towards a modern race meeting in
this settlement is his go-as-you-please
clothes. The top-hat and frock-coat, pepper
and salt etceteras, white spats, and other
trimmings of the old-time dandy are by no
means extinct. They are infrequent, but they
still linger on the face of the earth.
Opposition-leader Wade, who has inad-
vertently caught the new figure—the ingenue
slump—goes to a race meeting in the same
kind of loose grey drapery which he wears
when he peers into the empty Government
Treasury. Ex-M.L.A. Wood has also taken
to the Anyhow garb of daily toil. His pretty
missus (a daughter of the General
George French who never did any-
thing of any startling importance worth
mentioning in this State), on the con-
trary, is always decked in graceful
finery. Solicitor Alfred Nathan was about
the best-groomed male in the legal fratern-
ity who stamped round the betting trees.
Barrister Arthur Kelynack trusted to a hur-
ried looking serge to see him safely through. It
is part of the arduous occupation of being a
woman to go forth and spend all that she
has, or that her husband has, or that both of
them have not, on race-week rags. There-
fore a full and detailed account of the un-
brushed unimportant duds in which Man
leads forth his gorgeously-attired seraglio,
would make a restful break in the yards of
ink devoted to female clothes.
The Downes family, from Brov -low Hill,
near Cobbitty, are in town for the madding
Easter whirl. Mrs. Downes, junior, the new
bride, tripped round the members’ stand at
Randwick the other afternoon with her good-
looking sister-in-law, Ethelwyn. She was
decked in an attractive frock of oyster-col-
ored skimmer, dashed with Bulgarian em-
broidery.
The cheeky-looking Sports’ coat, which
reminds one of the old illustrations in some
of Anthony Trollope’s stories —surely Lily
Dale ate syllabub on the lawns at Allington
with a garment of this kind about her slo-
ping shoulders —made several appearances at
Randwick this meeting. On Saturday Mrs.
Ivenna wore one of these autumn frivolities
in periwinkle blue, over a light frock, and
top-dressed the lot with a small hat of gold-
plaited straw. This 1914 species of milli-
nery is generally fashioned rather like
the early Victorian cottage bonnet, and is
first cousin twice removed to the coal-scuttle
of the same period. The latter made a meek
appearance on the first race day, being about
half the size of its great-great-grandmother.
One hat of this persuasion bristled in front
with a fierce display of floriculture. Mrs.
J. J. Rouse had popped her dark hair into a
less aggressive scuttle, and lynx-eyed spec-
tators saw no reason to weep at the result.
Fur, which used to be a serious affair
solemnly affixed to solid matter, is now a
light and fluffy adjunct to ninon and similar
frothy materials. Race-week finery lingers
in the alluring realm of the floating trans-
parencies that marked the summer fashions,
in spite of a sub-layer, so to speak, of
winter goods. The leopard, however, lent
his spots to the Randwick lawn in limited
supplies. Two or three long, furry leopard
drapes, attended by large muffs and accom-
panied by partially-submerged females,
trailed across the sward on the first race day.
But they gave the wearers (who were sup-
ported by the knowledge that no one ques-
tioned the fiendish expense of the goods)
the hurried look of having seized a few fur
mats and dragged them out for an airing.
The female head which has supported
everything, from a bang with a club to a
Paris hat, is now indulging in a small mil-
linery entrde —a mere snack of the tottering,
feathery monuments of October. The latest
indiscretion is not so tame as it looks at a
first glance. Sideways on, it supports a
huge silk or velvet bow, about the size of a
semaphore arm. One of these last yelps of
fashion —a dark-brown affair —snuggled
down on the Mrs. Alec Hay’s trim head the
other day. It outclassed anything in the
way of a bow that came near it, and was
followed bv the respectful gaze of less hatted
dames.
Miss Alice Franklin, who has been diving
deep into social and educational work in
London, is here for a while. She is a niece
of Postmaster-General Herb. Samuel, in the
Asquith team, but is otherwise not specially
interested in the domestic habits of stamps.
Mrs. Pritchard Bassett and her small
daughter are out of town dabbling in the
toy waves that lap a quiet cove on the South
Coast.
The Women’s Industrial Section at the
Easter Show was better housed than at any
previous exhibition in the Agricultural
Grounds. It is never ready on the opening
day. No one who has any experience of the
history of this female effort at the autumn
Hide and Hoofs display expects anything
but fancy-work chaos till the Show has
settled down to business. Well housed and
carefully arranged, the Women’s 1914 ex-
hibits had every chance of extracting the ad-
miration of the multitude who poured them-
selves in to hang over shiny glass cases.
But the generally uninteresting specimens
of feminine industry, and the dull plod along
the same old useless rut, only proved for the
millionth time that Woman is a crusted
conservative. Year after year she wears out
her eyesight and toils to turn out work that
nobody—outside a church bazaar—really
wants.
The wild and woolly gauds of a year or
two ago have been lopped out of this sea-
son’s milder nuisances. The old-time terrify-
ing adventures into “Art” are also missing,
though the small and feeble section entered
as “fashion plate drawing” deserves a brick
to itself. Paper flowers, my sisters, are not
buried (as one believed) in the hecatombs of
horsehair sofas and waxwork fruit. They
reared their mid-Victorian petals in the
Women’s Work pavilion at the Show. Only
one patchwork quilt—folded up to conceal its
inside —put in a meek appearance.
The crazy-work cushion is still
extant. It showed its fierce nobs to
the public gaze as another proof that
Woman considers life too short to 101 l
in comfort. The knitted or ' crochet
bedspread first prize went to Mrs. Susan
Palser, who certainly earned it by her ant-
like industry. Her exhibit vaguely suggested
to me the coral creature which spends thou-
sands of years and thousands of generations
in making an inch of coral bedspread at
the sea-bottom, and dies happy with its
fraction of the work accomplished, and is
drowned with its fathers.
Miss M. Davies snatched a reward
also for some eye-aching cross-stitch
fancy work. Mrs. G. W. Mitchell
was one of the most satisfactory ex-
hibitors. and a piece of Chinese appliquti
lace, which must have cost the worker much
patient graft, was a prize winner. Rug
wool mats were perpetrated by Miss God-
dard. Miss Ivy Mobbs got away with a first
for a valiant attack on fine lingerie stitchery
with a machine. Mrs. J. J. Malony used
her fingers for a similar garment, and
emerged with a first-prize placard.
The new gilt-edged ballroom in the ex-
Imperial Rink (William-street) is to open-
by invitation —on April 20, under the awe-
inspiring name, “Imperial Salon de Luxe.”
In spite of unreliable rumors to the con-
trary, Mrs. Cecil Youl says she is not pack-
ing up for the British rainfall —not just yet,
anyhow. Tassy’s Isle is her present destina-
tion. The brisk lady who has been a vital
spark at the Women’s Chatriotic Club, left
for Hobart on Saturday.
A meeting of the infant Australian Opera
League is going to cut its teeth on the pro-
ject of a women’s committee, on April 22.
Mrs. Mayoress Richards will watch over
the preliminary struggle in her official den on
that afternoon. The baby Opera League is
almost bursting its sides with rosy visions
of future greatness. It is likely to want
about £20,000 to make a decent start, I
imagine, if half the fearsome tales of for-
tunes lost in grand opera be true. In the
meantime it has £lOO or so to go on with. Pos-
sibly it feels like the humble toiler who has
already paid 2s. 6d. on the £6O piano which
his daughter, now aged two, is to play on
when she grows up.
Engineer Fred Gibbes has persuaded
pretty Marjory Henderson —the only
daughter of the Louis Hendersons, of Edge-
cliff-road —to say “yes.” The wedding will
take place in June, and the moon may be
spent at Kosciusko. The groom-to-be is a
son of the late squatter Gibbes, of Yarra-
lumla, in the Canberra area, where there are
rabbits in the water supply.
Sky-pilot G. McDonald, formerly attached
to the Commonwealth Forces, is now chap-
lain in charge of souls on 11.M.A.5. Tingira.
Artist Phillips Fox and his wife are going
to turn their palettes this way in June. In
that month of short days the artistic duet
will give another show here before going to
Tahiti. There they can paint nature adorned
by a hibiscus flower behind its ear.
Contralto Eva Champion, a one-time pet
lamb of the Girls’ Realm Guild, is appar-
ently going to settle down again in the tents
of Sydney. (Eva is Mrs. Wilson in non-
professional hours.) She ought to under-
stand the business she is getting into with
another vocal instructor — i.e., teaching
singing—for the Guild handed out a good
deal of cash to pay for her training in
London. There, the Girls’ Realm prot€g6e
had her vocal aspirations carefully tended
by a Greek gentleman with a name like an
insurrection of all the fishermen in Thessaly.
This is a busy week, and I haven’t time to
discover whether they do fish in Thessaly.
The Billyard-Leake pair, who used to be-
long to this slice of the map, have been head-
lined at various Eastpr frivols, with the
appendix (England) let in as a postscript.
I forget where the Leake comes from —per-
haps it sprung in the lady’s family—but he
belongs to a well-known clan named Billyard
which used to keep the hospitable latch on
the click at Elizabeth Farm on the Parra-
matta River. This roomy old place had
something of a history. Didn’t John Mac-
arthur walk over there one fine morning to
show a friend some of the first baa lambs in
the then baby colony?
Mrs. Douglas Mackenzie’s impressive pro-
file loomed through a white lace on the
opening day at Randwick. This veteran
society campaigner, who is just back from a
pleasant jaunt on the other side, is mother-
in-law to various eligibles, the most glaringly
rich being Russell Clarke, of the Victorian
millionaire family.
Doiipthea Spinney, an English reciter of
the Modern Emotional cult (this is in no
way related to the Higher Criticism), has
just blown into this port, after giving a few
samples of her prowess in Melbourne.
Archibald Strong the Uni. lecturer on litera-
ture over there, says that Dorothea’s acting
moved him, possibly more than anything of
the kind he has yet seen in Australia.
Strong, who is not given to hysterics, has a
Voice which counts when he hurls honeyed
praise at ladies who tackle Greek drama,
mercifully translated by Gilbert Murray.
Dorothea’s version of “The Trojan Women,”
without any assistance from the scene-
shifter, is said to take warm flesh on its
classic bones.
What is now called in Paris the “one
blotch” woman is quite likely to become a
habit here this winter. A cherry-colored lady
with hair to match her dress, hat, shoes and
hose, is, for instance, “one blotch.” (I sup-
pose this is Futurist language, and ought to
be framed.) She’s going to liven up the
landscape during the short days that fall
into the night before the homing trains
leave the city.
Miss Bud Neill, a daughter of the late
banker William Neill, of this town, went off
to the land of the early rising Jap, the other
day.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME,
Chunder Serenading Spanish Lady.
I
n
w*
r'V
nr
t A*
\ m
_* /.
2
A
5®
*>-
££
1 e*
X//'
J-M
m
%?&, I
m
m
Wf.
m
%'£i
***
I
IjfcVr
8*
K
m;
fj
£2*^3
£■ •£ >-i
%
<
4r>r
V'
Mlg
. -T
I!
&U?
HnQ
IK
r>
<4-
V 5
7f
B
§
-»«%■
I
4
te.
f ua
Gw
J
' X
bsn} £' £_.
€$
Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo
Serenades a
Lady who
Has no right
To lean and smile
But his polished
Ways beguile.
H ear his glad,
Romantic strain
In this sunny
Land of Spain :
“ Senorita !
Eyes of thine
“ Are as bright
As COBRA shine


Smart Looking
Farmer’s Golf Shirts are made for sporting
wear. They have the necessary natty appearance,
are cut for comfort and display a smartness all
their own.
Farmer’s Golf Shirts are supplied in strong,
perfect laundering French Cambric, in neat Blue
or Black Stripes on White grounds, also in Blue
and White Block Stripes; have soft fronts and
soft double cuffs.
Price 5/6 each, or 3 for 16/-
Farmer’s pay carriage to any part of Australia.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY,
Pitt, Market and George Streets,
FARMER'S GOLF SHIRTS,
IT’S LIKE PLAYING HAMLET and leaving out
the Prince of Denmark to buy Penduplicate Books
not supplied with “Zanetic” Pen-copying paper. If
security is valued, and permaneney of copy desired,
it is VITAL to be sure you are supplied with
“Zanetic.” Copies that fade are useless. “Zanetio”
paper ensures permaneney of copy, whilst the latter
is denser and more distinct than the original. Of all
Stationers, or from Makers, S, B, Zanetio, Wei ford-
road, Leicester, England. Sample sheet, 2d. post free. *
«5-
\/
Jnc
(.6)
Wringer
Rollers
Re~
Rubbered
From j
...THE...
Dunlop Rubber Co.
make a speciality of this
Repair Work, and guaran-
tee their Roller Rubbers to
give better results than the
original ones.
REPAIRS EXECUTED
WITHOUT DELAY.
M 0 M *
PRICES RANGE from SI- ea.
AND UPWARDS, ACCORDING TO SIZE
LIST ON APPLICATION.
m
DUNLOP
RUBBER
CO.
MELBOURNE
SYDNEY
ADELAIDE
PERTH
BRISBANE
WELLINGTON
CHRISTCHURCH
pm
Wi
A
SS-
Hs
He
Best
for
Comfort ■
Tired Feet
can easily be avoided by using
DUNLOP
RUBBER HEEIS
They not only absorb all
jarring, but outwear several
pairs of leather Heels ::::
VARIOUS STYLES. ALL BOOT SHOPS.
ACCEPT ONLY “ DUNLOP ** BRANDS.
lunlop rubber co.
ALL STATES & N.Z,
Best
for
Wear
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, April 13, 1914.
My Dear Tarrie, —
The ease with which the Denman Loan
Exhibition stuff was gathered shows what
a fine hunting-ground is waiting for the
skilled collector. Perfect treasures were
carted up to Government House from all
sorts of odd corners, and offered to the
secretary apologetically. “It doesn’t seem
to be much good, you know, but I know it’s
old.” Sbme was rubbish, of course, but the
bulk of it was very valuable. Where there
are half a dozen who would cling to their
goods, half a dozen would willingly sell or
even give away. The Exhibition may have
been an awful bother to arrange, but it
brought to light things calculated to make
the heart of a collector jump. Some were
dragged out, covered with grime and candle
grease and ink stains. If the Denman lady
does not carry away to England a fine addi-
tion to her collections, I’ll eat my hat.
(Not my best one with the feather.) ' After
the show opened heaps of articles were
offered. But they are too late to be in-
cluded.
Lady Denman’s Loan Exhibition has been
a draw. The hundreds of people who skir-
mish hopelessly on the outer edge of the
social flock gladly paid their shilling to get
inside the doors and rustle round in full
garden-party rig. The grounds (suggests
the dregs, doesn’t it?) were open to the
aspiring bobites, also the terrace outside the
ballroom and the dustbin at the back door.
A temporary green fence was erected to
block strays from getting down the terraced
steps or climbing through the drawing-room
windows.
A blind woman had a special “view” of
the show, and, of course, was allowed to
ignore the “Must Not Touch” placards.
She got hold of a precious Dutch doll be-
longing to Lady Denman and discovered
small details about its exquisite old dress
with her far-sighted fingers that the owner
had never noticed. The crowd swarmed
all day and every day, and sight-seeing was
always difficult. Tea was served on the
terrace—at a price—and some garden seats
were available. In the show room the
crowd moved round uneasily, in a slow
circle. The only chairs in sight besides
the. precious antiques were the royal-blue
satin, gold-legged things on the dais. How-
ever, these last were tantalisingly corded
up in case anyone might dare to roost in
the sacred place.
Comedienne Daisy Jerome sold pro-
grammes in a business-like way, and smil-
ingly took orders for tea-tickets.
State Governor Stanley added to his list
of vice-regal achievements by opening the
Druids’ Gala and Austin Hospital Bazaar
on Saturday afternoon. The job took
35min. by his Excellency’s repeater, and
then there was the official pilgrimage and
sundry side shows to visit. A dozen gold
and black Druids made escape impossible.
Lady Stanley, in a pale fawn dress with
a low collar ruffle, looked peaky and pale;
perhaps she was worn out with the mad
rush of Premiers’ parties. Mrs. Hennessy,
wearing a blue collar to her dress that
might have been a Druid charm, sat along-
side ; and Mrs. Brenan, garbed in purple,
was also of the circle. When his Ex. had
shouted himself hoarse (he had to shout to
make himself heard), the Chief Something-
or-Other had his say—and it was a long
one.
As an antidote, the Opening Party were
given free seats at an elaborate side show.
After this reprieve the party started on
the futile round of inspection.
A wary crew of stall managers, made wise
by long experience, put little out on its
stalls except hardy kitchenware or dinky
little silk and woollen goods that could make
a respectable re-appearance at any old
bazaar of the future. A Shed de Danse
has been fixed up in one of the long corri-
dors, and the floor has been waxed.
Captain Hughes-Onslow, the imported
naval officer who came to loggerheads with
Naval Board officialdom, did not steam
back to England by the Orama, as he
had originally intended. He means to linger
and see Maoriland before he goes home. The
cheery little man has become a well-known
figure at Menzies’, where he has made a lot
of friends —principally by arguing with
them. It is an effective way of getting to
know people.
Marjorie Raphael is turning her wit
to art and literature these times. Recently
she hostessed a big Sunday lunch gathering
of pen-and-ink personages in the London
world, to celebrate her hubby’s first appear-
ance as a publisher. Norman Raphael, it
seems, has taken up publishing as a hobby—
“not for coin but for the glory of English
literature” —and his young wife is keenly in
sympathy with the enterprise. But his time
is not wholly devoted to the cares of business.
He and Marjorie were about to motor to
Monte Carlo at the invitation of Raphael
pere when last she wrote to her Melbourne
friends.
Dr. Fred Bird’s daughter, Dorrie, entered
into the usual partnership on April 6, Harold
Brookes being the other party. And as
Harold is one of the Brookwood Brookes,
and Dorrie one of the vanguard of South
Yarra, the affair was within an ace of being
arrested for obstructing the traffic in Toorak
and St. Kilda roads. Then, you see, a Fair-
bairn, a Grey-Smith and a Hamilton fluffed
along in cream satin and white fur as brides-
maids, and each brought a different crowd of
friends to watch the show. The presents!
Well really, you know, what with Easter
bazaars and Easter weddings, the Best
People are on the edge of ruin, and have
taken to turning last year’s feather. They
are even wearing their boots a disgraceful
number of times.
Engagements will never cease. The
Gerald Bucklands’ only daughter, Helen, has
caught the craze now. Leslie Rigney, of
Avoca, Tasmania, is the fortunate man. The
girl will have money to roll in and throw
into the air with a shovel, and the wedding
extravagances will be on a suitably arrogant
scale. Before Leslie is a completely mar-
ried man he will think he has joined a cir-
cus.
The widow Galbraith has returned to Mel-
bourne, tired of life in highly-colored Colom-
bo. Perhaps she is also tired of playing a
mother-in-law role in the house of planter
Maddox. Daughter Rhyll Maddox (who got
into her wedding dress last year straight out
of her flapper frocks) is along with mother
for a brief spell of six weeks or so.
Female friends are buzzing and gyrating
round the lately returned Mrs. Donald
McKinnon. They are just crazy to know
how she managed to reduce her figure; but
the lady, who used to be excessively plump,
preserves an egg-like silence and smiles a
Mona Lisa smile as she arranges the new
filmy gowns over her now willowy form. Her
fattest friends burst into tears as they leave
her and call down fat upon her. But the “re-
duced” lady sits unmoved and keeps on with
the Mona Lisa smile.
Leila Cowan, of the Gilmour Cowans, who
squat near Hamilton, is to marry Rudolph
Uren, of the Ballarat family. The Urens
have been associated so long with Ballarat
that some people assert they got there before
the blacks.
Aviator Hawker’s sister is back in these
parts from her honeymooning. The dimpled
young person is now Mrs. Edward (or
Teddy) Smith, and is showing some pretty
trousseau frocks to women callers.
Women from the Western District who
visit Warrnambool every year for the May
horse races have often complained that
their evenings are hard to kill. The men go
off to the local Club and entertain one
another with bottles, while the women have
to sit in the hotel and listen to the potatoes
growing. Sometimes a game of bridge helps
the limping night off the premises, but there
is no certainty about it. This year the old-
time race dance is to be resuscitated on a
liberal scale, with a turkey and champagne
supper to cheer the revellers who don’t
tango.
The few select females who have met
Adela Pankhurst (is her name Adela or
Adelaide?) complain that she is “so quiet!”
Apparently they expected the daughter of
England’s chief she-martyr to give exhibi-
tions of hammer-throwing and be led round
on a chain. Vida Goldstein, her hostess, is
keeping the overseas guest snug and close.
“Perhaps she is getting ready to jar the
new Governor-General,” suggested one
frightened young matron, adding confidenti-
ally, “Vida Goldstein doesn’t approve of
him, you know.”
Ada Reeve held a reception soon after her
arrival last week. The red carpet of cere-
mony poured out of the Tivoli to the kerb in
the most approved manner, while representa-
tives of the rich unemployed, laden with
feathers and flowers crowded into the entry
to wait for H.R.H. (Her Royal Highkicker).
The loungers who own that corner of Bourke-
street expressed their opinion of the invasion
in neat explosive phrases. Ada eventually
arrived wearing grey velvet, furs and a
dazzling smile. Then the reception commit-
tee got them to their boxes while Ada made
a theatrical entry to a red plush draped
stage, and friends were invited to come up
out of the audience and shake hands. It was
diverting to watch the large fat backs of the
Best Fed mounting the Tango-girls’ steps.
Most of the Best have not practised a
stage parade, and they scuttled like sheep in
their efforts to descend again. A tally-man
stood at one corner to prevent them dashing
behind the scenes. The Gaudy Mayoress,
wearing a vestment of black and red brocaded
velvet, emerged from her box and gave Ada
some flowers. Theatrical identities climbed
up and held up the procession while they
made long speeches. One man with the iron-
grey side hair of the melodrama hero got a
double handshake. “She knows ’im!” bel-
lowed an interested onlooker somewhere
near the roof. Lesly Madden pranced
along skittishly, surrounded by a pink
sash and followed by her second, Mrs.
Davidson. That promising boy, R. S.
Smythe, sat in the orchestra stalls and
beamed. Essie Perrin-Kcrouse was among
those present, also the Godfreys, just back
from Fogland. Elsewhere Mrs. Hogan, wife
of one of our naval officers, exhibited her
fine Tasmanian complexion above a grey
cloth dress, and Mrs. Major James was neatly
boxed in some clothes which I have forgotten.
Whatever they were they were adequate.
Subsequently Ada made a speech about some-
thing or other; then she took the managerial
pen with husband Colton, and, much to my
astonishment, the house settled down to en-
joy a vaudeville programme. I had prepared
myself for a prayer-meeting and sermon.
Harry Lauder settled himself in a chair
and said “Umph-umph!” Therefore you
knew he was either Scotch or a camel.
He was wearing a short kilt over very fat,
short legs. The kilt pattern showed only
one tartan, but he told that he has three
—the Macleod, the McLennan and the
Urquhart. (When he says Urquhart he is
so deeply Scotch that you have to guess.
Perhaps after all he said McFlanagan.)
He was also wearing tango shoes of the
newest fashion—the sort that have four
peaks on either side for the lace holes. He
explained that they are the real Highland
footwear and not a copy. Mrs. Lauder is
a dimpled little body named Nancy, who is
just an admiring echo of Lauder. In 10
years or so she has not had time to get
used to the terrific height of her husband’s
popularity and the noise of his press-agents.
About that time ago, Lauder was singing
two sentimental Scotch songs a night at a
London vaudeville show. Then he added a
comic song, and the management soon had
to cut out the sentimental items. Mrs.
Lauder found American manners bewilder-
ing. She said: “You know in London Harry
had an audience with the King” (here a
pretty little bridling of pride), “and when
he appeared first in New York the Ameri-
cans yelled out, ‘Hi, Harry! What sort
of a guy is King George?’ It was no’ a
prupper way to speak of a king!” Then
Harry said “Umph-umph!” again, like
another camel. They suggest a pair of
Barrie characters —very domesticated and
deliberate in all their doings. They would
prefer “lodgin’s,” snug and quiet, instead
of the hotels, if it were not for the adver-r-r-
-tisement. He loves soda scones, and when-
ever his wife gets a chance on tour she
bakes a batch. Then they find a quiet
corner for a happy supper time. The star
adds to his stolid, deliberate look off duty
by wearing glasses. He doesn’t smile (he
has enough of that in “business,” ye ken),
but sucks thoughtfully at his pipe and occa-
sionally makes a dry speech. But mostly
he says “Umph-umph !”
The attraction of weekly Pops for
musical people is in the possibility of a
new voice being Discovered. Pops, such as
the Taits started at Melbourne Auditorium
last winter and are repeating this season,
give the undiscovered voice a chance. The
concerts, apart from one or two well-known
names that guarantee fair value in the pro-
gramme, are rather in the nature of a com-
petition. Any unknown aspirant able to
sing to a certain standard can hope for a
hearing sooner or later. Then it is up to
the aspirant to make good. The other
Saturday an unpretentiously pleasing little
lady—Miss Rosa Alba —made very good at
the Auditorium. An amateurish tenor, Percy
Blundell, also showed promise of doing well
enough on the concert platform; but the
quality of the lady’s voice in trillsome, birdy
ballads was a sweet surprise. Rosa Alba’s
light soprano warble will be talked about on
its present merits, and is certainly
capable of being trained into one of the best.
She sings with a lisp, as naturally as a bird.
The notes are fully musical. The songs she
tried at the first concert were no test of her
temperament—and possibly she has no emo-
tional force —but she will get further oppor-
tunities to prove herself. The new find was
promptly re-engaged and featured in the
next advt.
Professor Orme Masson is to open an
Antarctic picture show at the Guild Hall
after Easter. The show will consist of
photographs of the Scott Expedition, 1910-
1913, taken by scientist Herbert Ponting.
The special private view will happen at
three o’clock on Thursday, April 16.
The Mawson dogs, which panted for a time
at the Delprat house in South Yarra, have
gone to Kosciusko. Personally, I think it
is a pity they did not go to Buffalo —it is so
much easier to spell.
Melbourne Shakspeare Society, which is
bounded on the north by Archie Strong,
M.A., and on the east by Frank Russell,
LL.B., is issuing tickets for a “Birthday
Celebration in aid of the Tercentenary Memo-
rial Fund.” The Tercentenary Fund is un-
derstood, of course, to be a matter con-
nected with the Bard, but tickets don’t state
whose birthday it will be on Wednesday,
April 22. The doubt is divided among the
Society, Strong, M.A., The Immortal Bard
and Russell, LL.B. One or other will have a
dramatic and musical celebration on the
date aforementioned at the Masonic Hall.
Horace Gleeson has put some of E. J.
Brady’s brilliant verses to music. The title
is “Brown Eyes,” but several other varieties
of eye get honorable mention. Brady says
he has a bundle of song-words in his pocket
waiting to be winged with music.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The Harry Duttons suddenly left for London last
week. They took with them naught but two small
sons, a brace of maids, a mass of luggage and some
money. Mr. F. A. Wyatt caught the same boat—a cir-
cumstance which caused much gnashing of teeth, imi-
tation teeth, and even gums. He is one of our
few eligible bachelors.
Oak Bank is crammed, not to say packed. Every
second brick one throws hits a polo-player—which is
one of the many reasons why I have dropped brick-
throwing for the present. Nor is the multitude
confined to mere merrymakers. On Saturday arrove
or transpired that distinguished builder of foreign
railways, Sir William Johns. He is visiting his
sister, Mrs. Pooler, and his niece, Mrs. Cuthbert
Wells. The roads in this neighborhood are dreadful
just now—but then they always are.
Miss Ermyntrude Senden returned from her violin
J® ss ° n , s in Germany °, n Saturday. However, the boat
t“ at brought her took back to Sydney Miss Dorodiy
Luscombe, who has been staying with the Harry
Duttons. So we don’t know whether to laud or
vituperate the wretched vessel.
While the men’s golo dinner was occurring at the
011 Thursday evening, a small feminine
ffi,
hostess, and the wives of the Mount Crawford Polo
CT ul ? as quests. Thus do the new rooms at the Club
justify their existence from the very beginning of
“Xf 'art boom is raging . Mrg . Barringer’s show
was a success, and now Miss Florence Britten has
cards out for a similar affair at the May Club,
w - J - Sowden, of the Register and the Public Library
Board, will open the entertainment on April 20, and
it is believed that Adelaide art-patrons are absolutely
straining at the financial leash in their eagerness to
5 e jL at the Pictures. This is the sort of thing that
differentiates Adelaide from the rest of the world.
B y the way, the artist’s marriage was a great sur-
prise. No one even knew she was engaged till the
wedding was over.
Talking of trouble, invitations for the McEwan-
Gardiner, Moncrieff-Wakelin, Marshall-Hack and
Bakewell-Henderson knot-tyings are all out.
Mr Franeis Belt) a o ne-time Adelaidian, is on a
visit here. He is a chronic traveller and big-game
shooter. The close season for big game being on
in S.A. just now, he is staying quietly with Dr. and
Mra - O’Leary, at Mount Lofty.
There 18 a military encampment at Gawler, and the
resultant excitement and gratification in and around
that hamlet is something terrific. If a Quaker dared
to mar the militarist harmony by his Peace Society
croakings, I verily believe he would be stoned, or, at
anr rate > severely chidden,
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


• J
%? iv . ' ? '>sB&£s4£4&Kk
: S.WW L * Tfi-X-rS
r%
- “
>©?
/ *• "Xf
88*
Vw *£
\ ,t:
ft
• ■
.
. ■ .
■>' ' ■■• ,y ■■
' .
&m&k. • • ,• -v '' ~... * ! .:., ~ &.«
*
~
" /> , ,V '' ** / V
■
\
iHt
. •' *
■
■ H
C ;
* i
7
4
&
'V v ’
ip§
&
F
v «
:
■ . ■ ;■■ > ”
“* ■ * - ' - * ■•'
■•;. :i'.. ■ , ,
m-.....,: rM&asam
4
;
-
i
Uff
i
e
V .# i
■
I
l >i
|
A % e:
*
tlfc
r
«#*
*
m
♦
%
«f*'
♦
;<wwm t
flliir#?* *
r>
«*« 1
X.
r\A
a *i
#P**
0/ ;
/ K
s§p ini
/'
>s •
V, ~V
I '* i
K,!
*♦*
l?J\f < ' * *..i
,^- xf 4 ,y (
tv:
m
f
te- «
V#H* * 'H*VYi
«K*
Copyright. John Dewar & Sons, Ltd.
Joseph Simpson, R.B.A.
Just a wee deoch an doris, Just a wee drap, that 9 a f
Just a wee Johnny Dewar, Afore we gang awa’.
There’s a wee wifie waitin’, In a wee but an ben;
If ye can say, “It’s a braw bricht moonlicht nicht,” It’s been real Dewar’s ye ken.
sdf
This Picture is the Fourteenth of a Series of colored Portraits of Famous Scots published by
JOHN DEWAR &P SONS, L'- D " scotch whisky Distillers, Perth &P London


juiyuo
o
Mirrors
. and
| Glass
|War e
V Always
bright
: and clean'
* after
aon Ami.!
&
Hot) Scratched Xrtl
The operation takes Just one work-
ing minute and leaves the mirror
brilliant.
w
Bon Ami
For
Kitchen
Ware
The
Bon Ami
way if
the
easiest
way.
<5
Brilliantly polish up your pots ket-
tles and pans with Bon Ami—it’s
oerfect.
[2
“.Esculapius”: In ancient Greece they used to
erect temples over natural springs and give to each
a titular diety. We moderns are no less appreciative
of the healthful virtues of a mineral water —only our
methods differ somewhat. For instance, up at the
famous Helidon Spring, the water is secured just as
it bubbles up from the earth, and hermetically sealed
until the process of aeration and bottling is com-
plete. You don’t need a Greek fineness of palate to
appreciate the cool charm of Helidon Spa—it has
the same delicious refreshingness to Billjim as to the
Earl of Hopetoun. As a blender with wines and
spirits, too, it gives just that added snap and
sparkle that counts so much in the sum of pleasant-
ness. You’ll be wise to always make it a practice to
1 igaro . Read a par. here the other week about
Nature planting the giant stinging nettle in N.Q.,
hut close beside it the tree whose leaves serve as an
antidote to its sting. This provision of Nature is
in no way unique, for, just as she curses us with
indigestion so she blesses us with Helidon Spa.
After dining out you’ll have no next morning head-
ache if you take a bottle of ’’Helidon” before turning
in—this delicious mineral water is Nature’s gift to
those who have dined not wisely but too well. A single
glass will dissolve the undigested food and at the
same time ensure a perfect night’s rest. Quite apart
from its health aspect, ’’Helidon” greatly enhances
the flavor of wines and spirits—so truly the way of
wisdom is always to
SPLIT IT WITH
HELIDON.
ABORIGIN-
ALITEIS
“Pick”: “Leo Lear” (B. 19/3/’l4) has
misgivings regarding the wall-of-water yarns that
we read about. Well, I have seen it—not water,
perhaps, but a wall of mud and debris pushed for-
ward by the flooded MacLaughlan River (N.S.W.)
across the Bibbenluke Plains. When the heaving,
rolling mass soughed by my camp at Shanty Hill it
was a quarter of a mile wide, which was all the
width the adjacent hills allowed. I learned later
that a heavy thunderstorm had flooded the country at
the river’s source, early the day before. Likewise
during 18 months of sparring for a crust at Bayliss
Glen, on the Snowy, I have often, after an un-
usually hot day, seen the water wall created by
the melting snows on the peaks beyond. The fos-
sickers of that rugged valley know when to expect
the coming of the wall, and generally heave their
paraphernalia and themselves above high sludge mark
in good time.
John P.”: In the Marlborough (M.L.)
Sounds the universal means of communication is the
motor-boat. In the Pelorus and Queen Charlotte
Sounds alone there are over 300 of these modern
craft. Every farmer has one. Practically every farm
there has water frontage, and the homesteads are all
close to the shore; so, with a telephone and a motor-
boat, the once isolated cocky is in close touch with
civilisation. The motor-launch takes the kids to
school, the milk to the factory, the boys to the
darnce, the family to church and dad to the pub;
and it brings back the mail, the groceries, and some-
times the bailiff and the intoxicated parent. This
means of getting from place to place is always ready,
is quick, and, now that Taranaki benzine is coming
on the market, will be cheap. The very latest devef-
opment is a big, Socialistic sort of launch, to be run
on co-operative lines by the farmers, that will scoot
round to all the farms, morning and evening, to col-
lect the milk and take it to the big dairy factory at
Picton.
' * * *
“Leo Lear”: “Marloo’s” farmers (B.
12/3/’l4) can’t have had much experience with burn-
ing swamps, or they would be able to block the
outbreak at the beginning. In S.W. Victoria peaty
swamps of this kind are common, and if the con-
flagration is not checked when the dry decayed
vegetation gets on fire the whole floor would be
burnt out of the swamp, and the depression left an
ash-hole. The receipt for fire-fighting in this class of
land is draining. Dig a deep ditch round the
smouldering part and isolate it. This can easily be
done, as most soils of this nature are more peaty
on top than anywhere else, and a couple of feet
down run into heavy black ground or sand.
BILLYGOAT FLAT.-THE MAIN
STREET. (As a stranger sees it.)
Billy T.’ : Re the local leaning habit, so
much stressed by George Reid and other strangers
within our gates. I remember, as a youth, an old
pub on the road from Ballarat to Haddon in front
of which stood a well-polished tree-trunk on which
was nailed the notice: “Lean Here!” There is a
somewhat similar notice on a mountain track near
Bright. It is on a post on the edge of the road,
where the push of a foot might hurl it into the tree
tops 100 ft. below. On it is inscribed, “Do not lean
on this Post, it ain’t safe.”
HUMILITY
CUTHBERT: “Madam, ye fes' asked me to split that wood."
SERVANT: “Yes"
CUTHBERT : “Wouldn't y' like me to carry it into Ike house and make a fire fur ye?"
SERVANT : “If you wish to, my good man."
CUTHBERT: "Well, I don 't wish to. I was merely showin' ye how, after having some-
body smile me on one cheek , I could turn the other. Good day!"
“Ginger”: Down in the Lower Murray
district a pair of German girls (sisters) earn the
elusive pin-money and square their dressmakers’
bills by swinging “douglas” for the Mildura firewood
supply. They have put up the respectable tally of
from a cord to a cord and a half (six-foot) a day.
The spectacle of two girleens whirling “Kelly” under
a blinding shower of chips and big father slogging
away placidly a good ton behind is something in-
spiring in these days of tango tarts.
* * * *
From “Bad Australian” (whose engineer-
ing job keeps him wandering over the Andes, S.
America) : I don’t quite know whether
the Salvation Army should be kicked
hard or handed a laurel wreath for
its latest advertising dodge. A few
days ago I was navigating across the
Andes by the Uspallata Pass, and
when I reached the summit, at
13,000 ft., I became aware of a curi-
ous, bony, white-whiskered old frowser
singing, in a shrill “come-all-ye”
kind of voice, “Are you washed in
the blood of the Ker-rucified One?”
as he painted his Army advt. on the
shelter hut which tops the pass. He
was busy oh a statement, in English,
to the effect that “The blood of the
Lamb cleanseth from all sin,” when I
hailed him as we hail men of our
own tongue in a far country. He
took no notice, but got busy on his
statement in German; and as my
mule slid down out of Argentina into
Chili, he had already started to
affirm the same in French. On my
way down the mountains, with my
half-breed arrieros, I found his re-
mark repeated at intervals in Spanish,
Italian and almost every civilised
lingo. This poor old disciple is wan-
dering over South America skirmish-
ing for the Army, which, as usual,
gets a fairly effective advt. for darned
few pesos. The tough old patriarch
hopes to work up the West Coast,
amble through Bolivia, cast his bread
upon the waters of Titicaca (which
by die way, is a much over-rated pond), paste his
little offering on Illamani and the remains of the
Temple of the Sun at Cuzco, and deliver the goods
at Panama about the time the Great White Fleet
gets through. After that, if he has time, he will
blazon it on Popocatepetl, to the astonishment of
General Huerta’s descendant of the 19th generation.
* * * *
An amazing number of relies have been
disinterred in Maoriland at different times. The
latest, dug up at Akaroa, is a helmet, which some
kind of an expert declares to be French and to date
back to the time of Louis X.—Louis the Quarrel-
some. Seeing that that angry crowned cove only
reigned for a pair of years, and those years were
very long ago (1314-1316), the identification niav
be rather a matter of guesswork. A real expert may
tell from a dog’s noise whether the animal comes
from a family which barked in Scotland in the
days of King Kenneth McAlpin, or in Persia under
Darius Tlystaspes, but the public would like some
evidence. Anyhow the thing has been discovered.
It is somewhat in the shape of a low-crowned, mush-
room hat, and is composed of a single piece of raw
hide, evidently moulded on a wooden block while
green. How the hide lasted since the days of Louis
the Cantankerous no one knows. Over the top of
the crown a finely woven canvas is stretched. The
canvas ought to be dead by now. This is covered
by a heavy coat of black lacquer, which probablv
wasn’t known in France at that time. There is very
little decoration, but on the crown an emblem (a
rose and leaves) is worked in gold lacquer. The
brim also shows signs of something or other. The
expert to whom it was submitted found illustrations
in a French history corresponding with the helmet
in every detail, but says he has never seen one in
any museum and does not think another exists.
Consequently he reckons its value should be con-
siderable. The ancient hat was evidently brought to
Akaroa by one of the early French settlers—pro-
bably a man named Smith, from England. Some
people say it is a billy-cock which had dropped into
varnish.
* *
So the poor Papuan is of some use to liis
white planter neighbor after all. Somebody with
patience and consideration has imparted to him the
rotten secret of how to work for his living, and he
is doing it. Consequently, the clamor for Javanese
and other colored labor with rubber-tapping experi-
ence has faded away like a receding dog-fight, and
that involved nightmare, a wholesale importation of
strange, far-travelled niggers, has been averted. It
js remarkable how some people clamor for remote
niggers in any national emergency. Even when there are
herds of raw, docile aborigines at hand, just waiting
to be imposed on, the staunch believer can’t wait to
teach them the job, but bellows to be allowed to
bring a mob of strange savages from somewhere else
and pour them into the plantations, regardless of how
they may complicate the politics and morals of the
rightful naked heathen who. are already there. In
this case thousands of pounds might have been
wasted in a great shuffle of our murky brother, if
some overseers and managers hadn’t been possessed
of the blessed virtue of patience. The Papuan has
apparently given the lie to his numerous traducers
who said he couldn’t work. The madness was just
a bit strange to him, that’s all. And if you dragged
any six company directors out of their Sydney
offices and told them they could boil the billy as
soon as they succeeded in making fire bv rubbing
two sticks together, it would probably be months
before they ground out a spark. The silly secret of
toil is just as hard to acquire as the aboriginal art of
making fire with sticks.
(Continued on page 24.)
THE HYMN OF FUTILITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
• / ' lc s ®Wlement of the Territory is Australia’s own
job, and Australia’s own salvation depends on the
efficiency and expedition with which it is done.
—The Bulletin (12/3/’l4).
Lord, Thou hast given unto us a land.
r In Thy beneficence Thou hast ordained
'lhat we should hold a country great and grand,
Such as no race of old has ever gained.
A favored people, basking in Thy smile:
So dost Thou leave us to work out our fate
But, Lord, be patient yet a little while.
The shade is pleasing and our task is great.
Lo. Thou hast said: “This land I give to you
r lo be the cradle of a mighty race,
A\ ho shall take up the White Man’s task anew,
And all the nations of the world outpace.
No heritage for cowards or for slaves,
Here is a mission for the brave, the strong.
Then see ye to it, lest dishonored graves
Bear witness that ye tarried over long.’’
Lo, Thou hast said: “When ye have toiled and tilled,
t\ hen ye have born the heat, and wisely sown,
And ev’ry corner of the vineyard filled
’ With goodly growth, the land shall be your own.
then shall your sons and your sons’ sons rejoice.
Then shall the race speak with a conqueror’s
mouth ;
And all the world shall hearken to its voice,
And heed the great White Nation of the South.”
And Thou hast said: “This, striving, shall ye do I
Be diligent to tend and guard the soil.
If this great heritage I trust to you
r Be worth the purchase of a meed of toil,
then shall ye not, at call of game or mart,
Forego the labor of a single day.
lliey spurn the gift who treasure but a part.
Guard ye the whole, lest all be cast away I
“Say, is My bounty worth the winning?” (Lord,
(< Thou spoken. Humbly have we heard.)
“No son of man is born who can afford
Lo pay Me tribute with an empty word.
Guard ye the treasure if the gift be meet.
Win ye to strength and wisdom while ye may.
For he who fears the burden and the heat
Shall gain the wages of a squandered day!”
Lord, we have heard.... Loud our Hosannas rang!
Voices of glad thanksgiving did we lift.
I l lom out the fullness of our hearts we sang
Sweet hymns of praise for this Thy gracious gift.
Here, in one corner of the land, we found
A goodly garden, where abundant food
We won, with scanty labor, from the ground.
Heie did we rest. And, Lord, we found it good 1
Great cities have we builded here, O Lord ;
And corn and kine full plenty for our need
We have ; and doth the wondrous land afford
Lieasuie beyond the wildest dreams of greed.
Even this tiny portion of Thy gift,
One corner of our mighty continent,
L’oth please us well. A voice in pray'r we lift: -
"Lord, give its peace! For we are well content .
“Lord, give us peace; for Thou has sent a sign:
Smoke of a raider’s ships athwart the skv !
Nay, suffer us to hold this gift of Thine!
The burden ! Lord ! The burden—-by-and-bve I
The sun is hot, Lord, and the way is long I
’Tis pleasant in this corner Thou hast blest.
Leave us to tarry here with wine and song.
Our little corner, Lord! Guard Thou the "rest!
“Why must we toil ? Here is enough for all!
To-morrow shall our sons take up the task.
But, lest the cities of our people fall,
Guard Thou our continent! ’Tis all we ask.
To-morrow shall our sons go bravely forth,
With banners, and in goodly armor decked.
To-morrow shall they journey to the North,
And do them penance for their sire’s neglect.
“But yesterday our fathers hither came,
ltovers and strangers on a foreign strand.
Must we, for their neglect, bear all the blame?
Nay, Master, we have come to love our land!
But see, the task Thou givest us is great!
The load is heavy and the way is long!
Hold Thou our enemy without the gate!
When we have rested then shall we be strong.
“Lord, Thou hast spoken And, with hands to
ears,
We would shut out the thunder of Thy voice,
That in the night-watch wakes our sudden fears
‘The day is here, and yours must be the choice!
Shall ye be slaves and shun the task of men ?
Shall ye be weak who may be brave and strong?’
We wave our banners boastfully, and then,
Weakly we answer, ‘Lord, the way is long!’
1 ime tarries not, but here ye tarry yet,
Llie futile masters of a continent,
Guard ye the gift I gave? Do ye forget?”
_ And st iH we answer, “Lord, we are content.
Fat have we grown upon this goodly soil.
A little while be patient, Lord, and wait.
To-morrow and to-morrow shall we toil.
The shade is pleasing, Lord! Our task is great!”
But ever through the clamor of the mart,
(< An<l ever 011 the playground through the cheers:
“He spurns the gift who guardeth but a part!”
So doth the warning fall on heedless ears.
“GuarjJ ye the treasure if the gift be meet!”
(Loudly we howl the price, we cheer the play.)
“For he who shirks the burden and the heat
Shall glean the harvest of a squandered day!”
VICTORIA.
C. J. DENNIS.


NINETEEN thousand five hundred previous buyers have been satisfied. We have
made and sold that number of pianos, and more Beale Pianos are used in
Australia than of any other make—British or foreign. 1 hey withstand alike the
desiccation of our torrid summers in Kalgoorhe, Bioken Hill and Cobai, 01 tie me
moisture of sugar lands in North Queensland and F iji. You aie sa e wit i a
Piano in any climate. ___
The most perishable part of all other pianos is admittedly the tuning system or
wrest-plank. The Beale tuning-system being solely of iron and steel is warranted to last
for generations, it cannot fail, and every buyer will confirm this. . wooc en pann wi
gradually crush, as all makers have to admit, undei fiequent tuning anc twistin & o tie
pins. No matter how often tuned and with Beale pianos tuning is se com lequue
the Beale system is not affected.
Beale Pianos contain the choicest Action in the world, by the most expensive makers
of Paris, specially prepared for the Beale Pianos. Similar actions are also used by the
leading piano builders of America, France, England and Germany, ut on y in tie
higher class.
Beale Pianos although made particularly for exacting Australian conditions have a a^i° f E^yti^ e
possess abundant proofs. They have won the Grand Prix and three gold me as a le g ie< nristocratic French sea-
Londou, 1908. Our pianos are solely used in the splendid Strand Palace Hotel, Loudon, and a.an ans s
side resort. They are used by the European manager of the Chinese railways and also in whilst o^‘Yc lTis now
received an unsolicited order for Beale Horizontal Grands to be prepared for the largest hotel m Europe, which
approaching completion. Of this latter, further particulars will be advertised, with illustrations.
Quality for quality you will make a big saving in price.
Buying direct from the makers you save customs duty and middlemen’s profits.
You get a longer-lasting piano and twenty five years’ actual guarantee.
Your Beale Piano will have a better touch consequent upon the high-class Action.
The sound boards are warranted not to crack or lose their camber, hence a violin-like quality results, producing the
tone for which our pianos are everywhere famous.
If vour Beale Piano should at any time meet with an accident or misfortune we have all parts always ready so that
you can rely upon its perfect restoration. Yon can only be sure of this with the actual makers.
Where easy terms are required we issue a FREE LIFE POLICY, so that in case of death the instrument becomes
the property of the customer without any further payment, thus removing anxiety m time of trouble.
The Beale Factories are the largest of their kind in the British Empire and are under the direction of one of the
world’s greatest experts, Major George D. Rose.
FROM FACTORY TO FAMILY.
Please let us send yon a catalogue and circulars. Easiest terms and best conditions in the tiade.
Kalophones, Gramophones, Records, Violins, Musical Instruments of all kinds and sheet music.
CATALOGUES FREE BY POST.
BEALE & COMPANY LIMITED
Head Office and Factories: TRAFALGAR, NELSON and COLLINS STREETS, ANNAN DALE, N.S.W.
City Showrooms: 136a-136b LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY, opposite Mark Foy’s.
George Street, Bathurst
70 Hunter Street, Newcastle
Yass Street, Young
Wagga
Lismore
Orange
131 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.
Argent Street, Broken Hill
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
Townsville
Rockhampton
Maryborough
Cairns
Mackay
839 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
273 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.


“The PAQUIN”
OF SYDNEY.
FOR ORIGINALITY
OF STYLE.
&>•
Ladies' Tailor & Costumier
(Late David Jones),
OCEAN HOUSE,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
CASTOR-OIL, SALTS « DRUGS REPLACED
BY “CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.”
Delicious “fruit laxative” cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels of old
and young folks.
A delicious cure for constipation, bilious-
ness, sick headache, disordered stomach, indi-
gestion, coated tongue, sallowness —take
“California Syrup of Figs.” For the cause
of all this distress lies in a toripd liver and
sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all consti-
pation poison, waste matter, fermenting food
and bile gently moved out of your system by
morning without griping. Please don’t think
of “California Syrup of Figs” as a physic.
Don’t think you are drugging yourself or
your children. This delicious fruit laxative
cannot cause injury. Even a delicate child
can take it as safely as a robust man. It
is the most harmless, effective stomach, liver
and bowel regulator and tonic ever devised.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Cali-
fornia Syrup of Figs,” which has full direc-
tions for babies, children of all ages and for
grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Beware cf counterfeits sold here. Get the
genuine, made by “California Fig Syrup
Company.” Refuse any other kind with
contempt. “California Syrup of Figs” is
sold by all leading chemists, and 1/9.
Edison says on account of the increasing cost of
wood all furniture is destined to be of steel. “Since
the steel for a given piece of furniture costs only
one-fifth as much as the wood. Steel furniture is
light, because only a little steel is required and it can
be polished in perfect imitation of mahogany, walnut,
or oak. Babies in the next generation will sit on
steel high chairs and eat from steel tables.’’
Phillips Ormonde & Co., 17 Queen St., Melbourne.*
BRAND
’UHCIXB
sf
CAVIARE
FILLETED ANCHOVIES
(in Brine).
ANCHOVY PASTE.
Sold by all High-Class Provision Dealers.
O. F. BTUHR A CO.. Hamburg.
Indent* through European Exporters only.
"Hamer” : The truth escapes occasionally.
It bursts forth and will prevail. The other morning
the S. M. Herald had occasion to take up some
space concerning an outpouring of spiritual blessings,
under the auspices of the Church Mission Society,
upon Binghi up by the Roper River, and the head-
lines to the article were:—
VANISHING BLACKS.
A MISSION ENTERPRISE.
Thus did a great fact cease to refrain from being
obvious.
* * * *
"Jimmie Pannikin”: In reply to “II.O.”
let me say that in my diverse and devious divaga-
tions I have come across many strangely named pubs;
but the eurious cognomens were not on the sign-
boards, nor over the door; they were in the un-
written language of the saltbush sages and the
western wags and wits. These ingenious and inter-
esting bloques did not speak of pubs; they called
all the Outback inns “rubbies," and christened
them with nicknames that often bore an unholy
approximation to the Terrible Truth, such as “The
Blazing Stump,’’ “The Rag and Louse,” “The Bat-
tered Pelican,” “The Dewdrop Inn,” “The Reckless
Rabbit,’ “The Hooshta Halt,” “The Gates of Para-
dise,” “The Hobs-o’-Hell,” “The Carriers’ Curse,”
“The Drop-o’-Good-Stuff.” Some of the other pic-
turesque designations I’ll send along when The
Bulletin is printed on asbestos.
“Two Seas”; This is a dry fact, showing
how a misguided mare added the last straw to a
load of hard luck. There had been no rain for five
months of heat-waves, varied by dry westerly gales.
There was no grass, and there were no crops; no
water remained for the stock, except in one muddy
hole. One cherished tank of rain water was being
saved for household use. The family had just
debated the subject of having a long-deferred
washing day. One small cloud upon the horizon
had raised a hope. When that vanished it was
decided to postpone washing “until to-morrow.”
The same evening a plough-mare broke into the
house-paddock and nosed around the tap of the
tank containing our last drink. Suddenly she put
her ears back, and, turning around, drove her hoof
through the 24-gauge iron as though it were
paper. She got her drink, but it cost 600 gallons
of carefully saved water to provide it, and washing
day is now postponed indefinitely.
* * * *
“Leo Lear” : Can any Abo-scribe assist me
to track the first, earliest, or original cove who set
out in black and white that Australian birds were a
harsh, mournful, songless lot? Poet Campbell, who
died in 1844, wrote in “Lines on Departure of
Emigrants to New South Wales,” in the ’3o’s, I
think
Oft when the tuneless birds scream round forlorn
Regret the lark that gladdens England’s morn.
But he is not the man I’m after, as in a footnote to
these lines an extract is given from one P. Cunning-
ham, author of “Two Years in New South Wales.”
I can’t find the date of his book, but the extract
referred to reads: “We are not moved here with the
deep, mellow notes of the blackbird.... or thrilled
with the warblings of the thrush. .. .none of our birds
rivalling those divine songsters in realising the
poetical idea of ‘the music of the grove’ ; while
parrots chattering must supply the place of night-
ingales singing,” etc. Campbell also had peculiar
ideas about our animals, as in the same “Lines” he
says:—
What spacious cities with their spires shall gleam,
Where now the panther laps a lonely stream.
That panther must have been the first edition of the
dreaded Socialistic tiger.
TO THOSE WHO
SHADOW-SPAR.
“Imagine yourself up
against your worst enemy.”
‘ Leo Lear”: The small black ant men-
tioned by “Doubter” (B. 5/3/T4), that resides in
dry river beds, is one of the puzzles the court of
Abojudicators might solve. I’ve seen these insects
in thousands along the Burnett (Q.). Their houses,
churches and pubs are thick on the sand bank in
the river bed. Just before a flood the work of pro-
duction, distribution and exchange is going on as it
has apparently done since Noah’s boss overflow. Then
the waters come down and wash, roar and swirl over
the rocks and sand for days and weeks. When the
normal returns, and the sand-banks are approachable
with dry feet, the ants are there holding salvage
sales and collecting insurance policies. They may
be 200 yards from the banks, and couldn’t have
trekked and returned before and after the inunda-
tion. Maybe they live in water-tight compartments.
AFTER THE RIOT.
INQUISITIVE OLD PARTY: “Were you one of the men who was injured in the milte?"
BATTERED OBJECT: “No. I’m the bloke that was kicked three times in the public-housed"
“Gouger”: It is some years ago since I
first met “Murder.” None of us dared call him that
to his face, though usually in a gang of N.S.W.
railway navvies there are men who will dare Hell’s
own ganger himself. “Murder” stood six-feet-four,
possessed a gorilla’s chest and strength, and was
Irish-Amcrican by accident. It wasn’t his strength
we were frightened of; it was his face, or what
passed for a face. One day the ganger sent “Mur-
der” back along the line nearly a mile for a couple
of mislaid crowbars. “Murder” came back near
knock-off time, and cursed the ganger. He said the
bars were not there. The boss apologised, and that
is the only time I have known a railway ganger to
be polite. When at last they sacked “Murder” the
man who made the necessary remarks was sup-
ported by a dozen navvies weighted with crowbars,
and they passed “Murder’s” time to him on a long-
handled shovel. I heard of “Murder’s” end quite
recently, away out in one of the mountain tinfields
of North Queensland. An old fossicker, no doubt
through fright, took “Murder” as mate into the
claim which had been his living for years. All went well
for a few weeks, until they struck a very rich patch
of tin. Then one day “Murder” turned on the old
man and said “Get!” emphasising his meaning by
seizing his benefactor’s throat and hurling him
stunned into the creek. Now, the entrance into the
tunnel was underneath a huge cairn of rocks, piled
one upon another in hopeless confusion, and so
placed by Nature that each rock remained in its
position supported solely by one little hundred-
weight stone. One night this stone was bored, a
strong gelignite charge with a small fuse put in,
and the hole plugged up again. Next day, about
dinner-time, while “Murder” was working at the far
end of the tunnel, there was an explosion. It must
have been a fortnight before it was noticed that the
big rock-heap before “Murder’s” tunnel had caved
in and completely blocked the entrance. “Murder”
was hardly worth bothering about then; in fact, he
was hardly worth making a fuss about at any time.
* * * *
“Strathloddon”: Re the value of tree plan-
tations, made with either prison or free labor. Back
in the bad days of the ’9o’s in Victoria, a small
forest of pinus insignis was laid out at Creswick,
mostly, perhaps, to give relief work to the electors of
that constituency. When they were 20 years old the
pines were thinned out, the contractors giving £BO
per acre for the right to cut about half the trees.
This pine was grown on poor, hilly land, almost
useless for any other purpose. I have seen Lombard
poplars, 80ft. in height and 4ft. in diameter, grown
on sluiced-out 'diggings in 24 years, and a royalty
of £1 per tree offered and refused. Planted properly,
an acre should grow 400 similar trees. This poplar
cuts up into a beautiful white wood, without taste
or smell, equal if not superior to Maoriland white
pine—for which timber I have known it sold even
to experienced men.
“Albion” : I had been doing a bit of milk-
ing on a cow farm at Piper’s Creek, and one
morning was rambling over the verdant pastures (as
the poet puts it) with a warrant for the arrest
of a white heifer that invariably dodged us at milk-
ing-time. I came across a swarm of bees in a
swamp-oak, and immediately reported the matter.
My mate was not a bit enthusiastic, but remarked
that Tom Day was sure to know something about
the bagging of bees, as Tom knew a bit about
everything. Tom, by the way, was chief-in-command
of the agricultural part of the entertainment. But
he never did much—it was always either too wet
or too dry to plough. I meekly approached Tom
in regard to the bees. Oh, yes 1 He’d caught
thousands of swarms. He sent me to the hut for a
kerosene box and a cornbag. It was quite simple.
He would knock them off their perch into the box,
and we had to put the bag over them. Thomas,
who was fully 6ft. 6in. in height, wore a paspalum
beard, a slouch hat, a blue singlet and no boots, and
his dungaree pants were tucked up almost to his
knees. He manoeuvred round the oak. In the
meantime, my mate and I were handy—lsoyds.
or so away. Tom eventually gave the swarm a prod
with a bush, and then bolted into the scrub.
While he was scaling logs, jumping fences and
dashing through the scrub, frantic yells of “Put
the bag over them!” “Put the bag over them!”
could be distinctly heard for miles around. Fully
three bees fell into the box. In about an hour
Tom crawled back, looking like a jellyfish after a
mermaid’s dance. He reckoned he was stung in
10,000 places, and I believed him. He still main-
tains that it was all our fault for not putting the
bag over them.
♦ * * *
“Main Bearing”: Concerning this diving
argument: About two years ago, while discharging
cargo at Apia, a case of corrugated roofing iron fell
out of a sling into the water between the ship and
a lighter. A big half-caste Samoan, mate on one
of the small coasting steamers down there, dived to
locate it, and found it had taken a long skid away
from where it dropped. He next took down a chain
sling, and owing to the bottom being comparatively
level, he had a hard job to get it slung. Then he
went down with the cargo hook, hooked on, and the
case was hove up. I sounded the depth, person-
ally, and found it to be 37ft. Some time after-
wards, whilst doing some diving down the coast,
something busted internally, and he passed in his
gun. Also, about eight months ago, in letting go
our anchor, the pin came out of the 15-fathom
shackle. A Tongan dived and made a rope fast to
the loose end of the cable. This happened in 48ft.
I have seen a lot of diving done by natives in the
South Seas, but those two instances stand out as
the best.
“Lagani-Namo”: In the Banks group the
natives have it that there was a time when they were
unacquainted with death. As they aged and their
skins wore out all that they had to do was to shed
them, snake fashion, and the proprietors were im-
mediately rejuvenated. But one day, a mother
having made herself young, was unable to
convince her child of her identity, and she
had perforce to resume her former skin.
She subsequently made many attempts to discard her
weather-beaten apparel, but never succeeded in
accomplishing this without estranging the child. She
recognised eventually that it was futile to continue
the attempts, and settled down resigned to the in-
evitable. As time wore on she, of course, wore out
and ultimately died. From that out death came to
be the common lot of mankind.
* * * *
“Celia Lloyd”: I’m giving notice to all
lovers of the good old flag that I’m not
speaking of immigrants in general, but of just one
that I met lately, and he would drive a Chinaman
from his rice. He says he came from England, but
as it is some months since he landed here, and as
I have never known him to remember anything for
three minutes, I reckon he has forgotten where he
did start from. We are on a building job, and as
he couldn’t think hard enough to sink another post-
hole like the last, we sent him to the camp to fry
the fish. “Breadcrumbs,” said his instructor—
“cover them with breadcrumbs, and don’t get
absent-minded and use sawdust or sand.” I reached
camp ten minutes after the others, and found the
oabinetmaker wildly cursing some dog, cat or
other wild beast for spilling his glue. It’s a fact.
He couldn’t get the breadcrumbs to stick, so he
had gone to the cabinetmaker’s pot and fixed them
that way.
Twill’s Visitant.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WILLIAM TWILL was a new chum.
He came to Australia with great
ideas about the wild, free life;
so' he purchased a 6 x 8 calico tent, and set
it up in the backyard of his villa in Ellwood,
Melbourne, and indulged himself in the savage
existence to the extent of sleeping in this rag
dormitory until it deserted him in the follow-
ing peculiar circumstances.
He had retired as usual, and had fallen
asleep with his customary ease, careless of the
dangers to which this primitive living exposed
him.
Sometime in the dark, early hours he was
awakened by the consciousness of a strange
presence* He could see an immense and
hideous head looming vaguely above him, a
darker something in the general darkness. He
could feel the monster’s hot breath stirring
his hair. Then something large and moist,
like two pounds of hot, liquid steak, fell
upon the face of William, and moved softly
and clammily thereupon, like a dove on the
face of the wafers. The unknown horror
was licking Twill preparatory to swallowing
him.
He did not wait for verification of his
conjecture. Rising in a partially slimed
condition he uttered a howl of mortal an-
guish and threw up his arms. He would
have thrown up his legs and his job only he
hadn’t time. The monster was taken by
surprise. Its head went up; its huge
bulk backed precipitately. Then things
began to happen. The tent was in-
continently uprooted, and, torn from
its moorings, Twill’s bed, a collapsible
canvas structure, attached itself to some por-
tion of the prehistoric beast that had invaded
his apartment, and Willie participated in the
subsequent manoeuvres.
A sudden clamor smote sub-section B of
the seaside suburb, and the inhabitants, hur-
riedly ambling to locate it, discovered a
unique line in ghosts charging round Twill’s
back garden. It looked like the spook of an
elephant. It was large and white, it trod
down all obstacles and upended Twill’s hen-
house _in its swoop. It also carried away
one wing of the washery, and buckled a ver-
andah post, and trod a dog shapeless. The
wild ghost was uttering a muffled moaning,
interspersed with frequent shrieks almost
human. When it came near to Swan, who
was perched on a pole, he discovered that it
had horns branching out of its western
gable. Whatever it was it had no conscious-
ness of direction, and in one blind rush pre-
cipitated itself clean through Twill’s fence
into a vacant lot at the back, dropping a
writhing object by the way. On examina-
tion this object proved to be W. Twill in his
collapsible bed. The finding of Cameron’s
cow in the bay next day, drowned and
bundled in a six-by-eight tent, provided the
explanation Willie was incapable of giving.
S.S.


> *
-^y
%V-
- 611
- , '
CD
. : 1
/\
\
wSS?3
For Entertainin
For Sickness
Always have a bottle of Martell’s in the
home, because it is noted for its purity,
delicate aromatic bouquet and delightful
flavor.
Moreover, if you never have need of
it for social purposes it is an essential
in cases of sickness, for its richness in
the higher ethers gives it an immediate
stimulating effect.
Always ask for Martell’s with the
Blue and
Silver Label. ’
„
: ' PI *
fcvfe i i ) f
( ;
>5^
Y/;- '?/*■ <**■■''* ■ >
X
/ \ ■■ f
|>s
& 1
J*S»v
.V
tsSiSI
IX * ■
: u
' f f
|X» * ?, ®g 5 ' c - -c
■
■ •
. f
.
m
is
1 ■
, \
\
m
■
k— rf,
>x
- trr '"^g
H \* c
...
- ', L '
Pfii \
m.
Ihfis
' ■
G.
jijwe
iP.«i '■
■whisky
'•0..
as
m
m
i
m
wm
E
rSbPb
m
@0
m
iti
“Mill’s
Tbori)?’
also.”
—and so the call goes round. Where men
meet to talk over current matters of sport
or old associations Thorne’s is always in
demand, for it engenders a fine spirit of
geniality.
When old friends drop in unexpectedly,
’tis a fine thing to have a bottle of Thorne’s
to hand round, for Thorne’s is essentially
for men who appreciate a whisky that has
been carefully distilled, fully blended and
patiently aged.
Thorne’s has been produced at Glenlivet
—the traditional home of all good Scotch
Whisky—for over 80 years, and its quality
never varies.
Order a supply to-day of
Tboroc’S
Old Higblaod tyalt
Wbisky.
I DC o n)parable.


; srii mm
; vi a f
Q
f 7- \ /'
sr|3
•4 ?
1
I z
h)
50
r
mm.
The Bishop of Bath and Wells writes: “ The
value of Formamint as a preventive is
appreciated in this house.”
The Archdeacon of Bristol writes : ‘‘ I habitually
carry Wulfing’s Formamint with me as a
preventive of Sore Throat.”
The Earl of Kilmorey writes : “I am glad to give
my testimony to the soothing and curative
effects of your potent remedy—Formamint,
with which lam so familiar. As is my
constant practice, I keep one of your brow u
bottles on my dressing table.’ ’
How to Avoid Infectious Diseases.
Do you realise that most of the dangerous infectious
diseases, such as Diphtheria, Consumption, Influenza, Scarht
Fever, Measles and the like, are caused by germs which gain
entrance to the body through the mouth and throat ?
The minute living organisms which produce such diseases
grow and develop like the seeds of plants, and the mouth and
throat form an ideal hot-house for cultivating them.
The scientist, of course, can grow them outside the body,
artificially. For example, a test-tube culture of the germs
which cause Consumption is depicted here ; and also a bottle
of Wulfing’s Formamint—the means which Science has found
to destroy such germs in the mouth and throat, and so protect
us against the diseases which they breed.
WULFJNG *5 • .
ror mam mt
THE GERM-KILLING THROAT TABLET
These harmless and palatable tablets contain the most
powerful destroyer of disease germs known to Science. They
dissolve in the saliva, and the disinfectant is thus carried to
every little crevice, chink, or cranny in the mouth, gums,
tonsils and throat. Thus all germ growths are sought out and
destroyed, their spread is checked, their power to do harm is
entirely broken.
As a preventive of infectious disease, Formamint Tablets
should be used daily by everyone, in health or sickness, and
they are particularly recommended for school children, who
are so exposed to infection, especially at this time of the year.
Beware, however, of harmful imitations ; there is only one
genuine Formamint, viz. Wulfing’s, and all Chemists sell it at
2s. 6d. per bottle. The manufacturers, A. Wulfing & Co.,
17, Bond Street, Sydney, N.S. W., will gladly send you a Free
Sample and an interesting Booklet, if you write to them,
mentioning this paper, and enclose two penny stamps towards
postage.
Another Parade of Underwear.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Wade safd that anything the Opposition could
do to facilitate the passage of the Income Tax Bill
on sound lines would be willingly done. They were
only regretful that it had been necessary, through
the Government’s own fault, gradually to strip this
haughty female from time to time, tiil they had got
her now in her pristine and virgin beauty—dealing
with taxation pure and simple.— Daily paper.
I’ve ’ad jest enough of these tangoey teas !
Here’s my Gheggy Wade, jest as bold as yer
please,
Uudressin’ a female what Holman brought
in,
Which I calls it a scandal, a shame and a
sin!
(I tells you straight out, for I’m never
afraid
That I wouldn’t hare thought it of
Gregory Wade.j
I don’t know jest how the bold hussy was
drest,
Or if ’er blouse showed the best part of ’er
chest;
But I do know my Greggy looked on while
they took
Off the rags she ’ad on, which I s’pose she
. ’ad shook !
(If I’d known what teas on, I’d have gone
up to fetch
My poor Greggy away from that young
Holman wretch!)
She ’ad stolen ’er clothes —that was it, so
they stripped
The bold thing till the very last underthing
slipped
To the floor, and she stood there plain
nakid! Afraid?
Yes, I was, for he’s young, is my Gregory
Wade !
(Not that any girl wears much tcr-day, hut
a maid
’As no right to ivear nothin’ ’fore Gregory
Wade!;
This ’ere takin’ orf clothes is “becomin! too
strong, ,
And I say it again, as I ’ave all along.
That a decent young man doesij’t got a fair
show !
Look at Greg ! I consider ’is couduek was
low!
(Oh, that Holman! I’ll take down that
scoundril a peg
For jest darin’ to bring cats like that to my
Greg !j
Ah-h, I think it’s a shame that a person
should be
Nearly worried to death by such goin’s-on !
He
Wouldn’t ever have brought on ’imself such
dis-grace!
It’s that Holman that’s makin’ my Greg
go tlie pace !)
(Not that any girl wears much tcr-day. But
a maid
Has no RIGHT to ivear nothin’ ’fore
Gregory Wade !)
N.S.W.
MRS. SYDNEY HEL-GRAPH.
Moralisings from Melbourne: —
“Costs” is having, a great time in the matter of
Petek Rodger v. the Vic. Railway Commissioners.
Mcst people have forgotten that Rodger .was the
original contractor for Flinders-street station, and
that his contract was determined in August, 1908
—nearly six years ago-—by the Commissioners, who
finished the job themselves. Rodger thereupon
claimed £29,739 on various items, and the argu-
ment has been proceeding ever since! The Depart-
ment allowed £0463 as justly, due. Then' Justice
Cussen, as a royal commission, inquired into the dis-
pute and awarded Rodger an additional £1546
£BOO9 altogether. Mr. Cussen’s report was made
over two years ago, but either the Department won t
pay. up or Rodger isn’t satisfied, for the-parties are
still arguing. Rodger has been represented all along
by lawyer Cuoker, the well-groomed gentleman with
the subdued hips—and he and learned brother
Macfarlan, representing the Commissioners, are now
worrying out the matter before Railway-engineer
Fraser, as arbitrator. The proceedings are, of
course, in private, but last week the Argus casually
mentioned that lawyer Choker “had just finished an
address which occupied 21 days (!) as a preliminary
to the submission of evidence on behalf of Mr.
Rodger.” So Croicer isn’t rushing the business ;
neither is Rodger showing undue haste ; nor, for that
matter, is the Railway Department breaking its neck
■to get to a conclusion; and there is a fair chance
the dispute will continue till the blessed station is
old and worn out, and suburban railways have been
superseded by aeroplanes and Rodger himself is dead
and forgotten. Even the elegant Croker won’t be on
deck, but some one else will turn up to collect the
costs. “Costs” never dies.
“Solomon Malapkop” writes a letter: —
The N.SAV. Government’s very latest Fair Rent
scheme, which is to lower the cost of living in
Sydney, is to the effect that rents should be fixed
according to the average which the premises fetched
during the seven years before the passing of the Act,
or, if the place isn’t seven years old when the Act
starts, at 10 per cent, per annum on the cost. On
the seven years’ principle rents, of course, would
never rise—at least not openly, though there might
be surreptitious dealing and jobbing in the way of
bonuses —but they would presumably be always
liable to fail. That is to say, the house that started
under the new Act at £1 per week might later, in
some time of general impecuniosity, be let for a
while at 16s. and that interlude might, when better
days arrive, reduce tlie maximum rent to 19s. At
any rate, the bard-hearted man who had charged the
biggest rent during the previous seven years would
come oil best, while the casual philanthropist—if
there are such folk —who had allowed some aged or
battered relative houseroom at a nominal figure
would come off worst. As for the person who had
lived in his own house for (say) ten years and then
wanted to let it, some special arrangement would lie
necessary, for he would neither come under the
seven-year device nor the 10 per cent, dodge. In the
end, of course, Die decline and fall of the house
would end all disputes, and the new premises that
were built on the site would begin life’ on the 10
per cent, basis. Ten per cent, isn’t much of a figure
when allowance is made for insurance, repairs, had
debts, periods of emptiness, rates, taxes (a variable
quality which may increase surprisingly), and for
(tie fact that a house is a perishable property which
in the end ;is v worth nothing, minus the cost of demo-
lition. And 'the •'-administration of the Act will in-
volve a gigantic amount of inspection, else the back-
door fraud of tlie bonus or tlie premium will wipe
out much of the benefit. It might be simpler to try
an experiment at the State ownership of new cities,
for which there is a fair opening at Twofold Bay,
Jervis Bay and Port Stephens. Then tlie State could
hire Christopher Casby, of Bleeding Heart Yard, as
its agent, and collect every copper of rent it could
get, and give back any surplus to the people in the
shane of a diminished public debt and a reduced in-
terest bill.
Tiie Vic. A.N.A. met at Wangaratta this
year and duly passed resolutions anent pre-
ferential voting, wheat in bulk, eradication
of St. John’s wort, extermination of the
house fly, aud a dozen other large subjects
The resolutions will be presented to Premier
Watt —aud that will be the end of the
business. If the Ass. would confine its
attention to one or two proposals on which
it is already decided, such as the need for
Elective Ministries aud the abolition of im-
ported State Governors, and would bog in
until it achieved some result, there would
be a valid excuse for the annual corroborees.
As it is, since the Ass. never by any chance
originates any startling or brilliant idea, it
is, in effect, merely putting a drop of oil on
a machine which someone else has already
built and set going. The oil doesn’t do any
harm, but an awful lot of time is wasted in
putting it on.
The recent regimental insubordination in
Ireland recalls what happened when the
Government of India was transferred from
the East India Company to the Crown in
1859. It was thought fit to transfer the non-
commissioned ranks of the Company’s Euro-
pean regiments, which had been enlisted, and
were bound by their contract of service to
serve the Company, to the service of the
Crown. This change was duly made, and
without the consent of those chiefly affected
by it. The Commander-in-Chief, Sir Hugh
Rose, and the Indian Government took no
notice of the ensuing agitation at first. They
were waiting for orders from Britain —
orders which never came. And then a modi-
fied form of Sheol broke loose. The English
papers of Bengal seethed with infuriated
comment. The publishers were compelled to
give up their soldier contributors. One man
was sentenced to death by court-martial,
and several others to long terms of imprison-
ment ; but at last the justice of the men’s
claim had to be admitted, and they were
discharged wholesale. Contrast the treat-
ment meted out to those soldiers, of half a
century back —men who had done nothing
more than protest against an obvious injus-
tice, who had never refused duty, nor been
guilty of any other overt act of rebellion —
with the treatment accorded to General
Gough and his associates.
“Siniler” Hales wafts a hail from Devon,
where he was at, time of writing, having a
rest after a year’s hard work :
I wrote five big serials last year, besides the life
of May Yolie and the life of Charley Mit-
chell, the latter 100,000 words, and many
short stories and articles. Am hungry to see
old Australia again. There’s no place on Hod’s earth
like Australia after all. It’s a white man’s land.
My dream still is as of old to see Australia an
independent nation, and I’m coming back some day
to fight for it. It is to that end that I have made
war a study in every quarter of the globe. Australia
will never be anything of consequence in the world
until she stands alone. Don’t delude yourself with
the impression that England cares a damn for Aus-
tralia. She would sacrifice Australia to the Japs any
day if it suited her policy.
The Crest.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Aloft, the central summit
Too steep to harbor snow ;
A cone above the mountains
Bare to all winds that blow ;
A crown to all creation —
From his exalted station
lie views the world below.
In summer time or winter,
As each is on the wing,
Their evanescent glories
About his ridges cling;
A starry-pointing linger,
Whereon their pageants linger
From autumn into spring.
For, from his high escarpments,
lie mirrors nights and days—
The sunsets of December,
Or June’s cold, silver haze —
The year in all its phases
About him pales and blazes,
As seasons pale or blaze.
So, hid with distant grandeur,
lie lies beyond the rim
Of changeful things and doubtful
They form no part with him ;
But, drawn in all directions,
They pass as mere reflections —
High glows, or shadows dim.
The cumulus or cirrus,
The rainbow-hue or rain,
About him drift and vanish,
As vapors wax and wane
Like ghosts that scale the ranges ;
For nothing of him changes
In his remote high plane.
For he heeds not of sorrows,
Or any hope or fear;
To one of countless ages
What means another year?
These are not worth the tally;
Heights lie beyond the valley
Not farther off, nor near.
The fevers of progression,
Of birth, and life’s decay,
These are but passing glimmers
A thousand leagues away !
To him the tribulations
Or triumphs of the nations
Are as the moonbeams’ play.
For, wholly of earth’s centre,
The granite child she bore.
He stands immune from changes
Of life, and love, and lore;
Pet high above the surges
Of growths that fret his verges,
Yet scale his sides no more!
So looks lie out and yonder,
Bared of his stony eyes,
To loves of molten ardor
That glimmer through the skies;
Knowing, as one grown older.
That time shall smite them colder,
And stirs not, being wise.
VICTORIA.
C.G.A. COLLES.


THE EXPERIENCED MOTOPIST
THEY JIVE
THE
JPE4TEST
MILE4JE
> ''
Z4
v
.
?
n
x r
c
£&NTINefiT4L
PUDPEP
ALL STATES
riEw XE4u=ir-)p- • •


AUNDERS
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER
Quite New Designs
from our Showrooms, and from our newly-issued Jewellery Supple-
ment containing thousands of exquisite ideas. The production is
free to YOU. Will you write for a Copy?
9ct. Gold Ear-
rings, set Pearls
and Colored Stones,
25/-
9ct. Gold Links,
ltichly Engraved any
Initials, 25/-
15ct. Gold, 40/-
Oct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls and Garnet,
15/-
9ct. Gold Half-
Round Plain Buckle
Bracelet, £3.
15ct. Gold, £5/10/-
15ct. Gold
Wedding Ring,
15/-; 18ct.
Gold, 20/-
18ct. Gold
Wedding Ring,
40/-
18ct. Gold, All
Diamond Cluster,
£7/10/-
18ct. Gold, set
Pure Double-cut
Diamonds,
£l2/10/-
Lady’s Solid Silver Wristlet Watch, the
Newest Shape, Full Jewelled, Lever Movement, Com-
pensation Balance, set in Leather Wristlet, 50/-
15ct. Gold and Plati-
num Brooch, set Dia-
monds and Ruby, £5.
SAUNDERS
32/6
32/6
Gold Necklace, set Pure White Pearls & Amethysts, 32/6
20/-
251-
9ct. Gold
Pendant, set
Pearls and Gar-
nets or Amethysts,
25/-
i 1 /
■s
y
\
Gent.’s Nickel Non-Magnetic
Keyless Lever, Full Jewelled,
With Patent Balance, Non-Magnetic
Time Spring, Dust and Water proof
Oases, 20/-: Extra Quality, 25/-
9ct. Gold Links,
N i c e 1 v Engraved,
20/-;
15ct. Gold, 35/-
9ct. Gold Ear-
rings, set Pearls
and Colored Stones,
20/-
15ct. Gold Two-Bar Brooch, set
Ruby or Sapphire, 25 /-
Oct. Gold
Wedding Ring,
20/-; 15ct.
Gold, 20/-;
18ct. Gold,
30/-
18ct. Gold, set
5 Pure Double-cut
Diamonds, £5.
9ct. Gold
Wedding Ring,
10/-; 15ct.
Gold, 15/-;
18ct. Gold,
20/-
18ct. Gold,
Diamond Clus-
ter Ring, £lO.
9ct. Gold Bracelet,
set Diamonds and Keif
Stones, £4/10/-
15ct. Gold Two-Bar
Buckle Brooch, set Pure
Pearls, 35/-
at
9ct. Gold Pen-
dant, set Pearls and
Amethysts or Garnets,
20/-
Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, Full Jewelled, Lever Movement,
Compensation Balance, Keyless Works, £5/10/-;
15ct. Gold, £lO.
807-817 GEORGE STREET, OPP. RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY.
sdf
New Edison Records
for April.
A fine selection of items is included in the latest list of New
Edison Records now available.
Mr. H. E. Knight (Vaudeville), a new artist, gives a typical
“Rube” record, and among the other artists whose items will
be in great demand are Miss Elsie Baker and Mr. Gus Reed
(first Blue Amberol Selections) ; Harry Lauder (“I Love a
Lassie”) ; Marie Narelle (“Bonnie Doone”) ; Collins and
Harlan (“I want to be down home in Dixie”) ; etc.
Go to an Edison dealer and hear them all.
Blue Amberol Concert Records.
28172 —Good-Bye, Sweet Day—Contralto, orcli.
ace. Christine Miller
28173—Rondo —Cello, piano ace. Gruppe
28174—Prologue from Pagliacei—-
Baritone, orch. ace. Chalmers
28175 —Sing, Smile, Slumber—Soprano, orch.
acc. Marie Rappold
Blue Amherol Regular Records.
1821 —I Love a Lassie —Scotch Comic Song.
Harry Lauder
1849—Holy, Holy! Lord God Almighty-
Sacred, organ acc. Edison Mixed Quartet
1855 —What a Friend We Have in Jesus —
Sacred, orch. acc. Edison Mixed Quartet
1885— Shepherd’s Dance —Violin, orch. acc.
Charles D’Almaine
1886 — Love’s Old, Sweet Song—Violin, Flute
and Harp. Venetian Trio
1892 — Pinafore Airs —No. 3 —Vocal, orch. acc.
Edison Light Opera Co.
1893 Pinafore Airs —No. 4—Vocal, orch. acc.
Edison Light Opera Co.
1894 — Under Southern Skies —Tenor and
chorus, orch. acc. Romain & Chorus
1906 — Rum, Turn, Tiddle—Novelty Song, orch.
acc. Murray & Chorus
1907 An Easy Job on the Farm—Vaudeville
Speciality. Golden & Hughes
1908 — Old Folks at Home —with Variations —
Piano. Benoist
1920 — Call Me Back—Tenor, orch. acc.
Harrison
1921 — -Where the Red, Red Roses Grow—
Tenor, orch acc.
Helen Clark & Brunt
1922 Tango—Trocha—For dancing.
National Promenade Band
1923 Emmet’s Lullaby—Counter tenor, orch.
acc. Oakland
1927—Beautiful Dawn of Love—Tenor, orch.
acc. Clough
1929 —Funny Doings at Sleepy Hollow —Rube
sketch. E. Knight & Co.
1932 — AVhen I Want a Little Loving—Tenor
duet, orch. acc. Campbell & Gillette
1933 Come W'here My Love Lies Dreaming—
Male voices, unaccompanied.
Knickerbocker Quartet
1935 —Sleepy Chile —Lullaby—Contralto, orch.
acc. Elsie Baker
1937—Silv’ry Bells Medley Two-Step (for
dancing). National Promenade Band
1940 — Draw j&le Nearer —Sacred, oreh, acc.
Anthony & Harrison
1941 Somelwdy’s Coming to My House —
Tenor, orch. acc. Van Brunt
1942 Come and Kiss Your Little Baby—
Conversational duet, orch. acc.
Ada Jones & Murray
1956 — AVhen the Bell in the Lighthouse Rings—-
Bass, orch. acc. Gus Reed!
1957 — Sheridan’s Ride —Talking.
L. Davenport
1958 — Killarney, My Home O’er the Sea —
Sentimental song and chorus, orch. acc..
X. Doyle & Chorus:
1965 —Grand Baby, or a Baby Grand ? —Waltz,
song, orch. acc. Ada Jones.
1974 —Bonnie Doone (Ye Banks and Braes) —
Soprano, orch, acc. Marie Narelle
1978 —I Want to be Down Home in Dixie —
Coon duet, orch. acc. Collins & Harlani
22541 —New Zealand March —-
New York Military Bandl
.22542 —Galvini March —
New York Military Band!
.23113 —She Does Like a Little Bit of Scotch —
Comic song, oreh. acc. Williams:
23114 —Little Miss Demure —Baritone, orch acc.
Kirkby
23116 —Overture Oberon—
National Military Bandl
23117—Macushla—Tenor, orch. acc.
Macklini
23118 —Hold Your Hand Out, Naughty Boy—
Comic song, orch. acc. Florrie Forde.
23120 —Shipmates o’ Mine —Baritone, orch. acc.
Kinniburght
23121—1 n Mem’ry Land —Tenor, orch. acc.
Comptoni
23122 —The Dollar Princess Waltz—
Alhambra Orchestra,
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
..
W HA
1 1MDC
LAP! WmB
DRAWN TUNGSTEN WIRE
SAVE IN THE POUND
NO LAMP5 TAKE LESS CURRENT


TERRIBLE HEADACHES.
“I am a bootmaker,” writes Mr. Frederick Miller,
Great King Street, North Dunedin, N.Z., “and for
many years suffered from terrible headaches and
irregularity of the bowels, due to my sedentary life.
After taking one box of Chamberlain’s Tablets I
was greatly benefited, and they soon effected my
cure. Upon the slightest symptoms of constipation
I take two or three tablets, which always set me
right.”*
WIRTH BROTHERS’ CIRCUS, LIMITED,
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
LOCATION: PRINCE ALFRED PARK.
A MAMMOTH PROGRAMME OF FEATURE ACTS.
OUR 1914 ATTRACTIONS THE BEST YET.
BEN ALI WEZZEN’S BEDOUIN ARABS.
MADAME BERZAC’S CIRCUS.
CROTTON AND SKREMKA.
THE ROWLAND FAMILY’S SOCIETY’S CIRCUS.
LES (4) GINNETS. ALBERT TOULOUSE.
DOBLADOS, and his Flock of Trained Sheep and Pigs.
JOEY AND GEORGE.
HERR SCHMIDT AND FRAU DOLINDA.
DAREDEVIL DESPERADO, Aerial Athlete.
ALFREDO, the Flying Man.
PERFORMING POLAR BEARS.
SCORES OF AERIALISTS, EQUESTRIANS, GYM-
NASTS, LEAPERS, TUMBLERS, AND THE
FUNNIEST OF FUNNY CLOWNS.
WIRTHS’ FAMOUS MENAGERIE,
NOW BIGGER AND BETTER THAN EVER.
OPEN EVERY AFTERNOON FROM 4 TILL 5.
ADMISSION: ADULTS, Is. ; CHILDREN, 6d.
Plans at Paling’s, Hotel Australia & Hotel Sydney.
Admission to Combined Shows: ss. (Reserved
Chairs), 45., 35.; Gallery, 2s. One ticket admits to
everything. Matinees Wednesdays and Saturdays.
Children under 10, half-price to all Matinges.
Amusements.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
THE ELLIOTT SAVONA S, Musical Act.
W. C. FIELDS, The Silent Humorist.
SAM STERN, “An Entertainer.” That’s all.
THE FIVE MERRY YOUNGSTERS.
VALECITA’S LEOPARDS. ROSA ROMA.
MDLLE. MARGUERITE and FRANK GILL,
Star Tangoists. MARSHALL CROSBY.
And a Great Company of Established Favorites.
PRICES, 5/-, 4/-, 3/- and 1/-
Tivoli theatre, Melbourne.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
Reappearance, after long absence, of ADA REEVE.
TUCKER, the Singing Violininst.
GILDAY & FOX, Hebrew Delineators.
GOLDEN ATHLONES, in Postures, Plastiques.
RUSSELL CARR, Ventriloquist.
THE CREOS, Continental Acrobats.
Plan at Allan’s. §ff~PRICES—4s., 3s„ 25., Is.
ARTISTS APPEARING AT
Tivoli theatre, Adelaide
THIS WEEK.
WATERBURY BROS. & TENNEY, Novelty Musical
Comedy Act.
DAUNTON SHAW TROUPE, Australia’s World-
famous Cyclists.
“THE TWO BOBS,” A Rag or Two, a Song or Two,
A Laugh or Two, by a Bob or Two.
TOM DAVIS TRIO, Motoring in Mid-air.
Heather Belle, Amy Rochelle, Four Homaz, Ina
Laragy, Austin and Cowan.
Tivoli theatre, perth.
HARRY RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
BARTON & ASIILY, in “Money Talks.”
ROSE k ELLIS.
GRAUS BROTHERS.
LILY EYTON.
JACK SHIELDS.
BELLORA.
PRICES: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. NO EXTRA FEES.
ER MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., have much pleasure in
presenting their STUPENDOUS" PANTOMIME
EXTRAVAGANA, which this year is based upon the
attractive story of
THE FORTY THIEVES.
Written by Frank Dix. Music by Andrew MacCunn.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
The great white city
RUSHCUTTER’S BAY, SYDNEY.
Australia’s Premier Pleasure Resort.
A Fairyland of Palaces of Pleasure.
Made for Merriment. Fashioned for Fun.
The Mecca of the Merrymaker.
FREE ATTRACTIONS.
The Thrilling Trapeze Act of
THE AERIAL BENOS.
TANGO. TANGO.
OPEN-AIR THEATRE.
PROMENADE CONCERTS.
MILITARY BAND.
DAILY THIS WEEK—2 to 11 p.m.
INCLUSIVE ADMISSION, SIXPENCE.
MASQUERADE CARNIVAL—APRIL 22.
General Manager: T. H. ESLICIC, C.E.
r/ELPH 1 THEATRE. BYDNEY.
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY. LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY’S AMERICAN MUSICAL
COMEDY CO. in the greatest musical comedy success
of New York,
THE TENDERFOOT.
P
POPULAR PRICES: 4/-, 3/-. 2/- and 1/-
ALACK TIIEAT It E. SYD N E V
Direction ALLEN DOONE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
ALLEN DOONE,
In the Patriotic Irish Drama,
THE WEARING OF THE GREEN.
Plan at Paling’s.
Day Sales, White Rose.
k] ATIONAL AMPHITHEATRE, SYDNEY.
™ Governing Director: BEN J. FULLER.
fuller-breNnan VAUDEVILLE CIRCUIT.
EVERY NIGHT, AT 8.
New Feature-Act Programme.
SPECIALLY IMPORTED AMERICAN ARTISTS.
FREDERICK C. HAGAN k CO.
CARL BENTZEN k PHYLLIS LAWTON.
HE JAKOWLEAV TRIO. IL TROVATORE TRIO.
GORDON k DAY.
RICES as usual. Plan at Theatre.
H E LITTLE THEATRE
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Direction HUGH BUCKLER LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE, THURSDAY, 2 p.m.
MR. HUGH BUCKLER and MISS VIOLET PAGET
Present Sir Arthur W. Pinero’s Society Comedy,
THE GAY LORD QUEX.
Plan at Paling’s. Day Sale White Rose.
IMPERIAL SALON DE LUXE.
Late Foot of William St. Rink.
Direction BENDRODT k IRVING
J. C. Bendrodt, Man. Director.
G. C. IRVING, Gen. Manager.
OPEN TO THE PUBLIC,
TUESDAY, 21st inst.
FASHIONABLE DANCING.
AFTERNOON TWICE EVENING
3 to 5. DAILY. 8 to 11.
Catering only to First-class Patronage.
SESSIONS AND CHARGES:
MONDAY
WEDNESDAY
and
THURSDAY
Afternoons.
Admission, 2/6.
GENERAL ADMISSION, 3/-.
Telephone 682 William Street.
Amusements.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
The picture block theatres.
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL. EMPRESS.
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
jnTIiACIARIUM AND OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
W EST’S PICT 11 EES, LTD.
"BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICEREGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plans at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee)
O PKNCER’S LYCEUM, SYDN E Y.
THE WORLD’S BEST PICTURES.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE—WEDNESDAY, AT 2.30.
A GREAT PROGRAMME, consisting of TOPICAL,
DRAMATIC, SCENIC and COMEDY SUBJECTS.
Prices: 1/6, II- & 6d. Plan at Paling’s & White Rose,
D \V A R I> B R A NSCOMBE’S
SIX COMPANIES OP
DANDIES
Appear Nightly at
EDEN GARDENS, MANLY.
CREMORNE GARDENS, BRISBANE.
ESPLANADE, ST. KILDA.
EXHIBITION GARDENS, ADELAIDE.
OLYMPIA, PERTH.
CORONATION HALL, BONDI JUNCTION.
HE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
First Appearance of the BERT BAILEY Combination
in the American Comedy-Drama,
WHAT HAPPENED TO MARY.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
KB MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
First Production in Melbourne of the Popular
REVUE,
COME OVER HERE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 65.. 45.. 2s. and Is.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
First Australian Production of the Sensational Drama,
MADAME X.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
elbourne repertory theatre
Direction .. GREGAN McMAHON.
AT ST. PETER’S HALL, EASTERN lIILL,
[naugural Performance of the Australian Series of
Repertory Plavs.
SATURDAY, APRIL 25,
Alfred Buchanan’s
THE IMAGE BREAKER.
Philip Ray’s
LA FEMME RIANTE.,
Box plans at Pianola Co. and Booklovers , 2/6 & 1/-
ATHENASUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Commencing
NEXT THURSDAY, 23rd INST.,
MR. ALEXANDER WATSON
Will give a
SHORT MELBOURNE SERIES
of
SHAKESPEARE PLATFORM PLAYS,
CHARLES DICKENS ENTERTAINMENTS,
RUDYARD KIPLING EVENINGS,
And John Masefield’s Dramatic Poem,
THE EVERLASTING MERCY.
THE EVERLASTING MERCY.
3/_ t 2/-, 1/- Plan at Pianola Rooms, Monday, 20th
instant. „
CARLYLE SMYTHE.
J . & N. TAIT announce the
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND TOUR OF
HARRY LAUDER.
Melbourne, Princess’s Theatre, NOW APPEARING.
Adelaide, commencing MAY 9.
Sydney, commencing MAY 30.
Brisbane, commencing JULY 6.
Auckland, commencing JULY 20.
Wellington, commencing JUIA r 27.
Christchurch, commencing AUGUST 3.
Dunedin, commencing AUGUST 19.
For particulars write to J. & N. TAIT,
The Auditorium, Melbourne,
Sole Directors of Harry Lauder’s Tour.
L Y 31 P I A- OLYMPIA.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
%*/ E a T’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
THE BEST WEST’S PICTURES THE BEST
OF ALL LIMITED. OF ALL
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture AVorthy of Note always to be seen
at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
KKO L L
Bikcii & c a
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
I which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE,
"Rangan”: Among the various reports
afloat re the Australia, one says that Aus-
tralian coal is to be replaced by Maonland
fuel. If our navy is intended some day to
fight for the protection of these shores, then
it would be just as sensible to obtain coal
from Japan as from Maonland. The lie-
fence Department seem to overlook the tact
that different coals demand different con-
stitutional details in furnaces, especially
iu those of a battleship. Therefore, the
peculiarities of the coal Australia intends
to use in the navy should be studied and the
furnaces altered to suit the coal, and not, as
at present, the coal altered to suit the tui-
naces. Even Australian coals show burning
results that vary astonishingly, and a fur-
nace that might give excellent results with
Newcastle coal would give poor results and
deteriorate itself with, say, Dawson coal,
while a different furnace might show the
very opposite results. The coal question is to
be a vital one in the navy, and the sooner
the Department fixes on one. coal the better.
Also, instead of obtaining it in dribs and
drabs, depots should be established at various
strategical points on the coast. If, for in-
stance, Newcastle coal is to be used, how is
the navy to get it if called to northern
waters without such depots? The idea ol
obtaining the navy’s coal from M.D. needs
the heavy foot put on its neck.
— 7
The last local-option poll in N. S. Wales was
a boon to that good old friend, Costs.. Owing
to the alteration of electoral boundaries, pubs
that were ordered to close as a result of the
previous local-option vote, _ were, at the
taking of the last vote, within an electorate
which voted Continuance. Mr. Public-
house made strenuous efforts to retain his
expiring license on the ground that the
position was changed. He failed, however,
and his beer-license was torn brutally
from him. In Mosman, where Reduction
was carried, the agitation was over the way
in which one hotel out of three should be
closed when there were only two hotels, and
it was finally decided that both beer-foundries
should continue. At Granville, after a furi-
ous scrap, followed by a count and a re-
count, Reduction was declared to be carried
by three votes. It was discovered, however,
that the votes of eight absentees 'from other
electorates had been included and as these
might have decided the issue, and they were
indistinguishable from the other votes cast, a
further ballot has to be taken. There have
been other troubles, including a strenuous
but unsuccessful effort by Mr. Public-house
to prove that where Reduction was carried
at the previous poll and Continuance at the
latest, the pubberies ordered to be closed
should get there licenses back. In fact the
whole business has involved a strenuous
item for Costs, and it feels nearly dead.
By “Treponema”
The Royal Commission on Venereal Diseases, now
sitting in England, is collecting some striking evi-
dence concerning the prevalence of these evils in
Great Britain, and their relation to the public health.
Incidentally, too, their relation to the public pocket
through the National Insurance Act and otherwise.
Dr. Love, ear surgeon to the National Bureau for the
Deaf, emphasised the fact that about 25 per cent,
of persons born deaf owe their defect to inherited
syphilis, and this form of deafness is practically in-
curable. It costs at least five times as much to edu-
cate a deaf child as a normal one. Dr. Love also
displayed a series of genealogical trees of syphilitic
families, which showed that two-thirds of the chil-
dren were either born dead, or would have been better
dead, being blind, deaf, or both. Gonorrhoea has for
long been recognised as an important cause of blind-
ness in infancy, but evidence before the Commission
shows that it is responsible for a far greater propor-
tion of all cases of permanent infantile blindness
than any other single cause. Army experience as de-
tailed by Colonel Gibbard, R.A.M.C., and others
points to a very considerable decrease of venereal
disease amongst soldiers, and a much greater de-
crease in the more serious kind of cases. This is
put down to the fact that the men present themselves
for treatment earlier, and are more enlightened with
respect to the methods of avoiding infection. Amongst
62 consecutive cases of soldiers suffering from syphilis
in the primary stage, not one developed the second-
ary stage of the disease. By the use of salvarsan a
syphilitic person can be rendered non-infectious in
from 24 to 48 hours. As syphilis is usually spread
in the earlier stages, prompt and effective treatment
thus has a powerful influence in limiting the infection
of others. Several witnesses emphasised the risk
from treatment by chemists or quacks, whereby the
more severe features of the disease are given time to
develop. The Queensland scheme for dealing with
venereal disease, which has been in operation since
April, 1913, came in for much commendation as the
most practical and effective method yet devised.
Has England really lost its punch? The
air is full of speeches like that of Lord
Charles Beresford, who howled that “if the
army was used against Ulster” (meaning
the foreign element in the eastern half of
Ulster) “it would break the navy as well
as the army”—orations of people who reckon
that the Empire is tottering on the verge of
an abyss or something of the sort because
Belfast threatens to throw 2d. at the eye
of the British Government. All this fuss
about half of nothing looks unmanly. Better
places than Belfast have been wiped off the
earth, and yet the country they belonged to
has gone on and prospered.
A wild wail from Auckland (M.L.) has
been echoing amongst the stars since the
local Famers’ Union received a little bill of
£750, for expenses incurred during the late
industrial scrap along the waterside. The
union is wildly pointing out to all and
sundry that it seized its junk of ironbark
and dashed into the fray at “a time of grave
national peril,” that it did it to “save the
country,” that this action was “in the best
interests of the whole community” ; also, that
it helped to maintain the dividends of the
shipping companies, and preserved lawan-
order. It adds, that “these great services
to the cause of industrial peace” have already
been forgotten, and that all the union ap-
pears to have got are the liabilities totalling
750 quid. The union has called loudly upon
(1) the Government, (2) The Union Co.,
(3) the business community generally, and
so far the only response it has got is (1) the
bill for £750, (2) 13 miles of solid ’silence,
and (3) 321 acres of beautiful, unruffled
calm.
Melbourne’s usual Easter boating disaster
duly arrived last week, five lives being added
to the toll of Port Phillip Bay. They owe
their disappearance to a mania for holding
a piece of string with a bent pin at the
end of it. On Good Friday morning two
enthusiastic fishermen arose at an unholy
hour, caught the first tram from North
Carlton, did the cold ride away down to
St. Kilda beach, and asked a boat-owner to
hire them a vessel in which to “go fishing.”
He considered the atmosphere, viewed the
foam-capped waves and noted the howling
gale, and refused. As he was throwing
away money, that should have been warning
enough to even a fish enthusiast, but just
then a trio of ’couta catchers happened
along, said they were about to go out in
their own private boat, and offered to take
the two. The two accepted, and the five sailed
out, about three-quarters of a mile. Then
an extra violent gust turned the contraption
over. The boat has been recovered, and one
body, and that is all. And at home three
widows and many children wonder at the
inscrutable ways of Providence. Poor
Providence!
The centre of Adelaide is making a fight
for the prominence which its “geographical
position” ought to give it. Commerce and
amusements have hitherto decided to crowd
down on the city’s northern boundary—
carrying on slavishly the tradition of the
beginnings, when all water had to be got
from the river there. The R.C. cathedral, all
the law courts and some Government offices
were placed just beyond Victoria Square, but
a large proportion of the population has
hardly ever gone south of the G.P.O. The
square is waking up now, and its cheap
boarding-houses and fourth-rate offices are
being cleared away. Both of Adelaide’s var-
iety theatres and at least two picture-shows
have to be sought bevond it. The untidy
vacant block onposite the Supreme Court has
developed a palace devoted to chiffons. And
the Glenelg railway, which starts in the
street there, is putting up a stubborn fight
for its existence. S.A. Jockey Club has now
secured a reprieve for it till after Cup Week,
in May, having serious doubts of the tram-
ways’ ability to carry the Morphettville
crowds if the railway terminus is pushed
outside the city boundary. Meantime there
is a disposition to consider electrifying the
whole Glenelg service, instead. It is a hor-
rible thing to be killed by a slow train, but
to be executed by a swift electric car is a
thing which no right-minded person should
worry over.
“G.M.”: Re that par of “Blud’s” (B.
19/3/’l4) about the U.S. notion —-an old,
dead notion revived —of detecting a mur-
derer by photographing the retina of his
victim. The technical difficulties would be
enormous. Consider some of them. The
normal image on the retina is very fleeting,
though somewhat lengthened by a powerful
light-stimulus (a powerful emotional stimu-
lus may increase the effect on the brain-cells
which do the real seeing, but that is another
matter). It is conceivable that instantane-
ous death might fix the retinal image for a
time, though in most cases changes go on in
the cells of the body after what we call
death. Granting that the image is fixed, it
will be very small. A man’s face seen at a
distance of three feet will hardly give an
image more than l-250th of an inch long.
That is, the photograph would need enlarg-
ing 100 times to be the size of the King’s
head on a penny stamp. Also it would have
a network of blood vessels running over it.
Nature dodges these; photography couldn’t.
On the whole it looks as if good old Circum-
stantial Evidence will still be in the running.
IN A THICK VOICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Alluding to the trouble with labor, Mr. Mossy Isaacs
congratulated the Board (of a certain shipping co.)
on its achievements during the year. “God knows, ’
he added, “what you will have to face during the
next 12 months from these brutes of men.’’
-—Australian paper report.
Thpeaking ath one who’th made a competently
By thrift an’ thaving up the punterth quidth,
By piling up the cath by penth and penth,
And doing jutht that all hith duty bidtli,
I cannot quite exthpreth by tongue or pen
My hatred for theth brutheth of working men.
By strieteth minding of mine bithineth,
By laying oddth on thtifths at ten to one,
By following the wayth of Ike and Theth
And working cheerfully from thun to thun,
I have amathed of thouth a thcore or ten,
Now theatened by theth bruteth of working men.
They have no thrift —they thave not anything—
But pleatliant toil ith theirth eight hourth a day.
They wathte their thploth on children —quidth they
fling
To wiveth and kidth, an’ trow their gainth away
On furniture an’ food an’ thcoolth. My veary pen
Failth to dethcribe theth bruteth of working men.
Why do they want more wagetli? Thelfithneth
Thutch ath they practith bringth ith punithment
From thith time out they need not wathte their
breath
On me —I’ll lend not under thent per thent.
I will not take their betth nor thee them when
They put a dollar on —thoth bruteth of men.
N.S.W.
MARTIN LUTHER.


THREE CHEERS!!
Haig 8 Haig Scots Whisky
(ESTABLISHED *679.)
Franz Josef Lager Beer
Hackerbrau Dark Lager
TRY
PANIEL CRAWFORD’S
DANIEL CRAWFORD’S
SCOTCH WHISKY.
THE CONNOISSEUR'S FAVORITE.
POLITICAL
POINTS
This Dominions House foolishness, politely
backed by the Premiers’ Conference, happily,
however, without any financial guarantee, is
due to the hopeless insularity of the Briton,
especially when he is a lord. In Grey’s
mind all “colonials” are alike. They are
not bad fellows on the whole, but not quite
Englishmen. And Grey and his fellow
islanders class them in a lump. Hence his
foolish idea of lumping the lot, for official
purposes, into one big tenement house in
London. Why doesn’t Grey provide a United
Kingdom House on his desirable site, in
which the Scot and the Welshman and the
Irishman and the Englishman and the
Ulsterman and the Manxman and the Manx
cat could quietly fraternise?
RESULTS'
Year after year, however, evidence accumulates
that the nation is on the up grade, and that the
Freetrade policy, judged by the only reliable test,
that of results, has been and continues the best one
for the country.— Sydney Telegraph on British
Financial Returns.
THE FINANCIAL ONE: “ What! Who says
sue re down an’ out! Nonsense, man.
Look at me!!”
“Hamer” : Alas for the dearth of patriot-
ism amongst politicians. At the Premiers’
Conference the only man who appeared to
carry any definite Australianism about him
was Scaddan, of Westralia. Holman,
although representative of a party which is
pledged to Australian ideas, made himself
the leader of the State frighters crowd, and
habitually spoke of the Commonwealth as
if it was some foreign force trespassing on
the preserves of Australian self-government.
Cook and co. weren’t wildly representative
of Australian sentiment either, but as Cook’s
billet is Federal he had to be Federal enough
to keep his billet.
“E.D.” writes: —
During his absence in the Eastern States, West-
ralian Premier Scaddan told some extraordinarily
tall stories about the success of his trading concerns.
For instance, at Bendigo, he affirmed that his
steamers and butcher shop had reduced the price of
meat in Perth by 3d. or 4d. or even fid. a pound.
Previously, he said, steak ranged from 7d. to Is. 2d.
a pound, but now nothing is sold above lOd. Now,
fresh meat never brought Is. 2d. a pound in Perth,
not for a generation or so, anyway. The ruling prices
for years have been: Mutton, fid. to Bd. a pound;
beef, 7d. to lOd. ; and those are the ruling prices still.
Certainly, Scaddan’s meat stall distributes at Id.
below private run shops, but there has never been
enough meat in the stall to supply a good-sized
street. The plain fact is, Premier Jack has made a
howling failure of all his State enterprises, excepting
the pubs. And he is a Rechabite.
JOKOOK’S TOPHET.
A recent happening in Sydney was the
withdrawal of the Furniture Trades Union
from the Sydney Labor Council because it —
the Council —“lacked militancy.” It isn’t
disorderly enough. It doesn’t strike often
enough, or break the law often enough, or
dash things around sufficiently. Incidentally,
the speakers at the meeting which decided'
that there should be more breakages and
more dashing of things around included “re-
presentatives of the British Fabian Society
and the American Federation of Labor, and
a member of the German Social Democratic
party.” What all these bulls are doing in
our china shop this paper knowetli not.
“Red Tape, Junior,” writes: —
Seeing that Premier Holman is con-
sidering a Fair Rents Bill for N.S.W.,
according to which the stipend payable
for the hollow but inhabitable shack is to
be fixed at the average of the remunera-
tion paid during the last seven years, I
would like to ask these questions: (1)'
AVill the men who have to be called in
now and then to repair or paint the
place, or to mow the lawn be paid accord-,
ing to the average wages of the past seven
years? (2) Will the local rates and taxes
levied by the Holman Government be no
more than the average of the last
seven years? (3) Will the price of the
landlord’s and tenant’s food, the frequency
and compensation of the tenant’s domestic
Mary Ann, also the tram and railway
fares which the landlord and tenant have
to pay, the state of repair of the road
outside the house, the rate of interest on
the mortgage, and similar considerations
'remain no better or worse than they were
on the average of the last seven years?
(4) Will Holman guarantee never to ask
any more salary than he has received on
the average of the last seven years ? (5)
Does he know hew to prevent me be-
coming any older or balder than I was 3$
years ago, which is the seven years’ aver-
age once more. (N. 8.: This question
about enacting that the domestic Mary
Ann shall be no scarcer or more costly
than she has been on the average of the
last seven years suggests an idea for a
Fair Drudge Bill. I will draft it.]
From a recent N.S.W. Parliamentary
report:—
Mr. Bagnall resented some laughter from his own
side when he mentioned widows who were employed
as gatekeepers on the railways sometimes sup-
porting children, sometimes sick husbands.
It was hardly a subject for laughter. Many
a widow supports a sick husband when his
own wife has given up the job, or eloped, or
S? n e to the picture show. There are no
kinder folk on earth than widows.
It is a curious fact that at every Easter
Show the most distinctive Australian animal
is missing. That is the Dead Horse which
Posterity will find lying on its verandah
when the credit is stopped and the loans are
falling due.
“Ricardo”: The Cook Government, urged
on by its brightest member, Glynn, propounds
a comprehensive scheme for Northern Terri-
tory railroads. They will start on a total to
reach 19S0 miles. These lines are: Oodna-
datta to Pine (1070), Newcastle Waters to
Camooweal (360), Newcastle Waters to
Westralia (320), and Anthony to Pellew
Islands (230). Total expenditure (in course
of time) extending from £12,000,000 to
£14,000,000. Apart from the comparative
beeline to Pine Creek, there will be consid-
erable discussion on variations of route.
A mere humble trifle of £7,522,100 is the
borrowing proposed for N.S.W. during the
next financial year. It doesn’t sound very
much if the remark is made suddenly, but it
is a lot for a Government which attained to
office on the reduced-borrowing ticket, and
which, after promising to establish a greatly
increased sinking fund, suspended the miser-
ably-inadequate sinking fund which the Lib-
erals set up. Even school buildings and
teachers’ residences (£250,000) are to be
charged to loans without any sinking fund
against them. Yet things of that sort don’t
last very long.' And to make Posterity pay
for the ramshackle structure in which its
grandfather was caned, and probably for
the cane which whacked its grandfather,
looks a reckless species of finance.
“Vandemonian” writes: —
They run small Ministries in Tasmania. The
smallest was that of Richard Dry, which lasted
nearly three years, and included only three men
from first to last. The new Labor Ministrj' will con-
sist of five men. Two of them —Premier Earle and
James Ernest Ogden—were in the first Tasmanian
Labor Ministry, the one which lasted from October
20 to October 27, 1909. Apparently the letter J is
unlucky—perhaps on account of Judas in the New
Testament, the man who held the one portfolio—
that of Treasurer—in the Apostles’ moving Parlia-
ment. That first Tasmanian Labor Ministry con-
sisted of .T. Earle, J. Jensen, J. Ogden, J. J. Long
and J. Cheek. This one consists, at time of writing,
of J. Earle, J. Ogden, J. Lyons, and J. Belton, the
Upper House man not having been selected. And it
came into power because J. Whitsitt was weary of
A. E. Solomon and all his works, and refused to have
anything more to do with G. H. Butler or H. J. M.
Payne.
Sydney Telegraph clamored again last
week for a continuance of the one-big-city
policy in these words :
Where can the wool trade be decentralised away
from Sydney? Where are the commercial centre,
the market, the port for the shipping and the other
essentials of the trade?
In_ other words, where is the new city before
it is built? And for that matter, where was
Sydney before it was built? And where was
the Sydney Telegraph before it started?
The old paper’s pose is that God made Syd-
ney naturally, whereas any other big port
which may be founded in N.S.W. must be
made by man artificially. Which is rather
foolish. Convicts made Sydney. And, now
that N.S.W. is far too great to concentrate
its foreign trade at one port, free men think
of starting another Sydney.
BULL-FIGHTING IN AUSTRALIA.
Prime Minister Cook’s friends at the Premiers’
Conference decided that the method of settling the
Trusts was a matter for the States.
One style.
The new Tas. Cabinet (Earle, Ogden,
Lyons and Belton) replaces a lawyer, a
doctor, an investor and a draper (Solomon,
Butler, Payne and Mulcahy) with a black-
smith, a miner, a school teacher and a
farmer.
THE WAY WE TRAVEL NOW.
INDIGNANT SYDNEY EMPLOYER : “ Really, Mr. Smith, you are very late this morning,
and Mr. Jones is almost as bad. He only arrived a minute ago.”
CLERK SMITH : Yes, sir, it was a gambling event. Our trains had a race to see which
could stand still longest, and mine won."
THE FLOWERS OF PATRIOTISM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“We have no desire to hold office,” said Mr.
Flowers, “unless we can at the end of our term be
able to claim that to a large extent our policy has
been carried into law. The Government are deter-
mined that the policy which they placed before the
electors, and upon which they were returned, shall
be, so far as they are concerned, carried into
law.”— Daily paper.
Like a large, blushing rose, he blows,
While leaves of Hansard fall,
And violets wither in the throes
Of Something by the Wall.
They do not care for tended beds
And cool sprays snugly stowed;
They would quite gladly hang their heads
Out in the arid road.
They, grow in beauty side by side;
While Lib’ral weeds are rank,
And thistledown blows far and wide,
They hug their watered bank.
But when no more they scent the air
With Nielsen jobs and such,
From moistened depths their roots they’ll tear
And shun the gardener’s touch.
Meanwhile they do their best to bloom,
Though some harsh critics say
Their scents remind them of the tomb
And those who’ve passed away.
When Labor dies (all things must die)
And Earth of it is rid,
Whatever flowers it grew will lie
Upon its coffin-lid.
Like o large, blushless rose he blo'.cs,
While leaves of Hansard fall,
And violets wither in the throes
Of Something by the Wall.
N.S.W.
THE GARDENER.
THE VIOLET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“If,” said Mr. Langford, “there are billets going,
and a man is a McDougall, an O’Flaherty or an
O’Donnell or a Murphy, he puts down his name and
pushes his nationality for all it is worth and gets
the billet. But if he is a plain Mr. Johnson or a
Mr. Biggs he does not get the billet, because he is
so very humble and so reticent and so reserved. Yet,
gentlemen, it is the plain Englishman who is the
solid backbone of the Empire, and it is the plain
Englishman who, in times of crisis, has saved the
Old Land and cemented the Empire with his blood.”
—Report of St. George Society Lunacy, Melbourne.
There was never a McDougall or a Murphy or a
Flarty,
Did a thing for Empire in the North or South;
And at Waterloo the same was a very absent party
When the English beat Napoleon with their mouth.
The Englisher, so humble and reserved and reticent,
That a brass band blares ere ever he can die,
These qualities have made him loved upon the Con-
tinent.
And in Canada: “No English need apply.”
He’s a shy, retiring blighter is the modest English-
man,
And his mouth is large and splay and full of noise.
And (on the stage) he always bravely leads the battle
van,
And (on the stage) a deadly calm, his poise,
So reticent and humble, and so modest and reserved
That in France his virgin beauty dims the eye.
And in the States that low advertisement is unde-
served :
“Wanted labor; but no English need apply.”
N.S.W.
RANDOLPH.


Concentrated
Power—
Pratts
Motor
Spint
‘RINGER” DOMINION
ACCORDEONS
(ITALIAN
MODELS)
The player who wants the very best must have an Italian Model “Ringer”
Dominion Accordeon. All over the world the Italian Model Accordeon is
now the accepted instrument for the artist, and it is the style that is
used by such famous players as Frosini and Guido Deiro. The arrange-
ment of the keys, with their handsome pearl tips only slightly raised
above the keyboard, makes quick execution easy and the extra basses allow
of a variation in the accompaniment that greatly enriches the music.
No. 131/10 “RINGER” DOMINION, Italian
Model, 10 keys, size 101 inches x inches,
two sets extra broad reeds of special voic-
ing, each pair of reeds on separate plate,
four bass stops with major and minor
chords, twelve-fold best American cloth
bellows, with all corners metal bound,
polished walnut finish tops with Marque-
terie edging, celluloid name plate, screwed
pearl keys, Six Brass Amplifying Trum-
pets, leather straps
IWis
it
tiwi
fjhfi
[Hi
cD,
mo MIN lON
nccoffononj
PRICE
421-
DOMINION
nccanoßON
131/21 “RINGER” DOMINION,
Italian Model, 21 keys, size 11J inches
x inches, two sets of extra broad
reeds of special voicing, each pair of
reeds on separate plate, eight bass
stops with major and minor chords,
fourteen-fold best American cloth bel-
lows, with all corners metal bound,
polished walnut finish tops with Mar-’
queterie edging, celluloid name plate,
screwed pearl keys, Six Large Brass
Amplifying Trumpets,
Leather straps,
PRICE
75 1-
WRITE for our Complete New Catalogue of the
Famous Dominion Accordeons and Concertinas,
Cobber Mouth Organs, Violins, etc.
JACKSON & MACDONALD,
457 Kent Street (corner Druitt Street), Sydney.
ENGINEERS’
Pocket BOOKS
Remarkably Cheap and Very Useful.
KEMP’S ENGINEER’S YEAR BOOK
of Formulae, Rules, Tables and Data for 1914.
A compendium of the modern practice of Civil, Mechanical, Electrical, Marine, Gas and
Mine Engineering. Revised by Eminent Specialists. 1800 pages and 1350 illustrations.
Leather bound.
JUST ARRIVED. PRICE 15/- (Postage 6d.)
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND,
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 George Street
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS),
Sydney.
UO'qdalM “DOLLOND”
Prismatic BiijocGlar
The illustration below is a faithful comparison between the
“Dollond” Prismatic Binocular and that of an ordinary Binocular
of the same power. The outer circle shows the wider field of view
of the “Dollond.” You will at once see, be you Sportsman, Yachts-
man, Military-man or Racing enthusiast, the great advantage this
wider field of vision provides.
m
m
The “Dollond” Prismatic Binoculars are made with separate
focussing eye pieces, which permit of the maximum definition being
obtained with each eye. The focussing wheel is controlled by the
fingers alone —a great convenience when the other hand has to be
used for some other purpose. A lighter, handier, more powerful
Binocular could not be desired. It’s a life-long companion. Prices
range from £7/10/-.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
STEWART DAWSON’S,
Strapd Corocr, 482 (Seorge Street, Sydocy.
AUSTRALIA: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON: 19 to 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.; & 73 to 81 Regent St., W.


CURED COLDS AND BRONCHITIS.
“Some time ago,” writes Mrs. N. J. Johnston, Little
River, N.Z., “my two boys, Leonard and Tom, had
severe colds and bronchitis. Having seen Chamber-
berlain’s Cough Remedy advertised for the cure of
bronchitis, I decided to try what it would do for my
boys. After the first bottle they showed great im-
provement, and were completely cured by the time
they had finished the second bottle.”*
Holidays are the best tonic for business.
And the best tonic for holidays and other
bard work is an occasional refresher from
the right royal brand —King George IV. top-
notch whisky.*
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLiE and COOLCARDiE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
HEIGHT Increased
If you are not over 40 years of age I can
Increase Your Height by from two to three
inches within three months.
No Medicines. Ordinary Habits Retained.
No appliances or drugs of any kind are used,
and it is impossible for my system to cause
overstrain or to iniure the health in any
way. On the contrary, my students are in-
variably astonished at the tremendous improve-
ment in their health which my course pro-
duces.
All the time required to be devoted is 10
minutes morning and evening.
I do not ask you to make any drastic altera-
tion in your diet, your smoking, or your inode
of life.
GROW TALL, MY SYSTEM WILL
SHOW YOU HOW.
Send two penny stamps with your name and
address, for further particulars.
HUGH GIBSON,
Specialist In the
Increase of
Height,
Department 123, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
FOUL BREATH.
MISFORTUNE FOR MAN OR WOMAN.
The old saying that “Distance lends en-
chantment” was never more aptly to the
point than when applied to those people
whose breath is laden with evil-smelling and
offensive odors. Many persons appear most
attractive at a distance; but produce a feel-
ing of pity and disgust when close to, be-
cause of the condition of their breath. For
instance, it makes little difference how beau-
tiful a woman may be or hojv charming her
manner, if her breath is foul; her charm is
gone, and she is at a disadvantage whenever
she comes in contact with other people. Foul
breath in woman arouses in man a feeling
of repugnance and a desire to get out of the
company of such a woman as quickly as
possible; and even women will avoid her.
It is, therefore, important for every woman
who values her personal attraction to take
such care of herself that this unpleasant
and unnecessary complaint is avoided or
corrected. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
will be found a searching and cleansing
remedy, which will overcome this complaint.
They give you clean bowels, a healthy
stomach, a lively liver, and blood that is
rich and red. They are a safe and reliable
remedy, and will prevent many of the com-
plaints so common if taken once or twice a
week to keep the system in a healthy condi-
tion. They are purely vegetable, and their
action is not accompanied by any nauseous
or griping sensation, but is mild and gentle.
For all complaints arising from imperfect
digestion and impure blood Dr. Morse’s Ip*
dian Root Pills are unexcelled,*
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The beauties and advantages of betting
with bookmakers were borne home to a horde of
N.S.W. and Victorian punters last week. Wallalo
was first favorite for the Sydney Cup. Hundreds
had backed him straight out, and scores had him in
doubles of various sorts. He ran fourth in the High-
weight Handicap at the recent Hawkesbury meeting,
and on Tuesday, April 7, the stewards wiped out
horse, owner, trainer and jockey for two years on a
charge of dishonest practices within the meaning of
rule 171. It was said that the punters had got
ahead of the stable, and a bad performance might
help things out. In betting with the bookmaker the
chief thing is to get in early and get the long price.
So the army that regarded AVallalo as the surest
sort of thing the racecourse ever carries got in
early, and, in return for a vast increase of risk, got
a very slight increase in price. The slight increase
in price was out of all proportion to the vast increase
in risk, because, no matter how far off the day of
the race may be, the bookmaker shortens the odds in
proportion to the demand. Now that AVallalo is
disqualified the punters have lost their money with-
out a run for it, and to what extent can be guessed
from the fact that over £7OOO of it has poured into
one Sydney club alone. In betting with the public
at large through the medium of the Tote there is no
advantage in getting in early, as to do so will not
affect the starting price one scrap. Moreover, the
machine does not do business in advance, but only
on the day of the race, when the horse is on the
ground ready to start, and it does business over
starters only. #
The A.J.C. Autumn Meeting opened
badly for punters pn Saturday last, only two favorites
getting home (luring the afternoon. In the Autumn
Stakes the public hurled its swag on board Alured
so enthusiastically that his price fell as fast as
Lucifer did from Heaven, till it bumped six to four
against. Still, a very huge swag went on Cagou at
threes, but that son of Ayr Laddie grievously disap-
pointed his backers by running sixth—a performance
considered quite unworthy of either him or his dis-
tinguished sire. The winner was excellently ridden
by McLachlan, who practised a masterly restraint,
let others make the pace, and at the right moment
worked his mount into the psychological position to
take charge from Aurofodina, Barlow and Bon Ton
on entering the straight. Bon Ton was the danger,
and Killorn brought him with a splendid rush at
the distance. Then there was a tremendous struggle,
but McLachlan had timed his effort exquisitely, and
the threatening Maorilander was worn down nust in
time for the favorite to sail home with half a neck
to spare. The other favorite to win was Radnor, in
the St. Leger. For days he had been the hottest of
pots, and he went out at the impossible price of
seven to two “on.” As there were only three
starters this hideous price was less villainous than it
looked ; but it drove Jots of people to back Beragoon,
who was understood to be at anything but his best, at
threes. AVhat Judas Mcßrian thought of the chances
of the third nag, Simon Frisco, can be gauged by
the fact that the noble steed went out at 33 to one.
This is the biggest risk the Bag-carrier was ever
known to run in Australia —for the otheV two might
have died of rheumatism on the road. The forecast
was realised. Beragoon could not pace it with Rad-
nor. That animal was simply a crack splitting
through the 'atmosphere, and he built a new record
(3min. 44sec., as against the 3min. 4fsec. of Cadonia
in 1911"). Beragoon was beaten by three lengths.
Simon Frisco was left about a week and half a eon-
tinent and a whole paere of history behind. When
last seen he ' was iust getting through the Anglo-
Saxon period of British history.
* * *
As investments at the recent Sydney races
I lie Doncaster, the High-weight, Handicap and the
Sires’ Produce Stakes ranged from threadbare to naked
and impoverished. There may have been some tickets
on Imshi in the Sires’ Produce Stakes, as the un-
suspected brute went out at 10’s ; but the other two
must have been veritable skinners, considering that
First Principle, winner of the Doncaster, started at
any old price between 20’s and 30’s; and Silver Lau,
first home in the High-weight, was begging at 16s.
It is a matter of sober fact that when the bookie
reports his starting price at anything over 10’s, it
means there is practically no demand. The way
the price falls on the slightest demand is one of the
most bewildering things in creation. Compared to
it a working definition of the fourth dimension is
simplicity concentrated. In the Two Year Old race,
Mountain Knight and Eugeny were made favorites,
but the persistency of the demand for the Knight,
assisted possibly by the fact that McLachlan was
in the saddle, brought his price down to twos,
while Eugeny went out at fours. Eugeny led the
way into the straight from Sir with Moun-
tain Knight third. McLachlan lifted his mount to
the front at the distance, and lit out for the
boodle. But Imshi, son of Persian Knight by
Cramari, unnoticed since the start, dropped from
the clouds, came through like a whirlwind, and flew
past the favorite by a length and a quarter, with
Eugeny three or more lengths behind. As for the
Doncaster, First Principle was fifth entering the
straight. At the distance there were about eight horses
in a line. First P. suddenly appeared in front, and
then he and Gigandra hurtled out of the bunehr
locked together, and swept, neck and neck, past
the half distance, where F.P. got his head and half
his neck in front and kept it there, with Tannter a
head behind second. It was great sport for the people
who kept out of it.
* * * *
The curious feature of the Sydney Cup,
run on Easter Monday at Randwick, is that, out-
side the stable, hardlv anyone had a bean on the
chestnut son of Martagon and Chiffon. The im-
ported creature is five years old, and he carried
Bst. Blb. The bookmakers quoted his price as fives,
the same as they offered against the popular favor-
ite, Sinapis, the Maorilander. Belove went out at
sixes, and carried a tremendous swag of public
wealth, as did Multifoil, although the last-named
is said to have started at eights. AVriter knows
ardent punters who wished to back Multifoil, hut
could get no more than sixes, and decided that
Sinapis was a better investment at fives. On form
and weight Multiform, with his 6st. 71b. as against
Belove’s 7st. lllb. and Sinapis’s Bst. 41b., was a
much more promising investment. The more so
considering that Sinapis is practically only a ponv
and the distance was two miles. But, as it turned
out, none of them had a hope with Lilyveil, who,
with the conquering McLachlan up, beat Multifoil
by four lengths and Belove by seven. As for
Sinapis, that noble nag was right out of the hunt,
and finished eighth. Still, Lilyveil last year won
four races out of seven starts, the wins being the
Farewell Welter at Helenavale (W.A.), Hannan’s
Handicap at lialgoorlie, the Hampton Handicap at
the same meeting, and the Boulder Cup—aH West-
ralian races. The Sydney and Melbourne punter does
not seem to seriously consider the chances of any
gee-gees excepting those who race at Sydney and
Melbourne, with, perhaps, a passing glance at Maori-
landers. Even Adelaide horses do not have their
records looked up. It was an angry crowd that lost
its money on Monday, and it said so very dis-
tinctly as the Westralian steed was led in.
Whatever else it might he, the jockey’s job
is a well-paid affair. W. H. McLachlan's success on
Lilyveil, in Sydney Cup, yielded £226 15s. for
3min. 264 sec. labor —something under £7O per
minute! Which suggests the thought that parents
might consider the mannikinship when wondering
what to do with undersized boys.
* * * *
Auckland (M.L.) went fairly to the dogs
at its Easter horse meeting, when £96,882 was
hurled through the totalisator —an increase of
£22,829 on last year. At Randwick (Sydney) there
were probably five times as many horse-followers at
a similar gathering ; but there is no way of fathom-
ing the amount of boodle handled. Neither were
there any profits to anybody but the Bag; and the
foolish public takes whatever odds are graciously
handed out.
* * # *
W. F. Trembath, Maoriland’s champion
pro. ped., has definitely retired from the athletic
arena. After two years retirement he came back
this season in great style and mopped up, amongst
others, the following events: 220, 440 and 880 yards
pro. championships at Auckland Exhibition ; 880yds.
handicap, off scratch, at Dunedin; and an 880yds.
handicap at Auckland, off scratch, in lmin. 65 4-sth
secs.—his best performance over half a mile.
* * * *
Glenn Curtiss, the Yankee airman, seems
to be on the track of London Daily Maii/s £lO,OOO
prize for a flight across the Atlantic within 72 con-
secutive hours. He is building, on the lines of his
famous flying boat, something with which he hopes
to do the trick and collect the cash. The wina-s of
the new craft will have a span of 75ft., it will be
of the biplane type, and the boat (fixed beneath the
lower plane) will be 50ft. long by sft. wide. A 200-
h.p. Curtiss engine will be fitted, and is expected to
give the Dreadnought of the skies a speed of over
65 miles an hour. There will be a wireless installa-
tion capable of shouting for help over a 50-mile
radius, but able to “receive” from a much greater
distance ; electric light to read the instruments (and
a prayer book) by ; two sets of controls for the two
pilots; a wind-screen to protect the airmen (strangely
enough such a device was suggested in The Bulle-
tin a week or two ago!) ; a supply of food, petrol and
oil; two pilots and three passengers. The whole
thing will weigh over a ton, but it is expected that
the 200-h.p. engine will hurl it through the atmo-
sphere at such a rate that it will eat up the 1800
miles between Newfoundland and Old Ireland in one
non-stop flight of under 30 hours! Anyhow Curtiss
seems to ho having success with his flying: boat.
Plentv of them are used in Uncle Samland, France,
Germany and Russia, as adjuncts to the navy and by
private syndicates carrying passengers for cash. One
good point about the aerial boat is that, if anything
goes wrong, it can come down and float about until it
is picked up, of repairs enable it to rise again.
POOR DAVE!
After tolerating
Dcnje Smith for nine.
rounds, Eddie McGoorty
hits him all over at once.
“Hick”: Young Scotland, the Maoriland
aviator, is learning a lot about his countrymen. At
Dunedin he found on his ascent day a very small
“gate” and a trying wind. He refused to go up,
or rather his manager refused to permit him. After
a long wait for the wind to drop, the gatekeepers
grew weary and departed. In swarmed the dead-
heads. They, true to their kind, demanded an
immediate flight, and Scotland decided to give it a
trial. Luckily, all went well. Then he struck
Wellington—windy Wellington—where he was billed
to fly on a recent Saturday. He was unable to
start, and the crowd took to him and his machine as
being fakes. John Hop, who endeavored to protect
the youngster (he is only 22) got his wrist broken.
Eventually the trouble ended by the mob being
handed pass-out checks with “leave to come again.”
On the mid-week half-holiday Scotland adveriised
another attempt. It was blowing a roarer from
the south—one of the capital’s best days—and a
large crowd turned up at the selected patch to see
the flight. Scotland is nothing if not daring; in
fact, he is harebrained. Despite his manager’s ad-
vice, he decided to evade a scene similar to the one
of some days before. He got away all right, but the
wind soon had him (as he knew it would) and he
crashed into some trees, smashed his £7OO machine
to matchwood, and nearly broke his neck. Then
the crowd went home satisfied.
* * # *
The French have a handy law by which
any foreigner resident in France can be* sued for
debts contracted in another country, if any French
citizen buys up the liabilities. Most of Jack John-
son’s big English and American creditors have ob-
tained judgments in their own countries and sold
them to French agents. To keep ahead of these
gentry Johnson has drawn his theatrical payments
in advance. AYhen he arranged to fight Frank
Moran in Paris, in the month of June, he wanted
the 175,000 francs paid beforehand. But the Yankee
syndicate which was putting up the brass remem-
bered what happened to the National Sporting Club
when it paid Johnson in advance, and said it would
see him dead in the middle of Africa first. It offered
to deposit the 175,000 francs in any one of a long
list of reputable hanks. Johnson, who was his own
THE GLADIATORS.
Pat Bradley fails to get there.
black lawyer, saw danger ahead. He demanded that
the cash should be lodged at the Credit Lyonnais
to his own name, with the proviso that it could be
lifted by his wife at 2 p.m. the day of the fight.
In order to safeguard himself another clause was in-
serted so that the money would come to him in the
event of his wife’s death. Then Johnson went
home and smiled softly and shed the light of his
golden teeth over the landscape. All the Americans
were vastly impressed by his cuteness, but there was
a rush of French lawyers to explain that Johnson
had done the trick the wrong way about. He should
have had the money deposited to his wife’s credit with
the proviso that only he could lift it at 2 p.m. the
afternoon of the fight. As it was the, contract was
a direct acknowledgment that he has 175,000 francs
at the Credit Lvonnais, which was the best evidence
on which to base an application for the French
equivalent to a writ of attachment. Johnson is in
the soup—so much soup that it is hardly possible to
see his head above it. #
Owen Moran apparently reached the end
of his long fistic career when he met Young Shugrue
in New York lately. Of Moran’s superior skill and
boxing ability there was no doubt, but his vitality
gave out. For seven rounds he put it all over the
Jersey boxer: but that indomitable youth kept com-
ing again for more, and at last Moran realised he
had no more to give. He was played right out,
and the knock-out through sheer attrition loomed in
front. And, rather than take it, Owen stopped
short and announced his retirement. _ As the last
echo of his voice died down a hog in the gallery
squealed: “Open the door. Moran’s goin’ out!
But Moran had gone.
* * * *
When Dave Smith and Eddie McGoorty
entered the ring at. Sydney Stadium on Saturday night
11,997 people stood up and adjured Smith to Knock
him out.” Weights were announced as list s*lb.
McGoorty, and list. 51b. 2oz. Smith. Harald Baker
refereed. No waiting. Preliminaries were rushed
through. A ton of silence fell on the place with a
crash. It sounded like an elephant picking up a hair-
pin in a dead world. Smith looked anxious. McGoorty
looked just like himself. For a man of Irish descent
McGoorty is strangely calm. He has the placidity the
Anglo-Saxon is said to have but hasn’t. He advanced
to the battle as if it was a sandwich. Smith charged
him with a straight left and forestalled the dreaded
left hook. McGoorty backed away, and Smith advan-
ced in close order. Then he followed up with his
right and seemed to smite McGoorty heavily. As they
fell into a clinch the pent-up feeling broke forth in a
torrent of cheering. Dave Smith had survived half a
round. When the gong went, and Smith was still on
his feet and ahead on points, the audience went quite
mad. It didn’t cheer —it howled. The second round
found Smith still anticipating. McGoorty seemed slow.
Smith continued to hit him, but failed to leave any
mark, and McGoorty would hit back wildly, almost
clumsily. In the third round Smith opened with three
straight lefts to the mouth. Eddie was calm, and
when he went to his chair his second, Mat Wells,
seemed quite dumb and gave him no advice. Was
it possible that McGoorty had deliberately planned
to let Smith win the first few rounds? His curious
inability to hit, his awful timing, seemed to sug-
gest it. In every other fight McGoorty had always
returned blow for blow, but now not only had he
ceased to smite but had failed to land when he pro-
fessed to smite. In the fourth chapter of the dis-
turbance - Smith got all over his man, and increased
the pace. In the fifth McGoorty seemed to be quite
outclassed; and by the seventh, people thought
he had simply come into the ring to float a
bank or take up land, or do some other financial
transaction. But, looking closely, writer observed
that whenever Smith got really troublesome McGoorty
planted a solid body punch at close quarters that
steadied the hostile array a lot. In the eighth,
McGoorty startled Smith and the audience by putting
in left hooks in rapid succession. Smith blocked
them, but McGoorty continued to shoot them in. He
was coming out of his shell, although still in retreat.
Smith’s speed seemed to slacken, and his face began
to wear an expression of anxiety. When the gong
sounded for the ninth, McGoorty stepped out lightly
-—a very different fighter from the one who had done
the last eight rounds. Instead of the sluggish, somewhat
clumsy battler he was a gladiator from head to heels.
He had come to attack, and the way he squared up
showed it. Smith hit the boards with a bang, and the
surprise of tbe boards, which had imagined Smith to
be having everything his own way, was obvious.
Smith scrambled up and charged McGoorty with the
left. McGoorty took no heed of his left or his right,
but just hit. Smith clinched and tried to hug.
McGoorty declined to be hugged. He said he was en-
gaged to another girl. He hit while Smith held, he
hit while Smith tried to dodge, and he hit at other
times. Also he hit when he wasn’t otherwise em-
ployed. He dominated the proceedings. In the 10th
McGoorty threw himself at a ruined Smith. The
latter clung desperately to his conqueror, and then out
of the break he struck wildly and by some good luck
smote McGoorty on the nose. But as he came in to
follow it up McGoorty countered to the body and
drove a whirlwind of blows. There was a sort of
mist, or avalanche, or drizzle of fists. Then Smith
took sitting exercise, and that ended it.
Although the insistent demand of its patrons to
give Dave Smith another chance, which demand in-
duced the management to put on the third meeting
with McGoorty, speaks well for the loyalty of the
Stadium patrons, it is a pity a section of it cannot
remember what is due to a visitor. The crowd was
unfair. It cheered Smith when he landed. It
cheered him when he missed. And when he stopped
blows it stamped its feet and repeated hideously,
“Dave, Dave, Dave, Dave!” until 999 times. All the
which was grossly unfair to a stranger who was appar-
ently fighting a losing battle. There is no dispute
as to Smith’s winning all along the line up to the
eighth, when McGoorty seemed to wake up. McGoorty
took no heed of points, for he had determined to win
by a knock-out, and he did; and the bias of the
crowd affected hii.i not one iota. When he finally
sent Smith to the boards he walked to his corner,
and nodded to his seconds, and stood with his back
turned on his fallen opponent while the count was
being put on him —a marked contrast to some other
fighters who have to be held back by the referee
while the man who is down gets up. Presumably his
next battle will be a return match with Jeff Smith,-
to see which of them will first meet the tremendous
Clabby.
* * * *
The fight between Pat Bradley and elusive
Jeff Smith, on Easter Monday night, did not draw
the house expected. In fact, considering the night
and the prowess of the combatants, the mansion was
downright miserable. It was akin to Lazarus and
Moreover, the dog that licked his sores. The fact
may have been due, of course, to the circumstance
that, during the afternoon, the bookmakers at Rand-
wick had skinned the bulk of the population clean.
There was only four ounces difference in the weights,
Jeff Smith being the heavier at list. 341 b. Harald
Baker handled the contest. Jeff Smith, the Apollo
.Belvedere of the boxing ring, stepped out and flicked
Patrick Bradley on that with which he inhales
the perfume of the rose. It was a light, airy, play-
ful touch, but Bradley seemed peevish, or in-
furiated, or mad, or something, and replied
with a terrific right on the neck and cheekbone,
and Jeff Smith reeled. Pat, over eager, rushed in
and sent along something that should have slain an
elephant, but J. Smith was not there. He ducked
and hit like lightning. In vain. Bradley took no
notice of his hitting. He returned blow for blow,
and from everyone that landed J. Smith heaved like a
shin in a gale. He went to his corner after the first
gong—a badly-rattled man, and apparently one whose
rounds were numbered. In the second, Jeff Smith
changed his style of fighting. He continued to hit
when opportunity offered, but for the most part he
played for safety. He put in the straight left against
Bradley’s swings and hooks, and used it with all the
speed he was capable of. There was a time when
Bradley was as quick as any of them —but that time
has passed away. In his anxiety to send in a killing
blow he hits too slowly. So the second round became
an exhibition of a man armed with a short dagger
punch against an ironclad gladiator armed with a
club, one blow of which was sufficient to kill —could
he but land it—and it was Jeff Smith’s chief object
in life to see he didn’t land it. The narrow escapes
were frequent. When Patrick did get home he rattled
his man very badly indeed. The third saw some
heavy fighting at close quarters, in which Smith
proved altogether too quick for Bradley, and he
evaded a lot of things. In between evading he
plugged Bradley whenever lie could with safety. It
was Smith’s first round. In the fourth Smith com-
menced to attack by hurling in the left, and then
ducking and smothering. The tactics were emin-
ently successful, and Pat’s wild swings began to
go far awry, and often through the anticipatory
wallop on the nose the blows he had started to swing
were never sent along. In the fifth the same tactics
were even more successful, and the way Jeff Smith
came in showed he was recovering confidence. Brad-
ley was no longer returning blow for blow. He was
falling into arrears at a rate that, by the 20th round,
would leave him hopelessly bankrupt. In the sixth
Bradley warmed up a bit and ladled out hostilities
with truly Hibernian hospitality. For 90sec. it
looked as though Jeff Smith might lose his job at
any time. But by smart footwork, head-ducking
and good guarding he managed to weather the blizzard.
In the sixth Bradley again lost his punch, and Jeff
got in with some energy. Out of a wild mix-up
Bradley stepped back to swing, and, before he remem-
bered to step forward again, his opposing colleague
smote him twice and sent him down. Pat took
eight and then scrambled up again, and was once
more levelled, horizontalled or proned. In fact, he
was laid low. Yet P. Bradley rose to see the round
out. I-Ie reeled about and made what defence he
could, and Jeff Smith danced round him and showered
blows like hail. But he could not out the iron man
in front of him, and at last Pat started to fight back
in a feeble wav, till the gong went and saved him.
His recuperative powers are amazing. He came
out in the eighth and sparred for time. And he did
it successfully. But the fight was really over.
Bradley threatened to kill his seconds if they threw
in the towel, and swore to see it out. In the ninth
he began to hit hard once more, but he did not hit
often enough, and always waited for Smith to lead.
In the 10th he once more lost his offensive power
and never properlv regained it. In the 14th the
fickle crowd counted Bradley out, and some of them
hooted him. Whole rounds passed without Bradley
landing one effective blow, and in the 16th he was
again knocked down. He was scrambling up to
resume the discussion when the police interfered and
said the job had better have a permanent rest.


MY HEALTH EXERCISES
PERMAHENTLY CURE INDIGESTION.
Indigestion is NOT caused by the food you
eat. It is purely the result, of a stomach
that has been ill-used —that has been shame-
fully neglected—that has been allowed to
rust, through want of exercise.
Very few people overeat. If the muscles
of the stomach are of normal strength, your
food will give jou every particle of its nour-
ishing qualities.
My Health Exercises, for banishing indi-
gestion, quickly build up and strengthen the
muscles which govern the stomach —make
them easily able to assimilate the food —give
nourishment to every part of the body. Be
guided by the experience of others who’ve
benefited.
Bead these excellent reports:—
“Your exercises have done me a lot of good.
I feel much stronger in every way, and get
better health. I used to suffer from indi-
gestion, but have not been troubled for some
time now.”—J.R.lt., Wallendbeen, N.S.W.
“Those last lot of exercises have banished
all the aches and pains of indigestion, of
which I had a terribly bad attack the week
before I received your last letter.”
—A.J.W., Hobart, Tasmania.
/
If you’re dyspeptic there’s a rapid, permanent and natural cure now waiting
for you to apply it. What my Health Exercises have done for others they will
surely do for you. Write for a copy of my handsomely illustrated booklet, “Health
and Strength from Self Culture,” which gives detailed information, cost of tuition,
etc. Kindly send three penny stamps to cover cost of postage.
REG. E. (“Snowy”) BARER,
294 Belmont Buildings, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
MY
CLUB
ROYAL
CIGARS
are ideal smokes. They
are very mild, yet so full
flavored that they satisfy
the veteran smoker. They
are hand-made from the
finest Havana Leaf. You
will certainly find them
all that I claim in the way
of mildness and full flavor.
In cabinets of 50, 20/-
per box. Postage in
N.S.W., 9d.; Inter-State,
1/2.
My Illustrated Catalog,
entitled “A Discriminat-
ing Smoker’s Guide,” is
of particular interest to
every smoker.
Send for a copy to-day.
Actual Size.
A. M. SOLOMON
“ CIGAR EXPERT,” I
173 Pitt St., Sydney 1
Williams’ Holder Top
Shaving Stick.
For a practical proof of the
excellence of this new idea,
send 3d. in stamps to The J.
B. Williams Co.,
Box 98 G.P.0.,
Sydney, and you
will receive by re-
turn mail a liberal
sample exactly
like illustration.
All Wideawake
Chemists sell it.
ISO
The maddening irrita-
tion produced by Ec-
zema is instantly re-
lieved with “ISO,”
the unfailing, sooth-
ing, healing remedy.
Send 3d. (in stamps)
for Liberal Sample
Tube, to BLACK,
Chemist, Collingwood,
Victoria. [1
Melbourne to Adelaide
riotor Record
Broken
by
Murray Aunger, Esq.,
by 5 hours 11 minutes,
using
“SHELL”
BENZINE
Rigney Shoes Give You Comfort
from the moment you wear them. From
the time you get up till you go to bed
Rigney Shoes comfort your feet. In a
style for every taste, and a size for every
foot.
The illustration shows a Choice Willow
Calf Derbv Shoe, Fine Stitched Welts,
Perforated Vamp, Lace Face and Cap.
22/6, 2 51-
In BiacK or Tan.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a copy of our Catalog.
fsd
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
IMMIUIUU
£■
4
THE
MUISION
(>r* BMOf
•70
mmm
mm
• CM
Thoroughbred Headwear
The Pick of the World’s Best Makes is fully represented
in the Endless Variety of Hat Styles offered you at our
Store —every style a thoroughbred in every sense of the
word. From the standpoint of Sheer, Downright Value
it would be impossible to beat the two Seasonable
Samples of our Moderate Pricing that we are - quoting
below.
THE “L.S,” FELT, 10/6
A Wonderfully Smart Hat, in
Fine-quality, Smooth Fur
Felt. Fashionable, AVide Band.
Bow at back, as shown (or
at side if desired). Stitched
Double Edges. Light, Cool,
Comfortable, Serviceable—all
Shades and Sizes —the Best
Hat vou could possibly buy at
10/6. Also, in Rough Fur,
at the same figure.
THE “SQUATTER,” 9/6
Specially Designed for Austra-
lian “Outback” Wear. Finely
made in High-grade Fur Felt,
with 3-inch Brim—Narrow
Band. Easy Fitting—Light in
Weight. Will stand any
amount of rough use, and looks
•Stylish enough for wear on
almost any occasion. In Drab
and Fawn Shades. Also, in
Wool Felt, for Knockabout
Wear, 2/6, 4/6.
SEND YOUR SIZE
No matter how far you are from us, amd the Hat you want will reach
you by Return — Post Paid. Remember—“We Satisfy or
Refund.”
LINCOLN, STUART 8 CO. Pty. Ltd.
“Mail-Order Tailors and Outfitters,”
244-254 Flinders Street (Opp. RTy St’n). MELBOURNE.


The Women’s Corner
SPECIAL COLLECTION OF SMART
AND EFFECTIVE BEAUTY
RECIPES.
Permanently Removing
Superfluous Hair.
“Toilet Gossip.”
How to permanently, not merely temporarily, re-
move a downy growth of disfiguring, superfluous
hair is what many women wish to know. It is
a pity that it is not more generally known that
pure, powdered pheminol, obtainable from the
chemists, may be used for this purpose. It is
applied directly to the objectionable hair. The
recommended treatment not only instantly removes
the hair, leaving no trace, but is designed also to
kill the roots completely. * * * The natural allacite
of orange blossoms makes a capital greaseless face
cream. It holds the powder perfectly, and the
natural odor of this product is, of course, most
delightful. Many of the smartest women are now
using it exclusively, because it does not encourage
a growth of hair on the face. * * * The annoying
body odor sometimes resulting from perspiration-can
be instantly neutralised by the occasional application
of powdered (white) pergol.
A Strange Shampoo.
“Cosy Corner Chats.”
* * * I was much interested to learn from this
young woman with the beautiful glossy hair that
she never washes it with soap or artificial shampoo
powders. Instead, she makes her own shampoo by
dissolving a teaspoonful of stallax granules in a
cup of hot water. “I make my chemist get the
stallax for me,” said she. “It comes only in sealed
packages, enough to make up 25 or 30 individual
shampoos, and it smells so good I could almost eat
it.” Certainly this little lady’s hair did look wonder-
ful, even if she has strange ideas of a shampoo. I
am temnted to try the plan myself. * * * For an
actual lfair-grower nothing equals pure boranimn.
It is quite harmless, and sets the hair roots tingling
with new life. * * * The use of rouge is almost
always obvious, but powdered colliandum gives a
perfectly natural color and defies detection.
Renewing Complexions
with Oxygen.
“Handy Recipes.”
Everyone knows that oxygen consumes waste
matter" in the body. A poor complexion is merely
the accumulation of half deadened or waste matter
upon the surface of the skin. It sticks on stubbornly,
showing in the form of sallowness, moth patches
and a generally lifeless appearance. Oxygen may
be used with advantage in removing this disfigura-
tion. Any chemist should be able to supply mereol-
ized wax. This contains oxygen in a form that is
released when it comes in contact with the skin.
Naturally the oxygen attacks the deadened matter
but does not affect the healthy skin at all. Thus a
few applications of this perfectly harmless' substance
soon begins to clear the skin and reveal the beautiful
complexion which every woman has just underneath
the ugly one. The process is pleasant and harmless,
and involves no inconvenience whatever. * * * To
bring a natural red color ’to the lips, rub them
with a soft stick of prolactum. * * * For hot, tired
or perspiring feet, use a teaspoonful of powdered
onalite in a foot bath.
What Women Hate.
“Helpful Gossip.”
Every woman hates a shiny nose and a dull or
greasy complexion. Few know that there is an
instantaneous remedy at hand in the home, one
that is absolutely harmless, and that defies detection
even under the closest scrutiny. If you have no
cleminite in the house get about an ounce from your
chemist, and add just sufficient water to -dissolve it.
A little of this lotion anplied to the face will in-
stantly cause the greasiness to disappear, and the
skin will have a i>evfectly natural, velvety, youthful
bloom that any woman might envy. The effect will
last for many hours, and no powder is required, even
under the most trying conditions, indoors or out.
To prepare the and arms for a long even-
ing in a hot ballroom, nothing can compare with
this simple home-made lotion. * * * To make the
eyelashes grow long, dark and curling, apnlv a
little mennaline with the finger-tips occasionally. It
is absolutely harmless, and beautifies the eyebrows
as well. * * * Pilenta soap is the most satisfactory
for all complexions. It even works well in cold or
hard water.
A■ ■ ”
Cazimi
Cream
Will improve your complexion.
Promotes a healthy condition of
the skin by freeing it of all
impurities. Removes freckles,
sunburn, roughness and redness.
4/6 per Jar,
Prepared and Packed
iu Russia.
Cazimi Soap 1/6 Tablet
Cazimi Powder .... 1/6, 3/0 Box
From all Chemists, Stores or Toilet Parlors.
Wholesale Depot:
526 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
"ROSS”
Sporting Rifles
fsd
280 Calibre
High Velocity
The Ross .280 High
Velocity Sporting Rifle
is so much better than ordi-
nary rifles that it is worth
your while to postpone
your purchase until you
have looked into its merits.
Its trajectory is extraor-
dinarily flat owing to great
muzzle velocity and it
anchors game in a most
wonderful way.
For accuracy, power, handiness
and finish you cannot improve on
the "Ross”. The Ross .280 Sporting
Cartridge with copper tube
expanding bullet (patented) is
specially recommended for use in
the High Velocity Ross. If no
dealer in your vicinity can show
it, write direct for catalogue
(post free) to
Ross Rifle Company,
Quebec, Canada.
Contractors to the Canadian
Government.
LANCASTER’S
High=class Guns & Rifles.
On view at Sole Agents—
HERBERT OXLEY & CO.
26 Strand Arcade, Queen Street,
AUCKLAND, N.Z.,
from whom full particulars and catalogues can
be obtained free by post.
CHARLES LANCASTER & CO. Ltd.
Gunmakers to H.M. King George V., 11 Panton
Street, Haymarket, London, Eng. (Est. 1826)
OCEANMORE,
" Bondi,
Sydney.
OPPOSITE SWIMMING BATHS.
A delightful sojourn for the holiday seeker,
’mid sparkling seas, foamy surf and mighty
crags. Twenty minutes from city. Terms,
from 65/- weekly. ’Phone 669, Waverley.
(Mrs.) T. G. PHILLIPS.
For Motoring, Driving
and Travelling. . . .
MOSGIEL
RUGS
The Most Luxurious Rug Made!
Exquisitely Soft and Comfortable.
Obtainable at all
the Best Shops.
[3
w
niumi^n
F.WOIFFASONN
J§tL3]rc_J
Obtainable at all the leading stores.
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
F. Wolff &Sohn
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE
BERLIN * LONDON
f
Adds—Multiplies—Subtracts—Divides
in Pounds, Shillings, Pence and Farthings,
or in Decimal Currency.
This is the only practical combination of
an Adding Machine and a Calculating
Machine made, and is to-day to the
bookkeeper what the typewriter is
to the correspondent.
You know that time costs you
money. Why waste it by allow-
ing two to eight hours to be
spent on work which can be
better done in one hour ?
' m
FELT & TARRANT MFG. GO.,
London, Paris, Berlin, Buenos Aires, etc.
Australian Agents: Peacock Bros., 214-216 Queen St., Melbourne
Write
for our
Free Book,
“Rapid Mechanical
Calculationand
further information.
sdf
ZONOPHONES
The CincH - - £3 lOs.
New Cecil - - £>4 4s.
Compton - - £6
TAKE ONE HOME
WITH YOU.
Sold by accredited Talking Machine Dealers everywhere.
Instrument Catalogue, Record Lists, and name of nearest dealer on request.
Sole Concessionaires, for
THE INTERNATIONAL ZONOPHONE GO. LTD.,
HOFFNUNG’S CHAMBERS, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Inky Way.
James Francis Dwyer, an Australian pressman who is
Said to have “made good” in the United States, and is
now hack in Australia on a holiday, spoke an interest-
ing piece in the Australian Journalist (25/3/ 14).
One extract is as follows: “I was warned by cei-
tain people in Sydney to never trust American edi-
tors ! Well, I have never been done out of three
cents in the States. It was an old joint, especially
of The Bulletin, to say that Yankee editors were
the fleecers. Bah ! Australian editors are the fleecers.
In Sydney I had to wade through 48 pages to And
a ninepenny paragraph in one weekly. And when I
had to pay sixpence for the paper all I really got
out of the deal was threepence. In America I
have got my cheque for 350 dollars, or whatever it
was, the day after my story was accepted.” If Mr.
Dwyer is alluding to the old Sydney Mail as the
paper which charged him 6d., it can only he hoped
that there is some mistake. There are one
or two men on The Bulletin ?tatt who have
written for the Mail, and they say that, however
had its politics may he, its business dealings are
prompt and liberal. At all events it is pleasing to
know that he doesn’t refer to The Bulletin. When
Mr. Dwyer contributed to this paper he was always
on the free list. Mr. Dwyer made his literary
beginnings in this paper, with a series of short
stories which appeared under a pen-name. 1' c-r
reasons that need not be particularised only a tew
people had any idea of the author’s identity, rhe
stories ought certainly to be republished in book
form, and the author should have credit for them.
They might be a trifle crude, but they were virile.
They were all paid for on acceptance, and at a
much higher rate than that paid in those days,
by any other Australian paper. The publica-
tion was necessarily slow, owing to lack of space.
In fact, one or two, though purchased years
ago, have not yet got into print, in which
respect J. F. Dwyer has shared the -ill-luck of
the late Victor Daiev. The Bulletin still trea-
sures some unpublished fragments of that great
artist’s work, though, unfortunately, they are very
few. #
“Billex”: Brisbane Courier imparted the following
mysterious item of news to its readers recently, in
the guise of a telegram from Adelaide reporting a
shooting trial. “Murray threw tumblers in the cap-
tain’s cabin, and threatened McDonald, who fired at
the ground in self-defence, but Murray made a rush,
and the bullet entered his leg.” No details are
vouchsafed as to what the ground was doing to
McDonald, or why it was in the ship’s cabin; but
the fact that McDonald needed to fire at it m his
own defence argues that it was behaving riotously.
It’s a strange yarn altogether, but the strangest part
of it is the fact that when McDonald fired at the
ground he was such a rotten shot that he plugged
Murray. Perhaps there was a very heavy sea running.
“Wang” : Sub-editing cablegrams seems to be a
sort of guessing competition. This from Melb. Age
the other morning: “The quarter of Copenhagen
known as Frederick’s Place, or circus, containing
four symmetrical palaces occupied by the King and
Roval family, has been destroyed by fire. One of
the four palaces is inhabited by the King, the second
and third by other members of the Royal family,
while the fourth comprises the coronation and state
rooms. The extent of the damage is £lOO,OOO. No
lives were lost.” And this from the Argus: An
extensive circus has been destroyed by fire in Copen-
hagen. The damage is estimated at £lOO,OOO. For-
tunately, all the animals were removed from the
building in time to escape destruction.” *
“O’Cork”: The following notice has been issued
from the P.M.C.’s Department:—
“Memorandum.
“Ceneral Post Office,
“Sydney •
“I have to inform you that the period ot six
months for which correspondence addressed to you
may be sent to this office will expire on the •>
lfii , and it will therefore be necessary for you to
make other arrangements for its delivery by having
it sent direct to your address, or elsewhere, or by
renting a private box, when it will be dealt with
in accordance with your instructions, otherwise cor-
respondence addressed to you at the_ General Post
Office, will be returned to the sender after
the date named.”
Which is to say that the period of six months being
about to expire, the addressee should make other
arrang'ements for the delivery of the period of six
months bv having the period of six months sent
direct to his, or her, address, or elsewhere, or by
renting a private box, when the period of six months
will be dealt with in accordance with liis, or her,
instructions; and, if the addressee fails to make
other-arrangements for the delivery of the period of
six months, his or her correspondence will be re-
turned to the sender after the expiration of the
period of six months.
“0.C.C.: If you listen carefully you will hear a
low wail, or soft moan, or mild complaining eman-
ating from the Thief Papers and the Pirate Maga-
zines. The reason is that the big illustrated papers
of the world, led, as far as I can ascertain by that
energetic old stayer, the Illustrated London News,
are taking to printing their masterpieces in colors
which defy the camera of the block-maker and “re-
producer.” Very soon the moan, or wail, will
become a howl. The pirate rags and mags, will
find most of their occupation gone'; not to speak of
their circulation, when they are Tillable to range at
will among the expensive pictures of their present
victims. It is going to be a cold day for the Para-
site and the Weekly Steal and the Refuse Maga-
zine, for they will have to go and get work, and
pay for it.
“Ginger”: Such is fame! I tramped into Carra-
tliool (N.S.W.) and found a cheque signed James
Fairfax and Sons waiting for me at the post office.
In honor thereof I decided to bestow a bottle of
whisky on a deserving bloke —myself. The hotel-
keeper picked up the cheque, and scanned it long
and carefully. Finally he shook his head. “This is
no good to me. I don’t know these people,” he said.
“They may be all right; but I don’t know them from
a bar of soap, and I don’t take risks with strange
cheques.” “Those people,” I said, “can put up a
pound for every copper you’ve got. They own the
Sydney Morning Herald.” Bung laughed the laugh
of the not-to-be-taken-down, and replied. “I thought
a company owned the Herald.” (Then confiden-
tially.) “Say, mister, spring it on somebody else.”
Accordingly I sprang it on the storekeeper, who sold
the Herald. Later in the day I heard the publican
relating to a commercial how a flaming bagman had
tried to ring a crook cheque in on him.
llearst’s Magazine, New York, publishes some
interesting statements about its loathsome and rep-
tile contemporary. A few circulation figures:
American Sunday Magazine, over 2,150,000;
Saturday Evening Post, 2,086,000 ; Woman's
World (monthly), over 2,000,000; Ladies' BoME
Journal (monthly), 1,685,000; Associated Sunday
Magazine, 1,400,000 ; Illustrated Sunday Maga-
zine, 1,300,000. Of the publications better known
to Australia Munsey's Magazine runs out 400.000 a
month; Everybody's, 600,000 ; McClure's,
500,000 ; Pearson's (monthly), 150,000; Century,
85,000; Harper’s (monthly), over 100,000;
Review of Reviews, over 175,000; Smart Set,
60,000 ; World’s Work, 127,000 ; Strand, 100,000 ;
Wide World, 100,000 ; Delineator, 900,000 ;
Collier’s Weekly, 600,000 ; Scientific American,
62,000. Advertising rates are quoted : Saturday
Evening Post, Ladies’ Home Journal and
Woman's World, eight dols. a line, or 4500 dols.,
6000 dols. and 5000 dols. a page respectively;
Delineator, 3500 dols. a page, or five dols. a line;
Cosmopolitan, 1000 dols. (4.50 dols.). Most of
these statements are probably inventions. The
newspaper circulation liar with his circulation lie is
a wonderful person. When U.S. magazines spread
themselves about each other’s greatness the proposi-
tion seems to be: “If you scratch my unparalleled
back I’ll scratch your unprecedented back in re-
turn.”


sd
fsd
THE EFFICIENT
LA
MAZDA Drawn Wire Filament Lamps are
to be used exclusively in the lighting of the
PANAMA-PACIFIC EXPOSITION.
j I ,1- , r , :• . ' .
This is only one proof of the world-wide fame they have
attained owing to their reasonable cost and high efficiency.
Suitable for alternating or direct current. Large
quantities of all voltages and sizes always in stock.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC C&
21? Clarence Street, SYDNEY. Corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, MELBOURNE.
AGENTS
PERTH, W. A.—Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., “Mazda House,” Hay Street.
BRISBANE, Q.—The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia, Ltd. (E.S.C.A.), Edward Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND.—'The National Electrical & Engineering Co., Ltd., Dunedin, Auckland, Wellington.
Valuable alike
for
the
Invalid and Robust
A Complete Milk and Farinaceous Food.
Easy of Digestion, Most Agreeable to take, Simply and Quickly made.
The ‘Allenburys’ Diet is recommended for general use in place of ordinary milk foods, gruel, etc. and is
particularly adapted to the needs of Dyspeptics, Invalids and the Aged. Being largely predigested it is
easy of assimilation. A cup of the ‘AJJenburys’ Diet is useful in the forenoon, between meals.
The ‘Allenburys* Diet may be taken with advantage, on going to bed, in the place of stimulants.
Being easily digested it promotes tranquil and
refreshing sleep, free from the depressing re-
action ir the morning, which often follows
the taking of spirits.
For those who cannot readily digest milk the
‘Allenburys’ Diet is a welcome substitute, as it
does not cause Indigestion and flatulence.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.,
ud MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
fs
df
sdf
Freedom, Ease 8 Comfort
The ...
WELMAR
Shirt
Pat. 1274
24/5 I’ll.
Stocked by
Leading
Mercers and
Outfitters.
<7
//,
Manufactured by
Welch, Margetson & Co.
Pty. Ltd.
“THE LONE HAND” for Good Stories and Bright Articles.
Price 6d.
WOLF
’X
a
r
U. 8
ISt
m
9 *'
gmrnMrnumf
o.
11l
1
*n
•r
%■’ -'W
Hi ll; **“
• | |i , X:-- : - jii H ii.
-J. V y I!
.• *»•. ; 4Nsfj
zras-, ’ w -
/.XXXX
LJ
X—J
■■
PATENT SUPERHEATED
STEAM LOCOMOBILE
is the most
Economical and Reliable
Power Plant in existence. The total
output is over ONE MILLION h.p.,
in use in tl\e following trades:—
WOODWORKING
CERAMIC
IRON AND METAL WORKS
BUILDING
ELECTRIC LIGHTING AND POWER
STATIONS
MILLING
MINING
PAPER AND PRINTING WORKS
QUARRIES
TEXTILE INDUSTRY
In addition to over 30 engines at
present in use or being erected in
Australia, we booKed orders for
seven engines during last month.
LOCOMOBILES EXHIBITED AT BUILDING AND ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION EXHIBITION AT LEIPZIG.
Superheated Compound Locomobile, with R.W.V. patent valve gear, 290-400 h.p.
Superheated High Pressure Locomobile, 45-70h.p. Portable High Pressure Superheated Locomobile, 13-22 h.p.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES t
HAES & EGGERS,
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.


YOUR LAST
CHANCE —!
to buy from Flavelle’s Magnificent
Stock of Jewellery, Electroplate,
Watches, etc., at
Half Marked Prices
Flavelle’s is known throughout Australia for its
wonderful assortment of High-grade Silverware,
Jewellery, etc., and in this great Realisation Sale
we offer everything at Half the Marked Prices.
But you must hurry, for there are
ONLY A FEW
DAYS LONGER
Think of the future—birthdays, weddings, etc. —
buy now at prices that may never occur again.
We describe here only a few articles selected at
random:—
The
Chance
of a
Life-
time.
m
Solid Gold Cigarette Case (as illus-
trated), very handsome plain design, to hold
10 cigarettes. Compact in shape. Ideal
for presentations. NOW OFFERED AT
HALF PRICE. Marked Price, £l2/12/-
Now £6/6/-
A Similar Case in Sterling Silver, made
especially thin for evening-dress wear.
Marked Price, 39/- Now 19/6.
Plain, Solid Silver Case, large size, fitted
with new, patent spring for holding cigar-
ettes. Marked Price, £3/5/- Now
£l/17/6.
HBOftCS
Handsome Gold Matchbox, (as illus-
trated), plain design, strong and serviceable.
Price was £9. Now only £4/10/-
Others of Solid Gold, handsomely engraved.
Marked Price, £6/10/- Now £3/5/-
Sterling Silver Matchbox, large size,
concave shape, and with ring at side. Price
was 26/- Now 13/-
Smaller Size Silver Matchbox, cushion
shape. Price was 24/- Now 12/-
m
m .
■ -
Plain Gold Sovereign Purse (as illus-
trated), very strongly made to hold .3 sover-
eigns. Marked Price, £4/10/- Now
£2/5/-
Handsomely Chased Gold Sovereign
Purse, full size, an exceptionally fine purse.
Marked Price, £5/5/- Now £2/12/6.
Solid Silver Sovereign Purse, to hold
5 sovereigns, strong, thoroughly well finished.
Marked Price, 16/- Now 8/-
Double Sovereign Purse, of sterling sil-
ver, holds sovereigns and half-sovereigns.
Price was £2/6/- Now £l/3/-
Solid Gold Double Sovereign Purse,
holds 5 sovereigns and 5 half-sovereigns,
richly embossed and finished in the best style.
Marked Price, £lO/10/- Now £5/5/-
ORDER BY MAIL. —We maintain a competent
staff to look after Mail Orders. You may rely on
getting as perfect satisfaction as if you bought
in our Store. Everything carefully packed by
experts.
Flavelle, Roberts &
Sankey Ltd.,
150 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
And at ROCKHAMPTON and
LISMORE.
Try Kriischen Salts with early
morning tea.
Many users of Kriischen
Salts are in the habit, of
adding from one quarter to
a half teaspoonful of Kriis-
chen Salts to the cup of tea
they take before rising.
This is an excellent habit
and is strongly endorsed by
doctors —indeed many doc-
tors take Kriischen Salts
that way themselves.
During the summer, es-
pecially, it is a practice
which has many advantages.
Hot tea co-operates with
the action of the salts in a
most satisfactory manner,
and hastens the removal of
uric acid poison from the
system —poison which tends
to accumulate much more
rapidly in summer than in
winter.
Prevention is better than
cure, and by adopting this
method of preventing uric
acid accumulations in the
system it is quite easy to
guard against
Liver and Kidney Disorders, Gout,
Rheumatism and Lumbago.
and other troubles caused
by uric acid. The
result is a sensation of
brightness, vivacity and
vigour: worries disappear,
indifference vanishes, and
depression gives way to a
feeling of confident op-
timism.
Kriischen Salts are non-
efFervescent and can be
taken without causing the
slightest flatulence or dis-
comfort. They are there-
fore most suitable for the
numerous people who can-
not take aerated or “ fizzy”
drinks.
The Ingredients of Kriischen Salts are necessary.
It must be borne,in mind that
the ingredients of Kriischen Salts
are necessary for healthy life. Your
doctor will tell you so if you will
show him the analysis (on every
bottle). Your body must, of
necessity, obtain these ingredients
from somewhere or you could not
live.
Normally your system should
extract those vital salts from your
food—meat, bread, fruit, vege-
tables, milk, eggs, and so on; but,
as a matter of fact, owing to
impaired digestion, errors of diet,
overwork, anxiety, worry, seden-
tary occupation, and many other
causes, your system does not extract
from food the correct proportions
of these essential lifegiving salts.
And what follows ? Depression,
or headaches, or constipation, or
disordered liver, or inactive kid-
neys, or Rheumatism, or Gout, or
Sciatica, or Lumbago, or Eczema
—many of which arise from excess
of Uric Acid, the cause of more
trouble than many people suspect.
Ivriischen Salts should be your
safe-guard. Besides cleansing
the body of impurities gently,
surely, and painlessly, they possess
a wonderful power of giving new
life and vitality to the countless
millions of cells of which every
body is composed.
Flesh, blood, bone, cartilage,
brain and nerve are all made up
of minute cells, and every cell
requires one or more of the nu-
merous constituents of Kriischen
Salts for its healthy life.
iruschen
Salts
Of all good chemists, grocers, and
. stores throughout Australia.
Wholesale Distributing Agents:
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors:
E. GRIFFITH HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England,
LIEBIG’S
ANALYSIS:—
SODASULPH.
SODA CHLORID.
SODA PHOSPH.
MAGNES. SULPH.
MAGNES. CHLOR.
POT AS. SULPH.
POTAS. CHLORID.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
W. B. (“Doc.”) Carr Las been for the
11th time re-elected as Chairman of Adelaide
Stock Exchange. He is president also of
the Adelaide Racing Club, and was for
years—after Moxon Cook, and before
Hadrian Moody—sporting editor of the
Register.
Governor Latrobe’s house (Latrobe got
to Melbourne long before State cocked hats
were cheapened by the Commonwealth) is to
be pulled down. Bedggood, son of the
early pioneer Bedggood, now departed,
owns the ruins of the Latrobe house,
as well as the ground it stands on. The
big, red walls of the Bedggood boot factory
overshadow it, and when the relic is gone it
will tramp on to the site and take posses-
sion. Bedggood is generously giving any
preservable parts of the house to the asso-
ciations that are likely to treasure them.
There is a solid mahogany door that some
modern vandal has painted with white lead,
and there are fireplaces with solid cedar
frames (the cedar hidden under a coating
of preservative tar). Some casement win-
dows with frameworks of wrought iron and
simple bar fastenings also await the right
sort of owner. The old house itself is
weatherboard. Several early pilgrims
arrived and retired disappointed; they had
looked to see an ivy-clad ruin. The
last occupant was a Bedggood carter, who
had it rent free, but he told the boss con-
fidentially that “them [tigers?] drove him
out.” Alas for romance! When fashion-
able loyalists and sentimental old-timers
crowd round the owner and bewail the pro-
posed destruction, lie tells them the story
of the carter. There is a galvanised iron
fence round the house, but it (the fence) is
gone at the knees. An old-fashioned gate
opens into an ivy-covered path. Then you
see a bow window,, green latticed, and, stuck
in the ivy, a pair of boot-trees. Some grape
vines show ancient, gnarled roots; a visit-
ing expert prodded them with his walking-
stick and said they were at least 50 years
old. Some of the old out-liouses are wattle
and daub, with later brick additions. The
main building has walls of solid cedar pan-
nelling, which had been long hidden, but
are now disclosed. Some brilliant house-
holder of the past had covered the rare w T ood
with hessian and cheap wall paper. The
wall paper had been renewed many times
and the panelling was completely buried.
PARTED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
out upon the drink-drowned sand,
Splay-footed Eulalie,
And eat the peanuts from my hand
I purchased, love, for thee.
The little whisky-colored flies
Are humming ragtime tunes,
And in the skies are stars the size
Of private-bar spittoons.
The bug-bear on his native moss,
Bowed down with aching void
(Like Socrates at Charing Cross),
Quaffs liquid celluloid.
While drearily behind a veil
Ten million Cabots flop,
Changing from green to thin vermeil
At ev'ry jump and hop.
Glad-hearted as an Arab dog
The star of dawn springs forth,
Then travels down the East incog.
Like Yeddah in his wrath!
Mary McCommonwealth is here !!!!!!
Iler parasol of glee,
With woodland nettles dipped in beer,
Bestraddles half the sea.
0 shadow-hearted infidel—
O Elephant of Bletch!
Though breakfast food and asphodel
Thy cankered belly stretch,
The frigid fingernail of Doom
Hath sprawled across the sky,
The Nogi of the Afghan Tomb,
“Bel-Allah-no-llal-Gye.”
N.S.W.
ANGELINA BANANA.


MaKe Your Holiday Prints
on “Nepera” Gaslight Paper
m
&
1
k
s
-iXSs
mt
'»« -
v« ,tkv
C*;**’ *U"
%
\\y.
w,
iS
a
»
8s
£
M
;-pi
•V#l
/S*
1
£\!
-
Wi 5 7^^
3
m.
it
<5#/
Any picture worth taking is worth printing on the best paper
procurable’- and there’s no better printing paper for the amateur
than Austral “Nepera Gaslight Paper. ,
In quality it is perfect, and it is the embodiment of simplicity and
certainty in manipulation. It gives beautiful blacks and pure
whites with wonderfully even gradation from all classes of negatives.
Moreover, no dark room is required in using “Nepera” Gaslight
Paper, and it is generally preferred by amateurs.
“Nepera” Gaslight Postcards are now sold in packets
of 18, with masks, at 1/3, instead of in packets of
12, at i|-, as heretofore. You will appreciate the
advantage. Get some —they are obtainable at all
Kodak dealers, or direct from us.
(Australasia)
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “The Block,” 284 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 37 Bundle Street.
BRISBANE: 250-252 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA: Ruthven Street.
.TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON: William Street.
BROKEN HILL: 346 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: 6 Mercer Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: 3 Lome Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: 76 Stuart Street.
(Rega)
The Ideal Fabric
for Day or Night
wear by Man,
Woman or Child
If you experience any difficulty in obtaining a supply
write direct to us, and the name of the retailer
nearest to you who stocks it will be sent you.
I. & R. MORLEY,
56 Market Street, Sydney ; or 250 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.


Shipping;.
P, and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
♦Twin Screw. All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy,
tintending passengers will need to make immediate
application for berths.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents:. Geo. Wills & Co.,
Limited.
orient Tine
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-iuxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Mautin Place, Sydney.
Hanking, Public Companies, &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET. SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
K. A. WARDEN (President). W. H. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
DEPOSIT YOUR SURPLUS MONEY
in this Bank, where it will earn INTEREST
at 35% on the first £2OO, and 3% on' the
excess to £5OO, and be REPAYABLE ON
DEMAND when you require it.
Deposits Received from Is.
MONEY TO LEND ON MORTGAGE
at Low Interest to Farmers and Settlers and
on Approved City and Suburban Freeholds.
This Bank has No Agencies at Post Offices.
Represented in the State by 118 Branches
and over 500 Agencies.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. 11. DAVIES. Seeretarv.
THE
Sank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £382,500.
Directors: I-lon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY-
Hon. ROBERT PHILP, M.L.A.; Hon. A J
TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 242 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4NQueen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout ' QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
a AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act 1
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .£2 000 000
SUBSCRIBED .. . £ 11 qr’gqa
PAID-UP (31st Dec., 1913) . . £1,195 446
RESERVE FUND .. . . £35,000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Svdnev
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C. '
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Mark Sheldon
Esq.; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank N
Yarwood, Esq.; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid-Up 413,418 0 0
Reserve Fund 154,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 6
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors— Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq.; F. Lord, Esq.; Geo. Edw. Bunnine
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. S ’
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East,’
fhe Colonial Mutual tile
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office :
*l9 8t 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3.445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales: ’ *'
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
. Directors:
,The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.-
The Hon, Bruce Smith. K.C.. M.P. ~■*»„ ><■
A. ROSS MTLLER, Resident Secretan
Shipping.-
■\T ORDDEITTSCHER LLOYD, N.D.L.
Jli imperial,.mail steamers,
TO COLOMBO, SUEZ, NAPLES, ALGIERS,
SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, AND BREMEN.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Installation.
All Steamers fitted with Laundry.
FARES TO LONDON: 1., £7l/10/-; 11., £4O;
111., £l5 to £l9. RETURN: 1., £lO7/5/-; 11.,
£6O; 111., £3O/12/- to £37/16/
LOIIMANN and CO., General Agents, 7 Bridge-st.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
Steamers sail as under (circumstances permitting).
And every ’2B days thereafter.
The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
*Cabins de luxe, with private bath, etc.
tOne, two and three-berth rooms.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“ Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
sd
Twin and Triple-screw Steamers.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, about APRIL 27.
SUEVIC, 12,500 tons, about MAY 13.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, about, JUNE 3.
*C£/?>l/W7C,18,500tons, about JULY 4.
vessel in Australian trade.
Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Fares—Capetown or Durban, £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London . . . . 19 .0 oto 30 0 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from .. . . '25 5 0
Melbourne . . . . . . . . 110 0
PAMPHLETS AND ALL INFORMATION ON APPLI-
CATION. Luggage Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting*) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
‘CAIRNS
(•Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).v
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney April 18.
CANBERRA (8000‘Tons).
Leaves Melbourne April 22.
Leaves Sydney April 25.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne April 29.
Leaves Sydney May 2.
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports).
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, April 18.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney April 25.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
ISLAND TOURS
TO PAPUA
(via the Queensland Coast.)
A Charming Combination
Tour.
S.S. “MORINDA,”
APRIL 20.
Brisbane, Cairns. Port
Moresby, Samara), Woodlark
Island and Yule Island.
£2O.
fsd
TO THE NEW HEBRIDES
(via Lord Howe and Norfolk
Islands).
53 DAYS’ TRIP.
New Steamer
“ MARSINA,”
MAY 1.
Calling at about ICO Trading
and Mission Stations
throughout the Group.
£25-
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., Head Office, SYDNEY.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS:
£3,500,000
£2,350.000
£3,500,000
£9.350,000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, ICt., M.L.C.,
President.
Thomas Buekland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq. t
AUDITORS: Alfred George Milson, Esq.;
The Hon. Sir Normand McLaunn, jvl., ±vj..ju.C.
The Hon. James T. Walker
The Hon. Edmund W. Eosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, MJj.C.
William Harrington Paliher, Esq;
Head Office— George St., Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
336 Branches and Agencies in ther Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.' ji? J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
DIRECTORS:
Georot: J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Kater, M.LjC. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibus.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: Georgfe Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 13 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of |)aui Zealand
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEOROE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £1,000,000
Preference Shares . . . . . . 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up 500.000
Uncalled Capital . . . . .. 500,000
Reserve. Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418.117
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts-all other usual Banking business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. ... ..£544,304 10' 0
Redone Liability of Shareholders .. 156,486 10 0
Receive Imi l (Invested in Govt. Stock) 77,506 0 0
£778,291 0 0
HEAD OPHCn: BRISBANE. —" l
Gen. Man,. Edwd. D. Pay. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Sedge Row, Cannon Street, London
' r 26 BIiANCUES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
TIIE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Brice 63.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
Classed 100 Al at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—.
VENTURA
30NOMA ..
| May 2 I July 4 { A up. 20 i Oct;. 24
►. I June 6 I Aup. l Sept. 20 I Nov. 21
The through trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, Sariifiranciscof.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. & 0., ORIENT LINE,
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
"|"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: — _ v. '■
TWEED, „ .RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND' RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d.; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
ARE YOU FAIR TO VQURSELF P
look old, with
those grey and
taded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous, A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyer’s
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
fsd
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED). ,
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORT?
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WANDILLA(77SS
tons), fitted \Vireles9
Telegraphy, Saturday,
May £> and June 6.
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steerage Passengers.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
GRANTATjA, April 18.
WOIjLOWRA, April 25.
WARILDA (7713 tons),
May 2.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. VUILL St CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS;
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
Twin-screw
Steanjera.
MARAMA
MAKURA
•Niagara
MARAMA
M AKURA
•NIAGARA
*New triple-screw steamer, fitted with cabins-de-
luxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
fSails 10 a.m. Monday, April 6.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
ADELAIDE TO LONDON IN 34 04 VS
(VIA SUEZ CANAL.)
T.S.S. WILTSHIRE .
12,500 Tons.
BRISBANE
SYDNEY ..
HOBART . .
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE. .
CAPTAIN PRENTICE.
About 25th APRIL, 1914.
About 28th APRIL, 1914.
About 2nd MAY, 1914.
About sth MAY, 1914.
About 9th MAY, 1914.
Fares to London: Saloon, £4O to £45.
Third-Class, £l6/16/- to £lB/18/-
Saloon fares from Brisbane,’ £2, extra.
Third-Class, from Brisbane, £l/1/- extra.
The Saloon accommodation consists of two-berth
and family cabins on the Upper Deck amidships, in-
cluding Lounge and Smoke Rooms. Well lighted and
ventilated cabins and spacious decks. Third-class
passengers supplied with fresh provisions from cool
chambers throughout tfye voyage.
Electric Light throughout. Return- and Round-
Trip Tickets issued via l Cape and (or) Suez route.
Prepaid passages arranged. Fitted with Wireless
Telegraphy.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & COMPANY, LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER, SMITH & COMPANY LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Hiiddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,”
"Ulimaroa,”
"Riverina,”
‘Westralia,
‘Wimmera,
‘Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH Si ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SIDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... eSOO tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel
bv the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company’s steamers
possess all up-to-date arrangements for con-
venience and comfort, making travel safe, easy
and pleasant. After first port of call First and
Second Saloon Tickets are interchangeable with all
Interstate Companies, also with the Union S.S. Coy. s
steamers in the Fiji Trade; particulars on applica-
tion. For dates of sailing see Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
’ Agents, II BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.


Hotel*, ftc.
Sk»?iw
EORGE HOTEL.
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 13/- per day*
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING lIALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER arid LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
m
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectahle,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/11
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
FOR A FAIR DINKUAI GO)
► ... TRY THE ... #
n*
KE-ZOK
Accordeons
The World’s Best
35/-, 42/- 63/-
Sole Agent:
L VO NS,
Bourkest.,Melb.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
fsd
Bank otßustralia
SYDNEY
This Bank is open for all classes of GENERAL BANKING BUSINESS
STANWAY HOUSE, KING STREET, SYDNEY
Also at Canberra, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville and London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world. Bills negotiated or forwarded for
collection. Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
Advances made against approved securities.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
N.S.W. Branch Office s BERESFORD CHAMBERS, 30 CASTLEREAQH BTREET
(top of Moore Street), SYDNEY.
Branches in the above cities and 2,000 Agencies at Post Offices throughout the Commonwealth
Deposits from 1/- to £3OO. Interest at 3% per annum.
Deposits or Withdrawals may be made at any Branch or Agency within the Commonwealth
JAMES KELL Drputt Governor. February, 1911,. DENISON MILLER, Govaaac-*
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TEOEDSON, Director,
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
DIAMONDS
REDUCED
ENORMOUSLY.
Never before in the experi-
ence of Australia were so
many Diamonds sold as last
year. Our sales were enor-
mously large. WHY ?
f
Fine White
MONDS, set
Platinum,
£7/10/-
DlA-
in
sdf
Fine Blue White
DIAMONDS, set
in Platinum,
choicely cased,
£l2/12/-
sd
Fine Blue White
DIAMONDS, set in
Platinum, choicely
cased, £l7/* O/-
Well, we, some years ago, took on a Sole Agency calling for an enormous output and to live up
to it we decided to offer Diamonds at merely a broker’s commission above cutters’ landed cost.
The first year it did not pan out too well; the second year the very large output told; and so we
are continuing the experiment for another year.
We oilly sell the higher grade of Diamonds, but our Prices are Lower than those of London,
Fairfax <§L Roberts, Ltd.,
Plain Figures Cash Only. | 23-25 Hunter Street.
The Oldest
Jewellery House
in Sydney.
SHAVING SATISFACTION.
X\
-V
Every man who shaves himself knows the value of a good razor.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR
is absolutely the finest razor on the market. Shaving satisfaction is
assured to every man who uses this splendid razor.
The blade is made from the finest silver steel, and being tempered to
perfection, it keeps a keen edge for a long time.
No soreness or irritation of the skin —no tugging and tearing—but a
smooth clean shave that leaves your face as soft as a baby’s.
Send for a “Plum” Razor —right away.
PRICE 10/6 EACH, POST FREE.
We guarantee to keep it in perfect order for two years free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a very handsome
All the Above Post Free.
present.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
'
ABBEY
SHOES
The Recognised Leading Foot-
wear for Good Dressers.
The Boot illustrated is a Patent
Golosh Bal., Dull Calf Leg, Perfor-
ated Golosh, 27/6 and 30/-
Also in Tan Willow Calf, 22/6,
25/- and 27/6.
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
Wx-ite for our Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
%
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
The Big' Chief
represents the very latest in
OIL ENGINES,
and intending Buyers would do well to inspect same before placing their orders elsewhere.
m
Made to our own specification from the very best materials, the “BIG CHIEF”
is without a rival for both
QUALITY and PRICE.
These Engines are hopper cooled and fitted with Wizard Magneto and regular Pulley, Extended Crank Shaft,
attachment for Kerosene as well as Benzine; Tools, and all usual accessories.
POSITIVELY A HANDSOME PAYING PROPOSITION for FARM, STATION or FACTORY
Send for Catalog giving full particulars, including A FIVE YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
EXCEPTIONALLY LIBERAL TERMS, or Discount for Cash.
R. L. SCRUTTON ®. CO. LTD.
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
“WHERE THE BEST ENGINES ARE SOLD. ,f


II—
Cosy WINTER COMFORT
15he “FITU,”
Wool Jersey Coat, Price 10/6
Post Free.
There’s a world of comfort in one of
these Improved, Knitted, Wool Jersey
Coats. Far superior to the ordinary
sweater, more comfortable, less weight,
without the sacrifice of warmth, afford-
ing a thorough protection from chills,
when overheated.
We have them in
Navy, Brown or White
Better Quality,
Price, 10/6
Price 14/6
FIN NEY’S
The Big BlocK, BRISBANE
KIDNEY DISEASE
and all allied complaints have their prompt and
effectual remedy in Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which
act in a wonderfully speedy manner. Give them a
trial. _ Price, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. Obtainable every-
where.*
810-SHOWMEN!
THERE’S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE,” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd. s 393 George Street,
Sydney.
The Aviator Needs a
GOOD WATCH.
Extremes of temperature, shock, vibration o,
magnetic influences never affect
? HF HOWARD WATCH.
Orville Wright relied on a Howard in his
aeroplane tests
Peary carried a Howard on his trip to the Pole.
Illustrated Catalogue sent post free to any
address.
PROUDS LTD., Jewellers,
Sole Representatives, 187 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
IN BANANA LAND
M.L.C. Fowles, just returned from a trip
in Europe, informed the Brisbane Y.M.C.A,
that in his travels he had found “two things
ring true —the English sovereign and Chris-
tianity.*’ This collocation of God and Mam-
mon is in the true spirit of pietism.
Rev. James Williams, secretary of the
Queensland Temperance Alliance, died in
Adelaide, where he was representing his
State at the Australian Convention. The
water he had barracked for so long turned
doe on him at last. A cold bath, acting on a
weak heart, took him off at 68.
Thus Brisbane Daily Mail
At present tlie State Treasurer manipulates the
public accounts in JvAe, to prevent the year showing
more than a nominal surplus.
By the way, what do they call an accountant
who manipulates his books so as to produce
a juggled balance-sheet in commercial
circles? And do they hand him an illumi-
nated address or what?
Warwick Argus, after having been in the
hands of the Morgan family . for 50 years,
has been purchased by Dunn, of the Mary-
borough Chronicle, whose son will assume
the editorship. The Argus is one of the
few Queensland papers that have preserved
a semblance of political independence of
late years.
The South African Government, which re-
cently deported certain indignant Labor men,
was not always so uncivil to the party. Three
years ago, when Fisher and some friends
were touring in Boerland sumptuous corri-
dor saloon carriages, with dining, sleeping
and observation compartments, were provided,
and a cook and steward were told off to
accompany them. Fisher isn’t half so well
treated in his own Bananaland.
In the matter of gigantic coal seams
Queensland easily wipes out the rest of Aus-
tralia. Close to Gladstone lie seams of great
thickness and extensive area. Blair Athol
(Clermont) can show its 40ft. of solid black
diamond, while Mount Mulligan already-brags
about an infant seam of 30ft. Bowen, if all
reports be true, bids fair to out-rival New-
castle in its future output, and to redeem its
neglected port history by a big mineral pro-
duction.
Cherry Bloom.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Is was a little crooked street, with houses
walled about
And rags stuffed in the window frames to
keep the showers out,
With scraps of paper, gutter-borne to some
sunk grating’s gloom,
And yet a wind came dancing here and sig-
nalled “Cherry bloom !”
(O cherry bloom! O cherry bloom! I guess
the way you grow.
The rain has played a wizard trick and
turned your green to snow.
O cherry bloom! O cherry bloom, the sly
wind told me so!)
It was a mean and ugly street, the haunt
of rags and dirt,
Of stagnant and uncovered drains where
broken pipings squirt.
A cabman’s yard adjoined the street, a-hum
with bloated flies,
And rubbish pyres that offered up an acrid
sacrifice....
Wise people did not walk this way, for vice
might harbor here.
The womenfolk had unkempt hair, the men-
folk reeked of beer;
But where a sick child’s window turned a
blind eye from her room
That rampant Socialist, the wind, came
shouting “Cherry bloom!”
(O cherry bloom ! O cherry bloom! You
float above the grass,
The daisies lift their fring&d heads to let
your shadow pass.
O cherry bloom! O cherry bloom, and warm
sweet smell of grass !)
It was a crowded tenement with misery
brooding over,
And yet the breeze climbed into it, caress-
ing like a lover.
The sick child clapped her pallid hands, for
all her squalid room
Seemed carpeted with sunny grass, and
walled with cherry bloom!
(O cherry tree! O cherry tree! the angels
o’er you trod.
It was to clasp their golden feet you
climbed up from the sod.
O cherry bloom! O cherry bloom! The
first Spring kiss of God!)
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, April 11, 1914.
My Dear Thar'gomindaii,—
There is a great scattering of the Mac-
gregor clan this Eastertide. His Ex. is
spending his holiday with a chosen few down
the Bay, and Lady Macgregor and the fair
daughter are away in the Roma district.
Last Friday week they hied them off to
Urella station, where their august presence
maketh glad the hearts cf the Donald
Fletchers. They will return to vice-regal
Fernberg in time to entertain a party on
board the Lucinda, at Henley, on the ISth.
The big ripple on the social sea this week
was the tea-party given by the wealthy E. D.
Miles sept, at their Ascot mansion, as a fare-
well to Mrs. Arthur Earl and Mrs. Railway-
Commissioner Evans, previous to their trip
to Peckham Rye and other places in Eng-
land.
The charity performance at the Dandies
came off triumphantly last Monday, and
AFRAID OF FLOOD.
MANLY RESIDENT (proudly exhibiting the ocean to Outback friend): “Ain't it awe-
inspirin', magnificent?”
FRIEND : “My oath. But I wouldn ’ like to live ’bout here in flood-time.”
the beauteous sweet-sellers did a howling
trade. Governor Macgregor, wearing his
grass-widowerliood with equanimity, came
up to time and circumstance, supported by
his trusty understudy, Arthur Morgan, and
liis missus (who captured the vice-regal
bouquet of crimson roses). Mrs. Mayoress
Jenkinson and Mr. “Dandies” McCallum
received the visitors, and all went well.
That is to say, business was brisk, compli-
ments were at par and geniality was skying
the market.
This brilliant city of ours is invaded by
a cheery horde of visiting bowlers, and some
of their wives. All the bowling-greens have
been treated to a shave and a hair-cut, and
look in the pink of condition. The East
Brisbane Bowling Club was particularly
pleased with itself, for it had just finished
its new pavilion in time for the Carnival.
Last Saturday its president and Mrs.
Faulkner entertained all the metropolitan
bowlers and croquet players. They came in
crowds, and the opinion was freely ex-
pressed that the South would have difficulty
in showing a better green. The tournament
games commenced yesterday (Good Friday),
to the disapprobation of many, but to the
pagan onlooker it seems a most blameless
and virtuous game, almost as innocent as
marbles.
The races this afternoon attracted a
goodly crowd, a large proportion of it being
country visitors. The dressing was in keep-
ing with the sultriness of the day, the
womenfolks present having presumably
raked up the remains of their summer ward-
robe.
Yours perspiringly,
AUSTRALIAN JANE.
“Chasuble”: Wyndham Heathcote scores
as the new Melbourne Unitarian pastor,
but is even less of a Unitarian than Walters,
Rignold’s “Joseph of Canaan” man, who
quarrelled with the Melbourne congregation
because he was not Unitarian enough. In
short, Heathcote strikes me as a complete
agnostic. He even seems to object to
Jehovah, as a human invention, and to be a
Pantheist, so far as tangible. For long the
Unitarians had a tomblike little place, until
Walters, to whom they were so ungrateful,
was instrumental in building the present
fine little church. Apart from him, the line
of pastors has been dismal in non-apprecia-
tion : Higginson, Pillars, Martha Turner
(H. G. Turner’s sister, afterwards Mrs.
Webster), Lambley, Sinclaire and Reid.
Wybert Reeve, the actor, preached there on
one or two Sundays.
Although the breezy Melbourne suburb of
Northcote contains some 20,000 inhabitants,
and quite as many beer foundries as the next
burgh or bailiwick, only eight residents were
last year convicted locally of tanglefooted-
ness. The most popular explanation of the
mystery is that the prevailing brick dust
coats'the stomach of the Northcoteite with a
spongy lining which acts as a peerless beer-
absorbent. It was a Northcote “brickie” who
said that it was only after his 17th matutinal
pint that his mouth felt moist enough to
tackle his breakfast.
The Wimmen’s Liberal Leagues of Aus-
tralia, and other bodies which are in the
habit of charging Sosh with irreligion, and
designs upon Christianity and the Home,
should read Aaron Hoskin’s new anti-
Socialistic work, “With Other Races.” Some
extracts :—-
“Love of Rest is the root of Socialism, which is
a parasite that grows upon civilisation.” “Socialism
will sweep over Australia and perhaps the world,
with the same disastrous effects that early Christian-
ity swept over the Roman Empire.” “The saints went
barefooted and worshipped at this horrible swindle of
a Holy Sepulchre.” “Now Saladin was one of those
creatures who stand out and redeem the human race
at an age when it appears destitute of human
attributes.” “Christ was only a religious and Social-
ist crank —nothing more.”
The Bulletin isn’t so imbecile as to sug-
gest that because one anti-Socialist writer
thinks this way that therefore a hatred of
Christianity is the keynote of the anti-Sosh
propaganda—in which respect it displays a
more sportsmanlike spirit than Liberalism
has done in the past. Still it would do the
Wimmen’s Leagues good, on general prin-
ciples, if they studied Mr. Hoskin’s volume.
The gullibility of the spirit rappers is per-
fectly amazing. A book has just been pub-
lished in Maoriland by one of the foremost
snook experts in the great Fan land, in it
is printed (amongst hundreds of others) a
message supposed to have been received by a
M.L. “circle” £»om a Chinaman who died
2 a oo years ago in Central China. It is in
English. More wonderful, it is in “pidgin”
English. Of course, English wasn’t in-
vented then. Neither was the Chinaman,
lie was invented quite recently.
The Equivalent of Pouring £100 per
Week into Sydney Harbor.
Eveby now and then the taxpayer of N. S.
Wales reads in a daily paper that his im-
ported State Governor has been visiting the
Jenolan Caves, or lodging a mild, Sabbath-
school shaft in the vitals of pugilism; or
opening a Twilight Home or Resort for
Strayed Goats or what not; and thereby the
taxpayer is enabled to remember that he is
still disbursing good money for a luxury
which he was assured would be abolished
upon the arrival of Federation. By the
present look of things Unification and Recon-
struction will have to come before there is
any hope of scotching the ancient anomaly;
and even then there is a likelihood of the
usual Jingo idiot stepping forward and advo-
cating the importation of English knights or
J’s.P. to act as stage monarchs of the re-
distributed States, x'he trouble in this con-
nection arises from the fact that State Labor
Ministries appear to be fully as eager to
retain the imported State figurehead as Lib-
eral ones are —and this despite the fact that
the abolition of the office of State Governor
is a leading plank on the Labor platform.
According to the daily papers Lady Edelink
Strickland’s health is so poor in Australia
that she is returning presently to England.
In this event her husband may be expected
shortly to tear himself away as well. The
opportunity will be an excellent one for W.
A. Holman to show himself more stiff-
necked on an issue of very considerable im-
portance than his predecessor was. It is no
secret that ex-l’remier McGowen and his
family were very successfuly nobbled by the
Colonial office during their recent visit to
London. “Honest James,” or whatever his col-
leagues call him, began by hammering rivets
on an East End boiler, and ended up by buy-
ing a Windsor uniform. He returned to N. S.
Wales a passionate upholder of the con-
ventional Imperial point of view—one phase
of which is that the Jenolan Caves can’t be
visited, or pugilism assailed, or Twilight
Homes opened by any Governor who is not
a British man of title ; that is if the Empire
is to remain secure. The. end of Sir Gerald
Strickland’s term here will give Premier
Holman the chance to prove the imbecility
of this aged superstition. Why Australia
has not long since adopted the sensible Cana-
dian system of appointing its State Governors
is to this paper a standing mystery. In
Canada the State Governor is selected prim-
arily by the Governor-General in Council.
Supposing a flagrantly partisan appointment
is made, the Governor-General has the right
to veto it. In the unlikely event of no com-
promise being arrived at between the Gov-
ernor-General and his advisers, the matter
goes to the Crown for adjudication. This
arrangement is calculated to obviate the
appointment of anyone like Harry Holland,
on the one hand, or Henry Dangar, M.L:C.,
on the other. It operates in practice to pro-
cure the selection of fairly desirable men. As
a matter of fact, the job of finding a satis-
factory Governor is a childishly easy one.
Under a Constitution such as that of N. S.
Wales almost anyone with sufficient intel-
lect and moral character to conduct a whelk
stall is capable of govving for an indefinite
period. What blithering foolishness it is
in the circumstances to go on importing
nonentities from England for the billet, and
paying them on the same basis as though
they were first-rate men struggling with vast
responsibilities!
«
A Sydney paper interviewed the great
Colonel Lassetter a few days since re the
breaks in the railway gauge, and published
this information: —
The standard gauge all over the world is 4ft. B£in.
The Victorians have the wider gauge simply be-
cause, in the old days of inter-State rivalry, they
had always to go one better than N.S.W. With
Queensland, their narrower gauge was simply a
matter of cheapness.
It may not be a matter of much importance,
yet even in the small matter of a railway
gauge it is worth while to tell the truth.
Victoria wasn’t trying to “go one better
than N.S.W.” when the disastrous break of
gauge was started. The trouble was that
N.S.W. never would keep faith. It broke
the agreement re a uniform gauge just as it
did the one re a uniform tariff, and just as
it broke its pledges over the first Federal
Constitution. The original bargain, made
with the advice of the British Government,
which interfered in a lot of details in the
earlier days, provided for a uniform 4ft. SUn.
gauge over N.S.W., Victoria and S.A. Then
N.S.W. got up on its bumptious ear, and
intimated that the Irish gauge (sft. 3in.)
was going to be its choice. Victoria and
S.A. grumbled at this high-handed dictation,
but they gave in for the sake of peace, recog-
nising that Ma was a very important sort
of female, and they got to work very hard.
Meanwhile N.S.W. rested for a year or two.
Finally the Ma State really started railway
building, but having changed its mind again
it went back to the 4ft. BUn. gauge—the one
it had bullied Victoria and S.A. into abandon-
ing. After that no more agreements were
attempted, and any old gauge was regarded
as eood enough.


TRAWL FISHERIES LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1910.)
CAPITAL £75,000, divided into 300,000 Shares of 5 - each.
Directors.
Hon J. HUME COOK J.P. (Chairman of Directors, Victorian Orchardist Co-operative Association Limited), Melbourne, Orchardist.
r dixON Esu (Managing Director O.T. Limited), Prahran, Manufacturer,
j* p. SENNITT, Esq. (Messrs. J. P. Sennitt & Son Pty., Ltd.), South Melbourne, Manufacturer.
Mnnanina Director: E. HOWELL, 31 Queen Street, Melbourne.
EVERYONE. SHOULD
THE DAIRY FARMER—
BECAUSE FISH OIL is far superior to and cheaper than Feeding
Meals; is a substitute for the cream taken out of milk by Separators,
and is very remunerative, as it supplies AT A. MUCH LESS CO SI
the fatty and nutritious matter which has been taken away with the
cream.
THE POULTRY FARMER—
BECAUSE Ducks, Fowls and Turkeys prefer Fish Meal to Corn,
and become large and heavy when fed upon it.
THE AGRICULTURIST—
BECAUSE careful and observing farmers assert that Fish Meal is
of equal value with good hay, ton per ton, and that its value for
manure is in no degree diminished by passing it through the living
mill and thus reducing it to a much more convenient state for
applying.
THE HORTICULTURIST—
BECAUSE FISH FERTILIZER from the inception of the
industry has met with great success. It constitutes one of the
BE A SHAREHOLDER
main sources of organic nitrogen. Its nitrogen is in a foim fiom
which it is readily rendered available by the bacterial and other
action taking place in the soil.
THE GRAZIER—
BECAUSE Sheep thrive well on Eisli Meal, get fat and yield heavier
fleeces; the average increase of wool being l-|lb. per year, I ish Oil
is unsurpassed for raising cattle.
THE VIGNERON—
BECAUSE FISH FERTILIZER is in great demand by wine
growers on the Continent, British Mills being unable to supply the
demand.
THE CATERER—
BECAUSE it will enable him to have a regular supply of choice
food. It reduces his cost bill in purchasing.
THE HOUSEHOLDER-
BECAUSE it ensures a regular and cheap, nutritious food.
SUPPORT THIS GREAT NATIONAL INDUSTRY by taking up Shares.
The price is within the reach of all II- application; II- allotment.
Prospectus and Forms of Application may be had from any Sharebroker, or from E. Howell, Broken Hill Chambers, 31 Queen St„ Melbourne
mm
*
\
»
* ft
F
|Sgy 1 ..,;
'
sr
mb
a sm
:B
FLETCHER, RUS SELL &C 2
!» «■■■«
, A
!S9L Ji
COOK IN COMFORT
EVEN IN MIDSUMMER.
Of course you found the heat unbearable cooking by coal or wood fire all this
long Summer?
Prevent a repetition of it by having the
FLETCHER-RUSSELL Gas Stove
installed. It means a “piping hot” oven, saucepans and kettles boiled “in no
time,” and a perfectly cool kitchen—you see the heat is all concentrated under
the cooking—doesn’t heat the room up “till you’re ready to drop. Besides the
“Fletcher-Russell” makes no mess, and does its work without the constant
attention a fire requires. Users of “Fletcher-Russells put the cookables on,
set the taps—which are regulated with a touch —enjoy 9 u J;** o rvfs
and on their return find the cooking “done to a turn. Our httle book on Gas
Cooking is free. Ask or write for it.- It also explains why Cooking can be done
so economically on the “Fletcher-Russell.”
John Banks 8 Son Propty. Ltd.,
324 Pitt Street, near Liverpool Street,
SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE ADDRESS:
391
BOURKE STREET.


•■‘L
%.* . ;
m
'1..V3
Weakly
Childr en
you only knew how
SCOTT’S Emulsion brings
health and strength to weak-
ly children, you would never
be .without it in your home.
Children love this creamy
strength-maker which pro-
vides tie exact nutriment
for growing muscles, tissues
TRADE MARK.
and bones at
the same time
that it promotes
strength to pro-
tect against
wasting disor-
ders, coughs,
colds, whooping-
cough, teething
troubles and
rickets. Give
yourself the
pleasure of
watching your children grow
sturdy and strong on genuine
scorns
Emulsion
which has, indeed, saved the
lives of millions of weakly
children.
ANTINEURASTHIN
NERVE AND BRAIN FOOD TABLETS
Are the scientific result of the research work of the
world’s greatest authorities and specialists. They
build up the nervous system by a process of natural
nutrition, and the benefit gained is lasting and perma-
nent. Antineurasthin as a NERVE FOOD gives
wonderful, results in physical and mental overstrain
and exhaustion, and on account of its beneficial effect
upon THE BLOOD is invaluable in cases of Ansemia,
Rheumatism, etc. Antineurasthin shows remarkable
effect upon THE PROCESS OF NUTRITION,
and marked .and immediate benefit in complaints
arising from weak digestion, dyspepsia, and mal-
nutrition. v Antineurasthin expedites growth, en-
riches the blood (by an increase of red corpuscles)
and restores it to a healthy condition. It increases
mental activity and generally strengthens the nervous
system as well as the physique. Its administration
produces wonderful results in weak children as well
as in those affected with Rickets.
A FREE TRIAL will be sent on receipt of 2d. in
stamps to pay postage by the wholesale distributor,
11. A. Goddard, No. 3 Australasia Chambers, 406-414
Queen Street, Brisbane, or branches: 194 Vickery’s
Chambers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit
Buildings, Queen Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw's
Buildings, Cliff Street, Fremantle; 213 Smeeton’s
Buildings, Queen Street, Auckland.
Serial-No, 810. Guaranteed under the Pure Foods
Act of. New South Wales, by H. A. Goddard. Sydney,
to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure l.ecithin
No. 810.
Mil/iutni
4RNATIO«
talcum i
POWDER- J
Don't Throw
Away Your
Williams*
Talc. Tins.
Post four empty-
tins (any odor)
to the J. B.
Williams Co.,
Box 98, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and we
will send you
without charge
d
Williams’
exquisite Silver-
plated Vanity
Box, with
Powder
Puff and
Concentra-
ting Mir-
ror, exact-
ly like il-
lustration.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
skj , - or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
two. j (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security of Government
■UeDentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New
Zealand - STAT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, VM.L.C., Chairman; The Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.; The Hon. R. J. Black,M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. E. Winchombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
Knox, Esq., K.C.; Sir Alex. MacCormick, M.D. General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teece, F.1.A.,
F.F.A., F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Choose a “ Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
piore out of a pen than others have
giyen. We can satisfy' such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
■
“Swan Safety"
Can’t Leak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch t
Catalogue free on request.
MAEIE, TODD & CO., London and
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE 5 Primrose Buildings,
255 a George St.,
Sydney.
KNOWLEDGE IS POWER
Thirty years of assiduous study of The Hair and its Treatment, and all
, ?, Diseases as they affect the Scalp and Hair, have given me the means
ot 1 reserving the Hair, and producing a new growth, after all other preparations
have failed.
Mi. I< red Peakman, of Wairoa, New Zealand, is another wonderful case. Ilis hairdresser tells me
tie had not a scrap of hair, and now, after a few months’ treatment with my preparations, he has
got a splendid growth of hair.
Mr. O Itourke, Wee Waa, New South Wales, writes: “My head, which was nearly bald, has now
come back to its usual growth.”
ot> r : or 'l y a little down on my head when I commended to use your
SPECIAL PARASENL and COSMO LOTION ; now I have a beautiful head of hair.”
Gentlemen who are going bald should use Special Parasene and Cosmo Lotion, one at
night and the other in the morning, and wash the head once a week with Shampuna.
Price (with postage, two months’ treatment): Victoria, 12/-: four months, 22/(1 Other
States, 12/6 and 23/6.
Ladies with hair falling out should apply Restorer at night, and Cosmo Lotion in the
morning, and wash the head as often as necessary with Shampuna.
Naturaline is a splendid preparation for coloring Grey Hair. It acts quickly, naturally
and effectively, and is perfectly harmless. Made in all colors. Get the right strength.
No. 1 for Light Brown Hair; Medium for Medium Brown Hair.
No. 2 for D&VR Brown or a Light Black; Extra Strong for very Black Hair.
Price: Victoria, with postage, 6/3. Other States, 6/8.
E. HOLLAND
Scalp and Hair Specialist,
195 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
London’s Homeliest Hotel
HE Hotel Great Central has a character all
its own. With tube station adjoining and
buses and railway termini at hand, the visitor
finds access to any part' cf Eondon or the Provinces
especially easy. Si tuation exceptionally healthy: cuisine
dainty, yet substantial. Suites en fdmille at special terms
for prolonged stay. Spacious Palm Court. All the
comfort of English Home Life, a
moderate tariff, and features
exclusive in London Hotel Life*
X'
N
Y X
JFfot&T
Hunyadi Janos
For such troubles as Constipation, Biliousness, Indigestion,
Torpid Liver, Hemorrhoids and kindred ills, Hunyadi Janos
is of great value. It promptly and thoroughly cleanses
the system of all effete matter if taken regnlarly in doses of a
wine-glassful each morning before breakfast. Its free action
upon the intestines has the happy effect of giving relief in an
almost instantaneous way. '
Purchase a bottle of Hunyadi Janos to-day. All chemists sell it*
The Famous NATURAL Aperient Water.
There's Danger in Unclean False Teeth!
People who use only the best dentifrices
for their natural teeth are satisfied to
simply wash the false teeth in water.
This is a positive danger to health.
It is easy to keep artificial teeth and
plates sweet and clean with DENSO, the
Perfect Cleanser.
However discolored and unnatural false
teeth may have become, DENSO will
immediately restore „ them to perfect fit,
cleanliness and color. Send' Id. stamp
for postage on FREE Sample. [2
DENSO
Thoroughly
Cleanses!
J. M. Wilkes 8 Co., Alphington, Melb., Vic.
BUNYIP FOREST
DEVIL!
SAVES POUNDS
While CLEARING.
You must clear your land to make money.
Prosperity follows the plough. Big trees,
huge boulders, ugly stumps all give way to
the “BUNYIP” FOREST DEVIL, that roots
them out as though they were weeds. Simple
“•to work, economical and durable. Write: —
John Cooper U Sons,
287-9 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, Victoria.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MSS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
R.T.: In reference to our offer to pay
£lOO to the “only patriotic Australian”—if such
there be—you say with a shrinking, flower-like
modesty that appeals to ys considerably: “I am the
only Australian with brains and com-
bined. I was responsible for Federation. I smashed,
by my letters, the attempt to seize the name of
Australia for N. S. Wales. I answered all the at-
tackers of Federation till the last of them caved in.
I sent an open letter (paid for as advt.) denouncing
the attempt to make Lyne first Prime Minister, and
Barton cut me dead later on after being largely the
means of his becoming such, and that because I
publicly claimed to be the Father and Founder of
the movement for Unity. I have strenuously fought
for an Australian Navy and Compulsory Training
when the burden of replying in the dailies to cease-
less attacks was left wholly to me. Finally, I claim
that there would have been no Federation but for me,
that there would have been no Australian Navy, no
Compulsory Training and no general White Aus-
tralia policy, which I inaugurated in a pamphlet I
published in 1880. Now send along your £lOO. I
know you will not send a copper, and that on to
the end it shall be mine to sow where others reap.”
r> -ML*? imposing record, but your supposition re the
£lOO is correct. As a matter of fact, a rival got in
before you. He claimed to have made the entire
continent with his own hands; also Tasmania,
Thursday Island, Papua, and most of M.L. What
could we do but hand him over the Cash? John
+ U *u : X° ur , }f^ er hand. It has been submitted
“ “ e . Chle r £, Hieroglyphic Compositor, the Decipherer
of Things that Don’t Mean Anything, the Editor of
Packing Cases and Odd Jobs, the expert who runs
the Assyrian, Sumerian, Akkadian, Coptic and Baby-
lonmn hnotype, and the Chief Ancient Hebrew
Office Boy. They all reckon there is nothing in it.
.... w. 1.; Cardinal Moran was an unsuccessful bandi-
• e -.oJ£ t ; le 4 ustralian National Convention, elected
JIL/w 7 tp d f,aft the Constitutio/i; but he never
stood for the Senate Dunedin; The lotteries are
!• a* / heae vast gambles are run under the aigis
of the State—France, Belgium, and other European
ar rivfn.fr '' w f' S ' = , Coiltnbu tions on current affairs
arriving on Wednesday are belated. We like to hear
the lion roar on passing topics, but if he isn’t a
member of the staff he should roar not later than
Monday in order to have his remark printed. An
unpunctual lion is really a nuisance 8.F.A.: You
send in vast batches of news-items taken from
f°f! v n i a ’ £ York papers, and done into what you
fondly tern The Bulletin style” and then express
wonderment that none of them appear. Go to We
have .a, pair of scissors Stale Mate
Youj story of duck-killing is veiy. very old. The
two variations are that you place the slaughter in
a new. locality and allege that the duck-, .v!r l an
aboriginal with a wooden leg. If you said 1 > had a
a Miss
muster.,. .J.p. (M.L.) : You start your paragraph
about the alleged centenarian in Invercargill with
the statement: “There are not many people living
S f h0 A rfd'° n fis Planet before Waterloo wa!
ought According to the information that reaches
S h Mrf ffiC fJ 6ekly + there a f e thousands of them....
S.McC.. Not up; try again Cheyne: The gentle-
man you inquire about was attacked or waykid or
Mixfd ai Drfnks° U f hl § h J a Y by enemies called
Mixed Drinks. He defended himself valiantly with
an empty bottle, but was overpowered. For that
reason he vanished out of politics years ago. He
m stm alive but perhaps he doesn't* want S t o meet
you—..A You only “have fair grounds for
one eV nT S the hat | t m is an im P° st °r, and you occupy
one of the staff s time to the extent of half a
p°ut u Ti„ i- e d “ ,d
tj? 16 ? <^ acen * would be dangerous. .. .W Larkin*
The whole world is infested with absurd folks who
Bnf 1 fh a p tU ° USly tJ }f fc \ hCy are 100 ears 01,1 or more
oprflfl th f y are a - ! P bscure characters whose birth
certificates are missing and whose early doings are
causes Th* , S m mySter f Tbe circumstance Ihth
causes The Bulletin to regard them as impostors is
that no Insurance Office has ever had dealings with
an authentic centenarian; no king, queen emperor
empress, president, apostle, inquisitor, general states-
man or Pope has ever lived to be 100 ; nor has anv-
promlnent "forVod S firetVaY 0
doubt Pabl J Mrd b p in ” ’ ocated b e yon d possibility^
talked for hours and said nothing. And very often
he said both things simultaneously, or said half of one
thing and half of another. But we don’t remembe?
him saying the thing you mention—not that it would
have mattered if he had.... Robert W. (Hornsby)-
No; the item you refer to was the work of another
eohimn HtT D .*v HeVer referred to in this
column... .M.1.8.D.. Your saw wasn’t in good trim
when you were making those verses... .F.C B?: V«v
lnn Cl ?pr pc .°, m ’ but har dly flood enough for print. Are
you for widows or agin ’em? 0.L.: You ought to
change vour lodgings. The Piccolo: Not useabfe . ?
IT 1 ? Unsuitable John S • Swear
that brand J0hn....80w Wow: Try prose
nesses completely. Cling to vour
I? b 'i • • Klab: bani rhyme is not for print Bob' YV.:
Good theme, but you can’t stand up to it.,. A Sated
Australian: Can t cheer you up by publishing your
blanky poem ..Thirroul: Graceful, but hardly enough
skill. ...State M.. No snap L.A.R.: No Fresh-
man: You can’t write....Beltana: Refuse to print
poem. ° US * J - N ’ B - : Very poor herse-
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
p„ C ‘i D ’ : P ? rsonal cartoons of foreign identities not
nearly good enough... .L.C.: Looks like an old ga"
f.™™ ruinous... M.W.: Why not learn
about the artistic job ?.... J.A.T.: Wrong market. Try
it elsewhere .Ben S.: Try and think out an original
lest.. ..Roy R. : You would be surprised if you knew
S 0", h . ttle demand there is in the black-and-white
world for perfectly flat people, withered limbs, swollen
feet and such oddities.
St. Joseph’s Band of Launceston (Tas.),
is the oldest brass band in the Common-
wealth, this being its 68th year. Sixty-eight
times has St. Jo’s played “St. Patrick’s Day
in the Morning, ’ and its records, mostly kept
in a book that looks as if it came from a
grocer’s counter, shows that it was used to
serenade John Mitchell, while he was lying
low in Launceston, waiting to make his
escape from the island. Mitchell was in
hiding in the Cornwall Hotel—once the pro-
perty of John Pascoe Fawkner— and the
band was ordered to practise in the Cornwall
Assembly Rooms next door —now the hotel
dining-room. The band knew nothing
of John Mitchell. It played Irish airs with-
out design, and so serenaded the Irish patriot
unbeknownst. A few years back the old in-
stitution split over a change in conductor-
ship, and the schism had to be settled in
court with a pro forma action for illegal de-
tention of a tambourine or a copy of the
“Maiden’s Prayer,” or something. Senator
Keating anneared for half the band, with
Clarke on the other side, and the breach was
finally healed. To-day St. Jo’s blows “St.
Patrick s Day” with a blast unanimous.


p
COOKE’S
PATENT
REVERSIBLE
LEVEL
Specially designed with two objects in view:
first, to afford an easy, efficient, and at all
times available means of adjusting the line of
collimation of the telescope to perfect perpen-
dicularity to the vertical axis of the instrument;
and, secondly, to obtain a form of construction
in which elegance and great compactness are
attained and strength and rigidity secured.
Pamphlet describing construction, and on the
adjustment of above on application.
A. P. GREENFIELD & CO. LTD.,
189 George Street, Brisbane,
Sole Australian Agents.
£lOOO
U n
Prizes
£lOOO
Work of Art. Work of Art
First Great Prize, value £5OO
or Twelve Months’ Trip Round the World and
£lOO In Cash for ONE PERSON,
or Eight Months for Two.
Note. —The Committee, having paid full
value for the work of art, is prepared to find
a purchaser for same at the advertised
amount if the winner so desires, also for the
Second and Third Prizes.
Second, Value £lOO.
Third, Value £5O.
And 97 other Prizes, totalling £lOOO.
Eight Hours
Great Art Union
58th Year —Oldest and Most Popular—
58th Year.
Proceeds in Aid of the Hospitals and
Public Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners free of
all charges. A list of winning numbers will
be posted to any person on sending an ad-
dressed envelope to the representative, with
stamp unaffixed.
Buy from your Local Agent on or before
2nd May, or send Postal Note, P. 0.0., or
stamps with Exchange added, direct to the
representative, 165 Flinders-lane, Melbourne,
at once for tickets, and secure a chance in
this great Art Union, 22 for £l, 11 for 10s.,
or Is. each.
All direct applications must reach Melbourne
before the date of drawing, 19th May, 191 ff.
Lest You Forget, Buy To-day
vac!
M"
JUICE I
There’s Sauce for you!
Montserrat
Lime Juice Sauce suits
all tastes, and owing to its
purity, adds a zest to food,
without upsetting the most
delicate digestion. It helps
your food to feed you.
Jsk your Storekeep r for It.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
THE HANDIEST
MEDICINE OF ALU
Australians will find
the most useful household remedy
for Impure Blood, Boils, Pimples,
Constipation, Liver Troubles, Rheu-
matism, Want of Energy, and all
Stomach Complaints.
“Golcryst” is made from Epsom
Salts, Seima, Sarsaparilla, Dandelion,
Liquorice and Ginger, and is thus not
a quack remedy with a secret formula.
Packets: 3d., 6d. & Is.
Free Sample posted by Proprietors.—
ROQKE, TOMPS3TT & CO.,
MELBOURNE. [2
For Public Information only, the whole of the Shares having been
privately subscribed. - - •
TRONG TIN NO LIABILITY,
State of Perak, Federated British Malay States.
CAPITAL: £BO,OOO, Divided into 80,000 Shares of £1 each.
30,000 shares credited as fully paid up issued to the Perak Rivers Tin No
Liability, and £2500 cash.
30,000 shares, on which 5/- has been paid, have been subscribed for, and the
balance in calls of 1/- per month.
20,000 shares held in reserve.
80,000
Directors: J. S. MEAGHER, Barrister-at-Law, Melbourne
A. W. PALFREYMAN, Manufacturer, Melbourne. D. T. BEDGGOOD, Manufacturer, Melbourne.
All the Directors are members of, and the two first-mentioned are also Directors of, Perak Rivers Tin
No Liability, the vendor company.
Manager: E. J. KENNEDY, National Mutual Buildings, 395 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Bankers: THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, Melbourne.
Solicitors: L. CARDEN MEAGHER, Normanby Chambers, Melbourne.
Auditors: J. HOWARD EGAN, Temple Court, Melbourne. Messrs. EVATT and CO., Penang.
The whole issue of 30.000 shares was underwritten by Mr. A. W. Palfreyman for a remuneration of
6d. per share, after Mr. Tlios. Horton, of Sydney, had, on the underwriter's behalf, check-bored certain
portions of the company’s property.
Report by Mr. R. T. Hugger.
The property comprises an area of approximately 720 acres of tin-bearing land at Bruas, near
Trong, Perak, Federated British Malay States.
SITUATION.—The property is situated 26 miles from Taiping, the capital, town of the State of
Perak, Fed. Malay States. It lies to the cast of and between the 25th and the 26th milestone on the
macadamised main road from Taiping to the Dindings, which form its western boundary.
TITLES.—The whole of the land is taken up under licenses issued by the Perak Government. This
license reserves the sole right to apply for and receive the usual renewable mining lease for 21 years
issued by the Perak Government, and which will be subject-to the ordinary conditions and-terms-of
labor employment or its equivalent in machinery, rent and prg duties. , . • * ■
AREA PROSPECTED.—Out of the 720 acres, approximately 150 acres have been close bored and
found to contain highly payable values, 180 acres have been wide bored, and found to contain ‘payable
values; while approximately 250 acres of suitable ground remains to be proved. -* v
DESCRIPTION.—The property consists of a large, swampy flat, on to which several valleys debouch
from the high granite hills and mountains east of the flat. Two of these valleys are included in the
property, and can be worked as well as the flat by the same plant without any dismantling. Small
streams continually running down several ravines in the granite ranges at the heads of and on the north
and south sides of each of the valleys form a swamp, through which runs l a never-failing stream through-
out the entire length of each valley. These streams join the River ltotan on the flat, whose course is
from north to south along the flat, and about 20 chains to the west of the valleys’ openings. Both the
valleys and the flat are covered with light timber and the ordinary jungle growth, while the ranges
abutting carry heavy hardwood timber highly suitable for fuel. ■
TRANSPORT.—The property is excellently situated as regards transport, being but 13 miles from a
small ietty at Trong, by the well-made and well-kept main Government road, or 25 miles by the same
road from Taiping, the capital town of Perak. This road forms the western boundary of the property,
and is practically level from Taiping. '
PROSPECTING. —One valley only, viz., the northern one, has been close bored. Ninety-two bores at
3x4 chain intervals have proved an area of approximately 150 acres to be highly payable; while over
30 bores at 6 x 6 chain distances show that the body of wash extends over at least 180 acres, m the
valley to the south, and to carry payable values. From the boring plan it will be immediately seen that
no rich run of ore has been followed : but the bores were put down at as regular intervals as possible, and
along the lines cut through the jungle for the purpose. • ■* ' ... ~
WASH DIRT The karang, or wash, is a clean, coarse granitic sand and gravel mixed with small
waterworn stones‘up to a size of 3in. x liin. (say, a duck’s egg), underlying a Jxody of jalt and fine
sand and resting on an even bottom of soft, decomposed granite. In the northern valley close boring
proves'* the * body 0 of karang over an area of' approximately 150 acres to be lift, thick, of an average
1 « noil. i-• .• J „ -trovrl TVIO Q Vfl T 1 (T IS f>nVf
valueof 2 361b' of tin oxide per cubic yard. The karang is covered by an average depth of 10ft. of silt
and fine sand ‘(the former being about 6ft. deep and the latter which carries fine ore not saved in
boring 4ft deep), thus making the whole an average depth of 21ft. from surface to bottom with an
average value of 1 251 b. of tin oxide per cubic yard overall. Wide boring in the southern valley proves
the karang to extend there over at least an area of 182 acres. The boring shows it to average 16ft. thick,
of an average value of 1.161 b. of tin oxide per cubic yard. The karang rests on an even bottom of soft,
decomposed granite, a soft sand, or a soft clay, and underlies a friable, sandy overburden, averaging
Bft. deep, making a depth of 24ft. from surface to bottom, averaging 81b. of tin oxide per cubic yard
overall This ore and karang is similar in all respects to that in the northern valley. # >
QUALITY AND GRADE OF ORE. —The ore is practically free from the usual impurities found in
these States, and has the high metallic value of 744 per cent, to 75i per cent. A purity of 73 per cent,
will easily be reached, and maintained, by treatment in bulk. Moreover, the ore is of an easy, saving
grade as a series of carefuLtests showed that 20 per cent, of the ore was so coarse as to prevent it from
passing through a sieve whose mesh was 20 holes to the square inch, that 60 per cent, of the ore was
between 20 and 50, 10 per cent, between 50 and 80, 7 per cent, between 80 and 100; while 3 per cent,
was finer than the last-mentioned measurement.
AREA UNBORED. —The valley close bored, and the one wide bored, as well as a third now being
profitably worked by some 230 Chinese coolies, debouch on to the large flat before mentioned. This flat
contains approximately 300 acres, which should be prospected, as all the valleys are to all purposes
merely arms or extensions of the large, swampy flat. .
ADJOINING AND PAST WORKINGS. —Evidences of work done in times long past are visible in the
ranges in the shape “of ground sluices, watercourses, etc. At the mouth of the northern valley, the
remains of some old Malay smelting works are also to be seen. The ore from the ranges alone was
apparently treated as both the valleys and the flat are quite virgin. On the north of the granite hill
(Bukit Dusan), forming the northern boundary of the close-bored valley, a third valley debouches on to
the flat This valley contains several Chinese open cast mines, employing about 230 coolies, who are
doing well. The ore is coarse, and of a high metallic value. Their average sales are on a basis of 73
per cent metallic, with ore running to 74 per cent, and 75 percent, metal lip,/: j
CONCLUSION —Every feature relative to a successful and highly-profitable bucket-dredging proposi-
tion is contained in the area, as will readily be seen from the following summary, and given a modern
machine with average running times, say 70 per cent, per month, sound profits must be shown.
Summary.
COARSE, SANDY MATERIAL, WITH NO STICKY CLAY.
A FINE BODY OF TRUE VIRGIN KARANG:
ECONOMICAL DEPTH.
HIGHLY PAYABLE ORE CONTENTS. HIGH-GRADE COARSE ORE, EASILY SAVED AND DRESSED.
SOFT, EVEN BOTTOM. . ***-—-• ■- -- '
NO BOULDERS, SUNKEN TIMBER OR OTHER. OBSTRUCTIONS TO DREDGING.
AN ABUNDANCE OF CLEAN, FRESH WATER. SUITABLE FOR BOILERS AND ALL PURPOSES.
NO SPECIAL APPLIANCES FOR ORE TREATMENT OR SAVING.
HARDWOOD FUEL ON AND SURROUNDING THE PROPERTY IN QUANTITIES THAT WILL MORE
THAN LAST THE LIFE OF THE WHOLE MINE. ...
EASY TRANSPORT. "
NO ONEROUS LEASE CONDITIONS TO OBSERVE.
. _, r _ _ lnl , R. T. HAGGER.
Ipoh, Perak, F.M.S., January 27, 1914. - -
5 "Xi.*
7
A f
C
to
Pem/n§ton-UMC Arms and Ammunition
Appeal to Users
Because they enjoy the confidence
of sportsmen everywhere. Shooters
ambitious to improve their scores
instinctively choose Reminglon-UMC
Ammunition because so many
notable records have been made
with this brand of cartridges. Send
for our special circular and it will
give you a list of these records and
full information concerning them.
Remington-UMC Rifles please their
owners because they are so easy
to take apart, easy to clean, and so
accurate. Their solid breech counts
for strength, for beauty and long
life. You would not have a watch
with the “works” exposed, then
why a rifle? The “works of a
Remington-UMC Rifle 1 are protected
by a solid steel encasement.
Your dealer probably sells Remington-UMCArms and Ammunition* If he does
not as yet, write to us and we will give you the name of one who does—also
send you our catalog and an interesting book Straight Shooting Tips***
Remington Arms—Union Metallic Cartridge Company
299-301 Broadway - / • • New York, U. S. A.
Australian Kepreseiitative: D. 1). liryant, Box 686, Melbourne,
ď
iPoYou Long fora Full Moustache?
Do you wish to have
a manly appearance?
USE
CAPILLAO3NE,
The finest moustache producer on the market. It never fails to develop the hair
Jrowtlwioes not injure the skin-cannot be detected. Why not try tins splendid
preparation ? You will be surprised with the
SEND FOR A JAR TO-DAA—IO/6 post free.
The C & A Moustache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
The C. & A. Mornuan Post Fre ’ e . Send for Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG <a All KEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
“Dudley” Accordeoivs
NO. 1 DUDLEY ACCORDEON,
Siin. x 44in. Mahogany-stained Mould-
ings, 2 Seta Reeds, 10 Nickel Keys
and Pallets, 2 Bass Stops, 8-fold
double Bellows, Nickel corners. 1A
Post Free,
“Bess o’ th’ Barn”
o o O’O o o
Mouth Organs
The full tone and accurate tune of
“Bess o’ th’ Barn” Mouth Organs
place them above all other makes.
The Concert Artist Model, with 20
Reeds,- Nickel Mouthplate and Metal
Case, post free. 9 /
—Other Models, 1/-, 1/6, 3/-.
WRITE FOR LISTS.
Musical Instruments of AH Kinds
A. P, SYKES,
272 Little Collinsstrect,
MELBOURNE,
Cl?e>
ofructalro!
Trade
Mark
m
ii
THE WONDERFUL
STRUCTATOR
19
The most remarkable and original engineering
and construction outfit. Hundreds of designs
and models possible. No nuts or screws used in
any of the combinations. Nothing more fascinat-
ing or instructive for bright boys, a pastime
that may develop the beginnings of a construc-
tion engineer.
Outfits from 10/6 to 12 guineas.
Accessory outfits of the Struetator can always be
had.
To be had of all the leading stores, opticians
and toy-dealers throughout Australasia. If your
own dealer has not the Struetator, write us and
we will see that you are supplied.
STEPHEN BING, 127 York Street, Sydney.
CHALLENGE.
MURPHY CHALLENGES THE WORLD
TO CURE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL
BLEEDING PiLES.
Permanent Cure. Established 1891.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS, NON-
APERIENT,
have cured thousands of cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by
ANDREW MURPHY, WOY WOY,
N.S.W. Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, or a Course of 8
boxes £l. All postage free.
On Sale by all Druggists, Chemists and. Store-
■ keepers throughout the States.
HORL'CKS
MALTED MILK
gives Health and Strength. It
has a delicious taste, ready for
use ana requires no cooking.
It’s the cream of the finest
milk and cereals in powder
form and it means health.
Ask for
Horlick’s ai
the Soda
Poun tain
SlgANDtit*
X I®'*^
THE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price 6cL


Legal Notices.
PURSUANT to an Order of the
Chancery Division of the High
Court of Justice made in the matter of the
estate of Robert Townsend Hippisley de-
ceased Hippisley v. Hippisley 1912 H. 1515
and dated the 12th October 1912 the follow-
ing inquiry is directed, viz.: An inquiry
whether CHARLES ERNEST HIPPISLEY
named in the will of Robert Townsend Hip-
pjsley is living or dead and if dead when he
died and whether he left any and what will
and whether he was ever married and if so
when and to whom and whether there were
any children of the said marriage and who
are his legal personal representatives.
Notice is hereby given that the said
Charles Ernest Hippisley and all persons
claiming through or by descent from him
are personally or by their solicitors on or
before the 4th day of July 1914 to come in
and prove their claims at the Chambers of
Mr. Justice Joyce and Mr. Justice Eve,
Room 692 Royal Courts of Justice, Strand,
London, England, or in default thereof they
will be peremptorily excluded from the bene-
fit of the said order. Wednesday the 15th
day of July 1914 at half-past two in the
afternoon at the said Chambers is appointed
for hearing and adjudicating upon the
claims. Dated the 15th day of December
1913.—A KEEN, Master of the Supreme
Court.
ROBBINS, OLIVEY & LAKE,
218 Strand, London, W.C.,
For ABBOT, POPE & ABBOT,
Bristol,
Solicitors for the Plaintiffs.
Note.—The above-named Charles Ernest
Hippisley who was a son of the testator
Robert Townsend Hippisley a solicitor of
Bristol England is now if alive about 51
years of age. He went to Australia in Feb-
ruary ISB9 and was there employed by
Messrs. Robert Reid & Co., and afterwards
till May 1897 by Messrs. Sands & McDougall
(Limited). He resided at Rochester Lodge,
Collins-place, Melbourne. He left Mel-
bourne in May, 1897, by the Orient Steam-
ship Orizaba for London, where he stayed
one or two months, and is believed to have
resided at 123 Fulham-road, London. In
October, 1897, he left London, and until
April, 1898, was employed by Messrs. J.
Garlick & Co., of Alderley-street, Cape
Town, South Africa, and resided at 43 St.
John-street,. Cape Town. He returned to
Melbourne in 1898, and expressed his inten-
tion of going to Queensland or Sydney. He
is alleged to have been seen in London by an
old schoolfellow in 1908.
Should the above advertisement, which
has reference to benefits accruing to him
under his father’s will, meet the eye of the
said Charles Ernest Hippisley, or in the
event of his death that of his widow or
children, he is (or they are) earnestly re-
quested to communicate with the least pos-
sible delay with his brother Alfred Edward
Hippisley, of 8 Herbert-crescent, London,
S.AV., or with the said Messrs. Abbot, Pope
& Abbot, solicitors, Bristol.
To CHARLES JAMES HOLMES, formerly
of Waiuku, Auckland, New Zealand, but
last heard of in Sydney, and to all persons
claiming by, through or under him.
PURSUANT to the directions of His
Honor Sir Robert Stout, K.C.M.G.,
Chief Justice of New Zealand, under Sec-
tion 25 of the Public Trust Office Amend-
ment Act, 1913, you are hereby called upon
to send into the undersigned, on or before
the Ist day of October, 1914, your claim to
part of the estate of WALTER JOHN
HOLMES, late of Waiuku, Auckland,
Farmer, deceased, who died on the 9th dav
of November, 1905, intestate, failing which
such estate will be distributed among the
persons entitled thereto disregarding vour
claims.
Dated at Wellington this 30th day of
March, 1914.
J. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust -Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
s Missing: Friends.
A Federal Detective Agency.
J. CANTLON
(late' Victorian Detective Police) under-
takes Commercial, Confidential, Next of Kin,
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enquiries,
Searches, Surveillance.
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
THOMAS BAKEWELL PHILLIPS,
last heard of at Forsayth (Queensland),
or anyone knowing his present address, please
communicate with W. H. PHILLIPS,
Myrtle Street, Katoomba, N.S.W. Mother
dead. Important.
For Sale.
TO SAWMILLERS, INVESTORS g Others
c; OR Sale, in an important town on the Dubbo-
-1 Coonamble Railway Line, two (2) acres land
(Torrens’ title), on which are erected Dwelling, Mill
Shed, Engine and Boiler Houses, Timber Racks,
etc., and a complete and up-to-date Sawmill Plant
in thorough working order. For price and further
particulars apply to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & Co., Limited,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
Scientific Instruments
For Every Trade, Industry and Profession.
Hydrometers,
for testing every liquid.
0
!
Do you use Glass Instruments in your
calling? We manufacture and repair
them, and guarantee their perfect
accuracy.
If you wish special Instruments made
for any purpose, tell us your needs
and we will quote you for the neces-
sary design.
Our Booklet, illustrating Scientific
Glassware of every kind, is free. Shall
we send you a copy? It costs you
nothing, and will open your eyes to
the extent of our activities.
Dairy Factory Glassware and Testing
Apparatus a Specialty.
WILSON, NAFIS S CO. LTD.,
Wharf Street, BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
Do Soma De festive Work m Tur Own
AIWAZINC MAKE-UPS
■ Changes ui Disguises
Lot tor Three Shilling!
and we pack and pay carriage.
Hen's a bargain chance, boys I Great lun and amusement
can always be had with this collection of Masks and Make-
ups. You may be naturally handsome, but a nice mous-
tache will make you positively fascinating. Or, if your
beauty is a snare, you can effectually hide it, like the gent
in the middle, #ith a wig, grog-blossom nose and butterfly
whiskers, that can be worn together or separately. Then
you may slip on an animal mask or startle the ladies as a
gentlemanly demon. There are iver at dozen changes you
can effect with all these make-up disguises. Just the thing
for detective work. Even your best girl will not know you.
You could make love 1o your mother-in-law without being
found out; Understand the bargain clearly; the whole
lot, moustache, wig, nose, whiskers, animal and devil]
masks, a good pound’s worth of fun lor 3/- carriage paid.
[Thw Union Co.. 299 Elisabeth St.. Melbourne.
COLORED POST-CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney.
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE——i -
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won’t
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surely with
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 116, posted 119. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
For the Country Horseman
The saddle here illustrated is expressly designed
for country use, for stock riding, etc., and is built
of the best materials throughout. If any of our
friends are requiring such a saddle they will find
this a genuine bargain.
It has a hogskin seat, a plated bar-tree, extra
long flaps, with points to buckle below. An economi-
cal feature is the skirt, which extends all round
and thus adds years of wear to the saddle by pro-
tecting its interior from the weather. It has a
deep, “sweepy” seat, 4in. kneepads, nickel-plated
iron stirrups, and double buckle leather girth. The
price complete is £3/15/- Mention of Thb
Bulletin when ordering will ensure your having a
leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle will
be forwarded freight paid. It is to be obtained
from J. P. Talty, 383 Sus«-;-x Street, Sydney.
rui
CP
COPYING PENCIL
For Manifolding work this
pencil is supremely excellent.
It writes smoothly, wears
well, does not tear the paper
and gives perfect copies.
In 2 degrees—Medium & Hard.
Of Stationers, ficc., everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
LONDON. England.
(Australia: 350, George St, Sydney.)
Write for list,
CP
COPYING PENCIL
w
Dinneford's
Magnesia
DINNEFORD’S
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD'S”
on every bottle
and label.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
Onoto
pen to possess.
A “nib”
in every style
“ Whatever your style of handwriting, you
will Jind that / can supply you with the
very nib that suits you best. Ask /or me
personally at the shop to-day
Don’t put up with the olch
fashioned fountain pen that
needs a filler—get an Onoto.
Don’t keep on using a pen
that leaks—get an Onoto.
The Onoto fills itself with ink
easily and quickly from any ink
supply. It is the one pen that
you can rely upon to fill itself
properly. It can’t leak.
If you buy the wrong kind of pen to-day you will probably wish for an Onoto
to-morrow so be sure to get an Onoto. It is British made and guaranteed by
its makers.
Price 12/- and upwards of all Stationers, Jewellers, and Stores. Booklet about he Onoto Pen free on
application io Ihos Db La Rue A Co., Ltd , BunhiU Row, London. E.C, of 7e Managing
Aeents for Australasia, Norman Baker A Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE HAND
The National
flonthly, 6d.
CURES the DEAF
IN 30JJAYS.
New Discovery Causes Big Stir Amongst
Ear Specialists
£lOO Reward if he fails.
A FREE TRIAL TO ALL.
If you are either totally or partially deaf, or
troubled with ringing or buzzing noises in the head,
you know quite well the humiliation and terrible
suffering that they cause. There is, however, no
longer any reason to be troubled with these condi-
tions, as they can now be quickly and positively
overcome by a. remarkable new discovery. This dis-
covery, since it was brought to light a little over a
year ago, has effected some of the most won-
derful cures ever known, and in subjecting it to
various tests in the worst-known cases of deafness
and head noises, the most miraculous results have
been obtained. Here is a testimonial selected at
random from the hundreds coming to hand every
week. It was written by Miss Wheldon, Sudbury,
Suffolk:—•
“I had been deaf all my life (over 60 years)
and much worse the last five years. I conwflfenced
your treatment, and only used it twice, xcould
hear directly. I had been deaf ever since child-
hood, and thought my case was hopeless. Ybhr
System has also done me a lot of good quite
apart from curing my deafness.”
Such strong faith has the Discoverer in this new
treatment as a positive cure for deafness and head
noises that he has decided to make the following
remarkable offer: He will forfeit the sum of £lOO if
he fails to prove that his treatment actually cures
deafness and head noises; he will forfeit £lOO if
anyone can prove that he was not the actual discoverer
of this wonderful treatment; he will forfeit £lOO
if every testimonial and sworn statement which he
publishes is not absolutely genuine. So astoundingly
successful has this treatment proved in the worst
forms of chronic deafness, head noises, etc., that the
Discoverer will gladly send a free trial to any suf-
ferer who mentions this paper and encloses 4d. to
cover postage. Address: Elmer Shirley (Dept. 203),
6 Great James Street, Bedford Row, London,
England.*
by making use of
suck a satisfactory
metkod of cleaning
tke teetk as
#
0
It is pleasant to know that you
have polished so nicely those teeth
that show.
It is satisfactory to feel that
your teeth are all properly cared
for —thoroughly cleansed with
this antiseptic dentifrice.
And it leaves such a pleasant
feeling of freshness in the mouth.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co.,
Manchester, Eng.
ESTABLISHED 1874.
FOR
COUGHS.
]Mridge’s|
UjungMCj
FOR
COLDS.
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
SOLD BY RETAIL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
STOCKED BY ALL WHOLESALE
DRUG HOUSES in AUSTRALIA.
Prepared by W. T. OWSRIDGE, LTD.
HULL, ENGLAND.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wk Supply—
jAßßAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
An energetic parishioner was discovered in
a Maoriland church the other day making a
few improvements. He had installed a
gramophone in the vestry and cut a hole into
the hall of worship large enough to accommo-
date the funnel. Around the walls he had
artistically pasted a varied selection of illus-
tx'ations from magazines and newspapers.
He explained that it was his fixed intention
to brighten up the services somewhat, and
that he had in his pocket a fully loaded re-
volver and a supply of cordite to help along
the good cause. He emphasised his suspicion
that the singing hadn’t been all it ought to
have been lately, and said he intended to go
farther into the matter. Likewise, if the
parson didn’t show a marked improvement
he would be loaded down with lead and
remorse. As for anyone in the congregation
who sang out of tune, all harmony would be
at end in this life. Then the police arrived
and had the interesting citizen removed for
examination. The doctors said he was in-
sane,_ but they’re in an overwhelming mino-
rity in the neighborhood.
The tale of “F.C.” :
A really absent-minded woman occurred at Ben-
digo (Vic.) the other day. After a pleasant after-
noon s shopping she proceeded to take a tram home,
in company with a go-cart, a baby and a handbag
containing a purse with money, a railway ticket, a
recipe for making lemon honey and a piece of tussore
silk she wanted to match. She deposited her valu-
ables beside her till the tram came along, then
stepped lightly aboard. She had gone about a mile
when it occurred to her that she had forgotten her
hand-bag, so she hastily bestowed the infant on an
accommodating stranger, caught the next returning
tram and recovered her property. She was so upset
by her good fortune that she indulged in a cup of
tea and had reached the middle of the refreshment
when it dawned on her that her baby was missing, so
she took another tram back to where she had first
got off and recovered the child. She then left for
home and had almost got there when she recollected
that she had once had a go-cart about her person.
So she fled wildly back and annexed the vehicle.
It is understood that she reached home ultimately in
fairly good order, and with all her accoutrements
about her. On the other hand, the allegation may
be a mere baseless rumor.


BASH ON FEET
HEADAiJOINTS
Spread and Broke Into Sores. Very
Irritating and Burning* Kept
Awake. Used Cuticura Soap and
Ointment. Eczema Left*
Olybucca, Via Kempsey, if. S. W.—
41 About January I began to be affected by
a rash which spread and brokie but intd sores
its largo as a shilling, dltliougli some word
Smaller in size, it affected me on my feet
and head and also at the joints, and was very
irritating and burning at night especially;
and used to keep me awake.
“I tried various remedies but without
giving hie any relief. , Then after about sii
months Of suffering I bought some Cuticuri
feoajJ, and using it along with Cuticura
Ointment-, the eczema, as I believe it was;
completely left me, and I consider the Cuti-
cura Remedies effected the cure in my case.
“I have met several ladies well known
in the medical and nursing profession whd
are all loud in praise of Cuticura Soap and
Ointment, and everywhere I have beeii
faiyself—l am a canvasser—t hear their
braises.” (Signed) Miss L. Fierponfc;
October, id 12.
If you wish a skin dear Of pimpies, black l
heads and other arinOying eruptions, hands
Soft and white, hair live and glossy, and
scalp free from dandruff and itching, begin
to-day the regular use of Cuticura Soap for
the toilet, bath and shampoo, assisted by
an occasional light application of Cuticura
Ointment. Cuticura Soap and Ointment
are also most valuable for the treatment
Of eczemas, rashes, itchings, irritations
and Other torturing, disfiguring humour3
Of the skin and scalp. A single set is
bften sufficient. Cuticura Soap and Cuti-
fcura Ointment are sold throughout the
tvorld. Liberal sample Of each mailed free,
with 32-p. Skin Book. Address R. Towns
& CO., Sydney, N. S. W.
Violent Cathartics
Injure Health
Don’t take purgatives—their harsh action
is liable to injure the bowels. Why not use
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER
PILLS, a purely vegetable
remedy that has been
successfully used by
millions for half-a-
century. Acts
gfently but surely
and not only
quickly re-,
lieves but
for ever
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
ends the misery of constipation. Use them for dizzi-
ness, indigestion, sick headache and all liver troubles.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The
GENUINE
must bear
Signature
f
r-
yv *. 7
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
age, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. B.
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. B. ALLEN S oi.s.a.)
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suitable
for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Ag< nts for Australia.
PVGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea*
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
I Was bald
And came into possession Of tile
secret of a Genuine Hair Oroweft
My Hair Grew to its Presettt Length in 40 Days.
m,. Git A VuN
BURLEIGH
From a recent
photograph.
THIS ANNOUNCEMENT is oi special intetest tb every MAN
ANb WO At AN vvho has previously tried other IIAIR-GROtVTNG PREPARA-
TIONS. if you have HAb NO SUCCESS MtH OTHERS, please write to
me. 1 ItEFRAIN frojn expressing any personal opinion as to other prepara-
tions, .but point to the vast array of letters received, froip patrons, who,
HAVING TESTEb numerous advertised compounds,! etc., without
benefit, used my pomade, and FOUND IT TO BE EXACTLY AS REPRE-
SENTED—A TRUE HAIR GROWER. It is always prepared ip accordance
with the formula with which my name ,has becpme .famous,^ and which is
endorsed by NOTEb. ANALYTICAL EXPEBTS OF ENGLAND, GERMANY,
FRANCE ANb THE UNITED STATES. It can be shown by many letters
which I receive that, IN A FEW DAYS AFTER THE FIRST APPLICATION,
THE HAIR BEGINS TO GROW, AND CONTINUES UNTIL A HEALTHY,
STRONG, PERMANENT GROWTH IS MANIFEST.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff, baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well
the humiliation that they cause. There is no need, however, of such conditions. These troubles can
be quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
10,000 Free Trial Belies
My offer is a straightforward, honest proplositioh frdtn a business man tb seiisible men ahd women.
The merit of my TRUE HAIR GROWER is in the preparation itself, riot in the advertising. If you
wiil write tb me I wiil send Vou a TRIAL BOX of the JOHN CRAVEN BURLEIGH TRUE HAIR
GROWER. I make this offer because I want YOU tb know just what riiy True Hair Grower will do.
I was baid, it cured fne, and it has cured thousands of others. Package will be sent Securely sealed
in plain wrapper.
BALDNESS, DANDRUFF, ITCHING, ETC.
FREE TRIAL COUPON.
but out this Coupon, and send with 3 stamps, to cover postage, etc., tttid I will
immediately tiost a trial box of ruy True Hair Grower.
JOHN CRAVEN BtJRLEIGH, DEPT. 7, 192 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Ideal for
Australian
Roads.
CYCLES AND MOTOR CYCLES.
Victoria: MILLEDGE BROS., 264 Post Office Place, Melbourne.
New South Wales: BENNETT & BARKELL LTD., 130-132 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
South Australia: J. HILL & SONS, Representatives, 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
EYES & CROWLE, Local Distributors, 125 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
West Australia: THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth.
Queensland: THE HOWARD MOTOR & CYCLE CO., LTD., 376-8 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Tasmania: J. BILYARD, The Havelock Cycle and Motor Works, 141 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Last month, on leaving Brisbane, going
north, the Chinese crew of the ship Amec-
ham was mustered as usual by
officer ; and, although the
answered the roll call, he n
of them had aged strangely ej
arrival. Notwithstanding t'
uble protests that the cha
Enoggera water and the de
ence of picture shows, the
smelt a rat '
who. rolls of b.
land,
PagaDs haJ&ig
in China,
ceedings
two Hop
Common
Thcr'
quaint
an ene,
plad
put hi
had t
othqr
throngs,
present
said they
they objec
British p
stupids ca.
been com
try’s Def'
taxes;
that wa
when
Ihe
pa re .Vo do a
that) they d:
principle of
how, the wor
tempt the ki]
himself, but
other kid to
“Don Q.”:
happy famil
P,
bo
■A;
at
usn.
Denhaml having pushed his Liquor Bill •
second time through the Assembly, now find*
himself confronted by the Bung party in tin
is not onlv potent in tb*-
by virtue of direct repre-
so In the fact that two lead
ill barrack for Beer fBung
each their
opinions
mber
of the
the tliglilamj
rily remarked
is travels seen
k hrougb their
itn, to speak
to barb&r-
ie Highland
shall pro-
ijoua 8cot
to the
rm-laco
r , while
to th-
that he
bdivfted estate
vernment
g ham,
ad time
sold
ualV'fldvan-
that
hSTSmhroplr
m to beiiev>
aying (i pe.
Government
bam didn’t
the request,
hour "land
rt the feel-
supporters.
enslnntls champion
y certain.
Appel is the square peg in a round lady tennis plaver. Hnd daughter of Donald
hiSypr the round hole !n s. square face, or Mackintosh. M.L.A.. was married in Pit«*•
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prions in
England—
l/H. 2/9 A 4/6.
s
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Beet Medicine for
80UBHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
me cough Of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Aots like a ,charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
Business, Robbery, etc.
One of the matters that was favorably considered
at the Melbourne Premiers’ Conference was a request
for compulsory unionism. The trouble arose over
the frequency of fraudulent jewellery. The Retail
Jewellers’ Ass. pointed out that the institution of
an Australian hallmark Or Government stamp
would be little, if any, protection tb the buyer
against “brummy” stuff, especially where jewellery
is sold in public auction rooms and similar places,
where the maker cannot be traced, and no guarantee
is given. It explained further that it had a system
under which each manufacturer attached to every
article made by him not only the hallmark, but also
a mark which is registered against his name with
the Retail Jewellers’ Ass. Unless that is done no
associated retail firm will buy from him. The
result is, of course, that all such jewellery can be
traced, and, under the agreement, any manufac-
turer selling fraudulent or under-standard jewellery is
liable to a heavy penalty, which is paid into the
Ass.’s funds. Unfortunately, however, some retail
jewellers don’t belong to the Ass. Its idea is that
they should be compelled to be good unionists, by
having the system legalised throughout the six
States. The Ass.’s objective is eminently commend-
able, but it seems a roundabout way of getting there.
Meanwhile, until the long day arrives when the six
State Insects will all agree to do the proper thing
simultaneously, the Ass. might notify the public of
the names of its members, so that that deluded
entity might know just where to go when it wanted
15-carat trinkets, and not articles that are stamped
15 carat, but are really half lead and half dead and
part brass, with a nine-carat wash to deceive the
eye.
* * * *
“C.E.”: It is schemed to build the largest bridge in
the world across the Hudson, uniting New York and
New Jersey. Cost £8,250,000. Towers almost com-
parable to the Eiffel. Single Span, With accommoda-
tion for 400,000 passengers an hour. Eight tracks.
Two for subway traffic, two elevated, four for surface
trains: Highways for 10 vehicles abreast. Deck
200 ft. wide. Towers 550 ft. above water, 250 ft.
under water. Biggest ocean-liners can go underneath.
Total length, a mile and a half. Clearing the land
will cost £1,000,000.
* * * *
“Melb.”: G. Calder, of Victoria —just back from
a six-months’ tour of the Northern Territory—is
much impressed with the Victoria River district.
The Victoria is a beautiful river, navigable for 90
miles, of which 50 can be traversed by large boats
to the natural harbor of Blunder Bay, where there
is an anchorage of from 11 to 13 fathoms. The rest
is navigable by boats of 3 ft. draught. Meatworks at
Blunder Bay, with transit, would lead to enormous
business. The Vic. is the outlet for 47,000,000 acres
of country. Besides the cattle country there are
hundreds of thousands of acres of rich chocolate
flats that will grow anything.
“Without Reserve”: A Sydney police magistrate
has sentenced a Brummagem “auctioneer” to a
month’s remuneration in the calaboose for selling
under the hammer a brass chain after describing it
as 9ct. gold. The transaction took place at one of
the many Cheap Jack auction rooms which are an
unrighteous odor in the city. By some kink in the
law the crooks who run these joints can go to some
outlying suburb and obtain auctioneers’ licenses,
which entitle them to take down the highest bidder
all over the State. As the police are unable to
check the issue of these licenses a conviction can
only be obtained with the assistance of a duped
customer, and only rarely will such a one come up
to the scratch. Even when a conviction is obtained,
the magistrate is inclined to be lenient. The pur-
chaser who bids ss. 6d. for a “real English lever,
spring balance, jewelled in every hole, with solid
silver case,” deserves, so the Bench argues, to fall
in, while sympathy is seldom expressed for the lady
who buys an 18ct. gold ring or brooch set with real
pearls for 3s. 9d. In the conviction above referred
to the magistrate who surprised the “auctioneer”
with a month without the option, relieved his (and
the other fellow’s) mind by suspending the sentence
under the First Offenders Act, or First Time Caught
Act. Still, for him, auctioneering will in future be
a risky business.
Several Australian firms are pushing a “garden
fertiliser” in tablet form at the rate of 6d. per
ounce. This works out at eight hundred and ninety-
six pounds (£896) per ton. An analysis of the
tablets shows that, taking their chemical constitu-
ents at market rates, a liberal estimate of their
value would be £6 15s. per ton. The equivalent in
the form of a mixed complete fertiliser could be pur-
chased from any old manure merchant at £8 per
ton at the outside. It is this sort of thing that
indicates the reason why retailers retire early and
build large houses and do themselves well in other
respects. There is just one cheap and infallible
fertiliser. You slay the local grocer and bury him
under the rose-bush along with the midnight cat and
the early-morning rooster.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: Had a few words with a blind beggar
in our Melbourne suburb the other day. He was
bitterly abusive of “These here electric trams.”
“They’re ruinin’ our profession,” he said. I gathered
that his profession included all mendicants, and won-
dered how. He explained: “There was a time when
a copper amounted to nothing in this country. People
could do scarcely anything with it, so they dropped
it into the hat of the poor blind bloke on the corner,
and it was worth while being blind them days. But
now everybody wants pennies for the damn penny
sections, and things are so bad with me I’m think-
ing of filin’ me schedule. I’ve shifted my pitch
twice, hunted down by penny trams, and I expect I’ll
be getting under one, one of these dark nights, and
finishing it.” I would have given the poor fellow
a penny, but that would have left me with nothing
less than half a crown, and tram conductors are so
insolent if you offer them big money.
YE BALLADE OF BORROWED TINNE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Founde inscrybed oh ye anciente monumente of
Hoi-Man.
No broodynge bahde of misers we,
We boast noe thryftye Scottishe trait,
We live for joyous jaunte arid spree,
And love a landsbape redde and gaye;
So longe as Abfaih sdithe fabt “Naye”
Fob warnynge voyce we care noe piririe,
Let others fret Sbe wb but piayfc
Our goode olde Game Of Borrowed Tinhe.
Our jaw is siacke, but handb is free,
Our pockets ieake by nyghte and daye,
And forth we flyrige ryghte royaljie
Our golde in proude and godlike way;
We lende an ear to all who preye,
And fille the lande with supplyant dinne,.
And curse the lippe that breathes “Repaye,”
In thys goode Game of Borrowed Tinne.
To one alone we.bcnde ihe knee,
’Tis he who holdeth power and swaye
Where London’s golden treasures bee—
II e makes and mars us as he riiaye;
Althoughe it suits not with my laye
To chaunte of Semite nose and chinne,
How may I helpe it when for aye
We playe the Game of Borrowed Tinne.
Envoi.
Full ofte did our younge footsteps straye
Adowne tile primrdse patlibs bf Sitinb;
But one vice holdes us, weakc and graye —
This Gamble Ficrbe of Borrowed Tirine.
QUEENSLAND.
E. BORN.


Recognised Leading House for all
SMOKERS & SHAVERS’ REQUISITES
H
I
G
H
PIPES
C 3 cc < a ui
Pipes, made from finest quality old
briar root, with superior hand-cut Para vul-
canite mouthpieces. Heavy Silver mounts.
All shapes 3/- each (post free)
“Goudron,” finest quality
Natural Block
Meerschaum Pipes.
THE
SWEETEST
AND
COOLEST
SMOKING
PItODUCED.
PIPES EVER
Para Viileanite Mouthpieces, in case,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 21/-
each (post free).
Pressed Amber Mouthpieces,
12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 18/6, 25/- each
CIGARS
QUALITE
DE LUXE.
“Golden Key”
Cigars, of exquisite
aroma and infinite
charm.
The Standard
of Luxury
in Smoking.
mm.
Put up in cedar cabinets containing—
-25 cigars, 11/6; 50 cigars, 22/6
(post free).
Sample boxes of 5 cigars, 2/6 (post
free).
CIGARETTES.
Delightful, Fascinating:
“Three Witches”
Cigarettes, made from
selected, sun-ripe
Virginian Tobacco.
Finest quality.
5/- per 100 (post
free ).
JHREE WITCHtf
VIRGINIA
j &aaettes
JJtORRiS
8. Sons L t
TOBACCOS.
“Sunol,” highest grade Virginian, awarded 4
gold medals. Dark or Light. In plug or
cut, 6/- per lb. (post free).
“Lonus” Smoking Mixture, choicest tobaccos,
skilfully blended. Put up in 2oz. tins.
8/6 per lb. (post free).
Tobacco Pouches.
H
A
N
D
Y
i
sws
IM
£.V$
c
0
M
P
A
G
T
Wallet Pouch, Split Calf 2/0 each
„ ~ Real Morocco .. 3/6 »
i> >, Calf Crocodile .. 4/6 »
„ „ Gazelle 5/- ~
~ „ Velvet Calf .... 6/6 «
POCKET LIGHTERS.
The “Sunol” Pocket
Lighter. Every smoker
should have one. Simple
in construction. Nothing
to get out of order.
2/- each (post free).
'WWW
\
CIGAR and CIGARETTE
HOLDERS.
Amber Cigar Holders, silver rim,
in case, 6/6, 7/6 each.
Amber Cigar Holders, gold rim,
in case, 10/6, 11/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, silver
rim, in case 4/- 4/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, gold rim, in
case 7/6, 8/6 each.
SHAVING SETS.
=*l
Shaving Sets, comprising 1 renowned C. 8.8.
Razor, 1 C. 8.8. Razor Strop, 1 Badger Hair
Shaving Brush, and stick Williams’s Soap-
-18/ 6 (post free).
N
O
T
H
I
N
G
B
E
T
T
E
R
RAZORS
R
A
R
E
Q
U
A
L
I
T
Y
The “Hitite” Razor, pronounced by experts
to be absolutely perfect. None to
equal it. Kept in good order for 2 years,
free of charge—
Vulcanite Handle 7/6 each (post free).
Ivory Handle .• • • 10/6 each (post free).
SAFETY RAZORS.
The Celebrated “Auto Strop” Safety
Razor, complete with 12 blades and strop,
in leather case 22/6 (post free).
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney
Branches r CtTY, SU3URBS and NEWCASTLE.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout
AGENT9 FOR
Murray’s Engflish Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
i 3 ?
83;
/
'M F?v'ty
r uifi
* / ,
s k*
r^-
i. 'Wj
ft,\i/|'{
X\V
r"
j
ISS?*
I fc
f/\l
f
Single Shot 8 Repeating Rifles
are the most complete line made.
For hunting, sporting and target pur-
poses STEVENS are SUPREME for two
generations.
Ask your Dealer, and insist on STEVENS.
Latest Catalogs—full information, etc., sup-
plied on request to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for
■I. Stevens Arms & Tool Co.,
C.P.O.
Box 86,
ADELAIDE,
SOUTH
AUSTRALIA.
[4
MARK
Underwear
Made in
England
MARK
3dVbJ.
The “BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only
I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘ BIRD HARK ’ MERINO UNDERWEAR
■V BELL, & Co., Ltd.,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with aver 60 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkrrib
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
ok Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Ffoe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, is id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all tiie Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, ilius., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Msnk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (sinvple tests for minerals),
38 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune 'Belling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), prifce Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History «f the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, lls. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, 6s. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art on Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d
God and My Neighbor 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases dp Horses
is 3d. Theory of Vaßue, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d iProf. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, is 6d.
m
l
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
nnuonrc
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS P REE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young- and old,"but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjov married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers' Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
tburs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated,’’is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's
■Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
■posted. Ihe IV Hite Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
.and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
Ito-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
(Speaking Made Easj - , Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d-
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. SJV~Established 25 Tears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONIiY A SMALL, IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere lor the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Thicks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Sosos, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wipe’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s fid
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions op the
Bing, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Boyers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. 7kst Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Bead Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciikvassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bbnnarr Macfaddens Works, all at 5s posied.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. lOONkw
Becitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DA IT.


JIU-JITSU WHITE CHAMPION
OF THE WORLD.
9
1
y
VS
Mr. W. A. HILL
(from a photo.).
Mr. W. A. Hill, the only white man to hold a Mikado medal for
Championship honors in Jiu-Jitsu, the Japanese method of self-
defence, is universally acknowledged the Champion White Exponent
of this art, as well as one of the greatest athletes living.
Mr. Hill introduced Jiu-jitsu into the West Point Military College
in America, and has, amongst others, instructed ex-President Roose-
velt. and the South Australian Police. With all this experience
behind him Mr. Hill is an authority on athletics, and he says that
he has never found anything to train with so good as Rexona; he
uses it daily himself, and recommends it to all his pupils, and says
that, amongst the many thousand things he has tried in the
training-room, nothing has ever approached Rexona.
All Athletes will be interested in the letter of this Champion, who
writes as follows:
Rexona Proprietary Company, March 19, 1914.
SYDNEY.
Dear Sirs, —
I have been using Rexona, the Rapid Healer, for the past
eight months, and I want to tell you of how much value I
have found it. 1 first came across Rexona when it was
being used by the Masseur in the School, Mr. Noel, and was
so pleased with it I at once got a large-size tin, and have
used it constantly ever since. Taking on, as I do, all-
comers in Wrestling versus Jiu-Jitsu, etc., some thirty
times a day, naturally I meet with numerous kinds of acci-
dents, consisting of Scratches, Abrasions, Strains, Wrenches,
etc., all of which require immediate attention, to prevent
blood-poisoning or stiff muscles. I make it a rule every
night to apply Rexona to every injury, whether large or
small, and always use Rexona to have a good rub-down
when I have finished my day's work, to relieve the tired and
strained muscles. I think I have tried pretty well every
preparation on the market, and there is nothing I have met
that has given half the satisfaction that Rexona has given.
I have a very high opinion of Rexona, and will certainly
always recommend it to all my pupils, for I consider it just
the thing we need in my business.
Wishing Rexona the success it deserves,
I um, Yours truly,
(Sgd.) W. A. HILL,.
ALL ATHLETES use REXONA
No training- or dressing-room is complete without a pot of Rexona, the Rapid Healer. It
is invaluable as a rub-down for strained and tired muscles, for it quickly removes all stiffness and
tiredness resulting from over-exertion. Wrestlers, Boxers, Swimmers, Oarsmen, Cricketers and
Footballers have all added their praise of Rexona. Rexona is an excellent remedy for Cuts
Wounds, and other lacerations ; removes the discoloration and soreness from Bruises of all descriptions
and is in fact a reliable, quick-acting panacea for all possible accidents of the athletic field!
Rexona is sold everywhere in triangular pots at 1/G, or in pots holding nearly four times the
quantity, at 3/-
o
o
0
THE RAPID HEALER
s
12 TABLETS (5 Grains each)
O'*.
Stohrs
Kephaldol
QUICK CURE POR
WFLUEWZA. RHEUMATISM, LUMBACO.SOATKAPAJHFUI
HFJSTRUATIOH, FEVERS, ALL SEVERE NERVI PAIMS.
PRICE \ r G
INSTANTANEOUSLY DISPERSES
£ <
%
GUARANTEED
to be absolutely
HARMLESS
JV
PAIN
Guaranteed under
the Pure Food Law
ofN.S.W. S. 1259
fl
viV 'r'.V viV
THOSE who suffer from the torturing pains of RHEUMATISM,
NEURALGIA, SCIATICA, LUMBAGO, HEADACHE, IN-
FLUENZA, or any of the hundred other painful complaints
which attack mankind, will welcome the introduction of DR.
STOUR’S KEPHALDOL, the great pain-killer. Unlike many
other preparations, KEPHALDOL can be used with absolute safety,
33
,IT
o
«z?
without the slightest fear of its affecting
the heart’s action or setting up drug habits.
KEPHALDOL is not an experiment: it is
the accepted safe , speedy and sure remedy
for any of the complaints indicated above.
You have proof of this in the fact that
KEPHALDOL has earned the endorse-
ment of thousands of the cleverest doctors
at home and abroad, as well as that of the
famous Vienna Professors of Medicine.
So speedy is KEPHALDOL in action that
in very many cases it produces the desired
relief within a few minutes. That it can
he used with safety is shown by the follow-
ing report from Dr. Hans Eritsch. In re-
porting on a large number of cases, this
specialist says:—
“We never had occasion to observe alarming
symptoms in regard to heart collapse. I have,
however, observed a number of cases in which
Kephaldol effected an improvement of the heart
generally .”
That you can benefit positively by the use of KEPHALDOL is shown by
the fact that it has been given in many cases to patients whose constitutions could
not tolerate other remedies, in each case without ill after-effects. Remember,
KEPHALDOL has not failed to alleviate pain, and in no case has it injuriously
affected the patient.
Sold in Tubes by Chemists and Storekeepers. Prices ij6 and 3/6.
If you have any difficulty in obtaining a supply locally, send postal note or
stamps for value of tube desired, and same will be sent by return post prepaid.
KEPHALDOL CO,, 30 Ash Street, SYDNEY.
KL.4BOI
The Calm.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BROTHERS, have you observed the
calm?
Even the leaves of that symbolic
palm
That denotes peace, political and otherwise,
are scarcely stirred
By the faintest breath of controversy.. Not
a word
Is heard,
Excepting, here and there, the belated spout-
ing
Of some overcharged politician giving his
vocabulary an outing.
Brothers, what does this denote?
Is there no longer any competition for your
precious vote?
Nay, have you ever heard that alleged poli-
tical axiom over which the wily old
campaigners oft make goodly sport:
u The memory of the sap-lieaded elector is
short.”
Do you believe the allegation, brothers, or
do you doubt it?
And, anyhow, what are you going to do
about it?
* * -» *
Brothers, if ever you hope to know enough
to come in out of the wet,
Mark this: They are giving you *time to
forget!
What of those great National Questions,
Those fine, broad, far-seeing and statesman-
like suggestions,
Those urgent matters of life and death,
About which the politicians were so busy
talking a while ago that they had
hardly time to draw breath?
Are they dead?
Have they been fatally bashed on the head?
Have they been decently interred attended by
those solemn obsequies usually afforded
the remains of respectable and right-
thinking persons who impressed us in
this life with their top-hats?
Rats !
What of the settlement of the Northern
Terri-tory?
Is this an abandoned story?
What of our sea defence?
Has this question been cast hence
Into the outer darkness and the gloom
Of the tomb?
What of efficient Protection?
Is this now merely a matter for maundering
retrospection
Amongst senile and toothless old parties
whose minds ever dwell amongst the
dead and mouldy things of the past?
Oh, Blast, brothers ! BLAST !
Blast those rocks of apathy that bind your
sense of true citizenship!
Get a fresh grip.
Spring off your tail!
Give your political perspicaciousness a hail,
Revive it with a long, cool, refreshing drink,
And sit down and THINK....
* * * *
Do you imagine for one moment that old
‘Party Government’ is asleep?
Do you picture it sunk in slumbers deep?
If you do, brothers, you never made a bigger
mistake.
It is very, very wide awake.
That fine, old British institution, Party
Government, that was introduced into
this suffering country before the thistle
and previous to the rabbit,
And nursed so assiduously by politicians till
our acceptance of it has become a sinful
habit—
This pestiferous System, my brothers, never
sleeps;
Watch and ward it keeps.
And while, you are mooning, sporting,
. smoodging, drinking, dreaming,
It is engineering, planning, plotting, schem-
ing.
The Hon. Mr. Black is aiming at the poli-
. tical downfall of the Hon. Mr. White;
” tils the Hon. Mr. White is playing for
the shoving, of the Hon. Mr. Black and
his friends into the darkness and gloom
and solitude of political night.
But both, my brothers, both are toiling, with
the energy of a 200-h.p. triple cylinder
motor,
With the object of eventually and effectively
sprinkling a little salt upon the tail
of that dull but desirable bird, the free
and independent voter.
Brothers, do ye feel like taking tickets on
yourselves? Do ye feel flattered and
exalted ?
For, behold, ye are to he numbered among
the salted!
And, while these plots and plans are brew-
ing,
What, my brothers, are ye doing?
W hilst the wily politician is chewing
The cud of sinful reflection, with his eye
upon your votes,
Are you acting otherwise than after the
manner and fashion of unreflective
. goats ?
While you, brother, are canoodling with a
soft and fluffy person, in a Magyar
. hlouse, upon, the silvery beach,
Striving to convince her that you think she
is a. perfect peach ;
And while you, brother, are vainly endea-
voring, at the races,
To watch the impossible nags you back run
into places;
And while you, brother, are sinking the
long ’un, and the gin-squash, and the
soder-with-a-dash,
And recklessly doing in your cash ;
Sly old Party Government and its minions
Are busy manufacturing your political
opinions.
Yes, you, the intelligent electors, fine fellows
of quite unusual brain and brawn,
Are each of you regarded merely as a puppet,
a pawn
In the Game.
Shame!
* * * *
Attention, and I shall tell you exactly what
old Party Government is doing at this
.precise moment, if you wish.
He is busily engaged in the manufacture of
fish.
I ish,. brothers,, herrings, red herrings which
it is his intention to draw across the
track
Of great National Issues, because he is too
tired to deal with them, and work gives
him a pain in the back.
And in full cry, like a foolish and deluded
pack
Of unintelligent beagles, you will chase
wildly after the remains of that un-
pleasant, defunct and odorous fish.
And you will think you are doing it because
it is your own free wish.
You will open your mouths and howl, and
go and record your votes at the polls.
And fondly imagine that you are expressing
the earnest convictions of your inmost
and invincible souls.
I fear me, my brothers, that the tart, and
the prad, and the long beer, and the
midnight cray that bringeth early in-
digestio'n
Have far more attraction for you than any
great National Question.
Go to!
There is no fun and small profit in attempt-
ing to act Diogenes to such as you.
* * *
Brothers, I bid ye a sad farewell.
So many poor, misguided people, who
grabbed their opinions ready-made at
the last moment, have gone before us
that there is, nowadays, some difficulty
in keeping the lid on Hell.
Brothers, with that innate dignity that is
characteristic, I retire
To contemplate further insults, which I shall
deliver as occasion may require.
VICTORIA.
DEN.
Murty’s Straight Jacket.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MURTY BROWN had been searching
among the hills for a spare horse
when a, terrific thunderstorm came
on. He sought shelter from the pelting rain
and falling branches under a shelving rock.
But there was no shelter for his horse, and
a whirling branch, lobbing on its neck, gave
it such an all-fired start that the sudden
pull on the bridle threw Murty full-length
into the flooded grass. When he had got to
his feet and clawed the wet out of his eyes,
and picked up his hat and his pipe, the
animal was disappearing at a great bat down
a winding creek.
Murty remained under the rock for a
couple of hours, when the wind dropped and
the rain slackened to a drizzle. He did not
bother going after his steed, but struck a
beeline for home. In a few minutes he
was baulked by the creek, which was running
half a banker. The sun was going down, and
it seemed to be setting in for a wet night.
Recognising the futility of trying to find a
crossing before morning, he determined to
go back to the rock and camp.
Having a tomahawk in his belt, he stripped
a sheet of bark off a grey box, and leaned
it against the rock. Under it he kindled a
fire, and while it burned he gathered a supply
of the driest wood he could find, and stripped
another sheet of bark. By this time the
sap side of the first sheet was warm and
dry, which, suggested to Murty a healthier, if
harder, bed than the damp ground. So he
laid it down under the rock, propping the
other sheet up in its stead.
It was a few inches shorter than himself,
with a deep dent in the middle where it had
fitted over a bulge on the tree. This was
convenient, forming a most comfortable re-
ceptacle for his hip. In it, therefore, after
drying his clothes and piling on plenty of
wood, he stretched himself and went to sleep.
He woke at dawn to find himself in a
peculiar position. Try as he would he
couldn’t get up. How ever he wriggled and
twisted, he could not disengage himself from
the embrace of his bed. The heat of the
fire had caused the bark to curl tightly round
him, so that the edges considerably over-
lapped. His arms being straight down at
his sides, he could get no purchase anywhere
to wrench it apart. Anyone who has tried
to open a sheet of hark that has rolled up
in the sun will know what power was
wrapped around him.
Murty soon realised that he was trapped,
and that his only hope of escape was to get
to his feet. In a straight-jacket that reached
from his forehead to his shins, that was no
easy task. Not being an acrobat or a click
beetle, the only -way that occurred to him
was. to roll down to the creek and bring the
sloping bank to his assistance. He had the
use of his feet and his head, and the close
fit of the bulge round his hips helped him to
roll.
It was hard getting away, for there were
some half-burnt pieces of w T ood to bump over,
and the fire shelter to bowl down. Having
accomplished that, there were numerous logs,
stumps and trees to get round; there were
sharp blades of grass that sawed across his
eyes, and there was ever the thought of
snakes in his mind as he turned strenuously
over and over.
“If one gets in here,” he muttered, pausing
for breath, “or a rattled gohanna mistakes
me for a holler log, I’ll be fair flummoxed.”
Only when he struck a jumper’s nest did
he forget snakes and whiz over the landscape
till the trees spun around him.
“Awful sickly thing, rollin’,” he declared
as he brought up sharply against a root, and
lay for a moment gazing at the moving-pic-
ture show.
A few cautious turns brought him within
view of the creek bed. Luckily the flood
had run out. Edging round, he screwed and
zigzagged till he slid over a steep spot, and
landed at the bottom on his feet. He was
still leaning against the bank, but after
several hard shoves with his head, and some
masterful feats of balancing, he at last
attained the perpendicular. He was panting
and thirsty. Cool water gurgled at his feet
—hut he. couldn’t stoop.
Climbing the bank was a painful, anxious
undertaking. Inch by inch he felt his way,
tremblingly swaying on the inclines, breath-
lessly pausing on the levels, until, with a
final, staggering rush, he reached the top.
(Continued on next page.)


KIDNEY TROUBLE
IS SERIOUS.
IT used to be thought
that only urinary
troubles and back :
ache were to be traced
to the kidneys, but
modern science now
shows that many fatal
diseases have their
beginning ip irregu-
larities of these im-
portant organs.
For the kidneys are
the blood purifiers.
Every few minutes the
blood passes through
them to be purified.
But when the kid-
neys are weak and in-
flamed they cannot
keep up with their
great work, and so the
poisonous waste is left
'Every
Picture
Tells a
Story.”
SI
Eft
in the blood, and the whole body is being slowly poisoned.
Yon soon feel languid, dizzy and worn out. You cannot
sleep—cannot eat —you grow irritable and miserable.
Puffy circles come under the eyes—the ankles swell—the
muscles and joints are stiff and rheumatic. There are urinary
disorders, and you have to get up many times during. the
night. Your back is weak and aching —you may have sciatic
pains and lumbago.
If you have ANY of the above symptoms give your over-
worked kidneys help AT ONCK in Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, of which Sydney men and women speak so highly.
INFLAMMATION OF THE KIDNEYS.
A Great Sufferer Cured.
Mr. George Woodroffe, 10 Roseby Street, Drummoyne, Sydney, writes
“I have derived very great benefit from the use of Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. Seventeen years ago a cold settled on my kidneys, and eventually
inflammation of the kidneys and bladder set in, and up to the time of taking
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills some little time ago I have suffered terribly
ever since. I have been treated by some of the cleverest and best-known
Sydney doctors. I was fbr seventeen and a half weeks in the Sydney
Hospital. I was also two months in the Coast Hospital, where I had one
kidney removed. Though the various treatments eased me for a time I
was not cured, and would soon relapse i_to ray former ill-health. I also
tried patent medicines, advertised to cure kidney complaint, but they did
not even give me temporary relief. My brother was always worrying me to
try Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, if I only took one bottle. To please
him I got them, and before I had finished the bottle I felt much better, m
fact, I had not felt so well for years; the Pills were working wonders for me.
I continued taking them, and am now perfectly cured of every symptom ol
kidney trouble.”
Mr. Woodroffe confirms the above nine years laterMy cure has
lasted, for I am still free of the terrible torture of kidney and bladder
trouble. If ever I feel the slightest pain near my kidneys Intake a few doses
of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and they never fail to relieve me at once.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers
at 2s. 9d. per bottle (six bottles 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of
price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
I
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
CURES BY DOAN’S OINTMENT
PILES.
SIX YEARS CURED.
Mrs. C. King, 47 Marlborough Street,
Surry Hills, says: “About three years
ago I bad a very severe attack of piles,
and suffered intense agony. I used a
great number of pile remedies, but they
were useless in my case. I heard of a
cure effected by Doan’s Ointment, and
decided to give it a trial. The soothing
and healing effects of this Ointment are
marvellous. A few applications gave me
ease, and a short treatment quite cured
me, and I have not been troubled with
piles since. I think the world of Doan’s
Ointment, and advise all sufferers to give
it a trial.”
Three years later Mrs. King says: I
am pleased to bring the above statement
up-to-date by telling you I am still free
of piles, and have been ever since Doan’s
Ointment cured me nearly six years ago.
My lasting cure proves that this remedy
cures to stay cured.”
ECZEMA.
TWO YEARS CURED.
Mrs. J. Thompson, 3 Onslow Street,
Granville, says: “For a long time I was
tortured with eczema. The pain and irri-
tation of this ailment are dreadful, the
days are miserable, and the nights sleep-
less. I tried all sorts of remedies, but
nothing did me any good. I also con-
sulted a doctor, bu_t his treatment did
not benefit me. My son induced me to
get a pot of Doan’s Ointment, and I am
glad I did, for after a few applications I
noticed an improvement. I continued the
treatment, and after using two pots I
was completely cured. Doan’s Ointment
is wonderful, and I never miss an oppor-
tunity of praising it. Eczema is a ter-
rible complaint, and other sufferers will
be pleased to know of a sure cure.”
Two years later, Mrs. Thompson says:
“I have had no return of eczema since
Doan’s Ointment cured me two years ago,
so I reckon I am cured for good.”
Doan's Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Stores at
2/9 per pot, or posted free by Foster- McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney .
Before him was a flat, at the end of
wfeich, g mile away, stood a selector's hoqse.
Hagerly he set out for it. His steps were
qistressipgly abbreviated. The knee action
being limited, his motion was more of a
shuffle than a walk. His hat, which he had
used for a pillow, was jammed behind the
back of his neck, and his ruffled mop was
smothered with leaves, twigs, grass and
spiders’ webs. His eyes just showed above
the edge of the bark. He resembled nothing
so much as an animated bottle tree with the
top cut off.
Near the house he heaved forcibly through
a rickety gate—and nearly fell over. The
noise awoke the dogs, whose barking in
turn attracted a woman who had been.chop-
ping wood, and a girl who was standing by
with a dish under her arm. They grasped
each other, and pointed simultaneously at
the strange thing approaching them. Murty
chuckled at their alarm. He was feeling a
lot better now.
The dogs, with raised bristles, kept up
an excited barking and growling, running
l'ound him and smelling at him between
whiles. ■ 1 ' 1 1
■ x “Lay down, you mongrels!” rasped Murty,
at the same time jumping and dancing to
frighten them. At this strange conduct the
women fled into the house and slamnled the
door. Murty chuckled again. How they
would laugh presently ‘ when they came to
strip the bark off him ! Ilq could smell
bacon and eggs, and smacked his lips as he
anticipated the motherly invitation, “Sit ip,
my poor man, and have some breakfast-”
He shuffled up to the step.
“It’s all right, missus; you needn’t be
afraid,” he said, soothingly. The engulfing
bark gave to his voice a deep, muffled sound,
and at the same time partly smothered his
words.
“Clear out!” came the answer through
the keyhole.
“I’m in a tight fix, ma’am,” said Murty,
more seriously. “Open th’ door, an’ you’ll
see for yourself. I’m not a burglar, or an
ogre”
The door was opened cautiously, and the
woman, stepping from behind it, thrust a
revolver at the astonished supplicant.
“Now, then, make tracks, quick!”.
“Hold on!” gasped Murty, backing away.
“There’s nothing to get excited about,
ma’am. Can’t you see”
“Are you goin’ to get?” The revolver was
pointed more menacingly.
“By cripes! You’re a nice sort, you are !”
said Murty, rebelliously. “Do you think
I’m an armored robber, or an escaped lun-
atic? Haven’t you got eyes?”
She stepped out from the door, a fright-
ened but determined look on her face. “Be
off, now ! Be off, or I’ll shoot!”
Chagrined and despairing.. Murty shuffled
away without further argument.
“Th’ woman’s a fool!” he snorted as he
looked back savagely from the gate. “Th’
two ends an’ th’ middle of a double-barrelled
idiot.”
He went on with quick steps and a fierce
look in his eyes.
Out of sight of the house he leaned against
a tree to rest. In a little while a black-
fellow and his gin came mooching along,
looking for ’possums and sugarbags. Murty
was delighted to see them. He couldn’t have
been more pleased if they had been his
brother and sister.
He moved away from the tree, and just
then Binghi’s wandering eye lit on him. He
stopped short with a startled ejaculation, and
bending forward stared with rounded, bulg-
ing eyes as the apparition drew towards him.
But he didn’t wait to discover what it was.
In a moment he was a flying study in per-
spective, and the old gin a whirlwind of legs
and skirts behind him.
Murty resumed his weary way, embittered
and disgusted.
He was in a populous district. There
were plenty of houses at no great distance
from the track he was following, but fences
blocked him from getting to them. He might
have fared better with the people he met had
his face been in view. As it was, he looked
more like a walking stump than a human
being.
He met several persons in the course of
the next hour. One was a young man who
came cantering along the track, sitting
loosely in the saddle, and singing at the
top of his voice. The horse was a young one,
and it was close up when it spied the awful
object in front. It propped dead, and with
a snort leaped sharply aside, shooting the
rider out of his seat like a shot from a
catapult. The victim scrambled quickly
to his feet, grabbed his hat and dashed away
through the bush as though he had no
thought of anything but the catching of his
bolting horse.
Murty went on, too tired and famished to
smile at the fun he was having.
At the edge of a bit of brush he encoun-
tered a stout old lady carrying a basket.
“O goodness!” she cried, dropping the
basket as her hands flew involuntarily up-
wards.
Before he could offer an apology she had
gathered up her skirts and fled.
“All tli’ darn fools alive to be livin’
hereabouts,” Murty remarked sourly.
He went on, meditating seriously.
Ascending a gentle rise, he descried three
small boys trying to pelt down a peewit’s
nest. So intent were they on this object
that he had shuffled to within a few paces
of them before he was discovered.
“Oo! Bluey, look!” shrieked a freckled-
faced, ginger-headed urchin, which focussed
all eyes searchingly, curiously on the ap-
proaching mystery.
“Oh, strike!” cried Bluey. “What is it?”
“It’s only a man, my boy,” said Murty,
anxiously. He was afraid they were going
to run away. “A man what’s ’ad a mis-
fortune, an’ will reward you handsome if
you help him”
“I know, Ginger!” the smallest boy broke
in. “It’s a bunyip!”
“ ’Tain’t a bunyip,” said Ginger, edging
away. “Look at.his boots.”
“Ah, you’re th’ boy that’s got sense,” said
Murty, in his most ingratiating manner, and
edging after him. “You’re an observant lad,
one as is destined to come to n great end.
If everybody was as cool an’ sensible as you,
I might ’ave been out o’ thig predicament
long ago.”
“He’s a loony, that’s what he is,” Ginger
asserted at this juncture.
“Let’s pelt him}” cried the smallest boy,
with enthusiasm.
“Hooroo!” seconded Bluer, ecstatically
waving his arms.
“Do you want to earn five bob?” Murty
inquired quickly, and in a much louder voice.
But the boys had darted after sticks. Bluey
aimed the first, which struck over Murty’s
chest with a loud, hollow sound. Vociferous
applause greeted him. Ginger and the small-
est boy followed suit, and as each stick rat-
tled against Murty’s casement his tormen-
tors yelled and danced with delight. The
noise the sticks made, and the way they
bounced was great sport. Murty lost his
temper, and, making a rush at the smallest
boy, lost his balance and fell like a log. The
boys cheered tumultuously. When they saw
he couldn’t get up again their joy was
supreme. They looked down on his case-
ment from the top, and they looked up at it
from the bottom, what time Murty was
pleading and threatening by turns.
“See here, sonny,” he said, addressing
Bluey, “if you an’ your mates ’ill pull this
fakus apart so I can get out, I’ll give you
five bob.”
■ “Give us it now,” Bluey stipulated* hold-
ing out his hand.
“I can’t get me hand into me pocket till
I get out,” Murty returned.
“Yah! he ain’t g'ot five bob !” cried Bluey,
derisively.
“He’s got rats, that’s what he’s got,”
Ginger declared. “If he ain’t what did he
get in there for?”
“Let’s roll him down the hill,” suggested
the smallest boy, \yho seemed to' be the
genius of the family.
The suggestion was greeted with joyful
exclamations, which epcouragefl him to shove
against the bulge.
“You mind what you’re at, young fellow !”
Murty growled at him, grinding his teeth.
“Yah!” Bluey shouted defiantly. “Come
on, Ginger!”
Murty cast a horrified glance down the
steep slope.
“Stead-y now!” he gasped as they laid
hands on him. “ ’T’ill kill me, an’ you’ll
be hung, th’ whole bilin’ lot of yer. D’yer
hear? I’ll die on th’ way. .. .I’m dying now.
... .D—- yer !”
“Now then, over!” cried Bluey, totally
ignoring the harrowing prospect.
“Oh, you darlin’s!” hissed Murty, as he
was turned face upwards.
With the next move he shut up suddenly.
It was a long-distance roll, but it gave.
Murty the liveliest minute he had ever
known. Gaining momentum with every revo-
lution, bumping and bouncing, he outpaced
his yelling persecutors with ease.
At the bottom he was conscious of a
bigger bump than usual, followed by a tre-
mendous clatter, and a frantic roar as of
someone being knocked down and run over;
then a violent wrench that threw him clean
out of his casing and over the bank of a
deep gully.
At the bottom, hidden in long grass, he
lay in a dazed condition for several minutes.
The clatter above continued for a little
while, and was succeeded by a stream of
vituperation poured • forth in a loud voice
and with much feeling. Murty listened
more eagerly as he recovered from his dizzi-
ness, but the sounds of tramping feet seemed
to be receding, and the angry voice dying
away in the distance. He sat up with a
jerk.
“Was anybody killed?” he asked; and
then he saw that he was alone in the bot-
tom of the gully. He was bruised and sore
from head to foot, and still feeling sick.
“Wonder what happened?” he mused, as
he got slowly to his feet.
He crept up the bank and peeped over.
Nearest to him, lying under the point of a
dead limb, and split in two, was the sheet
that had enveloped him. The flap had
caught on the limb, and with the pace he
had on it had torn open and-he had been
forcibly ejected. That much was plain.
Beyond was a demolished bark gunyali, a
temporary structure that he had partly
crashed through and partly bowled over.
That also was plain.
On the top of the hill, waving his arms
and still talking, was an angry old man
whom he recognised as a charcoal burner he
had seen the day before. The boys had fled
in terror before him. It was all plain.
“Them little cherubs can have the credit
of it all,” he decided, brightening at the
idea. Then the billycan at the fire caught
his eye.
“You ain’t in a good humor for receivin’
visitors, Charcoal,” he mused; “but, maybe
if a sympathetic traveller called d’rectly,
you wouldn’t forget he had a mouth on him.
Long step home yet, an’ I’m starving.”
Reaching for his hat, he crept back and
picked his way dbwn the gully to a secluded
pool, where he attended most carefully to
liis toilet.
A little later he sauntered up to the camp
of the charcoal burner, who was then busily
sorting out his personal property from the
ruins of his residence.
“Good day, mate,” said Murty.
“Good-day!” sulkily.
“Had a collapse?”
Charcoal straightened up and wiped some
blood off his face.
“I was havin’ a nap in th’ caboose ’ere,”
he said with an injured air, “when three
lovely imps o’ boys rolls that there durned
fakus down on to th’ camp an’ flattens it
out on top o’ me.”
“That sheet o’ bark?” questioned Murty,
with well-feigned surprise.
“They ’ad a big stone in give it
weight an’ make it go faster, I s’pose,”
Charcoal explained. “Th’ stone’s in th’
gully somewhere, as I see the track of it
down th’ bank.”
“Th’ scamps!” said Murty, sympathetic-
ally. “Might a ’urt yer!”
“’Urt me!” Charcoal snorted. “Might a
stoo.med me out.”
“if I was you I’d go an’ see their
fathers,” said Murty, feelingly.
■ “I’m goin’ to,” Charcoal answered, nod-
ding his head by way of emphasis. “Straight
away as soon’t'l’ve fixed up ’ere.”
Murty looked hungrily at the tucker that
was scattered among the wreck.
“What’s about th’ time?” he asked,
glancing at the sun.
“About two o’clock,” was the reply.
“I’m lookin’ for a horse that got away
from me; been lookin’ since daylight,”
Murty volunteered.
“Had no dinner yet?” Charcoal inquired
hospitably.
“No—not yet.”
“Better sit down an’ have some,” said
Charcoal; and Murty sat down willingly.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.


Us W estinghcmse
Oil Engine
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
•
j&M
V
;'
Y
m
From 7 to 40 H.P.
No Carburetter or Vaporiser.
No Ignition Apparatus.
Makes the following claims upon
your attention—
1 — it uses ch®p lamp oil (such as kero-
sene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the
cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
&—lt is very simple in construction, there
being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators
and centrifugal pumps may be coupled
direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply
of fuel and lubricant being all the
attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
The Record of the
Stirling Boiler
SHOWS—
HIGHEST evaporation per sq. ft. of heating surface.
HIGHEST efficiency.
LOWEST coal costs. LOWEST maintenance costs.
40 Municipal undertakings use STIRLING BOILERS. Average
tube renewals -295 tubes per boiler per annum. Average
efficiency of 17 boiler tests in electricity stations was 79 %.
REPEAT ORDERS RECEIVED FROM 220 SATISFIED USERS.
The Austral Engineering Supply Go.
limited,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
To make BIRD’S Custard so
pure, we have rejected all the
short cuts to Custard making,
and all lower priced and inferior
ingredients. Hence its perfect
creaminess and nutriment.
Remember these facts if
you are offered a substitute for
Birds-
the Pure Custard.
Try also BIRD'S Crystal JELLY—It dissolves instantly.
POST FREE. A Vat cable Rf.cim*
Book containing 118 Recipes for novel and
delightful dishes sent, on receipt of address,
W. C. Douglass, 53, Liverpool Street, Sydney.
Bird’s Costard is
sold in Pkts, Boxes,
and large Tins.
cx6os.w«
-s£S
j^WfHWKPrwr.-^
ALFRED BIRD’S
CUSTARD POWDER,
tv cttiK tit lahta Cwirfi tuuti «*
Jg *■»•-.»»' «•*■ «0*T MW «*0U*iA
STAHOIBOjFtAVOR,
tMNflloM fw Um.-'V M.*4M M *«• v* •
S«*»W On ■■■
gfolVONSWUf lii 8IMIHGHHM.
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d
IT IS A WISE PRECAUTION
to take the greatest care of your health. In order to do this
effectually it is necessary from time to time to take a few doses
of the right medicine—one that will regulate and tone up the
digestive system. There ought to be no difficulty in deciding
what that is. The verdict in favour of Beecham’s Pills is
overwhelming. Many people find it an excellent plan
TO TAKE
them periodically. They are the remedy, par excellence, for
cleansing the system from impurities and ensuring a correct and
regular action of the important organs of digestion, assimilation,
and execretion. Vigour of body and mind, are the portion only
of the healthy. Remember, then, that health may be established
and maintained by the use of that old and well-tried remedy—
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. Mc)jVILLIAM, Manager.
•PHONE—City 7091.
Sawmillers, Joiners and
Cabinet Makers
If You require
SAWMILL AND WOODWORKING
MACHINES, communicate direct with
the MANUFACTURERS.
We can give you expert advice. The
turers’ prices will suit you. Cash or easy terms.
Catalogue and all information free. We carry
the largest stock of Woodworking Machines in
Australasia. Call at our stand at the forthcom-
ing Royal Easter Show.
KIRCHNER <SL CO.
32 Market Street, Sydney.
iii[int''jn^iK‘nninniiinnimiHiniiiiniriiftwmiißi
VARIETY WOOD WORKER.
Metz-“22,” £l9O
The Simple Car for the Country.
These Serviceable Cars are at Work all over N.S.W.
If you require a Simple, Economical, Reliable and Moderately-priced Car it will
pay you to investigate the METZ. Friction Drive (eliminating complicated
gear wheels), 22 H.P., 4 cyl. Bosch Ignition, clearance, 45m. p. hour,
33m. p. gallon.
Brown 8 Hellicar Ltd.,
375 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
The British-built
Waver ley,
From £350 to £375
Nett.
99
Underwear.
Once you have worn Jason
Underwear you will never go back to the old kind.
THE beautiful all Australasian-wool fabric of
Jason, with its silky softness, makes it ideal
wear for all seasons. It is the most comfortable and
the most healthy—keeping the body at an even tem-
perature in extremes of weather. And Jason is guar-
anteed absolutely unshrinkable—any garment that
shrinks will be replaced free of all cost. Jason costs
no more tnan you usually pay : in fact the hi«her-
grade garments are much more economical than
any other make.
Jason Underwear is made in all style* and
prices for men, ladies, and children. Infants'
Pure White W.earin I ght and medium weights.
Jason J crseys for children wear splendidly.
If your dealer does not S‘ock Jason insis i
upon his getting it tor you.
In case of difficulty, write—
Jason Underwear Co , Leicester, England. Aa43
11
tar
N
ft* HCJh
. .
GOLDFIELDS DIAMOND DRILLING CO.Pty.Ltd.
331 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works—Sturt St., S. Melbourne.
%
&
VS\
S
m
—’< r
mi
RUMELY TRACTOR.
Works continuously on CHEAPEST Kerosene
BORING CONTRACTORS
and MANUFACTURERS.
Armstrong Traction and All-Steel Boring
Machines, Tools and Casing in stock.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines, Wind-
mills, Pumps, Silos, Hay Presses,
Wagons, etc., etc.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
FRICTION HOISTS.
SPECIALLY SUITED for BUILDERS' USE.
SIZE IN STOCK: scwt. lift at 200 ft. per minute.
scwt. lift at 300 ft. per minute.
lOcwt. lift at 175 ft. per minute.
Fitted with Motors for Use on any Supply Voltage or System. MODERATE PRICES.
OiteßllteS*#
OF AUSTRALIA Ltd*.
SYDNEY: Wynyard Lane.
MELBOURNE: 61 William Street.
BRISBANE: Corner Saul & Roma Streets.
3520 City.
5117 City.
3676 Central.
Hardie’s Genuine
Used In place of-Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE. ROT, HEAT, ACID 8 ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES NARPIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
and at Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
For Men
' ::
APPS
r*.vv*3
For Women
Every
Engineer
Knows
That to run a Steam Plant Economically
you must have Dry Steam. The only
efficient method to adopt to ensure your
steam being free from water is to lead
the water with the steam to a proper
collector, and discharge it through a
Steam Trap. But you must have a Trap
that is Reliable and does not Leak.
THE “SENTINEL”
High Pressure STEAM TRAP
Is Tested to 2501 b. Pressure, and is guaranteed
to remain tight even after much use.
LET US SEND YOU PARTICULARS.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Values, Pumps, Pluming,
Patent “Nelyambo” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fiuming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work.
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
fs
“A Fan for
Every Service”
BUFFALO BLOWERS 8 EXHAUSTERS.
The popularity of the “ Buffalo ” is largely due to the growing' recog-
nition of the numerous and varied applications in which they are useful.
For fIODERN SHOP AND FACTORY EQUIPMENT they are particularly adapted for—
BLOWlNG—Supplying blast for Cupolas, Forges, Furnaces, Forced Draft, etc.
VENTILATING AND COOLING Shops, Factories, Engine Rooms, Workshops, Laundries, etc.
EXHAUSTING Steam, Smoke, Gas, Fumes, etc.; Shavings and Refuse from Woodworking Plants; and
Dust from Abrasive and Buffing Wheels.
Estimates for SPECIAL HEATING AND DRYING PLANTS.
"Write for Full Descriptive Catalogue*
8
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney.
RACRAROCR
The Safest, Most Convenient & Most Economical High Explosive
will, owing to its expansive force—weight for weight—throw out more rock than any other explosive.
The Governments of the various Australian States and New Zealand have been and are large users of Rackarock, the N.S.W.
Railways alone having used in one year nearly 125 tons in deviation and duplication work.
We can supply in any size of cartridge or packing.
PROPRIETORS AND MANUFACTURERS—
•9
Li HiM
SYDNEY and
MELBOURNE,
