

the Whisky of Sterling Value
R. C3r. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent, Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
ftining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
IE
ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
M-5-W- MONT DE PIETE D &I C? L.IR
Head Office: 74 CASTEEREAQH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And at Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
9 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W,
15-217 Swanston Street,
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
EUSTACE BENNETT, Canaral Manager.
re
iiaS:
81.8
HOBART.
Radley’s Orient fjotel.
RICHARDSON’S
Wine # Spirit
Stores,
68 Market St.,
SYDNEY.
158 Russell St.,
MELBOURNE.
B
Bottle, Case or Gallon at Wholesale Price. [2
QMMMJ
wHDunin
“PINEAPPLE” HAMS & BAGON
7
ANTI BLOWPIPE
SAFES
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
nrriizlKMiifci
_ unkeX
a
ror INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
JyUS
The Best for Rough Roads.
The impregnated rubber-cord foundation of these tyres enables
them to resist moisture, strain and friction. Catalogue free.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne.
s
Royal
Dutch
I
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
m
xrnsrm
Panel the Rooms of
your Home with
AMIWUD is a new product that- offers the homebuilder a
more desirable interior finish than plaster—a more sensible
finish than wall paper—a wall that is cheaper than hard-
wood, but one that looks exactly like it. Of AMIWUD we’d
gladly send you samples in Golden Oak, Jenisero, Weathered
Oak and Mahogany.
w
e
1
u
0
□
3
r-^
5-1
/ ' >. < ' * ' ’ t . y : ' 4 .
House, Sydney
/ D. S. EVANS, \
V Australasian Manager/*
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
B.L
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
s .v. o
QUEEN OF STATES
CHOICE u|| |||
Bacon anc *JWN^
Telegraphic Address—B A CON, Murarrie, Queensland
vds NoaniH
The efficacy of HELIDON SPA lies in its
solvent power and cleansing properties.
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
Phillip Sts, Sydney, and fledferw,
The Bulletin
VoL 35.—N0. 1815.]
[Thursday, November 26, 1914.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as d Newspaper.


ESPIONAGE
THE SECRETS OF THE
GERMAN WAR OFFICE.
By DR. ARMGAARD KARL GRAVES, Secret Agent.
Hie author was for 12 years a successful spy in Germany’s service. He was convicted of espionage
in England, and sentenced to Barlinny Prison. But, through State influence, he was released, and is now
an English Secret Agent. He now reveals for the first time the operations of the German Spy System.
Price, 2/6; posted, 2/7.
GEORGE ROBERTSON S CO. PROP’T’Y LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROUND TABLE, No. XVI.
SPECIAL WAR NUMBER.
Series of articles outlining origins of the present
war, including “Germany and the Prussian Spirit”
and a transcript of Sir Ed. Grey’s speech of Aug. 3.
2/® per-'-eopy t—lo/* per annum.
McMILLAN & CO., 109 Russell Street, Melbourne,
or any bookseller.
The Mouth is the Gateway
for the Entrance of Disease
Professor Miller has proved conclusively that
no fewer than 38 different infections may be
traced with more or less directness to the
human mouth, as a focal or starting: point.
The mouth being the gateway for the entrance
of disease, therefore it is here that the fight
must begin to keep the enemy out.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Ger-
micide and Antiseptic known, being destructive
to all forms of bacterial life. They keep the
mouth in a sweet, healthy condition.
A, The Larynx or
* organ of voice.
B, The Trachea or
windpipe.
à
C. The Bronchial
tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
I). A Lobe of one
of the lungs.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOD JUJUBES
Contain no Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
SUITED FOR OLD AND YOUNG.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
Sold everywhere, Chemists, Grocers, Store-
keepers, in tins, price 1/6.
The Medical Press and Circular says.—
“These Jujubes should be of special service to
Lecturers, Public Singers and Speakers, and,
indeed, to all who are called upon to use their
voices frequently for prolonged periods.” [4
The Red Page
Teodor Jozef Konrad
Korzeniowski
This gentleman, better known as Joseph
Conrad, is the subject of an interesting, if
infertile, study by Richard Curie, in Kegan
Paul’s “Studies of Living Writers” (7s. 6d.).
Curie is a corsair critic, flying many flags.
His biography is merely a bundle of per-
sonal opinions, many of them stimulating
and provocative; he flits about his subject,
illuminating it but in fitful flashes; yet by
these irregular methods he contrives to give
us a valid impression of the personality and
the genius of this great writer. Curie’s book
will be read with delight by all Conrad
worshippers; but Curie, though he valiantly
tries, does not persuade the literary public
to become his worshippers. As a biography
this work is a failure: read as an enthusi-
astic appreciation of Conrad by a sympa-
thetic admirer it will pass.
After all, all biographies are wrong. The
biographer must have a method: he must
treat his subject as a concrete, rounded
object, capable of being contained within
the covers of a book. He must analyse his
subject’s development, must explain him to
his public, must present him as the logical
result of certain forces. This method ends,
perhaps unconsciously, but certainly inevit-
ably, in the biographer imputing to his sub-
ject a conscious effort to realise himself in
a certain literary way. The falsity of this
assumption is emphasised when the subject
is a man of genius. For genius is not con-
scious, is not a rounded entity, is not capable
of an exact analysis. (Nor, for that matter,
is the ordinary man. There is in all of us
something that escapes even the most bril-
liant of biographers. He can see us only
from the outside.) What the competent
biographer presents is his rounded concep-
tion of something that triumphantly evades
every formula. Thus Curie reads into Con-
rad’s literary development intention and
conscious desires that were never there. The
impulses prompting the development of a
genius are always obscure, especially obscure
to the genius himself. How then shall a
biographer put his finger on these impulses?
And how can he prove that he has touched
the right button? A genius alters, develops
in certain ways, because he is a genius. He
changes, simply because he is changed. His
style alters, because it is altered for him —
he does not know why. A genius—or a
grocer—does what he is compelled to do —
not what he desires to do. There is a quality
in a grocer—or a genius—that escapes the
most delicate analysis; he flows over beyond
the bounds of the most exact logic; he hap-
pens tu be alive.
Let’s get back to Conrad —Curie’s Conrad.
Curie finds his explanation of the fact that
certain people don’t like Conrad in “his
passionately romantic, melancholy and ironic
mind”; and in the fact that to read Conrad
calls for exertion —for, being imaginative,
he requires in his readers a corresponding
and increasing effort of imagination. “He
actually excites the optic nerve.” Conrad’s
genius is foreign to even the most advanced
English tradition.
He is not concerned with righting the
world and he is not sparkling. He is neither
a novelist of himself like Chesterton, nor a
novelist of types like Meredith. He is the
novelist of real people.... He is aloof not
only in his style but in his whole manner
and range of subject. He does not give us
the warm, comfortable feeling of an Arnold
Bennett. Conrad is as restless as the sea
... .Again, Conrad is not preoccupied solely
with the emotion of 10ve.... A certain in-
directness in his manner of narration must
explain a good deal, and a monotonous rich-
ness of language in his earlier work has cer-
tainly repelled many... .About all Conrad’s
work there is a kind of aristocratic flavor
which has nothing directly to do with the
work itself. _ Just consider the difference
between his view of the East and Kipling’s
view. There is something sublime about one
and something cockney about the other.”
Maybe ; but Curie does not mention what
is probably the chief cause of Conrad’s in-
complete popularity: his maleness. Conrad
is a man’s writer —and the majority of
readers of fiction are females. And the
authors of “best-sellers” are female, either
by sex or by disposition.
In Curie’s enthusiastic opinion the greatest
of Conrad’s works is Nostromo.
When we realise that he evolved this whole
panorama, so complete and multifold, from
the descriptions in an old book of his child-
hood and from two flying visits to South
American ports—visits extending, perhaps,
to twelve hours in all —we feel how bound-
less are the limits of imagination. For
Costaguana lives before us in the very poetry
of a marvellous realism I call Nostromo
one of the most tremendous books I have
ever read. It is the great example of Conrads’,
vast capacity for building up the very illu-
sion of reality out of practically nothing.
J*
We must thank Curie, in the course of
this rambling appreciation, for putting his
finger on a fundamental principle of Con-
rad’s art. “However important a character
of Conrad’s may be, that character is, never-
theless, subordinate to the unity of the book
.... Whoever thinks of Dickens’ principle
figures in relation to the plot? The truth
is, that the unity of the novel is ah idea that
has been, with the exception of Henry James
and George Moore (writers much under
Continental influence), upheld by few Eng-
lish-speaking novelists before Conrad.”
Curie comes near to an explanation of
Conrad when he notes that all his men are
men. “The atmosphere of masculinity per-
vades Conrad’s men convincingly.” And
Curie’s analysis of Conrad’s style, except
when the biographer imputes deliberate in-
tention to what has been evidently an un-
conscious development of technique, is worth
reading. “His treatment of our tongue is
one of the most exciting adventures in the
long annals of English literature His
music is not the mere enlargement of older
English strains, it is a new music altogether
—the romantic, mysterious and thrilling
music of another race.... a monotonous and
golden rhythm, a sonorous ebb and flow. He
is a magician in the use of those dangerous
things—adjectives.” And Curie has nntly
noted the steady growth in the style of
Conrad from the exuberance and almost
lusciousness of his early books to the in-
finitely more subtle and perfectly controlled
prose of his later work.
Conrad’s method of narrating a story
through the mouths of several observers has
been an annoyance to many a reader. Why
can’t the man tell his story straight out?
Curie points out that, apparently misleading,
this is, in reality, the very epitome of every-
day experience. Any affair of complexity
that comes under one’s notice generally im-
presses itself on one under a variety of shift-
ing lights—affected, as it must be, by the
particular media of transmission. Just as
in life, the sum total impression of an event
is ordered and logical, and yet may be derived
in an inverted, piecemeal and scrappy form,
so it is in Conrad’s books. “This method of
Conrad’s is actually a cunning touch of vivid
realism.” Yes, but the true critical attitude
to take is this: Conrad has a right to choose
his method; and if this method achieves the
total effect that he is aiming for it is the
right method. And it would be hard to
suggest any other method by means of which
Conrad could impress his works with their
appearance of extraordinary depth and rich-
ness of atmosphere.
Curie attempts the difficult feat of “plac-
ing” Conrad in literature. He rightly ranks
him with the great romantic realists of
modern times. He makes a suggestive con-
trast.
Meredith could tell yoq exactly how a
certain type of woman in a certain class of
society in a certain era of the 19th century
would be likely to act in certain circum-
stances, but his woman would not be a real
woman (or, rather, her reality would be
faltering and uncertain), she would be a
typical woman. But Conrad would create
the woman herself. In his sparkling gallery
of feminine portraits Meredith never came
near achieving a Winnie Verloc {The Secret
Agent) I am not wishing to decry
Meredith But the fact is, he is simply
too clever. Jane Austen, who had no philo-
sophy, will long outlast the creator of The
Egoist, and Conrad, who has the artist’s
aloofness from problems, has imagined a few
figures which will, I believe, be known when
nearly all the novels of Meredith are moul-
dering on forgotten shelves. One could write
a tragic essay on the futility of cleverness in
art....lt is this scintillating obtrusion of
personality that is the canker of modern
English literature.
Fiction
May Sinclair remains on her high pedestal
as the leading Englishwoman in modern fic-
tion. This collection of stories, titled, from
the first, The Judgment of-Eve - (Hutchinson,
per Dymock’s Library), cheerfully breaks
through all the little rules that pernickety
critical personages have attempted to apply to
the length and content of the short-story
and the novel. In her introduction May Sin-
clair lays down the common-sense criterion
of judgment that a story or a novel may be
of any length, provided that that length is
necessary for its effect. The accusation has
been made, on the publication of these stories
in magazines, that certain of them were too
long for a short-story and too short for a
novel. Well, she never said they weren’t.
She does not assert that any one of them
is a short story or that any other is a novel.
The heinous crime has been imputed to her
of having made of her title-story a “novel
boiled down.”
“Now, there is no earthly reason why a
novelist should not boil down his novel, why
he should not present his subject in the most
intensely concentrated form, reduced to its
simplest expression. There is every reason
why he should, if his subject requires it. He
will only be in error if, having done it, he
thinks that he has written a short story and
begins to compare himself with de Maupas-
sant. . ..He is justified if his work shows that
he could not, without damaging his effect,
have added one word or taken another away.”
And she is personally convinced that this tale
would have lost by any words that could
conceivably have been added to it. “The pace of
the tale and the compression by which Aggie’s
death follows so fast on her engagement does
really give the effect of disillusionment and
retribution much more vividly and more in-
tensely than any long and lingering record
of the seven years between. It is, if you
like, a novel boiled down.”
Another of the stories, “The Wrackham
Memoirs,” has been accused of being a short
story spun out, its thinness overloaded with
a lot of inessential detail. It was, she bit-
terly records, squeezed into Harper’s by
means of certain “ghastly mutilations.” But
here she restores the lost passages, simply
Decause "it is a story of certain psychologi-
cal happenings, certain emotions and impres-
sions, certain complexities, far more essential
than the material plot, of which these pas-
sages helped to preserve the balance and the
value.” The story would, she cheerfully
admits, have made a thin and ineffectual
novel, and adds that the subject would have
burst the bounds of the short story, T o all
of which this page assents. May Sinclair
has high precedents for cutting her cloth
according to her suit. Meredith found, on
occasion, the same need for something in
length between the short story and the novel,
and proved that this length can contain a
work of literary art.
These stories show everywhere the sure
hand of a delicate craftmanship ; they deal
with nuances of thought, with subtleties of
psychology, with evanescent emotions that
the wrong word would vulgarise. “The
Judgment of Eve” is the irony of the—surely
rare—modern woman who dies of having too
many children. “The Fault” is a quaint
conceit, in which a girl’s innocent gesture
kills her hope of marriage, simply because it
reminded the man (in love with her) of the
gesture with which he had seen his, now
divorced, wife welcome her lover. “Wilkin-
son’s Wife” is a delicious story of the kindly
lady who “brought out” Wilkinson by in-
viting him (and his unnecessary wife) to her
at-homes, simply because she, like everybody
else, was sorry for his having such a wife,
only to find, when Wilkinson had been
“freed” by his wife’s death, that he had wor-
shipped his wife all along, and, indeed, had
merely come to the woman’s at-homes in the
vain hope that they would relieve her nerves.
“Miss Tarrant’s Temperament” is the elab-
orate drawing of a type of sexless woman
which surely could only be found in English
society. Miss Tarrant and Wrackham, in “The
Wraclcham Memoirs,” come under the merci-
less lash of May Sinclair’s irony, till —a fault
in artistry—the reader almost begins to feel
sorry for the helpless victims. Her exposure
of a literary success, an author of immense
popularity sheltered from criticism by his
robe of vanity, looks like a quite recognisable
portrait. That immense popularity will
never be May Sinclair’s. Her work is too
delicate, too beautiful.
J*
Angel Island, by Inez Haynes Gillmore
(Bell), is as curious a hybrid as her heroines.
She begins with the usual tropical island, on
which five men are shipwrecked; and, in
accordance with the canons of romantic fic-
tion, provides each hero with his feminine
mate. That the females are flying women—
women with feathered wings, speaking their
own bird-language—is only to be expected in
this delightful class of fantasy. That in each
case it is love at first sight, each man find-
ing his ideal in one of the bird-women, is
also necessary for the sentimental reader.
So far, the story is delightfully impossible,
smartly humorous, cleverly surmounting its
obvious improbabilities. But suddenly the
author becomes grimly realistic. The flutter-
ing, tantalising, beautiful bird-things are
meanly captured and brutally shorn of their
feathers. The women have to come to earth.
This would be the climax of the usual roman-
tic fantasy. But the author shows us the
bird-women married to the men, their gradual
disillusionment, their fierce longings for their
vanished wings, the birth of children, the
boys wingless, one girl with wings! Then
the inevitable contest between the mothers
and the fathers. The girl’s wings are to be
clipped by the father. He won’t have his
own child soaring out of his reach. The
revolt of the still untamed bird-women, their
victory, and the birth, at last, of a boy with
wings give away the author’s cunning
scheme. She has been writing nothing but a
suffragette allegory. She is showing the
New Woman, the new winged woman of the
future. Her wings are not feathered things
to be clipped; they are the wings of her soul.
The author has failed to make Angel
Island a work of art. The improbabilities
destroy the illusion of the allegory ; the
romance is obliterated by the too obvious
underlying serious purpose. Angel Island is
a hybrid. The book has glaring faults. The
five men, elaborately differentiated, are too
many heroes for the average reader to retain
separate and individualised in his mind ; one
forgets which is which. So the five bird-
women, also painstakingly pictured, blur in
the presentation. The island is merely the
tropical island of the novel writer: it isn’t
real. For many chapters the winged women
hover over the men, airily flirting and pro-
voking ; then one swift chapter hurries over
the love, engagement and marriage of the lot,
and ends with this: “The little naked figure
lay in the golden sunlight, translucent, like
an angel carved in alabaster. But on the
shoulder-blades, lay shadow, deep shadow —
no, not shadow,* a fluff of feathery down.
“ ‘Wings!’ Peachy said. ‘My little girl is
going to fly !’ ”
Then the allegory begins. The wings of
the women had been brutally shorn off—not
by the shears, but by marriage. The angels
had come down to earth. The men loved
their work, building a new camp, more than
they loved their womenkind. Julia explains:
“Why not? We’re the same, all the time.
We don’t change and grow. Their work does
change and grow. It presents new aspects
every day, new questions and problems and
difficulties, new answers and solutions and
adjustments. It makes them think all the
time. They love to think.” Women don’t.
Still they want to fly. Their husbands in-
form them that it’s wicked to fly—for one
thing, it isn’t womanly. And. then the
women sadly speak of their wings, They had
put their feathers reverently away.... until
one day Lulu got hers out and cut them
into brooms to sweep the hearth with;
Chiquita made a fan of hers, and mended it
from month to month with feathers from
her own wings; Clara used hers as a wall-
decoration; Peachy had long before thrown
hers into the sea; Julia burned hers.
“Because I wanted to mark in some way the
end of my desire to fly. We must stop
wanting to fly, we women We must learn
to walk.” There it is—the allegory un-
ashamed.
Quinney’s, by Horace Annesley Vacnell
(Murray, per Sydney Book Club), mere y
a pleasant story. Quinney 1S , a Dickens
type, a quaint, crude, sterling .
dealer in antiques, whose love for things is
always in danger of destroying his love
persons. His success in his business reacts
unfavorably on his home happiness. as
Vachell acutely says: _ “Adversity had
brought husband and wife together, pros-
perity sundered them. Very rarely does it
happen that a successful man can spare
time to spend on his wife. The charming
slackers make the most , congenial mates.
Many women, to the end of their lives, are
incapable of realising this elementary tact.
They want their husbands to climb high....
but they refuse to accept the inevitable Pen-
alties of supreme endeavor. Their husbands
return to them almost foundered, fit only
to eat and sleep. In the strenuous com-
petition of to-day what else is possible.
The novel shows how hard it is for a dealer
in antiques to keep strictly honest. But
Quinney shows in a dramatic scene that his
love for his daughter and his wife are the
main strands of his life-interest, and that
their happiness is predominant over even his
interest in his business. It is a readable
story, with much solid workmanship cun-
ningly subordinated to the romantic interest.
Germany’s White Paper is peculiarly Ger-
man. While the British White Booh gives
the whole of the diplomatic correspondence
and without comment, content to leave the
facts to speak for themselves, the German
publication gives but a selection of diplo-
matic documents, and finds it necessary to
explain, or explain away, the actual corres-
pondence printed. Germany’s White Paper
does not deal with Britain at all; it depicts
the conflict as purely Russo-German. Ger-
many, in her “explanation,” frankly admits
her assurance given to Austria that anything
Austria did would receive her approval,
knowing full well that Russia would be in-
evitably drawn into the conflict. Further
on, the remarkable German has the astound-
ing cheek to remark: “Shoulder to shoulder
with England we continued to work with-
out cessation for mediation,” —after having
told Austria that she would support her _to
the extent of a European war! The peculiar
“explanation” concludes with a characteris-
tically German lie: “On the morning of the
following day (August 2) France opened
hostilities.” We know that France had
withdrawn her troops some distance from the
frontier. Germany had to cross that fron-
tier before the war could begin. The only
important portion of this collection of
newspaper expressions of opinion and other
equally valuable “documents,” is q. complete
statement of the Servian reply to the Aus-
trian demands, with the peevish Austrian
comments attached to each article. From
this document' it is glaringly obvious that
Austria had no intention of accepting even
a more abject Servian surrender. It must
have taxed all Austria’s famous diplomatic
ability to find fault with Servians astonish-
ing offer to eat dust.
Blackie forwards the usual batch of
Christmas reading for youth. His Annual
surpasses his fine issue last year in excel-
lence of colored illustrations; but his Henty
story, The Bravest of the Brave, and boys’
books like Qunboat and Gun-Runner, mark
the end of an epoch in boys’ books. Who
wants to read about the campaign in Portu-
gal or gun-running adventures when the real
thing is upon us? Next year there will be
an overplus of war material for fiction of the
healthy adventure type. Even a book for
grown-ups like The Memoirs of Admiral Lord
Charles Beresford (Methuen) now seems like
playing with war.


Gatjjoiyflocderasfaje
Anthony Horderns’ for Fashion and Economy
Wrappers & Kimonos.
184 6/6
084
si
tm
&
m
554
7/11
at
iWhontj
Horderns
8159 1
25/6
224
3'g
437
&\\
234^
7'a
ir4s
4 /0
VALUE IN COSTUMES.
HERE ARE FIVE INEXPENSIVE FROCKS
AS ILLUSTRATED:—
The Namur. — Fashionable Robe, of Floral Crepe; the
V Front and Collar being Guipure Net Lace; the Skirt is
caught up on hips, forming triple Pannier, slightly open and
rounded at foot, wide folded Belt and ends of Floral Chine
Ribbon; White grounds with Helio, Tan, Blue and Pink
designs 32/6
The Nancy. Dainty Robe, in Floral Rosebud Cotton Voile ;
Bodice has American Collar with frilling of self down centie
front; Skirt has Pannier edged Frill, folded Silk Belt in tones
to match pattern; Biscuit, Navy, Grey and White
grounds 35/-
The Louvain. —Useful Robe, in Pompadour Voile; Collar
and Pipings of plain Voile to tone, new Frilling at waist;
Skirt has two shaped frills below hips; in White grounds with
fancy colored designs 14/6
The Bruges.—Smartly-cut Coat anti Skirt, in lussore
Poplin ; Tabs of fancy Braid on Collar and Cuffs ; high-waisted
Skirt with lap seams; Natural color only 27/6
The Rheims. —Basque Coat anti Skirt, in Colored Crepe;
Collar trimmed Checked Ratine in shades to tone ; Skirt pleated
into high waistband; Brown, Biscuit, Saxe and White 19/6
OTHER SMART STYLES:—
The Marguerite. — Effective Design, in White or Paris
color Embossed Net over Net foundation, edged Insertion ; the
American Blouse trimmed Insertion and Tucks 29/6
The Jessica. — A Dainty Design, in White Voile, trimmed
Guipure Edging; Skirt has double flounce, forming
new Tunic; the roll Collar, Belt and buttonholes are in either
Coral, Sky, Royal, Cerise, Tan or Reseda Voile 29/6
The Camellia. —Smart Robe Costume, of Japanese Silk,
American Blouse has long, set-in Sleeve, deep, turn-down
Collar ; the Vest is of pointed Guipure Lace; Skirt has double
Basque shaped to back ; Cream, Black or Navy 29/6
The Rosalind. — Pretty Robe Costume, in Embroidered
White Voile; the Magyar Bodice is effectively hemstitched
and trimmed Insertion and Crochet Buttons, the Jabot and
folded Belt are of contrasting shades of Colored Satin 29/6
The Viola. — An Attractive Gown, in richly Embroidered
Voile, effectively trimmed Guipure Insertion; the Skirt has
high-waisted Tunic, finished Corded Frill at waist.... 29/6
Summer Styles
in Wrappers & Kimonos.
No. 184. Wrapper, of plain Linene, Collar and Cuffs trimmed
Oriental Muslin; Grey, Butcher, Pink, Sky, Saxe.... 6/6
Similar style in dark Print, Collar trimmed stitching. . 6/11
In plain Crepe, trimmed bands of White 9/11
In plain Zephyr, Collar trimmed Embroidery .. 8/9, 10/9
No. 084. Broche Crepe Gown, trimmed Embroidery and
finished cord Girdle; Sky, Grey, Saxe, Ilelio, Biscuit 12/9
In plain Poplin, trimmed fancy floral border 12/9
Or plain Linene, trimmed Embroidery 8/9
No. 854. Useful Wrapper, in Navy and Butcher Print,
tucks on shoulders and inverted pleat at back.... 7/11
In plain Zephyr or figured Cambric, all colors 8/6
Similar style in plain Crepe, trimmed White bands.. 9/11
And in good quality Foulard, trimmed self bands.... 10/6
No. 8139. — Smart Tea Gown, in Cashmere, Collar and
Cuffs of spot Muslin, trimmed Lace, all c010r5.... 25/6
Other effective styles with elastic band at waist 39/6
Daintily trimmed Guipure and Silk, all c010r5.... • • 42/-
No. 224. — Japanese Crepe Kimono, all good color-
ings 3/9, 3/11
Contrasting Silk facings; Navy, Saxe, Sky, Grey, Cardinal, Pink,
Helio i 4/11
In effectively Embroidered plain Crepe 8/6
No. 437. —Effectively Embroidered Crepe Kimono,
Bell Magyar Sleeves, plain White facings, all colors —
6/11, 7/11, 12/6
In plain colored Crepe, with White facings 4/11
No. 234. — Plain Crepe Kimono Gown, Silk facings and
Cord fasteners 7/6, 8/6
In artistically printed “Viyella,” Silk facings 19/6
Handsomely Embroidered Silk and Crepe-de-Chine ICimonos, in
endless variety, from 16/9 to 7 Guineas
No. 1745. — Japanese Crepe Kimono, Bell Magyar Sleeves,
-White Crepe facings, all good colorings... 4/6, 4/11
With Silk facings 6/11
(Wttting Summer Costumes
Atillionij Horderns
m
m
s h
S P
a
#
n.
m
Pi
Namur
32fe
Naticu
35'-
Louvain
14^6
TV
DruOes
2 re
1%,
Rlieims
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
Palace Emporium
Brickfield Hill
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


m
SJ"
:*
A WORLD’S RECORD TARGET.
Composite target (reduced 3/16 of an inch) of
200 shots fired by G. W. Chesley in ten different
matches of the U. S. Inter-Club series. Score 1990
out of 2000—A World’s Record. Made with Win-
chester .22 Long Rifle “Lesmok” cartridges and
a Winchester Musket.
If you go in for target shooting or hunt with a .22
caliber rifle, of course you want to excel. To do so
you must use uniform, dependable ammunition.
Some makes of cartridges are as variable as the
weather. Some shots go high, some go low, and some don't go at
all. For accuracy and all around satisfaction, you can bank on
WWCHBSTM
.22 Caliber Cartridges
In all kinds of shooting they continue to excel. They are made by people who
have learned in making firearms many fine points about cartridges that could be
learned in no other way. No matter what the make or style of your favorite arm is
you can bring out its possibilities to the fullest degree by using Winchester make
of cartridges. Dealers everywhere sell them,
and a trial will convince you that it
is worth while to insist upon having
*
ESC
THE
yy BRAND
á
When You Don’t Feel Well.
If you are not feeling well; if you are run down ;
out-of-sorts, have a sickly taste in your mouth,
a sallow skin, headache, no appetite and no
energy, you know there is something wrong with
your system, yet perhaps you hardly feel ill
enough to call in the Doctor. But certainly
something must be done to correct the sluggish-
ness of your liver and tone up your digestion,
and for this purpose vou will find an excellent
remedy in Cockle’s Antibilious Pills.
Cockle’s Pills
A REPUTATION OF OVER 100 YEARS.
Cockle’s Pills are of purely a vegetable character. They
act pleasantly and painlessly, giving a splendid tone to the
liver and digestive apparatus, ard make you feel in the
pink of health. Prescribed
originally by a Doctor for
his patients, they have now
a world-wide sale.
« Bobbie
Peeler.”
â
When Sir Robert Peel introduced the police
service in 1829 his name became a house-
hold word, for policemen have been called
"Bobbies” ever since. Similarly, when
Dr. Cockle introduced his Antibilious Pills
over a century ago, his name, too, became a
household word, for Cockle’s Pills are
to-day famous the whole world over.
COCKLE’S PILLS
of Chemists through-
out the It orld.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
Insist on “ Sineleton s’ —refuse all substitutes.
‘ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawing's. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE-
I f you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won’t
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surelv with
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
COLORED POST-CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney,
.TODATIO
LIFE
ro fl
/C>s^3
Let in the Sunshine of Health
Pure and healthy as the sunlight, VITADATIO commences to brighten up your
existence from the FIRST dose. It is a great life-giving tonic, strong in its might
as a conferrer of new health and vigor.
This great Blood and Body Builder and Renovator has successfully cured suf-
ferers of Tumour, Bright’s Disease, Hydatids, Liver Troubles, Debility, Chronic
Indigestion, Insomnia, Nervousness, etc.
Why not benefit from my experience of treating cases like yours? Tell me
where you suffer, how you suffer, and my advice—mind you, it’s given free-will
be immediately at your service. Send coupon for a sample.
S. A. PALMER, 439 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
Send me post free sample of Vitadatio, for which I enclose I/- in stamps.
Name
Address
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
ã
HEAR
LATEST 8- TONE
Mears Ear-phone
The final triumph of the inventor of the first successful multi-tone
Ear-phone. IF YOU ARE DEAF, this perfected instrument will enable
you to hear DISTINCTLY, PERFECTLY.
Eight Tones! 8 different adjustments to suit every condi-
tion of the ear. Instantly changed by a touch of the
finger. Just as easily and as satisfactorily regulated for
the hearing as field-glasses are for the sight. Thus ensur-
ing perfect hearing in all degrees of deafness.
The Hears Ear-phone is based on the microphonic sound-
reproducing principle. mgmy sensitive and self-adjusting it intensifies the faintest sounds to just
that degree required in ordinary conversation, or in the Church or Lecture Hall. Comfortably carried
in the vest pocket or pinned to the -blouse. Call and test it free, or write for full particulars.
MELBOURNE: L. G. Callaway & Down, Tuckett Chambers, 361 Collins Street.
BRISBANE: Carl Zoeller Ltd., 246 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE: Chas. Balfour, Central Chambers, Charles Street.
PERTH: Alf. B. Hadden, 35 Barrack Street.
HOBART: Chas. Davis Ltd., Elizabeth Street.
AUCKLAND: Clem Bartley, 8 Ponsonby Road.
Mears Bar-phone Co. Inc., 45 West 34th St., New York, U.S.A.
Australasian
Representative—
A. E. SLADE,
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 George Street,
SYDNEY.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS
LOTION.
QUICKLY REMOVES
SKIN ERUPTIONS . . .
ENSURING A
CLEAR COMPLEXION
The slightest Hash, faintest
Spot, irritable Pimples, dis-
figuring Blotches, obstinate
Eczema disappear by applying
SU LPHOLIN E
Which renders the skin spot-
less, soft, clear, supple, com-
fortable.
For 42 Years.
BOTTLES 1/- and 2/9.
SULPHOLINE
Wqg been the Remedy for
ERUPTIONS
PIMPLES
REDNESS
PSORIASIS
ROUGHNESS,
RASHES
ECZEMA
SCURF
ACNE
BLOTCHES
SPOTS
ROSEA
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists—
J. PEPPER & CO., LTD., Bedford Laboratories, LONDON, S.E., Eng.,
and can be obtained direct from them by post or from
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removes the effect of Sunscon


Benger’s is
natural food entire-
ly free from any
chemical substance
whatsoever,,
w
X
It is different
from all other
foods in being
scientifically
combined with
natural diges-
tive principles.
*
Food
is prepared for child, invalid,
or aged person, with fresh new milk,
and in course of preparation, both
the Food and the milk are partiaMy
digested, as desired.
This unique feature enables Benger’s Food
to be assimilated under almost all conditions
of illness and digestive disorder .
Benger's Food is so/d in tins by Chemists , etc., everywhere.
An interesting booklet explaining how Benger’s Food ‘assists Nature*
fo • Invalids and Convalescents, post f ee from
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER,Engf.,
Branch Offices :
NEW YORK (U.S A.) 92, William St. SYDNEY (N.S.W.I Tl 7, Pitt St.
Canadian t gents— Nat'O a! Drug & Chemical Co., Ltd., 34, St.
175 A Gabriel St., MONTREAL, and branches throughout CANADA.
■
O£R
Don’t Throw
Away Your
Williams’
Talc. Tins.
Post four empty
tins (any odor)
to the J. B.
Williams Go.,
Box 98, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and we
will send you
without charge
r
Williams’
exquisite Silver-
plated Vanity-
Box, with
Powder
Puff and
Concentra-
ting Mir-
ror, exact-
ly like il-
lustration.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
t
m
&
DO YOU WANT
A FAT PAY
ENVELOPE?
Are you satis-
fied with your
present position
and salary ?
Trained Men
receive Big Pay.
Is Where
Our Training
Affects You
The I.C.S. can give you a
thorough training in your
own home and in your spare
time at reasonable cost. I.C.S
courses have been raising salaries
for over 20 years, and can help you
to raise yours. 200 courses to
choose from. Write for free prospectus.
INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENCE SCHOOLS
(COLONIAL) LTD.,
Dept. 8.Y.,
26=30 Jamieson Street, Sydney.
I require information concerning your method of
“teaching:—
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING,
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING,
BOOK-KEEPING,
SALESMANSHIP
ARCHITECTURE
FARMING.
Address
I
ill
IRISH MOSS
mm
m
&
It is a good policy to keep in the home
a Cough Remedy of Proven Merit. She is
a wise mother who insists upon getting a
Skilfully Prepared Medicine.
has stood the Test of Fifty Years. Those
who use it are amazed at its Wonderful
Curative Properties.
vSaved from DrinK
Miss - , the daughter of a one-time drunkard, writes : ’‘Just another letter to
let you know that after 18 months from taking your Golden Specific father still
keeps off the drink, and my friend that you are supplying with treatment now is
also losing the craving." Golden Specific is the only sure and lasting cure for
drunkenness. Can be given secretly, and is guaranteed harmless. It quickly
banishes the craving for strong drink —some cases cured in few days. .
TRY IT FREE. To all who are interested we will send a FREE
SAMPLE, descriptive booklet, and testimonials on receipt of 2d. stamp.
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO. (Dept. B 2017) PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
a
2
Hilt' .. x \
V
v\ N \
Every Woman Can Have
A PERFECT
BUST
It matters not if you have been thin, and scragg-ly for years, even if you
never were properly developed your measurements can be increased to normal
and your figure nicely rounded out to .pleasing, plmnp proportions. It is
done every day for others—why not you ?
Mrs. B. Driesden wrote from Armidale, 25th May, 1913: —
“I do not require any more of I>r. Falliere’s Flesh-Food,
as I am developed as much as I desire. My measurements
have increased satisfactorily, and my health has improved
wonderfully. 1 will tell my friends of your treatment, and
will always recommend it, and I wish to thank you for your
kindness and prompt attention to my wants.”
Many oases gain as much as five pounds a week, and improvements up to as much as ten inches
have been made in bust measurements. Send or call for full particulars at once. Thousands endorse
and recommend this wonderful method. Guarantee given in every case accepted.
SEND US a 2d.
STAMP and
LET US SEND
YOU A FREE
BOOK & FREE
SAMPLE OF
‘FLESH=FOOD’
GET THEIR TESTIMONIALS.
We suggest that all lady readers who
see this article will do well to investigate
the truth of these assertions. Send two
penny stamps, and we will post you full
particulars and a FREE SAMPLE
TREATMENT.
We will send you scores of grateful
letters from delighted women and so
much evidence that you must be con-
vinced. Write to-day. If convenient
call for an interview. Lady attendant.
Advice and consultation free.
Hours: 9 to 5 daily.
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO.,
1103 ASH STREET. SYDNEY..
Treatment by Post.
So carefully have
we arranged our
correspondence de-
partment that a
patient at any
point, no matter
how distant, can
receive the same
careful considera-
tion as though she
were able to visit
us every week.
ISIOJ
ä
Buy Stockings and Socks
that are Brit sh Made —
å
Guaranteed Quality for
Men, Women, & Children
"jgsss Stockings and Socks are made from the best quality Australasian wool —
expertly woven by skilled British labour in Leicester, the world’s greatest hosiery
centre —and every pair carry the British branded mark of excellence.
The maker is thus protecting your inte'ests as well_as his own—against the German-made un-
■JS2S
named and inferior hosiery,
teed unshrinkable, and a
For behind
inimitable
ā
Brand, there is honest British quality guaran-
finish that is as soft as silk.
Insist on 'Jason !
You will then not only support the industry of the "Motherland" but will get
better value for your money.
Your Draper or Outfitter will if you insist supply you.
If not. write to us, we will put you right.
The Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
Aaso <3
m
à
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.'W.,
writes:—
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least. desire to
smoke, therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizzi-
ness, Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I
have every reason to believe were caused through the
use of tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are
only remembered as a hideous nightmare. I eat
and sleep well, and feel fit to face the world again.
It will give me great pleasure to recommend your
remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
[i.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
Ain CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact.THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT,
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children,
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet _ their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The Song of Little Gardens.
There’s a hum of quiet music in the deep-
ening of the twilight,
Like far bells in distant valleys heard
through green of murmurous trees,
Or the elfin chant that haunts us when the
thin moon casts a shy light
Down a happy wind-tossed mo ntain with
a cornfield at its knees.
’Tis the song of little gardens, ’tis the song
of quiet labor,
Of the purple grapes in cluster and the rose
upon the wall,
Of the blue smoke climbing skyward and
the kindly nodding neighbor,
And the moist, warm earth upbreathing its
brown benison for all.
Tall white angels winging higher through
the incense that enshrouds them,
Striking with their slim, white figures
chords with Godward longing tense,
Pause and bend with eager faces through
the mystery that clouds them
As that lower, sw’eeter ea th-note trembles
on their holy sense.
’Tis the song of little gardens, weeded bor-
ders green and growing,
Watered seed-beds faintly breathing where
the starlight fires the dew,
Youngest tendrils closely clinging and the
broad leaves softly blowing
Over buds that kiss in darkness when the
warm wind wakes anew.
Where the drums of death are throbbing,
and the fires of doom are burning,
And the lightnings fork and shiver through
the fields of God’s despair,
Where the torrent slaughter pouring, hell-
ward with each day’s returning,
Drowns the world in tears of madness comes
a murmur on the air.
’Tis the sigh of little gardens trampled under
foot and wasted,
Of the withered leaf and blossom by the
black and broken wall.
Of the vine torn from the trellis and the
fruit that falls untasted.
And the awful thing unburied where the
weeds are rank and tall.
Through the world cry and the darkness.
stony grief and fierce r( d sorrow.
Through the war hymns and the shouting.
through the victor’s shuddering cheer.
Comes the hope voice faint but clearly
borne through mist veils of the morrow,
■Calling all the earth to ’quiet, making music
through her fear.
’Tis the song of little gardens better walled
and safely guarded.
With the large fruit hanging golden o’er
the graves of broken kings.
And the holy sweat of labor with the brown
earth’s gifts rewarded
With the peoples calm to listen while the
warm, sweet summer sings.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Stanzas Written by an Unmitigated
Brute.
I parted from my love to-day,
My wife-that-means-to-be;
For seven weeks she’ll be away,
For seven weeks I’m free!
Will absence make her heart grow chill?
Though parted, she will love me still.
She says ! Alas ! I fear she will!
With fifty vices, more or less,
Is Love all-time accurst.
And of this number, faithfulness
Is easily the worst!
Most girls of dresses wear a few —
This day a green one, next a blue—
Why wear one love a lifetime through?
’Tis better to have loved and lost,
Than to have won a girl
Who true remains, at any cost.
This swine has such a pearl!
And now I’m praying hard that she,
At surfing, play or tango tea.
Meets one she fancies more than me!
"VICTORIA.
HARRISON HOG.
To Francina, Shouting.
Cods ! but you’re ugly, squablike, squawking
wench;
Epitome of warnings from your sex.
Who could behold your waist and not
retrench ?
Who see that face, desirous to annex
It, or its isthmus, or that continent
Of flesh mislaid, uncontoured and unmapped,
To wit, your corpus vile, whereanent
We see all natural boundaries overlapped.
What are you screaming in that strident
yelp,
Tuned to demented parrot’s topmost pitch?
Is it an insult, or a cry for help?
Or, chance, an amorous invitation —which?
No matter, in effect, it is a straight
And strong discourse against all loose
designs ;
Eor, sure, the boldest rake would hesitate
In face of such a whiff, to storm your lines.
Yet you are young, Francina; there, once
more,
Stares Caution, written big, for, seeing all
You are at thirty, to foresee three score,
The naughtiest of prophets might appal.
Why do I rail? —what odds? You cannot
hear,
Nor would you heed, though I should yell my
best;
Yet, one might ask, why do I tell it here?
Or why not let your imperfections rest?
My answer is—they will not, nor allow
Me, or the neighborhood for miles around;
And, in the ring of that unholy row,
Undoubtedly the argument is sound.
I want to see the mountains and the trees;
I want to hear the brook, the bells, the birds;
I want to scent the blossoms and the breeze;
I even want to weave them into words.
I want to think, to feel, to read, to write;
And you set all my seven senses wrong;
You put the very fowls of fact to flight,
You sordid subject of a sorry song.
MAJORCA, SPAIN.
WAIF.


ECONOMY IN USING ELECTRIC LIGHT RESTS WITH THE LAMP
First, Last and Always.
“SWITCHON”
Couples witH
“SATISFACTION.”
We have big stocks of “Switchon” Lamps in all sizes. They
are All=British Lamps—try a few. We also stock “ Osrams.”
W. G. WATSON & CO. LTD.,
Suppliers of Everything- Electrical,
279 Clarence St.; 426-439 Kent Street, Sydney
(Just round from the Town Hall).
Which for YOUR Store, Mr. Country Storekeeper
The old, smoky, unsatisfactory Lamp, with its danger, its constant need of attention and
its feeble light, or the clear white display light of the safe and dependable Electric
Lamp ?
Electric Light is now placed at your disposal, regardless of Local Power Stations, etc.
We can supply you with a Private Plant and
ă
And the LISTER-
BRUSTON Auto-
matic Electric
Lighting Set
starts itself.
«
We want to tell YOU how cheaply you can get the economy, comfort and convenience
of Electric Light with a Lister-Bruston Set. There are over 1000 Plants in use to-day.
Send your address to our nearest Office NOW.
AGENTS: N.S.W.—W. O. WATSON & CO., LTD., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
VIC.—SUTHERLAND & ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—CLUTTERBUCK BROS., Adelaide.
HIMROD'S
asthma powder
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF,
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALE, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W
Branches in all parts of the world.
Let the “Rex” Chefs
Cook for You.
Gi
E
BfUilt
I
Put it on your slate to order a few tins of some of these Rex
Brand Canned Delicacies.
You may have “a gem of a cook,” but with all her ability can
she prepare a dish to equal
Rex”
Pork and Beans?
REX
How long would YOU have to work in the Kitchen to give the
Beans, for instance, that nutty, mealy effect?
And that beautiful flavor imparted to them by the special
Tomato Sauce —is it possible to equal that in the Home
kitchen? Yet these and other advantages are yours for a
moderate cost. Nothing better for a special hurry-up Meal
than “Rex” Pork and Beans.
Solti by all Grocers. Ask for “Rex” Brand and
* take no other.
Other Canned Delicacies are:—
Ham Pate, Jib. tins.
Veal and Tongue Pate, Jib. tins.
Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
Pork and Beans, ljlb. tins.
Pigs’ Peet in Jelly, lib. tins.
Lunch Tongues in Jelly, lib.
tins.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese, in
decorated tins only,
and
“Rex” Brand Lard, for cooking
purposes, in lib. prints.
“REX” FRESH SMAEE GOODS.
(Procurable at all grocers anti
small-goods shops and carts in
Brisbane and district and Ben-
digo and district only.)
Saveloys.
Strasburg Sausage.
Veal German Sausage.
White Puddings.
Black Puddings.
Pork Sausages.
Frankfurt Sausage.
Fog'g;itt, Jones Co. Ltd.
Curers of “Rex** Hams and Bacon,
Packers of “Rex** Pure Food Produ&s,
m
/
tM
m
m
J&k
Use the Hose
NOW.
These hot, dry days spell rum for
your garden unless watered reg
larly with a rubber hose. « et a
length of
Watershed
RED RUBBER
GARDEN HOSE.
“»TIS THE
HOSE THAT MAKES THE DIFFERENCE.*’
#in. x 3=ply 1/- ft. ; or
30ft., complete with Spray Nozzle and Tap
Union, 32/-
** PROSPECT** BlacK Rubber Hose.
tfin. x 3=ply, 6>£d. ft.; or .
30ft., complete with Spray Nozzle & Tap Union, 18/3.
If buying through your store specify Perdriau hose and no other,
lists post free.
Carriage extra.
Samples and price
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
Australian Manufacturers of All Rubber Goods,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane
OSTER
When it comes to Threading Tubes
there is a special tool to fit your particular use
in the Oster line. 20 years of specialisation
guarantees their quality—an Oster means
clean threads quickly cut.
FOR SALE BY LEADING DEALERS
IN ALL CITIES.
The Oster Mfg. Co.,
Cleveland, 0., U,S.A.
[i
ą
OSTER
liH
(nil* * ,ri '
a.
s--
jr M
( L >m
Triumphs
In Air and
On Earth
OME of the recent achievements in respect to
petrol consumption to the mile are distinctly
flattering to Pratt’s Spirit. At the R.A.C.
Light Car Trials at Harrogate Eng., 53.98
miles to the gallon were obtained and an award of
six out of nine gold medals was secured by the Gor-
don Car and three Swift Cars, all using Pratt’s Spirit.
In the Senior Tourist Trophy and Junior Tourist
Trophy races, both in the Isle of Man, Pratt’s again
secured premier position. Following this, Mr. K.
Lee Guinnes on the Sunbeam, in the Tourist Trophy
Car Race, the Blue Riband of the year, also employed
Pratt’s Spirit. This was followed by the World’s
Record being put up by S. G. Hornsted at Brook-
lands, of 128.16 miles per hour, also on Pratt’s.
In the field of aviation, Mr. W. T. Brock, in the
London-Manchester-London Air Race, and the Lon-
don-Paris-London Flight, both of which events he
placed to his credit, attributes in some degree his
success to the use of this famous spirit. A series
of successes of this character serves to demonstrate
the reliability and efficiency of the Pratt Spirit.
The Allied Forces operating at the seat of war are equipped with Pratt’s.
S
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand.


The Bulletin
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 35.—M0. 1815.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1914.
Pjmch Gd.
THE CHANCE THAT WAS LOST.
HOLMAN: “Why can’t I have a war and a deficit like that?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia lor the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per Annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
6000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., W Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — lK. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Rates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., BJoz. to 10oz., 21d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, ioz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1914.
COLORED AUSTRALIA.
A few of the lone remnants who still
believe in cheap colored labor are beginning
to use the war as an excuse for advocating
the introduction of Hindus and Mohamme-
dans into the Territory and other parts of
Northern /Australia. They don’t, how-
ever, recommend that these people should
come in as full and complete citizens. The
admiration of the Empire and the Flag
doesn’t go so far as the proposition that the
man from India should be a full-blown
voter, that his right of access should be un-
limited, that he should have a chance to
sit in Parliament and hold the Premiership,
and be eligible for the position of Governor.
It is merely propounded that, because he has
proved himself a good and valiant member
of the Empire, he ought to be admitted as a
sort of indentured laborer, to toil for low
wages during a fixed period, and to take the
humble back track for home when his term
of service is completed. This doesn’t seem
much of a reward for our colored imperial
brother, but the Asiatic immigration crowd
is never lavish in its rewards. The politi-
cal cheap labor man regards the Hindu as a
fellow-citizen, but he doesn’t want him as
Premier or Treasurer or Minister for Works.
The clerical cheap labor man is willing to
swear that all men are free and equal, but
the idea of a converted Sikh becoming in-
cumbent of an affluent city tabernacle, or
being appointed Archbishop of Sydney, would
break him up and make him throw his col-
lection plate from the battlements. The
commercial cheap labor man is no more will-
ing than the most bigoted White Australian
that Hindu banks and building societies and
finance companies and warehouses should
over-run our cities. And as for the legal
cheap labor man —well, there would probably
be no madder institution in Australia if
Chunder Ghose was admitted to the N.S.W.
Bar on his Indian qualifications, and took
Bruce Smith’s brief at a reduced rate.
The consistent proposition of the advocates
of the brown influx is that our brown
friend, by reason of his valor and his good
faith, should be allowed to enter Australia,
and do the least intelligent sort of work at
the lowest salary. It is a poor kind of
enthusiasm.
* * * *
The one thinf to be remembei;ed in
moments of popular emotion is that it isn’t
the Flag but the Race which counts.
Within little more than 100 years the Boer,
the Dutchman, the Yankee, the Belgian, the
Frenchman, the Russian, the Spaniard and
the Sepoy of India have been our inveterate
enemies. To-day they are all friends. The
German and the Austrian were our strenu-
ous supporters 100 years ago, and to-day
they are our maddest opponents. The
Burman was our foe yesterday and is a good
British subject to-day. Britain shed blood
like water about GO years ago in support
of _ the Unspeakable Turk, and to-day its
opinion of the Turk wouldn’t look well in
print. Less than 40 years ago Indian war-
riors came to Europe to uphold the Otto-
man against the Russian, and now they
are in Europe helping the Russian against
the Ottoman. The Egypt of Arabi Pasha’s
time was bitterly anti-British. The
Egypt of to-day is ready to shed its
last fez and its last Pharaoh in the inter-
ests of the Empire. A few years hence,
after the Kaiser has hanged himself in
Potsdam, and Alsace and Lorraine have
gone back to France, and the Prussian and
Austrian sections of Poland have been
restored to the revived Polish kingdom, and
Bavaria has resumed its separate exist-
ence, and the ancient Duke of Cumberland
(the man who went mad in Denmark) has
recovered his job as King of Hanover, and
the indemnities have all been paid, either by
cash or 10 U, and Belgium and France
have united as a solid and enlarged king-
dom, with King Albert as sovereign—after
these things and many others have hap-
pened, there may be a complete new
shuffle of the cards. A very humble and
diminished Prussia—a Prussia which will
feed and drink beer out of the hand —-may
again be Britain’s friend and poor relation,
ns it was in the early 60’s of last century.
And a strenuous and resurrected China
may,_ a few years hence, raise the slogan or
bagpipe tune of “Asia for the Asiatics,” and
completely upset the position in India, as
it did about 150 years ago, when a Chinese
army came almost in sight of Calcutta.
The only reason why it didn’t ao any farther
was that its commander didn’t regard Cal-
cutta as worth capturing.
* * * *
The Flag wanders all over the place, but
the Race —unless a country is stricken by
conquest or gives way to the craving for
cheap labor and foolish intermarriage—
remains. A year after this cruel war is
over it will again be possible for an English
or Australian girl to marry a German or
Austrian gentleman without losing caste. It
will be just as impossible as it was previ-
ously for her to marry a Ghurka or a
valiant Chinese fellow-patriot from Hong
Kong without losing caste. The Race is
an imperishable principle, while the Flag
is a shifting episode. It is a piece of cloth.
It is here to-day and some other place to-
morrow. The British Flag has been in a
hundred places where it isn’t now, and it is
to-day in a hundred places where it wasn’t
before. Even the most enthusiastic sup-
porters of the colored tradition don’t propose
to recognise the bravery and fidelity of our
Asiatic fellow-subject by making him a
member of the clerical profession, or the Bar,
or the Legislature, but merely by allowing
him to be a low-priced hewer of wood and an
economical drawer of water. They know,
without really knowing how they know, that
the mixture of races is a disaster. The
progeny of two pure-bred dogs of different
varieties is only a mongrel. The man who
is Rajput on one side and British on the
other is only an Eurasian—held in contempt
by both races. It is an emaciated compli-
ment to our Indian fellow-soldiers to pro-
pose that they should be allowed to hack
timber in tropical Australia as indentured
toilers. Yet that is all that the most en-
thusiastic advocate and the mogt excited
Bruce Smith of a colored Australia ever
has proposed.
A FANTASY OF WAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From Australia.
Oh, tell me, God of Battles ! Oh, say what
is to come !
The King is in his trenches, the millionaire
at home;
The Kaiser with his toiling troops, the Czar
is at the front.
Oh! Tell me, God of Battles! Who bears
the battle’s brunt?
The Queen knits socks for soldiers, the
Empress does the same,
And know no more than peasant girls which
nation is to blame.
The wounded live to fight again, or live to
slave for bread ;
The Slain have graves above the Slain —the
Dead are with the Dead.
The widowed young shall wed or not, the
widowed old remain—
And all the nations of the world prepare for
war again!
But ere that time shall be, O God, say what
shall here befall!
Ten millions at the battle fronts, and we're
five millions all!
The world You made teas wide, O God, the
world we made is small.
We toiled not as our fathers toiled, for Sport
was all our boast;
And so we built our cities, Lord, like warts,
upon the coast.
* * * *
From Europe.
The seer stood on the mountain side, the
witch was in her cave ;
The gipsy with his „ caravan, the sailor on
the wave;
The sophist in his easy chair, with ne'er a
soul to save,
The factory slaves went forth to slave, the
peasant to the field;
The women worked in winter there for one-
tenth of the yield ;
The village Granny nursed their babes to give
them time to slave;
The child was in the cradle, and the grand-
sire in his grave.
The rich man slumbered in his chair, full
fed with wine and meat;
The lady in her carriage sat, the harlot
walked the street
With paint upon her cheek and neck,
through winter’s snow and sleet.
We saw the pride of Wealth go mad, and
Misery increase—
And still the God of Gods was dumb and all
the world was Peace!
The wizard on the mountain side, he drew
a rasping breath,
For he was old and near to life, as he was
near to death;
And lie looked out and saw the star they
saw at Nazareth.
“Two thousand years have passed,” he said.
“A thousand years,” he said.
“A hundred years have passed,” he said,
“and, lo! the star is red!
The time has come at last,” he said, and
bowed his hoary head.
He laid him on the mountain-side —and so
the seer was dead.
And so the Eastern Star was red, and it
was red indeed —
We saw the Red Star in the South, but we
took little heed.
(The Prophet in his garret starved or drank
himself to death.)
The witch was mumbling in her hole before
the dawn was grey ;
The witch she took a crooked stick and
prodded in the clay ;
She doddered round and mumbled round as
is the beldame’s way.
“Four children shall be born,” she said,
“four children at a birth ;
Four children of a peasant brood —and what
shall come on earth?
Four of the poorest peasantry that Europe
knows,” she said,
“And all the nations of the world shall count
their gory dead!”
The babes are horn in Italy—and all the
world is red!
* * * *
The Ship.
The world You gave was wide, O Lord, and
wars were far away!
The goal was just as near, O Lord, to-morrow
or to-day!
The tree You grew was stout and sound to
carve the plank and keel.
(And when the darkness hid the sky Your
hand was on the wheel.)
The pine You grew was straight and tall to
fashion spar and mast.
Our sails and gear from flax and hemp were
stout and firm and fast.
You gave the metal from the mine and
taught the carpenter
To fasten plank and rib and beam, and
sheath and iron her.
The world You made was wide, O Lord, with
signs on sea and sky ;
And all the stars were true, O Lord, You
gave to steer her by.
More graceful than the albatross upon the
morning breeze.
Ah me ! she was the fairest thing that ever
sailed the seas ;
And when the madness of mankind burns
out at last in war,
The world may yet behold the day she’ll sail
the seas once more.
We were not satisfied, O Lord, we were not
satisfied ;
We stole Your electricity to fortify our pride !
You gave the horse to draw our loads, You
gave the horse to ride;
But we must fly above the Alps and race
beneath the tide.
We searched in sacred places for the things
we did not need;
Your anger shook our cities down—and yet
we took no heed.
We robbed the water and the air to give us
“energy,”
As we’d exhaust the secret store of electri-
city.
The day man come —and such a day!—ivhen
we shall need all three.
* * * *
And lest Thou shouldst not understand our
various ways and whys,
We cut Thy trees for paper, Lord, whereon
to print our lies.
We sent the grand Titanic forth, for plea-
sure, gold and show :
And all her skeletons of wealth and jewels
lie below.
For fame or curiosity, for pride, and greed,
or trade,
We sought to know all things and make all
things that Thou hast made!
From Pole to Pole we sought to speak, and
Heaven’s powers employ—
Our cruisers feverishly seek such language to
destroy.
We shaped all things for war, and now the
Sister Nations wade
Knee-deep in white man’s blood to wreck all
things that we have made!
For in the rottenness of Peace —worse than
this bitter strife !
We murdered the Humanity and Poetry of
Life.
* * * *
The Bells and the Child.
The gongs are in the temple—the bells are in
the tower;
The “tom-tom” in the jungle and the town
clock tells the hour;
And all Thy feathered kind at morn have
testified Thy power.
Did ever statesman save a land or science
save a soul? —
Did ever Tower of Babel stand or war-drums
cease to roll?
Or wedding bells to ring, O Lord —or
requiems to toll?
Did ever child in cradle laid —born of a
healthy race —
Cease for an hour, all unafraid, to testify
Thy grace?
That shook its rattle from its bed in its proud
father’s face?
Cathedral bells must cease awhile, because of
Pride and Sin,
That never failed a wedding morn that hailed
a king and queen,
Or failed to peal for victory that brave men
died to win.
(Or failed to ring the Old Year out and
ring che New Year in.)
The world You made was wide, O God ! — O
God, ’tis narrow now —
And all its tvays must run with blood, for we
knew more than Thou!
And millions perish at the guns or rot beside
the plough,
For we knew more than Thou.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
THE ANTWERP BLUNDER.
Under this heading the London Morning
Post (15/10/’l4) wrote as follows: —
Some little time ago we ventured to warn the
Government of the danger of any amateur or civilian
interference with the military and naval operations
on which the fate of the British Empire depends.
The affair of Antwerp shows that this warning was
not only necessary but that it was unheeded. And
the time has come, in our judgment, for more plain
and definite speaking. What has to be said, then,
is that the attempt to relieve Antwerp by a small
force of Marines and Naval Volunteers was a costly
blunder, for which Mr. Winston Churchill must be
held responsible on the present evidence. How did
the position stand? Antwerp was being used as a
base by the Belgian Army, which was conducting
harassing operations against the enemy’s line of com-
munications. The fortress, owing to the lack of
heavy modern artillery, was not in a position to
resist a serious attack from the German siege train.
And, of course, a great and populous city like Ant-
werp was in no case to stand a devastating bombard-
ment over helpless forts. When, therefore, it be-
came obvious that the German attack could not he
adequately met, the proper course was for the
Belgian Army to retire from the position and retreat
to a position of more safety. The only alternative—
a bad alternative at the best —was for the Allies to
throw into the fortress a strong relieving force
capable of holding the trenches against all attacks
and adequately supported by great guns. That would
have been a bad alternative, because the proper place
for reinforcements is the field where the Allied
armies are fighting the German main army.
But even this bad alternative ivas not adopted.
A more futile scheme was devised: at the last
moment a mixed force of Marines and Naval Volun-
teers, with a few heavy guns, were thrown into the
city. By that time the outer sector of the fortifica-
tions had already been breached; the city lay at
the mercy of the great howitzers; the line of retreat
was most seriously threatened; and it was pressingly
important that the Belgian Field Army should re-
tire without any delay. The force thrown into the
city by the Admiralty consisted partly of our admir-
able Marines —as fine a force of its kind as there is
in the world- —but largely of odds and ends thrown
together, and Volunteers who were undergoing train-
ing for quite different kind of work. These men
were rushed across and thrown into the trenches when
the position had already been lost. They lay in the
trenches under a deadly artillery fire and quite unable
to reply to the German artillery. But the worst of
the whole affair was not the loss of our fine Marines
and brave Volunteers, ill as we can spare them for a
useless undertaking. The most serious result of the
diversion was that it encouraged the Belgian authori-
ties to prolong a defence which, on clear evidence,
they had before been forced to recognise as hopeless,
and to delay in a position from which it became
hourly more difficult to extricate their army. If the
British Force had not been promised the Belgian
Army could have been got out of Antwerp into safety
some days before, when the line of retreat was not
yet such a desperate hazard. And the citizens of Ant-
werp might have been spared the dreadful ordeal of
bombardment. As it was, the departure of the Army
was delayed until its escape became extremely diffi-
cult. The despatch of the British Force, then, did not
extricate the Belgian Army; but, on the contrary,
tended to delay it until its extrication had become
more difficult and dangerous: the movement, in short,
was within an ace of bringing the Belgium Army to
destruction. The suggestion that our spiall Naval
Force extricated the Belgian Army is not .only an in-
sult to that army, but cannot even be advanced in the
face of the War Office statement: “The British offered
to cover the retreat, but General de Guise desired
that they should leave before the last division °f the
Belgian Army.” In fact, what it amounts to is this,
that the presence of the British Force encumbered and
delayed a retreat already delayed too long owing to
the despatch of that Force. We have reason to fear
that the loss on the British side is considerably more
serious than the Secretary of the Admiralty is pre-
pared to admit, and we think that the country is
entitled to have a full and correct list of our casual-
ties. But even the admitted loss is quite sufficiently
serious when it is remembered that the Force did not
inflict a corresponding loss upon the other side, anil
that the expenditure resulted from a radically bad
plan of operations.
Now, we put it to .the Government: On whose
authority was this adventure arranged and conducted ?
Was it military or was it naval? If it was military,
were the plans approved by General French and
Lord Kitchener? If it was naval, was it a scheme
arranged and approved by the whole Board of
Admiralty ? Is it not true that the energies of Mr.
Winston Churchill have been directed upon this
eccentric expedition, and that he has been using the
resources of the Admiralty as if he were personally
responsible for the naval operations? It is not right
or proper that Mr. Churchill should use his posi-
tion of civil authority to press his tactical and stra-
tegic fancies upon unwilling experts who are
sufficiently harassed by the natural difficulties of the
situation. We understand that Mr. Churchill has
been once at the British headquarters in France, once
in Dunkirk, and once in Antwerp within the lust
month. This dispersal of his activities in fields
which do not properly concern him cannot conduce to
the regularity or good working of his department.
His place is at the Admiralty day and night. We
suggest to Mr. Churchill’s colleagues that they
should, quite firmly and definitely, tell the First Lord
that on no account are the military and naval opera-
tions to be conducted or directed by him. The work
of civil administration is quite sufficient to occupy
the whole energies of a Minister without any excur-
sions into other regions. The other day Mr.
Churchill used the expression that the German navy
were to be “dug out of their hole like rats” if they
could not be got out otherwise. Now it is obvious
that either this was an idle boast or that it fore-
shadowed a combined military and naval operation.
Tf the former, then boasting is not appropriate to a
British Minister’s position; if the latter, why betray
a secret of such importance? We therefore venture
to advise the Government to keep a tight hand upon
their impulsive colleague; and we suggest also to the
Opposition Leaders that it is their duty, by using
their influence in the proper quarters, to see that no
more mischief of the sort is done. Happily, in the
present ease the damage, although serious, is in no
way vital. But we might have another commitment
of the same sort which would involve us in much
heavier and more important losses.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
How Pilate, the Dago, Washed His
Tail.
Dear Bulletin, —This is the way we pro-
gress in a vicious circle, or dance to no pur-
pose round the mulberry bush, or something
of the sort: (1) In the first place the Aus-
tralian Government finds that a . purely
revenue tariff causes an immensity of imports
and provides it with a heap of Customs
revenue, which revenue comes in very handy.
The rush of imports (and consequently of
Customs revenue) may be ruinous to local
Industries, but that, it holds, isn’t the Aus-
tralian Government’s business. (Like Pilate
it washes its hands.) (2) The State Gov-
ernments borrow £15,000,000 or £20,000,000
a year in England, because, if they didn t,
the outflow of gold to pay for imports would
presently leave Australia without a copper
or a bob or a bean. They say they are in no
way responsible for the tariff, which causes
the imports, which destroy the industries, and
produce the drain of money, and necessitate
the foreign loans. (So again Pilate, the
heroic disclaimer of all responsibility, as
mentioned in the Scripture, washes his
hands.) (3) The Australian Government
says it is a non-borrowing institution, and
is not accountable for the thriftlessness of
the State Government. (Pilate, having
completed the miserable and improvident
circle, -now washes his tail for a change).
(4) The State Governments invent all manner
of public works, paid for out of loans, in
order to use up the people who can t get
useful employment because of the revenue
tariff, which causes the huge imports, which
create the huge Federal Customs revenue.


Extraordinary Announcement to Agents.
Christmas Edition of
The Bulletin, 1914.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that the
CHRISTMAS NUMBER of “THE
BULLETIN” will be an EXTRA
and SPECIAL ISSUE.
Date of Publication: December 12, 1914.
This SPECIAL NUMBER will con-
tain high-class Stories, Verse and other
Literary Contributions from foremost
Australasian writers. •
The Illustrations will be supplied by
the popular Bulletin artists, and
others in the front rank of the artistic
world.
The Ordinary Issue of The Bulletin
will he published on the usual date.
Agents are requested to note
that, as the Christmas Number of
“The Bulletin” is now going to
press, the orders that reach us from
now on will be treated in order of
priority.
Preference is given, not to the works which
are most wanted, nor to those which will pay
best, but to those which will furnish the
largest number of immediate jobs to boot-
makers and tailors who have been driven out
of their own industries. The Australian
Government may be shocked at this dreadful
misappropriation of the cash which posterity
will have to refund, but it is no more . a
sinner in the matter of the State loan dis-
ease than the States are in the matter of the
Federal importing complaint. .( Here Pilate
washes both his hands and his tail.) (5)
At the same time the non-borrowing Aus-
tralian Government is now helping the States
to borrow, without taking any responsibility
for their habits, or for the way they expend
the proceeds of the lOU, or for the tariff
which makes the lOU at least partly excus-
able. (More wash by Pilate.) (6) The
non-borrowing Australian Government’s
Customs revenue comes, to a great extent,
out of State loans. That is to say, the
flotation of loans enables the imports that
provide the Australian Customs revenue to
be paid for. The Commonwealth puts its
blind eye to the telescope, and professes not
to see that it is living on money cadged at
second-hand and spent, in the absence of
profitable work, on all manner of unpayable
enterprises. (Pilate, in fact, washes him-
self all over.) (7) I hereby propose that
the State Governments should refuse to float
foreign loans to pay for the revenue-tariff
imports which produce the income which
keeps the non-borrowing Australian Govern-
ment in affluence. Then the Australian Gov-
ernment would have to face the situation.
Incidentally, the tariff, the imports, the
loans, the public works and the unemployed
question should be all under one Parlia-
ment. There should be no ghost or spectre
of Divided Control to enable everybody to
profess that he didn’t really do anything.
In short, Pontius Pilate should be hanged,
along with his tail and his wash-basin and
all his paraphernalia and appurtenances.—
Yours, in good faith, Henry Horsecollar.
The Very Dirty Pot and the Compara-
tively Untarnished Kettle.
Melbourne Argus says there have been
Australians who have delighted to scoff
at the Motherland as decadent, and to be-
little her as a usurious money-lender; and
“to idle talk such as they indulged in was
due the firm conviction of nearly all Ger-
mans that, as soon as Great Britain became
engaged in a life-and-death struggle, the
Empire would fall to pieces.” That is the
pot’s talk about the kettle; but the kettle’s
talk about the pot is more convincing. For
instance, to help the Germans to a belief
that the Empire wasn’t very closely bound
together, there was the fact that, encour-
aged by papers like the Argus, Canadian
employers have been publicly advertising in
Montreal, Ottawa, Winnipeg and other
papers: “No English need apply.” There
was tke fact, too, of sedition in Ulster, the
traitors who had advocated civil war hold-
ing mostly the political opinions of the
Argus.. There were also the seditious utter-
ances in. India, and the stupidity of the
conservative Anglo-Indian—who usually
believes as the Argus does —to help the
sedition.. There was also the work of the
Argus itself in opposition to compulsory
service and the establishment of the Aus-
tralian navy. The Argus said that com-
pulsory. service was un-British, and that
Australians who were not prepared to de-
pend on the British navy for sea protection
were disloyal to the dear old Motherland.
Before and after these two reforms became
law, the Argus said that Australia was
delivering itself to Socialists and Disloyalty
and Anarchy. So that if the Kaiser read
the Argus, and in his ignorance believed all
its stupidities, he naturally believed that Aus-
tralia was arming itself for an independence
as absolute as it is now practical.
4k-
A Buzzing Government.
It was characteristic of the Buzz-and-Hurry-
and-Jump State Ministry of New South
Wales that it should have risen last week
to demand authority to buy up—out of loan
°* course —the whole wheat crop of
JN.S.W. at ss. per bushel, good and bad
samples to be chucked together indiscrim-
inately. At first it proposed that its Bill
should be passed at one sitting, because the
community was hanging as usual by the
S u ln Tjf * ts to t^ie P re cipice, and unless
the Holman fly-on-the-wheel got to the res-
cue immediately anything might happen. A
buzzful tendency to. rush to the rescue, lest
all should be lost, is characteristic of Hol-
man and co.. It is their general attitude
that the case is so desperate and the hope of
assistance, apart from them, is so scarce,
that there isn’t really time to consider their
measures. The measures must be taken for
granted, and shoved through beyond the
speed limit, lest the bottom should fall out
or the. universe. In the present case, how-
ever, it was finally decided that the salva-
tion of the universe might wait a day or
two. This is the second time within a
tew weeks that the Holman combination
has dashed into the wheat business—first at
4s. 2d. per bushel, and secondly at ss. per
bushel. Why it should have the wheat
craze so badly it is difficult to say, unless
it has read in some twopenny book of say-
ings that the loaf is the staff of life. The
last-published estimate of the N.S.W. statis-
tician sets forth that the average Cornstalk
?o??, umes annually 2611 b. of meat and fish;
1811 b. of potatoes; 1041 b. of sugar; 29§lb.
of butter and cheese; and 22S|lb. of flour.
(Also about £5 of loans.) Therefore wheat,
out of which flour is made, isn’t the begin-
ning and end of his existence —not by a
long way. It is of less account than
meat and is only a shade more important
than potatoes. Furthermore, the Austra-
lian Government, which has charge of trade
and commerce, has carefully regulated the
of wheat in order to make sure that
the Commonwealth won’t lose its dry bread
through excessive exportation to Britain or
Britain’s allies, so the chances of the wheat
speculator are really a little worse than usual.
Incidentally, it is mentioned that, though
the crops have been rather poor, N.S.W. will
yield enough for its own requirements, and
have . a very fair surplus. As a sort of
side-line the Government which proposes to
buy up a particular crop—and not the most
important one—compulsorily out of loan
money, is offering to supply the farmers
with seed wheat —presumably out of loan
money also. Apparently it sees its way
to float two loans on the strength of one
harvest. But even the most sanguine Gov-
ernment can’t hope just now to raise the
£3,000,000 or so required for the purchase of
the wheat crop, except at a price which will
knock the four feet from under the profit of
the transaction. It has already enough bur-
dens on its hands in the shape of unfinished
railways, short-dated loans falling due, high
rates of interest, overdrafts, deficits, calico
cities and miscellaneous commitments, with-
out sprinting into superfluous responsibilities
of this size. From first to last it is a
curious business. The Government is
pledged to reduction of borrowing, establish-
ment of a sinking fund, decentralisation
(which includes the opening of the long-
shut-up ports), solvent finance, public
ownership of land, and a number of things
which it has quite forgotten. It has prom-
ised, in a sort of way, to construct the
Sydney city railway and the North Shore
bridge. Yet in its incurable Fuss-and-Buzz
fashion it rushes out to become a great loaf
monopolist, regardless of the fact that the
people don’t really live on loaves.
A Dangerous Variety of Patriotism.
Judge Backhouse is reported to have said,
in the course of a case at Sydney Quarter
Sessions: —
Of course, if the disloyal words were said, you
were wrong to hit accused, but it would be natural.
(Laughter.)
It was another example of the unwisdom of
confusing blackguardism with loyalty—an
error into which judges and magistrates all
over Australia, have been falling. In the
first place the jury showed, by its verdict,
that it did not believe the alleged disloyal
words had been used. In brief, it said that
the accused had been attacked for something
else than lack of patriotism. But in any
case the effect of such a pronouncement,
coming from such a source,, amounts to the
straight griffin to the local fighting drunk
that he may safely take the iaw into his own
hands in certain circumstances. A likely
effect will be to produce a crop of the very
misdeeds which the Law most detests. For
example, perjury and conspiracy. The
obvious defence .for the sort of citizen who
makes a hobby of laying people out will be
that the victim spoke favorably of Germany.
His friends will testify readily to the same
effect. It will be easier than the old alibi de-
fence, and a thousand times safer. The
position of the person who is laid out will
be exceptionally unpleasant. He will not
only have to nurse a broken jaw, or some-
thing similar, but he will also stand to be
branded amongst his friends as a pro-
German. About a dozen alleged pro-
Germans have been “disciplined” by un-
authorised private citizens already, and in
every case the magistrate or judge was
avowedly on the side of the assaulter; yet
in fully half of these cases the gravest
doubts existed, by the end of the trials,
whether the injured parties were pro-
Germans at all. The first Police Court
Magistrate or District Court Judge who is
hit under the ear for doing nothing what-
ever, and who on objecting, finds himself
accused by his assailant of having said
“Hoch der Kaiser,” will readjust his views
regarding “wild justice” for suspected dis-
loyalists. This will be all to the good, since
it is an anomaly, as well as a public danger,
that folks in such positions should hold views
of the sort.
♦
As the Lower Order of Gent. One
Views It.
“S. Gee” forwards the Shady Solicitor’s
vade mecurn :—
(1) Never let friendship or sentiment interfere
with business. Always consider your client’s inter-
ests —to the limit of his financial resources. Where
your opponent is influential or there is a prospect of
his putting business in your way, e.g., where he is
an agent or a banker, do not prejudice your client’s .
interests by looking after them too assiduously.
(2) Do not allow your client to khow too much
about the business you have in hand for him. In
the event of his becoming obstreperous, hurl some
legal technicalities at him and wind up by telling
him that he really wouldn’t understand. He will
almost certainly agree, and the shock which he experi-
ences at the size of your subsequent bill will conse-
quently be diminished. If he growls at your bill
even then, blame the out-of-pocket expenses and Gov-
ernment fees, and casually observe that you in reality
net an almost infinitesimal proportion of the amount
he has paid you. He will hardly ever be in a posi-
tion to contradict.
(3) Very great skill is required in the preparation
and obtaining payment of Costs. Sometimes it is
advisable to lump the bill. Otherwise, charge most
for items comprising letters to and attendances on
persons other than your client, as he will be in the
dark about the extent of work involved in those direc-
tions. In the event of your not being paid promptly
there are two courses open. If he has little means or
for some suflicient reason you suspect that no further
business will be forthcoming from him, have no hesi-
tation in immediately suing him, and thereby inci-
dentally piling up further Costs against him. If he
has much means, though not in liquid shape, suggest
the taking of security and charge a substantial rate
of interest—and further incidental Costs.
(4) In all cases consider first the financial status of
(a) your client, (6) your opponent. If you yourself
are independent financially, never work for a client
who is a man of straw. If, on the other hand, you
have not all the cash you need, and are prepared to
run the risk of working for nothing, never refuse a
client whose opponent is worth powder and shot.
Bluff often wins the day.
(5) Never be in a hurry to settle disputes. If your
solicitor antagonist is an honorable person and re-
fuses to take up the same attitude, remember you
hold the key to the situation, and can easily vindi-
cate your position on the ground that you are pre-
senting a bold front to the enemy, and thereby
upholding your client’s best interests. If the other
solicitor is of your way of thinking, so much the
better. The quarrel can be judiciously maintained
for quite a long while, while your purse is replen-
ished. If your client opines that the case is being
strung out, transfer the blame from yourself to The
System. Do not be afraid to denounce The Law as
an ass; a hog; a slow, creeping thing. Such talk
renews confidence. When the matter at issue is finally
finished, you have the satisfaction of knowing that
you have taught your client a most beneficial lesson.
(6) Only arrange settlements as a last resource.
Fighting cases in court means a good advt.—win or
lose. The public begins to hear and talk about you.
Ihe services of a friendly counsel can readily be
obtained, and he can always find a perfectly good and
sufficient excuse for advising the course you desire —
a fight in the first instance, and subsequently an
appeal. More Costs obviously follow.
(7) Widows, children, cockies and dashing young
men are, in general, the best marks.
(8) The church-going habit is worth while, as it
enhances your reputation for respectability. This is
the most important asset to be acquired in connec-
tion with the legal profession. Attendance at
funerals is for similar reasons advisable, and direct
monetary benefits will quickly accrue from the prac-
tice.
(9) If work is slack, make work. This is com-
paratively simple. People from whom you have been
demanding money on behalf of clients can be advised
in a friendly manner (veiled threats can be used
where necessary) to compound with their creditors,
assign their estates or file their schedules; mort-
gagors who are tardy in the matter of paying in-
terest can be molested and put to further expense by
serving notices, etc., on them; matters which are
in reality very simple can always be reduced to
writing on grounds of caution. (For instance, never
let an overdue mortgage run on. Always prepare a
fresh deed.) Remember the man in monetary diffi-
culties can always be safely charged to the extremest
limit; he is not in a favorable position to cavil. In
dealing with a careless client it will sometimes be
found lucrative to lose his deeds or other papers,
having, of course, first made sure that you can lay
the blame on him.
(10) The branch of the law relating to wills is the
most fertile in litigation and Costs, and as such
deserves the most careful study. Don’t be too
anxious about the lucidity of the wills you prepare.
When the testator dies it will mean all the more
work for you, and you can usually shift the blame
for its ambiguity. If, by any chance, you are unable
to manufacture a dispute arising out of the inter-
pretation or construction of a will, take pains to stir
up dissension amongst the beneficiaries under cover
of sedulously looking after each one’s separate in-
terest. This is not a difficult task, and is often the
means of provoking a court case hinging on such
large, comprehensive questions as mental incapacity,
fraud, undue influence, and so forth. Also, a good
deal of easy money can be obtained if, having gained
the confidence of the testator, you generously suggest
that he make you his executor. If he agrees, you
subsequently obtain the usual commission, put in a
claim for a substantial amount of Costs in connection
with work done for testator during his lifetime, and
take full advantage of a provision which you will have
inserted in the will stipulating for the payment to
you of professional and other charges incident to the
winding-up of the estate. It is very handy to be in
the position of one who passes his own accounts.
(11) In dealing with shady clients foster their
shady instincts, and suggest to them shady ways and
means which you will take good care they avail
themselves of personally. Then charge them what-
ever you like, and, should they complain, casually
mention a few of the things you know about them.
Some Incompetents and a Portrait
Gallery.
The protest of a man in the business:—
The Historic Memorials Committee (consisting of
three Federal politicians, a house decorator and G. V.
F. Mann, of the deplorable Sydney Gallery) adopted
this motion last week with reference to Lambert’s
portrait of George Reid:—
The Board is of opinion that its representative in
London should be informed that the work is parti-
cularly unsatisfactory, and a caricature upon the dis-
tinguished gentleman it is supposed to represent. It
has met with much criticism, which is likely to bring
discredit upon the artists and the Board. For these
reasons it is not considered advisable to exhibit the
painting publicly at present.
Certain news-reporters in Melbourne went one better
by damning the whole Gallery.
As regards the Reid picture, the only discredit it
is likely to bring is upon the committee, in so far
as it operates to betray the latter’s incompetence to
discuss works of art. The portrait selected for its
abuse is a technical masterpiece. Both paint and
drawing are superb. Let the members ask, say,
Bernard Hall to take them before the left side of
the figure and to explain why that passage, among
many others, is a thing of which Australia may, with
some reason, be proud. Also, let them listen to
Hall for a few moments on the subject of draughts-
manship, on still life and its conventions in a work of
the sort, and on the picture generally.
So far as the criticism of the Gallery as a whole is
concerned, there is this to be said. The official por-
trait qua portrait is almost never great and rarely
fine technically. The great official portraits of the
world could almost be numbered on the 10 fingers
of a committeeman’s two hands. They are
such things as the Velasquez Pope in the
Barbarini at Rome, and the Philip IV., and
perhaps the Pietro Longhi in London. The
well-recognised reason is that there is always an
unbridgeable gap between the official and the artist.
Masterpieces are only painted in those conditions of
natural intimacy which enabled Whistler to create
the portraits of Carlyle and of his mother, or Der-
went Wood to make his bronze of Henry James.
It would be as stupid to seek for the higher aesthetic
qualities in official work as in didactic; in neither
case is aestheticism the prime issue, and art is either
done for its own sake or it fails. The prime interest
in every National Portrait Gallery is the historical.
If such a gallery gets a picture which, like the
George Reid, is not only interesting historically, but
which is also important as the work of a fine crafts-
man, it is lucky. It has done very well if it merely
gets a collection of inoffensively painted records.
As a working proposition, it is not suitable that
politicians should pronounce upon pictures, and it is
not honest of the press to charge a penny for itself
as an art expert unless it is able to deliver the goods.
Adelaide possesses a magistrate who seems
to be a trifle belated with liis law. A lady
who arrived here by steamer was in a condi-
tion which aroused the attention of the
captain, and he had her medically examined.
Apparently the medical examination didn’t
diminish the captain’s attention or suspicion ;
but the Customs Department, being a mirror
of chivalry, said nothing unpleasant about
the passenger’s health. Instead, it sub-
jected her to the education test, and ruled
her off because of her inability to write 50
words in the Swedish language. It was
the most polite way imaginable to pass out
an arrival who was liable to objection. But
the Adelaide magistrate howled considerably,
and said that he didn’t think the education
test applied to people from England; he
thought it could be used only in the case of
Asiatics. A magistrate surely ought to know
more than that. The original idea was to
exclude colored folk and diseased persons.
The British Colonial Office, which was
Joseph Chamberlain in those days, de-
clared that no distinction must be made
between colored people and white people.
As a concession to his susceptibilities it was
enacted that an education test in “some
European language” might be applied to
everybody. It was a pleasant piece of hypo-
crisy, yet it satisfied Chamberlain. In
addition there were clauses permitting the
exclusion of criminals and diseased indi-
viduals. The education test has never been
applied to a European unless he (or she)
was notoriously criminal or diseased. In
these cases a hopelessly-polite Customs De-
partment has made a habit of shutting out
the applicant, not because of his or her re-
pute or condition, but because of inability to
write out a passage from some Basque or
Bulgarian or Manx or Cretan author. It
is a kindly swindle, and any Adelaide magis-
trate should close the other eye when he
meets it. Even a leper has his feelings, as
was once remarked by a man who sat on
the North Queensland Bench, and many a
leper would rather be sent back through his
failure to pass an examination in Magyar
poetry than be rejected with a bald and
brutal certificate concerning his skin com-
plaint.
In fining the Newcastle miners’ union and
its officers £2500, Justice Heydon (N.S.W.)
did the only thing possible. The men had
defied the law, and nothing remained for
him but to make a show of vindicating its
majesty. But no one can make the Federa-
tion pay a farthing. As one result of the
efforts of the old Wade party to emasculate
Unionism, the Industrial Union of former
days—a body which had powers of holding
and managing property, and generally con-
ducting corporate business, as large as those
of any company—was transformed into the
merest shadow. It became something with
neither powers nor responsibilities worth
mentioning. The Federation which has just
been fined £2500 can no more be arrested
than a disembodied spirit. It can no more
be distrained on tl an a southerly buster.
Justice Heydon himself decided, the . other
day, that it couldn’t subscribe to the coming
Labor daily. About the only legal power it
possesses is the right to sue its members for
subscriptions, and that is doubtful, inasmuch
as it has not yet been tested. So far as the
officers are concerned they may perhaps be
gaoled if the fines inflicted on them are not
paid; but as for punishing the union,
Charles Gregory Wadf has rendered the
Law utterly impotent. What a curse it is
to be dull and mischievous!
♦
With a stout nerve the Moving Pictures
Combine the other day asked Minister for
Customs Tudor to let in all films free—Ger-
man with the rest. The Minister was told
that the industry of picture-producing in Aus-
tralia was a poor thing and of practically no
importance; but a vast silence was main-
tained as to where the blame lay. No men-
tion was made of the fact that the Combine
had not only never offered any reasonable
encouragement to the Australian producer,
but had strenuously discouraged that much-
handicapped person. There was a time when
the hat-making industry was of no import-
ance, too. But Australia had the heads to
wear the hats and the material to make the
hats of; and, instead of the absence of an
Australian hat-making industry being
accepted as an argument against a duty, it
was regarded as the best of all reasons why
there should be one. The position is exactly
the same with regard to pictures. We have
the people to buy them. We have the
material to make them. In those circum-
stances, since we haven’t got them, the plain
course for a Government pledged to Protec-
tion is to impose a duty and get them—just
as we imposed a duty and got hats.
Dear Bulletin, —Evidently, since our men
made good their landing in German Papua,
they’ve been lotus-eating in the shade of the
sheltering palms, for letters from them
bemoan the inactivity and monotony of iheir
life. Now, as there isn’t much likelihood of
anyone coming in force to expel them, it
seems to me that a considerate number of
the troops mfight be given very effective
employment to their own advantage, and
ours—to theifs because in order to keep fit
in that climate one must be on the move.
Here’s my suggestion. In no place is it quite
a hundred miles from beach to beach across
Papua. Yet the hinterland is practically
unknown; and the Administration has its
work cut out, with the resources at its dis-
posal, to patrol the districts already pacified.
It would be a crowning achievement for our
troops, co-operating with the External Affairs
officials, to penetrate the interior with a
series of connected exploring patrols. Pro-
perly conducted, these should bring into touch
with us probably 300,000 strange natives,
who at present are principally engaged in
putting their neighbors into their stomachs.
The display of power would impress these
natives with the futility of opposing the
white man, and thereafter it would be fairly
plain sailing for the Administration. Such
a performance in itself would be worth
almost as much as the Expedition has cost to
date. —Your Brown Cousin, Lagani-Namo.


ftodvco of ficofUtd
GAELIC WHISKY
THE OLD SMUGGLER
ǻ
M
cm
¥‘
I rK
GAELIC
The Perfect Whisky
... in ...
The Perfect Bottle.
DISTILLED IN THE
HIGHLANDS of SCOTLAND.
&
m
DT
“ii
B O ON
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
Swift & Company litd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney,
Kaiser William on the Road to Perdi-
tion—So Far as He Has Gone.
Cold weather has fallen on Europe, and
there is talk of the old habit of going into
winter quarters. In the days of the
Hundred Years’ War, and the Thirty Years’
War and the Seven Years’ War, winter
quarters were a matter of course. So
they were in the United States War of
Independence. Then Napoleon I. invented
military hustle, and for years wars wei’e
swift and sudden. Now they have grown
beyond Napoleon’s comprehension. Hulk-
ing nations drag out armies greater, than
Bonaparte ever dreamed of. He hulked
considerably, but never did he hulk like this.
The battle line is longer than any perspective
he ever saw in the visions of his head upon
his bed. The bill runs to as much in a week
as he spent on a‘campaign. There are no
sudden shocks and routs and disturbances and
theatrical doings—only an elephantine plod-
ding of armed communities over a frontier
which spreads from here to the latter end of
things, or from moonxise to the reddened
tail-end of the sunset. There is pretty well
all the money and credit on earth with which
to finish the argument. There is all the
time between now and Judgment Day to
settle it in. All the nations that amount to
anything are in it. Old men and middle-
aged men are dying out of the wax*. Children
are being born into it, and by-and-bye they
may grow up and marry into it. The war
loan has become so enormous that nobody
really cares whether it becomes a billion
more. On the Franco-Belgian border there
is now a skeleton to every square yard • or
thereabouts, and an extra skeleton doesn’t
signify. So there is talk of a tendency on
the part of the armies to sit down and fi-eeze
amicably for a month or two, and to resume
sudden death at the old address when the
grass is green again and the apple-blossoms
are gay on the trees, and the bumble-bee
emerges from his seclusion, and buzzes
at the cannon’s mouth. There are even
reports about British soldiers and officers
being granted leave of absence, so that they
may eat the boiled Christmas indigestible. in
the bosom of the family. But on the Russian
border the winter is likely to be a time of
great bitterness. When the ground is so hard
that the German can’t dig trenches with his
usual facility, and the swamps and the shal-
low lakes are frozen so that the Muscovite
artillery can skid across them, and the rough-
shod Cossack horse can skate over great dis-
tances —then the Bear begins to fly around
in real earnest. Possibly he will have the
war mostly to himself for a while, barring
Anglo-Turkish scraps on the Egyntian border.
Steadily and persistently he is crumpling up
the forces of that Austrian Emperor that no
one ever hears about these days. Certain
Balkan States which have hitherto kept out
of the disturbance are bee-inning to turn over
in their sleep and remark that, unless they
join the Allies in good time, they may be out
of the division of the plunder when Austria
breaks up. France has advanced £800,000
to Greece, so presumably Greece has inti-
mated that if it only had the price of a cart-
ridge or two it might do something The
British Government has doubled the income-
tax. German authorities have called upon
the population of East Prussia to rise as one
lurking brigand aixd shoot Russiari soldiers
from behind trees and hedges. This doesn’t
exactly square with their doings in Belgium,
where whole towns were burned on the mere
suspicion that a Belgian civilian had fired a
pea-ififle at the invader, but the German
fights “all in.” He advocates kicking “in
holts” and biting the enemy when he is
down. It is raining heavily in the neighbor-
hood of Erzerum, and a bogged Russian is
pursuing a swamped Turk to the best of his
ability. A learned German px-ofessor has
put on his spectacles and estimated that the
war is now costing £7,500.000 per day. Ger-
man submarines are being brought by train
to the Belgian coast, and calculations are
still being issued to the effect that when the
Germans capture Calais their big guns can
hold the Strait of Dover and cover an in-
vasion of England. The great trouble seems
to lie in the difficulty of capturing Calais.
Apart from these few trifles it has been a
quiet week.
Under one of the Acts which Attorney-
General Hughes recently pushed right
through without halting for refreshments,
the affairs of the Continental Rubber and
Tyre people were the other day handed. over
to a receiver. The co., which is nominally
Australian, is in 5000 shares, of which 4997
i r !h.” r abouts *are held in Germany; and
wnen wires passed inquiring about rates of
exchange, and when, moreover, letters were
intercepted in which the “Australian” mana-
ger deplored that there weren’t 12 or IS
Emdens hereabouts, the Commonwealth
thought it a fair thing to be suspicious. In-
cidentally. the naturalised Australian who
deplored that there weren’t 12 or 18 Emdens
in these waters was a German-born captain
in the Vic. Automobile Corps, and in that
capacity assisted, more or less, in the mili-
tary topographical survey of Victoria. There
seems to be a large-sized hint for future use
sticking out just here.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “H.M.S. Pinafore”
Criterion “Seven Keys to Bahlnati”
Palace “A Romance in Ireland”
Adelphi “The Woman Pays”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Girl in the Taxi”
Royal “The Yellow Ticket”
King’s “Sweet Nell of Old Drury”
Princess’s “The Kelly Gang”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Bijou Fuller-Brcnnan Vaudeville
Olympia & National Hoyt’s Pictures
Esplanade The Green Dandies
♦
“The Pirates of Penzance,” who set sail
on Saturday night for a brief cruise of one
week at Her Majesty’s (Sydney), are now
hull down on the horizon, and will probably
be safe in their cave before the leisurely
week-end reader settles down to his
Bulletin. Ruth Lincoln (Mabel) is the
bright star of the present production. There
is a springlike freshness about her clear top
notes, and she is decidedly winsome, especi-
ally in her second-act duet with Frederic
(Edward McKeown). There is honey and
oil in Frederic’s voice, and starch in his
acting. Frank Wilson gives a youthful
interpretation of the Pirate King; Charles
Walenn makes a trim little Major-General
whose humor might be drier; Albert Ivav-
anagh is quite comfortable in the rich part
of the Sergeant; and Ethel'Morrison is a
stately and melodious Ruth. “Trial by
Jury,” which follows the brief-lived
“Pirates,” introduces Pearl Ladd as the fair
singing plaintiff. She is a gracious spectacle
in her white wedding veil, and charms the
court quietly. Albert Kavanagh is an
effective Usher. But the heartiest word of
praise goes to the sanctimonious-looking
juryman, with eyeglasses perched far down
his nose, who steals the fainting juryman’s
watch, wearing all the time a look of pained
amazement. “Pinafore” is due on Saturday.
** * *
After last week’s Bulletin had gone to
press, Sydney Repertory Theatre continued
its patriotic season with two performances
of Arthur Adams’s three-act comedy,
“Mrs. Pretty and the Premier.” This bright
trifle, which, as the author tells us, was
constructed in a soirit of cold commercialism,
was recently produced by Melbourne Reper-
tory Theatre, and the judgment of this
paper’s old-established Melbourne critic was
printed on this page on October 1. Miss
Grace Stafford, an amateur of considerable
charm, was the Mrs. Pretty of the Sydney
production, and she had the audience with
her all the way. Norman Zions, as the self-
made Premier whom Mrs. Pretty eventually
captures, was hardly rugged enough, but his
performance was creditable. Hector Hamil-
ton provided a smooth study of a precise
young secretarv; and Grant Cooner fairly
earned his laughs as the old Parliamentary
messenger who dodders in and out. The
Australian manager in search of an Austra-
lian-made play (if there is such a person on
the premises) would probably give Mrs.
Protty his earnest consideration. But the
odds are that he would suggest, as a cold-
blooded trader in drama, various alterations
and amendments, including the excision of
the scene where the self-made and allegedly
resourceful Bill asks his girl-secretary for
Chorus of policemen in “ PIRATES OF F
PENZANCE ,” AT SYDNEY HER
MAJESTY'S.
hints on proposing. And no doubt the
author, as another cold-blooded trader, would
only be too happy to make the alterations.
That’s the best of having two trades-
men bargaining amicably together. The
fire breaks out and the house blows up when
the dramatic tradesman with the money col-
lides with some unreasonable person who
wants to burden him with art instead of
artifice.
On Friday and Saturday, the bill con-
sisted of three one-act plays—“ The Busi-
ness Girl” (comedy), “Trapped” (condensed
tragedy) and “Gertie’s Glad Eye” (farce).
“Trapped,” with an ingenious plot, a sombre
bush setting and a good “curtain,” proved the
strongest item, and an insistent call tor
“Author!” brought forth D. H. Souter. In
the midst of improbability, May Eldndge, as
the Business Girl, was human and attractive
in a blouse and skirt. James Stokes was
suitably diabolical in red light as the hypo-
chondriac bushman of “Trapped ; and
Essie Patterson, in brief white garments,
audaciously acted the half-grown kid who
tells her elder sister how to work the Eye.
* # *
Baldpate Inn, that delightful mountain
health resort, is still crowded with summer
guests. Keys can be obtained at Sydney
Criterion.
* * si: *
After a visit to the Sydney “Royal” art
show: —
The eye is caught at once by Lister’s work. His
two best are Nos. 127 and 197—“ The Silvery Margin
of the Sea” and “Sydney Harbor from Balmoral
Heights.” Both bear the convincing stamp of public
approval in the form of the Red Seal. In “Getting
Ready” (No. 115) Lister furnishes in water-color
another study of his much-discussed “Loading the
Jinker” (No. 54). Each is a rendering of doings in
the big-timber country, and is treated in the familiar
method of its author. In No. 54 Lister has not
THE PIRATE KING AND ANOTHER.
THE PIRATE KING (Frank Wilson):
"But many a king on a first-class throne,
If he wants to call his crown his own,
Must manage somehow to get through
More dirty work than ever I do,
Though I am a Pirate King."
allowed himself to be daunted by large canvases.
Charles Bryant’s “Morning Glow” (No. 46) is a
typical academic interpretation of a Devonshire coastal
landscape. He infuses charm into a somewhat worn
formula. “Torno” (No. 77) is a North Italian lake
scene by Tom Roberts. These hot days it makes one
feel cool and anxious to be there; and that was pro-
bably what the painter intended. .“Blue and Grey”
(50) and “Through the Trees” (63), by James R.
Jackson, are attempts to get that difficult quality,
“air.” They, too, call up longings for the coolness
of their wind-swept beaches. “Pastorale” (51), by
J. Muir Auld, is a quaint Austral-classical fantasy of
gums, goats and distant mountains in an atmospheric
haze. In “A Veil of Bush Fire Smoke” (No. 98)
Alfred Coffey embarks on an interpretation of the
misty hazes' of a typical Northern Rivers valley,
smoke-swept with the stifling mists of a bush fire.
In the water-color room Charles Tindall’s “From
Berry’s Bay Heights” (No. 188) is slightly ambitious
in size for his medium, but nevertheless he imparts
a quality of wash. A. J. Fischer s “A Bush Saw-
mill” is rather marred by a slightly architectural
feeling about the drawing of it. Evelyn Chapman’s
“Pastel Study” (No. 156) vibrates amusingly. Finally,
amongst the sculpture one is arrested by the bust of
Maggie Papakura, by Nelson Illingworth (No. 263).
Recalling that she had the reputation of a breaker of
hearts, one marvels at the susceptibility of man,
though maybe she once looked not so Rhadamanthine.
Camille, who is, in liigher-class bellow-
drama, what Little Willie is in the ground
floor and basement division, has been miss-
ing from Sydney for five or six years. Last
Saturday she happened again at the Adelphi,
and having paid her board in advance for
one week only, will die in her five-bob-a-week
apartment for but two more nights.
“Camille,” Adelphi edition, has several ad-
vantages. In the first place Vera Remee is
the only lady within recent years who has
died of consumption on the Sydney stage
with a fighting weight of under 15 or 20
stone. Secondly, there being no act with
more than one scene, the Adelphi’s murder-
ous blacking-out lights are on the retired
list for the week. Thirdly, George Cross
has made love to the heroine so many times
that he has got into a groove; so those who
find, half-way through, that they do not
care for “Camille,” can watch Cross making
love and fancy they’re at “The Worst Wench
in Worcester” or “The Gay Girl of the
Choir,” and all will be well. As before men-
tioned to-morrow is the last night of
“Camille.” “The Woman Pays” is on the
bill for the week beginning Saturday.
“The Bold Sojer Boy” will fall back from
the front on Saturday, and General Allen
Doone will move up with his forces to fire off
“A Romance in Ireland” at the Palace
(Sydney). He has brought the piece into
action previously, and those upon whom it
was directed seemed to enjoy the operation
immensely.
If being able to look cross-eyed, sing
through one’s nose and fire off ammunition
that other comedians have used already are
evidences of a good vaudeville turn, then
Noble and Brooks at Sydney Tivoli are
providing a first-class performance. If those
things are not evidences of high quality,
Noble a,nd Brooks are a very ordinary couple.
Miss Davenport’s statuary, Mooney and Hol-
bein Rickaby and Florence Smithson are
also’ on show; and all of them are worth
while. Next Saturday the Tivoli Follies
will provide something that is alleged, on the
unimpeachable word of the playbill, to be quite
new. And as Jack Cannot is among the
Follies, the word of the playbill may be more
faithful even than usual.
Thinly disguised as a romance of Mor-
avia, where an English girl greets her
foreign fiancb as “Mein liebling,” and
is told that she is improving in
her knowledge of Russian, “The Yellow
Ticket” was staged at Melbourne Royal on
Saturday. A full house found it a lurid
melodrama, conventional in all respects save
the Ticket motive, and terminating in a
shockingly poor joke which reduced the seri-
ous Yankee journalist to the level of a Yid-
disher comedian, and is not calculated to pass
for humor outside of the United States. “The
Yellow Ticket” lasts for two hours only, and
then has to have the assistance of two weari-
some intervals. It is overloaded with talk,
and its plot (apart from the Ticket) recalls
two a,ncient melodramas and one modern one.
The governess, proved to have “pinched” a
dead girl’s name, is a variation of Mercy
Merrick, in Wilkie Collins’s “The New Mag-
dalen.” The same heroine, freeing herself
from the clutches of Baron Audrey (in Act
2) is La Tosca with Baron Scarpia. And
the third act bears a passing resemblance to
the police-office scene in “Within the Law.”
Taken as a whole, the play is short, stale
and unconvincing.
* * * *
But it is at least well acted, as melodrama
entertainment goes. Miss Starr, lacking the
appearance and artless manner for the part
of Marie, puts ginger into her kn-g speech of
explanation, and is fairly well equal to her
tragic interview with the Baron. Cyril
Mackay’s method of being wicked is not out
of keeping with his intensely theatrical char-
acter. Boyd Irwin and Winter Ball are
impressive in a quiet way—except that the
former has to swear his uncle died of appen-
dicitis after being murdered with a hatpin.
Milward on Saturday was a complete success
as the glorified Yankee journalist until he
spoke his last line, and that wasn’t his fault,
anyhow. Morrison, Geo. Chalmers, jun.,
Robert Whyte and others, in minor jobs, did
good work. Styan was well made up for an
unthankful part, and Miss Soper made a
pleasingly tame English girl, considering that
her feebleness was mostly thrust upon her by
a palpably anti-British dramauA.
>;« $ . sfc $
A well-dressed revival of “Sweet Nell of
Old Drury” at Melbourne King’s is again
exhibiting Nellie Stewart in the old, hand-
some array of graces and laces and feathered
hat. Nellie is still physically suggestive of
the feminine loveliness that goes with Nuts
and wine, and her voice continues to retain
its humorous notes and prettily artificial
undertones. Only here and there has her
style lost some of its youthful buoyancy, with
the result that she now presents a rather
lazy and comfortable picture of Charles’s
sprightly wench. Charles, as played by
Clarence Blakiston, is a quiet sinner of
subdued raiment, and seems disposed to
shun the limelight and creep away to mope
on a secret grief. Moreover, he is not strik-
ingly impressive about the legs, being ap-
parently unwilling to risk the mild untruth
of a padded calf in the interests of sym-
metry and a kingly bearing. Vivian
Edwards, as the terrible Lord Jeffreys, works
hard to illustrate the character with lurid
scowl and bellowdramatic behavior; but the
scowl, as a rule, is out of drawing, and the
behavior too garish to score success. Lewis
Willoughby, as Sir Roger Fairfax, makes no
departure from the methods he adopted in
the part of Du Barry’s sweet young man.
Forde is a cringing informer Lacy; and
William Ladd and Stewart Clyde as Lords
Lovelace and Rochester are two perfectly
beautiful paroxysms of seventeenth century
tailoring. Miss Nancy e Stewart (Lady
Vernon) shows better histrionic form than
Miss Keogh (Lady Castlemaine) and Miss
Lawrence (Duchess of Portsmouth), who
both seem about a grade below professional
standards. The scenery and appointments
are excellent, but the thinness of the inci-
dental music suggests that the orchestra has
been attacked by General Retrenchment and
a battery of machine guns.
THE YELLOW TICKET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Now, Sweet Marie was a Jewish maid
Who booked herself for a harlot’s trade,
Though she never had kissed a fellow;
A ticket she took (this tale is sad)
In order to reach her dying dad —
And the ticket she took was Yellow.
To save herself from a life of shame
The simple maiden changed her name,
The name on the Yellow list;
And Sweet Marie, ere the play began,
Had won the love of a brave young man —
An American journalist.
She mashed this member of the press,
In her character of governess;
On wedding her was his heart bent.
But a Baron bold, with his hair a-curl,
And base designs on the dear young girl,
Was boss of the “Cop” department.
He schemed to bring the maid to grief,
And justify her Yellow brief
(Blush not at these recitals) ;
In vain he breathed his vows of sin;
She armed herself with a Hng hatpin,
And tickled him in the vitals.
Oh, had she gone to a colder clime,
To expiate her righteous crime,
Her life had been cut shorter;
But when the “cops” seized Sweet Marie,
A hero came and set her free;
That’s so, you bet! And who was he?
The American press reporter.
VICTORIA.
O.K.


RED
«niel Crawfords
Scotch WiskV
L s'-■/-
G%
%
STAR
insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Pitt & King Streets, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch : 50 Queen Street, Melbourne, s. j. fowler, Manager.
Queensland Branch : 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane, j. a. watson, Manager.
FIRE, ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
’Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
With “The Kelly Gang” in view, Melbourne
Princess’s management is giving them -No
Mother to Guide Her” for one week only.
The horror in question is so far over the
odds that it touches the limit, and the limit
recoils from its touch. The trouble centres
in the absurdity of Beckett, who commits
mesmerism on the virtuous heroine, and pro-
poses to marry the Dangerous Woman of the
drama for her money’s sake. She, for her
part, has an unaccountable yearning for the
love of a lugubrious missionary, and an itch-
ing desire to recover some long-lost letters
from a bloke named Bill Bunce, who keeps
them in a tin box under ’is bloomin’ bed.
When Bill is extra-full of beer he reads these
letters; but one day he sobers up and sells
them for three ’underd auid to the lady wot
the missionary ain’t got no use for. Then
everybody walks across the Old Brackin
Bridge in the moonlight, and before the mes-
merist’s subject can commit suicide the Dan-
gerous Woman chucks her off the bridge,
whereupon the missionary falls into the
river of his own accord. Owing, however,
to the letters in the tin box the mystery of
the Motherless Bairn is cleared up, and the
Dangerous Woman turns out to be the
bairn’s very own mother, whilst the mes-
merist gets what is due to him, and the wages
of Bill is everlasting beer. The drama is
very creditably acted and staged, notwith-
standing that the author ought to be court-
martialled and shot. Perhaps he will get his
deserts from “The Kelly Gang” next Satur-
day.
“The Girl in the Taxi” continues to cater
for the frivolous, at Her Majesty’s (Mel-
bourne), and the orchestra is still a trifle
too loud for some of the soloists.
v $ *!*
Gregan McMahon starts a 15th season of
Repertory plays at Melbourne Athenaeum
Hall on December 5. This time Beatrice
Day will appear as leading lady in both pro-
ductions —firstly, “The Philanderer,” by Ber-
nard Shaw; and, secondly, “Peter’s Mother,”
which the Brough-Fleming co. produced in
Sydney some years ago.
** * *
The most arresting of the new artists at
Melbourne Bijou are Clinton and Beatrice,
two clever markswomen who have been found
guilty of sharpshooting with intent to com-
mit a bull’s-eye. Sterling and Love make a
small stir with their humorous rhapsody,
“Discord and Harmony”; and Johnny
Osborne, late of the J. C. Williamson forces,
holds attention for a few happy moments.
Les Warton, long the professional brother of
the deceased Irving Sayles, is now shouting
the same sort of songs that he hurled at his
partner’s head under brighter auspices.
Ernest Pitcher continues to describe hyaiself
as “The Big Mug” without just cause, and
Andrews and Dent are presenting themselves
in a piano-and-violin turn that sounds like
Wagner expressing his annoyance.
At the Melbourne Tivoli this week the
aerial Lesters—three gents and a lady—are
devoting themselves to their hobby of hang-
ing in inverted positions from trapezes and
looped supports. Every member of the party
does something clever, and all contribute to
an unusual band performance, which is spec-
tacularly striking, but quite unmentionable
in a musical way. Alfredo, the newly
appointed vagabond violinist, doesn’t scrape
the catgut in vain; but the patter of Gilbert
and Ericson is the piffle of circus clowns
watered down for a children’s matinee.
Wright and Dietrich continue to make sweet
noises, singly or together; and Fatima is on
the point of departing with the wobbly
Turkish dances of uncertain meaning.
* * * *
Frank Bradley. Ethel Dane (Mrs. Cyril
Keightley) and Beaumont Smith, being all
South Australians, got a great welcome on
returning to Adelaide with “The Glad Eye,”
and gave a bir “reception” to celebrate it.
Completely immoral in theory, but quite
innocent in detail, the French farce has
done unexpectedly big business. With the
Tivoli closed, the King’s goes stronger than
ever. Henri French is back with his quaint
foolishness; also Dorothy Harris, Ted Stan-
ley and Williams, and Warner—mostly on
the vocal or musical side. The magnetic
Melba has managed to fill 4be Exhibition for
a guinea concerts—the mob allowed to enter
for a mere five shillings—in aid of Red
Cross funds.. The Dandies are going well
in the open air: Collins and Brown (brothers,
really) dancing, with Marguerite Leroy;
Katie Cheekett (an Adelaide girl) singing;
Cutlibert Rose monologuing. Also there is
the new Hippodrome garden, also open, un-
pretending but bright, and mixing variety
with pictures. The all-picture houses rely
mostly on war.
Young Beaufort Burdekin, of Sydney—a
son of the late M.P. who for years kept
Parkes supplied with small change—has just
taken his degree at Oxford, and should by
this time be at the front, or thereabouts. He
got a commission in the Royal Artillery
some weeks back. His original idea was to
become a barrister, but the war changed his
plans. He was a distinguished oar, amongst
other things.
AT POVERTY POINT.
The mummer is abandoning the stolen
jewellery and breach-of-promise methods of
advertising, and is adanting herself to the
grim necessities of war. After Miss Kate
Holbrook had finished “The Woman’s lie-
cruiting Song,” which concludes, “We shall
cheer you, thank you, kiss ybu, when you
come back again,” “a soldier, bearing traces
of having been wounded, stepped up and chal-
lenged Miss Holbrook with the remark, ‘l’ve
come for my reward !’ Miss Holbrook, seiz-
ing the situation, immediately leant over the
platform rails and kissed the blushing sol-
dier amid the delighted cheers of the audi-
COURTING IN "RTIAL
BY JURY."
ence. For the part of the soldier supers, are
obtainable in London at sixpence a night
and their beer; but a bluslier like this one
might get as much as ninepence if he held
out for it.
“Melb”: Military officers have just had
the painful duty of witnessing a dress re-
hearsal of “The Yellow Ticket,” to make
sure that it is not offensive to our ally
Russia. Reminds me somehow of a chari-
table commiiSie meeting I once attended.
They were sampling whisky to make sure
that it would be good enough for the pore
patients.
“Harrison O.”: Muriel Starr nowanights
suffers from the twin delusions that brevity
is the soul of elocution and that the quick-
ness of the tongue deceives the intellect. As
an example of histrionic hustle her per-
formance in “The Yellow Ticket” is the
limit. We get from her hurried remarks
like, “Olforgotforgiveme,” and mutilated
observations such as “It’s privige me so
stinguish man.” The Yankee stage-people I
have met who have known how to speak
can be counted on the noses of one foot.
They gargle, jabber, syncopate, or provide
linked nasality long drawled out. Every
time I listen to U.S. actors I am reminded
of the juvenile essayist who alleged: “In
America they put criminals to death by elo-
cution.” But I don’t think everybody need
practise to be an executioner.
“Mrs. Pretty”; The anonymous author of
“Mary Martin,” produced at the Repertory
Theatre, Sydney, during its Australian week,
takes three risks that are usually fatal in
the drama. He brings upon the stage a
Catholic priest, speaking with an Irish
accent, who is neither* a farcical character
nor a villain. The author’s brave effort to
depict a serious and sincere priest arguing
about religion is successful. But his failure
lies in the other two forlorn hopes. He
brings on to the stage a poet and Little
Freddie. A stage-poet must wear long hair,
this one wears a bald patch. A stage poet
must be caricatured for an audience; this
one, who is not. only a poet but a dramatist,
insists upon being taken seriously. Really,
in Ins very ordinary appearance and his quite
matter-of-fact boots, he is rather like the
poets who every Thursday throng the
environs of The Bulletin office. But the
audience demands something as picturesque
and impossible as Hugh McGrae. Little
Freddie is a danger even in a professional
production. The amateur Little Freddie is
a horror, even when h. is a she. The author
of “Mary Martin” not only lightly disregards
this danger, but he makes Little Freddie the
centre of the action, and publicly calls atten-
tion to Freddie’s noble brow and other early
marks of genius. Unfortunately Little
Freddie is obviously bored by the whole pro-
ceedings.
Reported from Belgium that, among other
things (cathedrals, etc.) smashed by the
Germans were a number of “His Master’s
Voice” gramophones and records, which were
en route to the hospitals, to supply the dis-
abled Atkins with music. Either the cul-
tured enemy mistook the gramophone for a
new species of machine gun, or the beastly
things made the mistake of telling him
straight off that it was a long way to Tip-
perary.
“C. Ockney” : That well-approved “legiti-
mate” artiste, Ethel Irving, has returned to
the light-opera stage, where first she caught
the limelight. She is appearing in her
original part (Madame Sophie) in a revival
of the all-British musical comedy, “The Coun-
try Girl,” at Daly’s Theatre, London.
George Ed ward es, the managing-director of
Daly’s, has put many thousands of pounds
into the pockets of German and Austrian
composers, but that's all over. He has only
recently been released from Bad Nauheim,
at which spa he was recruiting his health
at the beginning of the war. Said he, when
he set foot again in neutral territory: “I
have had an awful time. English visitors at
Bad Nauheim were insulted, jeered at, and
abused even by the waiters in hotels.” So,
as far as Daly’s, the Gaiety and Adelphi are
concerned, Germany has put its pot on.
“J.F.H.”: Oscar Asclie’s “Mameena” is
not much of a play, but it is a remarkably
realistic representation of Zulu
life, character and savagery in
Cetewayo’s time. Neither Oscar
nor Lily Brayton have any acting
opportunities worth mentioning.
Herbert Grimwood, who was. in
Australia with the Asches, has the
best acting rdle —a wizard or medi-
cine-man, whose weird doings are
shuddersome and thrilling. Oscar
is a big, masterful Zulu warrior,
who creates a bit of a sensation by
his lack of costume. The whole
kit consists of a strip apparently
cut for a greenhide belt.
“M.P.A.” : “S.TJ3.” supplies a very inter-
esting par. (B. 12/11/’! 4) concerning
the “in and out” form of Tom Kelly, the
tale-pitcher on the Rickards circuit. A per-
former naturally varies in presenting a turn
at a music-hall, but audiences vary more.
For two years I have been touring Australia
with pictures and a lecture appealing to
Irish sentiment. I have drawn my audi-
ences from people in sympathy with the
show. Still, with that advantage, three
successive audiences have rarely been alike.
In Perth I talked in the Queen’s Hall for
six nights, and then followed with six nights
at Fremantle Town Hall. Sometimes the
house cheered when I spoke of O’Connell and
Parnell, or laughed at an old stock yarn about
the Devil’s Punchbowl at Killarney. Other
times I seemed to be merely tempering a cold
silence with hot air. Stand in the wings at
a mtisic-hall and the inevitable question put
by one performer to another is “How are
they to-night?” Some nights a whole pro-
gramme of a dozen acts will go for nothing,
so to speak, and another evening the tamest
act on the bill will get a big hand. Take
the one-night stands when a show is playing
to different people every night. In one town
the house is dead as mutton, and the man-
agement and performers are called thieves
and robbers. Next night the show is
acclaimed the best ever. If there is a reci-
procity of sympathy between the performer
and the audience the turn is bound to score;
but you can’t get it every time. For Kelly
to put up six top scores in six he would
have to be every time at the top of his form,
and each audience would have to be in full
sympathy with his style of work. He would
most likely get the most even results in Lon-
don, at one of the good halls, where per-
formers are very seldom enthusiastically re-
ceived, and, on the other hand, never “get
the bird.” The fact that the audience must
do its share to make an act or performer
“go big” is best illustrated in the moving-
picture business. One night a programme
goes splendidly; next evening the same pic-
tures fail to interest. The turn in that case
doesn’t vary a jot. It is the audiences that
have varying eyes, minds and moods. They
must he affected by the weather or the war
news.
“Masetto”: Passed out at 58, Cecil Raleigh
(Rowlands), actor, author and critic. He
first played in Grundy and Solomon’s “Popsy
Wopsy,” about 1880; next he became mana-
ger, and after that he had a turn at criti-
cism for Vanity Fair and Sporting Times.
He established his melodrama mill in the late
’Bo’s. “The Pointsman,” the first production,
was followed by the “Derby Winner,” “The
White Heather,” “The Price of Peace,” and
others made familiar to Australia by Bland
Holt, down to “The Whip” and “Sealed
Orders” of recent days. His wife, a clever
actress, known as Isabel Ellissen, helped in
the factory; and after she got a divorce
Henry Hamilton became Raleigh’s partner in
the job of dipping the villain in a barrel ot
pitch lest the audience should mistake him
for the* hero.
Ivy Schilling and Fred Leslie made a hit
with their jiu-jitsu “turn” at the Empire
(London) in spite of the war and Ivy’s Ger-
man name. One admirer wrote: “The appli-
cation of jiu-jitsu to the rhythmic purposes
of the dance is fresh. Schilling and Leslie
are fine dancers; Dut beyond that they’ve a
touch of their own which will make the
market easy for them in England.”
“Driven Dotty” : For Heaven’s sake, while
we are reorganising the tariff, let us put
a duty on films and block some of the
crude, emotional screen rubbish that is
pouring in from the United Sobs of America.
A censor would be no good, because the worst
of the rubbish is outwardly very moral, with
fluttering angels in it, and saints with
things like motor steering-wheels on their
heads. Only the Creator seems to be
barred by the soulless U.S. film-producer,
who bosses the white-faced players who
make grimaces at one another like rude
children. Surely the art of pantomime is
more subtle and a great deal more graceful
than these grimacing Yankees think! At
any rate, I would like to see the Australian
get a chance to clear all but the best
imported stuff off the screens; in which good
work he will need the assistance of a duty.
I don’t see why the intelligent Australian
should be fed on the blatant sentimentality
of the United Sobs, a country which seems
to be everlastingly engaged in a struggle to
prove that, after all, it has a Great Big
Heart ’way back of its chewing-gum or
cigar.
The N.S.W. State Premier has announced,
like one who disclaims a charge of simony,
or barratry, or setting a cataract on fire for
the sake of the insurance money, that no
local loan is contemplated. The mere sus-
picion of a modified form of self-reliance was
a thing that called for prompt repudiation.
If it is correct that Roberts of Kandahar
took off his overcoat on a bitter day because
the Indian troops who had paraded in bis
honor were without theirs, the epitaph of
the fine old soldier might lie carved as fol-
lows : “Here lies a brave warrior who was
also a very courteous gentleman. At an
advanced age he perished of politeness in a
country which bad been brought to the point
of death by an outbreak of bad manners.
While younger comrades defeated the Ger-
mans he shamed them.”
A pronoun nipped Vida Goldstein’s ambi-
tion to become a candidate for East Mel-
bourne. According to the Constitution Act,
if a person has (among other things) reached
the age of 21 years, “he” shall be eligible
to be elected. The lady’s friends contended
that here the masculine was intended to
include the feminine; but the electoral autho-
rities—males, of course —reckoned that Vida,
if elected, would not be allowed to sit, not
being a “he” within the meaning of the Act.
Man’s inhumanity to woman once more!
One James Llewellyn Lloyd was sued for
breach of promise in the Sydney District
Court last week. The evidence showed the
parties to be about the most business-like
lot of people on record. When James went,
all afire with love, to ask the lady’s parents
if he might woo her, the father’s cautious
answer was : “Yes. But, remember, no funny
business.” James’s suit was successful. The
golden evening came when he was admitted
to the family circle. The following is from
the report of the case :
He arrived at plaintiff’s house, and said in the
presence of her mother and sister, “I announce my
engagement to the second eldest daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Rice.” He asked her if she would marry him,
and she said she would. He then put an engagement
ring upon her finger, saying, “I agree to marry you
next Easter Saturday.”
The only precautions that were omitted seem
to have been the insertion of a dictograph
behind the door, and the engagement of a
cinema operator to film the betrothal scene
and a J.P. to take a sworn declaration on
the subject. However, Judge Rogers found
the evidence sufficiently strong, and soothed
the extraordinarily wise virgin’s lacerated
heart with £lOO.
According to the cablegram, which is
always a liar, Waterloo, in Belgium, is to be
a sort of winter camp for two armies which
are not speaking to each other, and the hos-
tile forces will look across the swamps and
the ice and the snow, and wait for spring
to arrive, so that they may kill each other
when the bogs dry up and the grass grows
again. Waterloo is a great fraud, but it has
some historical significance. The old battle-
field was dug up by Belgian women working
at 9fd. per day, and a pyramid was built,
with a lion on top of it, and it is a long way
up to the. lion at the top of the pyramid, and
the beast’s tail was knocked off by French
soldiers when the French army went to
help the Belgians against the Dutch about
80 years ago. So much soil was dug up by
the Belgian women at 9§d. per day in order
to make the pyramid to celebrate the victory
of 1815, which pyramid was topped off with
the lion that lost its tail in 1830, that Water-
loo is no longer recognisable. The whole
place has been levelled down and flattened
out. There is no earthly reason why any
armies should desire to camp about Waterloo
in the cold weather, save that the place has
some shred of historical significance, and
not much of that.
THE REJECTED HERO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The actor snorted in his hate,
He seemed to paw the pave!
He did not hesitate to state
That he was strong and brave;
But to the war he would not go—
Respect the State refused to show
Unto his status as a pro.
“My services I offered, see,
As captain, or agreed
To take a small lieutenancy.
The demned official breed
Has little brain and manners small—
They wrote I’d answer to the call
As Private Jink, or not at all.
“They said I’d no experience !'.
Say, isn’t that too bad?
As,Major Spink in ‘Phil’s Pretence,’
As Captain Ambrose Ghd'd
In Jimmy Smith’s ‘The Fighting Line’
I served a year in .Ninety Nine-
Tumultuous success was mine!
“I served through the Penins’lar war
In Cluckett’s ‘Odd Idea’;
Old England's pride I battled for
Right through the grim Crimea—
That was in Rutland Giffen’s play.
And ‘no experience,’ they say—
Gad, siree, here at home I stay!”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


The Wonderful Leatherfiend Suit Case.
—' ” from
This is a Suit Case of undoubtedly remarkable value. Made of a
leather substitute which is wonderfully light and of incomparable
durability. Very smart appearance. The exact requirement for all
general use. In Brown or Green shades, as follows:
17/6
20 x 11 x 4J inches 17/6
22 x 12$ x inches 19/6
24 x 14 x 7i inches 22/6
26 x 15J x 8 inches 25/6 <
ii’e Pay Carriage.
DAVID JONES LTD.
OPP. G.P.O. SYDNEY.
V*
Double-Life
r>SHIRT
The feature of this shirt is the twofold strongly
and neatly-sewn reinforcement at the neck, as shown
by the arrow in the illustration. It is unnoticeable,
but doubles the life of the shirt.
Made of fine printed Twill in hair stripes of
Black, Helio, Brown, Light Blue, this perfectly
fitting and comfortable shirt will be a boon to men
wjio want a high-grade and durable shirt at a
moderate price.
Price Post Free
to any part of Australia.
Write jor our Fine Illustrated Catalogue.
CHAS. LANE & CO.
PTY.
LTD.
Corner Flinders Lane and Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNF
/ME.
DOUBLE
AT NECK
ENSURES
DOUBLE
LIFE.
Society
PENFOLDS
WINES
“W.D.” : The uncertainties of warfare are
infinitely varied. 1 was in France during
mobilisation, and on “the second day” said
good-bye to a friend who was about to take
his place in the troupes de couverture. It
was a last good-bye, as these troops consti-
tute the covering line behind which the
mobilisation takes place. The pick of the
country’s youth lines the frontier for this
service, and, as the instruction is to hold on
at all costs, so that the mobilisation shall
be in no way interrupted, the theory is that
the entire body is always annihilated. My
friend was on the Toul-Epinal section —the
nastiest of all. As it happened, the Ger-
mans went to Liege instead of Toul, and the
Belgians became the troupes de couverture
behind whom the armies of France formed
up. Toul-Epinal was never approached;
and, at latest advices, my friend,
who hadn’t thus far heard _ a _ shot
fired in anger, was suffering agonies in hos-
pital from sore feet. By all the rules he
should have died like a hero, but war ap-
pears to be mostly a matter of breaking
rules.
* * * *
The S. Aus. Supreme Court has endorsed
—though unwillingly—the old theory that
every theft, even though the victim has
fairly asked for it, is an offence against the
State, not against the individual. The case
this time was the not-unfamiliar one of the
old fool who drifts into dubious female com-
pany with £5O notes loose in
his pockets, and gets separated
from them. Judge Gordon told
him candidly that he ought
to be made to pay all the
resultant expense; but unfortu-
nately the Law didn’t look at it
that way. Instead, he got all
the change that could be recov-
ered. The lady principally
concerned got three years. The
State got nothing but the privi-
lege of paying the Costs.
“Confirmed Non-Combatant”: The follow-
ing Petrograd message has been published,
as though it were a matter for astonishment:
All German officers and non-commissioned officers
who have ever been in the army have been ordered
to rejoin the colors, whatever their ages may be.
Generals in retirement are obtaining commissions in
the Landsturm and Landwehr.
The construction of an officer is a wearisome
business. It takes hundreds of parades and
millions of salutes ; and it involves the wear-
ing out of miles of lace and spangles, and
the destruction of innumerable poultry runs
to supply military hat feathers. A big war
starts. What happens? All those warriors
who have climbed so high that it is impos-
sible for them to be accommodated with
billets commensurate with their rank drop
out. They mostly jnake a skilful pretence
of being heart-broken, but they drop, all the
same. While the country is full of youths
training themselves to be efficient lieuten-
ants, and while it is packed with juvenile
captains who would still be second lieuten-
ants under normal conditions, it is creeping
with experienced and presumably highly-
qualified lieutenant-colonels and colonels,
who are out of the military business because
it has been found impossible to supply them
with brigades. Why squander the result of
years of work, study, training, ceremony,
drill and gaudy costuming in a detail of
etiquette? If my house were on fire I
would battle cheerfully against the flames
side by side with the gardener, or even the
dustman. Why can’t some of Australia’s
officers who have risen high in times of
peace adopt a similar standpoint—and be
permitted to adopt it? N. S. Wales has a
narticularly big supply of these unemployed
colonels. One or two of them —Antill and
Lenehan, for example—are known to have
battled hard to be allowed to tear into the
Germans in any old capacity, but they have
been denied the privilege. As regards others,
there are grounds for suspicion that they
don’t want the privilege. Unless all the
past labors of these men have been useless,
unless all the display and glory have been in
vain, the situation represents a _ criminal
waste of good material. What is to pre-
vent Lieutenant-Colonel Brown accepting a
commission in Colonel Smith’s regiment as
(say) a captain? Nothing whatever except
Brown’s absurd sense of dignity, and pos-
sibly the fact that lie has little real stomach
for war on the vast, blood-stained European
scale.
* * * *
Another injustice to Germany! A Teuton,
who runs two places of pizness in Mel-
bourne, had been raided by the military.
Owing to some misunderstanding, the
Herald gave the address of the office which
wasn’t raided instead of that of the one
which was. Whereupon the outraged sus-
pect fired in a writ for £3OOO damages for
libel. That was his notion of demanding
reparation for the wrong which he hadn’t
suffered. Then the above-mentioned injus-
tice was done to Germany—the military
authorities raided the gentleman’s other
office, and his grievance _ against the news-
paper vanished like a Kaiser’s dream.
LEGAL PRECISION.
COUNSEL (for the defence): “If y'r Worship pleases, my client denies absolutely that he
is the father of the said twins or either of them."
A BARGAIN.
ABORIGINAL STOCKMAN: ”My word! Three bob! That pheller berry dear.”
DEALER : “ Selp vie! These rings cost me every penny of 12s. 6d. a gross!"
ABORIGINAL STOCKMAN (incrudn’ously): “Go on!” (Tarts up eagerly.)
“Briner”: The Emden keeps reviving
memories of the Alabama. Captain Raphael
Semmes had achieved some distinction
in the National service before the
American Civil War broke out in 1861.
He joined the Confederates; and Jeff
Davis employed him to buy war material
in the North. Strange to say, the
National Government regarded his buying
operations with contempt, and did not stop
them. When the war actually started,
Semmes commanded a little cruiser named
the Sumter, with which he destroyed 18
Northern ships. Then the Alabama was
built for him by Laird, of Birkenhead—a
sister vessel to Brassey’s Sunbeam —and with
her he destroyed 62 vessels before he was
sunk by the Ivearsarge, off Cherbourg.
Semmes himself, rescued by an English
yacht, the Deerhound, had had quite enough
excitement, and took to a land job, hanging
out his modest sign as a business agent.
Adelaide has had its own little war; and
you can see the result in the Adelaide Mail,
which now bears the imprint—“ Published
for the Mail Newspapers Ltd. (in liqui-
dation).” The liquidators announce that
they will carry on till early in December,
and will then offer the paper (by tender) as
a going concern. Clarence Moody, who three
vears ago left the Register to found it, has
already left. The paper had a German-
rush-on-Paris career. It instantly built up
a big circulation with a Thursday sports
edition, a Saturday evening “results” sheet,
and a great though sloppy two-penny Sun-
day morning budget. It was the only Sun-
day paper, and it had big prospects. During
the first week or two of the war there was a
big run on its cable news —and that started
the war. It came out every afternoon of
the week. The Advertiser and Register
got busy at once, for the only afternoon
papers hitherto had been offshoots of their
morning editions. Within a week or two
each of them had on the market a bright
Sunday paper—at a penny. Possibly the
Mail had internal troubles, besides. . Any-
way, the brisk competition forced it into
liquidation within three months.
* * * *
Caldwell’s machine gun, the Australian
weapon which was invented to do nearly
twice as much slaughter as the Maxim, with
only half as much risk of interruption, is
now on its way to England. The parts have
been sent separately, and under a seal which
is to be broken only by the War Office.
The Caldwell is a .double-barrelled _ shooter,
lighter, cheaper and simpler in design than
the popular Maxim. But the ways of the
War Office are hard to follow sometimes,
even as those of the Admiralty, which some
years ago turned down a device for warning
battleships of the approach of submarines.
A recent southern breach-of-promise action,
in which the gentleman was .branded
as a shuffling destructor of females, was a
reversion to an old-time method of treating
the plaintiff’s case. In former days when
a plaintiff “breached her man” she did what
Mrs. Bardell did to Pickwick. The late
Frank Lockwood, Q.C., foremost among the
NisiPrius advocates of the ’Bo’s , regarded
Bardell v. Pickwick as the model of what a
plaintiff’s case in breach should be, and he
used to go around delivering lectures about
it. The defendant used to be treated as a
creature who had the morals of a billy-goat,
brains like cold boiled tripe, and no quality
whatever save a capacity for writing im-
becile love letters. When Buzfuz had finished
explaining that the defendant was unfit for
employment or human consumption, he turned
blandly to the jury and asked for heavy
damages for his girl client because she had
been deprived of the privilege of living with
him for life. Then Victoria died, the spacious
days of Edward dawned, and people gave up
drink and got sense. The method of treating
a plaintiff’s case in breach was reversed.
Plaintiff’s counsel told the jury that the
action was brought to recover the special
damage plaintiff had sustained by the non-
completion of a highly advantageous ex-
tract to marry her. The maddened defend-
ant heard himself described by the enemy
as something so priceless that nothing could
quite replace him. It was more than hinted
that he allied the acumen of a Pierpont Mor-
gan to the prospects of a Duke of West-
minster. Enormous damages were demanded
for the loss of him. The discrepancy that he
was really an insolvent furniture-re-
mover or something of that sort never
seemed to strike anybody. Defendants
own counsel, on the other . hand, would
describe him (often amid indignant re-
monstrances from his own client) as a
worthless unemployed and unemployable,
with the brains of a catfish, the morals of a
Prussian junker, and generally as something
that the beautiful and highly marriageable
girl who had issued the writ had been very
lucky to escape from. Plaintiffs procured
good results from juries on these lines ; yet
last week’s case proves that the antiquated
method is as well adapted as ever to the in-
sane atmosphere of courts, since the _ lady
was awarded a full half of what she claimed.
“A II.A.”: The saddest sufferer from the
war that I have met is an Australian who,
in the first week of bloodshed and burial,
swore that he would not drink again till the
Kaiser was defeated. The other day lie read
some military expert’s opinion that the war
would drag on till 1917 —-and he went imme-
diately and enlisted. He means to personally
defeat the Kaiser in 1915, and open a bottle
above his grave.
WORLD DRESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s a shame-naked world, with its carp and its scold
And the cobwebs of print on its hair,
And the old twisted feet of it pinched by the cold,
With never a song it can wear.
The wind from the market where souls are on sale
Have blown into tatters its shawl,
And the spinners and weavers of word-linen fail,
For the music they make is too small.
So it’s coughing it lies, and it’s shiver it must,
Till they call for the doctor and priest;
For the voice of the singer is choked with the dust,
And the prophet gone drunk at the feast.
But if someone could strike on the harp of the sky
One chord that was sure, sweet and bold,
The slow bones of death would get up where they lie,
And walk in a garment of gold.
N.S.W.
D. M. W.


d upward
You Cannot Buy a Better Present
“O! tell me a good fountain pen—
Not one that will write now and then,
Of this there’s no doubt
That you can’t do without
Onoto —the self-filling pen "!
A booklet describing the various models, free on application to
Thos. De La Rue & Co., Ltd. Bunhill Row. London, H.C.
Onoto Pen s;
Fills Itself —Cannot Leak—Price from
IMPORTANT.—For those who require a '
larger pen with a very flexible nib, s
has been put on the market a special model
% ■ T the new G - Tr y this new Gat your Jg-, .' iV.U&Sj!
fi.fi;.>.- stationers. ■ jPAx-
a
n
Another PEAPES NOVELTY
A Three-Piece Washing Suit.
There are many men who do not care to go without a vest even on
hot days. Our latest production in Ready-to-wear Washing Clothing
has been devised specially for their requirements. It is the coolest
three-piece Summer Suit ever introduced—and the smartest. The
material is a Mercerised Ribbed Cotton of light buff shade, having a
silken lustre. It is excellent for laundering, and makes up like a silk
suit.
Sac Style, as per illustration. Coat has 3 buttons and 3 outside patch
pockets. It is cut fairly low, to show top of vest. Trousers have cuff
bottoms. A practical and economical suit for Summer
Please state chest, waist and inside leg measurements.
New Catalogue, in colors, on request.
35/=
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 and 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
From “Callan P.” :
Germany begins to show signs of the extravagance
of desperation. I estimate, from a study of the
newspapers, that over 3,000,000 Prussians have
already been decorated with iron crosses, which go,
I understand, about six to the lb. (avoirdupois). Not
satisfied with this, the Kaiser has started handing out
the crosses to ships. The new Emden is to have one
on its bows. A logical outcome will be the presenta-
tion of crosses to the quick-firers of the famous Pots-
dam lied Cross conveyances; to the bomb-proof
travelling kitchen in which Wilhelm visits his troops ;
to the different cement works and quarries provided
for the Fatherland by patriot Germans resident in
other lands; to the subscribers to the new war-loans,
and so on. Webb points out in his Dictionary of
Statistics that Germany produced but 20 per cent, of
the world’s output of iron in 1907. Its position in
this respect is growing steadily worse. It is relying
more and more upon imports. “In the last two or
three years,” remarks Webb, “the imports have been
from 10 to 15 per cent, of the consumption.” Iron as an
article “susceptible for use in war” must soon be
declared contraband by Britain (under Article 25,
Conference of London 1908-1909) if, indeed, it hasn’t
already. Germany’s position, in that event, will be
hopeless. Not only will the present mad orgy of
cross-giving have to stop, but all the millions of
tons of iron that will by that time have been given
away to soldiers, private citizens, ships, railway
engines, motor-cars, waggons, wheelbarrows and the
like will need to be taken back by the military
authorities. The last state of the recipients will be
worse than the first. The shortage having produced a
natural rise in price, holders of crosses or owners o£
vessels or vehicles to which they have been affixed
will feel —and rightly—that the State has robbed
them of the difference between the price of the' orders
when presented and their present value. A cry will
be raised against the confiscatory ways of Socialism.
General dissatisfaction will reign, and the German
Empire will crumble. The British are much wiser.
I see by the cable that only nine Victoria Crosses
have been given since the war began. Britain has
enough metal already in stock, according to my cal-
culations, to provide Victoria Crosses for both arms of
the service for the next 805 years.
IMPROVED WITH AGE.
" You're the most interesting woman I've ever
met.”
"Go on! You told that to your wife 20 years
ago.”
"Well, what if I did? A man meets a lot
of women 111 20 years.”
A SLUMP IN FIGHTING.
RUMINATING PUGILIST: “This war's the death of fight in'. We won't see a real ding-
dong battle till it’s over."
S. Australia’s Lutherans take their
religion as seriously and cantankerously as
any “Wee Frees”
in a Crockett
novel. Hage last
year asked the
Supreme Court to
prevent his quarrel
with a neighbor
being used by his
church as a reason
for turning him
out. Judge Gordon talked
like a father to all parties,
and got them to settle. The
quarrel was to drop, Hage’s
name was to be restored to
the church roll, anything he
might have said about the
pastor was to be taken in a
Pickwickian sense, and “it
is understood that these
matters are not to be here-
after revived by either
party.” But now Hage is
back in court with a pitiful
tale. The pastor put his
name back on the roll, but
refused to allow him in to
Holy Communion until he
nad “expressed before the congre-
gation, in an appealing and satis-
factory form, his heartfelt regret”
for having brought an action. All
they wanted, said the church’s
lawyer, was “a little Christian
feeling, a loving word.” On the
other hand, Hage’s lawyer said
they wanted him to “grovel”;
wherefore he now asked not only
to enter into the holy of holies
with liis brethren, but to have £250
damages out of them as well.
Judge Murray took a hand this
time. He realised that divorce is
the. only remedy for such incom-
patibility of temper. Accordingly
tlage is to “express a few words
of regret,” whereupon he is to be
allowed in to Communion; but he has to
leave the church (which, his counsel re-
marked, means selling out and leaving the
district) within a year.
* * * *
It used to be “figures can’t lie, but liars
can figure.” Now it is (or ought to be)
“Cables can’t lie, but liars can cable.”
The rights of the infant who hasn’t had
the luck to enter the premises through a
wedding-ring gradually become better de-
fined ; and it is satisfactory to note that prac-
tically every step taken is a step towards the
light. Two Victorian backblockers were
convicted x’ecently of offences against their
“step daughters”-—that is, their wives’ daugh-
ters. The girls having been born out of wed-
lock, the backblockers appealed. The Vic.
Full Court —Judge A’Beckett, Hodges and
Hood—considered the point and unanimously
decided that, as section 8 of the Crimes Act,
under which the charges were laid, was in-
tended for the protection of girls against
parents, and persons in loco parentis, it
didn’t matter whether the latter were married
or not.
* * * *
The N. S. Wales law courts have been
working overtime picking up various
tangled remains of the Earle Hermann
smash. Cases in which that eminent finan-
cier is involved arrive every week, if not
every day, and that ravenous animal, Costs,
rages simultaneously in various localities.
The other day a new phase of the business
developed upon the hones of a past struggle
between the North Sydney Council and Earle
Hermann, Ltd., in which, in separate
actions, each side got Costs against the other.
In view of Hermann’s financial position the
Council wanted to set off the Costs it was
supposed to get against the Costs it has to
pay. It succeeded, and the clamor of more
Costs arose. This time the beast was devour-
ing itself from the back.
“Cowl”: The will of one Ryan, deceased,
of Burrowa (N.S.W.), has been temporarily
disposed of. Ryan left £6OOO to the Cister-
cian order of monks in Waterford, Ireland ;
failing them, to the Iledemptorist Fathers.
His next of kin invoked the Roman Catholic
Relief Act, passed in the 18th century, and
extended to N.S.W. 100 years ago. It de-
clared these R.C. orders illegal, and contest-
ing counsel argued that testator couldn’t will
money to illegal bodies. Justice Harvey,
after much pondering, ruled asrainst the kin.
He agreed that under the N.S.W. Act the
monks were, locally, non-existent, but the bene-
ficiaries of Ryan lived in Ireland, where the
N.S.W. law couldn’t affect them. So the
money goes to either Mother Church or the
Law, and as the fight may merely be shifted
to Ireland the odds are on the Law.
“R. 8.” : Judge from this the war “news”
supplied even by that exploded superstition,
London Times :
German methods of fighting broke down in Poland.
....In a large sawmill 1200 bodies were laid in
layers upon timber soaked in paraffin. The pyre was
built up until it was the height of a six-storey house
and covered an acre of ground. It burnt for three
days.
An acre is an area of 43,560 square feet.
Giving each corpse 6ft. by 3ft., this" space
should take 2420 bodies without overlapping.
Why, then, with only 1200 bodies to dispose
of, pile them as high as a six-storey house?
The timber-and-corpse stack as lofty as the
G.P.O. tower must have had a fine overhead
crane-system too. Or were the dead and the
firewood loaded into Zeppelins and aero-
planes, and discharged at the upper level?
As a matter of fact, the whole story is a fake.
What really happened was that 1200 Ger-
mans were soaked in beer and laid out in
a six-storey brewery.
* * * *
A champion embezeller turned up at
Christchurch (M.L.) the other day, when
one Andrew Costelloe, employed in the office
of the Receiver of Land Revenue, pleaded
SERIOUS BUSINESS.
WIFEY : “I could have got this hat three
months ago for 79s. 6d., and now I've
had to fay for it. Really, Janies,
this war is getting quite serious. ”
guilty to having misappropriated £12,679 of
rent. He had been carrying on the highly
profitable business since 1911, and how he
managed to dodge the auditor the auditor
may have found out since. The money was
taken in big lumps of £3OO and £4OO, and
always in hard cash. This was made pos-
sible _by the absurd Government system of
refusing to take cheques for rent unless they
are “marked,” the result being that the
average cocky cashes his paper and carries
the gold round to the lands office. With
5000 Crown tenants in Canterbury, and an
annual rent-roll of over a quarter of a mil-
lion, Costelloe had a fine field to operate on.
The trouble about these fields is that there’s
nothing permanent about them.
WATCH AND PRY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“General” May (she calls it “My”)
Sings or bellows half the,day;
When she sings, “0 watch and pray,”
She will call it “watch and pry.”
There’s no need to wonder why
When her voice has ceased to bray—
It’s because she’s made a stay
At some chink to watch and pry.
N.S.W.
U.
A HOT NIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is no air ! The blind hangs still and straight,
And I lie breathless on a heated bed.
There is no sound! The dead we ld seems to wait
For some swift storm to split its shell of lead.
Somewhere a small, late insect whirs and ticks;
I drowse and wonder what small job he does,
And feel annoyed when, after some sharp clicks,
He ends up with a clear staccato buzz.
Ah ! Midway through a whir he stops! That shows
His conscience smites him, or a cop goes by!
A languid breeze the ghostly curtain blows;
It moves and shows a white star burning high.
The breeze dies and the curtain straightly falls;
Its white, still folds resemble rods of steel.
Out- in the night a startled hot bird calls ;
Its warm mate answers with an iron squeal.
I seem to hear the red Day’s chariot wheels
Beyond the frontiers of this awful night.
I doze a moment—-but the hot bird’s squeals
Bring me up cursing at the feathered blight!
More whirs and clicks 1 By Gee, I wish I knew
What flower or log he lives in 1 I would buy
A keg of poison and his small round strew
With something that would make him wilt and die.
The noises cease—or else I fall asleep
In spite of them. One instant on my ear
I 1ie.... Then rise once more, an aching heap....
The window’s blazing, and To-morrow’s here l
N.S.W.
THE MIDNIGHT THINKER.


THE POLITCAL MOUSE.
Ministers wish to lower the franchise of the Legislative Council to the ratepayers' roll, and to so reduce the property qualification of members, that they might almost an well advocate the abolition of the Chamber. Surely we have seen sufficient of the evil of mob
“domination” in the elections for the Senate to be on our guard against further weakening the Legislative Council. -Melbourne ARGUS.


3>
BEING MADE IN AUSTRALIA, there has been
NO ADVANCE IN PRICES.
TOOTH PASTE
Obtainable All Chemists.
Trial Tube, with useful book and
interesting test, free for three
penny stamps on application to
THE MANUFACTURER—
G. ARNOLD (Department A), 6 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
(Wholesale Only).
Sydney,
ith December,. ISO).
Helidon Spa Water Co.
Dear Sir,—
The following is analysis of the sample of
your mineral water left with me: —
Grains per gal.
off on ignition.
This water contains more lithia than any of
the European Spa Waters, except that from the
Murquelle, at Baden Baden, which contains lithia
as chloride, and it is, also much richer in car-
bonate of sodium, though Birresborn, in Prussia,
and Bilin, in Bohemia, approach it.
This water would be used as an antacid and
diuretic, the latter effect being due to the lithia.
I remain, yours truly,
WILL A. DIXON, f.i.c., f.c.s.
We now give an explanation of the
virtues of some of the salts which the
water holds in solution:—
Bicarbonate of Litliia. —An alka-
line which has solvent powers on Uric
Acid, forming with it a soluble salt, thus
destroying concretions. Purifies the
blood through the kidneys.
Carbonate of Sodium. — For gouty
and uric acid diathesis. Assists the
action of the biliary organs, checks food
fermentation.
Chloride of Sodium. —A gentle stimu-
lant to the liver and secretions. In-
creases the action of the skin, promoting
perspiration.
In conclusion, we briefly submit that the con-
sumption of Helidon Spa gives health and com-
fort to all who use it. Indigestion is instantly
removed, restlessness gives way to a calm feeling
of tranquillity, a refreshing sleep is often in-
duced, feverish thirst is allayed at once, and
when the water is taken with milk in the morn-
ing, a marked improvement in health will follow.
It must be remembered that no water hitherto
discovered is so retentive of carbonic acid gas,
which makes its persistent and sparkling efferves-
cence more agreeable to the palate, and also
more grateful to the stomach.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES.
The flying nigger of Colombo and Galle
Face and Mount Lavinia (Ceylon) is likely to have
a new source of revenue. From the South African
war days until now he has laid for the traveller,
and galloped for miles alongside him, and finished
up by showing him the mouldy house in which certain
captured Boer officers lived for a while. Thereupon
he has demanded a rupee with threats of battle,
murder, sudden death, bigamy, suicide, and excom-
munication if he didn’t get it, and has smitten his
scanty brown stomach as one who was mobilising
for war. Now it is said that the surviving officers
of the Emden are to be confined in the same locality,
and the malefactor who insists on being a volunteer
guide will take new heart, and run twice as fast as
before, and smite his discolored stomach oftener,
and demand two rupees instead of one. He will do
it on the, score of patriotism. A wonderfully loyal
subject is that swift, partially-clothed person with
the frequently-smitten brown stomach.
A MOST INGENIOUS PAN A DON.
LONGUN: "Wot's a paradox, Fatty?"
FATTY : “If a wowser was to come along an ’
bought beer jor us—that ’d be a paradox.”
There was a riotous time at Bunbury
(AY.A.) the other Saturday. Seventy-eight men of
the whaling steamer Rakarua came ashore, after
nine months at sea, and each sailor had ten shillings
lo spend. One mariner who has waited nine months
for a spree could raise a riot on half a sovereign.
But a simultaneous 78 of ’em !
** 4 * *
“Moana” : Rc the proposal (B. 15/10/T4)
to grow lupins to check the sand-drifts on the lower
Murray. About 25 years ago New Brighton, a sea-
side suburb of Christchurch (M.L.), was greatly
worried by moving sandhills. Someone suggested
lupins, and, after their sand-anchoring capabilities
had been proved by a trial, everyone in New Brighton
started planting. Before long the shifting sand died
of inactivity. Sandhills that passed in the night
were embraced and settled on the land. Although
the vegetable has raced up and down the long stretch
of beach for many miles it hasn’t become a pest. In
fact, it is starting to deposit a thin coating of soil
on top of the dead sand, and has caused a lot of
people to believe that waste sandy areas could be re-
claimed to usefulness.
“Joan”: While on the Dawson River
(Q.) I saw a bright green snake, about Bft. long,
attacked by the dogs. It promptly made for the
nearest tree, a very tall and straight gum, and
climbed it corkscrew fashion, until it was lost in the
green leaves. This is the only monkey-snake I have
seen or heard of in Australia.
* * * *
“X.I’.D.”: “Lagani-Namo’s” dissertation
on Gazelle Island surgery (B. 22,/10/'l4) moves me to
quote man-mending performances in Papua. To begin
with, the remedies of the witch-doctors thereabouts
are mostly bunkum, or worse, for the sorcerer makes
most of his fees by persuading Brown Brother that,
if he hasn’t got something good and powerful the
matter with him, he soon will have. The genuine
docs, are usually the ordinary men of the village,-
who know more about practical botany than most
chemists do. Gaping spear wounds, lacerations from
boars’ tusks and like injuries are treated with cooling
poultices of leaves. Another herb is used as a blister
or counter-irritant to ea-e a dull pain, and another
for preserving the characters of young persons who
have been indiscreet. When a boy has a “morning-
after” feeling, his mates give him cocoanut milk,
boiled in the shell. I even heard of an instance of
a badly-smashed leg being fixed up by substituting a
piece of wood for the shattered bone. But, after all,
Brown Brother owes his marvellous recoveries more
to a wiry constitution and a mostly-vegetarian diet
than to professional skill. His weak points are his
chest and his imagination; it is pretty well hopeless
to try to cure him of pleurisy, inflammation of the
lungs, or a resolve to peg out because a sorcerer has
told him that he is booked.
* * * *
“N. or M.”: That lonely little penguin
perch, Macquarie Island, comes under observation
again. Now that Hatch, the man who boiled down
the penguins for oil, has gone out of business no
use is being- made of the place except by Antarctic
exploring expeditions. The island belongs to Tas-
mania, and the Federal Government - has been in
communication with the Apple Premier regarding its
suitability for pastoral purposes. Explorers Mawson
and Ainsworth both think that hardy sheep would
pick up a living on the island’s coarse, tussocky
grass. Others reckon that the place is so drowned in
fog' and rain that the grass never gets a chance to
sweeten; and, anyhow, it has such a villainous
climate that only wire which has mistaken itself
for vegetation has a chance. The real assets are sea
elephants and penguins, the latter thronging the
beaches in thousands. They are staunch conserva-
tives these birds. At one time, according to scien-
tists, Macquarie Island was a much smaller excres-
cence than it is now. In those far off days the
birds chose nesting places near the water’s edge.
Since then the island has risen and the rookeries
have receded inland, but the penguins still toil
laboriously up to them, and no radical young thing
has been bold enough to set up housekeeping' nearer
the bath and the larder.
**. * *
“The Plunger” : Since last harvest I have
argued wages, hours and hut conditions with the
cocky on kitchen doorsteps, roads and beer barrels,
and. my experience has tallied in every detail with
that of others engaged on a similar mission in similar
circumstances. Hayseed grows palsied at the men-
tion of eight hours. It is a traditional outragfe at
an}' time, but during the months which cover the
cropping and stripping seasons it is the blankest,
blimiest and most blasphemous proposal. Of course,
I raised the banner of common justice with consider-
able satisfaction to myself, till a semi-sober heap of
sunburn at Coolamon (N.S.W.) hiccoughed: “Wha’
about th’ shearer ? Don't he work his rousey more’n
eight hours?” There is so much in the query that,
in the face of it, the men who prepare the case for
decent hours for the rural worker must either shift
their present line of argument, dissociate themselves
from the shearer, or, as a last alternative, convert
the shearer to whole-hog unionism. At present the
position is a simple one. For, roughly, four months
of the year the farmer is “all out.” lie says he
must work every hour of daylight—from 5.30 a.in.
to 7.30 p.m. in harvest, and from 0.30 a.m. to G p.m.
in cropping time —and his horses must be fed as
early as 4.30 a.m. and as late as 9 p.m. (An interval
of 164 hours.) So far the A.W.U. agrees with him,
but claims that two shifts should be worked. Then
Hayseed breathes hard and mentions robbery. Also,
he says that though the men may begin at 4.30
a.m. and finish at 9 p.m. they actually work “only”
nine to 11 hours. “Your figures arc right,” retorts
the union, “but from the time the man starts to
when he finishes the man is at your service. He has
no opportunity during that period to sleep.” To me
that argument has stood unanswerable till I struck
the aforesaid trouble at Coolamon. On the question
of hours the shearer is a horrible example. He has
an Arbitration Court award limiting his actual work-
ing hours to 48 weekly, but he hews his day’s work
into fragments so that his 48 hours stretch over 70.
This keeps shed-hands on the jump from six to six,
the engine-driver from 5 a.m. to 6 p.m., and the
cook’s “offsider” from 5 a.m. (when he throws off
his “wagga” to prepare hot coffee for the run before
breakfast) till 9 p.m. The only excuse foi* this
flagrant juggling with the umonistically sacred prin-
ciple of eight hours is that shearing is allegedly so
physically distressing that it could not be performed
with'the same distribution of hours as other manual
work, viz., 8f hours of actual work, with an inter-
val of one hour for dinner on five days of the week,
and of hours on Saturday. But this is all rot; the
cutting-up of his day’s graft by the hustling shearer
has one object only—to enable him to pouch the last
possible penny. If the rousey and the cook’s off-
sider and a few others are bumped in the process—
well, it’s their own fault for not being “gun”
shearers, too.
MINE’S POINT OF VIEW.
THE BOSS: “Well, Michael, and what do you think of the war?”
MIKE: “ Wot I says is, yer ’Antler, that them Germans are licking us all the time! Wot
are the Friuch doin’? Nothin’ ! And the British ain't the same fighteis as
in the old days. And the Belgians, they don't count ’cos there ain't enough of
'em. And the Russians ain't worth anything. By Gawd! If it wasn’t for
them there Allies we'd simply get walked over.”
“X.P.D.”: The latest indictment against
Jim Crow is for incendiarism. According to a
report from Baffle Creek, a sugar-growing settlement
up Bundaberg- (Q.) way, where most of the people
are Germans, the black villain has been sighted in
the act of usjng the firestick. A cow-cocky’s place,
having been invaded by a busli-fire, the boss, aided
by family and neighbors, outed the blaze. Then it
started again in a fresh place, and yet again. At
this stage a crow was spotted (so the son of a
bishop told me) picking up small pieces of smoulder-
ing wood and bark, and then dropping them on
different spots. Two blazes in the grass were seen
being lighted in this way. These despicable habits
are the result of a craze for fried grasshoppers
recently developed by the feathered old devil .of the
bush.
“King” : There are still a few samples of
the true “whaler 7 ’ on the Murray, and I had tucker
with one of them lately. His place of abode con-
sisted of three bag's stretched between two logs
and roofed with a sheet of old iron. The front of
the house was all door. He wore a crownless hat
and odd boots. His pants were mostly patches. He
was an authority on any subject under the sun, and
once he commenced talking it was impossible to get
a word in edgeways. (The taciturnity of the whaler
is all a myth.) He talked drought, war and the
Murray, of which he knew every inch between
Mildura and Albury, until a motor-car passed. That
switched him on to electricity, by which power, as
everyone knows, motors are driven. Then he intro-
duced the question of bread, of which article, it
seemed, he would have had a good supply but for a
lack of foresight, which, on reflection, astonished him.
He had been at the “cut out” of one of the sheds
down the river, and had “clean forgot” to take a
bag. “I mighter knowed, too,” he said, “the way
these shearing companies leaves the stuff behind.
W ithout a word of a lie, I coulder got enough bread
for six months.’’
THE WASTAGE REPAIRER.
PROUD FATHER (to wife who has been expa-
tiating on the manly qualities of the
soldier): “ Well, anyhow, Pm the sort of
man that'll be wanted after the war."
COMPELLING LOVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
At Lewisham (N.S.W.) Father Roche spoke
severely to those who leave before the end of the
service. ‘‘l am not a very big’ man,” said father
Roche, “but I am equal to giving a clip ? under the
ear to any man who leaves church early.’
—Sydney paper.
“Wud .ye fly from the lovin’ wor-rd av God,
To atin’ or kissin’ or dhrink ?
AVud ye trow down the ways av the dear ould Sod ?
At me eloquence doze or blink ?
The curse o’ Crom’l wit ye abide
If my benedictions shlip!
Oh, me jewels, let ye but go outside,
An’, though I’m no big'-un, I’ll bate your hide,
An’ give to yure ear a clip.
“I’ll save yc whether vc will or no,
Me shtiffnecked an’ full-fed men!
Lave church early, an’ go below,
Ye shan’t, to the Divil’s den.
’Tis Father Roche, an’ 1 tell ye thrice,
I’ll kill ye before ye shlip
From the grace of our dear Lord’s sacrifice;
I’ll save yure souls, or I’ll black yure eyes,
An’ give yure long ears a clip.”
VICTORIA.
MARTIN LUTHER.
HEROES AND BEER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Bavarian troops displayed great heroism in
obtaining beer. —i Message to the Age.
While Pearce sets up his dry canteen,
And all the prowling wowser crews
Mix loyal sentiments with spleen
Against the simple soldier’s boose,
The cables stir our arid soul
With stories of this splendid raid,
Which demonstrates the flowing bowl
Contains the liquor with whose aid
Are Wilhelm’s greatest heroes made.,
“For heroes brandy,” Bismarck said.
But brandy lays your hero low.
Who’d drink and save his precious head
Must trust to lager’s gentle flow.
For beer the Kaiser’s soldiers charged
The factory, and blind to fear
The swelling barrels they enlarged,
And fell beside them, tier on tier,
All laying down their lives for beer.
No cunning captain of the French
Will now take cover with a brew ;
No British captain will entrench
His boys before a keg or two ;
For though the German be accurst
With craving for our blood, 1 fear
There is another fearful thirst
O’er which no lust can domineer—-
His thirst for any brand of beer!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


Martin's Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin. Chemist, Southampton.*
810-SHOWMEN!
HP HERE’S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.’’ Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George
Street, Sydney.
Ideas
■FOUNDED' 1888'
PHILLIPS • ORMONDE&O
Consu/f/np fnp/oecnj, Pcrfen/-/9A/bnncyS
erne/7?nc/e/~7orX/7pcnA3 ■ 17QUEEN S T
MELBOURNE
æ
Insure in the
1.0. A.
The INSURANGEOFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed... 165,000
Paid=up ... 82,500
Branches in every State.
Agents wanted. Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager.
EVERY DAY
more people are proving” that
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes.
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
LEVER BROTHERS
LIAIITED. SYDNEY,
r
V i
“Jumbuck” : I take off my hat to the sheep.
Everything points to the probability that this war
will be won by Field-Marshal Jumbuck. The winter
has caught the German army in the east without its
winter clothing; but the cable reports that the
Russians are feeling quite comfortable in their sheep-
skin overcoats. In the strenuous winter campaign
that is foreshadowed the bear in sheep's clothing
ought to be too much tor a shivering German eagle.
I am designing a statue to be set up in Petrograd.
It will represent a lamb rampant with his hind feet
on a German bird.
* * * *
“N. or M.” : Various Abo. correspondents,
myself among them, have Avritten disparagingly on
that dubious vegetable the Cape weed. Well, they
don’t look at it that way in S. Australia. There it
wears a halo because it stands the drought and sup-
plies a passable mouthful for starving stock when
regular food supplies have given out. Provided the
case is as alleged, I withdraw my previous remarks
in favor of the halo.
* * * *
“Nitram”: Ah Chong was paying the
quarter’s rent for his garden, and, as he pushed the
coin over he murmured: “Welly dly. ■ No lain. No
,goo’.” Said the landlord: “Why you no go church,
pray for rain?” “A-a-a-hm! You tinkum that
good ?” “My word, s’pose you put piecee money in
the plate.” “A-a-a-hm! How much money?”
“Oh, ten shillings.” Ah Chong threw up his arms.
“Ten shillin’! By Cli’! Don’t want plully flood!”
“Y.Z.”: The captain of a ship which Avas
carrying away a cargo of Australia n horseflesh was
waited upon by the local mayoress and a small depu-
tation of ladies Avho were consumed with anxiety for
the poor, dear horses. The captain,, anxious to
please the dames, pointed out that handkerchiefs and
chest protectors would be thrown aAvay on his ned-
dies, but suggested that, as the horses would be on
their feet throughout a long voyage, hoof pads might
prove useful. The ladies departed, hot foot, and
got down to work with such enthusiasm that within
a Aveek a gross of pads were delivered on board.
They were little pink, blue and purple bags of cot-
ton-wool, tied with ribbons to match, and some of
them were scented!
* * * *
“Lagani-Namo” : All South Sea Islanders
make the vegetable fibre cloth commonly known as
“tappa”; but the Samoans and Fijians are more
skilled than others in its manufacture. A papyrus,
plant’s branches are immersed for several days in
running water, until the outer bark can be readily
removed. The inner fibre is then beaten on a log
with a four-sided wooden mallet, each face of which
is corrugated. Water is sprinkled on the material
during the beating. When the baric is reduced to
the thinness of coarse wrapping paper and is bleached
Avhite by sun, most natives are satisfied; but the
Samoans and Fijians get it down as fine as tissue
paper. They then fashion a wooden stamp (in
relief), and with an ink of vegetable dye and cocoa-
nut oil impress a pattern on the cloth. Sap from
the pani shrub serves as a mordant. When the first
sheet is dry it is thinly painted with arrowroot
(indigenous), and another sheet is laid on. The
Avhole is then carefully rubbed by hand until crink-
ling is worked out, and the pattern shows distinctly
through. This process is repeated with five or six
additional sheets of tissue.. For the best mats the
design is all drawn by hand, and a year or more
will he consumed in one job. Such mats rvere the
highest standard of currency prior to the advent of
the white man. Some are “priceless” to-day.
STILL GOING.
“Oh, Mr. Eckstein, I've just taken a snap-
shot of the favorite passing the winning
post ."
“Veit, veil, now; vonld you mind bein' so
kind as to go an' dake a dime-egxyosure
of the 'orse I packed?”
Few remarks addressed to an Up-North
council by an agitated resident: —
.your final notice to hand billing me for 5/2. AVhen
I sent my last rates I did not know what I owed, I
sent £l.lo.—which was more than it was last year
and now I have to send 5/2 more.
This Shire is the Biggest Disgrace In the world it
beats me how it got the name of shire council it
ought to be Howling AYolves.. There is our l oad here
never had anything done on it this 4 or 5 years, we
have to do our own roads up and pay Rates ; it has
been in such a state that people travelling in sulkies
carts and buggies have to go through other peoples
ground to get along. \Ye haA-e been doing the roads
up this last three years, and paying Rates and yet
they will say —go on the land and make a living—go
into the land and then get taxed and shoved into
hell. There are about nine teams of bullocks work-
ing on the roads here, drawing, paying royalty and
then have to do up our own road. Look at the
Shire how their roads are done up—it is something
like a Shire. The Howlers that comes around here
to be put in they ought to be sent to the War and
some lead put into them instead of some of the
brave men getting shot.
AVIATION AT BILL A BONG SHOW.
COCKY (to aviator about to ascend): “S ay, Mister , while yer up yer might keep an eye
out fer my brindle cow I lost three days ago ."
“Moana”: People who imagine that the
Maori is a primitive and untutored man of the woods
should have looked in at a big meeting of brown
men that was held recently at Pa Pakiki to discuss
issues connected with the Treaty of Waitangi. At
this huia there were between 400 and 500 natives
present, and the buildings consisted of a larg'c meet-
ing- house, a dormitory, a modern kitchen, a store and
a post and telephone office. These buildings, the sleep-
ing tents and the grounds were electrically lighted,
the necessary power being- derived from a handy
mountain torrent harnessed to a dynamo.
* . * * - #
“Norbell”: Horses, clogs, cows, camels,
elephants and fowls make intelligent, or at least
docile, actors when introduced to the theatre. Some
of them even seem to enjoy the limelight. One
quadruped, however, loathes the stage worse than a
wowser—the common, unvariegated donkey. He will
not act. When his cue conics, threats, prayers,
entreaties and spot cash are unavailing to get him
on stage. And when he is pulled to the front he
absolutely declines to come off, 'unless assisted by
the, full strength of the company. ' Years ago at Her
Majesty’s Theatre, Sydney, in George Rignold’s day, a
season of Irish drama was in progress, with Charles
Erin A r erner in the lead. “County Wicklow’’ was one
outbreak. The first act was a farmyard scene, and
A'erner, as the hero, had to hide in a stable. This
stable was supposed to house a donkey, and one
was duly engaged. Al] he had to do was to show
himself occasionally over the half-door of the stable.
Nothing more. But the faithful Neddy wouldn’t
think of it. He rehearsed so badly, in fact, that
ho got the sack. Rignold then suggested that the
ass’s head he had used in “Midsummer Night’s
Dream” should be utilised. Accordingly it was
unearthed, and the callboy was put inside it to pull
the strings that worked the ears, eyes, etc. The
head was wonderfully realistic, and when it was
shoved over the half-door it l®oked better than the
real thing. On the first night everything went
smoothly till Verner hid himself in the stable. As
he lay there in the straw he got very interested in
the working of the donkey’s head, and kept telling
the boy to lean further out. At last he gave a push
that sent the kid flying out to the middle of the
stage, and a crowded house was thrilled by the
extraordinary spectacle of two little knickerbockered
legs sustaining an enormous ass’s' head. The audi-
ence gasped once. Then a yell of joy went up that
echoed as far as Circular Quay.
“Peter Perfume”: Even the churches up-
country have turned down kerosene in favor of acety-
lene lamps. As a result, that fine old chant, “Car-
bide with me; fast falls the eventide” is more popu-
lar than ever.
THE IMPORTANCE OF KEEPING UPRIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The medical officer on duty treated the patient
for alcoholism. It subsequently transpired that the
man was not under the influence of liquor, but
was suffering from a fractured skull. He died about
an hour after arriving at the hospital.
Brother, do not slip on a peed
And batter your skull in twain !
With illness never faint and reel,
Or fall from a moving train !
For to the House of Take-your-Chance
They’ll hurry you—limbs and trunk—-
And some bright lad, with one swift glance,
Will diagnose you: “Drunk !”
Brother, bear up and keep your feet.
And wait for the mighty yell
When some girl, senseless from the street,
Is sent to a drunkard’s cell,
And a p’lieeman later ’phones and says,
Concealing his noisy grins,
“Ye sent her here as drunk, but, pl’ase,
The charge, agin her is— twins!”
N.S.W.
ALL THE SYMPTOMS.
The Hypochondriacal Cow.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Y’LL never have given yer time t’ the
study ’n’ inspection iv cows?” said
Flynn. “Iv coorse not. But cows
is complicated ’n’ curious be nature ’n’ full
iv intln-ist t’ the stujis man. There was
Millvaney’s cow Hannah, ez sthrange ’n’
varyis in her conduc’ ’n’ timpirament as
anny woman ye’ll meet wid this side
Chrissmis. Hannah was a sintimental
bjonde, she Avas, iv a pale apricot complexion,
n’ wid a hare lip V a quare club fut iv the
shape ’n’ diminsions iv a scone loaf.
“Be the same tokens, I'm Avan thinks
Hannah is what tliim gintlemin iv great
lamin’ would be callin’ a degenelit, ’n' all
her symptoms bear me out in me opinyin.
She’s iv a sthrangely melancholic disposi-
tion, jue liaytlier t’ the ay tin’ iv melons nor
t colic arisin’ frim anny source whatever;
n she’s wayward ’n’ Avifful, complicate wid
fits iv dejiction ’n’ lassiehude that lades her
t cry the blessed night through ’n’ through
t Johnnie Millvaney’s dishcomfit.
“Johnnie’s a man w-id the tinder soul to
him, V he’s fecliu’ compassionit towar-rds
Hannah when lie buys her, be rayson iv her
inrormities ’n’ the imped’ment iv her spaclie,
_n the air iv great depression goes wid her.
lis the desire iv the poor man t’ make her
happy ’n’ injuce the dishthressful crature t’
take a cheerful view iv life, V he denies her
nothin’ the hear-rt iv anny raysonable cow
could desire.
But tis wid Hannah as Avid mannv iv
her sex, mournfulness is oncurable Avid'her,
n a steady hopeless ’n’ dishparagin’ atti-
cliude is wan she’d take aven to a wake.
Johnnie Millvaney gives her iv’ry attintion
in the power iv .man, sooperior boar-rd ’n’
lodgin’, wid a nate boodwar-r, yeh might call
it put down Avid clane sthr'aw daily, ’n’
alwnz the whisp iv swate hay t’ lade her
mind frim sober riflictions ’n’ continyil dwell-
in on the futility iv existence.
“Never a lia’portli iv good is it all at all.
Hannah the cow have her fits iv deprission
the same. Tuck wid ’em by night she is
generally, n then she drift up be Johnnie’s
bedroom windy, ’n’ calls on him fer the
Lor-rd s sake t’ tinder a wor-rd iv sympathy
to a desolit felloAV crature. Yeh niver in yer
fiie_ liear-rd a cow moo wid such a wealth
iv imag’ry ’n’ power iv ixpression. ’Tis a
long, low cry iv desolation ’n’ dishpair would
oreak the hear-rt iv a stone, ’n’ ’twill not
cease more n ha’f a min-iite, bein’ reg’lar
as a tollin’ bell, does Milh’aney neglect t’
get from his war-rm bed ’n’ honld her hand
in a manner iv shpeakin’, ’n’ soothe her Avid
the kind wor-rd.
‘Ty e . “s* , W M tll( ‘ same symptoms to
Lliristyms took wul dthrink. When a man’s
that soaked wid whisky he nades a frind on
wan side ’n’ wan on the other t’ sit be his
bed, ’n’ liowld him frim meltin’ into a ter-
lible shtate iv A r acancy haunted wid sugges-
tions iv siven ’n’ twinty hairy devils, he’s
feelin’ how Hannah would feel be the dead
iv night, the way I argue mathers.
‘'Manny iv the neighbors passin’ Mill-
A-aney’s in the dar-rk hours found him wid
his head trim the windy, indiv’riu’ t’ ca'ni
Hannah, the eow. wid wise refactions ’n’
the kind wor-rd ; ’n’ quare ’n’ creepy ’twas
t’ hear the conversation becliune the two.
the cow oppressed wid her mis’ry, ’n’ Mill-
vaney gintle.’n’ patient troo ut all, givin’
her the benifit iv his cool common sinse.
“ -Oli, oh, mother!’ sez the cow ; 4 ’tis a
dar-rk, bad night, ’n’ the hours is long def-
late hours, ’n’ me heart’s cold dead widin
me.’
“ ‘There, there, then,’ Millvaney lie sez.
'Don’t yeh be fakin’ on.’ lie sez. ‘Divil a
liar-rm will come by yeh this night iv all
nights.’
“ 4 Och, sorra’s me, ye’ll not be lavin’ a
poor body ’lone, ’n’ the bitther throuble on
her?’ sez the cow, she sez.
“ ‘I be sure I’ll not lave yeh, honey,’ sez
Millvaney, wid great kindness. ‘l’ll bide
here wid yeh, ’n’ talk,’ sez he. ‘for tis a fine
night, ’n’ waii a man would be glad t’ be
abroad in, matin’ the fairies ’n’ the good
shpirits.’
“ ‘Wurra, wurra ’n’ ochone,’ sez the
cow; ‘ ’tis no fine night, for the Devil’s in
it, ’n’ the blhck imps is all in the trees,
huddlin’ ’n’ whisp’rin’, ’n’ tisprin’, ’n’ me
death minute is at hand —don’t I know it.
Blessed saints ’n’ holy pathriarclis. never
lave me:’
“‘Tut, tut! Will yell not thrust me at
all. - Johnnie Millvaney lie sez, ‘ ’n’ me close
wid yeh nose in me hand, ’n’ the dawn iv day
coinin’ V’
“So Millvaney would be calmin’ Hannah,
’n' soothin’ the nerves iv her, ’n’ then would
he shlip back to his bed, hopin’ she would
take a little shleep maybe; but ’twas tin to
wan she'd have him out agin before the
cornin’ iv day. wid her onraysonable com-
plaints ’u’ the parvarsity iv her.
“Come the time when Hannah had a ca’f.
’Twas a ca’f ill consthruct ’n’ different, wid
sevril hind legs, ’n’ a tail sore misplaced,
here be the neck iv it, ’n’ wan aye only shtuck
where ye’d har-rdly ixpict it up bechune
the two ears iv her-r. But he’ll take me
wor-rd Hannah med most unseemly racket
’n’ dishtractions over that shmall, ill-sorted
thrifle. Ye’d think the earth would shtand
shtill fer it. The ca’f lived wan day, ’n’
died when Johnnie mjed up his mind ’twas
goin’ t’ be iv gr-reat commercial value ez a
monsthrous curiosity fer a circus.
“Millvaney tuck his loss greatly to hear-rt,
but his dishtress was nothin’ t’ speak of be
the frantic mournin’ iv the b’reaved parent.
I give yeh me wor-rd, that cow was nothin’
but a menace to society ’n’ a dishtroyer iv
the peace wid the bellowin’s of her, _ ’n’
Johnnie was kep’ up a week, consolin’ of
her. ’n’ supportin’ ’n’ advisin’ the same, she
be the house side, ’n’ him wid his head out
the bedroom windy.
“ ‘Oh-h-h, mis’ry ’n’ bittherness.! Me
little ca’f is dead,’ sez the cow, ‘ ’n’ me
liear-rt’s clean bruck widin me fer ever
more.’
“ ‘No. no, no,’ sez Millvaney. ‘Ye’ll bear
up,’ he sez, ‘ ’n’ be a brave little woman,’
sez he. ‘for many a finer ca’f will ye have
in the good days coinin’.’
“ ‘Ooh —000h —pooh ! Let me die.’ the
cow sez. ‘Had I my way I’d not loose wan
hour. ’Twas a beautiful ca’f,’ sez she.
“Johnnie t’ console her tuck ’n’ tied wan
’n’ a ha’f yar-rds iv black crape round her
neck for full mour-rnin’, ’n’ that seemed t’
give aise to her. for she would shtand wear-
rin’ it in comparativ silence, wid the tears
fair dthrippin’ frim her nose, ’n’ people frim
miles round gathered t’ look the way she
dishplayed her imotions. Pleased she Avas,
I think, wid the public attention ’n’ notori-
ousness iv ut all. But shtill she would call
Millvaney up whin the fit tuck her, ’n’ have
him condole wid her an hour.
“Thin kim the time Johnnie Millvaney fell
frim the shtack, ’n’ got a thriflin’ hayfork
troo his liver, ’n’ was cart away t’ the hosh-
pital fer threatment. Hannah the cow
missed him fir-rst night, ’n’ went near
frantic. The second night she threw a kind
iv fit in the gar-rden whin Millvaney failed
to respond, ’n’ the third night convinced
Ryan livin’ be the hill to the right iv the
necessity iv killin’ her A\dd a gun. But ’twas
not at all necessary, Hannah the cow bein’
found that mor-rnin’, hanged ’n’ dead, in
the pulley rope frim the loft just befure the
stable dure. .
“ ’Twas deposed the rope used fer. haulin’
t’ the loft was left loose wid a loop to ut,
’n’ the cow r got her head entangled be mishap,
but if meself Avas the coroner me verdict
would be that Hannah the coav hanged her-
self delibrit Avliile in a slitate iv onsound
mind.”
EDDYSON.


IT’S A LONG, LONG WAY TO MOSCOW (especially when you're going the wrong road).


mm
Silu stria
(Regd.)
The New
Silk Stripe Flannel.
Garments replaced free
should they shrink or
colors fade.
boater:
w
n
j
v
M.
/
/ /oeia
\
'M
i
33
*4:^53
Your Hat
Should be correct as to Style, Shape, Weight
and Price. WOODROWS’ HATS fill the
bill and meet all requirements.
When you ask for a WOODROW HAT/
there is a sense of satisfaction in knowing
that you are buying an article which repre-
sents full value, and maintains its wearing
qualities to the end.
YOUR Hatter Stocks WOODROWS’.
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. l 3
PERSONAL
ITEMS.
“Chasuble”: Monsignor Cerretti, the
lately-appointed Papal Delegate, who is to
be stationed in Sydney, has been made an
archbishop, and thus is on a level with the
biggest of them. Whisper —is more gall to
be added by making him a cardinal?
“W.A.” : Miss Maude McCarthy and Miss
Beecher were not the only two Australian
nurses decorated with the Royal Red Cross
for services rendered in the South African
War (B. 12/11/’l4). Sister Rawson (now
Mrs. John O’Ferrall, of Melbourne), also
landed the coveted prize, and so did Sister
Bidmead, of Adelaide.
“Fax”: True, the late Colonel Bull, fol-
lowed Castieau as Governor of Melbourne
Gaol (B. 15/10/T4), but Messrs. Dwyer
and Magee came in between. There. is
nothing in the suggestion that Castieau lost
the job through the escape of Annie Davis.
As a matter of fact, he remained there till
he was promoted to be Inspector-General of
Penal Establishments. The story of Annie
Davis —Annie Miniver Davis —is, neverthe-
less, worth telling. She was doing a “lifer”
for an attempt to poison her husband, that
she might marry her lover. Mrs. Castieau
eventually took Annie into her domestic
service. There was great excitement in the
household when Ned Kelly was brought to
the gaol, and Annie Davis seized the oppor-
tunity to slip into one of missus’s cos-
tumes and walk oft the premises. Two years
later she was “nabbed” at Malvern (Melb.),
and taken back to prison : but Castieau inter-
ceded for her, and the Government released
her. As a law-abiding citizeness, who had
not attracted any attention from the police
for two long years, Annie seemed entitled to
resume her liberty.
M alter Buchanan takes the field again for
n- T^ time in 38 years, in defence of
ms AAairarapa constituency (M.L.). At
i 6 he is a remarkable Caledonian, and liis
sprints from one end of liis hilly fastness to
the other during a political campaign would
earn him a D.S.O. if the scene were the
European battle-front. Buchanan was born
in Argyllshire in 1838, and was 19 when he
arrived in Melbourne. After six years’
farming experience there he migrated to
M.L., where he made enough money in cattle
dealing, at the time of the West Coast gold
rush, to buy part of the North Island. As
he puts it, the very smoke from his chimneys
was mortgaged; but the frozen-meat trade,
which he helped to hatch, ultimately made
him a millionaire or thereabouts.
THE OLD SONG.
RAILWAY TICKET CLKRK: "What station?"
JONES (ce'ebrating victory): “ Wha'?”
R.T.C: “ Where d’ye want to go to?”
JONES: “I'sh a long way (hie).”
R.T.C.: "Wher to?”
JONES : "Tip (hic) rary."
Dead in Adelaide, Samuel Patterson, a
veteran of the Indian Mutiny, but a Murray
trader and farmer for the last half-century.
He was on the Sarah Sands on the historic
occasion when she wallowed off Mauritius
for 12 days with 17ft. of water in her hold
and a big fire licking at the gunpowder and
ammunition she was carrying for India.
Adelaide has given him a full military
funeral, firing-party, “Last Post” and all the
rest of it.
“Billy” Ilardliam, Maoriland’s V.C., has
again dropped his hammer at the l’etone Gov-
ernment workshops, and been given a cap-
tain’s commission. On the day he won bis
Y.C. the Dutchmen had been showing their
usual rifle skill and the Maorilamlors were
retreating. After they had galloped away
Ilardham found out that a wounded mate
had been left behind. Without a word he
turned back under a pelting fire, swung the
man up on his saddle, and, holding him there,
ran into the cheering British lines. In addi-
tion to the Y.C. —the. only one awarded to a
Maorilander in the war—llardham brought
back a lieutenancy, and then returned to his
civilian job.
C. E. Manning, the young Sydney barris-
ter who has just been gazetted Assistant-
Advocate-General in what used to be German
Papua, is the eldest son of the late
C.J. Manning, of the Supreme Court Bench
of N. S. Wales. He went from the King’s
School on a scholarship to New College,
Oxford, graduated there, and was called to
the Bar in his native State. He was Asso-
ciate to Judge Owen, and, later on, became
an Equity practitioner. When compulsory
service was introduced he took a commission
as officer of cadets, and when the war started
he went north. There now seems little but
home-sickness between him and the Lord
Chancellorship of the Commonwealth’s new
Possession.
“R. 8.” books a niche for Bigjohn Forrest:
John Forrest went to Swan Hill last week to
unveil the memorial to Burke and Wills, who camped
there in 1860. He was just the man to do this ser-
vice to the memory of two who were second-rate
exploders, the leader being quite unfitted for the job ;
and that unfitness and the stupidity of subordinates
led them to death. But Forrest’s bigness as an ex-
plorer is discounted to the sentimentalist by the fact
that he succeeded. The pathos of death and failure
was not his.
George Monger Malcolm Ilamersley (related to Mrs.
Forrest), a convict-blacksmith and two black “boys”
were his companions on the ’69 exploration from
Newcastle (W.A.) eastward to a place where rumor
told of white man’s gear in native possession—gear
which was supposed to be part of the lost Leichhardt
expedition. He didn’t map out much of the country
for the prospectors who came 23 years after. He.
went north from Toodyay to Lake Monger, east to'
Lake Bailee, east to Mt. Weld, back on the track and
north to Mt. Holmes, back to Lake Bailee,, and
south, by Mt. Churchman and Mt. Grey, home, leav-
ing all the Yilgarn and Coolgardie country to the
east and south of his line, though he was in the
gold country at Leonora, which he named Mt. Mar-
garet, apparently after his wife. Sundays he never
travelled ; and the camp sewed clothes while the
leader “real Divine service.” Yet they did 2000
miles in 113 days. He turned the country down for
pasture, but suggested “sending geologists to ex-
amine it thoroughly.” The story of Leichhardt’s
lemains apparently originated in the lo s of Austin’s
11 horses at Poison Rock. The art of native story-
tellers did the rest.
Forrest’s ’7O exploration was from Perth along the
Bight to Eucla, and to Adelaide. He seems to have
1 con frightened only onc-e, and that on the mountain-
ous cliffs which bastion most of the Great Australian
Bight. “Cliffs perpendicular to the sea,” he says,
“though grand in the extreme, terrible to gaze from.”
He reached Eucla on a Sunday, and met the relief
schooner there ; so he read Divine service, as usual.
There’s a fine picture to be painted ; the big blue
Bight and the schoon'er at anchor, the yellow cliffs
and dunes, and the explorer reading Divine service to
his men, who were scarecrows after that long march
in mostly waterless country. That’s th'e kind of
picture the Commonwealth Gallery will call for; not
these chromos of Governors-General and official non-
entities. Before Forrest left Eucla h»e erected a flag-
staff and flew the Union Jack, and had imagination
enough to go on east, leaving the flag to thrash
itself to pieces in the lonely winds of the great Bight.
With men sleeping on their feet, weary of night-
marching between distant waters, ho ses delirious
from work and thirst, Forrest was always the same—-
a man of fine temper, quick sympathy and perennial
cheerfulness and kindliness. He wo’Td sorelv have
returned from the job that smashed Burke and Wills,
who mostly operated in better country.
If there is a man in the world entitled, in defiance
of party government, to the job of Minister of Aus-
tralian Territories, it is John Forrest. Instead of
such a one the Northern Territory has had as official
head in almost every Government a Minister who
approached a new empire with the knowledge and
sympathy of a small shopkeeper.
SYDAEY KIDMAN.
(His cattle are on a thousand hills.)
Captain John Loutit, who died last week,
the oldest “salt” on the coast of N. 8. Wales,
sat for his master’s ticket at the very first
examination held by the first Marine Board
in Australia.
LANGER OWEN , K.C., of the N.S. W. Bar.
“The Old Soldier’s” send-off: —
Lord Roberts probably inherited his military
capacity from his father, General Abraham Roberts,
of the old Bengal army, who was in the early ’4o’s
Sir Charles Napier’s right-hand man in the con-
quest of Sinde. For several years before the out-
break of the Mutiny Abraham commanded the
Peshawur division, which was then, and probably
is now, the most important and difficult in India.
He was due for retirement long before the discon-
tent in the native army had become evident, and he
was well at sea before the explosion happened. But
if the old man was gone the young man remained.
. He had been serving for five years as a subaltern of
a field battery in Peshawur. John Lawrence, who
took it on himself to organise a field force to chase
the two sepoy regiments who had mutinied, gave
the command to John Nicholson, the assistant-Com-
missioner, who was only a regimental captain, and
made young Roberts quartermaster-general. They
accounted for the sepoys easily, and were then sent
down towards Delhi with orders to smash all the
mutineers they could find in the Punjab. They did
their work well, pacified the Country of the Five
Rivers, and got to Delhi, where they found they
were badly needed. Many of them —including Nichol-
son, who, after being wounded, fretted himself to
death at the inaction —left their bones there. That
was Roberts’s chance. He had done his duty in the
march down country so well that those in authority
were anxious to secure him. And so the Quarter-
master-General’s Department swallowed Roberts, and
stuck to him till he became its head. He was the
finest the Bengal army ever had. But he will be
best remembered as the foremost advocate of com-
pulsory universal service for the British, and his
patriotism in sacrificing a large measure of his
popularity for it should never be forgotten.
Died last week “Butty” McMahon, re-
puted millionaire by the grace of the Con-
gestion policy of N. S. Wales. As a young-
ster “Butty” arrived in Sydney from Ireland
60-odd years ago, and started to drive a
coal-dray. Soon he had his own dray, and
after that he went on piling up drays until
he had the biggest fleet in the Southern
Hemisphere. He never touched the light-
parcel business; his biggest job was the
contract, which he held for 40 years or so,
for shifting wool from the congested Sydney
railway station to the wool warehouses,
which are nowhere near the station, by
reason of the fact that the railways don’t
come anywhere near the wharves. The
N.S.W. policy is to force everything to Syd-
ney, goods for export included, and then
unload them at some place where they will
have to be dragged laboriously up and down
hills through crowded streets to distant
docks. It is a mad process; but it made
McMahon very rich. And the richer he got
the more prodigious grew his girth. His
little savings he dropped into a couple of
sheep runs and city and suburban properties.
“HAPPY JACK.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Perth, Thursday.—The Premier (Air. Scaddan) lias
returned from Melbourne. lie states that the result
of his visit has exceeded his most sanguine anticipa-
tions. lie succeeded in obtaining a loan of
L3,100,CC0.
Happy Jack
Took the track
To the East some time back.
In his State
Desperate
AA’ere the times. Oh, quite black
AVas the outlook, alack !
L'id that daunt Happy Jack?
Not a bean
Could be seen
From the coast to Nainline.
The cash chest
Of the West,
Where once money had I een,
AVas quite empty and clean.
Did that daunt Happy Jac’. ?
Revenue
AVhich was due
Simply failed to come through ;
While old loai s
Stirred their hones
And fresh interest drew;
And the deficit grew.
Did that daunt Happy Jack?
Uncle Bull
AVas quite full;
He said, “Jack, take a pull,
( r veil ll Miir.-h !
There's no cash—
No, not even for wool.”
A strong warning from Bull ;
Did that daunt Happy Jack?
Sanguine John
Cried: “Begone,
Dull Care ! Feed upon
Other jokers—
Silly croakers
AVho look pale and wan
When the cash is all gone.
You can’t daunt Happy Jack!”
So afloat
On the boat
People very soon note
Happy Jack,
With a sack
Which contained not a groat..,.
And he’s back —by one vote !
In a jubilant tone
He announces a loan
He has raised “on his own.”
His success has been “great” and a boon to his State.
There’s nothing to pay —well, not for many a day!
Things may crack, go to wrack—
What’s it matter, Happy Jack
Has got back
N.S.AV.
MONTY PEET.


i 8
301
m
m
m
m
h
M
■Mi
m
m
m
mm
n®
m
4
M wm
m
m
tstli
fel
te« HI m fc#
4a 4*. 4 t 4 v A /
■ * "X >j*i
i %11 m m mMmm
4 I ,/\ > 4\
m
1.3
sss
3&8
m
SlWSfc
m
'm *l*
H
V
il
il
«?•::•: .3?
4*
m
Hi
m
m<
m
m
m
m
i *r &
is
ms
m
« i X
if
it
lit
Hi
«:<
1 * V
■ .."
m
m
i:
*l. ) .
i
m
m
m
m
m
vm.
m
- £. f
#1
if
W
m
i
m
i • !
M
I
m
&
m
m
% G
p
■
m
:■ *
*
m
1
. i
H
I
W:
1
?S*:4
M
mm
444 A
V
m
W&
m
> %
m
■'■■<■■■<■ .■
*x&:3W
' v '
M
Ve&
Xs |A y A 4 -v,
> -X\,4-4-%y - v
:*•.
„,. .. * v-,f 4 jc**J '. i •■- - ?4; v* •'■ ;X? i?A7*
. .. 4s-^ : /•■• •' 4'-:4'^'^'-
T T’S mv wool that’s yours if you <ret your suit at Cowing’s. It’s “Sheep to ShAp ’-the practical patriotism which links
I up Australian production, Australian Manufactures and the Australian Shop that helps Australia if you can t go to the
front. Our “Austral” Suits are unequalled for quality, finish and wear. Send for patterns and self-measuremen orm.
We quote Austral Suits to Measure—63/=, 70/=, 75/=; 84/=, 90/=, 95/=, 105/=, 115/= and 126/=
GOWING BROS.,
“ PIONEER DISTRIBUTORS OF AUSTRALIAN GOODS,”
484, 486, 488 & 490 George Street; & 3,5, 7,9, 11, 13, 15 & 17 Royal Aicade, Sydney.
What’s Mine’s—Yours!


IRRIGATION.
We carry Large Stocks of Steam- and
Power-driven Reciprocating Pumps.
Cash or Terms.
Also Large Stocks of Centrifugal Pu tips suitable for Irrigation Work.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
49 Clarence St., Sydney
Overall, McCray, Ltd.
44 Campbell Street
SYDNEY.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Large Stocks also on hand—Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Pumps, &c. Send for Catalogue.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australia is not going to got the job of
extracting the flirt from its own ores without
a struggle. Britain will make a light for it;
tmd there will be more than enough stupid
Australians who will think we should be
prepared to let Britain have the industry,
and will call themselves loyal for taking that
■view. But this fact seems inescapable: from
the point of vic\ of doing the most good for
the Empire, the right place to smelt the stuff
is the place handiest to the ore and a suffi-
cient coal and water supply. The yarn of
course is that we should go to England be-
cause labor is cheaper there. In other
words: >“ You should go to the place where
you pay the British laborer least for his
labor.” It isn’t clear how the interests of
the Empire are going to be advanced by
paying people a large sum of money in poor
wages to do a vast amount of unnecessary
labor, so that the Empire can only afford
to pay another crowd of men poor wages for
doing a large amount of necessary labor.
To this paper it looks as though, instead of
employing 10,000 men at 4s. a day to cart
dirt from Australia to England, and another
30,000 men at 4s. a day to get rid of the
dirt when it is there, it would be far better
to inploy 10,000 at Bs. a day in smelting the
ore in Australia, and thus make the other
10.000 available for some other job that
isn’t unnecessary. Germany swiftly be-
came industrially great through eliminating
waste. The British Empire won’t become
great through cultivating it.
Says the London Mining Magazine:
‘‘Obviously, if Great Britain consumes twice
as much lead as that derivable from the lead
concentrate that passes our ports on its way
from Broken Hill to the Continent, it is
about time to consider the domestic treat-
ment of this output. If the two Australian
smelters could decrease their rates, they
might smelt all of it, so that the question
would not arise. But the uncertain and
expensive labor employed at Port Pirie and
Cockle Creek militates against economical
results. Then the question arises whether it
will be economical to send the concentrate
here for treatment; the reply must be in
the affirmative, seeing that it has proved
profitable to send similar material to Ger-
many.” This dreadful bogey of Australia’s
‘ uncertain and expensive” labor again!
Well, let’s see. Britain hasn’t been smelting
these lead concentrates because Germany
has been bidding higher for them. But the
Broken Hill Prop, has been able to bid
against the German, and thus secure scores
of thousands of tons. Much more than half
the ore smelted at the co.’s great works at
Port Pirie is ore purchased in competition
with Germany. In other words, Australia
in this business has been able to compete
with the Kaiser’s crowd, and Britain hasn’t.
And now Britain’s leading mining magazine
has the gall to talk about “uncertain and
expensive” labor as a reason why Australia
can’t compete with Germany, and why Hie
job should therefore be passed on to Eng-
land!
* * * *
Farmer and Co., Ltd., with its office in
London and a softgoods shop in Sydney:—-
Reserves
(Goodwill
Dividends. not reck-
, , . / A oned as
July, Profits. Pref. 6 p.c. Ordinary. an Asset).
1905. . £18,411 £12,000 10 p.c. = £15,608 £lB7
1906.. 19,001 12,000 4 „ „ 6,249 939
1907.. 22,223 12,000 7 „ „ 10,936. 226
1908.. 28,702 12,000 8 ~ ~ 12,498 4,430
1909.. 32,706 12,000 8 ~ ~ 12,498 12,638
1910.. 35,206 12,000 8 ~ „ 12,498 23,346
191).. 38,945 12,000 10 ~ „ 15,623 34,668
1912.. 43,027 12,000 124,,,, 19,529 46.166
1913.. 47,223 12,000 12* „ „ 19,529 01,860
Premiums on new shares, £17,508 .. 79,368
1914.. 48,453 12,000 12* p.c.= 20,131 95,690
.You remember the old shop in Pitt-streetV
There was a very eminent architect who had
designed the Bose Bay Convent and many
churches; and when the venerable house of
Farmer and Co. wanted new premises it
called in this ecclesiastical designer. The
result was just what might have been ex-
pected—a very beautiful building that you
would go the other side of the street to fook
at. Then some new people came into the
business; and James Chalmers, who had
built up the Civil Service Stores, was in-
vited over and made a director. These people
didn’t want the crowd to go the other side
of the road to look at the building, which
wasn’t for sale. They wanted the crowd to
come right up to the doorstep and be
charmed with the goods which were for sale.
So the beautiful front was torn out; and
other things were done to match; and the
table tells most of the rest of the tale. Be-
fore 1905-6 the concern was little more than
a big private firm, which paid out profits as
they were made and accumlated no visible
reserves. Then the Australian public came
in, buying both pref. shares and ordinaries,
mostly from London to start with ; and after
that, the shares being quoted on the market,
steps were properly taken to more or less
equalise the dividends and thus prevent vio-
lent Huctations which wouldn’t do the busi-
ness itself any good.
When the present co. was formed in 1897
the old partners and their friends provided
£150,000, in £lO shares, 6 p.c. cumulative
pref. Subsequently £50,000 more of this
pref. capital was issued ; and during the past
year the ordinary capital was increased to
the same total amount of £200,000 by the
issue of 4877 £lO shares at a premium of
£4. That makes the present capital
£400,000; and before the ordinaries get any-
thing prefs. must have £12,000. If the capi-
tal all round earns 8 p.c. there is enough,
after satisfying the prefs., to give the ordin-
aries 10 p.c. And capital and reserves com-
bined have now to earn very little more than
0 p.c. to pay the prefs their G p.c. and ordin-
aries 10 p.c. In bad times and when you're
struggling, pref. capital which costs G p.c. is
liable to be an aliliction. But in good times
and. when you’re firmly set-up, capital which
can’t take.more than G p.c. no matter what it
earns is liable to bring you in a nice, easy
profit. That is the stage which Farmer’s
have reached.
Not that things are going to be always
what they have been during the past four or
five years. Though we all poke borak at the
young man behind the ribbon counter, the
management of a softgoods business calls for
more brains than almost any other kind of
shopkeeping. In it there are no standards.
You charge what you calculate you can get.
And that’s where the genius comes in. Any
fool can take a line and add 831 p.c. to cost
for exes, and profit. It takes something
better than a fool to say of a particular
line—“ The public will give us 250 p.c. profit
on that at this moment.” In the past few
years he might say 250 p.c.; for the next
year or two he is much more likely to say
150 p.c. And that’s one reason why Farmer’s
profits will suffer. Last year they were
£48,458, and to pay the G and 121 p.c. divs.
on the present capital only £37,000“ is needed.
The margin is therefore comfortable. And
it is at least possible that the amount written
off for depreciation is so liberal that, if
necessary, true profits could be shown to be
larger than they have been represented.
However, that is merely a guess. It is cer-
tain that, down to a few years ago, very
expensive additions, etc., were made and paid
for out of current revenue; but recently
large freehold purchases have been charged
to capital account. In 1010 the item “Free-
hold premises and plant” stood at: £222,G1G:
now it is up to £481.778. The policy mav
have been changed, and little or nothing may
be written off now. If so, it would explain
some of the remarkable increase in profits.
In any case, the shareholders have the bene-
fit of the old policy of making profits pay
for almost everything. The liabilities total
£204,740. Apart from the freehold
premises, the tangible assets. mostly
stock and cash, total £282.584. After
slashing down the value of the stock
there would thus still be enough floating
assets to pay all liabilities, leaving for the
shareholders an unencumbered freehold
standing in the books at £431,778 (including
a trifle for plant), and worth 25 p.c. more.
It is not often you get such security along
with such a profit.
ri Vic. State Goal Mine (Wonthaggi) :
1 he profit for the year to June 80, including
interest earnings (£899). was £39,017. This,
with previous profit, has been allocated as
follows:
For Sinking Total
•mne, Depreciation. : Fund. Profit.
J 9ll •• £17,052 £7,050 £24.102
1912 • • 1,892 7,942 9,8:44
1913 •• 10,900 80,854 41,700
1914 . . 26,099 12,318 39,017
£56,549 £58,164 £114,713
Nominally, that shows an aggregate profit
of £114,713 in four years; but the actual
position is much less flattering. Of the
sinking fund, which should have been held
and invested to provide for the repayment
of capital, £24,161 has been burgled to pay
for “emergency work,” whatever that may
be. Of the other fund. £1648 has been spent
in replacements: and £67,000 has been
written off the assets. If £67.000 plus the
special and emergency expenditure, covers
the depreciation, then the four years’ net
aggregate profit has been £21.905. The
manager estimates that the, provision of
£07,000 is sufficient. For the past year he
reckons £25,000 ample. If that is so we
get this result: besides paying working exes.,
interest on capital (put up by the State),
and sinking fund, and providing amply for
depreciation, a profit of £1699 was 'made
last year. This includes £486 interest
earned by Depreciation Fund investments.
To the great credit of the management this
fund, as well as what is left of the sinking
fund, is not “invested in the business.” as
the thing is euphoniously called. Both are
either on deposit or in Government Stock.
The securities ought, of course, to be in the
hands of a Public Trustee. Then there
would be a better guarantee that they
wouldn’t be collared for “emergency” pur-
poses.
The amount of capital raised by loan
stands at £218,091. Liabilities (including
stores suspense account) total £25.080.
Stores and semi-liquid items, apart from the
mine property and equipment, total £27.766
—more than enough to pay the debts. There
are then the mine and plant and £72,591 of
cash and public securities (at the credit of
the two funds above mentioned) to represent
the £218,091 of borrowed capital. Seeing
that interest has been paid throughout, being-
charged before as well as after the mine
became remunerative, the record is highly
satisfactory. In view of what was said
previously, it will, of course, be recognised
that the £72,591 isn’t profit made by the
business. Still it’s there, in hard cash or
convertible securities, representing roughly
the revenue in excess of expenditure on
working, interest and plant replacements.
No new estimate has been made of the
coal available. In 1912 the manager said
he thought there were 20.000.000 tons.
Twelve months later he added 1.000,000 tons
net. At that time rather less than half the
mine area had been bored. Only closer
boring of the already scout-bored area'seems to
have been done this year; so the manager
says lie can’t increase his estimate. There
has been an extraordinary amount of boring,
this policy having been adopted because the
coal is so irregular and faulted that blind
stabs underground would mean frequent
failures and consequent waste. For the same
reason the estimate of tonnage can at best
be regarded ouly;_.as. the nearest possible in
the circumstances. The quantity produced
and sold during the year was 495.155 tons.
It went to the railways, 316,159 tons; other
public departments, 12,774 tons ; and public,
166,222 tons. Under a stupid provision of
the law the mine may sell only small coal
(slack) to the public. On the same principle,
when the State gets a few trawlers, they
will throw the whiting and the flounder and
the sclinapper back into the water, and land
and sell only the mullet and the ’couta.
Jambs- Martin and Co., Ltd., formed to
take over an old-established Sydney machi-
nery business as from June, 1911 (the deficit
with which the co. started was represented
by goodwill and flotation expenses, £10,236,
less £1978 of reserves) :
Writ-
ten Towards De-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves, licit.
1911 £8258
1912 . . £8,063 Sp.c.= £2052 £4OO £5611 2647
Reserves.
1913 .. 11,209 8 ~ ~ 5032 400 5777 3130
1914 .. 6,175 7 „ „ 4504 400 1271 4401
The history of the firm, prior to the forma-
tion of the present co., though not flash, was
solid and good. For 12 years the trustees of
the estate of the late James Martin carried
on the business, and to the capital of £12,157
which they took over they added £20,500 out
of profits, besides paying certain sums to the
family. For the whole concern the present
co. paid this £32,657 plus £BOOO for goodwill
and £4OOO for leasehold —all in shares. As
such things were going in those frothy days,
the price was modest; and a couple of good
years enabled the co. to transform the deficit
(that is, capital not represented by tangible
assets) into a surplus or reserve of £3130,
In the past year things have not been run-
ning so well. The eo.’s principal trade is in
agricultural machinery; and a very large
proportion of it is done on time-payment or
“hire agreement.” Usually there is a small
deposit and three bills drawn payable after
successive harvests. Last year’s N.S.W.
harvest was poor in places and moderate in
others, and many a February bill wasn’t met.
The prospects of the present harvest have
been for months past wretchedly bad.
Between the two the co.’s profits have been
badly cut into. A lot will depend on the
1915-16 crop. If that fails this co., like a
good many others, will find a lot of shock-
ingly depreciated plant, etc., thrown on its
hands. And the depreciation of agricul-
tural machinery in a droughty year is simply
furious.-, In any case, with a reduced nu:«i-
ber of t.p. sales in the past year, with
farmers buying as little as possible in the
current year, and with scores of them pay-
ing nothing on account of uncompleted pur-
chases, there isYpretty certain to be another
lean P. and L. account ahead of the co. Of
course a tremendous area of new ground is
being cultivated; but most of it is being
cultivated in Government departments and
the newspapers. And you can cultivate
millions of acres there without so much
even as a new set of harrows.
When the co. was formed the public was
offered 55,343 shares. These, with the
44,657 paid for the business, were to make
a total of 100,000. As a matter of fact, only
about 22,500 were applied for. A further lot
were offered last: year and encouraged by the
15 p.c. profits of the previous year, 20,000 or
so were taken, and the paid capital thus
brought up to £87,808. But the co. is still
as much in debt as it was before; in addi-
tion to £44,000 owing on debentures there
are sundry creditors for £44.883. The
£20,452 of new capital lias been nearly all
swamped in extra book-debts (mostly hire
agreements, now £92,525), stock and freehold
premises (the co. has been shifting its fac-
tory from Pyrmont to Concord). The co. will
haye its set-backs ; but its field is very exten-
sive, and whether it will cover that field and
make a profit to correspond depends mainly
upon its organisation. It has to meet the
Yankee; and whatever else the Yankee, may
lack he doesn’t lack business method. A
good many Australian manufacturing con-
cerns do —especially, so far as machinery
firms are concerned, when it comes to the
prompt and sure supply of duplicate parts.
0.T., Ltd., was formed in 1909 to take
over the cordial-making and distributing busi-
ness of J. Dixon and Co., of Prahran (Vie.).
Capital was £70,000. of which £60.944 was
issued in payment for goodwill, trade marks
and “bottles in circulation.” Subject to some
remarks hereunder, this composite item is
regarded as an intangible asset, and conse-
quently is reckoned as the deficit with which
the co. started :
Towards De-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, ficit.*
June, 1909.. £60,944
Dec., 1909. .£5,072 6 p.c. =£4,200 £872 60,072
June, ]910.. 4,196 6,. ~ 4,200 60,076
Dec., 1910.. 5,795 7 „ ~.4,900 895 59,181
June, 1911.. 5,406 74 ~ „ 5,250 156 59,025
Goodwill items added, £28,920 . . 87,945
Premiums on new shares . . 126 87.819
June, 1912.. 18,707 10 p.c. = 11,585 7,122 80,697
June, 1913.. 23,773 10 ~ „ 13,045 10,728 69,969
June, 1914.. 16,608 10 „ „ 13,333 3,275 66,694
"In these figures “Goodwill, trade marks and bottles
in circulation” are not reckoned as assets.
Strictly speaking, there’s another intangible
asset—£69s2, money spent in advertising
(largely in England) and not yet charged
to working expenses. After providing for
the half year’s dividend this was the posi-
tion :
Cash, premises, book debts, stock and
other tangible assets, less liabilities. . £59,524
Advertising, etc. . . . . . . . . 6,952
Goodwill, bottles in circulation, etc. . . 89,864
Total net assets .. .. £156,340
That accounts for —Capital, £133.169;
nominal reserves, £23,171. There is a tre-
mendous difference between reserves of.
£23,171 and a deficit of £73,000 odd. "Vou
pay your money and take your choice.
But what does this goodwill consist of,
and what are these “bottles in circulation" V
First, probably £lO,OOO to £50,000 of the
original capital of £70,000 was paid (in
shares) for the right to the business out of
which Dixon & Co. had been making their
profits, and for their ideas of how to make
more profits. To a large extent the money
was paid for past advertising. Also, maybe,
some of the additional goodwill represents
the cost of subsequent advertising. Only a
trifle of wliat has been spent on advertising
is. however, reckoned in with the goodwill.
The directors say: “The amount spent in
advertising during the past two years totals
£46,718, the whole of which has been written
off against profits with the exception of
£6952.” Thus (disregarding that £6952) it
has been officially assumed, in making up
these accounts, that this big sum of money-
spent in two years won’t produce any subse-
quent business; in other words, that if the
co. stopped advertising, none of those who
bought this co.’s liquids as the result of the
advertising would call for another glass.
The assumption is, of course, really absurd.
This and every other co. offering goods of
this character must advertise or wilt; but
since a man who has been drinking a certain
cordial more or less regularly for a year
won’t leave off suddenly to-day because he
didn’t see the stuff advertised in this morn-
ings papers, yesterday’s advertising and even
last month’s and last year’s advertising have
a value. But it can’t be measured. Also
the tongue and shoe-leather which this co.
has worn out in getting a connection in
Canada are worth something; yet this has
been included with the working exes., and
therefore doesn’t figure as an asset. Then
there are the bottles. A used bottle is pre-
sumably as good as and perhaps better than
a new bottle; but naturally, since these
cos. don’t sell you the bottle when they sell
you its contents, 0.T., Ltd., doesn’t
pay as much for the delivery of its
own used bottle as it does for the
manufacture of a new one. The people
who send out beer and soft-drinks expect
their bottles to come back to them, on an
average, twice at least. That means three
fillings or more. “Bottles in circulation”
therefore represent* an asset. But the value
of this asset can’t be measured either.
Therefore the position is that to represent
its £133,169 of capital, in 10s. shares, the
co. has £59,524 net of assets which can be
valued, and are probably worth that much,
and a large quantity of assets which can’t
be valued. But while the nature of the assets
affects the security for the principal, it doesn’t
affect the profits—except to this extent, that
one can’t tell how long they will last; or,
rather, one can less confidently tell than in
the case of (say) a concern whose capital is
wholly or largely represented by deposits,
real estate or stock. In a few years bad
management in a business like this might re-
duce the profits to nothing. On the other
hand, a management which, while spending
a lot of money on business extension, can
show for three years an average annual
profit of about £2o,f 00, or over 16 p.c. on
the capital, seems to be capable of making
still more as it goes along.
The County of Bourke Permanent
Building and Investment Society (Mel-
bourne) :
B'.isi- Net Pro-
ness fit on To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Sales. Dividends. serves, serves.
1902.. £8,388 £3913 71 p.c. = £7,361 £4890 £21,321
1903.. 8,844 2632 7* „ „ 7,361 4116 26,436
1904.. 10,753 1563 74 „ „ 7,314 5002 30,438
19057. 9,408 1500 8J ~ 8,533 2375 32,813
1906.. 10,291 1200 10 ~ „ 9,752 1739 34,552
1907.. 10,922 1300 10 „ „ 9,752 2470 37,022
1908.. 10,870 1500 10 ~ „ 9,667 2703 39,725
1909.. 10,702 2000 10 „ „ 9,636 3066 42,791
1910.. 10,512 4000 10 ~ „ 9,636 4876 47,667
1911.. 11,768 3000 10 ~ „ 9,636 5132 52,799
1912.. 13,297 3550 10 „ „ 9,636 7211 60,010
1913.. 13,425 1500 10 „ „ 9,868 5057 65,067
Premiums on new shares . . 1923 66,990
1914.. 15,006 1000 10 p.c. = 12,064 3942 70,932
“Net profit on sales” is profit with a quali-
fication. In 1898, while the society was still
Wishing it hadn’t drunk so much the night
before, it had a revaluation of those boom
assets which it hadn’t meantime been able
to realise; and properties, etc., standing in
the books_ at £180,876 were written down
to £118,151. To provide for this shrinkage
two-fifths of the capital was written off —
rather more than was necessary, so that
£10,532 was left over to start a reserve fund.
Since the revaluation the shrunken assets have
Stretched again; and the “profit on sales” is
the amount of the stretch, represented by
cash actually handled. There is very little
of the old trouble to be got rid of; but as
there is still money to be received from time-
payment buyers, the co. may yet have more
or less of this “profit” to collect. How much
The Bulletin can’t say. But from the fact
that the annual “profit on sales” has been
tapering off, it probably isn’t a great deal.
Here are more figures:—
1900. 1910. 1912. 1913. 1914
Capital £98,150 £96,361 £96,361 £108,732 £125,000
Deposits 6,211 21.275 40,334 37,117 44,489
Other lia-
bilities 1,897 4,347 12,207 13,871 8,672
Foreclos-
ures . . 66,536 17,837 1,772 1,063 577
Advances 49,339 157,273 211,805 222,553 254,365
Other
assets 5,907 563 152 6,222 102
A reduction of foreclosures from £66,536 to
£877 isn’t necessarily as good as it looks.
It all depends on how much cash the co. has
got on the sales and the status of the men
who owe the balance. But even assuming
that most of the properties were sold on
fairly long terms, the outstanding balances
shouldn’t now be of much consequence; for
only about £7OOO worth (book value) of
property has been sold as recently as within
the past four years. On the other hand
the advances have increased during the last
two years by £42,000, so there must be
numerous loans of which very little has been


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (LIMITED)
The LARGEST and STRONGEST
Trustee Company in Australasia.
Acts as
Trustees of Wills and
Settlements.
Administrators, Attorneys under
Power, Agents, etc.
The CHARGES ARE LOW, and the
Management is in the hands
of Experts.
A Booklet setting out its methods and
Charges will be sent on application.
A. .T. MACKENZIE. Manager.
R. C. LETHBRIDGE, Asst. Mgr.
2,4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Are you getting your pulleys turned all the time?
Do you know with certainty that every ounce of
power that vour engines generate is transmitted with-
out loss? These two questions have stumped many
merchants —they can give only half answers. Let
us help you with these costlv power problems to-day.
Our information is the result of 57 years’ study on
thorough, all-time pulley-driving belting. “Pioneer’’
leather belting is the result. Briefly, the “Pioneer
facts are these: It is made from the centre cuts ot
flawless Australian ox hides —specially tanned and
strained —cut to a uniform thickness, properly .joined
and securelv stitched or riveted. “Pioneer” has
secured all the Imperial, State and Federal Dept,
contracts for 1914-15. It works in all the big ore
mines, sugar and timber mills and in thousands ot
private plants. We can send you a trial length from
our nearest office. May we do it to-day? “Pioneer”
is made only by J. C. Ludowici and Son Ltd.,
“Pioneer” Works', 117 York Street, Sydney (opp.
O. V. Markets). Sold in Victoria by Geo. Russell
ptv Ltd. Flinders Street, Melbourne: South Aus-
tralia: J. McKell, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide:
Queensland: Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd., Brisbane :
W Australia: Horace Summers, Howard Street, Perth ;
Broken Hill: Geo. C. Dempster, Argent Street.*
C. A. Parsons & Co. Ltd., Newcastle-on-Tvne, are
now making their geared turbines whereby the
Parsons’ Steam Turbine may he geared to a slow-
running dynamo, pump, etc. Sets up to 4000 k.w.
are already running, and a large geared turbo pump-
ing set is shortly arriving for the Metropolitan Board
of Water Supply and Sewerage, Sydney. High
efficiency is secured and the economy of the high-
speed turbine is still maintained. The Union
steamer Maheno has recently been re-engined and fitted
with geared turbines, and numerous other boats are
now running. Sole agents. William Adams and Com-
pany Limited, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and
Perth.*
* * * *
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Ilecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem ; they have installed 64 of them, and say
‘‘the Hardinge Conical Mill is the mast efficient
grinding machine ice hare yet gotten hold of.” If
they sav this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are
the sole representatives for them in the Common-
wealth, and will be glad to forward particulars.* j 1
* * * *
Extract fiom The Policy-Holder, London, Novem-
ber 26, 1913, re the Colonial Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society Ltd.: —“Then. too. in another way it
makes a wider appeal than many mutual assurance
societies, its programme of operations including, in
addition to life assurance and annuities, life policies
which include sickness and accident benefits and per-
sonal accident and sickness insurance on the usual
lines, while it also has a young industrial branch —-
established about four years ago—in which the usual
activity and push have been manifested, as may be
gathered from the fact that already a business has
been built up represented (in 1912) by an issue of
nearly 40,000 policies for sums assuring over a
million and a quarter sterling.”* [2
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is specially useful in
mining work. Connections and disconnections are
easily made, and the expense of laying is reduced to
a minimum. Catalogue from The Australian Wood
Pipe Co.. Ltd., 57 York Street, Sydney (head office).*
In time of war as in peace, the British Govern-
ment are large buyers of the “Hornsby” Oil Engine.
The Irish Lights Board and the Trinity House Cor-
poration, who are responsible for the lighting of the
British coast, have ordered a large number of these
engines, direct coupled to Air Compressors, for safe-
guarding the world’s shipping. For full-particulars
apply R. Hornsby & Sons Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne
and Brisbane.* [1
* * * *
J. Malcolm Newman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Street,
Sydney.*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Ilassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.*
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
PETROLEUM.—George D. Meudell, of S Scott’s
Court, Melbourne, requires boring options or leases
over likely oil areas in Australia. Will give liberal
terms.*
* * * *
“Robey-Leplastrier” Road Building Plants supplied
to 50 Shires in Australia, include Road Locomotives,
Stonebreakers and Elevators, Traction Waggons, Road
Graders, etc., etc. ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
Sydney.*
Mine nTanagers, when requiring
Steam
Boileis, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.*
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to IT. B. Silberberg and Co.. Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to l/1000i
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals ; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobei
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
paid off; and those are the secunties that
are most liable to be thrown on the society s
hands and to cause trouble. ■ StiHj
things are distinctly bad m \ ictoiia,
hasn’t been any sudden smash, cutting -
great many payments simultaneously; and a
recovery shouldn’t be long coming—it is
simply a matter of a couple of good season..
If a' few securities are thrown on the
society’s hands, a little nursing should be all
that is necessary to save it from any su -
stantial loss. It is not at all certain tin
even the present substantial dividend will
b- affected ; for there is a fair surplus now
after paying the 10 p.c., and a certain
amount of shrinkage can occur without
driving the directors down the ladder a step
or two. As for the depositors, they needn t
give their security a second thought.
Tim East Greta Coal Mining Co.
< NSW '> : “
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Sept., ’06.. 2,368 5 p.c. = 3,750 *2,589
Mar., ’07.. 6,666 5„ „ 3,750 2000 9X6 13,50.)
Sept., ’07.. 14,916 10 „ „ 7,500 < 0<)0 416 13,921
Mar ’OB 19 782 10 ~ ~ 7,500 6500 5,>82 19,i00
Sept, ’OB. 16,829 10 ” ” 7’,500 2500 6,829 26,532
Mar., ’09.. 9,510 10 „ „ 7,500 2000 10 26,042
Sept., ’09.. 9,130 10 „ „ 7,500 1630 26,542
Loss.
Mar., ’lO.. 3,073 Nil 23,469
Profits.
Sept., T0..26,263’ 15 p.c. = 11,250 4000 1:l >013 34,482
Mar., ’11..12,665 15 „ „ 11,250 1,415 30,897
Sept., ’11..12,281 10 „ „ 7,500 4,,81 40,678
Mar., ’12.. 8,125 10 „ „ 7,500 3500 37,803
Sept., T2..15,290 10 ~ ~ 7,500 3050 4,740 42,543
Mar., T3..17,664 10 „ „ 7,500 3205 6,909 49,502
Sept., ’13..18.084 10 „ „ 7,500 3303 >,281 56,783
Transferred to capital, £18,750 . . 38,0„3
Mar., T 4.. 16,032 10 p.c. : 9,207 3500 3,325 41,358
Sept., ’14.. 6,400* 5 ~ ~ 4,997 3500 39,261
'lncluding £3OOO dredged out of an inner reserve.
Bad luck has again looked in on this co.
during the six months. Late in the previous
half-year one of its tunnels had to be sealed
on account of a fire, and it was still sealed
when the miners’ strike over the afternoon
shift arrived on May 27, and stopped work
right through the co.’s mines. The railway has,
of course, also been affected by the strike,
and recently by a fire at the Neath as well.
At the time of writing work at the mines has
not been re-started, notwithstanding that
Justice Heydon lately fined the Mine Em-
ployees’ Federation £2OOO and various officials
£5O each for counselling and maintaining
this strike. Unless the Government gets cold
feet and remits the fines, there will be fewer
strikes in future. All the sanie, it is no use
the owners humbugging themselves: the
miners are so hostile to the afternoon shift
that it has got to go. On top of the strike
falls the partial stoppage of the coal trade
on account of the war, so even when the
tunnel is unsealed and the strike is declared
off, the co. cannot hope to reach normal for
a time.
Though the mine was practically idle for
two-thirds of the half-year, receipts were
£(>0.4145. as compared with £129,280 for the
March-September half of 191$, Things, there-
fore, were brisk when the troubles happened
along; and there is every prospect of good
figures again as soon as business is resumed.
The co. now owns the East Greta. Stanford-
Merthyr and Heddon Greta collieries, and
the East Greta-Btanford Merthyr railway of
about 25 miles. The whole lot. excluding the
Ileddon Greta (which is a recent purchase
and of comparatively small account), stands
in the books at £105,540. The substantial
permanent way is itself so big an item that
the mines have plainly been written down
with an axe. The plant item stands at
£128,569. Liabilities, including £28,000 of
debentures, total £36,949, and against that
there are, besides stores, liquid assets amount-
ing to £23,295, as compared with £40,672 six
months ago. But, as already mentioned, the
half-year was nothing to go by, nor will the
current one be. All that shareholders can be
sure of is that the visible ' profits have
hitherto been big. and that a great deal, of
invisible profit has been used up in writing
down assets to far below their true value.
* * * *
Britain has floated its tremendous loan of
£350.000,000, and the stock is quoted already
at half-a-crown premium. It is the most
money ever asked for anywhere in a lump.
It carries 34 p.c., is issued at 95, and has a
currency of 14 years; so. allowing for re-
demption at par, the original investor gets
about £3 19s. 6d. p.c. return. That is mod-
erate enough for a war loan ; but there are
other things to consider besides the interest.
Amongst them is an entirely novel feature —
a guarantee by the Bank of England to
lend 95 p.c. of the face value at 1 p.c. under
Bank rate. This guarantee runs to 1918.
As the stock is issued at 95 p.c. of the face
value, and as the Bank rate is 5 p.c., this
means that the investor can borrow all that
he has paid, getting the accommodation at
4 p.c. Practically it is an announcement that
the Bank will come to the rescue of anybody
who, having himself now come to the rescue
of the Empire, may presently find himself in
temporary difficulties.
* * * *
Occidental, Cobar. has had its usual luck.
After being closed for about a fortnight on
account of water famine, a friendly thunder-
storm came along and gave three or four
months’ supply. Necessary repairs to plant
were put in hand during the spell, and had
not been finished when the rain came.
* * * *
C.H.A., Cobar, spurred on by the un-
friendly demeanor of the Mines Dept., has
collected sufficient men to man the leases
for a time.
The Barrier has had such a remarkable
succession of monsoonal showers that, having
now two reservoirs, Broken Hill has more
water stored up than ever it had before.-
But a mining field cannot live by water
alone. The output of spelter being unsaleable
and the other markets being disturbed, those
Broken Hill mines which are doing best are
working only half-time.
Hawkin’s Hill Reward (N.S.W.) : August,
llloz.; September, 131 oz.; October, 151 oz.
Returns will go on improving for a while,
but they will have to improve a lot to do
anything for 80,000 shares. A reef only a
few inches thick cannot be expected to pro-
vide a big tonnage unless it is very exten-
sively opened up; and then the end isn't
long coming. Shareholders may get a divi-
dend or two when more preparations at the
320 ft. and 200 ft. levels have been made; but
on present appearances they shouldn’t expect
many. Nothing but a remarkable enrich-
ment of the ore can change the prospects in
this respect.
* * * *
De Bavay, founder of the Amalgamated
Zinc, one of the two big Broken Hill spelter
cos., doesn’t see much hope of an early re-
sumption of the European business of
smelting the concentrates which these cos.
produce. Most of the work, he says, was
done at battered Liege and in Germany. So
remote are the chances of a vigorous start
even when the war ends that De
Bavay, who has just returned to Australia,
thinks his co. should go in for smelting its
own concentrates in England, taking across
Belgians to man the furnaces. Feeding the
furnaces —really small clay retorts —doesn’t
look the most expert job in the world; but
there’s a knack in it. md the experience of
the Sulphide Corporation’s offspring, the
Central Zinc Co., is that the English laborer
won’t stick at it long enough to master the
knack. But if the Belgian has to be intro-
duced. why introduce him to England?
* * * *
Silver being, of its products, the most
easily saleable after gold, the Broken Hill
Prop, is gouging out ore rich in this metal.
Last month’s run from the Pjrie furnaces
gave 1668 tons lead and 134,7550 z. silver—
about 80oz. silver to the ton of bullion. This
will, of course, be refined on the spot, and the
local and Asiatic markets are expected to
absorb the output.
* * * #
As far as inquiries have gone—and they
have gone now pretty well to the end —the
only Australian mining or ore-buying
firm to be prosecuted under the Trading
with the Enemy Act is F. H. Snow, ihe
Australian representative of the llirsch-
Rothschild metal interests. The inquiry
as to the Broken Hill Prop.’s transactions
has not been completed yet.
* * * *
“Oof Bird” (W.A.) : Edna May is steadily
adding to its reserves. Despite the ore sent
to the mill from the No. 1 level during the
past half-year, the tonnage in sight around
that point is greater than the official estimate
of six months ago. No 2 level is. showing a
longer run of ore than was anticipated, and
in No. 3 level it is maintaining width and
value. The 4ft. parallel vein recently cut at
this level is also worth a bit, and others may
be found. There is talk of a general reorgan-
isation and enlargement of the plant, with a
view to treating 4000 tons monthly. The
mine is now in the front row of the State’s
profit-earners.... Mary Mac is credited with
having crushed 800 tons last month for about
£9OO worth of gold. This falls far short of
what the co. reckoned it was going to get
when it bought out the tributors. . . .Chaffer’s
return from the first month’s run of the re-
modelled mill was worth £5501, plus £2OOO
alleged to be locked up in the plant. The
result is several shillings below the estimated
average of the ore reserves, and is not calcu-
lated to strengthen what little confidence is
left in the stock. Another assessment, with
an accompanying tale about what the mine is
going to do, is nearly due. . . .Edna May Cen-
tral : Returns are not likely to show any
marked improvement for some time to come.
The reef at No. 2 level is on the small side
and could do with more gold, but an
increase in width and value will probably take
place as the drive is extended west towards
the Edna May.
-X- * * *
There is no end of quiet growling by Kal-
goorlie bears about the way some of them have
been squeezed over the Golden Horseshoe.
There is a firm belief that, with a patchy
reef at the bottom level, a big depth to haul
and costs on the up-grade, George Sutherland
can’t get on the dividend list and stay there.
Another obstacle is the debenture debt, and
there is also the “bromo” lawsuit. Yet ’Shoes,
after three months’ war, stand the firmest of
all Australian shares in London.
* * * *
Kalgurli’s output for the year ended last
July was £255,490. Working costs (19s.
lid.) were a trifle more than in the pre-
vious 12 months, and the extraction per-
centage was a shade less. But these
adverse factors were offset by the treatment
of better-grade ores. The reserves, esti-
mated at 200,000 tons, are 50,000 tons less
than they were supposed to be the previous
year. Extensive diamond drilling in the
deep ground has failed to strike anything
encouraging.
* If * *
Golden Ridge’s accounts for the half-year
ended Bept. 30 show a surplus over working
costs of £4985 ; but after writing off £5503
for development, depreciation, etc., there is
a deficiency of £5lB. Liquid assets, com-
prising fixed deposits, bullion reserve and
cash, total £20,540. Practically- no hope is
now entertained of making any fresh dis-
coveries in the co.’s present mine, and unless
a new one is obtained within the next six
months, the co. will probably have to give
up business and distribute the assets among
shareholders. Several shows have been
sampled in the last 18 months, but not one
was considered to be worth buying. Since
March, 1907, the co. has won easily half a
million pounds’ worth of gold and paid over
£150,000 in dividends on a capital of £50,000,
so it has not much to grumble at.
* * * *
Great Boulder (W.A.) has bored from
the end of the 1300 ft. level crosscut in the
adjoining Perseverance mine and cut 7ft. of
lOdwt. and Oft. of lldwt. ore. In the early
days the eo. worked a nice ore body known
as Robertson’s lode near the eastern boun-
dary, but it became dog-poor at a shallow
depth and was left alone. Years after a
borehole was extended towards the Perse-
verance from one of the deep levels of Ham-
ilton’s shaft at the northern end of the
property, but did not locate anything worth
blowing about. In fact, all the drilling,
hitherto done in this part of Boulder ground
has been disappointing. The new finds are
therefore unexpectedly cheerful.
* * * *
Whim Well Copper Co. (W.A.) was a
consenting party to the appointment of a
receiver and manager in London. The
mine 'lias been closed down since the war
started and ‘is likely to lie dormant for
some time, as the principal sources from
which it obtained financial support have
been either killed or wounded.
# *
The first shaft-freezing job in Victoria is
through at Great Poseidon. The drift is as
sloppy as ooze, but the freezer compacted it
so that a cut has been made through it as
though it were cheese. After a layer of solid
rock was gone through, the shaft ran on to
the wash, and from one corner the freezers
scraped up Jdwt. gold. This is a good pros-
pect. and as surface bores near-by sampled
well, the Russell group, with Fairbairn, may
yet see a market. The latest talk is of tying
the King Poseidon on to the Great Poseidon.
This would give area and a bigger calling
power. Outside the Russells no one hankers
after the ground ; so there is no valid reason
why the two shouldn’t be welded.
Manager Bryan finds history repeating
itself at the Cathcart Central (Vic.). When
he went into the Cathcart a lot of dead work
had been done by 8., M. and Co., so he was
soon in good ground. In Cathcart Central,
when Bryant stepped into D. 11. Browne’s
ample goloshes, the rich run of gold south-
east of the shaft was in front of him. Since
then he has been developing this all-right
stuff in his own excellent way. Truck-load
samples go pretty well as rich as those that
led to the booming of Cathcart, but there
isn’t the same market to-day to let Ballarat
engineer a second coup. Even if there re-
main 4000 ft. of the gutter down to the New
Langi lease, the wary bird reckons that the
present level won’t be deep enough to work
that length of lead. This would mean
sinking another shaft l?o a deeper level and a
stiff cut out of profits.
* * * *
Walhalla thanks its luck that it took on
the Long Tunnel when the Pearson-Rowe
crowd threw up the sponge. Helped by the
Government, the new eo. has been pushing on
with the level at 3500 ft. and sinking a couple
of winzes at 3350 ft. From No. 1 a crosscut
at 86ft. ran into the lode, and some old-
fashioned prospects showed up. This bit of
plum-pudding stone was needed, for it was
hard to keep the callpayer breasting the tape.
Walhalla holds on to the old claim because
its folk have implicit faith that the 3500
level will pick up gold under the winzes,
and because it is cheaper to keep the mine
going than to shift furniture.
Victorian managers have a notion that
“payable” ore should mean stone that will
pay working expenses; “fair,” stuff giving a
profit: “good,” that which is worth loz. or
more per ton. But why not report all values
in sterling? Further, why talk of ounces or
pennyweights at all in mining? If a mana-
ger says the ore in the end of the drive or in
the rise above or winze below is worth 6dwt.,
one has to reckon up how much that is worth
sterling, and if the average worth of the
bullion from the mine is not given, there is
nothing to snide the inquirer as to its value.
Troy measurement is really a great nuisance
in gold mining, and in many cases seems to be
only maintained to hide the ignorance of the
management. * *
Annan River Tin (N.Q.) is still in the
slough. It made a loss of £l6l last half-
year. Some of the dirt averaged only Mb.
of tin oxide, and costs smothered that.
* * * *
Mount Morgan’s bumper return of 800 tons
of blister in four weeks, following 731 tons
in October and 715 tons in September, is
encouraging the Stock Exchanges. But it
is usual near the end of the company’s half-
year to turn secondary products into metal;
so a bumper return in November or May
isn’t absolute proof that the ore is becoming
richer.
* * * *
South Aus., which has always prided itself
on the solidity of its buildings, and will not
allow that anybody but the dog should be
expected to use a house made of wood, has
been going in heavily for reinforced concrete
of late. There is a Cement Co. at Brighton.
It went to that quiet seaside spot to be near
its raw material. Now another works has been
started right alongside a wharf in Port Adel-
aide. Contractor Timms, F. C. Howard and
the other solid people behind the new ven-
ture. reckon that the advantage of position
will make up for having to bring to it the
stone, part from Dry Creek and part
from Yorke’s Peninsula. With German
cement out of the running there should
be work enough for both cos., though if all
the projected and allegedly-floated cement
cos. in N. 8. Wales and Queensland lay
down the plants they have talked about, the
thing will be tremendously overdone.
Adelaide is having more luck than it de-
serves with the Motor ’Bus Services,
Limited, which it permitted to be formed to
knock spots off the publicly-owned and
municipally-run Tramways Trust. The co.
spends its time, so far, in calling’ itself
names. Freeman, the originator and in-
tending managing director, was not wanted
by the Adelaide directors. He has conse-
quently held one public meeting, at which
he claimed the sympathy of shareholders,
and another —very long and noisy—at which
he and the directors exchanged compliments.
Most of the trouble appears to be over Free-
man’s agency for the Benz motor-’bus, and
the directors’ preference for a Tilling-Stevens
make. The row is still unfinished,
* * * *
E. 11.8.: Last notice B. 1/1/T.4. This
year’s accounts not out yet f.W.M.: Can
do no more than refer you to the last post-
mortems —B. 11/6/T4 and B. 10/3/’l-4.


Charles
Hem®
Vintage 1906
CMFIP/im
HE PLUS DLTRfI
á
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
TEN YEARS OLD.
MADAME JEANNE BROLA IN ARDUOUS
OPERATIC ROLES.
THE BEAIJTIFUL-VOICED SOPRANO WRITES AN
EXPERT MEDICAL OPINION.
It has been the surprise and delight of music-lovers
and theatre-goers to witness the lavish display of
vocal ability and operatic talent so unquestionably
possessed by Madame Jeanne Brola, the distinguished
soprano of the recent Quinlan Opera Company.
Many of her singing rfiles were prominently opposed
to each other, vet she was as much at home in
“Madame Butterfly” as in “La Boheme,” and as
much so in “The Girl of the Golden West” as in
“Aida.” It appeared natural to her in that what-
ever she did she did well.
Madame Brola during the 1913 season deservedly
became intensely popular with Australin music-
lovers, but she freely admitted that so great and
exhausting had been her duties that she would un-
doubtedly have suffered FROM A GREAT MENTAL
AND PHYSICAL BREAKDOWN were it not for the
fact that she took Clements Tonic, the ideal medi-
cine for the artiste and professional. Her tribute to
this splendid strength-giving and health-preserving
medicine has been often published for the public
good, and should he read by all professional and
commercial persons who at times suffer from brain-
fag, anaemia, physical fatigue or nerve weakness.
Ladies of society who suffer from nervousness,
caused by exacting social duties, and who suffer
from brain-fag or insomnia in consequence, should
use this medicine because it induces restful, sooth-
ing and invigorating sleep.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL CLEMENTS
TONIC EVERYWHERE.
Otard Brandy
15 YEARS OLD
IS A TRUE COGNAC BRANDY.
Otard Brandy is the pure distillation of the grape,
matured for years in the f amous historic Chateau de
Cognac, where Francois 1.. King of France, was born.
I his Chateau now forms the cellars and premises of
THE MAISON OTARD-DUPUY. For sickness or
health, as a liqueur or as a beverage, there is no spirit
to equal.
OTARD (15 Year) BRANDY
©
fegiyiyi
*A'A«. (■/&*] ,
5) ©Mi?
. S @<SK3A®
p «on„ r .
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, November 23, 1914.
My Dear Arini, —
Senator Milieu, who was Mr. Pearce’s pre-
decessor at the Australian War Office, said
something in the House the other afternoon
about the extraordinary delav in getting
the first expeditionary force afloat.
Everybody in Svdney, and most people in
most other Australian places, expected an
earlier embarkation; ar.d when the days
went on and the troopships still rode at
anchor, the whisper was passed round —-
given, of couse, with the usual military set-
ting—that Mr. Fisher disapproved of the
composition of the convoy, but that his pro-
test had been met with a dreadful snub. Of
course there wasn’t a word of truth in the
silly story. There was no snub, for the very
excellent reason that there was no protest—
nor any thought of a protest.
Lieutenant-Commander Besant, R.N., who
perished in the Australian submarine AEI,
was a nephew of the late novelist of that
name. His father was a Chatham Dock
official. As a youngster Tom Besant loved
to swagger round in sailor togs. At the
age of four, or thereabouts, he told the late
•Duke of Edinburgh that he (Tom) “meant
to be a sailor and fight and die for his
country.”
The N.S.W. division of the Red Cross
Society is going to mobilise the public at a
meeting in the Town Hall on Monday even-
ing, December 7. Governor Strickland will
take the chair.
Ex-Governor Islington (M.L.) offered his
town house, Chesterfield Gardens (London),
for use as a hospital. After a little coy
hesitation, the War Contingent Association
had to say “No, thank yon; our funds
don’t run to it.”
The newly-arrived British infant is being
heavily trimmed with names plucked from
(lie tug-of-war. Alsace Lorraine Jones, Joffre
Brown, John French Sniith-Dorrien, Louvain
Jenkinson and RenDenkampf Nicholas
Moscow Robinson are bMng carried captive
and helpless to the baptismal font. Likewise
there is Lemberg Johnson.
Did you notice that little Wales is raising
an army of between 80,000 and 90,000 men
for the Big Fight? I wonder if this, the
first big national flurry Llewellyn ap Some-
thing has made for Britain since the Welsh-
men fought at Crecy, will set forth with
harp accompaniment.
Russell French, general manager of the
Bank of New South Wales, is in a fair way
to acquire a small presentation art gallery.
Last year his brother-officers conspired to
present him with 100 guineas’ worth of art,
and chose a handsome bit of the harbor as
painted by E. Griiner. This month they
have done the same thing at the same price.
The latest purchase is a large canvas with an
expanse of mountain and gum-tree and blue
atrmvphere. Griiner’s father was a Nor-
wegian, by the way, and a relative of the
same name is a fairly conspicuous art figure
in Paris.
Young lan Maxwell, who was killed in
the carnage a few weeks ago, was a grand-
son of the late lawyer-politician Wigram
Allen, for many years Speaker of the N.S.W.
Assembly. Ilis mother was that Mabel
Allen, whose forget-me-not blue eyes and
corn-colored hair made her a Sydney belle.
Mrs. Maxwell came back to her native town
on a visit a while ago, but she mostly lives
on the other side.
The Repertory Theatre’s week of Austra-
lian plays included Arthur Adams’s “Mrs.
Pretty and the Premier” as the strong meat
of the menu. The souffles consisted of
various snacks of comedy and drama. Among
the short one-act plays there was an incisive
matrimonial argument called “Trapped.” This
playlet, modestly described as “a Bush Epi-
sode,” by ????, is a model of swift action.
At Saturday evening’s performance the
acting of the two principals —James Stokes,
the hypochondriac bushie “Jim,” and Ruby
Coxhead, the reluctant Mrs. Jim (torn from
the former joys of Surry Hills) —was a pal-
pitating bit of realism. The scene dashes to
its tragic terminus by the red glow of the
fire in Jim’s bush shanty. Cries of
“Author!” at last produced the man who
was responsible for the thrill. D. 11.
Souter, the artist of the familiar cat,
climbed on to the stage and bowed round one
of the wings in response to the clamor.
Mr. Mann, chief of the National Gallery
in Sydney, visited the most belligerent part
of Europe before the row began. Instead,
therefore., of fleeing from the enemy’s rude
remarks, this art-taster was able to get round
Germany at his ease. He has brought back
with him a delicate Brangwyn water color,
and a portrait study by J. J. Shannon,
R.A.. whose work is always illustrated in the
annual Academy booklet.
Dick Nevill is said to have joined the
Connaught household in Canada as controller
of the official menage. This is about the same
billet as that of Chamberlain on the Den-
man staff, though a Controller may not have
to flourish the long white wand with which
Richard the Tall used to prod his way round
Government House ballroom. The ducal
Gonnangurs were leaving Canada, but some-
thing altered their plans. No doubt Con-
troller Nevill will steer Ottawa Society as
carefully to the refreshment table as lie
guided the ever-hungry outposts of Australian
Society to the vice-regal ham sandwich here.
Memorial services for gallant “Bobs” have
been overflowing this city. There was a big
open-air wail of regret in Martin Place the
other noon, during the lunch-hour promenade
round the G.P.O. On Sunday morn St.
Andrew’s Cathedral was crammed with offi-
cial millinery, to record in sympathetic
silence the loss of the great little soldier,
while the Anglican Archbish. thundered forth
the text.
Squatter Vivers and his wife —she was
the beautiful Irene Marks —fled from the
recent steam-laundry heat of the city to the
Mountains. The King’s Plains sheep-
owner took a medical degree in his green
and salad days, but he doesn’t like it men-
tioned. He prefers to be a pastoralist in-
stead of being violently rung up to mend a
broken limb or see if little Tommy has a
gumboil. Mrs. A. A. Dangar and her
daughters are also sheltering at the Carring-
ton. Ivatoomba.
Norah Taylor, a good-looking Sydney girl,
who was much admired by our Best Young
Men, has married a Ceylon tea planter
named Greville Bell. The wedding occurred
in the tropic isle of Taprobane, and the
groom is said to be arming for the fight and
the dispersion of K. William.
The Benevolent Society of N.S.W. (aged
102 years, so it is a real centenarian in a
land where most centenarians are boeus)
holds out the hat for any coin the citizen can
find in an unraided pocket. The Society’s
Christmas pamphlet. “Yule Tide,” is quite a
good looking little effort. This vear it pants
with patriotism; and reproduces various
bloodthirsty war scenes by famous battle-
field artists. Incidentally it A's for plum
pudding and other Christmas fare for 1000
youngsters.
The Society of Artists’ show was opened
on one of the afternoons that the locust has
eaten, by the Minister for Education, in the
presence of a large and heated multitude.
Julian Aslito'n, as chief of the society, had
been more or less violently restrained by his
friends from disappearing, as is his wont,
while the hum of admiration was in full
blast. Thereafter he had to bear up under
the congratulations of his acquaintances con-
cerning the excellence of the exhibition in
the Queen Victoria sarcophagus—or market,
or crypt, or tomb; or catacomb, or something
of the sort.
Hon. sec. John Lane Mullins, who now
dabbles extensively in wrought jewellery (he
caught the germ in Florence a year or two
ago), rejoiced to see such a fine collection of
artists moving about the premises. The two
Lindsays (Norman and Lionel) were there;
and Florence Rodway, whose beautiful
portrait-studies, notably “Barbara,” a
pretty baby with violet eyes dewy with
dreams, these lured the public gaze. Byd
Ure Smith, Ilarry Julius, the thin,
aesthetic Griiner, and other artistic per-
sons edged through the throng. The Max-
well Allans, George Titheradge and his fair-
haired daughter (Mrs. Knowles) ; the vet-
eran art-lover, Mrs. George lianken; Judge
Backhouse, and the Macneill Simpsons
tramped round the show, which was full of
interest and thronged with the Best Hats.
A Tasmanian girl, M. O. Pink, has a good
display of repousse leather at this show. She
gives a strong gum-leaf and Christmas bell
flavor to her work.
Killara golf links officially closed its sea-
son a week or two ago ; but gasping enthusi-
asts still plod round its hundred-acre course.
The goff house is an airy chalet perched on
a green mound, wreathed with flowers. In
its wide verandahs the goffer can sit at
ease —he does sit down sometimes —and gaze
at the last exhausted climb of the patient
person who has been industriously hitting
the little white ball over the landscape.
Killara links are possibly the most pictur-
esque the person in baggy trousers and Nor-
folk jacket and cap can find in N.S.W. Mrs.
Graham, the sporting little woman who has
captained the lady goffers on those rolling
downs for the last six years, can, even in
this weather, do a 10-mile round without
making any fuss about it. So the close sea-
son for golf must be regarded as merely an
official expression in the northern suburbs.
German women are said to be so keen
about the war that they are putting their
wedding rings into the melting pot, to help
pay the bill. The Kaiser has organised
the iron-ring decoration, with the magic let-
tering “Wilhelm II.” to meet the slump in
plain gold bands. There is a precedent for
this sort of thing. The Carthaginian ladies
cut off their hair and gave it to their country
to make ropes for the use of the fleet.
Goring Thomas died suddenly in England
last month. He always described himself
as an Australian novelist; for, though he
was born in Paris, and came of Welsh
parents, he spent most of his life in this
continent, chiefly in Melbourne. He left
in 1904 to devote himself seriously to the
Inky Way, and thereafter travelled a good
deal, using England as headquarters. Gor-
ing Thomas was one of the. last of the
velvet-coat brigade —an artistic tradition
which is retiring into moth-balls even in the
Latin Quarter.
A friend in London forwards a recent pro-
gramme of the Empire Theatre. Fred
Leslie and Ivy Schilling were doing their
weird jiu-jitsu dance at this house; but the
lady was no longer afflicted with the Teu-
tonic “c” in her name. She has discreetly
cut it out. “Shilling” is plain and neat and
leads to no complications. It may be con-
densed to “bob,” and “Bobs” is a name that
counts for a lot in England just now.
I'all Mall Gazette foams over in a vain
effort to describe the antiquity of the
Rarttelot family. “Since the Conquest” is
the vague date when the first Bart'telot
squatted on the soil at Stopliam. Com-
mander Nigel of that ilk was killed in the
recent naval fight off Heligoland. His only
brother, baronet Walter, who was here on
G.-G. Denman’s staff, was wounded a few
weeks ago in France. He is remembered
as one of the few English aides who was not
content to see Australia through a club
window. With his swag of bread and jam
and tinned beef he rode some hundreds of
miles in the Northern Territory, in company
with a mounted trooper. An interchange
of jam, damper and ideas, by camp fires,
gave the sporting Englishman a warm appre-
ciation of “the best Australian of them all—
the pioneer.”
Dominie Carter, of Barker’s College,
Hornsby, and his wife and daughter, have
been on a six months’ holiday trip in
Europe. They had the luck to see some of
the ancient towns of northern France that
have since been turned into smouldering
ashes because the infuriated Teuton rushed
into the battle gnashing his lager bier and
waving his sauerkraut round his head. The
Carters are very pleased to wake up in the
mornings and hear, once more, the peaceful,
homely bang of the Hornsby milkman on
the academy’s back gate.
Dr. Vivian Rich, a graduate of Sydney
’Varsity, has thrown up his billet at the
Tottenham (London) Hospital, to do the
usual thing.
Mrs. Lister-Lister was At Home in the
Royal Art Society’s very warm eyrie on
Saturday afternoon. A wild southerly buster
came along just as most of the company was
making for the Gallery. In consequence,
some of the visitors were more or less blown
out of the lift, and fell into the party with a
hurt expression.
President Lister-Lister and artists Salvana
and Jackson toiled round with refreshments.
French Consul-General Chayet strolled about
the rooms when the music took one bar rest.
Jessie McWilliams, a young contralto from
Junee, was the most promising musical bud
to climb the little dais near Alfred Coffey’s
reliable impression of the blue-grey veil
woven by bush-fire smoke. Fred Leist’s dash-
ing bit of color, “Gipsies at a London Cab-
aret,” made a gorgeous background to Jessie’s
slim, girlish figure and dark, gazelle-like eyes.
(N.B. —I have never seen a gazelle.) Lilian
Frost played most of the accompaniments—a
noble feat in the R.A. Society’s glassy-roofed
habitation these vapor-bath days.
Percival Fyans Curtis, a son of the late
Dr. Cortis, of Bathurst, and grandson of
Captain Foster Fyans, of the 4th Regiment,
was recently wed to Dorrie May, daughter
of the late John Martin, of Forbes. The
groom’s father was a well-known sporting
surgeon, who broke up his home and his
racing stable to become an M.L.A (1887-9).
Grandfathej; Fyans was on Norfolk Island
when Colonel Morriset was Commandant.
He was one of those whom the convicts
threatened to turn into mincemeat —and
didn’t. Captain Fyans left the army to
take a billet as Crown Lands Commissioner
at Gukrong, and settled at Fyans’ Ford, on
the Moorabool.
Grace Watson offered the bun of welcome
to little Amy Mack (Mrs. Lance Harrison)
when she had unpacked her best frock in
London. The Harrisons left here when the
first explosion in Belgium was a few days
old, and they had a fairly exciting run to
the grey old Thames city. Lance Harrison,
B.Sc., who won the Coutts Research
scholarship, is going to put in two years at
Cambridge. His special hobby is a zoologi-
cal campaign in search of Australian
parasites.
Artist Thea Proctor, whose London camp
is in the Chelsea circle, was ruralising in
Oxfordshire when the last mail bolted down
the Channel.
Miss Duncan, the first woman inspector
of factories in N.S.W., was in Holland
when the sound of Bill’s guns echoed on the
borders. Being advised to get out as quickly
as she could, Miss Duncan “got” with con-
siderable alacrity. Now she is safely home
again in Sydney, where the peace is broken
only by the cicada chirping to the evening
breeze.
I)r. Isabel Ormiston, of Tasmania, is hon.
medical superintendent of the home for
Belgian refugees at Ostend. This is the
Kursaal. which has been turned inside out,
chiefly for the benefit of women and children.
Over 3000 of these sufferers are under the
supervision of the lady whose, ordinary job
is to inspect the eyes and ears and toothache
of the small Jam Islander.
The Harry Levy family is back in Sydney.
Uncle Sep, of the wealthy tribe, made a hur-
ried bolt out of one portion of a humble penny
tram the other day. The excitement was
due to the presence of a recently-returned
niece in the adjoining co apartment. Hav-
ing been almost walked over in the process,
the startled Gentiles could only mumble that
the patriarchal habits of the amiable Hebrew
gentleman were liable to get him bumped
out on his nose.
Mary Gaunt, the Australian writer who
wanders into unbeaten tracks, had the luck
to be in Eastern Siberia when the Bear was
mobilising and getting his sheepskin out of
the moth-balls. The British censor viewed
her statements and let anything he con-
sidered good for the public to hear trickle
into the Morning Post. These were the
little lambs that Mary saw:—
Down the swamp that was, by courtesy, called a
road, came endless streams of khaki-covered carts,
driven by men in flat caps and belted khaki shirts,
big fair men, often giants, with red, sun-tanned faces
and lint-white hair. They shouted and laughed and
sang and threw up their caps, and were as sober as
Judges—(Mary’s father was a Judge, so she is pro-
bably prejudiced)—and yet wild with excitement....
They were going to the war—the war that is so
sacred in Russia that even the fact that no soldier
can get drunk damps not one whit the intense
enthusiasm.
The Veterans’ Home concert in the Town
Hall actually began in George-street. Brass
bands split the welkin, which must be a
thing of tatters by this time, and uniformed
persons, including a choice selection of kilts,
tramped up the street to the wild “ ’ooray”
of the urchin on the pavement. A free show
outside a building is usually a policy of
despair. It may lure a few of the street
crowd to pay to go i-n and see what all the
fuss is about. On the other hand, the un-
emotional citizen is more apt to saunter off
into the night. Something like this hap-
pened to the Veterans. From the outside
you got the impression of a gigantic crowd
elbowing its way into the hall; inside the
illusion was smashed by an army of 500 or
so stark chairs, half filling the hall with
unprofitable emptiness. Mrs. Margaret
Rutter, the kindly and strenuous hon. sec.
of the committee, floated round town with
a lump in her throat, owing to the heartless
conduct of the public in not rushing the
proceedings, and the consuls for France, Bel-
gium and Japan blinked patiently on the
foreshores of a strip of Axminster.
The concert itself was long and almost
incredibly dull. Some 500 school children,
impounded to uplift their piping treble in a
patriotic outbreak, had a joyous time before-
hand. While a mild young man with a
thick mop of hair tried to suppress the little
girls, who were in the throes of great giggles,
the little boys broke loose. Lawrence Camp-
bell essayed the “Relief of Lucknow,” but
after about 15 minutes gave it up as a bad
job, owing to the joyful clatter of the in-
fants at the rear. The most successful item
was the arrival of the fine old veterans, who
had an ovation from the audience when they
marched on to the platform. Many of them
are old Crimean and Indian Mutiny men.
The programme progressed in heats, with
intervals in which a juvenile ballet played
round the gallery posts. When the baby of
the ballet made a sporting effort to walk up
this post, she was admonished by the other
young ladies in frothy skirts to get down and
wait patiently till her turn came. Lieuten-
ant Commander Jackson, of 11.M.A.5. Una
{nee Komet), was handed a fife or some-
thing as a symbol of the band presentation
to his crew. Colonel Wallack got a similar
trophy on behalf of the Light Horse Regi-
ment. Chief Justice Cullen made the pre-
sentations for the Sydney Women’s band
fund committee. Both warriors mercifully
refrained from giving a musical performance,
and the entertainment came to an end, as
all things must, with “Rule Britannia.”
This business of maintaining a Veterans’
Home is a thing of national importance.
It cannot be attempted with success by a
few worthy women, unless the public backs
them up with big subscriptions; and the
public’s big subscriptions are as uncertain
as rain at Tibooburra.
Pianist Margaret Edson, of this city, was
lately studying the profounder depths of har-
mony in Berlin. Her practised ear detected
discord in the distance, and she left the
danger zone before the rigors of internment
got into working order.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
• •_
-i ■
m
x'ir
/?
"tf’SSi
••“V «>
M
'%k
-yy
\\
l
t&Sf'.
4**
':/■■■
n
>»
A
O,
&
IP
SW®
-v
Mi?
y y ; t • -3pasr4ds«
i \ mmk
-.: i
w
i Iwii
as
*v
ffifflSSS®
4£?
*
&£**
yV r7Z?
V
/?V
<&ry.«£
i ~jm§o
/V 7
A&A$
<v
I Jpl
%
274'
m
h
m
&
WM
iiffi.
/• p
QtX
s®
» 1 |
4///k# 'vw .'7
4 y m,' wiy l
- Mp|
v
.
K
Kf-S
sf-'r
iy
■pj
rt’y
*5
2
m
i
i&w?
/v
iC
e-.- i
rx
£
<l^
a
;jy
541%
Y £
a
fii
a© 1
*y
Ls h c.
mt
r
((
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
FI ere attends
A big review.
Companies and
Squadrons pace
Past the flagged
O O
Saluting base.
Pennons flutter,
Cold steel shines
Q ! er the ready
“COBRA” lines.
Swift and clean
Their work will be
When they meet
The enemy.


Fitted Dressing Cases
ARE IDEAL XMAS GIFTS FOR MEN.
Being' both handsome and practical, Farmer's Fitted
Dressing Cases appeal to men of taste.
No. FR'4.
The Case featured hangs up when in use, as illus-
trated, but when packed folds into a very small com-
pass, measuring 7i x 4 x 4 inches.
It is made of Solid Leather and fitted with superior
quality Fittings, comprising 2 Real Ebony ITair
Brushes, Comb, Bevelled Mirror, Razor and Strop.
Shaving Brush and Soap Case Price 21/-
11V.’ Pay the Carriage.
N.8.-—When ordering these Dressing Cases please
quote No. FR4.
Farmer’s, Sydaey.
Pitt, Market & George Streets.
f® 1
f=sl
an
HL!
EXASPERATION at poor and unreadable pencopies
■can be avoided by the use of Zanetie paper. When
used in Penduplicate Books, in place of carbon paper,'
it ensures perfect, pei'manent duplicates and unsoiled*
originals with ease. Free sample and full particulars''
if stamped envelope be sent to Zanetio Works, j
Leicester, England,*
Motoring
Cost® less
when your Car
;s fitted with...*
HI
0
The reason is the
extra service they
undoubtedly give .
This accounts for the
great popularity of
“Dunlops” amongst
Motorists, who have
proved these Reliable
Tyres unequalled for
Strength and Durability.
Order “Dunlops” and
have the best—they cost
no more, but you get
extra mileage and tyre
satisfaction.
PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION.
OBTAINABLE ALL GARAGES.
m
V-
-7/1
J'H'C
DUNLOP
RUBBER
CO.
All State*
and N.Z.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 23, 5914.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Colonel Morris, who married Dora Wesley
Hall, is dead after all. He was first said
to be wounded. Then a story came through
lhat someone had taken a watch —which
turned out to be his—from lhe dead body of
an unrecognisable officer. Then the story
was contradicted with heat. Now there is
a tendency to regard it as true. Anyhow, he
is gone. They were only married a few
months ago.
Judge Parker, of Westrnlia, is here with
two of his daughters, the fair-haired Mildred
and brunette Dollie, Mrs. Phyllis Reggie
Power’s particular chum.
Maggie Stirling’s daughter, the big girl
with the pink cheeks, thei blue eyes and a
Voice, is engaged for a nuptial duet with
l>r. Oroombe. Amongst other things he is
one of our most famous “best men.”
Last Thursday was bala.nee-sheot day at
lhe Austral Salon, and a proud occasion for
the members. Mrs. Treasurer Well), in a
lovely jet-fringed black gown, remarked, with
a palpable effort to subdue any appearance
of arrogance, that she had never let the bank
balance got below £lOO. Blushingly she
admitted that it took some financing, and
those present acclaimed her as though they
had been State Premiers in the presence of
Cohen himself. Mrs. Secretary Sadlier, in
glittering blue and the neatest of coiffures,
told of the good work done during the year.
She also apologised gracefully for the
absence of the usual Educational Paper.
Never before had it been missed at such a
gathering. The audience made a resolute
effort to conceal its bitter disappointment.
In fact, the acting was so superb you
couldn’t have told that anybody was disap-
pointed. A few men sat in sodden misery
through a long programme, looking as though
they wished a few Army Corps of the
Kaiser’s “blonde beasts” could be forced to
undergo a similar ordeal.
The council of the Royal Vic. Nurses’
Association said good-bye in the usual man-
ner to the ministering angels who are leav-
ing. The deed was done in the
dining-room of the Grand Hotel, and
the usual provisions and flags were in
evidence. The supply of men was painfully
inadequate, but I noticed Jensen, who helps
the busy Minister for Defence, and Fincham,
treasurer of the Association. I fear the
main reason for their presence lay in the
fact that they couldn’t well avoid coming—-
still one lias to be grateful for anything in
the male line these days. Miss Bell, of the
Melbourne Hospital, who has been made
superintendent of the Australian Base
Healing Establishment, delivered a stirring
a rati on.
Lady Denman is ex-president of the Salon,
and so the members decided to send her a
message of sympathy over the death of her
lirother. He was here towards the end of
the Denman regime—a slight, fair young
man with the family nose and an amiable
manner. His smart, dark young wife wore
the most angelic frocks.
Talking of this family, the ex-G.-G. leaves
for the front shortly with a Yeomanry Regi-
ment. His health was more or less ruined
in the S’African campaign—the aftermath
of enteric —but these troubles are details to
British folk of his type in the present crisis.
When I spoke of the misery of the men
at the Salon party I forgot the little hand
of newly-engageds who were there with their
loved ones. One pair was beautifully dressed.
The young man’s boiled shirt was the most
delicious garment in its class I have seen
since the war began, and with it the exodus
of A.D.C’s.
A fete for the Foundling Hospital will
happen at the Palais de Danse on
December 2.
A horrible whisper is abroad —a rumor
that has begun to eat into the vitals of
Society like a canker-worm. Folks say
bitterly that The Case is to be squared out
of court. Think of the priceless opportuni-
ties for ground and loftly moralising that will
be lost if this calamity occurs. Picture the
geyser of ..unctuous scandal that will be cut
off at the meter —if geysers are measured.
While I am on this subject, robbers got
into the Picturesque One’s house last week
and removed two diamond tiaras, a few pearl
necklaces, and some rubies—for use on wash-
ing day, at breakfast and on similar occa-
sions. Anyhow, the daily papers insinuate
something like that, and Truth, as we all
know, lives in the lift-wells of these institu-
tions, and is treated by them as a household
pet. •
Oliver .Tames Addison, of the McPhairson
ironmongery, is back from his honey-mote.
You will remember that he married the
niece of his boss, who mongers but little, by
the way, since he won Swinburne’s Haw-
thorn seat. (It is difficult —in fact, practi-
cally impossible—to sell iron and save the
country at one and the same time.) The
niece was Miss Annette Eady before the mar-
riag't* a daughter of the Ke\v family of that
name.
I' I'orn “Rosna,” in London:—
Jlie ( Ri j>e Paris and Echo de France are being 1
sold in the . streets here bv vvliite-frocked damsels
wearing- a tri-color sash. The cute idea is to do busi-
ness with the Belgian and French refugees. (There
are 60,000 Belgians in England.) The Paha
Mail publishes a regular column of news in Flemish
ior the benefit of the poorer Belgians, who have no
other language.
London papers announce that naturalisation has
been granted to Alary Annette, Countess Arnim.
Alary, who is the author of “Elizabeth and Her Ger-
man Garden,’’ “The Oaravaners” and other delightful
books, is an Australian by birth and upbringing. She
is distantly related to the Lassetters, of the big
Sydney shop. Her Teuton husband died in 1909. But
that fact did not de-Germanise lvr. Hence the letters
of naturalisation.
\\ inifred Honey, the Melbourne Gallery scholarship
damsel, was painting in Holland when the great
Burgling Expedition started, and she said in her haste
that there was danger in the air, and bolted back to
London. She considers now that the peril is past,
and has returned to the distracted Continent of
Europe and her interrupted studies.
No one is wearing Paris hats now, for the high
gods who used to issue their mandates on brims,
bandeaux and such like mysteries have all gone into
the butchering trade. London is the world’s millinery
arbiter for the present. Most of the new shapes have
a military trend. There is a weird black moire forage
cap trimmed with jet knobs, a black velvet hussar’s
cap, a helmet with a double row of clipped wings
across the centre, and a shrieking military cap with
velvet brim and tartan crown. The Tipperary, so-
called because it is really a Scotch bonnet, is also
made of the übiquitous black velvet, with an edging
of braid and colored ribbon.
Jolly Minnie Everett, the J.C.W. ballet
mistress, is back from S’Africa. While there
she produced the “Puss in Boots” panto,
and a couple of musical shows, and was
starred as the first petticoated “producer”
the Piebald Continent had known.
The lady who was Ivy Bickford before
she married Lionel Muston, is here with a
four-year-old son.
Leigh Falkiner and Beatrice Young risked
it last week. Subsequently there was a
the cymbals at the Oriental llotel,
the chief instrumentalists being Falkiners,
Parses and Stuart Murrays, assisted by
\\ estern District Armytages and Dalrymples.
Two of the Frank Clarke daughters wore
expensively simple white muslin and helped
carry the bride’s nuptial impedimenta. Her
dress could be correctly described by a blind
guest used to fashionable weddings. She
did not wear sand-shoes and a cloth cap
affixed to her back hair by a rusty nail.
Nor yet a blue flannel wrapper and blucher
boots. The usual old fancy costume of satin,
tulle, court train, wreath and veil was good
enough for her. And very nice she looked
in the time-hallowed garments.
Leigh is the youngest son of old F. S.
Falkiner, of P.oonoke, now departed, and he
is following in the tracks of his sire as
regards racing. He bought Radnor from S.
Maekay the other day.
Melba left for Adelaide last week. You
already know her dark purpose. Her maid
followed with the bronchitis cures, hay fever
prophylactics, anti-pyrine and about GO
trunks. The Throat has to be guarded like
the banqueting cavern or trench of a war-
lord.
The Overseas Club is giving a concert
this week, with the usual Imperial object in
view, and the Fergusons and Stanleys and
Hennessys and the rest of the nobility have
sworn on their umbrella-hilts to be there.
Miss Butler-George is organising the show,
and those who will make music for their
country are tenor Hector Goldspink, George
Chant, Ruby Dixon, Shirley Cooke, Russell
Hawse and flautist John Amadio.
Really, ours is the unsurpassable sex.
At Melbourne City Court the other day one
of .us, after invoking police intervention
during a walloping by a gentleman boarder,
declined to give evidence against the wal-
loper. “I deserved all I got,” she explained.
“I can be very aggravating.” As she had
got two black eyes, a cut lip and a face
that looked as if it had been trodden on by
a prosperous importer, you can judge to
what heights she had elevated her special
accomplishment of being aggravating.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
Wednesday’s express brought Atelba, and she
brought a fixed intention of adding £lOOO to the
Bed Cross Fund. Afr. Ennis, wjio is a musical doctor
or an harmonious surgeon, met her at the station
and led her to Government House. The rest of the
co. arrived on Friday; and there was a small vice-
regal dinner party that evening.
Bain arrived last week, too. Nothing to blither
about as regards quantity, but still rain. Orchard-
ists and the fruit-eating public are rejoicing audi-
bly, and the air has been spring-cleaned of some of
its dust.
On AVednesdav the members of the Second Con-
tingent met at Afontefiore Hill and were lunched by
maidens representing the “Cheer Up” Society, as a
preliminary to the Presentation of the Colors, by the
Governor, and a review. They marched back to camp,
along Pennington Terrace, King William-street and
South Terrace, through packed streets.
Norman Malcolm, of the Register, who was for
three years president of the A.J.A. in South Aus., and
has a commission in the Force, was farewelled by
local scribes at the Exchange Hotel on Friday even-
ing of last week, and by the Register people a few
days later. He served in the Boer war.
Mrs. William Milne left £23,000. Most of it goes
to relatives and friends, with special bequests to the
Art Gallery, the District Trained Nursing Society
and tlie Cottage Homes. -
A recent vagrant not only earned “three months
hard” but one of the finest newspaper advts. in the
glittering story of local criminality. The reason
was his name, William Kaiser. Which reminds me
that there is one German in our midst who doesn’t
regard his origin as a handicap. He advertised on
Wednesday that he had “abandoned” his adopted
name of Lewis Stainer, and had resumed his original
name of Louis Steinwehr.
The Mount Lofty flower show occurred on Satur-
day, and to look at the rhododendrons, roses, sweet
pea and delphiniums you would think that the
Drought was a mere unstable rumor. The Galways
were there, with Miss Macaulay and Mr. Mulholland,
and they were taken by the Stirlings to St. Vigean's
for tea after they had done the show.
The Lavington Bonythons are back. They were in
the enemy's territory when the war began, and, of
course, lost their luggage. If promptness and energy
in the way of luggage-stealing could but win wars,
Paris would now be in the hands of the Kaiser and
the British Empire a mere name.
Died on Saturday Mrs. Alexander Fergusson. For
over 60 years she had lived in the same house —built on
the land her husband took up in the ’3o's—and she
remembers Rose Park, Leabrook and Knoxville when
they were dairy-farms.
The Orpen painting, “Sowing the Seed,” in Adel-
aide Art Gallery, has got tired of being pushed into
the background by the war, and has butted into the
limelight again. Some frivolous person took advan-
tage of a quiet moment to make pencil amendments
to the mis-shapen figure of the nude lady, and now
the picture has been put under glass. Some members
of the Art Gallery Board still think it is not too
late to get rid of the caricature, and a definite motion
to that effect is threatened for next month.
The Hollingdale-Pauline Higgins wed-
ding occurred at St. Joseph’s on Saturday ;
and the guests assembled at Mon Repos, when
the worst was over. About a hundred of
them were fed in a marquee at one of those
miscalled breakfasts which begin at about
4 p.m. and consist of all the things with
which no respectable people ever do break
their fasts. However, this is no time for
carping. The bride looked as a bride should.
She tucked her pink tulle train over her arm
and ran from one table to another saying-
good-bye. There were heaps of lovely
Tooraketty girls there, and they seemed as
grieved as though their friend was going to
Geelong or Westernport, instead of to the
comparatively accessible city of Sydney.
Two young sisters did the bridesmaiding
like veterans, ami Dr. Grantly Shelton, in
the role of best man. spoke his lines well,
and, generally, evinced a good deal of latent
talent. Mr. Higgins wore trousers and an
exquisitely-cut coat, of the tail order, and
his wife looked divine in a suit of oyster-
grey cloth, surmounted by a duck of a shady
hat. Mrs. Ilennessy was there—a perfect
mass of smiles and blue feathers. Also Dr.
Mclnerney and his wife, the Sheltons and
that Fincham daughter who is leaving shortly
for the West and the altar. The bride got
herself into a white tailored costume and a
shady hat later on, and motored off with her
spouse to the hills.
A procession of motor transport waggons
pervaded the spacious St. Ivilda-road on
Saturday afternoon. The trams ran as
usual; the side streets were crammed with
private motors waiting while their occupants
viewed the parade; and still there was ample
room for the war vehicles. Motors full of
sunburnt officers and motor-cycles bearing
despatch men preceded the waggons. Work-
shops on wheels, like great houses, ran as
smoothly and easily as the finest Rolls-Royce
cars. These workshops are fitted out with
all the necessary machinery, and held bands
of mechanics who toiled as they went. Wag-
gons for ambulance, waggons for ammuni-
tion and waggons for tucker followed in a
long, green-grey line. This lot makes up a
section of the GO-mile chain for use
between the base and the firing line.
A crowd of Governors, acc(ompanied
by military overlords of all ranks
and sizes, stood on a bunting-covered salut-
ing base and behaved accordingly.
Word comes that Captain Gilliat, who was
one of the Dudley A.D.C.’s, has rejoined his
regiment. He carelessly left the service at
the end of his term with the Dudleys, and
went on a trip to Japan with the Cyril
Wards. He might never have got back to
the army at all but for the war, as the Rifle
Brigade, which was his particular “pidgin,”
is chronically overstocked. Another Dudley
A.D.C. who was still fighting and unhurt
when the last mail left is Leslie Rome, of
the 11th Lancers —one of the Queensland
Rome family.
Audrey Chirnside, who got her motor-
driver’s certificate when she was in Mel-
bourne last, is employing her mechanical
gifts and money in driving wounded soldiers
from the neighborhood of the firing line to
the nearest hospitals. She also conveys the
injured to and from tlie railway stations.
Her sphere of aetidn is r ie French left wing
where the British troops are operating.
Captain Hughes-Onslow has been appointed
to the Revenge on commissioning. You will
recollect his extraordinary gifts as a fighter
when he was in Melbourne. No dialectical
odds daunted him. He would take on an
entire Parliament if necessary, and argue
with it to the last ditch. His new ship is
the very latest and most formidable battle-,
engine on record—a super-Dreadnought of
incredible size and speed.
Young Kerr, last year’s Rhodes Scholar,
lias gone to France with the R.A.M.C. He
was on vacation in South America when the
war began and at-once tore back to Oxford
as though a Spanish bailiff with a ca. m.
order were after him. As you know he is a
full-fledged doctor already.
It is an embarrassing time for the men
who have very little to do, and who
are of fighting age, but who haven’t
gone to tL. war, and don’t mean to, unless
they are aosolutely driven there. One of
them was discussing the eternal question
with a sailor’s wife the other night,-and to
her infuriated queries as to why he didn’t
emulate her husband, and proceed instantly
to the Great Blow-TTp, he could think of
nothing bettter to say than that such a
step would break his parents’ hearts. He
was immediately flattened out with the
obvious retort that the absent husband-hero
had not considered her (the lady’s) heart
when he went to do his duty. Of course
the distracted lad had overlooked the cor-
rect riposte altogether. In the first place
the lady’s husband had to go. He no doubt
wished to : but, anyhow, he would have been
shot or imprisoned if he had demurred.
And, secondly, it is only a fair thing that
our defenders, who have been covering
themselves with feathers and gold braid
and other glorious trappings during the
summer days of peace, should pay for their
past vanities when war’s chill winter sets in.
I don’t for a moment say, mark you, my dear,
that the above excuses our youthful braves
from shirking their duty to the Empire.
But it is a legitimate argumentative weapon
to employ against a certain type of contro-
versialist.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


mm
*&*» «vW
■■■
H&r. ,v
■ ■'. ■'■' ■:
■ •:•:
V-.
HSU
'
- -vIV *,*
M
, XS£
wm
a®
vv>X*l
■ . :
1„ . , . ..*’*.* I.)
&&<£f
ICwa*!
;>>> ' ,
•v»\v.i
*>t*xd
K*% 5,1:
•I.'-
WHEN you meet a fellow
patriot bent on toasting the
success of the Allies, see
that the call is for Thornes.
It engenders the feeling of hearty
good fellowship and makes for keen
enjoyment.
d home s is real Old Highland
Malt \\ hi sky,- and is the finest
spirit produced at Glenlivet, that
traditional home of Scotch Whisky.
For eighty years its mellowness,
quality and distinctive flavor have
never varied.
Connoisseurs invariably call for
Thorne’s.
Thorne’s
Old
Highland
Malt
“ Incomparable. ”
mi
$ .S i
■
- ■
msm
mm
§1 § - ■
' ; , 1 ‘ \
_ - V
"I • f
SBSK
m
■
tssp
* ■ my ■
w
J Steitek,
S* i


Successful
Tooth Cleaning
should he more than a mere
phrase, —it becomes actual
fact for the people who use
Sold by local
Druggist* & Stores.
Made by
F.C.Calvert & Co
Manchester, h ng.
n
[CARBOLIC]
Toolliltader
What is the Best Beauty Soap
for the Complexion?
' There is at present a great controversy
croing on in the English newspapers about
fhe best soap to use for the complexion.
Some advocate the use of one and some
another kind,, but they are all satisfied on
t fah nnints and those are that for a
soap" to be beneficial to the skin, must be
soap o coloring matter, and without a
I’Tof sion- coarse, irritating perfume being
nddld and also that the .soap must be made
from "ood ingredients without a piepondei
nnc“ of soda, which makes the skin hard.
Vn English soapmaker has been able
combine all the above good qualities in a
commue cflinp time to incorporate
“ax which is so much
P-r 7 Qnan there is a trace of the wax left
Wa fx S ° k ?n which, by its continuous sooth-
-011 tl ? ia ( orr« ve action on the skin and
an £ c Teens it in a healthy and pure
state, and prevents the formation of pimples
and blemishes on it.
THE HOWARD: Exact.
In 1829 Edward Howard was apprenticed to
Aaron Willard, Jun., the descendant of a long
line of English Watchmakers, who settled in the
Massachusetts Colony about the middle of the
eighteenth century. . „ „ ITn
In 1840 he started in business for himself. Lp
to that time watches had always been made by
handwork exclusively. Howard’s plan was to
make automatic tools that should perfect the
parts of a watch, leaving to the hand the task ot
assembling and finishing the parts.
In 1842 the first Howard Watch was produced
—a thoroughly practical watch. The Howard of
to-day is the finest practical timepiece in the
world for a man to carry in his pocket.
It has a patented hard-tempered steel balance,
which will not knock out of true with the jolt
and jar of the severest service.
Peary carried a Howard on his trip to tne
1 °Oi ville Wright relied on a Howard in his Aero-
Pl 'Admiraf’chas. D. Sigsbee carried a Howard for
r |pnd your address for the Illustrated Watch
catalogue.
PROUDS LTD.,
Jewellers and
Watchmakers,
187 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Councillor Curnow, State Liberal candi-
date for Bendigo, is a discouraging advocate
of decentralisation. He tells the goldfields
workers that the first essential to the success
of manufacturing industries in country
towns is a less-than-Melbourne rate of wages.
Who wants to he a Bendigo factory hand at
a reduced wage? Capital is yearning toi
decentralisation on the proposed terms, but
Labor isn’t —especially if Curnow can t
guarantee for the country town a less-than-
Melbourne cost of living.
MORE SCOPE FOR AUSTRALIAN
INDUSTRY.
Turkev, being embroiled in the war, a numbered
staple lines usually imported thence via London will
fast become scarce in Sydney, such as raisins, dried
figs, mohair, dates, coffee, fancy confectionery and
dyes. —Pleasing news.
THE LOCAL SMOKE: “Good-bye, Stinker!"
The lack of nominations for the Vic.
State elections should show the insectanaus
that they can’t stir up things as they fang
thev can. In no less than ,1G of the bo
electorates there was no contest, nine Labor-
ites being returned and seven Ministerial-
ist! But if some of the seafs are uncon-
tested there is a great rush for'those where
the retirement of the old''member gives
nobody a prior right or a vested mteie&t,
and if the scramble in those cases is the off-
spring of the Bible-reading in schools
agitation, it isn’t particularly creditable to
its parent.
“Beer to-day and pawn to-morrow.”
Holman’s motto.
An American film firm is organising an
“expedition” to tour “the wild, waste regions
of Australia and Maoriland” in search ot pic-
tures. It is a characteristic effect or the
Commonwealth’s ineffective tariff that this
country doesn’t even feel in a position to
take its own photograph.
Lloyd George, British Chancellor of the
Exchequer, estimates that Britain’s share ot
the war expenditure for the first year will
be £450,000,000 at least, and that even after
doubling the income-tax and piling on sundry
other increases, the deficit for the year will
he £339,571,000. The country, he says, has
2.000.000 men under arms, and expects
shortly to have another million. Bull is lead-
ing the strenuous life, and in these times it
is rough that he should be wakened out ot
his scarce sleep in the night by a small boy
at the back-door who wants him to cash
Australia’s post-dated cheque for a trifle.
The Vic. Liberal party, which is going to
the poll whilst The Bulletin is being
published, will gain more votes than it loses
as the result of this qualified testimonial
from the Akgus :
The Ministerial programme, speaking broadly, em-
bodies a thoroughly sound, sane and progressive
policy, which may be heartily endorsed by Libera
candidates and electors. One proposal is extreme 1
objectionable. Ministers wish to so lower the tran-
chise of the Legislative Council to the ratepayers roU,
and to so reduce the property qualification of members,
that they might almost as well advocate the abolition
of the Chamber.
If Peacock had not, at the last minute, added
a scheme of Council Reform to his pro-
gramme, the approbation of the Aik.uk
would have been unqualified, and no Minis-
try could survive that nowadays.
On the Mosman (Sydney) ferryboat on
the Wednesday of last week was a fat im-
porter who held forth to a friend at great
length and in a loud voice about the iniquity
of the Australian Governments note issue.
It was apparently his theory that the securi-
ties issued by a prominent member ot the
British Empire were, as a matter ot course,
quite hopeless and insolvent. 1 ossibly he
would have preferred German com. He said
he would get level by paying Ins income tax
in paper money. He seemed to think that
he would thereby deal a fatal blow at Aiis-
tralia, and he declared in his anger that he
would remunerate “the dogs in tlieir owi
currency. The fact that the State Govern-
ment collects the income tax while the
Federal authority issues the currency was
presumably unknown to him. He was an
importer.
If past performances are anything to go
bv the N. S. Wales Treasury won t get tat
on any thousand pound fines it will collect
from the rebellious Newcastle miners. Since
June, 1912, and exclusive of these latest
cases, there have been 1377 convictions foi
taking part in strikes, and fines amounting to
£8846 have been imposed. Flatulent
Authority remitted enough to reduce the
total to £7434; and only £2276 of that has
been paid. On the other hand, bosses
were convicted 1644 times for not keeping
time books and 1142 for not posting up
awards. Total fines, £2089; collected,
£2054 The “even-handed Justice which
the N.S.W. Labor party used to talk a lot
about before it got to the loaves and fishes
seems to have met with a bad accident
somewhere.
The Scaddan Ministry has come back to
office in Westralia with a majority ot two,
which will he a majority of one when the
Speaker is provided. There have been cer-
tain rearrangements, and the team is now as
follows: —■
Premier and Chief Optimist: Scaddan. , „ .
Minister for Holes in the Ground and Wild Cats.
the Boundless Natural Resources, on
which so much Money has been Borrowed:
A ttoniev-General and Minister for Teaching the
Att °RiLTGeneration that Hard Work doesn't
matter, and that the great thing is to Float a
Colonial 11 Secretary and Explainer of Finances to the
Upper House, which is Generally Asleep and
doesn't hear the Explanation: Drew.
Minister for Works, constructed with Borrowed Money.
Angwin.
Honorary Borrower: Dodds.
Honorary Shortage: Underwood.
The wise words of Spencer, the moving-
picture man, cordially recommended to I ed-
eral politicians who are hovering on the
brink of a duty on foreign films
Picture production [in Australia] has been killed
To day it is as dead as the proverbial doornail. Can
you believe that this is the only country in the
world where pictures are not being made. Sue
s indeed, the case. Australia lias become the
dumping-ground for all the producers in the world,
when it could most profitably be taking its place
side bv side with other picture-producing countries,
and providing work in Australia for thousands of its
own people. , , .
For the hovering politicians the problem is
-quite simple. “Whom shall we serve—the
thousands for whom we might provide profit
able employment in Australia, or the ling,
trust or combine of picture-showmen who,
for the time being, can make a few pounds
extra by importing their wares and keeping
this country unpopulated t
Can’t anything at all be done to suppress
Joe Cook, the brilliant Defence expert, who
thought that the “river” class of destroyers
were designed merely to pervade creeks like
the Yarra and Parramatta? The other day
he wanted to know why Australia couldn
lush more men away to without
waiting to train and equip them. »till,
when you come to think ot it, it is -
good Freetrade doctrine. What right lias
Australia to turn out the finished article
when it might ship the raw material.
THE SHOUT OF THE WAR GOD.
Thanks to the valor of my brave heroes, France has
been severely punished, and Belgium, which inter-
fered with our attack, has been added to our glorious
provinces. The German punitive expedition into
Russia has also been a brilliant success. Germany
must now turn to the new task of protecting om
hearths, which moribund France and barbarous
Russia are preparing to attack.
DER KAISER : " We haf viped dean out der
enemy. Now, back to der Faderland or
dey will vipc us dean out, too, I dinks.
This British habit of being kind to the
enemy and permitting the voice of the cocoa
sentimentalist to be heard in time of war, is
killing too many valuable countrymen, ihe
laxity to Germans in Colombo helped the
Emd'en raids. A German officer arrested on
his way from Turkey to dynamite the Sue/,
Canal was sentenced to life imprisonment
which means till after the war. Death was
the right penalty—to encourage tlie_ others.
England is still full of German spies, and
except in one stupendous case imprisonment
is the worst that happens to them. An
Edinburgh merchant is discovered attempt-
ing to provide the enemy with coal cargoes
which may have supplied a hostile ship
with power to sink a British man-o -war.
This worse than traitor gets a mere five
years. Here in Australia we are
''actually paying the boarding-out of some ol
them, and maintaining them in idleness
despite that an idle man is a mischievous
man The Germans lay Belgium waste and
force Belgian women to bury the German
dead. Our sapheads ask whether they 11
have rice custard or pineapple fritters
Also Mrs. Leo Hunter makes the pampered
Germans prize guests of her At Home, and
they beam with the insolence of conquest
on the Australian girl, and want to paw her,
and call her endearing names, while they
find out from her where the expedition to
which her military brother, belongs has gone.
Premier Holman, of N.S.W., lias taken
a hand in the Victorian State elec-
tions. There is a legend somewhere
probably in Bagdad or Bessarabia—ahout
how the Devil delivered a rousing seimon on
social purity, and the show was oply sporlea
through the end of his tail dropping in 0 .
collection-plate. No perceptible relattonship
exists between this episode and Holman
campaign.
“Henry Horsecollar”: One ot the cond
tions of peace should be the establishm
an International Bureau of
Statistics which will Proceed,
within three months, to fane a
census of Europe. ihen
world will possess a sort or
record showing the size of tne
catastrophe. During the last
GO years only two wars are
known to me where the
slaughter overtook the ordinary
increase of population and actu-
ally emptied the country. Dne
was the magnificent scrap that
Paraguay held in the oil s ot
last century with two republics
each 10 times its tonnage, ana
the other was the Mahdis up-
heaval in the Soudan. It this
war seriously diminishes the
white race the fact ought to
be put on record. By
or 1921, when the regular cen-
sus falls due, the cradle will
have filled again (the hanging
of the Kaiser being fixed by a
sort of common consent for the
year 1916), and unless some-
thing is done early a valuable bit of infor-
mation will be lost.
Geelong’s big timber mills, established a
few years ago and fitted with expensive
machinery, have been closed, and about '
toilers have been robbed of their jobs by an
ineffective tariff. Wages and other costs
have gone up, but the owners obtained no
compensating concessions in the tariff, which
was hopelessly inadequate from the start.
The dressed imported article can be put on
the Australian market cheaper than it can
be turned out by the Geelong nulls; so the
only question for Tudor to answer, assum-
ing' he wants the work done here, is : ‘.Much-
increased Protection or much-reduced wages
—which ?”
The medieval fetich of “the Crown’s” right
to exact its full dues from a debtor s estate,
however the rest of the creditors may . * *
is unceremoniously scrapped by a p rovisior
in the Federal Bankruptcy Bill. At piesent,
if John Jones files owing £lOOO and owning
£lO, the Crown can, if it has traded with
him and become his creditor, step in and help
itself first, though that may leave , “ ot hi *
stiver for other traders who are also his
creditors. The iniquity is more iniquitous
than ever now that the State does so much
trading, and Fisher does a just thing m
killing it.
HOW WE STRIKE THE BALANCE.
Paper money would drive sold out of the country.
He had realised that such would be the case, and
had told the House that as the balance of trade was
against them, the gold would have to go out of
Australia to settle oversea accounts. Premier Peake.
If Warrnambool, which has been faithful
to John Murray for 29 years, returns him
this time, he will be the father of the 1 ic-
torian Assembly. Until the dissolution the
place at the head of the table was held by I’-
11. Cameron, who had sat for Evelyn con-
tinuously for 40 years. Cameron is now 84,
and has decided that the time is ripe, live
Ministerialists and a Labor man have nomi-
nated for his old seat. One of the Liberals is
barrister G. A. Maxwell, who has made moie
iuries weep over the alleged wrongs of wrong-
doers than any other man at the Victorian
Bar. Any criminal case m which Maxwell is
briefed draws like a bellowdrama.
THE LIGHTNING LOAS THAT MA BULLY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The £1,500,000 Treasury bills which this State
is negotiating in London will cover Treasury bills
falling due on the 27st inst. These bills now floated
will have to be renewed next May.
win nave , Sydney Telegrai>h.
This is the. Loan that Ma built.
This is her Agent-General gay, who got particulars
one fine day of the Loan that Ma constructed.
This is the loud and fervent d—n which rose to the
lips of that harassed man, Ma’s Agent-General,
known as Tim ; for, somehow or other, it worried
him to think of the Loan that Ma elevated.
This is the Banker, keen as could be, who Tim
immediately went to see in a taxi-cab and a lot
of haste; for the wire read: “There’s no time
to waste; don’t fight for terms; give an IOU;
for Gorsake get the dashed thing _ through
thrbe or four millions are falling due for recent
Loans that Ma composed.”
This is the thing that the Banker spoke: Mv
goodness, Tim, but your crowd is broke. It’s
barely a week since you rushed through, leaving
the usual lOU. Now you’re here again!
This is very sad, and money’s tight and the
market bad I’ll do whatever is in my power;
you can have a bob for about an hour at let
me see —gay five per cent.; but don t come back
when the bob is spent and ask for another.
We’re awfully rushed; this War will last till
the Ilogman’s crushed, and it’s such a whale
of a War for cash that things may go to
Eternal Smash before we finish our mighty
j-ob—Yes; five per cent., and here’s the bob!”
And THAT is the Loan that Ma agglomerated!
N.S.W.
MONTY PEET.
“THE DAY.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Beilin reports that the Germany have completed
concrete trenches on the field of Vs aterloo. These
they have calculated to defend for an indefinite tmip
in comparative comfort during the cghle
The German fleet still remains in the Kie^Canal.
The Day, the looked-for-Day, has come
And Britain’s doom draws near:
Loud sounds our peerless nine-foot drum ;
Our splendid legions cheer,
What time they prove their fighting worth
By going hurriedly to earth.
Let foolish Britons sail the seas
In quest of ships and mines ;
We Germans scorn such deeds as these.
We war on other lines,
Regarding battles as banal
While there remains the Kiel Canal.
Beneath the grass of Waterloo
Ten army corps repose;
They are not dead: they do but do
What every rabbit knows
Is pleasanter, In every way,
At certain stages of The Day.
A Fleet which dare not leave a ditch,
An army hid in holes,
And hairy Jan Ivanovitch
At hand in countless shoals.
• What wonder that Berlin is gay
And that it wildly cheers The Day ! .
N.S.W.
WILHELM von BLUTWURST.


A Kodak as a Ckristmas
Gift is Sure to Please.
Wherever there is a Kodak there is an enthusiastic picture maker. A Kodak provides pleasure for the leisure
hour and makes a holiday a ramble and almost any sport or hobby infinitely more enjoyable. Give a Kodak to
the one you wish to please the most. J
Give a man a Kodak and he will be able to make a capital picture record of all his sports and of every hour that
lie spends m the open air.
Give a woman a Kodak aud she will be able to make delightful pictures of all her home life, her familv and her
friends —pictures that will be a constant source of pleasure.
Give the children Kodaks and they will be able to make jolly snaps of all their happv moments
to use a Kodak in half an hour
A child can learn
Nothing could be easier than making pictures with a Kodak.
Christmas present.
Nothing could be better than a Kodak for a
Take a Kodak with you on your holiday.
A Holiday without a Kodak is a Holiday Wasted.
Surely it is worth while to remember the happiest times
of your life—your holidays? A holiday spent with a
Kodak will never fade from your memory—it is yours in
picture form to recall whenever you wish. Don’t waste
your liojida.vs this year, take a Kodak. You can learn to
use a Kodak in half an hour.
There are Kodaks from 30/- to £l5/2/-
No. 1 &, No. la. Kodak Junior.
Easy to operate, and so thin and compact that one is
pocketed without inconvenience. Equipped with new
Kodak ball-bearing shutter, with cable release, for time
and bulb exposures.
No. I.—Takes pictures 2] x 3j inches, miniscus achro-
matic lens, £l/12/6; with Rapid Rectilinear
lens, £2.
No. 1 A.—Size of pictures, 2£ x 4} inches, meniscus achro-
matic lens, £l/17/6; with Rapid Rectilinear
lens, £2/7/6.
Two Very Popular Kodaks.
Vest Pocket Kodak takes pictures 24 x If inches, and
fits the vest pocket or a lady’s handbag. Price 30/-
3A Folding Pocket Kodak takes pictures postcard size
(54 x 3] inches). Price 90/-
Brownies for the Children.
No. O. BROWNIE.
This is the very latest little cousin of the Kodak. Just
right as a present for a boy or girl—"-good enough for
an adult! Takes pictures If x2| inches. Price 6/-
Get the latest Kodak Catalogue.
Subscribe to the Australasian Photo-Review. 4/6
per annum, post free.
KODAK <Austraiasia) LTD
f
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “The Block,” 284 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 37 Bundle Street.
BRISBANE: 250-252 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA: Rutliven Street.
TOWNS VILLE : Flinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON: Denham Street.
broken HILL: 346 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dixon Street.
"CKLAND. N.Z.: 3 Lome Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: 76 Stuart Street.
r
1
A
m
I
/*?
<?£>
MODEL " N ’’—HORIZONTAL STATIONaRV
OIL ENGINES: 1 to 100 H P.
INVINCIBLE
à
MODEL “ M V :RTiCAL S TATIONARY
OIL ENQINES : 2 to 10 H.P.
MARINE-
STATIONARY
and PORTABLE
OIL ENGINES
The Best in the World.
Simplest—Strongest-Most Durable-Most Economical
Invincible” Engines are on show at our Depots in the following towns of New South
r3.f,® S iT ? an ? U in [ Jra ,V c '?olamon, Cootamundra, Deli mgr a, Gilgandra, Glen Innis, Grenfell,
nverell, Lockhart, Manilla, Molong, Mudgee, Murwillnmbah, Narrabri, Narromine, Parkes, Peak
Hill, Scone, 1 amworth, Taree, Temora, Trundle, The Rock, Wellington, West Wyalong.
At these Branches we are keeping full sets of all! Duplicate Parts, and expert services are
always available.
See an “Invincible” working. It will convince you. It is the simplest in design,
the easiest to operate, the sweetest-running, and, because of these qualities, it costs you the least
in repairs. It is built with absolute precision, so that repair parts (of which large supplies
are kept constantly in stock} fit with the utmost accuracy.
“Invincible” Engines are built to .run on any Fuel.
Every “Invincible” Oil Engine is Guaranteed for FIVE Years.
INVINCIBLE MOTOR CONSTRUCTION CO. LTD.
Works: WOOLWICH, N.S.W. Sydney S*ltowrooms : 35 PITT STREET.
Brisbane Showrooms : 529 QUEEN STREET.
Sole Distributing: Agrents for “INVINCIBLE” STATIONARY
and PORTABLE ENGINES FOR NEW SOUTH WALES are
JAMES BELL & CO., 109 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
"Tins, rknmeansWar'
*3l
PS
I
Z*
1
•<str
The Standard Publishing Co. Pty., Ltd.,
100 Flinders St., Melbourne; and at Sydney.
But thß Kais: V'o Will had to he oh’yed> pass-
ports handed out, and peaceful Europe
immediately ove wun with armed men,
“The Steidard’ History of jthp W#- r>/ is
the great autlioi itative .account, Not only
are the land battles' and ttUB JSFaiyajl engagements
adequately explaii ed by Military and' Naval
Experts, and cleai ly illustrated by diagrams
and unique photog. raphs, but the failure of
the Diplomatists is fully and reliably treated
in this magnificent History. It is all so
carefully written tl.«fc 'll lsstoifens will use
it for reference.
l-’IIEE BOOKLET,
It is impossible to tell you .all about this
great History here, ;A> we haye issued .aft-
eight-page" illustrated prospectus, which we
will send you frisk, a\d with absolutely
no obligation to eut, and which -will tell
you how you can subsc h’be and obtain the
first volume (9:f x; 61 x inches), on ( or
•about December 10* by a. first payment of
5/-, a small balance* being- payable‘later p®.
The Standard Publishing Company Pty., Ltd.
Please, send me, free, ;full particulars of “The
History of the Grea t European War.”
Name
(Send this form or a postcard, mention-
ing Tiie Bum .ktin, 26114.) )
Address * ..


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents : RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARD.E.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LiniTED, Redfern, Sydney.
To heroise the commander of the Emden
because lie was not as bad as he might have
been could hardly be justified even by that
chivalrous spirit King George IV.—his top-
notcli Scotch.*
The Hendee Co.’s Indian Motor Cycle has had to
battle against a lot of prejudice, but its achievements
have not been affected by adverse criticism. And it
has won a place right on top in Australian expert
opinion. Australian riders are everywhere taking
kindly to the Indian, not only because it is safe and
speedy, but because its low price and long lasting
powers make it a very economic proposition. ■
AGED COUPLE.
ROTII ENJOY SPLENDID HEALTH.
WHICH THEY ATTRIBUTE TO DR.
MORSE'S INDIAN ROOT PILLS.
Mrs. Eliza Cahill, of Ballville Street,
Prospect, Adelaide, S.A., whose photo is
reproduced, describes in the following state-
Mrs. Eliza Cahill.
From a, Photo.
ment how her
husband was re-
lieved of
acute constipa-
tion, and they
both now enjoy
perfect health,
due to taking
Dr. Morse’s In-
dian Root Tills
regularly.
“My husband,”
writes Mrs.
Eliza Cahill,
“was ill for two
years suffering
severely from
acute constipa-
tion. About 12
months ago I
persuaded him to try Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, and I am glad to say they cured
him after taking a course. He now enjoys
good health and takes a pill when occasion
warrants their use. I also take Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills myself, and they prove
beneficial to me. I always keep them in the
house and use them regularly. I would not
be without them, they keep me in perfect
health. I am 71 years old and have been a
resident of this State 54 years, so I should
be well known. You may publish this testi-
monial, and I shall be pleased to confirm
same to anyone calling on me.”*
SPORTING
NOTIONS
J. J. Calvert, retiring Clerk of Ma’s Par-
liaments, who has been in the House ever since there
was a House, is a fine old sport. In his younger
days he was a recognised authority in most branches
of athletics. He was hon. sec. to the old invincible
Albert Cricket Club, which had its ground at Red-
fern; he held a seat on the N.S.W. Cricket Associa-
tion, and was frequently selector for intercolonial
teams. For 4 0 years be was president of the N.S.W .
Rugby Union. In the A.J.C. he took a big interest,
especially when Buchan Thomson was secretary and
Edward ' Deas-Thomson president. At one time he
was a voluminous contributor to the sporting press,
writing of the turf as “Newmarket and of ciicket
as “Old Iz.” He is 85 now, but is still keen.
Jimmy Coffey, reputed to be a full-
blooded Mohawk Indian, met Fred Kay at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night. Coffey showed the in-
domitable old wigwam spirit throughout the proceed-
ings. His condition was good and bis vigor undeni-
able. But he had left Ins grappling-irons behind, and
without them he found it impossible to get the elusive
Kay where he Wanted him. Kay’s elusiveness grows
more and more wearisome. In Coffey lie was up
against one who was his inferior in height, reach and
probably strength. Yet he ran away from the com-
paratively innocuous little Yank as though the latter
carried the punch of a Langford. Parts of the con-
test resembled a ghost being pursued by a shadow.
Still Kay fought more, on the whole, than he usually
does, and as often as lie did so lie demonstrated that
that way lies destruction for him if it is employed,
against a top-ranker of the rugged order. His best
punch, as usual, was a left delivered at long range,
and he also got home with some violent rights—the
equivalent of a normal boxer’s lefts. The decision,
which went to Kay on points, was the only possible
one, and it was heartily hooted by about 25 per cent,
of the experts present. . x
A boxer declared on ‘oath last week that,
after winning a £5O tournament, all that remained
to him, when he had paid training expenses, etc.,
was £l7. It is a painful reflection on the intelli-
gence of the youths who enter for these contests.
Seventeen sovereigns is to be earned in a month or
less at many humble callings—wharf-lumping, for
example. The money acquired under such circum-
stances does not involve the likelihood of thick earn,
a broken nose, shattered teeth and other injuries,
many of them necessitating the. expense of a doctor.
A man might wharf-lump or cargo-shift for years and
not have to be so much as. once carried from the
scene of his labors in an unconscious state, amid the
exulting shouts of the populace. Moreover, the per-
son who goes in for a month’s manual labor is
generally certain that he will get the money, while m
most cases the tournament-fighter engages in an even
wilder gamble than betting on a Cup. Wby do mis-
guided young men enter for boxing tourneys in their
thousands ?
“D.”: Apropos the report from the TJ.S.
(B. 5/11/’l4) that Sam Langford; hog-fat and flag-
rantly untrained, knocked out Colin Bell after toying
with him for four rounds. This is the same Samuel
who drew with Bell, in Queensland, the other (lay,
after an apparentlv-strenuous 20-round contest. - The
moral of it is that the fighting game, so far. as the
big blacks are concerned, is not merely decadeftt, but
decayed and ripe for burial. The unfortunate savages
can’t afford to be honest. They fight with the;.shadow
of the Official Receiver hanging over thenV Their
diamonds —the accumulations of years are in peril,
and they know it. The result is that wherever they
are lucky enough to get a contest, they wage it with
an eye to the next, and the evasion of insolvency.
Johnson, Langford and McVea arc all approaching
middle life. Any one of them could still put it across
the heftiest young white heavyweight procurable. Yet
they never knock anyone out nowadays unless they
simply have to, or unless they have met and over-
whelmed the victim so often thatt decency loibids
further forbearance.
* *
Gunboat Smith, who lost to Cat-pentier on
1 foul, but who might otherwise have won, accord-
ing to many good authorities, by the knock-out route,
fought Cyclone Johnnv Thompson last month in
Pittsburgh (U.S.). Johnny is the freak who arrived
in Australia, a few years back, as a lightweight.
He must have weighed about 12st. at the time.
Also, his vast bullet head and the ruined appearance
of his ears and nose made him look still more
formidable. After lie had put it across several of
Australia’s bona fide lightweights, a roar of pi ('test
arose and lie wqs turned on to the middle-weights. Now
in the evening of his ring life (he must be fullv 40).
he is taking on men in the running for the heavy-
weight championships of the world. It is an odd game.
Jack Jannese lost the bantam championship
of Australia to George Taylor on Saturday night at Mel-
bourne. The notable feature of the disturbance was the
chivalry of Taylor. After losing round after round
on points he managed to land Jannese a heavy right
on the jaw. The champion went down like a parcel
of dead meat, and stayed there till “nine,” when
he staggered up. An ordinary boxer would have been
on to him, with extermination in his eye, in halt a
second. Taylor deliberately stood off to let the
dazed png', pull himself together. However, the latter
couldn’t do it, and Taylor, with grief writ large upon
his classic brow, was impelled by the rules of the
game, the sentiments of the audience and other con-
siderations to smite again. This time Jannese went
down, and his towel went up simultaneously. Taylor
has a great punch for one of his weight.
“Bilrock” : Amongst the first to volunteer
for defence of their country were Georges Carpentier,
Ledoux and several other stoush-mercliants of the
French boxing fraternitv. But what of J. Johnson,
Esq.? Is he at the front dealing out biff on behalf ot
the country which has so long feted him and sheltered
him from his American liabilities? Ear from it
just as far from it as his loose cash would take him !
When the invasion of Paris threatened a lengthy slab
of darkness was seen to emerge from the Gay \ illage
and streak for the horizon. Loandon for him. Since
arriving there he has been appearing at second-rate
suburban music-halls, which is next door to total
Extinction. bong before the war is over his name
will be Pastes Mud. It has always been something
to that effect.
Shackleton lias again cliosen Shell spirit
for the use of his expedition in the Antarctic.
Financial barrenness lias compelled N.S.W.
Cricket Association to cut the Country v. Metropolis
fixture out of the season’s programme, and only a
few Metropolitan teams will be sent into the more
or less back districts. Last season the country
scheme was, financially, a howling failure. In these
strenuous da vs howling failures are interesting only
to the Holman Government. It howls enough for
three, and fails enough for 150.
NOBLE, CRICKETER.
As anticipated, the cricket show put on
last. Saturday by the N.S.W. Association tor the
benefit of the Patriotic Fund aroused little public
interest. A match between first and second XI s
lacks the bite of State or club rivalry. The feature
of Saturday’s play was the bright batting of Taylor,
the Newington College youth, who has had promising
things said about him. He made top score (33) for
the Next Best Eleven Out of the insufficient total, ot
140.
* * *
Observe how weather conditions affected
cricket play on the last two Saturdays in Melbourne.
On 21st inst. the wickets were moist, not to say
damp, and last Saturday they were fine and dry In
the match between North Melb. and Richmond the
latter was polished off for 88 runs on tricky ground,
while the former, "on the salubrious pitch, knocked up
106 for seven wickets, and, on resuming, 232. then
Richmond, on its share' of the batsman’s pitch, col-
lected 249 runs for .eight wickets. North won on the
first innings. Another example was provided in the
match between . the Students and Essendon. Starting
late on the first dav, the former lost three good men
for 19 but last "Saturday they reached 215 for six
wickets (Willis, 100 mol) and declared. Then Don
made 127 for no wickets, and the game was drawn.
Some pretty bowling averages in the
matches concluded at Melbourne on Saturday: <>nt,
of North, five wickets for 15: Plant, of ’Cote, three
for 15 and four for 33 ; Blackie, of P’ran. eight tor
96; Ryder, six for 30 • Moule, of St Hilda, five lor
28 ; and McLean, of Carlton, six for 22.
There was a sensational piece of cricket,
at Christchurch (M.L.) the other day in a first-grade
match. Riccarton had slowly smacked up 195 at the
first attempt. The match was a two-day affair, and
as St. Albans also spent much time in scratching 111
for nine wickets it looked as if only one wicket had
to fall to end the match in favor of Riccarton on the
first innings. But Lamb and Barrett, the hopeless
tail performed a modern miracle. In the first 20min.
they plastered 50. of. the 79 runs wanted on to the
scoring board. Then they fairly bolted and put on the
remaining 29 runs in seven minutes. By this time
the enemv was demoralised, and the two swipers went
on until Barrett was caught with the score at 215.
The last wicket had yielded exactly 100 runs in
3 3 min.
Thp Westralian Worker had a mate when
.ton ,oi »econ.l pl.«.
The totalizator paid a few good diva, at
Adelaide on Saturday. tor £1 '"vested the
machine returned £42 on Yellow Astei, £2i on
.....jp ,,,,1 -uu 5s. on Ethel Maude. In each e\enr
a div. was also paid on the second horse A point
usually missed in the tote row '"SW , ; e - vls h \ l f t
somebody draws the big div. on the mach' e,
whereas with Noses nobody need draw the big odds ne
occasionally mentions.
Vn ingenious starting machine for use at
trottiri"- meetings has been produced by an electncal
firm irf Christchurch (M.L.) ■ One of the disadvanages
of the starting clock now m general use on tiottmg
tracks is that the drivers ot the back-maikeis have
great difficulty in reading their numbeis on the nic
of the clock and in watching the hand that is fckin,
off the seconds. The new device wipes out this
trouble. The machine consists of a framework abo
8ft. square erected at the starting-post Down the
front of it run a number of endless chains placed
about a foot apart. The numbers representing each
division of starters are placed on these chains at a
distance from the bottom of the board corresponding
with their handicap; the limit divisions numbei
being placed lowest and the others higher up the
framework at intervals, according to the start con-
ceded Bv means of an electncal switch, attached to
a flexible* cord, the starter controls the mechanism.
When the machine is started the numbers begin to
descend. As each reaches the bottom it rings a bell
aid disappears, that being the signal for the horse it
represents to cross the starting mark. All the driver
of anv particular prad has to do is to watch his
number descending the board and to trot towards the
starting post so as to be there when lus number
disappears. # *
The Tote received a great advt. at Gisborne
(ML.) the other day when in the Maiden Scurry
Itupahu fled past the post with an £80 dividend
hanging to its tail. Rupahu was eleventh favorite on
the machine, and went out supported by only six
investors. One of them was a Chinaman who had
three tickets and drew £240 in return for lus £3.
There was another out-size in dividends on the same
course away back in 1896, when a horse named
Maritana returned £159 for every £1 invested on
him. If this news causes Moses Shortodds to die ot
heart, disease, this paper takes no responsibility.
Flirt, the pony that won the leaping match
at the Carterton (M.L.) Show the other day, had her
22nd birthday lately. While plodding on to these
years of discretion she has annexed no less than 4a
prizes in Maoriland. #
Advt. from London Post, October 4,1745 :
STATE LOTTERY.
At the State Lottery Office, kept by
E. WILSON,
in Oornhill, between the Mansion House, and at bis
other, the oldest State Lottery Office, at Charing
Cross, directlv behind the King on Horseback.
Tickets, Shares and Chances are sold in a more ad-
vantageous manner to the purchaser than has been
practised at other offices.
Blanks and Prizes, Annuities for Lives, and all
other Government Securities are there bought and
No. 22,883, a Prize of Ten Thousand Pounds, and
No. 6K047, a Prize of Five Thousand Pounds, besides
several others too tedious to mention, have been
sold, shared and registered by ,. TTT
F. WILSON.
* * *
Last week’s N.S.W.-Victoria tennis match
was the 54th between the two States, and the former s
win—a particularly narrow one —brings the scoring’
level with 27 each. In spite of Heath’s absence
Victoria established a lead in the singles six lubbers,
15 sets, 141 games, to six rubbers, 15 sets, 129
games. In the doubles N.S.W. got ahead with five
lubbers, 14 sets, 116 games to four rubbers, nine sets,
115 games, putting the Ma State ahead in the grand
total with 11 rubbers to 10, although Victoria won
256 games • to 245. Wertheim (Vie.), who filled the
gap left at the last moment by Heath,, and Alt' Jones
(N S.W.) were the two who most distinguished them-
selves. Jones went right through without losing a
match, in either singles or doubles. Wgrtheim had
the satisfaction of blowing* out both Metcalfe and
N. Peach in the singles, and, with Raws, he beat
Marsh and Metcalfe in the doubles.
“Snowy” Baker is promulgating a Bris-
bane carnival in aid of the Patriotic Fund. It is to
bo like the Sydney one, only more so. All the old
stunts that were familiar to the organiser’s pre-
decessors—Nero, Caligula, Heliogabalus and the rest
will be in evidence. Roman chariot racing; hand-
to-hand encounters between the police, or Lictors,
and the local fire-fighters; processions; triumphal
marches of flower-crowned gladiators and others,
dressed in costumes lent for the occasion by the J. C.
Williamson firm—all these attractions will he pre-
sented. The inhabitants are hurling themselves into
the scheme with an energy remarkable in a people
that, on the authority of Bruce Smith and Willy Kelly
themselves,, are inhabiting a climate that is unfit tor
white men. #
GONE TO GROUND.
[Fok Tiie Bulletin-.]
The High Sea Fleet is still in the Kiel Canal.
The Germans’ in Belgium are digging themselves in
for the winter. — Cables.
The German High Sea Fleet lies hid in drains, canals
and rivers.;
The German army digs a trench and gets inside and
shivers.
’Tis waste to use, on such as these, a fighting man
of merit —
A seemlier antagonist, methinks, would he a ferret.
N.S.W. ' # S.
The £100 challenge running match between
Muriel Eacott and Hazel Meers provided a qitaint
tussle at Sydney last week. When Muriel reached the
tape, Hazel (who hails from Mudgee, N.S.W.) was
4ft. behind. Time, 12 l-5sec —only l-5see. behind
the world’s record for women. Miss Eacott won
by using- the start off “all fours” against the stiff
stand-up attitude; that gave her an advantage ot fully
5 vds. The stake-money was. the highest for which
women have struggled in Australasia, and carries
with it the lOOvds. N.S.W. championship.
* * * *
The majority of Australian Rowing Asso-
ciations has’ agreed to Queensland’s suggestion to
hang up the inter-State eight-oar championship till
1916 sr perhaps later. A lot of things may he per-
haps later. *
On Saturday the javelin-throwing cham-
pionship of N. S. Wales was decided at Sydney. C.
T. Ferguson, who keeps his muscle in trim by lum-
bering the drunk and remonstrating with the. dis-
orderly, hurled the old war implement 134ft. 9in. —
15ft. 4in. farther than the next best.
* * * *
Sydney Flying Squadron’s race for the
18ft. championship brought out 19 starters on Satur-
day and the heavy blow provided the crews with all
the excitement that class of boat is famous for in
Port Jackson. At Shark Island only nine remained
in the race, and fewer than that finished. Mavis,
well sailed in conditions that suited her, led the
survivors home by 2min. 35sec. lvismet, second;
Moyana, third. #
There’s a curious proposal afoot in Sydney
for the summer baseballers and the League of
Swimmers to combine for their mutual financial
advantage. There is no suggestion of evolving a
new game of water-baseball, or anything like that.
The idea is that the 800 swimmers of the League
should become baseballers, and the 250 baseballers
should take to the water. It is easy enough tor
members of both bodies to amalgamate m this way,
as all the Swimming League’s carnivals are con-
ducted at night time, and there would thus be no
clashing in their separate fixtures. #
When, some months ago, it was suggested
that a composite hoof-ball game might be evolved
from the Rugby League and Australian football codes
the whole thing was regarded as a loke by tlie
general public and the majority of the players. How-
ever the matter reached the conference stage a \\eek
or so ago, and the draft rules for the proposed piebald
°ame are now under consideration by the executives
of the two bodies. The League scrum is eliminated
from the new game, the ball being bounced by the
referee instead. The player who secures a mark or try
is to be the kicker for goal. The Australian Game
rule, which permits a player to. advance ahead of the
ball into the enemy’s territory is to be abolished,
such plaver to be regarded as offside, there are to
be 15 players to a team ; and the cross-barred goal-
posts are' to be adopted—provided the scheme is
adopted, which is more than doubtful.
The draft rules appear to bury the outstanding
features of two excellent football codes, and they
don't supply anything but confusion in their place.
Even if the new game were adopted the stars of to-
dav, who have had a lifelong training in the finer
points of their games, would look like amateurs in
the confusion, and the high standard of Australian
football would certainly disappear universal code
for the whole of Australia and Maoriland would be
an excellent thing, but the proposed mixture is a
most ui likely candidate for that* position. *
N S W. Rugby League intended to send a
team to John Bull’s doorstep for the 1915-16 season ;
but the Northern Union has cabled the visit oil.
Bull’s athletes are too busy studying Prussian culture.
* * *
There’s an even battle going on in Syd-
ney’s Summer Baseball First-Grade Competition be-
tween Waverlev and Leichhardt. Both teams have
played five games, won four and lost one. Waverlev has
scored 41 runs and had 25 scored against it; Leich-
hardt has scraped together 45 and has 23 to (lis "
credit. Both outfits have accumulated eight com-
petition points. In fact, about the only difference
between them is their colors. * #
Australians Goullett and Grenda, who
pedalled as the “Kangaroo Team,” won the six days
bicvcie race in New York last week. live teams weie
level up to the last hour ; then the ’ Roo sprang off us
tail and passed the post in front of the worlds field.
Ivor Lawson and Crobach were second, and the third
was half composed of Australian R. McNamara, ihe
other half was Massachusetts Moran.
Goullett has now, with riding partners, won six-
days’ races at New York, Boston, Paris, Sydney and
Melbourne. If anybody is acquainted with a record
half as good in this line of shekel-accumulation he
is invited to introduce himself. * *
Frank Kramer is the world’s cycling
marvel. t'or 14 successive years lie has won the
US.A. cycling championship from the worlds best
riders. It is some consolation, however, to know
that Australia’s Goullett walloped him in a special
match. With McNamara, Spears, Clarke, Grenda
and Larrv Corbett, Goullett is expected back for tne
48 hours’ race at Sydney about New Year.
■X- * * *
The dreadful disclosure that Captain
Edwards, of the Vic. Automobile Corps, was really
and truly one Eichengrun, who regretted that there
were not a dozen Emdens hereabouts, lias stirred the
Sydney Automobile Club to action: In a circular
members “who belong by birth or nationality To
anv of those countries which are vat war with tne
British Empire” are requested to keep on the street
side of the club’s doormat while the war lasts. More-
over, if msaibers introduce visitors of enemy
nationality they will be regarded with the eye 01
extreme disfavor. #
Charles Balsarini had a fine spin across
the sou’-western corner of Australia last -month,
lie pushed his machine from Port Augusta (b.A.)
to Fremantle (W.A.), 1675 miles, in 20 days, but
his actual riding time was only 16* days. He
hopes to knock a chip off even these figures on the
return journey. „
* * * *
Motor-cyclists have reduced petrol con-
sumption to a fine point. In n recent test, Norman
Saunders, of Parramatta (N.S.W.), pn a hlh.p.
machine, consumed only 2140 z. of spirit during a
spin of 30 miles.
Of the 108 members of the Yorick Club
(Melb.) the oldest hands are Tom Carring-
ton and Watterston (1869), R. S. Smythe
(1870), Major Bartrop (1878). A. C. Wilson
(1874), and Theodore Fink (1879). S. G.
Pirani belongs to 1880; Col. Hutton (burned
to death the other day) to 1881; Dr. Felix
Myer and Stuart Reid to 1883; W. H. L.
Roberts to 1885; and Sam Leon, K.C., to
1887. It isn’t a tremendously prosperous
club owing to its small membership, but it
has £1343 more assets than liabilities and is
a good place to sleep in.
LITTLE WILLIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ascot Races. —Little Willie a Winner. —A 10 to 1
Chance.-- Sporting column headlines.
Oft 1 cursed you, Little Willie, when, with angel-
round your head,
You expired and went to glory in your little “East
Lvnne’’ bed ;
Oft I writhed in hopeless anger as you lisped some
mushy line
To a limp and sodden female (and the same was
Madame Vine).
Oh, I’ve d -d the curia of childhood simply on
account of you,
As you babbled on so simply in a. beam of limelight
blue,
And I would have “Bellorived’’ you in a dark and
noisome den.
Little Willie, Little Willie, it I could have got you
then!
Why, the name of Little Willie all my life has meant
for me
Something mad in velvet breeches —a shrill, senti-
mental flea
That attached itself to people and drew tears instead
of gore.
Ere it went to make saints snivel 91) the distant
Golden Shore.
Xow old Time has reimbursed me for those nights of
wild remorse,
Rv your gay reincarnation as a swiftly-moving horse.
I remarked, as l collected from the cursing- “books’’
my loot: j
“Little Willie! Little Willie, liowWou are a cheerful
brute!”
y.s.w.
THE GIGGLING UNDERTAKER.


,
Consider Your
Health.
Proper exercise is necessary if you want to
feel fit and strong, therefore consider your
health and investigate my PHYSICAL
CULTURE, MASSAGE and ELECTRICAL
TREATMENTS.
My treatments are not monotonous—they
are pleasant as well as beneficial.
My BATH and MASSAGE DEPARTMENT
is right up to date. It includes Hydro-
Electric, Tub and Shower Baths, Electric
Vibratory Hand Massage, and Manipulation.
My scientific Massage is a great comfort this
hot weather, and a great benefit.
My BONING COURSES are thorough and
scientific. They are specially adapted for the
needs of beginners.
Special Notice
Intending clients may consult me between the
hours of 9.30 a.m. and 6 p.m., inclusive of
Saturday. Also Monday. Tuesday, Wednesday
and Friday Evenings, from 8 till 10.
Business and professional men are specially
catered for. Personal attention and absolute
privacy are assured.
'Phone, or Call, for Terms.
Fritz Holland
Physical Culture and Boxing, Hydro=
Electric Bath and Massage Institute,
6.M.A. BUILDINGS, 32 ELIZABETH STREET,
near HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE: CITY 1002.
My Cigarillos
ARE FINE SMOKES.
Their quality is the same as
shilling Havanas, their flavor
delightful, and their value
exceptional.
Send for a sample
lot. If you don’t like
them, return them,
and I w ill only
charge you for those
smoked.
á
In Tins of
20:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
21- 1/9 1/6
In Cedar
Boxes of 50:
No. No. No.
4/9 4/3 3/9
In Cedar
Boxes of
100:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
9/- 8/- 7/-
Postage Extra
on 100:
X.S. ! !'. 6d.
Other States 3d.
Write for a
Copy of my
111 nst rated
Xmas Catalog
—Post Free
A. M. SOLOMON,
“Cigar Expert,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“SHELL”
BENZINE
AGAIN insisted on
by
Sir Ernest Shackleton
for use in
The Imperial Antarctic
Expedition.
7-h.p. Twin, Free-engine,
3-inch Tyres, £6B.
Hendee Manufacturing Co.
109 Russell Street, Melbourne, VIC.
Send for Catalog D.
WEAR RKSNEY SHOES
and you may step out into the world with
the comforting knowledge that your feet are
perfectly shod —that the shoes you wear are
the best you could procure anywhere.
The illustration shows a Choice Willow Calf
Derby Shoe, Fine Stitched Welts, Perforated
Vamp, Lace Face and Cap.
22/6 and 2 51-
In Black or Tan.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR A COPY OF OUR
CATALOG.
A
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
All Athletes
Use
BOSISTO’S
“ parrot"
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL.
"'.V. -- 1
■
~~5.
■
N:
W
Bosisto's *• Parrot Brand ” Eucalyptus Oil,
the Famed Remedy for Rheumatism, Sprains,
Bruises,Wounds, Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis
IT
fi
A
m.
m
1
.
m
m
m
m
ism
JJ.'Jjl
ftl/llj
'{
h'Kfii'!!!’,
:ii~:' r** *nl
ihuiiiim
A-T.i:
I ml
mg.
iWi
•££££
fe.T 1
The
“Lincoln-Stuart”
Summer
“Suit-Special,”
63-
The “Lincoln-Stuart” Summer Special
is a Suit in keeping' with the times. It
is something right out of the ordinary—
it represents a standard of value that is,
to put it mildly, exceptional—-it really
and truly stands
SUPREME AT THE PRICE.
The Tailoring will be well up to the
Lincoln-Stuart high standard —which is
good enough to suit any man —but THE
feature of the offer is the
MAGNIFICENT RANGE OF
SUITINGS
it includes. Every conceivable variation
of the exclusive Stripe and neat Check
designs is represented in beautiful shades
of Grey and Brown, and there is not an
inch of Stuff in the whole range that is
not of certified quality.
WRITE FOR PATTERNS.
A full range with Self-Measurement
Forms, Tapes, etc., together with a copy
of our Catalog, will be sent you Post
Free by return.
The special Suitings are worth far more
to the wearer than the price we are ask-
ing, and we cannot extend the offer in-
definitely, so write at once. Remember,
we make to a 6-Day Schedule. We pay
Freight, and we Guarantee Satisfaction.
Lincoln Stuart
& Co. Pty. Ltd.,
“Outfitters by Mail,”
244-254 Flinders Street, Melbourne


Ml
m
Weatherproof
TULLE
<J Ordinary Tulle—when exposed to
moist, damp air or rain—quickly loses the
distinctive charm of the fabric.
(J Don’t buy ordinary Tulle when y u can get
“Dynamo” Rainproof Tulle. If your Hat
is trimmed with “ Dynamo ” you know before-
h ind that weather can’t mir its beauty.
51 "Dynamo” Tulle is proof against climate
and weather. The hat you trim with it can be
worn fearlessly anywhere—everywhere. Damp
atmosphere and rain won’t worry you because
“Dynamo” is waterproof.
51 The economy of “ Dynamo ** is self-apparent
.1 r. 1* TT'.-ll _
vkuuoss
—months after o dinary l ulle
has become limp and lifeles; it
still looks the same as when
purchased. Frequent renewals
are entirely dispensed with.
:
RAINPROOF TullC
36 ins. wide. In Black, White
and all fashionable shades.
9d„ 10R, 1/-, 1/3 and 1/6
per yari upwa ds.
C. All the best Milliners us “ Dynamo ” Rain roof
Tulle. All the best Stores sell it by the yard. But
be sure you get the genuine. The name is on the end
of the card on which the Tulle is wound. If any
dif iculty in obtaining locally, send direct to address
below, statin colour, quanti y and price per yard, and
we will see that you are imm diately supplied.
“DYNAMO” ENQUIRY DEPT.,
Carlton House, York Street, Sydney.
Fisher’s Advertising Agency.
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
a"-e, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. B.
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those vears of difference if you are Kiev or prema-
turely Krev. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. B. ALLEN’S oj.s.a.)
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suitable
for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
We invite you to buy a box of “ De
Reszke” Cigarettes and compare them
with any brand you please. 1 heir quality
will appeal to you.
o
Deßeszke
Q
Home-made Beauty Helps
and Money-saving Recipes.
By RITA MOYA.
It is quite impossible for me to give advice in these columns regarding the
various'preparations on the market. In general, my advice to women who pre .
or regain, their youthful appearance is to civon le many ’ result g are obtained
parations. Nature provides many simple beautlfiers, a ' trouble in obtain-
from their use. You must not be disappointed i you exper ence n ttle auy
ing some of the ingredients mentioned below, they can aU 1e: obta > ’ gladly
reliable chemist, and even if he does not happen to have them ini stock he v B
obtain them for you at a few hours’ notice, if vou msist-and you should insist,
smart, dainty woman of to-day likes to know what she is using.
Sure Way of Permanently Removing
Superfluous Hairs. —The usual hair removers
on the market I have found not at all satis-
factory. I recommend the following prepara-
tion. It is really wonderful in its action,
destroying hairs completely in a few moments.
Many women have merely a down on the arms
and ' face, and imagine they do not need a
hair remover. They hardly realise what a
wonderful difference there would be in their
appearance if this down, even light as it
may be, were removed. Get at any good
chemist an ounce of pure powdered pheminol.
Mix a little of it into a paste with water and
apply it to the hair growths. Wash off after
two minutes and the hairs will have entirely
disappeared. A little non-greasy face cream
can then be applied with advantage.
Powder Not Necessary. —Few women know
that it is possible to give the complexion a
delightfully smooth, velvety appearance in a
few moments by the application of ordinary
cleminite. If you have no cleminite in the
house, get about an ounce from your chemist
and dissolve it in four tablespoonsful of cold
water. This lotion applied to the face, neck
or arms, with the finger tips, immediately
gives that peacli-like bloom so much admired;
powder is not necessary, and the result lasts
all day long. For an evening in a hot ball-
room this recipe is unrivalled. You will not
get that greasy, shiny look so often seen after
a little exertion.
Natural Wavy Hair.— You hair will regain
its rich lustre and fluffy appearance if cleansed
occasionally with a mild shampoo. The very
best thing I know of for this purpose is plain
stallax, a teaspoonful of which dissolved in
a cup of hot water is sufficient for the thickest
growth of hair. Pure stallax, however, seems
rather expensive, as it is only sold in the
original packages which cost half a crovwi.
This quantity, however, is sufficient tor -o> o-
-30 shampoos, so it really is most economica
in the long run. Dry. irritating or profusely
oily scalps are soon put in a healthy condi-
tion. and dull, brittle hair grows bright aim
even in color, and will he ever so soft and
fluffy.
Hair Culture.— There is no excuse for falling
hair; no excuse for thin, sick .
spots. No beauty of features can make up ioi
a distressing lack of hair growth, and the
formula which I purpose giviug you w “ posi
tively force the hair to grow Mix about an
ounce of boranium in i-pint of bay rum,
shake the bottle well and allow it to stand toi
half an hour, then add i-pint of fresh cold
water and strain. Rub well into the SC *“P»
and in two weeks’ time look for the new
growth; you will not require a microscope to
see it.
To Renew Complexions without Cosmetics.
lf the excessive user of cosmetics only
knew the impression her artificiality really
makes upon others, she would quickly seek
the means of gaining a natural complexion.
Let her acquire the inercolised wax habit, dis-
carding make-up entirely, and she will soon
have the kind of complexion that women envy
and men admire. It is so easy to get a
little inercolised wax from the cliennst and
use it nightly like cold cream, washing it ott
in the morning. Gradually the lifeless, soiled
outer cuticle peels off in tiny invisible ujikcs,
and in a week or so you have a brand new
complexion, clear, soft, velvety and of girlish
color and texture. The treatment is so simple,
harmless and marvellously effective the won-
der is that every woman whose skin is with-
ered and discolored has not already adopted m
-“I
ny)
H. GRIN DELL MATTHEWS (the Inventor
lflcredjrom.
irrt
T «. «■» 1—
some conditions, or lor 'dejection, ihd tt 'imriie-
diately renews the strength of my nerves, and
exercises a stimulating effect on the whole of
the nervous
well-known
(the
ROBERT
RADFORD
“I have derived the greatest
Bass Singer) writes
ng
HONORED
T^OYAL
COMMAND
vocally relaxed, Phosferine immediately restores
resonance and brightness to the voice, bartishes
lassitude, and generally tones up the system.
—63, Havcrstock Hill, London, England. '^4
tJVEHLEN, the talented and charming
I have used Phosferine with really
general health. The unusual exertions
ysals make one nervously anxious and
much 'induces dull
effectually
tonic for
lotes the
sure it
one’si
Miss EM |
Actress, w
excel
and
onl
m s'
K
i*v firsi
iniracu-
» lose al\
ms
m
.3*
m
•jm
M
thcr
hosferinc
mother
Mr. B. C. HUCKS (the w
Englishman to "Loop tht;,
■eally must express my ap"
Pt*ne back I felt myself in
brought on, no doubt, by ri
under all sorts of weather
lour last summer. 1 had
becoming shaken. 1 was advised
Iquite astonished at the beneficial
■the first few doses. 1 am now fe
and ready to start upon a season’s flymfTOat promises
■considerable more arduous than the lasf. —ll6, Piccadill
Englchd
_ dreary
weather.
order % and
>sity as my
indon, Eng.
At the hands of any Chemist this is what you should obtain
PHOSFERINE is a World-wide Remedy for
Indigestion
Anaemia
Insomnia
Lassitude
Debility
Neuralgia
Loss of Appetite
All Nerve Trouble
Just 5 to 10 drops of this golden remedy in a wineglass of water.
The orisinal and Genuine PHOSFERINE is in buff packages, and be particular to
moHce th' t iis spelt P-H-O-S-F-E-R-I-N-E. Price-1/, 2/6 & 4/6. Ifyoufindanyd!®-
eultytn obtaining supplies send Postal Note to Ashton & Parsons, 408 Collins St. Melo.
(SHEAR WITH THE FAMOUS
FALKINER ELECTRIC EQUIPMENT
â
Invented by a practical Australian Pastoralist, it will be found the
FALKINER ELECTRIC SHEEP SHEARING Machine combines
many striking advantages, of which the following are a few:—
(1) It is easy to erect.
(2) Entire absence of trouble-
some line shafting.
(3) independent motor for each
man.
(4) Electric power available for
shed lighting.
(5) The patent universal joint
enables the shearer to
work with ease and com-
fort.
(6) Any hand piece may be
used.
(7) Silent running and practi-
cally no v.bration.
(8) No special type of shed
necessaiy the Fa!klner
Electric Machine will fit
any shed, old or new.
(9) Electricity is the safest.
cheapest and cleanest
power!
©
This machine, which has been patented all over
the world, stands unique in design, simple in con-
struction, and unequa’led in small consumption of
power. Sheep are shorn at the minimum of cost
and the maximum of efficiency.
Write for full details, also for our illustrated leaflet
dealing with the Electric Lighting of Shearing Sheds.
FALRINER
ELECTRIC COY.
103-5 William St., Melbourne, and Somerset House, 5 Moore St., Sydney
The Inky Way.
“June Cottontail” : The men who are fix-
ing up the cables on the great dailies con-
tinue to distinguish themselves occasionally.
On November 1 a message came through
that the Allies had lost a few “points
d’appui” south of Ypres, “Points d’appui”
is good schoolroom French. The Age, how-
ever, brought its geographical knowledge to
bear, and announced: “We recaptured
Ramscapelle. . . .and lost a few points of
Lappui, south of Ypres.” The Argus
looked up its “Baedeker,” or “Almanach de
Gotha” or “Haydn’s Dictionary of Dates,”
and learnedly observed: “We lost a few
points of d’Appui (fixed objects on which
troops commenced formation into line), south
of Ypres.” Thus does the simple phrase for
“points of attack” masquerade in one case
as a town, and in the other as something
that never was on sea or land.
* * * •
The London Times, which is a yellow
hustler these days, has started to issue a
history of the war in monthly parts, price
lOd. So, if the war lasts 14 years—and
some British authorities reckon such a thing
as possible—there will be a camel load of
1(38 parts. As for the accuracy of the in-
formation it is hard to say, but the general
policy of men like Joffre and Rennenkampf
and French seems to lie to chase the war
correspondent over the horizon at the
shortest notice, after confiscating his notes
and having his camera trodden to death by
wild horses.
From London: The war continues to do
great •slaughter in the Inky Way. C. B.
Fry, cricketer and athlete, has clapped a
temporary extinguisher on the monthly
magazine he has conducted during the past
11 years. “This is not the time for sport,”
C.B. says, and goes on to enumerate the
members of his stall, including himself, who
have listed.
“Smudge”: The men who sell printing ink
have of late been able to get an occasional
streak of joy out of life. I met one of them
the other day, and he reported cheerfully
that his place had been swept clean of all
sorts of unsaleable relics. Stock that he had
long diagnosed as past hope had been hauled
out and carted away to help make another
special war issue. And aren’t some of them
horrible examples! I bought one the other
night and took it home to a small boy who
loves soldier-pictures. lie was occupying a
white cot and a snowy pair of pyjamas; but,
after he had turned over the leaves, he
looked as if he had been chased through a
chimney. My own private opinion is that
they are printing some of these things with
dried soup. And there’s no excuse for it, for
some of the best printing ink in the world
has been manufactured in Australia during
the last couple of years.
* * * *
“Kaniva”: Mrs. Chevalier, one of the
little group of artists who brightened Mel-
bourne in the ’so’s, lives in one of the com-
fortable hotels overlooking Kensington Gar-
dens, London. She is the widow of Nicholas
Chevalier, the first cartoonist of Melbourne
Punch. The son of a high official in the
Czar’s household, Chevalier was a versatile
artist, who introduced chromo-lithography in
Melbourne, and, besides painting some fine
landscapes in oils, did portraits as well.
Occasionally he was dangerously near to
starvation, but now, being dead, his oils are
much admired. He accompanied the Duke
of Edinburgh to England on the Galatea,
making drawings of places of interest on the
way, and after settling in London was com-
missioned by Queen Victoria to paint
“Thanksgiving Day Procession” (February
27. 1873). Mrs. Chevalier, who is wonder-
fully bright for her age (nearly 90), was a
great favorite in Melbourne in those early
days.
THE POET AT THE REAR.
[OR THE BULLETIN.]
The poet’s over forty and his teeth are fairly “crook ;
He cannot take the exercise which in his youth he
took;
His measurements are wrong-end-up and corns are on
his feet,
And most precise is he about the things he has to
eat.
But, though he cannot go to fight—he is a married
man —-
He's done his share of war-work ever since the scrap
began,
With a bump and bang and rattle, with a smash and
crashing whoo-oosh !
In a manner quite sincere,
Never beating round the bush,
Fighting-verses full of curses lie is writing at the
rear.
He is busy with loud war cries and a message up-to
date,
And he slams the foes of Britain in a manner almost
great.
Yes, his phrases are the sort to drive the Tun.
Verein to drink
As he swamps the kinkish Kaiser with a geyser of
wild ink.
With his free and facile quilling he is doing Britain
proud,
And his ready wit is dazzling and his mirth is large
and loud!
With a slash and splash and’ wallop, with a clash
and clatter — cra-a-ash !
Oh, the time is drawing near
For a goodly German smash,
As he rattles off his really rabid writings at the rear!
When the battle-poet’s beering in the haunts of
brainy men
Where the truly loyal gather—well, there is some
talking then.
There’s thunder in the poet’s voice and lightning in
his eyes,
And to his lips, persistently, imposing periods rise,
And with his bosliter back-hair waving bravely to and
fro
He tells of how disaster should be handed to the foe,
With a biff and bash and batter, stars and purple
blazes — sma-a-ack f
[Look, he’s gone and spilt his beer!]
How he keeps the foeman back,
With a gush of glowing language, working wonders
at the rear !
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


NO RIFLES FOR GERMANY
WORK FOR AUSTRALIANS!
DO not buy German goods, thus sending your money
to Germany to help provide rifles for German
soldiers ; and do not excuse yourself on the grounds
that the German pianos you would buy are already in
Australia —how do you know the importer has paid for
them yet ? Most of these goods are paid for only some
little time after landing, and for hosts of German pianos
now in Australian stores the makers have not yet received
their money.
Keep your money in Australia ! Provide work
for Australians ! Buy an Australian Piano ! Australian
craftsmen are as capable of making first-rate pianos
as any in the world, especially when acting under the
direction of such a world-famed expert as Mr. G. D. Rose,
who is recognised everywhere in the Trade as probably the
greatest living expert in tone production.
Satisfy yourself by personal inspection that Beale Pianos
are worthy of your support. We have sold over 21,000 of
them in Australia and elsewhere, and everywhere they are
giving the utmost satisfaction. The Governor of New South
Wales, Sir Gerald Strickland, K.C.M.G., is at present
using a Beale Piano at Government House. Her Excellency
Lady Fuller, wife of a Governor of Victoria, personally
selected a Beale Piano from our Showrooms in Melbourne
for the use of herself and daughters. Lady Northcote, wife
of the ex-Governor-General, personally ordered a Beale
Piano after inspection of our factories, methods of work and
systems of construction. The Beale Pianos were awarded
the Grand Prize and three Gold Medals at the Franco-British
Exhibition in competition with the world’s best British and
foreign makes. Leading musicians and great educational
institutions throughout Australia have had numbers of
Beale Pianos in daily use for years, with complete satisfac-
tion. With every Beale Piano we give a written guarantee
for 25 years, and this guarantee is the most comprehensive
warranty ever applied to a musical instrument.
We use only the very finest materials, the highest
skilled workmanship and the most up-to-date systems of
construction in making Beale Pianos. They are specially
made to withstand the Australian climate, and contain
improvements of .undoubted value.
Support Your Own Country!
Buy a BEALE PIANO !
CASH OR EASIEST TERMS.
CATALOGUES FREE.
And here are a few more facts for your consideration
a few distinct advantages for yourself.
1. lou Make a Big-Saving in Price, Quality for Quality.
. en Uy your Beale Piano direct from the factory, without paying
pronts to any middlemen or agents, and without paying the 35 per
cm. Customs duty (equal to 7s. in every £, or £35 in every £1U0),
which is charged upon imported pianos. We do not claim to supply
38 Fx-rn H,l )iauo f° r as importing houses will supply for £IUO ; but
our £oJ Beale Piano is a better musical instrument than an imported
piano at £SO.
2. You get a Better-toned Piano.
beale Pianos have a most harmonious, mellow, delightful tone. They
contain the only successful steel tuning-system ever invented, and by
means of this device the tuning-pins are held firmly for all time,
confining all sound to the sounding hoard, which is the only proper
construction. This invention makes the piano more durable, because
the iron frame alone bears all the tremendous strain (nearly 30 tons)
of the two hundred and sixteen tightly-stretched steel strings. This
construction cannot be had in any other pianos. Twenty thousand
pianos have been made by us on this principle.
o. A Better-toned Piano because, also, of the Violin-like Sounding-
Board.
Only Beale Pianos contain sounding-boards constructed on the same
punciple as a violin-belly. This construction, and our secret sounding-
board varnish, are responsible for that splendid tone which wins such
favor with singers especially. The Beale tone is sympathetic, sweet,
mellow, sonorous and lasting. The tone of Beale Pianos, beautiful at
first, improves with use. This is a sure test of an artistically con-
structed piano.
4. You get a Longer-lasting Piano.
Beale Pianos are made in the Australian climate, of timber seasoned
in the Australian climate, so they will withstand the Australian
climate better than pianos which are made in cold, wet countries.
o. Your Beale Piano will have a Better Touch.
We supply a better “action”—one of the most expensive parts of the
instrument—in Beale Pianos than you find in any other pianos of
similar price. We supply the recognised best action in the world in
even our £74 Beale Pianos, whereas you must pay not less than £lO5
tor an imported piano containing the same action-system. It provides
that perfect touch demanded by. master-pianists.
b. You Gain by the Unique Experience of probably the Greatest
Piano Expert in the World.
Associated with the founder of this Company (Mr. O. C. Beale) is
Mr. George D. Rose, for many years Technical Director of Messrs.
John Broadwood & Sons, London, now acting exclusively as our
technical Expert and Factory Manager. Mr. Rose is the third
generation in his family to devote a lifetime to high-grade piano
making. He has had a unique experience in all branches of the art
m the best piano factories of England, Germany, France and America,
and is recognised in Europe as probably the greatest expert in tone-
production in the world. He has invented epoch-making improvements
in pianos. He was for over twelve years President of the British Piano
Makers Association. No other piano-maker in the world has had such
a wide and varied experience as Mr. Rose.
7. You Get a Written Guarantee from Us—the MAKERS—for
Twenty-five Years.
No other maker guarantees his pianos for such a lengthy period—ten
years is the usual thing. But we know how Beale Pianos are con-
structed, and we know they will last longer than any others. In any
case, if you buy an. imported piano you will find that the guarantee
(if any) thereon will not be of much value to you, as the maker is
in Europe, twelve thousand miles distant from you ; whereas we are
here, in Australia, with all our interests in Australia, ready to support
our guarantee on the spot.
8. You are Safe in your Investment, because you Buy from by far
the Largest Piano-Sellers in Australia, whose Name is
worth more in Pounds sterling than any other.
Our reputation for fair dealing has been built up during many years,
and you are safe in buying from ns, because we stand to lose more, in
actual cash investments than would any other piano firm in the
Commonwealth, if we do not keep up the high quality of our pianos
and our name for fair, liberal treatment of those who buv from us.
Our investments in this business total more than Three hundred
thousand pounds (actually £325,000). Y'ou may be sure that if only
for our own sake we shall take every care to treat you liberally and
straightforwardly.
9. Only Beale Pianos have Quite Reliable Bass-Strings.
You. know that in all pianos the strings (steel wires) in the bass
portion are wound with copper or other wire to make them heavier
and thus afford the necessary slow vibrations. In Beale Pianos these
steel wires are six-sided, instead of round, and thus afford a firm grip
for the copper winding. Consequently no Beale Piano ever develops
buzzing noises caused by loose binding of the bass-strings. Other
pianos have round, steel wire in the bass, affording no secure grip for
the copper. Six-sided steel wire costs more than twice as much as
the round.
10. You Get a Piano which is Built Only of Tested Parts.
Every part—every detail —of every Beale Piano is tested and scrupu-
lously examined before it is embodied in the instrument. The
slightest flaw in material or workmanship and the part is entirely
rejected.
11. Your Beale Piano is Guaranteed against Damage in Transit.
We take the entire risk of damage in delivery of the Beale Piano right
up to your door; you take no risk. If it should be damaged by any
mischance we make it good, or supply another piano of equal duality.
12. In case of Damage while in Use, your Beale Piano is Easily
Repaired.
We are the makers of the Beale Pianos, and our factory is here in
Australia. Therefore, should any part of your Beale Piano be
damaged through accident or carelessness, we can always supply new
parts at low cost, and the piano is restored as good as new. ' How
could you obtain new parts for a foreign piano? The agents do not
carry stocks of spare parts, and they have no factory facilities for
making them, either. We can make or renew any part of any Beale
Piano at any time.
THINK IT OVER.
If you make a careful study of such advantages as other firms offer you
and compare them with the foregoing, you are sure to come to the conclusion
that you will be getting most benefit by obtaining a Beale Piano. Study
what we have said above —think it all over—and you will say that'it is just
simple commonsense reasoning.
BEALE <a CO., LTD.,
Head Office and Factories: TRAFALGAR, NELSON and COLLINS STREETS, ANNANDALE, N.S.W.
City Showrooms: 136 - 136 b LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
George Street, Bathurst
Yass Street, Young
Wagga
Lismore
Orange
70 Hunter Street, Newcastle
Argent Street, Broken Hill
131 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.
839 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
273 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane, Q’iand.
Townsville
Maryborough
Mackay
Rockhampton
Cairns


—~z ~
■
ias
Asrul
i
u ;>•
m
mm
The
Daintiest of
XMAS GIFTS
Can you imagine a more charming
idea in Christmas or New Year
cards than a Zenobia-perfumed
Greeting Sachet?
“All the world and his wife” know
Zenobia Perfumes—the only faithful re-
productions of the. scents of such long-
cherished flowers as the Lily of the
Valley, the Sweet Pea and the Night-
scented Stock. Zenobia Sachets are im-
pregnated with these or other delicious
fragrances.
Made in silk or satin in a large variety
of shapes and tints, and enclosed in
pretty book-form greeting cards. Ask to
be shown a selection.
Wholesale Agents for Australasia:
THE A. 31. & I. CO., LTD,,
5-11 Parker Street (Hay market),
Sydney; and 100 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
£ENOBIA
â
Sole Manufacturers:
ZENOBIA LiTD., Dept. 72,
LOUGHBOROUGH,
ENGLAND.
MOUSTACHES
CROWS
QUICKLY !
5?
Hundreds have proved
the merit of this ex-
cellent preparation.
Capillarine develops
the moustache with-
out injuring the skin.
Its use cannot be
detected.
Bend for a Jar To-day-10/6 post free
Craig: & Aitken,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established Over 30 Years.
THE “ TRIUMPHATOR
9 9
mnrn
CALCULATING MACHINE
is the greatest TIME-SAVING, BRAIN-SAVING
and MONEY-SAVING device that has ever been
introduced to the Office World.
The only machine that always shows you the
actual figures you are working with.
Illustrated Catalogue on application.
A. P. Greenfield 8 Co. Ltd.
189 George St.,
BRISBANE.
Proved by independent
scientific investigation
to have a Body-Build-
ing Power of 10 to
20 times the amount
taken.
Friend— PEDIC POMADE for THE HEAD
Strikes infesting vermin dead. One applica-
tion destroys vermin, kills nits, heals sores, cures
ringworm, and makes the hair grow thick and
curly. Kills lice on live stock.
Sydney Agents: Talbots, 206 George Street;
and Washington Soul. Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, or posted from J. Brin, Chemist,
East Malvern, Vic.—l/2, 2/3, 3/9, and with Nit
Comb. 6d. extra.
Hotel Stewart
SAN FRANCISCO
A high-class hotel very favorably known to
travellers from Australia, New Zealand and
the Orient. Headquarters for Britishers in
San Francisco. New steGl and concrete struc-
ture. Third annex just completed. 350
rooms. 250 connecting bathrooms. Every
comfort and convenience. Beautifully fur-
nished. Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping, theatre
and cafe districts. On street car lines to all
parts of city. Our omnibuses with uni-
formed attendants meet all steamers and
trains. Travellers are urged to make reser-
vations by letter or wireless to be assured
the most satisfactory accommodation. Cable
address, “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals, 16s. a day and up.
Rooms without Meals, Bs. a day and up.
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
Proprietors,
Constipation and
Sluggish Liver
Don’t take chances. Get CARTER’S
LITTLE LIVER PILLS right now. They
never fail to make the liver
do its duty. Tney cure com
Stipation, banish indi-
gestion, drive out
biliousness and the
blues, stop dizzi-
ness, clear the
complexion,
put a healthy
glow on the
cheek and
ã
Carters
■ITTLE*
IVER
PILLS.
sparkle in the eye. There are manv imitations. Be
sure and get CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS. The
pill is small, dose is small, price is small, but resuite
are alright. The GENUINE must bear signature
7
Washable
Tubular
Ties
Ask for Cash’s
Seamless
Poplin
Ties
Ask for Cash’s
The N.S.W. Society of Artists.
Two examples of flesh painting and one of
portraiture—all remarkable—are sufficient to
give distinction to any exhibition. Inasmuch
as it has two examples of the former, by
George Lambert and Norman Lindsay re-
spectively, and one of the latter, by Derwent
Wood, the collection of works which has been
assembled in Sydney by the Society of
Artists is important.
Dealing with the lesser works first, one
notices Max Meldrum’s “Portrait” (No. SI),
because it has been painted to provoke discus-
sion. Nothing in a picture should be there with-
out a reason, but this one is fertile in super-
fluities. Take the bare spaces. Bare spaces on
a canvas may properly be used to lead the
eye to the culminating note of a picture; but
if the bare patch becomes apparent merely as
a thing in itself, there is something clearly
wrong. The Lambert picture is an instance
of the value of the bare patch as handled by
a master. There it is necessary, but in this
picture it is worse than meaningless. Again,
the management of the planes, whether in-
tentionally or otherwise, is wrong. One
must assume that a man who, like Meldrum,
was able to paint the interior mentioned
below, intended what he was doing. If the
right cheek is intended to be in the same
plane of light as the nose and forehead, the
plane is wrong. If it is intended to be in
shadow, the illusion is missed. In either
event the only intention apparent is to
invite discussion. For an instance of legiti-
mate intention, adequately expressed, one
turns to the same painter’s “An Interesting
Chapter” (No. 103). This is an interior
done in the quiet spirit of Alfred Stevens,
the Flemish painter of interiors. In this
case there can be no question of any sub-
intention, for the painter has clearly been
making something which he enjoys himself,
and consequently his enjoyment is trans-
lated to the spectator.
Julian Ashton contributes only three ex-
amples, of which “The Crevice” (No. S 4)
has a cool and refreshing quality of atmo-
sphere. Lionel Lindsay, in his etchings, shows
his flair for those quaint old places one
hadn’t suspected the existence of. “St.
James’s Church, Melbourne” (No. 19) looks
like some remote Italian campanile. Alfred
Clint shows a genuine gift for the handling
of water color. He seems to have the trick
of controlling that apparently accidental
quality in the wash which is the end to be
attained. Harley Griffiths contributes what
is called “Still Life —Child’s Head” (No.
79). If there is really any object in draw-
ing a still-life head of a live child apparently
in grisaille, it may be said that this is an
amusing way of doing it. Florence Ilodway
labors under the difficulty which is the worry
-of all portraitists (above all, for some reason
of all pastellists)—the difficulty of “pleasing
the mother.” In the one instance where she is
freed from these shackles—No. 147, the por-
trait of a fellow-artist’s child —she proceeds
freely and easily to an accomplishment of
“Charm” —“which, like the word gentleman,
“was an excellent good word until it was
ill-sorted.” Elioth Gruner is of considerable
interest. He appears to be wandering
about. In “Gold and Turquoise—Bondi”
(No. 162) he has Whistler in his mind and
Lavery on his brush —the Lavery of the
North African evanescences. The paint is
crisp and full of meaning and the drawing
assured. All these remarks apply to his
“Jewelled Beach” (No. 167). In No. 170
he attempts vibrating color, which is clearly
not his metier. In No. 171 he seemingly
attempts painting with the tube and the
palette knife, two things which should never
lie discouraged. In the three big pictures
lie fails. Over these large spaces he becomes
tired and labored. It is the old and frequent
trouble of the painter—the trouble that jam
enough for a slice won’t spread over the loaf.
To come to the three works of real import-
ance. The Derwent Wood is an example of
one of those rarest of things—a portrait.
Irrespective of questions of resemblances,
which are of secondary importance in such
matters, this work creates in itself an indivi-
dual. This is the function of great portrait-
ure. It is relatively immaterial whether
Pope Innocent was like his famous portrait.
The thing is that Velasquez created the
individual we know.
Norman Lindsay’s contribution to the exhi-
bition will very likely make it a landmark in
the history of painting in Australia. This is
because of his insistence upon the importance
of the. nude, a fact hitherto ignored here.
Portraiture and the nude have always formed
the two chief preoccupations of the Masters,
and they must ever so remain for every
painter. It is difficult to realise that
Lindsay’s acquaintance with the medium of
paint only extends over two years, and that
he is nevertheless already reducing to form
and coherence the countless elusive subtleties
of flesh. He stumbles, of course, at times ;
but the beautiful enamelled surfaces of the
“Adoration” (No. 69) prove him to be the
possessor of that rare and dexterous gift
which matures only after many years of toil.
An example of it is the picture of a coster
girl by Lambert. The few square inches of
paint composing the face are of more beauty
and of more value to students than many
lards of the material furnished for inspec-
tion in our galleries. The work throughout
is that of one who, after a lifetime of labor,
has bested the enemy and emerged a master.
With the assurance of a general marshalling
his men, Lambert takes command of a recal-
citrant mob of colors and subordinates them
to his will. The whole thing radiates a satis-
fying sense of order and completeness. These
three works in themselves put the exhibition
in a category apart.
W. B. D.
Australia has been in the habit of import-
ing its dyes either direct from Germany or
from Germany through England. Four-
fifths of England’s dyeing material came
from Germany (even the dye for the soldier’s
khaki was German), and now, of course,
the supply has failed and British
textile makers are thinking hard. Their
position is that they have got or can get
the raw material to manufacture dyes and
the capital to start factories, but it would
take not less than two years before a plant
would reach a satisfactory manufacturing
stage, and by that time Germany may be
fighting like grim death to hold or regain its
old business. So “the trade” in England is
frankly throwing Freetrade overboard and
asking for a Protective import duty.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stampe .
Name and address must appeal on MSS. 0
liability is undertaken re contributions vo un
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Mid-Channel: Don’t you know anything
about your subject? The writers spoken of colloqui-
ally as “the Irish dramatists”—just as Congreve,
Wycherly and the rest are spoken of as “the drama-
tists of the Restoration”—are essentially moderns.
Synge and W. B. Yeats—two of the greatest of them
—are as far ahead of men like Jones, Carton and
Haddon Chambers as Wells is ahead of Hall Caine.
If Shaw does not appeal to you as a “finished drama-
tist,” perhaps Ibsen may. Most of his works appeared
in book form before they were produced ; and some of
the mediaeval plays have not been produced yet. 1 o
sum up, certain front-rank dramatists (Barrie, for ex-
ample) write solely for the stage and don’t publish
their plays. Others write for the stage first and for
the reading public afterwards—as Sutro and Pinero.
A third class, comprising Tennyson (whose “Becket
was played by Henry Irving long after it had appeared
in book form), Shaw, Ibsen, Maeterlinck, etc., write
equally for the library and the stage. There is no
rule on the subject, and your effort to burden the
literary world with one strikes this paper as mis-
guided, not to say impudent... .L.A.: (1) Yes. (2)
There is a small percentage of deaths amongst those
treated. (3) No A. P. Christensen: If the war
goes long enough that is what will happen. . . • Ihe
Nut: Cracked. .. .Lover of Fair Play : Thanks... .
Peter Porcupine: No good going into that any farther.
....Bloore: Don’t know the Legion, but have for-
warded your remarks to the Australian Ladies’ Bat-
tery... .R.G.H.: News to hand; in what goods train
did you send it ?. .. . P.A.C.: (1) The Commonwealth
is not under martial law. No one can be executed
without a formal trial. (2) The Commonwealth was
under no compulsion to assist the Allies, nor would
Australians have been regarded as “rebels” had the.v
neglected to do so. Fools and curs perhaps, but not
rebels. .. .King W.: Unconvincing. .. .Charles F. P.:
The illuminated address to the bird is not satis-
factory T.0.P.: The MS. is worthless. But you
might have attached your name and address. We had
to bury the poor thing as a pauper.... Alex. B.:
Very rocky verse now outward bound....A.J.M.
(Syd.) : No value here... .Corpuscle: If previous un-
noticed contributions were anything like present
ones, they were not noticed because it was our day
for being kind... .G.W.P.: You succeed in being
dull. ... W.R.0.H.: Insulting remarks about the
Kaiser excite very little interest now. He has been
called everything by the best people in the writing
business. .. .M.A.K.R.: Both unsuitable. .. .Jack L.:
A trifle too gory.... General Notice to War Poets:
The following have suffered reverses: M.W. (W.A.) ;
S. ; R.M.V.; Flint S. ; Tom T. ; Tom J. (Sydney) ;
Henry P. ; E.N.H.; Elsie G. ; J.R.F. ; Henry H.;
T. ; Em 0.... W.McG.: It was better done by a
Bulletin versifier years ago... . Cardenio: Old theme
and the ending is painfully weak.... Rodney C.:
Story cursed by a special process and thrown out..
Ensign: Tender tripe; but it needs stewing. .. .11.
Forsyth: Nothing publishable in the batch....
F. : More like jangle than jingle... .Matt
O’B.: Pass, friend, and all’s wrong!. ... R.N.C.: It
failed to rise again.... Platonian: Why waste a nice
cool mountain by writing that fevered stuff on top of
it?... .Norman B.: It’s heavy going. .. .11. V. (Q.) :
Not a bit humorous... .Murkah: Hopeless... .F.L.H.:
Nearly all of us have missed girls.... Y.: Unsuit-
able... .M.P.: No business... .T.S.: Don’t try to
break into song: you are neither a bird nor a poet. ..
R.M.P.: Too labored.... Simple: It is a fair imita-
tion :—•
A SEA TRAGEDY.
Hard driven was a ship
O’er the stormy sea
While the captain groaned
In his agony,
While the evil Mate
To the Captain’s wife
Said “Be mine or else
I will end your life!”
At this moment grim
On a rocltbound shore
The good ship struck
And the mate fell O’er.
The Captain was freed
By his wife o’erjoyed
Then he fell on the Mate
Who was much annoyed.
.. . .William Butters (“His Majesty’s Australian
Author and Poet; Vice-regal Poet of Australia”):
One verse from your outburst entitled “George By
the Grace of God! King”:—
On the Throne, sad, mighty, glorious,
Sits a grave and patient face;
Christ the Lord doth make victorious
George, Elect of God and race.
But, William, isn’t it very uncomfortable?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.T.8.: You’re neither a humorist nor an artist. ...
G.L.R.: Forgive and forget. .. .R.S.H. : It hasn't
sufficient interest... .Tom J.C.: Unsuitable for
reproduction Lred P.P.: Same trouble... .Rupert
E.: How do you manage to do such bad work?....
Fred P. B.: The worst libel on John Bull yet received.
....Ernest M. (V.) : Afraid no prospect of doing
anything. .. .F.P.: Well, what about it? The Kaiser
sitting on the rock beneath the wooden flag with the
strange inscription seems to be ignoring the sea-
devil. Is the joke on the devil?. . . .11y.C.: Can’t use
it.... Rob. S.: Your devil isn’t amusing. ... Evelyn
D.: It’s a long way to the joke... .H.S.W.: ’They
look somewhat improbable... .E.C.G.: Your attempt
to draw the Kaiser is a shameful failure. . . .J. McG.:
The best encouragement we can offer you is, “Give it
up-”
A suspicion is abroad that it was Aus-
tralia’s desire to look large and generous
without any immediate expense which brought
about the worst disaster Britain has experi-
enced in this war. This country allowed the
Seydlitz, a swift German liner with a ’‘wire-
less” apparatus on board, to leave Sydney,
even when British ships were being seized in
German ports. The oeydlitz fled with its
“wireless” to Valparaiso. And some German
influence (provided with “wireless”), at or
about Valparaiso, seems to have supplied the
news which enabled the Germans to surprise
and overwhelm Admiral Cradock’s little
squadron.
Sir Charles Cayzer, of the Clan Line, has
two sons-in-law (Admirals Jellicoe and
Madden), three sons, two grandsons and two
nephews in the place where they are most
likely to get hurt. Cayzer. himself of Ger-
man* extraction, started as a steward in the
Clan Line, became purser, and made good
as manager of an Eastern branch. Then he
became general manager on an over-riding
commission; so that, even if the freight
didn’t pay the Clan Liue very well, it paid
Cayzer. By-and-bye, Cayzer was the chief
owner of the line, and then he paid £lOO,OOO
for the Scotland house of the Socialist
Cunningliamc Grahame, ex-M.P., and settled
down.


o.
c?
J
\QX7 J
3
m
///
n
r~
&
%
U*
Mr
a
%
&
vT. fj
A*
IT
*<2
;»;
vk
&
i»V
m 3
if!
lII®
You may think it s kidney trouble every time you have a
backache, but most likely it is your digestion which is wrong.
It is probably your stomach trying to put part of its work on your
kidneys, and they refuse.
The proper thing is to make your stomach do its share of the
work, which can easily be done by taking Chamberlain’s Tablets
for the stomach and liver.
They cleanse your bowels of all impurities, thus relieving
your kidneys by natural methods which never fail to restore you
to perfect health. For headache, biliousness, indigestion and
constipation there is nothing equal to
CnAMBECLAINSTABU:IS
The Stomach o Livep.
MA
KE P H
y. . K! 21,
< / //y / -
.MtSmm
£l ft
* •
ff
'4f.
..y
y <
u
if
>
SAFE SURFING. SAFE REMEDY FOR PAIN.
SAFE, HARMLESS REMEDY
FOR ALL PAIN.
Kephaldol is sure, quick-acting, and
kills pain without the risk of any harm
to those who use it. Unlike other reme-
dies used for Headache, Neuralgia,
Neuritis, etc., Kephaldol does not affect
or depress the heart action. IT IS SAFE
TO USE in large or small doses. Doctors
by the hundreds have reported it to be
unequalled for the above troubles, as well
as for Rheumatism, Sciatica, Painful
Menstruation and nerve pains generally.
Sold in Tubes hv Chemists and Storekeepers.
Prices 1/6 and 6/6.
If you have a difficulty in obtaining a supply
locally, send a postal note or stamps to the
value ,of tube desired, and it will be sent you
by return post prepaid. Address: (8006 J)
KEPHALDOL CO., 30 Ash Street, Sydney.


20/-
/
*9*
IVMC
25/-
Lady’s Solid Silver
Open-face Keyless
Watch, full jewelled,
accurate, 20 /- Extra
quality, 25/-, 307-
Solid Gold, 50/-, 60/-
18ct. Gold
Ring', set pure
double-cut D i a-
monds, mo.
18ct. Gold
Ring', set 4 Dia-
monds and Red or
Blue Stones, £2.
Oct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls and
Peridot, Amethyst or 'Turquoise,
25/- ' v -
59/-
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless Lever Watch, nonmag-
netic, full jewelled, patent time spring,
compensation balance, 30/- Extra
jewelled, 35/40 / - Gold Cased,
84/-. Solid Gold, £7/10/-
$5/-
loct. Gold Brooch, set pure double-
cut Diamonds, £B/10/-
9et. Gold Links,
richly engraved, 20/-
15ct. Gold, 40/-
18ct. Gold
Ring, set Dia-
monds, £3/10/-
Diamonds and
Rubies or Sap-
phires, £2/10/-
Hi
uv.
Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full jewelled, £4.
Isct. Gold; £7/10/-
9ct. Gold Necklace, set
Aquamarines, Tourmalines or
Peridots, 25/-
15ct. Gold, 40/-
9ct. Gold Sover-
eign Purse, richly
engraved, £2/12/6.
Jewellery Gifts
We have such a delightful selection in our
Catalog and Gift Book. Send for copies.
»
mm
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
9ct. Gold, Half-round Plain Padlock
Bracelet, Safety Chain attached, 40/-
1 5ct. Gold, £3/10/-
v
S
H B
f XI
Gent.’s Military wnsuec Watch, Nickel or
Gunmetal Case, high-grade Lever movement, 20/-,
25/-, 30/-. Silver, 40/-, 50/- 20 years
guaranteed Rolled Gold Case, £3/10/-
15ct. Gold Brooch, set Diamonds
and Rubies, £7/10/-
m
9ct. Gold Links,
any initials engraved,
20/-
15ct. Gold, 40/-
18ct. Gold
Diamond
Cluster
Ring, £lO.
ä
9ct. Gold Pen-
dant, set Garnets
or Amethysts, 22/6.
Oct. Gold
Locket richly
engraved, 25/-
A. SAUNDERS,
807-817 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
25|-
30-
Lady’s Solid Silver
Hunting Keyless
Watch, f-plate, full
jewelled, patent adjusted
balance, 25/- Extra
jewelled, 30/-. 40 /-
Solid Gold, £3/10/-,
£4.
18ct. Gold
Gipsy Ring,
set Diamonds,
£5/10/-
18ct. Gold
Cluster Ring,
• set pure double-cut
Diamonds,
£22/10/-
E»i
9ct. Gold Spray Brooch,
set Pearls and Turquoise, 8/6.
20|-
Gent.’s Nickel Non-mag-
netic Keyless Lever, full
jewelled, patent balance, non-mag-
netic time spring, dust- and water-
proof cases, 20/- Higher grades,
25/-, 30/-. Our Special, 12/6,
15/-
25/-
KEEP
å
COOL
SIEMENS
Electric Fans
You will need a Siemens Fan in the hot days that are coming.
It will keep your home, shop or office cool and comfortable,
•with,a fresh breeze just when and where ydu want it, at a
trifling cost.
Siemens’ Table, Wall and Ceiling Fans are reliable and
economical. Let us send you prices and particulars.
Stereos Bros. Pyoanjo Works Ltd.,
Head Office: London.
Machine <Et Switchgear Works-Stafford, Eng.
Cable (SL Telegraph WorKs—Woolwich, Condon, S.E.
Incandescent Camp WorKs— Dalston, Condon, N.E.
Australian Offices:
59 William St., Melbourne. 42 Bridge St., Sydney.
&
$
An
PHONOGRAPH WILL ADD TO YOUR
HOME HAPPINESS this CHRISTMAS
Christmas, the happiest, jolliest, merriest season -of the year, is the most
appropriate time for you to introduce into your home the world’s finest entertainer
—the Edison Phonograph. There is no present obtainable that would please your
wife and children more; nothing that would give such a diversity of real
entertainment, nothing so pleasing, Christmas in, Christmas out, year after year.
-All ages, tastes and moods are delightfully catered for, while prices are within the
reach of the most limited purse.
FOUR EXTREMELY POPULAR. MODELS
An Excellent Present
for Christmas :: ::
The Edison “Gem” Phonograph. Body Box
of maroon metal on oak base, with oak-carry-
jng cover. Sapphire Point Reproducer, Model
K, metal horn supported by crane. Plays
Standard and New Blue and Wax Records.
Size (without horn), Bin. high, lOin. wide,
8-Jin. deep. £3/10/-.
Edison Amberola X is a concealed horn model
—the latest idea. In a handsome cabinet,
fumed oak finish. Diamond Point Reproducer,
Model B. Powerful Spring Motor, belt drive.
Plays Blue Amberol Records. Size, 13 Jin.
high, 12fin. wide, 151 in. deep (including
concealed horn). Price, £B/10/-.
Edison Fireside Phonograph. Cabinet of
Antique Oak, with carrying cover. Sapphire
Point Reproducer, Model K. Metal Cygnet
horn, supported by crane. Can be wound
while running.
Size (without horn), llin. high, 13|in. wide,
9jin. deep. Price, £7. Same instrument
with metal straight horn, £5/5/-.
'I he Edison Amberola VIII. Cabinet Dull
Golden Oak finish. Diamond Point Repro-
ducer, Model B. Powerful Spring Motor, belt
drive, can be wound while running.
Plays Blue Amberol Records. Size, 151 in.
high, 13Jin. wide, 16|in. deep. Price,
£ll/10/-.
There are Horn Phonographs up to £23, and Phonographs of Concealed Horn
Type—Amberolas—up to £45.
Call on your nearest Edison dealer and ask him to show you the various models.
THOMAS A. EDISON, Ltd. (Wholesale Only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.


If
r.
I
N
?/
(•/
X
&
THIS "I H C' DEVICE
cuts the cost of
RUNNING IN HALF.
WHEREVER and for whatever pur-
pose engine-power was needed
on the farm the introduction of oil-
burning engines came as a “boon and
blessing” to farmers.
It marked the change from the grind-
ing strenuous manual labour to the
easier and more profitable condition of
“letting the “1.H.C.” Engine do the work.”
The greatest improvement in Oil Engines ever made is the oil mixer on all the New Model
“IHC” Engines. In place of gasolene and other costly fuels this mixer enables low grade
kerosene to be satisfactorily used, and thus cuts the cost of fuel in half.
This device gives the “1.H.C.” a tremendous advantage over other makes, which prospective
purchasers cannot afford to ignore.
This great reduction in fuel cost will make the use of “1.H.C.” power well nigh universal
on the farm.
Alreadv more than 5,000 Australian Farmers are using “1.H.C.” Engines, and this number will
soon be doubled because the reduced fuel bill of the “1.H.C.” will make it such a source of
saving to Farmers that every alert man on the land will come to realize theimpossi i ■ yo
his getting out of his farm the profit he is entitled to without the use of the I.H.C. Caso
Kero Engine.
Send for booklet crowded with the satisfactory experiences of hundreds of these owners,
together with illustrated descriptive catalogue, prices, terms etc.
200 Roma St., Brisbane.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO. OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
37 Broadway, Sydney. 545-557 Bourke St.. Melb. 18-20 North Terrace, Adelaide. 361-365 Murray St.. Perth. 75 York St.,L’ton.
—and here’s
a Gift for
the Man
who Shaves
It’s easy to find a suitable gift
for the man who shaves. And
•—it is economical if you bring
your needs to this big-value
store for satisfaction. We sug-
gest for the clean-shaven man
this Christmas —
A SILVER
SHAVING HUG
WITH BRUSH.
It’s a solid-looking mug of
handsome appearance, with a
good capacity for holding hot
water. The Brush is fitted
with soft bristles of good
quality, and fits into a holder
on top of the Mug. Our special
price, posted anywhere,
18|6
Our Xmas
Book will
Help.
If you contemplate buying Gifts
for the coming Glad Season, let
our special Christmas Cata-
logue help you out of your
difficulties. Well illustrated,
well described and plainly
priced, it makes shopping by
post, if anything, more satis-
factory and easier than shopping
over the counter. Get it it s
free.
ā
m
THE'
TREASURE
SAFETY
RAZOR
Now that Shaving is such ati expensive
luxury, proves more economical
than eve, jo purchase a “ Treasure
12/6 Safety Razor. There are 24 extra
blades in each set, with each blade having
two shaving edges. 48 shaves at 6d. would
alone cost £ 1/4/-, while this convenient-
shaving outfit costs you only 12/6. More
over, each shaving edge is good for many
shaves. Quite equal to the usual £l/1/-
Safety Razor. A quick, delightful shave
is always certain.
Bt CO. (aust. ltd.I
Strand Corner,
412 George Street,
SYDNEY.
ă
British —don't forget!
There always has been a wonderful
satisfaction behind the article that is
British manufactured. This J}y no
means applies only to pianos.^it runs
through the whole gamut of manufac-
tured articles. People find some excuse
when they say* for instance* “made in
Germany/ 1 they are apt to explain why
the article ought to be good.
No excuse is wanted for
“BROADWOOD" PIANOS
simply because they are British built.
They are the product of over two
hundred years of experience* and so you
find in “Broadwoods” as you might
expect —true piano tone , perfect balance,
and an easy , definite but sympathetic touch.
Call and see our beautiful models.
CASH OR EASY TERMS.
The British Pianoforte Depot Ltd.*
Temporary Address- ~38 Market Street, Sydney,


Hanking:, Public Companies, &p.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: II MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
Security and Satisfactory
Interest
are the leading features of this Institution.
Deposits received from 1/- upwards.
Interest paid at 31% on first £2OO, and 3%
on excess to £5OO.
The Bank has 130 Branches and over 500
Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices.
DEPOSITS Guaranteed by the Government.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. IT. DAVIDS, Secretary.
THE.
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
ATTTIIORISKD CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £385,000.
Directors: lion. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
Hon. ROBERT PIIILP, M.L.A. ;
ITon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager; J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Heart Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUIII WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian jjank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PATD-ITP (30th June, 1914) . . £1,195,591
RESERVE FUND £45,000
HEAD OFFICE: George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS — Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon,
Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq. ; Frank N.
Yarwood, Esq.; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq.- (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray,
M.L.C. ; .Tames Love, Esq.
General Manager —W. Y. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, 80011*301), Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Commercial Bankincr Co.
o
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up . , .. £ 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. . . 1,730,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 0 0
£5,730,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., and W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. H. Massie.
Heart Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton: N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South-Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of Behi Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares .. . . .. 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
HP 1. . . . 500.000
Uncalled Canital . . «. . . 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,601,608
GRANTS DRAFTS
tain anti Ireland,
on Australia. New
land, Fiji, Great
and other places.
Zea-
Jtri-
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K. 0., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping-.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
ORMONDE
ORAMA
OR Vi ETO
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA .
ORONTES .
OMRAII
. Geared Turbine
• Triple-Screw. .
Twin-Screw ..
15,000 Regd. Tons.
13,000 „
12.130 „
12,129 „
12,124 „
12,077 „
12.036 „
9.023 „
8.282 „
I 'tted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ons Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Pi.ack, Sydnrt.
*The Finest and lirgest steamer trading between
Sydney and San Francisco.
Panama Pacific Exhibition opens at San Francisco
February, 1915.
Around Pacific Tours, returning from Vancouver
by Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line or via
Japan and China.
Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma WhSrf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
’CAIRNS
(’Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).y
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Nov. 28.
PEREGRINE (3500 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Dec. 2.
Leaves Sydney Dec. 5.
CANBERRA (8000 TONS).
Leaves Melbourne Dec. 9.
Leaves Sydney Dec. 12.
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
PEREGRINE (3500 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Nov. 28.
CANBERRA (8000 TONS).
Leaves Sydney Dec. 5.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
UNDER NEUTRAL FLAG
TO
AMERICA and ENGLAND.
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons. Twin Screw Steamers, 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
VENTURA .. j Dec. 19 | Feb. 13 | April 10 I June 5
SONOMA.. ►. j Jan. 16 j Mar. 13 j May 8 | July 3
The San Francisco Panama Exposition is open
February-December, 1915. Tickets issued to London
via San Francisco and back by anv Suez Line.
Tel. 2283 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“ON THE HOP.” —A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
3^-
• w l '
A
m
To PAPDA and PACIFIC ISLES
To Papua.
To Solomon Islands.
To the New Hebrides.
SEND FOR PARTICULARS OF FARES AND SAILINGS TO
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS:
£3,500,000
£2,450,000
£3,500,000
£9,450,000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt.,
President.
Thomas Jiuokland, Esq.
Ricliard llinnie, Esq.
Kobert Lionel Faitlifull, Esq., M.U.
The Hon. Janies T. Walker
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Keqinald J. IHack, M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Alfred George Milson, Esq.; 'William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—Georgre St.. Sydney. London office-29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
340 Branches anti Agencies in the Australian States, New 1 Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD. ,T. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate,.'Enchanting: Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With licr limitless potentialities,' still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a held of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to theJidnest worker
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TUOEDSON, Director,
Hrai.ch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. HESTON, Local Director.
Commonwealth
If. -
Junk* Australia
lIEAU OFFICE
SYDNEY
Open
for all
General Banking Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
in the
principal
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign lolls negotiated and collected,
getters of credit issued to any part o’ the world. Bills negotiated or forwaroed for collection Banking and
Kxcliange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth, United Kingdom and abroad.
Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at
Deposits
■from
1/- to £3OO
2000
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at» o /
per annum <5/ 0
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KF.T.I,, T>epnt.y Governor. DENIS )N MILDER. Governor
DRUIDS’ PATRIOTIC FUND ART UNION
Under the Patronage of the Hon. R. W. RICHARDS, Lord Mayor of Sydney.
TOTAL VALUE OF PRIZES, £lOOO.
FIRST PRIZE, VALUE £BOO. SECOND PRIZE, VALUE £lOO.
NETT PROCEEDS IN AID OF THE LORD MAYOR’S PATRIOTIC FUND.
On receipt of Postal Note, Post Office Order, or Stamps for 1/-, the Secretary will forward Ticket
to any address in Australia.
Do not delay; help those dependent on our soldiers by buying tickets, and have the comforting
satisfaction of knowing that you have contributed to the Patriotic Fund, and assisted a noble cause.
The Art Union will be drawn in Public on SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 13, and results advertised
on 13th, 14th and 15th FEBRUARY.
TICKETS, ONE SHILLING.
FROM ALL AGENTS, OR DIRECT FROM
Head Office: 715 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney. R. A. BARRY, Grand Secretary.
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WARILDA (8000
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
Dec. 19 and Jan. 16,
1915. (Carrying First
and Second Saloon and
Steerage Passengers.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
INNAMINCKA, Nov. 28.
VVOLLOWUA, Dec. 12.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUIEG & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN-AU STRALASI AN R.M.
LINE.
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND.
OPERATING THE LARGEST AND FINEST VESSELS
ACROSS THE PACIFIC FROM AUSTRALIA.
SAILINGS:
*Triple-Screw Steamer, fitted with Cabins de luxe en
suite, Bedstead Rooms, Nursery, Laundry, Electric
Lift, t Twin-Screw Steamer.
Panama Pacific Exhibition opens at San Francisco
February. 1915.
AROUND PACIFIC TOURS, returning from San
Francisco by Union S.S. Co.’s Royal Mail Line or
via Japan and China.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SNIP COMPANY OP N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” ‘‘Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
A.U.S.N.Co.Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” .10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company’s steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlv to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. IVALES and QUEENSLAND' RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwiilumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited,
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£545,634 10 O'
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,476 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 79,500 0 0'
£780,611 0 O
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. =====
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews,
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.


Hotels. Sc.
' EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 16/- per day
AND UPWARDS.
Tlie Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING lIAUU AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
The GRAND HOTEL
WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND.
WELLINGTON’S LEADING HOTEL.
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT.
TARIFF FROM 12/6 PER DAY.
E. L. CHAFFEY, Proprietor.
Business Notices.
IN USING
SALT
you not only Season
but Strengthen all
the Food.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
mam
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts. ■
IN VARIOUS
SHADES—Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn.
Price 3/6, posted
3/11. Directions with
every bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade. Collins St., Melbourne.
gKCA
$
3$
£
£
<
%
Alcock
and
Pierce’s
Fishing Tackle
Is just as good as
«AP” celebrated
Guns & Cartridges
Get Preliminary List now, so as to
get your Tackle into shape ready
for the Season.
This Department is in charge of one of
the most experienced anglers in Victoria,
and any information you want, write to
“ Angling Department,”
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
318 Little Collins St. Melbourne
/
a
k
ewri
ã
ą
KNOWN'THE
WORLD OVER
YOUR beard is not always the same.
That fact gives tremendous import-
ance to the positive adjustment fea-
ture—peculiar to the Gillette Safety
Razor.
No razor without positive adjust-
ment can give uniform service—and
no safety razor has a positive adjustment
except the Gillette.
Any man can use a Gillette Safety F_azor. There is nothing to learn.
No bother with strops and hones. You just lather—and shave.
Gillette Standard Sets, One Guinea. Sold everywhere. Write for
illustrated and descriptive Booklet. Please mention this paper.
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA :
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Gillette
NO STROPPING NO HONING
Safety
%
ǻ
Horlick’s Malted Milk is the most healthful and
the most palatable Food-Drink you can take. Its
ingredients help nature to form new rich blood—and
that means that Horlick’s is a Food-Drink of
incomparable value. Depression, Exhaustion, and
Nervous ailments are conquered by Horlick’s
Malted Milk.
Get Horlick's at the Soda Fountain.
Sample will be sent on receipt of 2d. in stamps by Hutchinson &
Co., 26, Jamieson Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
! K
*
gqi mu*
>?£mi
M u»»
Siv«*r«^2
HOR LICK’S
MALTED MILK
d»n:i:uaza
DINNEFORD’S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
DINNEFORD’S
Magnesia
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective. Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
“AH! THAT’S COMFORTABLE!”
N-
S\S
Such is the exclamation of delight which is uttered by the man who
uses the
“PLUM” RAZOR.
Every shave is a comfortable shave, because the blade of the “Plum”
has a keen cutting edge. No dragging dr tearing, but a clean, easy
shave that leaves the skin as soft as velvet. We know the edge a razor
requires to give the best results. There’s a reason why you should
SEND FOR A “PLUM” —10/6 post free.
We keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a handsome present.
All the Above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITREN
654-
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices in this list are these at which the
various bnol:s are published in London. the
prices in parentheses are those at which tne
books are supplied bp retail booksellers in I ic-
toria. New South Wales and South Austialia.
I‘ostaqe is extra, at the rate of :!d. per pound
within the. Australian Commonwealth.
THE EUROPEAN CRISIS.
82nd THOUSAND.
WHY BRITAIN IS AT WAR. The
Causes and the Issues set out, in
brief form, from the Diplomatic
Correspondence and Speeches, ot
Ministers. By. Sir EDWARD COOK.
Svo. Sewed, 2d.
HOW BRITAIN STROVE FOR
PEACE. By Sir EDWARD COOK.
Svo. Sewed, 2d.
MODERN GERMANY AND THE
MODERN WORLD. By M. E.
SADLER. Svo. Sewed, 2d.
THE MEANING OF THE WAR for
Labor —F r e e d o m —Country. B y
FREDERIC HARRISON. Svo.
Sewed, Id.
THE WAR IN EUROPE —Origins
(1) in Austro-Hungarian Politics:
(21 in the Aims of Modern Germany
The Critical Fortnight —-Ultimate
Issues. Svo. Sewed, 3d. (Reprinted
from The Round Table.)
GERMANY AND THE PRUSSIAN
SPIRIT —German Idealism—-I h e
Prussian Autocracy —The Strong
Wine of Victory—Bismarck’s Legacy
—Bureaucracy and Militarism—-1 he
Religion of War—l9l4. Svo. Sewed,
Gd. (Reprinted from The Round
Table. )
THE COUNTRY’S CALL. A Short
Selection of Patriotic Verse. Chosen
and Edited by E. B. and MARIE
SARGANT. Svo. Sewed, 2d.
THE WILDS OF MAORILAND.
By JAMES MACKINTOSH BELL,
M.A., Ph.D., with 8 plates m color,
many other illustrations in black and
white, and several maps. Demy Svo.
15s. .
THE NATIVE TRIBES OF THE
NORTHERN TERRITORY Ob
AUSTRALIA. By W. BALDWIN
SPENCER, C.M.G., F.R.S., Professor
of Biology, University of Melbourne.
With S colored plates and numerous
illustrations. Svo. 21s. net. (255.)
THE BISHOP OF BALLARAT.
AUSTRALIAN SERMONS. Preached
to Country Congregations^by
ARTHUR VINCENT GREEN,
M.A. (Melb.), LL.D. (Byd.), Bishop
of Ballarat. Crown Svo. 3s. bd. net.
(4s. Gd.) -
TEPHEN GRAHAM’S NEW BOOK.
pith poor immigrants to
AMERICA. By ST BP HBN
GRAHAM, Author of With the
Russian Pilgrims to Jerusalem.
Illustrated. Svo. Bs.6d.net. (10s.)
Pald Mall Gazette: “Mr. Graham has
■avelled too widely about the earth to he con-
mt with superficial signs, and in watchin„
le absorption of the Slav into the new. world
e has touched one of the most fascinatim,
rocesses we know....He has certainly in -
retod Russia to us as few other authors have
[one, except her own classics.
RABINDRANATH TAGORE.
THE POST OFFICE. (A Play.)
By RABINDRANATH TAGORE.
Translated by Devabrata Mukerjea.
Crown Svo. 2s. Gd. net, (os.)
NOW COMPLETE IN 5 VOLS.
A CYCLOPEDIA OF EDUCATION.
Edited by PAUL MONROE, Ph D
With the assistance of Departmental
Editors, and several hundred Indi-
vidual Contributors. Illustrated.
y ol .' I, A—Chu. Vol. 11, Chu-Fus.
Vol. 111, Gai—Lib. Volt IV. Lib—
Pol. Vol. V, Pol—Zwi. 21s. net.
(255. each.)
The Guardian: “To teachers and all con-
cerned with educational matters the Gyolo-
ivedia op Education can be highly recom-
mended for purposes of reference. It has the
great merit of being strictly impartial, and
the general accuracy of the articles upon
European movements and institutions may be
relied upon.”
MACMILLAN'S EMPIRE LIBRARY.
Paper Covers, 2/6; Cloth, 3/6 per
Volume.
H. G. WELLS’ New Long Novel.
640 THE WIFE OF S® ISAAC
HARMAN. By H. G. WELLS,
Author of “Marriage,” etc.
Mr. Wells’ new book is a long novel of
modern life, which deals with various, aspects
of the feminist .movement, and especially in
relation to marriage. The heroine of the story,
Lady Harman, is a most charming character.
641 THE DEMI-GODS. By JAMES
STEPHENS, Author of “The Crock
of- Gold,” etc.
642 INCREDIBLE ADVENTURES.
Five Stories by ALGERNON
BLACKWOOD, Author of “A Pris-
oner in Fairyland,” etc.
643 THE GAME OF LIFE AND
DEATH. By LINCOLN COLCORD.
644 THE RISE OF JENNIE
CUSHING. By MARY S. WATTS,
Author of “Nathan Burke, Van
Cleve,” etc.
645 THE WAYS OF MISS BAR-
BARA. By AGNES and EGERTON
CASTLE, Authors of ’‘Rose' of the
World,” etc.
A Complete Catalogue of Macmillan's Empire
Library will be sent on application.
M ACMILLANSGO. LTlk
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


ijl)
æ
B 3
ǽ
TIPS FOR CHRISTMAS.
81-Cigarette Holder, with quills attached, 15/- each.
B2— Tobacco Pouch, real antelope, silver shield, 6/-, 7/-, 7/6 each
Gold-mounted, 12/6, 13/6, 15/- each.
B3— Tobacco Boxes in Solid Silver, 25'-, 30/- Silver-plated, 7/6,10/-
B 4 —Cigarette Holder, real mother of pearl. 17/6 each.
Bs—Solid Silver Match Boxes, from 6/- to 15/-
B6—Sterling Silver Cigarette Cases, 25/- each.
B7— Cigar Cases, from 5/- each.
88- Cigarette Cases, in Morocco, Seal, Crocodile, Puma, Beaver,
from 3/6 to 17/6.
BO — Wallet Pouches, 3/6 up to 12/6 each
BlO— Combination Cigarette Case and Lighter, in plain nickel, a
novel present for gentleman, 10/6 each.
«, FINNEY'S, BRISBANE.
V
/
BS
T.fTi
119
Blu
Mr. W. E. Thomas, the eminent dentist of 88
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, whose work is well
known all over Australia, is constantly surprising - us
with new dental discoveries. He now announces, as
new features, unbreakable plates which a hammer-
stroke will not smash, and interchangeable teeth,
which permit discolored teeth to be replaced or new
sizes fitted in a few moipepts. Mr.. Thomas, as proof
that his new artificial teeth were the most natural
and best-fitting in the world, made a guarantee of
£2OOO, and placed the money with the Common-
wealth Bank, Melbourne.*
PILES.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF.
LEMOLAC FOR PILES stops all irrita-
tion at once. Reduces Swelling'.
„ . . Cures. NOT ONE FAILURE. Money
Back if not effective. 3/6 at all Chemists, or post free from
THE LEMOLAC CO., 178 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
DUPLEX
ä
FOR
MEN
■ . OF
ACTION
IN BANANA LAND
THE FLYING VETERAN.
PROUD GERMAN MOTHER : “Jo,, dot is mine prave Karl. He took fart in 14 retreats.”
“Rule Nisi” : The High Court has given
an important decision on the vexed
point of res Judicata, meaning “that
egg has been sat upon.” A country post-
mistress was found short of £144. The
P.M.G. accused her of fraudulent conver-
sion, on which charge she was acquitted.
The Government then instituted civil pro-
ceedings to recover the shortage as a debt
due. Defendant took the res Judicata
plea, and the Court below allowed it. But
the High Court, on being appealed to,
unanimously disallowed it, reasoning that
the acquittal of the jury was no determina-
tion that the postmistress didn’t receive the
money, but merely an opinion that she
didn’t steal it. Therefore the Crown, hav-
ing a fixed idea that she had received it,
had a perfect right to sue for its return.
Fraudulent intent must be proved before
conviction on a charge of embezzlement or
conversion of money, and intent cannot
always be clearly shown. In fact, it
doesn’t always exist. Hundreds of men
have been short in their cash without being
criminals. For its latest decision the High
Court therefore seems entitled to still another
round cf applause.
The Brisbane Courier is cultivating a
suggestion that all Australian patriots
should wear buttons or badges bearing the
legend M.I.E. (“Made in the Empire ) in
token of their pledge not to buy alien-made
goods. “Made in the Empire” is much bet-
ter than “Made outside the Empire,” but
the cheap labor of old-established English
factories can kill Australian industries just
as dead as the cheap labor of any other
foreign factories. In the circumstances, if
“M.1.E.” is worn, it will simply stand for
Australia’s plaintive appeal: “Must I
Expire?”
Again that Northern climate! _ Says
Health Commissioner Moore: “Within 100
miles of Cairns the October climate was
more like October in the Old Country, especi-
ally in the Atherton and Ilerberton dis-
tricts, where cold days and colder nights
necessitated the use not only of a blanket
but also of an eiderdown quilt.” Dr. Moore
wants to know why North Queenslanders
take sea-trips south when they have bracing
heights, attainable by rail, at their back
door.
The British Government remarks that it
has now 2,000,000 men under arms, and
that it hopes to have 3,000,000 very shortly.
If Australia carried a corresponding share
of the burden it would find 200,000 or
300,000 soldiers. Also Britain proposes to
raise £450,000,000 locally in the first year
of the war, for the inevitable butchery fund.
If Australia did things on the same gigantic
scale it would raise about £45,000,000 locally
for war charges. And Britain doesn’t pro-
pose to borrow any money abroad for public
works’ expenditure, while this great, rich
country is asking Bull to back its bill for
£18,000,000. Tlie war problem hasn’t com-
menced here yet. In fact, the country is so
merry and bright that a strike lately started
at the Federal dock in Sydney over the ques-
tion whether the pay should be double time
for night work, or only time and seven-
eights, as-provided in the award. So the
defence arrangements were hung up.
Shortly after the war started France sent
across to John Bull and asked him if he
could recommend somebody to buy all the
heef its army required. John replied that
lie would look around, and after he had
done that he asked Queensland Agent-
General Robinson if he would take on the
big responsibility. In the circumstances the
Bananalander said he would struggle with
it; and apparently he is struggling with it,
and making casual bargains running into
hundred of thousands, to the harassed ally’s
perfect satisfaction.
Bananaland is probably the only State in
Australia where departmental heads tumble
into print to defend themselves from the
criticisms of the Auditor-General. This
official m his last blistering report referred to
the Railway Department’s purchase of the
foreign-made McKeen auto-cars and the
Renard road train as costly experiments.
I agan, Acting-Commissioner for Railways
thereupon poured himself into the Courier
man endeavor to defend the purchase. He
declared that at least two of the five auto-
cars were working economically. In that
case why, in reply to a question, was the
Assembly lately told that the mechanical
engineer’s department reported that the
McKeen auto-cars were a failure, the cost
ot petrol alone being Is. 6d. per mile for
each car. (This with petrol at Is. Sd. per
gallon, and not at war prices.) Either the
administrative department of the railways,
the mechanical department or the Auditor-
General is coquetting with the truth.
The Moon Chosen.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They laughed.
“Mateless he goes. ... Saint (of necessity)
With sallow cheek and long, unequal arms,
And men can see the craving in his eyes.”
And so they laughed, in pride of brawn and
bone—•
Laughed, with their smooth-limbed girls, and
left me there,
Plaiting the grasses on a scorched hillside.
I laughed.
For I was waiting for the midnight moon—
That pale-faced woman whom men think so
cold,
But who is white as the white heart of
flame —•
As the white fire of love that sanctifies —
As the soft warmth of lilies that are blown
In tlie blue lake, the favored of the sun—
I laughed at man who felt the moonlight
cold !
I was a twisted shape from very birth.
Fate seared me with its finger in the womb.
But the frail creature, who held me below
The satin hillocks of her swelling breasts —
She a thing smirchhd in the eyes of men—
Bequeathed to me a soul they did not see.
Perchance my father was some god who
came,
Tired of the jealous loves of goddesses,
To dally for a space with human hearts.
Perchance he found her on a bare hilltop
Soaked through and through with moon-
beams like a bath.
Perchance he drew her to him, as she wept,
The strange brutalities of lustful men.
Perchance he lit my life, but could not give
The great perfection of his shapely form,
So balanced this with overmuch of dream,
And plus of soul. However it may be
My mother bore me with a certain pride,
And from that day men handled her no more.
Oh ! I was born upon a moonlit night
When in the silver palenesses of fields
A bird sang till it sank of ceaseless song;
And men said never had there been such
light
As the white lady gave my opening eyes.
To-night when she shall rise above the pines
Whose clouded boughs keep music for me
still,
When she shall soar beyond the mountain
coign
To make a thousand mirrors of the sea,
She sends a stairway to my feet, and I,
Unwa'tched by those who 101 l behind the
blinds
Of some close boudoir, over-sick with scent.
Shall mount and mount, until I find her
arms.
Over the wooded slopes we go—not high,
But that we breathe a whiff of eartliborn
flowers,
The sunleft sweetnesses of sleepy weeds,
The closing lilies on the shining lake.
And not so high but that we hear at times
Lovers in earth wastes making deathless
vows,
And smile half-sadly that such sun-swung
motes
Know nothing reallv of a deathless love.. . .
Their love is but for breasts made of the
dust,
And cling of limbs the greedy worm shall
claim,
The earthly yearnings for an earthly mate.
I know a valley that is steeped in light.
A long, low place, shut in by granite hills
And carpeted with stretch of unseen flowers
Where lurk the kisses that men never find,
But those they dream of in their innocence,
And all the passion that earth cannot
change—
The purity that mocks satiety,
The Something that we nearly grasp on
earth
Between the warm fulfilment, and the slack
Of fed desire. The prize we seek to find,
That like a jack-o’-lantern in the swamp
Dances for ever on the steely rim
Of those horizons men shall never reach,
Because their feet are rooted in the soil,
And if they mount they die in upper air.
But I was born a crooked, hopeless thing,
And no maid looked at me with amorous
eyes,
No luscious matron offered contraband,
And men laugh, gibing at me as no man,
And never guess the laugh is all with me
Chosen of my white consort of the skies.
I hear them boast: “Last night I found a
rose,
A red. sweet bloom, with petals tremulous.
And, like a bee, with hungry lips I lay
And sucked the honey from its crimson heart.
And when the morning came I tired....and
so
The rose is there....if any care to take
A thing I bruised last night. It still is red;
The scent is lost? Perhaps a trifle 50....
The easier for your winning. Thorns are
clipped,
A rose,, once bruised may well be thornless
now.”
And as I hear I think, that Dawn and
Dawn,
And Night and Night, may follow, silver-
shod, ,
But never in that valley of my dreams
Will my white rose be less because of me.
Dew-waslied and perfumed. For the love of
souls
Can never rob a blossom of its scent;
Can never leave a stain the rose must hide
By binding o’er the petal with a thorn.
They laughed:
“Mateless he goes.” But I laughed most.
I saw behind their wanton’s flesh the skull;
I saw beneath the bared, amazing breasts,
The little bones, the hollow, ashen heart
Where coils the adder of a spent desire.
I looked
High, in the noonday rest of golden skies,
As delicate as spider spinning, hung
The pale remembrance of the midnight moon.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, November 21,1914.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
The G.-G. and his better half have been
gadding around all this week, incidentally
inspecting hospitals, and criticising with a
favorable eye the troops at Enoggera.
The Red Gross rooms drew Lady Helen
into the vortex of their energv on Thursday,
and she unloaded some complimentary re-
marks on the amount of work done. On
Friday she turned up at a “patriotic.” after-
noon at Nundah.
To-day, in heat : wave conditions, Austra-
lia’s No. 1 Governor gave his personal
encouragement to a Methodist missionary
revel. He seemed to enjoy it in a kind of
way; but then it was only a kind of revel.
Three Society weddings are booked for
next week. Leslie Harris and Arthur Bul-
livant (of Victoria) are the adventurous
spirits in one event. Mrs. Witherby, of
Sydney, who is an aunt of the bride-to-be, is
in Brisbane at present, lending her experi-
enced advice to the family caucus.
Harold Taylor, younger son of W. F.
Taylor, a popular medical man, has been
given a commission in a Scottish regiment.
He was at Pennsylvania (U.S.) when the
cocksure Prussians stood on the Belgian
anthill threatening the wide world. Imme-
diatelv he wired to some old pals at Edin-
burgh that it was his intention to return and
see what kind of animal was making all the
noise. Young Taylor had belonged to a
university corps in Edinburgh, and the train-
ing he had received therein gave him the
chance to go and make his zoological investi-
gations under the most favorable conditions.
Maud Allan and the Cherniavslcy boys
made their first appearance to-night, to a
reasonably-full house. Maud’s dances in
the first half were mostly of the youthful,
early-pearly morning type, which, by con-
trast, made the Salome dance rather more
startling than it might otherwise have been.
Mayor Jenkinson is preparing a reception
for Miss Allan and the three musicians on
Monday. It is understood that nothing
hostile is intended.
Lena Hammond’s students gave a concert
to-night, and this afternoon Miss Porter’s
students gave another, in aid of the Belgians.
Mayor and Mayoress Allen, of South Bris-
bane, were amongst the interested audience.
The St. Kilda Nurses’ Home was opened
on Wednesday, and Mrs. Cruise entertained
about 100 women at a tea-drinking bout in
honor of the event, and in furtherance of the
nursing industry.
Same day the Y.W.C.A. had another tea-
party, and handed a copy of the Bible to
as many nurses of the Australian General
Hosp. as called for them. It was a solemn
and affecting ceremony, though a reflection
on the nurses’ present literary possessions.
W. H. Rudd, of the Walter Reid firm,
came back with wife and daughter from a
world wander the other day. Papa Rudd
brings one good war item. Everybody, of
course, knows that gun-runners landed thou-
sands of rifles in Ireland during the Ulster
trouble. But everybody doesn’t know,
though Mr. Rudd says it’s true, that those
50s. rifles were landed in Ireland from good,
kind Germany for 3s. 6d. each. Now, alas!
they. are being used to make a commotion
not in Ireland, but-in the north of France!
Gladys Moncrieff, the Bundaberg girl who
is threatened with a successful career as a
soprano, has been trained by Mrs. Hugh
Ward for the last 18 months. There is a
good deal of music in the girl’s family
locker. Her .father, Reginald Moncrieff, was
well known id Sydney as a pianist, though
he has not appeared in public for some years.
Gladys’s mother was the Ada Lambell who
sang in the first Pollard company. The
young soprano is relieving officer for Ruth
Lincoln, of the Gilbert and Sullivan Co.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTBALIA JANE.
The Rockhampton Gas and Coke Co., hav-
ing been given plenty of time to get out of
the financial mess it fell into a few years
ago, the local council now talks about taking
ovQjvthe ye.ry fair gas service and the very
poof electric light. Eight years ago the
council might have got the whole outfit for
very little; now, having rescued the concern,
the. public (whose money did the job) is
invited to pay for its own outlay. Treasurer
Barnes has been asked to help; but there
being no money to spend on buying out the
nice, kind capitalist just now, “the Bishop”
sent the deputation away with merely his
blessing.
Brisbane possesses a certain class of
“lady” who frequents the galleries of the
Supreme Court when any double-bed evidence
is likely to be on tap. During the sittings a
few days back some extra-curried stuff was
tickling the ears of several such well-dressed
wowserettes when their gasps of delight
caught the ear of the Judge, who requested
them to retire. But they knew the law and
refused. A second request also met a re-
fusal, and the Judge shrugged his shoulders
and carried on. A P.M. could have cleared
the court, but a Judge has no such power.
There is nothing, though, to prevent him
pasting a notice prominently in the gallery
to this effect: “Reserved for the morally
tainted.”


Pure Drinks
To Suit all Tastes
Merry Cop
Kia Ora
Squash
Dixon’s Beer
*
Deep Spring
Sangvita
O.T.
Summerade
O.T. COY’S
Pore Cordials
A combination of Healthful and
Delicious Fruit Juices and Sweet-
ness— Refreshing, Satisfying and
Beneficial to yourg and old.
The Juice of choicest Lemons and
Sugar. Recommended with utmost
confidence for use in hot weather
when Lemon Juice is so cooling
and refreshing. No other Squash
can compare with Kia-Ora. Cools
the blood, pleases the palate, and
promotes the health of the entire
system.
Thirst-quenching, Delicious, Cool-
ing and Appetising—equal to the
best Beer made — BUT it does not
contain Alcohol. Pint and y / 2 pint
bottles.
Famous Daylesford Mineral
Water. Remarkable for health
giving qualities. Contains Magnesia
corrective for stomach; Iron for
toning nerves and making rich red
blood that prcduces perfect health
in mind and body. Lithia, the sol-
vent for Uric Acid. The best anti-
gout and anti-rheumatism drink
obtainable. Perfect, Alone, or with
Milk, Lemon, Raspberry', 0.T.,
Wh.sky or Gin.
Tonic Blood Purifier, contains
valuable constituents of health
giving Herbs.
The World-famed Success. Yearly
sales equal over 100 mill.on drinks.
Add a little to all drinks.
The New Lemonade
—A Real Refresher, Fruity, De-
licious, Cooling, Quenching. It
relieves thirst without creating
more.
Raspberry, Vanilla,
Lime Juice, Lemon Syrup, Cloves,
Sarsaparilla, Peppermint, Green
Ginger, etc.
Obtainable at leading CLUBS, SHOPS,
HOTELS, STORES, REFRESHMENT
BARS, CAFES, etc.
Should your Trader be without Stock ask
him to obtain for you the lines you require.
If ycur older remains unfilled please advise
O.T. Ltd.
O.T. Untiled
Pure Drink Manufacturers,
SYDNEY MELBOURNE - LONDCH
Traders Note.— We have Large Stocks of Ingredients; own our own Bcttle Works;
have Two Large Factories equipped with the most Modern Machinery, and are
thus specially favored to cope with this Season’s Trade. Country Trade supplied
at F.O.R. Prices. Write for Price Lists.


w
<■<!
ra vmmm Lamp
\r
British
B
PH
Made
MAZDA
Are the Lamps You
Use British Made?
Mazda Lamps were the first lamps to be made with a con-
tinuous filament of drawn tungsten wire. They are made in
Rugby (England), and their manufacture gives employment
to thousands of
British workers.
It is not for
patriotic reasons,
however, that you
should use Mazda
Lamps, hut be-
cause of their
unsurpassed
qualities of bril-
liancy, strength
and efficiency.
OUR PRICES
have not been
altered.
i
1
B.l
MAZDA DRAWN
WIRE LAMPS
have solved the
problem of fra-
gility & reduced
the cost of elec-
tric lighting so as
to bring it within
the reach of
everybody. B e
sure and get
“MAZDA,” the
“Brit ish-made”
Lamp.
Australian General Electric Co
MAZDA HOUSE,
Cr. Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Stmt, SYDNEY.
Cr. Queen and Little Collins Streets, MELBOURNE.
British
B
T-H
Made
MAZDA
AGENTS—
PERTH (W.A.): Chas, Atkins & Co. (W.A.),
Ltd., Hay Street.
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co.
of Aust., Ltd. (E.S.C.A.), Edward Street.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone
Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: National Electrical & Engin-
eering Co. Ltd., Dunedin, Auckland,
Wellington & Christchurch.
MUSICALIGOMEDYi
It /////////// /////////
■'ll
m
V
/A (0
W"
///.
'S.
Master* Voice
MADE IN
ENGLAND.
His Master’s Voice Records of
“THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE”
This Popular Gilbert and Sullivan opera goes with a sparkle from start to
misli. lhe music is bright and dashing—the sentiment quite appropriate
to a merry band of pirates so delightfully depicted by the famous musical-
comedy composers.
J * ire Tr°? T euza , nce ” records—they are true-to-original, as are
all “His Master’s Voice” productions. 6 ’
SULLIVAN OPERATIC PARTY.
10-INCH RECORDS. 4/3.
4135 With Cat-like Tread.
4434 Pour, O King, the Pirate Sherry.
3-2846 When a Poenian Hares His Steel.
4463 I Am the Y'ery Pattern.
COLDSTREAM GUARDS BAND (now fighting for the Empire).
12-INCH DOUBEE-SIDED RECORD, 6/6.
C. 134 “Pirates of Penzance” Selection.
“lolanthe” Selection.
“ITis Masters Voice” Instruments and Records are “ALL BRITISH.”
Instiument Catalogue, Record Lists and name of nearest accredited dealer
on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD., 163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Ams No. 98AT.
Double Seamer.
nr
The Seal
of Safety.
Ams Automatic
Double Seamers.
The Trade Standard.
Progressive Seamers for
Progressive Canners.
Make Your Cans with Ams Machinery
We furnish machines for
ing tin cans of every descrip-
tion, for Sardines, Peas, Fruit,
all Food Products, Spices, Teas,
Coffee, Tobacco, Paint and Oil
Cans.
These machines are automatic throughout, and are fitted with Cover
Feed, Can Straightener and Plunger, and make a very complete and service-
able Double Seamer. They are rigid in construction, complete lubricating
system, ease and convenience in operating, plenty of speed, and will do the
work cut out for them. The can stands still during the seaming operation
and boy or girl can run these double seamers.
Takes all standard sizes including No. 3’s. Out-
put over 50 per minute. The 988 for gallon cans
from 40 per minute. We are specialists in this
line. It is not a side issue.
We build complete can-making equipments.
Write to us about your intentions. We are in
business to answer questions. Experiment if you
like, but come to Ams for standard.
Send us a sample of what you want to make.
CORRESPONDENCE AND ESTIMATES IN EVERY
LANGUAGE.
MAX AMS MACHINE COMPANY,
MOUNT VERNON, N.Y., U.S.A,
CHARLES M. AMS, President.
Address us direct or through any EXPORT
COMMISSION HOUSE.
law
o^erf
eat*.


NO INCREASE
ii;n—imimmib' f—■ wtaawa
IN PRICES of
MICHEXIN
TYRES
Uninterrupted Supplies
during' tbe War obtainable
from all beading' Ag'ents.
“ON THE HOP!”
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing 1 upwards of Three
hundred of "Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
a
PERFECT
ABBEY SHOES are PERFECT
in all the essentials of good dress
and good form.
The illustration shows a Choice
Patent Button Boot, dull Calf Begs,
price 27/6
In High-grade Glace Kid.. 257-
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage 9d. Extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
à
"ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ABAUIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive y*u. Look for the signa
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia
ICE-
MAKE YOUR
The A.S. Machines represent the latest development in
small refrigerating plants. They are completely self-
contained and enclosed, and can be used for cold storage
chambers, for milk cooling and other dairy purposes,
for* making block ice for household use, and for
many special purposes.
The outstanding features of these machines are simplicity
and reliability. They are rotary machines without
gauges, stop-cocks, valves, packings, glands or any
internal parts subject to wear. They never require
recharging with chemicals, and beyond stopping and
starting, and occasional inspection of the two lubricators,
absolutely no other attention is required.
NO DANGER OF EXPLOSION
APSOLUTE RELIABILITY
NO LEAKAGE OF GAS
MAXIMUM ECONOMY
MODERATE IN PRICE
REMOVING A BLOCK OF ICE FROM THE MACHINE.
Only a few left in Stock: order NOW for this Summer.
Representatives for New South Wales and Queensland:
HAES & EGGERS LIMITED,
163 Clarence Street
SYDNEY.


your teeth should look
better than they do
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F.C. Calvert &• Co. , Mar-chester, Eng.
CHRISTMAS BARGAIN PARCELS
Bigger Bargains than Ever Before
EVERYTHING MUCH LESS THAN HALF PRICE
Something Suitable for Everybody
1 We pay all Cost of Carriage to any Address
I HOUSEHOLD BARGAIN PARCEL.—A Handsome Alumi-
iniuro Pickle Pick, a patent pickle fork, untarnishable;
Fruit and Vegetable Slicer, Corer 4 Fish Scaler,
á
and Potato Chipper; LuxoD
Midget Lamp, burns one penny-i
9% In Art
[worth of Kerosene in 80 hours ; Needle Book, with a fine
lot of needles of all sizes, sewing, darning and embroidery;
a Perfect Needle Threader, for hand or machine needles;
(a Dust-Eating Duster,picks up and holds all dust; a handy
I steel Pot Scraper; a Spiralette Fly-Catcher; and a Broom
Handle Fixer. Usual price 5/8, ali for 2/0i
LADIES’ BARGAIN PARCEL. —A Beautiful
Sicilian. Shell Collar, very graceful and
pretty; "a Perfumed Hat-Pin, handsome
design;. Hat-Pin Protector; a perfumed
Amulet Pendant, solid perfumes, very nice,
delightfully scented; 2 Butterfly Clip
1 Brooches; a pair of Folding Scissors; a
' Fortune-Telling Chart and a Bo6k about
â
Home dogs, birds. Usual price 7/1, alB for 2/6■]
CHILDREN’S BARGAIN PARCELS Jumping Kangaroos, a]
m
&
[Canary Warbler, a Blow-Ball Toy, c
Big Butterfly that will really fly, a
Self-Spinning Top, a Kazoo Trumpet,
Transforming Flower, Water Expand-
ing Flower, Giant Revolving Flower,
a Lead Pencil and a Pencil Sharpener.
flies
/It
fUes
ITUsual price 5/2, all for 2/6.
| BARGAIN BUNCH OF WONDERS.—The Tango Dancers,
• .
Fits over
Too of
\BoOt
the Magic Pocket Book, the
Floating Coin Trick, the Sore
Toe Joke, the Flexible Key
Ring Puzzle, the. Joker Beetle
Scarf Pin, the Lovers’ Link;,
ithe Trick Dagger and a big
(book of YVonderful Puzzles.
Usual price 6/9, all for 2/6-
Full explanation and directions sent with every, parcel.
No alteration can be made in anvof the parcels.
Now for the FREE GIFTS,
i With every order for Two Parcels, a Handsome Photo Fain,
to hold-five Cabinet photos! will be given free.
With every order for. three Parcels a Set of Embroidery
Transfer Patterns will be given fi'ce. i
When all Four Parcels are ordered a
Fine Compendium of Six Table Games
(usual price 2/3) will be given free
RsJnetnber, we pay carriage.
S5y?
Digger Bargains than ever before,
tomers. Yon should order early to save disappointment.
Last Christmas the orders poured in long after the Holidays.
If you cannot make up your mind, send for a Descriptive
Circular of the contents of all the parcels.
_ The, UNION COMPANY. 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
T"V URING the Summer a most pleasant,
refreshing, invigorating Tonic Bever-
age may be made by adding a few drops of
Phos to a glass of cold water. Though
Phos is, primarily, a children’s tonic, yet
weary adults should always keep a bottle
handy. Get it now, and don’t be without
it when the hot, fatiguing days come round.
Sold in shilling bottles. If not obtainable
locally, send 1/3 in stamps to the proprie-
tors,
ROCKE, TGMPSITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
miiß
■
SYDNEY: John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE :Briscoe&Co., Ltd,, Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE: Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH: McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
BI it CII <s cAItItO Ij !•
(Qiieen-slaiid).
THEATRICAL, AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
Tricks, Puzzles, Jokes, Novelties.
Write for New Catalogue
.—Post Free.
å
THE PHANTOM CARD TRICK.
Five cards are shown. Anyone
mentally selects three. The five
cards are now dropped in a hat. Per-
former picks out the two cards not
selected. Someone puts hand in hat
to bring out the three selected cards,
vN ts
JOKER’S SNAKE CAMERAS.
An imitation of a camera, from which a large snake springs out.
Post free, 1/3. Larger sizes. 2 /- and 3/6, post free.
WIRE PUZZLES-All Kinds.
Six different Puzzles for 2/-, post free, or
12, kll different, for 3/6, post free.
but they have vanished, the hat being quite
empty. Very bewildering and easy to work.
Post free, with full instructions, Bd.
Handkerchief can be used instead of hat, if
desired. We can supply a set of 6 different
card tricks, in addition to the above, for
3/3, post free.
Our Speciality-THE JOKER’S NOVELTY PACKET,
containing
“Thp Joker’s Plate Lifter.”
‘‘The Joker’s Love Bond.”
“Th 6 Joker’s Squirt Camera.”
‘‘The Joker’s Electric Push Button.”
These Four Cood Jokes for 2/6! post free.
Our New Catalogue , which is Post Free , is a Novelty in Itself.
H. L. HUTCHINSON LTD.—New York Novelty Co.
708-710 GEORGE STREET, HAY MARKET, SYDNEY
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office, Sydney.
WE SPECIALISE IN ALL KINDS OF TOYS.
ARE YOU DEAF?
( BanjhiiD
EARPHONE
GIVES PERFECT HEARING
The object of the Danjhill
Earphone is to enable
deaf people to hear.
By simply wearing a Dan.jhill Earphone a deaf person can sit -in a room and hear
all the conversation with perfect ease. It collects sounds from all directions without-
losing any of their strength.
It transmits the voice clearly, and can be used in a Public Hall, Theatre or Church.
For years past Jerdans Ltd. have been successfully attending to the eye
troubles of the public.
If your eyes fail you naturally take to spectacles.
Why not let us treat your ears with the Danjhill Earphone? The result
will be perfect.
sole: agents*
JERDAN’S LTD.,
My Opticians, 393 George Street, Sydney.
4
SYLO
Ice made by this machine.
“HAND ICE
MACHINE”
Makes 2 lbs. of
Hard Ice in any
Climate in 15
* minutes.
Guaranteed by us,
the Australasian Agents.
Agents wanted in other
States and Towns.
Write for particulars.
THE PLANT.
Price - - £l2/10/-
ELLIOTT, DONALDSON & DOUGLAS LTD
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
In replying to the Advertisement, please mention this paper.
20% DISCOUNT OFF
STERLING SILVER.
Our experiment of a couple of years ago
of taking the wholesale catalogues of the
great English manufacturers of electro-
silver and solid silver goods and deduct-
ing 20%, or 4/- in the £, from their
prices was of a revolutionary character,
and might have landed us in heavy loss.
Bllt IT DID NOT,
owing to our great output; and so we
are continuing the discount. It only
gives a bare commission on many lines,
but commissions count if numerous enough.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 & 25 HUNTER. .STREET.
PLAIN FIGUKESrr-STRICTDY CASH. ....
\
p
Very Heavy Stalling Silver Manicure Set, as illus-
trated .. ••• 42/-
Less 20% discount 8/-
34/-
Amusement**.
Harry ltickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
Twice Daily, at 2.30 and 8.
Twice Daily, at 2.30 and 8.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
THE TIVOLI FOLLIES.
ISABELLE D’ARMOND. JACK CANNOT.
MONTE WOLFF. AL HERMAN.
ANNA HANNA. GEO. HALL.
HELEN LEACH. WALLIN TRIO.
MDLLE. DAVENPORT. VAUDE & VERNE.
Box Plan at Theatre and Nicholson’s.
’Phone 9942 for Reserves.
"J"IVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
J. W. RICKABY.
MOONEY & HOLBEIN. ALFREDO.
ALVARETTO, REGGO & STOPPITT.
NOBLE & BROOKS. AERIAL LESTERS.
GILBERT & ERICSON. ROBERTS & LESTER.
GEORGE WHITEHEAD.
Box Plan at Glen’s. PRICES: 4/-, 3/-. 2/-, 1 /-.
HE It M A JBSTY’S, S Y I) N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN COMIC OPERA.
Last Two Nights of THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE
and TRIAL BY JURY.
SATURDAY NEXT, AT 8.
H.M.S. PINAFORE.
SUPERB AUSTRALIAN CHORUS.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
A L A C E THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction ALLEN DOONE.
Last Two Nights of THE BOLD SOJER BOY.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 28.
ALLEN DOONE
and his popular Company in the popular Irish Drama,
A ROMANCE IN IRELAND.
Prices: 4/-, 2/6, 1/-. Early Door Gallery and Stalls,
6d. extra. Early Door Gallery, Saturdays and Holidays,
1/- extra. Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
CRITERION TIIEA T It e”SYDNEY.
Lessee FRANK MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
FRED NIBLO & JOSEPHINE COHAN
And J. C. Williamson’s Popular Comedy Players,
in George M. Cohan’s Mystery Farce,
SEVEN KEYS TO BALDPATE,
Founded on the Story by Earl Derr Biggers.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
Ad elr n i t" ii re at it re. syiin ey.
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY. LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF CAMILLE.
SATURDAY NEXT,
George Willoughby’s New Dramatic Company in
Frank M. Thorne’s successful emotional Drama,
THE WOMAN PAYS.
Prices of Admission: —Week Nights: Front Stalls,
21-; Dress Circle. 1/6; Back Stalls, 1/-; Gallery,
fid. Saturday Night: 3/-. 2/- and 1/-.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
The picture block theatres.
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Baiuiington Miller, General Manager.
HE KING’S THEATRE. MELBOIi KNE.
Sole Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of Australia’s Favorite,
MISS NELLIE STEWART,
in
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY.
Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plans at Allan's.
Elt .MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
in
THIS GIRL IN THE TAXL
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 65., 45., 2s. and Is.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
- J. C. Williamson Ltd. present
MURIEL STARR
in
THE YELLOW TICKET.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 61- ;
Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY (MATINEE), NOVEMBER 28.
Geo. Willoughby, Ltd., present the Australian
Historical Drama,
THE KELLY GANG.
Prices: 2/-, 1/- and 6d. Plan at Pianola.
ELBOURNE REPERTORY THEATRE.
Direction GREGAN McMAHON.
AT THE ATHEN.EUM HALL.
DECEMBER 5, 7 and 8—
THE PHILANDERER,
A Comedy by Bernard Shaw.
DECEMBER 12, 14 and 15—
PETER’S MOTHER,
A Play bv Mrs. Henry de la Pasture.
Box Plans at Pianola Co. and Booklovers’ Library,
December 1. __
SPLANADE, ST. HILDA, MELBOURNE.
Direction NIGEL BROCK.
THE GKEEN HANDIES.
EVERY EVENING at 8.30.
Prices 2/- and 1/-. NO BOOKING FEE.
I J O U T II E A T RE. 51 E L B O U R NE.
FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON, 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
CLINTON & BEATRICE, STERLING & LOVE,
LESTREE, LES WARTON, DAN DOYLE, CROTTON
& KREMKA, ERNEST PITCHER, ANDREWS &
DENT, THE MUSICAL HUGHES.
Prices: 2/6. 2/-. 1/- V 6d. Matinees: 1/6. 1/- k 6(1-
|_g OYT US PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
THREE BIG SHOWS.
OLYMPIA, Princes Bridge.
NATIONAL THEATRE, Bourke Street (Eastern end).
HOYT’S OWN, Bourke Street, centre (now building).
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL.
In Melbourne it is proposed that the Aus-
tralian Government should provide uniforms,
rifles and equipment for a “National Re-
serve” of middle-aged men, because “the
national reserve is now recognised as part
of the defensive forces of Great Britain.”
This is no reason, seeing that Australia
has adopted the compulsory service the
moneyed classes of England were too mean
to pay for in their own country. “It is
suggested,” say the protagonists of this
scheme to spend useful money, “that the
National Reserve should be purely voluntary
as regards annual training in camp, but
that it should be compulsory for members
to undergo an annual course of musketry.”
Australians wanted all round service and had
to accept boy service. The system is, however,
now .turning out good trained men at a cost
nobody grumbles at; and if the expenditure
is to be increased it should be by dragnetting
the young men who were born in the few
years before 1896 —not in equipping “volun-
teers” who want uniforms and limelight.
Dr. Stewart McKay, the Sydney surgeon
,who has just been elected to the London
Author’s Club, is not a member by virtue
I of’ his medical works, as stated in the daily
J papers. Like Chief Justice Griffith, he is
a Dante enthusiast, and has written tire-
lessly on the subject of the poet and his
works. The Authors’ Club refuses dog-
. gedly to accept medical text-books as
• literature.


Sores Formed Large Scabs. Very
Painful, Also Great Itching, Used
Cuticura Soap and Ointment.
Scabs Disappeared,
10 Lackey St., St. Peters, N. S. W. —“For
several months I had a very bad breaking
out of sores which formed large scabs on
my neck. The sores and scabs were very
painful, also itching; in fact the itching was
so great that I could hardly keep my hand
away from the scabs. I had tried various
so-called cures but without relief, when,
remembering what my friends had told me
of Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Ointment,
I got some Cuticura Ointment and from the
first application I derived relief and after
applying it as directed, before going to bed,
I am thankful to say that the scabs com-
pletely disappeared within two months.
The Cuticura Ointment is a cure for any-
thing of that kind, also I hare found it
useful for the relief of insect bites, cuts and
wounds.” (Signed) George James Ilex,
February, 1913.
In the care of baby’s skin and hair, Cuti-
cura Soap is the mother’s favorite. Not
only is it unrivaled in purity and refresh-
ing fragrance, but assisted by Cuticura
Ointment its gentle emollient properties aro
usually sufficient to allay minor irritations,
remove redness, roughness and chafing,
soothe sensitive conditions, and promote
skin and hair health generally. They are
also most valuable in the treatment of ecze-
mas, rashes and other itching, burning in-
fantile eruptions. Cuticura Soap wears to
a wafer, often outlasting several cakes of
ordinary soap and making its use most eco-
nomical. Cuticura Soap and Cuticura
Ointment are sold throughout the world
Liberal sample of each mailed free, with
32-p. Skin Book. Address R. Towns & Co..
Sydney, N. S. AV.
Hvmccea
TOUCHES
THE
SPOT
ã
THE PIONEER OF SKIN CURES
No household should be without it.
For ECZEMA, PILES, SCALDS, BURNS,
CUTS, BRUISES, SORES, and all Skin
Complaints.
For Free Sample enclose Two Penny Stamr«.
LYALL WILLIS & CO.,
Sole Wholesale Agents,
127, York Street, Sydnev.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
mi
10
2
4
9
3
810 BEN
4
i 6 jy
m
Big Ben
TELL him when
and how you
want to get up—
he’ll be there with
two bells.
One gives a straight
5 minute ca 11 the
other 10 successive half-
minute rings.
Big Ben is made in La Salle,
Illinois , U.S.A., by Westclox.
If you cannot find him in your
town, send a money order to his
makers’ Australian office, West-
clox. 63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
They will have one mailed to you
at once by the nearest jeweller.
12/6
postage, 1l- extra
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HOLDS THE WORLD’S RECORD for LARGEST BONUSES.
NEXT DISTRIBUTION OF PROFITS AS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1914.
ALL participating policies issued in the Ordinary Department before the close of the cuirent jeai wi
share in the Cash Bonus to be then allotted. £983 500
£1,730,000
Cash Bonus divided for year 1913.
Yielding reversionary additions to policies of over . .
SOCIETY IS PURELY MUTUAL. NO SHAREHOLDERS.
ALL the profits earned are distributed among the participating policy-holders. f
NOW is the time to effect an assurance or a further assurance on your life so as to reap tne Denenc ui
this year’s cash Bonus. . ~ c • ~ f _
WRITE to the Head Office, 87 Pitt Street, Sydney, or any District Office or Agent of the society lor
full particulars.
RICHARD TEECE, F.l'.A., F.E.A., F.S.S.,
General Manager and Actuary.
JAMES STEEL,
Acting Secretary.
AN/EMIA
and Debility
IF you are run-down, easily exhausted and out
of breath —if you feel slack, depressed, or
“out-of-sorts,” start a Course of Iron
‘Jelloids’ at once. Iron ‘Jelloids’ are the
finest and most reliable tonic for.all cases of
Anaemia or Debility. They quickly restore
vitality, and produce the rich healthy blood so
essential to good health and vigour. Iron
‘Jelloids’ are a perfectly safe remedy under
all conditions —pleasant, inexpensive, do not
harm the teeth, and are non-constipating.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote: —
“ It can be definitely stated that Iron ‘Jelloids’
constitute the most effective and desirable
treatment for the cure of that common com-
plaint, that insidious and weakening condition,
no matter from what cause arising, known
as Anaemia or Poorness of Blood.”
A fortnight’s trial (Frice 1/6) will convince yon
Iron Jelloids'
enrich the blood - renew vitality
Special Tonic for Men, Iron ‘Jelloids,’ No. 2A (containing Quinine). For
Women, Iron ‘Jelloids,’ No. 2. For Children, Iron ‘Jelloids,’ No. j.
IRON JELLOIDS are sold by all Chemists in Australia.
Manufactured only by The Jelloid Co., 205, City Road, London, England.
Wholesale: Druggists' Sundries LtdB2 , Pitt Street , Sydney , N.S.W.
Be sure you takelr6n jelldidsS titoes a day
ä
IN Bostock shoes, the feet always feel beautifully
light and comfortable; and the wearer is ready
for a garden party or any smart function. So
perfect are their fitting properties, that the shoes
positively feel as though they have been made
specially. Every time they are worn the wearer
experiences a sense of satisfaction, wonderfully like
that enjoyed in a smart Parisian gown; and this
feeling is intensified by knowing that the shoes are
exclusive in style and exquisitely finished.
Bostocks are the cream of imported shoes. Special
shipments have recently arrived at the leading stores,
and ladies should call before the choicest styles are
sold.
805
å
Style 580
THE GREAT REMEDY.
•riiAlJta
** GOUT
(Si RHEUMATIC PILLS.
The severe pain of Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Neuralgia can be relieved by
BLAIR’S PILLS, the Medicine that has
stood the test of Time. Purely vegetable.
Sure and Safe. Sold by all Drug Stores
and-229 Strand. London, England, in Boxes
at Is. and 2s. fid.
Wholesale Agents: Elliott Bros. Ltd..
F. H. Fmilding and Co.. Sydney, and others.
The Experienced Traveller
Knows the Value of a
“MO S Q l E L”
RUG.
It will stand any weather and
afford Warmth and Comfort
under every circumstance.
The IDEAL TRAVELLING RUG!
Sold at all the Best Shops.
[4
Do Yon Need Money?
II so, write us and we will tell you how
you can make from
£5 to £lO per Week:
We are manufacturers of the famous
“Davis” perfumes, soaps and toilet arti-
cles, and we
need repre-
sentatives in
every com-
munity.
W e illus-
trate one of
our many
combination
boxes —very
popular sell-
ers. You
can make big
money by
selling these
boxes.
If you want
to establish a
business of
fULLYWAHRAHia
! DIAMOND
PRICE
C ROONI
HOLLO*
EXTRA
CLIMAX
your own without investing much money,
where you can earn a good living and
besides accumulate a substantial bank account*
write us today and we will tell you how* l'
®E. M. DAVIS SOAP COMPANY
Dept. Eft-10, 222 N. Desplaines St., Chicago, U. S. A.
Business, Robbery, etc
“Tassy Hoe”: The frozen meat trade
threatens to run into a dead-end within the
next few weeks. This is usually the brisk
time of the year; but vessels with refrigerat-
ing outfits have been so scarce lately
that the cold stores are bulging, and prices
of fat stock are on the decline. The trouble
started when the Government had to com-
mandeer a number of vessels for its own
purposes. Had they been kept at their
ordinary job of carrying frozen chops these
ships would have already delivered one
cargo and most of them would have
by this. time been loading a second.
It is impossible to replace them by others
not already provided with refrigerating
space, as insulating is an expensive job
which takes anything from three to four
months. There is apparently only one
way to save the situation. A number. of
interned German vessels have refrigerating
outfits, and the Commonwealth Government,
co-operating perhaps with the British Gov-
ernment, might utilise these steamers to
supply Britain and the Allies with their
very necessary cheap meat. Incidentally,
of course, they would give a helping hand
to the Australian producer. The position
so far as the latter is concerned is becom-
ing acute. When there is abundant grass,
the producer can hold back his stock until
the fat-stock market is ready, and meantime
the wool is growing. But only a mad producer
attempts to grow wool on fat stock if there
is little feed available ; and that is the posi-
tion in most cases at present.
* * * *
One of the Law’s queer off-shoots trans-
pired at Melbourne City Court last week.
She was a professional bailer and had put
up £5O to say that one William Clegg would
appear to stand his trial. And the dastard
had let her in! When the magistrate inti-
mated that she would have to pass over the
£5O she was as scandalised as a lady-bookie
might be who, having laid 100 to 1 against
a hopeless-looking outsider, found herself
called upon to pay up. For one reason and
another the bailing industry is really much
safer than it looks, and the lady’s luck was
clean out. The criminal’s splendid optimism
has a good deal to do with it, and if that
won’t fetch him he remembers that it is
practically impossible for him to remain at
large for" long after the Law has had one
good look at him.
* * * *
“Pick”: The Rock Flat mineral-water
spring, near Cooma (N.S.W.), seems to
have had the bottom knocked out of it by
Private Enterprise. It was, in the long
ago, discovered by Bob Muffett, a convict
assigned as cook to the squatter who expe-
ditioned the first Monaro cattle station at
Dangelong, in that vicinity. Not suspect-
ing its gaseous properties, Muffett made tea
from the clear spring water, and, when the
brew was tasted, he just escaped hanging or
something more dreadful, on a charge of
attempt to poison the camp. In those days,
and until some 20 years ago, when a com-
pany was privileged to bottle the waters for
commerce, the spring was perpetually effer-
vescive. At times it would belch itself over
the surrounding rocks, and, drying, leave
long trails of white sediment. None but
stone bottles could withstand its pressure,
and. shandy-gaffed with brandy or rum,
there was claimed for it a high quality for
arousing the lion in the whiskered bullockies
who oft caroused round the bubblesome pool.
When a company secured the spring, the
management dug it out to get down its
pumping plant, and, thenceforward, the bite
gradually oozed out of the waters. The
effervescence has almost ceased. Any old
bottle can hold the stuff, and chemical treat-
ment is required to make it twang up to
sale standard.
CONTINUATION OF THE LOG OF THE GOOD
SHIP IOU.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Speaking on the financial outlook of N. S. Wales
Mr. Holman remarked that he could see his way
ahead. He had every reason to hope that the diffi-
culties created by the war would be surmounted.
—News item.
The night was very dark,
And the fog was extra thick;
And aboard our good old barque
Half the crew was very “shick.”
All supplies were very short,
And the Devil only knew
If we'd ever make our port
In the old ship lOU.
All reckonings were lost;
The chronometer had stopped;
In the middle of a frost
The barometer had dropped!
And a most uneasy swell
Shook our hooker through and through—-
Oh, I tell you it was Hell
On the good old lOU.
We were carrying all sail,
Plain and fancy, fore and aft,
Though we knew a howling gale
Would swoop on our old craft 1
For our cap’n was a sport
Who would take a risk or two—
He was just the proper sort
For the good old lOU.
Though we couldn't see before,
And we couldn’t see behind,
We could hear the breakers roar
And the moaning of the wind!
Through the night and blinding fog
To the rocks she slowly drew,
While the cap'n kept the log
On the old ship lOU.
When we heard the shingle grind
On an unseen, deadly beach,
We went aft and spoke our mind —
And the cap’n made a speech!
Yes ; he told us not to fret —
We must take a cheerful view—
She would strike, but not just yet,
Would the good old IQU.
N.B.W.
CLARENCE O’HAGAN.


The Recognised Leading House for all
SMOKERS & SHAVERS’ REQUISITES
PIPES
H
I
G
H
%
G
n
A
D
E
S.N.Ij. Pipes, made from finest quality old
briar root, with superior liand-cut Para vul-
canite mouthpieces. Heavy Silver mounts.
A!1 shapes f>/- each (post free)
ā
“Goudron,” finest quality
Natural Block
Meerschaum Pipes.
THE
SWEETEST
AND
COOLEST
SMOKING
PIPES EVER PRODUCED.
Para Vulcanite Mouthpieces, in case,
8/0, 10/6, 12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 21/-
each (post free).
Natural Pressed Amber Mouthpieces,
in case,
12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 18/6, 25/- each
(post free).
CIGARS*
QUALITE
□ E LUXE.
“Golden Ivey”
Cigars, of exquisite
aroma and infinite
charm.
The Standard
of Luxury
in Smoking.
mm -
Put up in cedar cabinets containing- —
25 cigars, 11/(5; 50 cigars, 22/C
(post free).
Sample boxes of 5 cigars, 2/6 (post
free).
CIGARETTES.
Delightful, Fascinating
“Three Witches”
Cigarettes, made from
selected, sun-ripe
Virginian Tobacco.
Finest quality.
5/- per 100 (post
free;.
jHREEWiTCH^S
VIRGINIA
fcAßcrTts
ă
<ulSNO§ V-
•siuaoug
TOBACCOS.
“Sunol,” highest grade Virginian, awarded 4
gold medals. Dark or Light. In plug OV
cut, 6/- per lb. (post free), i
“J-iOUUS” Smoking Mixture, choicest tobaccos,
skilfully blended. Put up in 2oz. tins.
8/G per lb. (post free).
Tobacco Pouches.
H
A
N
D
Y
m
H
mm
G
0
M
P
A
G
T
Wallet Pouch, Split Ca1f...... 2/9 each
„ ~ Real Morocco .. 3/6 »
„ ~ Calf Crocodile . . 4/6 „
„ „ Gazelle 5/- :>
~ „ Velvet Calf 6/6 „
POCKET LIGHTERS.
$y\
w,
The “Sunol” Pocket
Lighter. Every smoker
should have one. Simple
in construction. Nothing
to get out of order.
2/- each (post free).
CIGAR and CIGARETTE
HOLDERS.
Amber Cigar Holders, silver rim,
in case, 6/6, 7/6 each.
Amber Cigar Holders, gold rim,
in case, 10/6, 11/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, silver
rim, in case 4/- 4/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, gold rim, in
case 7/6. 8/6 each.
SHAVING SETS.
N
O
T
H
I
N
G
m
B
E
T
T
E
R
Shaving sets, comprising- i i unowned C. 8.8.
Razor, 1 C. 8.8. Razor Strop, 1 Badger Hair
Shaving Brush, and stick Williams's Soap—-
18/6 (post free).
RAZORS
R
A
R
E
ą
Q
U
A
L
I
T
Y
The “Hitite” Razor, pronounced by experts
to be absolutely perfect. None to
equal it. Kept in good order for 2 years,
free of charge—
Vulcanite Handle 7/6 each (post free).
Ivory Handle 10/6 each (post free).
SAFETY RAZORS.
The Celebrated “Auto Strop” Safety
Razor, complete with 12 blades and strop,
in leather case 22/6 (post free).
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney
Branches : CITY, SUBURBS and NEWCASTLE.
KYNOCH
USE
BRITISH MADE
.22 Rim Fire CA.R.TRIDGES
Head Works: Birmingham, England. And at Melbourne 8 Sydney.
BROOKS 817 “Champion” Patent Path Racing Saddle.
BROOKS Saddles comprise so large and intelligently
planned a variety that every rider can be suited perfectly,
whatever his or her requirements may be.
BROOKS
OF ALL
imitations look
something like Bibd’S Custard.
But, blindfold, you can taste
the great superiority of
Birds
the Perfect CUSTARD.
Sold in Pkts., Boxes and new LARGE Tins.
POST FREE. A Valuable Recipe Book
sent, on receipt of address, by W . Douglass,
S 3, Liverpool Street, Sydney.
CTQ4S.W.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments.
Why not give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
HOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyhook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ingPampiilkt, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for tiie
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
ig 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PEA IX HOME TALK.”
By Dr, E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pasres.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and snows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting- their physician. Chapters
a(;e devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE
!SE~ BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS- LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards. Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for ail Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man P'rom Snowv River. 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Evert
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easj-, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. Is: post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s ’ 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
SklfTaught, ls2d. W annan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptamkron, and many
oth' rs, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee's Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. SHF'Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
lIE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Seni Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d post. Hr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/d. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers'
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Test Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingkrsoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Bead Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. lOONkw
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d, Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illtis., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing', Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


Brains and Beauty Pay
Tribute to REXONA.
».n
MISS EILEEN ROBINSON
(from a photo.).
Miss EILEEN ROBINSON is one of the
brightest of the present-day young Australian
actresses. Petite, slim, with a sparkling
face, and with ability far beyond her years,
Miss Robinson is every day more delightful
| vnd popular.
Miss Robinson is another Rexona Girl.
See what she says about Rexona: —
It is three years since I first used
Rexona Skin and Facial Soap, and many
times since then I have wondered how
it was that I ever managed to get along
without it before. It is truly delight-
ful, and it makes the skin so soft and
delicate, and I like it much better than
any hair tonic for the hair; in fact, I
would never think of using any Soap
on my face but Rexona, for some Soaps
are so harsh and irritating, and I think
one cannot be too particular.
Often I have also had occasion to use
Rexona, the Rapid Healer, and I can
truly say that it is a wonderful Skin
Remedy. I will ever be a friend to
Rexona, and shall always recommend
it to all my girl friends.
Yours sincerely,
EILEEN ROBINSON,
EVERYBODY’S USING IT NOW
Rexona Soap and Ointment are universal favorites with everyone who values
a pure and healthy skin. The longer you neglect your skin the harder it will be
to care for it. Delay may result in Eczema, Psoriasis, Ringworm, Running Sores,
or some of the many and unpleasant forms that skin trouble so often assume. Rex-
ona, the Rapid Healer, and Rexona Soap are sure preservatives for the health and
skin. Rexona Soap (Is. per tablet) keeps the skin soft and pure, and Rexona, the
Rapid Healer, will immediately eradicate any disease which may be apparent, for
it arouses the skin to healthy activity, so that it quickly recuperates and the dis-
eased skin becomes once more sound and healthy. Rexona is sold everywhere. in
triangular nots at Is. or in larger pots, holding nearly four times the quantity,
at 3s.
o
o
0
THE RAPID HEALER
Choose a “Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness—each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —-those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
ā
“Swan Safety'
Can't Leak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch !
Catalogue free on request.
MArSIE, TODD & CO., London and
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only) : J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney,
Wi
fienrick's Cast Iron
POTS and PANS in
| your kitchen mean
Pounds in yonr Purse!
BRITISH MADE
BY BRITISH
WORKMEN
because they outlive enamel
and all other ware; because
they come to the boil quicker and never chip,
rust, leak, or rub into holes.
KENRICK'S Cast Iron Saucepans and Kettles have
been known to give good service for over two
score years, with hard daily wear, and are good
cookers and quick boilers right to the end.
See that they are onsaieataii
KENRICK’S Cast Iron ironmongers,
Made by Archibald
Kenrick & Sons Ltd., Eng.
STOEES, Etc,
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price. 21s,
The Good Old Times.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Good Old Times, camerados! But,
B yes, the Good Old Times !
The Golden Age of the green earth —
the great Red Letter Days, carefully to
be differentiated from these grim Red
Latter Days!
Our fathers before us sighed, and we now
sigh, for the Good Old Times.
Did not Satan, after the Infernal Council
met, remark to Belial, or Beelzebub, or
some other fallen angel whose name
began with B.:
“This is surprisingly novel, but it’s not like
the Good Old Times!”
And, 200 years after leaving Eden, Adam
remarked to Eve that the apples sent by
Cain from the Land of Nod were fine
and large, but not a pip on the Paradise
fruit they pte in the Good Old Times !
Ah, no!
Considerably later, the wandering Israelites
murmured that quail and manna and
sermons were all very well as desert
fare, but give them the goat and chicken
and whips of the Land of Goshen in the
Good Old Times!
Furthermore, after the Captivity, the re-
stored Jews used to disparage the
amusements and the architecture of the
Second Jerusalem—observing things
like: “Ah, yes, but you should have seen
the Palace of the Great King, and the
Hanging Gardens; and what can they
show nowadays to compare with the
lion-taming act of Daniel in the Good
Old Times ?”
Think, too, camerados, of that generation
which spoke regretfully of the vanished
Consulates of Plancus and Pontius
Pilate!
Reflect upon the early and faithful Chris-
tians who loudly deplored the advent of
shaving, haircutting and the hot bath —
so different from the Good Old Times !
Remember the sturdy old barons and the
belted earls, who belted ll out of their
serfs and wept bitterly at the passing
of the Feudal System and the Deepest
Dungeon ’neath the Castle Moat
Of the Good Old Times!
How long, how truly, Holy Church mourned
the grand old customs, fallen into desue-
tude among a godless generation—
The customs of Denunciation, Inquisition
and Deliverance to the Secular Arm—
The persuasive methods and humane means
employed to ensure penitence and salva-
tion —
The weight, the wheel, the rack, the cord,
tlie thumbscrew, the boot, the Virgin’s
Kiss, the stake—
Ah, me! The Good Old Times !
I say nothing of those estimable folk who
declared they regretted the disappear-
ance of the Borgias, or of the Council
of Ten—
There were many such folk, camerados !
Nor do I more than allude to the gallant
and courtly gentlemen of the Old Regime
who, for many years, asseverated that
the lettre de cachet and le droit de
Seigneur had made life worth living in
the Good Old Times!
No, no, cela va sans dire —or, in other
words, the mere allusion will suffice!
And I would remind you that in our time
good people have died who regarded the
abolition of The System as a deathblow
to Liberty and an outrage upon the
Constitution.
When gently remonstrated with, those good
people simply sighed and said: “The
country is going to the dogs ! It was
not so in the Good Old Times!’’
Nor was it, camerados!
Which brings us pretty well up (or down)
to date.
Weird, elusive, long-lived Good Old Times!
x tliey exist, ?d about 1840.
In 1984 the Good Old Times will be 1914.
Carramba! Eureka!! Chiaroscuro!!!
Why, then—?
Yes !
THESE ARE THE GOOD OLD TIMES !
±>ut, yes, camerados!
And if you will look round you carefully
you will note that they keep remarkably
true to type.
In 1984—0 r thereabouts —folk will be sav-
ing: ‘
Deav me! Isn’t it dull! Not even a dog-
_ fight ! Why, in 1914
;h, a miserable, _ sinful, wicked world ! All
| gaiety, and immorality, and selfishness !
_ln the good old, etc.
politics? Bah! Not a statesman left! We
need men like those who lived in the
good old days, my boy! Ah, those grand
. old, etc.
Literature’s dead, nowadays ! Now, look at
™ men who were alive and writing in
P>l4. Of course, the Great War
those days good old. etc.
ioor? Of course, we’re poor, dear! There’s
no money about nowadays. It all has to
ao in interest on the loans of 1914
lour Grandpa can tell you, dear....
Borrowed when he was a baby. .. .
very well off in the Good Old Times!”
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.
The Sale of the Hash-Tower.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OUR neighborhood, which is a kind of
Alsatia between apologetic sordidness
and aggressive poverty, spent an enjoy-
able day yesterday. I was writing an ode
on the Binomial Theorem when my medi-
tation was interrupted by a fat, flustered
female forcing her way into the room. She
said: “Are you Mr. Blodger?” I apologised.
“I was told Mr. Blodger lived here.” Her
tone was stentorian. “Mrs. Blodger is in the
wash-house,” I ventured to remark. “There
is no Mr. Blodger, to my knowledge.” “You
are no gentleman,” she snorted with a sense
of outraged respectability, and left. (I have
usually been complimented on my charm
of manner.)
A bell started to ring furiously. It kept
on ringing. Mrs. Blodger appeared with a
broom,. “Would you mind going cut fer an
hour or two? People are seeing the house.”
I said: “It would be a pleasure.” “Oh!”
Mrs, Blodger lamented. “This is the most
shameful day of my life. All the neighbors,
the cats, will be here to see what I’ve got.
They won’t buy anything, and I won't sell
anything separately. It all has to be sold
together as a going concern.” I was sym-
pathetic. Mrs. Blodger wept hot tears.
“Since he cleared out there has been nothing
but trouble. The Colonel has asthma now.
Mr. and Mrs. Jones, who were such good
payers—they occupied the back balcony
room—left because they said there were bugs
in the bed. Did you ever hear the like!
Gladys got scarlatina.” (Gladys was her
daughter, a sickly child who grizzled all day
long. When Gladys grizzled, Mrs. Blcdger
slapped her, and then Gladys grizzled some
more, completing a circle of slap and grizzle
that became monotonous.) “And now, when
I am selling out all the furniture and the
goodwill together, the agent wants his com-
mission all the same. It is a shameful day ;
shameful.”
Half a dozen strangers crushed into the
room (half a dozen always made a crush)
and criticised the furniture adversely. Cer-
tainly the furniture was not elegant, but
then there wasn’t much of it, so criticism
was misplaced. Mrs. Blodger rushed weep-
ing away to interview the auctioneer. The
Colonel, who occupied the front room, rose
from his sick bed, wrapped himself in a
great coat, and cursed in good Anglo-Indian.
I met him in the passage. A vast crowd of
friends and neighbors, some hot and excit-
able, others callous and scornful—crows and
vultures, keen to observe holes in the carpets,
keen to smell out rats in the pantry—surged
in the narrow passages, stuffed the drawing-
room where Gladys was playing with a fry-
ing-pan, filled the bedrooms where some of
the startled lodgers were completing their
toilettes before effecting their escape, and
overflowed into the cellar, where Mrs. Blod-
ger slept, and where she had hidden under
the bed a pile of wood which she intended
to carry away surreptitiously (I noticed that
many prospective buyers were carrying away
a piece for a keepsake), the wash-house and
a tiny enclosure of dirt and stones, called
the yard, whereto many of the household
gods had been conveyed!
I was tapped on the shoulder. It was my
friend Ryan, the star boarder who occupied
the balcony room. “Have you locked your
cupboard?” he shouted. (The bellringer was
making a mournful din.) “There were no
keys to mine. I took the lock off and bought
a key for sixpence. Everything exposed will
be sold. I’ll take your lock off, if you like.”
Ryan was a master of detail and a most
obliging fellow, but we got lost in the crowd.
“A shameful day!” I heard Mrs. Blodger
wailing. (By the way, I gathered from
friends some valuable information regarding
the mysterious Blodger. Blodger was re-
ported to have “rats,” but as he had delib-
erately deserted his wife and child, not to
mention the home, however weak he maj
have been in ethics, I had no doubt as to
his sanity.)
It seemed more entertaining in the draw-
ing-room. A little ginger-headed man was
standing on a three-legged chair. “Look at
that lovely pianner! How much am I
offered?” The lovely pianner was a cross
between a harpsichord and a barrel organ,
looking like an elderly spinster who had lost
her front teeth. Whenever anyone touched
a key it wheezed sadly, but emitted no
definite sound. The ivory was off most of
the keys; also most of the keys were missing.
“Pianner? W’y, that belongs to Mrs.
Blodger’s sister. It was shoved in for the
sale. The Blodgers never had no pianner.”
(This curious instrument had been conveyed
to the house early in the morning by a
stunted Kanaka-looking boy yclept Arthur.)
“Ten bob!” said a voice.
I took Mrs. Blodger’s advice, and decided
to go out for a week or two. (The wife was
surf-bathing at Bondi.) I descended to the
cobble-stones outside the house, where a tall,
pessimistic youth was swinging the front door
bell which had been torn down from the
passage for the occasion. “Anythin’ good
inside?” he asked. “Depends what you call
good,” a lady answered with hauteur. “Go
an’ bloomin’ well see for yerself.” I was
caught up in a passing tram, had two ferry
rides (in the same boat) and four long beers.
I returned at twilight expecting to see
Nineveh in ruins. Mrs. Blodger was radiant.
“I sold everything, including the goodwill,
for £33 12s. fid. I fixed it up through the
auctioneer. The agent wants his commis-
sion, but I didn’t sign any paners; so what
can he do? Gladys, I’ll smack you, if you
don’t take your paw out of the jam.”
(Gladys grizzled.) The wife, who had re-
turned from Bondi, was engaged in a heated
argument with the new landlady, to whom I
was introduced with great formality. She
seemed a business-like personage. “We will
shake down to each other’s ways in a few
weeks.” (I had no doubt whatever that we
would soon shake down into hers.) “Of
course, we had better begin as we mean to
continue. I prefer your wife not to go into
the kitchen to cook, and I would rather you
didn’t smoke in the rooms.” She left with
the majestic bearing of a Dreadnought. I
tried dejectedly to light the lamp to finish
my ode, but it refused to burn. The wife
discovered that the new landlady had taken
all the oil out of the lodgers’ lamps, as it had
been included in the furniture.
At this dark moment a distraught female
rushed in announcing that George’s second-
best boots had disappeared. (They had pro-
bably been given in with the goodwill.) Help-
lessly I reclined on a faded Genoa plush
chair, and breathed as heavily as the Colonel,
who, I learned, was now confined to his room.
There was an -outcry in the passage. The
a spent was demanding his commission from
the new landlady. (I did not fancy his
chance.) “Mrs. Blodger deceived me,” said
a voice. “She has taken away the linen.
There are only two towels, and one double
sheet in tatters. Look at it!”
“Did you lose anything?” It was the
cheerful voice of Ryan, who bounded in.
Great Scott! A suit of pyjamas, a coffee
pot (which the wife had borrowed from
Ryan), a volume of Rossetti, and a fountain
pen were missing. “I told you so.” said Ryan
triumphantly. “They’d pinch anything here.
I took off the lock this morning and bought
a new key.” But there was much consola-
tion in the fact that the pessimistic youth
lmd ceased swinging the infernal front-door
bell.
GANAESHA.


BENT BACKS
“ Every Pictuv&
Tells a Story”
S SK
Why Are They Bent?
Not always on account of age, for
many old people have straight backs
—and many young people have bent
hacks. They are bent with the pains
of kidney disease, lumbago —uric
acid in the, muscles of the loins, con-
gestion of the kidneys—the pains
that make the young feel old, and
the old feeble and shaky.
Rest in bed may ease a bad back,
but it cannot cure it. Only a medi-
cine that reaches the cause can do
that. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
are solely for weak and ailing kid-
neys. They help the kidneys to
throw off uric acid poison, which is
the cause not only of backache and.
lumbago, but of gravel, stone, rheu-
matism, dizzy attacks, irregular
heart, and that heavy drowsy feel-
ing. Doan’s Pills regulate the
urinary system like ordinary medi-
cines regulate the bowels; they re-
lease the accumulated water in
dropsy, and relieve bladder weak-
ness, which is so common in children
and the aged.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
pure; and cannot injure the most
delicate patient.
BE SURE YOU GET DOAN’S.
Sydney Man Cured of
Serious Kidney Trouble.
‘SUFFERED FOR YEARS.
Mr. Joseph Abrahams, 25 Bpurke Street,
Redfern, Sydney, says: “I have
suffering for over 40 years from kidn y
disease. I have had dreadful attacks,
and have had to stay in bed for a tort-
night at a time. I suffered intense
agony with my back, and spent hundreds
of pounds on doctors and medicines, but
obtained no relief whatever A friend
of mine advised me to take Doan s -Back-
ache Kidney Pills, and I got some and
commenced to use them, carefully follow-
ing the directions. 1 did not have much
faith in them, having tried so many
remedies without success. However,
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills proved the
exception, they cured me. 1 cannot say
enough in praise of these wonder tut
pills. I hope many will benefit by my
experience, and give Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills a trial. Should any suf-
ferer call on me. 1 shall be pleased to
give fuller particulars of my thorough
<U Three years later Mr. Abrahams says:
“Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me
of backache and kidney trouble over
three years ago. and I have been well
ever since. Before I took this remedy 1
was a terrible sufferer with my back, but
now I am absolutely free of every ache
and pain.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
sold by all Chemists and Stores at
2/9 per bottle, or posted by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
DOAN’S
ǻ
PIUS
CURES BY DOAN’S OINTMENT
PILES.
Mrs. C. King, 47 Marlborough Street,
Surry Hills, Sydney, says: “About three
years ago I had a very severe attack of
Tiles, and suffered intense aaony. I used
a great number of Pile remedies, but they
were useless in my case. I heard of a
cure effected by Doan’s Ointment, and
decided to give it a trial. The soothing
and healing effects of this Ointment are
marvellous. A few applications gave me
ease, and a short treatment quite cured
me. and I have not been troubled with
Piles since. I think; the world of Doan’s
Ointment, and advisie all sufferers to give
it a trial.”
Three years later Mrs. King says: “I
am pleased to bring the above statement
up to date by telling you I am sti'll free
of Piles, and have been ever since Doan’s
Ointment cured me nearly six year's ago.”
ECZEMA.
Mrs. J. Thompson, 3 Onslow Street,
Granville, Sydney, says: “I or a long
time I was tortured with Eczema, lhe
pain and irritation of this ailment are
dreadful, the days are miserable and the
nights sleepless. I tried all sorts of
remedies, but nothing did me any good.
I also consulted a doctor, but his treat-
ment did not benefit me. My son induced
me to get a pot of Doan’s Ointment, and
I am glad I did, for after a few applica-
tions I noticed an improvement. I con-
tinued the treatment, and after using two
pots I was completely cured. Doan's
Ointment is wonderful, and I never miss
an opportunity, of praising it. Eczema is
a terrible complaint, and other sufferers
will be pleased to know of a sure cure.”
Four years later, Mrs. Thompson says:
“I have" had no return of Eczema since
Doan’s Ointment cured me four years
ago, so I reckon I am cured for good.”
Doan's Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Stores
at 219 per pot, or posted free by Foster-McClellan
Co., Pitt Street, Sydney .
Un Embarras de Richesse.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
«SEE by the paper that this Vander-
bilt bloke is the richest cove in
the world. He don’t know what
he’s good for. He’s got more brass than he
can blew, and the responsibility of his vast
inlierrytance is bringing his young heirs in
sorrer to the gryve.”
It was the cook at Bel ah who spoke as we
sat and smoked on the edge of his hessian
verandah. Nobody offered comment, so he
babbled on.
“I can symperthyse with Vandy, symper-
tliyse ’eartily. I’ve bin in the same box
myself.
“Ves! Larst Christmus twelvemonths.
“I’d bin ’avin’ a rippin’ time in Sydney.
Did forty-eight hours for arskin’ a cop ter
jine me in prayer. Lorst two o' me teeth
for speakin’ outer me turn in Surry ’llls,
was rescued from the surf at Bondi, did in
all ine brass at the ponies, an’ then I falls
off the tram that’s takin’ me to the railway,
an’ wakes up in the horsepital with conclu-
sion of the brain, an’ me port and the end of
me little finger both gone.
“I stays there a week while they fixes me
thinker up, an’ then they fires me. Sez they:
‘We can’t keep a cove till the end of liis little
finger grows again ; so ’ook it. But drop in
every other day, an’ we’ll do it up for you.’
“Nice sorter tale to pitch a cove three
’undred miles from ’ome an’ only ’arf a
dollar an’ a few coppers in his kick.
“That day I’d a sprat dinner; two beers
an’ a ninepenny doss. Nex’ day I was on
me uppers, an’ at night slep’ in the grass
paddick they calls the Domain.
“About sunup it blows a southerly, an’
sendfe all the old tram tickets, dead leaves an’
larst week’s newspaners whizzin’ through the
hatmosphere fit to smother a cove what’s
only been used to a Wagga shower. I
burrers me ’ead in me ’at an’ me two ’ands,
but that don’t keep the rubbitch off, for when
it lulls a bit, an’ I shakes me nut outer the
debreeze, there’s a suspitchous bit o’ paper
tangled in. me fingers—-and when I examines
it. It’s a Fifty-pound Note.
“I nearly fainted; me brain still bein’ a
bit tender.
“I looks dost, an’ it ain’t no Bank of
Eluphants or Victorian o. and B. Bank, but
a fair dinkum, jist outer the box. Commin-
wealth Bank ov Orsetrailiar toad-skin.
“Fifty fluid! I nearly did in me block.
“I lays low an’ kids I’m asleep—expectin’
every minute to be trodden on by a bloke
chasin’ it up. But nothing ’appens, an’
when the wind lulls again I pulls meself
together, gets up on me hind legs, an’ hoofs
it towards the houses. For that way tucker
lies, as some bloke says, an’ I’m gettin’
dam’ungry. The fust pub I sights I drops
into.... blows the froth off, squints at the
hempty glass, an’ says to the cove be’ind the
bar: ‘Gan yous gimme me change fer a
note ?’
“ ‘So’s it’s a good ’nn I can,’ he chirps
back. But when I shows it to ’im he. shakes
his ’ead an’ says I shouldn’t fire a thing like
that at a stranger fust thing in the mornin’.
“ ‘lt’s the smallest I’ve got,’ says I.
‘What’ll I do?’
“ ‘Seein’ as you’ve scoffed the booze, an’
I’ve jist swep’ the bar,’ says he. ‘I suggests
nothin’. It’s a new one on me. but, be care-
ful. A chap as hadn’t my sense of humor
might get nasty. Good mornin’.’
“So I travelled. But yous can’t go far
on one beer.
“I knew what cruelled me. I didn’t look
a bloke what used fifty quids for mornin’
beers; but if I’d had a new suit on an’
• cigar stuck in me face they’d bin failin’
aver themselves ter serve me. When the
shops opened I strolled into a tailor’s an’
said : ‘Gimme a suiter does.’
“ ‘Lownge, business, mornin’ or evenin’
wear?’ scoffs a bloke in a long banger, an’
smilin’ all over bis horrid countenance.
“I was up to him. ‘One ov each,’ I chips,
an’ winks.
“He was suttinly abashed, but he’d hardly
touched tjie ropes when he was at me again.
‘Our terms for new customers are cash.’
“That was where he thought he had me.
but I flaps the note at him, an’ he goes down
on his hands an’ knees an’ bumps his for’ead
on the floor three times. ‘Pardon me, sir,’
he \vailed. ‘I bad no idea you had the beans
on you. Here.’ and he pinted to stacks of
cloth piled like railway sleepers, ‘is the latest
styles from Bonding. As worn by the Prints
of Wales, George Reid, Willie Kelly and all
the old nobility.’
“ ‘That’s no good ter me,’ says I. ‘I want
the finished article. Coat, vest, pants, hat,
shirt, boots’
“ ‘We only make to border,’ says he. ‘And
we couldn’t possibly undertake delivery
under three months.’
“I took it is a polite way of intimatin’
that he didn’t want my business, so I trails
up George-street, gettin’ hungrier and
every minute, an’ no sign of a bite
o’ tucker cornin’ my way at all. Towards
midday I picks out a quiet pub, slips in an’
orders a beer, leavin’ it on the counter while
I sidles over to the free-lunch table an’ exer-
cises me teeth some. When I drifts back to
the bar again, bust me, if there ain’t a cove
tossin’ off me pot.
“ ‘Here,’ I sings out to the boss, ‘tvot
sorter joint is this where a man can’t set his
glass down without it being shook?’
“The cow slopes and the boss wants to
know wots up.
“ ‘That bummer as jist gone out shook me
beer.’
“‘lf a man ain’t got sense enuff to mind
his pint he deserves ter loose it,’ says he,
quite narsty.
“ ‘ls that so?’ I says. ‘The fault is mine.
I thought I was in a respecterble pub, not a
randyvoo ov tugs.’
“He reaches over the bar, tans me in the
eye, and I sits down in the sawdust. ‘Now,’
says he, ‘git after yer mate, if it’s your turn
to swig the lush nex’ time while he has a
free feed. An’ I hone the Lord ’ll put his
eye in a sling, same’s yours is.’
“There was no use argyin’ with him. He
wasn’t in the humor to lissen to anythink, so
I buzzed off.
“I was scared. Honest, I was fair rattled.
Why, if I showed my plaster in that den,
I’d never got out alive. But I got a kind
of a feed out of them anyhow. So I camps
■in Hyde Park until after sundown, sufferin’
the pangs of thirst. Me! with enuff sugar on
me ter buy a pub.
“I tried a fish-shop about ten o’clock.
Ate arf a lobster, two large plates and
about a hatful of prawns. Then I tries
for a beer —that is, I orders a beer, but the
Dago waits for the traybit and I’m up
against it once more. While I’m roomin-
atin’, this spagetti-eater gets seized with
the idea that I’m a takedown. His face
assoomes a swarthy pallor and he staggers
back repeatin’ the alphabet in a loud vice.
Two other Dagoes comes at me with ister
knives. One 1 outs with the anchovy sarse,
puts the remains of me repast over his mate
an’ dove for the back country. When my
wind guv out I was in a side lane near a
swell pub. Fellers in swaller-tailer suits
were there in mobs. I crep’ up and sighted
them through the side door. It gave me an
idea. It was indeed a bright thought.
“ ‘Hoo-bloomin’-ray!’ I yells, bustin’ in on
the gay throng. ‘Boys, it’s my shout! All-
up to the bar.’
“Some of them never turned their heads.
“‘I got the stuff,’ I beefed, wavin’ my
fifty. They shrunk back as if I’d the small-
pox. Some of them smiled a sorter ‘pore
feller’ smile at me. The queen-bees at the
beer-pumps never batted an eyelash. I
nearly wep’. One chap comes and pats me
on the shoulder an’ advises me to go ’ome.
Wasn’t it sickenin’? It was the very thing
I was trying to do. A cove dressed up like
an area-officer depossits me on the door-
step and a passin’ cop lumbers me for
righteous behavior.
“The P.M. was a kind old gent with wife
hair, an’ when the John pitched his tale
about me offerin’ to shout drinks all round
in the Australia bar, his eyes nearly popped
outer his head.
“ ‘Dear, dear,’ lie gurgled. ‘How long is it
since you were in Sydney before?’
“I told him: ‘Two years larst shearin’.’
“ ‘Sad, very, very sad,’ he mumbled. ‘My
good man, can’t you see how foolish it is of
you to waste the result of two years’ hard’-
ous toil in such a senseless manner? You
ought to be very grateful to the police that
they took charge of you and your money.
If I let you off with a small fine, will you
promise to go back to the country at once?’
“I accepted his offer with several expres-
sions of delight that set me back ten bob for
slanguage. The frec-drink offer cost me two
quid.
“ ‘ls there any officer here who will under-
take to see this person safe on the train?’
says his nibs.
“A Salvation captain took me on. I gave
him two quid outer the change I got back
from the sergeant and a quid to pass on to
the cop that lumbered me.
“I might as well hav’ guv him the lot.
because two gents what got in at Strath-
field eased me of the rest before I got to
Lawson. They were bosker euchre players.
It wasn’t until I finally sobered up that I
remembered seein’ them in the court when I
paid my fine.
“Now., if they could get in touch with
Tandy, he’d be outer his trouble in one act.”
D. H. SOUTER.
North and West.
[FOR THE BUOLLETIN.]
Oil, set the sail for northward, and
round by the bluff Three Kings,
the great Australian continent
then westward set your wings ;
The Tasman Sea may darkly roll with its
leagues of hill between,
But steer for the beacon hung in the west
through night with stars as keen
(She is under the beacon and under the
star —Kathleen, Kathleen).
As the sun sinks, and the moon sinks, and the
star sinks in the sea,
With the sun, moon and star-beam my heart
follows from me,
And over the mount, and over the sea, and
over the earth asleep
j\jlv heart is one with the star and the sun
and the moon on the swaying deep
(O wanderer sweet, are you waiting now,
your watch with the stars to keep?).
There’s many a heart goes voyaging with
never a thought to fare
Through deeps of the darkness opening far
where the stars are flashing bare;
But a courier thought from me shall speed
with a memory sweet and keen,
Waking her heart to watch in the night
though the star-cross burn unseen
(She is under the beacon and under the
star —Kathleen, Kathleen).
As the rose, wind and the sea sigh to the
star, sun and the moon,
Oh, I sigh to you, love, may the arms of you
clasp me soon ;
My heart is the rose, my wish is the wind, my
will is the pathless sea.
And the wind and the sea shall bear my rose
to the place where it longs to be
(O wanderer sweet, but I dream of you.
Do ever you think of me?).
List, then, O maiden, where yonder the great
star twires;
As the great star swells and pulses and burns,
my heart swells with desires ;
It seeks far, it sighs far, and it sings o’er seas
between,
Faring many days, following many ways,
night and day, my queen
(You are under the beacon and under the
star —Kathleen, Kathleen).
If your heart yearns when your eye turns to
the star Ave have chosen ours,
Oh, think I am calling you, sweet; as calls
the sun to the flowers;
Till your heart unpetals, and passions of love
tremble from lips and eyes,
Tremble most SAveet as our spirits meet Avhen
the day in the star-light dies —
(O wanderer sweet, do you hear my pray-
ing as star-AA r ind round you sighs?).
MAORILAJfD.
J. C. A.


Westinghottse Pumping Set
Direct Coupled “Westinghouse” Cross Oil Engine
and Centrifugal Pump.
A SELF-CONTAINED UNIT SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR
m
and other work.
The Engine operates without
CARBURETTER or
VAPORISER, has no delicate
mechanism to get out of order,
and is automatically governed
and lubricated.
Write for Particulars to
The Westmghouse Brake Co.
2ueensla.net Agents: Holmes & Church,, Brisbane#
Hew Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
Concord West, N. S. Wales
Have You Considered
a
They are a much better proposition
than a Band Resaw. The upkeep is
considerably less, and the saw-kerf is
smaller, combined with more finished
cutting.
Universally Used in Europe in
Preference to a Band Resaw.
Feed up to 150 ft. per minute.
Ask our Bolinder expert to call on
you with a view of explaining more
fully the advantages of these Machines.
WPS***
m
-
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Brisbane; GORDON- FAME LTD. Melbourne: NOYES BROS. LTD.
\ v\ : !/ / y .
V.\\VU-L/ / X*
i
m
Lime -Frui t Juice.
Brings to your lips the juice
of the lime fruit.
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing.
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped
from London.
æ
What a Young Lady
Says:
“I like Remingtonrl/MC arms and am-
munition because in this age women should
know how to shoot as well as men. I
do not see why women should not indulge
in one of the world’s most popular sports;
nor do I see why we should be compelled
to face danger without, if necessary, defending our-
selves and our homes. Remington: UMC arms
are well made and just suit me because they can be
easily taken apart for cleaning or carrying and the
cartridges have always given perfect satisfaction;
besides they cam be procured from any deader.
ǽ
a
Young Ladies Prefei
PemlngtoriTUMC
Remington Arms—
Union-Metallic Cartridge Co,
iNew York London
Catalogs free
V\
v
k/
ONVH 3NOI 3HI
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d.
IT IS REALLY NECESSARY
for everybody to undergo a periodical cleansing of the bodily
system in order that all impurities may be eliminated and
sluggish organs assisted to perform their work in a satisfactory
manner. As a remedy with gently aperient and tonic properties,
Beecham’s Pills are unequalled for this purpose. There is
no remedy “just as good” and certainly nothing better
TO TAKE
than this old and well-tried medicine which is wholly free from,
any harmful drug, and prepared from the purest vegetable
ingredients of great curative value. As it exerts a most bene-
ficial influence upon the stomach, liver, kidneys and bowels.
Most of the disorders due to derangement of the digestive
system speedily disappear after a course of
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price I\l\ (56 pills ) & 2/9 (168 pills).
J. COLLIS
The Original anti Only
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
l/li, 2/9 & 4/b. Made in England
a
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
rhe cough of BBONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHCEA and simple
DYSENTERY.
-4
I
531
' ■
intfiMimnw
v.-
A Smile After Shaving.
Comfort during—and
after —your shave
comes with
COLGATE’S
SHAVING STICK
Its rich softening iather helps the razor,
and leaves the face cool and refreshed.
The feeling of a clean smooth skin is
only one reward of saying * Colgate s’
when you buy a shaving preparation.
Just try Colgate’s Stick for your shave
to-morrow morning.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
If you wish a trial size—
enough for a month’s use
—use the coupon.
COUPON.
Chipman, Ltd.,
54 Margaret Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me a trial size of Colgate's
Shaving Stick, in a handsome nickelled box.
I enclose 2d. in stamps to defray cost of
packing and postage.
Name...
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
agents for
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE. Established 1831.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all
cases of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and ]Sold bv ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
Price, 3/- per box, or a course of S
Boxes for £l. Post free under
plain cover.
On Sale at all Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF P
1 look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
à
Lockyer's
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
T LOOK OLD.


jjviANCROVITEj
á
LEATHER
BELTING
is the ALL AUSTRALIAN BELT.
In buying it you are not trading with the
enemy, nor adding to the profits of foreign
shareholders.
Sole Manufacturer and Proprietor:—
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 York Street, Wynyard Square, SYDNEY
(only).
Telephones: City 2898, 8406.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “Th 6 Bulletin” Office , Sydney.
ASK
FOR
Hardie’s Genuine
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACIP 8 ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES NARPiE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
and at Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
w
&
A k#
0
BUY
WHOLE
BOTTLES
SCHNAPPS
The
Importance
of
Efficient
Insulation]
The importance of efficient insulation, in many cases, is not realised, Great
care is shown in the selection of a steam plant to ensure the greatest economy,
yet the insulation which is of equal importance is in many cases partly neg-
lected If vou strive to make a saving in the steam consumption of your
engine, why not make certain that it is not wasted again through faulty in-
sulation ? The claims we make as to the exceptional efficiency of Newall’s
Coverings are fully borne out by actual test, and, further, by the enormous
sales, including repeat orders, and we do not know of a single instance where
any other covering has been used once Newall’s have been tried.
The Ultimo and White Bay Power Houses are insulated throughout with
Newall’s Coverings, and this material has also been adopted exclusively by the
N.S.W. and Victorian Governments. These are facts which will tend to fur-
ther prove our claims. The innumerable advantages of this material over all
other forms of lagging are described in interesting booklet, which we will be
pleased to mail you along with samples.
IMPWi^LL’Q
MAGNESIA SECTIOHfIL
STEAM PIPE & BOILER
COVERINGS.
J. WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt Street,
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Fturning,
Patent “ Nelyambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Ou t Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work .
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
is:::;
u „r=s
ryxa
l
v I
pf
HIGH-GRADE
MACHINE SHOP EQUIPMENT
Designed to handle to-day’s work under to-day’s conditions.
The Cisco Engine Lathe,
with QuicK Change Gears, is recommended to the busy shop requiring
a moderate-price tool. It Has been designed to secure definite savings
on your worß, having new and distinctive features that will appeal to
every Lathe user interested in COST REDUCTION.
Consider it an investment, not an expense, and write for full specification and price.
i 1
v.
.
(SL Machinery Merchant
nee
Sydney.
Australian Made.
Australian Material
Australian Labor.
Australian Owned
IP
mm p
llliS
Sfl
W
fH». AOOOTT
•Sole
Mamifadtirers:
99
6*
An Australian Production of tKe Highest Merit.
Proved by Severest
Bacteriological Tests.
AVOID TYPHOID and
HYDATIDS.
T
Filters for Hotels, Cordial
Factories, etc., a Speciality.
PRICES from
201-
r
mssssaum
,;JLJLO 9BV„ 3 Hi
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
Equitable Buildings, Sydney.
Church Cane, Melbourne.
