

MELLOWED BY AGE
. G. WATKINS «S£ CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always availa e.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
o*l all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N-5 W MONT DE PIETE D &I C? LJP
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And at Telephone: No. 225 Central.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
& 159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swaiiston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
l liJ lMfebl I
ii ■ m\
HOBAHT
NK
jjadleys Orient |jo tel.
Richardson’s
Wine 8 Spirit Stores,
68 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
158 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
«
Connoi%to»s
n
, <3*
dsf
utsau
ms
BKCOH
8f
H.B
CHUBBS
ANTI BLOWPIPE
SAFES
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
1* -
'HANSEN’S
sd
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
f
icially constructed to ensure Long
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY MELBOURNE NEWCASTLE
sdf
DRINK
sm
w
I
u
Q
□
Vw>
3
the paraffine paint
CHALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY.
AGENCIES EVERYWHERE. D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.
Old World Grace and
Refinement in Modern Homes
.
The stately and dignified appearance of old English Panelled Rooms
is easily reproduced in the Homes of To-day, with Amiwud.
Ami wild is a perfect reproduction of Hardwood, with all the
coloring and grain faithfully followed. Whether your ideas rim to
Golden Oak, Weathered Oak, Mahogany or Jenisero, you can get the
effect with Amiwud.
Hadn’t we better send you Samples and Booklets?
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T ?
I
,'WVi,
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U?
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
“QDEEN OF STATES”
choice:
BACON and HAMS.
. . ; _ ■
Telegraphic Address: BACON, Murarrie, Queensland.
HELIDON SPA
P/ease choose your et SPA ” carefully.
You may be penalised otherwise.
STARKEYS LTD,, Agents,,
Phillip St., Sydney , and Red fern
The Bulletin
Vol. 35.—N0. 1790.]
[Thursday, June 4, 1914.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


a
99
FRANCE AND ENGLAND IN '
By EDWARD JACOMB,
Barrister-at-Law, Vila, New Hebrides
This opportune book should prove of great interest to Australians. It deals with a very vital question
—whether the Anglo-French dual control should continue or the Islands be banded over to
Britain? Our interest in the Pacific has increased with the advent of the Australian Navy, and
these Islands might, at a later date, become of supreme importance by reason of their strategic
position. Every Australian should read this book.
Price ii\ Cloth, illus., 5/“ » posted 5/1*
GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP’T’Y, LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Philippine hand embroidery.
Carefully selected Waist Fronts, Beau-
tiful Designs artistically done by Native
women on finest English Pearline Lawn,
Splendid gifts, £1 each. Post paid. Satis-
faction or money back.
Pattinffell & Co., Lucena, Tayabas. P.I.
THE TRAVELLING RUG
PAR EXCELLENCE.
“fl 0 S G I E L”
RUGS.
Entirely made from
High=grade Wool.
Handsome in ... .
Appearance and
Luxuriously Comfortable.
Obtalna b I e
at all the
Best Shops. [2
Hudson’s Eumenthol Tooth Powder
The Great Antiseptic, Cleanses, Preserves and Whitens the Teeth.
The Best Safeguard against Disease is a CLEAN MOUTH AND TEETH.
Hudson’s Eumenthol TootH Powder
SECURES SOUND WHITE TEETH AND A HEALTHY MOUTH.
Some practical reasons why Hudson’s Eumenthol Tooth Powder
should be used for Cleansing and Preserving the Teeth.
BECAUSE it contains the Germicidal and Antiseptic virtues
that have made Eumenthol Jujubes famous the world over.
BECAUSE it is not only an Antiseptic and Germicide, but
cleanses mechanically, owing to the evolution of oxygen when in
contact with water or moisture.
BECAUSE it is the oxygen which whitens the teeth so wonder-
fully, and wards off decay as no other preparation for the teeth
can do, or will do, without affecting the Tooth Enamel.
BECAUSE the Committee of the British Dental Association
recommends Powder in preference to Pastes, Liquids or Soaps for
cleasing and preserving the teeth.
Sold at Chemists and Stores, price 1/6» C 3
* IJBQMOd 3Hi asn OX MOH
The Red Page
The Truth about Arnold Bennett
Years ago Arnold Bennett wrote anony-
mously The Truth About an Author. The
matter had appeared first in The Academy ;
and its appearance in book-form led to The
Athenaeum and Blackwood becoming viru-
lently cross with the author. Bennett says
that he has purposely forgotten the number
of copies sold, as it was the smallest in his
experience of infinitesimal numbers. Ulti-
mately it was “remaindered.” The Times
Book Club, having apparently become pos-
sessed of a large stock of the volumes, offered
it for sixpence a copy. “At any rate it has
been quoted from with more freedom than
any other book of mine.” And now, 12
years later, here is a new edition by Methuen
(55.), "reproducing word for word the origi-
nal text in all its ingenuous self-compla-
cency.”
Bennett admits that he has never “wanted
to write” until there was cash for his writing
in sight. The inhabitants of The Five Towns
don’t usually do anything for nothing. In his
youth he possessed three valuable qualities,
“and on these three qualities I have traded
ever since.” These are: (1) An omnivorous
and tenacious memory; (2) A naturally
sound taste in literature; (3) “The invalu-
able, despicable, disingenuous journalistic
faculty of seeming to know much more than
one does know.” “In the whole of my life
I have not devoted one day to the systematic
study of literature.”
In his free-lancing days his earnings in
the mass did not exceed 3d. an hour. But Be
spent all his spare time in absorbing French
fiction. Turgenev (in French translation),
the de Goncourts, and Maupassant were his
gods. Bennett did not regard himself as an
artist, or as emotional by temperament. His
ambition was to be a journalist merely—cool,
smart, ingenious, equal to any emergency. But
his friends insisted that he could write stories.
He tried, and won a guinea prize with his
first effort. One day his brain was visited
by a plot. He took stylistic pains over this
story, and had it accepted by The Yellow
Book. “By Heaven,” he said, “I will write
a novel.”
After two years of freelancing, he became,
“with surprising suddenness,” the assistant-
editor of a ladies’ paper. He even wrote
“Gwendolen’s Column,” and learnt a good
deal about frocks, household management
and the secret nature of women, especially
the secret nature of women. Meantime, he
wrote his novel, and got it published. His
profits on it he spent on a new hat. Then
he became editor of his weekly journal. He
even taught journalism for a couple of years.
“I have never refused work when the pay
has been good.”
Reviewing was his next activity. “I
reckon that on an average I review a book
and a fraction of a book every day of my
life, Sundays included;”
And this is how he reviews them: “I
have heard of Fleet-street hacks who regu-
larly produce 60,000 words a week; but I
well know that there are not many men who
can come fresh to a pile of new books, tear
the entrails out of them, and write a 1500-
word causerie on them, passably stylistic,
all inside 60 minutes.” Bennett is right;
there aren’t. He doesn’t trouble to read
them through : “It would be a sinfql waste
of time on the part. of a professional re-
viewer.” • He reads through one book in
50. But this applies only to novels, and
.chiefly to popular novels. “The customary
established popular author seldom or never
deviates from his appointed track, and it is
the customary established popular author
upon whom chiefly the reviewer is a para-
site.”
His next step was the writing of serials..
He had entered into a compact with him-
self that he would never “write down” to
the public in a long fiction. But when he
got the opportunity to sell a serial he tore
that solemn covenant up. He found that
by writing serials he could earn three
guineas per half-day. He even signed his
own name.
Next dramatic criticism, for six years.
Then, as usual, somebody suggested; “Why
don’t you write a play yourself?” Done.
It was produced to an audience of 30. He
was a dramatist —and he ought to have
found it out years before ! A publisher in the
audience asked him to write a little book
of one-act farces for amateurs. Bennett
wrote three such farces, giving two days to
each; “no book of mine had cost me less
trouble.” But he was after the professional
stage: he was after the earnings of success-
ful dramatists. A play was accepted; he
was commissioned, “through a friend,” to
assist in the dramatisation of a successful
novel, to compress a five-act Old English
comedy into three acts; he was invited to
the Garrick Club; he was “arriving”; he
wrote a farce in collaboration with a famous
theatrical name; he had arrived.
“I have not spoken of the artistic side of
this play-concoction, because it scarcely
has any. My aim in writing plays, whether
alone or in collaboration, has always been
strictly commercial. I wanted money in
heaps, and I wanted advertisement for my
books.” (This admirable sentiment Bennett
is careful to .explain, in a footnote, was
written in 1900 —but then all this book was
written in 1900. Bennett evidently sees that
it is no longer expedient, when you are
famous, to shock your public.)
“Unsuccessful plays are decidedly more re-
munerative than many successful novels. I
am quite certain that the vast majority of
failures produced in the West End mean
to their authors a minimum remuneration
of £l.O per 1000 words. In the fiction-mart
£lO for a thousand is gilded opulence.”
Finally in this brief narrative he became a
publisher’s reader. “In an experience not
vast, but extending over some years, only
one book with even a touch of genius has
passed through my hands ; that book was so
faulty and so wilfully wild that I could not
unreservedly advise its publication, and my
firm declined it; I do not think that the
book has been issued elsewhere. I have ‘dis-
covered’ only two authors of talent; one of
these is very slowly achieving a reputation;
of the other I have heard nothing since his
first book, which resulted in a financial
loss.”
A delightfully cynical record of interest
to every writer. Its documentary value is
vitiated by the young author’s too evident
desire to be smart. The mature Bennett
would know better.
—•—
“I wrote the book, and 1 contracted for its
publication with a reputable Sydney firm.
After they had got the work in print and
illustrations ready, religious pressure was
brought to bear, so they declined to proceed
with their contract, and informed me that
it would be difficult to get such a work pub-
lished in the Commonwealth. Consequently
I had to have it done in London.” Aaron
Hoskin makes this astounding statement in
his preface to With Other Races (Watts,
London, per Dymock’s Library). It seems
a pity that he did not approach any
other Sydney firm: Australian printing
firms are not run either by cardinals or
Wowsers. And one would like to know who
the firm was that gave Hoskin that remark-
able expression of opinion. The book itself
is a readable account of a trip around the
world, written by an Australian who ob-
served the other races with naive interest
and some acuteness of perception, but with-
out any standard of the relative importance
of things. “In all our travels,” he tells us,
“we cannot say we heard much that flattered
us. Australians do not count much in the
world’s sum of mankind, and what is known
of their country is known to its disadvan-
tage, while its undoubted advantages are
ignored.” Despite his Biblical first name,
Aaron Hoskin is 'evidently an opponent of
Christianity, or, at least, of its present offi-
cial form; and he discusses the antiquities
of' Rome and Palestine in an aggressively
agnostic spirit. Indeed, he comes to the
conclusion “that Christ was only a religious
and Socialistic crank —nothing more.” A
book eminently readable and evidently
honest.
Problems of Poicer, a study of interna-
tional politics from Sadowa to Kirk-Kilisse,
by Wm. Morton Fullerton (Constable, per
Sydney Book Club), deals exhaustively and
with dull thoroughness with the European
situation and its immediate possibilities. His
main thesis is formulated in the state-
ments that “behind the fagade of Govern-
ment two occult powers—Money and Public
Opinion—are now determining the destinies
of the world,” and that “national spirit is
manifested only when nationality is men-
aced.” A new factor, the world-wide emi-
gration of the working-man in search of
better labor conditions and a higher wage,
is shattering the illusion of a similarity of
interests uniting the working-classes in all
countries against the employer and the
capitalist. ‘‘Working men, when they gaze
from afar across the boundaries of their
several countries, look upon one another as
allies, and even as brothers ; but when they
are brought face to face they become rivals,
and then they alter their policy.” Dealing
with the Empire, Fullerton acutely stresses
a- fact whose implications are not yet
clearly seen in this continent. “Nations and
empires must have not Only a sense of
unity; they must have a symbol of unity.
Viewed from the outposts of Empire in the
seven seas, England would have been utterly
invisible if it had not been for a certain
shimmer on the far horizon which was iden-
tified as that of the splendor of the British
Crown....lt was discovered that it was
the sovereign alone who had been holding
the Empire together; that to the Dominions
the British Parliament, British statesmen,
British liberties were nothing: the Queen
and the King all. The West has found it
difficult to comprehend the feeling of the
Japanese for the Mikado. The divinity of
a Mikado, as the divinity of an Augustus,
is a notion that no longer fits into the
idioms and frames of thought of our radical
democracies. But the positive reality and
utility, the practical constitutional value of
the conception, began to dawn upon the
mind of the most unreflecting citizen of
England, as he watched the far-away
Colonies moving out on their orbits, without
need or thought of the island home, save
when they beheld a chance gleam of sun-
light on the British Imperial crown. From
having been a mere survival, from having
dwindled to a fairly futile part of the con-
stitutional machinery, a political fiction, a
mere figurehead that ‘ruled’ but did not
govern, the sovereign turned out to be the
sole, really necessarv portion of the consti-
tutional edifice, the one hope of lasting
union, the only interesting and essential
British symbol visible over the top of the
sea.” Well, personally, we always thought
that the monarch was of some sort of use.
A booklet on Australian 'Native Words , by
E. I. Watkin (Endacott. Melb.; 6d.L is not
so complete as the series of translations
from the aboriginal now running in The
Lone Hand. Probably it is not meant to
be. But if this book will brevent one
suburban naming his cottage “The Laurels,”
it will have justified its existence.
The Round Table (Macmillan, quar-
terly, 2s. 6d.) for March has comprehensive
articles upon the Ulster, squabble, the
S’African strike, and the new autocracy in
China, as well as valuable reports on im-
perial politics from the Dominions.
Fiction
The Eskimo, as a subject for romance,
does not, at first, smell promising. Yet T.
Everett Harre has utilised his novel
material admirably in The Eternal Maiden
(Ivennerley, per Dymock’s Library). Con-
sider the novelist’s disabilities in this
Eskimo world. Among the Eskimos the
distinguishing mark of feminine beauty is
fat. Especially in winter; for it is the
duty of a wife to serve as» a sort of human
radiator during the long winter to keep the
husband and the children warm. Thus a
wooer addresses g maiden: “Thou art fat
as the mother bears after a fat summer, and
thy body is warm; it giveth heat; Papik
would give thee food, and thou shalt keep
him warm during the long winter.” For a
similar reason the gentle maiden admires
in her lover the quality of stubbiness. The
most eligible suitor is lie who has a short
nose, small, flat ears, short feet and stubby
fingers. Long fingers and long feet are dan-
gerous : they are sure to get frost-bitten,
and thus cripple the owner in the chase.
“A man’s length of life can be pretty accu-
rately gauged by the stubbiness of his nose.
The degree of radiation of the human body
is such that it can prevent freezing in this
northern region only when the extremities
are short; thus a man with long feet is
almost for a certainty doomed to lose his
toes, and the most fortunate is he whose
feet and hands are short, whose nose is
stubby and whose ears are small.” The
little Eskimo women in their admiration of
stubbihess possess a crude social conscience
of high economic value. The lover wooes
his lady with meat—he brings her, on his
visits to her igloo, lumps of raw walrus
blubber. And there are no kisses amid the
ice. The Eskimo lovers merely press noses,
in the manner, of the Maori. The Eskimo,
“accustomed only to the chaste touching of a
maiden’s face, instinctively regards the kiss
of the white men as unnameably unclean.”
Yet from this material the author has
evolved a fine, story of love, endurance and
adventure. The love of the Eskimo hero
for the Eskimo maiden, the intrusion of a
white trader, who made the girl his mistress,
kicked her to his, and her, content, and
departed, the birth of her child, blind, and
the mother’s vain efforts to prevent the
tribe from destroying a life that would be
a useless burden to the existence of the
community, the devotion and .prowess of the
lover; and his death in his effort to save the
child, make a tragedy of elemental things
well worth reading.
Ten Minute Stories, by Algernon Black-
wood (Murray, per Dymock’s Library) are
clever, curious and suggesthm, but they
aren’t Algernon Blackwood. These studies
in the morbid and the psychic are brilliantly
journalistic; but they represent the mind
that wrote Jimbo and 4 Prisoner in Fairy-
land in its moments of ease, playing with
ideas that elsewhere he had seriously uti-
lised. The quality of these brief stories,
too, unfortunately varies from very, very
good to very, very bad, and when Black-
wood is very, vei’y bad, he’s horrid.
d*
The latest author to get Locke-jaw is A.
Neil Lyons. The author of Arthur's and
Clara leaves off his brilliant realism of
London, lower life-work that nearly
approaches genius in its knowledge and
sympathy and humor—-to create a fantastic
figure like Simple Simon- (Lane, per W,
Dymock, Sydney). Simon has stepped out,
temporarily, from one of the later AY. J.
Locke novels. He will doubtless be found
back at the old stand when the next Locke
appears. A. Neil Lyons places this incred-
ibly simple youth in London, wherte he
gathers about him a motley menagerie of
wasters, adventures into public life by be-
coming one of the Board of Guardians of
that peculiarly English institution, the Sil-
verside Poorhouse, really tries to help the
poor, and finally resigns his office to go
adventuring further, with his wife and his
adopted child, through England in a donkey
cart. Doubtless we shall have another
further instalment of his epic in another
Beloved Vagabond.
But, happily, A. Neil Lyons is true to
himself in his creation of the satellites of
Simple Simon Honeyball. Llere his humor
is as luscious, as unexpected, as sincere as
of yore; here he. etches with the deepest
understanding and with admirable art the
souls that flower in London’s dregs; here
he implicitly makes his damning criticisms
of the slum civilisation that is typified in
Silverside. Scenes of the richest and most
imperturbable humor are scattered through
the rambling story. Utterly delightful are,
for instance, Simon’s speeches to the Board
of Guardians, his encounters with Mrs.
Pitt-Briscoe, and his helpless love-affair.
But the author surely errs in allowing the
narrator, who is supposed to be an intelli-
gent journalist, to usurp Simon’s childish
ignorance of the world in his interview with
Mrs. Pitt-Briscoe. All through this scene it
is not the journalist but Simon speaking.
The lady is discussing the social question of
Silverside, or “the soul market,” as she
discreetly terms the awkward fact.
“What may a soul market be?”
“The soul market is not an actual thing;
it is only a pleasant way of expressing an
unpleasant thing: a state of affairs. It—
well, you must know what the soul market
is, Mr. Lambert. A man of your age, and
a journalist. . . .The soul market is merely
a refined name for the dreadful state of
prostitution which exists in England.”
My intelligence began to work at last.
“You mean that these Silverside girls”
“I mean,” interpolated Mrs. Pitt-Brisc-oe,
“that 2000 Silverside women are drawn
annually into the vortex or whirlpool of
London vice. Some go to be barmaids; some
are lured on to the stage and are forced to
exhibit themselves as singers and dancers;
some cohabit, on a sort of married footing,
with men to whom they are not legally
united; some walk the streets. All suffer
moral destruction in one form or another.
On a conservative estimate 2000 girls are
taken every year from the Borough of Sil-
verside and —and ruined.”
“But they don’t die —'these 2000? They
are not hungry or cold or ill?” I looked at
Mrs. Pitt-Briscoe, with rising hope,
“They are all alive: all well: all happy?
Then what is your trouble?”
“My trouble?, ... We are not discussing
any trouble of mine. We are discussing the
misfortune of these poor girls.”
“Misfortune!” I echoed. “I thought you
told me that they were well and warm and
had enough to eat. That’s no misfortune
for a Silverside girl.”
“But —but their occupations, Mr, Lam-
bert : their behavior: their lives.”
“Oh. of course,” I was forced to admit,
“they lead an unconventional sort of life.”
“Unconventional! You mean a dreadful
life: a degraded life: a life of sin.”
I felt sure that Mrs. Pitt-Briscoe was
teasing me; but I pretended not to notice
it. I smiled at her in a really kind way,
and I said
“Oh, but, dear lady, one doesn’t talk of
sin at our age. Now, does one? These
girls are happier than all the ordinary girls
in Silverside, aren’t they? They have
plenty to eat and plenty to wear and some-
body to kiss them. Isn’t that splendid?”
But I had made a mistake. Mrs. Pitt-
Briscoe wasn’t teasing at all.
•
The Private Papers of Henry Ryecroft,
by Gissing, Audrey and Sir Mortimer, by
Mary Johnston, and Selected Poems by,
George Meredith, are now issued by Con-
stable for Is. each.
The object of his essay, The Coming
Peaceful Revolution (Endacott, Melb.: 6d.),
William Mclntosh explains as : “The writer’s
humble endeavor to co-operate with all
others who are trying to discover an effi-
cient means of bringing peace and goodwill
to all mankind.” Someone tried to do that
19 centuries ago, and if William Mclntosh
has any better luck he deserves it. He
declares that if there is anything that will
put the world right it is Charity, and not
any religious faith or doctrine.
The Athenaeum’s judgment, with which
this* page ' has already, in more polite lan-
guage, concurred, of Kathleen Watson’s
Later Litanies, and lAtanies of Life.
(Ileinemann, 2s. 6d.) “It is impossible- to
guess why the word Litany should have
been chosen for these wordy, shallow and
sentimental laments. We had thought the
taste for self-centred and feebly irreligious,
moanings had gone with the passing of the
century, so that this book comes like some-
thing which is born out of its right time, if
indeed there was ever a right time for such.
If the author desires to make a moving
recital out of exiguous materials, we recom-
mend to her careful study some such con-
summate instance as Maupassant’s La
Ficelle ; it will prove better equipment for
that most difficult among hard achievements,
the short story, than a plenitude of senti-
ment and an abundance of adjectives:”


Gatjjoayfafdefasfije
THE WINTER FASHIONS AT ANTHONY HORDERNS’
W9s
TOO
Vi
230
250/,
V/ffS
295.
59/0
$5/9
54/6
2406
63/-
Send
for
Autumn
and
Winter
Fashion
Book
post free
on
request
jWLnu HnrrWns’fiftaJiiioWearCosLei
SR
c/n
S «N
B?nfs
No. 2406. Smart Coat and Skirt Costume, Of Brown Heather mixed Tweed, Coat lias
Collar and Cuffs of Black Astrachan, with Red pipings; Skirt trimmed shaped Seams and
Buttons 637-
No. 2953. Coat and Skirt Costume, Of Black and White Shepherd’s Check; Coat lined
Red Satin, has Black Satin Collar and Cuffs; three-piece Skirt with broad-lapped seam forming
V at foot 55/9
No. 21168. Coat and Skirt Costume, in smart Donegal Tweeds of Brown, Grey, or Blue
Heather mixtures; Coat has facings of Silk, and Self Strappings; four-piece Skirt, lapped seam
back and front 42/-
No. 25016. — Pretty Coat and Skirt Costume, Of soft. Cheviot Serge, in Navy, Grey,
Saxe, Tan or Black; two-piece Skirt trimmed Self straps, piped contrasting shade of Velvet to
correspond with Coat 34/6
No. 25005. Coat and Skirt Costume, Of rough Cheviot Serge, in Grey, Pawn or Tan, with
Collar, Cuffs and strapping at waist, of Black Satin; Skirt has lapped seams down centre front,
widening at foot, finished large Black and White Buttons corresponding with Coat 39/6
IVT 001-7/1 ,Useful Robe Costume, in Black Poplin, new set-in long Sleeves, side front
NO -fS^ l *tr£ e£ Ss q^vta? B Sf%ect, finished loop Buttons, Skirt has lapped -ms
1111 Attractive Robe, in fine Whipcord Serge, new Raglan Sleeve, Collar and Buttons
N Smed back Cuffs, front fastening, four-piece Skirt with shaped lap seams.
Navy, Mole and Cinnamon
XTr, or:oo /o Verv Durable Robe, of Navy Rough Serge, Bodice has Raglan effect wi
N lonf S sK?es, tLed down Collar of Persian Pan Velvet, front fastening, trimmed Satin Buttons,
four-piece Skirt finished lap seams
v - D n i,p of Fancy Tweed, suitable for good hard wear. Bodice has Raglan effect,
American Collar with Velvet Tie in contrasting shades, the Skirt has wide lap fold, an is open
in scallop style at sides ; Brown and Blue Mixtures ' ‘‘' .
IVo An Effective Style, in Habit Cloth, Magyar Bodice with set-m three-quart
INO. An Mietuve oiyre, of the new Broche Pan Velvet, shaped
Sleeves” CollarT Buttons and let-in piece on Sleeves are of the new
lap seam on Bodice, finished Lace Jabot, four-piece Skirt has lap seams back and
Black, Fawn, Brown
An fh o n i|
Horderns’
67
fO3
10/6
14-/6
2/6
■
■ <2
C4O
12/6
t&6
2620
10/61
Skirfs
It
faithfully
presents
all that
is new
in the
World of
Dress.
Five Charming Designs at
Anthony" Horderns’.
IC
554
63/
2181
2579
59/6
22
57/6
2021
67/6
75/
No. 157. Neatly Designed Skirt, in Black and Navy fine Coating Serge, with broad lapped
stitched seams at sides, trimmed Black Silk Buttons, Empire waist 22/6
No. 33. Useful Costume Skirt, in Brown or Grey Tweed, four-piece, high waisted, with
wide pleat down centre front and back, shaped at foot, finished bone buttons ... 10/6
No. 1200.—Stylish Coat and Skirt Costume, of fine All Wool Coating Serge, Navy or
Black, Coat lined Silkette, shaped seams at back, Black Satin collar, and tailor buttons, four-
piece Skirt, lapped seams back and front, special value 37/ 6
No. 103.—Stylish Cheviot Serge Skirt, steel Grey, Alt Wool, well cut and finished. Self
folds, trimmed Grey Silk buttons and braid loops, Empire waist 14/6
No. 130. — Nicely Cut Skirt, in Black or Navy fine Coating Serge, with shaped lap seams at
front and back, finished Pearl buttons, slightly gathered into strap at back 16/9
No. 203. Well-CUt Four-piece Skirt, with shaped stitched folds, back and front, finished
Silk buttons, Empire waist, in Navy or Black Cheviot Serge 14/6
No. G4o. — Neatly Cut Skirt, in Brown Heather Mixture Tweed, shaped lap seams at front,
with new gathered waist effect 16/6
No. 2520. — Smart All Wool Cheviot Serge Skirt, three-piece, scalloped at sides,
Empire waist, Navy and Black 10/6
No. 332. — Heather Mixture Tweed Skirt, well cut and finished, with double lap seams back
and front, trimmed bone buttons, Empire waist, in Light and Dark Green shades only.. 12/6
All Skirts stocked 37in. to 44in. lengths, 22in. to 28in. waists. Out sizes, 2/6 extra.
No 22021.—C0at and Skirt Costume, Of All Wool Grey Cheviot Serge, effectively trimmed
with Black Satin and Dome Buttons and lap seams, high-waisted Skirt
No. 31813. —An Effective Coat and Skirt, In All-Wool MM
waistwith fold*! Satin and smart ends at back, the Collar and Cuffs are of the new Broche
Pan Velvet high-waisted Skirt finished with shaped lap seams; in Navy, mack, Tan^and
Pawn
TNT ooot c TP0,.,. noth Coat and skirt, in new Russian style, fastened to the
N °'thf?Jt 4 and finished necklet of Black Foxaline Fur, lap seams and self Buttons lined fancy Silk
Polonaise, four-piece Skirt, with shaped lap seams and Self Buttons ; m Mole, Navy, and
TNT B oKKyi An A ftra nti ve Walking Costume, in Granite Tweed Mixture, Collar, Cuffs,
N °‘ Buttons' \t back are in Black Velvet, Revers and Belt of Self, lined Broche Polonaise,
toe very smart Skirt has shaped lap seams, finished Velvet Buttons and Buttonholes ; in Grey,
No G 2s79.—Smart Walking Coat and Skirt Costume, in striped Heather Mixture
„ T-,-. ,1 .. .1 Tirifh camp in shfln
Tweed, Collar is of Cloth and Buttonholes piped with same in and. Buttons
oflelf, lined Silk Polonaise, high-waisted Skirt has shaped lap seams, finished piped Buttonholes
and Self Buttons; in Brown, Fawn and Grey »</
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Bricßfield Hill*
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


... TRADE MARK REG IN U. S. PAT. OFF.
AND THROUGHOUT THE WORLQ
Why
The Halo Of Quality Surrounds
WINCHESTER
Rifle and Pistol Cartridges
Except the powder, everything that goes into Winches-
ter Cartridges is made in the Winchester plant. The
metal for the shells is kept exactly right by chemical
analysis and physical tests. The powder used must
show stability and proper pressure and velocity. The
primers must be sure fire, and each lot of finished cart-
ridges must pass a shooting test for accuracy. This
system of manufacture, coupled with the most complete
facilities and years of experience, has made Wihchester
Cartridges unequalled for quality and in popularity.
The W brand cost only a few cents more a box than in-
ferior cartridges while they are dollars better., They are
MADE BY THE MAKERS OF WINCHESTER GUNS
The Starrett Level
and Transit 99 B,
For , Farmers, Builders,
Contractors ■ 80s.
Farmers, as a rule, have most of the latest tools ,and implements for
doing farm work, but rarely will you find a levelling instrument
included in the kit—simply because they do not care to pay the
price usually charged for a surveyors’ or engineers’ level and transit.
The result is that jobs needing a level have been done by guesswork,
and therefore unsatisfactorily.
sd
The Starrett 99 B gets you out of
the difficulty. The price complete with
long legs and sight tube is hut 80/-
Starrett 99 B guarantees ac
curacy on all kinds of drainage, under-
drainage, irrigation work, terracing
land, road making, setting out orchards,
grading of all kinds, fencing, getting
angles, and every farm job requiring
such an instrument. Your neighbours
would gladly hire it from you at times.
The Starrett 99 B is also for architects, carpenters, and contrac-
tors to lay out building sites, and to determine the levels : for masons
and millwrights in the construction of foundation and the setting of
water wheels, building of dams and raceways.
The surveyor will find this superior to the ordinary needle compass,
for any angles may be taken where, from local attraction, it would be
impossible to set them off with the needle.
There is nothing like The Starrett 99 B for the money. It is
made of finest materials—the body is of iron and brass, tripod of
iron, the sight tube, level case, and graduated arcs, nickel-plated ;
ail other parts are japanned. Packed weight about lolbs.
Full instructions for use sent with each instrument.
We also sell No. 99 F, with telescope, long legs, and ground and
graduated level glass— £.7 lO -
Levelling Instrument only, No. 101^-46/-
We sell “ Labor-Savin!? ” Tools of every
conceivable kind at Money-Saving Prices.
Ask for detail of "Ivvan” Post Hole Dig-
gers. Earth Scoops, Farm Saw benches,
“ Iron Age” Tools, etc
MSPlTerson^
Proprietary Ltd.
Tool Merchants,
554-66 & 582-88 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
E
T HC us. STAB»ITT
EES
o
Great B.S.A. Victory
In the Pari?-Nice Trials, 667 miles—the most important International
Motor Cycling Event—the B.S.A. Motor Bicycle, in competition with
all the best British and Foreign Machines, sweeps the board and
proves that the wonderful B.S.A. with the new B.S.A. three-
speed counter-shaft gear, gives ample power for Sidecar work.
FRENCH PRESIDENT’S PRIZE
Again Won
on a . .
BSA
Ridden by
M. BERGER
MOTOR BICYCLE with SIDECAR
SECOND YEAR IN SUCCESSION
M.C.U. of France Prize won by M. Delaune on a 8.5. A.; MOBILOILS PRIZt
won by M. Delaune on a 8.5. A.; GOLD MEDAL won by M. Delaune on a
B.S.A. (Sidecar); SILVER MEDAL won by M. Isodi on a B.S.A. (Solo);
SILVER MEDAL won by M. Berger on a B.S.A. (Sidecar).
B.S.A. Only Team of Three arriving at Nice
OUT OF 41 STARTERS only FOUR completed the journey witnout loss
of marks. M. Delaune on a h.p. B.S.A. with sidecar was one of them.
Local Agents: MILLEDGE BROS., Sydney.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY NORPCRN <a SONS LTD.,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRADE MARK
SI’LEX DID 5.8.8. L. GUX T , 12 gauge, choke bore, kills ut extra long range.
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/C. D.8.8.L. GUN, lilted with
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified steel barrels,
walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN EXCELLENT
KILLER. Holiday Price, £B/10/- D.8.8.L. GUN, choke and modified steel
barrels. Government Tested. THE FARMER’S FRIEND. Special Price,
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 22 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice and
light. A very accurate little weapon. THE YOUTH’S FAVORITE. Holiday
Price, 14/6. CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent ejector. Takes .22
long, .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best sellers. Holiday
Price, 18/6. Write for Our Catalogue.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Largest Importers of Arms and Ammunition in the Commonwealth
242-4 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
/VNTISEPTIC THROAT
I
These wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles are made to
a formula of the Liverpool Throat Hospital, and act like a
charm in keeping the voice and throat in perfect condition
for prolonged vocal exercise.
Used by the Leading Singers throughout the world. The
celebrated Madame Tetrazzini writes: “I thank you for the
boxes of Evans’ Pastilles sent me, which I find excellent and
efficacious.”
Sole Manufacturers — CHEMISTS.
EVANS SONS LESCHER 8 WEBB LTD., LONDON.
Ask for “EVANS’ ” Pastilles, and see you get them. [1
m
u
gyros
nrrnttlM
When you are buying Socks and Stockings, look for
the name on the foot. If it isn’t there
don’t have them, they are not what you require.
For no other hose have the same combination of good qualities
that "sa4eT£ possess. All-Australasian-wool, perfectly
knitted, *** rendered absolutely unshrinkable and as soft
as silk by the Aprif process—those are the qualities uou
want in your hose. “fieMOTIU cost
no more than any other kind, so that
it costs you nothing to have the best.
“JlttMTl' f ' Socks and Stockings arc made in
** all styles and prices for men,
ladies and children. If your dealer does
not stock them, insist upon his getting them
for you.
In case of difficulty, write
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
Aa3B
Socks and
Stockings.
r,%
9,9
•*
<i>
INCORPORATED 18S8 BY SPECIAL ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD. 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES, ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc.
Trustee and Administrative Work of Every Description.
Estates and Properties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Full Details on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.


DON'T NEGLECT
I YOUR HAIR
Your looks demand that you
should take care of it, make
it more beautiful, more lus-
trous, softer; you can easily
and readily do so by using
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR
OIL
which nourishes, strengthens,
nurtures, and promotes the
growth of Fine Silky Hair;
you will notice an improve-
ment from the first time you
use it. Use it for your own
and your Children’s Hair;
Golden Colour. lor Fair Hair. •
Sold in three sizes by Stores,
Chemists, and Rowland’s,
67, Hatton Garden, London.
Avoid cheap imitations under,,
the same or similar name.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS
f
, Packed Free. Carriage Paid direct from
our Factory to your Port. Ten Days' Free
Trial . Best British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters. Variable-Speed Gears,
B.S.A, Free Wheel.*., Flyer or Brook's
Saddles, etc.
I
mod!S
£3.10 to £9
Pyres and accessories at half usual p ricec.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, fo*
Free Art Catalogue and special
Offer on sample machine.
Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE
Dept. A 282
COMPANY,
LIVERPOOL.
AGENT for
VAL. U. COLE
LARGE STOCKS ON
MEAD CYCLES-
Book Arcade, Melbourne.
HAND. ALL MODELS
LETTERS COPIED WHILE WRITING
(in ink) by using: your own Letter-paper_
with this Book. You' slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing you
secure a perfect letter and a
perfect copy. There is no
df
d
ď
-ism of copying. 400 octavo Bin. x sin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/200 Book, size lOa x
f-3, post free 4/6; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
ini' 0/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making’ 200
copies, Bin. x siir., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/0.
Kanv.de of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper which
produces this result, free if stamped-addressed
envelope sent'to S. B. Zanetic, Leicester, England.
Zanetic goods obtainable from Sands & McDougall,
Ltd.. Collins Street West, Melbourne, and Branches
at Adelaide and Perth.
ELEY
t CARTRIDGES i
Always Reliable
We have been manufactur-
ing ammunition since the
early years of the last
century, and no ammuni-
tion manufacturer or loader
handles or loads a greater
variety of shot gun powders,
consequently our experi-
ence of the styles of pow-
ders and the specificationsof
loads which give the great-
est satisfaction to sports-
men is second to none.
ELEY Cartridges contain the
standard loads of powder and
m
m
15m
fR®
TiHj LM
«S 3
»
IA
IP
lifi
shot as marked on
boxes. Shooters
should beware of
all Cartridges the
loads of which
are not specified
on the boxes.
Eley Cartridges are
obtainable from al'.
C unin akcrs &Dealers.
Agent:
Albert Adams,
420, George Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
Elcy Bros.
Limited
London
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES
■list wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSONS
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
i|id you’ll have the skin healed and healthy
rj|icke% with any other ointment on earth.
KyervoJ*®'says so who has used it. Write for a
t ; jn .posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
Bonnington’s
Jubes
For the VOICE *
THROAT (SL LUNGS
Possess many of the unique and valuable curative properties of Bonnington’s Irish Moss.
They afford immediate relief in ease of Sore or Relaxed Throat, Loss of Voice. Iluskiness,
Spasmodic Cough. Bronchial Trouble etc. Whilst soothing and antiseptic in their action,
these Jubes are entirely free from all poisonous or other harmful substances.
-S
kic'
»fr
V?
A PLEASANT AND EFFECTIVE COUCH PASTILLE
SUITABLE FOR BOTH ADULTS AND CHILDREN
BONNINGTON’S .TUBES are highly recom-
mended for u«e by Public Speakers and
Singers. The Travelling Public will also And
them Ihe best ilnd most convenient Throat
Pastille. SOLD EVERYWHERE
Price, 1/3 per tin
If not obtainable locally, send price in
stamps to
Bonnington &, Co., Ltd.
17U HARRIS STREET - - SYDNEY
RUNKENNESS CURED
Anv lndv can cure the most violent drunkard secretly—at lanne. (101,01.\
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can l>e taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It totally eradicates all craving 'for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathv to alcohol .in a. few weeks. Send 2d. stamp for FREE
SAM PLE and full particulars, or, if you desire to commence treatment
without delay, send 10/0 for supply.
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., Dept B. 2011, Pitt Street- Sydney.
s«.VV MS
1 !KV<
km
•&A%
Can be Developed to Normal.
It matters not if you liavo been thin and seraggl.v for years, even if you
never were properly developed your measurements can be increased to normal
and your figure nicely rounded out to pleasing, plump proportions. It is
done every day for others—why not you '!
Manager. I'alliere Co. llekeia, N.Z.
I)ear Sir. —I am well pleased with the results from using l-'lesh-
Food and the general improvement in my condition, for which
I thank you very much indeed, for my husband and 1 are both
well pleased.
From the very beginning 1 improved wonderfully—the giddiness that had bothered
me for years disappeared, as did the rheumatism from my legs. Both of these
troubles had caused me much severe suffering.
My limbs were thinnest, and they began to noticeably increase first of all, ending
in a nine-inch increase in my hip measurement. A general development now became
noticeable, and my chest and bust filled out.
I had now gained all I needed—a full stone In weiglit. As I, have lost .neither
weight nor measurements since stopping the treatment, I consider the results- per-
Yours very truly, MKS. H. HODGES.
Flesh-Food is totally harmless in every respect. Its efficacy is beyond question, and its
use is no demand upon the subject’s time. Many cases have gained up to six pounds a week,
and an increase in bust measurement up to eight and .ten inches is possible. Flesh-Food offers
relief and development to the thousands of chronically thin women who have despaired of ever
possessing a presentable figure. It is a nerve and tissue food treatment thit adds weight and
permbrient development to attenuated women. Guarantee given in every- case accepted.
Let us send
you a Free
Sample.
TRIAL SAMPLE FREE,
We publish an interesting book on the
subject of attenuation and development
and will send same andra Free Sample Treatment to you
upon receipt of a 2d.: stamp to pay part postage. All
treated ,aS strictly confidential.
FRICK OF CHARGE
communications are
(1823)
FALLIKKE KLESH-lOOD CO., 1103 ASH STREET,
SYDNEY.
THE CAN-MAKING INDUSTRY!
SANITARY—SIMPLE
EFFECTIVE—RAPID.
The Entire Top Open.
u
mi
C NTEUPKISING PRESERVE OANNERS in every part of the world
‘—'have come to realise that the old. slow, unsanitary lhethod of
manufacturing and sealing cans by. hand with poisonous solders is ob-
solete.
That is why the MAX AMS SANITARY CANNING MACHINERY
-is being used by the world’s leading canners. If you are using cans
ior packing preserves, fruits, vegetables, or in fact any food product, the
SANITARY, SOLDERLESS, HERMETICALLY SEALED CANS
made by these machines will save you time, money and labor.
No. . r >B and No. 08 Automatic Double Seamcrs will seal can tops on
bodies ljin,‘ high and 2in. in diameter up to 1 gallon and over. The
scope in the range of possible ciimges is. instantly appreciated.
No adjusting or'fussing, or mechanical skill required. Can be riin
by boy or girl.
These machines are 15Y NO MEANS’ confided to any PARTICULAR
CLASS of cans. The operation of those Seainers is SIMPLE. The
cans are automatically conveyed to the baseplate with the cover, and
INSTANTLY the CAN engages the. rollers, making a CLEAN and tight
DOUBLE SEAM.
We Furnish Complete Outfit for Making These Cans.
For full particulars write to the
MAX AMS MACHINE CO.
MT. VERNON, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
OR THROUGH ANY EXPORT COMMISSION HOUSE.
Tobacco
mv
Kills!
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco-Habit if
they kn e w they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you. under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, "The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces." Write for particulars and Book te-day.
H. SINCLAIR <Eb CO.,
Dept. Q,
107 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY. [4.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have yon grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. 'The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
tlie reach of all. Csn vou ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women <k children,
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collin*.st., Melbourne, Vic.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austra-
lasian. (id. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia. and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Heading Room at the offices. 115 High Ilnl-
born, London. W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Excuse.
I know not why you should complain
Of Marjorie or Kate;
I may have loved, but did not wed
Those girls at any rate.
There is no reason you should sigh
Or vow that I’m untrue.
It only means I did not try
A 'prentice love on you.
How could 1 an inconstant be
To you before I knew
How lovelier than all others were
The attributes of you !
Believe me. dear; that at the worst
My perfidy is such
I could not love you, dearest, more,
Loved I not others much.
N.S.W.
HAMER.
Chant Major.
Not in the dull, glum, wearisome numbers
that tutor the soul to mourn.
Should we go singing in days that are com-
ing—no more of the chant forlorn;
But a new song in the spirit of summer, a
lavish and opulent lay
Of flowers upspringing, of melodies ringing,
and life spinning gaily away.
Then shall a cadence of rhythmic intricacies
draw the sad heart from its lair.
Setting the drums of its pulses to harmony,
solving and clearing its care;
Leading it out of its caverns inscrutable into
the warmth of the noon.
To feet tripping lithely and songs running
blithely, where being is counted a boon.
Let us give over the morbid, the tragic, the
tale that is garnished with tears;
Respite the muse of the doleful Melpomene;
turn to a theme that, cheers;
Leaving the skeletons snug in their sepul-
chres. hiding the spectres away—
They heed not our wailing who rest in the
railing that bounds their dominion of
clay!
Still the earth prospers with buds of new
promise, and ever are young things
born —
Rosy perfections wholly untarnished, and
fresh with the dews of morn;
Spirited, vigorous, innate with happiness,
filled with the sap of the spring—
And summer comes' after, red-ripe in her
laughter, with every desirable thing.
Not the grim deeds of some sorrowful story,
a ballad of shame or blood,
Should we go singing in days that are com-
ing; but paeans of field and flood —
Youth’s succession and beauty’s renewal, the
music that makes for mirth —
For great is the treasure, and full is the
measure, of goodly things on the earth !
VICTORIA.
C. G. A. COLLES.
The Cads’ Column.
Mr. J. Quogpigge, J.P., has sat continuously on
the Melbourne Bench for 94 years.
Mrs. Watteau, of Toorak, has gone to Macedon
for a few days.
The Dean of Boghole has returned from Footscray.
Councillor Squibkins has gone to Tasmania for a
holiday. —Any daily paper any day.
When I hear the Pitt-street caller howl “The
country’s gone to pot!”
When I hear the Wimmin’s League complain
of “Women’s ruined lives,”
When I read the morning paper’s wail of
national dry rot
And its curses of the democrats, their chil-
dren and their wives—
It is but another proof to me that Toryism’s
dead,
Self-murdered by its snobbery that’s acted —
spoken—read.
By the Brisbane and the Yarra and the Tor-
rens sluggish streams,
By Swan River and the Tamar and the salt
of Sydney Cove,
They are clamant and insistent for the lime-
light of their dreams—
The snobs who use the daily press to say
they have “arrove.”
The chiefs of staff do curse them —the sub-
editorial prayers
Are not for those with paragraphs who wear
out Argus stairs.
They who’d revive the" dying difference of
class and class.
Who read the papers hungrily to see their
little names.
Who with their fiat feet from the stairways
wear the lead and brass
A-climbing up with rotten pars that merit
but the flames—
Mrs. Watteau who has bought a railway fare
of two-and-three—
And flatfoot Mr. Squibkins sailing boldly on
the sea.
Of Quogpigge acting of the goat since eight-
een-twenty-one.
Of the Dean of Boghole preaching to the
smells of Williamstown.
And at the tidings in his tracks falters the
splendid sun.
And the white moon staggers in her path and
the Southern Cross goes down ;
And the lesser planets reel and sicken to a
lambent ray.
For Watteau of Toorak is up at Macedon
to-day.
The mean-faced slant-eyed climber, he makes
short the reader's years—
Self-advertising folk give to the Age a sul-
phurous smell —
The swollen village fatsmith is reduced to
bitter tears
And believes the country’s mined and is
going straight to Ilell.
When the weak-brained daily papers fail to
sing the dismal lay
That a daring bloke named Squibkins goes
to voyage in the bay.
x.s.w.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


aron
CIGARETTES.
For the after-dinner smoke, between the acts at the
theatre, or at any time during the day, you’ll find
Sai'ony Cigarettes most satisfying and enjoyable. Mild
in flavor.
In Turkish or Virginia.
All Leading Tobacconists.
Manufactured by
NICOLAS SARONY 8 CO.,
New Bond Street, London, W.
•>
fd
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
Lister-Bruston” Automatic
Electric Lighting Plant.
What Are You Doing
for Light in Your Public
Hall This Winter?
Are you going to keep on with the old-
fashioned, unhealthy and expensive methods,
or will the Hall be splendidly and economi-
cally lit with Electricity?
This Plant (as illustrated complete) gener-
ates Electricity automatically. The Engine
and Dynamo start themselves as soon as the
lights are switched on. No costly Battery
is needed—the lights are lit direct from the
Dynamo.
The Plant is self-contained—is low in cost,
and delivered practically ready for connecting
up to the Hall Wiring.
May we talk it over with your Committee? Write to us about it.
AGENTS: N.S.W.—W. Q. WATSON & CO., LTD., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
VIC.—SUTHERLAND & ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—CLUTTERBUCK BROS., Adelaide.
fd
y)o Yon Long for a Fall Moustache?
Why not use the sure
moustache producer,
which gives good
results —
CAPILLARINE?
This splendid preparation has been 30 years on the market, and never fails
to give satisfaction.
You can develop a splendid moustache no matter how poor the hair growth
on your upper lip may be.
SEND FOR A JAR TO-DAY—IO/6 JAR, post free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each Post Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG <2L AITKEN
654 George Street, Sydney-
Established 30 Years.
Cf pH .
f
LAGER
Possesses distinctive qualities—it
is a delightfully refreshing, in-
vigorating and nourishing Lager
—valuable as a food for Nursing
Mothers, Invalids, etc apart from
its high-grade merit as a light
beverage.
OBTAINABLE at all FIRST-CLASS
CLUBS, HOTELS, RESTAURANTS,
etc.
The “TITAN”
Hot-Water Bag'
is not a luxury but a necessity for cold nights. One of these bags placed
between the sheets shortly before retiring is an absolute cUrb fbr cold feet
and sleepless nights. Made in numerous sizes:—-
'“Titan” bags are sold by all leading chemists and storekeepers throughout
Australia, and a printed guarantee for Two Seasons is attached to each bag.
If unable to obtain one of these bags locally send your order direct to us.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Send for a copy of our New List, No. 35, illustrating H.W. Bags, Macintoshes,
“Watershed” Oilskins, Goloshes, Rubber Boots, Tennis Shoes, Horse Rugs,
etc. Post Free on request.
tfyidlA&i Rubber Co. Ltd.,
270 George Street, Sydney .
67a Gciw/er P/aee, Adelaide.
105 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
307 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
SNI-NOLEUM
MAKES
POLISHING
The first time you use SHI*NOLEUM
you will be delighted with the Polish
it gives to your Linoleums and Furniture.
It is so easy to use that without
any effort you can
Do your Polishing
in half usual time
and do it better, too.
SHI-NOLEUM is also a great
preserver—TßY A TIN TO-DAY
—Beware of Imitations —they are
not offered for your benefit.
I
2\
moh
The Chinese use this
Symbol to express
Completeness.
€
The perfect balance—the
unbroken circle—these de-
note unity The symbol
stands for something that
is absolutely self-contain-
ed and complete, which
means—
Le Blond Universal Grinders
For Engineers, Motor Repairers and others using Milling Machines,
For GRINDING and SHARPENING ANYTHING and EVERYTHING.
Cylindrical, internal, face and angular work, such as face mills, end mills, reamers, counterbores,
circular saws, snap gauges, internal gauges, gear cutters, rose reamers, flat surfaces, formed cutters,
either cylindrical or flat, jig bushes, mandrels and practically all other tool-room grinding.
Range, 16in. x BJin. x 6 Jin. Capacity between centres, Bin. dia. x 17in. long.
With Universal Attachment cutters up to ISin. dia. can be ground.
Write, ’phone, or call on
BENSON BROTHERS LIMITED,
Who are Sole Agents and carry a full stock of all classes of
Engineers’ Machine Tools,
51-53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY. 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 35. —IS o. 1790.
THURSDAY, JUNE 4, 1914.
Prick Bd.
AWAKE, ARISE!
Australia should aim just as much at being mistress of her own air as she is of her own land and sem Gen. lan Hamilton.
THE BOY: “I reckon, old bird, you’ll have to learn to fly.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: { JJg S9O.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
£L 6s. 6d. per Annum, including Special
Christmas Number, post paid.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings and Sixpence Sterling you can have
The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves') by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention ,
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
. Hite Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say. 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin, will return all unsuitable MS. when
. the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good-idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Lapetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada .—Thomson Stationery Co.', Vancouver,
8.L.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1,1,1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Lai., Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
J9th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, USA
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong.—brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.— W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo. ’
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents bn
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs
Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at
1,f6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6§iw.
x iMn., and gelatine transparencies will be for-
warded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) .-—Throughout the Commonwealth, New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz., \d.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route 160 z., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed m each packet — otherwise: Boz., Id Bioz
10oz 2id.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, ioz.'.
la., and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JUNE 4, 1914.
THE PLAYHOUSE OF THE SOUTHERN
SEAS.
Last week the Federal Government’s Prefer-
ence Abolition Bill was summarily flung out
of the Senate, after its third reading had
been carried by the casting vote of the
Speaker in the Representatives. Were its
authors downhearted ? Far from it! In
the words of one of the Liberal dailies, “the
Prime Minister could not conceal his jubi-
lation at the turn which events had taken.”
Also, “the news of the defeat of the Bill in
the Senate was received by Ministerialists
with considerable hilarity.” Cook and his
followers were as unaffectedly delighted over
the downfall of their measure as a welshing
stable is when its horse, which was never
meant to win, is stopped with such art that
the. stewards are unable to take hostile
action. Unless a cataclysm of some sort
occurs, the Government will discuss its
■Bill to restore postal voting some time this
week. It no more wants this measure to be
earned than it did the other. As a matter
01 tact, both of them are quite unnecessarv
from every standpoint. Unionists are not
getting preference from the present Govern-
ment —unless, indeed, they are getting it in
the neck. Under the existing regime what-
ever preference is going tends in the direc-
tion of the “free” laborer. The agitation to
restore postal voting is bogus, inasmuch as
the Electoral Act already makes full provi-
sion for enabling sick persons to vote. The
abounding merit of a Bill to restore postal
voting, in the eyes of the Cook Ministry,
lies in the fact that it is certain to be re-
jected by the Senate. If Joseph Cook was
unable to conceal his jubilation when his
Preference measure met its end, the death
of his Postal Vote Bill will, therefore, cause
him to well-nigh burst with joy. He will
have brought off the double. He will have
achieved defeat twice. In the language of
the prize .ring, two schlenter contests will
stand to his credit. For many weary weeks
the Representatives debated the Preference
Abolition Bill. In the course of these weari-
some and superfluous proceedings members
commandeered each other’s bedding—the
exigencies of the situation demanding that
the legislators should sleep on the premises : —
and an aged statesman howled with grief to
find that his pillow had been reft from him.
In his frenzy he smote the purloiner furi-
ously with the head-rest. Also, someone
hid the imitation Mace with which the House
upholds its dignity, and another irre-
pressible wag stole Speaker Johnson’s
notes. In brief, all was merriment,
and arch, light-hearted playfulness. And
now the farce is to begin again in connection
with the Government’s Bill to restore postal
voting—which Bill, as aforementioned, the
Government has no desire to see carried, and
which is, furthermore, completely superfluous.
It seems as certain as anything can be
in the chancy game of electioneering, that
the constituencies are opposed to preference
to unionists and to the abolition of the postal
vote. The average elector still fails to
grasp that preference to unionists is a move
in the direction of industrial peace—a scheme
to create a lever by which the workers will
be forced either to obey Arbitration Court
awards or to pay a cash penalty. The aver-
age elector has likewise a dogged, unreasoning
hankering after the postal vote, though it
has been explained to him on countless occa-
sions that the detail machinery of the Elec-
toral Act fully provides for the sick and
invalid vote. The Cook party has no con-
structive policy worth mentioning, but it is
a whale on opposing things. Long practice
has rendered Federal Liberalism a world’s
champion at the art of objecting to what
somebody else has done or intends to do. It
is now faced with a situation that might
have been made for it by some faithful
friend. It is in office; and, inasmuch as a
party achieves office, mostly, not by reason
of its own virtues, but owing to the tactical
errors of its opponents, it is there probably
because the Fisher party stood, at last
elections, for preference to unionists and the
abolition of the postal vote, among other
things. It has succeeded in making these
worn old issues the issues for the next gen-
eral election, whenever the latter transpires,
and they are also the issues on which the
Governor-General will be asked to grant a
double dissolution. From an electioneering
standpoint the Cook party may be said,
accordingly, to have engineered itself on to
a good wicket. It gets there from all angles,
so to speak. It will enjoy the advan-
tages of entering the fray while holding
office; it is not hampered by the possession
of a policy, hence it is immune from
criticism ; and finally it proposes to wage a
battle which should be won —the issues being
what they are —before a blow has been
struck. The Ministry doesn’t mind how
long the Opposition opposes its bogus Postal
Vote Bill, because the longer the hold-up
lasts the longer it will retain the screws
and perquisites of office. Conversely, when
the Bill is deposited on the rubbish heap the
Ministry will be pleased, since it never in-
tended that anything else should occur.
Assuming that the Governor-General grants
a double dissolution the Cook party will
therefore have a hope—one of the forlonest
hopes on record, but still a hope—of a
majority in both Houses and the retention
of office on terms satisfactory to a set of
self-respecting human beings. Failing a
majority in the Senate it may retain its
majority in the Representatives; in which
case there will be nothing to prevent it from
holding office for another year, and then
trotting out the harried old Preference and
Postal Vote issues for a further airing. And
so the imbecility may be prolonged in-
definitely.
* * * *
One party and one only is really preju-
diced by all this impudent manoeuvring—a
natural outcome of our idiotic old sys-
tem —and that is the public, which has to
pay for it. A general election costs the country
several thousands of pounds sterling in hard
cash, and a great deal more in dislocation of
trade, waste of time, police-court proceedings
in connection with election rows and drunks,
and wear and tear to the body politic gener-
ally. In compliance with the rules of the
party game Cook has to seek a double disso-
lution, though it is conceivable that if he
had his way, he would be well enough pleased
to adopt the other alternative—namely,
to sit down peacefully and abandon any other
activity than that of drawing his salary. The
odds are heavily against Liberalism gaining
a majority in the Senate. Cook knows it,
but the gallant fellow is unafraid. He is
prepared to stand four-square to every blast,
and face the enemy unflinchingly, and in
general to behave like a sort of hairless
Napoleon. The reason is that not he, but
the electors, will be required to find the money
for his gamble. Assuming that the coming
general election costs £50,000 —which is a
moderate estimate —it will mean that the
electors (who probably in their hearts care
very little whether Cook or Fisher is “legis-
lating” for them) will have laid that amount
on behalf of Cook, against the sum total
of the three years’ Ministerial salary which
he and his colleagues expect to connect with
in the unlikely event of their gaining the
day. The electors don’t want to back Cook
to win the Prime Ministership. The bet must
appeal to those of them who possess the gift
of reason as an absolutely rotten one. But
they have no option in the matter. If they
are fortunate they will only drop their
£50,000 once —that is, at the coming elec-
tions. But it is possible that Cook may call
upon them to put it up again, and yet again;
for the issues on which he is relying will be
as vital next year as they are this, and the
lust for office is imperishable.
In the event of the present situation being
perpetuated after next elections (or, in other
words, if neither party secures a majority
in both Houses), there is but one way out
of a dilemma which is both tragic and ab-
surd. And that is the institution of a system
of Elective Ministries. The Party System
is preposterously unbusinesslike and unscien-
tific, at the best. As exemplified in the Aus-
tralian Parliament at the present time, it is
a prize sample of insanity. With Elective
Ministries there would be no need for a
series of costly dissolutions. The Governor-
General would be saved the harassing ex-
perience of having to come to a decision which
is bound to embroil him with one party or
the other. Elderly legislators would be able
to go to their own homes at night, whereby
they would be debarred from making public
exhibitions of themselves by wrangling over
bed-clothes in Parliament during the hours
of darkness. A tremendous amount of Parlia-
mentary ill-feeling would be averted, with
beneficial results as regards the despatch of
business. The Mace would not be kicked
under a seat. Months of valuable time would
be saved which is now consumed in stone-
walls, futile recriminations, withdrawals,
apologies, and mendacious explanations.
More work would be done in a week than is
at present effectuated in a year. And after
all, Parliament is intended primarily to be a
place of work; it is Party Government that"
has done most to make it a House of leisured
-buffoonery.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
This Boom and the Last.
The Australian boom of recent years isn’t
like the boom of a quarter of a century ago
in one very important respect. Then a lot
of the foreign borrowing was done by the
banks ; this time it has been done almost
exclusively by the Governments. In the
late ’Bo’s London and Glasgow poured their
deposits into Australian institutions—
poured them in so hard that the Australian
bank manager was almost, driven out with
a lasso to haul in borrowers. Under
such circumstances a monstrous infla-
tion. of values was inevitable: a man
with nothing to lose didn’t worry
very much whether it was £15,000 or £20,000
he was undertaking to pay for a property,
because he was going to pay it with some-
one else’s money. At the worst he would
be nothing out of pocket; at the best he
might pass the purchase on to somebody else
for £25,000. Unfortunately the banks held
the deposits with which these transactions
were financed on short terms: in two years
at most John Bull and Sandy from the
North were entitled to get their money back ;
and when they became doubtful of the
security on which the banks were lending
they roared for it, sometimes even before the
due date. Then came the crash, due almost
entirely to the persistent withdrawal of
John and Sandy’s deposits. During the
present boom the banks have taken practi-
cally no foreign money. On the contrary,
being well supplied with the proceeds of
excellent wool clips, good wheat harvests
and the sale of metals at exceptionally high
prices, they have actually been lending
money at call in Europe; in other words,
they have been holding large sums where,
though it could be drawn on in an emer-
gency, it was still able to earn some interest.
When the last great boom showed signs of
bursting they had no such reserves to fall
back upon: while they had borrowed furi-
ously they had also lent furiously. HoW
completely changed is the position nowadays
may be judged from the fact that, though
the Australian banks (including those of
Maoriland) have £68,000.000 more of de-
posits than they had in 1892, their advances
have increased by less than one million. In
1892 they had made advances to the total
extent of £30,000,000 more than the deposits;
now, instead of the banks lending out all
their deposits and more, the advances are
£38,000,000 less. Their position is there-
fore almost incomparably stronger than it
was in 1892. As for the public borrowing
“abroad” it differs from the borrowing of
money on deposit by the banks in this re-
spect : while the deposit money may be called
for at once, and generally is called for when
it is most inconvenient to pay it, public
borrowing is almost invariably for a long
fixed term. The bulk of a bank’s deposits
may thus be called for within six months,
and practically the whole lot of them within
two years, whereas, unless the arrangements
have been particularly shocking, no country
ever pledges itself to repay more than a very
small percentage of its debts in any one
year. The immediate consequences of the
present borrowing boom and the boom of
25 years ago are much the same: there is
an absurd inflation of values, and a general
appearance of tremendous prosperity which
is largely bogus. But whereas the old boom
collapsed suddenly and with disastrous re-
sults, the current boom will probably fizzle
out gradually. Then Australia had to face
not only the stoppage of borrowing, but also
a demand for the immediate repayment of
millions. Now, the banks having no foreign
debt, the worst that can happen—and the
thing that sooner or later will happen—will
be the stoppage of borrowing without the
other distressful circumstance. And for
that more comfortable prospect Australia has
to thank the banks which, unlike the Gov-
ernments, learned their lesson and avoided
the old mistake.
The Shopwalker King.
Dear Bulletin, — So King William Wied,
of Albania, seems to be revealed as a short-
distance or sprint potentate—not a Mara-
thon-race or long-jump ruler. He lost his
seat the first time his unstable diadem
bucked, and he scratched himself for all
events, and fled on to a foreign warship with
a medical certificate to the effect that his
corns made fighting impossible. Whether
he will come back and resume business at
the old peanut stand is unknown at time of
writing. Albania is a scrappy, hungry,
mountainous land of many clans, many feuds,
many bitter religions, a heap of mad old tra-
ditions, and a lot of antiquated guns. It
never was a kingdom before, so it is a purely
artificial contraption, manufactured by for-
eign States. Some of them want it to be a
failure, so that they may pick the bones of
the deceased. Some of them—those States
which have no chance at the bones —want it
to be a vigorous wild cat, and a thorn in the
side of their big neighbors. There is no
thorn like a wild cat. Unless some big
Power like Austria, with a great capacity for
organisation, gets hold of Albania, its whole
future sems to be a wild cat. Greece isn’t
big enough to hold it, good fighting-man as
the Greek is, but Austria has a strange
capacity for putting a friendly yet ele-
phantine hoof on little, hyena-like races, a:.d
making them fairly tame and fairly reason-
able. The Austrian Empire included 18 dis-
tinct nations before it took in Bosnia and
Herzegovina, and a few more don’t matter
to the kindly old elephant, which always
struggles along somehow. Albania, standing
by itself, seems something of a jest. Its
principal industry is assassination. You pay
your assassin, and he supplies his own gun
and his own boulder to lurk behind. Also,
he supplies the corpse. The other products
are feuds, goats and vegetables. To this
picturesque land the Great Powers, in the
immensity of their mirth and cussedness, sent
a trim, orderly German prince with a beauti-
ful uniform, a bagful of good intentions, no
money worth speaking of, and the best wishes
of everybody concerned. , Also, he had moral
support. He started to govern a country
where taxes can only be collected by a bare-
footed taxgatherer who comes into the house
by night and looks for the lawful assessment
in the pants which the house-father hung on
the bedpost, and the grown-up Albanian is a
light sleeper, takes his gun to bed, and shoots
on the smallest provocation. William of
Albania, in his brightly-polished boots, tried
to pacify Essad, the local competitor for the
wooden armchair of office, with the
post of Minister of War, when all that Al-
bania wanted in that line was a Minister of
Lurks and Assassinations and Dead Bodies.
Then, apparently, this spick-and-span Ger-
man king began to see his Minister of War in
the visions of his head upon his bed, when he
slumbered with his sword by his side and
his faithful plug-hat shining underneath his
couch. Germany is so full of kings and princes
that every new kingdom—Roumania, Bul-
garia, Greece, Albania and sundries —buys a
new, cheap German prince to wear the new
tinpot crown. They have been big men as
a rule, but apparently William Wied wasn’t
big—or at least he wasn’t big enough. After
he had seen his Minister of War in his sleep
for many nights, he had him arrested and put
on board a foreign warship. Then he had a
vision of 210,000 imaginary insurgents pour-
ing into his capital, though the population
couldn’t have supplied so many, and the capi-
tal would have burst with the pressure. So
King William Wied seized the twopenny re-
galia and fled on board a foreign warship
himself. There were no insurgents, but a
spectral, armed beer-horror had got hold of
his new and cheap Majesty, and the cheap
new potentate fled. It is a humorous busi-
ness from first to last. Apparently King
William Wied was intended for the ladies’
underclothing department, and in his
capacity as first ruler of a State which is all
bigotry and brigandage and hereditary dissen-
sion he was in the wrong box. The reign of
the Floorwalker King, so far as it has gone,
ought to be cinematographed.—Yours, etc.,
Henry Horsecollar.
*.
Concerning the Flogging of a Dead
Horse.
The French have a saying—“He who
excuses himself accuses himself,” and most
of the Empire Day speakers and writers
make this tactical error. They give elabo-
rate reasons why the celebrations are alto-
gether justifiable, and incidentally disclose
the fact that they perfectly well know them
to be futile and ridiculous. This applies,
of course, only to the more intelligent cele-
brants. The Henleys of N. S. Wales and
the Robinsons of Victoria will not realise
that there is anything wrong with Empire
Day till the remains are, figuratively speak-
ing, deposited on their doorstep. Henley,
M.L.A., for example, had the fatuity in the
course of one of his speeches to make the
celebration of Empire Day a test of “loy-
alty.” He warned the audience very
solemnly against those “enemies within the
Empire’s gates” who had omitted to turn
up and hear him slaughter aspirates and
assassinate the English language in the
name of patriotism. His knees would give,
in loyal horror, if it were brought home to
him that in making this inferential charge
he was heaping mud upon practically every
prominent citizen of the United Kingdom,
from the Sovereign and his wife down-
wards. Yet it is so. Outside portions of
Australia and Canada Empire Day has
ceased to be, for all practical purposes. As
regards about 90 per cent, of the British
Empire, it never was. King George, like
his father, is notoriously frigid on the sub-
ject. The excellent reason is that the Earl
of Meath started Empire Day as a
sort of perennial tribute to Queen Victoria,
and it is not in human nature that sove-
reigns should like the limelight to be
diverted from them to their immediate pre-
decessors. The king is often genuinely sorry
when the king is dead; but he does expect
the deceased —the inevitable having occurred
—to play the game and stay dead, and not
keep emerging from the tomb and button-
holing Posterity, and drawing the latter’s
attention to his (the deceased’s) virtues.
That is one of the many reasons why a
member of the present British Cabinet —as
reluctant, one may take it, to see the
Empire burst as either Henley, of Sydney,
or Brother Robinson, of Melbourne —
announced" in the House of Commons last
year that “His Majesty’s Government had
no official cognisance of Empire Day.” If
Henley and those who think like him are
going to brand all non-celebrants on May
21- with the marks “Empire-burster” and
“Traitor,” they will have to crowd into the
same galley King George. Queen Mary and
the whole of the Royal family; practically
every member of the House of Lords, in-
cluding the Archbishops and Bishops; fully
90 per cent, of the Commons, including
such unimpeachable characters as Asquith,
Grey, Balfour, the two Cecils and Aug-
ustine Birrell ; and every Wesleyan,
Presbyterian, Baptist and Congregational


cleric from Land’s End to the far North of
Scotland Eton, Harrow, Winchester, Marl-
borough and those other classic schools on
whose playing-fields the Empire is under-
stood to have been won, do not dream of
celebrating the Day which stirs the Henleys
of the Commonwealth to such a pitch of
loyal frenzv. IVlost of the boys have never
heard of the thing, nor have many of their
parents. If the celebration did anything
towards consolidating the Empire there
would be some excuse for it. But it mani-
festly doesn’t —no more than the annual
explosion of a cracker would help to keep
the river Murray flowing. If it were, a
spontaneous affair, as regards a big section
of the people, it might still have a certain
right to be taken seriously. But the only
member of the community who celebrates
to any extent worth mentioning is the
oppressed Australian child ; and this heavily 7
put-upon individual has no option in the
matter.
The Peril of the Wife.
Accokding to a recent London cable —
Dr. Frances Ivens, of the Liverpool Womens
Hospital, in the course of her evidence before the
Royal Commission on Venereal Diseases, urged that
a married woman ought to be told the nature of her
disease, and thus enabled to avoid the risk of re-
infection without her consent.
Dr. Ivens said that if the policy is to be dis-
continued of concealing from women the nature of
those diseases from which so many of them suffered,
the whole profession must come to an agreement on
the question.
Which inspires the query: How many of
the ill-advised folks who oppose the free
public discussion of venereal diseases realise
the disastrous way in which the existing
habit of silence on this question affects
thousands of innocent women? Under pre-
sent conditions the more “carefully brought-
up” a girl is the less she knows of the dan-
gers which face her when she marries. Most
girls who have been “carefully brought up,”
in the! Sense that the conventional school-
mistress understands the term, do not so
much as know of the existence of the two
most prevalent venereal complaints. In
this dangerous condition of mind they marry.
Some husbands are naturally virtuous;
others become so after marriage; but an
unpleasantly large number resume their old
riotous practices so soon as the glamor of
wedlock has passed away. It is obviously
Society’s duty—to say nothing of the ques-
tion of self-interest—to protect the wife
against this sort of husband. Not only does
Society do nothing whatever of value in
this direction, but it actually employs all
its forces in an effort to deceive the Woman
and save the man at any price from the con-
sequences of his wrong-doing. It is an
everyday affair for doctors in big practice to
be visited by well-to-do men wbo have in-
fected their wives and want the matter
hushed up. Nine medical men out of 10
argue something after this fashion: “The
damage has been done. Little, if anything,
is to be gained by telling the unfortunate
woman what is the matter with her, since
the disease under any other name can be as
well assailed. On the other hand, exposure
may mean tragedy, the breaking-up of the
home, and endless other complications.” . So
the mystified wife is treated for “local irri-
tation” or for a skin trouble of an unusual
sort, and a lot of unpleasantness is averted.
Social purity enthusiasts in Australia, as
elsewhere, are actually demented enough
to support this rotten system. Like the
doctors, they stand not to the wronged wife
but to the fallen man. They don’t do it
directly, of course, but their actions produce
that effect as efficaciously as though they
were straight-out barrackers for Vice. Every
advocate of a policy of keeping a vast
majority of women in ignorance of the vene-
real disease problem is a potential accessory
before and after the fact of some luckless
girl’s physical ruin. (Alternatively, the
advocate in question may be similarly re-
sponsible for tbe ruin of thousands.) The
woman who has had a chance to study the
question of venereal disease is wary, in the
first place, in regard to whom she marries.
This fact alone may save her from a lifetime
of misery. In the event of her contracting
disease after marriage she, has the advantage
of knowing at once (1) what has happened
to her —an important point in these cases,
where delay is the greatest danger—-and (2)
who is responsible; which latter is to say
that she will know how to avoid anything
of the sort occurring in future. Who is to
say that such knowledge should be withheld
from women? Obviously.the alleged moralist
who conspires to keep girls ignorant on the
venereal disease question is playing,J:he game
not of the genuine, right-thinking person,
but of the raffish man of the world ; he is
an agent not of heavenly light but of moral
darkness.
Clean Sheets and Dirty Lefts.
There are at least two sorts of policemen—
the upright, helpful, affable and altogether
desirable J. Hop, and his very different col-
league who is the last word in needless
offensiveness, provocative manners and vio-
lent and illegal conduct. Of course, the
objectionable hop is not always so. In the
presence of one whom he recognises to be a
Minister, or a Judge, or a Magistrate he
can be a perfect Chesterfield. It is this fact,
combined with the circumstance that most
big Government officials are known to the
police, which causes magistrates and the like
to cherish such a respect for the Force-
just as many an employer reveres his cook
until he overhears her private opinion of
him and his. The bad policeman is
seen at his worst when he bumps
against an obscure citizen whose ap-
pearance annoys him. The odds are, in
such a case, that there is a black time ahead
for the obscure citizen. A couple of policemen
who stand marked with this brand appeared
before the Sydney Quarter Sessions last week.
They were convicted of having assaulted and
occasioned bodily harm to one Ciiinnery.
In their efforts to free themselves they swore
that (Jhinnery’s injuries had been occasioned
by himself; also they swore a number of
other things, which neither the Judge nor the
jury believed. Counsel laid stress on their
blameless records, and asked that they
should be treated as first offenders. The
Judge, in sentencing them regretfully to nine
months apiece, harped at length on the same
topic—as though it had anything whatever
to do with such a case as this. Every police-
man has presumably a clean sheet as regards
the malfeasances that matter, or he would
be earning his living in some other
walk in life. An unsmirched character is the
only real justification that many constables
have for being in the force. But the posses-
sion of what is known as a good character is
often merely a matter of not being found
out. Few things are more disquieting than
the tendency on the part of magistrates,
counsel and others who are in the habit of
being deferred to daily by policemen, to
consider that some dreadful mistake has
occurred when they are found out. The
result is the brutal or unjust constable can
rely on having his word believed unless the
evidence against him is overwhelming;
while, if the worst comes to the worst, the
chances are that his punishment will be of
the lightest. This is manifestly all wrong.
The constable holds a fiduciary position of
the highest importance. lie has the reputa-
tion of every member of the community in
his keeping, in so far as he has the power to
blast, or at least to seriously injure, any-
one’s character if he goes about the enter-
prise with sufficient subtlety. When he is
convicted of illegality his punishment should
be heavier than that handed out to any lay-
man for a similar offence; in the first place
because he is in a position to commit crimes
with fatal ease and immunity from observa-
tion, and in the second because a criminal
policeman is an appalling public danger.
Also the Bench ought to try to rid itself of
the prevalent superstition that the Force is
without sin—or very nearly so. It should
not, as at present, require a ton of evidence
in every case where a policeman is the
accused' party. A hundredweight of un-
biased testimony, or even a shade less, should
be enough. What with one thing and
another, the erring John Dun is getting to
regard the Bench as a sort of Sanctuary
a perilous state of affairs from the stand-
point of the citizen who has neither pull,
official position nor money.
4
lan Hamilton’s Encouragement.
“B.B.”: The enthusiasm with which Gen-
eral lan Hamilton has praised the trainees
in Australia and Maoriland. and his cheery
way of frequently expressing his satisfac-
tion while overhauling the compulsory
training-for-defence schemes of the two coun-
tries, has led to a published opinion here
and tl re that the Inspector-General of the
Overseas Forces is pulling the Australasian
limb. But it is clearly not so. Hamilton
is a man whose whole life and experience
has taught him the value of cheery en-
couragement ; and there is no doubt that his
cheery encouragement of the Australian
defence system is honestly meant. No man
of his eminence, and in view of his special
task, would, in his official report, attempt
to pull the Commonwealth’s leg with, say,
the following:—
With courage and perseverance Australia may vet
be able to boast that she has shown the way to all
the great military Powers—to Switzerland and to
the Old Country—of raising powerful armies for
home defence with a minimum tax on the priceless
time of the adult male worker. . . .Many officers
speak as if the experiment of making cadet draining
a substitute for a long period of recruit drilling, as
in the Swiss and other regular or militia systems,
were bound in the end to fail. But in so speaking
they have, I am convinced, made too small an
allowance for the troubles and difficulties that are
inevitable in the inauguration of any original
scheme. I myself believe that, with so much good-
will to work upon, these difficulties will grow
with each succeeding year, until, finally, they vanish
so completely that the croaker of to-day will be able
to pose proudly before his descendants as one of the
pioneers of the movement.
Sandwiched in between are the clear-
sighted pieces of advice, the finger pointing
to the necessities for quicker and surer
results. But dominating the extensive
criticism is the optimistic spirit. The skilled
man lets Australia know that, while he is
well aware of the stupendous job ahead or its
handful of men to keep the nation White
and undefiled, he is agreeably surprised at
the progress already made towards tne
defence of the Great Ideal.
Pity for the Poor Blind and Paragraphs
for Arthur Pearson.
The writings of “0.K.”:
The wealthy and comfortably-off classes of the
Cold Country are strenuously employed in pitying
the poor blind these times. The Gaud Mayor of
London has taken up the matter of raising .£130.000
for the purpose of “cheapening and simplifying
Braille literature.” In 40,000 churches special
services of “thanksgiving to God for the blessing
of sight” have been held, or else 20,000 churches
have held two services apiece whereat divine aid
to the blind was invoked” and collections on behal
of the Braille fund were taken up. Reading in tne
cable news of this sudden burst of national gratitude
for a “blessing” which is enjoyed in a far greater
degree by the birds of the air (bar owls) and most
of the beasts of the field, people are apt to wonder
how it came about. The explanation is in the lac
that Arthur Pearson is hon. treasurer for the
National Institute for the Blind, the name of
Pearson spelling newspaper agitation for a particuiai
PEAiisoN-ic purpose. Arthur is pretty certain to
come out of this boost with a knighthood, at least.
“His Majesty the King is giving his strong support
to the scheme.” Pauline Chase, the original Peter
Pan, has written to Pearson stating that she loves
his scheme, and hopes that the Government will fix
a time when every person in the British Isle must
bandage his eyes for an hour and think about the
blind, to whom such bandages make no difference.
James Douglas, in a London weekly, deprecates
further outcry re the recent Suffragette attack upon
the painted body of the Velasquez Venus in the
National Gallery, on the ground that it is a very
commonplace painting, the alleged £45,000, value
whereof ought to “be given to Arthur Pearson
for the purpose of relieving the misery of the 35,000
blind people who cannot see either the back of the
Velasquez Venus or anything else ” In England
just now no reference to the poor blind is complete
without a reference also to Arthur Pearson. He is
scoring a lovely advt. The cause of humanity, to
be sure, will be served somewhat by the extension
of literary education and entertainment among the
sightless, but that surely is no reason why a nation
should grovel. Blindness has its compensations, as
long as there are people who can see to look after
the afflicted. In Britain hundreds of thousands of
people spend their years in a struggle with penury,
and many die of want in the struggle—because they
are not blind. Were they sightless they would be
cared for, more or less. Utter poverty entails physi-
cal sickness and tends to deaden the mind, whereas
sightlessness tends to quicken it. Homer is tradi-
tionally reputed to have been sightless, and it is
certain that all days were nights to Milton when
he conceived his great poem, so much spoken of and
so little read. For years Britain had a blind M.P.
who followed the hounds when he could merely feel
the horse he bestrode, and, perhans, smell the fox
the hounds were pursuing. Blindness is not neces-
sarilv the worst of physical afflictions for rich men,
nor the worst that can happen to the indigent. But
it is one that appeals particularly to shallow senti-
mentality, and provides Arthur Pearson, hon.
treasurer, with an opportunity to work the press,
the pulpit and the petticoat for his glorification.
Following on the Titanic horror, the
tragedy of the sinking of the 14,000-
tonner Empress of Ireland, with the loss of
a thousand lives, will compel shipbuilders to
face the problem of the unsinkable ship. The
maritime law in force calls only for two
transverse bulkheads, one abaft and one
before the engine-room. Most modern steamers
have three, five, seven, or more, but all are
transverse and none are longitudinal. What
happened to the Titanic when she hit the ice-
berg happened to the Empress when the col-
lier collided with her. Each impact tore
through such an area of plates that the
crossways bulkheads were of no avail. The
only “unsinkable” ship so far offered is con-
structed on the principle of the basket in
which the grocer brings a dozen of beer. It
is provided on each side with two bulk-
heads, lengthwise. This is the pro-
vision made in the Britannic, the suc-
cessor to the Titanic, and if it does
not promise absolute immunity from disaster
it ought to be a move towards it. The
stricken Empress floated only a few minutes,
surely a travesty on the policy of building a
floating palace which can’t withstand for
more than a quarter of an hour the shock of
a vessel half her size running into her. The
fact is that iron vessels on the present plan
of construction are absolutely weak at their
vital spot—the engine-room. The new
steamers now building for the Sydney Fer-
ries, Limited, are of the egg-case or “unsink-
able” pattern, but the difficulty in adopting
that principle to sea-going vessels is the
encroachment on the cargo space. The carry-
ing of cargo is a paying business ; in many
cases more so than the transporting of pas-
sengers, and where the dividends accumulate
there shall Fat be found on guard.
Poet Phillip Bay, the elaborate pond which
attempts to deal with the whole seagoing
trade of Victoria, and has just arranged to
get a bit also of the trade of N. S. Wales,
has had a bad dream, following on the
announcement that the White Star liner
Suevic (12,400 tons) had to fool around out-
side the Heads for seven hours waiting for
a favorable tide. For its comfort Melbourne
told itself that “there will be no trouble
when the Suevic is leaving Port Phillip”;
in other words, the departure of the boat
will be timed not to suit its own convenience
so much as the convenience of the bay.
Though it thus tries to look pleasant, Mel-
bourne knows it is in trouble. A, C. Mac-
kenzie, the Harbor Trust engineer, recently
prepared a scheme to meet future require-
ments. It would take SO years to give.effect
to his recommendations, and the cost is un-
countable. In sheer desperation the Trust
has now submitted the whole matter to
H. D. Walsh, the Sydney expert, whose
report opens with the significant remark:
“Many of the earlier schemes proposed for
providing additional shipping facilities at
Port Melbourne and at Melbourne have been
rendered obsolete owing to the immense in-
crease in the size and draft of vessels during
the last 10 years.” Walsh’s recommenda-
tion covers only five years’ work, during
which time the expenditure is to be
£2,869,000. And that is only a preliminary
outlay—a mere deposit, so to speak. In
view of the continuous increase in the size
of ships, the task of keeping Port Phillip up
to date resembles that of old Sisyphus,
whose job consisted of rolling a stonewall or
a deficit or a nightmare or something up a
hill, when it immediately rolled back again.
A statesman might deal with the situation by
opening up fresh ports; but it is easier to
find ports than statesmen.
The Holman Government is going to settle
the great Cabbage problem for N. S. Wales
by the simple process of making suitable
land available for market gardens and en-
couraging the white man to buy a hoe and
go ahead. Unhappily this won’t do it. The
trouble now is not the growing <if the vege-
tables, but their distribution. The Bulle-
tin knows a market gardener—or a man
who thought he would be a market gardener
—who less than a month ago sdld cabbages
at 2s. 3d. a dozen. It was the utmost he could
get for them, and even then he couldn’t sell
all he had; yet on the same day similar or
not-so-good cabbages were costing Bd. to
lOd. each delivered at the back-door in a
Sydney suburb. Incidentally, what about
suggesting to the vigorous Australian, who
works only 44 hours a week, that he might
grow a cabbage or two himself? It really isn’t
a social or any other kind of offence for a
plasterer or a tramway guard to grow a
cabbage for his own pot in his own back
yard.
The Degenerate.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The pulin’ white degenerate ’e’s busy day
by day .
In buildin’ lordly barrages to moisten
Egypt’s clay;
’E’s managin’ the Javan while e educates
the Lapp, .
An’ gives a ’int on buildin ships to
SinzuKA the Jap;
’E’s irrigatin’ barren wastes on India s
coral strand.
An’ showin’ Kaffirs how it’s done beneath
the golden Rand.
Wherever ’elpless brown men wail for coun-
sel in their woe
The pulin’ white degen’rate comes an’ runs
the bloomin’ show.
I’ve met ’im up at Thursday and I’ve caught
’im on the Ely,
I’ve seen ’im in Uganda with the lion
crouching nigh, .
When plague ’ad driven Aiimed wild with
fear to howl an’ pray,
An’ Aiimep’s women ’id their ’eads an’
wept their eyes away.
“Just dry yer eyes,” the white ’e cries, an
drop yer silly grovel,
Get on yer feet an’ clean yer street, an
scrub yer dirty hovel;
You’ll find,” ’e growls, “no good in ’owls —
but don’t abandon ’ope,
Just drain yer town an’ wash yer gown an’
put yer trust in soap.”
The pulin’ white degen’rate ’as a contract
close to Rio
To bring the ’alf-breed wastrels up, say,
level with Ohio;
The boundin’ Filipino ’e is puttin’ ’im to
rights, . , ,
An’ ’eipin’ dusky Africans to see the lgher
lights; . .
An’ while ’is gangs in Panama with yellow
fever play,
With eunnin’ dam and drainage he keeps
I'Tip piitsp fit - hav
Where’er the colored brothers in their ’elp-
less anguish call,
The pulin’ white degen’rate ’e comes and
’elps them all.
Of course (we know) the tropic ’eat will
make the beggar sag,
An’ on his operations soon ring down the
gloomy rag;
But, meantime, it’s astomshin ow much e
worries through
Wtile brothers Brown an’ Ebony are puz-
zlin’ what they’ll do ; _
W’erever plague an’ pest an’ pain are ragin
like the Devil,
All’ dirt an’ fleas an’ fell disease old ’igh a
. round o’ revel
’Twould seem as if whene’er a blight on
Adam’s children fall,
The pulin’ white degen’rate comes in bles-
sin’ to them all.
We’re castin’ no reflections on the un-
r!pp’PßPl’fl f"p TfICP
We know in time they’ll use their brains an’
wash their grimy face;
But, meantime, there are ships to build an
tunnels huge to bore,
An’ flyin’ craft to engineer on ev’rv modern
shore,
An’ demons dark to track an’ mark in
science ’all an’ study,
An’ rifts to mend an’ hills to rend with
toilin’ ’ands an’ bloody; -
Per’aps you’ll do the job in style with col-
ored brains an’ crew,
But I’m afraid degen’rate whites ’ave still a
lot to do 1
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
The Big Opportunity of a Little State.
Randolph Bedford sees a chance: —
The comic-opera management of Launceston Gaol
has ended in the decision of the Earle Government
to demolish the prison, and probably that of Hobart
will soon follow. The prisons occupy high-priced
situations in both cities, and their destruction and
the sale of the land would produce sufficient to pay for
a new central gaol in the country, and leave a good
margin of profit. The day for anything more than tem-
porary detention-prisons in cities has departed, and at
Launceston the establishment has become so ridicu-
lously out-of-date that the gaol was left warderless
at night. At dusk, or some little time after, the
warder withdrew to his home, far from the scene of
his wardership—like any other mechanic who does
not reside in his factory —and the lonely prisoner
guarded himself behind his closed gates, visited only
by the policeman on his beat during the lone watches
of the night. Recently two prisoners escaped in the
most dishonorable manner.
With the two existing prisons out of commission,
and the establishment of a central reformative gaol
in the country, Tasmania, having a Government
which is not bound by convention or precedent, has
now a chance to lead the other States in reformative
penology, as it once led the world in a convict sys-
tem which was more criminal than the individuals
it caused to suffer. .
The exemplar of these Tasmanian reformers is the
Bilibid nrison of Manila —-so signal a success that
the wonder is that the Americans who were
responsible for it have not caused it to
be copied in their own country, which is
as ridiculous in the treatment of a prisoner
as any other country, swaying between seventeenth-
centurv brutality for the poor prisoner and the long
protection of appeal courts and differential gaol
treatment for the rich. Bilibid is the triumph of a
good heart and a big brain. It is a reformatory
where all are employed and are treated more as work-
men than as prisoners. There is no corporal punish-
ment, and the onen dormitory system is used because
of the climate, and to make supervision easy. Clean-
liness, regularity and the giving or withholding of
rewards are the governing clauses of the service.
Each squad of 24 is in charge of a prisoner with
100 per cent, of good-conduct marks. When the
conduct classification was first made 80 per cent, of
all prisoners were in the third class. To-day there
are 90 per cent, in the first class. The merit of the
svstem is that in two years most criminals have
formed the work habit. The prison owns a farm;
and, when the prisoner's time is up, the police help
him to a situation rather than attempt to gaol him
again, as is the custom in more respectable countries.
And the training is known for what it is, so that
the discharged man finds the getting of work easy.
When the Americans took over Bilibid there were
prisoners without records, as in the days of the first
and second fleets of N.S.W., and these the Americans
discharged. Then the rebuilding began, and a wall
to bisect the prison into Bilibid and Presidio: one
place for the reformed prisoner and another for the
possiblv reformable and probably bad. There they
work—all of them. They must earn their living,
with a remission from work of five days in the
month for the highest standard of good conduct.
The visitor at parade walks the summit of the
bisecting wall to the centre of the nrison, where a
platform on a tower commands all the radiating
yards. And while yet upon the wall his ears are
called by a fine orchestra and one of the gayest
marches ever played by a freeman.
Upon the tower he stands as upon the hub of a
wheel, and all the spokes are exercise yards. Imme-
diately below, 40 men in the black-and-slate-colored
bands of the convict play electrically. Within the
spokes are squads of prisoners aggregating 4000 men
listening to their concert. The march ends sud-
denly; 4000 men lift their black mushroom hats as
the band plays “The Star-spangled Banner.”
Then they become soldiers; marching and counter-
marching till the band changes over to the music
for their physical exercises. Eight thousand hands
are raised at one stroke; 8000 feet-move at another;
4000 hats are on the ground and 4000 men are lift-
ing themselves arm-high on fingers and- toes at the
next. Then, after a ration parade, the band plays
them back to their dormitories, disguised as bunga-
lows, and leaves them to make a cheerful meal.
It is all discipline founded on the giving and
withholding of rewards, rivalry and the chances of
approbation all in one. Man must “show off,” and
the Bilibid methods help him to do it in a good
way. Under the old system that disgraced Sydney,
Fremantle, Brisbane, Norfolk Island and Tasmania
the thing emulated was crime. In Bilibid they
emulate the best workman, the best athlete, the man
with the best record, and therefore the man who first
wins liberty- The old style said to the prisoner:
“You are so irretrievably lost that you cease to be
human.” The method of Bilibid says: “You are a
fool; let us show you what you miss by being in
prison, and your own sense will tell you once you
are free that only a double fool can come back
again.” .
Tasmania is beginning a revolution against the
citv gaol, and I hope the unionist, with his shib-
boleth of “unfair competition,” will not help the
fairly-numerous class that is opposed to gaol reform.
There is nothing more sure to make the criminal
repeat his transgressions than the making the way
of the transgressor too hard. For the incurable
there still remain the indeterminate sentence and
in the last re«ort the scaffold ; but the others should
have every fighting chance a sane community can
give them.


Hotel Steyne,
Manly Beach, N.S,W,
Facing the Pacific Ocean.
THE BRIGHTON OF AUSTRALIA*
SURF-BATHING RIGHT IN
FRONT OF THE HOTEL.
Excellent Golf Links in Close Proximity.
Hot Salt Water Baths Adjacent.
TERMS —From \ 1/6 Day;
£3 I Os* Week.
THE'DUDLEY"
CONCERTINA
ORGAN-TONED CONCERTINAS IN
HANDSOME BOXES.
No. 4. Rosewood Style Tops, 10 Ger-
man Silver Keys, 8-fold Bellows, post
free 10/6
No. 5. Rosewood Style Tops, with
Trumpet Holes, 10 Bone Keys, 8-fold
Bellows, with Clasp, post free, 15/-
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Ask your storekeeper for “Dudley” Instruments
or write direct to—•
A.P.SYKESi
272 LIT.COLUNSSTMELBOURNE
CASTOR-OIL, SALTS & DRUGS replaced
BV “CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.”
Delicious “fruit laxative” cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels of old
and young folks.
A delicious cure for constipation, bilious-
ness, sick headache, disordered stomach, indi-
gestion, coated tongue, sallowness —take
“California Syrup of Figs.” For the cause
of all this distress lies in a toripd liver and
sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all consti-
pation poison, waste matter, fermenting food
and bile gently moved out of your system by
morning without griping. Please don’t think
of “California Syrup of Figs” as a physic.
Don’t think you are drugging yourself or
your children. This delicious fruit laxative
cannot cause injury. Even a delicate child
can take it as safely as a robust man. It
is the most .harmless, effective stomach, liver
and bowel regulator and tonic ever devised.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Cali-
fornia Syrup of Figs,” which has full direc-
tions for babies, children of all ages and for
grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
BeWare of counterfeits sold here. Get. the
genuine, made by “California Fig Syrup
Company.” Refuse any other kind with
contempt. “California Syrup of Figs” is
sold by all leading chemists, l/l|d 'and 1/9.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
fTer Majesty's “The Forty Thieves.”
Royal Harry Lauder.
Halace “Bess of Arizona.”
A ) “The Girl Who Took the
ADtLPm 1 Wrong Turning.”
Little Theatre “The School for Scandal.”
Tivoli McinK-ii t vaudeville iO.
Nationai, AmphitheatreFuller-Brennan Vaudeville.
Lyceum... Spencers I'ctures.
Olympia. West’s Pictures.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures.
GliAClarium Ice-Skating.
Imperial Salon De Luxe Dancing.
Town Hall Antonia Dolores Concerts.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
llku Majesty’s “Sealed Orders.”
King’s “The Face at the Window.”
R0ya1....; “Never Say Die.”
Princess’s. “The Rosary.”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium. Ice Skating.
Bijou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville.
«.
The Little Theatre’s revival of Sheridan’s
classic comedy, “The School for Scandal,”
is a courageous experiment. This forerunner
of the modern society comedy has the excel-
lencies and the defects of all prophets crying
in the wilderness. Stage technique has
necessarily been so improved by Sheridan’s
many pupils—to take one instance only, by
the elimination of the soliloquy—-that, to a
modern audience, the action of the comedy
necessarily drags. Yet the craftsmanship of
the celebrated "screen” scene remains a tri-
umph of dramatic ingenuity, despite innu-
merable variations of what is now a stock
situation. Wilde, too, has made much more
natural the convention of a group of persons
sitting round and firing off epigrams. In
the Sydney production Gerald K. Souper
is a very human Sir Peter Teazle, admirably
suggesting his age and his endearing tem-
perament. Violet Paget fails in the quarrel
scenes with her old husband to suggest the
charm that should have taken the sting out
of her raillery, but in the “screen” scene
her drama is convincingly sincere. Hugh
Buckler rattles through his part of the
spendthrift Charles Surface with infectious
spirit. As the hypocritical brother, Joseph,
Alfred Bristow is sufficiently villainous. The
part of Rowley, in the hands of Wilson
Forbes, is elevated by that actor’s sincerity
to rank with that of the characters already
mentioned. The support, especially in the
“scandal” scenes, is throughout capable and
intelligent. The piece is picturesquely
dresffed, and its genuine eighteenth-century
flavor should prove one of its chief attrac-
tions to Sydney playgoers.
* >'.< # *
Harry Lauder, now at Sydney Royal, is
unquestionably a first-class vaudeville artist.
He would fill in half an hour splendidly at
any show. But a solid hour of him and his
particular brand of humor without any
effective contrast is not satisfying—especi-
ally if you have paid half-e-guinea for your
own seat and another lialf-a-guinea
for your girl’s. The stocky comedian suffers
somewhat and gains a good deal from his
excessive popularity. His “records” have
reproduced his songs to the verge of stale-
ness, and various imitators have copied him
and his methods. But all this has brought
him publicity and made people anxious to
see him. That’s why they have been dredg-
ing out the half-guineas so readily—to see
the famous original of all the fuss, and size
him up for themselves. He is a Wonder
to be seen —like Rome and London—and the
pilgrim can please himself later as to whether
he dies in the approved manner or lives on
to see somebody else. But people are never
curious about the same thing twice, and
half-guineas are getting scarcer. Although
he still has a large, robust voice (on the
opening night he boomed a verse of “Rocked
in the Cradle of the Deep” without accom-
paniment and brought down the house), his
platform items assay about 20 per cent,
singing and 80 per cent, gagging. During
the first performance one impatient elderly
man with serious eyebrows roared angrily
from the circle, “We’ve had enough of that
nonsense. Give us a song.” “Tobermory”
is about his happiest item. In this he
giggles and splutters like the happiest of
half-drunks, and the delighted dance or walk-
round is punctuated by a childishly mis-
chievous and wonderfully expressive back-
kick that just touches the hem of his kilt.
The costume and business of “She’s Ma
Daisy” is too exaggerated and Cockneyesque
to suit his heavy style : but the business of
“The Saftest of the Family” is splendid
right up to the close, when he bursts his toy
balloon and roars and dances in a perfect
ecstasy, of half-witted grief. It is a pity
that his audiences have to sit through a
programme of supporting turns that don’t
matter in order to see and hear him. But
if. he cut his final hour into two thirty-
minute. turns, the people who go to see
him might be driven out by the uneventful
proceedings that followed his first appear-
ance, and depart for the night, and in that
case a little Lauder would be a dangerous
thing. _
The pantomime is dying at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney, in the full flush of its lusty man-
hood. Or perhaps it would be more accurate
to say that it is being assassinated. The
foul deed is being accomplished in the inter-
ests of “Gipsy Bove,” which transpires at
this playhouse on Saturday week, with
Dorothy Brunton, Phil Smith and half a
dozen new imported artists in the leading
rbles.
❖ * * *
Pianist Leonard Borwick, who knows no
musical monkey tricks, delighted a Sydney
audience on Monday night in the Concordia
Hall. He will continue the delight during
his season here, for he is one of the few
pianists who are so entirely satisfactory that
even the weary critics omit their usual con-
cert yawn. Borwick’s programme on the
first evening of his welcome re-appearance in
Sydney included samples of Chopin, Schu-
mann and the poetic Schubert.
„ “Bess of Arizona” (staged at the Palace,
Sydney, on Saturday night) is the sister of
of “Sunflower Sam,” who used to beat up
the hoss-rustlers, bad men, claim-jumpers
and white Indians generally. The show
opens with Bess on her broncho, driving in
two horse-thieves that she had roped along
the trail while waiting for the curtain to
rise. As a cowgirl she is the entire
goods, and her battery was the pattern ap-
proved of by the no-slouch guys who ran
private boneyards in Dead Man’s Gulch and
thereabouts in the days before graft was
encouraged, and there was more money in
faro on the goldfields than on the red-light
beat in New -York. The plot is threadbare
—the tenderfoot hero (with the goldmine)
whom the villain fails to ruin or kill
throughout the piece, probably because the
old recipes have been used so often that even
a tenderfoot is fly to them ; the heroine, who.
with the assistance of the juvenile lead and
the comic relief, foils the villain and his
female, coadjutor; and the set to partners at
the finish for suitable marriages. As a story
it isn’t worth troubling about, and the only
excuse for staging the piece is that there is
scope for some good character work—which
is not too enthusiastically availed of by
more than one or two of a fairly good co.
Ethel Buckley (“Bess”), Robert Inman (the
precious hero), John Cosgrove (the em-
phatic widow who runs the dope shanty)
and C. R. Stanford (the sheriff who is a
Nemesis) keep things moving with more
or less cordiality. The play will be
on the Pitt-street stand, under the
management of Messrs. Dix and Baker, until
further notice, which notice will be far dis-
tant if business continues like it commenced.
* P *
At Sydney Criterion “The Argyle Case,”
in . which the. astounding apotheosis of the
private detective is shown, is remarkable for
the fidelity to humanity with which the
minor characters are portrayed. There are
several small cameos of acting, such as Andy
(Leonard Stephens), Mrs. Beauregard
(Maggie Moore), and Daniel Colt (Charles
HARRY LAUDER AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
“She’s Ma Daisy."
Brown), that conceivably could not be more
artistically presented, while the judicious re-
serve of Gertrude Boswell, as the wife of
the counterfeiter, makes convincingly human
a character that could so facilely be rend-
ered melodramatic. The end of the play is
in sight, which must be a relief to the man-
agement, as the consumption of cigars
is believed to be causing a dangerous strain
upon the box-office.
* * :J;
“From Convent to Throne” was revived at
the Sydney Adelphi on Saturday, and mem-
ories of many murders, large quantities of
gunpowder, miles of gold braid and numerous
medals and court dresses helped to just
about fill the house. These will all be put
back into cold storage again to-morrow even-
ing, and on Saturday night “The Girl Who
Took the Wrong Turning” will explain what
happened round that particular corner.
Farr and Farland, alias the Dude and the
Amiable Ass, the newcomers at the Sydney;
Tivoli, are a pair of cheerful idiots who keep
things moving while they’re about. The
rest of the dish consists mainly of Ada
Reeve, with Carr (ventriloquist), Talleur
Andrews, Reade and Vivien Talleur
(dancers), the Four Vagabonds and a few
others for seasoning. This week the Tango
Teas are specialising in invisible corsets.
Starting on Saturday, the Brennan-Fuller
management will repeat at Sydney an ex-
periment which was not a success at Mel-
bourne —vaudeville performances twice daily,
one at 2.30 and another at 8 p.m. Mean-
while, at the National Amphitheatre, George
Bogues and Eva Olivotti, the clever double
who brightened up “The Mayor of Tokio.”
are a pleasurable circumstance in a musical
comediette. The bill, generally, is recom-
mended.
* * * *
The Imperial Salon de Tango is at the
old address in William-street, Sydney. It is
no use going early to avoid the crowd ; but
by climbing over the 6ft. fence at the back
of the building and clambering through the
fanlight in the manager’s room there’s a
chance of getting in ahead of the said crowd.
❖ * * *
The Glaciarium declared itself open in a
mild sort of way last week, and the treasury
already begins to find itself up against the
tango craze. However, as far as the skaters
are concerned, the more there are at the
tango, the more room there is on the ice. Life
is full of compensations. Even when the
landlord puts up your rent another half-
crown, you can reflect that he will most
likely buy another twinge of gout with the
extra money.
HARRY LAUDER AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
Broad Scotch humor—"Stop Your
Ticklin', Jock.”
Antonia-Dolores will launch her Austra-
lian tour at Sydney Town Hall on Saturday
night. The soprano brings with her a whole
portfolio of new songs garnered during her
three years wanderings in Europe, as well
as a bundle of the old favorites without
which Dolores would not be complete. Boyd
Wells, the American pianist, will act as
accompanist, and as; a soloist disport him-
self in the harmonic pastures of. Beethoven,
Chopin and others, old and new. The second
concert will take place :on Thursday, 11th;
the third on Saturday, 13th ; and, the fourth
on Tuesday, 16th —all at the Town Hall.
* =:= * *
. What’s what in the picture programmes :• —
Crystal Palace : “The; Vavasour Ball,” wherein
a young lady kicks over the traces with such good
effect that her father gets tangled as well, and the
mix-up' isn’t straightened out till the last flick.
Lyric: Jimmy Clabby. as himself —the middle-
weight crack takes on picture-acting as a side-line.
Empress: “Lost Treasures,” being a yarn of
mob violence, and lynch law, wherein a railway agent
is saved from the rope only to be married to the
girl who saved him.
Spencer’s: “Orders Under Seal,’” which disclaims
all relationship to the much-boomed “Sealed Orders.”
* * * V
Only a month ago the plot of “Sealed
as much of it as really matters
—was stated in “Sundry Shows,” and now
that the same misshapen melodrama has
come from Sydney to Melbourne, there is no
perceptible alteration in the appearance of
the plot. “Sealed Orders” is a double-
jointed affair, clothed in a few essentials and
a lot of superfluities. Professing; to be a
three-act dkma, it is found to consist of a
reasonably long-winded prologue in two
scenes, followed by 13 scenes which are un-
reasonable and scant of breath. Even the
strong dramatic prologue has unnecessary
characters and much dialogue that doesn’t
matter. The only conceivable purpose of
the opening scene is to get the audience sym-
pathetically interested in John Le Page, the
faithful confidential clerk of a Jew diamond
merchant. John’s salary has never sufficed
to enable him to lavish luxuries on his wife
and child. Therefore the doting husband and
father has gambled, and up to the time the
curtain rises his gamblings have shown a
profit. His character in his clerkly capacity
is spotless. In his domestic capacity he
adores the memory of his deceased wife, and
idolises his motherless bairn. He even
thinks of committing suicide that the bairn
may get the insurance money. Away from
the racecourse John Le Page is an estimable
citizen, and the prologue devotes an hour to
saying so. Yet in the 13 after-scenes the
previous character of John matters not
tuppence. He has been transformed into a
ADA REEVE , AT
SYDNEY TIVOLI ,
sings , “ I Never
Forget I'm a
Lady."
prosperous, gentlemanly rogue, and he falls
a vague, misty victim to the vengeance of a
baffled burglar, a bloke, who would have
cheerfully murdered him in the prologue
(ere he yielded to any temptation at all) had
his presence been known to the bloke afore-
said. Firstly, then, the audience feels sorry
for John, whose only fault has been excessive
fondness for his wife and offspring, and then
the audience is expected to transfer its sym-
pathies to a beastly burglar* merely because
he has served a 20 years’ sentence for ap un-
committed murder, instead of serving several
sentences for sundry burglaries, or being
hanged for killing somebody whilst engaged
on a burglarious job.
After 9 p.m., or thereabouts, the audience
cares for nobody, nbr, takes a serious interest
in anything that comes to pass. The
scheming Baron Ivurdman, who wants to
steal the British Admiralty’s precious sealed
orders, is as absurd as all the other
people directly or indirectly concerned
in the theft of them. All the to-do about
a little golden image with diamond
eyes is wearisome. Staged on a much larger
scale at Drury Bane, and played by a speci-
ally-chosen co., the drama is a huge success.;
and Bland Holt, in days of yore, might have
made much of it at the Royal. But under
present conditions it compares unfavorably
in all respects with the first production. of
“The Whip”—a straightforward, lurid hippo-
drama more convincingly acted and better
staged. In the airship scene nothing is dis-
cernible except a propeller which rarely moves
at all, and then moves like a windmill stirred
by a gentle breeze. The man who jumps
from the bridge of a battleship has no visible
ocean to jump into, nor does the stage man-
agement offer any indication of how he comes
to be saved. There never was a man over-
board in a Bland Holt show unless he was
rescued from the rolling deep in a limelit
tableau. The spectacular effects at Her
Majesty’s are disappointing. These things
from Drury Dane, if worth doing at all, are
worth heroic treatment.
* * * *
Edward O’Neill, as Le Page, scores an
easy win in the histrionic competition. His
part in the prologue is a strong one, but the
support he gets from Rex, Varna and Miss
Sidney is weak. Beatrice Day vainly endea-
vors to give a semblance of truth to the
comedy relief business of Lincoln Plumer,
who simply talks his lines in an unsuitable
tone of voice, without attempting to suggest
any other type of person than himself.
Plumer is not a character actor. He is the
portrayer of a stodgy personality. To call
him the Bantock of melodrama would be
rough on Bantock. Hodgson Taylor is a
rather colorless villain, whilst Ethel War-
wick, Dorothy Whitaker, Tearle and several
other people are unsatisfactory more or less.
The criminals, played by Frank Harvey,
Charles Wheeler, Cambourne and Fowler, are
the livest impersonations in the piece. But
it is easy to look like a football fiend and
say “Blimey!” Hardened criminal imper-
sonators can scarcely go wrong.
* * * *
The Face that Grins at the Window, and
makes a noise like a nightmare, will continue
to grin and howl for another week at the
King’s. On the 13th something very differ-
ent will happen at the Anderson establish-
ment. Maud Allan and the Cherniavsky
brethren will take the stage; prices will rise
as they never rose before at the King’s, and
the wedding of Dance and Music will be
solemnised every evening. Meanwhile the
dead detective is still able to sit up and take
a little electric current, and the programme
combines vaudeville and horrors.
“Never Say Die” is raging at the Royal
with unabated fury, and the shadow of its


The Bulletin received mail news this week from
Willison’s “Wide World Wonders” show, at Yenang-
young Burmah, that Fred Horton, known as Wild
Friday,” American sharp-shooter and bowie knife-
thrower, who was engaged in Australia three years
ago, had handed in his ironmongery for good, or
whatever else is waiting for him.
* 6
Tjnok for the “Thoroughbred” trade mark (Regd.) on inside leather whenever YOU buy a
hat—it denotes all that is best ;n style—wearing quality—correct appearance comfortable fit
—and light weight.
“Thoroughbred” Hats are the best that money can
buy. In every stylish and popular shape .(Hard or
Soft Felt) and— sold at popular prices.
It’s no use to take ANY other make if YOU want
a perfect hat, and WITHOUT the “Horse s Head
it’s NOT a “Thoroughbred,” but an imitation.
Stocked by all leading Stores, Hatters and Clothiers
throughout the Commonwealth. If unobtainable in
your district write us direct.
The Austral Hat Mills Ltd .
Abbotsford, Melbourne.
1A
205-7
THIS IS THE "JAoxouxjt/itnjtoi" TRADE MARK
AHM
A Help in
Kidney Troubles.
WOLFE'S
SCHNAPPS.
Missing Friends.
WANTED the address of CHARLES
EDWARD STEVENSON, last
heard of at Bathurst* New South Wales;
and JOHN WILLIAM STEVENSON, last
heard of at Orange. New South Wales. Im-
portant. G. A. STEVENSON, Weldborough,
Tasmania.-
THOMAS HERRIDGE (son of John
HerridgeL last heard well-sinking,
Trangie, N.S.W. Write Aunt, Mrs. H. J.
LEA, Ingleburn, N.S.W.
PONTING. —If Elizabeth Ponting, daugh-
ter of Christian Braten, of Schweinebra-
ten, deceased, will communicate with Messrs.
Taylor and Taylor, 10 New Broad Street,
London, E.C., she will hear of something to
her advantage.
Books and Publications.
Rationalist’s Answer to Christian’s Appeal.
“THE MYTH OETHE RESURRECTION,"
By W. J. MILES.
Primarily answer to Rev. W. Yarrington’s adver-
tised Easter appeal to Rationalists. Also answer to
Rev. La Touche’s “Thirteen Facts.” Special reference
to Schmiedel’s famous article, and notice of Rev. Dr.
Harper’s “Idealism.” Generally an appeal to Christians.
Bright and direct. Most booksellers. Price, Sixpence;
by post, Sevenpence.
*JHE LONE HAND, Bound Volume, New Series,
No. I—including1—including Colored Covers—lS NOW
READY. Orders for same will be treated in order
of priority. Price: Bound Volumes, 7/6; Binding
Covers, 2/6.
moral groweth no loss. Thus saith the
moral: When a millionaire proposes to die
within three weeks and leave all his wealth
to his widow, you are a fool to let him
marry your best girl for widow-making pur-
poses. Tell him he had better bequeath all
the monev to your best girl, and then he can
die like a'bachelor. This aspect of the propo-
sition was never presented to Dionysius by the
vociferous young man. Probably the young
man talks so loudly that he cannot hear him-
self think.
* * *
“The Rosary” is now running to im-
proved business at Melbourne Princess’s, and
the larger demand for Fadher Kelly’s illo-
quence is shown by heavier traffic around the
pay-box. The good praste remains the same
plump figure of light and learning, while
Kenward Wright continues to burst the
happy home in the same old impressive pants.
Ivenward, however, displays none of the un-
pleasant methods of the average serpent of
bellowdrama. He is a soft-spoken drawing-
room type of reptile, and rather suggests a
carpet snake.
“THE FACE AT THE WINDOWAT
MELBOURNE KING'S.
The defunct detective sits up and
twites a note.
Ford, the. Australian sundowner, is the
latest arrival at Melbourne Tivoli. He fol-
lowed in the track of Dusty Rhodes, a song-
ful comedian whom the present policeman is
keeping under observation. The other people
and animals on the bill are as before, for the
people have not outstayed their welcome and
the leopards will not change their, spot until
they are removed by main force. Also the
Six Camerons are there, nobody having paid
them to go away.
The Auditorium is on the brink of a busy
time. Mischa Elman starts his season this
Saturday, supported by a symphony orches-
tra 70 strong. The famous violinist will
be there again on the Bth, 10th and 13th,
playing a different concerto with the orches-
tra each night. Harold Bauer, whom the
Taits introduce as an amazing pianist, will
have the stage to himself on the 9th, 11th,
16th, 18th, and 20th.
Banjoist Brent Hayes, the Magpie Ladies’
Orchestra, and Weston’s Living Models were
among the new arrivals at Melbourne Bijou
on Saturday. Brent, who is alleged to have
basked in the friendship of the late King
Edward, makes music of an acceptable kind,
nevertheless; and it can be said on behalf
of the Magpie band that its noises have re-
ceived a certificate from Federal Govern-
ment House. Weston’s imitations of statu-
ary give general satisfaction, while The
ButjETiN hasn’t to strain its eyesight to
detect points of merit about May Brilliant,
Woodward and Page, and a couple of , other
piqient performers.
** * &
Charles Spencer has discovered a new
marvel called Detective Webb who out-Sher-
locks Holmes and makes Paul Lecocq look
like a slow-footed Melbourne policeman. On
Saturday the great sleuth earned the loud
thanks of the congregation when, by an
amazing display of second sight and superior
cunning, he solved the mystery of the Black
Triangle and restored an abducted damsel
to her anguished _ father. An uncommonly
grim story called' “The Dowry” was above
the ordinary level, and the point about “The
Children”" was its disrespectful reference to
Lovely Woman’s tongue.
* * * *
The solemn affidavit of “Jane Britannia
Smith” accompanies this :
I attended the Empire Day splurge at the local
school. First the young suppliers of compulsory
enthusiasm were fed with cheap lollies; after
that they were hustled into a hollow square for
flag-saluting, and I never hope to see a stickier or
more fidgety gang. If the teachers hadn’t run round
them, barking and behaving as much as possible like
sheep-dogs, the square would have fallen away in
disorder. After a half-hour wait, , during which
the collies went on running and panting, the
Mayor and his Mayoress arrived, and were fawned
upon by the fussy little committee. A short but
anxious consultation followed regarding the exact
method of boring the victims. Suddenly a junior
teacher jumped as if he had been stung, and set off
at tremendous speed. He presently returned with
a chair. This was set down and the chairman of
the committee laboriously got on top of it, so that
everyone present could see round and under him, and
note that he was the wrong shape, and not the sort
a sculptor would make for choice. He introduced
the Mayor and Mayoress in a voice that seemed to be
filtered through an old pillow. The children, at the
instigation of an unknown fat man, shrieked at the
top of their young voices. Then the Mayor ascended
the chair with difficulty and screamed aloud about
“th’ (deep breath) Hempire—sun neversets —glor’us
’dishins —-Flag—always ’member —Lorroberts—Kish-
nerl” The wind whipped the words from his lips
and threw them all over the place, while the ranks
shuffled and the collies barked in whispers. Presently
“ ’Sworship” ended up with a last triumphant scream
and got down to ground level amidst shrill whoops.
But all was not yet over. Once more the unneces-
sary chairman heaved himself into view and, with
coat-tails fluttering, indistinctly introduced “Pres’dunt
:—shire,” who proved to be loyal to the core —also
ungrammatical. The fat committee person, who had
been hungering for a little limelight, noticing that
the attention of the children was wandering, tore off
his hat and called for more cheers. The youngsters
responded for sheer love of noise, and, warming to
their work, gave an irreverent “tiger.” The impatient
“Pres’dunt,” who evidently thought the fat committee
person had a dashed cheek to interrupt his oration
that way, then blew off the rest of his sentiments
and worked himself into such a frenzy that I thought
he would burst into tears, and have to be taken away
kicking in the Flag. However, he presently went to
pieces and got down quite exhausted and hoarse. As
he descended stiffly from the chair, the suffering
infants were prompted to cheer again. Any person
of perception would have fled with tingling ears from
such a burst of mockery. But the little group didn’t
move an inch —they evidently thought it was “just
lovely.” Once more the misshapen and mistaken and
indefatigable and altogether preposterous chairman
mounted the sinking chair, to introduce a fresh
loyalist. He was deeply involved with his job
when a grinning boy turned to his nearest mates and
I overheard the words, “Come on! let’s kid this bloke
too! HIP-HIP-HOORAY!!” At this the blatant
clown on the chair waved his hat with tremendous
enthusiasm, and the other solemn idiots on the ground
waved thein hats and umbrellas. This Empire Day
silliness may go down with the infant class and the
girls, but to the keen Australian lad, with his ribald
sense of humor, it is merely a golden opportunity to
unmercifully “kid” all the dullest “blokes” in the
community.
** * *
Willoughby’s “Aladdin” panto, is still
going well at Adelaide Royal. Palotta is
delightful, and Carrie Moore’s good work is
marred only by the tearful voice which dam-
aged her ostensibly merry Widow in the
past. Novel features are, first, an American
youth who strolls through the piece without
make-up, yet has the nerve to call himself
a Grand Vizier and Palotta’s father; second,
Grace Ellsworth, another American new-
comer, who starts as a suffragette with a
bomb, but presently forgets to be anything
but her witty and musical self. The wrest-
ling ponies bite their good-natured nigger
vigorously on his south-western elevation,
and send everyone home happy. At the
King’s, the juggling Normans have been
getting that rattling kind of applause which
shows an audience really stirred. Leroy,
Talma and Bosco have now come into this
house for a short season of their own. At
the Tivoli, Gilday and Fox are the brightest
thing in sight—there is an extraordinary
boom in Hebrew “character” everywhere
just now. Winifred Ward, Arthur Don and
his Patty, and basso Robyns are other agree-
able features. Waller’s Butterflies are as
strong as ever, musically and humorously, at
the Town Hall, and Heiniclse’s fine orchestra
has crammed the Exhibition. (The dull thud
LEONARD BORWICK plays a Piano Poem
at Sydney Concordia Hall.
of the guillotine on Robespierre’s head in
the Litolff overture is pleasantly realistic.)
The picture houses, Wondergiaph, Empire
and Pav., •do not seem to find the
demand for “drama” damaged at all by the
success of “The Miracle” at West’s. That
claimed-to-be moral story of the Girl Who
Took the Wrong Turning, and continued
round at least three more corners, has had
the success deserved by the fine work put in
in filming it. Some people will accept any-
thing as religious, given an organ and a
choir. Only a collection is needed to make
the sense of “atmosphere” really complete.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Stop yer Ticklin’ ”: To me, at any rate, the most
humorous item of Harry Lauder’s show is the con-
ducting. Harry’s accompaniments seem to be plain,
straight musical jobs, but the beautifully oiled an
brushed young man who waves the stick goes on as
if he were controlling a Wagnerian outburst with his
right and a Puccini- overture with his left. His pro-
fessional manner is dreadfully cold and proud, and
there are moments when he seems to be utterly ais-
gusted and on the point of throwing the melody
from him with both hands. But he comes back with
a dashing bit of cutlass drill which ought to frighten
the man with the trombone, but doesn’t. Sometimes
he tickles the atmosphere, and sometimes he sweeps
fantods together and beckons beautifully to nothing
—or it may be to a vanishing scrap of thistledown.
There are moments when he leans down beautifully
and seems to be about to confide the whole of his
past life to the first violin; but he draws hack in
time and straightens his spine, and resumes the look
that Julius C®sar might have worn if he had been
an actor instead of a soldier. If the people in the
boxes and the front stalls had any attention to spare,
they would notice the way he looks down on them
and crawl miserably under their chairs. Some of
them might even whine pleadingly like dogs, while
he is giving his performance his humble players
stare gloomily at their illuminated music and blow
and saw “The Haggis in the Heather,” or whatever
heavy Scotch item is being dealt with. I like that
conductor better than the panting genius who labor-
iously twiddles a large reel on a piece of string. If
I may say so, the conductor is a better twiddler
than the other gentleman; he is a master-twiddler,
and .can twiddle in time to music. The music would
probably go on just the same if he ceased to twiddle ;
but the fact remains that he is twiddling with it
all the time.
The Rickards-Mclntosh firm has been charged with
antagonism to Australian talent. As a matter of
fact, the management is anxious for local ability-
provided always the local goods are up to quality.
Unfortunately, while the quantity is here, the quality
is not so plentiful. Once a week trials are given
to aspirants at the co.’s theatres, and, taking Sydney
as an example, half a dozen or so turns are tested
as an average. Originality is the missing link
between the trial and the booking list. The ten-
dency is to copy imported vaudevillains, generally
with fatal results. On the other hand, Australians
who think out a turn for themselves generally win
a place on the programme. Two instances of this
pccurred at Svdney last week. A brace of jugglers,
billing themselves as Hennessy and Martell (it may
be that brandv is no part of the advt.), and a pair of
acrobats, styled the Clardy Bros , having been given
a trial, were passed to the programme on Thursday
night, and with a little native intelligence in their
business won the audience straight away. Both turns
were smartly booked by that keen young party,
Clifton Clarke, who puts in his time making the
Mclnsplosh co. richer. But a catch like that is
unusual. Out of six or seven turns tried-out weekly
in the Sydney. Tivoli, one success a fortnight is about
all that can be banked on. And, as has been said
before, this is mostly due to a pertinacious habit of
copying the imported article. The imported article
is a snare and a false bottom.
“Moana”: The Foxton (M.L.) Borough Council 12
months ago started a municipal picture theatre, and
the result of the first year’s run is a profit of £9OO.
(There are less than 2000 people in Foxton.) A
unioue feature of the business is a free weekly
matinOe for school children, at which the majority
of the pictures are educational. Those persons who
are always anxious to hurl bricks at socialistic enter-
prise are requested to glance round at the numerous
Private Enterprise flicker shows, and observe how
much of the profit thereof is devoted to reducing
the local rates, and what a lot of free# educational
shows are given for the children.
“Lelaminer”: A Poverty Pointer
speaks of stalwart Gordon Carter in
his capacity of concert manager for
the Palmer-Beaumont co., but says
nothing of the “concert-direction”
scheme in which he and the late Glad-
stone Wright had Sir William Robin-
son behind them. It was “queered”
by a tragedy. Gladstone Wright, a
popular Melbourne baritone and vocal-
ist, was engaged to sing solos in an
oratorio performance by the Geelong
Liedertafel, and at the final rehearsal
he sang “It is Enough” with so much
force and feeling that the Liedertafel
choristers begged him as a favor to do
it again. Next morning he died in
his bath. Gov. Robinson returned to
England soon afterwards, and died
likewise. Meanwhile Gordon Carter
wasted no time in deploring his bad
luck with what had looked a very
promising musical spec. He took up
with the Vic. Public Service —as a
draughtsman, or something—and is
known nowadays as a : smart citizen
who is always well-informed about
persons and things. The last public
entertainment wherein Carter figured
conspicuously was Alf Lumsden’s can-
didature for the Frank Madden seat
in the Vic. Assembly. It was a
vigorous attempt to bump the weighty
Tory out of his place, and it nearly succeeded.
“H.F.” (from India) : Pretty Florence Imeson died
suddenly in Rangoon on April 23. She was one of
the principals in “Sinbad the Sailor,” last year’s
J. C. Williarnson pantomime in Australia. At the
time of her death she was playing lead in Band-
mann’s Opera Co.
Australia’s old friends, Fred Elton and wife, bill-
ing themselves patriotically as “The Australian
Eltons,” have been keeping up their reputation away -
over. Last letters were from Cairo stating that they
were to play at Toulon, Monte Carlo and Nice, with
a long string of foreign places to follow. As usual,
they are receiving from the distant managers about
double the money they drew in Australia.
“Harrison O.”: “J.F.H.” mentions (B. 28/5/’l4)
that the London stage is threatened with a translation
of Maeterlinck’s “Mary Magdalen.” The thing is
.stodge redeemed by two dramatic situations, both
stolen from a better drama —Paul Heyse’s “Maria von
Magdala.” The finest situation in “Mary Magdalen”
occurs at the end of the first act: the crowd is threat-
ening Mary, when Christ (represented by a voice off
stage) intervenes with “He that is without sin among
you, let him first cast a stone at her.” The stones
are dropped and the curtain rung down on an effect-
ive scene. But the German poet made use of exactly
the same idea long before Maeterlinck wrote his play.
The bullet charges high fees for its les-
sons. —lan Hamilton.
A grandson of Governor Blighj who ruled
in Sydney one hundred and odd years ago,
died at Blackheath (N.S.W.) a few days
ago. W. R. Bligh was 86 years of age, and
a bachelor. He had resided in Australia tor
76 years, and had a remarkable collection
of sketches and papers of the stormy times
when his grandfather reigned in Botany Bay.
Victoria’s Premier Watt went to St. Arnaud
lately and assaulted a Labor policy of his
own manufacture. His brightest conten-
tion seems to be that Labor wants to divide
up all the capital in the country every lm-
day night. “If,” said he, “the whole of the
products of Victoria for 1912 were divided
among its actual breadwinners, each would
get £Bl 10s.” This idea of an equal division
is sublimely ridiculous, of course; but, after
all, is it worse than the system, approved by
Fat Liberalism, under which 99 per cent, ot
the wealth of the State is in the hands of 9
per cent, of the population?
J. H. N. A. Burnes, who died a few days
ago at Wellington (M.L.), after managing
the M.L. Shipping Co.’s affairs there for 16
years, was born in Melbourne 55 years ago.
His father was Adam Burnes, who opened
the business of the Oriental Banking Cor-
poration in the shaky isles, and afterwards
was the first general manager of the
National Bank of M.L. The just-deceased
son joined the Wellington branch of the
M.L. Shipping Co. when a youth, and re-
mained with the co. for the rest of his life.
He was for some time in Dunedin, and was
then chief clerk in the head office at Christ-
church until he was pushed up to be man-
ager of the important branch where he had
once been office boy.
A one-time bulky figure in Maoriland
politics will fade out this year. J. A. Millar,
M.H.R., has announced that he will not
contest another election. Millar was sec-
retary of the Federated Seamen’s Union at
Dunedin when the maritime strike of ’9l
fractured the peace, and the ability _ he
showed in fixing up the trouble led him into
the Reps, in ’93. Since then he has never
been defeated, and has been conspicuous
throughout his 21 years’ service. He was
chairman of committees for many years, and
held the portfolio of Labor and Marine, in
the Ward Government for a period. When
King Dick Seddon’s power was greatest
Millar was his close associate in the promo-
tion of industrial legislation. During the
last couple of years his health generally and
eyesight particularly have urged him to go
out of the political wrangle, and at the age
of 59 he obeys.
“The Fool”: This dull world would be
less dull if it were made a criminal offence
for the routine millions who follow in
father’s mental footsteps to blight and damn
the work of any original-minded person by
sneeringly referring to it as “Smith’s Folly.”
or “Brown’s Folly.” Last week the cable
told how a successful flying machine, in-
vented in the aerial long ago by a Dr.
Langley, was reposing in the Smithsonian
Institute, whither it had found its way after
being ridiculed by thousands of heavy-
footed, heavy-minded hum-drummers who
wouldn’t admit (even after a successful
demonstration of the fact) that any man
could fly, simply because father couldn’t fly,
and grandad never got his unenlightened
heels off the ground, except when he went
heavily upstairs to sleep the sleep of the
incurably fat-headed. I once lived in an
exceedingly comfortable and picturesque
house that had been somebody’s “Folly.”
The front door was on the flat roof, and
you went downstairs to bed, and eventually
found the front garden outside the kitchen
at the back, where the ordinary house has a
dusty backyard and a greasy dustbox and a
filthy lane. But the place was admirably
suited to its situation; because it backed on
to a waterside cliff and had a view of Sydney
Harbor and a water frontage. However,
somebody afterwards bought it, did away
with the splendid flat roof, and put up peaks
of slate, so that the Australian snow
wouldn’t accumulate and smash the place.
Only the cats and sparrows go up there
now, and somebody’s “Folly” is regarded by
the unthinking neighbors as quite sane.
What a horrible time the first ape that
walked must have endured!
William Read Bloomfield, the Auckland
(M.L.) solicitor who perished in the Em-
press of Ireland, was one of several brothers
who inherited much wealth from Captain
Read, a relative who gave up the sea and
acquired a big area of land in the Poverty
Bay district. When Te Ivooti swooped down
on "that neighborhood in 1868 he marked out
the ex-mariner and his relatives for atten-
tion ; but a farm-hand from an adjoining
homestead warned the household, which in-
cluded Mrs. Bloomfield and her children.
W.R.B. married a Miss Clark, one of Auck-
land’s handsomest girls, and she and a
daughter went down with him. Lucas
Bloomfield, a well-known M.L. yachtsman,
is a brother.


INDESTRUCTIBLE!
ENGLISH.MADE HORSEHIDE
SHOOTING BOOTS, AT
One pair of these Horsehide Boots, subjected to con-
tinuous rough wear, will last longer than three pairs
of any ordinary make of boot.
37)6
The illustration shows the style,
but no illustration could convey
any idea of the great strength and
durability they possess.
If- STRONG boots are required,
these are THE boots. They have
round toes and waterproof, welted
soles 37/6 pair
Sent Carriage Paid
Throughout Australasia.
n
DAVID JONES, LTD.,
Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
%o5Xh
Vacuum Oil Co.
Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand
SOCIETY
A newspaper row has been raging in Syd-
ney—one of those genteel disturbances in
which all parties pretend they don’t know
the others are speaking. The Sun began it.
In a large advt. it boasted of a daily circu-
lation of 68,000, and, with violet-like mod-
esty which was highly characteristic, went
on to claim that it remained in more Sydney
and suburban homes than any morning
paper. The Telegraph, maddened at the
injurious inference that it was more liable
to be used as a meat-wrap than the Sun,
immediately came out with the following
The circulation of the Daily Telegraph is 81,947.
Actual circulation is the basis of value, not mythi-
cal calculations of the percentage of that circula-
tion which “remains” in the homes.
Also it spoke bitterly of “tricky announce-
ments” and of statements made, possibly,
with “reckless disregard of truth.” Some
days elapsed, and then the aged S. M.
Herald lumbered in, like some right-think-
ing dinosaur, with the following over the
name of reputable accountants
We have examined the books in connection with the
issue of the Sydney Morning Herald, and we certify
that the Average Daily Circulation for the months
of January, February and March, 1914, after deduct-
ing Returns from, all sources, was as under: —
January 116,825
February 116,847
March 120,274
It looks like a knock-out; but one can never
know, of course, till the referee has done
counting. And, anyhow, the Dog-leg Creek
Argus and Mudville Banner have yet to
be heard from.
Several policemen, giving evidence before
the Victorian blousing Commission, have
deplored the mistaken policy of shooing Flos-
sie from her old city haunts. The lady merely
spreads herself over a wider area, they say,
with the result that upright burghers, who
wear goloshes and belong to musical soci-
eties, are liable to wake up in the night and
find their street infamous owing to Flossie
hitting taken the house next door. Although
the landlord who suspects his tenant
generally sees to it that the lowness of her
ethics is reflected in the highness of the
rent, other landlords in the vicinity soon
begin to suffer from a lack of competition
for their humpies. Flossie is, therefore,
looked upon as an enemy of Propputy. Really,
the girl should be requested to behave her-
self before she drives Capital -out of the
country.
Cable to the Argus :
Whilst their Majesties the King and Queen were
attending a matinee performance at His Majesty’s
Theatre on Friday, a suffragette who had chained
herself to a seat in the stalls shouted “You Czar.”
Another woman, chained to the adjoining seat,
shrieked “Gagged.” A third woman clambered on
to the stage and harangued his Majesty, and suffra-
gette leaflets were showered into the stalls past the
front of the Royal Box. Their Majesties remained
unmoved.
What an example of kingly courage ! In the
teeth of overwhelming danger, not a muscle
quivered, not a hair stood on
end, not a royal eye blinked.
All round suffragettes were hurl-
ing leaflets into the stalls, any
one of which might have hit his
Majesty violently, or damaged
the Queen’s coiffure. And they
sat unmoved! No ordinary
peonle could have done it, of
course: but blood and training
will tell.
MANNERS.
THE SERGEANT: “Come, come, now, yous bhoys! Pwhat’s all this noise about?"
BILLY JONES: “I been insulted! Jist because I didn't lift me lid to his tart ’e called
me a woman-hater .”
“Dog Watch”: Taken from the Melb.
Argus (23/5/T4) :
WANTED, MARRIED COUPLE, institute keeper,
Church of England ; no children. Apply letter, refer-
ences, Chaplain Missions to Seamen, Australian
Wharf.
Yet I suppose any Sunday you could hear
that parson repeating the commandments to
the multitude: “Increase and multiply”;
“Suffer little children to come unto Me.”
Does anybody know for sure what com-
mandments of the Master these clerical
bookmakers believe in?
RECIPROCATED.
BOSS (to blackboy who has ashed pa mission to leave): “All right, Jachy! You may go.
You know it's immaterial to me."
J ACKY: “ Yeh, by cripe, boss. It bin di’bolical to me, too."
Last week a collier hurled itself at the
Empress of Ireland, a Canadian liner carry-
ing close on 2000 people, and within a few
minutes a thousand lives were lost. The
vessels were near the land at the time ; the
sea was calm; the wireless apparatus was
in working order; there was a full comple-
ment of boats aboard. Yet the captains and
their crews were as impotent to retrieve the
situation as if they had been participators in
a marine disaster of a thousand years ago.
When the Titanic went to the bottom, two
years back, it was decided by the ship-owners
that nothing of the sort was ever to happen
again. But the really unsinkable ship has no
more been achieved than the undrownable
passenger. The position therefore is that if a
modern liner hits another ship, or an ice-
berg, hard enough, it must sink, and with
such swiftness that few of those aboard
have any hope of escape. Is it worth while?
The hurry-up policy on sea, as on shore, is
a matter of business. But all business is a
matter of competition. If no ship or train
were allowed to travel more than five miles
an hour no one would be disadvantaged much
by the leisurely progress. Until the unsink-
able ship does appear there seems to be .only
one way of tackling the problem. Let it be
made a criminal offence for the captain of
any ship, of any sort, to mqye bis. craft a
yard during a fog; and let him be forced by
law to go so dead slow when icebergs or other
perils are about, that no great damage will
be done even if there is a collision. This
will cause the loss of hours of valuable time,
of course. But it will prevent the loss of
thousands of priceless lives. There is a world
in mourning, at the present moment, because
a collier insisted on tearing sightlessly about
the face of the waters in an insane effort
to deliver a ton or so of coal a few hours
earlier than might have been the case had
the vessel waited for the fog to lift. This
sort of risk is being taken everywhere, every
day, and the price which Death demands
when the gamble fails to come off is more
than the world can afford.
The system under which a small mayor
and a handful of smaller aldermen run each
of Sydney’s half-hundred suburbs got a
whole series of bad advertisements one day
last week. Mosman’s aldermen, as a rule,
now merely yawn when anyone mentions a
disgraceful road; but when the Good Roads
Association suggested that it should form a
working bee to fill in the worst chasms, the
council fairly leaped at the idea, and went
so far as to offer the street-roller free of
charge. On the same day, at Randwick,
the sanitary inspector complained about the
Coogee Public School’s outhouses, which have
been in a positively dangerous state for
some time. The council sighed and remem-
bered that months back it had casually in-
formed the Education Department that this
school was a public peril, and had then
forgotten all about it while the germs in :
creased and multiplied. In the end the
inspector Was told to “keep an eye on it.”
About the same hour the North Sydney Coun-
cil, which is particularly busy just now
dodging an electric-lighting scheme, and
whose roads are in a disgraceful condition,
transacted this important bit of business: —
“You’re a liar!” declared Alderman Cowdroy.
Alderman Green roared: “No man ever called me
a liar without eating his words.”
He clambered to his feet, pushed back his chair,
and rushed around the table towards Alderman
Cowdroy. “If I'm a liar, you’re a liar, too!” he
cried.
“You call me a liar!” shouted Alderman Green;
while Alderman Blue hung on to his arms and swung
him round. Alderman Green struggled to get at
Alderman Cowdroy. He waved'his hands and glared.
“You. called me a liar! You are a thing!”
And the electric light is just as far off as
ever, and the roads, according to a man in
the engineering business who lately came
back from his travels, are the worst in the
whole wide world. Meanwhile Holman,
like every other Premier for 25 years past,
professes to be chewing a scheme to estab-
lish a Greater Sydney; but as that means
abolishing the 50-odd superfluous and time-
and money-wasting sets of bumbles, and
creating 50-odd sets of enemies, Holman
isn’t rushing the matter. The only certain
way seems to be to establish in every suburb
a branch of a Greater Sydney League, and
let the politician have an assurance that the
practical ill-will of the bumble will be more
than counterbalanced by the good-will of the
than counterbalanced by the practical good-
will of the leaguer.
COMPENSATION.
[For The Bulletin.]
By mocking bards the wowser’s vext,
Yet he supplies them many a text,
While verses on his sermons queer
Keep many a needy bard in beer.
victoria. GANESIIA.
THE CREED OF THE KILLJOY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A stir has been caused in Methodist circles by
some remarks made by the Rev. Henry Howard, of
Adelaide, who, speaking at Ballarat, called attention
to the “killjoy” element in religion. Some people,
he said, could not even have a picnic without tacking
a prayer meeting on to it. When religion stopped a
man from smiling the sooner it was knocked on the
head and laid out for burial the better. God’s house
should be the happiest place on earth. —Daily paper.
VICTORIA.
Their God’s in His chapel,
All’s glum with the earth!
With happiness grapple,
And exorcise mirth.
In sight of high Heaven
All gladness is vile;
Commandment XI
Is: Thou shalt not smilel
When, clad in gold splendor,
The sun gilds each tree,
And madrigals tender
Are sung by the sea,
Bird lover with lover
Conversing the while,
Beware lest joy hover!
Take heed lest ye smile!
When moonbeams step lightly
On silver-shod feet,
The waves, rising slightly
These wooers to greet,
Star-strewn with confetti,
Thou shalt not beguile
Fair Flo or bold Betty
To frivol and smile.
Though girls be alluring,
And wine richly red,
Gloom shall be enduring,
Joy die and be dead!
The music of laughter
God’s air would defile!
Beware the hereafter,
O fools, if ye smile!
The creed of the Killj'oy
Thus briefly is told.
For us there is still joy
Astray from the fold.
One vice worth the winning
We’ll cherish a while,
One sin worth the sinning—
The sin of a smile!
HARRISON O.


Do you shave yourself? If so you can
get the best results by using a Diamond Edge (brand)
razor; price 7s. 6d. and 10s. 6d. each, postage 6d.
extra. Also sole agent for Apex. Hair Restorer, a
true hair-grower, 4s. 6d. and 12s. 6d. a bottle. Sup-
plied only by T. Wild, 30 Sydney Arcade, Sydney.*
A PLEASANT TONIC FOR ANYBODY WHO IS
"RUN DOWN.”
There are many people having no serious
ailment who yet feel “run down ’’ or out of
condition. Appetite is capricious, digestion
imperfect, and there is a general feeling of
depression and lack of vitality. In most of
these cases, the trouble is due to some de-
rangement of the digestive functions, and once
this is corrected, there is an immediate return
to normal health and vigour. It may be con-
fidently stated that for this “run down”
condition and for correcting digestive irregu-
larities, there is nothing better than a course
of Angier’s Emulsion. This remedy not only
promotes appetite and soothes and strengthens
the organs of digestion, but it exerts a most
invigora'ing tonic influence upon the general
health. Angier’s Emulsion is pleasant to take,
and agrees perfectly with delicate stomachs. It
is recommended for lung troubles, digestive and
bowel disorders, and for “all run down”
conditions and wasting diseases. It is par-
ticularly successful in those “run down’’
conditions associated with nervous symptoms,
and also in those numerous cases, that are
due to an unhealthy condition of the digestive
organs, with faulty assimilation. It must not
be forgotten that Angier’s Emulsion exerts its
full soothing, healing, disinfectant action
throughout the entire digest ve area, therefore
it is of value even to the average healthy
person, because it keeps the digestive organs
in a normal healthy condition to perform their
functions naturally thus making the use of
pills unnecessary. For twenty-one years it has
been prescribed by the medical profession, and
is a recognised standard remedy of proved
value that may be taken with absolute confi-
dence. Of all chemists at 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
Correct and Distinctive!
In the Peapes’ Ready-to-wear Dinner Suit the strictly-
formal style has been preserved, but a decided indi-
viduality is introduced by distinctive cutting and
superior finish. It is made of Black Cashmere Twill
with peaked lapels, seams and vent back, Best Silk
Facings; Vest cut with long peaks; Trousers in the
prevailing fashion, tapered to fit neatly over boots.
The suit can be despatched by return mail should a
client desire to have it in time for some particular
function.
Full Suit... £3 12s. 6d.
Coat 0n1y... £2 ss.
Please state chest, waist and inside leg measurement
when ordering.
PEAPES 8 CO. LTD.,
□□QT ?
XL
Men’s Outfitters, 309-311 George Street, Sydney
One of the lady petitioners in the Mel-
bourne Divorce Court last week stated that
her husband was bitterly disappointed at not
getting “at least £1000” with her, and had
afterwards complained that his marriage
had “dragged him down” —meaning that he
was much better off when he lived with his
doting mother and five sisters. Truth, as a
rule, is an unpleasant thing. Evidently the
bridegroom in this case was disappointed,
and his marriage did “drag him down,” in
a financial way of speaking. But his wife
felt aggrieved by his frank reference to
simple facts. Moral: Never tell the truth
to your wife. Leave it to her to say how
much better off she was when she lived with
mother.
The block of land at the corner of Moore
and Pitt streets, Sydney, including Richard-
son and Wrench’s auction room, was sold
recently on behalf of absentee Henry Bull
to the London Bank for £75,000, which works
out at £ISOO per foot. The Pitt-street fire
of IS9O wiped out the City Bank, Henry
Bull’s warehouse and Edwards, Dunlop and
Co.’s premises. That gave the chance to
widen Moore-street, originally known as Fox-
low Place. Bull’s lot was, in consequence,
cut through, leaving him the little bit on
which he built Martin’s Chambers. Over
one hundred years ago, on the site of Rich-
ardson and Wrench’s, stood an inn kept by
Mathew Kearns, and licensed by Governor
Macquarie. Where Moore-street adjoins the
Bull property there was, half a century back,
another hotel kept by an old showman named
John Hampton. He had an orchard at the rear
—the remnant of the home of John Hosking,
first mayor of Sydney.
The militant suffragettes learned some-
thing from last year’s attempt to stop the
King’s gee-gee in the Derby. Firstly, they
learned that a lady who rushes out on the
course when the field is coming along can-
not be trusted to grab the particular bridle
she is after. Cranky Miss Davidson last
year didn’t stop the right candidate, neither
did she avoid the destruction of human life,
for she herself died of injuries received on
the? course. Also, the bridle-seizing plan
bristled with possibilities of death among the
jockeys; and suffragettes are sworn to do
nothing that can make business for the under-
takers. So their intention with regard to
this year’s Derby was to shoot the King’s
horse prior to the event. Unfortunately they
talked about their intention, and the police
thwarted it. But there are other notable
deeds of animal-slaughter open to the suffra-
gettes. How about poisoning the Archbishop
of Canterbury’s dog?
Ad. from South Coast (N.S.W.) paper:—
WANTED, Married Man with 3 Milkers. ,
“Milker !” The newest Cow Country syno-
nym for “child.”
RECEPTION GOWNS.
Councillor Molesworth (St. Hilda): “I would like to make a suggestion that those who meet the
new Governor-General will dress themselves properly, especially members of Parliament.”— Age.
THE BULLETIN has no notion of what is proper dress in which to receive a Governor, but
hopes to help with its idea of what isn’t.
A TOUGH JOB.
“Call yerself a dressmaker, do you? Why, I
don’t look a bit like the pattern I giv' you.”
“Pink Tape”: Aubrey Mowle, one of a
family well known in the N.S.W. Public
Service, has achieved 50 years’ service with
the Government, and is still with it. In
1896 he was Chief Clerk in Bankruptcy,
when the Public Service Board retired him.
Mowle, however, wasn’t taking any retire-
ment, and seemed so decided about it that
he was reappointed to the Justice Depart-
ment, and at the age of 66 is still there.
The Public Service Act names 65 as the
retiring age; but the Board, having had one
lesson, isn’t going to make any more mis-
takes in retiring Mowle until it is quite
sure he won’t object. Which is characteristic
o,f the Board. It is great on doing things if
nobody objects.
“The Imbecile”: A
cable from Rome men-
tions that in some re-
cent experiments on
the River Arno with
Ulivi’s electric ultra-
violet (F) rays, a
number of strong metal
bombs, containing Ad-
miralty explosives,
and sunk in various
parts of the stream,
were exploded at a dis-
tance of 10 miles. This
appears to me to alter
the whole Defence
position. Once let
Ulivi’s apparatus be-
come public property,
and the only nation
that will be safe must
be that one which
has no ammunition. I
clearly foresee the
time when the soldier
who is careless enough
to possess an effective
cartridge will b e
clubbed to death by
his terror-stricken com-
rades. Also, no harbor
will be safe which con-
tains a battleship, and
the existence of forts,
cordite factories, etc. —
unless of a purely or-
namental character —
will constitute a peril
to the nation that owns them.
What a justification of the Cook
Defence policy! Furthermore,
how it buttresses the case for
Dreadnausea! Bruce Smith
knew best, after all. With
Ulfvi in the offing, the sooner the Australia
and the Melbourne and the Sydney—not to
mention our destroyers and submarines —are
despatched to the North Sea, the better and
safer for the Commonwealth.
One of the little fleas of the commercial
world was before the Quarter Sessions in
Sydney last week, on the complaint of its big
flea that the little flea was interfering with
the big flea’s business, and spreading reports
with intent to injure it. AVhat is popularly
known as business is to a very large
extent a matter of big fleas and
little fleas and lesser fleas and micro-
scopic fleas; and this little argument amongst
fleas was enlightening. The big flea in this
instance was a company which sold coupons
at 245. per thousand to retail traders; the
little flea’s alleged game was to buy up the
coupons at 12s. 6d. per thousand by sending
out canvassers with a tale that the big flea
was calling in its coupons, which would soon
not be worth anything. Incidentally the
young women —still smaller fleas, who were
employed to collect the coupons—received Is.
6d. per thousand; and one of them who gave
evidence said she raked up SOO on the first
day, which meant Is. 2d.- for her work —and
did worse thereafter. Apparently the little
flea reckoned on making its profit out of the
difference between 14s. (l>2s. 6d. plus Is. 6d.)
and 255., the nominal value of the goods
issued for the coupons.- After listening
most of the day to the argument of the legal
fleas engaged to expensively argue the matter
(without any regard to the Law’s expensive
time), the Judge advised the jury to acquit
the little flea on the ground that the big flea
had not proved any of the facts of the alleged
conspiracy. In fact, all the insects were
told to go forth and pursue the business of
being fleas for all they are worth.
* * * *
“First Aid” : Surgical science should have
something to say about the death of Charles
Peterson, the plucky Melbourne man who
was in the railway smash at Whangamarino
(M.L.) last week. Peterson was caught
between the shattered walls of a sleeping car
compartment, with his head projecting
through the window. As long as the weight
of debris pinned him down he could breathe
easily; he called out to his two companions
to “cheer up,” and talked hopefully to the
people who were trying to raise the ddbris.
When part of the weight was removed he
cried, “That is better,” but when it was all
off him he exclaimed “I’m gone,” and
breathed no more. Now, what was the imme-
diate cause of Peterson’s death? The re-
moval of a pressure which alone had enabled
his heart to keep going, or the shock of the
relief to his crushed body?
* * * *
“Overseas”: In last Bulletin there is a
reference to A. N. Bishop, -the Overseas Club
and the Empire Day service in Melbourne
Cathedral. These are the facts. There are
two Overseas Clubs in Melbourne, both with
their own brass plates and offices. The
“English” branch in Collins-street is gain-
ing strength every day on account of the
discontent that exists in the “Melbourne”
Branch. Bishop is not secretary of the “Eng-
lish” branch; he is chairman of the council.
The Anglican Archbishop gave full power
and control of the Empire Day service over
to the “English” Branch, which ran it well
and filled the Cathedral with invited guests.
The Revolution progresses. The other
day a London work-house decided that in
future every pauper inmate shall have a
bath once a month. More than that, the
derelict is to have it in water that has not
been previously used. Hitherto the pauper
who asked for H 504 was usually given
mud.
COMPARISONS.
“Dear me! What a hideous costume those
poor natives wear! Thank Heaven I live
in a civilised country."
It’s a difficult job to nail llie elusive dairy
farmer wlio lias a diseased milker or two in
the herd, but a N.S.W. North Coast inspector
got ahead of a couple of the kidney lately.
As a result, David Boag and John Weir
were cited before the Lismore Police Court
charged with selling milk from tuberculous
cows. In both cases the animals (four-
legged) bore outward and manifest signs of
the disease. Each of the owners had noticed
the lumps, etc., but didn’t even suspect what
the trouble was. The magistrate said
“Guilty” twice, and fined Boag a whole £l.
Weir had to produce £5, the discrepancy in
the fines being due to the fact that a tick
inspector had told Weir on two or three
occasions that his milk-producCr was badly
diseased and should be destroyed. So he
couldn’t plead that he hadn’t received warn-
ing. The total fines of £6 wills likewise be a
warning—to inspectors not to take up the
time of the Bench with such trivialities.
OLD HIGHLAND LAMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Senate decided, by 16 votes to 11, to dis-
allow the use of the kilt in the Australian Army.
—News item.
The skirl of the auchinleclt faints on the breeze,
And the pibroch that flapped round McDougall’s bare
knees
Hangs as limp on the line as a lythe on the loose,
Since they did for the kilt i’ the Federal Iloose.
The bairnies may howl and their elders deplore,
But the sporran has gone. We shall see it nae more.
Like the stag, when assailed by a grilse fra’ the rear,
It has vanished for ever, I very much fear.
There is wailing this day on the moors of Balmain ;
And the glens of St. Hilda re-echo amain
With the protests of deeply distressed,
At the thought of their relatives being undressed.
The ghillies of Pitt-street have sprung to the ca’
Of the Chieftains fra’ Randwick and Coogee and a’ ;
And the bars are chock-full, fra’ the North to the
South,
And great is the anguish, and greater the drouth.
The moss-hags o’ Melbourne, the peat-hills 0’ Cairns,
Auld cronies and gaffers, and wee stickit bairns,
All join in the view that the thing’s a disgrace,
And a Sassenach spier at the whole Scottish race.
Brief interval here for embittered brooding, aftei
which, more brightly: —•
Then stamp on the haggis and cast out the brose,
And likewise the dirkie and tartan and hose ;
Awa’ wi’ the bonnet and feather and grants,
And let us fare forth, lads, and borrow some pants.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


Tlie number of workless men in the
metropolitan district was roughly esti-
mated at 3000. To-morrow the largest
contingent of immigrants received in
Melbourne this year will arrive by the
steamer Indrapura.—Age.
Mr w. A. Callaway, inspector-general
srtrsrsrsi.-sss.s
rr“xr-c=^
rrr^sr,r”3^r-
i*h>
<*■
ifs r.o
,w v *£« K t*^ tewr v^i ~ r
Judge(Sev«-ely)>y<*k are Screed
'lS'six mcm-tfe orde^ d ' fsr
"be Vso«e V * du, y * u %;S ed
Comedian for periods «f "at" |e SS
-tvo \quY<2 in Tnt first's tnird
sc§\ $ tnonrfjof’your CPnfirtemfintT
i?# [ord w>ercy ov> yot»\r
s®«l*
In the Getnbrook ' be low"
so satisfied with tenacity
that refuse to dle. n« ufe geewB
with which they " g diBap pointment to
to have caused some ’ “ “ who have
the local cemetery b wause there Is no
upon. —News item.
II ill \ % »
Mr. Wcstrop. a student at the Royal
College of Science, has discovered ati
unknown, tiny, (lark brown insect which
destroys the delicate grass on golf links,
—News item.
Ctarcrrce ' Tir^ t"
jjoyj iwies 'jo 'f2o<-
bVobteti'y vnfiVf" oml^ oj 1 e>i^fe»rcc•
ljf<2r, m Wy
insult' , 2v wo'fter?
litfle ivrsecT is slVtf»Tg
'"fec\r u|> our linKS 1 Sty I
% l5 ife My Emj>iaj7j
-fc *? j
rooK UnJ&r-i"avK.tr»-
"■ (jAKSe yot* g you
Jet” fellow live
WINTRY DAYS IN MELBOURNE.


THE CONCEALED FRUIT.
THE LIB. BARROWMAN: “Don’t you buy his bananas! They’re rotten!"
THE LAB. DITTO: “Here, sonny, you make him show his bananas before you turn down mine. His are rottener."


“A Journalist and Two Bears.” A collection of
the tales and verse of James Edmond, reprinted
from The Bulletin and The Lone Hand. Price
One Shilling, from all booksellers, or 13 pence direct
from the publishers, The Platypus Press, 117 Bath-
urst Street, Sydney.*
GAELIC WHISKY
is now supplied in the
NEW PATENT NON-REFILLABLE
GUARANTEE BOTTLE.
The characteristics of GREAT
AGE, PURITY and QUALITY
have been moist carefully pre-
served.
Agents: ORME, KEICWINSCO.Ltd.
269-271 George Street, Sydney.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS
For
DURABILITY.
NABOB BOOT PASTE,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney.
EVERY DAY
more people are proving that
!L
X
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics- Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub—lengthens the
life of the clothes.
J
r
\ . >6
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
tEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SYDNEY)
PERSONAL
ITEMS
[Subsequent to the perpetration of this poem the
Argus . contradicted itself as follows :■ —-
“It appears that an inquiry by telephone of Gov-
ernment House regarding the hyphenating of the sur-
name of his Excellency the Governor-General was
misunderstood, with the result that the information
given and published in the Argus of yesterday was
the reverse of what was intended. The name Munro
Ferguson is written without a hyphen.”
Contradiction not accepted.—Ed. B.]
_ Thomas Wearne, an old Sydney identity,
died last week, aged 80 years. In the mid
’6o’s he established a hardware business in
George-street, and when P. N. Russell and
Co. closed down he started the manufacture
of railway rolling-stock at the Glebe, and
was the first to make iron safes and
strong-room doors in N. S. Wales. A
brother, a flour miller at Darling Harbor,
represented West Sydney in Parliament in
1869-74, and afterwards for a time sat for
Central Cumberland.
The death of Tom Langdon has removed
an ancient Tory partisan from the Yic. Leg.
Assembly. He entered the House some 34
years ago as a supporter of James Service,
and except for a break of three years—from
’B9 to ’92—-he had stayed there ever since.
Recently he was one of the hardshell *Tories
who assisted the Labor party to down the
Watt Ministry, and quickly turned dog on
their strange allies. To speak of Langdon
was to think of the awful Bent. He and
Bent did a lot of land-booming together.
When Bent became Premier he took his old
mate Langdon for Chief Secretary, although
he was already an ancient. He lived to be
Chairman of Committees at the age of 82,
and then he died.
Harold Morrison, police magistrate, just
dead in Melbourne, was a man from whom,
in his best days, it was a pleasure to receive
a month without the option. It was only
during the last year or two, when troubled
with bad health, that the P.M. was snappy
and irritable. When “beak” at Geelong and
in his earlier days at Melbourne City Court
he was almost Cliesterfieldian. A suave man
of the world, he could address drunk and
disorderly females as though they were
duchesses, so that it was not uncommon for
a lady to observe, almost instinctively,
‘Thank _yer, Mister Morrison.” Harold’s
ingratiating style was wasted in the city
court; he would have had more scope for his
talents in collecting subscriptions from
wealthy Jews towards a fund to promote
Christianity. Pew people who were accus-
tomed to seeing the neat figure of the de-
bonair P.M. on the Block would have guessed
his age—to wit 58.
Before John Michael Finnerty, the Westra-
lian goldfields warden who recently departed
to a higher court, Pagan sued Martin,
his prospecting mate, for half the value of a
nugget found on Sunday. “Don’t you think,”
said Pinnerty, “that the rules of mateship
hold good on Sunday?” Martin was dour. “I
found it in my own time,” said he. “Well,”
said the six-foot Warden, in his high-pitched
voice, “I’l give you lunchtime to think over
it. Adjourn the Court.” When the Court
resumed: “Are you going to divide?” asked
the Warden. “No, you see” began Mar-
tin. “Sergeant,” says Pinnerty, “seize that
nugget. It’s_ the property of the Crown.”
The Westralian Solomon had improved the
lunch-hour by a search of the register. Mar-
tin was not the holder of a miner’s right, and
was not therefore entitled to any gold he
might find. But the big-hearted Warden
would have shut one eye to the Law if Martin
could have been induced to give his mate Jus-
tice.
“Billy B.” : Death got in some more of its
unforgivable work when J. H. N. A. Burnes
was sent for in Wellington (M.L.) a few
days ago. He was general manager for the
big M.L. Shipping Co., trading between
England and M.L. I remember once, as a
shipping reporter, nosing out a scoop regard-
ing the co. To clerks in a shipping office a
waterside reporter is less than an emergency
wharf-lumper. So, for me, it was Burnes
or nothing. Could I see Burnes? “Not on
your tuppenny life!” said the clerks. I
departed and left them to settle behind the
desks. Then I stole through to the G.M.’s
room _ and excused myself breathlessly.
“All right, young chap,” he said; “you’ve got
enough of it to make the rest imperative.
But you haven’t seen me, have you?” I
told him I was blind —but not deaf. Next
day Burnes and I repudiated each other
with embellished language. My friend was
53 when the Enemy cut him off.
E. S. HUGHES , the Righting Canon, of
St. Peter's, Melbourne.
“Tom” Porter has resigned his position as
Deputy Surveyor-General of S.A., and has
been heartily farewelled by the Service. Brit-
ten Jones, who takes his place, has been sur-
veying (or something of that kind) for 40
years; the departmental story is that he has
been on every pastoral run in all South Aus.
except one—and that he saw from a distance.
The Surveyor-General himself is one of the
innumerable Smiths of Adelaide.
DAVID
BARCLAY,
Managing-
Director,
Commercial
Bank of
Tasmania.
Went the way of all flesh, at Christchurch
(M.L.) late in May, Mrs. A. Q. Townend,
probably the wealthiest woman in the
islands, and one of the most charitable. She
was the only child of the late G. H. Moore,
of Glenmark, one of the shepherds who went
to M.L. in the darly days with or
thereabouts, and quickly became Wool
Kings. At one time he owned practically
the whole of Northern Canterbury, but he
gradually sliced it up into small holdings
and sold it for as many pounds per acre as
he had given pence for it. His wealth was
left to his daughter when he finally cut out
about 12 years ago. Exactly what the lady
was worth is not known, but it has been
estimated at various sums from half a mil-
lion upwards.
“Jeames” lays down his Duster and
writes —
■ A cable announces the engagement .of Sir Edward
Carson to a Mrs. Moreton, Frewen. The only person
‘of; the name that I ever heard of had a husband —
and a robust-looking one, too —in the days when
Keep gnd I were footmen, in London; and I re-
member that he once went out to Australia, chiefly
in the interests of the very wealthy league which
was booming Bimetallism, and while there picked
up a Broken Hill mine, out of which he and his
friend Kintore and others made ‘ a pot of money.
However, he may .have died or been divorced, or
something. If Carson’s bride-to-be is the wife of
the M.P. —as he was when I knew him—the engage-
ment is piquant from, several aspects. In the first
place, this clever, auburn-haired little lady was a
violent Nationalist, like her husband, who actually
represented an Irish constituency. Unless her passion
for her. aged admirer causes her to change the poli-
tical convictions of half a lifetime, the position will
be awkward for both parties in England, where one’s
politics are of as much importance socially as one’s
religion. (They would almost as soon admit a
Wesleyan to White’s or Boodle’s as a confessed Nation-
alist. ) Also, she . will be a handicap on Carson in
Belfast. Many a loyal , Derryite will be as infuri-
ated as though Ulster’s: hero had plighted his troth
to a * Papist. As a second reason why the engage-
ment is bound to attract a lot of reclame, Mrs. More-
ton Frewen —assuming, always, that she is the one on
whom I' waited in the old. dead days—as a second
reason, I say, this lady is a sister of Lady Randolph
Churchill, whose sensational divorce stirred Balham
to its very marrow, a few weeks back. She was one
of the beautiful daughters of Leonard Jerome, of
N’York, and made a profound sensation when she
burst on London society quarter of a century ago.
And, finally, Sir Edward Carson’s wife is only just
dead. A flood of newspaper maudlinity was poured
forth on the subject of this unfortunate woman. Her
dreadful illness was used as a kind of publicity
agency for her husband, whose strong, sombre, devo-
tional attitude at the bedside was set forth in bel-
low-dramatic colors. It will effectively put the
kybosh (as we used to say in the Hall) on the
whole business if the stricken widower is now dragged
into’the calcium in the r6le of languishing swain at
the feet of middle-aged allurement. Besides which
it will conflict with his pose of potential martyr in
the cause of Empire. Altogether, in fact, the thing
is regrettable. Still, there is always the possi-
bility (1) that the cable is a lie, (2) that if Ulster’s
leading juvenile is going to marry someone named
Moreton Frewen, it is not the Mrs. Moreton Frewen
who was tso well and favorably known to Heep and
myself in the past.
The Registrar at Melbourne has granted
probate of the will of the late E. E. Smith
(Howard Smith and Co.), a brother of
Bruce, M.H.R. The assets are sworn at
of which £105,176 is real estate
and £147,594 personal. The whole lot is to
be divided between the brothers, sisters and
a niece, which means about £40,000 apiece.
W. H. Crane, the oldest magistrate in
Sydney, died recently, aged 88 years. He
was a Sydney native, born in Castlereagh-
street, and was something of an athlete in
his youth-—the “star” of an academy for
boxing in Brown Bear-lane, off Lower
George-street, known now as Little Essex-
street. He was one of the first six stipen-
diary magistrates appointed; he had been
C.P.S. at the old Central.
No Imperial war-office man has enthused
the soldier veterans of Australasia so much
as General lan Hamilton. Take as a sample
of his methods the remarks he whispered
as he moved along a drawn-up squad in
Maoriland the other day:—
To one old chap: “Ah, you’ve seen some bloody
wars! lam very proud, sir, to meet you.’’
To another: “Do you feel cold, sir? Would you
like to fall out ? I should feel blame if you suffered.”
To another, with a museum of medals: “Ah, an
open book ! And medals for life-saving. That’s very
fine; very fine indeed! I’m pleased and proud to
meet you, sir.”
Hamilton has been called “Unlucky Ham-
ilton,” but it wasn’t on account of his per-
sonality.
“Hamer” reintroduces a dusty warrior:—
After the final curtain of N.S.W.’s recent bellow-
drama, entitled “Day Baking or Berlud,” one of the
supers refused to go home. He hauled up the cur-
tain, turned the limelight on himself, and took the
centre of the stage. Of course it was Andy McKye,
the Manly baker, of a thousand legal and other rows.
Andrew was “the rich baker” of a couple of elections
ago—the Liberal whose fine for non-observance of the
bakers’ award was reduced, for no apparent reason,
by the Wade Government. Since then he has been
up against the industrial law on a number of
occasions, and has mostly been fined good and hard.
Also, he has paid with unfailing geniality. Strangely
enough, he is on good terms with the Union. Its
officials know that it is only an inclination to ob-
stinately argue matters that leads to the trouble,
and, as they usually win, they are prepared to let
Andrew have his fun if he cares to pay for it. On
the present occasion he refused to recognise the com-
promise, and, having secured some men who were
prepared to continue on the old conditions, he
announced his intention of sticking to his new men
and his old conditions, agreement or no agreement.
Also, relying on Justice Rich’s award, he prosecuted
the men who refused to work on the old conditions,
and, for about the first time on record, he won his
case. A great fighter is Andrew. In fact, he is
commonly suspected of only going on baking in order
to earn sufficient wherewith to finance his law-suits.
Colonel “Harry”
Chauvel, who goes
to England shortly
as military repre-
sentative of the
Comm onwealth,
vice Colonel Legge,
returned to Aus-
tralia on promo-
tion, is one of the
numerous Queens-
land officers who
rank high on the
Australian Gen-
eral Staff. He
began his trade
with the Q.M.1.,
and when war
burst out went as
a company com-
mander to Chowth
Africa. His work
as Chief of Staff
in Queensland and
Victoria has been
very solid, and, as
he is young for his
rank, he should
get higher yet.
J. H.
VAUGHAN ,
M.L.C. (S.A.).
It may be that B. R. Wise’s appointment
as a Commissioner to inquire into the col-
liery conditions of N. S. Wales is an omen.
His predecessors in this job were Edmund
Barton, of the High Court, and Chief Jus-
tice Cullen, of N.S.W.
THE HY-PHEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Despite the fact that the surname of his Excel-
lency the Governor-General (Sir Ronald Munro-Fer-
guson) is printed in the official books of reference
with a hyphen, the Commonwealth Gazette, just
issued, announcing his appointment, gives the name
without a hyphen. This, it appears, is an error,
and on referring the question to Government House
it was learned that the hyphen is to he used.
— Melb. Argus.
When the Commonwealth Gazette —
This is mentioned with regret—
Announced Sir Munro Ferguson’s appointment
As the vice for Britain’s King,
For the King whose orb and ring
Have been sanctified by Heavenly anointment,
A rumor, flying round,
Spread astonishment’ profound
(All rumors gather credence as they ripen)
That Munro and Ferguson
Were no longer two in one,
For the printer had forgot to print the hyphen.
Oh, the hyphen, the hyphen,
The link those names were needing;
The thing in print
That seems to hint
At noble birth and breeding,
And oft-times is misleading—
The hyphen, the hyphen,
We missed it much when reading
The notice in last week’s Gazette.
O printer, are you heeding?
Unless you’d get us more upset
Pay due respect to etiquette,
And, for the future, don’t forget
The Hyphen-—-
The well-connecting,
Genuflecting,
Snob-affecting
Hyphen 1
Be it definitely known
To supporters of the Throne
That his Nibs, in vice-regality apparelled,
Who was borne the other day
In a warship down the bay,
Has a surname which is rightly double-
barrelled. j
Let the whisky bottle pass,
Put a drappie in your glass,
And fill it up with soda from a syphon ;
Raise it high and cry, “Here’s fun!
“Ronald Munro-Ferguson!”
And be carefu’ to pronounce it wi’ a hyphen.
Oh, the hyphen, the hyphen,
It dignifies and blesses.
That mighty link
Of printer’s ink
Undoubtedly impresses
The snobs and the snobesses.
The hyphen, the hyphen!
The bard himself confesses
The notice in last week’s Gazette
Overwhelmed him with distresses.
Munros and Fergusons he’s met
Who were not in'the Naicest Set;
But quite suggestive of Dehrett
Is Hyphen—
The awe-compelling,
Bosom-swelling,
Money-telling
Hyphen.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


yanc
TOBACCO
■jT
s
Isa
CJ
m
<fcu.
rrrx:
f n
F^lH'OT
[ Ai
m
V.
m
uw
* <J *§feoO<*sp
CO*
&
:*s
5674
w
££
£*
Australia’s National Smoke
CUT (IN TINS) FLAKE OR MIXTURE.
ALSO IN PLUG FORM
“Havelock” is a
good pal on the
links.
He brings con-
solation when
the game is
going badly and
adds to the
satisfaction of
the well played
shot.
THE
PIPE
OF PEACE AND QUALITY-
-400
ve ry P'P e Guara nteeH


S iBh ~ cias ? Woodworking Machinery 8 Engineers’ Tools
COVENTRY CHAINS FOR MOTOR LORRIES.
Kindly lec us have your enquiries. “ INGECO ” FARM ENGINES.
SIMPSON BROS., 32-34 Clarence Street t Sydney.
BUCYRUiS CO. Mii».„Re.
Steam Shovels, Drag Line Excavators.
Sole Agents-WILLIAM ADAMS (Sb COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of New South Wales :
To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves,
Sept., ’06.. £130,115 10 p.c. =£loo,ooo £30,115£1,502,733
1141,58110,, „ 100,000 26,581 l, ™
Mar., 07.. | £l5 000 voted to Provident Fund /*’ ’
Sept.,’o7.. 142,966 10 p.c. = 110,635 32,331 1,561,645
Mar., ’OB.. 156,742 10 ~ „ 124,399 32,343 1,593,988
Sept.,’oB.. 167,928 10 „„ 125,000 42,928 1,636,916
Mar., ’09.. 176,426 10 ~ ~ 125,000 51,426 1,688,342
Sept.,’o9.. 182,362 10 „„ 125,000 57,362 1,745,704
Mar., ’lO.. 178,939 10 ~ „ 125,000 53,939 1,799,643
Premiums on new shares.. 56,720 1,856,363
Sept.,’lo.. 184,689 10 p.c. = 133,709 50,980 1,907,343
Premiums on new shares.. 46,735 1,954,078
Mar., ’ll.. 201,492 10 p.c. = 143,457 58,035 2,012,113
Premiums on new shares.. 21,545 2,033,658
Sept.,’ll.. 222,043 10 p.c. = 150,000 72,043 2,105,701
Mar., ’12.. 215,115 10 ~ ~ 150,000 65,115 2,170,816
Sept.,’l2.. 214,023 10 „ ~ 150,000 64,023 2,234,839
Mar., ’13.. 259,004 10 „ „ 156,339 102,661 2,337,504
Sept.,’l3.. 250,101 10 ~ „ 168,946 81,155 2,418,659
Mar., ’14.. 275,746 10 ~ ~ 175,000 100,746 2,519,405
Various things have combined to make the Bank of
N.S.W.’s figures larger than they ever were before.
(1) A record wheat crop of over 38,000,000 bushels in
N. S. Wales, as well as a record crop in the Com-
monwealth. (2) An exceptionally good wool clip,
with excellent prices for it. (3) A record sugar
crop in Queensland. And (4) the continuation of
the wild borrowing orgy of the N.S.W. Labor Gov-
ernment, which so far has pawned the State to the
extent of £9,500,000 during the current financial
year. The end of the borrowing boom isn’t yet in
sight either, and isn’t likely to come in sight while
the Government is prepared to bid higher and higher;
its latest loan is costing something like £4 6s. p.c.,
which is the most yet paid. With this combination
of circumstances at present in their favor, it is highly
probable that Australian banks’ profits can’t be
taken as an infallible guide to the future. How-
ever, the majority of the institutions learned a lesson
in the ’9o’s, and have taken, and are still taking,
advantage of general prosperity and high values to
get themselves into a respectably strong position.
Hence though the “Wales” dividend this half-year
calls for only £175,000 out of a profit of £275,746,
the directors have not departed from the apparently
cast-iron rule not to exceed the 10 p.c., so that the
visible reserves benefit to the extent of £100,746.
Meantime, with plenty of money available, the share
capital has been strengthened; it now stands at
£3,500,000 with disclosed reserves totalling
£2,519,405. Shareholders’ funds are thus £6,019,405,
which back liabilities (deposits, etc.) of £43,717,566.
This is equal to slightly over £7 of public money
for every £ 1 of the shareholders’ funds —-a figure
which suggests that capital has not grown any too
fast. Anything over a 7 to 1 ratio, although it may
have the effect of earning larger profits, means poorer
security for depositors and bigger proportionate risks
for proprietors. Certainly the bank may have inter-
nal reserves; but unless almost superhuman skill
has been exercised in dodging bad accounts, the turn
of the tide of prosperity will put many securities on
the rocks, and then these internal reserves will be
called for to set things straight.
Coming to details, this shows the movement in
the past 12 months: —
Mar., 1913. Mar., 1914.
Notes .. £300,129 £277,874 Dec. £22,255
Bills, etc: .. 6,896,696 6,739,876 Dec 156,820
Deposits . . 34,514,842 36,699,816 Inc. 2,184,974
Liquid assets 21,312,576 24,215,065 Inc. 2,902,489
Advances .. 25,383,215 24,829,406 Dec. 553,809
Premises .. 790,000 780,000 Dec. 10,000
The most notable thing here is the extraordinary
growth of deposits ; and since advances have actually
shrunk, the liquid assets are nearly £3,000,000 more
than they were 12 months ago. No doubt it is
pleasant to think that our people are so well off
that they don’t want advances—-are so well off, in
fact, that they are actually repaying some of the
advances they have had. But the position is not
wholly satisfactory. This is a young coun-
try, with a heap of work to do, and with heaps of
raw material to do it with; yet instead of doing the
work and using up the material, it is importing tre-
mendously. In January-April, 1910, the value of
Commonwealth imports was 18 millions; in the first
four months of this year, 26 millions. This means
that, while unused capital has been accumulating in
this and other Australian banks, more and more
foreign capital, as well as foreign labor, has been
given employment; and we shall soon have to begin
asking ourselves very seriously why. There are strikes
besides those of workers. When the worker is dis-
satisfied with his conditions he throws down his tools.
When people with money to invest are dissatisfied
they throw the cash in the bank and leave it there,
instead of calling sometimes for their own and a bit
of other people’s as well. This strike of capital,
though you don’t hear so much about it, may be
almost as disastrous to a young country as the
noisier strikes of labor that you hear so much about.
The next table shows the B.N.S.W.’s experience for a
few years past regarding both deposits and advances:
Increase of Increase of
Mar., Deposits. Advances.
1909 .. £360,642 .. £180,997
1910 .. 3,051,276 .. 356,706
1911 .. 2,916,917 .. 2,370,848
1912 .. 1,892,857 .. 3,215,562
Decrease. Decrease.
1913 .. 643,612 .. 764,639
Increase.
1914 .. 2,184,974 .. 553,809
The deposits increased rapidly a few years ago ; but
note that there was then a keen demand for advances,
too. Now either the bank’s managers or their cus-
tomers evidently doubt the investments offering ; hence
the money piles up in the vaults, or is let out in
short loans in Britain and other foreign places—so
that at present the bank’s holding of cash, Federal
notes and easily convertible assets represents as much
as 55 p.c. of its liabilities to the public. From the
national point of view, the position might be much
better.
The 8.N.5.W., by the way, has just started the
practice of paying dividends quarterly. It is the
first Australian bank to do this. The introduction
of the practice seems to be another reason for assum-
ing that the bank’s 10 p.c. is regarded officially as a
hard-and-fast institution.
* * * *
It is just 21 years since most of the Aus-
tralian banks suspended payment. The Bank of
N. S. Wales was one of the few that didn’t and it
celebrates the coming of age of the achievement by
showing at the end of March total balance-sheet
figures of £50,845,720. Not only is this the first time
the Wales” has exceeded the £50,000,000 mark, but
it is the only Australian concern that ever has. Even
in the boom years round 1890, when John Bull and
James Mcßull had been pouring in deposits and prices
were inflated to bursting point, the B.N.S.W.’s bal-
ance-sheet figures (capital, reserves, deposits, etc.)
were not half what they are at present. This table
shows them, then and now:—
Total Balance-
Deposits. Sheet Figures.
1890 .. .. £18,141,038 £22,793,168
1891 . . . . 18,638,226 23,290,284
1892 . . . . 20,316,677 25,142,413
1893 (Mar.) .. 20,418,943 24,915,614
1893 (Sept.) . . 17,592,713 24,104,168
1894 .. .. 17,421,081 23,695,892
1895 . . . . 17,274,460 24,936,541
1914 . . . . 36,699,816 50,845,720
The figures are for the October-March half-year except
in the case of 1893, the year of the collapse, when
both half-years are shown. Even the mighty A.M.P.
has a good way to go to reach £50,000,01)0 its bal-
ance-sheet showed £11,534,576 in 1892, and
£31,998,746 in 1913—a bigger increase in proportion
to the figures of the earlier year, certainly. A coun-
try with this capacity for coming up again after tak-
ing nine seconds on the floor is worth making a big
effort to hold for the white races. They will want
working room some day.
* * ■* *
Amalgamated Pictures, Ltd. (and we’ll
try to explain what the co. is presently) :
Writ-
Profits. Dividends. ten Off. Deficit.
Mar., 1911.. £11,005
Aug., 1911.. £8,192 11 p.c. =£2277 £3908 8,998
Feb., 1912.. 9,624 10 „ ~ 3035 5416 7,825
Nominal
Reserves.
Assets transferred to other cos. and written
up, apparently (net) £67,228 .. .. 59,403
Pref. Ord.
Feb., 1914.. 11,120 10p.c. = U6QO 5p.c.=£6070 62,853
The development of the moving-picture business has
been one of the wonders of modern times. The
Taits were concert managers in Victoria; they smelt
the boom coming—in fact, by that time, it was
hanging up its hat—and they got into it. Amal-
gamated Pictures, Ltd., was subsequently formed to
buy the Tait business, and this co. afterwards bought
the Australian rights in the kinemacolor film, as well
as various country and suburban picture show-places
or interests in them. But while Amalgamated Pic-
tures, Ltd., was hiring out films and thus taking
bites out of the smaller people in the business, still
bigger people, the film-makers, were taking bites out
of A. P. Ltd. Half a dozen or so biggish show
firms in Australia were competing for the films of
the big foreign producers, and that was very good for
the foreign producers. But the Taits saw that it was
bad business for them, so they invited Spencer’s and
West’s, their principal competitors, to talk things
over. The J. D. Williams Co. may have been in-
vited, too; but it was too busy just then to listen. So
the three first-named combined and formed the General
Film Co. Very soon after this had been fixed up
the management of J. D. Williams Co. was changed ;
and Miller, the new general manager, being willing
to come in on reasonable terms, still another co. had
to be formed. Then, on thinking things over, the
parties decided that it would be better to form two
cos. —-Union Theatres, Ltd., to show pictures; Aus-
tralasian Films, Ltd., to hire them out. The Wil-
liams Co. and the General Film Co. were allotted so
many shares for their goodwill, and the payment for
other assets taken over (stock, etc.) was made by
debenture when not otherwise satisfied. The interest
of Amalgamated Pictures, Ltd., is equal to 43,808
shares of £1 in each of the two cos. or combines,
which have each a capital of £300,000. That in
all is £87,616, face value, as this co.’s holding.
Of course, the greater part of this is paper. The
various cos. didn’t transfer their freeholds and lease-
holds, so that the £300,000 in both cases is repre-
sented chiefly by goodwill, with stock, plant, etc.,
coming a long way after. Exactly how little of this
co.’s £87,616 is represented by tangible assets it is
impossible to say. But as near as The Bulletin
can get, there was something like £67,228 of intan-
gible assets in this co.’s proportion of scrip to begin
with. In other words, scrip was issued to this co.
for that amount over and above the value of its pro-
portion of the tangible assets. The old deficit
(chiefly goodwill) reduced this amount to £59,403;
and a surplus of profits of £3450 for the past two
years, after providing for the dividends, makes the
total nominal reserves £62,853, made up as follows:
Capital realisation reserve, £59,229; unappropriated
profit, £3624. But it must be understood that,' so
far as The Bulletin can see, none of these reserves
are true reserves; that is to say, none are repre-
sented by tangible assets. It is doubtful, in fact,
whether even the entire capital of the co. is repre-
sented by tangible assets. Mere reconstruction didn’t
add one bean to the solid property. As at February,
1912, the solid property was valued at £7825 less
than the capital. The surplus for the two-year period
covered by the present accounts would reduce that
deficit to £4375.
The last previous accounts were made up to
February, 1912. None were issued for the year to
February, 1913, and probably very little profit was
then made; the directors in an interim statement
referred to “the very large amount of expenditure”
which the negotiations, etc., had called for. How
much of the £11,120 of net profit shown for the
two years was made in the last year cannot, there-
fore, be more than guessed at. And the guess would
be unsatisfactory, because the two combine cos. really
do the business, and no credit has been taken for this
co.’s proportion of the two combines’ profits since
July 5, 1913. In other words, as far as can be
made out, though these accounts profess to show the
business up to and at February 28, 1914, the results
of the principal trading for the last seven months
are not included. Obviously the proper course is to
alter the date for closing this co.’s books if the
result of the last 12 months’ trading can’t be shown
reasonably otherwise. The div. on ordinary shares is
stated in the table as 5 p.c. p.a. But, as before re-
marked, no div. at all was paid to February, 1913,
so that the whole amount, equal to 10 p.c. on the
capital, was actually paid as for the past year.
One wants to know two things in particular about
an. investment: (1) What is the security for one’s
principal? (2) What about dividend prospects? The
capital here consists of 12,000 £1 pref. shares and
60,710 £1 ordinaries fully paid; total, £72,710.
Liabilities run to £919, plus mortgages and £4OO
set aside for amortizing the leases. Against this
£74,029, the co. owns the freehold St. Kilda Theatre,
£l9OO (after allowing for mortgage) ; Flinders-street
leasehold, £22,097 (ditto) ; 5 p.c. debentures issued
by the General Film Co. (this was in payment for
stock, etc.), £11,495; cash and book debts, £13,.90,9.„
Total, £49,401. That leaves £24,628 to be repre-
sented by the co.’s interest in the two big cos. and
in various small picture cos. As for future divs., this
picture business hasn’t been going long enough to
justify one in talking definitely. Changes in it are
rapid. For instance, J. C. Williamson, Ltd., have
just decided that, instead of keeping their theatres
empty by day, they may as well use some of them
for pictures. But it doesn’t follow that that will
seriously prejudice this co.’s business. There are
some appetities which grow by what thev feed upon,
and “the pictures” seems to be one of this kind.
* * * *
N.Z. Consolidated Dental Co. (Wel-
lington, M.L.) :—•
Bonus on Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Purchases, serves.
1909 .. £1737 7} p.c. = £1475 £255 £13,616
Reserves transferred to capital, £9756 . . 3,860
1910 .. 1921 6 p.c. = 1766 230 3,785
1911 .. 3912 6 „ „ 1766 251 5,680
1912 . . 2524 7 „ „ 2060 253 5,891
1913 .. 2506 7 ~ „ 2060 222 6,115
1914 .. 2456 7 „ „ 2060 230 6,281
For 16 years this co. has been in the wholesale tooth-
supply business, and has managed to keep its own
molars sharp and active enough to bite off very
decent profits. For a long while the capital was
just under £20,000; then, as shown above, £9765
of share-premium and other reserves went on to the
capital account. Hence on the amount actually paid
the div. is really a good deal better than 7 p.c.
The position looks all right, always assuming that
stock-in-trade, £22,673, is worth that money.' Other
assets include £5OOO in premises and £12,753 in
book debts and payments for stock not yet landed.
On the other side liabilities amount to a very mode-
rate £3752. As for the prospects of the business,
there are not very many things that the public
doesn’t buy less of when times are bad ; and though
when money is scarce the public often decides to put
up with the wreck of what teeth it has got, still the
trade is likely to be less affected by the community’s
ups and downs than most others.
The Perpetual Trustees, Estate and
Agency Co. of Maoriland (Dunedin) :
To Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1902 ..£1799 12} p.c. = £lOl6 £783 £3,425
1903 .. 1359 12} „ „ 1016 343 3,768
1904 . . 2057 12} „ „ 1016 1041 4,809
Premiums on new share issue. . 1332 6,141
1905 .. 2302 12* p.c. = 1093 1209 7,350
1906 . . 2094 12* „ „ 1172 922 8,272
1907 .. 1817 12} „ 1172 645 8,917
1908 . . 2205 12* „ „ 1172 1033 9,950
1909 .. 2516 12* „ „ 1172 1344 11,294
1910 .. 2413 12* „ ~.1172 1241 12,535
IQII ) 2188 15 „ „ 1406 782 \ l9 o 17
1911 ’• | Written off, £lOOO / 12 ’ 817
1912 .. 2343 15 p.c. = 1406 937 13,254
1913 .. 2032 15 „ „ 1406, , 626 13,880
1914 . . 2331 15 „ „ 1406 925 14,805
This co. is 30 years old, and the very moderate size
of the reserves in 1904, when it was 20, suggests that
it saw trouble in its youth. Since then, however, it
has put by £10,000; and the accumulation in 10
years of an amount just in excess of the capital,
though divs. of from 12* to 15 p.c. have been regu-
larly paid, is pretty good proof that the business is
verra profeetable. And the result is all the sweeter
because, unless the directors are greedy enough to put
their funds into doubtful securities for the sake of
big interest, there is very little risk attached. The
co. works on its own money, and hasn’t to stand the
chance of making good a loss on the investment of
somebody else’s. True, like every other trustee co.,
it might fall in through mishandling a trust estate ;
but that could only be through misreading the in-
structions of a testator or disobeying the law. As for
the security of the co.’s own funds nothing much can
be said: £ll,OOO is in unspecified debentures and
£11,780 is in mortgages and leasehold and buildings;
and debentures and mortgages may be very good or
very bad. But as for profits—well, interest and dis-
count alone bring in £1668, and that is more than
enough to pay 15 p.c. on the capital. A very solid
city is Dunedin, arid very solid citizens are on this
co.’s board ; and unless the securities are a great deal
less solid than one would expect them to be, there are
not many concerns in which a fat dividend seems
better assured.
Toowoomba (Q.) Co-operative Insur-
ance Co.:—
Policy-
holders’ Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. Bonus, serves.
1910.. £1664
icm i £707 10 p.c. = £27 £.246 2098
'■ f Transferred to capital, £272 .. 1826
1Q1 „ j 965 10 p.c. = 56 338 2397
( Transferred to capital, £2BO .. 2117
1913.. 793 10 p.c. = 110 308 2492
1914.. 1215 10 „ „ 137 503 , 3067
The co. was started in a very small way to do work-
men’s compensation business; and being very success-
ful in this it d.ecided to take fire risks too. So far
it has had a wonderful lot of luck in the latter de-
partment; though it had £13,000 covered at the
beginning of the year and £31,000 at the end, the
claims paid during the 12 months amounted to only
12s. 6d. This is all the luckier for the co. because
its paid capital is only £1365, and the reserves,
though they have grown wonderfully considering the
capital, are still not so high that,you have to climb
a steeple to see the top of them. On present appear-
ances, things will be all right, though, unless the co.
has outrageously bad luck within the next few years.
It has certainly started the right way—on a local
business with a small capital. The local business is
cheaply got ; it really amounts to shareholders and
their friends giving themselves their own custom.
Last year the exes, were under 15 p.c. of the pre-
miums, or about one-fourth as much as the rate of
some new offices which have set out to capture the
business of the continent. No co. can have a cheap
personal pull over a whole continent. Later on, when
the co. has grown and its name is known in the next
township, it will no doubt go there; and so the busi-
ness will spread cheaply. That is how the Mercantile
Mutual, starting with £lO,OOO in 1878, has managed
to increase its capital and reserves to over £120,000.
Last year it made a profit of £26,000, or £16,000
after giving the policy-holders their bonus.
* * * *
The Country Producers’ Selling Co.,
Ltd. (Sydney), a more or less co-operative concern,
dealing in farm arid station—chiefly station—pro-
duce :
Bonus Writ-
to Con- ten
March, Loss. Dividend. signors. Off. Deficit.
1911.. £660 £660
Profit. Reserves.
1912.. 3590 5 p.c, = £984 £869 1077
1913.. 6975 7} „ „ 1731 2872 3449
1914.. 9058 8 „„ 2000 4237 £lOOO 5270
Not a bad record for a four-year-old, or, more cor-
rectly, a three-year-old, for its first year was merely
a preliminary canter, and it didn’t start in earnest
till three years back. Since then, with the . help of
a run of good seasons, it has shot ahead. But the
progress must stop pretty soon, mainly for want of
capital—which stands at only £25,284. Naturally,
to carry on it has had to get in a heap of outside
money, and has accumulated liabilities of £25,852
(principally on mortgage), which it has put chiefly
into advance. For the past 12 months it has sold
36,947 bales of wool as compared with 33,058 for
the previous 12 months, and has put through 348,142
sheep and 25,917 cattle as against 340,201 sheep and
20,867 cattle in 1912. The hefty bonus the co.
hands out brings down its selling charge to 2 p.c. on
wool and 2} p.c. on fat stock. So far, everything
is particularly cheerful —-except the liabilities.
* * * *
The Trustees, Executors and Agency Co.
(Melb.) has its own ideas about "what the capital of
a trustee co. should be. Already it has £90,000
paid up, while most others reckon that £25,000 or
£30,000 is good enough. But even that doesn’t
satisfy it; hence the directors’ decision to issue
another 40,000 shares, paid to 305., at ss. premium.
This will make the capital £150,000, and the total
reserves about £63,000. The issue will, no doubt,
be a success. The co. averages an 8 p.c. div., and
even 7 p.c. would give a return of 6 p.c. on 30s.
shares issued at 355. Whether the average 8 p.c.
div. can be maintained has yet, of course, to be seen;
but if the average profits for the past five years
( £11,000) continue, a dividend of 8 p.c. could be
paid even if the new money earned only 4 p.c., though
there wouldn’t be much left over for reserves.
* * * *
The big London banks are still busy mop-
ping up the provincial offices. The leaders in the game of
absorption are Lloyd’s, the City and Midland and the
County and Westminster. Lloyd’s was for a while
ahead in deposits ; but last year the City and Mid-
land, by swallowing little banks, swelled up to
£93,800,000, as against Lloyd’s £91,900,000 and the
County and Westminster’s £88,200,000. Since last
balancing, Lloyd’s has shot un again, by absorbing the
Wilts and Dorset, with £12,683,000. The City and
Midland retorts by opening 17 branches in the Wilts,
Dorset, Somerset and Devon region. English banking
records have never before had to chronicle such a
splash as this.
Ivanhoe (W.A.) made a profit of £157,910
for 1913, and with £8577 brought in from 1912
had a surplus of £166,487 to dispose of. Four divs.
absorbing £151,875 were paid, leaving £14,612 tc
carry forward. Working costs showed a slight in-
crease, the reason assigned for this being that heavy
expenses were incurred in plant renewals and in
keeping the upper levels of the mine in good repair.
Ore reserves show a decrease in quantity of 89,433
tons and 2s. Id. in value, compared with the previous
year. The report adds that the co.’s lease has been
renewed by the State Government for a further 21
years without any extra charge, and that when the
year closed the co. had £48,597 cash and bullion in
hand and £184,203 worth of investments. It also
had £24,503 lent out on short loans and £21,506
worth of stores, to say nothing of plant equipment,
ore reserves of a gross value of nearly £2,000,000, and
other odds and ends that could be turned into money
if required.
* * * *
Phil Bright, son of the historical Johu,
told shareholders from the chair at the Boulder Per-
severance meeting that a number of encouraging
developments had occurred in the mine during the
past year. Those recorded in the upper levels were
individually not of large extent, but collectively they
enabled the ore reserves to be maintained. It was
only in the lower parts of the property which were
not yet thoroughly explored that shareholders could
hop.e for extensive discoveries. Bright admitted that
for some years past there had been little success in
that direction, but a. recent drive extension of 50ft.
in 465. ore at 2000 ft. gave a little hope for the
future.
* * * *
Golden Ridge (W.A.) extracted 16.3J2
tons of ore from its dying mine during the six
months ended March, and made a profit <after wiping
off £5764 for depreciation and option expenses) of
£2396. The previous half-year’s unappropriated
balance added to this made a total credit of £6420.
Against this has been written off the balance of
development account ( £11,646), leaving a book
debit balance of £5226. Cash assets on March 31
were fixed deposits, £10,000; bullion reserve,
£1000; plant renewal reserve, £1670; cash in
bank, £6687; cash in hand, £l6; total, £19,373.
Directors report that while a fair amount of payable
ore was obtained from various reefs in the property
during the half-year, nothing new or of a permanent
nature was discovered. They have agreed to the
recommendation of the manager to put down a couple
of bore holes at the north end of the 500 ft. level to
intersect No. 2 cross reef at a depth of 600 ft. and at
points 300 ft. and 600 ft. north of where it was pre-
viously proved by borings to be valueless. The pre-
sent borings should determine whether values have
pitched to the north or snuffed out altogether. Efforts
are still being made to secure a new mine, but so
far without avail.
* * * *
A Methodist parson at Cue (W.A.) stam-
peded his flock a few Sundays ago by the announce-
ment that he had seen a good nugget of gold sticking
out of an equally good-looking piece of stone on his
way to worship. All that day nearly all his congre-
gation, and almost everyone they told, searched in
vain for the nugget. On the following Sabbath,
however, a resident stumbled across the boulder and
found about £4 worth of gold bulging out of it.
A rush immediately started, but nothing further of
value has since been found.
Burbanks Main Lode (W.A.) is trying to
get rid of 200,000 new Is. 6d. shares, and is asking
local (Goolgardie) residents to show their confidence
in the mine and district by taking a tenth of them.
The additional £15,000 capital which these shares
will, if taken up, provide, is wanted to deepen the
shaft and test the reef lower down.
* * * *
Bullrush (W.A.) laid out £1762 more than
it received during the half-year ended March, and
debited itself with an additional £1126 for depre-
ciation. Funds being low and the bank obdurate, it
is now trying to get money to carry on with by the
issue of £lO,OOO worth of debentures. It already
owes £16,659, including bank overdraft of £14,564 ;
but against this there are assets in the shape of
31,705 Kyarra shares, machinery and plant of a
book value of £18,314, and about £2OOO in stores,
broken ore, bullion, cash and sundries. Insiders say
that everything will right itself in time, but time is
a long-distance runner.
* * * *
Two directors of the Siberia Consols
(W.A.) have visited the mine and informed local in-
terviewers that they intend to confer with the other
members of the Board “as to the advisability of
putting through a crushing in order to convince
shareholders that the property is not worked out, and
only wants energetic handling to prove a payable pro-
position.” It will require something more than this
to get the public in again, The Bulletin is thinking.
* * * *
Ominous official admissions regarding the
newspaper-boomed Mararoa option at Holden’s Find
(W.A.) : No. 2 bore hole is down 218 ft. From 197 ft.
to 312 ft. in quartz. Average width, 12ft.; average
value, 12s. Results from No. 3 bore hole far from
satisfactory. General manager thinks that the reef
has either lessened in value in depth or a poor zone
has been met with. The manager believes it is a
poor zone. Other experts whose word The Bulletin
took at the outset hold that the field shows no signs
of permanency, and has no innards to speak of. So
far, they seem to be right.
* * * *
Thus Chairman Wanldyn, summing up the
position at the Sons of Gwalia meeting: “Stead.y
reduction in working costs is the most noticeable
feature of our operations.... The overhaul and addi-
tions to plant have cost nearly £52,000, spread over
two years. These are big figures, but thev will
amply justify themselves in the end. .. .About £3OOO
a month is being expended on development, and after
many years’ experience it is found that this outlay
enables ore development to keep pace with ore con-
sumed.... As regards the mine nothing could pos-
sibly be better than the appearance of the bottom
levels.... Ore reserves still amount to nearly four
years’ supply... .There will be no change in the
dividend policy. . . .The output will be kept up to
an average of 13,500 tons a month, and the recover-
able grade at 31s. or thereabouts. This is a figure
which we can adopt with safety and still leave a
margin for contingencies... .The principal contin-
gency is not a contingency at all but an obvious fact.
We did not earn, and for the past two years have not
earned, our dividend on the 31s. basis. Of course the
more costs can be reduced the closer we will get to
earning this dividend, but 31s. is a very conserva-
tive figure, and shareholders need not be alarmed.
In recent years towards the end of the year we have
deprived the bullion reserve of its accretion. Last
year we did so to the extent of £17,000.”
* * * *
Westralian Chamber of Mines has again
drawn attention to the big variation between the
annual Mint and Mines Department statistics of gold
production. In the case of East Coolgardie (Kal-
goorlie) the difference between the two totals for
last year amounted to 40,752 fine oz., and the
figures for other fields were similarly at variance.
The inference to be drawn from the Chamber's re-
marks is that a lot of stolen gold, of which the
Mines Department has no record, is included in the
Mint returns.
* * * *
Information respecting a new tribute
agreement was imparted to shareholders at the North
Kalgurli meeting in London. Chairman Barrow said
that a portion of the co.’s property had been 7 et to
a “substantial party” for two years. This part) - has
agreed to instal a Huntingdon mill and gas engine,


The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, GERMANY, etc.
New Direct Gable to Auckland from Board’s
Sydney Office opened December, 1912.
A Week End rate is now available between
Great Britain and Australasia. Rate 9d. per
word, with minimum of 15s. (20 words).
Week End Cable Letters are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain on the following Tuesday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “VIA PACIFIC.
_ Daily.
Ordinary.
3'/-
31-
-M
2/4
Deferred.
1/6
1/6
1/2
Great Britain .
Germany
New Zealand ..
Canada
U.S.A
Argentine, Bazil. 1
Chili and Peru j
West Indies, Central
rates on application.
Cable Forms, Deferred and Week End
Regulations may be obtained at
2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 1/4
5/8} 2/10}
America and other
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
408 Collins Street, Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
• J. MILWARD. Manage, in the Pacific,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
d
WISE
MANAGERS
ALWAYS ORDER
x DUNLOP
MINING & ENGINEERING
GOODS
THEY KNOW WHAT “DUNLOP” QUALITY
MEANS-GOOD SERVICE AND SATISFACTION.
Sample* aad Tender* Submitted. Li»t» on Application
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne; Sydney. Adelaide, Perth. Brisbane. Wellington
and Christchurch. '
Like the “little drops of water little leaks iin
power transmission wear away the profit margin.
You can put an end to these leaks and be sure that
every ounce of your power is transmitted you
machines if you use “Pioneer leather belti g, •
Strong claim? Yes, but “Pioneer will stand up
to it. The foundation of every ‘Pioneer belt is the
centre cuts of tough, flawless Australian ox hides,
which we tan in our own tannery and build up witn
best materials and workmanship along lines which
our 56 years’ concentrated bdt-buikhng expericnce
has taught us is best. “Pioneer gives the greatest
efficiency under all conditions, and we guarantee eveiy
foot of it. Write to-day to our nearest office foi
samples and prices of this thorough belting. Pioneer
leather belting is made only by J. C. LUDOWICI &
SON LTD., Pioneer Works, 117 York Street, Sydney
(opp. Q.V. Markets), and sold in Victoria by Leo.
Russell, P’t’y, Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne; in
South Australia by J. McKell, Timpson Street, Port
Adelaide; in Queensland by Queensland Machinery
Co. Ltd., Brisbane; in W. Australia by Horace
Summers, Howard Street, Perth; in Broken Hill by
Geo. C. Dempster, Argent Street.*
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re
inforced concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S,
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by .the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples# the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete, the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.* t 4
* * * *
Extract from The Insurance Record, London,
September 22, 1911: “To have written insurances for
£5,550,000 (Ordinary, Industrial and Accident) in
a year which was marked by the keenest competi-
tion from beginning to end is an achievement which
proves that the Colonial Mutual is a force to be
reckoned with in every sphere to which its influence
extends.’’*
THE BURROWS PATENT TAP, for use with
PIONEER WOOD PIPE, is manufactured to any
diameter or pressure. It can be inserted under
pressure by unskilled labor. Full particulars in cata-
logue from the AUSTRALIAN WOOD PIPE CO.,
LTD., 57 York Street, Sydney (Head Office).*
Amongst orders received since the New Year by
our Brisbane Branch are the following Suction and
Towns Gas Engines: Geo. Stupart, Esq. ; Maryborough,
49 b.h.p., for Electric Lighting; Mackay Harbor
Board, 43 b.h.p., for Stone Crushing ; Dr. Voss, Rock-
hampton, two—each 17 b.h.p., for Electric Lighting;
R. H. Treweeke, Goondiwindi, 17 b.h.p., for Sheep-
shearing; Mrs. Devaney, Gladstone, 13 b.h.p., for
Electric Lighting ; whilst at the present time they are
erecting a 73 b.h.p. Suction Gas Engine and Plant
for Messrs. Harris and Co., Rockhampton, for Electric
Lighting purposes. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., Mel-
bourne, Sydney and Brisbane.*
The highest returns for all kinds of residues are
obtained from Harrington’s Ltd., of 386 George-
street, Sydney, who buy large quantities of jewellers’
sweeps, polishings, handwash and lemel, process
workers’ residues, plating baths and any other
materials containing gold, silver or platinum. Assays
are executed for jewellers within two or three hours,
and prospectors and others are assured of immediate
attention. All kinds of analytical and metallurgical
work can be executed promptly, and advice given on
all branches of industrial chemistry and metallurgy.
The whole of the work is directed by a qualified
analyst and metallurgist from Johnson & Sons, Lon-
don, Assayers and Refiners to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, the Council of India, etc., etc. Direct
shipments of large parcels of sweeps, residues, ores,
etc., can be sent direct to Johnson & Sons by arrange-
ment.*
.* * *■ *
J. Malcolm Newman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
CLAUDE BRISTOW, Assayer and Analytical
Chemist. Sampling supervised. 93 Pitt Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.*
In addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast Iron Pipes, Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Pro-
prietary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.*
* * * *
Mine managers when requiring new Steam Boilers
are invited to communicate with Babcock & Wilcox,
Ltd., who have supplied their Patent Safety Water-
tube Boilers to the majority of leading mines in
Australia.”*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * +
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances’ sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
’Phone
CITY— B 332.
Poldi Steel
FOR GREATEST ECONOMY IN MACHINING.
171 Clarence Street, Sydney. t 3
to nav rent for the use of the plant and a royalty
per oJ. on gold won “more advantageous to the co than
heretofore ’’ The statement of accounts for the 13
months ended last December showed the revenue for
that period to have been £26,416. Working exes.,
including tributors’ cut, amounted to £25,16/ ,
and after earmarking £69 for income tax, a carry-
over balance of £1159 remains.
* * *
Chaffers’ latest circular to shareholders
states that since the la . st ,. reconstru s 3t^ l i n ?. n
1913, four new lodes, including one at 1600 ft. which
is estimated to be worth £5 7s. 6d. over sft. for
170 ft., have been opened up. The upward extension
of this shoot is declared to have been proved at
No 15 level, where sft. of it is said to be worth
455. 3d. for a length of 70ft., and the last 14ft. to
average 425. 6d. over a stripped width of lift. In
addition to enthusing over this prize packet, the
circular proudly draws attention to recent develop-
ments on the No. 1 lode at 1700 ft., where sft. of
38s. ore is reported to have been driven on for 64ft. In
short, 4 ‘everything points to a successful future ;
but in the case of Chaffers it is safest, on past ex-
perience, to let the future do its own talking.
Melbourne has fastened on to the Bodan-
gora at Wellington (N.S.W.). The Mitchell’s Creek
Gold Recovery Co. is the Vendor; it gets 10,000
paid-ups and £lOOO in cash before May 4, 1915,
after which £5OOO is to be ladled out on the basis
of half-profits—that is, if profits come. The list
of others who are to bite a wee bit out of the float
is set out fully in the prospectus for all to know:
P. R. Sutherland, £l6l. 2900 shares; E. C. Dyason,
£B2, 1633 shares; G. H. Day, £154, 2767 shares;
J. Bromlev, £B4, 1366 shares; Mitchell’s Creek Co.,
£l6, 1334 shares. The co. is to be in 50,000 shares,
and as vendor and promoters take 20,000, the smiling
public is expected to sop up the other 30,000. The
promoters, or one or two of them, will gracefully, if
asked, slide on to the Board, and Messrs. E. Dyason
and Co., if desired, will run the show as general
managers, presumably at a reasonable fee. The
prospectus doesn’t show the tonnage in sight, though
it is affirmed that an aggregate length of 1164 ft. of
reef, 15in. wide, remains to be beaten out at the
100, 400 and 600 feet levels. This does not mean a
fat total of proved stone. Hence it is easy to under-
stand why money is wanted to develop the mine at
the bottom levels. Dyason and Co. expect the mine
to give 12,000 tons annually, and the firm estimates
this will show an annual profit of £B4OO, with costs
at 375. per ton. It is tough work to estimate not
only the extent of a hidden formation, but also the
profits; still the hard hitter generally scores.
» * » »
Kyloe Copper (N.S.W.), which shifted its
pegs a while ago, has acquired a 40-acre block
adjoining its other new leases, and its prospect-
ing operations in the Drake district are at least
hopeful. In the shaft on which work is concentrated
10 p.c. copper over a width of 3ft. was showing
lately.
Broken Hill miners have the good luck
to be represented by Mines Minister Cann, who has
agreed to appoint B. R. Wise, K.C., as a Commissioner
to inquire into their claim that hours of labor should
be shortened in hot workings. Four hours they reckon
a long enough shift in some places. Probably nothing
will come directly out of the Commission ; but it is
expected to provide ammunition for use when wages,
etc., are next revised.
* * * IT
The Newcastle-Wallsend management has
always been a dumb oyster; but in the confident
though Unofficial assurance that there is to be an
issue of shares, the market has run the price up a
good 50 p.c.
* * * *
New Burragorang, Yerranderie (N.S.W.),
reports that 24 tons were dispatched for a fortnight,
and the report encourages the hope that quantities and
values are going to get a move on at last. But
assays vary so much from a narrow vein of this kind
that it is ridiculous to get excited when you read
that the average from a winze connecting with No. 6
west rise for a distance of 20ft. gave 20gr. gold, 4350 z.
silver and 73 p.c. lead. The best that can be hoped
is that now and then an extra-rich patch will last
long enough to give the shareholders a trifle over and
above the heavy outlay on development.
* * * *
At Bangadang, near Adelong (N.S.W.),
a small revival has taken place. The claim recently
known as O’Dwyer’s has been named the Banga-
dang, and is in the hands of a Victorian syndicate.
At the 90ft. level the reef appears to have made a
bulge of good stone; a sample has been treated for
4oz. 15dwt. per ton. The ore is highly mineralised
and requires roasting, and its refractory nature
accounts for the slow development of the claim. A
co. has been registered in Melbourne to work, it.
* * * *
Lloyd Copper, at Burraga (N.S.W.), has
the sick feeling. The copper market is hitting
struggling concerns like this pretty hard. So the co.
is reducing hands, and there isn’t a comfortable feel-
ing among those who are left.
At Hill End (N.S.W.) the Amalgamated
is giving tributors a chance. If the men obtain
some good crushings it may give the co. a hint
about future work. After spending over £28,000,
the mine remains insufficiently developed, although
some rich stone has been exposed in patches.
The main to connect Broken Hill with the
new Government reservoir is more than half laid,
and there is a very fine body of water waiting to
come through the pipes. When the work is com-
pleted the profits of the B. H. Water Co. will begin
to show signs of anaemia.
During 1913 the Gibraltar Consolidated.
Adelong (N.S.W.), treated 6243 tons of stone and
6080 tons of secondary products for £25,421. The
total income for the year was £26,842, and ex-
penses asked for £22,291. The event of the year
was the opening up of the reef at the 900 ft. level
for a length of 250 ft. A debit balance from 1912
was wiped off, and the mine, which struggles along
very gamely, started the present year with a small
credit balance. The reserves are only 6300 tons, so
development will have to be pushed on. The reef
is frequently faulted by crosscourses and bars, which
makes it expensive to work.
* * * *
Mount Elliott’s recent acquisition of a
number of Cloncurry semi-derelicts is not as good as
it looks on paper. The Great Australia isn’t a mine,
the Ralston leases are not even first-class prospects,
and the Argylla was the most disappointing of all
the freeholds. Queensland Copper Freeholds owns it
and the Crusader and Dobbin; the last-named has
a fine shoot of glance ore and looks like being a mine.
The new co. (of £300,000) is to have £50,000
working capital, which isn’t as much as the City
Central Syndicate will get out of the deal right
away. Later on Oxide will be included, there
is talk of a central smelting works at CJpncurry—
which is necessary enough seeing that the Dobbin is
70 miles from Cloncurry and 125 from Elliott.
There’s a lot of French money in the Scheme, and
probably the end of it will be serious damage to
I’entente cordiale.
Chairman Casey, of Mount Morgan,
speaks to the point with regard to the heavy expen-
diture on new plant. Says he: “Improved facilities
for working are being installed all over the mine
in the hope of getting an increased output, and also
with a view of increasing the life of the mine.
If we had not gone on with these, alterations and
improvements, the mine would have rapidly run out
altogether. The future of Australian copper mining
depends upon concentration.” This is letting pussy
out of the bag—and puss evidently got loose in
London some time before chairman Casey expressed
his views on this side.
Hampden-Cloncurry’s last dividend, due in
March, was not passed, but merely deferred. So at
least said the directors. Now the announcement is
made that no divs. can be expected until the end of
the current year. The half-yearly accounts just issued
are eloquent enough as to the reason why. A sham
surplus of £4078 is exhibited in the report, which
would be poor enough even if it were the real thing.
A month later £20,000 debentures were due for re-
demption, and were paid; yet this little liability
somehow escaped attention, as did also the remaining
£40,000 debentures falling due within two years.
Last half-year the average monthly profit was £12,000
or thereabouts, omitting the allowance to the bogus
depreciation fund. The price of copper was then ap-
preciably higher than it is now. The profits were
almost swamped by the monthly £BOOO to £9OOO
expenditure charged to capital. The unproductive
mines still need much more development, and the Mac-
gregor tramway is not expected to be complete until
next September. So there must still be a heavy drain
going on. Hard cash is involved in the payment of a
dividend, and it is just this that Hampden is so short
of.
* * * *
Mammoth Copper (N.Q.) expects to start
another smelting campaign early in July.
*** , *
Lode Hill (N.Q.) expects to clean up dur-
ing the second week in June. About 30,000 cubic
yards will be put through, or perhaps more; for
during the heavy wet season there should be plenty
of water. But races—both head and tail—may give
some trouble, for Lode Hill is high up in the ranges.
Anyone who has been a tin-scratcher will, as a con-
stant thing, doubt an estimate of 4d. per cubic yard
for breaking, shovelling, sluicing and keeping the
tail race clear. Everything was carefully prepared
for the first sluicing. Black tin of good quality (free
from ironsand and other mineral impurities) recently
sold at over Is. per lb. ; but the price has steadily
fallen, and in calculating future profits 9d. per lb.
( £B4 per ton) is fairly optimistic. Now an average
yield of lOd. at a cost of 4d. means 6d. per yard gross
profit, and 6d. on 30,000 cubic yards gives £750. At
that rate, 300,000 cubic yards are required to average
slightly over lib. per yard to give a gross profit of
£7500, which on 100,000 shares is equal to Is. 6d.
per share. Lode Hill may handle more than 300,000
cubic yards a year and rake in a profit of over £7500
if the tin market jumps again, but at the moment
the conditions are unfavorable.
* * * *
Geologist Colin Fraser, from Loandon,
is at present at Mount Morgan, making ex-
tensive geological surveys and giving his ideas as
to future development. He has also been engaged to
inspect Laloki and other interests in Papua.
At Charters Towers Clark’s Brilliant and
Day Dawn have crushed 55 tons for an average of
£io 12s. lOd. Penny calls are foreshadowed, as
an extensive development programme to cost £4400
has been drawn up. There are 180,000 shares, so if
6d. can be collected it will mean £4500. But
Charters Towers is not responding at all well to
calls just now, Kelly’s Queen Block has had most
of the old contributing shares thrown on its hands,
and is therefore trying to reconstruct. And Brilliant
St. George has applied for suspension of labor con-
ditions simply because call money failed to come in.
* * * *
Blair Athol (Q.) had to cut into its
reserves to pay its two - sixpennies last half-year:
they required £5OOO, and profits, after writing
£377 off for depreciation, were only £4105. It
would have been a fairer thing if the trifle spent
on prospecting the Newry Islands option had also
been written off: it doesn’t look well to have this
amount, representing merely an unproductive drill-
hole, figuring as an asset. These Newry Islands,
40 miles north of Mackay, are reported to give
excellent indications of coal; but the co. may have
to go down 400 ft. to get it. Not the least of its
virtues, if it is there, is that it is right alongside a
cosy deep-water anchorage.
“Augurs well for divs.” is the tip about
Clarence United, Bendigo. The co. is out of debt,
which means that the first patch or two won t go
into reserve, but will sweeten up prospective call-
payers. A lot of profitable work has been done in
the run of spurry country by the adjoining South
New Moon. This is east of the main reef, and
Clarence has a shaft down 117 ft. from the boundary
with which to get going on the continuation of the
same formations. The best stone is east of the main
reef, where at 935 ft. and 980 ft. a wide zone gives
possibilities of a big output. The co.’s second string
is the improved stone on the western leg of the
saddle at 2280ft.’
* * * *
Great Boulder's Magdala-Moonlight option
at Stawell (Vic.) is not shaping as well as expected.
Assayed borings show values to be poor and erratic,
and The Bulletin hears from the West that there
isn’t much chance of a deal being effected.
* * * *
Mount Bischoff (Tas.) has shortened
hands and cut down expenses. The output has been
reduced to 75 tons per month, and the dividend to
ss. per share. The Bulletin has. often said a warn-
ing word about this pet tin proposition, which is
very low grade, and cannot easily adjust itself to poor
metal prices. At £56 per ton an average extraction
of 111 b. of black tin is worth ss. 6d., a figure that
leaves practically no profit. At £B4 per ton (9d.
per lb.) the value of Bischoff’s extraction moves up
to Bs. 3d., and leaves a margin of about 3s. 4d. over
working costs. No doubt the average can be slightly
improved by rejecting a larger quantity of very low-
grade material, but costs would then increase. Pick-
ing the eyes out of a big proposition is a system that
always leaves trouble behind it. It is still more
difficult to cut do-wn costs below the present low rate
of nearly ss. per ton. The prospect ahead of Mount
Bischoff with a low metal market is gloomy.
Good old Wallaroo and Moonta, after 54
years’ profitable work, hands out Is. 6d. per share
for the second- time this year. During 16 weeks to
April 18 the co. produced 2195 tons of copper and
1708 tons of sulphuric acid, so the total output
should approximate 7000 tons of copper and 6000
tons of acid for 12 months. To pay four dividends
of is. 6d. each, Wallaroo and Moonta must show
net earnings from copper and acid of at least
£48,000. Last year (1913) the cost of producing copper
averaged £56 15s. 10d., and if £65 per ton is taken
as the average European quotation, there remains a
very narrow margin indeed so far as copper is con-
cerned. But “Wallaroo” copper commands a fine
market in India, so with the acid thrown in, and
some help from the new flotation plant, the strain
to pay £48,000 a year on an output of 7000 tons
may not be so great as it looks.
Copper producers are deeply interested in
the Minerals Separation process as applied to low-
grade ore and tailings. The new flotation mill at
Wallaroo (S.A.), according to the last report, had
put through 52,789 tons of tailings and 161,874 tons
of low-grade ore, and the results were excellent from
a concentrator’s point of view. The average assay
of the stuff treated was 3.346 p.c., while 104,653
tons of tailings produced by the new plant are esti-
mated to average only 4 p.c. The concentrates assayed
8.5 p.c. It has now been demonstrated by the
Wallaroo and Moonta and Great Fitzroy cos. that
recoveries can be made of from 80 p.c. to 90 p.c. of
the copper contained in low-grade ore. But this
doesn’t necessarily mean profits. The high mining
and (to a less extent) smelting costs that have
hitherto obtained in Queensland are a stumbling block
to the successful handling of low-grade stuff up north.
It is partly the knowledge of what happened to
Great Fitzroy that has caused the slump in Mount
Morgan shares.
Mintaro Slate and Flagstone Co. (S.A.)
handed out its first dividend recently—-61 p.c., equal
to Is. 3d. on shares paid up to 20s. There are
30,000 shares issued, so the distribution costs
£1875. After paying this there was a balance of
£2693, which is thoughtfully reserved. Some 50
years ago flagstone was discovered in the creek-bed,
but it is only during the last few years that the
deposit has been worked systematically. There are
now two steam cranes, an oil engine and various
planing and moulding appliances. A stock of 60,000
sq. feet of slate 2in. thick and 64,000 sq. feet I4in.
thick has been accumulated, and a very fair market
is being opened up for the product.
* * * *
From a couple of the directors of Cardwell
Oil Wells, Limited: The Bulletin compares our
company, which is only a prospecting show, with
that of the South Australian Oil Wells, and says
that we have not a chance, for the simple reason that
we only purpose raising £750 to start with. But
we have another £750 in reserve, and an option
has been taken over these reserved shares already.
In any case, the remarks regarding the cost of bor-
ing for oil do not apply, for the simple reason that,
as stated in the prospectus, “this company is only
an acquisition and prospecting company, and does
not intend to do any deep boring on its own
account.” We have on our property a vast quantity
of a bituminous product known as coorongite, and
the object of the flotation is to prove the extent of
.this deposit, and whether it can be found at a depth ;
also, if the shallow bores, which we intend putting
down, will discover any of the reported seepages
which occurred some years ago. We do not state
we are going to develop 10 square miles on the
Coorong. We do say, though, we are going to pro-
spect this area, and we have already practically com-
pleted negotiations for an amount of £20,000 for
deep boring should our prospecting prove satisfac-
tory. We are also acquiring several other areas, not
only in South Aus., but in New Caledonia and Ger-
man New Guinea.
* * * *
Increased engine power and an improved
supply of water may put a little more life into
Radium Hill (S.A.). The water was struck at a
depth of 166 ft., and in such a dry locality it per-
haps indicates an extensive ore channel. Radium Hill
can do with an assurance that it has such a channel;
for after all the talk about ore reserves, it remains
a shallow mine worked on a very small scale. B. Du
Faur, once of Mount Morgan, is to be put in charge
at the mine. One of his qualifications is that he
knows something about magnetic concentrating.
* * * *
Australian Oil Properties Ltd. (capital
£lO,OOO in 9000 ordinary shares of £1 and 1000
preference) was registered in London lately to buy a
prospecting license for oil over five square miles in
Eyre’s Peninsula (Si Aus.). The license is good for
12 months, and cost £5. There is also an option to
take out six more prospecting licenses. To get scrip
of the face value of £6OOO for a £5 license to look
for oil seems a profitable piece of business, if the
scrip can be marketed. The promoter also asked
£2OO in cash. The balance of the capital ( £800)
will not go much farther than law costs and directors’
and registration fees. This looks like a tame cat gone
wild, and is not likely to do Australian oil prospects
much good.
.* * * *
Mount Magnet now offers better induce-
ments to the poor man than most goldfields in the
West. In the early days miles and miles of alluvial
deposits were worked with varying success, and when
these became exhausted diggers started to look for
reefs. Several rich finds were made, and in the past
18 months nearly 20,0000 z. have been won princi-
pally from the claims of working miners. Very few
of the holdings have furnished large tonnages of ore,
but a number of battlers and dwt. chasers have done
well.
* * * *
“Exile”: Victorian Manganese and Iron
Co. claims that it possesses large and valuable de-
posits in Eastern Gippsland (Vic.). Instead of
spending its few pounds in preparing a proper scheme
for raising the capital locally, the co. has spent
several thousand pounds in London trying to induce
lawyers, accountants and stockbrokers to provide
the money. It is the old, old story of finding a big
mineral deposit and immediately deciding to send
the mine-manager to hunt will o’ the wisps in Cole-
man-street and Throgmorton Avenue. The mine-
manager may be a good manager of a mine
and yet a very inferior financial agent.
London is a very curious place for a strange mine-
manager to conquer. He knows nothing of its
methods, or its business men, and arrives in London
fully armed to raise capital with one Government
plan, having the leases marked blue and the pro-
posed railway marked red, and a letter of intro-
duction from the local M.L.A. to the Agent-General.
Fnancial London is exactly one square mile in area,
and the arrival of the strange mining man from the
Antipodes with a long plan wrapped in brown paper
under his arm, a very long official envelope in one
. hand and an extremely new bell topper of yester-
day’s vintage in the other, is instantly telephoned
from one promoter's office to another. Then the
whilom shift-boss, lately a mine-manager and now a
competent money-broker, sets out to get appoint-
ments which are grudgingly made and rarely kept.
His scheme, which has never been properly presented
with full details and information, 1S * u ™ e d d ° th
by firm after firm, and the weeks spent down the
gully” in London Wall turn into months and years,
while the company’s funds turn into new frock suits,
new tall hats, new brown boots and fat hotel nuis
The same money spent in Sydney or Melbourne com
piling plans and getting assays, analyses and r
ports, would probably have floated the Victorian
Manganese and Iron Co. long ago, whereas
is still waiting for news from London.


lz.l:
CoidVlirtUssrt^
HEERINGI
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
PE LLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
TEN YEARS OLD.
St?
S.
FARMER'S
SYDNEY
SPECIAL
THEATRE DIhHEP
EVEPY FRIDAY EVEIURG
TABLE D’HOTE 4/s
EHTRAHCE-CttITDALPITT STDOORS
ELEVATOR /b FIFTH FLOOD
BUCHANAN’S
Blacß (El White.
A GRAND SPIRIT
“ Black & White ” is indeed a “ grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, June 1, 1914.
My Deae Aeini, —
The female politician may yet taste out of
some of the honeypots of office; at present
she humbly toils to collect sweets for other
fellows. The Women’s Political Labor
League almost went down on its bended
frock to implore Premier Holman to swing-
open the portal of the Upper House to the
Petticoat brigade. There’s nothing in the
Constitution (dear old Constitution) to slam
the Council Chamber door in her face, she is
told ; and as for the Assembly, Mr. Holman
says he is going to let Us in there, too.
Helen Ring Robinson, of Colorado, the
first _ woman senator in the U.S., has been
detailing the joys and sorrows of being a
female legislator. Amongst the minor pin-
stabs is the abbreviated address, “Senator
H. R. Robinson,” which leads to complica-
tions. For instance, when she stayed at
a New York hotel, the page boys scanned
bar and barber’s shop when a wire came
along for Senator H. R. Robinson. Of her
billet she says, “I represented a special
industry in the Senate, as surely as did the
railroad men or the Grocers’ Trust member.
I represented the interests of the wife and
mother and the industry of the housewife.”
Fiddler Mischa Elman is the star turn this
week. Before this reaches you Mrs. W. A.
Holman will have surrounded the young man
with a concourse of new acquaintances at
Parliament House.
An Australian in Paris sends a line about
the recent visit of George V. and his blue-
eyed Mary to that giddy city. “Yester-
day,” says he, “I saw from a friend’s bal-
cony in the Champs Elysee the arrival of
the Royalties—or, rather, their passing this
way. The weather for the last week has been
brilliant, and the whole fuss was really well-
managed. Rather to the surprise of many
Britishers here, who believed that, with the
death of Edward, English stocks had slumped
in Paris, the Personages had an enthusiastic
welcome from the crowds in the streets. The
’Murkan colony had bet that the Queen
would wear ostrich feathers in her hat—a
British institution greatly favored by Mary,
who doesn’t take kindly to the long, spiky
millinery adored by the present-day French-
woman. So the excitement of Auntie Sam
was centred on the Queen’s head-gear. It
was feathers ! For your benefit I add that
the ostrich fluff was in some shade of ame-
thyst, and it went with another British tra-
dition —a dress in nondescript fawn-color.”
A well-known figure dropped out of the
ranks at the end of last week. Mrs. Stiles,
who has for 27 years been principal at Nor-
manhurst (Ashfield), one of Sydney’s best-
known colleges for girls, retired after the
somewhat strenuous task of filling the heads
of young ladies with logarithms and quad-
ratic equations. Miss Tyldesley, of Newn-
ham College, will in future make the neces-
sary impressions.
A. B. Piddington, K.C., the president of
the Interstate Commission, returning offi-
cially to his native heath for the first time
since his appointment, dined his two associ-
ates at the Australia the other night. The
guest list contained a formidable array of
lawyers to meet Commissioners Lockyer and
Swinburne.
Lord Dick Nevill leaves Australia in the
Niagara on June 29. Before going from the
land of his long experience in rounding up
the Society sheep, so that they trampled not
on the goats, he hopes to spend a week or
two in this hamlet.
Scaccia, the small, alert Italian artist who
is picking up English with both hands in
Sydney, is the official horse painter of the
Rome Jockey Club. We mostly think of
the. Italian capital as a place of churches,
artists, beggars and Cook’s Tourists. But
it has a sporting side and a jockey club of
considerable affluence. Artist Scaccia, who
is reputed to know the anatomy of a quadru-
ped as intimately as a vet., is here for a few
months to study that expensive pet, the Aus-
tralian racehorse. Later on, his sketches of
our satin-skinned beauties will adorn the
walls of the Roman Jockey Club. In pass-
ing, he is doing a private commission or two
to give the pot an extra boil. His picture
of Popinjay, the fleet-footed racer owned by
Adrian Knox, K.C., is worth every copper of
the £5O commission.
The Eric Riddifords. of a Maoriland fam-
ily whose flocks are white on many hills, are
over here just now. The man of the party
is a polo player, with a mighty whack in his
striking arm.
A serious association, which protests
against the universal application of the axe
to the Australian tree, foregathers this (Mon-
day) evening in the Royal Society’s Rooms.
Chief Justice Cullen presides. “Provisional
secretaries” (a cautious label) are R. D.
Watt and Alex. Hamilton. Lantern slides
illustrate the remarks of R. H. Cambage re
the uses of forest trees. If this N.S.W.
branch of the Australian Forest League
could illustrate the übiquitous alderman sit-
ting on the remains of a Moreton Bay fig, it
would point a moral, while bringing its enter-
tainment right up to date.
Miss Doris Fisher, daughter of the J. D.
Fishers, of Mona-road, Darling Point, said
“I will” to George Bennett, on May 30. He’s
a son of the late Frank Bennett, of Sydney
Evening News, and takes his bride off to
England next week.
The artistic rally round the treasures
which Julian Ashton has been collecting
under his domestic shingle for the last 25
years came to a head last Saturday after-
noon. The great result liable to follow a
show of this kind lies in the appeal it makes
to human vanity. The instincts of a col-
lector are more or less latent in most people.
Spurred on by the little-by-little principle,
scores of Sydney folks who have hitherto
only collected shares, motors or diamond
studs, may now start catching their Aus-
tralian artists young. Advice in that direc-
tion was the crux of Premier Holman’s re-
marks to the crowd at the opening of the
show in the Queen Victoria studio.
Norman Lindsay, in the flesh, was able to
gaze at Norman Lindsay’s virile attack on
black-and-white at 16. Lionel, of that ilk,
saw his etchings under the brooding care of
Ashton. Lambert, in England, can only hear
the distant echo of the feet that tramped
round his picture, “The Gift.” Phil May
and Douglas Fry, gone across the Border-
land, were well represented. In a crush
that flattened itself up against the collection
were the aesthetic John Lane Mullins, be-
loved of the scribbling and brush fraternity
hereabouts; Bernhard Wise, K.C., who en-
thused over Ure Smith’s ancient windmill;
Norman Carter; Mrs. Pat Nolan, wrapped
up in a long, snug coat, with a soft black hat
squashed on her musical brow ; artist Griiner,
who was stalked by feminine admirers ; Mrs.
Arthur Adams, in a tailored coat and skirt
and small crimson toque. Dr. and Mrs.
Maxwell Allen lingered long over the Soci-
ety of Artists’ show at the same address;
and the Fourth Estate swarmed round the
exhibits.
The Alliance Frangaise will hold its next
evening attack on the French language in
St. James’s Hall on June 11. Consul-
General Chayet is president of this society,
which gives you the right tip as to Chumps
Eliza and other stumbling-blocks of the Eng-
lish tongue. Light refreshments will be
used as a ballast for the cargo of Culture
you are expected to stow away under your
hair-net.
Harry Lauder’s first appearance in the
Theatre Royal was on the coldest night of
the present season. A joyful audience, part
Scotch, part Australian and part Hebrew,
settled down in stalls and d.c. to perform the
accompaniment which Lauder expects—the
gurgling, chuckling noise made when a house
is supposed to be splitting its sides with
laughter. Mrs. Lauder and a party were in
one stage box, and Mrs. Hugh Ward and
her party were camped on the other side.
Mrs. Tony Hordern was in the audience.
The Jack Sees were entrenched in the d.c.
waiting for the Lauder laugh which didn’t
come on till even those who had a streak of
tartan in their family lockers were yawning
behind their gloves. Lauder must have felt
a touch of frost in the air, for his expensive
laugh didn’t warm up till he got waist-deep
in “Wee Deoch and Doris.” “Doris” in this
instance means door, and the convivial spirits
in the song have to navigate the exit after
the last wee deoch has gone to its long
home down the Scottish throat.
Mrs. Mayoress Richards, in mourning for
her father, was steeped in black velvet and
raven millinery at her tea-party the other
afternoon. The guest of honor, Lady Patey,
whose hand the company had been specially
invited to shake, bore up under the occa-
sional rush of bores, hardy climbers, and
other nuisances, who always plant their No.
8 boots firmly in front of anything with a
handle, to its name. A long, white stole of
tail-less ermine—almost as costly as half a
yard of Harry Lauder —was thrown over the
Admiralty lady’s shoulders. Like many
women in the crush Lady Patey was garbed
in black. I noticed this through a wall of
female millinery, which becomes fiercely in-
dignant if it is politely asked to make way
for a tea tray.
Mrs. O’Gorman Hughes, in some soft, dark
garment suitable to the wintry blast, had
her nice appearance top-dressed by a small,
snug velvet hat. The McMillan dame glided
through the throng without misadventure,
being slim enough to squeeze past serried
phalanxes of our sex. Mrs. Sep Levy was
surrounded by a huge brown fur coat, warm
enough for a Polar bear. (N.B.- —I under-
stand that the ancient name of Levy is now
smartened up as “Lewi,” by the way.) Mrs.
Alec Hay, in dusky brown garments, wore
the latest style of Hat. Some of it was on
her head, but most of it, a gigantic brown
velvet annex, stuck out behind, and tickled
the wall decorations. Mrs. Anderson
Stuart’s trim figure was surmounted by one of
the becoming feathery hats that still survive
the windmill millinery which is the cult of
to-day. Mrs. Tom Hughes came along with
a fine presence—it is the same presence, and
she always takes it out with her. Amongst
the dames in raven hue was the graceful Mrs.
Harry Finn, who, in her headgear, sticks to
ostrich fluff, instead of adopting the martial
habit of claws and spikes.
Mrs. Isley, of Manly, who has been a
bright and shining light in the Women’s
Chatriotic Club, was handed a few tokens of
goodwill by members of that large Bligh-
street beehive the other afternoon. The
Manly dame is going off for a trip with a
rather sick husband, and hopes to bring him
back well enough to face a dozen women’s
clubs without a tremor.
The Glaciarium opened its doors to con-
firmed skaters and their friends on a chilly
afternoon last week.
Magnetic Ada Reeve, now warbling at the
Tivoli, is one of the few importations who
are as good as their press agents say they are.
Pier light and tuneful voTfce is a small asset
compared with her live-wire personality.
When Ada sings about a kiddie in his first
pair of knickerbockers, you can see that
infant, swollen with the pride of new trou-
sers, then crumpled up with woe after his
riotous acquaintances have yapped at his
manly appearance. Ada is more than 17,
but she doesn’t look it. To maintain
this appearance of youth is the whole duty
of woman —or two-thirds of it—and in the
Reeve person the success is accentuated by
the clothes every Nice Girl would like to
steal if the Tivoli guardians would turn
their heads the other way. For instance, she
trips about the stage in a Perfect white gown,
with a cunning touch of heavenly blue silk
concealed about its filmy snowdrop drapery.
This is the kind of frock the ordinary male
describes as “so simple,” till he has to pay
for a similar luxury for his wife. Then
if you live next door you can hear some-
thing that sounds like falling crockery.
The Harbor Lights Guild, which stretches
out a friendly hand to mariners, held its
annual review of its own Good Works the
other afternoon. The Admiralty lady was
in charge of the meeting. Parson Allan
. Pain, whose family, like that of the Deck
clan, is mostly medical missionary, is the
official sky-pilot of this Guild. He gave the
assembly a hearty jog in the place where con-
tributions are expected to come from.
Mr. Geoff. Elkington, a Maoriland run-
holder, with a bewildering likeness to the
King of Spain, is over here on a holiday.
He is young and still open to engage-
ment. A polo player of note, he is
liable to: be snapped up by any attractive
damsel who gloats on that hard-hitting game.
“Every trained nurse her own landlady”
is now the ideal of members of the Sydney
Nurses’ Club. Instead of handing out £6OO
a year in perpetuity for their present abode —
which is already a size too small —the Night-
ingales are dreaming of a permanent roof of
their own. As shareholders in the Club they
are on the trail of cash—any old cash they
can plank down as the nucleus of a building
fund. A ball on August 26, in the gorgeous
Salon de Luxe, is to gather the first big
instalment.
A man who ought to know tells me,
apropos the departure of the Wee Macgregors
from Brisbane, that they will pack up in
August. This will cut about three months
or so off the chieftain’s term of sub-regal
office. The premature packing is said (in
a profound whisper) to be due to the Den-
mans’ experience of hunting round for suit-
able private premises in Brisbane. These
are hard to get; for a G.-G. needs a house of
considerable circumference for his numerous
Helps-in-Waiting. The Munro Fergusons are
booking Bananaland dates for August. It
is quite likely the thoughtful Macgregor is
effacing himself for the purpose of putting
Brisbane’s vice-royal humpy at the new-
comers’ disposal for the spring frivols.
Following on the recent visit of Mr.
Beauchamp, the chairman, to Australia,
the Sydney branch of the Bank of New
Zealand has been told to pack up its ledgers
and move across George-street. It will
shift into its own premises on or about (this
is a fine police-court expression) June 19.
The big Bank of New Zealand Chambers
have for some years housed the M.L. Gov-
ernment Tourist Agency. The latter,
being now crowded out, is gathering
up its maps and guide-books to seek
shelter elsewhere for a year or so.
Later, in September, 1916, it expects to
find a permanent roof in the. Unioii Steam-
ship Co.’s palatial offices-to-be.
The late Baron Wimborne is reported by
the English press to have left all his pelf,
about £250,000, to his widow. The title m
so brand new that the late Ivor Guest was
the first of his family to trail a peer’s velvet
skirts behind him. He was popularly sup-
posed to have bpen something of a million-
aire, having acquired much cash in iron or
steel or something equally useful in trade. He
married one of the haughty Marlborough
clan. Lady Cornelia Henrietta Maria (that’s
nearly all) Spencer-Churchill. If the late
Wimborne did leave all his ready money to
his widow, he has five sons and four daugh-
ters (one daughter is Lady Chelmsford) to
bewail their loss. The present Baron is
bound to get a largesse to keep up his baron-
ial paddocks, but the others don’t seem to
be mentioned. Perhaps they got their whack
during father’s lifetime, to save the heavy
English death-duty. Lady Cornelia Henri-
etta Maria, by the way, is the managing
dame who took a brisk hand in son Ivor’s
election business a year or two ago.
The Tom Moore concert painted the Town
Hall emerald green the other evening. .At
7.30, or thereabouts, the crowd outside our
civic barn was as large as the squeeze in-
side. When the front doors were closed, the
Peri at the portal, otherwise Policeman
XXX., was just visible over the packed mass
of humanity that clung to a precarious inch
of space on the steps. Light badinage re
Home Rule, followed by a mild counterblast
about the ancient walls of Derry, passed the
time until a “house-full” signboard told the
Worst, and a good-natured crowd slowly
melted away into the night. Ticket-holders
emerged from the scrum feeling as though
they had been mangled by a steam-roller,
then fled to the side doors to tumble into
the arms of more policemen, before finally
gaining a place inside the municipal walls.
Governor Strickland’s eldest treasure was
in the reserve with the Ministerial party.
Allen Doone lent his aid to the committee,
and fiddler Raimund Pechotsch drew his bow
across “St. Patrick’s Day.” John Lemmone
piped sweetly on his magic flute; Syd
McDonald’s pleasing tenor echoed round the
Town Hall rafters; Geraldine Ward’s melodi-
ous contralto—heard, probably, for the last
time this year, as she goes to England in a
week or so —and Reg Roberts, a tumultuous
success in “The Last Rose of Summer,” did
their bit. Alicia Nolan was at the piano.
Florence Young, under the shade of a black
velvet hat, with a fluffy white ostrich farm
round its crown, sold sweets for the cause.
The committee, which divides the loot
amongst various charities, will be driven to
put up prices next year, owing to its inability
to find a hall that will seat 6000 people.
Froebel’s birthday being conveniently situ-
ated somewhere near Empire Day, the Free
Kindergarten teachers tossed together a com-
bination sho-yv. This was held in the Con-
cordia Hall one evening last week. Barring
the accident of Froebel’s picture falling flat
on its face, and refusing to sit up straight,
the party went off without a hitch, as they
say in the classics. Britannia, as repre-
sented by a tall student, took anything she
could get from her overseas dominions.
There was a Canadian team, including a
special sample of a salmon tin. The girl
inside the label was so heavily disguised as
potted fish that when the procession moved
round the room, and admiring friends said
in a hoarse voice, “Are you Emma Jane
Snooks?” she replied from inside, “No, I am
not!” St. Andrew swaggered in front of the
Scottish oblation to Mrs. Britannia. Bruce
and the spider, the star turn of the evening,
excited the most frantic curiosity from
relatives of the spider. The patient climber
was a Scotch beastie, with short, curly legs
like Harry Lauder’s. The Young Person
inside the make-up sternly repudiated recog-
nition from her friends, and crawled round
on all fours to loud applause. School-
marm Harriet Dumolo, assistant Zoe Benja-
man, and general sec. Ellen Desailly were in
the forefront of this fuss.
The midwinter madness of the Hat is likely
to be a feature of the season’s frocking. , At
present its trimming is not more than a foot
or two high. By June 21 —isn’t that the
shortest day?—the gloaming will be mostly
Hat, and at fashionable parties the sun will
set behind a fluffy horizon of sky-scraping
feathers. '
A lioness is said to be prowling round the
rural district of Manilla, where it leaves its
footprints and gives hair-raising yells amid
the silent clocks and watches of the night.
The Tantanoola tiger, meanwhile, is lying
low and sayin’ nuflin’, but then that animal
must be about 40 years old by this date, and
it can no longer be taken seriously.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.
The Law in Victoria had another go the
other day at the old, troublesome question of
defining a “place,” within the meaning of
the Police Offences Act. Probably by a pro-
cess of exhaustion, after hearing about a
thousand cases, some finality may be reached ;
but there is no hope of it for decades yet.
In this instance bookmaker Solomon Green
was, in December, 1913, fined £3O for using
a private box at the G.P.O. for purposes of
illegal betting, said private box being deemed
a “place.” Green appealed. Judge Wasley
thought hard, and then dismissed the appeal,
but acknowledged such grave doubts on the
point that he offered to state a case for the
State Full Court, which offer was accepted.
And if either party doesn’t like its decision
there is still the High Court to go to, and
possibly the Privy Council. As to the defi-
nition of a “place,” this paper reckons it isn’t
a position, situation, locality or anything
of that sort. It is simply a perpetual source
of income to gent. one.


The MOTOR CYCLE that WINS
i—AGAINST ALL COMERS-i
The 02 h.p.
RUDGE
MULTI
s
At the English Tourist Trophy
Race, held recently in the Isle
of Man, the RUDGE-MULTI
came out Absolute Winner.
The excellence of this performance is enhanced when it is noted that
the race was open to all comers up to 500 c.c. Twin Cylinder.
The Rudge Multi, with infinitely variable gear, embodies features and
workmanship which place it in the front rank of Motor Cyles —a posi-
tion which this splendid performance confirms.
Call and see the latest models of the
Rudge Multi in our showrooms. You
will be interested in the points of dis-
tinct merit.
If you can’t call send for our Catalogue
B 36 —post free on request.
Price
£B3lO-
- SYDNEY.
BENNETT 8 BARKELL, Ltd.
Agents for Rudge=Whitworth, New Hudson and Triumph Motor Cycles,
Manufacturers of the B & B Motor Cycles,
124-132 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
HARDY BROTHERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
Gold Chain Bag's,
CS
mm
m
ESiiS
fiy-ir,
SS
m
'fU
SN?
sm
eggs
GOLD CHAIN BAGS,
Size 4 % x 4 % inches, in Case, £35.
We have the Largest Stock of Gold Chain Bags in
the Commonwealth, at prices ranging from
£2O to £lOO.
Our Stock of Silver Chain Bags is also very large.
Intending purchasers would do well to pay a visit
of inspection to the Showrooms.
Five per cent, discount allowed on all cash
transactions.
13 Hunter St., Sydney ; 118 Queen St., Brisbane
32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET, LONDON, IV.
VICE-KEG AL
JEWELLERS
Splendid Novels
1 FROM THE ■
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Books.
Price: 1/-each; posted, 1/1
“Oft His Majesty’s Service.” By hoy bridges.
Just published. An absorbing historical story introducing Australia’s first
bushranger, the notorious Mike Howe.
“Billy Pagan—Mining Engineer.” By Randolph Bedford.
The sensational adventures of a Sherlock Holmes mining expert.
“In Racing Silk.” By gerald Baldwin.
An interesting tale of the turf, intermingled with an absorbing love interest.
HUMOROUS BOOKS.
By EDWARD DYSON.
THE MISSING LINK.
TOMMY THE HAWKER.
BENNO, AND SOME OF THE PUSH.
FACT’RY ’ANDS.
SPORTING STORIES.
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
RUNG IN.
GAMBLERS’ GOLD.
A ROGUE’S LUCK.
IN THE LAST STRIDE.
Write for Complete Catalogue of
EIGHTY CREAT AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
Published by
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
1
a?
xv
<o
NSD-
£*/
O
X
o
%
MF
4
Look for the Red S sign in all our Shop Windows.
General Management for Australasia—
Stephen Court, 77=79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.


FROM
B|6.
df
CRIMEAN SHIRTS
ARE COSY FOR WINTER WEAR*
There is no need to feel the chill winds of Winter.
Farmer’s cosy Crimean Shirts afford ample protection
against cold and are exceedingly comfortable. They
are well made, fit perfectly, and will give splendid
service.
They may be had in two styles, with neat stripes
and colorings. One is made with collar and pocket,
the other with a linen neckband for wearing with
ordinary collars; each style has smart rifle cuffs.
Farmer’s Crimean Shirts wash splendidly, and are
unshrinkable,
Prices: 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 14/6 & 16/6.
FARMER’S PAY CARRIAGE.
FARMER’S SYDNEY.
PITT, MARKET & GEORGE STREETS
THE FASHION PERFUME
OF TO-DAY.
sX
, ft
ParfOn)
LilaS
Manufactured by
GUSTAV
LOHSE,
BERLIN.
Imitated but not
equalled.
Sole
Agent:
A.O. SCHMIDT, William Street
MELBOURNE.
The
Oriental
Hotel,
MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA’S MODERN HOTEL.
Now open lor the reception ol Guests.
The most Hygienic Conditions and Refined
Elegance are distinctive features.
Any size suite of compartments.
Tariff from 15/- per day.
ERNEST McINTOSH, General Manager.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, June 1, 1914.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Some of the housekeepers of Melbourne
have discovered that lid. per lb. for the
family steak and llfd. for something else is
more than either their temper or their
pockets can bear. A lot of them lately met
together and christened theipselves “The
Consumers’ Defence League.” I understand
they are going to say something or do some-
thing to somebody about the high cost of
living, and I have climbed a tree in order to
get a good view of the proceedings, whatever
they may be.
Lady Denman’s wardrobe mistress did not
return to England with the family. Mel-
bourne is quite good enough for her, and she
hopes to remain in its midst as the flourish-
ing hostess of a well-ordered paying-guestery
with “Rissoles a la Maison G ouvernement”
and so forth on the menu.
The visiting Hartmann Just is getting his
meals and a shakedown at Federal Govern-
ment House during his Melbourne stay, and
finds them quite satisfactory ; but I can’t hon-
estly recommend the place to anyone who
is prepared to pay.
After listening attentively, I have come
to the conclusion that the G.-G. hasn’t what
you might call a kilted accent; he just burrs
his “r” sufficiently to make his speeches
musical.
Dick Nevill is at large in Melbourne again,
after waving a canary-gloved farewell to his
late chief from a Westralian pierhead. He
is now busy saying good-bye to friends before
making back to England via Canada.
The ex-Gaud Mayoral Daveys got back
from London by the Marmora, and went to
stay with the Charlie Beauchamps at St.
Kilda. The buxom Davey dame says she is
much better, thank you. If you have any
memory left, my dear, foolish Yarrie, you
will remember that she spent a bad time and
a lot of money in London private hospitals.
Arthur Streeton’s show will be a sure test
of the possibilities of the V.A.S. gallery for
picture-market purposes. Not many pic-
tures —or many pot-boilers, for that matter
—have been sold off the walls of the building
in Albert-street since Streeton started the
boom in Australian art a few years ago. He
set it going at the Guildhall, where Blamire
Young followed suit, and then the upper
Athenmum Hall become the market place.
On Friday the patrons of Art will be asked to
climb the Eastern Hill, and gather at the
home of the V.A.S. Thursday is for the
Press, and for the next week or two after that
Streeton will be renting the premises.
Artist Streeton says that the Cubists and
the rest of them have played the deuce with
art in Paris. Modern French art is even
worse than modern French dressing, and
more gone at the knees. A picture that really
resembles its subject is considered contempt-
ible and a back number. The Parisian police
alone still cling to the truthful old system
of portraits. You can’t apply these freak
varieties of art to the plain business of
criminal catching.
“The Work of Frederick McCubbin” is
the latest Lothian proposition. The idea of
modest Fred bursting forth as the hero of
his own book is non-entertainable, of course:
it is to be biographical, not auto-ditto.
James McDonald will do the letterpress,
narrational and critical. Twenty-five repro-
ductions (6xB) of the best McCubbin pic-
tures, in three colors, will adorn the
handsome volume; likewise two dozen repro-
ductions in black and white. The edition
will be limited to 1000 copies; price two
guineas to subscribers and three guineas
after publication. An impressive induce-
ment is offered to subscribers. Their names
will be printed in the book, “in order of
receipt, and thus be a record of art lovers.”
Really, it is time that Melbourne had some
record of its art lovers. Time was when
there were none to record.
Daisy Jerome was responsible for a cafe
ehantant, at ss. per hat, at the Oriental last
Thursday afternoon. The audience is still
plastering its bruises and counting its sound
ribs; but no fatalities have been recorded so
far. The Best People were intent on getting
their money’s worth, and butted and elbowed
towards the ehantant area, where there
might have been room for a quarter of them
if they had been able to stay quite still and
flat and suspend breathing. The best-
drawing mummers from the various theatres
did their little bits amiably on the few inches
of platform by the piano. But the strug-
gling people under the feathers were so
deeply involved in the riot that they hardly
knew who was performing. In the midst
of the surge, furiously angry with itself for
being so dense, a timid, plump dame, in
glasses and a coral-pink feather, was being
trampled to death. (I know she supported
a pink feather, because it was down my
throat three times and in my left eye twice.)
The excessively trodden-on dame turned
out to be Mayoress Hennessy. Mrs.
Quinnell, of the Austral Salon, worried
to the rescue, breathing apologies and con-
dolences. Then she heroically dug the lady
out with her elbows and piled her on half a
chair near a table marked “Reserved.” The
other half of the chair and a few sandwich
crumbs were covered, in turn, by Mrs. Hagel-
thorn and some other dames she had brought
along to the crush. Daisy Jerome gave up
her chair to somebody with a title or an
extra-long osprey, and climbed aboard a tall
ice-chest. Her red hair supported a lace
cap, on which a golden bird of paradise
pecked in a lifelike manner, and her figure
was more or less enclosed by an ermine-
edged frock that would have startled you in
a ballroom. Presently, from the midst of
another scrum, a dazed and panting woman
emerged. She was arrayed in bluey-yellow
feathers, a Leghorn hat and blue loose-
covers. This was the Forrest dame. She
had Doris Blackwood in tow, and Doris
seemed to be enjoying herself hugely. She
looked fresh and full of fight in fawn, with a
blue silk hat held down with a pink posy in
front. In a twinkling, Daisy had hauled her
up, and from the eminence she was able to
see the chests and heads of the various per-
formers across a raging sea of hats. Some
Fairbairns and Mrs. Watt were understood
to be somewhere in the riot, and a few for-
lorn men were sighted drifting hither and
thither like wreckage. Some of them were
seized and sent out to get more tea, but.
were never heard of again. They are sup-
posed to have lost their moral footing and
fallen into a licensed crevasse with a bar-
maid in it. The money rolled in well, and
about £l5O was afterwards handed over to
the Sisters of Mercy, as the result of a merci-
less afternoon.
“Never Say Die,” Niblo’s present comedy,
is the kind of show the person who keeps
late hours drops into on the way to some-
thing else. It begins at something past
eight, and, after sandwiching in two long
intervals, closes up at something past 10.
Most other shows could do the same without
cutting their vital parts. It is the uphol-
stery and the trimmings that keep playgoers
out of their beds and bore them to the verge
of sleep—though most of them are too greedy
to see it.
Do all American millionaires eat boiled
eggs with hunks of toast like Fred Niblo,
instead of with a spoon? If so, all the
debutantes hereabout have decided to marry
Australians for love, or else rule boiled
eggs off the food list of any American mil-
lionaire they may capture. But stay—does
a millionaire deteriorate financially if he
doesn’t get boiled eggs?
Fred Niblo Woodbury, in “Never Say
Die,” objecting to the funereal significance
of “Di” as an abbreviation of Dionysius, is
a reminder of the story of the late Huddle-
stone, barrister (afterwards Baron Huddle-
stone, the Judge), and Bernal Osborne, the
accepted Irish wit of the House of Commons.
Mr. Huddlestone, dull and middle-aged, be-
came engaged to Lady Diana Beauclerk,
sister to the Duke of St. Albans. She also
was middle-aged, but Huddlestone couldn’t
contain his joy at being on cuddlesome terms
with the daughter of a dead dook and the
sister of his successor. In court, in sassiety,
or at the club, he bored his friends with his
references to Lady Di, and “Di and I,” and
Di without the I. Up to then he had been
a crestless commoner, but his approaching
marriage into the aristocracy required him
to choose a crest and motto of his own, he
thought. He invited his club cronies to
suggest a motto, and Bernal Osborne
snapped out “Never say Di.” Huddlestone
looked rather crestfallen when he saw the
joke.
The other Friday the Ross-Soden matron
invited some of the Best People to listen to
the warbling of Maggie Stirling’s top-notch
pupils, at the end of the “Grong Grong”
dancing apartment. Needless to say that
Rosa Alba, who has lately been featured at
the Auditorium “Pops,” was the star. Ruby
Dixon, looking something of a Cleopatra in
a leopard-skin wrap, came in an excellent
second.
Marion Marcus Clarke, of the Fred Niblo
Co., has quite recovered the eyebrow and
cheerfulness she lost through a silly accident
that happened about supper-time the other
night. Some irresponsible who hadn’t the
thinking habit jabbed a lighted cracker
against an inflated toy balloon, and Marion,
happening to turn her head at the wrong
instant, caught the force of the small explo-
sion in one eye. A thoughtful member of
the party threw oil on the troubled optic and
hoped it felt better, while the rest of the
party united in kicking the non-thinker —
at least I hope they did.
Young actor-man Pirie Bush has been in
Dr. Moore’s private healery since Sunday
week getting a divorce from his appendix.
He was joint hon. sec. with Louise Pinschof
for the Pierrot Ball, which happens on June
6, but the appendix trouble came along and
he had to book himself for an early engage-
ment in the operating theatre. It must have
been a sudden case, for the young man
shared a Tivoli box with the Niblos the day
previous to the operation. He certainly
looked pale and wore the aspect of one who
was not feeling as well as usual; but it
might have been his corns that time.
Mrs. George Tallis is murmuring of a
family trip to Europe at the end of the year.
The stay will be a long one, it is said. But,
dear Yarrie, though friends leave us, we must
still keep a stiff upper lip, put our shoulders
to the wheel and strive to reach the top of
of the tree.
Rieke Parker, the clever Australian girl
pianist, has just passed some wonderful
examination in Berlin —at least I guess that’s
what it is. it was at the lloch Schule, and,
though it sounds like a drink, it must be more
than that, because all her friends are giving
three cheers and running up and down trees
to work off their joy.
The J. C. Williamson widow has brought
her two daughters to Melbourne and has
settled down with them in the best flat in
the Oriental.
On Thursday evening young Mischa Elman,
the violinist, is to be lionised by the musical
souls at the Marshall Hall Conservatorium.
With memories of Kubelik still .haunting
them, the souls will be looking for eccen-
tricity in the Genius. But there are hopes
for Mischa. He was drawn very young into
the musical-sassiety vortex, and is under-
stood to have a more joyous temperament
than the previous infant phenomenon. As
for his capacity to charm the merely-moder-
ately musical with his fiddle —well, it will be
tested on Saturday at the Auditorium.
The City Newsboys are to serve as an ex-
cuse for a spree on July 8. The Stanley
lady, as president, held a solemn meeting
at State Government House on May 27,
and maintained order amongst the Best
Pushers while they chose their office-bearers.
Mayoress Hennessy and the Alex. Landale
dame are the vice-presidents, and Esther
Fairbairn is hon. secretary.
Since last Wattle Hay raid one section of
suburban shovers has been utterly sup-
pressed and ignored and treated as though
it was dead. Most of the backbitings and
revolutionary sentiments indulged in by the
Lost Legion are unprintable. Compared with
a snubbed woman a puff-adder is a miserable
incompetent in the art of being nasty.
Ruby Roberts, the champion billiardiste,
is at present playing young Lindrum a game
of 16,000 up, at Alcock’s rooms. Ruby is
fair and small, with a pair of keen blue eyes,
and she uses her cue a lot better than most
women do the pot-stick or the broom. Young
Walter Lindrum, her opponent, is about 15,
and plays rather better than Ruby. He keeps
his chalk handv in his pocket; but, as Ruby
hasn’t got a pocket, she carries hers in a
silver holder which dangles by a chain from
her belt. She dresses for the part in neat
black silk, with white cuffs and collar, and
takes shelter in a shadowed corner while
waiting her turn. Women are admitted
free, but, as there are no free tea-and-bun
intervals, and no one speaks a word during
exciting breaks, the match hasn't been rushed
by the Very Best Parrots.
Gardening is becoming a popular accom-
plishment with the unfair sex. Prescott
the director of the Burnley Horticultural
School, has the knack of enthusing his girl-
pupils. Amongst the new recruits are Mary
Duffy, whose pa is on the High Court bench - ;
Miss Crother, whose dad is head of the
Brighton Grammar School; Dr. “Plevna”
Ryan’s daughter, and Flora McDonald,
daughter of solicitor Hector Me. When they
are married they will know how to sool
their husbands on to the snail. Carl Bogue
Luffmann, the former director of the Burnley
rose studio, helped to make the school popu-
lar amongst lady students, and many Society
girls and matrons won their diplomas during
his term. Mrs. Bogue, now Liberal Leagu-
ing in N.S.W., was his very efficient A.D.C.
One of the most unique gardens in Mel-
bourne is owned by George Dickson, in St.
George’s-road, Toorak. Mrs. Dickson’s par-
ticular patch faces the Dandenong hills, and
it is her fancy or fad to let the patch closely
resemble natural bush, with gum-trees, uncut
grass, scrub, bracken,. etc. “Running wild”
is how its owner describes it. By way of
contrast, Yiola Dickson’s domain is
arranged on the prim Old English model,
with a sun-dial which she recently brought
with her from England. She has also a per-
gola, or avenue of pillars, leading to the
front door. But personally I am in favor
of letting h garden run riot. A garden can
run riot cheaply, and you can lie at ease
with your feet up watching it do so. There’s
no scheme like it for restfulness.
Iceberg Irvine has built himself a new
home at Eltham, the pretty painter’s dis-
trict which sleeps beyond restful Heidelberg.
There he hopes to conquer his old enemy
rheumatism, and lead the healthful, open-air
life with his family, while teaching them
how to grow fruit and run a garden.
Ernestine Stevenson, the particular chum
of the lady, has apparently
wearied of the simple social round and its
interminable cups of tea. She has pur-
chased a dress-building foundry and gathered
a staff of female riveters, and the cup of
tea may be poured down the sink. The
Society shop-lady is becoming more and more
frequent hereabouts. Two daughters of the
late Bryan O’Loghlen have lately opened
an exclusive hattery. By the way, has any
reduced Person of Family ever burst into
the boot business or driven a milk-cart?
The men’s hat-makers hereabouts seem to
know their business a good deal better than
the European exporters who flood the Aus-
tralian market with fever-germed felts from
insanitary factories. A light and frisky hat
which Adolphus affects these times is a “tri-
umph of local manufacture,” known as “The
Thoroughbred,” and branded with a gee-gee’s
head in guarantee of good faith. The title
and trademark were an inspiration. “The
Stadium” would be an appealing name for
headgear of the hard-boxer sort. But for a
sleek, stylish hat “The Thoroughbred” takes
the tea-cake.
A kindly motorist was sitting in his car
in Collins-street the other day, when the
door of a house further down was flung
open and a furious duet became audible.
Presently the debate grew fiercer, a girl was
shoved through the doorway, a box slid after
her and the door slammed-to with a crash.
The girl, whose hat was over one tear-dimmed
eye, tugged the box down the steps and
across the footpath, and then sat on it and
had an animated conversation with herself.
Now, the motorist’s wife had been without
a servant for three months, and was flying
distress signals in both morning papers. The
lady talking to herself on the box was plainly
one of the Maryann species. The motorist
hurried round to the front of his machine,
wound it up. jumped in and sent it rolling
down to where the ejected sat solilo-
quising. “Excuse me,” he cooed, as the
car came to a standstill, “excuse me, but do
you want a place V” He was a nice-looking
man, the car was a respectable one and he
could have supplied her with references and
if necessary, a photograph of his wife and
a copy of their wedding certificate. He
smiled a beautiful smile as he leant over the
side, for he felt like the melodrama hero who
has arrived amidst cheers at the right second.
Any balanced female would have smiled
through her tears, had her box put in, and
been driven off in triumph—if only to enrage
the people inside the house. But the she-
Hamlet must have beer too upset to think
straight, for she looked at her would-be res-
cuer from under her bashed hat, burst into
tears and cried, “Oh, you go to !” The
motorist’s wife is still advertising.
The remarks of “Rosna,” in Britain: —
Besides exhibiting in the Old Salon and at the
great Pittsburg art show, South Australia’s Margaret
R. Macpherson has one of her still-life pictures on the
line at the Royal Academy. Will Ashton, of the
same expansive State, is also decking the line, and
another Adelaidean, Gladys Reynell, has likewise
achieved an artistic execution, being well hung at the
same show.
Gladys, daughter of John Waddington, once of
Westralia, was married the other morning here in
London. The bridegroom is Devereux John, son of
the Hon. R. C. Tollemache. The Waddingtons, by
the way, claim relationship with the famous French-
man who was once his country’s spokesman in Eng-
land. The Madame in that case was an American,
whose reminiscences were lately running in the
Centuey magazine.
From my Adelaide correspondent: —
Miss Ethel Barringer is heard from in London,
where she is working like a perfect little slave at
etching, enamelling and portraitures—mainly
enamelling. She has spent toilsome months in London
and in the English counties, and now she is off to
Paris. It is a hard, hard life, that of the earnest
genius.
T. D. Porter, the Deputy Surveyor-General, has
gone off the Government paysheet after nearly 49 years
of service. When he entered the Lands Department in
’65 the substance on which the backbone is urged to
settle was sold for cash only, and for not less than
£1 an acre at that. Four years later the credit sys-
tem came into force, and in ’B7 the first Lands Boards
were appointed, with Mr. Porter as secretary to one
of them. Since then he has seen big changes, not the
least being that in his own salary, which began at
3s. 6d. a week. He had held the position of Deputy
Surveyor-General since 1911, and before that had done
good work as chairman of various Land Boards. Mr.
E. Britten Jones succeeds him.
The Active Service Veterans held their annual din-
ner on Saturday, with the Governor and Lieut.-Oolonel
Sellheim as the chief guests. About 40 of them turned
up. One, by name J. H. White, had served in the
Navy in the China Seas in 1857.
Mrs. R. D. Ryder arrived from India by the Mar-
mora on Saturday, on a visit to her parents, Mr. and
Mrs. C. H. Angas. The new Angas house in North
Adelaide, by the way, is nearly finished; in fact, it
is expected to be fit for human habitation before the
end of the winter.
The first concert in connection with Heinicke’s
scheme of a permanent orchestra for Adelaide occurs
on Saturday night. The Galways are aiding and abet-
ting the movement or plot, and will be present at the
concert. The idea is to form an orchestra of about
50 or 60 performers, and to that end a trust fund
is being formed. Mr. C. H. Angas has contributed
£lOO, with a promise of more.
At Pirie, the other day, the Governor was publicly
welcomed by the citizens, addressed by the Pioneers'
and Young Men’s Associations and the Council
of Churches, and induced to visit four or five
schools, the Fire Brigade and the B. H. Proprie
tary Co.’s works, as preliminaries to sit-
ting through a banquet and an entertain-
ment arranged by the Young Men’s Associa-
tion. Is this loyalty, or malignant cruelty, my
dear ? For my own part, I am in some doubt. The
next day the potentate went on to Hummocky and
Iron Knob, and looked in at Petersburg for a repe-
tition of his Pirie experiences. The South-East is
to be the scene of the next vice-regal tour, which is
timed to fit in with the Mount Gambier races.
Meanwhile, Lady Galway has been promising her
patronage to a few more societies, and has been
visiting some of the Free Kindergartens.
J. N. Crawford, the cricketer, who is off to M.L.,
was farewelled at the South Australian Hotel on
Wednesday, with Mr. Mostyn Evan in the chair and
Clem Hill and Joe Darling as assistant orators. Also,
the parting guest was given a pair of gold sleeve
links and an umbrella, this last being a nasty
smack in the eye for the M.L. climate.
The Presbyterian Assembly decided on Wednesday
in favor of marriage with a deceased wife’s sister.
So the community breathes freely once more.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


m
B
•- -<*
I
(
Sfi
•f*
a
a#
y =
M
8
11
M6HKK
li
111
4
m
. ’ si' ‘ ■ ■ !} \
u «*< - %'fj
m
K
lit
mm
e
:
:
m
a
4
I
r
sSsffl
IP
• ■
ns
I
/.
PI
m
&
m
■ ■
*/
r
#W-
v-
S'
's~
4J
mm
m
1I
V
*
I «
i m
£
X A,
Joseph Simpson , R.B.A.
Copyright. John Dewar & Sons, Ltd.
Just a wee deoch an doris, Just a wee drap, that s a ,
Just a wee Johnny Dewar, Afore we gang awa’.
There’s a wee wifie waitin’, In a wee but an ben;
If ye can say, “It’s a braw bricht moonlicht nicht,” It’s been real Dewar’s ye ken,
sdf
This Picture is the Fourteenth of a Series of colored Portraits of famous Scots published by
.
JOHN DEWAR SONS, L TD " scotch whisky Distillers, Perth & London


Tor all parts of your
Motor Gar
WOOO OLA^S
Bon
sdf
Bon Ami removes the dirt only-
polishes beautifully, and will not
scratch.
For'
ithrooms
Bon Ami
Just try it in your bathroom.
Bon Ami
is the best
for tiling,
marble,
enamel
and
porcelain
Ml Scmtetlcd mi
3j
THe World’s Best.
DAIMLER
Motor Lorry.
■Silent Knight Engine.
Shaft Drive No Chains.
sd
SUNSHINE
Motor Cars P’t’y
Melbourne.
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney &. Adelaide,J
Sole
Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
NO ESCAPE.
1ST GLOOMY COVE: “Anyhow, (here's always
the consolation of knowing that things can t
go on for ever. We must die sooner or
later.”
2ND DO: “ Yes: but even then, dear boy, I've
got a family vault.”
“Moana”: As the strangest manner in
which a fish was ever caught 1 offer the following.
One of the horses at a butter factory in Taranaki
(M.L.) went down to the adjoining creek to have a
drink, when a 51b. eel took a firm grip of its lower
lip. The startled nag tossed up its head and threw
the marine boa-constrictor out on to the grass, where
the man who belonged to the horse promptly killed it.
George Augustus Sala. of the
rubicund nose and the encyclopaedic pen, who when he
visited Melbourne was too “indisposed” to turn mi
at the Yorick Club’s dinner in his honor, specialised
in the London Daily Telegraph in the writing of
articles suggested by trivial incidents and containing
a lot of out-of-the-way information. There is no
longer a Sala on the D.T., but the tradition he estab-
lished still lingers in the office. On Easter Monday,
at the Zoo, an alleged little girl inquired for the
bunyip, and the D.T. made nearly a column out of
it. For instance: “The Australian blacks know the
bunyip, and refuse to bathe in certain deep and dark-
some pools which are the chosen home of the mon-
strous beast.” Also, Australian nurses say: “If
naughty little girls do not mend their ways they will
be sent away to the bunyips.” So the great cause
of spreading enlightenment on the subject of Aus-
tralia’s vast natural resources continues to prosper so
exceedingly that, on the strength of them, Willie Hol-
man is still able to borrow a million once a fort-
night or so.
“Medieus”: My entry for the Dead rjmit
Competition in letter-writing. It was sent to a local
storekeeper:—
Here Sur, —pies send guds at wons, want them for
Kismis. 61bs. raisints them butes you sent arnt the
rite sort butes you sent 9 italics 7. you must think
I got fete like blackfellows Ivanoos bag flour 91b.
sugar 61b. rise. Had a bad fire to day burned nearly
all me grass and frightened the doos out of the
cows old womans been sic ever since lb. bakin sodur
pakit cawnflower fer groel. The cows have gawn off
ther milk and sore tits and wont fede 101 b. good
bakin not dried horse like last time with a hide a
hinch thik lib. shugar it gave perticklerel to the
rabits and the ares burnt cm rite out tin trekel (>
(ins jam. tell the butcher to send out 121 b. lost,in
mete and ther bill and I will settll im wen I come in,
all is well baran the missus and cows off their milk
with sore tits and two kids with meslus Open vou
are the same Merry Kismis as it leaves me at present
boks hanterbilyus pils packet spice tin pepper send
coil barb wire, grindstone 6 pare butes send strong
wons 61b. cheese ded. cheese this trip the last chees
you sent krorled off the table tell Kemiste to send
bottle of kure for old rone cow that delekit Jim he
fel off cart last week and bust his trouses tin cornbefe
4 bar sope 4 pare socks all for big fete that bucket
you sent lekes like el. Wishing you a happy new
yere bottle pane killer.—l remaine ect, eet, —i —.
“Gouger”: Found myself in the gods
t’other night, viewing Cooktown’s moving blud-and-
thunder show. A predominant feature of the show
was half a tribe of the local binghi, done up in its
Sunday best, together with the female binghis in
openwork blouses, no socks, no petticoats and no
boots. The rest doesn’t matter. When the bold, bad
cowboy with the six-barrelled squirt held up the
best girl’s best boy there was
a gasp of anticipation, fol-
lowed by a hollow groan as
the best boy bit the dust
with half a cwt. of lead in
his tummy. Then what a
roar when up as the best
girl, followed by a whiskered
sheriff and a score of ar-
mored cowboys galloped on
the fleeing lead-squirter's
track. The blacks leaned
eagerly forward, big-eyed
with excitement, as the pur-
suers gained on the roadside
murderer. Presently all the
black brethren were on tip-
toe. Finally, the best girl,
•after about 60 well-aimed
shots, plunked a junk of lead
into the runaway’s horse just
where it was liable to do
most good. Thereupon a yell
went up, “By cripes, she got
him dat time. No, he’s up.
Him run behind dem rocks.”
Off iumped the best girl and
made for “dem rocks.” She
carried a brace of life ex-
tinguishers in her hands and
a dozen more 'round her belt.
The pent-up audience yelled.
“By cripes, you look out. He
behind dem rocks.” A sort
of young explosion followed,
finally resolving itself into
the best girl lying stretched
on the cold, hard ground,
with her best dress quite
dirty, and a bit of lace show-
ing round the edges. Of
course the bad bushranger lay
dead, and, of course, the best
boy came galloping up with
a fathom of bandages round
his head. He’d been only
stunned, of course. Of
course he lifted the best girl
in his arms, and, of course,
slie revived. Frantic cheering and “plurry.” It is
amazing how our colored brother shouts “plurry”
when he thinks the world is going well with him.
*- * * * .jj.
"Zainia”: The best-looking tree in the
bush is the Moreton Bay ash. It differs from its com-
rade, the rough-skinned ironbark, inasmuch that it is
of the smoothness of velvet. But the Moreton Bay
ash has one drawback; its smooth bark is a harbor
for wasps and caterpillars that from their abode
throw dust on your dress-suit when you shake the
tree. If you are in a hurry, put a piece of the
wood in the fire, and I bet. it breaks the resolution
of a pious man. It will do nothing but smoke.
Also, when you make a house of the timber it in-
vites all the borers in the country to attack it.
On the other hand, it could, in suitable lengths, be
of great use in discouraging Freetraders, anti-Defence
looneys, State Frights and other public nuisances.
“Lasi”: I rush hurriedly forward to cor-
rect one “Oibi” (B. 26/3/’l4), in his statement that
the Government of Papua has not done anything to
prevent the discolored brethren of Iviwai Island
(Papua) absorbing the joy-juice known as gamada.
Chadband, in the shape of the missionary, took it
upon himself to discourage the use of the vegetable;
and then Law and Order discovered that it was not
a good thing for the cheerful savage to
wrap himself around, so it was included in
the Native Regulations, along with the infor-
mation to intending sinners that it would
be ss. or 14 days if they were caught imbibing it.
Gamada is very sad stuff to have a jag on, its prin-
BUSINESS FIRST.
OUR VILLAGE SOPRANO (singing):
"Where are you going to, my pretty maid?”
“It’s going to rain, kind sir,” she said.
“Sir,” she said.
“Sir,” she said.
“And we'll water the milk, good sir,’ she said.
BILL (wildly excited): “How did you dodge the inspector, Miss?”
cipal effect being to make the drinker miserable and
stupid. The Kiwai man is at all times thick in the
crust, but, after a night's spree on gamada, he is to
all intents and purposes an imbecile. This is not its
only effect on him. Some chemical in the juice
appears to be acted upon by the gastric fluids in such
a way that the imbiber perspires very freely, and
the perspiration is just plain awful. Take one long-
dead whale, nine glue foundries, a Brisbane evening
vehicle, seven fertiliser factories and a defunct
hypocrite; mix them up well and distil the essence
into a two-ounce phial, and you will have a breathing
acquaintance with a Kiwai k-nut after a long even-
ing’s interview with gamada.
“Guinea Gold”: Papua still maintains a
gorgeous color scheme in so far as its population is
concerned. The census of the 30th June, 1913—the
latest official muster —shows the following friends of
Bruce Smith and Sunlight Lever to be resident in
the territory:—•
Samoans . . . . . . . . 115
Rarotongans . . . . . . . . 47
Solomon Islanders . . . . . . 47
Fijians . . . . . . . . . . 32
Malays .. .. . . . . .. 20
Japanese . . . . . . .. 9
Singapore Chows .. .. .. 3
Filipinos . . . . . . .. 19
West Indian negroes ~ .. . . 3
Tamil 1
Javanese .. . . . . . . 5
Mixed Asiatics . . . . . . . . 15
Various Pacific Islanders .. .. 92
408
Australians and representatives of nearly all the other
white nations of the globe number 1219, an advance
on the previous year’s total of 155, the increase being
mostly due to planters, miners, and Government offi-
cials bringing their wives and families across from
the mainland. Ilalf-castes total 301, comprising
some weird mixtures. Native-born Papuans are
estimated at 300,000. They may be 3,000,000. for all
anybody knows to the contrary.
“Norbell”: At Mount Morgan (Q.) the
hardy miner doesn’t worry whether the home com-
forts of his hash turret are numerous or otherwise.
His soup may be flavored with slag, and his cafe-au-
hut may taste of dust, but he doesn't call for the
complaint book as long as the sweep syndicate is
right. 1 saw a big calico sign outside a maison-de-
steiv there the other day, and the lure was not a
hint about the excellence of the menu, or other
domestic trifles.. Not much. In 6in. letters I read:
“Mrs. Hashaway has vacancies for boarders. I send
to Hobart.”
“1.0. U.” : I wonder, my dear Bulletin,
if —apropos the recent Batman-Henty celebrations in
' ictoria—you would care to have the hitherto unpub-
lished memoirs of my grandfather, one of the pioneer
founders of Gumville. If so, a Celebration Day might
be set aside, ultimately, called Smith Day—his name
was Smith —and in other respects, I take it, (he usual
and correct things would be done. Herewith a frag-
ment from the “Memoirs of Jaoob Smith, by His
Grandson” (mj'self), as an evidence of good faith,
and so forth :—■
My grandfather was the first white man (with the
exception of about 50 other miners) to set foot in
Gumville. He was then an indomitable lad of 32.
He came over in a bullock-dray. Doubters may still
view portion of the dray where it stuck on the flat
below McGrath’s. At that time the track was all
scrub and mighty trees. Now after years of pioneer-
mg work you can barely get enough wood to boil the
billy between here and Jumbuk, and fencing posts
have to be made of concrete or else carted 60 miles.
My father was the first white baby born in Gumville.
It follows, more or less, that grandmother was the
locality s first white mother. Within the eenturv
ot grandfather's recollections Gumville has made
great strides. A great many roads and bridges and
culverts have been constructed ; very few have been
paid for. Grandfather distinctly remembers when
there was no pub in Gumville. The resultant hard-
ships were terrible, but he bore up bravelv as became
a pioneer ; and showed his resourcefulness'by keeping
the beer in the home. Dogleg at that time consisted
ot one hotel, a store and post-office and a blacksmith’s
1 here are now two hotels, a store and blacksmith’s,
and the post-office is in a separate building altogether
Grandfather had nine children His third grand-
daughter, Mrs. Deane, of Jumbuk, has twins. Dogleg
is thus enabled to boast an unbroken line of four
generations. My grandfather was the first sanitarv
contractor of Gumville, and held many other im-
portant public offices. He also painted the first
church there. Pat Doyle, of Sydney, was the first
infant christened in it. A railway was promised to
Gumville, and the first survev was made in 1890 It
is still promised. People settled on the land manv
years ago. Babbits settled there about 1895 : Scotch
thistles, foxes and stinkwort about 1900 and St
John’s wort, blackberry and Bathurst burr a little
(Continued, on page 24.
THE SNAKE IN THE SKY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A peculiar phenomenon was witnessed last evening,
•lust after sundown a bright shaft of light appeared
m the sky almost in the sunset, and about 45 degrees
above the horizon. This appeared to be from 40ft. to
50ft. m length. After a few seconds it took a spiral
form and resembled nothing so much as a gigantic
snake coiled up. It stood out snowy white and quite
clearcut in the sky for some time, and even when it
was quite dark it could be seen faintly. Large num-
bers of people witnessed the phenomenon.
—News item, from Lonr/reach (Q.).
When in agony you’re sweating,
W ith a thirst that needs no whetting,
Whilst the blood-red sun is setting,
And the bunyip leaves his nest;
When the fantods start you fretting.
It is pretty even betting
That the Joe-Joes you are getting,
In the wild and woolly West.
And you see white snakes unfurling,
Blue tarantulas uncurling,
And pink centipedes a-twirling
In a tango on your chest;
As your head is throbbing, whirling,
C ruel curses you are hurling
At the liquor which is purling
In the joyous, jagsome West.
When red devils are pursuing
Whiskered wombats, wildly mewing—•
All the splosh that you’ve been blewing
Seems a phantom like the rest;
As the bitter cud you’re chewing,
All your blighted past reviewing,
You decide that your undoing
Is the whisky of the West.
QUEENSLAND.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


RIDING BREECHES
READY TO WEAR.
Best Value in the Commonwealth.
81.
Bi.—Riding Breeches,
in Grey Saddle Twists, with
Mock Buck Strappings and
Button Knees, strong and
serviceable, 27/6.
88. 89.
bs. — Grafton Beggings,
seamless, blocked, fastening
with spring in front: Un-
dressed Leather, 21/-;
Imitation Pigskin, 22/6;
Heal Ilogskin, 35/-
B9.—Puttee Beggings,
seamless , and blocked in
natural shape, in Black Hide,
22/6; Imitation Pigskin,
22/6.
. 83.
B 3 Trousers,
in Grey Saddle Twist, se-
lected for durability, 18/0.
We Guarantee Satisfac-
tion in Everything We
82.
B 2 - Breeches,
in good, solid Saddle Twists,
made with Button Knees and
strapped with same material.
Ready to wear, 25/-
Strong, Serviceable Leg-
gings for Country Use.
810. Bit.
Bio.—Black Hide Leg-
gings, plain, 7/C.
Bii. — Black Hide Leg-
gings, with tongue, 8/6.
We Supply the Best Goods at Australia’s Lowest
Prices—Always. Melbourne’s Premier Store.
Buckley & Nunn. Ltd.
B our Re Street, Melbourne, S.E.
NELSON’S
AIR-GAS
MACHINE
An investment that will
return 100.% is something
worth looking into. There
are not too many projects
that will show such
profits.
Expenditure saved is
equivalent to profits
earned, and the “VIC-
TORY” Air-Gas Ma-
chine is a 100% saving
concern.
We will prove this to
you if you take the
trouble to inquire. The
name of “NELSON’S”
is behind that
state ment, and
that alone is
a sufficient
guarantee.
VICTORY
g ™ ' h
The Machine that
Berts the Lot!
The “VICTORY” is the most dur-
able and reliable Air-Gas Machine on
the market. Made from Polished Sheet
Brass and heavy Iron Castings. It is
absolutely the best system for lighting,
heating, cooking and power, and positivel
the cheapest.
The Whole Plant Complete,
according: to size, from
£25
AS
ILLUSTRATED.
All Sizes in Stock, from 10 Lights unwards. No Book of Rules or Kit of
Tools required with the “VICTORY.”
The “VICTORY,” though the essence of efficiency, is extremely simple
in construction. There is no trouble or danger, no smoke, no smell.
Get rid of your old-fashioned plant; you’re losing time, temper and money
bothering with it.
Install the “VICTORY.” Ton will be astonished with the perfection of
the system and the immense saving it will effect.
Write to us at once for details and learn all about it.
Nelson’s Carbonating Co. Ltd.,
219 George Street, SYDNEY.
And at Turbot Buildings, Turbot Street, BRISBANE.
KRUPP’S HILLS
Meet all requirements
BALL HILLS
TUBE HILLS
Wet and Dry Grinding
S?i)d os yoGr Crashing problems and
W€ will tender tbs solGtions.
sfd
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD.,
499 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
(SYDNEY) LTD.,
115 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 45 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE,
■Selling Agents: ADELAIDE, STEELE BAKER ; PERTH, J. R. W. GARDAM


sd
BLACK & SMOKELESS
SPORTING & MATCH
CARTRIDGES
THE MOST RELIABLE OF ALL
AMMUNITION.
ASK YOUR STOREKEEPER FOR
KYBLACK—BLACK POWDER,
SWIFT, BONAX, PRIMAX,
GASTIGHT, P.G. SMOKELESS
POWDER.
Wholesale only
SCOTTISH HOUSE, 90 William St., Melbourne
KYNOCH HOUSE, 277 Clarence St., Sydney".
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
head office-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360=6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH-
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
“A Journalist and Two Bears,’' by James Edmond.
The biggest shilling book ever published in Aus-
tralia and the best reading. All booksellers, One
Shilling, or direct from the publishers, The Platvpus
Press, 117 Bathurst Street, Sydney, for 13 penny
stamps.*
fsd
AUSTRALIANS!!
THE
INSURE
IN
1.0. A.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Live Stock.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
16
45'
Bleeding and SnemnQ aw re Impo&iible
'aiPLtV^ci-osino
EMASCULATOR.
W'SAFETY”
Emasculator
does away with all
risk of bleeding’.
Postage Free 45/-
My “Hints on Castrating”
enable any man used to atock
to cut with the “Safety"
either Colts, Bulls, Rams, or
Boars.
Other patterns of
Emaseulators from
30/- to 50 '•
Zoeller’s “Handy”
Castrating Knife, 3/6
is a lovely hit of Steel.
Carl Zoeller,
246 Queen St.,
BRISBANE, Q.
Send for complete
Veterinary Catalog.
It’s FREE
“Silas Snell”: disturbance was brief,
but lively while it la:: . It was begun suddenly,
like a South American revolution, by the rabbit-faced
man, who habitually disgraced the ornamental grass
plot near the corner, running excitedly into the
middle of the tram-track, rotating two or three times
on his axis and screaming, “Pleece! Pleece!” Two
policemen immediately fell out of store, one rose
from the grass of the park opposite, and a sub-
inspector came round the corner. Once more Rabbit-
Pace opened his lips and screeched, “Pleece 1” One
more dropped o’ff a passing tram like a ripe plum.
Having got all the police he wanted, the disturber
of the peace pointed excitedly at a woman walking
rapidly down the opposite side of the street. “There
she goes!" he sobbed, and, taking a firm grip of his
pants, which were precariously fixed with a thin belt,
sped after her. The ragged ends of his trousers
flapped on the footpath as lie ran, and the hot breath
of the massed policemen fanned his ear. They (the
police) had no attention to spare for the people and
dogs who joined in the pursuit; they were listening
to the charges Rabbit-Face was spluttering concern-
ing the woman ahead and a dead baby concealed in
the grass. “There she goes!” wailed the accuser,
and rushed ahead like an aged cabhorse, while more
people and dogs streamed out from side-streets and
gateways and tailed on for the love of fuss and move-
ment. At last the hurrying woman was overtaken
and surrounded. “Sorry, madam, but I’ll have to
detain yez relative to wan dead baby on the grass,”
said the least breathless policeman. The woman
protested hysterically. She had never been possessed
of a dead baby in her life. “But this man says dis-
tinctly he seen you come from th’ inclosure beyant
there, lavin’ one dead child on th’ grass,” insisted
file Law. “Anyhow, me good woman, ye must come
wid us for th’ time bein’.” They led the weeping lady
back, Rabbit-Face walking ahead like a proud under-
taker and pointing dramatically where the corpse
was to be viewed. The procession moved after him,
gaining new recruits at every step. Rabbit-Face
came at last to a hole in the fence, and pushed
through; the policeman with the speaking part fol-
lowed. Seven willing men surrounded the hysterical
woman. The policeman bent reverently over some-
thing huddled in the grass. Then he uttered a sud-
den exclamation of horror or something, and,
straightening up, kicked Rabbit-Face in the pants
with great force and accuracy, just as a little girl
rushed up to claim her large, blonde over-dressed
doll.
* * * -X
‘ Stale Mate” : When my pedagogic friend,
Bob Chalker, took charge of the State School at
Wild Cat Gully he was imbued with the laudable
desire of purifying the vocabulary of the rising
generation. The particular word which gave offence
to Bob was one that Abo-writers have variously
transliterated by “crimson,” “blanky,” “sanguin-
ary,” etc. A glance at the blackboard one fine
Monday morning evoked sly titters from a couple of
dozen kiddies when they beheld in bold Roman let-
ters the word B-L-O-O-D-Y. The incipient hilarity
was checked by this outburst of oratory from
HER TURN.
HGE: “ Can't you give me an answer. It is
cruel to keep me in suspense.”
SHE: “But think of the time you have kept
me in suspense."
Chalker: “Boys, the word that you see on the black-
board is an adjective formed from the substantive
‘blood’ by the addition of the suffix £ y.’ It would
be correctly used by a butcher, who should refer to
his hands as ‘bloody,’ or by a historian in reference
to a battle in which the death-roll was considerable.
But I should-like to point out that it would be out
of place as an attribute to such terms as the ‘school-
bell,’ or the ‘history lesson,’ or even the com-
. , . ,
pound interest questions which it is mv pleasing
i, . „ . , , t • i , ... ”
duty to propound to you. I might mention in con-
i • , i . , n .. . , , .
reference to th El T /f t
w e the hiding that I hereby promise to the
caught misapplying this overworked adjec-
AUSTIN CHAPMAN
WEEK-END TOURS TO
CANBERRA
ALL THE GLORIES
OF EGYPT
FOR 27/9
(AND BRING
YER OWN
WATER)
OUR ARTIST DESIGNS A POSTER FOR THE NEW TOURIST AGENT.
Mr. Austin Chapman, M.H.R., is arranging week-end tours for Federal members who desire to see the
federal capital at Canberra. A number of the old members, as well as the new ones, have not yet seen
the capital site.— Melbourne paper.
“Tnclr <a ». mu ~ ,
JaCk . ‘ lhe Wood of tlle Queensland
cypress plne off . el 's a splendid resistance to the white
f nt ‘ Saw a pine fence the other da - v 00 y ears old
m arlt ' :infested country, and barring cracks, still
fairly and without ant
up, . t r, m ,
, ~ ' 1 echo the curse af P-tck-
ba?dle” ( B - 30/4/’l4) anent the ravages of the
P oisoil - car t- This outrageous infliction has been
blackguarded before, but it needs it often,
and in good, strong doses. Surely to the
Lord Australia’s birds have enough to con-
tend against in a natural way with-
out being attacked and wiped out
wholesale by the poison-cart. When I
say natural way I don’t include that pestifer-
ous import, the fox, which has been the
means of altogether exterminating some
species of ground-building birds in many
districts. It is just the spin of a coin which
is the worse of the two, but the fox can’t
very well help its nasty habits, and the
owner of the death-dealing vehicle can. But
they are on level terms when it comes to
usefulness. Neither of them wipes out enough
bunny to atone for what they do in the bird-
murdering- line. It is nearly time that
land-owners woke up to their own interests
in this matter, even if they can’t spare time
to nourish a bit of sentiment. These birds
of ours are one of the continent’s most
valuable assets, and the men who don’t
tumble to this fact at present will
find it out soon in a way that will
make them squeal. “Pickhandle”
raises the point that proprietors of
poison-spreaders come within easy
grasp of the law that is assumed to
protect most native birds and animals.
Of course they do, but the average
country John H. is. usually so busy
breaking the game laws himself that
he finds it convenient to draw no at-
attention to the subject—to be as
tempestuous, in a word, as a pro-
liibited person who finds a keg of beer in a cave.
“Sarto”: I know of three species of honey-
eaters mentioned by “Leo Lear” (B. 23/4/’l4)
that deserve to be pole-axed. If they would con-
fine their attentions solely to the fruit of the bee
and to insects, then the minah, wattle-bird and
leather-head wouldn’t deserve the above treatment;
but they don’t. I’ll back the minah to do as
much damage in an orchard as any other bird bar
the elephant. The wattle-bird, he of the blue-grey
body and black head, isn’t as bad as the leather-
head, but is worse than the minah. The leather-
head is a fair cow. Not content with stealing
grapes, etc., he chops the bunches to pieces with
his strong bill, just out of sheer destructiveness, and
leaves a vine bleeding to death, as it were, in a
few minutes, Incidentally this trio is about as
musical as a lunatic rasping out a selection on a
jam tin with a file. So much for the honey-eaters.
Now a word or two about bee-eaters. Under this
heading come the summer-bird and swallow (mar-
tin family) and the gorgeously-colored kingfisher.
No use saying the latter isn’t a bee-eater. Held a
post-mortem on one cove and found the crop full
of the hard grafters. The bee-eaters hover around the
apiary when the bees are returning fully laden in
the evening, and the amount of bee that is missing
when the roll is called next morning is enormous.
"Jorally speaking, these bee-eaters are honey-eaters
lor the same reason that a person who eats sand-
wiches can be called a meat-eater. One kingfisher
I’ve never known to eat bees is old laughing jack.
But I’ve seen him licking his chops over yabbies
and even mice.
“Rangan” : Bananaland’s new Liquor Act
objects to musical entertainment in the pubs under
its jurisdiction, and Billjim now knows exactly why.
A party of cane-cutters near Cairns, after saving up a
thirst that nothing but a hogshead and trimmings
could quench, found themselves leaning up against
the bar of the Hambledon Arms. The beer was as
good as the company, and soon the party sang loud
and untunefully, “The Longsleever’s Farewell,’’ or
something like that. A lonely policeman, however,
having nothing useful to do, rushed open-mouthed at
the publican for allowing public singing in his house.
Next day the P.M. handed out a fine. Defendant
grabbed his case and hoofed round to a higher Court
to obtain a definition of public singing. The superior
Bench side-stepped the definition, but quashed the
conviction. Then the Full Court was asked for a defini-
tion, and it stated that “public singing” was such
“that would attract the public,” and by way of
complimenting the choir said the fine held good. The
cane-cutters have since formed a Musical Union, with
the cook as conductor and his off-sider as mouth
organist.
“Machete”: The beautiful war-canoes of
the Solomons (yamberas) of which “Tekelo” writes
(B 7/5/’l4), had sinister associations quite apart
from tlie fierce forays for which they were chiefly
used. Up to recent years the launching of a new
yarnbera was invariably accompanied by a human
sacrifice. Our Viking ancestors are credited with
the same pleasant custom, but they indulged in the
rather messy and wasteful method of launching the
.new craft over the bodies of the victims, which
answered as skids. Like all western Pacificans, the
Solomon Islanders were of a frugal mind. They
decorated the prow of the new canoe with the
sacrifice’s head, but the carcase was passed over
to the ladies, to be cooked and eaten at the subse-
quent festivity.
“Eddyson”: David Carr stood leaning over
his slip panels, gazing with a moody eye down the
dusty track to Wallace, where the pubs were, for the
heart was sad within him, and never the taste of
whisky had crossed his lips these nine hours, and
himself hot and shaken from the roaring fine night
that went before the burying of old Dan Harrigan,
deceased, rest his soul. Maguire approached from
the other direction, going quietly in the dust, and
said he: “’N’ how’re you this fine mor-r-nin’, Davy
Carr, afther the trimindus great dthriknin’ yir done
las’ night, ’n’ for whv’re yeh lanin’ here "the day
through? Wasn’t yeh here when I went before
three hours is gone, ’n’ wid the same whistful, sad
look to yeh? Will yeh not go inside ’n’ rest frim
the sun?” “I will not go in ’n’ rest, Tom Maguire,
n well you know it. A man is master iv his own
house, t’ stay out whin he likes, ’r go in whin he
likes. Maybe no?” Carr glared fiercely at his neigh-
bor. “For sure!” said Maguire. “Would a man
quistion it wid a bold, tall boy iv your like, Davy?
He would not. Iv yeh don’t go in yiv yer good
reasons, niver a doubt.” “I’ve me reasons good ’n’
plenty,’ mourned Carr. “Me wife Hellen is wan, ’n’
me sthrappin’, sweet daugther Annie Brigid Carr,
is three others. ’Tis a matter iv four hours since
they put up an offinsive ’n’ definsive alliance agin
me, ’n troo me from me own house clane out, ’n’
me doin’ nothin’ more than playin’ a bit of hurly
wid the chair back ’n’ a thrifle iv boiled eggs, bein’
indishpesed towards breakfast, ’n’ in disagreemint
wid the domestic economy, ’n’ everythin’ the like.”
“So they troo yeh out, C-arr, ’n’ yourself a husband
u a father?” “They did then, ’n’ I’ll not go back
till it pleases me, Tom Maguire, fer you ’r anny other
man. “Far be it from me to inthrude anny wishes
’r intentions iv the kind, Davy Carr. Isn’t a man’s
house his castle at all ?” Carr went on gloomily:
"Mas a time when Hellen Carr couldn’t iv done it.
D’yeh doubt me word, Maguire, I’ll fetch yeh wan
cross the jaw yill ever remember. I cud iv defied
her to, ’n’ I done it many’s the time. But since
me little gir-r-1, Annie Bridgid Carr, have grown a
lump iv a big, swaggerin’ woman, small chanst I
have agin thim two. Mould yeh think, Maguire,
they troo me ez far as the hens is there, shwimmin’
’a divin’ in the dust? Fair on me head they troo
me, so I stood upright one min-ute be the tick iv
me watch. ’N’ I’ll not go in for you or another.
There’s a time come for a man t’ show his authority,
n trate wid contimpt the hostile diminstrations iv
a harrd wife ’n’ a dauther as fine a han’some girr'l
as walks, but widout a dacint sinse iv fair play, or
anny respect for the rules ’n’ provisions iv Christian
fightin’. So will I not go in, ’n’ be damned to you,
Tom Maguire. You’ll see ’twill be different when
me boy .Danny do come home from the drovin’. Wid
Danny away there’s no aquality iv division in me
fam’ly, Maguire. Danny is a blusterin', good lad.
yill remimber well, wid the kind hear-r-t to him ’n’
the clear brain. Five years lie’s gone come June
eleven, ’n’ he’ll be grown ez grand ’n’ clain a tall
man ez there’s livin’ annywhere. Whin lie’s to home
you’ll maybe call ’n’ see fer yoursilf who’ll be doin’
the trowin’ out thim times. ’Tis mortal harrd to a
poor man grown middlin’ old wid toil ’n’ sorrer, ’n’
wake for the need iv a gulp iv good drink, t’ find his
fam’ly onaqually divided agin him, whin his natural
appetite ’n’ inclinations is opposed to eggs biled.
But I’ll not go in, iv that I’m firmly determined.
Manewhile me son Dan is coinin’ home, as I’m afther
tellin’ yeh, ’n’ whin he does the proper order-r ’n'
de-corum iv me house will be restored, ’n’ I’ll ask
you as a favor to shtip in ’n’ note the workin’ iv
that same. ’Tis well ’n’ wise always, Maguire, t’
have dauthers ’n’ sons aquil in a fam’ly would a
man have his dignity, ’iT live wid honor ’n’ jew
respect.” Maguire went on his way, smiling and
sly, full of deceit, to spread the talk, for well was it
THE SYDNEY BA KERN STRIKE
(As we hoped it would be, but it wasn't).
Rod Quinn bakes a damper in George-street.
known in Shea’s Vale and all abroad of how Helen
Carr and her daughter Annie combined to beat the
old man when such seemed needful, and how for
years Carr had been counting on the return of his
son Danny to restore his mastery and give him the
ruling of all things. A fortnight later, acting on
information received, Maguire strolled over to Carr’s.
Carr senior was leaning dolefully on the slip panels.
He was covered with dust, and his eye was blackened
most grievously. “’Tis not fer an oldish man t’ be
much in the sun, I’m thinkin’,” said Maguire, with
low cunning. “Yill get home then, ’n’ quickly,”
replied Carr. “’N’ ( more, yill not be interferin’ wid
a gintleman’s thoughts ’n’ diversions if it’s not a
brutal sore batin’ yer lookin’ fer.” “I’d not raise a
threatenin’ hand to the broad, strong divil you are,
Davy. You’d kill me, maybe. But did I see you
trown out the while since, or was a fly in me eye at
all? Tut-tut-tut, sorry I am, Davy. ’Tis cruel,
unkind tratement fer a tall, proud roan. There
now, yill not grave whin yer son Dany comes home.
He’ll stand by yeh, will he that.” Carr glowered on
his neighbor. “Tom Maguire,” he said, “will yeh
have a bit of sinse?” He pointed to his black eye.
“Danny’s home, can’t yeh see?”


r\
A
ru
2
o
db
0>
&
0
[D
2
j~
;-'i
2
V'\.
>*
fiss
a
%
mm.
m
m
*■?»'
ks
5W*.»«
tk
mm*
$
i
&
&
a
--=«■
V -
\
MC'UNTJOY
CO/ITlflf/HTAL C**G
Rubbfr Cov.
PTY. LTD.
ALL STATFS fN.Z.
SAFETY, ECWnY,
SPEBD,
§
QfiE'ATE'ST AILPAGE.


Take Sanatogen
It’s sure to give you
Better Health, Strength
and Nerve-power.
If you are in need of a
tonic, nothing'will do you
so much good as a course
of Sanatogen.
Whether you are only a
little weak and run down,
or suffering' from some
definite disorder of nerves,
digestion or nutrition —
there is no doubt that a
course of Sanatogen will
be of real and lasting
benefit to you.
Remarkable Statements by
Famous Men and Women.
Start that course of Sanatogen
to-day. You won’t have to wait
long to feel the good of it. Never
mind if you are a little sceptical
now. Only give Sanatogen a fair
trial, and you will soon be con-
vinced, enthusiastic !
“Sceptical as I was,” writes
Sir William Bull, M.P., “I am
bound to say that Sanatogen per-
forms what it promises to do.
It has a wonderfully restorative
effect.”
w.
Us
ns
w*-.
K
y
0
v v«R,
T<
tat-
tK
“ It is only fair to say,” writes Sir Alexander
Cross, Bart., “that I have been surprised at the
results of Sanatogen. They have been just what
was predicted—a material increase in vigour and
physical fitness.”
Again, Mr. Arnold Bennett, the leading-
novelist and playwright (author of ‘ ‘ Milestones,
‘‘The Old Wives’ Tale,” etc.), writes: “The
tonic effect of Sanatogen on me is simply
wonderful.” And Mrs. Kensington, wife of
Mr. Justice Kensington, Lahore, India, writes :
‘‘l and Mr. Kensington have tried Sanatogen,
and have both found it a wonderful reviver and
tonic. It is also the best cure for digestive
troubles that I have come across.
Let Sanatogen improve your Health.
Such statements—typical of thousands of
others—cannot fail to impress even a prejudiced
reader. For they were sent voluntarily by
shrewd men and women, of high character and
position not at all the sort of people to be
carried away by facile enthusiasms, or to be
deceived by illusory sensations of benefit.
Will you do as they did? Will you, in fair-
ness to your own health, give Sanatogen a
thorough trial ?
Write to-day for a Free Booklet.
Simply drop a post-card, mentioning this
paper, to A. Wulfiug & Co., 17, Bond Street,
Sydney, N.S.W. They will send you, free,
an interesting booklet, called “How to Live
Healthily,” which tells you all about Sanatogen.
Afterwards, a regular course of Sanatogen
(sold b) r all Chemists from 2/6d. per tin), will
cost you about seven pence a day—not a “specu-
lation,” but a sound “investment,” yielding
you as guaranteed dividends “a wonderfully
restorative effect and “ a material increase in
vigour and fitness ! ” And there is no
risk Sanatogen cannot hurt you in any way,
and cannot fail to do you good. Take the first
step now —there’s no time like the present!
The Conversion of Andy Isles.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 WE L IT rimimber Barnett was the
great tipsy man kim here t' teach us
timp’rincc wid dthrink ’n’ th’ like iv
it. ’Tis all th’ vvorrld knows this min-ute
Thomas Barnett was the fine, handy bloke
wid a bottle himsilf, ’n’ it frequint happened
th' poor dear felly was debarred frim givin’.
his celebrate’ adtliress on the Rid Hot
Scorchin’ Curse iv gin be reason iv a. various
indisposition brought on be onreasonable ’n’
excessive familiarity wid his subject.
“Here et Spotbar Misther Barpett put up
et the Rabbit Hotel wid Quine, there bein’
never a nicer man nor a milder inimy iy
whisky in tli’ length iv Bungaree, north,
south,- aist or west, than that same Willie
Quine. Maybe yill rimimber him? Quine
was raysonable wid all min, V Ipm a publi-
can tuck in th’ notorious timp’rince re-
former, ’n’ give him bid ’n’ boar-rd like any
kind dthrinker iv thim all.
“Sez Quine t’ me: ‘ ’Tis not a penny iv
matter f me, annyway, for haven’t I lived
long ’n’ niver a Rickeybite, ’r evangelical, ’r
wild great man t’ put tli’ dthrink down ’n’
jump on it, have I met make sixpenny-worth
iv d iff’re nee t’ me sales one year wid an-
other. If he aizes up on tli’ pop’lar ’u’ fasli’-
nable refrishment f’r th’ time bein’ while lie’s
a roarin’ lion over tli’ countryside, ’tis made
up t’ me immedjit, ’n’ more when th’ reaction
sets in, said reaction bein’ inevitable ’n' most
thremendous !’
“So, Quine tuck Barnett in, ’n’ give him
th’ bist room ’n’ th’ fattest livin’, ’n’ th’
warrmist comfort tli’ house provided, did he
that. All th’ time he lived be Quine’s was
this splendid great orator irradiatin’ Bun-
garee wid his iloquence, ’n’ callin’ sinners t’
ill’ water-tap most piteous. But back in
Quine’s peaceable house be night would he
get twin bottles iv Scotch—’tis not fer me
t’ condemn tli’ judgment uv a man so notori-
ous wid learnin’—’n’ take to it that generous
he would soon be smasliin’ spiejers on th’
wall wid tli’ implies, ’n’ ravin’ uproarious.
“Then would Quine say : ‘ ’Tis nothin’ need
matter more than the poor body havin’ his
fit aftlier tli' heat ’n’ bur-r-den iv puttin’
down tli’ Divil’s dthrink. Lave him be. will
yeh? TIP same is sayzures ’n’ affections iv
tli’ heart ’n’ liver do take a holt iv nervous,
fine min who wear thimselves t’ pieced
stlirivin’ fer tli’ benefit iv Immunity like o’
that.’
“But betimes Barnett converted Andrew
Isles. Was never a more serious ’n’ deter-
mined conversion ever, tli’ same Andrew
Isles havin' bin one most obstropulous
dthrinker frim his tintli year, ’n’ him 50 ’n’
more. ’Twas Quine’s best custodier, ’n’ a
man wid land Burke ’n’ Wills wouldn’t find
the end to. Careless iv money was Isles,
and tli’ great smasher ’n’ breaker wid tli’
whisky hot in him, so bein’ a profitable man
t’ have in a bar all times.
“Whin Misther Barnett got a holt iv Andy,
’n’ exhorted him. ’n’ exhorted, ’n’ exhorted,
till th’ simple good man was mizmirised wid
langwidge ’n’ noisy big wor-r-rds, he shwore
be tli’ Book ’n’ his name to the receipt, all
stamped' ’n’ legal, he’d dtbrink no more
unnecessary dthrink till tli’ ind iv tli' wor-r-ld,
alinien. so help him, all the saints livin’ ’n’
dead.
" 'Twits a sad, sore blow t' Willie Quine,
mind yell, but never a sign he made nor a
bad wor-rd spoke, mornin’ or night, but tuck
th’ same good care iv Barnett, ’n’ would let
him have his fit kind ’n’ considerit.
“Whin tli’ Rickeybite preacher wint on t’
Ballybeen, ’n’ Pothook, ’n’ tli’ like places,
spreadin’ tli’ good wor-rk ’n’ tli’ tidings iv
great joy, Willie Quine shook him be th’
hand that brotherly you’d think wid your
own eyes he’d never loved a man better.
“When Barnett come back from Pothook
nine days aftlier, Andy Isles was still tim-
prit, ’n’ a model iv good-livin’ ’n’ th’ gentle-
ness ’n’ profit that comes from dthrinkin’
water mornin’, night’ n’ betimes, by which
token ’twould seem Willie Quine have lost
manny a good gould sov’rin to his till.
“Misther Barnett tuck gr-r-eat pride in
Andrew Isles, ’n’ held him up before all min
fer a livin’ ixample ’n’ a burrnin’ brand
himself had quenched wid th’ purlin’ tide
fritn tli’ crystal spring, T wor-rds iv tli’ like
inti lit.
“Th’ good, grey timprince man preached a
return season here et Spotbar, ’u’ agin he re-
sided wid Willie Quine et tli’ Rabbit, ’n’ his
meetin’s ’n’ tli’ like was all attinded be
Andrew Isles ez a livin’, visible proof iv what
can be done be tli’ power iv fine, big talkin'.
“Well, Barnett have another fit most ap-
propriate, ’n’ ’tis a more tormentin’ n’ ruin-
ous loud fit than all times before. It so
happened—tli’ how ’n’ tli’ why I’m lavin'
t’ yer own judgmint—Barnett broke free
that night, ’n' wont stormin’ up tli’ hills ’n’
over, defyin’ tli’ stars iv God. ’n’ puttin’
his come-hither on tli’ moon itself, whirlin’
a full bottle to ay I her hand, vainglorious,
’n’ a king of tli’ wide world. ’N’ he made
to Andrew Isles’s own front dure, ’n’ he’d
knock on it wid a bottle t’ wake tli’ dead
ancestors iv th’ Holy Moses. Someone kim
to him, ’n’ Avould have him go for a dthruuken
dishturber.
“ .‘But,’ sez Misther Barnett, ‘I will not go.
I’ll see Andrew Isles.’
“ ‘Misther Isles will not see a soul at all.’
sez tli’ gir-r-1, ‘him bein’, on his knees in his
shirt this blessed min-ute. sayin’ pray’rs iv
thankfulness ’n’ glory that tli’ curse iv drink
have left him.’
“‘Tell him I’ll see him.’ sez Misther Bar-
nett. ‘Tell him ’tis Thomas Barnett, the
man who saved him. Whooroo!’ he sez.
“Wid some more small ar-rgument they
admit Barnett to Andy Isles, V Barnett fell
on his neck in tli’ Bible manner, ’n’ sez he:
‘Didn’t I save yer soul alive?’
“ ‘Yeh did.’ sez Isles most fervent, ‘thanks
be t’ th’ Lord,’ he sez.
“ ‘ ’N’ ain’t yeh me gr-r-eatest proselyte,
Andrew Isles, ’n’ tli’ noblest livin’ example iv
tli’ benefits iv th’ teetotal manner iv livin’?’
“ ‘Faith ’n’ I’ll take me oath I am that,’
sez Andy Isles.
“‘That bein’, Barnett.’ he sez; ‘l’ve kim
up tli’ hills ! n’ over. Andrew, me brother, r’
ask yeh t’ dthrink wid me success t’ timp’-
rince,’ sez he.
“Well. 'lis a sad tale. Isles was easy per-
suade’, ’n’ they dthrank success t’ timpTiuce
til tli’ day was brimmuT over th’ hills.
“Barnett was conveyed surreptuous in a
covered car-rt, tight ess a dthrowned cat; ’n’
whin he got his legs agin Andy Isles”s fir-r-st
walk was th’ way iv th’ Rabbit.
“Th’ week end Willie Quine winked et me.
’N’, sez he: ‘Me conscience is clear,’ he sez.
‘Nothin’ did I do t’ bring it all about but
a thrifie iv tellypathic suggestion,’ sez he,
‘wid a whisper in Barnett’s ear ’n’ a bit push
along tli’ right road.’ ”
E. DYSON.
Lord Denman gave the Tote an indirect
advt. before leaving Australia. He told the
Perth pressmen that he remembered the
W.A. Cup meeting with gratitude, as being
one of the few where he picked up more
money than he dropped. He found Tote
divs. more satisfactory than bookmakers’
odds.
“N. or M.” forwards a relic:—
Bookseller Charles Walch, of Hobart, added
another year to his record (84) on May 8. He is
the oldest representative of the trade in Australasia,
having been in it for over 60 years. Physically the
old gentleman is somewhat frailer of late, but men-
tally he is still going strong, attends business regu-
larly, and is head of the firm in reality as well as
name.
llis reminiscences cover the old period of bush-
rangers, diggings, whaling and streets lit by sperm-
oil lamps. His lirst visit to Hobart was in John
Franklin’s time, when outlaws Cash, Kavanagh and
Jones were “pursuing their vocation,” as the suave
Cash would have put it. Before joining his brother
as junior partner in ’53 Walch had been to sea for
eight years, had tried hip luck, at a gold rush, and
had experience of the exasperating digger’s license,
which had to be renewed monthly, at a cost of 305.,
and bo shown by the owner i'n person, at any time,
to any of the police who happened along. Wrathful
and perspiring miners would be fetched up from
the depths of their shafts to answer to the call of
“Come up and show your license.” Defaulters were
chained to a log until the full number was rounded
up. Then they would be fastened together, as many
as 20 at a time, and marched off to be fined.
Passengers by boat to Port Phillip were mustered
on deck and called on to show magisterial certificates
that they were not escaped convicts; and the Mel-
bourne press—alive in those days to the danger of
admitting undesirables—advocated the stringing-up
of any captain found smuggling gaol-birds.
Bookselling at this time hinged mainly on being
able to get books to sell. Lots were made up in
England ready for auction. Booksellers and others
met the vessels at the wharf and bid up to fancy
prices. Walch tells of a paper-covered edition of
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” published at Is., bought by
him, after brisk bidding, at £2 10s. per dozen, and
sold to a ready public at ss. per copy. He hlso
has reminiscences of certain rubber soles with solu-
tion for gumming them on to worn-out boots —old!
stock, but a very profitable speculation, as the,
ITobart shoemakers had departed en masse for the
diggings.
In ’54 Charles Walch went to England to buy for
the firm, and remained there four years. The
Crimean War had disorganised the Australian mail!
service, every possible vessel being needed by the
British Government to transport supplies. Mails
were carried by sailing vessels as opportunity offered,
and the voyage took anything from 90 to 120 days.
IV hen the steam service was switched on again
freights were abnormally high, soaring up to £2O
a ton. Goods went by steam to Alexandria, were
packed by camel to Suez, steamed down to Port
Phillip and transhipped thence to Hobart.
“Welch’s Corner” dates back to ’46, when Major
Walch bought the business and the one-time White
Horse Tnn from Samuel Tegg, bookseller. The
present building went up in ’To on the same site.
'‘Bookware": The Autobiog. of Princess
Eulalie, which the King of Spain tried in
vain to suppress last year, has just been
printed in English. The “revelations” are
nil; but the book is deadly to Monarchy,
inasmuch as it shows how commonplace
and wearisome Royal circles are. When
Eulalie’s father, the Grand Duke, was dying,
her mother went away for a little, and
said: “When shall I return, dear?” Grand
Duke: “Never! I’ve longed for solitude all
my life, and want to die alone.” He did.
Winston Churchill tried to stop his mother
from publishing her “Recollections,” fear-
ing that they would be prejudicial to him,
with their references to Queen Victoria.
King Edward, King George and Queen
Mary; but they really cut no ice, because
she was only on bowing terms with Royalty.
On the other hand. Eulalie writes from the
inside, having been really intimate with the
whole Royal world of Europe. She was
disappointed with Queen Victoria, and
writes: “Her Majesty was so little that
when standing she appeared to be sitting."
Eulalie’s opinion of King Edward is high j
“he was a man of excellent common sense.”
She gives a good account, too, of the present
German Emperor, lie puts on the Giant’s
Robe, and fills it, she says, in public; but
in private he is most kindly and com-
panionable, the only great person in living
Royalty.
“Mavandava,” bitterly :
Nothing worse has been done than the alleged
“portraits,” for the Australian National Gallery to
lie, now on view at Commonwealth Parliament llouse.
There is only one of the lot which is either picture
or portrait—that of Henry Parkes, by Julian Ash-
ton. Griffith is the best of the others, which, as I
remarked before, are poisonous. Barton’s alleged
portrait is shocking, and that of Charles Cameron
Kingston is atrocious. Fisher's is rotten —a photo-
graph of a head on the summit of a suit of clothes.
Hopetoun's is deadly; and the person responsible for
the likenesses (snort of scorn here, please) of Geo.
It. and his appalling-looking missus deserves to be
publicly flogged. I am going out now to collect a
few fresh adjectives. As 1 cross the doorstep, I
pause momentarily to express the considered opinion
that it will pay Australia to send these atrocities to
the scrapheap, write off the cost, and have real por-
traits painted by men who know form and character
and can put them down on canvas. Damn 1
A portrait of Dr. F. E. Renner, the earli-
est medical practitioner in the Darling River
district, to which he went in 185.1, has been
presented to the Wentworth Hospital. Ren-
ner was a German by birth, and took his de-
gree at the University of Jena, where his
father was Professor of Anatomy. The
doctor settled lirst at Adelaide, and when he
went from there to Wentworth he travelled
on horseback. The Government granted 10
acres for a doctor’s residence and hospital;
but, when the rivers were up, the 10 acres
formed an island. There was much heavy
work for the doctor to do ; he was often away
from his home for weeks at a time, and on
three different occasions his horse, Gilbanks.
carried him 100 miles a day. In 1870.
when most of the Wentworth people were
flooded out. Dr. Renner and his family left,
the district: shortly afterwards he joined the
overland telegraph party bound for the Terri-
tory. After his return from that expedi-
tion he resided in Adelaide, and died there
in 1891. Mrs. Renner still lives, aged 81.


iO
w
£,
w
There’s a Life-Saving Power about
HEARNE'S
Bronchitis Cure
that raises this remedy right out
of the Ruck. Read this and reflect:
When my little girl was 3 years old, she contracted
“Measles upon which supervened Bronchitis, Pneu-
monia and Congestion of the Lungs. She was attended
“by a Doctor of high standing \vhose treatment however
“was not successful. On Saturday, 21st October, he
said that her life was in danger—that there was very
little hope for her. For eight days and nights she had
been prostrated with Cough, Pain and Fever, and
“was lying like a statue, Unconscious. At this
“stage, I was persuaded by a friend to obtain
4 Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, with its auxili-
ary medicine for the Fever and Congestion of
“the Lungs, as directed in the Catalogue
“of Medicines which accompanies each
“bottle of the Bronchitis Cure. I gave the
“Medicine as directed, and there was an
“improvement from the First Dose
“of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
“The improvement continued
“steadily after each dose of the
“Medicine. In a week she was
“perfectly free from the Pneu-
monia, Congestion, Cough, Pain
“and Fever, and was well, except
“that she was still weak. In a fort-
night she was quite Recovered,
“and is now in splendid health and
“Stronger than ever. It Abso-
lutely Snatched my Child
“from an Early Grave.”
DANIEL GARDINER,
Railway Hotel,
Meredith.
H
IT ral '
i
&
“V
\
«
jT
i
\
P
an
W\\v
\\v
4
/I
ft
W.C.H***!2r
1817
*£■
one h ir/
3
sff
■e*
UMPTIOH
Price 2/6 and 4/6
If not obtainable locally
send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria
m
i
■j
\WAHT atvft
Wo Hotter s\vo\x\d\ie \\.
i s€.v\V veo^es'i.
#
fsd
A progressive dietary adapted to the growing digestive powers.
Milk Food No. 1
From birth to 3 months.
Milk Food No. 2
Front 3 to 7 months.
Malted Food No. 3
From 7 months upwards.
Market Street, Sydney
There is no need for Australians to
US€
imported tooth pastes. The proprie-
tors of
EUDENTA
invite The Bulletin readers to test
without expense this popular
TOOTH PASTE
Xo dentifrice from abroad can compare
with, tile peppermint flavored (blue
box) Eudenta.
1/- per tube.
ROCKt. TOMPSITT 8 CO., Melbourne,
for a free sample, or. if Eudenta is un-
obtainable front your chemist or-stove,
send 1/3 in stamps for a large tube,
which will be sent post free:
aw
EUDENTA Preserves and
Whitens the 7 eeth.
THE LONE HAND” for Good Stories and Bright Articles, Price 6d.


Honey Jar, pure Silver-plated,
7/6
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6,
12/6, 15/6.
iii
Ohk Biscuit Barrel, pure Silver-
plated Mounts, 25 / -
Cake Basket, pure Silver-plated. Nickel Silver, richly
burnished and hand-pierced, 25/-
AUNDERS
SYDNEYS LEADING JOVELLER
Beautiful vSilverware!
Sugar ocuttle, pure s .
plated, hand-enrrn vim
?t /-
Teapot, pure Silver-plated, h„nd-engraved
and fluted, 30/-
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
*
Solid
Silvei
Candlestick
15/6.
A newly published Supplement
of which, is free for the asking.
Three-tier Cake or Fruit Stand, pure
Silver-plated Frame, handsome hand-
printed China Dishes, 63/-
Fruit Dish and Spoon, pure Silver-plated, Nickel-
Silver Base, Hand-painted, floral China Dish, 30/-
.Butter Dish, English Oak, real Porce-
lain China Lining, 25/•
Entrfie Dish, pure Silver-plated on Nickel
Silver* highly burnished, 40/-
Specimen Tube,
.'j silver-plated,
hand-burnished gilt
lined, 16/6.
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
Dinner Cruet, pure Sir
Frame, Crystal Glass
17/6.
■er-p luted
Bottles,
Jardiniere. p r Silver-plated,
richly hand-embossed, 25/-
Larger, 32/6; Full size, 40/-
Salad Bowl and Servers, pure Silver-plated, Cut
Crystal Glass, 17/6.
6 0 7-817 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION),
SYDNEY.
m
X
m
'<z
t
X
NESTLES
CONDENSED
m
ft
■w
y/h o<
°^TXr t NEST Brand
NESTLE i ANGLO-SWISS CONDENSED MILK (A
swcrzcoL»«ir>. London^aSvDNtX
>
-*?v
m.
8
I
<?*
1
ft
J
X-
//
i
w Qualify n
Creates Demand-
RICHEST
IN
CREAM


Missing Friends.
COOPER. —The Address is sought of Rela-
tives of DAVID COOPER, of Ivai Iwi,
Wanganui, N.Z.
TWO SISTERS used to reside at Lilydale,
near Melbourne.
BROTHERS were in Ballarat.
WILL THESE —or anyone knowing them
—please communicate with
The CHARLES HAINES Advt. Agency,
Wellington, New Zealand.
TO WILLIAM STEWART, formerly of
Mangonui, Auckland, New Zealand,
but last heard of in Queensland, and to all
persons claiming by, through or under him.
Pursuant to the directions of His Honor
Sir Robert Stout, K.C.M.G., Chief Justice
of New Zealand, under Section 25 of the
Public Trust Office Amendment Act, 1913,
you are hereby called upon to send in to the
undersigned, on or before the Ist day of
October, 1914, your claim to part of the
estate of CHRISTINA STEWART, late of
Mangonui, Auckland, widow, deceased, who
died on the 9th October, ISBO, intestate,
failing which such estate will be distributed
among the persons entitled thereto disregard-
ing your claims.
Dated at Wellington this 19th day of
March, 1914.
J. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
0 JOHN LESLIE STEWART, for-
merly of Wellington, New Zealand,
but last heard of at Sydney, New South
Wales, and to all persons claiming by,
through or under him.
Pursuant to the directions of His Honor
Sir Robert Stout, K.C.M.G., Chief Justice
of New Zealand, under Section 25 of the
Public Trust Office Amendment Act, 1913,
you are hereby called upon to send in to the
undersigned, on or before the Ist day of
October, 1914, your claim to the whole or
part of the estate of HESTER STEWART,
late of Kaikoura, New Zealand, widow, de-
ceased, who died on the 28th October, 1912,
intestate, failing which such estate will be
distributed among the persons entitled
thereto disregarding your claims.
Dated at Wellington this 19th day of
March, 1914.
J. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
A Federal Detective Agency.
J. CANTLON
(late Victorian Detective Police) under-
takes Commercial, Confidential, Next of Kin,
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enquiries,
Searches, Surveillance.
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
MODEL "IT
C o
THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE—
THE FAMOUS
Schebier Carburetter
The best Carburetter for ALL PETROL ENGINES
—either Land or Marine, Stationary or Moving.
The Schebler makes your engine develop
greater horse-power for a less consumption
of fuel.
The Schebler holds many world’s records.
Booklet and all information free.
Correspondence in vited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for Australia.
Freedom, Ease § Comfort
WELMAR
Pat. 1274
24/5/’ll.
Stocked by
Leading
Mercers and
Outfitters.
Manufactured by
Welch, Margetson 8 Co.
Pty. Ltd,
'Tt
The Moreton Bay fig is just now under
keen observation in Sydney, and the man who
planted so many in Hyde Park and the Do-
main is anathematised. The planter was
Charles Moore, for many years Director of
the Sydney Botanical Gardens, who had a
great affection for the umbrageous but littery
vegetable.
“N. or M.”: Anyhow there is one cleric in
Tasmania who thinks folks’ bodies should
have a chance as well as their souls. It
was Sunday morning in a little country
town. There had been a dance the night
before, and the hotel was full of people
“sleeping in,” when the bell of the church
opposite opened on them. “Stop that bell,”
called Father O’Brien, leaning out of the
window; “stop it! Don’t you know these
people have been up all night and want to
get some sleep?”
f
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
df
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets#
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
Price 1/- per Bottle. Of all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
None Genuine -without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
sdf
A BARGAIN IN BIOSCOPES
Why Not Make Money at Pictures?
Beard’s Latest
Improved Bioscope
Complete with Tank and Basket Limelight Jet, Retort Saturator and all
Accessories, ready for immediate showing, for
£4O CASH
(USUALLY V
£6O )
REMEMBER—This is a Complete Picture Plant
and can be used in a Hall or in the Home. We have only fpur of these
oucnts, and they are sure to go quickly. Inclusive with the purchasing
of these outfits we will teach you operating free, personally or by post.
JERDAN’S,
CINEMATOGRAPH
EXPERTS,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
w.
r
x
;)
T\\
STEVENS
GOOD, STRONG. CLOSE SHOOTERS.
Choke bored for nitro powder. Case hard-
ened frame.
For any standard make of ammunition.
12, 16 and 20 gauge—in standard lengths
and weights.
Stevens Single Barrel Shot GtIHS
Every gun rigidly tested. Order from your
Dealer.
For latest Stevens information —illustrated
catalogs, etc., communicate with
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms
& Tool Company,
G.P.O. Box 86, Adelaide, South Australia. [5
COO-EE!”
This is to call your attention to the fact that
Horlick’s Malted Milk is by far the most satis-
factory Food-Drink for those who wish for
healthv bodies and steady nerves. It puts fresh
life into you. It is easily made and
requires no cooking. It can be
dissolved in cold water.
TS
' Nf ANTS
C °°KINC OR milk f
maitcd Wlt * m
Vs>J6ucii!
HORLICK'S
MALTED MILK
Ask f OT Horlick sot the Soda Fountain.
;.pa
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN'S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
Scientific Instruments
For Every Trade, Industry and Profession.
Hydrometers, for testing every liquid.
Q
We make and repair them, and will
send you a catalogue, upon request,
of the most up-to-date Instruments for
Brewers, Wine & Spirit Merchants,
Refrigerators, Engineers, Surveyors,
Tanners, Sugar Boilers, Meat & Ice
Works, Butchers, Bakers, Vignerons,
Agriculturists Graziers, Dairy
Farmers, Makers of Aerated Water,
Cordials, Vinegars, Oils, Varnish, Soap
and Candles. Also for Schools, Col-
leges, the Medical Profession, and the
Household. Thermometers, Barome-
ters, Hydrometers, Rain, Gas, Water,
Vacuum and Pressure Gauges made,
repaired and readjusted. Lubricator
and Gauge Glasses, all sizes. Dairy
Factory Glassware and Testing Appar-
atus a Specialty.
WILSON, NAFIS&CO. Ltd., Wharf St., Brisbane, Q.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices in this list are those at which the
various books are published in London. The
prices in parentheses are those at which the
books are supplied by retail booksellers in Vic-
toria. New South Wales and South Australia.
Postage is extra, at the rate oj ‘ld. per pound
within the Australian Commonwealth.
THE WILDS OF MAORILAND.
By J. MACKINTOSH BELL, with
8 plates in color, many other illustra-
tions in black and white, and several
Maps. Demy Bvo.
***The author of this work was for six years
Director of New Zealand’s Geological Survey,
and during this time of almost constant travel
his work and the love of exploration led him
into many little visited corners of this wonder-
ful country. The volume concludes with a
description of the geography and climate of
New Zealand.
THE NATIVE TRIBES OF THE
NORTHERN TERRITORY OF
AUSTRALIA. By W. BALDWIN
SPENCER, C.M.G.. F.R.S., Professor
of Biology, University of Melbourne.
With 8 plates in color and numerous
other illustrations. Bvo. 21s. net
(255.). [Shortly.]
THE STATESMAN’S YEAR BOOK*
Statistical and Historical Annual of
the States of the World for the Year
1914. Edited by J. SCOTT KELTIE,
LL.D. With maps. Crown Bvo.
10s. 6d. net (12s. 6d.).
FROM FAR LANDS. POEMS OB’
NORTH AND SOUTH. By “GEII-
VAIS GAGE” (Prof. J. Laurence
Rentoul, of the University of Mel-
bourne). Crown Bvo. ss.
FEEDING AND CARE OB’ BABY.
By F. TRUBY KING, M. 8., B. Sc.
(Public Health). Edin. Bvo. Paper
Cover, Is.; Cloth Cover, 2s. net
(2s. 6d.).
Piutish Medical Journal: —“A book which,
though it deals with a somewhat hackneyed
subject, treats it with so much freshness that
it will, we do not doubt, make a strong appeal
to the public.”
THE
DOMINIONS EDITION
OF
WORKS OF
RUDYARD KIPLING
IN
PROSE AND VERSE.
Decorated Blue Cloth.
Price 3/6 per volumo
PLAIN TALES FROM
THE HILLS.
THE LIGHT THAT
FAILED.
LIFE’S HANDICAP
MANY INVENTIONS
SOLDIERS THREE, etc.
WEE WILLIE WINKIE,
etc.
THE DAY’S WORK
STALKY & CO.
FROM SEA TO
SEA,
2 vols.
Ready
KIM
TRAFFICS
COVERIES
AND
July
ACTIONS AND RE-
ACTIONS
REWARDS & FAIRIES
August
SONGS FROM BOOKS
THE NAULAHKA. By R.
KIPLING and W. BAL-
ESTIER
September
***The Poetical Works in four volumes, uniform
with the above, will be issued by Messrs.
Methuen_& «i Co ;i _Ltd i _____^_^_ > __ ii __ - _ ii— _
MACMILLAN’S EMPIRE LIBRARY
Paper Covers, 2/6; Cloth, 3/6 per
Volume.
631 and 632.
Scott’s Last Expedition.
Being the Journals of Captain R. F.
SCOTT, C.V.0., R.N.,
Together with the Reports of the other
Journeys and the Scientific Work
undertaken during the Expedition.
Edited by EEONARD HUXLEY,
with the assistance of the surviving
Members of the Expedition. With a
Preface by Sir CLEMENTS R.
MARKHAM, K.C.8., F.R.S. In 2
vols. With Illustrations and Maps.
H. G. WELLS’ New Story.
637. THE WORLD SET FREE. A
Story of Mankind.
***ln The World Set Free Mr. Wells has
taken a holiday from the novel writing to
which he has recently devoted himself. It is
a return to his earlier method, so far as anyone
who has so grown and changed can be thought
of as returning to an early method. It is a
wonder-story. It is no less than an imaginary
history, a simplified, half-symbolical history of
the world for the next 70 or 80 years; . it pre-
sents the great conflict between the ancient tra-
ditions of law and property and nationality,
and the gigantic and altogether revolutionary
possibilities of science that now grow to a head.
639. WAITING. By GERALD O’DONO-
VAN, author of “Father Ralph.”
638. A LAD OF KENT. By HER-
BERT HARRISON.
A Complete Catalogue of Macmillan’s Empire
Library will be sent on application.
MACMILLAN SCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


INDIGESTION.
HILLGROVE LADY SUFFERED FOR
YEARS. DR. MORSE’S INDIAN
ROOT PILLS BROUGHT RELIEF.
“I was a sufferer for years with indiges-
tion,” writes Mrs. Harriett Ilaydon, of
Brackin Street, Hillgrove, N.S.W.. “and
having tried almost everything people re-
commended for relief I ultimately came by
persuasion to try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. I can assuredly state they have
proved invaluable in my case for indigesr
tion, and they are now our family medicine.
You may use this testimony for publication.’’
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a safe
and reliable remedy for stomachic com-
plaints. They aid in the digestion and assi-
milation of food, and in a mild and gentle
manner regulate thf system, restoring the
weak .and dyspeptic to health and strength.
They ’'give you clean bowels, a healthy
stomach, a lively liver, active kidneys, and
blood -that is-r-ich -and red-*--
To thoroughly enjoy the week-end trip or to kill
the monotony of a voyage or a railway journey it
is only necessary to arm one’s self with a copy of
“A Journalist and Two Bears,” the book of' the
year. This collection of tales and verse from the
pen of James Edmond has the infinite variety that
appeals to all men, and makes the world a much
better place to travel or week-end in. If your book-
seller has not got it send 13 penny stamps to the
publishers, The Platypus Press, 117 Bathurst Street,
Sydney, and the book will be sent by return post.*
810-SHOWMEN!
. "THERE’S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE." Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
HORSESHOE
SALMON
is even better than fresh fish
BECAUSE
It is CooKed in Sealed Tins—there-
fore none of the goodness can escape.
DELICIOUSLY FRESH.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Philip Snowden, the Socialist M.P.
of the Cold Country, is to visit Maori-
land this year to convince the residents that
strong drink is anathema and seven vipers,
and that Prohibition is the only way to
avoid national degeneracy. Considering
that Snowden’s countrymen eat malt liquor
to the tune of about 28 gallons per throat
, per annum, whereas Maorilanders are mere
11-gallon tyros, the foreigner might well
stay at home and put his case locally before
: butting in where there already are enough
I sly-grog barrackers.
“Mil” : I understand the Government has
sold the Northern Territory “survey and
exploring” steamer Stuart for about £3OOO,
after having purchased it a few months ago
for something nearer £20,000 than £15,000.
She was such , a coal eater that when she
went to Thursday Island for a coal cargo she
burnt nearly all she could carry on the re-
turn voyage. She left Djarwin to do some
Papuan survey work, and when either fin-
ished with or proved unfit for the job she
was laid up at Townsville and grew sea-
weed on her hull for a long time while the
master and engineer who were left aboard
clamored against the red tape that kept
them waiting for their wages. It’s all part
of the rotten N.T. administration, with its
ghastly jokes of experimental farms, experi-
mental settlers (up to their eyes in debt to
the Chows), and experimental work (done
by forced aboriginal labor). Meantime the
gallant settlers develop their muscles pulling
corks out of square bottles. No real pro-
gress is being made —and never will be made
until the Territory has a different sort of
Administration. . .
WILLING TO WAGER.
WASHINGTON, Tuesday.—Mr. Theodore Roosevelt,
declaring all the map-makers of the world wrong,
gave an address before the National Geographical
Society. In this he described his discovery of a new
river, 1000 miles long, in Brazil.
A USTRALIA: "Bet you can't find a river here,
Teddy? ”
Two black strangers cannot make one
White Australian. —General Tan Hamilton's
tip to the Commonwealth.
Every few days a representative of the
old Freetrade party gets out of the family
vault to explain to the Interstate Commis-
sion that Australia would be a great country
if it made nothing and did nothing and
imported everything. It was a matter of
pianos last week, and the contention about
them was that if the duty was utterly abol-
ished the “natural charges”—that is, freight,
etc. —would counterbalance the difference
between the low wages of Germany and the
high wages of Australia. So, according to
the gentleman from the Freetrade vault, with-
out any duty at all the local manufacturer
would be on an equal footing with the Ger-
man manufacturer. Of course the small
circumstance that the German manufacturer
has built up his industry and trained his
workmen and established big factories under
Protection isn’t of any consequence. And
the fact that Protection has assured for him
a vast market in his own country, so that
he can afford to run an enormous plant, and
knock out any foreign infant factory with
his surplus output, isn’t of any consequence
either.
NO TIME FOR AMATEURS.
The scheme of inviting public entertainers to visit
the gaols was maired by the objections of the com-
pulsorily entertained that the efforts of the amateur
vocalists were really not in their sentence. Conse-
quently the department is careful to secure only the
best artists for its patients. —Victorian gaol official.
“Jones! Who's Jones? What I says, Bill, is
we can't afford to spoil our ear a-listenin’
to amatoors.”
“The schwindle’s schmall, but it’s shafe,”
says Melter Moss, in “The Ticket of Leave
Man.” Lord Cross, who at the age of 90
lately died and left £91,617, has been draw-
ing a British pension, as an ex-Cabinet Min-
ister, of £2OOO a year for 21 years, on his
annual affidavit that he was impecunious.
Others have abandoned such pensions
when Fortune smiled; but Cross let it be
understood that he hardly had a coat to his
back. When the truth came out Lloyd-
George was appealed to with a request that
he would dock the Cross estate of £40,000;
but he said he couldn’t do it, much as he
would like to.
The recent sale of a Collins-street (Melb.)
property was admittedly due to the absentee
tax. For more than 70 long years the land
had remained in the possession of a certain
Dismorr family, the original Dismorr hav-
ing bought it for a song. The beneficiaries
live in England, and their habit of raising
rents periodically had become very irksome
to their tenants. Still, they resisted all en-
treaties to sell until the absentee tax set
them thinking. They thought this wicked
charge on foreign owners of Australian soil
might be raised too, and so at last they
consented to sell for £20,000 the thin slice
of freehold x 130 ft.) which cost Dis-
morr a pound or two when Melbourne was
in the making. A case of that sort could be
properly met by a graduated absentee tax —
for ev'ery five years of absence beyond a cer-
tain amount, say another 5 per cent, of
taxation.
They take their politics seriously in the
far-west of South Australia. One recent Fri-
day a Federal election candidate was due to
speak at the little township of Colton at
7.30 p.m., “Social” to follow. He didn’t
arrive, but the social was held, anyway. At
midnight he turned up, explaining that his
motor-car had gone wrong. So they had
supper over again, then at 1 a.m. he got busy,
and for an hour and a half addressed a
sleepy but willing audience of over a hun-
dred.
“Y.Z.” wants the Fat man to be logical:—-
I find all classes in Australia united in support of
the Defence system, although one very large section
spends much time in truculent abuse of all the vari-
ous forms of State industry. If the State starts
a brick mill, or a coal mine, these portly citizens grow
purple with indignation and champ their jaws till
the air is' full of foam. ‘ How it is my turn, and
I invite public attention to my repudiation of the
Australian army and the Australian navy as a shame-
ful interference with Private Enterprise. Here is
the State spending vast sums on soldiers, and sailors,
and rifles, and great guns to protect life and pro-
perty which Private Enterprise, if it were really
enterprising, might protect off its own bat. The in-
dignant rich, who are enraged when the State starts
a coal mine with the object of protecting the people,
are perfectly still and composed when the State
starts an army, whereas they should get out on the
housetops and shriek, “Socialism ! Socialism! Social-
ism ! ” It comes to this in all simplicity: When the
State spends enormous sums on unproductive works
to defend its people from enemies abroad, it is
righteous. But it is wholly infamous and guilty of
the heinous sin of interfering with Private Enter-
prise when it starts reproductive works to defend us
from our enemies at home.
From a man who has access to the figures :
I am glad to be able to assure The Bulletin that
the Melb. and Metrop. Board of Works doesn't pass
by Australian manufactures to the extent assumed in
a recent par. The total value of goods contracted for
in 1913 was £199,461, of which no less than
£188,528 was for Australian products. Thus, nearly
95 per cent, was Australian ; and if imported cement
(used only because the Board had consumed all the
local cement available'', ironmongery and oils are
excluded, the proportion is 98.8 per cent., which is
surely something to be very cheerful about.
A nice problem has been raised as to the
liability of cheques drawn on the N.S.W.
branches of the Commonwealth Bank to
carry a penn’orth of the King’s image under
the Holman Government’s Stamp Duty Act.
Denison Miller, the Bank’s Governor, having
protested to the Federal Attorney-General,
Iceberg Irvine took up the attitude that the
institution, having the protection of a
Special Act, wasn’t deserving of the Aus-
tralian Government’s assistance, and he left
the Governor to get out of the business as
best he could. The law on the matter may
be doubtful, but the facts seem against the
Bank. If its customers don’t have to stamp
their cheques, the money thus saved goes
into its customers’ pockets, and the Bank is
only indirectly benefited. Logically, if exemp-
tion is granted, the Post Office should allow
the N.S.W. State Savings Bank’s customers
to post their letter's to the Bank unstamped.
The principle seeins the same.
From the Green Tape Department: —
The Commonwealth service will welcome the Gov-
ernment that will succeed Joseph Surface Cook, and
some branches are hungry for it. Willie Kelly at
the Home Affairs, although he is sometimes mistaken
for the office boy, had the easiest job, because he
succeeded O’Malley. On the other hand, though
Millen is one of the three good men in the Ministry,
he suffers because he had to follow Pearce —“the
best Minister we ever had,” says the Navy. Patrick
McMahon Glynn is lamentable as Minister for External
Affairs. With the mind of a librarian, he is an
utter failure when in charge of great interests. Irving
is anti-Australian, and Joseph Cook is just big
enough for a provincial Parliament. John Forrest
and Agar Wynne have made good from mere know-
ledge of Australia, general manliness and bigness.
The most important mistake 1 the anti-Labor party
ever made was in the defeat of Bigjohn for the
leadership by one vote. That one vote made Joseph
Surface Cook Prime Minister, and- was worth about
100,000 votes, for Andrew Fisher.
Judging by the S. M. Herald’s report on
the subject, Mildura, the Vic, irrigation
colony on the Murray, is trembling because
unusually droughty conditions are feared on
the Murray when Yanco gets a real move
on, and uses' all the 'Murrumbidgee water
where it will do most gpod. Mildura’s awk-
ward position is that its rival gets in first
along one of its .sources of supply. As the
N.S.W. State Frighter believes, on general
principles, in the right of each State to
damage the other at will, always providing
that N. S. Wales gets the best of the deal,
the S. M. Herald should dance bn her gamp
with joy and wax eloquent with cross head-
ings. But instead she takes the matter
glumly. Probably if Yanco lands were be-
ing parted with as freehold, to the exceeding
joy and profit of the speculator and the
corresponding detriment of the State and
the legitimate settler, she would feel better
about it.
BETWEEN THE POLITICIAN AND
THE PAWNBROKER.
Australian politicians are suffering from a bad
attack of the borrowing disease. —English press.
COHENSTEIN : “ Veil, really, my de-ar poy, I
haf not yet made up my mindt vhether
you are a knave or chust a fool."
YOUNG AUSTRALIA: "Guess I dunno either ,
uncle. Seems ter me, though, I'm between
the two ."
N.S.W. Premier Holman is stated to have
recently declared that he can knock out the
Meat Trust in one act by simply refusing
to carry the Trust’s stock over the State
railways. Can he? One of the first things
to do is to locate the Trust. For instance,
the Trust is understood to have secured
from many pastoralists options over _ the
unborn stock for years to come; but it is
certain those options are not branded “The
Meat Trust.” They are held in the names
of affable, harmless-looking gentlemen pf
respectable middle age. Also, the .stock will
not belong to the Trust till the Trust has
taken delivery. Till then it will belong to a
lot of farmers who have votes —the votes
Willie Holman wants and is. going to try to
catch by starting a factory to supply cheap
machinery.
Mrs. Hughes, president of the Women’s
Fashionable League, of Victoria, speaking at
a pleasant, if profitless, Empire Day after-
noon, announced: —
Socialism is not God-sent. The movement is
entirely materialistic, and on that account women
must fight it.
Presumably, then, the League supports
“Liberalism” because of its spiritual quali-
ties, and favors Jokook because it recognises
in him a Chosen Instrument.
JUST OUT FOR ANOTHER LARK.
With the object of embarrassing the Government
business, Mr. Catts, with Mr. Fisher’s approval, sprang
a surprise amendment, dealing with tariff reform, on
Mr. Cook.— Recent Federal item.
THE BOSS (hopefully): “What! Changed
your mind and want to do some useful
work! ”
THE HAND (casually): “ Oh , no! We’re
havin' a pick at Joe , an’ I just borrowed
the axe a minute to torment him! ”
N.S.W. Minister for Agriculture Ash-
ford, himself a farmer, is on his way to
Perth to see how Premier Scaddan runs his
State plough factory. If Ashford decides
there are no flies on the system, the N.S.W.
State agricultural machinery factory is
assured. If there are beetles visible, arrange-
ments may be made to start the N.S.W. fac-
tory under improved conditions. One thing
is certain: the Holman Government wants
the cocky vote, and will go on with the fac-
tory if there seems the smallest chance of
the cocky being “grateful” in the proper
manner.
The unpatriotic Australian who knows
that the foreigner must be able to do it better
lias been lately learning a few things that are
not calculated to settle his stomach. “Do you
put other people’s names on pianos?” the
Interstate Commission asked the biggest man
in the music business in Australia. “Well,”
said he, “when we have rotten old second-
hand pianos for sale we often put a fancy
name on them, such as Wilmer, which is
registered by our company.” Then a hat-
man explained that the experienced shop-
assistant could find out in about 18 seconds
whether his customer was a good Australian
or not:, if he was a good Australian he got
a hat for 10s.; if he insisted on a foreign
make he got the same hat and paid half-a-
crown more for it. But perhaps the most
Interesting story was told by a jam-manu-
facturer, who says that a lot of the mqst
expensive “English” jam sold at high prices
in Australia is made in his factory, exported
unsweetened to Europe, and there doctored
and put in glasses and sent out for sale at
20 to 50 per cent, more than, the fool Aus-
tralian could have got it for, fresh and more
wholesome, a year previously.
General Hamilton seems to hav;e pre-
served a murky and, disquieting silence on
the subject of -Australia’s Army Medical ser-
vice. In the April Blackwood there is a
story by a Woman doctor which is instruc-
tive in' this connection. She was sent to
Kirk Kilisse during the Balkan trouble, and
this is what she found: —
Our “hospital of 50 beds” contained 90 patients.
There were out-patients also coming every day to
be dressed.... Poor things! The state they were in
when they arrived! They had had no chance of
a bath for months, no good wash for weeks, and for
days they had travelled in ox-carts and trains with
the mud and debris of the battlefield still upon
them ; a hasty field dressing had been put upon their
wounds before they started upon their journey—
and almost invariably they reached our door at
nine o’clock at night.
How would the shattered Australian fare if
war came to him to-morrow? There is no
supply of stretchers that could be at all
adequate for a single battalion in each State.
There are not a dozen ambulance waggons,
and no one in Australia has ever thought
of providing hospital trains such as are to
be found on the Austrian railways. Whose
duty is it to .attend to these urgent matters,
and why is. he not hanged?
WHICH HOUR?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Melbourne, Friday.—The stonewall on the No-
Preference Bill has been maintained by the Opposition
since mid-day on Thursday. The House sat all
night.... Members half-dozed all day,. and• if .it had
not been for the industry of the Opposition in keeping
a member on the watch to call for a quorum, there
would not have been a single legislator in the
Chamber.— Daily paper.
The House is sodden with talk
And the drear night-hours go by,
While the ghosts of problems walk
Through the politicians’ sty.
A continent sits and waits
While Jones with the clock disputes.
The enemy seeks the gates
While Smith sleeps sound in his boots.
The clock has a white clown’s face,
And the hours it shows are twelve.
Which hour will bring us disgrace?
(Hear them rage, distort and shelve!)
Will the last stand be at Three
On a sundered Northern shore,
And the Book of Destiny
Show a yellow page at Four?
When the lonely legions fall
And the transports spew their herds,
’Twill be over that stonewall
And Jones’s sea of words....
The clock has a white clown’s face,
And before it strikes it groans.
Which hour will bring us disgrace?
Which hour of transient Jones?
N.S.W.
TIME-PAYMENT UNDERTAKER.


Profit by the experience of others
and Deal Direct with “Paling’s.”
BY choosing your piano or any other musical instrument from
PALING'S you save yourself endless worry in the future,
because every instrument we sell has been carefully selected
for its Durability and Brilliancy of Tone*
®|| By paying cash and purchasing in large quantities we obtain
large concessions from the manufacturers* This enables us to
give such extraordinary volue* We are sole agents for: —
fsd
fsd
fs
f
sf
RONISCH, LIPP and VICTOR PIANOS
Ronisch or Lipp-Claviola Player-Pianos.
r
rtf';
»«je"«S*^i!;V-. I >:s’ '• ’•'■'a*?
IF is our policy to demand THE BEST VALUE, and in turn
we make it a rule to give our customers in every part of
Australia THE BEST VALUE for THEIR outlay*
W. H. PALING & CO. LTD
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
And at Newcastle, Lismore, Brisbane, Toowoomba.
H Catalogues of Pianos or Combination Player-Pianos, also ESTEY ORGANS,
are Post Free to any address* Send for one to-day*
U PLEASE MENTION which instrument you are interested in.
PALING’S EASY TERMS WILL HELP YOU.
*fr
s
wpZ
s*
HAT'S what you pay for a Leviathan
Mail Order Special, Made-to-Measure
Suit —52/6, if it's exactly as you want
it; no price at all if it fails to please.
T
The fabric is guaranteed, the fit too,
every detail of material and making. All
must satisfy the wearer, or we undertake to
return, without question, or quibble every
penny of the purchase money.
You take no risk when you
order a
Leviathan
Suit to c 9 /£
Order at v LfV
(MAIL ORDER SPECIAL.)
Other Prices for Suits to Order
are 635., 705., 845., 90s. and 105 s.
Send the Coupon for patterns.
THE LEVIATHAN, corner Swanston and Bourke
Streets, Melbourne.
Please send me patterns of your new Winter Suit-
ings at 635. This request incurs no obligation.
Name
Address
B’n 4/6/’l4.
Ladies’ Costumes to Order, £5/5-/, £7/7/-, £lO/10|-
Patterns Post Free on Request.
WE PAY FREIGHT.
Write for Our New Catalogue. Post Free on Request.
bhi mm
iim
The
EVIATMAN
mmm
as.
Corner Swans ton & Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
The ERNEMANN IMPERATOR
PROJECTOR
w
is the machine that can be relied upon.
It is used in the Leading Shows throughout
the world.
Because
It is the one machine that will give an Abso=
lutely Steady, Brilliant and Flickerless
Picture at all speeds, combined with
Reliability and Silence.
“It as Still the Best.’
Full Particulars, Prices, etc., from the Sole Australasian Agents-
-386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Auckland & Wellington, N.Z.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agrents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Birch * carr o l l
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we'have the Booking .'Control:.' ■-
Representatives iii Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
|Y| EIBOI'RNE
GLACIARIUM,
ICIS-SKA T I N G.
AFTERNOONS AT 3.
EVENINGS AT 7.45.
The New “Scott’s”
Hotel
is now almost completed, and when
opened early in July will be
The Finest Hotel In
Australia.
The position is the most central and
convenient in Melbourne, and the
accommodation and cuisine perfect.
Private attendance, ’phones and hot
and cold water service in every room.
ColliQS Street,
MELBOURNE.
Artist Low’s Presbyterian, Israelite, etc.,
visages (B. 28/5/’l4) well illustrate what
mav befall those who seek inspiration from
doleful anticipations instead of from the
genial spirit (occasionally consulted) of
King George IY. topnotch whisky.* j
(let the Pen that
regulates its ink
flow-Fast or Slow
The Onoto. A simple
turn of the “ head ”
regulates the flow
of ink exactly as you
want it. Another
“ turn ” renders the
Onoto a sealed tube
in your pocket,
so that it cannot
possibly leak.
Onoto
Pen
Self-Filling - *
Safetj Fount**
Price 12/- and upwards of all Stationers,
Jewellers, and Stores. Booklet about
the Onoto Pen free on application to
Thomas de la Rue & Co., Ltd.,
104 Bunhill Row, London, E C., or the
Australasian Representatives, Norman
Baker and Longhurst, 50 York Street,
Sydney.
Ask for ONOTO INK
—Best for all pens.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
An Australian invention that threatens to
make good recently emerged with considerable sue-'
cess from a severe test. J. E. Bailey, of Kew (Vic.),
being enamored of flying, has built himself a plane
and is teaching himself to fly. Naturally he has had
mishaps, and they have been so many that at last he
set his wits to work on a device for checking the
speed of a falling plane. The other day he went up
at Bacchus Marsh, and when about 3000 ft. above
anything his engine stopped. He wasted a few
: seconds in trying to start it again ; then more seconds
in trying to volplane, which his lack of experience
prevented (him doing. Finally he tried his ingenious
device. It acted well, but was applied too late to
hold the machine completely. Still it let the craft
down so gently that it wasn’t entirely smashed up,
and Bailey himself escaped with a dislocated wrist
and a few cuts about the head.
A small syndicate is about to make a
determined effort to bring sometime champion Dick
Arnst once more into the sculling limelight. One of the
stipulations of the syndicate is that Richard shall abide
near the Parramatta River and train every day for
six months, when the syndicate will decide if he has
“come back” sufficiently to challenge the holder of
, the title, whether that wight’s name be Paddon or
Barry. It will mean a lot*of hard work for Arnst,
but he is lucky to haVe such, substantial friends be-
hind him. It will be remembered that it was a
similar philanthropic syndicate that gave him the
| opportunity to enter the sculling world and financed
him till he was crowned king.
Maoriland sculler “Paddy” Hannan did
i not fondle the sculling championship of his ricketty
; Dominion long without trouble. It is William
1 Webb, of Wanganui, who proposes to disturb his
, rest, and the proposal is arousing considerable ex-
citement in Massey’s Land.
In the Sydney Lacrosse competition the
hitherto undefeated team from Mosman, which had
survived four gruelling rounds, went down smash
before the Sydney XII by seven goals to three. Jhe
impenetrable defence of the Mosman goal-keeper had
been the strength of the team in the rounds that
1 were past, but on this occasion that paladin failed.
: University had a picnic at the expense of Manly,
and won easily with eight goals to one. Petersham
defeated St. George; and by five goals to ■’ two, hut
the difference in the scores does not indicate the
difference in the 'day. As a matter of fact Peter-
sham had its hardest game of the season. It
was the excellent work of the goal-keeper that won
the game; the forwards made a somewhat futile
showing. But the outstanding feature of the day
was the overthrow of Eastern Suburbs by Balmain,
by seven goals to four. Eastern Suburbs, be it
remembered, is the premier team, but on the show-
ing so far this season has but little chance of
continuing so. In the competition Mosman, Sydney
and Petersham are together in the forefront, with
eight points each. Balmain and Eastern Suburbs
form the second line with six each; and University
has four. Below that the sign of the waterfowl
• flies over Manly and St. George.
* * * *
Saturday’s baseball in Sydney did not
J alter; the position of the leading clubs in the district
\ competition, but it widened the gap between the
■i Haves and the Have Nots. After five matches
* Petersham, Leichhardt and Waverley are together in
:j the Van with four wins each; University has obliter-
ated three opponents, ar.d Burwood and Paddington
f r two j each, while Lane Cove and Mosman-North
S Sydney (last year’s premier team) have been torn
to pieces in all "five disturbances. *
League Rugby is getting so risky in
Sydnev that the selectors asked P. McCue, the best
State forward, to stand out of club football on
Saturday so that there would be no doubt about his
ability to plav against the Englishmen this week-end.
And the selectors were wise, as Saturday produced
three smashed collar-bones, four other unpleasant
disasters, and a crop of minor injuries. Surely the
League has not mislaid its hobnail boots?
* * * *
N.S.W. Rugby League fell on the tail of a
much-practised fraud recently, when holders were
caught passing season tickets back through a hole
in the fence at Sydney Cricket Ground for the
benefit of welshers outside. The League was swift
to act. It grabbed and confiscated the tickets, and
announced itself ready to put up a legal argument
if the action was challenged. ’
So far N.S.W. Rugby League has been
piling up gold; Two weeks running saw the six-
penny gates yield a mass of metal worth £lOOO.
And now the lords of the League declare thatt when
the English team begins to coruscate the gate pro-
ceeds will soar to £2OOO easily, as the nrice of
admission will rise to a shilling. Couldn’t the
League boost up its popularity by keeping the price
at sixpence? *
League Rugby is booming in Sydney, no
less than 25,000 people being present at the two
big matches on Saturday. Although the Eastern
Suburbs struggle with North Sydney at the Cricket
Ground was the star event, and drew the bigger mob,
to writer’s mind more interest attached to the
battle between South Sydney and Newtown at the
Agricultural Ground, because the previous Saturday
the two high contesting parties had met their first
reverses this season. And it was written that New-
town should bear the woe. It was a tremendous
struggle, and at half-time Newtown led by seven
points to three. Then South laboriously drew level
with a long-sustained effort that spoke of splendid
training. After that, the pendulum swung errati-
cally, and when South was leading by 11 to nine,
right on time, through the fast falling gloom came
a last solitary chance to Newtown to score and
make a drawn game—and it failed. The rout of
North Sydney by Eastern Suburbs was. decisive, the
premier club being superior in attack and defence,
and winnihg by 17 to seven. Balmain, which the
previous week had given Newtown its first defeat
this season, continued on its triumphant course, and
after a stand-up, ding-dong scrap with Glebe, a
very formidable team, scrambled out on top with
15 points to 13. Glebe played a desperate game in
the second half, and pulled up from eight to 13 while
Balmain crawled up from 13 to 15. It was the cor-
roding ringer of time that ate Glebe’s chance away.
The Western Suburbs-Annandale affair was a run-
away victory for the Western team, which bolted and
galloped home with the bit in its teeth —31 points
to eight. South Sydney now leads the competition
with eight points. North Sydney, Eastern Suburbs,
Glebe and Newtown have each six points, Bal-
main has five, Western Suburbs two, and Annandale
one. #
In the Union division, University, the
only unbeaten team, barring South Sydney, came to
utter smash at the boots of St. George, a compara-
tively weak crowd, who stamped it flat to the extent
of 16 points to three—a most deplorable hiding
under U iiion rules. At half-time the Saints had
established a lead of six to nil, and' improved on it
vastly in the second half. The Uni. felt the loss of
its reps, in the inter-State team in Brisbane. The
match of the day was the fast and excellently sus-
tained tussle between South Sydney and Newtown,
out of which the former scrambled in an exhausted
state with 20 points to Newtown’s 19. At half-
time the victorious team was ahead with 11 to eight,
and during the second spell the speed was magnifi-
cent. Glebe had a hard tussle with Randwick, but
did the trick with nine points to three. Manly just
managed to squelch North Sydney by 18 points to
16, and Eastern Suburbs galloped over Balmain by
30 to three. The rout of University allowed Glebe
and South Svdney to draw level in the competi-
tion with eight points all. South Sydney’s trouble
is that, although unbeaten, it has participated in
two drawn games, and for scoring purposes two
draws equal one defeat. Eastern Suburbs and St.
George have seven points; and Western Suburbs has
five; Randwick, Newtown and Manly, four each;
North Sydney three, and Balmain two.
Kid Lewis, the sad-eyed jumping-jack, gets
the best of his disagreetnent with Herb McCoy
at Sydney Stadium.
“Adelaide” : The Bulletin doesn’t quite
do justice (28/5/’l4) -to either the English Rugby
team or the scratch 13 of has-beens, might-bes, and
(apparently) never-wases that pluckily stood up to
them in Adelaide. A beating of 101 points to nil
is bad enough, but 16 goals 23 tries (as stated)
would be unspeakable, and, on the other hand, would
suggest that the Englishmen can’t kick straight;
whereas they crossed the line 23 times in all, and
converted 16 of the tries. The dailies called it
16—23, and evidently it was so wired all over Aus-
tralia. Adelaide pressmen, it must be remembered,
have mostly never seen a game of Rugby. The cables
have taught something about it of late years, and a
try is no longer spoken of as an “attempt,” but the
subtlety of converted tries takes a bit of following.
What should a sporting reporter know about Con-
version, anyway?
* ,v * * *
Light showers and threatening storms had
little effect on Melbourne hoofball crowds on Satur-
day, some 25,000 foregathering on the East Mel-
bourne ground to watch Essendon demolish South, or
vice versa. Up to half-time the ’Don’s looked like
doing it, South’s lamentable kicking gaining it
only 16 points from 11 shots, whereas the Red-and-
Blacks acquired' 30 from 10 shots. But after that
the Southerners, playing with fair system and greater
speed, reduced the deficit to two points by lemon-
time —30 to ’Don’s 32. The last quarter was a
strenuous scuffle, too keen to permit of much scor-
ing ; but while the ’Don’s added nine points, South
put on 13 and ran out winners by a couple only—
-43 to Essendon’s 41. Collingwood was lost out on
the greasy, bleak St. Kilda ground, and the same 18
that a few Saturdays ago ran ’Roy to two points
found itself out-played and out-manoeuvred —the latter
especially. Probably ’Wood wanted to win, but
there was no indication of violent enthusiasm on the
part of some of the players. The ultimate score—-
Saints 82, ’Wood 44—was accepted as an insult
that must be wiped out. Carlton pulverised Mel-
bourne by 97 points to 39, and Richmond handed
the Students another “dirty doing”—llo points to
36. ’Roy went down to Geelong and strove so dis-
jointedly and lackadaisically that at half-time it
boasted three whole points to Geelong’s 15 ; but after
the interval the Maroons found their legs and fin-
ished with 40 .points to the Sleepy Hollowmen’s 32.
* *
The mightiest Ass. scrimmage was on the
wintry Williamstown ground, where the'locals attended
to the requirements of North. They- weren’t quite up
to all demands, but they did their best, and were
but five points in default when the bell rang —
North, 62 ; ’Town, 57. P’ran played so anaemically
against Essendon that at lemon-time they were four
goals a-rear; then the disgusted barrackers pro-
mised them all manner of insults as well as worse
things, and they bogged in so hard that they added
three goals to ’Don’s none, and were prancing round
the enemy’s posts when the bell rang. ’Don was
lucky to "win—63 points to P’ran’s 57. Brighton
visited Port, and began to hear the joy-bells when
the first quarter yielded them 21 points to Port’s
one; but the rest of the game belonged to the latter,
who ended with 74 to Brighton’s 44. Brunswick
caught Hawthorn in the act of recovering from its
walloping of ’Town, and strewed it in the mud, with
a tale of 116 points to 60. Top-notchers ’Scray gal-
loped over bottom-notchers ’Cote so recklessly that at
half-time they owned 44 points while ’Cote hadn’t
once troubled the scorer. Latter ultimately got 20
points on the board against ’Scray’s 78.
“Dick” Condon and “Billy” Strickland,
iwo ex-Collingwood football champions, are going
to coach the 18 that are to represent the Ma State
in the Sydney Patriotic Carnival. Condon did 15
years solid work for the Victorian team, and there
is no man who knows the tricks better than the ex-
skipper of the “Magpies.” With the material he
has to work on he says he is quite satisfied.
* * * *
The Totalisator bobbed up with credit at
Brisbane the other day when Count Grafton’s second
place in the Albion Cup paid a dividend of £2l 14s.
The Count’s price with Judas O’l’herson was alleged
to be 33 to one. Perhaps it was, but it is a cer-
tainty that the request for five pounds’ worth of it
would have brought it toppling down with a crash.
The point is that O’Pherson lays only one-fourth his
“winner” price for “a place,” so on his own show-
ing O’Pherson would have paid out only £8 ss. for £1
invested on the Count for a place.
The trouble over the alleged pacing in the
Dunlop 100-Miles Relay Test has blown over appar-
ently, and the Northern Suburbs (Sydney) will take
the spoil, provided it secures a declaration from a
J.P. that the team did not receive outside pace dur-
ing the contest. Whether the Dunlop Co. wants a
J.P.’s evidence as to the fact, or is willing to take
a sworn statement attested by a J.P., is not very
clear. But, in either case, the thing desired is
fairly sure to be forthcoming, as half North Sydney
watched that sprint; and J’s.P. are thick as peas in
a pod. Under these circs., the Northern Suburbs
team will collar £100; the Ixion Club (Melbourne)
£5O, and the Marshland Club (M.L.) £2O. George
Border; of North Sydney, will grab the £5 ss.
for the fastest individual riding, with O’Shea and
Bonis (M.L.) second and third with £3 3s. and
£ 2 2s. respectively. The times were fairly close,
Northern Suburbs covering the distance in 4hr.
lOmin. 20sec., Ixion in 4hr. 13min. 10see., and
Marshland 4hr. 13min. 28sec.
* * * *
There is one great advantage about the
self-starting device that most motorists have over-
looked. In a car fitted with a self-starter one can,
when touring,, pull up at every decent-looking pub
with impunity; and when a bit of elegant scenery
rushes into view the car and the engine can be stop-
ped while the ladies use their cameras, and it can
be started again by the fattest man in the party
without getting out of the car. It is having to leave
the car to re-start the engine that irritates the ordi-
nary fattest man. When Henry VIII., and the Tich-
borne Claimant both got out of the car to give it a
fresh start the things those lumbering creatures said
were dreadful. They sounded like a pair of hostile
elephants who had eaten Dr. Johnson’s dictionary.
* * * *
Reginald Baker, of the many Stadiums,
stepped off the ’Frisco boat on Monday afternoon,
and the same night found himself the guest in the
huge banquet hall of the Hotel Australia. Mr. Baker
talked attractively of his travels, and interested this
writer most when he spoke of the remarkable influ-
ence of Carpentier upon the French people. Car-
pentier, it seems, is a regenerator. The victories
he has won, the grace of his exhibitions, have estab-
lished a new religion in France. A couple of years ago
there was only one physical-culture establishment in
air Paris. Mr. Baker himself visited over' a'dozen
just before starting for home, and the last week he
was in Paris a general order was issued for the
teaching of “la boxe” right through the French army.
In the provincial towns it is just the same. The
whole country seems to have suddenly desired to be
as like Carpentier as possible, and, to meet the
demand, the Government is organising, a bureau to
teach young men athleticism. It looks like the begin-
ning of a physical renaissance •' in which the nation
will set itself solidly to wipe out the physical deteri-
oration that set in after the best had been killed
in the Napoleonic and later wars. The Germans have
not taken to boxing, but Mr. Baker discovered that
the Emperor had insisted that all German cadets shall
play football. And play football they will! Which
particular code they will follow, is,, of. course, un-
known. It seems that Carpentier’s failure to come
to Australia was due, not to dissatisfaction with the
price offered, but to the two facts that he is a shock-
ing sailor and is very much in love. He has not
yet married the lady, and he felt that no money
could compensate him for the horrors of a long sea
voyage and six months of separation from the object
of his devotion. So he abandoned the'idea of making
the trio. . Mr. Baker watched the Carpentier-
Jeannette battle, and totally disagreed with the
verdict. As he saw it, Carpentier got all over the
renowned black and received practically no punish-
ment —he lunched with Carpentier the next
day and saw that his face was quite un-
marked. However, Australian fight-followers will
find balm for the loss of Carpentier in the
fact - that practically every other first-grade boxer
in the world is under some arrangement with the
Stadium to come to Australia in the near future.
» * * *
The Carroll-Moore scrap at Melbourne on
Saturday night was a sad and unsatisfactory busi-
ness. Moore let loose a hideous right swing that
broke Carroll up very badlv by the time the 11th
round had been reached. It would have done so long
before but at the beginning Moore was distinctly
nervous and forgot for a while how to ply his trade
of putting a head on his brother pug. But as soon
as he got over his maiden modesty he flung the
right swing around in great style, and in the 10th
Carroll was down no less than four times. The
gong brought respite. He came out very groggy
indeed for the 11th, and Moore met him with the
same old right swing. Carroll was practically out,
but still on his feet, and they fell into a clinch,
with Moore’s arm encircling Carroll’s neck. Carroll
did not obey the referee’s order to step back because,
annarently, he couldn’t, and Moore was so eager to
finish his deplorable job he could think of nothing
but working Carroll into a convenient position to
smash him. Then referee Newhouse crashed down
like Fate, tore them apart and disqualified Moore
in the very moment of victory. There was an
awful howl from the audience, and Moore nearly
fainted. Carroll, on the other hand, woke right up
and started to take quite a lot of notice.
When Milburn Saylor fought Tom McCor-
mick in Sydney Stadium some few weeks ago the
Briton dealt Milburn an awful bash on the hip-bone,
which made him grin hard right through the battle
and limp to his corner at end of each round. On
Saturday he was to have met Herbert McCoy in a
return fight, in which the Australian hoped to remove
the stigma of his recent defeat. But on Thursday
night it was announced that the battle was off, under
medical orders. The doctor said lumbago; Saylor
said Tom McCormick’s wallop. Anyway, Herbert
McCoy, neighing for battle, found himself without an
opponent. Into the breach stepped the young Anglo-
Hebrew fighter who trades under the ugly name of
“Kid” Lewis. He was taking a risk, con-
sidering that he had not quite finished his pre-
paration, while McCoy, always a hard fighter, was
trained to fight the battle of his life. Evidently he
is a “kid” of some parts. He was the first to enter
the ring, where he received a strangely enthusiastic
welcome, considering that he is practically unknown,
and that this was his first appearance in Australia.
But, then, all Jewry was present, and when Jewry
lifts up its voice it can make a mighty row, as the
walls of Jericho once bore testimony. Lewis, who
was in the pantry when the Almighty was dispensing
good looks in the drawing-room, is somewhat taller
than McCoy, and also has a slight advantage of
reach. In action, he is faintly reminiscent of “Jump-
ing Jehoshaphat” Stone, but lacked the finished skill
of that Mephistophelean wonder. Like Stone, he
depends on speed to keep him out of harm’s reach
and to get home his wallop without accepting any-
thing in return.
Dancing round the ring with a set, expressionless
face and eyes that could not be seen, Lewis was
horribly suggestive of a galvanised corpse. But
there was nothing corpse-like in his method or his
speed. He was on the move all the time, and moved
so fast that the shorter-legged McCoy could not keep
pace with him. It must not be inferred that he was
running away. He was not. lie was moving in and
out and round about and from side to side, baffling
the hurrying, eager' Australian, and causing him to
miss badly. McCoy was the attacking party right
up till the end of the sixth round, when Lewis landed
a heavy left and followed up with a really terrific
right that made McCoy’s jaws rattle. After the
saving gong, Lewis came out to finish it; assuming
the offensive for a few seconds, he showered both
fists so fast it Was hard to follow him till, with a
heavy right, he sent McCoy staggering to the ropes.
It was just there his indifferent preparation found
him out, and he suddenly tired. The effort had par-
tially exhausted him. McCoy, recovering quickly,
met him with a left swing that caused the adversary’s
knees to bend. Yet as he straightened up he caught
McCoy on the nose with a lance-like left that sent
his finishing stroke to the clouds. After the 10th
the Hebrew’s strength waned visibly, but he fought
with great skill and courage, and made a very
gallant showing. He had piled up a big lead of
points in the earlier part of the combat, and
although McCoy started to make up his leeway he
did not do it fast enough. The Hebrew would flash
out brilliantly and replenish the waning margin. As
he sent home his quick, snappy blows one or other of
his hind feet would rise in the air, and point at
the roof of the building. A most remarkable'sight!
McCoy, in close fighting, repeatedly landed on the
back of the neck in Saylor-like fashion, and he also
succeeded in getting home on the Hebrew nose with
the right in a way that troubled Lewis considerably.
But always after a stiff dose of punishment the alien’s
right foot would shoot up backwards and his left would
hit McCoy’s nose, sometimes twice and thrice in
rapid sequence. And right to the end he main-
tained the winning margin and duly received the
larger end of .the purse. Considering that he was
a practically half-trained substitute, he well earned
the wild applause which followed the declaration of
his victory. He is a fine fighter, and in condition
will be a very formidable opponent for the! great
Saylor him Self. His next opponent is Hughie
Mehegan, at Sydney Stadium, June 13.
* * * *
Next Saturday night, according to report
from the booking offices, there is going to be a record
house to watch Jeff Smith and Jimmy Clabby wage
war for the Middle-weight Championship of the worlds
This will be the third world championship to be con-
tested in the Rushcutter’s Bay Stadium, and, on
appearances, it should be a fine, close contest. Also,
the two gladiators are about the handsomest in the
game. With his clothes off Smith looks like a
Greek god with his hair cut short, while Clabby’s
expression of sweet winsomeness is one of the most
beautiful things in existence. What they will look
like after the scrap only high Heaven knows!


It’s Time You Learnt
to Defend Yourself!
r-
Every man resents insult. But every man
cannot avenge it. He may attempt to and
get a sound beating. Just because he’s a
raw, unskilful, plucky fellow who does not
own defeat until he’s “down and out.”
Pluck WITHOUT skill is a bad asset for
you to have. Pluck WITH skill will gain
you the title—a “snag.”
I can teach you to be a “snag.”
I TEACH BOXINC
BY POST
—teach you how to better care for yourself,
fill you with that confidence that comes
from a knowledge that you “know how.”
You’ll be surprised at the simpleness of the
tuition, and at your rapid progress which
my efficient methods ensure.
You’ll find the instruction an enjoyable pas-
time, brimful of health-giving relaxation and
exercise.
You’ll be always glad you learnt to better defend yourself. It’s a life-long asset.
You’d better make a start by getting my terms and descriptive booklet now.
Send 3d. to cover postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
307 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
DO YOU ENJOY
a mild, yet well-flav-
vored Cigar? If so,
I want you to try my
“Club
Royals”
and, if you don’t like
them, you are at lib-
erty to return same,
even though you have
opened the box, and I
will only charge you
for the cigars actually
smoked. That is a
very fair offer, isn’t it?
It proves, too, that I
have confidence in my
goods.
“Q.JiUb Royals” are
hand-made from the
finest Havana Leaf,
and are put up in cabi-
nets of 50, 207-
Postage in N.S.W.,
9d.; Inter-State, 1/2.
My Illustrated Cata-
log, entitled “A Dis-
criminating Smoker’s
Guide,” will interest
every smoker.
Send for a copy to-day.
Post Free.
Actual Size.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AVIATION.
H. GUILLAUX,
like
H. Q. HAWKER,
G. HAMEL,
and all famous Aviators,
pins his faith to
“SHELL”
BENZINE
Williams’ Holder Top
Shaving Stick.
For a practical proof of the
excellence of this new idea,
send 3d. in stamps to The J.
B. Williams Co.,
Box 98 G.P.0.,
Sydney, and you
will receive by re-
turn mail a liberal
sample exactly
like illustration.
PCRfORATinNS
m t: 1
mm
All Wideawake
Chemists sell it.
Kriischen
? Salts x
Mow sold by Chemists tnrougnout cue commonwealth.
Wholesale Importers:
H. & W. GREAR, 287, i Stnet. SYDNEY
Hotelkeepers! Hotelkeepers!
ECKERSLEY’S DISPENSER
For the Rapid Production of Pure,
Crystal, Effervescent, Draught Lemon-
ade, Sodawater and every variety of
Aerated Drink.
NO LABOR! NO BOTTLE-WASHING!
NO BOTTLE FILLING. NO LABELLING OF
BOTTLES! NO BROKEN BOTTLES!
WORKS AUTOMATICALLY.
-By Electric or Water Power.
Bar attendant simply pulls a lever and mechanical
power instantly supplies the required drink.
Write for descriptive Catalog to
•J i T-
ir
ECKERSLEY’S,
25a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
or S. MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS:
Messrs. ELLIOTT DONALDSON & DOUGLAS, 529-33 Queen Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Wool )
Hides
Tallow
Sheep Skins >
Rabbit Skins
and Other
Produce.
SALES held at frequent
intervals by
A.M.LjF.CO.
LIMITED
4 BLIGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Correspondence Invited.
You can BUY RIGNEY
SHOES BY MAIL
sd
equally as satisfactorily as by calling at our
shoe-parlors personally.
Our mail-order department is under the per-
sonal supervision of Mr. F. C. Rigney, so
country clients can be assured of the same
perfect fit, and the same careful attention
to their requirements, as city patrons.
The illustration is a Tan Willow Calf, Three-
button Shoe. Smart American Shape, Brown
Cloth Insertion Tops. “Non-Tread-Oyer”
Brand. Best English manufacture.
Price 32/0
Also in Patent Leather, 32/6 and 357-
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for our Catalog.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 17Qa Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
GIGANTIC CONVEYOR BELT
•• MADE BY THE ••
•DUNLOP RUBBERC?'
TO THE ORDER OF •• ,
BROKEN MILL PROP IT C 2
SPECIFICATIONS
..OF..
CONVEYOR BELT
Total Length -4875. feet.
(7 Sections)
Width - • - 36 inches
Thickness - - $4 Inch
Total Weight 30% tons
Type— Filled body, 6 plies
in centre, 9 plies canvas
at. edges.
THE ILLUSTRATION
depicts one of the 7 sec-
tions of -this Conveyor
Equipment.. It weighed
5 % tons, and was 835
feet long.
\
iB S
Interesting
to note that the above Conveyor, which is one of the largest yet made in the
world, will carry a load of a ton every 15 feet, and travel at the rate of about
250 feet per minute. It is to be used for the loading of ironstone from the
crushers at Hummick Hill (S.A.) into vessels for conveyance to Newcastle
(N.S.W.) 12,000 yards of belting duck was usad in its construction.
THE LEADING MINES IN AUSTRALIA
are nearly all equipped with “ Dunlop” Belts, experience having proved that they
easily outwear the imported article/and stand alone for Quality and Strength.
Tenders Submitted for all classes of BELTS, PACKINGS, INSERTIONS, HOSES, &c.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. ADELAIDE. PERTH. BRISBANE. WELLINGTON AND CHRISTCHURCH.


“CHUNDER
At Empire Music Hail.
TAKES
TRIP HOME.
A
fi •- >
W/J
i X
777
I
k*®' \ ■; to
f* £
J l:
. f
• 'i.
I ;} j
XI ’ f >
/■ .
vj
OWm
if
iialn\i.
1-
py
l -a***7&
fflt
\ 1 ;V
»
ii!/
fK:V
S®
cy
»
. 7 "Tla.
w.jf
m
*
7"
a-
;v / •'H 8 ?
( r V
fi* ! j 3
f fit If o 1-
L **/»••*•* * **X&£*\
3^
u
' -\<*&r y ''*-w M? »
\
/
*" \k ' ’Hv I! M*• 11| f I /
VSw* »/'Af U Iff ?|:••; ;■ ' J
I
07" * : =i^aa«^s;.. .a' •! *“«*>&»*,
: --■•^•—v-
FA
1
Wft*
j V
mill h
c
!s&#
%
£2
(tIA^S
-. i V —■«»... y j
\l ✓
US
I \H
/J J i
x A
P^§C —.. ',/y
m
/ /
v'.<
V
•vw
; it
WJ
jj if pi f‘l
lit III?
V\s
fu
0
,7
'sxstSse’'•%*?”
a»^i(Sf>-
aiSe?
fM'£>
(O f**
/>»
<4
Cobra,” Boot Polish
r y>
V
!
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Has to see
The “Km pi re’’ too.
H ere we have
The “COBRA” pair
(H ow that dress-suit
Fits the bear !)
Going in to
See the stars
And look round
The famous bars
Song and laughter
Make all bright ;
This will be.
A “COBRA” night


Business Notices.
ARCHER AND CO., 24 Bond Street,
have TRUST MONEYS TO LEND
in large and small sums, on Interests under
Wills and in Intestate Estates, and on
Freehold Mortgage. Lowest rates of interest.
OPEAKERS, Lecturers, Writers are offered expert
assistance at moderate tees. Prospectus post free
on application to the Secretary, London General In-
formation Service, 111 St. Stephen’s House, Westmin-
ster, London, England.
A Razor Saver
For Every Shaver!
The edge of a razor consists
of minute saw-like teeth.
Rust eats away these teeth,
making the razor “ drag.”
A keen-cutting and perfect
edge is maintained if you put
a few drops of
3 IN ONE
IN ONE
OIL
on the strop; and a few on the
blade, before and after shaving.
It prevents corrosion, makes
the razor glide over the face,
ensures a shave of infinite joy.
Golf Clubs
■™“ Are kept in ideal condi-
tion with “Three-in-One” Oil.
Roller Skates
Run. -with. delightful
smoothness when cleaned and
lubricated with “ Three-in-
One.”
On sale everywhere.
Write for Free Sample Bottle !
REID & REID,
Australasian Agents,
82 S, Harris Street, Wellington, N.Z.
P€B€CO
TOOTH-PASTE
If our teeth could talk—
they would say something
like this :
“Yes, we are thankful for
our friends—the millions
of Tooth Brushes. They
do splendid work as far as
they go.
“We are grateful for the hund-
dreds of dentrifices. They
in turn do a splendid work —
so far as they go. But both
together fall far short of pro-
tecting our only
weapon of tooth protection.
“Is there no escape from these
* MOUTH ACIDS ' these ever-
present mouth fluids which unseen,
unbidden, are working day and night
to break down our armour plate—and
then make the soft inside tooth struc-
ture easy prey to decay-germs ?”
We answer :
“ There IS escape from ‘ Acid Mouth.’
Pebeco Tooth Paste is the one dentri-
fice to-day which prevents ‘ Acid
Mouth,’ the direct cause of 95 °/ 0 of
all tooth-decay.”
Send 3d. stamps for sample tube
and interesting test of Acid
Mouth.
Of all Chemists.
G. ARNOLD, 6 O’Connell Street,
Sydney (Wholesale only).
Entertained
by tbe World’s
Best Artists.
You would welcome the oppor-
tunity of hearing the world’s
greatest artists in the turns that
have made them famous. The
easiest, cheapest and most enjoy- :
able way to do so is to get an
Edison Phonograph. It makes
available to all, at a small cost,
the best of entertainment. Its
rendition is clear, sweet, pure
and true, unmistakably different
from the ordinary talking
machine.
Hear the Edison Phonograph at
the nearest dealer’s to-day.
There is one quite handy to
you. If you do not know his
address, write us and we will
supply it, also send latest lists
H of machines and records.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
Dept. B„ 364-372 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
To wake up on the instalment plan
Big Ben will get you up on the in-
stalment plan, a little at a time, by
ringing every other half minute for
ten minutes, so you’ll wake up grad-
ually. Or he’ll do the whole job all
at once, with one long, straight, five-
minute ring.
You can set him to do it as you
choose, and shut him off short in
the middle of his call either way.
That makes him two good clocks
in one, to suit everybody’s taste in
early rising.
He plays no pranks. He won’t go
off before it’s time and rob you of
your full measure of sleep. He won’t
go off behind time and rob you of
your work time. It’s Big Ben’s busi-
ness to run on time, to ring on time,
and to stay on time.
Big Ben attends to his own busi-
ness and helps you attend to yours
by getting you and the farm hands
out early.
Then he sticks around the house
and keeps time all day for the women
folks so they can have your meals
on time.
There never was a clock that fitted
in ’better with the farm work.
He’s triple-nickel plated, and so
handsome you’ll want to keep him
in the parlor instead of a bedroom.
Stands seven inches tall from the top of
his head to the tips of his toes ; has big easy-
winding keys, large hands, and big figures
that you can read at a distance on dark morn-
ings, and is built of good implement steel so
he'll last for years. He’s doing this kind of
work in millions of homes to-day.
Big Ben is made in La Salle, Illinois,
U.S.A., by Westclox. His price is 12/6,
postage 1/- extra. If you cannot find him in
your town, send a money order makers’'
Australian office, Westclox, 63 Pitt Street,
Sydney. They will have one mailed to
you at once by the nearest jeweller.
v:
[XEMD
BRACES
For Men who know
Quality , Comfort, Style
At first class shops ,
The Royal
Tonic —
The Tonic
of Queens !
PHOSFEKi
bfukwaUvtiUrir UikbiU
bMMn. |M C Vi!. fc.V
T'mkWbt. «M •»«
**»»•«; Vffill MtVUwia
r
&
This is unexcelled as a Nerve Tonic
—a proven remedy for Nervous De-
bility, Influenza, Indigestion, Sleep-
lessness, . Exhaustion, Neuralgia, Ma-
ternity Weakness, Premature Decay,
Mental Exhaustion, Loss of Appetite,
Lassitude, Neuritis, Faintness, Brain-
Fag, Anaemia, Backache, Rheumatism,
Headache, Hysteria, Sciatica and dis-
orders consequent upon a reduced state
of the nervous system.
Beware of imitations ! The Genu-'
ine Phosferine is in a buff package,
labelled, ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD.,
LONDON.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT ALL
CHEMISTS.
WAVEfiLEY FOUNTAIN PENS
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
:: FREE
REASON OF
Inc ELASTICITY AND PERFECTION OF THF
,NK )^V N ,f l f, v T!; f S£ TA ' N ™ns. tigfSil'S
; SOLD BY ;
STATIONERS
AND
; DEALERS :
Wholesale Agent; ROBERT HUTTON, 321 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
The Inky Way.
“Marinoa”: The S. M. Herald and Telegraph
were wise to allow their agents to handle the new
Sydney tabor daily. Open hostility would have only
benefited the bantling. As it is, there exists a big
percentage of disgruntled toilers who resent the man-
ner in which they are being compelled to disgorge
their money without any possibility of a concrete
return. Their enthusiasm will take a lot of stirring.
One of the biggest problems with which J. C. Wat-
son will be faced is in regard to the appointment of
good country agents. It may be taken for granted
that in each town there will be several good Laborites
(in addition to the established agent) who will see
a nice easy living sticking out, and as many of these
gentlemen will naturally hold the opinion that an
agent’s duty consists merely in throwing papers over
sundry garden fences, they will not be anxious to see
the other fellow get it. What Mr. Watson, or his
inspectors, will have to realise, is that to carry on a
big agency a man must be financially strong. The
Would will not be in a position to wait for its
money, and as good Laborites are not necessarily
always good “pays,” it is quite on the cards that
agents (especially newchums at the game) are going
to have quite a heap of trouble in collecting their
accounts. Especially is there a risk in this direction
with the Labor Daiiy customers, many of whom have
had to unwillingly spar up a substantial contribution
towards its foundation, and will therefore to some
extent feel themselves justified in “cutting it out.”
The chances of the new paper succeeding would be
very bright indeed if every worker were as true to
his principles as he is loud in his criticism of the
Herald and Telegraph. Unfortunately for the
hopes of Watson and co., many of these gentry have
women-folk attached to them. And women take some
shifting from one serial story to another. Altogether
the World is in for a stormy time, and this scribe
hates to think of the rage of the members of the
Coalclifton miners’ lodge when the half-column re-
port of its monthly meeting gets chopped down to
five lines.
* * * *
Exit at Edinburgh (Scotland) W. H. Oliphant
Smeaton, some time of the Australian Inky Way.
He was on Melbourne Daily Telegraph (since de-
funct) as reporter, leader-writer and dramatic critic.
In 1888 he left Melbourne and struck up to Queens-
land, where until 1893 he edited the Daily North-
ern Argus (Rockhampton). And so to Edinburgh
where he brought out a score of books, among them
a “Life of Shakspeare.” Edinburgh is a cold rocky
place to die in, and bitter is the wind that blows out
of the Grassmarket.
* * * *
In Perth two arbitrators and an umpire have been
chewing a tough proposition ; they have been trying
to find out how much the goodwill of a newspaper
is worth. Harper and Hackett each owned a half-
share of the West Australian, and on the death of
either the other had a right to buy the dead man’s
interest. Hackett was the survivor, and a question
arose as to the size of the cheque he should draw.
The value of the plant and other tangible assets was
easily settled, but the question of goodwill was thrown
to arbitration. The accountant who represented the
Syme estate when old David’s will came up for pro-
bate gave evidence that the Victorian authorities
wanted to value the goodwill at 10 times the average
annual profit for the previous two years, less in-
terest on the capital actually employed in the busi-
ness. He (the accountant) reckoned it ought to be
seven years’ purchase instead" of 10, and' the matter
\yas compromised at eight. Incidentally, the Mel-
bourne Herald and Sydney Daily Telegraph have
been dragged into the Perth argument. In the case
of the Telegraph, judging by the price of the shares,
the market seems to appraise the goodwill at more
than 20 times the annual profits. But the market
quotation is the quotation for perhaps five or 10
shares. If the whole 26,000 odd were offered in a
lump the figure might be very different. Bonuses
and all thrown in, Sydney Telegraph shares at
present prices don’t yield an immediate 4 p.c. to
the purchaser. The dividend alone does not show 2£
p.c.; and if the public were offered a concern whose
profits on the capital proposed did not show more
than that, the company would have mighty little
chance of floating. The case of the Telegraph has,
therefore, very little bearing on the tough Perth
proposition. In fact, no other case has much bear-
ing on it. • Goodwill is a spirit, and the foot-rule
which you use to measure one spirit is no good for
running over other members of the spooky tribe.
* ■ * * *
“The Law’s Long Arm” was the heading supplied
by Sydney Evening. News for the Vancouver news
item about, the three-years’ search just commenced
by a North-West mounted policeman for the Eskimos
who are alleged to have murdered two Arctic Circle
explorers. Why not “The Law’s Lohg Leg” ? Then,
if the policeman fails to get his men, or if there
really are no men to get, the sub-heading could be
“Pulled Again!”
The other day a Ballarat paper, owing to the in-
discretion of a comp., spoke of the Argus as “the
Melbourne mourning daily.” Seeing that the Argus
has buried so many dead causes, and is bound almost
entirely to dead politicians, it should be a mourning
daily if it isn’f. , ,
*’ * * *
“Bulli”: Another instance of the scanty
honor a man meets with in his own country! A
locally-published pamphlet entitled “The History of
Aviation,” by Ambrose Pratt, not only ignores the
name of Lawrence Hargreaves, but even contains these
words: “It is permissible to hope that Australian in-
ventors will play some part in extending the develop-
ment of aerial navigation. So far, they have done
nothing.” Contrast with this the statement to be
found in European books on aviation, to the effect
that the principles of the modern aeroplane were first
clearly enunciated by the “Australian, Hargreaves.’
The experiments of Hargreaves with box-kites and
heavier-than-air flying machines are so well known
that- it is hard to realise the apparent ignorance of
them exhibited by an Australian, particularly an Aus-
tralian journalist.
ALL ASHORE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W.
The rattling “donkey” ceases,
The bell says we must part,
You long slab of good-nature,
And poetry and art!
We’ll miss your smile in Sydney,
We’ll miss your care-free air;
Where care-free airs are needed
And grins are growing rare.
Good health ! Good pay ! Good liquor,
And good pals, night and day,
Good morning and good evening—
God bless you, Hugh McCrae!
HENRY LAWSON.
REJECTED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One comes to me, who says, ’tween grief and pleasure,
“My dove is dead! Killed at mv very door;
Ah, woe it is! Yet it will eat right tender.
My dove is dead, and I Will keep no more;
Come to my house to-night and share my supper.’’
And so it is with me; my verse rejected
Falls on my doormat slain, arid ne’er to shed,
In smiling print, its simple, dainty fragrance.
Come to my house to-night, my verse is dead,
And we will smoke, and burn it at our leisure;
Let out its incense on the midnight air.
What was a dove, in savory dish, shall render
Food and sweet scent to friendship, balm to care;
And solace to the. underman, and upper;
Nor shall my jest reveal my soul dejected,
The while yre watch each thought and line consume,
And quip and laughter echo round the room;
And now and then we’ll catch the fancy’s vagrance,
And stay destruction from the fading bloom
Of some soft rhyme, before my verse is dead.
SPAIN.'
WAIF.


Safeguarding the Sale
The whole purpose of the sale is to get more money into the
Bank.
Unless you have a proper system of safeguarding the sale
you are safer with your stock in your shop than in the hands
of your customers.
The National Cash Register furnishes the only positive
system of safeguarding every sale.
There is a kind and size of National built to meet the special
requirements of vour shop.
Write for information about the National Cash
Register built for use in every line of business.
The National Cash Register Go. of Australasia, Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE———II 9 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches in all Principal Cities.
SoOV«i)irs at
STEWART PAWSON’S.
Something Authentic to Send Home.
Acceptable
because
Typical of
Australia
and
Australian
Workmanship,
No. 6.—Silver-plated and
carved EMU EGG on
Ebony Stand. height
10£in., 25/-
No. 2.—Silver-plated and
carved EMU EGG, on
Ebony Stand. 25/-
We will gladly
mail a full List
of Souvenirs on
Request.
We Pay the
Full Postage.
No better way
to foster the
Imperial Spirit
than by
acquainting
others with
\
our products.
No. 7.- —Silver-
pi a t ed and
carved E M U
EGG. on Ebony
Plinth, height
lOiin. £l/1/-
Straod Corocr, 412 Seorgt Street,
SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIA : Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON: 19 to 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.; & 73 to 81 Regent St., W.
Aft Effective Safeguard
against breakdown losses and inconvenience
of idle machines is to purchase “ A.E.G. ”
slipping motors with
AEG.’ FOOL=PROOF STARTERS
USED EXTENSIVELY IN TIMBER MILLS, FACTORIES, MINES.
Write for Information.
Australian Metal Co. Ltd.,
NO
SLIDING
CONTACTS
TO STICK
NO
RESISTANCES
TO BURN OUT
IMPOSSIBLE
TO SWITCH IN
TOO FAST, l
40-42 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY,
172-6 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
Gilbert Place.
ADELAIDE.
“Lakekamu" turns cocoanuts into money:
Permit me to say something on the copra-
growing industry that “Kunasarta” (B. 5/2/’l4)
speaks so sensibly about. For the man with
enough capital to take up the business and
live on his property for six years after planting,
there is nothing surer on this planet. “Kunasarta”
is below the right figure when he states that the nuts
planted on the quincunx system only total 40 to the
acre. Here in Papua we plant them usually about
30ft. apart on the same system, and we find that 50
trees to the acre can be easily planted. On very rich
soil, river flats near the sea, along the beaches, and
on the innumerable coral islands off the. coast the
trees can be planted much closer, even within 25ft.
of each other, so that as many as 80 trees can be
grown to the acre. But this is not a wise plan,
because catch crops cannot then be grown between the
lines, and if a disease like, root or bud rot breaks
out, the difficulty in treating the trees is, much
increased, besides the greater danger of infection
through the trees being so close to each other. The
average yield of a healthy, well-grown tree is about
65 nuts a year, or, allowing 56 trees to the acre, a
total of 3640 nuts —approximately llcwt. of copra,
worth at current market price in Papau £l5. If
the grower was able to ship his copra direct to the
European markets he would realise about £8 a ton
more. Supposing a man with £5OOO capital went
in for the business and planted about 250 acres,
which he could easily do, and live on the property
for six years besides, he would, about the sixth
year, receive the sum of £3OOO from his first crop.
The seventh year would bring him in nearly £4OOO,
and each year after that would keep his bank
account swelling. The prices paid for copra estates
in the Solomon Islands mentioned by “Kunasarta”
seem very high compared with what similar-sized
plantations here (Papua) have realised. One estate
of 900 acres, of which 330 acres are bearing,' was
on the market for some time, and the highest price
offered was only £9OOO. The owners would not
sell for this figure. The profits from copra are
enormous after the sixth year, and the owner of
only a small block of 100 acres can look forward to
a certain income of £4OO a year for life, after pay-
ing all expenses. The average cost to bring heavily-
timbered land into bearing here is, approximately,
£2O an acre, if the man in charge of the planta-
tion is well versed in the work. If he is a newchum
to the game his costs will soar up to any sum, but
even with poor luck in ; the way of bad weather at
the burning-off time,' unfertile seed-nuts, and labor
troubles, the cost should not go beyond £3O an
acte. Tn the latter eventuality it would mean that
only one yekr longer would have to be allowed before
the plantation would have paid for itself, so that
the eighth year would bring in the first dividend.
Already several of the rubber > planters here have
declared in favor of the much more reliable cocoanut,
and the planting of the former is not nearly so
popular as formerly. The Government has com-
menced to plant cocoanuts as a sinking fund to help
it over the day when Uncle Cohen closes down on
loans, and the acreage held on the 80th June, 1913,
came to 503. Of rubber the Government had an
area of 230 acres ; and it is also doing something in
cocoa. The' natives, also, are being shaken up to
plant more nuts, and in this connection a little fine
of ss. or 14 days hard is keeping Brown Brother
up to the mark. Since this law has come in it is
estimated that 1 quite 20{),0Q0 trees, or, allowing for
the straggling way the'brethren plant, some 4000
acres have ' been devoted to cocoanuts. Besides this
area, the white planters have some 22,000 acres,
which will be turning put copra in about three years
time.
The worst theatre-goer in the world,
according to novelist Frankfurt Moore, him-
self an Ulsterman, is the Ulster Orangeman.
Moore has just published an exceedingly
candid volume of impressions and experi-
ences under the title of “The Truth about
Ulster.” Not only does Moore’s Ulsterman
disdain the play and the playgoer, but he
has an equally profound contempt for people
who read books. “Reading and idleness go
together” is a saying of his. Moore depicts
the typical Ulster Carsonite as a hard-
headed business man, devoid of. sentiment,
imagination, humor, culture and the milk of
human kindness. “When he gives a sub-
scription to charity he expects it to return
to him with interest at a trifle over bank
rates.” The difference- between him and the
Celtic Irishman is thus summarised: “In
the South hospitality is an impulse; in
Ulster it is a consideration.”
C. E. Matthews, recently appointed In-
spector-General of M.L. Gaols, is a native of
the quivering islands. Born near Nelson, in
1872, he entered the Treasury in 1889. In
1896 he was pushed into the Department of
Justice, and for 13 years served as private
secretary to various Ministers. In 1900 he
became chief clerk of police, and in 1912
ditto in the Department of Justice. Then
he was made Deputy-Inspector of Prisons,
and now, through Dr. Hay, his chief, having
his hands full as Inspector-General of Men-
tal Hospitals, Matthews is elevated to. the
uttermost rung of his department. He is at
present in Australia inquiring into a rumor
that in some respects the prisons, particu-
larly of N. S. Wales, are better conducted
than those of lOU Land.
The Socialistic tiger in a new turn: —
The Maoriland railways are steamships also, in a
manner of speaking. The most accessible show-place
of consequence in the Antarctic end of the South
Island is Wakatipu, the solitary Cold Lake which
can be reached by train. The rail-head butts in at
Kingston, where the lake isn’t a thing of much beauty.
It is on the far end, at Queenstown, with Ben
Lomond on one side and the Remarkables on the
other, and the Shotover River at the back and the
lake in front, that the visitor begins to sit up and
take notice. Having built the railway to Kingston,
the Government didn’t wait for Private Enterprise to
do the rest; it wasn’t like N.S.W. Governments, which
see an occult connection between State enterprise
and dry land and a world of difference between tram-
cars and ferries. So when you want to go to Queens-
town you don’t have to buy two tickets —one for the
dry-land beginning and the other for the wet-lake
end. You take a railway ticket right through, and
find railway porters on the wharf behaving just as if
they didn’t know it wasn’t a platform. Also, having
supplied the connection between Kingston and Queens-
town, the Railway Department reckoned it might as
well handle the whole tourist and other trade of the
capacious lake; wherefore it put on more steamers
and manned them with sea-dogs dressed in a cross
between naval rig and a train-conductor’s uniform.
And, though they don’t waste much money on light-
ing the steamers, it’s a pretty good service. As a
general thing, its charges are very moderate; and
when there is a holiday the Department doesn't sit
back and make a haul out of the extra crowd—it does
what the State railways do as a rule and the private
enterprise ferries never do —announces excursion fares
and carries the crowded passenger at about half
ordinary rates.


Switchboards for Every Service
DESIGNED, MANUFACTURED, ASSEMBLED, INSPECTED by the GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY (U.S.A.).
ECONOMY
IN ALL RINDS
OF PLANTS.
Demands for Switch-
boards, specially de-
signed to meet the oper-
ating requirements, yet
moderate in the first cost.
To fulfil these conditions
the General Electric Co.
(U.S.A.) have recently
extended its line of
standard high-grade
switchboards.
There is a small switch-
board particularly adap-
ted to your requirements.
Full explanation of these
switchboards may be had
on request for bulletin
No. 4944.
IMI
A a A
* *
m
y
rr
tr*
I
* •
'■ ir
The most complete and
comprehensive line of
switchboard ever stand-
ardised.
Better service, all ex-
pense in the first in-
vestment- —n o repairs
later on. These are
points which have made
the General Electric
Co. (U.S.A.) switch-
boards famous all over
the world.
LARGE
OR SMALL
REQUIREMENTS
PROMPTLY
ATTENDED TO.
a
Melbourne
Collins
Queen ©Little
Cor
dne
Street
S
31T Clarenc
e
ONCE BIT — TWICE SHY.
‘ '•* * ... i ~ : . ! .i ; . .
How many unfortunate Engine Buyers in this State now wish they had profited
by their neighbor’s experience and purchased a
“MARSHALL” Steam Engine
fsd
Made by thoroughly competent BRITISH workmen from the very
best materials the world produces.
THE MARSHALL
represents the Highest Grade and Most Reliable Engine ever
offered for sale in this or any other country.
Take no chances, but pin your faith to an article with a reputation. Latest Pattern Portables, all sizes, 2 to 40 h.p.
Steam and Oil Tractors. Vertical and Horizontal Stationary Engines. Vertical and Colonial Type Boilers.
BEST POSSIBLE TERMS. Discount for Cash. Descriptive Catalogs Free.
R. L. SCRUTTON ®. CO. LTD
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
“WHERE YOU ALWAYS GET A FAIR DEAL


Shipping.
P, and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
T’t'a MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
1 ’Twin Screw. All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 1/s
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
0. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
;CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Mills & Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA E.N GLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless
’elegraphy. New and 1
jxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Booms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sitdnev.
ItniikiiiK, Public Companies, &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
DEPOSIT YOU) SURPLUS MONEY
in this Bank, where it will earn INTEREST
at on the first £2OO, and 3% on the
excess to £5OO, and be REPAYABLE ON
DEMAND when you require it.
Deposits Received from Is.
MONEY TO LEND ON MORTGAGE
at Low Interest to Farmers and Settlers and.
on Approved City and Suburban Freeholds.
This Bank has No Agencies at Post Offices.
Represented in the State by 125 Branches
and over 500 Aqrencies.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. (I. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE-
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £382,500.
Directors: lion. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
lion. ROBERT PIIILP, M.L.A. ; Hon. A. J.
TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 242 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. ..£2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (31st Dec., 1913) .. .. £1,195,446
RESERVE FUND £35,000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydnei’.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon,
Esq.; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank N.
Yarwood, Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .• £BOO.OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . 154,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
Alt’'neu> ,j business since 1893 specially protected.
.DiiytpTons—Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Btmning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
Generat. Manaoer — W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE . - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East
fhe Colonial fljutual [ife
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability : also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wai.es: ■
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts. C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C.. M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretan
Shipping;.
ORDDEUTSCHER IxLOYD, N.D.L.
IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS,
TO COLOMBO, SUEZ. NAPLES, GENOA, ALGIERS,
SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP. AND BREMEN.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Installation.
All Steamers fitted with Laundry.
FARES TO LONDON: 1., £7l/10/-; 11., £4O;
111., £l5 to £l9. RETURN; 1., £lO7/5/-; 11.,
£6O; 111., £3O/12/- to £37/16/
LQIIMANN and CO.. General Agents, 7 Bridge-st.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
i .
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
r AMERICA or EUROPE.
Steamers sail as under (circumstances permitting).
And every 28 days thereafter.
The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
i Australia and Saif 'Frdncisco.
de luxe, with private bath, etc.
tOne, two and threg-berth rodms.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
SCeamers stop 2 days at Wellington and 24 hours
at Papeete—“The Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth & London.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
* Triple-screw Turbine. tNew steamer.
Steamers Fitted with Wireless.
Saloon • FARES— Third-class.
London, from £45. £l6 to £2O.
Capetown and Durban, from £3O. £l3/13 to £l7/17/-
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line,
£llO (First-class, both ways) ; £B2 (Second-class
Orient).
Saloon Return and stop-over tickets interchange-
able with Holt’s Blue Funnel Line. Third-class
Return and stop-over tickets interchangeable with
P. & O. Service.
ROUND-THE-WORLD TICKETS from £122/10/-.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, etc., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY. LTD., Agents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting)
SYDNEY A
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MAC KAY'
TOWNSVILLE
♦CAIRNS
(♦Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).,
NORTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney June 6.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne June 10.
Sydney June 13.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne June 17.
Leaves Sydney June 20.
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports).
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney June 6.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney June 13.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
SEASONABLE ISLAND TOURS.
f
With the advent of the cold weather your are pro-
bably wondering where you can go to escape the
rigors of Winter.
Our ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET will help you
decide this question.
It offers you a SELECTION OF TRIPS to the
more TEMPERATE CLIMES OF THE PACIFIC,
among the most enjoyable being through the
NEW HEBRIDES, with its famous “SING
SING” GROUNDS OF M YLEKULA, the ACTIVE
VOLCANOES OF , TANNA AND LOPE VI, and
many other SCENES and OBJECTS of ABSORB-
ING INTEREST.
Sand for our special Lsadet detailing this most interesting cruise.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge st„ Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALKS.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRKOI'OUSs:
£3,500,000
£2,450,000
£3,500,000
£9,450 OOP
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, lit., M.L.C.,
President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, lit., M.L.O.
Tire Hon. James T. Walker
TtieHion. Edmund W. Eosbery, 0.M.G., M.L.C.
Tl)‘e’ lion. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Alfred George Milson, Esq.; William Harrington Palmer, Lsq.
Head Office-George St.. Sydney. London office 29 Threadneodlo St., E.C.
340 Branches and Agencies in the-Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World. mo wot FnrpiVn Rills
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT Foreign Bills
tßb'world. L '“" S "■ srS™: rnsscH n oSf,JSir?
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up ..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital ..
£1,976,168 15 0
1,680,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
£5,656,168 15 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon H. E. Rater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon' H Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton ; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and Agencies throughout the world.
gank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock
Prefwence Shares
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up ’• • •• ••
Uncalled-. Capital . , • >
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£1,000,000
500,000
500,000
500,000
1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£544,654 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 156,136 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 78,500 0 0
£779,291 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ""
Gen. Man.. Edvvd. D. Dav. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Canncn Street, Condon,
26 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World. '
rrriE Best Stories written in Australia
JL appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price 6d-
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers, 17 knots.
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
SONOMA .. ►. | June 6 j Aug. 1 | Sept. 26 I Nov. 21
VENTURA ... j July 4 j Aug. 29 | Oct. 24 | Pec. 19
The through trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE,
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply—44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s.' 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF P
YOU begin to
*- look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous, A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyen’s
sdf
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives r'ealth to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE >
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY f
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports. )
.S.S. WAN DILL A (8000
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
June C and July 4.
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steerasre Passengers.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
GRANTALA, June 13.
WARILDA (8000 tonal,
June 27 and July 25.
Wireless Telegraphy.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO.. LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WoitLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
*Triple-screw steamer, fitted with cabins-de-luxe en
suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
First Saloon passengers to Honolulu and points
beyond wishing to break journey at New Zealand
may proceed by Intercolonial steamer from Sydney
without extra charge.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM-SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
STEAM TO LONDON AND LIVERPOOL.
T.S.S. ESSEX.
11,000 Tons. CAPTAIN BROWN.
SYDNEY . . about JUNE 10, 1914.
ADELAIDE . . about JUNE 16, 1914.
FARES TO LONDON
Saloon, £4O. Third-Class, £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-
Saloon Fares from Brisbane, £2 extra.
Steerage, '£l/1/- extra.
Saloon accommodation consits of all two-berth
cabins on Upper Deck situated amidships. Well-
lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provi-
sions from cool chamber throughout the voyage.
Electric light throughout. Return- and round-trip
tickets issued via Cape and/or Suez Canal. Prepaid
passages arranged. Fitted with wireless.
For illustrated pamphlets and full information
apply:—
BIRT & COMPANY, LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITII, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne and Newcastle. *
ELDER. SMITH & COMPANY LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modem Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH k ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS,'
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Applv for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All PortSi
When something is wanted
to put on a burn or scald,
to heal a cut, scra'ch,
or skin sore, apply
Calvert’s
Carbolic Ointment
It soon relieves the soreness and pro-
motes a qui k cure, while for a skin
wound especially its antiseptic virtue is
important. On other occasions also
it is useful —for insect bites or stings,
fo eczema, ringworm, ind skm ail-
ments generally—whenever a healing
antiseptic ointment is needed.
Local Stores and Chemists sell it.
Made by F.C.CALVERT&Co., Manchester,Ek&


Hotels. &c.
eorge hotel.
St. Kilda, Melbourne>
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 15 6 per day.
AND UPWARDS.
Tlie Hotel Is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE EAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
lIOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
V
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
/ Blonde, Chestnut
/and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/1t
Directions with every
bottle
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The. Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
[FOR A FAIR
... TRY
DINKUM
THE .. .
QO\
MEZON
Accordeons
The World's Best
35/-, 42/- 63/-
Sole Agent:
LYONS,
Bourkest.,Melb.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
sdf
JBank of Bustralta
SYDNEY
This Bank is open for all classes of GENERAL BANKING BUSINESS a *
STAIMWAY HOUSE, KING STREET, SYDNEY
Also at Newcastle, Broken Hill, Dubbo, Canberra, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Perth, Hobart, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville and London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the worid. Bills negotiated or forwarded for
collection. Banking ana Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom ana abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits
Advances made against approved securities...
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
Central Office: 30 CA3TLEREAQH BTREET (top of Moore Street), SYDNEY*
Branches in the abuve cities and 2,000 Agencies at Post Offices throughout the Commonwealth
Deposits from 1/- to £3OO. Interest at 3% per annum.
Deposits or Withdrawals may be made at any Brancn or Agency within the Commonwealth.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. May, 191 U. DENISON MILLER. Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States,
Healthy anti Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
, „'\“ h !? er l i m , l i leB i l P° ten Uties, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
prospective settler ald'To the lmne^t^voi-ke^ 6 inVeSt ° r ’ the Scientist ’ the tourist ’ the
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
li ranch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
* . - '
Rent Brewery, Sydney
EVERY DAY
WE GET
Letters of Strong Approbation about our
CELEBRATED Fx & R WATCHES.
The latest is as follows:
“I have one of your watches. I have had it
about 17 years, and if'has not even been cleaned.
It has had a lot of fresh glasses, and the pin that
holds the works has been knocked out through
falling out of my 'pocket on to a windmill tower
leg; but it is going all right, and keeping real
good time; in fact, I am wearing it now.”
The watch referred to is one of the 15-jewel, f-plate,
Lever Fx & R Open-faced Oxidised Steel Watches
at 33/-.
They are profoundly accurate, and specially made
for Australian rough bush work.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS Ltd.
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY,
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
Plain Figures +• Strictly Cash.
Gent.'s Full-sized Open-faced/' Fully
Jewelled, J-plate, Lever Watch,
Steel Case, 33/-
sd
Watermans
(Ideal)
Fountainßen
“SAFETY” TYPE
Specially designed for
ladies and travellers, but
popular with all Fountain
Pen users. It can be put
in pocket or bag anyhow,
and will not leak. Simple
in r onstruction and splen-
didly efficient.
Writes immediately the
nib touches the paper.
Nibs to suit all hands.
Sold by Slat/overs and Jewel'ers
ever y whet e .
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, LTD.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, Eng.
Australia: 350, George Street, Sydney.
Write for Booklet, post free.
Queensland Park Caddie
A splendid saddle for general use; Made on best
English tree, with Plated Bars and Double Gullet,
and is built of best material throughout.; "
This saddle has hogskin seat and pads, extra long
flaps, Victoria panel, deep, sweepy seat,’ nickel-plated
4-bar irons, folded girth, £3/19/6 Complete, add
exchange. Mention The Bulletin when ordering.
A surcingle will be given free. This saddle is for-
warded freight paid to any railway station or port,
N.S.W., or any port Queensland. Obtained from
J. P. TAIjTY, Manufacturer, 388 SUSSEX
STREET, SYDNEY.
fsd
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive y«u. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia!
CRANES and PULLEY^BLOCKS
v
Manufactured by Herbert Morris Ltd. (formerly Herbert Morris CEL Baslert Ltd.)
800 CRANES IN STOCK
Ready for Shipment.
■
J
r: -
!■: ■ ''s
f.:
m
i.rl t*
The Quality and Prices are Right.
' J 1 «' -~
*
Complete Illustrated Catalogue of Cranes and BlocKs sent on request.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES- W. will sen 4 » Pulley Block on opprovol \t .or own expense to nn, oser.
HAES & EGGERS LTD.,
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY


K
n
—with character
and distinction
tailored in them
THE
“LEANDER”
SHIRTS
are exclusive, but not expensive.
They are most carefully planned
and needled, to conform to anatomi-
cal correctness
Soft, double cuffs, or stiff laundered
kind, as preferred
Neat stripe ideas, new, but not
obtrusive,
6|6 each: 37/6 for Six.
State your collar size, and have one sent
along first —to try. You may send it
back if it doesn’t please you.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
BRISBANE.
Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, ISth May, 1914.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVAL COL-
LEGE,
Jervis Bay, New South Wales.
Appointment of Naval Instructors/
APPLICATIONS are invited from per-
sons qualified for appointment to the
following positions: —
One Senior Naval Instructor (Mathe-
matics).
One Senior Naval Instructor (English).
One Naval Instructor, to assist in Mathe-
matics, Physics (or Chemistry).
One Naval Instructor, to assist in French
(and English temporarily).
Rates of Pay : Senior Naval Instructor,
£450 per annum, rising to £525 per annum,
by biennial increments of £25; Naval_ In-
structor, £350 per annum, rising to £425 per
annum, by biennial increments of £25.
An allowance of £4O towards cost of uni-
form is made on first appointment,,
:Full particulars may be obtained from
the Naval Secretary, Navy Office, Mel-
bourne ; the Director of Studies, Naval Col-
lege, North Geelons; or from the District
Naval Officer, Brisbane; Edgecliffe, Sydney ;
Port Melbourne; Largs Bay, S.A.; Fre-
mantle, W.A.; and Hobart.
Applications must reach the Naval Sec-
retary. Navy Office, Melbourne, not later
than 20th July, 1914.
S. A. PETHEBRIDGE,
Secretary.
A Hot Weather Trouble Avoided.
TRUMILK (SKIM)
POWDER.
Place Powder on top cold water and beat with Egg Whisk lor a minute. Result-
beautiful milk free from germs, suitable for all purposes.
NO MILK GOING SOUR. NO ICE NEEDED.
Ask your grocer for a small tin. t
Queensland Agents: WEBSTER & CO. LTD., Mary Street, Brisbane.
New South Wales Agents: FOGGITT JONES & CO. LTD., Sussex Street, Sydney.
IN
BANANA LAND
For some time past, the demand for
Queensland sheep country in small areas has
been so persistent that the Government, to
save its face, has had to make some show
of attempting to satisfy the hunger. Some
of the best land had ' been shut up by the
scare legislation of 1902, and, of course,
couldn’t be touched. Most of the other
choice areas are held by absentee or influ-
ential holders. But the Government whirled
round with violence and great show and
laid hands on the holdings' of half a dozen
owners whom it had the least respect for.
It threw a few scraps to the applicants for
earth with the remark, “What.more do you
want?” The applicants replied thus: 713
sent in their names as anxious to accept
three pieces of Portland Downs, and 1182
were willing to take the risk of either of
two pieces of Alice Downs. When the five
MISUNDERSTOOD.
THE VICAR (just about to publish the banns when he suddenly realises that he hasn't the
paper with the names of the parties on it): “I Publish the banns of marnage
between — between"
THE VERGER: " Between the cushion and the seat , sir.”
pieces are allotted, what’s going to happen
to the 1500-odd applicants who stand out?
They can’t all put up at the hotels and wait
till next year or the one following, when it
is understood that Denham will lottery two
or three more selections.
Thomas Mowbray, one of Brisbane’s
quartette of police magistrates, was him-
self cited to appear at a Higher Court on
Saturday last. He hailed from Gympie,
where his father was a Presbyterian meen-
ister. A sister was married to the late
Colonel “Jock” Thomson, a leading Bris-
bane militaire-medico; and a brother, who
was gold-warden at Charters Towers, was
famous for his laugh, beside which that of
Victoria’s Peacock was just a chuckling
circumstance. As P.M. Brother Tom saw
much of North Queensland, and was
esteemed wherever he went as a considerate
and well-balanced dispenser of royal hos-
pitality. According to “service” gossip, his
vacant place will be filled by Harris, P.M.,
now dispensing the law at Toowoomba.
A Message to Ma.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In 1913 the convictions for drunkenness in N. S.
Wales amounted to 28,274. The total offences con-
nected with drink— i.e., drunkenness only and drunk-
enness with disorderly conduct —numbered 32,459.
N. S. Wales is easily the most drunken State in the
Commonwealth.— Brisbane Daily Mail.
Ma, dear !
What is this we hear ?
Drunk some 30,000 times,
Thirty-thousand vinous crimes?
You that mothered most of us,
Blessed us at our exodus —
You your precious wits to muddle
Till a state of chronic fuddle
Makes you wobble on your pegs,
Makes you damn your bloomin’ legs,
While the Boozer’s ruddy rose
Blossoms freely on your nose.
Do you know, dear, where you are?
You —Ma?
Ma, dear!
What a curse is Beer!
Look at all your late finance,
Tripping in a loony dance;
See you running almost daily
To the pop-shop smiling gaily ;
Grog, it seems, has got you down,
Messed your hair and soiled your gown ;
Made you run with ev’ry dawn
Off with something fresh to pawn 1
When we thought you dotty, dear,
Through your antics quaint and queer,
It was just that wretched Beer-
Just Beer!
Ma, dear!
Now it’s coming clear!
You who used to live sedately
Have been madly reckless lately;
Hob-a-nob with Hebrew Aaron,
Calling him your Rose of Sharon,
Almost hourly have we seen you
Letting no one come between you ;
Loans on Friday, loans on Sunday,
Loans again on early Monday;
Just a friendly glass of liquor.
Killed the chance of foolish bicker,
Cleared the air of fuss and foment,
Made the terms of little moment;
Just to think —that deep, designing
Hebrew with his wheedling, whining,
Took advantage in his sleekness
Of our poor old Mater’s weakness!
Now, indeed, it’s coming clear,
Ma, dear!
Ma! Ma!
Pish and Pooh and Bah!
If you can't be mod’rate, sling it,
Drop the poison. Ma. or fling it
In the face of Ikey Mo!
He it is that tempts you so,
Glad to see you holding revel,
Clinking glasses with the Devil;
Glad to see you muddled, mazy,
Till you’re boom-and-borrowing crazy r
Till you’d go it, game and blind.
Slick to Hell to raise the wind ;
Better try another caper,
Live on cash and cut the paper:
Keep off credit —let your throttle
Be a stranger to the bottle.
After all this dreadful riot
What you need is peace and quiet.
Bid the borrowing burst ta-ta,
Troll a sober Tra-la-la,
Take a snell of Rest and Spa.
Please , Ma!
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, May 30, 1914.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
The Chiel has announced that he is leav-
ing here at the end of July, and everyone is
sorry. Also, as there had not previously
been an ornamental grown-up daughter at
Government House since Sir Henry Nor-
man’s daughter was there, the Vision will
be missed. Both his Ex. and Lady Mac-
gregor have taken a genuine interest in the
affairs of this big State, and their courtesy
is unfailing.
We took our principal Empire Day cele-
bration dose at the Exhibition Building dur-
ing the evening, when Governor Macgregor,
Mayor Jenkinson and Alderman Diddams
told us all about the What’s-its-name upon
which the thingumbob never sets. Lady
Macgregor, however, did something useful
when she handed over to the skipper of the
destroyer Warrego two ensigns from the
local section of the Overseas Club. One* °*
course, was J. Bull’s; the other was Aus-
tralia’s glad little bit of bunting.
The same day a Veterans’ dinner was held
at Victoria Barracks, whereat the Mac-
gregor, with the listless Talbot aide m
attendance, passed his compliments to the
old warriors assembled. One, Triton by
name, had seen service on the Coramandel
coast, in the Crimea, the Mutiny and China.
First-Lt. Pellisier fought in Algeria in ’53
and the Crimea a year later. Old Sergeant-
Major Drinnen wore the V.C., which he won
when he was 15, serving outside Delhi.
On Tuesday and Wednesday the Centen-
nial Hall was full of female figures, clad
in garments more or less of “the East,’
the occasion being the hunt for money
for the building of a chapel at the Church
of England Grammar School at Albion. The
Macgregor and his lady were part of the
decorations on the first day, the latter open-
ing the show with a slight detonation of
words. Mayoress Jenkinson was the
central figure on the second day.
Three of the stalls’ crews were cor-
rect as to costume, and the stalls them-
selves striking as to arrangement. One
crew, representing Egyptian water-carriers,
was supervised by Mrs. Gordon Gall; an
Arabian stall was run (the speed of some
stalls would take your breath away at times,
Thargomindah) by Mrs. Morgan Baker, the
pretty and popular wife of the burly master
of St. John’s; and the third was managed
by Mrs. sub-Dean P,atinson. She ( and her
assistants wore the flowing robes and jam-
pot hats of Palestine.
On Wednesday evening Leila Cecilia,
daughter of Captain and Mrs. Hinton, took
for better or otherwise Hugh Roberts, who
originally hailed from Tasmania. Same
morning barrister Jack Woolcock and
Ida Withrington got through their fuss and
responses at St. John’s Cathedral, and then
left for the Tweed.
Two new engagements have provided this
hamlet with a topic of conversation. One
concerns “Chum” Crouch and a Maoriland
girl; the other is no secret between popular
pianiste Lucy Baker and one Levy, of Sin-
gapore.
The racecourse to-day was packed to the
stable doors. The Chiel, Lady Mac. and the
Vision were there, supported by the moral
influence of Captain Talbot and Captain
Foxton. The cheery Lumley Hill dame
occupied a perch in the vice-regal cage, as
did Mrs. Burt, Mrs. D. R. Eden, Mrs.
Charlie Morris and pretty little Mrs. Wil-
liam Collins. The wives and daughters of
the squattocracy filled at least one-third of
the grandstand, and their clothes caused the
local rag-paraders to gnash the gnash of
envy. Songstress Ella Caspars, under little
Miss O’Shea’s kindly wing; strolled about
the lawn in a dark-blue satin broch6 garment,
which was sharply eyed by Every woman. 1
can say no more without being unduly com-
plimentary. It was draped, slightly and
very subtly, .and had absolutely no trimming
save a folded white vest.
To-night Miss Caspers is unpacking her
fine contralto voice at the Exhibition Hall.
The Brisbane Austral Choir ga.ve a con-
cert on Tuesday; night. The insistent um-
brella and large, noisy palms of the populace
in the back seats dragged the programme
out to an unholy length, but otherwise the
proceedings were orderly. Mrs. Gilbert
Wilson was the soloist, and, as usual, car-
ried off the bulk of the distributed vegeta-
tion.
The old girls and elderly boys of the Bris-
bane Grammar Schools had a pleasant littie
hop on Thursday night. There were omy
about four matrons present, of whom two
were Mrs. Bousfield, in violet mnon, and
Mrs. Lukin, in a gown in tones of brown
and tangerine. Incidentally, I did wish that
flappers of both sexes wouldn’t stand round
chewing gum. If this habit continues, the
little Willies and Millies of the next genera-
tion will all wear the bulged jaw, and most
of them will have adenoids to burn.
The Queensland Ladies’ Kennel Club fare-
welled its departing secretary, Miss Midglej,
on Tuesday night. She is off holidaying to
America soon, and a new 'autograph book,
with silver-bound covers, will help to cheer
her up.
Police-Magistrate Mowbray dropped dead
at his home at Auchenflower this morning.
Mrs. Mowbray is a daughter of the late
Arthur Macalister, once Premier of Banana -
land, and there are tons of sympathy coming
to her on the loss of her level-headed hus-
band. „„ , .
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
. , , With
George Byrne, chronicled as being, with
Mrs. and Miss Byrne, among the few res-
cue(j f rom the Empress of Ireland, is a Bris-
baneite of long standing—a barrister who
<}oes no t extract fees, but draws rents from
c j ty prope rty. The family is an old Queens-
a*** ** **•.
lacing.
“Rangan” : Rockhampton annually handies
150,000 bales of some of the best wool in the
world, but when it commences to talk sen-
gibl about the establishment of wool sales,
Brisbane pours on its bead such t.torrent
of abuse for daring to compete with it, anu
having the audacity to expect woolbuyers to
g 0 “ away up there,” that Rockhampton shuts
. steam 0 g a nd continues sending its
OQOO b j t 0 the cap i ta l. This writer,
knows them, reckons that woolbuyers
"jj w through the gates of Sheol to buy
J e off Beelzebub’s flock of picked black
sheep if the duality were guaranteed.
The Morgans, who have hung their hats up
in tbe office 0 f t he Warwick Argus for
nearly 50 years have sold that fine little
country paper. Deputy-Gov. Arthur was the
senior partner, with his two sons as juniors,
and be pro basjly came to the conclusion, in
of tbe Macgregor’s approaching de-
parture, that their Majesties’ temporary rep.
shouldn’t be connected with a more-or-less
party newsp p


FREE
OFFE
Any “De Reszke” Cigarette'
smoker can obtain FREE
this poster bv the famous
French artist “Rilette.” This
picture contains no reading
or advertising matter, and
is printed in colors on art
paper in a size suitable for
framing. To obtain same
send the lid of a box of
“De Reszke” Cigarettes with
2d. in stamps (for postage
and packing) to W. E.
Craven & Co., 222 Clarence
Street, Sydney, N.S.W., stat-
ing picture No. 1.
w
/ ■ * ; '-X%,
m
I
1
Ik ,»’?
I
, ri *
RILELT T E-.
IN England “De Reszke Cigarettes outsell all
other high-priced brands. This is no stroke
of good fortune—it is no chance happening—but the
outcome of superior quality
The “De Reszke * Cigarettes are smoked by England’s
Aristocracy— it has been said that the ‘Blue Book ’ —the
book which contains the names of everyone who, socially
speaking, is anyone—forms a very good Directory of “De
Reszke smokers.
Supplied by Royal Warrant to H M. King Alfonso XIII. of
Spain, “De Reszke ” Cigarettes are also the favoured brand
or HR H Prince Louis of Battenberg, HI H. the Grand
Duke Michael of Russia. H R.H the Duke of Sparta, and
-a host of other notabilities
WE have been told that Australians will buy
any kind of Cigarette—that quality doesn’t
count. Frankly, we don t believe it.
Our convictions are that Australians are just as
keen on superior quality as the connoisseurs of
England. And judging by the way “De Reszke ” Cigar-
ettes have been taken up by the leading Stores, it is
evident that Australian Tobacconists think so too.
It has been said that you wont recognise a good Cigarette
when you get one—but we believe you will. Will you help
us to prove who is right by buying a box of De Reszkes, *
and comparing them with the brand you usually smoke.
The “De Reszke ” Cigarettes you buy in your own Store are identical in every way with those
that are sold in England. They are made in the same factory of the same tobacco by the same
workers, and reach you in exactly the same condition as the smoker in England receives them.
Two Kinds—One Quality only— The Best
10 25 50 100
TurKishf Basso (extra large) ... ... 3/6 7/- 147-
in 3 > i Tenor (larg'e) ... ••• ••• 1 h 2/6 5/- 10/-
sizes L Soprano (ladies) ••• 1/- 2/6 5/- 10/-
Am eric an—one size only ••• ••• */9 W°' 4 3,9 7,6
De ReszKe Cigarettes may be obtained from tbe following:
N. S. WALES REPRESENTATIVES:—
H. W. GILLES & CO., 222 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Abrahams, L., Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Aitken, A., Broadway, Glebe, Sydney.
Australia Hotel Ltd., Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Brown, Fred, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Cato. E. J., 423 George Street, Sydney.
Civil Service Co-operative Society, Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Clark, E., 167 King Street, Sydney.
Campbell, G. A., Hunter Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
Callaghan, E., Wentworth Falls, N.S.W.
Farmer & Co. Ltd.. Pitt Street, Sydney.
Fitzmaurice, Mrs. E., Neutral Bay Wharf, Sydney.
Hayne’s Drug Store Ltd., King and Elizabeth Streets,
Sydney.
Jones, David, Ltd., George Street, Sydney.
Kleisdorff, R., & B7 King Street, Sydney.
Kleisdorff, R., & Co., 47 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Kebblewhite, A., 19 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Lassetter & Co., F., Ltd., George Street, Sydney.
Larsen & Co., 99 King Street. Sydney.
Lind & Co., E. F., 280 and 398 George Street, Sydney
Marks, A. A., 376 George Street, Sydney; and
Branches: Cr. King and Pitt Streets, Sydney ;
177 Oxford Street, Sydney; 97a Darlinghurst
Road, Sydney; 269 King Street, Newtown, Syd-
ney.
Mole & Saxon, 239 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Muir, W. F., 34 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Morris, H., Macquarie Place, Sydney.
McGee, A. A., 6 & 7 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co. Ltd;, Ferry Wharves, Sydney.
Paris House Ltd, Phillip Street, Sydney. >
Pacific Hotel, Manly, Sydney?*^
Prescott, T. S., & Co., 17 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Prior Bros., 317 George Street, Sydney.
Silversides & Co., 1 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Solomon, A. M., 173 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Simmons Ltd., Mick, Haymarket, and Branches,
Sydney.
Williams, J. W., The Corso, Manly, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND REPRESENTATIVES
SHORT & WILKINS, 465 GEORGE STREET, BRIS-
BANE.
Black, R , Queen Street, Brisbane.
Cavill, Jim, Edward Street. Brisbane.
Costa, C. P., Queen Street, Brisbane.
Cooper, S., George Street, Brisbane.
Downs, J., Edward Street, Brisbane.
Finney, Isles & Co. Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane. '
Foord, W., Queen Street, Brisbane.
Kinps, Cairns, Queensland.
Macintyre, D., Queen Street,. Brisbane. > , ,
Spurgin, C. A., Queen Street, Brisbane.
Thompson, P., Rockhampton, Queensland.
VICTORIAN REPRESENTATIVES'
G. DAMMAN & CO., COLLINS and SWANSTON
STREETS. MELBOURNE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:—
WM. CORNELL & CO., 55 RUNDLE STREET,
ADELAIDE. t
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES
SAUNDERS & NATHAN, 729 HAY STREET. PERTH.
If any difficulty in obtaining
De ReszKe Cigarettes please write to
W. E. CRAVEN &. CO., 222 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
_ . ' ‘ ‘ * - ■- • I ■’/. . '’■ ‘■•l
o
Deßeszke
n
I ru/itr't 44 Vtrfiling AgtrtCf,


Bronchial
T roubles
are dangerous to adults, but
doubly dangerous to young
children. Yet, bronchitis is
preventable. A course of
SCOTT’S Emulsion prevents
colds or stops the cold
from reaching the bronchial
mucous membrane. The
constant winter danger of
colds, coughs, sore throat
and serious illness can best
be avoided by building up
every part of the body with
scorn
Emulsion
1874
1914
a
«
Imitations lead to disappoint-
ment and despair. Insist on
genuine SCOTT’S—with the
fishman on the package.
LACTOBACILLIN E.
The Bacillary treatment of Bacterial and Fermen-
tative affections of the alimentary canal. Lactobacil-
line pits the vigorous lactic ferment against the
less resistant organisms of decomposition, with the
result that the latter are immediately destroyed.
Lactobacilline is prepared under the scientific
supervision and control of
PROFESSOR METCHNIKOFF.
It is prepared in tablets to be eaten with meals,
and by checking intestinal putrefaction exerts a
remarkable influence towards the attainment of
perfect health. It is of special value in all affec-
tions of the digestive tract, auto-intoxication, colites,
intestinal catarrh, chronic dyspepsia, etc. Every
cylinder of tablets bears the words:
“Lactobacilline preparee par la Societe le Ferment
Seul Fournisseur du Professor Metchnikoff,’’ with-
out which none are genuine. Lactobacilline is sold
in boxes containing eight cylinders of Tablets—price,
ss. 6d. —and can be ordered through any chemist, or
obtained direct from the DepOt Societe le Ferment,
Australasia Chambers, 406-14 Queen St., Brisbane, or
Branches: Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt St., Sydney;
Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen St., Melbourne; Eller-
shaw’s Buildings, Cliff St., Fremantle; Smeeton’s
Buildings, Queen St., Auckland; from where all
information can be obtained.
TRADE
MARK
Any Dentist will tell Yon
that unless your artificial teeth are kept
perfectly clean they will destroy your
remaining natural teeth.
DENSO
Prepared from a leading dentist’s pre-
scription ; it will make your teeth com-
' fortable, and free them from all germs
and injurious deposits. [3
Price : 1/6 & 2/6 post free.
Send One Penny Stamp jor Sample ,
J. M. Wilkes 8 Co., Alphington, Melb., Vic.
LANCASTER’S
High=class Guns & Rifles.
On view at Sole Agents—
HERBERT OXLEY & CO.
26 Strand Arcade, Queen Street,
AUCKLAND, N.Z.,
from whom full particulars and catalogues can
be obtained free by post.
CHARLES LANCASTER & CO. Ltd.
Gunmakers to H.M. King George V., 11 Panton
Street, Haymarket, London, Eng. (Est. 1826)
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Fife Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Hands, or on the Security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New
Zealand. LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any flue.
Directors The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; The Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black,M.L.C. : The Hon. F. E. Winehombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
Knox Esq K.C. ; Sir Alex. MacCormick, M.D. General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teece, F.1.A.,
F.F.A., F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Play
Free
/.•V
Vf:
f fs
ff/A
ssm
Most Famous Sliding Cord \
Brace in the World
It' . Sold Everywhere
r J // **k,
'4 2
<lOll
©
a.V?
GuaranlcedyS?
Gef the Genuine
DUPLEX
Musi 6e Stamped
on Buckle.
If you want the very best
FLANNELETTE
the Old Country Produces
b„, HORROCKSES'
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON SELVEDGE
and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS. 1
f
A SENSE of satisfaction is experienced
every time one wears a pair of Rostock
boots, and from this consciousness of
their fine quality springs a natural and legiti-
mate pride. One feels that they will con-
tribute to ease and elegance on the most
exacting occasions, and one knows that theii
high quality will be recognised every time
they are handled. This sense of satisfaction
is the inevitable effect of the choice leather
and beautiful work so conspicuous in every
pair of Rostocks. They are the cream of
imported boots.
Special shipments have recently arrived at
the leading stores, and ladies should call
before the choicest styles are sold.
■
HI
Styl
606
807
THE
A'
sSSmS-A J
. :-sf.
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
Molbourns.
ESTABLISHED 1858.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street,
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund : £500,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £<10,404.
Directors- JOHN GRICE, Esq., Chairman; H. M. STRACHAN Esq., Yl^' C * ai ™^"
TRENCHARD, Esq.; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. H. M REFORD. Esq.
SYDNEY OFFICE, CO PITT STREET. Manager, R. S. Gregson; Acct., F. Cleave.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New fc>out Vales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgate, E.C.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MSS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
W.H.T.: Tom Collins’s “Such is Life’’
was published in 1903. Copies are still available....
Transome: Send it along. Don’t be nervous. If there
is any hope in it, no bricks will be thrown. Pro-
mising contributors are too welcome for that....
My First Trial: Our candid opinion of the gag for
drawing as\ requested—it is putrid.... Oreegulla:
They’re not your efforts at a 11... .L.M.A.: Don’t re-
member it. Who was the man who allegedly an-
swered the apt problem with a solution of copper?
Let him produce the evidence... .Bella Eve: If the
prawns were anything like your verse, he’s
dead by n0w....W.8.: You could probably
get some sound advice on that subject from
H. E. Pratten, Jamieson-street, Sydney... .J.K.: The
story of Henare and his horse has seen too much hard
service. It has travelled a long way since it ap-
peared in a bygone Bulletin, and it may have been a
sore-hoofed wanderer even then... . Bubbanooka : A
creepy, footless sort of thing. Why write (badly)
about dead bodies when there are roses to write about ?
.... Sen: That person passed out some years ago. The
cause of death was Tight's Disease... .E.C.H.
(M.L.) : Not acquainted with it. . . .N.lt.H. (V.):
That rural poem has a strong American flavor. The
old side porch, the old man a-sittin’ there an’
watchin’ the “pasture” and the waggon-loads of chil-
dren going to church —all these things seem very
magaziny. Then there is the milk and honey and
nutmeg decoction “with a whisper of apple-jack,”
and the promised feast of chicken and rabbit and
apple pie. . Would any Australian offer a prospective
guest rabbit as a delicacy? Where did you get all
this “local color” ? Speak up so that everybody can
hear you !... .C.D C. (V.): Your pen is a bit green,
and the opening of the yarn recalls one of Stephen
Crane’s stories. ...M.A.R. (V.): Not our sort of
yarn. Try one of the Melbourne weeklies. . . .On-
looker : It’s poor verse tainted with free advt.- —a
terrible mixture Billie: Weak-tea verse C.J.H.
(W.A.) : Keep it .for 10 yea?s and then look at it
with a calm, dispassionate eye.'*.,Lucy M. A.: “The
Stream of Kisses,” “The Cape of Cuddling,” “The
Bay of Love,” “A boat'full of babies” ! Look here,
young lady, if you go on like that Henry James
James and his Babette will get out of their double-
bed and unite in throwing that notorious piece of
furniture at you Tinribs: Stove in Hibiscus:
Poem wafted out Harold B. W. (V.): You have
missed the ’bus of circumstance.... Cannibal: Do
you think you could swallow your own poem? We
can’t. .. .C.P.S.: Story doesn’t get u 5.... Don M.:
Amateurish work ’Erbert A.: Not humorous—
merely ungrammatical E.A.A.: Verses not for
print. .'. .R.H.: Dream verses ihore of a nightmare.
G.C. (Tas.) : “Tramp” and “Moronev” fail, but the
humorous one has been revised slightly and reserved
for a second reading. .. .Achene: Sometimes the letter
containing an amendment of verses already submitted
overtakes the original communication on the way to
acceptance, and sometimes rushes into the office
tomb and flings itself on the cold bosom of a
deceased poem. Don’t remember exactly, but fancy
vour poem was funeralled. < The letter has been
handed to the curator of the cemeterv.... Harry L.
F.: Your letter:—
Dear Sir, —To morrow being “Empire Day” I will
deem it a favor if you will kindly insert the enclosed
lines which I have composed, and think they will be
appropriate for the day we celebrate, viz., Empire
Day.—Yours faithfully, ——.
Your poem:—
TO MOTHERLAND.
Australia to-day doth send united wishes from this
end
To Motherland.
Accept our heartfelt thanks to-day, may God protect
us on our way,
To Motherland.
United efforts we will keep, to guide our destiny and
Fleet
To Motherland.
Thanks be to thee O Mother dear for thy Protection,
hear us cheer
To Motherland.
From Afric’s Shore to Erin’s Isle may peace and
happiness beguile
To Motherland.
The Flag to-day we do uphold, Australia prizes more
than gold.
Our duty let us not forget, remember fve are children
yet
To Motherland.
One Flag, One Destiny to maintain, so let us true
as steel remain
To Motherland.
It’s a bit late, but a poem like that makes the blood
boil and keeps the feet warm. We expect people to
rise in trams and cheer madly when they read it....
Sydney J.: On the first page of your love-tale the
sub-editor found that the hero staited his Vetter to
the heroine, “Beautiful Toodles.” He said he would
rather resign his job thar. reach further. Couldn’t
you make the girl Plain Toodles, or Common Toodles,
or even Ordinary Toodles, to prevent dissension in
the happy family? This staff is a happy family ex-
cept when love-stories about Toodles come to hand.
Why Toodle ? There is no money in it. You would
make more at boot-repairing. . . .Reeder: See any
reputable physician.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F. 0.2.: Every acceptable idea for a page car-
toon is worth a guinea at least. But don’t risk losing
the guinea-at-least by fooling round for a few days
while you draw something. Send the idea and let the
artist worry out the drawing.
Mrs. Campbell, who is a sister of the late
Captain Scott, has been wandering through
Maoriland for a week or two visiting friends
of her famous brother and gazing upon the
various and numerous memorials that have
been rushed up to him and his companions.
She finished up by going to see the fine
cairn erected above Port Chalmers, which
was the last port visited by the Antarctic
explorer.
“Y.Z.”: I have been inspecting the bust
of the late £. £. Smith, conspicuous in Melb.
Exhibition Gardens, raised on an elaborate
pedestal, and from an art point of view just
about worthy of the cause. A lot of people
thought £. £. a distinguished citizen, and
there seems to be no- stopping a bunch of
ratepayers who are bent upon raising a
stone monument to a late lamented chum.
The inscription on double £’s bust should
have been “He was a pal o’ mine.” Why
not introduce some rule, regulation or law
declaring that the size of a public monu-
ment shall be in proportion to the merits
of deceased? A committee of artists and
sane citizens should be appointed to give the
importance of the subject in square or cubic
inches, and monuments might fie as large
as possible and as small as could be. In
these circumstances many public monuments
in Melbourne would be invisible to the
naked eye; but, after all, isn’t that what we
- desire? Under the conditions mentioned an
£. £. Smith’s statue would not be discernible
to the thousands who don’t want to see it,
while the half-dozen who do could always
carry their own microscopes.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“ THE. CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
Harry Lauder
Melodies
sound best on
it
CRACKAJACK
Mouth Organs
They ARE the Top Notchers.
They ARE made of the Best
Material Obtainable.
They ARE the Best.
Made in Six Styles.
PROFESSIONAL 3/- DOUBLE 1/-
SENIOR 2/- BOSS CRACKER 1/-
JUNIOR 1 /6 CADET -/6
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
SEND FOR FREE BOOKLET, No. 7.
X
Silver-Toned
MELBA
Accordsons
Are unsurpassed
for their beau-
tiful quality of
tone,’obtained by
the use of a
superior quality
of metal in the
reeds.
For Picnics,
Dances,
Accompaniments
PRICES.
7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 17/6 to 42/-
WRITE FOR OUR NEW CATALOG.
SOLE WHOLESALE AGENTS:
“j&a/tsT
Melbourne, Bendigo, Adelaide, Geelong.
■V P
m
lAt
iiSmn
In the
morning
it is such an easy matter to get
your teeth ready to be seen,
when you use
Calvert's'
Tooth fonder
“ and of course, the same
thorough antiseptic cleansing
is just as necessary
again at night.
Sold by local Chemists and Stotes.
Made by
F C. CALVERT & CO.,
MANCHES. ER,
Eng.
sd
COOKE’S
PATENT
REVERSIBLE
LEVEL
Specially designed with two objects in view:
first, to afford an easy, efficient, and at ali
times available means of adjusting the line of
collimation of the telescope to perfect perpen-
dicularity to the vertical axis of the instrument;
and, secondly, to obtain a form of construction
in which elegance and great compactness are
attained and strength and rigidity secured.
Pamphlet describing construction, and on the
adjustment of above on application.
A. P. GREENFIELD & 00. LTD.,
189 George Street, Brisbane,
Sole Australian Agents.
fsd
Three
Sizes
of
VA,2
334 H. P.
Make Your Rowboat Self-Propelled
by attaching the
EVINRUDE
Detachable Rowboat Motor
The Evinrude Motor, attached at the stern of
any rowboat or canoe, will give all the service
and pleasure of efficient Motor-Boating. For
cruising up the river or around the coast.
For conveying cargo quickly at small cost. It
economizes space, being attached outside the rowboat,
and can be easily taken off without harm to the wood-
work and used on any other boat.
25,000 Satisfied Users. 9 Governments have
adopted the Evinrude Motor after rigid tests.
It is operated by Petrol (gasoline),
with battery ignition or MAGNETO,and
automatic lubrication. Steered by pro-
peller—no rudder required, but supplied if
desired. Reversible. Fully guaranteed.
MELCHIOR, ARMSTRONG and DESSAU,
Dept. D-12, 116 Broad Street, New York, U.S.A.
Descriptive Booklet Post Free from
Controlling: Representative for Australasia and New Zea-
land, H. A. GODDARD, Dept. D-12, 88 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne; Dept. D-12, 194 Vickery’s Chambers, Pitt Street,
Sydney; Dept. D-12, 3 Australasia Chambers, Queen Street,
Brisbane. Local Agents: H. Kennedy, Dept. D-12, Broome, W.A.; C.
Shaw & Co., Dept. D-12, Perth, W.A. Agents wanted in unallotted
Apply, 11. A. GODDARD, Brisbane.
J. Eller-
territory.
\
fds
f
Tm an Old Hand
And you can take it from me, thapt
Ranks’ is the place for the Tools In
our Line. You set the Most Reliable
Makes, the Most Up-to-date Ideas, and
you don’t have to pay too much for
them. I believe in the Best, ; and
Always Get Satisfaction in going
there.”
•SO SAYS THE ENGINEER.
HERE’S A LINE OR TWO.
ELECTRICIANS’ INSULATED PLIERS.. 2/-
KLECTRIOIANS’ INSULATED SCREW-
DRIVERS 1/4
TAPE MEASURES, in case, 66ft., from 1/6
EXTENSION HACK SAWS.
STOCKS AND DIES FROM BEST MAKERS.
FILES FOR SHARPENING METAL-CUTTING
SAWS.
WRENCHES FOR ALL PURPOSES.
TINMAN’S STAKES AND BTCK IRONS.
EMERY WHEELS, BRASS FITTINGS, TUBE AND PIPE OF ALL KINDS, etc., etc.
SOME BARGAINS IN LATHES.
John Danks & Son Propty., Ltd.,
324 Pitt Street, near Liverpool Street, Sydney.
Also at 391 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
The Big'Chief
Merry-maker
You get Lauder to perfection—with all
the tire, and swing, and accent —when
you hear his quaint Scotch songs ren-
dered by
“His Master’s Voice”
Records
There are fifty-one of them. Think
of the selection you can make. Every
one is a masterpiece of musical merri-
ment. No records are so true to life
as “His Master’s Voice” —they are the
world’s BEST.
Special List of Lauder records, instru-
ment catalogue, and name bf nearest
accredited dealer on request.
Sole Concessionaires for
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 PITT STREET
SYDNEY.
HARRY LAUDER.
iou know it by this
“His Master’s Voice
sdf
We Want
to Send You
a copy of our Shoe Catalog, which
illustrates the latest styles in Abbey
Shoes—the footwear for men who
care. Write to-day for a copy.
The illustration shows a very choice
Patent Button Boot, dull calf legs.
27/6.
In high-grade Glace Kid, 257-
In half-sizes and quarter fittings.
Postage 9d. extra.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
v Experience Proves
▼ the Value of
<◄◄4l
Solomon
Solution
' ->►»
to Horse Owners.
"Sebastopol.
“We have used SOLOMON
SOLUTION for a number of years
for Sore Backs Girth and
Collar Galls—Greasy Heels—
and all kinds of wounds and
sprains in Horses and Cattle
We have great pleasure in re-
commending it, as no stable
should be without it.”
(**nied)
D. HAnrahan & Sons,
Dairymen.
Large Jars 5/- from Chemists.
Stores and Saddlers everywhere
or post free for 5/6 from
SOLOMON COX & SON,
439 Bourke St., Melbourne
L.R.W.
:7r~T3€tß€iEEE:(
>►►►
CHALLENGE.
MURPHY CHALLENGES THE WORLD
TO CURE' INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL
BLEEDING PILES.
Permanent Cure. Established 1891.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS, NON-
APERIENT,
have cured thousands of cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made-and Sold by
ANDREW MURPHY, WOY WOY,
, N.S.W., Sole (Proprietor.
Price 3/- jier box, or a Course of 8
boxes £l. All postage free.
On Sale by all Druggists, Chemists and Store-
keepers throughout the States.
"THE LONE HAND, Bound Volume, Nev- Series,
1 No. I—including Colored Cove’s —IS NOW
READY. Orders for same will be treated in order
of priority. Price: Bound Volumes, 7/6; Binding
Covers, 2)6.


Amusements.
Rickards’ tivoej theatre, Sydney.
(Governing Director: HUGH D. McINIOSII.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
SPECIAL ADA REEVE MATINEES,
WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY AT 2.30.
ADA REEVE.
ADA REEVE.
The Greatest Comedienne in the World.
Supported by Full Company of World’s Star Artists.
P Box Plan: THEATRE & NICHOLSON S.
Tivoli theatre, melbocrne.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINIOSII.
AY C FIELDS, the Silent Humorist.
THE ELLIOTT SAVON AS,
“In their Palace of Orpheus.”
FD E FORD “The Australian Sundowner.
DUSTY RHODES, “The Caruso of Vaudeville.”
THE GILLS, Star Tangoists.
WINIFRED WARD, The Immaculate Boy.
THE SCIIENTONS. VALLECITA’S LEOPARDS.
Plan at Allan’s. .PRICES—4s., 3s/, 25., Is.
ARTISTS APPEARING AT
Tivoli thea t r e, Adelaide
THIS WEEK.
GILDAY & FOX, Hebrew Character Comedians.
SALINGER & HAMILTON. IRMA CARON.
.GERTRUDE GEBEST. CLARDY BROS.
THE SIX CAMERONS.
THE ELWOODS. LAZERN.
HENNESSY & MARTELL.
rIVOLI T II E A T K IS. P E R X H.
HARRY RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
SAM STERN. THE TWO BOBS.
TUCKER. THE CREOS. ROSA ROMA.
TWO PIIILMERS. ALEX. BLACK.
WELCH & CARBASSE. GABRTELLE HOPE.
AMY ROCHELLE. ARDO.
TOM DAWSON. BENSON & BELLE.
PRICES: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. NO EXTRA FEES.
H**
MAJESTY’S, S Y D N E Y.
Direction .). C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS.
The Biggest, Brightest and Breeziest of all
Pantomimes,
THE FORTY, ..THIEVES.
Written by Frank Dix, Music by Andrew MacCunn.
Whoops! Let’s See It Again.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
Til E A 'l' It E It OY A 1.. SYDN IS V.
Lessees, J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
Sole Direction
J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES, SATURDAYS and WEDNESDAYS.
J. & N. TAIT present
II AR R Y LAUDER
and his company of International Artists.
PLANS AT NICHOLSON’S.
AI) ELI* II I THEAT It E. SYDN IS Y.
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY. LTD.
Last Two Nights of
FROM CONVENT TO THRONE.
SATURDAY, JUNE 6.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC
COMBINATION, in
THE GIRL WHO TOOK THE
WRONG TURNING.
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Nicholson’s.
Amusements.
P AI,A C 15 TIIISA T It 15. SV!>N K V.
Direction DIX & BAKER LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
A Brilliant Combination of Dramatic Artists,
Featuring
ETHEL BUCKLEY.
in
BESS O E A K IZO N A.
A Drama of the Great Wild West.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND HOLIDAYS.
ATIO.N'AL AM PHITHEAT RE. SYDNEY.
Governing Director: BEN J. FULLER.
FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE CIRCUIT.
EVERY NIGHT, AT 8.
BOGUES (George) & OLIVOTTI (Eva)
in a Musical Comedy Skit—“A Wager.”
THE VARDELLS. RAY DE VERE.
IRVINE HAYMAN & CO.
LARGAY & SNEE. GEORGE ROWLEY.
JEWELL & JORDON.
PRICES as usual. Plan at Theatre.
Til E LI T T I-i E THEA T It E
CASTLEIIEAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
MR. HUGH BUCKLER and MISS VIOLET PAGET
in Sheridan’s Famous Comedy,
THE SCHOOL FOR SCANDAL.
Box Plan, Paling’s ; Day Sales, White Rose, Pitt St.
Prices —65., 45., 2s. Is.
IMPERIAL, SALON DE LUXE.
■ Direction: BENDRODT & IRVING.
WHERE DANCING THRIVES
EVERY AFTERNOON
and
EVERY EVENING.
THE FINEST BALLROOM IN AUSTRALASIA.
’Phone, 682 William Street.
Amusements.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
The picture block theatres.
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYRIC, COLONIAL. EMPRESS.
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs’ of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager,
-J- H E OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S IMCTI 11LS, LTD.
”15KST OF AM..”
FAMILY MATI N E E—S ATU RI) AY.
DE GROEN’S VICE REGAL ORCHESTRA.
3d. to 2s. Plans at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
QLACIA R I U M, SYDNEY.
Til R 10 H-SKA.TI IS G SEASON
ATTRACTIVE EXHIBITIONS OF FANCY SKATING
BY INTERNATIONAL SKATERS.
DAILY SESSIONS.
10 to 12 a.m. 3to 5 p.m. Bto 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION 2/- SKATES 6d.
’Phone. Globe 492. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
g PEN C K R’S LYCE U M, SYI)N E Y.
THE WORLD’S~BEST PICTURES.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE—WEDNESDAY, AT 2.30.
A GREAT PROGRAMME, consisting of TOPICAL.
DRAMATIC, SCENIC and COMEDY SUBJECTS.
Prices i 1/6, 1 1- Si 6d. Plan at Paling's & White Rose.
sd
fsd
MY WORD
THAT’S EASY!
Such is the exclamation of the man who
uses a
“Plum” Razor — 10/6.
There is merit in the “Plum” Razor that
makes it a pleasure to use. The blade is
made from finely-tempered steel that keeps
a keen edge indefinitely.
You can always depend upon an easy
shave when you use a “Plum.”
PROVE IT— ORDER ONE TO-DAY -10/6, Post Free.
We keep it in perfect order for two years,
free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6. i,
Pair in Double Case, 21/- t;
Single Razor, Ivory Handle,
15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
All the Above Post Free.
Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG &. AITKE*.
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY-
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
Amusements.
THE KING’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
* Sole Lessee and Manager: Wii.i.iam Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
Reappearance of William. Anderson’s Famous Dramatic
Organisation in
THE FACE AT THE WINDOW.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
H ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
First Production in Melbourne of the Sensational Play,
SEALED OIIDE R. S .
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 65., 45., 2s. and Is.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, L%p.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
Reappearance of FRED NIBLO and JOSEPHINE
COIIAN, in
KEY Ell SAY DIE.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls. 6/-;
Stalls. 4/-; Gallery. 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
Managing Director: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
First Production in Australia of the charming
American Play,
TII E R 0 S A li. Y.
Prices: 5/-, 3/-. 2/- and 1/-, Plan at Pianola.
g 1,1 O U T IIEATIi E. M E L B O U R N E.
FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE CIRCUIT.
BRENT HAYES, Star Ran joist.
GARDINER'S MANIAC BULLDOGS.
WESTON’S LIVING MODELS.
TROUT AND HIS MERMAID.
“MAGPIES” LADIES’ ORCHESTRA.
WOODWARD AND PAGE, Trick Cyclists.
MAY BRILLIANT, Charming Comedienne.
POPULAR PRICES.
OI YMI’ I A. 'OLYM P I A.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S /PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT. PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8,
lAIK S T’S PALACE. MELBOURNE.
the-'best WEST’S PlCTUEESthebest
OF ALL LIMITED. OF ALL
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays.
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the Wort,!).
PRE-EMINENT'IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Anv Moving Picture Worthv of Note always to be seen
at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
THE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price 6d.
Always Specify
SIEMENS
f , . '
% : ■ ■ -V " •
EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL
and so ensure
; | , I
\\ t . * r
Economy, Efficiency, Reliability.
SIEMENS BROTHERS DYNAMO WORKS Ltd.
SYDNEY : 42 Bridge Street. MELBOURNE : 49-51 William Street.
, ;)1 Telegraphic Address : SIEMENS, Sydney or Melbourne.


PROMOTE
HAIR GROWTH
CUTICURA
SOAP
And Cuticura Ointment
They do much for irri-
tated, itching scalps,
dandruff and dry, thin
and falling hair, and do
it speedily, agreeably
and economically.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold throughout
the world. A liberal sample of each, with 32-page
booklet on the care and treatment of the skin and
scalp, sent post-free. Address R. Towns &Co ,
Sydney. N.S. W.
Clogged-Up Liver
Causes Headache
It’s a foolish proceeding to suffer from
constipation, sick headache, biliousness,
dizziness, indigestion and
kindred ailments when
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS will
end all misery in
a few hours.
Purely vege-
table. Act
gently on
liver and
bowels.
fs
Carters
■ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The GENUINE must bear signature
df
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
age, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. B.
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. 8. ALLEN S <u.s.a.)
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suitable
for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
f*~“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAU, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney. Sole Ae nts for Ans>rilin.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
CALIFORNIA
Corrugated Culverts.
MADE ONLY OF PUREST IRON.
i)o iiot bother any more with concrete <jr wooden cuiverts; concrete
culverts crack and require skill to instal: wooden culverts may rot or be
burned out;
■ ■ zmmfc
THE CALIFORNIA CORRUGATED CULVERT is easily fixed, carries
any load, combines all the requisites of permanent work, and gives you
greater confidence the more you use it.
TRY ONE, any size, 12in. to 84in. dia. It will not cost you much.
Sole Agents :
GIBSON, BATTLE & GO. Ltd.
535 Kent Street, Sydney. 486 Collins Street, Melbourne
sd
A HOME FOR
MELBOURNE GUESTS.
¥
Corner Flinders Street
and Spencer Street,
MELBOURNE
Sir Charles Hotham Hotel
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
3>WA
POWNTPBN
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only) :
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney
fsd
Hunyadi Janos
The prime recommendation of Hunyadi Janos Natural
Aperient Water is that it far surpasses manufactured
aperients as a remedy for Constipation, Biliousness, Indi-
gestion, Hemorrhoids, Torpid Liver, etc. It is bottled
at the springs, just as Nature creates it, without the addition
of any other constituent.
All chemists sell Hunyadi Janos. Get a bottle to-day.
CONSTIPATION
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/IJ, 2/9 & */6.
tf/tlcrcdf*
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectual! y
cuts short all
attacks at
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
OOUCHB, COLDB, ABTHMA, and In
*ho cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION-
Acta like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“The Oldest inhabitant”: Tlie first depositors in
1832 in the Barrack-street (Sydney) Savings Bapk
were the children of James Chisholm, of the old
Thistle Inn, who gave a rboiii gratis for orie yeat as
an office for the institution, A heap of money is
said to be lying in the bank waiting fdr claimants,
and a large sum should have been applied for by
the Curator of Intestate Estates. Amongst the
wad is money to the credit of Jackey Jackey, the
faithful. companion pf explorer Kennedy (Cape York
Peninsula, in the ’4o’s). That coin was Subscribed
by the public as a testimonial td_ our brown brb-
thei', but he nevef had the iisfe Of it;
* li * *
“Chasuble”: An influential movement has started
in England to knock away the scandal of presenta-
tion to Anglican Church jobs. There are 13,000
benefices. Over 1100 are in thh King’s gift, ovot
TOO are given away by the Universities, and the
feSt are either given away or sold outright by
ecclesiastics Slid other pebple. The trside is just the
same as that in pubs; you pay so much for in-
going.” A clergyman usually gives about, tl-00
for a living df about £3f)o a year. Sometipies the
“ingoing” is heavier; for instance, Cavendish-Ben-
tinck, one of the Reform promoters, quotes a letter
from a divine who had paid £BOOO tor his little
stand, which gaVe him an income of £5OO a year.
No other but a nation of traders would put up with
this system df farming out the country S mimOita
soul. *
“Biiiy T.”: The bioke dr cove who grinds my razors
tdld me about MeTavish. I do not know that his
name was MeTavish, but it seems very nkel> •
think his front name was Donald. It ought to Mve
been—or else Duncan Isaac. He went into the shop*,
and asked to be shown some razors. Mind ye,
laddie,” he said cautiously, “I micht buy, and I
micht no. Till no be tyin me doom They showed
him some razors. “Have ye no cheaper , he salt.
“Yon’s a ter-r-rible amount O’ money. fney showed
him the cheapest. He was dissatisfied. Then the
shopman produced a safety razor. ‘ How do you like
this?” he said. “You get 12 blades with this.
“Twal’?” said MeTavish in pleased astonishment.
He looked the safety over. “Eh,” he said, yons
fine, but a mon couldna cut his throat wi sic a new-
fangled thing.” “But, great Scott, you don t want
to cut your throat!” cried the business man. Na,
na,” said Fergus Abraham MeTavish, wagging hi.
head, “but a mon couldna if so it happent that, he
deed want to. Gi’ me one o’ the ithers. bo
Ephraim Alexander took one Of the cheapest, and
went out, prepared for the worst.
* * * 4
“Moana”: Modern methods are about, to be applied
to the gathering Of kauri glim in Maoriland. A
company has just been formed for the purpose of
working a dredge constructed on the lines of the
gold-collecting machines in use in Otago, the Best
Coast and elsewhere. North of Auckland there are
thousands of acres of swamp, said to be fine gum-
bearing or gum-drowning country, but hitherto it has
bhen impossible, on account of deep-drowning, to get
the product out. So a disused gold-dredge is to be
given a trial. It will start work shortly in the
Awanui Swamp, and, if successful, will probably be
the pioneer of a very industry. It is proposed
to drain the swamp, which will then be available for
agriculture. There is no “wash” in this country, the
silt extending to a great depth, so the land is not
irretrievably ruined by dredging, as happens when one
of these floating machines goes forth in search ot
gold. In fact, it is claimed that country of the class
it is proposed to operate on is improved, from a
farming point of view-, by having the dredge through
it But, of course, cos. that hie themselves forth
in pursuit of the elusive and precarious dividend have
a habit of making all sort of claims. Some of
them are prepared to dredge the sky and thereby
drain and improve the stars.
“Kola”: The animosity which some alleged Aus-
tralians show towards the manufactures of their own
country Was well illustrated by the veneering inci-
dent before the Tariff Commission, commented on
by you on May 2. I am connected with a country
store, and I see a lot of the same thing on a smaller
scale. The best rug we stock is made in Geelong.
It is a beautiful rug, all-wool, and sold at a moderate
figure. But it bears a non-committal brand, and is
constantly sold as “Best Imported.” The traveller
told me that he is beginning to be able to sell
Onkaparinga (S.A.) rugs in Victoria and Geelong
rugs in S.A., but he finds it very hard to sell either
in its own State. Instead of being proud of our
own manufactures, we seem to be actually ashamed
of them. Lewis and Whitty say they couldn t sell
a cake of their toilet soap if it carried their own
brand. Yet they make a magnificent soap, and sell
a huge tablet, twice the size of Pears’, for 7d.
(retail). We are often asked for Lever’s, and sell
their Castile soap to people who think it is im-
ported. If they knew it was made in Sydney that
would be the end of it. A Melbourne firm, Harper,
sells a fine cocoa at Is. 4d. the Boz. tin. We find
the imported cocoa, at Is. 9d., running level with it,
though’ there is no difference, to me, in the quality.
Occasionally we meet with a refreshing change. A
bush contractor loading up a month’s supplies in-
sisted, the other day, on all Australian goods. He
tossed out Nestle’s milk, and I had a job to convince
him that it was made at Warrnambool.
“Demo”: Cabled that the Canadian Parliament
discusses the prohibition of tips. An attempt is
made to laugh it out of court; but I will insist that
every Parliament ought to squelch tipping by law.
It is death to democracy. The man who will take
a tip will sell his vote. When the U.S. Fleet was
here the sailors would say, “If anybody offered us a
tip, we’d he inclined to chuck it overboard.” The
worst case in Australia is that of the red-capped
luggage porters on the Victorian railways. They live
only bv tips. All day long they are touching their
peaks with: “Kind sir (or lady), all we get depends
on your kindness.” Is that a position for any demo-
cratic citizen? Poor women travellers are system-
atically robbed. They either get no attention at all
or must fork out sixpence for a job of which one
man could easilv do 500 ill a day. Make these men
respectable, I say. The present odious system breeds
snobs and cringers.
Some U.S. enemy of chauffeurs and garages has in-
vented the Trafilog. It is an eight-day clock arrange-
ment which carries a chart and a recording finger
operated by the vibration of the vehicle, and is fixed
to the dash of a motor-car like a speedometer. When
the car is not in use the recording finger traces an
even line on the chart; when the engine is running,
the line is wavy; and when the car is moving the
line develops into a broad shaded- band. The re-
corder automatically commences a new line each day,
and, as the chart is marked for each hour, the instru-
ment leaves behind a complete and accurate record of
what was being done with the car every minute of
the week. On commercial vehicles it shows the actual
running time on long journeys, the time consumed in
loading and unloading; and, of course, too much
wavy line indicates that the driver has been careless
and'has wasted petrol and oil through not stopping
the engine when standing still. Too much plain line,
when the motor should have been hustling round de-
livering goods, suggests idleness or pubs. In fact,
tlie thing is a regular Sherlock Holmes —so long as
it is in action. There, however, is the rub. No
rational joy-rider would dream of leaving it in any
other than a hopelessly disabled state from the
moment he started the engine of the car. The suc-
cess of the Trafilog as a detector depends on the
honestv of the mechanic. Where the mechanic is
honest' the Trafilog is superfluous; where he is the
other thing, the Trafilog is perfectly certain to be
chronically out of order. So the wretched car-owner
isn’t much further ahead, really.
* * *
Curiously enough, it seems, according to an expert
witness examined in Sydney by a roving Commission,
it isn’t the lighting quality of gas that matters most
nowadays. The old test of “candle power’ is prac-
tically no good where the almost umversally-used
incandescent mantle is concerned. What is needed
now is a gas with a high heating power; its lighting
qualities, as judged by the old standards, are quite
a secondary consideration.


f
of Quality
and Stability.
> •
■
SfcS
ISAAC HOLLIS 8 SONS’ “ THE RELIABLE ” D.8.8.L. Gun,
12-gauge, top lever, bar action, 30in. real twist or steel
barrels, Greener cross bolt, both choke, rebounding locks,
snap fore-end, chambered for 2§in. cartridges, weight from 7JI
for all Smokeless Powders, half-pistol grip, walnut stock.
DELIVERED,
V). to7ylb. Guaranteed
£6 12s. 6d
ip:
■asfi&sEw*
C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
12 or IG-gauge, top lever, double bolt. 30in. barrels,
left choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks, nitro proof, weight
of 12-gauge, about 7ilb. ; of Id-gauge, about GJlb. ; j m m
Greener cross-bolt. DELIVERED, S 2m§n f
GUN REPAIRS
a Speciality.
All kinds of Gun
Parts in stock.
sdf
Send for our Price List of
Guns, Rifles and Ammunition.
Post Free Anywhere.
“The Continental ’ D.8.8.L. EJECTOR Gun,
12- or IG-gauge, top lever, 30-inch Siemen’s steel barrels, both choke,
greener cross bolt, rebounding' bar locks, extension rib, pistol walnut
stock, snap fore-end ; weight—l2-gauge, about 71b.; l(i-guuge, about'GAlb. Delivered, £3/15:
sd
DOMOULINS’ D.8.8.L. GUN,
12-gauge, top lever, 30in. real twist barrels,
choke, side clips, square Greener cross bolt,
highly engraved, pistol grip, walnut stock,
weight about 71b., patent fore-end. POST FREE
4s.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
TH S hooti NO l J | ouif ites" Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
City Depot: 119 King Street, Sydney; and at Hunter Street, Newcastle.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale &. Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated "Waters and Cordials.
}
THE BEST
SMOKE
IS
YELLOW
ASTER
TOBACCO
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the Whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd.,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CAN’T GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merp.ik
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Da. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
oe Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How r to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List,). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
W indow Ticket W kiting Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics'
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. A ust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer's Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Hod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, Gd. Britain for the
British, Gd. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train fop. all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
■>« 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/8,
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups. Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler's Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
f
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Ohromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and snows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngand old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting- their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a nright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this irreat work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
TO THE. COMMONWEALTH. -~m§
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Ga mb], mis’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working fop. Ama-
teurs, Soldf.ring, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Y amp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for all Games), ’ Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River. 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. " Speeches and Toasts. -Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, is: post
is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s ' ed.
Self Instructor : Evbrt Max His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping. 2s. Like of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How MoDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan's Engine Driver’s Guide,
ns 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptamf.ron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Wayp.acks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. SW"Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
HE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Mark Ui>, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. Nkw Tricks with Cards, Is. Sai>i>iio, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is ad oust. Dr. Milford's Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/G. Adam L. Gordon’s Pokjis, complete,
1/8. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions ok the
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. Gd. Secret
History Court ok England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exdosed, Key to ail
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersoll's Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(.las. Coar.es), Is 3d posted. Ciievassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all 'at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife's Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, IfiOOillus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and a
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound. 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, bv Paine
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DA V


How to End Catarrh
of the Throat.
Master A. Morrison
(from a photo.).
“My son August,
aged fifteen years, suf-
fered very badly from
catarrh of the throat
for months,” writes Mrs.
E. Morrison, 19 Albany
Street, North Dunedin,
N.Z. “His throat was
very much inflamed
and lie could scarcely
breathe, for his nose
was so sore and swol-
len. We had him under
two doctors’ treatment,
but lie did not improve
in the least. A chemist
recommended Dr. Shel-
don’s New Discovery.
After taking the first
bottle there was a won-
derful improvement in
him, and we continued
to use it until five
bottles bad completely
cured him. He has
never been troubled
with catarrh since. I
shall be glad to recom-
mend Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery to any-
one suffering the
same.”
Best for all
Throat Troubles
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY has won the confidence of the parents
and the love of the young folk by its wonderful curative effect upon the
throat, chest and lungs. Children are particularly susceptible to coughs
and colds, and the medicine which can be relied upon to protect them
from all dangers is the one the mothers recognise as best.
Tt is a wise mother who prepares for trouble in time of peace. She places
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery on the shelf, and rests secure against all
winter dangers, knowing well she has the remedy which will protect her
children against the vicissitudes of cold weather.
Price, 1/6 and 3/-
D? Sheldons
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
CfCJ »
.ja..
\
£
E
BRAND
Now for the Good “American Dish”
I’ork and Beans—“'Hex” Fork and Beans —not the usual
tasteless dish, laboriously produced from soaked beans and
pickled pork, but deliciously steamed beans with good pork,
flavored through with the best of Tomato Sauces.
THAT’S “REX” PORK AND BEANS,
And the avidity of the family will surprise you.
Then, when you have tried this dish—have the other “Rex”
delicacies for your meals. But be sure you get “Rex” Brand.
“Rex” Delicacies are:—
Ilaiu Pate, jib. tins.
Veal and Tongue Pate, jib.
Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
Pork and Beans, ljlb.
Pigs’ Feet.
Sheep’s Tongues.
“Rex Brand Lard for cooking purposes.
Foggitt, Jones
& Co., Ltd.,
Curers of “Rex” Ham
and Bacon.
Packers of “ Rex” Pure
Food Products.
111111111111 l
iimmmi
miiiiniM
minimi
n »*
iiiiiiiiii
limn
'U
//'
pji
1
&
mill
uni.
iiijju
A Dream of Contract Labor
at Troy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A YOUNG canary in a cage
May sing liis feathers’ worth of
song;
A poet in ecstatic rage
May help the heavy earth along;
A pint or two of amber beer
Consumed when quiet evening dies
May lend a passing hour of cheer
To simple folk with weary eyes.
The world runs down its corkscrew track —
A merry world for all its sin—
The crowded people on its back
Are mostly glad to hear it spin ;
But if its song were all a groan.
And deaths were more than one apiece,
f'he joy of joys were still my own
As long as Sydney held Letticei
The smile of Helen tvas a prize
So valued for it? woman worth
That gentlemen, to own her eyes,
Were ready to uproot the earth ;
In fact, they smashed a lot of things,
And swept a city bare with flame,
Split heroes’ heads and slaughtered kings
To save the honor of her name.
lhe story Time can not destroy
Was with me in a dream last night;
Cpon the windy plains of Troy
I stood with others armed for fight;
Hector put up a splendid scrap
And bashed and banged for all he knew.
He might have wiped us off the map
If we had stayed to see it through.
Athene, from the summer height.
Trailed her blue teagown down the sky,
And pretty Iris, swift and light,
In goddess corsets fluttered by;
The broad sun lingered in his car
To watch our race across the flat,
Bach speeding like a panto, star
Beneath the horsehair on liis hat.
We ran like mad to reach the shore;
A Queensland bloke and I got first.
We drank a quart of beer or more
Before we quenched our battle thirst;
I lien, as we pulled our armor off,
Across the gangway-plank there came
A big Greek pugilistic toff —
Achilles was the hero’s name.
W kat luck ! he said. “How fares it,
boys ?
I hear you had a go to-day.
I reckoned by the kind of noise
That Trojan pug was making play.”
We told him of our willing bout
And how we had to sprint like mad,
How fifty coves were clean knocked out,
And things were looking pretty bad.
lle threw his big cigar away ;
He eyed me and that Queensland bloke:
W hat does old Agamemnon pay
...Gou chaps to fight and brag and smoke?”
We told him thirty bob a week
And beer allowance when we fought—
Explaining that the beer was Greek.
The hero muttered : “So he ought!”
He led us to the big canteen
And bought us drinks with lavish hand;
We felt some pride in being seen
With the drum major of the band.
At; last he put the question square:
“What will you fellows take to kill.
1 his Hector cove who seems to wear
The honors in the present mill?
“I know when you are out to try
What you Australian blokes can do;
This Trojan rotter has to die,
So name your price and see it through.”
W e named a figure to his taste,
U e shook our hands and closed the deal,
w e went and clothed ourselves in haste
In copper like a liner’s keel.
Before us great Achilles strode,
His golden armor clanging free.
I lie horse’s tail his helmet showed
Streamed like a steamer’s smoke at sea.
He shouted at the city gate,
lII s splendid voice rolled down the wind ;
But on the stroke of doom and fate
lhe mighty hero got behind.
Athene wrapped him in her shawl
In case his armor should be scratched ;
1 heard immortal Here call.
“Good luck, with all the cash attached!”
A crowd of minor gods and things
Game down to nerve him for the fray,
And keep liis fierce imaginings
I rom getting into danger’s way.
Great Hector bustled out to meet
The challenge of his greater foe,
All covered up from head to feet
In half a ton of brass or so.
W e rushed on him and got him down.
W e made large punctures in his chest,
He said good-bye to bis renown
And gave the job of living best.
And then the great Achilles came
And jumped on him with both his boots,
And. shouting out his own large name,
Dragged half his hair out by the roots.
And as a cab was passing bv
He hailed it. and attached the corse
■ ’ clothes-lines twisted round its thigh
lo the hind-quarters of the horse.
* * u ‘ J e j lu cracked his ancient whip.
.... 1 ,le j!°rse dragged cab and corse and all
Hiree times lie made the five-bob trip
Bound the full circle of the wall.
Ihe people in the city learned
Their Hector’s fall in blank despair;
But all agreed that cabby earned
Lhe last pale sixpence of his fare.
Achilles settled like a man.
He said our job was workmanlike.
1 hat since the ten-years war began
Blokes like ourselves were hard to strike-
-1I( told us such support as ours
W as worth spot cash at any time.
It glorified his godlike powers.
And made his future fame sublime.
Then from the city gateway came
A gentleman who wore a beard.
He said that Priam was his name.
And he explained that, as he feared
llis young son Hector now was dead,
Pie would pay twenty quid a week
If we would take the job instead
And keep the city clear of Greek.
That night at eight we entered Troy,
The people gave us greetings fair.
They said the foe could not destroy
One pumpkin bed while we were there.
The place itself was very fine.
With indications of much pelf.
And there mid flowers and lamps ashine
Sweet Helen welcomed us herself.
Her lips were red, her night-black hair
Was braided wide with gold and pearl;
But that which made me blink and stare
Was simply that I knew the girl.
Before me in a silver mist
I saw that beauty of old Greece— ■
The very maid that I had kist —
I recognised her as Lettice!
And then I fully understood
Why everybody fought like mad,
And made remarks both loud and rude,
And tried to do each other bad.
I wanted to burn towns and ships,
Wreck nations, and the world destroy
To taste again those perfect lips
With all their hot and crimson joy.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.
The Red-haired Girl.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE blew in through my open door on
the warm breath of a north-easter,
and without any preamble tackled
her subject straight away.
"1 want to object! I know it isn’t any
good,” she admitted, witli the delightful
I rankness of her sex, “but 1 want to lodge
a protest against the idea that all girls with
well, with hair like mine, are a little bit
over the odds.”
A big sunshine hat hid most of her top
piece, but I took the color of her hair for
granted, and she prattled on.
“It isn’t right, it isn’t giving us a fair
go. It’s starting us off with a whole string
of convictions recorded —not against us,
mind you. but against our hair. It is
ridiculous!”
“I think it’s”
"I don’t cate what you think,” she cut in.
“It’s what you think that’s the trouble, and
its got to be stopped. Now listen!” Ilere
she came a pace nearer. “In all the course
of your reading did you ever notice that
the shy, white-souled, shrinking heroine,
who has such rotten luck before she marries
the curate in the last chapter is never red-
haired V”
I explained that I did not read that sort
of story.
“Neither do I,” she snapped. “And I
wouldn’t marry a curate —unless he was a
cricketer —not if I could help it. But that’s
not it. Then there’s the patient, tearful
young widow who slaves from dawn to dark
to keep her orphan babe in virtuous poverty.
Is she ever red-haired? Never! Not once.
I‘ale gold—faded hay more like —smooth,
silky tresses, that gets me, but red —never.
Is the faithful and devoted wife ever ginger?
No, sir! According to all you painting and
writing Johnnies, not a single once. What
are you going to do about it?”
“Ileally.” I protested. “I don’t see how I
can be held responsible.”
"There you go—evading the question—
side-stepping the main issue, crying, ‘Please.
Miss, it wasn’t me.’ But it is you—you and
.vour crowd” —here she hit my desk a won-
derful rap for such a small fist —“and —you
can’t get away from it.”
I didn’t particularly want to, but she
Put it behind her back and asked me if I
ever went to the theatre.
‘Ho you remember ‘The Woman in the
Case’? Her hair would have caused a nice
riot, at a Hibernian picnic, wouldn’t it?
Did you see ‘The Vampire’—do you remem-
ber the train-warmer in it? Or Beatrice
Day’s crimson wig? Harrie Ireland used
to be bad enough, but things have got so
now on the stage that whenever a red-top
comes on the gallery throws peanut shells
at it_ It isn’t fair.”
“What cruelty! But what can I do?”
“I dunno —but you might get somebody to
write a book or something, with a red-
haired lady in it who is thoroughly respect-
able.”
She swallowed a small sob before she be-
gan the next verse in a minor key.
“You see, it’s so hard —it don’t matter
how much you try—there’s your hair, and
you’ve got to live up to it, or have people
say. ‘lsn’t she a deceitful wretch!’ You
can’t belong to a church choir without some
old cat in a back pew saying your thatch is
perfectly indecent. You can’t go to a gipsy
tea without some horrid man smoodging up
to you and —and trying to kiss you.”
She was one of those emotional women
whose feelings sometimes overcome them.
I begged her to sit down.
“No, 7 she sighed, picking a scrap of
handkerchief out of a tiny purse. “Thank
you very much. I can talk better standing,
and make a quicker getaway if I want to
You see. I've had this sort of hair all my
life and I know what I’m talking about.”
“But. my dear girl”
“Don’t you dare ‘dear girl’ me, you brute
—you wouldn’t have done it if my’ hair had
been any other color but—what it is. Don’t
you just dare.”
“I beg your pardon.”
“Well, don’t do it again, or you'll see.
It’s perfectly sickening. I could dye it easv.
I know several girls who do. but the funriv
thing is they dyed it red. What are you
laughing at? I don’t see anything funny in
it. Mine would stain a lovely brown, don’t
you think?”
. “I’m sure it would, but it is very much
nicer as it is.”
“Stoppit!”
“Do allow me to explain. I am”
“I don’t care what you are—you don’t
come any funny business with *me just
because my hair is—what it is. It’s mine—
it’s as God made it.”
(Continivcd on next page.)


Keep - Peps handy
for CHILDREN’S
in pM COUGHS &
esflP COLDS
e_-
IV
h
i
*
n
&
ii
*
\
A GOLDEN RULE for '
mothers is never to
neglect the first sign of » cold
or chill in their children; and the
best and surest way to stop a cougn,
and thus arrest the beginning of chest
weakness, is to give the little sufferer
few Eeps breathable tablets. One®£ed
in the case of infants, half a
into a powder and placed, on the to g ,
immediately prove beneficial.
Peps have two great advantages » ver «^:. f ® sl “® n peps k
cough mixtures and cheap lozenges. I . 3 ’ „ healing^
dissolve in the mouth they give « ff a h “° breathedinto
and lung-strengthening V.' lonas This is the
the throat, bronchial tubes and lungs. " h iu(ASS
only way to stop a cough and end that wiiee/ai ,
hard breathing, choking, whooping and ches .
that distress a child so much.
Secondly, Peps are perfectly free from °» iu “’ v £ u J;
anum and other harmful drugs, an * Solute benefit,
delicate children with an assurance of a “ e p ” e f“
Pleasant to the taste and soothing in a idan to
favorites with the children. It is an excellent panto
keep Peps for children’s use before setting " li dB
school on a damp day, and thus keep and even
whooping cough, croup, sore throat, bronchitis and
pneumonia.
Peps are the real safeguard against Winter’s on-
coming dangers, and will keep the childrens chests
strong and their lungs healthy.
PEPS GO DIRECT TO THE LUNGS.
Peps, the great breathing remedy for throat and chest com-
nlflints are excellent for Colds, Coughs, Bronchitis, Sore and
Relaxed Throat Night Cough, Early Morning Cough, Hoarseness,
Bronchial Colds,' Chest Tightness,
Winter Cough, Chest Weakness in Children, Smoker s Throat ana
other Throat, Chest and Lung Ailments. Sold by all Chem .
and Stores at 1/6 and 3/- per box, or direct post paid from the
proprietors, C. E. Fulford (Australasia), Ltd., 39 Pitt street,
Sydney.
Mother’s Praise for Peps.
“My two children suf-
fered from very severe
colds,” writes Mrs. Ethel
Nyes, of 54 McKenzie
Street, Leichhardt, Syd-
ney, “which were accom-
panied by such fearful
coughs that I became very
anxious. My mother, who
had herself been cured by
P e p s of Bronchitis,
strongly advised me to
administer them to the
little ones, and after tak-
ing a few of the Pastilles
the cough eased, phlegm
was freely ejected, and a
continuation of the Peps
treatment completely
cured them. Now we are
never without a box ot
Peps always handy, es-
pecially in the winter
months.”
Coughs,Colds & Bronchitis
For
BREATHE
THE
PURE
PINE-AIR
OF
PEPS.
A Remarkable Remedy.
Few medicines have met with more favor or accomplished more good than
Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy.
It has relieved more pain and suffering and saved the lives of more people
than any other preparation in use. One or two doses of it is enough to relieve
an ordinary attack of colic or diarrhoea. It has been used m many epidemics of
dysentery with perfect success.
It relieves bowel complaints in their most severe forms and is especially valu-
able for diarrhoea and summer complaint in children.
&
r'V
V
SSr
£s^
r/ffA
SS 0
~6tMtMY %
(Co frvßtan r &ai
Hacking Coughs.
‘ ‘ j.'or Hacking Coughs that rob you of your sleep till your system be-
comes so run down that you are in grave danger of Pneumonia or
Consumption, the kind that almost tear you to pieces, that make your head
ache, your throat sore and inflamed take
m
X COUGH EEMEOY
fBLMIf
It soothes and heals the inflamed air passages, stops the tickling in the
throat, and by its tonic effect enables you to throw off the disease.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is quite different from the ordinary cough
medicine for it not only soothes but also heals, so that the affected parts
are restored to a healthy condition and the danger of a future attack is
removed. I firmly believe that it is the best and most reliable preparation
ever produced for coughs and colds.”
I thrust her into & chair, and standing
UP waggefl my finger at her.
“that’s just thp point,” I said, "the crux
of the whole question. In the pagan days
or loug ago, when we didn’t know much
more than we do now, right away up in
across tjie horizon the cold night went and
the warm day came. Grass grew, flowers
budded, fruit ripened, and everybody had a
square meal once a day. Folks were grj'-tc"
ful in those days, and felt they owed a debt
to this ruddy god. They extended the
glad hand to red-haired people because it
seemed to them that they resembled the sun
and maybe they possessed some of. his com-
forting attributes. It was the thing to be
red-haired in those days.”
“ Whatteryougivinus ?”
"Absolutely reliable myth. Then a new
sort of religion came along and wiped the
floor with the older tradition, and when the
top-dog became the under-dog, every time a
red-haired one came along they pointed the
lean finger of bigotry at him and shouted
•Hello, Bluey!’ or else said ‘Here’s one ot
the sun’s poor relations. Let’s throw a
brick at him.’ ”
“You don’t tell me.”
“Fair do! Mind you, I don’t say that
the brick-heavers were not sincere, but 1
expect that a certain amount of envious
emulation helped to accentuate their anti-
pathy.”
“Their which? Never mind. Its quite
likely.”
“Exactly, and from saying they came to
believing, and by believing it came to be it,
and from being continually accused of pos-
sessing certain qualities those so accused
began to possess—or at least to act as if
they did. See?”
“I don’t quite follow you—not that it
matters, for it isn’t what I came to talk
about —so there. You might think that this
is just a joke on my part, but it isn’t. I m
serious, quite serious, and what I want to
say is that any girl can be quite RED-
HAIRED and yet know how to behave her-
self.”
“Undoubtedly!” _
“And because her hair is—of a particular
shade she is no more”
“Of course not.”
“Than one whose hair isn’t.”
“Precisely !”
“I don’t deny that girls with —hair like
mine are not fond of admiration.”
“Why should you?”
“All girls are.”
“Many deserve it, and auburn or red-gold
are admirable colors.”
“Y—yes, I’ve heard that.”
“Venus, the goddess of love, was crowned
with gold, and Sappho had ‘the sunshine
prisoned in her hair.’ ”
“I never heard of her, but maybe she was
no better than she should be.”
“No woman ever is, thank Heaven. Then
there was Cleopatra, whose smiles men
threw away kingdoms to win. She was red-
haired. So was Queen Elizabeth and Mary
Stuart, Marie Antoinette, the Empress
.Josephine and —you.”
“How nice!”
She'had a mobile mouth and very beauti-
ful teeth. .. .
“These were women whose complexions
will live in story till the crack of doom.
You have every reason to be proud of your
Titian locks.”
“Oh, I am. I only wanted to show tnat
people are quite wrong when they say that
—red-haired girls are —-er —er —you know
easy to get acquainted with.”
“Absolutely wrong! Now,” as I reached
for my hat, “having settled that point sup-
pose we go and have a cup of tea some-
where.*’
The twinkle in her blue eyes showed me
that I had sidetracked another burning
question. . , .
Besides I always did like red hair.
D. H. SOUTER.
The Weirdest Place in the
World.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THEY had no queue in old Judee; so
when the man who had been afflicted
with gout for 38 years hobbled along
to get into the bath at Bethsaida,
an American tourist whose rheumatism
wasn’t in his legs always 'shoved in ahead,
and the man with the gout could never get
a dip in the healing spring.
They manage things better at Rotorua.
There you buy tickets, and if there are more
of you than the baths will hold they fix a
time for you. It is a tidier way, but prob-
ably it costs more. ,
At Bethsaida there were live porches;
but, unless John, the junior reporter, put
the matter clumsily, there was only one
bath. At Rotorua you can take your choice
of several. There is also a baneologist on
the premises—a German doctor who knows
exactly how much everybody ought to be
boiled and is learned in the curative mys-
teries of sulphur mud. You needn’t wallow
in the black slush if you don’t think you
are a general wreck. For instance, you can
take merely a liver pack, which comes
cheaper. Afterwards, when you have taken
your gruel, you can lie in the lounge of the .
pretentious bath-house and cool off.
Sometimes, after you have had your bath
or your course of baths, the little devil who
inhabits the blood of the rheumatic, and
playfully tears his muscles, quits suddenly;
and then the rheumatic goes home and
talks about his cure. But, in his heart, he
is not very confident. He knows that this
is the way of the little devil. If you are
the rheumatic you pull yourself to your
bed groaning; and when you have composed
yourself and dropped to sleep you dream
of the fresh antics that the little devil will
be up to in the morning. But in the morn-
ing you wake to find that the little devil
has stolen away in the night, and you
gingerly shake yourself to be sure of it.
These times, though, you don’t talk about
a cure; you just thank Heaven for a smaller
mercy and resignedly wait for the little
devil’s return.
In front of the pretentious bath-house,
which wants a coat of paint and will no
doubt get it when Maoriland floats its next
loan, there is a brilliant, well-kept garden
in a wilderness. 4- man with a stick on
each side of him sat on a seat overlooking
the trout pond and seemed anxious to talk
about his ailments. He lived at one of the
pack of boarding-houses, with people who
had ailments of theiy owp> an d they
wouldn’t iet him talk as much about his
lot as he wanted to. He was a Maorilander
himself, from the North Island, and being
handy to Rotorua he thought he would just
drop in and for old acquaintance sake shake
the hand of the place where he had lost his
rheumatism years ago. And for old ac-
quaintance sake he had taken a “Rachel”
—or it may have been a “Priest” —and just
to show that he was 20 years younger than
he used to be he had spurned the bowling
greens and the croquet lawns, and had skipped
around on one of the dozen tennis courts.
Next day he had bought a walking stick
and after that had borrowed another, and
as he watched the trout leaping in the pond
and wolfing every sort of food that was
thrown them he said he hated trout.
On every gravelled walk there are men on
crutches and old ladies in invalid chairs.
The other inhabitants of Rotorua are divis-
ible into three classes —those who push the
chairs; those who tear round, the district
looking into green pools that boil and bubble,
and poking sticks into mud that heaves
and groans; and those who cook and “do”
for all the others and take their tips. In
front of the baths building, among the
flower-beds, there is a roaring blow-hole
which pours out a cloud of sulphurous steam
continually, and a noisy hot spring which
tries to be a geyser and almost succeeds at
times. Behind it runs an arm of the big
lake; sulphur strews its shore; jets *>f
steam rise from it in a hundred places, and
clouds of fume roll lazily away. To. the
left stretches a thick scrub of spindly
manuka, cut through by paths, every path
leading to the inevitable bog of boiling mud
because no path could possibly lead any-
where else.
Rotorua is the modern creation ol the
tourist who comes to gape at the fissured
earth and catch a glimpse of the inferno
underneath, and of the halt who hobble to
the sulphur springs. On either flank is .an
older Maori pah, Ohinemutu on one side,
Whakarewarewa on the other. At Whaka
half a dozen geysers play , when they will
and the tortured earth hisses steam and
vapor always. Ohinemutu is riddled like
a colander. Nature has laid on a hot-water
service to every Maori whare. There is no
need for cooking places and wash-tubs built
with hands ; the steam and boiling water do
it all. Alongside, the thin crust of earth
has fallen and a village lies submerged be-
neath the lake. Twenty miles away another
village lies buried; twenty-five miles and
there is a third. Those were tragedies of 26
years ago. Something had to give, and the
long folded crest of Tarawera offered the
handiest line of least resistance. The lid
being blown off, the furious hell poured
itself out till the face of the country was
changed. The plain at the foot of Tarawera
became a deep lake; forests were blasted;
mountains' of mud, now naked and desolate;
were built in a morning. Then, except that
the lake boiled in places and steam issued
from every fissure save that of Tarawera it-
self, the country lay as if dead under its
shroud of pumice dust. Six years later
something else had to give, and Waimangu
sprang up, the greatest geyser of which
there is any record, though, as some say,
more volcano than geyser. To-day the lake
still boils and the riven earth, still pours
out its steam; but where Waimangu was
you look down on a plain of sulphur-coated
pumice and mud, spitting in places like a
pan of boiling fat. (Perhaps “boiling cat
would better express the situation.) As far
as Taupo, 50 miles from Rotorua, you are
the plaything of the monster over whom you
are clambering. . .. ,
Sometimes the monster turns in his bed,
and then south to Wanganui and Welling-
ton they feel the pull of the bedclothes
and report an earthquake —even across the
Straits and as far down into the South
Island as Christchurch. That city, never
forgetful of its English birth, must have a
spire to every church; and when the bed-
clothes stir the fingerposts to Heaven be-
have much more drunkenly than respectable
church spires should, and the collection plate
has to work overtime in consequence.
Rotorua hobbles to its baths and dances
its hakas on top of a boiler whose rivets
have got loose and whose plates have burned
thin and are cracked. “Thank God for the
rivets that have fallen out and the plates
that have cracked,” it says as it puts the
newest train-load of visitors on its plate
and proceeds to its daily meal. They know
they might blow up otherwise. But since
Tarawera there is no inspector of land boilers
who knows enough about the fury of the
fire in the furnace or the pressure of steam
in the leaky vessel to give the thing a cer-
tificate.
S.H.P.
The Spinner.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I spun a thread of gold
On the turning wheel of desire.
I knew that my hand could hold
A flame of the olden fire.
“Lo, this is life,” I sang,
“And the end of the thread shall be
As the first young song that rang
To the oldest melody.”
The red flame scorched my hand,
But my heart was singing still,
“I am spinning a shining strand
That shall bind the great world’s will.”
The fierce flame scorched my heart,
But never a pause I made.
“The thing that I spin is part
Of a wonder that cannot fade.”
The wild flame scorched my soul,
But I sang to the flying wheel,
“Oh, glad are the hands that stole
What the young gods could not steal!”
I spun a thread of gold
From a fleece of shining fire,
Till the bobbin reel was cold
On the wheel of dead desire.
N.S.W.
D.M.W.


WESTINGHOUSE
(MORSE) CHAIN DRIVES
m
m
si sss
'
■
• uh- ■ . -, 1 •' SEW- i ■
a m '/ * I
i # - rS i«f
I
For all types of high-speed
power transmission*
Positive in Action
Silent in Operation
Unrivalled in Efficiency.
Because their patented feature,
The Rocker Joint,
eliminates the friction due to
sliding surfaces* Consequently
you have
Full Power
Continuous Power
Satisfactory Power.
Full Particulars from
The Westinghotise Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents— Ho'mas & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents—Philips & '’ike, Wellington.
[ ftwiHi j isimyi m n
WOOD-WORKING MACHINES
Manufactured by
BOUNDERS,
STOCKHOLM,
m
have characteristics not found in other makes. They are particularly mas-
sive in construction—every part is easily accessible, and they are fitted with
Ball Bearings throughout.
Catalogue and list of Australian users on application.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Brisbane: CORDON FAINE LTD. Melbourne: NOYES BROS.
dsf
Magnesia
sd
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
f
The Universal Bemedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
REMINGTON
UMC
Cartridges
I for every Pistol
and Revolver made
For sale by leading dealers everywhere
A census of revolver and pistol ex-
perts will show that the majority use
Remington - UMC cartridges. Their
prompt ignition, uniform and sure—their
absolute accuracy—are demonstrated by
world’s records:
World’s Indoor 50-shot Pistol Record
held by George Armstrong ...
World’s Indoor 25-shot Pi3tol Record
held by George Armstrong . . .
World’s 75-shot Rapid Fire Record
held by A. P. Lane
World’s Outdoor Pocket Revolver
Record held by A. P. Lane . . •
World’s Grand Aggregate Individual
Record held by A. P. Lane ...
World’s Military Record held by
Samuel Peterson.......
482 x 500
244 x 250
605 x 750
211x250
1236
215x256
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
P. O. Box 686
Melbourne
THE LONE
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
sdf
Sound Advice.
I
r
f
l
\
than take
Beechams Pills
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager.
)
w r>
m*
tyCESSm PROD
SAWMILLERS,
Builders &, Joiners,
Take my advice and buy your
Woodworking' Machines at
KIRCHNER & CO.
32 MarKet Street, Sydney.
They hold the largest stock in Australasia. They give you
value for your money. They are the manufacturers, and can
save you the heavy, middleman’s commission. Their
machines are up to date and reliable. They stock all spare
parts and reserve tools. It will be a pleasure to you and
your men to work their machines.
Go and see them to-day, or ’phone City 7091.
CASH OR TERMS. CATALOGUES FREE.
GOLDFIELDS DIAMOND DRILLING CO.Pty.Ltd.
331 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works-Sturt St., South Melbourne.
gARHSTBO
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Armstrong Traction Well-Boring Machine
MOVES WITHOUT HORSES
RUM ELY KEROSENE
OIL TRACTORS.
ALL-STEEL BORING PLANTS,
TOOLS AND CASING.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines,
Pumps, Windmills, Silos, Hay
Presses, Wagons, etc., etc.
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
Low in first cost, easy to i natal, no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL,
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile —
WRITE FOR FREE PLANS and BOOK.
Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack partitions
and have a Kire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
FRICTION HOISTS.
SPECIALLY SUITED for BUILDERS* USE.
SIZE IN STOCK: scwt. lift at 200 ft. per minute.
scwt. lift at 300 ft. per minute.
lOcwt. lift at 175 ft. per minute.
Fitted with Motors for Use on any Supply Voltage or System. MODERATE PRICES.
OF AUSTRALIA Ltd* •
SYDNEY: Wynyard Lane.
MELBOURNE: 61 William Street.
BRISBANE: Corner Saul & Roma Streets.
3520 City.
5117 City.
3676 Central.
FRICT lON]
CLUTCHES THAT
CLUTCH
THE u WATERLOO”
GUARANTEED BY
. PATCNYKBB and MAKERS
..
Sydney Machine Co.
BOTANY ROAD. WATERLOO,
K«w South Wales.
Tangye Portable Oil and Benzine Engines.
Clayton & Shuttlevvorth Portable Stea-.n
Engine.
Wolseley Crutchingf Plants.
Munro Handy Bagger Chafl cutter
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED,
MACHINERY AGENCIES:
TANGYES: Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Steam Engines, Boilers, Pumps of
all descriptions, Winches, Chain Blocks, Hydraulic Jacks, Screw Jacks, Bears, etc., etc,
CLAYTON Lo SHBTTLEWOETH: Portable Steam & Traction Engines, Steam Road Rollers, etc,
NICHOLSON & MORROW: “Union” Farm Implements, comprising Harvesters, Drills, etc,
WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines. MUNRO Chaffcutters and Saw Benches.
GANE MILKING MACHINES.
9
k
D ALGETY & C9LT?
“r^T^-AGENTS
4 8 9
MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY,
and all Branches.
Gall and Inspect Our Showroom.
MASON Regulating Devices
We are the Agents for
THE MASON REGULATOR COMPANY
and carry complete stocks of their
ALL BRONZE STEAM REDUCING VALVES,
IRON BODY STEAM REDUCING VALVES,
WATER REDUCING VALVES,
PUMP PRESSURE REGULATORS.
When others give trouble, try a
MASON. They Never Fail.
If you are interested let us send you the latest edition of their Catalogue, just
to hand.
Sole Agents for Australia —
H. P. GREGORY CO.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC LIGHT
WITH ECONOMY.
AUTOMATIC ELECTRIC LIGHTING SETS
FOR PRIVATE INSTALLATIONS
OVERCOME ACCUMULATOR TROUBLES.
NO ATTENDANT. THEY START and STOP THEMSELVES.
FOR PARTICULARS APPLY TO
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
SOLE AGENTS,
307-311 Rent Street, Sydney»'
and
380 Bourke Street, Melbourne
is
“Lister”—the emblem of effi-
ciency and low cost in Sheep-
shearing Machinery,
All parts guaranteed interchange-
able with the Wolseley,
Lister duplicates top the scale
for superiority and durability.
DANGAR GEDYE & CO.,
0-13 YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY.
BEST ENGINE TO BUY. - -
©6e CHEAPEST ENGINE TO RUN.
0-/>e AUSTRALIAN - MADE ENGINE.
In OtHer Words —
THE SUNSHINE ENGINE
Maker: H. V. McKAY, Sunshine, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane.
THE“CARD” CONCENTRATOR
MODEL “D” PATENTED.
d
SPECIAL DECKS for COARSE and FINE SANDS,
as used by tHe leading Australasian mines on
TIN, COPPER, GOLD, SILVER, LEAD, WOLFRAM, etc.
The “CARD** is manufactured ONLY by the
SOLE LICENSEES—
•9
£MirU
Equitable Building, Sydney.
Church Lane, Melbourne.
Camomile St. Chambers, London.
