

MELLOWED BY AGE.
R. 6. WATKINS dK CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOK— /
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty ; AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of
BILLS DISCOUNT
D.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N-5-W- MONT DE PIETE D &I C? UP
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAQH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. A . Telephone: No. 225 Central.
Anu ai
186 Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street" Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
> 'w/- vmrr ymv >
ill'll!
1
i
i
Ijadley’s Orient fioteL
Richardsons
Wine 8 Spirit Stores,
68 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
158 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
con no woo*
pG
a
Bottle, Case or Gallon at Wholesale Price.
lITTAIU
“PINEAPPLE” HAMS & BACON
%J I I Ul
CHUBB'S
STEEL AND
CONCRETE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
m
M
m
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Sat
*0
■
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEWCASI LE
m
BENSDORPS
Royal
Dutch
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
•v
- >
JJ
jj
,v«'
jlt
♦ — ’V
■d=3
333
<LUJ
JJjL/V
mm
•. Wi
Vi*
*n\
X<au
GBB
, CBe^f-'SV
■BS
W»
imm
M
va*s
sua
jaasi
■■a
*1
3^l
7M
,rif.
SHS
*53
yJlffluj
.«-g
, 3»usseb a j
5W
rfr J".
?jJJ9S£a 0
.: • '«s *v ~
■“*'”' V -' c -® X* •
• & ip r. $s .• '
White Malthoid Roofing
Is the roofing that the American millionaires are using on their Winter
Homes in Pasadena. These homes are the embodiment of all that is
best—that’s the reason why White Malthoid is chosen to cap the
buildings. May we send you samples of this perfect roofing—
samples and prices ? Booklets, too, we’ll send you. What address ?
The Paraffine Paint Co., Challis House, Sydney.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE. D. S. EVANS, Australasian Representative.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
B.L
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
S .V. O.
“QUEEN OF STATES”
BACON and HAMS.
QUEENSLAND CO-OP. BACON CO.. LTD., BRISBANE.
HELIDON SPA
HEUDON SPA is the only Australian Mineral
Water with Genuine Osmotic Properties.
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
Phillip St., Sydney, and Sedtern
The Bulletin
Yol. 35.—N0. 1787.]
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
[Thursday, May 14, 1914.


HANDY BOORS.
{Postages
shown in
parentheses .)
Audel’s Household Helps, Hints & Receipts. 2/6 (3d.)
Conover: Making a Poultry House, illus. 2/- (Id.).
Artistic Australian Homes (100 plans). 3/6 (Id.).
Miss Fowler's Cook Book. 1/- (Id.).
Lee’s Priceless Recipes. 1/. (2d 1
Lls f a ’ s TT Cooking by Gas 9d (ld )
P,,rW5 1/.
WELCOME
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROPTY, ITD., 238 PITT STRICT, SYDNEY.
ROUND TABLE—No 14.
SPECIAL ARTICLES, Irish Crisis, South
African Strike, Education and Working
Class, The New Autocracy in China, Usual
articles from Dominions.
MacMillan & Co., 109 Russell Street, Mel-
bourne, or any Bookseller.
Price 10s. per annum. 2s. 6d. per copy.
ARCHER AND CO., 24 Bond St., have
TRUST MONEYS TO LEND in large
and small sums, on Interests uncfpr Wills and
in Intestate Estates, and on Freehold Mort-
gage. Lowest rates of interest.
Beautiful presents for ladies
and GENTLEMEN: Ladies’ Hand-
bags for shopping, 6/6 each; Ladies’ Sewing
Baskets, 6/6 each ; Doyley Mats, 10/- dozen ;
all different colors and designs.
Chinelas or Bath Slippers. Made from
Hemp fibre, heavy soles, will not slip on wet
surface, neither absorb water, 5/- pair.
. Cushion Covers, for Carriage or Automo-
bile Seats, 10/- pair.
Cigar and Cigarette Cases, 8/6 each.
Excepting Chinelas, these articles are all
hand-woven from Bury Palm fibre. Each of
these speaks for itself, and makes a very
choice Gift. Satisfaction or money back.
Post paid.
Pattinsrell & Co., Lucena, Tayabas, P.I.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Tooth Powder
The Great Antiseptic, Cleanses, Preserves and Whitens the Teeth.
The Best Safeguard against Disease is a CLEAN MOUTH AND TEETH.
Hudson’s Eumenthol TootH Powder
SECURES SOUND WHITE TEETH AND A HEALTHY MOUTH.
, ,j OT ? e P ra ctical reasons why Hudson’s Eumenthol Tooth Powder
should be used for Cleansing and Preserving the Teeth.
~ . BECAUSE it contains the Germicidal and Antiseptic virtues
that have made Eumenthol Jujubes famous the world over.
» not . only an Antiseptic and Germicide, but
cle nses mechanically, owing to the evolution of oxygen when in
contact with water or moisture.
, ** IS _^’ e oxygen which whitens the teeth so wonder-
tuiiy, and wards off decay as no other preparation for the teeth
can do, or will do, without affecting the Tooth Enamel.
the Committee of the British Dental Association
recommends Powder in preference to Pastes, Liquids or Soaps for
cleasing and preserving the teeth.
a * Chemists and Stores, price 1/6.
HOW TO III! THB POWDHi
The Amazing Moore
The Red Page
Vale, the concluding volume of George
Moore’s delightful and maliciously witty
trilogy. Hail and, Farewell (Heinemann, per
Sydney Book "Club), continues the Odyssey of
his Soul to his departure from Ireland. This
section of his autobiography ranges wide
through his present and his past, or pasts.
Moore begins by Ills pardonable desire to
re-acquire the habit of reading. But after
valiant efforts to read Shakespeare, Balzac,
Goncourt, Pater—-“a tide of honeyed words
preached by a divine from an ivory pulpit”-—-
Tom Jones, remembered “merely as a very
empty work written in a breezy manner,” he
gave the attempt up, consoling himself with
the thought that: “Though I' may have lost
the habit of reading, I have acquired, per-
haps more than any other human being, an-
other habit, the habit of thinking. I love
my own thoughts.” And his thoughts take
him back to his youth. Once, wo learn, he
acthally agreed to enter the army, on his
father’s advice. The death of his father,
however, set him free. Then his mother died,
“believing me to have been the best of sons,
though I never sacrificed my convenience to
hers. So we come to the gorgeous youth
of George Moore.
“To- be ridiculous has always been mon
petit luxe, but can anyone be said to be
ridiculous if he know that he is ridiculous?
Not very well. It is the pompous that are
truly ridiculous.” Yet did George Moore
know he was ridiculous when he was a
ridiculous youth? One suspects not.
Jim would throw himself on the sofa and
tell me for the hundredth time that the only
women worth loving were tall women with
abundant bosom and flaxen hair, the only
women that men with a sense of the beautiful
could admire, and his, control over my mind
was so great that for years I followed the
tall and abundant, convinced that I liked
deep in reality I liked hardly
any ; and 1 remember well the evening when
the thin girl sitting on my knee revealed my
own taste to me, and my regret that my best
efforts had been wasted on fat women.
Some of these efforts Moore conscientiously
details.. Next he was to be an artist, but
in Paris he found out his mistake, tried
drama and poetry, was introduced to French
literature, published in London his first book,
Flowers of Passion, and was told by The
Would that “The author of these poems
should be whipped at the cart’s tail, while
the book was being burnt in the market-place
by the common hangman.” But in Paris he
met everybody in literary and artistic society.
Especially was it his good fortune to know
the Impressionists before they were known
to the rest of the world. His theory of edu-
cation was that it was better conducted in a
cafe than in a university. He took with
him a valet, but he was soon dismissed, for
Moore felt that to be himself he sho f uld have
to live the physical as well as the intellectual
life of the Quarter. “Myself was the goal
I was making for, instinctively if you will,
but still making for it.”
Back we come to Yeats, who had returned
from the States “with a paunch, a huge
stride, and an immense fur overcoat.”
“Willie Yeats’s best poems were written, ac-
cording to JEi when he was a poor boy in
Sligo. All his best poems were written be-
fore he went, to London. And now he had
ceased to write poetry. M thought that his
long silence was due to his search for a
style: he would have written volume after
volume if he had been content to write
simply.” When Symons had shown Moore
Rosa Alchemica, Moore had replied: “His
inspiration is at an end, for he talks about
how he is going to write.” A man may tell
the subject of his poem and write it, but if
he fell how he is going to write his poem he
will never write it. Moore contrives in this
malicious, indirect way to convey the impres-
sion that Yeats is finished. The proba-
bility, when we consider the variants he has
made, and published, of his early verse, is
that he is.
Then there is a fine picture of Synge,
tramping through Ireland, “thinking out the
dialogue of his plays, modifying it at every
style after a gossip with some herdsman or
pig-jobber, whomever he might meet, return-
ing through the cold, spring evening, when
the stars shine brightly through the naked
trees, licking his lips, appreciating the fine
flavor of some drunkard’s oath or blas-
phemy.”
He collected some hundred turns of speech
in the West, and from different classes, and
these, he was able to work up together,
creating what amounted practically to a
sr ? l an guage understandable by everybody
who knows English, but sufficiently far re-
moved from ordinary speech to give his
plays an air that none others have—that air
of aloofness, of art, which we all deem neces-
sary, though we, differ as to how it may be
obtained. Synge had listened more atten-
tively than Lady Gregory, and had discov-
ered that it was possible to write beautifully
in peasant idiom. Everybody could write it.
Lady Gregory as well as another, but*no one
but Synge could write beautifully in it.
Yet we must get it into our heads that
the Abbey Theatre would have come to
naught but for Lady Gregory’s talent for roll-
ing up little anecdotes into one-act plavs.
She never would have written a play
if she had not met Yeats, nor would
Synge, who is now looked upon as an artist
as great as Donatello or Benvenuto
Cellini, and perhaps I should have not
have written The Lake or The Untitled
Field, or the book I am now writing. So
all the Irish movement rose out of Yeats
and returns to Yeats. . . .We hake all wanted
repertory theatres and art theatres and lite-
rary theatres, but these words are vain
words ind mean nothing. Yeats knew ex-
actly what lie wanted; he wanted a folk
theatre, for if Ireland was ever to produce
any literature he knew that it would have
to begin in folk, and he has had his reward.
Ireland speaks for the first time in litera-
ture in the Abbey Theatre.
A vivid portrait of James Stephens fol-
lows, his discovery„ by his strange
literary protnise. Then came some amaz-
ingly frank confessions of Moore’s thoughts
when, “at 46 or thereabouts, one begins to
feel that one’s time for love is over, one is
consultant rather than practitioner.” What
happened, Moore pleasantly explains, is that
he loved a woman who had too much love to
give; and Moore insists that “men have died
of love,” and asserts that he very nearly did.
And when the lady told him that she was
thinking of being married (to the other
man) Moore was unduly elated, “and tried
to assume the interest that a friend should.”
’ ' j*
Let us hastily conclude—this page is not
allowed to be as frank as George Moore may
be —by his swan-song of love: —
Love’s period is over for me. Life is for
ever changing, and very little remains after
5U for a man, and still less for a woman. We
are for ever dying. Woolly bear is suc-
ceeded by the cricket-bat, tlie bat is followed
by the rod, the gun, the horse, the girl, and
between 50 and 60 we discover that our love-
life is over and done. Our interest in sex,
however, remains the same, but it is an intel-
lectual interest, changed, transformed, lifted
out of the flesh. Our eyes follow the move-
ment of the body under the silken gown, a
well-turned neck and shapely bosom please
us, and we like to look into the feminine
eyes and read the feminine soul; but we do
not kiss the point of white shoulders when
thoughtless ladies lead us away after dinner
into a corner of the shadowy drawing-room
and cry in our ears, “No, all is not over yet.”
The question for English literature now
is: “After Vale, what?”
April
Like her spring sister in England, our
autumn April is a maid of many moods. Her
waywardness has appealed to many of our
sonneteers. There were 43 singers of
our April, several of whom merely sent in
14 lines of anticipation of the coming glories
of football. Sonnets of medium quality were
forwarded by: Ben Sun, “The Maorilander,”
lhos. V. Tierney (who uses the antique
locution what time” for the less pretentious
T when” twice in his octette), George It. H.,
L - J- Villiers, L. A. Roylett and II. C. Bailey.
lv. G. Henderson fails to develop his fine
theme to its logical conclusion, but thus far
he is allowed to appear in print:—
Ihe SDlash of sunlight in the dusty street
Is paler than of yore; the nut’s straw hat
Is being replaced by the black bowler that
Symbols dark winter’s triumph o’er the heat.
The town is full of country folk who bleat
Wonder at thin Culwulla or the fat,
Brick splendor at the Railway ; now the bat
Gets six months off, and big Australian feet
Attack the flatulent leather
cultural Jim ’” k° wever > is pleasantly agri-
It’s blokesi like me as gives th’ real glad eye,
Ter smilm little April w’en she ’ops
Along ter see ’ow goes it with me crops,
Rn turns th tap on if they’re lookin’ dry
Shes sweet, too, at th’ tap-trick on th’ sly.
i ea L e , me coat s he kids me, then she flops
Th fluid down in great big shiny drops,
Bn coolly smiles en’ winks th’ other eye.
Th’ missis, too, is glad as glad kin be,
Fer sunny April ’s coaxed ’er ’ens ter lay,
En all er plants is up ’n’ lookin’ wel).
bhe sez the’ll soon be greens fer ’er V me
Bn if th’ bleedin’ grubs ’ll keep away,
one opes ter raise er root er two ter sell.
The nearly-but-not-quite competitors com-
\ J vurra l°ng, JFtuth Monteagie Yarley.
B. C. Marriott Watson (“The Austral sun-
shine of an April day”), Mary A. K. Robb,
L. Sparrow, Duncan Brown, A. Gore-Jones
and Abneas Hayseed, with a fine ending:—
While softly parting to the polished share,
As all too swiftly speeds the mellow day,
Warm mother earth her kindly breast lays bare.
k.A.G. s octette is too loosely constructed
to match his excellent sestette
And_ here and there perspiring teams bestain
3 S' reen «>at with choc’late spots of brown,
While boisterous winds a wet witji sleety rain
From ever-changing quarters sweep adown:
The springy earth becomes the fecund plain
Aset with jewels from April’s leaden crown.
t ive sonnets are left in for the final heat •
Nina by M ha i le i F ‘ T * ,ettin ger, one each by
“Kuaka” 1 Tn C b- B^ bert Tra cey and
p" 1 . a - , II I bis first sonnet Charles F
El Z ger i le , ads Up - t0 anticlimax; but
bis second attempt is charming, simple, true :
U0W1 die he dlm 9ullies wh ere the mists last
Broods the chill spirit of a coming May •
wLf tke u P lands n °w are softly gay
nUaV'T t° P r d as 7 April lales ly-
Ihe pallid gold of wattles soon to lie
Almst lrTJjn°% hV J he hushland way;
jJVl l °heha on its stem a-sic ay;
And here a Mue-lell vieing with the slcy
!ii?t
A-pril lias ta’en my heart and burdened flees
Among the mists at sound of young May's
voice.
Charles F. Pettinger.
“Kuaka’s” sonnet personifies April charm-
ingly:—
Still Lady April bears her old-world fame
Of fickleness, of sudden shine and shower,
And wayward fancies, changeful as the
hour
That brings the dawn. The sun-king's loan-
ing flame,
Like golden mantle wrought for queenly
dame, ! . ■
Enfolds her gently. From her ruddy bower
She sees the red fruit fall, while storm-
clouds lower,
And sighing winds are whisp’rihg Winter’s
name.
0 Maid, ivhose tresses match the russet
leaves,
Whose eyes are azure as the seas at rest,
Why pause you now with sudden, shudd’ring
gasp?
Alas! you slowly pass as one that grieves ;
With tawny head on Autumn's shoulder
prest,
And warm, unwilling hand in Winter’s grasp.
Each of these sonnets is worthy of the
prize, were the competition not so keen.
Herbert Tracey and Nina Murdoch are
left. The latter, as usual, paints the more
vivid picture, but the sense of her final
image does not bear analysis. There
is some confusion in its expression. Why
should the year slip unnoticed past her
prime because April has stolen the “golden"
heart of some great woman? Herbert
Tracey’s sonnet finely expresses a striking
and appropriate idea in his octette, reflected
in his sestette, and his final metaphor is
happily Australian. The “bloodhounds,”
however, are a flaw. And with two sonnets
thus approximately equal, the prize is given
to the sonneteer who has hitherto failed to
win: Herbert Tracey, Leura, Eastern-
avenue, Kensington, Sydney. This does not
mean that past winners in this series of
competitions are barred. Had Nina Mur-
doch’s sonnet been better it would have
won.
Carols the magpie, “Lo, again ’tis Spring!”
For tipped with green is each pittosporum
tree,
And, on the heath, boronias pinlc ioith glee
Laugh to the sun, and on the breezes fling
Their pungent scent. A swift kingfisher’s
wing
Is not more purple-green than gleams the
sea,
Yet, like a sad loord dropped unwittingly,
The wind blows keenly with a sudden sting.
The year’s decline with you has had no part,
O autumn April with the vernal face,
Is it a compact you have made with Time,
Or haply did you steal the golden heart
Of come great woman, so with mellow grace
The year might slip unnoticed past her
prime?
Nina Murdoch.
APRIL.
By Herbert Tracey.
Didst hear a stirring in the trees last night?
Eerie and low it came, and went again,
But long the gaunt gums groaned like souls
in pain!
Was it the Ghost of Summer taking flight?
’Tis sa/id that often when the stars are bright
It strives to woo fair April—but in vain —
The night-winds chase their quarry o’er the
plain,
And come like bloodhounds, dripping, from
the fight.
There is a portent in the pastel sky
Of wind, and drear discomfort, lurking near.
The mist-wrapped dawn wakes heavy eyed
each day
But turns to softened sunshine, warm and
clear;
And Autumn, frisking like the lamb at play,
Heeds not the Dingo, Winter, creeping nigh.
Entries, addressed to this page, for the
sonnet on our Australian May must be re-
ceived by June 4.
Interesting to N.S.W. by reason of his
Lieut.-Governorship of this State, is the
Life of Admiral Sir Harry Rawson, by
Geoffrey Rawson (Arnold; 12s. 6d. in Eng-
land.) Rawson had an interesting and
adventurous career in the navy, ultimately
rising to the command of the Channel squad-
ron. His sojourn in N.S.W. is the subject
of two uninformative chapters.
His prodigious strength loosed the other’s
hold. “Stand back!” she cried. “I am his
wretched, unhappy wife!” “Are you man
or devil?” His eyes caught sight of Ed-
ward’s face. A frightful change came over
his countenance. The two combatants went
headlong over the cliff. From these titles to
the illustrations -of Tools of Satan, by Lan-
celot Booth (N.S.W. Bookstall Co.) the
reader can gather that he is in for an excit-
ing time.
The Rymballade competition will close on
May 30. Full particulars of this guinea
competition in a new form of verse were
given on Bed Page, April 16.
Dorg.
Robert Kaleski is to be congratulated. Ilis
Australian Barkers and Biters (N.S.W.
Bookstall, Is.) is good-Australese. He
writes, disguising his expert knowledge of
Australian dogs under a light and colloquia
style, of the kelpie, the dingo, the cattle-dog
the barb, the bush greyhound, the kangaro
dog and the beagle. In itself this sectio
is a condensed encyclopaedia of Borg; bn
he overflows with information and goo
“Abo” yarns of cat-fights, cock-fights, buck
jumping and racehorses. Some sample
that lighten a book that needs ho aeration :
“I have never seen any kelpie come up t
a little black and tan bitch I had once. In
her spare time she used her kennel for yard-
ing gohannas and frill lizards, keeping a big
pickle bottle specially for snakes. On
morning early -I heard a fearful row at th
yards, went down to see about it, and found
she had yarded a small cherub in the killing
pen, wings and all. I intended to sell it t(
the museum, but it managed to bite through
the fencing wire I had fastened it with am
flew away. I have told Sarah to keep her
eyes open for another, but so far we ka,v<
had no luck. I don’t think they often coirn
round our way.
“The dingo will never be sajnted in tlm
Australian calendar, yet there are plenty of
butter-agents worse.
“If you want to annoy a dingo deeply, cal
him a dog.
“To bachelors thinking of matrimony, a
course of breaking in cattle-pups should be
invaluable.
“The best bit of show work I ever saw
was done by Quinn’s blue dog, Coil. He
worked the sheep faultlessly right through
to the pen; worked the audience up to a
white heat of excitement; then worked the
three judges into the bar, and up to a bottle
of whisky.
“Some hush greyhounds are very fast and
determined. I had a pair once got away
after a very big old hare, and never came
home again. A week afterwards, a skin-
getter from the back gullies told me he had
seen what looked like the end of a hare’s
tail bounding through the scrub, hotly pur-
sued by a yellow front paw and a brindle
hind one; so they must be worn out alto-
gether by this time.”
For some,reason or other, probably in the
interests of art, the book is illustrated.
• i
Michael Macdonagh, in The Reporters'
Gallery (I-lodder and Stoughton, per Angus
and Robertson, 14s. 6d. here) interestingly
traces the strange history of the growth of
the reporters’ gallery from its birth, when
the reporting of debates was looked upon
by a Parliament jealous of its dignity as an
evil thing to be punished by fines and im-
prisonments, to its final recognition as an
essential part of representative assemblies,
as, indeed, the chief safeguard in the realm
for honest government. The ground has
been covered with an earnest thoroughness;
and the comparative neglect by historians of
this phase of the battle of the Press against
Parliament gives this volume its value.
The first part of the third volume of J. H. Maiden’s
Critical Revision of the Genus Eucalyptus (2s. 6d.)
has come to hand. The eucalyptus looks like becom-
ing a numerous family.
Under the auspices of the Australian His-
torical Society, James R., Tyrrell, Sydney,
publishes in magazine form the first of a
series of P.ceps at the Past. This comprises
the. republication of various interesting
incidents of our early history that appeared
weekly during 1909-10 in the Sydney Sun.
Much of the information given is scrappy,
but for this reason it is much more likely to
be read by the. general reader than sought
laboriously for in the heavy pages of an offi-
cial liistorv. And many N of the articles con-
tain new data gained by the Australian His-
torical Society. This useful publication is
illustrated.


w aae
JjUCi/L
m
(rfa/v
v
SP
vr
tfS
Zb/tio
Kt
i m
*....
HI
8 89
.V
M
■MS
CM
■'-V
Delia
2?
% ,
*C|.'
r if,
<fiIABLb
353
Vodka
njR3
ar
fdi
Hyra
Kathleen
fiOSd
%
Ivy
A ill
4**
s
r
Berwick,
* v/
nervy n
Barbar
\ Dorothy
Betty
THE FURS ILLUSTRATED.
The Rita. — Stylish Black Hare Necklet, with Head
and Tails, lined Satin 6/11
Similar style in White 6/11
The Lucille. —Fashionable Russian Squirrel
Necklet, eight whole skins, Heads and Tails.. 42/-
The Clare.—lmitation Ermine Collar, lined White
Satin with ruching of same, Bow and Silk Fringe
Tassel 7/6
The Lottie.—Stone Marten Necklet, very fine whole
single skin, finished Head and Tail 79/6, 89/6 99/6
The Olga.—Single Strand Squirrel Throwover,
eight fine Dark Grey whole skins, with tails and paws 42/-
The Thora.—Black Wolf Throwover, 70 inches,
bright Silky skins with brushes and paws, lined
Satin 59/6, 99/6
Open shape single skin Muff to match 29/6, 42/-, 59/6
The Claremont.—Black Foxaline Set, cape shape
Stole with tails and paws back and front, lined soft
Silk 27/6
Opened Muff, finished Head and Tails, 12/6; Larger sizes,
Stoles, 32/6; Muffs 15/6 to 25/-
The Delia.—Effective Cream Thibet Set, Throw-
over Stole, pillow shape Muffs, lined Satin to match,
53/6. Or Stole only 29/6
The Vodka.—Black Alaska Fox Necklet, single
skin with head, brush and paws,
49/6, 52/6 to £6/19/6
Muffs to match, pillow or open.... 63/- to £lO/10/-
The Sylvia. — Stone Marten Stole, two large, selected
skins, mounted with head, tails, and paws, lined Satin
to match,. . £B/8/-, £B/19/6; £9/9/-, £lO/10./-
The Kathleen. — Black Sealette Set; Throwover stole,
78in. long, Pillow Muff to Matyh 16/6 set.
Stoles only * 7/6, 8/6
The Ida. — Sable Dyed Fitch Necklet, 4 large bright
Skins, finished Head at clasp, Tails and Paws.... 39/6
The Ivy. — Squirrel Necklet, 5 whole skins, 3 Tails,
clasps with Head 19/6
The Myra. — -Black Foxaline Necklet, with Heads
and Tails, lined Satin 8/6
Open Muff to match, with Head and Brush 7/11
The Rosa. — Dainty Squirrel Necklet, 8 whole Skins,
with Head and Tails 35 /-
5-Skin ditto 19/6, 25/6, 29/6, 32/6
The Mervyn.—Mole Throwover and Pillow Muff
Set. lined, Squirrel Stoles only 39/6, 59/6, 73/6
Muffs 45/-, 63/-, 72/6
The Dorothy.—Black Foxaline Cape Shape Stole,
with Heads and Brush at back, lined Satin... ... 32/6
Muff to match, open shape 25/6
The Betty. — Charming Squirrel Necklet, 6 large,
Dark Grey whole Russian Skins 35/9
Paler Skins 29/6, 33/6
The Barbara, — Coney Seal Set, Stole, 90in. lined
Satin, 39/6; smaller, 35/-; Muffs, 25/6, 32/6,
42/-; Striped Stoles 29/6, 45/-
The Berwick. — Cape Shape Marmot Stole, Sable
dyed soft bright Skins, lined Satin, 29/6, 37/6, 42/-
49/6, 59/6, 63/- Muff to match, with Heads and
Tails, 23/6, 29/6. Throwover Marmots,
15/6, 22/6, 24/6, 32/6, 35/-
Fashionable FURS
... at ...
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
THE Furs illustrated on this page
comprise a selection from the
Magnificent Collection of inex-
pensive sets shown in the Green
Room at the New Palace Emporium.
These charming little Stoles and Muffs
are faultless as to style and finish,
and are made from selected skins,
offering far and away the best value
in the land. Many other Fur Sets, as
well as Smart Winter Frocks, Evening
Gowns, Coats, Skirts, and the
Newest Millinery Modes, are illustrated
in our Winter Fashion Portfolio.
Write for a copy, post free on request.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace £,xxvpori\iia.
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S'.W.


m
Hunting Rifles
The Choice Of All Sports-
men Of Experience.
The name “Winchester”
on a rifle is a guarantee of
its accurate and strong shoot-
ing qualities, entire reliability
of action and superior finish.
Winchester rifles represent in
accuracy, reliability and quality
the highest development in gun
making. No matter what you
hunt there is a Winchester
made suitable for your purpose.
Whichever model you select,
you will find that it will stand
the rough, hard usage that
hunting rifles often receive.
Winchester rifles are mechani-
cally correct in design, are made
of selected and tested materials
under skillful supervision.
Every rifle is thoroughly tested
in every way before it leaves the
works. Nothing is omitted in
their manufacture that will
make Winchester rifles shoot
well, wear well and look well.
Winch cater Guns and
Ammunition The w
Brand—Are Made for Each
Other and Sold Everywhere.
wm.
>M
j 9
ti... m-
m
%
4*.
y
yf
*
Another
Ed ison Phonograph
Amberola V.
m
Co to your nearest Ellison dealer and ask to hear the Amberola V.,
the latest member of the Amberola family.
The Amberola V. is the result of two years’ work in the study of
acoustics to produce a medium-priced Phonograph with concealed
horn that would produce sound clearly and with a pure, natural
tone,
Ihe cabinet is of handsome design, nicely finished in mahogany,
highly polished, and of the finest workmanship. Tts mechanism,
so far as the motor is concerned, is similar to that of the other
Amberolas.
the Ambeiola is furnished with the Diamond Reproducer, and
plays Blue Amberol Records, Ft will also play the Edison Wax
Ambeiol Kecoids if a Sapphire Reproducer is used, and thus the
whole Edison Amberol Catalogue is opened up to the purchaser of
an Amberola V.
Amberola V. Possesses
one obvious advantage.
-ensuring only 164 x 164 x 22 inches, and being - comparatively light in
weight, this phonograph may be moved about from one room to another with
r!i CfU <as< ‘, } ier, 'fore fulfils a double purpose in being in every respect a
i honograph de luxe, and, at the same time, is most serviceable anywhere
should occasion arise.
. ..s mobility makes it a splendid machine to take away on a camping-out
jaunt, on the yachting expedition and similar excursions.
h ull particulars of this new member of the Amberola family are obtainable
at all Edison dealers, or direct from us.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only), 364=372 Kent Street, Sydney.
THIS NAN IS YOUNG
w-
AT 58 YEARS.
He is a
VITADATIO
Man,
therefore has the blood o’
youth and vitality in his veins.
This, notwithstanding the fact
that eighteen years ago he
was pronounced absolutely
incurable, suffering from that
terrible disease HYDATIDS.
He spent over £l,OOO in
doctors and medicines before
he took VITADATIO, which
thoroughly cured him, and he
has since made it his life’s
mission to introduce the
medicine that cured him to
other sufferers in most corners
of the earth where there is
suffering humanity.
Be a Vitadatio
Man Yourself.
It gives manly strength. It
makes you young and keeps
you young all the days of your
life, by purifying the blood
and removing all disease from the system. It will strengthen your nerves and give you
a compelling force which will enable you to fight the world.
In these enlightened times everyone knows that disease attacks the system owing
to a poor quality of the Blood, and as VITADATIO is a natural herbal blood maker
it has successfully cured :
LIVER AND KIDNEY DISEASES
TUMOUROUS GROWTHS
GALL STONES
INDIGESTION RHEUMATISM
NERVOUS DISORDERS
CHEST TROUBLES
BLADDER TROUBLES
SKIN DISEASES
Write for full particulars and testimonials ; state how you suffer, and I will give
you FREE ADVICE. VITADATIO is sold by Chemists and Stores.
S. A. PALMER, 439 FLINDERS LANE. MELBOURNE. VIC.
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRADE MARK SPLENDID 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra long range.
m
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/6. D.8.8.L. GUN, fitted with
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified steel barrels,
walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN EXCELLENT
KILLER. Holiday Price, £3/10/- D.8.8.L. GUN, choke and modified steel
barrels. Government Tested. THE FARMER’S FRIEND. Special Price,
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 22 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice and
light. A very accurate little weapon. THE YOUTH’S FAVORITE. Holiday
Price, 14/6. CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent ejector. Takes .22
long, .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best sellers. Holiday
Price, 18/6. Write for Our Catalogue.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Largest Importers of Arms and Ammunition in the Commonwealth
24-2-4 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Miss Agnes Murphy
The Brilliant Biographer of Madame Melba and
Organising Secretary of the Quinlan Opera Co.
writes her opinion of
CLEMENTS TONIC
Miss Agnes Murphy is well known, not alone in the distinguished
positions mentioned above, but also as a capable journalist of very
fine order. Her opinion of this splendid tonic medicine will be read
with interest by all those who tax their mental strength and nerves
daily.
43 Hotham Street, East Melbourne,
2/8/’l3.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“1 have sincere pleasure in informing you that I have found
Clements Tonic an excellent ancl most agreeable restorative after exhaus-
tion, due to over-work, and that as a brain and body-builder I can highly
commend it. _
“Organising Secretary of the Quinlan Opera Co.
Note.—All Chemists and Stores sell this Medicine for the relief
of Anaemia, Insomnia and Brain Fag.


Benger’s Food
is neither a pre°
digested food nor a
mixture of dried
milk and chemical
substances*
i
It is a natural food,
differing from all others
in combining the princi-
ples of natural <\ igestion.
These enable Benger’s
Food to be prepared
' to suit individual needs ;
to rest enfeebled di-
gestions, and nurse
them back to healthful
activity by regulated
stages.
With no other food
is this possible, and as
Benger’s Food never over-stimulates
as do many chemical foods, no re-
action follows
its use.
V
♦
Food
For Children,
INVALIDS and the AGED.
Hunger's Booklet—A little work of authority on
tile special feeding of Children. Invalids, and die
Aged, will be sent post free on application to:
BENGER'S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
„ .. Branch Offices—
NEW YORK (U.S.A) 92. William Ft. SYDNEY (N.S.W) 1-7, Pitt St
: T National Dru<? & Chemical Co., Ltd.,
34, ot. Gabriel Street, Montreal, and Branch, s throughout Canada
IB9A
Are you among those who
reason in this fashion:
“ All this talk about ‘ Acid-
Mouth’ may be all right—
but it dosen’t apply to me.
I haven’t got ‘Acid-Mouth,’
1 take scrupulous care of
my teeth.”
Let us put this question to
you : “ How do you know
you aren’t among the 19
out of every 20 who do
have ‘ Acid-Mouth?’ Have
you tried the ‘ Acid-Mouth
test ?’
m
“If you want to have the best chance
in the world to keep your teeth for
life —use Pebeco Tooth Paste.”
Pebeco Tooth Paste does all that
ordinary dentifrices do —cleans, whitens
and polishes teeth beautifully. In
addition it stops 95 per cent, of all
tooth-decay by neutralizing “Acid-
Mouth.”
Send 3d stamps for sample tube and
interesting test of Acid-mouth. Of
all Chemists.
G. ARNOLD, 6 O’Connell Street,
Sydney (wholesale only).
I©
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
.
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
-MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
A>is. Rep.—T. Nicholls, e/o Sydney Agents.
THE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in Tiie Lone Hand each month.
Price fid/
Bonning ton’s
For the VOICE *
THROAT (EL LUNGS
I ossess many of the unique nnd valuable curative properties of B mnington’s Ir'sli Moss.
They afford immediaierelief in case of Sore or Relaxed Throat, L ss of Voice. Husktness,
Spasmod cCough. BronchuilTrouble etc. Whilst soothing and antisepticin their action,
these Jubes are entirely free from all poisonous or other harmful substances.
Y/U C
7;
YAs.
s S'
Y<y
&
yS
A PLEASANT AND EFFECTIVE COUCH PASTILLE
SUITABLE FOR BOTH ADULTS AND CHILDREN
BONNINGTON’S JURE?! are highly recom-
mended for use by Public speakers and
Singers. The Travelling Public will also find
them the best and most convenient Throat,
Pastille. SOLD EVERYWHERE
Price, 1/3 per tin
If not obtainable locally, send price in
stamps to
Bonnington &. Co., Ltd.
179 Harris street - - sydney
RUNKENNESS CURED
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard —secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can he taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Send 2d. stain]) for FREE
SAMPLE and full particulars, or, if you desire to commence treatment
without delay, send 10/6 for supply.
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., Dept B. 2011, Pitt Street. Sydney.
vttv
MAKE UP YOUR
MIND TO HAVE
A PERFECT
BUST
There are to-da.y hundreds of women who were once thin, flat-
bosomed, hollow-cheeked and generally scraggly in appearance, and
suffering the effects of anarnia and defective digestion, who are now for
the first time in their lives healthy, full-bosomed and pink-cheeked, and
enjoying the full vigor of robust womanhood, as the result of a few
weeks under our wonderful
" FLESH-FOOD ” TREATMENT.
Many women whose figures have been spoiled by maternal duties
have been entirely restored to splendid form, and flat-chested young
women who suffered slow development have had the fault corrected by
this treatment with lasting effect.
Flesh-Food is totally harmless in every respect. Its efficacy is
beyond question, and its use no demand upon the subject’s time. Many
cases gained up to six pounds a week, and an increase in bust measure-
ment up to 8 and 10 inches. Guarantee given in every case.
ANY WOMAN who lacks good bust development lacks the one essential that creates a perfect
appearance. Lack of proper bust development, hollow cheeks and “salt-cellars” quickly take from
a woman the bloom and freshness of healthy womanhood. Misfortune may have been your lot in
so far as natural development is concerned, but science has found a way to correct your deficiency,
liven though you have never been full-bosomed, and though you have been attenuated all your life,
if you suffer from no wasting disease, your bosom can be fully developed and your weight increased
to normal. /T HAS BEEN D&NE FOR THOUSANDS WHY NOT YOU?
You can readily see the effect of an increase in your weight or measurements. It is not neces-
sary to imagine you are being benefited. See what Miss M. BOURKE, of Tam worth, says
“Yours to hand, and am pleased to state that your treatment increased my
weight considerably over two stone, and my bust measurements by several
inches. Since using it I am much better in health, and my llesli is now firm
and I feel stronger and more vigorous. I thank you for the trouble you have
taken, and am grateful for all you have done for me.”
We publish an interesting book on the subject of attenuation and develop-
ment, and will send same and a FREE SAMPLE TREATMENT to you FREE
OF CHARGE upon receipt of a 2d. stamp to pay part postage. All communica-
tions private and confidential. Write or call to-day for full particulars. [lBlB
FALLIEKE FLESH-LOCO CO.. 11U3 ASH STREET. SYONEY.
FREE
SAMPLE
<6
Ideal for
Australian
Roads.
m
CYCLES AND MOTOR CYCLES,
f
fcv
Victoria: MILLEDGE BROS., 264 Port Office Place, Melbourne.
New South Wales: BENNETT & BARKELL LTD., 130-132 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
South Australia: J. HILL & SONS, Representatives, 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
EYES & CROWLE, Local Distributors, 125 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
West Australia: THE ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Hay Street, Perth.
Queensland : THE HOWARD MOTOR & CYCLE CO., LTD., 376-8 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Tasmania: .T. BILYARD. The Havelock Cycle and Motor Works, 141 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W.,
writes: —
“it gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Soz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since 1 last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke, therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizzi-
ness, Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which 1
have every reason to believe were caused through the
use of tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are
only remembered as a hideous nightmare. I eat
and sleep well, and feel lit to face the world again.
Tt will give me srreat pleasure to recommend vonr
remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
107 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
[i-
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
seud you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
thu reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
T ESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
Slou ij rea d the British Austra-
lasian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Leading Room at the offices. 115 High Hnl-
born. London, W.C.. whore they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Dryads of the Blue Gums.
The bush has many dryad-bands, and all are
meet for love.
From the golden-headed little maids that
haunt the wattle-grove
To those proud, sad-hearted dwellers in the
sheoaks dark and tall —
But the dryads of the blue gums are the
fairest of them all.
A few are brown as Tongan girls, but most
are whiter far,
With a luminous, smooth whiteness, than
our mortal women are.
And Oh ! the woods are full of them ; for only
yesterday
I sat alone a little while ‘Mid watched them
at their play.
My trampling through the fern had scared
them silent, and they drew
Around their bodies, slim and pale, their
filmy scarves of blue
(But are those soft scarves blue or pink or
purple, who can say?
They change beneath our very eyes from
violet to grey,
Elusive as that shadow-dance of lavender
which falls
From tossing branches, in the spring, upon
smooth, whitened walls.)
But soon those nymphs forgot me finite and
thought they were alone,
For they were still and very still, but I was
still as stone;
So they began to dance again, with milky
arms upflung
And murmured magic singing in their own
sweet unknown tongue.
Now, blinded with their beauty’s light, how
can I tell it plain,
Their swaying, stooping, soaring grace I
fain would watch again?
Though close they leaned, their veils half-
dropped, and I could see their eyes
That are as green as beryl-stones, as grey
as rainy skies,
I cannot bring the wonder home, nor keep
it clear and free,
A talisman of green and grey—it fades in
spite of me.
At night when all the wild things wake,
these dryads are not shy
(They have small need for any sleep, their j
days go softly by).
Across the clearness of the sky, with small
pale stars bestrewn,
Above a silver forest lone there rides the
naked moon.
The dryads of the blue gums all are danc-
ing in her light—- |
Oh wistful, laughing, lovely ones, so radi- I
antly white,
Clear let me keep the sight of you to guard
me as a charm.
A green and silver talisman to hold my
heart from harm!
N.S.VV.
DOROTHEA MACKELLAR.
The Fount of Youth.
If the olden bards spoke truth
There was once a fount of youth ;
Whoso drank thereof, ’twas sung,
Lived and loved, for ever young.
Never grim, corroding cares
Brought them scant and whitened hairs,
Stooping shoulders, palsied gait,
Sloping to the senile state.
Never testy mood and whim,
Gouty foot and eyesight dim,
Wheezy breath and rheumy tears.
Damped their mirth and dulled their ears.
But for each the bursting bud
Boused their pulses into flood,
While new hopes, on pinions bright.
Sprang from promise to delight.
Just beyond their skyline lay
Glories of a lordlier day—'
Spires and minarets of gold.
Magic wealth of dreams untold !
Age, that never quaffed their cup.
Your mischance was waking up ;
Waking to the sordid scheme —
Had you drunk you still might dream !
Age, that sees all earth decayed—
Fortunes fail, and fashions'fade.
Falsehoods vain, and actions mean—
Death attending every scene ;
Had you drunk that magic draught
You had sung, and danced, and laughed ;
Never waning to the sere
Yellow autumn of the year.
You had tripped, a happy sprite,
Through a world of flowers and light.
Careless as the leaves that fall,
Counting life the best of all;
Action, airy loves and strife,
These had summed your lore of life;
All your thought, and all your time,
Drifting like a mazy rhyme.
Drear and dull are all the schools—
Paradise has happier fools—
Pedagogue and crabbed seer
Never drank these waters clear!
Therefore cherish what remains
Of the drops the shard contains.
Which, so olden hards have sung.
Make the soul for ever young.
Better than a sea of truth
Is that old elixir. Youth;
Drain it not with careless haste
Lest you perish on the was<o !
VICTORIA.
C. G. A. COLLES.


aron
DISCRIMINATE: To distinguish by observing differences.
That's why discriminating smokers appreciate
the rare qualities of SARONY Cigarettes.
In Turkish or Virginia. All Leading Tobacconists.
MaotifacUircd by NICOLAS SARONY & CO.,
New Boi)d Street, LONDON, W.
“Lister-Bruston”
Automatic
Electric
Lighting;
Plant
m
WHAT ARK YOU DOINCi FOR LIGHT
IN Yu UR HOTEL THIS WINTER?
Are you going to keep on with the old-
fashioned, unhealthy and expensive
methods, or will YOUR Hotel be splen-
didly and economically lit with Elec-
tricity ?
This Plant (as illustrated complete) gen-
erates Electricity automatically. The
Engine and Dynamo start themselves as
soon as the lights are switched on. No
costly battery is needed —the lights are
lit direct from the Dynamo.
The Plant is self-contained —not fixed
to the floor, and thus, as a ten-
ant’s fixture, can be
moved from place
to place. It is low
in cost and deliv-
ered practically
ready for connect-
ing up to the Hotel
Wiring.
May we talk it over
in your office or
write to you about
it?
AGENTS: N.5.W. —W. Q. WATSON & CO., LTD., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney-
VIC.—SUTHERLAND & ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—CLUTTERBUCK BROS., Adelaide.
r
m.
J
RAP! D
Mechanical Calculation
with insured accuracy and maximum speed
is obtainable only in the “Comptometer."
Whether addition, subtraction, division or
multiplication you have your answer in
plain view with .just the pressing of keys.
So light and compact that it may be
readily carried about as your work may
require. Saves time. Prevents errors
and gives entire freedom
from nervous and mental
strain. No toy, but is built
for real work.
m
ADDS —SUBTRACTS—
MULTIPLIES^—DIVIDES
in Pounds, Shillings, Pence and Farthings.
We . have prepared an interesting book entitled.
“Rapid Mechanical Calculations,” which we will
gladly send to anyone free on request.
FELT & TARRANT MFG. CO.,
London, New York, Chicago, Toronto, Paris, Berlin, Buenos Aires, etc.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS. —Peacock Bros., 214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
m
DINNEFORDS
DINNEFORD'S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In nonsequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, (Sydney
£
X
Times Change, Weather Changes,
but the Quality of
PERDRIAU
Macintoshes
Always Remains the Same.
Send us your order to-day, we will guarantee
satisfaction.
MEN’S MACINTOSHES.
Range G.—Brown, Olive, Fawn and Grey
shades:
“DERBY” 35/-
“RAGLAN” 37/6
WOMEN’S MACINTOSHES.
Range EE.—Blue, Green and Brown shades:
“RAGLAN” 25/-
Every Coat guaranteed absolutely water-
proof.
Patterns of matt , inis and Illustrated Cata-
logue No. 85 Post Free on request.
m
RUBBER
CO. LTD.
270 George Street, Sydney.
105 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
67a Gawler Place, Adelaide.
307 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
*\ '<s
e is />
i Aa4l
m
Underwear.
Don’t choose your underwear at random;
let reason be your guide.
Buy Jason for these reasons:
Jason is all pure Australasian-wool; is absolutely unshrink-
able ; is as soft as silk in wear; is most comfortable:
is perfectly f .shioned : i 3 good wearing.
Once you have worn Jason you w 11 reabse how comfortable underwear
can be. And you have the makers’ guarantee—if any garment
shrinks it will be replaced free of cost.
Jason Underwear is made in all styles and prices for men,
ladies and children. Infants’ “Pure While Wear in light
and medium Weights. Jason Jerseys for children wear
splendidly. If your dealer does not stock Jason insist
upon his getting it for you.
In case of difficulty, write
JASON UNDERWEAR CO., Leicester, England.
Price of
Chassis,
£4OO
%£.
\X!»
\v'f
s
CHEAP
for Storekeepers, Tradesmen,
Mail Contractors and The
The Willys Utility Trucks win out because they will
carry goods or produce at a fraction of the cost
of horse haulage. They are of special service to
the Tradesman, Hotelkeeper, Mail Contractor and
the Man on the Land, for they are ready for the
road at any time and will work the whole of the 24
hours of the day, if required.
The Willys Utility Trucks run well on hilly, level,
rough or smooth roads at a high average speed on a
low fuel consumption—tests have proved them
capable of doing 18 miles on a gallon of spirit.
Built to stand the most severe strain on heavy loads
and the worst road conditions, the Willys Utility
Trucks are handy vehicles for passengers, or goods,
or both combined
TRIAL DEMONSTRATIONS ARRANGED.
FREE CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
Important Points.
The Willy s Utility
Truck has an engine of
30h.p. with a speed of
18 miles per hour,
which the patent
sealed-governor pre-
vents a reckless driver
exceeding. The trans-
mission is of the selec-
tive sliding-gear type,
three speeds and re-
verse.
Simple Control-Spark
and Throttle levers on
steering column ; pow-
erful Hand and Foot
Brakes.
Tyres solid on rear and
pneumatic on front
wheels.
Dalgety and Company Ltd.
Motor Garage: 136-138 Phillip Street, Sydney
Also Agents for Halley and Commer Motor Lorries.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post) as a Newspaper.
v 01.35. 1787.
THURSDAY, MAY 14,1
*».«*
A LEAGUE OF BOY NARKS.
It is proposed (see leading art icle in this issue) that as the Australian boy has to carry the burden of defence he should also have a say in the expen-
diture. He is here depicted making announcement that he won’t be liable for his father’s permanent unproductive bor rowings.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: { f™ 0 \
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
fl 6s. Gd. per Annum, including Special
Christmas Number, post paid.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings and Sixpence Sterling you can have
The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused, by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, S000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the cr/py is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., ' 1,1,1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
29th' Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —Ignace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon— IF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at
4/6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in.
x ll/in., and gelatine transparencies will be for-
warded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired.
Postage Kates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: 8oz., Id. 8ioz.
1° 10oz., 2Id.; lOoz. to 12oz., 3d.; elsewhere, joz.,
Id., and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MAY 14, 1914.
A LEAGUE OF BOY NARKS.
In Australia these days the Boy is more of
an institution than he used to be. He can
no longer be whacked with the cheerful im-
punity of bysone days. He has rights that
were unknown when his toothless grand-
father was young. Wages Boards and such-
like institutions take cognisance of the fact
that he is upon the earth. He is strongly
urged to be a Boy Scout, and he is addressed
in whirling language on Empire Day—or he
used to be, but Empire Day is already almost
dead, and ivill soon be a mere bony remnant
—about his duty to the glorious conglomera-
tion of territories which repose in the shadow
of the throne of Geo. V. And, which is the
most important point of all, the Boy supplies
the bulk, if not the whole, of the compul-
sory army so far -as things have gone. If
war broke out to-morrow —the new defence
system being still very young—little Tommy
could be legally rushed to the front, while
—barring some exceptional legislation for a
levy en masse —his father and his uncle
and his bigeest brother could stay behind
and shout cheerfully at the football match.
The privileges of the Boy have increased
greatly, but so also have his responsibilities.
As one of his responsibilities, the habit of
leaving him the bill to pay, for .no reason
except that the incompetent old man can’t
be troubled, has grown to an enormous ex-
tent. And owing to the lavish extension of
the suffrage, ancient great-grandfathers in
the Benevolent Asylum, who used to be struck
off the roll, and who have hardly a shadow of
interest left in this world’s affairs, may now
be beguiled by flattery or cakes and ale to
vote for the robust candidate who promises
to borrow £8,500,000 a year for his own
glory and the better security of his own
billet, and to leave the whole burden of re-
payment to the Boy. The Boy, with his rifle
and bayonet in the right hand, and his
cannon under the right arm, and the account
for the old man’s profligacies in ' the left
hand, and the old man’s temporary and
unproductive works under the left arm, has
a lot to carry. To some extent the Boy in
this case includes the Girl. She doesn’t
carry the rifle and the cannon, but she
struggles with her share of the liabilities.
Last year the N.S.W. Government did
something heroic in the way of borrowing.
It raised, mostly in England, close on
£8,000,000. (This year it proposes to raise
more.) For a Ministry which attained to
ofiice on its solemn pledge, as a gentleman,
or a fraud, or a miserable liar and shuffler,
or something of the sort, that it would re-
duce borrowing, this is something remark-
able, because the borrowing that it pro-
mised to reduce was well below £3,000,000
a year. Out of £7,703,594 of loan money
actually expended during the year, £813.354
stood for works which even the N.S.W.
Government’s own Statistician didn’t dare,
however much his billet might be endan-
gered, to describe as “reproductive” in any
sense whatsoever. As regards the balance,
£4,618,907 was invested in Railways and
Tramways, which yielded so much less re-
turn every time an extra pound was in-
vested that the large profit formerly derived
from the Rail and Tram Department changed
into a loss. Incidentally, a process of de-
moralisation set in, and it became a common
jest that yesterday’s train might be expected
about the middle of next week, which is
perhaps the reason why the regular weekly
contributions of two of The Bulletin’s
Melbourne correspondents are 48 hours
behind time this week. Water Sup-
ply and Sewerage, which are fairly solvent
items, absorbed £1,595,093. And Harbors
and Rivers, which are wholly insolvent,
accounted for £676,180. None of that money
went to open up a really good harbor which
would be <jf value to the State, for a really
good harbor is liable to compete with Syd-
ney, where Holman and McGowen hang
out and have their political interests. The
borrowed coin was fooled away on shallow
river mouths, where the bar is dredged
away to-day and is silted up again to-
morrow, and where hyacinths and other
fresh-water weeds are making navigation
more and more impossible. As the outcome
of all this muddle, it was found necessary
to pile on nearly £2,000,000 a year of extra
taxation. All these were no small doings
for a party which was pledged, unless it was
a complete scoundrel and had no more prin-
ciple than a Chinaman of the lower orders,
to use no loan money except for works which
would pay full interest and sinking fund. On
top of all the other items were the overdraft
and the miscellaneous deficit. In a liberal,
off-hand fashion these things were left to the
Boy, who has no vote.
As the Boy carries the gun, it is up to
him to enter a protest. There is room for
a League of Boy Narks, which would really
be a much more practical and business-like
concern than a League of Boy Scouts. The
League should be founded right here and
now. Every male youth of the gun-
carrying age should be eligible to join
it, and every girl of similar age. The
business of the Boy Narks League should
be to explain to Coiienstein, abroad and
at home, that it won’t, when it comes of age,
be responsible for any debts incurred by the
unprincipled old man from this date onwards
unless these debts are represented by assets
that will yield enough to cover the interest.
In other words, the Boy who humps the
heat and burden of defence in the present,
and who is supposed to hump the dead horse
in the future, should intimate that he will
no longer drag around his progenitor’s
shady and unjust embarrassments. The pro-
genitor is much addicted to importing because
he is too lazy and unpatriotic to manufac-
ture on a big enough scale; and he
is addicted to going on strike because
he has either got swelled head and
is full of imaginary grievances, or
because he has made such a mess of his
system of government that a suspension of
industry is his only means of obtaining
redress against himself. These things the
old man, with the connivance and assent of
the old woman, has some right to do, though
it is rough on the old woman, for she is very
seldom consulted. But when the old man
sells the public estate, which is the property
of the whole community for all time, and
uses the proceeds as his own revenue, he is
doing something that no gentleman should
do. When he makes the Boy carry the gun
for the defence of the country and all its
contents, he begins to look very much like a
cur. And when, in a single year, in the
single State of N.S.W., he bands down to
the Boy a bill for nearly £8,000.000 of fresh
loans, with nothing save a huge deficit to
set against the interest charge, the old man
looks very’like a common confidence trick, or
a slave-dealer who sells his children for
tobacco and drink and football money. In-
cidentally, the old man in Westralia is an
even more violent borrower, in nrooortion
to population, than the one in N.S.W. But
the Westralian person has this shred of
decency: He attaches a sinking fund to everv
loan and does some of the repayment himself.
The possibilities of the Boy Nark as a
political force have not yet been realised. A
vast society might be. formed out of the
young people who have become old enough
to take up the rifle and the bayonet, and yet
are not old enough to vote. These folk, in
the hands of a Baden Powell or a Dan
O’Connor, or a brilliant lunatic, might be a
power. They would simply explain that,
when a sufficient number of them came of
age to control affairs, they would hold an
audit of the accounts of their miserable and
shuffling parents, and pay as much as was
fair, but no more. When the middle-aged and
drill-shirking father Smith and uncle Smith
combine with grandfather Smith —now in
his dotage and tottering on his last legs—to
put the name of grandson Smith on the back
of an I O U, and use the proceeds for pur-
poses which leave no visible good behind
'them —well, it is up to grandson Smith to
say plainly that the dust of the borrower
and the bones of the lender may settle the
matter between them. Grandson Smith has
every justification, in certain circumstances
and provided he gives due notice, to repudiate
the signature which he didn’t write, but
which certain dreadful ancestors wrote for
him. An announcement of audit and possi-
ble repudiation, served on the universal
money-lender by a numerous body of Boy
Narks, would make the financier pause in his
headlong career. It would supply him with
new ideas. Hitherto he has fancied that he
could take as security the flesh and blood,
the body and soul, of everybody under the
voting age, and regard the security as good.
But now that the voteless, under-age Aus-
tralian of the present generation is the only
legitimate and autlioidsed and compulsory
defender of his country, he has some right
to say that he won’t be sold like a naked
cow in the market.
THE NIGGER AND THE NORTH
The same old sidelong crawl after colored
labor in the Northern Territory ap-
peared again last week in the Syd-
ney Telegraph —the sidelong, crab-like lit-
erary dodge which may end in selling half
Australia, or all Australia, to the heathen,
unless something of a plain, simple, business-
like character is done. It isn’t necessary to
attempt anything extraordinary to avert
the crawl. All that wants doing is the ob-
vious—the matter that is sticking out —the
sort of affair which is perpetrated anywhere
else in the humble course of affairs. As
matters stand, the Fisher Government
marooned a lot of new officials in a sort of
Robinson Crusoe isolation at the hottest
end of the Territory. It did this to de-
velop the place and to show the Govern-
ment’s energy, just as it might have sent a
librarian and an Egyptologist and a great
authority on Sanscrit and Chinese art and
Greek roots to Port Stephens or Coff’s Har-
bor or Jervis Bay (N.S.W.), for the same
good purpose. The Cook Government is
now recalling these men to'show its economy,
and between the energy on one side and the
economy on the other, the place gets very
little show. On this subject the Sydney
Telegraph spoke last week as follows:—
The cancellation of five official appointments in
the Northern Territory may be justified by the saving
of the £3250 a year that will result from it, but
the question is: What does 'the Government propose
to do next? The return south of these men will, it
is said, seriously diminish the official population of
the Territory. And seeing that the official popula-
tion constitutes the mainstay of the settlement, as it
dwindles, so must the rest of the community, which
lives largely on the money which the Government em-
ployees have to spend there. What this retrenchment
indicates is that the scheme of the late Government
for settling the Territory is now a demonstrated and
acknowledged failure. Instead of the official popula-
tion following ordinary settlement it went before,
and has been left there with practically nothing to
do. WHITE MEN WILL NOT FOLLOW TO DO
THE WORK that in other tropical countries is done
by coolies, even though special wage inducements are
offered, and in the absence of manual labor develop-
ment must remain at a standstill. . Briefly, that is
all the very expensive experiment tried by the late
Government, and continued by their successors, has
resulted in proving. And the beginning now made
with the dismantling of the useless official machinery
may be regarded as the admission of that fact. For
this retrenchment, indicating as it does the failure of
the settlement scheme, is bound to be followed by
more. The question, therefore, is: Has the Govern-
ment got an alternative scheme, and, if not, what is
proposed to be done with the white elephant of the
North?
There is always somewhere in this sort
of story the insinuation that colored labor
is the one thing that will save the Terri-
tory. White men, it is said, “will not fol-
low to do the work.” The question arises:
What work is there for them to do? The
Land Board at Darwin, sitting down amid a
complete absence of instructions, intimated
recently that it hadn’t yet prepared a scheme
to make some bits of soil available for selec-
tion. In the absence of instructions that
could hardly be called the Board’s fault. The
railway extension hasn’t started. The
man who grows things in the neighbor-
hood of Darwin depends on a very long and
very precarious steamboat service to get his
cabbages to market. The boat comes in
semi-occasionally, and stays a minute,
and flees. The man on the Roper
River depends on a wonderfully casual
ketch, or river craft, to get his produce even
as far as Darwin, and the vegetable is liable
to be three months old before it gets to a
great centre of population. Yet the fer-
tility of the Territory is such that Port
Darwin doesn’t get on any worse than Port
Stephens or Twofold Bay or Jervis Bay,
which are close alongside Sydney. On the
evidence of results, it is no more in want of
colored labor than they are. Moreover, it'
has tried colored labor on a bigger scale
than , any other province of Australia, and
with the result that the Tory press per-
sistently calls it a failure, a dead loss, a
white elephant, and a place that can only
be redeemed by drinking another cask of the
dog that bit it.
* * * *
There would be no reason to hurry and
fuss about the development of the Northern
Territory if it was possible to get a reliable
guarantee that no colored race would at-
tempt to take the place. It would develop
itself, at leisure, just as some other parts of
Australia did before the Colored Danger or
Yellow Peril developed, and just as England
and France and Germany did. There being
reason, however, to assume that it is desir-
able to put on a spurt, it seems a fair
thing to spurt. That can’t lie done
by sending a horse doctor, or a school inspec-
tor, or a digger-up of Scandinavian myths,
or an authority on old coats of mail out to.
the Back Yard of the Remote. They may
be good men in their line, but even the best
bookbinder or collector of stamps is of no
value about the upper waters of the Ama-
zon. The Territory is no worse than River-
ina was before roads and railways were
built, and Port Darwin is exactly the same
sort of incomprehensible white elephant that
Botany Bay was before the ’bus started run-
ning and the, tram-line was thought of.
Probably if the original Australian settle-
ment had been made on Port Stephens instead
of P.ort Jackson, the present site of Sydney
would be a similar elephant, and the Port
Stephens Telegraph would hold that only
abundant Chinese labor could make Potts
Point habitable.
* * * *
The disaster of the Territory is that it is
a sort of pawn in a political game. Most of
the country is high, cool, reasonably fertile,
well-watered, and altogether promising. But
it can’t be connected by railway with the
older settlements without connecting it with
some place. The straight line to which the
Australian Government is pledged can’t be
built without alienating votes in the East.
The proposed crooked deviation can’t be con-
structed without the loss of votes in the
Centre and West. So nothing is done save
the occasional despatch by an energetic Gov-
ernment of a Professor of Theological Bot-
any or a Lecturer on Dry Bones or some
person of the sort, by a three or four or five
weeks’ sea trip, to the tail of things, where
he is doomed to live among an Asiatic popu-
lation. And then there follows his occa-
sional recall by an economical Government,
which says that the Asiatics don’t require
any Theological Botany or any Lecturer on
Dr.v Jobs. So the Territory’s big port re-
mains not much better than Westernporf
CVic.) is to-day. The remedy is to take the
line of least resistance, and at present the
width of that line is exactly 4ft. 84in.
PANKHURSTIAN PHILOSOPHY.
The oration of “0.1 v.”
British suffragettery, represented by the pleasing
personality of Miss Adela Pankiiurst, had a lot
to say for itself at Melbourne Auditorium the other
night. Adela is a quite nice Pankiiurst of uncer-
tain age, with a winsome voice, a fluency of speech
inherited from her dauntless progenitor, and a good
sense of humor, which is so excellent and unusual
a thing in woman. Moreover, she doesn’t blow
the family trumpet. Within the limits of her ob-
session she is equally tactful and witty. She spoke
for an hour or more of suffragette performances, and
how they dated back to 1900, when two compara-
tively harmless women were slung out of a public
meeting for making less disturbance than is practised
with impunity by male hooligans at election times.
She misrepresented the Suffrage movement militant as
a belated rebellion of Everywoman against the injus-
tice suffered by women workers in comparison with
male ditto. She brought down the house by explain-
ing that the vandalism of militancy was woman’s
way of gaining a political -.end/ and that only by
injuring Cabinet Ministers inThgir precious dignity
could the suffragettes bring them to submission, see-
ing that men squirm under satire and purr under
flattery. And this she said with a -pitying smile at
man’s weakness, as though women, on lithe other hand,
despised flattery and accepted satire with pleasure.
Because they have been the coarse joke of the male
world in all ages and all society, therefore they don’t
mind being laughed at. “Women are used to such
ridicule,” said the gentle Adela. They are also
used to having men’s hats raised to them, to having
men’s seats in public vehicles given up to them, to
having all sorts of courtesies empty or solid paid to
them by the men whom they ridicule —but Miss
Pankiiurst said nothing of these things.
* * * *
Her speech was a pink tissue of partisanterie, em-
broidered with forget-me-nots of truth, edged with
sentimentality and tasselled with the striking sug-
gestion that a Unionist Government will, if the
Liberal Government gets souted at next election, ex-
tend the franchise to - womfen in order to silence
the militants and look-dignified. /Both the matter
and the manner of Miss P.’s interesting harangue
showed all the sexual egotism of the suffragette.
She never spoke of men save in a spirit of restrained
antagonism. She admitted no excuses for their
failures as workers, politicians, husbands, fathers or
sons. There were tears in her voice when she spoke
of long-suffering wives, self-sacrificing mothers, and
pale, wan factory girls, who sell their “souls” to
brutal man because they lack means to keep body
and soul together. But of hungry husbands and
henpecked fathers, striving to support the family
without the strength of maternal instinct to support
them in their unselfishness ; of the young men whose
prospects are ruined by their natural but unfortunate
infatuation for feather-brained gadabouts; of the
well-meaning lads whose characters are turned awry
by vicious flappers—of these suffering males the one-
sided Adela had not a word to say. They don’t
exist as far as she and her mother and sisters Sylvia
and Christabel are concerned. She lives in a world
where nobody suffers, except womankind.
Talking of the militants destroying works of art
she explained that no picture would be worth consid-
eration until every woman in creation could look ftie
picture of happiness in a picture hat, or balderdash
to that effect. Adela wa3 consistently illogical as
a matter of course. She pointed out the uselessness
of private members of the House of Commons,
describing them as mere, party voters (which they
are) incapable of effecting any reforms on their own
initiative, and all the while she was arguing that
woman’s happiness depended on the recognition of her
right to share in the foolishness of electing these
impotent members of Parliament. She gloried in
the fact that suffragettes were destroying letters in
pillar-boxes and playing h—l with national treasures
in public buildings, and were making responsible
politicians ridiculous in all men’s eyes.
But she never paused to admit that these militant
tactics, these “women’s ways” of agitating could
not have been pursued but for the allowances which
the Government made for the offenders in considera-
tion of their sex. The suffragettes’ policy of making
themselves a terror to the community has prospered
thus far because the Law has dealt sympathetically
with the hysterical felons for womanhood’s sake. They
think the iron hand of the Law has dealt roughly
with - them, and the mob has illused them, but they
have never experienced a sincere biff from the Law’s
straight left, or' known how nasty an English mob can
be.
Adela doesn’t admit the truth of the present ab-
surd situation in Britain, where no suffragettes have
been scared out of their militancy as they were in
Dublin, on the one and only occasion when they tried
to get a footing on Irish soil. Doubtless she is blind
to the truth of it. Her mind has but one eye which
is fixed ever upon the Cause, the whole Cause, and
nothing but the Cause. And what is the Cause?
Justice for women. Political equality with men.
The right to vote for useless M’s.P. with a view to
raising the average 7s. 4d. per week wage of women
workers to the average £1 Os. lid. per week wage
of the male worker, without consideration to the
difference in the sorts of labor, or the rights of
fathers to provide maintenance for wives and chil-
dren where there are means of support to be sued
for under man-made Law (Eve’s curses on its injus-
tice!), and without consideration of the economic
question whether the raising of women’s wages must
result in an average reduction of the men’s.
This is the political Cause for which Miss Pank-
tiurst and a few hundreds or thousands of energetic
women are agitating - as though the Millennium were
attached to it. They haven’t thus far persuaded the
vast unthinking majority of their own sex, or con-
vinced the deep-thinking minority of the other sex
that women are entitled to the franchise, or ever can
be entitled to it, until they qualify themselves as
sailors, roadrnakers, soldiers, pioneers and agricul-
turists, ship builders, miners, iron.workers, factorv
builders, machinery inventors and performers ot all
the great productive forms of labor which arc essen-
tial to the civilisation on which the system of Par-
liamentary government is founded. The suffragettes
who fail to win anybody to their Cause bv burning
a church would be unanswerable if they built a bridge
or constructed a railway. Every thoughtful Person
hopes for a steady improvement in the condition of the


masses of women and men workers, but no student
of Parliamentary history sees how the improvement
can be hastened by putting women on an equality
with men as regards the franchise.
* * *
Man makes practically everything that makes the
difference between savage and refined life. His
poetic brain has created the splendidly-false ideals
of womanhood from which social courtesies radiate.
It is the Y.M.C.A., not the Y.W.C.A , which
is about to inaugurate an annual Mothers Day a
holy feast of St. Mother —in this country, and
nobody asks, “What about poor Father”?
AVomen owe all the comforts, all the graces of
civilisation, to man’s initiative, enterprise and hard
labor. All the grinding poverty that Adela Pank-
hukst complains of is due to circumstances over
which the masses of men are beginning to obtain
control through unionism of labor, the advantages
whereof they have shown to women. Women in
English-speaki: g countries certainly get more than
a half share of all the luxurious home life and
public entertainment that is enjoyed by the wealthy
and “comfortably-off” classes. The Franchise could
not give them more. And in the sharing of life’s
worst hardships, taking all sorts of poverty and
shabby gentility together, who shall say that women
come worst off, and that their undue proportion of
suffering is due to their disfranchised state?
Adela Pankhurst may say so, but she is talking
from her fanaticism, not from her own or any
other woman’s experience. Here in Australia she
talks to women who have had the vote for years.
Well, under the influence of Woman Suffrage poli-
tical Government of the Commonwealth has come to
a standstill, with a fair prospect of staying there.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Woman Who was Dashed.
The Bulletin tries hard to live at peace
with all men, except public borrowers, anti-
Defence folk, and advocates of long hours,
low wages, land monopoly, big importations,
strikes and nigger labor; also, the indivi-
duals who say that the Northern Territory
is a hopeless proposition; likewise apostles
of Congestion, floaters of wild cats, wowsers,
bigots, rich clubmen who offer a Dreadnought
to Britain but don’t provide the money," and
a few dozen or hundred sundries. But at
times it finds its errand of mercy rather
burdensome, and one character who makes it
so is the Rev. Yarrington, of Sydney. As
an instance of its troubles with the Rev.
Yarrington, it quotes the following from a
daily paper of last Saturday:—
The Rev. S. D. Yarrington, organising secretary
of the Anglican Mission Zone Fund, speaking at a
largely-attended meeting at Hornsby yesterday after-
noon, said that the problems which faced the Church
were gigantic. Sydney, with its crowded and. con-
gested areas, wherein was found the undercurrent of
iniquity, with all its flotsam and jetsam, needed the
practise of practical Christianity. No man could
view the morality of Sydney with calmness.. Thou-
sands of young women were DASHED to moral
destruction every year. Legislation had miserably
failed to stem the tide.
Now, about the thousands of young women
who are DASHED to destruction every year
in Sydney, according to the Rev. Yarring-
ton. A woman can only be wholly dashed
once. When she has been dashed she can’t
be dashed back again. No one can undo
moral destruction. Therefore the matter
becomfes one of figures and common-sense and
reasoning. Supposing womankind in the beau-
tiful Harbor City is dashed to utter ruin at
the average age of 19. The Rev. Yarring-
ton may take any other age he pleases as
the average one at which the dash and the
ruin are done, but 19 years is suggested as a
fairly possible age. According to the census
of 1911 there were 6824 women of that age
—not in Sydney alone, but in Sydney and all
its 40 or more suburbs. If Yarrington likes
to take 10 as the age of destruction, there
were 6229 women to choose from —or to
dash from. The Rev. Yarrington’s large
statement about thousands of young women
going to moral corruption in Sydney every
year certainly seems to imply that half, or
three-quarters, or perhaps the whole of the
flappers who, in any particular year, attain
the age at which marriage or something of
the kind is possible, become Raiiabs and
loose characters. There are quite a number
of decent citizens —including Jews, Roman
Catholics, Unitarians and Agnostics—who
would resent the implication that from one-
half of their daughters-to all their daughters
are Rahabs, but for the fact that their utter
contempt for the Yarrington kind of man
makes it hardly worth while to reply to
him. If they took that kind of preacher seri-
ously they would possibly hang him on a
lamp-post. What saves him is (1) the fact
that very few people read his fulminations,
and (2) the fact that those who do read
them pass them by with a pitying smile as
mere hysteria. The father of a family has
either to sandbag the Yarrington species of
cleric or ignore him. As a rule, he ignores
him. And in doing so he generally ignores
the church that he belongs to, and which is
sufficiently low-down to tolerate him. The
incumbent who states, or suggests, or implies
in a general sort of way, that the bulk of the
young women of a big city—and a fairly
respectable city—like Sydney are lost souls,
is a misfortune. He and his kind keep the
intelligent class—which is very often the
paying class, and the class which takes a
regular hot bath—away from the church.
Those who take sufficient interest in church
affairs to read the sayings of this variety of
parsondom are liable to get an idea that the
tabernacle is dirty and ignorant and hope-
less. They think it looks like an ash-barrel.
Those who don’t take sufficient interest in
church affairs to read the sayings of parson-
dom never go to the tabernacle in any case.
A bitter Sydney barrister once told the writer
that the" only witnesses who can never be
relied upon are clergymen and women. He
was not sober at the time, and he died soon
afterwards. Still, he was a wise old man in
his way, and he knew things.
v -♦
About Clubs.
Last week the Naval and Military Club.
Melbourne, agreed by 56 votes to 18 to expel
Major T. M. MTneu.ney because, at a Home
Rule meeting, he had said about Lord Rob-
erts things which till the present Belfast
trouble started, had been accepted generally
as platitudes. M’lnerney alleged that Rob-
erts was suffering from “senility” (“senility”
is defined by Webster as “old age,” and
Roberts is 83) ; that he had delayed the
finish of the S’African war by his hesitant
methods; and that, whereas he was “dra-
matic, old and worn-out,” Kitchener was
“vigorous and powerful.” An old-established
axiom lays it down that the rottener a club
is the touchier it is. In London, during the
Boer War, while men like Campbell-Ban-
nerman, Sir Edward Grey, Lord Morley,
Asquith, ‘General Butler, and so forth, were
denouncing the “methods of barbarism” of
their-countrymen, in and out of historic clubs
like Brooks’s and the Athenaeum, and suffer-
ing not at all therefrom in a social sense,
obscure traders were being ousted in shoals,
for a precisely similar 'offence, from pot-
houses like the Junior Constitutional. A bad
club is as embarrassing a circumstance to be
associated with as a man who is doubtful of
his position. Neither of them is able to act
naturally. They both alternate between
blatant arrogance and equally blatant servil-
ity. Also, it is not easy to know when they
are going to be arrogant and when servile.
However, a general line may be got in this
\/f 7 : Whatever political or other doctrine is
being espoused for the moment, by the people
with most money and so on, will be adopted
eagerly by both these types. The more the
newspapers from which they get their in-
spiration blither on the subject, the more ex-
cited they will become. After a certain stage
they will accept the last extremity of press
guff , as imperishable truth. They will then
be prepared to tear to pieces, as a traitor,
pro-Boer, disloyalist, Socialist, or what not,
anyone who keeps his head sufficiently to be
able to see things in the light in which they
stood before the uproar began. A majority
of the members of the Naval and Military
Club, Melbourne, is evidently at the blatant
stage at the time of writing. Such solemn
asses are capable, for the moment, of leav-
ing a smoking-room as a protest against
someone who happened to mention that Sir
Edward Carson once owned a dog that got
the mange. In six months or so the Belfast
trouble will be over. The drunk will have
passed. The Naval and Military Club will
pull itself together, and wonder what all the
fuss was about, and why it made a public
idiot of itself.
The U.S. Beef Trust, Its State Rights
Ally, and the Horrible Position of
Britain.
Dear Bulletin, —It is four years now since
the U.S. Beef Trust began sparring for an
opening in Australia. Reputable papers all
over the U. States mentioned at the time, and
have been mentioning at intervals
ever since, that the Beef Trust needed
to collar the bulk of the Australian
meat-exporting trade, if it was to
fulfil its dream of making good in the United
Kingdom. Public men of standing, both in
Britain and the U.S. said the same thing.
Incidentally The Bulletin said it. Liberal-
ism in Australia, speaking with the superb
confidence of a Party which never looks a
yard beyond its Q.wn bailiwick, said that the
whole thing was preposterous; that the Beef
Trust would never want to come to a God-
forsaken place like Australia; that if it did
happen to go mad and decide to begin opera-
tions here, our Anti-Trust laws were ade-
quate to cope with it; and that, in any case,
those laws wouldn’t be needed, since the rail-
ways were “in the hands of the States.” As
a sort of final string to its argumentative
bow, Liberalism averred that it would be
an excellent thing for everybody if the Trust
did settle down in Australia. In due course
the Trust began business in Queensland.
Liberalism continued to deny its existence, so
far as Australia was concerned—this though
Swifts had already spent some £2,000,000 in
the Northern State. Last week, however, the
Party, speaking with the mouth of Prime
Minister Cook, officially swallowed all its
denials of years past. Here is a Parlia-
mentary extract which would have been un-
thinkable as lately even as six months ago:—
Mr, Sharpe (Q.): Swift and Company had
established the largest works in the world
on the Brisbane River, works that would be
capable of dealing with 1000 head of cattle
and 5000 head of sheep daily. They had
also obtained control of works at Townsville and
Cairns, and it was rumored that 1000 square miles
of country had been acquired in Central Queensland,
together with the Lakes Creek Works, near Rock-
hampton. Armour and Company had arranged with
Swift and Co., of Brisbane, to kill cattle for them.
Mr. Cook said that this question had just been
under discussion for over three weeks on the censure
debate, yet the first proposal after this censure was
disposed of was this same matter. -
Mr. Webster (N.S.W.) : Do you object?
Mr. Cook : Yes, I do ; because it is bailing up the
business while it is giving us no new information.
The Trust has been in Australia two years.
And now the Party which has all along
denied that the Trust was in Australia, or
was capable of doing any damage if it did
come here, proposes to make a belated effort
to deal with it. That anything short of an
amendment of the Constitution, giving the
Australian Parliament full control, not only
of inter- but of intra-State commerce, must
necessarily be futile, was shown by the lyric
outburst of Q. Minister for Agriculture
White, last week. Said this large-visioned
Imperial patriot:—
Many people had the idea that because a large
company was erecting works on Brisbane River it was
the cause of the rise in the price of meat. He
hoped the price would go still higher, because every
penny would help Queensland. Queensland was
going to be the abattoirs of the world. If the big
companies dealing in meat were prepared to spend
their thousands here he would welcome them, and
be glad to see them. The more that came the bet-
ter. He was not afraid of the Labor party or what
they thought. They could do with these great syn-
dicates. It was going to be a great benefit, and all
that money would come into Queensland.
Undoubtedly the above expresses the view
of the typical State-righter. What does it
matter to White that the price of meat
should rise all over Australia, provided
Queensland becomes “the abattoirs of the
world?” What does he- care that the poor
and middle-class folks of the United King-
dom should have to pay monopolist prices
for their meat so long as great syndicates
scatter largesse in his corner of the earth?
In no way does one get a better estimate of
the,- fraudulency of the average “Imperial
spirit” than by persuading the Whites of
this continent to give their views on the Beef
Trust question. This Trust which White
welcomes is not likely to harm Australia
materially perhaps for many years. It is
going to do Queensland a lot of good. There-
fore, let it be received with cheers. Its objec-
tive, so far as profits are concerned, is, of
course, Britain. High Commissioner Reid
put this point very plainly during his recent
visit to the Commonwealth. He remarked — 1
acting, obviously, under London influences—
that the U.S. Beef Trust was rapidly gain-
ing a footing at Smithfield; that it already
controlled the whole of the British meat
supply from Argentina and the U.S.; and
that the only factor which debarred it from
declaring a Trust price for imported meat in
London, day by day, was the ever-present
possibility of the arrival of a shipment of
Australian meat. Swifts and Armours, as
Reid suggested, are not lavishing millions in
Queensland to secure the comparatively pal-
try trade of Australia. They are after the
profits that are to be wrung from the millions
of meat consumers that inhabit the United
Kingdom. The Queensland Government wel-
comes Swifts. Armour and Co. It re-
gards the Beef Trust as a blessing. It is
prepared to put its railways, or anything else,
at the Trust’s disposal in consideration of
the thousands the latter proposes to spend.
Where is the use of the Cook party blither-
ing about restrictive legislation, in the cir-
cumstances? None but the Queeensland
Parliament can hamper the Beef Trust in
the present state of the Australian Consti-
tution ; which is only another way of saying
that unless human nature changes completely,
in the next year or so, the outlook as re-
gards the already ill-nourished Britisher is
blacker than any ink. —Yours, etc., 10-2-4.
Boots and Wheat and Pimlico.
Percy Hunter, Director of the Immigra-
tion Department, who is in Britain whoop-
ing up farm inhabitants for the empty spaces
of N. S. Wales and Victoria, has written a
report to the effect that he finds recruiting
“tremendously difficult,” and things are
worse than middling. In spite of all the
efforts of the considerable organisation at
Percy’s command, only 17 families of
alleged landseekers were secured for Victoria
in the first four months of the year, in addi-
tion to a handful who described themselves
as agricultural laborers, probably on the
strength of some distant connection with a
barrow of turnips. From this it looks as
though people elsewhere are beginning to
perceive that in Australia the farmer is
being handed the dirty end of the higli-
wages stick. He certainly is getting the
dirty end whether people elsewhere perceive
it or not; and he himself has a vague and
uncomfortable feeling that it is so. Almost
the whole community is at the game' of
“passing it on.” The cost of living goes up
sixpence, whereupon the employee in the
clothes-peg factory asks and generally gets a
rise—not of sixpence, but of a shilling, to be
on the safe side. Then the man who owns
the clothes-peg factory, finding that the cost
of making the weapons has advanced 2d.,
sends up the price—not 2d., but 4d., for he
wants to be on the safe side, too. After
which, the laundry-man, finding it costs |d.
more to wash Reginald’s shirt and add to
it the discomforts demanded by civilisation,
requires Id. more of Reginald, who notes
it as one reason why he should get a rise of
ss. a week. So the whole business goes on
and on and round and round till it gets to
the farmer who is trying to grow some wheat
up beyond Rupanyup, or outside of Bogga-
bri. Every time he opens his mouth to buy
the high cost of living jumps up and hits
this cocky in the teeth. He has to pay more
than he used to for his clothes and his boots,
for his farm implements and his bags and
his twine and his tinned tucker; and when
he makes his solemn pilgrimage to town the
sixpenny meals of old are ninepence, and his
old fourpenny-tram ride in Sydney on Sun-
day has swelled up to sevenpence. He is
told that high prices are a blessing and a
sure sign of prosperity, and he would pro-
bably not argue the point if any of the prices
came his way. But when he opens his
mouth to sell, all he hears about high prices
is that the cost of living has gone up, conse-
quently freights have been advanced, and
there’s another ha’penny a bushel to pay for
commission. The price he gets, less the
advanced freight and the commission with
the extra ha’penny tied to it, is not what
Australians can afford to pay out of their
much-increased wages, but what the for-
eigner can pay out of wages which have
hardly increased at all. The butter producers
and mutton growers are better off. They get
the uttermost farthing that it is safe to
extract from Australia, and what can’t be
consumed on the premises is exported, and
sold very frequently at a price much lower
than Australia has paid. The man who re-
tails boots in George-street or Bourke-street
doesn’t care tuppence what footwear is fetch-
ing in Piccadilly or Pimlico; what has that
got to do with him, he wants to know, so
long as he has a decent Protective duty?
His concern is with the wages-levels and the
consequent price-levels of his own country.
If he is called upon to pay more for making
boots —very well; he will charge more and the
depressed state of the boot-trade in Pimlico
is nothing to him. But with the wheat-
farmer the foreign price is everything. The
Australian, having had his wages put up,
could afford to pay more for his wheat,
ground into flour; and he ought to pay more,
because it is costing more to grow. But he
doesn’t pay more. Unlike almost everything
else except a few such things as wool, copper
and tin, he pays for wheat at a price fixed
not by local but by foreign conditions, while
the farmer is paying out on everything lie
needs at prices fixed by local conditions. And
the farmer cannot go on that way indefi-
nitely. There is a breaking point somewhere,
and it will be a shockingly bad thing for this
country to reach it. Apart from the fact
that it is a most wasteful thing to leave capi-
tal idle —and the agricultural lands of Aus-
tralia represent the largest part of the coun-
try’s capital—the States have spent their
best borrowed millions on railways into agri-
cultural lands; and if those millions don’t
earn anything, there will soon be a pretty
poor look-out for the other millions. How
the difficulty is going to be got fiver this
paper doesn’t know for certain ; all it knows
for certain is that when the farmer pays
out all the time on a high-wage basis, and
collects all- the time on a low-wage basis,
farming is not going to be popular; and
yet if farming doesn’t become far more popu-
lar than it is even now, Australia is going
to have a large unearned interest bill to pay
on its public works, and there will be a
larve increase in the chances of a brown man
looking down at us from the Empty North
along the barrel of a gun.,
About Sky-Pilotage.
The Bulletin received this letter (6/5/’l4)
in respect of a controversy which is growing
somewhat wearisome:—
Dear Bulletin, —As, in spite of my contradiction
regarding your statements, founded, as you admit,
upon newspaper reports, you still continue to affirm
that the Departmental machines are dangerous, I
make a further effort to convince you of the error of
your ways. , ,
You seem to draw some consolation from the
fact that the Press reports upon which you formed
your opinion were never contradicted. Might I
ask what is the use, so far as you are concerned, of
contradicting reports when, in spite of such contra-
diction, you allow one of your correspondents in the
very next column to that in which the contradiction
appears, to re-affirm the canard as if it were a proved
and accepted fact? (See issue of 9/4/T4.)
I do not know that I can offer any better proof
that the machine, which you describe as dangerous,
as prehistoric, and as a death trap, was in my
judgment a safe and reliable one than the fact that
I, with every confidence, accompanied the depart-
mental aviator in one flight and certainly hope to
repeat the experience before long. For the rest, let
the aviators who use the machines speak for them-
selves. I enclose their report.
Regarding barrack expenditure, you say that what
you took exception to was the fact that provision
had been made on the current year’s estimates
for a continuance of these relatively unnecessary
works. These buildings had been started, as you
admit, contracts let and the work was nearing com-
pletion during the last financial year; for which I
was in no way responsible. The only amounts appear-
ing on the current year’s Estimates are those necessary
to pay the balance of the contracts then drawing
to completion. Unless provision had been made to
meet these liabilities, the Government would have
been a financial defaulter and the buildings left in-
complete. Do you seriously suggest that this alterna-
tive should have been adopted?—Yours faithfully,
E. D. Millen.
Senator Millen encloses a document headed
“Report by Departmental Aviators Lieuten-
ant Petre and Lieutenant Harrison.” It is
much too long to print in full, but the gist of
it is that the machines which The Bulletin
suggested some months ago were dangerous
are in reality perfectly safe. According to
the aviators in the employ of the Defence
Department:—
The articles in The Bulletin are founded upon
sensational accounts appearing in Melbourne papers,
written by persons without technical knowledge of
aviation.
The Melbourne representative of Sydney
Evening News interviewed Aviator Haw-
ker on the 4th inst. Hawker can hardly be
described as “a person without technical
knowledge of aviation.” According to the
News (5/5/’l4) :
Mr. Hawker had a hearty word of commendation
for the work which the Commonwealth Defence avia-
tors are now doing at Point Cook. At the end of Jan-
uary he condemned the machines then in the Defence
Department’s stores as antiquated and useless. Now,
however, he declares that, with the two new li. K.
machines Lieutenants Eric Harrison and Petre are
doing capital work.
The position, therefore, is as follows: The
aviators in the employ of the Defence De-
partment agree, for the purposes of publica-
tion, that the old machines are safe. Millen
is of the opinion, for what it is worth, that
the machines are safe. Aviator Hawker, on
the other hand, who is entirely free from
political influences, considers that the
machines in question are “antiquated and
useless.” In this matter The Bulletin is
satisfied to back the opinion of Hawker.
As regards most of the absurd barracks ex-
penditure this paper is certainly of the
opinion that it should have been cut off at
the metre at the earliest possible opportunity.
The money saved even after the contractor's
had been genefously compensated, would
have gone a long way in the direction of buy-
ing and housing and maintaining those hydro-
planes which Hawker recently asserted to
be “indispensable for Australian coastal de-
fence work.”
The eternal hold-up has been in progress
for some weeks at Cockatoo Dock, Sydney,
and the building of the warships on which
the very existence of Australia may shortly
depend has been consequently delayed. This
time it wasn’t a case of the artisan being
locked out by the private capitalist, or strik-
ing against the private capitalist, or striking
against his own Labor Government, or strik-
ing against his own Arbitration Court. It
was a case in which certain unions dis-
agreed. Now, any person has a right to
leave off work at his own expense and risk,
whenever he feels that way. But in N.S.W.
nobody seems to do anything quite at his
own expense. Under an utterly rotten
regime, the State has got to the
point of borrowing about £8,000,000 per
annum abroad, and leaving the stupendous
bill to the kid, with nothing to show for it
as yet save a great increase of taxation and
a grievously diminished net revenue from the
business undertakings of the country. The
old man’s monopolies, lockings-out and
strikes, his disputes, his loafings, his swelled
head, his motor-car, his tail-coat, his by-
drinkings, his Fatness, his Leanness, and
his failure to run his own Government
and his own policy and his own Arbitration
system on workable principles—all these, or
rather the cost of them, are left to the in-
fant. And this is done, not through incapa-
city, but simply because the loan habit has
eaten into the public conscience, and it has
become customary to take no thought for the
morrow. The', business isn’t honest, and it
isn’t manly. But the influx of borrowed
money keeps the land boom going, and the
land boom keeps the land-.iobbers and the
land-boomers going, and their advertisements
keep the Tory dailies going, so it is very
rarely that anybody tells the old man what
a careless, casual fraud he has become.
The other day the usual cat and dog couple
came into the N. S. Wales Divorce Court,
both parties being so utterly full up of one
another that they asked the Bench to lay
down a road to a separation. Justice Gor-
don, who heard the case, admitted that the
circumstances justified at least one of the
parties in getting what was sought; not-
withstanding which he proceeded to pour
out the usual well-intentioned advice to the
parties to “make it up”—for the sake of the
child. If the dog can turn cat and the two
can purr in chorus on the hearth, or if the
cat can turn dog and the two can hunt
amicably together, it is first-rate advice; but
iff they can’t—and they very rarely can—-
it is mostly doing the children a shockingly
bad turn to “patch it up” for their sake.
Latching it up for the child’s sake is mostly
patching it up for appearance’s sake: it saves
the parent’s face, but it scratches the child's.
It really wouldn’t matter a great deal how
much snapping and scratching there was out-
side so long as there was none at home; but


Osejjr Asehe was to put in some of a recent week
f'vipff “The Shrew” at Stratford-on-Avon, as part of
the Bards hirthday-eelebration, which lasts for a
long fortnight. H. B. Irving had charge of “Ham-
, ? ,. a , was to plav I a go to Tree’s Othello:
but the birthday (April 231-was given to Bourchier
and Margaret Halstan, in “Much Ado.”
THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
4
— J.'il I WZI M
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OF THE PEOPLE.
"A WHITE AUSTRALIA
... and ...
“MACKIE’S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.
A GRAND DOUBLE.
m
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
m
m
m
Swift
Company Ltd., Australasian Agents. 26/30 Clarence St.,
Sydney
Missing Friends.
JJAMPSTEAD MARSHALL, write and
give news of yourself for your Mother and
Child.
SIDNEY.
A Federal Detective Agency.
J. CANTLON
(late Victorian Detective Police) under-
takes Commercial, Confidential, Next of Kin,
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enquiries,
Searches. Surveillance.
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
QEORGE LORENZO STEET deceased—formerly of
South Melbourne, Victoria. The Widow (maiden
name Elizabeth Anderson) and children of the above-
named deceased or any persons having' knowledge of
them are kindly requested to communicate with Hed-
derwick Fookes & Alston, Solicitors, 105 William
Street. Melbourne.
De saury-joss joss, frank.
Write to Mother, she is old now. longs
to hear. Post Office, Worthing, Sussex.
A.M.K.J. all want news of you.
CiHARLES MORRISON, who left Green-
J ock about 58 years ago, and last heard of
in Sydney about 30 years since, when he was
in the hotel business, is inquired for. Any
information will be gratefully appreciated
by his sister, Mrs. Dougan, 14 Russel Street.
Rothesay, Bute, Scotland.
when things are patched up “for the child’s
sake” the snapping and scratching have all
to be reserved for the home, and the child
gets the benefit of the lot. Some day civili-
sation is going to make an earlier start at
securing domestic peace and homes where
the youngsters have a fair chance of decent
training and continuous discipline. Probably
it will put up cold chambers and require
every engaged person to sit in : one of them
for three weeks, on a low diet, and think over
matters. And before any marriage takes
place there might be a period of three days
in which either party should have the right
to let the other party know that he (or she)
had thought better of it. In fact, the idea
of fixing a day, say a month before the mar-
riage. when either party might cry off with-
out fear of any legal or other consequences
—presuming they had been living decently
—might be tried even before the cool cham-
bers are built.
“Bosun,” from the flying peak:—
•Judge Backhouse put his finger on what looks
like a weak spot in maritime matters when dealing
with a ferry-boat master before N.S.W. Marine
Court last week. The skipper was in charge of
the Kosciusko, and lie managed to strike bottom
off Middle Head, a proceeding which might easily
have resulted in a collection of damp, untidy corpses,
with barnacles in their whiskers and back hair,
Middle Head' being exposed to the ocean roll
through the Heads. The skipper confessed he didn’t
know the depth of water off Middle Head, or any
other Head in Port Jackson, as he never had seen
a chart of the harbor. The .Judge elicited the inform-
mation that the rules don’t require candidates for
masters’ harbor certificates to show any knowledge
of the depth of water in the port. While the law
deems it mandatory for a harbor-master to have a
certificate, it doesn’t bother to see that the docu-
ment has any special bearing on his work. The
rules objected to have been in force going on for
50 years, so the Judge’s protest is a bit belated.
Still, by much dispensation of Providence it arrives
ahead of the catastrophe the system is calling ten-
ders for.
The much-discussed problem as to whether
a railway passenger can reserve his seat
in a carriage by leaving a rug or an em-
balmed bulldcg thereon while he gads up and
down the platform or sprints to the
refreshment room, where there ‘ is fre-
quently little room and about the
same amount of bona-fide refreshment,
was decided in the affirmative in a Sydney
police-court on May 8. A passenger for the
Blue Mountains pegged out a corner seat in
one of the coaches, put the evening paper on
it, and sauntered up the platform. The mana-
ger of one of Sydney’s biggest eating palaces
entered the carriage, ignored the evidence of
the journal (it wasn’t much in the way of
evidence, anyhow), and jumped the claim.
On the return of the original pegger-out high
words smote the serenity of things generally.
The bun-man stuck to his corner, and the
dispossessed party sat in the middle of the
seat. Eventually a stipendiary magistrate
fined the claim-leaper £2 with £2 9s. costs.
Possibly an appeal would blow the judgment
out. If a man leaves the family diamonds
and plate on his seat it seems to suggest that
that seat is his seat. But papers and cheap
novels are always being abandoned. And if
the fact that Smith says a paper (possibly
one just abandoned by Brown) is his paper
—if that fact enables him to drive Jones out
of his newly acquired corner nook, the life of
Robinson will hardly be worth living, and he
will probably speak bitterly to Thomson on
the subject.
From “10-2-4”:
An astonishingly unfortunate host eventuated last
week, in the person of the Darling-hurst (Sydney)
gentleman who, while entertaining a few friends at a
birthday party, was visited by a herd of persons in
the conventional fancy costume of the burgling craft.
The average suburban birthday party is a modest
affair of claret-cup and such-like horrible drinks,
nlatitudinous oratory, sandwiches, genteel chat about
the menace of Labor and the imperishable charm and
virtue of Danny Levy, bridge at 3d. a hundred, and
so on. Rarely, if ever, at such entertainments does
one find anyone with hundreds of pounds in gold and
notes about him. In fact, the members of the local
Burglars’ Union agreed, some months ago, to place
all birthdav parties, for purposes of classification, on
a level with Band of Hope meetings, L.O.L. gather-
ings, and reunions of Methody clerics who had been
driven to file their schedules by reason of Aus-
tralia’s growing tendency in the direction of lax
Sabbath observance. Yet at this birthday party ready
money was as plentiful almost as it is at Tattersall's
on a settling-day. One genius managed to stuff £lOO
in notes into his mouth as the robbers entered. An-
other furtively cast a hundred or so on the floor and
stood on it. A third turned his priceless diamond
ring round, on his finger, so that he should appear
to be wearing an ornament of little worth. These
three got off lightly. The rest had a horrible time
financially speaking. No wonder the host was furi-
ous, and flatly accused the burglars of “making a"
noise and giving the house a bad name.” The one
bright jrloam in the whole lamentable business con-
sists in the fact that the host is said to have insisted
on fully compensating his friends for their losses,
inasmuch as the back gate of his domicile had been
accidentally left open, thus facilitating the entrance
of the malefactors. An unwritten law of very ancient
standing in Darlinghurst society lays it down that the
back gate (to sav nothing of the front door) shall
alwgvs be hermetically sealed when a quiet birthday
game is going on and there is more than £5OO in
the room.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
llKit Majestv's “The Forty Thieves.”
Palace “The Burglar and the Lady.”
Adelphi “The Mayor of Tokio.”
Little Theatre “Fanny’s First Play.”
Tivoli Melnro-hs Vaudeville ■>.
Nation a. Amphitheatre Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville.
Lyceum Snencer s Pictures.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures.
Imperial Salon De Luxe Dancing.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Unit Majesty’.- “Come Over Here.”
King’s “Worst Woman in London.*’
Royal “Never Say Die.”
Princess’s “The Rosary.”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Tee Skating.
Bijou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville.
♦
The dictograph, an instrument for magni-
fying sound, was shown at work on the
stage of Sydney Criterion on Saturday eveu-
ing. Unfortunately the dictograph was used
in the wrong place; it should have been
offered for the use of the audience. By means
of this sqund-magnifier the occupants of the
back and' top seats might have been able to
understand why and how the late Mr. Argyh;
was murdered, what William Ilarrigan said,
what took place in the attic where the dicto-
graph brigade was in action, and much else
that escaped their hearing. “The Argyle Case”
is an interesting drama. Technically it
violates the first rule: “Never keep a secret
from the audience.” But dramatic rules,
like rules of morality, are made to be broken,
provided they can be broken successfully.
The interest of the public consists in its
efforts to discover who killed Mr. Argyle.
People look at the case not through their
own eyes; but through the eyes of Asche
Kayton. the ’tec. Every member of the stage
company is in turn suspected. The dialogue
is cleverly worded so as to keep Asche Ivay-
ton and his hearers guessing. Kayton is no
Sherlock Holmes. He proceeds by a method-
ical examination of the facts of the case,
and by a process of elimination arrives at
the criminal. Much is made of technical
devices for the discovery of crime; but the
arrangements necessary for the installation
and use of the dictograph are so elaborate,
so liable to discovery,, and require so many
manipulators that the dramatic probabilities
are inordinately stretched. And the dicto-
graph only discovers the presence of a cer-
tain man in the counterfeiter’s den—which
could much more easily be discovered by the
battalion of detectives that Kayton employs
to watch the house. Kayton solves the mys-
tery by the old trick of getting two suspects
to accuse each other.
* * * *
Chas. A. Millward, as the detective,
smokes 18 cigars, and makes of the
character a real personality. His work
is finished, liis appearance and manner
effective. William Harrigan, as his
youthful assistant, is pleasant but inaudible,
and, at least in this inconspicuous part,
affords no real evidence why he should be
“presented ” to Australia by the Firm. Ger-
trude Boswell, as the wife of a counterfeiter,
“THE MAYOR OF TONI Of’ AT
SYDNEY ADELPHI.
Bobby H'oolsey helps to fire the bomb.
shows beneath her necessary restraint a
subtle sense of dramatic values. Sylvia
Bremer plays the part of Mr. Argyle’s
adopted daughter on Murielstarry lines, but
with the right degree of dramatic tense-
ness. Her work is highly promising, but
she should exploit her own individuality.
Enid Bennett is infantilely pleasing in an
ingenue part. E. W. Morrison, the pro-
ducer, has a part that, in theatrical jargon,
plays, itself, but he seizes every opportunity
to build up a thoroughly satisfactory charac-
terisation. Arthur Styan, as a voluble
lawyer, shares with Gertrude Boswell the two
most difficult parts in the melodrama, lie
makes of his character a success that almost
overshadows that of the detective. During
the first act on the first night the gallery
stood on its head, or something, when Maggie
Moore entered as a colored cook.
Shaw’s scintillating comedy, “Fanny's
First Play,” was successfully revived at Syd-
ney Little Theatre last Monday evening. This
satire on middle-age sentimentalism, in which
farce mixes with tragedy, can stand revival,
In the part of Juggins, the ducal valet, and
that of the girl who has done time for assault-
ing the police, Hugh Buckler and Violet
Paget revel in characterisations that show
their capacities at their best. The cast is
practically the same as in the first produc-
tion, with the exception of Eileen Robinson,
whose Dora Delaney is an exceedingly pro-
mising first attempt. Reynolds Denniston
is another exception. He has deserted Fanny
and is Under Sealed Order? for J.C.W.
Eileen Robinson needs to weld her con-
ception of the part more firmly together,
On Monday night she was Darling Dora
only in patches, but the patches were admir-
able. The ran is to be a brief one.
“THE ARGYLE CASE ,” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
The 'tec discovers the forger demonstrating
how to make money.
Sydney Tivoli still finds time when it
isn’t boosting Ada Reeve to attend to its pro-
gramme of humbler lights. Vera Rochdale,
“France’s petite soubrette,” who sings Irish
and ragtimeßussell Carr, a ventriloquist
who makes remarks so that he can crack
jokes thereon ; and Achilles and Area, equili-
brists, are the new names on the list. But
they all fade away into oblivion at the mere
thought of Ada Reeve, due May 18.
After artistically holding the fort for a
week as Myles-na-Coppaleen, in “The Colleen
Bawn,” for Allen Doone, at the Palace (Syd-
ney), Harry Roberts handed over the com-
mission untarnished to Doone on Saturday
night. The latter will hold it down until
Friday when the Colleen will be forsaken.
The following night the first performance
in Australia of “The Burglar and the Lady,”
a comedy-drama by Langton McCormick,
will be given.
*** * f
Another interesting dog turn is on the
National Amphitheatre (Sydney) pro-
gramme this week. It heads the bill,
and The Bulletin upholds the judg-
ment, with costs on the usual scale.
The Jap athletes; the showy Americans,
Lyons and Callum; and the musical Austra-
lian girls, Muriel Andrews and Ruby Dent,
help to drive away, for the time being,
gloomy forebodings concerning the N.S.W.
alleged Labor Party’s direful finance.
** * *
The management of the Imperial Dancing
Salon. (Sydney) is making elaborate pre-
parations for a carnival on June 2, to be
known as “A Night in Japan.” This early
announcement is made for the ' benefit - of
dilatory citizens of the tango variety, who
have a habit of leaving their box plan ar-
rangements balancing on the verge of dis-
appointment. The dilatory classes have to
get a, rattle on these days at the Imperial.
V V $
Despite the trouble in Ulster, the ap-
proach of winter, the remarks of Rev.
Yarrington and other shepherds on the
immodesty and immorality of Australian
girls, the aeroplane flights of M. Guillaux,
of France, the tightness of monev and the
prevalence of drink, the Pantomime at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, continues. This show
has now run for over 7000 miles, and if the
nightly enthusiasm generated by it could but
be translated into terms of horse-power, the
product would suffice to drive a Manly
steamboat for a fortnight.
“Sealed Orders” is now roaring at Sydney
Royal, under sentence of death. Accord-
ing to the managerial advt., which, like the
Pope, is infallible, the long yell has about
10 nights of existence left to it. - Harry
Lauder takes possession on Wednesday
(27th).
llie Mayor of lokio ’ shows no signs of
shifting fi_i Sidney Adelphi; and there is
no reason why he should. liis Washup
has more excuses for staying in town than
most musical shows and a whole lot of
J’s.P.
The opera season at Adelaide Royal ended
its joyous course with “Dorothy,*’ well staeed
and sung. Florence Young and Celia
Ghilom were the somewhat mature pair of
heroines. The latter is specially useful in
a co., because she now takes, "with great
skill, the comic lady character, if wanted
Edward Wynne and Shortland got some de-
served promotion during the season, Charles
Albert and Miss Novotna danced marvel-
iousiy, and Frank Greene established him-
'oGii nimly as (among other things) a mati-
nee idol. Julius Knight has now come in
for Cup week, Richard Stewart staying on
indefinitely as manager. The Tivoli is going
strong with the Gilt Athlones, the acro-
batic Creos, the Vallecita leopards, and the
Vivanti pair; also some reputedly brilliant
new people are on the doorstep. At the
King’s, Valentine and Bell show that there
is still something fresh to he got out of
bicycle tricks. The lady is remarkably like
one of the Jackson family, of happy memory.
Also, the Russian Jackoleffs and Leslie and
Sol Bern (very funny). The Butterflies
are established in the Town Hall, and Den-
nett’s brilliant work at the piano is an un-
usual feature for such a team. Pictures—
West’s, Wondergraph, Pav., and the rest—
make a strong point of the Grand National
(Liverpool). West’s star, Zola’s gloomily-
impressive “Germinal,” and Wondergraph’ l
“Raging Beasts,” prove once more that ani-
mals are the best of all actors for the film.
From an Adelaide critic: —
The Society of Arts show in Adelaide this year i-
to put it frankly, the weakest for years. Lever aril
Power in England, Hevsen too busy with eomnii-
sions ; even Barnes, Collins and the ilambidge sister
all absent from various causes. And James Ashton v
numerous seashore pieces are not up to his standard.
His son Will, away exhibiting successfully in Mel
bourne, has left a few of his characteristic citv itn
pressions, London or Paris ; and, obviously under his
influence is Giles, with a bold Port Adelaide scene
Mrs. Gwen Barringer shows a lot of hollyhocks and
Heysen-inspired gum-trees from her recent pFckv
(and well-selling) one-woman exhibition, and Rose
Lowcay has some clever English bits. Edward I'avie-
is increasingly good in Kangaroo Island scenes, and
John White sound in some work done while on a
visit to Victoria. Also, the owner has lent two
landscapes, made in France by Margaret MacPherso".
She seems to have come under the spell of the Futur-
ists, and to the unaccustomed eye the first effect is
simply unpleasant. Meanwhile, the Art Gallerv
(near by the other show) has decided to open at
night. The experiment was not considered successful
when tried in Melbourne, but Adelaide fancies that -it
can show better results. The opening night was made
a formal affair, with speeches bv President Sowden,
Premier Peake and Governor Galway, also an address
on symbolism by Edward Davies, architect and
painter. Dr. Bevan and others are to follow with
addresses on the Wednesday evenings, to which, for
the present, the experiment is to be confined.
Ellen Terry, of whose personal charm and
superior talent as an actress, in the very
long ago and not so very long ago, many
writers have said the sweetest things, made
three appearances at Melbourne Town Hall
last week. Pictorially the old artist is all
that was expected of her. Her entrance
upon the platform is a success. Face,
figure and bearing are strikingly suggestive
ot the woman she used to be, and nobody
gazing for the first time upon the ruins of
Ellen Terry will doubt that her reputation
was well deserved. As for the entertain-
ment she has to offer, The Bulletin can
only call it an imposition upon the public.
She does not deliver “a discourse on Shak-
speare’s heroines, with illustrative acting.”
Seated at a ridiculous little table, or stand-
ing beside it, she reads lecturettes from a
huge note-book, the words being printed in
type an inch long. On the Thursday night
last week the poor, lady got away
from the book once or :e and recited a
line or two, but on Sa„uiday she stayed
there all the time. Ilaidly a vestige of
memory remains to her. The matter of her
lecturette is stodgy; her manner of speak-
mg it is as cramped as that of a parson
dealing with an unfamiliar sermon. She
needs to be always sucking a tabloid or
sipping a drink to keep her up to her pain-
tul task. Ellen Terry’s task is so severe
a strain upon her, so painful to the more
sympathetic of her auditors, and so exceed-
ingly unlikely to bring profit to the manage-
ment that the present writer would be glad
to hear she had abandoned all idea of tour-
ing Australasia.
None of the buttered-crumpet-like melo-
dramas that Allen Doone introduced to Mel-
bourne were flabbier in composition, or more
artlessly sectarian in their appeal than “The
Rosary,” which moral lesson from Ameriea
was staged at the Princess’s for the first
time last Saturday. This simple tale of
how a blown-out Noo Yark stockbroker was
brought .to a knowledge of the comforts of
religion is practically a Dooneydrama, with
Doone’s character of the old praste imperson-
ated by. a stout brother-in-art. The stock-
bearer, in his palmy days, put up the “stuff"


THe World’s Best.
DAIMLER
Motor Lorry.
■Silent Knight Engine.
Shaft Drive No Chains.
jg g§|
:
3*
m
SUNSHINE
Motor Cars P*t*y
Melbourne.
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney &. Adelaide,
Sole
Agents,
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Pitt & King Streets, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch : 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. s . J. fowler, Manager.
Queensland Branch : 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane, j. A . watson, Manager.
FIRE, ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, etc.
Lowest Rates Charged, Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
’Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
for erecting a Chapel of the Rosary for the
benefit of his dear old tutor, Father Kelly,
and the reverend gent, came to live with
his benefactor until the building was com-
pleted. Incidentally, the Wall-street young
man boasted that he took no stock in reli-
gion. and never went to church, whereas his
wife was a true believer (despite her yellow
hair and worldly style), with a weakness for
singing “The Rosary” ballad off stage. Ow-
ing to the lady getting her identity mixed
with that of her twin sister, the tame villain
of the piece is mistaken for her lover,
although he is really the betrayer of the im-
proper twin. She feeds him with informa-
tion re the intended speculations of her
brother-in-law, and thus enables him to ruin
his hated rival on ’Change. In conformity
with the immutable law of melodrama, the
tame villain hated the benevolent stock-
broker for having married the other twin.
He coveted both twins at once, seemingly.
Being ruined, the husband degenerates into
a drunken waster off stage, whilst the inno-
cent wife goes away and returns in misery
ALEXANDES WATSON (MELBOURNE
ATHENAEUM).
Recites a stirring
“ pome."
Some remarks to the
audience.
and deep mourning (for her deceased sister),
to witness the inaugural service at the blessed
Chapel of the Rosary. All the characters,
save the dead twin, come along, in single
file, and are surprised to meet one an-
other. Finally, Father Kelly brings the
dead-beat husband and the mild villain to
their knees, and the innocence of the matron
in black is proved up to the hilt, and Re-
pentance triumphs all along the line.
There are only eight characters —four are
comic reliefs to the trouble of the other
quartette—and the importation of the entire
co. was as uncalled-for as the carrying of
coke to Newcastle. Harrington Reynolds,
as Father Kelly, is needed mainly to babble
platitudes and wear a canonical air of pre-
ternatural wisdom. When he thunders
“Kneel!” to a wavering impenitent, he might
just as well be a local resident hactor strik-
ing the same attitude. Miss Jessie Arnold,
who plays the dual role of the twins, is satis-
factory only in the stereotyped hysteria of
the twin who was betrayed. As the stock-
dealer’s wife she suggests an ordinary
actress playing at being good. Walter Fen-
ner fills the feeble part of the villain with
discretion rather than distinction, and Paul
Byron and Miss Reading are more accept-
able comic-relief parties than Miss Elder and
George George. For the two last-named it
may be said that they get the very worst of
the dialogue, which is poor throughout. And
it may be added that Albert McGovern
makes a good attempt to dissruise the stupidity
of the husband character in the first three
acts. “The Rosary” is brightly staged.
The landscape in the opening scene is a feast
of rainbow hues.
* sk sk *
This week’s revival of “Dorothy” at Mel-
bourne Royal supplies the want of those per-
sons, mostly very young in the sin of
theatre-going, who have not previously
heard Cellier’s old original opera, or have
not heard it much. But to them who know it
well, and retain general recollections of
brighter performances than this, the present
revival seems a rough makeshift entertain-
ment for six nights only. Except that
Dorothy Brunton is a suitable figure for the
part of the artless rustic bride who looks
forward to an everlasting honeymoon of
matrimony, the principals don’t realise their
characters. The thin libretto, so thin that
the finger of scorn pokes a hole into the tail
end of the second act, gets no color of ISth
century probability from the leading quart-
ette —Florence Yjung, Olive Godwin, Frank
Greene and Roberts. Even if they carried
conviction with their simple love-making
complications, the awful failure of Victor
Prince as Squire Bantam, the physical un-
fitness of Celia Ghiloni for an impersona-
tion' of the Squire’s housekeeper, and the
laborious absurdity of Phil Smith’s Lurcher
would spoil the picture. In two words the
latest “Dorothy” is a wholly inartistic pro-
duction. Chorus, orchestra and dressing
are on a par with the average achievement
of the principals.
Niblb and Josephine Cohan, together with
other members of the well-remembered
“Wallingford” Co., are returning to the
Royal on Saturday for a farewell season.
They open the valedictory proceedings in
“Never Say Die,” which farcical comedy is
so frankly dependent on the humors of the
performance that the outline of the plot is
published in the advt. Also, the briskness
and unsuperfluity of “Never Say Die” is sug-
gested to Melbourne in the announcement
that the joke doesn’t start before S.lO p.m.
At Melbourne Tivoli the star of Ada
Reeve will beam serenely until Saturday,
whei) that dainty and well equipped comedi-
enne' will close her five-weeks’ innings and
her “specially selected” section of the co.
(whose selectness is not conspicuously
special) will presumably retire with her.
The co. has been strengthened considerably
of late. 'The Two Bobs and Addie Leigh
dropped into the bill last week. On Monday
the new arrivals were Farr and Farland,
also W. C. Fields, who does all things silently
whilst looking to the audience to supply the
necessary noise.
s[s * sk
“Come Over Here” has not yet outlived
its profitableness at Her Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne, nor, for that matter, has Tango Tea
exhausted the passing craze at the Tivoli.
Some week soon the Revue will have to make
way for Julius Knight and co., and “A Royal
Divorce,” it is said, will once again flourish
false happenings in the face of historic
truth.
5k 5k sfc sk
At Melbourne Town Hall this week
Leonard Borwick is giving two or three
piano recitals on reasonable terms, and at:
the Auditorium next Monday the plump and
positive Miss Adela Pankhurst will give
another Suffragette recital, in terms reason-
able and otherwise. Also, Tiie Bulletin
is desired to mention that Ice Skating will
recommence at the Glaciarium on the Thurs-
dav when this issue appears.
At West’s Palace, Melbourne, the obvious
moral of “The Miracle” is still being
preached with a full accompaniment of
Humperdinckian music and choral singing.
The story of Megildis, whose vagaries upset
a religious congregation and caused various
marvels to come to pass, is only related in
the second half of the programme, however.
In the first half there are the usual topical,
comic and bellowdramatic items which fur-
nish a comparatively profane overture to the
pious instruction to follow.
ALEXANDER
WATSON.
“ Oh , oonts .”
A little' bit of
Kipling.
The vaudeville on tap at Melbourne Bijou
on Saturday was as cheerful and enlight-
ened as other entertainments of the class.
Mantell’s Marionettes provided a neat tra-
vesty of a music-hall show, with stage
artists, orchestra and audience all acting
quaintly at the bidding of numerous strings.
The Four Lamys show that they have had
a sound education in aerial gymnastics ; and
Winifred Stewart warbles songs in a mas-
culine voice of unblemished timbre. Also
this paper can see nothing in the songan-
dance turn of Laragy and Snee to blame
them for, while the Three Vardells, the sil-
ver-ring experts, are similarly undeserving
of bricks or bad language.
* * * *
“The Worst Woman in London” is again
pursuing crime with a head on it at Mel-
bourne King’s. This time Miss Olive
Wilton plays the Baddest Female, and with
the help of red hair and a bale of dress
goods, succeeds in winning the hand of banker
Milford and dwelling temporarily in the
neighborhood of his bags of gold. Also, she
manages to be highly unpleasant to the hero
and his tart, but her schemes for aggrand-
isement come to naught, and she finally suf-
fers the painful consequences of incompetent
villainy. The course of true wickedness
finishes no more smoothly for her artful
accomplice (J. L. Lawrence), who does her
dirty work in a stiff, shopwalker manner
and a persistent belltopper. George Dawe,
as the hero, bears a load of false accusation
without disturbing a crease in his well-cut
clothes; while Tom Cannam is a blithered
wreck reduced to rags and park-dossing
through the raw beer of Old Hingland.
Edward Batteral is a whitewashed ap-
parition from the past, who nearly
brings the Dreadfullest Lady to an
anguished conclusion; and there are
others. None of the others are particu-
larly memorable, bar Miss Chetwynd and
Temple Harrison, tvho merely shout for a
hearing. . A vaudeville party that strays into
the second act is accepted as an irrelevant
interruption to the bloodstained career of
the She Limit. George Whitehead is the
best of the vaudeville team, though he
warbles “On the Road to Mandalay” with
more heroics than the subject warrants. It
is a bad road, and Mandalay isn’t worth
much when the traveller gets there.
Bv “Jean Sibi” :
W. B. Mclnnes, who supplies a portrait and some
views of Morocco, is the most interesting performer
in the present inglorious Vic. Artists’ show at Eastern
Hill, Melbourne. In “The Color Medley” Bernard
Hall has something to say about a lady without any
visible raiment; and he says it with all the rich
emphasis of his color-box. Montague Marks’s bit of
Thames scenery flaunts a red sail in a faint blue
world, while Miss Teague gives a three-quarter view
of Professor Laurie, which seems ample considering
the lady’s conventional treatment of the subject.
Leslie Wilkie shows the front elevation of a flapper.
The likeness of the boots is admirable. Miss Qumbrae
Stewart’s most ambitious effort, “Life and Roses,”
is faithfully painted, though in the face the artist
has probabiy not realised the wßble of her intention.
E. J. Shearsby’s “Impression of Colliris-street”
strikes one as a wilful and unprovoked plagiarism
of a French masterpiece in the Melbourne National
Gallery; and Miss. Yardell’s “Veil Asunder,” with
its lurid lady in ;a green head-dress, leaves little
melodrama to be desired. Alf Fischer scores with
his sun and shadow “Landscape” (No. 13) ; Crozier’s
contributions demonstrate patient endeavor; and
Percy Leason’s are well drawn and numerous.
A. E. Newbury’s portrait of an old lady is appar-
ently student’s work; G. Dunstan’s “Spanish Lady”
is poor but respectable in treatment; and Swinton
Disston’s idea of Ivan Rosenblum might have been
just as effectively rendered by machinery. Like
Bernard Hall, Archibald Collins, of South Aus.,
suspends a damsel with an impaired wardrobe,
while he strays into sentiment in the gentle study
entitled “Memories.’ Among the others the canvases
of Miss Sutherland, Miss Sweatman and Miss Traill
are especially noticeable, and the etchings of Victor
Cobb stand out prominently in the central gallery.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Harrison O.” : Actor Walter Dalgleish, who had a
fatal seizure, at Fremantle, when about to propose to the
heroine in “The Soldier’s Wedding-,” died as he would
probably have wished to —in the limelight. He was
originally dresser to Johnny Sheridan. He had an
absolute genius for incurring stage mishaps. While
trying, on behalf of a nervous mummeress, the wire
by means of which the heroine of “The Worst Female
in the Fog” escapes from a burning building, he
had a nasty fall, which put him out of action for a
time. When Ada Lawrence rode her horse into the
orchestra, when playing in “The Squatter’s Daugh-
ter,” at Hobart, it was Walter who leaped after her
and tore out the raging beast. He was a skilled horse-
man, and delighted in bringing any nag he was
associated with on the stage aj near to the foot-
lights as possible. Again, when “The Favorite” was
being played at Perth, some years back, part of the
stage collapsed during the big;' race scene. Four
animals disappeared from view, but Dalgleish, on
the favorite, got over the gap in fine style. Two of
the nags were killed and their riders were badly
hurt. Walter last came under public notice a
year or two back while playing the vampire noble-
man in “The Power of the Cross,” at Melb. ’lppo,
when he succeeded in getting himself stabbed in the
face by Ada Guildford, who was the customary armed
adventuress.
“0.K.”: Somebody wrote to a Melbourne paper
the other day, asking: “How long are the Australian
public going to be gulled”—by managerial advts. re
“early doors” and “late doors” ? Also, the indignant
individual wished to know whether a certain theatrical
management is prepared to “sacrifice its dignity to grab
the last penny it can get”? The J. and N. Tait
management happened to be the one which the in-
dignant person was pointedly Referring to, and it
is certain that the Taits have a somewhat exagger-
ated reputation for grabbing at' the last penny, be-
cause there is no disguise of their intentions. But
all managements go for the last penny in one way
or other, and none of them hks much dignity to
sacrifice these times. “Unreserved” stalls are
quoted in the advt. at a lower price than reserved
ditto, yet, if the demand for stalls is sufficiently
urgent on a Saturday night the whole of the
ground floor seating accommodation is sold at
the higher price, and people pay just as
much as the management can get for stand-
ing room only. Dress-circle and family-circle are
interchangeable terms at Her Majesty’s, Melbourne.
A person may pay 6s. one night for a seat which
is available for 3s. on another night of the same
show. And this without there being any application
of the “early door” dodge. The “early door” is
particularly a means of getting the last possible
penny into the amphitheatre. Or perhaps it were
more correct to say that the “late door” is the
means whereby the management achieves its end.
In the case of the indignant citizen aforesaid, who
hoped to hear Harry Lauder for 2s. on a Saturday
because the advt. promised a two-bob minimum after
7.45 p.m., the “late” door never eventuated. Why?
Because, at 7.45, there was still a stream of people
prepared to pay 3s. for “early” door. Granting
that the late-door seekers were lured to the theatre
under false pretences, the Taits may fairly plead
that all showmen do it. The early door is the
apple and the late door is the core, and the mana-
gers, without exception, are the greedy boy who
says, “there ain’t goin’ to be no core this time.”
The simile is false but the effect is truthful. In
times of rush theatrical management in , front of
the house is mainly a matter of “working” many
people to pay more money than they meant to
cash up at the pay-boxes, even as management of the
box plan for reserved seats is oftentimes a matter
of “bluffing” applicants into booking bad or indiffer-
ent seats where they had intended to book good
seats only.
Oscar Asche has experienced Ijis first set-back in
the course of his strenuous managerial career. His
fine robustiousness has touched: the limit. For
some nights lately he was out of the “Kismet”
bill in London, suffering from neuritis.
Lillian Nordica, the operatic soprano who toured
Australia recently under the management of Freddie
Shipman, died on Monday at Batavia. She studied
in Milan, under Sangiovanni, and made her European
cffibut as Violetta, at Brescia. This was close on 40
years ago and she has been more or less famous ever
since. She was a warm upholder of the sacrament
of marriage, and demonstrated it by facing the
matrimonial music on four several occasions —in the
first place with a young man who presently fell out
of a .balloon and was killed ; secondly with one,
Doelime, a singer, whom she divorced ; thirdly, with
a French soldier named de la Mar ; and fourthly, with
a New Yorker by name Young. She was engaged in
a law suit with her former manager Shipman at the
time of her death —or.e of those long, dreary, mys-
terious actions which only the lawyers pretend to.
understand, and to avoid which most folks would
gladly cross the Styx.
“Boh”: Just before the curtain went up for
Alfred Buchanan’s “The Image Breaker,” at the
Repertory show, the other night, in St. Peter’s Hall,
a wild-eyed man, coal-begrimed and ragged, lurched
past the protesting doorkeeper. With a tattered
hymn-book in one shaking hand, and the remains of
a' hat that had never been much of a hat in the
other, he made his way to a seat and, bending for-
ward, appeared to engage in prayer. Presently the
right sort of stout lady in trailing velvet arrived
and, through the polite usher, demanded her seat.
The wild-eyed, prayerful intruder sat tight and mum-
bled things at the usher. At last, finding that
the new verger wouldn’t let him be, he lifted his eyes
and discovered the stout lady. He fixed his eyes
on the expanse of powdered chest which she in her
vanity was pleased to consider full costume, and
breathed hard. Then he pointed the Finger of
Scorn at the revealed flesh and, uttering the loiM,
unmirthful bray of the early (and dirty) Christian,
.dashed down the aisle, only pausing at the door to
.shout some remark about “shameless females.”
before he' could turn, he was seized by the attend-
ants atid shoved from the scandalised premises.
After which a heavy-weight patron of the Australian
drama subsided like a wave into her rightful chair
and rapidly fanned her heaving circumstance.
• “0.K.”: All the time that Lauder was drawing
crowded houses at Melbourne Princess’s (and draw-
ing more than £IOOO a week for his share of the
“houses”), the word went round the city that he
was a frost and the management was losing money.
Rumor belittled the Lauder business from the stiyt
and stuck to its misrepresentation of the case, hence
the suggestion and insinuation that rival manage-
ments were at the back of Rumor. But the man-
in-the-street who talked about “empty seats” at the
Princess’s invariably closed his statement with the
remark that he hadn’t been to hear Lauder and
didn’t mean to go. In fact, quite a lot of people
were “up against” the rugged little comedian be-
cause the Taits had fixed the price for reserved seats
at 10s. 6d. They objected to paying a fancy price
for a “music-hall show.” Similar feeling was
shown the first time Melba returned from Europe.
The people who wouldn’t pay a guinea for one of
her concerts declared that she was a general disap-
pointment. They didn’t want to hear her. They
would sooner hear Dolores. Melba went away and
returned again and again, always with the same
old guinea stamp upon her, and the bitter cry of
disparagement faded away into silence.
Harry Lauder’s talent for advertising himself shone
forth from the brief newspaper mention of his hav,-
ing, whilst in Melbourne, paid a visit to old E. W.
Cole, the Book Arcade man, at his private residence.
Whether Cole invited Lauder, or the visit waSi
arranged by the visitor, the moral is the same.
Cole is undoubtedly the best self-advertised identity-
in Australia. He recognised a worthy brother-
artist in Lauder, or the famous showman spotted a,
great kindred spirit in him. And so they met, andi
got a mutual free advt. from the press.
The billiards season started in Melbourne this week:
with an exhibition match between Fred Lindrum, the-
Australian champion, and his young brother Walter..
The two brothers, who are as alike as the proverbial]
two peas in a pod, will make the balls talk for a*
fortnight at Alcock’s room.
“B. J.”: A truly remarkable effort was an inter-
view with Ellen Terry published in Melbourne Age
(4/5/’l4). The lady was referred to four times as
“Miss Perry” ; “L’Aiglon” was given as “Laiglon,”
as who should say “Theeaglet” ; Hermione was lab-
elled “Hermoine,” and Ellen was alleged to have
praised Irene “Vanburgh,” the cognomen being also
presented to Irene Vanbrugh’s sister Violet.
Maud Allan is one of the few stage, or other,
women that publicly own up to 40, or over. She
told an M.L. paper, the other day, that she had
received her first artistic inspiration as a schoolgirl
when Bernhardt visited San Francisco in 1881.
“Y.Z.”: Consideration of the recent Melbourne
Eight Hours’ proeesh inspires me with nothing but
contempt for the producers of the show. Away
with the garish and futile banners as a start.
Pretty pictures of impossible grafters and simpering
allegories are also out of the ideal picture. How-
much better to present picked workmen hitting it
up at their own games! Also, there should be
representative sports at the workers’ carnival. I
wouldn’t cross a road to see the ordinary, weari-
some sports programme, but I would hoof it for-
miles to witness a competition of carpenters, black-,
smiths, tinkers, bootmakers, etc., with the most,
skilled workmen hustling all they know. Wood-
cutting has provided a popular sample of athletics.
Why not stonecutting or bricklaying? Asa finali
objection, the Eight Hours’ procession runs to in-
ordinate length. The one effort at its improvement;
appears to be to stretch it. This latest march past;
was on a gusty, north-wind day, and the bearing
of banners was a protracted struggle. Ask me to,
state the show in brief, and I reply: “Linked sweati-
ness long drawn out.”
(Continued on page 36.)
At the Sydney Mayor’s lunch to Sir Hart-
mann Just, N.S.W. Gov.. Strickland said
they had taken the Colonial Office potentate
“to see the real N. S. Wales, 120 miles from
the railway.” This cheap idea wants throw-
ing out —this idea that “the real N. S.
Wales” is always farther out, and that the
people must borrow another 10 millions and
build another 100 miles of railway to reach
it. The country that stretches along the
railway lines already built is just as much
“real N. S. Wales” as any that could be
found by going out 120 miles farther; and
there is plenty more “real N. S. Wales” that
could be served without going to the sunset
to find it. More than one Government has
listened to this Micawberish yarn about “the
real N. S. Wales” and has extended rail-
ways out in the dry regions where stuff has
to be carted 400 miles to market, when the
same money spent on lines near the coast
would have opened just as much “real N. S.
Wales” and its produce wouldn’t have to be
carried half the distance.


t A
mm
it
Dwid liP
BJory: TtilU
A n Invitation t o
Inspect tHe Largest
and Most Ideal
Fadory in Australia.
The Directors of David Jones, Ltd., will be
pleased if the reader will pay a visit of in-
spection to their .new Factory, situated at
corner of Marlborough and Goodlet Streets,
Surry -Hills. '
This Factory is the largest of its kind in
Australia, and will be .open for inspection
from 12th May to 16th May. ,
DAVID JONES LTD.
» Si
4 S
m
Kug'elmann’s
Pure Herbal
SKin Soap.-
“Beauty's Aid."
Free Sample sent on Receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
Ivugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap may be. ob-
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box of three larg
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send Postal Note
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- (induct-
ing postage), when box will be posted per retur
mail. j - -
Sole Proprietors:
Hi lE. KUGELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-M Qiieen Street, MELBOURNE; Pitt Street,
SYDNEY; arfd at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Society
PENFOLDS
WINES
Sydney discovered last week in the person
of dentist Stephens a most astounded
divorce petitioner. Some time ago, with
all the blithe self-confidence of a hom-
ing bird, he fired in on his wife
an order for restitution of conjugal rights.
Had the wife played the game according to
the customary rules, she would have : disre-
garded the order and been respectably divor-
ced without worry, scandal or excessive ex-
pense, within six months or so. However,
she wasn’t that sort of wife. She waited
till the last possible moment for putting in
a legal appearance had arrived, and then
brought counter-charges of cruelty and mis-
conduct. That she was not conversing
through her hat the doomed husband and
his legal advisers appear to have gathered
the moment her official reply came to hand.
As a species of forlorn hope it was decided
to admit that he had gone to Queensland
with the co-re., stayed the night at her
house, and so on; but to, at the same time,
deny that there had been frivolity. This,
doubtless, on the principle that it is futile to
contest what the other side knows and is
evidently prepared to prove. It transpired
presently, however, that the miserably few
details which the opposition had omitted to
ferret out were hardly worth discussing.
The wife’s solicitors and their detectives had
put up an absolute tour de force of investi-
gation. Uanic became plainly observable in
the petitioner’s camp. His corner took on
a worried look. At the very moment when,
under happier auspices, he might fairly have
expected to be drinking with his backers in
the pub across the road, to the health of the
newly-acquired decree nisi —at this precise
instant his alley was flung in. His chief
bottleholder skied the towel. He was urged
to give over and get out of the ring. Un-
willingly, the game fellow obeyed the order
of his advisers, pausing only as he clam-
bered through the ropes, to address these
words to the referee: —
We are innocent, your Honor, but the evidence
looks so black that I’ve decided not to go on with it.
No more astonishing reversal of form has
been seen since that undoubted champion,
Likker, the son of Old Gin, went out at 100
to one on to win the Booligal Cup (carry-
ing 7st; Gib., less apprentice’s allowance)
and was beaten, in hollow fashion, by Wind
Galls, a spavined roarer, aged 17 years, that
had, up to and including the previous Satur-
day, been engaged drawing a local cab.
* * * *
The fourth anniversary of “Mother’s Day”
happened last Sunday. It is a Yankee craze
invented by Miss Anna M. Jervis, or Miss
Priscilla Aurelia Margaret Blinn-Tucker, or
some such person. The idea has caught on
in moderation, and it is proposed to invite
America’s noblest daughter, Miss Martha
Virginia Briggs Hominy, to visit Australia
and lecture on the subject. On Mother’s
Day everybody is expected to wear a white
flower, to do all possible honor to his feminine
parent, and to live as ma would have liked
him to live. The idea has much to recom-
mend it. Nine-tenths of the population can
remember mother as hardworking, unselfish
and long-suffering. She had no regular hours
—in fact, all hours were her hours. Out of
her scanty housekeeping allowance she gener-
ally had a few pounds saved for a day of
trouble. And, above all things, she had a
horror of debt. Mother’s Day ought to be
celebrated by the simple process of swearing
off loans and starting a sinking fund.
* * * *
Last Sunday was “Mother’s Day,” and in
Sydney the occasion gathered in one victim.
A young man in poor health went out and
suicided on his mother’s grave. Possibly in
his weak state the maudlin influences of the
date helped to get him down. There are
people who, if they are talked to at twi-
light in soft, low accents about the old
family cat will burst into tears and shoot
themselves with the furniture there and
then.
AN EXPENSIVE LUXURY.
MRS. POTTS. : “Does your husband consider
you are responsible for his business suc-
cess?”
MRS. POINT: “ Well , he said I certainly made
it necessary for him to get more money."
NO TRACKS LEFT.
BLACKFELLOW (who has just returned after a few days' absence): “Who peen here?"
GIN: “ No one."
BLACKFELLOW : “Go on; who peen here? I see track longer ground.”
GIN : “You plurry liar, I peen sweep lent all up."
The Master Hairdressers’ Association in
Adelaide has been sitting on the Reported
case of a youth who, getting his hair cut at
a city shop, was induced to have a “face
massage,’’ and was charged 15s. for half an
houfs’ work. As it happened, the artist was
not an Association member, so the Ass. just
called it a Deplorable Imposition, and re-
gretted its inability to do anything.
A lawyer writes: The
inordinate value at-
tached by the law to
death-bed depositions,
in spite of their being
occasionally shown up
(Bulletin 9/4/T4) as
plain perjury, is an in-
heritance from British
ideas. Judge Stephen,
in his history of the
Criminal Law, calls it
“in many ways remark-
able. It has worked, I
am informed, ill in In-
dia, into which country
it has been introduced,
together with many
other parts of the Eng-
lish law of evidence. I
have heard that in the
Punjab the effect of it
is that a person mort-
ally wounded frequently
makes' a statement
bringing all his heredi-
tary enemies on to the
scene at the time of his
receiving his wound —
thus using his last op-
portunity to do them an
injury. A remark made
on the policy of the rule
by a native of Madras
shows how differently
such matters are viewed
in different parts of the
world. ‘Such evidence,’
he said, ‘ought never to
be admitted in any case.
What motive for telling
the truth can any man
possibly have when he
is at the point of
death’ ?”, Our forefathers,
as a matter of fact,
gambled on the theory
that everybody must
naturally have (1) An
intense dread of death ;
(2) a firm belief in Hell. In these modern
times, one or both of those may easily be
lacking, and then the (unsupported) dying-
declaration becomes positively dangerous.
“John P.”: A weird looking object that
answered to the name of Maurice Vancam
stepped off the Remuera at Wellington
(M.L.) the other day attired in khaki sweater
and pants and bearing round his hat the
ancient legend : “Walking Round the World.”
He was promptly escorted to the ice chest.
His yarn is that he hails from Canada, and
is hoofing it round the planet in pursuit of
the usual, indefinite old wager of £lOOO made
by some alleged individual or animal whose
address isn’t specified, except that he or its
grandfather was a monkey and lived in an
unknown and wholly unreliable tree. Van-
cam says he has walked 18,170 miles to date.
(The last lunatic of this type present scribe
interviewed swore he had walked
miles, and looked as if he might have walked
the last half-mile.) The tale is a very
rambly sort of narrative. It is to the effect
that Vancam started from Vancouver, walked
across Canada, through Uncle Samland,
Central America, Brazil and Chili. From
Chili he took steamer for Queensland. That
looks peculiar ; so does his assertion that he
crossed “The Great Australian Desert.”
When he was questioned as to the exact
locality of the Great Australian Desert he
showed a desire to shove it away up some-
where near the North Pole. Perhaps that’s
where it is.
* * * *
From Sydney Telegraph last Monday :
The city of Sydney and the harbor are very paltry
affairs. The former is a jumble of pigmy dwellings,
picked out here and there with a narrow laneway,
while the latter is.an aggregation of lagoons linked
together with slender threads of water.
“The Town Crier” :
One, Andrew Cosgrove, of Brunswick (Vic.), lately
took a gun, in a manner of speaking, and projected
a bomb at the local councillors and other interested
parties, and this writer sincerely believes he' is
acting on sound lines and will continue the good
work. In effect, he notified the councillors that under
the Local Government Act they, were entitled to make
an overdraft only up to half the amount of the year s
revenue from rates, and as they had exceeded that
sum this year by £lBl7 13s. he proposed to sue
them collectively and severally for penalties for
breaching the law. He also notified the accommodat-
ing bank that the limit of borrowing had been passed
and if it loaned any more moneys, something would
happen. Reference was lately made in The Bulletin'
to the neighboring Northeote’s tremendous loan liabil-
ity of £BB,OOO. Now it appears that Brunswick,
possessing among its citizens 8000 or 9000 adult
males, has a total, indebtedness of £134,600, and an
overdraft of £18,835 9s. Bd. Thus the blessed
councillors, on a rate revenue of £34,035 13s. 4d.,
have not only borrowed the above-named compara-
tively huge sum, but have also “touched” the ban.c
for the utmost available penny. I don’t know what
the penalty is for this sort of thing, but I know
posterity will have to stand the bulk of it as usual.
THE MTGHTABIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On the best of authority we declare that many of
these contests are mere exhibitions of sanguinary
brutality, and we have to thank the police and some
of the promoters that some of them have not ended
in actual slaughter.— Presbyterian parsons on boxing
in Sydney.
There might abin a murder at the boxin’ match
to-night;
A ’omieide or murder as a finish to the fight;
There mighta bin a sorry corpse a-layin’ on the
floor,
Unless one bloke ’ad signified ’e didn’t want no
more:
’ls eyes was black, ’is nose was red, likewise ’is
ear was burst;
’E mighta slung ’is alley—but they slung ’is towel
first.
When Chewey Dargan swung ’is right to Boyo Jack-
son’s ’ead,"
’Ow did we know but Boyo mighta laid there stiff
and dead ?
And wot was there to guarantee, when Boyo played
’is tune,
That Chewey’s funeral wouldn’t come the foll’rin’
afternoon ?
So ’elp me bob, two dismal stiffs they mighta wal-
lered there,
With that tremenjus ’ittin’ —if they ’adn’t ’it the
air.
There’s blokes like Patrick Bradley; and it’s easy for
to guess
That if Bradley ’it a parson, then there’d be one
parson less;
Did ye see them thund’rin’ wallops that the little
bloke let fly?
But Ed McGoorty ducked ’em, so ’e didn’t ’ave to
die:
There mighta bin a Oshkosh kid that laid all cold
an’ stiff
If Eddie ’adn’t blocked the blow; yes, that’s the
question, if.
Suppose a parson, trained on tea, or fed on milk
and buns,
Was standin’ up to Saylor—why, he’d git the count at
once!
And friendly little curates, with a ’eart of lemonade,
If Mehegan crooked ’is finger, they’d be tremblin’
and afraid ;
But blokes that fight are trained to stop a blow
with either ’and ;
And, strike me pink ! them smasliin’ ’its —ow often
do they land?
Bless me, the ’armless football field can ’ave its
’undred dead,
And toffs git strained at tennis, but there’s never
nothing said!
But let a ’ard-worked boxer lose a bit o’ blood an’
skin
(No more than wot a ’ockey-stick might do upon
a shin),
And, strike me red-and-yaller, all the parsons ketch
their breath,
And start to ’owl of murder, and to preach of
sudden death.
I’d like to get inside the ring, to show them parson
lot
'One little tap won’t kill a cove, not while ’is blood
is ’ot;
.I’d like to eddicate these blokes (I don’t know arf
their names),
But nowadays I ain’t much good at any sort of
games:
For, long ago, when I was young, and more than
arf a fool,
I broke an arm and leg while on my way to Sun-
day-school.
N.S.W.
THE BRUISED REED.


DISORDERS OF THE MIDDLE-AGED MAN.
After the age of fifty even the most healthy
of men find it necessary to make some changes
in their methods of life. They can no longer
eat and drink whatever fancy dictates, and
they require regular hours of rest and sleep.
Some little weakness begins to develop. It-
may be dyspepsia in one of its multifarious
forms ; gout, or some uric acid disorder ; or,
worst of all, a nervous breakdown. What-
ever form the disorder assumes, it comes so
gradually that it is oftentimes well advanced
before the,busy man realises its significance.
In all modern works on medicine, one fact
is made abundantly clear —that nearly all
disorders of this kind have their origin in the
digestive area. It is too wide a subject to
discuss here, but broadly speaking, we poison
ourselves by absorption from the intestinal
tract. It follows that if the digestive organs
could be kept in a healthy condition to
perform their functions naturally, many of
the worst disorders of middle age might be
avoided. The seat of the most serious of
these disorders lies in the intestines, and
therefore ordinary digestive remedies are of
no avail because they do not reach the
intestines at all. The most useful, all-round
remedy in these intestinal cases is petroleum,
because, unlike animal oil, it passes through
the stomach unchanged, and exercises its
soothing, lubricating disinfectant action
directly upon the intestines.
The original and standard pr pa-r tion of
petroleum for internal use is Ang'er’s Emul-
sion. In this preparation the petroleum is
purified by a special process, and combined
with hypophosphites in the form of a perfect
emulsion that is pleasant to the palate and
acceptable to the most delicate stomach.
Apart from its soothing, healing properties,
Angier’s Emulsion exerts a marked tonic,
invigorating influence, which makes it of value
in a wide variety of disorders. Of all chemists
at 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
Do you shave yourself? If so you can
get the best results by using a Diamond Edge (brand)
razor; price 7s. 6d. and 10s. 6d. each, postage 6d.
extra. Also sole agent for Apex Hair Restorer, a
true hair-grower, 4s. 6d. and 12s. 6d. a bottle. Sup-
plied only by T. Wild, 30 Sydney Arcade, Sydney.*
SEASONABLE
AND SMART.
Please state size and shade when writing.
This hat is a distinct departure
from the ordinary styles in soft
felt hats.
There is a quiet dignity about it
that imparts true individuality.
The felt is rough-finished. The
brim is adjustable, unbound, and
of medium width.
New style bow fastened at side
or back. Contrasting bands of
medium height. An excellent
hat for winter , wear.
Colors: —-Serpent Green, Light ana
Dark Fawn.
Price 12/6
PE.APES (Q. CO. LTD.
Mens Outfitters. 309-311 George Street, Sydney
About the last place where one would
look for the Bad Man out of a cowboy film
is the decorous Adelaide suburb, Medindie;
but he was there t’other day all right, horse,
“gun” and everything but the woolly leg-
gings. Having fired casually at a passer-by,
whom he accused of laughing at him, he was
locked up over-night, and in the police-court
he put up the record “thin” excuse that his
horse was a buckjumper, and he carried the
revolver to put it out of pain in case of
accident! The Court smiled tolerantly,
named a small fine, and said it would keep
the weapon. It ought also to have kept
the horse. It isn’t dead certain that it
shouldn’t have kept the man. A person who
goes buckjumping and cowboying in an Adel-
aide suburb is liable to smoke in church, and
do other profound horrors.
» ■* * *
Historical Fragment from “10-2-4” :
As an example of the sickening unoriginality of
History, it is worth noting that a row, identical in
many respects with that which caused the present
flare-up in Ulster, raged in Ireland 114 years ago.
The existing trouble arose through General Paget,
who was at the Curragh, getting an order from the
War Office to move troops to Ulster. The order
was qualified by the feeble intimation that he need
not call upon Ulster officers to go. General Paget,
who seems to be a maladroit sort of warrior, sum-
moned his officers together and told the Ulsterites
that “they might quietly disappear.” This was on
a Thursday. He mentioned casually that “by Satur-
day the whole country would be in a blaze.” What
more natural than that General Gough and the others
should take his words to mean that civil war was
imminent ? The vast ma.joritv of British officers are
Unionists—Unionism being the fashionable political
doctrine, and officers being men of fashion first and
political thinkers a long wav afterwards, as a
general thing. Many of them resigned their com-
missions; signed anti-Home Rule petitions; and did
various other unsoldierly acts. (They had precedent
to go on, by the way. At the time of the War of
Independence all those officers who were Whigs—or,
as we would say nowadays, Liberals —resigned their
commissions rather than fight against the Colonials.
Chatham’s own son led the way, acting under his
father’s orders.) Then came explanations from
Asquith, Colonel Seely (speaking for the War Office),
General Paget a; b others —none of which have any-
thing to do % ; <ii i'-g' q”estion under discussion.
And new for i e 114-year-old analogy. The
Union v s i nmin t. The Articles had been
agreed to i:i Loth the Lords and the Commons. The
alleged Irish Parliament—mostly English nominees—
had_ been prorogued never to meet, again. Public
feeling was as embittered on the Irish question as it
is to-day. At this stage an express arrived in Ire-
land from the Marquis of Downshire, urging the offi-
cers of ike Downshire Regiment to oppose the Union
by every means in their power. In other words, he
asked them to disregard the War Office on a .point
of political principle; just as prominent Unionist
noblemen have been urging Unionist officers to do of
late. _By a misunderstanding very similar to that
by which Generals Paget and Gough were beguiled,
the contents of the letter became public property.
Also, an anti-Union petition, which had been sent
for signature by those officers of the Downshire Regi-
ment alone who were freeholders of the County of
Down, was exhibited coram populo, and was signed
by practically everybody that saw it. According
to a correspondent of Lord Castlereagh ( vide “Mem-
oirs of Viscount Castlereagh”) “all signed that were
present, but one —-freeholders, non-freeholders, chil-
dren, etc., etc., and as for the men, drum-boys, fifers,
etc., all signed, or were signed for, as your Lordship
wiU see by comparing it with the muster-roll.”
(This performance bears a humorous resemblance, by
the way, to the sort of thing that occurs in the case
of all petitions.) The Government of the day acted
with far more stronuousness than the Asquith Gov-
ernment did. Lord Downshire was removed from
the command of his regiment, from the Governor-
ship of the County, from the office of Registrar 'in
the Court of Chancery, and his name was erased from
the list of the Privy Council. Also, the officers
associated with him were punished in various ways.
In the end, as we know, after illimitable talk of
bloodshed, the Act of Union was consummated fairly
peacefully; and so, in all likelihood, will it be pres-
ently when the Act of Federation has to be accom-
plished.
NOT A QUADRUPED.
THE MAN : “Yes, as I was fust saying to
Fred when you went past, ‘ There go the
four prettiest legs on the beach!"
BOTH GIRLS: “FOUR!! Whatever do you
mean? Tin not a horse."
A BUSINESS DEAL.
DOCTOR: “You are suffering from a complication of diseases, Mr. Isaacs—at least six."
ISAACS : “How much discount do you gif me on half a dozen? ”
In Sydney, a few days ago, the usual old
band of masked criminals walked into a
suburban house where an evening party was
raging, and effectively cleaned up the 20 and
odd men who were present. But for solid nerve
their effort did not approach that of a couple
of malefactors who operated in the city, a
night or so later. According to a scandalised
daily paper reporter :- \
They stood under the glare of an electric light, and
remained for quite ten minutes trying to open the
front door of Mr. James Gourlay’s tailoring estab-
lishment, 424 Pitt Street, city. The door is
only a few feet back from the footpath, and the
affair occurred at 8 o’clock at night, at a time
when people were passing in dozens.
This journal would be in no wise surprised
to learn that a cute firm of robbers had put
one of the local cathedrals up to auction,
and knocked it down, for cash, to the highest
bidder. And if the buyer turned out
to be a policeman there would be no occasion
for excessive amazement.
* * * *
The Sydney Scotchbyterians assembled
last week and “the religion and public morals
committee” produced a report which started
off with the old lament that plate-money
was as scarce as ever. But it wasn’t put
as plainly as that. According to the re-
ligious reporter of the evening paper, “re-
gret was expressed that there was no observ-
able diminution in the volume of the human
stream that set towards recreational resorts
and away from the places of worship.” Which
was a characteristically windy and parsoni-
cal way of putting it. But the draughty,
sunless, dusty, germ-haunted church or cathe-
dral never makes any serious effort to com-
pete with the healthy, sunlit beach and the
harbor-side picnic ground. The holy people
could hardly put the choir ladies into pink
tights and mix ragtime with the hymns,
while the curate ran a shooting-gallery in
the chancel and the verger looked after
swing-boats and a soft-drink fountain in the
vestry; but at least the place of worship
should be made sanitary and structurally
safe. Last week the regular customers of
All Saints’ Cathedral, Bathurst, were in-
formed that, during 1913, a beam which was
the chief support of the building (of which
the walls were cracked and the foundations
defective) was held in position by only three
nails! Who Would take refuge from a par-
ticularly hospitable Devil in such a place?
The complicated and long-winded Catts
matrimonial case, tried in the N.S.W. courts,
ended in the delivery of an order that Eva
Alice Catts should return to the roof of
James Howard Catts, Federal politician, and
there live happily ever after. Of course,
such an order doesn’t count for very much.
It is never really enforced. When the Smiths
are commanded to reunite the police don’t tie
Mrs. Smith on a wheelbarrow, and wheel her
to the house of Smith, and hand her over
amid cheers. She is simply bidden to go
home, and, if she doesn’t go, Smith can get
a very sudden divorce. In fact, the order for
the restitution of conjugal rights is a good
heap of a failure. It would be much more
successful if the Judge could decide
what the parties are to say when they meet,
and how they are to say it. The rule
ought to be laid down that Mrs. Smith, re-
turning by the order of the Court after the
separation, should arrive about dusk on a
beautiful evening, wearing a shy, happy
smile, a tinge of color in her cheeks and
very becoming clothes. The room should
be spotless, tidy and brightly lighted, and
the table—with chrysanthemums* in the
middle of it —should be nicely laid' for tea.
The infant, if any, should be good and have
on its best pinny. The cat should occupy
a contented and homelike attitude on the
couch, even if a 201 b. weight had to be tied
to it to prevent it bolting. Mrs. Smith
should come in timidly, and Smith, instead
of recriminating, should get up and hold
out his arms as in the honeymoon days, and
say that this reunion made up for every-
thing. If the Court could fix up a restitu-
tion of conjugal rights on that basis it
would do good work. But if the wife plods
home through the rain, in a shoddy hat and
a defiant mood, and finds a dim light, and
nothing on the table but dirty dishes and
the remains of a fish, and the gentleman
says briefly, “Is that you again, you brute?”
and the lady says briefly, “I see you’re
still drinking”—then nothing very good can
come of the Court’s decision. Some wealthy
philanthropist who is on his death-bed might
do worse than leave a big sum to found a
special Order of Sisters of Mercy to deal
with cases of this sort. The Sisters would
look up the parties when the order was
made, and arrange the hour of reconcilia-
tion. Certain of them would clean and
scour and tidy up the house till it looked
like a good place to go back to. The
eldest Sister would speak like a mother to
Smith and pei'suade him to wear his best
clothes and his cleanest shave for the occa-
sion. Two young Sisters would dress Mrs.
Smith, and do her hair beautifully, and
bring her along. A really picturesque
Sister would stay for an hour, if the parties
wished, and serve the tea, in order to bridge
over the first awkwardness of the new honey-
moon. Then it is several chances to one
that the restitution of conjugal rights would
be a success. But when the Court, so to
speak, simply opens the door and shoves the
lady in, and says “Here she is,” the business
is sordid, and comes to no good.
“ Jeames,” reminiscently :
According- to a cable of last week:—
“The<.directors of the Astor Night Club in Leices-
ter Square have been fined £7OO for allowing the
sale of, liquor after hours to people who were ille-
gally introduced to the premises.”
.. Right poignantly does it bring back to memory
bursts, of long ago. A. William-Cann, Martin Luther
and I had just embarked on the sea of London life
as gentlemen’s gents. We were three of the smartest
young , valets in the metropolis. Dressed in our
masters’ clothes we cut impressive figures at the
Alsatians; the Percy Supper Club, off the Totten-
ham C&urt Road ; the Pretoria and other resorts of
that class. "Clearly across the bridge of years can
1 see,Martin posing to an edified fille de foie in the
Percy,7as a millionaire silver miner from the Upper
Amazon, while William-Cann and I "figured as
' guardsmen or something similar. Quite a lot of
> thjs" sort of thing is done at night-clubs,
v The Alsatians was perhaps the best of the lot —
though all night-clubs are really the same night-
club, when everything is said and done. It was
in Oxford-street, and was run in those days by an
aged,, gentleman of U.S. origin, who called himself
“the Colonel.” I believe he was really an honorary
admiral from Bolivia. I had the good fortune to be in
the ballroom of the club when he was shot in the
leg by a fellow-Yankee whom he had annoyed in
some way. Game as a pebble the old warrior drew
a large revolver and just missed blowing an adjacent
waiter’s brains out. He also put a bullet into
a looking-glass and another into the piano. At this
stage I left, briskly, for the Guards’ Club —that is
to say, for my master’s domicile.
To become a member of the Alsatians one needed;
to be proposed by the porter and seconded by a,
waiter, and to ante up the annual subscription fee-
on the spot. One then gave some such name as,-
William Makepeace Thackeray or Lord Byron, andl
was forthwith admitted to the freedom of the entire-
bagnio.
A night-club is the best place in the world to learn*
to dance. The ladies who frequent such spots will!
dance for ever with the veriest beginners, in return
for drinks and supper. The floor is always good
and the band likewise, till the early hours of the
morning, when the performers become blithered or
stunned. It is also the most amusing club in the
world from the point of view of very young men
about town, and lads from one or other of the Uni-
versities. Wherever else youths of this type may
feel lonely, they are perfectly sure of encountering
kindred spirits, male and female, at a night-club.
Leicester Square is an ideal place for, a night-club.
In fact, there was one somewhere between Cavour’s
and the Alhambra in my own hot youth. Patrons
just reeled down the steps of the Empire and across
the road; and there they were till daybreak, if so
disposed. An inadequately squared body of police
raided that particular establishment in the first
flush of its lusty youth, and it fell dead for ever.
I expect that the Astor made a similar mistake in
regard to the police. The only way to achieve, in
a night-club, that peace which passes the under-
standing of social purity enthusiasts, is to thoroughly
fix the police.
The night-club movement hasn’t got properly
going in Sydney yet, but there are indications that
it is coming. When it does, may the names of Oliver
Cromwell Jeames and Martin Luther Heep be the
first on the roll of membership. If we fail, between
us, to show the locals a point or two in the way of
uproar, then are we unworthy to be called English-
men.
“Women don’t mind being laughed at,”
says Miss Adela Pankhurst in Melbourne.
Miss Pankhurst may know a great deal about
suffragettes ; she knows little about women.
The average woman would rather be slapped
in the face than sniggered at. Her eternal
vigilance with regard to the niceties of dress
springs largely from fear of the guns of the
other slie-cat—the Cheshire cat. Hence the
never-failing query, “Is my hat on straight?”
* * * *
Miss Adela Pankhurst, talking off the plat- -
form, charges the London police with making ;
a bit out of the Suffragette Cause by annex- .
ing all the valuables they have picked up in,
their raids. When the police broke into the*
W.P.U. rooms some 12 months ago they car-
ried off a mass of papers, including
containing postal notes, etc. In fact they,-
captured funds amounting to £3OO, the Panki-
burst lady alleges, and though they returned]
all the documents in due course, they kepift
every bean of the boodle. All applicatio«s
for restitution of the stolen property are a
mere waste of time, according to the Suf-
fragette statement. But is a Suffragette state-
ment, in its probably reckless untruthfulness,
worth any more than a police statement, in
its probably audacious mendacity? And con-
sidering that the Woman Suffrage Cause has
the sympathy of every intelligent man, as
Ellen Terry claims for it, is it likely that an
audacious theft of W.P.U. cash by a body
of official marauders could be permitted?
The male champions of the Cause in Parlia-
ment, and out of it, must be a poor lot if
they couldn’t raise a hullabaloo over such an
outrage against the sacred rights of proputty.


(I) The beginning was
made in aboriginal days,
when Binghi laid the
keel of the first Austra-
lian battle catamaran.
(a) This Is the picture
of the strike.
I 3) Be Quiros, the Spaniard,
J i „ (This may be
rame along. t ,ns /
. , leeend.) He decided to
complete the unfinished craft
and add it to his fleet.
(4) Unfortunately religious differ-
ences interfered with the work, and
De Quiros gave it up.
(5) Captain Cook inspected the craft, and said it was a mighty good
ship, and if he had a minute to spare he would finish it and make
it a valuable member of his squadron. Unfo#®unately he had to hurry
back to England to interview George HI.
(6) Governor Phillip made some slight addi-
tions to the work, and tried to make it look
more like the vessel of his period. By ill-luck
there was so much flogging on hand that there
was little time for building.
(7) Now that there is a great
resurrection in Australian de-
fence ideas the vessel is being
really completed. But the busi-
ness is slow.
OUR FIRST BATTLESHIP.
Australian warships are being built at Cockatoo Dock, Sydney. It is complained that the progress is very slow.


m
PARTY
covernme* 't
k mill. /
THE RIDICULOUS PARLIAMENTARY MILL.
AUSTRALIA: “I put plenty of beans into the thing, but get precious little coffee out.”


WHEN THE BEST costs no more than the second-
rate, who would have the latter? If you want per-
fect, permanent pencopies when using Penduplicate
books you can get-it by insisting on having Zanetic
supplied. Every sheet stamped Zanetic. Free sample
for stamped envelope to Zanetic Works, Leicester,
’
GAELIC WHISKY
is now supplied in the
NEW PATENT NON-REFILLABLE
GUARANTEE BOTTLE.
The characteristics of GREAT
AGE, PURITY and QUALITY
have been most carefully pre-
served.
Agents: ORME, KEIGWIN§CO.Ltd.
269*271 George Street, Sydney.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [3
EVERY DAY
more people are proving that
in
is the best washing preparation tor
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub—lengthens the
life oi the clothes.
r
7Wi
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SVDNEV.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
ELLEN TERRY, as she appeared at the
Mayoress's reception in Melbourne Town Hall.
The cable mentioned casually the other
day that Nona Thomspn, a Maoriland artist,
had had some canvas and paint accepted for
exhibition at the New Salon in Paris. Miss
Thomson hails from Invercargill, the little
Prohibition town away at the Ice and Mud
Oyster end of the Borrowing Isles. EUr
people are of considerable tonnage, having
taken up big lumps of the sub-Antartic por-
tion of M.L. in the very early days. The re-
sult is that they own about half the business
part of the “dry” town.
The Oldest and Most Venerable Inhabi-
tant :
An old Sydneyite recently crossed the Divide
at Hartlands, Cranford, Essex (Eng.)—Bessie, relict
of Sigmond Hoffnung, at the age of 74 years’. Sig-
mond Hoffnung commenced business in Sydney in
1853, in one of two shops which stood in George-
street, between the Bank of New South Wales and
the Commercial Bank. Later on the banks annexed
the shops—one each —and extended. Mrs. Hoff-
nung was a Miss Marks, her brothers being partners
in the Hoffnung business. She left Svdney about
30 years ago.
“0.T.” writes: —
On a recent Saturday about 4000 people gathered
round the grave of John Batman (who shares, with
Jonn Pascoe Fawkner, the honor of having founded the
city of Melbourne) in the old cemetery to pay a
tribute to the memory of this Australian-born ex-
plorer and adventurer. The ceremony, which was
arranged by the Early Pioneers’ Association of Aus-
tralia, was the first of its kind, though John has
been dead 75 years. He was a Parramatta native,
born in 1800, some say the son of a missionary
who mished at Tahiti; but no such name appears in
a list of missionaries. The father was a soldier,
Bateman, by name. John went to Van Diemen’s
Land in 1820 “over a girl” arid farmed there.
He was, too, the agent of a land syndicate which
sought to annex Port Phillip.
A bogus Lord Stauton Plope, masquerading
as a member of the Hopetoun (Linlithgow)
family, has been having a good time in Eng-
land at the expense of confiding tradesmen
and the suburban snobocracy. The Hope
clan is very numerous, and the collapse of
the bogus lordling has revived the old story
of the parson who was preaching to a crowd
of Hopetoun relatives in the wayback times
when noble clansmen were expected to gather
once a year at the chieftain’s ancestral seat.
They were sufficiently numerous to fill the
jocal kirk on the Sawbath. The new meen-
ister, by way of offering an apologetic sug-
gestion that disappointments come to even
the best families, said, “Alas, my friends!
this world is full of blasted Hopes.”
The early fathers of the Eight Hours move-
ment in Melbourne have just heard of an
old-time carpenter (aged 94) who claims to
have marched in the first Eight Hours’ pro-
cession. Joe Webster, the ancient aforesaid,
abandoned his. trade and left town to take up
land at Wahgunyah by the Murray River.
Whilst his mates were passing out in Mel-
bourne- he flourished on the land and grew
vines, so the “Early Pioneers’ Association”
knew him not. Next vear (d.v.) the execu-
tive will get him for an exhibit in the proces-
sion, though a healthy nonogenarian advt.
for the simple life at Wahgunyah district
seems hardly fitted for the part of grand old
man in a city festival.
“Vic” writes:—
This State wakes up over its obligation to Mitchell,
the explorer. There are several obelisks on what is
called the Major’s line. One is just dedicated at
Expedition Pass, near Castlemaine. Pyramid Hill
took the lead with a memorial on the peak, so
named by Mitchell. There is another cairn on Mount
Arapiles. At Portland they are laying the founda-
tions of an obelisk where Mitchell met the Hentys.
Similar movements are raging at Swan Hill, Hor-
sham, Hamilton, Nagambie, Dookie and Wangaratta.
Is not this getting a trifle ridiculous? ITovell and
Hume, and the rest, would need to be similarly scat-
tered about the country. Is there to be “Forrest” on
every milestone of the Westralian railway like those
annoying advertisements of tea all along the
lines to Melbourne and Sydney (“One Hun-
dred Miles to Swigger’s,” “Ninety-nine and
three-quarter Miles to Swigger’s”) ? School-
inspector Long started the Mitchell furore in
Victoria, and it is getting much to furious. Mitchell
went through Expedition Pass on the return journey.
His bullock waggon broke down, which led him to
the discovery of Macedon from Mount Alexander.
He was of classical bias, thinking of Alexander the
Great and Philip of Macedon.
“B.B.”: I loathe to apply the acid of mere
fact to glowing romance, but “B.’s” remarks
(30/4/’l4) about Pat Campbell, his wife and
her new husband, are over the odds. F’rin-
stance: —
The late Pat Campbell was a dashing, daredevil
officer, the kind of man who didn’t care a damn
Handsome, fascinating, and a real good sort, he was
out for death or glory. His remains were interred
m the 0.R.C., near Kimberley.
I knew Campbell well in S’Africa. He was
not an officer, dashing, daredevil or other-
wise. As a master of fact he was a humble
Yeomanry sergeant. He didn’t dash worth
tuppence. He was a bitterly disap-
pointed man, and it was notorious
that, like many another, he had selected
the war as a golden opportunity to
commit suicide creditably. He wasn’t buried in
Kimberley, but at a small cemetery in a dorp,
by name Boshoff, in the Orange River State,
When I last saw his grave, which was some
time after his death, it was surmounted by a
superb wooden cross, made from a biscuit
box. “B.” might do worse than tell Mrs.
Cornwallis West 11. about that S’African
grave.
W. H. BURGESS , well-known merchant
of Hobart (Tas.).
Webb Gilbert, who left Melbourne last week
for a four-years sojourn in Europe, took two
commissions with him to help him on his way.
ri • do a bronze figure of Grief (whose
Grief G for a Sam Gillott memorial, and a
bust of the late J. C. Williamson in marble,
which will adorn the vestibule of the forth-
coming comedy theatre, in Melbourne. Hugo
Meyer undertook the financing of Webb Gil-
bert for the four years ahead of him, which
will be his first experience of freedom from
the inartistic cares of a cook’s life at a caf<§.
up to almost the time of his departure, the
sculptor stuck to his position as chef at
larer Brothers’ feedery, in Bourke-street.
lime was when he despaired of being able to
carry on his other work-—in his studio at
home. He was losing money by his artistic-
endeavors and was thoroughly down in the
mouth. Then Prout Webb, the Income Tax
Commissioner, came to the rescue with a
commission for a piece of sculpture, and has
been a systematic friend ever since.
The professional purveyor of the super-
natural brand of Terewth is notoriously in-
accurate when it comes to the affairs of this
world ; and American Sunday journalism is
a frantic business. But the wildest sort of
journalism would hardly dare to brand a re-
ligious tradesman as a liar by publishing,
without authority of any kind, a detailed
story such as appears in the New York
World (Sunday, 28/12/’l3). It is an inter-
view with Ballington Booth (who used to
boss the Salvation Army in Australia), and
lie tells (or is made to tell) how he escaped
by the skin of his immortal soul from a wild
bear of the grizzly species in the Australian
forest. It wasn’t a chance circus creature,
but one of the thousands of man-eaters that
artist Norman Lindsay has unaccountably
missed when out after bears. Some slabs
from the romance :
One of the party, who was a crack shot and a
huntsman of some ability, had taken his rifle wi h
him, intending to protect us from wild beasts. We
travelled through the heart of the scrub In thoie
days there were plenty of bears in the scrub. They
kept near to the gum trees, and wherever there wi s
a grove of gum trees there were sure to be plenty
of bears around. The Australian bears in those dais
were a factor to the man who went out into the
bush. They fed around the gum trees and pursued
the policy of letting men alone as long as they were
let alone. Sometimes the female bears would plav
tricks on the traveller. They would be playful and
act almost like tame bears until they came close to
a man, when they would suddenly become aggressive
and attack him. A man had to be agile to get away
from such an attack and had to be quick with his
gun to keep from being killed.
Then a female bear, overcome, no doubt, by
the beautiful Salvation uniform, tried to
mash Ballington, was shot in the collarbone
by the ass with the gun, and became
annoyed. “With foam on its mouth, its fur
bristling with anger, it rushed at us.” How-
ever, Ballington had an inspiration, and got
behind a tree. The bear shot past, and,
when it was ready for another charge, the
mule or perjurer with the gun shot it. And
probably the only thing the purely legendary
beast wanted to do was to pull Ballington’s
Blood-and-Fire leg. This is a good sample
of what the inflamed religious imagination
can do with such unpromising material as
the playful little vegetarian koala, who sits
un aloft eating gum-leaves and posing for
Norman Lindsay.
Apparently without intending to reflect on
his law, the S. M. Herald describes H. M.
Hamilton, the newest addition to the N, S.
Wales District Court bench, as “a capable
judge of pure-bred poultry and dogs.” Still,
even among livestock, Hamilton has his
limitations. Though a confirmed dabbler in
shares, he is a poor judge of wild-cats.
Gone aloft at last, from Walkerville, an
Adelaide suburb, George Dove, vicar of that
parish under every bishop S. Australia has
had. He was a fighting High Churchman
professionally, and the gentlest, most ami-
able of rose-growers at all other times. As
an outback, archdeacon and bush missionary
in the ’7o’s lie used to do thousand-mile
journeys, riding one horse and leading
another. But it was with Walkerville, where
he lived close on 50 years in one house,
that he was chiefly connected. He was 81
when the end came.
“Professor” W. T. Mills, formerly of Mil-
waukee (U.S.), has decided to leave M.L.,
where he has spent a stormy two years as
a Labor agitator, and he returns to the
Hand of the Free (at odd times). The career
of this imported hustler has been varied.
When he first arrived in Maoriland he un-
loosed all his long-range talking apparatus
and was accepted as a Heaven-sent organ-
iser. He was appointed editor of the speci-
ally-purchased Labor page of the Welling-
ton Times, at a salary of £6OO per annum.
Ihe main plank of the United Labor Party
(Mills’s employer) was support of the Arbi-
tration Act. Up against this policy were
“Red-Feds.” These latter invited the
U.L.P. to link forces. When Mills saw
the big showing the anti-Arbitrationists were
putting up he climbed into their ’bus and
headed straight for strikes and glory. Then
the big waterside strike burst on the coun-
try* Some of the “Feds” talked about mak-
ing the streets “run with blood.” The Pro-
fessor from Milwaukee had never poured out
blood in his life, and the way some of those
people shot Paul Kruger with their mouths
anguished him. His position as a peaceful
bloodshedder became untenable, and he is
taking the long track for home.
ARTHUR STANLEY, Victoria's new State
Governor.
MY RAGTIME FUNERAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw a funeral to-day,
A trailing line of woe,
That passed along the sunlit way
With black plumes drooping low,
And tear-stained folk that crept behind
The cold thing ’neath the pall—
-5 could not ’rase it from my mind
That doleful funeral.
Now, for myself, when I must start
That journey to the place
Where one is emptied from the cart,
And no mere may retrace
Ilis steps along the sunny-side,
Nor ever may recall
The joyousness of youth’s warm tide—
Here is my funeral:
I want the boys to come for me
Upon a sky-blue morn,
Wearing the same solemnity
That they have always worn
Since first we met and friendship grew
To be our all in all —
I want the gang to see me through
A ragtime funeral.
Say, roll me down to Jordan’s shore
Behind a two-step band,
All care-free as we rolled before
Old Gabriel took a hand.
We 11 pull up at the pubs we know.
And give the girls a call.
We’ll make this proposition go—
This ragtime funeral.
I see us swinging through the gates,
The Gates of Fare-you-well,
A lot of happy reprobates
Who sound the passing knell
With lobsters’ hoofs on dead marines
While I slide to my stall—
Yes, sir, I’m saving up some beans
For that ragtime funeral.
N.S.W.
THE SNAKE.


m\
m
m
m
\ '4*
tmm
J/
fill
A
l to t *<'
A
i
y.-?
s*fe^
*3K
A
1
V
u
Come a Yard Strong!”
THAT’S the play with Gowing’s Austral Suits. The harder you go the better they weat
For durability, cut and finish they are unbeaten. We quote :
Austral Suits to Measure-63/-, 70/-, 75/-, 84/-, 90/-, 95/-, 105/-, 110/- & 115/-
Send for our new Catalogue of Everything for Men’s
and Boys’ Wear.
SPECIAL NOTE.—Come to us for your Winter Overcoat—we have the most complete stock in
the Commonwealth.
GOWING BROS
“PIONEER DISTRIBUTORS OF AUSTRALIAN GOODS,”
•J
484, 486, 488 & 490 George Street; & 3,5, 7, 9,11,13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, SYDNEY.


“I s Woodworking Machinery 8 Engineers’ Tools
COVENTRY CHAINS FOR MOTOR LORRIES.
Kindly let us have your enquiries. “ INGECO ” FARM ENGINES.
32*34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Overall, McCray, Ltd.
44 Campbell Street
SYDNEY.
SPECIALTY:
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow-
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Large Stocks also on hand—Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings,
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Pumps, &c. Send for Catalogue.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
A whiff from the gallant old Melbourne
boom-time period drifted into this oitice last week
in the shape of a prospectus of “Laluma Plantations
Proprietary Ltd.” The idea is to acquire land in
the Solomons, and work it as co'coanut plantations,
a lie germ of the scheme, whose birthplace is the
offices of Snowball and Kaufmann, Melbourne, is one
Mr. Cuthbert Kaufmann, who “has secured offers of
two blocks of suitable land—ore of abo. t COO acres
and another of from 500 to 1000 acres ’ (a wide
margin here). He has also “lodged an application for
a third block of 500 acres, on which are a large
number of native cocoanut trees in full bearing ”
(Incidentally, he is willing to be manager fer live
years presumably at an adequate salary.) These
assets Kaufmann is prepared to assign to the com-
pany, on terms The terms are that out of 30,000
£1 shares (12,000 preference and 18,000 ordinary)
he shall be handed 12,000 ordinaries fully paid up to
20s. (He will also lave a steady job for live years.)
Ihe first question that pushes itself mdel.y to the
' lc die properties which Mr. Kaufmann is
offering freehold or leasehold? Taking into consid-
eration the fact that the prospectus preserves a
murky silence on this essential point, one may sus-
pect, more or less, that the odds are in favor of the
blocks with which the investing public is to be dow-
ered, being leaseholds, and unimproved leaseholds at
that. 1 lie estimated expenditure provides that in
the first year .1150 shall be outlaid on “land, etc.,”
■and various other suits on the wages of 50 boys, the
purchase of their food, tools and a recruiting boat—
'total, £2400. For the ensuing six years the annual
‘disbursement is expected never to get far past the
£lOOO mark. And in the eighth year the trees will
tie in full bearing and splendid affluence within the
igrip of all concerned. The theory is seemingly that,
in eight years’ time, the whole at present largely un-
improved estate will be a solid mass of full-grown
trees. And all by means of the labor of 50, at
present unobtained, niggers. Also, incidentally, no
provision has been made on the estimates for the
expenses of paying white men to supervise the said
niggers, or for the cost of paying other niggers to
build quarters for the said white men It is about as
visionary a dream of financial splendor as this paper
“? s . to date. The one redeeming feature
of it is the spacious, Elizabethan nerve of the vendor
In consideration of nearly half the capital of the
co., he is prepared (it is time to get back to the
mam body of the proposition) to hand over: (1) An
offer of 600 acres (nothing said about title, about
the names or status of the persons offering, about the
price of the land, or about the amount of work done
on it) ; (2) an offer of from 500 to 1000 acres
(again nothing said about title, about the names or
status of the persons who make the offer, about the
Price, or about the amount of improvement done oil
the land, and in this case even the area seems un-
certain) ; and (3) an application for 500 acres made
to parties unspecified, on terms unspecified, and with
the same old obscurity re title. In his younger and
more stormy days this writer often applied for a
lob, .but he never once thought of floating his job-
application into a company.
* * * *
National Bank of Australasia (Mel-
bourne) :
Dividends.
Net Ord. Pref. To Re- Re-
Profits. p.c. 5 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Sept., 1906 . . 44,982 26,830 7,644 10,508 146,657
5 p.c.
Mar., 1907 .. 48,158 29,811 7,644 10,703 157,360
Sept., 1907 . . 49,943 29.511 7,644 12.488 169,848
Mar., 1908 . . 42,305 29,811 7,644 4,850 174,698
Sept., 1908 .. 49,017 29,811 7,644 11,562 186,260
Mar., 1909 . . 59,170 29,811 7,644 21,715 207,975
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
Sept., 1909 .. 59,390 35,773 9,173 14,444 222,419
Mar., 1910 .. 60,564 35,773 9,173 15,618 238,037
Sept., 1910 . . 60,392 35,773 9,173 15,446 253,483
Mar., 1911 . . 66,815 35,773 9,173 21,869 275,352
Sept., 1911 .. 63,053 35,773 9,173 18,107 293,459
Internal reserves disclosed . . 35,000 328 459
Mar., 1912 .. 77,104 35,773 9,173 32,158 360!ei7
Internal reserves disclosed . . 25,000 385 617
Bept., 1912 . . 78,742 35,773 9,173 33,796 419^413
7 p.c. 7 p.c.
Mar., 1913 .. 84,232 41,735 10.702 31,795 451.208
Sept., 1913 . . 82,283 41,735 10,702 29,846 481,054
Mar., 1914 .. 87,855 41,735 10,702 35,418 516,472
Optimism brought a good many Australian banks into
the gutter 20-odd years ago, but a more broken-
down brand of the same spirit afterwards stood well
to the National of Australasia. When its position
was only moderately good it decided to put on a bold
front and started to pay dividends in excess of what
the visible profits seemed to justify. The public
took it at its own valuation and supplied it with
far more funds than most likely would have come
in had its dividend been smaller—a very foolish
thing, no doubt, for the public to do, but as past
experience has shown, the public very often is
foolish when it has deposits to make, and considers
not the size of the profits which are being laid by,
but only of those that are being paid out. Had
there been a sudden change from national prosperity
back to national drought and drudgery, this bank
might have had a hard row to hoe. As things
turned out, it has had years of affluence and high
prices to help it, and now everything in the garden
is blooming. This table shows how the face of the
balance-sheet has changed :
Mar., ’O4. Mar., ’l4.
Notes, bills, etc. £1,856,576 £1,255.046 Dee 32 4 p c
Free deposits . . 2,456,489 4,622,885 Inc. 87.8
Deposits at in-
terest . . 3,701,668 6,659,745 Inc 79 9
Liquid assets . . 2,874,030 4,873,689 Inc. 69 5 ”
Advances . . 6,045,243 9,306,647 Inc. 53 9 ”
Premises, etc. .. 728,025 431,471 Dec. 40.7 ”
And the rather remarkable progress hasn’t stopped,
as the next table, covering the past 12 months
shows:—• ’
Liabilities.
XT , Mar., ’l3. Mar., ’l4.
Notes . .. £46,529 £38,980 Dec. £7,549
Bills, etc. . . 1,010,265 1,216,066 Inc. 205,801
Free deposits .. 4,074,674 4,622,885 Inc 548 211
Deposits at interest 6,373,955 6,659,745 Inc. 285,790
Assets.
Liquid assets . . 4,264,241 4,873,681) Inc. 609 448
Advances . . 8,818,171 9,306,647 Inc. 488 476
Premises, etc. .. 439,278 431,471 Dec. 7 807
A striking feature is the big bulk of the ’free
deposit money. At a time when monev has been
earning big interest the National has added £548 211
to its previous total of deposits, for which it navs
nothing at all, bringing up the total to £4,622,885
It looks as though a good many people were waiting
f f°™ d R y to day, hoping for more stable industrial
.conditions to turn up. In cash and liquid assets
■this bank holds now 38.8 p.c.' of all its liahiliHp,
to the public. The figure is more satisfactory S
It once was; still it is no more than it ought Vbe
considering the very large size of the free deposits
which are liable to be called for at anj' moment.
Even after it had professedly cleaned up the mess
that was left on the premises when the old boom
exploded, the National was understood to have a
pretty large holding of over-valued assets. By this
time there is probably little or none of the ancient
wreckage left. As late as 1904 there was an
item “Ileal estate other than premises, £277,921.”
All that is left of this little lot is £37,444. And
the chances are that there has been a bit of profit
on the sales. The Colonial under similar circum-
stances disclosed some accumulated surpluses this
year. Whether the National has also a hidden
stocking in the manager s room remains to be seen.
The late J. G. Addison, who was general manager:—
or chief manager, as this bank always puts it—-
was a cautions Scot with an affection for keeping a
bit in his hinder tail pocket. Judging by the
rate of profit calculated on capital and reserves com-
bined, tlierc is nothing much wrong with the assets
nowadays. This shows recent results: —
ITiom-s as Comi>Alien with Shareholders’ Funds.
Mar., ’lO. .£7 0 8 p.c. Sept., ’12.. £8 9 5 p.c.
Sept., ’lO.. G 19 1 „ Mar., ’13.. 8 15 8 „
Mar., ’ll.. 7 12 6 „ iept., ’13.. 8 8 10 „
Sept., ’ll.. 7 2 2 „ iar., ’14.. 817 6 „
Mar., ’12.. 812 2 „
Certainly it is possible for a bank to show a high •
rate of earnings through not being too partip-lar
about the class of security on which it lends money.
But the chief officers of this bank have for some,
years past been rather prominent in casting doubts
upon the permanency of recent high values, and the
fairly clean sweep they have made of old properties
in their hands show us that in one line at least they
backed their own expressed opinions.
Tooth and Co., Ltd., brewers, etc., Syd-
ney :
Net To lie- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Mar., 190 C. . 4G,f>32 8 p.c.= 30,000 10,G32 180,402
Sept., 190 G. . 38,286 8 „ „ 30,000 2,280 182,688
Mar, 1907.. 45,150 8 „ „ 30,000 9,150 191,844
Sept., 1907.. 53,889 10 „ „ 45,000 8,889 200,733
Mar., 1908.. 75,071 10 „ „ 45,000 30,071 230,804
Sept., 1908.. 02,904 10 „ ~ 46,000 17,904 248,708
Mar., 1909.. 75,372 10 „ „ 45,000 30,372 279,080
Sept., 1909.. 64,123 10 „ „ 45,000 19,123 298,203
Mar., 1910.. 78,382 10 „ „ 45,000 33,382 331,585
Sept., 1910.. 71,330 10 „ ~ 45,000 20,330 357,915
Transferred to Capita], £lOO,OOO .. 257,915
Mar., 1911. .107.833 10 p.c.= 50.000 57,833 315,748
Sept., 1911.. 99,732 10 „ „ 50,000 49,732 305,480
Mar., 1912. .124,403 10 „ „ 50,000 74,403 439,883
Transferred to Capital, £lOO,OOO .. 339,883
Sept., 1912.. 95,303 10 p.c.= 55,000 40,303 380,186
Assets written up, £350,000 .. .. 730,186
Transferred to Capital, £550,000 .. 180,186
Ord. Pref.
(10p.c.) f6p.c.)
Mar., 1913.. 86,126 55,000 10,500 14,026 194,812
(Bp.c.)
Sept., 1913.. 80,613 55,000 22,000 3,313 198,425
(10 p c.)
Mar., 1914. .169,062 55,000 27,500 86,562 284,987
Transferred to Capital, £137,500 .. 147,487
It has been a hot and dry summer in Sydney, and
tens of thousands of people never before had so much
money to wet themselves with. Yet even so, it is
very doubtful whether Tooth and Co. could have
shown such a large increase in profits without shak-
ing a few cards out of their sleeve. No doubt
they had put some of them there in view of the local-
option poll which was taken late lust year. There
was no telling how that vote would go: had some-
thing happened a few days before to turn the electors
temporarily wowser, Tooth and Co. might have lost a
few dozen hotel licenses, and with them perhaps
two-thirds of the value put upon the premises would
have gone smash. Nothing at all serious happened,
however, and the co. breathes freely again for three
years. No doubt, as hinted just now, it is some of
the provision made out of past profits against a
contingency which did not arise that has dropped
into the past half-year’s booming figures.
And having had a bit of luck, the shareholders
naturally expect something, and the directors have
almost acquired the habit of obliging' them;
£137,500 is to be capitalised, which means one new
share for every eight of the old ordinaries. This will
make the total of accumulated profits- transferred to
capital within four years £887,500. This total is
inclusive of £550,000 of 6 p.c. preference capital.
When this fine plum was handed to the shareholders
at the end of 1912 most of them seemed to think
that the preferential 6 p.c. was all that could be
reasonably expected from this issue. Bi t for the
second term the div. sprang to 8 p.c., ai.d for the
past half-year, the third, to 10 p.c. Between them
the two dividends for the half-year absorb £82,500,
and looking back it will be noticed that prior to
1910 the net profits never amounted to anything like
that figure. For some half-years, in fact, they did
not amount to one-half the total required by the
present dividend of 10 p.c. all round. And it has
to be remembered that though the capital has grown
from £900,000, at which it stood for many years,
to £1,650.000, no money whatever has been paid in
during that time by the shareholders. Certainly it
it quite probable that the net profits a few years
ago were diminished by very large appropriations
towards internal reserves. But even so, and taking
the much larger figures of the past few terms as a
basis, it seems possible that under the adverse trade
conditions which must inevitably arrive in New South
Wales sooner or later, the directors may have all
their work cut out to pay 10 p.c. all round on the
new capital of £1,787,500.
Of course, the co.’s financial position is wonder-
fully good. See how it has improved even in the
past 10 years:—
Mn 1 .. ’O4. Mar.. ’l4.
Liabilities £28,129 £51,403
Assets: —-
Breweries, properties, etc. .. 638,149 1,307,960
Book debts 253,662 212,216
Stock 149,579 164,065
Liquid assets 148,922 397,709
Thus besides making all the very large additions to
plants and properties, including purchases of other
breweries, the co. has added about £225,000 net to
its liquid assets. Breweries, properties, etc., it will
be seen, have been more than doubled, but more or
less of the accretion is due to the revaluation of
assets in 1912. Whether those assets now stand at
their true value or not it is impossible to sav. On
that point all that is plain is that there is no infla-
tion on account of goodwill, which has disappeared
entirely from the balance-sheet, although the good-
will is worth more than ever it was, seeing that three
breweries have now practically the whole beer trade
of the city of Sydney in their hands.
* * * *
The City and Suburban Building
Society (Brisbane) :
Writ- Added
Dividends and ten to Re- Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
1900 ..£5914 4 p.c. = £4007 £2ll £1696 £12,025
1901 .. 4937 4 „ „ 3221 556 1160 13,185
1902 .. 4778 4 „ „ .3221 1,417 140 13,325
1903 .. 4502 4 „ „ 3219 1,192 91 13,416
1904 .. 4547 4 „ „ 3159 1,353 35 13,451
1905 .. 4381 4 „ „ 3185 10,380 4,267
1906 . . 4142 4 „ „ 3190 463 489 4,756
1907 . . 4201 4 „ „ 3196 594 411 5,167
1908 .. 4388 4 „ „ 3184 718 486 5,653
1909 . . 4552 4 „ „ 3173 421 958 6,611
1910 .. 5068 44 „ „ 3376 1,280 412 7,023
1911 .. 5329 41 „ „ 3801 347 1181 8,204
1912 .. 5792 5 „ „ 4023 517 1252 9,456
1913 .. 6362 5 ~ „ 4021 1,208 1133 10,589
1914 .. 6458 6 „ „ 4767 1691 12,280
This society’s capital is divided amongst paid-up
and subscribing shares, but out of the total of
,£<0,900, £72,857 is of the paid up or fixed variety.
In addition to this money and the reserve funds, the
co. has the use of a fair amount of deposits. The
total of the latter on February 28 was £104,741, a
small increase notwithstanding that the money market
was pretty hard during the early part of the year.
The deposits in proportion to share capital are not
excessive, and given anything like sane management
the security should be good enough for the most
timid. The reserves are represented by £17,884 of
Treasury bills, fixed deposits, and such like securities,
along with some till money. Apart from there assets
and £7OOO in freehold premises, everything is lent
out, all of it apparently on building-society terms
The repayments seem to be fairly quick ; at any rate,
though it is mentioned that £44,680 was advanced
to borrowers during the year, the total outstanding
increased by only £594. This is a good feature. It
is when repayments are slow that a slump in values
is most likely to leave a building society stranded
high and dry, like a ship outside the Federal port at
Jervis Bay. The dividend, it will be seen, has been
put up to 6 p.c. notwithstanding which a larger
addition has teen made to reserves than for 14 years
past. Not that profits have sprung along very fast,
but because the society seems at last to have got rid
of its old load of over-valued securities, and now
reckons that it has no mere writing down to do.
That trouble is probably to come ; it isn’t when
values are high that you see bad debts in a business
like this, but it is the .time when you mostly make
them. For that reason an addition to reserves
amounting to only one-third of the dividend is none
top large-, especially considering that the reserves
amount to only about one-fifteenth of the money out
at risk. In a city liable to violent fluctuations the
brake should now be put hard down on dividends
until the profits swell much beyond their present
size.
* * * *
The Melbourne Trust, Ltd., formed in
1903 to take over what was left of the wrecks of the
City of Melbourne Bank, the Federal Bank of Aus-
tralia, and the English and Australian Mortgage
Bank:—•
Deficit
(Preliminary
Profit. Dividends. Expenses).
1903 £3,116
Hf°*> • Reserves.
1904 .. £4,899 Nil 1,783
1905 .. 4,610 Nil 6,393
1906 .. 9,925 44 p.c. = £11,389 4,929
1907 .. 15,965 6 „ „ 17,083 3,811
1908 .. 23,616 8 „ „ 22,777 4,650
Accumulated profits on sales, £148,709 .. 1531359
1909 .. 25,183 20 p.c: = 56,941 121,598
Book profit on purchase of Mercantile
Bank Assets Co., £28,782 .. .. 150,380
Other assets written up, £145,205 .. 295,585
Special distribution of assets in 4 p.c.
debentures, £246,559 .. .. .. 49 026
1910 .. 26,289 6i p.c. = 18,492 56,’823
1911 .. 34,910 8J „ „ 24,653 67,077
1912 . . 38,009 84 ~ „ 24,656 80,430
1913 . . 34,717 84 „ „ 24,656 90,491
This company,, which is the successor to a financial
undertakery, is so much in love witli the business
which it dn oped into in 1903 that during the past
year it issued a few more shares, bringing the capital
up to £300,000, and it now has under consideration
a proposal to increase this to £500,000, besides
issuing further debenture stock. To begin with, in
the rather depressed times of 1903 1,366,666 shares
of 4s. each and £392,485 worth of 4 pc. debenture
stock were issued to the shareholders and creditors
of the old busted banks in exchange for their in-
terests. Subsequently, in 1909, the Mercantile Bank
winding-up department was absorbed, and in order
to complete the transaction it became necessary to
levalue all the assets so as to make a fair division of
shares between the two. In all, £173,987 was added
to the book value of the Melbourne Trust’s assets, in-
cluding £28,782 book profit on the purchase of the
Mercantile Bank assets. Previously, £148.709, the
accumulated profits on the sale of assets, had been
added to the reserves. Combining this actual profit
and the profit expected to be realised on account
° f . the higher valuation, this co. felt justified in dis-
tributine: £246,559 in cash and 4 p.c. debentures,
equal altogether to 3s. 4d. per 4s. share. The Mer-
cantile Bank transaction involved also the increase
of shares to £1,479,355. Very soon after 1903 —
probably even before that date—a strong financial
crowd in Melbourne, scenting a highly probable in-
crease in values, had seen large possibilities in this
company and heavy purchases of shares were made
from John Bull and Alexander Mcßull. While the
London management was nominallv retained, a Mel-
bourne Board (consisting now of “Big Bill” Ballieu,
Riggall and J. H. Riley) has acquired more extensive
powers. It is not “Big Bill” Ballieu’s way to hide
his co.’s light under a bushel, and no doubt this
has something: to do with the issue of shares and
debentures to represent not only actually realised
but also expected profits. It has certainly been a
very sweet thing for those who got on to it in
1903 and thereabouts.
As properties have been sold, debentures, mostly
held on the other side, have been repurchased usually
at a profit to the company. The next table shows
both lots of transactions:—-
Re- Profit on Profit
deemed Purchase on Pro-
Debentures during of De- perty
Outstanding. Year, bentures. Sales.
Oct., 1903 .. £392,485 _
Dec., 1904 .. 304,514 £87,971 £2107 £12,175
.. 1905 . . 262,383 42,131 858 26,817
~ 1906 . . 189.579 72,804 648 31,274
„ .1907 .. 150.693 38,886 213 15,545
„ 1908 . . 89.241 61,452 110 11,519
i> 1909 . . Nil 89,241 7 47,435
1910 .. 193,953 52,606 1654 1,874
»» 1911 . . 151,057 42,896 1838 3,624
.. 1912 .. 93,882 57,175 443 12 644
.. . 1913 . . 92,970 912 49 7^677
A third profit has of course arisen from rents and
the working of properties, which include a sheep
station and a sugar estate in Fiji. The co. cannot,
however, eat its cake and have it. Hence, as pro-
perties have been sold, rents, etc., have shrunk. Cer-
tainly the co. has had the proceeds, but, as shown
above, most of the money has gone to pay off cheap
debentures, or has been put out on deposit and in
other gilt-edged securities. At the end of the year
there was still £326,326 represented by “properties
and investments” as valued in 1910, £124,761 of
Purchasers’ balances and £60,176 in cash and short
loans. On the other side, liabilities of all kinds
amounted to £100,246. Assuming that the valua-
tion of 1910 represents present values, the net assets,
after paying the current dividend, are worth Is. 3d
per share over par (4s ). On the past history of the
co. shares should, of- course, be worth a great deal
more, but the shareholders have eaten the pie they
had the luck to get in 1903. Some dav, perhaps,
they may have assets thrown at them at a similarly
low price. But there will have to be trouble in Vic-
toria first. And this co. is just as liable to be hit
by that trouble as any other co.
* * * »
National Mortgage and Agency Co.
of Maoriland:—
D . To Re- Re-
Sept.., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1904 ..£32.610 8$ p.c. =£ 1 6.999 £ 15,611 £77,400
1905 .. 40,240 10 „,, 20,000 20,240 97,640
1906 .. 34,880 10 „ „ 20,000 14,880 112,520
1907 . . 35,226 10 „ „ 20,000 15,226 127,746
1908 .. 35,456 10 „,, 20,000 15,456 143,202
1909 .. 38,141 lij „ „ 22,500 15,641 158,843
1910 .. 38,505 Il f „ „ 22,500 16.005 174,848
1911 .. 41,149 124 „ „ 25,000 16,149 190,997
1912 .. 41,669 121 „ „ 25,000 16.669 207,666
1913 .. 41,056 124 „ „ 25,000 16,056 223,722
This co., now just upon 40 years old, has its head
office in London and its general manager’s quarters in
Dunedin. Agencies are scattered over the country
from Auckland to the Bluff, but the bulk of the busi-
ness is from Dunedin southwards to Invercargill.
It is moist country where they grow great crops
of oats and fatten sheep for the freezers, which have
broken out like freckles all over the land. The eo.’s
business is to act as agent in pastoral transactions
and to finance the deals. The paid share capital
is only £ 200,000. The balance of the money re-
quired and not supplied by the reserves is raised
chiefly on debentures, and the practice is to fix them
on a five years’ currency. In addition to the paid capital
and reserves, the creditors, who have claims alto-
gether for £911,871, have the protection of an un-
called capital ot £803,000, and the shares are
understood to be in the hands mostly of people of
tremendous financial tonnage. An easy position is
always maintained. Thus at the end of the last
year a total of over £278,000 was invested in Gov-
ernment and other securities or held in cash. The
balance of the resources is chiefly out on mortgage
or employed in financing clients on current accounts.
The 111 aw ark a and South Coast
Steam Navigation Co. (N.S.W.) :
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Mar., 1906.. £3062 7 p.c.=£2614 £448 £8368
S pt., 1900.. 3079 7 „ „ 2625 454 8822
Mar., 1907.. 3348 7 „ „ 2625 723 9545
Sept., 1907.. 2628 7 „ „ 2625 3 9548
Mar., 1903.. 2406 7 ~ ~ 2025 9389
Loss.
Sept., 1908.. 1507 Nil 7882
Profit.
Mar., 1909.. 3456 7 p.c. = 2625 831 8713
Sept., 1909.. 2335 7 „ „ 2625 8423
Mar., 1910.. 2630 7 „ ~ 2025 11 8434
Sept., 1910.. 972 7 „ ~ 2025 6781
Loss.
Mar., 1911.. 3993 7 „ „ 2625 163
Profit.
Sept., 1911.. 2537 7 „ „ 2625 75
Mar., 1912.. 2643 7 ~ ~ 2625 18 93
Sept., 1912.. 2000 7 ~ ~ 2025 68
Mar., 1913.. 2647 7 ~ „ 2025 22 90
Sept., 1913.. 2606 7 „ „ 2625 71
Mar., 1914.. 3099 74 „ ~ 3000 99 170
Besides the miserable reserve shown in the table,
there is a “Repairs, suspense, public risk and con-
tingency account” of £4900. The South Coast boats
never carry a very large number of passengers, but
it is a particularly small wreck that calls for only
£4900, the ship and all the produce and pigs
are reckoned in. Moreover, the co.'s other reserves
amount to onlv £l7O. Yet even when the co. does
earn a little above the average, as it did this year,
instead of dropping the extra bit into reserves, it
hands out a bonus. Since 1906, when that table
began to take an interest in things, the co. has, on
nine occasions only, paid a dividend that would allow
of an addition to reserves; and of those nine addi-
tions four were £3, £ll, £lB and £22. The
remaining times it paid dividends which necessi-
tated a bite being taken out of reserves—on one
occasion, in 1911. when the co. made a loss of £3993,
it paid the usual dividend, with the result that the
reserves dropped from £6781 to £163, and they
have been more or less asleep ever since.
The co. still gives its profit “after providing for
depreciation, etc.” ; and it is there that the one ray
of hope lies. Take this comparison:—
March, March, Sept., March,
1905. 1913. 1913. 1914.
Liabilities .. £1,165 £5,506 £5,582 £7,098
Ship property 40,393 70,375 72,191 75,044
Liquid assets 45,863 10,531 9,957 9,125
Other assets.. 2,607 5,815 4,630 5,999
The ship property is only £2845 more than it was
six months ago, and there is one new steamer in
commission and another expected shortly, though no
doubt the £72,191 at September, 1913, included
something paid on account of the new ships. Still,
the life of an ark is very limited —especially if it
be a coaster—and a fair amount must be allowed for
depreciation. Nevertheless it appears that more than
sufficient has been written off in this case, so that
the co. has no doubt something in the shape of an
inner reserve. The co. is in a strong position finan
cially, and has £9957 of liquid assets against £5582
of liabilities. In March, 1905, shins were worth
£40,393 and' liquid assets £45,863 ; now the
steamers stand at £72,191 and liquid assets at orb
£9957. Yet the profit is £3099 as compared with
£3562 at March, 1905. It certainly looks like a
hopeless case of tired feeling: and the South Coa t.
being ruled by the Goddess Cow, isn’t the kind of
place that is likely to break a co. of its sleeping/
habit.
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors
and Trustees’ Association (Launceston) :
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Mar., 1906 ..£lO4O 8 p.c. = £420 £620 £5,317
Sept., 1906 . . 818 8 „ „ 420 398 5,715
Mar., 1907 . . 714 8 „ „ 420 294 6,009
Sept., 1907 . . 827 8 „ „ 420 407 6,416
Mar., 1908 .. 841 8 „ „ 420 421 6,837
Sept., 1908 . . 863 9 „ „ 472 391 7,228
Mar., 1909 . . 666 9 „,, 472 194 7,422
Sept., 1909 . . 605 9 ~ ~ 472 133 7,555
Mar , 1910 . . 648 9 „,, 478 170 7,725
Sept., 1910 . . 968 9 „ „ 472 496 8,221
Mar., 1911 .. 950 9 ~ ~ 472 478 8,699
Sept., 1911 .. 1009 9 „,, 472 537 9,236
Mar., 1912 . . 1071 9 „ „ 472 599 9,835
Sept., 1912 .. 1014 10 „,, 561 453 10.288
Mar., 1913 . . 996 10 ~ ~ 550 446 10,734
Sen! ion / 902 10 .. „ 545 357 11,091
p , " t Written off, £5OO .. 10,591
Mar., 1914 .. 1015 10 p.c. = 551 464 11,055
Capital is £lO,OOO in £5 shares paid to £l, leaving
a liability of £4 per share, or £40,000 in all, as a
guarantee that the co. won’t bolt with the cash or
put its clients’ funds on the wrong horse and lose the
lot. Of that £4 the co. can call in only £1 10s.
for ordinary business purposes. The other £2 10s.
acts as a “reserve liability for the protection of
clients.” Besides that there are reserves of £11,055,
as a further inducement to the public to trust it. Of
the co.’s funds, £5OOO is in premises, another
£5OOO is in the hands of the State Treasurer as a
surety for sobriety and good behaviour, £13,419 is
lent out on mortgage, £13,310 is in cash or in the
bank, and there are a few sundries. Twelve months
ago the loans on mortgage stood at £13,237, so
evidently the co. isn’t forcing that branch, which
always contains a certain element of risk. From a
shareholders’ point of view also, things are very
sweet. As in most of the newer trustee cos., the
paid capital is comparatively small, so the 10 p.c.
dividend and income tax call for only £550 or there-
abouts per half-year. And as the ,rents and interest
for the past six months amounted to £515, practi-
cally the whole of the commission goes to strengthen-
ing the co.’s position—both for shareholders and
clients.
* * * *
The Co-operative Wool and Produce
Co. (Sydney) :
Bonus Added
to to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
jg .p _p _£>
Feb., ’OO.. 8,788 6 p.c. = 304 4506 3978 6,723
April, ’Ol.. 320 6„ „ 855 6,188
•Tune, ’02.. 2,689 6 „ ~1409 1280 7-463
June, ’03.. 1,625 6 „ ~1306 319 7,787
June, ’04.. 2,012 6 „ ~1335 677 8,464
June, ’05.. 4,783 6 „ „ 1335 1742 1706 10.170
June, 06.. 9,526 6 „ ~ 1335 3183 5008 15.17 S
June, ’07.. 10,669 7 ~,,1559 4523 4587 19,765
Written off securities. £2615 .. 17,150
June, 08.. 8,066 7 p.c. =1560 2504 4002 21.152
Written off securities. £2840 .. 18,312
June, ’09.. 9,572 10 p.c. =2229 2924 4419 22.731
■Tune, ’lO.. 16,482 10 „ ~2229 6283 7970 30.701
June, ’ll.. 10,779 10 „ ~3973 5311 1495 32.196
Mar., ’12.. 7,555 10 „ ..3000 3669 886 33,082
„ £4OO written off 32,682
Mar., ’13.. 5,976 6 p.c. =2400 3164 412 33,094
Mar., 14.. 10,018 7 ~,, 2800 3784 3434 36,528


Expert Knowledge and
Sound Financial Experience
Are Essential Qualifications of
an Executor, Trustee or Attorney.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
Is specially constituted by Act of Parliament
to act as
TRUSTEE, EXECUTOR, ADMINISTRATOR,
ATTORNEY UNDER POWER, AGENT, ETC.,
and having had over 25 years’ experience in
Trust mutters, offers advantages not
possessed by private individuals.
UNDOUBTED SECURITY and
REASONABLE CHARGES
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager
Write for Booklet giving full information.
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY
TRUST FUNDS TO LEND ON APPROVED
SECURITIES AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
ALL USERS OF POWER
can materially redi(ce Working
Expenses by installing a
GAS ENGINE and
SUCTION GAS PLANT.
Write for Catalogue to [1
Scottish House, 90 William Street, Melbourne
Kynoch House, 277 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Power economically produced should be economi-
cally transmitted. You may have a perfect system
of power economy in your engine-room, you may
produce power at lowest cost and still you may be?
losing from 10 p.c. to 50 p.c. of your entire power
by inefficient transmission belting. “Pioneer”
leather belting has been found “best by test,” for,
with its perfect gripping and non-slipping—un-
affected even where loads are exceptionally heavy or
variable —“Pioneer” keeps all pulleys turning at
full speed every minute. “Pioneer” is an all-Aus-
tralian leather belting. Made from the centre cuts
of strongest oak-tanned leather and built up with
best materials and along lines which our 56 years’
experience has taught us is best. Let us help you
with transmission promblems. We’ll gladly write you
personally. Send the length of your belt drive.
“Pioneer” leather belting is made only J. C,
LUDOWICI & SON LTD., Pioneer Works, 117 York
Street, Sydney, opp. Q. V. Markets. Sold in Vic-
toria by Geo. Russell Pty. Ltd., Flinders Street,
Melbourne; in South Australia by J. McKell, Timp-
son Street, Port Adelaide; in Queensland by Queens-
land Machinery Co. Ltd., Brisbane; in W. Australia
by Horace Summers, Howard Street, Perth; in
Broken Hill by Geo. C. Dempster, Argent Street.*
* * * *
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales, and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-,,
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
* * * »
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete, the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.* [4
* * * *
Extract from The Insurance Record, London, Sep-
tember 22, 1911.—“ To have written insurances for
£5,550,000 (Ordinary, Industrial and Accident) in a
year which was marked by the keenest competition from
beginning to end is an achievement which proves that
the Colonial Mutual is a force to be reckoned with in
every sphere to which its influence extends.”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE may be laid above or
underground, and stands exposure to all, kinds of
weather and changes of temperature without deteriora-
tion. Descriptive catalogue free upon application.
THE AUSTRALIAN -WOOD PIPE CO., LTD., 57
York Street, Sydney (Head Office).* •
* * * *
Amongst orders received since the New Year by
our Brisbane Branch are the following Suction and!
Towns Gas Engines: Geo. Stupart, Esq. ; Maryborough,,
49 b.h.p., for Electric Lighting; Mackay Harbor-
Board, 43 b.h.p., for Stone Crushing; Dr. Voss, Rock-
hampton, two —each 17 b.h.p., for Electric Lighting
R. H. Treweeke, Goondiwindi, 17 b.h.p., for Sheep-
shearing ; Mrs. Devaney, Gladstone, 13 b.h.p., for'
Electric Lighting ; whilst at the present time they are-
erecting a 73 b.h.p. Suction Gas Engine and Plant:
for Messrs. Harris and Co., Rockhampton, for Electric-
Lighting purposes. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., Mel-
bourne, Sydney and Brisbane.*
The highest returns for all kinds of residues are-
obtained from Harrington’s Ltd., of 386 George-
street, Sydney, who buy large quantities of jewellers’'
sweeps, polishings, handwash and lemel, process;
workers’ residues, plating baths and any other-
materials containing gold, silver or platinum. Assays'
are executed for jewellers within two or three hours,
and prospectors and others are assured of immediate
attention. All kinds of analytical and metallurgical
work can be executed promptly, and advice given on
all branches of industrial chemistry and metallurgy.
The whole of the work is directed by a qualified
analyst and metallurgist from Johnson & Sons, Lon-
don, Assayers and Refiners to the Bank of England,'
H.M. Mint, the Council of India, etc., etc. Direct
shipments of large parcels of sweeps, residues, ores,
etc., can be sent direct to Johnson & Sons by arrange-
ment.*
* * *■ »
J. Malcolm Newman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Street,
Sydney.*
* » * «
CLAUDE BRISTOW, Assayer and Analytical
Chemist. Sampling supervised. 93 Pitt Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at:
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample!
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces r
and all modem scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
* * * *
H.M.A.S. Australia, now in Australian waters,
is fitted entirely with Babcock and Wilcox Water-
tube Boilers, similar to the H.M.S. New Zea-
land and other Dreadnoughts recently built for the
Admiralty.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
» * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to 11. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s:
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination,
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles: chemicals: etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Qualify throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatin*
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Poldi Steel
’Phone
CITY-833*.
171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
That looks better. In the previous twelve months
the co. got it in both eyes at once. Store wages and
other costs were pushed up during that period, while
drought pushed down the wool coming forward. 1 roni
66,464 bales in 1911-12 the quantity put under this
company’s hammer and sold shrivelled to 44,234 ba.es
in 1912-13. in the past year there was an improvement
to the extent of 10,666 bales, and though apparently
no increase has been made in. the selling charges to
meet the higher costs an extra profit of £4142 is
shown, after allowing for the bonus paid to the staff.
The divided profit, after cutting out this small
bonus to the staff, furnishes the clients with a rebate
of 20 p.c. of their commissions, which brings the
selling charge down to 2 p.c. —a rate which is cal-
culated to make Victorian woolgrowers envious and
isn’t calculated to make other people in the business
on this side of the Murray over-pleased with this
co-operative concern. N.S.W. growers are seemingly
poor co-operators. No doubt the fact that for
three or four years in the bad times around 1902-3
the company did not feel justified in making any
rebate, didn’t tend to attract custom. With a view
to prevent the recurrence of that mishap a Clients
Bonus lieserve Fund has been started with a pay-
ment of £2OOO out of this year’s profits. The capi-
tal, fully paid, is £40,000. This and the reserves
are nearly all represented by store premises, housing
both the station produce and grain departments, at
Pyrmont. Total liabilities on March 31 were
£45,893, but against that there were sundry debtors
for £57,758. #
Broken Hill Block 10, one of the once-
big Barrier silver-lead-zinc propositions:—
Profit. Divs. Profit. Divs.
Mar., ’O4 £12,680 Nil Mar., ’lO £3,422 £20,000
Sept., ’O4 11,090 Nil Sept., ’lO 15,243 15,000
Mar., ’O5 20,438 Nil Mar., ’ll 28,991 10,000
Sept., ’O5 114,340 £15,000 Sept., ’ll 11,479 10,000
Mar., ’O6 46,804 60,000 Loss.
Sept., ’O6 49,625 30,000 Mar., ’l2 8,851 10,000
Mar., ’O7 61,945 55,000 Profit.
Sept., ’O7 65,786 50,000 Sept., ’l2 36,049 10,000
Mar., ’OB 12,256 30,000 Mar., ’l3 16,861 20,000
Sept., ’OB 22,080 5,000 Sept., ’l3 37,481 20,000
Mar., ’O9 39,284 10,000 Mar., ’l4 17,467 30,000
Sept., ’O9 28,844 20,000
Tilings don’t look very well by comparison with
the previous half-year, but the backsliding is not
as bad as it looks. As the tail piece to a discredit-
able story which need not now be repeated, old by-
products dumps which had previously been written
down were written up again. That swelled the
previous half-year’s profits by £9660. The metal
markets had also been rising, so that £5579 was
received by way of surpluses on by-products not
previously settled for finally. In the past half-
year the markets moved a trifle the other way,
with the result that there was not only nothing to
collect on account of past shipments, but a reserve
created to provide for the adjustment of any over-
payments was drawn upon to the extent of about
£3BOO. Deducting this amount, the profit for the
half-year is really less than shown above, which is
pretty miserable for a mine with Block 10’s past
record.
Block 10 is, however, a very striking warning to
speculators and people who “invent” in mines that
all mines are mortal and most--mines very short-
lived. In some of its upper pipes Block 10 was
wonderfully rich. But instead of lasting down
indefinitely the lode refused to be worth anything
below about 1615 ft. Over 12 months ago diamond
drilling was done at the 1815 ft. level, and the
result of that and a good deal of driving was the
development of small ore bodies worth about three
to five oz. silver and 3 p.c. to 6 p.c. lead and
almost barren of zinc. The 1715 ft. level was not
much better. Twelve months ago ore reserves were
estimated at 220,800 tons. Since then 97,913 tons
of ore have been broken and sent to the mill. A
development on what is known as the western ore
body has stood to the dying co., and in sight on
March 31 it was estimated that there were still
228,900 tons, so the year’s development has rather
more than supplied the year’s ore. The western
ore body is small and its area ascertained. The
only hope now seems to lie in the discovery of other
western patches. From the bottom of the mine
nothing further can reasonably be expected. From
parallel bodies, on the other hand, it is quite
possible that something substantial may be got,
though it will cost money to look for them.
Without making deduction for depreciation of
plant the profit for the half-year was £23,879, or
at the rate of 9s. 9d. per ton. This includes pay-
ments made on account of tailings and slimes. '
Assuming a similar profit for the future, there is
£111,500 exposed in the mine. The surplus of
liquid assets on March 31 was £97,614. Total of
the two, £209,114. There are 100,000 shares, so
the liquid surplus plus the visible profit is equal
to a shade under £2 2s. per share. But probably
the price based on the last two years’ metal prices
is too favorable. Zinc, at any rate, has tumbled
during that period.
* * * *
J. E. Scantlebury was up again last week
with an application to suspend work at the Hill End
Amalgamated (N.S.W.). After talking of the money
that had been spent, he mentioned incidentally, in
proof that the game wasn’t up yet, that the co. still
had £BOOO to play with. Whereupon the warden
said his course as laid down by the law was quite
plain—he couldn’t grant suspension to a co. that
was in funds, even though those funds might not be
sufficient for the programme it had mapped out for
itself. In that case, said Scantlebury, the game, he
was afraid, was up, so far as Hill End is concerned.
There is money waiting in the Mines Department to
assist in exploring the deep ground at Hill End,
but Scantlebury’s plan for doing it doesn’t find
favor. Probably Scantlebury himself doesn’t find
much favor with the Mines Department either. The
story told now is that if Scantlebury can’t get his
own way, he will recommend that the money in
hand be either divided among shareholders or
invested elsewhere. This looks like bluff, even if it
isn’t. At any rate, shareholders will recognise that
if either course is adopted all their money spent so far
will be lost for ever; whereas if the Mines Depart-
ment’s proposals for testing the deep ground are
accepted, and the Government subsidy be thereby
secured, the money may possibly be all recovered.
Scantlebury may know more about Hill End than all
the officers of the Mines Department put together;
but the loss of the capital hitherto spent, in addition
to the Government subsidy and the chances of making
a “pot,” will be a pretty stiff price to pay for say-
ing that it shall be either Scantlebury’s plan or none
at all.
* * * *
From Ardlethan: Mining-engineer J. M.
Newman arrived here to-day (Tuesday) from Syd-
ney, and if current rumor is anything to go by, he
has been brought up to report on the Carpathia. It
is just 12 months since he reported on this mine, and
Logan Jack has been there since then. Newman’s
next report should be instructive.
* * * *
Another appointment has been made to the
staff which the Broken Hill Prop, is getting together
tor is new iron and steel works at Newcastle: J. H. F.
Hill, a Sydney graduate, who for 10 or 12 years past
has been doing solid work on the surface plants at
the mine, has been put in charge of the coke and by-
products plant.
During April the mineral despatches from
Broken Hill totalled 72,039 tons valued at £381,987.
The most valuable shipments were 28,268 tons of
lead concentrates ( £267,643), 40,082 tons of zinc
concentrates ( £105,599) ; 2481 tons of crude lead
ore (£5038); 1109 tons of lead slimes (£3513)
and 99 tons of zinc slimes ( £194). Lead slimes
were valued at over 625. ; zinc slimes at 395. ; lead
concentrates at over £9; and zinc concentrates at
525. per ton.
* * * *
British Broken Hill’s profits for the past
three half-years: December, 1912, £61,836; June,
1913, £50,968 ; December, 1913, £46,478. The fall in
the metal markets fias told its tale —or, at any rate,
some of its tale. The British is a mine with large
possibilities and an Australian directorate consisting
of three highly respectable old gentlemen who reckon
something a little short of 300 years among them.
The right amount of energy is difficult under those
circumstances.
Both ordinary and preference share-
holders in the Zinc Corporation (N.S.W.) participate
in a distribution of a Is. 6d. dividend ( £67,412),
bringing the total disbursements from the sale of
silver, zinc and lead produced last year to £183,963.
Dividends credited to 1913 are 7s. to prefs.
( £85,992) and 3s. to ordinaries ( £97,971) equal
to 35 p.c. on pref. and 15 p.c. on ordinary paid-up
capital (20s. per share). To what extent the slump
in spelter will affect profits for the current year
cannot be told, for the exact return on zinc concen-
trates isn’t known for six months or more from the
time they are shipped; but this concern publishes
a monthly return showing' revenue, expenditure andl
estimated profits with metals taken at conservative
prices.
The Grafton Copper (N.S.W.) appears to
be confining its attention to the eastern side of the
leases and the long-neglected Melbourne section, some
nice patches of ore having been struck. Nothing is;
being done, however, toward proving the continua-
tion of the ore body downward below “A” level on
the western side. This latter being the deepest por-
tion worked by the co., its. existence or otherwise at
a depth should be a point of extreme interest.
Sufficient ore is being obtained to keep one of the'
four furnaces in commission, a very small perform-
ance in comparison with past records.
Bourke’s Hill Tin Sluicing (Emmaville,.
N.S.W.), will, like many similar propositions, feel',
keenly the severe drop in the price of the metal.
Latest returns show a marked falling off in output,,
the reason assigned being the increased blasting re-
quired for the harder ground encountered during the 1
period. The probability of an improvement in this,
direction being remote, the combination of circum-
stances point to reduced profits.
* * * *
That aristocratic being, the Adelong Gold'
Estates, looks particularly anaemic just now, but
anxious inquirers can get no satisfaction. When;
J. S Henry departed from the scene to build dredges:
for the Austral-Malay the presumption was that a
betterment was to take place, but the clay has been:
just as sticky to the new man as to the old, and'
the yields very little different. Apparently too much
was promised when Henry moved out, and as there-
is a blister of £12,000 of debentures on the lease:
the trouble with the clay brings worries all round.
Meanwhile, Davies at the one end of the property
and the Adelong Dredging at the other make headway..
* * * *
The Melbourne papers are giving Jack
Nortbey as bad a time over the Lode Hill clean up l
as they gave brother Paul over the Briseis Extended.
The trouble is that Jack Northey shovelled only 15-
tons 2cwt. out of the boxes while he had cleaned up-
21i tons from a much shorter first run. Then-
-40,000 cub. yards averaged ljlb., whereas now
30,000 cub. yards go lib. This doesn’t seem a big
difference, but Cain has been raised by people who-
got in at boom prices. Of course, Northey, being a
mining man, was entitled to regard an average yield 1
as satisfactory, and to telegraph so, but the time-
taken to stream the tin and the costs factor are-
what he is up against. It will take a lot to wipe out
the belief that someone down south had a shrewd'
idea that there would be a smaller return than the-
first clean up. It’s just to clear this point that
manager Northey will have to remove any ideas that
on the mine is someone who knows what’s what:
just as well as the manager does.
* * * *
Tin-dredging in the Stanthorpe (Queens-
land) district is making some headway. The modus'
operandi is the suction dredge without the barge.
A plant consists, as a rule, of two 20-h.p. portables:
driving two lOin. centrifugal pumps, one supplying
water under pressure to the breaking-down nozzles
and the other pumping the tin-bearing sludge-
over the sluice-box. Such an outfit treats:
30 to 40 cubic yards per hour, and cost about £2OOO-
- install. It is being realised that it doesn’t re-
quire a big yardage to pay for this small capital
outlay, and make a few thousand pounds profit. The-
shifting of the plant costs about £5O, and as each-,
remove accounts for at least 10,000 cubic yards, the-
cost thereof is not more than Id. per yard, making
the total treatment cost 4d. to sd. Half a million;
yards of pound ground on these figures leaves a.
nice profit. At present, there are a dozen plants;
at work, and more in contemplation.
* * * *
Hampden Cloncurry is recovering slightly
under 10 p.c. copper—s27B tons of ore gave 524 tons:
of metal. The 463 tons of customs ore smelted dur-
ing the month averaged 12.3 p.c., the caleite fluxes;
1 p.c., and the ore from the co.’s own mines 9J p.c.
Fluxes that carry 1 p.c. copper to the ton are a big
help, although in this case the cost of mining and
transport must be fairly high. This concern carries:
350,000 shares and a debenture debt. Assuming it
can produce 7000 tons of copper a year it requires:
a clear profit of £lO per ton to pay £70,000, or 4s.
per share.
* * * *
Mills’ United (Charters Towers) closed'
its half-year on April 14 with a credit balance of'
£lO,OBl. There is also £3372, due from the Bur-
dekin mill account, bringing the total to £13,453.
This weakening is due to the payment of a dividend!
of Is. per share ( £l5 000) during last half-year.
Mills’ United hasn’t been successful in its recent pros-
pecting operations, but the luck may change. Tribu-
tors’ crushings will be a new feature in the returns..
The last crushing was 106 tons for £393.
Mungana (N.Q.) is sinking its Giroflia.
main shaft another lift below 710 ft. From that level
contour drives proved something like 40,000 tons of'
sulphide ore, so there is sufficient inducement to sink
the shaft another lift. In this mine lead seems to-
preponderate over copper in the deepest levels. At
the Lady Jane mine the rise of the water in the shaft
is very slow, and nothing but a supply from the
neighboring creek will flood the mine sufficiently to
put the fire out. The ore is heavily charged with
sulphur, so the conflagration has a good hold.
The old Queensland Exploration Co.’s
freehold property at Cloncurry, which includes the
Great Australian copper mine, was knocked down at
auction for £21,000, and the Lady leases for £7OOO.
The Great Australian mine will now be under the
management of the Mount Elliott board.
Word comes that a £50,000 co. has been
formed to work Mount Amos (Q.) properties. A
party of tributors has done very well on the
Phoenician during the past two years, and their re-
turns probably had a good deal to do with the
success of the float. A Cooktown syndicate has
erected a five-head battery to treat a big low-grade
proposition lower down the mountain.
* * * *
Cundy, of Victoria, and Fawcett, of N. S.
Wales and the rest of the world, called in to advise
the Government what to do about the Tasmania, give
cold comfort in return for their fee. It was some-
thing like a goldmine in the upper levels; but the
deeper it got the heavier was the water, and the
cost of keeping the mire dry ate up all the dimin-
ishing gold. The old co. paid £772,000 in divs. ;
J. Bull bought it in 1903, and has never got a bean
from it. “Not absolutely hopeless,” is Cundy and
Fawcett’s report in effect; but they wouldn’t advise
anybody to spend £30,000 or more in putting the
shaft down another 100 ft. and opening up the mine
there. The co. is dead-tired of it and the Govern-
ment can hardly do anything in the face of this
report; so the old mine, which started to astonish
the natives in the late ’7o’s, will probably be handed
over to tributors.
* * * #
Mount Bisclioff (Tas.) reports 75 tons
of tin oxide for April, which, coming with a drop
in the price of tin to £l5O per ton, makes the out-
look less bright. The average yield is from 101 b.
to 111 b. of black tin per ton of ore, so the mine has
to raise 20,000 tons a month to produce 100 tons
of tin concentrates. This proportion would be
unprofitable with high costs, but Bischoff can mine
and crush its low-grade stuff for less than ss. per
ton, which makes the concentrate cost £5O.
* * * *
Greenfinch (W.A.) has taken another
dive into the speculative whirlpool and acquired an
■option on the old Haddon Consolidated at Southern
Cross. This show has had a varied career. About
18 years ago it was worked as the Golden Pig by
an English co., with a nominal capital of £250,000.
Having plenty of money to burn, the co. decided to
overcome the water difficulty by railing the ore to
Seabrook, some 180 miles nearer the coast, and
erected an 80-head battery and cyanide plant to
extract the gold. The grade, however, was too low
to cover the cost of railage and treatment costs, and
after a few parcels had been put through, the co.
went bung. Eight years later a local syndicate tried,
■and failed, to make a do of things, and the pro-
perty was left alone until 1911, when a couple of
prospectors came along and located a new reef.
From this over 1000 tons have been raised and treated
for an average, including cyanide returns, of loz.
per ton. There are a few thousands of tons of ore
in sight which should yield a fair profit, but below
water level the mine, so far as The Bulletin can
learn, isn’t \yorth two bob. If, therefore, a market
Tise is engineered in Greenfinch shares on the
strength of crushings or reports, the public would
■do well to stand clear.
* * * *
Insurance against miners’ complaints is
now being considered by the Kalgoorlie Chamber of
Mines and the Workers’ Union. A combined deputa-
tion recently waited upon the Government with a
request for assistance, and was told that the Govern-
ment subsidy previously offered would be increased
from £5OOO to £7500. Government also intimated
that it was thinking over a land-settlement scheme,
to be run in conjunction with the fund that is pro-
posed to be raised conjointly by the State, mine- -
■owners and miners.
***•*•
Associated (W.A.) has bucked up a bit
■as a result of the discovery of 4oz. telluride ore just
■across the boundary in the adjoining North Boulder
Block. The shoot is dipping into Associated ground
between the Nos. 3 and 4 levels, and if it lives down-
ward 50ft. it must pass into that property. A cross-
cut is now being extended to settle the point. Real-
ising the futility of sinking any deeper in search of
payable ore, the management has for some time past
been devoting considerable attention to the top
levels and the opening up of a large quantity ,of fair
:grade ore has been the result.
* * * *
Chaffer’s (W.A.) is busy fixing its new
£26,000 ore treater in position, and hopes to get
■it going by the end of August. About 7000 tons is
■expected to be handled monthly, but as yet the
■grade does not appear to have been fixed. Total
■costs, with allowance for loss in residues, are esti-
mated at about 255. 6d., and as the average recover-
able value of the ore in the mine cannot be much
■over 305., the co. will be lucky if it earns sufficient
to pay a small yearly dividend, and if only one of
the many unexpecteds that happen in mining occur
it may find itself in the unfortunate position of
■being incapable of even doing that.
Great Fingall (W.A.) has been having
■some trouble with the walls of its deep level stopes,
■and has stopped ore-breaking for a few weeks in
■order to do some timbering and filling.
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) has started to
■drive at No. 20 level, but estimates that it has 200 ft.
; to go before reaching values. At No. 19 level the
■shoot, including a few short breaks, is 1100 ft. long,
■and worth about 375. per ton. A winze recently
■started at 680 ft. south is going down in good ore.
There are tricks in every trade. Recently
The Kalgoorlie and Boulder Miners’ Union announced
That its members weren’t going to work with non-'
unionists after May 1. This drew a retort from the
Chamber of Mines that rather than get rid of non-
unionists to please unionists the mine-owners would
■shut down altogether. It now transpires that the
union’s threat was only a move to get more mem-
bers. So far. it has succeeded in enrolling a few
hundred, and is still adding to the list.
* * * *
The old, old story. In November last
Hurbanks Main Lode (W.A.) lulled the suspicions
■of uneasy shareholders by an official report express-
ing confidence at the prospect of meeting with “fur-
ther extensive lenses of ore,” and the hope to
present a “highly satisfactory report at the end of
the financial year.” A more cheerful feeling was
■also imparted by the Board’s statement that “the
continuance of the present improved outlook, and the
fact that the mine is now equipped with machinery
■of a thoroughly up-to-date nature gives reassuring
prospects of an early resumption of returns to
shareholders.” Now, only a few months later, comes
•an official circular blighting these hopes. It reads-
“In consequence of the persistent falling off in the-
width of reefs and the value of the .ore in the stopes-
the monthly yield has proved insufficient to carry
the cost of the necessary development work. The'
Board has, therefore, decided to temporarily cease
operations.” Arrangements have since been tjffide irt
the West for financial assistance to keep the mine-
unwatered, and, as the Financial Times cuttingly re-
marks. a call upon shareholders’ pockets, instead of
their being replenished with a dividend, appears.to
be the probable early sequel to the official predic-
tions at the time of the annual report.


Sleerings
Est. 1818.
Cop
en
en
tl $ll
meeriwg
fIIERRYBRIMi
Sir Alex. Peacock’s laugh reappeared at
Lauder’s Melbourne farewell. ’Tis a good
laugh, and you can alw&ys be on the laugh-
ing side of business and other sports by oc-
casional consultations with the cheerful
spirit of King George IV. topnotch whisky.*
COGNAC
OTA R D
Otard-Dupuy & Co. BRANDY
Etablis depuis 1795, dans chateau de Cognac
oil est ne le roi FRANCOIS Pi de France.
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, May 11, 1914.
iMr Dear Arini, —
Guiilaux flew over the Government House
party late in the afternoon. This
made an exciting interlude and diverted the
/attention of Society and others from the
frocks of their best-hated friends. The hydro-
aeroplane which swooped over everybody’s
tlfedsft feat on this occasion is a large, amphibi-
i-dus/ifttfrifthbeast. It is a sort of sky whale. It
Uooks more boat-footed than web-toed, and is
:a small terrace of houses compared to the
:slim, neat-waisted monoplane. I suppose it
isucks up water with its boat-shaped feet,
.•and stows it away like a camel in some in-
ferior tank for dry weather.
Governor Strickland and Lady Edeline
llaid in wait for their innumerable visitors on
ithe sheltered lawn, where Miss Rawson’s
white pigeons used to softly peck the hand
(that fed them at tea-time. The long, thin,
Hniman stream, a Noah’s Ark procession
which has descended from the Flood to the
maodern garden party, moved forward at a
smail’s-pace. It wore the self-conscious ex-
pression inevitable to a gathering in which
a gaping throng is huddled together to censor
/he clothes of its acquaintances.
The tall figure of Papua’s Lieut.-Governor
towered above minor atoms. Papua
is a i. ''Oimtainous country, and it requires a
tall Go\ si'nor to keep an eye on things. The
C. Justice' Cullens stepped into the place of
importance the sub-royal court, where a
blue-robed b; 'djeuard of Strickland Light In-
fantry surrouL wl the throne or garden chairs
of State. His Anglican Legs of Sydney
(Archbishop Wi Vfet) had a reception to
himself, and made a special official entry
through the hall. This landed him at his
Ex.’s coat-tails, wher “ he was pounced on
by General Finn, and led to the vice-regal
hand. Large, fat ladi a -S in the procession
who were addicted to t.he almost obsolete
knee-bob or curtsey got so hurried that they
broke into a kind of tango £tep, and came
near falling over the feet of the Strickland
ladyship. This queer salaam, ft poor rela-
tion of the Court curtsey, is one of the recent
fooleries in the presence of a State Governor
and his wife. It became a ludic'WW# habit
or jump in the Chelmsfords’ reign.
The party brought all the new" sea-
son’s goods out of their moth-balls, where
they’ve been in hiding till the belated winter
puts in an appearance. Mrs. Tom Watson
wore one of the Burgundy-tinted gowns which
are It —so it creased up in front in the truly
latest mode. Mrs. Spencer Brunton chal-
lenged competition in a complicated French
garment that was black silk or something
in its sleeveless jacket, and velvet half an
inch thick in its skirt. The tall, good-look-
ing George Fuller trio —Papa, Mamma and
daughter Gladys—were fine landmarks, not
only by reason of their height, but because
of the imposing gear or top-dressing on the
head of the juvenile member of the party.
This was a blue turban toque that shot a long
thin frond into the air in front, at an alti-
tude of about half a yard above hair-level.
A gasp of respectful admiration followed this
daring skyscraper, till it vanished in the
crowd. Mrs. Trefld, tailored in a blue suit
that fitted like wallpaper, was shepherding—
or shepherdessing—a nice-looking Temora
girl, Miss McCrone. And amongst those pre-
sent were many pale-lavender complexions
and white-washed Society faces with lips
the shade of a ripe pomegranate—guaranteed
not to run in cool weather.
Captain Wallis, the new Help, is a mild-
Tooking young man, with a neat moustache
and a decided waist. This was firmly tied
up the other afternoon in its best party or
full-dress red sash. Just now the recent im-
portation wears the worried expression of
being so brand-new that he’s afraid to
approach even that elderly topic, the weather,
without taking expert advice.
Mr. d’Apice, of the old Italian family that
; settled at Hunter’s Hill in the long ago, has
developed into a useful hon. Help, who rushes
. to the aid of sub-royalty in times of social
• stress. He is something tremendous in the
militia besides. His small but gorgeous per-
■ son, hung with ropes of gold, was one of the
i most extensive upholstered apparitions at
1 Friday’s garden party.
The Antill Pockleys have taken a house in
' the vicinity of Woollahra Point, an elegant
; suburb where those who don’t own a car
t themselves can at least cultivate the correct
i motor manner. Daughter Phyllis, who left
f for England and matrimony the other day,
1 has a creaih-and-roses complexion which the
] British maiden will find hard to beat. An
rex-Flag-Lieutenant (who ought to have had
1 his eyes fixed on his hymn book) once said
Ithat, at a Town Hall prayer meeting to
which he went with the Admirable King-Hall,
tthere was only one complexion in sight that
eould stand the hideous glare of light from
the municipal orbs of electricity. The owner
of it was Miss Pockley. The young man who
is going to claim this pretty Australian is
Mr. Danby, R.N., who used to 100-tenant out
here—l think on the Powerful.
Miss Armstrong, a sister of the Speaker
Armstrong who says “Order” in Brisbane’s
legislative halls, is lingering hereabouts and
gadding gaily round amongst troops of Syd-
ney acquaintances.
Last Saturday’s inter-State tennis match
between Victoria and N.S.W. provided various
of the upper seven or eight with a very good
excuse for appearing in the very latest. But
the gown that flaps and bulges in the wind,
the large check skirt that - carries no duty
stamp, and the blouse-sleeve that begins at
the waist and ends nowhere in particular all
faded away when the new half-way veil
happened along. When the crowd wasn’t
being delighted at the way the genial Alf
Jones was ill-treating Heath, of Vic., it
derived much amusement from the Mrs.
Ford-Miss Stewart match. These two
were at it for 2$ hours, and two more weary
and untidy females I’ve never seen. Then,
as if that wasn’t enough, they both played
in the doubles immediately after. How-
ever, if this isn’t trespassing on the sporting
page, the N.S.W. gentleman players treated
their visitors scandalously and sent them
home with almost as bad a beating as it was
possible to give them. The ladies were more
polite, and allowed the Victorians to go back
with a win, but it was a microscopic one.
Pianist Leonard Borwick has again put
his feet on Australian soil, and will presently
place both his sinewy expert hands on the
keys of the concert grand in Melbourne.
Borwick’s last visit to this part of the globe
was also his first. By some unknown streak
of bad luck it wasn’t the financial success it
ought to have been. This time he ought to
capture large audiences. Anyone with an
ear drum in good working order should rush
the Borwick recitals.
Ella Caspers has returned to her native
land with a really fine contralto, which bears
out the predictions of the enthusiasts who
industriously scraped together the funds for
the lady’s musical education. She sings
very well indeed, but misses the grip on her
audience that comes with the warmer tem-
perament of Kirkby Lunn or Ada Crossley.
The melancholy Italian tenor, Martinelli,
who is included in the Caspers tour, is by
no means the most uninteresting singer we
have heard in the Town Hall. Pianist John
Carlton Fay made agreeable interludes in the
Sydney concerts.
Violinist Raimund Pechotscli, heard again
after nine years absence, has brought home
the well-fed outline of a healthy alderman.
He-fiddles in the highly-respectable manner
that befits his comfortable circumference,
and knocked so many spots out of the Musin
Mazurka the other evening, that it went off
“bang” like a fusillade of penny crackers.
Organist Lilian Frost lent her aid to the
recent Caspers concerts in this town, to loud
and vociferous applause.
Agnes Caspers, younger sister of the con-
falto, is a budding composer. Two ditties
in the lighter ballad style, and a more impos-
ing effort, “Morn,” hint that the Australian
girl is going to make a splash in the musical
pond.
The young and rather inexperienced mana-
ger Philip Potts, who is steering Ella Caspers
through her present tour, has a good deal to
learn about his billet. For instance, when
he makes appointments with the press he
should see that his minor star either keeps or
cancels them. Even the humble press, which
is used as a doormat by the present-day
platform performer, objects to cool its in-
dividual heels in draughty hotel corridors,
while Miss Caspers—who now takes an out-
size in hats —sweeps haughtily past and
ignores her appointment. Also, manager
Potts ought to cut down the programme so
that it doesn’t drag its weary length across
the night. Practically every concert in Syd-
ney is at the mercy of gangs of schoolgirls,
who furiously encore every item. There is
nothing flattering about this clamorous de-
mand for more, as it is absolutely inevitable.
On Thursday night and Saturday afternoon
the Goulburn contralto finally sang to an
audience which was stamping out of the hall
to catch its trains and trams and yawning
with the interminable weariness of senseless
encores for every item.
The twin Wade girleens, daughters of C.
G. Wade, M.L.A., are taking to the light,
fantastic toe —in an amateur way—with con-
siderable alacrity. They hop round the
Imperial Salon twice or thrice a week, in a
most nimble and feathersome style. On May
28 they are going to hostess a party of about
100 souls and 200 feet in that decorative
haunt of the Very Best.
The National Council of Women sat in
great majesty at Government House the
other day, with the Strickland ladyship in
the chair. It is worth a line to note that
whatever may come in the next thousand
years or so of the Nat. Council’s desire to
reform the world, just now it isn’t doing any-
thing very glaring on this side of the earth.
On the other end of the cables it is quarrel-
ling in its best hat, at the International Con-
gress in Rome. The lady who produced a
tome called, “Genesis of the International
Council of Women,” apparently intended to
speed the exodus of Lady Aberdeen. The
latter is known as a practical philanthropist
who has nothing to gain by the cheap ad-
vertisement of having been president of the
overseas council for 20 years. But the
only tangible result one can see in oceans
of chatter, is the unswerving desire of half
the National Council to beat the other half
with its stoutest umbrella.
The veteran charmer, Ellen Terry, is to
have a special reception here by the pro-
fession. If her once melodious speaking
voice retains its former sweetness, her lec-
tures should be easily overheard in the
most remote crevices of the Town Hall. It
used to have a bell-like modulation that
“carried” without any apparent effort, for
Ellen belongs to the old school of actors
which sedulously practised elocution.
Mrs. Bertie Sheldon, a niece of the very
handsome Julius Caro dame, left Sydney in
the Orvieto for the Thames village. A good
engagement in the Margaret Cooper line of
business lures her to that vast antheap.
Artist Tliea Proctor’s beautiful decorative
work —mostly fan designs—is attracting that
eminently useful person, the Buyer. The
Buyer may be thick and plain and ordinary
and sordid. But he has his uses. The
show, which still hangs on the walls
of Anthony Horderns’ attractive little
gallery, is worth taking more than two
trams to find before it is packed up for
flight. Some of it—a big percentage—will
stay in Sydney, for a promising epidemic in
little red blobs is scattered over the collec-
tion. There is a reminisicence of Manly in
the fanciful treatment of some betowelled
figures, “The Bathers,” with the seabreeze
blowing through their garments. But it is
the Dancer, with her strong right leg and
her athletic left limb that has the kicking
power of an ostrich, poised in action, which
artist Thea depicts with such virile life.
The “Souvenir of Genee as La Carmargo,” is
amongst the sold, and the owner is likely
to be envied with enthusiasm.
Mrs. Reg L. Baker is on board the Otway,
now off the Australian coast. She is hurry-
ing home to see her little girl, who very
nearly flickered out with appendicitis during
her parents’ absence on the great wallaby
in foreign parts.
The council of the Royal Colonial Insti-
tute, which has its headquarters in London,
recently elected a number of Australian
Fellows. What a Fellow of the Institute
(who can be of either sex) actually does to
blaze the Commonwealth trail is not known
to those outside the sacred circle. But the
names of Master in Equity, H. I*. Owen,
several members of the Minter family (Syd-
ney), Major Wilkinson (Perth), and mer-
chant John Myers (M.L.) are mentioned as
now wearing a fellowship of this august as-
sembly. Some day I hope to attain the dignity
of fellowess myself.
Dr. and Mrs. Ashburton Thompson are
back again after a year or so on the other
side. He is the ex-medical officer of this
port, who got such a firm grip of the first
big edition of the plague, that it has been
successfully pushed out of town and chased
back to its old haunts in Asia.
The Olympic Ball on May 20 ought to be
a lively event, as the “sports” sets will be a
tremendous draw for the galleryites. The
Town Hall, which stands in its usual place,
expects your presence and superfluous cash
on that evening. Hon. secs. Mrs. Arthur
Deery and Miss May Melliday and hon.
treds. Mrs. Vincent McCauley are in the
forefront of this dash towards the Olympic
funds.
Sir Hartmann Just, who was persistently
stalked by lion-hunters at the Stricklands’
garden-party, is a very mild-looking prey.
He is a smallish, weary-looking Under-Sec.
of State for the “Cawlinies,” with an abbre-
viated appearance of retiring under the brim
of his top hat when the public gaze is glued
on to his unassuming person.
While Rupert Clarke was packing his
toothbrush and a drop of medical comfort
for the expedition in the Fly River country
of Papua, his decorative lady went to
Medlow and took the air in a funeral-coach
motor-car under the escort of a Pomeranian
poodle. Medlow—the Foy-Smith part of it
—is, by the way, to be semi-shut for several
winter months while something extra in
renovations is made.
The British Australasian records the
fuss that persons learned in wood-carving are
making over Svdney’s Ruth Bannister, now
in London. The late Sir Hubert von Her-
komer said that there is nothing Miss Ban-
nister could not do, so far as wood and tools
are concerned. (What a pity such a gener-
ous critic should have to be invoiced as “the
late,” by the, way!_) The Sydney girl owes
her first push forward to the discriminating
eye of Lady Denman, which saw a streak
of genius in Ruth’s wood-sculpture. Her Ex.
pounced on the young sculptress, and for-
warded her on to England to chisel Aus-
tralian fruit and flowers on her British
chimney-pieces. Something that looks like a
career (in consequence) is threatening in the
Thames city.
The long and picturesque personality of
Hugh McCrae —writer and artist —will
shortly be removed from this city. The mov-
ing will be done by a steamer bound for
London, which leaves this port on May 23.
McCrae, who is addicted to handsome millin-
ery of the Spanish sombrero species, is not
going to Mexico to lend his pen to the thump-
ing of Huerta. He’s bound for ’Frisco and
Noo Yark via Tilbury Docks, to place his
literary and artistic wares on the U.S.
market. A stack of friends in this town
wish tall Hugh the best of luck.
Black-and-white check in any sized pat-
tern from the pepper-and-white fleck to the
large draught-board square is becoming a
wide-spread epidemic. Mrs. R. D. Hall wore
one of the tailored checks of moderate dimen-
sions the other day, and looked very well in
the now übiquitous garb. Even the most
daring Rag Prophet, however, didn’t foresee
the frenzied popularity of this harmless pat-
tern. Caps, trousers, waistcoats, even bags,
are now taking on the garb that used to be
called shepherd’s plaid. If Harry Lauder
will only wear a kilt of the black-and-white
family we shall all be happy. Skipper Cum-
berlege, of the Warrego—a naval dandy who
is “frightfully rushed, don’t you know,” by
local Society—used to dazzle Maltese belles
in a suit of this design, but lie has tamed
down to more sad-colored earb these days.
According to “Snowy” Baker, who writes
from Paris, the big boxing contest between
Adonis Carpentier and the mulatto Jeannette
looked like a first-night at the Opera House,
Frenchwomen dressed in the last scream of
fashion (scream is the only word fof the
1914 styles) and glittering with gems made
up a big percentage of the audience at the
ringside.
Percy Grainger has written what he is
pleased to call a “Colonial Song”—presu-
mably a representation of “Colonial” yearn-
ings and a struggle to voice the deeper feel-
ings of Dungog and the soul-wail of Kangaroo
Island. As the golden-haired pianist is a
South Australian himself, it is curious that
he should have forgotten that the Australian
doesn’t glory in the old, contemptuous term
of “colonial.” And even in the bad old days
S. Australia was never a “colony.” Its official
designation, from its first beginning till the
day when it became a State, was “province.”
In that matter it stood alone. However, the
latest effort of this person who doesn’t even
know that “colonial” is out of date is a com-
position for an orchestra and two voices, and
it ought to be harmonious. Percy Grainger
docs understand the art of constructing pleas-
ing noises. He explains the germ of his
song thus : “I tried to voice my personal feel-
ings about my own country and people, and
a certain kind of emotion that seems to me
not untypical of native-born colonials in
general.” This is rather high-falutin’. A
“colonial” must be native-born unless he just
sprang up like Topsy and wasn’t born any-
where at all. Everybody is a native of the
country he was born in unless he was born,
somewhere else, and nobody ever is.
Canberra is getting into print as a place
that contains a Commonwealth Public Ser-
vice all to itself. A Mr. Maurice Hyde, now
in London, is alluded to by an overseas’ jour-
nal as having been a recent member of the
service in Canberra. There is no visible
join between the bush village and Esperanto,
but I understand that Mr. Hyde found the
latter polyglot tongue a great help during
his travels on the continent.
Journalist George C. Craig, who is re-
ported to be still busy with his pen at the
age of 72, was recently interviewed in Lon-
don. He has behind him a strenuous 47
years of the inky way in Australia, mostly
divided between N.S.W. and Queensland.
PI is present proposition is to settle down in
smoky Glasgow (his crowded native hamlet)
barring a sudden desire to flee back to the
land of sunshine and great spaces.
The Delmar Cavendish-Smith wedding
occurred in London on March 30. The bride
is the well-dowered Ruth Smith, who hailed
from the Glen Innes district of N.S.W.
Delmar Cavendish was the dapper purser
on the Mooltan who was so popular with
the flanper on the high seas.
The harem veil, which is still hanging on
the outskirts of local Society, gives the im-
pression that the lady who is behind it
wears a young beard that sprouts all over
her chin in staccato spots. It looks a good
deal like a blind half-pulled up from below.
Everything (or nearly everything) has some
good point about it. The harem veil is a
godsend to women who have ugly mouths
that snap together like the long thin sides of
a meat-safe.
Kubelik and his dressy wife were recently
snapped walking along Fifth Avenue, New
York. The lady’s clothes, which can he
taken at face value as the ultimate note of
Fashion, . include a white-fcatherd hat of
monstrous tufts arranged in the Choctaw
Indian (not Christian Israelite) style, and
a pair of plain, undisguised white trousers.
A dark winter coat is cut up in front to
show these gentlemanly garments, which are
topdressed by something that looks like a
white tunic to the knees. The United States
alderman has been so agitated about women’s
clothes of late that I suppose he has been
meeting trousered ladies in his walks abroad.
London Daily Mirror recently illustrated
the three stages of the feminine cranium.
First the lady of rueful countenance and
straight, lank locks. Next, the same woman
with her head surrounded by something that
looks like an infernal machine. She is going
through a curl pilgrimage, and her hair is
having its pores opened in a new way by
science and damp flannel twisted round metal
cylinders. A few more things are done to.
bully the lankiness into curls, then the re-
sults are dried by electricity or struck by
lightning or something of the sort. The
third stage shows the lady again. She is
surrounded by a mop of curls, and appears
to have fainted dead away for joy. The
Swiss who thought out this scheme of getting
even with hair that falls as straight as a
shower bath is a most daring and inventive
person. But I don't agree with the London
scribe who calls it “the simplest thing in the
world.”
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


‘CHUNDER”
TAKES A TRIP HOME.
Received at English Works.
jA/*, .... ...
..-•>
r^vt, i .w :.a : y~ ; ,- . .
-.,i-r • r -•• /A^i.
'■-' rt" ~..,'•HS* ;'•
7;AM I
4 <' , f A
// ;„.,.5-:;..:. ?
/i -• -.r.-iW-v'-..-| i "1
// rrr: V~"\Lr
Z* -<v / -r w-"- -
ry
,^4-s
ifX^
i mm
r
■,r<\
mm
• // >-^'
dfyv
53 ■ Sir*
- -. s • '
/ . , n fvft \ _ \-r V
; ;1 [ * 111 V fl \ r: ’
if . I Ji? 5 I 1 p.:r;7\ TOiaL
> \ / (./ |‘ \ ? v wSBBS
■m
■t f .?
47,?
%
/Z
f/j
■<//,
%
////,#/ /iff
' / /# /• ////,
■<.
c /tf/'ip ./ /j'jr /' .•«■ * .v
WWM//W//A/
elf
WT
m
W////M
G*v t
m
.7 < /
(Am///////
urn
Si
i'
//,
r./
.. t
' U
•r* ?
s a
I I
*.. ! >
/ '7 :
/'- / ji
(■ ■:
1 h
t s
4-PMI
. MHM
§
mam*
P If Pl*
rU 11« >4B 5 Sit ,*'<®
S
MU fill
iWrtlUlllll
nmsm
H
I!
1
HWHH
•$? »a
■ /
111
IkrTij'U lV « V
WM7 ?
id**f
■/.m&
1 '.■.,-.
Vh y-i
77/
ra? k
w *
m 1 m
In i’i <’M
~w ~f ifim
i! II II? I SI
n a
■ff
-j-Zf
T’iS. -»•
s a
' Aswlwi
■d^Yt
%
If!,
hi llfafi
ui l]h|
Hr:
6 -if -'a4 s's■•
r- ; ,\ ■ tt-jt-i-'VH'?■s*! sisr.
i* -t •• 8 4+-^'s T'vjtT' le^
*44fflS4iHf TSTi t P
’^;l44-H±J§"A'" ri 14
.fii mm
i fffiiW
{w Ha I
' jys— -v- .jf
I
I If
if 3; #
p/f
(I u.<
f #
-c*/- r-’.' t
Ss
... .■'//■// ■"■"-'/ iTf/
t£fr
%iiK
W)
K/A
;• f
Vt
■soi
M/cm
WA
O . '-> £ <__
vA’
IP?
r^'
Cobra
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
With the bear
Now meets the two
English partners.
Mr. Brown
Welcomes Chunder
To the town;
Mr. Rowe,
With friendly air
Warmly greets
The little bear.
When friends meet,
The worlds all right.
Heres a meeting
“COBRA ’-bright !.;


m
There is no other Hat like
A REAL VELOUR
The exclusive smartness and adaptability of the
Real Velour make it the most popular of all winter
hats.
Farmer’s Real Velours may be had with bow
either at side or back, brims 2$ inches wide, in the
following colors: Brown, Slate, Mole, Grey, Green,
Navy and Black.
PRICES:
21/=, 25/=, 30/=, 35/=, to 42/=
Cheaper quality in Black only, 18/6.
FARMER’S PAY CARRIAGE.
FARMER’S, Sydney
PITT, MARKET AND GEORGE STREETS.
“A Journalist and Two Bears.” A collection of
the tales and verse of James Edmond, reprinted
from The Bulletin and The Lone Hand. Price
One Shilling, from all booksellers, or 13 pence direct
from the publishers, The Platypus Prese, 117 Bath-
urst Street, Sydney.*
V 4
U ml v*±
0
The Cost
per Mile
for running your
Car, Motor Cycle
or Cycle is less
when you use....
DUNLOP
TYRES
It’s the high quality of
rubber and fabric used
(and plenty of it) com-
bined with scientific
and thorough work-
manship that ensures
“ Dunlop ” users the
extra satisfaction that
makes them permanent
supporters of “Dunlop”
quality. That’s our
aim—to gain customers
and keep them .
Always specify Dunlop Tyres, it’s
the cheapest in the long run.
ALL AGENTS. GARAGES, &c.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
All States
and N.Z.
m
m
m
mm
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, May 11, 1914.
My I)eab Yarrie, —
The Repertory Ball started with a crash
of music, at 9 o’clock last Wednesday night,
and rolled along until 2 o’clock next morning,
when the last lingering revellers were blown
down the stone steps with a charge of
Anthem. The balcony gazers were enter-
tained by a procession and tableaux, with
interludes for the arrival of the reigning
stars. The tableaux were generally effective ;
but when the component parts got loose on
the dancing space, the right-thinkers present
breathed hard through their noses, pulled
down their mouths at the corners, and gave
other signs that they were Shocked to the
Marrow. Clarence Weber, as Herakles, in
the Greek group, was mostly leopard skin and
beautiful pink muscles. Aubrey Hoad, as
Joseph, inhabited the short white garment of
a blameless life and had his bare toes well
trodden on, until, in sheer agony, he Up-
ended himself and walked out on his hands,
meanwhile frowning terribly with his feet.
(No! that’s what he would have done had he
been a comedy acrobat. The gruesome fact
is that he had to stand and bear it.) Then the
Wagnerian gods ! Well, really, Yarrie, if it
hadn’t been a charity occasion I would have
launched myself from the balcony and at-
tended to them personally with my umbrella.
Tenor Kirby came along in his bath-robe and
a full set of whiskers. The full set looked
like Ned Kelly, but a silver cross proclaimed
him Lohengrin—a five-feet something Lohen-
grin. The Governor-General and the State
Ex. attempted no disguise—which was just
as well. The part of Henry VIII., which
was thought to be the G.-G.’s disguise, was
filled by Colin Templeton. Lady Denman, as
Queen Katherine, was magnificently clothed
in green and gold brocade over a red petti-
coat, with a stomacher of gems and a gold
inesh veil held out by a wide lace collar. A
diamond tiara twinkled overhead, and gems
gleamed here and there about her splendid
duds. Lady Stanley chose the part of one of
Henry’s most respectable wives—or was it a
sister she impersonated? (I must get out of
the habit of using pages of my dog’s-eared
history book as curlpapers!) Anyhow, the
black velvet dress had bold lines of fat white
pearls and fine sketch lines of seed pearls,
while a fine white veil floated over her
starched collar. The under-garment was of
terra-cotta and gold. Help Wilson was a
gorgeous Earl of Surrey, and Curwen looked
as if he had purloined some girl’s fox furs.
It clashed somewhat with his announced role
of “nobleman.” Help Pollok, in everyday
rig, attended* his chief with Victor Hood.
Gregan McMahon was Shakspeare or Hall
Caine or somebody. Mrs. McMahon wasn’t
even herself. She had tired herself out ar-
ranging the show and looked pale.
The beauty girl, Purchas (she is a cousin of
Melba, my dear —you remember that, of
course!) made a magnificent Zuleika, dressed
in tawny clothes and jewels. She was carried
round the room by four bronze suburban
slaves, with a canopy of chiffon over her
head so that the gallery folk could see her,
and if she didn’t look sufficiently cold and
proud to suit the must bitter critic, it wasn’t
her fault. If Pharaoh himself had called round
for a bit of supper she would have told him
to go out to the kitchen and fossick out the
cold meat for himself. Little “Bundles”
Lincoln (son of the late actor of that name)
was Benjamin. Young Eddy, dressed in
bronze paint and some purple chiffon, helped
to carry Zuleika. Mrs. Hilliard (Cleopatra)
was also to have been carried; but something
happened to the tickets of her four brawny
carriers and those young men were abashed
by the remarks addressed to them by a door-
keeper and went away home to wash; so
Cleopatra walked, which was much better
for her. The competition for good-looking
men was something horrible. Men were
stolen at the eleventh hour and screams of
“He’s mine! He’s mine!” were heard in all
direction. Tonithjr Cochran, who wears side-
boards and has a perfect genius for clothes,
disguised himself as Svengali and put some
black face-fungus on his chin. Farmer
Oswald Syme was a beautiful sight in a
purple coat as one of the Quality-street Set.
Dr. Syme was a farmer in a smock, and his
wife wore one of the broadest crinolines I
have ever seen. Mrs. Geoffrey Syme put in
a brief appearance in her “Kismet” dress;
but she is still on the sick-list and a nurse
was handy amongst the onlookers waiting
to take her home. She and her husband are
shortly to take a trip to Colombo. Mrs.
Willie Newbisrin was one of the reception
committee. She filled the bill (and part of
the doorway) in blue brocade. Muriel Starr
came along as she had on the stage
when she was Madame X. She resurrected
cheerfully as a tango butterfly with tulle
“poufings” on side panniers clamped by ropes
of theatrical pearls. The jewel-chain gave
way in the middle of a dance and she had
to be hurriedly pinned together.
The tableaux at the Repertory Ball were
managed by Eric Maxon, of the Royal, Reg
Carey, of Her Majesty’s, and Gregan
McMahon. At midnight the whole enter-
tainment was held up for the Ellen Terry
welcome by the theatre people. Ellen looked
dreamy and pale. Her hair was bound with
rose-velvet ribbons and diamonds, and she
wore an ivory brocade that could have stood
alone. She replied to Bert Bailey’s address
in a few words, spoken in a deep, rich voice.
And then the gyrations were resumed, while
the star sat on the dais with the vice-regal
group and chatted briskly with friends who
converged on her from all directions. The
theatrical folk swarmed in after the shows
closed up. The management of Her Majesty’s
allowed the Persian ballet girls to attend in
their stage costumes. Ada Reeve led a set
of her own. Daisy Jerome lost a leopard-
skin coat during the evening. All the furriers
in town seemed to have hired out their skins,
so it must have been comparatively easy to
smuggle the precious thing away. Daisy’s
mother was last seen in consultation with
the lady of the cloakroom. That severe and
important official smiled grimly at the tur-
moil, for she is used to such scenes. It is
i surprising how many people lose valuable
property while they are dancing in allegedly
good society. Sometimes one might as well
have been with Chinese pirates.
The Gaud Mayoress arrived, all spread-
ing brocade and lace collar, as the
Empress Josephine. She was so splen-
did and made such a fine entrance
that I had to hurry out and run
three times round the block to work off my
excitement. Jenny Brenan disguised herself
in a powdered wig as Lady Teazle. She and
the Misses Hyams looked on approvingly at
the sets they had been drilling. Docie Sharp,
a Toorak girl of fine physique, paraded an
“As You Like It” set, for which she had made
the dresses. She herself was a strapping
Rosalind. Mrs. Glenloth Peter (her Celia)
wears that name in real life. A brace (or
should it be a covey?) of good-looking men
completed the group. Maggie Stirling made
an imposing Rrunhilde in the weighty Wag-
ner gang. Black-eyed McCubbin youngsters
acted as heralds and blew trumpets whenever
anything was going to happen. Someone
with a "useless megaphone then barked at
the crowd and clouded the issue. One partic-
ular two-step tune was encored seven times
till the conductor laid down his fiddle-bow
and thereby intimated that he would rather cut
up his violin for kindling-wood than saw it
off again. The financial result —which should
be handsome —won’t be known for a week or
so. Repertorians say that “it is not so much
the money as the advertisement.” Philis-
tines who never knew of the existence of a
Repertory Theatre are now enlightened.
But, with a ball as an introduction, their
impression probably is that it is a new kind
of vaudeville shop.
If you happen to be in St. Kilda, my dear,
on the night of June 2, you will discover
the O’Donnell ball in progress. (St. Kilda is
the O’Donnell’s mayor’s nest.)
Lady Denman last week gave a theatre
and supper party to the hard-working com-
mittee of the successful Loan Exhibition, by
way of recognising its exertions.
The Austral Salonites (God bless them!)
had doubly bad luck with their Ellen Terry
excitements. On the morning of the boat’s
arrival they rose early, put on their most
staggering duds and hats, and proceeded in
state, armed with bouquets, to gritty, lump-
erish Port Melbourne—the very last place
on earth for any well-dressed female to be
abroad in on a working morning. Arrived
there, they waited patiently on a foggy, chilly
pier till Ellen Terry sent word that she could
not possibly rise for another hour, and after
that would require a dressing interval.
Shakspearian fiends and all sorts of literary
bodies and carcases were also sitting on gang-
ways, and old, weatherbeaten boxes with
other bouquets and speeches ; so the wearied
Salonites gave it best, and arranged a cosy
indoor welcome for the next day. It was a
party-concert or concert-party at the rooms,
and the club colors twined affectionately
newer and fresher bouquets; but, alas, all
they got was manager Blascheck and a doc-
tor’s letter to the effect that it was physically
impossible for his distinguished patient to
attend welcoming parties and keep her public
engagements as well. She had been so ill-
used by the motion of the ocean that rest
was imperative. The Salon swallowed its
disappointment, denounced the ocean in high-
pitched voices, and sent the bouquets along
to the hotel.
A gentle friend who witnessed the Salon
retreat from Moscow down that long, chilly
pier said that it was terrible to see the infuri-
ated old chooks returning with all their gush
uncorked. A female doctor who drives her
own machine wrenched the organ handle in
front, so madly that she tore the whole con-
traption to pieces, and had to take the frag-
ments home in her peggy-bag. Then, after
all these gibbering people had departed, the
famous star made a. sort of triumphal pro-
gress down the pier in a flower-decked chair
carried by four sailors. The brilliant, blue-
eyed smile she gave her patient admirers
made most of them forget the long wait.
Someone who knew her years ago in London
commented smilingly, “That’s just like Ellen
Terry! She always did exactly as she
pleased, and no one could scold when she
came coaxing.”
The Gaud Mayoral Hennessys’ reception to
Ellen Terry , was quite satisfactory. People
who do not trouble about rushed and over-
crowded society parades came out of their,
exclusive rabbit burrows to welcome the
stage pet of 40 years. The crowded Council
room was so full of food that it looked like
a famine relief depot, and the Mayoress’s
apartment was heaoed with flowers. Mrs.
Hennessy was impressive in black panne vel-
vet and a black feathered hat. She ushered
local peeresses into the Presence, and great
was her rush. I don’t know if I have men-
tioned it before, but here goes: Ellen has the
most wonderful eyes ; perpetual youth shines
in their depths and intelligence twinkles.
She can never look really old while her eyes
are open. The cunning lady had a lace
veil tied round her hat and neck so that a
youthful glimpse of shoulder was visible.
The hat and the side veil made an ideal
setting for the famous profile, and a classical
cloak of black moire hung over a deep blue
dress. She certainly looked a picture—
and not an old lady picture either.
The Cresswell dame, Mrs. Gurner and
Lesly Maddeji sped round the idol. The
Pinschof dame, who was accompanied by her
one remaining girl, threw up a spray of com-
pliments on the outskirts. Mrs. Godfrey, a
grandmother to many infants, stood up
straightly in black furs and agreed with
some critic that years need not a'ge. Some-
body else concurred with a friend that a
stitch in time need not save nine, and that
it is absurd not to have more than one cook
when making broth. The Terry was motored
away from these moralisings after a brief
stay. She* vowed that she had not got a
real night’s rest during the long voyage and
had to make it up somehow.
When she made her appearance on the
Town Hall platform the illustrious Ellen
was assailed with a blizzard of applause.
When it had passed over, she returned .a
rich, resonant “Thank you!” (it sounded
like a hearty and unaffected “How-do-you-
do?”), and got to business. She was in
front of a shadowy moss-green curtain which
assisted thf imaginative listener’s eye and
made use of the trick of turning her back
to the house. In a heavy Juliet scene, she
Vbiled her fgce as she moved about the stage,
and from the glimpses one might have taken
her for a crouching girl. The Denman lady,
wrapped in white and gold brocade and at-
tended by Gentleman Helps, led a flock of
the Best fetoales, most of whom seemed to
be half asleep after their Repertory dancing
of the previous night (and morning). They
simply had to go to the first Terry night,
else they would have made a brief stay-at
home evening of it with a magazine and a
fire. After a scene had been completed, the
star departed from the platform, vice-royalty
made an undecided move which caused a
flurried pianist to thump out the Anthem,
and the audience were stampeded for the
night, though the show was only partly
through. Manager Blascheck got on to the
platform in time to tell the last coat-tails
that it was all a mistake and that Miss
Terry would give a- complete programme on
Saturday.' ■
Like the newest corset, the motor-car is a
great hand at reducing the girth of things.
The Yon Richens, well-known Adela’de
people, just jumped into theirs, along with a
niece, Miss Englehart, and joined in Syd-
ney’s Easter parade. -On the way over they
paid an afternoon call or so upon friends in
Melbourne, and en route , and on the return
journey took' along the track that runs
through Cobar and Broken Hill, planning to
strike the latter silver dustheap about the
time of its annual race-week, frivolities. By
way of an- advt. for sunny" Australia they
mention that they hadn’t unstrapped the hood
of the vehicle since they left Adelaide. Still,
as they bumped out of Sydney along Parra-
matta-road —a far worse track, they say,
than the Coorong desert that you read the
thrilling stories about —they probably re-
flected that a motor-track can have too many
days of sunshine.
The eldest of the sporting Bill Leonards
group of sons has married Miss Doris Rey-
nolds, from the Ma State. They met on
the wet track to the Smoke, and were tied
up in the Cold Country last Wednesday very
quietly, the religions being mixed. He is
head of a big wool business here, and the
bride is said to be well dowered. The pair
will trip back here in time for the spring
season, if not sooner.
Miss Gertrude Johnson, a University Con-
servatorium girl, is the latest aspirant for
concert and grand-opera applause. The
Gaud Mayoresses interesting herself in the
deserving case, and is rallying the Best Fed
to help with a benefit concert. Melba has
given Gertrude a letter to Ponsot, who at-
tends to promising top-notes ;. also an encour-
aging pat on the back and her artistic bless-
ing. Now Gertrude’s many friends want to
gather the coin that will enable her to de-
liver the letter in person. Dolores, Clara
Butt, Kirkby Lunn and other persons of
eminence have supplied hearty encourage-
ment, so it seems up to the public.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
Dr. A. E. Wigg, who left here for Europe
some months ago, died • in London on Sun-
day. He went away with Mrs. Wigg, his younger
daughter and Miss Mary Murray. They had been for
some time on the European continent before striking
London —and disaster. He was one of the Wigg, Son
and Co. clan, and a brother of Dr. Higham Wigg, of
North Adelaide.
The Society of Arts annual show has been opened
in the Society’s rooms on North Terrace, where about
140 pictures are displayed. Incidentally, about 60
had to be refused wall-space through no demerit on
their part. The inadequate wall in question has been
covered with hessian—an artistic improvement. Mrs.
Barringer has some attractive panels, and Miss Rose
Lowcay, the two Ashtons and Miss Bosworth all score
more or less heavily.
Miss Cissie Hughes is here on a six-weeks visit
from Queensland. She is staying with her brother,
Mr. Herbert Hughes, at Athelney.
Gradually Government House is working through
its list of first appearances. On Saturday it looked
in at both the football match on the Adelaide Oval
and the military sports on the Jubilee Oval. On
Monday the Victoria League took the floor —or to be
exact, hired part of the Grand Central Hotel —and
invited Lady Galway to tea-drinking. She duly
drank, in a frock of dark-blue crgpe de Chine. She then
stood at the head of the stairs, and met everybody—•
who is anybody in a female sense—and ultimately
went home in the awed state of one who has been
shown Mt. Chimborazo for the first time.
On Thursday a few of the London-bound passengers
came up from the mailboat for lunch at the Queen
Adelaide Club. Amongst them were Mrs. Byron
Moore and Mrs. Atkinson-Wood, from Melbourne;
Miss Grace Noble and Captain Carr, recently of the
Psyche. On the same evening Mrs. Dalton Green
gave a dinner at the club in honor of Mr. Ernest
Williamson, the new manager of the Executor and
Trustees Company, and his wife. The John Shiels
and their daughter, Dr. Hayward and Mr W. G.
Gaveson were of the party, which wandered along
to the Tivoli after dinner.
Still the exodus continues. The following are now
leaving in the usual olu direction: The Lendons, ex-
Senator Symon, and Dr. and Mrs. M. J. Symons (for
pity's sake, don’t let the comp, confuse them. One
family has no final “s” and the other has, and mis-
understanding on the point may lead to international
complications, or worse).
The Galways gave a dinner on Tuesday and a
luncheon on Thursday. The hungry and the indigent
who were fed at the former entertainment included
the Chief Justice Ways, the J. H. Gordons, the
Bishop Thomases, the Downers, Judge Murray and his
sister, the Alick Murrays, the T. E. Barr Smiths,
Dr. and Mrs. Martin, the C. H. Angases, and the
John Shiels. The luncheon was mostly a Parlia-
mentary affair. Members of both parties fed in per-
fect amity—at any rate, they refrained from throw-
ing the plates at one another. Men can do this sort
of thing where women can’t. What perfect ladv
could tear food in company with one whom she had
declared publicly to be the worst kind of villain and
harpy ?
Archdeacon Dove, who was 82 when he died, had
been in S.A. for 53 years. And for 52 of them
he had lived at Walkerville. This was perhaps the
most remarkable thing about him. Incidentally, he
was a good old man, who had worked hard in his vast
Bush vineyard in his day, and who grew roses as
well as any professional or other gardener in Aus-
tralia.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


L
p
fr
vS^v
M
CIV
'■**
>*
7C
.x
m
■>
0
%
•7/ It
9 T&
/i
V 4
z/
w.
im
L
i:
K
''W
A
V
X\
S'
a
A
yk
fr
r
h
£
CH
V
0
v/y
3*
dT
x\
S£*
<£
<%s
J
KS
II
\Ws
k\
VI,
£6
!//
W
\
W
£
) . N
«.* '/
jf^
i
m
a
n
v\
4#
W^ S
3k
rn
\JWA*A^ S
2'
sV^X
and y°*
. *>** a X *>*&
A\> ® «*6V' S
.\j»V- d o v:0
• ,
lP*
Born 1820
—Still going strong
Favourite songs are crowded out by the newcomers which in turn
become the fashion for a season; but “Johnnie il other goes
steadily forward, increasing in popularity from year to year and
from generation to generation the reason is inside every bottle.
Red
Every Drop over
IO Years Old
In Non-refillable Bottles.
To safeguard the age, our policy for the future is our policy of the past. First & foremost to see
that the margin of stocks over sales is always large enough to maintain our unique quality.
Bottled only by JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND.
And at SYDNEY and AIELBOURNE.


For all parts of your
Motor Gar
LEATHtR WOOD OLA&9
Bon
m
Bon Ami removes the dirt only-
polishes beautifully, and will not
scratch.
m
For
Bathrooms
Bon Ami
is the best
for tiling,
marble,
enamel
and
porcelain.
Bon Ami
&
Just try it in your bathroom.
[3
“Aesculapius”: Tn ancient Greece they used to
erect temples over natural springs and give to each
a titular diety. l\e moderns are no less appreciative
of the healthful virtues of a mineral water —only our
methods differ somewhat. For instance, up at the
famous Helidon Spring, the water is secured just as
it bubbles up from the earth, and hermetically sealed
until the process of aeration and bottling is com-
plete. You don’t need a Greek fineness of palate to
appreciate the cool charm of Helidon Spa—it has
the same delicious refreshingness to Billjirn as to the
Earl of Hopetoun. As a blender with wines and
spirits, too, it gives just that added snap and
sparkle that counts so much in the sum of pleasant-
ness. You’ll be wise to always make it a practice to
“Figaro - ’: Read a par. here the other week about
Nature planting the giant stinging nettle in N.Q.,
but close beside it the tree whose leaves serve as an
antidote to its sting. This provision of Nature is
in no way unique, for, just as she curses us with
indigestion so she blesses us with Helidon Spa.
After dining out you’ll have no next morning head-
ache if you take a bottle of “lielidon” before turning
in—this delicious mineral water is Nature’s gift to
those who have dined not wisely but too well. A single
glass will dissolve the undigested food and at the
same time ensure a perfect night’s rest. Quite apart
from its health aspect, “Helidon” greatly enhances
the flavor of wines and spirits—so truly the way of
wisdom is always to
SPLIT IT WITH
HELIDON.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
A PROSPECTIVE
LIFT.
OLD LADY: "H ow
much will the tram
charge to take me
to the hospital,
sonny?”
SONNY : “ Wail there
a bit, mum, an’
you'll get there for
nix."
“Machete”: Rupert Clarke, in his Sydney
newspaper interview's, given before starting on his
Papuan expedition, unloosed quite a sheaf of inac-
curacies. He discoursed, for instance, on the pos-
sible dangers of the trip. As a fact the dangers are
hardly worthy of mention. Neither Macgregor nor
Albertis, both of whom explored the Fly River, had
any special trouble with local natives. Albertis
did the trip in ordinary boats, and found the current
a big handicap. Macgrcgor’s mode of transit was
a sciapheap old steam-launch, the Ruby, which had
to bum wood in a coal firebox. Even then, and in
spite of his craft’s excessive draught, he got to where
the Fly River runs into Dutch territory. Reasons
of State, or something, forbade him to go farther.
Clarke, with his very much up-to-date gasoline
launch, should be able to go anywhere the law
permits. But if he decides to follow up the
meandering Fly through Dutch territory, until it
wanders back again, to finally dive through British
into German territory, he will of course need a
sheaf of permits. No one knows the Fly’s origin,
though its volume and sudden and tremendous floods
point to sources in snow-clad mountains. Now
no one has had an authenticated glimpse of per-
manent snow in Papua, so the expedition has a chance
of discovering a Papuan Everest. Rupert also made
the rather amazing statement that he hoped ,to emu-
late Sir William Macgregor, who “never had to pull
a trigger on his many expeditions.” As a matter of
fact. Sir Wullyum dealt out more stoush to the
heathen than any traveller before or since his reign.
One notable occasion was the smashing up of the
dreaded Tugeri raiders west of the Fly. For this
action the very rare Papuan medal was granted to
the Armed Native Constabulary. Another notable
scrap took place on the Baum River, where he was
attacked on leaving one of the huge swamp villages.
Again, he cut off a great cannibal raiding partv
fiom Collingwood Bay, on the N.E. coast, catching
them in the Musa River. On all these occasions
the local undertakers, the crocodiles, were kept
working overtime.
* * * #
“Arnheim”: “Wallaby” (B. 15/1/’l4)
contradicts “Mil,” who says the north coast of
the Territory isn’t scratched as far as pearl-shell and
trepang is concerned. Well, “Mil” is right. “Mil”
knows better than “Wallaby,” and I know better
than either of them. “Wallaby” talks of the “coral
reefs” between Thursday Island and Darwin. There
aren’t any coral reefs except a few off the Vernons.
They are all rock. Trepang is never found on reefs
of any sort, and shell only in very small quantities.
Also, it is never “dived” for on reefs. There is no
white company operating. Edwards, Jolly, Witherden
and Cooper are the only pearlers on this coast, and
every one of them employs Jap divers. The crews
are Filipinos, Timor men, South Sea .men and Japs.
There is not one Macassar man working in pearl or
trepang on the whole N.T. coast. Brother Binghi
does all the trepang diving that is done at present on
fho coast, and I defy “Wallaby” to find or nominate
any man of any other race that goes down into the
water after a fish. Some of the trepang bosses help
to pick up when the tide recedes, but they never
dive. The gins are the best divers, and get the
most fish. They’ve got to or their bucks would waddv
them. In days past when the proas had a.
corner on the trepang industry all the diving
for trepang was done by Macassar men. They did
not work Binghi in the water; his methods were too
deliberate for them. Macassar captains arrived with
a proa full of men (slaves practically), and worked
them day and night. Frequently the poor devils
were marooned to make room for cargo, and that
was the last of them. There never was an “art” in
“lobbing” on pearls, and as marfv pearls are found
on the average now as ever there were.
A QUEER BREED.
NEWLY-ENGAGED SHEARER : “ What are yer payin' for studs?"
IMPORTED JACKEROO : “My good fellow, I prefer to use—ah—buttons
“E.”: For quite a time I was haunted by
the ghost at Heeley’s. We were prospectors in
Gippsland, and Heeley was an adjacent settler whose
wife did our washing and provided milk and butter,
t he first we heard of the ghost at Ileeley’s was when
Tim appeared in our tent at about 11 o’clock one
night after the whole clutch had turned in. Tim
was leading Honora by the hand, and Tim was
deathly white. So was Honora. “Will one of yeh,
’r two maybe, come ’n’ see to th’ ghost be me dure?”
said Tim. “Ghost be th’ dure,” echoed Honora.
Ghost be damned!” said Tang'ie. “Go home, you
idiots.” “I will never go home alone this blessed
night,” said Heeley, “wid the ghost he me dure.”
“A long, terrible white ghost,” piped Honora. I
went with Heeley, convinced that at any rate the
man had a deathly fear on him. At his house he
pointed out where the ghost had stood against a
big tree about 50yds. from his door. The tree was
hollow. I examined it thoroughly, and found no
trace of a ghost. Three times after that Heeley
and Honora came creeping to our tent, hand in hand,
with a piteous plea for a “fine, sound man” to go
with him and lay the ghost. We declined for a
month. Then I consented to sleep at Heeley’s a
night or two in the hope of seeing the ghost. I
saw it. It came after 10 o’clock, and was a fair-
dinkum ghost outlined in pale light against the tree.
It had luminous eyes, and a long, unwavering stare,
most disconcerting to a nervous man like myself.
I was probably as white as Heeley when we went
forward, shoulder to shoulder, to investigate. But
the ghost faded out at 20 paces, and a close exami-
nation revealed nothing. I looked the tree over
next day without result. On the following night I
saw the ghost again. On the third night I elected
to lie in ambush on the farther side, and caught
Tracker red-handed. I did nothing to Tracker, but
Heeley, with the help of heaven and Ilonora’s able
assistance, nearly killed him. It was all a matter of
a lost cow, and right of access to Tleeley’s “crick.”
Tracker called in supernatural forces to avenge him-
self. He did it ingeniously. On the side of the
hollow tree facing Heeley’s home there was lit tie
left but bark. On the inside of this Tracker had
scraped the outline of a man till the bark was so
thin as to be transparent, hiding his work with
charcoal dust. A lighted candle attached to a
long string did the rest. When anybody approached.
Tracker, hidden among the saplings, violently jerked
the string attached to the candle, and the thing was
extinguished among the debris.
'‘Stargazer”: He was sitting near me at
Melb. Theatre Royal the other night. Plain to be-
hold was he. She was pretty and smartly gowned.
That he was a country cousin fresh from the pasture
and cow yards of Billybingle was my sudden conclu-
sion. I saw no subsequent reason to revise it. His
evening suit was much too copious, his hair had hail
someone at it with a hatchet. The operative must
have been a bad axeman. His hands were large and
red, so was his face, which was decorated with too
few whiskers, such as the nice girl with him simply
loathed. Then his feet were too big for the theatre,
and were cased in boots that were more suitable for
the quest of cows than the pursuit of art. The poor
girl was suffering from him, suffering horribly. It
is all very well to abuse as caddish, snobbish and
despicable those poignant emotions that arise within
us when we have to pilot a lumbering bush brother
round town, but why should we bear such trials
patiently, and resent being run over by a motor-’bus ?
Rube walked on the feet of most of the people getting
to his seat, and they all cursed and scoffed at him.
while the girl burned red. In the seat he made
stiange noises with his teeth, and put his tect in
conspicuous places, and talked about cows, just as if
cows were something to be proud of. During Act 1
lie applauded loudly, and uttered appreciative com-
ment, like “Ryebuck!” and “Gripes, lie’s a bit of orl
light 1 When the curtain fell again he turned to the
dying girl, and said he in a loud voice: “Scot, the
feller with the cigger done his bit good!” Cruel
people in the vicinity laughed. I felt like snatching
UP suffering sister, and escaping with her from
the building. No man missed a nobler chance of
figuring as one girl’s true hero. Presently Rube had
an idea. “1 know,’ he cried, “I’ll get yell some
lollies.” “Oh, no, please, don’t.” She loathed
lollies. My oath, I will!” said Rube, going over
the people’s feet again. It was useless to protest,
lie went out. I followed him in thought. He was
dubious what to buy. “Gimme one of those,” he said
pointing to a highly-colored packet. Anyhow, the
packet he brought back was extremely decorative on
Chinese lines. He disarranged patrons’ feet again.
He offered the distressed damsel the packet. She
look it to cover her confusion. She tried to open it.
She tried with too much effort. It came open unex-
pectedly, and half its contents flew into her hair
H was a packet of confetti! Immediately the cur-
iam rose the girl fell ill, and had to go out. She
never returned.
(Continued on vane 24. )
A BALLADE O’ BUNYIPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A\ hen rhymers rhyme of g'riffins grey
And stale romancers spin their lies
Of dragons lurking in the clay,
And breathing death in maidens’ eyes;
lien out of stiff Siberian snow
They grub the mammoth huge and tall,
1 pay no heed—for well I know
A Festive Bunyip beats them all.
Uncertain yet is’t where he dwells,
Mis length of claw, his breadth of bill;
And though his form each bushman tells
He’s just a trifle shapeless still.
Me know he lurks in misty gloam
Sometimes a bulk in low lagoon,
And that he’s rather prone to roam
And prowl for prey beneath the moon.
But still he keeps incognito
In dark stand-offish attitude,
Avoids the giddy crowd, and so
Brings up his curious little brood.
He has been known to bolt a black
Who disappeared without a call,
Without a single tell-tale track—
The Grisly Bunyip beats ’em all !
When yarns are scant and lies run out
(A thing that seldom happens now)
You'll hear the camp romancers spout,
And deck him out from tail to pow.
A varied garb of feathers, fur,
They lend him with a casual fin,
And send him with a squeal and purr
to sally forth his prey to win.
They tell how once he sneaked along
Behind a roysterer rolling down
The track—with many a jolly song—•
And hypnotised him far from town ;
And though they found the victim coiled
Asleep, and sound in wind and limb,
Yet was the beast not wholly foiled—
For lo! he had canoodled him!
And none the picture may contest
Or doubt its grim fidelity,
For none can bring the parlous pest
And show him plain for all to see;
And so each artist takes the brush
And paints the beast at evenfall
As suits his fancy—or his lush—
A Festive Bunyip beats them all!
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER F.


Why You Should Buy a BEALE Piano
NINETEEN thousand five hundred previous buyers have been satisfied. We have
made and sold that number of pianos, and more Beale Pianos are used in
Australia than of any other make—British or foreign. They withstand alike the
desiccation of our torrid summers in Kalgoorhe, Broken Hill and Cobar, or the melting
moisture of sugar lands in North Queensland and Fiji. You are safe with a Beale
Piano in any climate.
The most perishable part of all other pianos is admittedly the tuning system or
wrest-plank. The Beale tuning-system being solely of iron and steel is warranted to last
for generations, it cannot fail, and every buyer will confirm this. A wooden plank will
gradually crush, as all makers have to admit, under frequent tuning and twisting of the
pins. No matter how often tuned —and with Beale pianos tuning is seldom required -
the Beale system is not affected.
Beale Pianos contain the choicest Action in the world, by the most expensive makers
of Pans, specially prepared for the Beale Pianos. Similar actions are also used by the
leading piano builders of America, France, England and Germany, but only in the
higher class.
Beale Pianos although made particularly for exacting Australian conditions have a reputation abroad of which we
possess abundant proofs. They have won the Grand Prix and three gold medals at the great Pranco-Biitish Exhibition,
London, 1908. Our pianos are solely used in the splendid Strand Palace Hotel, London, and at an aristociatic Fiench sea-
side resort. They are used by the European manager of the Chinese railways and also in Africa, whilst recently we have
received an unsolicited order for Beale Horizontal Grands to be prepared ror the largest hotel in Europe, which is now
approaching completion. Of this latter, further particulars will be advertised, with illustrations.
Quality for quality you will make a big saving in price.
Buying direct from the makers you save customs duty and middlemen’s profits.
You get a longer-lasting piano and twenty five years’ actual guarantee.
Your - Beale Piano will have a better touch consequent upon the high-class Action.
The sound boards are warranted not to crack or lose their camber, hence a violin-like results, producing the
tone for which our pianos are everywhere famous.
If your Beale Piano should at any time meet with an accident or misfortune we have all parts always ready so that
you can rely upon its perfect restoration.. You can only be sure of this with the actual makers.
Where easy terms are required we issue a EREE EIEE POLICY, so that in case of death the instrument becomes
the property of the customer without any further payment, thus removing anxiety :u time of trouble.
The Beale Factories are the largest of their kind in the British Empire and are under the direction of one of the
world’s greatest experts, Major Geopge D. Rose.
FROM FACTORY TO FAMILY.
Please let us send you a catalogue and circulars. Easiest terms and best conditions in the trade.
Kalophones, Gramophones, Records, Violins, Musical Instruments of all kinds and sheet music.
CATALOGUES FREE BY POST.
BEALE & COMPANY LIMITED
Head Office and Factories: TRAFALGAR, NELSON and COLLINS STREETS, ANNAN DALE, N.S.W.
City Showrooms: 136a-136b LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY, opposite Mark Foy’s.
George Street, Bathurst
70 Hunter Street, Newcastle
Yass Street, Young
Wagga
Lismore
Orange
131 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.
Argent Street, Broken Hill
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
Townsville
Rockhampton
Maryborough
Cairns
Mackay
839 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
273 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.


Martin s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you pet the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton *
810-SHOWMEN!
"THERE’S onlv one BEST Biocrraph
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.’’
logrue. Sole agents: Jerdan's, Ltd., 393
Sydney.
We can prove
Send for Cata-
George Street,
FRUIT LAXATIVE FOR MAMMA, DAD,
BABY, “CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.”
Better than calomel, oil or pills to clean
and regulate liver, bowels and
stomach.
Mother, daddy and the children can always
keep feeling fine by taking this delicious
fruit laxative as occasion demands. Nothing
else cleanses the stomach, liver and bowels
so thoroughly without griping.
You take a little at night and in the morn-
ing all the foul, constipated waste, sour bile
and fermenting food delayed in the bowels
gently moves out of'the system. When you
awaken all headache, indigestion, sourness,
foul taste, had breath, fever and dizziness
are gone ; your stomach is sweet, liver and
bowels clean, and you feel grand.
“California Syrup of Figs” is a family
laxative. Everyone from grandpa to baby
can safely take it, and no one is ever disap-
pointed in its pleasant action. Millions of
mothers know that it is the ideal laxative
to give cross, feverish children. Ask your
chemist for a bottle of “California Syrup of
Figs,” which has directions for babies, chil-
dren of all ages, and for grown-ups plainly
on the bottle. Remember there are counter-
feits sold here, so look and see that your
bottle bears the name of “California Fig
Syrup Company.” Hand back with contempt
any other fig syrup. “California Syrup of
Figs” is sold by all leading chemists, 1/1*
and 1/9.
Edison says on account of the increasing- cost of
wood all furniture is destined to be of steel. “Since
the steel for a given piece of furniture costs only
one-fifth as much as the wood. Steel furniture is
light, because only a little steel is required and it can
be polished in perfect imitation of mahogany, walnut,
or oak. Babies in the next generation will sit on
steel high chairs and eat from steel tables.”
Phillips Ormonde & Co., 17 Queen St., Melbourne.*
BRAND
m
STUHR.
STUHR’S
CAVIARE
FILLETED ANCHOVIES
(in Brine).
ANCHOVY PASTE.
Sold by all High-Class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO.. Hamburg*
Indents through European Exporters only.
“John P.”: A steeplechase, which as an
hilarious spectacle far out-did anything ever imag-
ined by bush bards, happened at Invercargill (M.L.)
on April 2, during the Autumn Meeting of the local
racing club. It was a 2J miles drunk, and there
were seven starters. At the finish Northern was
the only horse standing up, so he cantered leisurely
home and captured first money. That was Act 1.
One of the fallen horses, Forget-me-not, that had
tumbled in front of the stand the last time round
and half killed its rider and lost its bridle, was
peacefully eating grass on the course ; so its trainer,
J. Kirkwood, dashed out of the crowd, jumped over
the fence, and, springing on to his nag’s back, rode
it without a bridle over the last four fences. This
fine feat of horsemanship was loudly cheered, and
as, by the blessing of Providence, the impromptu
jockey managed to draw the exact weight required,
Forget-me-not landed second money. Two other
horses, Corso and Kelp (also eating grass), were
then caught by their partly-damaged riders, and
rushed once round the course, getting past the post
third and fourth. That was about the end of Act
11. When the excitement subsided and the judge
and officials began to get things sorted out, they
reckoned that the third and fourth horses had dropped
a round in the general mix-up and therefore hadn’t
completed the course. In the bird-cage, where by
that time both horses had been unsaddled, there was
a sultry argument between jockeys and owners, and
charges of embezzlement and bigamy flew around.
Kelp’s jockey, with a view to completing the course
and grabbing third money, began frantically to re-
saddle his moke. But McKenzie, the damaged pilot
of Corso, had better sense. He grabbed his saddle,
sprang on to his undressed steed, rushed out on to
the course and gave another dashing display of
horesmanship by racing round the course over six
stiff fences, carrying his saddle on his left arm. He
was closely pursued by Kelp, whose rider, on a
partly girthed saddle, was sliding about all over his
mount. Corso had too big a start, however, and
finally landed third money by four lengths. That
was Act 111. The owner of Northern could, of
course, have claimed all the stake money, but he was
a good sport, and said he reckoned Kirkland and
McKenzie had more than earned the cash for second
and third places. Then everyone went and had a
drink, or bought a new pair of boots, or something.
“Bakblox”: Re “Hamer’s” par anent the
duties of station bookkeepers (B. 2/4/T4). Here
are some of 'the jobs that I take on, as a matter of
course: Driving an engine, sawing timber, black-
smithing, carpentering, keeping drays, poison carts,
etc., in order, looking after windmills and pumps,
also telephones and lines, making and hanging gates,
cleaning out bore drains, cooking for musterers and
assisting at lamb-marking. I also look after the
store. But my real job, inasmuch as that is the only
one for which I get paid, is to keep the station
books. There is no bookkeepers’ union, so it comes
cheaper for the boss to call me that than to pay on
the basis of an engine-driver, or
telephone expert or cook.
NOT WANTED.
ACCUSED: “Not guilty, y'r Worship!”
NEW J.P. : “Not guilty! Well, what the
divil dye want t' come ’ere wastin’ the
time of the Coort fer?”
“Boro-Belle”: A profitable use has been
found for the lawyer vine, which grows in such
abundance in North Queensland scrubs. A Townsville
furniture maker, having observed the large quantity
of bamboo furniture, wicker and cane ware imported
from China and Japan, decided to experiment with
the Queensland article, and the result is good. The
solicitor vine, through being solid, is stronger than
the bamboo, will not split on being put together is
equally pliable, takes on beautiful stains, and is more
lasting than the bamboo. It lends itself to all sorts
of light, artistic furniture, at a price much below the
imported bamboo goods. Thus a new industry is
opened up in North Queensland. Previously' the
only use made of the barrister or judge vine was in
the making of ships’ fenders.
HAVING IT OUT WITH THEM .
“Hullo, Georgina, wash the weanin’ of this? And YOU, sir, wash 'ave you got to shay
for yourshelf for this intrushion?”
“Lagani-Namo”: A residence can be built
in the tropics out of coral nearly as rapidly as with
galvanised iron. The densest of it can be hewn with
a tomahawk, or sawn. Such a house is delightfully
cool and hygienic, and will outlast many renewals
of the iron. There is a chaste little coral chapel in
these Southern Isles that charms even the ungodly.
The walls are grey-white blocks 12in. x 12in. x 36in.
Seats have been hewn in sections and exquisitely in-
laid with iridescent shell. The floor is a cement of
the calcined coral. The crisp, umber, sago-leaf thatch
picked out in stars with silvery pandanus leaf, gives
a spick and span daintiness impossible to describe.
Go there some Sunday morning at 10 and you’ll see
the native pastor, in surplice and stole, expounding
the gospel to his brown-skinned flock from a neat
needlewood-and-cedar pulpit bracketed on one side
of the spacious chancel, where is also a fairy altar
of opalescent mother-of-pearl. This architectural gem
is set in a cocoanut grove just back of a glistening
beach.
* * * *
“J. 0.8.” : There is not sufficient material
available at present to settle the argument about the
date of the prickly pear’s first appearance in Aus-
tralia. Before 1840 people began to scowl at it. It
was disrespectfully known in and about Sydney many
years previously. There is no evidence that it came
here with the First Fleet, though
that is possible. Phillip tried
to take with him a bit of everything
he found at any port where he touched,
and as he touched at Rio, where the
pest abounded, though not regarded
there as a pest, he perhaps carried a
sample of it along. Its history, so far
as records have been deciphered, be-
gins in 1839. In that year a Dr.
Carlisle took to Scone (N.S.W.) a
prickly-pear plant in a pot as a
garden ornament. Mr. J. 11. Maiden
agrees that Scone is the spot from
which the pest has radiated to all
parts of Australia. Dr. Carlisle’s pot
plant spread noticeably from there to
northern N.S.W. and over the south
and west of Queensland. It is reason-
able to suppose that had it been in-
troduced by Phillip it would have
proved its baleful propagating powers in the 50
years preceding Dr. Carlisle’s experiment. The
truth may be that some American ship brought it
along in the ’2o’s or ’3o’s. The overhauling of old
manuscripts now going on may throw new light on
the matter.
“Cork”: While wending my way home the
other evening, and in the vicinity of the New-
market (Vic.) cattle yards, I came upon a crowd
of excited people and stopped to investigate. I was
informed that a bovine of the male religion had
become suddenly insane, and after making charges in
various directions had taken up a strong position
in the yard of a neighboring hotel. Observing a
coatless man running in haste, and carrying a rifle
in his hand, I ran after him into the hotel yard
in time for the following tragedy. Standing in an
open shed, and facing the crowd, was brother Bull,
as harmless a looking quadruped as ever I beheld.
The man with the gun, after a hurried consultation,
crept forward to a pile of wood about 20 yards
from the alleged lunatic beef, and resting his weapon
on a log, took aim and fired. A wild scamper by
the crowd (including the man with the gun), but
Brother Bull remained in the same position, with a
look of quiet contemplation beneath his horns. The
rifleman, after taking breath, again crept forward
and repeated the dose. The bull remained as inno-
cent looking as ever. Twioe again the assault was
repeated, and on the fourth round the victim wagged
a broken leg and stumbled forward. Another sport
then came forward and offered to try his skill, but
the ammunition was exhausted. The scene ended
by a man dressed like a waiter arriving with a
knife, and surgically operating at the base of the
animal’s horns. I am informed that the shootist
is a prominent member of a rifle club.' Surely even
the most prominent member should be able to hit a
bull, however insane, at 20yds.
EFFICACY OF PRAYER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Good Brother Veal down on his bones
Put up a mighty prayer.
His quaint, insistent thunder tones
Smote on the summer air
Like great drums smit with mammoth shanks—
Drums big as thousand-gallon tanks.
A Cornish Wesleyan was Veal,
Who prayed before the Lord
With eloquence and sweating zeal,
And all day long he roared.
The Methodists of Teddy’s Plain
Had put him on to pray for rain.
He prayed that day, and all the next
With valor fine prayed he.
The silence of the sky was vexed
With his audacious plea.
“O Lord!” he cried, and cried again
“Ah Lord, send down Thy precious rain!”
“It is no good,” an elder sighed.
“Come up, man, and away.”
But Veal he shook his head and cried:
“If rain don’t come to-day,
To prove m,v theories are true
I'll pray and pray until she do!”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.
The Real Lumper and the Dubious One.
Dear Bulletin, — An element of the chronic
wharf-labor trouble appears to lie in the
superabundance of wharf laborers. The pay
has now been fixed by Justice Higgins at
Is. 9d. per hour during the day ; time-and-a-
half (which is apparently 2s. 7id. per hour)
between 5 p.m. and midnight; and double
time (apparently 3s. 6d. per hour) between
midnight and the date when the rooster gets
up and tears the silence apart with its melody.
This remuneration seems something above
the average for toil that can hardly be called
skilled, and it is probably a world’s record.
The work is as abundant as a very inefficient
tariff and a crowd of hard-borrowing Govern-
ments can make it. No country in the world
provides more wharf-labor in proportion to
population than Australia does. At times it
is a very laborious way of making a crust, but
it is no harder than a lot of agricultural em-
ployment. It isn’t so uncertain as it used to
be, for the windjammer and the casual steam
tramp are less in evidence than of old, and
the ship that runs to a time-table (and keeps
to its time-table a great deal better than the
Sydney suburban train or the cattle truck
that brings cows from Monaro) becomes
more and more frequent. Also it isn’t half
so uncertain as shearing or harvesting or
Murrumbidgee whaling. But there are too
many men to share the profits, and every in-
crease of wages seems to make the competitors
more numerous, consequently there is never
enough remuneration to go round. One explan-
ation is that the honest professional wharf-
laborer is swamped to a considerable extent
by the dishonest amateur one. The hulking
loafer or semi-criminal, who feels that the
eye of the police is always liable to fall on
him, can’t carry round, in rebuttal of a
charge of having “no lawful visble,” a certifi-
cate of membership in the Shearers’ Union or
Seamen’s Union, or the Rural Workers, be-
cause people don’t shear or pervade the sea
or do rural work in the city. He can’t pass
himself off as a bishop unless he has more
than average intelligence, for a bishop has to
bisli with a certain amount of publicity. Nor
can he exhibit a ticket as a union carpenter
or bootmaker or bricklayer or stonemason
or even as a member of the Australian
Journalists’ Association as proof of his bona
fides. In all these walks of industry men get
jobs of some continuance, and if a man can’t
show that he ever acquired a job of continu-
ance and had sufficient skill to keep it, his
claim to be a working citizen is blown
out. But a man can be a nominal wharf-
laborer even though ho observes no regular
hours, has no steady billet, has no desire for
a steady billet, and only wharf-labors for a
while when he feels that his status is be-
coming precarious in the eyes of John Hopp.
The hulking loafer must cease to hulk now
and then in self-defence, and as wharf-labor
is the least provable of lawful occupations he
affects that. Therefore the honest, legitimate
wharf toiler has to share his industry with
far too many casuals or occasionals. The
alleged “wharfie” who yearns for a strike as
an explanation of why he is back at his old
corner and leaning against his old post is a
constant source of trouble to the union. It is
quite possible for the bogus lumper who
doesn’t lump to hold a meeting and start a
violent industrial dispute while the real
lumper is away lumping like a good citizen.
Nobody has yet devised an adequate remedy
for these troubles, but presumably one will be
found in course of time. The wharf-men may
console themselves with the knowledge that
other industries also have their “fringe,”
though it may not be quite sb wide a one.
If a. derelict owns a faded tail coat and
some traces of grammar he is always liable
to call himself “journalist.” And when
Flossie has been roped in after a good up-
standing fight with three policemen she has a
lamentable habit of setting down her occupa-
tion as “dressmaker.” —Yours etc., Solomon
Malaprop.
COMPULSORY SATISFACTION.
It may be interesting to state that every day in
every gaol in New South Wales one prisoner is ap-
pointed a delegate to test the bread, meat, vegetables,
tobacco, or any other supplies which come in. He
tests the weights and has to be satisfied as to the
quality of the supplies.— Sydney. D. T.
GAOL VISITOR : “And are you really quite
satisfied as to the quality of the supplies?”
PRISONER: “Well, it's this way, Mister, I
dashed well HAS to be!”


m
•:
.
&
■
ms
V
omm
■ . t» ;
n •.
m
' . '
bmp^i
•>
w
■ ■
is
-- ‘ j
- 1
-
if I
mm
. im
11 g§
igifl
;kv;
: ,
r
„ - ’ * i
'
A
;
'Vo
1
v
m
■ ■ .. ■ ■
s
■lll
§*
Ht
;:.v:
m
V' 4
l* ,4- J|A;i'''■-4- /4 1 " V ; ; * -4'^¥
‘ V ■ iV*;
'•: V'.- : V;
'.• V :;?•■ ■■'
0:4,
: . : ;
"Black. Square*
■l—
■ ;
R.Thorne 6 Sons Limited
Greenock- Distillery-
.
V^* voUB SEp5 rc,lß v
limHoim. TowhMiil. IONDONft
1
£siABUSMt>
-1631 (
Trade.
: Mark
S§§g|
i
V
%
%
UA^T
_____
SGHKaBMBSg £
%
Lo
*
i ■
iiiiilliiSli
M
mmmm
.. i , . ■ , 1 , 2L ,
MW
■
MM
wBRM
■
■llll
'
m
lg|gg|fi§l
The “Smack”
of Appreciation.
Thorne’s Whisky is a gentle-
man’s drink in every sense of
the term ; invariably pleasing
and always acceptable. It is
“OLD
HIGH LAND
MALT”
INCOMPARABLE
Thorne’s is perfectly distilled,
carefully blended, and patiently
aged and matured at the tradi-
tional home of Scotch Whisky
—Glenlivet. Its distinctive
flavor is always of uniform excel-
lence —its quality never varies.
And the
Connoisseur says—
“THAT’S
FINE!”


m
m
m
m
THE CURE FOR SORE THROAT
Everyone who suffers from sore throat should
send at once the coupon printed here, which will
bring a free supply of Wulfing’s Formamint.
This pleasant-tasting, harmless tablet gives
immediate relief from the pain of sore throat;
cures it rapidly ; prevents further attacks ; and
safeguards the user against catching other in-
fectious diseases like diphtheria, consumption of
the lungs, scarlet fever, measles, etc.
Wulfing’s Formamint is endorsed by over
10,000 doctors, as well as by thousands of other
people like those whose letters are printed opposite.
All Chemists sell it, price 2/6d. per bottle, but
insist on Wulfing's, the only genuine Formamint,
as its great success has produced many worthless
imitations.
Wulfing’s
FORMAMINT
FREE SAMPLE.
A. Wulfing & Co.,
17, Bond Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me a Sample of For-
mamint; 1 enclose two penny stamps
towards postage.
Name
Address
F. 13/147.
m
50 '■
SiSl
i g.
Lord Glantawe writes : “ I have been using
Wulfing’s Formamint for Sore Throat with most
satisfactory results.”
General Tillard, C. 8., writes : “ Formamint
has afforded me ready relief when, as is frequently
the case, I have been suffering from Sire Throat.”
Lord Kingsale writes: “ I and my family
use quite a number of Wulfing’s Formamint
Tablets and find them all you say they are.
I always carry a goodly number in my pocket,
and have recommended them to many friends.”
Wulfing’s Formamint is also used by the
Rt. Hon. Arthur J. Balfour, M.P., Sir Gilbert
Parker, M.P., the Hon. Mrs. Alfred Lyttelton,
etc., etc.
The Germ-killing
Throat Tablet.
a he water waggon is still leading the way
m Maoriland. and the procession of the
boozy and the blithered swells prodigiously.
The drink bill for 1913 amounted to
£4,137,653, which is ahead of the previous
year’s figures by £56,491. There is a de-
creased expenditure of llld. per head of
population compared with 1912, but, all con-
sidered, the no-license system of inculcating
sobriety in Maoriland is about due to take
the count. It was started in 1896, when
Clutha went “dry,” and that year, on paper,
each of the inhabitants was credited with
£2 19s. Sid. worth of liquor. Last year,
when the books were made up, although there
were no less than 12 so-called “dry” dis-
tricts, the cost of alcoholic irrigation per
throat was £3 14s. Similarly, the year be-
tnre the Great Fraud was commenced, the
convicted “drunk” was merely 6.60 per 1000
of the community. Now he is 11.88 numer-
ous. Since the swindle got going the known
absorption of beer has leaped from 5,138,170
gallons to 10,012,000 gallons, and the addi-
tional disappearance of whisky is the differ-
ence of 441.338 gallons. Still, the people
who support the system profess to be satis-
fied with it, and if the brewers and spirit
merchants have any bricks to hurl at it this
paper hasn’t heard any sounds of the fray.
“Whitehall” about a man of girth
The measure of High Commissioner man's maun
m the United Kingdom can best be gained, not. hy
amiable blither at banquets and the like, but by a
consideration of the attitude towards him of those
in authority. Judged by that standard Reid is
a superlative comedian ; but a person who is by no
means to be taken seriously when weighty discus-
sion is afoot. Recent developments in connection
with the New Hebrides question serve to put the
Commonwealth’s deplorable representative precisely
where he belongs in the opinion of British statesmen.
France and Britain recently appointed Commissioners
to discuss and settle the future of the New Hebrides.
It is possible that, as the outcome of their delibera-
tions, France may take the New Hebrides outright;
or the islands may be handed over, for a considera-
tion, to the United Kingdom ; or the Condominium
may be abolished and a totally different form of
government substituted ; or any one of a dozen other
vital changes may be made. Whatever happens in
this connection is of profound importance to Aus-
tralia. Practically the whole of the New Hebrides
trade is Australian; and many of the local settlers,
business men and missionaries are Australians. Yet
the other day, when Sir ICinloch Cooke asked in
the House of Commons if Australia was to be repre-
sented on the Commission the Minister said “No.”
And no surprise appears to have been evinced at his
answer either. If there is one man in London who,
by virtue of his position, should have a powerful
say in the disposition of the New Hebrides, that man
is the High Commissioner for the Commonwealth.
But Australia’s High Commissioner is quite useless
at that sort of job. He is a notable flaneur, but
work is out of his line. They know it in London
and carefully refrain, accordingly, from asking of
him duties which he is notoriously unwilling to
attempt, and incompetent to perform if he did
attempt them. So Reid goes placidly on, making
after-dinner speeches about the size of iiis waist, and
Australia remains, in all the real essentials, without
a representative in London.
—■
A cablegram from London states that a
certain Sir George Macalpine lately ad-
dressed the Baptist Missionary Society on
the fading of the caste system in India. He
reckons that when caste is finished there
will be a great boom among the Christian
Churches all over old. mouldy, mysterious
Hindostan. Certainly caste is disappear-
ing, and when it goes there will probably he
exciting events. For many centuries a great,
strange, miserable country has been divided
into social or religious grades of the most
wonderful kind. The highest-caste man,
who was few, would sooner see all Mind
trampled under foot by foreign enemies
than drink out of the pot that had been
drunk out of by the lowest-cast" man, who
was numerous. The lowest-caste man didn’t
care much what foreign enemy came along,
provided he knocked the head off the highest-
caste man. The highest-caste man didn’t
fight, as a rule. He was too darned import-
ant. The lowest-caste man wasn't allowed to
tight, and didn’t want to. The two men
who are of no value in war are Dives and
Lazarus —Dives because he is too fat and
Lazarus because he is too thin and depressed
and covered with too many sores and licked
by too many dogs. India, in the days
when it struggled for itself, had a separate
warrior caste. It was characteristic of
the place that a man wasn’t even allowed
to defend his country unless he belonged to
the clan or race or sect or religion or church
of hereditary defenders. The warriors were
too numerous in time of peace and not suffi-
ciently plentiful in time of war. So the
Mohammedans, and after them the Europeans,
among whom any man was a soldier when
required, got these Hindus down and sat on
their numerous brown ear. Now caste is
getting on to its death-bed, and no one knows
for certain what will happen, hut everybody
is afraid of what will happen, when that
crippling influence is no more. But it
isn’t the Christian religion that is killing it,
nor is there the slightest reason to suppose
that its finish will boom Christianity, any
more than the extinction of the feudal sys-
tem in France boomed Buddhism. Caste
is passing out by reason of railways and
cheap, third- and fourth-class tickets. The
Hindu lias a craving after travel. For the
sake of going somewhere, and seeing the
place, and coming back, he will pollute him-
self by sitting beside the Unclean and sleep-
ing beside the Unspeakable. When caste
is finished the locomotive will be the god of
India. And the nigger is learning to drive
it.
'“Jeames” —his tale:—
According to the cable:—
“Landless cottars have seized the Isle of Taransay,
west of Lewis, in the Hebrides, belonging to Lord
Dunmore.”
This is a popular trick with crofters on the west
coast of Scotland. In fact, it is (he only hope that
most of them have of getting hold of a bit of land,
and so evading pauperdom. I was in Skye once, in
my youth, when a band of crofters arrived and
settled down doggedly on a sort of peninsula. It
looked capable of carrying about one Australian sheep
to five acres. Yet they started building huts and
tilling the soil. The Oovernment sent a gunboat up
to remonstrate, but the interlopers refused to be
shifted, and, so far as I know, they are there to this
day.
The rural toiler of Australia would get the shock of
his life were he to spend a week as a Western
Hebrides agriculturist. Taransay, for example, is
inhabited by people who live not in houses, but in
cabins, which are in no respect more comfortable
than caves. There is not a tree on the island—-a
characteristic which it shares with Nortii and South
Uist and other places thereabouts. On the reclaimed
hogland of the lower lying parts the natives raise
a few weedy fowls and cultivate a little corn and
potatoes. On the hills they run a sheep or two, and
illicitly distil whisky for the purposes of Sabbath
revel rv. At one town near which 1 abided every
summer for some years the whole of the inhabitants
got unobtrusively blithered every Sunday. On the
other hand, bad any Southron dared to fish on that
holy day he would certairdy have been boycotted, and
possibly assaulted, as a cynical atheist.
The heather-clad hills of Taransay abound with
grouse and snipe; and duck, teal, Brent and Bernicle
geese are plentiful in the lochs which one encounters
at everv turn. However, the natives aren’t allowed
in kill them, nor could they if they wanted to, having
no guns Tiicr hands and feet are gnarled with
rheumatism to an incredible extent, and they lock
very, very old at 50. For these troubles the climate and
hard work are to blame. These people have always
impressed me as the verv poorest white folks or.
earth—in the sense that‘they have fewest of the
amenities of life. The white man has a much better
time at Cairns or Port Darwin.
The Earl of Dunmore, who owns the island, .was
Lord Fincastle till a few years ago. He won the
V;C. while acting as war correspondent in the Afghan-
istan Frontier War in 1897. Hi 3 father was the
eccentric, one-eyed nobleman who speculated a good
deal in Australia a couple of decades back.
, . ,
Dcild, IQ an Kuglisll county parish,
Charles Marson, who used to Stir lip the
Anglican fold in Adelaide 20 years ago He
had that mixture of earnest hard work, de-
-,4. M i __... ,if r , fi.Li. vtriGr.b Mm
vout religion and love ot a n a ht W c «. C
reaily High Cliurcnnian often shows. Also
lie was a kind of (academic) Socialist, as
the thing was understood in those days. By
a coincidence Bishop Kennion, then bishop
~f A del nifle was; nromoted to Bath find
o) Adelaide, was promoted to natn ana
v\ ells, and was thus again Mai soil fe bishop
on their return to England. They had a sen-
oils ecclesiastical row only four years ago.
bill the Bishop went out of his way to attend
the other’s funeral and speak of his “con-
..icif a i i . i
sistency and fearlessness. In Adelaide
Marson is best remembered by his sporting,
unclerical defence of barmaids as a class
when the wowser of those days maligned
them. In England he did fine work with
Cecil Sharp, another ex-Adelaide man, m
publishing folk songs half forgotten in the
country villages. He collected the words —
they took a bit of “editing” frequently, he
admitted—while Sharp looked after the
music, and thus many an old ballad has been
saved from oblivion.
. .
I rom London : W. IT. G. Nation is dead.
lle was a wealthy Devonshire squire who
came to London for three or four months of
the year, took any theatre that happened to
be vacant, got together a scratch company
and put on one of his own numerous plays.
He never gave any other dramatist a chance.
lie dramatised and produced nearly every
novel of Dickens and 1 hackeray. No one
ever went to his shows except by accident,
but that never worried lnm lie attended
every performance, and applauded heartily
at intervals. After the name of almost
every character were the words in paren-
theses. “with song by W. H. G. Nation.”
In this way his name frequently figured a
dozen or fifteen times on each playbill. He
■llsrt nninter! on the wills nf'whntpvor
niso pain tea, on me Mans or wnatever
theatre lie was renting, for the moment,
scores of his dreadful pictures. He was a
relative of the Vanbrugh sisters, one of
whom, Irene, came to Australia with ,T. L.
Toole Also his grandfather was a <rrent
, . ‘ rf 1 gr „
f I lend and a pa tl oil of Ixlmund Ivean. He
dropped xOIMMX) over his nobby, blit he found
employment for a good many pros.
“Martin Luther” in a glittering hour of
j .
' , , R
Reading Jeames on the Duchess d Aosta (.a.
23/4/T4) reminds me that once while travelling in
North Italy near Ovnovasso—between Lago Maggiore
u ]lew Simplon tunnel—l met the Duchesse de
1
Braganza and the Pnncipessa di Savoia. Their clothes
would have been awful worn by any but ladies of
the blood royal. It was a horrible shock to me,
later, in Leghorn, to see Queen Matilda ot Portugal
in a little gem hat (this was in 1902) which had
been a back number in Ccllingwood in 1889. King
Vittoria Emanuele 11., as only “Jeames" and myself
and a lew other aristocrats know, is excommunicated
by the Vatican. So his father and grandfather were
before him. Queen Matilda landed in Leghorn at
tie moment my old friend Ed. VII. of England arrived
in Home. Queen. Matilda is a good Catholic, anu
the excommunicated House of Savoy had to get back
somehow on the cold eye of the Vatican, which was
warmly receiving Ed. VII. and turning down Victor
Em. 11. So the Quirinal sent such orders to Leg-
horn that the Prefect and Commandant had important
engagements at Pisa, and Queen Matilda had no
reception, and went to sea again with her shocking
gem hat. The Due. d’Abruzzi, mentioned so kindly
by ]|jg old friend “Jeames, ’ is of Calabria, but, as
“Jeames” truly states, is of the Casa della Savoia.
He really doesn’t recognise “Jeames,” neither does
the Duchesse d’Aosta neither does our Gracious
Queen Mary, whose alleged portrait in the Queens
jJall of the Federal Parliament is so grossly fiatter-
j T ig that it must have been painted by a footman,
“Jeames” means well, but the last time I met
William of Germany, with the Archbishop of Cologne,
William frankly deprecated the fact that public
opinion does not now permit the execution of demo-
cratic bu tiers. The Shah of Persia was eating
prawns at the time, and casting the fragments about
the throne. The Sultan was silent on the matter, but
anybody who knows his dreadful figure c-an under-
Stand the reason of that. The Princess Scarletina
ft Macedonia—as anybody who is anybody knows—
became very rash during her illness. Since the
Q ueen 0 f the Netherlands has been ill of elephantiasis
j icr has become even dreadfuller than Queen
Mary’s; but Queen Matilda retains the D. 8.0. for the
possession of gem hats of the vintage of 1889.
“B.”: Brierly’s picture of the Rattlesnake
, , . , , , . .
111 a si ol ' lll - wlndi has been detached from
The Rangers, . Bloxsome’s old domicile at
Mosman (N.S.W.), at a cost of £5O, for
transmission to one of the galleries, was done
un( j er curious circumstances. The artist
. . ... mu , ~ ,
was staying with Bloxsome. lhe latter and
hi s g Ubs ts went away on a shooting expedi-
tion. By way of giving them a surprise
Brierly fell to on the dining-room wall. The
original sketch was in crayons. Encouraged
|,y the rapturous cheers of the house partv
he ma a e a complete job of it later. Bv the
way i t has been his very best advt.
Although he became afterwards marine
painter to the British Court, he never was
highly esteemed in art circles in Europe,
That is why Sydney and Melbourne galleries
we re allowed to gather in his best works. It
j s easy to gather in what no one else wants,
“01” reports: —
After all, the late Harry Hilliard was not the
doyen of Australian cricketers. At Maitland living
ln retirement at the multitudinous age of 94, is
Gcorge Moore, who played with the combined
against the first All-England XI (H. 11. Stephenson
captain), known as Spiers and Ponds’ venture. George
Moore was a good howler, a good field and a fair bat.
He is grandfather of Charlie Macartney, whom he
taught to play cricket with a boys hat and a small
green apple for ball. G.M. says he will reach the
century. In this matter he has a competitor in old
Diaz, of Mexico, who says that centenarianism runs
in his family.


HE4RNE^
Never Neglect a Cold
If you do, you may find yourself engaged in a
desperate fight with the Demon of Consumption.
Why run unnecessary risks when a DOSE or TWO of
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Is generally sufficient to CURE the WORS
COUGHS and COLDS
“We are never without a bottle of HEJiIINE’S
Bronchitis Cure in the house now. It practically
saved my little girl’s life. She was seven years’
old last July, and had been subject to Bronchitis
since birth. I nearly lost her two years ago. She
was wasting away and nothing did her any
good, and her Cough at night was very pain-
ful. I was advised to try
Bronchitis Cure. I got a bottle, and she
began to improve immediately under your
Medicine. You would be surprised to see
how her Chest has filled out. She has not
had an attack of her old complaint since. We are
so thankful to see her in perfect health.”
E. TAYLOR,
Bridport Terrace, Adelaide.
Sold by all RELIABLE CHEMISTS and STORES.
If unobtainable locally, send direct to —
W. G. Hearne & Co.
GEELONG
VICTORIA
CAOGHS
6-
C6LDS
IF
M6OL6CT6P
f
A
ILs
\
k
\’
i
&
vr
T6P
/«»
M
/;
m
m
lead To Consumphon.
In HEALTH or SICKNESS
Take regularly the ‘Allenburys’ Diet. It is most easy of assimilation, increasing vitality
and diminishing fatigue. It restores the impaired digestion and gives tone to the whole
system. Prepared from pure, rich milk and whole wheat, combined in a partially
predigested form, the ‘Allenburys’ Diet is a complete food, and is valuable alike for
the Invalid and Robust. Made in a Minute add boiling water only.
Allen & Hanhurys
Ltd.
LONDON, ENGLAND, and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
m
m
m
DIET
THE HANDIEST
MEDICINE OF ALU
Australians will find
m
the most useful household remedy
for Impure Blood, Boils, Pimples,
Constipation, Liver Troubles, Rheu-
matism, Want of Energy, and all
Stomach Complaints.
“Golcryst” is made from Epsom
Salts, Senna, Sarsaparilla, Dandelion,
Liquorice and Ginger, and is thus not
a quack remedy with a secret formula.
PacKets: 3d., Od. &. Is.
Free Sample posted by Proprietors—
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
MELBOURNE. [2
“THE LONE HAND” for Good Stories and Bright Articles. Price 61


AUNDERS
Sydney’s leading jeweller
Quite New Designs
from our Showrooms, and from our newly-issued Jewellery Supple-
ment containing thousands of exquisite ideas. The production is
free to YOU. Will you write for a Copy ?
Oct. Gold Ear-
rings, set Pearls
and Colored Stones,
25/-
9ct. Gold Links,
Richly Engraved any
Initials, 25/-
15ct. Gold, 40/-
9et. Gold Brooch, set Pearls and Garnet,
15/-
Oct. Gold Half-
Round Plain Buckle
Bracelet, £3.
15ct. Gold, £5/10/-
Lady’s Solid Silver Wristlet Watch, the
Newest Shape, Full Jewelled, Lever Movement, Com-
pensation Balance, set in Leather Wristlet, 50/-
15ct. Gold
Wedding Ring,
15/-; 18ct.
Gold, 20/-
18ct. Gold
Wedding Ring,
40/-
18ct. Gold, All
Diamond Cluster,
£7/10/-
!Bct. Gold, set
Pure Double-cut
Diamonds,
£l2/10/-
m
15ct. Gold and Plati-
num Brooch, set Dia-
monds and Ruby, £5.
A.SAUNDERS
326
32/6
Gold Necklace, set Pure White Pearls & Amethysts, 32/6.
9ct. Gold
Pendant, set
Pearls and Gar-
nets or Amethysts,
25/-
25/-
\
/
X
\
Gent.’s Nickel Non-Magnetic
Keyless Lever, Full Jewelled,
With Patent Balance, Non-Magnetic
Time Spring, Dust and Water proof
Cases, 20/-; Extra Quality, 25/-
Pet. Gold Links,
N i c e 1 v Engraved,
20/-;
15et. Gold, 35/-
9ct. Gold Ear-
rings, set Pearls
and Colored Stones,
20/-
15et. Gold Two-Bar Brooch, set
Euby or Sapphire, 25/-
Oct. Gold
Wedding King,
20/-; 15ct.
Gold, 20/-;
18ct. Gold,
30/-
9ct. Gold
Wedding Ring,
10/-; 15ct.
Gold, 15/-;
18ct. Gold,
20/-
18ct. Gold, set
5 Pure Double-cut
Diamonds, £5.
18ct. Gold,
Diamond Clus-
ter Iting, £lO.
m
9ct. Gold Bracelet,
set Diamonds and Red
Stones, £4/10/-
9ct. Gold Pen-
dant, set Pearls and
Amethysts or Garnets,
20/-
15ct. Gold Two-Bar
Buckle Brooch, set Pure
Pearls, 35/-
Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, Full Lever Movement,
Compensation Balance, Keyless Wo'rks, £5/10/-;
15ct. Gold, £lO,
807-817 GEORGE STREET, OPP. RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY.
Sound, beautiful teeth
are one of the grandest gifts of
Nature, but they are not intended
for mere temporary use, and only
temporarily to adorn the mouth ;
they are meant for a whole lifetime
of continuous work.
Consequently they should be
always kept in good condition by
the regular use of Odol.
Odol is the most economical of all
dentifrices, for, owing to the concentrated
strength of the preparation and the absolute
purity of its ingredients, a few drops only
are sufficient for use at a time.
fek V-
MR.
‘m- mKm


T.pgal Notices.
° n r f der the of High
L s-sss &
Qnri HfltPfl the 12th October iyi2 tne ionow
and dated . , - f . An inquiry
“sTw “lWDg"or dead and if dead when he
Sled and whefher he left any and what will
and whether he was ever man ed and it so
when and to whom and whethei theie were
any children of the said marriage and who
are his legal personal representatives
Notice is hereby given tlmt the
Charles Ernest Hippisley and al lSl '
claimin'* through or by descent from him
are personally or by their solicitors on or
before the 4tii day of July 1914 to come in
and prove their claims at the Chambers of
Mr. Justice Joyce and Mr. Justme Hve,
Room 092 Royal Courts of JHst'ce. Stiand,
London. England, or in default thereof they
will be peremptorily excluded from the bene-
fit of the said order. Wednesday the loth
aly of July 1914 at half-past .two in the
afternoon at the said Chambers is appointed
for hearing and adjudicating upon the
claims. Dated the 15th day of Decembei
1913. A KEEN, Master of the Supreme
Court. CORBINS, OLIVEY & LAKE,
218 Strand, London, W.C.,
For ABBOT, POPE & ABBOT,
Bristol,
Solicitors for the Plaintiffs.
Note.—The above-named Charles Ernest
'Hippisley who was a son of the testator
Robert Townsend Hippisley a solicitor of
Bristol England is now if alive , about 51
wears of age. He went to Australia in Deb-
iruary 1889 and was there employed by
Robert Reid & Co., and afterwards
itill May 1897 by Messrs. Sands & McDougall
.(Limited). He resided at Rochester Lodge,
(Collins-place, Melbourne. tie . lett Mei-
Ibourne in May, 1897, by the Orient Steam-
whip Orizaba for London, where he stayed
.one or two months, and is believed to have
iresided at 123 Fulliam-road, London. n
(October, 1897, lie left London, and until
April, 1898, was employed by Messrs. .1.
1 Garlick & Co., of Alderley-street, Cape
’Town, South Africa, and resided at 43 bt.
. John-street, Cape Town. He returned to
Melbourne in 1898, and expressed Ins inten-
sion of going to Queensland or Sydney. He
iis alleged to have been seen in London by an
ibid schoolfellow in 1908.
!Should the above advertisement, which
lhas reference to benefits accruing to him
iunder his father’s will, meet the eye ot the
ssaid Charles Ernest Hippisley., or m the
cevent of his death that of his widow or
cdhildren, he is (or they are) earnestly re-
quested to communicate with the least pos-
sible delay with his brother Alfred Edward
Hippisley, of 8 Herbert-crescent, London,
S.W., or with the said Messrs. Abbot, 1 ope
& Abbot, solicitors, Bristol.
To CHARLES JAMES HOLMES, formerly
of Waiuku, Auckland, New Zealand, but
last heard of in Sydney, and to all persons
claiming by, through or under him.
PURSUANT to the directions of His
Honor Sir Robert Stout, K.C.M.G.,
hief Justice of New Zealand, under Sec-
on 25 of the Public Trust Office Amend-
ent Act. 1913, you are hereby called upon
> send into the undersigned, on or before
le Ist day of October, 1914, your claim to
art of the estate of WALTER JOHN
[OLMES, late of Waiuku, Auckland,
armer, deceased, who died on the Jth day
November, 1905, intestate, failing which
estate will be distributed among the
entitled thereto disregarding your
aims. , ,
Dated At Wellington this 30th day of
arch.iiJ^-
J. W. MACDONALD,
the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Freedom, E&se § Comfort
WEIMAR
Shirt
Pat. 1274
24/5/’ll.
Stocked by
Leading
Mercers and
Outfitters.
Manufactured by
Welch, Margetson 8 Co.
Pty. Ltd.
mm
m
CHALLENGE.
murphy challenges the world
to CURE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL
BLEEDING PILES.
Permanent Cure. Established 1891.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS, NON-
APERIENT,
have cured thousands of cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by
ANDREW MURPHY, WOY WOY,
N.S.W., Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, or a Course of 8
boxes £l. All postage free.
On Sale by all Druggists, Chemists and Store-
keepers throughout the States.
Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 30th April, 1914.
Appointment of Junior Clerks to Govern-
ment Small Arms Factory, Lithgow,
Under Section 63 (1) and (2), Defence
Act, 1903-1912.
APPLICATIONS are invited for appoint-
ment as Junior Clerks, Small Arms
Factory, Lithgow, New South Wales. Appli-
cants must not be less than 16 nor more than
IS years of age. Salary on appointment, 160
per annum, but a successful applicant ap-
pointed from a locality outside Lithgow may,
in addition to the salary provided, be granted
a living allowance to bring the total remun-
eration up to £126 per annum. Such allow-
ance to cease when, by subdivisional incre-
ments, the actual salary has reached £126
per annum.
Application forms and full particulars
may be obtained by applying to the Secre-
tary, Department of Defence, Melbourne ; the
Military Commandant, Victoria Barracks,
Paddington, New South Wales; or the Man-
ager, Small Arms Factory, Lithgow, New
South Wales. Applications must be lodged
with the Secretary, Department of Defence,
Melbourne, not later than 25th May, 1914.
S. A. PETHEBRIDGE.
Secretary.
Queensland Park Saddle
A splendid saddle for general use. Made on best
English tree, with Plated Bars and Double Gullet,
and is built of best material throughout.
m
This saddle has hogskin seat and pads, extra lons
flaps, Victoria panel, deep, sweepy seat, nickel-plated
4-bar irons, folded girth, £3/19/6 Complete, add
exchange. Mention The Bulletin when ordering.
A surcingle will be given free. This saddle is for-
warded freight paid to any railway station or port,
N.S.W., or any port Queensland. Obtained from
j < p # TALiTY, Manufacturer, 388 SUSSEX
STREET, SYDNEY.
iC
Proved by independent
scientific investigation
to have a Body-Build-
ing Power of 10 to
20 times the amount
taken.
Public Notice.
The Carmichael-Bradford
DesulphurisingProcess Ltd.
(IN LIQUIDATION.)
A FINAL LIQUIDATION DIVIDEND
of Sixteen Shillings and Ninepence
per Hundred Shares will be paid on the
surrender of Scrip Certificates, which must
be endorsed, “Surrendered to the Liquidator
for final dividend,” and signed by the Regis-
tered Holder (signature witnessed) on
THURSDAY, 21st MAY, 1914, at my
office, 291 Argent Street, Broken Hill.
.T. HARROLD CAMERON,
Liquidator.
Broken Hill, 7th May, 1914.
Scientific Instruments
For Every Trade, Industry and Profession.
Hydrometers, for testing every liquid.
m
Do you use Glass Instruments in your
calling? We manufacture and repair
tliem, and guarantee their perfect
accuracy. ,
If you wish special Instruments made
for any purpose, tell us your needs
and we will quote you for the neces-
sary design. .
Our Booklet, illustrating Scientific
Glassware of every kind, is free. Snail
we send you a copy ? It costs you
nothing, and will open your eyes to
the extent of our activities.
Dairy Factory Glassware and Testing
Apparatus a Specialty.
WILSON, NAFIS 8 CO. LTD.,
Wharf Street, BRISBANE, Q'LAND.
T
HE Australian Magazine. THE
HAND, the National Monthly. 1 rice Gd.
Bb CORNET, ARBAN MODEL
5$
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED PRJ9 E l,st oF
REYNOLDS & CO.
‘CHALLENGE” BAND
instruments.
“CHALLENGE” INSTRUMENTS . are
High-grade, Artistic and Reliable. Specially-
hardened Brass is used in their manufacture,
and the yalv.es—light and free in frction-
are pf special German Silver. Every instru-
ment is tested by an expert.
Send for Catalogue.
Sole Agent far Australia:
A. P. SYKES,
272 LIITLI COLLI NS STMEIBOURNL.
A BARGAIN IN BIOSCOPES
Why Not Make Money at Pictures?
Beard’s Latest
Improved Bioscope
Complete with Tank and Basket Limelight Jet Retort Saturator and all
Accessories, ready for immediate showing, for
£4O CASH
(USUALLY V
£6O )
-This is a Complete Picture Plant
REMEMBER
, A o Wall nr in the Home. We have only four of these
outfifiTand 'they 'are sure to go quickly. Inclusive with the purchasing
of these outfits we will teach you operating free, personally or by pos .
JERDAN’S,
CINEMATOGRAPH
EXPERTS,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices in this list arc'those at which the
various boohs are published in London. Ihe
prices in parentheses are those at which the
boohs are supplied by retail booksellers in Vic-
toria, New South Wales and South Australia.
I‘hstar/e is extra, at the rate of 2d... per pound
within the Australian Commonwealth.
THE WILDS OF MAORILAND.
By J. MACKINTOSH BELL, with
8 Plates in color, many other Illustra-
tions in black and white, and several
Maps. Demy Svo. [Shortly.
BALD
Magistrate and Sub-Protector of
Aborigines for South Australia.
With colored and other Illustrations
and Maps. In 2 vols.
(255.)
Svo. 21s. net.
THE IRISH QUESTION. (Re-
printed from the December number ot
The Round Table.) With a fore-
word by the Rt. Hon. Sir Horace
Plunkett, K.C.V.O. Svo, Sewed, Gd.
“I think it will be agreed that the writer
has done a real service in making a compre-
hensive survey of the political events which
have led np to the present crisis, and in giving
English and Irish readers alike a calm and
dispassionate picture of the opposite points ot
view from which these events are regarded. It
matters not whether we agree or disagree with
the conclusions at which he ultimately arrives;
and his constructive helpfulness is not lessened
by the fact that we may conjecture how he
would vote if he were in active politics, me
value of his work lies mainly in the fairness
with which he presents the opinions which he
does not approve, and makes us feel that he
has honestly faced the facts and hidden none
of them from his readers... .It seems to me
that this essay has succeeded in presenting the
older and the newer Home Rule questions in
true perspective, and I am glad of an oppor-
tunity of saying so.” Horace 1 lunkett.
FEEDING AND CARE OF BABY.
By F TRUBY KING, M. 8., B.Sc.
(Public Health), Edin. Lecturer on
Mental Diseases, Otago University.
Svo. Paper cover, Is. Cloth cover,
2s. net. (2s. 6d.)
THE
DOMINIONS EDITION
OF
WORKS OF
RUDYARD KIPLING
IN
prose and verse.
Decorated Blue Cloth.
Price 3/6 per volume
PLAIN TALES FROM
THE HILLS.
THE LIGHT THAT
FAILED.
LIFE’S HANDICAP
MANY INVENTIONS
SOLDIERS THREE, etc.
WEE WILLIE WINKIE,
etc.
Ready
THE DAY’S WORK
STALKY & CO.
May
from sea to sea,
2 vols. _______
l
June
KIM
AND
COVERIES
July
ACTIONS AND RE-'I
ACTIONS
REWARDS & FAIRIESj
August,
SONGS FROM BOOKS \
THE NAHLAHKA. By R.
KIPLING and W. BAL-J
ESTIER l
September
***The Poetical Works in four volumes,
with the above, will be issued by
Methuen & Co., Ltd.
uniform
Messrs.
MACMILLAN’S EMPIRE LIBRARY
Paper Covers, 2/6; Cloth, 3/6 per
Volume.
631 and 632.
Scott’s Last Expedition.
Beim> the Journals of Captain R. F.
SCOTT, C.V.0., R.N.,
Together with the Reports of the other
Journeys and the Scientific Work
undertaken during the Expedition.
Edited by LEONARD lIUXLLx,
with the' assistance of the surviving
Members of the Expedition. W:ith a
Preface by Su* CLEMENTS R-
MARKHAM, K.C.8., F.R.S. In 2
vols. With Illustrations and Maps.
H. Q. WELLS’ New Story.
637 THE WORLD SET FREE. A
Story of Mankind.
639. WAITING. By GERALD
O’DONOVAN. Author of Father
Ralph.”
A Complete Catalogue of Macmillan’s Empire
Library will be sent on application.
M ACMILLANBCO. LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


THREE CHEERS!!
Haig 8 Haig Scots Whisky
(ESTABLISHED 1679.)
Franz Josef Lager Beer
Hackerbrau Dark Lager
TRY
DANIEL CRAWFORD’S
DANIEL CRAWFORD’S
SCOTCH WHISKY.
THE CONNOISSEUR’S FAVORITE.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A Washerwomen’s Union is about to be
formed in Melbourne. It is to be under the
guidance of Willie Hughes, as boss of the
Waterside Workers.
The Home Ride majority in Ulster doesn’t
Uiake so much fuss as the Tory minority, but
it occasionally does things. On a recent day
it wandered like a person walking in his
sleep to one of Carson’s drill-halls, and
knocked all the stock of illegal rifles into
pieces, and threw the fragments into the
road. There were no speeches and no ad-
vertisement only smash and departure.
Good news has arrived for the poor old
country cow which dies in the truck on the
long railway trip to Sydney. The express
train lias first right to the railroad ; then the
mail train; then the ordinary way-side pas-
senger train; then the mixed train; then
certain fast goods trains; and then conies the
tram with the hungry, thirsty cow. So there
is still hope for the animal, and if it is so.
ungrateful as to be dead on arrival the other
animal will fetch so much the more, and the
price of beef will go up again,.
LATEST' NATIONAL PASTIME.
It is gratifying to know that the Sydney
bakers strike is “off.” It is also humorous
to remember that the Arbitration Court had
given a judgment in the matter, and that
nobody cared one solitary half-cuss about
the Court or the judgment. In fact the
poor, obsolete Court wasn’t even mentioned.
Mexico is thankful these days—as it has
been often before—that it didn’t place any
of its great cities on the coast after the
Sydney and Melbourne fashion. When the
guns of the U.S. warships had battered down
the defences of Yera Cruz 1000 marines were
able to occupy the place. But it is a long
walk from there to Puebla and Mexico city
&nd Guadalajara and San Luis Potosi, and
the Yankee ships can’t climb hills.
It is always pleasant to hear that Uncle
►Sam and Father Bull are brothers, and that
mud (or is it blood?) is thicker than water,
and so on. But seeing that Bull and Samuel
have been banging around in an arbitration
court about the matter of a vessel which, it
is said, was illegally seized 102 years ago,
the friendship appears to be worn pretty thin.
Cordial acquaintances who can remember a
twopenny grievance all that time are almost
as bad as enemies.
One. more row has happened in never-quiet
Albania, where there is no compulsory mili-
tary training and no reliable army. Certain
angry f«lk of Epirus, where Pyrrhus used to
hang out, crucified 200 Albanians in a church
and cut off the fingers or hands of all the
children they captured. According to the
theories of our anti-Defence people, nobody
will ever molest us if we are courteous, .iust
and inoffensive. So doubtless these children
had hit the bulky Epirotes in the stomach,
or something of the sort.
ACCIDENTAL.
Mr. Cook: It seems to me we will yet have to take
over your railways altogether.
—Prime Minister Cook to State Premiers.
AUSTRALIA : "That's a good note, Joe; must
have been a fluke surely."
“The Crying Need for Population” was the
heading of a recent article in Sydney Tele-
graph. The need is visible to the naked eye.
-But unhappily: (1) Australia, by reason of
its silly semi-Freetrade ass of a tariff, is, in
proportion to population, the greatest import-
ing country in the world, and as things can’t
be both made and imported, there isn’t much
woik for artisans; (2) so much money is
being_ borrowed to pay for imports that the
debt is the biggest per head on earth, and
the population is half-inclined to get away
to avoid the interest bill; (3) the farmer has
to sell his wheat to artisans in Europe in-
stead of to artisans right at his door, and
the freight charges make him feel discour-
aged.
Gilruth, the horse-doctor who runs the
Northern Territory, urges that the place
should get anew name, and
proposes “Kingsland.” It is
a very poor sort of name.
AVliy not call the whole place
Darwin? Still, Kingsland,
had as it is, would be better
than the present designation.
A casual curse of Australia
is the State names. A
patriot might die for England
or Ireland or France or
Spain, uttering the name of
his country with his last
breath. But if he fell shot
tn the heart on the battle-
field, he simply couldn't say
that he perished gladly for
the Northern Territory of
South Australia.
A deceased Adelaide merchant left a fund
to pay for the delivery of one lecture at the
local university every second year, which
seems a long while between drinks. This
year the lecture was on transportation, and
the lecturer mentioned that the cost of hump-
ing a ton of goods one mile on the private
railways of England was lid., on the State
lauways of S.A. nearly Id., and on the pri-
vate railways of the United States less than
2>d. It looks a good advt. for U.S pri-
vate enterprise, but then in the U.S. the fine
old capitalist used to. get such enormous land
giants and cash subsidies that in many cases
he really received his railway as a present
tiom the patient community. One company
had a surplus left after building its line out
of Government grants, and built part of
another line with what remained of the steal
f. n< l th e n . did another steal. Still it called
itself Private Enterprise.
Miss Beatrice Grimshaw writes:—
I wonder is it generally known in Australia that
free land, or what amounts to it, is not yet a
thing of the past in Papua? It is true that you
must pay survey fees amounting to £2O per 100
acres, if you take up a large holding. l!ut you can
take up soil not exceeding 100 acres absolutely free,
for 10 years, the Government surveying it at no
cost to the holder. After 10 years, a rent of Sd.
an acre may be demanded, and, after 20, it may
mount to the figure of 6d. or Is. the acre, or it
may not. But it can never be more, during the
99 years’ lease that the settler is given. Improve-
ment conditions are not heavy. Within two years
the settler must make a commencement of some sort,
and within five, if he has taken up a 100-acre area,’
he must have 20 acres cleared. It costs £5 an
acre to clear light timber, and £7 to clear heavy,
according to the rates at present prevailing. The
best land is the heavy-timber country. There is
nothing in the range of tropical productions that
Papua will not grow just a little better than other
countries will. Rainfall is constant and heavy, and
you can pick your annual fall within a very wide
range, as suits yourself, since there is land to be
liad of every kind. There are good prospects in
Papua for the small man, if he is the right kind,
but not otherwise. He must live on his place, and
oversee his own work; he must put up with a good
deal of loneliness and want of amusement, and he
must not drink. He will not suffer from fever to
any extent worth mentioning, if he feeds and lives
conformably. It is true that the qualities that make
a successful settler in Papua would also ensure suc-
cess nearer home, but New Guinea enjoys the great
am antage of a climate that can be relied on, absence
oi hurricanes and droughts, and liberal, constant
ram. The projected railway from Port Moresby
to Sapphire Creek, a distance of about 20 miles, will
make a great difference to landholders in the sur-
rounding country, much of which is still available
for taking up. The land lying eight to 10 miles
from the terminus of the railway, however, is much
better than that through which the line will run
since the former is in the wet district, and carries
the heavy timber, which the drier land near Port
Moresby cannot support. Still, there are some plan-
tations within _lO miles of the capital—growing
tobacco, fruit, sisal hemp—and some of them are pay-
ing well enough. Cocoanut land is available along a
very large portion of the coasts, though not close
to Port Moresby. A settler who can do his own
overseeing, and even part of his own building, etc.,
may make a start on a few hundred pounds, and get
through all right. Full information as to the best
products to grow, supply of labor, and so on, may
bo had in Port Moresby. Men trained to town life
would be better advised to try elsewhere. Papua
is still in the rough more or less, and the undoubted
advantages of free land and reliable climate have to
be paid for in other ways.
Last week (to be precise, Saturday, May
saw the end of the two years period
which had to elapse, under the Parliament
Act, before the King could give his assent
to the Home Rule Bill. The Home Rule Bill
is being debated for the third time, in the
Commons, at the moment of writing. It will
presently, as sure as eggs are hen-fruit, he
eontumeliously flung out of the Lords for the
third time. Since the 9th inst., nothing has
stood in the way of the King giving his
assent to it. So whatever trouble is brewing
may be expected quite shortly. Of course, by
the way, the two-years business applies not
only to the Home Rule Bill, but to all legis-
lation under the Parliament Act—Welsh Dis-
establishment, Plural Voting and all the rest
ot the contentious measures which render the
honest British Tory well nigh epileptic every
time he thinks about them.
Ihe cry of the candidate in the Povertv
Bay (M.L.) Herald:—
, TO THE ELECTORS.
Ladies and Gentlemen, —
.} am a Candidate for the Borough Council I
mtend to let the Burgesses of this Borough elect
me without being elected before the Election Con-
venience for the Public in this Borough there is
none. I intend to see that this will be remidied
to accormdate for both ladies and gentlemen When
you go to the door you put a penny-in-the-slot and
the door opens, and eventually it will cost the
Borough Council nothing. The six houses wants
electric light in the Victoria Township. I will do
my best, if elected, to see that you get it as it is
a revenue for the Borough Council. Why not vou
have it as well as anybody else? I will do my best
It is a serious question
whether N.S.W. shouldn’t sus-
pend all further railway exten-
sion until Premier Holman is
gone. . Despite the recent in-
crease in charges the signs are
that there will be a bigger
deficit, both on railways and
tramways, this year than last.
Some kind of a curse seems to
hang over the Holman mud-
dlers, and every time they
borrow £1,000,000 at 4 per
cent, to develop the great nat-
ural resources of the country
they can only contrive to make the money
earn 2 per cent., or 1 per cent., or nothing.
Sometimes they seem to earn less than
nothing. Possibly they are paying storage
charges on the loan.
The Peake Government, in S. Aus., which
got into office by representing that Socialism
was a ravenous tiger, has decided to forth-
with take over all the wharves at Port Adel-
aide. With the before-mentioned ravenous
animal in command, it says it reckons Port
Adelaide can be made one of the finest ports
in the world. Has Peake discovered that he
was wrong (in which case he should, of
course, resign), or is he merely the usual
humbug that the party system breeds?
lhus the Navvy (Sydney) :
The Labor party was elected for the purpose of
the^workeJs. 8 * 106 ° NE SECTION ONLY - and P that is
The Labor Party in polities has some curi-
ous friends among its friends.
JOHN REDMOND, of Ireland.
The bi;and : new Harbors Board of South
Aus., which is to relieve the Marine Board
of nearly all its functions, is going to be
housed in the National Mutual building in
\ ictoria-square, Adelaide, which has been
bought for the purpose by Government. It is
on the west (or unpopular) side, and the
deal helps on the policy lately commended by
The Bulletin of making the Square buck
up and demand public notice as the centre
of the city. The Act of Parliament which
created the Board also gave it poAver to take
over every wharf in the State, and it talks
of collaring the whole wharfage of Port
Adelaide, for a start, by the end of this year.
, Bast week £llOO a foot was given for a
piece of land 15ft. in frontage and 150 ft. in
depth in Collins-street, Melbourne, on the
Block and adjoining the historic Howie pro-
perty. The property was a part of the Dismorr
estate, purchased in 1850. James and Natha-
niel Dismorr were drapers, outfitters and
hosiers at 53 Collins-street. The pair parted
in 1854. James started as a draper five doors
JAMES O'DOWD.
IN TOPHET.
RUBBISHUS : “ What's this for—the tip?”
KNOWITUS: “Hansards. The salary-mongers
of the Commonwealth Parliament have
been wasting their country's time on
Censure debases.”
south, while Nat remained for a while as a
silk merchant. Both retired in the mid ’so’s
with the usual pile. At the first land sale.
June 1, 1837, the half-acre, of which the
above-mentioned 15ft. are a part, was sold
for £2O. One of the Dismorrs married a
daughter of the first Anthony Hordern.
OUR THEORETICAL SAFETY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Times, commenting on the Pacific naval ques-
tion, says that from the Admiralty’s point of view
the change from the 1909 agreement was doubtless
completely demonstrable on account of the strain of
armaments. “The abstract proposition,” adds the
journal, that the safety of the Dominions depends oh
Great Britain’s strength in the North Sea is an im-
palpable consolation contrasted with battle ship? sta-
tioned in their own waters.”
The little ships were on the sea,
We saw them all a-row,
And wondered what their game might bo,
Till they began to throw
Their shells. A score or so
Fell on us ere we wired our fear:
“John Bull, the Japanese are here.”
His answer early was and bright:
“The German Ocean is all right.”
The yellow men in swarms came down,
With rifles in their hands.
They swept us from the blighted town,
They drove us from the lands.
We fled in tattered bands.
Our leaders sent one message more:
“The Japanese are all ashore.”
And John Bull answered: “That may be,
But you’re safe—in the Northern Sea.”
Invaders bold took all we had.
They tore our flag to shreds.
Our women’s fate was rather bad,
And we who kept our heads,
Hid high in mountain sheds,
Sent out a wireless cross the seas:
“Australia now is Japanese!”
The answer was: “On the North Sea’s swell
The Empire’s safe, and all is well!”
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


Hill Climbing Contest
at Wildwood
Automobile Club of Victoria Held on April 27th, 1914
The Closed Event (Class "A") was won by Mr. C. Robison’s 11.9 H.P. "Arrol-
J 'hnstcn," driven by owner.
The Open Event (Class "A") was won by Mr. A Hoette’s 12/20 H.P. B Ber.z, n
driven by owner, and
Mr. R. Lane secured second place on his 12/20 H.P. "Benz," driven by owner.
The Open Event (Class "B") was won by Mr. R. Lane’s 22/40 H.P. "Benz,"
driven by owner.
The Ladies’ Competition was won by Mr. C. Robison’s 11.9 HP. *Arrol-
Johnston, 11 driven by Mis; Stavely.
Mr. A. Hoette’s 12/20 H.P. "Benz," driven by Miss Mclntosh, secured second
place.
These Contestants selected and used
Pratt’s Spirit
and
Gargoyle Mobiloil
Mr. A. Hoette using Pratt’s Spirit and Gargoyle Motile il also secured the
best formula result any cUss (open event).
The Wildwood Hill has an average gradient of about 1 in 6/4 and is nearly a mi!e
in length.
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand.
“RINGER” DOMINION
AGCORDEONS
(ITALIAN
MODELS)
The player who wants the very best must have an Italian Model “Ringer”
Dominion Accordeon. All over the world the Italian Model Accordeon is
now the accepted instrument for the artist, and it is the style that is
used by such famous players as Prosini and Guido Deiro. The arrange-
ment of the keys, with their handsome pearl tips only slightly raised
above the keyboard, makes quick execution easy and the extra basses allow
of a variation in the accompaniment that greatly enriches the music.
No. 131/10 “RINGER” DOMINION, Italian
Model, 10 keys, size 10J inches x oi inches,
two sets extra broad reeds of special voic-
ing, each pair of reeds on separate plate,
four bass stops with major and minor
chords, twelve-fold best American cloth
bellows, with all corners metal bound,
polished walnut finish tops with Marque-
terie edging, celluloid name plate, screwed
pearl keys, Six Brass Amplifying Trum-
pets, leather straps
mm.
tim
f,r
fiCCOfJDEO.'J.
11
mm
j^fuoxaunjju
J '-\NaiNiwaa.
uttuaiauHiuuuiiauiaii
'Z*2KK
am
PRICE
42/-
No. 131/21 “RINGER” DOMINION,
Italian Model, 21 keys, size Hi inches
x 6i inches, two sets of extra broad
reeds of special voicing, each pair of
reeds on separate plate, eight bass
stops with major and minor chords,
fourteen-fold best American cloth bel-
lows, with all corners metal bound,
polished walnut finish tops with Mar-
■queterie edging, celluloid name plate,
screwed pearl keys, Six Large Brass
Amplifying Trumpets,
Leather straps,
PRICE 75/-
WRITE for our Complete New Catalogue of the
Famous Dominion Accordeons and Concertinas,
Cobber Mouth Organs, Violins, etc.
JACKSON & MACDONALD,
457 Kent Street (corner Druitt Street), Sydney.
TECHNICAL BOOKS
These are a selecticn of STANDARD BOOKS that we
can recommend very highly. We invite inspec-
tion, and will write and give fuller particulars to
those interested.
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND,
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 George Street
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS),
Sydney.
Typical AOStraliao SoCiVcijirS
STEWART 'dAWSON’S
In these fine examples of Australian Souvenirs you have a sure winner of
approval from Australians or folk “At Home.” You can rely on the
ivorlcmanship and materials beinp up to the usual hiph Stewart, Dawson
standard. The prices are really loiv. Suppose you send a ' Surprise
packet ” by next Mail ?
05565. —F i n e a t
quality Enamel and
Solid Silver Spoon,
9/6.
C 9193. —9et. Gold
Emu Brooch, 7/6.
(015290. —Finest quality Silver-plated Souvenir Ink-
stand, 22/C.
Al93.—9ct. Gold Souvenir Brooch,
9/6.
m
Al9O. —9ct. Gold Australian
Souvenir Brooch, 6/6.
We pay the full Postage on
these articles to any address.
Write for our New Art
Catalog when ordering.
C9423.—501id Sil-
ver-mounted Glove
Hook, 1/C.
015524.—S i 1 v er-
plated Flower or
Hatpin Stand,
7/6.
STRAW P CORNER,
412 6*orgc Street, Sydpey-
Also Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and New Zealand.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE anti COOLCARDIE.
*
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
To thoroughly enjoy the week-end trip or to kill
the monotony of a voyage or a railway journey it
is only necessary to arm one’s self with a copy of
“A Journalist and Two Bears,” the book of the
year. This collection of tales and verse from the
pen of James Edmond has the infinite variety that
appeals to all men, and makes the world a much
better place to travel or week-end in. If your book-
seller has not got it send 13 penny stamps to the
publishers, The Platypus Press, 117 Bathurst Street,
Sydney, and the book will be sent by return post.*
Situation Wanted.
TRAVELLING COMPANION.
/'"IENTL., 46, finest refer., good appear., well educ.
VJ and trustworthy, world-wide trav. exper,, wishes
to apply for position as Travelling Companion.
AVrite to H. 8., G.P.O. Box 1945, Sydney.
If you wish to read a breezy account of
any of the great fights that have taken place at the
Sydney Stadium, you will find it in that cheerful
hook with the red cover, “Famous Fights at the
Stadium,” by C. A. Jeffries. Price, one shilling.
If your bookseller hasn’t got it, send 12 stamps to
The Platypus Press, 117 Bathurst-street, Sydney
The hook is now in the second edition.*
EXPECTATIONS REALISED.
GLEN INNES LADY STRONGLY
PRAISES DR. MORSE’S INDIAN
ROOT PILLS.
“I have used Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills for biliousness and constipation,"
writes Mrs. Rachel Little, of Burke Street,
Glen Innes, “and in their action I can say
they have done all that I expect of them.
I can safely recommend this medicine as
good for those suffering with either bilious-
ness or constipation, and you may use this
testimony for ‘publication.’’
In thousands of homes Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are the sole family remedy for
all general complaints. Those who have
never tried them will find neighbors, friends
and relatives who can testify to the wonder-
ful corrective influence of these pills.*
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The return mill between Hugliie Mehegan
of Australia, arid Milburn Saylor, of the U.S.A., was
a tremendous display which on Saturday night last
drew the largest crowd Sydney Stadium has
seen for some time. Mehegan was the national hero,
and he was there to redeem his cause. Through the
dark masses of packed humanity round the ring
rolled a wave of telepathic anxiety. Would Mehegan
be once more the Mehegan of old, and with a shower
of body punches beat down and out this hard-hitting,
aggressive Yankee fighter? Immediately the fight
started it was apparent that all Nature was hostile to
such a probability, and the stars in their courses
fought against it. God had been good to Saylor
and given him a longer reach, superior hitting-
power and greater speed. Mehegan had pluck and
endurance. If all his endurance had been put on a
freight train and despatched to Melbourne it would
have blocked the line for three weeks. Both were
in perfect condition. Mehegan’s weight 9st. 91b. to
Saylor’s 9.st. 6flb. Only perfect condition couid
have kept the scrap going as long as it went, for
Saylor was in a hurry. Apparently he wanted to
finish the fight and go and get married or confirmed
or something. Mehegan kept attacking, and as he
went in Saylor met him with long-range swings.
His reach suggested a wireless telegjram. But
Hugliie broke through the barrier of natural advan-
tages and lambasted Savior about the body so that
lie was glad to hang on for surcease, repose or
philosophical reflection. But that was only occa-
sionally. For the most part Hughie was a reel-
ing force. Saylor fought what, for him, was a
remarkably fair battle. But, all the same, he
succeeded in rousing the ire of the press and the
public on more than one occasion. Punishment has
an embittering effect on Saylor. He goes on the
howl, and it is then he does those things which are
certain, if persisted in, to end his brilliant career.
In the 11th, Mehegan got to close quarters and un-
loaded a last, desperate effort. But it exhausted him,
and then Saylor came like a storm. Mehegan went
down, but rose again at eight, and once more Savior
rushed him. Down again, and the gong ended the
round. Immediately Meheean came out the aggressive
Saylor set full sail across the ring and hit in a large,
general way, and again Mehegan went down. Then
the police rose majestically, and at the stroke of
nine issued its protocol saying, “Let there be peace!”
and there was no more war.
The scribes of the Sydney Evening News,
the Sund.av Timks and The Bulletin have, from time
to time addressed Saylor severely on the subject of
his method of fighting. On Monday last these pre-
sumptuous scribes were severely castigated in Sydney
Sun by Mr. W. F. Corbett, who blew off in great
style. Mr. Corbett defended Saylor’s methods He
was expected to by all parties concerned. Saylor is
a United States boxer, and ever since he fell under
the fascinating influence of the charming Noah Brusso,
Mr. Corbett has been unable to see any wrong in a
Yankee boxer, or much good in an Australian one.
If Australian boxers are flattened out by occipital
blows delivered with the wrist or the heel of the
palm, serve the swine right. They shouldn’t have
left their necks in the road. This is the kernel of
the argument which Mr. Corbett puts forward under
many cross-headings, such as “NOT A FOUL
PUNCHER” ; “SAYLOR FALSELY ACCUSED,” and
“A GREAT FIGHTER DISCREDITED.” If Mr.
Corbett has failed to see Saylor land other blows than
the occipital one with the heel of his palm; if he
has not observed the same young man, no doubt
through carelessness, uppercut his opponents with
his bare forearm, then he is just as unable to see
as he infers his fellow scribes are unable to think.
* * * *
Although football in Sydney kicked off in
a mutilating mood it has a long way to travel
before the Yankee record is in danger of being
eclipsed. In the 13 seasons ending with 1913 the
casualty list worked out 234 mortalities and 2603
injuries. Yet they talk about the brutality of
boxing!
* * * *
Judging by Saturday’s exhibition the
Rugby League’s First-grade teams are already
divided into sheep and goats. The clubs that won,
won easily and handsomely, the ones that went under,
excepting Glebe, were hopelesslv outclassed. Just
consider the list:—-
South Sydney beat Glebe by nine to two.
Eastern Suburbs downed Western by 10 to two.
Newtown defeated Annandale by 13 to three"
North Sydney scrunched Balmain by 24 to three.
The only struggle that had much evenness about it
was the dust-up between South Sydney and Glebe
at tlie Sydney Cricket Ground in the presence of
25,000 enthusiastic barrackers. Play started bril-
liantly, and was kept so. But South Sydney was
altogether too nippy for its ancient rival. South’s
forward pack sunk its own individuality and con-
tented itself with heeling out, and then the South-
ern back machine got opportunities, and the rest
was smash and wreckage of Glebe in spite of a fero-
cious struggle. The way that superb back machine
juggled with the ball was beautiful to see. The rest
of the matches were merely the trampling down of
weak teams by stronger ones. North Sydney gave
a magnificent exposition of how to do the job with
Balmain for an illustrative subject. Still, there is
no reason why the defeated teams should not pull up
somewhat. That they were short of the practice
that makes for perfect handling of the leather at
high speed was the chief trouble with them. The
trouble is, of course, that the victorious clubs will
get so long a lead that there will not be time to
overhaul them.
* e * »
The same deplorable circumstance was
noticeable in the Union game, to a lesser degree.
University smashed up North Sydney by 22 to 15.
Randwick did for Newtown by 18 to 11—an amaz-
ing circumstance considering Randwick is a new
club and Newtown a hefty combination , with a
mighty past behind it. Glebe kicked the stuffing out
of Western Suburbs by 15 to four. Balmain wal-
loned Manly by 14 to eight Eastern Suburbs and
South Sydney struggled grimly to a draw with 1C
each. St. George had the bye. None of the games
were worthy of comment. They were all strenuous
enough, but none of them showed the bright, spark-
ling quality that catches the public bob.
The bogging in of Melbourne’s League toc-
ballers proceeded apace on Saturday, to the gratifica-
tion of several thousand disinterested spectators and
the annoyance of bigoted barrackers. The largest
congregation transported itself to the little ground
at Fitzroy to watch South perforin against the pre-
miers. Neither side had been properly tested this
season, but public opinion reckoned that “ ’Roy
would about do it.” As usual, pub. op. knew little,
as the Red-and-Whites started off at a pace that got
them a ten-point lead, and were never afterwards
headed, winning by eight points—74 to ’Roy’s 66.
On the whole, the play was too congested; both
sides were too eager to prevent the “other bloke”
from getting going to try their own systems
under way, and ’Roy made the mistake of persistently
playing to its star forward, although he was too
closely watched to allow of effective play. The
improved Essendon 18 went to St. Kilda and per-
formed a considerable and to some people aston-
ishing feat by capsizing its opponents by 69 points
to 52. After trouncing Richmond and wearing down
Carlton by sheer persistence the Saints reckoned they
“had the Dons as a gift,” but the latter set a
pace the Saints couldn't follow and kept it up till
the bell rang. Nevertheless both sides favored in-
dividual excellence, and a strong, concerted team, like
South, should wipe out both. ’Wood was at home
to Richmond and pleased its partisans—and few
others-—by demolishing it holus bolus, 90 points to
36 being the record. Carlton utterly spiflicated and
scarified the Students with a score of 102 points
to 32 ; also Geelong stamped on Melbourne with a
tally of 74 points to 58, but as the Seasiders were
on their own ground and Melbourne had to dress
while sprinting from the station to the ground—
the Railway Department’s express being late as usual
—this performance was nothing to “skite” about.
The Melbourne Ass. games likewise furnished a
couple of shocks, Essendon going out to ’Scray
and paralysing the premiers by its speed and dash.
Latter made a valiant effort to pull up towards the
close, but when the bell rang were still 12 points
to the bad —33 to ’Don’s 45. The hitherto unde-
feated ’Townites accumulated a similar handful of
points against Brunswick, which conglomeration
simultaneously raked in 54, and so raised itself a
step on the ladder. The two tony suburbs of Brigh-
ton and Haw-haw-thorn indulged in a discourteous
and undignified scramble, from which Robinson Snow-
balls’ constituents emerged with the less damage—.
101 points to Hawthorn’s 41. North took Northcote
by the slack of its deficiency, so to speak, and strewed
it over the paddock and jumoed on it and left it
demoralised and almost moribund. North 1,25 points,
’Cote 16, was the scorer's disgusted statement. Also,
P ran attacked Port with vigor and the strong boot
and notched 62 points to Port’s 34. There was a
time when Port would have wiped its feet on P’ran
with the casualness of a householder cleaning his
boots on his doormat; but those days are not.
* * * *
Through the week the League investiga-
tion committee took out its axe and buried it, in a
manner of speaking, in the person of a Carlton
bailer, for mistaking an opponent’s ribs for the
ball. It disqualified him for three long months.
It wasn’t a very great offence, so the committee is
evidently out for gore, especially as it explained to
the culprit that it had “let him down lightly because
lie was a young player and had been accidentally
kicked beforehand.” Certain ill-regulated ’bailers
will lie wise to inwardly digest these remarks.
The chief features of the N.S.W. r. Vic.
tennis match were: (1) the awful hiding Victoria
received—lB rubbers, 38 sets, 287 games, to three
rubbers, 12 sets, 172 games; and (2) the unmerci-
ful way that A. B. Jones ladled out the acid to
his _ opponents. His two singles matches were
against Rod Heath (several times Davis Cup rep.)
and A. Campbell, and on each occasion he won 6—2,
6—o, or 24 games to four. In the doubles with
Clarke, who was very weak at times, he won six
sets and lost one. If an all-round performance like
that won’t _ convince the Davis Cup selectors that
they are doing Jones an injustice, nothing ever will.
The youthful Jimmy Anderson did pretty well. He
beat Campbell 6—2, 6—2, but lost to Heath 2—6,
6 —;4, 4—6, though his win in the second set was
mainly due to several faulty decisions. In the
doubles with Marsh, , who played a splendid game, he
won one rubber and lost one. Patterson, the Vic.
colt, didn’t show up too well, but it’s pretty evi-
dent that he will make a big impression soon. In
the ladies’ section the Mrs. Ford-Miss Stewart match
lasted 21 hours, and was won by Mrs. Ford by
11—9, 9 —7. Naturally both ladies were quite
done up, so the play was anything but of a high
order. Miss Cozens put up the best show for the
Ma State. It was her first inter-State match here,
and she was the only N.S.W. lady to take both
rubbers. The Victorian ladies won the match by a
very small margin.
After waiting with a patience that knocked
Job’s record kite high, the Australian Board of
Control was roused from its slumbers last week by
the news that the guarantee demanded for the
despatch of an Australian XI to S’Africa for the
triangular contest had been accepted. The Board
demanded £2OO each for 13 players and a manager,
and the acceptance by the S’African Union throws
the Board into a state of electric activity. The
Australian team will leave here during the first week
in November, and its programme will show five
tests and 20 other fixtures. The selectors are
Clem Hill and L. O. S. Poidevin, and E. Bean, of
Melbourne, will have the charge of sifting the
players to make the trip.
J. N. Crawford, of S.A., is being dragged
to Otago (M.L.) in an awful hurry ; but there is a
reason behind the indecent and expensive haste. One
of the laws governing cricket in the Borrowing Isles
saith that a man must reside six months in a province
before he is eligible to play for it. Hence Otago’s
frantic desire to get Crawford to cast his luggage
ashore in the Scawtch metropolis without delay, so
that he’ll be available to go in pursuit of the Plunket
Shield next season. That bauble is really the whole
root of the importing mania, as far as cricketers are
concerned.
The Dunlop 100 INliles Tennis Relay Road
Test (what an awful title!) is causing excitement.
As will be remembered, North Sydney Cycling Chib’s
team beat all records and annexed the boodle. But
Granville came along with a protest. It was assever-
ated that the Northern team did not comply with the
condition that no pacing should be allowed. In fact,
it stated that all North Sydney went out on its bikes,
its motor-bike and its side attachment and its dog
and took the team along. At time of writing the
Dunlop Co. is investigating with a dazed expression
and a clouded brow. But even then the cup was not
full. Some blunder took place in cabling from
Maoriland P. O’Shea’s 10-mile relay, and his time
was gijen as 20min. 42 2-ssec. It should have been
two (minutes more, so that prize passes from O'Shea
to the well-known Sydney rider, G. H. Horder.
He covered the distance in 21min. 50sec. But as
Horder is a member of the North Sydney team, which
is accused of having been paced like the Devil, the
question whether Harder or O’Shea gets the prize
depends upon the verdict in the previous case.
Saylor's rabbit-killer , with Hughie Mehegan
as the. bunny.
Cyclist F. White, who started out to
break F. Birtles’s record of 31 days three hours 15
minutes from Fremantle to Sydney, was forced to
abandon his ride at Coleraine, owing to heavy floods
on the Victorian border. Leaving Fremantle on
March 23, White established a new record to Cool-
gardic in two days, 22£ hours, as against the pre-
vious best of three days 10 hours. Widgemooltha
was reached at 7.15 the same evening. Attempting
to take a short cut between Widgemooltha and
Fraser’s Range, he lost one day through the track
being washed away, and he trard toride right back to
Widgemooltha (what a name!), thence to Norseman
and on through heavy rains from Fraser’s Range and
Balladonia. The trip was uneventful until he
reached Denial Bay, where he lost another day fool-
ing over a short cut which proved unridable and
forced him to go back for forage. Near Ililtaba
cattle station he had to walk 25 miles, owing to
heavy sand. From Eucla to Port Augusta he ran
through an old-man drought, but had cool and
cloudy weather, which helped him a-lot. From
Port Augusta, through Adelaide, down to Miningie
the roads were good and fast times were established ;
but at Miningie horrible weather caught him and
some of the wind squalls were worse than earthquakes.
The black-soil country around Narracoorte and on to
the Western District of Victoria broke him right up,
till, at Coleraine, which he swam into, he burst his
boiler and abandoned the attempt, as he had no
hope of equalling the existing record. In the latter
stages he had to dismount every few yards to scrape
the mud from his wheels before he could progress.
But, all the same, White intends to claim the
Unpaced Record between Fremantle and Adelaide,
as the previous holder had the advantage of motor
pacing on portions of the journey and cycle pacing
on other stretches. He finished in excellent fettle
and weighed 10st. 81b. when he arrived at Cole-
raine, as against lOst. 51b. when he left Fremantle
on his Davies-Franklin bike shod with Continental
Tyres.*
When M. Guillaux steered the first hydro-
aeroplane over Sydney Harbor, with its owner, Mr.
Lebbeus Hordern, as a passenger, he laid the founda-
tions of a hew sport. Mr. Hordern himself is learn-
ing to manage his own hydro-aero, and there is not
much doubt he is the pioneer. In another year or
so they will be thick over the harbor and surround-
ing landscape on Saturdays and Sundays. The hydro
is probably just as dangerous as the land aeropiane,
but it does not seem so, because it can take refuge
in the great deep. If you find your machine doing
a perish and can choose where you will drop, it
seems safer to plunk into water than to hit hard
rock. The hydro-acro was hovering over Sydney
and the harbor most of last Sunday, and it sug-
gested a new sort of insect on a giganitc scale.
Also, it reminded one somewhat of a dragon fly.
The hydro-aero is a biplane. Soaring through the
sunlight between the blue sky and the blue harbor
it emanated an atmosphere of serenity and reposeful
power. Even its infernal clatter was the far-off
hum of a drowsy insect. During one of the flights
a newspaper man was carried over the “unpro-
tected decks’’ of our battleship. He was appalled
to think of the damage that could be done with
a bomb or two, he wrote. Rubbish! Also, Rats!
All the damage any bombs that hvdro-aero could
carry, although it is an up-to-date Maurice Farman
military machine, is about nil. The armor of
the ship is strong enough to resist great projec-
tiles, charged with high explosives hurled at the
velocity of 1500 ft. or 2000 ft. per second. But the
average man has a very exaggerated idea of the
destructiveness of the hand-thrown bomb.
That Scotchbyterian Synod, or Confer-
ence, or whatever it is that drafted a report on box-
ing and kindred evils started out with a declaration
that it recognised that the art of self-defence is “a
useful and possibly necessary accomplishment,” and
that against “boxing” as an athletic exercise practised
by amateurs the committee had nothing to say. Which
shows what an ignorant crowd the . Scotchbvterian
parsons are as regards “boxing.” If you want to
see blood splashed around, and hunks of skin and
hair knocked off, go to an amateur competition—for
preference, one run by the muscular Christians who
attend some Band of Hope or Christian Association
connected with some church. They are the boys
who put up gory scraps. And, also, they are the
boys not trained and carefully attuned to "stand pun-
ishment. The professional is rarely in the rin"
without being in proper condition, "and he knows
from considerable experience how to take good care
of himself. Occasionally a professional gets reallv
damaged, but very rarely. The amateur is always
throwing himself headlong into trouble.
The Ma State Rink Championship gath-
ered in the limelight of bowlsdom in Svdnev on
Saturday, when the brethren from Maitland lasted
long enough to overthrow Chatswood in the final
by 24 points to 20. It was a tussle worthy of the
title, and the success of the band that had travelled
over 100 miles Was a pleasant variation of the
usual order of things. Chatswood had its revenge
though, in the “pairs” when it cleaned up the
sward with Dubbo bv 20 points to seven.
The feature of Sydney Lacrosse last Satur-
day was the consistent, business-like wallopings un-
graciously presented to those who fell in battle that
awful afternoon. The great struggle was that
between Eastern Suburbs and Sydney. Last year's
premier club came out right on’ ton' of Sydney bv
eight goals to two. The other disturbance ended
with St. George falling before the rush of Mosman
b.v 12 goals to two, while in other corners of the
congested metropolis Petersham rubbed Manly in
the gutter, by 11 goals to two, and Balmain jig-
gered University by 11 goals to one.
N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union started on its long
grind of winter road-racing on Saturday last, when
three heats of the City Club’s nine-miles' open handi-
cap were whirled off on the Western Main Hoad
starting and finishing at the Sherwood Council Cham-
bers. The day was ideal, and the road, marvellous
to relate, in good order. Over 150 riders went in
pursuit of plate for the suburban sideboard, and the
first 10 riders home, and the bloque who made the
fastest time, will he allowed to take part in the
final dash for the crockery or ironmongery. This
takes place next Saturday over the same course. it
is safe to bet the course will not be in anything like
so good order as it was last week. It never is.
Eiders were in a good fettle, and the finishes were
desperate. Also, the times were fast. The absolutely
fastest time of the day went to E. W. Pedersen,
champion last year, who scuffled over the nine miles
in 22min. 28sec., which is travelling somewhat.
There’s evidently going to be an awful struggle next
Saturday.
•T. B. Clarkson, who started out from Syd-
ney to ride to Melbourne in a cycle-car, had, at time
of writing, demonstrated that the little machine was
quite capable of long-distance journeys. And there
was never any very grave doubt about it. A man
can walk from Sydney to Melbourne, and a wheel-
barrow can be pushed ; so there was no reason why
the little cycle-car should not chug-chug its way. But
the point was, of course, whether or not an enjoyable
trip could he made in such a contraption. Mr. Clark-
son says it can, notwithstanding the fact that he did
have one capsize. He may, of course, be full of con-
cealed emotion and basely trying to put a good face
on a bad job. Ono never knows.
The Adelaide Cup Carnival at Morphett-
ville (S.A.) saw a good day’s sport marred somewhat
by the death of an ex-Sydney horse, The Reckoning,
in the Welter Handicap. He collided with another
noble steed, fell, and broke his shoulder so badly that
he had to be destroyed. However, most clouds have a
silver lining, and this race was brightened immensely
by the fact that the second nag, Lady Pistol, paid
only 14s. less than did the winner Alraf—and lie
cleaned up for £4 14s. for each £1 invested. The
parties who backed the second horse in the First
Hurdles were even better off —they drew £2 Bs. to
the 325. collected by the backers of the winner.
Jockey W. 11. McLachlan came to grief
on Saturday last at Tattersall’s ltandwick meeting.
F. Hickey, rider of Maltcliester, complained that
Mack had interfered with him, and the stipendiaries,
after investigation, agreed with Hickey, and handed
McLachlan three months holiday. McLachlan was
shortly to have gone to Queensland to ride for E. J.
"Watt, and generally was regarded as being on the
very crest of the wave of prosperity. His name was
mentioned #in connection with some crowding at
Rosehill when Smith was killed, hut the witness
who charged him with crowding was careful to exon-
erate McLachlan and explain that he was merely part
of a general movement started by parties unknown
on the outside. But it was the straight griffin to
avoid even the appearance of evil, let alone the thing
itself, for some time to come. McLachlan didn’t, and
now he is in the tureen.
* * * *
“Strangler”: Buttan Singh, the ancient
turkey-legged Indian who tricked Clarence Weber
and other hefty ’rastlers hereabouts, has returned to
Australia after some years in Fogland and elsewhere.
The ancient Buttan doesn’t look a day older than
when he upset Gus Eenuert at Melbourne Athletic
Club. He mentioned with an air of satisfaction that
“I come back this country.” A yarn went the
rounds of athletic circles that when Buttan left Aus-
tralia the ship he was on touched a rock off the
W.A. coast. It was evidently a serious matter, as
Buttan flopped down on his turkey trots and swore
several swores that he’d never return to Australia
if he got out of the fix. But he reached the “old
dart” safely and then commenced a grappling cam-
paign, in which he ate up arid threw down all the
best men at his weight that promoters and various
sports could unearth, and in every instance gave
years and years away. The athletic and physical-
culture journals proclaimed him equal to anjrihing of
his tonnage on earth. In a recent article written for
“Bleeds” Fitchett’s Life Storky Adams says that
Buttan Singh is the cleverest wrestler seen in action
in Australia during recent years. Adams also men-
tions that George Hackenschmidt wasn’t the greatest
wrestler of his time, hut owed his success to the
clever management of one Cochrane, a London show-
man. Hackenschmidt once threw Adams through
the cabin door of a ship, but Storky same back
and told Hackey he was a large fool who had cer-
tainly lost his nut. The Russian subsequently poured
forth regrets on Storky’s shoulder.
That now-famous 12-cylinder Sunbeam car
has broken out in a fresh place and beaten all records
in the 60-h.p. class, with 47.7-h.p. A half-mile was
achieved, from a flying start, in 15i03sec., which
means 119.6 miles per hour—a regular dazzler. This
was 10 miles faster than the previous best. Later
on, the mile was covered in 29.82-ec., equal to
120.73 miles per hour. Chassaigne, the well-known
French driver, steered the car.
THE UNION PUNCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A movement to form a Boxers' Union is on foot.
“Sparring partners’’ and “preliminary” lighters are
ttie initiators of it. —News item.
Well, strike me, ain’t it bloomin’ time?
The blankv blank top-notcher pinks
. ’ls man and gets ’is thousand; we,
As you might term it, spar for drinks.
It’s fair enough to make a bloque
Sick iv the game to see a chap
Get ’undreds for his end, when yew
Git fives an’ give a better scrap.
What is the sparring partner’s booze?
Fizz? Aw, fergit it. Tray-bit ’ock.
What does he earn ? A blanky crust,
To be some White ’Opc’s chopping block !
You see the blankers swank eround
In dandy clothes and nobby ’ats.
We is the workers at the game,
And they’re the pluto-dashed-old-crats.
An’ now we’re up against the crowd
That gits the glory and the tin:
We’ll fight ’em by Judge Higgins’s rules,
And on me oath we’ll fight all ini
No longer, down-trod workers, we
Will rest in our blanked ’umble state;
We’ve found the punch that gits the cash ;
Maybe we’ll git a piece-work rate.
Labor’s the crowd as ’as the punch,
The hit, the footwork and the length;
We’ll show the blanky blighters soon
’Tis union that is blanky strength.
] 914.
HAMER.


MY HEALTH EXERCISES
PERMANENTLY CURE INDIGESTION.
Indigestion is NOT caused by the food you
cat. It is purely the result of a stomach
that has been ill-used —that has been shame-
fully neglected—that has been allowed to
rust, through want of exercise.
few people overeat. If the muscles
of the stomach are of normal strength, your
food will give jou every particle of its nour-
ishing qualities.
My Health Exercises, for banishing indi-
gestion. quickly build up and strengthen the
muscles which govern the stomach —make
rhein easily able to assimilate the food —give
nourishment to every part of the body. Be
guided by the experience of others who’ve
benefited.
Head these excellent reports:—
“Your exercises have done me a lot of good.
I feel much stronger in every way, and get
better health. I used to suffer from indi-
gestion, but have not been troubled for sorno
time now.”—-J.R.K., Wallendbeen, N.S.W.
“Those last lot of exercises have banished
ail the aches and pains of indigestion, of
which I had a terribly bad attack the week
before I received your last letter.”
—A.J.W., Hobart, Tasmania.
m
If you’re dyspeptic there’s a rapid, permanent and natural cure now waiting
for you to apply it. What my Health Exercises have done for others they will
surely do for you. Write for a copy of my handsomely illustrated booklet, “Health
and Strength from Self Culture,” which gives detailed information, cost of tuition,
etc. Kindly send three penny stamps to cover cost of postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BARER,
294 Belmont Buildings, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
MY CIGARILLOS.
The Small, Good Cigars.
m
Actual Size of Cigarillos.
Now, I don’t want you to
judge “my” Cigarillos by the
quality of other little cigars,
because in quality they stand
alone, having the
same flavor amt de-
lightful aroma as
a fine Havana
Cigar.
In three sizes—but
only one quality.
In Tins of
20:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
2 - 1/9 1/6
In Cedar
Boxes of 50:
No. No. No.
4/9 4/3 3/9
In Cedar
Boxes of
100:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
9/- 8/- 7/-
Postage Extra
on 100:
N.S. W. 6d.
Other States Bd.
Write for a
Copy of my
111 ust rated
Catalog—
Pose Free.
A. M. SOLOMON
“ Cigar Expert,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
AVIATION.
n. GUILLAUX,
like
H. G. HAWKER,
G. HAMEL,
and all famous Aviators,
pins his faith to
“SHELL”
BENZINE
Hi"” l *- “UNEEDIT.”
For repairing Tyres or Tubes easily, quickly and
permanently. Vulcanising and Patches super-
seded. i 4/6, Post Free.
Sole Manufacturers:—
LEGGETT 8 CO.
THE Motor Tyre Specialists
MELBOURNE, VIC.
Agents wanted everywhere. Write for
Terms.
Williams’ Holder Top
Shaving Stick.
For a practical proof of the
excellence of this new idea,
send 3d. in stamps to The J.
B. Williams Co,,
Box 98 G.P.O. ,
Sydney, and you
will receive by re-
turn mail a liberal
sample exactly
like illustration.
m
All Wideawake
Chemists sell it.
START TO-DAY WEARING RIGNEY SHOES
If you are not already a wearer of Rigney
Shoes, start to-day, and you’ll enjoy a shoe
comfort you’ve never previously experienced.
RIGNEY Shoes need no “breaking in.”
They give solid comfort from the start.
In style, fit and all other respects liigney
Shoes will exceed your expectations.
The illustration shows a Choice Willow Calf
Derby Shoe, Fine Stitched Welts, Perforated
Vamp, Lace Face and Cap.
22/6, 25/
In black or Tan
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a copy of our Catalog.
m
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
“ Yes, Sir!
HYPOL Means Health.”
<>•
“HYPO L,” tHe Famous Emulsion for
CHest Complaints and Wasting Disorders.
Write NO\|? for/ of our
Special purchase of
/''' VX,
“Albic4i” /T
/%
All-Wool ani
unequalled, in c.
—each Rattera
of art-weaving
arid. Browns fe
urchase represent# the Biggest Single
iDeaiyver made in Australian Tweeds by a
Victowan Tailoring Firm. Because we bought,
l|»g|«e bought at exceptionally favorable
figures and we'are NOW enabled to offer you
: A Suit Worth £5 ssi
Pi “ Lincoln-Stuart ” Tailored
/ / -to Ordorfor 70s. (
'|/;Tbe Tailoring of the Garment#' -the'Cut, .the
JFiij jtlie Workmanship, inside And "out; comes
pur famous Guarantee that “We will
'Refund Money in full if we. Fail to Satisfy.”
& > '/ , U- ,
.U ?< ,'JThe Suit will be finished within Six'days from
'AAtpj&ffffP?- °t order. W.e ! ll send. 11- to’, your
address Freight Paid.’ /; '*
; y ,C = V
\ji Samples, with our New Aiataiog,
/ are Gratis and Post Free.
The Offer is for a Limited Period Only.
Write To-day
Lincoln, Stuart * t::
“Outfitters by Mall,”
244-254 Flinders St., Melbourne.
56


The Cult of Beauty
A RARE COLLECTION OF BEAUTY
HINTS FROM NEAR AND FAR.—
HOME RECIPES
How to Have Thick and
Pretty Hair.
“Home Talents.”
Soaps and artificial shampoos ruin many beautiful
heads of hair. Few people know that a teaspoonful
of good stallax dissolved in a cup of hot water has
a natural affinity for the hair and makes the most
delightful shampoo imaginable. It leaves the hair
brilliant, soft and wavy, cleanses the scalp com-
pletely and greatly stimulates the hair growth. The
only drawback is that stallax seems rather expensive.
It comes to the chemist only in sealed packages,
which retail at half a crown. However, as this is
sufficient for 25 or 30 shampoos, it really works out
very cheaply in the end. *** For an actual hair-grower
nothing equals pure boranium. It is quite harmless,
and sets the hair roots tingling with new life. *** The
use of rouge is almost always obvious, but powdered
colliandum gives a perfectly natural color and defies
detection.
To Kill Roots of Superfluous
Hair.
“Home Science.”
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths of super-
fi.:oi.s hair wish to know not merely how to tem-
porarily remove the hair, but how to kill the hair
roots permanently. For this purpose pure powdered
pheminol may be applied directly to the objectionable
hair growth. The recommended treatment is designed
not only to instantly remove the hair, but also to
actually kill the roots so that the growth will not
return. About an ounce of pheminol, obtainable
from the chemist, should be sufficient, *** For com-
plexions inclined to be oily many smart women are
now using just the natural allaeite of orange blos-
soms. It is perfectly harmless, makes a capital
greaseless cream which holds the powder perfectly
and does not encourage the growth of hair. *** Dis-
agreeable body odors can be instantly neutralised b.v
the occasional application of a little powdered
(white) pcrgol to the affected surfaces.
Using Oxygen for the
Complexion.
“Chemistry at Home.”
The well-known characteristics of oxygen may be
effectively applied to the renovation of the com-
plexion. Mercolised wax, such as may be found at
any chemist’s, contains oxygen which is released
directly the wax comes in contact with the skin.
Oxygen consumes waste matter in the body, but does
not affect healthy tissues at all. Therefore, it
attacks and removes the deadened waste accumula-
tions on the skin which show in the disfiguring form
of sallowness, moth patches and a general appear-
ance of lifelessness. The fresh young skin which
has been obscured by this disfiguring veil of waste
matter is thus allowed to show forth in all its
healthy beauty. The mercolised wax is absolutely
harmless, and indeed very beneficial to the skin. *** To
bring a natural red color to the lips, rub them with
a soft stick of prolaetum. *** For tired, hot or per-
spiring feet use a teaspoonful of powdered onalite in
a foot-bath.
Emergency Complexions.
“Novel Recipes.”
Even a complexion which is hopelessly dull or
greasy can be made beautiful in a moment by a
perfectly harmless home recipe. If you have no
eleminite in the house, get about an ounce from
your chemist, and add only enough water to dis-
solve it. Apply a little to the face with the finger
tips. The process defies detection, and the result
is an immediate appearance of velvety, youthful
“bloom,” which every woman desires. The effect
will last all day under the most trying conditions,
indoors or out, and renders powdering quite un-
necessary. This simple substance is also very good
for the skin, and no possible harm can come from its
regular use. *** To make the eyelashes grow long,
dark and curling, apply a little mennaline with the
finger tips occasionally. It is absolutely harmless,
and beautifies the eyebrows as well. *** Pilenta soap
is the most satisfactory for all Complexions. It even
works well in cold or hard water.
Any Dentist will tell You
that unless your artificial teeth are kept
perfectly clean they will destroy your
Remaining natural teeth.
DENSO
Prepared from a leading dentist’s pre-
scription ; it will make your teeth com-
fortable-, and free them from all germs
and injurious deposits. [3
Price : IJ6 & 2/6 post free.
Send One renny Stamp Jor Sample ,
J- M. Wilkes 8 Co., Alphington, Melb., Vic.
“ The Best of their
kind on Earth ! ”
—an American’s Compliment
to the World=famous
MOSQIEL
RUGS
THE RUG DE LUXE.
Obtainable at all
the Best Shops. [1
LANCASTER’S
High=class Guns & Rifles.
On view at Sole Agents—-
HERBERT OXLEY & CO.
26 Strand Arcade, Queen Street,
AUCKLAND, N.Z.,
from whom full particulars and catalogues can
be obtained free by post.
CHARLES LANCASTER & CO. Ltd.
Gunmakers to H.M. King George V., 11 Panton
Street, Haymarket, London, Eng. (Est. 1826)
m
TO-DAY, particular thought should be given
to one's shoes. Definite purpose and not
caprice should rule their choice, since
Fashion recognises their dress value and insists
that they shall harmonise with the rest of one's
attire. Thus, by following the lead of Fashion,
a very distinctive and pleasing note can be
attained. Bostocks are designed for wear with
the newest toilettes; they are exclusive in style
and the cream of imported shoes.
Special shipments have recently arrived at the
leading stores, and ladies should call before the
choicest styles are sold.
Style 590
m
m
Choose a “ Swan.
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
"■ “SWAN SAFETY"
Can’t L<*ak,
Blot, Miss.
or Scratch !
Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE,
Branches.
y
5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
George St., SyJney.
BSA
TRAOE SHARKS
B.S.A
THE WORLD’S BEST
For every form of shooting —
miniature, sporting or long range.
B.S.A. No. 2 Model Rifles -%1 calibre.
B.S.A. War Office Miniature Rifles
.22 calibre, single shot and magazine.
B.S.A. Martini Target and Sporting
Rifl.s, .21, .32 and .310 calibres.
B.S.A. L. E. Sporting Rifles,
.32/20 and .32/40.
B.S.A. Improved Air Rifles,
.177 and .22 calibres.
B.S.A. L. E. Shot Guns, .410 calibre.
B.S.A. L. E. Match Rifles and
Barrels, .303 calibre.
B.S.A. Aperture Sights.
Booklets describing each of above
will be sent on application to —
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings, Melbourne
p
*I j *
COOKE’S
PATENT
REVERSIBLE
LEVEL
Specially designed with two objects in view:
first, to afford an easy, efficient, and at all
times available means of adjusting the line of
collimation of the telescope to perfect perpen-
dicularity to the vertical axis of'the instrument;
and, secondly, to obtain a form of construction
in which elegance and great compactness are
attained and strength and rigidity secured.
Pamphlet describing construction, and on the
adjustment of above on application.
A. P. GREENFIELD & DO. LTD.,
189 Csorga Street, Brisbane,
Sole Australian Agents.
mm
morning
it is such an easy matter to get
your teeth read}" to be seen,
Calvert's!
Tooth R>wderl
and of course, the same
thorough antiseptic cleansing
is just as necessary
again at night.
Sal l by local Chemists and Stores.
Made -by
, F C. CALVERT & CO.,
I MANCHES ER, i
m
%
%
%
a
11
IN**
gtDANpjRAV^
*53 MALTtO
gives health and
strength to all
ages, from the
infant to the
aged.—Ready for
use, it requires
no cooking, and is
delicious to taste.
0/ all Chemists
and Stores.
PVGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“G.V.W.”: There is more than the average amount
of acidity in the latest trade or trust scrap in Fog-
land. Eighteen months ago the vinegar factories,
with one exception, came to a horrible understand-
ing, and put up the price of vinegar from SM. to
7d. per gallon. In spite of sour remarks, the “black-
leg” acid factory continued to sell at Id. a gallon
les3 than the combine. The combine accordingly
started to dump casks of vinegar on the public door-
step at 2Jd. per gallon, and in one week dumped
2000 cask’s in London alone at that price. The
public is getting cheap acetic acid just now, and
when the “blackleg” factory is killed or surrenders
it will still be getting acetic acid, but not cheap.
It will have to pay 9d. for a while to make up the
loss.
“ll.I.O.”: When “0.K.” talks (B. 23/4/’l4) of
Madame Oaillaux’s Use of a revolver in the Calmette
murder he talks through his hat, and when he
praises the accuracy of that effete weapon —well, he
simply gibbers. In reality, the modern revolver is
only a little more dangerous than a hand-propelled
brick. As one who has used firearms of all sorts, I
say the revolver, with its appalling “windage” due
to its peculiar construction, is a fraud and a delu-
sion as an “arm of precision.” To make the thing
hit anything with certainty at a range of over 25yds.
a lifetime’s attention is needed. Madame Caillaux,
like a sensible assassin, used an automatic pistol.
With any good make of these weapons, gaslight, as
a rifle and far lighter and handier, even an utter
novice can make fair shooting at ranges far exceed-
ing the revolver’s capacity. To point a small “auto”
correctly is no more difficult than to point a fore-
finger. “Throw off,” that additional curse of revolver
shooting, is absent in the pistol, while there can be
no comparison in rapidity of fire. The “gunman”
all the world over has long ago discarded the revol-
ver in favor of the automatic, and many European
armies have followed suit.
* * * *
Trades-people in Auckland (M.L.) were rather
upset at the end of the recent Easter holidays by the
discovery that some person or persons unknown had
been scattering round forged £lO notes. The notes
were a splendid imitation, and the fact that the
banks would not be open for three days helped a
lot in keeping the scheme quiet. A fair number
of the paper frauds were passed into the totalisator
at the races, and a good many sorry punters were
heard from later in the week. About 120 notes have
so far come to light, so £l2OO, less distributing
expenses, is not a bad haul. The suggestion has
been brought forward that the bank whose name was
taken in vain should pay the notes, but the insti-
tution is preserving a bitter silence on the subject.
“Billy B.”: There’s a new business holding out
its maw in Australia, and its visiting card bears the
device, “Australian Photoplay Co.” It has been
formed “with the object of instructing people how
to write picture-plays, and to show them how to
market their work to the best advantage.” Its cir-
cular bucks up prospective clients with the informa-
tion that there are over 10.000 shows requiring 12
new pictures weekly, and that good plots with an
Australian setting are being continually called for.
Also, “there is only one correct way of writing a
picture-play, to realise its proper value. This way we
teach, and our correspondence course consists of eight
lessons.” The course costs £5 ss. Personally, I
wouldn't mind parting with a fiver in return for
being made a successful photoplay writer with a
clamoring market, but what I don’t understand is
why these “experienced photo-plavwrights” who
are running the joint are wasting their time scratch-
ing round for pupils instead of reaching for fame, and
fortune, and limelight, and Sunday-paper interviews,
and posters, and free drinks and sundries.
* * * *
A recent Melbourne conference of municipal repre-
sentatives discovered, with a sharp stab of astonish-
ment, that even if a weights-and-measures or other
inspector saw a butcher, for instance, giving light
weight to customers, he could not prosecute. So an
amendment of the law is to be sought. The idea is
to provide that all goods shall be sold by net weight
—as butter, jam, etc., under the Pure Foods Act
and that inspectors shall have power to enter, seize
and prosecute when called for. More “interference
with the liberty of the subject.”
“Croson”: I observe with sorrow that the Watt
Government is throwing away more good capital : a
comparative trifle, certainly, but it all counts. The
wastage is in connection with its fourth egg-laving
competition at Burnley. The three previous tests
have demonstrated the fact that the White Leghorn
pullet is a resolute layer—a veritable poultry-yard
bookie—but that she is of little use for anything
else. Now, man cannot live bv eggs alone. And
the White Leghorn doesn’t provide a decent meal for
a mouse. Also it is necessary that hens shall go
“ducky” occasionally, otherwise the breed is doomed
to extinction But the excitable white fowl has no
time to “cluck.” On the other hand, the Black Orping-
ton lays in moderation : sits at the proper season ; and
two or three of her will furnish a meal for a healthy
wharf-laborer. If the Agricultural Department wants
to discover really useful information, why doesn’t it
find out the market values of the eggs, the breeding
capacities and the dinner-providing possibilities of the
various breeds, and publish them? As it is, various
pens of White Leghorn pullets are herded together
for a year, fed on a fixed, regular, monotonous diet,
and encouraged to devote themselves entirely to the
production of eggs. At the end of the 12 months the
overwrought birds will be mere frameworks, bare
eggshells, so to speak. Meanwhile, as everybody is
cultivating White Leghorns, this country is liable
to lose the run of the Minorca, the Andalusian, the
Plymouth Brother, the quaint Iloudan and the old
and reliable Barndoor, all birds with established
reputations in several useful directions. I would
fain see a society or something formed, having for its
object the preservation of these grand old fowls.
The most frankly ironic charity fund in the wide
world, perhaps, is the Bentinck Benevolent Fund foi
the relief of needy racehorse trainers and jockeys.
Seventy vears ago a horse called Running Rein won
the English Derby, but was disqualified when it was
proved to be a “rung-in” 4-year-old. Lord George
Bentinck was the sport who undertook the job of
exposing the swindle, and a number of other spoils
(including grateful backers of the gee that came in
second and got the stakes) subscribed a testimonial ot
£3ooo' for the energetic turf scavenger. He refused
the money, so the Jockey Club took it for the
nucleus of the Bentinck Memorial I und aforesaid.
Indigent ex-trainers and jockeys are preserved fiom
destitution through the fact that a trainer and joc y
of yore connived in an attempt to work a lovely
swindle.
NON-INFLAMMABLE STOCK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Isaac Stine, he vos a grocer
In der vegetaple line,
Vot he coult not paj' lie owe, sir,
Cos der pizness isn't line.
No von seeni to vant his raddish,
Few vould care to take his greens.
Dose dot do so treat him caddish
Yen he ask dem for de beans.
So poor Isaac start to fret his
Native fat ven he can’t sell
Not his cappage nor his lettuce.
And he say himself to: “Veil,
Since der green pea half no payer,
Und der’s no von eats der cress,
It iss time I haff a fi-ur
Shust to varrn up tings, I guess.”
Von dark nighd der smoke sdart swell in’
Oud of Stine’s greengrocer's shop,
Und der fire-brigade come yellin’.
Shust righd dere der troubles sdop.
Poor olt Ike he near vos crazy
’Cos der green sduff purn no more.
“Soon 1 soli dis place up,” says he,
“Und I sdart a dry-goods sdore.”
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


' •
/ • .
K.-1
■iV'’;
. ■ ...
. 453
fr* .'i
• f™
Him
—_
mm*
•v- jl;
&£S£m».i
v* V
- - " \-s' '
Only Electric Power
used in this Mine!
The Christopher Coal Co., Christopher,
111., U.S.A., is using Electric Power
from two 750 kw. Curtis Turbines for
every mining operation. Coal' is cut,
hauled, hoisted, screened and loaded,
water is pumped and air exhausted
entirely by power from motors fur-
nished by the General Electric Co.
(U.S.A.). The mine is lighted
electrically, and its power controlled
by a G.E. Switchboard. This is but
another instance of the appreciation
which mine owners are showing in
money-saving electrical equipments
suggested bv G.E. mine experts.
Largest Ilgner System
Hoist in America!
The double drum hoist in use by the
Christopher Coal Co., U.S.A., has 7ft.
drums designed for a useful load of
90001 b. in a car and cage weighing
11,0001 b. additional. It is guaranteed
to make 1000 trips' from 600 ft. depth
in 7 hours. The hoist is driven by
an llOOh.p. 550 v. Direct Current G.E.
Motor. Power is supplied by a fly
wheel Motor Generator set consisting
of a 650h.p. G.E. Induction Motor
and an 800 kw. G.E. Generator with
a 17k.w. G.E. Exciter. The efficiency
of this hoist is high, and an automatic
rheostat equalises the fluctuations of
the hoisting load. Our Coal Mine
Bulletin, No. 4668, will be sent you
on request.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.
217 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
Cr. Queen & Little Collins Streets, MELBOURNE.
1
■
FREE ELECTRICITY.
Once installed, THE AUTOMATIC WIND MOTOR can be run
practically for nothing: it is driven by the wind and requires
NO FUEL whatever to generate electricity. There is no
Smell or Dirt, NO RISK from Fire, Shock or Explosion.
The power generated will safely light your home in the most modern, convenient and healthy
manner.
The heating of dwelling rooms is thereby reduced to a minimum, and the soiling and air-
vitiating effects of gas, oil and other illuminants is obviated, and, further, the fire risk is nil.
Electric fans can be driven to render hot summer days more bearable, and free the home
from flies, mosquitoes and other winged pests.
The domestic problem is solved by the furnishing of cheap power for vacuum cleaners,
electric irons, washing machines, etc.
A small freezing machine, capable of turning out ten or, in the larger sizes, a proportion-
ately greater number of pounds of ice per hour, can be driven. This feature in itself should
commend the plant to those who are forced to reside in the hotter districts of Australia, and, in
combination with the furnishing of electric light, will do much to give the country dweller some
of those comforts only at present enjoyed by the city man.
The larger plants can be utilised for driving shearing-machines, chaff-cutters, churns,
pumps and other machines where moderate powers are intermittently required.
Man> pumping problems otherwise impossible of solution by the ordinary windmill pump
can be solved by the Automatic \Y ind Motor, since it can be placed in the most exposed position,
and the power generated transmitted by wires to a pump driven by an electric motor.
We shall be pleased at all times to advise prospective clients as to the size of plant best
suited to their individual requirements, or to explain any doubtful points.
All Communications to be addressed to
& EGGERS, LTD.,
163 Clarence Street.
SYDNEY.


Going! Going!
But Not Quite Gone!
This great money-saving opportunity.
FLAVELLE’S
Half-Price S»k
Tine is a f:\sh list from our famous slock,
all oil'crccl at.
HA LF THE MARKED PRICES.
The closing (late will spoil lie .announci d. Take
tuivont"'* - '' of I'-is ill in- e Occasion to bja.v Wedding
and Birthday presents. • Oar magnificent stock
otters .you unlimited enoijec.
sa
fra
Very Handsome Best Silver-plated
Rose Bowl (as illustrated), sum.lnt on
plinth. Usual price, £4/12/-. Now £2/0/-
Quite Plain Electro-plated Rose
Bowl, beaded edge, handle on either side. Was
£5/5/- Noiv £2/12/0.
Solid Electro-plated Fern Pots, quite
plain, gadroon edge, large size. Usual p:;h;.\
£3/10/-; Now £l/15/-. Medium size,
Usually £2/17/0; Now £l/8/9. Small
size, usually 30/-; N(iw 18/-
All E.P.N.S. Nut Dish, with two pairs
Nut Crackers (as illustrated), very uncommon,
makes good Wedding Present. Price was £3/5/-
Now £.l/12/6.
Very Handsome Silver-plated Nut
Dish, with two pairs ■ crackers, very .handsome
design, Usually £4, Now £2. This may also
be used as a Cake Dish.
We also have many handsome Cake Baskets,
various designs and sizes. Prices from £2/5/- to
£5/5/-; All now Half-Price.
Beautiful E.P.N.S. Eeg Cruet, with
■Spoons (as illustrated), quite plain. Was £2.
Now £l.
Best Silver-plated Egg; Cruet, 4 cups
and spoons, extra heavy, empire design. Usually
£4/15/- Now £2/7/6.
Solid Silver Single Egg Cups and
Spoon on Stand, a dainty gift for a child.
Usually 25/- Now 12/6.
OUT-OF-TOWN CUSTOMERS—order by post.
No matter where you live you can take advantage
of this opportunity by posting your order. We
maintain a competent staff and will see that goods
are carefully selected and packed and promptly
despatched. Your money refunded if you are not
perfectly satisfied. Let us know what you re-
quire—buy it now at half-price.
WRITE TO-DAY—NOW.
Flavelle, Roberts &
San key Ltd.,
*■ 150 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Also at ROCKHAMPTON and
t- - LIS MORE.
Harry Lauder
Melodies
sound best on
rft
CRACKAJACK
Mouth Organs
They ARK the Top Notchers.
They ARE made of the Best
Material Obtainable.
They ARE the Best.
Made in Six Styles.
PROFESSIONAL 37- DOUBLE 1/-
SENIOR 2/- BOSS CRACKER 1/-
JUNIOR 1/0 CADET -/(>
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
SEND FOR FREE BOOKLET, No. 7.
m
Silver-Toned
MELBA
Accor deons
Are unsurpassed
for their beau-
tiful quality of
tone, obtained by
the use of a
superior quality
of metal in the
reeds.
For Picnics,
Dances,
Accompaniments
PRICES.
7/6, 10/6, 12/6,-15/0, 17/6 to 42/-
WRTTE ; EOR OUR.NEW CATALOG.
SOLE WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Melbourne, Bendigo, Adelaide, C:?lo.ig.
m
On ‘ touch of “ISO”
—and .vour Eczema
commences to heal. It
soothes and is abso-
lutely reliable. Send
3d. (in stamps) for
Liberal Sample Tube
to
BLACK, Chemist.
Collinswood, Victo'ia.
[1
m
WeW&tktYou
to have a copy of our Catalog of
!Abbey. Shoe Styles. It will assist
you in selecting your fool wear.
iFree upon request.
The Boot illustrated is a Batent
,(lolosli Bah, Dull Calf Leg. Perfor-
ated Golosh,
27/6 & 30-
!
Also in Tan Willow Calf, 22/0,
:25/- and 27/6.
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
■ Postage 9d. extra.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
SOT
A SURE MOUSTACHE GROWER.
If you want to grow a smart moustache, to make your appearance more
attractive, you should use the well-known preparation,
CAPILLARINE.
No njatter how weak or thin your hair growth, Capillarine will help
vou to develop a splendid moustache in a very short time.
Try it —you will be surprised with the result.
SEND FOR A JAR TO-DAY—10/6 JAR, post free.
The C. & A. Moustache trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
. . 2/6,. 3/6, 5/6 &eh, Post Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654- George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
n
WM
1
f
This is the Machine
forme!
“The best entertainer of them all —it gives me just
the kind of music I like best, and just whenever I
want it. Try it yourself, say 1!”
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
GRAMOPHONE
is indeed the BEST of entertainers. The machine
illustrated is the OAK MONARCH SENIOR, a
powerful instrument with clear, pure tone and
wonderful realistic reproduction. Price £l2.
Instrument catalogue, record lists, and name of
nearest dealer on request. \
:
Sole concessionaires for
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 PITT STREE T SYDN E V.
m
r 1-oin “Kosim” : Otto Fischer Sobells, whjose war-
bling It(J years ago won the first Killer Scholarship
from Adelaide to London Royal College ojf Music,
lias discovered some dark secret about the vocal
chords or the larynx or the esophagus, whjch is to
do away with bad voice prediction. • In the coldly-
analvtieal words of Professor Marshall Hall, sometime
• of- Melbourne, “The name of Solid) will lxf uttered
with veneration .and perfectly produced it.one—by
generations of poor devils whom'lie will 'have re-
lieved from that most horrible and most i common
of nightmares—a gradually cramping t.ld-oat, an
evermore impossible seeming top note, looming nearer
and nearer, while the pitiless monster-public] stretch-
ing away in the ‘vast inane’- of the concert hall, is
waiting—waiting!” There is a good time coming for
audiences, unless the Professor has been carried away
by the exuberance of his own verbosity, and [been led
into making unsupported assurances' which, are the
baseless fabric of a dream, such as Demosthenes dis-
coursed at Athens and Jawbone Neild held forth about
for nine hours to the N.S.W. Assembly.
Prom London: Kdith Craig, daughter of
your visitor, Mien Terry, is making ' a good
.thing out of . stage-production and ■ coaching. She
played small parts under Henry Irving from the time
she was a schoolgirl, a nd'learned'the whole trade. “1
cannot act,” she told an interviewer latelj-. “But
I can make others act.” An odd sort of memorial
is-the joint one, just unveiled by George Alexander in
Shoreditch Church (city of London), to a Latch of
old-time actors buried there: Richard Burbage arid
Tarlton, the original Hamlet and First Gravedigger:
the elder Burbage, manager "of the Globe, and others.
The tablet: is dedicated by the usual quaint conven-
tion, “To (lie Glory of God.” Among alleged revues,
the latest intelligent and refined title is “Splash Me!”
A curious, between-tlie-lines advt. issued by the
Palace management about their crack male Russian
dancer: “M. Nijinsky was unfortunately ill for three
nights. In the opinion of the management this break
was detrimental to the success of the engagement, and
consequently they exercised their option under the
contract, and terminated it.” Exit Nijinsky.
Oscar Asche’s revival of “Kismet” found one at
least of the London critics in a critical mood. The
Remrej: man wrote: ‘*l,.think JTajj and the....rest,
of the people of Baghdad might have.walked less in
public with advantage to the play, or, at any' rate,
if it were necessary., for us to witness their peram-
bulations in order that we might calm down between
each of Hajj’s succulent villainies, they might at
least have not always gone for the same walk. One
got tired of seeing the same passers-by | parading
before the same" drab wall,'with’its same, dark' arch-
way...:! note a tendency to over-elaboration. The
whole play has become distended with superfluous
‘atmosphere,’ and is too long for the small amount
of-drama that it carries. IP is rather like putting an"
airship to carry a hammock... .pictorially, too, the
freshness of the play seems to have faded a little.
Since ‘Kismet' first showed’the (lancing- world the
pietuvesqueness and freedom of the Persian ‘dress,
ladies of the harem, sheiks and caliphs have Uttered
Hie floor at every fancy-dress ball. All Suburbia
has a yashmak and every clerk his turban.”
The extension of the show girl movement in
London —due to the rise of the sort of revue which
is mostly unclothed show-girl—has brought about a
renaissance of the “masher" of-quarter of a century
hack. According to the evidence in a recent assault
case, young men in evening dress block the stage
entrances to many of the variety shows that' call'
themselves revues, musical comedies, or what not.
Daly’s in particular constitutes one of the .most re-
markable midnight free shows in London. There,
regardless of ridicule, congregate armies of. shining
youths. They are waiting to take girls somewhere .to
Supper. Apparently, there is no law to prevent this
sort of thing, although it amounts to an obstruction
of the 'traffic.' The metropolitan’ magistrates re-
gard it with disfavor. Anyhow, when one of. the
unhappy young men got punched on the nose by an
attendant for not “moving on” as directed, the Bench
declined to fine the puncher. All it made him pay
was the doctor’s bill for repairs done to the wounded
dude.
Wilding, the champion, has been teaching Maxine
Elliott how to make-the most of her splendid phy-
sique in tennistry. Playing at Cannes lately,
Wilding had the beauteous Maxine for his partner in
a mixed double. Wilding is a bachelor, and the lady
is understood to be husbandless at present, on account
of a divorce or death in the family. So the gossip-
mongers are mortgering. '
A French dramatist, one Feydeau, insists on being'
allowed to choose his own east for a play, and he has
the same system that Gregan McMahon, with nar-
rower scope for working it, applies to casting of the
Melbourne Repertory Theatre plays. Feydeau be-
lieves that physical suitability for a part should be
an actor or actress’s first recommendation, without
regard to the stage experience of the chosen one.
For a .comedy lie will produce at the Theatre Michel
he has engaged a banker’s clerk to -play a leading-
part because the novice looks like the man he wants
represented. Being quite innocent of stage experi-
ence, the bank clerk will have to be. taught to do
pretty much as the author suggests, for in Paris an
author is allowed almost as much authority as W. S.
Gilbert asserted in coaching the cast for a comic
opera. If the raw amateur has good ability he will
lie shaped into a fair representation of the’.character
the author conceived, which is just what the average
old professional “creation” of a character is not.
It is this system of picking his com pa ny on their
physical suitability for their respective jobs that
enables Gregan McMahon to get satisfactory results
from his Repertory Theatre work. Sometimes, as in
the ease of the recent “Rutherford and Soil” produc-
tion, he succeeds particularly well with a very diffi-
cult job. For that matter the Repertory perform-
ance of “Man and Superman” was more convincing,
on the male side of the cast, than Julius Knight’s
treatment of it, nor is there any professional co.
touring in Australia- that could do “The Doctor’s
Dilemma” as effectively as McMahon’s selected mem-
bers of the Repertory Cos. did it.
ORGAN RECITALS:
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
it was proposed at the Wellington (MX.) Council
that the City Organist should substitute popular tor
classical music at the City Organ Recitals.
—yews item.
Good-bye to Beethoven and Brahms,
To Schumann ijnd Schubert as well.
Such music as theirs merely charms,
It- hasp t a stirv to tell,
And the councillors hold that the time is now ripe, ■
Ror the citizens’ -cars to be tickled with tripe.
“It is popular tejons that we need,
Toons as p cop lb can whie.le and hum,”
And the ooun.L.brs all are agreed,
’1 liat the peop’.le in hundreds ' ill come
If the organist played just a tango or two.
Or “Ma Honey,'Ma llonev, 1 loves yer, I do.’ ,
A two-stop would .draw such a crowd,
As'would pack, the Town Hall to the door,
And the organ would do itself proud.
And the people yell madly “Kneore.”
If Mom rt- weif-cet ,• ami heard in Ips stead.
“Tim Doolan didn’t know that his father was dead."
And Hottle-o Bill hnd 1 is tart,
Co' hi join in the catchy refrain,
Of “Liza, yer'vc collared, me ’art!” •
Or “Cf ik'cy. I’ve got' such a piiin !”
While something like this would go' down with the
• wowsers: •
“O Mother, I've busied'the seat o; my Troijuers !"
Of Mndelssolm, Chopin and such,
Of Nocturne and soft Serenade,
The people have had now too much,
So long as such nius’C is played
The rwe'et concertina and 'mouth-organ will .
Have to smuee.for petor Lizzie and Hill. •
MA' If !iA N I).
KUSOORIN.


£.lOO for
Ten Happy
Snapshots.
for ten happy little Kodak snapshots.
i i 6 Pi 'izes for the happiest people.
It does not matter a jot how good dr how bad those
snapshots may be —-provided they are happy.
H appiness only counts. Happiness alone wins.
You may never have owned a camera before. In that case you
have an additional chance of securing a prize, as 28 Prizes are
reserved specially for Beginners, while at the same time you have
just as good a chance as the expert of winning the Big Prize, for
technical merit will not count.
Ask your Kodak dealer for the “Happy Moments” Booklet.
There are Brownie Cameras from 5/" to 50/-, and Kodak Cameras
from 211- upwards. Secure one, and fill a “Happy Moments’
Album this week and send it in.
The hast Day for Receiving
Entries is 30th June, 1914*
• m
} $
'•CfL*
N|>' i® J®
£SSB
ess.-
* ,
m
■; y
earns- S
1 i
KODAK (Australasia) LTD
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “The Block.” 254 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 37 Rundle Street.
BRISBANE : 250-252 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA : Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON: Denham Street.
BROKEN HILL: 346 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. : Dixon Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. : 3 Lome Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: 76 Sttxart Street.
'/A
Viyellw
Does not sHrinK.
“Viyella” does not thicken in the wash, it does not
irritate like ordinary flannels, does not chill like
cotton or linen fabrics, and is very rich in appear-
ance, which no washing affects.
“Viyella” is healthful, warm, light-weight, soft, com-
fortable, durable, and withal the most economical
material for all ladies’, gentlemen’s and children s
day and night wear.
Those with tender skins can wear “Viyella” without
the least discomfort, and it is an effective safeguard
against the sudden variations of climate frequently
encountered in this country.
All leading drapers and stores stock “Viyella,” but
if you experience any difficulty in obtaining a supply
write us direct and we will send you the name of
the nearest retailer who sells it.
I. & R. MORLEY,
56 Market Street, Sydney ; or 250 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.


Shipping.
P.
and
O.
BRANCH SERVICE .
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
•Twin Screw. All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
PASSENOER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB k £26.
CAPETOWN k NATAL, £l3 135., £l6 ]ss. k £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson k Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA EHGLAN D.
ORMONDE
ORAMA
ORVJETO
OSTERLKV
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES ,
OMRAII
. Geared Turbine
• Triple-Screw.
• Twin-Screw
15,000 Regd. Tons.
13,000
12.130
12,129
12,124
12.077
12.036
9,023
8,282
kitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads ; Single Berth; Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
j 12 Maiitin Place, Sydney.
Hanking, Public Companies, Sc c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. 11. O'M. WOOD. —
11. D. lIALL.
DEPOSIT YOUR SORPLOS MONEY
in this Rank, where it will earn INTEREST
at 3i% on the first £2OO, and 3% on the
excess to £5OO, and he REPAYABLE ON
DEMAND when you require it.
Deposits Received from is.
MONEY TO LEND ON MORTGAGE
at Low Interest to Farmers and Settlers and
on Approved City and Suburban Freeholds.
This Bank has No Agencies at Post Offices.
Represented in the State by 118 Branches
and over 500 Agencies.
By order of the Commissioners,
.1. 11. DAVIES. Secretary.
THE.
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £382,500.
Directors: lion. Sir ALFRED COWLEY-
Hon. ROBERT PIIILP, M.L.A.; Hon. A J
TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 242 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT- THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian gank of Commerce
limited”
(Registered 1909, under the Companies Act I
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. ..£2,000 000
SUBSCRIBED- £1 198 534
RAID.-UP (31st Dee,, 1913) ~ .. £1,195 446
RESERVE FUND „ .. .. £3^ooo
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Svdnev
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, H.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon
Esq.; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank N
Yarivood, Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq.
Rranches throughout New South Wales & Queensland
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid-Up 413,418 0 0
Reserve Fund 154,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors—Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunnine
Esq. ; Hon. C. AY. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager—AA'. A’. RALSTON
HEAD OFFICE . - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.’
The Colonial mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
<ll9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3.445,000.
paid to Policyholders exceed £6.000.000
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
' Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
V/- v , Chief Office for New South AA'ai.es:
23 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts. 'C.M.G.. M.L.C.: Chairman.,
The Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C.. M.P.
A, .ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary
Suiddms
TVTORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD, N.D.L
-i-l IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS.
TO COLOMBO, SUEZ, NAPLES, GENOA, ALGIERS,
SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP. AND BREMEN.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Installation.
■ All Steamers fitted with Laundrv.
PARKS TO LONDON: 1., £7l/10/-MI., £4O;
UI„ £l5 to £l9. RETURN: 1., £lO7/5/-; IT.,
£6O; 111., £3O/12/- to-. £37/16/
LOITMANN and CO.. General Agents, 7 Bridge-st.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
.Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
Steamers sail as under (circumstances permitting).
And every 28 days thereafter.
The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
•Cabins de luxe, with' private bath, etc.
tOne, two and three-berth rooms.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND. LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
m
Twin and Triple-screw Steamers.
SUBVIC, 12.500 tons, about MAY 20.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, about JUNE 10.
*C£/?J1/V7/C, 18,500 tons, about JULY 4.
RUVIC, 12,500 tons, about AUG 5.
*Largest vessel in Australian trade.
Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
Only One Class oi Accommodation.
Fares—Capetown or Durban, £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London . . . . 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from . . . . 25 5 0
PAMPHLETS AND ALL INFOBMATION ON APPLI-
CATION. Luggage Deceived Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
♦CAIRNS
(♦Transhipping : for
th i s and other
Queensland ports).
NOTtTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydffey' May 16.
BOMBA-LA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne May 20.
Leaves Sydney May 23.
COOMA (4000 Toils').
Leaves Melbourne May 27.
Leaves Sydney May 30.
For
MELBOURNE
(Trnnsliippinp: for
S.A. and W.A. ports).
| SOUTH.
I BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
y Heaves Sydney May IG.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney May 23.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
TOURS
<1
(
TO PAPUA
(viathe Queensland Coast.)
A Charming Combination
Tour.
5.5. “MORINDA,”
MAY 27.
Brisbane, Cairns. Port
Moresby, YVoonlark
Island and Yule Island.
£2O.
m
TO THE NEW HEBRIDES
(via Lord Howe and Norfolk
Islands).
53 DAYS’ TRIP.
S.S. “ MAKAMBO,”
JUNE 1.
Calling at about 100 Trading
and Mission Stations .
throughout the Group.
5.25.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., Head Office, SYDNEY.
EW SOUTH WALES.
Established JBl7.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS:
£3,500,000
£2,350.000
£3,500,000
£9.350 000
The ITon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.E.C.,
President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
ine Hon. Sir Normand McLaurm, iu., m.jj.C.
The lion. James T. Walker
The lion. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Il'on. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Alfred George Milson, Esq.; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office— George St.. Sydney. London office 29 Threadneedle St, E C
336 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated-and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
The Commercial Banking Co.
o
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£1,976,168 15 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,650.000 0 0
Reserve Capital . . . . 2,000,000 0 0
£5,656,168 15 0
DTTIF.CTORS:
Gkorok ,T. Cohen. F.sq.. . .. Chairman,
lion. 11. E. Eater, M.Tj.C. .. Deputy-Chairman,
lion. IT. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson. Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. IV. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 13 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares . . . . . . 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up . . . . . . .. . . 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . .. . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,117
GRANTS GRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts
all other usual Banking
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £544,304 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 156,486 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 77,506 0 0
£778.291 0 0
HE OFFICE: BRISBANE. '
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: F.. H. Matthews.
Londcn Office: 31 Budgre Row, Cannon Street, London,
26 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE Ilest S,torios written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Trice G<l.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by tHe
Oceanic Steamship Company
30,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,\
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABTNS TOE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
SONOMA ..
VENTURA
.. | June 6 Aug. 1 | Sept. 26 I Nov. 21
.. j July 4 Any. 29 j Oct. 24 j Dec. 19
Tl,e - t * ,r ° l, 2 h trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD P>Y P. & O , ORIENT DINE
N.D.E., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 RJTT STREET, SYDNEY.
T H f. North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS ; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and AVOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. AA’ALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE’
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah’
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers'
there connecting, with one of the Company’s un-to-
date liners for SAJDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s, 6d.
For Guide and -&11 particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF?
look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so Con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
Locky
i)
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing
DON’T LOOK OLD.
Shipping'-
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPP\SS PAS r ENGER SEEVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australia.!,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE -\
ADELAIDE I
PORT PIRJE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY >
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports, j
T.S.S. W t ANPILTjA(77S"
tons), fitted \Virele93
Telegraphy, Saturday,
dimer 6 and July 4.
(Carrying First ai. 1
Second Saloon ano
Steerage Passenger-. 1
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
GRANT' .jA, Mav 16.
VVAHILUA (7713 tons'),
Mav 30, June 27 and
July 25. Wireless Tele-
graphy.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascerr--;. 1L .,| on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL A CO.. LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, 'SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.'
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
*Triple-screw steamer, fitted with cabins-de-luxe en
suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
First Saloon passengers to Honolulu and points
beyond wishing to break journey at New Zealand
may proceed by Intercolonial steamer from Sydney
without extra charge.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STFAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
STEAM TO LONDON AND LIVERPOOL.
T.S.S. ESSEX .
11,000 Tons.
CAPTAIN BROWN.
BRISBANE
SYDNEY
MELBO T RNE
ADELAIDE
about JUNE 5, 1914.
„ JUNE 10, 1914.
„ JUNE 14, 1914.
„ JUNE 18, 1914.
FARES TO LONDON
Saloon, £4O. Third-Class, £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-
S-Coon Fares from Brisbane, £2 extra.
Steerage, £l/1/- extra.
Saloon accommodation consits of all two-berth
cabins on Upper Deck situated amidships. Well-
lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
_ Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provi-
sions from cool chamber throughout the voyage.
Electric light throughout. Return- and round-trip
tickets issued via Cape and/or Suez Canal. Prepaid
passages arranged. Fitted with wireless.
For illustrated pamphlets and full information
apply
BIRT & COMPANY, LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
■ Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER, SMITH & COMPANY LTD.., Adelaide.
11. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Huddart Parker Line.
Fast Passenger Steamship!
“Zealandia,” "Westralia,”
“ Uiimaroa,” “Wimmera*”
“Riverina,” "Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH k ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
11015 ART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON, f
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITER),
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
WINTER TRIPS.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Me'bourne,
Adelaide, West Australia* and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” j 10,000 tons
T.S.S. “KANOWNA” .... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ KYARRA” 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA*’ ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Tclcgraph.v.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also-
the'” enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel
hv the A.U.S.N. Line, as this' Company’s steamers
possess all up-to-date arrangements for con-
venience and comfort, making travel safe, easy
and pleasant.' .After first port of call, First and
Second Sa’Tßon 1 * Tickets are interchangeable with all
Interstate Companies, also with the Union S.S. Coy.’s-
steamers in the Fiji Trade; particulars on applica-
tion. For dates of sailing see Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.


Hotels. &c.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 15 ; 6 per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
tlie most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE RAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
m
m
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES —Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/1t
Directions with every
bottle
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
FOR A FAIR DINKUM GO
TRY THE .
G © © O Q 0 O SSQ
ft
MEZON
Accordeons
The World’s Best
35/-, 42/- 63/-
Sole Agent:
LYONS,
Bourkest.,Melb.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
m
Bank of Hitstralta
SYDNEY
This Rank is open for all classes of QENERAL BANKING BUSINESS
STANWAY HOUSE, KING STREET, SYDNEY
Also at Newcastle, Broken Hill, Dubbo, Canberra, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Perth, Hobart, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville and London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world. Hills negotiated or forwarded for
collection. Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid op fixed deposits.
Advances made against approved securities.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
Central Office : 30 CASTLEREAGH STREET (top of Mopre Street), SYDNEY.
Branches in the above cities and 2,000 Agrencies at Post Offices throughout the Commonwealth
Deposits from 1/- to £3OO. Interest at 3% per annum.
Deposits or Withdrawals mar be made at any Branch or Agency within the Commonwealth,
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. May, 191 U. DENISON MILLER, Governor.
m
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. 3IESTON, Local Director.
°\r; i
w)
Right to the Tick f
You wifi save
Time £- Money
by carrying an
Fx-»R
WATCH.
Gent.’s Full-s ! zed
Open Face Oxidised
Steel Lever Watch,
with 15 111
n
Fairfax 8 Roberts Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 and 25 HIJ\'TER STREET, SYEI' EY.
THE “PLUM” FOR ME.
* 4
I
Once you have shaved with a “Plum” Razor you will admit that it’s
the finest ever you used. The satisfaction of the “Plum” is in the blade.
Made from the finest silver steel, and tempered to perfection, the
blade of a “Plum” is always keen and ready for use. It shaves as
easy as possible and glides over the skin without causing the slightest
roughness or soreness. Why trouble with the annoyance of an inferior
razor when you can procure this splendid razor at such a small cost ?
Send Your Order To-day Price 10/6, Post Free.
We guarantee to keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle 10/6
Pair, in Double Case, an excellent set 21 /-
Single Razor, Tvory Handle, splendid quality 15/6
Pair, in Don’ Case, a handsome present 30/-
Plum Razor feuop 10/6 and 7/6
Razors Ground and Set with care 1/-
Safety Razors, handy and efficient from 5/6
C. & A. Moustache Trainer, shapes the moustache, worn at night—
Spirt far our Illustrated Price List. 2/6, 3/6, o/6
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
There’s Sauce for you!
Montserrat
Lime Juice Sauce suits
all tastes, and owing ro its
purity, adds a zest to food,
without upsettirg the most
delicate digestion. It helps
your food to feed you.
JJsfy your Storekeepr for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
ZZmnnT '%
/ r
F.WOLFF.&SOHN
F. Wolff &Sohn
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE
k BERLIN * LONDON 4
Obtainable at all the leading stores.
The Big Chief
represents the very latest in
OIL ENGINES,
and intending Buyers would do well to inspect same before placing their orders elsew
m
Made to our own specification from the very best materials, the “ BIG CHIEF
is without a rival for both ;
QUALITY and PRICE.
These Engines are hopper cooled and fitted with Wizard Magneto and regular Pulley, Extended Crank Shaft,
attachment for Kerosene as well as Benzine; Tools, and all usual accessories.
POSITIVELY A HANDSOME PAYING PROPOSITION for FARM, STATION or FACTORY
Send for Catalog giving full particulars, including A FIVE YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
EXCEPTIONALLY LIBERAL TERMS, or Discount for Cash.
R. L. SCRUTTON <& CO. LTD
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
“WHERE THE BEST ENGINES ARE SOLD."


m
The “Trocadero”
Gui n e a Rug.
This Rug- we illustrate is an excellent
example of worth, warmth, utility and
value. It is a nice weigfht, and the desigfn
is quite smart. It is specially selected Pure
Wool, with reversible pattern. Price 21/-
F I N N EY’S,
The Big BlocK, BRISBANE..
WHY YOUR STOMACH HURTS.
A DOCTOR’S COMMON-SENSE ADVICE.
Pain in the stomach, variously called in-
digestion, dyspepsia, flatulence, heartburn,
stomach-ache, etc., is usually attributed to
some unnatural, abnormal or diseased condi-
tion of the stomach itself. Nothing, how-
ever, could be farther from the truth. Nine-
teen times out of twenty the stomach is
absolutely healthy and normal, the pain and
discomfort being entirely due to the acidity
and fermentation of food which irritates and
distends the stomach ; although if this condi-
tion is allowed to run on. in time the con-
stant irritation of the acid is likely to eat
into the stomach walls and produce ulcers
and sometimes cancer of the stomach. Medi-
cine is useless in such a case. The acid
and fermenting food must be removed by a
stomach pump or an emetic, or you must
neutralise the acid and stop the fermentation
by talking, half a teaspoonful of bisurated
magnesia in a little w r ater. This latter is
by far the simpler and safer method. Bisur-
ated magnesia almost immediately neu-
tralises the dangerous acid and by correcting
the food contents enables even a tired, weak
stomach to digest almost any food without
any difficulty. Physicians advise that bisur-
ated magnesia should be kept in every home,
and a little taken after each meal whenever
the slightest tendency to food fermentation is
shown. Be sure to obtain bisurated mag-
nesia, as other forms of magnesia are valu-
able as tooth and mouth washes, bpt they do
not give, satisfactory results in , stomach
disorders.* ; V-
HOWARD Watch.
In more than one hundred and fifty highly-
specialised occupations, Howard Time is a ruling
factor.
Call and see the Watch or send for the Illus-
trated Booklet.
PR.OUDS LTD., Jewellers,
Sole Representatives, 187 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
IN BANANA LAND
“Polstan”: At Boulia (W.Q.) there are
phenomena in the natural water-supply line,
and I would like to know why. Small
basins in solid rock are full of clear water
even when the weather is as dry as the rock
that Moses struck before Moses struck it.
The basins are very small, but as they are,
like the widow who was begged for food by
Elijah, practically inexhaustible, their size
doesn t matter much. Empty one, and the
water at once begins to rise again. The
rock, is apparently solid, and the little wells
don t overflow. I think they are replenished
by subterranean loans at 4ti per cent.
“Binnacle's” ray of light:—
Wireless telegraphy, which has proved its enormous
value to shipping, received a hearty and spontaneous
curse a few days ago. The big Pacific mail liner
Siberia, trading to Japan, was calling up the Aus-
man Lloyd steamer Persia, off the coast of Formosa.
The Persia s call is M. 0.5., but a shore station, inter-
cepting the signals, read them as 5.0.5., the univer-
sal call for assistance. The news that the Siberia
was crying out for help was flashed to London, to
the consternation of the relatives of hundreds of pas-
sengers and of the insurance brokers. The first
began to develop hysterics, the second to gamble in
re-insuranees. When a breathless cable arrived to
cry that the call S.O.S. had ceased the re-insurance
rate jumped to 50 guineas per cent. It was
assumed that the big ship had gone to David Jones.
The next message was to the effect that the Siberia
had arrived at Manila amid much applause and aston-
ishment. The brokers and gamblers who burnt their
fingers over insurances are a very wild lot, and revi-
sion of the Morse code of signals is suggested. But
who can devise a code of signals that some fool won’t
mistake, or a horse that will never bolt, or a man
who will never fall off a horse, or a gun that won’t
miss fire some day, or a stair that no person will fall
down ?
The results of the foolishness of a State
of 670,000 square miles being allegedly gov-
erned by a town poked away in the south-
east corner are coming home to roost in
Bananaland. The size of the State alone
forbids capable management from one town,
but when that one town suffers as badly
from the centralisation selfishness as almost
any other town in Australia—which is say-
ing much—any remote chance of capable
management vanisheth like the north wind
or the south beer or some such fleeting epi-
sode. In the last 10 years—although pre-
vious to that the south had more mileage
than the rest of the State put together—
<6o miles of line have been opened in the
south, and only 260 miles in the centre, and
520 in the north; while at present there
are under reconstruction 142 miles in the
south, 63 in the centre, and 96 in the north.
Also, some of the best agricultural land in
the State is to. be found in the north and
the centre, but it is held in large parcels by
influential men, whom the Government refuse
to disturb. The way the farmer is encour-
aged to go north can be seen bv the follow-
ing figures. In the last 15 years 5i million
acres of agricultural land have been thrown
open in the south,, while the centre gnd the
north have had less than one million acres
each opened. About 20 vears ago the neg-
lected parts of the State gathered sufficient
energy to agitate foy subdivision, but the
influence of the south was too great. Since
then they have been content to remain neg-
lected. To this writer, Bananaland should
be split up into six States (not three, as is
the general inclination), three coastal and
three inland; the inland States to centre on
Cunnamulla, Longreach and Hughenden say.
It is the lack of inland States that keeps
the population to the coast, and the wisdom
of small States with one powerful executive
has been proved. Incidentally, the super-
fluous royal representative and a hundred
other useless expenses could be abolished
ond the money diverted to something bene-
ficial. Moreover, the time is ripe.
The Parting.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was nothing tragic about our parting,
A jest was our summer’s epitaph;
lou were swinging a brief-bag to and fro
* n big brown hand as you turned to go,
And I was trying to laugh.
A newsboy, hawking his evening wares,
Was urging us both to buy;
But you shook your head in a moment’s
frown
As he clattered the dusty stairway down
With his shrilly huckster cry. '
The silence fell. I was swift to break it
In silence sometimes, two souls have met —
fEye looks in eye and a challenge flings!)
And yet, to-day, ’tis the unsaid things
I wish that I could forget!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, May 11, 1914.
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
The races at Ascot last Saturday were
badly attended, and did not entice any bril-
liant frocking. On Monday, however, the
usual fashionables fluttered about the lawn
and handed each other racing information
calculated to send the recipients tottering to
ruin. His Ex. and Lady Macgregor ar-
rived unexpectedly, everybody who thought
of the matter (and there were fully half a
dozen) believing them to be at the Eight-
hour Sports. The committee of that enter-
tainment, it appears, forgot to send the
usual invitation, for which, doubtless, the
Chiel blessed them. Invitations to the press
were, by the same far-seeing citizens, con-
fined to one out of the four dailies. So
there were quite a lot of happy people in
Brisbane on Saturday.
Dixie Newton, who fled hence in March,
glanced into India before going on to
Europe. After calling in at Paris and a
few other places she packed her swag for
Wales, where she is saying with the Yerney
RESPICT AV COORT.
WAYBACK CITIZEN (fined £1 for drunkenness): “Look here , Mick , a quid's too much.’
HOGAN, JAY PAY : “ Soilence, sor! Ye may call me Mick out ov coort, but here ye will
plase rimimber O'im yer blessed Worship."
clan, a daughter of which is her sister-in-
law. Before long Miss Newton will flit
north to the Land of Haggis, with her golf
sticks. I don’t know a better way to
tackle haggis.
Elaine Feez, daughter of the Brisbane
lawyer, has just finished up a successful con-
cert tour in Germany, with a pianoforte
cital at Leipzig. Her pet composer is
Beethoven, and German audiences rise en-
thusiastically and murmur ‘‘Hie” or
“Hock,” or something like that, whenever
she puts him on the menu. Lambrino, her
master, has promised her a career, and in
the breach-of-promise line he is without a
stain on his character.
The Eniversity Women’s Club, a haughty
institution with an aeroplane variety of
nose, as it were, climbed into its nicest
evening dress and slippers the other evening
and did the polka and the tango-hug and the
pigeop’s-wing and the double-shuffle and the
olfl George Henry down at the University
Hall. Same night the Croquet set had a
jig. Both shows suffered in the attendance
from rain spasms.
“The Country Girl,” played by the Bris-
bane _ Amateur Operatic Society, has been
running at His Majesty’s all the week, and
has drawn a crowded house at each per-
formance. Lottie Richter Davis and Teenie
Annand Jordan played the two chief parts
(Marjorie and the Princess), and the sing-
ing of both was a joy and a delight. Tall,
slender Lottie Richter faced the work as to
the manner born, and Mrs. Jordan, who
vyas skilfully made up, would have won the
first prize or senior trophy at any “Oriental”
ball. George Webster was the hit of the
show as Barry, and Miss Eunice Drury, as
Sophie, kept the comedy part from sagging
in the middle.
Herbert Walton, of the Green Dandies,
who has played Barry over 200 times,
coached Mr. Webster for the part. As a
mark of appreciation, Mr. Walton was in-
duced to play the role himself on Friday
night.
One of the morning papers this week
voiced the wail of a female who had been
stabbed in the nose —accidentally—by some
unsisterly stranger whose hatpins w T ere of
the stiletto description. The party with
the punctured nose snorted that she “thought
there was a by-law” on the subject. So
there is. Also there are 10 Hebrew by-
laws in the Book of Exodus. What hap-
pens as a consequence?
The Ambulance Sports were to have hap-
pened to-day, but the angel in charge
of the waterworks Up Above (I suppose
he would be called the Archturncock) had
all the taps running. So the sports were
washed off the .slate for the time being.
Firmin McKinnon, a popular Queensland
journalist, who has been editing the Dar-
ling Downs Gazette, is coming back to
Brisbane at the end of. the month, to join
the Courier.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Ilangan” 1 : Brisbane is spending another
£lO,OOO on wharf extension, while a fleet of
tugs is employed to drag big ships off the
mudbanks of the river. Meanwhile, the splen-
did port of Gladstone has been so wholly sup-
pressed by the big city interests that it takes
a half-holiday because of its wild surprise
when a 200-ton vessel calls in to buy a pint
of beer.
Gov. Macgregor alleged, at
Brisbane St. George’s banquet, that Britain
had lent the Dominions and foreign countries
£3,500,000,000 and that the annual income
of the nation was £2.400,000,000. In the
same issue of the Courier that reported this
utterance it was specially mentioned that a
contribution of two shillings had been re-
ceived towards supplying the poor of London
with meat.
Plain Tales from the Isles.
Dear Bulletin, —The old trouble between
Capital and Democracy is proceeding on
somewhat new lines in P-apua. Capitalism
has got one foot planted in the country, and
is preparing to put down the other; but the
foot is booted, so the simple people of the
Territory cannot see that the extrem-
ity inside is cloven. Capitalism wants
imported Asiatic labor. It wants 30,000
or 40,000 or 80,000 Chinks and Japs;
it wants them muck cheap; it wants
to settle them for a term of years,
or for life, in a territory that is just
about an afternoon’s run fiorn the northern,
tip of Australia. This isn’t White Australia,
policy. Capitalism professes to think the
yellow races can never injure us ; anyhow, it
doesn’t care if they do so long as it. procures;
dividends quick, even if they ni‘fe blood-
stained and dirty. And it has g-t "an Heai
that it can get them a little quieurr, by im-
porting the Chink nr.d Lite Jap. As a matter-
of fact, it can t. Chink and the rest cost;
more than the humble Papuan, both in wages-
and recruiting; also, labor of the local kind I
has never been more plentiful than at pre-
sent, and none of the plantations are going;
short, or are likely to. But Capital, pulling;
strings from Melbourne and Sydney, thinks;
that if it could manage to get those crowds ;
of Chows, etc., away from their native count-
try into the wilds of Papua und.r.its sole
control, it could in one way or another-
mostly in another—contrive things so i
as to get its labor for pretty well.
nothing. However it; has learned cunning:
by the leek it was • made to chew over
the Kanaka question. If doesn’t -label itself
Capitalism, just now. In Papua it is Demo-
cracy-Simple Manhood ; Electoral Repre- -
sentation (in a population of a scant one thou-
sand) ; the Sovereign People asking„for their.
Rights. Give it its rights, and it will be
happy. All it wants is a majority in the
Papuan Legislative Council so that it can-
pass resolutions in favor of Chinese or Jap>
labor, till it wears down tbe resistance of
the Commonwealth Government. When the
Australian Government took over Papua a.
law keeping out coolie labor was one of its-
iirst Acts. In those days the labor employ-
ers of the Territory were mostly miners, and
the Papuan miner is nearly always a good
Australian, who doesn’t want the northern
coolies, even if he thought they were cheaper
than the Papuan. But when the day of the
planter came things' were changed. The
planter. is no Democrat' (his- shareholders
would like to catch him at it)A He is to a
man in favor of anything cheap and Asiatic
and dangerous and un-Australian, provided
it is cheap. That the Asiatic is not cheap,
m Papua, is a thing he won’t believe. He
wants to try, anyhow. This is one of the
things he won’t say right out in meeting,,
since most of the white population is opposed;
to coolie labor —but nevertheless, in private,-,
his night and morning prayer is : “O Lord, 1 ,
send me the Chink and the Jap.” This is;
the real milk of the Papuan cocoanut, where.'
elective representation is concerned. It is;
also the “innards” of the persistent system;
of attack upon the Governor made by-
Papua’s only newspaper, and of the supply
of lies about Papuan affairs generally that
trickles through to the Australian press.
Governor Murray is a White Australian and
a Democrat. If the ends of this particular
capitalistic combine are to be attained, he
and his Administration will be plain Mud.
The strange part of the whole show is that
the Papuan Times should have succeeded, so
far, in disguising itself as a Democratic
paper, and the pity of it is that so many
real Democrats should have been confidence-
tricked into, supporting a movement that is
a mere capitalistic dodge. Governor Mur-
ray, by the way, is not the only New Guinea
ruler who is having a trying time. A trav-
eller from Rabaul the other day, between
two friendly beers, told me that Governor
Haul is finding thorns in the stuffing of
his mattress. German New Guinea is more
or less “agin” Governor Haul, and for an
odd reason-—he is friendly to the yellow
people. They are not employed as laborers
in German New Guinea (they know better
there), but they are allowed in, and may
stay long, enough to do some carpentering
and building and boat-repairing and things
of that sort. They are not allowed to take
up a square inch of the Fatherland’s pre-
cious Territory, and they are kindly but
firmly escorted to a homeward steamer after
a year or two ; nevertheless, young Germany
does not like them, and especially does not
like the glad hand that Governor Haul is
said to have extended to them. The result
is that Governor Haul, still in the early
forties, in good health and apparently as
able a Governor as most colonies are blessed
with, is going home soon, and probably won’t
come back any more. It is a queer specta-
cle, the two New Guineas, Australian and'
German, each barking at its Governor, one-
because the said Governor won’t let in the:
yellow man, and the other because he will:.
Apparently, if the countries could only ex-
change their Governors, everyone would be-
satisfied all round.—Tours, etc., Hard Case..


w
AT JON
mmi
■ > -■ -■
i"* ,f s n
S i s
> : S2M P
1 pSJ
UmmmM •
-
km
?v pWS
■. •'■'t"' . -
- ~:y
w&mmmm
;'jjsoE
4
§|p§
• -:
- -■
gsrlii
'b>> <v ;ys&
,< : ■ ■
:. •■■■-- ««%&%
. -I
:
V 2
fife >r^l
Hi §gS|-*IS , ~-. V :
* /‘r*V:
' ).. $ ■
- r -
-/ j
ClvC
e ' r >
...-;
Fine
ICTOR
mmutty
4 Qualify Guaranteed
• - v
•- - :
3)unde£
Ho X>UCC OF SCO
. * ?•- :
31
n<j
a, *1
:v : ' - *•:
• ■ ■'.' . _ '
if*-;
'
SP
’ m •
-•‘V
■»
iflrSae
* x \P-
lii
atit
f
jk ' , ''- s ? i >
.> y aa
W
RSF* ~ :
, •? *:
*■ .*
!&
0* 300*.
\ mv%
Sgfprj
‘ \ «■*
'■ /£•' • :
Smmi
,\ I*^
!! v p‘S
;
•V T. :
r-
'
■ pJ
HBSSiw" • - ' '
BBSSfe?" ’’
l‘k: |,
mm.
ISlllsi
.
Cmblcms
untu
m
m
S§


•v
'is -s' |Sr
The care of
children
becomes a pleasant task
when the children have been
Strengthened and fortified by
SCOTT'S Emulsion. Food for
the growing muscles, tissues,
bones and brain—this pure
palatable strength-maker pro-
mm
tects against rick-
ets, teething trou-
bles, coughs,
colds, whooping
cough and a host
of childhood ail-
ments, at the
same time that it
provides the
foundation of vig-
orous health and a sound con-
stitution. For your child’s
sake, insist on genuine
scons
Emulsion
with the fishman trade mark
on the package.
ANTINEDRASTHIN
is a-means of administering to the brain and nerve
cells their natural food element (Lecithin in an
absolutely pure form). It is not a medicine, and
contains neither drug nor chemical—but builds up
the nervous system by the process of natural nutri-
tion.
It affords prompt relief in all forms of nerve
maladies, dyspepsia, anaemia, etc., and gives wonderful
results in cases of mental and physical overstrain
and exhaustion. ir
Antineurasthin restores the exhausted nervous
system by natural feeding. Drugs and tonics destroy
by stimulating and deadening.
Antineurasthin is prepared in tablet form, pleasant
to the taste, and convenient to carry when travelling.
A FREE TRIAL SUPPLY
will be sent on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage by the Wholesale Agents, H. A. Goddard,
No. 3 Australasia Chambers, 406-14 Queen Street,
Brisbane; or branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82
Pitt Street, Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit Buildings,
Queen Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s. Buildings,
Cliff Street, Fremantle; 213 Smeeton's Buildings,
Queen Street, Auckland.
Serial No. 810.—Guaranteed under the Pure
Foods Act of New South Wales, by H. A. Goddard,
Sydney, to contain not less than io per cent. Pure
Lecithin. No 810.*
carnation
AL.COM
POWDER
Don’t Throw
Away Your
Williams’
Talc. Tins.
Post four empty
tins (any odor)
to the J. B.
Williams Co.,
Box 98, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and we
will send you
without charge
Williams’
fm
exquisite Silver-
pi at ed Vanity
Box, with
Powder
Puff and
Concentra-
ting Mir-
ror, exact-
ly like il-
lustration.
I Was Bald
> And came into possession of the
secret of a Genuine Hair Grower.
My Hair Grew to its Present Length in 40 Days.
Mr. CRA VUN
BURLEIGH
From a recent
photograph.
THIS ANNOUNCEMENT is of special interest to every MAN
AND WOMAN who has previously tried other HAIR-GROWING PREPARA-
TIONS. If you have HAD NO SUCCESS WITH OTHERS, please write to
me. I REFRAIN from expressing any personal opinion as to other prepara-
tions, but point to the vast array of letters received from patrons, who,
HAVING TESTED numerous advertised compounds, washes, etc., without
benefit, used tny pomade, and FOUND IT TO BE EXACTLY AS REPRE-
SENTED—A TRUE HAIR GROWER. It is always prepared in accordance
with the formula with which my name has become famous, and which is
endorsed by NOTED ANALYTICAL EXPERTS OF ENGLAND, GERMANY,
FRANCE AND THE UNITED STATES. It can be shown by many letters
which I receive that, IN A FEW DAYS AFTER IIIE PIRSI APPLICATION,
THE HAIR BEGINS TO GROW, AND CONTINUES UNTIL A HEALTHY,
STRONG, PERMANENT GROWTH IS MANIFEST.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff, baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well
the humiliation that they cause. There is no need, however, of such conditions. These troubles can
be quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
10,000 Free Trial Boxes
My offer is a straightforward, honest proposition from a business man to sensible men and women.
The merit of my TRUE HAIR GROWER is in the preparation itself, not in the advertising. If you
will write to me I will send you a TRIAL BOX of the JOHN CRAVEN BURLEIGH TRUE HAIIi
GROWER. I make this offer because I want YOU to know just what my 'lrue Hair Grower will do.
I was bald, it cured me, and it has cured thousands of others. Package will be sent securely sealed
in plain wrapper.
BALDNESS, DANDRUFF, ITCHING, ETC.
FREE TRIAL COUPON.
Cut out this Coupon, and send with 3 stamps, to cover postage, etc., and I will
immediately post a trial box of my True Hair Grower.
JOHN CRAVEN BURLEIGH, DEPT. 7, 192 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
La.4l month, on leaving ' Brisbane, going
north, the Chinese crew of the ship Alden-
ham was mustered as usual by the Customs
officer ; and, although tbp true
answered the roll call, he n
of them had aged strangely s
arrival. Notwithstanding I' J
üble [irotests that the oha
Enoggera water and the dot
once of picture shows, th
smelt a
old-time
who, rous of b.
land
Pagans ba
in China.
ceedtngs
two Hop
Commonw
chan
dn t
That'
quaint
an enel
plati is
put, hiJ
had a
other
throngs,
present,
said they
they object]
British pa
stupids caj
been come
try’s Defj
taxes,
that waj
when
the
pare to dc.
that) they d|
principle of
how, the worl
tempt the ki|
himself, but
other kid to
“Don Q.”: I
happy familj
certain."""i , B4 BIW llhhUt H LIIUI
l(l^)t er Appel is the square peg in a round
the round hole in a square face, oi
DUPLEX
BRACES
For Men of fiction
They're Great
At at! Stores. 2 (
Den bam! having pushed his liquor Bill a
second time through, the Assembly, now finds
hi mselfconf routed by the bung party in th
g is not nulv potent in the
isils by virtue of direct repre
>o in the fact that two lead
barrack for beer (Bung
each then
’o emp opinions
rober
the
the Highland
rily remarken
s travels seen
plough their
|im, to siieak
to barbar-
e Highland
shall pro-
jous Scot
to the
ra-laru
while
to tb»
consist
was given
. thatlwaited on
requtfit that he
ibdivwed estate
jverntnent
jg tc® De. ham.
fce h(«had time
upland sold
fndvun-
_nd thiii
kihiTiTmh topic
Bin to believi
Inlying (> pe.
Itioverninenl
lliaro didn’t
|the request,
jbour ‘‘land
(it the feel-
supporters
"Miss MacHUlbsh. T7TOens!nmrs champion
lady tennis player, and daughter of Donald
Mackintosh. M.L.A.. was married in Pin*
KNOWLEDGE IS POWER
Thirty years of assiduous study of The Hair and its Treatment, and all
Capillary Diseases as they affect the Scalp and Hair, have given me the means
of Preserving the Hair, and producing a new growth, after all other preparations
have failed.
Mr. Fred Peakman, of Wairoa, New Zealand, is another wonderful case. Ilis hairdresser tells me
he had not. a scrap of hair, and now, after a few months’ treatment with my preparations, he has
got a splendid growth of hair.
Mr. O’Rourke, Wee Waa, New South Wales, writes: “My head, which was nearly bald, has now
come back to its usual growth.”
Mr. Sutherland states: “I had onlv a little down on my head when I commenced to use your
SPECIAL PARASENE and COSMO LOTION ; now I have a beautiful head of hair.”
Gentlemen who are going bald should use Special Paraseiie and CoSIUO Lotion, ° ne at
night and the other in the morning, and wash the head once a week with Shuilipuiia.
Price (with postage, two months’ treatment): Victoria, 12/-; four months, 22/6. OUk.
States, 12/6 and 23/6. ' .
Ladies with hair falling out should apply Restorer at night, and CosillO Lotion ln 110
morning, and wash the head as often as necessary with Shampuna.
Naturaline is a splendid preparation for coloring Grey Hair. It acts quickly, naturally
and effectively', and is perfectly' harmless. Made in all colors. Get the right strength.
No. 1 for Light Brown Hair- Medium for Medium Brown Hair.
No. 2 for Dark Brown or a Light Black ; Extra Strong for very Black Hair.
Price: Victoria, with postage, 6/3. Other States, 6/8.
E. HOLLAND
Scalp and Hair Specialist,
195 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/b.
m
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, a n d
effectually
cuts short all
attack* of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, an n
he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a .charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERr.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
A’o notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name end address must appear on MSS. Ao
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MSS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
A Howe: The man who wrote these items
was a war correspondent in a scrap where every man
took his life in his hand, and the prisoner had a good ,
chance of being boiled alive. So perhaps he isn’t
the effeminate person you imagine. Were you ever
boiled alive?. .. .Blue Pencil: He was once a postal
official in Sydney, and afterwards did some press-
work in Australia. He isn’t in “Who’s Who” (1914),
so we can’t give you his present address, but no
doubt you can find it at some of the daily paper
offices.... G.: The tin-scratcher and the footless mad-
man are picturesque, but too horrible. .. .Fritz: For
pity’s sake, drop sending us accurately-typed items
that you have hewn from London and Yankee papers,
and paraphrased for our benefit. They fill up the
w.p.b., and make the labors of the charlady unneces-
sarily heavy. . . .S.A.T.: It was resourceful, but'not
worth print where space is so scarce that life is one
long howl or snarl at the man who makes up the
paper. Incidentally, The Bulletin is glad you are
a “bullock bloke.” One of its kindly spots has
“bullock bloke” branded in the middle. . . .Bard of
the Glen: It’s wonderful what you can’t do when
you don’t try. Incidentally, it may be that you
couldn’t do it even if you did try....C.N. (Mun-
gana) : Tarquah G. M. Co. via Seccondee, Gold Coast,
Africa, via Great Britain. .. .Pill: What George
Reid doubtless meant was that “we shouldn’t dig up
black hatreds at a moment when the bosh is grow-
ing green over them.” “Moss” was a misprint. . . .
Kao: We have no information about the balance-
sheet of that Brisbane paper, so it is no use asking
questions at present. Applications for a copy of
the document seem futile. In fact, one might
imagine the concern was a hidden crime, or a dead
body, or a Venetian Council of Ten, or a Free-
masons’ lodge, so far as publicity goes. Possibly
there is a murdered Chinaman on the premises, and
concealment is essential. . . . Mulgaite: It depends
on the nationality of the ship. All persons born
on British vessels, for example, are registered in a
parish in the East End of London. .. .W.F.M.: Give
over. You lack the writer’s gift. . . . J.P.S.: Win-
deyer heard the news of Dean’s guilt at Adelaide.
He wept tears of joy all over a leg of mutton which
he was eating at the time; finished the entire
joint, barring the bone and a fragment of gristle;
and had a fit on the floor. This is the story of
a horrified waiter who was employed at the hotel
where the dreadful spectacle is supposed to have
been staged. It is possible that the waiter lied.
The story of another waiter is that Windeyer swal-
lowed the mutton, as above-mentioned, and had
two fits. Who shall decide where waiters disagree?
All that one can say, with absolute certitude, is
that Windeyer was glad to learn about Dean’s
guilt, and had an unhealthy appetite. ... S.O.:
Cutting and biographical sketch to hand. But
surely it is over the odds to say that A. G. Ste-
phens “was the first to recognise the budding gifts of
Arthur Adams,” and that “Henry Lawson, Roderic
Quinn, Hugh McCrae and every other Australian
writer of distinction acknowledge that they owe
most of their present status” to his criticisms.
Arthur Adams and Henry Lawson, not to mention
Edward Dyson, Edmund Fisher and others, were on
deck in a literary sense before your friend appeared
on the literary horizon. And many others made
their appearance during the long time he was help-
ing to hold up a daily paper in Wellington (Maori-
land) . . . . Bullswool: Not worth reprinting.... Tiaki:
Dunno. When did you send them ?. .. . Reolo : No
use sending pars, that way. . . . A.A.H.: Another con-
tributor got in first.... J.T.T.: None of use —any-
how, for print. .. . A.K.M.: (Townsville): Jerusalem
is reckoned to have snow storms two years out of
three. The temperature gets down to seven degrees
below freezing point. There is a legend that a mild
winter happens every third year. Bethlehem is a trifle
higher than Jerusalem, more exposed, and colder. K is
nearly 2600ft. above sea level. That is. why the
winter snow hits it in the waistbelt. Jericho, only
half a day’s drive away, has no snow, but then
Jericho has the amazing quality of being some 1200ft.
below sea-level. .. .The P.: It doesn’t arrive with
the necessary crash.... Rocky J.: Bumped out....
H.S.: Old yarns re-dished, aren’t they ?. .. . S.R.C.:
You may have been a king, and Cleopatra may have
hugged you on the Nile, but can you prove it?....
Here.: Perfect Stranger ! Why do you suddenly ap-
pear and start to give off mental fog? D —n your
poem !. . . .C.J.F.: Poem beginning “Oh yer silly lot
o’ sooners. ‘Don’t yer feel like chewing bricks?”
cast out G.C.: Good try—it fails bravely
Austra: Well,-anyhow, it was a joyous outburst....
Jean J.: Yelps—yelps —all yelps! Millay (V.):
Not here! Try one of the heavyweight weeklies —
the sort that are ballasted with pumpkins and have
bright articles on swine fever next to the society
news. . . .II.W.: Give it to some confirmed reciter
and let him do his dreadful worst with it... .
1 D.R.W-L.: “At the request of several parties, I am
forwarding a political satire.” The Religious Editor,
who is at present engaged in recharging his san ti ag,
would like the names and addresses of those parties.
He wants to give them a picnic. .. .H.B.W.: No
helping hand available. We can only extend the
•;helping basket. Put it there! Norman B.: An
• idea, but you can’t juggle with it. . . .E.B.: Into the
abyss!... .G.F.G.: You mean well —that is your
only excuse E.M.P.: It’s quiet, tidy verse —just
' as quiet and tidy as the dead should always be. The
conversation in the bachelors’ apartments reads as
if 'it ‘ had been composed by a nice young girl....
E.B. (M.L.) : Glad to get rid of it if you will let
us have the necessary stamp..A.A.H.: (M.L.) :
Some joy in it, but it’s too rough M.C. (Fitz-
roy, V.): Flabby item....Pat (Brisbane): Basketed.
It was dull stuff Fullup: Pour yourself out
R.W.C. (Broken Hill) : Have no desire to crush
you, but W.C.P.: It isn’t a poem—it is a
slab of stodge.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Flo: Drawing mightn’t be contempt of court, but it
is certainly contempt of art. Don't remember
previous drawing, thank Heaven. Life would be
intolerable if we couldn’t forget such things....
Jack G.: Old gag, and the drawing is flat and life-
less. . . .F.M.: There is a glimmer in the cartoon idea
but you can’t draw B.C.H.: The cricketer'isn’t of
sufficient importance and the Governor looks im-
probable. Besides, we’ve already had him....R.E.:
Old gag and wretched, slapdash drawing. A hand
that is just a lump of flesh is a dreadful sight....
R.G.C.: Foolish jest and wretched little diagram....
Spot: It makes no appeal. . . .M. (Lithgow) : Idea not
useable.
It is impressively interesting to hear that
the wife of the forthcoming G.-G., being the
daughter of a marquis, will be known to
Australia ;as Lady Helen, or Lady Helen
Mo-Ferg., not Lady Ferguson. Her hus-
band is a mere knight. Militant re-
presentatives of the downtrodden sex will
' please note that the laws of social “rank”
were made for women. The girl who is born
with a title to her name can “rise” to a
higher title by marriage, but cannot descend
to a lower one, like the Miss Montmorency
who becomes a Mrs. Mudsre. Also the titled
widow who marries again can please herself
as to whether she will call herself by her
second husband’s name or remain faithful in
title to the dear departed. Finally, it seems
necessary to remind suffragettes that, whilst
a younger son of an earl is born only an
“honorable,” his twin sister becomes a Lady
on the spot.


£
CIUT FROM OUR
■ATALOG.
In case you did not see
the Rifles mentioned in
this paper the last two
issu ;s, you had >etter get the complete free list. The Rifles shown be-
low are light and handy for small game, but our Catalog, will tell you
the right Gun for all grades of Shooting—from Sparrows to Buffalo.
m
Winchester Thumb Trigger Model Rifle-No. 3010-
„, iound barrel, American Walnut stock, vulcanite heel plate.
Shoots .22 short, long, and long rifle cartridges ~\ A /CZ
... , Price, with V sight O
With Adjustable sight, 17/-
m
Stevens’ “ Favorite ”-No. 3008—Take-down
Rifle. 22 in. half-octagon barrel, walnut stock,
vulcanite butt plate, Rocky Mountain OC/
front, and Storting rear sights ... Price ■"*-*/ “
.25 and .32 Calibres same price
m
Special “AP” Mauser Pattern
Makers of Browning Pistols)—No. 3003 This has
steel barrel, 28 in. long, rifled to War Office standard
smokeless powder, self-cocking new patent bolt, heavily
safety lock, long fore-end, holding 2-piece cleaning rod. Shoots al
.22 Cartridges. A fine sporting rile ..
Rifle— (made by
a heavy Cockerill
, and proved for
reinforced breech
11 lengths AC /
Price **o/-
m
“Savage” New Model 20-Shot Kepe; ter
—No. 3025—20 in. round barrel, walnut stock,; teel
butt plate. Shoots 22 short cartridges only. After fill-
ing magazine (which is invisible, being contained in stock)
simply ciose breech. This automatically loads and cocks rifle.
Simple take down device facilities cleaning and carrying. Auto-
matic loading and perfect ejection. Weight, 41bs. ... Price
30/-
m
“Winchester Model” 1892 Repeating Rifle
—No. 3035—Made in 4 sizes: .25-20, .32, .38 and .44 Cals.
Can be had with half magazine carrying 7 shots, or full maga-
zine, carrying 14. Adjustable sporting sights Weight /?0 in.
about 7K lbs. 24 in. round barrel ... ... ... Price o^/0
m
Remington Special Target Hammerless
Repeating Rifle No. 3028-Has 24 in. Special Rem-
ington steel octagon barrel, straight grip, walnut stock fitted with
steel rifle butt plate. Magazine holds 15 shoit, 12 long, or 11 r 7f\ /
long-rifle caitridges. Weight, lbs. ... ... Price •"/“
Gunmakers and Cartridge Manufacturers
318 Little Collins St., Melbourne
The A.P.” Rifle Catalog qontains 100
types of Sporting Rifles, suitable for all
kinds of game. Each of these can be had
with 12 different combinations of sights, so
the shooter has practically 1,000 Rifles to
choose from, prices: 1 Of- to £2O A mongst
these are: 6 Rifles bv F.N. (Brc wring
Pistol Co); 3by Savage Arms Co.; 7by
Stevens Arms Co : 49 by The Winchester
Co ; 5 by Remingtrn U M.C ; 20 by
Marhn Arms Co.: 8 by the B.S A. Co.
Calibres .22 to .45/90. Ask for one Free
A
■
DRAWN TUNGSTEN WIRE
SAVE 15'- IN THE POUND
NO LAMPS TAKE LESS CURRENT
/i
z
V
Always Hot!
You need not suffer
like this. Kriischen
Salts provide the remedy
by the simplest of all
means —by putting you
in first class condition.
The human body is so
constituted that it can
endure all the changes
of temperature ever ex-
perienced in any part of
the Dominion without
distress —if it is healthy.
The man who is con-
tinually getting too hot
is not healthy and should
at once set about mak-
ing himself so.
A very common mis-
take is to suppose that
only the violently ath-
letic people who take
constant hard exercise
can enjoy the blessing
of good health.
Muscular exercise is
only one way —and not
always the best —of
getting health.
Every man and
woman can get fit and
keep fit by gently and
systematically cleansing
the system while at the
same time bracing and
stimulating it to proper
normal activity.
For this purpose take
half a teaspoonful of
Kriischen Salts in a
tumbler of hot water
every morning when
you rise.
Not a Fizzy Drink.
Kriischen Salts are not
gaseous or effervescent, so
that you may take them with-
out the least fear of flatulence.
Many people experience dis-
comfort after drinking any
aerated mixture. Everyone can
take Kriischen Salts without
any unpleasant sensation what-
ever.
Kruschen Salts dispel all
traces of uric acid from the
system and bring a strong
sense of vitality and well-being.
Slackness and depression dis-
appear and in their stead come
vigour and cheerfulness, fresh-
ness and energy, and the keen
delight of perfect mental and
bodily health.
Kriischen Salts.
Kriischen Salts are a sure
but gentle aperient. By re-
moving the uric acid from the
system they speedily and per-
manently drive away Gout,
Rheumatism, Lumbago, Liver
and Kidney troubles, Eczema
and Indigestion.
Kriischen Salts are not
laxative nor weakening but act
as a splendid tonic.
The body frequently fails to
supply itself with the necessary
quantities of Sodium, Mag-
nesium and Potassium Salts
which.it should take from the
food it receives. Kriischen
Salts remedy all such defects
and help to build up sound,
healthy tissue.
Krnschen
Salts
LIEBIG’S
ANALYSIS :
SODA SULPIL
SODA CHLORID.
SODA PIIOSPII.
MAGNES. SULPIL
MAGNES. CHLOR.
POT AS. SULPH.
POTAS. CHLORID.
Of all good chemists, grocers
and stores throughout Australia'
Wholesale Distributing Agents'
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR
287-289, Clarence Street *
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors-
E. GRIFFITH HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD
63, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
1-
Per Bottle.


Amusements.
[pICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■A Governing Director: HUGH D. McINIOSIL
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
ED. E. FORD, the Australian Sundowner.
RUSSELL CARR, Military Ventriloquist
VERA ROCHDALE, Petite Soubrette.
VAUDE & VERNE, Achiles and Ares.
THE SIIENTONS, Bioscope.
Commencing on Monday :
ADA REEVE, the Queen of Vaudeville.
And a Great Company of Established Favorites.
PRICES: 5/-, 4/-, 3/- and 1/-.
Tivoli theatre, Melbourne.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSII.
Last Nights: ADA REEVE, the Queen of Vaudeville.
W. C. FIELDS, the Silent Humorist.
GILDAY k FOX, Hebrew Delineators.,
“THE TWO BOBS,” a Rag or two, a Song or two,
a Laugh or two, by a Bob or two.
FARR & FARLAND.
SALANGER <fc HAMILTON, American and Conti-
nental Dancers. ADDIE LEIGH. \
Coming on Monday: THE ELLIOTT SAVONAS.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—4s., 35., 25., Is.
ARTISTS APPEARING AT
Tivoli thea t r e, Adelaide
THIS WEEK.
SAM STERN, “An Entertainer,” that’s all.
TUCKER, the Singing Violinist.
WINIFRED WARD.
THE FOUR VAGABONDS.
ROYAL QUARTETTE. JACK SHIELDS.
VIV ATE k VIVANTI. TWO PHI DLTNERS.
Tivoli t h e a t r e, p'e r t h.
HARRY RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSII.
DOLORES VALLECITA’S Group of Indian Leopards.
GOLDEN ATHLONES, in Postures and Plastiques.
THE DARES. GABRIELLE HOPE.
FREDO BROS. ALEC BLACK.
BIOSCOPE.
PRICES: 3/-, 21- and !/-■ NO EXTRA FEES.
ER MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., have much pleasure in
presenting their STUPENDOUS PANTOMIME
EXTRAVAGANZA, which this year is based upon the
attractive story of
THE FORTY THIEVES.
Written by, Frank Dix. Music by Andrew MacCunn,
PLANS AT PALING’S
Al) ELI* II I TIIEA T It IS. SYI)N IS Y.
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY. LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY’S AMERICAN MUSICAL
COMEDY CO. in the brilliant musical comedy,
THE MAYOR OE TOKIO.
With AMY MURPHY as OLOTO SAN.
Popular Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Nicholson’s.
PA I. AC IS TIIIS A T K IS. SVIIN IS Y.
Direction ALLEN DOONE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE COLLEEN BAWN.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 16,
ALL'EN DOONE
will present, for the first time in Australia, the
Comedy Drama, in four acts, by Langton
McCormick,
THE BURGLAR AND THE LADY.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales, White Rose.
ATIONAI, AMPHITHEATRE, SYDNEY.
Governing Director: BEN J. FULLER.
FULLER-BItENNAN VAUDEVILLE CIRCUIT.
EVERY NIGHT, AT 8.
THE GOYTES. LYONS & CULLUM..
ROYAL BANZAI FAMILY, Japanese Entertainers.
MURIEL ANDREWS & RUBY D.ENT.
FRED SWIFT. HAYES & R. IVES.
THE GREAT WESTIN. GIO ANGF.LO.
THE BRIGHT SISTERS. FRANZ & MOUNIER.
PRICES as usual. Plan at Theatre.
II E L"l TT I E TIIEA T It E
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10 SHARP.
MATINEE THURSDAY AT 2 P.M.
MR. HUGH BUCKLER and MISS VIOLET PAGET
Present the Cleverest Play of the Century,
FANNY’S FtRST PLAY.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
Prices as usual. Day Sale, White Rose.
The imperial saeon de euxe.
FOOT OF WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
Direction BENDRODT k IRVING
DANCING TWICE DAILY, 4 to 6 and 8 to 11.
TANGO TEAS
EVERY TUESDAY AND FRIDAY AFTERNOONS,
4 to 6. Admission, THREE SHILLINGS.
THESPIAN SUPPERS EVERY FRIDAY, from
11 n.m.
ADMISSION, 3/-
TUESDAY, JUNE 2nd, “A NIGHT IN JAPAN.”
A Feature Evening.
You haven’t seen Sydney until vou’ve visited
THE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES,
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL. EMPRESS,
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATKR J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Baukington Miller, General Manager.
y II E O LYMIMA, SYDN E Y .
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“UK.S'i’ OF AUK.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
3d. to 2s. Plans at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee)
g 1’ E N C E R’S S Y I) N E Y.
THE WORLD’S BEST PICTURES.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE—WEDNESDAY, AT 2.30.
A GREAT PROGRAMME, consisting of TOPICAL,
DRAMATIC, SCENIC and COMEDY SUBJECTS.
Prices: 1/6, II- & 6d. Plan at Paling’s & White Rose.
TOURING AU~S T RALIA.
PAUL DUFAULT
PAUL DUFAULT
Assited by:
PAULINE BINDLEY, Soprano.
ERNEST TOY, Violinist.
HAROLD WHITTLE, Pianist.
HIS MAJESTY’S THEATRE—BRISBANE,
MAY 14 to 16.
Direction FREDERICK SHIPMAN.
THE KING’S THEATRE. MEUIIOURNE.
* Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic
Organisation in
THE WORST WOMAN IN LONDON.
POPULAR PRICES.
PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
Amusements.
Her majesty’s theatre, meluoiune.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
First Production in Melbourne of the Popular
REVUE,
COME OYER HERE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 65., 45., 2s. and Is.
Theatre roial, Melbourne.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NE\T SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 16.
Reappearance of FRED NIBLO and JOSEPHINE
COHAN, in
NEVER SAY DIE.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; Gallery, 2/ : . Plan at Allan’s.
KIN CESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE
Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY,' LTD.
Managing Director: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
First Production in Australia of the charming
American Play,
THE ROSA R Y.
Prices-: 5/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-, Plan at Pianola.
rp HE Best Stories written in Australia
1 appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price 6d.
Amusements.
gIJOP XHEAIBIi, ME L B O P H N IS-
FULLER-BRENNAN YAtfDEVILLE CIRCUIT.
CUNNINGHAM & ROSE, Travesty Stars.
CAPT. BRUNSWICK & CO., in “The Troubles of
, a Tenderfoot.”
MANTELL’S MARIONETTES.
LEE CHANDLER GIRLS, Dainty Dancers.
FOUR FLYING LAMYS.
WINIFRED STEWART, the Lady Baritone.
POPULAR PRICES.
N . T A I T
announce the
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW' ZEALAND TOUR OF
s'. HARRY LAUDIiIi.
Adelaide, commencing MAY 16.
Sydney,'*-commencing MAY 30.
- Brisbane, commencing JULY 6.
Auckland, commencing JULY 20.
Wellington, commenting JULY 27.
Christchurch, commencing AUGUST 3.
Dunediir, commencing AUGUST 19.
*'
Harry Lauder in Melbourne has achieved the most
remarkable triumph in the amusement history of
Australia. For four weeks the Princess's Theatre has
been crowded to it's utmost capacity.
— 1
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everything Aus-
tralian. That’s Thk Lon.e Hand. “A
marvellous sixpenn’orth ! ”
J
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
I OP
The National Bank of Australasia Limited.
« ——
The Balance-Sheet of the Bank as on March 31 last, and the Profit and Loss Account for the Half-
year which then terminated, are now submitted to the Shareholders.
The net profit, after deduction of all expenses, including £7126 18s. 6d. for Note, Income and
Land Taxes,
Amounted to ..
Add balance brought forward from previous half-year ..
£94,866 1
16.053 13
Which
Leaving available..
it is proposed to appropriate as follows:
Transfer to Reserve Fund Account (making it £500,000)
Reduction of Bank Premises
Grant to Officers’ Provident Fund
Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum on Preference Strafes
Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum on Ordinary Shares
Carry forward
£110,909 15 2
During the Half-year a new Branch Office was opened at the corner of Collins and William Streets,
Melbourne (Western Branchl : and Branches at King William Street South, Adelaide; and William Street,
Perth ; and the Branches at Lismore, in Victoria; and York, in Western Australia, were closed.
Agencies were established at Lorquon, in Victoria ; Berri, Melton, Stockwell, Mile End and Nailsworth,
in South Australia; and at Manjimup, Ongerup, Watheroo and Bofgart, in Western Australia.
The Ordinary General Annual Meeting will be held at the Board Room, ajt the Bank’s Head Office,
Collins Street, Melbourne, on Wednesday, May 6, at noon, when the Shareholders will be called upon to
elect two Directors in lieu of John Grice and Edward Trenchard, EsquipJs, who retire by rotation, in
accordance with the Articles of Association, and are eligible for re-election. There are no other candidates.
The Shareholders will also be called upon to elect two Auditors for the ensuing year.
By order of the Board Of Directors,
E. H. WREFORD, Chief Manager.
The National Bank of Australasia. Limited.
Head Office, Melbourne, April 23, 1914.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
For the Half-year ended March 31, 1914.
(Including London Office to February 28, 1914, and Western Australian Branches to March 16, 1914.)
. CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Proprietors’ Capital—
-80,578 prefer-
ence shares
’ paid in money
to £lO per
share, £305,780 ;
238,488 fordi-
nary shares,
paid to £ 5
per share,
£1,192,440. . £1,498,220 0 0
To Reserve Fund
465,000 0
Account
Profit and Loss
Account
0
110,909 15 2
~ Notes in cir-
culation .. £38,980 10 0
~ Bills in circu-
lation . . 859,634 15 0
To • Government
• Deposits—-
Not bearing in-
terest, £105,414
19s. Id. ; bear-
ing interest,
£674,802 17s.
lid 780,217 17 0
To Other Deposits : —
Not bearing in-
terest, £4,517,-
469 14s. 2d. ;
bearing inte-
terest, £5,984,-
942 11s. . . 10,502,412 5 2
~ Interest accrued
, and rebate on
current bills 120,477 2 8
~ Balances due
to other banks 229,954 11 10
£2,074,129 15 2
12,537,677 1 8
£14,611,806116 10
To Contingent liability as per con-
tra, £284,019.
ASSETS.
By Coin, bullion,
Australian
notes, and
cash at bankers £2,734,502 3 5
~ G o vernment,
municipal and
other public
stocks, deben-
tures and
~ Real estate, consisting of bank
premises ..
~- Other real estate
~ Bills discounted and other ad-
vances, exclusive of provision
l'or bad and doubtful debts ..
4,873,689 4 5
394,027 0 1
37,443 14 11
9,306,646 17 5
£14,611,806 16 10
By Liability, in the form of a
guarantee of certain shii e ’"d
municipal debentures (Viccor,,.
sold in London, and which arc
being duly provided for by sink-
ing funds, in terms of the Act
authorising their issue, £55,100 ;
and liabilities of customers and
others on letters of credit and
drafts, £228,919, as per contra,
£284,019.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT,
Expenses at head office,
branches and 54 agencies. .
Note, income and land taxes
Balance
166
. . £96,728 0 8
7,126 18 6
.. 110,909 15 2
£214,764 14 4
By Balance brought forward .. £16,053 13 9
„ Gross profits, including recov-
eries, less rebate on bills current',
interest paid and accrued on de-
posits, repairs to premises and
rent £198,711 0 7
£214,764 14 4
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance £465,000 0 0
£465,000 0 0
By Balance last half-year ..
„ Transfer from profit and loss
. £435,000 0 0
. . 30,000 0 0
£465,000 0 0
The customary Auditors’ Report and the Statement of the Directors and Chief Manager to comply
with the Companies Acts (Victoria) appear on the Official report.
E. H. WREFORD, Chief Manager.
Amusements.
OL V M P I A. O L Y JI P I A.
I, V M 1* I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER'S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND I HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
|y| ELBOI' K N IS ULACIARIUM.
ICE-SKAT ING
RE-OPENS
THURSDAY, MAY 14.
\AIK ST’S PALACE, JIEIIiOOKN E
iTie best WEST’S PICTQBEStub best
OF ALL LIMITED. OF ALL
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays.
and All Holidays at 2.30.
Tun Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Anv Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen
at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
Birch & caitr o l l
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE
Business Announcements.
54 1 never
scratch.”
V turn of the head to
the left controls the flow
af ink, fast or slow,
according to your hand-
writing. A turn to the
right shuts off the ink,
and the Onoto becomes
a sealed tube, safe to
carry at any angle.
And, above all, the
Onoto fills itself —in-
stantly—from any ink
supply. Nothing could
be less trouble than the
Onoto—the one really
satisfactory self-filling
Miss Simplicity.
fountain pen. Make it your pen to day. You
can always pick a nib to suit your handwriting.
Onoto
the pen —never scratches.
Price, 12/- and upwards, of ail Stationers, Jewellers,
arid Stores. Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on
application to THOS. DE LA RUE CO., Ltd.,
.175, Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or-the Australasian
Representatives, Normas Baker & Longhurst,
■5O York Street, Sydney.
Ask for Onoto Ink—Best for all Pen*
Rsal Dutch Pipes
30 inches long, only 6/ o
m
Cool and Sweet
THE PERFECTION OF SMOKING
Just Notice how Cheap they are,
less than Half the Usual Prices
ONLY those who have
smoked a Real Dutch
Pipe know how different is
the flavor of tobacco. They
are beautifully made of the
best material, and
we could not sell
them at these prices
if we had not made a
Special Purchase. There
are various styles and
sizes: feet long with
decorated porcelain hbwl,
at 6s. 6d ; 10$ inches lonv,
with fine wooden bowl
ss. 61 ; and lo inches long,
with either plain or deco-
rated bowl, 4s. each. We
pack securely and pay
carriage. Make yourself a
present of one.
m
1034 Inches,
only 5/G
The Union Manufacturing Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LOUD STREET, PERTH, VY.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO
t>B£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
BUNYIP FOREST
DEVIL!
SAVES POUNDS
While CLEARING.
You must clear youi land to make money.
Prosperity follows the plougln Big trees,
huge boulders, ugly stumps all give way to
the “BUNYIP” FOREST DEVIL, that roots
them out as though they were weeds. Simple
to work, economical and durable. Write.
John Cooper 8 Sons,
287-9 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, Victoria.


Burning Irritation, Worse Night
and Morning. Cuticura Soap and
Cuticura Ointment Cured. Also
Used Them for Scalp Trouble,
Caroona, Via Quirindi, N. S. W. — ‘A
email rash came on my chest and shoulders,
with a burning irritation, which would get
worse night and morning and then the itch-
ing would go for a while. This lasted for
two years, during which time I bathed it
with different lotions with little permanent
effect. At last I determined to try Cuticura
Soap and Ointment. I used to bathe the
parts with the Cuticura Soap and then put
the Cuticura Ointment on, and I could feel
relief in a very short time, so I kept on till
I was cured, and I have had no return of the
trouble for about twelve months.
“Cuticura Soap and Ointment I have
found are really good for the scalp and stop
the hair from falling out. I am sure there
is nothing to equal the Cuticura Soap and
Ointment, and I have heard several say so
besides myself.” (Signed) S. Brown, Feb-
ruary, 1913.
TO REMOVE DANDRUFF
Prevent falling hair, remove crusts and
scales, and allay itching and irritation of
the scalp, frequent shampoos with Cuticura
Soap, assisted by occasional dressings with
Cuticura Ointment, afford the speediest and
most economical treatment. They assist in
promoting the growth and beauty of the
hair by removing those conditions which
tend to make it dry, thin, and lifeless, often
leading to premature grayness and loss of
hair. Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Oint-
ment are sold throughout the world. Lib-
eral sample of each mailed free, with 32-p.
Skin Book. Address R. "Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Puts Stomach,
Liver and Bowels
in Fine Condition
To pror Iptly end the misery of consti-
pation to/pid liver, sick headache, indi-
gestion, dizziness and nausea, you must
use CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS. They
never fail —that’s why
millions use them.
Vim,vigor,vitality,
and a clear com-
plexion are the
resultoftheir
use. You
need them.
m
Carters
■ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The
GENUINE
must bear
signature
mm
»'/<*?
„ 'A
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
age, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. B.
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. B. ALLEN S iu.s.ao
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suitable
for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
m
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Asr nts for Australia.
P VGES FOR EVERTWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New
Zealand. MTAT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors—The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; The Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; The
Hon James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black,M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. E. Winchombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
Knox, Esq., K.C. ; Sir Alex. MacCormick, M.D. General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teece, F.1.A.,
F.F.A., F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE; 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY. Secretary.
The Danger of
CATARRH
The clanger of breathing
in germs is very real
and ever-present. The
peril is doubled if you
have Catarrh. The
moist, mucous - laden
surfaces most annoy-
ing in themselves —are
a most attractive breed-
ing place for the dan-
gerous, and often life-
destroying, germs of
Tonsilitis, Influenza and
Diphtheria, and, most
dreadful of all, CON-
SUMPTION !
a—*
Air-Passages of the Nose and Throat.
‘KAT-AR-AH " Treatment helps Nature put
them in good working order, in which conai-
tion it is impossible for Catarrh to exist.
You have Catarrh ! YOU can tell that by the
uncomfortable stuffiness in the nose, the constant
sniff, sniff, caused by moist accumulations, the
difficulty of breathing, the constant necessity of
clearing the throat by “hawking,” and the frequent
use of the handkerchief to blow the nose. Or
you may suffer from frontal headaches, your
hearing be affected, have noises in the head,
sneeze frequently or awake with a heavy, tired
feeling. Do not live in danger of Catarrh
developing into something worse, such as Deaf-
ness, Asthma, Catarrh of the Stomach, or
Consumption.
Free to Sufferers.
I want all who are afflicted with Catarrh to try a sample bottle ol
“ Kat-ar-ah ” Inhalant at mj r expense. It is a synthetic com-
pound of certain valuable medicaments, and is supremely bene-
ficial in its influence on the mucous membrane. It has a
distinctly soothing, healing and sero-sanative effect, sufficient
to disintegrate and dislodge the slimy mucous accumulations.
“Kat-ar-ah” is first aid to Catarrh sufferers. Its healing
effects are simply marvellous. You can notice an improvement
immediately after beginning its use. It quickly takes up its
work of killing the disease germs, of minimising, and eventually
stopping, the discomforting mucous discharges in the nose and
throat—mucous that is finding its way into your stomach and
poisoning your system.
You are invited to send at once for a FREE TRIAL BOTTLE
of “Kat-ar-ah” Inhalant and a copy of my new and wonder-
fully-interesting Booklet, telling how to get rid of this terrible
scourge. Write to-day. Give your name and address clearly,
state whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss, be sure to mention this paper
and enclose 3d. in stamps to help pay postage, etc.
HERBERT HERDER, 2 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Hunyadi Janos
A* a remedy for Piles (otherwise Hemorrhoids), Hunyadi Janos
Natural Aperient Water is world-famous. It is supplied just as
Nature creates it and is speedy and certain in giving relief.
It relieves the conjested veins, creates soft, easy motions and acts
beneficially in every way.
Hunyadi Janos is also a well-known specific for such everyday com-
plaints as Constipation, Liver Troubles, Biliousness and Indigestion,
It is inexpensive and your chemist stocks it.
The Famous NATURAL Aperient Water
The Inky Way.
“G.D.M.”: One of the U.S. State Courts —that
of Ohio —laid it down last month that the secretary
of the Columbus (Ohio) Council had no right to
exclude the public from the latter’s meetings. The
principle put forward by the Court was that news
of a public nature belongs, of right, to the public,
or, in other words, to the newspapers. It would be
interesting to get a local judgment on the matter.
Take, for instance, that typical Star Chamber, the
Melbourne City Council, which transacts so much of
its business by means of committees, some of which
have not met for nine months. Reporters are not
allowed to attend any of them, and the ratepayers
have never in 60 years so much as suspicioned what
goes on during their deliberations. What a gracious
reform it would be if the Melbourne councillors were
forced to at all times admit the press to their dis-
cussions. And the Melbourne Council typifies many
smaller concerns all over the Commonwealth.
* * * *
A recent death in London journalistic circles that
attracts attention here was that of “Captain Coe,” of
the London Star. The Star was started (no pun) in
1887, when Passmore Edwards of the Evening News
took his popular ha’penny evening paper over from
Gladstonian principles to Unionism, thus leaving the
Liberals of the metropolis without a single evening
paper to barrack for them. The Star was run by a
well-known Radical professor named Stuart, who sat
for Hoxton (Horful ’Oxton), and the money
that was put into the new venture came from
the wealthy, wowsery, Quakery family of the Cad-
burys, of cocoa fame. The new paper was vimful and
loaded with fight to the muzzle, but it didn’t really
take with the ’orny-’anded, in whose interests it had
been started, until “Captain Coe,” by a series of
phenomenally successful racing tips, gave it a vogue
among all classes. It was a common thing to see
people who were anything but Radical in politics buy
the Star, assimilate “Captain Coe’s” tips, and—
fling the rag away ! Professor Stuart was very indig-
nant to think that his slashing leaders and thunderous
declamation, and really excellent “Personal” column
—one of the first and best things of its sort London
journalism ever saw—were over-shadowed by the
sporting column of “Captain Coe.” But so it was.
The “Captain,” whose real name was Edgar Card
Mitchell (and he was a card, too) was more thought
of by the class that really read the Star than many
politicians. He left the staggering sum of £6569
earned on the Inky Way, and his one son, who is a
clerk on the Stock Exchange, gets the lot. But
the old man, who was a wag in private life, has also
left, with his last will and testament, a final joke for
the Londoners to laugh over. He bequeathed to his
son “the sole right to use the name, ‘Captain Coe,’
on his paying to my trustees the sum of £lO, and
entering into a covenant with them that he will
NEVER GAMBLE, nor give up his regular STOCK
EXCHANGE WORK”!
“M.”: Everybody who went through the mill on
the Melbourne press knew and liked Tom Monaghan
(of the Herald), now dead at the age of 75. We
would have believed anything about Tom's age, for
he seemed to have been in the game from the begin-
ning. Among many titles to fame, Tom could boast
of being a J.P., and he knew more about the work
of Petty Sessions than many of Melbourne’s weird
honorary magistrates. He had no reverence for his
brother justices. I have seen Tom rise up from
the press bench in Melbourne City Court, when P.M.
Panton wasn’t there, to say indignantly to the old
fossils up above, “’Ere, ’ere, you can’t do that!”
It was when they tried to hang a man for loitering,
or something of the sort. When Tom stood up to
direct the law in the way it should go he was
generally right.
Another cry from Macedonia disguised as Wood-
ville, Maoriland. The local Examiner lets it go.
“Will our readers and advertisers please excuse us
if we take advantage of the New Year season to re-
mind them that the printer cannot live upon air. .. .
We have on our books the names of subscribers who
have never paid a subscription for the past five or
six years. Some of these subscribers are people who
could well afford to buy the whole Argus plant half
a dozen times over, and never miss the outlay....
We would ask those who are interested in the mat-
ter to show a little consideration for the printer,
and surprise and delight him by ‘squaring the yards’
early this year....We would respectfully ask these
people to give us a ‘square deal’ in this matter,
recognise their legitimate responsibilities and pay
up. We don’t see how anyone can hope to get to
Heaven if he leaves his newspaper bill unpaid—
it must be an impossibility.”
• * * *
“H. 0.”: The other day I picked up “The Four
Faces,” the latest potboiler by William Le Quex, a
man who writes about how countesses steal despatches
from amorous diplomatists, and invents mysteries
which baffle their author absolutely and keep him
wondering about what is going to happen in the next
chapter. The central character of “The Four Faces”
was born in Melbourne. As Le Quex puts it, Huges-
son Gastrell is “a gentleman, although an Aus-
tralian.” Just when we thought we were getting rid
of our English birth-stains, and had commenced to
hope that all our relations in Whitechapel were dead!
THE OUTSIDERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They don’t even take any notice of England.
— Melba, on the people of the United States.
Good Ged!
And can the blighters live? Dammit! Eh, what!
D’ye mean to say they’ve never heard
Of Asquith, don't you know, and Churchill, don’t you
know ?
Well now, upon my word!
Oh, come, come, I say, surely not!
It can’t be done, you know ; it just can’t be done;
No fellow does it, you know ; no fellow ;
It’s a beastly country, reahlly, don’t you know; it’s
run
By a rotten lot of bounders ; yellow newspapers, you
know ; yellow.
Not notice England ? Oh, I say!
Bosh, old man ; bosh ;
Tosh, old chap ; tosh !
England’s all right! What? What? What?
These outsiders! Oh, dash it all, what rot!
Hang it, old boy.
Think just a bit. Think !
Haven’t we got a navy, don’t you know?
Boast beef, don’t you know? British gravy, don’t
you know ?
Speak through their noses, don’t they?
Trusts, and Presidents, and long speeches, ain’t they?
Not notice England—Oh, come off, old chap !
Have they ever been to Henley, the bounders?
Don’t play county cricket, do they? Some kind of
rounders.
Fond of divorce courts, old chap;
Rotten outsiders in sports, old chap ;
Lot of bally drummers ;
Beastly cads and newcomers ;
Dammit, how many of the blighters have got grand-
fathers ?
Oh, go steady, old fellow!
Did they ever taste English mutton?
Or good old British beef ?
Wouldn’t know it if they saw it, that’s my belief.
And you tell me they don’t care a button !
British beef—you say they supply it?
Well, I deny it.
I say, old cocky, I say !
You needn’t tell me I’ve got to thank
Any demined advertising Yank.
Half-convicts, they are perhaps,
Like—i forget their name —those other chaps.
Never notice England ? Tommyrot!
Then how can the beggars stay on earth?
NJ6.W.
PERCY DE FITZPARAGUS.


The Recognised Leading House for all
SMOKERS & SHAVERS’ REQUISITES
PIPES,
f'9
•N.L. Pipes, made from finest quality old
liriar root, with superior hand-cut Para vul-
canite mouthpieces. Heavy Silver mounts.
All shapes •»/- each (post free)
m
m
“Goudron,” finest quality
Natural Block
Meerschaum Pipes.
THE
SWEETEST
AND
COOLEST
SMOKING
PIPES EVER PRODUCED.
Para Vulcanite Mouthpieces, in case,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 14/G, 16/6, 21/-
each (post free).
Natural Pressed Amber Mouthpieces,
in case,
12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 18/6, 25/- each
(post free).
CIGARS
QUALITE
OS LUXE.
“Golden Key”
Cigars, of exquisite
aroma and infinite
cliarm.
The Standard
of Luxury
in Smoking.
m
Put up in cedar cabinets containing—
-25 cigars, 11/6; 50 cigars, 22/6
■ (post free).
Sample boxes of 5 cigars, 2/6 (post
free).
CIGARETTES.
Delightful, Fascinating
“Three Witches”
Cigarettes, made-from
selected, sun-ripe
Virginian Tobacco.
Finest quality.
5/- per 100 (post
free;.
( JHREE WITCH^S
fh
a. Sons b
TOBACCOS.
“Sunol,” highest grade Virginian, awarded 4
gold medals. Dark or Light. In |)lu«' or
cut, 6/- per lb. (post free).
“Lonus” Smoking Mixture, choicest tobaccos,
skilfully blended. Put up in 2oz. tins.
8/6 per lb. (post free).
Tobacco Pouches.
H
A
N
D
Y
wm-
m,
i
m
m®
c
0
M
P
A
C
T
Wallet Pouch, Split Calf 2/9 each
>■ » Real Morocco .. 3/6 ....
» .. Calf Crocodile . . 4/6
» .. Gazelle 5/- „
» „ Velvet Calf .... 6/6 ...
m
POCKET LIGHTERS.
The “Sunol” Pocket
Lighter. Every smoker
should have one. Simple
in construction. Nothing
to get out of order.
2/- each (post free).
CIGAR and CIGARETTE
HOLDERS.
Amber Cigar Holders, silver rim,
in case, 6/6, 7/6 each.
Amber Cigar Holders, sold rim,
in case, 10/6, 11/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, silver
rinl ’ in ease 4/- 4/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, gold rim, in
case 7/6, 8/6 ea ch.
SHAVING SETS.
N
O
1'
H
N
Q
m
B
E
T
T
E
R
Shaving Sets, comprising 1 renowned C. 8.8.
Razor, 1 C. 8.8. Razor Strop, 1 Badger Ilair
Shaving Brush, and stick Williams’s Soap—-
18/6 (post free).
RAZORS
R
E
Q
u
A
L
T
Y
The “Hitite” Razor, pronounced by experts
to be absolutely perfect. None to
equal it. Kept in good order for 2 years,
free of charge—-
Vulcanite Handle 7/G each (post free).
Ivory Handle • • 10/G each (post free).
SAFETY RAZORS.
The Celebrated “Auto Strop” Safety
Razor, complete with 12 blades and strop,
in leather case 22/0 (post free).
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
Head Depot: Hay market, Sydney
Branches : CITY, SUBURBS and NEWCASTLE.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dogr’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
STEVBJNS
“VISIBLE LOADING”
RIFLE NO. 70
The most accurate .22 calibre Repeat-
ing Rifle in the World.
Handles, 15 .22 short and 12 .22 long rifle
cartridges.
Unexcelled for small game and target prac-
tice.
Apply for latest catalogs and detailed infor-
mation to
P)
If
mu
m
m
Om.llv
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms and Too' Company,
G.P.O. Box 86, Adelaide, South Australia. [?
REMINGTON
UMC
Vl
<£*
•b°
&
*(0
>
%
22 Calibre
Cartridges
for targef and.
small game sbooting
This target records 10 shots at
100 yards.
It was made by J. Pepe of the London
Daily Telegraph. It is conceded by Euro-
pean authorities to be the best and most
centrally placed group ever made. Mr.
Pepe had fired 9000 shots from the rifle
with which he made this score—an eloquent
testimony to the non-destructive, non-lead-
ing qualities of Remington-UMC ammunition.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
New York London
P.
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
O. Box 686 Melbourne
For sale by leading dealers everywhere
SCHUTE, BELL, &. Co., Ltd.
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. 1 Why not gile them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET,!SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1013 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrik
England, (id. How to Gut Rich, is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent I'mund, is Od. Nkd Donnelly's Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition. 40 engravings, Is.
llow to Dance, Is, post. How to \Vrkstlk, Is. Moll
Plandf.rs, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiib
Horse, is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datf, Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Gd posted. Riddle of this
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, l/G.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticketwriting Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyuook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is Gd. How to
Make Love, is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s Gd. Aiist. Miners’ Gun>F.(simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: nost, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is Gd. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Nor Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d
God and My Neighbor, Gd. Britain for the
British, Gd. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses
3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
»nd Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taugiit 1/3
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. ’Nf.w
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science
10s Gd. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, is cd"!
m
9
g
1
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN* HOME TALK.”
Br Dr. E. E. FOOTE..
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old. but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting- their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANA* address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER to the commonwealth.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LONE
BUSINESS, F UTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
at Cards, Is 3d. -Vl ktal-working for Ama-
tkurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to \ amp on Piano. Is. Piano Toning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle s
Card Games (Rules for ail Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River 4s
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor .Magic, Is
posted. Ihk* \Y urn: Slave Tkaffic, Is. Evkiiv
Man His Own Carpenter, is 3d. Ready Reckoner
AND IjIGIITNING CALCULATOR, Is. TIIE DOCTOR, CUre<
for all fliseases, Is 3d posted. Letter YVriter Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple inewj, 4s ' Gd.
Self Instructor : Every Max His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinkt Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, it Other Verses, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee's Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne. Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
AH these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. HRf-Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
’ z *
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 St 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL, IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Makk Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage Is
posted. IN' kw Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genu/ne,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Ur. Mi word's Mid-
wikk’s Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotlk, 3/fi. Adam Ij. Gor.don’s Pokms, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions op tiik
King, Is 2d. Guidk to Auctionkkring, 2s. fid. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
.Morgan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 3d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingkrsolls Works, Sd, 2s. How to Rkad Hkads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciikvassk’s Advice to a
VVIKK, 3s fid "posted. WONDERFUL BUDGKT SONG
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bknnarr Macfadden's Works, all at 5s posied.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. Tiif, Wife's Handbook;
1 s2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Headings, Is 3J. Nervousness and
Its Cure., Is 2d posted. Webster's Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.. leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvovancr,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is fid posted. The Age of Reason, bv Paine
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


A Noted New Zealand Composer Praises
REXONA
ft
V V -w
Mr. J. C. ULYDE
worn a p/ioto.)
Mr. J. C. Clyde, the famous
musician and composer, is not only
well known in his own country and in
Australia, but is much thought of in
America on account of his brilliant
production, “The Earthquake,” writ-
ten at the time of the great catas-
trophe in San Francisco. All who
know Mr. Clyde will read with inter-
est his letter in praise of Rexona and
Laxo-Tonic Fills.
“Your Rexona Ointment is the
best that I have ever used to keep
the hands and wrists soft and
pliable,” writes Mr. J. C. Clyde,
Kamo, North Auckland, N.Z.
“After severe piano practice
Rexona Ointment relieves and
strengthens the wrists and finger
joints.
When tired out with too much
teaching and study, I find that
Laxo-Tonic Pills soon relieve the
depressed feeling that generally
follows the hard application of
study.”
Everybody's Using it Now.
There are so many uses for Rexona that a pot of this New Rapid Healing Oint-
ment should be kept in every home. One day it may be useful to relieve the bites of
insects, another day to heal, the Cuts, Bruises or Scalds which are for ever occurring
m everyday life. Again for the more serious complaints, such as Bad Legs Piles
Eczema, Ringworm, and the various forms of Skin Disease, Rexona is a ’proved
remedy. 1
In this Ointment are combined juices and essences in an entirely uew and uniuue
manner, forming a remedy justly celebrated as a Rapid Healer.
liey is ' sold in triangular pots at 1/ti. or iu larger pots, holding nearly four
times the quantity, at 3/-
o
o
0
THE RAPID HEALER
The GREA T PAIN-KILLER.
nr
g>
uu
The Positive, SAFE Cure for
HEADACHE and NEURALGIA.
SUFFERERS from these torturing ailments will
welcome the advent of Dr. Stohr’s Ivephaldol.
Hitherto the use of most so-called remedies has
been attended with the gravest danger on account of
their injurious effect on the heart and other organs.
Ivephaldol may be taken with absolute safety. In
thousands of cases it acts instantaneously— acts where
other remedies have proved useless. Yet its use is<
never attended by any ill after-effects. It has been
recognised as a perfectly harmless remedy by the medi
cal profession, who have made regular and prolonged
trials of it in their clinics, on thousands of patients.
Get a tube of Ivephaldol from your chemist to-day, and
never be without a supply.
m
Kl 14
For Lumbago:
V'
KL 15
Until now there lias been no certain remedy for
the Lumbago sufferer. All who are subject to
this painful attention know well the suherings
that characterise it: stiffening of the back, im-
possibility of making the slightest movement
without agonising pain—enforced rest and im-
mobility, etc. To-day there is no reason to
suffer any longer—Kephaldol will positively
relieve and cure you. This marvellous remedy
has the power of acting on the lumbar nerves at
the exact source of the evil, and a couple of
tablets taken at the beginning of the attack
will quickly disperse your pains, never to return.
Kephaldol is equally effective even if your Lum-
bago is of long standing. Relief will be almost
immediate, and in a few days the pains will be
dispersed entirely. Kephaldol is a safe and
certain cure for Lumbago, endorsed by thou-
sands of medical men throughout the world.
Sold in Tubes by Chemists and Storekeepers.
Prices, 1/6 and 3/6.
See what the Doctors say
“I have used Kephaldol in Neuralgic
Headache with very good results. As an
efficient antineuralgic it is a thing not
to be missed.”
—Hr. J. Ross, M. 8., Pen'stone, Yorks.
■‘l have pleasure in stating that
Kephaldol was tried in a ease of Lum-
bago with a rapidly beneficial result.”
—Dr. .1. Johnson, Stoke-on-Trent.
// »»)/ difficulty in procuring locally, a tube will he seal post free direct by the
Manufacturers upon receipt of postal note to value of tube desired.
KEPHALDOL CO., 30 Ash Street, Sydney . [48 og
Sydney.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SHE bathes in brazen glory
Beneath the brazen sun,
Where Strength and Mirth have
greatest worth
Of all the goodly things of earth,
And Heaven’s gifts have none:
From dreams and their disquiets
From fear and faith set free,
She fights and laughs and riots
Beside the roaring sea.
She knows no mystic torment
Of anxious questioning,
When broods the heart on things apart,
And out beyond all mortal art
The'trembling soul takes wing.
But as the fauns ran shrieking
When squealed the flutes of Pan,
Her own mad revel seeking
She ends as she began.
She is no mistress tender
To stir with questing sighs;
Nor will she yield to Him whose shield
Holds a pale Cross upon its field
Before her burning eyes :
She knows no other master,
And hears no other lord
But him who comes the faster
To take her with the sword.
Go through her clanging traffic
That swings and sweeps and sways.
Where elves and sprites of modern nights
Dismiss with new and strange delights
The gods of earlier days :
No Oread shyly peering,
No Virgin lily-fair,
But wilder nymphs careering
With furious hymnal there.
When strides her steel-shod hero
Across her martial hour.
The market-place receives his face,
His battle is a golden race
To coin and fame and power:
No mercy comes to soften
The ruthless fighting host;
He gains who crushes often.
He wins who crushes most.
There no man shrinks from ruin,
And no man spares to smite;
Hut friend and foe hail every blow
That sends a smitten head below
With fulminant delight:
lie may not sue for favor
Who fails with broken breath:
’Twas his to know the savor
Of victory or of death.
No peace of a Redeemer
Descends, a gentle dove,
In that fierce air which everywhere
Reigns pitiless above despair—-
And no forgiving love :
But all things meek and lowly
The steel-shod foot will spurn ;
Nor love nor hate is holy,
And both are quick to burn.
But when her lusty spearmen
Have flung their spears aside,
Her veil is shed from feet to head,
And she is flamed in white and red
Of naked, shameless pride:
A harlot unexampled,
Her glory is in this —
Who worst was torn and trampled
May have her face to kiss.
All damned and God-forgotten
They lurk in her Domain ;
All night they meet, the broke, the beat,
G ith faces marred by cruel feet,
Yet are they in her train ;
Though misery enslaves them.
And drowns them in the dirt.
This royal city saves them
While they may touch her skirt.
No man so wan and wounded,
So stunned by battle-noise,
But her hot face will give him grace
Once more to join the reckless race
And taste its fiery joys :
Anew to make alliance
With hope that flared before,
And step with bold defiance
Into the lists once more.
Around her dazzling beaches
Her children ripen all;
And some will wail and some will fail
And some will swing a cruel flail
To watch the weaker fall:
But whether Fate discovers
The trampler or the trod,
They all shall be her lovers,
And none will dream of God.
In Sydney, Mirth and Slaughter
Go marching cheek-by-cheek,
And no man cares how each man dares
To grasp and capture unawares
The prizes all men seek ;
The gift is theirs who win it,
To reive and bear away,
For few will care a minute.
And none will weep a day.
Upon her hills in riot
Roars Life, its whole life long;
She does not stoop to sift and scoop.
Nor cares she what may surge or droop,
T So it be glad and strong:
Unvexed, unnitying, tearless
Swift to exalt or strike.
She lies in splendor, fearless
Of God and man alike.
N.s.w.
ADAM McCAY.
The Thrum Lord.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE educated man of Bay Mansions had
wandered into the question of values,
and it somehow came up that the
cheapest thing on earth is life itself. “The
value of life is mostly that which you esti-
mate individually, or personally,” 'he said.
“You must not be led away by insurance."
That would go for nothing by way of argu-
ment. A man insures for what he An
afford. The real value of life lies in the
usefulness of a man to his fellow-men and
it naturally follows that the hiedier a man’s
station, and the more powerful 'his influence
over other men, the more valuable lie is to
the world, or the section of the world where
his influence lies.”
“What price an English lord, then?” asked
Stinker Williams.
"You can’t put a value on a lord because
he is a lord,” said the man of knowledge.
"His value might not be much greater than
yours or mine, which ain’t worth tuppence,
and, on the other hand, his life might be
beyond estimating. It depends on what sort
of a lord he is. A lord might be a Prime
Minister.”
“Well, the bloke I means is a bloke wot
goes _ about layin’ foundation-stones, en
openin’ of bazaars en exhibitions, en dresses
in a grey suit, en wears a grey top ’at. He
ain’t exactly a lord, either ; ’e’s an ’lghness.”
“A what?”
“An ’lghness. That’s wot yer gotter call
’im when yer has ter speak to him.”
“Do yer mean a prince?”
“All I know about it is that the other
blokes useter call ’im an ’lghness when
ennybody else wuz about, but when they wuz
alone together they useter call ’im Jim! But
wot I wants to know is ’ow much wuz ’is
life worth?”
“How do I know? Maybe half a million.”
“It wuz worth a frum.”
“What rot!”
“A frum —not a penny more. 1 knew
becos he told me so ’imself, or as good as.”
“Did you know him?”
Stinker nodded his head, and after letting
his importance in being the friend of an
’lghness sink in, he said:—
“I got three vallies from that bloke. I
got the vall.y of his life, the vally of bein’
honest, en the vally of bein’ his friend.”
“ ’Ow did yer get to know him, Stinker?”
asked one of the others.
“Yer knows ’ow fond I am of scenery.
Whenever I sees good scenery I gets sleepy,
en I’ll lie for hours among it. It wuz when
the lord I speak of wuz doin’ a trip frough
Australia, en ’avin’ a good time layin’
stones en lings like that, I wus up on the
cliffs at South ’Ead, more asleep than awake,
when I ’ears voices en I notices two blokes
m grey suits of clobber en grey top-hats,
standin’ on the edge of the cliff, a-lookin’
at the water beneath, en laughin’ at
the mayor en mayoress of some town
they’d bin to. En I noticed the
ground beneath the lord bloke wuz
breakin’ away under ’is weight, en I rushes
up en grabs ’im be the coat-tails en hauls
im back, en soon after the rock under ’im
went down flop on to (he rocks beneaf.
“ ’P wuz a little bloke, not much ter look
at, but ’e could be mad. my oaf. When ’e
got up ’e says: ‘Damned impertinence,
what!’ Yer see, I’d pulled him so ’ard he’d
sat down. I thought he would ’ave struck
me wif ’is stick, on’y the secrety interfered,
en when ’e saw the rock had gone, ’e’ said
puffin’, an’ just walked to the carriage. Then
’e ’ad a bit of guiver wif the secrety, en ’e
beckoned me up. I could see ’e wuz goin’ to
give me somefing, so I came up wif me two
palms turned into a basin.”
My man,’ he says, ‘ ’ave a beeah, what.’
En ’e told the coachman to drive off, en I
found ’e’d guv me a frum. When I knowed
’im better I knowed ’e’d ’ave guv me ’alf a
crown, _ on’y the secrety told ’im I’d only
spend it in drink en make a beast of meself.
I ust fing I fought of when ’e’d gone wuz
1° run m after ’ iin en frow the frum in his
face, lhen I fought that a beer wouldn't
be a bad idea .instead. En besides that, T
a • ~ e liPle bloke. I know some of yous
Socialist blokes finks lords en dukes are a
bad lot, en yous might be right, but this lord
tepp m e fancy. ’E ’ad a habit of sayin’
What, en everyfing was damned, en ’e ’ad
a bone, in the bridge of ’is nose that looked
as if it would break the skin - frough, en
little round eyes you couldn’t tell what ’e
was finking about, en I don’t fink he useter
fink. much enny way. Ee ’ad two ways of
talking’, one when ’e wuz wif his friends, en
one when ’e laid stones truly. When ’e laid
stones you’d fink ’e wuz full of wind, on’y ’e
knowed ’ow to let it come out if ’e took care
en if he didn’t take care it would burst out
like a bladder wot boys ’ave made into a
rootball. \v hen I useter go en see ’im lay
stones I useter wish ’e’d forget ’ow to talk
so as the wind would come out suddent. My
oaf it wuz funny to listen to ’im, but no-
body useter laugh becos it wuz on’y his
friends who knew ’e could talk like you en
me. The public in general fought it wuz
the proper way for a lord ter talk. Of
course, he usen’t to say ‘What,’ en damn
everyfing then.
“When I got .back to where the rock ’ad
dropped I found a pocket-book Ivin’ there,
en when I opened it I found it wuz full of
bank papers en. notes. It must ’ave dropped
out of the little bloke’s pocket when I pulled
un back. Well, I sat down en wondered
wot I'd do wif it. en I fought I’ll guv it
back to ’im. I'll be ’onest. Ennyway, it
would 'ave been a fool’s game stickin’ to it.
It wuz too big for me.
“When I got inter town I came upon a
lot of people waiting on both sides of the
road, en some slops on ’orses makin’ the
’orses back the people wif their rumps, en
suddenly I saw the little bloke come down
the street in a carriage, en ’ere wuz me
after ’im for all I wuz worf. The slops
on the ’orses left off jambin’ the people back
ter give chase ter me. They must ’ave
fought I ’ad a bomb for 'is ’lghness- But I
dodged ’em like greased lightnin’. en when
the carriage came to where they’d put some
carpet down for the little bloke to walk on.
I rushes up eu says -
‘“Did you drop this, guv’nor?’
“ ‘W’v. if it ain’t my damned preserver,
what!’ he savs to the secrety. En then
when ’e’d taken the pocket-book, ’e said:
'Do you know WO f wuz in the book?’ he
says. En I says. ‘Yes, mate.’ En ’e says,
‘Wlio’d ’ave thought it, what!’ ”
“What did he give you, Stinker?”
“Five sovrings,” said Stinker. “En ’e
told me to go an’ get blind wif it. which
showed ’e wasn’t such a bad little bloke if
’e wuz on’y let. But the sovrings didn’t do
me much good, becos one of the slops who
seed me rushing down after the little bloke
reckernised me en arrested me es a vagrant,
en for creatin’ a disturbance, en ’e whacked
the five sovrings wif another slop who ’elped
search me at the police station. I got a
monf.”
“But I thought you said you became
friends with the aristocrat,” said the man
who had been educated.
“That wuz after I came out. T wuz pass-
in’ one of the big buildings whim a bloke in
a room frew out the end of a cigar, en just
when I wuz stoopin’ to pick it up, ’e said,
‘Damn it_all, if it isn’t the honest tramp
( Continued, on next page.)


THAT BACKACHE
WARNS YOU !
z 7
NN
M
<S.M
S* 8 " h
V N
=f-
\/\
l
UJ
r
— \ \
s>
u Every
Picture
Tells a
Story.”
Do YOU get Pains in the Loins and Back?
Gravel? Dropsical Swellings? Rheumatism?
Kidney and Bladder Trouble is Serious!
Backache is generally misunderstood. Many people
neglect it because they believe it to be muscular weakness
due to overwork. So they wait for it to pass off.
But when backache does not pass off we know that the
pain comes not from the back, but from the kidneys, which lie
beneath the back.
It is a warning, and it is a serious warning, for when the
kidneys are weak the uric-acid poison they leave in the blood
begins to spread all over the system —-
Makes your back ache, your limbs ache —settles into
urinary sediment or gravel, which irritates the bladder and
keeps it in a constant state of discomfort —clogs the urinary
channels and stops the free passage of water, causing the
swellings of dropsy —forms into sharp, jagged crystals in the
muscles, joints and nerves, as in rheumatism and sciatica.
If you have any of these symptoms, begin with Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills without delay, for the longer kidney
trouble is neglected the harder it is to cure. Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills gently lead the kidneys back to health and
activity. They relieve the urinary system like laxative
medicines relieve the bowels. They prevent waste water from
staying too long in the body, and they drive out the uric acid
poison which causes the above symptoms and many more.
TWO LASTING CURES.
13 YEARS CURED.
Mr. A. F. Hely, Anona, Holden Street, Ashfield, Sydney, says:
“There is a lot of stooping to be done in the work at the forge and anvil,
and the result often is backache, and a sort of racking pain in the
kidneys; such has been my experience for years. I always got a feeling
of intense soreness in the back upon trying to stand up after stooping,
also a dull pain between the shoulders. I tried lots of medicines which
did me no good, and this made me think I would never be cured. How-
ever, Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills drove all these aches and pains
from me. 1 have a good word to say for these Pills, for I have proved
them the best kidney remedy to be procured.”
Thirteen years later, Mrs. Hely says:—“My husband’s cure has
stood the test of time: he is still free of backache, and has been for
the past thirteen years.”
12 YEARS CURED.
Mrs. C. I. Hunt, Music Teacher, S 3 Sheppard-street, Marrickville,
says:— “For years I have been using one remedy after another, trying
to get relief from aching pains in my back. These pains were very
trying. I could not move about without getting a severe twinge, and at
night my rest was broken. A friend recommended Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, and it was good advice, for I got relief after a few doses,
and a thorough course completely banished the pain. I did not write
sooner, as I wished to test my cure, and now that I have been well for
some time I am quite justified in saying that I am cured for good/.
Twelve years later Mrs. Hunt says :■ —“Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills are worth their weight in gold, for they cured my aching back
twelve years ago, and I have been free of the ailment ever since. ’
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and Store-
keepers at 2/9 per bottle; or posted on receipt of price by r oster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street. Sydney.
S.NVOQ
Backache
Kidney
PHIS,
turned up, what!’ En he said, ‘Drop that
en come inside, en I’ll guv yer a whole one,
what.’ There ’e wuz, the little bloke wif
his nose breakin’ the skin as usual, but very
red in the face, on’y the burstin’ skin keepin’
white, which wuz very noticeable. En ’e
wuz speakin’ fick. ’E says, ‘I am glad to
see you, what! ’Ave a whisky en soda,
damn it.' En ’e started to shout out,
‘Brown, Brown,’ so’s you could hear ’im a
mile off. Brown wuz the bloke in buttons
who looked after the whisky. Before Brown
came back wif the whisky, the little bloke
started hollerin’ again. ‘Jones ! Jones!’ en
another bloke in buttons come in, en the
little bloke says, ‘Damn it, take this man
away eu give ’im a barf, what!’ When
Jones went to take ’old of me I told ’im I’d
stiffen 'im, en the little bloke says, ‘lf you
can’t give ’im a barf yourself, get assistance,
what!’ Jones went out en Brown came in,
en I got the whisky en soda, en drunk it,
eu then Jones come in wif the hall porter,
en the free of them set on me, en I put up
the light of me life wif them. We ’ad the
furniture bumped all over the place, en the
little bloke wuz standin’ among the silver
on the sideboard singing out where they wuz
to git ’old of me. At last he signed for ’em
to leave off, en he said, ‘Wot’s yer objection
ter being washed, what?’ En I said, ‘lt’s
against me religion.’ En ’e said, ‘Wot re-
ligion is that, what?’ En I said, ‘l’m a
Baptist.’ En ’e said, ‘W’.v, they’re people
who get: washed when they’re baptised,
what.’ En I said, ‘Yes, but we take oavs
after not to wash off the water we gets
baptised in.’ En ’e said, ‘Oh, well, do you
object to gettin’ sprayed?’ En I said ‘no.’
En ’e sent for the barber en a boy wif a
ling like a bellows wot puffs out carbolic
powder, en the barber ’ad his little bottles
wot you squirts with a little rubber bulb.
Then the lord bloke en me sat down, en we
smoked cigars en drunk whisky en soda, en
talked, or rafer ’e made me talk, en all the
time the little boy wif the bellows squirted
nice-smellin’ powder at me, en on the other
side the barber sprayed me with nice-smell-,
ing stuff. My word, it wuz a bit of all
right. At last the little bloke tried to get
up, but couldn’t. He tried to get up again,
en ’e wuz a bit more successful, on’y he col-
lapsed over the side of the chair on to the
floor. The barber went to get ’old of him
ter ’elp ’im up, en ’e said, ‘Leave go, you
damned impertinent fellow, what!’ En then
’e began to holler, ‘Brown ! Jones ! Brown !
Jones!’ at such a rate that those two blokes
come running in as fast as they could, wif
the ’all porter at their ’eels. ‘Assist me to
my room, Brown,’ says the little bloke. ‘Wot
are we ter do wif that man, yer ’lghness?’
asks the ’all porter. ‘Chuck ’im out,’ says
the little bloke.
“That’s ’ow I knows the vally of a lord’s
life, the vally of bein’ ’onest to ’im. en the
vally of his friendship,” concluded Stinker.
ROBERT BROTHERS.
A Wet Day at Invercargill.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE got here in two jumps from
Dunedin, the solidest looking, and
probably the most solid city in
Maoriland. We had dribbled down the map
from its sunny head at Auckland to the old
Presbyterian settlement of red roofs and
brass doorsteps, which brews the best beer
in the Dominion, and is intimate with
whisky. Another step south and we wei-e
in the “dry” district. At Gore you may-
change your mind and go north again to the
majestic snow-clad mountains of the Maori
Westland. The choice of first stop lies be-
tween Lumsden, where liquor is naked and
unashamed, and Invercargill where it is
hidden in a keg and consumed secretly.
Gore itself is “dry” and for its sins sus-
tained lately an inexplicable flood which put
six feet of water in its best parlor and
washed the family cow out of the paddock
behind the house. As to that flood, they tell
a characteristic story. In a Prohibition area
everything is supposed to go right. Where
there is no whisky there can be no want; so
when Gore had cleaned out the wreck of the
antimacassar from the parlor sofa, and
rinsed out two inches of slime from the fry-
ing pan, and burned the late lamented cow,
and when the farmers had reported that their
stock of cocksfoot and clover seed had been
washed 40 miles down the river, Maoriland
was sufficiently sympathetic to rain down
offers of assistance. But Gore remembered
its “no whisky, no want” theories and re-
plied that it wasn’t in need of anything—re-
plied in haste and repented at leisure. It
recalled that there are no circumstances in
which the State should not be milked.
Wherefore at latest Gore was asking for a
grant from the Government to put its sodden
affairs once more in order.
From Gore if you jump south you clasp
the cold feet of Maoriland at Invercargill.
Six miles out you pass the last hotel. Be-
tween that shrine of sin and Dunedin lies the
longest stretch of “dry” country in the
Dominion. After a long course of Canon
Boyce the Australian is liable to have the
idea that Maoriland is mostly “dry.” It is
quite a mistake. Sticking to the ordinary
tourist routes, which presumably take in the
parts best worth seeing, you can travel from
the sunnv head to, at any rate, the knee of
the country and find hotels wherever you
would expect to find them in a land that had
never heard of Prohibition. The fact that
there are “dry” spots here and there seems,
however, to have this effect: local travellers
who elsewhere would have no flask in then-
baggage, carry one with them. Hence a
marked smell of whisky at the dining table
of unlicensed houses even in “wet” districts.
It may be coincidence or it may be cause
and effect; certainly it is a fact, that almost
without exception the No-Liquor districts
are flat and drear of outlook. You push our
of the hill country that comes down to the
sea at Dunedin, and you are in the plains of
Southland —fine grazing and agricultural
territory most of it, dotted with fat sheep
and freezing works, where an oat crop of less
than 60 bushels makes the farmer have
lanH g h! S of bankruptcy. The best of the
a£|c ' reached fabulous prices. You hear
of farms sold at £6O an acre. But they are
paid tor almost always with lOU’s. The
wISxfSS Plan worked for all it is worth.
vitn xiuu or so in your pocket you can buy
a sheep farm and the stock thrown at
jou. We could not work it that way in Aus-
tralia ; but here in Southland droughts are
unknown and the creditor is sure of a clip of
wool and the increase of lambs. So the
puce climbs higher and higher, not regulated
by what a man has and is willing to give,
but only by what he has vague hopes of
being able to save. A hundred or two is
neither here nor there to the man who has
nothing, lie cannot lose anything anyway.
fcomehow 1 had a vague idea that Inver-
cargill hung on a few rocky crags that stood
up against the furious blasts of the Antarctic.
JNo idea could be more wrong. There is not
a rocky crag on the horizon. The South-
land plains just die of exposure and drop
into the sea. Invercargill itself is partly
dry land, and partly tussock swamp, and
part y something intermediate. The early
inhabitants were evidently uncertain whether
to have streets or canals, so to be on the safe
aide they called them all after the rivers ot
Scotland—the Dee and the Tay, the Clyde
and the Spey, and so on through the chapter.
A stream of mud and water flows through
ttm town. Its sides have to be propped up
Jest someday they should fall in and engulf
the surroundings. The streets are wide and
treeless and dreary. Rain falls most of the
trme and the wind blows incessantly. If
there were anv place high enough you could
look out over the saddest town in Australasia.
V\ e had asked in advance from the persist-
ent traveller for the address of the most com-
tortabie hotel accommodation. When we got
it it fell like a winter funeral. The house
had once owned the warming glory of a
license, but that was gone. Passing in out
ot the dismal street you reach a “temperance
bar thivuah a narrow freezing chamber in
which four pot plants shivered inside the
rici.yecl door mat. There is no life outside
the pot plants and very little in them. You
jangle a bell and are led through other
freezing chambers to your bedroom. Every-
where there are signs of comforts that have
been struck by an iceberg and frozen to death.
Only in the dining hall is anything of the
old order maintained. You have your food
and wonder how it could be so good in such
circumstances.
There is apparently no reason why the un-
licensed house should not be as good as the
licensed house, but the general testimony of
travellers is that what we met at Invercar-
gill they meet in almost every Prohibition
town, if not in every one. The truth seems
to be that the man who knows best
how to run an hotel takes care that
the hotel he does run gives him the
extra profits of a bar trade. The others
who drift into the management of unlicensed
houses are full of good intentions, probably.
But the hell of which good intentions are the
paving stones is-not always full of fire £nd
brimstone. Sometimes it is occupied by de-
jected furniture, cold draughts and travellers
who are mostly looking to see when the next
train leaves.
When Invercargill begins to suffer from
what are known as the dry horrors it takes,
either tram or motor, or slouches along per
foot to the six-mile-out pub. Sometimes it
goes personally, other times it appoints an
attorney. The duty of the attorney is to
bring back the case or the keg. Keg parties
are commoner in Invercargill than sunstrokes
in Singapore. When the syndicate has
drained the vessel it usually leaves it to the
mercy of the municipal dustman. Almost
every Sunday morning you may find an empty
keg or two on the post-office steps. There
is a proposal to change the name of the town
to Inverkegville. It will probably not be
adopted for some years ; for the present the
folk of the dominant majority take their Pro-
hibition far too seriously.
And yet Invercargill is prosperous. It
lives by frozen meat, talks frozen meat, thinks
frozen meat, and most of the year almost is
frozen meat. To its meats it is adding cheese
—fine cheese and superfine meat as meat
ought to be, which is grazing on turnips to-
day and is frozen mutton in the morning.
Herein Nature has been more bountiful to
Maoriland than to Australia, whose stock
lose their bloom in the long railway racketing
and the often longer wait in the bare pens
which gape into the shambles.
But man does not live by cross-bred alone;
and because Invercargill adds little to its
cross-bred it is cold and uninviting. It has
raised its own standards; its prosperity it
reckons not by its happy days, but by the
pence it adds to its pence, the pounds to its
pounds. Not wholly out of the bigness of
its heart and love for its fellow man has
Invercargill voted itself dry ; many of the bal-
lots have been cast with a view to saving
itself from the awful possibility of some day
having to shout for someone. It might take
a lake of whisky to make Invercargill gay,
and Prohibition is perhaps not altogether re-
sponsible for the chill that strikes to the
visitor’s marrow. Still it might at least be
frank about it, and instead of raising the
standard, “Prohibition Saves the People,”
chalk up what to a large part of Southland
appears to be the greater truth, “Prohibition
Saves the Saxpence.”
S. H. P.
A Change.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Her feet beneath her petticoat
Like little mice peeped in and out”—
The verses used to run;
But nowadays the text is wrong
As given in the old-time song,
Clarinda wears not one.
The petticoat has vanished quite;
The little feet from human sight
Pretend not to be hid ;
What women wear, ’tis not for me
To mention, it would haply be
A bloomer if I did.
Not feet alone, but to the knee
The dainty legs most fair to see
(The makers shape them right)
In quite a bold and shameless wav
For all beholders make display—
A very charming sight!
N.S.W.
HAMER.


Westing'house
Oil Engine
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
From 7 to 40 H.P.
No Carburetter or Vaporiser. No Ignition Apparatus.
Makes the following claims upon
your attention—
-1 It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and
other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the cylinder,
thus dispensing with unreliable and inefficient
vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in con-
struction, there being no
electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that
electric generators and
centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is re-
quired, the supply of
fuel and lubricant
being all the atten-
tion necessary.
0
0.
V
"
, FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE. STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike. Wellington.
The Record of the
Stirling Boiler
SHOWS—
HIGHEST evaporation per sq. ft. of heating surface.
HIGHEST efficiency.
LOWEST coal costs. LOWEST maintenance costs.
40 Municipal undertakings use STIRLING BOILERS. Average
tube renewals »295 tubes per boiler per annum. Average
efficiency of 17 boiler tests in electricity stations was 79 %.
REPEAT ORDERS RECEIVED FROM 220 SATISFIED USERS.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co.
LIMITED,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GOLDFIELDS DIAMOND DRILLING CO. Pty.Ltd.
331 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works—Sturt St., S. Melbourne.
Uim a
MtRNS KtROSINI
RUM ELY TRACTOR.
Works continuously on CHEAPEST Kerosene
BORING CONTRACTORS
and MANUFACTURERS.
Armstrong Traction and All-Steel Boring
Machines, Tools and Casing in stock.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines, Wind-
mills, Pumps, Silos, Hay Presses,
Wagons, etc., etc.
Metz-“22 ” £l9O
The Simple Car for the Country.
These Serviceable Cars are at Work all over N.S.W.
If you require a Simple, Economical, Reliable and Moderately-priced Car it will
pay you to investigate the METZ. Friction Drive (eliminating complicated
gear wheels), 22 H.l\, 4 cyl. Bosch Ignition, lOJin. clearance, 45m. p. hour,
33m. p. gallon.
Brown 8 Hdlicar Ltd.,
375 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Brii
Waverley,
From £350 to £37 5
Nett.
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE-
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won’t
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surelv with
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
THE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price 6d.
m
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis" Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive y-m. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
Beecham’s
Pills
have done so much* all over the world* to make dyspeptic people healthy that
their popularity and success are a matter of course. The ingredients of which
the "World's Household Remedy is composed are the very substances provided
by Nature herself for the cure of indigestion and similar ailments. It is
evident* therefore that Beecham's Pills
Will Do You
more good than other preparations not composed of the same healing proper-
ties. So* whenever you find your stomach or liver the least bit out of order
just take a dose of Beecbam's Pills and put yourself right. This is an easy*
safe* simple, and sensible way of maintaining your health. Beecham's Pills
will always do you
A World of Good.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price ///$ (56 pills) & 219 (168 pills).
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager.
Indulge the Children
to-day , and every day, with
Bird’s Custard. It is so pure
and digestible that it never
disagrees, and so nutritious
that the children thrive on it.
S.W.
Birds
the Perfect Custard !
Sold in Pkts., Boxes and new large Tins.
Try also BIRD S Crystal JELLY — It dissolves instantly.
POST FREE.—A Valuable Recipe Book sent, on receipt of address bv
W. C. Douglass, 53, Liverpool Street, Sydney. ’ i
mm
SAWMXLLERS,
Builders & Joiners.
Take my advice and buy your
Woodworking Machines at
KIRCHNER & CO.
32 Market Street, Sydney.
They hold the largest stock in Australasia. They give you
value for your money. They are the manufacturers, and can
save you the heavy, middleman’s commission. Their
machines are up to date and reliable. They stock all spare
parts and reserve tools. It will be a pleasure to you and
your men to work their machines.
Go and see them to-day, or ’phone City 7,091.
OR TERMS. CATALOGUES FREE.
ESTABLISHED 1874.
FOR
COUGHS .
(pridg
Ujunriloii
es
te
FOR
COLDS .
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
SOLD BY RETAIL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
STOCKED BY ALL WHOLESALE
DRUG HOUSES in AUSTRALIA.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.
HULL, ENGLAND.
Pen
£2
£2
The
Busy
Writers Best Friend
In four types—Regu’ar, Safety, Self-Filing and
Pump-Filling.
Sold by Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. lIARDTMUTH, Ltd., LONDON, Eng.
(Australia : 350, George St,. Sydney.)
__Write for booklet.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK. LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
FRICTION HOISTS.
SPECIALLY SUITED for BUILDERS’ USE.
SIZE IN STOCK: scwt. lift at 200 ft. per hninute.
scwt. lift at 300 ft. per minute.
lOcwt. lift at 175 ft. per minute.
Fitted with Motors for Use on any Supply Voltage or System. MODERATE PRICES.
OF AUSTRALIA Ltd*
SYDNEY: Wynyard Lane.
MELBOURNE* 61 William Street.
BRISBANE: Cornet 4 Saul &. Roma Streets.
3520 City.
5117 City.
3676 Central.
FRICTION
CLUTCHES THAT
CLUTCH
THE “WATERLOO”
GUARANTEED »Y
PATENTEES and MAKERS
Sydney Machine Co.
BOTANY ROAD, WATERLOO,
New South Wales.
WOLFE’S
m
m
m
m
Every
Engineer
Knows
That to run a Steam Plant Economically
you must have Dry Steam. The only
efficient method to adopt to ensure your
steam being free from water is to lead
the water with the steam to a proper
collector, and discharge it through a
Steam Trap. But you must have a Trap
that is Reliable and does not Leak.
THE “SENTINEL”
High Pressure STEAM TRAP
Is Tested to 2501 b. Pressure, and is guaranteed
to remain tight even after much use.
LET US SEND YOU PARTICULARS.
•JCeupAs Wd ZS tm Q±l HIVIONIS V 3DOIHOHM T
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Fluming,
Patent “Nelyambo” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work .
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
m
MODERN TOOLS FOR MACHINE-SHOP EQUIPMENT
Thule CranK Shapers
Study the design and construction of these Shapers.
They are nothing* if not modern as regards simplicity and con-
venience of operation—nothing' complicated with which 'to
confuse the operator, yet possessing every modern feature for
the rapid production of accurate worK.
That is why critical users everywhere recommend a Thule .
It will pay you to call and inspect or write for descriptive catalogue.
PARKE (Si LACY CO. LIMITED
Engineers (Q. Machinery Merchants, 60 Clarence Sydney.
If
ii
i
m
. ♦
The Fastest of all Rock
Drills and Simplest in
Construction.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS-
r"
WIMMIgWr
The LOWEST Air Con-
sumption per ft. Drilled.
STOCKS HELD AT SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, PERTH.
! I -
f
LID
Equitable Buildings, Sydney
525 Collins St., Melbourne
W.A. Agents: CHAS. ATKINS (Si CO. LTD., Perth and Kalg'oorlie.
