

MELLOWED BY AGE.
Machinery Merchants,
107 scent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always avadable.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
£ r?
H H
(*)
H
‘B
&
0
O
<n
! Q
3 (/)
- J
•-I n
«! j
a «
0 S 3
EASY TERMS AND
LOWEST INTEREST.
ĝd
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And at Telephone. No. 225 Central.
186 Eastlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
iiHtlißiiiiiiß
TiiiiißiiiiiiEJiiitti
Qa
COMMfROAI CHAMBERS
rsirs'
ybi
EOBART,
fiadleys Orient jjotel.
Richardson’s
Wine 8 Spirit Stores,
68 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
158 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
riS.'.'
iu*.
Bottle, Case or Gallon at Wholesale Price.
f
HulTcm^
PIINCO^IC-’ 1
Hamd« Bacoi\
CHUBB'S
CO
aw
o
5 O
CL I
to
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
L
HANSEN’S
g
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
fdg
re specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY-MELBOURNE-NEWCASTLB
f
DRINK
rn
!»Jr * ! 11'!
k '** j -^—i ..?&> j i
‘va
T~«fb \*r.
Jjl
White
JL
Roofs
You wear—or you like to wear-distinctive clothes-clothes that have character. Why
not have a distinctive Home—one that will display your ideas, one that will give express
sion to your tastes ? White Malthoid Roofing gives you the opportunity. It lends
itself to any scheme, and, moreover, it is absolutely the best roofing you can get,
no matter what you are prepared to pay. We gladly send samples and booklets.
Representative. THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO., Challis House, Sydney.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE- CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T °
gf
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY
TD
L
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
“QUEEN OF STATES”
BACON and HAMS.
QUEENSLAND CO-OP. BACON CO.. LTD., BRISBANE.
gf
The Helidon Spa Water Co„ in its
placed “the rational water cure
extensive distribution,
** within reach of all*
has
Agents,
Redfern
The Bulletin
Yol. 35.—N0. 1788.1
[Thursday, May 21, 1914,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper j


MEAT INSPECTION.
.THE AUSTRALIAN HANDBOOK OF MEAT INSPECTION,
by JOHN JOHNSTON, M.D., C.M., D.P.H., etc.,
Member of Victorian Board
KS gSS’iFStf Meat <o —»“>‘W
Hisp^cml^Oißcere 6 Med!™!’ St , ui ¥ nts ’ Wedical Officers of Health, Sanitary and Pood
for the Diploma of Public Health Stl ai ]? rV„ my , Scrvicß Corps, Veterinary Surgeons, and candidates
GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROPTY, <VIT T> SYDNEY.
ROUND TABLE—No 14.
SPECIAL ARTICLES, Irish Crisis, South
African Strike, Education and. Working
Class, The New Autocracy in China, Usual
articles from Dominions.
MacMillan & Co., 109 Russell Street, Mel-
bourne, or any Bookseller.
Price 10s. per annum, 2s. 6d. per copy.
Philippine panama hats. p oS i-
tively the best Panamas made, woven
by hand under water by the native women in
their homes. Made in Lucban and surround-
ing Barrios only, as fibre from which these
hats are made grows at no other place in
Islands. These hats can be crushed .and not
lose shape, cap be blocked in any shape or
style as often as wanted by your local hatter,
light as a feather, ivaterproof, can be cleaned
as often as needed, only summer hat that will
last a lifetime.*’ For both Ladies and Gentle-
men, all sizes: Ladies’ hats, £2, £3/2/6 and
£4. ’:■ ' - '• ■ * ' '<•
Gentlemen’s hats, £l, £2 and £3/2/6, post
paid. Satisfaction or money back. The
highest-priced hats are double weave. These
hats exhibited at Philippine Exposition, and
specially woven, were sold, some of them, as
high as 500 dollars each.
Pattingell & Co., Lucena, Tayabas, P.I.
The Mouth is the Gateway
for the Entrance of Disease
Professor Miller has proved conclusively that
no fewer than 38 different infections may be
traced with more or less directness to the
human mouth, as a focal or starting point.
The mouth being the gateway for the entrance
of disease, therefore it is here that the fight
must begin to keep the enemy out.
HUDSON S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Ger-
micide and Antiseptic knovvn, being destructive
to all forms of bacterial life. They keep the
mouth in a sweet, healthy condition.
A. The Larynx or
organ of voice.
B. The Trachea or
windpipe.
dg
ĝ
df
gd
C. The Bronchial
tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
I). A Lobe of one
of the lungs.
F-TmSON’S EUMEWTHOT, .TTT.TTTBES
Contain no Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
SUITED FOR OLD AND YOUNG.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION,
Sold everywhere. Chemists, Grocers, Store-
keepers, in tins, price 1/6.
The Mjßdicai, Press and Circular says.—
“These Jujubes should be of special service to
Lecturers, Public Singers and Speakers, and,
indeed, to all who are called upon to use their
voices frequently for prolonged periods.’’ [4
The Red Page
The Englander
VV. L. George, with three past novels to
his name, A Bed of Roses, The City of Light,
and Israel Kalish, steps prominently out
into the literary sunlight with The Making
of an Englishman (Constable, per Dymock’s
Library). In a recent N.Y. Bookman,
W. L, George asks who is the man that is
looming up most prominently in English lit-
erature. He places Bennett, Galsworthy,
Conrad, Hardy, James and Wells in the
fixed top places—an estimate easy to make,
and already anticipated by this page, though
he misses George Moore. None of these
men is under 40. But who are the young
men who rear their heads above the common
rank? George takes for his age limit the
writers who have not passed, or have but
lately passed, 30. He lists J. D. Beresford,
Gilbert Cannan, E. M. Forster, D. H. Law-
rence, Compton Mackenzie, Oliver Onions,
Frank Swinnerton. These, he says; have af-
firmed themselves earlier thaii did their
seniors and yet quite definitely. He ex-
cludes specialised men like Algernon Black-
wood and James Stephens. These seven, he
asserts, will within a decade be the literary
men that matter. Mention, but without en-
thusiasm. is made of Perceval Gibbon, do
Selincourt, C. E. Montague, “Lucas Malet,”
May Sinclair, Mrs. Sedgwick, Edith Whar-
ton, Mrs. Belloc-Lowndes and Mrs. Dudenay.
He misses William Caine, Elizabeth Itobins,
W. B. Maxwell, Alfred Ollivant, A. S. M.
Hutchinson. A. Neil Lyons, Leonard Mer-
rick, though some of these are over the age-
limit. And now it is evident that W. L.
George has his place in the small list of
rising stars.
C •*
He tells the story of the making of an
Englishman out of a typical southern French-
man. As a youth his hero—himself——was an
Anglophobe. He must needs become an Eng-
lishman. He arrives in London in Maffick-
ing Week, and finds himself at once in his
hysterical element. Then he proceeds to be-
come acclimatised, unaware, as his bio-
grapher is unaware, that he is a pitiable
object, a racial renegade. Nevertheless, de-
spite his slavish efforts to become acclima-
tised; —to us Australians a quaint ambition
—Bull refuses to absorb him, and rudely
continues to address him as “Froggy.” His
clothes are all wrong, his attitude is all
wrong; but the contrast between his emo-
tional -self and the pious frauds of the Eng-
lander affords George opportunity for acerb
criticism. In his boarding-house he kisses
cockney Maud —a delightful specimen of
English commonness. Gradually he discovers
the English attitude about women: there
are two kinds, the accessible undesirable
and the inaccessible desirable. And the
Englishwoman is always unconsciously in-
suring against temptation: she won't wear
proper stays. Finally he makes the great
discovery that England is the place where
things are not done.
When he is admitted into society he
blunders ludicrously. But this- Frenchman
has all the fanaticism of the convert. He
manages even to alter his voice. He acquires a
voice, “deep, low, having about it a muffled
quality, a quality of averageness that is
national.” He meets Edith, the typical, re-
pressed,. cold, pretty English society girl,
and loves her. Here is the creed of the
young English girl:—
“I believe I must tell the truth, obey my
parents and love them. I must conform to
the rules of my caste, hold such ideas as it
allows its women ; I must respect, in order,
my father, my eldest brother, my mother,
my sisters; I must be kind to my grand-
mother, to my other relatives, to friends and
servants: that is, be kind to those whom I
do nob respect. I believe in the Almighty
as stated by the creed I have been taught to
profess. I believe in courtesy, in good
clothes, which, must be neither much ahead
nor much behind the fashions, and such as
befit my age. I believe in baths, clean linen.
I believe that false hair,' rouge, face powder
are sinful. . I believe that I must like, in
order, music, books and pictures, but my
liking for them, must not be hysterical; also
I must see to it that all. my reading be not
light. I believe in love and that in the name
of love, provided my conscience tells me it
is holy, I may. transgress certain of my
rules; and I believe that love must be pure,
and noble, that it must be steadfast and
true; I believe that it comes but once in
life and that it must be sacrificed if it
threatens the eventual happiness of the loved
one. I believe that I must not tell the loved
one that I love him, but that I must wait
his. pleasure. All this I must not tell. I
believe that I must wait for success, for
love, for death, and that I must not complain
m the waiting. I believe I must listen, not
speak; obey, not command; respond, not
exact. I am a pure young English girl; my
life is not my own. I believe that my busi-
ness is to find its master.”
Apt, acute, but, surely, beginning not quite
to be true. One wonders what the creed
of the Australian young girl is? This page
would be delighted to print “The Creed of
the Australian Girl,” for comparison. Would
some young thing please send her creed in,
'by June 6? The best creed will be
paid for.
r hero is turned politely down by
Ediths heavy father, and Edith, of course,
has to obey .her father. The lover sees red,
takes up his old affair with Maud, now,
alter a trial on. the stage, in a much less
exacting profession. The. Frenchman eats
the husks, and likes the change of diet. He
flies from England; but finds that he had be-
come too English to be happy in France
00, after a simmering interval, unwillingly
back to London. His business progresses ■
he becomes rich, meets Edith again and is
allowed to marry her. He ends an Eng-
lishman. .. .and the Englishman is Falstaff'
.“The outer Falstaff is English, the lawless
root of him yet more English, for you hate
the law, and obey it only because you make it
in such wise as not to chafe you. And he is
your soul; he is the Englishman who con-
quered every shore and, a Bible in h|s hand,
planted your flag among the savages; he is
the unsteady boy who ran away to sea, the
privateersman who fought the French and.
the Dutch; he is the cheerful, greedy, dull
and obstinate Englishman, who is so wonder-
fully stupid and so wonderfully full of com-
mon-sense. Falstaff was never curbed by ad-
versity: no more was the English race; it
was, like him, too vain and too Optimistic,
too materially bound by its immediate de-
sires. Falstaff, you are the gigantic ancestor
of the priests, merchants and soldiers who
have conquered and held fields where never
floated the lilies of the French or the castles
of the Portuguese. Too dull to be beaten
and too big to be moved, you were the Eng-
lishman.”
W. L. George is diplomatic. The book
will flatter England, despite its keen stabs
at England’s flabby heart; for the English-
man will complacently reflect that the view-
point is that of a foreigner; and, really,
foreigners don’t matter.) But for us others,
us Australians, The Malting of an English-
man appears as a brilliant summing-up of
our ancestors at the old home in the northern
Antipodes— not the summing-up that an Aus-
tralian would make, but still an impartial
outside view. And the characterisation is
throughout brilliant, the story, considered
merely as a story, delightful.
i *
In The 'Vital Epark ( Winn, North Syd-
ney ) Dr. It. It. S. MacKinnon advances a
theory that seems incapable of proof ex-
cept by means of the skilled equipment of a
scientist. Be is coinmendably modest in his
assertions: ‘‘l merely desire to enunciate
certain thoughts engendered in a mind of
average ability, but perhaps of a more imag-
inative type than that of the hard-headed
chemist who, before accepting any theory,
requires the corroboration of test-tube
and microscope.” But the author may be
reminded that there is another class of
scientific men, the chemist who is both hard-
headed and imaginatively-minded. It is by
these men that thig theory will be proved or
disproved. His theory, stripped of many ex-
traneous suggestions, is that electricity and
vitality are one and the same thing. Doubt-
less they are. His argument is based mainly
on his assertion that th.e function of sweating
is to allow the positive and negative charges
of electricity to “rush into the body.” Without
the moist condition of the skin induced by
sweating,, “the negative and positive forces of
the chlorine and sodium” (of which sweat is
largely composed) cannot be “liberated as
negative and positive energy.” We sweat
only at such times as we have lqst energy.
The main function of sweating he asserts,
is for ionization and not for keeping the
body, by evaporation, at an equable tempera-
ture. One of his reasons is naive. “I cannot
think that Nature could possibly adopt such
an unpleasant vent for an excretion as a
surface extending from the crown of the
head to the soles of the feet, and as regards
the cooling by evaporation, such could have
been done by sweating pure water (less un-
pleasant than sweat) and excreting the other
objectionable ingredients by a less objection-
able vent.” Nature is not concerned with our
sensations of pleasure or unpleasantness, or
our suggestions for her improvement in
method. The development of this theory is
readably done, in language that, however,
lacks scientific precision. The ideas thus
loosely thrown out by an original mind are
interesting, and, in more skilled hands, might
be valuable.
A Woman in the Antipodes is a title appro-
priate enough in England, but utterly mis-
leading for Australian readers. A Woman
from the Antipodes would better express
Mary Hall’s meaning—-to us. England is
our Antipodes. This volume (Methuen) is
mere travel chat by a tourist lacking a style.
It is well illustrated, and in heiydescriptions
of Maoriland scenic resorts she contrives, by
a multiplicity of petty and discursive detail,
to convey some picture of the scenery. It
is evident, both from her title and her mat-
ter, that there are still people in England
who regard it as in the highest degree ad-
venturous for anybody from the Antipodes to
visit us.
The second number of that patriotic and
interesting quarterly, The Inlander, edited
by John Flynn for the Home Mission Bodrd
of the Scotchbyterian Church of Australia
(4s. per annum —and worth it), makes it
clear to us that we are merely rim-dwellers,
mere flies on the wheel: the hub we know
little about. The Gentralian is a locked-up
Australian. Th# mail used to reach Alice
Springs from Adelaide after three days of
train travel, six days of coach travel (a
strong buggy, with five changes of horses
and camping every night), then by four
days of pack camel plodding. Recently,
however, the Minister for External Affairs,
‘probably through ignorance, has made an
alteration in the mail arrangements for the
worse—to the Centralians. There aren’t
many of these, but even in Centralia a
married woman is liable to have a baby, or
fall sick, and need medical attention or
medicines; and this habit of treating Cen-
tralia as an external affair calls for public
protest. This The Inlander is pathetically
doing with stories of babies that died owing
to lack of communications or the lack of
nurses at these far inland localities. The
Scotchbyterian Mission maintains what
nurses it can, but it wants to maintain more.
And its. voice is The Inlander, and it is an
interesting, patriotic, pleasantly aggressive
and Good-Australian voice.
Pillars of Society
It is characteristic of the importance that
the game of politics assumes in England,
first, that out of 31 English public men in
A, C. Gardiner’s Pillars of Society (Nisbet,
per Dymock’s Library), no less than 18 are
mere politicians, and, second, that these
brilliant character sketches of well-known
personalities are vitiated by A. C. Gardiner’s
own party bias. In England politics is still
a spectacular game played by privileged
families in a jealously guarded enclosure, to
which the public, even the multitudes who
do not possess votes, are admitted, and, pro-
vided that they do not interrupt the game,
are allowed to look on from a distance.
Deprive many of Gardiner’s pillars of
society of the precarious support of politics
and they would be nonentities. But this
brilliant journalist ranges wider; he etches
mordantly the portraits of the King—though
here he warily grovels—Kitchener, Kropot-
kin, Bernhardt, Carnegie, Woodrow Wilson,
Mrs. Humphry Ward, the Sidney Webbs,
Forbes-Robertson, Roosevelt, Belloc, Fisher,
Bryce, Milner and Wells. Wickedly he
prints the pen picture drawn of Winston
Churchill by the Boers in their warrant for
his arrest after his escape from Pretoria.
It is hardly flattering to this supreme adver-
tiser.
Englishman, 25 years old, about sft. Sin.
high, indifferent build, walks with a bend
forward) pale appearance, red-brownish hair,
small moustache hardly perceptible, talks
through the nose and cannot pronounce the
letter “s” properly.
Of Bonar Law he remarks: “He is as
unimaginative as the ledger in his count-
ing-house. His speech is dry and colorless,
his voice thin and unmusical. He has the
intonation and the oratorical method of a
Scotch preacher. .. .He is as innocent of
humor as a dirge, and has never made an
epigram. But he can sting.” Carnegie is
neatly put into his proper pigeon-hole.
He has failed to get rid of his fortune by
building his 1500 libraries and his 0000
church organs and his palaces of peace and
his institutes, and by founding his Scotch
University schemes and his Hero Funds in
all countries. Why should he not try an-
other method? Why should he not spend the
rest of his days and his resources in warring
against the 12-hour day and the seven-day
week of the Steel Trust? That Trust is
the most colossal monument that' the Mam-
mon of modern industry has conceived. Its
capital of 1,400,000,000 dollars is half water.
Upon that water vast dividends are paid
out of the excessive hours and under-pay-
ment of thousands of unhappy serfs. That
cannot be a pleasant thought for Mr. Car-
negie as he wakes to the sounds of the bag-
pipes at Skibo Castle. For it was he who
broke the union that gave the serfs at least
a fighting chance.
Woodrow Wilson, he observes, “is the
first great coin struck in the mint of Ameri-
can politics for half a century.” And cer-
tainly M,rs. Humphry Ward is “really an
Extensioh lecturer in disguise.” Without
humor, without passion, without the note
of individual charm, she is the most success-
ful woman novelist since George Eliot, with
the possible exception of Marie Corelli. The
reason is that it is as hard to live down' a
good name as it is to live down a bad one.
She happened to be the central figure of the
great intellectual conflict of the eighties.
And she has kept on writing.
Kipling the artist, died a dozen years ago,
about the time of the Boer war ; but Mr. Kip-
ling, the writer, still carries on the business,
and, in virtue of the work of his famous
partner (who is dead), probably receives
a-higher price per word for anything he
Writes than anyone else living. He will
go on receiving it, and the world will go on
buying him, and remarking with unfailing
freshness that his latest thing is sadly below
his old form. Give an author a good name
and he may live ou it to a green old age.
Roosevelt is “the lion comique on the
world’s stage.” He has made more noise in
the world than any man of his time. “He
is a megaphone whose very whisper sounds
like hoarse thunder, and when he shouts,
which not infrequently happens, he is. heard
all round the seven seas. . . .He is the Play-
boy of the Western World, rough, boisterous,
rollicking, sending his barbaric yawp over
the roof of the world.”
Perhaps it is because they are so largely
men of action that the most conspicuous
literary men of to-day are so gay. Ches-
terton, Shaw and Wells are engaged less in
writing books than in fighting battles. They
are "concerned not with literature but with
life. They do not use words like artists, but
like warriors, loving them not for their per-
fume, but because they hit hard. Each has
an enemy, and it is the same* enemy. It is
Things as Tliey Are. Chesterton takes the
world in his vast embrace and tries to heave
it back into the Middle Ages. Shaw and
W r ells —flinging jolly gibes at each other by
the way—rush at our poor orb and seek to
kick it into centuries unborn. They are all
perspiring and they are all happy.
And of Wells Gardiner tells this story:—
“Why,” said a former comrade of his to
me, “since he has given up invention he has
lived on photography. I can tell you where
such-and-such conversations took place. They
are meticulously accurate. So are the
descriptions of persons and things. Why,
he has this room we are sitting in pictured
to the last detail —even to the pattern of the
paper on the wall —no, it is the pattern of
the last paper.”
All of which Wells would deny. But his
later work raises the suspicion.
This family albuni of inspired snapshots
guarantees the reader’s chuckle.
The committee of experts set up Dy this
office in 11)08 to examine the pages of Loin-
don Punch, with a view to discovering any
signs of humor therein, has brought in its
report. The members triumphantly an-
nounce that success came to their
unwearied efforts after a decade of
disappointment by their happy discovery
in a recent isgue ' of that curious
paper of something that looks somewhat like
a sort or kind of joke, or -jokelet. In ap-
pendix A the joke is tabulated. The pic-
ture shows a woman busy at the wash tub,
to whom enters “A Temperance Worker
(paying a surprise visit to the home of his
pet convert).” He asks: “Does Mr. Mc-
Murdoch live here?” And Mrs. McMur-
doch over her shoulder replies: “Aye; carry
him in !” The committee is to be congratu-
lated upon the brilliant success of its labors.
Shilling reprints of worth-while novels:
fyueed, by Henry Sydnor Harrison (Con-
stable) ; Lord Jim, Joseph Conrad’s master-
piece (Blackwood) ; and The Alias, Alexan-
der Crawford’s sensational yarn (Black-
wood).
Somewhat timorously “Ah Gee” has some-
thing to say about “Jay Kay” and the School
Header:— , • ■
If it is not overbearing presumption on my part, I
would like to inform “Jav Kay” in a perfectly polite
and obsequious fashion- that he exaggerates his case
to the point of being incorrect and unjust. On read-
ing his grumble, I hurriedly seized a “reader” made
in Australia. -Out of 101 extracts, 84 are by
standard authors, ranging from the Bible and Shakes-
peare to Kipling, Gordon and Paterson. These ex-
tracts are narrative, descriptive, humorous: an ex-
cellent variety. The others deal with special topics:
scenes from Australian history, elqjnentary science.
No author is named: presumably the editor wrote
them. And he has done it very fairly. The language
is not full of Latinisms, nor is it unduly childish.
Australian youngsters detest a book “written down”
to their supposed level. The book is illustrated by
an Australian artist. But “Jay Kay” is wrong other-
wise. In most schools it is the practice (compulsory
in N.S.W.) tp use supplementary readers, which are
generally continuous complete stories, e.g., Treasure
Island is a great favorite, The White Company, and
portions of novels by Scott or Dickens. If “Jav Kay”
wishes to dispose of some cash, let him order from
one of the big Sydney bookshops a copy of every
school reader in stock: he would probably get a few
hundred, if he read them all he would cer-
tainly find that he had learnt something—both of
English literature and educational literature. And
he need not think that Readers drive the pupils to
Garvice or Gin. Many schools, have excellent
libraries, which are much appreciated. I found a
youngster of 13 the other clay who was return-
ing the Iliad , He had read it all, as well as the
Odyssey and Paradise Lost, and he wanted Dante. I
suppose “Jay Kay” will say that this is spoiling the
penmens market. Well, let him work up to that
youngster’s level.
A trade union of authors is suggested in
London. At a meeting, presided over by
/angwill, the Literary Committee of the
Lyceum Club, with power to co-opt out-'
side members, was instructed to consider
what steps might be taken for the improve-
ment of authors, either by the formation
of a trade union or the founding of a paper
devoted to their interests.


fg
fdg
F
ASHION 8 ECONOMY...
COMBINE IN
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices
u
<s
is
BELLO
BERTHA
The BELLO. Maid’s Robe, in fine Navy Coating
Serge, beautifully modelled; an attractive Frock for
Maids from 14 to 19 years .. Sizes: 39in., 29/11;
42in., 30/6; 45in.,31/6; 48in„ 32/6; 51in„ 32/11
The BERTHA. —Becoming Frock, in Grey Tweed,
Navy Serges and Amazon Cloth, in Colors: Vieux Rose
and Saxe, to fit girls from 6 to 12 years:—
Sizes
26in.
Tweed ... 12/11
Cloth ... 13/6
Fine Serge... 14/11
Heavy Serge 9/6
27in.
13/6
13/6
14/11
9/11
30in.
13/9
13/11
15/6
10/6
33in.
36in.
13/11 14/6
14/6 14/11
15/6 15/11
10/6 10/11
Anthony
Horderns
For
Everything-
dfg
222
2r/e
307
No. 222. Well-CUt Skirt, in Navy and White Striped Suit-
ing, with inlet front panel, trimmed Smoked Pearl buttons, double-
lapped seam down centre back, with Strap across ... 27/6
Similar designs in Black, Navy and White Striped Suitings ....
18/6, 22/6, 28/6; Out Sizes, 24/6, 27/6, 30/-
No. 307. — Neatly Designed Skirt, in Black Panama
Resilda, inlaid front, finished with rows of Black Silk stitchings
and buttons, Empire waist 15/-
No. 116/48. — Smart Wool Delaine Blouse, Cream
ground with Colored stripe and floral effect, in Sky, Biscuit,
Helio, Navy, small round Collar and inlet Vest of plain, soft
Silk to match 8/6
No. 906. — Stylish Blouse, of Black Crepe de Chene, with large
White Japanese Silk Collar, fastens in front with fancy Black
and White buttons 18/6
Same style, in all Black Pailette Silk, No. 902 16/6
Many other Styles are
illustrated in our
Winter Fashion Book.
Write for a copy, post
free on request. It
faithfully presents all
that is new in the
world of dress.
A
TANGO
VENZ>
MINUET
The xANGO.—Maid’s Coat and Skirt Costume, in
Check Donegal Tweed, smartly tailored, introducing the new feature
in this season’s designing; suitable for Maids from 17 to 19
years, also for small Ladies’ figures. .Sizes: 9, 39/6; 8, 38/6
The VENZI.—Coat and Skirt Costume, in fine Coating
Serge, Navy; Collar facings of Black and White striped Silk,
exquisitely modelled, for small Ladies’ figures, and Maids from
16 to 19 years Sizes. 9, 42/6; 8, 42/6; 7 > 39/11.
The MINUET. —Coat and Skirt Costume, in heavy
Cheviot Serge, Navy; modelled for little folk, especially suited
for school wear; to fit Child from 4 to 14 years
Sizes: 2, 21/6; 3, 22/6; 4, 22/6; 5, 22/11; 6, 22/11
MI NATO. GWYN. S E LVA
The MlNATO.—Maid’s Coat and Skirt Cstume, in
Flake Diagonal Tweed, semi-fitting cut-away Coat, with Collar of
Black Corded Silk. Skirt is four-piece, ornamented with beautiful
large buttons, expressly modelled for small Ladies’ figures and Maids
from 17 to 19 years Sizes: 9, 42/11; 8, 42/6
The GWYN. —Children’s Hand Knitted Woollen
Combination Frock, With Bloomers and Quaker Bonnet at-
tached, Colors: Vieux Rose, Saxe, Cinnamon and Cream, fitting
child from 1 to 7 years Sizes: 00, 17/6; 0, 18/11;
1, 19/11; 2, 21/6; 3, 22/6; 4, 24/6; 5, 25/6.
The SELVA. —Children’s Woollen Coat, of fine quality
Wool, simple and effective stitch. Colors: Red, Grey, Cinnamon and
Cream, fit child from 1 to 8 years .. Sizes: 16in., 6/11;
18in„ 7/11; 20in., 8/11; 22in., 9/6; 24in., 10/6;
36in., 10/11.
Postage must
be added
to the
prices quoted
fd
2^6
I
m
11 'i
Si
[Ti ii "’i i.
smw
.Til 1 .'Hi i
Mil;!;!!'-:
ijte
iM®!'
nil-
G 47
f2/6
No. 227. Stylish Skirt, in Black Resilda, draped on hips
finished Silk Medallions, with double lapped seams back and front,
trimmed Black Silk buttons 27 / 6
Other smart styles in Black Resilda .. 10/6; out sizes, 27/6
Also other Black Materials in Out Sizes: Black Taffeta Voile *..
15/-; Black Sicilian, 16/6, 18/6
No. G47. — Tailor-made Walking Skirt, in Tan color
Cheviot Serge, slightly gathered at back, finished new Strap
effect 12/6
Similar Styles in Cream Panama ... 12/6, 15/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace ILm-poritim*
Brickfield Hill*
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


<?
"1
r
ft
smi
the
Ammunition
Question is
Easily Settled. USE
Trade
Mark
WINCHESTER
Rifle and Pistol Cartridges
That is the answer. They end ammunition troubles. The
Winchester name and trademark on a box of cartridges mean
that they are accurate, reliable and uniform, in a word the best
that can be made. They are a guarantee that the long experi-
ence, great skill and unequalled facilities of the Winchester Re-
peating Arms Company, —the largest manufacturers of guns
and ammunition in the world —were all efficiently employed in
making the cartridges. Winchester cartridges develop the
greatest possibilities of any rifle or revolver in which
they are used. They are sold by all dealers, and are the
best sellers everywhere. Accept only Winchester make
TO GMT THM FULL LIMIT OF SHOOTING SATISFACTION
’■ -J'i'Y ' lOl: 7^
IT S SO
EASY
High-Speed EXCAVATING
There’s nothing easier or quicker
tka» a Scoop for excavating Dams,
Irrigation Channels, Drains and
such work on the land. The horse
is hitched in, and off you go. The
Scoop is ten times faster than the
weary, backbreaking pick-shovel-
and-crowbar method. Cet a Scoop
—get a McPherson Scoop, because
they’re the best value going. Bodv
is pressed from one solid sheet of
toughest Steel. Enters ploughed or
virgin soil easily, because it’s same
width back and front, with edges
well ground. Strong Steel Runners
are fitted to help things along.
Complete with Stout Steel Bail,
Swivel and Detachable Handles, at
the following low prices:—
No. Capacity. Weight. Price
3 3 cubic feet 801 b. 32/0
2 5 cubic feet 951 b. 35/-
1 7 cubic feet 1051 b. 37/0
0 10 cubic feet 1331 b. 80/-
The Barrow that
Lasts Longest!
Get amongst the biggest mines, into
pards, gasworks, etc., and see the barrows
use. STEEL BARROWS every time!
coal-
they
Steel Barrows take the rough knocks of ore and
«oai, and effects of red-hot coke or ashes longer
than others. When the tray does happen to go
it can be renewed. All other parts are indes-
tructible. Notice how Tubular Steel Handles
pass around front, to protect wheel when
dumping.
No. 4, 3 cub. feet capacity, 33/- Heavy
Pattern, No. 44, 3 cub. feet, 45/-
No. I#, capacity 5001 b., 00/-
gfd
IRON AGE
Cultivators
No. i,
Fig. 57
34/-
Don t use a big tool for little work. There’s
nothing so economical as an Iron Age “Culti-
vator” for close and particular work in young
plants, or for fine cultivation. High-Grade
Material throughout. Sturdy, Strong, Efficient
and Low Priced. Ask for Iron Age Cultivator
Book. Post free.
McPhersons)
I >.a
“ Experts in Tools,”
554-66 & 582=88 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE, VIC
Your Cycling
will cost you less
if your choice is right at purchasing time.
You may be offered a bicycle at a lower
p;ice than one built with Genuine B.S.A.
Fittings, but think of the days to crme,
when reliability and easy cycling will
mean a great deal more to you than the
saving of a few shillings at buying time.
Remember, when you buy a B.S.A. you always get
full value for money—you g:t a machine that you
will be proud of, and one that will fetch twice the price
of a " pattern ” machine should you wish to dispose of it.
Write for B.S.A. Handbook.
D. Y. RENNIE (Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS. MELBOURNE,
LOOK FOK
THIS MABK
WHEN YOU
BUY A
BICYCLE.
ouse turn
B.S A.
SPAKE
PAKTS
OBTAINABLE
EVERY-
WHERE
IN
AUSTRALIA.
Ride a Bicycle
Built of Genuine
A Fittings
Cheapest
in the end
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY HORDERN (Si SONS LTD
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
j
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES
.lust wash the part dean, rub in a little
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you'll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
tin now. 1/fi, posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
2] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
ISO
The maddening irri-
tation that accom-
panies Eczema is dis-
pelled at once by ap-
plying soothing, heal-
ing “ISO.” Instanta-
neous relief. Send 3d.
(in stamps) fo>- Liberal
Sample Tube to
BLACK, Chemist. Ccl-
lingwood, Victoria, ]2
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS,
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRADE MARK
SPLENDID 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra long range.
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/0. D.D.15.L. GUN, fitted with
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified steel barrels,
walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN EXCELLENT
KILLER. Holiday Price, £3/10/- D.8.8.L. GUN, choke and modified steel
barrels. Government Tested. THE FARMER’S FRIEND. Special Price.
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 22 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice and
light. A very accurate little weapon. THE YOUTH’S FAVORITE. Holidav
Price, 14/6. . CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent ejector. Takes .22
long, .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best sellers. Holiday
Price, 18/6. Write for Our Catalogue.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Largest Importers of Arms and Ammunition in the Comimenweatth
24-2-4 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
One of the best known and most highly
respected residents of Hunter’s Hill,
Sydney, N.S.W., writes of his
complete recovery which
can be easily verified.
Mr. MICHAEL O DONNELL is one of the oldest identities
of this charming Sydney suburb where he has taken an active
interest in its social and commercial advancement. He writes of
the wonders of Clements Tonic, 25/8/13. Hundreds of Hunter’s
Hill residents know how ill Mr. O’Donnell has been, and how
great a reason he has to be thankful for having had this medicine
recommended to him. & j* Read his remarkable letter.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“ Years ago I became completely debilitated, and for six months I was
unable to follow my occupation. My nerves were in such a state that sleep
was almost impossible. My appetite had left me, I lost weight rapidly,
getting as low as 10 stone. I WAS JUST ABOUT AS BAD BODILY
AND MENTALLY AS IT WAS POSSIBLE TO BE.
“ I had medical advice, but derived no benefit from the medicine
prescribed, and began to lose hope of ever being my old self again.
“ Hearing of the wonders of Clements Tonic in similar cases, I
purchased some, and after taking it for a time I began to notice a beneficial
result. My appetite improved, and the nerves, becoming soothed, allowed
me to have my natural sleep. I BEGAN TO LOOK SO WELL
THAT PEOPLE SEEING ME ASKED WHAT MEDICINE I
WAS TAKING. I kept on with the Tonic till I fully recovered, and
I am now in the best of health, weighing I2st. 41b. I HAVE CLEM-
ENTS TONIC TO THANK FOR MY CURE. I have great
faith in it.
“ Living in Hunter’s Hill all my life, and being well known, this
statement can be vouched for, as nearly everyone knew how bad in heaa'th
I wa*. You may use this as you think fit.”
(SIGNED)
This letter'goes to prove the wonderful strength-givihg value
of this splend d medicine, Clements Tonic, which is undoubt-
edly the herald of health, and relieves Lassitude, Sick
Headache, Loss of Vitality, Loss of Apnetite, Poor Blood, Low
Spirits, and Melancholia quickly. All homes should keep if.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT EVERYWHERE.
Send for it. It lengthens and ewaeiens life.


Famished
Hair Cells
Hair-failure is due to starved roots and cells.
Ail the legion of hair troubles vanish if you
strike at the root. It is the same in every ill
—you must go right to the heart of the trouble.
What the grey, languishing, dropping hairs
call for
fs an adequate food— a real nutriment.
ROWLAND'S MACASSAR OIL gives an
immediate new vitality to the feeble roots and
the “ feeding ’’ cells beneath them. It produces
a soft, silky sheen and texture; a full, luxuriant
growth, radiating a true natural hair-/t ealth
Softly perfumed with Otto of Roses. Supplied
in Gold Tint for fair hair.
ROWLANDS
Macassar Oil!
is sold by Stores, Che??iists, and
ROWLANDS, 67, Hatton Garden ,
London.
Avoid cheap imitations with the same
or similar name.
PREPAID TO YOUR PORT.
g
Ten Days' Trial allowed. Direct I'rom
Factory. Highest-grade British MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears, Flyer
or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
LATEST
MODE'LS
£3.10 to £9
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Write at once, using sufficient postage,
for. Free Art Catalogue and special
Offer cm sample machine. Agents wanted
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY.
Dept A 282 LIVERPOOL,
AGENT for MEAD
VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade,
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND.
CYCLES-
Melbou me.
ALL MODELS
LETTERS COPIED WHILE WRITING
(in ink) by using yotir own Letter-paper
with this Book. You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing you
secure a perfect letter and a
perfect copy. there is no
sign of copying. 400 octavo Bin. x sin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/200 Hook, size lOg x
Bg, post free 4/6; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Bin. x sin., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper which
produces this result, free if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic, Leicester, England.
Zanetic goods obtainable from Sands & McDougall,
Ltd., Collins Street West, Melbourne, and Branches
at Adelaide and Perth.
fdg
fd
CARTRIDGES
—essential
to good sport.
Good cartridges may
not always suffice to
ensure good sport, but
good sport is out of the
question without them.
ELEY Cartridges do all that the best
cartridges can do in this direction, with a
trustworthiness which has won for them
a measure of success greater probably
than any other cartridges in the world
Two ‘Eley Loaded' Cartridges:
Eley ‘Acme’
A bright orangeg inch
deep-sbell Cartridge
loaded with Eley
(43-gr.) Smokeless.
Elcy Eloid
A light maroonCartridg '.
Loaded with Eley(33 gr (
Smokeless. Light recoil;
absolutely waterproof.
The above, and other Eley
specialities, may be ob-
tained from all Gunmakers
an.i ,-I mmunition Dealers,
b ley Bros., Ld„ London
Enjr.
1
TO
ll
f 4 #9—
to
s,
yMA'
Kriischen
7 Salts N
Now sold by Chemists ttiroughout tue '-ommonweatth.
Wholesale Importers:
H. & W. GREAR, 237, olarenes Street. SYDNEY
Bonnington’s
Jubes
For the VOICE *
THROAT (Si LUNGS
Possess many of the unique and valuable curative properties of Bonnington’s Irish Moss.
I hey affor aim mediate relief in case of Sore or Relaxed Throat, Less of Voice. Huskiness,
Spasmodic Cough. Bronchial Trouble etc. Whilst soothing and antisepticin their action,
these Jubes are entirely free from all poisonous or other harmful substances.
Sty's
'X/s,}
IS
Cf
sS'
A PLEASANT AND EFFECTIVE COUCH PASTILLE
SUITABLE FOR BOTH ADULTS AND CHILDREN
BONNINGTON’S JUBES are highly recom-
mended for. use by I'ublic Speakers and
Singers. The Travelling Public will also find
them tlie best and most convenient Throat
Pastille. SOLD EVERYWHERE
Price, 1/3 per tin
If not obtainable locally, send price in
stamps to
Bonnington & Co., I,td.
171) lIA URIS STREET - - SYDNEY
CURED
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard —secretly--at homo. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of cither sex. It totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Send 2d. stamp for FREE
SAMPLE and full particulars, or, if you desire to commence treatment
without delay, send 10/G for supply.
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., Dept B. 2011, Pitt Street, Sydney.
Hi
w
A WOMAN’S BIRTHRIGHT !
A CORRECTLY
DEVELOPED
BUST!
Every woman can have a perfect figure. A deficiency in bust is
readily corrected by Dr. Kamjkkk’s Fi.ksn-Foon treatment. The best
evidence is that of those who have used it. It is never-failing. See
what MRS. E. WINGROVE, of Gynipie, Queensland, a skilled nurse,
says of its efficacy:—
“After leaving off your treatment I waited several months
to see if tlie results were permanent before writing you, and
I now wish to say that I think the treatment is absolutely
marvellous. Uefore adopting it 1 was only skin and hones,
hut now 1 am one of the best walking advertisements you
could have. It did all you claimed for it and really more,
and the results were startlingly ahead of my fondest expec-
tations. My health and appearance have improved most
satisfactorily, and I now thank you for urging me to have
(he treatment.”
Wo haven’t room to give you more letters here like this one, but we will send you scores of
them upon request. We possess thousands of grateful testimonials.
Many cases gain as much as 51b. a week, and improvements up to as much as ten inches
have been made in the bust measurements. Guarantee given in every case.
Put up in tablet form, it is pleasant to take, and palatable. It leaves no unpleasant after-
effects, and the results arc permanent and lasting. It can be taken secretly.
Free Illustrated Book I Free Trial Sample !
We want you to know just what FLESH-FOOD is, and will gladly give you a free sample.
Send a 2d. stamp, and let us forward a free trial sample and our instructive book on attenua-
tion “Lovely Women.” No matter where you live we can treat you successfully by post. All
correspondence is confidential and private, and all our literature is sent closelv covered and fiee
from observation. Write at once. You are placed .under no obligation whatever to buy because
you send for a sample. Cdll if convenient. Lady attendant. Hours: 10 to 4.30. L 18214
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney
THE CAN-MAKING INDUSTRY!
SANITARY—SIMPLE
EFFECTIVE—RAPID.
The Entire Top Open.
a
S
m
ENTERPRISING PRESERVE CANNERS in every part of the world
have come to realise that the old, slow, unsanitary method of
manufacturing and sealing cans by hand with poisonous solders is ob-
S ° le That is whv the MAX AMS SANITARY CANNING MACHINERY
is being used by the world’s leading canners. If you are using cans
lor packing preserves, fruits, vegetables, or in fact any food product, the
SANITARY, SOLDERLESS, HERMETICALLY SEALED CANS
made by these machines will save you time, money and labor.
No 58 and No. 68 Automatic Double Seamers will seal can tops on
bodies ldin high and 2in. in diameter up to 1 gallon and over. The
scope in the range of possible changes is instantly appreciated.
No adjusting or fussing, or mechanical skill required. Can be run
b ' These°machhies are BY NO MEANS confined to any PARTICULAR
CLASS of cans. The operation of these Seamers is SIMPLE. The
cans are automatically conveyed to the baseplate with the cover, and
INSTANTLY the CAN engages the rollers, making a CLEAN and tight
DOUBLE SEAM.
We Furnish Complete Outfit for Making These Cans.
For full particulars write to the
MAX AMS MACHINE CO.
MT. VERNON, NEW YORK, VJ.S.A.
OR THROUGH ANY EXPORT COMMISSION HOUSE.
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without, discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
J. to tempt death by Heart Disease;
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the ciav
hw the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
Yo\i Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FRFF SAMPLE, also our I'REE BOOKLE T
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.
Mr Franl: Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “l was a heavy smoker tor 60 years
but alter taking your treatment for IJ, days I
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.’’
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. 0,107 Casllereafih St, Sydney.
[2.
inpg for EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
J ' ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
<>it,y or country should miss.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CUNDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
Ain CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a. CENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
tin- reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women 8c children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO. t
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Bruisii Austra-
lasian, Gd. weekly— an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the Burn sin Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High I-lol-
born, London, W.C.. where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Treatment —As Before!
Here is a sample of what the deportees ate while
they were on board the Umgeni:—
Rise at 7 a.m. Breakfast at eight: Stewed fruit,
porridge, bacon and egg's, or devilled kidneys.
Luncheon. Irish stew, lamb sweetbreads, beefsteak
and onions (a favorite dish), rice pudding,
custard, stewed fruit, bread and cheese, water-
cress, celery, etc.
Tea: Bread and butter, watercress, etc., cakes
(muffins if preferred), toast, etc.
Dinner: Five courses. Soup, fish, joint, etc.
Supper: If required. •
All the Labor deportees looked remarkably well, and
when they stepped ashore at Gravesend they pre-
sented a far more hardy appearance than the worn
Labor leaders who had come so many miles and had
sat up all night.
“You may tell the people of England,” Mr.
Poutsma said, "that we protest with all our power
agaiiist the treatment that has been meted out to us.”
—London Daily News.
Comrades, leave me here —a minute —till I
get my speaking breath —
Climbing stairs —just after dinner —some-
how worries me —to death ;
Thanks- —a strong cigar—and whisky; I
shall soon be right again. . . .
Oh—that’s plenty —please. don’t drown
it!....Now I’ll tell our story plain.
Did we suffer? Oh. great Kruger! How
that d —d Umgeni rolled !
She was flying light, good comrades—only
ballast in the hold ;
For some days we all were seasick, pretty
well without a pause—
Comrades, were you ever seasick, without
fair or legal cause?
Ah, I thought not! Well, ’tis over; but, I
tell you. we were out!
Couldn’t eat a meal—existed on dry cheese
and bottled stout,
Till we’d long passed Cape Agulhas, where
the waves run mountains high—-
There were moments. I assure you. when we
only wished to die.
Life aboard that d —d Umgeni was a dull
and deadly round.
Draughts, discussions and deck-billiards, in
these things relief we found ;
Books and papers, too, they gave us, and at
cards we sadly played—
Oft assuaging our dread sea-thirst with a
dram of lemonade!
Picture, comrades, Nine Chained Eagles on
that d —d Umgeni’s deck !
Fretting, burning, madly yearning for her to
become a wreck—
So our foes should be frustrated —guess,
friends, what the true heart feels.
In between the weary, dreary, intervals of
daily meals !
Disten! Cruel things we’ve suffered—
things to make the strong man weep!
Flatulence and indigestion, on the wild and
lonely Deep—
Thanks—a wee one, just a snifter—and the
fear that brave men feel.
Lest, forgotten' in their cabins, sleeping,
they should miss a meal!
Comrades, here in Merrie England, you
know little — soda, please!
Of the treatment meted to us. and the perils
of the seas ;
Suffragettes who go to prison, and are.
willy-nilly, fed,
Have some faint idea of it....0h, my com-
rades! I have said.
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.
The Advt.
DEAR LOVE, —I cannot forget you; come back
to your own true love, and we will be friends for
ever. Your own True Love.—S. M. Herald.
"Some simple soul with love obsessed
Who thought (or so it would appear)
There was but one true love on earth
And but one lover really dear.
Has done this simple thing,” I said,
Then with the joke to Smith I fled.
I showed the thing to Smith : but he
Went suddenly and strangely red.
■“I can't go out with you to-night;
I’ve got a girl to meet,” he said.
And later oh I thought him mad.
When I observed him kiss the ad.
“You’re just a darned fool with your jokes!”
Said Brown when 1 the matter named.
“Because some poor kid is in love
/ don’t see why she should be blamed ;
And this girl has excuse,” said he.
“Because she is in love with me!”
They made me laugh : it seemed a jest
That each should take as personal
That simple par. To Robinson,
Whom next I met, I told it all.
“Oh, Smith and Brown are fools.” said he
“Because that thing was meant for me!”
To Jones, who is a married man,
I took my story in great glee.
But like a vyce he gripped my hand ;
“Oh, thanks, old chap for showing me” —
Ile gave my hand another wring—
“l might myself, have missed the thing!”
That night, with loneliness oppressed.
For all my pals seemed occupied,
I went to see a girl I knew.
“Oh lam glad you came!” she cried.
“For I was feeling lone and sad :
/ thoufiht yon miyht have missed my ad.!”
N.S.W.
HAMER


aron
Cigarettes
“All’s well that ends well”: —The last draw from a Sarony Cigarette is
invariably the most satisfying'.
In quality, flavor and aroma Sarony Cigarettes are pre-eminent.
Obtainable in both Turkish and Virginia, from all Leading Tobacconists.
Mao&factbred by NICOLAS SARONY & CO.,
New Boi)d Street, LONDON, W.
bui a
sis
HOTEL
METROPQIE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
ipay be secured separately by the day from 3s.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
“Lister-Bruston”
Automatic
Electric
Lighting
Plant
J9E
Flood Your Shop and Store with
Light without Fuss and Danger.
Many so-called “Patent” Lighting Plants
bring a whole sheaf of trouble and fuss
-—and are fraught with the danger of ex-
plosion. Electricity is the finest display
light, and it causes absolutely no trouble.
The “Lister-Brustor.” Plant (as illus-
trated, complete) generates Electricity
automatically. The Engine and Dynamo
start themselves as soon as the lights are
switched on. No costly
storage Battery is needed
—the lights are lit
direct from the Dynamo.
Low in cost and deliv-
ered practically ready
for connecting up
to Shop Wiring.
May we talk it
over with you in
person or by post ?
AGENTS: N.S.W.—W. Q. WATSON & CO., LTD., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
VIC.—SUTHERLAND & ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—CLUTTERBUCK BROS., Adelaide.
gd
i,Do You Long for a Full Moustache?
Then get the won-
derful moustache
producer.
CAPILLARINE.
This splendid preparation forces the hair growth and develops a smart, attract-
ive moustache in a very short time. No soreness or irritation is caused —it
gives sure and satisfactory results. Hundreds have proved its merit —-why
not you?
SEND FOR A JAR TO-DAY—IO/6 post free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each Post Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG (SL AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
'V. \
S *£#£^
■C(rh£
LAGER
Possesses distinctive qualities—it
is a delightfully refreshing, in-
vigorating and nourishing Lager
—valuable as a food for Nursing
Mothers, Invalids, etc.—apart from
its high-grade merit as a light
beverage.
OBTAINABLE at all FIRST-CLASS
CLUBS, HOTELS, RESTAURANTS,
etc.
V
\
MACINTOSHES £ OILSKINS
The “DERBY” Macintosh
(as illustrated).
in Olive, Fawn, Grey & Brown Shades,
35/-
TOatershed Oilskin
most protective coat for
RIDING, DRIVING, MOTORING
and WALKING.
MADE IN TWO WEIGHTS.
“DUGONG-WATERSHED,” light
make 32/6
“RAINBOW-WATERSHED,” stout
make 257-
Ask your storekeeper for “Watershed”
oilskins, and if he does not stock them
send your order direct to us. We Pay
Carriage. Patterns sent on request.
gf
“TITAN” HOT WATER BAGS.
WARM COMFORTS FOR COLD NIGHTS, GUARANTEED TWO SEASONS
10x8 .. 0/9. With cover ..7/9. 12 x 8 . . 7/0. With cover .. 8/0.
Send for a copy of our New Illustrated List, No. 35. Post Free.
RUBBER CO. LTD .
270 George Street, Sydney.
105 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
307 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
WISE HOUSEKEEPERS
Wise Housekeepers always use SHI-NOLEUM —
they find that for Polishing Linoleums and Furniture
there is nothing to equal it.
SHI-NOLEUM brings up all the beauti-
ful colours in the Linoleums and preserves
them for years—it is so easy that it will
save you hours of work.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
\
fS
IMU
m
C
The Chinese use this Symbol to Express Completeness.
The perfect balance—the unbroken circle —these denote unity. The symbol stands
for something that is absolutely self-contained and complete.
For example, look at
Swift’s High-Speed Radial Drilling Machines
For
Heaviest
Duty.
Bft. RADIAL DRILL.
If you are looking for a fast and economical driller here s the machine.
Swift’s Drills are English made. Every part is built for strength and convenience
of working.
There is no experimenting when you buy a Swift Drill. Satisfaction is assured.
Carried in stock by
BENSON BROTHERS, LIMITED
(CITY 4143),
Who are Sole Agents and carry in stock All Classes of Engineers’ Machine Tools,
51-53 Druitt Street, SYDNEY. 60 Queen Street, MELBOURNE^


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
,Vol. 35‘— No. 1788.
THURSDAY, MAY 21, 1914.
PUICR !►!>•
RESUMING BUSINESS.
Australian manufacturers’ week being finished, importers’ 51 weeks start again.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave afid McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: { f 3 f Q \
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
il 6s. 6d. per Annum, including Special
Christmas Number, post paid.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty -
Six Shillings and Sixpence Sterling you can have
The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy,” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say. SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS '. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Cordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C., G. S. Forsyth and Co., kk 1 Hastings Street
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal. j Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street
Hong Kong. 3
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs
Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltc , Adelaide—at
k/6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising '•dates, size 6sin.
x Hin., and gelatine transparence >■ will be for-
warded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired.
Postage Hates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Routt, 160 z., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: Boz., Id Bioz
to lffoz 2\d.; lOoz. to IZoz., Bd.; elsewhere, koz'.,
Id., jjna id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MAY 21, 1914
THE MIXED LAMENTATIONS OF
JEREMIAH.
Melbourne had its annual Eight Hours’
procession on a recent day, and there was an
innovation. The “three eights” are a fea-
ture of such exhibitions. They stand for
eight hours’ work, which ought to be enough
in any country which has a decent know-
ledge of machinery and a decent idea of
economy ; eight hours’ sleep, which isn’t too
much, p'rovided the sleeper doesn’t snore;
and eight hours —with all Sunday added—
for washing, dressing, undressing, recreation,
pleasant intercourse with the family, drink-
ing with friends, cutting the grass in the
garden, shaving, haircutting, cultivating
roses and dogs and hens, reading, writing,
bjking, painting the cottage, repairing the
fence, surf-bathing, removing the strange
cat,, composing poems, banking the family
savings,. collecting stamps, boating, fishing
(which includes digging up worms for bait),
child-spanking, attending political meetings,
attending church, boot-cleaning and sundries.
Attending funerals is not necessarily in-
cluded, for any decent employer grants his
employee leave of absence when he has to
bury a relative. The eight hours allowed
for all these miscellaneous jobs may not
look sufficient, but then the hours of labor
are imperative. A country has to cut its
time according to its circumstances. If
its machinery or its intellig' nee is not of the
best it must toil longer in order to avoid
going over the hill to the poorhouse. If it has
loaded itself with such an insane mass of need-
less foreign debt, that the insane interest bill
calls for an extra hour’s labor per day it
must put in that extra hour, or look for
worse trouble later on. If it is still borrow-
ing, regardless of consequences, it may expect
something more than an extra hour of toil
later on. If it is so abjectly subservient to
the big landlords of Melbourne or Sydney or
some other place as to subscribe to their
doctrine that all the trade of more than
400,000 square miles of country must
be concentrated at the big landlords’
ports, there is a tremendous amount
of needless haulage to pay for. And
as the producer must meet the bill in the
final resort, unless the country files its
schedule, that also means, in the long run,
a little extra work per diem. If the pro-
ducer compelled his stereotyped politicians
to use such splendid and neglected harbors as
Portland, Westernport, Twofold Bay, Jervis
Bay, Port Stephens, Gladstone, Bowen and
Port Darwin as the foundation of a group
of cities of which the community was sole
ground landlord, it might make so much
profit—between the ground rents and the sav-
ing in railway distances —that it could hon-
estly cut half an hour or an hour off the
working day. As it does nothing of the
sort, it can’t honestly cut half an hour off
the working day.
* * * *
This is a very long deviation or paren-
thesis, and it is time to get back to the
original text. The eight hours’ banner has
always been a feature of the Eight Hours day
procession. In Melbourne, a six hours’
banner has appeared by way of variety.
JNow. there is no earthly reason why the
working day shouldn’t be reduced to six
hours if, during that time, the community
does enough work to (1) pay its way and
keep itself out of the pawnbrokery; (2) shift
at least a trifle of the insane old debt burden ;
and (3) make such reasonable provision for
defence and development as mav prevent
some Asiatic nation annexing Australia and
turning the daughters of the six-hour workers
into slaves and compulsory harlots—in other
words, make ■ the country sufficiently attrac-
tive to draw hither the good white popula-
tion which is so badly needed if Australia
is to be kept free and white. So long as these
matters are attended to, there is no cause
why the working day shouldn’t be cut down
to even five hours —or four. Unhappily,
the subjects enumerated are not being at-
tended to. On the evidence of the export
and import returns, the foreign loan busi-
ness, and the immigration statistics, things
have been so vilely muddled that there is
more immediate need to lengthen the work-
ing day than to abbreviate it. In other
words, the Land of Fools’ Paradise has been
going on even a little worse than usual.
. During 1913, the statistics for which are
just to hand, Australia put up certain per-
formances. It added more to its aggre-
gate debt than it ever did in a single pre-
vious year. It spent more than usual of the
new debt for unproductive purposes—other-
wise for pure loafing, swindle and casual-
ness. It shoved up the debt per head to a
higher point than it ever previously attained.
The average rate of interest went up to a
point which hadn’t been reached since 1907
—presumably because the bottom of the pub-
lic credit is beginning to leak or fade or
fall out or something. The net revenue
from public works, despite the vast loan ex-
penditure, fell heavily. There was an
unusual heap oi deficits and an unusual need
for new taxation. There were more strikes,
more sacrifice of earning power, and more
confusion and swelled head over paltry six-
penny disputes in 1913 than the country
ever formerly saw or imagined in 12 months
of its record. There was more disturbance
than the average about high rents and the
high cost of living, which high events were
the natural result of the loan boom ; and in
the States (N.S.W. and Westralia) which
loan-boomed most the cost of living
went highest, and the strikes were
most abundant, and the private enter-
prise land-shark made the biggest har-
vest out of the fool toiler. It is the blessed
privilege of the fool toiler, when he entrusts
his affairs to crude public lunatics, to bor-
row huge sums abroad in order that there
may be a boom, and that he may be charged
double rents and may pay twice as much
for his allotment as it is worth, and that, in
the end, he may be left with the allotment
and the debt and the slump on his hands.
* * # *
Then, as a further item in the category of
ill-omen, foreign imports struck the roof.
They attained to the tower, the spire, the
cupola, the sky-scraper, the Chimborazo, the
balloon, or anything else that suggests mag-
nificent elevation. The total value of Aus-
tralia’s foreign imports, in 1913, was
£79,743,450. In 1905 the total was
£38,346,731. So the amount of work which
this country didn’t do for itself more than
doubled in eight years. The amount of
things it didn’t make for itself more than
doubled. The quantity of employment it
didn’t supply for its own people, and the
number of chances it didn’t seize to secure a
big, solid, reliable white population which
would help to carry its gun and its liabilities,
and build its railways, and defend its great
doctrine of a White Continent, more than
doubled. But there was by no means the
same increase in the matter of exports. This
country has indulged of late in a riot of
IO U. (Incidentally the capitalistic Hol-
man Government of N.S.W. has abolished
the special tax on absentees, being appar-
ently anxious to encourage every form of
foreign liability.) Nowadays Australia, un-
less it is to sink further and further into
the mire, has to export about £16.000.000
worth more goods than it imports, the sur-
plus being required to cover the interest bill.
The last year in which it made even a fair
pretence of meeting its liabilities was 1910.
In 1913 the value of Australian imports ex-
ceeded that of exports by £1,225.065.
Roughly speaking, the country acquired
about £1 i ,000,000 of new foreign burdens,
which is a record. It was naturally a year
of great artificial prosperity, for Chakles
Surface, or the Trodigal Son, or the .Jubilee
Juggins always has a year of great pros-
perity while he is spending his substance
and his capital and his credit in riotous
living. That is what riotous living is for —
to make prosperity and swelled head and
joy and kidney disease while it lasts. Even
Ernest Terah Hooley had a great time,
and presented a golden communion service
to St. Paul’s Cathedral in London, before
he went to gaol. Because Australia did the
foreign backsliding act in 1913 to the ex-
tent of £17,000,000 or more, rents and land
prices and food prices couldn’t do other
than boom. The boom was general. In
N.S.W. the foreign loan money available
for a family of five —father, mother and
three children—ran to 10s. per week. And
the old man bought a cigar out of his share
of the great financial transaction, and
smoked it peacefully in the evening, and rec-
koned that this was a fine large country,
and it was absurd to work such long hours,
seeing that everything was prosperous.
* * * *
It was only natural that, 1913 being the
year of special madness, the increase of
population should be less than formerly.
Immigration fell off materially. The natural
increase by excess of births over deaths
didn’t expand as it should have done ; thus
1912 was 6587 better than 1911, but 1913
was only 3014 better than 1912. The total
increase of Australia’s population was
164,652 in 1912, and only 138,700 in 1913.
Artisans stream to a country which makes
things, instead of importing them, for that
country supplies work. But there is not much
to bring them to a country which imports
things instead of making things, and which
offers the immigrant a share of the biggest
debt on earth instead of a job. If the loan
and importing boom could by any possibility
keep growing at the present rate for another
five years it is fairly probable that immigra-
tion would cease altogether. But the loan
business is frightfuly precarious. Jew Bull
lends money to Australia, and renews his old
loans to Australia because he thinks that
John Bull’s navy and army are strong
enough to protect his (Jew Bull’s) money
in Australia. He has no visible faith in the
defensive capacity of this country’s scanty
population, and its boy army, and its infant
navy, and its unbuilt transcontinental rail-
way. Nobody has much real faith in an
empty country which, instead of importing
men, prefers to import boots and petticoats
and debts. It doesn’t look like a defensible
proposition. One day John Bull, who has
already gathered his fleet round his own
shores in order to protect his food supply,
will realise, under stress, that the time for
remote adventure by sea is over—at least,
for a time. That is to say, the small in-
vestor to whom the big loan-monger peddles
this country’s securities will realise the fact,
and the desire to lend money to small and
practically unprotected communities on the
far horizon will fade to nothingness. So
Jew Bull, the loan-monger, will leave off
doing new business for lack of a market, and
his remarks about the renewal of old busi-
ness will be unpublishable.
*** . *
Then, as already mentioned, it will be
time to increase the present working day to
nine or 10 hours, instead of. reducing it to
six hours. And even if John Bull doesn’t
strike a sudden panic, that sort of time will
come one day or another, for faith in a
nation of hopeless borrowers must fade some
day. The present industrial situation rests
on a rotten basis, under which, taking Aus-
tralia as a whole, something dike £3 10s. or
£4 per annum of other people’s money is
served out annually to every man. woman
and child in the community, and the bill is
left to posterity. Either there isn’t enough
work done, or the work isn’t good enough, or
the proceeds of the work are fooled away by.
mismanagement. The inevitable end will be
a very long line of people outside the soup-
kitchen. And in its dreams The Bulletin
sees in that line a slender figure, and a
melancholy, cameo-like face, and a shattered
hat, and a faded, greenish coat, and two burst
hoots, and a hand which holds out a ticket
on which is the name of W. A. Holman.
THE HUMOROUS ASPECT OF PUBLIC
FINANCE.
Public Finance is an interesting study for
those who take the trouble to study it.
There is more thrill in it than in a “Dead-
wood Dick” romance. It covers the biggest
swindles on earth, and the most outrageous
frauds, and the best jokes, and the worst
jokes. The forged will and the incriminat-
ing document in the melodrama are nothing
to it. It is the entire narrative of political
snuffle and incompetence, and the whole story
of Ministerial lying and imposture.
Consider, for instance, the public debts of
the Australian States. They are an inter-
esting feature of this country’s history. They
tell, in a few words, how Australia missed
the ’bus. In 1901 the States owed
£203,000,000 and some odd money. In 1913
they owed £294,000,000 and some sundries.
In a time of profound peace and general pros-
perity the wonderful new continent went
£91,000,000 to the bad or to the dogs, or
whatever the destination or the animal may
be called. When war strikes this country,
and money is wanted at the rate of
£2,000,000 a week or more, to pay for de-
fence, and the earning power of the com-
munity drops one-half or three-fourths
because the men are away trying to
put up some sort of resistance, and
when the women and girls harness
themselves to the ploughs because the
horses have been requisitioned for military
purposes, and when nobody will lend Aus-
tralia a copper at any rate of interest
because it has used up all its credit in time of
peace—in the day of these happenings Aus-
tralians will probably look back with aston-
ishment on the pampered epoch when even
a bye-road was charged up to loans because
a puffed-up community couldn’t be troubled
to pay for it in cash.
* * * *
Out of £91,000,000 which was added to the
gross'debt of the Australian States between
June, 1901, and June, 1913, New South
Wales was responsible for £39,000,000 and
Westralia for £17,500,000. In the matter of
floating loans these two States were the prize
shocks of the Commonwealth. The gross
debt per inhabitant increased from £53 1-1 s.
6d. in 1901 to £GI 6s. 6d. in 1913. Westralia
added £29 Os. 4d. per inhabitant to its debt;
Tasmania, £9 10s. Bd.; New South Wales,
£9 ss. 6d. The other States were fairly
honest as public honesty goes hereabouts, so,
despite the huge profligacy of the three worst
members of the brotherhood, the total in-
crease of debt per head was only £7 12s. per
inhabitant. Still that was enough. At
June 30, 1913, the financial backslidings of
the different States showed up in this
fashion:—
Gross Debt Per Inhabitant.
Westralia ..£96 8 51 Tasmania ..£59 2 0
Queensland .. 81 13 7 | N.S.W. .. 58 14 10
S. Australia .. 69 10 £ | Victoria . . 45 3 0
An interesting feature of the case is the
increase in the velocity of the loan disease.
Between 1901 and 190 S the Australian States
borrowed £40,000,000. Between 1908 and
1913, which was a much shorter period, they
cadged £51,000,000. The average cadge dur-
ing 12 years was £7,500,000 per annum. But
the aggregate lOU floated in the last year
of the 12 ran to almost £20,000,000. A
period of heroic madness was 1913, and on
present appearances 1914 will be the period
of complete lunacy. In the case of Westralia
it is interesting to note that one of the
biggest goldfields in history should be on its
death bed leaving about the biggest debt in
history behind it.
The rate of interest lias gone up, as a
matter of course. In 1912 the average
interest charge on all the Australian public
debts was £3 11s. 4d. per cent, per annum.
In 1913 it was £3 11s. lid. The old loans
necessarily remained at the old figure, but
the new ones were bought at a great price.
Jacob shook his wise old head at the fre-
quent visitation of his children, and re-
marked that the value of “monish” had
become a matter for serious reflection. Vic-
toria was the only State in which the aggre-
gate interest rate dropped in 1913, but then
Victoria is run by a man with a bulldog
jaw, who, despite all his limitations, has
some dim idea of honesty and solvency.
There isn’t very much to be said for Wil-
liam Watt, but at least he contrives to
improve the credit of his State a trifle, while
that of every other State is a fading quan-
tity and a vanishing institution. The
aggregate annual interest bill expanded by
£3,131,356 between 1901 and 1913 —it rose
from £7,455,032 to £10,586,388. That is
nothing small or mean or narrow or limited
in the way of heaping up public burdens in
a time of peace and prosperity and alleged
good government. In 12 years South Aus-
tralia’s yearly interest bill grew by
£98,329; Tasmania’s by £108,347; Vic-
toria’s by £329,425; Queensland’s by
£606,870; Westralia’s by £631,436; and
N.S.W.’s by £1,356,859. No one can say
that Australia is not doing itself proud in
the matter of pawning posterity.
* * * *
Still there is one redeeming feature in
the case. It isn’t much of a feature, yet it
is better than no feature at all. In every
State there has been, at one time or another,
a faint spasm of remorse in the old man’s
waistcoat about the bill he was leaving to
his son with no reproductive works to show
for it—the bill for his laziness, his incapa-
city, his thirst and his general tendency to
shirk his responsibilities. So he started a
sinking fund to pay off some of his steals,
and sometimes he kept the fund going, while
at other times he didn’t. This is the result
of his partial repentance :—-
Sinking Funds.
Increase since
Present Total. 1901.
Westralia .. ..£3,309,345 £2,880,118
Victoria .. .. 1,226,667 1,018,383
Tasmania .. . . 496,031 326,485
S. Australia . . .. 299,567 266,688
Queensland .. ~ 51,347 51,347
Decrease since
1901.
N.S.W. .. .. 381,893 4,490
£5,764,850 £4,538,531
The Westralian infant has at least some-
thing on which he may congratulate him-
self. He owns one-tenth of the gross debt,
but he also owns much more than half the
money accumulated for the repayment of
the debt. His old man may be no better
than any other old man as regards the
purposes to which he applies the loans, but
at least he is repaying a visible portion of
the ill-gotten gains and carrying some share
of the dead horse. The discrepancy between
debts and sinking funds shows up in this
way:—
Gross Debt Repayment
(1913). Fund (1913).
N.S.W £106,170,747 £381,893
Victoria . . . . 62,776,724 1,226,667
Queensiand . . 53,604,733 51,347 '
Westralia . . 30,276,436 3,309,345
SA. . . . . 30,147,883 299,567
Tasmania . . . . 11,495,963 496,031
Except in the case of Westralia, these pro-
fessions to repay the public debt are a
pathetic jest. And even in Westralia things
arq not what they were. Premier Scaddan
may be a good Laborite, but he is also a rav-
ing and unscrupulous financial lunatic, and
when he “blewed” loan money at the rate of
£ll 3s. 7d. per inhabitant for the single year
which ended at June 30, 1913, he exceeded
the speed limit and should have been
arrested for furious driving among the
tents of Israel. The whole revenue
of the British Isles doesn’t amount
to much more per head than one-
third of the sum which the dreadful and
impossible Scaddan borrowed. A very im-
probable sort of financier is Scaddan, and
his doings are wonderfully mad.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Good Citizenship and Bad Strikes.
Arbitration Courts and leader-writers have
been much concerned lately about something
they call the minimum or living wage. It*
seeips they have been looking for it,, and the
trouble they have had in finding it has* been
tremendous. They might have saved them-
selves a lot of bother. When you want a
minimum wage you have to make it. And
when you have made it to-day you probably
find it a misfit to-morrow and have to make
another. It is a fugitive creature of time
and place and circumstance. If Brother
Bingiii had to make the substance or shadow
or whatever it is, he would construct it out
of two ’possums and a gohanna, The


Javanese coolie would make his out of
a hatful of rice and a bunch of
bananas. It is comparatively easy to
find out how much of the most nutri-
tious food will keep a person alive and well,
and how much of the most serviceable
material it will take to cover him where he
needs covering! and the cost can be arrived
at pretty closely. But that, plus the cost of
as much house as is necessary to protect him
the weather, doesn t nowadays con-
stitute what is meant by minimum wage.
It may mean a million other things—nobody
knows for 1 certain what it does mean but it
is generally agreed that it doesn t mean that.
If the price of potatoes goes up the living
wage isn’t to-day what it was yesterday.
Also the living wage of a person who needs
two potatoes goes up more than that of
the other person who needs only one. The
living or minimum wage, at the best, is a
mere estimate of what is the smallest fair
thing to pay a person for his services. It
isn’t anything definite that you can swear
to, like a cow or a grindstone. And, seeing
that what is a fair living wage for one per-
son isn’t likely to be exactly as fair a living
wage for another person, or what is a fail-
living wage for Monday isn’t likely to be just
as fair for Tuesday, when beans are a
ha’penny a pound more, any living or mini-
mum wage, after it has been set up, must be
a compromise if it is to apply to more than
one person and more than one day. In
fact, every kind of wage and nearly every
other kind of charge or payment, is a com-
promise. There is very little absolute jus-
tice in this world, and in most things we
have left off wasting our own time and other
people’s in trying to get it. It doesn’t cost
as much to haul a 7st. customer over the
railways as it does to shift 16st. of human
bone and beef, but the 7st. mannikin doesn’t
hold up the train while he argues the point
with the station-master. It costs more to
carry a letter from Melbourne to Milparinka
than it does to shift another from Sydney to
Surry Hills; but the Sydney man who wants
to post the Surry Hills letter doesn’t shove
the Postmaster-General in a corner and hang
up the P.M.G.’s business and his own while
he poiiits out the flagrant injustice of it;
and "if he called a meeting to organise a
strike against putting penny stamps on let-
ters to Surry Hills, and to prevent letters
going anywhere else till the dispute was
settled, he would be scoffed at either as a luna-
tic or as a citizen who didn’t know the first
thing about good citizenship. What is
chiefly the matter with the modern worker
who' is ready to strike offhand against an
arbitration award or any other thing is that
he |fails to recognise that the whole
machinery of civilisation is built on com-
profnise, and on the estimate of somebody, put
in Authority by the whole mass of the people,
as Jo what is a fair thing on the whole.
Arbitration can’t do more than that; but it
isn’t open to condemnation on that account,
any more than the practice of charging the
7st. mannikin and the 16st. mass the same
railway fare; and if the station-master refused
to tfarn the whole system upside down and
malfe the lighter man a concession, the idea
of me lighter man putting old sleepers across
the rails would be simply unthinkable. The
cdnamunity has learned what good citizenship
means in that respect, but some of it is still
blankly ignorant of what is required of it in
precisely similar circumstances in industrial
matters.
♦
The Blessed Canopy of Heaven.
Dear Bulletin, —One night last week I got
home late to my domicile at Mosman (Syd-
ney/j and sat down hard on the verandah,
and watched the moon rising like a new-
bright sixpence, gummed on the roof of the
teitt of all eternity. There were six or seven
pianos being smitten with an arm of might
Within my range of listening. It is in the
hour of moonrise that the evening-dress
female, with seven inches of her spine show-
ing, lashes out at the inoffensive instrument.
Incidentally, three women were singing. One
was worse than the other two, if such a
thing could be possible, which it couldn’t.
They all tore the canopy of Heaven with
their top notes. Also, a man was singing.
1 think it was Harry Lauder’s uncle.
There was nothing left of the canopy cf
Heaven save a dishcloth when he was
through. It made me feel so depressed that
1 went to bed. In the early morning the
same pianos were going, but now it was the
small, pig-tailed daughter who was making
discords before going to school. She also
smote the keys like the very devil. The
ft? ui S w h° had been up all night repairing
the blessed canopy of Heaven saw their work
hanging in tatters again. Later in the day I
read, that the new Sydney Conservatorium of
Music, which is being made, partly at my
expense, out of the Federal Government
House stables, is nearly completed, and that
shrieking will shortly be taught, partly at
my expense, on the premises. This doesn’t
seem to give peace and holy calm much of a
show. I voted for the crowd now in office
a number of reasons, one of them being
that it promised, on its honor as a gentle-
man, to abolish the superfluous State Gov-
ernor. The fact that it was going to pre-
serve and pamper the State Governor, and
throw out the Federal Governor, and use part
of his premises (partly at my expense) as a
college for the teaching of many noise-
makers, when there is a much greater demand
tor domestic servants, didn’t occur to me,,
iNot a week passes without the hat going
round for the benefit of some budding and
superfluous singer or musician who is alleged
to f be ° n the way to fame, and the multiplicity
of these people who make vocal or instru-
mental shouts becomes a serious financial
burden. Incidentally, I notice that the Gov-
which is scattering money in a fine,
on a scheme for teaching the
Vi, nf ? nt i to make morning uninhabitable,
! ? cal grown-up to make evening im-
-18 1 ? ore tMn £1,100,000 behind in
vlr , f 9 r the first 30 months of the
nf rpvAnvinV S despite the ordinary growth
IWUo Its unparalleled borrow-
lts. huge additions to the taxes,
fts reducHon en nf°!l ° f the Fund < and
Wnrhs F»«u of Payments to the Fublic
bndv in n 7 his saving to tax every-
infants mn?h e i° f s l regs ’ in order that more
Fraver ” taaght to elay the “Maiden’s
mosthhone Way be rushe <l later on into the
earth and tw overcrowded profession on
mnlifvin7 fthey may, while they are
abundant in r +^u leir ? ob ’ make insomnia more
S ® the suburbs, is too much. I
th k the canopy of Heaven ought to be con-
sidered, and not be dragged to pieces by the
cries of Miss Ann Jane Bloggs and Miss
Amelia Bkiggs. It is the only thing of the
kind we have. —Tours, etc., Henby Hoese-
collab.
A Matter of Ports.
“Leo Leab,” his Reflections: —
Eighteen months ago Portland (Vic.) slumbered.
It slept almost as soundly as the little township
on Nelson Bay, Port Stephens (N.S.W.). Land
values were on the same mark that they had toed
30 years ago; few blocks exchanged hands; new
buildings were aa scarce as kerosene tins in a molten
world; population dwindled year by year; banks
closed down; cockles grew in the streets and grass
on the pier. Then, one sudden morning, the Vic.
Government announced a scheme for utilising the
empty harbor. At once things began to happen.
Agents appeared; landlords commenced a prolonged
and steady push at the stern end of the rent ladder;
blocks and buildings that had been on auctioneers’
books since the death of Donald, the Prophet, were
snapped up by the early birds, _ and an advance of
50 per cent, was demanded and secured within 24 hours.
Portions valued at £BO sold for £lOO, then £2OO,
then £4OO, all within a week. A lot worth for-
merly £l5O went for £650, and so on. Owners
of half- and quarter-acres cut their holdings up into
slum areas and built thereon. These are now let
out at rents_ that a person would sniff at in a first-
class Melbourne suburb. And all because the Gov-
ernment gave its pro. note to spend a few thousands
in making the town what it should always have been
—the outlet of the AVest.
Presently the Government decided to join in the
boom. Instead of holding its blocks in and near
the town, many of them have been sold under the
hammer, which is where, to my mind, the Government
has missed the ’bus. If Watt and Co. had stuck to
their heritage, built, on it as occasion demanded,
and leased it out as the private landlord does, the
earnings, when the future city erected itself, would
pay interest and sinking fund on all harbor works
from generation to generation. Free beers and pic-
ture shows might be provided out of earnings every
second Saturday, which would cause a further influx
of population, and a greater demand for houses, and
still higher rents, and in consequence more interest
and another surplus available for free beers, the
inevitable result of which would be another rush
from Melbourne, and so on, and so on, ad infinitum.
No one would be hurt by the State building and
becoming a landlord as suggested. Private indi-
viduals never owning any of the land in question
would not miss that which they had not possessed.
The landlords’ rents might be cut a little, and their
feelings hurt; but when the rent for a five-roomed
wooden house jumps from 10s. to 15s. a week in one
leap, bound or step, a few damaged feelings seem
more or less in keeping.
And there is another matter to be considered. In
the town under notice all the rises in land values,
and rent advances are the direct product of spending,
or the proposal to spend, some thousands of public
money on a hitherto stagnant port. The Holman
Government of N.S.W. is up against it in a financial
sense. Their capital city is congested commer-
cially ; their good ports are languishing for the want
of railways and a chance to develop. These facts,
plus the recent happenings at Portland, suggest that
it is time they got busy. At present Holman is in
the position of one who, while earning a precarious
quid a week, insists on keeping on the walls of his
ruined domicile a couple of pictures worth £lO,OOO
apiece. In the present state of N.S.W.’s finances
the Holman Administration simply can’t afford to
allow Sydney and themselves the luxury of two unde-
veloped ports with the vast potentialities of Port
Stephens and Jervis Bay.
«
The Melbourne Shirker and Importer.
Melboubne’s hopeless Board of Shirks,
which Premier Watt ought long since to
have replaced by a Greater Melbourne Coun-
cil, has its own way of discouraging Aus-
tralian industry while encouraging importa-
tions. When annually inviting tenders for
its supplies it doesn’t specifically bar Aus-
tralian goods. It merely asks quotations
for specified brands of goods—said brands
being, of course, foreign—or other “ap-
proved” brands. Unfortunately the Aus-
tralian brand never is approved. Thus,
supplies of paints, varnishes, oils, etc., must
all be the manufacture of foreign firms.
Even such a well-known and satisfactory
local product as phenyl is of no use to the
Board. It must have the disinfectant of a
specified English firm, or none, though the
Australian article is usually considered
superior. Having arranged matters nicely
with the importers the precious Board tries
to save its face by inviting Australian manu-
facturers to tender for such huge orders as
“one gallon of gold size,” “five gallons of
terebine,” “two gallons of coach varnish.”
Of course the Board as a whole doesn’t
come to these peculiar decisions, it merely
passes holus bolus the recommendations of a
small committee ; and the diminutiveness of
that committee and the persistence with
which it carries out this unpatriotic policy
hints at the payment of secret commissions
—in other words, “graft.” The Victorian
Railway Commissioners, too, need some roll-
ing up. They have so far let contracts in
connection with the electrification of the
suburban lines for sums totalling £2,270,208,
and of that huge amount a paltry £85,251
stays in the country. The rest goes to the
foreigner. lie does the interesting, scientific
part of the work —constructing the power
station, boilers, steel work for buildings,
alternators and transformers, coach equip-
ment, switch gear, fiverhead track equip-
ment, etc. The Australian’s little lot is the
making of the condensing plant and the pick-
work. We’re a futile, hopeless
lot of jobbers.
♦
The Australian Immigrant—Who Isn’t
Wanted.
The other day Coroner Cole, of Melbourne,
after inquesting three untimely deceased
babies, animadverted on the practice of
weaning babies from birth, so to speak. This
paper wearies of Cole’s futile animadver-
sions. He is always speaking firmly about
something or someone, and that is as far as
he gets. In these three cases the private-
nurses had dried up the mothers’ natural
flow of milk, in order that they—the
mothers, all of whom were single women —
might go away and get work. Cole stated
that, had the infants been nourished as
Nature intended for a month, they would,
in all probability, have lived. As it was,
they, were boarded out and fed on cows
milk and barley water, or roast duck and
toasted cheese, or some other old diet that
they couldn’t assimilate. Cole didn’t
blame the foster mothers —they had
done., all they could. Neither did he
condemn the mothers —he is probably
well aware of the handicap placed by society
on the girl Who tries to earn a living while
rearing a small baby. But he spoke quite
caustically about the nurses who interfered
with Nature’s provisions and intentions by
stopping the children’s natural sustenance.
What he should do, instead of perpetually
railing at the criminal waste of child life,
is to rail at the criminally-casual \v att
Ministry, for not having provided, long since,
an adequate Maternity Home, where the new
mother might dwell for a while and nourish
her offspring till it was able to make a
good battle for existence, and where it might
remain for some time afterwards, while its
mother was earning her crust. At present
the unsupported mother has a choice of
three courses with regard to her new, fresh
baby. She can board it out at once, and go
and earn her sustenance. She can abandon
it on the nearest doorstep; or she can put
it out of its misery by dropping it in the
Yarra with a cord round its neck. Coroner
Cole probably disapproves of methods Nos.
2 and 3, and he condemns No. 1. But
no Victorian Government has yet provided
the only alternative. So what is the girl
to do? So far as the State is concerned the
third course is probably the least extrava-
gant. It saves expenditure, in many cases,
on an inquest, funeral and sundries—that is
to say where the job is well and truly done.
But even then it represents criminal extrava-
gance. Every such infant is brought into the
country at an average cost of between £l5
and £2O, and if it deceases that money is dead
loss; whereas, if it can be persuaded to sur-
vive, _ the country gets a reproductive asset
and is pounds the richer. Besides, Watt,
Weary and Co. say they want to increase
the population.
The Inflated Allotment.
According to certified figures in a pro-
spectus issued by a Sydney firm of land
jobbers, their net profits ran from £3942
in the 12 months to the end of June, 1909,
up to £54,033 in the 15 months to t the end
of March, 1913. Between 1904 dnd 1909
the profits were £25,123. Then came the
non-borrowing Labor Government with the
biggest borrowing boom-' on record, and in
the next 4| years the profits of this one
firm of non-productive traders in soil and
unearned increment ran up to £145,213.
Also, according to independent valuations,
the unsold land in the jobbers’ hands was
worth £52,000 more than the book value,
so that, if the land is sold, the profits will
be £52,000 more. And 10 years ago the
entire capital of the concern was only
£5000! The plan is and has been to buy
from Smith in a lump and sell
to Jones and Brown in small lots
for two or three or 10 times as much
money. If Jones and Brown got good
value it wouldn’t matter much what profit
there was for the land-jobbers; rbut a bor-
rowing boom always and inevitably means
inflated prices, and when the boom blows
out the inflated prices drop dead; where-
upon Jones and Brown can’t sell for £5O
the land they paid £5OO for. Probably
Jones and Brown had their wages put up
while things were. booming, and reckoned
that booms were all right, after all; but
they are liable to change their views when
they find that £450 of the extra money they
thought they had earned has found its way
into the pouches of people who certainly
hadn’t , earned a penny of it. Every borrow-
ing boom has this result: It makes rich
men of land jobbers and most other kinds
of jobbers. And since these men don’t pro-
duce anything and can’t get rich that way,
it follows that they must pick the fruits of
the industry of those who do work and
produce something. But the most amazing
thing of all is that the N. S. Wales borrow-
ing boom which thus makes millionaires of
people who do no labor is the policy of
people who call themselves the Labor party!
The N. S. Wales Presbyterian Assembly is
the latest body to be urged by one of its
potentates to fight the compulsory training
system, mainly to get more ample provision
made for the conscientious objector. But
the conscientious objector is amply provided
for already. If he won’t train, the Common-
wealth offers him an alternative. Certainly
it isn’t the most useful alternative. Maori-
land is talking of putting him to work on
the roads instead, and there are points about
that. The conscientious objector who ob-
jected to good roads would be laughed at;
and the man who had put in a month a year
for (say) seven years learning how to
make roads might be almost as useful when
the great trouble comes as the man who can
shoot. The nasty feature of the case, so
far as the peaceful and conscientious road-
builder is concerned, is that he would pro-
bably have to go ahead of the army and be
shot first.
Maokiland was handed some refreshingly
straight talk at Wellington the other day
by Dr. Mackenzie. The Hospital Board
was wondering whether it should invest a
big lump of good cash in a mite of radium
in the hope that the marvellous metal might
give some relief to cancer patients, when
Dr. Mackenzie rose up and began to say
things. He said that the general medical
opinion was that the increase in the number
of cancer patients was entirely due to the
greater age to which people were now living
on the average, and that in consequence a
great number of people now died of cancer
who a few years ago would have died earlier
of something else. He contended that the
matter wasn’t urgent. The people who were
dying of cancer were mostly old, and had
done the biggest portion of their life’s work,
and were not nearly so important as the
multitude of young men and women who
were dying of syphilis. He urged the
Board, before going into the question of
attempting to save the lives of old people
who would have to die of something soon
anyhow, to take definite steps to combat
syphilis, which he described as the most
prevalent and deadly disease on earth. He
pointed out that the idea is gaining ground
amongst medical men that cancer and tuber-
culosis are due to the deterioration of the
tissues through the taint of syphilis in the
blood. The fact that several doctors have
been explaining in Maoriland lately that
syphilis is the modern curse, and that through
it desperate operations are performed every
day to bring relief to innocent women, has
caused lOU Land to wake up and try to
do something. Perhaps it will do
something some of these days. It might
make a start by taking the axe to Y.W.C.A.
and other so-called “purity” brigades who
hang on to the coat-tails of Progress and
Humanity.
Magistrate Read Mubphy, addressing a
squad of youthful drill-shirkers at Melb.
District Court, put their shirking in a light
where the apostles of peace had never been
asked to regard it. The mag. said that no
youth can have “conscientious scruples”
against physical training, which is all that
the present military work amounts to. If
he were ordered to fight an enemy later on
his conscience might prompt him to decline
the job, but in the meantime the boy soldier
is only carrying out his duty to the educa-
tion system of the country. Military train-
ing is part of the system in every State.
Conscience doesn’t justify the shirker in
playing wag from the State school because
there’s no Bible teaching there, nor does
Conscience persuade him that he is trying to
kill a fellow creature when he is merely
improving his physique in a khaki uni-
form. There are limits to freedom of con-
science. No young wowser, genuine
or spurious, can be permitted to confuse
target practice with wilful murder. He can
call war wilful murder, and claim the right
to be a non-combatant and an independent
shirker rather than have his head blown
off, but he can’t claim the right to dodge the
physical training that will help to make a
man of him should he ever want to act
accordingly. The Conscience plea has been
blown out anyhow. Besides, no boy can
put his manhood’s conscience in pawn, as it
were. Five years hence he may be a devil
of a warrior at heart, and then how would
he like to have been a licensed drill-shirker
for humanity’s sake? All boys are made to
do lots of things they conscientiously abhor,
including arithmetic and washing their ears.
♦
A lamentation rises again about the silting
up of the hopeless harbor of Newcastle
(N.S.W.). Every harbor which is simply
the mouth of a big river silts up. The river
brings down thousands of tons of debris, and
when the current, going out with the debris
in its mouth, meets the tide coming in, with
the sand and mud in its hair, the ruins drop
and form a bar. Sydney is a good harbor
because, though rivers flow into it, they are-
so small that they don’t carry much silt.
Melbourne is a very medium harbor because
the Yarra and the Saltwater are bigger than
the. Parramatta and the Lane Cove and the
Tank Stream. Newcastle, the Clarence, the
Bellinger and such-like places are hopeless.
So are Brisbane, Perth, Rockhampton, etc.
So, in a less degree, is the Clyde (Scotland)
for Glasgow, despite the incredible sums
spent on it, has to accommodate its biggest
vessels at Greenock. So would London be, but
for the fact that London is the biggest city
in the world, and is able to pour out gold by
the ton to keep its very inferior waterway
from going wholly to perdition. Australia’s
hope lies in the founding of cities on the
big, reliable, deep-water harbors that have
no silt-laden rivers flowing into them. By a
curious fatality these places are unanimously
neglected.
His Heritage.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now, any person has a right to leave off work at
his own expense and risk, whenever he feels that
way. But in N.S.W. nobody seems to do anything
quite at his own expense. Under an utterly rotten
regime, the State has got to the point of borrowing
about £8,000,000 per annum abroad, and leaving the
stupendous bill to the kid, with nothing to show for it
as yet save a great increase of taxation and a griev-
ously diminished net revenue from the business
undertakings of the country.—Bulletin 14/5/’l4.
Bowed with the weight of Interest he stands,
Or leans, against an old, ant-eaten post;
The Heir of all the Ages—in his hands
The tough gohanna he intends to roast,
Perhaps—if he can find a piece of wood,
Or fragment of the coal that once was raised
In his great, empty Land and sent away
In bygone years, past Interest to pay!
His great-great-grandfather—a feckless ass —
Burned down the woods and forests, long
ago!
Perchance the lad might cook his meal by gas,
But, then, for gas, coal is required ; and so
He glares about him, like an angry mule
Itching to kick the living or the dead,
Reduced to tough gohanna and no fuel,
While swarms of old loans circle round his
head;
He wears most ancient clothes; they have
come down
To him from his ridiculous Old Man!
The remnants of his great-grandmother’s
gown—
An heiress of the old Importing Clan —
Serve as a cloak to shield him when it rains,
Which isn’t often, now the trees are gone!
And his old hat —as one may plainly see —
Is of the shape of Nineteen-Twenty-Three!
Pausing to spit in vicious '•tyle, he scowls
Across the bare, brown earth, towards the
stones
Where, mournfully, a very thin dog howls
Among the graves of Robinson and Jones,
And Murphy, and the rest of his forebears ;
And bitter curses tremble on his lip... . .
“My Gawd !.. .. the blanky blighters, their
blank cares!....
An ’ let ’em rot!....it gives me the fair
pip !....
“They ’ad the loans, and I ’ave got ther
Bill.. ..
They ’ad the spree, and I ’ave got the
’ead !. ...
By cripes, I’d like to go across an’ kill
The bloomin’ corpses —0n1y... > they are
dead !.. . .
Five ’undred millions!.... all me coal and
w00d....
And them old, rusty rails is all to show;
With tumble-down old buildings everywhere,
And ’caps of rubbish.. . .dammit, is it fair?
“Their fathers made the Land a decent
place....
They didn’t leave ’em old tin-cans an’
bones!...:.
They didn’t boom an’ borrow to disgrace,
Or leave ’em nothin’ but long-busted loans;
But what ’ave they left Me? The empty
shell
Of what should be a flourishin’, fair Land...
All taxes an’ no tucker —Oh. it’s Ildll!”....
He dropped the tough gohanna from his
hand.
N.S.W.
MONTY PEET.


Hotel Steyne,
Manly Beach, N.S.W.
Facing the Pacific Ocean.
THE BRIGHTON OF AUSTRALIA.
SURF-BATHING RIGHT IN
FRONT OF THE HOTEL.
Excellent Golf Links in Close Proximity.
Hot Salt Water Baths Adjacent.
TERMS —From 11/6 Day;
£3 10s. Week.
ACCORDEONS
THE
“DUDLEY” Accordeons
Famous for full, sonorous tone and
excellence of design and finish.
Ebonised Mouldings; Nickel Corner
Protectors; Button Keys of Mother of
Pear] ; Finest Steel Reeds; 10-fold
Double Bellows, with Brass Corner
Protectors; Leather Handles; com-
plete in box.
WONDERFUL VALUE.
MODEL A, 10 x 51 in., 2 stops, 10
keys, 2 rows of reeds, and 2 basses,
Post Free’ 35/-
THIS SHOULD SUIT YOU.
MODEL B, 10 x 6 in., 3 stops, 10 keys,
3 rows of reeds, and 2 basses. Post
Free 45 / -
Write for Lists of Instruments.
A. P. SYKES,
272 LITTLE COLLINS ST MELBOURNE.
IF BILIOUS OR CONSTIPATED TIKE
"CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Harmless “fruit” laxative cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels without
griping or discomfort.
An acid stomach, clogged with fermenting,
ill-digested food, means that the liver is not
doing its duty. Nature provided ripe fruit
juices to keep the liver up to its work.
“California Syrup of Figs” is a deliciously
refreshing fruit laxative which is always in
season. You can keep it at hand, and it
will be an unfailing friend whenever the
tongue is coated, bowels sluggish, breath
foul, throat dry or sore, stomach full of
wind, and head hot and aching. You can
take a dose whenever it is needed, as safely
as you could eat fresh fruit. Ih a short
while you will feel the benefit. The bow e s
will be gently relieved, and the stomach
cleansed and sweetened, as the undigeste
food is moved on and got rid of. The tongue
will' grow clean again and the head will be
cooled and cleared. There is no mistaking
the beneficial effects of “California
of Figs.” Directions are with it for adults
and children of all ages. This pleasant
laxative is good for all, and cannot possibly
harm even the most delicate, but you mus
ask for “California Syrup of Figs, and loo*
for the name and trade mark of the Cali-
fornia Fig. Syrup Co. ..All leading chemists
sell “California Syrup of Figs. I/I2 and
1/9 per bottle.
About Sea Law.
“Sea Lawyer” writes: —
The High Court has given a majority decision in
a marine appeal which, if it stands, should make
even Jocook hurry along with legislative relief. The
Adelaide S.S. Co. amasses much money by careering
round the Australian coast with coals from New-
castle. A few months back the co. found that its
own tonnage was not sufficient to move the fuel
quick enough, so it chartered a small fleet of
steamers from British owners and put them on the
run. By law, these tramp steamers became liable
to local conditions as soon as they started on the
Australian coast. No one disputes this. But when
the engineers asked why overtime due was not
forthcoming the co. blandly referred them to the
“owners” in Glasgow. The first magistrate to adju-
dicate on the argument found against the co., but
that corporation successfully appealed to the N.S.W.
Supreme Court. The horse-tails held that the co.,
by terms of its charter, did not assume owner's
responsibility, and though it was shown that this
fact was not known to the crew, who signed on
with the Adelaide Co.’s captain under the Adelaide
Co.’s flag, the Court was of the opinion that this
was the crew’s funeral. The High Court, by a three
to two vote, has upheld the Court below. The
majority of the Bench did not consider the men
were' entitled to relief, owing to the fact that the
master who signed the articles (a servant of the
Adelaide Co.) did so at the risk of the owners of
the ship and not, as the men naturally believed, on
behalf of his employers, the local company. Rich,
J., and Isaacs, J., in a minority judgment, made an
eloquent appeal for justice for the plaintiffs.
Said Isaacs: —
“The Adelaide Company placed its house-flag on
the ship, the men working the overtime were carry-
ing the Adelaide Company’s cargoes and earning their
profits, wearing their uniform, and obeying their
selected captain. The Adelaide Company furnished
their own time-sheets, all the accounts for wages
were made out on the Adelaide Company’s papers, it
paid some overtime upon them, and got the men’s
receipts upon them. But subsequently, and after
allowing the men to continue working overtime
without cautioning them against looking to the com-
pany for payment, they denied all liability, though
their representative, in the box, admitted that his
company had taken out the articles signed by the
men; and although the company had undertaken by
the charter party to pay the overtime.”
The minority judgment wound up with this appeal
to Parliament: “We consider the circumstances strik-
ing enough to call the attention of the Legislature
to provide that agreements, with a class of men so
in need of safeguards, shall be made so as to prevent
these, difficulties. It is astounding that articles
under which men labor and risk life and limb
should not disclose for whom the captain is acting.
The principal should always be distinctly named.
Such a misfortune as this should not be capable of
repetition. The appeal should be allowed.” Their
Honors could have added that once it is recognised
that the chartering of vessels to run on the coast
allows loopholes to dodge the requirements of the
Commonwealth law, the growing practice of charter-
ing such vessels will increase. Only last month the
Interstate Steamship Co. put on three chartered ves-
sels in the Newcastle-Port Pirie (S.A.) ore trade,
one of them a foreigner. So far as I am aware
there are not any complaints to make of the fore-
going nature against this co. But the chartering
business is increasing. Hence the timely warning
of Justices Isaacs and Rich.
“Bobstay’s” hail: —
The High Court has, as expected, refused to allow
the claim under the Seaman’s Compensation Act of
a seaman injured on the Union S.S. Co.’s Moana
while outward bound from San Francisco to Sydney.
This Act applies exclusively to Australian shipping ;
but, as on voyages to Hobart from the mainland and
to Fremantle from the Eastern States, ships traverse
the high seas and pass beyond the jurisdiction of
the Court, clause 5 of the Act was framed to meet
such cases. This provides that the Act shall apply
to the voyage of any steamer whose ports of clear-
ance and destination are within the Commonwealth.
In this case it was necessary to prove that the
Moana was on such a voyage, hence counsel, for the
plaintiff argued that the vessel was bound from
Sydney to Sydney via ’Frisco. This was a steep
proposition. An attempt was made by the defence
to upset the whole Act as ultra vires, but the High
Court refused to give an opinion, on the ground that
the present case received its quietus on a simpler
point. The validity of the Act itself will, therefore,
be available as another bean-feast for Costs. Mean-
while there is no compensation for the maimed
seajpan, and to meet the case the allied maritime
unidns (Guild, engineers, seamen, cooks and stew-
ards) have drafted a clause to be inserted in oversea
articles admitting claims under the Compensation
Act. The cos. may agree to the clause. Indeed, it
seems strange that the Union Co. should have re-
sisted this case. The whole principle of compensation
is admitted and allowed for by insurance. To extend
its provisions to the occasional accident on the
comparatively few oversea voyages doesn’t seem out
of the way. Further, as the owners paid their costs
they didn’t save anything on the case in point, and
can only maintain their right to refuse as a prin-
ciple after a bitter fight. It rather looks as if the
real intention was a try-on to upset the Act as a
whole.
Artist W. Lister Lister will exhibit a
collection of bis paintings at Anthony Hor-
dern’s art gallery (Sydney) at the end of
tlje month.
A witness—Norman Keysor, of Metters,
Limited, of Sydney—told the inter-State
Commission on Monday that stoves which,
are made in Freetrade England, and sold to
retail dealers in Freetrade England at 245.'
9d. each, are sent out to Protectionist Aus-
tralia and sold to Australian dealers at 18s.
4d. This testimony creates an impression
that perhaps living isn’t so cheap in a Free-
trade countrv as Freetraders allege.
Rev. Dr. Headlam, who has come to Aus-
tralia to attest the credibility of miracles,
made a satisfactory beginning in Melbourne
by asserting that miracles are, in all pro-
bability, manifestations of natural laws
which, at present, we do not understand. So
that Rev. Headlam encourages us to believe
in miracles by solemnly declaring the pro-
bability that they aren’t anv such thing.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Forty Thieves. ;j
Palace “The Burglar and the Lady.
Adelpiii “Beggar Girls Wedding.
Little Theatre “Fanny’s First Play.
Tivoli Mclnto.-h s Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville.
Lyceum. Spencer s Pictures.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures.
Imperial Salon De Luxe Dancing.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Come Over Here.”
King’s “Face at the Window.
Koyai “Never Say Die.”
Princess’s “The Rosary.”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace..:, West’s Pictures.
Olympia.., Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
Bijou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville.
♦
Allen Doone unloaded his new play, The
Burglar and the Lady,” before, a Sydney
Palace audience on Saturday night. It is
unlikely to raise undue enthusiasm either
amongst those who profess to be enraptured
with his Irish comedies and characterisa-
tions or amongst those who wish that
they, and he, were buried in lime.
It is a double-headed rehash of the
Raffles-Sherlock Holmes stories, with E. W.
Hornung’s posing burglar laying it over
Conan Doyle’s blathering detective. .There
is room for some smart skit work if the
piece was skilfully handled by the author,
but he left out all the joy in order not to
crowd the rest of the goods —the said goods
being the usual high-toned bellowdramatic
impossible “situations” which are plunked
in amidst solemnity and spot lights. And, of
course, Doone cannot refrain from singing.
As Raffles, the housebreaker, he concludes a
job by warbling an Irish song. Onslow
Edgeworth, as Sherlock Holmes, doesn’t, do
the tango with Edna Keeley, the lady into
whose bedroom Raffles hurls himself to tell
her the story of his misspent life, although
the tango would improve both his part and
Doyle’s creation. Still, “The Burglar and
the Lady” is not all fault, and some, of it
rises up and is a green hill of beauty in the
middle of the great plain of commonplace.
Doone’s personality soaks in as usual, and
where the faithful are gathered together
Doone can do no wrong.
The pantomime is still going strong at
Her Majesty’s., Sydney, despite the fact that
it has long since qualified for the post of
Oldest Inhabitant locally, in a theatrical
manner of speaking. Youth, grace, beauty,
pleasing legs, superb scenery, glad eyes, de-
lighted teeth, and jokes of every imaginable
age and vintage are rife; and every sort of
melody is audible on the premises, barring
that of The Bird. This gratifying state of
things may be expected to continue well into
next month.
There’s so little room for expansion in
Ada Reeve’s Sydney reputation that The
Bulletin would have to clip out whole
pages from Webster and quote entire
"THE BURGLAR AND THE LADY,"
AT SYDNEY PALACE.
The burglar (Allan Doone) and the parson
are rivals for the hand of the fair one in the
bedroom scene.
articles from the “Encyclopaedia of Boosts
for Theatrical Press Agents” if it wanted
to be responsible for any increase therein.
Time and space being limited, it contents
itself with remarking that her turn on Mon-
day night, which was sandwiched in be-
tween a most enthusiastic reception and a
hundredweight or two of flowers, was. the
brightest thing the Tivoli has got hold of
since the Oldest Inhabitant first began to
take an interest in things. The rest of the
programme includes Miss Vivien Talleur
and Fred Reade, dancers and tangoists;
Talleur Andrews, baritone; Russell Carr,
purveyor of ventriloquism and old jokes;
and Gilday and Fox, Hebrew impersonators.
Anyone who has had electric light or the
telephone put into his house will be reminded
of the disarrangement of his home-life by
the elaborate preparations necessary for the
installation of that extremely complicated
device for detecting criminals, the dicto-
graph. In “The Argyle Case,” now running
at Sydney Criterion, it is necessary for the
owner of the criminal’s den to have her bag,
containing all the keys of the house, stolen
from her; for all the denizens of the den to
be absent for hours while the dictograph
operators lay the wires; for the same deni-
zens to be so blind as not to see the wires;
and for the detective to secure, a convenient
attic next door without attracting the atten-
tion of the criminals, before even a fact of
minor importance is discovered. Another of
the improbabilities of this melodrama is the
clumsy device by which Ashe Kayton takes
a woman’s finger-prints. He gives her an
inky pen with which to write her name, and
when, by a very large improbability, she
manages to ink the tips of every finger on
that hand, she innocently submits while he
“THE BURGLAR AMD THE LADY.”
Sherlock Holmes (O. Edgeworth) discovers by
deduction that a burglar is in the heroine's
bedroom.
dries her finger-tips separately on a piece of
blotting paper. With a great show of mod-
ern detective methods “The Argyle Case” re-
solves itself into a mere melodrama. But
the construction of the play is exceedingly
clever in that it keeps the audience guessing
up to the last curtain-fall.
At time of writing “The Mayor of Tokio”
is advertised to depart from the Adelphi
(Sydney) on Wednesday night. Thursday
night sees the commencement of “The Beggar
Girl’s Wedding,” the bellowdrama which Miss
Rosemary Rees, of M.L., advertised by her
recent unsuccessful legal action in London.
sj: * *
“Sealed Orders” w T ill be swept out of Syd-
ney Royal on Monday next. Harry Lauder
and co. "make a start in the vacated William-
son theatre on Wednesday (28th.), and the
Tait management is now trying to scare the
public to death with disconnected advt.-shrieks
of “What happened to the man who didn’t
book to hear Harry Lauder?” Apparently
lie arrived late, found the house full, went
mad in the vestibule, and gibbered in Scotch
or brose or kilts at the person in the pay-
box. It seems too heavy a price for not
booking for Lauder. The reader is hereby
advised to be a man and get it over.
* ■
In Shaw’s forthcoming publication of his
latest batch of plays he is said to refer to
‘-‘Fanny’s First Play,” now being brilliantly
produced at the Little Theatre (Sydney)
by Hugh Buckler, as a pot-boiler. The audi-
ences who have seen that play—the revival
is to be a brief one —will regret that Shaw
hasn’t written more pot-boilers. It may
even be said that one of the greatest trage-
dies in the modern drama is the fact that
Fanny hasn’t written another play.
;|c
Audiences composed of flappers who yearn
to. lead a better life, school-marms, ancient
immigrants who remembered Ellen Terry
when she was an actress, aspiring and earn-
est members of Y.M.C.A. debating societies,
honorary vice-presidents of Shakspeare
societies, and aged individuals with Noncon-
formist teeth who wouldn’t be seen in a
theatre or look upon an actress until she
was too old to act, stolidly sat out the three
discourses given in Sydney Town Hall by
Ellen Terry, upon the heroines of Shaks-
peare. The feeling of this critic, hardened
by many a melodrama, was one of sadness,
lie had seen Ellen Terry at the height of her
incomparable powers, but that memory was
rudely shattered by this faint echo of the
leading actress of the English stage. The
lecture, occupying only one hour, seemed
too great a task on the actress’s strength.
On Saturday evening she pathetically con-
fessed, “I’m short of breath to-night.” There
was an uneasy feeling of compassion for a
lady holding so great a name who presented
herself in public under so great a handicap.
In her heyday Ellen Terry was unable to
visit Australia. It is paying both the Com-
monwealth and herself a poor compliment 10
come here now. All the audience got of her
genius were a few brief glimpses of her
dramatic gestures and an echo of her magni-
ficent voice. But the lecturer dared not stray
from her printed notes; and the impression
conveyed was that even the few dramatic
illustrations she gave were liable at any
moment to break down.
v v '!>
The usual moving-picture budget- for
Sydney:—
Crystal Palace :—“A Good Little Devil”—sooott.
of fairy story, wherein Mary Pickford takes a leading
hand.
Lyric:—More Devil. “The Green-eyed Devil,’
wherein cash, love, booze and jealousy are combined
to good effect.
Spencer’s Lyceum:—“London by Day and Night”
for to-night and to-morrow night only.
West's Olympia:—“The Great Fire of London’
(20th century edition).
* * *
Anybody who hasn’t been to the Imperial
Dancing Salon (at the foot of William-
street, Sydney) is hereby earnestly _ re-
quested to do so as immediately as possible.
After that everybody will know the address
of Fashion’s latest craze and just how allur-
ing it may be. Then Michael Joseph will
cease from troubling about a par. concerning
the show every week, and the wicked will
be at anchor in the pub, instead of having
to dash forth and foam all over the
premises.
sis sis * sis
The National Amphitheatre (Sydney)
goes on its way rejoicing in these days of
bulging audiences and gratifying applause —
sure sign that the goods on trade are the
identical thing for the money. It is a well-
varied programme this week —practically all
American —and including Foster, La Mont
and Foster, of the iron-jaw persuasion;
Straub Sisters, a gay pair; the Carpos
brothers, equilibrists; a reappearance of
the Five Musical Lassies, of favored repu-
tation ; and the Banzai troupe of athletes.
There are others ; but that lot is good enough
to go on with till next Thursday.
** * *
“The Education of Mr. Surrage” (Allan
Monkhouse), given its first Australian ren-
dering by the Repertory Theatre in Ade-
laide, is one of the light plays that might
quite well be a commercial success on the
ordinary stage. Surrage’s young folks
have got into an artistic set, and bring three
of their new friends down for a week-end.
Father, being practical and quite inartistic,
won’t like them, nor they him, and pre-
liminary apologies are exchanged all round.
But the decks are soon cleared for action.
There are only two characters that matter.
These are the simple but intelligent Surrage,
and Vallance, a sort of Bernard Shaw among
painters, but without any moral sense at
all. He steals £ll left lying about, and then
has the nerve to borrow two sovereigns from
his host. There is a delightful comedy scene
between Surrage and his butler. “Excuse
me, sir, but I found these 13 sovereigns when
brushing Mr. Vallance’s clothes.” “Well?”
“Well, sir, I was wondering where he got
the other two.” “Do you suggest that he
stole the 11?” “Well, sir, he suggested, that
I did.” “Why should he not have had it all
with him when he came?” “Well, sir, he
tried to borrow a pound from me just after
he arrived!” The dialogue has a directness
and force quite unusual, the consistently
short sentences having almost the effect of
epigram. The young people find the visit a
“nightmare.” “You can’t be brilliant and
comfortable,” says one of them in packing
the guests off. But Father does not agree.
He is being Educated, and has enjoyed the
experience immensely. “There seems to be
something in this Art business,” he *says.
“We’ll get out of this quiet place and back
to London and see more of it.” There the
play might quite well end, but Monkhouse
has added a fourth act —sheer Shaw, even
to being in a picture-gallery, like the last
act of “The Doctor’s Dilemma.” It merely
shows Surrage financing Vallance, and bully-
ing him into being a fairly respectable mem-
ber of society. The acting of James Ander-
son and Whittle as the two men was fine,
and the other parts were more than ade-
quately filled.
* # * Hi
Crotton and Kremka, a first-in-Australia
turn at Adelaide King’s, are a pleasant but
not startling athletic pair. His best work
is supporting on one upright arm a frame
on which she does a horizontal-bar turn;
also he handles her effectively. as a dumb-
bell. Valentine, brilliant on a bicycle, shows
how it is possible to be funny with-
out an absurd make-up. The bustling
Valerio Six do unusual things on a
wire, and Bonita some neat ones with
a gun. At . the Tivoli, Sam Stern, a new-
comer, does some fairly good dialect work,
the Yiddisher type being easily his best; and
Tucker still makes weird noises on his fiddle,
his strong personality persuading the house


Business Notices.
ARCHER AND CO., 24 Bond Street,
have TRUST MONEYS TO LEND
in large and small sums, on Interests under
Wills and in Intestate Estates, and on
Freehold Mortgage. Lowest rates of interest.
The (we Hand
Bound Volume,
New Series, No. 1
—lncluding Colored Covers-
IS NOW READY.
Orders for same will be treated
in order of priority.
PRlCE.—Bound Volume ~ 7/6
Binding Covers, 2/Q
To thoroughly enjoy the week-end trip or to kill
the monotony of a voyage or a railway journey it
is only necessary to arm one’s self with a copy of
“A Journalist and Two Bears,” the book of the
year. This collection of tales and verse from the
pen of James Edmond has the infinite variety that
appeals to all men, and makes the world a much
better place to travel or week-end in. If your book-
seller has not got it send 13 penny stamps to the
publishers, The Platypus Press, 117 Bathurst Street,
Sydney, and the book will be sent by return post.*
Keep it
On Hand
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS.
to accept whatever he gives it. Julius
Knight has had a good week at the Royal.
His Napoleon is not the less effective for
being somewhat mellowed by time, and his
old admirers are rallying round for this
final season. Irene Browne prefers the part
of Marie Louise, and this gives Irby Mar-
shall a big chance as Josephine. Mounting
excellent. Harry Lauder has arrived, and
been “proceshed” through the streets to his
hotel, and the highly successful “Blind
Fair” at the Exhibition has closed down its
pageants and other evening shows to make
room for him there. The only remarkable
thing in sight in the Film world is that the
Empire seriously advertises, as its main at-
traction, “a play that will make you weep.”
Women are hurrying to see it.
** * *
Given the one touch of nature which
makes the whole world grin, “Never Say
Die” would he a legitimately humorous
comedy. Lacking, a suggestion of realism
to begin with, the trifle in three acts is just
a nippy, amusing farce, and its nights at
Melbourne Royal will be many. In Sydney
they were many. Australia has got into the
way of laughing uproariously at the quick,
slick farces that Niblo plays, fitted with
dialogue wherein smart, rough repartee
bears exactly the same relation to wittiness
that ragtime melody bears to music. “Never
Say Die” has the spirit of ragtime in its
Composition. The story of the bachelor
millionaire who marries a girl with no idea
of living to become her husband is not
humorous, as “The Marriage of Kitty” was,
or naturally droll like the “Duke of Killie-
crankie,” of old. But it is ridiculously
funny, except when the incredible hero
lapses into hollow sentimentality, and it is
better understood by most people than the
brilliant, higher-toned comedies aforemen-
tioned, or the gloriously droll humors of
“The Dictator,” which William Collier
played to empty seats at Her Majesty’s.
William Collier is part author of “Never
Say Die.” One can almost hear him draw-
ing upon his recollections of “The Dictator”
and other comedies for ideas, and see him
suggesting situations and gags to his literary
collaborateur.
* * * *
The dialogue makes no attempt to explain
how Dionysius Woodbury, the lonely, friend-
less young millionaire who jokes at his
approaching decease, and thoughtfully
arranges that his acquaintances shall benefit
by it, could possibly have come to be a
malade imaginaire. A light-minded hypo-
chondriac chasing his fat-headed medical
advisers to, the house of somebody he doesn’t
know in order that they look at his
tongue and pronounce his doom, is an in-
explicable; person, therefore the authors of
him wisely left his absurdity to speak for
itself. And because the character Niblo plays
is a ridiculous creature of fiction all
the characters who profess to take his sick-
ness seriously would be equally unconvinc-
AT THE HOLMAN MATINEE
(SYDNEY ROYAL).
William Holman as Iago (“Othello") and
Neville May man as the Banished Duke (“As
You Like It").
ing, even though they approached natural-
ness in discussing their own affairs. As a
matter of fact, the five or six people who
come to light before Niblo appears on the
scene are unconvincing in themselves, and
the other members of the co. (barring Syd-
ney Stirling as the valet) are as unreal as
the picture of the millionaire’s kitchen sit-
ting-room, where the chef and the valet
wrangle together and their employer enter-
tains his lady friends in an odor of domestic
cookery. The appointments of Woodbury’s
domicile exceed the limit of farcical comedy
license. He steps into the kitchen from his
bedroom and walks up to the grill to pick
his own sausage for breakfast.
Under liis entirely false conditions Niblo
is the same pleasing personality as usual,
with a certain unaffected stiffness of man-
ner which he presumably acquired in the
Collier school of art. He gets all the fat
of the fun and the cream of the repartee, and
“the rosary;-'
AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S.
Walter Fenner as Kenward
Wright, the bad 'tin.
Paul Byron as the
lovesick Charley.
his by-play and facial expressions are admir-
able as before. Stirling scores as the valet,
Edwin Lester makes a good sketch of a
conventional old dodderer addicted to taking
his antique parents to the palais de danse,
and Miss Cohan achieves striking successes
with two costumes, one of them being charm-
ing beyond the dreams of tango tea-drinkers.
For the rest, the performance is poor. Maur-
ice Dudley as the chef falls far below his
normal level, Gertie Cremer is obtrusively
unboylike as the tiresome Buster, who is
dragged into the entertainment for the sake
of some cheap American jokes about a dawg,
and the giddy lady in green (Miss Linden),
whom Niblo 'has selected for his co-respon-
dent, is crude by comparison with even the
noisy young artist and the loud private
detective.
ij: :'c
“The Worst Woman” will have done her
dash at Melbourne King’s on Friday this
week, and “The Face at the Window” will
frighten her off the premises. The advt.
states that the revival of “The Face” on
Saturday is by special request of thousands.
This is one of the few managerial allega-
tions which The Bulletin can almost
believe. A new generation has come along
since the last time the awfullest thing in
bellowdrama was perpetrated in Melbourne,
and the tradition of the good old galvanised
corpse retains much of its earlier freshness.
** * *
One more week of “Come Over Here” will
end thal; protracted plank-walk at Her
Majesty’s (Melbourne). New features are
supplementing the new fashions of the
revue, and its last nights are doing as well
as can be expected. “Sealed Orders” is
now said to be the drama that will follow
the revue. Julius Knight in “A Royal
Divorce” was previously threatened, but the
latest announcement is accepted as final.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
At Melbourne Tivoli the departure of Ada
Reeve cleared the way for the arrival of the
musical Elliott Savonas, the Six Camerons
and the Gill tangoists on Monday this week.
The value of those new “turns” will be duly
appraised in next issue. The programme
otherwise consists mainly of Fields, the
silent juggler, who introduces a lot of ex-
pressive fooling into his silence; the Two
White Bobs, who “rag” each in turn to the
other Bobs piano accompaniment or “rag”
together, and are less boisterous than two
niggahs doing the same thing; also Farr and
Farland. The dualogue of these two char-
acter-actors has humor in it, and the present
scribe remembered them with gladness whilst
he was sighing for the tractability of the
trained leopards that Mrs. Yallecita was
exhibiting in a cage. The leopards would
be less out of place in a circus.
** * *
Leonard ‘ Borwick’s soothing method of
piano-playing appealed to Melbourne’s
musical heart some two or three years ago,
and his recent recitals at the Town Hall
have testified to the power of the name he
made for himself when he first came to
Australia for his health’s sake. Last Satur-
day the Town Hall was packed to the organ
gallery, therefore two extra appearances of
the “Poet Pianist” have been fixed for this
week. Instrumental music-making promises
to. be a lucrative business in Melbourne this
winter, whenever the star shines up to ex-
pectations. The Borwick boom argues a
good time coming for Harold Bauer, due at
the Auditorium on June 16. Meanwhile
Mischa Elman, the violinist, will give four
concerts at the Audi. Eva Gautier and a
symphony orchestra of 70 souls are to sup-
port the mighty Mischa. who comes under
contract with George Musgrove. •
* * * *
Alexander Watson makes his positively
last appearance in Melbourne next Satur-
day. Hitherto that gaunt, impressive ex-
ponent of Shakspeare, Dickens and the poets
has lifted up his voice at the Athenaeum,
but his final night will be spent at the
Auditorium, which offers ample accommoda-
tion for all the money that has been turned
away from the hall across the road.
‘‘The Fight for the Great Black Diamond”
was the main sensation at Spencer’s (Mel-
bourne) on Saturday, and showed the vast
and unprofitable lengths to which some
people will go to separate a gentleman from
his lawful property. “Italian Love,” de-
scribed as a drama, was mostly comedy—
the comedy of raw and untutored Dagoes
scrapping fiercely with their mouths over
the usual piece of muslin. “A Deal in Real
Estate” demonstrated that there is a moral
code which governs even the allotment
business. It may. be described as a land-
agent’s tract.
There are no original touches about the
tank act of Troutt and his Mermaid at Mel-
bourne Bijou, though both artists show
that they haven’t taken their names in vain.
Cunningham and Rose introduce a song and
cross-talk turn laden with much unintelli-
gible riot; while the Franco Midgets furnish
some conjuring business roughly embroidered
with conversation. Also present are Cap-
tain Brunswick and Co., expert lassoists
and skilful gunmen; Leonard Nelson, the
proud creator of “Mr. Booze” ; and George
Rowley, a Yankee wooden mat dancer of
high degree.
That an image is more effective than
imagery in the process of converting a pro-
fessed heathen is still the main lesson to be
derived from “The Rosary,” now running to
fair business at Melbourne Princess’s. All
Father Kelly’s pious blarney cannot lure
the infidel hero to the stool of repentance,
but when he .is confronted with a statue of
The Redeemer at a critical moment, his
atheism commences to fade, and he is ready
to resume the long disused habit of going to
mass. No such method is necessary to bring
the wicked Kenward Wright to a peni-
tential frame of mind, however. When the
bright light streams from Heaven and his
Reverence informs him that the game is up,
he sprawls in the dirt and howls for the
solid comforts of religion, to the imminent
ruin of his voice and the possible creasing of
his perfect pants. It may be mentioned cas-
ually that Kenward plays the home-wrecker
in a wonderful series of blameless trousers.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Moana”: As evidence of how the picture craze
rageth in Maoriland, Wellington, with a population
of about 60,000, supports eight permanent picture
shows, five of which are continuous exhibitions from
11 a.m. to 11 p.m. At the present time three new
film theatres are being rushed up, so the windy citv
will shortly have its choice of flicker supplied by
11 shows, seven of which will be continuous.
The Ad Club of Melbourne save a little dinner last
week to George Patterson, a bright young writer ot
advts. for the local firm of McPherson’s Propty Lun.
He was oif to America, via London, to try his luck
in that larger field of commercial endeavor. George
Patterson and his two pretty sisters are the offspring
of the late actor Patterson, who did a lot of stage
management for the original Williamson firm in the
long ago. Their mother was a step-daughter of G. H.
Rogers, the comedian whose name lives in .Melbourne s
earliest stage annals. " .
From London: The theatrical world here has a
great regard for Holy Week. Even Drury Lane closed
for Good Thursday as well as Friday, and half a
dozen of the best —and best-paying—houses shut up
for the whole week. The vetejan G. R. Sims has
engineered a boom of his 30-odd-year-old play, “The
Lights o’ London.” It has been revived on the stage,
is being filmed for early production that way, and the
snippet paper Answers is about to give the “story ’
of it as a serial. “Anna Karenina” lyis quite unex-
pectedly achieved a run of 150 nighte, and is still
going strong. A Russian dinner to Lydia Yavorska
has celebrated the success. Hugh Ward also has
been dined, at the Savoy, with Tasmanian Agent-
General McColl in the chair.
“The Wowser”: The phonograph Lauder is a lot
better than the stage Lauder. He can’t sing at all.
Also, he dwells too much on his jokes. Incidentally,
he doesn’t make any jokes. Moreover, [the rest of
this criticism was still sizzling when the paper went
to press],
“Spasmode,” writing in drink: Something too
much of this. I’m met at every turn by Hartmann
Just. Last night I had a nightmare of a Jack-in-
the-Box—Hartmann Just 1 He has become as weari-
some to me as “Tararaboomdeay.” Randolph
Churchill, apropos Sclater-Booth and Knatchbull-
Huguessen, declared that every man with a double-
barrelled name was a humbug (his own
name was Spencer-Churchill, so he should
have known). Far be it from me to say
that of Hartmann Just, who has a Great Mis-
sion. He has come, as Fourth Panjandrum in the
Colonial Office, to prepare a confidential report on
Australia’s anatomy, whether she is truly loyal to
the Empiali, or whether it is only a veneer. So he
is not to say anything, but only to look wise, like
Lord Burleigh in Sheridan's “Critic.” Sneer and
Dangle, at the rehearsal, ask: “Isn’t he going to say
anything?” Puff, the author, says: “How can he
speak with such tremendous cares of State upon his
shoulders?” Burleigh then shakes copious flour out
of his full-bottomed wig and makes his exit. Oh!
Hartmann Just! Are you the 99 just men who
needed no repentance? Or are you just a man with
a heart? Or what are you?
“Lud”: Ellen Alice Terry was born Feburary 27,
1848. Fourth daughter of two humble theatrical
performers. Her sisters were Kate, Florence and
Marion, all good actresses, and Kate was eminent.
There were three brothers. Ellen Terry acted chil-
dren’s parts at the Princess’s in 1856 and later.
She and her sister Kate emerged into particular
notice as young women at the Bristol Theatre. In
1863 she acted Desdemona to Montgomery’s Othello.
She retired from the stage in 1864, but returned in
1866. First acted with Irving in “The Taming of
the Shrew” at the Queen’s, under Labouehere, in
1867. Withdrew from the stage in 1868. Back in
1874. Particular success as Portia, with the Ban-
crofts, in 1875. Did well at the Court in “New Men
and Old Acres.” First played Olivia (“Vicar of
Wakefield”) in 1877 with Vezin. Her 24 years’ asso-
ciation with Irving began December, 1878. After
leaving him she managed the Imperial in 1903.
Altogether made nine American tours.
“0.K.”: Bathos is out-bathosed in “The Old
Bachelor,” a small set of verses which Jos. Blascheck
recites with about 10 times as much dramatic art as
the subject deserves. The 0.8. is a wealthy club-
dweller ; he feeds well and sleeps well apparently; is
popular on account of his readiness to oblige with a
loan ; plays a good hand at cards ; and usually backs
the winning gee-gee on the infrequent occasions when
he goes racing. But, oh! he is not happy! The
youthful members of the club never suspect him of
nursing a secret woe. They call him “a woman-
hater” because they do not know that he loved a
woman in the long ago. In a silent cemetery: lies
she who went before. Who paid for the tombstone?
A poor old bachelor, who keeps the grave so green
and on it puts a wreath in annual memory of one
at rest beneath —or rhyme to that effect. Who wears
a smile the while his heart is sore —or hides his
tears? The same old bachelor. Sentimental ladies
get a lump in the throat when Blascheck bites his
nether lip and thus betrays the deep abiding sorrow
of his luxurious lonely life at the club. In humorous
or maudlin pieces the ex-Melbournian is a good artist.
By an odd coincidence Alexander Watson was recit-
ing potted Shakspearian plays from memory at Mel-
Athenaeum Hall what time Ellen Terry, at the adja-
cent Town Hall, was revealing her utter forgetfulness
of the lines she has spoken hundreds of times in
Shakspearian performances. Granting that she is
older than theatrical records make her out to be,
Ellen’s inability to remember a dozen consecutive
words is very remarkable. Perhaps it is the result of
her having long been in a position to take things easy
and trust to the prompter to pull her through. She
could never in her younger days have practised system-
atic memory-culture. Watson is always refreshing
his recollection of lines by repeating them silently
to himself and mentally trying the effect of varied
intonations of certain passages. Ellen has neglected
her memory until now there is nothing to refresh.
She cannot see the lines of her old parts with her
mind’s eye any more than a blind woman can see
to read.
Why publish false representations of the age of
the dead? It is like putting rouge on a corpse.
The papers state that Nordica was 55 when she died,
whereas the sketchy accounts of her career suggest
that she couldn’t have been less than 63. Her appear-
ance on the platform made her out to be more than
60. But she was not too old to be an interesting
artist.
“S.T.S.”: As a practical journalist, I should like
further information about the capital city of
Balaria, where the “Balkan Princess” comes from. It
seems to be a place where you can buy jewellery, valu-
able enough to give spasms of delight and gratitude
to a sophisticated little cafe frequenter (who should
be a first-class judge of such things), with the pay
received for a single article of a series abusing the
Government; the kind of casual article that can be
written during supper at the said cafe. Anybody
know the address of the editor who bought the
article ?
Leonard Borwick, the “poet pianist,” as the Munich
Neueste Nachricten called him, who raised consider-
able dust in the musical circles of Sydney in 1911,
is now back in the Ma Capital. He is here to make
music, and they who wish to hear him will have but
brief opportunity, as his season is limited to five
recitals, commencing on the evening of June 1.
The home of the melody will be the Concordia Hall,
and the box plan will be located at Paling’s on
May 25.
In London they play “Never Say Die” with a cur-
tain-raiser, which was lately changed. The new
curtain-raiser deals with a loafer, a butcher, a
“copper” and a militant suffragette. The deadbeat
ostentatiously pinches a bit of meat, with a view to
spending the winter months in quod, but the suffra-
gette ' threatens to withdraw the family custom from
the butcher if he gives the poor man in charge of
the copper; so the meat-owner declines to prosecute.
Whereupon the rescued loafer biffs the “John” on
the jaw to make sure of gaol. The suffragette threat-
ens to send every militant in London to slap the
John’s face if he arrests his assailant, and when the
loafer hears that he would have to do hard labor for
biffing the police he is content to be rescued agpin.
Finally the suffragette promises to find him employ-
ment for 14 hours a day at carrying sandwich-boards,
and the degenerate is left shuddering.
TEARS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Harry Lauder sang to the prisoners at Pentridge
(Vic.) the other day. Now we learn that Miss
Geraldine Farrar sang “Home, Sweet Home” to the
assembled convicts of Georgia State Penitentiary at
Atlanta, and reduced her entire audience to tears.
—Maudlin news item.
The moaner or the yeller who would be a wealthy
feller ;
Or the “nightingale,” or “Queen of Song” to-day,
Who would mesmerise the papers, and the butchers
and the drapers,
By her agonising shrieks in Z or A,
Must regard it as a duty, quite apart from style or
beauty,
Or the “puff” which unobtrusively appears,
To select the proper season and go out and see a
prison,
And reduce its tame inhabitants to tears.
Tears!
It appears
That, in prison, no one ever laughs or cheers ;
For the “atmosphere” is doleful,
So the singing must be soulful
And be certain to bring listeners to —
Tears!
When the foreign lion comique, who relies upon his
stummick,
And his grin and howd to make the welkin ring,
Goes to see the local gaol he just blithers in a wail,
Or a vvarble, of the “Tadpole in the Spring” ;
Or pethaps he moans of “Mary” in the Pen-i-ten-ti-
ary,
Or some girl he never loved in other years;
And the convict who relied on something fit to split
his side on
Is immediately (in bulk) “reduced to tears.”
Tears !
The Governor fears
That comic songs exhilarate like beers!
Hence the measure of success is
The song that most distresses
The convicts, and “reduces them to —
Tears!”
So the nerve-shaking soprano, from Damascus or
Lugano,
Or from any foreign town you like to name,
Motors swiftly to the beano at the Government
Casino,
Quite intent upon “Ernani” or “Je t’aime!”
Or some gem from the immortals; but on entering
the portals
She’s confronted by a man who smirks and leers,
Whom she doesn’t know from Adam; and he says,
“Your pardon, Madam,
But "*1 hope your—ah—song will move our—er —
folk to tears.”
Tears!
(Interval for three beers.)
In consequence, her dismal audience hears
Something choice, like “Mother’s Grave,”
Or “The Mournful Ocean Wave,”
Which, promptly, moves the prisoners to tears—
Which causes even warders to shed tears!
Which makes the Governor sob,
And loathe salary and job;
While the pressman is led out
To the Cow and Waterspout—-
The place to which he naturally steers!
N.s.w.
CLARENCE O’HAGAN.


INDESTRUCTIBLE!
ENGLISH-MADE HORSEHIDE
SHOOTING BOOTS, AT
One pair of these Horsehide Boots, subjected to
tinuous rough wear, will last longer than three
of any ordinary make of boot.
con-
pairs
The illustration shows the style,
but no illustration could convey
any idea of the great strength and
durability they possess.
If STRONG boots are required,
these are THE boots. They have
round toes and waterproof, welted
s °les 37/6 pair
Sent Carriage Paid
Throughout Australasia.
3716
fg
ĝf
ƒg
fg
ĝf
g
DAVID JONES, LTD.,
Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
fWK?
wdtcfi
•
Vacuum Oil Co.
Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand
Society
PENFOLDS
WINES
The masked burglar season has started, and
consideiable fuss has been made over one or
two shrinking people who have been gagged
and bound. Yet the streets are full of
fashionable, lingering females who are bagged
and gowned, and nobody makes a fuss of
them —they are just shoved aside as if they
were Dirt and asked in a loud, rough voice
why they don’t look where they’re going?
It’s a rotten world this; it mostly resembles
an erratic penny-in-the-slot machine that
presents you with three dozen of something
you don’t want, while swallowing your coins
and preserving a cast-iron reticence on the
subject of the article you are just bursting
to extract from its mysteries and madden-
ing innards.
* * * *
Sydney is a place of curious habits. In
every city of the world which possesses muni-
cipal regulations and streets that are wide
enough to let two people pass, the order has
been, for a very long time, that the foot-
passenger should keep to the right. That is
the way in San Francisco and Chicago and
New York and London and Taris and Berlin
and Vienna and Tobolsk and Melbourne, and
it is even the command in Timbuctoo, now
that the ancient city has come under French
influences. In some places the rule is rigidly
enforced; thus in Berlin and Amsterdam the
policeman will speak to you as if you were
a naked heathen if you fall into disorder and
bump other travellers. On the other hand,
in Sydney, the rule has mostly been a dead
letter. Lately, by way of an hilarious jest,
the city of Sydney has burst foftli in a new
place. Its traffic is controlled sometimes by
the police, and sometimes by the City Coun-
cil. One authority bids the foot-fellow —as
the scornful Hindu cabby calls the man who
travels on his own extremities —to keep to
the right. Another bids him keep to the
left. Neither rule is enforced. The pedes-
trian keeps to the left-right and travels
according to the yes-no. If the new proposi-
tion is definitely adopted and enforced, Syd-
ney will become known as a place which, hav-
ing no city railway, or tube railway, or
overhead railway, or harbor bridge, and very
few wide streets, tried to strike out a new
path and advertisement for itself by com-
manding the visitor to bump along according
to a set of fresh principles.
ON THE QUI VIVE.
MR. B. : “I’ve just met your husband. He
said he was keeping a sharp look out for
you. ”
MRS. C. : "The wretch! What was she
like? ”
WHOSE RISK?
PATIENT: “But isn’t £50 a bit stiff for one operation?"
DOCTOR: " Yes, but think of the risk."
PATIENT : “But, hang it all, I take the risk, you don’t."
DOCTOR: “ That's questionable. If I kill you how about the body?"
To-day (Thursday, the 21st) is the day
chosen by the suffragettes of Britain (which
is mostly Hingland in this connection) for
their .invasion of Buckingham Palace, or
wherever King
George may be
denying them an
audience at the
time. The cap-
tains of the cause
will assemble their
army and march
to George’s domi-
cile, with the fixed
determination to
present their peti-
tion for equal poli-
tical rights with
the blokes who re-
fuse them admis-
sion. They have
been told that they
can’t bring their
Empire Day de-
monstration under
the august nose of
KepresentaUve Go-
vernment’s figure-
head, but,they have
sworn to show
mankind that noth-
ing is impossible
to Woman scorned.
The suffragettes,
according to rumor
at time of writing,
will sweep away
all obstacles, no
matter how many
of them may be
themselves swept
away during the
advance moment.
The police may
push and the sol-
diers may charge
the mob, and still
the suffragettes in
the rear ranks will
go to the fray.
On stepping stones
of their dead sis-
tern they will rise
to the occasion and break down the
Palace gates or climb over the garden
wall. They will swim to the steps
of the throne in blood if necessary,
carrying the petition in sections on their
backs. Heaven knows what horrors to-
morrow’s cablegrams may bring forth unless
terms of truce are arranged or the hearts
of the militants fail them when they are
up against the heaps of slain.
“Oliver Cromwell Jeames” writes deso-
lately from the pantry :
I was stung to the quick by “Martin Luther’s”
cruel, cruel remarks (B. 14/5/’l4). There is no such
person as the Princess Scarletina. I have examined
the Almanach de Gotha, and she is not there. My
religious adviser assures me that both the Searle-
tinas and the Diphtherias are unknown in Rome. He
is of the opinion that they are myths. He has
hinted kindly, and I gravely fear, that Martin is
jeering at me and my efforts to add to the meagre
stipend which I earn as second footman, by the
writing of informative little items about the nobility
and gentry. This is an old trick of his. He and I
(he was Martin Luther Heep, of Snuffle-on-the-
Booze, Little Blitliero, Devon, R.O. in those days)
first entered service together well-nigh quarter of a
century ago. He had been in the street-preaching
line, but the Elders of his sect de-frocked him, or
unhouselled him, or dishevelled him, or something,
for wearing high-heeled boots —a., practice which, as
your Religious Editor will remember, was deprecated
severely by both Wesley and Huss, and has also been
discountenanced by the Established Church —see Lord
Coleridge’s voluminous judgment in Reg. v. Canter-
bury (Archbishop of), as set forth in Stephens’
“Laws relating to the Clergy,” vol. 11. And so when
Martin entered the establishment of the late Jimmy
Tyson he was an embittered domestic. I was Tyson’s
valet at the time. I used To put the dust on his
clothes, and stamp on his hat, and make him up
generally for what was perhaps his most successful
metropolitan role —that of stark, strong, near-to-
nature bushman. Martin was Tyson’s Chief Stipendi-
ary Applauder or Hired Groveller —a good old English
office that is falling into desuetude locally under suc-
cessive Labor regimes, more’s the pity. However, the
way he used to sneer at us, of the Hall, was simply
dreadful. ,
When he wasn’t Sneering he was Denouncing.
Heavens, what a Denouncer Luther was! A typical
Englishman, he held firmly to the view that he alone
was Brave, Noble, Good and Pure. To be present
while he leant one elbow defiantly on a bar-counter;
balanced a beer-mug with the corresponding hand ; got
a strangle-hold on the neck of the nearest barmaid with
his unoccupied arm, and proceeded to give hideous
details about the habits of total strangers, was equiva-
lent, morally, to hearing a homily from the spirit
of dear old Mother Britannia herself.
The only thing Martin didn’t sneer at in those
days was money. Arrived in N. S. Wales, he
immediately became a sort of amateur mining ex-
pert. It was well said of him by good old Walter
Hall that he had a keener eye for a burst mine
than any other man in Australia. Hardly a day
passed but he would come home with one of these
ruinous propositions, and deposit it hopefully at
the feet of The Master, as we used to call Tyson.
The most appalling objurgations would convince
him presently that his scheme had not found favor
in The Master’s sight. But —loyal fellow that lie
was —he never lost his simple, hound-like devotion
for the great man. Even to this day, to hear him
speak of Tyson is like listening to some splendid
Jack Harkaway epic being read aloud in a bar, by
a Bilanderson super.
What mystifies me is that one with Martin
Luther’s god-like capacity for hero-worship should
be capable of heaping cruel aspersions and heartless
gibes on a humble fellow-menial like your inoffen-
sive Jeames. Why should he do it? Can no one
persuade him to give over? No more at present.
My heart is too full of grief.
MORNING MYSTERY: A SYDNEY IDYLL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The residents of a congested part of Green’s-road,
Paddington, were disturbed at an early hour this
morning bv sounds of breaking glass and the smash-
ing of wood. The information supplied by neighbors
was that a motor-car containing three or four people
arrived in front of a certain house. The occupants
of the car ran to the verandah and, using axes,
smashed the windows and the front door. Entering
the place they dragged a woman in night attire
from a room and drove off. Subsequently the woman
returned. The whole affair is a mystery.
—Sydney Son.
The mighty motor thundered down the early morning
street,
Its inmates howled and stamped, and raved and
cursed;
A mudguard smote the good policeman sleeping on
his beat,
And knocked him yards—it might have been re-
hearsed,
So accurately was it done. They flung the corpse
aside
And madly tore on their unlawful way,
What time the neighbors marvelled at their paralys-,
ing hide;
Saying to each other, in low, scandalised tones:
“Well, did you evert” “How extremely mys-
terious!” “It looks curious—but, of course,
it may be only their play.”
With shriek of brake and scream of gear, the vehicle
was stopped
Before the door of Number Thirty-six ;
Some sawed at the verandah-posts, while others dug
and chopped,
Or hammered at the window-panes with bricks.
The chauffeur battered in the walls, and set the
house alight,
And 6hot the immigrant domestic dead ;
Which caused the neighbors to suspect that all was
not quite right—
In fact, several openly hinted as much —even going
so far as to express the view that the chauffeur
was losing his head.
A baleful roar of triumph from the leader of the
gang
Denoted that the house had fallen in;
The devastation did not seem to cause the slightest
pang
To any of these blatant men of sin.
With axes waving in the breeze, and crowbars flow-
ing free,
They surged across the housemaid’s chill remains,
Announcing that they wanted Miss Minerva Ann
McVee:
At which intimation several of the lady-neighbors
shook their heads; breathed stertorously
through their nostrils; and said that they had
always suspected Minerva of being Hot Stuff,
and devoid both of moral ballast and brains.
A fusillade of joyous yells; the loosing-off of guns;
The hiss of rockets tearing through the skies;
the lighting of a bonfire of the size of many suns;
Three hearty cheers, and further frantic cries,
Informed the vast assemblage which was hovering
around,
Beyond the faintest shadow of a doubt,
That all was well, and Miss McVee had finally been
found,
Whereupon the neighbors turned to one another and
said: “Well, so far so good. But what do they
want with her ? Surely they can’t be going to
take her for a motor excursion, with no chap-
eron, and her only just Out.”
But here they erred. Regardless of Convention’s
first decree
The strangers towed Minerva to their car
(Her costume being naught beyond a flimsy robe de
nuit),
And ’mid a din that echoed near and far
They fled, as does the Bludhork when it hears the
Wheerwun call,
Nor took the slightest notice of the fact
That many yearned to know the inner meaning of
it all—
A matter which was clearly evidenced by the neigh-
bors’ persistent murmurs of, “The whole thing
is most mysterious!” “Dashtifican understand-
' It almost looks as though Minerva has
been Attacked.”
The splitting of the welkin by a further vocal storm
Suggested that the gang was coming back.
It was. And all identified Minerva’s lifeless form,
Dispersed across the wind-screen, like a sack.
Once-more the car was halted at the door of Thirty-
six. J
The corpse of Miss McVee was flung inside.
The neighbors, mystified at such disreputable tricks,
Exclaimed irritably, as they, went back to their
homes to get their morning tea: “The mystery
amounts to an absolute reflection upon Padding-
ton, and should be cleared up—failing which
the suburb may get a bad name and become one
in which quiet, respectable folks will decline
to reside.”
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


Do you shave yourself? If so you can
get the best results by using a Diamond Edge (brand)
razor; price 7s. 6d. ancf 10s. 6d. each, postage 6d.
extra. Also sole agent for Apex Hair Restorer, a
true hair-grower, 4s. 6d. and 12s. 6d. a bottle. Sup-
plied only by T. Wild, SO Sydney Arcade, Sydney.*
THE FORM OF ILL-HEALTH THAT MOST
PREVAILS IN AUSTRALIA.
We are told that the consumption of medi-
cine is greater in Australia than in any other
country, and this must be attributed to an
unsatisfactory condition of health affecting a
large proportion of our people. What then
is the prevalent form of ill-health ? All indi-
cations point one way—to the fact that the
average person suffers most frequently from
some disorder of the digestive functions, which
might be easily corrected by the right kind of
treatment. Modern medical authorities teach
us that most of our common ailments have
their origin in the digestive area. In a word
we poison ourselves (autointoxication) by
absorption from the intestinal tract. To over-
come this condition, the best remedy is
petroleum, because unlike other remedies it
reaches the intestines unchanged, where it
exercises its lubricating, anti fermentative
healing effects to the fullest extent. The
original and standard preparation of petroleum
for internal use is Angier's Emulsion, which
has been largely employed by the medical
profession ever since 1892. Apart from its
soothing, healing properties, Angier’s Emulsion
(because of the hypopbosphites which it con-
tains) exerts a marked tonic, invigorating
influence which makes it of value in a wide
variety of disorders Doctors prescribe it
largely, not alone for lung troub’es and wasting
diseases, but even more for digestive and bowel
disorders. Very good results have fo' owed
its use in the treatment of gastric ' .tarrh.
gastric ulcer, mucous colitis, nerv us dys-
pepsia, chronic, constipation, and in m-my
obscure digestive and bowel disorders that
have resisted other treatment. Of all chemists
at 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
*:-V>.
WARM VESTS FOR WINTER
I lie extra comfort and neat appearance imparted by
a woollen vest of quiet tone are worth considering at
the present season. One of our new styles is the S. B.
Cardigan Vest, in Grey Striped Wool, also in Fancy
xnitted Ileecy and plain wool of dark tones. The
welts, binding and back are knitted—the garments
thus being smart in appearance and very warm.
The vests are correctly shaped and of the most de-
pendable quality throughout.
I lease state shade and pattern preferred,
also chest measurement.
18/6
Catalogue of men’s wear on request.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
About a battle and an editor: —
That strictly theoretical fire-eater, Rev. Fitchett,
.nf Melbourne, he who wrote “Shrieks that Won the
- Empire,” thinks of going to Europe next year for
the centenary of the over-rated Battle of Waterloo.
It strange that Waterloo should fire Fitchett with
so much enthusiasm. On the British side was an
army, mostly German, Dutch and Belgian, and com-
manded by an Irishman (an ex-member of the Irish
Parliament). A Prussian general (at least he was a
Mecklenberger who had learned war in Sweden and
bad hired himself out to the Prussians) at Ligny, and a
German prince at. Quatre Bras had stood the first
shock of the disturbance and had shaken the assail-
ants so badly that their hopes were almost dead
Delore the row commenced. The French emperor—
an Italian with an incurable stomach disease—was
outnumbered at the rate of two to one. He knew
tnat at least three other armies were hurrying up to
attack him in the rear, and sooner or later he would
Deoutnumtared by six to one. His best marshals
were old or dead or missing. He had lost something
approaching a million men in the three terrible cam-
p igns of 1812 and ’l3 and ’l4, and France could
i ° cr a force that was worth a hill of
sliM,lt-i for c n 1 I oA^ tude ' Compared to the tremendous
6 i )f ? 09 ’ wllen France was at its zenith, and
Austria found six French armies closing on its one
fOIC0 ’ and Charles tfa e Archduke knocked
camm?sn tle Emperor at Aspern, the Waterloo
Sv fl , chdd S play ‘ 14 was a flnal muffle,
arranged and wholly one-sided. It is remem-
lon| d war EUS Ti- lt i, Wa n the laSt Scrap or flnal shot of a
IV u Jt hardly compared with Malo-Yarosla-
S,™ was a “ere side-show in Napoleon’s
hnrritrl campaj S n of 1812. The dispositions were
was a aad „ cuddled on both sides. There
over but T Jl ~f eeluiB - when the affair was
e-o ’ Thi ™ ? n t V , very much of a row as rows
fbont IS' B W A nge at Spottsylvania supplied
lm iln.r h a d a ad - body ln two hours as the Water-
sieht of^n g th dld i!” f day ’ yet it was almost lost
gbt of in the rush of bigger events.
„.i VV i i 1 '. luck ou «ht to be killed
and skinned and dried and stuffed and put
novl tr haspired at Annandale (Syd-
mni-L. aSt batard ? y Right. He was driving a
and he ran down Miss Emilv
S t?l P f ed ’ i! ged 32 , years - Her name was a
of Jho ,i She J as ? f fast eno «gh to get out
ani h fL 1 d -Vr l he dri y, er got her int ° his cal '
ai J d ded 5 er to Prmce Alfred Hospital,
tw 15 e ’ u as A kap P en ed, she was employed,
in ms baste or his progress or something he
promptly ran ovey George Adams, aged 56.
* ca si. being alraady full Of Emily Good-
speed the man victim was taken to the
Erince Alfred Hospital per ambulance. Both
patients died immediately on arrival. A
number of curious things happened last week,
including two desperate and unseemly fights
in the Australian House of Representatives
lor the possession of bedding; two English
suffragettes who screamed for 20 minutes in
VVestminster police court; one suffragette
who put up a hefty fight with the police
when they tried to take her out of court; the
new small-pox outbreak in Sydney, and the
further rise in the price of meat. But the
motorist who got mixed up in two fatalities
inside 200yds. ranks by himself as a man
with a hoodoo._ Even the pathetic spectacle
°f JoMh entering Nineveh with his decayed
whale under his arm is hardly in the same
category.
THE DISABILITIES OF YOUTH.
PERCY : "We aren't too young to get married."
DOLLY : “No, but mother thinks she’s too
young to let us."
AMPLE CAPACITY.
LADY : Well. Teddy, did you have lots of birthday cake?”
TEDY : “No, I could have eaten a ton.”
LADY : “Oh, no! You should be more moderate
TEDDY: “Well, half a ton!”
The latest social development in Sydney
and suburbs is what one may call the up-
roarious burglar. The old-time burglar was
a man who took scant pride in his profes-
sion. He worked by stealth. He felt a
pariah, and acted accordingly. Half a dozen
years ago the favorite poem of nine bur-
glars out of 10 was “Not Understood.”
Attend a burglars’ reunion to-day, and the
pieces selected for recitation are almost in-
variably virile, meaty affairs, such as “The
Charge of the Light Brigade” and
“Recessional.” Thei'e is significance in this.
In the course of the recent raid by masked
burglars on a Darlinghurst birthday party,
the owner of the violated
domicile was obliged to ask
the invaders to modify their
voices. They were howling
at the guests so loudly that
the host was in dread lest,
to use his own words, “the
place should get a bad
name.” His remonstrances
were brushed aside, and the
malefactors went on bellow-
ing their demands in more
deafening tones than ever.
The same tendency was ob-
servable in the motor ban-
dits who burst into a Pad-
dington house a few days
later. They did not intend
that there should be any
doubts, in the minds of the
neighborhood, as regards
their mission. They at-
tacked the front door with
an axe and the windows
with a crowbar, and having
effected an entry, bore away
a yelling female in her night-
gown. The new develop-
ment has both good and bad
features from the point of
view of the public. The
average peaceful burgher
prefers, if he has to be
robbed, that the job should
be done quietly. He hates
to have a total stranger
howling dementedly at him,
through a mask, in the dead
of night. On the other
hand, the practice of burg-
ling, with full orchestral
accompaniment, so to speak,
is likely to give the sleuth-
hounds of the law a better
/ chance. _ The _ spectacle of a masked
man battering in a door with an
axe, and the subsequent sound of his voice
screaming for money or other valuables,
constitute between them a useful Clue
for any fairly astute policeman who hap-
pens to be on the spot. And. after all, it is
a due that the Sydney sleuth stands chiefly
m need of.
There is a curious streak in the Yankee
character. The cable reports that the bodies
of two U.S. seamen who had been killed in
the Mexican confusion were “laid in state”
in a hall in Philadelphia, and, amid the rush
to look at tlic remains, one man was fatally
trodden on anu others badly injured. If
the tale is true it was a morbid crowd, and
if the whole thing is invention there is a
very morbid cablegrammer at large.
DEFINITE.
JUDGE (to actor who has been found guity of murder): "I s there anything you would
like to say before I pronounce sentence of death?”
ACTOR : Yes; I would like to say that this will be positively my last appearance.”
Coincidence, or heredity? A legal “Mile-
stones” drama, in three acts. Act 1: 40
years ago, a young lawyer in Adelaide was
flattered because his baby nephew was given
the same names as himself (the surnames
were already the same). Act 2: 20 years
ago, a highly-respected, middle-aged lawyer
in Adelaide viewed with pain and sur-
prise the behavior of his nephew, now a
member of the same profession, and altered
liis own name to avoid being mistaken for
him. Act 3 (to-day) : Nephew (who had
moved to Westralia) struck off the rolls
there for misconduct. Does uncle worry over
it? Not a worry. He got in first by a
length. Last year he was “struck off” in
South Australia himself!
According to a cablegram 40,000 special
services were held in England on a recent
Sunday, “in thanksgiving for the Blessing
of Sight!” When you come to think of it,
what is wrong with a special service in
thanks for the Blessing of Feet? Few
things are more dreadful than a total ab-
sence of feet, especially if the trouble is
hereditary.
* * * *
Adelaide Criminal Court was in a lenient
frame of mind at its recent sittings. Be-
sides letting off the usual batch of first
offenders, it said “Not Guilty” to a Nor-
wegian sailor who altered his captain’s wage-
cheque from 10s. to £lO 10s., and then cashed
it. He explained that he knew nothing
about cheques, but there was about that
amount owing to him for wages. Then,
when an apparently eccentric woman of 45
pleaded guilty to three charges of having
offered gilded sixpences for half-sovereigns,
Judge Gordon called her trick “silly and
foolish, and obvious,” and told her just to
come back for sentence “if called upon.”
* * * *
The arm of the law is strong and far-
reaching, and once it begins to revolve time
and cost are as nothing; and mere common
sense flees in a distracted state. The reflec-
tion is inspired by the case, at last Mel-
bourne sessions, of one whom we may call
Miss Wilhelmina McWatt. Miss McWatt
bad been registering the birth of her little
mishap. Its father was a married man. In
order to shield him from unpleasant conse-
quences she had given his name as John
George Smith, instead of what it really was,
John George. It was a ruffianly crime, and
the outraged Law probably thought some-
thing like three years “hard” would be
necessary to expiate it, but Justice Box, on
conviction, merely said “The rising,” and
forthwith rose. The Law was presumably
satisfied, having vindicated its authority and
shown its awful power; but the taxpayer,
who has to foot the bill for the foolishness,
probably reckons that it would be better
for the Yic. police to convict one real
criminal now and then, and let 10 such
harmless offenders go.
* * * *
The infant League that is trying to estab-
lish Rugby football in Adelaide is having
hard luck. The public cares only for the
Australian code, Soccer enthusiasts are
working hard to push their game, and
lacrosse is a rival of great prominence. And
now the Rugby folk have sent their first
treasurer to gaol—L. H. Humphreys, a keen
worker and possibly the most experienced
1-jyer available. He put up a spirited de-
fence to the effect that he had done all the
collecting and most of the organising, had
“repeatedly asked to have his books audited,”
and any shortage might represent out-of-
pocket expenses and loss of time. But he
was foolish enough not to engage a lawyer,
who. might very likely have turned the scale.
As it was, the jury said waveringly “Com-
mon larceny,. with strong recommendation
to mercy, owing to the very unsatisfactory
way in which the business of the League
was conducted”; and it meant five months.


THE DEVIL AND THE WOWSER.
HIS NIBS : “Yes, yes, my dear sir, I read your statement that thousands of women are ruined in Sydney every year. But where are they?”
PARSON: “Hush, my dear sir! Don’t mention it. We had to ruin most of them on paper a dozen times in the course of the year to keep up the sensation.


ON THE DOORSTEP.
EX-PREMIER FISHER: “ Poor little kid ! He’s in a beautiful sleep.”
PREMIER COOK: “Quite so. I’ve given him a dose of chloroform.”


GAELIC WHISKY
is now supplied in the
NEW PATENT NON-REFILLABLE
GUARANTEE BOTTLE.
The characteristics of GREAT
AGE, PURITY and QUALITY
have been most carefully ore-
served.
Agents: ORME, KEIGWINgCO.Ltd.
269-271 George Street, Sydney.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY,
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
NABOB BOOT PASTE,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney.
>N
EVERY DAY
more people are provine that
k.ivx
i* the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub—lengthens the
life of the clothes.
r
- .
V<f>/ *
\ i
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The Oldest Inhabitant sends along the
whole family:—
Died at Walcha (N.S.W.) Edward Norton, of Tiara,
•fourth son of the late James .Norton, of Elswick. The
Nortons came to Sydney about 100 years ago—lBl9,
'to be exact—and settled at Mulgoa, on the Nepean
River. The eldest son, James, was one of the earliest
solicitors admitted to practice in Australia. His
wife, mother of the member of the family just dead,
was a daughter of A. K. Mackenzie, an early manager
of the Bank of New South Wales. Edward Norton
married the adopted daughter of Rev. Fred Wilkin-
son, of Meads, Enfield. His eldest brother, James,
succeeded to his father’s business, as solicitor, and
became a parliamentarian and Minister of State. The
second eldest, John Oxley Norton, was police-magis-
trate at Dubbo; the third, William, a barrister.
Edward was always on the land. Albert, the sixth
son, became notable in politics in Queensland and was
Speaker of the Leg. Ass. for some years. James Nor-
ton, of Elswick (Leichhardt), was married twice, and
had a family of nine sons and four daughters.
Edward was 83 years of age when the light went out.
ERSKINE PARKER, well-known
Tasmanian sport.
Concerning a vigorous citizen
The last volley was fired in Auckland (M.L.), a
few days ago, over Captain Geo. Dormer, a warrior
who had raged over much sea and land in pursuit of
his particular relaxation. He joined Bull’s navy
at 12 years of age (that was in 1851), and went out
soon after to the Burmese war. Next he turned up
with his tools at the Crimea, was invalided, and dis-
charged on a pension of 6d. a day and little else,
unless he pawned or ate the Crimea medal with the
Sebastopol clasp and the Turkish medal for the same
disturbance. In 1857 he was feeling ready for
more trouble, and joined the 10th Regiment of the
Line. Then he became an instructor in the School
of Musketry, was transferred to the 14th Regiment,
and accompanied it to Maoriland, where the heathen
was gnashing his teeth and being a very mad heathen
generally. When the heathen was put out of business
Dormer’s regiment was moved on to Australia, but
be was back in England by 1870. There the restless
battler was transferred to the Dorset militia, was
retired on pension once more, volunteered with the
Dorset Rifles as instructor for two years, and was
passed out for keeps. But he wasn’t discouraged. He
just retired on Maoriland, joined the Auckland
City Guards in 1884, and became a lieutenant in
the corps. Later he was quarter-master of the Ist
Battalion and finally dropped out at the age limit
with the rank of Captain. If he had stayed much
longer he would have been appointed Honorary
Methuselah to the regiment.
ALLAN SIMESON, Mayor of Adelaide.
H. E. Pratten is president of the N.S.W.
Chamber of Manufactures and boss-organiser
of the show-week that Australian goods
have just had in Sydney shops. He is a
little Australian with big Australian ideas
—a bee who can buzz a lot and work as
hard as he can buzz. He isn’t a bee who
is satisfied with one flower. He is sucking
honey out of a printery and a fruit-pre-
servery and a tin mine or two. It was over
those tin mines that he probably did his
best stroke of business. Emulating the
Victorian and Hobart jam people, he went
north to look for concessions, and on present
appearances had extraordinary success.
Though most of the people he had to deal
with were Chinese potentates, the business
didn’t suffer a bit on account of Pratten’s
strenuous White-Australian ideas. The
potentate was always tremendously proud
of being a Chinaman, and when Pratten in-
quired how he’d like to have a half-breed in
the family, the argument mostly fell down
dead. The bigger and prouder the potentate
the deader fell the argument.
By “Clarence O’Hagan” :
A recent telegram from St. Petersburg states that
General Stoessel, who defended Port Arthur in 1904-5
against the Japs, is living in dire poverty. The old
soldier had a paralytic stroke last March —perhaps
the result of his experiences when Port Arthur was
cracked like a nut between the armies of Nogi and
the fleet of Togo. Stoessel was tried by court-martial
in 1908, and sentenced to death for having surren-
dered the place. Perhaps he didn’t deserve it; per-
haps he did ; but if he did, what about the gentle-
men in St. Petersburg who left him and his unfor-
tunate men (1) to starve, or (2) to surrender, or
(3) to commit suicide? Stoessel chose the second of
these alternatives. He went back to St. Petersburg
to expose the shortcomings of the Russian General
Staff which had left him to face whatever force Japan
cared to send against him —and Japan sent 200,000
picked troops, her finest fighting general, a formidable
fleet and a brilliant admiral or two —with 70,000
men and the most miscellaneous collection of stores
and arms in history. When the Japanese commander
“took stock” of Port Arthur’s contents he found
nearly 250,000 rounds of shell and ammunition
which didn’t fit any gun in the town, and over
100,000 rounds of dummy ammunition to fit the guns
which were available ! And this was only one thing
wrong out of dozens that the world has forgotten.
The value of useless stores and junk ran into mil-
lions. Stoessel, of course, was next door to helpless
when he faced the music in St. Petersburg. Who
wanted to listen to an unsuccessful general ? The
influence brought to bear against him was overwhelm-
ing, and he went under. Still he found one friend
of a sort —the Czar himself. The bureaucrats (call
them Public Opinion in Russia, please!) thirsted for.
Stoessel’s blood, but Nicholas commuted the death
sentence to 10 years’ imprisonment in a fortress,
and, one year later, gave a free pardon. After
all, Stoessel stood for the White Man, and he stood
a long time.
Died last week, aged 74 long years, Mrs.
Camidge, widow of a Bishop of Bathurst
(N.S.W.), who, it is said, was the only
musical Anglican Bish in Australia. The
deceased lady was a daughter of E. F. San-
derson, of Enclift'e Grange, Sheffield (Eng-
land), and a sister of Mrs. Roosevelt, wife
of the U.S. one-time president and lion-
eater. She came to Australia with the
Bishop in 18S7.
“Spasmode”—his speak :
Theoretically, the religious world abhors Rochefou-
cauld’s maxim that the admixture of a lie doth ever
give pleasure. As a matter of actual practice, it acts
on another of his maxims—viz., that words are given
to conceal thought. Which reflection is inspired by
the case of Pastor Spurr, sometime of Melbourne. The
reason which he originally gave for leaving was that
Melbourne was “too little.” The stage had arrived
when it couldn’t even contain Spurr’s head. As for
the relations between him and his “commytee” (I
believe that is the right pronunciation), nothing
could be more harmonious. And now comes a cable
(7/5/T4) which states, on the authority of Spurr
himself, that he left the Collins-street Baptist Church
because his committee refused to authorise an expen-
diture of £60,000 or £60,000 on enlarging the edifice.
The committee, headed by cautious secretary Blake,
wisely asked, “What guarantee have we that you
will remain, or continue to be a star, or that when
you inevitably do depart, we can get as good a draw
in your place?” So Spurr got annoyed and cleared
for London and more reclame. His case was similar
to that of R. J. Campbell, in Brighton (England),
at the Union-street Chanel. Some of the committee
said, “Let’s enlarge for our mighty star. Let us
be like the new Park-street Chapel, London, bursting
out when it obtained Spurgeon.” “Not so,” said the
canny majority. “Campbell will go to London, and
we will be badly left.” Campbell did go to London,
and the Brighton Chapel is ample. Spurr was no
Spurgeon, of course; nor even a Campbell. He was
a failure in Sydney. This scandalised him, so that
he came back and said Sydney was much wickeder
than Melbourne. The Melbourne Auditorium was
taken for his Sunday nights. There was a good attend-
ance, and yet his church was landed in £lOO debt
over the year’s operations in one way and another.
He had to make a special appeal for money. That
is not the kind of basis on which to enter upon a
£60,000 expenditure.
About the deceased :
Ernest Wood, who died in Melbourne the othel
day, had been organist of the Anglican St. Paul’is
Cathedral from its inaugural service, 24 vears ago. He
came to Melbourne, a very young man, a few month?
In advance Of the organ concerning which he had
been consulted ifi England when it was getting built.
He learned his business at Lincoln Cathedral, and,
hs a trainer of choir-boys and men, he could give
points to all the old hands whom he met in Mel-
bourne. They took off their hats to him. His talent
for organ playing amounted to genius almost, and
but for his heart complaint, which always kept his
enthusiasm and energy in a state of repression, under
medical advice, Ernest Wood might have “starred.”
Even the old Melbourne Town Hall organ, whereon
poor David Lee performed so noisily for many years,
was not incapable of testifying to Wood’s abilities.
He played the organ accompaniments for the late
Antoinette Sterling’s churchy songs when that time-
worn famous contralto gave concerts at the munici-
pal barn. And when old Antoinette tackled “The
Lost Chord” she got glowing notices in the Mel-
bourne press for certain lovely top notes which she
never sang at all. Her accompanist had produced
them from the organ, and the critics didn’t know the
difference. Nobody knew, except the short-winded
battler on the platform and the valuable artist who
sat up aloft to watch over her warble.
HER CONTINENT.
What impresses me, I believe, more than any-
thing else since I have been in the Commonwealth
is the vastness of Australia. — Sir Hartmann Just, of
London, to daily-paper interviewer.
THE OLD LADY : "You’re right, Mister; an ’
that ain't all neither. There’s miles an'
miles of suburbs as well."
Dead, at Broken Hill, H. W. Roberts,
who went round Australia as one of the
Tiny Town Co. The little fellow was a
solid grafter, and was at his work as a
feeder in the mill-house on the Proprietary
mine when he was caught by the neck in
the belting and strangled.
Samuel Way, the veteran Chief Justice
ot bouth Australia, has had a heavy blow
in the. sudden death of his wife. She was
the widow of a country doctor when she
married him 1C years ago, and has since
then been the most prominent figure in
Adelaide charities and hospitalities. She
had recently nursed the Chief through a
serious illness, and her own death was
utterly unexpected. The effect on the vet-
ex-an may be a marked one. Anyway, his
retirement seems about due. A judge can-
not be really at his best after 74; and his
record of nearly 40 years without ever hav-
ing had a judgment reversed is one that it
would be a pity to damage.
THE SYDNEY STADIUM'S REFEREE ,
HARAID BAKER.
“Heah! You weally mustn't do that, y’know."
He had not one redeeming feature in his
character except that he drank. — Extract
from a biographical work which has been
unanimously rejected by Australian pub-
lishers.
A Stout Lady sends this item from Mel-
bourne. (N.B. —The train was late, and it
arrived too belated for last week) : —-
The Pankhurst girl sums up all men as Brutes and
all women as Angels. She does it in the large, gener-
ous way that comes so easy to the enthusiastic young
female who is too much so to worry about small
details. Of course, she means every innocent word
she says-—they always do. She has plenty of youth-
ful earnestness and an engaging smile, also a girlish
sense of humor ; but she hasn’t grown up yet. She
seems naturally cute, and has a way with her that
almost persuades you that black is white with green
stripes ; you have to hang on tight to your common-
sense while she is talking. At the lecture I attended
she drooped round the pot-plants in a pale-pink dress
that had pearly fringe hanging about it, and made
her look like a cocoanut-ice bridesmaid. Her voice is
small but shrill, and she talks so furiously and
shakes her small head so hard that hairpins rattle
on the floor. (What she should do is put her head
in a bag.) It is evident that she is now suffering for
studying Ma in her worst tantrums. A large blit
rather apathetic audience gave her a polite hearing;
and only two men Were sufficiently interested to shOut
at her or ask questions. During a rush bf back-
seaters for positions nearer the front, chairlady (not
charlady!) Vida Goldsteih, who Was gowned beauti-
fully in rose-pink, shouted “Sit down AT ONCE!”
just like an angry teacher. Fortunately she refrained
from coming down and spanking the offenders. A Mrs.
Baynes, who appeared on the platform with little Adel-
aide (or Adela) was revealed as an imported militant
who has come hither without any press booming. She
only got a ten-minute chance at the conclusion of the
Pankhurst outburst (or Pankoutburst or Pankburst),
but she really should have a lecture of her own.
Mrs. 8., from “the north countree” of England,
boomed like a cathedral chime, and dropped her
aitches impressively by the wayside. Her steady,
clear, massively musical voice would make the for-
tune of any aspiring politician. I would dearly like
to see her—spectacles, square shoulders and all —on
a platform of her own. She looks as if she could
give That Hateful Monster Man what he deserves.
She is militancy personified, whereas Adela is prac-
tically a terror in disguise. A man would have to
marry her to get her opinions in their fullest force,
and, really, she is just the sort that an optimistic
bachelor might want to marry.
GREAT SCOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Responding to the toast of his health, Sir Ronald
Munro-Ferguson said, if offices in high places would
seem to have been reserved by Providence for Scotch-
men, it was doubtless because, in addition to their
abilities and their pertinacity, Scotchmen were linked
together with Freemasonry.— Account of Governor-
General Mo-Ferg's reception in the West.
The Common Man was dead, and sad-
’Ly up the stair he came.
A native of Geelong, he had
On Heaven’s grace no claim.
He stood before the Golden Gate
To know his everlasting fate.
To him St. Peter flew. He saw,
With great amazement, then
St. Peter was a Scotchman raw,
The sandiest of men.
“Ye canna gang in here,” he cried.
“There's mickle souls in breeks inside.”
The spirit “slippit” in his paw
A bawbee bright and new,
And passed in where a flock so braw
Of Scottish angels flew.
Their plaids were held with brooches gilt,
And every angel wore a kilt.
The Common Man beheld great ghosts
In power around the place.
They were Arch-Angels, and the hosts
Were Macs in every case—
McTavishes, McDougals and
Macgregor, he who led the band.
Then said the stranger: “Are there none
Allowed but Scottish men?”
“There’s maybe twa or three,” said one.
“They’re no account, ye ken.
The places high the Loard allots —-
As ye might guess—to brither Scots!”
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


MILD FL/VKE.
£<?* NET
-- ' " ' ■
— ™,»
. _i
Mild, Sweet
Flake-Cut
Coronet
THE VERY LATEST AND MILDEST OF ALL FLAKE-CUT TOBACCO,
When smokers desire a mild tobacco they are confronted with the one
great objection —it all burns hot and parches the tongue.
Coronet is the nezv Flake Cut —a tobacco not only mild enough for
the most delicate smoker , but is rich in character , and all the
parching and burning trouble is entirely removed.
While this fact is guaranteed by the manufacturer , a practical
demonstration lies in a 2-oz. tin , as illustrated above.


Woodworking Machinery g Engineers’Tools
COVENTRY CHAINS FOR MOTOR LORRIES.
Kindly lec us have your enquiries. “ INGECO ** FARM ENGINES
Clarence Street, Sydney.
BUCYRUIS CO. Milwaukee
Steam Shovels. Pf 4 g Line Excavators.
5... **.*«. WILLIAM AD a ; s COMpANY limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane. Perth>
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
State Treasurers had a conference in
Melbourne last week and did nothing, as usual.
? ertainly they put their names to a p.n. with some
in-relevant remarks on it, and Joe Cook and his
I reasurer solemnly endorsed the joke. 'fhe State-
'debts question they did nothing with, the “small
I reasurers frankly confessing that that was (he only
I lung they were prepared to do with any measure
'that might limit their visits to the pawnshop. On
w rabjecl of the competition of Commonwealth and
■State sayings banks they perpetrated the joke before
'alluded to. Apparently without consulting the Gov-
'crnor of the Commonwealth Bank, they agreed that
the latter should go out of the Savings Bank business,
'which it is specially fitted to handle inasmuch as
■the Commonwealth has post-offices, and therefore
savings-bank agencies everywhere. In return, it is
to have the States’ banking business, which it’ is not
competent to effectively handle, inasmuch as it has
branches hardly anywhere outside the capital cities
ot the States. Fortunately this stupid “arrange-
ment cannot be effected without tearing up the
Act by which the Commonwealth Bank was created ;
and 1 arliament is no more likely to do that than
it is to certify that Joe Cook is the best-tempered
man it ever met. *
* * * *
The allegedly non-borrowing Holman Gov-
ernment of N.S.W. has rushed to London for yet
another loan of £3,000,000 at-4 p.c. It is to be
£ „® 9 . for evel '.>' £lOO, so the lender gets a
piesent of £1 in each £lOO. Then there are under-
writing charges, stamp duties and sundries. On a
careful estimate the State is borrowing at £4 6s
p.c. per annum which is about the most costly ex-
pel lence it has had inside 30 years. In 1895, before
Jiarf-hr i Ol hOVVI of P rofli ff ac y commenced,
ralsed a loan at as little as £2 19s. 6d. p.c.
pu annum. Those were the days when its credit
T/'v-f 0 - ’ ? nt affairs hadn’t passed into the hands
L Ti l w Ulla hr- ful avera ff e rate of interest on
N - IJ - W - public debt was £3 10s. 3d. p.c. in
old 10 3 rff Tn S £ f 3 n n f- 5tL , pc in 1913 ' ancl as th e
old 3 p.c. loans fall due and are renewed at 41 p.c
the average rate must needs go up gailv. In 1910
intei t est'ratc ad w est Cl ' edit a "' l I>ai(l the lowest
nm w t , can ?p n ? xt - 111 1913 the credit
Ilian’lW’ f imlS-ed by the interest rate, was worse
than that of either Victoria or Westralia. When (lie
figures for 1914 are available N.S.W. will probably
be even further down the list, for the habit of float-
ing big loans at £4 6s. p.c. raises the average in-
terest rate amazingly. 1,1
The Australian Mutual Fire Insur-
ance Society (now Ltd.), of Sydney:—
Bonus
to Added Total
n . Policy- to Re-
Mar Pro6ts ‘ Dividends. holders. Funds, serves.
J90l" lo’qrl tI! PC ‘ Z’ 087 4937 6,039 109J53S
V.o 9 ’, 63 18i ” 7 ’ 036 4 °36 8,891 118,529
190 2 2 ’’ °iTo*9 ei 7li transfel ’ red to Capital.. 106,029
190 2 " it’? ll iff P ’ C ’= 8 ’ 224 4224 0.,504 111,533
1904" Inf ” ” 8 ’ 248 4248 4 >688 116,221
l9 fMoV,nn 3 ’p l3 16s ” 8)290 4290 10,733 126,954
1<)0-' J ’°9l transferred to Capital.. 114,454
1996" oo’.no ffl pc = 9 ’ 312 4312 7,823 122,277
1907" 9?’6fi9 ml ” ” o’o 6 ? 4262 6,879 129,156
19 V 7 -- r 21)662 U i ” » 9,237 4238 8,087 137,243
’ ,o ° teservos transferred to Capital. 124 743
1909" fl’97- }f P-c. = 10,430 4430 6,370 131,113
lOm" if- ” ” 10 > 553 4558 3,171 134,284
Ik'Ja 2 ’! 3 145 ” » 10,983 4984 6,370 140,654
£lo,ooo Reserves transferred to Capital.. 125,654
Info' Z 4,005 13J p.c. = 12,040 5140 6,825 132,479
lOUt" 90 oar Zaa ” ” 12)588 53 88 4,664 137,143
49 3 " ? 9, 9 44 44 f „ ~ 13,497 6297 1,150 138,293
1914.. 20,302 15J „ ~14,205 7005 137,385
T h]s clo , es it a different way. It pavs “in-
terest to shareholders at the rate of 8 p.c. Then
it halves between shareholders and policyholders a
bonus winch for a good many years past has been
, p.c. of the total premiums. The policyholders’
lump of sugar they get on renewing. The net profits
it will be seen have been shrinking steadily during
the past three years. Perhaps it is not so serious
it looks. Lnder ordinary circumstances one
would judge that the co. had lost its punch. As a
matter of fact it has been spending a good deal of
money in getting ready to punch in another class
Mown to five years ago the institution which, until
tnen, was not limited, was not authorised to take
on accident and other side lines. It got the neces-
f ar J authority and organised new departments.
■UKI tn;it meant outlay. Even then it confined itself
to N.S.W.—a very proper thing for it to do at the
atar „’ seeln £ that its paid capital when it began in
? 8 ' 2 was only £6250. Within the last two years
it has established branches in Melbourne and Bris-
bane, and that has meant more outlay. Still, the
business saould come, for the eo. financially is extra-
ordinarily strong. Its premium income' last year
was £ 58,522. Its capital and reserves after paving
the current dividend and bonus, amount to £227.385
or 388 p.c. of that premium income, which exhibits
more than .twice the strength of the average posi-
tion of British offices. Apart from its city freehold
and mortgage investments it has on fixed deposit and
at call 150 p.c, of its premium income, which alone
puts it ahead of most companies. But while business
must come to a company like this when the other-
slaters know its position, costs are for the present
mounting up, though they would probably have
mounted up if the co. had remained to grow mossy
m its old home. The next table shows the move-
ments in regard to exes., etc.:—
T) _ Loss Expense
1 renuums. Lqsses. Expenses. Rate. Rate
a .. £29,416 £6,717 £12,828 22.8 p.c. 43.6 pc
4 990 .. 33,888 8,1.31 13,765 24.0 „ 40 7 P
l-Oo .. 36,088 7,149 15,009 19.8 „ 416 ”
■; •• 31,462 7,710 16,818 20.6 „ 44 9 ”
1909 .. 38,824 11,223 18.170 25.9 „ 46 8 ’
4949 ’■ 41)845 9,890 18,748 23.6 „ 44 8 ”
1911 .. 43,459 11,039 17,760 25 4 „ 40 9
1912 .. 44,821 12,322 19,312 27 5 43 1 ”
1913 .. >-i, 260 17,478 25.056 32.8 ” 47'0 ”
1914 . . 58,522 21,992 27,899 37.5 „ 47.7 ”
I’ 9 4op °, f j ts hi^ier exes, came the exceptional
ossc, of last year—a misfortune common to most
Lnghsli as well as Australian companies. However
V t l h, ' ro "’ere no losses there would be no insurance’
And a co. which still shows less than 38 p.c. of
™ s f B has 110 reason to hang crape round its door-
The New York Life Insurance Co
No doubt the big fJnit.ed States offices needed steadv-
ing up. They had got bloat fever; they thought
mammoth figures were everything. As lon'Z as busi-
ness was got the price didn't matter. The” row that
was made just upon JO years ago was largely politi-
cal and mostly bogus, but it served one good pur-
pose—it made the offices reconsider their ways For
a while there was a bad scare, and foolish people
thought that gold-hug millionaires had almost
emptied the tills and that there wasn’t much left for
policy-holders. Gradually, however, that idea was
get rid of; and, instead of losing ground, as thev
dill for a time when policies were thrown in whole-
sale, this and other offices began to steadily increase
their incomes. The New York Life's total has moved
this way:—
Income.
1907 £20,861,878
1908 21,008,852
1909 21,401,462
__ 1910 22,099,262
' : , 1911 .". .. 23,152,124
1912 .. .. 24,449,797
1913 25,529,031
Doy.htless the speed would have been faster but for
tjic. law, passed when the N’York legislature real-
ised that the cos. were going too fast, limiting the
amount of new business that ah office may take in a
year and fixing a maximum expense rate. The co.
took all the business it was allowed to in 1912, and
no doubt repeated the p'ertormance last year. In
1912 the cost was 9 p.e. ufader the leghl maximum,
and it seems to have been about the same or a trifle
higher in 1913.
* Under United States law the entire assets have to
be valued every year; and the statement of income
and disbursements shows the increases in valuation
on one side and the shrinkages on the other. In the
foregoing table of incojne for the past few years the
increments htiyfe beerY disregarded; only profits oh
actual sales have been included. These profits last
year amounted-tp-£33,540, while losses were £6910,
leaving £ 26,88 w net. The estimated shrinkages and
increments ill the market value of unsold assets have
been as follows
Shrinkages. Increments.
1907-'* ~ T. £4,736,327
1908 .. 49,760 £40,360
1909 .. 892,413 1,412,746
1910 .. 247,613 90,513
1911 178,277 159,670
1912 405,539 53,104
1913 .. 68,317 57,405
1 lie total net shrinkage in the market value of securi-
ties looks big; but it is really very small consider-
lnir the way. British Consols and such securities have
slumped during the past few years, and remembering
that this co. has over £150,000,000 of assets to
spread the slump over. And if this co. has had to
put up with shrinkages because of the world’s demand
tor a higher interest return (which, of course, means
a lower price for the security), it also has shared
in the higher interest return on its big investments
of recent years. Compared with 1905 its average
earnings are now 0.32 p e. more—they stand at pre-
-4.54 p.c. As said just now there are
£103,806,173 of assets. Spread 0.32 p.c. over that
Jot, and you get upwards of £485,000. In other
words, the present interest earnings are £485,000 a
■year more than they would be if the 1905 rate were
effective now ; and the present earnings are as much
as £i°,9lo,oo° more capital would have produced in
1900. The shrinkage in the market value of the
assets isn’t, therefore, such a serious matter, after
all. Anyway, there is a fine set-off against it.
Now look at the other side of the New York
Life s account as well:—
Income £25,529,031
Outlay
Claims £13,681,285
Expenses . . . . 3,011,143
Net shrinkage in
value of assets .. 10,912
16,703,340
Added to funds £8,825,691
from the Australian point of view, exes., and especi-
ally new business exes., are still rather high. Charg-
ing renewal business 7 p.c. of the premiums and
annuity premiums 3 p.e., and throwing the re-
mainder of the outlay on to new ordinary business,
it will be found that the cost of the latter, on this
basis, which, of course, is quite arbitrary, was 98
pc. of the first-year premiums. It isn’t a bad
result, bv any means; but the Australian offices
which show up best in this connection giet their busi-
ness a good many points cheaper.
No comparison of any value can be made as to
cq'Tol , ‘P 1 li dends to Policy-holders” totalled
3,102,137; but that, it seems, included deferred
dividends under a class of policy which used to be
a popular one with United States offices. All that
can be said is that, with a distinctly moderate ex-
pense rate and a very fine rate of interest earnings,
the net cost of insurance (which, after all, is the
important point) should be very reasonable. There
’ s , an ° ther „ blatter, certainly, which affects bonuses,
and therefore net cost of insurance. This is the
I ? experience; and on that point no infor-
available. Even more important than the
office Ln lns Tv ai r ’• the soli(litv of the insuring
office , and on that point no doubts at all can be
entertained. The assets have to go through the ordeal
ll'T "' l , 01 ’ every year; and on the latest valua-
tion, leased on market values, there was £2l 760 805
Sr'asHhev T?," Sh H sa t isf -'' contract obligations so
tar as they ha\e matured. The greater part of this
surplus is held awaiting apportionment on deferred-
dividend policies; but apart from that there is a
Ifif Ve f °r safety of upwards of £1,600,000,
besu.es half a million to covet special contingencies.
According to the last official figures available, the
„„' ok , Llf ? had Australia )’£ 2,191,551 of insur-
ance exclusive of bonus additions—an amount slightly
in excess of the insurance in/force with the Equit-
tntifl an nf tn o ’°A oo l n t? ccss of the Mutual of N'York’s
N VnH- r-t S - A «L Str l l v? °- ffices the one "ext to the
wnl.l 'HI ,J he t ab ! e ,s the City Mutual. But
nheieas the latter had issued 18,629 policies to
cover £2 008,228, the big U.S. affair had only 5673
nohcies to cover something short of half a million
* * * *
The .Sun Newspaper. Ltd. (Svdi)ev)
which bought the assets of the Australian Newspaper
Co. in March, 1910, for £28,000, or £.31,82 lels
than they were then alleged to be worth:
•yr T „ WT-ittenToße- Re-
-1910 L —‘ Dividends. Off. serves.serves.
1911.. £2,063 _ Nil £B5B ~°2ll
Profit Prenll,ims 011 shares ..£5773 5984
1913" 3’7b5 SI 1 2042 1067 7051
191.>.. 3,795 Nil 7273 3573
1914 iiiii P oT ,l ' mS °n “hares -- 5503 9076
1914.. 13,411 94 p.c. = £BOOO 6000 8487
There is a doubt about some of these figures. Twelve
“ t .i, CrR - T' C , 28 011 unallotted shares out
ot a total authorised of 100,000. The directors sent
a new issue to market at a premium of ss. The
present accounts show that 22,011 were taken up
in the .ordinary wav and 6000 were allotted as em-
ployees shares. Whether the latter also carried the
premium does not transpire. In fact, so far as these
*nhe"'nt J c ° nc , e ™ e f the .premium does not tran-
' In the table it has been assumed that
the emolovees got their shares at par. The ss. on
the balance would produce £5503, and it looks as if
this amount plus a trifle had been transferred to the
plant and machinery reserve. This is, presumably, a
lund to cover current depreciation and provide' for
replacements. It. has grown £6OOO in the T 2 months.
Jt nothing besides, the premium has beom written off
to , s , ay ’ l f nothing has been charged direct
to profit and loss for the .wear and tear of the plant
• tlle true profit is less than the £13,411 shown
above. W hether anything has been written off or not
ls mipossible to sav. The published profit and
0011 "n 1 il e f ?. lai "/ K a surplus for the year of
£9069, and the directors say that this is after
makmg reserves for depreciation and plant.” I„
addition to that profit, however, there is a reserve
for contingencies, £3345. which for the present has
’ en , reclioned as profit in the table which sits on
the head of these remarks. ' - • y
Liabilities, including trade creditors and £l6 000
of a mortgage, amounted on March 31 to £26,140
and as a contract has been accepted for building
additions to the offices in Castlereagh-street at a cost
of £17,6J3, the directors have decided to issue
another 25,000 shares on the terms of the last issue.
For the present, this is ho\V matters standi—
„ . , 1911. 1612, 1913. 1914,
Capital . ... .. £24,950 £48,000 £62,993 £B3, 50g
Liabilities .. . . 44,334 18,064 18,414 26,140
freehold .. .. 21,277 21,284 23,298 41,650
Plant . . . . 36,238 36,604 34,037 60,118
Stock . . . . 4,958 3,854 7,301 11,682
Book debts.. .. 6,825 11,422 17,918 19,439
Cash, etc 1,086 1,772 2,424 2,670
Considering the amount spent Oil freehold and plant,
and considering also the business which has beeh
built up on a foundation which Certainly cost nothing
or practically nothing, the Capital account as it stands
is remarkably small. The UmtAhn in Melbourne has
a capital of £260,000, of which £198,000 was paid
tpi goodwill. The HeRALD certainly has no cOmpeti-
tion; still, it has had to spend a lot Of money to
stave it off, and prepare for it should it
f on ? e - {he Sun has competition, but In the face Of
that it has achieved a sales record of 87,827 as a
month’s daily average for the Week day, and 127,619
as an average for the Sabbath issue. FOr the present,
profits are not commensurate with the circulation, but
there is no doubt something in the directors’ excuse
{hat exes, have been extra heavy because the business
has been carried on during the year amidst the litter
and upset of building operations. The dividend, by
the way, is officially described as 8 p.c. But as the
directors say it will absorb £BOOO, it seems that
1 8 . , 13 to be paid on the full 205., whereas
only 10s. has been paid on the last 22,011 shares
issued, and a good deal less than that on the
employees’ shares.
* * * *
Aerated Bread Co. (Sydney), which
£ 17,905 ° f Us “hital represented by
Written
Apr., 1910 Pr^ ta Dividends. Off Deficifj.
Sept, 1910.'. .£2347 0 p.c. *,£1050 £428
Mai., 1911. . 3384 8 1400 228 15 340
Sept., 1911.. 3861 10 „ ~ 1750 553 13 782
Mar., 1912.. 3461 10 ~ ~ IfflO. 439 12,510
1912.. 3296 10 „ ~ 1750 228 11J92
Mar., 3913. , 2444 8 1400 990 lo'avr
Sept, 1913.. 2676 8 „ ” 1400 187
Mar., 1914.. 1648 6 ” ” 1050 1187 9,870
the capital to start with was £35,000, at which
it still stands. Of this lot £17,965 was repre-
by goodwill—the goodwill in one cafe, the
matter nf h rT® just about to expire,- and, as a
nf' fa / Ct ’ 110 t renewed, and in
onnosfie tvf i” 0W H? 6 main Premises) almost
opposite, the lease qt which is to expire In
September, 1917, and, according to the directors’
report now issued, is not to be renewed cither. Yet
eonrlwD^ rativel.y prodigious amount paid for
goodwill straight out, an additional £3750 was repre-
sented by leases. This item has been written down,
shown in P f r n ce f, ' as be . en slow > tlle amounts being
£ l:"f he r able ; , Apart from this provision for
the amortization of leaseholds, which is strictly not
anvthirfi'a? “n u”’ u is ex . trem( Ty doubtful whether
anything at all has been written off against wear and
' t . !ITie ago £lOOO was accumulated to
hit ?, er , al depreciation. This amount has now
bee f* the plant account. It seems
probable that when it was set aside it was simply to
cover current chips and smashes, and in that ease,
so tar as can be seen, wear and tear for the past
year ls quite unprovided for, notwithstanding the
amount nominally written off. Consequently it is
very doubtful whether the true profit for the past
half-year .was anytlnng like £1461, or. counting the
S siclo ani ? ,m i .Provided for amortization of lease,
iw * I n connection it may he worth noting
that for the half-year ended March, 1913, profit and
loss was debited with “salaries, rents, maintenance
renewals, depreciation” and other items. In the next
half-year maintenance and renewals” dropped out.
' n ,, e P, ast half-year “depreciation” drops out as
well. Before ascertaining whether the co, could get
renewals of its leases, the directors decided that
™nst ha Y e a freehold factory. This has run into
i 11,179 Of course all that money was not avail-
able, so there is a plaster on that asset. The whole
situation, so far as liabilities and tangible assets,
apart from stocks, plant and freehold, are concerned,
boils down to this:—-
Sept., March, Sept., March,
- , ' , , 1911. 1913. 1913. 1914.
Cash and book debts £10,109 £2,114 £728 £7OB
Sundry creditors, etc. 3,433 11,990 11,361 11,505
Surplus .. £6,676 H
Deficiency £9,876 £10,633 £10.797
Or put the matter this'way:—-
Capital ..... .. aor nnn
Cash and book debts .. .. £7^B
Stocks .. .. .. AOOI
Plant .. .. .. ;; M 1**474
Freehold „. . , ' ’ i* T
Sundries .. .. .‘ ’gq^
Less liabilities ~ . . . . 11 505
23,451
Capital unrepresented by visible assets .. £11,549
And. tlia,t-4s, of course,, before payment of the current
dividend. What the- plant and the freehold factory
woulit be. worth if there were no cafe to employ them
this paper doesn’t know. Certainly there are two or
shops’ apart from the main premises, and
. h” directors have hopes of getting some place or
other m substitution for the principal premises, the
lease of which is,shortly to die.
* * * *
The Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co.j of Maoriland (Dunedin) :
nn^o* 1 ’ Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
iooq " £1370 9 p.c. = £9OO £470 ' £5,180
1903 . 1365 10 „ „ 1000 365 5,545
four ” 2234 12 ” ’* 1200 1034 6,579
ion s “ 4138 15 >■ >’ 1500 2638 9,217
1900 .. 2880 15 „ „ 1500 1380 10,597
] 99 ' •’ 4G9 ' 15 ” » 1500 197 10,794
4998 ” 1880 15 ” ” 1500 380 11,374
1909 .. 1847 15 „ „ 1500 347 11,521
{ 94G • • 2185 15 „ „ 1500 685 12,206
iqi '• 4889 15 »>> 1500 380 12,536
4942 • • 2490 15 „ „ 1500 690 13,276
4943 ” 4876 15 ” » 1500 376 13,658
1914 •• 1709 ■l5 „ „ 1500 209 13,861
/ ac< i , tbat tb ? probt is > with one exception,
the lowest for 11 years, is no cause for alarm. A trustee
co. derives its revenue from two principal sources—
fhlT, ““S’ o " • and a percentage of the income
the trust funds earn. The second, of course, lyings
in a pretty steady income. The first may o/ mav
not, some cos. drop the whole of the corpus into
the profits, others reckon on the length of time thev
?Hh l ,ke & t 0 take t 0 wind up the estate, and dis-
tribute the corpus over that period. And apparently
this 00.- is of the first class. Naturally, l if the
honnrl 1S t^°n pec In a , lum P- the-profit column is
Pound to have ups and downs, according to rhe
!|V"’ lb , f r r °J clients who have obliged the co. by dying."
charge-' n,us' K 91 ° f Maorlknd reckons • its corpus
u, ee n thus. 24 p.c. on the first £5OO,
4 U b P v , on the secol) d £5OO and 1 p.c.
t 8 anc t That is decidedly moderate. After
-that it takes_s p.c; on the first-£so<b of income and-
P.o. on tile balance—also moderate, especially in
fact that the professional trustee is
always handy, puts up a big .guarantee that he
won t quit, and depends for his own living on the
success he. makes of the investments. Besides the
n - reserves the c°. has ,a paid capital
called lo t lu - rtber / 4 °, 000 available to he
ca j™; Trust estates m hand amount to £1,972 763
nnil h v a u- 1 commission on. that amounted to
oniy £3693 which is more cheerful from the
Neverthew" F e \ from the shareholders’*
Nevertheless, the shareholders get a solid 15 p.c., and
there- is -still a -fra<*mef)t left' over for reserves.
The Towksville Gas and Coke Co.
(Q.) i
Dividend ahd Written To Me- Re-
Mai'., Profits, Dividend Tax, Off, serves, serve-.
1902.. £3505 10 p,C, =£1575 £1930£58»J
1903.. 3466 10 „ „ 1575 £lBO2 89 5972
1904.. 3705 10 „ „ 1575 2130 8102
1905.. 3751 lO „ 1575 1691 485 8587
1906.. 3504 124 „.» 1969 1335 200 8787
1907.. 3738 124 a a 1969 1299 470 9257
£7500 of Reserves Capitalised .. 1757
1908.. 3390 10 p,C. = 1643 375 1372 3129
1900.. 8715 10 fi ~ 2614 1000 101 3230
Premiums On new shares., 96 332 C
1910.. 4156 10 0.6: = 2625 1531 4857
1911.. 5549 124 ,j 8670 200 d 4736
PieiliiumS On he\V shales. , 49 4785
1912.. 5330 lOp.f*. = 3134 1000 1196 5981
1913.. 5845 10 i, i, 3219 1000 1620 7607
1914.. 6719 10 hi ; 4360 1000 1359 0960
During the veal shareholders were offered a big
bunch Of shares at pal, and most Of them were
taken up. The result is that Capital nd\V stands at
£47,336 as against £39,280 as at March, 1913.
This year the it) p.c. dividend calls fpi £4360 j
next year it vVill call fol more. Allowing fbr the
usual £lOOO to be written off, this meads that thS
co. will need to make close on £6OOO to pay the
10 p.c. Seeing that it has done that only once, the
dividend is liable to be disturbed by the least slump
in Townsville and district —and particularly the dis-
trict, for Townsville, being the port, depends almost
entirely on the production of the surrounding coun-
try, which includes the Ayr sugar land. As will be
seen by the profit column, the district has been hav-
ing a glorious time of late. Recently the do. began
some pletty extensive expansion. It is building a
new gas holder and Works, and, like a loyal Aus-
tralian, is Importing everything from London. Like-
wise when Its engineer retired it imported a suc-
cessor from England. The consumption of gas has
Increased wonderfully. Five years back, at March,
1909, the. sales were £10,078; for the 12 months
under review the total Was £20,214, or more than
double, Liabilities airibuilt to £1223, against
which there is £5183 in the bank, £3215 Of sundr.V
debtors, stocks Worth £4563 stnd £47,950 in pre-
mises and plant. The premises and plant are kept
very well written down.
* * * *
The East Greta Coal Mining Co.
(N.S.W.) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Ro-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, selves.
£ £ £ £ £
Mar., '06., 3,528 5 p.c, = 3,554 1000 13,971
Sept., '06.. 2,368 3 ~ ~ 3,750 - 12,589
Mar., ’07.. 0,669. 3 „ „ 3,750 2000 916 13,505
Sept., ’07..14,916 1.0 „ „ 7,500 7000 416 13,921
Mar., ’08..19,782 M. ~ „ 7,500 6500 5,782 19,703
Sept., ’OS.. 16,829 10 „ „ 7,500 2500 6,829 26,532
Mar., 09.. 9,510,10 „ „ 7,500 2000 10 26,542
Sept,, ’09.. 9,130 10 „ 7,500 1630 26,542
Loss.
Mar., ’lO.. 3,073 Nil 23,469
Profits.
Sept., ’10..26,203 15 p.c. = 11,250 4000 11,013 34,482
Mar., ’11..12,665 15 „,, 11,250 1,415 35,897
Sept., '1f..12.281 10 „ „ 7,500 —• 4,781 40,678
Mar., ’12.. 8,125 10 „ „ 7,500 3500 37,803
Sept., ’12..15,290 10 „,, 7,500 3056 4,740 42,543
Mar., 13..17,604 10 „ „ 7,500 3203 6,959 49,502
Sept,, *13,,18,084 10 „ „ 7,500 3303 7,281 56.753
Transferred to capital, £18,750 .. 38,033
Mar., ’14..10.032 10 p.c. = 9,207 3500 3,325 41,358
lliis energetic company has had a rather eventful
half-year. , It has had another fire, which has led
to the sealing of No. 2 tunnel and a consequent reduc-
tion of output; it has given shareholders a long-
expected plum in the shape of a bonus of 18,750
fully-paid £1 shares, with the light to take up
another 31.250 at par, and it lias bought the mine and
what was left of the plant of its very unfortunate
little neighbor, the Ileddon Greta, paying £6OOO
and getting what, at that price, ought to be a bar-
gain, even though it may not want the ground for the
present. It had two mines already, the East Greta
and the Stanford Merthyr, besides a valuable railway
line, on which it carries a general traffic as well as
its own coal. Notwithstanding the recent increase
of capital, which, has brought in £15,383 (the
shares are Called to 10s., and a few pounds are still
unpaid), ahd notwithstanding, also, the recent - issue
of bonus shares, the capital to represent the three
mines, the railway and a very complete plant, is only
£184,133. Certainly there are liabilities totalling
£48,913, including £28,000 of debentures, but as
against that there are liquid assets worth £40,672.
Mines, plant, railway, etc., stand In the books at
£233,097. Tlds is £40,809 more than it was five
years ago. Tim Bulletin can’t guess how much
more than £40,509 has been spent on mine purchases,
coal-cutting machines and other mine and railway
plant. But the co. has got work done a lot cheaper
than other people, if the total outlay has not run to
between £75,000 and £lOO,OOO. The policy with
regard to the writing down of assets out of uni-s-
-ported profits is not as plain now as it used to be
when the hook Value of the principal properties were
Shown separately. But it is still clear that in the
past year just upon £7OOO has been written off
plant. So far as one can judge, capital and reserves
are represented by assets worth every penny of the
value that is set against them, a thing that can’t be
said with regard to a good many Coal-mining concerns.
Whether the utmost profit is got out of the turnover
is the one point on which there is some reasonable
doubt. Tf it isn’t, it is probably because the
arrangements for marketing the coal are not what
they might be.
* » 4 *
The Mount Lyell (Tasmania) Mining
and Railway Co.; —•
dividends and Written flee
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
Sept., 1905. .201,985 124p.c.= 78,750 9,021 352,301
Mar.. 1906. . 267,795 20 ~ ~126,000 8,713 485,383
Sept., 1906. . 251,095 25 „ ~157,500 10,071 563,907
Mar., 1907. . 28?,938 s2s., ~205,074 11,810 035:206
Sept,, 160*. . 160,623 35',, „ 220,551 11,740 553.500
Mar , 1908. . 141,730 20 „ ~126,168 9,723 559.429
Sept,. 1.9.08. . 168,130 174 „ ~110,364 12,006 605,189
Mar., 1900. . 141.683 174,, ~110,372 10,153 026,347
Sept., 1909. . 155,081 174,, „110,300 9,930 661.198
Mar., 1010. . 131,506 174,, ~111.094 10,076 671.534
Sept., 1910. . 106,274 174,. ~110,594 10,147 657.067
Mar., 1911.. 100.022 124,, „ 79,282 9,964 667.843
Sept., 1911.. 8.3,775 12|„ „ 80,098 §,46§ 602.052
Mar., 1012.. 31,596 Nil 11,082 682,566
Premiums on new shares, £21,685.. 704,251
Sept., 1912.. 122.009 124 p,e,= 80,922 9,608 735,730
Mar., 1913.. 5.014 ' Nil 32,738 708,006
Sept., 1913.. 53,462 Nil 32,249 729,219
Premiumson new shares, £738 .. 729,957
Mar., 1914.. 72,812 124 p.c.= 80,424 14,455 707,890
Jiist 10 years ago the first report was issued, the
co. having - been incorporated on August 11. 1903.
to amalgamate the old Mount Lvell and North Lyell
cos., each eo. getting 600,000 shares and the North
£140,000 5 p.c debentures in addition. On the
whole, things have gone' remarkably Well with the
big concern ; the first div. was paid 10 years ago
next month, and including that fifteen-pence, 30s. od.
per 205.. shares has been distributed. Yet the co.
has lost so much of its old punch that in the past
four years only 6s. 9d. of that lot has been forth-
coming, though some of that shrinkage was due to
the fire of a couple of years ago. Apart from that
temporary trouble,, the co. has been struck by two
that look permanent. It isn’t a fair comparison to
take the results of the present eo.’s first term,
because it hadn’t then got into its stride Come
down 12 months, and consider this comparison of the
cost of producing blister per ton of ore:—
March, ’O5. March. ’l4.
Mining ... .. i/n.91 10/1.94 x
Smelting.. .. 6/5.13 8/10.59
Converting/' .. 1/7.35 1/3.48
13/0.39 20/4.01


ƒgf
BEST WAY
to ensure
when ordering* Conveyor
Belting, Hose, Packings,
etc.. Is to specify
7 DUNLOP
MINING » ENGINEERING j
GOODS -
You can then rely on LONG
SERVICE.
TENDERS and SAMPLES SUBMITTED.
220 page Catalogue on application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne. Sydney,
Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane,
Wellington, Christchurch-i
J-H-C
The first cost of “Pioneer” leather belting per
unit of work is lower than that of any other power
transmission belting. This fact is recognised by
the keenest, closest and best-informed engineers and
buyers of machinery supplies throughout Australia
to-day. Consider just the cold, bare matter of price
—disregard reliability', efficiency, economy, endur-
ance, and what c/o you pay for? It is the actual
work done, and that is determined by the power
delivered from the prime mover to your machines.
“Pioneer” leather belting does your work at less
cost because it has the required strength and elas-
ticity that will transmit every ounce of your power —
will direct the whole power to drive your machines.
“Pioneer” is made from the strongest centre cuts of
flawless Australian ox hides, which are tanned in
our own tannery and built up with best materials
and workmanship along lines that our 56 years’
specialising in belt building has taught us is best..
“Pioneer” leather belting is made good to “make 1
good.” It can do your work for less—will you
let it? Ask our nearest office for help on your
Pioneer transmission problems. “Pioneer” is made
only by J. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd., Pioneer Works,.
117 York Street, Sydney (opp. Q. V. Markets) ; and!
sold in Victoria by Geo. Russell Pty., Ltd., Flin-
ders Street, Melbourne; i n South Australia by J„
McKcll, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide; in Queens-
land by Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd., Brisbane;
in W. Australia by Horace Summers, Howard Street,
Perth; in Broken Hill by Geo. C. Dempster,
Argent Street.*
* * • *
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced concrete construction should write fn>- par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used bv the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Win. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The liardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Ilecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
proolem ; they have installed 64 of them, and say
'‘the liardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold oj.” If
they say this of the. mills, it should be worth the-
while of mine managers here to inquire about them,
•he Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are-
the sole representatives for them in the Common-
wealth, and will be glad to forward particulars.* [1
o* * *
Extract from Financial News, London, July 12*
1911 : ‘‘The annual report of the Colonial Mutual
Lite Assurance Society affords abundant evidence-
that “Forward” is still the watchword of the-
directors; for in every direction admirable progress:
has been achieved.”*
* * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE may bo laid above or
underground, and stands exposure to all kinds of:
weather and changes of temperature without deteriora-
tion. Descriptive catalogue free upon application-
THE AUSTRALIAN WOOD PIPE CO. LTD 57/
York Street, Sydney (Head Office).*
Amongst orders received since the New Year bv
our Brisbane Branch are the following Suction anil!
towns Gas Engines: Geo. Stupart, Esq. ; Maryborough,.
49 b.h.p., for Electric Lighting; Mackay Harbor
Board, 43 b.h.p., for Stone Crushing; Dr. Voss, Rock-
hampton, two—each 17 b.h.p., for Electric Lighting ;;
R. IT. Treweeke, Goondiwindi, 17 b.h.p., for Sheep-
shearing ; Mrs. Devaney, Gladstone, 13 b.h.p., for
Electric Lighting ; whilst at the present time they are
erecting a 73 b.h.p. Suction Gas Engine and Plant
for Messrs. Harris and Co., Rockhampton, for Electric
Lighting purposes. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., Mel-
bourne, Sydney and Brisbane.*
The highest returns for all kinds of residues are
obtained from Harrington’s Ltd., of 386 George-
street, Sydney, who buy large quantities of jewellers’
sweeps, polishings, handwash and lemel, process-
workers’ residues, plating baths and any other-
materials containing gold, silver or platinum." Assavs;
are executed for jewellers within two or three hours,,
and prospectors and others are assured of immediate-
attention. All kinds of analytical and metallurgical
work can be executed promptly, and advice given on
all branches of industrial chemistry and metallurgy.
The whole of the work is directed by a qualified
analyst and metallurgist from Johnson & Sons, Lon-
don, Assavers and Refiners to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, the Council of India, etc., etc. Direct
shipments of large parcels of sweeps, residues, ores,
etc., can be sent direct to Johnson & Sons by arrange-
ment.*
* * * *
J. Malcolm New,man. Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
CLAUDE BRISTOW, Assayer and Analytical
Chemist. Sampling supervised. 93 Pitt Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagle
Street, Svdnej'.*
* » * *
Tn addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and!
Cast Iron Pipes, Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Pro-
prietary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo-
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.*
* * * *
11.M.A.5. Australia, now in Australian waters;,
is fitted entirely with Babcock and Wilcox' Water-
tube Boilers, similar to the H.M.S. New Zea-
land and other Dreadnoughts recently built for tliq
Admiralty.*
* * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtains'
Collison it Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, L
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write ws f' an< *
ventors’ Guide.* or In-
* * *
Assayers, Mine Managers and -PubS’’ *
to H. B. Silrkrberg and Co., ECTOns write
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for p&ft' - Connell Street,
mining requisites and scienjdiVg - -culars concerning
disc pulverisers to 200 •bV apparatus. Braun’s
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s astft v ->d sample grinders to
1/13000 grain; prospector balances sensitive to
grain; weight; pocket trjr' *’ balances to 1/1000
furnaces; Morgan’s ,sits ’ gasoline combination
_________ ibles : chemicals ; etc.*
CO
CO
ui
.c
X
CO
3
o*
"8
v.
8
■8
C
8
CO
o
g
}routr jhout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blastin* elat|
Dynamit e
Safety' Fuse
Detonafikrs
Cartridge^
’Phone
CITY—B 332.
Poldi Steel
FOR MOTOR-CAR PARTS.
Clarence Street, Sydney.
That’s a difference of (say) 7s. 3d. per ton; and
on the 163,513 tons of ore put through the furnaces
last half-year it means £59,250 snipped off the
profits. Of course, the co. isn't taking the increases
without a fight: it is, for instance, spending a heap
of money on the Mount Margaret hvdro-electric
scheme, into which it has already dropped £92,200.
But this is not going to seriously affect the cost of
mining, and the mining cost is over ss. per ton more
than it was 10 years ago. As to other costs, the
plant will have a lot of work to do in checking the
upward movement, though it may reasonably be ex-
pected to do a bit more than that.
And then there is the shrinkage in the value of
tlie ore. Take this comparison:—
Mount’Lyell. North Lyell.
Mar.,’o4. Mar.,’l4. Mar.,’o4. Mar.,’l4.
Copper, p.c. . . 125 0.48 6.41 5.96
Silver, oz. .. 2.17 1.85 2.29 1.24
Cold, oz. . . 0.06 004 0.005 0.005
The shrinkage in the copper value, of the Lyell ore
is the most serious matter, because of the half-year’s
total input to the furnaces, 103,209 tons was from
bj'ell ; from the North 59,491 tons were drawn. If
the ore treated last half-year had been of the same
copper value as that handled 10 years ago 1061 tons
more copper would have been available, and at £6O
per ton that means £63,600. Add that £63,600
lo the £59,250 already arrived at as the extra cost
nowadays, and one can understand why, in spite of
the new superphosphate works, the gross profits are
1-72,000 as against the £150,000 or more averaged
a few years ago.
The most cheerful feature of the business is the
fine reserves of ore still left in the mines. No esti-
mate has been made this half-year; but it can be
assumed that the six months’ development has about
counterbalanced extraction. The present position
may, therefore, be fairly stated by last half-year’s
figures as to reserves:—
Quantity. Copper. Silver. Gold.
„ ~ tons. p.c. oz. oz.
Mount Lyell . . 2,202,335 0.53 1.96 .027
North Lyell . . 1,086,112 6.00 1.33 .0.05
Since the incorporation of the present co. in 1903
~’ e " Nll ". ore l |;| s been handled to produce the
oOs. 9d. of dividends already mentioned:—
Quantity. Copper. Silver. Gold.
~ . T ~ tons. p.c. oz. oz.
Mount Lyell .. 2,579,165 0.80 1.94 0.060
North Lyell .. 1,167,728 6.06 1.51 0.004
Treating a trifle less than two tons of Lvell ore to
North ore, the net profit last half-year was
r! ®t deducting the last payments on account
o the North Lyell fire. That means an almost exact
I s - P er , ton - Assuming a similar profit from the
1,167,728 tons of North ore and 2,200,000 tons of
Lyell ore, there is £1,262,000 for the shareholders
that is helped by correspond-
„ , p o "t; s trom the superphosphate business. As a
matter of fact, partly as the result of the recent
thf b result n nf 16 S ' • Al n ’ S , Uper ' trade - and partl y as
tl,p a K«cultural expansion in Westralia,
the chemical side-line should be
'- s o rmn i the f U T tnr n Then there are the additional
° f Ly< ? ] ore ’ from which and from other
tl» °'' e consiclerab le profits may be wrung by
, ? fl° tat]on Process, which no doubt will be intni-
exeees rTr,- Add , £345 - 080 of liquid assets in
excess of inabilities, plus the chemical stocks re-
cos Sen anl w'th art by the £ 100.544 invested in other
m’-o thJ 1 ' COpper averaging the past half-year’s
It Ton non n PP , eai '? 1° be EOme thing well above
£lw 00,000 ahead of the shareholders. There were
amo^ rC thi fi 31 lot’ 289 ’| 20 shares ' Cut UP £1,700,000
among this lot, and you get 265. 6d. apiece • and
10 ye e ars re to n V't ate °/ ?? ingr U will take approximately
t .V £ et out the ore taken into account in
i! thf m a l l0 t n .' Shares are worth about 255. 6d.
the market; and on the foregoing figures that
quotation isn t outrageous either way.
B. H. Prop. Block 14 Co.~This is the
poor relation in the Broken Hill family And it
The B UC H a p b "n ffht 00 ’ «« firet offspring of
towarris +i That huge concern started work
towaids the north end of its leases where the big out-
ore P fmm’ Bl<^ k 14 had a continuation of it. It got
ore from where the grass roots would have been if
been an J- But good ore at surface doesn’t
always mean trood ore at depth—or any other sort
ore - for that matter. The B. IT. Prop soon got
through the shoot at the northern end, but it had
t haf f.nl th Ck u ha n Ve *7°, other leas e s from which
it has got the saddle-shaped shoot at greater depth This
other company had only one block, and for seven
a e fP st h;IR had to scratch in the upper levels for
ain mg. Overlooked carbonates, a splendid ore,
have been the principal source of revenue, and ft
is amazing how well the supply has kept up- to
March, 1913, 6992 tons: to Sept., 1913, 6957 tons;
m the past half-year 6513 tons. Unfortunately the
harder the co. has to scratch the heavier are the
expenses, and for the six months, though 17.297 tons
of sulphides were sold to the Junction North, the
workiner profit was only £5494. The question of
P i V Yu’ a m ill to treat the sulphides was gone into
ahr ■ tbree Tears ago, but it was decided that there
was not enough of that ore to justify the outlay:
the total then was supposed to be about 220,000 tons
and it has been costing lately over £1 per ton to
mine and deliver it. There are two classes of
shares—ordinaries, 125,000; prefs., 30,000 The
m-efs. were issued at a time when things looked very
blue, and they take 10 p.c., besides getting the same
amount Der share in other dividends as the ordin-
aries. During the half-year the co. paid one Is.
dividend : total, including the first cut put on the
prefs.’ plate, £11,500. This reduced the surplus of
Slo - * a tr ifl e> hut they still stand at
•~/4,h08. Given fair metal prices the co. will hang'
out for a few years, yet, though profits depend
very largeiy on the extremely unreliable carbonate
supply.
* * * *
Mount Boppy (N.S.W.) issues a hopeful
leport for 1913. Its mill ran 278 days, treating
64,1 62 tons and a large quantity of secondary pro-
ducts for a total revenue from all sources of
£107,722, representing the value of 25,3830 z fine
gold. Expenses took £92,118, leaving a profit of
£15,604. of which, after paying off a debit bal-
ance from 1912, there remained £lO,lOB for dis-
posal. £1332 is charged to income tax, £5048 for
depreciation and £420 for expenses in connection
with the recent issue of pref. shares. The 10 p.c.
(cumulative) on these called for £1506, leaving
£lBO2 to carry forward. Ore reserves are estimated
at 205.387 tons, blit in a mine of this kind the
average value can only be guessed at. The develop-
ment of lateral makes of ore in the lower levels has
raised the hope that pay ore will extend upwards into
virgin ground through practically all the levels.
Cope’s Creek Dredging Co. (N.S.W.)
closed its half-year with a profit of only £44 7 S 5d
The balance forward is £3558, including £2soo'on
fixed deposit. The yield-31 tons of black tin-was
about the same as during the previous six months,
}'L the pnce r^ eived . f , or the ore was reduced by
£2B per ton. ihe shrinkage of £869 in receiiits is
due mainly to the slump in the metal. There are
scores of dredging claims that will pay dividends
wdh tin oxide at £l4O per ton that become mpro
fitable when it is only £9O. Co. has another pro-
perty under consideration. 1
* * * *
Vegetable Creek (N.S.W.) has sunk it*
new shaft to 107 ft the bottom is basalt and re
quires blasting. Sluicing during the week ending
May 9 produced four tons of black tin. If thls can
be kept going the co. may receive from £l5 non in
£20,000 in 12 months. The maricet vafee is
£13,000 (130-000 at 25.) but even with the deb
to the ground landlord .paid off, it will take a year or
two to rake in £13,000. All the tin produced Lv
not be subject to the 20 p.e. royalty, but wdeie
debt is unpaid, dividends are in the distance unless
a special arrangement is made with the original nrn
pnetors. From Chandler’s shaft there appears nh»
a tendency for the wash to split off into two channel
which may come together again.
* * * *
Zinc Corporation, N.S.W., has hit unon
a new method of estimating its monthly profit l rt
simply lumps the price of lead and spelter at
and calls this a combined average. During Anril thl
actual combined rate for the two metals e
.*«♦ •»*««. •» Corp„7X7”S W a ' e d ”
its estimate to some slight extent. -During April
3826 tons of lead concentrates and 6805 tons of zinc
concentrates returned £45,906, or a profit (esti-
mated) of £13,143. Compared with this the Amal-
gamated Zinc’s profit of £9562 from 46,770 tons of
tailing's seems disappointing. On combined products
the Zinc Corporation makes from ss. to 6s. per ton
on tailings alone; the Amalgamated Zinc a trifle over
4s. per ton.
Wo. 3., alias Wolfram, plus Bi., alias
Bismuth, is the equation standing for Block 14
Torrington; also for a debt of £5OOO lent to tide
the co. over the constructive stage. There is a nice little
ring in the bismuth world, and . a better one in the
wolfram camp. Therefore it makes the dealer keen
to see the German Australian Metal Co. taking up
the Torrington. Costs at the mine were 9s. 5d., but
have been shaded to 6s. As co. so far lias had to
let about 35 p.c. of the mineral contents of the ore
go to the dump the plan has had to be shaken into
better shape by Askin Nicholas. If he can decide
who got the £l5O commission for fixing up that
£5OOO loan, and segregate the items that swell up
management expenses to £1603, against £6826 ex-
pended on working account, he will deserve well of
the holders of a lot of the 150,000 shares represent-
ing the hot air blown into this diminutive show.
Pulganbar Quicksilver (N.S.W.), which
was mentioned in B. 7/5/’l4 as having put off its
clean-up for a couple of months, thus making three
months since the previous one, explains why. The
new plant, which was imported front California when
the local one proved a blank, consists mainly of
furnaces and condensers, and to make : the clean-up
the men have to enter the condensers. Before they
can do that the fires have to put out, and the
whole thing allowed to cool off, which takes any-
thing up to a couple of weeks. After the clean-up
the fires have to be relighted, and the affair takes a
while to heat up. So that a cleaning up more often
than every three months means a big waste of time.
Co. is said to have 20,000 tons of ore in sight, worth
2 p.c. and over. As 4 p.c, stuff is made to pay in
California with the same plant, the co. reckons on
profits iii spite of unfriendly remarks.
Sydney is credited with having got hold
of a molybdenite show in the wilds beyond Bairns-
dale, Gippsland (Vic.). The mineral is in lamina-
tions of a quartz lode 2ft. wide which courses beside
a dyke, but it is fine-grained stuff alongside a lot of
the Queensland molybdenite. Other places in Victoria
have tried mining the mineral, but the formations
were too patchy to pay.
An analysis of Mount Morgan ore reserves
and outputs leads to pretty definite conclusions. Thus
the report of .July, 1911, gives the reserves as
follows:
Hight-grade, assaying 31 p.c. copper
and Bdwt. gold=7ss. per ton, tak-
ing copper at £6O 2,070,500 tons
Low-grade, assaying 3 p.c. copper
and 21dwt. gold=46s. per ton,.. 2,070,500 tons
The average grade being 60s. per ton.
These old figures were evidently conservative, as the
report of May, 1912, gives:—
High-grade, 3£ p.c. copper lOdwt.
gold=B4s. per ton . . . . . . 1,499,000 tons
Low or medium, 21 p.c. copper sdwt.
gold=sls. per ton 2,027,000 tons
Average grade, 665. per ton.
May, ’l3—High-grade, 1,365,000 tons.
Medium, 1,982,200 tons.
These figures are republished without alteration in the
report of November. 1913. It will be noted that the
latest reserves consisted of two of high to three of
medium grade, and the average value was 665. per
on, copper at £6O. As Tiie Bulletin has pointed
out on several occasions, the grade of ore being
treated is not an average of the high- and medium-
grade reserves, but approaches more nearly the high-
grade average. During the last four-weekly period
over 19,000 tons wore treated, averaging (allowing
tor copper losses) about 3 6 p.c. of copper and B.6dwt.
gold; or 795. to 80s. per ton. Perhaps the run of
the stope ore cannot be regulated, but it looks as
it the management is mincing values to pay for its
big constructional and other outlays. The difference
in the four weeks’ run if average-grade ore were
treated would have been a little matter of £15,000
or approximately £200,000 a year, aptly enough a
sum equal to recent annual dividends.
i s Pt'ospecting for a payable
oie-body in the old Paisely mine at Muldiva (N.Q.).
Jhe loOft. level produced some rich ore, so it has
been repaired and resampled for pay ore among the
n A 1 re a en i report states that a seam of good
stuff has already been met with. The railway receipts
for April amounted to £4391, which compares un-
favorably with £7995 in April, 1913, when the
smelter was at work. The profit from the railway
has, during the past few years, been high in propoi-
tion to revenue; in fact, it is this profit that has
enabled Ghillagoe to pay its debenture interest. The
railway brought in a revenue of £100,949 for 12
months ended March 31.
* * * *
0 Charters Towers the Papuan Brilliant
and yictoria crushed 80 tons for an average return
i . • , . * As this crushing* was
111 Slnkln ff 011 the cross reef below No 4
-lound thn P t Pe f«' S f° irldicatf : a Payable block of
„iound, that is, of course, if the levels now imm
opened at 120 ft. below No. 4 prove the reef to be
new level [sVoft 7? 6 ver t tical depth of tke
ew level is 2401 t. The patchy nature of the Moons-
-tone formation and its cross reefs is notorious but
the local market will not remain indifferent to’ rich
crushings, even froin a patchy locality.
~, or the first four months of this year
Brilliant Cental P h° dUCe f £77 ’ 612 worth of metal,
mujiant Central has cut a small vein of stone in
its crosscut 90ft. below No. 7 level. The old Brilliant
fem l! novv . ln , the hands of 90 tributors, which sys-
ton seems to be popular on the Towers—morf a
matter of necessity than choice. 6 a
* * * *
nJ? aiiy F eaks (Q ’) is worked by Mount
“ 984 tom V royalt ? of 2s ‘ 6d ‘ P«‘ ton; so the
13,984 tons of ore sent away during the first tbrnn
Many S p°eak s he co ear ’H' e “ r ® ven , ue . of £1 ?48 to the
copper, .nd .TSTVS
■»“ o»t „ the ~i
. I S< ? n , th . i Australian Oil Wells Co Ins
SXfS « *
oil man, returns from America next’ week—the drdb
being * already kfirSVort Addalie '^TtS
Melbourne concern with a total capital of £3OOO of
20 000 sh set 25 - 000 one-shilling shades ’an d
20,000 shares are offered at Is. Of theTinnn »
raised the vendors get £2lO nnri 80
penses are “estimated’’ at £ 2 3o°;
for solicitors, registration and printing At
i ik“on'«e7".™;2i : f 7s °, l ° “'lc'-elop 10
,ph,„Cn th ,i,s°“g Tarsus?? a sgu
01 )- C a > by Moffatt -Virtiie cost, with casing- for 3500 ft.,
t-oOO: a fine reduction on earlier costs for plant,
therefore the £750 will buy about a third of a rig
and leave nothing for boring charges. The business
cant be looked at under £lO,OOO.
. the fulfilment of its life Nuggettv
Aja.xy Daylesford (Vic.), has paid out only £6lO
in directors lees, while shareholders have pocketed
profits of £39, 1 50 out of £102,432 gold won. Vic-
torians won’t pay decent Hoard fees because thev
Know that the run of men who cling to mining want
a lot more than 10s. a sitting for their work. They
also regard the directors who don’t watch the market
more or less as asses. The Bulletin can’t say if
the Nuggetty directors flourished out of the Nuggetty
market but if they didn’t their future chances look
blu , e - to- drew practically a blank at No. 7 level,
and the flat make at No. 6 carried none of the riches
of the formations higher up. The middle lode there
as well has proved to be poor stuff. This has meant
?70fi ir„ P i°y, lde i bas , h , t 0 sink a crosscut at
i , t Last theJode should soon be cut, but uayles-
ford has never shone much at depth, which those who
.look tor a final spurt must remember.
Victoria’s gold yield for the first four
months of this year was 135,7400 z., or 79020 z. less
than lor the same term in 1913. This drop is traced
to the petering out of the Cathcart mines, and the
easing up of work at Ballarat and Bendigo.
* * * *
„connection with the Goldfields Water
i n P nnn’ooo alg u° rlle r J V st been P rovided with a
10,000,000-gallon storage tank: and the Minister for
Woiks and a large party met in it the other after-
T" a " d bad '-''a and drank its health, and the health
of Chief Waterworks Engineer O’Brien, who had put
some new ideas of hip own into it. The tank will
give the held from four to six davs’ water, so there
shouldn t be any serious danger now of short sup-
plies and mine stoppages. A bigger storage was
getting a painful necessity, on account of the many
troubles from corrosion experienced along the 350-mil’e
pipe-track. Originally it was reckoned that the
track would be good for 21 years; it is only 21 years
since it was laid, yet the corrosion is so
bad that it is the chief worry of O’Brien’s life.
Already he has spent about £50,000 on a plant
for lime-treating the Mundaring water and in
summit tanks and other , trifles, arid he savs that he
ought to at once spend another £lOO,OOO in opening
up the worst section of the conduit, overhauling it]
and replacing it where necessary.
Marvel Loch (W.A.) has got another
option in tow. This time it has hitched on to the
Bell Bird, a lease situated about a- mile north-west
of the Bullfinch Prop. A big ironstone formation
has been opened up in the property, but despite
occasional reports of rich assays, the average appears
to be low—too low, this paper fears, for the Marvel
Loch to make money out of it.
Tindal’s (W.A.) is in trouble again. This
time a number of hands have been sacked on account
of the ore not being amenable to ordinary battery
treatment. A trial parcel has been sent to one of the
ltalgoorlie sulphide plants for reduction, but in view
of tlie low-average grade of the mine it is a poor
look-out for shareholders if profits cannot be earned
by simple amalgamation and subsequent cyanidation
of the mill residues. The necessity for anv further
treatment would mean the death-knell of what un-
fortunately has hitherto proved a most disappoint-
ing and ill-fated venture.
* * *
Westralia’s minerals, other than gold,
exported for the quarter ended March were valued at
£53,552. Copper accounted for £6439 ; tin, £12,500 ;
silver, £63(0 ; silver-lead, £11,548; and sundries
£16,695. Value of exports since inception of the
industry is £3,498,613, of which nearly two-thirds
is made up of copper and tin.
* * * *
A recent estimate computes the number
of rock drills operating oil the Rand at 5645. The
type of machine now attracting most attention is the
■small hammer drill using hollow steel through which
water under pressure is introduced A lot of exneri-
mental work has been done with detachable bits, with,
on the whole, fair results. The average stamp duty
on the field is now reckoned to be nine tons per day
This high average has, it is said, been achieved not
solely by coarse screening and fine grinding, but by
gieatly increasing the falling weights of the stamps.
In the middle ’9o’s the duty of five tons per day was
applauded, r.ow there are erected all over the Rand
nearly 1400 stamps of over 17501 b. weight; and of
these close on 1200 are at work.
Sons of Gwalia’s report for 1013 shows
a net profit of £66,277, as compared with £59 493
for 1912. After distributing £65,000 in dividends, a
balance of £12,501 js. carried forward, as against
£12,523 brought in. The ore opened up during the
1— months is stated to have fully maintained the
tonnage, and average value of the ore reserves, which
are estimated to be equal to 3 years 10 months’
supply tor the mill. Working costs, which increased
in 1912 largely on account of the hardness of the
ore, were reduced by Is. 6d. per ton to 225. Bd. dur-
ing 1913. A further reduction in the current year
is anticipated. As regards developments at depth the
report says that at the No. 19 level the main ore
body has been proved to have very considerable in-
creased in length as compared with the levels imme-
diately above and with the exception of a few short
lengths of low-grade material the ore exposed is of
profitable grade. A winze sunk from No. 19 to No
20 level at 915 ft. south of the shaft is stated to have
Proved the continuation of the shoot to this depth.
Edna May Central (W.A.) now hopes to
bave -ts new mill going early in July. About 1600
to 1800 tons are expected to be treated monthly.
Managing-director Morgans states that the mine is
much more valuable than at time of flotation, but,
according to the opinion of an expert on the spot
anyone who buys shares on this tip is taking part
iii a pure gamble, with the odds greatly against him.
Ihe mill should soon settle this point. Meantime
sinking is being continued below 75ft., and other
development is in progress.
* * * *
From Westons (W.A.) : Myrtle East and
Lana May East have been optioned by a speculative
syndicate. Both leases have been prospected in
shallow ground and small crushings from the Myrtle
have averaged 12dwt. over the plates. The ore, how-
ever, was probably picked Edna May is having
-ome difficulty in sinking on account of hard ground
a " d ieavy water. The country has changed a bit in
the bottom, and probably this has helped to ease the
market.... Areas have been pegged here, there and
them 6I A 3 T-H he xl'm 6 ° f getting rid of some of
tnem in Adelaide, Melbourne or Sydney.
New Lyell Consols, Kadina. is the resur-
r,?.'?ted , L , V ? 11 1 Consols transferred from Queenstown
(las.) /to S.A. But it hasn’t settled down quite pro-
perly to Aorkes Peninsula mining wavs, and so was
given a spell until new plant could be installed
I his seems also to have brought J. Q. Matthews on
the scene as mine manager. His chance lies in find-
ing a copper formation intersected east by the
diamond drill. Co. still indulges in the luxury o£
a London office, which is waste of what little money
it does cost. The mine wants more cash and a
ton or two of luck to give back all the cash ic has
swallowed.


WHY ACID STOMACHS ARE
DANGEROUS.
■SCIENTIFIC REPORTS, May Acid
iin the stomach is dangerous and frequently
.fatal, because acid from its corrosive nature
;has a natural tendency to destroy the
mucous lining of the stomach itself. No
.one intentionally swallows hydrochloric
;aeid, but it is often present in large quanti-
ties as the result of food fermentation in
ttte stomach resulting from the chemical
action which so frequently follows the eat-
ing of the daintiest and most tasty foods or
the indulgence in any form of alcoholic
-stimulants, including beer, wine, liqueurs,
etc. This fermentation causes pain, un-
easiness and discomfort, because of the acid
•which burns like a red-hot iron, and the
formation of gas which distends the stomach,
causing shortness of breath and palpitation
of the heart. The trouble being entirely
due to the unnatural condition of stomach
contents, and not in any way to the fault
cf the stomach itself, physicians have
adopted with marvellous success the plan
cf neutralising the acid and stopping the
fermentation by means of half a teaspoonful
of simple bisurated magnesia taken in a
little water immediately after eating or
whenever discomfort is felt. The imme-
diate relief following the use of Bisurated
Magnesia is striking proof of the contention
of medical men that failure to digest food
properly is almost invariably due to the
acid condition of food contents, and in no
way the fault of the stomach or yital
organs.*
FARMER’S
HAIRDRESSING ROOMS
FOR LADIES.
Farmers, Specialists in Ladies’ Hairdressing,
are fully acquainted with the latest-style
coiffures, and their achievements in this par-
ticular branch are winning widespread renown.
The rooms ensure absolute privacy, and are
splendidly appointed with the most modern
devices. The various departments include
Hairdressing, Haircutting, Shampooing, Singe-
ing, Marcel Waving, Scalp and Face Massage,
Electric Treatment, Manicuring, Chiropody,
etc.
Appointments for social functions can be
made by ’phone or letter.
FARMER’S, Sydney
PITT, MARKET & GEORGE STREETS.
BUCHANAN’S
Black. ($1 White.
mamtsh
wk
A GRAND SPIRIT
“ Black & White ” is indeed a “ grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, May 18, 1914.
My Dear Arini, —
Governor Strickland, shadowed by liis new
A.D.C. Wallis, and further supported by the
presence and attendance (it’s about 6ft. long)
of otlicial secretary Budge, has been career-
ing through the fertile Gloucester district.
The party motored all the way, and plunged
madly through a river crossing near Rowdon
Vale, with the help of a bullock team.
Two of these patient beasts were yoked to
the jibbing car, and dragged it in breathless
triumph out of the mud. The country there-
abouts looks a garden. Given a handy team
of oxen to render first-aid in time of trouble,
a run through Gloucester and the Manning
River paddocks is a fine, healthy outing this
weather.
The Admiralty lady pattered through the
rain to open a flower show at Gore Hill on
Saturday afternoon. The proceeds of the
show will be handed over to the North Syd-
ney Hospital, which is vigorously sending
round the hat for more cash. The poor old
hat is travelling fast these days.
The London papers have respectfully
alluded to the new Governor-General as a
follower in the artistic stride of Victoria’s
ex-Governor Carmichael. Australians are
forthwith expected to gape with astonish-
ment when the Munro-Ferguson unpacks a
few samples of Raeburn’s art, and bangs
them up for public inspection in Melbourne.
Ellen Terry’s still picturesque and now
pathetic personality was met on arrival here
by members of the Actors’ Association. This
band of enthusiastic admirers allowed the
famous Englishwoman to snatch 40 winks or
so before it again gathered her to its bosom
in the Australia drawing-room. The meeting
was late in the afternoon. President George
Titheradge, secretary Walter Bentley, and 11.
It. Roberts were in charge. Bentley had
decorated an illuminated address to the great
Ellen, and contrived to put so much Aus-
tralian color into the trimmings that the only
thing he missed was a boomerang. A charm-
ing thumbnail (it was larger as a matter of
fact) sketch of Ellen as Mistress Ann Page,
was surmounted by a picturette of the same
lady when she wore a pair of wings as Tuck
—her first engagement.
Beatrice Day handed the veteran actress
a gigantic floral trophy, then went down
on her knees and kissed one of the lady’s
very pretty hahds. At this Ellen jumped
up, and chased Beatrice across the room.
“No, no!” says Miss Day. “Yes. yes, I
will,” says Miss Terry, and kisses Beatrice
heartily on her cheeks. This done, the
company drew nearer in a friendly circle.
“Be seated, good friends,” says Ellen, “and
here’s a chair for a Nice Lady,” pushing
forward a seat for Violet Paget, whose
attractive appearance evidently caught the
leading lady’s eye. The company then wor-
, shipped in silence at the Shrine while Tith.
. made a few remarks to its listening ear.
Tom Moore will be remembered as usual
rj j>n his birthday anniversary, May 28, by an
iriysh ballad concert in our huge Town Barn.
was born, as everyone tries to look as
iif fhe knew, though he doesn’t, in 1780, in
Ditbki,!). His fond mamma —formerly Anas-
tasia <Codd —evidently considered him an un-
r usual infant, for she had his name and age
, doftqdVjown on a crown piece which she kept
. and -no doubt wore as her best Sunday
i brooch. Ireland’s popular national poet
• was taught for a while, and possibly birched,
■by a pedagogue named Samuel Whyte, who
had, some 30 years before, caned one Richard
Brinsley Sheridan as “an incorrigible
,-dunce.”
The Commonwealth Literary Pension Fund
-.-committee has mentioned the name of the
,late G. B. Barton’s widow as eligible for a
i-dole of 10s. a week. G.B. was a brother
Jof Justice Edmund Barton, and a persistent
digger in the chaotic early history of
N.S.W. Ten shillings a week isn’t an
.extravagant pension, but it may help to keep
the wolf out of a few literary backyards
.during the present year of grace.
Mrs. Essie (Jenyns) Wood came back
England the other day. Innumerable
•fi'Wfuls. including the combined weight of the
Newcastle Kindergarten Committee, have
been falling on her neck, at frequent inter-
vals, since her arrival. In fact, she has
; hardly had the use of her own neck for 30
.consecutive minutes since her return.
Dr. Herbert Moran, who was recently wed
to Miss Eva Mann, used to be a mighty kick
on the muddied football field in his Uni.
days. He hangs out his sign in Balmain.
The bride is the younger treasure of
a wealthy mamma, who is known as an easy
mark for mendicant charities in this hamlet.
In case this paragraph should do her the
ill-turn of sending more mendicants her way,
I beg to add that the lady has recently hard-
ened her heart and decided never to give
another copper so long as she lives. There
is no truth in this statement, but I make it
out of kindness.
Sailor Deane, R.N., who usually tramps
the deck of H.M.A.S. Tingira (firmly teth-
ered to the heaving bosom of a Rose Bay
anchorage), has been up-country on leave.
He had the bad luck to break his collar-
bone and put a final damper on his holiday.
Till the injured part is glued together again,
Mr. Seton, R.N., paces the training ship as
first lootenant, in place of the absent and
broken mariner.
The Amateur Orchestral Society launched
a new composition for orchestra and
piano the other evening. Miss Mirrie Solo-
mon, the clever youngster responsible for
this ambitious effort, is one of our most
precocious composers. Some day I expect
she’ll earn a neat chaplet of laurel leaves
to twine round her dark tresses, for her tire-
less pursuit of original harmony.
The Girl Aid, who is the petticoated dupli-
cate of the Boy Scout, has just been patted
on the back (with the hand —not with the
big strap) and handed the Rewards of Merit
by the Strickland Ladyship. This event
took place in the sub-royal home at Rose
Bay. The Girl Aid is trained to save life
“by land or water.” So I take it she is a
first-class swimmer, dives like a duck, and can
gallop into the thick of battle and drag out
the wounded while the enemy is too para-
lysed to decide whether it’s been bitten by
sugar ants, or assaulted by infant Amazons.
Dr. George Lane-Mullins is one of the en-
thusiasts who prods the Girl Aid to go on
doing her Duty (with a big, big D) in time
of Peace, so that she may not hide under her
bed or conceal her light beneath a bushel,
when war’s alarms shake this easy-going con-
tinent, but may rather resemble a city set
on a hill which cannot be hid, and be a
ministering angel, and make a cool breeze
with her wings on the fevered brow of Pri-
vate Smith who was wounded at the battle
of Boggabri.
Solicitor Parr, who is habitually Mayor
of Auckland, is taking his annual holiday
in this hamlet. I fancy he is a goffer in
his spare moments. He can knock the ball
about the Ivillara links these soft grey morn-
ings without going out of his beat, for he
camps in that top-lofty village.
The Maoriland Government Tourist
Agency will move, when it is fully rested,
from its present quarters near the G.P.O.
to the new offices of the Union Steamship
Co. in George-street. The latter palatial
premises are so new that the foundation of
mother-earth is at present being scooped out
to make a smooth bed for bricks and mortar.
The site is the corner of Grosvenor and
George streets. A few months hence, barring
strikes, slumps and sundries, the storeyed
Union building will visibly climb the air
thereabouts, just as did the Tower of Babel.
As the M.L. agency won’t move out of its
old address till September, 1915, this news
will be quite fresh in 16 months time.
Otto Frind, F.R.G.S., of Vancouver,
arrived here the other day from Maoriland,
after prolonged interviews with the sharpest
points of Mount Cook. Mr. Frind is an
inveterate Alpine climber who hungers for
glaciers as small boys crave for bulls’ eyes
and birds’ eggs. He can’t see an Alp with-
out rushing at it Open-mouthed. He collects
dried and stuffed Alps. He brought from
the land of snows a Swiss guide, who had
experience in Alberta and British Columbia.
The man from Vancouver was clambering
over one side of Mount Cook (M.L.) when
the unfortunate English tourist, Mr. King,
was overwhelmed by an avalanche on the
other side. You never know where the aval-
anche will slide. A section of humanity is inor-
dinately fond of walking up frozen peaks,
which were never intended for anything but
goats and scenic effects. Possibly it feels
the same exaltation in being frost-bitten for
pleasure as the house-fly seems to experience
when it walks on a dining-room ceiling in-
stead of sitting down, right side up, on the
sugar basin. The Vancouver peak climber
goes back to his native freeze on June 1.
About December 1 winter will begin there.
Engineer George Disney, from Bengal, is
spending his furlough hereabouts. He
reached Melbourne with a ballast of intro-
ductions from ex-Governor Carmichael. Just
now he is peering round things of interest in
N.S.W. Newcastle harbor works, etc.,
gripped his attention for a day or so. He
hurries off to Maoriland for a geyser tour
before repacking his helmet , for India’s
curried strand.
The Bush Book Club will give an account
of its goings on during the past year on
May 20. This gathering takes place under
the vice-regal roof, with the Strickland lady-
ship in the chair.
Mrs. John Waugh lias invited her numer-
ous friends and acquaintances to partake of
light refreshments and the company of Prime
Minister Joe Cook. This event will occur
on June 1 at the Queen Victoria Club.
The youngish Mr. Cox, who now sits as
second in command in the Sydney office of
the Orient Co., with general-manager David
Reid on the higher stool, used to be one of
the smart young skippers in that service.
The co. sent him from tramping the high
seas to help the expanding business on this
side. So he now wears a pen behind his
ear instead of a compass.
Mary Grant Bruce is mentioned in rhe
Otway’s passenger list for Melbourne. Mary,
who was on the Age staff for some years,
found time to pen some piquant stories for
youngsters in her leisure moments.
Ward, Lock and Co. published them
as a regular habit. It is 15 months or so
since this busy young woman had a look at
Sydney before going off to Europe on a
holiday trip. The British Australasian
gives a breathless list of Mary’s inky doings
on the other side. In the intervals of
turning out stacks of copy and writing a
new book, “Gray’s Hollow,” she has cycled
over the British map and rushed through
Europe. Who says the average Australian
is suffering from the tired feeling? Unless
it be that she got started by accident and
was too tired to stop.
The Hardwicke pair—she was a Maori-
land girl and the daughter of a doctor in the
little Dominion —got a good deal of lime-
light lately in some of the London papers.
London being rather over-run with earls
during the “season” (when they’re on view
in Rotten Row and other public resorts),
they have to keep on doing extra turns io
arrange themselves in the front row. Quite
recently Lord Hard’ick (think of the
trouble I’d get into if this burst through the
lino, as Hardup!) caught a very large fish
somewhere or other. The weight of the
victim, and every detail except its dying
depositions, were laid before the public. Now
his brother the lion. Claud John Yorke, has
just had two weddings, the bride beinsr of
the Greek or Oysteropolus religion. This
caused a knot-tying at a Greek chapel, with
a Society postscript in St. George’s, Han-
over-square. The poor peerage being handi-
capped'by the American millionaire these
days, simply has to keep its nose to the
social grindstone, lest it sinks into a back
number and goes out of print and is never
republished.
The genial Edmund Resch pair had to
bustle off to Europe again to seek some great
oculist’s help for his eye trouble, which
continues persistent. They are now on the
bounding main in the Gneisenau, which
ought to be somewhere off the coast of
Westralla as I write.
A Swiss woman journalist, who is scouring
the earth for copy re the conditions of manual
laborers, is poised on the wing hereabouts
for a few weeks. Later she flits to Maoriland,
and will gradually see a good deal of this
planet’s woes before she winds up her watch
at Zurich. Miss Rtiegg has given up the
task of instructing the Young Idea to join
the fourth estate. She gets her knowledge
of life at first hand, by taking a billet in
which she works under local conditions. In
her book, which has already gone through
three editions, the Swiss scribe gives her ex-
periences as waitress in a big tourist hotel in
her native land, during the season. “Pictures
of Hotel Life” has not yet been translated
from the German, though it has been drama-
tised in the country that is so full of Alps
and toy chalets. In spite of its boosted
democracy, it has no law to protect women
workers in hotels, who often toil from 4 a.m.
till nearly midnight.
Ellen Terry, who was audible in her best
moments to Quite half the audience in the
Town Hall, had a wonderful reception on
Saturday night. The nerve strain of try-
ing to catch all her remarks, from the middle
of' that noisy sarcophagus, had its compen-
sation in the delight of seeing the tall,
graceful, red-robed figure, and watching the
dramatic gestures of the once inimitable
Shakspearian actress. But even the joy of
seeing her was mixed with the fear that her
reference boqk would fall over, or that she
would lose her place and have to be per-
sonally conducted back to the right sen-
tence.
The famous “quality of mercy” speech
was a good deal strained by Ellen’s own
dread of missing the text, which she read
from the fateful tome before her. A most
satisfactory audience ventured forth into
the mud and rain to cough through the
Terry discourse on Portia, Beatrice and
Rosalind. Legions of schoolgirls, shepherded
by watchful dames in learned spectacles,
throbbed with enthusiasm till their hair
bows made cinematograph effect of large
leaves tossed by a gale of excitement.
At a dinner given to Hugh Ward at the
Savoy Hotel (London) a while ago, Tas-
mania’s Agent-General McCall presided.
Amongst the thrcng were .T. A. E. Malone,
who represents George Edwardes in Eng-
land ; Meyer, who was out here with the
Oscar Asche co.; Cross, a magnate of the
Standard Oil Co. ; Murray Allison, a Syd-
ney man who is now business manager cf
London Times ; Mozar, at one time a beauty
man in the J.C.W. firm ; and Croxtom man-
ager of the London Coliseum. Gordon
Inglis, who used to be on the staff of Syd-
ney Telegraph, was also to the fore. Gor-
don, who has taken seriously to the top-hat
as a daily habit, is now settled in a snug
nook in the Commonwealth Offices, West-
minster.
The benefit matinee to W. Holman,
senior, was carefully engineered by stage-
manager Chas. Wheeler; lion. sec. Lawrence
Campbell, hon. business-help Ross Simp-
son, and hon. treas. Neville Mayman. The
Tivoli lent a number of its best voice and
feet artists (the latter gave a thrilling
exhibition of the Maxide dance, in which
the lady bounces up and down like a jack-
in-the-box), and every theatre in town sent
someone along to do a bit to help the show.
Maggie Moore, who shows no sign of fading
away to a skeleton, got the reception of the
afternoon, for the gallery nearly pounded
the old Royal floor to a jelly in its frantic
joy at seeing Maegie in Lizzie Stofel’s pina-
fore and baby bonnet. The veteran Hol-
man appeared in a snack from “Othello”
as the crafty lago. and again in “As You
Like It,” as ancient Adam.
Mabel Spence, a Tasmanian girl who has
a novel to her credit, arrived here the other
morning, after a very bumpy trip from
Hobart. She is scribbling hard at another
contribution to the London publishers.
A Sydneysider who recently strayed away
from home for a visit to Winchelsea .(Vic.)
tells me this: “Our town (it isn’t really
mine of course) was stirred to its depths a
week or so ago by a Great Event. The first
aeroplane seen here made a hawk-like de-
scent, w’hich shook the district to its basaltic
foundations. It was a military aero, and
was first seen above the township at break-
fast time, and finally fluttered to earth in a
paddock near my present abode. Young
children ran screaming to tell their mothers
about It. The local butcher boy gave an
early alarm and led a procession of inhabi-
tants who galloped as fast as their feet
would carry them to the scene of commotion.
The Press, which is the Archimedean Lever,
arrived in a baker’s cart, and a solid phal-
anx of townsfolk, hatless, without collars,
in neglige and bedroom slippers, or carrying
in their hands such domestic implements as
they were using, rushed to see the strange
creature brush the earth. Two military
men were in charge. They had to stand by
their airship while an obliging rustic tore
himself away, and fled to the blacksmith’s
for petrol. During the three-quarters of an
hour the aero, rested here it was surrounded
by two-thirds of the population, who gave
their personal impression of the first glimpse
of the marvel. I think the butcher boy’s
description was best: ‘Conscience me ! It
looked like a string o’ swans flyin’ home at
night.’ Our town has been greatly uplifted
ever since. Even the dry weather, which
has baked the rural golf links into small,
brown loaves of sod, impossible to play on,
takes a second place in conversation since
we have been introduced to a flying
machine.”
Winifred James, the Australian writer
who settled in the Thames city some years
ago, is almost well, after an unusual kind
of struggle with Fate. The heroine of a
novel who met with a nasty motor accident,
while on her way to the operating table of
a London hospital, would, of course, emerge
triumphant, but highly improbable, in a halo
of sticking-plaster. This incident happened
to novelist Winifred herself, instead of one
of her storied maidens, and she is luckily said
to be on the road to a Good Recovery. She is
Mrs. Henry de Jan, by the way, in private
life, aod is bound for Panama in June, if
her bruises are nicely healed.
Ellen Terry’s pretty cot in the little Kent
hamlet, Smallhythe, stands half-way between
two villages. Near it is one of those ancient
country churches where theology is dealt
out to the rustic intelligence in such care-
fully-sorted slabs as Hodge Ditcher or Giles
Hedger may digest without developing
bumptious notions of his own place in crea-
tion. Behind the church the four rude
fathers of the hamlet sleep, and three of
them were so rude that they ate with their
knives. In one village “pub” a group of
commercial travellers were foregathered,
when a bagman, chatting of having passed
the Terry homestead, mentioned the queer,
shingled roof of the near-by house of prayer.
“Shingled,” exclaimed another. “Why, I’ve
just passed that way myself—it’s a slate
roof!” “I’ll bet you anything you like it’s
shingled.” said Bagman the first* “Done!”
They went forth to look. Bothrfwere right;
the steep, sloping roof was shingled on the
side seen as approached in one direction.
The traveller who ambled towards it from
the opposite way saw the other half, which
was slated. Life moves slowly in rural
England. In another century or so they
may finish the new roof of Smallhythe kirk.
In the time of Henry 111. the whole thipg
was probably thatched.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


HARDY BROTHERS
LIMITED.
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
A Present for a Man
We have a fine stock of these Fashion-
able Dress Watches, made specially thin
to take up little room in the pocket,
SIDK VIEW.
xn
*
FRONT VIEW.
Gentleman’s Fashionable Thin, Flat, Crystal-Face
Watch. A thoroughly reliable Timekeeper.
Gunmetal Case with Gold Rim, £4/4/-
Similar Watches in 18ct. Gold, £l7.'
~ ~ in Silver, £3/15/-
Write for a copy of our large, illustrated Catalogue. Selections of
Newest Goods sent to the country on approval, if desired.
13 Hunter Street, Sydney; 118 Queen Street, Brisbane.
AND AT LONDON.
GOOD READING
is guaranteed in every volume of the
‘Bookstall” Series of Australian Books
The series that has beaten all Australian
publishing figures with a record of
1,500,000 copies actually sold to date.
FOUR NEW BOOKS:
‘A Rebel of the Bush.”
By DON DELANEY.
in the Last Stride.”
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
Australian Barkers and
Biters.”
By ROBERT KALESKI.
“Tools of Satan.”
By LANCELOT BOOTH.
GREAT STORIES OF THE BUSH
“ The Calling Voice.”
By E. F. CHRISTIE.
“Sodger Sandy’s Bairn.”
By A. BATHGATE.
“Mum Dawson—Boss.”
By SUMNER LOCKE.
“ Rocky Section.”
By SYDNEY PARTRIGE.
Stella Sothern.”
By I. A. ROSENBLUM.
On the Fringe of the Never Never”
By H. K. BLOXHAM.
Base Brands ”
By H. M. SOMER.
Scotty Mac —Shearer.”
By R. S. TAIT.
And STEELE RUDD’S FAMOUS “ SELECTION ”
STORIES.
Price 1/- each.
Obtainable from every
Bookseller and Bookstall
in the Commonwealth.
Posted 1/1.
WRITE FOR COMPLETE CATALOGUE.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 George Street, Sydney.
LOOK FOR THIS LINE,.
<U
v
*rr*
/
ss
THE PIANOLA PIANO not only enables
you to play any composition, but also shows
you how to give a correct interpretation.
The line on the music-roll you see in the illus-
tration is the Metrostyle line, which is found
only on Pianola music-rolls used in conjunction
with the Pianola and Pianola Piano. It furnishes
A TRUE AND AUTHORITATIVE GUIDE
TO THE PROPER INTERPRETATION
OF A COMPOSITION.
The Pianola Piano
(STECK, STEINWAY, WEBER or STROUD
PIANO) is the only piano which CAN and
DOES teach you the music whilst you play it.
don't you become a skilled musician? Why
d6n't you call at Pianola Hall and prove for your-
sfelf that you can become one immediately? A
practical demonstration is far better than a
Catalogue. But if inconvenient for you to call,
write for Catalogue ** T.”
The genuine Pianola. Piano can be purchased
ONLY AT PIANOLA HALL from 120 Guineas. We
allow full value for your Piano, and extend the
Payments from One to Three Years if desired.
“I consider the Metrostyle indispensable to the Pianola,
and I have indicated my interpretation of several compositions
with great interest.” L j PADEREWSKI.
“The Metrostyle is of extraordinary interest. I have
Metrostyled some of my own compositions, and owners of the
Pianola can now play them according to the interpretations I
have indicated.” SIR EDWARD ELGAR.
RECITALS DAILY; also FRIDAY EVENINGS
rtM OU «•*%
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
Pty.
Ltd.
252 Co/Jins Street, MELBOURNE;
88 Bundle Street, ADELAIDE;
and 436-438 Queen Street, BRISBANE; London, Berlin, New York, etc
357 George Street (next David Jones Ltd.), Sydney.
- r.
mi •* r H» CIKMAN IMMfttM


COAT SWEATERS
The new Cogt Sweaters are handsome in appearance,
-and .afford exceptional comfort during: the cold winter
months.
Farmer’s offer splendid values in Coat Sweaters.
The one illustrated is a pure wool, Scotch make,
fastening down the front with five buttons. Colors:
Tight Grey, Navy, Sage and Heather. Sizes: Small
Men’s, Men’s, O.S. and Extra O.S. Men’s.
Price 21/- each.
Similar Styles from 12/6 to 63/-
FARMER’S PAY CARRIAGE.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY
Pitt, Market and George Streets.
D
S
9
THE FASHION PERFUME
OF TO-DAY.
11 .
. . '
ParfGn)
LilaS
Manufactured by
GUSTAV
LOHSE,
BERLIN.
Imitated but not
equalled.
Sole
Agent:
A.O. SCHMIDT, William Street
MELBOURNE.
The
Oriental
Hotel,
MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA’S MODERN HOTEL.
Now open for the reception of Quests.
The most HvgienicConditionsand Refined
Elegance are distinctive features.
Any size suite of compartments.
Tariff from 15/- per day.
ERNEST McINTOSH, General Manager.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, May IS, 1914.
My Dear Yarrie,--
Deniliquin had aj wild, mad time while the
Denmans were visiting the Falkiners. At
the race-ball, Help] Pollok demonstrated the
eternal tango, with the assistance of Edna
Armytage and Bijlie Clegg (Mrs. Simon
Eraser, jun.). Local grass-seeds almost leaped
through their celluloid collars during the
lesson, and wondered suspiciously, as they
watched the Dennian lady, “if them there
di’monds was reel?”
The Denman lady, before departing this
State, made a pilgrimage to the studio of
Miss B. B. Davis, at 46 Elizabeth-street, aud
bought . some samples of the Davis china,
which is decorated, gilded, enamelled, bred
and occasionally smashed on the premises,
aniidst a variety of strange, hot smells. The
distinguished visitor expressed her astonish-
ment that such \yonders could be accom-
plished in such a small space; but, of course,
the chief use of distinguished visitors is to
express astonishment. It would be a poor d.v.
who couldn’t punjp up some astonishment
at the sight of a sad, tangled female washing
up dishes in a dim light, or a cow sitting
down on the grass and chewing the cud alone
and unaided. Mrs. Shepherd, wife of
Andrew Fisher’s secretary, and the devoted
pupil of Miss Davis, helped to show her late
Ex. round, and indicated the most suitable
things for vice-regal amazement.
The Gaud Mayoral farewell to the depart-
ing Denmans, at.Hennessy’s old shebeen, was
particularly luscious. The proud wearer of
the rabbit skin, who is always lavish, was
goaded to make an unusually expensive
splash, for the news had just been whispered
to him that he would most likely hold office
for the third year in succession, if all went
well until August. So every potted palm on
the premises had its private blaze of electrics,
:and maples from Macedon and more lights
(Cunningly placed behind them to show off the
autumn tints of the foliage. The band in
(attendance played waltzes and ragtime, but
there was no dancing. Denman appeared
with all his stars on, and tried to mix a look
<of sorrow with a pleased-to-be-here expres-
sion. But the strain of maintaining such a
complex or shandygaff aspect was too much
for him, and he finished up wearing the old,
bored 100k —which is as easy as being dead.
Her Ex. was clothed splendidly in black and
diamonds. A large diamond buckle was
clamped neatly to' the small of her back, so,
while she conversed with one set of citizens,
the next bunch could quietly estimate the
value of the clasp.. The Frederick Black-
wood lady, on the dais, showed her back to the
audience most of the time. It seemed to be
a nice, lean back, and the mop of chestnut
curls at the top end of the white neck finished
it off nicely. Her husband, who is military
secretary to the new G.-G., was on hand. The
fraud Mayoress had a tango color worked into
her clothes, and wore a gallon or so of dia-
monds. But Mrs. Lansell, of Bendigo, out-
shone everybody when it came to that. A
crystal chandelier or a picture palace might
have had a look-in with her, but nothing else.
Of course, supper rounded off the expensive
party. (What I mean is that nearly every-
body was rounder when he or she departed.)
Oh, it was cosy, my dear! There was a
carpet on the floor and a nice background
of greenery and electrics, plenty of bright
music, blither, and then that beautiful round-
ing-off already mentioned. When one is
frying to do something horrible with two
onions, a piece of steak, a fryingpan and a
candle (the gas having been cut off), it is
harrowing to remember such beautiful free
feeding.
The Denman lady and her children paid an
unexpected visit to the Children’s Hospital
just before the exodus. A Gentleman Help
and the chauffeur staggered in after them
under a load of toys that made the sickest
baby present sit up and try to smile. Every
infant got a gift of some sort, and the ward's
were soon humming, whirring and whizzing
with models of motor-cars and things, till
at last the distracted, white-capped nurses
had to stable the things in cupboards. Harry
Lauder has sent most of his floral loot anil
tartan ribbon to the same institution.
The Denmans got away safely last Thurs-
day. There was the usual dreadful fuss, but
I offset that by preserving an air of the
utmost, calm at the Town Hall corner, a
strategic point I had carefully chosen days
beforehand. At the slightest sign of popular
delirium, I was ready to fire an onion at the
ringleader and thus restore order. Fortu-
nately no repressive measures of the kind
were necessary. I have it on the best
authority that, as the carriage left the gates
of Government House, a trusty and well-
beloved charlady dropped on her knees, and
with a shrill cry of “God Save the King!”
commenced to scrub out for the new dynasty.
No doubt her office will become hereditary
All the morning, the vice-regal luggage cart
(the oue that closely resembles Black
Maria) had been taking risks with the St.
Kilda-road traffic, dashing madly to and
from the station with loads of personal be-
longings. At midday the departing „pajr
were fed in the Queen’s Hail in the company
of the Parliamentary time-wasters and their
wives. They wore a dreamy look as they
sipped their official soup, and before coffee-
time they looked quite as anxious as ordi-
nary mortals who have to personally shep-
herd their own luggage. However, in spite
of his anxieties, his Ex. got off a long speech
without a single sneeze or saying “The
’ealth which you ’avc jus’ drank”—which
was the amazing start made by a frock-
coated young man I heard many years ago.
It so annoyed me that I raised my trusty
brolly, and with one dreadful hit stove in
the belltopper of an attentive old gentleman
who was sitting directly in front. However,
his Ex. made no breaks of the kind. After-
wards he tidied up a few matters in private
with his advisers, and then streaked for
home to get his suit-case. The progress
from Government House to Spencer-street
station was interrupted by a Gaud Mayoral
hold-up at the Town Hall and the thin
shrieks of blue-nosed school children. At
the station the crowd thinned out to an
official party laden with bouquets and
headed by Gaud Mayor Ilennessy in his
most dazzling belltopper. The State Gover-
nor was represented by a small secretarial
representative, and, as soon as the express
drew out, these officials hurried away to
arrange another fuss for the new potentate.
And the lonely vice-regal charlady away be-
yond the city dipped her brush again and
scrubbed madly for King and Empire.
Lesly Madden is in hospital, suffering from
nervous breakdown, caused, it is said, by her
exertions on behalf of Charity. Her last
effort before the eclipse was to learn the lead-
ing part in “Jack Straw,” a play she intended
producing on behalf of something or other.
Now the whole thing is off, and the charity
will have to get cash elsewhere. On Satur-
day, however, Miss Lesly was sufficiently
restored to take an afternoon off. She was
conveyed to the Gaud Mayoress’s rooms at
Ice down Hall, to receive a presentation
which had been engineered by Mrs. Staugh-
ton. Fred Newman, representing amateur
mummery in its naicest and most “charitable”
form, spoke on behalf of Mrs. S. when he
handed over a diamond wristlet watch and an
address to “the noble daughter of a noble
father. Lesly Madden said thank-you in
suitable terms, and then she was driven back
to the house of sickness, with Mrs. Staughton
acting as chaperon. All things considered,
the wristlet watch seemed an ill-timed com-
pliment to the lady. She doesn’t want to
catch trains or keep appointments when she's
in a private hospital. The idea, perhaps,
was to make a fuss over the Waxellency’s
daughter before the new vice-regals came
along to absorb all the limelight.
The Quamby Club, profiting by its former
crushing experiences when vice-royalty was
expected, limited its party of Friday last to
members only. Lady Stanley was the guest,
she having just become patron of the insti-
tution. The Irederick Blackwood lady also
arrived as a new member. The Club laid
out the best savory and turned on coffee and
tnue. It also ransacked Macedon for the
fine maple leaves the Mount clothes itself in
at tins tune of year, and spread the pretty
spoil over its rooms. Three nice girls worked
a piano, a ’cello and a violin in the potted
palm quarter, and a homely wood fire blazed
in the drawing-room, where the Stanley lady
had her fellow-members presented to her.
Gertrude Rennie, who runs the show, got
tlilough the job without having her temper
oi- clothes spoiled, or ruffling her hair. The
previous vice-regal dame was installed on" a
blazing hot day, and the guests tore their
garments badly and escaped down the stairs
fixe an avalanche of ragged lunatics, with
myself whooping and kicking helplessly in
the centre. This function was as orderly
as a police.social, and not half so jolly. The
star guest seemed flurried when she reached
the premises. She flung off a wrap of seal
tur and orange color with a sigh of relief
and left Help Wilson to do his best to find a
place tor it. The cloak-room warrior
walked warily, with his ears laid back, and
someone found him later in a secluded corner,
setting fire to scented cigarettes. Ladv
Irederick Blackwood, who has a mop of
chestnut curls and is as tall as a liop-pole
wore black tailorings and a sauev hat. Saucy
hats were numerous. Fan Dango-Macka y’s
hd was a plate of black satin with a few
briar roses on it, worn lop-sided. Mrs.
\\ allach got her effect with a German stu-
dent: cap tipped at a wicked angle over her
left e.ve. (Immediately I noted these effects
I gave my own rag helmet a clout with my
umbrella, and it fell over sidewavs and was
fashionable at once.) The aim of the
Quamby Club (which is composed mostly of
young matrons) is to seem picturesquely and
discreetly Wicked. The efforts of the club-
ites to appear Bold Girls are enough (o
make the angels moult. All the same, it was
a terrible blow to them when their request
for a liquor license was refused. But to
get back to the party. The committee-
women carried as tokens of office little
bunches of flowers wrapped in chiffon and
tied to poles. A nretty little idea, but very
footling; it was all I could do to keep from
breaking a few across my knee. As a mat-
tor of fact, I grabbed at one but missed it.
fwo Mrs. Colliers were much in evidence.
(Whenever you see people hurrying about at
top speed, and nobody seems to know
what they are doing, it is safe to say thev
were much in evidence.) Mrs. Harold Grim-
wade, who dresses well, wore putty color and
brown with distinction. Mrs. Gerald Buck-
land loomed in black, and crowds of bright
society hens came out in new feathers. Mrs.
Fairbairn (vice-president) rushed about at
top speed, streaming black hat-feathers and
looking indefatigable. She did half a mile
in 3min. 42sec., and pulled up fresh. I
don’t know what she is training for. The
Falkiner dame and other sheen or sheepish
females came down from the wilds for the
spree, and the Club’s sleeping accommodation
was fully taxed, as they say in the morning
papers. There is a rumor that one member
slept on the grand piano.
The new G.-G. and his Lady Helen, aboard
the Otway, crept through the misty Heads
in the drear, chill dawn of Monday morning,
and wandered slowly up the bay past the
blinking buoys. The cruiser Melbourne and
the destroyer Parramatta shadowed the tall
liner until it reached the Gellibrand Light,
off Williamstown, where the vice-regals were
taken off by the ancient Lady Loch, which
was loaded down with politicians, and ferried
across to the cruiser Melbourne, which had
anchored about a mile or so off St. Kilda
pier. There was a pause for lunch on the
Melbourne, and then, in the first bright hour
of the afternoon, the little Plover steamed
over and took the strangers to the pier, where
they were welcomed and introduced to offi-
cialdom and politics, while the St. Kilda
mayoral couple, the rabbit-skinned council-
lors and their wives fidgeted at the shore
end. Mrs. O’Donnell, the mayoress, looked
large enough for the tremendous occasion in
mole and squirrel furs with a violet-feathered
hat. The Stanley lady arrived just in time
for the landing ceremony, attended by Help
Wilson. She looked cold but jolly, under
a smart black hat, and black velvet, fur-
edged cloak.
Munro-Ferguson is a braw. fresh-complex-
ioned man, with a cheery smile that creases
up the corners of his eyes. He is tall and
stands as if he felt the ground solid under
him. “Isn’t she like Queen Mary?” was
Mrs. St. Hilda’s first impression of Lady
Helen. She is tall and narrow, has a gentle
smile and a stately carriage. For the land-
ing, she wore a black coat, a black feather
boa, a small black hat and a tidy veil. Doris
Blackwood, the sporty, 18-year-old niece, has
a laughing Irish face, fair and plump. She
wore a very ordinary navy-blue coat and
skirt, with a lace collar and a little, three-
cornered black silk cap that looked just the
thing for golf or motoring.
The Pinschofs are killing the fatted son-
ata and making merry over the return of
daughter Elizabeth, who has come back with
bridegroom Bindley from the South African
honeymoon. After a spell in the Ivew home
the pair go on to New York.
‘‘Manny” Fox and his wife are off to Ta-
hiti for a holiday after their show. They
will call in at Melbourne on their way back
to England.
The fine-looking girl who hurried through
Melbourne in the wake of Ellen Terry is
Miss Forbes, a rich orphan with money and
musical tastes, who wanted to see this part
of the world. Her guardian arranged that
she should accompany the distinguished
Ellen. _ Melbourne folk noticed her tucked in
alongside the star during motor trips, and
viewed her airing good clothes at the various
welcoming functions, and heaps of people
on the outskirts wondered tremendously who
or what she was.
Mrs. Ronald Forbes, wife of an ex-Gentle-
man Help, of Sydney, has been enjoying her-
self in South Africa, riding over the ever-
lasting veldt and doing most of the things
that are done by the heroines of South
African she-novels. Nowadays every second
novel-reader yearns with all her soul to
sniff the air of the country where Poppy
and other fictitious females lived and had
their hysterics and heart-storms.
From “Rosna,” in London: —
Melba celebrated her return to London by drop-
ping’ a. .£5O note into the “Old Vic,” where an
enterprising and kindly music-lover, Miss May Bav-
lis, provides grand opera for 2d. a head. The grossly
affluent can pay a shilling, but the twopenny audi-
ence is the real one. Miss Ba.vlis is stage-manager,
business-manager, proprietor and everything else, and
she provides excellent shows.
Prof.' Marshall Hall’s Australian opera, “Stella.”
is to be performed at the “Palladium” in June, with
Constance Drover in the name part and the com-
poser as conductor.
The new Chinese Consul brought his little
wife to the Gaud Mayoral reception the other
day. She is a pretty, magnolia-skinned
little person with a pair of sparkling almond
eyes, and she dresses in miniature clothes of
the latest fashionable cut. The previous
Consuless always wore the quaint duds of
Cathay and a look of unbreakable calm.
Artist Charlie Nuttall is in hospital as the
result of being smacked heartily on the back
by the open door of a moving railway car-
riage. When he feels good and fresh again
he is going for the eager lunatic who opened
it.
I lag-Lieutenant Blomfield’s missus is flat-
ing at Melbourne Mansions, now that
luboy and his ship are hovering round the
V'l , , The straw-haired Anglo-Indian
la /v y w elt in smart grass-widowhood
~ Quamby Club, where her clothes ex-
cited turious envy. And that is the end of
every woman’s desire.
btreeton is here and has taken a place in
Z l , e .Bourke-street to store his cased pic-
tul'e* ln - oome of the cases weigh a ton,
and the artist is wearing a bandage round one
thumb through shoving or lifting in the
wrong place. He is still the same old quiet,
genial jsmike” of the early days. (Every
artist who has come out of Melbourne knows
mm as “bmike.” He was nick-named after
i\j- e i i v ll ,, hun gry person in “Nicholas
JNickleby and the tag sticks, though nowa-
days he looks aggressively robust and shoves
a . ' andyke set of whiskers through an appre-
ciative world with the air of a swashbuckler
whose swashing has prospered.) His show
P^ ctu res not whiskers) is to be held in
nMJTT O « an (Jallery and not in the
Huild Hall, as originally intended.
All the fashionable dogs are now being got
ready for show by their female slaves of the
Cadies Kennel Club. The uproar is dated
tor June 6, and will happen at Wirths’ Hip-
podrome.
scaffolding has come down from Scott’s
Hotel, and now the squatter patrons are
separated from their refreshments by a plate-
glass door instead of the old-time screens.
Alien there are lifts to proceed to bed in, so
no man need crawl upstairs on his hands and
knees. (P.S. —This item really should go
in the drinking column. I must ask the Edi-
tor if this is the drinking column.)
I rom my Adelaide correspondent:—
lhe Adelaide Cup Meeting occurred in pleasant
summer weather, to the annoyance and disconcert-
ment of those who had turned up in tailor-mades and
turs. The weather lacks the most elementary notions
or tact. The , Galways were there on both da vs;
not to mention pretty little Miss d’Erlanger, Miss
Macaulay, Captain Fletcher (who is to leave us in
vr ,2’,, ,ptain Hopwood and Private Secretary
Mulholland. The P.S. is commonly reputed to be
the youngest of his trade on record and the possessor
of a name which no one can pronounce.
On Saturday Lady Galway was in white cloth, and
her daughter in navy crepe de chine, which gar-
ments they exchanged on Monday for black (Lady
Galway) and mole-color (the daughter). What a
lire I On Cup Day—Monday—Mrs. Tom Barr Smith
stood some friends tea in a frock of shot crepe de
„ an ingratiating series of smiles. Mrs.
U. E. H. Hope and Mrs. Allan McFarlane, with her
smart daughter, were identified on the course, like-
wise the Downer lady, Mrs. Keith Bowman, Mrs.
.)° pe ’ Mrs. Evan Kyffin Thomas, Miss Edith
McMillan (with her, as they say in the law-reports, Miss
Buiston, of Melbourne), Mrs. T. G. Wilson and her cousin,
Miss Ethel Brookman (who, with her mother, had
airived from England on the previous Saturday),
Mrs. Humphrey Marten and her daughter, and a few’
raa , bie , totalisator put up a record—being about
■ alle ®d °f fast year’s figures. In the Accession
Handicap Thonndale paid a dividend of £47.
An attempt is being made to rebuild the Mission
to Seamen’s Hall at Port Adelaide, which was burnt
down early in the year. The Calendar device is being
employed as a hirer of shekels. Miss Waite, who
was the secretary, has resigned, and her place has
been taken by Miss Lucy Ayers; but she is acting as
one ot the calendar sub-committee with Miss Ayers
and Mrs. Girdlestone.
Miss Helen Murray, of Rhine Park, left for Eng-
land by the Orvieto on Friday. So did the Laving-
ton Bonythons.
Mr Frank Mackay, who died suddenly on Wednes-
day, had been Port Adelaide manager for the South
Australian Company since 1908, and in the service of
the company for 34 years. He was apparently quite
yvell on Tuesday evening, but was found unconscious
in his bed on Wednesday morning, and died about
12 hours later.
Mrs. Backhouse was hostess on Thursday afternoon
at a tea given at the Queen Adelaide Club.
lhe Repertory Theatre’s second performance for
this year was given at the Unley Town Hall on
Saturday when “The Education of Mr. Sur-
rage was played to a large audience. Many of the
be f T alrl .V termed habituals. For example,
the Stirlings, Luxmoores, Arthur Rymills, Morices
Miss Brookes, some of the Kyffin Thomases, Mrs.
Box, and the Brewster Jones.
It is a smart stunt, nowadays, to have as a pet a
tame crocodile. You feed it by hand and take it for
wa ks, and insist on bringing it to balls, tango teas
and so on, and as a result it lives for 60 years
T et ™' s /> lv . es , even , longer. It is most lovable
when it has attained a length of six feet. It adores
children—and the fatter the better. A South Aus-
tralian now domiciled in Europe has one. She says
m, 1 , 8 a P erf ect an^eL Jt P uts in most of its time
behind the stove when she is too busy to talk to it
But as you can well imagine, that is not often. As
an intellectual companion a mature crocodile takes
a deal of beating.
Miss Mary Grant Bruce, the Australian writer who
has been putting in something over a year in Ire-
land and London, passed through in the Otway on
. ay. She is to be married in Melbourne some
ti 1 n m July.
The Munro-Fergusons, who got on board somewhat
jagged by a series of good-byes in London, took
things quietly on the voyage, and so amassed a
moderate amount of strength to face the music of
the official welcome here—a double affair which
occurred at the Outer Harbor, and again in \de-
laide. They went on by the boat in the afternoon.
Weve been absolutely overwhelmed with vice-regali-
ties this week. What with Munro-Fergusons, Denmans and
Galways we have got quite dazed. An old gentleman
buist unexpectedly into song—“ God Save the King”
being the chosen number—in a tram that I was in last
night. When asked to desist he explained that he
only meant to inquire, when he opened his mouth
where the Town Hall was. They flung him off and
he was still singing penetratingly as he landed in
the gutter. So you see what a superfluity of loyalty
and so forth can do.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


T.
>:
'
■
>\ : Uv V r\V \% t
■:rm
wwmz&tmm
' V aiS
, w |& * -Sf*!
J : . ■ .
.
rsmm
m
& !
.
-
SB
.
mm
}-: ■■#■
.
■
»*
: 'W?
HI
>_ 0 -
:'v, •
-
PSMMWM
■
Joseph Simpson, R.B.A.
Copyright. John Dewar & Son-,
JAMES BOSWELL
This Picture is the Ninth of a Series of colored Portraits of Famous Scots published by
JOHN DEWAR & SONS, L™’ Scotch Whisky Distillers, Perth 6??* London


£9l
30*
Fot
Windows
Cleaning
windows is
the easy
task with
Bon Ami.
dfg
i For
Painted
wood
worn
Bon Ami
will not hurt
the paint-
removes the
dirt only
Boh Ami
Bon Ami
fevu- ZrmUhca Hslf
Bon Ami has a velvety fineness and
does Us work without scratching.
fdg
The most wonderful cleaner in the
world — invaluable because of it 3
many uses in the home.
[I
THe World's Best
DAIMLER
Motor Lorry.
Silent Knight Engine.
SHaft Drive No Chains.
C
fg
SUNSHINE
Motor Cars P*t*y
Melbourn
Hug'li V. McKay, Sydney & Adelaide
Sole
Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Pick”: If “Leo Lear” (B. 16/4/’l4) and
“Doubter” (B. 5/3/’l4) have heard of Varischetti,
the Italian miner, who was rescued by divers from
a flooded Westralian mine, or of the six tunnelers
who, some years ago, were imprisoned by water for
eight days in a Bendigo drive, they may understand
how ants are found alive and well after their homes
have been submerged in flood time. Like most sub-
terranean dwellers, anfs burrow upwards from the
bottom of their entrance shafts, and the air in the
higher storeys of their tenement is sufficient for the
family, though the lift-well and ground floors are
flooded. Similarly I have seen a bird whose nest
was far back in a hole in a river’s bank, emerge,
preen her feathers and recommence worm-cooking
duties after the habitation had been inundated for
days. I will send along the bole, as a guarantee of
good faith, if any miserable sceptic will forward
three penny stamps.
OUTBACK.
THE MOTORIST: " Where can we get lunch
about here ?"
THE TAMP: “Why, it's a 'ell of a way—so
far that I’ve had time to sober up since I
left the place."
The water hyacinth has become so bad in
some Australian rivers that navigation is almost
stopped. The blessed weed makes the river look like
a meadow, and steamers lose their way, just as if
they were trying to climb a tree. Also, it holds up
whole rafts of logs and sundries, and steamers wreck
their propellers on them. Two vessels—one an ocean
craft—fell down within a few recent days and broke
their necks on the hyacinth in the Richmond River
(N.S.W.). Still (thank goodness! also praise the
Lord!) the hyacinth can’t live in sAlt water. It
is only a question of abandoning the futile, shallow,
weed-infested bar-bound river mouths, and opening
up, by roads and railways and wharves, the big
neglected harbors, and the hyacinth can be told to
do its worst.
"Pick”: Owing to its weather severity
most domestic animals are trekked from the Kiandra
country (N.S.W.) at the beginning of winter.
All the same, years ago, wild horses in plentiful
mobs, either weathered the climate or succumbed
to it. They have long since been exterminated by
hunters for the hair of their manes and tails, but
relics of the brumby herds still remain in the ruins
of the trap-yards wherein they used to be driven bv
the huntsmen, and in the frequent heaps of their
bleached bones where they were snowed up and died
of starvation. At these spots their teeth-marks high up
in the wood of surrounding trees tell how desperately
they tried to winter on a bark diet when the grass
supply and hop-scrub within the snow-walls failed.
At the back of Governor s Hill the skeleton of a
horse remained, for many years, suspended in the
branches of a tree, 30ft. from the ground. Divers
theories were advanced to explain how he got there,
but as it never rains horses in that country the
general belief was that he treed himself in plunging
over a frozen snow-drift 35ft. deep.
* * * *
"Snell” : There are several clutches of new
chums in the woods round Gembrook (Vic.) —curi-
ously helpless bushmen doing their mild best to
catch on to the customs of the country. One bright
spirit from Lancashire was present on two or three
occasions when several mill-hands discussed the un-
expected appearance of wallaby in the scrub along
the creek. Sam, o’ Mill Bottom, became curious
about these wallabies, and spent some time creeping
in the scrub, seeking them. One afternoon two
fellers, busy on a butt, saw, to their great astonish-
ment, a small wallaby dashing for the hilltop, with
Sam in hot pursuit about 200 yards in the rear.
Sam had his hat in his hand, and was pacing the
paddock, with magnificent spirit, but discovered the
vanity of his new pursuit when he came abreast of
the men, and sat down to recover. “What in ail
creation .were you doing?” asked an axeman. “Do-
in’?” said Sam’l. “Wasn’t yon one o’ them wallabies ?
By goom, I thought I’d got un. Poor beggar, he
was that lame he couldn’t put his front feet to the
ground. But couldn’t ’e ’op!”
* * # *
, ? tn l, the cry goes up and still the ears are
cleat. The annual report of the Hawkes Bay (M L )
Inspectors of Schools has this:—
of'ch,ld a^hm C ° rdS i' Yh '^ h |) ',' ove that the exploitation
ot child laboi in dairying districts is still prevalent
space fm U H° f i toll bef ( ° n ‘ 1111(1 after sc hool leave no
children glamor , of youth . and the future of the
chddien is enormously prejudiced by robbing them
vli2 educational advantages which, though pro-
vided at gieat cost to the State, they cannot avail
their S fiours°in°Ychook° that accompanies
It is understood that Farmer Massey’s Government is
matter baCkward to do nothing in the
’* *
‘‘Vie”: There have been high jinks at
Portland, with attendance of Government bosses, for
Hcntv 7 A , nnive r sa 7- Whalers alighted there before
Henty’ and made houses, but he was the first who
permanently anchored, so to speak. There were
great schools of Bight whales, which came to Port
wnri G T Winter ’ Seven hundred tons of oil
ven in 1835. Once the casks ran out, and a
hundred tons were poured into clay
pits. Five whaling ships were at
anchor there at the same time a little
before Mitchell came, in 1836
Henty arrived in 1834. Fifty whales
would be caught in a season. Even
before Henty’s time there might be
20 or 30 men living ashore. Dur-
ing the summer they would go right
to Westernport, and strip wattle bark
for London, where it was sold at
£l4 a ton. The ships called at
Tasmania for clearance papers, and
this roused interest over what is now
Victoria. The men left ashore by
whalers at Portland used also to get
seal skins and wallaby skins. They
would scatter round as far as Kan-
garoo Island. Dutton was chief
landsman at Portland in 1833, and
may be called the first Victorian set-
*J er ' Two separate parties were at
1 ortland when Henty came. They
grew onions and potatoes, kept fowls,
and had nice gardens. Whales,
affrighted from the boats, often got
stranded. The blacks would send
up a signal column of smoke. The
Hentys, of course, went in for the
whale traffic. As Mitchell approached their settle-
To±v qU r e lgn ? r “* ° f ft ’ one of black boys,
Tommy Come Last, spied cattle-hoof marks, and
shoe marks of a white man. Then they found a
dav fob, a - h6ad knOCked ° ff ’ and Portions of
Felix Id the H PeS ; + Mitchell ’ s report of Australia
r eiix led the Hentys to strike inland
* * * ' ,
“Leo Lear”: I see that “Tekelo” (B
9/4/14) is the latest of the northern scribes to "as
about alligators. Unless he has been to
America 111 wager my existence he’s never
seen a gator m the wild state. For the
last time, it is crocodiles we possess." There
are, two species of this order in the North—John-
TZ \h'°l ’ a Tfu’ Va '' iet - V runn inB: up to 7ft. long •
and the boss of the saurians, the saltwater ’dile If
anyone cares to examine ’gators and crocs, with a
micioscope the difference between them will be appar-
el t The J ower can ine teeth of the American repre-
sentative fit into the upper jaw, while in the ’dile’s
anatomy there is a notch upon which the teeth close
rheie is also a difference in the scales of the hind
he § ’iaw f'h N n tl I ernerS have “nished examining
tor one day y W * had SU * cient excit «nent
OUT OF THE MOUTHS OF BABES, ETC.
TEACHER : " What ts the best place to keep milk from turning sour?"
BOY : “In the cow, sir."
“Walh”: I write to confirm “Wonn’s”
statement (B. 9/4/’l4) r e the “Help-yourself-and-
pay-the-till” pub at Toombon. Any Walhalla resi-
dent of a couple of years’ standing will corroborate it.
The. hotel has since been closed by the Licenses
Reduction Board. Once a successful mining field,
Toombon (a place of deep gorges and steep, barren
hills) now laments a population of about three pro-
spectors and several or less dogs. The old-age
pensioners left when the pub was shut down
and toddled over the hills and far awav
he dance hall, I believe, still leans at various
angles on the original site. Toombon is the place
where a funeral once lost itself for half a day, on
account of the sexton becoming incapacitated through
grief. By reason of his tears and lamentations he
was unable to furnish intelligible directions as to
where he had “sunk the hole.”
* * *
7 Polstan ” : Tlle discovery at Bunyip
(Vic.) of a dead ’possum, embalmed in honeycomb,
in a wild bees’ nest is not an unusual occurrence of
its kind. Bees detest the presence of anything foreign
in their hives, and if they cannot remove the hin-
clrance they invariably cover it with wax so that it
may not be offensive. Snakes have been found on
the floorboards of frame hives completely interred in
this manner, having first been stung to death by the
infuriated defenders of the citadel. (A snake, by the
way, when tackled by bees or ants does not attempt
to escape, but squirms about and does Euclid pro-
blems with itself till it gives up the elongated ghost )
In this case the ’possum either tumbled into the nest
and didnt manage to climb out again before the
angry horde fell upon him, or was there when the
swarm entered the hollow, and got it in the belt
before he was ready. When worker bees die in the
hive the bodies are carried some hundreds of yards
away (one bee can fly with the cadaver of another
with the greatest ■ apparent ease), and left for the
ants to attend to. The bee detests strong odors, a
trait which is no doubt responsible for the vicious
manner in which a swarm will attack dogs and
horses, although a swarm, gorged with honey sup-
plies, is usually the most harmless thing in the bee
line imaginable. Strangely enough, however, mice
will live amongst bees seemingly in safety, smell
and all, and continue to work astonishing havoc
amidst the combs till routed out by the irate apiarist,
the bee-moth, which causes even greater destruc-
tion, also gets in some fine work from his particular
point of view where black bees are concerned, gradu-
ally covering the combs with its web and driving the
bees out in the end. Strong colonies of Italian or
Cyprian bees, however, deal very effectivelv with
this nuisance, tearing away the web as rapidly as it
is constructed and dealing out stoush to the in-
vader.
o-0-4 ’ : In reply to some remarks about
bog or peat or swamp fires, I have done a lot of hot
and fiery work amongst burning peat on the great
Moe Swamp, Gippsland (Vic.). The fires start
very easily, often as the result of burning off a
paddock of thistles or Tories, or other rubbish. I
have seen over 50 fires going in a 40-acre paddock.
They are the very Devil to extinguish, for the peat
goes down to 7ft. Crops seem to do as well on the
ashes as on the unburnt ground. When building the
main drain the workmen came on huge trunks
of trees at a depth of 6ft. to 10ft., many of them
in a semi-petrified state. As for the assertion that
the rain puts peat fires out, it makes me smile a
IN AND OUT.
ENGLISH GAOL VISITOR (reading notice):
“ Ah, that must be Mrs. Pankhurst's
cell!"
wholp acre. On this swamp (where the natives i have
web feet owing to a rainfall of over 50in„ and the
inud m the eowyards is also over 50in.) I have seen
r,. P sky-torrents coming down hard enough to drown
~„B apt,st® ’ one on to P °f another, but it made no
difference to the fires. Try the experiment of fiut-
tng a really important devil under a shower-bath
to extinguish him, and then you may know sofne-
thing alxwt the chance that a shower has when it
tries to extinguish a burning bog.
(Continued on page 24.)
THE CURSE OF CLOTHES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Said Dr. Gerald Sharp, Bishop of Papua, speaking
“w* 1 I n ! eetl ' l - ot the Papuan Mission, in London :
Me like the natives to retain their old customs,
tt has been found that if a Papuan boy begins to
'vear singlets and trousers he degenerates physically
morally.”
Behold the penalty of clothes,
Me catch our sable brother,
Who wears a splinter through his nose,
He's “sable,” and no other.
We fit a foolish pair of pants
Upon his trunk so limber,
And then the undertaker plants
Him down among the little ants'
In one full suit of timber.
Such things as sultry socks, and ties,
And cosy, knitted garments,
Do but prepare the coons unwise
To be unholy “varmints.”
Full undress suits the swarthy “boy,”
And Christians prone to giving
, I heir cast-off togs serve to destroy
1 001 heathens who might long enjoy
Their general bare living.
Ihe morals of good Papu-ans
Slump at an awful rate if
Our shirts and skirts and hats and fans
Are given to the native.
That shirts should make a nig debased
A lesson is for wowsers,
For niggers clad are rarely chaste^
The shocking fact must now be faced—
The Devil first made trousers!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


BUCKLEY’S
Silent, Easy Running Machines
The Best Obtainable in the Commonwealth.
A REVOLUTION IN PRICES.
XsB2—The Silent
“Empress” Improved Lock-
stitch Hand Machine, on
Walnut base, multiplying ac-
tion, fitted with new auto-
matic bobbin winder and full
set of attachments.
Complete with handsome Wal-
nut Cover
Cash Price
60/-
2ZZ
XsBl—The Silent “Empress” No.
2 Improved Lockstitch Hand and Treadle
Machine, on rigid iron frame, with polished
quartered Walnut Table, fitted with one drawer.
This machine is detachable, and can be used
quite apart from the stand. Otherwise as Silent
“Empress.” Complete with Walnut Cover
Cash Price 87/6
XsB3—The Silent “Perfecta” im-
proved Lockstitch Hand and Treadle Machine,
with extra-large table and four drawers, in
polished, quartered ' Walnut on Black and Gilt
Stand; complete with cover and full set of
attachments. Very light and easy running. We
have every confidence in recommending this
machine.
Cash Price ... £6/10;-
These machines will do anything a higher-priced one will do —fine, soft silk,
or the heaviest cloth and every conceivable class of Fancy Work, Embroidery, etc.,
etc., it works with equal adaptability and ease.
Needles and All Duplicate Parts Kept in Stock.
Obtainable only from
MELBOURNE’S PREMIER STORE,
BUCKLEY & NUNN LIMITED
BOURKE STREET.
ĝf
ƒg
ĝf
ƒĝ
ğ
■ ■ ■
The
NELSON
“Banker”
Carbonating Machine
Indispensable and Invaluable,; to
Live, Up=to=date Hotelkeepers.
The “BANKER” IS a perfect machine which represents the skilled effort of years to produce.
There is nothing made which meets the purpose so fully in every essential point. Many Hotelkeepers
who possess this wonderful machine acknowledge that much of tlaeir progress is due to the splendid
and efficient service rendered by the “BANKER.” The “BANKER produces aerated waters
quicker and better than any other machine. Improvements which dispense with out-of-date methods,
viz., Cylinder Rocking, Rubber Hose, etc., lias placed the “BANKER m the very front of
Carbonating machinery. They are highly economical, establishing a great saving in gas.
The “BANKER” is the soundest investment the Hotelkeeper can entertain. It will make
Aerated Waters for £4 that cost £2O from the manufacturer.
No one who handles Aerated Waters can afford to be without the “BANKER” machine. Your
competitors are using them, and if you do not—assuredly you will be the loser. Take Time by the
forelock —instal without delay, and reap some of the increased profits that are created by the
famous “BANKER” Carbonating machine. Write at once and learn all about it. Full particulars
and illustrated catalogue will be sent post free by return. ■
NELSON'S CARBONATING CO. LTD.
( »;
219 George Street, Sydney.
And at Turbot Buildings, Turbot Street, Brisbane
POILITE
ASBESTOS CEMENT
SHEETS and TILES.
(GUARANTEED GENUINE BRITISH MAKE.)
“ POILITE ” for Walls (inside and outside),
Ceilings, etc., is the modern building material that is
taking the place of all other materials, because of
its many distinct advantages.
“ POILITE ” is of such a nature that it improves
with age, becoming harder and better the longer
it is exposed, and does not crack. The quickness,
cleanliness and ease of “ POILITE ’’ construction
is a marked contrast to the delay, litter and con-
fusion inevitable with other materials.
‘‘POILITE” is Fire=proof, Ant=proof, Germ=
proof, Climate=proof, Warm in Winter, Cool
in Summer, Non»absorbent, Easily Nailed into
Position, and as Cheap as Weatherboard.
A Cottage erected of “ POILITE ” Sheets, inside and outside,
and roofed with “ POtUTE ” Tiles.
“POILITE” Asbestos Cement Sheets and Tiles are USED BY THE BRITISH WAR OFFICE.
The tender for the supply during three (3) years —1914, 1915, 1916 of “ Poilite ” Asbestos
Cement Roofing Slates, Wall and Ceiling Sheets, etc., made by the “ Poilite” Fa&ory in
England, has been accepted by the British War Office. This is proof positive that
“Poilite” is the most reliable material of its kind on the world’s market.
“POILITE ” Asbestos Cement Sheets are supplied in the following sizes : 4ft. x 4ft., 6ft. x 3ft.,
Bft. x 4ft. and 12ft. x 4ft.
“POILITE” Roofing Tiles are guaranteed British Standard thickness. They make attractive and
economical roofs, and do not affect rain water.
Write for free sample of “POILITE” and our Illustrated Catalog “ M.”
SOLE AGENTS;
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney) Ltd., 115 Clarence St., Sydney.
(Melbourne) Proprietary Ltd., 499-501 Bourke St., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS : CHAS. E. BERNAYS, 45 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.


iiiii ro w sA
*22 Rim Fire Cartridges
SHORT. LONG. LONG RIFLE.
No Corrosion.
Slight Pressure and High Velocity.
Uniformity Guaranteed.
Highest Grade of English Manufacture
Wholesale only—
Scottish House, 90 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
Kynoch House, 277 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY. rl ’
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident g Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
head office-
-14 MA-RTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360=6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH-
ED S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS.
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
Martin’s
Stores in
them. Be
signature,
I ills are sold by all Chemists and
Australasia. Ladies recommend
sure you get the genuine with the
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
Tho^K^ oUri l a^S u^ W 0 Bears >” by James Edmond,
ihe biggest shilling book ever published in Aus-
QV,;ir __and t ,' e readin &- A H booksellers, One
Shilling or direct from the publishers, The Platypus
■stamps * BathUrSt Street ’ S l' flne - V > for 13 penny
n't awe Boris to
AUSTRALIANS!!
INSURE
IN
THE
Fire, Marine, Accident, Five Stock.
AGENTS -EVERYWHERE.
HQ/seodtui BJ.MO buf//9MS' pot> butpaatg
45'
V :
''TRIPLeVt® CLOSING
EMASCULATOR.
This" SAFETY”
Emasculator
does away with all
risk of bleeding.
Postage Free 45/-
My "Hints on Castrating ”
enable any man used to Stock
to cut with the “Safety”
either Colts, Bulls, Rams, or
Boars. :
Other patterns of
Emasculators from
30/- to 50/-
Zoeller’s “Handy”
Castrating Knife, 3/6
is a lovely bit of Steel.
Carl Zoeller,
246 Queen Sti,
BRISBANE, Q.
Send for complete
Veterinary Catalog.
It’s FREE
Speaking of a public man in the pastoral
line who declares that nnitton will presently be Is.
per lb. all over Australia, the Melbourne Age ven-
tures to hope he is a false prophet. Wether prophets
often are.
Jack S. : W ill any kind Abo-liar explain
the social standing of one of the commonest yffest
Queensland spiders? This large, grey, bloated Speci-
men squats in the centre of a very strong golden web
3ft. odd in diameter, swung bv strong ropes
between the bull-oak saplings in the open fjjts. The
boss, or proprietorial spider, appears to do no other
work than that of wolfing the captures. As each
doomed wanderer hits the establishment he is rolled
up in fine web and dragged to the Centre of the
net and devoured to the marrow of his bones, which
are then thrown downstairs. The work of repairing
the web seems to devolve on numerous small spiders,
who, as far as I can ascertain, have no share in the
plunder. Are the little fellows tenants, slaves or
simply jspider-peeked husbands? [The Bulletin
doesn t guarantee that this spider exists. Strange
animals are sometimes invented by contributors who
want to earn a little loose change. Witness the tree-
climbing horse, the pious alligator, the scrub-cutting
eel, and the crayfish which tears up cactus and takes
’t to the waterhole and drowns it.]
* * * ,
“Camp”: There was an argument about
ghosts and Long Alick told the following tale:
“Shortly after I came to this country 1 was knock-
ing about Bendigo, out of a job, and down to my
last quid when I palled in with Dick Murphy. Dick
had a shed to go to up in Riverina, and he kidded
me to go along with him. I’d never seen a shearing
shed till that time, but he reckoned it was a dead
cert that I would be able to get on as a wool-
roller oi louseabout of some kind, so I chanced it.
We took the rattler to Echuca, but, being short of
coin anc 1 , having plenty of time, we shouldered our
knots from there. The second night on tramp we
camped alongside a billabong. A storm was workin’
up, and I proposed that we should make over to a
pub, which we had passed at the cross-tracks about
half a mile back. The fact was I felt footsore and I
wanted to sample some whisky, even if it cost me my
last bean. Dick didn’t want to go. He said he
reckoned the storm would blow over. However
by the time we had the billy boiled, the lightning’
began to flash and big drops of rain splashed about,
so I got my way and we adjourned to the pub.
After a few games of cut-throat euchre with the
landlord, and as many whiskies, Dick and me turned
in together. The pub was built anglewise on the
corner of the two roads. The angle between the two
wings of the straggling building was taken up with
a few gnarled and stunted fruit trees, which the
landlord called the orchard. I don’t know how long
I d slept; anyhow, when I opened my eyes I found
that the rain was all over, and that it was a clear
moonlight night. All of a sudden I saw the figure
of a woman lookin’ in through the open window.
She was dressed in a white nightgown, and had long
black hair failin’ round her face and shoulders. She
seemed to be. lookin’ straight at me, and her eyes
was shinin’ like two newly-lighted cigars. I felt
me oakum risin’ till it lifted me head up off the
Pillow. Then I saw that she was beckonin’ me with
her finger. Obeyin’ what those writer blokes on
Sydney Daily Herald would call ‘an irresistible
impulse, I slid out of bed, climbed through the
window, and followed the figure down through the
orchard. She stopped at the foot of an apple tree
pointed down to the ground, and then—she wasn’t
th f[. e ' * was scared some, and my bare knees
rattled together— yet I couldn’t turn tail for it to
save my life. Thinks I, ‘There’s an object in this
There’s been a murder, and the body’s buried under
that there tree. I’ll go and rouse Dick out quietly
and we 11 dig for it.’ Just then it struck me that I
mightn’t be able to pick the right tree when we
got back. But, thinks I, ‘l’ll mark it.’ So I stoops
down, digs my nails into the bark, and scratches for
all I’m worth. At the instant me nails scraped into
the bark I felt a terrible shock on me chest, and
another under me chin, and I heard Dick callin’ me
a whole terrace of poets an’ idiots, an’ askin’ what
I was clawin’ him for. But in the mornin’ there
was that very same woman at breakfast fshe was
the -barmaid), an’ being worried I sneaked ,out--an’
looked at the tree an’ found the marks of mv nails
on it, likewise my footprints. So I dug surreptitious-
like around the tree an’ found nothin’ but roots. Yet
when I left off diggin’ surreptitious-like an’ in
great perspiration, I found the woman watchin’ me,
an when she caught my eye she gave a shudder an’
paid me half a crown to leave off an’ go away. A
year after that I heard she was arrested for bigamv
so I don’t know really what all the fuss was about.’’’ ’
Burst of joy in the local newspaper:—
THANKS.
Amidst relations and other numerous friends of
Emraaville I declare a hearty and welcome vote of
thanks to Mrs. Sulloven and Mrs. G. Day for their
kindness in taking part in cellebrating send off party
in such a kindly manner and action as those two most
pressious and sociable ladies did in making it such a
success, and others for their presentations presented.
Remaining faithfully, thankfully, W. E. H. Finn.
“Ped” : Some short time ago a statement
was made by one Councillor Smyth, of Warragul
(Victoria), concerning the filthy state in which
cream was handled in his locality. He asserted that
such flavorings as sucking-pigs, rats, mice, flies and
maggots were discovered in the cream when it
reached the factories. He also stated that he knew
of dairies where maggots of exceptionally large dimen-
sions were to be found in the separators. Of course,
the eockies made a great howl, and “blarsted” things
UNCONSCIOUS CRITICISM.
ELECTIONEERING AGENT : :I suppose you'll drop down at dinner time and give the Reform
candidate a shove along."
THE MUD SHOVER : “I will not. If you was shovin' muck.along all the mornin' ye'd
want a change for a few minutes."
to some tune, but Smyth was correct. Not only
around Warragul, but almost throughout the
whole of Victoria are similar things met with. One
can quite imagine the maggots in the separator. I
have seen them; although not so large as those
described, by Councillor Smyth. The average dairy
cocky is very slovenly, and is averse to any scientific
and hygienic method of cleansing cans and separa-
tors. To spend five minutes scrubbing at an appar-
ently clean dish is to him as big a crime as .allowing
his manservant a full hour at dinner-time. Fre°
quently one of the youngsters has to look after the
cans arid, separator. I 'have often watched them dip
these utensils into lukewarm water and then hang
them out to'dry. The dairy can be kept absolutely
pic? - Ay- mouse and rat-proof if .the, cocky will only
spend a little time over it. Let him build a place (say )
15ft. x 12 ft. 'by 10ft. high; line it Thoroughly—wails
and ceiling—with lining boards, and put a cement
floor down; put in two windows and protect them
wjth gauze wire; also, have a wire door and gauze
wire covers for cream cans, and I guarantee his
cieani will contain none of the afore-mentioned
articles that is, provided the dairy is used exclu-
sively as a dairy and not as a general store-room and
butcher’s shop,
“Norbell”: Talking of pubs with odd
names, there used to be a wayside drinkery on the
road from ICatamatite to Yarrawonga (Vic.), known
as The Stinking Goat. I don’t think it was licensed
under that name, but no one ever called St SriV-thing
else. In Brunswick-street, Melbourne, The Labor In
Jain and The Perseverance are oft opposite corners.
Tim first used to display a striking picture of a man
trying to scrub a nigger white, whilst the opposition
hostelry had a work of art or something depicting
the operation successfully performed, with th§
legend, “Perseverance Rewarded.” On the tachkn
River at South Forbes (N.S.W.) there > a queer
little imbibery with the quaint sign, The Brave Heart.
Everyone in Sydney knows The ’Ole iA the Wall,
and I have noticed the poetic pub nomenclature in
Woolloomooloo, Sydney. They have there The Bells
The Little House Under the Hill, and The Cottage of
Content, this last suggesting gable-ends and honey-
suckle and peaceful old grandmothers knitting socks
in a garden with a fat gat for company.
The Dnimmer” ; Several of Us Were sit-
ting in the parlor Of the £ub having a quiet drink
and y&rfii 'The land ford had left the bar a couple
of times tb attend to our irrigation, and as he was
without assistance what followed was a cinch-. A
stranger had gone in and asked for & glass of a wfefl-
known brand of whifeky. As t'hfetfe was no brittle open
a fresh one was tdkeh front the Shelf, opened, ahd
passed tb the custdmfer. The latter had his. drink,
t»aid for it, and weht outside. In a short time he
returned with another stranger, apparently a friend
whom hie ha'd hot met for a while, and thev cele-
brated the meeting ih the usual way. The late-
comer called for a beer, and the first man for the
same brand as he had had before. They stopped
chatting over their drink, and the publican came
m to answer our bell. When he returned to the bar
the two men finished their drinks and left. By-and-
b.ve some more customers came along, one of whom
asked for whisky, and was handed the same brand as
tle other had had. Then came the explosion. It
was the same brand all right, but not the same bottle,
and the contents were cold tea. Of course the expla-
nation was easy. Mr. Takedown went in first to find
out how much whisky the bottle with his favorite
brand held, then he went out to his mate, who had
a similar bottle full of cold tea under his coat, and
it was then emptied to correspond with the
hotel bottle. During the next round of drinks the
bottles were exchanged. The beauty of the scheme
lay in its simplicity and the hearty cheers of the
publican.
“Ginger”: At a Jerilderie (N.S.W.) show
in the old Orsetralian days Frank Delapare, station
super, standing among a group of squatters, quietly
drawled that he held a hundred of the best to say
there wasn t a man and horse at the show would
follow him and Wyee for an hour. The money was
covered while the challenge was still piping hot, and
MacPheraon—a local squatter--and Delapare mounted
forthwith. Frank galloped up the footpath till he
came to the pub door* where he swung round arte
cleared the water-trough built into the pub veran-
dah. The Spouting brushed his hat off. The
squatter followed, but Carried the spouting- away Ort
his right shoulder. As they bore down the street a
John Hop Sought to arrest them on a charge of
furious cantering. Delapare grabbed the law’s
helmet in his flight and replaced his lost cady with
It. A deserted pram holding the banker’s twins
stood in the middle of the road. Wyee took it in
rief tetridfe, jind the Joker, McPherson’s horse, rose in
the air as Wyee landed. Delapare turned into the
residential part of the town, and flew in and out
of the backyards, among clothes lines, family wash-
ings and Other features of the landscape. But; the
Joker hurig oh. Things bedame monotonous; So t)ela-
pare threw the backyards of Jerilderie over his left
shbulder and fetreafeed up the stock route till he
Oanie to m Billabong. lialf-way aerdss the bridge
hg swung rbund and touched Wyee with his heels.'
The pair tOs@, cleared the railing, and, landing fail 1
ill the stfeam, swam Safely ashore. When they re-
gained the bridge the Squatter was waiting there to
Say he wasn’t insured against suicide. There was
Very little of the .hundred left next morning.
“Cleveland": For hurry and haste I
award the prise chop to fulminate of mercury, and
my reason is contained in this simple narrative. When
the furze that now adorns my dial Was mere down,
and I Was in an agony of doubt as to whether it was
going to Mature, into bristles of feathers, I was sent
out from a logging damp with dynamite and detona-
tors to blast any boulders in the “crick” that might'
cause a jamb when driving operations were com-
menced My companion was a Scot named Davey,
Who had a permanent grudge against humanity gener-
ally, and a positive hatred of the juvenile part of it
iii particular. He also had a keen horroi’ of high
explosives, but he had been included in the party on
account of his reputed prowess with the jumper drill,
I did not lessen his fears by describing the peril that
attended even the slightest jolt of the latent inferno
that I was carrying, and I mentioned that a spark
from any of our steel tools would certainly be the
end of both of us. As a result, he undertook to hump
the drills, axes, billhooks, a 7ft. 6in. crosscut saw,
all the camp impedimenta and sundries, provided I
kept a safe distance behind him and carried the
parcel of combustibles. We commenced operations
about 10 miles from the main camp, shifting along
towards it as we cleared successive sections of the
crick. On the third day a man came along with
some tucker for us. lie also brought a letter for
Davey. I don’t think Davey had ever had a letter
before. He read and re-read it as long as daylight
lasted ; then, as we lay on- opposite sides of the fire
after tea, he hung over the flame and perused it some
more. He was engaged thus when I dug what must
have been a detonator out of my pocket, where I had
been exploring for matches, and tossed the handful
of rubbish into the fire. The fire, a small, tidv one,
suddenly decided to be Vesuvius. I was blown into
the bed of the “crick,” discovered that I was alight
in 27 places, had a mouth full of sand and ears full
of ashes, and my nose was closed to navigation. I
found Davey five minutes afterwards gouging mar-
garine out of his hair and cinders out of his boots.
It appears that he had collided with the larder. It
took me half an hour to convince him that, under
_ certain conditions, gas accumulates under fires when
' lighted on certain ground, and I described how a regi-
ment of Sikhs had been thus pulverised in Southern
India. Had he known he would just about have
nipped a promising career in the bud, and my share
of the proceedings would have been to supply the
corpse.
THE IMPORTANT THING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw him rocking down a road
That led from Melbourne city.
In vulgar phrase he had his load.
He sang a rousing ditty,
And with a bottle proudly waving
lie beat time to his lyric raving.
A motor came behind, arid hit
Him thirty feet or. further.
Upon his wretched neck he lit.
It looked like plain old murther.
The chauffeur wrought another blunder,
And when he stopped the man was under.
the car was raised, the man dragged out,
I The doctor’s verdict spoken.
Said he: “There isn't any doubt
The leg and arm are broken."’ .
Then sighed the dusty' victim: “What'll
1 care at all, sor? 'Tain’t the bottle!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.
THE RACE IS TO THE CUTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When old Jos Wiley’s daughter fled
With Danny Cook from Sandy Bar,
On horses grey they rode ahead.
•Jos followed in a motor-car—-
A car of quite uncommon power,
To cut out sixty miles an hour.
Old Wiley took the smooth, white track.
His smile was sweet as it could be.
“At four I’ll have my daughter back—
The race is to the swift.” said he.
As into Teddy’s Well he tore
Ten sheep lay weltering in their gore.
At Toolembuck at three o’clock
Jean wed the bloke from Sandy Bar.
The country-side now makes a mock
Of Wiley and his motor-car.
At ten small towns by Dan’s contriving.
They bailed Jos up for furious driving !
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


>•
■a*
A-i
• •
'% •• ,•>
tiL *
t
L
f
; ■
PsPhc
•' ? •'*
'
g]f .‘ ■' •• •
■ O ¥!
r ;-Hv
0
' /;
n£’?
mmm
■
■
fti
■
f jij
mßm.
M
m
M
m
"fe >
V\*
km
§&
■
.
.
m
II
111
: :
v ‘ ■
*
■
24
K-wefi
«1
.
: -.*
, : V
I
S 3
m^\
Hi
H
tMI:
■n
■
f mm
a®
M
"'• v -
CKtmiUr-fMrm. •
■


SIEMENS
iXtafeg,
*** Wl *W
CORE TYPE TRANSFORMER, showing Oil Expansion Chamber,
Corrugated Case, and windings with Tappings assembled
upon Core.
Points Merit in
Siemens Standard Oil-Cooled
Transformers:
Electrical Design—
o
Most modem and efficient.
Rigid Mechanical Design—•
Preventing- humming or distortion of Coils during
short circuit.
Efficient Cooling-
o
Giving long life, security against burn-outs, and
reducing maintenance charges.
Special Oil Expansion Chamber —
Preventing trouble with oil.
Carefully Selected Oil —
Of high quality—free from water.
Portable, complete with Oil—
Facilitating transport from site to site.
Quotations and Litevatuve on Application .
Siemens Bros. Dynamo Works
LIMITED.
42 Bridge Street,
SYDNEY.
59-61 William Street
MELBOURNE.
Telegraphic Address—
SIEMENS, SYDNEY or MELBOURNE.
The Boon of Discontent.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Discontent is evident in every country in the world,
and there appears to be no sovereign remedy for
unrest.— Wisdom from the daily papers.
Once an anthropoidal ape,
Hairy, savage, strange of shape,
On a day that was excessively 8.c.,
In a forest damp and dim,
With his tail around a limb,
Hung head downward from a neolithic tree ;
And appeared to be lost in gloomy introspec-
tion.
In his dull, primeval style
He considered quite a while—
A comparatively thoughtful ape was he—
Then he drummed upon his chest,
And remarked: “I give it best!
Strike me lucky! This ’ere game’s no good
to me!
And I’m full up of the whole damn busi-
ness !”
To the father of the tribe
He proceeded to describe
How upon a change of living he was bent.
Said that Tory anthropoid :
“Son, such thoughts you should avoid ;
They are obviously born of discontent.
And such revolutionary notions would rend
the whole social fabric.”
Since the Eocene,
Till thin age of biplanes,
Man has ever been
Yearning toicard the high planes.
And while the Tory lags behind in by-ways
worn and narrow,
'Tis the discontented section that shoves on
the old world’s barrow.
Once a naked troglodyte,
On a bitter Winter’s night,
Sat and shivered in his cave the whole night
through!
For his scanty coat of hair
In no manner could compare
With the matted clothes his late forefather
grew.
(Meaning the meditative anthropoidal ape I
mentioned previously.)
And the troglodyte remarked.
As without a wild dog barked.
And a dinosaurus lumbered through the fog,
“I am sick of nakedness,
And I’d like, I must confess,
To be shielded in the clothing of a dog.
And, hang me, if I don’t go after one in the
.morning!”
He was met with scoffs and grins,
When he walked abroad in skins ;
And the troglodyte Conservatives cried:
“Shame!
Thus to hide the healthy nude
Is obscene, indecent, rude!”
But the malcontent felt warmer, all the
same.
And so began the evolution of the split skirt
and the hot sock.
Since the Age of Stone,
To these Days of Reason,
Man has keener grown
In and out of season.
’Tis through being discontented that human-
ity progresses.
If you’re satisfied with dog skins you will
ne’er have satin dresses.
Once upon a time, a slave
Had an impulse to behave
In a most unprecedented sort of style.
He threw down his tools, and cried
That he wasn’t satisfied.
And all slavery was barbarous and vile.
(They probably boiled him in oil; but that’s
merely incidental.)
Once again, a man who rode
In a coach disliked the mode
Of that locomotion. ’Twas too slow by far.
He was filled with discontent;
So he-—or some other—went
And, in course of time, evolved the motor-car.
And, if evey you’ve had one scare seven
devils out of you, you’ll know it for a
very great invention.
So, observe, this discontent
To mankind is wisely sent
That he may be urged along to conquer new
things,
They who were quite satisfied,
Like the Dinosaurus, died,
While the discontented anthropoids still do
things.
And continue to be discontented, of course;
but that’s all in the game.
Since the age of apes,
To this generation.
Mankind thus escapes
Absolute stagnation.
Here’s the only consolation my philosophy is
giving:
Discontentment with existence is your sole
excuse for living.
VICTORIA.
DEN.
Area Officers, Sweated and Overpaid.
A question that has been ripe for discussion
for some considerable time hinges on the pay
of Area Officers. The whole matter clamors
for re-adjustment on an equitable basis. At
present, all area officers, both in the towns
and in the country, get a flat wage or screw
of £l5O per year. So far as many of them
are concerned it is too much ; in the case of
others, it is utterly inadequate. A, for in-
stance, has a small town area. It contains
100 boys and one post office. In his work-
ing hours A is a dentist or a solicitor. During
an absurdly brief period, every week, he
attends to the work of his area. He can’t
attend to the work for a longer period, by
reason of the fact that the work isn’t there.
This leaves him all the time he wants to do
his real life’s work. And, in addition, he
gets £l5O per annum for a job that he would
cheerfuly dash off for a sovereign per week.
B, on the other hand, has a country area.
It may be hundreds of square miles in ex-
tent. It is bis duty to train all cadets
within five miles of every township or centre
which it contains. Where the supervisor of
a town area may have one or two schools to
attend to, the country officer is liable to have
30 or 40, or more. Where the town officer
travels a yard in the execution of his mili-
tary duty, the countryman travels miles.
Indeed, the latter has to be away from his
home for weeks, during every year, if his job
is to be done efficiently. Also, and this is
perhaps the most important' consideration*
of all, the offiper in charge of a city area has
nothing to do with the citizen forces; that is
to say, the moment a boy reaches the age of
18 years he passes out of his area officer’s
hands and As-allotted to a regimen t.~TTn the
Country in many—in fact, most —cases there
is no regiment available to receive the lad
who has ceased by effluxion of time to be a
senior cadet. In all such cases the area
officer is responsible for him. He (the
officer) has to attend to the new citizen
soldier’s training, pay, equipment, and so
on ; he has to prosecute him if he shirks his
drill; and take the blame if he is found to be
inefficient. And all for £3 per week. Most
of the town officers have been expecting, for
some time, to have their small areas taken
away from them, and consolidated into larger
areas. The original idea was that, when this
occurred, the officers who were put in charge
of the enlarged areas should get an extra
£3O per annum apiece. Even with the added
work, due to bigger city areas, this rate of
pay would be liberal. As regards area
officers in the country, on the other hand,
it would still be inadequate. Whatever the
authorities may decide is a fair thing for
the area officer in the city—who, as above-
mentioned, is, in nearly all cases, something
else during his working hours, and a soldier
merely in (his spare time —this much is
certain —that the men in charge of the coun-
try areas deserve better pay. At present, in
return for a lot of arduous clerical and ad-
ministrative work, almost continuous travel,
and a vast amount of serious responsibility,
they are paid the stipend of a day-laborer ;
and not given an opportunity to add to it
by outside toil either. In fact, the Common-
wealth is sweating some of the very last men
in the community who should be so sweated.
Trees, Butter-boxes and Sundries.
Dear Bulletin, —If they don’t look out the
butter-makers will soon have another trouble
besides margarine on their hands. Practi-
cally all their boxes are made out of white
pine, an easily-worked timber with no taste
or smell to it. Apparently it is so far ahead
of known competitors that when a Sydney
co., a while back, imported what was re-
garded as the next-best, it made a heavy loss
on the deal. But the white pine never was
a very numerous vegetable in Maoriland, and
already two or three sawmills have eaten up
all in their neighborhood and are shut down.
And no white pine is being planted, because,
it seems, the vegetable grows so slowly that
it couldn’t possibly arrive at maturity until
long after the present supply is exhausted.
There is a poorer excuse even than that for
Maoriland’s failure to replace its kauri for-
ests, after building up a fine market for this
sort of pine. Most bushland grows at least
a mob of cows after the timber has been got
rid of; but unless kauri country grows more
kauri it will grow nothing worth mentioning.
At any rate, no cow or other species of cab-
bage has been discovered that thrives on
earth which has been saturated with kauri
resin. Therefore that earth should be used
for new kauri, in order to keep the business
alive. But it takes 20 or 30 years to grow
a new tree, while it takes only a few months
to grow a new loan, and that makes all
the difference. There are two countries in
particular that ought to be a horrible ex-
ample to the timber-destroying races. One
is Spain, where the great central plateau
has become a treeless, barren, wind-swept
waste, bleak in winter, sun-smitten in sum-
mer, struck by sudden floods that come and
go in a few hours, harassed by
droughts, and almost lacking in surface
soil. Another is Southern Palestine, where
timber has been practically extermin-
ated. The soil has gone after the
trees, being washed away by spasmodic rain-
falls which had nothing to detain them. And
now the white, bare, polished skull of the
limestone land makes the traveller’s eye ache
with plain misery. Incidentally, vast regions
of the TJ.S. are going a similar road. The
timber is cut down, whole forests at a time,
to make paper on which to print the yellow
journal. And the yellow journal neither
affords shade, nor retains moisture, nor brings
down rain, nor shelters the birds that eat the
grubs that destroy the farmers’ corn. It
isn’t scenery, and it casts no shadow on a
hot day, except in the form of curses and
aspersions.—Yours, etc.,
P. X.
“Scotch Moses” writes :
Glasgow detectives are under grave suspicion of
having worked-up a bad case against one Oscar Slater,
a German Jew, who was convicted of the murder ot
Miss Gilchrist five years ago. The man's sentence was
commuted to penal servitude for life, otherwise he
would have been now dead beyond redemption. Miss
G. was an old maid, living in a flat along with £3OOO
worth of jewellery. A burglar caught her alone in
her room one night, murdered her and got away
with the jewellery, or some of it. Turn people on
the premises caught sight of the murderer leaving
the flat, but didn’t get a good look at him. A
young girl swore that she saw a man rush from
the building, and she subsequently got £lOO reward
for identifying Slater as the man. The case against
the German Jew was based on the facts that he had
gone around Glasgow trying to sell the pawn-ticket
for a diamond brooch, presumed to be one of the
brooches stolen from Miss Gilchrist s room, and had
afterwards gone off to America with a woman under
an assumed name. The police, hearing of the pawn-
ticket incident, decided that he was the murderer,
and got a warrant for his arrest. When they brought
him hack from America he was positively identified
bv the girl who got the . £lOO reward
for so doing, and less positively identified
by the other witnesses, but these others had in tne
meantime identified a previous suspect, against whom
there was no case whatever. Oscar Slater was con-
victed mainly on the evidence of the pawn-ticket, and
the £lOO girl who swore that she saw him flee from
the house the night when Miss G. was murdered But
the pawned brooch proved to be not one ot tne
Gilchrist .possessions, and it is now said that tne
£lOO girl saw a man rushing out of the Gilcnrisi
domicile on another night than the one she swore
to The evidence as it now stands wouldn tbe good
enough to hang a cat. Slater had pawned a valuable
brooch, and naturally he wanted to raise some more
money on the ticket before getting away to America
with a girl. He booked his passage under an
assumed name for the same reason, or reasons, a
many other men have for doing the same thing.
The’ “identification” of him was forced upon the
witnesses bv the detectives, and his German Jewish-
ness made it easy for the jury to believe that he
stole the diamonds. All the same, it is hard to
understand how any Judge could have thought it
possible for any Jew to be such a fool of a murderer
as to “pop” his victim’s jewellery in a local pawn-
shop, and then go hawking the tickets around town,
which Slater was supposed to have done when tne
police took up the “due. ’


ġf
s
w.
i
w,
u
WftXCH'T
ItC-HEAWMI
xSF
Keep Hearne's
in the House
for c & COLDS
“We have used Hearne’s Bron-
chitis Cure many times, and found
it to be a quicK and sure remedy for
Coughs and Colds. We recommend it
to all our friends, and we would never
be without a bottle in the house.”
L. WILLIAMS,
Darlinghurst. N.S.W.
“We cannot speak too highly
of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure. We are never without
a bottle in the house, because
we have found it the surest
and quickest remedy for
Coughs and Colds. We al-
ways recommend it to all our
friends.”
D. COOPER,
Summer Hill, Sydney.
“We always use your Bron-
chitis Cure in our home, and
have never had anything to equal
it for Coughs and Colds in both
children and adults. Relief is im-
mediate after taking first dose.”
E. ADAMS,
Mullaley, via Gunnedah, N.S.W.
Price, 2/6 & 4/6
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to
W. G. Heame & Co. Ltd.
Geelong', Victoria
A H ;
s :
t
!L;
E
N
i
ITS
i»3
*
If!
o=
0
D
Theßoyal Commission
in their final report on Tuberculosis,
recently issued, clearly showed that
the chief danger to child life resulted
from the use of infected cow’s milk.
To quote one extract : “The Evi-
dence we have accumulated goes to
demonstrate that a considerable
amount of the tuberculosis of child-
hood is to be ascribed to infection
transmitted to children in meals
consisting largely of the milk of
the cow.”
When the mother’s milk is not
available, the “Allenburys” Foods
form the best substitute, as they are
practically identical with healthy human milk
m composition, nutritive value and digestibility,
and are absolutely free from all harmful germs.
Milk Food No. I. From birth to 3 months
Milk Food No. 2. From 3to 6 months
Malted Food No. 3. From 6 months upwards
The ‘AUenhurys' Rusks. A
valuable addition to baby's dietary
wuen ten months old and after These
Kuslcs are specially useful during til ■
troublesome time of teething. When
eaten raw they mechanically aid the
cutting of teeth.
-Sllenburus
Foods
promote sound sleep, ensure
vigorous heal'h and develop-
ment, and represent the most
successful method of Infant
Feeding ever devised.
Pamphlet on ‘ Infant Feeding and Management” sent free.
Allen 8 Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng., and Market St., Sydney
WHAT IS
J
r
Golcryst is made from Epsom Salts,
Senna, Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liq-
uorice and Ginger. That seems a
good combination of useful medi-
cines for Constipation, Rheumatism,
Impure Blood, Pimples, Boils,
Stomach and Liver Troubles.
So popular has this remedy become in
Australia that Golcryst may be regarded
as the National Aperient.
Packets 3d., 6d. & 11-
If you cannot obtain locally, write to
the Proprietors,
Rocke, Tompsitt 8 Co.,
MELBOURNE,
FOR A FREE SAMPLE PACKET. [1
“THE LONE HAND” for Good Stories and Bright Articles. Price 6d.


£3lO/-
SI
Lady’s Solid Gold, Improved
Hunting, Keyless WATCH,
}-plate, full .jew-
elled Lever move-
ment, patent, ad-
justed balance,
accurate, reliable,
£3/10/- Higher
grade, £4.
£4
as
Latest
Style
Silk
llibbon
Guard,
9ct.
Gold
Mounts
and Shield,
Single,
22/6.
Double,
£2.
Australia’s Great Watch House!
AUNDERS
Sydney’s leading jeweller
8/6
Lady’s Black, Open Face
Keyless WATCH, full jewelled,
dust and waterproof cases, ac-
curate, reliable, 8/6.
Higher grades, 10/-, 12/6,
15/-, 20/-, 25/-
10|-
55]-
m
mm
Gent.’s Patent, 10 years’ guaranteed. Gold
Cased, Hunting, Keyless WALTHAM
WATCH, full jewelled, compensation bal-
ance, dust and waterproof cases. Accur-
ate, reliable, 55/- 20 years’ guaran-
teed, £4/4/- Solid Gold, £6/10/-,
£7/10/-, up to £3O.
60/-
The PRACTICAL WATCHMAKER.
The House famed all over Australasia for
good Timekeepers, Accurate and Reliable.
WRITE FOR FREE WATCH BOOKLET.
Lady’s Solid
WATCH, full
Higher
£5.
Gold, Patent Expanding WRISTLET
iewelled, reliable movement. Accurate.
Grade, £5/10/-, £O/10/-
ORDER
BY MATE.
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
12,6
15|-
Gent.’s Nickel, Open Face, Keyless
LEVER, full jewelled- patent, adjusted
balance, non-magnetic time spring, dust
and waterproof cases, 12/6, 157-
Higher Grade, 20/-, 25/- Guaranteed.
20/-
25/-
40/-
Lady’s Gold, Open jFace Key-
less WATCH, fancy dial, full
jewelled, adjusted balance, ac-
curate, reliable, £2.
Higher grades, £2/10/-
£3/10/-
50/-
25/-
Gent.’s Solid Nickel Silver, Hunting, Key-
less LEVER WATCH, high-grade move-
ment, engine-turned cases, non-magnetic
full jewelled, dust and waterproof eases,
25/- Higher Grade, 30/- Solid Sil-
ver, 30/-, 35/- Extra jewelled, 40/-,
50/-, 60/-, up to £5.
301-
807-817 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
251-
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless LEVER WATCH, f-
plate, patent, adjusted move-
ment, 25/-. 30/-. Higher
grades, 35/-, 40/-, 50/-,
60/-
50|-
LADY’S
WRISTLET
WATCH,
Oxidised
Case,
reliable
movement,
Morocco
or other
Leather
Straps,
10/-,
12/6\
15/-,
20/
gf
10/-
Ladv’s Wristlet
WATCH.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Add Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
DINNEFORD’S
iuizkiw;
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“ DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Bemedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
«•
99
SOCKS and
STOCKINGS.
Insist on having t You will like them
better than any * you have ever worn.
Because th -y are better. The perfectly knitted all-wool texture;
the unshrinkableness ; the soft silky feel; the fast hygienic dyes
and the beautiful snug fit make "<5® AOVil the best hose you can
have. There is an immense range * of styles and colour-
ings in '4a6QT£ amongst them just those you will like. And
tney cost no more than you would pay for the
ordinary kind.
”&Ud<n£ Socks and Stockings are made in all styles
an 1 prices for men, ladies, and children. If
your dealer does not slock them insist upon his getting
them for you.
In case of difficulty, write
JASON HOSIERY CO.. LEICESTER, ENGLAND.
Aha 2
m
ryt.
WT.
REMINGTON
l UMC
Shot
Cartri
n i innlH
un
ties
sms
in
Hill 11
You want dependability—freedom from
all the nagging little annoyances that uncer-
tain shotgun cartridges can throw into a
good day’s sport. Then ask your dealer for
Arrow or Nitro Club (smokeless) or New
Club black powder shotgun cartridges in the
box with the Remington-UMC red ball marjk.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
New York Londo*
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
P. O. Box 686 Melbourne
t i
IN
I
A Favorite the World Around.
Full octagon barrel, 24in., 4slb. .22, .25, or
.32 calibre.
Automatic ejector in .22 calibre.
The FAVORITE RIFLE No. 27
For Sale by all Dealers in the Com-
monwealth.
Latest Rifle and Shotgun Catalogs and full
information supplied by
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. STEVENS ARMS & TOOL
CO MPANY, C.P.O. Box 86, Adelaide, South Australia. [3
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size- Price. 21s.


The London Bank of Australia Limited
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up
Uncalled, including Reserve Liability
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£2,886,067 10 O
1,276,747 10 O
548,392 10 O
728,355 O 0
313,978 12 11
Board of D [RECTORS :
DAVID FINLAYSON, Eso., Chairman.
ROBERT TAMES BLACK, Esq.
GORDON HUNTLY CAMPBELL, Esq.
ANDREW CUNNINGHAM, Eso.
Hon. Sir ARTHUR LAWLEY, G.C.S.I.
EDWARD VINCENT REID, Eso.
GEORGE SLADE, Eso.
DIRECTORS' REPORT.
Presented at the Ordinary General Meeting of Proprietors, held at Winchester House, Old Broad Street, E.C. (Hall No. 174),
at 12 o'clock noon, on Wednesday, 29th April, 1914.
The Directors present their Report accompanied as usual by Audited Accounts for
the year ended .‘list December last.
The profit as shown by the Annual Statement after deducting manage-
ment charges, aW taxes, including the Federal Land Tax and State Gov-
ernment Land Taxes, providing for all bad and doubtful debts, and
writing down investments to values current at 31st December last,
amounts to .. .. •• ■■ •• •• •• £111,437 12 2
To which is added the amount brought forward 25,002 11. S
After providing for
Interest at 44% on Transferable Deposit
the year .. . . • • • •
Transfer to Reserve Fund ( making it £270,000)
Grant to Officers’ Provident Fund
makin
Receipts for
together £150,550 3 11
£25.3,27
50,000
2,000
there remains £59,203 0 2
from which has to be deducted the Interim Dividends
for six months ended 30th June, 1913, paid 3rd
November, 1913 .. .. .. .. •• •• •• •• 1-»,224 7 5
leaving a balance to be dealt with of £43,978 12 11
Which the Directors recommend be appropriated as follows: —
Dividend of 7% per annum on the Preference Shares
for the six months ended 31st December, 1915 .. £0.017 11 0
Dividend of 7% per annum on Ordinary Shares for the
same period 12, 551) 10 9 ()
leaving a balance to be carried forward to next account of £25,071 11 2
In consequence of the profitable realisation of assets taken over from the Old Rank
the Directors decided to pay the balance of the Transferable Deposits which these assets
represented, although they would not have matured until Ist July, 1917. lhis was
done on Ist April last, thus removing the restrictions as to the distribution of the profits
available for dividend on the Ordinary Shares.
From the surplus recovered on what has been sold of these old assets, £85,000 has
been written off the value of the Bank Premises, and £50,000 has been added to the
Reserve Fund in addition to the £5.0,000 from profits,
The remaining assets to be realised, in the opinion of the Board, afford ample
margin of value over and above the relative debts as they appear in the books, and it is
anticipated that from this source a further surplus will be recovered available for
Reserves.
The payment of these deposits has been made without disturbing the Bank’s active
business, but if the Bank is to keep pace with the stwr.dil.v-expanding trade of Australia,
and to obtain its fair share of it, it is advisable that its capital resources should be
increased. The Directors, therefore, have called up the balance of £2 10s. per' share
which is available for this purpose, making the shares £lO paid, and the notice of Call
payable accompanies (his report.
They also propose to offer shortly to the Shareholders the remaining unissued
Ordinary Capital, consisting of 12,500 shares.
Mr. Edward Vincent Reid, the Ordinary Director retiring under the provisions of the
Bank’s Articles of Association, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
In consequence of the repayment of the outstanding Transferable Deposit Receipts,
Directors will no longer be elected to represent Depositors. Messrs. Gordon Iluutly
Campbell. Andrew Cunningham, and the Don. Sir Arthur Lawley, who have hitherto
held the position of Depositors’ Directors, are eligible for: re-election as Ordinary Directors
of the Bank, and offer their services to the Shareholders in that capacity. The Directors
feel that, the Hank cannot do better than retain the valuable services of these gentlemen,
whom they recommend for re-election by the Shareholders, and the necessary resolutions
to give effect to this will be submitted to the Meeting.
The Bank’s Auditors, Messrs. Price, Waterhouse & Co., retire, and again offer them-
selves for re-election.
The transfer books are closed from the 14th April to 2Dth April, both days inclusive.
Warrants for Dividends, less Income Tax, will be issued, payable on and after the
Ist May next, to those Shareholders whose names appear on the Register on the 14th
instant.
Bv order of the Board,
W. 11. BARBER.
London Manager and Secretary.
71 Old Broad Street.
London, E.C., 16th April 11)14.
BALANCE-SHEET, 31st DECEMBER, 1913.
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital—
-61,608 Ordinary Shares of £22 10 0 . . . . £1,386,067 10 0
150,000 Preference Shares of £lO 0 0 .. .. 1,500,000 0 0
£2,886,067 10 0
Subscribed Capital—
-49.103 Ordinary Shares
of . . £22 10 0 £1,104.817 1U 0
Less Uncalled £122,757 10 0
Reserve Lia-
bility £613,787 10 0
— 736,545 0 0
being £7 10s. per share £368,272 10 0
Amount prepaid by Trustees
in respect of—
Uncalled Capital and Reserve
Liability .. . . . . 8,100 0 0
£376,462 10 0
17,193 Preference Shares of
£lO, fully paid .. .. 171,980 0 0
Capital Paid up £548.892 10 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . 270,000 0 0
Balance of undivided Profit .. .. .. .. 43,978 12 11
Transferable Deposit Receipts . . . . . . • . .
Denosit and Current Accounts . . . . . • • • • •
Bills Payable and other Liabilities (including reserves for doubtful debts)
Notes in Circulation (secured as per contra)
£862,371 2 11
546.408 4 4
4,943,869 10 7
971 A 98 8 9
8,343 10 0
£7.332.890 10
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion. Cash Balances, Government Notes, and
Notes of other Banks .. .. •• .. £1,196,385 4 4
Money at Call and Short Notice in London . . . . 80.000 0 0
Investments and Bills Receivable on hand and in transit 1,402,357 17 4
Investments held by Trustees against Notes in Circulation 12,500 0 0
Bills Discounted, Advances and other Assets
Bank Premises
1.691,243 1 8
■•.'358*777 14 11
70 0 0
£7,332,800 If!
Statement of Profits for the Year ended December, 19 13-
: T 4'r.x Kill ft
Balance of undivided Profit, as per last Report . .
Less —Dividend for the year ended olst Decembei, ALL—
Profit in London and in Australia after providing for Intent due and accrued on Current Defiosits,
deducting Rebate on Bills and making provision to! bad and doubtful debts
Less- -Salaries and General Expenses in Australia-induding remuneration to
Local Directors, Rent. Rates. Repairs SA ’ i.'iditorC
Salaries and General Expenses m Itomdon— including Directois and Auditors
Fees, Rent, Repairs. Stationery, Telegrams, etc. . . .. ....
Land Tax, Income Tax and Tax on Note Issue • •
£86.747 3
12.008
12,270
Deduct —lnterest at 41% on Transferable Deposit Receipts
Transfer to Reserve Fund • •
Grant to Officers’ Provident 1* und
£25.627 3 0
50.000 0 0
2.000 0 0
Less —Interim Dividend paid 3rd November. 1013
Balance of undivided Profit as above.
£55.541 6
30,448 14
£25.002 11 8
£223,002 2 9
- 111,564 10 6
111,437 12 3
£43,978 12 11
AUDITORS’ REPORT. . i ,
We certify that we have obtained all the information and explanations we have’ from'rtie
tiiat we have examined the above balance-sheet with the boohsi at the: Head Office and toe letwins tiom the
tranches, and in our opinion it is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and coirect vi.w ot the state ot the
Bank’s affairs according to the best of orn- information and the explanations given to us. and as shown by such
books and returns. PRICE. WATERHOUSE & CO., Auditors.
London, Otli April, 1914.
D. FINLAYSON,
ARTHUR HAWLEY
E. V. REID.
Director
w. 11. BARBER. London Manager & Secretary.


THE DANGER OF WORMS.
Stomach and intestinal worms are one of
the most common complaints throughout
Australasia. Indigestion is a primary
cause, or they may be produced by consti-
pation, or through the eating of tainted food
or food improperly cooked. There is also the
possibility of their introduction into the
system in the form of cysts or germs in
fruit and meat, so that all classes of the
community, irrespective of age, are liable to
this complaint. It is not alone the irrita-
tion and annoyance caused by these para-
sitical animals that infest the stomach and
bowels, but the more serious consequences
which follow that must be kept in view.
From the highly organised and sensitive
parts which they occupy, worms give rise
to great constitutional derangements, and
produce a variety of symptoms, more par-
ticularly affecting the stomach and head.
Many cases of convulsions, epilepsy, hys-
teria, St. Vitus’ dance, melancholia, nervous
diseases and even insanity, have resulted
from this cause. If the patient has a ten-
dency to any weakness, the neglect to eradi-
cate the worms from the system must in-
evitably cause the emaciation of the whole
body and a general breakdown of the whole
organism.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal preparation
for the eradication of worms in children and
adults. For sale bv all chemists and store-
keepers, price 2s. 9d. per packet, or will be
sent post paid at the same price by The
W. 11. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Church Hill, Sydney.*
i ootballers, players and managers are now
pretty busy. And the busier the better, so
long as they keep their best energies in top-
notch form by an occasional and wise buck-
up with King George IV. topnotch whisky.*
810-SHOWMEN!
THERE’S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street
*
HORSESHOE
SALMON
is even better than fresh fish
BECAUSE
It is CooKed in Sealed Tins—there-
fore none of the goodness can escape.
DELICIOUSLY FRESH.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A man of The Bulletin’s acquaintance
had two experiences last week. He had a Fed-
eral 10s. note refused on the Manly ferry
wharf, on the ground that the ruffian in
charge “didn’t believe in the things.” Also, he
tried to buy some toy flags at one of Sydney's
biggest universal provideries for a child’s
birthday celebration, and was told that they
didn’t stock the Australian flag. Appar-
ently the oriflamme of France or the old
blacksmith’s apron of Persia, or the skull-
decked banner of Ashantee might have been
procured, but the symbol of Australia- —
never.
THE ULTIMATUM.
For the Farmers and Settlers’ Association to quarrel
with the Liberal League over the selection of the
anti-Socialist bunch of Senate candidates would be
fatal to both. —Sydney Telegraph.
The Heavyweight: “Look here, Cocky,you've
got to support me or we both go down.'”
Westralia still clings tenaciously to the
old English law of imprisonment for debt.
All over the State, each local Court day sees
a herd of slow- or non-payers sent up for
weeks and months. Before the Labor party
gained power its members talked of putting
the debtor and creditor law on a par with
that of the rest of the civilised world. But
the achievement of office made a lot of dif-
ference. It mostly does somehow.
The General Workers’ Union, which L
profoundly interested in the Kalgoorlie strike,
had a social evening in Perth, last week,
and the president took the opportunity to
remark that “the men were going to win if
they had to trample on Joe Cook before
they finished.” It was a mildly splendid re-
mark, and, no doubt, it aroused great enthusi-
asm. Rut what does it signify? Cook is
merely a bald and transitory spectre fleeing
through a fog of unreality, and if nine Labor
elephants stamped him flat something
exactly like him would rise in his place and
resume the flight with the Liberal tombstone
under its arm. If Cook were a large man,
there might be some excitement and glory in
coming all the way from Westralia to
trample on him. But he isn’t. How about
getting someone to throw a hat at him?
“D.”: Westralia’s Scaddan Ministry has
weird notions of economy. Recently Works
Minister Bill Johnson visited Kalgoorlie to
open a new reservoir, and spent over £7OO
on an electioneering feed. Honest William
had hardly wiped the food-stains from his
countenance when a deputation arrived in
search of funds for the installation of a
children’s ward in the local hospital. The
reveller explained regretfully that there was
no money left. Still he would see what
could be done in “the near future.” The
near future means when the Scaddan crowd
shall have succeeded in borrowing a bit
more from Cohen. And even then there is
the chance that the money may go imme-
diately in further electioneering feeds or
what not.
THE ANTS ARE AFTER THE SUGAR.
The N. S. Wales Government lias agreed
to let Victoria join Wentworth to its rail-
way system, and the Victorian Government
has agreed to do it; and the other day
Willie Watt crossed the Murray and crowed
about it on his neighbor’s dunghill. “All
these barriers,” said Willie, “were but the
rude thoughts of men of GO or 70 years ago,
and they should not influence development.”
Yet if you mentioned unification, State
Premier Willie Watt would sharpen his
tongue and fight to the bitter end of it for
State Rights, though State Rights simply
turn the “rude thoughts of men of 60 or 70
years ago” into a fetich and worship them.
If the rude thoughts shouldn’t influence
development, why should they influence
politics, which are the art or science or
game of securing development?
State Minister Trefle, of N.S.W., broke
out on a recent day at Coonamble, re the
advisability of borrowing “£20,000,000 or
£30,000,000” for the purpose of building
railways—all presumably pointing towards
Sydney. It is this kind of stuff which
makes The Bulletin believe more and
more that it is the one Labor paper in the
State—-also that it is the last remnant of
the- N.S.W. Labor party. Being a Laborite
doesn’t consist in following a gang of politi-
cal renegades like Holman and Trefle, any
more than being an Early Christian con-
sisted in following J. Iscariot. The Labor
policy includes financial honesty, reduction
of borrowing, the expenditure of new loan
funds only on works which will pay full
interest and something towards sinking fund,
sinking fund on all public debts, arbitration
in place of strikes, decentralisation, aboli-
tion of the State Upper House and of the
useless and superfluous State Governor. All
these things The Bulletin supports, and
of every one of them the present alleged
Labor Ministry seems to know less than a
hog does of Sunday.
“The Missus” said to “Silas Snell” :
I notice yon are a great barracker for the working
man. I keep a boarding-house for working men, and
I do not discover, from Sunday to Saturday, any par-
ticular reason why I should love my boarder as
myself, nor am I greatly distressed in mind when I
read that the loathly employer has been somewhat
aggressive in oppression. I am a working woman (a
working widow). I have 12 employers ; they are all
working men, and no employer of men can be meaner,
more domineering, more grasping and greedy, and
more contemptuous of the rights of his .employees
than my 12 employers are. Each of my employers
pays me 18s. fid. per week to provide him with bed
and board, and to do his washing, and each exacts
the last stroke of work that’s in me, the last mouth-
ful of meat he can cram into him. All have been
favored with rises of wages within the last six months,
brought about by Wages Boards and the plea of the
increased price of living, while leaving me battling
15 hours a day, seven days a week, to keep my nose
above water, and not always succeeding. The" other
day I told my 12 employers that the increase of
prices resulting from increase of wages and the re-
turn of winter appetites forced me to demand a rise.
I wanted a pound a week from each. What hap-
pened? My employers had a lock-out. They said
they would see me damned first. They would rather
pack up and leave than submit to such extortion. In
lact, they talked to me just as their fat employers
used to talk to them, and they go on chattering at
my table over the iniquity of the capitalists who
grind the faces of the poor, while I feel their teeth
at my very bones. I don’t stand alone. Every board-
inghouse-keeper working for working men has the
same contempt for the employing class.
The N.S.W. railways and tramways,
which paid well for a time, were at last not
earning their own keep, so the Government
put up the fares; whereupon the Canter-
bury Labor League “protests and condemns’’
and “considers this action by the Labor
Government is a direct betrayal of working-
class interests.” Of course working-class in-
terests have been betrayed ; but the Canter-
bury Labor League doesn’t look back far
enough to see where it happened. Working-
class interests were betrayed when the
Government lashed out into the wildest bor-
rowing N.S.W. ever knew, and created a
boom, which means a period of fictitious
prices, and thus gave political and other
land speculators the chance to make for-
tunes without working for them (which, of
course, means that somebody else has to
work for them). Thus the wages of rail-
way and tram men had to be humped up
without much or any benefit accruing to the
men themselves, and now somebody has to
pay for those rises. And if it isn’t the
people who use the railways and the trams,
whom should it be? If it costs 6d. to give a
working-man passenger a ride, does the
Canterbury Labor League reckon the work-
ing-man should pay sd. and sponge on some-
body for the other Id.? Does it think the
working-man is a mendicant and a cadger?
SET UP FOR THE WINTER.
“PILLOWS IN PARLIAMENT.”—“WRESTLING
FOR BLANKETS.”—“ROW IN FEDERAL HOUSE.”
—Newspaper headings.
"Wot a boshta blanket! Where did ger get it?"
“Its Joe Cook’s. Cut up to Parli’ ment ’Ouse.
Hi dessay you’ll be in time for some of
the remnants.”
OUT OF THE DEPTHS.
“N.M.8.” (from Fiji) :
Bruce Smith’s Brown Brother (the one he anil
other Colored Australians yearn to introduce to the
Commonwealth) is indeed a national and social
asset. If you doubt me, consider these items from
the last Criminal Sessions list in Suva, Fiji. Rex
proceeds against Brown Brothers Bachu (murder) ;
l’aucham and Nasibau (jnurder) ; Tara, Jalim and
Arjun (murder) ; Gajadhar (murder) ; Makhau (mur-
der) ; Chimathambi (manslaughter) ; Pani Gounden
(manslaughter) ; Kassim Sail) (indecent offence) ;
Mangal (unnatural offence). And most of the rest
of the paper in which the above appears is filled
with an account of the capture, trial and conviction
of a half-caste (suffering from a loathsome con-
tagious disease), who was found by a Suva citizen
in the bedroom of his little daughter!
Robert McNab, scholar, historian and ex-
Minister for Lands in Maoriland, has just
been handed the degree of Doctor of Litera-
ture by M.L. University. He earned this by
his thesis on early Maoriland history, which
he submitted for the degree, together with
his book “Mur-ihiku,” which deals chiefly in
the rum and whaling period. (Strange
how rum and whales run together—especially
whales.) Professor Egerton, of Oxford,
acted as referee. There are only two other
Doctors of Literature in M.L., and they are
both professors at Canterbury College.
“Jeames”: I see by a Sydney Sun cable-
gram from England that: —
Two well-known sportsmen, Lord Lonsdale and Sir
Claude de Crespigny, will shortly participate in a
six rounds fight at the National Sporting Club.
I have waited on them both. Sir Claude,
according to the Sun, is 67, while Lord
Lonsdale is ten years younger. All the same
I would gladly put several weeks’ wages on
the baronet at any reasonable price—and
this despite the fact that he is a lightweight,
whereas his opponent will have difficulty in
getting within the welter limit. Lord Lons-
dale’s festive habits of life—he is an enthu-
siastic champagne-fancier and a chain
smoker of cigars—-are bound to And him out
after the first round or so. Sir Claude is
famed for his abstemiousness. Incidentally,
he is commonly reputed to be slightly dippy.
London Society knows him as “The Hang-
man.” Years ago, when he was sheriff of
his county (Essex), he discovered that one
of his duties was to hang condemned mur-
derers in his part of the world. An assassin
presently transpired in Chelmsford Gaol,
and Sir Claude hanged him, and very effici-
ently too. The murderer, with that perver-
sity which one finds all too often in the crim-
inal classes, failed utterly to appreciate the
honor that was being done him—a fact which
was responsible for a good deal of scandal-
ised comment in the servants’ halls of the
period. My colleague Heep, I remember,
wrote some very stinging verses on the sub-
ject under his nom de plume, “Martin
Luther,” in a birthday book belonging to one
of the housemaids. Sir Claude is the only
man who ever fell 400 feet out of a balloon
and emerged alive and well. The contrap-
tion burst, he landed in a tree, with the cage
still under him, and was humped from there
into a river. Up to seven or eight years ago
he rode regularly in three- and four-mile
steeplechases, against the best of the profes-
sionals, over courses such as Gatwick and
Hawthorn Hill. And he is still a regular
performer in point-to-point events. Alto-
gether a strenuous little old man. Lord
Lonsdale is a carefully dressed, ginger-haired
nobleman, with side-whiskers and the general
appearance of a high-class groom. He is
probably as game as his prospective oppo-
nent, and possibly as scientific, but as I have
already mentioned, he is bound to lack con-
dition. The German Emperor is reputed to
like him better than any other man in Eng-
land —still, I don’t suppose that will affect
the betting much.
SHIPS AND BOODLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The three directors of the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha,
agents for the English armament firm, Vickers Ltd ,
received a commission of £115,000 respecting the
battle-cruiser Kongo, of which they gave Admiral
Matsumoto, ex-director of the Fleet Administration,
£40,000. — Cable.
So another cherished superstition goes the way of all;
The noble .lap who lusted to obey his country’s call,
Whose only wish was that Japan should flourish
without end.
Alas! the call the sea-lord heard was of a dividend.
And another superstition old of Britain’s honesty,
Which made it Lord of All the Lands and Mistress
of the Sea,
Is blown to naught, because the British shipyard gave
a bribe,
And they told us that corruption solely marks the
Yankee tribe.
And the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha tears our dearest
hope to rags—
The beliefs in all the Jingoes who are best at flap-
ping flags,
The patriots of ten per cent., the heroes of “com-
mish,”
And the gentlemen whose lordly hands take scraps
from every dish.
And when we read that Germany has another navy
scheme,
And that England must build better or become a
vanished dream,
We know the probabilities to be —all scares aside—
That a loyal firm of boodlers is shipbuilding on the
Clyde.
VICTORIA.
MARTIN LUTHER.
A FELL DESIGN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. David Fell, ex-M.L.A., who is on his way to
England, has been granted the Governor's Commis-
sion to inquire in Great Britain into the prospects
of continued loan operations by the State of New
South Wales upon the London money market to the
extent necessary to aid continuance of the present
developmental policy of the Government, and to
recommend such measures as he may consider ought
to be adopted in this connection. — S. M. Herald.
David Fell,
The papers tell,
Is bound for Loandon Town;
David Fell
The “Liber-el!”
Shall our efforts crown.
We don’t know quite how to borrow
All the loans we'll need to-morrow,
So—
David Fell,
Who knows full well,
Will take Bull-Cohen down!
David Fell
Deserves a spell
Up in Loandon Town.
Let ’em yell!
We still can sell
Good name and renown.
Our sole craving for more loans is:
Labor’s full of Smiths and Joneses,
But—
David Fell
Can raise the £
Where WE can’t raise a brown!
David knows
When to close—-
When to open, too.
lie will say
“Not to-day !”
When the outlook’s blue.
He will fix the time for goin’
Cap in hand to UNCLE COHEN
For David Fell,
The Liber-el!
Backs Labor’s lOU.
N.S.W.
MONTY PEET.


To Own This
\
is to Own
the Best.
If you wish to own a small Grand Piano of Exclusive
and Exquisite Design, this magnificent-toned Boudoir
Grand cannot fail to appeal to your artistic taste.
.
MS
iillllilii
!•/?*■ • 1
Real Music-lovers should not miss our display of these small Grands.
Imported specially from the world-famous RONTSCH Factories,
they are without a rival in their fitness for adorning any lefined
home where High-grade Quality Counts the Most. 1 o see one of
these brilliant instruments is to long to have one. Designed after
the “Sheraton” style with a handsome mahogany case, the veneer of
which possesses remarkable beauty, the grain being an exceptional 1}
rare and artistic creation, you have in the
Ronisch Boudoir Grand
“A Perfect Specimen of the Piano-maker’s Art.”
Another feature of this distinctive instrument is the consolidated
iron frame. Superbly decorated in gold bronze, and cast into one
piece, with 6 cross iron bracings. This ensures strength, and adds
long life to the piano. The system of stringing is worth noting,
being on the “agraffe” principle, thereby making sure of a Pure,
Full, Resonant Tone. It also enables the instrument to stand in
tune for long periods in any change of climate. As we only have a
limited supply of these exclusive Grands, early application is
recommended.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List,
post free. We sell on
Easy Terms, if desired.
PALING’S,
338 George Street
SYDNEY
Newcastle,
Lismore, Brisbane,
Toowoomba.
and at
The Best that Three Guineas Can Bring.
The Leviathan Suit
to Order at
I
6<Wi
We Pay Freight.
‘ Guaranteed
to a Buttonhole.
63
A LEVIATHAN Price invariably repre-
sents a supreme value. It is part of our
policy always to give a Little More and a
Little Better for money spent with us.
This is splendidly true of the Suit we
tailor at 63/- Nowhere else will the same
amount bring you fabrics so fine and
tailoring so thorough.
Trimmings, linings, everything is of the
very best, and the result is a Suit which we
can confidently recommend to the most
particular dresser.
Like all our made-to-measure clothes it
is guaranteed and must please in every
respect, or we alone are the losers and you
pay not one penny.
Leviathan Suits to Measure also at
52/6 ("iSiaan TO/-, 84/-, 90]-, 105/-
Send this
Coupon for
Patterns.
Ask, too, for
a Copy of
our New
Catalogue.
THE LEVIATHAN, cr. Swanston and
Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
Please send me patterns of your
Winter Suitings at 63/-. This request
incurs no obligation.
Name
Address
B’t’n 21/5/’l4.
mm
Corner Swanston & Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
ĝf
PRISM
BINOCULARS.
REMAIN UNRIVALLED for
Mechanical and Optical Perfection.
FOR THE
Races —Theatre —
Holiday Trips, etc.,
You Will Need a Good Glass,
Before deciding on a purchase be sure and see the New
Zeiss Models with Centre Focussing Screw.
MAXIHUM LIGHT.
PERFECT DEFINITION.
Write to your Optician for Illustrated Descriptive Booklet.
Reputable Opticians will not try to substi=
tute another Glass when asked for ZEISS.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LiniTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Missing: Friends.
A Federal Detective Agency.
J. CANTLON
(late Victorian Detective Police) under-
takes Commercial, Confidential, Next of Kin,
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enquiries,
Searches. Surveillance.
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
C'iOOPER. —The Address is sought of Rel\-
J fives of DAVID COOPER, of Kai Iwi,
Wanganui, N.Z.
TWO SISTERS used to reside at Lilydale,
near Melbourne.
BROTHERS were in Ballarat.
WILL THESE—or anyone knowing them
—please communicate with
The CHARLES HAINES Advt. Agency,
Wellington, New Zealand.
J. N. KENNEDY. —Write to his Sisters.
Important.
ACLAND STREET.
ST. KILDA.
DE SAUTY—JOSS JOSS, FRANK.
Write to Mother, she is old now,
longs to hear. Post Office, Worthing,
Sussex. A.M.K.J. all want news of you.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
On Adelaide Cup day the Tote gave pun-
ters another taste of its quality. There were It
starters for the Accession Handicap (6 furlongs).
The winner pajd a div. of £47 11s. for £l. and the
runner-up paid £4. Leaving the odds of 3 to 1
against the “pne two” chance out of consideration,
the Tote’s divvy meant that for every £ invested
on the winner £5O or so was invested on the rest
of the field, for the Tote’s percentage was deducted
from the div. With bookmakers betting instead of
the Tote, the proportion of investments would have
been the same, but the bookies’ price would have
been, say, 10 or 12 to 1. “Ten to one outsiders!’’
you can hear them bawling it. More than three-
fourths of all the money invested would have re-
mained with the books. Every dividend of 15 to 1
and upwards means a saving of hundreds or thousands
of quids to the collective public on whom the books
prey in N.S.W. and Vic., where the Tote is not
established. All the while the Tote is talcing its
percentage. Yet the books have the gall to say
they do not average 10 per cent, profit on their
takings. Why, their profits when baejeers are said
to have had" “a bad day” amount to fully 60 per
cent, of their gross receipts, as a rule. On most
other days they average not less than 15 per cent,
profits. When “honors are easy” they get, perhaps,
10 per cent, of the public’s outlay. And when they
positively lose they have taken—.care not to lose
much. And who wins? Not the punters who gee
the worst of the “market” and would save much
money if they betted with the Tote on the one-pound-
one-price principle ; but the professional backers, who
get the best of the market, and who never throw
away their money on non-triers, and are not anxious
for the abolition of the man Who lays against the
doubles.
Adelaide Cup Day beat nearly all local
records, even in the matter of totalisator investments,
which have lately shown a small but steady decline
from last year’s big figures. Scobie’s Eltham was
backed down to the rather absurd price of a shade of
odds on, in a field of 13. But, in considering that
price, it must be remembered that the “machine”
gives a useful consolation dividend if your horse
finishes second. This is what Eltham did, and backers
got 12s. of their pound back. Robertson’s five-year-
old American mare, Hamburg Belle, won, with 7st. ;
but Eltham carried Bst. lib , and Mountain Princess
(third) 9st. 21b. There was a £47 11s. dividend
on a small race on Cup day, and £4 consolation for
backers of the second. The Goodwood Handicap sprint
had a tremendous finish between A. D. McDonald’s
Kosai, Hawker’s Tadanga, Bob Soult, and Third
Best. The judge placed them in that order, but
there was any amount of discussion. Dividends,
£3 18s. and £1 17s. The weight-for-age Elder
Stakes, same day, was won “anyhow” by Mountain
Princess, the local St. Leger by Devron (McDonald’s
again), and the S.A. Stakes (2-year-old) by E. E. D.
Clarke’s Procyon.
* * * *
Onetime Australian cyclist Don Kirkham
kicked up some dust in Paris recently, by riding, un-
paced, over .25 j miles in one hour. The effort was the
outcome of a bet; but it demonstrates that Don
has struck form, and that Europe is likely to hear
more of him very shortly.
* * * *
The attempt on the Adelaide to Port Dar-
win record commenced on May 14, at noon, when
Reichenbach and Fahey left Adelaide in the midst
of a very gorgeous send-off. Among the well-wishers
was Arthur MacDonald, the man who established the
record now being assaulted. Mac put up his stunt
away back in 1898. They will follow almost the
same track, except for one short cut, which will
reduce the distance from the 2066 miles ridden by
MacDonald to 2040. When they left each machine
weighed, loaded up, 651 b., but when they reach the
marches of civilisation that will be increased by the
addition of a gun and ammunition, to provide fresh
meat along the line of travel. To lower the record
the two bikists will have to arrive at Port Darwin
before 3.30 a.m. on Saturday, June 13. ' The schedule
they have arranged will land them there on June 8
—but there is sometimes a terrible gap between
•schedule and record. Just as this went to press a
telegram announced that they had arrived safely at
Hergott Springs, 441 miles from Adelaide, at 11.30
a.m. on Monday, May 18, after encountering stiff
head winds and roads that were not roads, nor yet
tracks, but Sheol.
When Captain Kelsey, who was trying to
motor from Cape to Cairo, announced he was
stranded near Tanganyika for lack of funds, help was
quickly forthcoming, and the gallant captain went
bravely on. But again disaster hit him, and at time
of writing word is received that he is now in
hospital at an awful hole called Seranje, on the
Cape to Cairo surveyed line, as the result of being
mauled by a leopard. Kelsey’s luck is out.
* * * *
Messrs. Clarkson and Williams have
established a wonderful record in riding from Syd-
ney to Adelaide in the little seven horse-power cycle
car. This baby contraption left Sydney one after-
noon at 2.30 p.m. and arrived that night at Goul-
burn, 129 miles away. The second day saw it cover
the miles between Goulburn and Tarcutta very
comfortably. The third day it ran to Benalla, 151
miles further on, over a horrible track. It was out-
side Benalla that the capsize occurred through run-
ning over the edge of a culvert, slightly damaging
the front axle and radiator. Repairs were effected
next morning, and the journey to Melbourne resumed,
and the southern capital was reached on the afternoon
of the fourth day out from Sydney. Many a bigger
and stronger car has taken longer time over the jour-
ney. Only 13 gallons of petrol were used on the
556 miles, which works out at 43i miles per gallon.
Lubrication cost two pints of oil, and the experience
with the tyres was very pleasing, as they seemed to
be hardly soiled. The actual driving time was 24
hours 40min., an average of 33 miles per hour. At
4.30 p.m. May 9 (a Saturday) the car resumed the
run to Adelaide, and ran through Ballarat on to
Skipton, where, at 9.37 p.m., a halt was
made for the night. The second day was a long
one, from 6.15 a.m. till 10.45 p.m., when the car
snorted into Robe. On the Monday morning it left
Kobe at 6.55 a m., and ran 27 miles in 55min. over
a beautiful road to Kingston, where a halt was made
for a well-earned breakfast. At 11 a.m. it left King-
ston, and plunged into the Coorong Desert, where
everybody had declared it would get hopelessly stuck.
But Meningie was reached at 6.35 p.m., and after
tea and changing a leaky tube the little vehicle
bobbed along to Wellington, 28 miles away, in 90min.
After that, the roads got better, and the car
descended the ranges into Adelaide, which was reached
at 1.40 a.m. on Tuesday morning—a distance of 575
miles in 25 hours 30min. of actual running time, an
average of 23 miles per hour, including the long
struggle through the Coorong Desert. This Adelaide
run ate up 15 gallons of petrol, equal to 40 miles
to the gallon. Lubrication 21 pints oil, and the Dun-
lop tyres were inflated only once, and g'ot through
with only one small puncture. And it has to be
remembered that this cycle-ear is a toy-likt
affair, weighing between seven and eight hundred-
weight. A wonderful performance which makes a
man wonder why he wastes money on high-powered,
heavy motor-cars.
* * * (' *
“John P.” : On March 5 last at Masterton
(M.L.) J. A. Power, the Yankee miler, left a mile
behind in 4min. IS 2-ssec., but no one seems to
have as much as blinked an eyelash. The time was
recently passed by the M.L. and Australasian Asso-
ciations, and goes on to the books as a M.L. and
Australasian record. Seems probable that the fleet-
footed Yankee boy’s time will still be there when
the athletes of this generation are old.
* * * *
The two Lindrums are finishing their 12
matinGes and nights of billiards at Aleock’s (Melb.)
on Saturday. Up to half-time champion Fred, play-
ing all he knows except the red hazard stroke, seemed
not too good for boy Walter on the handicap terms.
The youngster, in receipt of 4000 in 18,000, made a
three-figure break almost every time he got fairly
going, and he kept his brother hard at work. Next
week Walter Lindrum is to play Ruby Roberts once
again, giving that plump and pleasing young lady
points enough to make an interesting match of it.
As an exhibition, the meeting of boy Walter and
bonnie Ruby is always interesting. Miss Roberts is
only just back from a Maoriland tour, in the course
of which she made a break of 108 against the ama-
teur champion of the Dominion.
* * * *
In the Soccer division (Sydney) Gran-
ville got its spanner well home on the cranium of
Northern Suburbs by four goals to one—a severe
defeat under Soccer rules. Sydney fell on Balmain
and outed it by two to nil. Canterbury smashed
Glebe by one to none, and Annandale downed New-
town by five goals to two. The result was that
Granville and Sydney are together in the first rank
of the competition with six points each. Balmain
and Canterbury have four each. Annandale and
Glebe are two each, and Newtown and Northern Sub-
urbs sit together on the doorstep of the slough of
despond with nary a point between them.
* * * *
The Australian Rulers of Sydney faced
the watery conditions in excellent fettle, and in
spite of the climatic effects did some good scoring.
South Sydney, the giants of the previous Saturday
rested on a bye, and Sydney, which was South’s foot-
ball the previous week, avenged itself by inflicting a
severe castigation on Newtown (78 to 19). But the
surprise of the day, the affair that nearly drove the
SPELL-HO!
Shugrue lakes a rest while McCoy sorts
himself out.
whole code to drink, was the upheaval of Central
Western, a new club playing in the senior grade for
the first time. It lucked 99 to North Sydney’s 47.
Paddington bumped Eastern Suburbs into the slush
and trod on it, the figures being 81 to 33. Eastern
Suburbs were far from being near form.
* * * *
Rain and general unpleasantness were the
features of Saturday afternoon in Sydney, but the
fact did not prevent the city emptying itself into
the various enclosures to watch the footballers. No
less than 15,000 were stalled in the Sydney Cricket
Ground alone, and the umbrellas of the crowd on
the hill looked like a Roman tortoise painted in
Indian ink. The chief League fixture was the battle
between Newtown and Eastern Suburbs at the afore-
mentioned Cricket Ground, and a great and strenuous
scrap it was. Splendid charges were let loose on
both sides, only to be brought to naught by the
carelessness or incompetence of individual players,
some of whom seemed to have forgotten how to
recognise the psychological moment to pass, and
were pulled down or else passed so late that the
leather went astray. Free kicks were the order of
the afternoon, but kickers failed to do anything
with them again and again. In the end Newtown
ran out a winner by two points to nil, a perform-
ance for which both sides should have been soundly
fined. South Sydney fell on Western Suburbs at
Ashfield, and, getting it down, dealt out boot vici-
ously till the score stood at to nine, and then the
whistle ended the slaughter. Annandale and Bal-
main had a scramble at Birchgrove Oval, which
ended in seven all; and Glebe downed North Sydney
by 13 points to six.
* * * *
A curious feature of the play put up by
the Union division was the superiority of the backs
to the forwards under conditions that make for-
ward games. Greasy leather, a wet, slippery field,
and intermittent rain do not make opportunities for
the back division. That is the sort of field where a
good pack shines. But on Saturday in no case did
the packs shine, and what brilliancy there was dis-
played came from the backs. Glebe blew out the
lamp of North Sydney by 12 to six; University
overthrew Balmain by 11 to three; Eastern Suburbs
raged over Western ditto by 14 to three. Randwick
came to smash at the boots of South Sydney by 16
to three—which was a bad performance; and New-
town climbed out of the scuffle against St. George
with eight to three. Manly had the bye. This was
the third round, and only Newtown and South Syd-
ney remain unbeaten. Eastern Suburbs, premier
team last year, has been obliterated twice, and
Saturday’s victory was its first this season. Western
Suburbs has, so far, not won a game.
Glorious weather and gorgeous crotvds
favored Melbourne’s hoofball struggles last Saturday,
the chief episodes being adorned by strenuous and
exciting finishes. Carlton visited South, and the two
ancient opponents added another to their long list
of choice exhibitions. The Reds-and-Whites had the
better system, and were faster, but Carlton’s marking
was superior. Had they made the most of their
chances the Old Blues had won, but against that
South had the bad luck to lose one of its best men,
who was in hospital. He had. been proceeding to the
fray on a tramcar which disputed the right-of-way
with a wild, untamed motor-’bus, and after he was
rescued from that argument he wasn’t fit for any
hoofball. South filled his place at the last moment
with an earnest and honorable has-been. His fighting
capacity was good, but he was out of training. Never-
theless, after a fierce finishing scuffle, South managed
to make a draw of the game, with eight goals four
behinds to Carlton’s seven goals 10 behinds. At
Fitzroy, the locals and the neighboring Magpies
battled out a hard struggle from start to finish, first
one side then the other getting a few points’ lead.
In the last term ’Roy squeezed nine points ahead, but
’Wood set to with a memorable howl, and had re-
duced this to two points when the bell- rang—'Roy
54 points, ’Wood 52. This writer regrets to notice
that ’Roy’s committee has failed td learn the lesson
taught at Carlton a few weeks back and foolishly
expects three John Hops to keep a 25,000 crowd from
rushing the ground. Also, he would suggest that the
habit of throwing lemonade bottles at players should
be discouraged. The ruffian who thus indulges his
passions takes the game too seriously, and should be
put to a course of hard labor or hard bread and
water. Essendon largely discounted its defeat of St.
Ivilda by beating Richmond with' difficulty and four
points—s 3 to Richmond’s 49 ; St. Kilda polished off
Melbourne by 115 to 55, and Geelong trounced the
lackadaisical Students by 87 to 71. These Students,
by the way, are understood to contemplate retiring
from the League, which, from some aspects, would be
a pity. They are amateurs, though that is nothing
against them, but they have so poor a following that
their “gates” don’t pay their opponents’ tram-fares.
Even that wouldn’t matter if thev were a strong and
successful combination, alluring to that gate-provid-
lng public which belongs to no club, but wants only
to see a good match ; but the trouble is they aren’t
a combination at all, only an agglomeration of in-
dividual excellencies. In a word, they won’t train
together—and they haven’t won two games in two
years.
* « * #
Only one Melbourne Ass. game was of
moment—between neighbors Eootscray and Williams-
town—and that collision might have been really ex-
citing had not 'Town got its captain and three other
good men damaged in its strenuous encounter with
Brunswick the week before. As it was, it kept its
end up against the Premiers so well that at lemon
time it was four points to the good, but ’Scray went
away in the last quarter and won by 66 points to 53.
Ihe aforesaid Brunswick stamped on Port with 102
points to 74. North demolished Hawthorn by 133
points to 58. Essendon passed Northcote its cus-
tomary meat-slaughter (97 to 51). Also, Brighton
indulged m one of its casual uprisings and pounded
P ran with 60 points to 49, which so flabbergasted
the shopkeeping suburb that it will probably mark
down the goods by 50 per cent.
* * * ■*
The Soccer brand of toeball is getting
such a grip m M.L. (which really means Mostly Loans)
that some people are beginning to fear it will uitimately
oust the Rugby code in public favor. In Wellington
this season no less than 68 teams have entered for
the various Soccer competitions, which with substi-
tutes and school teams brings the total exponents of
the Association code in the windy city up to 1000.
Jhe same tiling is happening in Christchurch and
Uunedin, and as the energetic Association in the
Scawtch centre snapped up the best toe-ball ground
this season, Rugby is beginning to feel a trifle un-
easy on its resplendent throne.
* * * *
Hugh D. Mclntosh, evidently determined
to become a patron of manly arts, has donated unto
the N.S.W. Rugby League a shield to be held by the
premier club of each season, and also a £5O belt, to
be awarded to the best individual player according to
public ballot. The Mclntosh is a well-meaning
wight, a man of most excellent intentions ; but this
belt of his ought to be refused and cast into outer
darkness, The shield is an excellent idea, but the
belt is a curse and a viper in disguise. It has taken
about 10 years of. hard work on the part of the pre-
sent writer and other pressmen to kill off the selfish,
flashy player who for years and years was the misery
of the game. The secret of successful football is
perfect co-operation ; the working of a machine the
component parts of which are human beings. And
that co-operation can be obtained only when every
player sinks his individuality in the cause of the
club. There comes a time when, in a passing charge,
intelligence demands that the ball should be passed.
In the perfect machine it is passed as quickly and
unobtrusively as possible. In the bad old days of
bright individualistic play it was not passed. The
man in possession held on to it, and tried to bullock
Ins way through on his own, or fail in the glare of
much sunlight in the form of press adulation. And
the Mclntosh belt will make for the revival of that
old individualistic, selfish and flash kind of play.
Catch Bill Smith passing to Tom Jones when by doing
so Jones will score a try and get ahead in the race
for the Mclntosh belt. Blow the Mclntosh belt-
take the thing away.
* * * #
In the . Sydney Baseball Competition
Petersham is still unbeaten, and the light of its
glory dazzles the metropolis. On Saturday last Mos-
man—North Sydney, the premier team," called on
the unbeaten one, and went down with a crash that
echoed from Parramatta to Parsley Bay. The
premier mob never had a chance. Its-name was
Mud from the beginning. It scored ope in the
opening session and then it froze till the last des-
perate round, when it lobbed four somehow —a total
of five to the 17 of the bounding Petersham-ites. It
was all rout and general ruin. Waverley ran over
Burwood by 13 to eight, and Leichhardt put Lane
Cove in the Insolvency Court by 12 to four. In a
scratch game University jumped on Paddington by
10 to three.
* * .* *
The slippery conditions on Saturday gave
the Sydney Lacrosse enthusiasts a chance to show
their quality. It is a game that was hatched in a
land where the winter is cold and dry and hard—-
and nothing tests the lacrosser like a wet Sydney
afternoon. Result was some wildly spectacular play,
but the quality of the work deserved no adjectives
except bad ones or mixed ones or indifferent ones.
The competition degenerated into a wild scramble,
a veritable mudlark, in which brute force and
crass bulldogism scored better than finesse. Svdney
walloped St. George by 14 to three. Mosnian had a
tough scramble with University and crawled through
by five to four. Petersham easily defeated Balmain,
the figures being seven to three, Eastern Suburbs
made a holy show of Manly, with 15 to one. Holy
shows are not very interesting to witness. They
may be shows, and they may be holy, but what is
there in them?
It was Speed, More-Speed and Still-More-
Spced which smashed Herbert McCoy, the Australian
boxer, on Saturday night, when he met Joe Shugrue,
of New York, at Sydney Stadium. Shugrue was faster
on his feet and he hit twice as fast as McCoy; and,
most important of all, he hit three times as often.
There was more demoralisation in one blow of
McCoy’s than in six ordinary wallops handed out by
the New Yorker, but the latter placed them where
they were effective. They fell on the nose and mouth
of McCoy and sent his blows wild. They demoralised
him, so that after a while he lost the instinct to time
his blows properly, and he hit any old how or any
ancient why. He mislaid his wherefore and his where-
as and his hereinbefore and his logic. Shugrue is a
two-handed fighter, who wallops with both fists im-
partially. His punches are clean and quick, and,
though often very light, are distributed with judg-
ment. All the same, he has his heavy battery, as
McCoy discovered to his cost when Shugrue swung
some terrific right counters. Three times McCov was
sent to the boards with dean punches to the jaw, and
when he went down the last time the blue-ciad form
of Inspector Mathews waved the hunting-crop of
authority, and peace was proclaimed in favor of Shu-
grue. Shugrue’s style of boxing is very similar to
that of McCoy, but it is more sustained, and the
velocity is the decisive factor. Ho is apparentlv,
like Stone, the product of the short, quick, 10-round
scrap so favored on the Atlantic sea-board of the
U.S.A., and it is a fine training-school. It inculcates
rapidity—and rapidity seems to win nine out of 10
modern boxing matches. • Presumably Shugrue will
meet Saylor, and that disturbance should be worth
going; a long way to see.
*'■»**
Great excitement in Melbourne last
Saturday night when 11,000 men watched Fred
hay, of Australia, outpoint the doughty Milburn Say-
lor, of the U.S.A. Kay is tall, wiry, lithe and has
an advantage of 2in. longer reach than Saylor. It
was the Australian’s first big fight, and he suffered
from nervousness. His curious style puzzled Saylor
somewhat, for he advanced towards that Yankee youth
with his right extended, and looking as though he
would cross with the left. Instead of which he
poked the right out a bit further, kept on pushing
it forward till it collided with Saylor’s chin, and
roused that young man to great energy. In spite of
a few bashes from Saylor's mighty fists Kay scored
the majority of the points in the first round, and
went to his corner to an accompaniment of cheers
that blew most of the nervousness out of him. After
that Saylor found himself up against a serious pro-
blem. That he could knock out Kay if he could
catch him was a certainty, but Kay semed to have
hostile and fleeing opinions about being caught, llis
tactics were those of the Mahratta cavalry. He
danced round like a will-o’-the-wisp, or a Pindaree, or
one of those Parthians who scattered on horseback
shooting arrows backwards; and in between
dances he smote. Like Saylor, he smote from all
angles. Fists fell from Heaven on the Yankee, wal-
lops flew up from the floor and caught him, and
bangs came from the horizon or the deep sea. More-
over, as the Australian fought right foot foremost,
Saylor had to change his front, and did but little
good when he did change it. Yet, in the second
round, Saylor thought bis luck had stuck to him.
Kay came in like a balloon or a ball of thistle-
down, and was flying or blowing about, when he met
a right swing with the side of his head that sent
him down for three. Later on, lie vaulted in once
more and met a drive over the heart that put him
down for eight in a desert of silence. But he got
up and went on fighting. Saylor tried to use the
occipital blow; but Kay was too tall, and Saylor
wisely abandoned that dangerous wallop. When the
10th started Saylor bounded across the ring and
heaped the bang of derision on his enemy. The Aus-
tralian literally pitched himself into the air, fell and
rolled over limp as a rag and apparently dead to
the world. Again there was a vast and tremendous
silence as Marre counted. Saylor and everyone in
that huge crowd believed Kay was out. But at eight
he sprang up and walking over to the astounded
Saylor gave him left and right on the jaw. Neither
blow sent Saylor down nor out, but they broke his
confidence. He suddenly felt like a man whose cheque
was no good. He seemed to be posted as Missing at
Lloyd’s. The dogs barked at him and his clothes
became a misfit. He felt that his best girl had
gone and married somebody else. Backing away,
Saylor looked at Kay with mingled admiration and
disgust. Kay began to use his left effectively, and
gave Saylor a hurried time til] in the 13th he once
more landed a lucky one, and Kay went down again
—for eight. Uprising once more, he went in and
mixed things so vimfullv that the mighty Yankee
backed off. In the 16th Kay got all over the Ameri-
can, who spent the round in rapid retreat. In the
17th the retreat became a rout, and Kay, following
fast and faster, knocked Saylor off his feet. The
American looked very done. His chest heaved, and
he had a wandering expression about the back, and
he apparently realised that his only hope was a
knock-out. But the dancing Dervish in front of him
was fighting more strongly every minute, and growing
more and more aggressive. When the last round
came an agonised crowd begged Kay to stand off as
he was so far ahead on points. He disregarded the
advice, and went in to mix it. Saylor had lost his
hitting power, but he was still the veteran, full of
ring-craft and guile, and he strove desperately to
work Kay on to the ropes to finish him. But when he
got Kay there he could do nothing with him. The
elusive Australian dodged most of the punishment,
and sent it back with unerring aim, and when the
gong Referee Marre gave the only possible
verdict—for Kay on points. And then the welkin
split, and the floor of high Heaven was fractured.
Kay had learned a lot in that scrap, and when next
they meet, as meet they must, in Sydney, where
General Desire has already intimated that he MUST
see that match, the chances are that Kay will figiht a
more brilliant and aggressive campaign right from
the jump. Saylor is no exception to the majority of
mankind much less terrible on the defensive than
when he is the aggressor. Kay is the first man
Saylor has met here with a longer reach than him-
self, and Saylor can no more hit him on the top of
the head than he can hit the roof of the Post Office.
* * * *
One good thing the motor has done —it has
caused road makers to wake up. Until about 10
years ago any kind of an apology for a road served
as a highway ; but the machine that longs to travel
at 60 miles an hour is demanding something better
than the disciples of Macadam have been in the
habit of producing. Edison has been giving his
attention to the matter, and he reckons that within
the next 10 years cement roads for motor traffic will
be quite common. Experts are agreed that no
macadam road, tar bound or otherwise, will ever
stand the strain of excessive motor traffic ; but there
is a big controversy in progress as to whether
cement or granit setts, laid scientifically on an un-
yielding foundation, are the best where a road is
subject to the action of ironshod wheels and horse-
shoes as well as motor traffic. Cement, of course,
will come into its own (if something better isn’t
discovered) when all vehicles are mechanically pro-
pelled and rubber-shod. Already, however, some fine
stretches of road (one nearly 300 miies long) have
been constructed in the United States, much to the
delight of the record-breaking motorist. By the
way, a private motor road is about to be built from
London to Brighton (about 50 miles) by a company
as a business venture. It will be almost straight,
dustless, and divided into three avenues. One will
be for commercial motors carrying goods, one for
pleasure cars travelling at not more than 25 miles
an hour, and the third for cars that desire to dash
along at an unlimited speed. Motorists will be
charged a certain fee for using the road, and it is
expected that life will be exciting at times on the
unlimited section.


Must You First Get a Beating
Before You Learn to Box?
**5S
Or are you going to do the sensible
thing? Be prepared to defend yourself in a
convincing way.
Few know how to make the most effective
and scientific use of their natural means of
attack and defence. That -is just one of the
many sound reasons why YOU should be a
Skilful Boxer, and possess the advantage
over your fellows. I " elm make you a
Scientific and' Effective Boxed'.
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST.
So you've no excuse for remaining crude
and inexperienced, a good target for the first
“bullv” who torments you.
bet me make you a cool, determined scien-
tific boxer, with a substantial punch and
effective guard—a manly man, well able to
look after himself, and win the respect of
others'.
And what a delightful pastime .you'll find
my tuition ! What a valuable exercise S'or
body and brain!
Full particulars and terms will be promptly sent you, along with my handsomely-illustrated
booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home.’’
• ' - i
Write to-day. It may be the means of saving you the ignominy and bitterness of defeat.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
314 Belmont Buildings,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Hygienic Cigarette
fĝ
and
Cigar Holders
The very latest in holders.
CHEAP,
ALWAYS CLEAN,
ALWAYS NEW.
They are of Solid Silver,
with Quill Mouthpieces that
can he changed as often as
desired. The silver can be
scalded—thus you have prac-
tically a new holder as often
as you please.
The illustration
shows their actual
size.
Cigarette, If-
QUILLS, Box of SO
for 1/-
Cigar, 1/6.
PILLS, 6d. per Doz.
Postage 2d. extra.
My illustrated Catalog, “A
Discriminating Smoker’s
Guide,” will interest every
smoker. Send to-day for a
free copy.
fg
A. M. SOLOMON,
“CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AVIATION
H. GUILLAUX,
like
H. Q. HAWKER,*
G. HAMEL,
and all famous Aviators,
pins his faith to
“SHELL”
BENZINE
Williams’ Holder Top
Shaving Stick.
For a practical proof of the
excellence of this new idea,
send 3d. in stamps to The J.
B. Williams Co.,
Box 98 G. P. 0.,
Sydney, and you
will receive by re-
turn mail a liberal
sample exactly
like illustration.
RATIONS
lULIAMS CL>
r.
All Wideawake
Chemists sell it.
WANTED to buy Choice MINERAL
SPECIMENS from any part of
Australia.
Address :—-
It. V.. 4894,
c/o Rudolf Mosse, Potsdamerstrasse 'B3,
Berlin W. 85, Germany.
A Satisfied User of
fg
ECKERSLEY’S
Aerated Water Machines
writes:
Mumbil, 18th August. I'JIA.
RAILWAY HOTEL.
J. Forrest,
Prop.
“I am more than satisfied with my Aerated II ater
Machine, purchased from yon some time ago, and the
Waters which it produces are excellent. The cost of
production is only a trifle.
“Yours faithfully.
“(Sgd.) JACK FORREST."
No Hotelkeeper or Vendor of Aerated Beverages can
afford to be without an Kckersley Aerated Water
Machine or Hoda Fountain. We are the only manu-
facturers of these superb Machines, and in purchas-
ing from us middlemen’s profits are eliminated.
ECKERSLEY’S,
25a George Street (Opp. Tooth’s Brewery), SYDNEY.
Clarendon Street, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
Wool
Hides
Tallow
Sheep Skins
Rabbit Skins
and Other
Produce. J
S ALES held at frequent
intervals by
limited
4 BLIGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Correspondence Invited.
EVERY STEP A PLEASURE.
ĝf
Every step you take in Rigney Shoes is a
pleasure. It is a pleasure because Rignejv
Shoes are so comfortable, and you are con-
scious of the fact that they are perfect fit-
ting, correct in style and faultless in finish.
The shoe illustrated is a Tan Willow Calf.
Derby Shoe ; Drown Cotli Insertion Tops,
“Non-Tread-Over” Brand.
Price - - 32/6.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for our Catalog.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
m
m
m
CD
I
-
Thicker Here
Means more Miles
than ever!
After a careful inspection of thousands
of Motor Covers of all makes that
have passed through our hands for
repair work, we are satisfied that
better results can be obtained on
our-rutted roads and tracks by
using a heavier rubber covering
on the walls of Tyres. We
have therefore decided that all
DUNLOP
TYRES
made by us from this out
will be protected by a thicker
rubber covering on the
sides of tyre. This means
better wear than ever to all
“.Dunlop” users, and is a
further inducement why
Motorists should select these
Durable Tyres. There will
be no increase in existing prices.
STOCKED AT ALU LEADING GARAGES
a * *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES AND N.Z.
From “J.P.” :
There is an idiotic law in Maoriland to the effect
that if anyone on any sort of boat, yacht or steamer
picks oysters out of season the Customs Department
can confiscate the vessel. In Auckland there is a
citizen named Gifford, who owns a yacht. It was
taken out by the skipper, without the owner, for
testing purposes. A member of the crew landed,
without authority from anyone, and picked some
oysters, also without authority. Now, Gifford has
been fined £5O, and has been informed that he must
either pay up or hand over his yacht. In the first
place, the penalty is ludicrously disproportionate to
the seriousness of the offence. It is like Infining
down a man's house because he has driven on the
wrong side of flic street. And, secondly, there is no
equity about the arrangement. One man may pick
a barrel of oysters and only lose an elderly skiff or
a dinghy, while another may seize one oyster and
be deprived of a - 10,000-ton steamer. Also, the
situation has another aspect. If a man owns t a fine
yacht, and ore of the crew wants to get even with
him over anything he (the disgruntled mariner) has
only to land on an island and take a few oysters
out of season. Incidentally, if an Australian cruiser
went into a M.L. port, and one of the crew took a
few oysters, the infuriated Customs could, presum-
ably, collar the cruiser and sell it for old iron. In
brief, the entire business is demented to the brink of
incredibility.


Tel.: WILLIAM STREET 74.
THE GARCIA
SCHOOL OF MUSIC
CHALLIS AVENUE.
POTTS POINT
For Resident and Non-Resident Students.
"THIS School, the only one Of its kind in the South-
* ern Hemisphere, occupies a most commanding- and
health-giving position, overlooking from its upper
storeys and garden roof Sydney's beautiful Harbor.
The object of the School is threefold: —
(1) For the training of young ladies desirous of
studying Art in one or other of its branches, with a
view to a professional career, or merely as an accom-
plishment in private life.
(2) For children possessed of exceptional talent,
whose temperament requires a quiet, refining and
fostering influence.
(3) For the completion of the studies of young
ladies whose education has been temporarily inter-
rupted.
The curriculum includes Singing, Music, English in
all its branches, Modern Languages, Physical Culture,
Dancing, etc. Lessons may be taken privately or in
class. Students taking Singing as a subject come
direct under the tuition of MADAM CHRISTIAN.
Business Hours: Wednesday, 2 to 4.30 p.m.
Saturday, 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.
You might as well expect
a troop of Boy Scouts to
capture Gibraltar as to
an ordinary dentiifice to
successfully combat the
ravages of “ Acid Mouth ”
upon the teeth.
There’s as much difference
between any ordinary den-
tnfice and Pcbeco Tooth
Paste as there is between
a flintlook musket of 1778
and a present-day machine-
gun.
taiii
i s
Ordinary Dentifrices clean,
whiten and polish teeth. Here
their work stops —for this is
all they were ever intended
to do. Pebeco Tooth Paste
was made to do what no other
known denlrifrice has ever
done overcome “ Acid
Mouth ’*■—that arch-enemy of
the teeth because it is the
direct cause of 95 per cent, of
all tooth decay.
Send 3d stamps for sample tube and
interesting test of “ Acid Mouth.”
Of all Chemists.
G. ARNOLD, 6 O’Connell Street,
Sydney (wholesale only).
only Perfedt Cleanser
for Artificial Teeth
DENSO
There’s nothing like it—people every-
where are praising DENSO.
DENSO quickly renders the plate sweet,
clean, healthful ; brightens the teeth, pre-
serves the gold, and is a perfect boon
to heavy smokers. Plates also fit better,
more comfortably after using DENSO.
If in doubt send Id. for postage on FREE
Sample. [1
Post Free in the
Commonwealth.
J. M. WILKES 8 CO.
1/6, 2/6 Box.
Alphington, Melb
Victoria, Australia
“ The Best of their
kind on Earth ! ”
—an American’s Compliment
to the World-famous
MOSGIEL
RUGS
THE RUG DE LUXE.
Obtainable at all
the Best Shops.
[1
LANCASTER’S
High=class Guns & Rifles
On view at Sole Agents—
HERBERT OXLEY & CO.
26 Strand Arcade, Queen Street,
AUCKLAND, N.Z.,
from whom full particulars and catalogues can
be obtained free by post.
CHARLES LANCASTER & CO. Ltd.
Gunmakers; to lI.M. King George V., 11 Panton
Street, Haymarket, London, Lug (Est. 1826)
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1549. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS
MONEY TO
LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New
Zealand. wat lowest current rates of interest.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; The Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black,M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. E. Winchombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
Knox, Esq., Iv.C. ; Sir Alex. MacCormick, M.D. General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teece, F.1.A.,
F.F.A.. F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
gf
After Shooting ,
Clean your Gun with
“3-in-One” Oil!
You will shoot all the better next
time !
“ 3-in-One” Oil goes right to
contact-points, reduces triction,
and makes action-parts work
smoothly.
Polishes the stock.
Removes residue of burnt powder
from barrel and breech. Free from
grease; never thickens; keeps
guns in perfect condition !
“Three-in-One” Oil is highly
refined, water-white, sweet smell-
ing, and most cleanly in use.
Obtainable everywhere.
Free Sample Bottle on request!
REID & RCID,
Australasian Agents,
82 R> Harris Street, Wellington, N.Z.
15
gf
HOWI L
THE HEART OE THE AUTOMOBILE—
THE FAMOUS
Sche bier Carburetter
The beat Carburetter for ALL PETROL ENGINES
—either Land or Marine, Stationary or Moving.
The Schebler makes your engine develop
greater horse-power for a less consumption
of fuel.
The Schebler holds many world’s records.
Booklet and all information free.
Correspondence in vited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for Australia.
The Royal
Tonic
The Tonic
of Queens!
wJSr.
PHOSFERI
*in*a\-4»v«4j*. UrMifU
tenue qni » ir ASHTON AW
m
rm
Pkosferine
This is unexcelled as a Nerve Tonic
—a proven remedy for Nervous De-
bility, Influenza, Indigestion, Sleep-
lessness, Exhaustion, Neuralgia, Ma-
ternity Weakness, Premature Decay,
Mental Exhaustion, Loss of Appetite,
Lassitude, Neuritis, Faintness, Brain-
Fag, Anaemia, Backache, Rheumatism,
Headache, Hysteria, Sciatica and dis-
orders consequent upon a reduced state
of the nervous system.
Beware of imitations! The Genu-
ine Phosferine is in a buff package,
labelled ASIITON & PARSONS, LTD.,
LONDON.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT ALL
CHEMISTS.
LAUDER Next Week!
Why not Now ?
The Hilarious Harry will be here him-
self next week —here in Sydney!
But there are many thousands who
will not get here to hear him!
Introduce the laughter-monger to
your OWN home, per media of
His Master’s Voice
Records.
They’re the best ever —audible and
laudable.
Over 40 on the list —forty of his
very best.
See that “His Master’s Voice” sign
is on every record you buy—it’s the
mark of quality.
All accredited “H.M.V.” dealers have
the Lauder records.
Instrument Catalogue, Record Lists,
and .name of nearest dealer on re-
quest.
Sole Concessionaires for
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 PITT STREET
SYDNEY.
<*=x**ntesatt»
Yon know it by this
Master's Voice*
a t*
3
©
Business. Bobbery, etc.
Little Tassy has discovered a new Uncle. Hitherto
the island has banked its public cash with the
Commercial Bank of Tasmania. And though that
Private Enterprise concern occasionally made ad-
vances to the Government, it was under no agree-
ment to do so. Now the public account has been
transferred to the Commonwealth Bank, and the
institution agrees to allow the State to run an over-
draft up to £lOO,OOO at the mere trifle of 4| p.c.
It is a mighty low rate, but presumably the business
can be made to pay.
The mystery of anybody yearning to serve his
country by also standing and waiting about while
others feed was partly explained last month in a
London police court. It was stated at the Old Bailey
that after two waiters at a Soho restaurant were
arrested for theft the takings increased by £5O a
week, although the number of customers was the
same. After the arrest seven other waiters at the
restaurant suddenly disappeared, without even wait-
ing- for their wages . Certainly, the wages of a Soho
restaurant waiter are nothing much to boast of, but
tips and “perks,” as a rule, tot up to anywhere
from £2 to £7 a week, according to the class of
restaurant and kind of customer. With (apparently)
a free run of the till thrown in, a young fellow
might do worse than take on a job like this, in
preference even to slaughtering or reportering.
“Quidam” : That they have some strange, barbaric
ideas of decentralisation in Britain is shown by the
creation of the new port of Metliil, on the Firth of
Forth. Fifeshire is rich in coal, but, as with many
districts in Australia, its resources were useless with-
out shipping facilities. It hadn’t a natural
port. In 1660 the Earl of Wemyss built
a small port that lasted 21 centuries. (Nobody
by the way, hanged or excommunicated him for his
sacrilegious deed.) In the late ’6o’s a descendant of
his improved and enlarged it. Then the North British
Railway Co. bought the lot from Wemyss for
£225,000. Now, by the expenditure of over
£1.000,000, the co. has a concrete seawall of 1680
yards in length, and great docks, and though the
maddened rollers of the German Ocean fling them-
selves 100 ft. into the air in their desire to demolish
the audacious structure, the loading of 200,000 tons
of Fifeshire coal per week has been arranged. “In
on one tide, and out on the other,” was the principle
which the Armstrong-Whitworth Co. was instructed
to keep in sight in designing the enormous coal hoists
with which the concrete-guarded port is fitted.
Methil will soon surpass Glasgow as the premier coal-
shipping port of Scotland. And yet the great dailies
of Glasgow and other parts of Britain, and the people
thereof, have raised no howl against Fifeshire having
the cheapest possible access to the sea. Some of them
even think it is something to be proud of.
* * * *
Britain ought to be thankful for the latest German
capture of its trade. Berlin papers are crowing
over the fact that foreign buyers, who formerly did
all their business in Britain, have placed orders for
a million tons of coal with German mines. If they
place many more orders in the same direction, the
paternal Fatherland Government will prohibit the
sale of coal to foreign Powers as Britain should have
done long ago.
* * * *
“T.E.A.”: The following notice is pasted in our
local barbering saloon :
“NOTICE.
“Conditions 1914. Till Further Notice. —-Toilet
Club fees for any fresh customer which not
been in it previous up till 31st Dec. 1913 would
be ss. for four weeks must be paid in advance extra
for haircut, if any person has paid his monthly
toilet club in the beginning of the toilet month
which follows Company for some reason or
other he is leaving during the month has been
paid for, same person entitled to call for tjie balance
of the month will be refunded to him. All cus-
tomers been in the Toilet Club previous to 31st Dec.
1913 shall be on the same conditions as previous no
extra Charges, unless they left and want to join
again then shall under the same rule which begin
Ist January 1914. The Toilet Club Subject to this
Condition. The Barber he will be absent for a few
days when compulsory on business.’’’
“C.E.”: Bright news for dwellers in the warmer
regions of Australia. They will be able to use the
sun instead of coal. A sun plant is working suc-
cessfully at Cairo, Egypt. Shuman, the designer,
has just lectured on it before the Manchester Asso-
ciation of Engineers. There are five trough-shaped
heat absorbers, each 204 ft. long by 13ft. wide. A
condensing engine drives pumps through gearing.
The absorbers are 24ft. apart, so as never to shade
each other. They automatically follow- the sun, and
always focus all available rays on the boilers. They
are huge mirrors, covered with cheap glass, silvered
at the back. Slung above each is a boiler, the
same length, but only loin, diameter. Cost of the
whole, £l5OO. A coal-burning plant of equal
capacity would have cost about "half, or £770, but
the saving on sun v. coal is £4lO a year. Wherever,
in the tropics, or sub-tropics, coal costs more than
10s. a ton, delivered, the sun plant will pay better
than any contraption that is driven by the substance
that we dig out of the earth.
GIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Shot—Shell!
What was that that fell?
Seemed as from the Pit it came
In a burst of glare and flame,
While the Yankee yelled aloud to let his navy loose ;
Begging folk to ict him stew the Greaser in his
juice;
Swearing by the Stars and Stripes he’d play the very
deuce
For Oil !
For Spoil—-
What a gory coil!
Mexico is burning for the sake of precious Oil!
Bang—Bang!
How the echoes rang!
Round the corner of the Bay
Over Vera Cruz the gay!
Some two hundred Mexicans have bit their native
dust
So that sundry foreigners may gratify their lust;
So that gold may freely fill the coffers of The Trust;
Oil!
Spoil!
What a gory coil!
Mexico is burning for the sake of precious Oil!
Smite —Slay !
Cut and clear away—
Bless the god who gave the gun,
Let the ruddy rivers run ;
Show the Browns and Yellows they are up against
the White.
Show them he’s a human shark that knows the way
to bite.
Show them he who has the Gun and knows the range
is Riuht.
For Oil!
For Spoil!
Raise a gory coil !
Mexico is burning for the sake of precious Oil!
Boom—Boom !
Like the crash of Doom !
When you wake the bitter greed,
Lurking in the human breed,
Anything is good enough to light the Devil’s brand ;
Diamonds down at Kimberley, or gold upon the Rand ;
Rubber on the Putumay, or petrol on the Grande!
For Oil,
For Soil,
For any kind of Spoil,
Africa is .set afire and Mexico to broil,
Murder’s loose upon the land and Hell is on the boil!
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


1
SILVER
BELT
&
IS
♦
ASS*
‘‘Rare Old vScotcH.
99
Robertson, Sanderson & Co. Ltd.
LEITH.
The Original Blenders of Whisky in Bond.


Safeguarding the Sale
is
m
m
m
mwm,
‘Wmffl
m
i
The whole purpose of the sale is to get more money into the
Bank.
Unless you have a proper system of safeguarding- the sale
you are safer with your stock in your shop than in the hands
of your customers. ■
Bile National Cash Register furnishes the only positive
system of safeguarding; every sale.
Theie is a kind and size of National built to meet the special
requirements of your shop.
Write for information about the National Cash
Register built for use in every line of business.
The National Cash Register Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE -—ll9 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches in all Principal Cities.
.
warn
Id
Always
a Big
Display
of the Latest and Best.
YOU find invariably at Stewart Dawson’s the
most effective combination of suitability and
value in Gifts for all occasions. Your tastes
find the happiest expression, no matter how critical
you may be; for, being in actual contact at all
points with the World’s Best, it follows that we
aie able to give lull expression to the authentic.
When you remember, too, that we are Manufac-
turers on a huge scale, thus eliminating the profits
of all Middlemen, you at once see the reason for
the lowness in prices prevailing at the “Treasure
House for Articles of Pennine Quality.
We illustrate a useful Wedding Gift—a Fine-
quality Sheffield Steel Carving Set, Stag Handles
with Silver-plated Mounts. Postage paid Prme
£4/10/- ° 1
W'e encourage you to .purchase by Post by mail-
ing a handsome Art Catalog free, and paying full
postage to any address. b
Stewart Dawson’s,
STRAND CORNER,
412 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY,
g
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
ĝf
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites,
invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
Price 1/- per Bottle. Of all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS Sc CO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
dgf
ƒĝ
voice with
VANS
FORMULA OF THE LIVERPOOL THROAT HOSPITAL
ANTISEPTIC THROAT
•Ihese wonder fully efficacious Throat Pastilles act like a charm in
keeping' the voice and throat in perfect condition.
T sed by Leading Singers throughout the world.
The celebrated Madame Tetrazzini writes: —“I thank you for the
boxes of Keans’ Pastilles sent me. which I find excellent and
efficacious.”
Ask for Keans' Pastilles and see you get them. [a
EVENING GOWNS
CALL for NECKLETS
of the daintiest and most fascinating designs.
,WE MAKE THEM.
Me secure the latest designs each mail, and
make them ftp on the premises.
We thus show the--very best work in Necklets,
arul yet sell them at bedrock prices.
Our stock of unset jewels is probably the
largest in Sydney, so that we are able at a
moment’s notice to make anv distinctive
ornament.
A.-i jewels pay no Custom duties, we sell
here as low as in London, and very often
lower.
FAIRFAX $ ROBERTS Ltd.
Plaiff Figures.
Strictly Cash.
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
3 Choice Aquamarines
and whole pearls, set
in fine gold, choicely
cased, £5/5/=
Whole Pearls and Dia-
monds, set in plati-
num, with platinum
It would be advantageous if someone possess-
ing a superfluity of that desirable commodity,
a Sense of humor, would bestow a few gallons
on the I.W.W: people and other cranks, who
annually orate on Yarra Bank, Melbourne,
on the first Sunday in May. One of the most
notable is “Chummy,” or J. W. Fleming,
an ordinarily peaceful Carlton bootmaker,
who for years has been prating of the “bro-
therhood of man,” etc. He professes to believe
m world-wide love and charity between all
workers, and berates and condemns all forms
ot government. He would wipe out all armies
and navies and utterly abolish gaols refor-
matories and police. And the listening crowd
sometimes proceeds to duck Fleming in the
Yarra by way of amusing itself. Likewise
the despised and abhorred police have to
i esc Mrf? Chummy and escort him home lest
us over-friendly “brothers” accid n tally keep
lnm too long in the Yarra. Yet. somehow, lie
never perceives the humor of tire situation
home people' never see a point till they sit on
it. and then the humor of the situation is the
most minus thing in the vicinity.
—7
“P.X.’ whites on the acclimatisation craze:
Er en the gentle, timid deer, which was imported
to Mainland to give the kniekerbockered English
tourist something to shoot at and make him feel at
home, can be a nuisance. There are seasons when
tha stag will tight anything smaller than himself;
and when the bundle of muscles with an outrageous
crop of horns on top of it meets a pound's worth of
mutton, it is bad for the mutton. A wav towards
the West Coast of the South Island, where the
kniekerbockered gentleman doesn’t use his gun much,
it is fairly common to find a woolly carcase looking
as though it had been mistaken for a sheaf of oats
and put through a threshing machine. And the
imported trout, which has a bad habit of tasting
like plain mud, can be a nuisance too. Once there
was a fair supply of native fish, which don’t taste
like mud, in Lake Wakatipu. But as a lake isn’t
really and truly a lake unless there are trout in it.
that ravenous creature was introduced, and soon
there were no native fish left. After the native fish
had gone the larger trout began to make their meals
of the other trout, and thrived so well that beasts
of over 201 b. in weight were landed. Apparently
this habit of eating one another went on until there
was only one old-man trout left, and as it is incon-
venient for even a trout to eat himself, and as there
was no resurrection for the native fish which was
eaten yesterday, the whereabouts of the one old-man
trout in Lake Wakatipu are now doubtful.
“Oldest Inhabitant” apropos tlie reference
of “Chasuble” (B, 30/4/T4) to the N.W.
corner of Queen and Collins streets, Mel-
bourne : “There are a couple of tragedies
connected with that corner. In 1837 one
Bowerman bought the corner for £OO- —paid
a couple of pounds deposit and repented. He
was a Sydney man, and started for his home,
leaving his deposit as a forfeit. The little
ship in which he sailed never reached Port
Jackson. It foundered with all on hoard.
Bowerman had a family in Sydney. The
son. grown to manhood, migrated to Queens-
land, and worked himself up to a police
magistracy. Want of ballast or something
troubled him. Called to “the carpet” by
Under-Secretary Manning (brother of Jus-
tice W. M. Manning), Bowerman assaulted
him badly. The unballasted one was sen-
tenced to penal servitude for life. It was
alleged that Manning could not live six
months. Parliament, in a frenzy, passed a.
tension Bill giving him £(>9o a year for life,
with half that amount to be continued to
his prospective widow. He lived over 30
years, and drew the pension regularly. On
lls , death the widow came in for her half,
and she died some three months ago. Bower-
man s wife worked her hardest to get her
husband released, and succeeded after some
years. She got a telegram announcing his
release on the morning of her death. Bower-
man s pluck failed him at last, and he shot
himselt m Sydney Domain about 12 years
alter lus release from gaol. In a letter he
it- J" , November was his unlucky month,
,s rather was drowned in that month. Ilis
episode with Manning happened in the same
month, and he himself was going to die in
.November."
C hurch item from "11. Sihgemoine”:—
I lib Hillktix s "Chief Romish Minion" is noi
nude accurate (23/4/’l4) in his remarks concerning
1 m duties of the Apostolic Delegate, Monsignor
( eietti. who is shortly to arrive in Australia.
eo tti will be much more than “a sort of- referee.
S' ms : l n -V, ecclesiastical points which Archbishops
Kelly and < an- may submit to him." Ilis office is
l at of a kind of Papal Governor-Gem ral —only more
i-i-’ii.. 1 on b’ represent the Pope in Aus-
I * w >,a 1 j )le } v, h. to all intents and purposes actuallv
be the 1 ope in so far as all Australasian ecclesiastical
affairs are concerned. Ilis authority will be absolute
o ei e\cry ( atholie cleric from the archbishops here
amt in MA. down (o the humblest of hedge-priests.
- sstime for the sake of argument that he disapproves
V/ Archbishop Kelly's somewhat futile outbursts on
ie education question. lie will be in a position
to direct the exasperated prelate to desist, and the
latter will have to do so without‘question. (It mar
lie mentioned, in parsing, that Cardinal Moran streii-
.V' and successfully opposed the institution of an
Apostolic Delegation in his time —he being one who
could in no wise brook interference from anybody.)
At present each Australian bishop is a law unto
himself. That is to sav there is no one in Australia
who can discipline him. From the moment the
Delegate arrives all that will bo changed. Pries!s
connected with “Orders”—that strenuous political
lighter, O Reilly of Bathurst, for example—are inde-
pendent at present of everyone, barring their Chiefs
in the Old World. But thev will have to defer abso-
lutely to the Delegate. There have been disputes,
a ,! n: V ly yeara ’ between the Franciscans and the
Archbishops of Sydney—that: js to say, both Moran
and Kelly. And now the Sacred Heart fathers out
Kensington way are more or less at issue with the
Archbishop. Tt has been a matter, in both eases,
ot cutting up parishes in a manner detrimental to
the revenues of flip Orders concerned. Their repre-
sentatives in Rome have upheld their cause, and the
Archbishop’s representatives contested their claims,
b) the nature of things finality was hard to arrive at.
Hie Delegate will settle all such matters out of hand.
1 lie meanest priest may appeal to him from the
orders of the most arrogant bishop. Also a bishop
who misbehaves, in any way, may be removed from
ins See, in the same summary fashion that an in-
competent day-laborer may he sacked from his job
—-all by the! aforesaid Delegate.
Ibis official will have liis own house, his own
suite of attefiVlgfds, and his own chapel, where he will
say mass and so forth. TTo will not speak in public:
or, except on purely personal matters, to the pres c .
I hough only a Monsignor he will take precedence'of
the Archbishops and even of a Cardinal, if another
Australian Cardinal is appointed. On his return to
Rome, at the end of his Delegation, he will he
made a Cardinal himself—like Satolli, Falconio and
others. . '
The new arrangement will, make for stricter dis-
cipline in the Church. Also, as The Bulletin’s
Chief Romish Minion” notes, it will be an influ-
ence on the side of modernisation and progress. The
new Delegate is a young man—not yet 50 years old
and one who has travelled much and consorted all
his life with cultivated and intelligent people. If
he doesn't give the Church the shaking-up of its life-
time, locally, things are not what they seem.


T ; ' :
■T : ■ ■
m ■
5-t
A
*V P .
*■ ■•■•*
•i-V..
fflf/'
si
ifeis
Xy^WwKg
%■-;4
*> #:
!
SBMsmSSitmsisi
HX®^'*****&S ■•'^
-II -
MJSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.
517 Clarence Street, SYDNEY. Or. Queen & Little Oollins Streets, MELBOURNE.
Only Electric Power
used in this Mine!
The Christopher Coal Co., Christopher,
111., U.S.A., is using Electric Power
from two 750 kw. Curtis Turbines for
every mining operation. Coal is cut,
hauled, hoisted, screened and loaded,
water is pumped and air exhausted
entirely by power from motors fur-
nished by the General Electric Co.
(U.S.A.). The mine is lighted
electrically, and its power controlled
by a G.E. Switchboard. This is but
another instance of the appreciation
which mine owners are showing in
money-saving electrical equipments
suggested bv G.E. mine experts.
Largest Ilgner System
Hoist in America!
The double drum hoist in use by the
Christopher Coal Co., U.S.A., has 7ft.
drums designed for a useful load of
90001 b. in a car and cage weighing
11,0001 b. additional. It is guaranteed
to make 1000 trips from 600 ft.
in 7 hours. The hoist is driven by
an llOOh.p. 55j0 v. Direct Current G.E.
Motor. ~ Power is supplied by a fly-
wheel Motor Generator set consisting
of a 650h.p. G.E. Induction -Motor
and an 800 kw. G.E. Generator with
a 17k.w. G.E. Exciter. The efficiency
of this hoist is high, juyl an automatic
rheostat equalises the fluctuations of
the hoisting load. Our Coal Mine
Bulletin, No. 4665, will be sent you
on request.
THE LAST WORD
IN STEAM ENGINES IS UNQUESTIONABLY
MARSHALLS
which have demonstrated their superiority in every part of the Globe, and in every glass of work, over a penod of 60 veare.
f
QUALITY and Positive RELIABILITY
are MARSHALL’S Watchwords
Ask any of the hundreds of satisfied users of MARSHALL'S PORTABLES, STEAM
TRACTIONS, OIL TRACTORS, BOILERS, etc., throughout New South Wales,
what they think about their purchase, and you will be quite convinced.
“Can't be beat," “Best on earth," “Working constantly for 50 years without a hitch,"
“Worth their weight in gold," “Not a moment's lost time these are a sample
of the remarks we hear every day throughout the year.
Don't be persuaded into believing
Send for Descriptive Catalog
there are other engines just as good as
post free.
CASH OR VERY EASY TERMS.
MARSHALL’S!
R. L. SCRUTTON <& CO.
161 CLARENCE STREET,
“COURTESY and ATTENTION AT COST PRICE .


Shipping.
and
O.
BRANCH SERVICE
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
_Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
•BELTANA ..
•BALLARAT
•BORDA
COMMONWEALTH.
‘Twin Screw. All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
£l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7-17s.
. or re t>'rn, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD. , 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills di Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE.
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
ORMONDE.
ORAMA
ORVIETO .
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA .
ORONTES .
OMR AII
Fitted with
? us , learners. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
ledsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
l2 Martin Place, Sydney.
Hanking. Public Companies, Ac.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President). W. 11. O’M. WOOD,
11. D. HALL.
DEPOSIT YOUR SURPLUS MONEY
Bank, where it will earn INTEREST
at 3i% on the first £2OO, knd 3% on the
““f, £5OO, and be REPAIRABLE ON
JiIiMAND when you require it.
Deposits Received -from Is.
MONEY TO LEND ON MORTGAGE
at Low Interest to Farmers and Settlers and
on Approved City and Suburban Freeholds.
This Bank has No Agencies at Post Offices.
Represented in the State by 118 Branches
and over 500 Agencies.
By order of the Commissioners,
•L 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £382,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY'
Hon. ROBERT PIITLP, M.L.A. ; lion A J
TIIYNNE, M.L.C. ' '
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Hear! Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 242 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act )
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .£2 000 000
SUBSCRIBED .. £ 1198
PAID-UP (31st Dec., 1913) . . £1195 446
RESERVE FUND . . . . . .
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney
LONDON OFFICE-2 King William, Street, E.C
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Mark Sheldon
Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq. ; Frank n'
Yaryvood, Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysagiit, Esq.
Branches throughout ifew South Wales & Queensland
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1SG3.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under '
■.agreement extending to Jupe 30, 1921.
Subscribed' Capital £800,000 0 0
Capital- Paid-Up 413.418 0 0
Reserve Fund 154,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,069 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunnimr
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. g ’
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East’
The Colonial fQutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endoivments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed
Chief Office for Nkyv South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C., M.P.
k. BOSS MILLER. Resident Secretary
Shipping.
XT ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD, N.D.L.
IMPERIAL MAIL StEAMERS,
T °snn'm S \Miv S UEZ ' NAPLES, GENOA, ALGIERS,
viV v, I,ramerB nttea 'Y“h Wireless Installation.
All fitted with Oimdry.
F A RES T ° -LONDON; II., £4O;
f i«A t 0 £l9,i I., £lO7/5/-; 11.,
£ ®o; v « l ., £3O/12/-Yto £37/16/
EQHMANN and Cp..'General Agents, 7 Bridge-st.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
- Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti), j
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
> AMERICA or EUROPE.
The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
Cabins de luxe, with private bath, etc.
TOne, two and tliree-berth rooms.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 2 days at Wellington and 24 hours
at Papeete—“ The Pearl of the Pacif c. ”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND. LT.D.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth & London.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
Steamer. j Tons j Commander, Leave Svdnev
THEMISTOCLES.. ITM H, A. Schleman
*k J^ rHON •• 8.000 P. J. Collins .
.?m! lOSrUKNES ’ 11,400 A. Robb
tEURIPIDES ..15,000 A. H. Douglas,
I R.N.R.
June 8
July 13’
Aug. 10
Sept. 7
Triple-screw Turbine. tNew steamer.
Steamers Fitted with Wireless.
Tnnlfi 00 ?’ FARES— Third-class.
London, from £45. £l6 to £2O
Capetown and Durban, from £3O. £l3/13 to£l7/17/-’
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line,
Orien°t) (FlrSt ’ CIaSS b ° th Ways) : £B2 (Second-class
ahle al w£v. R ir U nV a ?, C ! st °P'° ver tickets interchange-
ReL „s H f # Blue Funnel Line. Third-class
I\i'o Service° P ’ oVer tlckets interchangeable with
ROUND-THE-WORLD TICKETS from £122/10/-.
THTRn^T ( A A c£ IN A S °" Up ? er and brid S e decks -
dard ASS Accomniodatlon of the highest stan-
Pamphlets Time-Tables," gtc., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY. LTD., Agents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as folloWs (circumstances permitting)
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(P.t. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
"CAIRNS.
("Transhipping for
this and' other
Queensland ports).7
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tong).
Leaves Sydney May 23.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne May 27.
Leaves Sydney May 30.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne June 3
Leaves Sydney June 6.
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping- for
S.A. and AV.A. ports).
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney May 23.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney May 30.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
ISLAND TOURS
TO PAPUA
(via the Queensland Coast.)
A Charming Combination
Tour.
S.S. ** MORINDA,”
MAY 27.
Brisbane, Cairns, Port
Moresby, Samarai, Woodlark
Island and Yule Island.
£2O.
gf
TO THE NEW HEBRIDES
(via Lord Howe and Norfolk
Islands).
53 DAYS’ TRIP.
S.S. “ MAKAMBO,”
JUNE 1.
Calling at about 100 Trading
and Mission Stations
throughout the Group.
dc.2 5-
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Head Office, SYDNEY.
EW SOUT
Established 1817.
H WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
gdf
£3,500,000
£2,350,000
£3,500,000
£9.350.000
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, lit., M.L.C
President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand McLaunn, Kc.,
The Hon. Janies T. Walker
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black. M.L.C.
M.L.C.
M.L.C.
Head Offio« D rP«^ Al i+ ed e CO i ge Milson > Es< J' : William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
* So°S;;,;,°*r?;„!, , eV L s K, o c ffi z“7„ i d 9 ™" , ?.z* a .!5 8 f• t°-
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World. ’ J * 1 apua ant * London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign nlaops DIRPPT it/>*»«■; n>ll
THE f|m collected, Letters of Credit and Circular NoteH»ued. NKOOTTABLE THROUGHOUT
* ' —— tJ . r K.FNCH-, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£1,976,168 15 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,680,000 0 0
Reserve Capital . . .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,656,168 15 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq... .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Hater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. II. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: IS Birchin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton ; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank, of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares .. .. .. 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£544,654 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 156,136 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 78,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man., Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
26 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C. ’
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price 6d.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers, 17 knots
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS BE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
SONOMA ..
VENTURA
June 6 Aug. 1 | Sept. 26 I Nov. 21
_________ j July 4 Aug-. 29 j Oct. 24 j Dec. 19
T in e 29 1 |Davi 1 v t ! riP c to En B' and can be accomplished
MTURv f Via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE,
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
T H ■ North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
lar!y e t 0 (^ Pany ' S magnificent Steamers trade regu-
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE BELLTNCPi?
NAMBUCCA, MACLEA Y AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY COFFN
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA. ’ C ° FF S
Combination Tickets are issued in coniunetinn
h' Y AEES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANF*
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah’
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers’
there connecting with one of the Company’s un to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa P y s up t 0
steamFr ND £6 I^ E L S '~ FirSt^ Cla , SS rail and saloon on
onXamef £4-2s 6d. SeC ° nd ' ClaSS rail a “ d steerage
For Guide and all particulars apply ■—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
UNITED
THE
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000
Fire Insurances
effected cm all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks.
on Wool. Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insjrannns
tu- <<n j various classes.
The United is tn Australian Institution.
1 iiOiiAS Al. TINLEY, Manager.
Shipping;.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
PREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WAN DILLA (8000
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
- June 6 and July 4.
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon land
* Steerage Passengers.)
Brisbane
mackay
TOWNSVILMV
And Ports North to Cairns.
WARILDA (8000 tons).
May 30, June 27 and
July 25. Wireless Tele-
graphy.
thp fw D P^ SSa / e „ llckets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
“i 1 ■ ei 7 ,ces sub l ect to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE.” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS
bLtftimer, nttea witn cabins-de-luxe' en
suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
First Saloon passengers to Honolulu and points
beyond wishing to break journey at New Zealand
may proceed by Intercolonial steamer from Sydney
without extra charge.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
STEAM TO LONDON AND LIVERPOOL.
T.S.S. ESSEX .
11,000 Tons. CAPTAIN BROWN.
BRISBANE . . about JUNE 5, 1914.
SYDNEY .. „ JUNE 10, 1914.
MELBOURNE . . ~ JUNE 14, 1914.
ADELAIDE . . „ JUNE 16, 1914.
FARES TO LONDON
Saloon, £4O. Third-Class, £l3/13/- to £l7/1-7/-
Saloon Fares from Brisbane, £2 extra.
Steerage, £l/1/- extra.
Saloon accommodation consits of all two-berth
cabins on Upper Deck situated amidships. Well-
lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
. Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provi-
sions from cool chamber throughout the voyage.
Electric light throughout. Return- and round-trip
tickets issued via Cape and/or Suez Canal. Prepaid
passages arranged. Fitted , with wireless.
For illustrated pamphlets and full information
apply
BIRT & COMPANY, LTD., Sydney and Brisbane
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY LTD
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER. SMITH & COMPANY LTD., Adelaide
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“ Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
"Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
:: THE NEW ::
AUSTRALIAN NIB
GOLDEN WATTLE
dgf
DOES NOT BREAK OR CORRODE, AND
WRITES WITHOUT HARSHNESS AND
SCRATCHING. IT HELPS TO FORM
THE LETTERS NEATLY, SO AS TO GIVE
CHARACTER TO THE WRITING. LADIES
LIKE IT FOR ITS SILKEN SMOOTHNESS.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
321 FUNDERS LANE
s MELBOURNE :


Hotels. &c.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 15/6 per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundunce of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
ƒgd
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/1t
Directions with every
bottle
MADAME LEIGH,
22& 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
0000Q0O OOP
for a fair dinkum go
TRY THE
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
♦ IV
Bank of Bustralta
SYDNEY
This Bank is open lor all classes of GENERAL BANKING BUSINESS
STANWAY HOUSE, KING STREET, SYDNEY
Also at Newcastle, Broken Hill, Oubbo, Canberra, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Perth, Hobart, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville and London,
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the worid. Bills negotiated or iorwarded for
collection. Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
Advances made against approved securities.
SAVINGS SANK DEPARTMENT
Central Office: 30 CASTLEREAGH STREET (top of Moore Street), BYDNEY.
Branches in the above cities and 2,000 Agencies at Post Offices throughout the Commonweaitn
Deposits from 1/- to £3OO. Interest at 3% per, annum.
Deposits or Withdrawals may be made at any Brancn or Agency within the Commonwealth.
JAMES KELL, Dbputy Governor. May, 191 k. DENISOV MILLER, Govirnor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
SEE THAT YOUR PURCHASE
BEARS THE GENUINE MARK
fgd
Waterman’sfldeanTountain Pen
Nib* to
Suit Every
Hand. A
fgdfgd
ďfg
This Trade Mark stands the world over as
a guarantee of satisfying pen service and life-
long writingcontentment. Waterman’s Ideal is always
in order, always ready to write, always trustworthy.
In four types —Regular, Safety, Self-Filling and Pump-Filling.
Of stationers and Jewellers everywhere. ■■
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd., LONDON, England.
(Australia : 350, George St„ Sydney.* Write for booklet.
WHEN YOU SHAVE WITH A “PLUM”
USM
S-
VA
You get full satisfaction.
Every shave is an easy shave, because the blade of a “Plum” razor is
always keen.
Made from finest steel and tempered to perfection, the edge cuts as
clean and sweet as you can wish.
Worth half a dozen ordinary razors because of the satisfaction it gives.
SEND FOR ONE TO-DAY 10 6 Post Free.
We keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a handsome present.
All the Above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEOROE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
CHALLENGE.
MURPHY CHALLENGES THE WORLD
TO CURE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL
BLEEDING PILES?
Permanent Cure. Established 1891.
MURPHY’S PI-LiE PILLS, NON-
APERIENT,
have cured thousands of cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by
ANDREW MURPHY, WOY WOY,
N.S.W., Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, or a Course of 8
boxes £l. All postage free. ■
On Sale by all Druggists, Chemists and Store-
keepers throughout the - States.
ĝfd
Firmly established
* in Australia •
Horlick’s Malted Milk, the
Health Food-Drink,ha* thous-
ands of staunch supporters
in the Commonwealth. Being
made of the purest Cream-
milk and Cereals evaporated
to a fine powder, it is ready
for immediate use and needs
no cooking.
It builds up body and brain,
and gives health and strength
to all ages. It is the most
easily digested Food - Drink
ever produced, and its effects
on your health are immediate
and lasting.
No change of climate
affects it, and it is ideal for
use in Australia. ,v i
0/ all Chemists and Stor
Get Horlick’s at the
Soda Fountain .-
J
HORUCKS
'MALTED MILK
gfd
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA fbr GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARAIHS’
Egyptian Ilcnna before all others p it is the,best and
cheapest, 1 have ever used.”
“Aralns” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive y-m. Look, for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
.
-
„„ jSNM*?* **%:»< vfa ' *
v 1 , „<•
» .*,,*«•* ,
ii ■®pi
■
FREE
Once installed, THE AUTOMATIC WIND MOTOR cart be run
practically for nothing: it is driven by the wind and requires
NO FUEL whatever to generate elect is no
Smell or Dirt, NO RISK from Fire, Shock or Explosion.
The power generated will safely light your home in the most modern, convenient and healthy
manner. j
The heating of dwelling rooms is thereby reduced to a minimum, and the soiling and air-j
vitiating effects of gas, oil and other illuminants is obviated, and, further, the fire risk is nil.
Electric fans can be driven to render hot summer days more bearable, and free the home
from flies, mosquitoes and other winged pests.
The domestic problem i£ solved by the furnishing of cheap power for vacuum cleaners,’’
electric irons, Avashing machines, etc. . - '
A small freezing machine, capable of turning out ten or, in the larger sizes, a proportion-
ately greater number of pounds of ice per hour, can be driven. This feature in itself should
commend the plant to those who are forced to reside in the hotter districts of Australia, and, in;
combination Avith the furnishing of electric light, will do much to give the country dweller some
of those comforts only at present enjoyed by the city man.
The large* plants can be utilised for driving shearing-machines, chaff-cutters, churns,
pumps and other machines where moderate poAvers are intermittently required.
Many pumping problems otherwise impossible of solution by the ordinary windmill pump
can be solved by the ’Automatic Wind Motor, since it can be placed in the most exposed position,
and the poAver generated transmitted by wires to a pump driven by an electric motor.
We shall be pleased at all times to advise prospective clients as to the size of plant best i
suited to their individual requirements, or to explain any doubtful points. ......
' i
All Communications to be addressed to
HAES & EGGERS, LTD.
163 Clarence Street
SYDNEY.


fgd
5 the ■
“WALLABY "
EMPEROR”
RIDING
BOOT
GIVES YOU LONGER SERVICE!
Fashioned from the genuine
Queensland wallaby hide;
tanned in a hardy way.
The “Wallaby” is as soft
as silk, yet as tough as
wire in the wearing.
If you spend a good deal
of your time in the saddle
the “WALLABY EM-
PEROR” is the boot for
you.
Black - - - 16 6
Tan - - - - 17 6
Postage, 1/- extra.
SEND FOR A PAIR ON
APPROVAL.
Have you had patterns of
Pike Brothers’ Riding
Tweeds ?
THEY ARE FRJJE.
Write for them to-day.
Also their Shirt Samples.
PIKE BROTHERS Limited
Townsville. BRISBANE. Toowoomba.
“ A ,# ournal j st and Two Bears.” A collection of
the tales and verse of Janies Edmond, reprinted
£*“ Bu , LLETIN and The Lone Hand. r i C e
One Stalling, from all booksellers, or 13 pence direct
from the publishers, The Platypus Press, 117 Bath-
urst Street, Sydney.* aui
A Hot Weather Trouble Avoided.
TRUMILK
(SKIM)
M
I ' V
Place Powder on top cold water and beat with Egg Whisk for a minute. Result —
beautiful milk free from germs, suitable for a|f.purposes.
NO MILK GOING ,'SQUR, ■■ NO ICE NEEDED.
Ask your grocer for a small tin.
Queensland Agents: WEBSTER & CO. LTD M Mary Street, Brisbane.
New South Wales Agents: FOGGITT JONES & CO. LTD M Sussex Street, Sydney.
IN BANANA LAND
“P.X.” writes:—
The S. M. Herald seems to know that, ft ought
to fight the Meat Trust; but that would mean get-
ting into the same corner as the Labor party, which
would be too terrible for words. So it contents itself
with leaning over the ropes and remarking that the
Trust is a blackguard and a person quite unfit for
good society. “But what’s the good of knocking it
out?’’ it asks. “If the meat ring can control the
outside markets, what benefit will it be to us if we
can say we are masters in our own house?” Ini
other words, if the Trust can bump us in England,!:
why shouldn’t it be allowed to come in and bump
us also in Australia? What the Herald refuses to
see is that, if Australia can avert the bump till it
reaches the foreign market, by keeping control of its
own exports, it will meet the Trust where its game
is to keep the price of beef and mutton high, so that
the bump in that case may be not much of a bump,
after all.
“Albion”: Bushmen in Western Queens-
land are having a particularly bad time at
present with typhoid. At date of scribbling
there are a goodly number of typhoid
patients in the Charleville hospital, many
of whom have come from outside places. Of
late typhoid has been playing the devil at
Roma, Mitchell, /Charleville, Gunnamulla
and St. George. During the past three
months three deaths have occurred at Mit-
chell. The victims were all from the bush,
and they were brought in too late. One time
the bushmen were notoriously indifferent as
to the water they swallowed, but they are
getting more careful, and it pays. Some
think that the prevalence of typhoid is
attributable to the artesian bores, but, then,
it has raged disastrously in places .far. re-
moved from bores. ..
“Kai” : Brisbane jubilated the day "before
last month when the first of the big White
Star liners;' the Suevic; poked its nose -into
the Pinkenba reach. Commander English,
who rejoices in the titles of R.D., R.N.R.,
F.R.G.S., e.tc., has a poor opinion of Bris-
bane’s front door. He opines, and the
majority of the oversea skippers agree, that
it would be better for shipping of the White
Star class if only the north-west channel
was in use, and marked by a lightship. This
would be a heap safer than using two chan-
nels, one of which is in almost a direct line
with Smith’s reef, the scene of the St. Paul
tragedy. The. master of the Suevic depre-
cates the idea of placing a buoy over Smith’s
rock —reckons it would not last two minutes
THE SCENT OF THE LAW.
HIS HONOR (to witness): “Did you notice anything to convince you that the accused had
been drinking?”
CONSTABLE : " ‘Oi did, y’r Honor. Oi detected a horrible shmell av broken bottles.”
in some of the storms which sweep over this
coast—and when an experienced man with
a string of letters floating after him like
the nebulae of a comet comes along, it were
well to give heed to him. Smith’s Rock,
and, in fact, the whole entrance-way, is a
scandal, and should be handed over to the
consideration of the Federal Bureau of!
Navigation, or. the Commonwealth . Drown-
ing Department or whatever it is.
“P.F.”: The attempted revival of the
Separation movement in Rockhampton,
under Liberal-Labor auspices, reminds one
that no cause was ever more scandalously
abandoned by its generals than the old
Separation upheaval. Philp, Curtis, Kid-
ston, dll professed themselves its ardent
devotees, and all deserted it, brazenly and
shamelessly. The new baby doesn’t strike
one as being particularly vigorous, and will
probably finish up as an abandoned infant.
“P.F.”: The Thomas Mcllwraith memorial
fund thrives in a mild sort of way, and
stands at present at about £2500. T. J.
Byrnes is the only Queensland Premier up to
date whose carven similitude adorns a public
highway. There was much promise about
Byrnes, but death cut his career short when
he had been Premier for a handful of months.
Lilley,. that sturdy old democrat, finds his
memorial in his free, secular and compulsory
Education Act —a measure daily undermined
by narrow-minded denominational meddlers.
“Rangan” : It is a comparatively easy
thing in Bananaland to get a promise of a
railway near election time, and if all the
promised lines in the land were built,
Bananaland’s network of railways would put
John Bull to, shame. It is also*easy to get a
sod or two turned. Sometimes it is easy
to get a . line started. But the oldest in-
habitant is seldom old enough to see a pro-
mised line completed. Several years back a
line was started to connect the Dawson coal-
fields with Mount Morgan, 80 miles away.
Dawson coal lias received the best reports
of all Queensland coals, and has the dis-
tinction of. receiving not one adverse report.
The Government Geologist estimates
10,000,000 tons proved, and 70,000.000 in
reserve. The Australian Navy is crying out
for a suitable coal. Yet' in three years the
line pushed 30 miles out -from Mount Mor-
gan, and hasn’t been heard of since. It
may be wandering round in a circle; anv-
how, it hasn’t reached the coalfields. Cen-
tral Bananaland is appealing to Minister
Paget to send out a search party.
The View of Piker’s Lane.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Cells nicely lighted ; books and papers —such is tke
prison. A movement is afoot to. get Harry Lauder
to pay a visit, as he did at Pentridge.
—Brisbane paper.
Oh ! Lend us' ’arf a moment while I tell a
simple tale
About the lot of ’onest folk that’s never bin
in gaol;
They live on toast and porridge and on
tater-pie—but, wuss,
They get no recreation that is worth a bloom-
in’ cuss.
W’en Lauder goes ter prison
The coves sit up an’ listen;
But ’opes for Lauder’s singin’ in our alley
is in vain,
Fer Scotty never warbles, on the gratis, in a
lane.
I ’ear the cells is comfy now; they’re lighted
and they’re warm,
There’s books and picture-papers if there is
the uniform ;
And chanceU-ttre, w’en Melba comes or Clara
Butt arrives,
A patch o’ primer-donner will drop in upon
their lives ;
There’s precious little hurry
And there ain’t a bit o’ worry,
The price o’ meat don’t get ’em down and
slog ’em in their sleep,
And month-end don’t distract ’em with; the
risin’ cost o’ keep. *
We’re glad, indeed, to learn that Sikes is
’appy in ’is ’ome,
And Fagin never feels ’e ’as the least desire
to roam;
If they wuz free in Piker’s Lane they’d
maybe lose a treat
An’ find it little comfort dodgin’ “X” upon
’is beat.
They miss their pewter beery,
But the gaol is bright an’ cheery,
Fer the tenor sings o’ Sally an’ the breezy
baritone
Lifts the rafter and the laughter with a
music of his own.
O’ course we ain’t repinin’ that the ?crooks
should ’ave it good—
There’s many a man among ’em woul(j be
decent if he'could.
But w’y should folk be ’onest if it keeps ’em
dull an’ gray
W’ile in the gaol the nightingale can make
it smilin’ gay?
If poor folk must not grumble
That .their way .in life is ’umble
It’s just as well to show ’em that their Lot
is not a Sin
>And ope the door o’ Poverty and let the
Gladness in.
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER F.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, May 18, 1914.
My Dear Thargomin.daii,—
Hartmann Just, Assistant Under-Cook of
State for the Colonies, arrived here by train
on Tuesday night. On Thursday he hurriedly
munched a few bones at Parliament House,
and on Friday he trained to Blackall. lie
will scamper over quite a lot of country be-
fore he hurries back to you on May 25.
Before departing for Rockhampton, the
small Briton was present at a police parade,
and cast an admiring eye at our smart-look-
ing and well-mounted men. Later on a
band of business folk. . captured him and
showed him over the Q.M.E. and A.M.C.
works.
I have it on good authority, by the way,
that the correct pronunciation (at Oxford)
of Just is Yoost. Hartmann is the son of
the Just who was German master at Bristol
Grammar School. This progenitor had 12
children and the princely salary of £l5O a
year. Hartmann got a clerkship in the pub-
lic'service, and after Under-Secretaried for
the Earl of Derby and a few other peers. An
old school friend of his, Allpass, Director of
the Toowoomba Technical College, will play
host to the visitor next week.
During the next week Governor Macgregor
and Just will be travelling over black-soil
country per motor. When the machine
becomes partly buried (as it will about every
10 minutes if the rain continues), and has to
be dug and hauled from its muddy bed, the
touring Under-Sec. will gather experience.
The big trees of experience grow 400 ft. high
in the West.
The four vacancies in the Legislative Coun-
cil, or House of Dust and Ashes, are to be
filled, according to Mrs. Rumor, by four
Brisbane, business men. A. M. Hartzberg,
John Reid and A. D. Walsh are three that
are .mentioned as likely candidates. The
cockies’ union is sure to raise its voice in
an exceedingly loud and bitter cry if this is
so, as it considered that-atrleast two of the
vacant chairs should have been given to their
representatives. Premier Denham, bringing
home less than one-fifth, of the money he set
out to borrow, will no doubt be in time to
enjoy the finish of the row.
Victorian Director of Education Tate and
his daughter arrived in Brisbane last Mon-
day by the Omrah.
This town is in a flurry of preparation for
the visiting scientific Britons. Dr. Rivett
and his wife called in this week, carefully
stirred the flurry to fever heat, and then
departed to the South. While here, Pro-
fessor Steele’s roof kept the rays of the semi-
tropical sun and the scent of the flying fox
from the visitors.
The Brown-Lumsdens, who used to be
mere Browns until a. legacy, with the “Luins-
den” attached, fell into‘their laps, are holi-
daying in London. When the aforesaid legacy
took them out of Queensland, it helped to ex-
change sunny Australian skies for the grey
ones of Aberdeenshire. Incidentally, that
dull locality should have been cheered up a
whole lot by the addition of three very pretty
Australian girls.
Another of Brisbane’s prettiest girls, Myla
Bracker, this week exchanged her freedom
for a plain gold circlet. Roystone Marcus,
who hails from Adelaide, was responsible for
her decision. Nellie Bracker (sister) and
Nellie McDougall, a cousin of the bride, flut-
tered helpfully behind her, and Ken
McSwaine skilfully produced the ring at the
correct moment. After all, the “to h4ye and
to holds” had been mentioned, the party hur-
ried back to the Bracker home at Clayfield,
and applied itself earnestly to the wedding
cake. Mr. and Mrs. Marcus are at present
in your State. I don’t know why all honey-
moon couples should go there, but they do.
All musical Brisbane has been spending
its evenings at His Majesty’s Theatre, where
tenor Paul Dufault has been uplifting a
glorious voice. An attempt on his second
appearance to evade singing the “Invictus”
was thwarted by the audience remaining
glued to its chairs until the song was forth-
coming. Then it cheered up and went home
or somewhere else—probably somewhere else.
Miss Bindley adds to. her charming voice
a very pretty taste in dress, and she, too,
has become very popular here. Violinist
Toy once dwelt for a space in this hamlet,
and all his friends turned out to hear him
play his fiddle. Harold Whittle for his
poetical accompaniments received a special
ovation.
Matron Hunter is departing from the
Brisbane General Hospital, where she has
reigned for nearly eight years. The
A.T.N.A., of which the lady is hon. secre-
tary, will unfurl meat pies and tea in her
honor.
Handsome Mrs. J. A. Robertson writes
dolefully from New York State, where she
is dwelling with son Leslie, a graduate at
Cornell University. The two Australians
find the American winter a very frost-bitten
show.
Mayoress Jenkinson called her first meet-
ing yesterday. The business was a citizens’
ball, to steer money into the coffers of the
Children’s Hospital. The Mayor pained a
few of the council’s employees the other
day when he mentioned casually that the
latter had either to wdrk or to go. Nearly
all fresh mayors get that shout off their
chest when they first strut in rabbit-skins.
After that the surrounding fur seems to
suffocate them. Anyhow, the matter ends
there.
The Brisbane Liedertafel gave a concert
on Tuesday, and in spite of the Dufa.ujff
concert on the same night the house
good one. (Some houses are no good
all, being merely a receptacle for whim
ants.) Our own songstress, Mrs. Gilbert
Wilson, looking remarkably handsbme in a
black and emerald green gown, was the solo-
ist. As usual, she disappeared under an
avalanche of flowers.
Nellie Jones, daughter of that veteran
clergyman, Canon Tommy Jones, was fare-
welled on Thtirsday 'evening ere departing to
the Solomons, where she hopes to convert
discolored ladies and gentlemen and intro-
duce them, to the Word and the revised edi-
tion of the Figleaf.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“McNorth” : Is Rupert Clarke a member
of a Peace Society, or what was it that
; caused him to go off the rails in re his pro-
posed Fly River trip, as follows? —
There is not the least likelihood that we shall have
trouble with hostile blacks. Experience has shown
that hostility has, almost invariably, been due to
some hostile act of the white man in the first place.
Now, the Pryke brothers are members of
Rupert’s party. They were attacked by
hostile natives on the Lakekamu and in other
places. Were they to blame, and if so, why
didn’t their leader get more respectable asso-
ciates? Also, if friendliness is all that is
needed to achieve security, why is the Clarke
expedition making its dash up the Fly in
what amounts, in all the circumstances, to
an armored gunboat? This talk of the in-
offensiveness of the civilly-treated savage is
all nonsense. Every white starts by being
civil, as a mere matter of business. But it
fails nearly as often as it succeeds. There
are plenty of instances of peaceful whites
being butchered by natives without provoca-
tion in Papua—Weaver, a harmless old man,
who was killed a few miles from Port Mores-
by ; missionaries Chalmers and Tomkipk; who
provided lunch for the people of'Goaribari;
and many others. Even the writei-j one of
the mildest-mannered coves or blokes on re-
cord, once ran into a shower of arrows while
journeying in a canoe in the Gulf of Papua
in a place where he had not seen a strange
nigger for days. The said writer couldn’t
have been the aggressor, as he didn’t know
the nigs were there till the arrows began to
arrive. The heathen was hidden in the nipa
palms which fringed the river. That parti-
cular part of the river was, for the time
being, a most unhealthy place for a peace
propagandist.


‘ CHUNDER”
TAKES A TRIP HOME. — Shown over English Works.
■ Sc
* s'l.
. ►• - -Tr-«n»si», /AS y
x >
JVneWH^/
1
sssgsa^^'*
•S'- v.
J?
-2. r */* V'/'X
S® Ssl
giupdl
.^L^iHrVrr'
saaEsU
skim
*/*!*&+■
•r£ r V'
M ■
-4“ 'V
i v
V ■>*
£fSfej|
sflfcd
.-f
»«*=*
£O-" < &
!%s£p
,j.-"
-SSSBe*
terQgi&tS.
#i
fl*Wss» — /
IS§aeP?=i
**Bji
sS&S^I
-cwrj-'i
SS»*wv
Ssr
feS-;:
'^">Y’y- r
l*xC‘
?>&
-j^i
tHr.. •*Hv-'"rl <
-'. - -
Si
S§sS£^
v£s=>
§gg%»
Nk
A- =
■m
:-F "I
U
T?<
/ ~
m
m
mm
fra i [
mf-m !
Mi
Si :
t- -
sa
- sap
lrj»S-
-*,./*;
3**rT.~
S»
iy<r^
if*
u
ifi !
SOKK3*jH Jr**
IfesM
!l 1
,/^1
.-'—i
/,<$
>"\
*'sSO!*f
r J
f#3l
Top
?m§h
°iS* tf
m s
i
P
rJftmm
V
K
\
*■>
i
i£
/
-xV,
m
. r^K^fT
MM
'A\
*rr\
mmi
> X Mi
f IPwJ
m
KB
gg
W?,r
ry.f
/
■sj.&
§O2
v/m-
WA
// &wmß
w.
n
/,gm
'/f/fSA
C"
m
Wim
'J-S
sfe
> j >^:
C'.f
S-l2j£F v - >
Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
With the bear
Is ushered through
Where the "“COBRA’
Workers stay 5 '
Packing polish
Day by day.
There one cute
Contrivance spins
Filling many
Million tins
Evry hour !
Great its worth,
For it brightens
All this earth.


WINTER
ILLNESSES
Susceptibility to colds,
coughs, sore throat, tonsi-
litis, and many winter
illnesses, indicates a weak-
ened and impaired vitality.
A spoonful of SCOTT’S
Emulsion, taken three
times a day, drives out
that weakness, builds up
every part of the body
and increases the natural
disease-resisting forces.
After illhecs SCOTT’S
Emulsion shortens conva-
lescence and aids Nature to
restore the vigour, vitality
and power of health. No
imitation is half so good as
genuine
fgd
which can al-
ways be re-
cognized by
the fishman
trade mark on
the package*
LACTOBACILLINE.
w
The Bacillary treatment of Bacterial and Fermen-
tative affections of the-alimentary canal. Lact’obacil-
line pits the vigorous' lactic ferment against the
less resistant organisms of decomposition, with the
result that the latter are immediately destroyed.
Lactobacilline is prepared under
supervision and control of
the scientific
PROFESSOR METCHNIKOFF.
It is prepared in tablets, to be “eaten with meals,
and by checking intestinal putrefaction exerts a
remarkable influence towards the attainment of
perfect health. It is of special value in all affec-
twns of the digestive tract, auto-intoxication, oolites,"
intestinal catarrh, chronic dyspepsia, etc. Everv
cylinder of tablets bears the words:
“Lactobacilline preparee par la Societe le Ferment
Seu! Fourmsseur du Professor Me&hnikoff,” with-
out which none are genuine. Lactobacilline is sold
in boxes containing eight cylinders of Tablets—price,
s ?’, ■ •T' a ?. d c i ln be ordered through any chemist, or
obtained direct from the DepSt Societe le-Ferment,
Australasia Chambers, 406-H Queen St., Brisbane or
Branches: Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt St.,..Sydney •
Safe Deposit Busings, Queen St., MelbourneEller-
shaws Buildings, Cliff St., Fremantle; Smeeto’n’s
Buildings, Queen St., Auckland; from where all
information can be obtained.
SELS
AROMATIQUES
pour le bain.
J 3
Pn
The clear and healthy complexion of
youth and a sense of radiant freshness
and comfort is produced and maintained
i ■ ui_ use an h washing water
wln;h has been scientifically "softened”
q ixritVi f V-»
with the
MORN?
: bath salts $$
lingering fraCTance*"* 11 ‘ deli Cate ““
.Issued in exquisite MORNY odours-
Chammade ” bottles 5/6 & 18/fi " June
®° Bea .. v La Valse" " Vioiette-Morny ”
and - Yesiia 4/- & 10/0; ‘R ose .
Verveme 1 8/- & 7/-. O Q
An aura of iraSt ire,l,,'io's
.woman whose Bath-room Ritual is ministeredto ,
hy the famous hou-e of MORNY of 2ui Reaent 1
i Street. London, W. ’ Jtegent
THE MORNY FINE BATH AND PERFUME
PRODUCTS are retailed in Sydney bv-
WASHINGTON H. SOUL, 160 Pitt Street
PATTINSON & CO., 427 George, Street
FARMER & CO., 221-9 Pitt Street
CIVIL SERVICE CO-OPERATIVE STORES OF
NEW SOUTH WALES LTD., 152-4 Pitt St.
H. A. ROSE & CO,, Chemists, 149 King Street.
Wholesale Agents only: DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES
LIMITED, 82 Pitt Street; Sydney.
OBTAINABLE IN MELBOURNE AT ALL
HIGH-CLASS DEPARTMENT STORES
HE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. -Trice 6d.
T
CALIFORNIA
Corrugated Culverts.
MADE ONLY OF PUREST IRON.
i _P° no * any more with concrete or wooden culverts; concrete
culverts crack and require skill to instal; wooden culverts mar rot or be
burned out.
mi
■
Mb
_ ™ CALIFORNIA CORRUGATED CULVERT is easily fixed, carries
any load, combines all the requisites of permanent work, and gives you
greater confidence the more you use it.
TRY ONE, any size, 12in. to 84in. dia. It will not cost you much.
Sole Agents :
GIBSON, BATTLE & GO. Ltd.
535 Kent Street, Sydney. 486 Collins Street, Melbourne
gf
IN Bostock Shoes the feet alwa3 - s feel beauti-
fully light and comfortable; and the wearer
is ready for a garden party or any smart
function. So perfect are their fitting properties
that the shoes positively feel as though they
have been made specially. Every time they are
worn the wearer experiences a sense of satisfac-
tion, wonderfully like that enjoyed in a smart
Parisian gown; and this feeling is intensified by
knowing that the shoes are exclusive in style and
exquisitely finished.
Bostocks are the cream of imported shoes.
Special shipments have recently arrived at the
leading stores, and ladies should call before the
choicest styles are sold.
805
Style 580
ƒgdgfd
fgd
■Texend
BRACES
For Men who know
Quality , Comiortj Style
At first class shops ,
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing .
THE PERMANENT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED,
trustee company
17 O'Connell St.,
SYDNEY.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act a*
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
estates, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY,
lull Particulars on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
DR. J, COLLIS BROWNE’S
Tho Original anti Only Ccnuinm
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLO BY all;
CHEMISTS,
Prlctt In
England—
St*
. 2/9 A 4/b. Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectual! y
cuts short all
attacks at
SPASMS and COLIC.
v 'the Best Medicine for
•COUCHS, COLDS, ABTHMA, and in
*!>• oough of BRONCHITIB and
CONSUMPTION.
Act* like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MSS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Barginot: A man cursed with hand-writ-
ing (is it handwriting, or do you do it with your
ear?) like yours should be led firmly to a type-
writer .... Yass : Bah !.... Stepmother: It has been
suggested that the man who sells watered milk should
be proceeded against for divorce with the pump as
co-respondent. The case being proved he would, of
course, be separated from his milk-can for life....
J. McK. (V.): Getting very tired of “Billy’s Bloom-
ing Bust.” Would you mind keeping it away from
this office^... .Axe: Let the chips fly here: —•
A SLEEpER-CUTTER’S DREAM OF PARADISE.
Where the timber is tall and straight and free
With never a stone within throw
Where the shining blade sinks up to the eye
Each time you strike a blow.
Where the company’s boss has a kindly heart
And lets you roam at will
Through, .the ..maiden bush where the timber’s soft
Far atvay from the sound of the mill.
Where the inspector slings you the hammer to
brand
Then sits in the shade to smoke
And tells you to keep the tally correct
While he does the Government stroke.
Where the forest ranger’s a decent chap
And not like some I know,
Who would hound a man from the Cape to the
Gulf
Their authority to show.
Where the spalls fly free from the broadaxe
And the timber cuts like cheese.
Where there’s hundreds of thousands of acres
And 'millions and millions of trees.
I want no mansion or motor-car
I want no halo or wings
Just a six by eight on the sunny side
Close by where the broadaxe rings.
.... M.B.H.: Weak, watery verse-goods. .. .J.B.H.:
No. . . .P S.: It isn’t a poem, so it must be something
® lse ■ • ■ • G G.T.: Next time you are tempted to rhyme,
don t fall. Arthur H.: Your poem, “Beware of the
Ugly Mugs, is not for print. Tennyson or some-
body wrjrte something like it.'.. .E.A.S. (Tasmania):
/Sv-J 0 the leadin £ humorous paper in Tasmania.
(F.b. —You can decide for yourself which is the
leading humorous paper.) Stale M.: Poem hurries
along,with great difficulty, occasionally tripping over
If," 111 ™ and dropping a parcel or two
William*Shake: We’ll fly it here:—
RUINED BY AN AERONAUT.
The Daughter was she of a presbyterian priest
& her Father was strict as only a Wowser can be!
bhe had 'never spoken to a man and was the least
bit anxious her future husband to see—■
One day S he wandered in the rect’ry Garden
5 Lot-there came aloft a wondr’us Machine
Her astonishment and ignorance one must pardon
Never before had this Maid an Aeroplane seen!
the .Stranger alit in an adjoining Meadow and
Seeing the fair Maid all blushes so Coy
He quickly came to her side.and was soon unmanned
His Heart beating quick with tumultuous Joy !
lhe Innocent unknowing yielded to his Kiss
thinking this was indeed the height pf Bliss!
the Wind would soon change the false One knew,
bo with a farewell lass he mounted his aero and was
soon lost to view.
The Ruined Maiden watched him out of sight
: Uittle she knew her own sorry Plight!
irw "I 10 Saw put out his hand and CRASH ! !
that Aeroplane suddenly went SMASH ! ! !
Down down the false Lover: fell into the Sea,
6 a waiting Shark ate his false heart for Tea! ! ! ! ! !
(Goulburn): Good try, but it can’t go
Tom n D "fW J A M WTf (V ' ) w N K t enough cuss in it.
...lom D. (W.A.) . It would be a good story if it
n • some . T sod Plot and ended somewhere.
....Chunnga: Neither. The old man in the yarn
is a promising character, but you hardly do him
ca mint ‘ V,' i Swamp frog: Your - statement that “one
cannot help remarking the stupidity which people
heinL ay J"f dea J, ,ng with these subject's” strikes P U s P a s
being pipfoundly correct. Copy returned Tamia •
He is a prospector'away up North S.Q.: Not up"
np use .for it or anything
equaiiy vapid.... G.G.: No more of those gams
Gertie. Remember that through all the vicissitudes
wJ°n rn Kt S , career is still possible to preserve
traces, .however, faint, of that-pristine modestv but
perhaps this- is' enough for the present.... G W D •
Anecdotes no good'.to us A. A.: This nanpr dwt
know whether you are a believer in the Bible or not
wail’ Wai J’• and J° ur . brother’s wail, and the
ail of your friends, against compulsory militarv
the V, HnT pape pu °te a few words from
unward y alfVw re: ' ‘V° m 20 - vears old an”
upward, all that are able to go forth to war in
Isi-ae! (Numbers, chapter i. verse 3) ; “every male
from 20 years old and upward, all that were able to
go forth to war’’ (Numbers,’chapier i vlrse 20)!
And the remark that every man who was aeed 20
or more is “Able to go forth to war” is repefted in
verses 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, 32, 34, 36, 38, 40 42 and
46. Apparently the Lord regarded every man aged
20 or more as a soldier. .But He alwavs sneniwi
e man of “20 years old and upward” as the soldier.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CURRESI’ON DENTS.
inif lnd u ) m t u 9, h demand for stomach-ache draw-
ings. Bakers strike effort misses. ... H H • Your
&d £ U 1 iS *$? aboriginal at present.
Ronald S.. If you ,will agree to come and take it
away without asking what we think, we will agree
not to-harm you/with our feet. S
“Vic”: Empire Day is doomed. Year by
year it must sink in importance. Why?
Because its celebration amounts, in point of
fact, to a form of Disloyalty; and that is
an intolerable thought to the sort of people
who are struggling to keep it going. Meath
seized on the death of Victoria to
urge that May 24 should be Empire Day for
ever. He got a little support at the time
from those who still had ringing in their
ears the conventional gag of the period about
Victoria being an amazing character. Then
she began to appear in a reasonable light.
The end had begun. King Edward and King
George have both been hostile to Meath’s
movement, which is chiefly the reason why
Asquith has refused to countenance Empire
Day m Britain. Nobody believes quite so
nrmly as a King in the principle of “The
Kmg is dead, long live the King.” Mon-
tn e - xtrav^ antl y laudatory
Fmnfr. n ° • their Mediate predecessors.
P y is P. e J cu . llarl y obnoxious to King
orge- because it is so nearly in front of
iL5 irth i day - ,? f Bruce Smith and the rest
could only realise that they are simply irri-
rf ln F g , th P r beloved Sovereign by keeping
do«iP 0C f 1Sh old .institution alive, they wSuld
desist from their labors and let Empire Dnv
pass peacefully out. empire Day


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE: CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
Harry Lauder
Melodies
sound best on
#
CRACKAJACK
Mouth Organs
They ARE the Top Notchers.
They ARE made of the Best
Material Obtainable.
. They ARE the Best.
Made in Six Styles.
PROFESSIONAL 3/- DOUBLE 1/-
SENIOR 2/- BOSS CRACKER J/.
JUNIOR I/O-'CADET -/«
' OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
SEND FOR FREE BOOKLET, No. 7.
gfd
Silver=Toned .
MELBA
Accordeons
Are unsurpassed
for their beau-
tiful quality of
tone, obtained by
the use of a
superior quality
of metal in the
reeds.
For Picnics,
Dances,
Accompaniments
PRICES.
7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 17/6 to 42/-
WRITE FOR OUR NEW CATALOG.
SOLE WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Melbourne, Bendigo, Adelaide, Geelong.
BUNYJP FOREST
I\EVII I SAVES POUNDS
DLIIL ! While CLEARING.
You must dear 50111 land to make money.
Prosperity follows the plough. Big trees,
huge •boulders, ugly stumps all give way to
the “BUNYIP”';FOREST DEVIL, that roots
them out as though they were weeds. Simple
to work, economical and durable. Write: —•
John Cooper § Sons,
287-9 Elizibeth St., Melbourne, Victoria.
gfd
COOKE’S ;
PATENT
REVERSIBLE
LEVEL
Specially designed with two objects in view:
first, to afford an easy, efficient, and at all
times means., of adjusting the line of
collinmtion of the telescope to perfect perpen-
dicularity |o the vertical axis of the instrument;
and, secondly “to obtain a form of construction
in wttipli'-elegancy and great compactness are
attained'Vand strength and rigidity secured.
Pamphlet describing construction, and on the
adjustment of above on application.
A. P. GREENFIELD & CO. LTD ,
189 Street, Brisbane,
Sole Australian Agents.
When something is wanted
to put on a burn or scald,
to heal a cut, scratch,
or skin sore, apply
Calvert’s
Carbolic Ointment
It soon relieves the soreness and pro-
motes a qui k £ure, while for a skin
wound especially its antiseptic virtue is
important. On other occasions also
it is useful—for insect bites or stings,
fo ,«czema, ringworm, and skin ail-
ments generally—whenever a healing
antiseptic ointment is needed.
' X ocal S tores and Chemists sell it.
Made.by l' & Go., Manchester, Eng.
The evinrude
Detachable Rowboat Motor
SIZES:
1% hp.
2 hp.
3J4 hp.
Attached to the stern, the Evinrude
/~\ Motor makes your rowboat self-
propelling — an efficient motor-boat
with a speed of 8 miles an hour.
Its weight, 50 lbs., permits easy
transportation.
Nine Governments use the
Evinrude Motor on rivers
and seas the world over.
Its adaptability and dura-
bility have appealed to
25,000 users.
Driven by Petrol (gasoline) at low
up-keep cost. Steered by the Propeller
—no rudder required, but supplied if de-
sired. Reversible; battery ignition or Magneto,
and automatic lubrication. Fully guaranteed.
MELCHIOR, ARMSTRONG 8 DESSAU,
Dept. D=l2, 116 Broad Street, New York, U.S.A.
Write for Booklet illustrating and explaining the many uses of
this wonderful little motor, to the
Controlling Representative for Australasia and New Zea-
land, H. A. Goddard, Dept. U-1!J, 88 Queen Street. Mel-
bourne; Dept. D-12, 101 Vickery’s Chambers, Pitt Street,
Sydney; Dept. D-12, 3 Australasia Chambers, Queen Street,
Brisbane. Local Agents: H. Kennedy, Dept. D-12, Broome,
W.A.; C. J. Ellershaw & Co., Dept. D-12, Perth, W.A.
gdf
Scientific Instruments
For Every Trade, Industry and Profession.
Hydrometers, for testing every liquid.
ƒgdgfd
Do you use Glass Instruments in your
Calling? We manufacture and repair
them, and guarantee their perfect
accuracy.
If you wish special Instruments made
for any purpose, tell us your needs
and we will quote you for the neces-
sary design.
Our Booklet, illustrating Scientific
Glassware of every kind, is free. Shall
we send you a copy? It costs you
nothing, and will open your eyes to
the extent of our activities.
Dairy Factory Glassware and Testing
Apparatus a Specialty.
WILSON, NAFIS 8 CO. LTD.,
Wharf Street, BRISBANE, Q'LAND.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF?
YOU begin to
* look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyer’s
ov
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
FOR PIPE OF ALL KINDS
GOME TO THE MANUFACTURER
I
We are Manufacturers of Pipe for every purpose, as well as
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswork. For these kind of
Goods we offer you the Most Reliable Quality, at Lowest
Quotations.
WROUGHT IRON PIPE AND FITTINGS.
MALLEABLE WASTE PIPE AND FITTINGS.
LEAD, COMPO., TIN, OR GALVANISED
PIPE.
STEAM PIPE, SHEET LEAD, BRASS AND
LEAD TRAPS.
ENGINEERS’ & PLUMBERS’ BRASS WORK.
The Special House for Engineers’ and Plumbers’ Tools; also,
Tools of all Trades.
Jf unable to call, remember that your letters will be
attended to with great care.
JOHN BANKS 8 SON
PROPRIETARY LTD.
324 PITT ST., near Liverpool St., STDNEY.
A BARGAIN IN BIOSCOPES
Why Not Make Money at Pictures?
Beard’s Latest
Improved Bioscope
Complete with Tank and Basket Limelight Jet, Retort Saturator and all
Accessories, ready for immediate showing, for
£4O CASH
USUALLY V
£6O )
REMEMBER—This is a Complete Picture Plant
and can be used in a Hall ©r in the Home. ■'We have only fom of these
outfits, and they are sure to go quickly. Inclusive with the puic asing
of these outfits we will teach you operating" free, personally or by post.
JERDAN’S,
CINEMATOGRAPH
EXPERTS,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
fgd
ABBEY
SHOES
ARE
not cheap, nor are they dear, but,
judged by the service they give,
represent the best return you can
get for your money.
Above we illustrate our latest
model, a choice Patent Oxford Bal.,
with Dull Calf Tops 32/6
In Highest-grade Tan Willow
Calf 30/-
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a copy of our Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Queensland Park Saddle
,A splendid saddle for general use. Made on best
English tree, with Plated Bars and Double Gullet,
and is built of best material throughout.
fgd
This saddle has hogskin seat and pads, extra loner
flaps, Victoria panel, deep, sweepy seat, nickel-plated
4-bar irons, folded girth, £3/19/6 Complete, add
exchange. Mention The Bulletin whop ordering.
A surcingle will be given free. This saddle is for-
warded freight paid to any railway station pr port,
N.S.W., or any port Queensland. Obtained from
J. P. TALTY, Manufacturer, 388 SUSSEX
STREET, SYDNEY.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company limited
Wk Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A-
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all pans of the world.
PAGES FOR EVERY WOMAN is a fea-
ture of Tiie Lone llanp no woman in
city or country should miss.


Situation Wanted.'
Northern Territory or South Sea.
ELL exper. Gent., used to trop. climate and life,
wishes again position in those districts. Most
successful organiser and administrator, finest refer-
ences. For particulars please write to “TROPIC,’
G.P.'CT.,"Box *n745, Sydney. » r
Amusements.
R
ICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SIDNEY
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSU.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY AT 2.30.
ADA REEVE.
ADA REEVE.
ADA REEVE.
The Greatest Comedienne in the World.
Supported by Full Company of World’s Star Artists.
Box,Plan: THEATRE & NICHOLSON’S.
TIVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McJNTOSH.
. i W. C. FIELDS, the Silent Humorist.
V THE ELLIOTT SAVONAS,
“In their Palace of Orpheus.”
“THE TWO BOBS,” a Rag or two, a Song or two,
a Laugh or two, by a Bob or two.
TIIE GILLS, Star Tangoists.
ADDLE LEIGH. FARR & FARLAND.
THE SIX OAJIERONS, in ,a Novelty Act, “At the
Carnival.”.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES —45., 35., 25., Is.
ARTISTS APPEARING AT
TIVOLI TIIEA T R E, ADELAIDE
1 THIS WEEK.
SAM STERN, “An Entertainer,” that’s all.
TUCKER, the Singing Violinist.
THE CRF/OS. WINIFRED WARD.
THE FOUR VAGABONDS. THE SHENTONS.
ROYAL QUARTETTE. JACK.SHIELDS.
VIVATE & VIVANTI, TWO PIIIDLINERS.
T 1 V O Li I THEA T It E, PER T H.
*- HARRY RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRICS.
.‘Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
DOLORES VAtLECITA’S Group of Indian Leopards.
GOLDEN .ATIILONES, in Postures and Plastiques.
DATTNTON-SHAW, Troupe of Cyclists.
THE DARES. GABRIELLE HOPE.
FREDO BROS. ALEC BLACK.
BIOSCOPE.
PRICES: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-, NO EXTRA FEES.
URR MAJES T V ’ S, ',S VDN E Y.
1 1 Direction .7. C. WILLIAMSON! Ltd.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.45.
J, C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., have much pleasure in
presenting their STUPENDOUS PANTOMIME
EXTRAVAGANZA, which this year is based upon the
attractive story of
THE FORTY THIEVES.
Written by Frank Dix. Music by Andrew MacCunn.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
A I> ELI* II 1 TIIEA T It IS. SYI)N K Y.
M Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY. LTD.
COMMENCING THIS EVENING, MAY 21.
Return Season of GEORGE. WILLOUGHBY’S POPU-
LAR DRAMATIC COMBINATION, in the Original
Play of London Life,
THE BEGGAR GIRL’S WEDDTNG.
By WALTER MELVILLE.
Popular Prices: 4/-, 8/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Nicholson’s.
E> A I, A C K T II E A T It IC, S Y I) N K Y.
■ Direction ALLEN DOONE.
EVERY EVENING.
ALLEN DOONE.
presents, for the first time in Australia, the Comedy
Drama, in four acts, by Langdon McCormick,
THE BURGLAR AND THE LADY.
The Firmest . Detective Drama ever seen in Sydney.
Box Plan at-Paling’s. Day Sales, White Rose.
ATIONAL AMPHITHEATRE, SYDNEY.
Governing Director: BEN .J. FULLER.
FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE CIRCUIT.
N
EVERY NIGHT, AT 8.
FOSTER, LA MONT & FOSTER.
MITCHELL & LIGHTNOR. STRAUB SISTERS.
CARPOS BROTHERS. LYONS &.CULLUM.
FIVE MUSICAL LASSIES.
MAHONEY BROTHERS & DAISY.
CARLO & MAIE TRIO.
PRICES as usual. Plan at Theatre.
X II E LITT J, E THEA Tlt It)
1 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10 SHARP.
MR. HUGH BUCKLER and MISS VIOLET PAGET
PRESENT
FANNY’S FIRST PLAY.
BOX PLAN, PALING’S; DAY SALE, WHITE ROSE,
PITT STREET.
Prices —65., 45., 25., Is.
“Perfection —thy name, is Borwick.”—The World.
CELEBRITIES DIRECTION.
Manager CARLYLE SMYTH E.
Concordia halt, Sydney.
COMMENCING MONDAY, JUNE 1.
Return Season of the Greatest of All English Pianists,
LEONARD BORWICK.
“A star of the first magnitude ; the jpoet pianist.”
—Neuestf. Nachricten, Munich.
■T. SHAW STANLEY, Representative.
BOX PLANS OPEN AT PALING’S MONDAY NEXT.
MPEKIAL SALON DE LUXE.
Direction: BENDRODT & IRVING.
A FEATURE BALL.
TUESDAY, JUNE 2!
8.30 to 1.30.
A NIGHT IN JAPAN.
I
Full Particulars Daily Papers.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
X PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES
1 In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL. EMPRESS,
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 pm
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GItEATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
JH ~E OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL'PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
- ‘iRKST OP ALL"
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
Plans at Nicholson’s CNo Extra Fee).
Handy Cooker & Warmer
fgd
Just the thin* for an Early
Breakfast or a Late Supper.
ho Danger, no troubled-no noise,
no smell. Boilinu water in two
minutes. Soon warm a chiliy
room. Pour in a little spirit
an-' pas is produced with greater
hr at than any similar store. Gat
qniie tree, thus explosion impos-
sible. Helivered -anywhere for
on x 2s. 9d. TIIE UMON CO.,
299 Elizabeth bt., Melbourne.
Amusements.
g I* K NCJS It’S LVCE U M, SYI>N E Y.
THE WORLD’S "BEST PICTURES.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE—WEDNESDAY, AT 2.30.
A GREAT PROGRAMME, consisting of TOPICAL,
DRAMATIC, SCENIC and COMEDY SUBJECTS.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* Sole Lessee and Manager: William Andkrson.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 23.
Reappearance<'ofc.William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic
Organisation in
THE FACE AT THE WINDOW.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
|_J ER .MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
LAST NIGHTS,
in Melbourne of the Popular
REVUE,
COME OVIiR HERE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 65.. 45.. 2s. and Is,
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd..
EVERY EVENING A.T 8.10...
Reappearance of FRED NIBLO and JOSEPHINE
COHAN, in
NliViiit SAY DIE.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; Gallery, 2/-■ Rian at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S- THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
1 Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
Managing Director: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
First Production in Australia of the charming
American Play,
THE ROSARY.
Prices: 5/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-, Plan at Pianola,
g I J O C THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE CIRCUIT.
CUNNINGHAM & ROSE, Travesty Stars.
CAPT. BRUNSWICK & CO., in “The Troubles of
a Tenderfoot.”
MANTELL’S MARIONETTES.
TROUT AND HIS MERMAID.
THE FRANCO MIDGETS.
DELEVALE AND GILBERT.
POPULAR PRICES.
Q L Y M P I A. OLYMPIA.
w L Y M I> I A. MELBOURNE.
I (Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE ’TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT' AT 8.
Amusements.
J . & N . T A I T
announce the
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND TOUR OF
HARRY LAUDER.
«*
Sydney, commencing MAY 27.
Brisbane, commencing JULY 6.
Auckland, commencing JULY 20.
Wellington, commencing JULY 27.
Christchurch, commencing AUGUST 3.
Dunedin, commencing AUGUST 19.
Harry Lauder in Melbourne has achieved the most
remarkable triumph in' the amusement history of
Australia. For four weeks the. Princess's Theatre has
been crowded to its utmost capacity.'
|y| ELBOI’R.NI) Ut A C I A It I C AI.
ICE-SKA TIN Gr.
AFTERNOONS AT 3.
EVENINGS AT 7.45.
\At K S T’S PALACE, MELBOCKNE.
THE BEST WEST’S PTCT ORES THE best
OF ALL LIMITED. OF ALL
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. Wkst.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in tiif. World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen
at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
BIIiCH & C A R It O L I,
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
Freedom, Ease $ Comfort
The ...
WELMAR
Shirt
Pat. 1274
24/5/’ll. .
Stocked by
Leading
Mercers and
Outfitters.
Manufactured by
Welch, Margetson 8 Co.
Pty. Ltd.
<7
fgd
POWER
The fact that the Sydney Municipal Council
has placed with the Australian Metal Company
Ltd., Sydney, an order for a duplicate 5000-
kw. A.E.O. Turbo Generator Set. as a result of
tests and operation of the plant just installed,
speaks for itself
A
E
G
31,000 KW.
A.E.G. TURBO GENERATORS
ON ORDER and IN OPERATION IN AUSTRALIA.
Make Your
Own Records
Secure an Edison Home Record-Making- Outfit
and you will be able to get a clear, life-like
record of the voice or music of yourself and
your friends. The Outfit comprises a new
Edison 4 .minute Recorder, 3 Blank Records,
each one of which can be shaved from 50 to
75 times before being discarded, and an
Edison Home Shaving Machine, by means of
which the blank can be given a new surface
after a Record has been made.
The price of this Outfit, complete, in Aus-
tralia is £2; in New Zealand, £2/12/6. Full
instructions for its use are included in a
booklet obtainable of any Edison dealer, or
direct from us. You should go to-day to your
dealer and have him demonstrate this home
record-making feature of the Edison Phono-
graph to you.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD.
(Wholesale only),
364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Parlors Quoits
I Splendid and Exciting Home Game
Strong and Oufably Built
Everybody likes Rope Quoits, but it is too rough and
noisy for the home, circle. This Clever Game ol Parlor
Quoits is just as interesting and everyone can play it,
young and old, with unfailing zest There is a post or
'peg upon which the rings are thrown, a goal or pit to
catch the rings, a rear fence to keep the rings on the
table, six metal rings and a mechanical pitcher, very
clever and strongly built, with which the rings can be
thrown with great precision when, once the knackris
acquired, but it needs some skilL and practice. Any
□umber of players can compete and there are two kinds
of games, both very exciting To make it quickly
known we will sell 100 sets at only Half«a-CrOWa
each, packed in a nice box with full directions, we pay
carriage The regular price will be 5/6. Send at once
or you may be disappointed Obtainable only from
The Union Co., 299 Elizabeth St.. Melbourne.
fgd
For YOU and ME
There is Nothing to Equal
Solomon
Solution
Its Soothing, Healing Powers have been
proved beyond a shadow of doubt.
Rheumatic Gout, Sciatica, Rheumatism,
Neuralgia, Sprains, Strains, etc,, all yield
to its irresistible potency. One jar will
convince you !
2/6 Jars obtainable from your Chemist or Store-
keepers; post free for 3/- from
SOLOMON COX & SON
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
IA N
In
morning
it is such an easy matter to get
your teeth ready to be seen,
when you use
Calvert's!
l-lbofh Powder
fgd
and of course, the same
thorough antiseptic cleansing
is just as necessary
l again at night.
Sol l by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by
F. C. CALVERT & CO.,
MANCHES ER,
Eng.


KEEPTO
SCALP CLEAN
uticura
SOAP
\ i
/<
With
CUTICURA
SOAP
Frequent shampoos with Cuticura
Soap, assisted when- necessary by
gentle anointings with Cuticura
Ointment, afford the purest, sweet-
est and most economical method
of freeing the scalp of infants and
children from minor eruptions,
itchings and scalings and of es-
tablishing permanent hair health.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold throughout
the world. A liberal sample of each, with 32-page
booklet on the care and treatment of the skin and
scalp, sent post-free. Address K. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
The Liver is the
Road to Health
If the liver is right the whole system Is
right. CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
will gently awaken your
sluggish, clogged-up liver
and cure constipation,
stomach trouble, in-
active bowels, loss
of appetite,
sick head-
ache and
dizziness.
Purely
vegetable.
You need them.
fgd
Carter's
Kittle
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The GENUINE must bear signature
fgd
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
age, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. 13.
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain ivill make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. B. ALLEN S (u.s.a.)
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suitable
for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 02
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss-
&
m
IL U 1
2
10
8 H-' 4
7 fc 5
9
8
BIG BEN
s
lei
is
He works 36 hours at a stretch
And overtime when needed. Any-
one can afford him, for he only costs
12/6 to buy, and nothing at all to
keep. Millions of homes have taken
advantage of this, and have employed
him to get the family up in the
morning.
Even if you have a preference
about waking up, he’s ready to get
you up your way. If you like to be
wakened gradually, he’ll ring little
short rings every other half-minnte
for ten minutes. If you’re a hard
sleeper and need a strong dose, he’ll
sing out with a long, vigorous, full
five-minute ring. Either way, you
can shut him off at any point.
20,000 jewellers are necessary to
take care of the demand he’s created
for himself. He’s made a World’s
Record as a success.
He’s invaluable on the farm,
because he not only helps you get
the hands out on time, but serves
as a first-class clock to tell the day-
time by.
He stands 7 inches tall, is triple
nickel-plated—has a vest of good im-
plement steel that keeps him hardy ;
large, bold figures and hands to tell
the time by in the dim light of
morning. He is as fit for the parlor
as the bedroom.
Big Ben is made in La Salle,
Illinois, U.S.A., by Westclox. His
price is 12/6, postage 1/- extra. If
you cannot find him in your town,
send a money order to his makers’
Australian office, Westclox, 63 Pitt
Street, Sydney. They will have
one mailed to you at once by the
nearest jeweller.
MF
SET
A HOME FOR
MELBOURNE GUESTS.
I
Corner Flinders Street
and Spencer Street,
MELBOURNE,
Sir Charles Hotham Hotel
l’he “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
CSWA
POWNTPEN.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only) :
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney
fgd
Hunyadi Janos s
For an adjustment of the system, to dispel Kidney Trouble, medical men
from time immemorial have advocated the use of watery purging. One of
the best of all such agents is Hunyadi Janos Natural Aperient Water.
It ensures a prompt, copious, painless and easy evacuation of the intestines.
Hunyadi Janos neither depresses the patient nor sets up a state of after-
constipation, two points of the Utmost importance in dealing with patients
suffering from kidney complaints, which sooner or later give rise to much
emaciation, anaemia, and general debility of body and mind.
The Famous NATURAL Aperient Water
The Inky Way.
Octogenarian R. S. Smythe, writing to the Book
Lover (Melb.), re the old Athenaeum weekly, stated
that, as a youngster, he had read proofs for the
Literary Gazette, edited by William Jerdan. Men-
tion of Jerdan’s name is an interesting reminder of
how the quality of English journalistic literature has
improved since the editor of the Literary Gaze ii e
was reckoned the first critic of his time. Jerdan’s
autobiography, published in the beginning of his old
age (he was 88 when he died in 1869) shows the
ready pen of the stodgy writer. It is one of the
most wearisome books of its kind ; duller even than
“The A’Becketts of Punch.’’ Nevertheless it testi-
fies in its letters from young Charles Dickens, Lytton
and other' literary lights of the early Victorian period,
to the supposed importance of Jerdan. lie was the
No 1 subject in the Maclise Portrait Gallery, which
said of him: “In those old days Jerdan was a power
in the Republic of Letters. Reputations were thought
to depend upon his nod ; he could make or unmake
the fortune of a book. But if the truth must be
told, he held his sceptre with a feeble grasp, and
made but a poor use of the power his position attorded
him. Thus he and his magazine went down, after a
connection which had endured for 34 years, before
the higher pretensions of the AthenjEUM when it
came under the able management of Charles Went-
wortli Dilke.” As soon as a fe,w really smart men
came into the business, Jerdan, the relic of England s
darkest age of pretentious journalism, was recognised
as a silly old duffer. But his former reputation was
worth something to him. Thackeray, Brougham,
Bulwer Lytton and a lot of other old acquaintances
interested themselves in the matter of a cash testi-
monial.
* * * *
A journalistic quick-change artist, William Robertson,
has possibly settled down at Broken Hill. He reports
that he has been on the staff of Hobart Mercury,
Launceston Examiner, Brisbane Telegraph, Perth
Sunday Times, and Adelaide Herald ; also of smaller
papers at Horsham and Kyneton (Vic.), Bunbury
(Westralia), Goulburn and Murrurundi (N.S.W.), to
say nothing of Dumfries (Scotland). Any odd time
he has filled up as secretary to various premiers.
Boards and Commissions in Brisbane. Within the fast
two years he has sampled Adelaide Mail and Barrier
Miner. When he has had a rest and has saved
up a bit he will probably start a Central Ameri-
can revolution. The world would be a dull place
but for persons like Robertson.
The Labor Gaily, which is to commence opera-
tions in Sydney in November, is to be named The
World. D. J. Gilbert, the editor, lias hitherto
been best known on the Tory side of the Inky Way.
He was for years on the staff of the D.T., then on
the Herald (leader writing for a time), and, finally,
The Land. So he goes into action fully equipped
with a knowledge of the enemy’s little ways.
“Bones on the Beach” was the champion evening
paper howl of last week. It flared triumphantly
above a brief five-line paragraph recording the finding
on a Sydney beach of the bones of a human hand
and forearm. For sheer sensationalism it would take
some beating; but here is an effort: •
“BONES IN THE BISHOP’S POCKET.
“To-day, while the Bishop of Blithertonwas marry-
ing a young couple, a protruding nail tore his
pocket and a human skull and about a hundied-
weight of bones poured out through the rent. The
bride and her two bridesmaids immediately screamed
and swooned. His Grace, who was greatly agitated,
was immediately arrested on a charge of insulting
behavior by the bridegroom, Senior-Constable Lynx ;
it is understood, however, that a more serious charge
is pending. (It will be remembered that, about two
years ago, the curate of St. Blithers mysteriously
disappeared and was never heard of again. The
Bishop of Blitherton was indefatigable in his search
for his missing subordinate, and subsequently married
his widow, who had been left in very poor circum-
stances. The police now think they have a clue
to the mystery.”
Died last month in Bombay a very notable Anglo-
Indian paper, the Bombay Gazette. The Gazette
was a grown Inky Wayfarer when the S. M. Herald
was, metaphorically speaking, squalling on a blanket,
and the “Liberal party” it adores was living under
the hat of H. Parkes, deceased. The Gazette was
first published in 1791, a period when J. Bull was
shaking the pagoda tree to some purpose. It had
quite a strenuous career for the first 20 or 30 years
of its life, as its reptile contemporary —the Chron-
icle, founded in 1800 —had for editor a genuine
fire-eater, who was just as ready to “call his man
out” as he would have been to write his opponent’s
funeral notice. This worthy was a very pugnacious,
retired master-mariner, Captain Stocqueller, who
could “sling the lingo” with any trained journalist
who ever lived. He and the editor of the Gazette
fought a duel in 1819. The weapons were small
swords, and the Ancient Mariner spitted the unhappy
Gazette man through the left shoulder before honor
was satisfied. Stocqueller left Bombay after that ;
but he didn’t go out of the business —not much!
He went overland to Calcutta —no mean feat in
those days—and started a paper called John Bull in
the East, which afterwards became the leading
Indian journal, and is now the Calcutta English-
man. Meantime, the Gazette had a glorious quarrel
with the Government of the Province, and, as a
result, the editor —Barnes —was deported to England
for his “violent and unseemly writings against his
Excellency.” (N.B. —This deporting business is by
no means a new thing, even within the British
Empire, and the Botha Government of South Africa
trotted along a well-trodden track of precedent.)
After this episode, which caused a lot of feeling in
Hupper Suckles, the paper sailed along for 12 years
under the name of the Gentleman’s Gazette —a
dignified reproof to all and sundry. It implied that
people who didn’t buy it were blokes or worse. A
Scotsman named Maclean was the real founder of the
power and wealth of the old paper, which in the
60’s and 70’s of the last century was easily the
most prominent publication in Asia. Even when its
palmy days were over it seemed, a flourishing con-
cern, and no little surprise arose when the proprie-
tors’ decided to cease publication. The thing had
apparently become a mere shell, with pomp outside
and hunger within. A new paper is talked of to
take its place, but, alas! who will ever be able to
give it the noble color and tradition of its prede-
cessor ?
ABOUT THE SUN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sun is up !
And so am I;
But I fell down.
Had I a cup
I’d drink it dry
My cares to drown.
I meant to write
A verse or two
About the day
Of joy and light.
Alas, I do
Not feel that way !
The blessed sun
Can, without doubt,
Be gay and bright;
All said and done.
It was not out
All yester-night.
It is not broke,
Like Jericho.
And quite worn out,
But I could choke;
And, yet, I know
No friend’s about.
Then, understand,
The sun’s not cursed
By having cause
To meet a band
Of grim and thirst-
Y creditors.
I settled down
To write a verse
About the sun ;
Though fate may frown,
And duns may curse,
It must be done.
“Across tlie sky
Its flaming wheels
Their bright course run” —
But, hang it, I
Feel down at heels —■
Oh, burn the sun!
N.S.W.
HAMER.


“THE CERT” D.8.8.L. GUN 1.2-gauge, top lever 30in. steel
extension rib, rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-em
grip, walnut stock; weight about 71b.
Same Gun as above, but with Greener cross bolt
Postage on one Ggn, 2/9 N.S.W. ; 5/2 Inter-State.
barrels.
1. pistol
• .JBI/15/-
•• • J62/5/-
Harrington 8 Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12-g a u ge, top
action, solid case
hardened locks,
decarbonised steel barrel, 80in. pistol grip, walnut stock, weight
about 6ilb. Gun can be taken apart, same as an ordinary Double
Barrel Gun. Auto-Ejector, 25/-; Non-Ejector, 22/0
Posta-re— 2/GN.S.YV. ;
4/8 Inter-State.
“The Continental,” 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Collector Gun
410 bore, finest Siemen’s steel barrel, side lever action, solid or skeleton, walnut
hardened locks, 24in. barrel, length over all 38gin.. weight about 41b. A splendid
gun for use in Orchards. Postage—ls. 9d. N.S.W., 3s. 2d. Inter-State.
stock, cas
35/-
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
Head Depot: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.*W.
City Depot: 119 King Street, Sydney ; and at Hunter Street, Newcastle.
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition,
etc. Post Free
Anywhere.
GUNS that give Satisfaction.
The BEST and CHEAPEST HOUSE
for all kinds of
GON REPAIR WORK.
National Arms Co.’s 12- or 16-Gauge D.8.8.L. Gun,
reinforced breech top lever, full rebounding, bar interchangeable locks, Greener cross
ooit, extension rib, left full, right modified choke, 30in. special steel barrels, pistol grip,
walnut stock, engraved, weight of 12-gauge about Gflb. to 71b.,
of lb-gauge 6£lb. to 641 b.
DELIVERED,
72/6
' e can supply this Gun in at /4/- extra.
tinn« ‘^°* e en | s for the above Gun, which has been made to our own specifica-
tions, ana therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
The “Continental” Combined Double
Barrel Shot Gun and Rifle,
30in. Krupp Steel Barrels, bar locks, cross bolt, the gun barrel full choke 12-
gauge shot, 32 Winchester Rifle calibre, weight about 7£lb.
CARRIAGE PAID.
£6 10s.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
.i-lv: - ' * •
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
I " HWI11 111 I WI HI U. 1 IT" ' WMIIiawmBKWHMBWMIMEBEgMagaMIB.iimiJMMMBaWBBBiMBKWaMgMiIIiii 111 II L |.iliJ
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (O O) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated "Waters and Cordials.
fS /T- PATRIOTISM
_ Yoob '
AIM; c "
Then have aJHOT
at smoking
Referee
ah
u <'
The Australian Tobacco.,
m
PS
1
±
T
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd.,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. MrcK.an?
England, 6d. How to Gkt Rich, Is posted. Du. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston's Card Tricks, 'ls 2d. All Zola's,
including Nana, Is Gd each, posted. Educating the
Horse, is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyhook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.. Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is fid. How to
Make Love, Is post. free. Fowler’s Science of Life
lOk Gd. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
38 Gd. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is id.
Equality, !)d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is Gd. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, os. Not Guilty (Blatcn-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, !)d and 1., od.
God and My Neighbor, Gd. Britain for the
British, Gd. Ilow to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
's 3d. Theory of Value, ls6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to M ake Sweets. Jams and Syrups. Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prop. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s (id. Australian. Pastrycook’s Guide, is Gd.
w
NOJV|E CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “TO, AIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions chat occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
prBOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-^
GIPSY FORTUNE • TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, 1< UIURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gam hi, nits’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is: post Is 3d. Camille. Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Games), is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River. 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Tiik White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for ail diseases, is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. Is: post
Is Id. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s" Gd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping. 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wan nan's Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron ok Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Like in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. §a£~Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Any where for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage Is
posted. New Thicks with Caros, is. Sappho, genuine
Is. Old Busu Songs, Is 3d Dost. Or. Milford’s Mid’
wipe’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam 1.. Gordon’s Poems, complete"
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions op the
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court op England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievassk’s Advice to a
Wipe, 3s (id posted. Wonderpul Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarp. Macfadden's Works, all at 5s posred
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar.
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook
ls2d posted. Fruits op Philosophy, is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1000 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com.’
piete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, bv P a i„ e
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAV.’


Rexona —the Best
Remedy for Piles.
'H/Am
MRS. LEMP '
(from a photo.).
“For some time in-
ternal bleeding piles
caused me much suf-
fering,” writes Mrs.
W. Lemp, IG4 Yarrow
Street, Invercargill,
N.Z. “The irritation
was unbearable. 1
could not lie, walk or
sit on account of the
pain and uncomfort-
able feeling. I tried
many remedies, all
with no success.
Nothing did me any
good. Rexona Oint-
ment was recom-
mended to me, and the
first two or three ap-
plications of this
splendid balm acted
like magic. After
using Rexona Ointment
for only a short time,
I was freed from my
terrible affliction and
completely cured. It
is well called “The
Rapid Healer.”
Rexona—the Family Friend.
V*
Women who suffer from Piles are especially unfortunate, in that they cannot
talk about their complaint. They must suffer in silence. To all such Rexona comes
as a great blessing, for it is easily obtained, easily applied, and the result is always
gratifying. The distressing symptoms quickly subside, and mind and body both feel
relief from the constant strain almost after the first application. In this Ointment
are combined juices and essences in an entirely new a;ad unique manner, forming a
remedy justly celebrated as a Rapid Healer. Rexona is a remedy which is especially
valuable in the treatment of Piles. Those who try it will not be disappointed.
Rexona is sold everywhere at 1/6, or in pots holding four times the quantity, for 3/-
o
0
o
THE RAPID HEALER
Play
Free
Wa
i
m
*'
«e»ri
m
&.V
Mosf Famous Sliding Cord 1
Brace in the World
Sold where
@
£3
Get the Genuine
DUPLEX
Mast be Stamped
on Buckle.
21-X
Guaranteed*
If you want the very best
FLANNELETTE
the Old Country F Produces
»uy HORROCKSES'
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON SEL 1 fEDGE
and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all Drapers md Storekeepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GKEAT EXHIBITIONS. 1
ON THE HOP!
A sn perb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
Inin dred of "Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bui iT.ETiN size. Price, 21s.
The Track that Starts for
Home.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
r|! HERE’S a donkey-engine rattlin’ by
ther ole West India Dockses,
-™— And ther creak o’ block-and-tackle
sets me heart a-pQundln’ hard;
Blessed God ! Git orf yer Doorstep, and ex-
pound yer equinoxes—
Eor I’m leavin’ grey old London, with its
paupers packed in boxes,
Whilst ther everlastin’ traffic roars and hums
by Palace yard !
1 in a-leavin’ brown old London, which I
hates, Lord, like Gomorrer —
Bull can keep his bloomin’ Ilabbey and St.
Paulses’ flamin’ dome ;
Eor we’re leavin’ London River —Hoo! we’re
trimmin’ tires ter-morrer,
So goo’ bye, and dash yer, London, with yer
streets o’ age and sorrer —
’Cos we’re orf at last ter Sydney, on ther
Track that Starts for Home!
There’s a shinin’ Sea-Gate waitin’ —how me
weepin’ Adam’s apple
Keeps a-climbin’ up me gizzard and a-stop-
pin’ of me speech;
Keep yer stinkin’ Port o’ London and yer
frowsy ole Whitechapel—
There’s a Harbor ’way down under where
I’ll laugh and wet me thrapple
Whilst I sits and sings with Susan on ole
Manly’s blessed beach !
I ni Orsetralian? Yes, Orsetralian! and I’ve
mooched, Lord, through this city,
And I’ve seen where Samyule Johnson used
to fill his hatches’ comb;
Keep yer Chesshire cheese for Cockneys! for
I’m orf ter sit with Kitty
Where the blue Pacific tumbles on a shore
that’s white and gritty—
Anr ther cook sings in ther galley, on ther
Track that Starts for Home !
Half ther scum of dock-side Europe gapes
ter hear me shout and jingle,
"Cos ter-day I’ve hoofed it eastward down
ther ole Commercial Road ;
It’s a muddy, soup-like basin, where these
waters meet and mingle—-
But ther noise of pleasant cursin’ makes
me nerves just fairly tingle,
Since we’re orf from fragrant London, when
ther cargo’s slung and stowed !
Ain’t ther tramp ship all a tremble? Ain’t
her engines all a-quiver?
’Cos it’s early in ther mornin’ that her
screws’ll lift ther foam ;
Ain’t she anxious, like my Nell, now? Can’t
yer see her jump and shiver?
Lord, she hates this drab ole London, and
this haggard British river—
So she’s yearnin’ same as I am, for ther
Track that Starts for Home !
Yes, of course! Them slinkin’ too-rists sim-
ply dotes upon ther Ilabbey,
And they’ll crawl around St. Stephen’s and
they’ll snivel through St. Paul’s;
But it’s me for King and Pitt-street, where
I’ll hail a sportin’ cabby—
Keep yer London, corpse of London, with
its “down-and-outers” shabby—-
And we’ll take a look at Coogee, where the
bland Pacific sprawls !
Me and Jane, we’ll take a hansom, and ther
horse’s hoofs will clatter —
Or, maybe, we’ll own a taxi —Sis’ll wear
this shinin’ comb
What I’ve purcliised here in London, and
we’ll streak for Parrermatter—-
Blast ther rain ! Of course it had to —hear
ther freezin’ raindrops patter—
But we’ll laugh and sing ter-morrer, on ther
Track that Starts for Home !
Laughin’ Sydney! Smilin’ Sydney ! Can't I
see yer in ther mornin’
As we glugs with lazin’ screw-blades to-
wards yer Good Australian door ;
Can't I see yer ? Oh, God bless yer! Lon-
don’s only fit for scornin’ —•
So I wants ter see yer, Sydney—that’s ther
port that I was born in,
Where ther bells of ole St. Mary’s hits yer
heart-strings by the shore !
See ther big four-master, sailin’ —she’s an
ole wind-jammin’ party,
But her nose is laid for Sydney and she’s
orf once more ter roam ;
We’ll be passin’, sometime, somewhere —
cheerin’ loud and toilin’ hearty,
She’ll be walkin’ up ther Harbor whilst our
coal-consumin’ smarty
Gits ter sea once more for London —on ther
Track that Starts from Home!
Mister God! Git orf yer Doorstep by the
ole YYest India Dockses—
Leave yer Bull, and be Australian and we’ll
love yer long and hard ;
Hear ther creak o’ block-and-tackle—come !
expound yer equinoxes—
Ain’t yer leavin’ blasted London, where they
shut men’s souls in boxes
Whilst ther crazy city’s traffic roars and
hums by Palace Yard?
I'm a-leavin’ stuffy London, which I hates.
Lord, like Gomorrer—
And I’d rather see Ben Buckler’s than St.
Paulses’ flamin’ dome ;
Yes, I'm leavin' London River! Rot. yer
streets of stinkin’ sorrer—-
For the Lord is shiftin’ Southward, and
we’re trimmin’ fires ter-morrer—
S 'o f/oo'-hue and burn yer. London — here's
the Track that Starts for Home!
3V.S.W.
GRANT HERVEY.
The Double-bed Dialogues.
THE PERFUME OF GLADYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IF Gladys had not been addicted to the
use of that scent, our married happiness
would have been wrecked. In fact, it
was Gladys and her scent that saved us
from the divorce court—that railway station
for which so many happy honeymooners un-
wittingly take their tickets. Gladys is not
the name of my wife ; it is the front name
of a barmaid.
The thoughtless have perhaps wondered
why so often in divorce cases the co. is a
barmaid. The fact i.s that in modern life
if tin re weren’t any barmaids there wouldn’t
be any cos. For married life shuts the door
on the husband, and leaves all the nice un-
married girls outside. All the nice girls he
knew before he met his Babette drop out of
the bridegroom’s existence, with the noiseless
suddenness of a descending lift, the day after
the wedding. At the wedding he saw heaps
of girl, and vaguely wondered why they were
so eager to kiss him. They were really say-
ing farewell.
This was disconcerting, for he had got
accustomed to meeting nice girls at dances
and “evenings.” A bachelor has no possible
chance of avoiding the nice girls with which
kindly Providence, like a genial chaperone,
has comfortably filled this world. He gets
to know them quite well, to flirt with them
in the nice, non-committal way which nice
girls so thoroughly understand, and to kiss
them in a brotherly fashion on their sisterly
lips. And surrounded by this crowd of nice
accessible girls, the bachelor has neither
time nor inclination to philander with the
barmaid. Three kisses and one hug per
evening are enough for any serious and God-
fearing young man who has his way to make
in the world. And he hasn’t to pay for them,
except in kind. But with barmaids it is
more difficult. You’ve got to drink often
more than you care for; and there are cases
when it is necessary to provide jewellery or
even order an expensive private supper. But
the reputation of any nice girl would be
ruined if you presented her with a diamond
bracelet or took her to supper in a private
room. The nice girl knows that. The
pleasing custom is for her to provide the
supper. All the man has to do is to eat it
and sit out one dance with her.
But when he marries his Babette he has
not only to provide her supper but her
breakfast, lunch and dinner—though he is
allowed by the law to give her more than
three kisses a day and one hug. And the
nice, non-committal girls decide that their
kisses would be wasted on a married man—
and, really, those non-committal kisses are
wasted on him. And when he meets the
girls on the street he does not take them in
to afternoon tea. For he learns disquieting
things about them all. That is what his wife
is for.
I knew five nice, non-committal girls, with
the total allowance of 15 kisses and five hugs
per diem, whose characters have deteriorated
in the most shocking wav since I married.
Before marriage I, in my innocence, re-
garded them as quite pleasant girls. But from
what Babette told me, unwillingly, in confi-
dence—l had to drag the facts out of her —
they were really harpies in disguise. Every
one of them had the most horrible designs
on me. Their generous allowance of non-
committal kisses, to say nothing of their
quite unbunny-like hugs—were dangerous
snares. They were after me all the time.
Babette knew her sex. Those five girls had
behaved in a way that, from their non-com-
mittal kisses. I should not have thought
possible.
For instance, that time when I called, in
answer to a telephone ring, to spend the
evening with Violet and her sisters, and
found her in an alluring state of tearful dis-
may because her parents and her two sisters
had all gone out, leaving her lonely in the
drawing-room—that was nothing but a plot.
Violet had packed her parents and her sisters
off, just to get me alone. She got me alone;
for though she told me timidly to go away
and leave her in the deserted drawing-room
—though she was horribly afraid of burglars
—I insisted on staying. In fact, she agreed
with me to regard the situation as a great
adventure. I felt that, under the circum-
stances, a man’s honor precluded his ex-
ceeding the limit of three kisses and one hug;
but, probably through sheer nervousness
Violet seemed to lose count of her non-com-
mittal kisses, and the one hug lasted so long
that my left leg, on which she was sitting,
went to sleep. And when, to mv relief, a
weight was lifted from my heart, and my left
leg, by the return of the family for supper,
Violet’s mother called Violet away to see
about the coffee. And when her mother re-
turned she was almost snappy to me and
quite cattish to innocent Violet.
“Don’t you see, you stupid old dear,”
Babette explained, “that was all a put-up
job between Violet and her mother to get
you to propose?”
“But Violet!” I protested, “she has such
trustful eyes.”
“I know her mother.”
“Then,” I said, remembering, “that night
you asked me to come up to your place to
spend the evening with a few musical
friends, and you explained that all those you
had specially asked had been unable to turn
up, and you would have to entertain me
by yourself?”—
“I explained that,” said Babette hastily.
“Besides, you did propose.”
“Not that evening.”
“No, I’ve often wondered why you didn’t.
But. don't you see, you were in love with
me, and you weren’t with Violet. That
makes all the difference.”
“I see,” I said. “I don’t believe, now that I
know the depths of deception that lay be-
hind her trustful eyes, that I can really ever
be friends with Violet again.”
“Oh. no.” Babette generously cried. “You
mustn't cut her in the street —at least not
at first. Just let her see that you have
found her out. and gradually you will find
that she will see that she is not wanted.”
That is exactly what happened to my
friendship with Violet, and with the four
other nice, non-committal girls. But I con-
fess that after the first few months of
tumultuous married happiness I began to
miss—not exactly the five nice girls, but
the whole tribe of available girls. They had
been wiped out. And there was no one to
take their place. After marriage a man has
no opportunity to make the acquaintance of
nice, non-committal girl friends. Your wife
sees to that. She has, it is true, her own
girl friends; but even when they are nice,
you think too highly of your wife even to
pretend to flirt with them. And her friends
think too highly of your wife to permit you.
Every time I tried the invariable answer
was: —•
“But think of your wife!”
And one actually told Babette. Of course
Babette refused to believe her. It was only
(Conlinucd on nc.rt pnr/c.)


£.££ -Jk
i
Xxri
m
X
DOCTOR SAID OPERATION WAS
ABSOLUTELY NECESSARY.
Zam-Buk Completely Cured
AFTER OTHER TREATMENTS FAILED.
BEFORE he found Zam-Buk, Mr. F. Slatter
had suffered months of painful torture,
and used all sorts of remedies in his
efforts to find relief from his dreadful piles.
Telling how, when an operation seemed un-
avoidable, Zam-Buk effected a splendid com-
plete cure, Mrs. F. Slatter, who lives at Ford
Street, Allora, Q., said:—“Two years ago my
m
TSS,
m
m
v
'V
\
MR. F. SLATTER,
photographed, after his
cure by Zam-Buk.
husband suffered terrible agony from piles. He was unable to get about and
for six months was laid up in terrible pain. The doctor came and attended
to him and treated him with all sorts of medicines and ointments. When
he found this treatment failed, the doctor said an operation was absolutely
necessary, but my husband would not consent to this.
“His mother, who had had a very bad leg healed by Zam-Buk, per-
suaded him to try this balm. He acted on her advice and purchased a
supply. Zam-Buk proved both soothing and healing and gave him speedy
relief. He had only been using it a short time when all pain, irritation
and misery were ended, and the piles completely cured.”
Zam-Buk is excellent in cases of Cuts,
Bruises, Abrasions, Pimples, Poisoned
Wounds, Bad Bess, Ulcers, Piles, Eczema,
Scabs, Sores, Children’s Scalp Troubles,
Running: Sores, Pestering Sores, Swollen
Knees, Boils, Ringworm, Teething
Rashes, Sore Nipples, Barber's Rash, Raw
Chins, Baby’s Sore and Hot Patches,
Sore Paces, Sore Pips, Sore Throat, Chest
Pains, dialings. Stiff Neck, Sprains, Stiff-
ness, Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Chaps,
Chilblains, Cold Sores, Aches, and Pains,
and Injured conditions of the Skin
generally. Obtainable from all Chemists
and Stores at 1/6 and 3/6 per pot (3/6
size contains nearly 4 times 1/6), or post
free, direct from C. E. Fulford (Austral-
asia). Etd., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
%
'°^nv3 H
9 ONIHIOOS
A Remarkable Remedy.
Few medicines have met with more favor or accomplished more good than
Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy.
It has relieved more pain and suffering and saved the lives of more people
than any other preparation in use. One or two doses of it is enough to relieve
an ordinary attack of colic or diarrhoea. It has been used in many epidemics of
dysentery with perfect success.
It relieves bowel complaints in their most severe forms and is especially valu-
able for diarrhoea and summer complaint in children.
I am 44 Granny ” Chamberlain,
m
im
%
(CoPV?i(y* T t^
Everybody’s friend when they have
coughs and colds and their children
have croup and whooping cough.
Most everyone knows me. I have
been going from home to home for
nearly fifty years—always welcome
too, for I never fail in their hour of
need.
I have helped young mothers
whose babies were choking with
croup and been the comfort of par-
ents whose children tramp to school
through the wet winter weather.
Many a cold and attack of bronchitis
I have warded off and thousands I
have helped through the anxious
moments of whooping cough.
I have come to the aid of mothers
and fathers when they had colds and
influenza and have been a relief to
old folks suffering from bronchitis
and asthma.
I have had a most varied experience:
I go everywhere-—among the rich
and the poor, in the cities and the
back-blocks. Now don’t forget ‘‘ Granny > Cbamberlain! You
will see me often now for I am going to tell of my experience an
what can be done in your home with
na
■IIM
COUGH EEMEfcY
two months after the honeymoon, and there
is nothing so sacred as a young wife’s trust
in her husband. Naturally she could not
conceive it possible that I should seek femin-
ine distractions outside our home. The only
result of that girl’s treachery, or loyalty
it depends on the way you look at it was
that Babette discovered that she didn’t like
that girl—had never really liked her —and
wouldn’t ask her to the house again.
“Where there’s smoke there’s fire,” she
sagely remarked. “The mere fact that she
accused you of trying to flirt with her shows
me that she wanted you to; and because you
didn’t she said you did.”
There is nothing so convincing as a
woman’s logic. At least, it convinced me.
But after six months of married bliss I
found myself automatically cut off from all
possible flirtations. And I had rather got
into the habit of flirtation. I rather missed
my daily allowance of. kisses, even though
Babette exceeded it. Habits are terrible
things. Even marriage doesn’t change them.
There ought to be something about habits
—even harmless habits like mine—in the
marriage service. Both bride and bride-
groom should be compelled solemnly to re-
nounce all bachelor and maiden ways, and
immediately to acquire matrimonial ones.
The nice girls being thus counted out, all
that is left is the barmaid. A married man
can’t strike up an acquaintance with a single
girl without attracting remark; and he
doesn’t get the chance to know a girl whom
his wife doesn’t know where there is no
chance of attracting remark. Except, of
course, if he is in business and has a femin-
ine type-writer. I hadn’t that luck. And,
naturally, a man’s wife —at least before he
trains her —always knows where he goes
when he leaves his home. Even the remark
that you have to go back to the office in the
evening isn’t much good. For no really
nice girl would take the risk of going to a
man’s private office at night; and when I’m
working back at my office Babette rings up
every 15 minutes. And you can’t get the full
enjoyment out of a flirtation in your office
when you’re interrupted every quarter of
an hour.
So there is left only the barmaid. And
you can see a barmaid at any time during
office hours. She’s there —-rather like a wife,
always at home, always ready to see. you,
always with a welcome. And there is. no
chance of meeting any other girl—who might
possibly be a friend of your wife’s —in the
bar. And, even if you’re seen entering a bar,
you’ve always got a good excuse.
Thus the happily married man, with a
flirtatious tendency, is practically thrown
into the arms of the barmaid. That’s what
she is there for.
Gladys, you will understand, was not an
ordinary barmaid. No barmaid ever really
is. And from what my friends have told
me about barmaids I have come to the con-
clusion that they are an extraordinary race.
There was a something about Gladys that
differentiated her from every other barmaid
of my acquaintance. And she rather re-
minded me of Babette. I can’t exactly say
how; but there must have been something,
else why should I have been attracted to her?
But when I got to know Gladys better —and
it is amazing how soon you get to know even
an extraordinary barmaid like Gladys
better —I found that in other ways
she was not in the least like Babette. That
encouraged me to learn to know her still
better. Now, I love my wife. I think her
the best wife in the world. But then, she’s
a wife. So, you see, Gladys, who isn’t a
wife —at least not my wife—cannot really be
compared with Babette. And anyhow I
think too highly of my wife to compare her
even to Gladys.
One evening I kissed her across the bar.
It is an awkward way to kiss anyone, though
Gladys helped me all she could. And I
fancy that in the stress of the moment I
murmured something about seeing her on her
next evening out. But I’m not sure. When
you’re kissing a girl you never are sure.
That’s why there are so many marriages.
I was late when I got home. Babette
was in bed, sound asleep. She had flung
her pig-tail from beneath her neck on to the
pillow. It lay there looking like a thick
auburn interrogation mark. I have often
wondered what that nightly question means.
She stirred, put her lips sleepily up to be
kissed, asked me drowsily whether I had
locked the front door, and seen that all the
windows were closed, and wiped my boots,
and wound the clock, and put out the light
on the landing and turned out the bedroom
gas?
I murmured “Yes,” and kissed her.
Instantly she was wide awake. “Henry,”
she exclaimed, “you’ve been kissing another
woman!”
I gasped. It was the first time I had
been struck by the intuition of the sex. It
struck me like a brick.
“A horrid woman!” she added with in-
tense conviction.
“Nonsense!” I feebly said.
“Henry!” When Babette calls me Henry
the referee starts his count.
“You’ve been kissing some horrid woman
to-night, Henry. It’s no use you’re denying
it. And,” she sniffed, “a barmaid.”
More intuition !
“Well,” I said desperately, “what if I
have?”
Babette straightened herself. “I can’t
believe it of you!” she cried. “My Henry
to kiss another woman!”
“I couldn’t help it,” I said. “I was hav-
ing a drink on my way home and....and
it just happened... .1 didn’t mean it. I
was just leaning over to her, talking to her,
and somehow our lips touched. That’s all.
Nothing to make a fuss about, is it? You
see, it might have been our elbows that
happened to touch; and nobody would object
if it was elbows, would they? Well, as it
happened, it was our lips.”
“You don’t kiss with your elbows,” Bab-
ette snorted.
“It was a pure accident,” I explained.
“And I swear to you, Babette, that it will
never happen again.”
“Then it did happen?” Babette moaned.
“Even though I knew you had kissed her, I
refused to believe it. Oh, and I thought
you were.... safe. That a husband of mine”
(she spoke as if she had 38), "that a hus-
band of mine should even want to kiss
another woman ! And a barmaid ! Henry,
you have broken my heart.”
She relapsed into sobs.
I got out of bed, groped in the darkness
for the chest of drawers, and came back
with two of my largest handkerchiefs. I
knew we were in for a wet evening.
Between two sobs Babette snatched the
handkerchiefs, and applied them to her nose.
Then she went on crying, with, it seemed to
me, new vigor.
I felt an unutterable cad. The thought
of that barmaidenly kiss was a thought of
loathing. How could I have forgotten Bab-
ette for even the moment when our lips had
met across the bar? And I had degraded
my love for Babette by that out-of-bounds
caress. It seemed incomprehensible to me
how I could have wanted to kiss Gladys.
Here, crying her dear eyes out, was the
most alluring woman in the world, and I
had gone from her arms to wallow in drink
and mad dissipation. I stammered out
something of this to Babette, but she was
too much occupied in weeping to catch all I
said.
“All very well,” she sobbed. “But I can
never look on you with the same feeling
again. You have broken my heart. You
have ruined my life. I shall never see you
again. I shall go home to mother.”
She meant it. Babette was a woman, and
all women are conventional. The only
proper thing to do when you find your hus-
band out is to go home to your mother.
“But, Babette,” I cried, “I swear it will
never happen again. Won’t you forgive
me? I’ll never see that woman any more.
Oh, how can I show you how sorry I am!”
I felt that I was at a disadvantage. In
the usual quarrel it is quite easy, when
you’re worked up to it, to be convincing and
even dramatic. But a quarrel between a
husband and a wife, with the gas out, at
1.30 a.m. is not only undignified but a trifle
absurd. How could I express my contri-
tion when my head was on the pillow and I
was speaking to an unseen head on the
other pillow?
“It’s all over,” Babette moaned. “Leave
me.”
There was nothing else I could do. But
I didn’t go. For there was nowhere for me
to sleep except in an armchair in the draw-
ing room. “Leave me!” sounds so final on
the stage; but for a wife to ask her hus-
band to spend a sleepless nigbt on a chair
is carrying even the higher drama too far.
“Well?” Babette said coldly.
“You know that if I have to leave the
room I’ll catch a cold,” I mildly said.
“That’s true,” Babette moaned. “But
that a husband of mine could think of his
own selfish comfort when he has ruined my
life!”
I got hurriedly out; but as I fumbled
for the catch of the door Babette called.
“Don’t be ridiculous, Henry. A false hus-
band is bad enough, but a husband with a
cold in his head would be simply horrid.
Come back at once.”
I crept back, and recognised that my
plight was little better. For, by all the
rules of married life, I had to keep right on
the extreme edge of the bed, and as there
is a good deal of Babette the mattress
slopes down to her, and my side of the bed
is rather like the roof of a house.
“Darling,” I ventured. “I’ve done wrong.
But this is a lesson. Can’t you forgive me,
ever?”
“Never! I can never trust you again.
Another handkerchief, please.”
I replenished her stock of handkerchiefs.
“It’s no use you saying another word,”
she sobbed. “Nothing can ever make things
the same again.”
I saw that penitence would not do. I had
an inspiration. “Babette,” I said sharply,
though I hated myself, “unless you forgive
me this minute, I swear I’ll kiss that woman
frequently.”
She gasped. “You brute! Mother was
right! Go to your barmaid !”
“I shall! I’ll go to her the first thing
to-morrow. I’d go to her now only I don’t
know her address. I don’t even know her
second name.”
“Oh,” she wailed. “You prefer that crea-
ture to me?”
“No. But you force me to seek her.”
“You prefer her kisses to mine.”
“No!” , , .
“I’m sure,” she murmured, “she can t kiss
you as nicely as I do.”
I enthusiastically agreed.
“But you don’t know how nicely I can
kiss,” she went on. “You’ve known only my
honeymoony kisses; but I can do better
than that. And now you’ll never know.”
“No,” I said coldly. “But you’re a little
unfair to —to the barmaid. I’ve only kissed
her once. Who knows, when we’ve had
more experience, whether she won’t im-
prove in her kissing?”
Babette moaned. I could not stand it.
“But I’m not going to experiment any more
with barmaids,” I said. “And as you won’t
believe I love you, I’m going to show you.
You can scream, you can struggle, you can
scratch, but I’m going to kiss you now.”
“Oh!” she gasped, and lay. quite still.
She did not scream, she did not struggle,
she did not scratch.
“Darling!” she said at last, “you never
kissed that odious woman like that!”
“And I never intend to, as long as you
can kiss like that.”
“I’m so glad,” she whispered. “I forgive
you, for I know that it’s me you love, after
all. And I’m glad you kissed that barmaid.
It has put me on my mettle, and for every
kiss you attempt to give her or any other
woman again I’ll give you ten of mine.
I’ve been satisfied and contented with the
silly thought that I had you safe. It’s made
me lazy, hasn’t it? But now that I know
I’ve got to fight for you, you won’t have any
leisure to kiss anybody else.”
So, happily we went to sleep, I with her
pig-tail in my mouth and her arm ricking
my neck.
Our marriage had been saved from wreck.
Babette had learnt the dangers that lie in
wait for husbands. It is the unsuspicious
wives who fail to bring their happiness
safely past the shoals of marriage. On one
of those hidden obstacles to matrimonial
navigation Babette would assuredly have
lost me—l would have come to grief on the
Scylla of Gladys or in the Charybdis of
Flossie—if it hadn’t so miraculously hap-
pened that the siren was addicted to scent.
HENRY JAMES JAMES.


WESTINGHOUSE
(MORSE)
CHAIN DRIVES.
HU
witkSM
.
*,l
6>».«
mm
Ip
'f?*; 1 - ■ fit
«»WMS*W
10E
; . . -v, ; '
’ *
(MSB »v f , ••
sM
The resistance due to the sliding
friction at the joint, inseparable
from chains of the solid joint pin
type, is eliminated, and the fullest
advantage is taken of the power
developed by the Motor by
utilising the patent
ROCKER JOINT.
98 per cent. Efficiency,
Made in units from £ to 1000 h.p.
Full Particulars from
gfdfgd
Queensland Agents— Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents— Philips & Pike, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
we You Considered
They are a much better proposition
than a Band Resaw. The upkeep is
considerably less, and the saw-kerf is
smaller, combined with more finished
cutting.
Universally Used in Europe in
Preference to a Band Resaw.
Feed up to 150 ft. per minute.
Ask our Bolinder expert to call on
you with a view of explaining more
fully the advantages of these Machines.
m
The Austra! Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Giarence Street, Sydney.
Brisbane: GORDON FAINE LTD.
Melbourne: NOYES BROS. LTD.
Metz-“22£190
The Simple Car for the Country.
These Serviceable Cars are at Work all over N.S.W.
If you require a Simple, Economical, Reliable and Moderately-priced Car it will
pay you to investigate the METZ. Friction Drive (eliminating complicated
gear wheels), 22 H.P., 4 cyl. Bosch Ignition, clearance, 45m. p. hour,
33m. p. gallon.
Kent
SYDNEY.
The British-
Waverley,
From £350 to
e
It
u.
£375
m
/f
r
o
“My name
u Simplicity .*
“ I can travel
swiftly over the roughest paper.
I travel many hundreds of miles every year — over
foolscap and nottpaper, sketch book and drawing pad.
I can travel in comfort, with never a hitch, or a
jolt, or a wait, for years and years .”
The Onoto is the Fountain Pen that fills itself
instantly from any ink supply, with no trouble or
mess. A simple device seals the ink reservoir so that
the Onoto cannot leak. You can pack it in your bag
without any fear of it ever spoiling your clothes. It
is the safety pen that is REALLY safe—the self*
filling pen that is ALWAYS satisfactory. Get it.
Onoto
the non-stop pen.
Price 12/** and upwards, of all Stationers, Jewellers and
Stores. Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on application to
THOS. DE LA RUE &> CO., Ltd., 181 Bunhill Row,
London, E.C. ; or the Australasian Representatives, Norman
Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
Ask for Onoto Ink—Best for all Pens.
LIFE, AFTERALL.
IS BUT
>
A BRIEF EXISTENCE
a
r,r
BEECHAMS PILLS
HELP US TO MAKE
THE MOST OF IT”
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager.
Wm
rfETfiQj}
N
m
O
U-C
SAWMILLERS,
Builders & Joiners.
Take my advice and buy your
Woodworking Machines at
KIRCHNER & CO.
32 MarKet Street, Sydney.
They hold the largest stock in Australasia. They give you
value for your money. They are the manufacturers, and can
save you the heavy, middleman’s commission. Their
machines are up to date and reliable. They stock all spare
parts and reserve tools. It will be a pleasure to you and
your men to work their machines.
Go and see them to-day, or ’phone City 7091.
CASH OR TERMS. CATALOGUES FREE.
331
lAIVBOND DRILLING CO.Pty.Ltd.
OLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works—Sturt St., South Melbourne.
miimuw
BMWSTRQWO
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Armstrong Traction Well-Boring Machine
MOVES WITHOUT HORSES
RUM ELY KEROSENE
OIL TRACTORS.
ALL-STEEL BORING PLANTS,
TOOLS AND CASING.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines,
Pumps, Windmills, Silos, Hay
Presses, Wagons, etc., etc.
fg
ĝdf
gdf
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
RAM
RIFE
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL.
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile—
WRITE FOR FREE PLANS and BOOK.
2613 Trinity Bldg.
RIFE ENGINE CO.
New York


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Writ* for our Catalogue, or cail -and inspect.
MACH LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
ƒg
Fitted with Motors for Use on any Supply Voltage or System.
EbEnK 01s*te &
OF .AUSTRALIA Lts».
SYDNEY: Wynyard Lane.
MELBOURNE: 61 William Street.
BRISBANE: Corner Saul &. Roma Streets.
3520 City.
' 5117 City.
3676 Central.
It is the Power
Your Belt
Transmits .
that
Counts.
’JR
Be
Sure
and
Specify
DICK’S
BELTING
Sole Agents
Jas. Hardie S Co.
Circular Quay,
SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE.
DALGETY & C 9 LTP,
——AGENTS."
•J3JS3A.IBH « «o|Uf| ft
. ■ V, :• . _
•gbi|:s *&"&=§§
Hov*o
m
Clayton & Shuttlewortto
Portable Steam Engine.
angye Kerosene Oil Engine.
DALGETY 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Machinery Merchants, Miller’s Point, SYDNEY, and aii Branches.
AGENCIES
TANGYES: Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Steam Engines, Boilers, Pumps of all
descriptions, Winches, Chain Blocks, Hydraulic Jacks, Screw Jacks,® £o ad Soliers etc
CLAYTON & SHUTTLE WORTH: Portable Steam & Traction Engines, Stmm Road o ,
NICHOLSON & MORROW: “Union” Farm Implements, comprising r^ ls ’
WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines. MUNRO Chaffcutters and Saw Be
GANE MILKING MACHINES.
For Modern Wood-Working Machinery.
IN STOCK—J. A. PAY & EOAN CO.’s
Planers, Matchers, Molders & Surfacers, Band Saws, Saw Benches,
Swing Cut-off Saws, Hand Planers & Jointers —Latest Improved
Types by this well-known Firm.
“American” Steel Split Pulleys, Cleveland Twist Drills, and All
Requisites for the Sawmiller, Woodworker, Carpenter & Joiner.
Catalogues and Prices on Application.
H. P. GREGORY CO.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC LIGHT
WITH ECONOMY.
AUTOMATIC ELECTRIC LIGHTING SETS
FOR PRIVATE INSTALLATIONS
OVERCOME ACCUMULATOR TROUBLES.
NO ATTENDANT. THEY START and STOP THEMSELVES.
AP
PARTICULAR
FOR
LT
SOLE AGENTS
307-311 Rent Street, Sydney;
and
380 Bourke Street, Melbourne
'isfeti
SHEEP
SHEARING
MACHINERY
DANGAR GEDYE & C 2
SYDNEY.
sfic BEST ENGINE TO BUY. - -
s he CHEAPEST ENGINE TO RUN.
B»e AUSTRALIAN - MADE ENGINE.
In Other Words—
THE SUNSHINE ENGINE
Maker : H. V. McKAY, Sunshine, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane.
LAU.NDE
jf.CLEAR' ' .
:sOLujr6rH •
MSCHARQE'
■am
THICK SLIME tJISCHAROE ' ' ?
THE DORR THICKENER
The only approved mechanical deyice which will continuously decant
a liquid in a clear state from finely divided material, such as slime or
fine sand, held by the liquid in suspension, and will deliver at the
same time the thickened material as fast as it is formed, either
continuously or intermittently as desired.
ADVANTAGES OF DORR THICKENER.
Small cost of operation and installation—larger capacity and higher
extraction —reduced head room and economy of water.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS—
N. GUTHRIDGE L™,
SYDNEY and
MELBOURNE.
