

J
. -V ,v,-
Machinery Merchants,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOK— < _
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes ®f SECURITY,
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N-5 W* MONT
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAQH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite) National Amphitheatre.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
* 159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUBTAOE BENNETT, General Manager.
»«! 111
C2531D
f UK-.- |
fill
aimmnw
I ■)!»?• :';ll|l!lllllllll»,' lllllill
BCOBAftT.
MSS
■
Hadley s Orient fjotel.
Richardson's
Wine 8 Spirit Stores,
68 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
158 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
■:
fc:.
S-t*.
Bottle, Case or Gallon at Wholesale Pric
WVJTTO/YS
HAMS
BACON
u
s 5.H.8
sdf
ANTI BLOWPIPE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious gnd invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
sdf
sdf
For INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 180 First-Class Prize Medals.
ss£miiso%£L 7yl£s
The Best for Rough Roads.
The impregnated rubber=cord foundation of these tyres enables
them to resist moisture, strain and friction. Catalogue free.
THE SSLVERT9WN RUBBER CO., Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne.
WHITE
ROOFS
See how the architects are using White Malthoid? It lends itself to their ideas. It is
artistic——charming; but at the same time eminently practical. It is weatherproof, water-
proof, fume-proof and proof against variations in temperature. The asbestos coating is
a double' insurance, so to say. Freight on Malthoid is little because Malthoid is light.
Would you like to see samples? No matter what you are building——Mansion or Barn—
White Malthoid is the ideal roofing.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO.
Challis House, D ' S " EVANS » Australasian Representative, Sydney
yik V4pi HP *m ««
Sfcgr/
r nfr |jp,rc Ki; j
r-T* JT*U
// // ///
PWr^rpj
w
* <lt*
?.&r! £
." r
,! 1 ',l .
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T ?
I
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L TD
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
I
Telegraphic Address—BACON. Murarrie, Qtieenslaad
The Bulletin
Vol. 35.—N0. 1806.]
[Thursday, September 24, 1914.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


WAR MAP OF BELGIUM
▼▼ aTxd NORTH-EAST FRANCE.
Copied *«
«sa« ssi *reJ* *v . »„,
W ROBERTSON 8 CO, PROPTY LTD., 238 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
The Mouth is the Gateway
for the Entrance of Disease
Professor Miller has proved conclusively that
no fewer than 38 different infections may be
traced wlth more or less directness to the
Fffri mouth as a focal or starting point.
The month being the gateway for the ei.trance
of disease, therefore it is here that the fig
must begin to keep the enemy out.
HUDSON'S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Ger-
in a sweet, healthy eondmon.
A. The Larynx or
organ of voice.
B. The Trachea or
windpipe.
sdf
dsf
C. The Bronchial
tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
I) A Lobe of one
of the lungs.
HUDSON’S EPMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no Cocaine or n otV l% n P YOUNG DrU§ '
<?TTTTED FOR OLD AND YUU«u.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza and the
PREVENTION OE CONSUMPTION.
Sold everywhere, Chemists, Groceis, Store
keepers, in tins, price 1/6.
The Medical Press and Circular says.--
“Theie Jujubes should be of special service to
Lecturers, Public Singers and Speakers, and,
indeed, to all who are called upon to use thei
voices frequently for prolonged periods. I*
The Red Page
A Forecast of the War
I aim,” says Frederick Palmer, in The
hot (Chapman and Hall, per Sydney
Hub), “is to express not only war as
to-day, soldiers of to-day under the
arms of to-day, but also the effects of
the «tli degree of organisation and
. methods on a group of men and
. free in its realism from the wild
abilities of some latter-day novelists
ive given us wars in the air or re-
is with the decimation of armies by
ves dropped from dirigibles or their
iation by noxious gases compounded
hero of the tale.” Palmer is an ex-
•ed war-correspondent, who has been
h the Russo-Jap. and the Balkan cam-
, both of which affairs he regards as
■atively second-rate and only partially
itive, when the possibility of a
ian war is considered. Hence he
ic scene of his novel on the frontier
n the countries of the Grays and the
s —easily identified as the Germans
e French. Even Palmer, in his vision,
.t conceive the possibility of so uni-
a war as that now raging.
story has the usual equipment of a
There are the two opposing chiefs
ff, and the girl between, loved by the
h officer, betraying the German war
She acts as spy, and through her in-
tion enables the French chief or stall
eat the enemy’s plans. _ Melodramatic,
in the present war no single individual,
nly no woman, could be the clnet
5 of all the valuable information
red.by an intelligence department. But
h Palmer depends upon this crude
inism, the motive of his story lifts it
the usual category of war novels, lhe
Marta, might have belonged to the
Peace Society, yet with this important
ence in her creed: she did not talk
lly about universal disarmament and
ncouragement of polite manners between
lations ; though she hated aggression she
ved in defending her own country.
ie theory that Palmer presents is that
impossible in modern warfare for one
itry to conquer another. Impossible,
t the material side, because, modern im-
ement in armament and military method
> made the defensive ultimately stronger
i even the vigorous offensive, the inevit
enormous losses of the attacker being,
he end. unable to compensate for the
mtageous positions so desperately won;
impossible from the ethical side, because
sentiment of the defender of his own
will ultimately overcome the sentiment
the invader. The stronger in numbers
no more bully the weak: the units of
invading army are not for long able to
p up their enthusiasm in the attack, when
•osed by the strengthening Patnotism
men defending their own homes So when
French army has hurled the German
ay back to its frontier, the French chief
staff amazes his nation and his Premier
refusing to advance an inch over the
ntier. or to ask for an indemnity. lor
;e over the frontier the Germans would
lv .to the defence of their own homes, and
French would no longer feel the patriot-
i that forced them so stubbornly to resist.
A. man is readier to die fighting to hold
; own threshold than fighting to take
othTr man’s. War is not solely an
air of machinery and numbers. The
iman element is still uppermost.
The book has interest for its grimly real-
ic pictures of the modern battlefield. The
rt details B and snatches of incidents that
ter through the cables from the_ present
ar are here filled out m all their horror,
lie comparative little that the bomb- rop-
ng dirigibles have been able to do is fore-
id by the author. . ,
Tt isn’t like the popular dream of wiping
it armies by dropping bombs as you sail
& have 6
U The soldier, to the author, is not a mere
acteal unit-’ he is a man. Painter shows
S the socialist, disapproving of all wars,
eeing red at the first taste of shrapnel He
h o ws us the coward of the company by a
luke winning the bronze cross, and thme
fter becoming a hero. He shows the philo-
ophic mind of a soldier who has too rauc .
miaination, who is too civilised, o g •
Z “hows us him branded as. a
he shows us the woman s attitude.
Kre aoJeT You soldiers die-it >s v«y
destroy jMe MuMu, You go
"^ithXfh^tg
suffer tf e ., c p on d s e c e q d U , e Better kill the children
glory of the deed. expense 0 f bringing
voung than go to tu« i „
them up before they are killed.
In the present war, as in the novel, death
“ One b "e who” remated motionless on
,„e .road was the doctoPs^on.^
from pneumonia the barracks would have
been blue for a week. If he had fallen m
the charge across the , f 5°S th?
laborer’s son on his right and tlie juage &
son on his ?eft would have felt a spasm of
h °TMs is death, they would have thought;
death that barely missed us; death that lays
a man in the full tide of youth, as we aie,
Si Twel™ hoL f °aS r -the war had begun,
when the judge’s son missed the doctor s son
from the ranks, he Then tney
must have got him!” . ~ ~
“Yes, I saw lnm roll over on his side,
said the laborer’s son. ™
There was no further comment. Ike
lottery had drawn the doctor s son this time,
it would get someone else with the next rush
Fatalism had taken the place of sus
■nensp There is no occurrence that ire
quency will not. make familiar, and they
were already familiar with death.
S
The cables have informed us of so many
thousand aluminium identification plates
being sent to Berlin from the front. Palmer
shows us even this detail:
As the bodies were brought in they were
laid in long rows, until there was no more
room without moving a supply depot, bo
there was nothing to do but to begin ° P
them two deep. A service-corps man took
off each man’s metal identification tag and
tossed it into an ammunition box. One box
was already full and a second halt full.
Chink chink-chink-tags of the rich man s
son and the poor man’s son, the doctor of
philosophy and the illiterate; chmk-chmk-
chink—a life each time. They 11 take the
tags to the staff office and tired clerks will
find the names that go with the numbers.
“The last shot” that ushered in a lasting,
because non-vindictive, peace, is the shot
from his revolver by which the German chief
of staff killed himself. One wonders if
Palmer is as prophetic in this detail as m
his general account of the fortunes of this
German war of aggression. William the
Second is practically his own chief of stall
and William can be depended upon
always to do the melodramatic thing. His
Hell would be to remain alive.
A Book of Horrors
I'ie Ragged Trousered Philanthropists,
iobert Tressall (Richards, per Dymock’s
ary), is the finest immigration agency
established in Britain. Yet not one
i or suggestion of emigration is men-
ed in this remarkable transcript from
Cast in the form .of a novel, this
me is nothing but a realistic account
he life of the English laborer,
i her preface Jessie Pope tells the cun-
story of the genesis of A
nd asked her to look at the M.S. of the
el, “the work of a socialistic house-
iter, who wrote his book and died. fehe
ad she had chanced upon a remarkable
nan document.
Vith grim humor and pitiless realism the
:king man has revealed the lives and
rts of his mates, their opinion of then
ters, their political views, their attitude
iards Socialism. Through the busy din <•
hammer and the scraping knife, the clang
the pail, the swish of the thv
1 of the foreman, comes the talk of the
n their jokes and curses, their hopes and
rors, the whimpering of their old people
> cry of their children. In reducing a
ge mass of MS. to the limitations of book
•in. it has been my task to cut awa £ SU P®J;
ous matter and repetition only. The rest
nains as it came from the pen of Robert
essall. house-painter and sign-writer, who
lorded his criticism of the present scheme
things, until, weary of the struggle, h
pped out of it.
That is Jessie Pope’s plain statement,
obably true, with the exception of the sug-
stion that the author either died from
itural causes, of starvation or exposure,
• committed suicide. That suggestion,
cactly paralleled in the book, is a little too
•amatic for credence. This critic expects to
ad “Robert Tressall”—address of tomb-
;one and death certificate not given—why.
-as the author of many another novel—it,
ideed, he is not already an author in
'he Literary Year Book. It is too much
> expect that “Robert Tressall,’ having
nished his book, should have conveniently
ied —thus adding just the touch of literary
iathos to seduce the sympathy of the public.
Che book does not need that bribe; it is
qo fine a work of art to run any risk ot
■cmaining long obscure.
The ragged-trousered philanthropists are
i number of painters, plasterers and “deco-
rators” engaged by Rushton and Lo.,
builders and decorators, to alter and reno
vate an old-fashioned residence in Mugs-
borough. The author, with an art that
consists of an unembellished, outspoken
account of the men at work, at play, in tne
pubs and at home, without any appeal tor
pity, without any aid from dramatic effects,
contrives to bring home to the reader the
awful plight of the skilled laborer m Eng-
land, always on the border-line of starva-
tion, working in England’s awful weather,
with ever the fear of unemployment or the
greater fear of old age. sweated by rapa-
cious Fat. and not only utterly blind to
the possibility of a way out, but actually
If the suggestion that things could
i different. The author does not
he mistake of displaying his wort-
; heroes, nor does he dra
>rs as devils. He sees clear y , ,
s is, like himself, in the cruel clutch
omic conditions, lhe men
lid, bullied and driven or the boss
, under in the war of competition,
ok is a grim indictment of Hnglan s
L'ivate enterprise. , •
a, a Socialist, is the hero of this
trousered regiment. He does his best to
jn them as to their vital interests, but
ws that his is a futile campaign.
Dwen thought of his child’s future,
sprang up within him a feeling of
and fury against the maDonty oi hm
workmen. They were the t enemy
ragged-trousered P'Julanthropists who
ily quietly submitted > like so many
to their miserable slavery tor in
of others, but defended it, and opposed
diculed any suggestion for refijto.
cere the real oppressors— the men who
of themselves as • the likes wh,
lived in poverty and degradation all
lives, considered that what bad be.m
■nouah for them was good enough tor
S they l.«d been ‘he means o
ag into existence. He hated and
3 d them because they calmly saw th 1 r
m condemned to hard labor and P i
>r life, and deliberately refused to make
ffort to secure better conditions foi
than they had. for themselves It wa|
se they were indifferent to thefate
children that he would be unable to
. a natural and human life foifets. lt
heir apathy or active opposition that
it impossible to establish a better system
£etv. Instead of helping to do this
abased, themselves and grovelled befoi -
oppressors, and compelled and taug
children to; do the same. ifeey were
eople who were really - responsible t
mtinuance of the present system. Owen
ed bitterly to himself. What .a very
al svstem it was Ao wonder the rich
sed them and looked upon them as dirt.
were despicable. They mere dirt
ousands of people hkehimselfdrqgged
i wretched existence on the very verge
arvation, and for the greater number of
e life was one long struggle against
:ty (not poverty as we understand it
ustralia; English poverty). Yet pmc
v none of these people knew, or even
lied to inquire, why they were in that
ition; and for anyone else to. try to
lin to them was a ridiculous waste ot
, for they did not want to know.
> the Australian employer and the Aus-
an workman this patiently described
ition of free-born human beings speak-
dbe English language and living, 01 almost
lg , in the richest nation of our time,
ihatteringly incredible. We see them
ied by overseers, afraid of the
aught in the slightest act of rebellion,
ively trying to “get_ some off their own
c” by incredibly trivial acts ot petty
t spying on each other in the hope ot
from their employers, subservient
mting starvation wages, eager to take
k at rates below the awful trades rat ,
king under conditions appalling to Aus
ian minds, distrustful of unions, den-
, towards Socialism or combination,
mping their work because their bosses
ated nothing but scamped w«r k
mselves in pubs, stolidly the
, es and their children go underfed, await
with heavy, unimaginative Patmnce t
le when their homes would taken fro
,m and drifting placidly into old age
f Irseleitf s, or 5 if lucky, iuto the
workmen like that? Could
y work Sen be like that? The picture
itches belief to the breatm|-po»nt A
t the narrative rings true. The on y
ision is that conditions were like that
not so long ago—but that now the skiUed
wker has found the advantages ot com
nation and is feeling his striking power,
ae recent orgie of strikes shatters that pic
re of industrial England—and is explains
j that picture of industrial England p titl d
For sheer horror the chapter entitled
'Miristmas Eve” stands alone in . recent
uglish literature. The pathos of this com-
Lonplace scene in an Englishmans home
; overpowering, simply because there 1
owhere a hint of pathos nowhere an appeal
3 the reader’s sympathy. The author
rerely describes this Christmas Eve as 1
was the only kind of Christmas Eve that
\ possible for “the likes of him.” The chap-
er has the incisive etching in irony that can
,e matched only in the works of the great
nodefn Russian realists, simply because his
)en never suggests the possibility of ! » •
Tn the end, Owen, dying of lung troume,
las a vision of the future of his own ailing
ind starving child and wife, and, desperate,
lie reaches a cruel sanity ot mind,
could not give them happiness he could
at least put them out of reach of further
suffering. If he could not stay and protect
them it would be kinder and more merciful
t 0 And. 6 noT'once 1 terrible book_ is
there anv suggestion that, if it were im-
possible immediately to change the cong
tions in England, there are other countries
where labor conditions are as Heaven 10
that Hell The brilliant brain of Owen
never conceives the possibility of escaping
"i purgatory to a cleaner, sunn.er
continent No immigration agent seems
Shave visited the. rapeWrousmag »
ment. Yet, unconsciously, Robert lressaii,
by the publication of this book, has done
more than seven Wide p 0„
book is sternly recommended to union sec
retaries and Labor Members—just to.remind
them from what they have escaped.
There is something uncanny about the
war Kipling hasn’t written a poem on it
Ie Rationalist Association of K.S.W. pub-
he first Sydney Rationalist Annual,
ie shilling. The reasons alleged for
nomentous step are: The press is ant
theologic, metaphysical and sup
Sft Sanity. lU. all religions. «
ig on civilisation; the Chuich is
ealthiest organisation in the world, and
minutes it; and the Press supports the
and all other vested interests, in
“es fnclude “The Task of Rationalism
oseph McCabe, “The Jesus-Myth ana
ih and the Great Hell-Fish. Merry
iright.
Le vogue of the reprint: Of “The Temple
esneare,” within lo years, 2,oUU,UU
S Mave been sold. This senes
first of the newest order of Fnolish r
t, which gives, at a cheap puce, eveiy
'f that the expensive book can give. Oi
‘Temple Classics,” that followed it, books
Dante’s Paradiso, Little Blowers of St.
ids, the Essays of Elia, Reiipio diedtcL
Dry’s Mortis d’Arthur and C.axton s
en Legend —works surely not to the popu-
taste, went into surprisingly big figures,
the EWorld's Classics” over 2,OUO,UUU
es have been sold; and high U P * n e
of “popular” authors are Homer,
hocles and Marcus Aurelius. ihe last-
ied author has also been one of th@ suc-
es of “Everyman’s Library. No less
i 14,000,000 volumes of Everyman
e been sold. Epictetus has had a sale
30,000 copies in “Everyman ; and its
ion of Shakespeare has a record ot
,000 sets. Other “best sellers m tins
es are the literary and Historical AtHs
Europe, and The Koran. Ibsen, Gorin,
. Swedenborg also command great sal is.
ie National Library” has, during the past
years, sold over 6,000,000 cippijas.
Dhn’s” new shilling volumes include m its
desses Carlyle’s French Revolution
lliver’s Travels, Montaigne’s Essays,
jthe’s Poetry and Truth of My Own Life,
[ Burton’s Pilgrimage to Mecca. I'opu-
novels are Fielding’s Joseph Tndrmrs,
nny Burney’s Eveline and ;
r Chester Towers. ‘Nelsons Shilling
n-ary” have sold 10 000 copies of Grey s
~e Romance of a The six-
nny reprint of Justin McCarthy s Short
\story of our Own Times has been a
table success, a success equalled by Aever
>o Late to Mend, The Woman in White
d Ouida’s Under Two Flags. But the
venpenny has marked the greatest revo u-
>n in the history of reprints. The reason
tiv the price was fixed at this figure is
tuple. Nelson had already a sixpenny
ition of familiar books; but when they
11 owed this by reprints of modern books
ev had to count in something foi the
ithor’s royalty, which they fixed at one
ih nv Miss Macnaughtons Christina
cNab rushed into a saieof 100,000 copies,
issing’s Odd Woman, Whiteing s No. 5,
dm Street, Kipps, The Prisoner of Zenda,
he Four Feathers, A Gentleman of France,
nd Conan Doyle’s Micah Clarke have sold
•onderfully well. The “Home University
abrarv” has disclosed an immense public
Dr cheap, serious works, though these are
trictlv not reprints. In England that
üblic'is composed chiefly of the mechanics
f industrial centres and workers of the
ountrv regions, like the colliers. .The s nc~
ess of this venture shows a surprising ele-
ation of intelligence on the part of the
lublic. Its success lias been equally great
hroughout Australasia.
In response to a personal letter inviting
J G. Wells, for the good of his own soul
md the better appreciation ot Australasia
n the United Kingdom, to visit the Com-
monwealth, the author writes . 111 come
some day, but not just iff ] v ?
to pacify and all sorts of little jobs to settle
before I can really get away.
A Junior Course of First Aid, by Dr.
George -Lane Mullins, a useful booklet, fully
illustrated, is . published by Angus and
Robertson (6d.).
War information and statistics are to be
found in The World of Arms, a 04-page pub-
lication by Deaton and Spencer, Sydney.


dsf
Anthony Horderns’ for the Summer Fashions
n
-
’
4S~
cfuifd/brd Sfzcof* Jo(£et>fone $ fauces fer
47'6 6S r ~ 32 r 6 47 r 6
The Merton. An Up-to-date Coat, of Natural Assam Silk, 5-length, wide, loose Sleeves,
Collar and Cuffs of Black Satin, folded revers of self, finished new flounce effect at foot 45/-
The Guildford.—Fashionable Dust Coat, of Taffeta Cloth, effective Collar of heavy
Ecru Guipure/ stole fronts finished pipings of Satin to tone, new, loose back eased into wide
band of self; in Biscuit, Beaver, Reseda or Brown Shades 47/(i
Same style (No. 1420), in Casement Cloth, but with Satin Collar to tone 45 /-
The Ascot. Distinctive Coat, of Black Satin Charmeuse, wide llaglan sleeves and deep yoke
effect, stylish Collar, and deep band at foot of Black Silk Moire, lined throughout Black Jap
Silk 657-
Similar design (No. 6056), in rich Black Silk; f-length, square Collar and Cuffs of fancy Silk
Moire, folded revers of self 57/6
The Folkestone. Stylish Coat, Of Natural Tussore Silk, wide band effect at back, Collar
of Black and White stripe Silk, buttons high at neck 32/6
The Gloucester. — An Attractive Wran, of heavy Natural Assam Silk, smart, loose shape,
detachable Collar and Cuffs, of rich Ecru Guipure 47/6
DaintyWfiifefoj/eAgDes af
'' AfisonyJCordern s
/s'e
The Kathleen.—A Pretty Style in White Voile, deep Sailor Collar, Bodice trimmed fancy
totton Maltese Insertion, finished folded Belt of Saxe Blue Satin 15/6
The Phyllis. — A Dressy Robe Costume in White Voile, prettily trimmed cotton Maltese
and Crochet Insertion; the fashionable Skirt has piped flounces, edged insertion.... 19/6
*he Xiobe.—An Attractive Robe Costume in richly Embroidered Voile, turned-down
Collar and Raglan Sleeves are trimmed with Guipure Edging 23/6
The Cynthia.—A Dainty Robe Costume in soft White Voile, effectively trimmed Guipure
Insertion, American Collar, finished frilling on front of Bodice; Skirt has deep flounce, forming
new Tunic ' 17/6
The Selina. A Dainty Style in Hail-spot Muslin, effectively trimmed Guipure Insertion,
neck finished with points of colored Silk ; Skirt trimmed with Insertion to correspond with
22/6
Bodice
Consult our
SUMMER
FASHION
PORTFOLIO
for all that
is Now and
Smart.
WRITE FOR
A COPY,
POST FREE
ON
REQUEST.
BE WISE!
Buy
Everything
> at
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
FAMOUS
LOW
PRICES*
THEY
SAVE
YOU
SOVS.
A.V.
’ 1? If.
I '
* >:
tK*
. # t
, 11. L II
TTVI
II i
‘AX
* W -
r
as
F .5*
I!
W
7/*? fflarjo/i'
1916
76e Beafr/ce ’ 76? Eivinia
I9 r ll 35 / 6
tf'tt
M
i f
viyy
sssm
M
m
fiftSOi
MS
7/>e‘Dj/jea/i
197/
27'6
The Marion. Maid’s Robe, in soft White Cotton Voile, simply and daintily designed,
trimmings of hem-stitching and Irish Guipure Lace. Modelled for Maids from 14 to 19
rears
The Beatrice. Maid’s Robe, in dainty floral Voile, beautifully out and prettily trimmed
narrow French Valenciennes Lace. Expressly designed for Maids from 14 to 19 years, also
Small Ladies
The Livinia. Maid’s Robe, in an exquisite White Embroidered Voile, cut in soft, graceful
lines for Maids from 17 to 19 years 35/0
The Daljean. Maid’s Robe, in a fine Brussels Net Lace, Paris shade. A simple, graceful
Frock for Maids from 17 to 19 years 19/Jl
The Poppy. Maid’s Robe, in a dainty White Broderie Anglaise Voile, charmingly designed
for Maids from 14 to 19 years 27/6
Shirk of'ific aiffnfhoni/ Horderns
L “s
3040
4 44
41 /
to, a
: • c
‘■l-y.v— -—■■
r:
IT •
: <
.
3 249
32|G
S24S
X t O. 3262.—Stylish Black Resilda Skirt, with new yoke front, draped hips and J>ac lc,
finished fancy Black Silk Buckle with Fan effect 27/6
No. 444. Neatly-desig'lied Skirt, in Frosted White Crepe, shaped lap seams around hips,
: Crochet Buttons, Empire waist, Fan back 15/6
Xo. 417. Well-cut Skirt, in soft Black and White Sponge Cloth, with deep shaded self fold
down centre front, finished Black and White Bone Buttons, Empire waist slightly gathered with
strap across back 13/6
No. 3040. — Handsome Black Crepe de Chine Skirt, well-cut, with two deep graduated
shaped flounces trimmed small Black Silk Buttons, gathered waist finished swathed Black Silk.
Belt 48/6
No. 421. Smart Walking Skirt, in Black Resilda, broad self-shaped fold in front, finished
Black Arrows, Fan back 19/6
No. 3248. Newly-desig'lied Skirt, in Granite Sponge Cloth Suiting, new-shaped front with
flounce effect, trimmed Crochet Buttons, gathered waist; in Green and Grey, Black and Grey,
and Light Blue and Grey Mixtures 1 18/11
Other smart designs in White Sponge Cloth 10/6, 13/6, 14/6, 16/6
No. 3249. — Prettily-draped Skirt, in good-quality White Japanese Silk, trimmed hemstitched
shaped flounce, finished thick Cord pipings, panel front effect with Crochet buttons, gathered
Empire Waist, with new folded Belt 32/6
Other new styles in White Japanese Silk 18/6, 21/-
No. 419. Useful Walking Skirt, in White Poplin, 4-piece, shaped seam in front, pleated
at foot, finished China buttons : 14/9
Also, in plainer style 11/9
Out Sizes, 2/6 extra; Silk Fabrics, 3/6 extra.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emoorium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


[ERR© Dealers Wanted.
ds
mm
mom
%
■*»~*-**r
a
fi
jr
Ferro Detachable
Boat Motor.
HERE is the latest and best detachable
or rowboat motor, built in the largest
and best equipped marine engine plant
in the world. You can attach it to any type
of boat—rowboat, canoe, skiff, dory or sailboat
—in one minute, and remove it again as quickly
without disfiguring the boat and without the use of
tools. Weighs a little over 50 pounds and will
drive a boat 7 to 10 miles per hour.
Bosch Magneto—Carburetter.
The same high-grade material and workmanship, the same
care in design and construction as used in the well-known
line of FERRO engines is used in this motor. It has
removable bearings, rudder, float-feed and,
where desired, BOSCH High-Tension Reversible W ater-
proof Magneto is supplied. This motor is the best-
selling proposition ever offered.
We also Build a Complete Line of Marine & Stationary Engines.
Write us to-day for agency proposition for your territory. Our
Export Department will help you make the agency prohtabl ..
Correspondence in any language. Write r Lo-<laj.
The Ferro Machine c Foundry Go.
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.S.A. CABLE: FERRO—CLEVELAND.
\ \\WAWA,\. LI, I, U.IU///
At night
and again
in the morning
your teeth ought to have that
thorough antiseptic cleansing
which is so readily provided
by the use of
p
fds
THE BEST
s^jSMOKE
? is
Yellow
aster
« TOBACCO
TOOTH &. GO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Atild Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS,
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRADE MARK
SPLKMDIL 5.8.8. L GUN 12 Rauß?, choke bore, Jails at extra
Accurate and reliable. Ilolida} liice, li/O. • steel barrels,
Greener cross bolt, bar and reading JocK* choke and • EXCELLENT
walnut stock, pistol . S n P- Gm ÜBNMUNi VN ified steel
KILLER. Holid|y Price, £3/10/- itaRMFR’S FRIEND. Special Price,
barrels Government rested lH E t R | AK 1 E DO WN RIFLE, nice and
£2/2/- MAUSER mJL.I - 1 -4 FAVORITE. Holiday
P S Ve l//fi "CHAMPION CENINJRY mEIE fitted with patent beaded
sight,’ pistol grip, steel heel plate, be^. t d g OU on a e nCl of P our bestsellers. Hobday
long, .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our
Pnce ’ can 6 rf. obtained at these prices only from
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Largest
MAKE
£4O A
MONTH
If you are making 1
less than £lO a. week,
write us today. VVO|
can help you to wealth
and independence by,
our plan, you can work
when you please, where
you please, always J
have money and the
means of making bar-
rels more of it.
JUST LISTEN TO
THIS. Mr. Lloyd took
a 4000-mile trip accom-
panied by wife and
child. He stayed at
the best Hotels, lived
like a Lord wherever ha went ana
cleaned up more than £2 every day
he was out. Another man worked
the carnivals and resorts, and when
there was nothing special to do, just
started out on any street he hap-
pened to select, got busy and pulled
in £l-10 a day for month after
month. This interests you, don t it? _ _
i«r MY proposition 'mm - - . . n
IS a WONDERFUL NEW CAMERA with which you can take an ; d Jnstantaneously develop
pictures on paper. Post Cards and Tintypes. Every picture te developed
atfves and is ready to deliver to your customer m a minute after profit of from 500
REMARKABLE INVENTION takes 100 P an hour and pays jmu business
CO make money in a short time after the outfit reaches you-
mtF' spy we trust you 'mm _ .
sin MUCH CONFIDENCE HAVE WE in our proposition that we Tkiisr fOt for part
is reasonable. The profits are so Dig, so quick so certain that you can make big money
SSS you neea ° ot pay unl “ you
W ”S SyTSSute I '“wSS^S&yto? <W l£> OKta Ml particular Addrets
either office. L.LASGELLEj
Cv^>
OWN
BOSS
8 Bouverle St., Dept
<537 W. 43d St., Dept,
1364
London, England.
New York, U. S. A.
Is this one of your
“Don’t-want-to” Days?
Some days you feel bright and happy and full of
the joy of life. On others you feel just as dull.
When these depressing feelings are upon you, you
don’t want to eat, you don t Want to work, you
don’t want to do anything! The truth of the
matter is, you have a touch of biliousness, or in
other words, your liver is out of order and digestion
disturbed. On such occasions, it is not really a
case for the doctor, it is merely a case for one or two
m
LL
r sl
ft
ANTIBILICUS
A REPUTATION OF OVER 100 YEARS.
Cockle’s Pills were originated by a well-known English doctor
especially for disorders of the liver and digestion, and although
dispensed by him only privately at first, they were so successful
that their fame soon spread all over the world. If this is one of
your “ don’t-want-to” days, get a box of Cockle’s Pills at once;
take two to night and to-morrow
you will feel like a new man.
' -0-
Penny Postage was instituted
in England in 1840 and many of the letters on
which the first postage stamp was stuck,
contained requests to Dr. James Cockle, of
4, Great Ormond Street, London, for a box of
his famous Antibilious Pills, which had
then enjoyed a reputation of 40 years.
COCKLE’S PILLS
Of Chemists throughout
the World. Prices xn
England, 1/IJ<£ 2/9 a box.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS
LOTION.
QUICKLY REMOVES
SKIN ERUPTIONS . . .
ENSURING A
CLEAR COMPLEXION
The slightest Rash, faintest
Spot, irritable Pimples, dis-
figuring Blotches, ohstinutc
Eczema disappear by applying
SULPHOLIN E
Which renders the skin spot-
less, soft, clear, supple, com-
fortable.
BOTTLES 1/- and 2/9.
For 42 Years.
SULPHOLINE
■Has been the Remedy for
ERUPTIONS
PIMPLES
REDNESS
PSORIASIS
ROUGHNESS,
RASHES
ECZEMA
SCURF
ACNE
BLOTCHES
SPOTS
ROSEA
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists
J. PEPPER & CO., LTD., Bedford Laboratories, LONDON, S.E., Eng.,
and can be obtained direct from them by post or from
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD. • _
Sulpholine quickly removes the effect oi Sunsco


DON’T NEGLECT
YOUR HA!R
Your looks demand that you
should take care of it, make
•it more beautiful, more lus-
trous, softer ; you can easily
and readily do so by using
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR
OIL
which nourishes, strengthens,
nurtures, and piotnote* the
growth of Fine Sill:y Hair;
you will notice an im move-
ment from the first time you
use it. Use it for your own
and your Children’s Hair;
Gulden Colour tor Fair Hair.
Sold in three sizes by Stores,
Chemists, and Rowland’s,
67, Hatton Garden, London.
Avoid cheap imitations under
the same or similar name.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS
/
) Packed Free. Carriage Paid direct from
i our factory to your Fort, Ten Days' Free
Trial. Best British-made MEAD
Coventry Ftyers
Defiance Puncture- Resitting- or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters. Variable-Speed
B.S. A, Free Wheels, Flyer or Brook’s
Saddles, etc.
r LATEST
MODELS
<£r 3ml O to £ 9
T yres and accessories at half usual prices
[Write at once, using sufficient postage, foi
Tree Art Catalogue aud special
Offer on sample machine.
.Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept. A 282 LIVERPOOL..
AGE N T for MEAD
VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND.
CYCLES-
Melbourne.
ALL MODELS.
LETTERS COPIED WHILE WRITING
(in ink) by using your own Letter-paper
with this Book. You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing you
secure a perfect letter and a
perfect copy. There is no
fsd
fdsf
sign of copying. 400 octavo Bin. x 5m., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/200 Book, size 10R x
B§, post free 4/6; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Bin. x sin., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper which
produces this result, free if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic, Leicester, England.
Zanetic goods obtainable from Sands & McDougall,
Ltd., Collins Street West, Melbourne, and Branches
at Adelaide and Perth.
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES
I Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you'll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Kvpryone says so who has used it. Write for a
t’u now. 1/6. posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist.
Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
2]
I LEY
CARTRIDGES
d
Always
Reliable
Eley
‘Grand Prix’
Cartridge Case,
loaded with Eley
Smokele s, Ballis-
tite, Smokeless <>>
Diamond, Schultze,
or any standard
smokeless powders
Eley’3lo
Cadet
Smokeless
Efey
•450
No. 1
Rifle
Eley’4so
Revolver
Eley32o
Revolver
sf
Eley
Single Rise
Expert Trap
Eley Targets
for Trap
Shootin O’
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
Wholesale: Eleyßros., Ltd., London
o
V V
ill
sdf
The
1
m
sdf
sd
m
B
MUMS
CURES DRUNKARDS-
Without their knowledge ?— YES ! Golden Specific will cure any case ofdrunk-
P atient ’ s knowledge I It is tasteless and odorless, and can easily be given secretly.
TO PROVE IT, we will send a IT KiCIL S AMPLE, to all who are interested on receipt of a 2d.
stamp. . . A recent letter states that a man who was a drunkard for 40 years was cured in about 2 u eeks
with this treatment. It quickly eradicates all craving for strong drink, and gives back to the one-time
drunkard all the vigor and vitality he has wasted by his excesses, making him heal hy, happy and prosper-
ous. Write for sample and particulars to-day. GOLDEN SPECIFIC Co., (Dept 2018) Pitt St., Sydney
1
HI
MAKE UP YOUR
MIND TO HAVE
A PERFECT
BUST
There are to-day hundreds of women who were once thin, flat-
bosomed, hollow-cheeked and generally scraggly in appearance, and
suffering the effects of anaemia and defective digestion, who are now for
the first time in their lives healthy, full-bosomed and pink-cheeked, and
enjoying the full vigor of robust womanhood, as the result of a few
weeks under our wonderful
“FLESH-FOOD ** TREATMENT.
Many women whose figures have been spoiled by maternal duties
have been entirely restored to splendid form, and fiat-chested young
women who suffered slow development have had the fault corrected by
this treatment with lasting effect.
l' lesh-Kood is totally harmless in every respect. Its efficacy is
beyond question, and its use no demand upon the subject’s time. Many
cases gained up to six pounds a week, and an increase in bust measure-
ment up to 8 and 10 inches. Guarantee given in every case.
ANY WOMAN who lacks good bust development lacks the one essential that creates a perfect
appearance. Lack of proper bust development, hollow cheeks and “salt-cellars” quickly take'from
a woman the bloom and freshness of healthy womanhood. Misfortune may have been your lot in
so far as natural development is concerned, but science has found a way to correct your deficiency.
Kven though you have never been full-boscmcd, and though you have been attenuated all your life,
if you suffer from no wasting disease, your bosom can be fully developed and your weight increased
to normal. /y - HAS BEEN DONE FOR THOUSANDS— —— WHY NOT YOU?
You can readily see the effect of an increase in your weight or measurements. It is not neces-
sary to imagine you are being benefited. See what Miss M. BOURKE, of Tamworth, says -
_ “Yours to hand, and am pleased to state that your treatment increased my
weight considerably over two stone, and my bust 'measurements by several
inches. Since using it I am much better in health, and my flesh is now firm
and I feel stronger and more vigorous. I thank you for the trouble you have
taken, and am grateful for all you have done for me.”
FREE
SAMPLE
We publish an interesting book on the subject of attenuation and develop-
ment, and will send same and a FREE SAMPLE TREATMENT to yon FREE
OF CHARGE upon receipt of a 2d. stamp to pay part postage. All communica-
tions private and confidential. Write or call to-day for full particulars. [lBlB
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO., 1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
THE
e
=r
is?
rtt
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund, £500,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,4j»4.
Directors: JOHN GRICE, Esq., Chairman; H. M. ST RACHAN, Esq., Vice-Chairman; EDWARD
TRENCIIARD, Esq.; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD
SYDNEY OFFICE, GO PITT STREET. Manager, R. S. Gregson; Acct., F. Cleave.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgate, E.C.
Tobacco
fd
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less. vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FFIEE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, “ The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR ffiL CO.,
Dept. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. [4.
ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have yon grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE 10 WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and wo will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPIURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps.. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To Bhow what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
tin* reach of all. Cnn you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children.
I ESC IPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
249 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia. and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Roll Up, Mary Ann!
(A patriotic song of the practical sort.)
The latest outcome of the spirit of patriotism now
stirring Australia is the formation of a corps of lady
volunteers in New South Wales. The force is to con-
sist of no fewer than 5000 women between the ages
of 16 and 32, who will learn military drill and
the use of the rifle. The idea originated with Miss E.
White, daughter of Mr. .1. E. White, of North Syd-
ney, and she is receiving support in influential
quarters. —News item.
The shrieks for help are ringing o’er the
columns black and white,
And there are anxious faces in Australian
homes to-night.
So rally round ere it’s too late! Come!
answer to the call,
For you are wanted at the Back, where
heroes never fall!
The Front is very far away and only men
may fight,
So drop the rifle for the broom and come
along to-night,
For we have got a soldier-boy, and, while
he’s growing up,
Come round and help his Mum to sweep and
swab the breakfast cup.
The Empire’s got all sorts of work, and
those who scrape the pots
Are building up the stomachs of the men
who’ll tire the shots.
Get to the work you can do best. Though
you thus humbly serve,
All’s well, for you are building up the
Empire’s brain and nerve;
If Eton’s fields are famous now, it may be
said of you
You won some battles with your pots in
Haberfield or Kew.
Get to the gas-stove firing line, where ymi
can render aid,
And fight with Colonel Mummy of the young
Household Brigade!
N.S.W.
UP GIRLS AND AT ’EM.
Leaving Melbourne.
All night long the cold airs blew about.
The trees of August shivered back to June ;
All night long with cry, and rain, and shout,
They smothered Springtime’s new and
ancient rune.
Shivering I left the South, through basalt
leas,
Pale gleaming in weak sun-rays that do
mock,
Craving for Torres and the Northern Seas,
And lands where lizards sun upon the rock.
And in a night the winter gasped and died,
The icy winds flew southward to Cape Horn;
Down from the mountains came the Spring
in pride,
And in a morning the new year was born.
This dawn I heard the laughing of a child.
The fifing of a blackbird, and the song
“Come! Come to Sydney! Joy has made
us wild,
The sun is showering gold on Benelong.
“Leave Winter’s ashes for a sky of stars,
Re-create the splendid last Spring’s way,
Drunk with wine and Summer all the nights
of Mars,
Drunk with new-born beauty all the day.”
Never does it matter that last Spring we
were fools ;
Wise foolishness that knows the splendid
truth—
Greater than all teachings and the pundits
of the schools,
All Earth’s knowledge, all Earth’s good, is
Youth.
Native roses scent the breath of sea-beat
Narrabeen,
Red-tiled roofs of Mosman burn the air all
day ;
And I heard this morning, with the Spring-
sense keen,
An idle man a-singing in a boat high up the
bay.
All the world is drunken with the convicts’
new respite,
Wine shall lose no cobwebs till Summer
swaggers in;
Drunk are we with looking on September’s
new delight, . v.
And the cold’s forgotten as a twenty-year-
old sin.
“Youth!” we said in winter, “Youth’s for
ever gone” ;
For we looked out sad-eyed as the last leaf
left the tree;
But down south at Bull: Pass waratahs
have shone,
And September brings the purple to the sea.
All the wet west winds with iceberg breath,
Driven shrieking south to seas that whip
Cape Horn,
Footless ghosts that bore within their
shrouds the monster Death,
When in a night the World’s New Hope
was born.
N.S.W.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Also....
The blare of bugles, and men talking big;
And waving flags, and hurried medals struck ;
And vinous Quarrels, and much corner chat.
And “Rule Britannia” and “Vive L’Angle-
terre,”
“Advance Australia,” and some heated prate
Of dying for one’s country. This is War.
Lean babes a-whimper in an unroofed house;
thin curls of smoke above its blackened tree :
A Something swinging from a pallid limb,
V\ ith dangling boots and livid mouth agape ;
A blazing hillside and a screaming horse
Gun-tortured on a starlit battlefield ;
Or wounds gangrening in a slow, cold rain.
And someone piling money overseas
From rotten stores and bayonets made of
lead ;
And someone praying “Peace” (and loading
guns),
And bloated birds of prey, and starving men
And ravished women.... This is also War.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


A TELEPHONE is Your Quickest Messenger, Mr. Farmer.
fsd
f
When you.know there has been a bush Are eight or ten miles across your
paddock, -you have to send a horse and man to see if .vour stock is safe,
etc. This costs probably half a day’s time. By installing a
“WATSON” Farm Telephone
at each end you can save this unnecessary distance. You can connect the
’Phone with your Fencing Wire, at very low cost; and you can have
Instruments connected from it to the Men’s Huts, the Stables, etc.
Have an installation before Summer. Let us send YOU full particulars.
Write NOW.
AGENTS WANTED IN EACH STATE FOR THE
KELLOGG SWITCHBOARD SUPPLY CO.
W. G. WATSON & CO. LTD.
Suppliers of Everything Electrical,
279 Clarence Street ; 426=430 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Electric Light for Country Homes Costs 2i&. Per Hour
I
B H
11 1
i I
*
And this, independent of Local Power
Stations.
The Lister - Bruston
Automatic Electric
Lighting Sets...
generate Electricity automatically. The
Dynamo starts as soon as the Lights arc
turned on. The Plant is self-contained,
delivered ready for work, and takes up
about 9x4 feet floor space.
There are over 1000 Sets in use now.
Let us tell YOU more about the System.
AGENTS: N.S.W.-W. G. WATSON & CO., LTD., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
VIC.—SUTHERLAND & ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND-WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—CLUTTER BUCK BROS., Adelaide.
ON TNE NOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely
and bound; containing upwards of
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings.
Bulletin size- Price. 21s.
printed
Three
Full
For Sugar-cine Cultivation.
i
0
km.
r
The “SUN QUEEN”
Straddle Cultivator.
Made in Australia and perfectly adapted to Queensland condi-
tions. Embodies all desirable adjustments. Light Draught.
Easily Managed. Comfortable Seat for Driver. Sturdily Built
to give Long Years of Service.
The suntop Disc Plough.
Made in one-furrow and two-furrow sizes, with 28-inch Discs
for Deep Ploughing in Sugar and Corn Country. Unequalled
for Strength and Adjustability.
vSunshine Petrol Engines
Start Instantly. Run Continuously. The Simplest and Best
Engine for Farm Conditions. Sizes made —3,5, 7 and 10 h.p.
Stationary or Portable.
“Sunshine Farm Implements,” 48 pages, is
worth, having. Posted g'ratis on request.
H. V. McKAY, Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine
Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
27 George Street West, Sydney.
102 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
56 North Terrace, Adelaide.
“WATERSHED” Red Rubber Garden Hose
“ ’Tis the
Hose that
makes the
Difference.”
n
m
:k be
«|i»:
mm
m
mm
mm
m
NS
X V
* V-vJ
One of the greatest features of “ WATEKSjriJiiD” HOSE is that it is AUSTRALIAN
MADE. Only the very best materials are used, which enables us to guarantee it free from any
fault in manufacture that would be likely to cause it to burst, split, peel or kink.
In 60ft. coils, but cut to any length.
Ain. x 3-ply -/9 ft., or 30ft., complete with fittings 24/6
or 60ft., complete with fittings 45 /j)
fin. x 3-ply 1/- ft., or 30ft., .complete with fittings 32/-
or 60ft., complete with fittings 60/9
Our New Hose hist is now ready. Post free on request. Carriage extra.
“WATERSHED” HOSE is obtainable from all leading Storekeepers or direct from the
Maker,, PERDRIAB ROBBER CO. LTD.,
Australian Manufacturers of all Rubber Goods,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Also Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
POLISHES FLOORS
PERFECTLY.
fa
Shi-noleum gives a better shine in l|i Mj
less time than any other Polish—does it more economically, too. A
little goes a long way, and the effect is lasting. It does not gather
the dust and is a preservative, doubling the life of the Linoleum.
Shi-noleum is good for wood floors, furniture, tan boots, and all
leather goods.
Do not accept a substitute said to be “ just as good.” If your storekeeper cannot
supply you. send his name to the Paget Manufacturing Co., Ltd., 109 Regent
Street. Sydney, and a free sample will be sent you.
c
The CHINESE USE THIS SYMBOL
TO EXPRESS COMPLETENESS.
The perfect balance—the unbroken circle —these denote unity.... The symbol stands
for something' that is absolutely self-contained and complete.
And this brings us to the LEBLONI) LATHE:—
LKBI.OXI) 21in. Heavy Duty Single Pulley Drive.
12 SPINDLE SPEEDS INSTANTLY AVAILABLE.
The frictions are a new and very etlieient type. They are capable of transmit-
ting: five times the power that can he put through the driving lielt. Highest gear
drive, 5G to 1.
This is the most powerful design all-geared lieadstoek built.
To eliminate all idle movement we have applied an apron starting and stopping
device, in addition to the immediately available speed changes. The operator
never raises his arm above a certain operating plane.
REMOVES 45 CUBIC INCHES OF 25 P. CARBON STEEL PER MINUTE.
Diameter of Bar (5 inches
Cutting speed JO feet
Depth of cut % inch
Peed per revolution of spindle * inch
R.P.M 400
Pounds of metal removed per hour 705
CARRIED IN STOCK BY
BENSON BROTHERS, LIMITED,
Sole Agents for Australasia.,
All Classes o/ Engineers* Machine Tools StocKed.
51-53 Druitt Street,
SYDNEY.
60 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 35. Ko. 1800.
THUIiSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1914.
I’kicb 9b.
HIS MISTAKE
George William H. Rignoid Henry Hohenzollern V. had played the part at HIs Majesty's, Potsdam, to lage audiences for so many years that he forget he
was only an actor and thought he was real.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man."
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per Annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. 'The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, arid not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address i is specified and stamps are enclosed. Put
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and AVliite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
D.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., J/J/l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, D.C.; Jepson Pros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. IV. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co.; San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E.Lenehan, 585
With Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Ilandolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hono Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Kates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 160 z., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., Bioz.
to 10oz., Sid.; lOoz. to ISoz., 3d.; elsewhere, J/oz.,
Id., and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1914.
NECESSARY COMMODITIES IN NEW
SOUTH WALES.
The Holman Ministry, which sits and
borrows in Sydney, has pushed through a
“Necessary Commodities Control Act,”
which is to endure so long as the war lasts,
and any time, not exceeding six months,
after the war ends. Under this measure
a Commission is appointed with lavish
powers to fix the prices of necessary com-
modities, so far as the Government can con-
trol them. Anyone within the purview of
the Ministry who holds the goods “in
excess of his family requirement for
six months” must sell on demand at the
price fixed, or be fined anything up to £lOO.
Whether, after paying the £lOO fine, lie can
hang on to the articles and make £lOOO
profit out of them, doesn’t appear very defi-
nitely, but it is to be hoped that he can’t.
Presumably the law doesn’t apply to people
in charge of gaols, orphanages, lunatic
asylums, benevolent asylums, hospitals, and
the like; or to providores who keep victual
on hand for big lines of ships, or to man-
agers of hotels, or to squatters who ration
a large number of shearers, or to other folk
in like circumstances; for if they were sud-
denly denuded of all food except that
required to save their families alive for
half-a-year a lot of customers might go
hungry. The judgment isn’t clear on this
point, but no doubt it means well, and will
be administered with discretion. The case of
the bachelor or spinster who has no “family
requirement,” but merely his or her own
requirement, isn’t provided for ; but, again, it
is reasonable to assume that his Honor on
the bench will come to the assistance of the
ramshackle statute. It is provided that the
■ Governor may, on the recommendation of
the Commission, take a census of necessary
.commodities within the State, and seize
them, and pay for them at the rate fixed.
Apparently this applies only to local pro-
ducts. Necessary commodities include gas
(though how his Excellency will seize gas
•without also seizing the works and the
■gasometer, it is difficult to say) ; fuel of all
:sorts ; any article of food or drink for man
■or any domesticated animal (this covers
water and beer) ; and anything else which
Parliament may add to the list. Nothing is
•said about law costs, which, in the case of
the defendant, are a necessary commodity,
though they may be a mere luxury to the
plaintiff. * * *
A beginning was made by fixing the price
of wheat for the whole State at 4s. 2d. per
bushel. The price of flour was fixed at £9 10s.
per ton, and that of the 21b. loaf at 34d.
for the counties of Cumberland and North-
umberland only (the Sydney and Newcastle
districts). Why the benefit of buying bread
cheap should apply only to two counties
while the disaster of selling wheat cheap
should apply to all the counties is a
mystery, but perhaps, under the great Con-
gestion policy, the rest of the State is of no
special account. If the man who buys com-
pulsorily from the farmer at 4s. 2d. per
bushel manages to get the wheat away on
board ship his profit will be enormous, and
so will be the farmer’s loss. This arrange-
ment has made the Outback agriculturist sit
up considerably. His crops promise to be
very poor this year. In other years, when
crops were poor, prices went as high as
9s. per bushel, and as recently as 1909
they reached 4s. Old. If the remote bucolic
individual has to supply wheat to the
Sydney or Newcastle miller or exporter at
the price fixed he will realise about 3s. lOd.
for his very sparse harvest. Yet the inter-
est pn his mortgage or his overdraft doesn’t
diminish. In fact, interest has gone up.
The price of labor remains the same. The
cost of all the imported goods which he
has to buy, because the Holman crowd has
always stood and still stands for the For-
eign-trade and importing policy, is liable
to be sky-rocketed to any figure that the
foreign supplier likes to ask. The local
dealer may not be allowed to make an
exorbitant profit, but the alien dealer can
ask such famine rate as he feels inclined for.
The Holman crowd, and the crowd it repre-
sents in Federal politics, can’t regulate the
price of boots, hats, pants, waistcoats, coats,
collars, shirts, ties, millinery, medicine, steel
rails, anchovy paste, locomotives, tinned
salmon, agricultural machinery, miscellane-
ous machinery, watches, or even loans, be-
cause they have always believed in buying
these things from the foreigner at any
quotation the foreigner liked to mention.
To fix a low price would merely be a case
of cutting off the supply. The value of loans
and shirts is out of Ministerial reach. All
Holman and co. can do is to bid the local
farmer sell his wheat below current rates
while he pays increased taxes and buys
most of the necessaries he doesn’t produce
himself at war prices. Incidentally the
farmer in the wheat area has to pay in-
creased freights nowadays for the carriage
of his produce—-often for its carriage an
absurd and needless distance —to the one big
port which is to have cheap bread, though
equally serviceable ports are at his door.
And, as already mentioned (it can’t
be mentioned too often) if the first pro-
clamation under the Necessary Commodities
Control Act holds good, he is to sell his
wheat at a figure which will enable the
importer in Sydney—often the German'
importer in Sydney—to get his loaf at 3id.
At the same time he is to pay any old price for
his own loaf, as well as any old price the
(very frequently German) importer likes to
ask for many articles which should be made
here, and which would be made here but for
the lamentable Holman policy of sinking
the fiscal issue.
* .* * *
Tim N.S.W. Government has to retrench.
That is inevitable. It isn’t likely to recover
anything out of the £4 a day which it paid
to its old and tried and hostile col-
league Nielsen, when it sent him t.o
the United States to report on fowls
or bees or something of the sort, and
thus got him out of the way. But
there is reason in all things. Largely be-
cause of the Holman Government the State
of N.S.W. has to send an incredible quan-
tity of wheat and other goods to England or
other parts of Europe, to cover the interest
on its foreign debt. If it sent away wheat
now, when wheat is dear in Europe, it could
pay its interest bill with a smaller export
of grain than usual. No doubt the price of
the local loaf would rise, but if the State
tolerates a Government which borrows on
the magnificent Holman scale it must pay
the interest bill, either in extra taxes or
extra food prices—unless it proposes to file
its schedule and join the bankrupt and dis-
graced communities. The best that could
be done in N.S.W. just now would be for
the Government to constitute itself the sole
agent for the sale of wheat, and such other
local products as are in foreign demand.
Then it should let the Australian or the
foreigner have them, according to which
bids higher. The price of the Australian
loaf would certainly go up, but every time
it went up something more would be done
to meet foreign liabilities. No country can
have its loaf, and eat it, and also borrow it,
if it proposes to remain honest. Of course
no one can tell whether the Holman-
McGowen gang proposes to remain honest
—in the political sense.
[James Ehmond, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
THE NEXT LOT OF STATISTICS.
“O. C. Cabot” holds forth
As a regular reader of light and sensational litera-
ture, such as the Year Book of the Commonwealth,
Whitaker’s Almanack, Hazel’s Annual and the
Statesman’s Year Book —not to speak of a dozen or
two less-known but still handy publications issued by
sundry Governments; also by news people and various
corporations, institutions, private firms and indivi-
duals—l view with alarm the coming end-of-the-year
issues of • Australian, British and general statistics.
Ye gods! What a stocktaking this year of Destiny
(1914) is about to see taken! What a field for con-
jecture, surmise, estimate and assumption is opened
up! What opportunities for prophecy! Myself, I
rather boggle at the task, and it is one that should
appeal with especial force to figure-eating fiends like
the worthy and erudite “Henry Horsecollar” and
the Tamer of Savage Felines.
* * * *
In the first place, what are known as Vital
Statistics (I presume to differentiate them from mere
Killed Statistics) will undergo remarkable desquama-
tion, at the very least, in France, Belgium, Servia,
Germany and Austria. The Birth, Marriage and Death
rate will not be so quickly apparent, or so
violent, in Britain and Russia as they will
be in other countries affected. The Death
Rates of the embattled Powers will (neces-
sarily) receive the biggest boosting since the Black
Death last ravaged Europe. Not alone to men in
battle does death come, as Carlyle translated a great
phrase from Goethe : “Happy is he whom Death finds
in battle’s splendor.’* Far and wide beyond the
immediate clashes the rodent ulcer of war eats up
life wholesale. Grief, suspense, wrath and even joy
will take their tell of weak hearts and enervated con-
stitutions. I fear that the next lot of arithmetic will
show strange and formidable increases in deaths all
over Europe.
* * * *
The Marriage Rate will fall amazingly. Millions of
quite eligible young men are desperately endeavoring
to make marriage an impossibility by sending one
another to the land where it has been stated there is
neither marriage nor giving in marriage. At the same
time, the number of eligible and more or less desir-
able girls will not decrease. Unless the immemorial
institution of polygamy is legalised in certain parts
of Europe, the only institution that will benefit by
the war is the Oldest Profession in the World. Sup-
posing (a very moderate supposition, believe me)
before things are tidied up and the world has gone
back in a clean pinafore to its Sunday-school, say
1,000,000 “eligible” and 1,000,000 annexed males
have been wiped off the face of what the Yankees call
“effete old Yurope” (effete, my godfather!). What is
to become of 1,000,000 nice girls—not to forget the
million hopeful existent widows, and the other million
prospective million widows which the war will pro-
bably make—those who will have nobody to marry
them! These girls cannot be drowned, or deported to
Mars, or even put into the drapery or typewriting
line, because the means of earning an honest living
will be circumscribed. Emigrate! Oh, yes ; but the
competition for husbands is already pretty strenuous
in almost any country to which the girls could emi-
grate. The sex question is going to get a big lift
after the fighting has all been done.
* * * •
Britain has 1,000,000 surplus women now, and, con-
sequently, Britain suffers badly from petticoat gov-
ernment (at any rate, in peace time) and from suffra-
gitis. France, in common with all the old settled
countries in which war and its sequels have had their
abiding place for generations, has a very considerable
preponderance of females—not so great as in Britain,
because the emigration of French men is unimportant,
whereas Britain has sent abroad an average of
200,000 the last 20 years. Last year given (1912)
shows a total emigration of 467,666, of whom quite
half would be young men. Yet France will soon have
the Superfluous Woman forced on its attention. Ditto
Germany, Austria and Belgium. Russia is so big that
two or three hundred thousand extra women will not
be noticed.-
The Birth Rate (good old annual!) will be affected,
too. It is claimed by people with pretentions to know
that, during war time and for some years after the
restoration of peace, there is always a rise in the
number of male babies born. It seems to be a psycho-
logical reaction or a physiological condition, or some-
thing like that—a sort of inversion of pre-natal im-
pressions. But I’ll get off the thin ice to say that
the next —and the next and the several more next—
following lots of statistics, while certainly showing a
big increase in what are. called Illegitimate births,
will have the ideal opportunity of either confirming,
or confuting, the “more males” theory. Spread over
so huge a field, and embracing so many and diverse
peoples, the birth-rate statistics, after this terrific
war, ought to settle the existence of this mystery of
the determination of sex, even if it doesn’t tell us
why the thing should be —if it be.
In certain other directions the next lot of statistics
will be interesting—also the next and the next. The
delightful columns in the Statistical Register and
other thrilling works of the kind, which tell us how
much coke Britain sends to Portugal, and how much
fluff Germany sends to Australia, every year, will be
found to have lost whole armies of figures. The great
upward curves of Imports and Exports will swoop
down like a crippled aeroplane. On the other hand,
the expenditure tables of the warring Powers will be
something stimulating to the imagination. Germany,
in particular, will erect a series of £ s. d. sky-
scrapers, which will probably run right off the top of
the page. The new naval and military estimates, and
the respective fleets and armies, of the Powers, will
take a bit of remembering. Gaps and alterations of
considerable importance will probably be observed in
lists of ships and regiments, and the commercial
marine figures of at leait two Powers will be largely
recast. AVho’s Who and other biographical authorities
will hardly know themselves in their 1915 or 1916
editions. As for production and prices, crop-areas
and yields, manufactures and industries, earnings and
so forth —in these matters we shall have to get down
the ladder and to the bottom of the cellar to find the
new figures. One melancholy consolation emerges
from the disordered groups of Facts and Figures That
Were Emptied Out. Australia’s, and particularly the
Ma State’s, loan expenditure has reached its zenith.
Even Holman won’t be able to borrow £30,000,000
in the next four years. There were only two things
that could have stopped Ma’s Labor Government from
pawning Ma for ever and ever. One was this war ;
the other Judgment Day. It Was the war that came
first.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Mouldy Divorce Law.
While there may be a difference of opinion
among judges find lawyers about the sound-
ness of the N.S.W. Full Court majority
decision in Fremlin v. Fremlin, there
certainly exists little doubt as to this now
leading case being the cause of very great
hardship. Fremlin -v. Fremlin sits heavily
on the shoulders of Gordon, the judicial
referee on applications for decrees nisi and
orders for restitution of conjugal rights.
Whenever the question of domicile crops up
in controversial iotm his Honor wearily
“follows the finding in Fremlin v. Frem-
lin,” and decides accordingly—always with
regret that this legal Ark of the Covenant
should govern the situation. In Fremlin
v. Fremlin the higher Court split hairs with
great dexterity between “actual domicile”
and “domicile of choice,” with the result
that, nowadays, though a person may have
lived for several years in the State, it is
necessary for the applicant to prove that
the aforesaid person, if a party to divorce
proceedings, had actually from choice
adopted New South Wales as a place of
permanent domicile. A case which exhibited
the archaic, mischievous character of law
like this came before Gordon quite recently.
In 1908 a man arrived in New South Wales,
allegedly from England. Shortly after
arrival he married an Australian girl, and
lived with her in various parts of N.S.W.
and South Aus. until 1911. Then he bolted
• —back, it is presumed, to where the stately
homes are. Three years having elapsed, the
wife applied for divorce on the ground of
desertion. Gordon listened to the evidence.
All the facts were in order but one. “Prove
domicile,” said Gordon to the Wig for the
girl. Just there the Wig collapsed, as no
one was ready to make affidavit that the
levanting husband had proclaimed his inten-
tion to become an Australian and live per-
manently in the Ma State. The Court had
to turn to Fremlin v. Fremlin and declare
that the wife-deserting Englishman—if he
was one—had not lost Tooting or Peckham
Rye as his “permanent domicile.” The case
was a particularly glaring one in which a
cadging, glib-tongued waster had wronged a
girl in the grossest possible way, yet under
a fatuous Cornstalk precedent she finds
herself matrimonially tied up for the rest of
her life —a wife without a husband. Gordon
saw this and said so, but though there was
positive evidence .of callous desertion, the
man’s residence in the Commonwealth for
three years could not be held, in the light of
Fremlin v. Fremlin, to establish the
woman’s right to relief. Nothing could very
well be more absurd than this, and the
incident is herewith handed up as an ex-
hibit for the attention of any politician with
sufficient force to secure an amendment of
the law. . Surely if a man is sufficiently
domiciled in Australia to be married there
he should also be sufficiently domiciled to
be divorced there! If Fremlin v. Fremlin
is to hold good let it hold good all round,
and let the domicile question be settled
before the wedding.
-»
Some Alleged Inner History of the War.
The impression that the Kaiser of Germany
is mad, and that his old, whiskered ally at
Vienna deserves a lot of sympathy, is
strengthened by the publication, on the
authority of the recent British Ambassador
at Vienna, of certain documents concerning
the early stages of the present trouble. The-
heir to the Austrian Empire and his wife-
were murdered .by Servians in Austrian!
territory—that is to say, they were mur-
dered in Bosnia, and the Bosnians are Slavs:
of a sort, whose country was occupied by
Austria in 1878, and formally annexed ini
1908. (Austria has done wonderfully good;
work in Bosnia, but the old racial differences
always prevented it becoming really popu-
lar.) The tired old man at Vienna
demanded an impossible amount of apology
and abasement from Servia, for the deeds of
its subjects and for its general aspect of hos-
tility. Failing to get all the apology he
wanted, war began. But the war wasn’t
pushed very hard, and the business may
have only been an effort on the part of
Austria to save its face. Then the Czar
started to collect his armies. He had also
to save his face, because his subjects
wouldn’t stand the spectacle of a small Slav
nation being trodden under foot by the Teu-
ton. Austria, by way of reply, started to
collect armies to oppose the Czar. Still it
seems that both the man at Vienna and the
man at Petrograd were only making suffi-
cient show to pacify their subjects. Despite
the appearance of hostility the two Govern-
ments were in friendly negotiation. Russia
was acting as mediator, and its business was
to. arrange things so that Austria, while
still declaring that it could wipe up the uni-
verse with Servia, was to let that truculent
little State off easily out of its love for the
Czar. And. on the other hand, Servia, with-
out admitting that it was afraid of its big
enemy, was to back down considerably, in
order to oblige its friend the Czar. That
sort of friendly and hypocritical arrangement
is where the mediator comes in. He may be
big or small, but he must be affable and he
must mediate. It isn’t wholly impossible
that, supposing Britain and the United
States drifted by accident into a position
which made war seem inevitable, they might
drift out again because some small State,
which wouldn’t amount to a row of pins in
an actual scuffle, tendered its good offices
and asked that, out of love for it, the parties
should split the difference. But in the
middle of the mediation, when Russian and
Austrian diplomatists were drinking and
smoking together, in a good-humored fashion,
came Kaiser William’s order that Russia
must cease its pretence of warlike prepara-
tions, or there would be immortal smash.
He issued a similar order in 1909 and carried
his point. But this time the Muscovite saw
red, and refused to be kicked twice without
cause in the same place. And thereupon*
the lid blew off the top of Sheol. For ill-.
regulated friendship, for a mistimed backing;
of a friend who was attending in a fairly
successful fashion to his own business, and!
for muddled diplomacy, Kaiser William
seems to hold the world’s record just now.
♦
A Blessed Curse. '
Socialism is getting the advertisement of a
lifetime these days. Prices are being fixed
right and. left. The law of supply and
demand is being flouted everywhere.
A Sydney anti-Socialist was permitted to
write unrebuked to an anti-Socialistic daily
paper last week, pointing out that Germany,
in the present war, had the “immense ad-
vantage” of Socialistic railways—as against
France’s privately-owned ones —and he was
suffered, further, to state that Socialistic
railways were the only sort for Australia,,
whether from an industrial or a tactical"
standpoint. . Australia was first affected by
the convulsion in Europe in the matter of
its commerce. Had the action of the-
British insurance companies in holding;
up the exporting and importing busi-
ness of the country by means of a
preposterously high rate, not been cor-
rected by a Socialistic scheme on the
part of the Asquith Government, trade
would have fallen dead locally. And an insti-
tution that looks like being most beneficial of
all —namely, the Commonwealth, note
issue—-is a further example. According
to its opponents of a year or so back, it
represented Revolutionary Socialism of a
Wild Cat Nature. There are indications
that the note issue has already prevented the
bottom falling through trade in several direc-
tions. For one thing, it operated, without
a doubt, to loosen money which promised to
become perilously tight, by adding to the
confidence of the banks. The Cook Gov-
ernment —whose members, humorously
enough, had been the loudest assailants of
“.Fisher’s flimsies”—found itself in a posi-
tion to offer the banks £3 legal tender for
every sovereign which they deposited in the
Treasury, and to offer the States £4 legal
tender for every £1 so deposited. The paper
money offered to these institutions is as safe
as all Australia. No great use has befn
made of the Government’s offer, so far.
Things have not become sufficiently serious.
Still, £2,000,000 more notes had been called
for by the end of the war-month than were


demanded during, the previous month. And
the more resolutely the Kaiser holds his end
up, and the more distant, in consequence, the
finish of the pi’esent trouble appears, the
greater must be the demand for the “flim-
sies.” Their issue in greater and greater
numbers can only do good. The banks and
States are required to pay for the difference
between the legal tender supplied to them
and the gold deposited in the Treasury, at
the rate of 4 per cent. From this source the
Commonwealth will presently derive revenue
which should help usefully to balance the
fading Customs income. The S. M. Herald
observed very truly (19/9/’l4) :
“Very sorry, madam, but the war has cut off our
supplies.” This excuse will be heard many times in
the months in front of us.
In those days the Menace of Socialism
should do a lot to pay the wages of
public servants, find the necessary money for
defence purposes, and so on. The States
will benefit, inasmuch as they will be in a
position to get money at 4 per cent., free
from either discount or agents’ or brokers’
commission—a feat that they would have
found impossible before the war. The banks
will get money at 4 per cent., which they
will be able to retail at 5 or G per cent., and
so not only keep the present industries of the
country above water, but, perchance, help to
start fresh ones. Taking one thing with
another, it looks as though Socialism —the
alleged Curse of the past eight or nine years
—is a calamity in masquerade.
[John Bede Dalley, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
The Seizure of the Wheat.
Shortly before this item was written the
New South : Wales Government seized
142.000 bags of wheat which were awaiting
export at Darling Harbor,' Sydney. It
grabbed all this multitude of food lest the
people of the State should go hungry.
According to law, it can pay for the .pro-
vender at the rate of 4s. 2d. per bushel, less
cost of seizure, though the holders bought
some of it from the Australian farmer at a
higher figure, and had a prospect of selling
it to the hungry folk of England at a higher
figure. Certain of the wheat-dealers
belong to New South Wales, and some of
them belong to other States, but they all
go the same road. No one is likely to feel
any great sympathy for the wheat specu-
lator. He isn’t a producer, and he is of
little use to the community. Still he stands
for Commerce, and, under the semi-Freetrade
tariff of Australia, Commerce is the visible
embodiment of national greatness. He is
the man who hustles our raw material to
foreign markets, and the whole doctrine of
the Freetrader and the Revenue-tariffist is
that it is Australia’s business to dig out raw
material and sell it to the person outside,
partly to pay for manufactured goods which
we are allegedly too humble and ignorant to
turn out ourselves, and partly to pay the
interest on the wonderful and blessed for-
eign loan, which is described as “the intro-
duction of capital to develop the great
natural resources of the country.” No
matter to whom the wheat belonged at the
moment of seizure—whether it was the pro-
perty of the farmer or of the man who had
bought it from the farmer—it represented
“the great natural resources of the coun-
try,” for the development of which so many
scores of millions have been borrowed. And
there is a vague idea that somehow the
boasted loan and import policy has broken
down. The one excuse for Australia’s low
tariff, and for the fact that it imports more
manufactured goods in proportion to its
population than any other country on earth, -
is that it is a great producer of raw material.
The one excuse for the fact: that, in pro-
portion to population, it borrows more
money abroad than any other country on
earth, is that the loan money is used to
make improvements which will lead to the
abundant production of raw material. To-
day, despite the war, there is 'probably no
greater cull for Australian grain than usual
(and if there Avas a greater call we should
be filled with joy thereat). Britain wants
just about the ordinary quantity. Bel-
gium and Northern France want more, be-
cause the contending armies have trodden
their harvests into the mud. On the other
hand, export to Germany and Austria is
prohibited.. Setting one thing against the
other, the demand for Australian victual is
just about the same as ordinary, though
the prices which the victual would fetch in .
the same old markets is higher than usual.
This ought to be Australia’s opportunity.
The community ought to throw its hat into
the welkin and say that the time was ripe
at last Yet at the first time of asking—or
at least the first serious time of asking—the
policy of importing manufactured goods, and
repressing immigration, and keeping down
population, and making the greater part of
the country a wilderness so that the people '
may be congested into a few big cities, and
floating huge loans in Europe, and depending
on the production of raw material, seems
to have fallen in. The Ma State of Aus-
tralia—the one which is most devoted to
Freetrade and foreign loans —has delibe-
rately stopped the supply of food to
Great Britain and to Britain’s hard-pressed
allies. It has decided that the time when
wheat will bring in a lot of money is just
the time when it can’t supply wheat. How
it expects to pay the interest on its foreign
debts with raw material if it refuses to ;
supply raw material when the market is
most favorable no one can say. Possibly the
importing and borrowing and boom and
burst policy is only fitted for davs of calm.
It mav be the rotten gun which explodes
when it is most wanted.
[James Edmond, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
— : «.
A Document Found in the Post.
Suggested letter of introduction to accom-
pany the Australian troops to England ;
Dear Mother, —
With these few lines I am sending you 20,000 of
my sons to help you in your troubles. It -is the
least I can do. For I now confess to you with shame
and remorse that I have been largely responsible for
making those troubles so great.’
Many years ago you set me up in this home, and
bade me gather round me a nation of stalwart sons
and lithe daughters, that you might be strong in my
strength. The home was all that could be desired
for the purpose. There were millions of acres •of
untilled land capable of growing every plant that
man needs; there were mines with a greater variety
of ores than those of any other country in the world;
there were forests of timbers in extraordinary variety.
But in my simpleness I fell into the hands of bad
advisers —Freetraders and the like —who induced me,
instead of using these things to provide work for my
own sons, to ship the raw products to foreign ports.
So I grew wheat for foreign mills, and wool for
foreign looms, and I sent .the ores to foreign
furnaces.
Germany, which was your declared rival and your
half-declared enemy, was aiming at great nation-
hood; too. I helped it in its struggle. It could never
have been formidable without foundries and forg<es
and great engineering enterprises. Out of my re-
markable stores .of metals I provided it with the
raw material which it needed. Misguided by my bad
advisers, who talked of the glories of Foreign Trade,
I even permitted it. to smelt my ores, thus giving to
its sons the work which my own should have had.
With shame I confess that I did still.more to put
bitterness into your cup, for I bought from your rival
the goods manufactured, out of my own raw material.
To provide myself with .implements of peace I sup-
plied your enemy with money to provide himself
with implements of war.
And I confess this with the more humiliation
because all the time there were a faithful few who
implored me to lift myself to the nationhood to which
1 was lifting your enemy. My bad advisers whis-
pered into my ear that these faithful few were dis-
loyal, and I believed them. What I have done I
cannot undo. I have made your enemy great; I have
given to him the strength which should have been
mine, and, through 'me, yours.
All that is now left me is to take a new path, with
my eyes onened and my energies renewed.
Meanwhile, I send you these, my 20,000 sons, as
an expiatory force, with mingled pride and shame—
pride, that in spirit they are so great; shame, that in
numbers they are so small; pride, that they have
responded so keenly to my call; shame, that I have
made their work and yours so formidable. Receive
them well, and if you would do honor to me and
them confide in them to do all that flesh and blood
can do; and, believe me to remain,
Your wayward but repentant daughter,
AUSTRALIA. •
P.S.—My love to your friends. Tell them that if.
unhappily, their own homes be broken, there is room
in my house for many of them.
[S. H. Prior, 214 George-street, Sydney.]'
The “Daily Bloodstain” and the Wai*.
If the Censor’s department wanted to do
some immediate good to the community it
would slay at birth about 95 per cent, of
our German atrocity cables. They do no
good to anyone except the Germans. The
Germans score because the inevitable effect
of these horrifying messages must be to dis-
courage recruiting—the average man being
willing enough to fight ordinary human
beings, but disinclined to face soldiers who
are represented to him, by reputable news-
papers, as wild animals. The people who
get joy out of such stuff are the sort who
would gloat over the victim of a train acci-
dent. If the gratification of their unpleas-
ant tastes harmed only them it would not
matter so much, but the fact is it reacts on
the whole community. Nothing is worse
for the national mind than that it should
be encouraged to revel in the morbid and
the horrible. And, in any case, about three-
parts of the appalling stories which are
served up, day by day, are self-evident lies.
A sensation was created a week or so ago
by the intimation that a cat-o’-nine-tails had
been found in the cabin of every officer on
board a German cruiser—the object of the
weapon being to flog the reluctant mariners
to their duties. It now turns out that the
cat-o’-nine-tails were clothes-brushes. One
Grace Hume,, of Dumfries (Scotland), a
nurse, was said to have been hideously
mutilated and to have died from the shock.
The next day it was announced casually that
the story was “a hoax.” About the same
time there appeared a yarn about a train-
load of dead bodies, “stacked one on top of
the other like frozen meat,” which had
arrived at some unspecified station, “causing
many of the passengers on the platform to
faint with horror.” No contradiction of the
above had arrived up to the time of writing,
but it seems improbable that any nation
should be sending its corpses for railway
rides, in view of the necessaries that have to
be shifted from place to place to meet the
requirements of the living. A typical Ger-
man atrocity yarn was that which the morn-
ing papers printed (17/9/T4) on the sub-
ject of the small boy who was found giving
a wounded French sergeant a drink, and was
handed a rifle by a German captain and told
to present his injured friend with a bullet
instead. The story being of the purest
Deadwood Dick brand, the lad, of course,
shot the idiot captain dead, and was himself
instantly “riddled with bayonets and bullets.”
The harm that the retailment of all this
gory rot does in the way of terrorising the
credulous and inflaming their minds against
inoffensive local Germans, needs no demon-
stration. And then there is the other sort
of lie, equally futile, though more innocuous.
For weeks a Russian force, estimated vari-
ously at from 75,000 to 250,000 men, was
reported to have arrived at Ostend from
England. It has now been established,
definitely, that, up to the end of last week,
no such force had landed in Belgium. The
German Crown Prince has been listed
amongst the dead on 11 different occasions
during the last month. Also, General von
Kluck was represented, on Thursday last,
as having surrendered to some unnamed
General, with 250,000 men. On the follow-
ing Friday the papers remarked blandly that
the captured von Kluck had made “an
effective resistance” on the German right,
and enabled the slain Crown Prince to
escape with his army, from an awkward posi-
tion on the Verdun-to-Toul line. An even-
ing paper gave a list of wounded Sydneyites,
with portraits of the more prominent vic-
tims, and it transpired the next day that
the names on the list were merely those of
young men who had recently joined the
colors. And so one might proceed for a
nage or two. The point which this panel-
takes is that in the above matter the public
has a right to protection. The blood-lover is
merely a joke, or, at worst, a nuisance, in
time of peace. When a great war is raging
he begins to be a public menace. If the
Federal censors can’t discriminate between
the reasonably probable and the utterly pre-
posterous. and if they aren’t in a state of
mind to judge as to what is news and what
is faked bellowdrama,, it is up to the State
Governments to take a hand. The Federal
censor business seems to be a jest.
About “Prizesj”
The Australian business men. who had ship-
ments of European fluff and sundries in Ger-
man “prizes” have bumped against a whole
mob of difficulties. If an unsuspecting Ger-
man steamer rolled into Hobson’s Bay after
the war started it was, of course, seized and
held as a prize. Now,- the la\v is that such
a vessel, entering ; a port without knowledge
of the war, must be handed back to the own-
ers at -that port when the trouble is over.
The difficulty was that, in practically every
case, the bulk of the cargo was not for the
port at which the seizure was made. In most
cases the ship’s agents were quite willing
that the vessel should continue its voyage
from (say) Melbourne to Sydney for the dis-
charge of the before-mentioned fluff and sun-
dries, and they were quite willing to take
delivery of the vessel at the latter port. But
the law, which has elaborate provisions for
seizing a vessel, has none at all for releasing
it while the war lasts. Consequently if a
ship were taken on from Melbourne to Syd-
ney, Melbourne didn’t know what would
happen to it if, having made a seizure, it
couldn’t hand the property back after the
war. In the end the Victorian Court decided
to chance it, and permitted some of tbe
vessels to continue their voyage round the
coast with prize crews, the ship’s own crews
being sent overland. One curious result is
that, should a “nrize” be lost on the way
round, the Australian Government would have
to pay up the value of the ship to the
enemy as soon as he formally ceases to be
an enemy. In fact, one counsel advises that
though the steamer is nominally a “prize,”
and therefore out of .the hands of its owners,
the. latter may have to be compensated for
the use of the vessel in bringing the cargo
on, notwithstanding that the consignees have
alrgadv naid them for the, same job. As
regards German ships which left port after
war was declared, and were subsequently
captured, there is, of course, no difficulty—
they are real nrizes. which don’t have to be
banded back, but belong to the country which
captures them. Formerly the money realised
on their sale was cut up among the officers
and crew which did the capturing. Nowa-
days there is none of this buccaneering, and
the money goes to the Government.
Deab Bulletin—The Hatters’ Union has
just secured an award from the Common-
wealth Arbitration Court, and in my opinion
it serves_ the Hatters—-so far, at least, as
N.S.W. is concerned—darned well right.
The _ position _in N.S.W. is remarkable.
Hatting is a highly skilled business, and the
N.S.W. men who make that which covers
the cranium or dome of thought have formed
a close union. It is so close that it is able
to demand £2O entrance fee from a local man
and as much as £4O from a new-comer. And
no Hatter has much chance to Hat unless
he is a member of the union. There is a
duty on imported hats, but while there is a
trades-union duty of from £2O to £4O on
local hatters it requires a mighty large duty
on imported hats to give the local hatter a
chance. So the country has very few hatters
to swell the population, and pay taxes, and
carry the burden of the wonderful Public
Debt, and put up a fight for this White
Man’s Land when it is threatened. As for
the imported hats, they may be madeby
cheap labor,_ by niggers, by non-unionists,
or by unionists who only pay Is. entrance
fee. No local unionist cares. Consequently
imported hats come in by myriads, and the’
foreign loans which help to pay for them,
are charged to posterity. It is a lament-
able fact that the Australian trades-unionist
—or at least the N.S.W. trades-unionist—
seems to be against Australian labor most;
of the time. —Yours, etc., H.
Religion—or perhaps it is beer or manure—
breaks out in strange places during war-
time. According to Louise Mack, one-time-
of Tile Bulletin, and mow wandering,
through the quieter parts of Belgium as.
correspondent for a London evening paper,,
the Germans who occupied Aerschot left:
behind them their protest against the errors:
and superstitions of Rome, in the form of'
empty bottles in the cathedral. There were-
bottles on the altar, bottles in the pews,,
bottles in the confessionals, and the offer-
tory box was replaced by a bottle. Some-
annoyance was done to the decorations, and! ‘
a dead pig and some fertiliser were left in
the chapel, but most of the protest con-
sisted of bottles. Presumably the soldiers
who did this were Protestants from Northern
Germany. A Roman Catholic soldier from
Bavaria would have been more likely to
assert his religious convictions by deposit-
ing decayed vegetables and left-off fish and
ancient tripe in a Protestant church. It
doesn’t appear that the cash damage done
to the cathedral at Aerschot was very
great, but the expression of opinion
was unmistakable. The idea is by no means
new. Even such a big man as Gabi-
bat.di occasionally stabled his horses in
cathedrals, and left horse-refuse on the
altars, in order to bring the Papal authority
into contempt, and this mixing of business
wdth pleasure made him less of a success
than a warrior of his talents should have
been.
«.
Anotheb verse of the Freetrade Song of
the Shirt, from London Obsebveb
(23/7/T4) :
To a mass meeting, convened by the National
Federation of Women Workers, in Southwark Park,
yesterday, Miss Mary MacArthur quoted cases show-
ing the fines and deductions to which women workers
were liable. For being five minutes late a collar
ironer, whose proper wages were sd. a dozen, was
paid 4d. a dozen, her fine totalling 3s. 6d. Her wages
were something like 3d. an hour, whilst the fine
worked out at £5 an hour. In another case a woman,
after doing 83 gross of pins, was entitled to Is. 9Jd.
After deductions she received 3id. Another speaker
said they had had enough of being fined 4d. for
letting a person go out of a shop without buying
anything, 2d. for laughing at the dinner table and
3d. for being late in the morning.
There is room for a war in London. The
Kaiser’s soldier may be a kicked and abused
worm, but the London shop-girl is no better.
c-
“Blaci-c Swan” : Here be some figures,
taken from the official statement of receipts
and expenditure of W.A. for the month of
August. They refer to Cheery John Scad-
dan’s trading enterprises, and they explain,
in part, the deficit which comes once a month
as regularly as the moon:—
Expen-.
, - Income. diture.
State steamships .. .. .. £7,171 £7959
State hotels 2,921 3187
State implement works . . . . 3,068 8442
State brickworks . . .. 34 not known
State quarries .. . . .. 144
State sawmills .. .. .. 13,771 ’’
The expenditure on account of the last three
adventures is lumped somewhere under
“other public services,” or appears as our
old friend “etc:” The State butchery is still
retailing chops, steaks and sausages, but the-
accounts give no whisper about it. The State-
tramway income is given, as £9112,' but the-
expenditure is too ill to be allowed out alone,
so it is put to bed with the £132,209 of the-
“ Railways and Tramways.” State Enter-
prise is a great thing provided it is run as:
enterprise. When it becomes a mere adver-
tisement and a method of finding well-paid!
billets for supporters it is no better than
Ebnest Tebaii Hooley’s wild cats or
Baron Gbant’s Emma silver mine.
“Q. Lees”: The suggestion that the N.S.W.
Government should spend some of its im-
ported cash in financing miners and other
workers thrown out of employment to pro-
spect the known mineral belts of the State,
has many points ahead of sand shifting, for
instance, to recommend .it. But in. my
opinion what is wanted as badly as the open-
ing up of new fields is the protec-
tion and encouragement of those already
discovered in the way of an effective and
uniform company law The Ma State has
been the hunting ground.of the professional
mining shark and bogus company promoter,
men who would not know a gold mine or any
other mine, for that matter, from a railway
cutting. A return showing the number of
companies formed and the capital subscribed
of recent years in Sydney alone, ostensibly
for developing gold-mining propositions, and
the actual amount of capital really expended
on the purpose for which it was intended,
would provide reading for the long night&.
Peddling Round the World.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When at first in foreign parts
Was her flag unfurled,
England was a Gipsy lass
Peddling round the world.
Sailing on the Spanish Main —
Everywhere you roam —
Peddling in the Persiah Gulf
Things she’d made at home.
Peddling round the world,
Peddling round the world—
England was a Gipsy lass
Peddling round the world.
England never wanted war,
Not on land or sea —
Other nations rising up
Couldn’t let her be.
England only wanted peace,
And the ocean’s breath ;
So there came, in course of time,
Queen Elizabeth.
Queen Elizabeth —
Queen Elizabeth—
Came a plain, bad-tempered queen,
Called Elizabeth.
Queen Elizabeth, she called
Drake, and Raleigh too —
Essex, Howard and the rest
Of the pirate crew;
“See what you can do,” she said.
“England’s feeling sick —
If you don’t, I’ll hang you all!
Better do it quick.”
“Better do it quick,” she said—
“ Better do it quick” ;
And they knew she’d keep her word,
So they did it quick.
Drake and Raleigh sailed away—
(Only Bess they feared)
Cleared the Spanish Main and singed
The King of Spain his beard—
Singed the King of Spain his beard,
And his hair they curled.
England was a Gipsy’s love
Peddling round the world.
Peddling round the world,
Peddling round the world,
England was a Gipsy’s love,
Peddling round the world.
Once again, when Cromwell came,
England wanted room ;
So he lowered Holland’s tone,
Smashed the Dutchman’s broom.
Sent a message to Algiers ;
Made its meaning plain—
On the way they called once more
On the King of Spain.
On the King of Spain—
On the King of Spain :
Called, to jog his memory,
On the King of Spain.
So the years went round and round,
Over hills and flats—
England was a Gipsy wife—
England had her brats ;
Peddling in the China Sea,
Far from English ground;
Doing biz with Mrs. Jap—
Peddling all around.
Peddling all around—
Peddling all around :
Making friends with Mts. Jap—
Peddling all around.
* * .* .
When the war is past and gone,
With its blood and tears; • *•
And the world may count upon
Peace for fifty years—
When the gory battle flags
Round their sticks are furled—
Then you’ll see a Gipsy crone
Peddling round the world.
Shawl as old as Joseph’s coat,
Hair as white as snow,
Mind as bright as Seventeen—
Eyes still like the sloe—
Peddling in the Southern Seas —
Everywhere you roam—
And she’ll fill her baskets here
WPh things we’ll make at home.
Things we’ll make at home—
Things WE’ED make at home—
CaP to fill her baskets here
With things we’ll make at HOME.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


Hotel Steyne,
Manly Beach, N.S.W.
Facing the Pacific Ocean.
THE BRIGHTON OF AUSTRALIA.
SURF-BATHING RIGHT IN
FRONT OF THE HOTEL.
Excellent Golf Links in Close Proximity.
Hot Salt Water Baths Adjacent.
TERMS—From 11/6 Day;
£3 10s. Week.
Magnanimity and Mercy are the tests of
Greatness. Without these no nation can be
really great. And greatness is always at its
best after genial counsel with King George
IV. —the topnotch Scotch.*
SPECIALIST EXPLAINS CAUSE OF
STOMACH TROUBLE.
VALUABLE ADVICE TO SUFFERERS.
“There are many different forms of stomach
trouble,” said a well-known specialist re-
cently, “but practically all are traceable to
excessive acidity and food fermentation. That
is why the results obtained from the use of
drugs are usually so disappointing. Admit-
ting fermentation and consequent acidity of
the food contents to be the underlying cause
of most forms of indigestion, it naturally
follows that the use of a reliable antacid,
such as the pure bisurated magnesia which is
so frequently prescribed by physicians, will
produce better results than any known drug
or combination of drugs. Accordingly I
almost invariably advise those who complain
of digestive trouble to get some bisurated
magnesia (note the name carefully, as other
forms are unsuitable for this purpose) froxn
their chemist, and take half a teaspoonful of
the powder, or two 5-grain compressed tab-
lets, with a little water after meals. This, by
immediately neutralising the acid and stop-
ping the fermentation, removes the cause of
all the trouble and ensures normal and
healthy digestion.”*
next winter. Many a genuine prospector
with a likely show has had his chances ruined
by being unfortunate enough to fall into the
hands of wildcat men. That such an im-
portant industry as mining should be allowed
to drift into the hands of these commercial
baby-farmers is a national deadly sin.
The German Bogey.
The story of “0.K.”: —
What was the strength of Germany’s menace to
Europe? The modern German Empire, never put to
the war test until now, was founded on Prussian
military successes. This is Prussia’s record in big
campaigns for the past 100 years. On October 0,
1806, it declared war against France. Eight days
later its armies were smashed at Jena and Aner-
stadt, and the State, for the time, had no more fight
left in it. Fortresses surrendered and masses of troops
laid down their arms as soon as Napoleon or one of
his generals blew his nose at them. The kingdom
collapsed disgracefully. Afterwards in 1813-15
Prussia fought stubbornly enough in company with
Russia, Austria, Britain and the rest of the anti-
Napoleon Powers; but this was when Napoleon
had spent his strength in the march to Moscow and
back. Fifty more years elapsed ere Prussia again
tried warfare on a large scale, for the events of
1864, when Prussia and Austria sat on Denmark,
hardly count. The job proved fairly easy. In June,
1866, the Prussians, armed with the new “needle
gun” (the best weapon of the moment) invaded
Austria. On July 3 they went through the inflated
Austrians at Sadowa, and on July 22 the armistice
was signed. Prussia had the assistance of several
North German States, and Italy attacked Austria in
the rear. It was smashed on sea at Lissa and on
land at Custozza ; still it made some sort of a
diversion. The period of actual hard fighting had
been so brief that the campaign was called the Six
Weeks War.
Then, in 1870-71, came the crowning glory of
Prussian militarism. The war began on August 2,
1870, when the well-organised Prussians and their
allies met the unorganised, ill-fed French army at
Saarbruck. On September 1 came the Battle of
Sedan, with the surrender of poor old incurably-
diseased Louis Napoleon and 80,000 troops. The
French were hopelessly beaten, and the Empire
changed to a Republic within a month of “time”
being called. Before the end of October the great
garrison of Metz capitulated, and on January 28,
1871, the siege of Paris by the Prussians and allies
had ended in an armistice. The mixed host occupied
all the forts around the city.
In both of these short, sharp wars—with Austria
and with France —the Prussians paid an awful
number of lives for their victory in one decisive
battle. Their docility and discipline in stolid
attack were proved as far as one protracted fight
went, but their capacity for obstinate defence was
never tested at all. They gave the world no good
reason to assume that they would fight under diffi-
culties any better than they did at Jena. Their
doggedness has yet to be proved. Their tempera-
mental fitness for playing the uphill game in an
optimistic manner as the Spaniards played it at
Sarragossa is very questionable. It is one thing
to be patient, steady and industrious in peaceful
business, and another thing to be patient, cheerful
and pertinaciously combative in a long war when
the luck is out.
The Prussians, presumably, are the most stub-
bornly combative of the German races, seeing that
they pushed their way to the front and formed the
present Empire. Yet Prussians in the past, except
when Frederick the Great drove them into action,
have been as quick to “take the knock” as their
arrogant relatives, the Austrians. Their history
gives them no claim to be credited with the com-
plex characteristic called “pluck.” They may roll
up like sheep to the slaughter and still lack the
individual prowess which preserves huge masses of
soldiery from becoming utterly routed when they
are worsted.
The swanking German plans of campaign don’t
appear to be inspired with confidence in the innate
courage of the men. In the Kaiser’s invasion of
France the armies were marched along in close for-
mation, with extravagantly heavy artillery support.
Ammunition was so squandered in reckless attempts
to clear the invaders’ way to Paris, that at the
end of their onward plod the means of destruction
were well-nigh exhausted. It now remains to be
seen how long their courage in defence will hold
out. They have failed to repeat their uninterrupted
success of 1866 and 1870. For the first time in 100
years the Prussians are on the defensive. Are they
going to stand up to their punishment, or will they
take it lying down?
“Melb” : The Sunday assemblage at Gor-
don’s tomb, in our Brighton suburb, was
large and enthusiastic. There is £3OO sub-
scribed for his statue. Of course, it will not
be placed in Brighton, but be given at least
equal prominence with those of Barry, Bart
Clarke, Burke and Wills, Burns, Fitzgibbon,
Gordon of Khartoum, Hopetoun, O’Connell,
Ormond and Victoria, who have been picked
by. this discriminating city as the people
jout of the whole universe most worthy of
•sculping. The Adam Lindsay Gordon statue
ought really to replace that of the Khar-
toum man, but it will do on St. Kilda-road,
opposite the Burns statue, which cost £BOO.
Melbourne is the right locality, until the
statue can be appropriately moved to Can-
berra. While Kendall is most appreciated
in Sydney, Gordon has by long odds the pull
of him in Melbourne and the South gener-
ally.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Girl in the Taxi”
Royal “Sweet Nell of Old Drury”
Palace “The Face at the Window”
Criterion “The Yellow Ticket”
Adelphi “The Rosary”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co. ;
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Gipsy Love”
King’s “The Fighting Squadron”
Royal “The Sign of the Cross ”
Princess’s “Who’s the Lady?”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Bijou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville
Olympia & National Hoyts’ Pictures
Athenaeum Hall (26th & 28th) “Mrs. Pretty and
the Premier”
♦
While “The Girl in the Taxi,” at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, is depicting our brave
allies, the French, as a nation where the
military officers occupy their spare time in
getting drunk and playing up in the im-
moral environment of a cafd, at the Cri-
terion Theatre, “The Yellow Ticket” is pic-
turing our other brave allies, the Russians,
as owning a place where innocent girls are
persecuted by the brutal powers of the
secret police—though it is understood that
the picture is that of the Russia of the past.
“The Yellow Ticket,” like all the other
plays that have recently come from the
U.S., begins with an admirable first act,
promising a fine drama, and then degene-
rating. In the Russia of the play a Jewess
cannot leave the Pale of Settlement unless
she happens to be a prostitute. For this
purpose the Russian Flossie is provided
with a yellow ticket, which franks her any-
where in Russia. In order to visit her
dying father a young Jewess applies for the
yellow ticket, and, as No. 78,943, is per-
mitted to leave her village. She is found
installed as a teacher of Russian with an
English family in Petrograd, and a visit of
the secret police discloses that she is pro-
vided with the passport and credentials of
a dead girl. Then she produces her yellow
ticket. Needless to say, she is a Good Girl.
That is the annoying thing to the secret
police. She is living under false pretences.
Her English employer naturally dismisses
her, but the chief of the secret police, Baron
Andrey, a nice old gentleman with the bald
spot of a blameless life, promises to be her
“friend.” Annoyed by his agents, who were
acting under his orders, she comes to his
rooms at the usual melodramatic hour, and
the inevitable pro-seduction scene takes place
in the locked room with an amount of
realism that looks like the theatrical limit.
* * * *
Seduction scenes can end only in one of
three ways: (1) the girl is seduced (this
never happens on the stage) ; (2) the girl is
rescued; (3) the girl murders the man. In
“Tosca” the Baron is killed with a paper-
knife ; in “Mr. Wu” the lady’s stand-by
is poisoned tea; in “The Yellow
Ticket” she wields The Poor Girl’s
Friend, the humble hatpin. And, for
stage purposes, the humble hatpin is
quite as effective as the Sign of the Cross.
She is arrested, confesses her crime, and is
about to be sent to Siberia. The Baron’s
death is given out, for family reasons, as due
to appendicitis. But the secret police have
not reckoned with one U.S. journalist. He
threatens to expose their methods to the
world —and the secret police publicly
shudder. Fearsome is the spectacle of a
secret policeman shuddering in public. In
an utterly improbable scene the journalist
defeats the whole Russian Government, and
triumphantly carries No. 78,943 off to marry
her.
VAUDELLING—A NEW PASTIME.
Cinquevalli, the famous juggler, is settling in
Australia.
This is Cinq, vaudelling at milking-time.
The melodrama is admirably produced, the
make-up of the Russians being a series of
triumphs for the wig-makers, whose names,
unhappily, are not mentioned in despatches.
Gwen Burroughs wears some beautiful gowns
and some beautiful smiles with distinction
in the colorless part of an English girl. As
the American journalist Eric Maxon is
merely Eric Maxon; and every journalist
present must feel broken up at Eric Maxon’s
conception of his humble craft. His Ameri-
can accent is mislaid ; but this omission is
more than compensated for by the mellow
and full-bodied N’Yark twang of Zoubatoff,
of the Russian secret police, otherwise im-
personated by Lincoln Plumer with his usual
vigor. E. W. Morrison, in a masterpiece of
a make-up, acts with his usual quiet sincerity
and his too-usual inability to make himself
completely heard. The Baron, in the cap-
able hands of Edward O’Neill, becomes
a quiet-mannered villain, whose commend-
able freedom from exaggeration almost makes
the audience forget that the play is a melo-
drama. His acting in the pro-seduction scene
is quietly consistent with the author’s con-
ception. But ip dyipg, for the future, he
should fall more in the shadow, since, on
Saturday night, the light upon his white vest
indicated that he wasn’t quite so dead as
No. 78,943 evidently thought. Muriel Starr,
who can look charming when she likes,
acts throughout with the tense emotionalism
required by the melodramatic though conven-
tional situations provided by Michael Mor-
ton, though her delivery of the long narrative
speech in the first act was spoiled on Satur-
day by her inability to remember the words.
It is possibly due to the improbability
of the final act that Miss Starr fails to keep
up the dramatic tension engendered by the
previous scene. Her assumption of an almost
incredible girlish innocence, regarded by the
dramatist as necessary, reveals one of the
most artistic facets of her varied theatrical
equipment.
“THE FACE
AT THE
WINDOW ”
(SYDNEY
PALACE).
Le Loup , Comic
Tourist and
Famous Detective.
Cut-throat Bar-
belon ( Harry
Beaumont) and
the Face (Pro-
perty Mask ,
Esq.).
Nellie Stewart will Du Barry for the last
time at Sydney Royal on Friday night. The
drama of the French Revolution has had a
good run in a' time when things are blue
and when theatrical managers are going
grey. It is to be hoped that “Sweet Nell
of Old Drury,” who follows on with her
basket of oranges, will have equally good
luck. “Sweet Nell” deserves prosperity as
a kindly attempt to whitewash a monarch
who really deserves a spot of wash. Inci-
dentally someone should write a drama to
whitewash his brother and successor, James
11., who perished practically through an
insane attempt to introduce religious free-
dom and toleration into the British Isles.
He * * *
At present there is not the slightest sus-
picion of “The Rosary” leaving Sydney Adel-
phi for a considerable time. Yet theatrical
sudden death is becoming so common that
any portion of Sydney which was turned
away last week, or couldn’t go out because it
had left its goloshes at the office, is advised
to rush the show at once. The opportunity
of seeing a bellowdramatic villain repent may
never come again. As a rule, the villain leads
a bitterly case-hardened life in his dress-suit
rind his cigarette and his metallic laugh, and
as a rule he dies a case-hardened
death. He has been shot, and hanged,
and stabbed, and burned, and guillo-
tined, and thrown down a precipice
6000 ft. deep ; and he has fallen dead of shock
in a court of law; and he has been poisoned;
and he has committed suicide in every
possible way except by suffocation with
a fishbone; also he has heart-diseased and
consumpted, and gone mad and died of
drink and perished of hypocrisy; and he has
simply disappeared. But he seldom repents
or is trodden to death by elephants.
H: * * *
That classical shocker, “The Face at the
Window,” is back at the Palace (Sydney),
where on several other occasions it has been
a horrible rapture or a rapturous horror to
large and umnfluential audiences. It hasn’t
changed in its characteristics, but some of its
incidents are slightly altered. Amongst them
is Robert Inman’s acting as Detective Paul
Gouffet, who leads the hostilities in the
Rogues’ Retreat, and, after being finally
killed, is resurrected by electric jolts suffici-
ently to denounce the d —est villain that ever
had a job with William Anderson. Lnere are
more thrills in “The Face at the Window”
than in the news cabled to Australia from
the London ha’penny dailies.
* * * *
Douglas Mawson adroitly dodged the once-
a-week Sundry Show man by giving three
Antarctic lectures, at the Concordia Hall,
Sydney, on September 21, 22 and 23, thereby
coming and going before The Bulletin
could unlimber and open fire. It is a waste
of time to throw either bouquets or bricks
at a performance that has fled with its
astonished penguin under its arm. The
missiles only rebound dully from the closed
door of the edifice it inhabited during its
flying visit, and the passer-by, who can
neither be warned off or shoved in, wonders
what all the fuss is about. So there will
be no fuss.
* * * *
Madam Fatima, the ex-harem beauty, who
is alleged to have dodged out of the front
door while his Maj. was arguing with the
fishman at the back entrance, is demonstrat-
ing at the Sydney Tivoli what is expected of
the lady who takes on that job. First, she
must be prepared to wear about as many
garments as the average suburban clothes-line
on a wet Monday. Second, she must be able
to wriggle any part of herself in any two
different directions at once. Finally, she
must apparently take herself seriously while
doing so. Fatima does these things almost to
a nicety, arid in her first dance, when she
doesn’t do them she approaches even closer
to perfection than when she does them, the
inference being that no matter how essential
these performances may be the play could get
on without them. Paul Cinquevalli, A 1 Her-
mann (“the black laugh”), Ted Mercell and
others are present for the benefit of those who
are not interested in ancient Asiatic doings.
* * * *
Edward Blondell and Catherine Caine, who
have been heading the bill —not without justi-
fication —at the National Amphitheatre (Syd-
ney) this week with their farce-sketch, “The
Lost Boy,” are close up to the departing
night. Mme. Schell has not yet eaten her
lions, and other old friends are in the vicinity
of the ragtime orchestra twice daily.
«!»
The Imperial Salon de Tango continues to
hang out its sign in Sydney. It hangeth not
in vain.
H*
The long and amusing career of “The
Girl in the Taxi” is coming to an end, the
petrol of public patronage having begun to
fail. Anyone who wants to see the sort of
diversions which Kaiser William missed by
his failure to get into Paris is hereby urged
to visit Her Majesty’s, Sydney, before the
engine stops.
* * * *
Adelaide Repertory Theatre gave a busy
evening of three short plays. Maxwell’s
“Last Man In” was most important, because
new. It is not a cricket comedy, as the
title might imply, but a rustic tragedy in
the spirit of Thomas Hardy. The cronies at
the inn are gloating over a specially horrid
murder in London when a gloomy and mys-
terious stranger scares them all. After they
have gone he discloses himself as the land-
lady’s long lost son, and in a nightmare-
enacts the crime over again. Then he con-
veniently dies, and his mother is left thank-
ing God for that. Barring Frank Wilkin-
son as a Hardy peasant, the only player
worth noting was James Anderson, who put
in a strong performance in the dream and
death. But it was punctuated by the steady
giggling of a section of the audience. Unless
the Rep. Theatre can get back to its old,
intelligent audiences it seems likely to have
to give up the strong plays which —presum-
ably—it exists to produce. Synge’s “Shadow
of the Glen” has been done by this theatre
before, and done better. The players _ en-
gaged hardly seemed at home in the Irish ;
in particular, the poetic “deludhering” ring
of the Tramp’s discourse was not apparent.
In strong contrast was “The Maker of
Dreams.” Oliphant Down’s fantasy of
Pierrot, Pierrette and an elderly, modern
Cupid, had been recited in Adelaide by
Dorothea Spinney. It was now nlayed by
Douglas Walsh, Zoe Reid, and Wilfrid Neill,
sound artists who could, each or all, get a
professional engagement at any moment if
they cared to; and they brought out the full
flavor. What is the precise gift which
enables some actors to “hold” the stage in
an impressive pause for an indefinite time,
while others, if silent for a mere 10 sec-
onds, have the audience uncomfortably
listening for the prompter?
H« * Sic He
“The Forty Thieves/’ at Adelaide Royal,
is a good panto., and is. doing as well as it
deserves. Winnie Volt is now Ganem. She
has more youth and refinement than the aver-
age principal boy. Marie Eaton gives patri-
otic ballads with appropriate vigor. Lupino
is a delightful comedian to watch, his
thoughtful acting being consistent and un-
usual; also he (and Brett) can take a
special bouquet for their work at matinfies,
when they cut out the evening jokes on
Beer and the Lodger, and replace them with
more of the assault-and-battery so dear to
the childish heart. At the Tivoli, Teddy
still standing-jumps, and Torino —very
casual and clever —still juggles; also there
are the Boises, Russell and Held, and other
attractive people. Kelly and Pollock at the
King’s are the best turn in a level and very-
American programme. The Town Hall has
yet one more costume co., “Fireflies” this
time. Patriotic concerts are nearly every-
where and patriotic ballads are in the few
remaining spots.
** * *
Granting that a stout lydy, long time mar-
ried to the provincial magistrate she used to
cook for, can retain a domestic mania for
polishing brass, and admitting that her silly
old husband’s daughter by a former marriage
could possibly forget her native language
during five years’ education in a foreign land,
the story of “Who’s the Lady” may be
accepted as reasonably farcical. The new
comedy at Melbourne Princess’s is very in-
genious, like “The Glad Eye,” which preceded
it. And it is even more French than the
other comedy. The spirit of naughtiness
hovers about the narrative with outstretched
wings. The perfume of impropriety lingers
between the acts. The public and private
morality of political officialism in France


WORLD-FAMED
HATS.
For
QUALITY,
For
DURABILIT’.
NABOB BOOT PASTF..
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
LEWIS
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
& WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney.
A Famous Remedy for
Young and Old.
p
V
Cure that Cold!
No home should he without a bottle of
“Nazetha.” It costs only 1/6 a bottle, post
free, but it will save you the inconveniences
and expense which attend a cold. There is
no telling where a neglected cold will lead.
Be prepared and buy a bottle of “Nazetha”
to-day.
You simply let two drops fall on your
handkerchief and then breathe the soothing,
healing ethers up the nostrils. It is not
pungent, but pleasant, and it gives instant
relief. It may be given to children with
safety. Sprinkle two drops on their pillow
at night.
“NAZETHA”
Obtainable from all Chemists.
If your chemist will not supply it send postal note for
1/6 to Miller <fe Son, Chemists, Hobart, Tasmania.
POST FREE, 1/6 BOTTLE.
succumbs to the blandishments of a giddy
vaudeville actress, and the pervading atmo-
sphere of scandal is so thick that you can
scoop it with a shoe-horn. Circumstances
put Gobette—the actress \vith the sinful
smile —in the way of masquerading as the
wife of the stodgy magistrate aforesaid, what
time his lawful, brass-polishing spouse has
gone to Paris to plead for his promotion with
the Minister of Justice. The stodgy, virtu-
ous beak and his missus are dragged into
false situations by the long arm of coinci-
dence, whereas the Minister of Justice mostly
has his arm round Gobette. Also, his private
secretary squeezes Gobette, who was designed
by Providence for free, easy and accessible
endearments. Thus the stodgy nonentity is
nromoted to be president of the Equity Court,
or something, on account of his supposed
relationship to Gobette, who rushes around
the Ministerial apartments clad only in her
undergarments. In all respects the English
translation does its best to explain why
“Who’s the Lady?” was Parisianly known as
“Come into my Office.”
* * * *
Miss Ethel Dane, as Gobette, is a chic and
charming heroine. She skates over thin ice
and glides along risky passages like a dream-
girl. She is the perfect daisy that flourishes
in delicate ground. To see Miss Dane look-
ing for the last gown that fell off her when
the Minister of Justice was pressing his suit
is to admire an artist in French comedy work.
Henry Ford presents the indiscretions of the
amorous Minister in a quietly forcible man-
ner. A malignant, mischievous usher is well
played by Edward Landor; the private secre-
tary is neatly done by Shelford ; and the rest
of the co. ranges from fair to middling, with
two exceptions. Gus Morton, in the rather
difficult part of a commissionaire who acts
as interpreter, is painfully middling; whilst
the extravagant buffoonery of Claud Vernon,
in a very easy part, amounts to an insult to
common intelligence. Vernon, being the stage-
manager of the show, should take himself
gently by the ear and order himself to behave
like a rational Government clerk, rather than
a frenzied freak.
A multitude of them who take a little
theatrical entertainment occasionally for
their soul’s sake, and who still talk in ecs-
tatic whispers of “Quo Vadis” on the picture
screen, rolled up religiously to “The Sign of
the Cross” revival at Melbourne Royal last
Saturday. For 12 nights that well-thought-
out melodrama will turn Early Christianity
to good commercial account. The present is
not the gaudiest production of “The Sign” on
Melbourne record, but it is sufficiently rich
in limelight and Pagan trappings to satisfy
any Nonconformist Conscience. The weird
and wondering audience last Saturday took
the moralisings of Marcus quite seriously,
and sniffed a furtive sniff when boy Ste-
phanus was belted into revealing the secret
rendezvous of the brethren. The brethren
met together in a public grove, and their long
beards and winding-sheets made them always
too conspicuous for even a policeman to miss
the clue, nevertheless Nero’s best-informed
agents had to capture an early Sunday-school
boy to tell them where the next prayer-meet-
ing was going to take place. But no matter.
Julius Knight is, to the present historian,
a far more praiseworthy Marcus Superbus
than when he was 18 years younger on the
job. His appearance is still young enough,
and his flamboyant “glory” acting of yore has
been toned down with due regard to the
Pagan dignity of the character. The Julius
of yore blazed out again when he rushed to
the prayer-meeting and over-ruled the forces
of Tigellinus, crying: “Take away the rub-
bish, but leave the best gyurl to me,” or
words to. that effect. Otherwise he was the
modern, improved Julius. His scene with the
love-sick Berenice (capitally played by Miss
Irene Browne) was impressive, likewise his
red-hot wooing of Mercia and his appeal to
Nero.. Frank Harvey (Tigellinus) and
Glabrio (Eardley Turner) were the best of
the other men, whilst Miss Calvin (Dacia)
distinguished herself among the other ladies
by being sometimes three seconds behind the
prompter with her next word. Miss Lizette
Parkes, as Mercia, was equally sweet and
mild, but in excuse for her weakness in the
“You cannot harm me now” scene it may be
stated that the miraculous thunder and light-
ning seemed to go wrong in the making, and
a voice at the wings sounded very like swear-
ing at the heavens.
** * *
“Gipsy Love” prospers at Her Majesty’s,
Melbourne, as its music deserves. The fool-
ishness of the young lady who elopes with
Gipsy . Joe, and stipulates for wedding-bells
at their marriage, is quite ridiculous even as
stage foolishness goes; but then her noble
father, with the pantomime nose, is also
ridiculous,, and the end of the second act is
the limit in high-flown absurdity. So the
fact that the heroine has rats in the garret
doesn’t really matter. Perhaps it is better
than having beetles in the kitchen.
Anyhow, the songstresses of the chorus will
assist Jozsi to make a delightful noise in the
garden every evening until further notice —
and afterwards.
There are smells of powder and traces of
*<rp ’ ? ew visible signs of combat in
The Fighting Squadron,” perpetrated by a
Bill Anderson co. at Melbourne King’s on
►Saturday night. What might have been a
topical sensation, knee deep in ultimatums
and crowded with slain, turns out to be a
vague and disjointed narrative of a minor
embezzlement, with the usual drearily comic
and emotional features. One von Falken-
stein, a German miscreant, tries to wrest
some bags of bullion from the Belgian Gov-
ernment and employs a gang of bandits in
the undertaking. A beauteous Belgian lieu-
tenant, lienri de Wiart, is damaged fre-
quently in the subsequent proceedings; and
Commander Staunton, of the Bull Navy, is
also threatened with bodilv harm. Further,
Staunton has to parry a false charge of
murdering de Wiart’s father, and in the
final scene the Englishman and the Belgian
just manage to avoid the attentions of a
firing squad. Both, of course, are madly in
love with the two most adorable females in
the play, but the space that the couples
devote to canoodling might be employed in
adequately explaining the presence of a
I renph and a Russian admiral on the
premises. Presumably the dejected-looking
planners are to convey an impression of
international complications and a looming
war cloud, but the managerial reticence on /(
this point leaves the whole subject shrouded/
in conjecture and doubt. The only thirig
that The Bulletin is clear about is that
the bellowdrama is fairly well acted by a
company of generally well-known mummers.
C. R. Stanford plays von Falkenstein and
provides a picture of a stodgy old gent
crawling about like an undertaker in a
dream. Rutland Beckett is his nephew,
and George Dawe utters the martial senti-
ments of Lieutenant de Wiart in a voice
that suggests a bloodthirsty curate or a
chophound. Roland Conway, as Com-
mander Staunton, displays some of the
energy expected of Blokes of the Bulldog
Breed, and the frivolous part of Horatio
Fritters is some excuse for Temple Harrison
being at large. Miss Ida Gresham, as
Mane von Falkenstein is gracefully colorless,
while Miss Olive Wilton, as Elaine de Wiart,
is an emotional young j erson given to a
great unrest. The scenery is up to the
usual Andersonian standard, but the neces-
sity. of representing three or four nations
getting on a war footing tries Anderson’s
super resources considerably.
Suggested by the Wolff Tango Turn at
Sydney Tivoli.
Bert Le Blanc, late of “The Grafters,”
was a fairly welcome visitor at Melbourne
Bijou on Saturday. A quaint drollery
usually distinguishes the Yiddish comedian,
but he doesn’t display the full extent of his
gift when disguised as a bandy-legged soldier
of the King. The best of his patter is only
passable, and is rather overcrowded with
poor little puns. The Goldinis, a juggling
and acrobatic quartette, furnish a moderately
successful act; and Van Buren and Spin-
etti supply some languid expositions of
advanced ballroom dancing. The only other
Bijou matter of moment is the imminence
of Daisy Jerome, who is expected to shake
her scarlet thatch at a full house next
Saturday.
** * *
Barring Stelling and Revell, whose turn
combines uproarious clowning with bright
bar gymnastics, there are no new features of
interest at Melbourne Tivoli this week.
Ralph Errolle has reappeared to warble
sweet ballads and disclose the texts of the
French and Russian Anthem* without extra
charge, while Roberts and Lester continue
to demonstrate that they have the whistling
complaint as badly as ever. De Dio, Tom
Kelly, and Phil Kaufmann are as before,
but Miss Smithson has varied her pro-
gramme to the extent of singing, fluently,
the Jewel Song from “Faust” and pelting
inoffensive stall-holders with flowers.
H °yts Pictures, temporarily removed
from the old stand next to the Theatre
Royal, Melbourne, are now nightly on view
at the commodious Olympia, near Princes
Sem 2 th f e £ at r al Ti ““* re . at T
eastern end of Bourke-street. Hovt’s de-
fi ar in^ at - ? ey best and most
in local picture entertainment, and as evi-
dence of their claim they are screening at
sand fwt 1 nf 6 fil hlS T ek about twelve thou-
Test” f af Av ? on S these “The Blood
issl” speciaiii ' seiecM f » r »»“-
** * *
..r.Tak-i™ 1 ?* 1 a t - iv ® encore > which makes itself
al M^ 1041011 on T aits’ Pops, was more
imperative than usual at Melbourne Audi-
torium last Saturday, when Peter Dawson
bore the heat and burden of the concert. A
U .Gunning (at the piano), Miss Annetta
Oeorge (soprano) and Miss Margery Gray
with her violin were also loaded with appro-
bation, but the principal sufferer was the
amiable Peter. He must have got full-up
ot buists of applause. A popular baritone
on such occasions is in the position of the
provei bial Spaniard who accepts a strong
drink, hirst the man takes an encore, then
the encore takes an encore, then the encore
takes the man. For every one song that
1 eter Dawson sang the audience comman-
deered at least three others. His second
concert is due to-night (Thursday). .
** * *
At Melbourne Athenaeum Hall, on
Saturday and Monday, the Repertory Co.
will play Mrs. Pretty and the Premier,”
which has the recommendation of being an
Australian comedy by Arthur Adams. By
way of encouraging local manufacture of rea-
sonable plays, for reasonable people, the
G.-G. lady will attend one performance, and
the State Governor and lady will smile upon
the other.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Iyevidon”: H. B. Irving, in his zeal for
criminology studies for stage purposes, gets
hold of some gruesome things. His latest
acquisition is a one-act play, called “The
Mask.” It deals with a country girl whose
husband has had his features mutilated in
an explosion. He always wears a mask.
The wife, who has taken an aversion to
him, invites a former lover to the house.
While they are talking the masked and
mutilated husband returns, and, a struggle
ensuing, he is knocked down and apparently
killed. The guilty pair scheme that the
victor shall dispose of the body and then,
by the aid of the mask, assume the position
of the dead man. But, while the woman
is absent from the room, the husband
revives and kills his rival. He throws
the dead man down an old well.
When he returns masked the girl thinks
their plan has worked. But in a few
minutes, when the husband proceeds to the
bedroom, to which, in a feigned voice, he
had bidden her retire some moments before,
the shrieks of horror which are heard tell
the audience she has discovered her mistake.
These howls of misery and lamentation finish
the story. It isn’t a nice story, when all
the points are considered.
Some of the Sherman moosik professors
in Melbourne seem to be looking for trouble.
Their proud Prussian spirit refuses to be
diplomatic. They proclaim in public places
their objections to Pridish inderference in
j!* r f v ? r ; * nd Predict that Shermany is going
to twist der peastly Pridish pull-dog’s toil—
th Tr y dld predict it as long as der
Sohns of der Vaterland were advancing, ach f
A rof ™ skiting about Sherman
< t\ iest °? der Vorld is a terrible fellow. His
wrath positively bristles. All the same, it
is noted, as a sign of the times, that the mo
or tne mad moosik man has lost its upward
turn. He no longer brushes it Kaiservise.
Maoriland has been taking its war scare
rather gloomily, and many shows got hit
badly of late. But there is hope for
Bunty I ulls the Strings.” Its Scawtch-
ness spells siller in the land of Mac. Harry
Bander struck Maoriland at the worst time,
but he has been equal to £l6OO a week in
the big towns.
“The Silver King” seems destined to run
parallel, on a higher plane, with that more
lugubrious morality play, ‘‘East Lynne,”
It is a management’s last resource when
times are dull, and no new production can
be expected to boom. When in the dul-
drunis they put up “Silver King.” Julius
Knight s season at Melbourne Royal was to
have ended with the “Sign of tiie Cross,”
a drama which rarely appeals in vain. But, on
reflection, the management wisely decided to
add 12 nights of "Silver King.” Wilfred
Denver promises to outlive Lady Isabel, not-
withstanding her sex advantage. Isabel
provides the great army of women theatre-
goers with the very sort of creeps they are
fondest of, whereas Denver is only a boozy
gambling waster of a husband who gets
reformed through a series of marvellous
happenings. But then there are other
things than sin and sorrow in Jones and
Herman’s sturdy play. In “East Lynne”
there is only sin, sorrow and consumptive
child. The coughing kid has been rendered
piactically obsolete by the modern, open-air
treatment of youthful chest complaints.
“0.K.”: Modern Scottish comedy—speak-
mg of Barry’s “What Every Woman Knows”
and Graham Moffat’s “Bunty Pulls the
Strings”— suggests three alternative supposi-
tions to the Saxon commentator. The
shrewdness of the average Scotchwoman is a
comparatively stronger sexual characteristic
than the shrewdness of other sorts of women.
Or Scotchmen have only lately become aware
of the prevalence of womanly wisdom in their
world, having previously regarded all women
as creatures of small intellectual importance.
Or Scotch dramatists, in view of the con-
spicuous fact that theatres nowadays are
mainly supported by feminine patronage and
feminine interest in stage matters, are
inclined to pull the sex’s leg with artless,
undisguised eagerness. The third supposi-
tion is the one I would adopt to explain the
biased sentiment and the woman-attracting
titles of Barry’s and Moffat’s plays.
Old Biggar and Weelum are pitiable illus-
trations of man’s inability to cope with
woman. The village policeman is a
blockhead. The two elderly spinsters, kindly
and vixenish respectively, are much stronger-
minded than the men, and Bunty bosses the
crowd. When Weelum remarks on her
capacity for undertaking responsible kirk
duties, such as standing in front of the
plate, Bunty cocks her head knowingly and
says there are many things she could do if
she were allowed the chance. Bunty, in
fact, is made to anpear awfu’ clever by act-
ing like an ordinary intelligent person
among a lot of “mugs,” of whom the men
are the absolutely stupid ones. It is very
crude flattery for women, very plain and
direct. The business methods of a “hard-
headed” Scotchman are likely to be plain
and direct, rather than subtle. That
seems to account for the nature of modern
Scottish comedy.
“Randolph”: Nellie Stewart is excellent
as Du Barry. She has never done anything
better, and she deserves well of Australia.
As a comic opera star I have never seen
anyone to approach her. It wasn’t all
voice, nor all acting, nor all appearance, but
she had to the full the quality of being
tremendously alive. You can see some of
the same quality in the Australian chorus
in close comparison with lackadaisical prin-
cipals from overseas. I didn’t like her Kitty
Bellairs nor Nell of Old Drury—not for
any fault of hers, but by reason of the
mawkish ness of both those alleged plays.
In Du Barry she is fine —the woman for the
play and the play for the woman.
One function of the gramophone in the
future will be purely scholastic. French in-
tonation of French language, for instance, is
taught by the Pathephone. First-class elo-
cutionists recite classic prose and poetry
into a funnel in Paris, and foreign students
of French get the recitations from records.
Just as the gram, teaches singers how to in-
terpret a song in the manner of a great
artist it instructs scholars in the arts of
conversation and oratory. The lover of the
by-and-b.ve will have to attend gramophone
classes if he wants to tell his passion to his
best girl in the best way. The successful
after-dinner speaker will have a gramophone
to keep him up to concert pitch, and even
members of Parliament will be expected to
know how to make their points forcibly if
they have any points to make.
BURLESQUE AT COCKATOO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The boilermakers at Cockatoo Island are out on
. strike. Their action is the result of a meeting held
during the lunch hour yesterday, when the men assem-
bled to consider what they allege is a violation of a
vital principle. They decided to work «n to the
5 p.m. whistle, but not to resume this morning, until
some settlement was arrived at. It is understood
that the principal cause of the dissatisfaction was the
substitution of an apprentice for a journeyman boiler-
maker. —News item of last week.
Though censors toil with pen and ink to soften war’s
alarms,
I find more comfort in this fact than any feat of
arms:
Though Germany is still on deck, I judge her end
is due—
The boilermakers lately struck around at Cockatoo.
As in the piping days of peace, the old industrial
strife
Gives to the fainting news-sheet one clear breath of
current life;
When distant wars are fizzling out the Dove of Peace
I view
Suspended o’er the heads of those who struck at
Cockatoo.
I take no stock in headlined “Routs” and shrieks of
“Still They Run”;
Grim yarns, on lies and rumors built, I’ve learnt at
last to shun ;
I’d still be gay if papers called the outlook very
blue; ’
All must be well when patriots play up at Cockatoo.
N.S.W.
FATHER OF TEN.


\ N
1\
Golf Shirt
2S6e
All-Comfort
and
All-Occasion
Shirt.
DAVID JONES, LTD.
Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
FOR BUSINESS OR PLEASURE
©fte Golf Shirt
The finest shirt for wear on
almost any occasion. As
smart as it is comfortable.
We have just opened a new
selection, in material of
special Jap Crepe, and offer
them at a real value price.
They are beautiful shirts; a
pure white ground, with
effective, narrow stripes of
black, blue or heliotrope.
Wear well, look well and
launder splendidly. Collars
to match. Price
5/6.
Wc Pay Carriage ,
DAVID JONES, LTD.,
opp. G.p O—— SYDNEY
ďs
TRY ST USB YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
fsd
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets*
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. ~ Softens Hard Water 1 .
Price II- per Bottle. Of all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
None QentUae without tie Signature of Scrubb & Co. on eacix Bottle.
fsd
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
THE MONARCHIST
AUSTRALIAN GIRL: “Thai’s King Billy and his queen.”
ENGLISH GIRL (newly-arrived): “What?!! Royalty?!! Good gracious, hadn’t we
belter curtsey?”
“Murkah” from the water front: —
The recent expedition to Samoa furnished many
surprises, chief among which was the adaptability of
the Maoriiander to military discipline.' When the
men came on board the transports (Moeraki and
Monowai) discipline simply wasn’t in their dic-
tionaries. They acknowledged orders with a “Right-O,
Sport,” or With an argument. Companies were re-
ferred to as mobs; the commanding-officer as' the
boss or the admiral.
They didn’t look a very ferocious lot, for during
the first two days we struck a beam swell which
upset the majority. But, sick or well, they had to
drill —up and down the deck from, early morn to
dewy eve —slope arms, fix bayonets, endless evolu-
tions. Discipline was introduced and offences
faded to nil. The night before we reached Samoa
an English military officer on board told me it was
remarkable, and highly creditable, the rapidity with
which the men had adapted themselves to the changed
circumstances. When Australia has a million like
them it will be a hard nut to crack. Given another
year or two of grace, we may yet be in a position
to back up that patriotic howl: “This bit of the world
belongs to us.”
The expedition called at Noumea to pick up the
French warship Montcalm, also the Australia, and
Melbourne of Ours.
Noumea had been very worried since war began,
lest the German fleet from Samoa would come along
and bombard the place. Had notices up to the
effect that five shots would signify the arrival of
the Germans, and that every inhabitant was then to
grab rations and necessaries and make for the hori-
zon. The welcome the French people handed to us
would have stirred the blood of a jellyfish.
Samoa provided a walk-over. Not a gun, not a
ship, not a mine. A bunch of schoolboys with
shanghais and a hatful of rocks could have taken it.
The German fleet that was supposed to be waiting to
welcome us hadn’t been around for 11 months. Seem-
ingly, the German fleet has gone into the business
of not being around.
“The Old Soldier”: Let the departing
Australian cohorts be trained hard in the
matter of marching—and then let them be
trained again and yet again. The indivi-
dualism and intelligence and adaptability of
the Australian fighting-man were all very
well against the Boer, who li,ad just about
as much discipline as he had; but in a
European war men of a different class will
have to be faced, and in such circumstances
bad marching will be a heavy handicap.
Marching with men who have not learned
to keep step, or to maintain a regular length
of pace, is very fatiguing, and as the bodies
get larger the difficulty increases. Bad
places in the road always cause a check,
and the longer the column the greater the
liability to checks. A column of 20,000
infantry would be miles long, and would
take in theory 2i hours to pass a given point
on the road. In fact, large bodies of in-
fantry rarely march more than two miles
an hour, when halts and checks on the road
have been allowed for. That means that
one of the most, if not actually the most,
important part of the soldier’s training is
pedestrianism. It is not less important than
rifle-shooting, because the soldier walks 10
days or more for every day he fights. And
all this walking exercise is not done away
with by railways, because railways are apt
to be required for the transport of supplies.
A PRAYER.
A heavy rainstorm impeded the retreat of the Germans.— Cable.
“Now then , Partner, have a heart!"
“Vic.” : The Connell collection, just added
to the Melbourne National -Museum, has
two yore-time paintings of Swanston-street,
both from the same viewpoint, the north
end of Prince’s Bridge. One is by Gritten,
painted in 1858, and the other by Burn,
done in 1861. Gritten’s works used to be
strangely, but accurately, described as
“gritty.” Burn was.perhaps not quite equal
to him, but lie had a mellow and vaporous
style. Both paintings show the old St.
Paul’s, and old bluestone Town Hall. Burn
shows St. Paul’s school, corner of Swanston-
street and Flinders-lane. The school, of
solid-looking bluestone - and handsome
design was moved to the corner of Bourke-
street west and Church-street, on the St.
James’s lands, and re-christened St. James’s
school. This was not.the academy that Oscar
Asche. attended, and which he looked for in
vain in the expanse of warehouses opposite
Menzies’ stupendous pubbery. His house of
spank and learning was a brick edifice of
small account, knocked away before the
bluestone one appeared.
* * * *
Almost the moment war was declared the
price of cream of tartar, otherwise acid
potassium tartrate, used for making baking
powder, soared from llid. or Is. per pound,
retail, to 2s 6d., and, at time of writing,
was pointing its nose higher. Strange as it
may seem, Australia imports this stuff,
mostly from Prance and Germany. It is
merely a crude deposit of grape juice, and
Australia produces enormous quantities of
it. The process of manufacture is not
difficult. The argol, as the crude deposit is
called,' is purified by filtration of its solu-
tion through animal charcoal, and even the
most bigoted anti-Australian will not profess
that this simple job cannot be done as well
in Australia as in Germany. Australia ex-
ports crude argol and buys it back again in
the form of cream of tartar. The utter
folly of sending raw material half-way round
the world, to have it treated by a simple
process worth a few coppers per ton, is com-
ing home to roost.
° *. * * *
“Barbette”: So far as one can judge by
the distant cheers and the marine insurance
rates, the British navy has made good in
brilliant style. If war found any weak spots
in the vast fighting organisation that hadn’t
been tested since Nelson’s day, they were
small spots and easily covered. Retired
Admiral Charles Beresford, in a luckily-
timed article published by Nash’s Magazine
last August, claims credit for fathering the
Admiralty War Staff —an 1886 ideal which
he only saw realised in 1912. It was 26
years on the road, but, like the turtle, it got
there in time for the soup.
There was some plain speaking in the
Anglican Synod at Adelaide on a motion
for closing bars at six instead of 11, as
now. Two laymen said they “abominated
soft tack,” and the change would mean sly
or home consumption. Quite a lot of vicars
opposed the., motion, saying, for example:
“A man goes to the bar not merely to drink
but for social intercourse. That is my
experience.” (Loud laughter.) “You have
never been in the country townships,” said
one. “In many of them the one hope- of
escaping from a miserable home is the hotel,
where a little social pleasure can be enjoyed.
It - has been said that the Church of Eng-
land is only for the rich. Such a motion
as that proposed would strengthen that
contention.” Another said that “Local
option has been the cause of more sly grog
selling at Port Adelaide than ever existed
before. Six o’clock closing would lead to
a good deal more.” Then a bishop and a
canon agreed that six was too _ early, and
suggested “not later than nine.” It was
finally carried as “before nine.”
* * * *
The councillors of Coburg, which is one
of Melbourne’s outlying suburban districts,
are considering the question of altering the
name of the place to Stanley, after the
State Governor. Ye gods! Coburg was
named in memory of King George’s grand-
father, Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg—-Albert
the Good. The name is in the English
royal family, for which the Anglican Church
offers up prayers. There’s a bauble known
as the Family Order of Coburg and Gotha.
So the proposed alteration threatens to
create strange differences of opinion between
patriotism and loyalty. Besides, the ad-
joining municipality to Coburg has the
Teutonic moniker of Brunswick, and they
can’t change the one to Stanley without
altering the other to Munro-Ferguson, or
Algernon, or something.
* * * *
“Eyes Front”: One of the late Caran
D’Ache’s drawings reveals an experienced
non-commissioned officer showing a mild
young lieutenant how to bellow an order at
a squad. When the mad shout explodes in
the non.-com.’s head the whole street is frac-
tured, the rigid line of men is blown over,
and the stick of the oldest inhabitant is
shattered in his hand. Was reminded of the
jest the other day on seeing a slight officer
boy, with the regulation smudge on his upper
lip, trying to appal a line of hard-bitten Aus-
tralian recruits who had proved themselves
clumsy : “Don’t —er —don’t turn like—er —•
like obi —er —women !” bleated the poor lad
with studied coldness. And the respectfully
■silent line signalled derisively with its eyes,
“Speak up, son !”
JUST “MISSING.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They heard no clamor of battle,
No charging squadron’s cheers ;
No murderous Maxim’s rattle
Was dinned in their dying ears;
For, wrapped in the ocean boundless
Where the tides are scarcely stirred —
In deeps that are still and soundless —
They perished, unseen, unheard.
Oh! brave are the heroes, dying
Mid thunder of charge and gun ;
But our half-mast flags are flying
For the crew of the AEI.
Lean hull through the light waves leaping,
Afar o’er the seas she sped,
Patrolling the long swells sweeping
With the sunlit clouds o’erhead.
One touch of the hand that steered her;
She answered swift to her helm,
Yet the scattering spray that cleared her
Could smother her and o’erwhelm.
And, into the deeps that bind her,
She plunged with a swirling run —
We may seek but'we shall not find her
Or the crew of the AEI.
The cruisers were dimly creeping,
Like ghosts ’neath a dawn-lit sky—-
Seeking, searching and sweeping,
But the deeps made no reply.
Hour after hour they waited
For the lift of a conning-tower
And a periscope that vibrated
To her engines’ eager power.
Or the gleam of a white wake hissing
In the rose of the rising sun —-
They have posted them, sadly, “Missing—
The crew of the AEI.”
When Australia’s brave sea story
Is written and told, we know
Their names will be lit with glory,
And wherever the six stars go,
Wherever, with bugles blowing,
Australia’s flag shall wave,
It will tell of a dark tide flowing
O’er a lonely ocean grave.
And the sound of the women weeping
For husband, lover and son,
Shall stir them not in their sleeping—
The crew of the AEI.
N.S.W.,
WILL LAWSON.


TO STRENGTHEN WEAK LUNGS AND
IMPROVE APPETITE AND DIGESTION.
Modern scientific treatment of lung affections
aims first to improve appetite, digestion and
nutrition, and secondly to heal the inflamed or
diseased mucous membrane of the lungs and
air passages.
The ideal prepara 4 ion for accomplishing
these two objects is Angier’s Emulsion. This
remedy combines the soothing, healing pro-
perties of a specially purified petroleum with
the tonic properties of the hypophosphites of
lime and soda. By its soothing an i disinfectant
action in the stomach and intestines it corrects
digestive irregularities and greatly improves
assimilation and nutrition, while at the same
time it exerts a most invigorating tonic in-
fluence upon the general health. Briefly stated,
Angier’s Emulsion is soothing and healing to
throat, lungs, stomach and intestines, an aid
to appetite and digestion, and a vitalizing
tonic and restorative. For twenty-one years
it has been prescribed by the medical profession
and used in the hospitals, and is now universally
recognised as a standard approved remedy for
lung troubles, digestive and bowel disorders and
wasting diseases. The combined healing and
strengthening properties of the emulsion
ma.ke it invaluable for healing the lungs and
building up health and strength after pneu-
monia, pleurisy, influenza or any illness
affecting the lungs ; also after measles, fevers
or any protracted illness. Even for the person
of average good health, Angier’s Emulsion is
of value, because it keeps the digestive organs
in a normal healthy condition to perform their
functions naiturally, thus making the use of pills
unnecessary. Of all chemists at 1/3,2/9 and 4/6.
A RELIABLE PANAMA
21 1-
In the past much difficulty has been
experienced in procuring- reliable
Panamas, but this year we are par-
ticularly well placed with these hats.
The style quoted is one that we can
guarantee. It is pure and even in
color, and treated so that it will
withstand long usage. The crown is
of medium height, with deep band.
Brims 2} to 3 inches. Fitted with
grease-proof leathers.
An ideal hat for the hot days, 21/-
Please state size when writing.
Catalogue of Men's Wear on request.
f
PEAPES & CO., LTD.
Men’s
Outfitters)
309 & 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
THIS PICTURE SPEARS FOR ITSELE.
The Pope who has just died set a good
example when he refused to offer up prayers
for the success of Catholic Austria against
the Protestants of England and the Greek
Church of Russia. “I pray for peace,” he
said. In. the same spirit the old Dessauer,
on the morning of battle, asked “Herr God”
to be neutral, and give everybody a fair
show. And with a similar end in view La
Hire asked God to help him to just the
same extent as he would have helped God,
if he had been God and God had been La
Hire, Even in the days of rude and
calamitous warfare there was. here and
there a .sporting commander who didn’t
regard it as a fair thing to hire the Deity
as a mercenary soldier and enlist him against
the enemy. It seemed too much like playing
with loaded dice.
RE VISED VERSION.
HIS HONOR : “ Gentlemen of the jury, if you believe the witnesses of the plaintiff, then
you will find a verdict for the defendant. If, on the other hand, you believe the
Witnesses for the defendant, in that case you will find a verdict for the plaintiff.
Again, gentlemen, if, like myself, you cannot believe the witnesses of either
party, Heaven knows what you'll do. Gentlemen, consider your verdiet."
A man can be so struck by the force of
imagination that he must reel and fall to
the ground. His heated fancy can knock
him off his feet. It happened to a book-
maker’s clerk in Melbourne last week. He
was about to see a lawyer re the matter of
divorce proceedings against his wife, when
the lady fired a revolver and brought him
down. She had missed the target, it seems,
but he took it for granted that he was either
killed or buried or something. So he fell
and waited for blood to pour from the wound
which wasn’t there. On discovering that no
harm had come to him the bookmaker’s clerk
arose in a hurry and fled for safety to the
nearest office. Meanwhile his wife was rush-
ing towards the street with the murder she
hadn’t committed lying heavy on her soul,
and she fell into the arms of the police. In
her state of excitement it is probable that
an imaginary policeman could have arrested
her. Imagination goes a long way. Walter
Besant once wrote a storv about a lout who
was so badly haunted on a South Sea island
by the ghost of the uncle he had murdered
in England that he went back to give him-
self up- and be hanged for the good of his
soul. His rage when he found that he had
only stunned the uncle, and that the old
man didn’t even know who had attacked
him, was something terrible. The lout had
been haunted by a sham ghost.
* * * *
Tn last Sunday’s Sydney Sun appeared
once more the old, dead, buried, decomposed,
embalmed, combusted and stuffed yarn about
the American person who is walking round
the world in two minutes or 2000 years
or something, for a wager of 9d., or all the
Crown jewels of Russia, the bet having been
made with Felix Q. Howler, of Syracuse,
U.S.A. The Bulletin begs to suggest that
any mention in an Australian paper of a
fraud who is walking round the world should
be made punishable by £lOOO fine. No sham
of the kind has any business in Australia,
any more than he has in the Faroe Islands.
The road round the world is across North
America, Asiatic Russia, Continental Europe
and the British Islands. That is plain
pedestrian business. When a man who is
allegedly walking round the world is found
in Australia or Mauritius or Jersey or
Stewart Island he becomes a palpable
mockery.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The story of some hurried
matrimony was told in the N.S.W. Divorce
Court —where hurried matrimony frequently
hastens —the other day. The petitioner was
deserted four years ago. She filed a peti-
tion for divorce early in 1914, and then she
re-married, without waiting for the petition
to be heard. She acted thus on the vague
assurance of an undiscovered bloke named
Bill, who wasn’t produced as a witness, that
her husband was dead. Building on the
assurance of Bill (perhaps his other name
was Smith), she told the 'parson who
fastened the holy bonds that husband No. 1
had gone to his Reward, whatever it might
be. Husband No. 2 proved a failure. He
disappeared almost immediately, and so did
her entire wealth (£6). A subsequent letter
informed the casual female that the man
reckoned he was not married to her. His
reckoning seems to be about correct.
QUALIFIED.
MR. DERWENTWATER : “So you are weturning
to dealt old England. And you have only
been heak a month —what? ”
MISS DELCOMBE : “Yes, I only came to
qualify to return as a celebrated Austra-
lian actress, you know."
“Guard Room”: The most embarrassed
pair of men I ever saw were a couple of
Australian bluejackets who had been told
off for the job of sending an alcoholic mate
back to his ship, which was lying in Farm
Cove. The Fort Macquarie waterman who
had contracted to ferry me across also ten-
dered, and got the contract, for the alco-
holic mate, who was sagging sleepily between
his two unhappy supporters, and tell-
ing them, as man to man, exactly what he
thought of them and the officer commanding
the shore party. It sounded like a battle
casualty list and an agricultural show cata-
logue. The officer concerned was close by,
and must have heard every blistering word ;
but he went about his job as if the drunk
had been dead. The glumly-siient men hold-
ing up the mass of abuse tried to look as if
they and it were dead. And the mass itself
spoke as violently as if everybody had been
dead for years. It was a splendid lesson in
naval etiquette and the weight of the British
tar’s verbal broadside.
* * * *
The panic among the English well-to-do
classes, when war was declared, was terrific.
It took the form of vast orders for food.
People rushed to the savings banks and,
drawing out the last copper, invested it in
groceries. In one case a woman, whose
household consisted of herself, husband and
a servant, ordered £BO worth of groceries.
Two of the items were 1001 b. of rice and
1001 b. of tea. A household of seven rushed
a car wildly to a big shop, and bellowed for
1201 b. of flour, 501 b. of sugar, 351 b. of tea,
351 b. of coffee and SOlb. of rice. Evidently
there were many people who did not
believe in the ability of the British fleet to
keep the seas clear. A big establishment in
Tottenham Court-road (London) received
3500 huge scare orders in 36 hours. Sugar
soared up 100 per cent, in oneTday. When
somebody at the back of the mob was raving
that he would give 6d. or Is. a lb. for half-a-
ton of brown sugar, his offer was naturally
accepted, to the detriment of the quiet person
at the front of the mob who wanted Gib. of
the article at 21 d. The people themselves
created the panic.
* * * *
“IX” : Consider the faithful, ape-like imita-
tiveness of the Sydney female. A few weeks
ago Miss Gwen Hughes, a remarkably pretty
ingenue actress, arrived with the new J.C.W.
Co. musical comedy combination. She fea-
tures the Gertie Millar walk—the first time,
so far as I remember, that it has been repro-
duced accurately in Australia. The way to
negotiate this walk is to take brief, swift
steps, to sway the shoulders the while, and
also —and most important of all—to vigor-
ously swing the right arm to and fro, opposite
the centre of .the waist-
band. It goes with a
certain sort of person-
ality and figure rather
well—suggesting or em-
phasising an atmosphere
of maidenly innocence
and childlike affability,
and all that sort of
thing. In the case of a
pretty girl of not more
than 25, and of a maxi-
mum weight of nine
stone, it may be said to
amount to an added
allurement. My griev-
ance is that it has been
plagiarised, without a
shadow of discrimination.
Fat women and scare-
crows, immature flappers,
and matrons and virgins
of 40 and upwards are
waggling their shoulders
and insanely waving
their arms, on all sides.
The same apnlies to the
New Hat. The new hat
is a calamity for all but
a tiny class. Its shape,
the angle at which it
must be worn, and its
garishness make it look
idiotically out of place,
save on the young and
fair and perfectly dressed.
One of the most pathetic
sights I witnessed last
week was an elderly lady
waiting at a tram-stop
in a dusty black dress,
ruined boots, cotton
gloves, and a haggard
expression of counten-
ance, and above it all an
arrangement like a bril-
liantly-decorated soup-plate, which reached
almost to her nose at one end. and stood up
about a foot from her dingy back hair at the
other.
* * * *
The Poverty Bay (M.L.) Herald pub-
lished this the other day
Methodist Church. — 7 p.m., Rev. R. Raine ; subject,
“Is the young man safe?” Anthem, “O, Taste and
See!”
The answer may be expected later unless
the corkscrew breaks or the cork absolutely
refuses to come out.
KAISER BILL.
(Being the opinions of one “Johno” of the Rocks
Push. )
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wot ther Devil was yer doin’,
Kaiser Bill,
Ter set out ther way ter ruin,
Kaiser Bill?
Did yer think as yer could sit on
Belgian, Russian, French an’ Briton?
Sure yer ’ad the maddest fit on —
Kaiser Bill!
If yer wasn’t off yer onion,
Kaiser Bill,
Would yer tread on Russia’s bunion,
Kaiser Bill?
Would yer spring up mad an’ perty,
Let yer right go loose an’ dirty,
Till your neighbors all got shirty,
Kaiser Bill?
Yer ’ave got the fightin’ millions,
Kaiser Bill;
An’ they die fer you like silly ’uns,
Kaiser Bill;
But the row of which you’re maker
Is a throne an’ altar shaker,
An’ will prove your undertaker,
Kaiser Bill.
Like Napoleon you’ve been skitin’,
Kaiser Bill;
But w’en Bonaparte went fightin’,
Kaiser Bill,
’E ’ad Genius, ’ad yer model
In is military noddle—
That was w’y ’is schemes would toddle,
Kaiser Bill.
But he couldn’t fight Creation,
Kaiser Bill,
With a single battling nation,
Kaiser Bill ;
So at last they worried round ’im,
(Wot a porkypine they found ’im!),
Till they cornered ’im an’ downed ’im,
Kaiser Bill!
You’re a bloke that’s ’igh an’ tony,
Kaiser Bill,
But—yer are not built like Boney,
Kaiser Bill;
An’ this game o’ Blood an’ Iron
Needs a nation never tirin’,
An’ it costs a lot fer firin’,
Kaiser Bill!
W’en a bee is in the bonnet,
Kaiser Bill,
Yer can bet yer dollars on it,
Kaiser Bill,
If beneath a crown the craze is,
An’ a royal ’ead a-daze is,
Then the road is short to blazes,
Kaiser Bill.
There is somethin’ on the totter,
Kaiser Bill;
There’s a tombstone with a motter,
Kaiser Bill:
“ ’E is restin’ from ’is labors
At the game of guns an’ sabres ;
To the sour.d o’ drums an’ tabors
’E was buried by ’is neighbors—
By his jubilatin’ neighbors,
Kaiser Bill!”
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER F.


THE FLYING MACHINE.
When will the lady aviator drop her bomb on the enemy?


THE FORTRESS.
The only way to get peace in Australia is to be prepared to fight for it if necessary. (Applanse.) If Australia is to be strong outsid it must be so inside (Applause.)-One of Jokook's fiaal electioneering spasons.
Our artist isn't quite sure that Mr. Cookk wasn't hinting at the necessity of his being returned to power again, In any case, it's to be hoped the incoming Parment won;t be unobservant of another and more material for m of inside stability.
[Done by DAVID LOW, 214 George-street, Sydney.]


\
u m
w
Examine Leviathan Suitings
in Your Own Home.
JUST A COUPON ONLY PART OF THIS PAGE -w !)
But it is your free ticket to Guaranteed satisfaction and economy in Tailored Suits.
It brings to you, free, and without obligation, choice patterns of light-weight durable suit-
ings and our new Catalog—a book worth having. It offers you the services of our Master
Cutters. All this for a coupon. Post it to-day.
SAC SUITS TO ORDER
63/-
70/-, 84/-, 90/-, 105/-
THE LEVIATHAN
Corner Swanston and Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE.
COUPON
THE LEVIATHAN,
Melbourne.
I)esr Sirs,- —
Please send me free pat-
terns and Catalog. Explain
fully your guarantee of satis-
faction or money back.
Name
Address
B’tin. 24/9.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Last Tuesday a thick-headed Boer police-
man, who was looking for a gang of robbers
(said to be fleeing in a motor) fired blindly
in the dark, and killed the best soldier and
the most perfect gentleman who came into
public view during the recent South African
annoyance. De la Bey carried his life in
his hand from the beginning of the war to
the end. A British officer said of him that
if he was surprised on the veldt with only
two men he would take up an impregnable
position behind a blade, of grass and fight
things out. lie made the last big capture
that the Boers effected when he gathered in
Lord Methuen (badly wounded) and part
of his force. And in the end he was shot
by a cop in a car.
THE PHILANTHROPIST.
“Phew! What is the world coming to?"
“Y.”: John Henniker Heaton, the
deceased baronet, was really Somebody on
the Inky Way. His “Australian Diction-
ary” lias been of incalculable use to thou-
sands of people during the last 30 years.
It is easy to find errors in it now, but any-
one who is aware of the chaos of Australian
history, as it was written when the Town
and Country Journal canvasser began to
collect his materials, must marvel at his
industry and at his general luck in getting
near to facts. The biographical part was
often tawdry, but that went almost by neces-
sity with the accepted manner of doing
About the most prominent person in
Adelaide just now is one Edmund Elkan, a
German resident of long standing, and an
inveterate letter-writer in the Register.
Ho writes good letters, too, and the war
gave him an opportunity. He carefully
defined liis position, saying that he was a
loyal Australian and would fight against any
invader, barring a German invader. He
could not he expected to take arms against
his own old nation, and would put a bullet
through his brain if that painful necessity
arose. Then the flood-gates were opened,
and the wrath of innumerable anonymous
correspondents fell upon Elkan: There was
only one bright remark in the whole busi-
ness. That was made by the paper itself.
It said: “This correspondence is now
closed.”
ANOTHER RASH PROPHECY BY THE OP PICE PROPHET.
sucli work. The collated people, in most
cases, wrote their own notices, and the
author of the book was merely their valet.
Ileaton was neither better nor worse than
others of his class. In a few notices he
attempted to put in his own work, and
made himself look as being garrulously petty,
if not vindictive. Henry Kendall was then
alive, and Heaton’s printed notice of him
said: “Overwork unfortunately led him into
intemperate habits.” Others whom he
commemorated fell into worse habits, but
he granted them the blessing of silence. He
had a taste for old records. Even when
trying to look his best he never hesitated
to cover himself with dust if Sam Bennett
told him there was an old book hidden away
under a staircase. His “Dictionary” was
an expensive thing to get out, and he had
little money at the time, so that negotiations
and feuds with printers const-routed a battle-
field. When he settled in England he hoped
to rummage through the British Museum
for original Australian records, but politics
distracted him, and wealth enabled him to
employ “ghosts” to do such thinking and
writing as kept his name to the front.
About an Australian gentleman :
His name is Patrick Byrne ; at least, it was —he
is dead now. He lived at Kadina (S.A.), and he
drove a dray. His nephew, a kiddie of under five,
was allowed to go out driving with him. The
track was rough. The dray bumped over a boulder.
The boy pitched out head first, and death was almost
instantaneous. When the stricken mother came to
notice things—the father was ill in hospital—Patrick
was missing, and he remained so till two days later,
when he was found in the scrub, miles away, hanging
from a tree by a piece of fence-wire. A quiet, tem-
perate man, liable to brood over trouble —so said the
neighbors at the inquest—and much attached to the
boy. Then the 12 apostles returned the stupid verdict
of Temporary Insanity. Their intentions were kindly,
no doubt, but they did Patrick Byrne less than jus-
tice. He had been trusted (so he may have brooded
over it in his quiet, temperate way). And he had,
in effect, at any rate, broken his trust. Anyway, the
child placed in his care was dead, through some
failure of super-carefulness on his part. Therefore
Patrick went quietly out into waste places and paid
the highest penalty known. He was the Perfect
Gentleman, in that he preferred death to any possible
suggestion of dishonor. In the ages which we pre-
sume to call Dark he would have had ballads written
in his praise. A modern jury places on record its
opinion that a man who would do such an action must
be Mad.
Some Federal Ministers: Fisher (miner),
Hughes (barrister), Arthur (barrister),
Tudor (felt-hatter), Pearce (carpenter),
Archibald (laborer —he was a rough dia-
mond from the wharves when Port Adelaide
first elected him to the S.A. Assembly, 21
years ago), Spence (miner, but for 30 years
past too busy organising to do any mining).
fS. H. Prior, Bulletin Office, George-street, Sydney.]
A probable sufferer from the Belgian anguish
will be the Duke of Wellington. For 00
years the city of Brussels has paid the Dukes
of Wellington £BOOO per annum, in consid-
eration of their ances-
tor’s services at Water-
loo. There have been
many signs, of late years,
that the Belgians had
come to regard the an-
nual tribute as a fair
thing to drop. The
Socialists, in particular,
were getting nasty on the
subject in the last Par-
liament that sat before
the German invasion. By
the time the present
trouble ends the Belgians
should have a great gen-
eral or two of their own
to subsidise. Incidentally,
is the present Duke a
General or a plumber?
From the S. M. Herald (17/9/’l4) :
Re Rhoderick Dhu. The meeting in bankruptcy
was closed, and the public examination declared
concluded.
And not a sound from Ithoderick. Yet we have
Walter Scott’s word for it that one blast
upon his bugle-horn was worth ten thousand !
By S. H. Prior, 214 George-street, Sydney:
One of the minor tragedies of the recent elections
was the disappearance of Arthur Rae from the
Senate. For 25 years or more the sterling little fellow
has been fighting neighbors’ battles in N. S. Wales
and has won a good many forlorn hopes. Now, in
a contest in which only four out of 35 Laborites
are beaten, he has missed what looked like a reliable
’bus. Rae, who represents the best qualities of the
Australian bushman, was one of the earliest members
of the Labor party in the N.S.W. Assembly, being a
colleague of George Dibbs for the Wagga district.
Before that, he had been one of the founders of the
original Shearers’ Union, and saw the inside of a
gaol in consequence. Incidentally, it is said to
have been his idea to start the Hummer, the first
little press vehicle of the bush laborers’ unions, after-
wards transformed into The Worker.
“John P.” fires the Last Volley:—
Matthew Watson, a battle-scarred warrior who had
inspected war at close quarters in many lands,
answered the last call at New Plymouth (M.L.) at
the end of August. He joined the 31st Highlanders
as a young man, and was subsequently transferred
to the 57th Regiment, known as “The Diehards.”
Watson was with this regiment in the Crimea, and
fought at Balaclava, Inkermann and Sebastopol. He
went through the Indian Mutiny with “The Die-
hards.’’ In 1861 he was sent to Maoriland with the
same old 57th to deal with Henare and Co. in
Taranaki, and when the disturbance ended he secured
his discharge, and took up a farm in the cow-
spanking province. When the present King and
Queen were in lOU-land the old man put on his
medals and went down to Wellington to be inspected
by George and Mary. As the original ribbons had
worn out he strung his medals together with some
makeshift stuff, and Mary promptly noticed it. She
asked him if he had really earned such a mass of
metal, and when he said he thought he had Mary
called a flunkey and instructed him to take a care-
ful note of Watson’s ornaments, and to see that a
complete set of ribbons were sent out to him from
Fogland. The ribbons arrived, and the decorations
were fixed up in all their old glory.
Three octogenarians passed over in
Adelaide last week. John Sanderson Lloyd
(83) was accountant half a century ago for
Elder, Stilling and Co., afterwards Elder,
Smith and Co., and he had a considerable-
sized hand in building up that concern.
Thomas Smith (88) was both a smuggler
and a British middy in his adventurous
youth. He wound up as a hard
working old Methodist. John Warren (84)
was a pastoralist and legislator, and a born
fighter. He would fight anything, from
drought to a political opponent, to the
death. He helped the Hogarths to open up
runs, on the telegraph line, in the x.'ddle of
Australia in the ’6o’s; also he 'vas part-
founder of the Mount Crawford stud, near
Adelaide, since run by the Murray family,
but now likely to be driven back through
the land being needed for a water-scheme.
Australia’s biggest wheat-dealing firm,
whose stack of grain at Darling Island,
Sydney, was commandeered last week by
the N.S.W. Government, was founded by a
blacksmith. John Darling reached S. Aus-
tralia from Scotland when the Province
was very young, and set. up a village smithy.
Frugal Jessie, his wife, thought it a pity
that the farmers and others who came to
the smithy should waste their time while
waiting at the forge, so she started a little
store to give them something to do. From
dealings in eggs and suchlike they moved on
to dealings in wheat. Some years later,
when the smithy had been abandoned. John
made his first big loss. The frugal wife was
terribly worried and said she was happier at
the little store. She wanted to go back to
the old stand. John wasn’t too sure about
it and gave her till next morning to decide
which it should be. The casting vote didn’t
go to the little smithy and store after all.
John Darling, jun., presently entered the
firm. He died early this year, and the third
generation is now operating in five States. ®
Two of Maoriland’s best-known pioneers
are James Kelly, of Nelson, and Louis
Gabriel, of the West Coast, the former
being the finder of gold-bearing quartz at
Reefton that has yielded about six millions’
worth of the yellow metal; and the latter
being the energetic individual who, in the
early days, with two companions, hoofed it
from Dunedin to Westland, and there dis-
covered payable alluvial gold. Both men
are over 80, and neither of them got much
out of his find. For about 20 years they
have been presenting petitions to the House
of Reps, praying for some _ reward, but,
although most of the supplications were
reported on favorably, the absence of cash
in the till has prevented the Minister from
opening his heart. Recently fresh petitions
were rushed to the front, and as the committee
that handles such things commented favor-
ably upon them, and Minister of Mines
Fraser has declared that at last something is
going to be done, the ancient battlers appear
to be near the end of their troubles. The
chances ay a, however, that they’ll have to
take an lOF.
RAILWAY COMMISSIONER SHORT ,
of Westralia.
WHO'LL PASS THE TEA FOR ENGLAND NOW?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
English society ladies are personally motoring
their men-servants to the London enlisting depots.
— Cable.
Who’ll pass the tea for England now our serving-
men are gone?
The face of “Jeames” was lit with joy and “Martin
Luther’s” shone:
With loyal grease poor “Martin” shone and mopped
his nubbly brow
While asking drearily: “’Oo’ll pars th’ tea for Hing-
land note f”
And who will pass the tea, I say? Go! ask the
lean, locked ranks
That pass the lead to Germany and get no word of
thanks;
The Hall is still where they were wont to make a
servile row
About peers’ pedigrees. “Who’ll pass the tea for
England now ?”
“'Oo’ll ' pars th’ tea for Hingland now t” Clear
through the battle’s din
1 hear the voice of “Martin L.,” and it is faint and
thin;
And, lo! dear “Jeames,” his fellow-slave, from where
he wounded lies,
Corrects poor “Martin” once again before he droops
and dies.
“Who’ll pass the tea for England now?” Who’ll
watch the pedigrees,
And keep the earls and dukes apart and spray the
family trees?
Good soldiers and good servants both, to foes they
would not bow —
They only crawled to earls. (“Who’ll pass the tea
for England now?”)
N.S.W.
J. B. D.


TOBACCO -»
CIGARETTES
* n
AW
4e'A
V
J
7/,
w
0 9
nu
&
3^
'4k
C
9 Hi
"SiSdtl €HM4UO*9f
1
m
IS
3
•■sS£*k. .
%
rv
TOIfIMgBBS
y / //
/// 7/ /
n«.
///
ihkf
'"(
74
' //
ll 9ft
«k»-
"// ">" •"‘<«irij((iH\‘
THE Fame of these goods
is due to exceptional fragrance
and satisfying quality.
AN UNRIVALLED BRAND.
CIGARETTES in 3 Strengths—
MILD - MEDIUM - FULL.-
TOBACCO in 3 Strengths—
MILD - MEDIUM - FULL.
Also in Plug Form,.
W. D. & H. O. WILLS


SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
Clarence Street, Sydney
Representatives
in Australia for
Stanley Solid Woven Cotton Belting
Has far greater breaking strain than Leather ; cheaper, more pliable.
MANUFACTURED IN GREAT BRITAIN. LARGE & REPRESENTATIVE STOCKS CARRIED-
BUCYRUS CO. Milwaukee
Steam Shovels, Drag Line Excavators.
Sole Agents -WILLIAM ADAMS (Kb COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Civil Service Co-operative So-
ciety of N.S.W., Ltd. (Sydney) :
Dividend (10 p.e.)
and Bonus on
Net Purchases To Re- Re-
Profits. (10 p.c.). serves. serves.
Jan., 1900.. .V 5,925 .£7,751 £1174 £26,006
July, 1906.. 8,062 0,995 1067 27,073
(114 p.c. Bonus.)
Jan., 1907.. 9,138' _ 8,298 840 27,913
July, 1907.. 8.809 8,251 658 28,471
Jan., 1908 .. 9,298 9,034 264 28,735
July, 1908 . . 9,697 9,043 654 29,389
Jan., 1909 . . 10,507 9.970 537 29,920
Julv, 1909 . . 9.388 9.531 29,783
Jan., 1910.. 11,864 10,401 1463 31,246
Julv, 1910.. 10,272 9.763 509 31,755
Jan., 1911.. 12,082 10,477 1605 33,360
July, 1911.. 10,911 10,108 803 34,163
Jan., 1912.. 12,824 11,383 1441 35,604
July, 1912 . . 10,470 11,138 34,936
(10 p.c. Bonus.)
Jan., 1913.. 11,170 11,222 34,884
Premiums on new shares, £ 13,899 48,783
Julv, 1913.. 10,973 10,745 228 49,011
Jan'.. 1914.. 12,777 12,330 441 49,452
July, 1914.. 11,940 11,993 49,399
As usual, the last line will need to be over-
hauled in six months and a few repairs
made; and doubtless when that has been
done profits will be slightly in excess of the
bonus and dividend. The reason is that vari-
ous amounts of the bonus are unclaimed ; and
these go back into reserves. It is assumed that
£350 will cover this for the past half-year.
For the previous six months it was £O3O, hut
£ s. d. was much more plentiful then than
now. The co. is a brilliant example of what
co-operation and cash-payments will do. Capi-
tal is only £27,783, and this is divided among
no fewer than 8488 holders —the attraction,
of course, being rather the 2s. in the £ on
cash purchases than the dividend. Liabilities
amount to only £36,449, yet the co. can show
a profit of over £24.000 for the year. Sundry
debtors total £lO,lOl, of which the greater
part is in customers’ monthly accounts —on
which the discount is 9d. in the £. The cash
policy enables the company itself to pay cash
for its own purchases, and during the half-
year £1799 was saved by way of discount —
enough to pay the dividend and the usual
bonus to employees.
Business is growing fast —mainly, of
course, on account of boom times, and
although the figures have slipped hack slightly
for the half-year, there is still a great deal of
satisfaction to he got out of this table :
Gross
Profit Work Proportion
Cash on Sales, ing Ex- Expenses
Receipts, etc. penses. to Receipts.
Jan., 1900 . . £67,522 £15,997 £10,158 15.04 p.c.
Jan., 1905.. 95.408 24,165 14,974 15.22 ~
Jan., 1910.. 133,247 34,643 21,181 15.90 ..
July, 1910.. 126,780 32,600 20,272 15.99 „
Jan., 1911 . . 139.740 35,976 21,953 15.71 ~
July, 1911 . . 136,860 36,362 23,174 16.93 „
Jan., 1912.. 154,713 40,956 25,810 16.68 „
Julv, 1912.. 155,178 41,593 28,786 18,55 „
Jan., 1913.. 180,604 47,847 34,270 18.97 „
July, 1913.. 169,905 45,707 32,280 18.99 ~
Jan., 1914.. 184,101 49,658 34,568 18.78 „
July, 1914.. 177,285 47,681 33,359 18.81 ~
A check appears to have been put on ex-
penses, and the rate shows little material
change during the past few years. Whether
it will be possible to bring them down still
further when the cash receipts drop—which
is inevitable —is a matter for the manage-
ment to think over. The co. does not own
its premises, but holds them on a long lease,
for the expiration of which the directors are
making ample provision.
Arthur Cocks & Co.. Ltd., wholesale
traders in optical goods, etc. For goodwill
£12,000 was paid in shares, and that and
flotation exes, represent the deficit with
which the co. started :
Dividends. Towards
, N Re- De-
Julv, Profit. Pref. 7 p.c. Ordinary, serves. ficit.
1911.. £12,844
1912. . £10,861 £lO9O 10 p.c. = £5404 £4367 8,477
1913.. 7,373 1112 8 „„ 4327 1934 6,543
1914.. 7,333 1414 4 ~ „ 2164 3765 2,788
The directors paid no interim dividend on
ordinaries, blit at the close of the year a
4 p.c. dividend amounting to £2164 was
declared, and a further £2164 put aside. This
is to be used at the discretion of the directors
“in accordance with the developments inci-
dental to the position arising out of the
war,” either as (1) a further 4 p.c. dividend,
1 2» allocation to Reserve Fund, or (3) un-
appropriated profit. And it seems most
likely that either of the two latter courses
will be adopted, very properly, and the
money put hack into the business,
which will need every penny it can get now.
The co. was formed on the top of the indus-
trial boom in Bill, to fake over the mostly-
importing business of one-time Lord Mayor
Arthur Cocks. For goodwill £12,006 was
paid, and all hut £2788 has now been re-
placed by profits. Leaseholds were taken
over at the same value as the old co. had put
upon them, so that with the exception of the
goodwill the whole of the capital is now
represented by tangible assets. Besides the
capital of £75.563, the co. works on lia-
bilities of £41,710. Of that £65,558 is in
stock, and the balance, with the exception of
the goodwill item, is in more or less liquid
assets. So the company faces the present
strenuous time without a particularly heavy
heart, as the majority of the cos. that went
off about the same time will do. Most of
them were over-capitalised, and excessive
amounts had been paid for goodwill; and. as
some of them have already begun to suffer,
they will soon be put in a very uncomfortable
position. But Arthur Cocks and Co., though
the difficulties in importing are bound to
affect it, is in the fortunate position of having
quite a moderate capital, practically the
whole of its money in tangible assets, a
healthy surplus of liquid assets, and a stock
that on account of a pretty severe writing
down a year or so back, doesn’t appear likely
to be over-valued.
The Modern Permanent Building and
Investment Society (Melbourne), from the
date of the great cleaning-up:—
Trad- Profit
ing on To Re- Re-
Julv, Profit. Sales. Dividends. serves, serves.
1911.. £4819 £329 31 p.e. = £3381 £1767 £23,863
1912.. 4954 1267 5 ~ ~ 4830 1391 25,254
1913.. 5733 2422 6£ ~ „ 6279 1876 27.130
1914.. 6944 7469 7 „ „ 6762 7651 34,781
“From the date of the great cleaning-up.”
The Modern came the usual cropper in 1892,
and nursed a sore head for 10 years. By
that time it felt sufficiently recovered to face
its creditors. So an arrangement was made
to pay the old creditors .'> p.e. with an
extra. 2 p.e. if the profits could stand it. and
they were only able to stand the full 2 p.e.
in 1909 and 1910. At the same time the
gradual repayment of the old debts was
begun, and by 1910 they had been reduced
from £818.977 to £58,131. ’ Then it was
decided f<> get rid of the lot. And in 1910, by
which time the co. had accumulated a deficit
of £7O 000 odd, the capital was reduced by
one-lialf (£90,005). and the concern re-
started with a clean slate. As the table,
which begins at that point, shows, the wilt-
ing down was over-severe, and allowed of the
co. resuming with a reserve of £22,096. Since
then it lias been going very cautiously, as
witness this table :
1911. 1912. 1913. 1914.
Liabilities. . . . £29,588 £31,500 £35,372 £44,098
Balances owing .. 85,511 95,739 101,640 124,516
Freehold house pro-
perty . . . . 8,000 4,000 2,500 2,500
Vacant land .. 8,542 7,348 5,962 1,299
Premises . . . . ‘50,000 50,000 50,000 50,000
Other assets . . 1,384 1,101 2,870 550
In 1902 the co. had advances owing of
£448.086 (they had been reduced to £125,588
by 1910). .That, of course, was the trouble.
To finance these, the co. had to get in a heap
of outside money, and when the bottom and
most of the sides fell out of the property
market, the co. was left stranded. Now it is
being careful with its liabilities, and has only
£17,317 of deposits. The balance of the
money required is raised on a', mortgage over
the co.’s own premises. As the table shows,
the very lucrative property items will soon
disappear from the accounts. But by that time
a respectable business should be built u" and
though on present appearances the ordinary
business profits would hardly pay the divi-
dend, the shareholders have waited so long
for a bite (the 1911 distribution was the first
for 20 years) that they shouldn’t mind hold-
ing off for a few years more until a decent
reserve is accumulated.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney),
station-produce salesmen, etc.: —
Written
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1901 .. £5,569 Nil £5,569 £7,500
1902 . . 12,299 Nil 12,299 7,500
1903 . . 6,319 Nil 6,319 7,500
1904 .. 6,438 5 p.e. =£2,500 11,438
1905 .. 3,523 5 „ ~ 2,500 12,461
1906 .. 12,561 5 „ ~ 2,500 7,500 15,022
1907 .. 17,033 10 „ „ 5,500 17,500 .. 9,055
1908 .. 8,277 10 „ ~ 5,500 11,832
1909 .. 13,845 19 „ „ 10,500 15,177
Property written up, £lO,OOO .. .. 25,177
1910 .. 19,859 35 p.e. = 21,000 - 24,036
1911 .. 17,509 23J „ „ 17,500’ 24,045
1912 . . 14,793 16 „ ~ 13.500 - 25,338
1913 .. 20,438 21 „ ~ 19.000 26,776
1914 .. 25,315 10 „ „ 10,000 42,091
Pitt. Son and Badgery have settled down
again and resume the 10 p.e. dividend at the
old address. Up till five years ago capital
was £50,000, representing 10s. per £1 share.
Since then the uncalled 10s. has been gradu-
ally paid up by tile co. out of profits—the
recent dividends in excess of 10 p.e. being
used for that purpose—so the present
moderate-looking dividend is in reality 20
p.e. on the money paid up by shareholders.
But they are merely making up for time
lost while they were removing the dead
horse, of which every pastoral co. got its
share. And Pitt, Son and Badgery came
out of it as honorably as any of them. The
last of the mess was got rid of in 1007, and
aided by a wonderful run of good seasons,
the institution is building itself into what
is unquestionably a strong position. Its
money, instead of being out in advances.
i« in premises, sale-yards and wool-stores
(all freehold), and The Bulletin would
be very much surprised if the co. were to sell
the properties for as little as they stand in
the books.
This table gives an idea of how the co.
has provisioned itself to meet what is going
to be a very bad time for wool-people:—
1900. 1910. 1911. 1913. 1914.
Overdrafts .. £55,741 £17,311 £29,272 £38,159 £23.378
Other liabilities .. 3,009 20,421 23,205 15,600 11,814
Advances, f o r e-
closures. etc. .. 87,087 35,303 41,459 56,692 55,282
Freeholds; etc. .. 10,718 104,465 123,813 128,343 127,000
Goodwill . .. 25,000 Nil Nil Nil Nil
The wool-people are now faced with the
most strenuous time that they have had for
very many years, and between the drought
and the war some of them are going to suffer
pretty severely. Great Britain. America
and Japan among them take only 25 p.e. of
Australia’s wool; nearly 70 p.e. goes to
continental Europe. And the continental
European market will practically disappear
for a few years. Of course it is quite pos-
sible that some enterprising Yankee or
German with some ready cash may buy up
considerable stocks, knowing that he will
get them cheaply and that the drought has
already seriously affected the lambing, and
consequently next year’s clip. However,
several of the big banks have arranged with
their customers for advances, and this will
lighten the call on the big wool firms. No
doubt those who are able to stand it will
accommodate their clients with just enough
to see them through. Then, again, the com-
plete absence of wool-sales is a serious thing,
and the wool will require to be stacked at
the station. This will mean that close on
£12,01)0,000 will be withdrawn from circu-
lation. And no wool sales mean no selling
commissions. As a result, the wool and pas-
toral cos. will be severely tried, and there
would be less weeping and wailing if they
were all as well prepared for the struggle
as Pitt, Son and Badgery.
The Adelaide Co-operative Society :
Divi- Writ*
dend Bofius on ten Re-
Prottts. (4 p.c.). Purchases. Off. serves,
Aug-., ’05.. *2390 £7BO 3§ p.c. = £1531 £251 £1332
Feb., ’06.. 3128 789 3j ~ „ 1560 523 1588
Aug., ’06.. 3150 808 3s „ „ 1597 423 1910
Feb., ’07.. 2898 845 3s „ „ 1590 282 2091
Vug., ’07.. 3989 877 4) ~ ~ 1955 573 2675
Feb., ’OB.. 4138 935 5 ~ ~ 2385 010 2883
Aug., ’OB.. 4737 1007 5 ~ ~ 2790 581 3242
Feb., ’09.. 4255 1052 5 ~ „ 3003 344 3098
Aug., ’09.. 4994 1103 5 „ „ 3182 632 3175
Feb., TO.. 4483 1179 5 „ ~ 3253 294 2932
Aug., TO.. 5877 1284 5 ~ ~ 3658 464 3403
Feb., ’ll.. 6225 1425 5 ~ „ 3872 539 3792
Aug., ’ll.. 4287 1537 3 i „ ~ 3129 522 2891
Feb., T 2.. 6743 1610 5 ~ ~ 4372 524 3122
Aug., T 2. . 8091 1652 5 ~ ~ 4744 865 3952
Feb., T 3. . 0568 1733 5 •„ „ 4765 510 3512
Aug.. T 3.. 8266 1768 5 ~ „ 4954 569 4487
Feb., T 4. . 8150 1789 5 ~ ~ 4945 600 5303
Aug., ’14.. 5245 1800 5 ~ „ 4910 629 6209
When this society was quite young, almost
too young, in fact, to take an interest in
things, its business methods became bogged,
and as no one has taken the trouble to dig
them out, they are still deep in the mud.
The most serious misfortune under which
the co. toils is .that its capital is withdraw-
able whenever the shareholders feel inclined.
Recent events in Sydney have shown that
it only requires a mild panic to cause old
maids, and sometimes business men who
should know better, to rush even the
Savings Bank and withdraw their money,
Just how an institution like the Adelaide
Co-op. would fare in a uanic of any size
is best left unsaid. And it is just at a time
when the co. .will have most need for the
cash that there will be hurried withdrawals.
The sooner shareholders modify this absurd
arrangement the better, not only for their
dividends, but for the present' security of
their capital. One direct result of this
policy is that, instead of having practically
all its cash in saleable stock, over £32,000
is in liquid assets. This- is about the only
thing that prevents. the Adelaide co. being-
one of the most successful, of Australian
co-operative societies. Its capital is
£98,349, and there are liabilities of only
£14,284. Sales are on the upward move-
ment, and show an increase of from £110,353
for the six months to August, 1913, to
£114,914 for the past half-vear. During the
half-year 582 new shareholders came in.
and 338 withdrew ; but withdrawals accounted
for £19,480 of capital, whereas new mem-
bers brought in only £15.961. The figures
for February. 1914, in that table have been
altered since last notice, and those in the last
line are subject to correction when next
half-year’s accounts disclose the amount of
bonus and dividend and the allowance for
depreciation.
* * * *
Southland Farmers’ Co-operative As-
sociation. Ltd. (Invercargill, M.L.) :
Bonus Writ-
to ten Re-
Profits. Dividends. Purchasers. Off. serves.
1904 .. £509 5 p.c. =£346 £9O £932
1905 .. 659 5 „ „ 414 134 1,043
1906 .. 1506 5 „ ~ 423 £292 125 1,709
1907 ..* 1694 54 ~ „ 641 415 150 2,197
1908 . . 554 6 „ „ 842 214 1,695
Loss.
1909 .. 263 Nil 100 1,332
Deficit.
1910 . . 0127 Nil 4,795
( Pref. Shares.)
1911 .. 344 6 p.c. = 196 —, .5,335
1912 . . 3412 6 ~ ~ 157 96 9,000
1913 ... 5568 Nil 842 15,410
Written off £-1930 .. 20.370
1914 . . 1596 . Nil 21,966
Twelve months or so back this co. got in a
new manager and gave him a heap more
power than the previous man had possessed.
The result is beginning to show. Bad debts
had been accumulated, and the big loss of
1913 was composed largely of amounts
written off to cover these losses. The £4960
shown as written off during the past year
comes off “stock and plant over valued, and
to meet bad debts,” so that mess should just
about be cleaned up. Now the directors
(there is still a whole army of them, where-
as five would make a much better job of it)
report that towards the end of the year a
profit was made. Expenses have, been
attacked savagely, and salaries, wages,
travelling and motor expenses have come
down from £9838 to £6333, and sundry
charges from £4257 to £2143. But on the
other hand commissions, etc., have dropped
from £14,011 to £8791. Several of the
company’s branches, including an unprofit-
able motor business, have been disposed of,
and the co! is wisely pushing its cash trade.
This will not only provide it with a little
money for its own purchases, but will put
a check on bad debts. Capital is only
£37.624, and to carry on its business the
co. has £46.588 of liabilities. This is how
the cleaning up has affected things:—
1913. . 1914.
Capital .. .. £31,174 £37,624
Liabilities . . . . 64,327 46,588
Property, plant, etc. .. 22,512 20,621
Stock 23,658 16,385
Sundry debtors . . 36,624 24,998
Other assets . . . . 311 241
Capital is much too small, and the co. has
very poor chances of getting in any more
at present, especially at Invercargill, where
the cocky has a habit of very carefully
examining his sixpence before he parts with
it. The co.’s only chance appears to be to
continue the present policy of extreme
economy, beginning first on the directors,
and write off the capital that has unques-
tionably been lost. Then, when it begins to
look up. it can reasonably ask for more
money. At present its interest bill must be
shuddersome.
The Ballakat Gas Co. (Vic.) :
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends, serves,
July, 1905 . . £4BOO 12 p.c, -£4050 £750 1:05,25i
Jan., 1906 .. 4455 12 „ „ 4050 40a 0a,002
Julv, 1906 .. 4112 12 „ „ 4050 62 65,i2v
.lari., 1907 . . 4376 12 „ ~ 4050 326 66,000
Julv, 1907 . . 3971 12 „ „ 4050 65,971
Jan., 1908 . . 3680 12 „ „ 4050 65,601
July, 1908 . . 3413 10 „ „ 3375 38 65,639
Jan., 1909 . . 4019 10 „ ~ 3375 644 66,283
July, 1909 . . 2319 10 „ „ 3375 65,1.2 1
Jan., 1910 .. 4425 10 ~ ,* 3375 1050 66,277
July, 1910 . . 3304 10 ~ „ 3375 66,206
Jan., 1911 .. 4586 12 „ „ 4050 030 66,14-.
July, 1911 . . 3473 12 „ „ 4050 —66,16 a
.Jan., 1912 .. 4642 12 „ „ 4050 u 92 06,iai
Julv, 1912 .. 3466 12 „ „ 4050 66,1i3
Jan'., 1913 .. 5520 12 „ ~ 4050 1470 67,643
Julv 1913 • • 4730 12 ~ ~ 4050 680 68,32..
Jan., 1914 .. 5247 12 „ „ 4050 1197 69,520
July, 1914 . . 4484 12 ~ ~ 4050 434 69,954
Profit is shown after 1500 has been written
off to cover depreciation, and as £lOOO went
the same way last year, that part of the
business appears to get proper attention.
Also, no doubt in consequence of slightly
increased profits due to .general prosperity,
reserves are now coming in for a little atten-
tion. The result is that, while they showed a
growth of only £916 between 1905 and 1912*
there have been additions since then of
£3781. Fortunately the boom times of
Ballarat enabled the gas co. to build up very
considerable reserves, and the shareholders
evidently felt justified in leaning back and
taking things easily. This is how the £ s. d.
side of affairs stands: —
July, 1904. .July, 1914.
Liquid assets .. •• £20,393 £24,391
inabilities • • • • 565 1,792
Surplus . . ..£19,828 £22,599
There is no great improvement there, but
the position is solid nevertheless. And what
improvement there is has been made after
all dividends have been paid and renewals
and repairs attended to. Gas sales during
the 10 years have moved from £12,047 to
£14,265, which is nothing to be jubilant
aboiit. #
Sydney Exchange Co.: —
Writ-
- ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
At dfc £
Dec., 1905.. 1069 6 p.c.= 900 169 16,348
June, 1906.. SO6 6., „ 900 16,254
Dec., 1906.. 1316 6., ~ 900 416 16,670
June.: 1907.. 739 6,, ~ 900 16,509
Dec., i 907. . 1186 6,, ~ 900 286 16,795
June, 1908. . 896 6„ ~ 900 16,791
Dec., 1908.. 1261 6,, ~ 900 361 17,152
June, 1909.. "1161 6,, ~ 900 261 17,413
Dec., 1906.. 1464 6„ „ 900 564 17,977
June, 1910.. 1792 6,, „ 900 1000 17,869
Dec., 1910.. 1741) 6„ „ 900 500 340 18,209
June, 1911.. 1316 6„ „ 900 416 18,625
Dec., 1911.. 1028 6„ ~ 900 128 18,753
June, 1,912.. 1242 6,, ~ 900 250 92 18,845
Dec.,' 1912.. 1854 6„ ~ 900 250 704 19,549
June, 1913.. 602 6,, ~ 900 250 - 19,001
Dec., 1913.. 2047 6„ ~ 900 750 397 19,398
June, 1914.. 1187 6,. ~ 900 287 19,685
This concern is the landlord of the fine build-
ings in Bridge-street, Sydney, where Fat con-
gregates and tells himself of the progress the
country is making towards ruin, and where
he sells wool and sundries between times.
And in addition to that, it owns the Aaron’s
Exchange Hotel freehold next door. So its
income consists chiefly of rent and the sub-
scriptions Fat pays for the privilege of con-
versing with himself. The capital is only
£30,000, and there are £20,000 of debentures.
Other liabilities total £4005. Against that
there are buildings, £69,000 (very probably
worth a great deal more) ; and liquid assets,
£5590. Profits vary a good deal, but they sel-
dom sink so low as to endanger the 6 p.c.
dividend.
* * * *
Under the N.S.W. Necessary Commodities
Act the Government last week proclaimed
that gas must not be sold in Sydney and
suburbs (exclusive of Manly) for more than
3s. 6d. per 1000 ft. —the foot being of three
dimensions. The Act was passed to prevent
speculators and others rushing up prices on
account of the war. Now it happened that
just before the war started the big Sydney
Gas Co. had decided to advance the price
from 3s. 6d. to 3s. lOd. The Government
will, however, have a hard job to connect
German William with the advance. Under
an Act passed a couple of years ago the two
Sydney cos. may charge no more than 3s. Gd.
when they are pa.vinv 10 per cent, dividend.
If they are not paying 10 per cent, they may
charge more —one penny for every £ per cent,
short of 10 per cent. From various causes
the big Sydney Co. dropped its dividend to
9 ner cent, last half-year, so it is entitled to
collect an extra 4d. Three-and-sixnence may
be quite as much as Sydney ought to pay for
gas, yet if it has to pay more it is the fault,
not of the war, but of the patchwork Act
whichthe State parliament passed in 1912.
* * * *
Broken Hill companies pricked up their
ears last week at the cable news that, in
order to secure war material, inquiries were
being made bv the British Government into
the possibility of producing 50,000 tons of
zinc a year in the United Kingdom. It is
deplorable that it should be necessary to
make such inquiries, but England has
allowed Germany to collar almost the whole
of this industry. There are smelting works
at Swansea, and the Central Zinc Company
has in recent years set Up furnaces at
Seaton Carew, hut these undertakings are
not very important. The condition of the
British industry may be judged from the
fact that, when the latter company started
Operations, an Australian metallurgist was
sent for to manage the concern, none being
available in England. The supplies _ for
these works have been drawn exclusively
from the Sulphide Corporation’s mine at
Broken Hill, hut they have not been suffi-
cient to take a quarter of the output.
The N.S.W. Government’s proposal to
start the earthworks at the Broken Hill end
of the railway to Condobolin will be nothing
but a sand-sliifting job unless it is prepared
to follow up the work with platelaying
(which, incidentally, will call for mainten-
ance), as the work will only have to be done
again when the rails are being laid. If


The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, GERMANY, etc.
New Direct Cable to Auckland from Board’s
Sydney Office opened December, 1912.
A Week End rate is now available between
Great Britain and Australasia. Rate 9d. per
word, with minimum of 15s. (20 words).
Week End Cable Letters are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain on the following Tuesday" morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “VIA PACIFIC.’’
Ordinary.
. . 3/-
. 3/-
•• -Hi
. . 2/4
Great. Britain .
Germany
New Zealand
Canada
U.S.A
Argentine, Brazil, 1
Chili and Peru /
West Indies, Central
rates on application.
Cable Forms, Deferred and
Regulations may be obtained at
Daily.
Deferred.
1/6
1/6
1/2
2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 1/4
5/S) 2/10)
America and other
Week End
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
408 Collins Street, Melbourne. Tel. 25.88'.
J. MILWARD. Manager in the Pacific,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
3JMC
WISE
MANAGERS
ALWAYS ORDER
DUNLOP
MINING & ENGINEERING
GOODS j*
THEY KNOW WHAT “DUNLOP” QUALITY
MEANS —GOOD SERVICE AND SATISFACTION.
Sample* and Tenders Submitted. Lists on Application
. DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney. Adelaide, Perth. Brisbane. Welllnston
and Christchurch.
The only way to judge and compare “Pioneer”
leather belting is to try it on your regular work—you
can do this at our expense because we guarantee to
make good any “Pioneer” belt that fails in service
through detect of material or workmanship.
“Pioneer,” the all-Australian leather belting, works
in the largest mine and power plants in Australasia,
and it gives profit building service in Fiji, Japan
and the Philippines, too. Let “Pioneer” work for
you—try out a length on your “stiffest” drive. The
centre cuts of flawless Australian ox hides —the best
materials and workmanship give “Pioneer” a grip
that never slips and that keeps all your pulleys
whirring at full speed—with less strain on shafting
and friction on bearings than any other belt.
“Pioneer” is made only by J. (J. Ludowiei and Sou
Ltd., “Pioneer” Works, 117 York-street, Sydney (opp.
Q. V. Markets). Sold in Victoria by Geo. Itussell
P’t’y Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne; South Aus-
tralia : J. McKell, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide;
Queensland: Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd., Bris-
bane; W. Australia ; Horace Summers, Howard Street,
Perth; Broken Hill: Geo. C. Dempster, Argent Street.*
* * * #
C. A. Parsons & Co. Ltd., Newcastle-on-Tyne, are
now making their geared turbines whereby the
Parsons’ Steam Turbine may be geared to a slow-
running dynamo, pump, etc. Sets up to 4000 k.w.
are already running, and a large geared turbo pump-
ing set is shortly arriving for the Metropolitan Board
of Water Supply and Sewerage, Sydney. High
efficiency is secured and the economy of the high-
speed turbine is still maintained. The Union
steamer Maheno has recently been re-engined and fitted
with geared turbines, and numerous other boats are
now running. Sole agents. William Adams and Com-
pany Limited, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and
Perth.*
* * * *
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The liardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Ileela
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficuit
problem ; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“the liardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we hare yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are
the sole representatives for them in the Common-
wealth, and will be glad to forward particulars.* [1
* * * *
Extract from The Policy-Holder, London, Novem-
ber 26, 1913:—“The Colonial Mutual has long- had
the reputation of being one of the most enterprising
and ambitious of life assurance institutions, and to
be enterprising and ambitious is to the modern mind
so very much preferable to being inert and hyper-
cautious that the Australian office may well secure the
respectful consideration of many persons for the com-
modities it offers because of its up-to-date pushfulness
alone. Only 40 years old—almost a youngster com-
pared with some of our ancient offices—the Colonial
Mutual has, from the commencement of its career
pressed forward with uncommon determination and
energy. Its growth has been remarkable.”* [7
* * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE can be laid by unskilled
labor when directions supplied with the pipes are
followed. It is the cheapest class of piping to buy.
Catalogue from the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd".,
Contractors to all State Governments, 57 York Street,
Sydney (head office).*
* * * *
The Goulburn Municipal Council, after exhaustive
inquiries, have decided to install two 128-b.h.p
“Hornsby” Suction Gas Engines and Plants, as the
motive power for their electric supply (in competi-
tion with all classes of engines and" boilers), thus
following the example set by a number of towns in
Australasia and other parts of the world, which have
already installed the “Hornsby,” with highly favor-
able results. Intending purchasers of motive power
should apply to R. Hornsby & Sons, Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.* fa
* * * *
Patents. — Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.*
In addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast Iron Pipes, Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Pro-
prietary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’' Iron-
work of every description.*
Mine managers when requiring new Steam Boilers
are invited to communicate with Babcock & Wilcox
Ltd., who have supplied their Patent Safety Water-
tube Boilers to the majority of leading mines in
Australia.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained
Colljson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * » *
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to 11. B. SILBERBERG and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain; weight; pocket transits: gasoline combination
furnaces: Morgan’s crucibles: chemicals: etc*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
relief work is necessary the obvious thing
t<> (lo is to put the men on raising ore that
can be smelted in the country. As already
mentioned, the metals could be stacked here,
and would eventually be marketed at pay-
able rates. The price of the labor would
then be represented by an asset, though the
Government has as yet been unable to see
this. If it feels that a railway is a more
permanent thing than a stack of metal, let
it tackle the railway as a business proposi-
tion. And tin* business end of the line is at
t'bndobolin. The first section of this line
would tap valuable mineral resources that
have already been proved. Mount Hope, the
big copper property of N.S.W., has been
struggling for railway connection for years.
By the beginning of the year some Lithgow
rails and later some B.H.R. Co.’s rails
could be laid, and the N.S.W. Government
would have something worth having for its
expenditure.
N.S.W. Banco Court has lately been deal-
ing tvith the complaints of some of that
iare individual, the man who prosecutes
a dubious prospectus. One Newmann had in-
vented a friction sparker for explosion
engines—really the old Hint and steel. He
alleges that he proved the device on a motor-
boat and a motor-car, but the evidence was
generally against any trial having been
made except on an unloaded engine. A con-
sulting engineer named Boss was said to
have proved the device in this way, but
under cross-examination he said that iie had
only once seen the engine running, and then
for only 10 minutes, the -brake test being
given by the friction of a plank held against
the Hy wheel at varying pressures. Yet
Boss wrote out a glowing report, and the
thing, which hadn’t had one conclusive test,
was offered as a proved commercial inven-
tion.. Newmann said that he agreed to sell
the invention to the co. for 50 shares of
£lOO each fully paid and £lOOO cash, but
ii the promoter (L. C. Johnson) received
more he was to divide with Newmann. The
prospectus did not say a word about this
arrangement. On the face of it the inventor
was to receive £3OOO cash and 100 shares
paid to £lOO. On the understanding that
they were in with Johnson on bedrock cer-
tain people underwrote shares. Johnson
represented to some that he was paid nothing
and to others that he received £2OO out-of-
pocket expenses: yet in court ho admitted
that Jio got £l4OO cash in addition thereto
and 50 p.c. of the vendor’s shares. The co.
was floated two years ago, and developments
since then, seem to prove that the thing is
valueless. Plaintiffs in each case got full
restitution of the money paid ; and the soli-
citor who is alleged to have passed the
prospectus didn’t appear for the defendant.
Vegetable Creek (N.S.W.) has struck 18in.
of poor washdirt overlying a soft bottom
dipping rapidly to the south-west. The shaft
is. about 226 ft. and a crosscut should soon
pick up the old channel, which follows a
crooked in-and-out course, finally making
eastward to the Rock shaft workings, which
produced 330 tons of tin oxide. From
Skinner’s there is a long stretch of unworked
ground between the old Rock shaft and
Chandlers. A total of 541 tons of tin oxide
has been won from this deep lead, and some-
thing like £04.000 has been realised from
sales. Vegetable has a substantial credit
balance and 25 tons of tin oxide in store, so
it should be able to do considerable develop-
ment work from Skinner’s and the Strath-
bogie shafts, without having to make a call.
* * * *
With contracts for the sale of concen-
trates suspended and the forward price of
speiter uncertain, the Amalgamated Zinc
(Broken Hill) is having rather an anxious
time. The spelter price for the sale of con-
centrates produced for the first half of this
year has been fixed at £22. The gross
profit was computed at £01,987, from 69.018
tons of concentrates, assaying 48.6 p.c. zinc.
It is stated that an extra £1 per ton for
spelter adds £lO,OOO to the profit. But
oorvTot ; tons of zinc contained in
09,.8 tons of concentrates this increase is
small. If only one-third of the zinc con-
tained in concentrates is recoverable as
spelter the foreign ore-buyer is still in
pocket. The German has had a most
decided advantage in supplying himself with
zinc in the form of 48 p.c. concentrates.
I art of our annual export of 480.000 tons
of zinc ore may be deflected to other markets,
but Germany will no doubt continue to im-
port when the fight is declared off. Taking
this view there shouldn’t be any nervousness
about outstanding settlements.
* * * *
The Zinc Corporation (N.S.W.) cannot
at present find a market for its lead and zinc
concentrates, so will have to close down.
There, is no reason to become unduly alarmed
at. this, because the Corporation' is in a
fairly strong position and will not lose by
waiting for a better metal market. During
August this concern produced 2255 tons of
zinc concentrates and 3310 tons of lead
concentrates, and reckons its income at
£30,680 and expenditure at £18.744. which
leaves, a balance of £11,936. During the
first eight months of this year the Corpora-
tion produced 54,207 tons of zinc concen-
trates and 31,842 tons of lead concentrates,
and its profit over working expenses
amounted to £112,500. One lias to remem-
ber, however, that zinc concentrates are
settled for at six months after delivery at
Broken Hill, and settlement has now become
a matter of compromise, for there is no
longer a regular market for spelter.
* * * *
“T.D.D.”: The number of comparatively
good Australians in the dress-circle of South
African mining is increasing rapidly. The
other day 1 met Eric Watson, now general
manager of the Rhodesian Broken Hill
Mines. Y\ hen there are not too many lions
or elephants at his front gate he may fre-
quently be seen stepping across to the' mine
office. 11. T. Brett, once of the Ivanhoe,
W.A., is now general-managing the rich,
deep, long and wide Falcon Copper Mine in
the Cwelo district, lie has imported a staff
of 20 Banana landers for special work on the
smelters. Krauze, a son of the Ballarat
mineralogist, bosses the New Primrose, one
of the oldest and richest Rand outcrop
shows. Armstrong, of the B. 11. Prop, and
Block 10. now underground-engineers the
four De Beers diamond mines for a paltry
consideration. And of course there is also
myself, but modesty forbids, etc.
* * * *
Thus an excited daily: “Brisbane Stock
Exchange has reopened, thus setting an
example to the world.” Brisbane is surely
the most humorous financial centre on earth.
A mining co. floated there has generally
200,000 shares and a working capital of
2s. !)d. ; and a turnover of 50 Glaiimire and
Monklands and 25 Great Easterns is about
the extent of a day’s mining deals. It
doesn’t seem much to set an example to the
world with.
* * * *
The Anakie (Q.) sapphire miners are feel-
ing the loss of a market for their products.
Germany, until quite lately, handled the
bulk of the Queensland gem stones. A recent
meeting of the miners decided to ask the
Mines Department, the Agent-General, the
High Commissioner, the States’ Commercial
Representatives in the various centres, also
firms and buyers to take steps to secure a
market for the stone. All of which seems
very numerous, but very stupid. The market
for gems is largely sentimental, except for
the machine stone, and even this is not
exempt from the business rule that with
numerous sellers the buyer is bound to score.
The Government of Queensland has, no doubt,
come to the conclusion that the Anakie in-
dustry will never be handled satisfactorily
until its selling agency is confined to one
channel. It may be a crime to force prices
up, but it is worse to allow the other chap to
force them down. And this is what the
Anakie miner, through his indifference to
co-operation and his neglect of sound Protec-
tionist principles, is doing. The only way
to set up Australian lapidary schools that
will handle, classify, cut, export and realise
the product of the field is to place an export
duty upon the crude ore, and it is very un-
likely that the miners would take this lying
down. Meanwhile the technically-trained and
Government-supervised Fritz has let out two
more holes in his belt. Some time ago the
Anakie miners nearly did a good thing. When
Kerr was the leading light they decided to
pool their stone, and allow it to pass through
one channel to the buyer. Francis H. Snow
was selected for the job, and negotiations
were begun for bringing out to Australia men
who could properly handle the product at this
end and get it into the form that buyers re-
quired. But a Sapphire Miners’ Association
official got loose with some of the assets, and
the whole thing fell through. The present
seems a good time to get going again on these
lines, but this time the miners had better put
their trust in Government officials.
* * * *
A little Melbourne crowd, led by “Thun-
derbolt” Pratt, is getting Federal funds to
help it test the Coronet Hill formations,
Northern Territory. The originals at the
show got down to water level, passing
through veins of oxidised copper ore. A
tunnel driven by Andy Kelly (brother to
Bowes) hasn’t brought to light much ore,
though there are indications of sulphides
underfoot. Kelly bumped into the old shaft
15ft. above the bottom, and, by hard baling,
got the water out and struck a 9ft. lode of
84 p.c. copper, carrying also 20oz. silver and
lldwt. gold. But until the co. gets down
below the water level it won’t know whether
Coronet Ilill is to better Mount Balfour,
where Andy also wooed fortune. T. G.
Oliver watches the work for the State.
* * * *
Bendigonians are trying to decide whether
they or J. H. Niemann ought to put up the
cash for the final dash over the Broken Hill
Gold and Copper Co.’s formations, which
Niemann’s process was to make payable
Reading his report the blunder made was in
providing a plant before there was plenty
of ore to operate on. This may not be
Niemann s fault, because no directors ought
to let an inventor loose unless they have a
big bank balance and a stack of ore. With
a mine in hand Niemann couldn’t have com-
plained that, owing to lack of funds, he had
had to put off miners and treat only poor
stuff. All he wants is another £50(1 Pali
ii " has had years of experience in
call-paying, has got into the show and might
advance that sum. But it ought to insist
on an independent opinion of the mine and
the process at the same time.
Hope Extended, Beaufort (Vic.), beat
shareholders for six calls last half-year, and
then had to close down, so the Board says,
because of the war and the closing of the
Stock Exchanges. What really caused the
trouble was that work in the Hope lead
disclosed unpayable wash. “Character
splendid,” says the Board, but what is the
use of a character when the seat is out of
one’s pants, and there is no frock coat to
hide the gaps?
Stawell (Vic.) won't know for a while
yet whether Dick Hamilton, of the Great
Boulder, will recommend his Board to take
on the Magdala-Mooulight shows. The lodes
are big enough, but, as Hamilton intends to
go to 1400 ft., the enticements in the upper
levels of the three formations cannot have
been particularly alluring. He seems to have
spent £lO,OOO on the mine already, and has
wheedled £.">000 out of the State Govern-
ment to supplement a further £">000 to be
spent by the co. Seeing that Hamilton has
riddled all the uoper formations, most of this
cash is pretty sure to go into the deep
ground. Growlers think that Peacock should
have turned down Hamilton’s application for
a £ for £ grant; but the money will be well
spent if it lands: the Boulder Co. in Victoria,
for the Westraljan co. will need £lOO,OOO to
get the mines under way.
The Oaks golcHnine (N.Q.), although short
of water, has crushed .100 tons for 4G4oz.
gold. Costs run to 10s. 4d., which is un-
comfortably close to an extraction worth
about 10s. Gd. The items are: Mining, os.
lid.; milling, 45.; water supply. Is. 21d;
and The Bulletin takes the liberty of add-
ing one farthing per ton for oil.
E. D. Miles, of Charters Towers < Queens-
land), has applied for a lease of IS acres
adjoining the New Queen Central and the
Bonnie Dundee, which recently located a
new shoot of stone in its crosscut at 1750 ft.
vertical. The lease applied for includes the
old North Queen, on winch a shaft has been
sunk below 1700 ft., so there is only a short
distance to sink to get on the same level as
the Bonnie Dundee crosscut. This group
round the Bonnie gives some slight hope of
a market revival, and the oldest share-
broker on the Towers would gladly work a
few shifts to waken things up again.
The annual report of the Great Fitzroy
(Q.) shows a loss of £12,234. To attain this
poor result 04,457 tons of crudes were con-
centrated, and 22,60 S tons smelted, for 1930
tons copper, 58420 z. gold, and 22,0380 z. sil-
ver. The average pans out 2.1 p.c. pure
copper, 2dwt. gold, and sdwt. silver, worth
about 40s. Working costs were 345. 6d., but
this doesn’t include charges for plant depre-
ciation, office exes., refining and realising,
and it is really because these items make
such a big total that the Fitzroy has got into
debt. The furnaces treated in 10 months
(the actual working time) 22,698 tons of
pyritic ore and 12,995 tons of concentrates.
Mount Morgan declined to pay the price
(said to be £75,000) asked for the Laloki
mine in Papua, and the one bright spot in
the Fitzroy’s report is that Laloki has shown
good developments since the option was
turned down.
» * * *
Victory, Charters Towers, hands out a
3d. dividend, but shares on the local ’Change
drag at Is. The clean-up in August from
138 tons averaged over £l2 per ton, making
£4365 from 439 tons in three months. Stopes
that average from 4in. to Sin. of stone re-
quire to be extensively worked to produce
13S tons. There are 200,000 shares, which
quite accounts for the lack of enthusiasm.
Other mines on the Towers are doing only
moderately well. The Brilliant Extended
made a small loss of £l7O last month, and it
is the only claim on the Towers that men-
tions whether it makes a loss or a profit.
Brilliant Deeps promises to keep 15 head
crushing. Its four weeks’ return was 790
tons for £2528, with some concentrates in
hand. No. 7 east is in 165 ft., with from
Sin. to 12in. of mineralised stone on the
haneing-wall side of the drive. The forma-
tion is so wide that the footwall section of
the reef is out of sight. Bonnie Dundee
has shifted its office to Brisbane in anticipa-
tion of a better market. A trial lot of 61
tons averaged £2 9s. 10d., which isn’t too
good. There is a big area to be explored
between the crosscut level (1750 ft.) and
the upper workings at 1585 ft. The crosscut
was started at the bottom of an underlay
shaft.
* * * #
Pioneer Tin (Tas.) for 12 months to June
30 made a profit of £35,133, and shelled out
3s. 6d. per share (£28,215L Tin averaged
£177 11s. Sd. This concern reckons it can
produce tin oxide at less than £26 per ton,
and no doubt it can when one of its electric
plants is right up against a face of prime
wash. The report, however, rather spoils
this picture when it mentions that 694,600
cub. vds. were sluiced by the various plants
for an average of 1.5561 b. of black tin at a
cost of 4.573 d. per yard. It is good, but
figures out at about £29 per ton of black tin.
The Pioneer, however, expects to recover
IMb. of tin oxide at a cost of 4d.. which is
certainly hard to beat. The output for the
year was 4854 tons of black tin, and the
profit £35,133, a result which indicates a
very favorable market.
* * * *
Briseis (Tas.) produced seven tons of tin
oxide last month, and sends along a cheerful
bit of news that the Ringarooma River has
been turned. This will enable the washdirt
extending from Krushka’s flat to be worked
beneath the bed of the river. The Wallaji
dredges contributed 5770 z. in August, and,
although there are now a small fleet of
dredges, a nrofit doesn’t cut up well among
(>OO,OOO Briseis shares. Shareholders re-
ceived £30,000 in 1911, £45,000 in 1912,
£30,000 in 1015. The total output in these
three fat years was 10264 tons of black tin
and 21,4220?5. of gold.
Pioneer Tin (Tas.) moves on under Cecil
G. Ryan’s sway. The drought knocked out
most of the north-east coast shows, but the
Pioneer’s total of 571,000 cub. yards of
drift sluiced was only 50,000 cub. yards less
than that handled for the same term of
1913. To even matters, costs came down
Id. and tin contents went up from 1.5471 b.
to 1.7281 b. per cub. yard. This was because
the co.’s plants are now working close to-
gether, and the clean up of the bottom brought
out big returns. A fine margin of profits
will remain, in face of a further drop in the
price of tin, because the Pioneer last year,
even with conditions adverse, kept costs at
£25 11s. Bd. per ton of stream tin. As Ryan
counts on saving another three-farthings per
yard when things are normal there isn't
much to worry over at the Pioneer, except
the drought. To date the drift that has been
shifted amounts to a dump of 6,172,500 cub.
yards, and the stream tin record is 5204
tons. Ryan is now trying bis band on the
Argonaut on the other side of the Blue Tier,
and he scratches round the South Pioneer.
These are small fry compared with the Pio-
neer, but their profits are just as sweet.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page 3d/.)


✓
Cflidiijr’cidji'i* d4h
HEERING
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
TEN YEARS OLD.
BUCHANAN’S
Black White,
A GRAND SPIRIT
“ Black & White ” is indeed a “ grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, Septembek 21, 1914.
My Dear Arini, —
Melba lias been bustling round the details
of her Patriotic chirp in the Town Hall.
Our municipal barn will need a new pair of
elastic sides for the occasion (September 26)
as the booking ought to fill the place to its
uttermost door.
Ex-Prime Minister Cook made a hurried
dash this way last week, to witness the knot-
tying at his son’s wedding. Miss Elsie Shep-
pard, the bride, is a trained nurse, and her
occupation is only second to soldiering in
popularity just now. The affair took place
at Bunvood —where the roses and fat mos-
quitoes come from—in the presence of a large
gathering of admiring friends and relatives.
G. G. Munro-Ferguson bustled off to the
Kensington camp soon after his arrival here
on Saturday morn. After rushing round
Bananaland’s contribution to the khaki move-
ment, his Scotchbyterian Ex. will hurry back
to Sydney the end of this week. Having shed
bis plumed A.D.C. warriors to the fray he
gets round with a depleted bodyguard of
plain citizen or anything handy he can snatch
for the billet, but the getting round doesn’t
lake a cold chill in spite of the absence of
feathers.
Minister for Education Carmichael and his
wife are just back after five months scamper
over Europe. Mr. Carmichael told a Sun
interviewer of his varied emotions on seeing
the German soldier high-step in Berlin to
the tune of the British National _ Anthem.
Seeking an explanation from the British Am-
bassador, he got a half-truth from that big-
wig, who said the German National Anthem
was “practically the same” as the English.
The voice of authority puts this dreary old
melody to the credit of one John Bull (1563-
1628) and to Henry Carey (1692-1743).
“Most likely,” says the same voice, _ “it was
evolved earlier from an old English folk-
song.” It first leapt into popular note as an
anti-Jacobite ditty in 1745. Later the
ancient English tune was adopted by the
Danes. It was stolen by the Prussians in
1796. The TJ.S.A. adapted the same much-
pirated air for the inspiring words written
by Samuel Francis Smith, “My Country, ’tis
of Thee!” Germany has much the same claim
to our dull old National Anthem as it has to
Alsace and Lorraine.
“Hop” saw journalist Pat Quinn and his
wife and tall young daughter during his brief
stay in ’Frisco. The Australian triplet
looked well, though they spoke of Sydney
with a twinge of home-sick affection for its
far-off fleshpots and eucalypts.
Governor Strickland is lunching the new
Anglican Bishop of the Apple Island to-dav
(Mondav). Even bishops are not entirely
indifferent to entrees. The duty of trying
on an official halo, at St. Andrew’s
Cathedral —in the presence of a clerical host
—earlier in the day, ought to have given
the brand new Lawn Sleeves a sharpened
appetite. He is a Victorian, I think, and
his name is Stephen.
Concerning the tragic fate of the lost sub-
marine AEI in the Pacific, an Australian
says: “During a visit to Southsea, England,
last vear, I heard a curious sailor yarn to
the effect that the letter A before a sub-
marine’s other nameless sign, was as un-
lucky as sailing on Friday, the 13th of the
month.”
Dolores, singing her best, gave the Bed
Socks’ battalion a helpful financial prod, as
the result of her recent concert in the Town
Hall. A bare-backed brigade _ of young
women from our most expensive suburbs
sold anything from bunting to butterscotch
they had been able to lay hands on.
Some of these damsels revealed so much
spinal column that spectators who were
perched aloft began to get quite smart at
picking out the owners of the various backs
which busliranged the hall. Mrs. Grace
Miller Ward was boldly dramatic in her fine
contribution of an air from Verdi’s “Atilla.”
Mrs. Alex. Gordon, closer to her old vocal
form as Margaret Thomas than she has been
in one or two recent warbles for charity,
unfortunately spilt her pretty voice on such
a banal old trifle as “Darby and Joan.” In
a long programme Henri Staell went up top
for bis fiddling of St. Saens’ “Andante.”
On the sub-regal mat sat Governor Strick-
land's eldest treasure, daughter Mary, with
Gen. Finn and his wife and daughter in the
offing. The C.J. Cullens inclined their ears
to the tuneful lay of tenor Philip Wilson,
who promptly took the place of Newbury—
too indisposed to appear. (This invalid ouerht
to see about these frequent attacks of indis-
position before lie starts for India, where
curried liver is said to be a catching com-
plaint for delicate travellers.) Wilson’s
beautiful tenor fights its way through his
half-closed teeth. In consequence the words
fall down his throat. The English singer’s
vocal method is in distinct contrast to the
old Marchesi style. Observe Melba open her
mouth to let out the humble words —so
despised by the Wilson school of singers.
Flo Young, who was also taught by the same
old Marchesi, never swallows a syllable of
a song. Gerald Cooper was accompanist to
the Wilson songs without words.
The frenzied desire of two-thirds of the
feminine population to sew with violence for
the cause from morn till dusty eve, comes, to
a head in the Town Hall. Here the Sewing
Circle, which was whipped into line by Mrs.
Mayoress Richards, emits the continued buzz
of innumerable machines, and shirts are made
in a twinkling. Industrious persons more
or less buried in-pyjamas emerge flushed and
triumphant towards sundown, with the air ot
Mrs. Mac Stinger after a domestic earth-
quake. No one has swallowed a knitting-
needle or a mouthful of pins to date, but
the general excitement is certainly going to
boil over somewhere —possibly in the kit-
chens of the Red Socks brigade, where the
mere Husband cooks his own potatoes.
The Billions Club lunched the Consuls of
the allied countries the other noon. By hang-
ing over a rail in mid-air it was possible to
get a bird’s-eye view of the feast, which was
heavily garnished ivith suitable bunting.
French-Consul Chayet wrestled valiantly
with the Anglo-Saxon language, and told the
company that after four years’ residence in
Germany he had left it with the fear that the
present fight was inevitable. It was even
then in the air. Belgian-Consul Watteeuw
made a few agitated remarks re the kindness
of Australia to his suffering little country.
Jap-Consul Shimizu, in fluent English,
hurled his opinion of the foe over the lunch-
eon-room. A gentleman named Welsh (pre-
sumably the Bear’s local trade agent or rep-
resentative here) looked as Russian as possi-
ble under the circumstances, and handed out
a cold collation of preserved statistics con-
cerning the Slav population. The long, thin
Sydney militia man, Major Vernon (a son
of the late Government architect) was pre-
sented with a wristlet timepiece. Towards
the end of the speeches a huge Frenchman,
peacefully eating his lunch at another table,
paused to take charge of the “Marseillaise”
in a rolling baritone, and was violently
shaken by the hand till the coffee came
round.
The hint I gave you a week or two ago
re the prospect of our famous knight of the
lancet, MacCormick. going to the I rench
battle-ground is officially confirmed. The
conquering Alexander will hurry from these
shores with the fleet that carries Australia s
big Expeditionary squad.
Miss Valerie Davenport’s young man, a
German woolbuyei*, who made many friends
in this town, had the bad luck to be torn
from his sweetheart, and ordered off to fight
for his infuriated country. What a pest
these modern inventions, such as wireless
and cable lines, are, to be sure! No good
pretending that you don t know that an en-
raged Kaiser is bounding up against most of
the map. So the unlucky man of wool-bales,
who was on his peaceful journey to Aus-
tralia, home and beauty, had to turn back
and take up his battery for the fray.
Artists A. J. Daplyn and Henry Fullwood
ought to be nearing Hornsby Lighthouse,
after a sprint through Art on the other side.
Clubs, like novelists, are often hard-up for
fine, full-flavored names. The Cocoa Tree
Club (London), where solicitor Richardson
Clark, of this settlement, was putting up a
few weeks ago, appears to have got over the
difficulty. A sign of this kind is at once
soothing and picturesque, and suggests a
supper of the kind approved by Archdeacon
Boyce, who is now in Europe. But a Tripe
Club would sound even better.
Giffard Maearthur King, a warrior in the
militia A.F.A. (for your benefit. Arini, this
armed force is Australian Field Artillery), is
going to unsheath the glittering sword at
the same ivell-known address in Europe.
Bride Thelma will remain at home to count
the days till the Russian Bear hugs the
Allies in the great street called TJnter den
Linden. She is the attractive daughter of a
well-known Cumberland (N.S.W.) orehardist
named Pearce, and her wedding is about two
weeks old.
Journalist Kenneth Gordon and his bro-
ther, of Walgett, are mentioned as having
left the Thames city for Germany about the
date when the first gun went off and the
"l-enadiers of Austria (alleged to be “proper
men and tall”) scuffled to the front The
Gordons were booked to leave via Canada
for Australia on September 2.
Commissioner George Reid’s eldest son,
Douglas, has snatched up his helmet and
mounted his fiery steed. He belongs to a
British troop called King Edwards Horse.
This must be a militia force, for Douglas is
generally busy attacking the inkpot as secre-
tary to his father.
According to the gospel of the Westmin-
ster Gazette, Eton (for Heaven’s sake, call
it “Aytoun,” to show that you belong to the
Upper Circles’ housemaids’ set, Arini!) has
just had a wigging for slovenliness from Major
General Davies, an Imperial soldier This
warrior inspected the Eton College Officers
Training Corps about the time the British
Fleet was coaling for trouble in the North
Sea. He told these junior sprigs of the aris-
tocracy that, though a man could fight just
as well with long hair and dirty boots, and
a generally sloppy appearance, it was usual,
on the parade ground anyhow, for soldiers
to wear their locks close-cropped and make
the extra sacrifice of cleaning their boots.
As the London press in general has been rub-
bing it into Eton over the poor appearance
of its College Training Corps, its young
noblemen are likely to rush the barber before
they face another inspection. Remembering
the' length of the Hon. Billy Grosvenor’s
locks, which hung over his collar behind, and
the dangling boot-laces that cheerful youth
dragged round Kensington at a recent polo
match, I suppose the Right People don’t
worry about trifles.
Kenneth Stephen, a young son of the late
G. B. Stephen, K.C., has plighted his troth
to Dorothy Rennie. Kenneth is not addicted
to the law, like most of the Stephen family.
He pursues the less tangled thread of mer-
cantile profits in the Australian Tobacco
Co.’s huge premises. His best girl, who is
just back from a trip overseas, is the good-
looking daughter of Dr. George Rennie, of
this township.
< )n September 26, 1907, Maoriland took
down its shutters for the first time as a
Dominion —a step up from the infantine
name “colony.” This splendor, which fell
upon it by Royal Signature, is toasted every
year on the day. On behalf of the Maori-
land Government, Geyserland’s agent in
Sydney (Mr. - Blow) will, therefore, feed
about 50 representative and healthy appe-
tites at Farmer’s Cafe, on Monday, Septem-
ber 28, 1914. A stiffening of local politi-
cian will be reinforced by the presence of
some leading Maorilanders in residence here.
Notably, general-manager Owen Cox, of
Birt and Co.; Dr. Stopford (the Stanmore
medico who makes a hobby of bullpups), and
timber-merchant Blakey, whose cargoes
tramp the high seas behind Auckland and
this blue water front.
The Flower Carnival for the Red Cross
cashbox is going to raid the public pocket on
the Sydney Cricket Ground. The date f Octo-
ber 3) bumps against the first dress parade
of the Spring Meeting. So exhausted Society,
which is likely to refrain from making socks
for one day, is unlikely to tear itself away
from Rand wick to the Battle of Blooms. The
unofficial events, not mentioned in connec-
tion with the choice of a Queen of the Car-
nival, will probably include a skirmish
between the rival claimants for the beauty
prize who will tread on each other’s hats to
a finish.
At last there is a special mention of a
wedding which is not labelled “Patriotic”!
Miss Nellie Meares—a member of the Mud-
gee pastoralist familv of that name —said “I
will” the other day (in a duck of a dress that
was noted by one or two engaged damsels
present) to' Eric Griffin. The ’groom
is a son of manager Griffin, who tots
up the ledgers in the Commercial Bank, Par-
ramatta. He is a relative of the Suttor clan,
and the clan was present in some force. So
were the bride’s numerous connections,
named Cox —of the Mudgee tribe —who also
sent strong reinforcements to the party.
Dr. Leslie Dunlop, the fine, upstanding
Australian who has been in charge of Syd-
ney Hospital for the last year or two, is
rushing to the place where Don Caesar de
Bazan wanted to meet his finish. His breast
is expanding to the ball as captain of an
army medical corps. His male parent is the
Dr. Dunlop who used to be so well known
round the Ispwieh (Q.l mileage, though now
he dwells on the picturesque locks of subur-
ban Wollstonecraft. Young Dunlop was a
brilliant graduate of Sydney ’Varsity, so he
must know an awful lot about mere splints.
Can anybody give one —even half a one
would do at a pinch—good reason for the
arrival of four trained nurses from Ply-
mouth by the Mooltan? They were rushed
out of England to join or boss the bandaging
corps on Hospital Ship No. B—the8 —the craft that
used to be called the Grantala. It is hard
to be moved to tears over the belated appear-
ance of these serge-clad ladies, because our
own highly-qualified Nightingales had the
first claim to take a hand in nursing our own
men. The male-nurse contingent, which
came in the same P. and O. boat, is also
doomed to admire this scenery till something
or other happens—possibly the big expedition
may swallow the lot. Anyhow, these naval
nurses from Britain may be invoiced as the
outposts of the great rush of Woman that is
threatening this continent from overseas
lands.
The John Toohey dame, in her leafy eyrie
at Wahroonga, is one of the most persistent
battlers for the Red Socks cause. She is
organising anything she can catch amongst
the well-off unemployed, and filling it up with
knitting yarn and instructions, till some of it
takes to bridge and drowns its sorrows in
strong tea at 11 a.m.
Mrs. Alick Cox and daughter Madge, from
this settlement, are living for the present on
the comparatively peaceful Thames shore.
They were in Switzerland a while ago, but
made an uneventful exit from that bumpy
little republic before the war-gong sounded.
The Salon de Luxe show for the Alex-
andra Hospital began at the wrong end.
Grace Palotta auctioned dolls at the tail of
the entertainment, when bidders were cold
and bankrupt with the rush of hurling pence
at patriotic songs. The show itself was
attractive, except the singing. Owing to
the difficulty of warbling into a hollow shell
of roof, a masked lady’s efforts to reproduce
the Italian language may be mentioned
amongst the minor casualties. The kiddies’
fancy-dress procession brought the usual
Britannias to the front. John Bull, a fine, beefy
young Cornstalk, got away with a prize.
Special Edition. War News —a little maid
in a saucy newspaper frock —also caught
the judge’s approving glance. Belgium—a
small damsel in the peasant garb of that
distressful country—was another prize-
winner. Mrs. J. C. Williamson’s pretty
youngster. Viola, was a charming little
Frenchwoman, but mamma refused to let
her take the proffered prize and gave it
back to the Cause. Mrs. J.C.W., hand-
some Frances Ross (over here for a week or
two), Nellie Stewart and artist Souter were
the judges. Mr. J. Fane Mullins (hon-
orary treasurer) made an impressive speech,
thanking everybody, except the men who
were clearing away the chairs, with a noise
like the bang of firearms. Manager Michael
Joseph gave the use of the Salon free of
charge.
The annual meeting of the Prisoners’ Aid
Association recently told the glad tidings of
its good works during the past year. The
heavy part of the evening’s narrative circled
round the male offender who has fallen by
the way into the arms of the Law. The
good Samaritans present also included the
feminine committee, which looks after the
lady prisoners. Mrs. B. R. Wise made an
optimistic speech, and handed a bouquet of
gratitude to the authorities for their helpful
attitude. Mrs. F. Plomley, who dwells by
Manly’s wave —when she isn’t bustling after
some cause that uplifts something or other
-—sat near by, and gave her moral support
to the Association. She is president of the
Women’s committee.
Baritone Herbert Radeliffe, of these parts,
recently took his impressive voice on a South
of England tour as soloist with the famous
Coldstream Guards Band. The musical direc-
tor of this trip was Captain and Dr. Mac-
kenzie Rogan. A song that caught on was
Oswald Anderson’s “One Tender Thought.”
Oswald hails from Manly’s surfing shore.
J. Macarthur Onslow, M.L.A., is going to
toss his plumes as commanding-officer of a
local Light Horse regiment. How soon or
how late depends on the decision of
Kitchener.
According to the British Australasian
Professor Gilbert Murray, a brother of
Papua’s Excellency J. H. P. Murray, has
been bidden to the chair formerly warmed by
the late Sir W. Anson as a trustee of the
British Museum and the mummies and stuffed
images thereof.
Life and Labor, a little monthly magazine
of a slim pamphleteer waist-measurement,
comes this way from Chicago. It is an out-
pouring of the faith of the U.S.A. National
Women’s Trade Union League. For the sake
of two Australians who are interested in its
going and coming, one would like to see more
advts. and less speech-making in its columns.
Still it is probably regarded as the voice of
Woman when she sticks her bodkin into the
U.S.A. sweater, so the commercial side goes
slow. For a work of its size it has a gener-
ous helping of editors. Alice Henry (formerly
a. Melbourne journalist) and Stella Miles
Franklin, of N.S.W. (whose precocious pro-
mise of a conspicuous literary career has not
yet arrived), are editors. There is an asso-
ciate-editor, also a departmental editor. In
addition, there’s an executive secretary. The
latter official would. I suppose, cheerfully
execute the printer’s devil in time of stress if
the four editors would sign his death
warrant. Life and Labor is the nucleus, of
a useful woman’s magazine on trades-union
lines. But it needs a large, fat slab of blue
pencil (from a fifth editor) and the priceless
aid of a brisk canvasser for advts.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.
The news was published in Sydney last
week that a bookmaker had been taking Aus-
tralian 10s. notes for £lO notes, and been
giving change accordingly. If there is any-
body who should know the money of his
own country at sight it is the bookie, and
when you pass a shekel on him and he
gives change for a talent no one
sympathises.
“Cow’s Hoof”: Inclosed please find a
dollar to back the South Aus. cocky for
the Mean and Mingy Stakes. Last week
Adelaide had its Show, and the town was
full of the Backbone. The S.A. Farmers’
Co.-op. Union availed itself of the occasion
to nail a collection box to its door post, with
the printed announcement that the Patriotic
Fund could do with some help. Five days
later a grand clearance of the box was held,
to tally up what the 400 or 500 Backbones,
who had passed it going in or out, had con-
tributed. This is where you hold your
breath —2^d.!
“Reconstructed”: When, at the age of
18, I lost most of my natural fangs in a
dentist’s studio, I reflected sorrowfully that
I would never be able to drill for my
country. Years afterwards, when I had to
get behind eyeglasses, I considered that I
had been placed definitely in second
last row of national defenders. Yet, the
other day, I saw several warriors, at least
one of whom was a private, marching off
to engage the enemy arrayed in spectacles.
Now at what stage of the battle does the
fighting man tear off his glasses? Does he
wait until he sees red, or is it unsafe to see
red through glass? The crash of conflict-
ing spectacles must be one of the deafening
horrors of modern war.


The New Hudson
“Big' Six” Twin
MODEL 8a
£9B/10/
6-H.p. Twin Cylinder.
Three Speed Model.
sdf
The New Hudson
“Big Six” is a com-
pletely new model of
substantial design
and splendid finish.
It is thoroughly effi-
cient and powerful
enough to climb any hill in Australia or anywhere else.
The most practical and efficient passenger model, and the embodiment
of power and comfort, with consistent dependability.
Specially built for side-car work, it provides all the power you can require
for any emergency, and its speed is only limited by your desire.
Fitted with Armstrong Motor 3-Speed Gear, 191.4 type, with large clutch
area, it provides free engine with 3 speeds of carefully proportioned
ratios.
Call and see this splendid model when you are in town.
Shall we send you Catalogue 836? It is post free on request.
BENNETT 8 BARBELL Ltd.
Agents for New Hudson, Triumph and Rudge-Whitworth Motor-Cycles,
Manufacturers of the B. & B. Motor-Cycles.
124=132 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
HARDY BROTHERS
LIMITED.
VICE-REGAL
dsf
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
dsf
Silver-mounted Sealskin
Wallet, with pockets -for
Stamps, Cards & Letters,
£l/13/-
Others from £l/2/-
SPECIAL TERMS FOR
PUBLIC PRESENTATIONS
MILITARY WRIST WATCHES
FIELD GLASSES, WALLETS
And a Large Variety of Other
Gifts Suitable for Men.
INSPECTION INVITED.
sdf
sd
Gentleman’s Lever Wristlet Watch, with
Leather Strap. The movement screws in,
and is practically dustproof.
SILVER £3/15/-
GOLD £9 10/-
Similar Style—Silver, £2/16/-; Gold, £6/10 -
A Full Range of Prismatic Field Glasses
in all. the Latest Models and Sizes.
Particulars on application.
13 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY; 118 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
LONDON AGENCY : 32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET, W.
AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
You Should Read.
WHXDig
9V
no
A few of the Eighty vol-
umes in the “ Bookstall ”
Series of Australian Books.
Obtainable from all Book-
stalls and Booksellers.
ALL ONE PRICE
fsd
1/- each.
“ÜBIQUE,”
liv CLARENCE W. MARTIN.
“THREE YEARS WITH THUNDER-
BOLT,’’
By AMBROSE PRATT.
“THE CONVICT PUGILIST,”
By GEO. COCKER ILL.
“A ROGUE’S LUCK,”
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
“A BACHELOR’S WIFE,”
By M. FORREST.
“THE ADVENTURES OF LOUIS
BLAKE,”
By LOUIS BECKE.
“SPATS’ FACT’RY,”
By EDWARD DYSON.
“IN RACING SILK,”
By GERALD R. BALDWIN.
“SCOTTY MAC—SHEARER,”
By R. S. TAIT.
“A CURATE IN BOHEMIA,”
By NORMAN LINDSAY.
1/1 posted.
“BY HIS EXCELLENCY’S COM-
MAND,’’
By ROY BRIDGES.
“TOM PADGIN, PIRATE,”
By E. J. BRADY.
“BINDAWALLA,”
By THOMAS E. SPENCER.
“BASE BRANDS,”
By 11. M. SOMER.
“STELLA SOTHERN,”
By I. A. ROSENBLUM.
“THE GOLDEN KANGAROO,”
By AMBROSE PRATT.
“THE TRADER,”
By C. ROSS-JOHNSON.
“MUM DAWSON—BOSS,”
By SUMNER LOCKE.
“THE SPELL OF THE BUSH,”
By JOHN X. CAMERON.
“JOHN VANE, BUSHRANGER,”
BY CIIAS. WHITE.
A New Book by Edward Dyson
“ LOVES OF LANCELOT.”
A series of extremely humorous love stories.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
fsd
Made in Great Britain.
Look for the Red S sign in all our Shop Windows
General Management for Australasia —Stephen Court, 77-79 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
City Showrooms—l Queen Victoria Markets, 8 673 George St, Haymarket, Sydney,


esa
CLOTHING COMFORT
Farmer’s Two-piece Suits (Coat and Trousers)
find immediate favor with men seeking: to dress
with coolness, and yet with due regard to a smart
appearance. Stylishly made in a variety of Smart
Fabrics, they are not only tbe acme of coolness and
comfort, but look like m,:de-to-measure garments,
wln'lst costing much less.
FARMER'S TWO-PIECE SUITS
Each suit embodies the latest-style points—Coats
with soft, roll collar, 2 buttons, centre seam and
vent; Trousers made to wear with braces or belt,
side straps on hips, side and hip pockets, cuff or
plain bottoms.
FANCY STRIPED FLANNELS
35/=, 40/=, 45/=, 50/=
PRICES
FROM:
35/=
FLANNELS IN NAVY,
GREY (3 shades) and
LOVAT EFFECTS,
45/= and 50/=
Fancy Vests to go with above suits from 7/6.
WE PAY THE CARRIAGE.
FARMER'S,
PITT, MARKET &
GEORGE STREETS,
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, September 21,1911.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Conductor Bertie Zelman says that few
men had the honor that befell him on the
Patriotic concert night. He “conducted”
Melba as a unit in his orchestra ! It came
about this way. In the midst of the excite-
ment Melba lost her head, grabbed a stick
or brick or battleaxe, or something, and
started banging a drum that happened to be
out of action for the moment, /elman was
shocked and infuriated at first. He reached
for his rifle to deal with the sacrilegious
offender. And then he saw it was Melba.
The weapon dropped from his weakened
hands, ltage was ousted by joy and pride.
The music proceeded on its way, broken at
intervals by crashes from the place in the
wings where Melba was at work. I under-
stand that the drum is to be kept for ever
in Zelman’s family, and handed down from
sire to son as an heirloom.
Colonel Legge, who has been representing
us at the British War Office, is back looking
more beautiful than ever.
Elfrida Clements, who was here with the
Asehe-Braytons, lias annexed, or been secured
by, an Australian husband. He is Lieutenant
Roger Rede, R.N., and all that my runners
have been able to find out about him so fai-
ls that he once played lacrosse for Toorak,
and is now in tin' North Sea. Meagre details,
I grant you, my dear, but these are mysteri-
ous times when information is as scarce as
it is difficult to push past the eye of the
censor. Did I mention that he is a son of
Colonel Rede of these parts? Anyhow, he is.
Melbourne owns at least one practical'
patriot—a woman. She has not got an
advt. out of any fund subscription, but has
done her share by reducing the rents of her
houses all round. Her tenants are fainting
all over the place from shock. And in view
of the normal habits of landlords, it is hard
to blame them.
The untoward absence of Lesley Madden
leaves an unbridgable gap, not to say an
unfillable hole, in the front ranks of sassiety
workers. The picturesque young woman has
been suffering from bouts of illness, and is at
present recuperating on an Osborne sheep-
inn. Two members of the Pat Osborne clan
are brothers-in-law of hers.
The Mayoress, Mrs. Herbert Brookes,
Mrs. Wiedemann and the rest of the
prominent people whom I told you
about last week duly gave that welcome
on Friday to Dolores. It was at the house
of Mrs. Barrett —Ileimath, Toorak. It also
snread over the garden, which is a wonderful
place of reserved bush and native animals
and —but I told you all about the garden
before. Mrs. Barrett looked cool in grey,
and so did her reception rooms in pink and
white blossom. Dolores, who arrived with
Madame Viardot, sported a cunning bonnet
with a grey feather blowing from the fore-
head and a dash of Frenchy-looking cherry
color somewhere in the lining. She wore
some other clothes, but no one gets away
quickly from Dolores’ face. Mrs. Commerce
Brookes was tall and cool in green, and Mrs.
Weidemann was warm and plump and
brief in blue. Mrs. .Tona and her mamma
came together, wore feathers and bemoaned
the absence of the former’s doctor
husband, who is at the Queeuscliff Forts.
It sounds more like a “Sisters’ ” act in a
vaudeville show than a social proceeding,
but I can’t help that. I am a veracious
recorder of events, not a romancer. Mrs.
Henry Stead wore green: Mrs. Judge
Burner black and white With the Judge’s
spouse was the dowager Mrs. Burner, of his-
torical fame, who motored round the
corner from her Toorak In me, to do honor
to the singer. As a matter of fact, most of
Toorak and about three ■ arts of the other
gilded subbubs turned up between 8 and
(5.80 p.m. It certainly was some party.
I will go farther and state that it added a
distinct grain of circumstame to the sands
of social time.
The Patriotic axe is to be ruthlessly
applied. I understand, to the roots of the
word “Kindergarten.” Little Pearl and her
small brother Horace will in future absorb
their learning in a Cliild’s-park or Nipper-
reserve. It is this sort of thing that helps
Kaiser William to appreciate that the think-
ing world is indeed falling about his ears.
On Wednesday night Norah Delany, re-
splendent in dimples and pretty clothes, gave
a piano recital. The Irish-Australian girl
has a fine lilt to her voice as well as music in
her fingers, and a big crowd turned up to
judge the result of her London labors in the
matter of music, languages and other things.
Fevered item from “Rosna,” of London: —
War has called, and three men from the Common-
wealth offices have answered. One is Douglas Reid,
George Commissioner Reid’s good-looking son. He
belongs to King Edward’s Eorse. Not the animal—
the regiment. The other warriors are Sub-accountant
W. C. T. Harvey, who is a lieutenant in the same
regiment; and E. L. Hutton, who is in the Terri-
torials. Another King Edward’s Horseman, by the
way, is young' Arthur Chomley, son of editor Ghomley,
of the British Australasian. Young Chomley was
half-way to Australia in the hope of getting a job at
the Military College of his own country when a
cable called him back.
Lady Dudley’s field hospital, which is under direc-
tion of Australia’s Dr. Douglas Shields, seems to be
going strong. The nurses are practically all Aus-
tralian.
Also, medico Marion Phillips, from Melbourne, has
been elected to the committee which is to see to the
guarding of food supplies during the armed coolness.
She represents the United Labor League, and was
speaking at Trafalgar Square on Sunday.
The Glaciarium —or, as I have waggishly
called it, for months, aye years past, (lie
Glassy-Harem—closed for the summer, last
week, with a large, wild, rough-and-tumble
carnival. Mrs. Grundy being among the
uninvited, Sassiety and those On the Fringe,
also many who are Outside the Pale, hob-
nobbed like intimate friends. I don’t think
it would cause internecine trouble if someone
lured Mrs. G. to a baekbloeks Serajevo, and
did for her. Anyhow, that was the prevailing
feeling at the llarem the other night. Some
careless girls, had mislaid parts of their
Futurist dresses since the last whirl—but
that proved of little worry to them. They
merely put on such sciaps as they could
garner, and had the satisfaction of knowing
that the less they hid the more interest they
created.
The carnival finished with an impromptu
snowballing. Attendants had started to shovel
the snow into heaps in despair of ever seeing
the patrons depart. Whereupon some giddy
young people entrenched themselves behind
the cashier’s box and began a frontal attack
on the gathering without a formal declara-
tion. of war. It was magnificent, but it was
not dry. In fact, hordes of drenched girls
went home on draughty trams with “Pneu-
monia Presently” inscribed plainly in their
heated brows.
Robert Best’s daughter, Beattie, married,
some time ago, an Aldershot reservist
named Captain Broad. lie is now
at Broadmeadows, and his small wife
wanders sadly round with a camera taking
snapshots of him from every imaginable
aspect. She is following him to England
after the troops leave —so he ought to pro-
vide a few more portraits yet.
The Faulkner Mcßean matron (of
Riverina) has purchased the Outliwaites’
Walsh-street (South Yarra) place. Mrs.
Faulkner, sen., is also coming to town. Like-
wise her daughter Louise. Their new abode
is within cooee of her sister. Mrs. Carse.
nephew Frank Carse, ex-M.11.R., and half
a dozen other near relatives.
Dorothy Boyes, a pretty St. Kilda girleen,
who has already mothered several songlets,
has collaborated with Edward Dyson in a
war chant. Its name is “Billy Khaki,” and
it has been taken in hand by the Taits.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
Most of my news is of a dreary nature this week.
My first item concerns pastoralist John Wancn, wlio
died at Springfield, near Mount Crawford, on Sunday.
Ilis people came here from Morayshire (Scotland) in
’3B, and he followed four years later, when he was
12 years old. He was one of the first to take up
land in , the Territory, and in ’62 he and the
Ilogarths—his brothers-in-law —had a sheep-station
on the route of the transcontinental railway line.
As a side-line from agriculture and sheep he turned
his attention to gardening, and the Mount Crawford
fruit was famous in days when fruit-growing in that
country was almost unknown. lie was elected for
the Northern District to the Legislative Council in
’BB, and stayed there till he retired, in 1912.
Thomas Smith, of Unley, died the next day. He
went to sea at 13, on a boat which turned out to be
smuggling brandy, and changed from that to the
Customs service, being the first coastguard to do
duty on the Plymouth breakwater. He offered his
services to Sir John Franklin for his North Polar
voyage, but was refused as under age, and' then
entered the navy. Finally, he voyaged to Port
Adelaide, missed his way back to the ship one foggy
morning, and so became an unintentional colonist.
He was then 25, and he stuffed a lot of incident
into the next half-century.
In addition to the above, most of our lawns have
fallen dead, and the Adelaide Oval and the Golf
Club are pretty well moribund. The drought is to
blame. There has been a lot of talk about putting
down bores. When I first heard the rumor I rejoiced,
thinking that the reference was to our amateur war-
experts. But when I grasped that the scheme was
to dig for water, I lost interest. I don’t believe
you could find water in Adelaide, just now, if you
dug a mile.
Mr. Herbert Hughes and bis daughter have taken
the George Bagots’ house at Medindie for a few
months.
The Elder Hall was filled on Monday night for
the University Choral Class concert. Mr. Levan,
who conducted, and Miss Sylvia Whitington and her
fellow-soloists filled it with melody, and local music-
lovers filled it with human beings.
Lady Galway returned from Melbourne on Tuesday,
and on Wednesday-presided at the annual meeting of
the School for Mothers, of which she is patronce-.
When I tell you that this was one of the most
hilarious events of the week, you will appreciate the
trying time that we are having.
Patriotic private citizens are lending their
motor-cars for the use of officers engaged in
running between St. Kilda-road Barracks and
the camp at Broadmeadows. Hence the fol-
lowing, which may be true, but which would'
be faked up by the first imaginative liar that
came along in any case. Major Whoosh,
A.X.Y.Z., recently ’phoned to Mr. Gotacar,
Toorak (note the waggish way in which tin*
real name is concealed), requesting the attend-
ance of himself and his car at a certain hour.
Gotacar said lie was seething with patriotic
altruism, but also busy. Would there be any
objection to his substituting his chauffeuri
(Mark the subtle mysteriousness of G.’s
reply.) "None whatever,” howled the Major.
(N.B. —All Majors howl in this sort of yarn.)
“Would the Majali please come out and
meet the chauffeur?” “Certainly !” screamed
the warrior. And now we reach the cream
of the anecdote. The chauffeur was, of course;
Mrs. Gotacar, a charming little lady, with
the gladdest of glad eyes (so much more
alluring, I always think, than eyes with
sandy blight, or congested lids, or granula-
tion, or that boiled look which comes from
the late night habit), and black silk stock-
ings, and everything elise to match. “Here’s
my chauffeur,” murmured Gotacar with fatu-
ous pride, as the Major transpired.
Had this been a story of the com-
pletely anonymous sort the Major and
the lady would have been represented as
having a red-hot flirtation. As it is, the
termination is slightly banal. Let me get it
over as quickly as possible. The Major was
driven to Broadmeadows. He talked ex-
clusively about the weather. He took not
the slightest notice of the lady’s glad eyes,
lie paid no attention whatever to her hose.
Arrived at his destination he performed
military duties and was driven back again,
lie lias not seen her since.
Both Ethel Dane and Bradley the comedian
in "Who’s the Lady” at the Princess’s’
Theatre are from Adelaide. So is Peter
Dawson, who is singing like a nightingale at
the Auditorium. So you see S.A. produces
better things than droughts. Iteg Wyckham,
by the way, is back in Melbourne, and is join-
ing the aforementioned company for their
next production.
Melba’s patriotic concert at Lilydale was
a hummer. The main street of the little
town sent up rockets as the singer’s carriage
rolled along to the local hall. It would have
fired cannons and let off revolvers if it had
had any. The local brass band nearly blew
itself to pieces. Dogs barked, children
screamed, women wept, strong men drank
beer, and the flags of half the world tossed
in the agitated atmosphere. Mitchells and
Symes and Lemprieres were there in droves;
also George Armstrong and his pretty wife,
and a perfectly astonishing collection of
Bells, Murphys and Duncans. Smiths and
Browns were also well to the fore, but I
never pay much attention to them. The pretty
Bell niece, Dorothy Bligh, had gathered
primroses by the bucket, and she and other
local maidens sold bunches at hold-up prices.
Ellen Terry gave an excellent account of
herself. She has been resting at Coombe
Cottage, and has got back her “tone.” The
poor lady was n sick woman when she gave
her two big recitals. Nearly 400 of the best
was realised by the end of the show.
Captain Laurie Phillips, of Sydney, has
just been married here to the little widow
Joseph, a daughter of Nahum Barnet.
Neither of them are what you or I would
call broke. The soldier boy, who, by the
way, is a son of Louis, is worth about £2OO
a week, and the widow has a useful bank
account also. One of the brothers Phillips
married a daughter of Benjy Benjy—in fact,
money is an absolute family habit. Laurie
is in New South Wales Lancers, and is a
keen warrior.
Talking of matrimony, Rumor mentions
to me that one of High Court Justice “Toby”
Barton’s girls has become engaged to a
departing soldier. The lucky man is young
Scott-Skirving, son of the Sydney doctor,
who resembles Bland Holt, and who wrote
a romantic novel in his emotional youth.
Peter Dawson sang at the Auditorium on
Saturday night. The two lofty tiers were
closed and sealed and the hall turned into a
cosy recital room, in which capacity it was
packed. Peter’s voice is soft and alluring,
and he has a distinct way with him. He
strides on to the platform with a swing as if
he intended to walk a mile. The stalls feel
quite relieved when he pulls up suddenly two
inches from the platform edge. This abrupt
method makes his—ahem —trousers flap at
the ankles like the garments of an able-bodied
seaman, and helps to disclose a distracting
panorama of white silk sock. Why are the
leg-coverings of so many of our great singers
like split skirts? Paul Dufault’s and Daw-
son’s might well have been hewn out with the
same circular saw. Really, Peter Dawson’s
stage manner is worth half the money. He
squares his shoulders like a hero preparing to
receive the enemy’s cavalry, or an insolvent
nerving himself to accept service of a writ,
and then he curves his mouth like a Cupid’s
bow or a coat-hanger and warbles lovely love-
songs that make one simply yearn. Miss
Amelia George, a massive young woman with
bleached locks and a fine voice, put in the
soprano work. She wore a black gown that
was punctuated by dazzling diamond buttons.
Margarey Grey, in pink (the simple pink
gown of a Lucy Grey) played her fiddle, and
Ilal Elvins accompanied the singers.
The weather got a moral ascendancy over
the patriotic stunt fixed for Saturday in
Government House grounds and slew it (the
stunt) quite dead. The rain drenched every-
thing from early morning, and at midday
damping news came through of the dis-
appeared sub-marine. So the Government
House authorities cancelled the revels and
sent out belated notices to announce
that all was postponed for five days.
Many of the notices, however, failed
to arrive, and motors were rolled back
from the gates in vast numbers. Also, pedes-
trians. patriotically paddling toward the free
or Socialistic provender, were told to edge
off. or words to that effect, by a very damp
sentry with raindrops shining on his bare
bayonet. A small boy—one of a morbid
group in the neighborhood of the Man of
Blood—hissed excitedly at me: “Why
wasn’t you allowed in there, lady?” I dis-
covered. by a few well-aimed queries, that he
and his friends were hoping against hone
that the Kaiser had taken Government
House, and that the ewe of the Wa r Lord’s
murdered victims would presently start flow-
ing down the drive.
The Dolores concert on Saturday night
had a highly Belgie air. The oppressed
little nation's tricolor flag blazed across the
book-of-the-words, and tricolor ribbons were
fixed to the corner with a royal seal, which
I was assured was a facsimile of King
Albert’s. Dolores sang beneath a French
flag, and the usual Government - Housers
occupied the padded chairs of the special
semi-circle. The Governor-General was
absent on military business —bowling along
towards Bananaland under the efficient pro-
tection of Captain Tommy Curwen, A.D.G.
Mr. Wilberforce sat at Lady Helen’s elbow,
with Mrs. Musical I’insehoff on bis right.
Her Ex.’s heavy black silk skirt was but-
toned up over another corselet skirt of
crimson. The remainder of the in-
evitable red garment was smothered
in shoulder furs. out of which her
head emerged bu a few inches. Not in
vain has she sampled the polar atmosphere
of our Town Hall. In addition to the furs
she wore a lorgnette and a diamond tiara.
Mrs. Ilennessy basked in the warmth of
Gaud Mayor Hennessy’s becks and wreathed
smiles, in a peach of a pink silk dress and
a collar of ermine. Mrs. Barrett introduced
a severe black and white note into the other-
wise gaudy circle.
Dolores sang—Well, you know how
Dolores sings—with an infectious little air
of gaiety and lightness in her cultured trill-
ing. Her offerings were some French
songs and a tremendous thing from Handel’s
“Theodora.” She finished the programme
with “God Save,” “The Marseillaise” and
“La Brabanconne.” Which last, I believe,
is the Belgian national anthem. Dolores
was all dimples and pearls. Ropes and
cascades and embroideries of the latter
dripped from her filmy lace gown. She had
a fascinating young French-pink accom-
panist named Iris de Oairos-Rego, who hails
from Sydney, and has been toiling at her art
in Europe. Iris played the piano by her-
self at times, and got much anpreciative
applause. The French-pink dress was
charming, so was the girl—so was her play-
ing. In fact, the whole affair was a really
harmonious Dolores recital.
A reception was practically forced on
Dolores by the Mayor and his wife and
Society generally in the marble corridor
before she tripped down the steps to her
motor and the Grand. She is almost as well
known in this city as its own Melba.
Yours sincere] v.
JOHANNA.
“Adelaide”: What’s in a name? Among
the South Australians who went to fight in
South Africa was one named Kruger. And
among the lot just leaving to fight the Ger-
mans is one named Kayser!
Sam McKay, brother of the Sunshine
Harvester exploiter, met Sir John French
on one of his business travels, and mixed
awhile with some military admirers of the
future field-marshal. The experts had quite
made up their minds that French was "the
finest military strategist in Europe.” But
soon there were people who said the same
thing of Joffre, the Frenchman. The truth
of the matter probably is that two “old
professional” soldiers’ heads are better than
one on the side of the Allies, whilst the one
Kaiser head is worse than none on the
German side.
Alfred Wheeler, sometime precentor at
St. Paul’s Cathedral, Melbourne, and lat-
terly boss caretaker of souls at All Saints',
Geelong, gets the Cathedral canonry ren-
dered vacant by the translation of Charles
God by to deanliood. Parson Wheeler is by
way of being a composer, in a pleasant,
tinkling, Alfrcd-Wheeler-Wilcox sort of way,
as witness his well-known cantata, “The
Rose of Joy.” He sets a good example to
other minor composers by wearing his hair
short over his collar, and he takes a humble
size in hats.
Parson John McKenzie, of Maoriland,
who has just been called to the Manse at
Toorak (Melb.), and is spoken of in the
daily press as “the first colonial appointed
to take charge of one of the more important
Presbyterian churches in Australia,” hails
from Christchurch, M.L. (pronounced
“Chch” through the nose). He comes of agri-
cultural stock, and was educated at Otago
University. In dour Dunedin he is remem-
bered by the Professor of Theology as the
best student he ever had. He never played,
even as a boy, and always smiled with diffi-
culty. He is about 47. inclined to wowser-
ism. a fervent advocate of the Bible in
State schools, and free from even a taint
of modern ideas.
“.Teames” on marriage :
The war is an appalling hardship to the thousands
of English people Avho have married Germans, and
vice vema. German marriages—perhaps for religions
reasons, both countries being mostly Protestant —are
extremely frequent in all classes of society. The
Prince of Pless is married to a sister of the Mr.
Cornwallis West whom Winston Churchill's mother
recently divorced ; and the richest girl in Prussia—a
daughter of the multi-millionaire, Friedlander Fuld—
married one of the F reemai i-Mi t f ord s a few months
ago ; and, incidentally, left him almost immediately.
And so one could pursue the mournful tale right down
to the innumerable German waiters, porters and
valets who are the husbands of British girls in
London and the big provincial cities. The situation is
inevitable, LoA'e being in its essence a Freetrade busi-
ness. but still there is a lot of pathos about it.
Almost equally tragic is the position of the Berlin
or Viennese Nut or Blood. For years he has been
accustomed to get his clothes at Johns and Pegg’s
and his boots at Alan McAfee's. Now these incom-
parable artists are alien enemies, so far as he is con-
cerned, and if he were caught trading with them
he would probably be shot. And yet to the modern
Brummel the idea of wearing garments that have
been constructed in Germany is unthinkable. No
doubt most of these young men ha ve reasonably large
wardrobes already in stock, but it is impossible to
predict the duration of the war, and if it lasts into
next London season their plight will be pitiable.
In the days Avhen T got my livery-coats and so on
in Clifford-street, I always knew -when a German
attache or guardsman \\'as being tried on in a com-
partment adjacent to mine, by the infuriated shouts
and curses that split the Avelkin. Most of the youths
of this class are astonishingly mannerless where their
social inferiors are concerned. In fact, while ex-
ceptionally suave and courteous to one another—the
result, I take it, of the duelling habit—they are in
their treatment of us of the Servants' Hall about the
most arrogant and uncouth young hounds on record.
Still I sympathise with them if they are drh'en to
wear German clothes and boots. The punishment is
a dreadful one.


"THE POSTBOYS"
REPRODUCED PROM THE ORIGINAL .PAINTING IN THE POSSESSION OF
JOHN DEWAR & SONS. L TD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, Perth & London


IF CONSTIPATED TAKE
"CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Delicious “regulator” for stomach,
liver and bowels, for mamma,
daddy and children.
If you are headachy, constipated, bilious,
or if the stomach is disordered and you want
to enjoy the nicest liver and bowel cleansing
you ever experienced, take a tablespoonful
of “California Syrup of Figs” to-night and
in the morning all the constipation poison,
bile and clogged-v.p waste will gently move
out of the system without griping, and you
will feel splendid.
Every member of the family should use this
fruit laxative as occasion demands. It is
just as effective for grandpa as it is for baby.
It simply cannot injure. Even cross, sick,
feverish children just love its pleasant taste
and mothers can rest easy after giving it,
because it never fails to effect a good “inside
cleansing.”
For thirty years “California Syrup of
Figs” has been recommended by physicians
as the ideal stomach, liver and bowel
cleanser. Millions of families who are well
informed use nothing else.
.Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califor-
ma Syrup of Figs,” which has full directions
for babies, children of all ages and for grown-
ups plainly printed on the bottle. Beware
of counterfeits sold here. Get the genuine,
made by' “California Fig Syrup Company.”
Refuse any other kind with contemnt. “Cali-
fornia Syrup of Figs” is sold by all leading
chemists, 1/1-1 and 1/9.
“THE TOPNOTCH SCOTCH.’
RING
GEORGE IV.
WHISKY.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
BLASE.
YOUNG HEN : "I like being bioody"
OLD HEN : "Don’t worry, nr dear. If yon
were as old as I am, and had sat lor six
weeks on a door-knob, you would think
quite differently."
“Lagani-Namo”: A man’s status in the
New Hebrides depends on the number of tusker
boars he owns. Several teeth are removed from the
top jaw of these boars, so that the tusks can be
forced to grow flat and circular. A tusk’s value is
estimated at cording to its size and regularity. One
of three complete circles the native owner has refused
to swap for £5O. These pigs receive more care
than children. A woman sleeps with the children,
whilst her man slumbers in a separate apartment
with his boars. They are regularly washed, groomed
and anointed with cocoanut oil. After death, when
the spirit of the owner goes with his bodyguard of
boars into Elysium, women may go to tend them
on the journey, but when they arrive at the boss’s
destination the mere females are handed a card,
bearing the words, “Please admit hearer,” and
shooed in the direction of Beelzebub’s department.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” : “Old Drover,” a
correspondent in S. M. Herald, the other day, gave
a version of the massacre of blacks at Myall Creek
(N.S.W.) which has never before been published.
He makes the killed 18 ; the official report made it
29, at the least. “Old Drover’s” authority is one
James Bean. In 1878 “Old Drover” was employed to
bring a mob of cattle “for the late” IV. ,T. Dar.gar
(who is not yet dead) from Myall Creek to Singleton,
and there he met James Bean, “who was then eman-
cipated.” (I should think he was ; he was assigned
in the early ’3o's.) Bean is described as a little
old man and very deaf. His story of the slaughter
was that there were nine or 10 men employed on
the station, and amongst the hands was a favorite
boy. This boy fell sick, and it was decided tlmt
Bean should go into Bingara, 17 miles distant, for
medicine. (Did Bingara exist as a town in 183 S?)
Returning to the station he got off the track, was
lost for the night, and did not arrive home till (he
following evening. He found that the station had
been broken into and everything that the blacks could
take was gone. The sick boy had been murdered.
The station hands buried the lad, then followed the
blacks and shot them. The police got wind of the
matter and arrested all the whites, including the
station manager, who escaped from, the coach at
Cobadah, and was never again heard of. He is still
running. Now, not one word about this lad or the
looting of the station was given at the trial ; like-
wise, there was no Jimmy Bean amongst the arrested,
and no manager escaped. He was, in fact, the chief
witness at the trial. Eleven men were indicted at the
first trial, and the jury acquitted because the identifi-
cation of the aged black known as “Daddy” was not
complete. The prisoners were then indicted for the
murder of an infant. Seven were found guilty and
hanged.
* * * *
“Lagani-Namo” : Queer Emma (a half-
caste American-Samoan) and King Peter (a Swedish
sailor who had struggled on to New Britain from a
wrecked ship), were at one time the most important
persons throughout the Bismarck Archipelago. They
arrived there about the same time, and hated each
other at first sight. As time went by they became
affluent, and part of their enjoyment was to waste
money in order to annoy each other. Peter had
an enormous flag made, depicting a naked nigger
poising on a cocoanut, and extending the fingers
of both hands from his nose. This he would run
up whenever there was a possibility of the Queen
seeing it. She, by way of retaliation, always kept
in her compound a pig named Peter, which she
personally fed on the garbage of her establishment.
King Peter had built up an income of some £12,000
per annum ere he was called to give the password
to his namesake Up Aloft. Queen Emma, when
she snuffed it, left stores, plantations and a fleet
of trading vessels, worth £250,000 of anybody's
money—for the solace of the sorrowing relatives
and friends.
* * » *
“Tialti” : I was sending a wire, and, as I
was writing, I overheard Timi Taihoa say: “Whnt te
wav I earn’ sen’ my wire for?” “No telegrams what-
ever in Maori or any foreign language,” said the
clerk. “liot-tamit, you tink me te prurry Teller-
man?” replied Timi. “Sorry. Can’t help it. Yen
must write it in English,” said the clerk. Turn's
face (as the scenario writers say) registered anger.
“Werra, py cripe, te kuwmermen’ tc prurry rimmit.
S’pose he want te soatcher for te fight te proomin’
Tcherman orate Maori ho koin’ if he want ’im?
S’pose te poor prurry Maori wanna sen’ his wire te
tarn kuwmermen's won’ take ’im ? No
prurry good t’at Way.” “Not my fault,
old chap,” sympathised the clerk. “Write
it in English.” “Werra, I hawwa try,”
said Timi. After a while he produced a
document which read as follows: “To
Rutene liairoro. I want you go downs
Tologa Bay and you tells that dam COW
Billy Pattersuns if he goind send mv
blankkey rent I wants it. Timi Taihoa.”
“Oh, we can’t take that, Timi. That
won’t do.” Then I came in and averted
internecine strife. After suh-eliting
Timi’s wire we adjourned to wet the
war. “Ehoa. No prurry kood te sen’ te
pakeha wire. S’po e-it I sen* t’ Maori
wire I teboin ora little word an make-a
two, Free word for te one and we hawa
te two trink. Te prurry pakeha wire cos’ me
te two bob, an’ I onarv get te one pia,” complained
Timi. Whereupon I sparred up another bob.
*• * * *
“Gouger”: Some jokes were played on
new bands during the sheep-buying boom of the
early days. .1 know one well-known naval captain
and his chief mate who went up to inspect a station
rear Bourke (N.S.W.). The property wr.s owned
by a well-known wool firm in Sydney. The station
Stock comprised some 2000 young sheep and a luob of
battered old ewes, with neither wool nor meat hor
morals. The old sheep were mustered and put Out of
sight in a paddock at the back of the run. The .young
sheep were gathered close to the homestead atid the
intending buyers were taken out to inspect this mob.
Though they hardly knew a sheep from a mule or a
ship, the naval men could see that these young sheep
were sheep without a doubt. They were then
taken on a winding course over the hills and cams
on a similar mob. In r.U they were shown seven
mobs. But the water men were out of their
element, and did not know that they were shown
the same lot seven times over. They gave a goodly
price for the property, but when they mustered
their stock and found all the bald patriarchs, they
guessed there had been a foul wind somewhere.
However, after a long struggle, they weathered the
gale.' Now they know a sheep from an anchor, and
Can hold their own fairly well.
HE KNEW BILL.
HE: "Did yer put Bill's drink down on. the slate?"
SHE: “ Yes, Dad."
HE: "Well, put it down again afore y’ forget."
“David Maipon” : A teal live Australian
aboriginal has just been discovered by the iien-
feeders. He comes from the McLean Mission Station
at Lake Alexandria, and is strongly Suspected, both
by himself and Others, of being an. inventive genius
and a shining scientific light. He is highly educated
and brimful of scientific notions, Which haVe already
impelled him to make A shearing machine, something
helpful fbr an aeroplane, and so on. He makes
speeches occasionally, in excellent English-Australian,
begging his “fellow Australians” to help raise his
benighted brethren to that they also can make aero-
planes and speeches.
# * * +
“Rag” : In the; early days of the Far West
(Southern Cross, Coolgardie and Hannan’s), until
the condensers got going, water was seatebr than
beer. One party of bright spirits found gold more
plcntifi 1 than either, ahd J ack (I their opinion I;.\
providing a champagne plunge bath fbr the favorite
local Hebe. If ill those days you saw a cloud of
dust that wasn't a “willy-willy ” you Could safely
bet that it was the Outward and visible sign of some
extra-cleanly prospector laundering. Pants, socks,
shirts, etc., were slung across a line, and trounced
as we do carpets. There were Several methods of
ironing. A bottle filled with hot water was most
popular for linen things \ whilst the CreascS were
kept in one’s best pants by folding them in the way
they should go, and then sleeping bn top of them,
* * * *
“Oiir.ai’’ : “Lagani-Naiuo” rallst In older
than I thought if he Can recall the murder of
“Jules” (which his name Was George) La lour in
the New Hebrides (B, 20/8/’l4). It occmrcd at
Aore, In the Main pass, in 18S7, and not at all in
the way that “L.N.” tells. My authority is Douglas
ltannie, new Of the Queensland Museum, and a
famous Government Agent in the Old blackbirding
days. He knew Latour well, and saw his murdel'eis
hanged. Latour shot a couple of trespassing dogs- -
not men, as “L.N.” asserts. Even in the middle
SO's of last century it would have been over tlic
odds to wipe out a couple Of natives for entering
one’s front garden. The murder came about as the
result of a private quarrel. There were only two
natives concerned. One of these shot Latour on his
verandah in broad daylight. Latour's son was close
by, and was seized by another native, who hold him
until the murderer came up. Both explained to
young Latour that, though they and all their people
loved him (the usual attitude of Island savages
towards white children), the fact that he had wit-
nessed his father’s death made his own imperative.
Then they butchered the boy apologetically. The
bodies were rot eaten, but buried with all decency
by other members of the tribe.
“Old Nick’*: Apropos of the Esttelnina
(mentioned in B: 3/0/’l4). it was purchased at
the Prize-Court safe by Governor King* and is
entered in the shipping register of August 12, 1800,
as a schooner of 102 torts, formerly a Spanish vessel,
with a crew of 15, in good condition, purchased to
replace the Integrity, supposed to be lost, used for
voyages to Norfolk Island, Port Dalrymple and
Hobart Town. The master’s wages are given as
£2 ss. a month. It was in this tub that Majors
THE HONEST THIEF.
EX-FAT IMPORTER : "For jo years I was a
thief and a robber, but nine rears ago I
was converted, and I have not done a
mean or a dirty act to any man since."
P ARSON: "And to whom do you owe your
wonderful conversion ?”
EX-FAT IMPORTER : “ To meself! I made
enough money to retire on, so I quit the
wicked business, and now, thank Heaven,
Tin saved."
Johnston and Foveaux wanted to send Governor
Bligh to England, but that idea was so strongly
protested against by Bligh that no decision was
reached till Colonel Paterson arrived in Sydney from
Van Diemen's Land. Bligh persuaded Paterson to
send him to England in H.M.S. Porpoise, and gave
his word in writing as an officer and gentleman that
he would sail at once. He failed to keep his word,
so a lot of people became depressed when the word
of an officer and a gent, was mentioned.
(Continued on page 21f.)
VAGABOND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It must lia’ gat into my veins
The blood o’ the Wandering Jew,
That urges me by hills and plains
To shift my camp anew;
To leave the fixed abiding, place—
The house, the hearth, the home—
And trace the world’s bewrinklc 1 face
From Boolaroo to Rome.
My port is Guam, when I sail
Amidst some motley crew,
Who greet me with a friendly hail,
Not heeding caste or hue.
But when I touch the nearest strand
My way is theirs no more;
It lies across the hinterland
To some remoter shore.
Men venture forth for lust of gold,
Or stranger lands to see;
But none of these my fancies hold,
And none are new to me.
And never yet was anchor forged
To hold me with a chain,
Amidst civilians overgorged,
Or men that toil in pain.
In silence, in the silent night,
I pass the curtained panes,
And see within the mellow light
When Croesus entertains ;
And in the hut, or township cot,
I see the hearth aglow—
These dull delights shall tempt me not,
From out the paths I go.
By day, teyond some moss-gre n wall,
The garden-glories rear ;
Like snow the orchard-petals fall ;
They call me: “‘Linger here!”
But never yet was woven mesh
To hold me in its strands—
I am not of that placid flesh
That tills the fruitful land-.
Mine is the barren mother-rock,
Where grows Earth's hardy brood ;
My friends are lean and hungry stock
That rove in search of food;
They greet me as a beast akin,
They hail me as I pass,
Knowing I shall not bruise their skin
Nor rob them of their grass.
No tether holds my errant star
With cords of love or gold,
Nor shall the laws of men debar
My gipsy rights of old ;
Nor is my goal some nobler day,
AVhich through the mists I scan—
But I am that unbeaten clay
From which was moulded man !
VICTORIA.
C. G. A. COLLKS.


An Effective Safeguard
against breakdown losses and inconvenience
of idle machines is to purchase “ AJE.G. ”
slip=ring motors with
AEG.’ FOOL-PROOF STARTERS
"""'•IIIIIIIih.
I
%
\
\
f
NO '<l
SLIDING
CONTACTS
TO STICK
NO
RESISTANCES
TO BURN OUT
IMPOSSIBLE
TO SWITCH IN
TOO FAST, i
USED EXTENSIVELY IN TIMBER MILLS. FACTORIES, MINES,
Write for Information.
Australian Metal Co. Ltd.,
40-42 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY,
172-6 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
Gijbert Place.
ADELAIDE.
vm
W
m
(l
NELSON’S SODA FOUNTAINS
ATTRACT BIG CROWDS.
The Soda Fountain Season has come again.
Does it find you Ready ?
Are you equipped with a NELSON’S Fountain? You are not making the
best of your opportunity if you are not.
Crowds pass your doors daily, hut only those who come in are of value to you.
Tt will he no trouble to get the crowds in when it is known that the Fountain is
the famous NELSON Brand. It is only fair to you that we point out the fact
that the finest Soda Fountains in Australia are those turned out from the
NELSON Manufactory. The proof of this is demonstrated by the powerful fact
that the most prominent, up-to-date and successful Soda Fountain people use none
other than NELSON’S.
That’s the strongest reason why you should install the same. You can get
cheaper fountains, perhaps'.- but it's unwise to buy trouble and annoyance, which
you are sure to do when you get a poorly-made, inferior kind. Such are dear at
any price.
We sell only dependable machines, that we. as practical, experienced men, can
honestly and conscientiously recommend. There’s a pile of money to be made in the
Soda Fountain business. Get your share of it. If you don’t, your competitor
will.
If you are interested in this big, money-making proposition, write to us
without delay. You can’t afford to lose time —TIME IS MONEY’ in this game.
Write, and we will post you up with a lot" of valuable informatiotr
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.,
Also at TURBOT BUILDINGS,
TURBOT STREET, BRISBANE.
219 George Street, Sydney.
BRITISH MACHINERY
and Engineering;
AVELING & PORTER Steam Waggons, Road Rollers, Traction Engines, etc,
HOPKINSQN Steam Valves, Boiler Mountings, etc.
BRITISH MANNESMANN Solid Drawn Tubes for all purposes,
STONE'S Bronzes, Water Fittings, Marine Specialities, etc,
HIGGINBOTTOM & MANNOCK Cranes of all Types.
PRIESTMAN BROS. Grab Outfits.
DOWSON Producer Gas Plants,
LANCASHIRE Motors and Generators,
FERRANTI Switch Gear and Meters,
CALLENDERS Cables and Wires,
Also Large Stocks carried of Pumps, Fans and Blowers,' .Setftional Pipe Covering,
Portable Eletftric Drills, Electric Pulley Blocks, etc.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence St., Sydney.
(MELBOURNE) PROPRIETARY LTD., 499-501 Bourke St., Melbourne
And at 45 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Selling Agents—ADELAIDE: STEELE (El BAKER.; PERTH sJ.R. W. GARDAM.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH-
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Fattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
f
Insure in the
1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Capital
Subscribed
Paid=up
...£250,000
... 165,000
... 82,500
Branches in every State.
Agents wanted. Write for particulars.
H. S. DOHERTY, General Manager.
TMt
iNSTPuninT
ariATE.URS
rTpIPLE-V CLO3I no
EMASCULATOR.
This" SAFETY"
Emasculator
does away with all
risk of bleeding;.
Postage Free 45/-
My "Hints on Castrating"
enable any man used to Stock
to cut with the “Safety”
either Colts, Bulls, Rams, or
Boars.
Other patterns of 30/- to 50/-
Emaseulators from
Zoeller’s “Handy”
Castrating Knife, 3/6
is a lovely bit of Steel.
Carl Zoeller,
246 Queen St.,
BRISBANE, Q.
Send for eomplete
Veterinary Catalog.
It's FREE
Life has its pleasures even for the dead
at Hamilton (Vie.). The other day the local Spec-
tator hurried forth with this cheerful information: —
FUNERAL NOTICE.
IvLAMBT. —The funeral of the late Mr. Wilhelm
Klambt will be held at the Caledonian Hotel to-
morrow (Wednesday) evening, at 8 o’clock. Business
important.
* * » *
“Lagani-Namo” : The flighty wife of to-day
occasionally tries some pretty impossible stories, but a
Papuan wife in the hazy long! ago invented an excuse that
beats the massed bands. It appears that this woman
had gone into the jungle with the expressed inten-
tion of getting pandanus palm fronds for the thatch
of her domicile. She disappeared from that time
for several moons; and when she did return this is
the tale she told: “While I was bundling my
pandanus leaves a huge snake writhed his coils
around my waist and dragged me away through the
scrub to his place. When we arrived at the hcle
he made me lie so that he was able to twine one
end of himself around a tree, and pull me head
first in through the hole. Here he kept me as his
wife, all the time feeding me on parrots, butterflies
and cus-eus (a species of opossum), which I had
to eat raw. At daybreak three suns ago whilst the
snake was away hunting, I cried, and cried, and
cried, so that this ‘boy,’ who happened to be pass-
ing overhead, heard me, dug at the hole, and
rescued me. We ran all the way—not daring to
linger for either food or sleep. I’m terrified lest the
snake come and crush us all, even now.’’ I in-
quired whether the husband accepted this explana-
tion, and was assured that he did. It would seem
that husbands were just as confiding and trustful
then as they are now.
A CHANCE OF A WET.
THE PEDESTRIAN : “If Fd only done me five
miles instead of sleepin' all night, I might
’ave caught this push dow at th’ soak! ”
“G.J.H.” : I enter my emu against
• “Karoonda’s” (B. 3/9/’l4). Was motoring along a
fenced road towards Waitchie (Vic.), in a Ford car,
some time ago, when an ostrich streaked out of the
mallee scrub about 10 yards ahead and chucked dust
at our Yankee engine. To avenge the insult we “let
her out” and when Mr. Emu left the road at a turn-off
a mile and a half down the track he was still in the
lead and going strong. Our speedometer showed 35
miles.
* * * *
“Lagani-Namo”: The big “hornbills” of
Papua have the bump of philoprogenitivencss more
strongly developed than any other bird that I'm
acquainted with. As soon as hubby feels an egg in
the bed he makes a sudden departure in search of
some stiff clay. With this he plasters up the
entrance to his hymeneal apartment (leaving only
sufficient room for the admission of his wife’s rations),
and remains outside on guard until the missus
screeches the result. Then pa gets to work with his
beak and demolishes the citadel.
HIS MORAL SUPPORI.
THE KID: "Look ’ ere, dad, play the game! Why don't per marry maver if she
wants yer to? "
“Lagani-Namo”: Until I had been
assaulted by the big, black and yellow hornets of tlie
Papuan scrub I used to feel very annoyed whenever
my string of native carriers shot off the track at an
abrupt tangent to avoid these prettily-marked insects.
This detour usually meant that heavy
scrub knives had to be wielded by
everybody to cut our way through a
tangle of aerial roots, prickly “law-
yer” lianas and stinging trees, for
several hundred yards. One morning
I resolved to break the boys of this
bad custom, so when they began the
next deviation, I stalked fiercely past
them puffing my pipe like a locomo-
tive under full pressure. Suddenly I
found myself face down on the ground,
temporarily incapable of moving. As
I regained my wits my first thought
was that I had been struck by light-
ning, and until three opium tabloids
relieved me it was as though I had
received many hypodermic ' injections
of molten lead. That happened about
five years ago, and its bright sting
haunts me still. I’m told that the hornet is a cer-
tain cure for rheumatism. I’ll pay the passage
money for anyone who wants to try this cure pro-
vided I’m allowed to take a cinematographic and
phonographic record of the circus.
“Machete” : Much interested to hear from
“Gouger” that sandalwood is up to £45 per ton.
When I last saw a pile it was £l2 a ton, and hrfcky
to get it. The timber takes a lot of preparing, too,
as the outer wood has to be adzed off before the
stuff is marketable. The Chows value it, not so
much for the wood as for the oil, which they prize
exceedingly for medical and other purposes. Round
the fragrant-scented vegetable could be written a
story of more debauchery, bloodshed and general
villainy than has centred round whaling or even
pearling. The sandalwood-getters of the Islands were
about the last wand in Hell’s hallelujah.
THE TIFF.
S HE: “No, I don't like you any more. You
shouldn't have kissed vie against my will. ”
HE: "How unreasonable you are! You said
yourself I'd have to kiss you against your
will or not at all."
TEDDY’S HEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ned Rose I knew at Cogill’s ‘Rise.
lie was a hatter in a hut.
ITe might have been considered wise
Had he indulged in language, but
He was a man who didn’t say
A word to give his thoughts away.
He’d work and brood the live-long day.
For festive scenes Rose had no taste.
He seemed to dodge, his fellow men.
His sole companion in the waste
Was one sedate, old yellow hen.
Where’er he went, the settlers said,
That ancient bird accompanied Ned.
At- night it roosted by his bed.
Ned never chatted with his hen.
The hen it offered no remark.
It followed him to work, and then
It fossicked round him till the dark.
Rose once explained the case to me.
“I’m very sociable,’’ said he,
“And hens is dashed good company.”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.
The Portent.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
« A NDY McGRATH was a queer, siu-
/\ sitiff man,” said Flynn. “Ye’ll
JL\~ find manny the like in Bungaree
about would yeh look fer thim. Andy was
a far-rmer ’n’ a grazier, ez ord’nary a reel
man at his employ ez ye’d meet ’twixt this
’n’ Clirismiss ave, but wholly apar-rt frim
crops, ’n’ pig meat, ’n’ the conduct iv cows,
Andy McGrath was wan iv a strange ’n’
perverse way iv thinkin’, animate wid be-
liefs Father Doyle would git a fit did he hear
of. He had shpirit voices come to him wid.
other things, mind yeh, V was most sarious
in his dthrames nivir wan more so.
“Did Andy have a dthrame would be
ord’nary t’ anny man iy, us, he’d puzzle ’n’
puzzle till he got the fnauin’ to ut, ’n’ noth-
in' on earth injuced him t’ inter anny invest-
ment T bizness thransaction iv whativer
complexion did his dthrame go agin it.
“McGrath was tuck another way betimes,
poor man, wid fits iv poethry. Would yer
know e’er a simple body at all subject to
attacks iv poethry? ’Tis sore throuble to a
fellow crature, man, I’m fellin’ yeh, wid the
way ’twill pull thim down, ’n’ shtart thim
groanin’ wid thribulation, ’n’ concates, ’n’
conthrary conduo’. Whin McGrath was
seem’ somethin’, maybe a bit iv a bur-rd on
a twig, ’r a lame, dusty beggannan goin’ wid
a crutch on the long road, the poethry habit
would attack him sthraight, ’n’ down he
must go, wid the lickin’ iv an ould shtub iv
car-rpenter’s pincil, ’n’ the thrifle iv paper
to his knee, makin’ a wee song iv ut. Some-
times the song not so long ez your hand
kep’ him the day through, chewin’ an’ chew-
in’ the bit iv pincil, ’n’ groanin’ intarnal
most terrible. Haven’ I sit be the hour
watchin’ him at ut, the hor-rses standin’ t’
the plough, ’r the fine pertaters neglect in
the soil the time bein’, V a pityess sight it
was. This I’ll be sayin’ fer McGrath, he
would make the wild, strange song like a
devil on a hill in the black night the way
he’d crone it over by the chimbley wet even-
in’s. Never a man T a woman in all Fergus
was not afeared iv the same.
“But ’tis iv Andy McGrath’s quare
dthream I’m tellin’. Manny years ago it
happened t’ the good man here in Fergus
on a Sunday night was wet ’n’ shtormin’
t’riffic. Nex’ day he come t’ me et the
for-rge, wdiite ez a ghost’s shift, ’n’ sez he: —
“ ‘Danny, we’re rooned,’ he sez. ‘’Tis all
over wid the lot iv us, ’n’ ye’ll trow the
hor-rse show down, man, ’n’ not be throub-
lin’ yer few days wid thrifles. Trow ut
down. Niver the hor-rse will wear it at all.’
“But I’m knowin’ Andy McGrath these
twilve years, ’n’ I sticks the shoe in the
cliar-r-coal most delib’rit, ’n’ goes shwingin’
me long bellis handle, shmilin’, knowin’ all
the time, ’n’ sez I: —•
“ ‘What bullant’s in yer bonnet this fine
mor-rnin’, Andy McGrath ?’
“‘Grin,’ sez he; ‘grin wide,’ he sez, ‘fei
the time’s cornin’ wlien they'll put a fixed
grin t’ yer face, Danyil Flynn, will last till
tne bone shows through.’
“ ‘ls ut a dthrameV' sez I.
“ -’Tis a dthrame,’ sez he. ’if wan there 11
be no doubts of in Fergus come Chewsdee or
Wednesday, m’be. I dthramed.’ lie sez. ‘there
was gr-r-eat guns shootin trim the hills
east,’ lie sez. "if lire leppin’ troo the roofs
west, ’n’ north, ’n’ south, ’n’ flames throb-
bin’ in the hay. ’n’ dead wimin ’if childther
lyin’ this way ’n’ that way on the grass,
’n’ maimed min ’n’ fearful goin by, moanin
’n’ cry in’, ’n’ boldin’ their wounds; wan
creepin’ ’n’ dthraggin’ the leg they’d shot
friin him. Thin 1 saw a terrible hole tore
in me house, ’n’ the chimbley trown down,
‘n’ whin I looked blood was to the bricks iv
the same. Would yell know what ut all
manes, Danyill Flynn? Tis the Roosians
coinin’ wid their powerful guns a chain
long, ’n’ shootin’ ’if bur-rnin’ till never a
man’s left, ’n’ never annything’ iv a house r
a good crop is shtandin'.’
“Ye’d not doubt he mint it, didyeli see
him wid his eyes mad in him, ’n’ his hand
lift like a prophet. ’Twas a time whin the
Itoosian scare was makin’ all fearful timor-
ous t.’ be sure, ’n’ there was some good ray-
son fer the cold creep iv a man's shkin, 'it
the hear-rt iv him like a brick to bis ribs.
But I makes a big bellowin’ laugh fer show,
’if sez I :
” ‘l’ll be gettiif on wid me hor-rse shoes,
nevertheless, Andy McGrath, for the
Roosians may nade tliini.’
“ ‘Ye’ll plaze yerself, Flynn.’ answers he.
‘But though a man iv shmall intelligence,
I’m doin’ me best fer yer, fer the Lord made
iv the foolish wid the wise in this quare
wor-rld. Big a hole t’ hide yer head in,’ sez
he.
“He went away, ’if before the night fell
all Fergus was talkin’ iv his dthrame, ’if
sure enough the pa purs trim Melbin kim
full iv. alia rums 'if flarin’ mad talk iv mighty
tall Roosian ships iv war-r coinin’ down
upon the poor counthry t’ kill ’if bur-rn.
“Next mor-rnin’ Andy McGrath kim be
me forge wanst more, tlf eyes iv him white
ez milk, wid wan black, bur-rnin’ shpot in
aieli, ’if lie was more disthressin’ than be-
fore, wid. predictions ’if prophesies iv death
’if desthruction.
“‘I dthramed ut agin, Flynn,’ sez lile;
‘more dislitinct than ever I dthramed it
laslit night, ’n’ the side was tor-rn from the
house, ’if me chimbly was t’rown sprawlin
be the gar-rden, ’if blood was on the bricks,
Dig ye a hole t’ hide yer head come Chews-
dee. Danyill Flynn,’ sez he. ‘Dig ye a hole,
man,’ he sez. ‘Fer me,’ sez he, solemn ’n’
imprissive, ‘l’d not choose t’ live t’ see lit.’
“Thin lie wint along, carryin’ his tale frim
dure t’ dure, ’n’ I'm fellin' yell there’s no
hear-rt left in me fer wor-rk or play.
“ ‘Chewsdee night,’ he sez. ‘Chewsdee
night ’twill come t’ yelif He’s preachin’ ut
in the township ’n’ the disthric’, dhirty ’n’ all
possesst ez a prophet iv old, thim ez is in-
shpired havin’ no time fer baths ’n’ like
frivolity.
“Ivry wan laught, but ’twas the like iv mo
own laugh. ’N’ I knew there was terrors ’if
apprehensions to ut, ’if manny a man ’n
manny a woman ’n’ little child wint quakin’
in the hours iv darkness.
“Kim Sunday, ’n’ Costin found Andy
McGrath in his bar-rn wan hour afther sun-
rise hangin’ be the neck, slitiff ez mutton.
Onbounded faith in dthrames Andy had. poor
man.
“Whin the news shpread Fergus was con-
sarned terrible. More ‘n’ more ’twas thought
the gift iv prophesy was on McGrath, ’if
public onaisiness was shtirrin’ ’n’ disthri-
butin’. Halligan lowered tin pigs t’ the
dthrives iv the ould Jack iv Clubs mine
beyant, ’n’ wid hisself, ’n’ the six childther,
’n’- wan bag iv flour, ’n’ the blessin’ iv
Heaven, went below t’ live. McGuire ’if
fanfly wint to a cave in the hills there, ’if
Finn tuck to a tree, while Ned Burke
thrimmed his whiskers a stlirange patthern,
put a fur-r cap to his head, ’n’ pretended he
was iv Roosian extliraction, V him from
Shligo, red ez a hor-rse carrot, ’n’ wid a
brogue to him ye’d cut wid a hoe.
“Chewsdee avenin’ kim cowld and wet. All
Chewsdee night the thunder was explodin’ in
the hills like enough t’ mighty foreign guns;
’n’ the lightnin’ swishin’ round, the whips iv
God drivin’ the stor-rm fiends down the silky,
’n’ the rain tumblin’ over itself t’ wash away
the wor-rld.
“Some say ’twas a bolt iv thunder, some
will tell you all day ’twas a hundthred
yar-rds iv chain-lightnin’, but, whatever, it
hit the house iv the late Antlirew McGrath
an awesome blow, knockin’ a hole in the wall
ye’d dthrive a four-hor-rse waggin troo, ’n’
smashin’ the chimbley all over the yar-rd.
“I saw ut next mor-rnun’. We all saw it,
’n' the bipod on the bricks, too; but ’twas
nothin’ more than the blood iv Andy’s ould
cow-hound, kilt in the fall ; ’n’ never a woman
or a child was hurted at all.
“Which shows you,” said Flynn wisely,
“ ’tis aisy t’ dthrame, but oncommon har-rd
t’ make a c’rect interpretation iv the same.”
EDDYSON.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
fiSKS*?
» 5*
*>*«»»
/
tf'
&
\
>3
A
sf
\
'¥£
WA
Va
w
as*
&5
V*fi^
r /A
rdr.
w'yj^A
?y
s
gj///- yjt
WfW 'ff fy,i*
kW
f
Ki
sums*'
sfyp
7M
5*
i
S? 5
iO
R*
Cobra, n &f>e Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Does his sentry
Duty too.
j
Now he must
Relieve the Bear,
Who has bravely
Done his share.
While the restino*
Army sleeps
Gallantly his
Watch he keeps,
And the brilliant
Stars in line
Like far tins
Of “COBRA" shine.


wiNfred" cigarettes
w
A*
R
E
D
C
i
C 3
v'X
B
TT
E 3
THE MATCH OF THE SEASON.
F
I
N
E
S
T
V
I
R
G
I
N
I
A
6°
io
FOR
DELICIOUS IN FLAVOUR UNIQUE IN QUALITY
OF ALL HIGH CLASS TOBACCONISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO,, LTD., London. Eng
20 | /
forX/"
The Inky Way
The virtue of the latest Australian War
Song, published in Melbourne, is in its
patriotic moderation —as regards price. Sut-
tcns Proprietary publishes “Sons of Aus-
tialia” at 6d. the song, words, music and a
photo group of four expeditioners on the
wrapper. Four verses and a chorus, set to
stirring melody, for sixpence! It brings
patriotic songfulness within the reach of all
classes. Even the squatter who is about to
be ruined again by Labor Government can
afford a “tanner” from the wreck.
* * * *
Probably the smallest war special editions
are being issued by the Winton (Q.)
Herald. The sheet measures sJiu. by ojin.,
and the news (on the issue that reached
The Bulletin) 4in. by l|in. Those “extra -
ordinaries” are published daily (Sunday
and Tuesday excepted), and 4s. a month is
the cost to subscribers.
* * * *
“Singemoine” : How slavishly our pur-
veyors of journalese exploit phrases which
have no local signification. A Sydney daily,
referring to “The Chorus Lady” the other
week, said. "It assumes here the character
of transpontine melodrama.” There is no
melodrama “on the other side of the bridge
in Australia. The gag comes from London,
and would not be understood there by the
average playgoer of this generation. It
originated, I fancy, when the old Surrey
Theatre was the home of the howl-and-sob
class of play—the Surrey, like its rival, the
Elephant and Castle, being on the “south
side of the Thames.” Later, the Adelpln
became the home of melodrama. The W est-
ender had not to cross any bridge to get to
the Adelplii, of course, but the papers still
clung to the old phrase, and the Adelpln
stuff was usually called “transpontine.
During the recent elections a number of
Freetrade politicians and newspapers termed
the Protectionists “ultra-montanes.” One
struck such phrases as “the ultra-montane
section of the Protectionist wing.” It is
possible only to make a guess, at the in-
tended meaning. When an Italian calls a
German “tramontane” he means barbaric
or uncouth. When a French republican uses
the phrase in relation to an Italian he
means that the latter is a blind Romanist.
But what right has it in the fiscal galley !
This business of importing gags from the
other side of the earth is beginning to make
fools of the importers.
“T.”: Lurking on my desk is a circular
from the Austialian Journalists’ Associa-
tion. It sets out that some of its members
are unemployed or partially unemployed,
and I am asked to supplement the profits
of the papers that have sacked them by
diverting a portion of my salary from the
butcher and the costumifere. I rise to demand
why any pressman —with the exception,
perhaps, of district, correspondents, whose
remarks upon the progress of the main
street drain are just now ruthlessly
slaughtered, should be out of work in Syd-
ney. Is the war hitting the “great” dailies
so hard that the cutting-down of expenses
is necessary to ensure proprietors and share-
holders at'least one tin of sardines per day
and a baked rabbit on Sundays? With the
exception of the Sun (which seems about
the most generous to its staff of the lot), the
Sydney dailies have been making big profits
for years. And didn’t these papers remark
quite recently that the business man who
kept his staff going was a greater patriot
than the fellow who sacked his hands and
sought advertisement through the war
funds? # #
“Sketcher” : Hugh McCrae, who has just
passed through London en route to America,
was much baffied by the intricacies of the
thoroughfares of the Bull Babylon. He
bought a large map, which was even more
mystifying than the streets themselves. It
was two furlongs square in size. The foot-
paths, being too narrow, McCrae used to
open it in the middle of the street. There,
vuun ng his finger clown the main arteries, lie
vainly tr'ed to see his way out, till the blasts
of a hui died motors and the yells of a thou-
sand vcd faced policemen made him realise
that his multitudinous chart was holding up
the traffic. “Museum, .Tames.” he muttered
when he took refuge in a taxi. He had had
the extraordinary foresight to put up at an
hotel right opposite the ancient landmaik or
mausoleum—the place to which the Private
Secretary resorted in quest of a Bath bun.
The Wairoa (M.L.) Guardian was
brought out by a queer staff the other day.
The regular men had departed suddenly to
do some fighting in a foreign land, and the
manager and a typiste were all that re-
mained. The manager could work the
machine, but he couldn’t snatch type, so he
did a little scouting in the township
in search of ex-comps. He found one
working in a stock and station-agent’s
office, and borrowed him. Next the
local parson was discovered to have more
than a nodding acquaintance with type, so
he was roped in. Then someone remembered
that the local John Hop had been a comp.,
and he was duly led to the case. A member
of the horsehair fraternity, who heard about
the scratch staff, went along to do the fold-
ing, and the edition was pushed out to time.
It’s not every paper that can boast it was
once put through the press by the combined
efforts of the Church, the Law and the Police.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” : The traveller on
the Inky Way in Van Diemen’s Land had a
rough path to follow in Governor George
Arthur’s time (1823-36). His Ex. acted as
censor, and had proofs of the paper sent
him on the morning of publication. He made
havoc on the proofs, and Andrew Bent, of
the Gazette, had a horror of him. Towards
the end of 1823 Bent ruined himself by writ-
ing articles reflecting on the government of
Arthur, describing him as the “Gidconite of
Tyranny.” Arthur had him arra'gned for
libel it cost Bent £2OO and three months’
gaol Also, he lost his post as Government
Printer. Bent then procured type and secured
I)r. Ross as manager (a man of high accom-
plishment, who had long conducted the
Gazette and the Hobart Town Courier).
Pretty soon, for more irregularities, Bent
was fined £lOO and got another three months’
o-aol. Arthur continued to pursue him until
he left Tasmania a broken man. He died in
Sydney Benevolent Asylum in ISSO. Then
there 'was Gilbert Robertson, editor of the
True Colonist, who, twice a week, wrote
articles of deadly hatred dealing with the
Governor. He charged Art! ur with forgery.
Result • four months’ jug and a fine of £5O.
For another attack, accusing the Governor of
appropriating hay to his own account, lie got
eight months and a fine of £l2O. Next Rob-
ertson was fined £2O for libelling a solicitor,
and in addition got a month While still in
gaol he was presented with a further 1-
months and a £5O fine for libelling a disrepu-
table nephew of the Governor This nephew
was a member of John Batman s Port 1 hillip
Syndicate. Then Henry Melville, uropi'iet i
and editor ef the t Times, fell m
disgrace for defending a man who had been
condemned to death for cattle-stealing on tne
most untrustworthy evidence imaginabl .
Melville was prosecuted for contempt o
Court, sentenced to be imprisoned tor
months, lined £2OO, and ordeied to find pi-
ties for his good behavior for two years, £-Ot
himself and two at £l5O each. These men
were kept in the confined space of the con-
demned cell, swarming with vermin ana
lately occupied by a crowd of the worst
malefactors. At last Governor Arthur was
recalled, and the Cornwall Chronicle (of
which John Pascoe Fawkner was founder)
published a thanksgiving supplement which
wound up thus: “Reioice . Tor the Daj
Retribution Has Arrived!”
¥■ * * *
\ British editor, being summarily sacked,
is entitled to 12 months’ pay. So it was
laid down in a London case the other day.
The plaintiff wasn’t an editor, but the judge
threw in this information as make weight.
Assistant editors and sub-editors may also
draw substantially on the boss when lie hies
them suddenly. A reporter is entitled to
one month’s pay. #
An *lnky Way curio is The Nowra
Pickwick, vol. 1, No. 41, Monday, Noyem
Ik r 21 ISB4. It is “printed for the pro-
prietor’ by C. I. Watson, published every
morning at seven o’clock, and is sold only to
subscribers. No single copies for sale. it
consists of four pages, each nine inches by
six inches, and (this particular copy, at
least) on terra-cotta-colored paper. 1 here
is a woodcut of the celebrated Mr. Pickwick
in the conventional attitude, right arm ex-
tended, left hand under coat-tails. Its
motto is “hum vivimus vivamus (Let us
live while we live). Its paragraphs, per-
sonal —exceedingly so. It has just 12 quiver-
tisements, one being from Mrs. Ann
Ilyam, Royal Victoria Hotel, Terrara.
Another is from the Prince of VS ales Hote .
Nowra. kept by Anton Wolf. Also H-
Weigand wants it to be known that lie made
the first buggy in Shoal-haven; and the
Crown Variety and Dramatic Company
advertises its appearances at Terrara, Oam-
bewarra and Kangaroo Valley. One par. is
a sample of many. ‘ Yes, Julia M— —- was
at the play on Saturday night, and she took
the precaution to keen clear from that
weather-beaten, inquisitive individual who
hovers around certain pubs for the purpose
of decoying the innocent, good girl.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” :
Ayrovos Billy Blue (recent issues): J. B. Martin,
an ancient colonist, dating from the first ’3Q’s, has
left us an interesting book of reminiscences. Therein
he says that Billy Blue was an “American black,
living on the North Shore, Sydney, who brought a
bag of ovsters daily for sale. He was a very old
colonist, and well acquainted with everyone s private
affairs and well liked. He became quite privileged,
and when be met the Governor in the streets used
to play the part of Court Jester, and give him veri-
hard hits, much to his amusement. He had a fine
property on the North Shore, called Blue’s Point, and
one of his sons became a Presbyterian minister.
STANZAS ANENT THE CHRONIC INSOBRIETY
OF SPACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Have you noticed. O my brothers, on the weary
Inky Way,
While you’re toiling on like Titans at your thankless
jobs each day,
That an enemy' of ours, who owns a desolating thiist,
With the management’s approval is for ever on the
burst ?
Long and soberly we labor, but the deathless things
we write
Never get upon the linos, on the days when Space
is tight.
On a high-class ev’ning journal, long before the
stroke of three,
As a rule, the brute has reached about the zenith of
■ his spree;
And the news of his behaviour is officially sent forth,
To the Heps, and Senate eastward, to the Law Courts
in the north ;
To the State House, and the roundsman, and the
great “Departments” men
Goes the message: “Out like blazes. Space is on the
burst again!”
Heavyweight financial critics, and each noble sporting
scribe,
Stodgy leader-writing persons, and the whole blamed
“special” tribe
Sit and thump their worn tripewriters in a manner
most adept,
For, whatever else is outed, room for them is duly
kept;
But the cub who has a story that would set the
town alight
Is allowed two sticks to tell it on the days when
Space is tight.
So he sits in gloom and broods upon the evil that
subs, do,
Cursing loud the ads. and “write-ups” that assist to
pay his screw,
But takes comfort, thinking: When I’m down to “do”
the Golden Shore,
And explain to Peter briefly: “Press; my name is
on the door,”
He'll mest likely touch his forelock, readily observ-
ing, “Right!”
For it seems extremely doubtful that old Space up
there is tight!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


sdf
sdf
JI£4RNE^
sd
Never Neglect a Cold
If you do, you may find yourself engaged in a
desperate fight with the Demon of Consumption.
Why run unnecessary risks when a DOSE or TWO of
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Is generally sufficient to CUPE the WORST
COUGHS and COLDS
“We are never without a bottle of
Bronchitis Cure in the house now. It practically
saved my little girl's life. She was seven years' /
old last July, and had been subject to Bronchitis
since birth. I nearly lost her two years ago. She
was wasting away and nothing did her any
good, and her Cough at night was very pain-
ful. I was advised to try HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure. I got a bottle, and she
began to improve immediately under your
Medicine. You would be surprised to see
how her Chest has filled out. She has not
had an attack of her old complaint since. We are
so thankful to see her in perfect health ."
E. TAYLOR,
Bridport Terrace, Adelaide.
Sold by all RELIABLE CHEMISTS and STORES.
If unobtainable locally, send direct to _ ~
V/. G. Hcarne & Co.
GEELONG
VICTORIA
CAUCUS
6-
CALDS
IF
(S6OL6CT6P
may
lead to Consumphon.
ir
<
yjns'i
i
A
m
//
=4 f
'v
vr
&
V'S
fsd
When Weaning Baby
The Best Food to give is
The ‘Alfenburys’ Milk Food No. 1.
On the addition of water as directed, it forms an accurately estimated
humanised milk, and may be given alternately with the natural food
without fear of upsetting the 'child or causing digestive disturbance.
Weaning can therefore proceed gradually with comfort both to mother
and child. Farinaceous foods should not be given at this time.
4Sllenburgs Foods
| am PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING AND MANAGEMENT FREE "WR
Allen & Hanbarys Ltd.
LONDON, ENGLAND, and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,
There is no need for Australians 10
use
imported tooth pastes. The proprie-
tors of
EUDENTA
invite The Bulletin readers to lest
without expense this popular
TOOTH PASTE
No dentifrice from abroad can compare
with the peppermint flavored (blue
'ox') Eudenta.
1/- per tube.
Write to
ROCKE, TOMPSITT 8 CO., Melbourne,
for a free sample, or, if Eudenta is un-
obtainable from your chemist or store,
send 1/3 in stamps for a large tube,
which will be sent post free.
f
EUDENTA Preserves and
Whitens the Teeth.
"THE LONE HAND" for Good Stories and Bright Articles.
Price 6<L


Jam Spoon and Butter Knife,
richly hand-engraved, in- Silk lined
Case, 10/0.
Butter Dish and Knife,
“Shell” Shape, finest Sil-
ver-plated Nickel Silver,
A 1 quality, Satin Glass,
16/G.
Salad Bowl and Servers, pure
Silver-plated Out Crystal Glas3,
12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-
Fern Pot, pure Sil-
ver-plated, A 1 Qual-
ity, richly em-
bossed, 31in. high,
12/6.
Teapot, pure Silver-plated, richly
engraved, “Empire” Design, 4
CO/-; o 35/-
liand-
gill,
Iloney jar, pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver Frame, “Thistle”
Design, 8/6.
A. Saunders
SycJnex’s Leading Jeweller
you can always rely on getting the very newest, most varied
and modern ideas in Silverware from the House of A. Saunders,
Beautiful selections—ideal for Wedding or Birthday Gifts;
quite moderately priced, too. Try us with a trial order and see.
Frorr\.
Dinner Cruet, P';rc Silver-
plated Frame, richly bur-
nished, Crystal Glass
, Bottles, 12/6, 15/**
17/6. 20/-
Spirit Frame of Solid Oak, pure Silver-
plated Mounts, Cut-glass Bottles, 35/-
WE PAY POSTAGE
TO ANY ADDRESS.
Hot Water Jug, pure
Silver-plated, richly Hand-
engraved “Fern” Design,
25/-*
Hot Water Kettle and Stand,
pure Silver-plated, richly engraved
Buttdifly Design, £2/10/-.
CATALOG FREE—
ALSO NEW SUPPLEMENT.
Sugar Scuttle
Scoop, P»re
plated handsomely
engraved, 30/-.
and
Silver-
Hand-
Bread Board, pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver Floral Design, com-
plete with Knife, £2.
817 GEORGE STREET (opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
807-
a
i
w
d
'f
Anaemia and Weakness
I
I
7i
“Nervy** and “Run-down”
Old English Proverbs illustrated. Ncf. I.
One good turn deserves another
Don’t remain Weak, Anaemic, “Nervy,
“ Run-down ’’
Don’t continue to suffer needlessly. Get well the “W incarnis
way—the quick, sure and safe way to health. 1 here i&
nothing to canal “Wincarnis” for Anaemia, Weakness, Nerve
Trouble, Sleeplessness, Exhaustion, Fatigue, Depression, or
alter severe illness, or in “Run-down” conditions. Because
“Wincarnis” is a Tonic, a Restorative, a Bloodmakcr and a
Nerve Food — all. in one. It creates new strength, new Mgoi,
new blood, new nerves and new life. And the benefit begins
from even the first wineglassful. You can actually feel it
doing you good." You can feel it dancing through your veins
like a stream of new life. “Wincarnis” is recommended by over
10,000 Doctors, because it is the only Wine Tonic of any
repute that does not contain drugs. Therefore you are safe
in taking
**** AAAA^
■
A
The Wine of Life.
Don’t remain Weak, Antenic, “N >rvv.” “Run-down —ta
of the new health and new life “Wine-arms offers you.
thousands have suffered as you suffer, and they have got 1
advantage
Countless
ell. as you
will get well if you take “Wincarnis.” Remember. “
not merely pa toll you up-it will give you new life,
just one bottle."
Wincarnis” will
Will you try
be obtained of all Wine Merchants, or Licensed Chemists or Crocers.
“WINCARNIS" can


sdf
liX
Wmmm
< Ssasi
mm
san
.
.
PH
ss
:• •:
s£3sS
■ ■'
aw
*vvi*y,
* % V *#<r
«.>:d
&£&<l
S 2
RH9
.'%••>. .
THORNE’S WHISKY is a
gentleman’s dri n k —al ways
pleasing and acceptable.
It is the finest spirit produced
at Glenlivet, the traditional home
of Scotch Whisky, where it has
been distilled for eighty years. Its
mellowness, quality and distinctive
flavor, have never varied.
Thorne’s —in the “black square”
bottle —-is the universal favorite
among men.
Old
Highland
Malt
“Incomparable”
sdf


DISORDERED LIVER.
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS
AN EXCELLENT CORRECTIVE.
Most women suffer from headaches, and
here is the “Perfect Remedy.” writes Mrs.
Caroline Moore, 27 Liverpool Street,
Adelaide, S.A.: “I have much pleasure in
recommending Dr. Morse s Indian Root
Pills as a splendid cure for headaches
caused by a disordered liver. I am glad
to sav that they have done me much good,
and cured me of that distressing complaint.
You may use this as you so desire, it may
benefit others.” ' ~ . .
To overcome headaches it is necessary to
cret at the cause. Drugs which act on the
heart and reduce the pulsations only have a
temporary effect. If you suffer from Indi-
gestion. Constipation, Disorder of the Liver
and Kidneys, there is no better remedy than
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.* •
DANIELU
HOTEL;
BRISBANE,
810-SHOWMEN!
THERE’S only one BEST Biograph.
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.’
logue. Sole agents: Jerdans, Ltd.
Street, Sydney.
We can prove
Send for Cata-
, 393 George
Wars come and go, and armies fade, and cannon
perish and rest, and men die and are eaten by worms,
and cities fall into ashes and ruin, and the crowns of
royalties are pawned, and the feathers on the cocked
hats of generals blow away. But woman is immortal,
and she is always beautiful, and the spring catalogue
of David Jones and Co., of Sydney, shows how she
should be clothed. For if she isn’t clothed after the
fashion which is expounded by David Jones and Co.
she will cease to be woman as we know her. There
is nothing gained by being dowdy in a time of stress.
Rather should the brightest ornament of our civilisa-
tion put on her best plumage and set her face gaily
to good or ill fortune. Therefore she cannot do better
than apply for David .Tones and Co.’s booklet, which
is free on application.*
Diamonds Reduced Enormously.
Never before in the experience of
Australia were so many Diamonds
sold as last year. Our Sales were
enormously large.
WHY?
Well, we, some two years ago,
took on a Sole Agency, calling for
an enormous output, and, to live
up to it, we decided to offer Dia-
monds at merely a broker's com-
mission above cutters’ landed cost.
The first year it did not pan out
too well, the second year the very
large output told, and so we are
continuing the experiment for
another year.
We only sell the higher grades of
Diamonds, but our prices are
lower than those of London.
3 Fine Blue Sap-
phires and 2 Dia-
monds, set in
Platinum, choicely
cased, £5/5/-
6 Pine White Dia-
monds, set in
Platinum, choicely
cased, £2O.
vr**'
BaSrfia!
mm
Selected Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
choicely cased,
£lO/10/-
Choice Velvet-blue
Sapphire and 2
Diamonds, set in
Platinum, choicely
cased, £6 /6 /-
3 Fine Blue Sap-
phires and 4 choice
Diamonds, set in
Platinum,
£B/8/-
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
fsd
Plain Figures—Cash Only.
23=25 Hunter Street.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“Black Swan” writes: Considering the
small population of Westralia, Premier
“Happy Jack” Scaddan is preparing for a
downfall which even Holman, of N.S.W.,
may envy. In August he spent £68,359
more than he received, and in seven months
lm has scattered, in his Happy Jack fashion,
£644,093 more than his revenue. That
would be equal to about £3,500,000 of deficit
in N.S.W. Now the Happy one begins to
discharge toilers wholesale, because he lias
had such a glorious, casual burst that he
can no longer find the wages. It things
become much worse he will probably
and leave somebody else to drag the btate
out of insolvency while he sits around and
criticises.
At lvooyong (Vic.), during an election
when the Labor vote showed a general in-
crease on previous totals, the mostly-demo-
cratic Vida Goldstein programme failed to
obtain support equal to that of last year.
The lady, no doubt, met her greatest losses
at the poll owing to the inclusion of this
item in her programme: “Abolition of com-
pulsory military training.” What Vida
wants to see is “that Australia may not
develop as a military nation; that the boys
of our country may be trained in principles
of love and peace, not of fear and suspicion ;
and that the rights of conscience may be
held to be the most precious possession of
every citizen.” With the loving Deutscher
pouring out his compassion on the nations,
•i he Kooyong electors evidently thought. it
•wise to show an equally affectionate feeling
—and Vida is still feeling the bump.
[Frank llenty, Glen Iris, Victoria.]
THE COMPLETE UNIMPORTANCE OF
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY.
Mr. Fisher said that his party intended to deal
first with national questions and then to commence
on the tariff. —Newt item.
Australia: “So you don't consider employ-
ment a national question. '
[Signed in conformity with the Act, and with
profound disrespect in other ways and direc-
tions, by Oswald Prior, Moonta Mines, South
Australia.]
The re-capture of the Defence portfolio
by George F. Pearce, and the fact that the
Department is assured (acts of God and
other calamities discounted) of another three
years under his common-sense administia-
tion, have created joy throughout the Com-
monwealth military forces. Pearce’s three
years at the Department (1910-13) were
the most momentous in (he development ot
Australia’s defence scheme (almost the
identical scheme, by the way, that learce
had himself prepared for the consideration
of the 1909 Imperial Conference, only to see
it foster-motliered by Foxton, and soullessly
commandeered by the Fusion as its very own).
To Pearce must be given credit for any
efliciency Australia’s army possesses to-day,
particularly in the matter of supplying it-
self with equipment made in its own fac-
tories. In the 14 years of Federation there
have been 11 different men at the head of
the Defence Department, and Pearce is the
only one who has controlled the job on
more than one occasion. This is his third
appearance.
[Harold Burston, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
THE PINCH OF HARD TIMES.
Hence the civil servants are to be cut down, and
men on public works reduced to half-time, so that
the burden may be distributed amongst as many as
possible, and the weight of it to the individual
thereby minimised. —Sydney Telegraph, on Premier
Holman’s proposals.
AUSTRALIA: “ H’m! Holman might have cut
out the luxuries first."
“Three Cheers” : The German horde hav-
ing been fairly started on the long road back
to Berlin, this seems the right moment to
recall an interesting article by Hilaire
Belloc in the London Magazine. Belloc
pointed out that Germany, with the fumes of
1870-1871 still strong in its head, never made
much provision in the shape of fortifications
for supporting the army after a sizable
defeat. That is to say, it made provision
on the Russian side, but very little on the
French side. The great, expensive fighting
machine was to go on and on, and only re-
turn triumphantly to Berlin when it felt
homesick and in need of a drink. Now it is
going home sullenly, coat-tails first, and
there is practically nothing for it to fall
back on—unless it is the bayonet of the
oncoming Bear.
W. G. Spence is sent to the Post Office,
and it is a big job for the grandfather of the
new Labor Ministry. A proposal to intro-
duce Ah Sin to some mines in northern Vic-
toria set Spence out on his life job of labor
organising. He thus became the father of
the A.M.A., and was its general secretary
while it grew to be the biggest inter-State
union in Australia. After that, with his
headquarters still at Creswiek, he started to
work on the bushmen, and for 20 years has
been the chief guide and head philosopher,
first of the shearers’ union and then of the
A.W.U. It was not till 1898 that lie
thought about entering Parliament. Then his
admirers made him member for Cobar, and
either in the Assembly or the Reps, he has
stood for the mulga and the saltbush ever
since. A wise old greybeard, he knows a great
deal about more things than anybody else
in the House. He has a marvellous memory,
which never drops anything. As the adminis-
trator of a big business he is an experiment,
but in Cabinet he will be worth the money.
The A.W.U. influence in the caucus must
have got for him his place. He certainly
would not have battled for it himself. If
the party had tried for a year it couldn’t
have found a man more unlike the last Labor
p M.G., the brilliant but erratic C. E. Frazer.
Frazer, the baby of the Ministry, couldn’t
help being aggressive. Spence, the patriarch,
is the mildest-mannered man that ever plotted
victory for a militant union.
[S. H. Prior, 214 Georgc-street, Sydney.]
Justice Pring, sitting as a Royal Commis-
sion, has considered the case of Jones and
Osborne, the two members of the N.S.YV.
Assembly who acted as agents for the sale
to Government of the Boorabil estate. They
got, or were promised, a handsome commis-
sion for selling Boorabil to the Government.
They voted that the Government should pur-
chase Boorabil. They had access to the
Government in a way that wouldn’t apply
in the case of an ordinary agent. The
Government was in need of their votes. And*
the verdict of the Royal Commission was
that the Government bought Boorabil.
The, new Australian Cabinet consists of
no less than 11 members. Fisher is Prime
Minister and Treasurer; Hughes, Attorney
General; Pearce, Minister for Defence
Tudor, Minister for Customs: Arthur is Ex
ternal Affairs; Archibald, Home Affairs;
Spence runs the Post Office ; Gardiner holds
the hazy billet of Vice-President of the
Executive Council; and Mahon, Jensen and
Russell are honorary or jobless. Ministers
King O’Malley is honorary or jobless has
been.
[James Edmond, 214 George-street, Sydney.l
The remarks of Lloyd George about Eng-
land winning’ in the end “with the silver
bullet” should make Australia’s feverish
loan-mongers a little uneasy in their con-
sciences, if nowhere else. At the present
moment the Australian politician would
rather perish singing the Anthem at a street
corner than be called disloyal; but every
shilling that is borrowed from Cohen leaves
Cohen a little shorter for England. In
times like the present England needs a long,
long Cohen.
[S. H. Prior, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
What time some of the Federal elections
remained in the doubtful stage the most
anxious Fusionists in Vic. were Ahern at
Indi, and Coldham at Ballarat. For a day
or two, whilst the results lay hidden in the
absent votes, these two possibles exchanged
telegrams of encouragement. At last Cold-
ham reported that the numbers were getting
worse instead of better for him, and Ahern
replied: “In the same boat as yourself, old
man. Slowly sinking.”
[Edmund Fisher, Bulletin Office, 369 Collins-
street, Melbourne.]
The cry of “Hermes,” the tent-dweller: —
The question of the landlord’s share of the slump
will come up very shortly. N.S.W. Government
proposes to put some thousands of men on half-pay,
and naturally the half-timer is anxious to know if the
landlord will, under these unfortunate circumstances,
accept half-rent. So far, the landlord has not rushed
in like a bear with a sore head or a Melbourne Cup
winner, and made offers of reduction. There are some
thousands of him in and around Sydney, but, so
far, only one has made public the fact that he is
willing to meet the case. He made a ghastly gap
in his - income by reducing the price of a small
suburban terrace from 225. 6d. to 21s. per week.
On the other hand, numbers of landlords have rushed
to the limelight by ejecting the families of men who
have enlisted in the expeditionary force as full and
complete privates. The income of the private does
not appeal to the landlord as good security, especially
as the private is going to a place where shooting
seems painfully frequent. Writer has a dark sus-
picion that a good investment these times is a tent.
If 10,000 people deliberately sack the landlord and
take to living in tents, the pressure on the house
supply will be greatly diminished. If 20,000 do it
the shout of the strong landlord in his agony will be
heard a considerable distance.
HE HAD BEEN STRUCK.
MICK (still dazed): “Be croipes! Am I Joe
Cook or the Koiser? ”
One of Maoriland’s short-dated lOU’s,
handed to Cohen by lousepli Ward about
four years ago, is due to return in a few
months. It is worth £3.000,000. Treasurer
Allen has already heard the roll of its three
balls, and has called on Cohen and Kohn
and Cohenstein and Cohenloup and Lom-
bardofski and Ballstein to take the thing
home for another term. But Antiporkstein is
stone deaf to the cry, and on the three or
four times it has been raised has merely
looked more unpleasant. Consequently,
Allen is in a sweat of apprehension, like a
man who sees a 100 ft. dead whale coming
ashore and has to bury it all by himself with
the jawbone of an ass.
THE PREVAILING EOIDEMIC.
INQUISITIVE STRANGER : “ Who is that chap
over there, and what is he doing? ”
BOY: "Sh-h-sh! Not so loud . That's the
president of the Australian Peace Society,
and I'm expecting him to enlist at any
minute."
The defeat of the Germans on the Marne
is said to have been partly due to a short-
age of petrol for their motor tract ion. \\ men
suggests a new motto: “Trust in God and
keep your petrol wet.”
The Prussian disposition to intrigue and
duplicity is not incompatible with a Quite
artless faith in the credulity of other
nations. Clearly the Kaiser expected that
the Belgian Government could be persuaded,
on politic grounds, to smooth the way for a
German invasion of France. General Von
Emnuch’s proclamation, when he entered the
little kingdom of industry, expressed a
childish confidence that the Belgians would
be bounced by it. “Our greatest desire is to
avoid a conflict. But we must have a clear
road. The destruction of bridges, tunnels
and railways will have to be considered hos-
tile actions. I hope that the German army
will not be called upon to fight y0u....1
guarantee that the Belgian population wdl
not have to suffer the horrors of war, ’ etc.,
etc. In all forms of arrogance there is a
good deal of stupidity.
“Parlor Tactics”: Now that the riotous
and untidy war game seems to be going
the other way (which, of course, is the right
way), my brother-generals are writing as
with deep inner knowledge of how the
accursed enemy was “lured” away down to
Paris. I don’t want to be unduly
sarcastic, but, judging by General French’s
report of the first desperate fighting, the
tumultuous and unending foe could not have
needed more than a nominal amount of lur-
ing. The blood-mad rhinoceros doesn’t need
any inducement to charge, or the puff-adder
to strike, and the big-game hunter who hur-
ries home in front of his roaring lion, pro-
claiming that he has brought the animal with
him alive, and always intended to do so,
arouses certain doubts. If the German
really was lured, he did most of his own
luring.
BLOODTHIRSTY BRAGGADOCIO.
[Fob The Bulletin.]
London., August 6.
We have had the epoch of gold, of grass, and of
grain. We are now experiencing the epoch of grape-
shot. In three days Germany has declared war upon
Russia, upon France, upon Belgium, and upon ling-
land. Napoleon, in his most monomaniacal state,
never dreamt of throwing the gauntlet down to four
armed countries simultaneously. The Kaiser appears
to have suddenly been bereft of his senses. There
can be no other rational explanation of his blood-
thirsty braggadocio.
—London correspondent of Sydney Sun.
With many words we’ve lamed the foe.
(“Bloodthirsty braggadocio.”)
Right out of France he’s got to go.
(“Bloodthirsty braggadocio.”)
The Allies laid the Kaiser low.
(“Bloodthirsty braggadocio.”)
The Sun, too, dealt him many a blow.
(“Bloodthirsty braggadocio.”)
They took his guns and tore his flag.
lie’s got to go!
We’re sick of his bloodthirsty brag-
Gadocio.
And if he keep his jaw a-wag
We’ll tell him so,
In syllables to make him sag,
Ranged in a row!
BLOODTHIRSTY BRAG! BLOODTHIRSTY
BRAG !
GADOCIO ! (Hip-hip-hooray !)
N.s.w. A BLOODTHIRSTY BRAGGART.
DRIVES FROM DRINK.
(A touching poem, of the war.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The fact that half-emptied bottles of champagne,
beer and absinthe were found on the tables in many
of the deserted houses along the German lines of
retreat testifies to the suddenness of the enemies
departure. —Recent cable.
Their broken guns were strewn around,
Their broken men lay on the ground
In awesome postures strangely wreathed,
Like arabesques that lately breathed,
And gold and jewels ’mid the dead
Told with what speed the Germans fled. .
They left their boots because they must:
We couldn’t see their heels for dust.
They left their coats and shirts behind,
And rushed like devils down the wind,
I Insertions here one can excuse —
The stricken wretches left their boose 1
Upon the tables bottles fine
Half-filled with beer, or ruin, or wine.
From Paris German armies fled,
And still we were not comforted.
But now ’tis plain the end is near —
The foe is driven from his beer 1
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


A Sound Investment
Buy a Player Piano from
Paling’s. You will never
regret your purchase, the
pleasure you obtain will
astonish and delight you.
In their various grades
they are absolutely the
Very Best Value that
money can possibly buy.
Let us send you an inter-
esting Art Booklet —post
free. Write to-day.
Estey Organs
“The World’s Standard”
They are marie in America, the home of
reed-organ building, and are suitable for
Home use, Churches, Chapels, Mission
Halls and Convents, etc. Our selection
includes small fold-up organs for camp
and open-air use. The model below is
Style 1232. Price £23. Easy Terms.
Others from £lO/10/-
fd
sf
VICTOR
Player Pianos
mm
Also VICTOR PIANOS, SAMES, RONISCH, LIPP & BELLING PIANOS
WRITE TO-DAY for CATALOGUE and PRICE LIST POST FREE
Easy Time Payments
Palin g’s
338 George Street Sydney
BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, LISMORE, TOOWOOMBA
Country Customers
may rely upon obtaining
a sound and thoroughly
reliable Player Piano,
Piano and Organ, or
other Musical Instrument
when they leave the
selection to us.
Every instrument is made
of the Finest Material
and fully guaranteed by
us for Durability and
Satisfaction.
IJWhen writing please
mention which instru-
ment you are interested
in.
Estey Organs
They have no Equal
The proof of this assertion will he found
in the instruments themselves. They
are constructed of the very finest
materials, and have been specially selected
for Australia —will last a lifetime. Our
illustration shows Model 547, an artis-
tic Organ, fully guaranteed. Price
£4O. Easy Terms.
sdf
SIEMENS
stocK Motors
and Generators.
Siemens R. Type Motor.
Made at Stafford, England.
Our Australian
Stocks comprise
D.C. Generators,
D C. flotors,
Si ngle= Phase
Motors,
Th ree=Phase
Motors, and
Machine
Accessories
Of every
Description.
We can usually supply from Stock to suit any
ordinary requirements. Let us have your enquiries.
Siemens Bros. Dynamo
Works Limited,
59 William Street, 42 Bridge Street,
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY.
Works at Stafford, Woolwich S Dalston, England
sd
£ll/10/
Complete
AT LAST !
A PERFECT REFLEX CAMERA
AT A MODERATE PRICE
Fitted with a Zeiss Lens f/4.5 and a Perfect Shutter
giving Speeds from f/Jsth of a second to Joooth part.
The Ensign Popular Reflex
. . Is Unique in Value . .
For real value nothing approaching the BRITISH MADE ENSIGN
POPULAR REFLEX has ever been offered; it simply defies
competition.
Every bit of complication has been eliminated. No one can possibly
go wrong with it.
You see the full-size picture reflected in the mirror right up to the
rime of exposure.
Simplicity, combined with Cheapness and Efficiency, places this Camera
in a class by itself.
The size is Quarter-plate, and the Price is £ll/10/-
Complete with Six Metal Slides.
L T _ D
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide; Auckland & Wellington , N.Z.
Send for Catalogue and Special ENSIGN REFLEX BOOKLET.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Just one taste of B.L. will prove its high quality.
BULLOCH LADE (“BL”)
Is Good Whisky, and is Good for You.
Is Obtainable Everywhere, but Equalled Nowhere.
ALWAYS SEE S.V.O. WHITE LABEL.
Stay at “Scott’s 1 ”
“Scott’s” has been entirely rebuilt and
reconstructed, and is now one of the
largest and most sumptuous hotels in
Australia.
For “Show” and
“Cup” Seasons
there’s no place so convenient as
“Scott’s,” and to hook NOW is best,
so to be sure of accommodation.
Single rooms, double rooms or private
suites.
Private Attendance ’Phones in all
rooms, and Hot and Cold Water Ser-
vice in Bedrooms.
ROOF AND HALL SMOKING
LOUNGES.
Excellent Cuisine. Music by Hotel
Orchestra.
Scott’s Hotel,
Collins St., Melbourne.
’Phone Central 9012*7.
Write
To=day.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
One of the features of the outbreak of war
one 01 1 wholesale seizure of motor vehicles
5 KtT Ford ners travelling in France and
r, in their own cars suddenly discovered
German} road completing the journey
themselves out whirled off to the nearest
mditary depfit It was not much better in England,
. n * that some gentleman in uniform scribbled a
except iioo-er The biggest motor traction
m-omdetm in London was the London General
Omnibus Co. Ltd., which started business at the old
stand one morning with close on 4000 motor vehicles
of various sorts. In its ranks were over 1000 reserv-
es Its cars were stopped in the streets, the passen-
pmntied out, and the vehicles driven to the
nearest militarv depot, where the work of turning
them into fighting machines started with a .bang
The drivers were signed on for foreign service at
49s per week, with an allowance to the wives and
children of such as were married. It doesn t seem
much in return for a chance of being blown to
pieces, but, all the same, never be,ore has the
soldier mechanic been so lavishly paid m the histoiy
of war. # * *
Part of the equipment of the Australian
expeditionary force is a squadron of 140 cornmeicial
traction lorries, all high-powered three- to six-ton
vehicles purchased by the local war office fiom
various trade and commercial houses at prices rang-
ing from £5OO to nearly £lOOO. This means that
the country is skinned of the pick of its commercial
vehicles, and what with spare parts, etc., the total
value will he close upon £lOO,OOO. In Napoleons
dav armies travelled on their stomachs—to-day they
waltz alorg on their motor-lorries. Owing to short-
ness of petrol the other day the Germans had to get
off their lorries and take to their stomachs once more,
and it nearly ended in a rout. Exactly how the
Commonwealth will get along without these cars is
hard to sav Certainly thev will be nnssed mightily.
* ■ * ■ * *
The Australian one-mile motor-cycle
record has been lifted a trifle higher by J. Booth, of
Victoria. lie whizzed over the distance in .Usee. —
equal to a whirl of 70* miles per hour. It was a
splendid effort against the undertaker, and the man
with the pall and shroud went under.
* * * *
Talking of motor-cars, the T. M. Berry
Proprietary Ltd. introduced a novel machine to
Sydney last week. In this excellent contraption the
internal combustion engine does not drive the car,
hut instead drives a dynamo which makes electricity.
The result is that the expensive, delicate and
ephemeral gear box is done away with. From the
dynamo the “juice” flows to an electric motor, which
acts directly on the back axle, and drives the car
with a regular smooth motion, altogether different
from the jerky propulsion of the ordinary explosive
engine. When the car is stationary the engine can
still manufacture electricity, and the British War
Office sent some scores of them to France. They
convey troops and supplies all day, and at night
they pour out vast beams of searchlight. In fact it
looks, on a rough generalisation, as though this
machine produces absolutely as much as is put into
it. The eo. gave a demonstration to the Lord Mayor
of Sydney, and proved that the motor-’bus is faster
than the" electric tram, and just as comfortable and
cheaper. It works out at about one penny per mile.
* * * *
Speed hogs who have been looking for
some opportunity to tear over the earth at excessive
rates and quite outside the limit, will get what
they want on October 5 (Eight Hours Day). On that
Wild occasion the N.S.W. Motor Cycle Club is holding
its first Grand Prix race round the Yetholme-Sunny
Corner course —the total distance being 140 miles.
* # *• *
The Danes have seen the World’s Cycling
Championships through at Copenhagen. Leon Mere-
dith, the English crack who had been successful in
the long-distance amateur championship for seven
years, met his Waterloo. His. saddle carue loose, and
he had to retire when he had got a two-lap bleak on
the field. C. Blekemolon, of Holland, won, with J.
van Ginkey, of Belgium, second.
* * * *
J. H. Hampton, the most famous amateur
sprinter Maoriland has produced, died recently at
New Plymouth (M.L.), as the result of an encounter
with a motor-car. At first it was thought he would
recover, but a weak heart, the result of past efforts
on the track, refused to withstand the shock. He
was born in 1863, entered the M.L. Customs as a
youth, and climbed to be Collector at New Plymouth.,-
He first burst into the athletic limelight in 1889,
when, aided by a wind, he was credited with putting
100yds. behind on the Caledonian Ground at Dunedin
(M.L.) in 9 3-ssec. The wind, of course, made the
effort void as a record. A little later at Invercargill
(M.L.) he bolted over the hundred,' on a downhill
track and. pushed along by an infuriated, southern
blizzard, in !) 2-ssec.! At least, that’s what the
watches said. After that, experts began to look upon
the rising star as something out of the ordinary. In
3 890 he bagged the M.L. 100yds. championship in
even time. This was not torn from his grasp until
1894. It was on the cinders at Lancaster Park,
Christchurch (M.L.) that he made his name really
famous in 1891 by flashing over his favorite distance
m 9 4-ssec., thereby equalling the Australasian and
record that had been made at Auckland
the same year by W. T Macpherson, of
N.b.U. In 1892 Hempton was sent to Fogland with
a Maoriland athletic team, the other members of
which were Badger (the Wellington hurdler), Cuff
'the Canterbury middle-distance runner and jumper),
and Derry Wood (the Canterbury long-distance ped.).
Hempton failed in the Cold Country. The climate
prevented him striking his true form and enabled a
pair of solid, even-time London sprinters, Bradley
and Downer, to heat him every time. It was a wet,
cold season, and the team had a dismal tour.
* * *
Caspv gl ! e n t -, t , weba l lei ' before tbe Lord > Steve
7\ ,L mte v' " ut , aside the jersey at Dunedin
last nf /> °— er . d ?y- tie was just about the
last of the original “All Blacks” to quit the field.
in 6 limn “•’Jwn 1 "hated-leather pursuit away back
WhioL°i, Wlth the well-known Southern Club of the
whisky-haggis metropolis, and bv 1903 had learnt
enough to get into the Otago rep’s. He stayed
there until the last, and looked perilously like becom-
ing a permanent institution. In 1905 he went to
Fogland with the famous “All Blacks,” and in the
forward division was one of the front rank “hook-
ers” who secured the ball for the brilliant set of
backs that shook old England up in such great
style. Besides his cleverness in securing the leather
in the scrums, Casey was a lively and brainy for-
ward, and invariably played the game. He has had
a clean record, and, Rugby would be a better game
if everyoi e played it in the same spirit as Steve
Casey did. He steps down at last because his day
is done, but it will be many a year before his deeds
are forgotten. He wore the sombre black of Maori-
land in no less than 38 engagements, represented
Otago 57 times, and played for the South Island of
Loan Land on four occasions.
* * * *
Adelaide (S.A.) football put the premier-
ship shutters in their place on Saturday, when
Port Adelaide inflicted a hurricane defeat on North
Adelaide by 93 points to 14. Norths were squelched,
walloped and annihilated in the one afternoon.
Ports went through the season without defeat, which,
besides being something to crow about, goes on the
slate as a record not hitherto attained.
Wellington (M.L.) was in high glee last
Saturday. A football army from Otago made an
onslaught on the Ranfurly Shield, but was repulsed
with vigor and demoralised by 25 points to 11. On
another strip of earth, Wellington's hockey team over-
threw Auckland by Hired goals to two for the
Maoriland Championship Shield. The Windy City
seems to be picking up its shai-e of the sporting
profits.
DISADVANTAGES OF SITTING
RINGSIDE.
The disgusted Augustus bleeds into the artist's
eye at Sydney Stadium.
A wet Saturday, the first of the season,
militated against the attendance at the Vic. Hoof-
hall League’s final last week, onlv a miserable
20,229 turning out to view the collision of South
and'Carlton. In spite of greasy ball and slippery
turf a clever and swift exhibition was given the
teams alternately showing out up to half-time. The
Blues marked with their accustomed certainty and
passed well, but they lacked the clever ground
handling and the speed of the Southerners. When
the interval came there was but a point between
them—South 24 points to Carlton’s 23, but of the
play in the last half opinions differed. Carlton
appeared to be bogging in eagerly enough, vet could
do no good whatever, while South was persistently
though slowly raising its score. Remembering cer-
tain suspicions about the ’O9 final—when the" same
clubs met—there were ugly rumors and hints bandied
about, which one dubious occurrence at half-time
tended to accentuate. The Blues seemed to be
doing their best ; if so, they were outpaced and
outclassed; they put on but one point in 50 min-
rites’ play, while South added 19. finishing with 43
noints to Carlton’s 24. The result is that a “grand
final” must be played between the teams next Satur-
flay. South must win if Carlton does no better than
last week. If the Blues acquit themselves as they
have done through their previous 12 consecutive
weeks of victory, they will win all right, but they
will afford ground for much deep thought. Satur-
flay s “gate” was £863 4s. 6d., of which £352
Us. 6d. went to the Patriotic fund, so the League
wasn’t vastly enriched.
* * * *
During the week the ’Varsity club notified
the League that, having won no game for two years,
it had decided to retire and allow itself to be amal-
gamated with or swallowed by the M.C.C. hoofball
team. This, being a more or less professional body,
will not mix well with the strictly amateur Students,
though it is to be hoped they will construct a
decent team between them. The retirement leaves
the League with only nine clubs, so before next
April it must decide whether to stay as it is, with
a bye every week, or take in North, P’ran or Bruns-
wick. Either of these would make a handv tenth
club, but if one of them joins the League the Ass.
will go into hysterics,
*
A wight named Fraser has made a hurri-
cane start in Sydney Junior cricket. In a total of 471
Fraser swiped the hall heavily through and over the
adjacent boundary and scored 317 of the total. This
was the first match of the season, and bowlers are
beginning .to wonder what will happen when Fraser
gets properly going.
„ *
Sydney’s betting public is in a glorious
tangle. In August last a prad was disqualified in
an event at Moorefield, and the squabble still goes
on over the payment of the “hook” debts. The
fuel for the trouble comes from having two clubs
which fatten on the betting business instead of
being called upon to labor like citizens. On appeal,
Tattersall s Club ruled one way on the question of
the bets; while City Tattersail’s Club decided the
opposite way. Meanwhile nobody is paying out, anil
everybody is howling; and amid the Babel there is
the demand of the rooked public for the annihilation
of the superfluous money-grabber and the introduc-
tion of the totalisator. One punter put the case this
way: “It is bad enough to fight jockeys, owners and
trainers, but having to fight the books for your
brass is the end of the tether.” Perhaps the squabble
will help the blundering Holman Government to
come to a decision and introduce the clean machine.
Aquatics in Port Jackson will suffer
more from the war than most other local sports. The
big yacht clubs and the Sydney amateur sailing
clubs have already abandoned any idea of holding
races before January, 1915, while the 18ft. class and
the motor-boat races will only be run if the Defence
Department will grant permission. Swimming, too, is
hard hit. Sydney swimmers, with’ the goal of the
Olympic games in Berlin in 1916, were out for a big
season in 1914-15, and Duke Kahanamoku, the Sand-
wich Islander, was to boost the sport along. Now
Duke isn’t coming, and there won’t be any Olympiad
in Berlin in 1916. There may not be any Berlin in
1916, nor even any 1916.
* * * *■
The 10-miles’ cross-country championship
of Victoria, decided at Caulfield (Melb.) last Satur-
day, was nothing like the spectacle of some former 10-
mile events. The field, which had formerly included
well over 200 peds., dwindled to some 160 starters.
Early in the season the cross-country game gave every
evidence of winding up in fine style With the big race
on Saturday, but the war came to hand and seriously
affected the teams. A big proportion of runners are
now shouldering guns at the expeditionary camp.
Half a dozen or more peds. seemed to have a big say.
Nines, Neate and Allen were selected by most of the
prophets. However all the tipsters missed the ’bus.
W. H. Brown (St. Stephen’s harriers) did an excep-
tionally fast last mile on the course, catching 11. O.
Allen in the straight. He ran all over the Melbourne
man and beat him home by 20vds. in 59min. 3sec.—a
very fair run. Writer saw the runners after they had
covered about three miles, and Cowan (East Melb.)
was leading in great style. In fact, Cowan made
the pace most of the journey. The steady rain of the
morning converted a very hard track into splendid
going. Outside the course where the writer passed
the field B. O. Allen (Melb.) looked a Carbine in a
field of selling-platers. Vines, with two previous 10-
rnile events to his credit, was well up, and stood a big-
chance to equal Alek ' Stillwell’s record of three wins
in succession. However Vines could get no nearer
than seventh place. Brown was fully 40yds. to the
bad when the field entered the course proper on the
last mile, and Allen, at the head of affairs, looked a cer-
tainty. Brown ran an exceptionally game race —he is
the first straight-out junior harrier to capture the big
event. Carlton lost to East Melbourne in the teams
race for the Fredrico shield. Illness beat Carlton
more than the good running of East. The 10-inile
course at Caulfield has very little “cross-country”
character nowadays. The trail has to be laid along
unmade streets for most of the distance. The onetime
open paddocks are being rapidly covered with houses'.
The V.A.A.A. will either have to seek pastures new or
run the race entirely on the racecourse with extra
obstacles up. The C.C.O. to-day is indeed a very mild
affair compared with the struggles fought out'across
the Ross low ii sugar-works swamp, where many aped.
has been sucked down in the awful mud. It has been
suggested that the remains of some exhausted harrier
is resting in the swamp alongside the relics of old
Murray Ross’s sugar-works’ folly.
* * * *
The defeat of Billy Ripley for the Aus-
tralian sculling championship, on Saturday, knocked
a hole in the schemes of “Arnst’s Camp.” There
was no secret that Ripley’s chance against Charlie
I owns was considered more rosy than that between
Alt Felton and Harry Pearce a week previously—
in fact, punters laid six to four on Ripley against
Towns; but it turned out otherwise. The choppy
water was in favor of Towns (who is the better
waterman), and he pulled clean away from his rival.
However, Ripley is only a youth of 21—Towns being
12 years his senior; and when more watercraft is
knocked into him, Ripley is likely to be a vastly
improved sculler.
N.S.W. Rowing Association reverted to
an old system when it appointed W. J. Middleton to
fill the rOle of sole selecter of the Ma State’s crews
for inter-State events. “Billy” Middleton has been
coach, philosopher and engineer-in-chief of sculling
amateurs for years-and years and years. The new
billet, therefore, drops into hands that have know-
ledge bom of long experience. The Association has
also granted the Sydney clubs Enterprise and Leich-
hardt permission to trip to Melbourne Henley this
season. Leichhardt will be represented in the Grand
Challenge Cup, and Enterprise will make a desperate
effort to annex the Yarra drinking vessel.
After all, Dick Arnst does not intend
shaking up the foam in the sculling atmosphere. The
hefty Maorilander was credited with getting ready
for a smack at returning Jim Paddon ; but the form
of Felton so impressed Arnst that he threw up the
sponge, and will place his spare knowledge behind
Felton. Arnst’s efforts to get his sculling punch
back again were not over-successful; and therefore
there was much glory in the retirement. However, the
trouble about these “retirements” is that thev are
only temporary; and Arnst’s lapse may, after all,
turn out to be just a matter of convenience.
* * * *
George Siefert, of Maoriland, the tempo-
rary fairy god-mother to Australian scullers, made a
gilded offer to Ernest Barry last week. He guaran-
tees £SOO expenses, and throws in half the “boat
receipts,” if Barry will go to Wanganui, and,
on the immortal blood-stained river, row Jim
Paddon once more for the championship of the world
and a purse of £SOO. Sad to say, Barry rejected
the offer, and, inter alia , declared he will not contest
the world championship anywhere but on the Thames.
Still, Barry would like the Wanganui River if he
saw it, with its pyramidal hills of sage green, its
silver beaches, and its wonderful atmosphere of ever-
lasting peace. It is the land of dolce far niente,
which, once having been experienced, can never be
forgotten. Bea sport, Ernest, and come to Wan-
ganui—and then die.
The* totalisator got an unexpected lift at
Townsville (Q.) recently. The raising of the betting
fees from 10 guineas to 15 guineas per day so
upset the Mclsraels that they followed the Red Rag
attitude and went “on strike.” The Townsville Club,
however, pushed the programme through with the
totalisator as sole juggler of the fool’s money, and
the meeting showed a profit of £125 over the previous
year’s effort. The club is in such a splendid humor
over the venture that henceforth the machine will
be the betting factor at its meetings.
Isaac Shortodds had a fairly bad time at
the recent Tatt.’s meeting at Randwick, Sydney, and
wailed considerably as a result. But his luck there
was glittersome to what it was at Rosehill on Satur-
day. On that memorable occasion the punters got
home all the time. Just consider the starting prices
of five of the six races. In the Hurdles the winner,
Jack Rice, went out at six to four against. In the
Rosehill Guineas, Carlita won at five to four against.
The Spring Stakes fell to Gigandra at six to four
against, and the Rosehill Handicap was annexed by
Locliano. who started at five to two The pencillers’
one look in was the Rvdalmere Mile, won by Lag-
gard. who was backed down to sevens. Great gnash-
ing of teeth!
* * * *
About the last public-, utterance of the
lately-deceased great amateur athlete, James E.
Sullivan, of the U.S.A., was a warning to his country-
men that the British at the next which,
by the way, was fixed for Berlin in 1916, would be
a very formidable crowd. Probably about the time
the Olympiad should be held the city will be burn-
ing in revenge for the cruel and wanton destruction
of Louvain and Termonde and Mechlin. In all pro-
bability the Olympiad will not be held. About 100
of the best athletes in Europe were booked for the
Panama Exposition at ’Frisco, and had signed entry
forms and so forth. Said now that half the crowd
are dead and many others are wounded. A steam-
roller has passed over European sport. It is dead.
The sports are at the front, doing deeds of derring-
do in armored motor-cars, aeroplanes and scouting
parties.
A] Lippe, manager for Jeff Smith, arrived
with that Apollo-like boxer in his home land some
weeks ago. Before he went he wrote to the New
York Police Gazette an interesting letter, which
concluded: “I can assure any boxers who contem-
plate visiting Australia that it is a beautiful country
as regards climate, money, etc., also that they will
receive the fairest treatment from Mr. ‘Snowy’
Baker, the promoter.” That is ail very well, but
Lippe's neglect to mention our Beautiful Harbor is
an omission that will paifi the whole community.
Freddie Welsh, who licked Willie Ritchie
for the lightweight championship of the world, woke
up recently and discovered on his breakfast table a
challenge from Johnny Kilbane, the featherweight
champion of the U.S.A., to come out where the lights
glare and the fat. purse grows, and defend his newly-
won honors. Whereupon Freddie seized his fountain-
pen and wrote nicely that Johnny had better argue
with Willie Ritchie first and piove his class. About
the only fighter so far unchallenged by the advertis-
ing Kilbar.e is Jack Johnson, and even the negro is
feeling ur.easy.
-*■ ' * * *
Said that boxing in New York is stagnant.
The managers theie seem to have a kennel of
stipendiary pugs. They put the same old scrappers
on week after week, and ignore the stranger at the
gates and the fighters from other cities. The conse-
quence is that the public has taken to enthusiasti-
cally staying away. The Yankee always reforms besc
when his pocket is hit, so better things are
earnestly looked for.
* * * *
The curly, black-haired boy who fights
under the name of “Mick King,” and who holds the
middleweight championship of Australia, crashed
up against Augustus Christie, of the United States,
last; Saturday night at Sydney Stadium, and great
was the crash. It, was the first appearance of either
of them in Sydney, and they carried big reputations
in their gripsacks. King proved himself to lie an
elusive but fairly hard-hitting sprite, able to endure
punishment, and, above all, lie possessed the divine
gift of • being able to take a wallop, and a heavy
one, and then come in like a flash and return it,
son et-'mes with interest. The toughness of Augustus
wi.. something to marvel at. He was too slow for
this elusive Westralian boy, and King pounded him
considerably. Christie, endowed with the perfect
boxing figure and armed with a sledgehammer at the
end of each arm, rushed round the ring in a magnifi-
cent but vain effort to land only one blow. On the
other side the Australian danced lightly away, avoid-
ing those sledgehammers, and in between times
slowly battered his rival to pieces. And yet, withal,
he never ran. He side-stepped, he back-strode, but
the moment he had dodged the assault he danced
in lightly and smote, and sometimes he smote again.
It is hard to say who showed the most courage and
endurance. Showers of heavy wallops fell on
Christie. One eye was slowly closing, his nose hied,
his lip. was cut, and still he campaigned doggedly,
struggling to get home the blow that would end ii
all. He swung his fists as a blacksmith’s striker
swings his hammer; he slashed as a baseballer
slashes at a ball; he hurled blows that should have
wakened a sleeping elephant, but King, when In-
could not escape them altogether, took them on the
retreat, so that they were like blows landed on a
door which was swinging backwards. Still the self
confidence of Christie was tremendous. He knew
he carried the decisive blow, and only wanted tin-
opportunity to land it. On the other side was King,
considerably out of condition, facing a man he knew
could knock him out with one blow of either fist
could he land it fairly and squarely. Also, he knew
that no single blow of his could knock out this
hardy American. So he fought to close his eyes,,
and cut his face, and to avoid the wallop of ex-
tinction. Although his face was unmarked n'is’iw.
was covered with red splurges where the blows of
the mighty Christie had fallen. He was sent spin-
ning against the ropes again and again, and came
back on the rebound to hit the dazed American
twice and thrice in quick succession. Once, in tin-
10th, Christie nearly got him. He landed a blow
right on the solar plexus, knocking King against the
ropes and crowded in on him with his finishing
blow. It went round King’s neck, and they swayed
across to the middle of the ring, where Christie
caught him with a left hook and a right swing—but
hit his cheekbone instead of his jaw. The staggering
Australian lurched forward and fell against the
Yankee, who had drawn back to land another
smasher, almost dead to the world. His arms were
spread out, his gloved hands groped blindly, and,
finding Christie’s back, closed on it like a vyce.
Christie raged like 10 heathen deities to shake him
off, and while he raged the gong went and King
woke up and walked to his chair. They gave him
a strong dope, and when he came out again lie
unfolded a burst of ferocity that sent the Yankee
retreating all round the ring. When Corbett, of the
Sux, rose at the end of the 19th round to leave (the
last round is always reported by telephone by his
assistant) Christie called out: “Don’t go! Stop
and see me knock him out!” Thousands kept one
eye on the fight and one on the clock, waiting till
there were only nine seconds to go, and a knock-out;
was no longer possible. Then a great cheering broke
forth, and almost drowned the clanging of Kerr’s
bell that signalled the end of hostilities. As the
fighters swung apart Harald Baker strode over and
placed his right hand of benediction on the black,
curly head of King.
Christie is another example of the ultra
tough American. Where do these fellows get then-
endurance? Christie took enough punishment on
Saturday night to have finished three ordinary boxers,
and yet, riaht to the very end, he was confident of
winning. He knew he had to land only one wallop.
Jim Kendrick, a British boxer who was in the
U.S.A. recently, remarks at considerable length in
the press of the endurance of the Yankee boxer, and
admits that British and Australian fighters are soft
in the fibre compared to them. He puts the fact
down to the training methods of the American
fighters, whose sparring partners hammer at them
with ordinary boxing gloves while the fighter has his
hands encased in gloves like feather pillows. He
thinks bv the preliminary battering they become
inured to the deadly blows that lay out more gentlv
trained scrappers. It does not seem a very convinc-
ing argument, and the writer’s opinion is‘that it is
all due to eating Chicago meat. That awful stuff
kills off all but the very strongest, and those that
survive Chicago meat (as described in Upton Sin-
clair’s “Jungle”) can last out anything but a tram-
car or a meat axe.


WHY DON’T YOU LEARN
TO USE YOUR HANDS?
r
ou fully realise the importance of knowing how
to defend yourself. Because self-preservation is. part
and parcel of every fortn of life.
\ ou ought to do something to develop your natural
power. Why not learn to box —-learn to use your
hands to the best advantage. Otherwise the time
"ill surely come when you will bitterly repent your
indecision. Perhaps it may be U matter of life and
death, then —you’ll wish in vain.
There's no excuse for you not knowing how to box.
I can teach you in your own home.
1 TEACH BOXING
BY POST
I thoroughly explain the most serviceable moves
known to Kingcraft. The best moves of the most
famous living boxers will form part of your instruc-
tion. If you were entangled in a mix-up, what a
big advantage you d have —what confidence you’d
have, and that’s half the battle. Here is a letter
from one pupil:—
“I am getting along splendidly with my
boxing. I am beginning to feel sure of myself.
It is a grand pastime.”
H.E.W., Nimbin, N.S.W.
See how he’s building up confidence, because he knows how. You ought to learn “how” too.
Ynte for my 32-page booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which describes my methods, and
gives cost of tuition. It’s worth having. Send three penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
358 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
ARE YOU A CIGAR
fsd
SMOKER?
If so, I want to send
you a copy of my
illustrated catalog.
Every smoker who en-
joys a good cigar, and
desires to buy them to
the best advantage,
should send to-day for
a copy.
MY
“THREE CROWN”
MANILA GIGARS
AND CHEROOTS
are certainly wonder-
ful-value cigars for
the money. Mild in
flavor and of excellent
quality.
No. 1 CHEROOT (as
illustrated). In boxes
of 50, 14/-; 27/6
per 100.
No. 2 CHEROOT. In
boxes of 100, 21/-
CIGARS:
PEIILAS: In Boxes of
25, 6/-
lIIGH LIFE: In boxes
of 50, 12/-
REINA VICTORIAS:
In boxes of 100,
24/-
PERFECTOS: In boxes
of 25, 10/-
Postage on a box of
50, 9d.; Inter-State,
1/2.
"A. M. SOLOMON,
“ Cigar Expert,”
173 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Automobile Club of
Australia’s
Half=Gallon Petrol
Consumption Test
held on Saturday, 25 7/’l4.
First FOUR Places
.. . Secured on ...
Shellßenzine
OXO-*
cles
CQ
Send:
7-h.p. Twin, Free-engine,
3-inch Tyres, £6B.
Hen dee Manufacturing Co.
109 Russell Street, Melbourne, VIC.
Send for Catalttg' D.
HOTELKEEPERS ! HOTELKEEPERS !
ECKERSLEY’S DISPENSER
For the Rapid Production of Pure,
Crystal, Effervescent, Draught Lemon-
ade, Sodawater and every variety of
Aerated Drink.
NO LABOR! NO BOTTLE-WASHING !
NO BOTTLE FILLING. NO LABELLING OF
BOTTLES! NO BROKEN BOTTLES!
WORKS AUTOMATICALLY.
By Electric or Water Power.'
Bar attendant simply pulls a lever and mechanical
power instantly supplies the required drink.
Write for descriptive Catalog to
ECKERSLEY’S,
25a GEORGE STREET* SYDNEY,
or S. MELBOURNE,
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: Messrs. ELLIOTT DONALDSON &
DOUGLAS, 529-33 Queen Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
fsd
Wool ]
Hides
Tallow
Sheep Skins
Rabbit Skins
and Other
Produce.
S Iv E S held at
intervals by
frequent
Australian Mercantile Land
and Finance Co. Ltd.
4 BLIGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Correspondence Invited.
A RICNEy SHOE FOR YOU?
There’s a Rigney Shoe for every occasion—
dress, semi-dress or outing. They differ only
in style. The same quality, perfect lit and
smart appearance are found in every
RIGNEY model.
The illustration shows a Patent, Calf
Oxford Shoe, latest perforations. .A high-
grade, made-to-order style.
Price - - 27/0
Also in Tan and Black Velour Calf, 25/-
and 27/6.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a Copy of our Catalog,
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
f
DUNLOP
MOTOR TYRES
IcO
DO GOOD WORK
le_W K L.
l*H<
The Loyalty of Motorists
to this British-made Tyre is justified,
for it’s the Tyre that stands for
Strength and Wear. It’s the Finest
Tyre in Australasia easily giving
the best service, and it is made by
Australians. All Sizes now in Stock.
OBTAINABLE ALL GARAGES.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All States and N.Z.
“Gazer” writes: —
News from London of the death of Miss Elsie
llix has caused genuine regret in Melbourne artistic
circles. Still in the early SO’s, handsome as Juno,
with charm of manner, talent and an enviable share
of worldly goods, she seemed indeed beloved of the
gods even to her early end. Until the Rix family
left Melbourne some five or six years ago, no amateur
theatrical show was complete without Elsie. Her
magnificent presence and talent would have opened
the professional door to her, but the stage shared only
a portion of her time. She was equally devoted to
the brush, and, together with her mother (who last
year had a work purchased by the French Govern-
irlent) and sister Emmy, she gave a notable exhibi-
tion before leaving for Europe. The great wish of
her life was to enjoy the art life of the European
centres. During the past few years that desire was
gratified to the full.
A recent legal advertisement recalls a
very old-time Sydney tragedy. By order of the
trustees of the estate of the late Mrs. Mary
Iloadley, under instructions from the Master
in Equity, will be sold a property in Phillip-
street, Sydney, and another in Balmain.
Some 70 years ago—May 19, 1845 —Mrs.
Hoadley was murdered at daybreak in her
house in King-street west. The house stood
at the rear of three owned by the murdered
woman, on the site of which are now the
A.B.C. Chambers. On the coping-stone
could he read the legend, “Hoadley’s Build-
ings, 1842.” A man named Cadman (or
Skinner) was tried for the crime but was
acquitted. Mrs. Hoadley’s adopted daughter,
who became Mrs. FitzStubbs (recently
deceased), inherited Mrs. Hoadley’s pro-
perty.


’A
<r
YOUR
HEALTH
is far too valuable for exper-
iment with unknown reme-
dies, when natural strength
and vigour can be renewed
by taking SCOTT’S Emul-
sion. More than a medicine,
more than a food, this pure
strength-maker enriches the
TRADE MARK.
blood, creates
healthy tissue,
and distributes
energy and vig-
our through-
out the body.
Weakly babes,
growing chil-
dren, anaemic
mothers and all
exhausted by
illness and dis-
ease gain new
strength, renewed vitality and
good health by taking genuine
scons
Emulsion
as recommended by doctors
in every part of the civi-
lized world.
Hotel Stewart
SAN FRANCISCO
A high-class hotel very favorably known to
travellers from Australia, New Zealand and
the Orient. Headquarters for Britishers in
San Francisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. Third annex just completed. 350
rooms. 250 connecting bathrooms. Every
comfort and convenience. Beautifully fur-
nished. Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping, theatre
and cafe districts. On street car lines to all
parts of city. Our omnibuses with uni-
formed attendants meet all steamers and
trains. Travellers are urged to make reser-
vations by letter or wireless to be assured
the most satisfactory accommodation. Cable
address, “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals, 16s. a day and up.
Rooms without Meals, Bs. a day and up.
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
Proprietors.
For Solid Comfort while Travelling
in all sorts of weather, the ideal
wrap is a
MOSGIEL
RUG
Simply Perfect in Beauty and
Heat=giving Cosiness.
Soid at all the
Best Shops.
[1
Exclusive Agent
Wanted
m 4
to sell our portrait
enlargements, picture
frames and novelties
in art goods. Excellent
opportunity for any
Merchant or Agent
The sale of this
line of goods is very re-
numerative. You may
charge good prices for our
portrait novelties. No ex-
perience required. We will Bend free of charge, our
book of instructions and general catalog. We furnish
bank references. 20 successful years in the export
business is our best reference.
Consolidated Portrait & Frame Co.
1029—D-10 W. Adams St„ Chicago. 111., U. S. A.
“ON THE HOP.” —A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
Allcocks
Plasters
Eagle Mark.
The World's Greatest
External Remedy.
w
'C'
"Sr-
y
/s
Coughs, Colds, Weak Lungs
Allcock's Plasters act as a preventive
as well as a curative.
Preventcoldsbecomingdeep seated
Rheumatism in Shoulder
Relieved by using Allcock’s Plasters
Athletes use them for
Stiffness or Soreness of muscles.
Allcock's is the original and genuine porous plaster.
It is a standard remedy, sold by chemists in every part
of the civilized world. Apply wherever there is Pain.
When you need a Pill
TAKE A Brandreth's Pill
Purely Vegetable*.
(Est. 1752.)
For Constipation* Biliousness, Headache, Dizziness, Indigestion, Etc,
SOLD BY CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
AULCOCK MANUFACTURING Co., Birkenhead.
Dr Scholl's Foot Specialties
A
■M
Dr Scholls
Bunion Macer
IVfixOj
CC*> Mer*
Dr: Scholl's
Foot - "Eazer
- / *
fatented. self ddjoi ting fatu/vS.
friction of foot facer top p/atei
. a on under spring.'
Instant Relief in all Foot Troubles.
Every one of these appliances Is the result of careful study of foot.anatomy, and is the
most effective remedy ever offered to sufferers.
DR. SCHOLL’S
Bunion Reducer
Gives immediate relief, and fits
closely and snugly, arresting further
growth of the bunion by its reducing
action on the tissues. Can be worn
in finest shoes without notice; does
not shift or bulge. Made of best
Para rubber.
AsL your Boot Dealer about Otis-
DR. SCHOLL’S
Fixo Corn Plaster
Corns, no matter how old, how hard,
or- how painful and troublesome,
yield to the positive treatment of
“FIXO** Corn Plasters. A mechan-
ical, medicinal treatment, easy to
apply, sure to stay, effecting an
absolute cure in 24 hours. Does
not blister or irritate.
Ask your Boot Dealer about this.
DR. SCHOLL’S
Foot-Eazer
For tired and aching feet, or for
people constantly on their feet, it
has no equal. Positively eases the
feet, body and nerves; self-adjusting
and invisible in the boot. Gives
Just the right pressure at the right
spot. No larger shoe required.
Ask your Boot Dealer about this
Stocked by all leading Boot Dealers
If you have any difficulty in procuring these goods, write direct to the Agents.
“ Treatment and Care of the Feet" Booklet sent Free.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
80 Clarence Street, Sydney
Sole Agent* to N.S.W
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.,
110 Edward Street. Brisbane.
Sole Agent*, in Queensland
MICHAELIS, HALLENSTEIN & CO. Pty. Ltd.,
382-4 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
Sole Agents m Victoria
B. ROSENSTAMM,
61-65 King Street, Perth
Sole Agent* in W.A.
W. & G. GENDERS,
Cameron St., Launceston*
57 Liverpool St., Hobart-
Sole Agent* in Ta*m*ni*
MICHAELIS, HALLENSTEIN & FARQUHAR, Dowling Street. Dunedin. N.Z.
Sole Agent* in New Zeal Mid
Last month, on leaving Brisbane. going
north, the Chinese crew of the ship.Aldeu-
ham was mustered as usual by the Customs
iiffirei ; and, although the true
answered the roll call, he ri
of them had aged strangely sj
arrival. Notwithstanding t’
able protests that the cha
Enoggera water and the de
ence of picture shows, the
smelt a
str a n l-1 im e
who, of b
I a n d, c b n n
Pagans haabic
China.
ceedings
two Hop
Common
Ttaer'
quaint
an ene
plan t
put, hi
had i
other
throngs,
present,
said they
they objec
British p
stupids ca
been com
try’s Def
taxes; aM
that wa,
when
parr tr, do a
that they d
principle of
how, the wor
tempt the k
himself, but
other kid to
"Don Q.":
happy famil
certain
A PP eI is. the SQuare peg in
ho
Denhaml having pushed his I.iquor Bill a
second ttme through the Assembly, now finds
himself confronted by the Buug [>ariy in th<
> s o(,t ot>l v Potent in tb*'
by virtue of direct reprp
s« in the fact that two lead
)]£ barrack for Beer (Bung
each tlieit
opinions
mber __
of the
/ thft Highland
t'/ rl l y remarked
$/ travels seen
k nrough then
m, to speak
to barbar-
e Highland
shall pro-
ous Moot
<S\ * to the
■>l 1 ■ai;«-/ai;o
- ' • while
to th*
n’t
onsist
was given
that®waited on
equthat he
bdivfjed estate
vernmenf
* t<%De. ham.
ad time
upland sold
ualW’edva n
d thm
hFnrW.hropi<-
in to believ>
aying W pe.
iCovernmpnt
ham didn’t
the request
liour "land
rt the feel-
supporters.
Story a hour Ibtni in UlUt Hiss MaclfTMTbsn. t.'lTeensTnmTs champion
„ KKW , round
pr the round hole in a square (ace, or
lady tennis plaver. and dmghier of Donald
Mackintosh. M.E.A.. was married in Pitt*
DUPLEX
BRACES
For Men of fiction
They're Great
fit all Stores 2-
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of "Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
Gladstone Copper (Cobar, N.S.W.) is
paying a 6d. dividend ; this co. let a tribute
12 months ago, and to date about £28,000
worth of ore has been sold by the tribute
party, the co. benefiting to the extent of
10 p.c. Instead of putting by a decent
reserve to handle the property at the ter-
mination of the present tribute the co.
apparently believes in having a good time
while it lasts. That has been the curse of
more than one locally-managed mine.
* * * *
The war is touching up the No-Liability
system in Victoria so badly that half the
mining cos. are already shutting up, and
the rest are thinking the matter over. Bal-
larat has inspired certain legal managers to
complain to the stock exchanges that if
they don’t resume trafficking in shares vari-
ous people will have to look for work. The
fact is that no market means no calls, and
likewise it means poor mine developments.
Daylesford has had the time of its life this
way. Every favorable strike that it has
been possible to post up for 12 months has
been made since the war began. The clever
crowd had been preparing to unload on press
puffs over these developments, but as there
are no mining quotations to attract the
public, no one is ready to act as rubbish-tip.
This is the first time that utsiders have had
any luck in connection with Laylesford.
* * * *
The Daylesford (Vic.) district would not
go into mourning if Frenchman’s Reef mine
were to relinquish the struggle, like the
North Frenchman. Two years ago the Vic.
Government gave the N.F. a cheque for
£5OO, as payment for closing down. This
goldless mine was supposed to have cut the
famous Hepburn mineral spring, which had
ceased to flow at the original outlet, and
the idea was that the spring would resume
its ancient courses when the offending mine
got flooded. The shutting-down of the North
Frenchman seemed to be accountable for a
fresh outbreak of Hepburn Spring, but this
also has failed of late. Frenchman’s Reef
mining is under suspicion of causing the
trouble. A most generous gaseousness was
a marked characteristic of the Hep. mineral
water, and the unpromising mine, which
lately added a blower to its outfit, is said to
have been blowing off a lot of gas ever since
the spring went astray.
* * * *
Miscellaneous (W.A.) : Northampton lead
mines have shut down and thrown 200 men
out of work. Marie’s Find, at Yilgarn.
claims to be doing well. In support of
this assertion it says that the reef has been
proved for the entire length of two 24-acre
leases and is payable from end to end.
Adelaide Enterprise, at Kalgoorlie, still has
delusions regarding the value of its show,
the latest being that the reef is certain to
produce a lot of good ore. Light of Asia
has just been credited with £B4O from 100
tons crushed. This show has had a lot of
ups and downs in the last 19 years. It
shaped well to start with, and in 1895 was
sold to a London co. Three years later it
was joined with others and named the Cue
Consolidated. Years later it was aban-
doned and repegged by the late M. Lloyd,
whose trustees sold out to a local syndicate
which has since extracted £B4OO from about
1500 tons. The total production to date
amounts to something over £77,000.
Westralia’s gold production was 44,1140 z.
less for the eight months ended August than
for the same period last year. The shrink-
age is attributed to the stoppage of ore treat-
ment at the Victorious, pending the installa-
tion of a sulphide mill, the shutting down
of the Ivanhoe plant for some weeks, on
account of the February fire, the bailing up
of the Yuanmi by a union which forcibly
objected to contract work, the cessation of
operations at the Great Fingall while the
deep workings were being put into ship-
shape order, and the drop in the Bullfinch
output caused by a big “creep” cutting off
supplies of good ore and compelling the co.
to take out mostly poor stuff. The yield
for the remaining four months of the year
is expected to pick up a bit, as the Ivan-
hoe, Yuanmi and Fingall are again in a
normal condition. The Edna May Central
and Beria Consols (late Lancefield) have
either started or are about to start crush-
ing, and the Chaffers follows suit next
month.
* * * *
Associated (W.A.) treated 2687 tons more
during the year ended March last than in
the preceding 12 months, but the profit
(£23,826) is £16,602 less. This drop is
due to a decrease of 2s. per ton in the value
of the ore handled and an increase of 7d. per
ton in costs. A 6d. dividend was paid in
July last year, and another has been de-
clared, leaving £1678 to be carried forward
after writing off £13.772 for development.
Liquid assets apart from cash in hand
amount to just over £llO,OOO, as compared
with £126.071 a year ago. The broken ore
in the mine is estimated at 33,306 tons,
costing £6629. Reference is made in the
directors’ report to an option held on North
Thompson lease adjoining the llollinger
mine at Porcupine, and to the Iveeley mine
in the same country. Both are said to be
developing well. The whole of'the expendi-
ture incurred on these properties to date
(£19,110) has been carried forward as an
asset; but should the options be thrown up,
the amount, less anything realised from sale
of plant, etc., is to be charged against future
profits.
Bayley’s (W.A.) has been recommended a
further 12 months’ exemption in spite of
strenuous opposition from local prospectors.
Co. applied under a section of the Act which
provides that, if a leaseholder spends £4OOO
for every 24 acres of his property, he shall
be entitled to a year’s respite from labor con-
ditions. Evidence was brought to show that
the co. held 31 acres and had spent £45.000
so the wmrden had no alternative.
* * * *
Mountain Queen (W.A.) has exhausted
its oxidised ore and overburden of iron-
stone formation, and is getting ready to
shut down. The war has settled what
chance there might have been of getting
any money to equip and work the co.’s other
show, the Transvaal, and there seems to be
nothing left but to apply for exemption.


Cooling Breezes
Before the dawn of Q.E. Electric Fans people on warm, sultry
days wished for cooling breezes, and waited. Nowadays the
comfort of a cooling breeze can be obtained by touching a switch.
fepflyjl
■
*
. r-
m m
a .
'
*
' ; WMmmmESm
1 W \
■ _ ;
\ ■ ' '' " ■
•ii
G.E. CO. (U.S.A.) ELECTRIC FANS may be used in any position,
and are stocked for use on Wall, Ceiling or Desk.
Order early, so as to avoid any inconvenience in delay, caused through
large Summer demands for G.E. (U.S.A.) FANS.
Cor. Queen £>Uttle Collins Sts -Melbourne
ZlTClarence. Street - Sydne
PERTH (W.A.) : Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Aust., Ltd. (E.S.C.A.),
Edward Street.
— Agents -
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Dunedin, Auckland, Wellington & Christchurch.
THE “BIG CHIEF”
represents the WORLD’S LATEST and MOST UP-TO-DATE
OIL ENGINE
Made to our own specification from the best possible material, and by
skilled mechanics. The “ Big Chief”
m
Stands Alone and Unchallenged for both Quality and Price
All “Big Chiefs” are hopper cooled, and fitted with high tension Magneto, extended crankshaft and regular pulley.
Kerosene as well as benzine attachment. Obtain our prices— they are a revelation. Easiest possible terms.
Best discount for cash. Make up your mind to-day, and secure the greatest bargain ever offered in Oil Engines.
R. L. SCRUTTON CO. LTD.
161 Clarence “Where the Best Engines are Sold.” „


MARE EVERY SALE COUNT
m
wDonah
yjt
Get all the Profit from Your Business
No shopkeeper'can fail to overlook the profit on even
a single sale.
The National Cash Register will enable you to get
all your profit by stopping losses from mistakes and
carelessness.
It compels the assistant to make correct unchange-
able records of each transaction.
It prevents the failure to charge goods sold on credit.
It enforces accurate records of money received on
account and money paid out.
It keeps you in touch with the details of your business,
and enables you to, manage it to better advantage.
'■'V:
It will increase! your profits.
The National Cash Register Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE— 119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches in all the Principal Cities.
&
'LHMW SK
V.
15
Workmanship !
The concentrated energies of an immense organization, model
factories, well-nigh 2,000 skilled mechanics, are focussed
solely in the production of Triumph Cycles and Motor Cycles.
These immense resources are a positive safeguard against inferiority, and when
coupled with honest material as in the Triumph, are worth more than any
guarantee of the most extravagant description.
VICTORIA: Mill dge Bros.,
264, Post Office Place, Melbourne
N.S.WALES: Bennett&Barkell
Ltd.,130-132, Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
TRIUMPH)
S. AUSTRALIA : J. Hill & Sons, Representatives, 63,
Grenfell St., Adelaide ; Eyes & Crowle, Local Distributors
125, Pirie St., A de'laide. W. AUSTRALIA: Tlie Arm-
strong Cvcle & Motor Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND : The Howard Motor & Cycle Co., Ltd.
376-8, Queen St.,Brisbane. TASMANIA; J. Bilyard.The
Havelock Cycle &MotorWorks,l4l,Elizabeth St.. Hobart.
/
wmmm&
9
◄
sdf
unshrinkable:
UNDERWEAR.
Insist upon having “Jason”
The finest Australasian wool and nothing but wool,
manufactured with that care and sk:!l that .comes of years of
experience, “Jason” is the finest underwear you can have.
Its beautiful silky softness makes it the most comfortable and,
being perfectly fashioned, it fits snugly yet gives absolute
freedom of movement.
And with every "Jason” garment there is this guarantee:
“ANY GARMENT THAT SHRINKS WILL
BE REPLACED FREE OF COST.”
Jason” Underwear .‘is made in all styles and prices for men. ladies and
children. Pure White Wear in light and medium weights. “Jason”
Jerseys for children wear splendidly. If your dealer does not stock ‘Jason”
insist upon his getting it for you.
In case of difficultll writr -
it> Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, England, y
DR. J. COLL.IS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLO BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/6.
sd
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectual! y
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
’he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Made in England.
Acts llho a charm In
DIARR H(EA and simple DYSENTERY.
The Principal, Saron School.
IT’S WAR TIME!
and we must all become
PHYSICALLY Perfect
I OFFEU
£,lOO
in Prize Money
And 50 Gold Medals.
To win these Prizes you require
Absolutely No Previous Experience.
and “In Your Own Home.”
But Remember your inquiry Must be
with us by October 31. Enclose Six Penny
Stamps and obtain Post Free full particulars of
the Great Saxon War Competition,
together with the “Saxon Book” describing
Great Saxon Physical Culture in full.
Write Now to-
THE SAXON SCHOOL
BUREAU No. 21,
ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE.
Yes, Tell Your Friends.
“3-in-One”
Oil
KEEPS EVERYTHING
SPIC AND SPAN !
It prevents rust or tarnish on
metal surfaces indoor's or out.
Polishes finest woodwork. Cleans
glassware. Lubricates perfectly
the most delicate mechanism.
Saves wear and tear at f. lclion-
points.
Adds years of life to Musical
Instruments, Bicycles, Firearms,
Furniture, Typewriters, Saddlery,
Tools and all light Machinery.
“Three-in-One” Oil
is free from grease-, acid or alkali.
It is highly refined.
Invaluable for general use. On
sale everywhere.
Free Sample Bottle and
“Three-in-One” Oil
Booklet on request.
REID & REID,
Australasian Agents,
82 I. HARRIS ST.. WELLINGTON. N.t
Mw ______
We invite you to buy a box of “ De
Reszke” Cigarettes and compare them
with any brand you please. Their quality
will appeal to you.
Deßeszke
7hr 'ffi/fcfcf rafj '
Mother’s 1
Friend- 1
PEDIC POMADE for THE HEAD
Strikes infesting vermin dead. One applica-
tion deStroys vermin, kills nits, heals sores, cures
ringworm, and makes the hair grow thick and
curly. Kills lice on live stock.
Sydney Agents: Talbots, 200 George Street;
and Washington Soul. Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, or posted from J. Brin, Chemist,
East Malvern, Vic. —1/2, 2/3, 3/9, and with Nit
Comb, (id, extra.
fsd
Let the Motor
pump your
Tires with
the Mayo
Pump.
Xo auto owner
will continue using
a ha'ck - breaking
hand pump after
once being shown
this device. With this pump tyres easily cam be
kept up to pressure at all times. Hence full mile-
age service will bo obtained which will result
in a saving, of 2q% in the. tyre expense. 50,000
satisfied users are our best recommendation.
Instantly attached to any engine (European
or American). Remove spark plug and screw
pump in its place. Start the motor and your
tyre is inflated with pure fresh air in from
two to four minutes. Just watch the gauge, it
tells the exact pressure.
Write to-day to us or to our nearest dis-
tributor.
MAYO MANUFACTURING CO.,
69E 18th STREET, CHICAGO, U.S.A.
Stockists: CARRATS LTD., Sydney, N.S.W.
R. B. SPINKS & CO., Auckland, N.Z
ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
"A.G.M.” : How little the city-dweller
really understands what rain or the lack of
it means to us. on the soil. Just now there
is a moderate drought here (Young, N.S.W.).
The crop that is cocky’s all is getting weak
at the knees and,looking blue when it should
be. green, and the farmer talks, dreams and
thinks but of one thing—rain. There was
an unrehearsed .-.touch of pathos at Philip
Lytton’s big canvas theatre, present for Show
week. The villain was just doing his best,
or worst, and making himself unpopular all
round, when suddenly a glorious patter
sounded on the' canvas roof. Instantly a
subdued tumult arose. A great deep-chested
sigh of relief came from every throat, and
for a moment the villain’s voice was drowned
in the vast murmur of a thousand husky
whispers, “Thank God!” The astounded
mummers thought they had brought down
the house, but the applause was not for
them. The pathos of the thing was inten-
sified by the fact that the fervently-thanked
Deity was only having another little joke.
There was a tiny sprinkle of water, and to-
day we are still as dry as a basket of peanut
shells.
“Scroll of Fame”; The most sudden
actress I ever knew was a nice, quiet girl
called .Jane Brown. One week she was
carrying the groceries home from the shop
at the corner. Next week she was telling
us that she was an actress in a drama of the
French Revolution, and inviting us to come
and see her do it at one of the principal
Melbourne theatres. It seemed wildly im-
probable, but, on the appointed night a
crowd of us suburbanites surged up to the
amphitheatre and hung ourselves over the
front rail. I forget who the star was; but
we hadn’t come to see him —we wanted to
gaze on the almost imperceptible Jane
Brown. The first act went by and she didn’t
appear; the second act likewise ; then came
the third —with the guillotine in the fore-
ground and the French mob screaming and
leaping round it. One female screamed
louder and leaped higher than any of her
demented sisters, who seemed to take their
cue from her. She always left the ground
first when a leap was required, and her
scream cleft the night like a steam siren.
We wouldn’t have recognised her if she
hadn’t swept the matted hair from her fore-
head to do a long gloat over the condemned.
Then we saw that it was Jane, the almost
imperceptible. She certainly was immense
in the part; but she has been waiting 15
years now for another revolutionary drama
to come along. She had the bad luck to
specialise in a line of art for which there is
only a limited demand.
“Billy Blue’’: There was a time in its
history when Australia possessed one soli-
tary pianoforte. Surgeon G. B. Worgan,
of H.M.S. Sirius, which convoyed the first
fleet to Sydney Cove, brought it with him.
There being nd room aboard when the crew
of the Sirius, after the wreck, was sent to
England in the Dutch scow Waaksamheyd.
Worgan presented the instrument to Mrs.
Macarthur, the wife of John Macarthur, of
sheep renown. And . the lady banged on it
for ever afterwards.
“Coot” : Evidently the question “At what
ago should I marry” has not yet been
decided, but G. 11. Knibbs’s recent figures
for 1913 throw some light on the views of
Australians on the subject. The youngest
bridegroom was 15 years old. and there were
seven brides only 14 years of age. The old-
est bride was a flirt of 95, who beat the
most ancient bridegroom by seven years.
Some girls acquired the dignity of maternity
at a very early age. Knibbs records three
mothers of 15 years old, 10 of 14, and S 2 of
15. On the other hand, there were 14
mothers of 50 years and over, two of them
being 55 years old (the husband <>f one was
also 55). Two fathers owned up to having
attained 15 years, one to 16. IS to 17. and
352 youths were fathers at 19. Five of the
mothers in this batch were only 15. The
oldest alleged father was 79.
SOME VALUES AND A MORAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All the employees, men and women, on a large
dairy farm at Vermont. New Jersey (U.S.A.), have
received orders to refrain from using harsh language
when in proximity to the cows, it having been dis-
covered that rough speech tends to diminish the milk
supply. —News item.
And how
Should people treat the Cow,
The semi-'sacred Cow?
Approach her with due deference
And make a lowly bow—
That's how
To meet the Cow !
And how
Should people speak the Cow,
The thoughtful, chewsoine Cow ?
Why, murmur an apology—
Don’t make a beastly row!
That's how
To word the Cow!
The Sow
Is quite unlike the Cow,
The sleek and moo-some Cow !
The coarsest curse or expletive
Exigencies allow
May now
Be hurled at any Sow!
The Chow
Counts far loss than the Cow,
The haughty, meaty Cow!
’Tis wholly immaterial
What’s said to any Chow.
I vow
That curs may cry “Bow-wow!”
And Thomas Cats ‘?i! ee-yow !”
At any Chow,
Or Sow.
But not—ah! not the Cow!
The dollar-yielding Cow—-
The deity benevolent
Who doth with wealth endow
The servitors and Worshippers
Who lean a heated brow
Against her flanks,
And render thanks,
And pray “Gor’save the Cow!”
Moral.
The Cow she is the friend of man,
Despite her uncouth ways;
Be civil, and she’ll fill the can;
Thus we see politeness pays !
N.S.W.
CLARENCE O’HAGAN.


KZ
>*• -Vva'jil ■ i.v;:..; 3 4
4 SCOOPING
SIMPLIFIED.
EARTH SCOOPING is EASY
EFFICIENT s ECONOMICAL
An Ear ;h Scoop provides the simplest satisfactory method of making
Channels, Dams, Drains, etc. All that is required for the working
of one is a horse hitched to the runners; the person holding the
handles has only to follow along the excavated track, in an upright
position.
The guarantee of durability in an Earth Scoop lies in the body, which
is pressed cold from a solid sheet of steel. The mouth being speci-
ally sharpened, enables the Scoop to enter the earth readily. Being
the same width from end to end, a uniform cut is assured.
FITTED WITH STEEL RUNNERS AND DETACHABLE HANDLES.
Our new 300-page Catalogue of Tools for the Farm, Home and Workshop
is now ready. Write for it.
554=66 and 582=88 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
&
L.(
12
2
‘lO
5
4
.8
: 10 ».
&
:' ' \
r» -a
If you want a good
“knock-about” watch
get the “Boyproof.”
6/j
Boundary Riders, Horsemen, Teamsters, Schoolboys, Campers—every
man or boy who needs a watch to standy plenty of rough-and-tumble
in all sorts of conditions —should invest in the “BOYPROOF.” We
call it “Boyproof” because the double-back case, stem wind and set
make it practically foolproof. It is a watch that will give
good, honest service for many a year
For Sterling Service
in the City—or in the Country, where absolute accuracy and dependa-
bility are essential, we recommend our Special Gent.’s Gold-filled
Hunting Keyless Lever Watch, in a plain Case, i-plate, and fully-
jewelled movement. This excellent Watch carries our guarantee
for 10 years—that is a good sign as to our own opinion of its O
service i tXfW
POSTAGE PAID ON EITHER WATCH TO ANY ADDRESS.
Better write to-night for a copy of our new Catalogue. You will
need it shortly for selecting Christmas Presents. It’s FREE for
the asking. Ask.
Stewart Dawson’s,
The Strand Corner,
412- GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
I
5 V
5 t
* " The m
I.H.C.
aso-Kero
Fngin
/
lii
m
f
;i
sdf
sdf
sd
The
Right
Hand
of the
Mr. Farmer i
Have You Ever Thought of
an Engine for your Farm ?
Ever thought of the freedom from hard grinding toil
its possession would give you ?
Ever thought of the many uses to which you could
put the engine ?
. A> , ~*? • -
Ever thought of the actual money-saving engine work
means over the old manual way ?
Ever thought of the time an engine would give you for
the better management, and therefore the more profit-
able working of your farm ?
Well over 5,000 of your fellow Australian Farmers
have thought deeply on these subjects and the result
is they now own “I.H.C/’ Engines—and on request we
will send you a little book crowded with letters from
these very farmers which will show you what they
NOW THINK after using the engines for years, and
why they persist in calling the “1.H.C.” Engine The
right hand of the Farmer.’’
All “1.H.C.” engines are fitted with patent Mixers—
found only on the “I.H.C.”—which, in place of gasolene
and other costly fuels, enables cheap kerosereto be
satisfactorily used, thus cutting the cost of running
in half.
This great reduction in fuel cost—now made possible-
should help you to think to some purpose.
When you get your “ LH.C.” you’ll have only one
regret—that you didn’t get it sooner. >
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO. OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
200 Roma St., Briabane. 87 Broadway, Sydney. MS-887 Beurke St., Melbourne. 18-20 North Terraoe, Adelaide. 861-888 Murray Street. Perth. _ . 78 York Street, Launoeaton.


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MKT.,BOURNE and ADELAIDE.
•Twin Screw. All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON ..' .. .. £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19b. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St. .
Melbeurne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills k Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA. ENGLAN D.
ORMONDE . .Geared Turbine 15,000 Regd. Tons.
ORAMA ..Triple-Screw.. 13,000
ORVIETO . .Twin-Screw . . 12,130
OSTERLEY 12,129
OTRANTO „ „ • . 12,124
OTWAY .. 12,077
ORSOVA .. 12,036
ORONTES 9,023
OMRAII .. 8,282
Fitted with AVireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Pdack, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissieners— .
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD,
11. D. HALL.
Security and Satisfactory
Interest
are the leading features of this Institution.
Deposits received from 1/- upwards.
Interest paid at 3J% on first £2OO, and 3%
on excess to £5OO.
The Bank has 130 Branches and over 500
Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices.
DEPOSITS Guaranteed by the Government.
By order of the Commissioners, , -
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE.
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,800.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £385,000
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
Hon. ROBERT PIIILP, M.L.A.; lion. A. J.
TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. ..£2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
P.AID-UP (SOth June, 1914).. ..£1,195,591
RESERVE FUND £45,000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon,
Esq.; Arthur S. Barton, Esq. ; Frank N.
Yarwood, Esq.; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq,
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers' to the Government of Queensland,, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. . . . . 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . • • 166,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Burning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray,
M.L.C.; James Love, Esq.
Genera i, Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
Life
The Colonial
1 ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
- ■, ' FOR
if/:_ Mutual Ijife Assurance, Endowments and
' Vi- Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
' > Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
' ‘ Head Office:
419 ft 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000. _
Amounts paid to Policvholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, .Indefeas-
>b premitVms moderate and without restrictitm .as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office“for New South Males:
*8 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: .
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.®., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P. ,
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretan
Shipping.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
R.M.S. riARAMA (Twin-screw)
6500 Tons Gross. 10,500 Tons Displacement.
SAILS FROM SYDNEY, OCTOBER 10.
The . Largest and Finest Steamer trading between
Australia, and San Francisco.
REGULAR SAILINGS EVERY 28 DAYS.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 2 days at Wellington end 24 hours
at Papeete—“ The Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
T H f. North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS ; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combinatioh Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
TN€ AB€RP€€N UN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth & London.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
*Triple-Sere\v Turbine.
Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine Signalling Gear.
Saloon • FARES— Third-class.
London, from £45. £l6 to £2O.
Capetown and Durban, from £3O. £l3/13 to £l7/17/-
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line,
£llO (First-class both ways) ; £B2 (Second-class
Orient).
Saloon Return and stop-over tickets interchange-
able with Holt’s Blue Funnel Line. Third-class
Return and s' ap over tickets interchangeable with
P. & O. Service.
ROUND-THE-WORLD TICKETS from £122/10/-.
SALOON CABINS' on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, etc., on application.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting-) :
SYDNEY >
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
‘CAIRNS
(‘Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).,
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Sept. 26.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Sept. 30.
Leaves Sydney Oct. 3.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons!.
Leaves Melbourne October 7.
Leaves Sydney October 10.
For
MELBOUENE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports).
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Sept. "26.
CANBERRA (8000 T6n»).
Leaves Sydney October 3,
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
WKKj
■Mi,
m
To PAPUA and PACIFIC ISLES.
To Papua via Brisbane and Cairns.
To Solomon Islands via Brisbane.
To the New Hebrides via Lord Howe and
Norfolk Islands.
SEND FOR PARTICULARS OF FARES AND SAILINGS TO
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS:
£3,500,000
£2,450,000
£3,500,000
£9,450,000
The Hon. Sir Charles Iv. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Bichard Binnie, Esq. _
The Hon. James T. Walker
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, M.D,
AUDITORS: Alfred George Milson, Esq.; William Harrington Rainier, Esq.
Head Office— George St., Bydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St., E C.
340 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
b Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECI. Foreign Bills
negotiated and coßected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD ’ J, RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
ot Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
..£2,000,000 0 0
. . 1,730,000 0 0
. . 2,000,000 0 0
£5,730,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Grough J- Coiien, Esq Chairman.
Hon H E. Rater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman,
lion' H Moses, M.L.C. A. J. ONslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Siiei.i.ey, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., and W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
• v 11. 11. Massie.
Head Office: Georgfe Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton ; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in'Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
— 7
Bank of |) eu > Z ealan(| .
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
, GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £l, 992’?aa
Preference Shares . . • • • • 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up .. .. . . •• . • 500,000
Uncalled Capital .. • • • • 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,11/
BRANTS DRAFTS w-
ain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS fixed periods, and
ransacts all other usual Banking business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£544,654 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 156,136 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 78,500 0 0
£779,291 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 1 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
~’I6~BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Brice 6d.
UNDER NEUTRAL FLAG
TO
AMERICA and ENGLAND.
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers, 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
SONOMA .. .. | Sept. 26 | Nov. 21 | Jan. 16 I Mar. 13
VENTURA .. j Oct. 24 j Dec. 19 j Feb. 13 j April 10
The San Francisco Panama Exposition is open
February-December, 1915. Tickets issued to London
via San Francisco and back by any Suez Line.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
,r *lgl
ASTHMA
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
Leaconsfield testified to the benefits
he received from Himrod's
Asthma Powder, and every
post brings similar letters
to-day.
»nm
SUB
Famed for 40 Years.
Best remedy for Asthma,
Hay Fever, Rose Cold, or
ord nary Cough.
Scut m Tint by ail Chttnisu and Stares
throughout Australasia.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS' HALL, LONDON, E.C. i ,
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W
Branches in all pans of the world.
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE >
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle |
to all North-Western Ports. J
T.S.S. WARILDA (8000
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
Sect. 26 and Oct, 24.
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steeraee Passengers.)
BRISBANE
MACK AY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
ALLINGA, Sept. 26.
.INNAMINCKA, Oct. 3.
MAR LOO,-'-Oct. 10.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be-
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. 8. YU ILL & qp., LTD.,
Agents, 6 .BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
OPERATING THE LARGEST AND FINEST VESSELS
ACROSS TIIE PACIFIC FROM AUSTRALIA.
SAILINGS :
*Ti'iple-Screw Steamer, fitted with Cabins de luxe en
suite, Bedstead Rooms, Nursery, Laundry, Electric
Lift.
First Saloon passengers wishing to break journey at
New Zealand may proceed by Intercolonial steamer
from Sydney without extra charge.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SNIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.,
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger .Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Liimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
"Riverina,” “Victoria,”
All of - Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
* Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
When something is wanted
to put on a burn or scald,
to heal a cut, scrat ch,
or skin sore, apply
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment
It soon relieves the soreness and pro-
motes a qui k cure, while for a skin
wound especially its antiseptic virtue is
important. On other occasions also
it is useful—for insect bites or stings,
for eczema, ringworm, and skin ail-
ments generally—whenever a healing
antiseptic ointment is needed.
Local Stores and Chemists sell it.
Made by F. C.CALVERT & Co., Manchester, En&
:: THE NEW ::
AUSTRALIAN NIB
GOLDEN WATTLE
DOES NOT BREAK OR CORRODE, AND
WRITES WITHOUT HARSHNESS AND
SCRATCHING. IT HELPS TO FORM
THE LETTERS NEATLY, SO AS TO GIVE
CHARACTER TO THE WRITING. LADIES
LIKE IT FOR ITS SILKEN SMOOTHNESS.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
321 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE :


ďs
WHY NOT ABBEY
SHOES?
The wearing qualities of Abbey
Shoes are equally as satisfactory
as their style and comfort.
The illustration shows a very
choice Patent Button Boot, dull
calf legs Price 27/6
In high-grade Glace Kid.. 257-
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for our Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 Georg'e Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
4T/ S
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Arrllev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia-
Commonwealth
+ V
JM ot Australia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
Open
■for all
General Banking Business
in the
principal
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and collected.
Letters of credit issued to any partof the world. Bills negotiated or forwarded for collection. Banking and
Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth, United Kingdom and abroad.
Current accounts opened, interest paid on fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at
Deposits
from
1/- *° £3OO 2000
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at
per annum
3% •
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL Deputy Governor. DENISON MILLER. Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, tho
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
X. C. TKOEDSON, Director.
Hrancli Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney. N.S.W. A. MISSXON, Local Director.
f
SEE THAT YOUR PURCHASE
BEARS THE GENUINE MARK
WatermansfldeanTountain Pen
ywrrrw
Nibs to
Suit Every
Hand.
sdf
This Trade Mark stands the world over as
a guarantee of satisfying pen service and life-
long writingcontentment. Waterman’s Ideal is always
in order, always ready to write, always trustworthy.
In four types—Regular, Safety, Self-Filling and Pump-Filling.
Of Stationers and. Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd., LONDON, England.
(Australia! 350, George St., Sydney.) Write for hookUt.
THE RAZOR YOU’LL APPRECIATE.
Csiv*
There can be no doubt about the matter once you’ve tried the
“PLUM” RAZOR.
It is a real tip-top shaver, and has a perfectly-tempered blade of
silver steel, with a keen edge that makes shaving a pleasure. We are
practical tradesmen and know the edge required to give the best results.
ORDER A “PLUM” TO-DAY—IO/6 post free.
We guarantee to keep it in perfect order for two years, free of
charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a handsome present.
All the Above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price hist.
CRAIG & AITK.EN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
Hotels. -&■».
n
m
'EORGE HOTEL*
St. Hilda., Melbourne
Largest Hotel Accomir.odation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From IG/- per day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel ’is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modem, most comfortable, and best
anointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HAUL AND SUPPER
ROOM,
11 AND®OM E Dlt A WIN G - ROOM.
COST CORNER ami LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD 'WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running 'day and night.
NIGHT STAFF 'regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to 'ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in -ail rooms.
X URE SMITH, Manager,
'Gusltlereagh Street, Sydney.
Diamond Point
Reproducers for the
Edison Phonograph
The tone quality of the phonograph
depends very much on the Reproducer.
The Diamond Point Reproducer is for
any Edison Phonograph except the Gem,
and makes the New Blue Amberol Records
sound clearer, sweeter and fuller.
The introduction of the unbreakable Blue
Amberol Records has made possible the
use of a genuine diamond in place of the
old sapphire point. It is permanent, of
course, and indestructible.
Being round and highly polished it will
neither wear itself nor the Blue Amberol
Record. When you use this Diamond
Point Reproducer you will be convinced
that the Edison has no equal among
sound-reproducing instruments. You can-
not use it on wax records—only the Blue
Amberols. But you can retain the sap-
phire Point Reproducer for whatever wax
records you may have.
Call on your nearest Edison dealer, or
write direct to us for particulars.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD ,
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney
rilllE Best Stories written by Australian
_l_ Writers appear in The Lone llanb
Magazine. Price. Gd. monthly.
HAES & ECCERS LIMITED,
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
Australian Representatives for
M. B. WILD & COMPANY.
11/usti ation of 150-H.P. Double Drum
Haulage Gear fitted with
SPECIALISTS
in the Manufacture of
Hauling & Winding Machinery
of Every Description.
MACHINE-CUT HELICAL GEARS.
If you are interested in Winding and Hauling Propositions our expert is at your service free of cost
to you, and we guarantee he will suggest a scheme that will be entirely satisfactory in every way.
Write for Catalogues to
& EGGERS LIMITED,
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.


m
1
—lnvestigate the
Claims of the
UNTEARABLE
“YARRAMAN ”
RIDING PANTS
151-
TAILORED TO ORDER.
You know the kind of wear that Riding Trousers
have to render, to he any .goad. “YARRAMAN”
is all that good riding twist should be. It is
cheaper than some and better than most.
WILL YOU SEND FOR FREE SAMPLES?
“YARRAMAN” will serve you well. As to the
making—well, they are tailored by Pike Brothers
Limited.
LIMITED BRISBANE
A Hot Weather Trouble Avoided.
TRUMILK (SKIM)
POWDER.
Place Powder on top cold water and beat with Egg Whisk for a minute. Result —
beautiful milk free from germs, suitable for all purposes.
NO MILK GOING SOUR. NO ICE NEEDED.
Ask your grocer for a small tin.
Queensland Agents: WEBSTER & CO. LTD., Mary Street, Brisbane.
New South Wales Agents: FOGGITT JONES & CO. LTD., Sussex Street, Sydney.
IN BANANA LAND
Queensland Public Health Commissioner
draws attention to the State’s increased
birth-rate for the past year, and also to its
exceedingly low death-rate —one of the lowest
in the world. Yes —but see how fatal the
climate is to the fairly numerous Banana-
landerS who get beyond their 80th year.
The learned Brisbane dailies allude to the
skirmishing about Simpsonshafen and Her-
bertshbhe as' “Fighting in New Guinea.” If
common Labor organs had been guilty of
such, blundering it might have been under-
standable, but to think that cultured, high-
toned Liberal journals should err so egregi-
ously is shocking:
THE REASON OF IT.
It is rumored that the German supply system has broken down. Some of the troops are said to be
living on horse flesh. — Cable.
COLONEL : “ What is the regiment subsisting on at present, Sergeant?”
SERGEANT : “Some racehorses commandeered from a Belgian stable , Herr Colonel.
COLONEL: “Ach, that accounts for the fine run our men put up before breakfast
Sundry Brisbane clergymen journeyed to
the Enoggera camp, recently, and presented
the soldiers with a New Testament apiece.
But the New Testament is a book of peace —
hence hardly suite.ble for warriors. Why
rot the Old Testament, with its tales of loot
and spoil, of “smiting hip and thigh,” of put-
ting the Philistines to the sword, etc., etc..
Jehovah was a Man of War —but the New
Testament Deity was pre-eminently an Arbi-
tration Court advocate.
“Rangan” : Rockhampton and Toowoomba,
Bananalarid’s biggest towns bar the capital,
are both hard up against the water-supply
question. Rockhampton at present draws its
supplies from some stagnant mudholes at the
back of the town, and in dry weather the
supply will hardly pass through the pipes.
The nearest, stretch of fresh water in the
river is at Yaamba, 40 miles away. kor
some years the city has been trying to rake
up sufficient courage to face the £l-0,000
expenditure required for the Yaamba scheme.
Another spell of dry weather was the final
propelling force, and last week a deputation
faced the Treasurer. Barnes, though very
sympathetic—he had stayed in Rockhampton
one dry summer—and though the deputation
pushed the unemployed question, held out
little hope. What with the closing of- Uncle
Loandon’s office and the fear that Banana-
land’s arrangements for meeting loans that
mature next yehr will have to go overboard,
Rockhampton may have to continue washing
itself with evil-smelling liquid for some time
yet. Toowoomba is better off. The only
thing against its present supply is inade-
quacy. The town, being perched 2000 ft.
above sea-level, an adequate supply is'.hard
to get at. A scheme is afoot to bring water
from Spring Bluff; cost £122.000. Before
the year is out it is proposed to trot the
matter along to Treasurer Barnes. By that
time, what with lending and loans and
maturing loans. Barnes will require a little
cold storage. Come to think of it, Banana-
land could well- afford to scrap most of its
towns and stah-t them over again, some on
decent harbors and all near good water
supplies.
To William.
(In forecast.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I hear a murmur rolling down from Berlin
on the Spree,
The Kaiser has been leathered well for all
his lunacy;
The French have got his proud Lorraine,
the Russians seek his scalp,
He’s just a common by-word now from
Potsdam to the Alp.
His Austrian friend is on the grid—the Slav
has done him brown —
And Czech and Serb in stately Wien and
Pesfh have settled down.
His people call him Dummkopf and the
vulgar mutter “Schwein!”
And worst of all that could befall —the
Cossack’s on the Rhine!
That head was badly swollen —but the
swelling’s coming down —-
And full a million Deutscher homes have
paid for his renown.
The German widow’s weeping and the Ger-
man orphan’s cry
Are loud beneath the winter wind cf yonder
Prussian sky.
Old Krupps’ is still at Essen where there
once was such a clang,
And ne’er a hammer in the town gives out
a joyous bang.
You see Germania had to bleed to vouch
for Wilhelm’s spine
And now she bleeds afresh to see —the
Cossack on the Rhine!
It was, indeed, a bitter pill to run away
from Brussels
The lordly prey of proud foray and sundry
gory tussles;
’Twas bitt’rer still to have to own —the
Mighty Plan miscarries—
And. double-quick to cut your stick away
from splendid Paris ;
To see that lordly navy bottled up in bay
and bight
Was just enough to drive a man to cut his
throat for spite,
But ne’er a draught the Kaiser quaffed had
such a taste of brine
As that he tried when people cried: “The
Cossack’s on the Rhine.”
If only Bismarck’s ghost could walk and
notice how you’ve scored,
How would he smile to think you “dropped
the Pilot overboard.”
If Moltke, he whose subtle brain old battles
helped to win you,
Could come to earth —how would he gasp
to find the world agin you.
If mighty warrior Frederick could leave the
Realm immortal,
What would he say to see to-day Red Ruin
at the portal;
To find his Prussia riven like a lightning-
smitten pine
And foreign legions near Berlin —and Cos-
sacks on the Rhine?
To think that hairy Muscovites, with names
like Hschikoff,
Should make that sacred Deutcher stream a
Russian drinking trough ;
’Twas bad enough to have to flee when
Gallia drew the gun,
But Crapaud had a lease of fame for ancient
battles done.
The Briton’s name we hated, too —but Bull
is not a savage,
With nothing in his noddle but the lust of
blood and ravage;
To think that lusty Dnieper bands set foot
in every shrine,
And give the clearest witness that the Cos-
sack’s on the Rhine.
Send home your Prussian Junkers, proud, to
soak their heads in water,
And curse the crazy lust for blood that
drove a land to slaughter.
Your battle steeds may take their ease in
meadow-grass and clover,
And Krupps can melt the cannon down they
cast to batter Dover.
Your Teutons stout, who, half in rout, with-
drew to save Vienna,
Will find that Hate’s the Devil’s Gate, and
War is pure Gehenna.
And over all, in high Berlin, they hang the
sable sign,
And, worst of all, you hear the call: “The
Cossack’s on the Rhine.”
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, September 19, 1914.
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
The only event of the week of any national
importance in the North was the march this
afternoon of the Queensland unit of Aus-
tralia’s Expeditionary Force. The crowd
which assembled to yell “Good luck” is sup-
posed to be the largest ever seen in Bris-
bane. Outside the Town Hall a platform
was built, and here the Lieutenant-Excel-
lency, the Mayor, Colonel Lee. and a bunch
of military men received the salute.
The ranks, in spite of their 10-mile tramp
under a hot sun. looked very fit. They
marched like veterans with corns on their
experiences, but the brown, upturned faces
were mostly those of men from 20 to 24
years of age.
The Light Horsemen are splendidly
mounted, but most of the horses have not
previously been ridden. Some excitement
was caused by a minor stampede amongst
them just in front of the saluting point, but
the riders managed the gee-gees _as horsey
Australians do, and what looked likely to be
a nasty mix-up was averted. One trooper
was poured out of the saddle, but he was
promptly and expeditiously up and on his
animal of burden again. Altogether, Tommy
Bananaland is a fine-looking lad, and ought
to do his State proud.
I hear that one of the Colne maidens —
they own stations all over this fair land
is engaged to Roy Chisholm. Roy is a son
of Harry Chisholm, a N.S.W. Jockey Club
committeeman. The young man’s sister,
Sheila, is supposed to be one of Sydney’s
prettiest girls.
The Munro-Ferguson will arrive in this
community of souls and cabbages to-morrow
night, and will get a shake-down with the
Arthur Morgans. On Monday he is to in-
spect the men gathering for Berlin at the
Concentration Camp, and on Tuesday he will
roll up his swag and head for the homestead
at Melbourne.
Frantic letters have been received from
Brisbane people who were lately travelling
in Europe. Their sufferings were frightful.
Some had to carry their own suit-cases.
Others were forced to travel by crowded
trains and boats, and sit in close proximity
to common-looking foreigners who couldn’t
speak a word, not a solitary word, of the
Australian language. “Cooee” quite baffled
these illiterates, and “Gibbit tikapence”
broke off all diplomatic relations. I tell
you what, Thargomindah, one can’t realise
the full horror of war until one has had to
do without lunch, and travel, unpowdered
as regards the nose, in a packed excursion
train with jabbering barbarians from the
backblocks of Swabia and Burgundy, and
with Easterlings, and sledded Polacks, and
folk from the republic of Novgorod.
The brdnze medal for pianoforte at the
Royal Aca.demy of Music, London, has been
handed over to Josephine Lewis, daughter
of sub-editor Lewis, of the Brisbane Tele-
gkapii. The bronze medal is the highest
award at the end of a year for a principal
study. Miss Lewis is a pupil of Oscar
Beringer. Two other young people who did
well were Mildred Mackay and Marie
Narelle’s daughter Kathleen.
The Thorpe-Pike wedding on Wednesday
■was artistically illustrated. The bride, who
is one of the best-liked girls in the younger
set, wore white crepe de chine, with a train
of pink ninon. Iler bridesmaids, Jessie
Coote, of Sydney, and May Pike (two
cousins), wore white crepe de chine and
pretty ' pink caps. Two other Thorpes
assisted the mere bridegroom. Why is it,
my dear, that a bridegroom is _ always con-
sidered necessary at these functions?
A patriotic spinster lady approached the
leader of the German band the other day,
and offered that disgruntled Teuton 3d. to
play Rule Britannia. Wailing sounds were
arising from the instruments even as she
spoke, and she got a shock when the Teuton
grasped the 3d. and replied briefly, ‘"Dot is
id !” If it wasn’t, it couldn’t have been less
depressing.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“ J.F.” : The Courier reprint, referred to
(B. 10/9/T4) as recalling the little known
fact that 66 years ago Dr. Lang proposed
to call the Northern State “Cooksland” is a
bit astray. Lang’s book thus describes his
proposed colony: “The Northern or Moreton
Bay district, which we shall henceforth
designate Cooksland, extends from the 30th
parallel of south latitude to the Tropic of
Capricorn, or to whatever point within the
Southern Tropic may be found eventually the
most suitable for the common boundary of
two conterminous colonies.” He gave his
new colony a mere 500 miles coastline. The
population of Cooksland is given as 3750
people. Incidentally, the author waxed
wrathful because South Australia was so
christened in preference to his own sugges-
tion of Williamsland, after the reigning mon-
arch, Wm. IY. The ancient book is
well worth perusal, especially by those who
are thinking of fleeing from the country with
their capital. It is chockfull of solid, sub-
stantial optimism. By-thc-bye, the name of
the boat which was to carry the Cooksland
settlers was the Fortitude, a name subse-
quently handed on to the valley (now a
suburb of Brisbane) where most of the immi-
grants pitched camp.
“Vic.,” in accents broken with emotion: —
Nothing so dramatic has been staged in Australia
before as the recent Mass at the Melbourne Greek
Church in thanksgiving for the Russian occupation of
Galicia. Thronged congregation, electric and mag-
netic with intense excitement. Sumptuous cere-
monial, similar to the Roman. Flags of Greece,
Russia, Britain, France and Australia copiously wreathed
about. Huge brass candelabra at the altar and finely-
intoned service. The Archimandrite in glittering
golden robes. Incense waved all over the shop.
After kneeling before a picture of the Virgin the
Archimandrite voiced a very loud and powerfully-
THE SUPERFLUOUS COMEDIAN.
THE COMEDIAN: “Great grizzly bears! Pretty
slow that , I guess.”
[DONE by FRANK JESSUP, 5 Cary-street, Leich-
hardt, Sydney.]
worded prayer and thanksgiving, which struck home.
Then he led off with a terrific shout of “Zito!”
the Russian “hurrah.” It was repeated by the con-
gregation. Certainly if all the church services were
like this there would he no vacant timber-yard of
pews. Lastly' the Archimandrite bestowed a frantic
embrace on the Russian Consul. It was more thrill-
ing. than any imported melodrama and infinitely
better produced. Alas, that it should have been for
one morning only.


8888
mm
Wm
m
m
m
H
S 3
m
&
&
v> N
&
&
mm
&
*2
1
I
*f\
i<s
I
1
I
#
n
>:%*/
i
i
O
H
%
s
PP
w
i
Y
(S t
f,
X
K
ami
sd
&
Breathe!
Shortness of breath is not always heart trouble. In nine cases
out of ten it’s the stomach, and the only safe , and certain medicine
for it is that curative remedy for all digestive disorders—
Chamberlain's Tablets for the stomach and liver.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are a pleasant tonic laxative and a
perfect remedy for shortness of breath, indigestion, biliousness,
heartburn, palpitation, and liver and bowel troubles. They are
specially good for women and children.
You may have tried this, that, or the other, but for permanent
relief and pleasurable action you will never find anything to equal
Chamberlains Tablets
jfor The Stomach Liver.
nemo;
H
:
w
m
m
m
/.
M
IS
:
M
r KX,J9
Suffer Pain no Longer!
'_ ' c
. •'V
In KEPHALDOL there is a sure, safe and prompt remedy to hand
for HEADACHES, NEURALGIA, RHEUMATISM, LUM-
BAGO, NEURITIS, SCIATICA, NERVE PAINS and
PAINFUL MENSTRUATION.
KEPHALDOL has received the highest commendation from the
medical profession because of its direct strengthening action upon 1
the nerves without injury to the heart, and its lasting, regulative
and curative effect upon the whole system. Doctors prescribe
Kephaldol and testify to its wonderful results. If you suffer any
kind of nerve pain, take this valuable natural remedy in preference
to ordinary tonics, and, above all, in preference to dangerous drugs.
It costs little to try this new nerve remedy. It cures quickly !
REPHALDOL is Guaranteed under the Pure Food Laws of N.S.W. 1908.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers in Tubes, small size
lj6, large size 3/6. The large size contains three times the
quantity of the smaller.
If you have any difficulty in obtaining a supply locally send a postal note or
stamps to the value of tube desired, and it will be sent you by return post.
REPHALDOL CO.
30 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
(8000|)
THOUSANDS TESTIFY.
“Kia Ora,”
Willow Tree.
Messrs. Kephaldol Co.
Dear Sirs, —I think it only my duty to write
and let you know the wonderful effect and
change your tablets have worked on me. I
have never had a headache since I took the
first lot. and I must recommend them as toeing
thorough for this trouble. I will take pleasure
in advising my friends who suffer from head-
aches and other painful ailments to send for
Kephaldol.
Wishing you every success, I remain,
Yours faithfully,
ELSIE STAIRS.
BRITISH DOCTORS SAY:
“From the results experienced by Kephaldol
in a case of Sciatica and one of Lumbago
(probably rheumatic) I think it has all the
properties you claim for it.”
—Dr. R. Fegan, Maida Vale, W.
“In a case of Neuritis (probably alcoholic)
I have found Kephaldol gave prompt relief
from severe pains which had previously pre-
vented the patient from sleeping.”
—Dr. O. Morris, Birkenhead.
Kurri Kurri, 10/3/’l4.
Kephaldol Co.
Dear Sirs, —Will you please send me at your
earliest convenience one. bottle of Kephaldol—
-1/6 size. I have tried your Kephaldol with
good results.
I have been in the State almost two years,
and suffered dreadfully at times with head-
aches, etc., with three days in bed, and I am
pleased to say tbst I have escaped it for the
first time after taking Kephaldol. I am very
grateful to you, and shall never be without it.
I have recommended it to several of my
friends.
Yours truly,
MRS. J. K. WARDAUGH.


fds
TOOTH-PASTE
If our teeth could talk—
they would say something
like this :
“Yes, we are thankful for
our friends—the millions
of Tooth Brushes. They
do splendid work as far as
they go.
“ We are grateful for thehund-
dreds of dentrifices. They
in turn do a splendid work —
so far as they go. But both
together fall far short of pro-
tecting our enamel —our only
weapon of tooth protection.
“Is there no escape from these
‘ MOUTH ACIDS ’ these ever-
present mouth fluids which unseen,
unbidden, are working day and night
to break down our armour plate—and
then make the soft inside tooth struc-
ture easy prey to decay-germs ?”
We answer :
“ There IS escape from * Acid Mouth.’
Pebeco Tooth Paste is the one dentri-
fice to-day which prevents ‘ Acid
Mouth,’ the direct cause of 95 °/ 0 of
all tooth-decay.”
Send 3d. stamps for sample tube
and interesting test of Acid
Mouth.
Of all Chemists.
G. ARNOLD, 6 O’Connell Street,
Sydney (Wholesale only).
f
the. great remedy.
w GOUT w
(SL RHEUMATIC PILES.
The severe pain of Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Neuralgia can be relieved by
BLAIR’S PILLS, the Medicine that lias
stood the test of Time. Purely vegetable.
Sure and Safe. Sold by all Drug Stores
and 229 Strand, London, England, in Boxes
at Is. and 2s. Gd.
Wholesale Agents: Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
P. H. Faulding and Co.. Sydney, and others.
dsf
“TOUCHES THE SPOT”
The Pioneer ofSkin Complaints
No household should be without it.
Fas' ECZEMA, PILES.
SCALDS, BURNS, CUTS,
BRUISES, SORES, and all
Skin Complaints.
30 YEARS AGO
H. M. STANLEY (the great Explorer)
said: —
“ I found ‘ Ho'nocea ’ to be the most sooth-
“ ing and efficacious unguent that I could
“ possibly have had in my travels."
And to-day thousands of Doctors,
Nurses, Fathers, Mothers, Sons
and Daughters say the same.
READ THIS TESTIMONIAL.
“ As a pharmacist of 50 years' standing, 1
“ state that I consider your 1 Homocea’ the
“ finest preparation known for the purposes
“you recommend. No prescription I have
“ hitherto dispensed has been so quick in its
“ action on the complaint for which it was
“ prescribed.
“T. G. Forshaw, m.p.s.
“ For moxe than 25 years Disp nser to the ,
“ Bradford Infirmary."
For Free Sample enclose Two Penny
Stamps.
LYALL WILLIS & CO..
Sole Wholesale Agents,
127, York Street, Sydney, Australia.
Send to-day
26
SHARPS
AMIGO
f°r PILES
WHY SUFFER?
GET RELIEF.
“SHARPS AMIGO”
FOR PILES.
\n unfailing remedy
for Itchinfj, Protrud-
ing or Bleeding
PILES.
IT CURES GIVES
EASE AT ONCE.
2/6 a Jar from
J. H. LITHGOW,
Chemist,
136 Charles Street,
LAUNCESTON.
“ON THE HOP.” —A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
: “Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
Austraiian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined). Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or new
Zealand. SWAT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borroweis the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Dirkctors The lion. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; The Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; The
Hon James Burns, M.L.C.; The Hon. 11. J. Black.M.L.C. ; The Hon. F E Winchombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
Knox Esa. K.C. ; Sir Alex. MacCormick. M.D. General Manager and Actuary: Richard feece, L.1.A.,
F.F.A., F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. 11. W. APPERLY. Secretary.
ANEMIA
and Weakness
in Men, Women, and Children
Dr. ANDREW WILSON writes :
“It can be definitely stated
“that Iron ‘Jelloids’ constitute
“ the most effective and desirable
“ treatment for Anaemia or Poor-
ness of Blood. The sufferer is able
“to take Iron ‘Jelloids’ without danger,
“ even with pleasure, and with the sure
“knowledge that benefit will accrue.”
and re “MEN AND TONICS.”
“ There is a curious notion entertained by
“ the General Public that Iron Medicaments
“ are necessary for women only, and not for
“ Men. This is an erroneous idea. Now I
“ have found the form of Iron ‘ Jelloids ’ put
“up with Quinine (called Iron ‘Jelloids’
“No. 2a) to be an excellent tonic for men,
“ and may be specially recommended.”
Breathing, hurried and gasping, on the slightest exertion, pale cheeks
lacking the ruddy glow of health, bloodless lips, a general feeling of weari-
ness—accompanied maybe by pain after food, indigestion—constipation,
listlessness, inability of application to any pursuit or even train of thought
depression of spirits, and irritability of temper. Such symptoms indicate
Anqgmia, and should, on no account, be neglected.
w::
fir*
nm
i .
:
will remove the causes and symptoms of Anaemia. Iron is
what your system requires. By taking it in the form of Iron
‘Jelloids’ the not uncommon disadvantages of other Iron
tonics are avoided. No ill-effects are set up. No constipation.
No “rust” in the stomach. No danger of non-absorption.
No fear of injury to the teeth. If you would have radiant
health, an elastic step and well-braced nerves, you must
have healthy blood. To improve and strengthen the blood
take Iron ‘Jelloids,’ commended by Medical Men, and
favourably reviewed by the Medical Press. As a general
tonic Iron ‘ Jelloids ’ are excellent. They are pleasant and
easy to take.
A Reliable Tonic
Mrs Cotton. 56. Whinbush Road. Hitchin. writes:-" l have received
great benefit from Iron ‘Jelloids.’ I Lave been a great sufferer from Anaemia
for a number of years, and have spent pounds in medicines. I have on >
had one box of vour ‘Jelloids,’ and J lind a wonderful implement in
myself. 1 shall recommend ‘Jelloids’ wherever I can.
A Fortnight s Trial (price 1/6) will
convince you.
IRON JELLOIDS ARE SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALIA.
No. i for Children ; No. 2 for Adults, Men and Women;
No. 2 a (containing Quinine) Special Tonic for Men.
Wholesale: DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES LTD., 82, Pitt Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Manufactured only by
The 4 Jelloid’ Co., 205, City Rd., London, England.
df
IN Bostock shoes, the feet always feel beautifully
light and comfortable; and the wearer is ready
for a garden party or any smart function. So
perfect are their fitting properties, that the shoes
positively feel as though they have been made
specially. Every time they are worn the wearer
experiences a sense of satisfaction, wonderfully like
that enjoyed in a smart Parisian gown; and this
feeling is intensified by knowing that the shoes are
exclusive in style and exquisitely finished.
Bostocks are the cream of imported shoes. Special
shipments have recently arrived at the leading stores,
and ladies should call before the choicest styles are
sold.
805
sd
Style 580
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appeal on MSS. Ao
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
F. J„ Dawson : if a country, like Britain
or France, lias its public securities held almost
entirely by its own people, and has also lent immense
sums abroad, it can import goods to a greater value
than it exports, because the interest that is coming
in from its foreign investments pays the difference.
If a country, like Australia, has borrowed immense
sums abroad, then it requires to export enough to
pay: for its imports and also to pay the interest on
its foreign liabilities. That is to say, the creditor
country (like Britain or France) can import far in
excess of its exports and yet remain solvent. The
debtor country (like Australia) must export in excess
of its imports, or else go broke in the end. Sooner
or later the difference must be paid in gold, because
that is the metal which speaks all civilised languages
-—or else the borrowing country must go insolvent.
At different times almost every country in the world
has over-run the constable and gone insolvent —Eng-
land, France, Austria, Russia, Turkey, Spain, Portugal,
Mexicb, Peru, Honduras, Guatemala, Jeff Davis’s Con-
federacy, and a lot more. (See Bulletin leading article,
10/9/’14.) .. . .W.M.: The banks took such Federal
notes as they required, and gave gold in exchange.
Part of the gold was held by the Federal Treasury
as-a reserve against the notes. Part of the gold was lent
to State Governments, and State securities were taken
in exchange. So, between gold and saleable State
securities, the Federal note issue had a backing of
20s. in the £1 to begin with. It is better than
that now, because interest has accumulated on the
State securities. .. .Verite: Not our style. Try Mel-
bourne Australasian. .. .N.B. (Orange): Thanks;
but you are altogether too pessimistic about the
wheat crop R.M.V. (W.A.) : Verses unsuitable.
Can’t return any more manuscripts unless they are
escorted by stamps. . . .Maud R. L.: Gentle lady, do
not blow the war trumpet. You make it sound like
a penny balloon. .. .Marine: Look ’ere, Bill! it’s
like this. We gotter sorter ideer that you drop yer
aitclies with difficulty. Every time you drop a
aitch it sounds sif you’d chucked a starched collar
on the floor. .. .Barbarian: Refuse to listen to you
gnashing your teeth. .. .J.M.P.: Exit three futurist
poems.... Spokeshave: Good point, but you can’t
drive it home 8.A.C.: Cannot print your poem
beginning:—-
When death to me assigns a plot
Perchance in some neglected spot
I ask but one forget-me-not _ ,
To sue for me.
The title, “Written in the Prospect of Death,” was
depressing for a start, but we tried the first verse in
hopes that you would brighten up D.T. (V.):
Curse you for a dim-pencil scribe... .John E.:
Denounce him here :—-
THE WOULD-BE YANK (slightly rearranged)
Imitation Borsalinas, slop-made Yankee suits,
Cheap, white turned; up collars, and also Yankee
boots.
They’re outward show that’s needed to make some
man look flash
When he’s done up like a wedding-cake and has not
any cash.
The Yank comes from America, but the bloke from
down the ’Loo
He beats me when he tells me that he’s a Yankee too.
He walks around the city although he be a bum,
But still he is a Yankee if he’s chewing Chewing
Gum.
It narks me when I see him dressed up so nice and
nedt; '
He thinks he’s king of somewhere and owns the
blessed street.
You see him at the Pictures —you see him at the
Play
He speaks to all the Barmaids just to pass the time
away. .
You'll see him at the National, you’ll see him at the
Tiv.
I’d like to know the secret how he manages to live.
This cursed, dressed-up bummer now list to what
I say ’C
Is the sort of beast abounding WHO LEAD YOUNG
GIRLS ASTRAY.
I’m sick and tired of writing of this chap with little
brain
So may I never mention about the WOULD-BE
YANK again.
....Frank W.: Forgive our ingratitude, but we don’t
want it. .. .Captain : Nothing. .. .J.E.H.: It’s mush.
. ...G.F.8.: No., . .Houlahan: It is wearisome....
Freedom: Don’t want any poem about soaking blood.
. ...J.C.W.: You’re a plain hooray patriot—or
parrot. . . .Respectful: (1) Haven’t heard from him
lately. (2) You wouldn’t do for the job. .. .N. Orman:
It's a trifle monotonous... .Bulga: No g00d....
L.A.5.1).: Verse unsuitable. Apply at Inquiry Dept,
(first floor) ... .John N. (S.A.) : The patriotic verse-
sampler (a sadly overworked official these days) was
carried out on a stretcher just after your item had
been dealt with. .. .C'arnoogie: Subside... .Black
Swan: Not enough in “The Coasts” for a sketch....
J.K.R.: They are now endeavoring to revive the
patriotic verse-sampler with brandy. His eyelids are
fluttering. .. . G.S.:— '
Ho, a bumper to the brave, our defenders -on the wave
Who are famed throughout 'k.
Yes, yes! But have you enlisted yet?....Fl. Keg:
They fail gracefully.... Bellerive : Action front!—
THE PARSON AND THE SOLDIER.
Don’t swear dear brothers
While you are marching away
When camped to-night
Bend your knees and pray
The Lord guard you dear brothers
And I sadly deplore
To behold you marching
Away to the war.
But nation’s will quarrel
And ’tis dash tommy rot
Hear’s a track each to 6ave
You from being shot.
....W.C. (Boulder): Like many other thirst stories.
.... Eques: There will probably be some better man-
agement now. Can’t print it, anyhow... .L.T.:
“Couldn’t the women of Sydney find something useful
to do instead of becoming ‘lady’ volunteers?” Pro-
bably they could, but this is no time to discourage
anything that will tend to brighten up the procee 1-
ings....Fiat Justitia: That matter is receiving
attention... .H.F.L.: No; have said so a dozen
times... .Ethel: Thanks.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.W.: Peace looks like a performing seal. And
look at her right arm—look at all the arms!....
C.1.K.: Stop your futile scratching. Can’t make out the
pencilled remarks on the backs of the attempted
drawings. The curse of illegibility is heavy upon
you. .. .J.E.M.: Better give up art. You can’t draw,
and at least one of the gags is 01d... .H.M.P.: Why
has the lady with the swollen face got one arm out-
stretched ? O.B.: Crude schoolboy humor....
E.K.M.: If you are more than seven years of age
you should be ashamed of yourself... .F.Ii.K. You
seem to be an inartistic nightmare factory.


Amott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
" THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
Those who suffer from Hay Fever
need no longer dread the advent of
spring and the pollen season. A little
RHINOCULIN
smeared within and without the nose
is the remedy for this irritating com-
plaint. Rhinoculin is sold everywhere
in
TUBES at 3/6 EACH.
Send a postcard asking for free trial
sample to the wholesale agents,
Rocke, Tompsitt 8 Co.,
Melbourne.
~ •
To be prepared for the attack, leave
an order for a, tube .with your chemist
right away.
r
\ «
n v
MADE IN A MOMENT!
Just hot water (not boiling) and you have a delicious, invigorating Food Drink
—known as the Powdered Energiser. The unique process of manufacture
makes it germ-free. Sample will be sent on receipt of 2d. in stamps
to Hutchinson & Co., 26, Jamieson Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
HORLICK'S
MALTED MILK
lunli™^
%
%
o
Z
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, > indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
’ SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
/and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/11
Directions with every
bottle
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
mm
THE CAN-MAKING INDUSTRY!
SANITARY—SIMPLE
EFFECTIVE—RAPID.
j.
The Entire Top Open
am
m
ENTERPRISING PRESERVEOANNERS in every part of the world
‘—'have come to realise that the old, slow, unsanitary method of
manufacturing and sealing cans by hand with poisonous solders is ob-
solete.
That is why the MAX AMS SANITARY CANNING MACHINERY
is being used by the world’s leading canners. If you are using cans
for packing preserves, fruits, vegetables, or in fact any food product, the
SANITARY, SOLDERLESS, HERMETICALLY SEALED CANS
made by these machines will save you time, money and labor.
No. 58 and No. 68 Automatic Double Seamers will seal can tops on
bodies ljin. high and 2in. in diameter up to 1 gallon and over. The
scope in the range of possible changes is instantly appreciated.
No adjusting or fussing, or mechanical skill required. .Can be run
by boy or girl.
These machines are BY NO MEANS confined to any PARTICULAR
CLASS of cans. The operation of these Seamers is SIMPLE. The
cans are automatically conveyed to the baseplate with the'cover, and
INSTANTLY the CAN' engages the rollers, making a CLEAN and tight
DOUBLE SEAM.
We Furnish Complete Outfit for Making These Cans.
For full particulars write to the
MAX AMS MACHINE CO.
MT. VERNON, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
OR THROUGH ANY EXPORT COMMISSION HOUSE.
GET BUSY.
START SPEEDING UP.
Blunt tools soon make a man blunt. Be
sharp—what you want is Danks’ Ball-
bearing . Treadle Grindstone. No handle to
turn —by using-your feet both hands can be
devoted to the delicate work of sharpening.
As easy as riding a bike down hill —nothing
to get out of order —one of the greatest time
and labor savers for the man who uses
cutting Reliable and good.
Price 37/6.
John Danks & Son
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
THE SPECIAL HOUSE FOR TOOLS.
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Liverpool Street),
391 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
t
V
fs
Dinneford's
Magnesia
df
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
KYNOCH
USE
BRITISH MADE
.22 Rim Fire CARTRIDGES
Head Works: Birmingham, England. And at Melbourne 8 Sydney.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
ii • . i
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Water* and Cordials.
ARE YOU DEAF?
EARPHONE
GIVE^PERFECTHEARING
The object of the Danjhill
Earphone is to enable
<!e.af people to hear.
By simply wearing a Danjhill Earphone a deaf peasson can sit in a room and hear
all the conversation with perfect ease. It .collects sounds from all directions withoul
losing any of their strength.
It transmits the voice clearly, and can be used in a Public fJ&'H, Theatre or Church.
For years past Jerdans Ltd. have been successfully attending to the eye
troubles of the public.
If your eyes fail you naturally take to spectacles.
Why not let us treat your ears with the Danjhill Earphone? ’p3l\e .result
will be perfect.
SOLE: AGENTS;
JE ROAN’S LTD.,
My opticians, ) 393 George Street, City.
nn
The Coldstreamsare Cornin’!
V fa j n .,.
And they’ll come right through your front door and sit around with you,
Lieut. Mackenzie Rogan conducting.
They’ll give you sych a concert as they never give an audience except an
“His master’s Voice”
audience. Their latest records are : “Review of the Brigade of Guards,”
Parts 1 and 2 (Double-sided Record, 6/6) ; “Mikado” Selections, 1 and 2
<(D.S. Record, 4/6); “Somewhere a Voice is Calling” and “My Little Jap”
, ttwo-step (D.S., 4/6). Dozens of others, just as popular.
Hear them at your “ Master's Voice ” dealer's, or write •
for dealer's address and record lists.
&ole Concessionaires for
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
453 PITT STREET SYDNEY .
mrmmm
British manufacture: throughout.
m
Copyright
Vote*
V 'nit Matter j
99


Missing Friends.
INFORMATION is required as to the
relatives of the late ALFRED CANDY,
who died at Pine Creek (Northern Terri-
tory) on 30th July, 1910. He is stated
to have had a step-brother—Henry Allen —
who died at Darwin Hospital on sth June,
1910. Both hre stated to - have been natives
of Victoria. / Communications to be sent to
the Public Trustee, Darwin, Northern
Territory. •
H. Ei .CAREY, Public Trustee.
NEW— FREDERICK ACKWORTH NEW, for-
merly of CARNDU TREFUSIS, near Falmouth,
England. If the above will communicate with the
undersigned he will hear of something to his advan-
tage. Any person who can give any information as
to the whereabouts or the death of the above will be
rewarded. . Apply, GEE, Solicitor, 6 St. Stephen’s
Avenue, Bristol, England.
Hamilton— james (steed Ham-
ilton, son of Mrs. Jane Hamilton,
late of Minnivey Farm, Dalmellington, Scot-
land, or any person who can give any infor-
mation regarding his whereabouts,
quested to communicate, giving particulars
for identification purposes, with Messrs.
Andrew & Addison, Solicitors, Ayr, Scotland.
Business Announcements,
RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO,
MUSCULAR PAINS.
WHY GO ON SUFFERING?
The RECIPE of a splendid Liniment, giving imme-
diate relief even in the worst cases, will be forwarded
promptly on receipt of postal note for 2s. The in-
gredients are easily obtainable. No patent medicine.
WRITE TO-DAY.
L. DENNIS, Rutledge Street, Eastwoad, SYDNEY
■ I
Washable
Tubular
Ties
Ask. for Cash’s
Seamless
Poplin
Ties
Ask for Cash’s
sd
'(fash's
For
marking
linen
WOVEN
NAMES
Your name is neatly woven in fast Turkey
Red on Cambric tape so that your Linen.
Clothing. Handkerchiefs, etc., are per-
manently marked by simply sewing the
name on. Prevents articles being mislaia
at laundry. Note the cost is small: U.
dozen 7/6 ; 6 dozen 5/-; 3 dozen 3/6.
Obtainable at all drapers and outfitters or
woven samples sent free on application to
j. & J. CASH LTD .
346-50 Flinders Lane, Melb.
n
Always ask
for CASH’S
'So simple
if
US
FILLS ITSELF
tvs
Cannot
Leak
From 12/- each
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
MATINEES: WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY AT 2.30.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
PAUL CINQUEVALLI. REX CIRCUS.
FATIMA. RICH & GALVIN. CARPATU BROS.
EUGENE DAMOND. MARSHALL CROSBY.
AL HERMAN. DUSTY RHODES.
VAUDE & VERNE. PHIL KAUFMANN.
MARCO & FAUCHON WOLFF.
HAMMON & WYATT. WRIGHT & DIETRICH.
Box Plan at Theatre and Nicholson’s.
TIVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
FLORENCE SMITHSON. POWER BROS.
GEORGE HALL. STELLING & REVELL.
TORINO. RALPH ERROLLE. TEDDY.
ROBERTS & LESTER.
DE DIO. ADELE BARTLETTE.
Box Plan at Glen's. PRICES: 4/-, 3/-. 2/-, 1/-.
yi VOLI THEA T R E, ADELAIDE
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
■RUSSELL & HELD. THE FOUR BOISES.
TOM KELLY. MDLLE. DAVENPORT.
FIELD & COCO. TED MERCELL.
DEXTER. JEROME & CARSON.
HARRY TAFT.
HER MAJESTY’S, S Y D N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
THE NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY
In a Musical Play in Three Acts,
THE GIRL IN THE TAXT.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
IMPERIAL SALON DE LUXE.
Manager: MICHAEL JOSEPH.
DANCING
EYEItY EVENING.
PRICES AS USUAL.
m
ti
Lime-Ikitjoioe.
Brings to your lips the juice
of the lime fruit .
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing.
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped
from London.
fds
Amusements.
QBITEEION THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Lessee FRANK MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.10.
The Young American Tragedienne, MURIEL STARR,
supported by a Brilliant Cast, in
THE YELLOW TICKET.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
yIIEA T Jt E KOY A L, BYDN K \ .
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF DU BARRY.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 26.
NELLIE STEWART in
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY
Supported by Mr. Clarence Blakiston, Mr. Lewis
Willoughby and a big company of well-known
favorites.
PRICES AS USUAL.
pals A C E TIIEAT It E. SVDN Kl.
EVERY EVENING AT 8 O’CLOCK.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
SPECIALLY ORGANISED DRAMATIC COMPANY
in E. BROOKE WARREN’S Sensational Melodrama,
THE FACE AT THE WINDOW.
BOX PLAN at Paling’s. Prices of Admission: 3/-,
2/- and 1/- (except Saturday). Early Doors 6d.
extra.
AI) K Ll* II I TII <l5 AT It 15. SYDNEY.
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8 O’CLOCK.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, in conjunction with E. J.
CARROLL, presents, for the first time in Sydney,
the most talked about play in America, entitled
THE ROSAHY.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Nicholson’s.
“Should be seen by every Christian Man, Woman
and Child.” —London Times.
EDWIN KILPATRICK
Presents an Australasian Tour of the World’s
Most Fascinating and Mysterious Picture,
THE SHADOW OE THE
CROSS.
PUBLIC WARNING.
The officials and general public of the
small towns are warned against spurious
pictures trading upon the reputation of “The
Shadow of the Cross.’*
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
The picture block theatres,
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC. COLONIAL. EMPRESS.
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing'
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to lI-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD
W. Barrikoton Mili.ek. General Manager.
HE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
WILLIAM ANDERSON presents the Novel Patriotic
Play,
THE FIGHTING SQUADRON.
POPULAR PRICES.
HER JIAiIIOSTV.’S Til HAT IIK. M ELBOURNK,.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in
GIPSY LOVE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 65., 45., 2s. and Is.
H E A T K E ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
THE SIGN OF THE CROSS.
A FEW NIGHTS ONLY.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-.
Stalls, 4/-; Gallery. 2/-. Plan at Allan's.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
GEO. WILLOUGHBY, LTD., present, in conjunction
with Beaumont Smith and Louis Meyer,
WHO’S THE LADY?
The Famous French Farcical Success.
Prices: 5/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Plan at Pianola.
BIJOU THEATRE. MELBOUR N K.
FULLER-BEENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director ~ BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SiflOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON, 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
LYONS & CULLUM. MURPHY.
BERT LE BLANC. KftOWLES & LEE.
CARPOS BROTHERS. DOROTHY HARRIS.
FOUR SPANISH GOLDINIS.
JACKOLEW RUSSIAN TRIO.
Prices: 2/6, 2/-, 1/- & 6d. Matinges: 1/6, 1/- & 6<i.
Melbourne repertory theatre
Direction GREGAN McMAHON.
At the ATHENA2UM HALL.
SATURDAY & MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26 & 28.
MRS. PRETTY AND THE PREMIER
An Australian Comedy, by ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
THURSDAY, FRIDAY & SATURDAY, OCT. 1, 2 & 3.
JOY, a Play by JOHN GALSWORTHY.
Box Plans at Pianola Co. and Booklovers’ Library,
mOY T S’ PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
THREE BIG SHOWS.
OLYMPIA, Princes Bridge.
NATIONAL THEATRE, Bourke Street (Eastern end).
HOYTS’ OWN, Bourke Street, centre (now building).
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL.
BIRCII & CARROLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE,
A couple with historic Australian names
were recently united in matrimony at Holy
Trinity Chufch, Kelso, the oldest church
westward of the Blue Mountains (built
1836). The groom was Cecil W. Manning,
of Ninga Walla Station, Bourke ; the bride,
Dorothy, second daughter of the Herbert
Suttors, of Brucedale, which was the first
home of the Suttors in the West. Arch-
deacon Oakes knotted the young couple. He
is a grandson of Francis Oakes, who was one
of the missionaries to Tahiti in the seven-
teen nineties; and later became Chief Con-
stable of Parramatta.
Sailed across the Styx, George Savage, one
of the best-known of the inter-State skippers.
He was born in Jamaica, and arrived in
Australian waters in 1885. For 26 years
he was master under the flag of the
A.T7.S.N. Co. His first command was the
Truganini (130 tons), and his last the
Kyarra (7000 tons). He never had an
accident until the chronometer went dog on
him at 67. Mention of the Trugamm
recalls the fact that old mariners described
that craft as having a greater pressure of
fleas and cockroaches to the cwt. than any
other boat had to the ton.
The cable mentions that W. Oswald Watt,
of N. S. Wales, has been raised to the rank
of captain in the French Flying Cotps “in
recognition of • his brilliant flying work.”
This is the affluent young man who gave
£lOOO to the Sydney Mayor’s fund, presented
an aeroplane to France, and joined the
French army, as being the one that was
likeliest to see immediate service, all at
once, ’that he would either do extremely
well, or get killed without delay, was con- ■
sidered certain by his Australian friends —
his bland indifference to danger of every
description being notorious. Despite his
considerable size—he is six feet high and
must weigh 12 or 13 stone —he has been a
success as a flier, both in Egypt and Eng-
land, of late years. Six months ago he went
into Bleriot’s shop as a mechanic, and he
was still engaged learning about flying
machines when the European trouble began.
The business of a member of the French
Flying Corps is twofold. He is either
asked to reconnoitre the enemy’s position—
a job which lays him open to the united
rifle fire of every hostile, position which he
overlooks —or he is required to issue forth
and engage in a duel to the death with any
rival airman who happens along. Such
ventures are thrilling, but when that has
been said one has stated everything pos-
sible in their favor. Oswald Watt held a
captaincy in a local regiment and accom-
panied Kitchener as A.D.C. during his tour
of N. S. Wales and Queensland.
“Jeames” rises in all the glory of his
plush and his calves: —
The institution in Sydney of places like the Hotel
Australia Winter Garden and the Imperial' Salon de
Luxe have been godsends to the Hash-house Nuts
and Boardin<r ; establishment Peeresses of this city.
Here they can move in the very hub of Fashion’s
whirl at not more than two bob a time. Sydney is
the only city on earth where it is possible to fore-
gather with the local Smart Set at sueh moderate
rates. Familiarity, however, here, as elsewhere,
breeds contempt—in fact, I had almost written
hatred. In no city in the world have I observed such
hearty detestation of the indigenous nobles on the
part of those who. rub shoulders with them. In
London the rich and fashionable are liked by their
satellites, and the most extravagant of their- vagaries
are condoned. In Paris, also ; despite the faet that
distrust of the Faubourg St. Germain is an article of
political creed with every Republican. N.S.W.’s
Plantagenets and D’Aubignys appear to be absolutely,
loathed by those who make a business of frequenting
their haunts.
As an instance, I was at dinner the other night at
a restaurant when a party of affluent-looking young
people came in. My companion, a lad in the house-
letting line, or something similar, was moved to
sudden anger. “More of those Society mongrels !” he
muttered darkly as who should say “A fresh consign-
ment of assassins.” His hatred, however, did not
prevent him knowing the pedigree and family history
of every one of them, and a lurid collection of narra-
tives they were. To me they looked like very ordinary
folks, the offspring of well-to-do commercial or pro-
fessional men. To his fevered mind they were a
gang of Borgias, Charles ll.’s, Casanovas and De
Montespans.
All the most marrow-freezing yarns about the clique
that is, known as “Sydney Society” come from the
cheaper suburbs via the city tea-resorts and such-like
places. There was a glorious item, a year or so ago
—an insane lie, but that was a detail —concerning a
prominent woman who was represented to have
leprosy. The Winter Garden habitues agreed, with
a surface appearance of gloom that in no wise
availed to hide their joy, that the thing was a “judg-
ment”—Heaven only knows for what. In those days
the surest way to become thoroughly unpopular, in
any hash house suburb, and to get oneself regarded
as a mischievous spoil sport, was to demonstrate the
utter imbecility of this story. It has been dead for
many months now; but a new one quickly arose out
of the ashes. Sydney is never without at least one
utterly preposterous ecandal of the sort.
Why are Sydney’s fashionables regarded with such
hostility by the outside section? Is it merited con-
tempt, the outcome of their palpable failings—
their meanness where big national movements are
concerned, their indifference to anything that is
really worthy in art; their lack of patriotism, as
shown in their eagerness-tci depreciate Australia to
strangers ? Or are the outsiders at fault, and is
their loudly expressed contempt merely jealousy in
its most futile form—the jealousy of wealth and
position? Probably a dash of both. There is nothing
very admirable about the noblesse of N. S. Wales.
On the other hand, the Hash-tower Blood and his
lady friend from the same establishment are calami-
ties, equally as great whether they are doing obser-
vation y'ork at tea at the Australia or at a Thespian
supper at the Salon.
The fact that three Australians —
Captain Dalglish, Captain Lucas-Tooth
and Mr. Richmond —have already been
killed out of the few that are serving in
British regiments gives some indication of
the holocaust of officers that has occurred
in the last few weeks. Young Richmond
was in Victoria a few months ago. His
people are in the squatting line. The Dal-
glish’s are from Goulburn (N.S.W.). Their
mother-was a De Lauret, of that city, and a
brother (Austin De Lauret) and a sister
still live a few miles out of the town. Mrs.
Dalglish married a second time after the
death of her first husband —one Bellasis,
head 'of a well-known English Catholic
family. Most of her numerous sons are in
the British army or navy, the exception
being a squatter who owns Pomeroy, one
of the Goulburn district’s show places. Cap-
tain Lucas-Tooth was second heir to the
local brewery’ millions.
By Edward Dyson, 75 Mitford-street, St.
Kilda, Melbourne :
Never did the Melbourne Argus receive a more
epinning knock to its self-esteem than these elections
have administered. “Roll up!” was its plea, reite-
rated to weariness. “Liberalism can only be beaten
by those who neglect to vote.” The result
was a‘ heavy poll, and a punch in the neck for
Fusion. To make the anguish of the Argus com-
plete, at Indi, where there was a record poll, a
Fusion member was displaced by a Laborite. The
Argus is a painful long time discovering that its
one hope lies, not in the people awaking and arising,
but in their remaining steadfastly in bed.
The late A. W. Gilles was a Tasmanian,
son of Lewis Gilles, who founded the Tamar
Bank in 1834 (the business was taken over
by the Union Bank in 183 S). A.W.G. went
to Maoriland at an early age, was engaged
in shipping on the coast there, and owned
ships in partnership with J. R. Carey.
Later, the pair came to Sydney and were
prominent in the foundation of steam ferries
to connect Manly with Sydney Gove. Like-
wise they founded the old Sydney ’Bus Co.,
and were in business in George-street as
auctioneers and commission merchants, a
business established by J. G. Cohen in the
’4o’s. It was on the site of the original
Thistle Inn, kept by the founder of the
Chisholm family, and was the second office
of the Bank of New South Wales. On the
bank’s removal to its present premises J. G.
Cohen got possession, and the auctioneering
-business was carried on there until some five
or six years ago. Mr. Gilles was the founder
of the Sydney Soap and Candle Company
and one of the founders of the Chamber of
Manufactures. Likewise, he was a director
of the New Britain Corporation, which is
interested fn cocoanut plantations in the
Solomon Islands.
“Q. 1.8.”: Major-General Allenby is a
South African who seems to have gained
some credit with French’s force in France.
He did work in Africa towards the end of
the Boer war, though writer remembers him
best after peace was declared, when, as
brigadier, he commanded the cavalry depbt
at Pretoria. His particular business in life
was hunting. Soldiering seemed to him a
sort of hobby or side-show. He was Master
of the Pretoria Fox Hounds, which were
maintained by the Pretoria garrison, just
as Wellington kept a pack when lying in
the Torres Vedras lines. They used to hunt
jackals with a fair amount of success, though
occasionally: what the Dutch call a stink-
cat, and -the Yankees a skunk, would put the
noses of the pack out of action for a week.
Allenby'wrote a book about the dreary busi-
ness. He called ’it “Pink and Scarlet,” and
it was his habit to ptesent a copy of this
great work to pepple on the slightest provo-
cation. 9
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Merchants in London are directing attention to the
fact that .supplies are filtering into Germany through
Rotterdam and elsewhere in Holland from English
sources.
The common people go to fight
For trade and matters much akin:
With ships and reg-i-ments we smite
The hated foemen black as sin,
What time the nation still is wise,
And stands' for Private Enterprise.
While Tommy Atkins takes the field,
And battles in the hellish gale,
Where men and mighty engines wield
The bolts of death and leaden hail
The trader sly in devious ways,
Will feed the German —if it {lays.
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


KEEP YOUR
SKIN CLEAR
With Daily
Use of
And occasional use of Cuti-
cura Ointment. No other
emollients do so much to
prevent pore-clogging, pim-
ples, blackheads, red, rough
hands, dandruff, itching
scalps and falling hair.
Cuticura Soap anti Ointment sold everywhere.
Liberal sample ol each, with 32-page book, sent post*
free. Address It. Towns & Co.. Sydney, N. S. W.
The Liver is the
Road to Health
If the liver is right the whole system 3s
right. CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
will gently awaken your
sluggish, clogged-up liver
and cure constipation,
stomach trouble, in-
active bowels, loss
of appetite,
sick head-
ache and
dizziness.
Purely
vegetable.
You need them.
f
Carters
WITTLE •
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The GENUINE must bear signature
Most Diseases are
Caused by Microbes
and the microbes produce fermentation
and decay. To cure the disease it is
only necessary to kill the microbes. The
merits of
RADAM’S
Microbe Killer
are well known all over America, in the
East, Canada, England, Europe and
Australia. Write for a booklet to any
of our Agents, who will mail you an
interesting story on the origin and dis-
covery of Radam’s Microbe Killer.
Distributing Agents —
NEW ZEALAND —Malcolm & Grigg, 78
Bond Street, Dunedin.
QUEENSLAND —George Gough & Son,
240 Albert Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Coeking & Co,
Ltd., Topliam Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA—W. W. Dobson,
Agnes Street, Beaconsfield, Fremantle.
NEW SOUTH WALES—Cromack & Co.,
Royal Exchange Offices, Bridge Street,
Sydney.
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA—Duerdin &
Sainsbur.v, 349 Flinders Lane.
Ask your Chemist, aslc your Storekeeper
for Radam's Microbe Killer. It is your
remedy medicine for every ailment.
Cigar and Cig'arette
Smokers’ Attention.
SEND Eight Shillings for trial box of
100 Manila Cigars, Rest Grade. Eight
Shillings for 500 Philippine Cigarettes—cork
tipped —Best Grade. Satisfaction or Money
refunded.
Sent prepaid by registered parcel post to
any address on receipt of price.
Write for handsome illustrated free cata-
logue.
PATTINGELL 8 CO., lucena, Tayabas, P.I.
&
w\\
II “ 1
0
2
8 H--' 4
7 fc 5
9
8
BIG BEN
9
lei
Big Ben—Two good alarms in one
Take your choice in Big Ben. He
rings either way you ivish five
straight minutes or every other half
minute for all of ten minutes unless
you switch him off. He’s two alarms
in one.
If you're a light sleeper, turn on
the half-minute taps before you go
to bed. If you sleef) heavily, set the
five minute call. You can slumber
then without the get-up worry on
your mind.
When morning comes, and it’s an-
nounced by Big Ben’s jolly bell, you
can’t help getting up at once, for Big
Ben never fails to get you wide awake.
Big Ben is really three good clocks
in one, two excellent alarms and a
fine time-keeper to keep in any room
and tell time all day by.
If you have got to get up bright
and early, if you have to get down to
work on time, ask for Big Ben at
your jewellers, and try him for a
week. You’ll never want to be with-
out him afterwards.
Big Ben stands seven inches tall.
He is triple nickel-plated and wears
an inner vest of steel that insures
him for life. His big, bold figures
and hands are easy to read in the
dim morning light. His large, com-
fortable keys almost wind them-
selves. He rings five minutes steadily
or ten intermittently. If he is oiled
every other year, there is no telling
how long he will last.
Big Ben is made in La Salle,
Illinois, U S.A., by Westclox. His
price is 12/6, postage 1/- extra. If
you cannot find him in your town,
send a money order tc the makers’
Australian office, Westclox, 63 Pitt
Street, Sydney. They will have
one mailed to you by the nearest
jeweller.
dsf
A HOME FOR
MELBOURNE GUESTS.
¥
Corner Flinders Street
and Spencer Street,
MELBOURNE,
Sir Charles Hotham Hotel
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage ; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
POVNTPEN.
Sold by all
Staiionersi
S Catalogue Free on Request.
( MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australi n Branch (Wholesale only)
1 J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney
sd
use
PS
&
&
Prizes Value £4OOO in the
8-Hour Art Union & Sports
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
DRAWN OCTOBER 31, 1914.
Ist Prize, value £B5O. 2nd Prize, value £4OO.
3rd Prize, value £3OO. And 397 other Valuable
Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. D. C. Morrison,
Balmain, Svdnev, N.S.W., -for the modest outlay of ONE
SHILLING.
GET A TICKET & HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1914.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 5.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list
of the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from
Agents in all towns, or direct from '
JOHN W. DOYT.E, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Shorel” : The war is going to be a bless-
ing to local manufacturers. The agents have
raised the price of many imported lines, and
the public are being driven, thereby, to ask
for the Australian article. Take mustard.
Australia produces a superfine quality. Yet
Baggs, the grocer, has been impelled to shun
it hitherto. Now changed conditions
are breaking down prejudice, and the sale
of the local D.S.F. is booming. At any
time it only needed sampling to make good.
The trouble was that even a free sample
received the cold eye. The time is ripe,
* * * *
“Croson” : Talking, of patriotism, a young
white-working friend of mine was in the'habit
of making £1 a week building nightdresses
for a Flinders-lane (Melb.) firm, the rate of
payment being 10s. 6d. per dozen. She was
asked to contribute to the firm’s patriotic
fund and did so. rushing up an extra quarter-
dozen next week to make it up. On arriving
with the goods she was staggered to find the
rate had been reduced to Bs. Od. per dozen.
The explanation appeared in the subscription
lists next day, as follows : “,T. Softgoods and
Son. £.»0; Softgoods and Son’s employees.
£3n 10s.”
* * * *
The jubilee of local brush-making will be
celebrated this year in Melbourne. In 1860
one John Zeyenbroom, from Amsterdam,
arrived there and started the industry, with
which his family in Holland had been con-
nected for years. lie commenced in a very
small way in Elizabeth-street North in
1864, but the tariff helped him immensely
When success was secured he became a .LIT
a city councillor, and at his death was Vice-
Consul for the Netherlands. The little Dutch
venture of 50 years has grown immensely,
and is now a purely Australian concern
* ' '
This from Brisbane Courier < 7/9/’l4'i :
Experienced Clerk; to act, as cashier, iu, leading
life insurance office, good opening right man; salary
to commence, £75 per annum. Apply, with recr
enees, to Box Fl 2, this office.
Will the “leading life insurance office” kindly
for waul its photograph?
PATRIOTISM!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A large contingent of buyers from the leading
commercial houses of Sydney sailed for America by
the Ventura on Saturday. Their visit to the United
States is for the purpose of negotiating with Ameri-
can manufacturers for the supply of classes of goods
which Australia used to import from Germany and
Austria. It is evident that the Americans are going
to reap a rich commercial harvest from Australia as
a result of the war. — Uazzingly patriotic item from a
Sydney journal.
Needless to ask if you are patriotic, camerados?
I thought so!
I, too, am patriotic; I, too, sing the war-songs of our
suffering country, and imbibe the long, brown
beer of a high-spirited people.
But, h6las, what is my patriotism—or yours, cam-
crados—when compared with the scintillating
patriotism of our great Importers?
A has les Allemands ! Unfrock der Kaiser!
Cries patriotic and appealing from our great Im-
porters !
Actions unmistakable for the good of the Empire!
A policy for the Commonwealth—directed by our
great Importing Patriots, camerados!
It is High, Low and Indiscriminate. Treason to deal
with, off, by, to, for, or in any direction from
THE ENEMY 1
Cries patriotic and appealing from our great
Importers!
Down with the Germans! Mock der Kaiser!
And so on, and so forth, and continuously, my good
comrades!
We will never, never, NEVER import the pale lager
and the dark lager and the tinny piano and the
thunderous piano of the Germans !
Well, hardly ever, anyway—perhaps !
We are the good patriots—the Great Importing
Patriots of AUSTRALIA, camerados!
We would not be seen dead, while there is war on,
with anything German —not even a cousin-
german.
No, no!
Three cheers for the Empire!
Three cheers for Imperial Preference !
Three cheers for British Manufactures.
Who said Australian Manufactures? Why, we can't
make anything like it!
The thought is absurd—ineffably preposterous!
Ha, ha!
Grow things, raw material and such-like, certainly.
But manufacture! Oh, ridiculous!
Too foolish to think of!
Dashed unpatriotic, too!
Pianos, soap, pipes, tinware, glass, paper, cloth,
beads, arms and oth r products we import from
Germany.
I should say imported, camerados; we do so no
longer.
It would be treason.
High treason ; also, it would be impossible.
Down with the Germans ! Away with German manu-
factures ! We REFUSE to import them !
We are the Great Importing Patriots; please recollect
that.
It is true, it is dashed aivkward that we are cut off
from Germany and from the cheap manufactures
of Germany.
But, by Heaven, we arc patriotic! We could never
think of obtaining anything more from (lie
enemy.
No, no!
Where in thunder can we get cheap imported goods?
Kind Heaven inspire us!
A-a-a-ali!
Certainly I Of course !
Uncle Hamland!
Amurka! Eureka!
Saved, camerados, saved! Your Great Importing
. Patriots are SAVED!
Hasten! Fly, float, write, rush, wire, cable to Uncle
Samland !
The cheap German, in Milwaukee and the aggressive
Teuton of St. Louis, U.S.A., shall make the
dashed things for us!
The hostile German of Chicago and the annoyed Ger-
man in Ohio shall rescue the Great Importing
Patriots of the Empire!
Blow the Empire!
Blank Imperial Preference!
Euchre Australian Manufactures !
lSooli !
Saved !
Clear like Hell! Order all you can get!
Saved! Camerados, your grandest patriots are
SAVED!
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


GUNS
of Quality
and Stability.
ws
iSCv;
fev’3
ISAAC HOLLIS S SONS’ “ THE RELIABLE ” D.8.8.L. Gun,
12-gauge, top lever, bar action. 30in. real twist or steel
barrels, Greener cross bolt, both choke, rebounding lodes, ...
snap fore-end, chambered for 2fin. cartridges, weight from 7|lb. to i a lb.
for all Smokeless Powders, lialf-p.stol gnp,wahmt stock.
Guaranteed
£6 12s. 6d
ďs
fd
C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
12 or 16-gauge, top lever, double "bolt, 30in. barrels,
left choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks, nitro proof,
of 12-gauge, about 7ilb- ; of 16-gauge, about 6J;lb. ;
Greener cross-bolt. DELIVERED,
£4 12s. 6d,
f
Send for our Price List o;
Guns, Rifles & Ammunition.
Post Free Anywhere.
C. G. Bonehill’s “Special” D.8.8.L. Hammer Gun,
12 gauge, top lever, 32in. barrels, right modified, left full choke, bar locks rebound-
ing, solid strikers, high-filed rib, chambered for -jin. cartridges, s de
clips, nitro-proof, pistol grip, cross bolt. Carnage paid,
£5 5, 1 -
GUN REPAIRS
a Speciality.
All kinds of Gun
Parts in stock.
dsf
DOMOULINS' D.8.8.L. CBN,
12-gauge, top lever, 30in. real twist barrels,
choke, side clips, square Greener cross bolt,
highly engraved, pistol grip, walnut stock
weight about 71b., patent fore-end. PObl X
/fc
MICK SIMMONS LTD
THE BEST HOUSE FOR ALL
SHOOTING REQUISITES.
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
City Depot: 119 King Street, Sydney ; and at Hunter Street, Newcastle.
Indulge the Children
to-day, and every day, wiih
Bird’s Custard. It is so pure
and digestible that it never
disagrees, and so nutritious
that the children thrive on it.
Birds
the Perfect Custard!
Sold in Pkts., Boxes and new LARGE Tins.
Try also BIRD’S Crystal JELLY—It dissolves instantly.
POST FREE. — A Valuable Recipe Book sent, on receipt of address, by
\V. C. Douglass, 53, Liverpool Street, Sydney.
s.w.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
use since 1596.
:
Write for Book. cures W rite for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
Insist on "Sineleton s’ —refuse all substitutes.
“CARBIDE
Ask J^“PERNIX,”
and see that
you get it, with
the trade mark
“PERNIX” on every Cask and Dru'r*.
Addresses of Merchants disirioutiny it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED,
62 Pitt Street, Svdney, Sole Ag nts for Australia.
INCORPORATED 1888 BY SPECIAL ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD. 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES, ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc.
Trustee and Administrative Work of Every Description.
Estates and Properties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Full Details on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
Hi
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . BYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from os.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Pai-
ticulars posted on application to
1 The Manager.
SCHUTE, BELL, &. Co., Ltd-
sell WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
£ ravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrik
England, 6d. llow to Gut Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
TINH’S SILENT F'RIKND, IS od. NkD DONNELLYS ART
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to W rkstle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d All /.ola»,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse Is. Ventriloquism Made Ras\, Is. ui’-io-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational 1 ress Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
lovs of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrillk Call Book,
ADVENTURES OF A FLIRT, 1/3. PARLOR TRICKS & GAMES,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller s s, ’ OR / J-
ingPamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert W ales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowlkii’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Min ers’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
38 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fair
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Fouality 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
nosted. ’Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s F'reemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
ok Paris Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatcn-
fordl 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God ' ani> My Neighbor, 6d. Britain fop. the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses.
la 3d Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
»nd Staining 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycooks Guide, Is 6d.
■
HOME cyclopedia
EMBRACING
THE POPIILA K “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chronios 400 Illustrations. 124 S Paces.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which thev feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
loth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANT address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE
bookseller to the commonwealth, -m
gipsy fortune telling cards- love,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Skorkts and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. ’ How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (liuies for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlop. Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date. Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers' Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s (id posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
oth' rs. all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. f9opEstablislied 25 Tears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
IVrite for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER,
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE
OR
DUTY.
SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to tire Stage, Is
posted. New Thicks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford's Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s fed.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is -d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. "Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
INGERSOLLS WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
IjSCJERSOLjLj o >» Ulvl\o, oca, ,
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse s Advice 10 a
Wife 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
’ i - ic QH nnsr, frpp.
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfadden's Works, all at 5s posierl.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
B hlers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife s Handbook,
ls°d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. .OOJNtn
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. W bbsters Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,leath.r
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
»-uineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is -d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Impost. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com.
plete), Is fid posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUL TO-DAY.


ds
fd
sf
Why suffer from Eczema. Why toss on your bed at
night, and scratch your burning skin? Although Eczema is
the most common of all skin diseases, and often results
from a trifling exposure to heat or cold, do not under-estimate its danger. It often
becomes chronic, causes dreadful suffering and disfigurement, and even blindness,
deafness, or loss of hair.
liexona, the Rapid Healer, is a dire enemy to Eczema, as well as to all other
skin diseases. Rexona will make your skin healthy, destroy the germs of the
diseases for ever, and cause the building up of new skin tissue. A hot bath with
Rexona Soap, gentle anointings with Rexona Ointment, a pleasant treatment —-
mu' :
■to.).
MISS
GRACE
stow :
irom a .
result, sleep quietly, skin soothed and healed,
while soon all traces of the disease leave
you. You are healthy. Eczema yields to
the powerful healing influences of Rexona,
the Rapid Healer.
“Prompted by a spirit of gratitude, I
have much pleasure in testifying to the
benefit I have received from using
Rexona, the Rapid Healer,” writes Miss
Grace Stowe, High Street, Charlton, Vic-
toria. “Before trying Rexona I tried
pretty well all sorts of Ointments for
Eczema, with which I had been troubled
for some time, but could not
find anything to cure it. It
was not until I tried Rexona
that I found anything that
would benefit, it, but now, after
using Rexona for a short time,
it has all disappeared, and has
left the skin smooth and clear.
Rexona is the best remedy for
Eczema I have ever come
across, and I heartily recom-
mend it to all who are troubled
with Eczema.”
"Rexona, the New Rapid Healing Ointment, is particularly designed to remove
Eczema and other kindred skin affections, and is an unsurpassed preparation for
this purpose. Rexona promptly allays the irritations and itching, taking away
the desire to scratch the parts affected, quickly dries up any pus or exuding
matter, eases the ache and pain, and, being a germicide of the highest order,
promptly destroys all dangerous germs and bacteria, building up at the same time
new skin tissues and cells —so that in the end a new and perfect skin is formed
where the disease formerly existed.
REXONA is sold only in triangular tins at 1/6 and 3/-
o
o
0
THE RAPID HEALER
m
I Jo"
HS
“REX” Luncheon
Cheese
is Great Whichever
Way You Take It.
You have never eaten anything that will appeal to your taste like “Rex”
Luncheon Cheese.
Try it as part of to-morrow morning’s breakfast (“Rex” Luncheon Cheese on
toast). Never mind the butter —this new kind of cheese is just the right
consistency for easy spreading, and its piquancy cannot be improved by
butter or anything else.
If vou lunch at the office try a few sandwiches made from
“REX”
Luncheon Cheese.
—
Your appetite will be stimulated and your digestion benefited by this new kind
of Cheese.
Yes, there’s a reason —“Rex” Luncheon Cheese possesses all the valuable
properties of perfectly-matured full Cream Cheese.
And to-night have a few Crackers spread with this Cheese for supper. No
nightmare will disturb your slumber, for “Rex” Luncheon Cheese is easy to
digest.
Get a tin or jar to-day. All grocers stock it.
OTHER “REX” CANNED DELICACIES ARE: —
Ham Pate, Jib. tins,
Veal and Tongue Pate, Jib. tins,
Pork Brawn, lib. tins,
Pork Sausages, lib. tins,
Pork and Beans, ljlb. tins,
Pigs Feet in Jelly, lib. tins,
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese in decorated
tins and porcelain jars,
and
“Rex” Brand Lard, for cooking pur-
poses, in lib. prints.
“REX” FRESH SMALL GOODS. (Pro-
curable at all Grocers and Small
Goods Shops and Carts in Brisbane
and District and Bendigo and District
only.)
Saveloys,
Strasburg Sausage,
Veal German Sausage,
White Puddings,
Black Puddings,
Pork Sausages,
Frankfurt Sausages.
FOGGITT, JONES 8 CO., Ltd.
Curers of “ Rex ” Hams and Bacon,
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Prcducts,
Makers of “ Rex ” Small Goods.
rr>?
TS
££
EO
r Ju¥<
Vi
■as
as
The Matter of a Pipe.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f | the blue mist that veiled
| the cheerful night
I heard some voices talking by the
sea.
One woman’s throat made giggles of delight
That soft, warm airs bore gently up to me,
And everything around seemed fairly right
Because young love was sitting on my
knee.
ill things are fairly right when one observes
The world through tangles of disordered
hair,
And every star upon its orbit swerves
To choke with silver hands the throat of
care, -**
While each bright tuft of shining moonlight
serves
To wipe life’s slate of that dull word “be-
ware.”
I do not like beware-ing all the time.
Though caution is a thing that men
regard,
This old world chortles to a careless rhyme
Sung by some very drunk Olympian bard ;
I know that nature and my blood kept time
To mirth and Mabel on that starlit sward.
Then nothing that might chance could
matter much ;
The old-chum sea was sleeping at our feet.
The kind old hillside leant upon his crutch
Spreading his purple whiskers for our seat,
And Mabel’s waist was such delight to touch
My own mad heart against her corsets
beat.
All seemed exactly as it. should have been
Before the days of motor-cars or tripe,
When all the woods of Arcady were green
And only love of all earth’s fruits was
ripe—
“Excuse me,” said the voice, “but have you
seen
A rather nicely-colored meerschaum pipe?”
Such voices were not known in Arcady,
Such quests were never told in old
romance ;
I wished the speaker in the midmost sea
With large sharks feasting on his coun-
tenance ;
My Mabel rose and shook her bosom free,
And smote the fell intrusion with a glance.
I said I had not met his reeking stem
Or baleful bowl besmeared with nicotine.
The stars were many, let him ask of them
Whose eyes perchance his horror might
have seen.
For us the wide night’s silver diadem
Failed to reveal an article so mean.
We passed away with steps of high disdain
And found another seat remote and far.
We left the night and moonshine to explain
How very numerous young grass blades
are.
To us the search seemed as absurdly vain
As chasing sparrows in a motor-car.
We soon forgot that meerschaum pipes were
made:
Young dalliance held us in delightful
thrall.
The subtle night once more her homage paid,
And every little breezelet seemed to call
Our simple souls to gladness undismayed
By any word the large, round moon let
fall.
We really had a very pleasant time.
We heard earth’s oldest echoes round us
start,
While Mabel’s sweetness kept its constant
rhyme
To the true pulsing of my hanpy heart;
But when stark midnight struck her solemn
chime
We knew the hour had come at last to
part.
I left her at her own suburban gate
Some little distance from our spooning
place,
I went through silver airs with soul elate
And twelve hot kisses burning on my face,
All of which pleasures, I am glad to state,
Had been delivered both with skill, and
grace.
The moon and time were now exactly right,
Large slabs of silence filled the lamp-
strewn way;
I brought that meerschaum pipe into the
tight
From the dark pocket where the treasure
lay,
Then anger pvt my gladness all to flight —
Young lore had smashed it in her pleasant
play.
n.s.w.
GEORGE STREET.
My Rejectorate.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f | lIE Federal elections (not the recent
1 elections, but a previous lot) were only
six weeks distant, and already the land
was filled with the blunder of the captains
and the floutinv. And not all gladly do I
know that in this campaign I had no place
to stand for that I might try to sit in another.
I was not in the fight; for fighting is a joyous
thing. I had no electorate, but I cannot
forget that I am a man who hath had losses,
and that in Australia I have two rejectorates.
My first attempt to enter Parliament does
not count. It was for a Victorian State
;seat, and I occupied an honorable position
at the foot of the poll, but that was because
a newspaper flattered me with a libel, and
the loss was the newspaper’s because it was
smitten with the grievous weapon known as
Costs. My second attempt was a fair run,
and in earnest, and that time the people of
Victoria lost my inestimable services by giv-
ing me 300 votes less than the occasion de-
manded. My latest nomination was for the
Federal Electorate of Bourke—an interesting
collection of north-eastern Melbourne suburbs
from Brunswick to Heidelberg, and including
the very populous prison of Pentridge, the
Asylum for the Insane at Yarra Bend,
and the Austin Hospital for Incurables.
I should think that most of the
warders at Pentridge and at Yarra Bend
voted for me, but one visit to the Hospital for
Incurables decided me to let the other ma:i
have the votes of the perishing if he pleased
to seek them. Politics are full of strange ex-
periences. Many men pursue votes as men-
dicants pursue pence. But after one
knowledge of those suffering men and women
dying slowly of cancer —waiting with painful
breath for their intangible executioner, and
agonising to the end —i felt that if thu were
the price of victory the great heart of Aus-
tralia must continue to beat without me. I
preferred defeat. So I did not again visit
that place to beg with more or less correct
views on the land tax for the suffrages of
the dying. There are instances of actors
who, after playing the one part for 300
nights, forgot it in the mere loathing of the
words. I talked to ninety meetings, more
or less, the same stuff, so that tne inter-
rupter became a joy, and the opponent,
whose opposition relieved the awful mono-
tony of the proceedings, was a thing of
beauty. As already mentioned, the warders
at I'entridge and at Yarra Bend voted for
me, and but for the Commonwealth having
unwarrantably disfranchised the lunatics i
would have been returned, for they would
have supported me to a man. So I am
justly entitled to a seat in the House of
Representatives except for the trivial dis-
crepancy of insufficient votes.
I addressed meetings at factories during
lunch hour, and of afternoons I spoke more
or less learnedly to meetings of mothers—
each with one or more babies—for they were
Labor voters; and in the twilight and the
evening and the dark night I had longer
meetings for men and women, with generally
a dog fight at the back of the hall. This
habit of attending political meetings proves
to me that the intelligence of dogs is exag-
gerated. Nobody ever sees an elephant at
a political meeting, but a dog fight invariably
began just when I finished compulsory ser-
vice and started on the Commonwealth land
tax.
I talked in halls, and from the decks of
lorries, and from piles of building material,
and one night I spoke from a platform with
my back to the wall of a baker’® oven, which
was very grateful and comforting, for the
night was cold.
One night in East Brunswick I addressed
an open-air meeting on a vacant lot opposite
a boom-built and very ugly hotel of cemented
brick —a gloomy place with a lot of rooms
and few boarders. My voice had not quite
the timbre of Caruso’s., and I asked one of
the committee, a naturalised German, to
bring a glass of water from the hotel. The
publican was anti-Labor, and he spoke rudely,
directing the committeeman to the trough,
where a horse and two dogs were drinking.
The committeeman came back, broken with
rage, and told the story aloud pro bono
publicano.
“Friends,” he said, “I ask der buplican
for a trink of wasser for der gandidate, and
he tell me let der gandidate trink out of der
trough.”
I laughed so much that I almost fell off
the platform, and we never heard of the
publican till polling day. Then Billy Ham-
mond, who was driving a pair in an English
mail waggon to round up the voters, made
my revenge his own. He told me of his
adventures that night.
“I was given the name of a woman voter,
and I called at her house. ‘Righto,’ says she.
‘Just you wait till I clean meself, mister,
and I’ll come with you pretty quick.’ I
waited haf an hour, an’ putty soon it made
me tired, an’ I wus jus’ goin’ to clear, when
out she comes with about a dozen an’ a haf
of children, an’ she ses : ‘Climb up, dears —-
the gen’l’man is goin’ to take us ridin’.’ I
drove her up to the booth, an’ she ses: ‘Jus’
you wait an’ drive us home again.’ An’ I
knew you’d never get into Parliament that
way. So I ses: ‘l’ll wait, but take the chil-
dren out, because the horses go .crazy with
’em.’ She ses ‘All right,’ and dismounts the
kids, an’ I ses: ‘Now you know who to vote
for. “Bedford,” the first name on the paper.’
And she ses : ‘No, I votin’ f’r Mr. Polwizzle’
—or some such guy—‘what’s candidate for
South Melbourne.’ So soon’s she’s gone—•
tellin’ me again to wait—l drove off slick.
The organiser told me to call at a place in
East Brunswick, an’ while I’m waitin’ for
two old ■yomen to get into their best clothes
I go over to a big pub with a million rooms
an’ four boarders, an’ a hobo in the bar
singin’ to himself very softly about beer, an’
a man behind the beer pump lookin’ as sulky
as a dancin’ bear with corns on his feet.
“I had a drink an’ shouted for your sake,
an’ the hobo an’ the sulky man drank. ‘Then,’
says the sulky man, ‘is that one of Bedford’s
veekles?’ An’ I says, ‘lt is.’ Says he: ‘Y’
can drive me up—l want to vote.’ I said,
‘Thanks,’ an’ he asked me to have a drink,
an’ handed me a seegar with all its clothes
off down to its underpants to smoke while
lie’s upstairs. Soon’s he’s gone the hobo
says, ‘Don’t you drive that bloke, mate—he
don’t vote Labor —lie’s the bloke that tells
Bedford’s man that Bedford can drink out of
the trorf.’ So I says, ‘Thanks,’ and climbed
back to the mail waggon, and jus’ then down
comes the sulky man. ‘Wait a bit,’ he says.
‘l’m goin’.’ ‘Not much,’ I says. ‘How’m I
to get to the pollin’-booth?’ he says. An’ I
says, ‘Ride up in the trorf,’ and laffed.”
I lost votes by the hundred because I’d
seen the Pope, because I wrote for The
Bulletin, and because I made the mistake
of talking Australia to a populace which
regarded me as the foreigner from East Mel-
bourne. I also alienated considerable anti-
Labor, but not necessarily anti-Bedford,
votes by being myself. There were the votes
of a whole wowser church lost because it
was known that I was incredulous in the
matter of Jonah and his whale. I lost 10
votes of men with grocers’ and liquor
licenses because I refused to recognise the
selling of single bottles at hotels as a matter
for the Commonwealth Parliament. And I
missed a few criminals’ votes because I
couldn’t agree that a State gaol or asylum
should have its wages raised by the House
of Reps.
The meetings at the asylum were mar-
vellous. To talk politics to hungry warders
at mess-time is very disquieting to any man
who knows that he mustn’t interfere with
another man’s food.
But I was warmly welcomed by the luna-
tics, who overheard my speeches, and they all
said they hoped I would be returned—but
whether to the asylum or to Parliament was
not satisfactorily explained.
(Continued on next page.)


ds
ACCIDENTS are always happening in the
kitchen, in the dining-room, in the garden,
at the children’s play, and during every kind y
of work or athletic pursuit.
Directly Zam=Buk is applied to a wound or
sore it serves to alleviate the pain and
inflammation, reduce any swelling, and
prevent the place “taking bad ways."
Zam-Buk also has splendid antiseptic
properties.
In a natural way belonging to the
natural extracts from which it is
manufactured, this balm stops
the growth of harmful microbes
that account for the festering
of a neglected or wrongly
treated sore, it kills or nul-
lifies all dangerous influ-
ence at once, and causes
the tissues, which it
has first made clean
in a medical sense,
to knit together
once more until
all trace of the
sore or injury
has gone.
Zam-Buk is
the ideal
healer for
daily
home
use.
fd
Ol
Trod
on a
Rusty Nail.
Poisoned Foot Healed,
Mrs. M. Dehon, who lives
at 53 Little Albion Street,
Surry Hills, Sydney, says:
"One day whilst crossing the
yard I slipped, and a rusty
nail penetrated my foot and
caused a painful jury. Within
a few days blood-poisoning set
in. and my foot and leg began to
be extremely inflamed and swollen.
Night after night 1 would lie awake
in agony, and often the pain made me
cry out aloud. For some time I was
too crippled to get about, or do anything.
After reading about Zam-Buk I sent for
a large pot of the balm. I began to apply
dressings of Zam-Buk to the injury twice
daily, and it soon effected a noticeable im-
provement. My foot was freed of pain, the
swelling and inflammation were greatly reduced,
and the wound began to look a lot healthier.
"I persevered with Zam-Buk until the wound was
thoroughly rid of all bad matter, and then it healed
rapidly and perfectly. I cannot speak too highly
of Zam-Buk.”
I'or everyday skin sores, flesh wounds and injuries, Zam-
Buk is -a reliable healer to keep always handy. Of all
ehemists and storekeepers, at 1/0 and 3/6 per pot.
bm-Btik
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize IVJedaJs.
ďf
Works: Birmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
draw n to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Home-made Beauty Helps
and Money-saving Recipes.
By RITA MOYA.
It is quite impossible for me to give advice in these columns regarding the merits of
various preparations on the market. In general, my advice to women who wish to ieia •
or regain, their youthful appearance is to avoid the many unreliable, cheap, made-up pi
parations. Nature provides many simple “beautifiers,” and the best results aie o
from their use. You must not be disappointed if you experience a little trouble in omam-
ing some of tlie ingredients mentioned below. They can all be obtained, liowevei, iom .
reliable chemist, and even if he does not happen to have them in stock he will gnm
obtain them for you at a few hours’ notice, if you insist—and you should insjst.
smart, dainty woman of to-day likes to know what she is using.
Sure Way of Permanently Removing
Superfluous Hairs. — The usual hair removers
on the market i have found not at all satis-
factory- I recommend the following prepara-
tion. It is really wonderful in its action,
destroying hairs completely in a few moments.
Many women have merely a down on the arms
and face, and imagine they do not need a
hair remover. They hardly realise what a
wonderful difference there would be in their
appearance if this down, even light as it
may be, were removed. Get at any good
chemist an ounce of pure powdered plieminol.
Mix a little of it into a paste with water and
apply it to the hair growths. Wash off after
two minutes and the hairs will have entirely
disappeared. A little non-greasy face cream
can then be applied with advantage.
Powder Not Necessary.— Few women know
that it is possible to give the complexion a
delightfully smooth, velvety appearance in a
few moments by the application of ordinary
cleminite. If you have no cleminite in the
house, get about an ounce from your chemist
and dissolve it in four .tablespoonsful of cold
water. This lotion applied to the face, neck
or arms, with the linger tips, immediately
gives that peach-like bloom so much admired;
powder is not necessary, and the result lasts
all day long. For an evening in a hot ball-
room this recipe is unrivalled. You will not
get that greasy, shiny look so often seen after
a little exertion.
Natural Wavy Hair. —You hair will regain
its rich lustre and fluffy appearance if cleansed
occasionally with a mild shampoo. The very
best thing I know of for this purpose is plain
stallax, a teaspoonful of which dissolved in
a cup of hot water is sufficient for the thickest
growth of hair. Pure stallax. however, seems
rather expensive, as it is only sold in the
original packages which cost half a crown.
This quantity, however, is sufficient for -o or
30 shampoos, so it really is most economica,
in the long run. Dry, irritating or protusei.'
oily scalps are soon put in a healthy condi-
tion. and dull, brittle hair grows bright and
even in color, and will be ever so soft and
fluffy.
Hair Culture. —There is no excuse for falling
hair: no excuse for thin, sick hair, or bain
spots. No beauty of features can make up roi
a distressing lack of hair growth, and tne
formula which 1 purpose giving you will posi-
tively force the hair to grow. Mix about an
ounce of boranium in ]-pint of bay rum,
shake the bottle well and allow it to stand tot
half an hour, then add I-pint of fresh cold
water and strain. Rub well into the scalp,
and in two weeks’ time look for the new
growth; you will not require a microscope to
see it.
To Renew Complexions without Cosmetics.
—lf the excessive user of cosmetics oni
knew the impression her artificiality, reah.
makes upon others, she would quickly .ee
the means of gaining a natural complexion.
Let her acquire the mercolised wax halm, dis-
carding make-up entirely, and she will soon
have the kind of complexion that women en
and men admire. It is so easy to .
little mercolised wax from the chemist an i
use it nightl} like cold cream, washing it on
in the morning. Gradually the lifeless, •
outer cuticle peels off in tiny invisible
and in a week or so you have a brand
complexion, clear, soft, velvety and of gi_ -
color and texture. The treatment is so bimpie.
harmless and marvellously effective the
der is that every woman whose skin ls \
ered and discolored has not already adopted
Machine politics in Australia have been
a good thing because they at least pledge
a candidate to something, and have sent to
the woods the Independent Buttinski who
once got himself elected by football clubs,
or through his attention to galvanised-iron
tabernacles, or otherwise well-meaning organ-
isations whose mistaken idea of a good
man is one constituted of two barrels of
water, half a pint of blood and sixty pounds
weight of sawdust. The day of the alleged
independent lias . gone. Ilis ambitions to be
a party of his own, and the efficacy of his
little pomps and vanities are departed. And
thereby hangs a tale.
Twenty years ago there was an ambitious
young man in the Vie. State Legislature
who, seeing no possibility of inclusion in a
State Ministry, decided to invent, lead and
follow a Young Australia party consisting
exclusively of himself.
Jack Edgar, now deceased, and then of
the Argus, was sent out to a little suburb
next day to interview the leader of the new
party. He found the great statesman in
charge of a bifurcated shop in a mean
street. One leg of the shop, so to speak,
sold bull’s-eye lollies and bow ties. The
other was the House Agency Department,
where houses were let for a half-crown com-
mission, and the prospective tenant had to
return with the keys before he got back his
deposit of ninepence, or some such matter.
“Good morning,” said Edgar. “Are you
Mr. Wiggles?”
“Yes,” said the young man eagerly.
“What can I do for you?”
“I’m from the Argus.”
“The Argus?” repeated the. eager poli-
tician flatteringly. “Would you like an
interview?”
“That’s what I’ve come for.”
“Certainly, sir, certainly.”
“You are the leader of the Unborn Aus-
tralian Party?”
“I am.”
“We understand from your speech last
night that you propose to give special atten-
tion to finance?”
“Yes, indeed. You see, at present we owe
sixty-four millions nine hundred and twenty-
seven pounds nine and twelvepence. Now
with a consolidation of the debt and a Stink-
ing Fund, we would have the debt exter-
minated, I should say extinguished, in 39
years....
“Excuse me. What is it, my child? A
pennyworth of bulls’-eyes? Yes. Excuse
me, sir, we are very busy to-day... .There
you are, my child ....
“Now, sir, as I was saying, the consolida-
tion of the debt should have a particular
bearing on the railways. The Stinking
Fund, properly applied, would in 27 years
make all our railways free of debt. Now
the sixty-four millions... ._
“Pardon ine. What is it, my boy ? No,
tell your mother we cannot put any bricks
down in the yard. We have already put a
new oven in the kitchen, and the rent is
only nine-and-six. . . .No ! You can’t get
the ninepence deposit till you bring back the
keys. Now, don’t be impudent, my boy
No keys, no ninepence.
“Well, as I was saying. I have given a
great amount of time and patience, not to
say intellect, to the question of finance. The
sixty-four millions with a Stinking Fund
of 1 point decimal five per cent, would in
39 years and a few months....
“Eh! Excuse me. Yes. my child. Change
for half-a-crown. Can’t do it. We banked
yesterday.”
Edgar’s interview was never printed. The
Argus would not print such things, because
the Argus is above a joke.
RANDOLH BEDFORD.
Bondi Smith.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DOLORES DE LA REY—that was the
name we knew her by. Dolores,
which means pain, and “of the king,”
a name bestowed in years gone by upon the
native mistress of some Spanish soldier of
the line, becoming, as more years rolled by,
a Filipino surname.
Dark-eyed and darker-haired, with scornful
curving lips, proud, as all Island women are,
of the white blood in her veins, she ruled the
roost as El Santa Beautissima in the little
palm-girt village where she lived. Madre de
Dios ! How brazenly the young bloods stared
on Sundays when, with grey old Mariano,
her father, chief politico of the village, she
passed into the old moss-grown Spanish
church which stood in the village square,
seared with the shocks of long-forgotten
earthquakes. And on those long, dreamy
Sunday afternoons, when the heat danced on
the sea and steam rose from the sugar-fields,
one would see her at the cockpit with Filippe
Aguillon, her betrothed, seated proudly in the
inner ring, watching the steel-spurred birds
that fought and died in quick succession until
the sun went down behind the palms.
One day she married Filippe, the Presi-
dente’s clerk. They asked me to the wedding
feast, and I sat —ye gods, what greatness!—
on the right hand of the fat old padre, florid,
merry-eyed, lisping between great gulps of
Val de Pinas the pure old Castillian tongue.
He had seen strange times —“Por Dios,
Senor” —in these troublous Islas Filipinas—
earthquakes and plagues, wild Moro raids
down in the Sulu Sea. And he would tell me
how once in Iloilo —but the Australia no
Senor wished to dance, and, Dios Sabe! life
was short!
I saw Dolores late that night leading with
Filippe a quaint old-fashioned Spanish dance.
She had red blossoms in her hair. Her
dress was a flowing gown of fine transparent
Jusi cloth, showing a silken skirt of rosy
pink beneath, and on her small feet there
flashed and twinkled a pair of pointed, heel-
less Chinelas of emerald green. Filippe, proud
in a spotless suit of white and shinv patent-
leather ’Mericano shoes with great “bumped”
toes held her hand and darted jealous
"■lances from black eyes I somehow hated.
Sli6 was too good-looking for a native g'nl*
Filione was too jealous and hot-blooded. iVnd
I knowing a little of the Island ways, felt
vaguely that the pair had turned into a
* U Thev' made 1 ' their home down in a little
house of nipa palm, right where the river
-loins the inland sea. deep in a giant bamboo,
clump. But gay Dolores loved the crowded
market place, where there were ahvays -eyes
envious eyes of women and woi shipping
eyes of men. And Filippe greyv restless and
sharp-tongued—so my “muchacbo” told me as
he cleaned my shoes. Thus things drifted on
until Smith came—Bondi Smith we called
him. for lie gave us Bondi, its salubrious air
and glorious ocean beach, etc-., each evening
for the length of two cigars.
Smith came as chief mechanic for a
Yankee mining plant up in the hills, and said
he’d left his wife and kids way down in
healthful Bondi. lie stayed four days, and
gave us his pitiless opinion of squaw-men
(white men who live with Filipino giiis).
Then he went on the last night to
the Presidente’s dance, met fair Dolores,
and straightway cast overboard his
godly principles. Filippe was at home
that night. I had seen him in the
morning, and he had told me he .had “much
fever of the blood. Senor, but Dolores
goes to the Presidente’s baile, for the Gover-
nor comes from Trinidad.”
Smith danced with Dolores until all tongues
wagged, and he said fool things to her in
broken Spanish until I cursed the year he
told us he had spent in Mexico and thereby
learned the tongue. I spoke to Dolores once
in native dialect, and tried to warn the girl,
but the tall Australian Senor seemed to hold
her very soul, for she only shook her head
and slipped away.
Bondi Smith’s blue eyes were bright with
wine and on his Hushed face there was a
heedless 100k —the look that afterwards be-
comes a fixture and denotes its wearer a
squaw man and a bino friend, and in the
end. a beachcomber.
A tall, lean Yankee turned ' to me and
drawled : “I guess your Mr. Smith won’t hit
the trail to Bondi now for quite a while.”
I thought so too, and, thinking hard, went
home to bed and left them drinking Val de
Pinas.
Next morning Smith departed for his mine
dull-eyed and silent. I thanked my stars
and hoped the steamy morning air, laden in
the village street w r ith many a doubtful
fragrance, would rid him of a little of the
Asiatic glamor that had fallen round him.
Filippe got worse —malaria held him fast
—and for two days Dolores was his most
devoted wife. Then suddenly she dis-
appeared—slipped off as silently as _ the
yellow moon slips down behind the little
atoll by the bamboo fish traps out to sea.
The village laughed, for the Filipino must
be hurt himself to understand a pain. But
Filippe, down in the nipa shack, raved like
a fiend.
Old Antonio Flores, the native medico,
shook his withered head and said to me:
“Ah, Senor, of women and the sea we men
know little'” Filippe raved on in English.
Spanish and his native tongue, but the
fever held him helpless, which pleased me
mightily, for I had heard that afternoon
that Dolores was with Bondi Smith up at
the mine.
My business took me there a few days
later, and I dined with Smith. Dolores,
brazen-faced, sat on the verandah-rail smok-
ing a long cigarette, and watched us as we
ate. Smith drank a lot and did not mention
Bondi, but gave the old excuse: “Every
man would be a squaw-man in the Islands
if he had the-courage”—which, of course, is
•rot. I spoke of Filinpe and bolos. but he
laughed aloud and said he slept with, open
doors. He was a reckless fool, and. pointing
out the fact. T went my way.
Old Antonio’s vile medicine, or perhaps
it was my genuine tablets, kept life in
Filippe’s hot blood, and lie began to mend
and talk a little sanely.
I waited, curious, for developments. Then
one hot day ho came to me.-thin as a shadow,
and J said that though he wished the Senor
Smith in Hell, yet he could keep Dolores,
for “Santa Maria ! was she not” — and here
be called her names in dialect that made
me squirm. “In Santa Barbara,” said he,
“was a fair flower whose glorious name was
Rosa Suarez, and there will I cast my love
before the fiesta of San .Tose.”
Next nivht I sat on my verandah watch-
ing the fireflies circling in myriads round
the breadfruit trees —sat late into the rest-
less night and pondered on the workings of
the native mind, wishing Dolores back in
her nipa house, and Bondi Smith, the weak
and irresponsible, home in his suburb by the
Sydney sea.
Then suddenly came voices and the sound
of shuffling feet, and through my banana
clump stalked out the tall, lean figure of the
Yankee mining boss. Behind him half a
dozen natives carried something on an army
cot.
Smith! One hand, the left, was gone,
and from bis eye back to his hair there was
an awful cut. Still be was alive, and when
the American doctor came next day he told
us he would pull him through. Round in old
Nariano’s house rose, hour after hour, wails
and weird mournings, for there, upon a low
bamboo cama. lay Dolores, killed with one
awful bolo cut. and hacked almost to pieces
after death. I went down to the village
and learned the tale from Filippe. He told
me he had lied to me that day. He bad
sneaked off to the mine and waited like a
shadow round Smith’s house until he thought
them both asleep. He wished to kill the
Senor Smith, but Dolores, “Por Dios, no!”
She had heard him, however, and had
screamed, and thrown herself on the need-
less carcase of Smith in time to catch the
full force of the bolo swing. Then in wild
fury lie had struck and struck again, and
rushing from the house had run right into
the arms of a sleepy native polieia. who
slopped him with his rifle. *
Last Christmas Eve I called on Bondi
Smith in his salubrious suburb beside the
Sydney sea. He sat among his kids and
beamed and . smiled, and Mrs. Bondi said
to me: “Oh. Mr. .Tones, to think that you
and Charlie fought side by side on that
awful night the natives rushed your house!”
Smith calmly sipped a cup of medium tea.
and as I gazed across the table at the great
long silvery scar that ran back to his hair,
there rose, two mental visions of a far-off
land. I seemed to see a penal farm down
in the SuTu Sea. Husking copra, in a bone-
less. endless way, sat Fflipne. and at the
gate the sun shone on the bright blade of
a bayonet. Then, dreaming on. I saw,
set in a tab patch of lank bogan grass, an
ill-kept little native cemetery, and slanting
all awry, stood in a lonely corner a large
wooden cross on which was written “Dolores
Ycmillon.” and underneath, in bolder letters,
“D.0.M.”
BROLCA.


Westinghouse Pumping Set
Direct Coupled “Westinghouse” Cross Oil Engine
and Centrifugal Pump.
A SELF-CONTAINED UNIT SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR—
1
s
IRRIGATION
and other work.
The Engine operates without
CARBURETTER or
VAPORISER, has no delicate
mechanism to get out of order,
and is automatically governed
and lubricated.
Write for Particulars to
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane. N S WjllSS
New Zealand Agents; Philips & Pike, Wellington. ’ r 2
ds
BOUNDER
SPECIAL
CUTTERS.
fd
For all classes of Repetition Work, tonguing and grooving, flooring and
lining, moulding and any special detail.
Can be adapted to any make of machine by means of adjustable bushings.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Brisbane: GORDON FASNE LTD. Melbourne: NOYES BROS.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF P
A7OU begin to
* look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyer’s
ďf
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and Restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON'T LOOK OLD.
THE FAMOUS
SCHEBLER
Carburetter
with Special Attachment
for FORD CARS
dsf
FORD OWNERS
can now have
a SCKEBLER
CARBURETTER
installed at a
minimum o f
expense, and
gain
MORE POWER,
SPEED and
FLEXIBILITY.
EASIER STARTING
QUICKER PICK UP
and
BETTER ECONOMY.
Price, as illustrated, £5lO -
Booklet and ail particulars from
SOLE AQENTS—
ROBERT C. SWAN & GO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE. Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all
cases of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
Price, 3/- ner box, or a course of S
Boxes for £l. Post free under
plain cover.
On Sale at all Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
Solomon
Solution
For Horses and Cattle
HEALS QUICKLY
“Yannathan, S. Gippsland.
“A fistulous swelling on my Horke
was reduced in about a week, after
using SOLOMON SOLUTION three
times only. A lot of discharge came
away and the wound healed quick-
ly. Now one cannot see it was
ever there.
"Since then I had a Cow badly
gored on the flank. In a few days
swelled about twice the size of a
man’s fist. I used SOLOMON
SOLUTION just twice and it healed
rapidly.”
(Signed) John MCKay.
Large Jars 5/- from Chemists, Stores
and Saddlers everywhere, or post free
for 5/6 from
SOLOMON COX & SON,
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne
L.R.W.
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
ƒ
X.
Sl**
LINES TO BE REMEMBERED
BEECHAM’S PILLS
ARE
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX
ds
SURE—SAFE— SATISFACTORY.
That sums up the wonderful moustache producer,
CAPILLARINE.
It develops the hair growth remarkably, and never fails to give satisfaction.
Does not cause skin troubles —cannot be detected in use —a proved success.
Apply at night before retiring—the result of a few applications will sur-
prise you.
SEND FOR A JAR TO-DAY—IO/6 JAR, post free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each, Post Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney
Established 30 Years.
śdf
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
RAM
RIFE
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL.
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile—
WRITE FOR FREE PLANS and BOOK.
2613 Trinity Bldg.
RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
d
Remington-
UMC.22 cali-
bre cartridges
have for years main-
tained an unblemished
record for accuracy. They
have the maximum pene-
trating power for their calibre.
They do not lead or foul the
barrel. It is a significant fact that
many famous shooters choose the
Remington-UMC .22’s for important
competitions. These cartridges have been
used in making the world's greatest records.
If you want to shoot accurately, to improve your
score, to get the best results for target or field shoot-
ing, follow the lead of these famous shooters and
choose the Remington-UMC .22 calibre cartridges.
Leading dealers the world over sell and recommend them.
Interesting circular on important com'petitions free upon request.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co., New York and London
JUST as much skill and care should be exer-
cised in making the .22 as in making any other
calibre. Large production frequently tends to
an imperfect product unless great care is exer-
cised. The maintenance of a high standard of
quality in .22’s involves rigid care in the se-
lection of raw material and eternal vigi-
lance as to inspection and testing. The
growth and ever increasing popularity
of small-bore rifle clubs have given
rise to a strong demand for .22’s
that are accurate, that have
penetration, and that at the
same time will not foul
the many splendid
rifles now being made
* for these clubs, or
the .22 calibre
rifles used for
general pur-
poses.
ďsf


THE “TRIUMPHATOR ”
ƒds
CALCULATING MACHINE
is the greatest TIME-SAVING, BRAIN-CAVING
and MONEY-SAVING device that has ever been
introduced to the Office World.
The only machine that always shows you the
actual fla'iu'es you are working with.
Illustrated Catalogue on application.
A. P. Greenfield 8 Co. Ltd.
189 George St.,
BRISBANE.
POWER TRANSMISSION
fsdfd
Economy in cost of installing as well as the daily
upkeep is what actuates the manufacturer in
selecting
DODGE Wood Split
Pulleys
for his plant.
They Cost Less than Iron or Steel Pulleys
and can be used on any line or countershaft service
in which regular leather belts are used.
Write for Price Lists. We are Sole Agents for DODGE line of Power-transmission.
PARKE & LACY GO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
It is the Power
Your Belt
Transmits
that
Counts..
m
sea
Jr
Be
Sure
and
Specify
DICK’S
BELTINO
Sole Agents
Jas. Hardie 8 Co
Circular Quay
SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE
Taneye Portable Oil and Benzine Engines
<3
Clayton & Shuttleworth Portable Steam
Engine.
ffis&si
liN
“r 7
Wolseley Crutching Plants
Munro Handy liaggrer Chattcutt^r.
DALGETY & COMPANY
MACHINERY AGENCIES:
TANGYES: Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Steam Engines, Boilers, Pumps of
all descriptions. Winches, Chain Blocks, Hydraulic Jacks, Screw Jacks, Bears, etc., etc,
CLAYTON. SHUTTLE WORTH : Portable Steam & Traction Engines, Steam Road Rollers, etc,
NICHOLSON & MORROW: “Union” Farm Implements, comprising Harvesters, Drills, etc.
WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines. MUNRO Chaffcutters and Saw Benches.
gam; milking .machines.
I
DALGETY & C9LTP,
==AGEIMTS.“-“=
MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY,
and all Branches.
Gall and Inspect Our
Pennies Saved on Every Frame Make You Dollars
Every Day.
It is a mighty small mill that
cannot use NEW BRITAIN
MACHINE CO.’S
DADOER with big advantage.
It* does work you have worried
out on a saw table, in one-tenth
the time, and with, oh! so little
effort.
Write or : ask for booklet now,
and learn how far back you are
in the progress parade.
We can supply from stock.
\
H. P. GREGORY <a CO.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS.
Nat Semi-Diesel Oil
MARINE OR STATIONARY.
Works on crude Residual Oil or Kerosene.
Most simple and economical. No Valves, Timing Gear or Water Spray.
Some prices for Marine Outfits, complete with Reverse Gears, Shafts
and Propellers.
DELIVERY FROM STOCK:
7h.p., £135; 9h.p., £143; 12h.p., £168; lSh.p., £200; 201i.p., £255;
24h.p., £300; 30h.p., £382; 40h.p., £5lO.
Sole Australian Agents :
Warburton, Fraraßi Ltd
307 RENT STREET, SYDNEY.
istea
SHEEP
SHEARING
MACHINE
śfd
DANCAR GEDYE & C 9
SYDNEY.
Australian Farm Implements.
Harvesters, Drills, Ploughs, Cultivators, Chaffcutters, Harrows, Saw Benches, etc.
Australian Farm Engines
For Chaffcutting, Pumping, Sawing, Hoisting, etc.
Manufactured by HUGH V . McKAY, Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine .
Branches ; Stanley St., South Brisbane ;27 George St. West, Sydney; 102 Spencer St., Melbourne ; 56 North Terrace, Adelaide.
“Sunshine Farm Implements,” 48 pages, handsomely illustrated, is worth having. Sent post tree on request. Write for it.
fds
FAIRBANKS-MORSE VERTICAL
Geared Kerosene Hoisting Engine.
The main parts of the engine are enclosed in a dustproof crank case. This keeps them free
from dust and grit, and protects them from undue wear. Inside the crank case is a bath of
lubricating oil. The main parts are in this way self-lubricating.
Consumption of Kerosene, about one-eighth of a gallon per H.P. per hour.
STOCK HELD BY AGENTS:
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Sydney & Melbourne
