

DEWAR’S ——THE WHISKY OF MANY MERITS.
••• - . - -
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
• —FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Secortd=hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N SW- MONT DE
C?
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
d 159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And at
*
Telephone: No. 225 Central.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
im
!IHH
n
im
m
m
181
IM
:c
umm
is
rnmm 5
m
tsa
i
QM
liHl
m
>• >:
110
HOBART.
T&ti
fjadley’s Orient jjoteL
RICHARDSON’S
1 ■
WINE and
SPIRIT STORES,
an< 1 SYDNEY,
BOTTLE, CASE or GALLON at Wholesale Price,
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING *V.
Guaranteed
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld .
117 YORK STREEf, SYDNEY.
BACON
dc
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
dsf
k
L
WHOSE
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
• .C-I
m
% ■
r
•’ -
,
construe
the silvertown
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE
RUBBER CO.,
—NEWCASI LE
010***,
DRINK
BECK’S LAGER BEER
%ts
Malthoid Roofing
Is THE Roofing par excellence. It does not crack, burn,
chip or rust. It is absolutely watertight, easy to lay,
long wearing. Freight on it is light. Let us send you
Booklets and Samples. What address ?
The Paraffine Paint Co. Challis House, Sydney
D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager. AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
V*»
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T ?
dsf
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY \J°
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
“QUEEN OF STATES”
BACON and HAMS.
QUEENSLAND CO-OP. BACON CO., LTD., BRISBANE.
H ELI DON SPA
The Helidon Spa Water Co„ in its extensive distribution, has
placed “ the rational water cure tf within reach of aIL
STARKEYS LTD., Agents ,
Phillip St., Sydney, and Red fern
The Bulletin
V01.35.—N0. 1770.]
[ Thursday, Jamiarv 15,1914.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOORS
(Postages shoivn
in parentheses.)
HOORE’S ALMANAC, 1914. 656 pages of invaluable information, 1/6 (Id.)
Hill: Round the British Empire, illus. 3/- (3d.).
Graham: A Hatchment. 3/6 (3d.).
Lecky's Democracy and Liberty, 2 vols. (cheaper
edition). 6/- (6d.).
Scot-James: The Influence of the Press <aa \
Boreham: The Luggage of Life 3/6 (3d / >-
Haser: The Sailors Whom Nelson Led ill ls 6/-
Regbie: The Weakest Link. 1/3 (9,1 \ , '
ro - v 'hie (Lady): From the Porch. 7/6 (3d.V.
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROPTY LTD
9 •>
238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
DEATH TO FLIES
and all Insects, Fleas, Bugs, Mosquitoes, etc.
MUSTDIE.
NEW NON POISONOUS POWDER,
<Vs & It,
the great insect destroyer.
rrm
df
B38?H
“MUSTDIE,” the Great Destroyer, is sold at
Chemists and Stores, in tins 9d. each, forwarded
post free on receipt of stamps by the Sole Agents,
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Chemical Co., Ltd.,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
FREE SAMPLE.—Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H.,
Box 1520, G.P.0., Sydney, for a trial tin, sent post
free.
The “MUSTDTE” Blower is recommended to be used because it is not only economical, but the
powder is distributed much more effectively, and it is to our interest that you should pet the best
results out of every ounce of this great Insect Destroyer. fg
The Red Page
December
A slump, both in quantity and quality,
occurred in our December sonnets. Of the
22 sonnets, or near-sonnets, sent in, few
were first-class. “Mater Familias” supplies
the one humorous touch, but her humor is
emaciated. L. Kenny’s metre rambles, and
her boots occasionally do not fit her feet, but
her final lines are interesting:—
What! that Death rustles in the whitened
grass?
Wheti her warm lap is filled with ripened
t sceds.
And it would be difficult to scan Alice Gore-
Jones’ final line: —
Dust upon the dead year’s funeral pyre
to fit it, without the risk of J smashing
things, into the sonnet’s metrical mould.
Three sonnets, from three competitors
well up in previous competitions, are all
that need our consideration; and the result
is such as to lead competitors, hitherto
unsuccessful, to try again, with January.
Duncan Brown gives us an idea: —
.x month of ships—From every Old-World
sea
Where Hunger broods with maw insatiate
And Winter hotels to starveling hordes the
great
Sad dirge of famine pangs, they seek the
free
Gifts of a kinder clime where wantonly,
In rich confusion at our every gate.
Our harvests are outspilled inviolate—
For that our own hands shape our destiny.
And all around our far-flung, unkissed
shores,
Whereon three noblest oceans loudly beat,
The singing message thro’ the aether runs,
A like in calm and when the wild gale roars,
To give direction where our nascent fleet
Shall train the thunder of its awful guns.
t Nina Murdoch, the winner of our last
November sonnet competition, tails off in
her final phrase, and throughout her imagery
is vague and listless.
A splendid maid, bareheaded in the light,
Whose warm, brown skin and hot, imperious
ways
Hold men enthralled and listless with amaze
To find such undimmed beauty in their sight!
Hut thrice seductive is she when at night
She flings aside the noontide’s shimmering
haze
And show’rs her scented tresses, all ablaze
With starry gems, down from the purple
height.
And now we see her wading through the
creek;
Now on the beaches gleaming in the curl
Of half-turned breakers; now with burnished
feet
Spurning the plains;—and yet we need but
seek
In scrub and gully for this radiant girl
lo find her drowsing, exquisitely sweet!
The winner is S. Elliott Napier (23 Queen-
street, Mosman), who twice before has come
second. This time he wins, owing to the
poor quality of the competition, with a son-
net not so worthy as those that twice got
him into second place. Yet in his octette
he indicates in language ductile and aDt the
main characteristics of our December; and
in his sestette he elaborates a cognate idea,
to which, however, he has not sufficient!v
led up. And his final two lines do not carry
out with sufficient force the antithesis sug-
gested by his preceding lines.
DECEMBER.
December's ruddy manhood marches o'er
The shibbled fields which , gravid by the sun ,
After long labor find their travail done
And gone the golden burdens that they bore.
The huddled herds seek out the shady store;
The peaches turn to amber, one by one;
The halcyon days of summer are begun
And sings the crested surf along the shore.
December, month of tears and tender tryst—
lhou varied true Epitome of Time! —
7 hine are the dying year and procreant
Earth,
The types of Dissolution and of Birth :
lhou bring'st the circling seasons to their
prime,
And mark’st the sacred coming of the Christ!
S. ELLIOTT NAPIER.
“Pelican” on Wells:
A voice in the wilderness of singularity protests
against The Bulletin's view of Wells. A wonderful
mind with original ideas clearly and dramatically
stated in his earlier books, he has degenerated in
later life into a writer of philosophical essays mixed
with a modicum of impossible romance, and charac-
ters that never were on land or sea. He puts the
niale thpught-process into the brains of his alleged
women, and makes them act according to reason.
And his own thinking has become as evolved as his
literacy style. A sentence quoted by The Bulletin
■ 98 a,KI t!lis Quite a homceopathic Wells’
dose. The trouble with Wells, Kipling, Shaw and
a bakers dozen of other bright minds is that in
later life they have become infected with the preach-
ing microbe. An irresistible impulse drives them
to the stump waving the brolly of dogmatic thought
as they understand it. “We must do this, or do
that Yet none knows better than Wells that the
world is evolving in its own sweet way, and regards
all preaching as so much wind. Present scribe
pointed this out to him; and Wells replied in a
long screed that no doubt pulverises me if I could
only read his awful fist. If The Bulletin has a
decipherer of hieroglyphics, may I ask his aid?
Three volumes of value to Australian
readers, the first issues of the new “Nation's
Library (Collins), are: Sane Trade-Union-
ism, by W. V. Osborne, of the famous “Os-
borne Judgment ; Modern Views of Educa-
twn in which the value of the Montessori
Method is appraised: and Eugenics, by
i>dgar ochlister, an informative treatment
of a great subject. The series promises
well.
The Anatomy of Love
Why do we love? What is it that makes
A love B and pass the rest of the alphabet
contemptuously by? And should A, having
fallen in love with B, marry her? And who
or what is to blame when A, having married
B, finds out that the divinity that he
thought was B is, after all, only somebody s
sister, and frequently somebody’s aunt? And
why doesn’t love last as long as marriage !
These “Woman’s Page” topics are ex-
pounded by Orme Balfour in Love and
Lovers (Laurie), with attempted scientific
precision, and some pleasant personal ex-
periences supplied by the author and his
friends.... and the problems remain un-
solved.
“The craving for a particular woman —
the mere physical sex craving—has been and
is for countless multitudes the whole of
love, its beginning and its end. Love is,
from this point of view, only a more per-
sistent and individualised kind of lust. I
am convinced that the vast majority of men
—including, I suspect, all the non-European
races —love only in this way. Some of the
fiercest and most enduring passions which
history records were of no finer texture.”
As for the qualifications necessary, beauty
in a woman is not needed, nor, for either
parties, is friendship an indispensable in-
gredient. “I do not think that modern
people are conscious of any real reverence
for their sweethearts. It is an attitufle ex-
perienced rather towards a white-haired
gentleman in a pulpit than towards a
sprightly girl seated on one’s knee. Married
men have ceased to expect reverence from
their wives.” The romantic man loves be-
cause he craves an audience, as Wells
lias shrewdlv pointed out. “Few women
scan men for the evidences of strength and,
vigo’\ A woman assures me that these
attributes in men are seldom matter for
admiration witii her sex.” Women prefer
the types normal to them. They detest the
pieturesoue and the eccentric —to them and
their standards.
“Most girls are frightened at finding them-
selves come alive. As likely as not she
will pretend not to recognise in her
pleasure in kisses and embraces the primi-
tive force which is the source of life. Nine
times out of ten the woman between 20 and
25 is consciously looking out for a husband,
and determines to keep a tight rein on her
passions and sentiments. She flirts with
quite a number of eligible young men about
the same time, and has an enviable knack of
discovering that she is in love with the one
who proposes to her. A man wants to marry
a girl because he loves her, and a girl is
willing to love a man who wants to marry
her.”
It is to be remembered that Orme Balfour
is not diagnosing the Australian girl. His
experiences were unfortunately confined to
the English female.
“Every man, except Stevenson’s anaemic,
tailorish persons (who are, perhaps,, the
bulk of the population of this country),
knows that anything may happen to him in
the sphere of the emotions. He knows he
is as liable as any other man to get into a
sordid amour with a housemaid, to figure in
the divorce court with his best friend’s wife,
or to elope with the governess. Therefore,
if he is wise and conscientious, he keeps a
vigilant eye on the currents of his tempera-
ment and the. possibilities of his relation-
ships. But the last thing the ordinary well-
bred Englishwoman will believe in is her
own humanity. She never says on reading
the report of a' scandal, ‘There, but for the
fear of Mrs. Grundy, go I, Jane Jones.’ ”
“The woman of many love affairs generally
regards the first very much as a seasoned
poet looks on his juvenile verses. She talks
of it affectionately, almost indulgently....
But few married women seem to treasure
very tenderly the memory of their first woo-
ing if by chance the wooer should have be-
come changed into the husband.”
As for “the time and the place,” our
guide suggests that a keen, exhilarating, but
not numbing wind, accompanied by steady
rain, will often arouse a degree of exultation
in a man or a woman ordinarily self-con-
tained and romantic. “Girls, like fish, rise
to the bait better in wet weather.” Yet there
is the “soft, moonlit summer night.” with
its many triumphs. Coming to minor acces-
sories,_ cigarettes, we are told, have an ex-
traordinarily exciting influence on some
women; while for men a factor is the dis-
turbing scent of powder. “At a ball 90 per
cent, of the men with whom a girl dances
can be trusted to make love to her. given
the smallest opportunity. Most men when
frank will explain this by saying
that there is an intoxicating quality which
seems to emanate from their partners’ bare
shoulders. This is nothin? more than powder
—violet or trefle incarnat.”
One wonders what excuse marriage has
toi intruding into a book solely devoted to
Jove, yet Orme Balfour devotes a chapter to
marriage and inconstancy. He finds that
mairiage, as an institution, has some claims
to usefulness to society: but he points out
that marriage dates from a time when l o ye
as we know it, was unknown, and the human
temperament very much less complex.
Mnally, he supplies this valuable explana-
tion of love: Me want the woman who lets
us see that she wants us”; and passionately
pleads for more Ann Veronicas. It will be
remembered that when Well’s hero bluntly
asked Ann. M hat do you want?” that
capable girl said “You!”
mI1 S: l h fu Amateur
nW ’ll ;'h B hnn bynch (Methuen, 50— a com-
plete illustrated account of the ignoble art.
A M.L. Bard
“Roslyn” (Margaret A. Sinclair) writes
pleasing M.L. verses. 'The Turret Captain s
Toast, and O.V. (Wilkinson, Auckland),
survives the cheap sentimentality of its title
verse. But the author has no great range,
and little inspiration. Pleasant fancies are
embodied in delightful, but careless, verse,
with here and there an apt local note.
’Tis hush of eve when one espies
The Kotuku, that lone outpost;
From raupo swamps the kiwi cries;
The geyser rises like a ghost ....
Oh, golden time! Sweet-scented hay
And wind that stirs the clover;
The pale blue sky just tinted grey,
The pearly haze far, far away,
And sunshine all things over! ....
But, when she essays larger themes, such as
her “Song of Empire,” she falls to bathos.
On far New Zealand’s fields
Rich ore the quartz vein yields;
Where never sun doth shine
Like trolls within the mine, '
The digger’s basso rings out true his loyal
lay, ‘’Red, white and blue.’’
Even in writing of the pohutukawa, IVLL.’s
Christmas tree, she contrives to say nothing
but that it ought to be more famous, without
herself making it more famous. She re-
mains, however, within her limits, and makes
the most of her limits, when she writes of
“The Cicada” or “One Sweet Morning.”
The former runs ;
Ilarlc! the elfin reveller,
So persistent thrumming —
“ February! February!
Autumn days are coming.’’
’Tis the fairy fiddler,
Though you cannot see him.
In the fir tree, or the pine —
Everywhere you hear him —
“ February! February !”
Airily lie’s thrumming,
“Follow me and merry be,
Autumn days K are coming.”
Hist, the elfin reveller,
While the heat waves quiver
On the eucalyptus green,
On the blue-grey river:
“Leave your lessons, leave your books,
Leave your ‘three-four’ strumming.
February! February!
Duller days are coming.”
0, the elfin reveller!
Summer’s restless darling.
Shrilling, where in dim, green tvoods,
Hide the dove and starling.
“ February! February!”
Evermore lie’s thrumming.
“Follow me and happy be,
Cloudy days are coming!”
With the breath of new-mown hay,
With the odor thrilling
0* the pine and gum-tree grey —
If your heart be willing —
Fast, when winter rains afall,
Red, when glows the ember,
When the Fairy Fiddler’s call,
Then shall you remember.
“February! February!”
(Through your brain still humming),
“Follow me and happy be,
Autumn days are coming.”
The Discussion-Drama
Shaw’s brilliant ’prentice work, The
Quintessence of Ibsenism, published 22
years ago, has long been out of print in
England, but, Shaw says, never out of
demand. There have been unauthorised
American editions, but in England the price
of a copy of the original edition is at least
fl 4s. When the book was issued, in 1891,
Ibsen was still alive, and had not yet pro-
duced The Master Builder, Little Eyolf,
John Gabriel Borkman or When We Dead
Awaken. Thus Shaw had really distilled
only the top layer of Ibsen. The book is
now completed to the death of Ibsen, and
published by Constable. The contention of
Dixon Scott that Shaw early stereotyped
himself is upheld by a re-reading of this
immature Shaw. For the immature Shaw
hasn’t aged. He could never age. for he
was never young. It is difficult to discover
any difference between the reprinted
opinions of the man of 35 upon the
early Ibsen plays and the opinions of the
youth of 57 upon the last four Ibsen dramas.
Shaw now finds a new technical factor
in the art of Ibsen —a factor, he declares,
which every considerable playwright has
been thrusting under the inattentive noses
of the critics night after night for a whole
generation. This novelty is the discussion.
Formerly in a well-made play the three
acts ran thus: Ist, Exposition; 2nd, Situa-
tion ; 3rd, Unravelling. Now the arrange-
ment is: Exposition, Situation, Discussion.
And the discussion is the test of the play-
wright. It is curious to note that Shaw
did not make this discovery in the first
edition of this book, for at that time he had
not discovered the discussion for his own
stage uses. Having frankly called one of
his later plays a discussion, he naturally
fathers the idea upon Ibsen, who is fortu-
nately dead. Yet the discussion, so pro-
minent a feature in the later Shavian
drama, needs no defence. If the drama is
to progress it must make use of new
methods and new moulds ; and a discussion,
upon the stage, in such skilled hands as
those of Shaw, can be finely dramatic. The
whole aim of that great urge of dramatic
reform known as the Repertory drama is to
shift the dramatic situations from the
realm of action to the realm of thought.
Whether the audience has kept up with the
dramatists is not entirely unquestionable;
but the growth of the Repertory audiences
• shows that the new type of discussion-drama
is appreciated by, at least, a special class.
But hear Shaw :
The critics protest in vain. They declare
that discussions are not dramatic, and that
art should not be didactic. Neither the play-
wrights nor the public take the smallest
notice of them.... Now the serious play-
wright recognises in the discussion not only
the main test of his highest powers, but also
the real centre of his play’s interest... .An
interesting play is a play in which problems
of conduct and .character of personal import-
ance to the audience are raised and sugges-
tively discussed. People have a thrifty sense
of taking away something from such plays:
tliev not only have had something for their
money, but they retain that something as a
permanent possession. Consequently none of
the commonplaces of the box office hold good
of such plays. In vain does the expeiienced
acting manager declare that people want to
be amused and not preached at in the
theatre; that they will not stand long
speeches; that a play must not contain more
than 18,000 words ; that it must not begin
before nine nor last beyond 11 ; that there
must be no politics and no religion in it;
that breach of these golden rules will drive
people to the variety theatres; that there
must be a woman of bad character, played by
a very attractive actress, in the piece....
All these counsels are valid for plays in
which there is nothing to discuss... .People
will stand anything as soon as they are
matured enough and cultivated enough to be
susceptible to the appeal of a dramatist’s
particular form of art. The difficulty at pre-
sent is that mature and cultivated people
do not go to the theatre, just as they do not
read penny novelettes ; and when an attempt
is made to cater for them they do , not re-
spond to it in time, partly because they have
not the habit of playgoing, and party because
it takes too long for them to find out that
the new theatre is not like all the other
theatres....
Accordingly, we now have plays, including
some of my own, which begin with discus-
sion and end with action, and others in
which the discussion interpenetrates the
action from beginning to end. When Ibsen
invaded England discussion had vanished
from the stage; and women could not write
plays. Within 20 years women were writ-
ing better.plays than men; and these pia.vs
were passionate arguments from beginning
to end. The action of such plays consists
of a case to be argued. If the case is un-
interesting or stale or badly conducted or
obviously trumped up, the play is a bad
one. If it is important and novel and con-
vincing, or at least disturbing,' the play is a
good one... .
In the new plays, the drama arises
through a conflict of unsettled ideals rather
than through vulgar attachments, rapaci-
ties, generosities, resentments, ambitions,
misunderstandings, oddities and so forth as
to which no moral question is raised. The
conflict is not between clear right and
wrong; the villain is as conscientious as
the hero: in fact, the ouestion which makes
the nlay interesting (when it is interesting)
is which is the villain and which the hero.
Or. to nut it another way, there are no
villains and no heroes.
•
“Think of this —there is a new dance, over
which the world has gone crazy !. . . . Having
been once adopted by Society, this dance has
made the tour of the Continent in
one season. .. .Young people, who always
dance, are ecstatic about it, and old people,
who have not danced for years, have begun
to dance again on its account. All share the
excitement. It arrived in London only some
few months ago—it is now all over the
country.” The tango? No. The quotation
is from Hardy’s The Romantic Adventures
of a Milkmaid , in the recent collection of his
short stories, and the dance thus enthusi-
astically described is—the polka.
British and Colonial Dairying, (Lock-
wood and Son. London), by G. Sutherland
Thomson, an acknowledged British expert,
deals exhaustively with all subjects connected
with St. Cow, the patron saint of this Com-
monwealth. The references to Australasia are
frequent—probably one-third of the matter
deals with our local conditions. But the
usual objection must be made to the title:
we are no longer colonists.


vee
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for SILVERWARE SATISFACTION
Consult our Illustrated Price List of ELECTROPLATED WARE, CUTLERY and CLOCKS. Write
for a copy, post free on request; it places selections from the immense variety we offer at the
command of everyone in Australia.
nnr
riHr
nr
n
No. Cx34.—D i n ne r Cruet,
Electro Silver-plate on Nickel Sil-
ver, with 4 Cut Glass Bottles, 20/-
No. 1049.—Entree Dishes,
oblong shape, Electro Silver-plate
on Nickel Silver, 10in., choice de-
sign 77/0 pair
No. Cx29.—Cut Glass But-
ter Dish and Knife, Elec-
tro Silver-plate on Nickel Sil-
ver 8/C
No. 1047.—Entree
Oval, Electro-plate on
ver, lOin
Dishes,
Nickel Sil-
-57/6 pair
No. Cx7.—Cut Glass Jam
or Honey Jar, mounted
Hlectro Silver-plate on Nickel
Silver, with 5p00n.... 19/-
No. Cx9. — Teapot, Electro Silver-plate on
Britannia Metal, embossed design.... 20/-
wsx
No. Cx23. Biscuit Box, Electro Sil-
ver-plate on Britannia Metal, fern de-
sign 45/-
No. Cx27.—-Dinner Cruet, Elec-
tro Silver-plate on Nickel Silver, 4
Crystal Glass Bottles .. . .... 22/-
No. Cx3o.—Sugar & Cream Stand,
Electro Silver-plate on Nickel Silver —:
32/6
No. Cxl2.—Cake Basket, Electro Silver-
plate on Nickel Silver, Chased design, 22/6
No. CxlB. Inkstand, Electro Silver-plate on Britannia
Metal, engraved design 30/-
No. 1029.—Afternoon Tea Spoons and Tongs, Electro
Silver-plate, in Silk and Plush-lined Case 10/-
Various Other Designs from 8/- to 19/-
No. Cx32.—L unch
Cruet, Electro Silver-
plate on Nickel Silver,
with 4 Out Glass
Bottles 21 /-
No. Cx2s.—L unch
Cruet, Electro Silver-
plate on Nickel Silver,
with 4 Cut Glass
Bottles .... 14/-
No. Cx2l. Inkstand, Electro Silver-plate
Metal, engraved Glass Flower Vase
Britannia
52/6
7
No. Cxll. — Flower Stand, Electro Silver-
plate on Nickel Silver, pretty design.. 40/-
Postage must
be added to
the prices
quoted.
Price List of
Electroplate
post free on
request.
No. Cx22. Cake Basket, Electro Silver-
plate on Nickel Silver, embossed design 30/-
No. Cxls. Waiter, Electro Silver Plate on
Nickel Silver, engraved design, length, 14in.—
32/6
No. 1034.—Afternoon Tea or Cake Forks,
Electro Silver-plate on Nickel Silver, half-dozen, in
Silk and Plush lined Case, with Ivory Handles 17/6
Without Case, half-dozen 12/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKneld Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


■
VJ
w
SS
=SX=
E 3
TRADE MARK
Rifle and Pistol
CARTRIDGES
Winchester Cartridges are
made in all calibers for all F
v.
kinds of rifles, revolvers and IjM
pistols. They are loaded with
smokeless and black powder
and various kinds of bullets.
From the tiny .22 to the big
.50 caliber they shoot uniformly
and accurately. They are
always effective for small
game, big game, dangerous
game, target practice or pro-
l\ tection. Winchester Car-
| tridges may cost a few cents
i, more over the counter, but
(
p- any difference in price is
more than made up by their
superior quality and general
reliability. Insist upon having
Winchester make, and
LOOK FOR TIIF
ON THE BOX.
ASTHMACURE
6RIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immedintely
relieved by GRIM AULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
\ ETTKS. Sold by all Chemists.
Over 100 Awards
in Open Competition
during the last few months have been won on
B.S.A.
31 h.p. Motor Bicycles
often beating high powered machines
up to 8 h.p.
Copy of Telegram recently received :
"B.S.A, 3% h.p. fastest on time and formula, beating 8 h.p.
twins. Tunbridge Wells and District Club Speed Trials.”
Carey.
Copy of Letter recently received :
"In the unlimited class. Blackburn M.C.C. Hill Climb, the
B.S.A. 3% h.p. beat several higher powered Motor Cycles,
including 8 h.p. twins.” H. Walsh.
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you’ll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
tin now. 1/6, posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist.
2] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane,
d
Catalogue and full partic-
ulars of B.S.A. Motor
Bicycles post free from
D. Y. RENNIE.
(representine B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY HORPCRN <&. SONS LTP.
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Kent Brewery, Sydney
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd./Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
m
1
A road like this
feels like this
if you ride a Brooks “ Releasesaddle. This is a
model designed for ease before all things. It has long
springs arranged hammock fashion and as these permit
free movement both front and back the rider “floats’
over the worst roads. It is a revelation in comfort.
BROOKS
OF ALL
DEALERS
■
'/ i
Miss A. M. Cardwell
one of the most brilliant
teachers of the N. S. Wales
Educational Service for over
30 years—who has now re-
tired—and who has filled
some of the highest posi-
tions in the Public School
Service, writes her emphatic
opinion of
CLEMENTS
- - TONIC - -
Miss Cardwell writes from her private residence, “Cg
Annandale , Sydney: —
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.,
“I have very great pleasure in testifying to Clements Tonic as a
builder-up when in a run-down condition.
“When teaching in the State schools of New South Wales I many
times resorted to its use, taking one to three bottles in course.
“The ever constant strain on the nerves of a Public School teacher
soon brings on a low state of the whole system. In my case it was over-
strain in teaching and mental worry through family bereavements. See-
ing Clements Tonic advertised, I tried one small bottle, and feeling much
benefit got the larger size. It was such a restorative that whenever I felt
the least run-down, it never failed me. No household should be without
it, or fail to use it in any case of over-strain, for I feel sure it will have
the desired effect. You may publish this letter. „
“Gratefully yours, A. M. CAPDY ELL.
This medicine is unequalled for relief of Insomnia, Mental \\ orry, Indi-
gestion, Sick Headache, Constipation or Anarnia. All chemists and stores
sell it everywhere throughout the Commonwealth. Get it and get well.


DON’T NEGLECT
I YOUR HAIR
Your looks demand that you
should take care of it, make
it more beautiful, more lus-
trous, softer; you can easily
and readily do so by using
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR
I OIL I
which nourishes, strengthens,
nurtures, and promotes the
growth of Fine Silky Hair;
you will notice an improve-
ment from the first time you
use it. Use it for your own
and your Children’s Hair;
Golden Colour for Fair Hair.
Sold in three sizes by Stores,
Chemists, and Rowland’s,
67, Hatton Garden, London.
Avoid cheap imitations under
the same or similar name.
WORLD’S CYCLE RECORD
Est. 25 yrs.' i
M. Planes on a 7 year old British-made All-
Steel MEAD MODELE SUPERBE
‘COVENTRY FLYER 9
Rode 34*366 Miles in 366 Days
(officially authenticated'. Beat over 650 com-
petitors on up-to-date cycles.
MEAD CYCLES STAND THE TEST.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Dunlop Tyres, Variable-Speed Gears, etc.
Latest
Models
£3-10 to £9
Direct from factory, Packed Free, Carriage
Paid to your port. Ten Days’ Free i rial.
Motor Cycles and Cycle-Cars at Factory
Prices, Write for Free Art Catalogue,
and Marvellous Offers. Agents Wanted.
ova mi
CYCLE COMPANY,
(Dept. A 282 ), LIVERPOOL,
AGENT for MEAD
** VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade,
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND.
CYCLES —
Melbourne.
ALL MODELS
HIMROD'S
ASTHMA POWDER
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be* suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough— you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold m Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
The greatest sports-
man of the last
century, Colonel
Peter Hawker, had
complete confi-
dence in Eley Car-
tridges. In his Diary'
(1802-1853) are
many references to
them. Here is one:
"I killed all I saw, thanks to
ELEY Cartridges, with which I
made such a succession of long
shots as I never saw in one day.’ 1
We have been manufacturing
ammunition since the early
years of the last century, and
NO ammunition manufacturer
or loader handles o: loads a
greater variety of shot gun
powders, consequently our
experience of the styles of
powders and of the specifica-
tion of loads which give the
greatest satisfaction to sports-
men, is second to none.
Eley Cartridges are obtainable from all
Gunmakers Ammunition Dealers.
Agent: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
WHOLESALE ONLY:
ELEY BROS..L™
LONDON.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAI
ture of The Lone Hand no
city or country should miss.
is a fea-
woman in.
MOSS
RUNKENNESS Cured.
n
J Aiiv lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It total'y eradicates all craving: for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
This Book is worth many
Pounds to Sufferers from
VARICOSE VEINS.
VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM. Mackay, Queensland.
Dear Sirs. —I shall never regret the day I
decided to follow your advice, as I don’t believe I
shall he troubled again with Varicose Veins. Your
splendid treatment restored my legs to their normal
state, and they are free from pains, aches or
blemishes, and it is all due to your wonderful treat-
ment. Thanking you for your kind and business-
like methods while treating me.
I remain, yours truly,
WIEEIAM S. LORD.
If you suffer from Varicose Veins or Ulcers, or both,
I believe that I can completely cure you. I have treated
hundreds of terrible cases with the utmost success, and I
know that' but very few cases are really incurable when
properly treated without operations.
Very few doctors tell you they can cure this trouble.
They prefer to ignore it. Doctors could not cure me. I
cured myself. I then cured my friends, and then made,
hundreds of new friends by curing people who had suffered)
in some cases for a quarter of a century. Hence I believe
I can cure you.
BOTTLE AFTER BOTTLE-
of “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss” goes forth on its
mission—that of curing Coughs and Colds. You
can rely on each one doing its duty faithfully.
IT IS A REAL CURE FOR
COUCHS, COLDS, BRONCHITIS, CROUP,
WHOOPING COUCH, SORE THROAT,
SORE LUNGS, LOSS OF VOICE, INFLUENZA
DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING.
and all these kindred ailments of the throat and lungs.
Do not be misled by worthless imitations. Take only—
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
OF 40 YEARS FAME.
FREE F°«
30 PAYS
\ VI
••'ST 1 sJfc^k*
MR. G. VECSEY.
It will pay you well to fully investigate my method. M.y treatment is applied a't your own
home, and does not require you to lay up, and is painless and harmless. The worst eases usually
respond inside the first few weeks, and old, stubborn cases are perfectly cured under a suitable
course of treatment.
Give me full details of your case. If I can cure you I will say so, and send you a guarantee.
If I cannot, I will at once advise you. You run no risk. Let, me send you grateful letters from
hundreds of satisfied and happy patients. Lack of space prevents their inclusion here.
ADVICE FREE. FREE BOOK. DIAGNOSIS FREE.
I want you to learn all about my method. Send 2d. stamp l for Free Book, giving full par-
ticulars. Written Diagnosis FREE. If you suffer, write me to-day. (1831)
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUH, 3103 Ash St., Sydney
THE CAN-MAKING INDUSTRY!
SANITARY—SIMPLE
EFFECTIVE—RAPID.
The Entire Top Open.
an
O©o
m
C NTERPRISING PRESERVE OANNERS in every part of the world
have come to realise that the old, slow, unsanitary method of
manufacturing and sealing cans by hand with poisonous solders is ob-
solete.
That is why the MAX AMS SANITARY CANNING MACHINERY
is being used by the world’s leading canners. If you are using cans
ior packing preserves, fruits, vegetables, or in fact any food product, the
SANITARY, SOLDERLESS, HERMETICALLY SEALED CANS
made by these machines will save you time, money and labor.
j-^ o ’ T °' Automatic Double Seamers will seal can tops on
bodies 1 Jin. high and 2in. in diameter up to 1 gallon and over. The
scope in the range of possible changes is instantly appreciated.
No adjusting or fussing, or mechanical skill required. Can be run
by boy or girl.
These machines are BY NO MEANS confined to any PARTICULAR
CLASS of cans. The operation of these Seamers is SIMPLE. The
ar ? automatically conveyed to the baseplate with the cover, and
INSTANTLY the CAN engages the rollers, making a CLEAN and tight
DOUBLE SEAM.
We Furnish Complete Outfit for Making These Cans.
For full particulars write to the
MAX AMS MACHINE CO.
MT. VERNON, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
OR THROUGH ANY EXPORT COMMISSION HOUSE.
Tobacco
Kills!
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
ssi
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, ' The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR (Kb CO.,
Dept. G,
107 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY. [4.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is. in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY.
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women Ar children,
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collina-st., Melbourne, Vic.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since i«cg6.
_ , „ CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
c Oiemist for its history—the book is free—or writo
•N f 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
Ask
a.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the Train.
I do not even know your name,
Nor do I wish to know it;
But still, I love you just the same,
Although I dare not show it.
Another’s letter marks your book,
From other hands that ring you took ;
But still I love your every look,
Although you do not know it.
I see you in the early train
Each morning that I catch it;
And take a look at you again,
Whenever I may snatch it.
It pleases me your dainty nose
To watch, and ponder on your clothes ;
I like that tender, crimson rose,
And love the lips that match it.
I study how your things are made
(Though too polite to show it) ;
I gaze upon that cunning braid,
And wonder did you sew it.
I like you in your navy-blue,
And in your heather-mixture, too ;
In fact, I love you through and through,
Although you do not know it.
VICTORIA.
SPASM.
Fairyland.
Some poets dream of where their grave may
be ;
Some muse upon the place where they
were born;
Some sing of “home, sweet home” per-
sistently ;
And others sigh for “faerylands forlorn.”
I sing to-day, to-morrow, yesterday,
And here, and there, and yonder, with no
care
For this or that or t’other, but the way
That leads from nowhere out to anywhere.
• Here is not here except when lam here;
Nor is it anywhere, except for her;
• "tvt now I s only now when she is near ;
Nor, while she’s errant, care I where I err.
I sing, or lam silent; I am blest
To have no other speech, but, from all
things,
Todrink in music and the soul of rest,
Through all the mazes of our wanderings.
And, as I sing, I am—a nothing, blown
Into and through by whatso winds may
• come;
Owning all earth and all in her, my own—
My spirit’s birthplace, fairyland and home.
MAJOBCA.
WAIF.
Operation.
I know she is not there. With blind, hot
eyes
Turned to the ceiling through the ether
choke,
But far where drifts a cloud crisp in the
skies
As fine as feathery plumes of summer
smoke,
The soul, which is herself, takes flight a
space
A rainbow thing of many a woven grace.
I know she is not there. Where nurses
stand—
The old absorbed, the young a trifle sick—
Ur where the keen-eyed surgeon, knife in
hand,
Makes the first thin red trail, the upward
snick
On her white bosom, azure veined and bare,
I am cannot find her, for she is not there !
But in that little green and tinkling dell.
Where every dancing leaf sings health and
Spring,
The fine, dry grassy nest we knew so well,
bhe moves as gently as a light bird-wing.
And laughs her mockery, from the bough
oerhead,
At that limp thing upon, the table spread.
They fling the window open for the air.
Outside a tamarind grows, a dark-stemmed
tree;
But though the world look in she should not
care,
The drug-tide drowns her quivering modesty,
As, half reluctant from unfettered flight,
Her soul slips back into her body’s white.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Land of Growing Old.
This is the land where the pilgrims rest
Pilgrims bound for the Great Unknown;
Some of them. passing the hours in rest,
Others reaping the seed they’ve sown.
This is the land we know so well,
Where hair grows white and blood grows
cold.
Have you never heard the old folks tell
Of the dun, grey Land of Growing Old?
King and beggar, vassal and lord,
Scholar and clown, and one and all
Must catch a glimpse of Death's keen sword
Awd gaze for once on his figure tall;
Silent he rides, a sombre knight;
He fears no man, be he e’er so bold;
But, with his sword-blade keen and bright,
He ranges the Land of Growing Old.
It lies in a vale (so I’ve heard said)
That winds for ever through Hills of Time.
Some of the land is all waste and dead,
Some is decked with flowers sublime.
There’s a beaten track that leads away
Through ranges tipped with sunset-gold,
From the merry land where the children
play,
Into the dusk of Growing Old.
Prince and pauper, sinner and saint,
Each of them all of them .... ev’ryone,
When the call comes, without complaint,
Must take the track till the goal be won;
And if the goal be far away,
Deep in the shadows where all is cold,
Then God grant we may longer stay
In the peaceful twilight of Growing Old.
VICTORIA.
BURNETT GRAY.


'(She
2X5
COMFORT
of
Your
HOME
depends upon the furniture you buy and put into it. You can. make your home
appear, and really be. comfortable and charming, by purchasing your furniture
from MARCUS CLARK’S. Ji’or quite a small sum we can furnish your home com-
pletely with simple, durable and comfortable furniture, while if you wish to furnish
a mansion throughout elaborately, we are ready to offer yon the most luxurious
and highest-grade furniture it is possible to obtain.
THE “DON” SUITE is
one of the most convenient
and elegant suites you can
buy for such a low price—
£lo/17(6
—in well-seasoned wood.
1
V $
Consisting of: — 3ft. Wardrobe, best, bevelled plate mirror, 1 long drawer; 3ft.
Washstand, double tiles, pedestal cupboard, shelf on top; 3ft. Beaconsfield Com-
bination Chest, 4 drawers, bevelled mirror. Fitted with best “En Suite” oxidised
fittisngs.
Order your Furniture from Marcus Clarkfs and gain Comfort and Satisfaction.
MARCUS CLARK & CO. Ltd.
Railway Square, Sydney.
II!
BIS
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may he secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
mmm
The Accordeon with
MELLOW TONE
Is just perfection for Song Accompaniments, Dance Musfo
and Picnics. The Organ-liUe Tone of these Instruments
is attained by the use of Bell Metal Reeds, which are hand-
fitted and tuned.
THREE POPULAR MODELS.
THE ORGAN TONED MELBA
3 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, post free.
THE DANCE KING
4 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-. post free
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15A. post free
OTHER MODELS FROM 7/6 TO 40/-
For Free Catalogue No. 9 write to—
fsd
”276 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE,
and also at Bendigo and Geelong.
A'
f r
LAGER
Possesses distinctive qualities—it
is a delightfully refreshing, in-
vigorating and nourishing Lager
—valuable as a food for Nursing
Mothers, Invalids, etc—apart from
its high-grade merit as a light
beverage.
OBTAINABLE at all FIRST-CLASS
CLUBS, HOTELS, RESTAURANTS,
etc.
T,
0
WgfW,/;
ffis' f/.v
K
• w
W
P<
270 George Street, Sydney.
63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Perdriau
Motor
Tyres
f Australian Made).
Revised Price Lists on
Application.
Manufactured by —
Perdriau Rubber Co., Ltd.
105 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
307 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
V v
Old and Young
Both old and young like to feel that what
they do is well done, and whether the
Linoleums and Furniture are polished by
cither the feeling is secured if Shi-
Noleum is used.
Shi-Noleum gives wonderful satis-
faction, it gives such a fine finish to the
Floors, and it is so easy to use that it never
fails to please.
BEWARE OF IMITATION Z.
fsd
fsd
Skilled labor at its lowest
cost does not commence to
compete with AJAX Forging
Machines in quantity or
quality of work. —
fs
I&lllltt'l
These illustrations show a few of the forgings that can be made on
AJAX machines as fast as two men can handle the stock.
Ajax Forging Machines are strong and positive in action with exclusive
timing and safety devices. They operate without shock or jar.
If you make duplicate forgings we can save you money. An investment
in AJAX Forging Machines pays big dividends.
Send us sketches or blue prints of your work and we will tell you just
how much the AJAX can increase your production and decrease your
costs of manufacture.
WE STOCK THESE MACHINES.
BENSON BROTHERS, LIMITED,
Sole Agents for Australasia,
Full Stock of all Classes of Engineers’ Machine Tools,
51-53 Druitt Street,
SYDNEY.
60 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 35. —No 1770.
THURSDAY. JANUARY 15, 1914.
Price 6d.
THE PURSUIT OF HAPPINESS.
The Pursuing Figure is Premier Holman, of N.S.W. The nude retreating person with the lantern requires no explanation.
The place they are both going to requires even less explanation.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TEI.EI’HONES : City 2389.
City 2390.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. . . ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. .. .. 013 6
Quarterly .. .. 070
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings Sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Eetters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, Tiie Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Eetters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
aritstie contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —'Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co.. San Francisco; Quaker
Neivs Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan. 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Itandolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street.
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — lV. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland. Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at
1116 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in.
x lljin., and gelatine transparencies will be for-
warded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired.
Postage Kates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—Throughout the Commonwealth. Neiv Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 160 z., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., Bioz.
to 10oz., 21 d.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d. ; elsewhere, l/oz.,
Id., and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 1914.
THE GATE OF COLOR AND THE
GATE OF SHEOL.
There are nigger wars at this pleasant New
l r ear season, and semi-nigger wars, and
rumors of nigger wars. There are colored
complications which have not yet come to
actual war. The great half-breed smash in
Mexico is almost endemic, but a country
which once had 260 revolutions in half a cen-
tury has become accustomed to excitement.
There is a row because the Hindu has got
into South Africa, and a still more violent
row because he is kept out. There is the
Hindu problem in such places as Fiji and
Mauritius, where the white man is perishing
before his cheaper and less wholesome
brother; but these are chronic troubles. So
is the nigger problem in the southern part of
the United States. Comparatively new
harassments are the Japanese penetration of
Hawaii, which is the half-way pub between
Australia and California; the dreams of
Japanese colonisation in Mexico and Brazil;
and the threatened abandonment of the
Philippines by Uncle Sam’s Government,
which deed, if it is done, will remove a very
big fortification from the brown man’s road
southward. And there are other black annoy-
ances, and brown annoyances, and brownish
aggravations.
* * * *
It is folly to assume that the White Aus-
tralia question has been settled by our Fed-
eral legislation. No question is ever quite
settled unless all the parties are agreed and
God gives unlimited bail that they won’t
change their minds. The White Australia
question is really as much alive as it was
20 years ago—perhaps more so. This coun-
try has four enemies within its gates. One
is the Tory (an obscure person nowadays)
who wants cheap colored labor. Another is
the person (he is sometimes the same per-
son and sometimes a different one) who is
maddened by the Imperial idea, and thinks
that the Flag, which is calico, amounts to
everything, and the Race, which is perma-
nent and the source of all greatness, counts
for nothing. He holds in a general way
that any dwarf or cannibal who happens to
bo annexed in any remote part of the globe
shodld have the run of the Empire because
of the annexation and the calico. banner. . A
third disaster is the crazed philanthropist,
or so-called Socialist, or Red Federationist,
or Industrial Worker of the AVorld, who
reckons that all toilers, even if some of
them are but one remove from monkeydoin,
are brethren. And a fourth is the theorist
who opposes British immigration; who
believes in importing goods instead of the
men who make goods ; who fancies that there
is abundance of time to garrison the empty
spaces; and refuses to realise that the world
is filling up very fast, and that the com-
munity which holds a fertile empty space
is more liable every day to find an argu-
ment on its hands. These are the foes of
White Australia inside Australia. Out-
side there is the multitudinous colored party
who says that he is as good .as any other,
and demands, while he leaps in fury on his
turban, to be treated accordingly. Also
there is the British Government which runs
a mostly-colored empire, and probably con-
siders it beyond reason that it should be
expected to keep its colored popujation out
of an allegedly white country, which makes
no sufficient effort to supply itself with ade-
quate white defence. So the White Aus-
tralia question is settled —until somebody
unsettles it; just as Constantinople was
settled for ever and a day as the centre of
the Greek Empire, until, on a certain day,
Asia came and burst up the old arrangement.
* * * *
There is a depressing fringe to the white
man’s land, and its existence ought to teach
Australia that the preservation of the purity
of the white race is worth a great deal more
sacrifice than has yet been made. Wherever
the white man has degenerated badly it is
possible to trace the colored admixture. The
Spaniard and Portuguese never quite re-
covered from the Moorish conquest, and
with that streak of color in their veins they
presently began to show signs of sagging
behind their contemporaries. The Portu-
guese got into the fashion of importing
cheap African labor, and he became a
mulatto, and sagged still further behind.
The mixed Spaniard and the very much
mixed Portuguese still further adulterated
their blood with that of colored races in
South and Central America, Cuba and else-
where, and out of the grandest people in
Europe was evolved in these new countries
a squalid, slipshod race which isn’t at all
like its fathers. The most prominent rea-
son why the Roman of to-day isn’t the old-
time Roman is that the people intermarried
with colored slaves and other dubious ele-
ments. The Russian, though he is a white
man, isn’t exactly in the van of affairs ; but
then, unfortunately, Tartar invasions, cul-
minating in a Tartar conquest, made him
just sufficient of an Asiatic to handicap him
in the struggle. He didn’t lose his white
color, but he lost some of his white charac-
teristics. Austria can hardly be said to be
the brightest and most shining light of
European progress, but then the country was
afflicted of old with scrappy Asiatic inroads,
and a great part of the empire was for many
years under Asiatic rule. The Eurasian
or mulatto section of Europe is distinctly
the worst section. The worst section of
America consists of those republics which
were settled by the Spaniards and Portu-
guese with their infusion of Asiatic and
African blood, and where a new admixture
of negro, Aztec, Toltec, Carib and sundries
further adulterated the blood. The purely
colored man’s country drifts behind in civi-
lisation, wealth and progress, which is the
reason why the Louvre is at Paris instead
of Timbuctoo. and the great centres of
science are in Britain, France and Germany
rather than about Gabul. And the mixed
races lag behind according to the extent of
their mixture, wherefore the Portuguese is
behind the Spaniard, and the Mexican is
further back, and the Cuban is in the rear
rank, and the Haytian tails at the end of
all things carrying the baggage and the last
possibility in the way of ignorance.
* * * *
Incidentally the worst section of the
United States—generally regarded . as a
white man’s republic—4s the one with an
extensive black population and an old-estab-
lished reliance on cheap black labor. As an
example of low-priced servile labor the South
was unique. At the. time of the first U.S.
census (1790), when the trouble was still
young, the black labor section and the white
one were equal in area, but the former was
the richer and the more populous, It had
the larger trade, and to a great extent it
ran the political show. It furnished eight
out of tha first dozen Presidents. Those
were the early days, when the Uncle Tom
disease was just taking root. In 1860. im-
mediately before the war. the black labor
States were more than 100,000 square miles
larger than the white labor States. But
the population of the white labor region was
19,000,000. against 8,000,000 in the cheap
nigger country; and the former produced
every year ten times as much value as the
latter in manufactured goods. Also the
comparatively small North was estimated to
be worth eleven billion dollars, while the
comparatively large South had property,
apart from the value of human flesh held in
bondage (which couldn’t fairly be taken into
account unless the worker of the North was
also capitalised), worth two and a half
billions. Uncle Tom had come home to
roost. High-priced white labor and low-
priced, ignorant, servile, incapable black
labor had run a race under the same Govern-
ment and with all the natural advantages
in favor of the black, yet the color scheme
had lost.
* * * *
How badly it had lost the great Civil
War presently revealed. If, after that dis-
aster, the ruined South could have got rid
of its colored man and started life afresh it
might have put things right. But unfor-
tunately the African had come to stay. By
comparison with the white States the South
is still poor, unlettered and backward. It
is still more or less of a disgrace there for
the efficient white to work, and the black,
by his inefficiency, keeps industry back. The
point in which Arkansas and Louisiana are
ahead of Mexico is that a larger section of
the superior race has kept its blood fairly
pure. All the Southerner has lost is the
greater part of his old-time share of wealth
and political influence, which is bad enough.
The Spaniard in Mexico has lost both of
these, and most of his dignity as a white
citizen to boot. For even Solomon in all
his bigamy was not married like one of these.
* * * *
The purport of this parable is that our
country wants a White Australia movement
—a live one, not a relic that is taken for
granted. It is some years now since this
Commonwealth passed the present Exclusion
Law, and then sat' down, and heaved a long
sigh of relief, and lighted its pipe, and said
that a good deed was accomplished. But
no colored person gave his cordial assent to
the Exclusion idea then, nor has a single
one burst into spontaneous applause about
it since. The agreement is wholly one-sided.
Again, the British Government gave only a
grumpy and reluctant assent. Its attitude
more than hinted that, though it was pre-
pared to let things stand while no active
trouble was involved, it might reconsider its
position later on. That is to say, if a time
comes when Britain must either quarrel with
the Indian who constitutes more than half
the Empire’s population, and possibly with
Japan and .China to boot, over this matter,
or must coerce a feeble and ill-prepared Aus-
tralia into revising its White doctrine, the
whole matter may be re-opened. To put the
position shortly, Britain has become no less
non-committal, and the adjacent colored
peoples have grown no more reconciled, while
they have also become a great deal more
numerous. And Australia, sitting down
peacefully on its Act of Parliament, hasn’t
garrisoned the North with any new white
population worth mentioning, nor made it
any more accessible for defence purposes.
It has certainly done a little in the way of
providing an army and a fleet, but in the
same period Japan alone has added more to
its strength than all Australia’s new de-
fences amount to. If this country had been
even half as anxious to import strong white
artisans —men who would make goods here
and help to carfey the rifle and the public
debt and the tax burden —as it has been to
increase its imports of foreign goods, there
might be already a fairly, strong defence up
North behind the White Australia theory,
for the importation of foreign goods has
been almost incredible in recent years. But
the low-tariff crowd and the fiscal-sinking
crowd and the anti-white-immigration crowd
scarcely regard the White Australia faith
as worth defending, except with paper pro-
testations. Yet it is really the one thing
that counts —the one matter which calls all
the time for all the attention we can give it.
A white race may be conquered by another
white race; it may lose its vote and its Par-
liament and its trade unions and its lands
and its religion; and in time it may recover
them all. Anything is possible to the com-
munity which remains white. But the gate
of color is like the gate of Sheol. It only
bangs behind the lost soul once, and that
once is sufficient.
THE COSTLY FRUIT PROBLEM.
Dear Bulletin, —Sydney has been having
another of its periodical struggles with the
problem of expensive fruit. The daily papers
have turned their higli-browed geniuses on
to the job, and these persons have written
up the matter in the office with the aid of
the Encyclopaedia. Also the young and
swift and long-legged junior emissary has
been sent out to interview all and sundry,
and he has come back at top speed with his
hat on fire apd much conflicting information
in his pocket. Nothing of any great size
has eventuated. Fruit, it is fairly well
known, is a product of the soil. Some of it
grows on the level, and some grows on bushes
or trees. Very little fruit grows under-
ground. The most dangerous, fruit is the
cocoanut, because it is so hard and heavy,
and has so far to fall, t' at it is liable to
kill the person underneath—a thing that
the gooseberry seldom does and the straw-
berry never. No full-grown man was ever
killed by a strawberry falling on his head
from its ordinary elevation, it having been
detached from its stalk by the usual pro-
cesses of Nature. The fruit-grower is .the
first man —except perhaps the fruit-grower’s
landlord —who takes a hand in the business,
and he is alleged, on what seems good autho-
rity, to be a person of poor fortunes. This
may be partly owing to his landlord when
lie has one, but then in many cases he -has
no landlord, and the land he cultivates was
sold to him by the State at prices so low
that they seem ridiculous nowadays. Ills
ruin can’t be wholly set down to diseases in
his fruit, for he has a friendly Government
to help him combat disease, and. in any
case, very little of the fruit exposed for sale
is diseased. If there is a large worm or
serpent in the middle of it the loss doesn’t
fall on the grower but on, the consumer, for
he doesn’t find the worm till he has cut up
the apple or whatever it may be. The maker
of fruit cases isn’t alleged to be the cor-
morant who eats up the grower’s sustenance.
Yet one way and another the man who
stands at the beginning of things, so to
speak, doesn’t appear to make much. In
fact, he habitually declares that he is going
to abandon the game.
# * * *
A Socialistic railway carries this insolvent
toiler’s produce to the big city—except what
comes by cart or steamer —at less than cost.
Certainly the cost includes an absolutely
insane amount of interest on old and middle-
aged and newJ|debt, so that it is much mox - e
than it should be; still the fruit-grower is
as much responsible for the country’s loan
policy as any other individual member of
the community, and so are the fruit-dealer
and the fruit-eater and the fruit-box-maker.
They all believe in loans.. Therefore no one of
them has any special right to complain. A good
proportion of the goods that are despatched
by rail go bad in transit, because when all
the railways of a huge State are trying to
crowd all their freight and passengers
through one amazing bottle-neck into one
amazing city delays are inevitable. And
when the weather is hot, as often happens,
the decay is accelerated and badness is has-
tened. Sea conveyance is cheaper than
land conveyance, but it is slower, and it
covers longer distances, and when the
bananas have done 2000 miles of travel in
company with the bilge-water, and there is
an industrial difficulty on the wharf when
they arrive, a good deal of depreciation
must be allowed for. Somebody pays for
this depreciation. The grower says he does.
The consumer says he does. Benvenuto
Cellini or Cola di Rienzi or Guiseppe
Garibaldi or whatever may be the name of
the Dago retailer says that this item per-
sistently turns his hair grey. One. man who
doesn’t profess to pay for the loss and decay
of squashy and perishable fruit in transit is
the city landlord. He is a person of magnifi-
cent assurance, but even his assurance hardly
goes so far as that.
* * * *
Whether the Italian or Greek or Chinese
retailer—the fruit retailer is mostly Italian
or Greek or Chinese —makes a stupendous
fortune out of the high price of fruit —if the
price really is high—it is difficult to say.
Certainly he doesn’t look like a very big
capitalist, and he seldom seems to even own
the humpy or shack he trades in. He is accused
of the mean and vile economy of sleeping six
or more in a room, which doesn’t suggest
the possession of the treasures of Cbcesijs
or the wealth of Opliir, though again this
overcrowding may be merely his unwhole-
some habit. Certainly he seldom rises to
the wholesale walks of his profession, but
that may be owing to the fact that there are
more possibilities of robbery in the lower
branch of the business, just as the solicitor
has opportunities of getting away with the
trust funds which are not available to his
elder brother, the barrister. One of the
charges laid against the humble trader with
the dark complexion and the oily hair and
the polite grovel is that he keeps vast quan-
tities of fruit on hand ticketed at impossible
prices, till it goes bad, and then throws it
away. Often it is taken out to sea in the
city garbage punt and drowned, to the
grievous depletion of the public stomach
and the grievous silting-up of. some
essential marine highway. To this Guiseppe
Garibaldi replies tearfully with two state-
ments. One is that, if he is to attract the
public and do business, he must keep a brave
and garish show of fruit and vegetables in
liis window, even if the goods are going bad.
People won’t go into a place which, because
most of the stock has been pushed off early
at low figures, looks nearly empty. They
consider it a bankrupt haunt of
It is necessary to have 121 b. of cherries going
to ruin in the window in order to find -a
buyer for the thirteenth pound. Unlike the
draper, the apple-dealer can’t take the goods
out of his showy front after a week’s ex-
posure, and sell them inside the shop as new
and fresh and the latest Paris fashions. He
has to dress his window on Saturday to do
business, and on Monday he sells some of
his window-dressing for a song to the reck-
less small boy who has no care for his
stomach, and sends the rest of it to the dust
cart amid the execrations of all parties
concerned. His other defence is that he is
no prophet, and can’t tell at noon on Friday
whether it is going to rain in the evening,
so that he ought to mark down his goods.
He is in a worse position than the wild cat
speculator, who at noon demands fl for
each share in the Great Wheal Bang copper
mine, oblivious of the fact that they won’t
be worth Id. per shovel-full about closing-
time. Yet with all drawbacks there is no solid
evidence that fruit is consistently dearer than
it used to be. In older days, when the cast-
iron and imperishable local apple was almost
the whole stock-in-trade of the fruiterer, the
apple was fairly cheap, and it is so to-day.
The trouble is mostly with the rich but
feeble-minded tropical products which have
lately come into the market —things of which
a large proportion dies on the road, and
much perishes in the shop, and a good deal
fades away on the wharf, and a fair amount
goes to its long home in the market. If the
nigger packer and the nigger sailor and the
Dago retailer were a trifle more sanitary,
and the bilge-water on the ship happened
to be not quite so “high,” the mortality
among the fruit might be less. But the living
have always to pay for the dead. Other-
wise there would be no money in being dead.
A most justifiable disturbance was made
in Sydney a little while ago because the rent
of a far-from-commodious fruit-shop at Cir-
cular Quay had been put up to £24 per week.
When a partially-decayed banana —fhe sur-
vivor of many—which has travelled 2000
miles in a hot climate on an imported steam-
boat, is fainting up against a £24 per week
fruit-shop which is also one survivor of very
many, it is difficult to see how the animal
can be as cheap as one would like it to be.
High rents and hot weather, long distances,
city congestion, railway congestion; wharf
strikes, a luxurious new-born craving for
squashy things which won’t keep, and a
large, loose idea that the fruiterer in order
to do business should make tlie same kind
of show with his ephemeral goods as the
ironmonger makes with his imperishable
fender or stove or coal-scuttle —all these cir-
cumstances are against cheapness. Cer-
tainly there is very little information about
old fruit prices, so the story of the rise rests
mostly on the recollections of the Oldest
Inhabitant. In Sydney to-day one can
buy for a shilling a pineapple that
Edward 111., the day after the battle
of Crecy, couldn’t have purchased for all the
crown jewels of England. And a huge
volume of statistics in The Bulletin office
library merely mentions that cauliflowers
cost 2s. each in San Francisco in 1846.
* * * *
Personally I hate all fruit except cab-
bages.—Yours, etc., Henry Horsecollar.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Donkey Work.”
William Lever, the British soap-baronet,
gliaddened this paper’s soul by a speech at
Cabarita (Sydney) on Saturday. it Dl wa 1 s
commonly supposed that the Cheap Black
Laborite was dead, but the soap baronet
proves to be a survivor of the species, -lne
strong point of his oration was the term
“donkey work,” and he brayed in this wise.
That brings me to the question of a White Aus-
tralia. When I was in the Solomon Islands I saw
there Australians directing men of inferior races in
the making of articles that were to be consumed by
•the superior man. What I say, too, is that Aus-
tralia breeds the finest men —as I saw them—of any
section of the Anglo-Saxon world, and here m Aus-
tralia you are by your policy condemning them to do
the donkey work. Why should not the white Aus-
tralian be the superior man, directing the interior
man to make the best use of God’s earth, so that
everyone in Australia might have the best and the
utmost God’s earth can produce? We are God s
creatures, and God has given some of us higher in-
telligence than others. Do not go on compelling
your white men to do the donkey work when you
can get black labor to help you to make the most
of your natural advantages, thus giving your own
flesh and blood a chance of thoroughly developing
and enjoying your inheritance. (Applause.) touch
upon this matter with some delicacy. I daresay,
too, there is another side to it. But believe me the
one solution of a difficult problem has its beginning
in determination not to let your own flesh and bmod
go on continually doing this DONKEY WORK.
(Applause.)
There are still a few people who hold that
the world is flat, who believe in the. literal
rendering of Genesis, in the divine right of
Kings, and in the Jacobite restoration, bo
it is appropriate that cheap nigger labor
should have one advocate left.. And I he
Bulletin is quite willing to believe m cheap
nigger labor —if William Lever can show
one country where the white man, employing
it on a large scale, has come to the front in
art, science, literature, invention or even
sordid wealth or sordid conquest. For in-
stance, it is commonly supposed that the
colored labor section of the United States is
rather behind the white labor section. r l hat
Latin America, with its wonderful supply of
cheap colored labor, is somewhat away back
in the human possession, its best samples
being Argentina and Chili, where the cheap
colored laborer is least plentiful. That Por-
tugal, which went in for the wholesale im-
portation of African labor, lias, lost its
ancient punch—and so on. There is no time
to go into all the instances. William Lever
comes from a country which has never tried
cheap colored labor, so probably he doesn’t
know, or doesn’t want to know, or doesn’t
know how to know, or wouldn’t know that
he knew even if he did know. If he holds that
England is a degenerate wreck because it
allows its white people to do the “donkey
work,” then he is a rather unusual sample
of Englishman. It is the pride of his coun-
trymen that they keep up their muscle
by doing donkey work —that the poor save
themselves from physical degeneracy by
honest and remunerative toil, and the rich
do silly, unprofitable, perspiring donkey
stunts with dumb-bells and cricket bats and
footballs and polo devices in order to prevent
their muscles becoming flaccid. It is even
alleged that England won its battles on the
playing fields of Eton, where its aristocratic
youth toiled personally instead of hiring a
cheap alien to do the heavy . lifting.
According to common theory the countries
where the white man does the “donkey
work”—such as Britain, France, Holland,
Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Switzerland
and the northern section of the United
States —lead the world in almost every
respect. It is even believed that the white
donkey-worker makes far better wages than
the colored one, and that his employer
also makes far larger profits, because the
highly-paid white is so much more capable
of using delicate and intricate machinery
than his cheap tinted brother that he is
really the better investment of the two. This
may or may not be so, but it certainly seems
that the white countries supply the world
with most of its civilisation; that their
armies and navies boss the world ; and that
when the colored labor country is in difficul-
ties it usually goes to some place where the
white- man does the manual labor in
order to raise the wind. Baronet Lever,
living in a white man’s country afar off,
might possibly find it pay to have cheap
black men boiling soap for him in Australia,
for soap-boiling is a simple sort of industry
which is within the cheap laborer’s compre-
hension. But Australia has its own future,
and its own nationhood, and its own exist-
ence to consider, and it doesn’t live solely
to run a soap-boiling industry for Lever.
If that person has the faith which he pro-
fesses in nigger industry as a thing which is
beneficial all round, the place where ' he
ought to give it a really good trial is his
great English factory at Port Sunlight.
There, sad to say, the white man does the
“donkey work,” and there the first protest
should be made. The nigger, like every
other form of charity, should begin at home.
—— ♦
How Watt Put Ice On His Head.
Melbourne has great times in view, and its
Harbor Board is called upon to hustle as it
never hustled before, and Premier Bill
Watt will require to forego his sleep and
sit up with ice on his head in order to save
his State from commercial disgrace. Mel-
bourne, like many other places, was planted
in the wrong spot. The pioneer disliked the
deep-water harbor which had no bar at the
entrance because its depth wr.? quite super-
fluous for his little craft; because he had to
tie too much rope to his kellick in order to
reach the bottom ; because the shores were
often high and rocky, which made the build-
ing of a hut difficult; and because there was
no pleasant, shallow, drinkable, fordable
river at hand with vegetable-growing flats
on each side. So he was given to selecting
places which were good enough according to
the conditions of that day, but which don’t
suit existing conditions worth a cent. And
the present-day man has a lamentable habit
of sticking to the old place that was built
to suit the old order of things, though he
knows that the arrangement is out of date in
a commercial sense, and that the world’s
habits have changed beyond recognition.
This is the reason why Premier Watt will
have to sit up at nights with ice on his head.
He represents a forlorn hope in the shipping
sense. Brisbane, which was planted too far
up an insane river, has realised the hope-
lessness of the case and devised a haven for
big ships at Pinkenba. Adelaide has made
its Outer Harbor, and no longer takes its
river too seriously. Perth doesn’t expect the
10,000-ton liner to come up the Swan, and
compromises on Fremantle. Even Rock-
hampton has invented an outport of a sort.
But Melbourne, the second city of Australia,
still tries to think out ways and means of
keeping its many miles of channel dredged
so that big ships can struggle through, and
refuses to allow Westernport and Portland
to do the job for Victoria that the old bloated
city is no longer quite eoual to. Conse-
quently Premier Watt requires ice to put
on his head, for he is “up against it.” When
the new Australian flagship came along
Melbourne was driven to almost realise that
it was a second-rate place and a back num-
ber. The big war-boat can’t get in except
under favorable conditions and with a lim-
ited load of coal. The 18,000-ton Ceramic
arrived, and further assured Melbourne that
it was an early edition and not up to modern
requirements. Then heroic resolutions were
arrived at, and it was estimated that by
about 1919 the entrance and the long channel
across Port Phillip could be made fit to
accommodate the fully-laden leviathan of
1913, and if no bigger leviathan happened
in the interval the city might still rise to
its commercial responsibilities. But the
work is hardly commenced, and already news
is to hand that two 20,000-ton vessels are
getting ready for the Australian trade, and
there is no reason to suppose that the in-
crease will stop there. Probably it won’t
stop there for more than six months. Appar-
ently Melbourne is engaged in a hope-
less race, and unless some better port is
given a show Victoria will soon have to be
written down as a State which can’t accom-
modate up-to-date steamships. Then, very
likely, Hobart will quietly take up the job
of being Victoria’s great deep-water harbor,
and the biggest ships will there unload their
Victorian cargo, so that it may be lightered
from that advanced centre to Watt’s anti-
quated port. And the Hobartian will get
swelled head, and when he hears Melbourne
mentioned he will have to think a while
before he can quite locate the place. Mean-
while Premier Watt can put the whole
Antarctic region on his head without making
much difference.
The Ship that Fell in Two.
The Americans are paradoxical people. They
do some things with astonishing thorough-
ness and efficiency. In athletics, for ex-
ample, the Yankee does not throw away the
smallest fragment of a chance; as snorting
enthusiasts in other parts of the world have
been noting, with the fury of defeat in their
hearts, for many. years past. They know
more about handling meat and wheat, and
forming combines than the inhabitants of
any other nation on earth. They can manu-
facture trains, and agricultural implements
and steel nridges and motor-cars and a thou-
sand other highly complicated articles, in a
way that challenges competition with the
world’s best; which is not surprising, seeing
that they are admittedly in the front rank,
as scientific and commercial experts. And
yet they don’t build great ships. No really
meritorious big ship has come out of the
land of the Wooden Ham since the days of
the Civil War, and it has given the world, in
its time, some of the rottenest and most
unstable craft on record. The oil-steamer
Oklahoma, which was lost last week, is a
case in point. It left its country of origin
in seemingly good order. A storm arose, and
it fell in two after the manner of a decayed
banana. The brazenly jerry-built vessel
didn t even survive one serious tempest. It
went to pieces at the beginning of the very
first blow that it encountered; leaving the
captain, in the naif phrase of the cableman,
at a loss to explain how the disaster
occurred.” Ten years or more ago three
American-built ships started running between
ban Francisco and Sydney. They were un-
satisfactory from the jump. Their backs
had to. be strengthened; and in other re-
spects. it was found necessary to tinker with
them in various directions. They were taken
off the run altogether for some years, and
sent back to, it ultimately as oil-driven
liners. When a syndicate of New York
millionaires wanted to own a line of steam-
ships between, their city and Europe, the
idea of building and managing the same
never even entered into their heads, though
cash was no object whatever to them. In-
stead, they set out to buy up the Cnnard
and White Star lines. Failing in this
effort, they gave, up as hopeless the prospect
of participating in about the most important
business in the civilised globe. Tradition
has nothing to do with the matter. It is
true that British firms had a useful start in
the early days of iron ships; but Germany,
by the agency of enterprise and a healthy
tariff, has almost caught Britain up in this
respect; Italy is making good headway; and
even Japan has started to forge ahead.
America’s futilitv as a builder of ocean-
going steamers is simply a manifestation of
the fact that even the biggest and most
aggressively boastful of nations is capable
of having the hoodoo sign put on it as re-
gards certain essential activities. There are
some things that it can’t do ; or, to put it
otherwise, so many of the inhabitants are
satisfied as to its incapacity to do them that
it is the same as though the disability were
really there. Australia, until quite recently,
was persuaded firmly that it couldn’t defend
itself; that it couldn’t raise a citizen army;
or buy or build a navy; or man the latter
even in the incredible event of its being
achieved. There is still a big section which
refuses to believe in the Commonwealth’s
capacity to manufacture anything of import-
ance, and which clings accordingly to a low
tariff as the people’s only hope of salvation.
There is an immense class which refuses, in
its heart, to accept L the practicability of a
transcontinental railway; or a Northern
Territory effectively occupied by white men;
or decentralisation; or the abolition of the
Party Government system. When the ques-
tion of some day constructing the ships of
the Australian navy in these waters was first
mooted, there was the usual old howl of
derision. Yet Australia had something of a
reputation as a builder of ships in the nast,
and there is no good reason why it shouldn’t
acquire it again. In reality. Australia, or
any other intelligent and civilised nation, can
accomplish whatever it makes up its mind
to accomplish ; and that there are enterprises
which it is hideously inadvisable to neglect
has been demonstrated pretty conclusively
by America’s latest marine horror.
■ ♦
The Line the Loan Built.
[For Tiib Bulletin.]
This is the Line the Loan built.
This is the Tract from Here to There where
they laid the Line the Loan built.
This is the Deputation strong that hastened
to Sydney Town along to boom the
Tract from Here to There where they
laid the Line the Loan built.
This is the Minister bluff and bold, who to
the Deputation told the same old yarn
of the lack of gold needed to build from
Here to There the Line which he was
prepared to swear, etc.
This is the Local Member who said a placa-
tory word or two into the ear of the
Minister bold who to the Deputation
told the same old yarn of the lack of
gold to build the Line from Here to
There, which he (the Minister) would
swear was, etc.
This is the Board of Public Perks (often
known as “Committee of Works”) which
sat for the best part of a year (five
quid per sitting—not a bit dear!) just
to “take evidence” and to hear the
Local Member, and lots of others
(cousins and uncles and fathers and
brothers), telling the same old pleasant
fibs to make the State cough up the dibs
to cover the Tract from Here to There
with the Line the Minister could de-
clare, etc.
This is the authorisation sent by the Board
of Perks to Parliament, which recom-
mended as only fair the prompt con-
struction —from Here to There —of the
Line the Minister said he’d swear was
badly needed, and had so been since
Eighteen-Hundred and Seventeen —the
Line that was more than safe to pay,
immediately after Opening Day and the
chips and scraps had been removed (as
the Local Member’s figures proved) —a
Line which, fortunately, would cost
not more than a million pounds at most;
possibly, less —ah, yes; indeed; and,
thereupon, Parliament agreed to build
the Line the Loan built!
(Pause here for a long beer.)
This is the Loan —only medium-sized —which
Parliament kindly authorised—and this
is the Man who to Loandon went to beg
the money at five per cent. —and this is
the Uncle kind and true, who lent the
cash on an IO U, to be redeemed at an
early date —or else renewed at a
higher rate —when the railway Line
from Here to There was doing what
everyone could swear it was sure to do,
which was more than pay from the
afternoon of the Opening Day, when the
Minister with a pompous air would
wave his golden scissors, and swear,
etc.
This is the Period that expired, between the
time that the Cash was hired, and the
start of the very first railway train-
say, nigh four years, and most without
rain —the time when Loans were hard
to hatch, but Interest was paid with all
dispatch and promptitude to the Uncle
kind who held the paper the Man had
signed in Loandon Town in the purple
days when Loans were as easy as spuds
to raise for lines like the Line the Loan
built!
And this is the Cost, that, somehow, grew
in the Period I’m referring to, to a sum
that rather staggered the Nation and
greatly surprised the Deputation that
waited, along with the Local Member,
on the Minister bold (who you may re-
member) in Sydney Town —oh! a long
time back, before the Boom had begun
to crack —the Cost that on all conceiv-
able grounds could never exceed a
million pounds, but which, for some in-
visible reasons—perhaps bad luck or in-
ferior seasons—had jumped like an ath-
lete. young and supple, fron one poor
million to over a couple! Hence —and
this had staggered the Nation and
greatly worried the Deputation— the cal-
culations that formed the bases of profit
and Loss had gone to Blazes! —in the
case of the Line the Loan built !
Last—but not least —this pleasant story,
told in the form of an Allegory, ad
infinitum is repeated; wherefore the
State is vilely cheated, and all its in-
terests defeated—not because people are
unwilling, but for the reason that each
shilling “earned” on new Railways with
such trouble costs us, approximately,
double ; simply because the lines aren’t
paying, neither the Boom nor the Rain
is staying, yet for more Loan-built Lines
they’re braying—just like this Line the
Loan built!
n.s.w. R. McGeddon.
+.
Britain’s Bogus Peril.
Dear Bulletin, —The S. M. Herald made
a mild sensation last week by the publica-
tion of a number of extracts from a letter
written by one Rowland Hunt, an excitable
mediocrity who sits for an English constitu-
ency in the House of Commons. The outcry
of Hunt recalled the unconvincing howls of
terror that were the vogue in the days of
the Dreadnought movement. He considers
that Britain is in imminent peril of invasion
by Germany; and that the Government or
citizen who disputes that proposition is a
traitor, or a pro-Boer, or an anti-Egyptian,
or an enemy of the Empire, or a polecat, or
something. The local anti-Defenceite wel-
comes such an argument, inasmuch as it but-
tresses him in his contention that Australian
money should be spent as little as possible
on Commonwealth defence, in order that
more may be available for the protection of
the Heart of Empire. The following, from
Hunt’s missive, will be applauded vigor-
ously by every Empire Day celebrant in this
country:—-
I have no doubt that England will be attacked by
a first-class Power on the first really favorable
opportunity. Her fleet manoeuvres this year and last
year proved, as far as it was possible to prove, that
this country could be invaded successfully in several
places within a day or two.
Even if it is granted that Germany intends
to attack Britain on the first favorable
opportunity, there is still the consideration
that the invasion is one of the most difficult
problems on earth. There is all the differ-
ence in the world between an invasion and a
raid. Raiding forces of 20,000 or 30,000
men could quite possibly be rushed into Eng-
land. In fact, it is more than likely that this
would happen. But the men would not be
intended to occupy the country in any serious
sense of the word. They could not hope to
do so. Their effort would represent the for-
lornest hope in history, inasmuch as they
would be lost from the moment they effected
a landing. Their mission would merely be
to effect a diversion; to keep the Expedi-
tionary Force busy; and either die or be
seized and imprisoned in the attempt. The
suggestion that any force which any Euro-
pean Power, or combination of Powers, was
able to transport across the Channel within a
day or so, or for that matter within a week
or so, could establish itself and get food and
drink, while cut off from all supplies, in a
furiously hostile and well-armed island, is so
idiotically extravagant that most of the
Imperialist sensation-mongers have aban-
doned it years ago. England may be success-
fully raided, assuming the enemy has the
stupendous luck to get the right sort of
weather, the right men, and criminal care-
lessness on the part of the defenders. In-
vaded it can never be until the Fleet is so
utterly torn to pieces that the foe —say Ger-
many—is able to carry supplies between
London and Hamburg with the same com-
plete security that Australia carries them
between Melbourne and Sydney. Whether
the German fleet at its most favorable
moment will in the near future have any
hope of smashing the British fleet at the
latter’s least favorable moment is a profit-
less sort of thing to discuss. If it ever does,
Britain is gone as a first-class Power. The
fact that Britain fully appreciates the posi-
tion is one of the strongest reasons why the
calamity is unlikely to happen. Meanwhile
the menace of a casual invasion of Bull’s
country is flagrantly bogus; and if Australia
diverts one farthing of its own badly-needed
Defence money to avert the impossibility, it
deserves to be signed up as a lunatic among
the nations. —Yours, etc., 10-2-4.
♦
The Beef Trust Makes a Further Move.
From Sydney Sun (7/1/T4), whiefi gets
its cabled news from the London Times :
The American Beef Trust is diligently inquiring
into the possibilities of taking up large tracts of
country in the Northern Territory of Australia.
The calamity which the Liberal party
asserted during the Referenda campaign
didn’t, and couldn’t, exist in Australia has
now admittedly got a footing in Queens-
land. As a Liberal Government is in power
in the Northern State, and as, owing to the
mule-headed extremism and all-round incom-
petence of the majority of the Labor opposi-
tion there, it is unlikely to be ousted for
years to come, the position of the U.S. Beef
Trust looks secure. That is to say, the Beef
Trust’s position is. secure unless the Com-
monwealth decides to take the only sort of
action against it that is going to be of any
avail. The present Australian Government
is extravagantly Imperialist if its own
windy professions are to be credited. It
is composed largely of individuals who were
anxious to turn down the Australian De-
fence scheme on the ground that the money
would be better spent in defending Britain
in the North Sea. A problem now confronts
these alleged Imperial patriots which is in-
finitely more serious, so far as Britain and
the Empire are concerned, than any number
of more or less bogus Teuton menaces. It
concerns the very sustenance of the United
Kingdom. On its solution depends the dif-
ference, to the vast majority of Britons,
between fairly cheap meat and semi-starva-
tion. The Trust is paying prices to Banana-
land pastoralists that are rendering the
latter well-nigh delirious with gratification.
The pastoralists have plenty of stock to sell,
the seasons having been unusually good of
late. Also, they look like having plenty
more to sell in future, since good rain fell
where it was needed most during last week.
Everything in the Northern garden looks
financially lovely, more especially for the
wholesale cow-owner. Meanwhile, in the
background, stalks the Trust’s real objec-
tive ; not the aggrandisement of the Aus-
tralian pastoralist, not the collaring of the
local meat trade (a comparatively trivial
affair to a concern of the dimensions of the
Beef Combine), but the monopolising of one
of the life-necessaries of the world, and inci-
dentally of Britain, which depends more
than any other country on the imported cow
and the extraneous ox. George Reid, who
has no reason to lay himself out causelessly
to embarrass his friends of the Cook Gov-
ernment, said thi« last month: —
The effect of all that I have learnt of the Beef
Trust is that the danger from it is increasing. The
men most interested in the Australian trade are very
nervous concerning the outlook in Australia and in
London. They are particularly nervous over the
developments of the Swifts in Australia.
The Trust will be more than liberal to the pas-
toralists in the beginning. But if it manages to
knock out Australian buyers, the pastoralists will
find they will have to pay back in future low prices
every penny of the enhanced price obtained when
the Trust first came upon the scene. These Trusts
are not out to benefit any but themselves.
Reid was speaking, quite frankly, from the
British point of view. His appeal was not
a tenth part as much to Australia’s self-
interest as it was to its altruism and sym-
pathy for its indigent and poorly-nourished
relatives in the Cold Land. The estab-
lishment of the Beef Trust, on a big scale,
in the Commonwealth, may mean a certain
amount of discomfort to Australians in the
future; but it will represent an immediate
calamity of the worst sort to Britain, and,
through Britain, to the Empire. What are
the alleged Imperialists going to do about
it? It is up to Joseph Cook.
He Wasn’t Consulted.
A few weeks ago some of the remarkable
minions of Victoria’s Police Boss Saints-
bury came to the conclusion that James
Griffiths, an inoffensive Omeo farmer and
trapper, was John Henry Sparks, who
escaped from Pentridge Gaol 12 years ago
and has remained at large ever since. They
thereupon arrested James, brought him by
public coach and train to Melbourne, and
presented him at the City Court as Sparks.
Warders who were competent to identify the
gaol-breaker (the men, that is to say, who
should have been summoned to Omeo in the
first instance) immediately stated that Grif-
fiths wasn’t Sparks, and the victim of the


Hotel Steyne,
Manly Beach, N.S.W.
Facing: the Pacific Ocean.
THE BRIGHTON OF AUSTRALIA,
SURF-BATHING RIGHT IN
FRONT OF THE HOTEL.
Excellent Golf Links in Close P.-oximity.
Hot Salt Water Baths Adjacent.
TERMS —From \\!6 Day;
£3 I Os* Week.
A notable figure passed away last week in Sydney.
His name was Jimmy Umphomff. (You spell this
two “f, f’s” and a “ompff”.) He was the only man
in Australia who had never heard of “T. Smith’s Ltd.”
famous sacks and bags. His last words were, “Bury me
in one of ‘Smith’s Ltd.’ sacks. I was foolish enough
to ignore them in life; I want to take one with me
when I die.” There are not many in the Common-
wealth ignorant of the virtues of “Smith’s Ltd.”
sacks nowadays. “Smith’s Ltd.” are still the “Sack
Specialists” of Sussex Street, Sydney.*
810-SHOWMEN!
"THEBE'S onlv one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
DRINK WISELY.
Those often called upon to take a social glass find
it advantageous to take small nobblers of whisky,
brandy or gin, with an equal quantity of O.T. The
O.T. moderates intoxicating effects, and it improves
the flavor and adds good qualities to their drinks.*
Sporting Times. —What is there fresh to say of
Scrubb’s Ammonia? It is already a household name,
and the preparation is absolutely invaluable for
toilet purposes. Refreshing as a Turkish bath, it is
also a splendid cleansing wash for the hair, it re-
moves stains from your clothes, allays the pain of
gnat and mosquito bites, and softens hard water;
whilst it also cleans plate and jewellery, and restores
the color to faded carpets. What more can be asked
of any preparation?*
NIPPED IN THE BUD.
A Cold, Cough or Influenza can be nipped in the
bud by a few doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
for Coughs and Colds. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtain-
able everywhere.*
Book-lovers who desire to have cloth-bound copies
■of the book of the year, Mr. James Edmond’s “A
Journalist and Two Bears,” can now obtain them.
Order through any bookseller, but in the event of
any difficulty, write direct to the Platypus Press,
117 Bathurst Street, Sydney, enclosing three shil-
lings and sixpence, and the book will be sent by
return of post.*
Law’s imbecility was discharged. For this
outrage the police allowed their innocent
prey, by way of compensation, the lordly
sum of £26 —bare remuneration for his loss
of time, his railway and coach fare back,
and a meal or two. Having no lawyer to
advise him—he was already out of pocket
through the costs of his defence —and being
probably a simple and impecunious back-
blocker, he took what he could get and left.
But that by the way. Premier Watt, on
being interrogated on the matter, said: “If
Mr. Griffiths is satisfied, and I presume
he is, there is an end of it; but I was not
consulted.” Now, why was he not con-
sulted? He is State Treasurer, and is re-
sponsible for the collection and payment of
that £26. Does it mean that the police
authorities are in the habit of unauthor-
isedly paying sums from the public revenue
to salve their blunders? And suppose
Griffiths had been a “representative citi-
zen,” and had demanded and compelled pay-
ment of say, £6OO or £2600, or £5600, as
some slight compensation for the injury and
gross indignity to which he was unneces-
sarily subjected, would Treasurer Watt
have been so consulted? It would be as well
to know how much public money the police
authorities can pay away without the Trea-
surer’s knowledge or authority.
♦
Whenever some political calamity of the
William Lever type arises to suggest that
the Northern Territory is a tropical land
where nigger labor is essential, we discover
how thin is the veneer of White Australian-
ism on the Freetrade and Tory daily paper.
The nigger-labor apostle always gets abund-
ance of report, and a few paragraphs telling
what an eminent person he is. Also there
is usually a leading article setting forth
that the Freetrade and Tory daily wants a
White North, has some faint hopes for a
White North, but will regretfully put up
with a Black North if it is inevitable, which
the said paper fears it may be. This, for
instance, was a bit of the Sydney Tele-
graph’s outpouring on the subject last
Tuesday:—
Even if they were willing to leave the more at-
tractive life of the temperate zone, the economic
value of ‘donkey labor” in the tropics would not
make it possible to pay white men’s wages there,
until some way out of the difficulty which is not yet
in evidence has been found, therefore, we may have
to choose between two alternatives. We may either
take the risk to White Australia that is involved in
allowing a certain number of colored men to do the
“donkey work” required by white settlers in the
Northern Territory, or the risk of letting the coun-
try lie idle, in which case the White Australian policy
may ultimately be exposed to still greater danger.
The Telegraph, which still believes that
Captain Cook discovered Australia, has a
mania for inaccuracy, but in this matter it
doesn’t stand alone. The lie that the
Northern Territory is the hottest and most
tropical part of Australia has been told or
implied so often that most fools —or most
people—believe it now. At the risk of
dreary repetition it is worth while to state
the case again:—
(1) The Northern Territory isn’t the most north-
ern part of Australia, any more than is North Syd-
ney. Queensland, regarded as a country where the
white man is getting along very well, extends fur-
thest north.
(2) The Territory isn’t all in the tropics—not by
a long way.
(3) Much of the portion of the Territory which
lies within the tropics is cool by reason of its
elevation.
(4) The hottest regions of Australia lie right out-
side the tropics. Bourke in N.S.W. is in a latitude
which makes about as good a bid as any for the
Australian heat record.
These are a few points which are worth
considering when the silly old Northern
Territory bogey turns up. They are known
to everybody who cares to investigate intel-
ligently for himself, and doesn’t pin his
faith to silly rags which know as little of
Australian climatology as they do of Aus-
tralian history. But, unfortunately, intelli-
gent investigation is scarce, and the habit
of buying ignorant or wilfully-misleading
penny papers is altogether too plentiful.
More talk about Tyson, from “R. J.E.C.”:
Those of us who knew the man rub our eyes at
Bedford’s canonisation of Jimmy Tyson (B. 1/I/’l4)
What a cultured mind like Bedford’s can find to
eulogise in Tyson passes comprehension. He was a
man with one idea—stock. He was dull and dis-
agreeable ; I won’t say he was uncouth, for he lived
too long among decent people not to know how to
behave decently, but he was a boor at heart. And
what sort of employer was he, anyhow? A good
many of those who worked for him are still knocking
about, and a poll of their opinions would be inter-
esting. As to the Great Thoughts that came to him
as he rode with the stars across the Western Downs,
well, he was probably planning how ho would sur-
prise the hands by arriving at the station at sunrise
instead of sundown, perhaps to find evidences of a
spree. This was his gentlemanly plan of action,
varied by paltry masquerading as a sundowner, gain-
ing information under the cloak of ration-begging.
No! The outstanding fact about Tyson is that he
made three millions, and while he may have done no
harm in making them, he did absolutely no good.
He was not brainy or conversational, and did nothing
to encourage art or literature. He did not even
offer any share of his scraped-vp wealth to the
destitute or disabled. As to his defects (I sav
nothing of his moral qualities) we were content to
shrug and laugh at them while he lived, and we
would be silent about them after his death but for the
misplaced idealisation of a commonplace man.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Monsieur Beaucaire.”
Her Majesty's “Come Over Here.”
Palace “A Day at the Races.”
Adelphi “Aladdin.”
Criterion “Officer 666.”
Little Theatre “His House in Order.”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan-Fuller’s Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric V
Colonial V Continuous Pictures.
Empress J
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Olympia 1 West > s pictures.
Gi.aciarium /
Imperial Moving Pictures.
White City Various Shows.
Eden Gardens, Manly. The Dandies.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Forty Thieves.”
Princess’s “The Pride of the Prairie.”
King’s “The Land of Nod.”
Royal “Diplomacy.”
Opera House Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Esplanade, St. Kiloa. . The Dandies.
That trivial tissue of theatrical improba-
bilities, “Officer 666,” at Sydney Criterion,
continues to attract audiences that cheer-
fully suffer being “had,” and merely smile
when Fred Niblo confesses that such things
could not happen anywhere but on the
American stage. But it is perhaps fortunate
that that charming actress, Miss Josephine
Cohan, has so little to say, as, since the open-
ing night, her voice has ceased to make itself
audible much beyond the first 20 seats in the
stalls.
** * *
Every night thousands o: would-be Revue-
patrons are turned away, cursing impotently,
from “Come Over Here” at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney), with the result that the nation’s
drink bill is needlessly augmented; trouble
is occasioned in normally peaceful homes;
and the police are impelled to work overtime.
(The writer knows that this is so, having
had it on the word of a press-agent.) Ivy
Schilling and Fred. Leslie are dancing as
distractingly as ever —a remark_which also
applies, when one comes to think of it, to
the rest of the cast. Talking of dancing,
Miss Minnie Hooper, who was responsible
for the staging of the Persian ballet and
other beautiful features, deserves all the
applause that she hardly ever gets. She is
a great and artistic ballet-mistress. It has
been estimated that the show-girls will hurl
themselves carefully into the water at Manly
about 300 times more ere the performance
moves on to Melbourne.
“Miss Elizabeth’s Prisoner” will have
escaped from Sydney Royal before this
Bulletin is seen in public; but the pursu-
ing critic is obliged to hurl his javelin after
the fugitive. A mere three-night revival
and Turkish bath weather may have had
something to do with it, but the fact re-
mains that the first performance of the
“Prisoner,” which was produced in Mel-
“A DAY AT THE RACES,” AT
SYDNEY PALACE.
The Dutch comedian (Paul Stanhope) shows
Sydneyites how kissing is done in Ballarat.
bourne about a month back, lacked snap and
finish. For one thing, Waller, as Captain
Peyton, didn’t seem to trouble overmuch
about the display of his affections; and the
lovemaking of the wounded rebel and the
feverishly patriotic Elizabeth Philipse was
about all there was to it, when all was said
and done, which said-and-doneness happened
about 10.40. Even in the hero’s worst
moments, a comforting air of unreality per-
vaded the would-be romantic trifle. Madge
Titheradge made a dainty and petulant
Elizabeth, but had hardlv enough weight
for the part of the uppish young woman
who first wants to hang her wounded guest
and ends by wanting to marry him. Frank
Woolfe worked hard as Elizabeth’s fianc4,
the loyal Georgian volunteer who is made to
perform all the old cowardly tricks for the
greater honor and glory of the bursting hero.
Alec F. Thompson supplied a pleasantly
humorous old man study; Alma Vaughan
was too young an old lady; and Charles
Pope, a one-time Rickardian friend, cackled
naturally as Black Sam. “The Great
Game,” an entertaining if improbable one-
act detective sketch for three characters
(played by Woolfe, Edmund Waller and
Thompson) preceded the gallantly unreal
“Prisoner.” On Wednesday evening the
dainty “Marriage of Convenience” started
a three nights’ sprint. Saturday evening
sees the beginning of “Beaucaire.”
# * * *
Specialties at Sydney picture-shows:—
“The Filly” (Crystal Palace), an Irish story with
the usual broth of a boy, who laughs his way through
a world of trouble to win a colleen and lift the
mortgage off the farm. It isn’t much of a mortgage
and somewhat less of a farm, but everything else is
right, including the colleen and the entire stock of two
pigs. (There may be a hen hull down on the horizon,
but, if so, it doesn’t cackle audibly when it places an
egg on fixed deposit.)
“The Phantom Signal” (Colonial), or the reforma-
tion of a dividend-fiend. Recommended to ferry and
gas cos. and fruit and fish combines with the utmost
fervor.
“At the Bottom of the Abyss” (Empress), a thrill-
drama by the Pasquali Co. (Pasquali thrills are just
the thing for these hot nights. They send a shiver
down one’s back.)
“In the Grip of the Eagle’s Claw” (Lyric), being
another of the series of operations of a U.S. criminal
league which were commenced recently at the
Colonial.
“Sapho” (West’s Glaciarium and Olympia), a
dramatisation for the cinematograph of Alphonse
Daudet’s morality novel. Well produced.
“A DAY AT THE RACES,” AT
SYDNEY PALACE.
Maid of Haggis (Anna Clarke) hasher fling.
“King Charles” (Spencer’s Lyceum), a more or less
authentic record of the troubles of Charles 11. after
getting from Cromwell at the gates of Worcester
what Dave Smith got from McGoorty at Rushcutter’s
Bay. (Legend has it that Charles disguised himself
in the flight by climbing up a telegraph pole and
professing to be a line repairer.)
“The Heart of a Heathen” (Imperial), an inter-
esting drama based on the gratitude of a Chinaman,
who, having been preserved by a white man and his
family, preserves them in his turn from the terrors
of the Kin-to Society, or some such Masonic
pirates.
*i* -I. -I- •$.
At the National Amphitheatre (Sydney)
the policy of quick changes and hurry-up
turns is bringing more business to the vaude-
ville mill. A new batch of Americans was
introduced on Saturday, including a team
of clever tight-wire performers, a Red Indian
(who whooped tunefully with a baritone
voice), a mob of trick bulldogs, the bright
(linger Girls, some more “raggers,” and a
female impersonator who would deceive even
a white slave agent.
** * *
The Tivoli (Sydney) put five fresh items
on its programme on Saturday, and judging
by the clamor of the packed audience nothing
could have been more satisfactory unless it
were free drinks and a bonus at the exits.
These days it is wise to book seats for the
Tivoli shows—especially for the Tango teas
on Tuesday and Thursday afternoons. The
Expensive Unemployed seem to be living in
the theatre.
* :!: t-
“A Day at the Races” is now A Month at
the Palace (Sydney).
** * *
The White City, at Rushcutter’s Bay
(.Sydney) has added to its long list of enter-
tainments a party of midgets, includ-
ing Anna Pohl, “the heroine of the Balkan
War.” She wasn’t mentioned in despatches,
but, then, the press agent has nothing to do
with the despatches. He’s got his own busi-
ness to attend to.
❖ * *
Carrie Moore, having recovered from her
indisposition, is back in her place as prin-
cipal boy at the Adelphi (Sydney), where
George Willoughby turneth away the wrath
of the disappointed late-comer at the
“Aladdin” panto. It is a good show, and
the leg revue is its profit.
** * *
Gene Greene, whatever one may think of
his methods, has revived the fortunes of the
new Tivoli in Adelaide, and his rather cruel
encouragement of the various more or less
incompetents who go on the stage to imi-
tate him is a screaming and successful
comedy. This house has been showing also
the one-round assault of McGoorty upon
Dave Smith, giving an odd idea of a boxing-
match to the many patrons who have never
seen such a thing except per film. The
Tivoli is now closed for a few days pre-
paratory to starting in the open air, on the
Oval. The Royal also is shut for the
moment. There remains the King’s, in
which the Brennan-Fuller Co. runs a very
strong bill. The Staigs have been cycling
round their bottomless pit, the charming
Violet Carmen has been singing her Maori
song, and Hilary Long has been coming down
stairs on his head; and now there
are a lot. of clever hew people. The hot
weather is also the Dandies’ opportunity.
They don’t advertise anything, except that
they will be in the Exhibition gardens; and
the public drops in and takes what it gets,
and is grateful. West’s Pictures rely mainly
on the drama “In the Bishop’s Carriage,”
and Wondergraph has just settled the Beauty
championship of Adelaide.
** * *
DIPLOMACY.
[For The Bulletin.]
Sing ugh! the creeping Comtesse, in the
wicked hobble skirt,
Who schemed at Monte Carlo for a while;
She was worthy to be pitied, she would tear-
fully assert,
Though she warded off compassion by her
style;
It was not exactly shocking,
But her foot suggested stocking,
And her chase-me mode of frocking
Raised a smile.
The smile developed later to a short, sardonic
laugh,
When this schemer in the diplomatic line
Crept to darling Dora’s album and removed a
photograph
Which she sold for ready cash to Baron
Stein.
Ne’er a vulgar pocket-picker
Was larceniously slicker
Than the lurid Comtesse Zicka
Superfine.
Anon she shook a paper from a diplomatic
box—
She did it with the artfullest intent;
But she carried subtle perfume (to denote
she was a fox)
And it put the diplomats upon the scent.
Their suspicions were mistaken,
Till at last they did awaken
To the truth about the shaken
Document.
Then lurid Comtesse Zicka went and wept
upon the mat;
The Baron was diplomatised as well;
Whilst Dora, guilty only of an unbecoming
hat,
Looked as gentle as a daisy in a dell.
And the thoughtful bard reflected:
If your guilt is unsuspected,
Never let it get detected
Through a smell.
VICTORIA. O.K.
* * * *
“Diplomacy,” in its “re-written” form at
Melbourne Royal, demonstrates the essential
theatricalism of Sardou’s old play, and the
necessity for a carefully-chosen company of
actors to give it even a surface appearance of
truth. The first two scenes are rooms with
an absurd number of entrance and exit
places in them ; and the working of the plot
requires an unreasonable wealth of oppor-
tunity for the villainess to be alone, or to
be _t§te-a-t§te with the villain. False sus-
picion is ingeniously directed towards Dora
and her mother, but the thefts that cause the
suspicion are cheap melodramatic devices for
the temporary triumph of Guilt over In-no-
cence. The two Beauclerc brothers are re-
spectively brainless and thick-headed, and
the comedy-relief character, played by Mrs.
Brough, is an inexplicable intruder who con-
nects herself with the story by remarking
that Comtesse Zicka uses too much scent,
which is inconceivable of a woman who
prowls around other people’s sitting-rooms
looking for valuable papers in despatch-boxes.
Why should a silent-footed spy carry a tell-
tale perfume?
* * * *
The acting hides none of the play’s defects.
Julius Knight, as a rather stodgy elder
Beauclerc; Greenaway, as an easy but un-
impressive Orloff; Mrs. Brough, as an elderly
lady who gives utterance to “unconscious”
humor, with an obvious consciousness of the
value of her lines; and Miss Emma Temple
in a character which she suggests but does
not interpret, are the most likeable per-
formers. Martin Lewis, hard and loud, fails
to get the audience’s sympathy for Julian
Beauclerc, and is quite incapable of ex-
pressing the emotions of that much worried
young, man. Miss Grace Noble, though often
pleasing in an angular way, is not a Dora
that an unimaginative audience can take
seriously; nor is there any personal force
or artistic completeness in Leslie Victor’s
hybrid variety of a Baron Stein. Miss Irene
Browne presents the tactful, attractive
Zicka as a lady with repellent mannerisms,
a melodramatic countenance and a strange,
measured diction ; and one can only describe
it as a study of unnaturalism in three ex-
pensive gowns.
Nothing has happened to impair the pro-
spects of the panto, at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.). It is still in a position to do as it
pleases with “The Forty Thieves” who play
the name part. Finally, it is content to let
a dry kitchen kettle of water be emptied
into three alleged jars on the understanding
that 40 thieves are being drowned in boiling
oil.
“The Land of Nod,” at Melbourne King’s,
has now shaken down into a definite order
of procedure, and is happening according to
time-table eight times a week until further
orders.
* * * *
Ferry Corwey, a musical clown in glad
knickers, is the latest arrival at Melb. Opera
House. His turn is full of tricks and eccen-
tric musical developments, and the bill looks
all the brighter for him. The lady juggler
and the bounding Petleys are doing as be-
fore ; also Barton continues to rob the Bank
of England of its paper money. The other
people are mostly on the verge of departure
and various newcomers are close at hand.
* * if
The favorite at Spencer’s Olympia, Mel-
bourne, on Saturday was “An Hour Before
Dawn.” a tale of sudden death and a girl’s
incredible attempt to solve the mystery of
it.. .A dreamy, desultory sort of yarn con-
taining a fair princess and a mad. moribund


WOMAN OP 70 HAS A FACE LIKE
THAT OF A YOUNG GIRL.
LONG-GUARDED FAMILY SECRET
LEARNED THROUGH A PROVIN-
CIAL LADY.
“From mother to daughter, generation
after generation,” writes a lady now 70
years old, “we have been noted throughout
the little provincial town where we live for
the beauty of our complexions, preserved
even to old age. Of late so many of our
friends seem to have been deceived and dis-
appointed by harmful skin remedies that we
have decided it is not right for us to keep to
ourselves any longer the formula that has
always been considered as our family secret,
and to which we owe our ‘eternal youth.’
Therefore we take this opportunity of com-
municating it to our sister readers. Simply
take 2oz. rosewater, 1 dram tincture of ben-
zoin and 2oz. Flowers of Oxzoin, and mix
them yourself at home. Any chemist can
supply you with what is necessary. Shake
the lotion before using and apply with a
clean piece of cotton wool or a sponge regu-
larly night and morning. In less than a
week you will surely be asked what has
caused such a wonderful improvement in
your appearance. The freshness of your
complexion will be dazzling. We know be-
cause we have often made the very same ex-
periment among our friends, and this is the
only thing we oprselves have ever used. It
is our family remedy for all complexion
troubles, and has never failed to give the
very highest degree of satisfaction; in fact,
we consider it an ideal means for preserving
the natural health of the skin. The formula
is old-fashioned, simple and inexpensive, but
always efficacious. We would be very happy
to give you others, but this is the only one
we possess of which we know the benefits
from personal experience.”
Important: Inquiries recently made of a
noted dermatologist proved conclusively that
the above lotion is unequalled for the pur-
poses for which it is recommended, and it
may therefore he regarded as being
thoroughly reliable'.*
FEELS FIT AND WELL.
“Four years ago I was troubled with a heavy,
sleepy feeling after meals,” writes Mr. T. Wood,
storekeeper, Alexandra, Vic. “One day a friend
casually recommended Chamberlain’s Tablets, and I
acted on his advice. The day after the first dose I
felt decidedly better, and in a week felt splendid.
Ever since 1 have felt fit and well.”*
For All
Seasons
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
musician was labelled “A Royal Romance,
and the title of “Cupid versus Women s
Rights” was bestowed on a trifle mainly
featuring genteel love-making under an
Egyptian sun.
* * *
“The Pride of the Prairie,” staged at
Melbourne Princess’s on Saturday, sets
forth the sins of Carlos Durando, the bad
boy of his district. Already one of Carlos’
romances has borne the usual embarrassing
fruit, and another with a Red Injun looks
promising, when six inches of knife from
Great Storm, her father, interrupt the even
tenor of the villain’s Don Juaning. After
that Carlos fades out of the narrative for
17 years, but eventually turns up to dis-
cover his former “victim” comfortably
married and settled, and his daughter the
donah of a tenderfoot cowman. The Dago
signalises his reappearance by further pro-
miscuous villainy, reveals the past of his
quondam flame, has the dashing tenderfoot
abducted by Injuns, and succeeds in being
rude all round. Finally he tries to cap his
miscreantry by embezzling the whole visible
female population, but encounters the post-
dated vengeance of Great Storm aforesaid,
and is squeezed by the neck until he is dead.
Vivian Edwards has the job of being Carlos
Durando, and he mostly succeeds. Cyril
Maekay frequently plunges into prettiness as
Dick, the tenderfoot; and Herbert Leigh
staggers under John Martin’s load of re-
spectability. Charles Taylor’s O’Donovan
has the saving grace of geniality ; but Frank
Neil’s Broadway Bill is infected with dull-
ness ; and even the Great Storm of Max
Clifton has too much of Max. As Maggie,
Miss Oriel Hotson screechily discloses the
bellowdrama within her; while the chief’s
"THE LAND OF NOD," AT MEL-
BOURNE KING'S.
Little Anna McNabb as
Bonnie.
Welsh Karebit.
daughter, Pachuca, according to Miss Nell
Ilolroyd, is never a Redskin of superior sta-
tion. Miss Boswell, the new lady figuring
as Clattering Kate, seems to prefer to be
flat than forceful for fear of straining her
elocution. As usual the scenery does
more than justice to the show, J. S. Mann’s
brush being responsible for the effects.
Miss Theo Cowan’s plaster model for the
marble bust of William Lyne is completed
and is said to be an admirable likeness. The
bust will be of Carara marble, on a pedestal
of colored Australian marble, and will be
ready in August next. It will be placed in
Australia’s Parliament House.
A very guileless defence of the South
African railway management as against the
allegedly unreasonable railway strikers was
published last Tuesday in a Sydney daily.
Here it is in all its beauty:—
The railway men in the Transvaal and Free State,
APART FROM THE MEN GETTING 3S. 4d. A DAY, are the
best-paid men in the world in railway employ.
That sort of defence apnlies all the world
over. Everybody is sufficiently paid except
the numerous fellow who isn’t.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“S’Death”: There is a quaint sort of row in pro-
gress between the J. C. Williamson firm and the
Sydney Sunday Times. The Times began it by tell-
ing the literal truth about “Come Over Here” on
the Sabbath following the first production of that
somewhat mournful entertainment. The firm could
not have been more scandalised and astonished had
a tame lamb shouldered its way into Her Majesty’s
and bitten one of the comedians to death. The firm’s
official Reader of Plays was torn from the midst of a
mountain of MSS and despatched to the erring
sheet with the horrible news that henceforth all
advts. within the gift of the J C.W. Co. would be
withheld from it (the sheet). The Times is under-
stood to have fallen into a profound stupor or
swound. When it came to, the Reader of
Plays was gone. Last Sunday and the Sun-
day before the unhappy sheet was completely
empty of J.C.W. advts. In return, the tradi-
tional puff paragraphs about the hymns that Miss
Daisy Jerome prefers at Evensong; the reasons why
the comedian who plays the nigger in “Come Over
Here” elected to chuck his commission in the Blues
and take to the drama; and other facts of burning
veracity and public interest were missing. The
Sunday Times makes no complaints, in its editorial
columns or elsewhere, about this strenuous attempt
on the firm’s part to discipline it into saying what
it doesn’t think to its readers. It just keeps humbly
silent, and hopes for the best. It is not a fighting
paper—merely a passive resister.
“M.P.A.”: Lewis Waller does a bit of boxing by
way of keeping fit. During his Melbourne season he
has sparred every maiming with “Starlight,” the
veteran colored pug. Nowadays “Starlight” declares
he's an actor, too. He has appeared in “The House
of Temperley,” “Ben Hur” and “Anthony and Cleo-
patra,” and is a probable starter in the J.C.W. pro-
duction of “Joseph and his Brethren.” In private
life “Starlight” is Mister E. W. Rolins. In his
prime he fought a hot 10 rounds for 305., and the
bucketsful of money gained in the boxing ring
to-day makes him feel a grudge against his parents
for pushing him into the world 30 years too soon.
He made his first appearance on a stage in “The
Octoroon,” at Brisbane, in the early ’Bo’s.
“Bloge-s”: Cuyler Hastings, who shot himself in
New York last week, was an indifferent actor, but
he had a splendid stage personality and an attractive
stage appearance. He suggested strength and gloom
and soulfulness, and it helped him mightily in his
Sherlock Holmes parts. Barring William Gillette he
was perhaps the most convincing Holmes that the
stage has seen. Latterly—in Paris and in London—
he had been threatened with locomotor ataxia, and he
doubtless reckoned that the euthanasia which the
bullet supplies was the best solution to his troubles.
Muriel Starr, Unighted States actress, to a Maori-
land interviewer: “I have never met people who
could tango a bit in Australia. .. .It is an art!”
That settles it.
“F.H.”: Achille Rebottaro, who for the past 20
years has been a well-known figure on Melbourne con-
cert platforms, keeps perpetually debonair. No
traces of embonpoint or middle-aged whisker yet
detract from his youthful appearance, nor does the
fact that he is a parent seem to weigh heavily upon
his soul. For a long time Rebottaro earned his
daily crumb, together with a certain amount of crust
and a partial suspicion of cheese, by giving lessons
in the art of how not to bawl. Nowadays he pays
most of his income-tax on revenue derived from the
common or egg-laying hen. It is this occupation
which helps him to keep the bloom of youth, and
confines his waist-line within the limits of the tape.
Lately Achille has extended his land-holding, in-
stalled electric light in the poultry sheds, bought a
fresh book of receipt-blanks, and added a lump to
his income. Rebottaro, of Milan, is undistinguish-
able with the naked eye from a real Australian,
although the news-and-poultry papers insist on refer-
ring to him as “Signor.”
“Star”: Seriously I think the management of
King’s (Melb.), where “The Land of Nod” is pro-
gressing unfavorably, should be compelled to revise
its representation of good King George. King G. is
trotted out in company with G. Reid and another,
and he is the most mangled and mechanical monarch
I have ever clapped eyes on. Apart from looking
as if he had escaped from a fire in the waxworks in
such spurious finery as he could lay hands upon, he
has that air of trepidation observable in a man who
expects to be bitten behind by a dog, and he fumbles
himself, and stutters with his feet, and is an under-
sized victim of neurasthenia and palpitation of the
heart. Let him be returned, O.O.I)., as an undesir-
able immigrant, otherwise the boasted loyalty of
Australia will be permanently deranged.
“Teddy” Royce, lately appearing in melodrama at
Drury Lane, is about the toughest little mummer on
record. He is said to be only 72, but when he came
to Australia, 27 years ago, he was already an old
man— i.e., a “wreck of his former self.” His former
self had been one of a famous quartette of Gaiety
Burlesque favorites. Nellie Farren, Fred Leslie and
Kate Vaughan were the other three. All of them
are dead many years, but they were going strong
when their “wrecked” ex-comrade Royce left Eng-
land for Australia under engagement' to Brough and
Boucicault. A paralytic stroke ended his career at
the Gaiety. Dancing had been his forte, but as a
dancer he was practically “done” when he came to
this country and played Blueskin in the “Jack Shep-
pard” burlesque. People who had seen him in his
best days and knew the story of his breakdown, spoke
of Royce’s return to the stage as a wonderful thing.
That was 27 years ago. And now he is described as
“remarkably vigorous.” Whilst he was on the
Drury Lane job recently he met with a serious mis-
hap one morning, was taken to a hospital unconscious,
and annoyed the surgeons by going off to the theatre
to play his part the evening of the same day.
“Whitehall”: I watched the Tango being danced
at the Tivoli (Sydney) last week. It seemed to be
an extremely graceful dance, and as morally innocu-
ous as the waltz or even the Lancers. (A dance is,
of course, entirely what the performers make it. The
waltz can be made as suggestive as the Turkey Trot;
and the Kitchen Lancers as executed in London night-
clubs, such as the Alsatians, a decade ago, lacked
nothing on the score of riskiness.) The obstacle to
the Tango, locally, will be its difficulty. In London,
Paris, etc., there are big leisured classes, with little
else to do but learn new dances and the like. Prac-
tically the only Australians who don’t work are
those who are mentally or physically incapacitated
from doing so. Men don’t want to learn complicated
dances after a strenuous day’s toil. I prophesy
that the Tango will meet with the same fate as
skirt-dancing did 20 years ago. In those far-back
days every well-to-do young woman, with a decent
figure, learned to skirt dance. If her parents were
very rich she acquired a faint simulacrum of the
art from Letty Lind —eldest sister, by the way, of
Australia’s adopted Fanny Dango. Otherwise she
went to the local dancing mistress. For about a
year every other household, with grown-up daughters
and any pretensions to fashion, harbored one or more
young women who on the least provocation thundered
about amongst the furniture, and waved their arms
purposelessly, and in general provided an unconscious
burlesque of the movements of the elect in such
matters. Then the performers recovered their sense
of the ludicrous, and the craze fell dead. It will be
the same with the Tango, in the unlikely event of its
ever so much as coming to life, in a general sense,
in Australia. It is not for amateurs; in fact, I
doubt if it is suited even for professionals, unless
they be professionals of S. European extraction. The
feature of the Tivoli Tango Tea was not, by the
way, the Tango, nor yet the tea, but the production
as a whole. What a consummate showman Hush D.
Mclntosh is! Whether he is staging prizefights or
complimentary meals or charity matinfies, or variey
entertainments, he is always individual, always imag-
inative and always daring. Even when he does an
old thing he does it in a new way ; and mostly he does
things that are unprecedented. He has both a suod
nerve and ideas, the qualities which did most to
make men like the late Augustus Harris, and which
are rarely to be found among the theatrical ruck.
“First Njghter’’: A fine effort in the way of
bogus righteousness was “M.L.’s” denunciation (B.
8/l/’l4) of my recent remarks about revues. His
delicately adumbrated hatred of “booze,” “highballs,”
“blue grass” and “corn whisky,” “Manhattans with
rye for a chaser,” and all the rest, is on a par with
his pure-minded disgust at the idea of jests concern-
ing satyrs and White Slaves. He reminds me of
an immigrant cook that I had the ill-fortune to
acquire the other day. On my asking if there was
any brandy in the house, she contorted her face into
an expression of nausea, or what not, and answered:
“No, sir-—only some of that horrible stuff, gin.”
There was some gin—about a tablespoonful, the rem-
nants of a bottle that had been full and unopened
before the new arrival got to it “M.L.” is typically
English. I will wager long odds that he is the tyne
who drinks enthusiastically himself, while bitterly
denouncing all other drunkards; and who in the
intervals of the dreadful old sport of Pawing the
Barmaid is capable of voicing the most splendid senti-
ments on the subject of the Home Virtues, and the
bestial criminality of all other Barmaid-Pawers.
His character, which, as aforesaid, is that
of the immemorial Englishman or Unconscious
Wowser, gleams from every line of his art-
less screed. By the way, he is quite wrong
about the revue spirit being dead here, owing
to the sturdy, common-sense holiness of the Aus-
tralian. The Australian requires to be carefully
distinguished from the Australian theatre-goer. The
latter is simply eating the revue at Her Majesty’s
■ —imbecile though it is, for the most nart. The
scenic effects, the leg-show business, and the sort
of obscenity that was introduced into the “Tele-
phone Tangle” turn the other night make the same
over-mastering and unforgettable appeal to the local
theatre-goer as they evidently did to “M.L.” in
America. P.S.—lt is ouite possible that, “M.L.” is a
Yank or a Greek or Finn or German or even Chow.
The English tvpe is not confined to England. One
of the most English characters I ever knew was a
huck-nigger whom I met in San Francisco before the
fire. The venue was a bar which we had penetrated
in search of an errant pugilist of our acquaintance.
The savage was slightly drunk ; on each knee he
balanced what “M L.” would term a Lost Woman,
what time he howled, in a discordant tenor and with
tears in his eyes, “Lead Kindly Light.”
There’ll be a fine opportunity for the Holy Rollers
and Purity Dervishes to hit up the war-drum when
E. J. Carroll’s English co. opens in Australia pre-
sently with “The Blindness of Virtue.” The theme
of Cosmo Hamilton’s play is the necessity of parents
dispelling sex ignorance from their children, particu-
larly girls. In this case a girl of 19, as innocent
in thought and deed as a child of nine, falls in lore
with a young blood living in the house as a friend of
her father. One night, anxious to see him, she goes
to his room in her nightie, and misunderstands all
his hints and even plain statements to depart. The
scene is the “big” one of the piece, and is calculated
to bring the show a lot of free advertisement. Some
of the dialogue;—-
Effie: “You gave me a horribly lonely day, and
kept me up half the night.” [He’d been on a jag
in town.]
Archie: “I kept you up half the night. .. .how?”
Effie; “I waited here till I fell asleep. It was
four o’clock when I went to my own room.”
Archie: “You waited here?”
Effie; “Yes. Of course, I did. Where else could
I wait?”
[Later.] Archie: “Someone’s coming. For God’s
sake, go.”
Effie: “Let them come. I don’t mind. I suppose
I can be here if I like, can’t I?”
Archie (angrily) : “No, you can’t. You’ve no right
to be here. Will you go ?”
But the maiden refuses to go, whereupon the agitated
young man takes her in his arms and rains kisses
and googly words upon her. In the midst of the
transport Ma knocks at the door. Archibald seizes
his illicit property, locks it in a cupboard and bids
Ma come in ; says “Good-morning” and opines that
it doesn’t look so dark now that the sun is up, or
words to that effect. He also thinks it may rain.
After some more small talk the old lady goes off,
and the shivering youth tries to hustle the daughter
from the volcanic surroundings. But daughter isn’t
aware of the Awful Sin she is committing, and stamps
her bare tootsies. “I’ll go to my room when I’m
ready,” says she; “not a moment before.” She
then throws her arms round Archie’s neck, but the
wretched youth flings her off. “Don’t do that again,”
he cries. ' “I can’t stand it.” Whereupon the girl
sinks beside the bed. She wails to him that she
loves him. And just there in comes her OLD MAN !
Then there’s a heart-to-heart talk or bellow all round,
especially when Pa finds out that Ma is to blame by
reason of the fact that his orders to her to point
out the dangers of the track to her daughter have
not been carried out. This removes the cold paternal
eye from daughter, and when daughter explains how
her lover tried to shoo her away, all is well. Especi-
ally is it well in view of Pa’s firm announcement
that he will marry them (it is unnecessary, of
course, to explain that he is a parson).
“Spangles”: Mention of Tom Pollard (of the one-
time and long-ago popular opera co.) in a recent
issue of The Bulletin, to the effect that he was
showing signs of getting back to the old love, appears
to be a sound tip. Just at present he is talkiner
occasionally in his sleep about a proposal to get
together, under the management of George Stephen-
son and Alfred Lindley. of Maoriland, a co. to tour
the Loanlv Isles and the small metropolises of Aus-
tralia with “La Poupee,” “A Country Girl,” “In
Town,” “Florodora,” “The Cingalee,” “San Toy”
and some other of the more or less old favorites.
Pollard will be producer and stage-manager if the
scheme matures, and, with ordinary luck, there is no
reason why he shouldn’t be eagerly looked for along
the route of the procession.
“Just a Girl,” the play which Bert Bailey and
Co. commissioned Charles Garvice to do from his
novel of that name, will be produced next March at
the King’s, Melbourne.
A Yankee paper describes a Milan orchestra of
“futurist” musical instruments as consisting of three
buzzers, two boisterous thunderers, three whistlers,
two rustlers, two gurglers and one snorter. But how
about scrapers ?
“Giovanni”: Two members of the English nobility,
the Marchioness Townsend and the Countess of
Warwick, announce that they will do the Empire
the honor of writing plots for its animated pictures.
The Countess is not only going to supply the story,
but intends using Warwick Castle as the scenic back-
ground. A few years ago, she was a prominent
figure in the revolutionary Socialist movement, and
once she threatened to pawn her jewels to assist the
meagre fighting funds. Scandalised comrades, how-
ever, weighed in with their hard-earned cash in time
to prevent the sacrifice. She believes the cinemato-
graph to be a great educational factor, and will keep
that idea before her when writing her scenarios. She
has already completed one, “The Great Pearl Affair,”
based on the recent newspaper sensation. Which
suggests that education is to be mingled with bur-
glaries, murders and kidnapping—things we all
like. The Marchioness made her debut as a scenario
writer some time ago. I paid good money (four-
pence, to be exact) to see one of her masterpieces,
and, having seen it, declare that what is too silly to
be spoken, sung, written, danced or whistled can be
suitably shown on the screen —especially if it is
done by a marchioness.
“P.D.”: My first experience of professionals bob-
bing about among the audience was at the perform-
ance in Paris of the French original of “The Little
Michus.” Just before the end of the first a,ct a
smartly-dressed woman pushed past me and took a
vacant seat at my side. I thought she might well
have waited another minute for the curtain to. fall.
Then, when those of the audience who wished to
stretch their lips had passed out, my neighbor jumped
up and, pointing a finger at a fat Frenchman in one
of the boxes, poured forth a passionate torrent of
words. What she was saying I hadn’t the -vaguest
idea, but concluded that, she had caught an erring
husband on the hop. When I had recovered I sug-
gested to the lady in my best Yorkshire French that
she should calm herself, and, with a restraining hand
on her arm, gently but firmly made her sit down.
Peals of laughter from those around put me wise;
but the mischief was done. She turned her attention
from the fat man (who seemed willing to continue
the conversation) to me, and then 1 realised the
sort of fool I was. At that time, the idea was to
keep the people amused during the intervals. Nowa-
days some managements have all their work cut
out to keep their customers amused between the
intervals; hence the resurrection of the questionable
old caper.
(Continued on page S/j.)
“Geelong”: True, Australian history is
not taught in the Australian Naval College
at Geelong to the lads in their first and
second years (B. 8/1/’ 14) ; but Australian
History and Citizenship will constitute an
important part of the History course towards
the end of the period a boy spends at the
college. The syllabus for the third and
fourth year has not yet been finally ap-
proved ; but this much can be said pretty
confidently even now —the boys will get the
desired training when they have reached an
age to make the instruction the most valu-
able.
“J.R.”
A fine, full-blooded warrior is Huerta, of Mexico.
According to the New York World, he has ex-
pressed the hope “that. Hell will contain both Presi-
dent Wilson and himself before he resigns the Mexican
Presidency.” The same authority mentions that he
has stated that “the people who want to get rid of
him will have to batter his head off his shoulders
before they kill him or his Government.” He is a
soldier of the professional order, having passed
through a military school and served 38 years as
a commissioned officer. Also, he is a pure Aztec.
His first service was with the Engineers, and when
Porfirio Diaz came into power he proposed a plan
for a general survey of the whole country, and also
for the formation of a General Staff. It was
accepted, and Huerta got charge of all the astro-
nomical work of the survey. It is still going on,
and might have given him plenty of interesting and
well-paid employment to the end of his life. He
stuck to the survey work pretty closely till he
became a colonel in 1890, and was appointed to the
General Staff at the capital. Tn 1901 he was sent
against the Yaqui Indians in the North, and when
they were beaten, he was sent to Yucatan against
the Mayas. Those two wars were really only slave-
hunting raids, but they gave him the reputation of
the only man of his day in Mexico with experience
in command. When the rebellion broke out against
Diaz, Huerta was the only possible commander, but
the- revolt was so general that ultimately he had no
choice, after escorting Diaz to Vera Cruz, but to
join Madero. What he did to the Maderos all the
world knows, and what this scientifically-trained Red
Indian thinks of white men the following will
show. The extract is from a speech he made at
a banquet given him in Mexico City:—
“We Mexicans need not be afraid of any foreign
nation. Did we not beat the Spaniards? Did we
not also beat the French, and the Austrians, and the
Belgians, and all the other foreign adventurers who
came with Maximilian ? In the same way we would
have beaten the Gringos had we had a fair chance
at them....To my mind, there are only two real
nations in the world, besides our own Aztec nation.
Those nations are England and Japan. .. .One of
these davs England and Japan and Mexico will get
together, and after that there will be an end to the
United States.”
THE “LITTLE MARY” WALK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the Sydney Tivoli Tango Tea the models parad-
ing with the new fashions all affected the new
walk. —Matter of excited comment in every suburban
household.
Once on a time my lady trod
With tiny feet in slippers shod;
In flowing skirts she took the air
In manner shy and debonair.
How daintily she used to trip!
You never knew she had a hip.
And then she learnt to go the pace ;
She swung along with careless grace ;
Happy and lissom-limbed, intent
On getting there my lady went.
Her skirt was flowing, full and wide;
I loved my lady’s boyish stride.
Then several petticoats she shed ;
My lady learnt to hop instead.
Confined in narrow draperies,
She toddled only from the knees.
Her skirt was tubular and skimp: •
I loved my lady’s hobbled limp.
But now her figure bulges where
To specify I do not dare.
She languishes and sways and sinks;
Her nubbly knees are full of kinks.
And when she walks with hips that sway
Her Little Mary leads the way.
N.s.w.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
THE TERRIBLE CONSEQUENCES OF MIS-
APPLIED ENERGY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have made a study of municipal politics ever
since I was 15.— Statement credited to Sydney’s
latest Lord Mayor by an evening paper.
He was a boy with a bulging brow
Who hated cricket and playtime row.
He sat apart from the mimic strife,
Studying works on municipal life.
More frivolous lads played wrecking trains
While he was deep in his rates and drains.
The shouting pageant of Youth rushed by,
But he read his book with a gleaming eye.
When they paused to rouse him with jibes and quips.
He read them a passage on rubbish-tips—
Till they broke and ran with their books and slates :
Then he turned again to his drains and rates.
The boys who played at their games of chance,
Grew up in a state of ignorance.
Each took from school intellectual gains,
But knew not a thing about rates and drains.
They grew up that way, but they didn’t mind,
For plumbers and such are not hard to find.
But the lad who had studied with all his might
Grew up a Mayor—and it served him right!
N.S.W.
NUISANCE INSPECTOR.


mm
m
“ORIENT” LOUNGE SUITS
A. 21/-
Ready to Wear.
Two-piece Suits, Sac Coat and Trousers. In Drab
Linen with White Stripes, also with Blue or Pale Green
Stripes. These materials are shrunk under special super-
vision in boiling soap and soda water. If washed
according to instructions they will not shrink again.
Wash in Hot, Soapy Water. Do not boil.
All Sizes 217-
CARRIAGE PAID THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
David Jones, Ltd.
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Car
Coss's
Pratt’s Spirit
With Pratt’s your car will run further on each gallon.
Laboratory tests and public trials prove it. This means
More Power under all conditions and less throttle
opening for ordinary work.
Less throttle opening means a sweeter-running engine
and less wear. Try it and prove it.
Insist on your dealer
supplying Pratt’s.
r o'J rn Oil
Z\^ c Pl-yLfd
Throughout the
Commonwealth and
New Zealand.
SOCIETY
From a correspondent in the Speck:
The printers’ strike in Tasmania has reduced the
Hobart Mercury to the dimensions of 40 years ago
—four pages. The same has happened to the still
more ancient Examiner, of Launceston, and neither
iournal is able to express its indignation in the
limited space at our disposal.” The Daily Post
(Hobart) and the Daily Telegraph (Launceston)
are in similarly reduced circumstances, and their
remarks on current events, including the strike, are,
“owing to pressure on our advertising space, ex-
tremely abbreviated. The linotype operators are
demanding 34d. per thousand “ens ’ (present rate,
3d.), and the weekly hands £3 6s. (present rate,
£3). The newspaper proprietors and the other
master-printers reckon the industry will not stand
the rise, and the result is a strike and short-measure
news-sheets for breakfast. The employers offered the
“provincial” rates —3jd. for lino. men and £3 2s.
for jobbing hands. These rates have, in fact, ruled
in Launceston for the past month or two, but are
being paid under protest, pending the establishment
of a printers’ Wages Board. The Board is authorised
by Parliament, but the employees are studiously
refraining from nominating representatives, and the
Board cannot get itself formed. The employers,
pressed hy the directors of the Paii.y Post, also
offered to refer the whole dispute to arbitration, with,
if necessary, a Judge as chairman. Both proposals
were emphatically turned down by the strikers, who
thereby suggested that they have very little faith in
their capacity to persuade independent people that
they have justice on their side. At time of writing,
a couple of Australian Typographical Union officials
from Melbourne are in Hobart trying to effect a
settlement; but as the employers reckon on being
able to maintain their present output, and gradually
increase the supply of printed news, and as the
strikers have already refused to accept arbitration,
the chances of an early ending of the dispute are
not bright. The Launceston employers have actually
carried the war into the opposite camp by notifying
a reduction from the “provincial” rates above-men-
tioned to the Ilobart rate. Things now begin to
look interesting, and if, as seems likely, Melbourne
and other mainland newspapers proprietors decide
to extend a hand to their hard-pushed brethren across
the Strait, the trouble may become serious. In this
latter event, however, the Higgins department may
take hold of the problem and find a solution IHI
then, under the asinine provision of the Constitution
which bars the Arbitration Court interfering in a
one-State dispute, Justice Higgins must stand aside
and let the Hell-brotli brew.
* * * *
The trials of the mummers’ profession
were added to last week by a judgment of
Divorce Justice Gordon (N.S.W.), in the
case of a petitioner who brought a divorce
suit against her husband on the grounds of
beer and desertion. The said issues weie
proved, but the petitioner fell at the hurdle
of domicile. She is, or was, an actress on
the Williamson circuit, and, owing to the
nomadic character of her profession, hasn’t
resided long enough in any one State to nrove
domicile within the meaning of any State
Act. Justice Gordon’s verdict certainly re-
ferred only to the Ma State, but the lady
would be confronted with the same dilemma
in every other part of the Commonwealth,
and, although she has lived for years in Aus-
tralia, she may not obtain freedom from what
the Judge described as a “very disreputable,
drunken husband, who failed to support
her.” In other words, State rights are of
great assistance to the social dissolute as
well as the political driveller, but they are a
maddening handicap to the sober and the
intelligent citizen. # #
“Billy T.” : Macaulay, of Tyup, was lucky
enough to get one of the immigrant girls.
He said it was influence did it. He knew
two members of Parliament, and was on
speaking terms with an aide-de-camp. The
domestic’s name was Flora Amelia, and she
HOT STUFF.
"Rachel, I vould go through fire for you.”
“ Yesh, I key, I pelieve you. But are you veil
insured?”
came from Berkshire. Macaulay asked her
about cows, and she gave him to understand
that she was well acquainted with the
species. “Do you know pigs? ’ asked Mac.
Did she know pigs, indeed! “Why,” she
said, “I never lived wi’ anyone else!”
Macaulay is now inclined to believe it. AVhen
Flora Amelia had been on the job a fort-
night, Mrs. Mac returned from her visit to
her mother. She took one horrified look at
the kitchen, and sat down gasping. “Why,
girl,” she said, “you haven’t scrubbed this
room for a week. You haven’t even swept
it.” “No, mum,” said Flora Amelia, “but
I raked it yesterday.”
HOW WOMEN LOVE ONE ANOTHER.
MISS OLDUN : “Em going to the Smiths dance as Springtime, Just the thing for me,
don’t you think?”
MISS SMART: “ Well, since you’re going in for that sort of thing, I should have thought
something in the way of autumn leaves! ”
“A III.’s” recollections of an old enemy :
The curse of the Iscariots of Cohennesburg still
lingers. The s.s. Templemore, twelve years ago one
of the largest and finest transports in the food-tor-
nowder trade between Australia and S. Africa, caught
fire in the North Atlantic recently, and was aban-
doned by the crew. Later the owners were informed
that the fire had gone out, and that the big old linei
had been brought into port, a choice bit of salvage,
bv an entire stranger. The bill ‘was something
horrible The Templemore’s first Australian cargo
consisted of the fifth Queensland Bushmen, and it
was a hoodoo ship to them all right. It found the
plague waiting at Capetown and had to hunt lounu
for another landing-place. After minor smashes and
breakages two men of the regiment were shot by
their mates one night on the Oliphants River, then
the light waggon containing the rum supply was
lost, and, after that, 95 per cent, of the horses died
of horse-sickness or horse-cough or some old thing.
Next the cyclist company—the first seen in the b.
African cockpit—had such painful experiences that
it had to be provided with horses when horses were
dead scarce. Amid other troubles there came a long
and sustained casualty list, which finally totalled up
to more than those of all the other Queensland corps
combined. In the end somebody even made the
officer commanding a C.M.G. s
Melbourne’s most recent gaol-breaker is
an annoyance and a humiliation of excep-
tional magnitude in the eye of the harassed
local Hop. His name is Clarke, and he
first reached the limelight through casually
walking out of a cell at the City Court,
which a trusting John omitted to lock, ihat
cost the John a fiver, and brought a rebuke
on two others who, while allegedly guarding
the court doors, let Clarke oiyt under the
delusion that he was a Gent. One. lime
passed, and the learned that the elusive
one was about to wed. The Force turned up
at the appointed place and arrested one who
explained wearily that he didn’t even know
Clarke, and was merely a heavy father
come to give his daughter away. Ihe
sleuths left in quest of Clarke, and presently
had the astounding good fortune, or gotten
luck (call it which you will) to find him
talking to a mate at a street corner, about
politics or predestination, or what not. lhey
fell on him in a solid and enthusiatic lump
or body. But he, being a lusty, young
wharf-laborer, in good condition, gave them
far more than they wished for. Some he
felled to the earth, others he heaved against
a post, and then he slipped his coat and faded
into the eioigkeit. He is there still. Ihe
community is inclined to be mirthful about
the proceedings —all, that is, but the Chiet
John, who is considering whether to fine nis
henchmen 2s. 6d. or sack them outright. The
next time the Law catches Clarke it will
place the Auditorium on him while it fastens
him with a ship’s hawser to the public debt
or something else equally solid. He is not
the sort of defendant to trifle with.
“S.S.” : I see it mentioned in a recent
cable, conveying details of the Society divorce
case, Vereker v. Vereker, that “remarks
made in the visiting book disclosed a low
moral tone.” This reminds me of a month-
old letter from a bright young Australian
who has been grazing on John Bull’s run
lately. “At pompous houses in the country,
she says, “they have visitors’ books in which
you are expected to jot down amusing trines.
You should see some of them—whew ! lhe
newest and bluest stories are all there.
Hence the new title, ‘The Blue Book. Ap-
parently the up-to-date visiting book is some-
thing in the nature of naughtygraph album.
THE SYDNEY VIEW.
STOUT : "Hot!”
LEAN: "This is nuthin'! It's a ’ undred an
twenty in Bourke! ”
STOUT : “Thank Heaven it’s in bourke."
Who says the parson can’t be up-to-date
and on-the-nail! The subject advertised for
the discourse at a Scotchbytenan kirk at
Albury or thereabouts on Christmas bunday
was “Turkey’s place in God’s programme.
THE BLUE-WATER EXPERT EXPLAINS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The day was altogether unsuitable for sailing, the
light southerly, which prevailed up till about 2 p.m.,
gradually grew lighter and lighter, and the two
afternoon events were sailed in a calm, with very
fine, misty rain, the yacht race not finishing until
after 11 p.m.—Exhilarating sporting item.
Oh, talk not to me of the motor-car’s speed !
Of the world-skimming ’plane 1 have no wish to
read —
The motor-bike’s whiz as it sails round the course,
To the blue-water expert appeals with scant force —-
No ! No !
Yo — heave —ho !
Give me breezes that blow,
And a motion that’s dignified, easy and slow.
As a blue-water expert of tonnage and style,
Mechanical racing I look on as vile ;
Then to Hades with levers and engines and screws ;
Such aids to propulsion I sternly refuse —
Yesl Yes!
And the mess
Of the oil—and the stress
Of the toil 1 Is it pleasant ? I leave you to guess.
With an eighteen-foot cutter, all shipshape aloft,
And a southerly breeze blowing gentle and soft,
And a nice, well-bred crew, and some ladies dressed
gay,
And packed ferry-steamers, I’ll race you all day I
So! So 1
Yo — heave —ho !
If true joy you would know,
Come a-yachting with me when the zephyrs just
blow!
A long reach to wind’ard (the wind’s failing fast)
A tack — Crack! What’s that? Oh, the sail hit
the mast!
It's a calm.... What a shame! Well, there’s
plenty of tea ;
Pass the spirit-stove aft there!... .No ; whisky for
me!... .
Oh, my!
See the sky!
It’s quite grey there, up high!
We’ve stopped !... .Here’s a mist!. .. .There 11 be
rain by-and-bye!
A faint puff—a ripple—a sigh—and a creak
IVe moved seven inches!. . . .Did anyone speak?. .. .
Oh, whistle, please, someone!..../ saw the flag
wave !....
The mist’s getting thicker! —now, ladies, be
brave !... .
A —hoy ! ! !. ...
D—• that buoy !
What’s the time, McEvoy?
Half-past eight!..Oh, where are we? Is this
Collaroy ?
*By Jove! the fog’s thinning! Stand by, there, you
chaps!
Hark! Isn’t that something ?.... A motor, per-
haps !... .
Ahoy !. .. .AVe’re becalmed !... .Yes —we do want a
tow !. . . .
What, after eleven ?. . . . Get all sail below !. ...
All fast!
Off at last!. .. .
He must make a wide cast—
Yes, ladies, we’ll be there at twelve, or half-past!
As a blue-water expert, I frankly admit
That when there’s no wind it annoys me a bit;
But, still, for pure racing the motor-boat fails,
In the picturesque sense, with the boat that has
sails —
Ay! Ay!
You just try!
Why the hours swiftly fly!... ■
’Tis surprising how quickly the day passes by,
So long as the weather is breezy and dry !
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
WHETHER FOR
PYJAMAS or SHIRTS
nothing just
so comfy as
SilOStria
(Regd.)
Flaooel
IT WILL NOT SHRINK.
.✓f
/
&
%
1
/l
r
m
lool^
&
V
3
THE "NO-VESTE” mi SUITS
FOR THE HOLIDAYS AND AFTER.
Another holiday is approaching.
Men who visit the beaches and the various week-end holiday resorts would
appreciate the comfort, coolness and smart appearance of “No-veste” Flannel
Suits. They are inexpensive and easily washed.
Therefore they are the ideal holiday garments.
S.B. SAC SUIT, 3-Button Coat, plain back, 3 pockets,
Trousers with plain bottoms. In plain or neatly-striped
mid. or dark grey Flannel
Mention chest, waist and inside leg measurements when writing.
Patterns and New Catalogue on request
25/=
PEAPES (a CO. LTD.
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
■* * * *
Tamwortli (N.S.W.) had a slice of tor-
nado last week. The slice was a mile wide,
and everything in the way of the wind leaped
or somersaulted into the air and either fell
flat at once, or else proceeded to roll, rush
and stagger in three directions at once with
its ears and hair blown forward and its tail
(or the shreds thereof) well down between
its legs. A man who was on top of a load
of hay was thrown into the air, and, while
WANT OF CLOTHES MARES THE
MAN.
“Don't you know him?"
“I can't tell him in these clothes , but he re-
minds me of a man I met surf bathing
last summer."
his load dispersed like smoke, he shot through
a fence and started to blow home without his
hat. Ancient trees jumped from their moor-
ings like nervous curates who had forgotten
an important date with the bishop; and
squealing pigs floated round gracefully like
thistledown. Its few moments of joy and
movement cost the district several thousand
pounds; but it was worth it to feel like
Paris mad drunk fighting Berlin and Vienna
with both hands tied behind its back.
The “gentler sex” got in some good work
in Sydney the other evening. One minis-
tering angel hit the other over the head with
a beer bottle, which broke at the neck. But
the proceedings didn’t terminate there. The
lady who held the weapon attacked her sis-
ter with the glass razor-pitchfork and jabbed
her about 20 times in the face. Then obvi-
ously it was time for the “sterner sex to
take a hand and gather up the remnants of
the thoughtless combatant who hadn t pro-
vided herself with a bottle. Just as the
policeman arrived, the dear creature who
had done the damage was pulled off and
assisted into a cab by one of Nature’s dukes
who remembered his manners and the de-
ference due to a perfect lady even in the
midst of slaughter.
* * * *
F. E. Meleng, secretary to the Institutes
Association of South Aus., is putting in a
fortnight in Melbourne and Sydney, with the
threefold mission of buying books, picking up
hints, and giving information about the
body he represents, which stands out right
by itself among Australian things of the
kind. Pretty well every S.A. township has
an “Institute,” which governs itself, but gets
a Government grant, and affiliates itself with
the Association in Adelaide. There are 220
affiliated at present. The ruling body is a
council of 10, half appointed by the Govern-
ment, and half elected by the “Institutes,”
which send representatives to a big general
meeting in the city every September Show-
time. The council spends at least £5OO on
books each year, and sends them round in
boxes of 60, an “Institute” getting a change
every three or four months. These boxes are
specially chosen for the popular taste but so
as to set it on the upward grade, and they
contain no fiction. Good engravings and
autotypes are circulated in the same way. The
council has a list of lecturers, who will go
wherever requisitioned, and talk on their pet
subjects, from Shakebacon to poultry-farm-
ing. Also, it has a reference library, which
can be drawn on- from anywhere in the back-
blocks. The whole thing used to be under
control of the Public Library and Art Gal-
lery Board, but it grew too big. and was
elevated into a separate association. Its
easy-working machinery would be worth
copying in other States.
From one of the oldest of Melbourne
pressmen:—
In a Melbourne church paper this week it is weep-
ingly recorded that candidates for the Christmas free
feed turned up Drunk. The circumstance leads me
to declare that the Melbourne free banquets this
Christmas were humbug.
It was the most prosper-
ous Christmas Melbourne
has ever known —in my
long day, certainly. The
eleemosynaries were su-
perfluous. Of course cases
of real hardship ought to
be sought and relieved.
But I say the big free
feeds were only puffs for
religious side-shows. In
effect: “See the great
work we are doing!
Blow the trumpet. Care-
fully put to paper every
bowl of skilly, hominy
and burgoo given away as
a meal. Justify the ex-
pensive staffs.” These
charities have a set of
hangers-on like the “sub-
jects” taken round by
the hypnotic lecturer, and
extra demonstrations had
to be given in Melbourne
this Christmas because
Premier Watt’s Charity
Organisation Bill is in
pickle. He proposes to
nip out canvassers who
get 25 per cent, of the
donations, of which not
50 per cent, reach the
sufferers, many of whom
don’t suffer, because even
the fragment of the money
that is rescued often goes
in the wrong direction.
So a number of extra-
sober men and women
with money in the bank
came along for the free
feeds, and no questions
were asked. The object
heing, of course, to mag-
nify the terrible poverty,
brethren, in our midst,
and the great need to
maintain Us in our pres-
ent positions.
The Australian doesn’t learn to be casual
—he’s born that way. At the Jolimont
railway bridge (Melb.) lately William Moore
(aged 10) and his bicycle had an argument
with a post, and the youngster got the worst
of it with a broken leg. Another nipper
happened along pulling a hand-cart, and
when he got the details of the smash he
helped the wounded hero to clamber into the
vehicle. Then he cheerfully started to do
the long plod to Fitzroy, where Moore lived.
Near Fitzroy Gardens someone sighted the
ambulance, came to the rescue and took the
cripple to the hospital; whereupon the kid
and the cart disappeared in the crowd. And
unlike many Good Samaritans they left no
address. All that is known is that a plod-
ding philanthropist about the height of 2d.
appeared at a crisis, and evaporated when
the crisis was over.
Last week three zealous Victorian Hops
arrested a dilapidated lady named Florrie
Phelan for freedom of speech. They all
swore, with somewhat suspicious unanimity,
that they had seen her repeatedly round the
streets during the last month. Coming
THE REPEATED CORPSE.
ENRAGED COCKY: “Was it yous killed that dorg o' mine?"
SECOND DITTO: “Yes. An' if he comes into my paddock any more after my sheep I’ll
kill him agin."
down to details, Miss Phelan asked each of
her accusers if he had seen her round
town the previous Wednesday. Even as
lambs being dragged to the slaughter, they
swore that they had. It was a simple mat-
ter for the harassed female to then prove
to the beak that she had been doing 14 days’
gaol at the time mentioned. Feebly, and
after the fashion of one who has been biffed
with a heavy brick, his Wasliup expressed the
aspiration that the Force would be “more
careful in future.” As a matter of fact,
there shouldn’t be any future, in the Force,
for those three. “The crime of perjury,” as
any of their Supreme Court Honors would
put it, “strikes at the foundations of justice
and the bases of society; its increasing pre-
valence causes grave alarm,” etc., etc. If
three ordinary citizens had been thus bowled
out in an attempt to swear away the liberty
of another, the Law’s haste to lay an infor-
mation against them for perjury would have
been painful to witness. Wherefore——
“Nestor”: The N.S.W. Government has
just set up another office for its new Public
Trustee in Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh-
street, Sydney. This about completes the
higgledy-piggledyness of Ma’s public offices,
The man who does business with the State
Departments of N.S.W. has to have lots o’
time, as the offices are distributed all over
the place, and are divided by magnificent
distances. No wonder the old road-and-
bridge members suffered from varicose veins
and palpitation of the heart as well as
talkers’ cramp. Some of the offices are in
huge, ill-ventilated, ill-lighted, insanitary
buildings in various parts of Macquarie,
Loftus, Elizabeth, Phillip, King and other
streets. Some are in terraces and private
houses. Now a modern office-building will
house the Public Trustee about a quarter of
a mile from the Probate offices and Court.
In all the other States, I believe, the public
buildings are either in one block or in ad-
joining buildings. In London you don’t have
to go far from one department to another—-
they are all round about Whitehall and near
Parliament House. In Vienna and Berlin
it is the same. The Melbourne grouping of
public offices is admirable, as it is also in
Brisbane and Adelaide. Some years ago the
well-known architect, Colonel Vernon, ad-
vised the resumption of the Bent, Phillip,'
Bridge and Macquarie streets block to be
used as an administrative area, in which all
the public buildings should be placed. It
would have been a fine scheme, as a,noble
group of buildings could have been created,
giving a good effect on the sky-line as the
visitor entered the harbor. It is not too
late. Then there is another commanding
site, that of Darlinghurst Gaol, where the
whole of the public offices, law. courts, etc.,
could be placed. The ugly and unsuitable
Lands Office and Colonial Secretary’s Office
could then be turned into wool stores or
picture shows.
Woman has unbounded faith in sal-
volatile. A party was bathing off the sands
at Elwood (Vic.) the other Sunday morn-
ing, when an excited female arrived, bran-
dishing an umbrella, and yelling for police
and general assistance. The others dashed
out, seven of them, in scant neck-to-knee.
The excited lady took a fresh gulp of atmo-
sphere, and gasped: “Has anyone got any
smelling salts? Over there there’s a poor
woman drowned herself!”
BROTHERS IN OATHS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Defendant subsequently went into the witness box
and flatly contradicted the three constables. She
stated that she was in prison on the day mentioned.
Upon inquiry, it was found that the woman’s state-
ment was correct, and the charge was withdrawn.
Commenting on the extraordinary fact of three
policemen swearing emphatically to a statement that
was demonstrated to be false, Mr. Tanner, P.M., said
the officers of the police force should be more careful,
particularly in charges of vagrancy, where the onus
of proving their innocence was thrown upon the
accused persons. He hoped the police would be much
more careful in future. — Melbourne Age.
Policeman Soloist :
It is a splendid thing to see
Official unanimity !
We never-never have a doubt!
Invariably we agree!
If A can prove he wasn’t there,
We let him out on bail,
For (on our oaths!) we do not care
To rush folk into gaol.
Chords of Policemen :
We swear!—We swear we do not care
To rush folk into gaol! ( Lively dance.')
Soloist :
Coincidences will occur.
We never talk it over, sir!
But one can always find a pal
To say lie, too, saw him —or her.
I make no meek excuses for
This simple fact —not me!
We are the guardians of the law,
And nicely we agree.
Chorus :
We are the guardians of the law,
And, oh 1 we must agree ! ( More dancing,
while the case breaks down, and someone calls
for an inquiry.)
C.S.A.
G. WASHINGTON.
THE RACE OF THE STRONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mary McLaren, wife of a Presbyterian minister of
Northcote (Vic.), prosecuted a man named Leslie
Williams on a charge of stealing £l, which had
been entrusted to him to back Rose Muriel for a race
at Richmond at 5 to 1. In cross-examination, Mrs.
McLaren said that she was a freelance, ariS so was
her husband. She did as she liked. The Church
did not pay her husband sufficient to support her;
not even enough to keep himself decently. Mr.
McLaren got his share of the winnings by its inclu-
sion in household finance.— Police-court report.
O £ord, the race is not unto the swift,
Nor batt£e to the strong,
Round Jack Wren’s racecourse the s£ow horses
drift!
How £ong, O £ord? How £ong?
O £ord, the services are ten to seven!
(Rose Murie£’s five to one —
With ten bob on, my winnings would be Heaven,
When Rose’s race is run.)
Dorcas must bet, for an apost£e, broke
And £eft so in the £urch;
Pray for a winning, and a speedy moke
To supp£ement the Church.
The. batt£e to the strong is not, nor race
Unto the swift —’tis wrong !
Yet Fate sha £ £ give the impudent a £ ift—-
The race to the Dead Strong!
N.SOV.
MARTIN LUTHER.


The new Governor of Victoria, Hon.
Arthur Lyulph Stanley, is a remarkably
good-looking young man, who will be
extremely popular with the ladies. He
is by far the best-looking Governor Mel-
bourne has had within the memory of
the present generation. —“Age.
Rebo rier Haye you ~
-to Convey 1o ifie vic*toriV> |»eoJs/e, youv Excellency. ,
H:is Ex. . Oh, yes* Rit’wie vnon(> s>»rls
Mr. Watt can draw jup a political bill
of fare with singular dexterity.
Ms/xVftne
f Willie?
"A n i7MmT?eir
haye occurred in A^s'tWU
On-isWj r fKews )te m )
< ]h&.
{ sox
Prokss° l ' L Rewtoal &r
ArcM>isVo|> CWke li2>yjl?een
A\>bointe<i in "Hie O*"»non-
JeVljft Vmy, (.Dvty-ftHrjjw,
v Would be Oiner (testily)
k \or ©ors*Ke when AXe,
t yo»%no -to
\ \ 'io eal
The policy of the Watt government
which P^f^ 0 # e£
the V p"es as much political power as
}ow motiving in the cities.
Rev Urry Rentou|~ We fi§h't“ >
J i>«f 3»*>s«> ! >rw«.
(a^c)
POLITICAL, SOCIAL AND GRUESOME (FROM VICTORIA).


THE HOG IN THE MANGER.
'This very year New South Wales will gather its record wheat harvest, and the (difficulty will be to find means of `getting it to the metropolis, where a substantial part
of the crop is consumed, and from which most of the surplus is exported. —Sydney T ELEGRAPH.
SYDNEY: “I know I can’t consume it all, but I’m d— d if I’ll give you any. I’d rather choke first.”


Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
Now ready, the cloth edition of Mr. J. Edmond’s
“A Journalist and Two Bears.” From all book-
sellers or direct from the Platypus Press, 117
Bathurst Street, Sydney; 3/6 post free.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
(fSoxxWww^
WORLD-FAMED
HATS.
For
QUALITY,
For
DURABILITY,
NABOB BOOT PASTE,,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney, n
/•
EVERY DAY
more people are proving that
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes.
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SYDNEY.
r
\ i
i7.<7 •
/W»
PERSONAL
ITEMS
M.U.A. Jewell, of Brunswick (Vic.),
who climbed into the State House in the
tracks of Frank Anstey, now M.11.R., is a
butcher by profession. Wherefore he spoke
as an expert when recently he reproved
John Murray for describing ex-Premier
Elmslie’s memorandum to the Lieut.-Gov.
as “tripe.” Jewell is a brief, fleshy, good-
humored person of uncertain age, suspected
of being younger than he looks, _ and
wears a shabby hat. As a logician he is all
right, but as a platform-expounder of his
logical conclusions he is as dry as baked
FOOD.
“If in my own little way I have helped the com-
missariat department, I thank God for the privilege
of doing it.” —Anglican Archdeacon liindley, in Melb.
sawdust. One of the main points in his
favor as an M.L.A. is that he knows a
Meat Trust when he sees one, and being
seized of the facts about Swift, Armour,
Cudahy and Co., would, if he got the
chance, certainly make some attempt to
smite the invading combination with a
cleaver, instead of turning on hot air, which
is the most that Liberalism is doing at
present.
James Buekland, probably the last of the
drivers of the goldfields coaches in the days
of the “diggings,” died last week, in his 90th
year. He arrived in Melbourne in 1851,
followed gold-mining for a time, and then
joined Cobb and Co. After a probation he
took the box-seat, drove the mail between
Ivilmore and Ileathcote, and had some ex-
perience of “road agents,” notably at the
time when the McTvor escort was robbed.
That was a bungled business though, and
three of the robbers were suspended. Buck-
land always maintained that a large part
of the loot was hidden in the granite tors near
Pyalong, and many a hunt for it was made.
But if anybody ever drew anything but a
blank he said nothing.
A GUBERNATORIAL TOON-BAIL
Heir to a peerage, statesman, lawyer, citizen,
soldier, man of affairs, and good all round sportsman is
the Hon. Arthur Lyulph Stanley, the new Governor
of Victoria. —London correspondent of daily paper.
THE KID: “ We've struck a bosker this trip!”
Died at her old home on the Parramatta
River (N.S.W.), Mrs. Mary Ann Watson,
aged 86. She was the daughter of Thomas
Charles Farneil, whose wife was a daughter
of James Squire, a First Fleeter who settled
at Kissing Point. Squire was from the
fields of Surrey and grew the first Austra-
lian hops. (Governor King was very anxi-
ous upon the subject of hops; in his
despatches he pleaded for constant consign-
ments of the vegetable, as he had doubts
whether the colony could be established
except on the firm foundation of its own
beer.) On proving that he could grow
hops at Kissing Point, Squire was rewarded
with the rich gift of a cow from the Govern-
ment herd. Successful in hop growing, he
next established the first Australian brew-
ery, with the approbation of the Governor.
Mrs. Watson was a sister of the late James
Squire Farneil, one-time Premier of N. S.
Wales. She lived the greater part of her
life at Marina —the spot often referred to
in the history of the Parramatta River dis-
trict as Kissing Point, where grand-dad’s
original brewery stood.
Captain Quintal, who has been recently re-
instated in his old billet of Commandant of
the Norfolk Island Constabulary, is a lineal
descendant of a more or less famous Bounty
mutineer. He did well in S’Africa with one
of the N.S.W. regiments, making his way
up to the command of a com-
pany. His chief characteristics
in those days were an inscrut-
able eye, the “nerve” of a com-
pany promoter, a remarkable
proficiency at draw-poker, and a
drawl that would trip a boa-
constrictor. One night, in the
mess of the M.I. depot at Pre-
toria, Quintal gave to a group
of subalterns his reason for
turning his pruning-hook into a
sword. Said he : “You see—l
had a ba-na-na plant-a-tion in
Fiji. One daay came a hur-ri-
cane and blew it all to the blue,
bounds of beg-gar-y.” “To
where?” said a voice from behind
a newspaper. “Beg-gar-y, sir.” said Quin-
tal sweetly. “Ru-in, imoec-u-ni-osity.” “Ah,
quite so, quite so!” said the mollified padre,
returning to his paper. “Amazin’ the names
you fellows give some of your places, to be
sure —eh, what?”
John McGorrery, one-time of Ulster, where
the Orange grows, one of the three surviving
members of the John McDouall Stuart Ex-
pedition (1861-2), died at Adelaide on Fri-
day, in his 73rd year. He came to Aus-
tralia at 10 years of age, and learned black-
smithing from his father —leafned it so well
that his skill in farriery won for him his
place in the McDouall Stuart party. There
are now only two of his companions left—
Stephen King, of Norwood (S.A.), and
John Billiatt, for many years a school-
teacher in S. Aus., at present taking his ease
in England.
Matthew Henry. Stephen, retired N.S.W.
judge, is the “father” of the Australian Bar:
he was admitted to practice in 1850.
from the sign of the Rainbow
Though E. W. Cole, of the Book Arcade, was/ 82
on the 4th inst. his energy is not quenched nor his
capacity greatly lessened for turning out water-
like literary matter, suitable for putting in a gold-
and-crimson cover and lodging permanently in the
bookcases of the backblocks. Years ago, in a spirit
of .attempted derision, a visiting critic named a brace
of Australians as being this country’s leading poets.
“Australia’s third-best poet,” declared the critic, “is
Edward Cole.” Cole, as a swift business man, used
this in his advertisements until it was all frayed at
the edges, and refused to hang together in the .middle,
He still attends, at the Arcade and moves around
there; but his right-hand man, also his left-hand
help, is Charles Pike, of No. 1 Desk. On him the old
man leans when any distressing person arrives with
an order for a ton of Bibles or 2cwt. of the Pansy
Series. Cole himself prefers to. stuff away in a
corner, with an assistant, and scissor out affection-
ate extracts from Ella Wheeler Wilcox and Mrs.
Henians, which he puts together in a volume, calls
“Love Blooms” or “Thoughts that Trickle,” and sells
at one-and-three a time. And he makes his Blooms
and Trickles pap.
Died at Concord (N.S.W.) on January
5, Mrs. Louisa Learmonth, an old Austra-
lian native. She was the eldest pf the 10
children of that Dr. Ramsay who married
Sarah Ann, the daughter of Simeon Lord,
and got with her 400 acres at Dobroyde,
known a few years ago as Ramsay’s Bush,
and now as the thickly-peopled suburb of'
Haberfield. Mrs. Learmonth’s husband was
senior of the old-time firm of Learmonth,
Dickenson & Co.
From the Oldest Inhabitant: —
Application will presently be made in N. S. Wales
to seal the will of Fanny l)e W’inton, late of Putney,
in the County of Surrey, England, widow, deceased.
In 1841, at the age of 17, George Jean de Winton
entered the 99tli Regiment as ensign, and two years
later came to llobart in the barque Constant, in charge
of the convict guard. The surgeon-superintendent
was Dr. Hampton, afterwards Governor of Westralia.
(Almost any kind of ordinary person did as a West-
ralian Governor in the early days, and the State
didn’t even attain to the awesome dignity of having
a K.C.M.G. at Government House till Bill Robin-
son’s time, and Bill’s intermediate name was Cleaver,
which suggested the butchering business.) After
landing her live cargo at Hobart Town, the vessel
went on to Sydney, and the military detach-
ment joined headquarters in the George-street
barracks. After serving at various stations de Win-
ton was selected to command a detachment sent to
the projected new settlement at Port Curtis, under
Colonel Barney, tie and his men went in the Thomas
Lowry ; Barney, his family and officials, in the Lord
Auckland. The latter being wrecked on Facing
Island, de Winton had the doubtful honor of being
the first to land on the projected settlement. The /
Barney expedition ended in a fiasco, and Douglas
Sladen is suspected of having written a poem about
it, but this final grievance is uncertain. De Winton
and his men returned to Moreton Bay. After that
lie was in Sydney, then at Norfolk Island, and in
1854 he volunteered for the Crimea, where he served.
For some years he edited Colburn’s United Service
Magazine, and until his death a few years ago (aged
90 or thereabouts) he was a contributor to the press.
In 1848 he married at Brisbane a daughter of Thomas
White Melville Winder, of Windermere, Hunter
River, N. S. Wales. Presumably it is this lady’s will
which is to he sealed by the N. S. Wales Court. Tt
is a far cry from the beginning of this story to the
end, but the end has been reached at last.
Sydney's new LORD MAYOR RICHARDS
lays aside the robes of office ami cleans things up.
Just faded into retirement from the Vic.
Government Service,, after close on half a
century of it (47 years odd, to be exact),
John Mae Gibbon, a notable Secretary for
Lands. John had the Service at heart and
the Land Acts by heart. It is averred that
when in a particularly abandoned mood, and
in want of a little diversion, he would grab
some other Acts and study them. As Sweeney,
the poet of the Department, has aptly re-
corded in a valedictory verse, “he found
a rapture in routine,” and as he vanishes over
the official horizon the worst thing flung at
him is “Grand old chap,” combined with the
opinion that it will be mighty hard to fill his
place.
Jim Griffiths, the hardworking man of
Omeo (Vic.), Avho was arrested on a charge
of being a longtime escaped convict and put
into a cell under the guard of an armed
constable, was bluffed into accepting £26 as
full compensation for the nolice’s treatment
of him. Apart from the scandalous foolish-
ness of this mistaken-identity case the mere
circumstances of Griffiths’ “capture” w’ere
unpardonable. The man had been resident
for years on the land at Omeo. It was as
easy for the police to get him as to dig up a
bit of the soil. Yet he was “captured” with
as much display of force and precaution as
though lie were a dangerous-looking char-
acter who had just come mysteriously into
the neighborhood with a gun.
McKENZIE, Minister of Lands (Vic.)
Tom Adamson, one of the toughest. Bat-
tlers through the Maori wars, is dead. Age,,
69. He was born in Maoriland, and started,
after Henare’s well-earned scalp when he-
was 17, as a member of the Wanganui
militia. He was six months with that
column, and a lovely picnic it was, lighting
through the heavy bush and swamps, each
man carrying provisions and arms and.
blanket and about 150 rounds of ammuni-
tion. After that Adamson joined the cele-
brated Forest Rangers, and fought in five-
big engagements against the Hau Ilaus in,
retaliation for the murder of parson Volk-
ner. That job of vengeance took 12 months..
Returning to Wanganui, he was successively
with the infantry against that high-class;
savage Titokowaru, with the cavalry and:
the scouts. It was as a scout in the Urewera:
country that he made his name a household!
curse amongst the Hau Haus, and it was;
there he earned the Maoriland Cross for
Valor. Adamson was a hospitable man, but
he wasn’t free with his reminiscences of
those days. They were tough times, and!
some loose characters —also a good many-
tight characters —were at large.
From an old N.S.W. Gallery hand: —
William Stephen, the “Botany Bunyip,” who has
died at 84, was the type of man who nearly always-
achieves what he sets , his heart on. In the first place,
he doesn’t aim too high ; in the_ next, he puts every
ounce of his weight into the object before him. He-
Spent 10 years in N.S.AV. Parliament, and his whole
energy there was devoted to the interests of Botany.
It was a swamp, but he foresaw a time when the
edge of the bay would be turned into gardens and
residential sites. His appearance was a little peculiar
and his croaking voice more so, and he did not often
rise to expatiate on the beauty of the swamp before
the gay spirits of the House got busy on him.
“Willy” didn’t mind, however, as long as he ex-
tracted a promise from somebody to some day
reclaim some damp area and give most
beautiful district” a chance. In general politics he
didn’t count, but in voting he was a solid Parkesite,
believing that the Liberals would be most likely to
do justice to Australia’s most beautiful district. He
was a most valuable alderman for the same reason—
his one-ideaed intentness. He knew every foot of
swamp and sandhill, every place where a drain
should be cut, and every yard of the shore line
which could be improved. It wasn’t a spectacular
life that he lived; still he had his use and his value.
THE PURSUIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On Friday, Mr. A. A. Billson (Victorian ex-Min-
ister for Education and three other departments)
met a number of Ins supporters and referred to his
non-inclusion in the reconstructed Watt Government
....He stated that his only complaint was the way
in which he was disposed of. He appeared to he
thrown out simply to gratify the wishes of the pur-
suing wolves. —Melbourne Age.
The Tory chariot swings upon the same old stretch of
track ;
Upon the same old trip that brings
The same old cart with broken springs—
Well, where?
And there,
Upon the same old crazy cart,
With tremors in each selfish heart.
Like flies embalmed in amber, sit packed Tories,
looking back.
Their eyes are ever backward on the track where pads
apace,
With ail the speed of snails that scoot,
The wild pack, panting in pursuit.
Ahead
There’s dread ;
Yet still the stout old Tories starr
In fear, far ever rearwards, where
Like garden-slugs a-gallop come the Slowgress-wolves,
in chase.
Wild earthworms move no faster than the wolves to
the attack
Upon the wobbling chariot, which
Is mostly bumping in the ditch —-
Ding-dong
Along,
Like racing limpets, at their top.
Can Socialist or Tory stop
The crab-like on-crawl of the wolves, Slowgressing
down the track ?
VICTOItIA.
FRANK HENTY.


CHAMPION
TOBACCO
m
»
.
m
4Ji
THE KING’S CHOICE.
AN END TO MOULDY OR DRY TOBACCO!!
“ CHAMPION ” is not only guaranteed to open up as sound as when packed,
but IMPROVES BY KEEPING.
SEALED OR UNSEALED TINS.
THE
PIPE
OF QUALITY-
«n
CLMN)
[V er/ P j P e Gulra m M


TO STOREKEEPERS
Why Carry Large Stocks of Single Cylinder Double Acting Power Pumps, when we can deliver
one or one dozen as you order from our stock?
Write to use for prices on the DEANE Model A., Single Cylinder Double Acting Power Pumps,
with Brass-lined Cylinders
AGENTS in every State. If not in stock in your State, applv to—
SIMPSON BROTHERS, 32-34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
COUNTRY AGENTS REQUIRED. ■
Steam Turbines coupled to Dynamos, Alternators, Pumps, Blp\yprs, Fans, etc.
The Original Inventors of Parsons’ Type.
C. A. PARSONS 8 CO., Newcastle-on-Tyne,
HAVE SUPPLIED OVER 60,000 B.H.P. OF TURBINES IN AUSTRALIA ALONE.
Sole Australasian
Agents—
WILLIAM ADAMS (Sb COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne# Brisbane# Perth.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Maoriland Public Trust Office. —The
establishment of a Public Trust Office in N. S. Wales
gives the record of the Maoriland institution some
additional interest. The latter, now nearly 20 years
old, is entitled, like the new office in N. S. Wales,
to discharge all the duties that may by will or deed
be imposed upon a private executor, trustee, attorney
or agent. In addition, the Maoriland office is auto-
matically the trustee where there is no will; it holds
in trust the estates of lunatics and convicts ; and it
is the trustee for numerous Government sinking-
funds, and for such things as the Miners’ Relief
Fund. The funds under its control at the end of its
last financial year included the following:-
Sinking funds (public) .. .. ..£2,300,604
Wills and trust estates . . . . . . 1,619,601
Civil Service Superannuation . . .. 988,178
Intestate estates . . . . . . . . 211,495
Mental patients’ estates . . . . . . 180,857
Other funds .. .. .. ~ .. 570,810
Total £5,871,545
The increase in the amount under the control of the
office during the last 10 years, so far as the private
business is concerned, is shown next: —
1903. 1913.
Wills and trust estates . . £867,049 £1,619,601
Intestate estates . . . . 75,392 211,495
Mental patients’ estates .. 41,470 180,857
Thus, apart from intestacies and mental patients’
estates, the Maoriland Trust Office has just about
twice the private business to do now that it had 10
years ago, which may be regarded as very satis-
factory progress, though the proportion of the
Dominion’s business sent to the office is still not
very large. The big estates don’t, as a rule, go to
it—at least, they don’t go yet. But the number of
small estates administered is growing fast. Ten
years ago there were 744 of them; a year ago there
were 2407.
In one respect the office does what trustee oqs. will
not do—"it guarantees a fixed return to an estate,
provided, of course, that the estate permits it to
choose the investments. This interest-return is fixed
from time to time by the office, nominally the
Governor-in-Council: at present, for instance, a trust
estate, having money to invest, can get a guarantee
of 41 p.c. up to a certain amount. Anything realised
in excess of that guaranteed interest belongs to the
Trust Office; and this constitutes the bulk of its
earnings. Last year the gross income was —
Commissions and charges ~ £28,500
Surplus from investments . , , . 40,199
Rents and miscellaneous ~ ~ 3,367
Total income . . . . . . £72,066
Expenses, including depreciation of office premises
and furniture, were £44,516. Thus the year’s profit
was £27,551, the bulk of which was invested in
new premises. The office’s own investments and
funds amount to £186,901, Curiously, it issues no
separate balance-sheet of its own affairs, but in a
general statement mixes up its own and other people’s
money. In this respeot a change is highly desirable.
Some day, when the competition of this and other
State Trust Offices gets keener, the private (that is to
say the company) trustee will have to guarantee
interest in the same manner as this one does; and it
is highly probable that it will also have to return
by way of a bonus some of the excess earnings.
After all, this will be only what life insurance cos.
do now. They guarantee—anyway, the proprietary
offices do—the face value of the policy, which in-
volves a guarantee that a certain rate of interest
will be earned on premiums ; and some or all of the
excess earnings go to the policy-holder in the
shape of bonuses. The time is prettv sure to come
when trustee offices will do much the same thing,
and this Maoriland office’s guarantee is a first step
in that direction.
* * * *
The Bank qf North Queensland ;—-
Writ- Added
Dividends and ten to Re-' Rq-
Rrofits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
£* £, £ £ £
Dec., 190;).. 2310 p.c.= 1326 984 21,084
June, 1906.. 2461 21 „ „ 1330 1131 22,215
Dec., 1906.. 2644 2J „ „ 1335 1309 23,524
June, 1fi07.. 3018 4 , „ 2113 905 24,429
Dec., 1907.. 3371 4 „ ~ 2122 4000 21,678
June, 1908.. 3677 4 „ „ 2129 1548 23,226
Dec., 1908.. 4070 5 „ „ 2652 4500 20,144
June, 1909.. 4314 5, „ „ 2658 1656 21,800
Dec., 1909.. 4641 5 „ „ 2666 1975 23,775
June, 1910.. 4717 5 ~,,2668 5000 20,824
Dec., 1910.. 4838 5 „ ~ 2671 2167 22,991
June, 1911.. 4851 9 „ „ 2671 400 Q 21,171
Dee., 1911.. 5383 6 „ „ 3197 2186 23,357
June, 1912.. 6062 6 „ „ 3214 2848 26,205
Dee., 1912.. 7601 6 „ ~ 4192 3409 29,614
June, 1913.. 8376 7 „ „ 5445 2931 32,545
Dec., 1913. . 8406 V „ ~ 5688 2718 35,263
This bank continues to make steady progress, and its
figures, if still not big, are at least attractive.
Though it has gradually put up its dividend to 7
p.c., it evidently didn’t rush matters; hence during
the first year of the 7 p.c. dividend it has been
able to put by an amount in excess of half the total
paid away. In fact, the principle all through
appears to have been to hang on to at least one-
third of the visible profits. A good deal of profits
that never were disclosed were probably dropped into
the stocking also. Still, there was a time when the
stocking had a nasty hole in it, torn at the time qf
Queensland’s wild borrowing boom. Like every other
Queensland bank, this one lent far too much qn
properties, which were subsequently thrown on its
hands ; and for close on 20 years no dividend at
all was paid, or only 2( p.c.—everything else went
towards writing down those overvalued assets. (n
fpany cases, when they had been nicely written down,
the (urn in Queensland’s tide carried the yalues
back to somewhere in the neighborhood of the' lofty
figures at which they had been taken qver; and
that meant a nice little surplus on realisation. Pro-
bably some of that surplus has been added to visible
profits; it is just as probable that another part of
it has been simply dropped into the same contin-
gency fund for which various amounts were visibly
set aside a few years ago. This realisation of sur-
pluses, allowing other doubtful or unproductive
assets to be written down, no doubt partly explains
why the 8.N.Q., a small bank with many branches
and a consequent high expense rate, is able to show
a return of just over 81 p.c. on capital and visible
reserves combined. And the apparent solidity of its
position no doubt also explains whv deposits are not
scarce. On December 31, in fact, the bank seems to
have had more than it quite knew what to do with :
Liabilities,
1903. 1912. 1913.
Deposits.. ..£269.269 £906,214 £1,039,708
Bills, etc. . . 70,378 78,610 74,084
Assets.
Liquid asset? . . 121,110 423,972 565,669
Advances ; ; 311,713 692,596 698,074
Premises, etp, ~ 25,254 53,500 63,500
Thus at the end of the half-year 50 p.c. and a frac-
tion of all its deposit money and other liabilities
were in coin or bullion, or were lying with
other banks (probably at short call in London),
or were under remittance. The profits were all the
more excellent in view of this large holding of
liquid assets. Nor is the public’s money in the busi-
ness at all excessive in proportion to the share-
holders’ own funds: capital having been increased
12 months ago, the proportion of the bank’s money
to the public’s is now about £1 to £5 135., which
is well on the safe side. Altogether, in view of the
large holding of liquid assets, the good percentage
of profit consistently put aside, the moderate amount
of public money at risk, and the solid earnings
shown by the funds, the bank seems to haye-achieved
a solid, profitable business and to deserve it.
The New Zealand Loan and Mercan-
tile Agency Co., Ltd., which is in the pastoral-
finance and agency business in Australia and Maori-
land:—
Full Paid on
Interest account
on Ist and Interest Divi-
Gross 2nd Deben- on 3rd De- dend Re-
June, Profits, tures Paid. bentures. (5 p.c.). serves.
f £101,050 £100,658 £392)
1903-J Suspense account (£51,213) ]- - £103,199
( added to reserves. J
, qf | 122,775 100,657 16,901 1 in-row
1904 \ Written off .. £4459 / “ 103 ’ 957
10nr I 121,952 100,658 16,901 (
1900 1 Written off .. . £3548 I ~ 104 ’ 802
1906.. 177,104 100,965 17,160 £6,423 157,358
f 180,416 98,953 17,259 1
1907-! Suspense account (£100,000) V 6,429 315,133
( added to reserves, )
ions) 157,703 98,953 17,259 I .. , 0Q , Q ,
' | Surpluses on sales, £50,000 / 6,4-* 400,190
1909.. 177,747 98,953 17,259 6,370 455,360
(7 p. 0.) (7j p.c.)
1910.. 180,885 98,953 26,848 10,147 500,297
1QI1 ) Surpluses on sales, £50,000 t 1n 0Q „
4 I 195,947 98,953 26,847 ( 4U,1&1 0*0,203
1019) Surpluses on sales, £60,000 / .. r , , on
| 196,030 98,953 26,847 f 729,872
Cash dividends to shareholders and bonus
to 3rd debenture holders, £454,536 ~ 265,836
Exes, of reconstruction, including discounts
on new debentures, underwriting, etc.,
£84,452 181,384
Profits on liquidation of N.Z. Land Associa-
tion, £75,866 257,250
Dividends.
5 p.c. Written
Profits. Prefs. Ordinary. Off.
1913. .£109,915 £23,336 5 p.c. =£32,718 £20,000 291,111
That is an untidy table; but the untidiness is the
result of the co. cleaning up its own mess. That
mess was something awful. In the boom of the
late ’Bo’s and early ’9o’s, when a borrowing mania
such as the one which now afflict? the N. S. Wales
and some other Governments was at its height, there
was so much prosperity of the fictitious sort that
people paid even more outrageous prices fpr property
than they have been paying lately. Then the borrow-
ing stopped—in that case it was like the banging of
a door—and the lenders clamored for their money.
In the course of the forced realisations that followed,
values slumped so horribly that, of this co.’s capital,
£1,042,142, or about four-firths, was written off as
lost; and even then the debenture-holders had tQ
listen to the sad intelligence that oyer £ 1,000,0QQ
of their money had evaporated as well. In the re-
arrangement that succeeded this awful smash, things
were so fixed that djvs, for shareholders were practi-
cally impossible; but in 1903, when it began to look
as though there might presently he something left
over after paying the debenture-holders, a further
re-arrangement was made. Down to this point the
third debenture-holders had beep starying miserably.
The new scheme was tq make things easier for .the
shareholders to get divs. prqyided that the hithertq-
staryed third debenture-holders got as much in excess
of 44 p.c. as the shareholders got in excess of 5 p.c,
That relieved the situation somewhat. But it was
still unsatisfactory. Twelve months ago, for in-
stance, the shareholders had only £135,350 qf Capital
in the business, while the debenture-holders had
£3,296,338 ; and 9 s the shareholders governed tfie
co., it was too much like the last tuft of hair on the
dog’s tail bossing the rest of the animal. For that
and other reasons the concern was once niqre thrown
into the melting ppt. Simultaneously, the N.Z. Land
Association, all of whose shares were owned by the
N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., was put in'tq
liquidation- Lhe latter transaction is' not yet quite
complete; but the lower part of the table shows
pretty well what has been done so far. From the
Land Association there is a large sum representing
profits still to be received; £120,000 is mentioned.
Presumably this, or the bulk of it, will go to
strengthen reserves, which have been rather heavily
drawn upon to provide bonuses —doubtless paid in
order to oil the recent reconstruction through.
The following shows the changes which the capital
account has undergone:—:
1912. 1913.
Pref. Shares .. .. Nil £989.200
Ord. Shares .. .. £135,350 834,314
Ist Debentures . . 2,350,000 1,000,000
2nd Debentures ! ! 540,765 1,000,000
3rd Debentures i i 405,573
Total .. ..£3,431,688 £3,823,514
The increase in the total is due to calls made on the
old ordinary shares. These were nominally £9 paid
(mostly to 10s.). They were reduced to £5 10s.,
and a call of £5, payable by instalments, was made
on them. Both lots of debentures now carry 4 p.c.
The pref. shares are entitled to 5 p.c. cumulative;
but, of course, the debentures come in ahead of
them.
The business done by the co. js suggested by the
next table: —•
Diabilities.
1904. 1912. 1913.
Debentures.. . . £3,309,531 £3,296,338 £2,000,000
Other debts . 565,888 785,322 337,685
Assets.
Liquid assets . . 378,468 536,571 924,423
ii.ii. Land Associa-
tion ... .. 552,659 552,659
Po.’s debentures . . 471,461 438,969 300,00 Q
Advances ..' .j (,981,438 2,724,103 2,582,027
Properties, stock 210,131 77,781 75,819
Premises . . '. . 290,722 417,089 401,003
Other assets i. 229,619 209,949 225,093
Aq avalanche of prpperty and stock fell in on the
co. when the boom broke; but most of it has now
been shifted. Improved conditions have given a
legitimately-improved value to properties; also, np
doubt, Australia has grown a new crop of fools since
1893. Between those two things bigger prices have
been got for properties than the co. dared to hope
for when things were at their most dismal point.
But though sales have been made at high 1 price?,
advances have probably been made on the same basis
of valuation. It is, indeed, almost impossible to g*q
in for pastoral, finance without 1 takiVig considerable
risks. The ups and downs of the industry are s6’
tremendous that a margin which looks ample under
good conditions is of little value under the worst con-
ditions. The salvation of this and every other co. in
the business lies in careful management plus the
abilitv to see the thing through. And as this co. is
nowadays using practically no money which is liable
to be called ipr in a hurry, it is in a good Dosition
to weather a drought, and stand by until prices get
normal again. The co. that has little hope is the
co. that has to realise under the most disadvan-
tageous conditions, in order to pay back its own
borrowings. Incidentally, that is also the sort of
co. which the pastoral borrower ought to be very
shy qf.
Westralian Goldfields Water Supply :
Interest
and
Working Writ- Sinking Deficit
Ex- ten Fund tor
June, Revenue, penses. Off. Required. Year.
4994 -- ? ? £155,911 £101,911
1900. . £141,067 £42,835 179,032 80,800
1906.. 159,425 44,550 £ 11,000 181,717 77 842
1907.. 167,146 53,928 11,000 186,789 84!o71
1908.. 172,550 63,882 11,000 188,565 90,897
1909.. 183,200 62,205 11,000 191,239 81,244
1910.. 221,406 61,118 11,000 192,135 42,847
1911.. 237,668 59,973" 11,000 192,311 25,616
1912.. 243,521 67,240 11,000 192,463 27,182
1913.. 254,920 78,387 ,11,000 197,484 31,952
Bigjohn Forrest, the man who should have been in
the place that Joe Cook does not adorn, had no
foolish notions about mines. When the boomsters
were saying that Kalgoorlife would last to the end of
time, which was palpable silliness, Bigjohn said that
25 years on top of the six or eight, which had then
passed was a fair life for a mining proposition
worked under modern energetic conditions. In con-
senting to borrow money to carry out the great gold-
fields water-supply scheme, he therefore provided for
a sinking-fund to extinguish the debt in quarter of
a century. But the best-laid plans soop went to
pieces. The big mineowners, - finding presently that
they could deal with smaller men than John Forrest,
wrung out such concessions that, instead of the
scheme providing its own sinking fund, the rich
mineowners have loafed on the general taxpayer.
Things haven t been quite so bad in that respect
during the last two or three years, because ex-
Premier Wilson was driven to cut off some of the
concessions ; yet in the past year, when the sinking
fund charges amounted to approximately £BB,OOO,
only £56,000 was available. As an instance of
those best able to pay loafing on those least able, ibis
would be hard to beat in Australian history. For
even now, with many Kalgoorlie mines far along the
downward track, Westralian dividends amount to
about £950,000 a year, most of which goes to
people outside the country. The anti-Socialists per-
sistently cry against “State interference with Private
Enterprise” on the ground that the State doesn’t run
things on business lines; but the I utter the anti-
Sociulist the more lie is responsible for the State
running things on the wrong lines.
The financing of the business has in one respeot
been peculiar. First of all, the State raised
£2,913,168, most of it at the outset. Then it
handed the undertaking over to a Board, and this
Board has itself raised on debentures the capital
required for additional works ( £460,000), There
are thus two sinking funds in operation. So far as
the original outlay is concerned, the sinking fund is
designed to extinguish the debt in about 13 years
from now. And it is none too short a term; for
though, on present appearances, there certainly will
be mines at work beyond 13 years, it is practically
certain that some of the riohqst of them will be
extinct, and the others will be working either on
poorer ore or at much heavier costs for mining and
treatment. And then concessions may fairly be
considered; indeed, oonoessions may be necessary in
order to keep them going. True, the scheme now
serves a considerable agricultural area as well as
the goldfield. But the demand for water, apart from
the goldfield, is comparatively very small; of the
total revenue of £254,920 last year, £201,773 was
derived from the mining towns, and though the
agricultural demand may increase, it seems impos-
sible that there can be any profit in it. As the
Under-Sec. says, “the future financial welfare of the
undertaking is practically dependent on the mining
prospects of the Eastern goldfield between Southern
Cross and Kanowna.” Thirteen years hence, when
the sinking fund accumulations will have wiped out
the bulk of the debt, and the greater part of the
sinking fund and interest charges alike will disap-
pear, it will be possible to, give substantial help to
a mining industry which by that time will be want-
ing help badly, Incidentally, valuable aid may also
be given to the agricultural business; and in most
parts of Westralia that industry can also do with
more assistance than a good many optimists have
hitherto thought it would need. And in those days
the men who are receiving the help will do a fair
thing if they remember gratefully the man who pro-
vided for a sinking fund of a si ze none 4ar ??’
yet till then quite unheard qf in connection w-Rfi
big Australian loans,
The Perth Benefit, Building, Invest-
ment and Loan Society (Westralia) : —•
Dividends (exclusive Added
of 5 per cent. to Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. interest). serves, serves
1900 £1025 71 p.c. = £lO4l £75
1901 :. 1273 71 ~ „ 1181 £92 167
1902 .. 1378 71 „ „ 1187 58
1903 1632 71 ~ ~ 1569 63 121
1904 :: 1887 7i ;; ;; lese 251 372
1905 . . 2017 71 „ „ 1799 218 590
1906 . . 2177 10 „ „ 2375 392
1907 .. 1430 71 ~ ~ 1809 13
1908 .. 2067 81 „ „ 2026 41 54
1909 . . 2100 8 „ „ 2036 64 118
1910 .. 2273 81 „ „ 2329 62
1911 . . 2148 71 ~ ~ 2044 104 166
1912 .. 2276 71 „ „ 2268 8 174
1913 .. 4291 121 „ „ 3926 365 539
Twelve months ago the directors were proud men
who said the society had never had a bad debt; and
as it was then 50 years old the record certainly was
a remarkable one. But AVestralia’s past is scarcely
a guide to its future. Before gold was found over
there by the ton, there was no boom and conse-
quently 'no slump ; the State just went on in a vege-
tablish way. Since the gold was found, the trend of
values has been pretty steadily upward; and bad
debts, so far as a society like this is concerned,
were not likely to be made under those conditions
either. But when the gold output dwindles, as the
output of every other Australian goldfield has done,
Perth property values will dwindle too, unless some
other industry pushes forward to steady things. In view
of that possibility, it is about time the directors
dropped their silly aversion to reserves, and got some-
thing substantial in the stocking to provide for con-
tingencies. Apparently the idea is that, as no capital
is fixed for good in the business, all the shares being
of the terminating variety, current profits belong,
and ought to go" to current shareholder?. That
would be all very well if the management c.ould be
dead-sure what the true profits amount to. For
example, supposing a Idhn is made to-day, and in
five years’ time turn? put badly. Shouldn’t the man
who is a shareholder to-day provide something to-
wards meeting the loss? Should he he permitted to
take every cent out of the society next year, and
leave the shareholder, of five years henc.e to pay for a,
bad bit of business done before ever he had anything
to do with the concern? Of all excuses for selfish;
thriftless finance this yarn about shareholders being,
entitled to empty the till when they withdraw thejr
capital is about the hollowest.
The directors record “the most successful year’s
business since ’ the' inception of the society.” "Without
wishing to be rude, The Bulletin merely says that
it isn’t at all sure about it. Here are the figures:—
1900,. 1905. 1910. 1912. 1913.
Share capi-
tal ' .. £18,737 £30,921 £34,483 £39,102 £37,915
Fixed de- ' _ _
posits, &c. 11,442 8,061 9,336 7,578 16,410
Advances 30,315 39,932 40,910 47,262 58,791
Other asests 980 1,439 5,299 1,860 Nil
There certainly has been a rush to borrow: but a
rush to borrow doesn’t necessarily mean extra suc-
cess. There was a tremendous rush to borrow just
before the Melbourne land-boom broke'; and what
was similarly claimed to be vast success on the part
of building societies then turned out very soon to be
something quite different. In two years the society
has increased its advances from £36,598 to £58,791;
anti meantime its own share capital has moved onl>
from £34,597 to £37,915. There is profit in tins
if everything goes right; if very much goes wrong
the society is liable to lose quite a lot of money.
Meantime, certainly, the profits are very cosy. Divi-
dends (or bonuses) are paid only on the maturity
of the shares; and the rates shown above are in
addition to the interest calculated upon and allowed
in the tables. Thus £B3 Bs. paid by weekly instal-
ments in eight years buys a £lOO share; but toi
each £B3 Bs. thus paid in, the amount actually paid
out in recent years has been as follows: —
1904 ..£l4O 2 0 | 1909 ..£l4l 3 8
1905 .. 144 13 0 | 1910 .. 144 15 4
1906 .. 138 3 91 1911 .. 139 9 11
1907 .. 135 12 4 | 1912 .. 146 16 9
1908 .. 135 8 8 | 1913 .. 138 8 5
Compound interest can do amazing things; still, as
remarked before, the society would be a lot so..ndi r
if less had been paid out and more had been hung
on to for meeting those contingencies which are
bound to give trouble sooner or later.
* * * *
Kodak (Australasia), Ltd., formerly
Australian Kodak, Ltd., which began as from June,
1908, with a small deficit representing preliminary
expenses:—•
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
June, 1908.. £47
Reserves.
Mar., 1909. . £22,038 9 p.c. = £11,250 £596 9,714
Sept., 1909.. 12,984 10 „ „ 7,500 358 14,840
Sept., 1910.. 25,273 10 „ „ 15,000 3869 21,244
Sept., 1911.. 24,346 10 ~ „ 15,000 3067 27,523
Sept., 1912.. 36,227 125,, „ 18,750 5219 39,781
Sept., 1913.. 36,890 124 „ „ 18,750 5238 52,683
This is a very profitable business, and the balance-
sheet is exceptionally “clean.” The co., which was
formed to take over the businesses run by Baker and
Rouse, suppliers and manufacturers of photographic
materials, etc., started without any goodwill loading
whatever. On trade marks, trade names and pro-
cesses no value was placed at all, nor on anything
other than tangible assets. The preliminary exes,
were also amazingly small. Moreover, shares in
other cos. were taken in at cost. The principal in-
vestment of this kind consisted of an interest in the
Eastman Kodak Co., of the U.S.A., and these shares
have been gradually sold. About £3OOO worth
(face value) has been marketed during the year, and
the profit has been included in the figures given
above. What that profit on the sale amounts to
isn’t, however, ascertainable, though in some past
years it has apparently amounted to about 5Q p.c.
of the par value. The 00. can’t, of course, go on
selling out these shares indefinitely; so this little
help to profits will cease some day. Still there is a
big margin between present profits and the present
12i p.c. div.—enough to pay another 8 p.c. p.a. dur-
ing the past two years. And that fine result has been
achieved after what looks like a severe writing-dowrt
of assets,. Even buildings, most of them new, have
been written down 2 p.c.—the proper thing, of
course, though too often nothing in this way is
done. The £5238 shown as written off isn’t the
only provision for wear and tear either, inasmuch
as a certain amount of obsolete plant, which hadn’t
been written down to nothing, was thrown out and
the book value written off; but it is impossible to
tell what the figure is—,probably a few hundreds.
Finally, the splendid profit is all the more splendid
because so large a proportion of the capital is in-
vested. in freeholds or is represented by liquid and
Semi-liquid assets. The freehold property account is
now £77,564, and the mortgage liability against
this is only £IQ,OOQ. Investments, cash and book
debts (less reserve for contingencies) amount to
£44,157. On the other side, the liabilities, apart
from mortgage, amount to only £23 201. Stocks,
certainly, are heavy—, £88,074-—and one'has to take
these on trust; but it is quite easy to swallow the
valuation put upon this, item in view of the persistent
writing-down and the other evidence®, of very prudent
financial management.
* *
The Derwent and Tamar Assurance
00. (Hobart, Tas.), which used to, be. the Derwent
and Tamar Fire, Life and Marine. Assurance Co,. :• —•.
Dividends and To, Re- Re-
Oct,, Profit. Dividend Tax, serves. serves.
1901 ~£3,02R fii p.c. == £3,281 —, £60,458
1902 ~ 8,90.9, Iff 5,250 £3659 64,117
190.3 ~ 4,140 71 „ „ 3,937 203 64,320
190.4 ~ 8,233 10 „ „ 5,250 2983 67,303
1905 . . 9,684 10 „ „ 5,250 4434 71,737
1906 .. 10,122 15 „ „ 7,875 2247 73,984
1907 .. 7,014 10 „ „ 5,250 1764 75,748
1908 .. 10,944 15 „ „ 7,875 3069 78,817
1909 . . 7,205 12i „ 6,609 596 79,413
1910 . . 10,142 15 „ „ 7,906 2236 81,649
1911 .. 8,467 15 „ „ 7,875 592 82,241
1912 .. 10,137 20 „ „ 10,500 81,878
Written off, £9OOO .. .. 72,878
1913 .. 9,342 30 p.c. = 15,750 66,470
The 75-year-old Derwent and Tamar is hardly an
Australian institution any more. Its people got old
and tired and, apparently thinking that tilings were
not what they , used to be, sold a controlling interest
to the London and Lancashire; and on top of that
they recently paid the London and Lancashire £B5OO
to guarantee the whole of their liabilities, which
was a queer sort of proceeding. This £B5OO is
shown as written off, and with it £5OO which was
formerly set aside to start an accident business. The
latter has now been organised; but, simultaneously,
the marine business, of which the Derwent and
Tamar used to do a good deal, has been “reorgan-
ised” —which apparently means that a part of it has
been either sawn off altogether or passed over to
the English boa-constrictor. The practical transfer
to the foreigner is a sorry business altogether. Pre-
sumably, relying on the guarantee before-mentioned,
the directors will continue to eat up the reserves;
and the old Derwent and Tamar will be little more
than a name and a peg on which the English co. will
hang a claim to have two agents in a town instead
of the one to which it would otherwise be restricted
by the Fire Insurance Cos.’ Union.
Commonwealth Fisheries, Lts. —This
0.0. is being formed in Melbourne, “for the purpose of
developing, the prolific, fisheries of the Australian
coast, and has in view the establishment;, on a large
and substantial basis, of the important industries of
fishing, capture, distribution and curing in all its
branches.”- It is an excellent i(lea, and deserves
encouragement. But the terms op vfhich this co. is
being formed are not satisfactory. The promoters
have nothing, to sell except the idea, and thgt belongs
to anybody ; notwithstanding, they ask for. no less than
20,000 fully-paid shares, while a, further 5;000 are
to be allotted to Mr. E. Howell ‘.‘as part-remunera-
tion for his service? for acting as managing director.”
There, is nothing to justify this excessive rake-off;
and until the terms are varied the public is not
likely to, subscribe fpr. the 125,000. shares now
offered.
* * 1
Six months ago the director of that dis-
tressful co., Sydney Ferries, Ltd., lamented that, after
paying the 10 p.c. dividend, there wasn’t enough profit
left over to provide for. current depreciation, ' Never-
theless, they now intimate their intention to capital-
ise £116,667 of undivided promts'; in other wards,
they propose to give a bonus of 6s. Bd, per lully-
paid £1 share, and 3s. 4d. per share paid to. 10s.
The shareholder may take shares instead of. cash —
one new share for every three fully-paid, which will
absorb 100,000, and one (fully paid) for. every six
paid to 10s., which will absorb the other 16,867.
The total number of shares issued will then be
516,667 ("416,667 fully paid and 1,00,000 paid, to
10s.). The bonus will thus he equal to 83J p.e.,
which is prettv fair for a. concern that six months
ago said it wasn’t able to provide enough to cover the
half-year’s wear and tear after paving a 10 p.c.
dividend. In an accompanying circular, “the Board
wishes to point out that, although the shareholders’
holding of shares in the 00. will be increased if the


The Pacific Cableßoard
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, GERMANY, etc.
New Direct Cable to Auckland from Board’s
Sydney Office opened December, 1912.
A Week End rate is now available between
Great Britain and Australasia. Rate 9d. per
word with minimum of 18s. (24 words).
Week End Cable Letters are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain on the following Tuesday morning.
TARIFF PER
Great Britain ..
Germany
New Zealand . .
Canada
U.S.A
WORD “VIA PACIFIC.”
Daily.
Argentine, Brazil, 1 5/g i 2/10 i
Chili and Peru f 7 - //lut
West Indies, Central America and other
rates on application.
Cable Forms, Deferred and Week End
Regulations may be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
408 Collins Street, Melbourne. Tel. ??BS'.
J. MILWARD, Manager in the Pacific.
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
A GOOD INVESTMENT!
DUNLOP
MINING and
ENGINEERING GOODS
CAN always be relied on for
QUALITY, WEAR ,
and SATISFACTION
\ ANY CLASS OF GOODS MADE TO ORDER
t SAMPLES AND TENDERS SUBMITTED.
LISTS ON APPLICATION.
I DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
: Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide. Perth, Brisbane
'i Wellington and Christchurch.
sd
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones,. is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete, the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.* [4
* * * *
Extract from Financial News. London, July 12,
1911: “The annual report of The Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society affords abundant evidence
that ‘Forward’ is still the watchword of the directors,
for in every direction admirable progress has been
achieved.”*
* * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE, the ideal pressure pipe,
is not impaired by the effects of acids, minerals nor
electrolysis, and as water preserves instead of cor-
roding it, it lasts indefinitely. It is lighter, easier
to lay and cheaper than metal piping. Catalogue
from the Australian Woodpipe Co., Ltd., 57 York
Street, Sydney (Head Office).*
w * * *
Ample evidence of the increasing popularity of
the Hornsby manufactures is the fact that no less
than three mining cos. —Goldsworth Gold Mines
Ltd., Uralla; The Phcenix Gold Recovery Co., Hill-
grove; and The True Blue Mines, West Wyalong—
within one week after exhaustive enquiries have
placed their order for the “Hornsby” Suction Gas
Engine and Plant. These plants are recognised by
experts to be thoroughly up to date, simple to work,
and a vast saving in fuel used, charcoal or coke
being all that is required to produce the gas, and
the small amount of attention required. R. Hornsby
and Sons Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane.*
LARGE CAPITAL AVAILABLE.—Good mining
properties. Industrials. Patents. Properties in-
spected and business propositions investigated in any
part of Commonwealth and abroad. Reply with par-
ticulars to Private Box No. 49, General Post Office,
Melbourne.*
The highest returns for all kinds of residues are
obtained from Harringtons Ltd. of 386 George
Street, Sydney, who buy large or small quantities of
jewellers’ sweeps, polishings, handwash and lemel,
process workers’ residues, plating baths and any
other materials containing gold, silver or platinum.
Assays are executed for jewellers within two or three
hours, and prospectors and others are assured of
immediate attention. All kinds of analytical and
metallurgical work can be executed promptly and
advice given on all branches of industrial chemistry
and metallurgy. The whole of the work is directed
by a qualified analyst and metallurgist from Johnson
and Sons, London, Assayers and Refiners to the Bank
of England, lI.M. Mint, the Council of India, etc.,
and who are acting as London agents for Harring-
tons Ltd. for the treatment of large parcels of
sweeps, residues, ores, etc. Direct shipment of such
lots can be arranged.*
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.*
Water-Supply engineers will be interested to learn
that further evidence proving the durability of W. I.
and Steel Pipes when coated by the Asphaltum pro-
cess, has just been obtained by the engineers of the
Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works. Certain
alterations were made to the main which supplies the
City of South Melbourne with water, and consequently
some pipes were taken up. These pipes were made in the
year 1889, and were coated with Asphaltum composi-
tion in the usual way, and they were laid in ground
that was particularly unfavorable to the preservation
of any unprotected metal, being originally swampy
land, containing much vegetable matter, and filled
with tidal dredgings. On examination, these 24-year-
old pipes were found to be in an excellent state of
preservation, and the Board’s engineers were so satis-
fied with their condition that they decided to use
them again. They were, therefore, removed to the
works of Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Proprietary Lim-
ited, at Footscray, Victoria, where these 24-year-old
pipes were cleaned, retested, and recoated with
Asphaltum composition in a new and improved pro-
cess. They are now being relaid in a position where
they will have to withstand a working pressure of
1351 b. to the square inch. That the Asphaltum pro-
cess for coating pipes is rust-proof and thoroughly
efficacious is proved by the foregoing.*
H.M.A.S. Australia, now in Australian waters,
is fitted entirely with Babcock and Wilcox Water-
tube Boilers, similar to the H.M.S. New Zea
land and other Dreadnoughts recently built for the
Admiralty.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co.. 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co„ Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
resolutions are carried, the amount available for
distribution among shareholders by way of divi-
dend is unlikely to appreciably increase, as far as
the Board can at present see.” Shareholders will,
however, be a horribly disappointed lot if the divi-
dend is reduced below 10 p.c. On the published
figures the co. certainly can’t pay more than 8 p.c.
on the capital as increased ; but so far as profits
are concerned, the published figures of Sydney Ferries
have at times been more or less of a joke. Whether
they are quite as much of a joke now as they used
to be is another matter: Wages Board awards have, no
doubt, taken some of the gilt off the gingerbread.
The new shares will carry dividend as from
February 1.
The Metropolitan Meat Market Co. is a
moderately-ancient institution of Melbourne, which,
like most other concerns that handle meat before
it leaves the butcher’s, keeps in very good condition.
Some years ago it spent about £20,000 on its pre-
mises ; but all of the plaster has been rubbed off
except £3OOO, and against that there was £1235
of cash at the last balance. Capital is £10,571;
accumulated profits, £17,219; and a steady 6 p.c.
dividend is paid. The income is derived from the
letting of stalls.
Queensland is having the old experience
the more it borrows the more it has to pay in taxes
in order to provide interest on loans that refuse to
earn interest for themselves. The Government had
a great burst of loan extravagance in 1911-12 ; and,
quite in accordance with the old rule, the increased
revenue in the past half-year didn’t keep pace with
the increased bill for interest and working exes.: —
Half-year from) July 1 to Dec. 31.
1912. 1913.
Revenue . . . . £3,077,567 £3,325,291
Expenditure . . 2,898,829 3,191,414
Surplus . . . . £178,738 £133,877
The interest paid in the past half-year on the public
debt was £99,044 more; so, other things being
equal, the new loans earned very little more than half
of their own interest. Of course, other things may
not have been equal. The old works may not have
earned as much as they did the year before. In that
case, so much the worse for the pro-borrowing argu-
ment, which is to the effect that the older the loans
and the more established the works in which they
have been sunk the better the return. The plain
fact is that, either the old works didn’t earn as
much as they used to, or the new ones didn’t earn
much more than half their keep; and, in either
case, there is plainly no assurance that they will do
any better in the future.
* * * *
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. (Q.) :
Revenue. - Expenditure. Profit.
May, 1907 .. £934,432 £571,619 £362,813
May, 1908 .. 911,723 648,360 263,363
May, 1909 . . 901,838 673,622 228,216
May, 1910 . . 1,079,914 721,722 358,192
Nov., 1910 .. 484,755 408,450 76,305
May, 1911 . . 468,538 350,867 117,671
Nov., 1911 . . 452,336 381,730 70,606
May, 1912 .. 537,378 349,985 187,393
Nov., 1912 .. 640,712 387,585 253,127
May, 1913 .. 499,317 351,314 148,00/3
Nov., 1913 .. 496,936 351,973 144,963
The half-year’s gross profits have been cut up like
this: —
Dividends (Is. per quarter) . . £lOO,OOO
Depreciation . . . . . . 24,707
Unappropriated .. . . . . 20,256
Total £144,963
The expenditure includes £27,883 spent on main-
tenance, additions to old plant (which will shortly
be scrapped), and special outlay in investigating the
coal areas and the concentration (flotation) process.!
The results are still not normal, mainly on account;
of the necessity for developing the mine and getting:
it ready for an output of concentrating ore. General-
manager Magnus puts the position in a very lucid!
paragraph. The Morgan body consists of a large
quantity of ore high in metal values in the centre,,
surrounded by ore poorer in metals but higher ini '
silica. To prepare this latter ore for mining much
development has been called for; and “all the ore
produced from these workings, with the exception of'
that which goes to : the experimental concentrating-
plant, is at present being smelted, as to store it until
the permanent concentrator is working would oxidise-
it too much to handle in the flotation plant.... The-
smelting of this low-grade ore, high in silica, not;
alone very materially increases our cost due to the-
extra flux necessary, but the low copper content;
materially reduces our output.” It seems that the-
copper ore smelted assayed about 55.6 p.c. silica, or-
-3 p.c. higher than for any previous period; apd it
costs about 6Jd. per unit to flux silica, without:
reckoning in metal losses in the slag. With the flota-
tion plant going, it is not proposed to smelt stuff
higher in silica than 52 p.c. unless it is very rich -in
gold. The new smelting plant should also decrease
costs. This plant, it was expected, would be ready -
in March; but for various reasons men don’t rush
Mount Morgan nowadays, and, with labor scarce, all
the works are behind schedule time.
The copper ore put through the reduction works,
totalled 123.247 tons, which averaged 3.125 p.c.
copper and 8.516dwt. gold. The net ore reserves on-.
November 30 were 1,285,000 tons of “high-grade”
and 1,960,000 tons of “medium-grade” ore; and
there are upwards of 3,000,000 tons of low-grade-
ore which will no doubt pay to concentrate. The ore-
consumed in the half-year included the following:—-
Proportion of
Tonnage. Reserves.
High grade .. .. 73,734 5.4 p.c.
Medium grade . . 18,960 0.9 ~
Low grade . . . . 36,623 1.2 ~
It is important to note that, while the co. has no-
doubt had some disabilities, upon which it dwells, it
has also been extracting its high-grade ore at a.
much faster rate than its other ores. The completion
of the big works now in progress may be expected to
reduce costs per ton of ore very considerably, while
increasing the quantity of ore handled ; but the out-
put of copper will not increase in the same propor-
tion as the tonnage—-provided, of course, a fair per-
centage of each class of ore is drawn upon. Nor-
will there be a corresponding decrease in the cost,
per ton of copper produced.
Great Cobar (N.S.W.) has emptied its
till so thoroughly that a new issue of capital is said
to be inevitable.
The Zinc Corporation has been using the
diamond drill at the No. 9 level in its South Blocks;
mine—a second level below the deepest (1050 ft.)
which was being worked 12 months ago. At No. 7'
in the main west crosscut there was 18ft. of ore
averaging .14.1 p.c. lead, 2.40 z. silver and 10.6 p.c.
zinc, and 3ft. averaging 5.2 p.c. lead, 1.70 z. silver
and 5-9 p.c. zinc. At No. 9 the drill for 48ft. was
in ore averaging 16.5 p.c. lead, 2.70 z. silver and
12.7 p.c. zinc, and for 15ft. in ore averaging 15.6
p.c. lead, 3.60 z. silver and 11 p.c. zinc. With a
drill you cannot tell whether you are going across a
lode at right angles or not, and the distance in ore
may not, therefore, be the true width of the lode;
but, 'giving that in, the figures all round are highly
satisfactory. The experience of the neighboring
South mine is evidently to be repeated at the Blocks
—the lower levels look like being better than those
near the surface. How far down the improvement
will continue is of course unknown.
N. S. Wales coal output for 1913 was
9,885,815 tons, which easily makes a record. Of the
total the Northern (Newcastle-Maitland) field con-
tributed rather less than two-thirds. Foreign trade,
though not slack, has not boomed; but the growth
of manufactures under the Commonwealth’s policy of
Protection has produced an inter-State demand
hitherto unapproached. Of 455,403 tons shipped
from Newcastle in December, Victoria and S. Aus-
tralia (including Broken Hill) took 160,000 tons.
Chili, for many years Newcastle’s best foreign cus-
tomer, is not so good a customer now as the two
ports of Adelaide and Pirie.
The Strathbogie Tin Mines, floated in
Sydney some two or three years ago to prospect the
deep leads west of the Vegetable Creek Co.’s area,
has so far given its shareholders a very poor run.
The antiquated boring plant and oil engine, bought
in Victoria, proved utterly incapable of punching
through basalt and drift at anything below a ruinous
cost. After three holes had been bored, work was
stopped, and is apparently to remain stopped, though
the co. has barely started the proposed prospecting,
and might still be expected to have a little capital
in hand.
The'Great Britain Sluicing Co. (N.S.W.)
is having a rather anxious time on account of the
new venture at Y Creek, the present difficulty being
the clayey nature of ■ the overburden. So far it
would appear to be taking the profits from the
Britain main lead to keep the new plant going.
Should the treatment trouble at the Y Creek area
be overcome, there is a good run of fair profits ahead
—provided, of course, that the boring results are
borne out, and the tin market remains satisfactory.
* * * *
Adelong Creek (N.S.W. ) is putting on a
dredge bought from one of the Tewksbury shows at
Braidwood. The co., directed from Melbourne, is
working a big face of fivepenny dirt, and reckons
that the cost of the plant should soon be wiped out.
No. 2 dredge is to handle from 10,000 to 15,000
cubic yards more per month than the present
squeaky worker. With a further run of average
■dirt, and with two plants operating, this co. pro-
mises to outpace its pup, the heavily-loaded Adelong
Estates, though there can be nothing heavily-gilded
in fivepence per yard.
In the official eye of Queensland Mount
IMorgan is still a gold mine, and its dividends of
£200,000 for the yeat make a languishing industry
look jolly and fat. For 1913 the total gold return of
the State was 263,3430 z. fine, valued at £1,118,609,
and the mines producing this gold paid £266,827 in
dividends, or at the rate of 20s. per oz., with some-
thing to spare. For its last half-year to the end of
November, Mount Morgan alone recovered 54,9920 z.
and for the previous 12 months 126,0820 z. That
may justify its claim to be. called a gold mine; but
as it produced 13,634 tons of copper in 18 months
it has a still better claim to be called a copper mine.
Queensland’s gold for some years to come appears
■certain to be mostly derived from the refining of the
red metal.
* * * *
More than half the shares in Mount
Elliott (Q.) are now held in France, a very large
number of them on “bearer warrants,” which pass
from hand to hand. The office doesn’t know who
holds them; all that happens when a dividend is
declared is that a. coupon is torn off the warrant,
and the dividend is paid to whoever presents the
ticket. The holding of so many shares in this way
is a tremendous help to the market manipulator ; in
practice, all these shares are off the market, and
don’t need to be considered in any gamble. A fur-
ther effect of the heavy French holding is that a
French engineer is likely to be sent out to consult
with general-manager Gorbould in regard to his pro-
posal to extend the business by absorbing low- and
medium-grade properties and establishing central
smelting works adapted to this class of ore. ,
Mount Elliott’s scheme to link up a num-
ber of copper mines in the Cloncurry district will
■of course call for a heap of money, and there isn’t
/any ,yery great amount visible in the mine. The
fa'ct that 15,629 tons of ore ! were smelted in four
months to December indicates a heavy drain on the
reserves of 35,000 tons proved, and 15,000 tons “pro-
bable,” as at June 30. There is the bottom level,
■certainly; but official reports fail to create much
enthusiasm about that.
' Though the official reports haven’t been
there are people who still think
Roma (Q.) oil ought to have a further test, and a
new co. is being registered to do more boring. It
is hoped that work will start in March.
Chillagoe, Ltd., issues a report made by
its superintending engineer, J. T. Watson, on the
■co.’s Mount Mulligan coal deposits. Further investi-
gation satisfies him that the measures are of the same
true permo-carhoniferous age as the Newcastle and
I Uawarra coalfields ; also, having gone Into the
matter carefully, he is “satisfied that,- with com-
pressed charges in modern high-temperature ovens,
a good-quality coke can be made from all the coal
mined.” Further, “the cost of coking will not exceed
the figures obtained in the latest plants in N.S.W.”
'The workable coal area is not large—-say, 20 sq. miles
—but if the forecast as to the coking qualities, etc.,
is borne out, the result will be a valuable lift to a
■co, that wants a few lifts badly.
Fremantle Trading Co., which smelts for
:all-comers in a small way and owns two or three
lead mines at and near Northampton (W.A.), reports
a credit balance of £1971 for-the year just ended;
but this includes £lllB brought forward from the
previous year. Of the lot, £l2OO is absorbed in pay- .
ing a 10 p.c. div. to holders of preference shares, leav-
ing £721 to carry forward. Altogether, 23,10,6 tons
of lead ore were raised and treated for a return! of
£47,522. New plant has been ordered, and the co.
intends to operate on a bigger scale this year.
Star Exploration (W.A. and elsewhere)
reckons in its report for the year ended September 30
that conditions during that period were most un-
favorable for the operations of exploration and
finance concerns, and the co. is hanging on to the
remnants of its cash Revenue exceeded expenditure
by £79, and quoted securities which have an esti-
mated book value of £14,083 just about maintained
that figure on the market. Unquoted securities stand
in the books at cost, the result of the year’s opera-
tions not allowing of any deduction for depreciation.
Associated Gold Mines (W.A.), dis-
couraged in its search for other Westralian mines, is
now looking elsewhere. A few months ago it took a
working option on the Iteeley mine, at Cobalt
(Canada), and now it has acquired a part-interest in
an option at Porcupine, in the same bleak country. A
gold-bearing outcrop is alleged to have been dis-
covered in the centre of the show, and some money
is being spent to see if there is anything in the alle-
gation.
Full text of Kalgurli’s report for last
financial year shows that a profit of £101,961, or
£6193 more than in the previous year, was earned
during that term. Four 4s. dividends, absorbing
£96,000, were paid in the year, and half that
amount has since been distributed. The increased
profit was mainly due to the reduction of Bd. ner
ton effected in costs. Notwithstanding disappointing
developments at depth, ore reserves are being main-
tained, and the Board anticipates that at least the
present price of the shares will be returned in divi-
dends.
London Australian and General Explora-
tion Co. evidently believes in having a little of
everything. Its interests now include shares in the
Burma zinc-lead-silver mines, the resuscitated Ply-
mouth gold reef in California, a plumbago show in
Ceylon, a tin venture in Cornwall and oil wells in
Russia. Two of its old-time investments, the Lance-
field and Northern Mines (W.A.), have snuffed out.
Last year’s operations of the co. are stated in the
report to have been beset with exceptional difficulties,
and as the accounts show a debit balance of £32,149
no one is likely to come forward and dispute this
statement. Despite many reverses, the co. is still
full of hope, and believes that it will get rich quick
some day.
Premier Watt’s reconstructed Cabinet has
burst up the policy, laid down by Peter Mcßride
and followed by Billson, of reserving the coal lands
of Victoria to the State. This is the somersault
which the half-dead Outtrim Howitt needed to re-
store it to animation. Private Enterprise smiles
up its sleeve at the Watt volte-face, and will soon
have its hands on every promising bit of coal land
in the State. And there won’t be any undoing that
blunder. Incidentally, the change means harder
times for the miner at Wonthaggi, who (with ex-
ceptions, of course) hasn’t given the State a fair
deal.
* * * *
The Langi Logan boom is the present that
Father Christmas gave to Melbourne and Ballarat
brokers, and to the clever crowd that has hung on to
Ararat ever since Harry Dodd made it fashionable.
As Toole, of the New Langi, is still rising into
wash, it can’t be said that work on the gutter is
much for’a’der than it was six months ago. He
won’t have a dry gutter even when he gets into it.
That, however, won’t worry punters, who imagine
that it will be as easy to open out in a big gutter
like the Langi as it was to get into the Catheart
lead in the Central mine. The difference they don’t
realise is that the one is a 300 ft. tributary, the other
- —the Langi—a 1000 ft. main lead draining miles of
country. Yet if market talk doesn’t lie, even the
Catheart Central is having hard work with heavy
ground and with slowly-draining wash north-west
and south-east of its shaft. It is not much use,
then, talking of the New Langi putting out yields
much before the end of 1914. And none of the shows
north or south of the New Langi will be up to the
present New Langi mark for two years owing to the
way in which they have waited on their big neigh-
bor. Drysdale Brown, now Minister for Mines, had a
tough experience of the same sort at Charlotte
Plains. Is he strong enough to stir up the lazy
dogs to action, just as he brushed up his old Moolort
neighbors ?
Golden Pyke, Bendigo, isn’t so sick as it
looks. A lower yield was expected, and with things
righted better outputs are highly probable. The gold is
got above the faults on the east leg. Still it looks
as if the rich shoots die out on the pitch south in
the Golden Age and on the rise in the Constellation
to the north, though work alone will prove this.
For a time, in any case, the Pyke will take Central
Blue’s place as the best mine at Bendigo to-day.
* * * *
Mount Balfour (Tas.) opens its arms now
to little Langford. No wonder! There has been
plenty of “moral tone” since he was cut out of the
show, but very little cash. Even the Mertz crowd
has switched off, and “Cyanide” MacArthur seems
to have got out of range. No doubt another era of
well-thumbed reports on the glory of the Stanley
district is at hand, for in such things does the little
man delight. The rock ahead is that the State
Government will ask to see the money before it
grants any more concessions, and it has never been
the policy of Mount Balfour to put up any money.
London, Scotland, New York and Paris have all been
hunted to find the little oof bird, so there doesn’t
seem much of the earth’s surface left for Langford
to hunt over.
The South Australian Oil Wells Co., whose
abridged prospectus occurs in the part of this paper
•which pays for itself, invites subscriptions for 100,000
Shares of 55., of which 2s. has to be put up now and
the balance later on by sixpenny calls. The district
chosen for the first boring campaign lies between
Beachport find Mount Gambier. The directors in-
tend to drill right down to 4000 ft. under the guidance
of expert oil-drillers. Probably they may strike
oil at 2000 ft., which is the average depth in Cali-
fornia under similar conditions. In' any ease, a
bona fide attempt will be made to prove whether the
only thing Providence forgot to put into Australia
was petroleum.
* * * *
The Austral-Malay Co. (Sydney), which
thus far has had a hand in two successful Malay tin
flotations, lias a third on the stocks —the Larut,
which will'take over 172 acres at Kota, Taiping.
Under the supervision of Horton and Freeman this
area has been closely bored, and shows an average
of lib. per cub. yard; and even at present prices of
tin there should be a profit of Is. a yard in that.
But they are not all prizes in Siam and Lower
Burmah, and, a Tikelv-looking property at Renong
has just been turned down after boring. The Austral-
Malay people have for some time past also had
engineer Newman in Papua testing ground which
may- make a gold-dredging proposition; but no
definite results have yet been reported.
Kulamadau, Woodlark Island (Papua),
showed a profit in its working account of about £lll3
for six months ; and a 2d. call had to be asked for to
provide- for. outlay on capital account. Leaky dams
and dry weather caused a shortage of water, so only
7044 tons of mine ore and 2090 tons from the hill
were crushed. Costs were £1 ss. 9d., and the aver-
age yield from the mine was £1 6s. 7d. Most of
the profit must have come from gold-bearing material
from the hill and from tailings. The mill has been
dismantled and re-erected on a concrete foundation —a
costly job Which quite accounts for the difficulty in
making, ends meet. The deepest level (No. 5) is
facing a mullock bar at the north end. At the south
end the'lode averages 6ft. wide. There are 125.000
shares, of which only 60,000 are contributing. That
kind of thing is the fashion at Charters Towers,
which., owns most of the shares.
High, -prices last year for copper, lead and
snelter enabled a dozen or more big Australian mines
to pay over £2,000,000 in dividends. The cos. at
Broken Hill supplied £1,478,376. Mount Elliott
(Q.) came next with £202,837; and Hampden
Oloncurry gave £140,000. Elliott paid the highest
dividend from copper mines; but its lot was partly
derived from accumulated profits. Mount Morgan gave
only £200,000; but its profit was more than
double Mount Elliott’s. With the ancient Wallaroo
and Moonta’s £56,000 and the maimed Mount Lyell’s
£Bl,OOO, the total from six copper propositions was
£679,837. •'
* * * *
Passed out in Burmah, J. R. Booth, a
former Australian mine manager who got the wander-
lust. After managing the Hercules (Tas.) he went
north, and was sent by a Queensland crowd to run
the Transpacific dredge in Brazil. Then he was with
the Tongkah in Siam, and of late managed the
Hindu Choung (Burmah) for a mostly-Melbourne co.


RECOMMENDED WITH CONFIDENCE.
“I had a bad cold, hoarseness, sore throat and was
very dry on the chest, but after taking Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy I was greatly relieved,” writes
Mr. Martin Donohue, care of Messrs, A. Wegener &
Son, Woolloongabba, South Brisbane, Q. “After
taking a dose great quantities of phlegm are dis-
charged, which gives great relief. After my experi-
ence I ■ can recommend Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
with confidence.”*
fleering
Est 1818.
Co
en
en
0 Jfc tt
HEERIltfi
ERRT
,S\Ki
S'
m^xunzn
FARMER’S
SYDNEY
SPECIAL
THEATRE DlhflEP
EVEPY FRIDAY EVEHIHG
TABLE D’HOTE 4/s
HTDAnCE-CEfITULPITT STDOORS
ELEVATOR A> FIfTH FLOOR
BUCHANAN’S
Black O. White.
A GRAND SPIRIT
“Black & White” is indeed a “grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, January 12, 1914.
My Dear Arini,—
Amid the dead waste and centre of the
holidays Premier Holman went off by Gov-
ernment motor to his seaside cot at Thirroul,
where are the surf and the shark and the
embittered prawn. During, his brief stay he
delighted his lieges by going about in the
hntless, sockless garb of plain Bill ’Olman,
and tactfully bought his Sunday dinner or
its equivalent in the local store on a Satur-
day night. Since then he has had a look-in
at* the Strickland Kindergarten at Sutton
Forest, and returned, to the high linen neck-
fortification of perspiring society.
Mrs. Mayoress Richards is getting into
her stride as our new Municipal Mamma,, in
response to the clamorous calls of charity.
Before this reaches you Mrs.. Gaud Mayor
will take the chair in her official lair or den,
at a meeting to push the interests, of forth-
coming matindes. They are in aid of the
Royal Hospital for Women and the Ben-
wick Hospital for Infants. (This city has
many charities, but some are still wanting.
I am trying to work up a scheme for the
foundation of a Home for Impossibles. And
think of the urgent need for a Home for Im-
probables.)
The M.L. Government has got its new Her-
mitage, Under the icy brow of. Mount Cook,
into Working order. From this shelter the
tame tourist, who has never seen a glacier.in
his life, is introduced to the Tasman ice
patch, where he can’t hurt himself tott. much;
Btill, he can feel like the. remains of Scott
On the Way back from the South. Pole. It is
only a matter of vivid imagination.
The principal news items at present relate
to food. Torrents of tea are flowing into the
attenuated necks of onr Best People in
various hotels and restaurants, and huge
dinners take the downward path with mon-
otonous regularity; /The eat and burden of
the day are a serious consideration just
how.
Lady Harris, Wife of the cricket Lord of
that name, came this way in the Morea, and
broke the trip With a look in at G.-G. Den-
man. and his lady in Melbourne. Harris
enjoys the queer mixture of being fourth
Baron of. Seringapatam and Mysore, and of
Belmont in the hop country of Kent. Just
now a Baron of Seringapatam and Mysore
can expect bombustious conditions near the
stormy Indian peg on which the mild name
of Harris hangs its title. India has been
rather disrespectful of .late. Speaking of
the Harris family there isn’t, Uncf never has
been, a Gamp in the peerage.
.The new Lord Rochdale, who used to be
Sir George Kemp, Knight, is rushing through
the eastern side of this continent. He is
managing director of Kelsall and Kemp Ltd.,
and is. giving his recently-grown title its
first airing hereabouts on business thoughts
intent.
Mr. and Mrs. Pictet are going off to Maori-
land in. the Niagara, for a tour that will tap
everything, from boiling mud in the Tikitere
gorge to glaciers on the chilly side of Mount
Cook. They are going to do the Wanganui
to the last fern leaf—an easy business in
these days—and dodge the edge of Eternity in
the Otira and Buller gorges.
Mr. H. T. Stone, of this hamlet, is also
packing up his kit for a seven-league trek
through M.L. scenery. He will swallow
sulphur perfumes in the Rotorua district,
and hurriedly unpack his top coat in the
frigid Southern solitudes.
Artist Watkins has temporarily laid aside
his brush, in order to he overhauled in a
private hospital. This is the sort of thing
that might happen to anybody.
At the George Reids’ tea-party to the
United States youngsters last week, in the
Wentworth Garden, one local guest was
served out to every three youngsters. They
sat thus, stolidly feeding under the shadow
of the Man with the Eyeglass, who addressed
them from a commanding floorboard on the
verandah. The alleged educative value of
trotting schoolboys round the earth is open
to query, by the way. The youth who would
take kindly to cold pie and fractions, after
the world’s promiscuous hospitality, must
have an extra steady cerebrum and cerebel-
lum too. The youngest urchin in this wan-
dering tribe athirst for information, looks
small enough to be spanked if he gives his
momma any top-lofty back-answers —some-
times described, I believe, in baser circles, as
“slack” —when he gets home.
Mrs. Clunies-Itoss has fled from the Ash-
field mosquito to the leafy heights of Black-
heath for a week or two. So many people
do this sort of thing that I wonder how
the poor old local mosquito scratches up a
crust at times.
The Charles Marsdens —she used to be
Miss Evie Thorne—of this city, find Aus-
tralian sunshine a fine physic after pro-
longed periods of British rainfall. They are
back again in Bowral, which used to be
their headmiarters. Later, young Marsden,
whose health hasn’t been up to schedule dur-
ing thMbSt ikar of two abroad; may go to
Bananaland to get back to -his old foimi.
Alan Binnie, the bright King’s' Sbho'oi
youth who ran away with a fat scholarship
last year, goes to England in February, when
the rest of the George Binnie family depart
for the same address. The N.S.W. scholar-
ship boy is entitled to four years at Oxford
or Cambridge on the strength of his brain-
fag.
Nestle Brae, the roomy suburban mansion
that sheltered the late George Fishburn and
his belongings for so many years, is to be
sold as part of the winding-up of the old
pioneer railway contractor’s estate. Mrs.
Georgie Paterson, a lately-widowed daughter,
will settle in Victoria after the hammer falls
on Nestle Brae.
The ancient and modern vice of overwork,
which grips some temperaments with the
tentacles of an octopus, fastened on the
well-known jeweller, Walter Hardy, of this
city. In the prime of life a serious nerve
breakdown caused a double tragedy. The
late Mr. Hardy, who suddenly became de-
mented on Saturday morning, shot his only
son Alan —a fine lad of 21—and committed
suicide in the same brief frenzy. It seems
to me, Ariui, that the world wants levelling
up. Some people work too much, and can’t
be dragged away from desk or counting-
house without the aid of a machine gun.
Others do nothing for ever in our public
parks. They toil not, neither do they wash,
and they use the daily papers to lull them
to sleep Under shady trees o’ nights. There
seems to be something wrong somewhere, as
Hamlet B. Irving remarked when lie hinted
that there Were white ants in the State of
Dehmark,
Baronet William Lever, of Sunlight Soap
renown, lg going to talk to this city on town
planning or. planting this week. Our muni-
cipal barn is the place. If Sunlight Lever
will hurl his remarks at the Man with
the Axe, he will address his conversation to
about 80 pet cent, of aldermen and land
agents. The art of chopping down every
green herb on sight has been practised with
enolmotis success found about Sydney for
the last 50 years. The big Soap King should
take a run otlt to Cronulla, and ask the
oldest inhabitant where, the trees that oflee
shaded its blazing headlands have gone to.
Then he’ll hear some facts and a good deal
of lurid language.
, Gerard. Williams, the young English min-
ing chemist who brought his pink cheeks to
Australia from S’Africa about three years
ago and “did” the big Australian mining
fields for the London Times, and afterwards
managed the Oxide mine in the backbfocks
of Queensland, has committed matrimony
at St. James’s, Piccadilly. It was an Inky
Way wedding, the lady being Doris, the
only child, of the late Tom Sowler, editor
and proprietor of the Manchester Courier',
and grand-daughter of old Sir Tom Sowler,
founder of the paper, and ohee a big factor
in English Midland politics. There have
been many Tory M’s.P. in the Sowler family;
but of late years they have taken to Pro-
tection, and the Courier has been one of
Joseph Chamberlain’s heavy-weight sup-
porters. Mr. Williams, who hadn’t been
two years in Australia before he became an
ehthusiastic Australian in most things—
even to the extent of writing bush verse for
The Bulletin— brings his missus to these
parts ; they are booked to leave London on
January 16.
Secretary Ross Gore, a bright and putting
light on the Rose Bay links, is preparing
for action on the course at Kosciusko.
A Sydney man, who was tearing round the
Bega cow district last week, diagnosed the
long frame of B. R. Wise in a cloud of dust
thereabouts. The legal limb had been rather
perturbed by a jibbing car in the middle of
a holiday that included one heat wave and
several threats of rain.
The Lucas Teeth family, or some of them,
have been paying flying visits to their big
dairying estate —Kameruka. This leafy Arcadia
is about 14 miles from Bes:a, on the South
Coast, where the evening breeze smells
sweetly of new cheese. Numerous friends,
relatives and connections of the House of
Tooth have been kicking up the dust with
their chariot wheels, dashing to and from
Kameruka. Bega has welcomed the absentees
with Rip Van Winkle reminiscences of long
ago, for the sight of the Lord of Kamer-
uka under his South Coast shingle is almost
as rare as the angel that arrived with the
blue moon under his arm.
Proprietor Berkeley, of Newcastle
Herald, and his wife are golfing under Kos-
ciusko’s wrinkled pate. He tells the local
ear many tales of St. Andrew’s Links
(N. 8.) and smacks the ball the while with
a several horse-power stroke. The Berkeleys’
guest, Miss Brand, who hails from the Land
of Scones, is another keen goffer in that airy
upland.
The Kosciusko Golf Carnival will strike
the trembling earth on January 26, and fin-
ish up two days later. The nine-hole course
includes six acres of lake. No absent-minded
gotter need fall into this pond, for the course
skirts the long valley at a safe distance from
the wet patch in the middle. The golf revel
opens with a Men’s Bogey Handicap and
Mixed Foursomes Stroke Handicap, on An-
niversary Day. This exertion will be fol-
lowed by the Ladies’ Stroke Handicap on
January 27. I hope they ’ll hit something
vefy Mi-dl-— if it’s only a caddie —for it’s a
pity to tiavel 310 miles not to smack a little
white bail.
J. F. Iluriey’s fiiiej photos of Java, which
he recently brought rack ffoifi that volcanic
patch, were thrown on. a! scteefi the other
afternoon. Manager J. C. H., Stusift,- of
the Royal Packet Line, gathered folethet.a
few Sydney folks for the occasion. A svVfft
procession of gorgeous tropic gardens, mud'
boiling over on scarred, evil-looking craters,
and native legs—the size of cabbage stalks —
were cinematographed with graphic effect.
Views of Boro Boedoer Temple ruins re-
called the fact that the ancient Buddhist
took his religion seriously in long flights of
steps. The Java guide-book advises travel-
lers to take their dinner (which they are
likely to need), after climbing over as much
of the terraced hilltop temple as their sense
of gravitation permits.
After three young lives, the sisters Louden
and the small nephew of the same name,
have been lost in the treacherous surf at
Blackwood’s Beach (Cronulla), an intelli-
gent witness suggested that a danger-
board should be immediately erected, as
the spot is a “death trap.” Last sum-
mer this place was rather popular
with unwary strangers, and no notices of
any kind warned casual surfers that they
were fooling with Death. The trouble is
that Death is so untidy. He never folds up
his clothes when he goes to bed at night, and
he leaves his miserable old boots anywhere.
The bit of beach that was safe yesterday is
often a whirlpool to-morrow, and the whirl-
pool of to-day is a prayer meeting or Sunday-
school next week. There are some steadily
reliable bathing places, but the rest are wet
wild cats, that break loose without warn-
ing.
The stern-browed Yaralla heiress, Eadith
Walker, went off in the Niagara, carrying
in her majestic retinue a maid, a chauffeur
and one of the youngish Street sisters. A
nephew, G. W. Walker, goes in the party,
and will have his imperial wants attended
to by a man-servant. That brainy old pio-
neer Thomas Walker, by the way, moved
about the earth without such a long tail to
the end of his spine in the bustling days of
his fortune-building. Mrs. John McCor-
mack and her pair of youngsters, and their
devoted Aunt Foley, hurried off in the same
mammoth liner, and pick up John and his
little lot at Auckland.
The M.L, tourist traffic is now convales-
cent, after a long and serious illness, due to
small-pox, with alarming complications of
strikitis. Last week's bookings from the
Sydney office rushed up to a total that makes
a record,. with one exception, for the whole
term of its seven years' search after Austra-
lian cash.
A recent sensation at Lemgchamps was a
small, toy-sized sunshade made of the tips
of grass-green feathers. The trimming tossed
about on top of a black hat, and was a
greater novelty than the foot-high plumes
which the Paris mannequin always steers
round this loud resort.
Manly is mixing its towels and bathing
gowns with Society frills, and our Most
Expensive legs may be seen there, kicking up
the sand and surf any evening. This season
the seaside village throbs with the desperate
desire of our Rich Hundred to keep on the
dizzy social racket in any temperature. The
squatting Ronalds, from Trinkey, are
amongst the swarms of mutton magnates
paddling in Manly’s breakers just now.
The giant grandfather, or Samson, of the
lobster family, lay stiff and stark on a
dressy deathbed at the Wentworth the other
evening. Director Lees was host at this
spread, which had a handsome trimming of
pink and white roses, and a small iceberg
illuminated with colored lights by way of an
extra. The gladiatorial crayfish, however,
was It.
Bondi Beach will palpitate with the arms
and legs of surfers on Saturday afternoon,
when the annual carnival of breaker-shooters
is to go down to the sea in its neck-to-knee
knitted armor.
The Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children
is staggering under a debt of £15,000. This
cheerless ending to 1913 has to be patched
up somehow during the next year or two, or
the sick babies will have to apply to the
Wolf at the Door before they can squeeze
through the portals.
While two-thirds of the world is at pre-
sent prepared to crack the skulls of
its enemies, friends, rulers and non-union
acquaintances, serious writers see a passing
analogy between the scanty draperies of
1913 and the “hysterical reaction” after the
Reign of Terror in France. “Who would
have thought,” mused Sebastian Mereier
long ago, “that these women with naked
feet, with all their toes covered with
diamonds, in resplendent salons, had just
been delivered from the Reign of Terror?”
Julius M. Price, in an illustrated volume on
Fashion, treats e£<te?rtricity of female attiTe
as infallible guides' to ,*cute periods in his-
tory. Just before, of jlisf after, nations are'
convulsed in a life and dea'th 1 struggle, femi-'
nine extravagance is said to fe&eh the giddy
height of frenzy. There is a hint! trouble’
to come, if Price’s deductions are collect, in l
the Smart lady who wears a feather-d'ifcter'
on her head, and a wisp of gauze round 1 feet 1 '
skeleton body.
Katherine Goodson, the long, lean streak
of elegance who played the piano hereabouts
a while ago, has been staying under the
Paderewski shingle at Morges. Her object
was to study the great “Pad ”, concerto at
first hand. Since then she has been giving
New York a taste of her quality in this
stupendous crash of the ivory keys, with an
ofe'Ms'ti-a to take up the running in the'
oiling.-
Singer A-Mfew Black warily returned from
a trip to M.Lv, a'fter the strike fever had
abated, so he esca'ped the feverish joy of
stoking which fell to 1 the lot of the Tailor’s
Pride, Kennerley Rfimford, in the recent
squabble with M.L. crews'., . Poking is bad
for the clothes, but it is said! to be occasion-
ally good for the health. The' a'mMeur goes*
down below with a shovel. He inhaler a* tow
of slack or dross, and completely rfiiitfs hfo
garments and loses 101 b. in weight. Their
he comes up, having earned 2s. or so, and hfo
mates tell him frankly what they think of his'
incompetence. Whereupon he hits them, and
presently the disturbance becomes general.
Mr. and Mrs. Hugh D. Mclntosh have
sent forth the usual preliminary notices on
folded paper, re the • wedding of their
adopted treasure, Lily, and Claude Gordon
Corbett. Jan. 27 is the date.
The Twelfth Night cake-cutting on the
Adelphi stage came this way from Drury
Lane Theatre, last year. Now it is becom-
ing a habit with the George Willoughby
management. The elder Irving had some
plum-cake reminiscences connected with this
ancient festival, which began as a kind of
supper party in memory of three kings and
some magi—very old identities in Bethle-
hem.
A Tango or Tangle Tea at the Tivoli last
week was the first of a procession of these
hops. Invited guests who ambled along just
at starting time had a magnificent view of
Castlereagh-street from the entrance to the
theatre, which commands an unrivalled out-
look upon the opposite pavement. A heated
mass of feathers, stout, silk-shod legs and per-
spiring humanity struggled for the staircase.
Presumably they saw something from an
inch or two of standing, room in d.c. or stalls
later on.
Gladys Hay, the good-looking girl from
London, who uplifts an impressive soprano
every evening in the Wentworth Garden, is
a pupil of the famous Baraldi. When a
minor constellation at Covent Garden feels
a frog lurking in his throat, or a crow caw-
ing in his chest, he dashes off to Baraldi, to
kill the beast with a few lessons in the best
Italian manner.
The Lewis Waller-Madge Titheradge team
slipped back to Sydney quietly, minus the
exhausting Society homage that hung about
their necks (like bricks) on their first
arrival. Waller in “Beaucaire,” which fol-
lows two forerunners, will find the matinee
girl in her old place, with her mouth full
of chocolates, and her heart thumping with
indigestion and excitement. The Sydney
girl is not more fickle than any other brand
of girl, but of late she has passed on the
heart-beats that used to belong to Julius
Knight to the nimble Fred Niblo. When
the Romulus Superbus strolled into a box
at the Criterion the other afternoon, he
might have been an alderman so far as the
matinfie maiden concerned herself about his
presence.
B. B. Jordan, who leads the Brisbane Aus-
tral Choir and Operatic Society on their
harmonious way, is cooling down in holiday
garb on the brim of these water-lapped shores.
He is the man John McCormack pounced on
to accompany his astounding tenor during the
Queensland tour. Vincent O’Brien was laid
aside at the time, with Partial amputation
of the head, as the result of a tram acci-
dent.
Still another local Voice defies the raven’s
croak, and goes to London in March. This
time it is of the male persuasion, and belongs
to Percy Sherwood. He is a pupil of Andrew
Black, and will warble in the ancient and
hereditary ear of Father Bull with a pleas-
ing tenor.
Paling’s forward a barcarolle with the cool-
ing prefix “Rippling Rivulet.” Edward
Tyrell is the perpetrator of this melodious
attack on the piano, which swishes up and
down the keyboard like a gurgling little creek
after heavy rain.
Katoomba owns a. small local mystery in
the shape of an empty house in its main
street. A few years ago. the occupants
locked up the place and departed. Since
then the door-key has never been turned,
and the only event has been the collapse of
the verandah roof. Whether the owners
went down in the Waratah or up in a bal-
loon, or merely wandered off and forgot they
had a house, Katoomba knows not.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


What the
B. & B.” CYCLE
helped C. Wilson to accomplish
at Newcastle. ——
■V ■
' "
-
LONG-DISTANCE RECORDS come
easy to the “B. and B.” Cycle.
Mr. C. Wilson, riding a “B. and B.”
Cycle, reached down these New Re-
cords for himself last month: —
NEW RECORD FOR 10 MILES:
17min. 45sec.
20 MILES: 35min. 27sec. Former
Record, 42min. 12sec.
25 MILES: 44min. lOsec. Former
Record, 51min. 57 sec.
1-HOUR RECORD: 34 miles 265
yards. Former Record, 31
miles 1425 yards.
So you can see that the “B. and B.”
Model Cycles are not merely “city-
road machines,” but machines that
will stand strenuous work on country
roads —machines that will stand strain
and the hardest treatment.
;So sure are we of the value in our
Machines that we will place any “B.
and B.” Model alongside any other
machine at the same price, for com-
parison purposes.
Not only are we the largest manufac-
turers in the State, but every one of
our Cycles are specially inspected be-
fore delivery. Hence we guarantee
them to be of the best British parts
and to run for 12 months without
trouble.
“B. 8 B.” MODEL CYCLES are priced from £6 10s.
And we invite you to call and see the fine stock we have. Especially we draw
your attention to our
“B. & B.” MODEL 3 CYCLE at £9 10s.
Which we fit with Dunlop Welch Multiflex Tyres. Our Showrooms are open every
Friday evening- till 9. If you cannot call during the day, call then.
COUNTRY RESIDENTS are invited to write for our Catalogue No. 835.
It contains full specifications, also illustrations of our Cycles, and we
post it free on request.
BENNETT & BARBELL Ltd.
The Largest Cycle-Building:
House in the State,
124-132 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
VICE-REQAL
fsd
BY APPOINTMENT.
JEWELLERS
Gold Keyless Watch, High-Grade Lever, with
15ct. Gold Expanding Bracelet, in Case,
£lO.
Gold Keyless Watch, High-grade Lever, with
15ct. Gold Expanding Bracelet, in Case,
£ll.
Gold Keyless Watch, High-grade Lever, with
15ct. Gold Expanding Bracelet, in Case,
£l4.
Wristlet
Watches
We have an ex-
tensive stock of
Dainty Watch
Bracelets from
the Plain Gold, at
£7/10/-, to the
magnificent Gem
Set, at £2OO.
A visit of inspec-
tion is welcomed.
If you cannot call
write for our com-
plete Catalogue.
Sent post free to
any address.
A selection will
be sent to the
country on
approval.
Hardy
Brothers Limited
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS,
J 3 Hunter St., Sydney; U 8 Queen St., Brisbane.
LONDON OFFICE: 17 & 18 WEST SMITHFIELD, E.C.
N.S.W. Bookstall Series.
FIGURES TALK.
1,500,000 Copies so/d of the Celebrated
" BOOKSTALL” Series of Australian Books.
This is the most popular Series and successful Library of Books ever issued.
The selection of stories is clean and wholesome, and treat with the conditions of life
in our sunny land, telling the traditions and experiences of a virile people appealing
to the heart of all Australians.
The stories issued form a complete library, and should be in every hoiUA
STORIES OF ROMANCE. SPORTING STORIES.
STORIES OF ADVENTURE. HUMOROUS STORIES.
DETECTIVE STORIES. SELECTION STORIES.
BUSHRANGING STORIES. HISTORICAL STORIES.
Attractively bound in colored wrappers and illustrated. All one price,
1/1, post free.
THE PYJAMA MAN,
by RALPH STOCK.
Author of “The Recipe for Rubber,” etc.
This is a smart story, written by an author who is rapidly making his way into the front ranks
of our most popular authors.
“The Pyjama Man” is a case of “True love never did run smooth.” We have, however, no
hesitation in saying that the book is bound to be a record seller. It will appeal to all readers of good,
wholesome fiction, and, as the ending is a happy one, the volume, when read, will be put down with
regret that it is finished.
SPORTING BOOKS.
“The Sport op Kings” has perhaps a bigger hold upon Australians than upon any other nation on
the earth. Born amongst horses, they love a good mount, and rejoice in the emulation that produces
the winners. These sporting books contain rattling racing yarns, stories of “The Ring,” and tales
of all sorts relating to sport in general. Likewise they are all purely Australian.
A ROGUE’S LUCK, by ARTHUR WRIGHT. 1/-, Post Free 1/1.
The reader is introduced to the undercurrent of the racing and boxing fraternity, and is never
short of excitement.
GAMBLER’S GOLD, by ARTHUR WRIGHT. 1/-, Post Free 1/1.
Illustrating the difficulties that beset the path of the gambler, whether in the two-up school, at
the card table, or on the turf. This story is full of “life” as found in the above-mentioned places.
THE MARE WITH THE SILVER HOOF, by 808 ALLEN. 1 /-, Post Free 1/1.
A rattling racing yarn, dealing with the “tricks of the trade” as practised in certain circles, and
telling how a favorite mare righted a woman’s wrong. A really good story.
EROS. EROS WINS! by F. AGAR. 1/-, Post Free 1/1.
A good horse is not always allowed to win, and many of the doubtful methods of preventing him
are exposed herein.
RUNG IN, by ARTHUR WRIGHT. 1/-, Post Free 1/1.
An attractive tale of the “turf,” with an excellent plot that reveals scenes and incidents full of
fun, fraud and tragedy.
THOS. E. SPENCER,
PRICE, 1/- per Vol. ; Post Free, 1/1.
Australia’s Subtlest humorist, and the writer of the best
Australian Recitations and Sketches this side
of the Equator.
Year after year he maintained that reputation, and he never sent to his publisher any book
that public opinion had not voted a DECIDED SUCCESS. Those who are fond of GENUINE
HUMOR and a HEARTY LAUGH should start with “MoDOUGALL,” and go right down the list.
It can be done for a SHILLING A SHOT, and will prove money well spent. Every book teems with
splendid RECITATIONS, such as clever amateurs love, and the variety is endless. The List to Date: —
How McDougall Topped the Score. The Surprising Adventures of Bridget
The Spring Cleaning. McSweeney.
Bindawalla. The Haunted Shanty.
Why Doherty Died. That Droll Lady.
Steele Rudd s Great Australian Books
In Cheap Editions. Price, Is. each ; Post Free, Is. Id.
All the Celebrated Illustrations have been retained, as these New Cheap Editions are printed from
the Original Stereos.
Sandy’s Selection.
Back at Our Selection.
From Selection to City.
On Our Selection.
Our New Selection.
The Dashwoods.
The Poor Parson.
Duncan McClure.
For Life.
Dad in Politics.
Stocking Our Selection
On an Australian Farm
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. And All Branches and Booksellers.
fsd
CRAIG & AITKEN,
A SMART MOUSTACHE
A smart moustache is the hall-mark of manliness —-why not possess
one ?
CAPILLARINE Will help you, as it has helped hundreds of others.
Oapillarine is safe, sure and successful —does not injure the skin- —no
fear of detection. Strengthens and promotes hair growth in a remark-
ableway. Apply at night before retiring.
GET A JAR TO-DAY 10/6, POST FREE.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each, Post Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
654- George Street, Sydney
Established 30 Years.
Let Me Entertain You
at Home To-night!”
The matchless voice of Melba in your own home
—is it possible —-to-night ? Yes, this incompar-
able artiste will sing to you whenever you wish
—just as she sings to thousands at the Royal
Opera. YOU can hear her at home to-night —
and ever afterwards if you possess
m
m
w
‘HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
fsd
GRAMOPHONE and
RECORDS.
The very atmosphere of Grand Opera they will
bring into your, home —wonderful singing, with
perfect orchestral accompaniment.
We request you to hear some of these perfect
musical instruments and records.
Instrument Catalogue, Record Lists and name of
nearest accredited dealer on request.
Price, £42/10/
Sole Concessionaires for
THE GRAMOPHONE
CO. LTD.
165 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
'Hj>MastftiVojcc


End of Season Shirt Clearance
BIG BONUS BARGAINS IN
MEN’S TUNIC SHIRTS.
For General Wear Tourist Shirts are Stylish, Com-
fortable, and afford the utmost satisfaction, so that
this end-of-the-season Clearance is an offering- you
will do well to investigate.
The material used in these shirts is Zephyr, being
most suitable for summer wear; made with wide,
shaped shoulders; gusseted sleeves and skirts; soft
front; with stiff cuffs and neckbands. Colors: Blue
Green, Mauve and Grey, with various Fancy Stripes. ’
CLEARANCE
PRICE...
0
and Less the 10 per cent. Bonus for Cash.
- - - -»■ V
FARMER’S, Sydney.
PITT, MARKET and GEORGE STREETS.
vl
&
“The Fashion in Fragrance!”
Parftin)
Lilas
The essence of the Lilac Bloom!
All the rage in Europe, and now
the favorite and fashionable Per=
fume in Australia. Manufactured
by Gustav Lohse, Berlin. The
Leading Perfumieres in the World.
Obtainable of all Stores throughout A ustralia
Sol?; Agent—
A. 0. SCHMIDT, William St.
MELBOURNE.
The
Oriental
Hotel,
MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA’S MODERN HOTEL.
Now open for the reception of Quests.
The most Hygienic Conditions and Refined
Elegance are distinctive features.
Any size suite of compartments.
Tariff from 15/- per day.
ERNEST McINTOSH, General Manager.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, January 12, 1914.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Help Tommy Curwen, late of the Fuller
staff, is now with G.-G. Denman. The
original Denman Helps have mostly drilled
away, and now the Barttelot pair are an-
nounced as fliers in the chill month of June.
Burnham, the long, languid sport, is due at
the marriage altar in March, where he has
an appointment with Maggie Niall. He is
not likely to return to Government House
wrap-carrying when he has a wife of his own
to work for. Nutting has been married off
in Ireland, and big Quilter is kept busy roll-
ing in the money his father left him.
The Denman dame was profoundly im-
pressed by the comfort of the coastal liner
that carried her to Westralia. She had a
suite consisting of bedroom, bathroom and
sitting-room, as comfortable as anything to be
had ashore; and there were numerous other
suites available for other passengers. The
vice-regal traveller says she can only com-
pare it to the accommodation of the luxurious
Atlantic boats. Also, the food was not
ship-flavored and she was not sea-sick,
though usually a bad sailor. “Altogether
I’m glad I went to Westralia,” says her Ex.
“It cut out a riding and camping trip I had
planned for the hill country—but I’m glad
I Went.”
The Denmans had no sooner fallen off the
Westralian steamer than they started to
give a garden party to the American base-
ballers. The visiting contingent includes
every kind, from university graduates with
ideas about art, eating and so on, down to
the big, muscular fellow who is just a ’ball
player all the time. They were drafted
through from corridor to drawing-room, then
given a side-run through the French win-
dows on to the terrace. In the drawing-
room, Chamberlain Nevill announced the
name of each guest, while Help Pollok stood
by in full uniform and gave him his moral
support. The handshaking was conscienti-
ously performed, though her Ex. looked a
trifle bored under her black liat-brim. The
ruddy Denman hair and fashionable white
skin looked very effective in the black frame.
The Barttelot dame and Miss Hugessen also
wore sable trappings. (I understand they
are in mourning for some royal personage or
other.) American Consul Magelssen was
included in the party. He had not seen a
game of baseball for nine long years, having
been exiled in Turkish Ajabia and other
places where the game is not. Canadian
Consul Ross was also on hand; and cricketer
Haver shepherded several Australians who
play. Tea was poured on the fountain ter-
race, Nevill carefully explaining to the visit-
ors that this was the palace backyard, so to
speak. Some of the strangers must have
wondered why they were being entertained
there. They have their own cino. man with
them, and he recorded their every movement
for the benefit of the worshippers at home.
Mrs. McGraw was a charming spectacle
frocked in something soft and mouse-colored.
She murmured, “Hurried visit? Why, we
are all the time in a hurry ! This is quite
a long stay!” Comisky, son of the million-
aire, was on hand with his wife, a tall, blonde
lady in blue, who matches her gigantic hus-
band nicely. When little old Ted Sullivan
arrived, clad in white, the travellers cheered
affectionately. Nevill hurriedly inquired
who he was, and then undulated towards
him. The little man dived at his pocket and
fished out a crumpled invitation card which
he presented at Nevill’s head with the tri-
umphant expression of a man who has come
“heeled.” The Denman lady entertained the
women folk in the evening at dinner, while
the men took a little nourishment with his
Ex.
The Denman lady remarks with much
spirit that she feels no work is too hard
when the establishment of a Repertory
Theatre is the object to be achieved. “Eighty
per cent, of the profits of my loan exhibition
will go to the Repertory Fund. The Arts
and Crafts get the rest.” Government
House ballroom, which is out of use for the
summer months, is to be divided elaborately
into rooms. Already loan antiques are being
shoved at her Ex. and she is inviting more.
Furniture, pictures, china, tapestries, laces
and old-fashioned clothes will all be shown.
It is intended to exhibit the gowns on
stands. Why not put them on living
models? The professional Society sweet-
and-programme seller who haunts charity
shows would just love to parade the terrace
in picture frocks of past times.
The American baseballers, who are taking
their world tour at top speed, played two
days in Melbourne and reckoned the city
“real fortunit” in getting so much of their
playing time. On Wednesday the M.C.C.
entertained the visitors, the G.-G. and others,
before the first match, in the club pavilion.
Eater on the visitors seemed to be a bit
sluggish in their play—and no wonder. The
day was scorching, and the champion runner
crouched underneath the reporters’ table
every chance he got and poured water on
his wrists from the drinking bucket. The
others did some languid, garden-party walk-
ing and puzzled the onlookers, some of whom
had seen the nimble sailors of the American
Fleet dash and slither through a few games.
The Giants and the White Sox looked like
Punchinellos in their baggy linen suits and
the leather pads that are necessary if they
would keep their skins whole while playing.
They marvelled at the beautiful M.C.C.
greensward, for they are used to performing
on bare, bumpy ground. A man with a
large mouth did the necessary howling for
the players, and kept people from looking too
hard at the catcher with a leather skeleton
outlining his anatomy and a sort of meat
safe over his face. When the little G.-G.
walked on to the field to pitch the first ball
for the inflated strangers, he looked a meek,
interfering midget who was taking an un-
necessarily big risk. Gentle Tommy Curwen,
who has somehow grown on to the Denman
staff, stepoed nervously behind his chief and
seemed relieved when they got clear again.
The Denman lady watched the subsequent
proceedings from under the brim of a shady
black hat. Miss Hugessen wore a blue lid
and gentle blue eyes. The Harris lady, who
is visiting Government House, did her best
to. look interested. Chamberlain Nevill,
cricket devotee, sat in the seat behind the
ladies and grimly described the game as
“rounders.” The party left at the tea in-
terval, when the Barttelot pair, with their
twin boys, occupied the vice-regal pen. Par-
liamentary identities roamed about and tried
to look like sports. The “gate” was much
heavier than was expected, and, as only one
tea-room was opened, the Best People showed
their Worst manners by ruining one another’s
hats in the struggle for something to eat and
drink.
A military man of high rank has been
suffering lately through the attentions of a
lady who persists in sleeping on his front
doormat. The patient officer has several
times led the visitor outside the gate, and
on each occasion he has been rewarded with
a blistering speech. “Bah!” snorted the
lady, after one polite eviction, “I could buy
and sell you ten times over!” “And so she
could,” sighs the weary warrior, who won-
ders why the lady’s people don’t keep a
stricter eye on her when she most needs it.
A packed house farewelled Waller as
Beaucaire. The Denmans, with their friends
and a crowd of Gentleman Helps, filled two
boxes. In another box were Julius Knight
and Irene Browne, the latter posing inter-
estingly in green. Julius disappeared after
the first act, his place being taken by the
indispensable Tommy Cochrane; but he re-
turned in time to stand up in the box and
lead, the applause at the final curtain.
Lewis’s speech—delivered in two spasms
owing to the premature lowering of the rag
—was liberally sprinkled with flattering re-
ferences to “my friend Mr. Knight,” and
the manner in which he assured everybody
that he had had a “ripping” time hereabouts
made the girls in the gallery and the middle-
aged females in the stalls more K.O.W.
(Keen on Waller) than ever.
Melbourne audiences found it hard to
accept Waller as the Beaucaire. His legs
are. inferior to the understandings of Julius
Knight, and the props of the company aren’t
any better than the star’s own. Then Waller
seems to be less careful about details than
the truly artistic Julius. Crossing his
stockinged limbs in full view of the stalls,
he revealed frayed tinsel where the gold-
embroidered clocks should have been.
Imagine that in a costume play!
The yachting men are cheerfully polishing
their buttons, whitewashing the bos’n and
nailing the bowsprit to the rudder, in readi-
ness for the new Governor, who is said to
be a real table salt himself. Denman only
manages to display a polite interest in the
sport, and the departed Fuller wanted noth-
ing but horses —not the wild, white horses
of the Lord and Kipling, but galloping land
animals.
Metallurgist Linsley Smith, of Ballarat,
who is known to the young sports of Mel-
bourne as “Pin” Smith, is booked for matri-
mony with a wool heiress. The bride-elect
is Ruby, daughter of Mrs. Edwin Austin,
and the wedding is noted in the Best People’s
engagement books for Tuesday evening.
February 17. at 8 o’clock, in All Saints’
Church. St. Ivilda. The subsequent festivi-
ties will be at All Saints’ Hall.
L’Avenir, the Belgian training ship, will
be round and about here until February. It
presents a wonderfully spick and span ap-
pearance despite dusty wharves and the
stress of cargo unloading. The masts are
brilliantly white to the last little spar, as if
some young and agile matron had gone over
them with her white enamel brush. Captain
Rushall just been attached to Com-
mandant Corneille by the Commonwealth, and
a visit to Sydney has been arranged for the
cadets at the end of the week. There is a
schoolroom aboard the ship, with a black-
board and a professor with immense lip
whiskers. When he and his whiskers are
having a rest the doctor, who has beautiful
blonde face fittings, teaches physiology and
anatomy. Corneille also teaches these much-
tutored youths at intervals; there really isn’t
much brain space left over when the other
instructors have done with them; but the
boss manages to squeeze in a few odds and
ends. I resrret to say that Corneille has
docked the Titian-waxed whiskers that used
to curl up to his blue eyes and received
honorable mention on this page. But he is
still able to teach —a fact which seems to
show that a man’s mental processes are not
affected by such rash acts. The cadets have
a fine orchestra and play classical music
when they are not sawing off a tango for the
non-players to dance to. Everything on
board (bar the crew) is hung so as to mini-
mise the effects of the ship’s roll. The tables
are hung, and in the hospital, where two
cadets are doing a graceful recovery, the
hanging beds automatically adjust them-
selves to the angle of the ship. “They rock
them to sleep at night,” growled a visiting
German captain. “We didn’t have swings
and we didn’t have fiddles when I was a
cadet; instead the master played fiddles with
us and gave us a rough-and-tumble time.”
(All old and middle-aged men have had a
Spartan bringing-up. The older they were,
the harder they were kicked and thrashed in
the uncorroborated long ago.) One of the
cadets has fallen violently in love with a
Melbourne girl. As he is 22, impetuous, and
the son of an influential Belgian, he has
managed to free himself of the ship and get
a lien on an Australian job as electrical
engineer. The marriage is to be soon. A
ship that preceded the L’Avenir was the
Comte de Smet de Naever, which was lost
with all hands. Corneille was commander,
but, luckily for him, he happened to be ab-
sent on political business at the time of the
’disaster. Alas! how many brave sailors
could have been saved by being absent from
their wrecks! The saved mariner is a great
yachtsman, and belongs to the Royal Yacht
Club of Switzerland, or Bolivia or Bohemia
or somewhere. He has a yacht knocking
about Ostend, and an old yachting friend is
at present in Australian waters. The afore-
said friend is Captain Yoss, of the “Black
Germans” (German-Australian line). The
N.D.L. are known to seafaring folk as the
“White Germans.” *
Charlie “Major” Campbell and a number
of other motored sports sent their cars down
to meet the visiting baseballers. One free
and independent ’bailer dumped his suit-case
in a near-by four-wheeler and drawled, “The
Oriental Ho-tel, Ivallins-street.” But cabbie
hadn’t the courage to kidnap him. “Car
there for you, sir,” he mumbled, and pointed
at the waiting fire-chariots.
The American baseballers were impressed
with the grandeur and size of the Melbourne
Cricket Ground. From the centre of the
green they stared wonderingly at the ring
of towering stands. Comisky Park only
holds 38,000 or so—and the Park is the
biggest ball ground the States have. It is
owned wholly and completely by Comisky,
the millionaire who is the grand uncle of the
White Sox. It is a large concrete amphi-
theatre, and prices vary from several dollars
down to a few cents. In New York, the
devotions are performed on the polo ground.
Ted Sullivan, a little, old, white-haired man
who is proud to be called “the daddy of base-
ball” speaks of the game as “elevatin’.”
“Why, baseball is nearly the national game
of the Japanese now,” he says. “They
caught it from us. They play it too in the
Philippines, an’ wherever the game takes a
holt it improves the mor’l tone of the dark
people.” Three of the players are Red In-
dians, and one has his Indian bride with
him.
Rita Weigall, daughter of Dr. R. E.
Weigall, of Elsternwick, is engaged to Mr.
A. Neilson Lamb, of Glasgow.
Minnie Grant Bruce, the Australian girl
who writes bush stories for children, lately
went to England to look up some of her rela-
tions. Major George Bruce, a forty-second
cousin, was looked up so successfully that
an engagement is announced. Minnie will
return to Australia, and her Major will fol-
low after for an Australian wedding.
The well-fed baseballers have to hurry
back to the States in time to train for next
season. Every year the ’ball men go down
south to “Noo Orleans,” and there work
themselves into condition. When they strike
the thawed-out North they are keyed up to
concert pitch. It’s a vurry serious business,
believe me.
After a two years’ absence Mr. and Mrs.
Walter Butler have returned to Studley,
Toorak. One year was spent in travel in
Europe—a year during which architect
Butler garnered new ideas for professional
use. Studley, built from Mr. Butler’s de-
sign, is “the house with the green windows”
just before you get to the village of Toorak.
It has been occupied during the Butlers’
absence by the Jack Baillieu-Madden pair
and their young infant.
A young country matron, temporarily in
town, was shocked at the amount of legs on
view at a smart Toorak dance. “Bless you!”
said her fashionable sister, the hostess, “it
is quite correct. The only unforgivable
crime of the moment is to show your ears.”
Freakish fashion has temporarily knocked
out a melodious old-fashioned word. Hence-
forward no discreet builder of light verse
will be able to write sweetly of “furbelows”
at least not till they go out or woman finds
some better use for her fur trimmings.
Hamilton Russell, the handsome bachelor
medico who has remained both of them
(handsome and bachelor) throughout the
years, was lately farewelled by brother doc-
tors and the Alfred Hospital Board, before
setting out on a foreign ramble which is to
last six months.
A beautiful person who seems to belong
to the ecclesiastical species has been per-
ambulating the Block recently just about the
tea hour. He has the beautifully-gaitered
legs of a bishop, the beaming face of a popu-
lar young curate, and the nondescript but
well-cut coat of an American new chum.
On one finger (not on two, mind you !) he
wears a tremendous amethyst ring about the
size of a doorknob.
This year, for lack of hired girls, a num-
ber of the squattocracy had to cancel their
New Year bush revels. A pathetic tale is
told of a moneyed Western District beauty
and a still richer girl visitor who were com-
pelled by domestic circumstances to roast
their homestead mutton and actually do a
period of hard labor at the family wash-tub.
God help those who have to help themselves!
Lewis Waller’s Nancy was permitted to
observe bush life, as it is staged at the
McLeod’s place, at Merino Downs. Now she
will be able to write a great bushranger
drama, or become an authority on back-
blocks Australia.
Within the brief space of a fortnight,
Wenman, of the J. C. Williamson forces,
married Miss Flossie Dickenson, hurried to
the Blue Mountains for a busy man’s honey-
moon, and got back to Melbourne and hard
work again. The bride was on the stage
until within an hour of the wedding. Pre-
sents and good wishes descended in a sort of
showerbath from the stage-folk who were
let into the secret, while the general public
wallowed in ignorance of the joy. Only
relatives and seconds of the principals were
present at the ceremony. The bride’s famous
smile was well photographed from every
point of view in church, taxi and express.
Dancing sister Maggie Dickenson brides-
maided in a snood of pearls.
Ambrose Patterson has been doing some
portrait work, and intends having a show
when the thermometer shows signs of re-
turning sanity.
My singed contemporary, Table Tai.k, is
gossiping under difficulties just at present;
but three different printing houses are help-
ing the weekly out by handing over the
machinery to the T.T. printers in between
working hours.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
Mr. T. S. Reed, the secretary of the South Aus-
tralian Branch of the Royal Geographical Society,
recently applied for an increase of salary. Also he
asked for two months’ leave of absence, so - that
he might go fishing in Tasmania. He is only 96
years of age, so his requests, the outcome, doubt-
less, of youthful exuberance, were readily granted.
Mr. E. R. Waite, curator of the Canterbury
Museum, at Christchurch, M.L., will assume control
of our curiosities (inanimate, be it understood, as dis-
tinguished from Parliamentary and social) in April.
He is a scientist, also a linguist, likewise an
artist; so if any of the exhibits try to escape he
can follow and remonstrate in the language of their
country of origin, and, if they still persist, threaten
to paint them. In fact, he is the right custodian in
the correct place.
Nearly everybody with either money or an over-
draft is still away; and many of those that have
neither are lying low, or doggo, in the coal-hole,
and pretending to be at some cheery seaside resort.
The social life takes a lot of living up to.
Imbued ae they are with the prevailing spirit, the
J. 11. Gordons continue to reside at Kangaroo Island ;
as also do Mrs. J. ft. Anderson and Mrs. George Box.
Mr. Dutton has been hovering about Kingseote in the
Adele, with a party which includes Miss Kate
Gardner, and would have included the John Downers
had not whooping cough laid its devastating and
uproarious hand on the Downer baby. As it is the
entire family is at home, watching the unhappy
infant whoop.
The Willie Popes and Mrs. Bussell put in a peace-
ful week at Port Elliott. Talking of Peace, the
Papacy, etc., the Tom Popes have sold Sunnyside,
once the home of the Milne clan at Glen Osmond,
and are leaving shortly for the place most people go
to when they sell an attractive residence.
Duncraig, at Mount Lofty, has also been sold. It
was built by the Walter Duncans, and was popularly
supposed to have cost them anything from £lO,OOO up-
wards. It went cheap to the Timms, who passed
it on at a still lower figure to the Charlie Irwens.
There is nothing in constructing marble halls these
days.
From England comes news that the George Wyn-
yards (she was Miss Nellie Fotheringhain) have
achieved the most amazipg, powerful and distract-
ingly beautiful son on record. Mrs. Fotheringhain
has been in London since November, and speaks of
exhibiting the son in Australia towards the end of
the year. The T. G. Wilsons are on their way back,
likewise Mrs. George Brookman.
Mr. W. J. Sowden, of the Register, left on Satur-
day by the eastward-bound Orient mailboat, for
Sydney and Brisbane. He will be away three weeks.
A cable from England announces the death of Mrs.
11. Hughes, eldest daughter of the late Dean Marryat,
and a granddaughter of the first Dean of Adelaide.
Since her marriage she had been living in England,
where her husband was an Anglican cleric. She
leaves one son, who is in the navy.
Mr. H. S. Power, who has just returned from Mel-
bourne, is making arrangements for an exhibition of
his pictures here early in March.
At the recent Society of Arts show, Harcourt's
“Maid in Grey” did something to raise the standard
of the figure section. The trustees of the Gallery-
thought over it, but a nrivate buyer stepoed in and
took possession, and the picture now decorates a
house in Glen Osmond. The Melbourne trustees
ought to have selected this representative work of a
Melbourne artist; but they are developing cataract
in looking for spurious Rayburns, doubtful Hoppners,
and the studio-sweepings of Claude Monet. Harcouri
is bringing a show to Adelaide next month.
Yours affectionately.
JOHANNA.


When you go away, you need to
be secure in your Baggage
You know the sense of security that really good travel=proof
bags will bring.—— ~
When your trunk is slung into the steamer’s hold—truly its
locks must needs be sturdy; its frame of the kind that is
made for wear.
When your Suit Case leaves the luggage van and is tumbled
and bumped and has to bear the added weight of others, then it
is that QUALITY and STRENGTH prove their real worth.
Pike Brothers Limited feature below a few selected items that
have about them that sense of true security, sturdiness and
lastingness so vitally and absolutely necessary if you would have
YOUR belongings safely cared for on every journey you take.
The "DEFIANCE ” Suit Cases
save yon weight. Steel-strung, reinforced Fibre, capped
with Leather Corners where the wear comes. Built on
Steel Frames, two Nickel lever, double-action Locks.
Solid Leather Suit Cases
fashioned from solid, nut-shade Cowhide, reinforced with
Leather-capped Corners. Steel Frames.
22in. 24in. 26in.
52/0 57/6 62/6
Deeper .. 72/6 77/6 85/-
The Ever-Popular Gladstone
Preferred by many folk because it is compact, easily-
got at, and of a handy shape and size. Nut-shade
Cowhide, Sliding Nickel Locks and Straps all
round.
Graded according to Quality.
Solid Cowhide Kit Bags
So handy for the Saturday-to-Monday break. Use-
ful to have with you in the cabin or carriage.
Nickel Side Lock and Turnover Clips.
14in. 16in. 18in.
19/6 21/- 24/-
20in.
27/6
A CABIN TRUNK
that is better than usual. Fashioned of Fibre,
covered with Brown Willesden Canvas; double-
action, Brass Lever Locks ; neatly lined, with tray
inside. Protected with Boxwood Battens; rein-
forced with Brass Clips just where the wear comes.
30in. 33in. 36in.
55/- 60/- 65/-
f
The "HAWKEYE” Refrigerator Basket
(With the little ice compartment.)
The uses of the “Hawkeye” Basket are innumerable. Its construction makes the
basket available for purposes where other baskets are useless. It is lined with
Zinc, heavily Nickel-plated, and carries two compartments. One of these com-
partments (removable) carries ice. With a very small quantity of ice a large
basket- of food and liquid refreshment may be kept cool and fresh during a day s
outing.
The basket is easy to wash and keep clean. The lid is removable.
For Motor Picnics, Motor Launch Trips, Train Travelling, & for the Home.
The “REGULAR,” Three Sizes —
Size 0, 27/6; Size 1, 30/-; Size 2, 35/-
“DE LUXE,” Larger Size, Handsomely Finished, 50/-
“AUTO.” Specially constructed for the Automobile. Will accommodate sufficient
for five, 65/-
“No. 2 AUTO.” Capable of carrying provisions for a large party, 95/-
sdf
TD
dsf
TOWNSVILLE
BRISBANE
TOOWOOMBA


. z
Bon Ami
For
Windows
Cleaning
windows is
the easy
task with
Bon Ami.
Q
Bon Ami has a velvety fineness and
does its work without scratching.
will
For
Painted
Wood
Worh
Bon Ami
will not hurt
the paint-
removes the
dirt only.
Bon Ami
•»s
The most wonderful cleaner in the
world invaluable because of its
many uses in the home>
THe World’s Best.
PAIMLER
Motor Lorry.
Silent Knight Engine.
Shaft Drive No Chains.
sd
fsd
SUNSHINE
Motor Cars P*t’y
Melbourne.
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney & Adelaide,
Sole
Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITES
* * * *
“S.H.G.” : Every bush-pub isn’t the bush-
pub of lambing-down literature. I was on the long
track that uncoils itself from Temora to Barellan
(N.S.W.), and turned in at a pub to get particulars
about the last duststorm. A swaggie was stamping
up and down the verandah, swearing hard. Then he
went inside. “Well, ’ave yer changed yer mind
yet?” Bung looked at the clock. “Five minutes,”
he said. Then, after five minutes more of stamping
and swearing, the bagman came back and Bung
handed out a modest beer. “Wot!” yelled Bags,
“ye’d insult me with that!’’ and he rolled out
again, but thought better of it, and came in and
drank the beer. “An’ ’ow long ’as that got to last
me?” “An hour,” said Bung, who was the only
cool feature of the landscape. “An hour?" shrieked
the nearly-drunk, and collapsed. They dumped him
out on the verandah, and presently there was more
language and noise. That went on for three hours—-
which meant three beers. Then he got tired and
picked up his swag, and there was another duststorm
wandering along the road. I asked Bung what the
idea was. He said he’d made enough money to do
without melting down drunks’ cheques, so when they
got to a certain stage he limited them to a beer an
hour. A few more Bungs like that, and the Wowsers
would have to look for work.
IN TOPHET.-THE NARROW PATH.
Testing the skating rinkers.
“Albion” : I don’t know whether it’s true,
but this is what he told me. It was at Mitchell
(Q.), and he was a scalper, who was just then out
after the coat Of our national bird, the kangaroo. He
had, he said, let his horse go with a waterbag hung
round its neck. He shot four fine ’roos near a dry
waterhole, and, wounding another of the family, fol-
lowed it for a quarter of a mile. When he returned
to the dry hole a big grey kangaroo was leaning-
up against the nag helping himself to water out of
the bag. Another time, when he was droving, he
was hard pushed for water. He came across a
large bottle-tree, opened it and got sufficient water
for his thousand sheep. A bagman the following day
caught a 401 b. cod in the same tree. He also told
me some things Tweedie had told him; but I’m
afraid Tweedie is a bit of a liar.
“Eddyson”: Myer was celebrated in and
about Ironbark as a slow thinker. Probably no
other thinker not actually stock-still was as slow as
Thomas Myer. On one Saturday evening Thomas’s
house took fire, and Thomas, dimly conscious of the
fact that something must be done, cut himself a
stick,’ walked in to Seymour and rang the firebell
at two o’clock on the following Sunday morning.
When the brigade assembled, demanding details,
Thomas explained to the best of his limited ability
that his house was afire out at Ironbark —a four-
roomed wooden house to the left as you cross
Willies’ bridge. If the brigade had been on the in-
flamed premises several hours earlier it would have
been just in time to extinguish the last spark.
Tom thoroughly understood this when it was ex-
plained to him, and walked back to his cold hearth,
bearing no grudge. One night a party of ’possumers
along the Goulburn mooned Myer in a gum, and had
a shot at him on spec. Myer fell from branch to
branch, struck earth, and, rebounding, streaked for
the hills. Because of the peculiar conditions, and
because Myer had not a rag of clothes on, the ’pos-
sumers streaked after him. There was a vague idea
among the sports that he was something wild and
woolly that would be of incalculable value in the
show business if overtaken and caged. There’s a
vague sort of notion abroad in the bush that there
is no close season for wild men of the woods, and
several shots were fired at Myer as he leaped through
the moonlit spaces. Overcome by loss of blood,
Tom succumbed after a five miles’ run, and was
taken. The disgust of his pursuers when they dis-
covered he was just a plain being, with no extraor-
dinary plenitude of hair, and no peculiar markings,
was vented in characteristic bush idiom. It was all
very tiresome. “Wotinell” was Myer doing up a
tree? “Wyinell” was he up a tree without Chris-
tian covering, if it wasn’t his deliberate intention to
deceive? “Howinell” could he expect to get off
without a punch in the jaw in- such aggravating cir-
cumstances? Myer explained while Summer held
the matches, and Kidd and Question picked shot out
of him with their penknives. “Yeh see,” said Tom,
“I had a date with me girl this side the river.
Minnie Elliot she is, an’ she’s a bit pertickler. I
hadn’t time t’ go round be the bridge, s® I took
off me clothes over there, an’ swum acrosst. Then
when I was over ’ere it come on me all iv a
sudding I couldn’t see Min without me clothes.
Then I had a ’appy thought, an’ slipped up a tree
t’ hide frum me girl. A good way, wasn’t it? Min
had bin sittin’ under the tree a hour, waitin’ fer me,
when you blokes cornin’ frightened her away. S’elp
me, I wouldn’t ha’ believed there was so many ants
an’ muskeeters in all Hostralia.” Kidd flicked out a
duck shot, and said: “Look ’ere, bloke, why didn’t
yeh swim back fer yer clothes in the first place?”
Tom Myer thought the matter over. “Yes,” he
said deliberately, “yes, that would ha’ bin a good
way too.”
* * * *
“Billy T.” : Two of Crotty’s hands, Plain
and Watson, were very bad friends. Their real
disagreement sprang from a mutual affection for
Crotty’s handmaiden, Jane, but they fought over
anything else that came up or chanced along. If
Plain had the tallow rag greasing his boots, Watson
would want it, and in the scrap that invariably
ensued Watson received the father of a hiding. But
Watson was the sort of man who regarded a Homeric
thrashing as quite a minor matter. “A week or a
month later yer no worse off,”
said he. And Watson had no honor,
no conscience, and no respect for the
rules of the game. As it happened,
Plain was extremely fortunate in
being a fair Cornish wrestler, and
having some judgment and capacity
when it came to a kick-up with fists.
Watson was licked five times in rapid
succession. The last battle had been
“all-in”; but if Plain could not
kick as hard as Watson, he could
kick quicker, and when it comes to
kicking the game is to the quick.
Plain kicked Watson’s solar plexus
into a curious lump, and Watson fell
into a fit of silence that lasted five
hours. Watson when he recovered
was dissatisfied with the judgment,
and showed a moody temper. Two
days later Plain was working the
chaffcutter. A poignant yell drew
Watson into the shed. He found
Plain with three fingers missing, and
two hands jambed ,in the works.
“For God’s sake yput her back!
I’m done!” pleaded Plain. “What,
you can’t shift?” said Watson. Obvi-
ously Plain could not shift, and his
subsequent yells brought Crotty to
his assistance. Watson had got
him where he wanted him, and was giving
him particular Gehenna. Crotty knocked Watson
blithering with a shovel handle. Subsequently Wat-
son, sitting up in his own blood, fondling his head,
which looked as if it had been exploited with a tin-
opener, said: “S’welp me, if you’d on’y ha’ left me
alone, I’d ha’ licked him that time.”
* * » *
“McKunda”: Gohannas often take to the
water for protection; I have seen them repeatedly
dive into bore streams and swim for a con-
siderable distance. They seem to stay under for
an unlimited time, too. The offensive brutes are no
curs, by the way; I have often been challenged by
them in the bush. Standing erect, they can strike a
severe blow with the tail. The bite is like that of
an alligator on a small scale, while the slash of the
fore-paws resembles that of a miniature tiger. Still,
’goey, rather than fight, will generally climb a tree,
dive into water, or dock down a handy rabbit
burrow.
NOT TO BE HAD.
S WAGGIE : “ Ye'd better
get away from here ,
mate. I heard up the
road a banker's cornin'
down."
IRRITATED NEWCHUM:
“ Wotcher tyke me for —
a bloomin' defaultir'
benk clerk?"
“Ding Bat”: Maoriland’s tutu plant
hasn’t had the attention it deserves. Its effects on
sheep, cattle and human beings are varied. Sheep seem
to stagger and develop St. Vitus’s dance before they
finally drop; while cattle paw the ground, froth at
the mouth and develop a paunch. Some people cure
sheep by bleeding them at the mouth or at the eye,
but the best mode is to cut the roof of the mouth
and hold the head up. I have very rarely known this
to fail. Cattle recover quickest if given a copious
draught of kerosene, and, in the more serious cases,
if a 4-inch chisel is pushed into their insides about six
inches forward and below the hip bone. I’ve noticed
that tutu poisoning develops only when stock are
driven and heated. Also, the vegetable is dangerous
only at certain, and, seemingly, indefinite, periods of
the year. Here’s another peculiarity. The juice of
the tutu berries is not poisonous. I have drunk it
many times, by means of twisting a handkerchief
full of berries over my mouth. It’s not bad, either,
but, if you try it, don’t swallow so much as one
pip.
* * * *
“S.S.”: The sudden demise of two Aus-
tralian snake-charmers in one day, as a result of a
nip apiece, sets me thinking, and I arrive at the
conclusion that Australian bushmen have a quaint
penchant for Snake. Of course, the majority bruise
his head as Scripture adviseth (Genesis iii., 15), but
there is a curiously large minority with a kindly
feeling for old Serpent, arising, no doubt, from grati-
tude towards the original viper, without whose inter-
vention there would have been no beer. Jim Evans
had a keener affection for snakes than any other
man I ever knew. James (strange to say his name
was Jim) was never without a snake or two, and
sometimes he had all the snakes in season. He
generally carried a snake around with him in an
old tin billy. He was in the habit of setting the
billy on pub counters, and whistling a lively strain,
whereat the snake poked his head out of a round
hole in the billy-lid, to the great surprise of all
adjacent persons. One night Cody was standing too
near, and Jim’s snake led for him, and hit him on
the chin, but did not get into holts. Cody threw
a back somersault, and came up deadly pale and
shaking. “He sthruck me!” said Cody in a whis-
per. “He hit me, he did.” “Tut-tut, man, that’s
nothing,” replied Evans. “See all them marks on
me like vaccination spots? Them’s bites!” “And
did this wan do anny iv them bites?” asked Cody.
“He did. But, Lor’ love yeh, it’s on’y his playful-
ness. He don’t mean no harm.” “You murtherin’
cow!” said Cody. He said no more; he was too
full for oratory. Besides, he was busy about Evans.
When he was through, poor Jim looked like an
aeronaut who had fallen into dead timber. Then
Cody dashed the billy down, and jumped it flat.
After which he bought two bottles of rum with the
small change he had knocked out of Evans’s clothes,
and started out on a premeditated jag. Father
Ryan met him when he had one and three-quarter
bottles in, and admonished him like a Dutch uncle.
“Will yeh be shtill ?” commanded Cody. “’Tis
for me chin!” For years after that, “’Tis for me
chin!” was a proverb with the drinking men of Cat-
nip and district.
“Fa Pooa” : A wizened old savage strolled
into the store on Woodlark Island and exhibited a
bone dagger. Through my store boy I gathered that
the aged one wished tp “trade” ■ it, and that the
price was two “sticks.” I examined the lump of
deceased man, and could find nothing beautiful or
curious about it, except that there were some 15
notches cut in it. I was about to hand it back, when
my boy interjected: “More better you buy ’em,
taubada. This one he lcausara [good]. You savvy
markis [pointing to the notches]. S’pose ’e makem
woman b’long ’im finish, ’e makem ’nother one
markis, allsame.” As the purveyor evidently could
find no further use for the cutlery in his old age and
these semi-civilised times I purchased it, and the
discolored Deeming went his way.
A BROKEN MELODY.
MUSICAL LODGER (to complaining landlady):
“You must have a very bad ear, Mrs.
Hicks."
LANDLADY : “ You're right — they're both that
bad I can't stand the row any longer."
“Errant”: Men were scarce for the har-
vesting at Tilc-tik, and Ilayband wanted two men
badly for winnowing. He was told that two swag-
men were camped under the town bridge, so he
harnessed up and drove off to rope them in. When
he arrived at the bridge he saw a couple of swagmen
sure enough. A notice pinned on one of the strangers
caught his eye: “Don’t wake us under nine bob a
day and tucker.” “Well, I’ll have to pay it,” he
thought. “Hi,” he yelled. Both bagmen sat up.
“What’s the matter ?” they asked. “Can yers
whinny?” said Hayband. “Do yer think we’re
horses?” they replied, settling down again to their
disturbed slumbers.
(Continued on page 24.)
MAKING SURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Cloncurry, Tuesday.—....found dead yesterday.
.... Indications.... death due to thirst. — Telegram.
Ben Hyne was in a Bourke-street pub,
And with undying zest he drank ;
The barmaid said he was a tub,
But he aspired to be a tank.
Ben had but one concern —a fear
That ere the closing hour was here
He might o’erlook a passing beer.
Old Hyne was cornered near the bar,
Two walls to hold him. He was wise.
He drank a dozen with a “tar,”
And fifteen with the blessed flies.
And still his thirst was great and grand,
And stately still Old Ben could stand,
A pewter pot in either hand.
“Say, do you never stop?” they asked.
“Or have you an ambition fine
To swallow all the beer that’s cashed?”
He answered: “No such scheme is mine.
But some bloke up Cloncurry way
Pegged out from thirst the other day,
And ‘take no risks’ is what I say!”
victoria.
BILLY T.


“He who wastes Time
murders Opportunity.”
“CPACE and Time, its invisible brother, are perhaps the two
greatest enemies of mankind, writes Maeterlinck.
“Could we but conquer these, we should be as the gods.
Life is short enough without a man wasting time. To do so
means wasting energy, vitality and opportunity. Be up-to-
date and do things the quickest way ! For instance
These Tools give Time a Setback.
fds
“I wan” Post
Hole Digger four
times faster than
crowbar and spade
Bores the hole just right
size. Hardly any ramming
to do. Firmer fence. Well
known as a time saver. 3in.
7/-, 4in. 71-, sin. 7/-, 6in. 7/-,
7in. 7/6, Sin. 8/6, 9in. 9/6,10m.
10/-, 12in. 27/-, 14in. 34/-
“Buffalo” Treadle
Grinder 10 times
faster than a grind-
stone.
A simple steady foot pres-
sure sends the grinding
wheel spinning at 3,000
revolutions per minute,
just like a power griuder.
Doesn’t draw the temper.
Stands close to the wall.
Sturdy and strong. 30/-
as shown.
e*
ro.
No. 99 B will save
you time and
worry.
Starrett Level and Tran-
sit 998 saves time and
risky guesswork on
Drainage, Irrigation
Work, Grading, Height
of Springs, and such land
jobs.
80/- Complete
A Swan Wood Borer
4 times faster than a
brace or auger.
A wonderful time and ener-
gy saver on
woodwork.
Great for put-
ting wire holes
in fence posts.
Great for any
kind of boring.
Bores at any
angle. Sturdy
and strong.
22/6
Heaps of Time
Saved Heaps
of Wood Sawn
Don’t work your arm off
using a crosscut. This
bench soon pays for itself.
Heavy N on-Shrinking
Frame. Non-Tilting
Travelling Table. Brac-
ing to prevent warping.
£l2/10/0 with 30in. Saw
Earth Scoops are Time Savers.
This Steel Scoop cuts quickly, is light andstrong.
Fitted with Steel Runners, Detachable Handles
and Heavy Bail. 3
cubic feet, 32/6; 5
feet, 35/; 7 feet,
, 37/6.
fsd
You can Save Time & Money
When you want Tools for any work by
getting acquainted with us. Ask for
Book of “Iron-Age” Garden Tools.
“Procrastination is the thief of time.”
Send now to
£|S-PKerson§)
Tool and Machinery Merchants,
544-66 and 582-88 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
Established
52 Y ear s
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE.
■
msmim
m ■
m
smu
:>3*i
r, j
NELSON ICELESS
SODA FOUNTAINS.
A Brick House costs
more than a Weather-
board —so do Nelson Soda
Fountains cost more than
the other kind, but the
Nelson is a veritable sky-
scraper of Quality.
Why is it American
Retailers opening busi-
ness in Australia prefer
the Nelson Soda Foun-
tain to all others? Simply
because they are educated
up to using the very finest
machines that money can
buy! The American Fountains are recognised as the best in the world
Nelson’s stock America’s best. Experts from America repeatedly say so, too.
It is to the' man of business-ambition that our Fountains appeal. Once
you pay for them your expense ends. How different to the weak, tawdry and
inferior kinds now abundantly afloat, whose one market-buoy is their cheap
price” ! And their costliness, the REPAIR BILL.
The Nelson Soda Fountains (like all Nelson productions) have withstood
the Test of time and Rebuffs of Keen Competition with flying colors. They are
the very acme of perfection, built to enlarge the retailer s profits and give the
retailer no trouble in the enlarging.
There’s a welcome nugget —a hidden treasure —in every Nelson Machine.
If you instal one NOW, to catch the golden trade of the next four or five
months, you will be raised on to a higher plane of profit-making, before
undreamed of.
Go into the matter with us—talk with us by letter—write for more vital
information.
Remember, too, when writing, that we carry Full Stocks of Refreshment
Room and Soda Fountain Supplies—so ask us to send Catalogue of these.
We can start you complete from £25.
Nelson s Carbonating Co. Ll
167 GEORGE STREET (Circular Quay), SYDNEY.
SEMENS
SQUIRREL-GAGE A.C. MOTORS.
Siemens Squirrel-Cage A.C. Motor gives a continuous,
efficient service. It will not overheat on long runs, and
even a 25% overload for two hours, or 100% momentarily,
will not affect it.
The bearings are of silicon bronze, lined with babbitt <
metal, and, in the larger sizes, of cast-iron lined with
babbitt metal. Ring lubrication is used, and the rings are
easily inspected. The end shields are bolted to circular
facings on the stator frame, and can be easily rotated to
render the motor, without further alteration, suitable for
fixing to wall, floor or ceiling.
Further details and prices are waiting for your enquiry.
Drop us a post-card at your first opportunity.
Siemens Bros. Dynamo Works, Ltd.,
42 Bridge Street, Sydney. 59-61 William Street, Melbourne.
New Zealand Agents—A. BT. BURT, LIMITED. Wellington. Auckland. Dunedin.
f
(I
Type
99


1 11 '1 11
r
T*AOE:
dsf
*22 Rim Fire Cartridges
SHORT. LONG. LONG RIFLE.
V No Corrosion.
Slight Pressure and High Velocity.
Uniformity Guaranteed.
Highest Grade of English Manufacture
Wholesale only—
Scottish House, 90 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
Kynoch House, 277 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY. ri
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
MEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
STOMACH TROUBLES.
Laxo-Tonic Pills are a most effective remedy for
Biliousness and all irregularities of the stomach and
bowels. They act quickly and effectually, without
weakening the system, as is the case with most medi-
cines used for these troubles. Price, l(Hd. and Is. 6d.
Obtainable everywhere.*
dsf
AUSTRALIANS!!
INSURE
IN
1.0. A.
THE
Fire, Marine, Accident, Live Stock.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
d
, EVERY BUSHMAN
Should have a copy of
this Book—lT’S FREE
It tells all about Emas-
culating Colts, Branding
and Earmarking Cattle,
Dehorning Calves, Spay-
ing Cows, about Prevent-
ing Pleuro, Mammitis,
and Blackleg, about Im-
pregnating Barren
Mares and Cows.
Teaches you Horse
Dentistry and other
useful knowledge.
This Valuable Book is
Posted FREE. Write
for your Copy NOW.
Free yv
CARL ZOELLER
246 Queen St.
Brisbane, Q.
Established 1896.
/'ZOELtCRS
Aeter/naryJ
SyCArALocutf
“E.A.T.”: Boomerang Flat is going
ahead, and there’s no two ways about it. They
have just formed a local branch of the Farmers’
Union. The first meeting was held at Bailup, the
residence of W. Thompson, Esq. —“old Thompson ’
unofficially. I went to that meeting. It was a
beautiful moonlight night, and the whiskered com-
munity had turned up in force. There were about
25 of them standing round the house in groups.
About half of them must have brought dogs, and
the dogs were playing underneath the house. Old
Thompson and one or two others were throwing
stones and firewood and profanity at them. This
went on for about 20 minutes, and at last some-
body scored a bull and the pack streaked out. I
think they finally fetched up against the wire netting
fence of the alleged orchard. Old Thompson couldn’t
think why people couldn’t leave their blank dogs
at home. Mrs. Thompson was round at the back
shouting “Charlie, have you fed them poddies?
Blast that boy, he’s never about when he’s wanted!”
I had met Charles earlier in the evening going
along the bank of the creek with his rifle. He was
“sick o’ milkin’,” and was “goin’ to chuck it and
go drovin’.” I visited the various groups to see
if anything startling was being done in agriculture.
The first were talking about poddies. I tried the
next. They were on to heifers. I passed again.
The third were discussing some automatic milking
machines that had just been put on the market.
Old ’Arry was saying, “What I want ter know is
what’s this ’ere ortermatick mean.” Nobody knew,
but someone ventured that it might mean ortermilk.
(Laughter.) As I was not dairying I did not try
the next group, but went and leaned on the fence
and ruminated on the greatness of the cream pro-
fession and supposed I was a fool for not milkin’.
A kindred spirit came over and joined me. He
spat at a patch of moonlight (I think he scored an
outer), said “Goo’night” and “Them old blanks
can’t talk of anything but cow—fair sickens yer, it
does.” Old Thompson then appeared on the veran-
dah and said, “Now, gents, we’re ready, if yous
are.” We all went into the front parlor and sat
mind the walls. The chairman and secretary had
the table. The chairman was a member of the
shire council, and they made him chairman, as a
matter of course, and he just loved himself. He
spoke for about a quarter of an hour, mostly about
cream. The secretary mumbled out some letter he
had received from some other secretary. Things
droned on. A heated discussion took place as to
whether the annual subscription should be 2s. 6d. or
7s. 6d. My kindred spirit, who was next to me,
whispered that whatever it was they. would have to
chloroform the speaker to get it. Anyhow, they put
it to the vote and the result was 2s. 6d. in a canter.
Time went on. I was nearly dead, and my bench
felt like a two-rail fence. They discussed at great
length the inevitable crossing over the river, which
was in the usual horrible state of repair. It ap-
peared that the matter was held up until the Coun-
cil’s representative had inspected. Old ’Arry got
up, and 11 others had their “yap.” It was about
2 a.m., so we then went home. I had troubled
dreams that night. I dreamt I was swimming for
my life in a lake of milk, pursued by serpents. There
is a pub going up at Boomerang Flat, and I shouldn’t
be surprised if they called it “The Skimmer’s Re-
treat.”
THE VENT.
JIM : “My word, Bill, ain't Sam a slave ter
fashion! He's gorn in fer a coat with a
split up the back."
“Sarto”: “Kodak” (B. 25/12/T3) refers
to the daring of a small bird, unknown to him, but
very much unlike the hen or the emu. Quite right.
It is neither of these canaries, but from all accounts
is what we outbackers of Strathfield, Booligal, etc.,
call the wren. In all probability, what “Kodak”
saw would be, not the nest, but the harem of the
blue-wren being attended to by a couple of his wives
(Mormon that he is) ; and if he wasn’t there himself
vou may depend upon it he (the bird, I mean, not
THE EDUCATIONAL
SPIRIT.
“Thos. Nelson and Sons,
London, Edinburgh and New
York.”— Imprint of books used
in Vic. State schools.
TEACHER McNAB (ex-
plaining): “Y' see,
mum, these Edinbro-'
preented books come out o' the box smeltin' that strong of whusky ”
“Kodak”) was away looking after another home. The
daring of this monster (I’m still talking about the
wren, and not about “Kodak”) takes the V.C. I
was gardening the other day under the supervision
of the baby in the pram and a family of wrens. The
latter, when they were not getting in the road of
the rake and hoe, were shouting at me to get a
move on and unearth more grubs for them. I had
occasion to lean the hoe against the pram. On going
for it again I found a wren perched on the handle
making eyes at the baby. Other times I have known
them to come right inside the house looking for such
dishes as flies, moths and other animals that we
don’t care for ourselves. If one suddenly remem-
bers an appointment it made in a bush on the other
side of the house, it doesn’t bother to go round, but
flutters right through, and thinks nothing of the
feat. When the Game Stakes are flown off, I’ll back
Mrs. Blue-Wren to get a place. The female, by-the-
bye, isn’t blue, but grey. Here let me compliment
“Kodak” and his friend on being “sports,” because
these little birds have a wonderful scent for hostility,
and clear on the first signs of it.
“Leo Lear”: “Oestan” (B. 18/12/T3) is
mystified to find a young storm-bird in a peewit’s
nest, because he thought only cuckoos placed their
little treasures in other people’s Well, his
mystery isn’t bottomless. The fact of the matter is
the so-called storm-bird —who can’t predict storms
worth a cuss —is a cuckoo, the channel-bill cuckoo.
He is of wandering habits, coming down
out of the Far North in the early spring.
Sometimes he leads his missus through
N.S.W. even unto Victoria, but more
often sticks to Bananaland. Channel-
bill is the largest of all the cuckoos, and
there are 14 of them in Australia. He
is about 2ft. long, with a big grooved
nose that would betray him in any com-
pany. There is some diversity of opinion
as to which is Australia’s sweetest-noted
bird, but when it comes to the harshest
the giant cuckoo would win from start
to finish. His loud, raucous screech
echoes over miles of Bananaland terri-
tory in the wet season. As he is usually
pursued by a young camel corps of crows
and butcher-birds, the atmosphere threat-
ens to split sideways with the medley of
vocal sounds. Not satisfied with day
screams, Channel-bill blasts the moon-
beams with harsh discord. I don’t
know what “Oestan’s” specimen was doing in
a peewit’s nest, as Mrs. C. B. usually trusts a crow,
magpie or sparrowhawk to poddy her calf. How-
ever, therq, is no accounting for cuckoos ; even Darwin
and other first-magnitude naturalists gave them best.
* * * *
“Alamon”: Re “A.G.’s” discovery (B.
13/11/’l3). While camped here on the Daly River
(N.T.) I struck an old gander of the wild-goose
species with a windpipe 4ft. 6in. long. It com-
pletely covered his breast, and was in six long coils.
I wanted to forward the thing to a museum, taking
it for a freak, but was informed by an old hand that
it was merely a male adornment, and the older the
bird the longer it was. I guess my bird must have
seen Captain Cook—he was as old as a Freetrade lie
and tough as a Fusion yarn. I believe this abnormal
length of windpipe belongs to the “trumpeter” of the
flock, and is never found in a female.
“Wallaby”: “Gil Gunnia” (B. 13/11/T3),
writing about Binghi graveyards, says our black
brothers of West Queensland have of late adopted
the method of their white brothers, and now bury
their dead underground. Up in the Northern Terri-
tory Binghi isn’t so sensitive, for around Darwin and
Daly River there is still occasional evidence of recent
tree burials. This forms part of ancient tribal cus-
tom, and even the influence of white (?) men can’t
break them of it. I know, as, riding through the
bush recently, I thought I detected dead buffalo, but
presently discovered the true cause—and fled in a
hurry.
‘H.S.”: The island of Malekula (New
Hebrides) is inhabited by 10,000 dark-brown, curly-
headed natives and a few planters and traders. The
Malekulans are a sturdy race, and have the reputa-
tion of being the greatest warriors in the group.
The mere report that a Malekulan canoe is approach-
ing is sufficient to scatter the inhabitants of one of
the smaller islands into the bush. As to dress, the
men wear little more than a girdle of cocoanut
cloth, while the women have a strip of matting or
calico a yard long and about nine inches deep; to
their scanty attire they add ornaments and paint.
The women are loaded with bead necklaces and the
men are decorated with armlets made of turtleshell,
bracelets of pigs’ tusks, flowers, plumes of feathers
and shell bracelets. Both sexes lay on the paint with
a liberal hand. For a bereavement the close rela-
tives blacken their faces all over, whilst other rela-
tives black half the face. For festivals, sing-songs
and dances more gaudy colors are employed, prefer-
ence being given to blue, green and red. The make-
up of an alleged comedian comprises black on the
right side of the forehead/red on the left; one cheek
white, the other black ; one ear picked out in green,
its vis-a-vis in brown ; a black streak down the nose,
with a blob of red at the end. The houses of these
people are miserable huts, generally about 6ft. high
and sloping down to the ground. They are built of split
bamboo and thatched roof, and are quite devoid of
furniture of any description, except a pile of cook-
ing stones and a dried cocoanut mat for sleeping on.
Boar tusks are suspended from the thatch, and some-
times a musket and a bow and arrows are visible.
The ridge pole is seldom more than five or six feet
from the ground, and when a fire is lighted the smoke
is stifling. The chiefs’ houses are larger and often
built of coral. The men live by themselves, and
each of their wives has a separate hut. Food is plenti-
ful. The people live principally on yams, tara and
bananas, which they cultivate, with breadfruit and
cocoanuts, which grow semi-wild in great profusion.
They also get a good supply of turtle, fish and shell-
fish, with an occasional pigeon or flying fox. On
great occasions a pig is slaughtered. The plentiful
supply of food does not tend to industrious habits.
Very little work is done, and that by the women.
The men spend most of their time fishing, hunting
wild pigs, talking and smoking. A system of caste
prevails. Women are not allowed to eat with the
men, nor the men of one rank with those of another.
In fact, they must not eat food prepared at the same
fire, nor even at a fire kindled with a brand from
the other. They’ve got lots of time for that sort
of joke.
“Grip” : Methinks that sheep-dog of “Felix
Holt’s (B. 25/12/’ 13) had a liver when he spread
himself ’neath a leafy bough whilst his master worked.
Here (Monaro, N.S.W.) sheep dogs seem to work for
sheer love of the game; but, of course, we never
register 116 deg. in the shade. Up on a fenceless
range the other day I came on a dog working a
small mob of sheep. From where I stood I could
see the fairly open country for miles around, and no
horseman was in sight. The dog was an old and
valued worker on the station, and, with wagging
tail, she was playing noiselessly with the obedient
mob, dividing it first into two lots and then into
three, never hurrying in any way unless a sheep
tried to break, when she streaked like a Cup winner
and returned it to the mob from which it had
escaped. For quite half an hour she padded quietly
round the woollies, never nipping nor emitting the
faintest sound. Enjoyment was written all over her.
Eventually, she gathered them together and drove
them slowly in the direction of the home paddocks.
I followed. She brought the mob carefully down
the side of the range and into a gully close to, but
out of sight of, the homestead. Then, gazing at
them regretfully, she scattered them with little, quick
runs and strolled lazily home, a picture of inno-
cence.
“Ding Bat”: It happened at a Maori
racing club’s meeting. Kihau could not weigh out.
However, a bag of' sand securely strapped to his back
brought him up to weight, and off he went, all
unconscious of Mahuri’s grin. They got away and
Kihau’s prad ran well until, at the straight, he drew
alongside the leader —Mahuri’s horse. Then he went
past Mahuri, but as he did so that guileless child of
nature slit a hole in Kihau’s extra weight and ran
into second place. By the time Kihau reached the
scales he had lost about 101 b. Of course he was
disqualified, and Mahuri got the race. But that’s
nothing to what he’d have got if Kihau had known
how the leak started.
ALL BEHIND.
AGENT: “ Well, did you get the rent?"
COLLECTOR : “Not in cash, sir."
“F.H.R.”: Black Joe, the shearers’ cook,
took himself so seriously after coming into affluence
per medium of a Tatt.’s sweep that he never smiled
again. He seemed to enjoy his good fortune in that
grim manner so often seen on the face of the bush
musician when grinding tunes out of his dearly-
beloved accordeon. Joe was corning down the main
street in Orange when an old acquaintance met him,
and, noticing his new gold watch and chain (the
chain was as loud as the watch), jocularly asked him
the time of day. Joe looked neither to the right nor
to the left. He pointed seriously down the street, re-
marking: “Town clock down there for poor folks.”
THE CHAUFFEUR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VICTORIA.
Bill Allen had at Swingletree
The smartest rouseabout on earth.
His name was Dan. In language free
Dan sought to advertise his worth.
For miles around on every one
He urged his merits old and new;
There little was he hadn’t done,
And nothing that he couldn’t do.
Then in a thumping motor-car
Some Sydneysiders called on Bill.
No motor yet had reached so far
Beyond the ridge of Skittle Hill,
And people walked from Sodaspree,
And Wattlebark and Cobblestone,
The wonderful machine to see
That went entirely on its own.
But Dan was out at Spartan Gap,
And when he came Bill Allen said :
“Bring out the strangers’ motor-trap—
They’re going up to Teddy’s Head.
“You know a motor-car?” said he.
Dan grinned and said: “Well, I should smile !
You leave the blanky thing to me;
I guess I’ll tote her out in style ! ”
A half-hour passed. With cracking whip
And usual bullock-driving din,
Dan brought the motor for their frip.
He’d harnessed six good bullocks in!
SILAS SNELL.


44
CHUNDER " TAKES A TRIP HOME. ARRIVAL AT ADELAIDE.
f,
1
, i
A
1 9
. f
JV
. 't i s
\ 1 - j i\. . <') n ) [; . (-./ .? -■/ Sj* // ! y ■ '* J; 5 -■> t * • V**' «
7/ xf» ' rv,~, j X/i l f) 1$:$!
1/ 7._ , '«•/ 1 V'.
ijll J4,|
A.- : y.A :>* liU$ :•; '
i
■ ?Ji-- i 'S HIU& n ' ip.'tt. **
’>£ / :i : i/M.r “
H i I,
M: ( <&?s/ V./ \7 : \
«■ •tas.ijr.j fayiA'/j rt, ?*•£.»
V A TO Fiji
. ffa ( v'/ Me- a *!.»;«,’ v
% • I Wit*
Dpt ?. tiff Wmli . f (!,■! a f
Wifi I sr
/I ,; w N*'
I Jv if-i ; > i t-/j re*\ ? --4 '.;
*- ! !
’ 'i_
cf; •• ■ / , -4 / ■*> I jy,.
rMymi
) ’ ./ 1 .. s ,
4 v ;; y i
<■ v t ■*.. -f ■•■ ? 1
.'- ■'. »vC
kZAfyyi
if! i u *
rft'fi )M**r'*- I \ ■,■ w y?
'V' , ’ v. t „ ¥ >i . '
J; : p\y far
r V?.. jC&F* r v
/f, fyymmm
>!.,/■»■ s j&’ Vv iy*/y~ ■ /■■> x
\\ iv ‘ /f ikrt VPi
A
m
3
'-J.
rd
nif
m ■■
sasa
f?
■J
s£*V3>-
a xpv V, -o
.17
*C
HP
M
/'—‘c i
>■
, V' <
v^/
V -
-v 'f~,-Sr'-
i( Si. 1
Jpyc
ySt
>S
IS
77.
M
. . ;
,7.
rf
V 7
-r? vS^\
- •.
r
/
2<^
L
££
iu-S
/Is
/
--T;
!&sW*>s
. »■’ dl. tv •
V-
C: C, 6 / K> .£> -
Cobra,” TSho. Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Sees the spires
Against the blue
In his Sunday
Best arrayed
He has come
To Adelaide.
Where the good
Churchgoers pace
To each sacred
M ppti n nr_nl a rn
Sunday boots must
Shine, tis clear ;
That is why
C A U. ~ A I,


: ; :
s.
i
sr 'Jm
Mm
Ta
©
IK ! W?
m \
wh.
/ ’
«S»
2%
a
E
I*l
I HAVE
■
RECEIVED A
SECOHD LIFE"
THETEnecsi.
.
Hundreds of thousands of people have derived
immeasurable benefits
From Sanatogen
Thousands of them have written to the proprietors
to say so. Their testimony records marvellous results,
which, until its discovery, could never have been obtained
by any means at the disposal of the physician.
Among the writers are many celebrities with whose
names
You will
be as familiar as with your own.
Tens of thousands of doctors throughout the world
have prescribed Sanatogen, which a medical authority,
writing in The Medical Press and Circular, states, “lias
strengthened the physician’s hand a hundredfold,” while,
he adds, “the wonders brought about by this prepara-
tion are no less ma'uifold than amazing.”
This is high praise for any preparation to
Receive
but it has been endorsed by innumerable statements.
Here, for instance, is one by that famous Authoress,
Madame Sarah Grand*: “ Sanatogen has done everything
for me which it is said to be able to do for cases of
nervous weakness and exhaustion. I began to take it
after nearly four years’ enforced idleness from extreme
weakness, and felt the benefit almost immediately. And
now, after taking it steadily three times a day for
twelve weeks, I find myself able to enjoy both work
and play again, and also able to do as much of both as I
ever did.”
To be so revitalised is, indeed, in Shakespeare s
words, to receive
A Second Life
Mk -;;v ■ , >.»> •_ /- y /
That experience may be duplicated by every reader
of these words, for Sanatogen so influences the nervous
and muscular systems, the digestion and the great blood-
making organs, that it restores the normal balance dis-
organised by illness or disease.
Sanatogen is sold by all Chemists, in tins, at 2s. 6d.,
3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d.
All int resting and instructive booklet, entitled
“ The Art of Living,” will be sent, post free, to all
wiio write, mentioning this paper, to A. Wulfing & Co.,
17, Bond Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Tiaki”: A Yankee advt. offered to send me post-
cards of rapid ladies which were guaranteed to in-
crease my heartbeats if I was human. Having some
unused , Uncle Sam stamps, I sent for the heart-
stimulators. My heart didn!t beat a cent’s-worth
extra; but there was a slip enclosed to the effect
that the next shipment would contain photos of ladies
of such speed that I would have to tether my heart,
sure. An unsophisticated friend of mine insisted on
taking up my running, and sent one “dallar.” The
almighty coin brought some more ladies. They may
have been swift, but, as that portion of their,anatomy
which might give one an indication of their paces
was hidden in a sort of cloud, no reliable opinion of
their rapidity could bb formed. The same old slip
was enclosed, guaranteeing to “pack secure from
observation” another lot, the very swiftest lot that
ever was ; but when ft came the M.L. post-office had
opened it and was not sufficiently disturbed in its
heart-beats to detain the lightning ladies. Perhaps,
to save my friend’s pocket, it had dropped the
promise of further swiftness into the waste-bin. Any-
how, there was no note enclosed with the third con-
signment on delivery.
* * *
“Hamer”: The Salv’army, in answer to a recent
charge that it is losing its spiritual punch, claimed
that it is a bigger concern than ever, and has its
organised institutions in almost every country on
the globe. Granted; and yet as a missionary force
the Army is very nearly dead. Time was, as most
Australians remember, when the Devil could almost
be seen cowering before it. The noise was terrific,
the glare stupendous ; and when the whole regiment,
from Lieutenant-Colonel downwards, flopped on to its
knees, the stunned onlookers could hardly restrain
themselves from flopping and being saved, too. Now-
adays the poor old force fails miserably to “move
the spirit.” Sometimes a few small boys or a casual
drunk follow; but generally it has lost its enthusiasm
for missionising, and with it its grip. It is mostly
now a colossal business organisation, making large
profits in various ways from the unpaid or slightly-
paid labor of the lost. H. G. Wells, in “When the
Sleeper Awakes,” depicts a gigantic Labor Trust, a
big organisation which in return for food, lodging,
clothes and a trifle of money, held the energies of a
tremendous number of workers in its hands ; and the
blaring institution of old seems to be drifting stead-
ily in that direction.
* * * *
“Te Babarantiko’s” snapshot of the place where
island phosphates make an aristocratic English co.
very rich: —
Chinese coolies are not the only dunderheads among
“cheap” laborers. Even the white overseer, as a
rule, becomes a dunderhead, too.
Imagine a hole, Bft. deep, between coral pinnacles.
A Kanaka on the bottom, with a long-handled shovel,
to scrape the phosphate and throw it up into a
barrow standing on a plank over the hole.
Another Kanaka on the shafts of the bar-
row to steady it. So small was the cir-
cumference of the hole that the shovel handle
had to be manoeuvred to give the necessary
impetus to the stuff. How often the underneath
Kanaka missed the barrow and how long he took to
fill it can be imagined, too. This system had been
in vogue for years, with a white overseer standing
over the nigger, and frequently a manager standing
over the overseer. Then a new man arrived who
got a few fathoms of 14-inch rope, tied a light
Japanese bamboo handbasket (of which thousands
are available) to a few feet of the cord, and had
the stuff hauled up by the nigger on the barrow.
The Kanakas took very kindly to the idea. Though
the man on top didn’t object to his wait on the
barrow, he knew his turn would come to perform
in the hole, and he no more relished shooting manure
at himself via a wheelbarrow than anybody else.
When a five-ton pinnacle toppled over and pinned
two native laborers beneath, the overseer acted
promptly and in the most correct official manner.
He sent to the settlement for help. When the help
arrived with screwjacks, iron crowbars atid the doc-
tor, he placed the jack in position and screwed till
the men implored him to stop—lie was pressing the
rock down on them. Just then one who knew arrived.
Next minute he had a plank balanced on a chunk of
wood for leverage, and in a minute the men were
lifted out. The men were pinned under the rock
for 40min., with scores of long, stout, wheeling
planks available for levers lying all over the place.
At the very most, three minutes should have seen
them liberated. . , ~ . . ,
Their friends, by the way, the injured
men to the hospital, cheering them a la Kanaka.
“He will die,” said one. “Yes, you are right; he
will surelv die,” said another. “Yes, indeed, they
will both "die,” from a third, enlivened by someone
mimicking their facial expressions and cries for
assistance while under the rock at which they all
screamed with delight. But the men didn’t die. One
escaped with the loss of a couple of toes, the other
with some internal injuries.
“Wallaby” : “Mil” (8.. 6/H/’l3), talking of pearl
and trepang fishing, says the North isn’t scratched.
Rubbish! Between Darwin and Thursday Island
there is hardly a square inch of the coral reefs where
pearlshell and trepang abound that hasn’t been wan-
dered over by employees of the white cos., and they
are still at it. Moreover, brother Binghi is em-
ployed at the job to only a small extent, the crews
and divers being made up mostly of Malays ( and
Macassar boys, who are experts in this line. “Mil”
talks of tlje., gaud-y prospects of the Torres Syndi-
cate; but old traders who have been at the game for
years are now getting only a fair thing out of it,
principally by pearlshell trading and trepang, as the
art of. lobbing on to wonderful pearls seems to be a
thing of the past.
The Gilbey firm, which annually surveys the year’s
vintage for London Times, mentions, in the course of
the 1913 article, that the growth of the British
consumption of Australian wines is “the brightest
spot in the wine trade.” “In the aggregate,’ the
Gilbeys say, “the new [Australian] wines showed a
distinct improvement upon those of the previous
year”; and of the Hunter River goods they make
the cheerful and encouraging remark that the
quality is most excellent.”
* * * *
Claimed in S. Aus. that James Darley, of Narridy,
has again put up the record for filling and sewing
wheatbags. He used to hold it with a mere 327 bags
in a day, but for a year Gordon Dunsford s 420
topped that. Now Darley has gone top again with
440. He sewed at the rate of 40 an hour, averaged
17 stitches per bag, received a penny each, had
three meals, and knocked off at 6.45.
* * * *
“M.S.R.”: The Bulletin cannot say anything
too lurid about the wine supplied in the Victorian
Mallee. I have been in the place where these
“pinky” shops exist, and can assert that the liquor
is of the most maddening description. One. drink
of the villainous stuff makes a man maudlin; on
two he’ll fight with his own shadow; on three he’s
a fit subject for Yarra Bend. What the Mallee needs
is good, well-conducted, well-regulated pubs, and
not too few of them. I have been right through the
country from east to west, and can assure the water-
waggon people that if they had to rough it in wine
hells as I have done they would turn their attention
from pubs to pinky dens.
* * * *
Nothing is too 6mall to be overlooked by a Trust
of the Yankee breed which has just pushed its nose
into Australia. Last summer the hens in the State
of New Jersey threatened to glut the New York
markets with eggs, and bring down the price of the
fruit with a rush. Then a Trust got busy. Its
agents descended' on New Jersey, and bought up the
eggs as fast as they were laid. Did they give the
public the benefit of the increased supply? Not
much! They smashed the “surplus” on the next
vacant allotment, till the place was literally dripping
with custard. The New Yorkers paid the cost of the
excellent joke. Was ever such a case of Love’s labor
lost ?
“Yamba”: Paspalum is rapidly becoming friendless
on the N.S.W. North Cowst, where Cocky, by his greedy
way of stocking up to the last blade, has set for
himself a problem which will shortly have him
howling abjectly, lie must re-grass his land, as the
paspalum is steadily matting, and, while becoming
useless for fodder, has the dog-in-the-manger faculty
of rendering the growth of any other grass impossi-
ble. On the rivers, more particularly the Richmond,
there is no spare country for the stock while the
curse is being rooted out prior to regrassing, with
no standby pickings for Strawberry, there will be no
butter cheque, and Cocky will probably bellow _ foi
Government aid while he wallops his 3«ss.
By the way, Ido not agree with “Cams Marius (B.
4/12/’l3) as to Rhodes grass not doing well in
heavy black soil. In 1909 I saw a plot of it at the
Moree Bore farm; it was in strong, heavy, mgger
ground, and showed a splendid growth in spite ot
having been planted much too thickly. #
“US”: While we proceed with our Westralian
railroad, glance at the largest enterprise of the kind
in progress. This is the Canadian Grand Trunk,
from Atlantic to Pacific, 3500 miles, stretching far
north of the Canada-Pacific route. The constructive
genius is C. M. Hays, who first shone in pulling the
U.S. Wabash line out of the financial mire. the
Canadian Trunk having been pushed on to the col-
ossal enterprise of a new Transcontinental, capital
was easily raised in London, though the Canadian
Government itself preferred to construct the line
from Moncton to Winnipeg, 1800 miles, leaving the
co. to make it from Winnipeg to the Pacific, 1700 miles.
The Pacific terminus is fixed at Prince Rupert, a
newly-created town, destined, some think, to be a
great city, far north of Vancouver. The 3500 miles
abound in natural difficulties. Most of the route was
entirely unknown, save to the Indian and trapper;
but it opens up 300 million acres for wheat. Public
confidence is behind the vast enterprise, which I
judge to be the most popular ever undertaken m
Canada.
GOLD IN SIBERIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A new goldfield has been discovered in Siberia.
Huge nuggets have been found in widely-separated
alluvial diggings, including the Yenesi, the Maritime
Province and Kamsehatka. — Cable.
There’s dead men at “Siberia,” out on the Menzies-
road,
And ere they died they hunted rainbow-gold,
With new hope for their whip and spur, and youth’s
swift, singing blood,
And death aye out quickest for the overbold for good.
Oh! the old Goongarrie track,
The strong men and the young men, and the men
who gold did lack,
Went prospecting to “Siberia,” and not all of them
came back.
There is heat of Hell and burning sand upon the
Ninety-Mile,
And bone-dry waterbags to mock their drouth;
But they buckle up their waistbelts yet another hole
and smile,
And the desiccated desert ’tween their teeth gnaws
like a file,
And their meat is but as ashes in the mouth
Where Siberia holds death
For the young man and the strong man and the
fool who questioneth
All horizons for a new one, till the drouth has
stopped his breath.
There is gold in cold Siberia and up the Yenesi,
And Kamsehatka may be rich enough to hurt;
Yet better old “Siberia,” where but of heat men
die,
And better half an ounce and sunlight up at Tanami,
Or a Central rush and eighty-shilling dirt.
And the old “Siberia” track,
In its dryness and its hardness holds the youth that
now we lack—
The youth we’d gladly search for, with no chance
of coming back.
VICTORIA.
RANDOLPH.
SAVED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
That the price of a pint of beer should be more
than 3d. has never entered the heads of most beer
drinkers. Yet an increase in price is by no means
improbable.— Melb. Age.
In the blinding heat of summer,
When each sunray seemed to sear,
Meekly fingering a thrummer
At the swinging doors of beer,
Stood a scared, perspiring bummer,
And he muttered hoarsely, “ ’Ere!”
“’Arf a minute, mate!” he pleaded,
Nodding sideways at the door,
And I doubtfully acceded,
For I thought he might implore
Further cash for what he needed
From my somewhat shrunken store.
“’As it gorn up, lad?” he mumbled.
“ ’Ave they riz th’ prices yet ?”
Like a man by sorrow humbled
He shed tears and beads of sweat,
And the disc of silver fumbled
With his trembling hands and wet.
“No, not yet—they’re merely talking;
But they say it’s far too cheap,
And”—the “beat,” no longer baulking,
At the swing-doors made a leap,
And arrived, amidst uncorking,
In a thirsty, sobbing heap.
N.S.W.
DRY SUMMER.
JOY TO THE DRAPER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
General prosperity, caused by timely and ample
spring rains, relaxed a previously tight money
market and gave the people plenty to spend. For
these reasons city drapers admit that within the
past two weeks their output has probably passed
former records. —Daily paper.
When chiffons are selling and corsets likewise,
And the drapers in muslin are up to their eyes;
When the clear call of “Saign, please!” resounds in
each shop,
And frock-coated viscounts are kept on the hop,
There is joy in the place where the wholesalers
whole;
Everybody is glad,
Save the householder mad,
Who, sunk in the suburbs, keeps cursing his soul.
When the pastures were dry and the landscape was
brown,
There was little to do at the counters in town;
But the minute the rains came, like veiling or cr6pe,
In wraps of grey moisture the hilltops to drape,
And the clouds trailed like fluff through the trees
on the mount,
All the drapers arose
In immaculate clothes,
And feverishly started their winnings to count.
Now the rain that came down on the imbecile sheep
May move all the squatters and drapers to leap,
And the overjoyed butcher may sing as he chops,
For it hurries up trade in all manner of shops;
But the growling suburban who gets not a sou
If it rains for a year,
Reads the news with a sneer,
For he knows that his missus is spending it, too.
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


i'lKH^4- r Z
f/ip
lIW
%
\?i// \vs
ATLAS
oM
A
p
EMPLOY neither too much nor too little chalk to lubricate inner tubes.
■ V
p ' .
I REQUENTLY verify the pressure with the Michelin Pressure Tester.
Get the Michelin Waterproof Wrapper for covers and the Michelin
Waterproof Bag for inner tubes. Spares should never be carried ,
without these means of protection, against friction, sun and rain,
Michelin Tyres and Accessories can be
obtained from all the leading Garages.
A.N.Z 21.
Note the following
points
A. VOID the causes of tyre de*
terioration —abrupt starts,
sharp turnings, and sudden
applications of the brake.
Be careful not to run on shaky
or non-parallel wheels.
CIOSE the small cuts in
covers with Michelin Mastic.
DrESS the leather of the
“Semelle 4 ’ non-skid with
Michelin Skidcreme.
THE LONE HAND” for Good Stories and Bright Articles. Price 6d
IMPORTANT TO FARMERS.
Reports in the daily papers indicate heaps of trouble from a comparatively new quarter, viz.,
THE RURAL WORKERS. Providing you have several stalwart sons to assist in the farming
operations you have little to fear, but to those not so fortunate we say :
3. 823
N. 1345
The MARSHALL OIL TRACTOR
Is positively the Farmers and Squatters’ best friend, as it does the work
of from 16 to 32 Farm Horses, with a minimum of expense and labor.
Bear in mind this Engine costs “ nothing to feed” when it's not working .
it runs equally as well on Kerosene as Benzine .
it can be used in the Harvest Field without the slightest danger of Fire .
HUNDREDS OF OTHER GOOD REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD HAVE ONE,
WRITE FOR FURTHER PARTICULARS,
GASH or EASY TERMS.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. LTD.
The Engineers’ Depot, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Where the Best Engines are Sold (not Kept in Stock).


20/-
25 1-
Lady’s Solid Silver Open-
face, Keyless WATCH, full
jewelled, timed and ad-
justed, 20/-. Higher
Grade, 25/-
15ct. Gold NECKLACE,
set Diamonds and Pink or
Green Tourmalines, Aqua-
marines, Rubies or Peri-
dots, £lO/10/-
15et. Gold and Platinoid BROOCH
set Diamonds and
Tourmaline or Aquamarine, £5/ 10/-
CATALOGUE
FREE.
Lady’s 9ct. Gold, Patent Expanding
BRACELET, full jewelled Lever
£5. 15ct. Gold, £B/10/
f WATCH
movement,
9et. Gold BROOCH, set Amethyst, 15/-
POSTAGE
FREE.
18ct. Gold, set
3 Diamonds,
£lO.
AUNDERS’
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER
New Year’s Gifts.
Such a delightful selection of new designs we are show-
ing for the New Year—such an attractive display, flany
of them are shown in our Gift Book, a copy of which is
yours for the asking. And
WE PAY POSTAGE
on all orders.
9ct. Gold SIGNET
RING, 17/6.
15ct. Gold, 35/-
9ct. GoliJ LINKS, any
initials, 20/-
15ct. Gold, 40/“
9ct. Gold PENDANT,
set Pearls and Ame-
thysts or Garnets,
22/6.
12/6
15/-
Set. Gold URound Plain BUCKLE BRACELET, 50/'
15ct. Gold, £4/10/-
Gent.'s Nickel, Non-Magnetic Keyless
LEVER.
9et. Gold, set
Pearls & Ame-
thysts or Gar-
nets, 20/-
Set. Gold LOCKET,
richly engraved,
25/-
9ct. Gold, set
Pearls and Ame
thysts or Red
Stones, 22/6.
18ct. Gold All Dia
mond Cluster,
£7/10/-
9ct. Gold LINKS,
nicely engraved, 20/-
15ct. Gold, 35/-
18ct. Gold, set
6 Diamonds,
£5.
251-
50|-
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunt-
ing Keyless WATCH, f-
Plate, full jewelled, patent
adjusted balance, 25/-
Extra jewelled, 30/-,
40/-
TRY US ONCE
WITH AN ORDER.
«
Silver Gilt Enamel PEN-
DANT, set Amethyst,
12/6.
9ct. Gold -Round BRACELET, plain or chased; Safety
Chain attached, 50/-. 15ct. Gold, £4/10/-
807-814 GEORGE STREET (Opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
s
.Absolutely IMPossible
to beat
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES.
10
6d.
Plain, Gold or Corß Tipped.
20
II-
Sofle Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO., LTD., LONDON.


LEIGH’S HAIR DYE
S-C-aES
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/1t
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE.
Established 1891.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all case*
of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after suffering
over 40 years.
Made and sold bv ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
PRICE 31- PER BOX, or a COURSE
of 8 BOXES £l, Post Free.
On Sale at all Druggists, Chemists and Store-
keepers throughout the States.
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
L Over 70 years * success. J
■N
STEWART DAWSON’S
Save you 10 to 15 per cent,
on Diamond Jewellery.
We buy Diamonds from the Actual Gutters and save all
intermediate profits. Our purchases for our numerous estab-
lishments mean that we receive the benefits of large dealings.
These we hand on to you in our FIRST-COST PRICES.
.
AS**
fy
■
V'
6V*
&
~x\\ V
xV'
We pay the Postage to any address. Write for Illustrated
Catalogue.
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIA : Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON: 19 to 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.; and 73 to 81 Regent Street, W
I.ya/G.
n
Make Your Own
Records
Secure an Edison Home Record-Making Outfit,
and you will be able to get a clear, lifelike
record of the voice or music of yourself and
your friends. The Outfit comprises a new
Edison 4-minute Recorder, 3 Blank Records,
each one of which can be shaved from 50 to
75 times before being discarded, and an
Edison Home Shaving Machine, by means of
which the blank can be given a new surface
after a Record has been made.
The price of this Outfit, complete, in Aus-
tralia is £2, in New Zealand £2 12s. 6d.
Full instructions for its use are included in a
booklet obtainable. of any Edison dealer, or
direct from us. You should go to-day to your
dealer and have him demonstrate this home
record-making feature of the Edison Phono-
graph to you.
THOMAS A. EDISON
(Wholesale only),
Dept. 8., 364=372 Kent Street, Sydney.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF ?
VOU begin to
1 look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
fsd
Lockyer's
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
LETTERS COPIED
WHILE WRITING
(IN INK)
fsd
f
by using your own Letter
Paper, Invoices, etc., with this
Copying book. You simply in-
’sert your Letter paper (as
illustrated) then write: and
the act of writing produces a
perfect letter and a perfect
copy in the book. There is no sign of your having
taiven a copy; no perforated edge.
Book N.S.C./200 copies either 200 letters size 10
by 8 in., or 400 size 8 by 5, price 3/9: or Book
N.S.C./400 copies 400 or 800 respectively, price o/-
post free, cash with order. Special Dainty Octavo
Book, making 200 copies, for 3/- P. 0., or double
capacity for 4/3. Sample of the wonderful Zan-
etic Ink Paper, which makes the copy, free, if
stamped, addressed envelope sent to
S. B. ZANETIC, Welford Rd., LEICESTER, ENGLAND
\
A:
IJ
M
\
K '-m
'k
m B -
UK
m..
It -
, * - . ■■ s; - # *m ;
.
- . . • ■ .• • ■ ■.■
ii
mgs
' ' ■.
mm
If
1
■
«
11 §
R
e
[Si
■ ' ■ ;■ • • ,
Alt
■
u
m
M
-
9M
'
mmm.


aron
In Flat Tins:
Turkish or
Virginian,
F ragrant CIGARETTES.
The better judge of fine Tobacco that you
are, the more certainly will you appreciate
the goodness of SARONY CIGARETTES.
Manufactured by NICOLAS SARONY 8 CO., New Bond Street,-London, W.
DRINK
DANIEL CRAWFORDS
SCOTCH WHISKY.
THE PUREST
AND BEST
IN THE LAND.
As Supplied to
the P. & 0. and OTHER LARGE SHIPPING COS.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The hint that the next N.S.W. Railway
Commissioner won’t have anything like the
lavish powers enjoyed by Johnson raises a
suspicion that the new man may be an Aus-
tralian, by birth or training, or both.
Goodchap, in older days, led a miserable,
precarious existence with every separate
member of Parliament for his separate boss.
Then the freshly imported Eddy was given
almost autocratic powers and a heap of
money to play with, and had a chance to do
things. Oliver followed, and as he was only
a local man his authority as Chief Commis-
sioner was reduced to something purely
nominal. The imported Johnson came next
as something very like a despot. Now the
next man, it seems, is to be little more than
a shadow, and if the unsatisfactory job isn t
given to an Australian it will be contrary to
precedent.
DECIDING THE MENU .
Mr. Cook said that if Captain Cook had discovered
Australia it was Brother Cook who was looking after
Australia just now. By the time he was finished,
Australia would be well cooked, and he trusted the
viands would be enjoyable.
—Joe Cook, at a Masonic shivoo.
JOE THE CHEF: “Now, sir, how would you
like him done?”
N.S.W. State Premier Holman: —
He hoped soon to be in a position to announce a
remodelling of the finances, the intention being to
adopt a forward financial policy on thoroughly sound
and nationally developmental and remunerative lines.
The N.S.W. finances have been remodelled
very often, and they have assumed almost
every shape in the world except square. If
Holman would leave off his huge, vague ex-
pressions, and say simply and plainly how
he is going to make the (one syllable) two
(one syllable) ends (also a single syllable)
meet (ditto), it would be a lot better than
all this “developmental” (five syllables)
and “remunerative”. (another five syllables).
“Locust’s” reflections on some recent
failures: —
The ecclesiastics who have recently butted into
worldly affairs have been disastrous failures at a
business they don’t understand. Thus an obscure
melodrama was boosted into an unmerited success
all over Australia through a prelatial ban ; while a
political party whose destruction was aimed at has
had almost as startling a success as the melodrama,
the result partly of the ecclesiastical campaign
directed against its leader. The doomed leader’s
majority in his own electorate went with a rush
from about 250 to 700 odd, and his majority in
Parliament from an average of one and a half (which
occasionally fell over the banisters of Parliament
House) to 11. Ecclesiastical butting-in in politics
is always bad, and it might profit the clerics who
are inclined that way to remember that in France
and Spain it has led to reprisals from politicians,
such as the French Associations Law. By nature of
their calling, priests and parsons are unworldly men,
and when they splash into politics they are generally
prompted by some cunning wirepuller who has an axe
of his own to grind. The better the prelate the
worse politician he makes.
THE THROWERS OUT
Speaking at the citizens’ banquet to Mr. George
Reid at Bathurst yesterday, Mr. F. Jago Smith,
M L.C., said it is not our business to construct legis-
lation for the Ministry of the day ; we simply throw
it out.
Australia : “ Birds of a feather —though they
don't look like it."
Christmas, 1913, saw the first commercial-
ised interchange of the season’s greetings
by wireless across the Tasman Sea.
M.L. Government advertised freely that
thq recently-opened high-power stations
were prepared to flash special greet-
ings from anyone in Maoriland to any
reasonable address in Australia for a
straight-out fee of 4s. The novelty tempted
a lot of otherwise thrifty folk; and another
“permanent and reproductive undertaking,”
into which a lot of hard-borrowed money his
been put, took another step towards the
scrap-heap. But the lOU didn’t move an
inch.
The official N.S.W. Labor trumpeter has
a hard part to play these times. So we find
the Worker telling the beautiful truth on
one side of the page, and on the other side
making excuses for throwing the
beautiful truth overboard. Page
13 shows Posterity humping a
vast sack branded “Loan Expendi-
ture on Roads, Bridges, Railways,
etc.,” while the land monopolist
exclaims: “This arrangement is
splendid—the Government sows
the seed, I harvest the crop, and
Posterity shoulders the expense.”
And page 12 chortles over the
“success” of the last loan, claims
that “the sound developmental
policy of the Government is prov-
ing attractive abroad,” and adds
that “borrowing is essential if the country is
to move ahead.” Evidently, according to
the Gospel on page 13, the country is mov-
ing ahead when posterity is saddled with
an extra burden in order to make Fat fatter.
“Croson” writes :
In effect, the re-election contest of Willie AVatt’s
new Minister of Agriculture, Hutchinson, became a
sort of strike of unibnists against free-laborite. Hut-
chinson, a decent sort of nonentity and a good
“country representative,” had been chosen as a
Liberal Minister. He was a sound “party” man,
wholly unobjectionable but insignificant. As an
artisan he would be a unionist, doing a fair day’s
work, but not rising out of the ruck. But, selected
for a slightly better job, a reprehensible free-worker
comes along and tries to bump him out of the
billet. That was practically the view Watt and
c,o. took of the candidature of Hutchinson’s only
opponent—a local Liberal named Farquhar Mcßae.
There was no Laborite to gain by the split vote, and
1 if Hutchinson possessed any influence or mana he
need not have feared an untried and unknown man.
Yet the “party” Liberals were very wroth with
Mcßae. He wasn’t “selected,” and though fully
qualified to represent his fellows, he had apparently
no right to thus annoy poor “Hutch.” It was very
sad, and showed exactly what Liberals think of the
man who interferes with preference to unionists
when the “union” happens to be their own political
party.
Sydney Telegraph had a frisky moment
last Friday, and leaping wildly in the air, it
wrote an article on “The Need for Deeper
Harbors.” The need for them! Well,
haven’t we got them? Don’t we own Port
Stephens and Jervis Bay and Westernport
and Portland and Gladstone and Port Dar-
win and any number beside? It is danger-
ous to go out at night in this country lest
one should fall into a deeper harbor, the
same being unlighted because the Telegraph
or some such paper doesn’t want the trade
monopoly of its own town interfered with.
There was some plain speaking at a meet-
ing of landlords of Carlton (Vic.), called to
protest against the movement for the aboli-
tion of slums. “We have the land,” said
the chairman; “we are the masters. If a
man puts up for the Council we efin put
him in or out.” Incidentally, it was men-
tioned that the laws for the abolition of
slum property were infamous; they were
Russian, too, also Draconian and abomin-
able. A league of landlords was formed, and
it is understood that any candidate for Par-
liament or council who is anti-slum will be
fallen on by Carlton Property to such an
extent that it will be left for posterity to
recover his bones. It cannot be too widely
understood that man’s right to live is cir-
cumscribed by the landlord’s right to dic-
tate where he will live, and how.
A LOAN IN LONDON.
TIGHT MONEY.
THE N.S.AV. LOAN.
•London, Jan. 7.
The Daily Mail expresses the opinion that the
poor response to the New South Wales loan indi-
cates that acute congestion still exists in the new
issue market. Of five, issues aggregating £11,000,000
in the past month, it says, the public has subscribed
only £2,640,000. —Press cable.
The N.S.W. Labor party is just now
looking round with an anxious eye. It is
wondering where the devil ■ to get new
M’s.L.C., who, having once been appointed,
can be relied upon to vote for the abolition
of the Council and themselves when asked.
In brief, its requirement is a batch of reli-
able political suicides. The absolutely trust-
worthy felo-de-se subject is none too com-
mon these degenerate times.
MORE MIXTURES.
Every Sabbath morning crowds of young men and
women parade the beaches together in a semi-nude
condition. We have not only “mixed bathing, but
“mixed camping.” —The Rev. Milne (Melbourne).
THE MIXED ONE: “Very good shermon las'
Shunday (hie), but warra-bout puttin' in
a word for (hie) mixed drinksh?"
“Light Horse” writes -
On Boxing night some 60 soldier-boys gaily lef:
Broken Hill for the 350-mile-distant camp of Brigh-
ton (S.A.). They were told on leaving the Hill that
they would be away drilling for 12 or 16 days;
also that when their work was finished they would
be paid in full for the half-year. On the eighth
day they were dismissed and the camp broken up;
and because something had not been signed by some-
body there was no money forthcoming. A return
ticket from Brighton to Adelaide, and another one
from Adelaide to Broken Hill, was handed to the
youths, and they were turned adrift at noon on
Saturday to wait for the Broken Hill express, which
left at 7 p.m. on Sunday. Many of the boys were
absolutely penniless, so those who were also friend-
less slept in the park on Saturday, and went with-
out food until they reached their homes at 8.30 on
Monday morning. Was this Gilbertian act done to
give them a taste of real soldiering, or what—
especially what?
“0.1 v.” presents his view of the case: —
Seems to me that Willie Watt's unfortunate
Redistribution of Seats Bill, if regarded from a non-
party point of view, would appear a patriotic pro-
position. Which is not to say that I think Watt s
mental view could possibly be a non-party one, or
that any act of politics, under present political condi-
tions, can be dissociated from party principles.
Watt's hopeless Bill would increase the proportion
of a country man’s voting power in Victoria to about
twice as much as a townsman’s. Seeing that the
average agriculturist is a conservative person, as
compared with the average town worker, an angry
Liberal-Laborite naturally objects to any increase
of a power which is already disproportionately strong
in Party results. The proposal of Watt, the Lib-
eral” Premier, was meat to Conservatism and poison
to Labor, under the existing system of government.
<VII the same, the objection to it seems absurdly in-
consistent with the all-round demands for develop-
ment of the country, decentralisation, closer settle-
ment, etc. If Melbourne is overcrowded and Gipps-
land needs population, it may be fairly argued that
Gippsland’s claims to paternal government deserve
more powerful advocacy in Parliament, whereas the
wants of Fitzroy, Essendon, St. Kilda and other town
electorates are already fully supplied. The develop-
ment of this rich country has been going slow all
these years because its government is mainlv in the
hands of masses of people who know least about the
land, and are unable to realise the possibilities ot
democratic advancement which closer settlement would
offer. Conservatism vegetates in the agricultural
and pastoral districts because of the insufficiency of
workers therein. Narrow-minded critics will say tha.
Victoria cannot hope to. advance m democracy b>
creating new representatives of vegetating Conser-
vatism, as proposed by the Redistribution of Seats
Bill The answer is easy. A predominant country
party would ensure an immensely increased expendi-
ture of public money in the sparsely-populated dis-
tricts; expenditure must bring people along, and
where population increases, Conservatism soon loses
its punch Under an Elective Ministry system, coun-
try interests, in a broad way of speaking, would
undoubtedly get more consideration than they get
under Party Government. Meanwhile, .he interests
of patriotism would be best served by strengthening
the representation of up-country districts in Parlia
mpnt As things go in politics at present, any
“ant old Tfry who schemes for a Government
grant to the backblocks is more useful to the com-
munity than an earnest town-bred Laborite who
brandishes the torch of trades-unionism at a meeting
of unionists even as a temperance orator waves his
banner before a crowd 1 of teetotallers. Let the arro-
gant old Tory serve his turn, if it be the country s
turn also. Providence will see that he does more
good than harm.
THE ORATOR: A PROTEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Here in Australia the late AYilliam Shiels was
the last politician who esssayed the role of the ornate
orator.... Since votes are not to be gained by the
highest reaches of persuasive eloquence, the Parlia-
mentarian feels that brilliant oratory in an Aus-
tralian House would be wasting sweetness on the
desert air.— Age (3/1 /’l4).
But Joseph is an orator !
Remark his language, fine and free,
His piercing snarl, his splendid roar,
His slashing wit in repartee,
His utter keenness and resource, f
His rugged, rorty metaphor!
AVhatever he may be, of course,
Joe is at least an orator !
Ah, when he plays upon the chords
Of mcm’ry, in swift, sparkling speech,
Like some far nuisance sawing boards,
AYhat is it moves the Reps, to screech?
AYhen Joseph rises up to speak
His mind and, storming, holds the floor,
AYhat is it makes the members shriek
If Joseph is no orator?
AYhen, merry or morose, he leaps
Into the breach at need, to bid
Dissension cease forthwith, and keeps
Repeating “Rats!” or “Tripe!” or “Kid!”
Or counters with, “Oh, silly rot /”
Or some bright phrase not used before,
Each short, sharp, stinging slap or shot
Brands Joseph as an orator!
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.
MARTYRS AT THE STEAK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It can be said without hesitation that the Austra-
lians are of all people the most pronounced meat
eaters. The average daily consumption of meat per
head of the population, children included, is three-
quarters of a pound, so that orih can correctly speak
of an uneconomic over-nourishment of the people, and
one has the opportunity of actually demonstrating
that a caused connection exists between the extraor-
dinary good economic conditions which exist there and
the low birth-rate. The most striking proof is here
furnished of the law which is almost without excep-
tion that with an increased consumption of food
fecundity diminishes. —German scientist.
AYe know now where the mischief lies,
And why Australian babes are few:
The evil’s due to pigeon pies,
And shin of beef, and steak, and stew.
Has Jones no children of his own,
And Smith but one? The reason’s plain—
They gnaw too close the mutton bone,
And both despise the fruitful grain.
AYe turn from porridge, and we eat
Three-quarters of a pound of meat.
AYhere prowls the lean barbarian
To hunt tor nuts or dig a yam,
There’s no diminishing the clan;
But, give the savage cheese and ham,
And note the birthrate’s rapid fall.
This law of nature’s queer, if true:
The babies will not come at all
Unless the chance is five to two
That ere they’re set upon their feet
They’ll die of woeful lack of meat.
Down with the chop ! Race suicide
And all the sins the word implies
Are with the smallgoods trade allied,
And starving folks alone are wise.
The measures taken all are wrong ;
If we would stop the pending woe
AVe’ll take our butchers, short and long
And hang the wretches in a row.
For only where there is no meat
Can there be many folks to eat.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


THE GLORIOUS RONISCH.
Paling's for
Everything
Musical.
Superb Tone and Touch,
Solid Construction and
Durability.
Paling's Easy
Terms will
help you.
dsf
And at
Newcastle
Lismore
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Brisbane
Toowoomba.
THE REPUTATION of the
Genuine CARL R O NIS C H
PIANO assures you a high-
grade instrument —a piano that
will meet the highest musical
requirements. A positive delight
to the artist, musician, student or
music-lover. If you are desirous
of obtaining a perfect piano,
then you should certainly call
at PALING'S (or write for par-
ticulars) and begin the New Year
well with a RONISCH PIANO.
c,
, 1 ' 'v V— :
v r
■
a
Write to Dept*
“C”for Catalogue*
It is post free.
GRAND and
UPRIGHT Models, also the
Famous Ronisch-Olawiola Player-Piano.
Your Old Piano
Exchanged a t
its Full Value*
THE BEST PIANO FOR YOUR FAMILY.
m
t. m
=s&=
Win BRING YOU A
SPIT -TAILORED
Just AS YOP WANT IT
Guaranteed to a Buttonhole,
FIFTY-TWO and Six is the Leviathan
mail-order special price for the
utmost in tailoring —for a suit as
good as a suit can be made by the best
cutters and tailors, and the use of the
finest fabrics, linings, trimmings, etc.
Insuring you against the risk of dis-
appointment is the Leviathan Guarantee,
which states that the finished suit must
be just as you want it, or you simply
don't pay.
Suits to Order, 5216
(Mail Order Special).
Send the Coupon for patterns and measurement
forms. Write on the dotted line please.
THE LEVIATHAN,
Corner of Swanston and Bourke Streets,
MELBOURNE.
We Pay Freight on
all Orders to any address in
Australia.
Our Catalogue is Post
Free. Get a copy.
THE LEVIATHAN,
c/o Swanston and Bourke .Streets,
Melb.
Please send me a Pattern Selection
of your new Suitings at 52/6. This
request incurs no obligation.
Name
Address
15/1/’l4, BVn.
I
HERE IS A CAMERA
FOR ALL THE YEAR ROUND.
The Folding Victor-Klito ook
WITH ENSIQN ANASTIGMAT LENS.
£2/12/6.
THIS is a thoroughly well made and beautifully-finished
Camera, with special advantages not to be found in
any other Camera.
IT CAN BE USED EITHER FOR
HAND OR STAND WORK.
It is compact and portable, and will take sharp, well-defined
pictures x 3;^in.
Each Camera is sold packed in box with complete Book
of Instructions.
At the price the FOLDING VICTOR-KLITO OOK is the
best value obtainable.
sd
UP
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Auckland (N.Z.), Wellington (N.Z.)
SEND FOR A COPY OF OUR
1914 CAMERA PRICE CIST.
NEW


CONSTIPATION.
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS A
SURE YET MILD REMEDY, SAYS
NORTH GRAFTON LADY.
“Having found the need of a medicine to
assist nature,” writes Mrs. Alice Green, of
Prince Street, North Grafton, N.S.W., “in
my case being a sufferer from constipation, 1
had occasion to use remedies and found
nothing equal to Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills for their smooth action and successful
movements of the bowels. They do not pain
and are sure to work the desired end. My
relatives also use your remedy, and speak
favorably of them. You may use this tes-
timony for the benefit of others.”
Nature often requires a little assistance,
and if this assistance is given at the first
indication much distress and suffering may
be averted. Mothers, especially, should
guard the health of their children, and in-
culcate regular habits from infancy. As a
family remedy for costiveness. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills have a wide reputation.
They are mild in their action, causing neither
weakness nor sickness, and do' not gripe. To
overcome constipation take from one to four
pills regularly until the bowels move daily,
and are restored to healthy action.*
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
fsd
E. RESCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
ď
It Takes a Strong Chair to
Stay in a School of Arts.
As a matter of fact, very few do stay there long—that is, the
seats of them. Constant rough handling soon breaks the cane seats —
what then? They can be quickly repaired at little cost with
"PIONEER” LEATHER SEATS.
Round ones, 14 to 16 inches in diameter, cost 2/- Add 3|d. for
larger diameters. Other shapes made at slightly higher cost.
“Pioneer” Seats can be had from most Storekeepers, or direct from
J. C. LUDOWICI g SON, Ltd.
Pioneer
Works,
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The feeling in Melbourne among casual
supporters of cricket seems to be equally unfavorable
to the Armstrong party and the Mat Ellis party.
The one is disrespected as being uncontrollable any-
how, and the other is disrespected as a controller
almost everyhow.
* it- * *
The seventh round of Sydney First-Grade
cricket, concluded Saturday last, was more than
usually exciting. The first sensation was the down-
fall of the hitherto invincible University, whose long
career of victory was brought to a disastrous close
by Middle Harbor. On the previous Saturday, Lowe
had slogged 122 and Bull 174 for the Harbor suburb,
and University had assisted its enemy with no less
than 20 sundries. So, although four batsmen had
vanished with the egg-symbol, the Harbor decided to
close with eight wickets down for 380. University,
on the whole, did not shine. Three men bore the
brunt of the fray, chief among them being Tozer, who
smashed and drove 164. Lamrock hit up 51, and
James collected 44, but the failure of the others
made the total only 325, so the top-dog team became
tiie subterranean dog by 55 on the first innings.
Randall Was the Harbor’s destroying angel, with
seven wickets for 128. Tozer’s was a great display,
and included 15 fours, and he wound up a glorious
stand by carrying his bat. He could have sent it
home on a wheelbarrow if he had liked, but he
carried it. The next surprise was the smashing of
Redfern by Petersham. It was a close thing, 13
being the difference, but the manner in which it
was done was miraculous. Petersham had biffed 179
in the first innings, and when Redfern wanted only
41 to win and had five wickets standing, the Peter-
sham following left the ground and took to drink.
Then bowler Scott fell on the Assyrians, and stag-
gered humanity by taking the last three men in five
overs for five runs. Three times during that after-
noon two wickets fell to successive balls. Scott’s
total was four wickets for 30 runs, but it was the
way he did it more than the deed he did. Sydney
hit up only 156 to North Sydney’s 168, and so lost
by 12 on the first innings. Glebe got a horrible
shock. With 333 on the board for seven wickets
the butcher suburb closed its innings and started to
rush Balmain through. But Balmain struggled des-
perately, and the 107 of Kemmis ended all the rush-
ing. When time ran out the tattered suburb had
hit up 298, and had only seven wickets down —a
drawn game. Central Cumberland smashed up Pad-
dington very decisively by 110 on the first innings.
Central Cumberland had hoisted a modest 230 at
the first attempt, but when its bowler Coogan blew
out the shining light Of six Paddington wickets for 50,
and practically brought about the close of the innings
for 120, the argument was finished. Western Suburbs
dismissed Waverley for 179, and then walloped 220
for seven wickets, closed and made a brave attempt
to bustle Waverley through the mill. It failed,
Waverley having lost only two wickets for 120 runs
when the light failed. Pratten was the doer of deeds
for West, with a not-out innings of 123, but he
was well supported by Lambie with 93 and Prentice
with 54.
Maoriland was easy mutton to Victoria.
The Maoris made only 141 in the first innings, and
Victoria responded with the staggering score of 439,
without the aid of a single century. The chief wal-
lopers were Heather, 65 (top score) : McDonald, 64 ;
Matthews (n.o), 63 ; and Kiernan, 61. Back at the
sticks with a deficit of 298 on the first innings,
Maoriland practically collapsed. Sneddon’s 51 was
the best effort, and Tuckwell’s 33 the next. The side
vanished for 188, and Victoria was on top with an
innings and 110 runs. A terrific record.
* * * *
The Sheffield Shield struggle continued at
Adelaide, where S.A. and Ma State Xl’s faced each
other in the presence of 3000 people. The return of
Hill and Whitty to the South Australian fighting line
was not a howling success, Hill being caught for 12
and Whitty clean bowled by Massie for a duck. The
top score, 42, was made by Steele. Kirkwood
carried his bat for 36, and Winser made a modest
but useful 23. Massie’s bowling was deadly, and
bis bag of six wickets for 68 runs ruined South Aus-
tralia’s hopes. Kelleway took three for 65. and
Cotter got one for 18, total 189. Cody and Collins
then struck for Ma, but Cody fell for the letter
that comes after N. Collins lifted 51 and carried
his bat at the eveningtide when the ploughman home-
ward plods his weary way. Macartney added 15,
and Andrews smote 20. Bv the time the hens went
borne N.S W. had scored 95 for three wickets. On
the Saturday, Collins lifted his little lot to 111
before he was run out. Captain Bardsley smote
79, and Sundries contributed 21, a total of 297.
Crawford was easily S.A.’s best bowler, his slaughter
being seven for 78 runs. Whitty again failed, get-
ting only two for 68. Hill did not bowl. Saturday
brought 7000 people to watch the collapse of S.A.
in the second innings. Mayne made 28, Moyes 11
and Hill seven. By sunset seven wickets had fallen
for 66 runs, and S.A. reauired 42 to stave off an
innnings defeat. On Monday the innings closed for
118, leaving the Ma XI only 11 to make to win.
Massie had covered himself with glory, and taken
four wickets for 57 runs, Cotter bagged two for 24.
and Kelleway two for 32. N.S.W. went in and
enriched itself to the extent of 12 for the loss of
one wicket, and the agony was over. Ma won by
nine wickets.
The N.S.W. nine wickets victory over
S.A. at Adelaide well-nigh lifts the Sheffield Shield
into the Ma State’s pantry. The only horrible possi-
bility is the s success of Victoria in the remaining
two matches, with N.S.W. and S.A.. and though
cricket is a game as unreliable and uncertain as the
ways of a woman, on form such a finish is impro-
bable. Thus far. N.S.W. has two wins to one each
by Victoria and South Australia.
“0.K.”: The impossibility of baseball be-
coming a popular game in Australia was demonstrated
clearly enough bv the Giants and White Sox. Cricket
may be a deadly dull entertainment at times, but
it contains everything that is interesting in the
Yank’s glorified rounders, and a lot more. Famili-
arity with baseball breeds disrespect for the nature
of the game. The “pitcher” chucks the ball, the
striker rarely makes a hit which isn’t a haphazard
swipe, in a cricket wav of speaking. There is little
placing of the ball. It is almost invariably skied,
and as often as not it is caught by a fieldsman. The
swiner is ordinarily caught out, or run out. In a
proportion of cases he gets a free passage to the
first base, not as the result of a scientific hit, but
because lie didn’t make any hit at all, the cliucker
having failed to fulfil the regulations against foul
throwing. So the non-striker scores a walk-over to
the first base. From there he can, perchance, score
a complete round before the next striker has done
anvthing. The pitcher, maybe, will throw the ball
to the fieldsman at the first base with the idea of
getting the other fellow run out, and if the fields-
man makes a mull the other fellow takes advantage
of the overthrow to run all the way home, perhaps.
A team plays for an hour without scoring more than
one run, which is achieved through an overthrow by
a man who never struck the ball during his innings.
He became top-scorer — i.e., the only scorer—for his
side, without showing any skill at all in connection
with the run which he obtained. And when a bats-
man does hit the ball the chances are that he shows
no skill. He skies it anywhere. A cricketer soon
tires of watching a rapid succession of strikers make
worthless hits, or of seeing the best of them get run
out. Baseball hasn’t a chance in Australia. If the
Giants and White Sox had played for five days run-
ning on the Sydney and Melbourne grounds the fifth
day’s play in either city would not have drawn a £5
gate. Their fielding was admirable, to be sure, and
surely the same strokes would be fielded just as
admirably by any touring cricket team whose batting
and bowling was their chief attraction.
At long last the result of the Motor Cycle
contest for the Continental Cup is out. The result
was frightfully complicated by the three separate
competitions which raged during the flight from Syd-
ney to Melbourne. There was the Goulburn flexi-
bility hill climb; the Jugiong Hill climb, and the
Seymour-to-Cragieburn Secret Test—whatever that
was. There were many prizes, and various and
different shades of glory, but the real winner of the
contest is the man who received the Continental Cup
of £2O and the Reliabilitv Gold Medal for the best
average performance. All this loot went to H. Jen-
kins, of Victoria, with J. Gunn, of the same section,
runner up. The winner rode a 2J-h.p. Douglas. Gunn
bestrode a 2 J-h.p. Sunbeam. Which all bears out the
argument put forth herein that the high-powered
6-h.p. and 7-h.p. machines are quite unnecessary for
even our Australian roads, and are petrol drunkards.
Of the 28 motor-cars which started gaily
in the Melbourne to Sydney Reliability Test on
Wednesday, last week, no less than 24 finished, bring-
ing in their human freight in a more or less frizzled
state. The heat was terrific. Turner won in a
Benz, and a Talbot and a Benz were second and
third respectively. The indications point to the fact
that a Benz will be a good car to have on the steep
and sultry gradients of Sheol. So fierce was the
climate that the water in the radiators boiled when
the engines were not running. The general opinion
is that this time of the year is eminently unsuitable
for reliability tests.
ANOTHER DESTROYING DEVIL.
Tom McCormick shatters the saintly boxer
Summers in the Welter championship of the
British Empire at Sydney Stadium.
Interesting details of the three-days’
autumn meeting of a real Japanese racing club at
Hanshin are given by the Japan Weekly Chronicle
(16/10/T3). The racing was on Friday, Saturday
arid Sunday, nine events each day, and only five of
the 27 were less than a mile. Stakes were in yen,
but weight in pounds, American style, and well piled
on, one winner carrying 1541 b. (list.), and hardly
any below 1301 b. The chief race was for a cup pre-
sented by the Emperor; and when the Japs say
“cup’’ they mean it, for the second and third took
some cash, but the winner nothing but the silver
bowl. This race was for “country bred horses,” the
other two classes recognised being “Australian
griffins of 1913,” and “all Australian horses.” Owners
were all Japanese, horses’ names mostly so, and all
the jockeys but one; but that one, Coffey, in the
small fields (averaging not over six) got nine firsts,
five seconds, and three thirds.
* * * *
All the talk about the dirty condition of
the Turf in Victoria, and the exploiting of “book-
makers and the public alike,” by an all-powerful
“gang of schemers,” is doing nothing to dispel the
suspicion that the “gang” and the public suffered
equally a while ago from a jockey-cura-bookmaker
swindle. Whoever directs the “stiffening” of horses,
the jockeys are the rogues who pull the reins, anyhow.
Even the maddest apologist doesn’t pretend that the
horse shoves himself backwards because he has the
wages of sin in his pocket. The purification of the
Turf in Victoria needs to begin with the Sydney
jockey at the occasional big meetings.
Ascot (Sydney) pony course saw a curious
happening on Saturday last when in the Approved
Stakes Tourmaline and Clarebrook ran a dead heat.
A run-off was decided upon, and again they dead-
heated amidst tremendous excitement. So a‘ second
run-off was ordered, and that time Tourmaline beat
his exhausted rival by half a length. The final race
saw different riders on both horses, and that may
have had something to do with it. But it was a very
strenuous struggle, indeed.
* * * *
Auckland (M.L.) went quite mad over
the Tote at Christmastide. In four days no less than
£225,410 was pushed through the machine —in
cash. This was an increase of magnitude, in exact
figures of £45,000. And .all that money didn’t buy
a single bookmaker a drink, unless the book became
an ordinary individual and had a shot at the machine
in his private capacity, as any parson might do.
Hats off to veteran Sydney amateur ath-
lete Maher, who is still a tougher morsel than some
of the youngsters. At the East Sydney sports meet-
ing on Saturday he won the 100 Yards Handicap,
hurled the shot from scratch a distance of 36ft. and
won, and then went under in the hop, step and jump
effort of 42ft. 9£in. by 8-Jin. Is the old ’un sharpen-
ing his muscles for a go at the all-fired Yanks when
they arrive? More power and glory to him.
N.S.W. Swimming Championships were
continued at the Domain Baths (Sydney) in the
presence of a very dense crowd. Longworth was on
hand to defend his title to the 220 Yards State
Championship, and Cecil Healy was there to collar
it. It was a terrific race, and though Longworth
won, he had to fight as he never fought before. At
50yds. from home he was leading by 2yds., but
Healy came with a determined and wonderfully sus-
tained spurt, and the great bath rocked to the thun-
derous cheers as it was seen that he was rapidly
overhauling the champion. Still Longworth plugged
steadily away, and his pluck enabled him to win by
something less than a foot. Healy had made his
dash too late. Longworth was so exhausted that it
was some time before he recovered sufficiently to
dress. Evidently he has passed his zenith, as the
time (2min. 31 l-ssec.) was 3 4-ssec. slower than
his own time in the same bath back in
January, 1912. The Diving Championship went to
S. Riddington, of the Manly Club, who made a poor
start, but made up his leeway with three beautiful
flights at the last. Curiously enough Riddington’s
win is the first occasion on which the diving cham-
pionship has gone to a member of the Manly Club,
the members of which are practically amphibious.
In the 500 Yards team race the championship was
defended by Rose Bay, which had held it for the
past year. But the Sydney team proved too tough
and never gave the holders a chance.
* * * *
Altogether Longworth has had a harvest
in the Championships. He lost the 100 Yards by
only a foot, but he snapped the 220, 440, 880 Yards
and One Mile events very adroitly. But, as in the
220 Yards, his time was dead slow compared to that
he has put up in the same events in days a-rear. In
fact, the only man to show top-notch form was Cecil
Healy in his ferocious dash for the 220 Yards’
honors.
More than probable that the oft-deferred
visit of the much-promised team of British riflemen
will fall on Australia during 1914. The occasion will
be the Empire trophy match. The Australian Gov-
ernment is to be worried for £lOOO to boost up the
visit and enable the thing to be done properly, as
Jenkins (now dead) used to say in Melbourne. And
no doubt the Chook Government, which starves the
local riflemen, and cannot evfen pay a packer to open
Up the aeroplanes that are lying in bonded stores
somewhere round Melbourne, will rise to the occasion
majestically in the holy interests of Imperialism.
* * * *
Yachting and other forms of sailing on
Port Jackson (N.S.W.), on Saturday were quite
devoid pf any excitement. In the light, patchy
breezes which varied from north-east to north-west,
the tiniest cockle-shell afloat ran no risks, and the
big yachts had to get out and push. It was the
Royal Yacht Squadron’s day out, and the bone of
contention was the cup presented by the well-loved,
bluff old Harry Rawson in years agone. The racing
was far from interesting, and in the end Mr. Marks
drifted home first with Culwulla 111. and beat Sayo-
nara, the holder since last year, by 42 seconds.
Yeulba, with Mr. Doran at the tiller, snailed into
third place. Sayonara was also commanded by its
owner, Mr. Paul Ross. In spite of the lack of wind
the Sydney Sailing Club managed to bring off a
couple of neat capsizes, and a 10-footer turned turtle
at Shark Island, right in front of the racer Nimrod,
which got beautifully tangled up with the acrobatic
dinghy. How they managed it is a mystery, unless
a whale hit them underneath. But notwithstanding
the delay Nimrod managed to blow into second place,
3min. 40see. behind the winner, Advance, po, as the
delay over the wreck amounted to only a few sec-
onds, it is fairly clear that on the breeze the Nimrod
had no hope of beating the Advance. y
* * * *
The Australian 18-foot championship con-
test rages at Perth this year about the end of the
current month ; and on Saturday last the Sydney flier
Australian and the Brisbane crack Vanity left the
Ma capital per the Mooltan to take part. Great was
the send-off.
* * * *
The Australian Sculling Championship
will not lie down, and the holder, Charlie Towns, last
week accepted F. S. Hagney’s challenge to row for it
and £ 50. The event will crystallise into hard fact
on the Parramatta River on Feb. 23, and it is pos-
sible, if not actually probable, that the side wager
will bloat out to a level £lOO.
The Yankee baseballers having fled on
south and west Sydney Summer Competition re-
sumed. But the spectacle of the splendidly polished
game of the Americans had blunted the appetite for
local play, and the attendance was dog poor. In
fact, it was leaner than Pharaoh’s kine (Nos. _ 8 to
14). Waverley was a house divided between itself,
and the Blue Sox fell on the Red . Hose and scrunched
it up by five to three. The Red crowd started to
score first and got three runs) in the first two in-
nings. It was not till the fifth session that the
Blues started, and then they snapped a couple, and
adding one at each successive session, while they
prevented the other side scoring, won as abovemen-
tioned. Leichhardt fell upon Petersham and over-
whelmed it by 14 to two; and the disparity made
the game a very dreary spectacle. I Leichhardt has
easily the best team in Sydney.
Australia’s High Priest of Pugilism, Reg
L. Baker, accompanied by his wife, left Sydney in
the Sonoma on Saturday last for the gay and evil
city of San Francisco. Mr. Baker does not propose
to stay very long in ’Frisco. His,' is to be a very
hurried flight. He will rage across the continent,
selecting some scrappers as he g6es, and rush to
Paris where he will use his persuasive powers on
Carpentier. Thence he goes to Finland and Scandi-
navia to learn the latest developments regarding
physical culture. During his absence the business of
the Stadium will be controlled by a council of his
officers, but in all grave matters the council will
communicate with the general-in-chief by cable.
Harry Stone and Alf Morey put up an
interesting scrap at Brisbane on Saturday night.
The disturbance was in full blast when a thunder-
storm burst over the eighth round, and the stadium
being unroofed, the floor became very slippery. The
warriors discarded their boots, and, refreshed by the
rain, made the fighting very fast. The audience so
appreciated it that they sat the event out, and though
soaked to the skin cheered the gladiators enthusiasti-
cally. At the end Stone was declared winner on
points, but the stubborn battle put up by the West-
ralian against the conqueror of Wells and Summers
evoked wild enthusiasm.
The alleged auxiety of Dave Smith to
meet Eddie McGoorty again moves this scribe to
ribald mirth. Smith will never be able to hold his
own against that doughty basher though he
should meet him a score of times —unless, of course,
Eddie is struck by lightning or something extraneous
like that. Even‘the dog-walloping Burns got from
Johnson pales into insignificance alongside the quick,
clean despatch of Smith by McGoorty. McGoorty is
to butt into the hard-hitting and lion-hearted Pat
Bradle" on February 7, and this writer fully expects
that the stubborn Patrick will give him the cam-
paign of his life. The way that Bradley came back
after the cyclonic battering of Jerry Jerome had beaten
him to his knees convinced everyone that he is as
plucky as he is strong. Also, with his peculiar style
of fighting and his splendid jaw-guard, the chances
are that Bradley can defy the left hook that settled
Smith so quickly in two continents. Jeff Smith is
matched with Dave Smith for February 21, and the
Englishman is not too keen on the battle. After
Smith’s downfall Smith does not regard Smith as a
worthy foeman, and yet Smith knows that it is
quite possible that the discredited Smith may go
the full term with him (Smith). And as Jeff Smith
has to meet McGoorty later on, he fears that a
decent stand by Smith may damage his (Smith’s)
prestige. But there’s nothing in it —it won’t impair
Smith’s fighting, and if he wallops McGoorty then
his prestige will rush up like Smith’s gourd—or
Jonah’s.
* * *
For solid, hard punching, sustained fight-
ing and large brain development, the battle between
Johnny Summers and Tom McCormick, at Sydney
Stadium, for ,the welterweight championship of the
British Empire, would be hard to beat. McCormick
is a borer of purest mill serene, and in spite of the
terrific battery poured in as Johnny Summers can
pour it, he crowded right into his formidable oppo-
nent, and hit, and smote, and bashed, and walloped,
and banged all the time. No matter how the versatile
Johnny smote him, McCormick smote back. They
charged one another like battering rams. Both
guarded with consummate skill, and both hit like
lightning at the slightest opening. Each round saw
one or more fierce rallies, in which Summers scored
always at the first, while McCormick came with a
triumphant burst at the finish. McCormick is
handier with his fists at close-quarters than Summers,
and to swing a knock-out blow the latter kept back-
ing away from him. McCormick’s fleet footwork
enabled him to follow and prevent the hostile force
getting an opportunity of sending home the dead
finish. Summers is much the harder hitter of the
two, but McCormick’s absorption of punishment is
marvellous, and he took all the furniture that was
coming to him for the chance of letting his own
blizzard loose when Johnny must inevitably slow
down. It was Johnny’s misfortune that he scored
most at the beginning. The man who scores last is
like he who laughs last or is hanged last—he scores
best. So at the end Scott placed his hand on McCor
mick’s throbbing brain, and the vast majority of the
crowd agreed with him. The decision was perfectly
right, but the margin Was so slight that the verdict
is quite likely to be reversed next meeting. _ Although
McCormick won the Welterweight championship of
the Empire he does not get possession of the Lons-
dale belt. That can be fought for only at the
National Sporting Club, London.
Poor old Dan O’Connor, the Hibernian
“Demosthenes” of N. S. Wales politics in
Parkes’s day, and of late years a patriarchal
wreck in a battered belltopper, is reported
to be critically ill in the old people’s refuge
at Liverpool (N.S.W.).
“Scrap-Log,” from London
Captain J. Beazley, of the Southampton, Isle of
Wight and South of England Royal Mail Steam
Packet Co., has just said good-bye to Neptune after
a sea-service nearly as long as his last co.’s name.
The ancient Noah launched himself as an apprentice
in ’57 at Shoreham ; served during .’6l-2 in foreign
trade, and in ’63 signed on as third mate to the
Koval Bride, bound for Maoriland. The Bride’s
career ended at Napier, where it cast itself up against
the rocks and did a perish. Beazley was thereafter
mate of the brigantine Seagull, trading between
Maoriland and Australia. He was wrecked again in
Talago Bay. His first job as master was in the yacht
Telegraph, owned by Judge Rogan, of Kaipara; but
he soon returned to cargo work, and ran the big
Pakeha between Maoriland and Australia until 1870,
when he sailed for London. After that he settled
down to a jog-trot job with the Isle of Wight co.,
and finished his sailoring there as described on the
topmast of this paragraph.
Another dramatic performance by Melb.
detectives was duly reported last week. A
man who had been living the simple, harm-
less life in a mia-mia somewhere up country
was arrested at midnight on the charge of
being the escaped prisoner in a maternity-
bonus case. Having obtained a maternity
fiver by fraud, and blushing to find it fame,
the accused had fled from custody with a
view to earning the wages of honest toil as
a fruit picker. Three months he had been
at liberty ere the police got the chance to
restore him to captivity- He dreamed of
being able to get away to America by means
of his earnings up country, but ever since the
terrible tecs swooped down upon his little
mia-mia, armed with revolvers and swords,
his ambition is to figure as the hero in a
cinematograph picture. His first remark
when his captors had aroused him from
slumber was, “Why didn’t you bring a
camera with you?”


WHY DON’T YOU LEARN
TO USE YOUR HANDS?
k
You fully realise the importance of know-
ing how to defend yourself. Because self-
preservation is part and parcel of every form
of life.
You ought, to do something to develop your
natural power. Why not learn to box—learn
to use your hands to the best advantage?
Otherwise the time will surely come vvhen
you will bitterly repent your indecision.
Perhaps it may' be a matter of life and
death, then —you’ll wish in vain.
There’s no excuse for you not knowing how
to box. I can teach you in your own home.
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST.
I thoroughly explain the most serviceable
moves known to Ringcraft. The best moves
of the most famous living boxers will form
part of your instruction. If you were
entangled ip a mix-up, what a big advantage
you’d have —what confidence you’d have, and
that’s half the battle. Here is a letter from
one pupil:—
“I am getting along splendidly with
my boxing. I am beginning to feel sure
of myself. It is a grand pastime.”
TI.E.W., Nimbin, N.S.W.
See how he’s building up confidence, because he knows how. You ought to learn “how” too.
Write for my 32-page booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which describes my methods, and
gives cost of tuition. It’s worth having. Send three penny stamps for postage - .
REG. L.("Snowy”) BAKER,
272 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
T.C.WiluamsC®
p Richmond, p
1-* VIRGINIA, /
U.S.A. 7
,
WHITE ROSE
t'Hsianv
r~i
S*i* A**at for K.S.W.,
A. M. SOLOMON.
73 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
‘White Rose”
To bacco.
One of T. C. Williams Co.’s (Virginia,
U.S.A.) Famous High-grade Tobaccos.
I am now Solo Agent for this
Tobacco in New South Walesa
It is an excellent tobacco —smokes cool —
always cool. It is just such tobacco that
helps you get split! comfort out of vour
smoke.
Has a most pleasing aroma, and is put up
in one strength only (medium).
4oz. tins, 2/.; Boz., 3/9; 160 Z., 7/6;
Plug fprm, 7/-' lh.
Postage: l}b,, N.S.W., 9d. Inter-State, 1/2.
Write fpr a copy of my Illustrated Catalog—
free op request,
a. n. soLonoN,
“Cigar Expert,”
173 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Freedom, Ease 8 Comfort
The ...
WELMAR
Shirt
Pat. 1274
24/5/’ll.
Stocked by
Leading
Mercers and
Outfitters.
Manufactured by
Welch, Margetson $ Co.
Pty. Ltd.
'Tt
rx
9
"Keep Smiling *
In other words •
“£HELL
<Benzine
O BTAI NABtE
everywhere
Do you require any
MINING MACHINERY?
IC so, Why not try
—RRUPP’S—
For TIN,
GOLD, SILVER,
LEAD, COPPER
CATALOGS FROM
and Silver Lead Plants
to treat from Ore
to Bullion.
NOYES BROS
499-501 Bourke St., Melbourne
115 Clarence Street, Sydney
And at Brisbane and Perth
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND & FINANCE CO., LTD., SYDNEY
Wishes its Clients and Woolgrowers
generally a
Prosperous New Year.
The A.M.L. & F. holds frequent Sales of Wool, Hides, Tallow,
Sheepskins, Rabbitskins, Marsupial Skins, &c.
TOP PRICES. QUICK RETURNS.
Liberal advances on Goods in Store if required.
APPLICATIONS FOR ADVANCES invited on Pastoral Properties (Free-
hold, C.P., C.L., Settlement Lease, &c.) and Stock.
Rig'ney Shoes for Style
Sr>.
and Comfort
Rigney Shoes are dressy, distinctive and ser-
viceable. Just such shoes that give an
infinitely stylish touch to the otherwise
faultlessly attired.
The Shoe illustrated is a Tan Willow Calf
Derby Shoe, Brown Cloth Insertion Tops,
“Non-Tread-Over” Brand.
Price - - 32/6.
Postage 9d. extra.
"Write for our Catalog.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Building's, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
•' <
JHC
The Success
and undoubted superiority
DUNLOP
MOTOR CYCLE
* TYRES *
in the Sydney-Melboume, and
Adelaide - Melbourne Motor
Cycle Reliability Contests
was most pronounced—
these Reliable and Durable
Tyres easily giving the best
result
IT PAYS TO USE THE BEST!
OBTAINABLE ALL AGENCIES
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All States & N.Z.
The wonderfully prolific Arthur Lynch,
born in Victoria and educated (for a start)
at Melbourne University, of which he is an
M.A., had, at latest, gone from London to
Paris to bring out a novel he has written in
French. It is a remarkable production in
one respect, anyhow—it has only two char-
acters. While he was writing his novel in
French he was also writing in English a
book expounding a new theory of the higher
mathematics. Incidentally, besides being an
M.A. and a doctor of medicine (M.R.C.S.)
and a member of the House of Commons, he
is, like his father, a qualified civil engineer.
A soldier of rare experience passed on to
the Last Review last week at Maoriland
when Lieut.-Col. Maillard Noake died. As
a lad of 16 he joined a cavalry regiment in
the south of Ireland, was through the famine
riots in that unhappy country, and saw the
Chartist disturbances in England. During
the Crimean war he swung a sword with the
Scots Greys at Balaclava and elsewhere.
For distinguished service at Balaclava he
was attached to a British medal. Not to be
behindhand the Unspeakable Turk likewise
passed along a special decoration. Then,
back to Ireland to patch up wounds pre-
paratory to more blood-letting in India and
Maoriland, where, especially in 1863, he
made our cannibal brother’s fur fly as a
leader of various expeditions. The M.L.
Government specially thanked him for the
results attained, but cannibal brother made
no public comment. After peace was made
Noake hung up his metalware and lived the
more or less retired life. He was 84 when
he retired for good.


DIAMONDS
Reduced Enormously.
Two years ago we took on a Sole Agency, calling
for an enormous output of Diamonds, arid with a
view to making the turnover, we offered them at
a broker’s commission above cutters’ cost.
It barely paid us the first year, the second .the
sales were so great it did better, and we are trying
it for another year.
We only stock the Best (trades of Diamonds, but
our prices for these are THE LOWEST.
There is no duty on diamonds.
FAIRFAX § ROBERTS LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 8 25 HUNTER STREET.
Selected Diamonds, set in Plat-
inum, with Platinum Neck Chain,
choicely cased, £l3/10/-
SEE THAT YOUR PURCHASE
BEARS THE GENUINE MARK
m
x
V
V
%
Waterman’s
Ideal
fountain Pen
fsd
Nibs to
Suit Every
Hand.
This Trade Mark stands the world over as
a guarantee of satisfying pen service and life-
long writingcontentment. Waterman’s Ideal isalways
in order, always ready to write, always trustworthy.
Ia four types —Regular, Safety, Self-Filling and Pump-Filling.
Of Stationers and J ewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd., LONDON, England.
(Australia: 350, George St„ Sydn-v.> Write for booklet.
y
THE BEST
jSMOKE
IS
Yellow
aster
TOBACCO
V.
n
X
STEVENS
A Favorite the World Around.
Full octagon barrel, 24in., 4Jlb. .22, .25, or
.32 calibre.
Automatic ejector in .22 calibre.
The FAVORITE RIFLE No. 27
For Sale by all Dealers in the Com-
monwealth.
Latest Rifle and Shotgun Catalogs and full
information supplied by
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. STEVENS ARMS & TOOL
COMPANY. C.P.O. Box 86, Adelaide. South Australia. [3
COST OF PRODUCTION CHEAPENED.
Pieper Bayard Hammerless Cun
We are manufacturing one Model only In Hammerless
Guns. THIS CHEAPENS THE COST.
A High-class
f
at a Reasonable Price.
With all latest
improvements, in-
cluding: Pieper’s
Patent Automatic
Indicators to each
barrel. Automatic
Safety and Bayard
Patent Top Bolt
<-v
K
Write to
To
W. A.
be had of all Storekeepers, Gunsmiths and Merchants.
COX, Box 875, G.P.0., Sydney, for Descriptive Book, post free.
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d.
sdf
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
sf
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
Price 1/- per Bottle. Of all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD., MELBOURNE, VIC'TORIA.
None Genuine "without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
/ ! ••
ISO
Why keep on scratch-
ing? If you are suffer-
ing from Eczema im-
mediate relief will be
found on the applica-
tion of “ISO.” It
soothes and heals. Send
3d. (in stamps) for
liberal sample to
BLACK, Chemist, Collingwood, Vic.
Kriischen
( Salts
Now sold by Chemists throughout tue commonwealth. I
, Wholesale importers:
H. &W. GRCAR, 287, clarence Street, SYDNEY, f
sd
WMI
w?~
• /
tm
?!
- s=
Because through many sea-
sons and on many a long
tramp he has relied upon them
to make the day’s sport worth
while and return with a full
bag. Through sunshine and
rain, on the open plains or in
the marshy bogs these thor-
Pem/ngton.-UMC Shotgun Cartridges
Appeal to the Old Time Sportsman
oughly waterproofed cartrid-
ges have never missed fire or
become mis-shapen. They
have given him good service
always and so the old timer
always specifies Remington -
UMC when ordering his sea-
son’s supply.
Illustrated catalogue and a nice coloured hanger
suitable for framing free on request. The leading
dealers handle Remington-UMC shotgun cartridges.
Remington Arms —Union Metallic Cartridge Company
299-301 Broadway • • - New York, U. S. A.
Australian Representative: D< D, Bryant* P.O. Box 680, Melbourne.
“J.F.H,”: What is the Australian record long-
night in a theatre ? A recent revue in Paris started
at 8.30 p.m. and the curtain did not fall until 2
o’clock on the following morning. English dramatic
critic Clement Scott in one of his books of reminis-
cences tells of a play, in London that never came to
an end and was never heard of again. It started at
8 p.m. and was still pottering along at 4 a.m. When
that hour struck, so did the scene-shifters and the
stage-hands. They turned out the lights, let down
the curtain, bundled the company and the attenuated
audience out, and ■ went home to bed.
George Grossmitli, in his just-published book of
Gaiety Theatre reminiscences, fells an anecdote bear-
ing on the intensely unliterary character of manager
George Edwardes. When he (Grossmith) remarked
that Tolstoi was dead, the theatrical magnate re-
plied : “What a pity! ‘Good-bye, Summer,’ was my
favorite song.” Edwardes had evidently made a
mental note of the name of Tosti, and was thinking
of his most popular ballad as an adieu to the sum-
mer season.
Haddon Chambers borrowed the' plot of his latest
comedy, “Xante,” from a novel of the same name.
“Xante,” which got its first hearing in New York, is
said to be a winner all the way.
“Monkbarns”: Christinas pantomimes seen in Mel-
bourne, from six times to a mere once: “Adamanta,”
“Aladdin,” “Arabian Nights,” “Babes in the Wood,”
“Beauty and the Beast,” “Camraleaman,’' “Cinder-
ella,” “Conundrum Castle,” “Djin Djin,” “Enchanted
Isle,” “Forty Thieves,” “Froggy Would a-Wooing
Go,” “Goody Two Shoes,” “Gulliver,” “Harlequin
Jack Sheppard,” “Harlequin L.5.D.,” “Harlequin
Rule of Three,” “Hey, Diddle Diddle,” “High Low
Jack and Game,” “House that Jack Built,” “Humpty
Dumpty,” “Jack and Jill,” “Jack and Beanstalk,”
“Jack Horner,” “Lalla Rookh,” “Magician's Daugh-
ter,” “Matsa;” “Mother Goose,” “Puss iji Boots,”
“Red Riding Hood,” “Riquet with Tuft,” “Robin
Hood,” “Robinson Crusoe,” “Santa Claus,” “Sin-
bad,” “Sleeping Beauty,” “Tom the Piper’s Son,”
“Twinkle, Little Star,” “Valentine and Orson,”
“Whittington.” The same old game, the same old
dame; same old principal Bhi, same old principal
Gerrel. As the French say, the more you change, the
more it’s the same thing. Yet “Peter Pan,” “The
Blue Bird” and “Rip Van Winkle” will come in.
While the dark days are on us_ Hickory Wood is the
genius who supplies Australia. ' Yet Australian panto-
mime authors have written in seven-league boots
beyond this stodgy Britisher —Marcus Clarke,
Akhurst, Garnet Walch, Finn, Eville and Carrington
among them. But because he is English, Hickory
Wood mops up, a thousand pounds where a real Aus-
tralian genius used to be contented with the cus-
tomary hundred. God save our gracious selves! Our
theatrical managers don’t believe we can do it on
our own.
“Meg”: Sniffkins used to be the leader of the
brass band in our Queensland town. He also led
the choir in church. There is no band now; and,
though Sniffkins is silent on the subject, the oldest
inhabitant explains why. Some of the old brigade,
who had risen from bullockies to squatters, deter-
mined to start a Caledonian Day, and McParritch
suggested a procession. McTavish added sports and
a ball, while McGlasgow telegraphed for three bag-
pipers from Brisbane, and hang the expense! The
procession was duly formed, Sniffkins and his band
taking the lead, a* usual, and swelling with ardor.
The three pipers, having been comfortably filled with
whiskv, started from the pub to the strains of “Annie
Laurie,” followed by McParritch and the rest. Sniff-
kins presently thought it time to begin, and the
band opened up with a quick march. Then there
suddenly appeared half a dozen infuriated Scotchmen,
McParritch at their head. Waving their arms like
flails, while their whiskers shook with excitement,
they stood over Snifl'kins and shouted: “Here, mon
Here, mon ! Stop that *** noise, or we’ll break
your neck! We want to hear the music.” Since
then there has been no hand, though Sniffkins still
leads the choir.
G. R. Sims’s present success, “The Ever Open
Door,’’ a rather treacly mixture of sentiment, .melo-
drama and religion, is the 60th play he has written,
either alone or in collaboration.
“Ike Pagliacci”: When biz is bad the touring
manager gets plenty of consolation from his waybaek
patron. Once, touring with a show with a salary lis .
of £l6O, we got used to the frequent “You ouglr
to ha’ been here last week,” and the just as frequent
“You oughter get here just after it rains” ; but
only once we heard the consoling advice from a patron
in a £3 house, “What you ought to do is git here
on a moonlight night.”
“Moana”: It’s up to someone lo shed a few teal's
over the corpse of good, old-fashioned bellodrammer
Alas, that the real thing should be no more—that
1 should not now be able to spend a hard-earned hob
to help Walter Baker find the missing will under the
sofa, or to see Eugenie Duggan, with her chee-ild,
howling in the paper snow outside her stern father-
in-law’s mansion (admission refused because she can't
produce her marriage lines)! All this is gone, and
what have we got in its place? Merely the White
Slave traffic, and that’s being absolutely done to
death. Builders of bellodrammer seem to have got
the traffic on the brain, and have fired at us “The
Warning” (which doesn’t warn worth tuppence),
“The Night Side of London” (which ought to get 13
years for premeditated libel), “The Girl Who Missed
the ’Bus,” “The Girl Who Took the Wrong Tram
Home,” and many others too numerous to mention.
The traffic has no place in the bellodrammer, anyhow.
That’s the domain of the missing will, the lost
marriage lines and the stolen wedding ring, and the
sooner bello-drivers realise this and get back to right
paths the better. Their present laqk of respect for
ancient institutions is deplorable.
A Birmingham Bench lately considered the legal
question whether ragtime girls can dance on the
auditorium side of the footlights. But that isn’t so
much the question as whether they can dance on
either side of the footlights.
“Stargazer”: There is nothing at Luna Park
(Melb.) quite like the chief official spruiker,
who rises and descants when anything impressive is
about to be done. His chief object appears to be to
convince the vast assemblage that the death-defying
or dare-devil performer now due is almost certain to
terminate fatally within the next 10 minutes, and to
beseech the audience to be calm and stand , fast come
what may. His is the sort of oratory intended to
appeal to a herd of turnip-headed yokels at an Eng-
lish country fair. The crowd listens and sizes it up
as pure blither that should be corked and kept in a
dry place. Really there is nothing an Australian
crowd hates more than talk when anything is to be
done. Its own Parliaments have sickened it of that.
Since last March an amusement tax has been in
operation in Germany, and the Berlin theatres and,
music-halls are crying out that ruination is ahead
of them. The tax runs from 10 per cent, on the
cheap seats up to 30 per cent, on the expensive ones.
The proprietors sought to pass it on to their patrons
by raising their prices, but the latter retaliated by
buying the cheap seats and leaving the best parts of
the house pretty well empty. One Berlin variety
shop reckons that the tax will cost it £7500 a year,
. and another says its bill will be £ 5000. A move--
ment has, of course, been started to repeal the
obnoxious impost, which, it is alleged, is “much too
heavy, and will result in many places of amusement
having to close their doors.”
“J.F.H.”: Before he began to earn £lOOO a week
in the variety halls Harry Lauder was a Scottish
coalminer, and his experiences at that time have
made him a keen sympathiser with the ponies which
work in the coalpits and rarely see the iight of day.
He has done some lobbying in the House of Com-
mons to promote a Bill for their benefit, and has
enlisted the help of a good many M’s.P. of all
parties.


Individual Motor
Drive of Portable
Air Compressors.
Since it is more economical to
transmit power electrically than
pneumatically, Air Compressors
should be located as near the tools
they operate as possible.
Such isolated compressors give
maximum continuity of operation,
and are always kept at desired speed
—without air line leakage —when
driven by General EleCtric Co.
(U.S.A.) EleCtric Motors.
Write for further information.
J
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.,
217 Clarence Street, SYDNEY,
Corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, MELBOURNE.
Agents
PERTH, W.A.—Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., “Mazda House,” Hay Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
BRISBANE, Q The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia, Ltd. (E.S.C.A.), Edward Street.
NEW ZEALAND—The National Electrical & Engineering Co., Ltd., Dunedin, Auckland, Wellington.
ELECTRIC
A
E
G
ELEVATORS.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
LIFT DEPARTMENT.
Recommended by leading Consulting Engineers and Architects
for Safe, Reliable and Economical Operation.
As installed at ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, PRINCE ALFRED HOSPITAL, STATE BANK,
COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO., MUNICIPAL MARKETS, QUEENSLAND BANK.
40-2 Clarence Street, Sydney
170-6 William Street, Melbourne
129 Currie Street, Adelaide
• • 6
• • •
We are SOLE AGENTS for
Brown, Boveri Co. Ltd.
Brown, Boveri-Parsons Impulse-reaction Turbine of 28,000 h.p. at
1000 r.p.m., for direct coupling to a three-phase alternator
of 21,000 k.v.a.
LEADING SPECIALITIES
Live Steam, Mixed Pressure and Exhaust Steam Turbines.
Turbo-Dynamos and Turbo-Alternators, in the larges sizes
and for any pressure.
Single and Polyphase Transformers, and Switchgear for any
output, and for pressures up to 60,000 volts.
Hydro-Electric Generators, Long Distance Power Transmission
and Railway work.
Turbo-Gas Blowers and Exhausters.
Turbo-Compressors for heavy duty.
Pump Motors (horizontal and vertical) for Mining Work, Elec-
trical Haulage and Winding Plant, etc.
Special Motors for driving Textile Machinery, Paper-making
Machinery, Agricultural Plant, etc.
Regulating Transformers, Induction Regulators and Automatic
Pressure Regulators.
Phase Compensators and Speed Regulating Sets for large
induction motors.
Electric Train Lighting Equipments.
Australian Representatives
HAES & EGGERS LTD., 163 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.


iVUWi
NJ
“3-in-One Oil”
Will Stop the Squeak!
A few drops make creaking,
hinges woi k
quietly and easily.
"iT LUBRICATES PERFECTLY.
r REDUCES FRICTIONAL
WEAR AND TEAK.
PREVENTS RUST, VERDI-
GRIS, TARNISH.
It is a clear, light, highly -
refined Oil that cleans out all
dirt from minute crevices.
Never gums nor cakes.
Most stores sell
“3-in-One” Oil.
Send a Post-card for Free
Sample Bottle and instructive
Booklet.
REID & REID,
Australasian Agents,
F, Harris St., Wellington, NIZ.
6
5
yiVSk
w
'w“ " u fi
CamCOß''*
►*wci
w
THIS
gives
—-"flealth and
Strength to allays
Horlick’s Malted Milk, the i
Food-Drink which gives
health, is equally suitable
and beneficial to all
ages —the feeding infant,
the growing child, the
grown man, the aged, the
invalid of all ages and both
sexes, all keep their strength
on Horlick’s. —It is so pre-
pared that it is ready for
immediate use and requires
no cooking. —Get Horlick's
at the Soda Fountain.
HORL'CKS
MALTED MILK
Williams’ Holder Top
Shaving Stick.
This is the good old
Shaving Stick known to
every gentleman
in Australia, but
now presented in
a new and attrac-
tive form, greatly
enhancing it s
convenience and
economy.
Your chemist will be glad
to show it to you.
TIIE Best Stories written by Australian
Writers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price, 6d. monthly.
A SMILE OF SATISFACTION
0
4SV
fsd
OVER 1000 TONS OF LEMONS
have been used in the manufacture
of “l.emos,” and it is now sold almost
all over the world.
Don’t Lose Your Profits
vA'
CX
m
uJJ
X.
a
O
o
9»
h
H
to
in
3
U
o
o
o
o
e?
o
o,
o
is?.
SPi
m
vu
£
a
o
U)
D
Q
0
ez
SEE THAT THE BOTTOM HOOP IS STRONG.
A National Cash Register system will step the leaks through which
your profits escape; will increase your trade; and increase your profits.
National Cash Registers take care of your credit business as well as your cash.
If you are a wise business man you know that what you need is
PROTECTION against the leaks and losses that are liable to occur in any
business. National Cash Registers give PROTECTION. They pay for
themselves and then pay you. A National Cash Register is not an expense,
it is an investment.
Write us for information as to how we can save YOU money in
YOUR business.
REMEMBER.
We guarantee to furnish a better Cash Register for
less money than any other concern in the world
THE NATIONAL GASH REGISTER COMPANY
Of Australasia, Limited,
Head Office: 119 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
50 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
343 Queen Street, Brisbane.
117 a Rundle Street, Adelaide.
Paul’s Chambers, Bolton Street, Newcastle.
The'“Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
, other pen.made; anay be. carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed""erratic working is out' of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years 7 -experience,; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
281 Murray Street, Perth,
57 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
80 Collins Street, Hobart.
SWA
POWHTPEN.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney
fsd
SHIFTS
SIX TONS
WITH
ONE HAND
EASILY.
Such is the power
of the “BUNYIP”
FOREST DEVIL.
Wi
*)r
m
<?
BUNYIP
«
FORE
This marvellous machine uproots the biggest tree in 15 minutes
with very little exertion. It pulls away stumps and boulders and
pays for itself over and over again. It is so simple that a child can
work it, and saves £5 on every acre cleared. Be sure and send for
fuller details.
John Cooper O. Sons,
All Farming Machinery,
287-289 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
ON THE NOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings, Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
“Oi lao” (who is in a position to know) :
The Brisbane yarn (referred to incidentally in
B. 20/11/’l3) about Governor Murray, of Papua,
having been abandoned by his native carriers and left
alone in an insanitary jungle, had no truth in' it;
ahd the Brisbane CouMEH’s deductions—-that the
white man’s authority is passing in Papua—fall to
*he ground dead. None of Murray’s carriers left
him; none of them ever have left him. As regards
the trip in question', so little was he delayed that
he did the journey in record time.
Falkiner, M.H.R. for Riverina, is alleged
to be “sick of politics.” Men of the Fat-'
kiner school of Liberal thought scoff at the
Parliamentarian who declares that be more
Ilian earns bis salary, and wants a rise.
But, when the scoffing Liberal gets into
the game, lie finds that, after all, politics
are more strenuous and nerve-racking than
(say) sitting on an empty sheep-dip drum
and energetically watching jumbueks go
through a gate.
“P.”: When the late A. W. Craven, ex-
Vic. Chairman of Committees, went to
Beecliworth, just after passing his surveyor’s
exam., he had hardly- sixpence in coppers
to jingle. The local surveyor had quarrelled
with Nixon, the District Surveyor, and the
latter offered Craven some work, ('raven,
though he had to hire a theodolite, took it
on, and an Irish publican trusted him for
three months for. board. He hired a horse
and trap, did the job well, and had some
more work thrown at him. When lie had
got a few pounds together he went to Mel-
bourne, studied some more, won his mining
surveyor’s license, and then butted in for a
fair whack of the district’s mining work—
and got it. That’s the sort of man he was,
and explains why he climbed as far up as he
did.
Recent obituaries contained the names of
Marjorie and Jessie Craig, pretty well
the last of the dandy sea-nymphs who
formerly flirted their white skirts between
Australia and Maoriland. The barques—
fliers in their day—were sold for conversion
into coal-hulks. Marjorie (499 tops) reeled
off a record or two in her time; she scudded
from Kaipara (M.L. j to Melbourne in
eight days; from Newcastle (N.S.W.) to
Auckland in nine days; and from, Mel-
bourne to Auckland in 12 days. Last July
she put all her clothes on and didn’t take
a stitch off during the trip from Melbourne
to Auckland, and got there -in seven days
I<> hours. Later she romped from New-
castle to Kaipara in six days six hours, and
knocked out her own previous record by 12
hours.
From the Oldest Inhabitant:—
The fire which destroyed the McPhillamy home at
Orton Park (N.S.W.) opens up matters of some in-
terest in our brief history. First; as to how Orton
Park came to be so named. In the early ’3o’s the
land belonged to Mr. William Lane, a devoted Metho-
dist. In October, 1832, the Rev. Joseph Orton, a
minister of , that creed, set out on a .tour- from Sydney,
accompanied by no less than Samuel Terry, the
“Botany Bay Rothschild.” Their itinerary included
Parramatta, Prospect Hill, Mount Pleasant (Samuel
Terry’s estate), Castlercagh, Emu Ferry, Lapstone
Hill and Tarana. After leaving Tarana, accompanied
now by Mr. Lane, “a member of our society,” they
reached O’Connell Plains; thence went on to
Bathurst, where Mr. Lane decided to build a chapel
and a house upon land he held on the Vale-road, and
name it Orton Park, after the parson. This he did.
The Mr. Smith with whom they stayed at O’Connell
Plains, was then managing for Parson Marsden, who
had land there. After a time, Smith started for
himself, at Campbell’s River. He had married, a
Mrs. McPhillamy, who had. three ..stalwart sons ; and
one daughter, to whom he bequeathed his property.
These sons : extended their lands until they com-
manded many thousands of acres. Charles Sihith
McPhillamy owned Orton Park, and was the last of
the three boys to die. Robert,"the'eldest, had' Ger-
man's Hill, and John, who represented West Mac-
quarie in the third Parliament, had Mount , Tamar.
The sons of Charles and John are very wealthy and
very modest with their wealth.
“Harrison O.” ' tells of how. he was led
astray :■ —•
1 have _ just paid my second visit to Melbourne’s
new dancing hall at St. liilda, the granting of whose
license moved the Wowser to launch dark prophecies
of evil. This Palais de DS.nse (it was the name
that frightened Brother Wowser) would become the
haunt of male sensualists and ladies of ridiculously
easy virtue, the goings-on would bring a blush to the
chin of the most experienced reprobate, and the
atmosphere of Melbourne’s New Jerusalem would' be
permanently contaminated. Alas! how groundless
were the forebodings! As a sinner of many years’
standing I write the new venture down a failure.
The male over the age of 18 whom it wouldn’t bore
would be thrilled by a smile from the gold-filled
teeth of a superannuated barmaid or a touch on the
hand from a middle-aged waitress. The Palais de
Danse has an excellent floor and the music is first-
rate, but the facts that (a) there are no facilities
for “sitting out,” (6) the place is'ripen on three
sid* and swept by a sea breeze, which is chilly on
all but the hottest nights, (e) the charms of bare
shoulders and scented flesh-associated with the aver-
age ballroom are missing, and (d) dancers ;a re sub-
ject to the glare of from 200 to 400 eyes owned by
people who, have paid merely to look on —these facts,
I say, rob the place of all attractiveness for those
who look on dancing, as anything except: a mere
physical exercise. Only two-steps'and -waltzes figured
on the programmes on the two occasions I attended,
and these innocuous measures were gone through with
the solemnity -of a religious; rite. The person who
would exceed the speed limit in such an atmosphere
would be so excitable that-he would find it necessary
for his soul’s good to avoid jehoir practice, Scotch
landladies, tennis teas, .meetings- of the Dlelbourne
Marine Board and such-like stimulants. For myself,
I will remember it against the Wowser that, by the
grossest misrepresentation, he caused me to yawn my
way through two of the most depressing evenings of
a by-no-means highly-colored existence.
“See Vee” : The ease with which the just-
recovered “Mona Lisa” was lifted makes me
think the Melb. National Gallery may be
found to be some items short some day. A
few weeks .ago I discovered a fine little
bronze (“Half-draped female”: A Briitt)
stowed away in ; a window recess in the
Museum. I introduced a friend to my find,
and lie, having a passion for “effects,” moved
the little lady from her pedestal and left
her in a corner of the window. On going
back four days later I found the interference
had passed unnoticed. Anywrny, she was
still in the corner. In the catalogue of 1908
this fisrur.e is said to have cost £55 in 18S9,
but in the latest catalogue (1911) I can’t
find a mention of it. Excepting the little
“Archer” there is no figure of the kind in the
Gallery to compare with it, and for general
interest it might easily take the place of
Gilbert’s St. Elizabeth in the Stawell Gal-
lery. There is also a bronze “Minerva”
pushed away behind a case of Japanese
dolls, but it is impossible to see who it is by,
and there is no information in the catalogue.
It would be interesting to know how much
stuff is uncatalogued. In any case, I advise
all but Wowsers to have a look at Briitt’s
figure. A Wowser might “lift” her, and I
don t want that, for I like to call on the
little lady occasionally,


NOW SHOWING: the Finest Range of SUITINGS in Australia.
Thousands of New Patterns direct from the English, Scotch, Irish and Australian Looms await your selection. The variety is great—the
quality unquestionable-the value unprecedented. Our Pure Wool Real Indigo Serges are the Finest of the World's Productions.
Fill in the Coupon
at once for our
most extensive
range Of patterns
and new Fashion
Book, including
our patent correct
Measure Chart
and Tape com•
plete all FREE.
THE
BEST
VALUE
1M THE
WORLD.
London Tailored Suits
EVERY SUIT
WE
GUARANTEE
SO 65
Specially and Carefully Tailored to your order
The Greatest Tailoring Offer of the Age.
To advertise our Wonderful Value in LONDON
TAILORING, to every man in Australia we are
PRESENTING
Extra Trousers
FREE
WITH ALE LONDON ORDER SUITS.
You have unlimited choice of Fabrics. Shall we
forward you our patterns and self*measuring chart?
Every London Tailored Suit (Free Trousers included)
carries a Guarantee of money refunded if there is
the slightest cause for dissatisfaction.
We send our
London Tailored Suits
all over the World.
i,
mm
..
,
K
%
*v v«J&
v^VKiisK
i)n«it
•CV-’ ,«s
■V,
Z3,v«Cv. St —«R-Ok» v«f
4 4
* ws>
ms *
v ws s; r'. *•*
EH
: : ; :. '
I ;
131
! !
JR*.!
fv
? ;
ws£j
>
fairs’'
m
umjiilJH.*
«
"aa
04
m
‘
B'*
WmmMM
I
) ijaii {yfiitt U a |g
l.
II
■
■ : U:
I
/ f
1
111
TWW
LUO
o
.5 li
m
-
Caution.
BEWARE OF FALSE REPRESENTATIONS. We have NO Agents or Travellers No
connection with any other Stores
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS TO THE
We Pay Carriage
on all
Order Suits
throughout the
Commonwealth.
V
wm§.
Opr. Gr.P.O.
MELBOURNE.
A
*9
/ -V.
00° ,<>%_<s•
-©*
!*
O* CS“
■O • 's?' (S' , x •
o
*
% *:
.o
o
C/
4
.4
o
r
*
*
°^iyy
4^?
<° x~»-'o*
S’ / 0^
*Vk^ o<v
rtQ
v/ -\r *?* •
?, oS O O
v°Vsft>° t
/


Shipping;.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
*tCOMMONW EADTH
*tBERRIMA..
*tGEELONG
*BENALLA
Daylight
Noon
Daylight
i'Noon
♦Twin Screw. All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy,
tintending passengers will need to make immediate
application for berths.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS,
v ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £IS & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office : 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Coni mission ers—
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
DEPOSIT YOBH SURPLUS MONEY
in this Bank, where it will earn INTEREST
at 31% on the first £3OO, and 3% on the
excess to £5OO, and be REPAYABLE ON
DEMAND when you require it.
MONEY TO LEND ON MORTGAGE
at Low Interest to Farmers and Settlers and
on Approved City and Suburban Freeholds.
This Bank has No Agencies at Post Offices.
Represented in the State by 118 Branches
and over 500 Agencies.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £382,500.
Directors: lion. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
Hon. ROBERT PHILP, M.L.A. ; Hon. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 242 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Sank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. ..£2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (30th June, 1913) ..£1,195,398
RESERVE FUND £25,000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly. Esq., LL.D. ; Ciias. 11.
Myles, Esq. ; Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq. ; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq. : Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Colonial [fjutual [ife
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts. C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C.. M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretan
Shipping.
"IVr ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD, N.D.L.
A.% IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS,
TO COLOMBO, SUEZ, NAPLES, GENOA, ALGIERS,
SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP. AND BREMEN.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Installation.
All Steamers fitted with Laundry.
FARES TO LONDON: 1., £7l/10/-: 11., £10;
111.. £l5 to £l9. RETURN: 1., £lO7/5/-; 11.,
£6O; 111/, £3O/12/- to £37/16/
LOIIMANN and CO., General Agents, 7 Bridge-st.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
*The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“ Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
’Triple Screw Turbine. tThird-Class Only.
Steamers Fitted with Wireless.
SALOON: FARES— Third-class.
London, from £45. £l6 to £2O.
Capetown and Durban, from £3O £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line,
£llO (First-class both ways) ; £B2 (.Second-class
Orient). Saloon Return and Stop-over Tickets inter-
changeable with Holt’s Blue Funnel Line. Third-
Class Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable
with P. & O. Branch Service.
ROUND-THE-WORLD TICKETS from £122/10/-.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, kc., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD. Agents in Australia
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting:)
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
♦CAIRNS
(♦Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Jan. 17
OOOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Jan. 21
Leaves Sydney Jan. 24
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Jan. 28
Leaves Sydney Jan. 31
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports).
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Jan. 17
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Jan. 24
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
ISLAND TOURS
TO PAPUA
(via the Queensland Coast.)
A Charming Combination
Tour.
NEW STEAMER :
“ Morinda,”
JANUARY 27.
Brisbane, Cairns, Port
Moresby, Samarai and Wood-
lark Island.
£.20.
sd
TO THE NEW HEBRIDES
(via Lord Howe and Norfolk
Islands).
53 DAYS’ TRIP.
S.S. “ Makambo,”
JANUARY 31.
Making about 70 Calls at
Mission and Trading Stations
during the Voyage.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., Head Office, SYDNEY.
bank of new south wales.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
fsd
£3,500,000
£2,350,000
£3,500,000
£9.350.000
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand McLaurin, lit., M.L.C.
The Hon. James T. Walker
The lion. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Alfred George Milson, Esq.; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St.. Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedla St., E.C.
336 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-Up ..£1,750,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,630,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,130,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon H. Moses. M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 10 Birclxin-Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton ; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of fleui Z ealand -
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. • • • • £1,000,000
Preference Shares • • • • • 500,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,000,000) Paid-
up .. 500,000
Uncalled Capital 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-Up .. .. .. ..£538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders. . . . 159,054
Reserve Fund .(invested in Govt. Stock).. 76,500
£773.861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. 1
Gen.‘Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price 6d.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers, 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY-
The through trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE,
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply—44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S HAR-
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d. .
For Guide and all particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
a- a
L&w Points
/nventorj
CAN I OBTAIN A PATENT?
The quickest way to ascertain
this, WITHOUT EXPENSE, is
to write to me describing your invention, enclosing
a small sketch where necessary. Nicety of drawing
is not essential; all that is necessary at first is to
give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is
patent-able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions
for further procedure;
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice
or information regarding Patent matters are cordi-
ally invited to consult me personally or by letter. In
all cases a careful consideration of their plans, an
honest opinion, and a prompt reply may be
expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WANDILLA(77BS
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
Jap. 17 and Feb. 14w
T.S.S. WARILDA (7713
tons), Wednesday,
Feb. 4 and March 4.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
MARLOO, Jan. 17.
•GRANTALA, Jan. 24.
INNAMINGKA, Jan. 31.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
*New triple-screw steamer, fitted with cabfns-de-
luxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
All Steamers fitted witli Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars a'nd pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
ADELAIDE TO LONDON IN 34 DAYS
(VIA SUEZ CANAL).
T.S.S. ARGYLLSHIRE.
12,500 Tons.
BRISBANE
SYDNEY. .
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
CAPTAIN. CHICKEN.
. . JANUARY 28, 1914
. . FEBRUARY 4, 1914
. . FEBRUARY 10, 1914
. . FEBRUARY 14, 1914
Saloon. Third-Class.
Fares to London: £4O to £45. £l6/16/- to £lB/18/-
Saloon fares from Brisbane, £2 extra.
Third-Class, £l/1/- extra.
The Saloon accommodation consists of two-berth
and family cabins on the Upper Deck Amidships,
including Lounge and Smoke Room.
Third-Class accommodation situated almost Amid-
ships, consisting of two- and four-berth Cabins. Third-
Class passengers supplied with fresh provisions from
cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric Light throughout. Return- and Round-
Trip Tickets issued via Cape and/or Suez Route.
Prepaid passages arranged. Fitted with Wireless
Telegraphy.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply
TURNBULL MARTIN & CO., Brisbane.
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney.
McILWRAITII, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO LTD., Hobart.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“IJlimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH ii ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER IIMITER),
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
: : THE NEW ::
AUSTRALIAN NIB
GOLDEN WATTLE
DOES NOT BREAK OR CORRODE, AND
WRITES WITHOUT HARSHNESS AND
SCRATCHING. IT HELPS TO FORM
THE LETTERS NEATLY, SO AS TO GIVE
CHARACTER TO THE WRITING. LADIES
LlfcE IT FOR ITS SILKEN SMOOTHNESS.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
521 FLINDERS LANE
s MELBOURNE :


Hotels, &c.
US
■ ' l
'EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 13/- per day.
ANDUPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
tlie most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING lIALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is giyen, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Business Notices,
\
gv;
■uimiiimiii"
'*•■111111'
v"
•SUL.
'Mill'
X
imiiiliipl
iin <m
f 'hiiillii;" 11
IifHIIIHIIIf
--DOBS -
KILL COCKROACHES
PROCURABLE FROM:—
George Gough & Son, Ltd., Bris-
bane.
H. H. Groth & Co., Sydney.
London Pharmacy, Ipswich, Q’land
G. 11. Smith, Townsville, „
Lomas & Co., Warwick, ~
Jack & Co., Dalby, ~
Bryant & McLean, Roma, ~
E. S. Hale, Bundaberg, ~
Newbery & Shambler, Gympie, ~
Peak & Co., Toowoomba, ~
Williams, Ltd., Rockhampton, ~
Lamberts, Ltd., Mackay, ~
Alex. Campbell & Sons,
Maryborough, ~
And all reliable Storekeepers throughout
Australasia.
Agents wanted in West & South Australia.
Write to GOUGH’S, BRISBANE.
THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE—
THE FAMOUS
Sche bier Carburetter
The best Carburetter for ALL PETROL ENCINES
—either Laud or Marine, Stationary or Moving:.
The Schebler makes your engine develop
greater horse-power for a less consumption
of fuel.
The Schebler holds many world’s records.
Booklet and all information free.
Correspondence in vited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for Australia.
fsd
RYDER*
“SEEDS
FLOWERS & VEGETABLES
IN PENNY PACKETS'
The best English Flower and Vege-
table Seeds are supplied by the world-
renowned seed specialists, Ryder &
Son, St. Albans, England.
WRITE FOR FREE CATALOGUE (POST FREE).
Send for it to-day.
RYDER & SOS, Ltd., SP SSU
Holywell Hill, St Albans, Eng.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
f
Bank of HustvaHa
SYDNEY
Branches are open for the transaction of GENERAL BANKING BUSINESS at
New South Wales —Sydney. Federal Capital —Canberra. Victoria- —Melbourne.
Queensland —Brisbane, Rockhampton, and Townsville. South Australia —Adelaide.
Western Australia —Perth. Tasmania —Hobart. And at 36-38 NEW BROAD ST., London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on,- foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of credit and circular notes issued to any part of the world. Bills negotiated or
forwarded for collection. Banking and Exchange business of every description transacted within
the Commonwealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
Branches are open at 3 Moore Street. Sydney; 317 Collins Street. Melbourne; Queen Street,
Brisbane; Royal Exchange. 96 King William Street, Adelaide; St. George’s Terrace,
Perth; Elizabeth Street. Hobart; and Canberra (Federal Capital); and 1900 Agencies at
Post Offices which issue Money Orders in the Australian Commonwealth and Papua,
from 9 a.in. to 5 p.m. daily, and noon Saturday l .
All Branch Offices are open for deposits and withdrawals on Friday, 7 to 9 p.m.
Withdrawals on demand may be effected at any office within the Commonwealth.
I/- Minimum Deposit. 3 % Kate of Interest on all Deposits up to £3OO.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. August, 1913. DENISON MILLER, Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting- Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars,
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TKOEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESXON, Local Director.
ml
“I’m an Old Hand
at the Game
And you can take it from me that
Danks’ is the place for the Tools' in
our Line. You get the Most Reliable
Makes, the Most Up-to-date Ideas, and
you don’t have' to pay too much for
them. I believe in the Best, and
Always Get Satisfaction in going
there.”
SO SAYS THE ENGINEER.
HERE’S A LINE OR TWO.
ELECTRICIANS’ INSULATED PLIERS.. 27-
ELECTRICIANS’ INSULATED SCREW-
DRIVERS 1/4
TAPE MEASURES, in case, 66ft., from 1/6
EXTENSION HACK SAWS.
STOCKS AND DIES FROM BEST MAKERS.
FILES FOR SHARPENING METAL-CUTTING
SAWS.
WRENCHES FOR ALL PURPOSES.
TINMAN’S STAKES AND BICK IRONS.
EMERY WHEELS, BRASS FITTINGS, TUBE AND PIPE OF ALL KINDS, etc., etc.
SOME BARGAINS IN LATHES.
John Danks & Son Propty., Ltd.,
324 Pitt Street, near Liverpool Street f Sydney.
Also at 391 Bourke Street, Melbourne .
99
Socks and
Stockings.
When you are buying Socks and Stockings, look for
the name on the foot. If it isn’t there
don’t have them, they are not what you require.
For no other hose have the same combination of good qualities
that "<fa&Qll£ possess. All-Australasian-wool, perfectly
knitted, rendered absolutely unshrinkable and as soft
as silk by the "JfcMCVl'i process—those are the qualities you
want in your hose. "9a6<m£ cost
no more than any other kind, so 7 that
it costs you nothing to have the best.
Socks and Stockings are made in
■it**' l a ll styles and prices for men,
ladies and children. If your dealer does
not stock them, insist upon his getting them
for you.
In case of difficulty, write
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
Aa3B
s\ss?
In great demand.
“ I am i?i greater demand than ever this
year, for my fame has spread, and my name
is now a household word in every land.
My friends say that I never tire them. I
am so light and well balanced that we
glide along together almost ivithout effortl’
The Onoto is the pen to possess, because
it is always ready to write smoothly and
evenly as soon as the nib touches the
paper; because the ink flow can be cut
off completely- the Onoto becoming a 1
sealed tube in the pocket; and because
it fills itself so quickly and easily from
any ink supply.
w •
vuLkA^
~ ft i
JJ?AiHjuzu
II
%
1
Onoto
The pen to possess.
Price 12/- and upwards of all Stationers,
Jewellers, and Stores. Booklet about the
Onoto Pen free on application to THOS.
DE LA RUE & CO., Ltd., 381 Bunhill
Row, London, E.C., or the Australasian
Representatives Norman Baker and
| Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
Ask for ONOTO INK—
Best for all Pens.
Deaf People
Hear Whispers
With Common-Sense Ear Drums—
“ Wireless ’Phones for the Ears.”
For twenty years the Common-Sense
Ear Drums have been giving good hear-
ing to hundreds of thousands of deaf
people. Every condition of deafness or
defective hearing is being
helped and cured, such as
Catarrhal Deafness, Relaxed
or Sunken Drums, Thickened
Drums, Roaring and Hissing
Sounds, Perforated or Parti-
ally Destroyed Drums, Drums
wholly Destroyed, Discharge
from Ears. No matter how
long standing the case may
be, there is hope of good hear-
ing for all the afflicted deaf.
The Common-Sense Ear Drums are made of soft,
sensitised material, comfortable and safe to
wear. They are out of sight when worn, and
easily adjusted by wearer.
Good hearing brings cheerfulness, comfort and
sunshine into the life of the lonely deaf. The
total cost is £1 —why not order to-day?
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Colltns Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pdir of
Wilson Common-Sense Ear Drums, an Inserter
and a Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name ..
Address
NOTE. —Send Money Order or Postal Note.
If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must
register it.
3F°
THE DRUM
<N POSITION
sdf
Abbey Shoes
are the choice of men wh want the
best. They are shoes that are sty-
lish, well made, comfortable, cor-
rect fitting and long wearing. If
you look for the foregoing qualities
in your footwear, then Abbey Shoes
should be your choice.
The Boot illustrated is a Patent
Golosh Bal., Dull Calf Leg, Perfor-
ated Golosh, 27/6 and 30/-
Also in Tan Willow Calf, 22/6,
25/- and 27/6.
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Write for Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard=
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
/
"ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in*
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.


HOW TO MAKE YOUR HAIR
BEAUTIFUL.
TEN MINUTES’ HOME TREATMENT
WORKS WONDERS, STOPS FALLING
lIAIR, ITCHING SCALP AND
DANDRUFF, AND MAKES THE
HAIR SOFT. BRILLIANT,
LUSTROUS AND
FLUFFY.
Better than all the so-called “Hair Tonics”
in the world is a simple, old-fashioned home
recipe consisting of plain Bay Rum, Lavona
de Composee, and a little Menthol Crystals.
These thrCe, mixed at home in a few min-
utes, work wonders with any scalp. Try it
just one night and see. Get from your
druggist loz. Lavona de Composee, 3oz. Bay
Rum and Jdr. Menthol Crystals. Dissolve
the Crystals in the Bay Rum and pour in
a 4oz. bottle. Then add the Lavona, shake
well and let it stand for an hour before
using. Apply it by putting a little of the
mixture on a soft cloth. Draw this cloth
slowly through the hair, taking just one
small strand at ■ a time. This cleanses the
hair and scalp of dirt, dust and excessive oil,
and makes the hair delightfully soft, lus-
trous and fluffy. To stop the hair from fall-
ing and to make it grow again rub the lotion
briskly into the scalp with the finger tips.
Apply night and morning. A few days’ use
and you cannot find a single loose or strag-
gling hair. They will be locked on your
scalp as tight as a vyce. Dandruff will dis-
appear and itching cease. In ten days you
will find fine, downy, new hairs sprouting up
all over your scalp, and this new hair will
grow with Avonderful rapidity.
Any chemist can prepare the above for
you. The prescription is very inexpensive
and we know of nothing so effective and cer-
tain in its results.*
“A Journalist and Two Bears” is the largest
shilling’s worth of literature ever put on the Aus-
tralian market. It consists of 240 pages, crammed
tull of the best reading ever published in Australia.
So, when it was plumped down on the counter of one
Australian bookseller the good man snorted:
“Good Lord, who’s going to pay Is. for
our little, 150-page pamphlets when they can
get this swag for the” same money? These fellows
aren’t playing the game! ” And so it is. Although
this gentle bookseller has the book on hand
if it is asked for, it is out of sight
Don’t be put off a gpod thing by these tricks, and
if the bookseller can’t find the book, send direct to
the publishers, The Platypus Press, 117 Bathurst-
street Sydney. Post free, in paper covers, Is. 3d.;
and green cloth, 3s, 6d,*
A Hot Weather Trouble Avoided
TRUMILK (SKIM)
POWDER.
Place Powder on top cold water and beat with Egg Whisk for a minute. Result —
beautiful milk free from germs, suitable for all purposes.
NO MILK GOING SOUR. NO ICE NEEDED.
Ask your grocer for a small tin.
Queensland Agents: WEBSTET & CO. LTD., Mary Street, Brisbane.
New South Wales Agents: JONES & CO. LTD., Sussex Street, Sydney.
IN
BANANA LAND
“G. Back’s” offensive story:—
The meetings of Toowoomba’s city fathers have
become the pride and joy of the place, which boasts
of more culture than most. The best of a grand
series came off the other day, when the introduction
of electric light was on the notice paper. Unlike
Parliament, Toowoomba council doesn’t open its
scraps with prayer—it jumps straight into profanity.
This particular scrap had scarce commenced —-
“ liar !”....“ sneak !!”... .“Darwin’s
link!” had been barely uttered—when the
whole population, abandoning its midday sandwich,
rose as one ratepayer, and rushed into the street
shouting, “They’re at it! They’re at it! /” The
council stadium was soon overflowing. And into this
seething, perspiring audience squeezed a bellicose rate-
payer with a hot cup of tea in one hand and the
remnant of some food in the other. “Give it tae
th’ beggar!” he shouted when Alderman Blank
sparred up to the Mayor—-“l’d like tae go doon [here
he took a sup at the tea] and have a crack at him,
too ! ”
“Sea Lawyer”: Bananaland’s Vice-Ad-
miralty Court will probably have a fair-sized
job on hand when it is handed the claim of
the Japanese s.s. Inaho Maru for salvaging
the Dutch mail steamer Tasman, which re-
cently settled on some property at Bramble
Cay, Torres Straits. The ship and cargo
were worth anything up to £250,000. (The
passengers and crew were a mere matter of
detail.) In response to urgent wireless mes-
sages sent to Thursday Island for help, there
were two steamers available —the Japs.,
Kumano Maru and Inaho Maru. The for-
mer was a mail steamer bound for Sydney.
Believing that the lives of the people on
the Tasman were in danger, the pilot in
charge volunteered to transfer to the tramp
Inaho Maru and steer her to Bramble Cay,
150 miles off. His offer was accepted, and
he took the Jap. in ballast trim through a
gale of .wind and the eternal reefs and
shoals within 24 hours. That was making
only six knots, which shows what the
weather was like. Under the pilot’s orders,
the cripple on the reef, with 10ft. of water in
the hold, was towed off practically unhurt
on a spring tide. If that tide had been
missed the Dutchman would most likely have
had to wait until the next springs, about two
weeks ahead, with every promise of the
monsoonal weather setting in and driving
her up the reef. Seeing the value of the ser-
vices rendered, and of the property saved it
is easy to conjecture that the owners of the
Jap. will scoff at the idea of accepting
£lOOO. which is said to have been the price
which induced the Inaho Maru to Dave har-
bor. Indeed, £lOOO would be a ridiculous
sum for the owners to accept. But I reckon
it wouldn’t be an unreasonable sum to pay
the Australian pilot, without whom nothing
could have been done.
Bananaland’s pineapple industry is look-
ing up. During the year just ended 158,096
cases were exported to the South, 101,052 of
them to Sydney. Latterly a number of fac-
tories have also gone in for tinning the
fruit and candying it, though the ’Murkan
candied article has got a deplorable start on
the Australian market.
“H. 1.0.”: Judge McNaughton, of Queens-
land’s District Court, had a roaring practice
on the Northern Bar before he went on the
Bench. The North Queensland circuit was
a happy band of brother-sharks, and the
rest of the brethren looked forward to plea-
sant days with their confrere when he “went
aloft.” At the very first criminal sessions,
however, his Honor’s criticisms re the con-
duct of cases by his one-time friends were as
scathing as they were unexpected. The
NASTY.
HE (sweetly): a fly good woman! Can I sell you any cotton, tape, buttons”
SHE (very sourly): “Don't you ‘good woman’ me! Go away; I never buy off any
common men at the door."
HE (very sweetly): “Ahem! Madam, can't I sell you any false hair pads, cures for
drunkenness, bust developers or beauty aids?"
Crown Prosecutor, a pal of very long stand-
ing, almost sat down in tears. In Brisbane,
McNaughton, if he lias any luck, should
break the tradition which forbids a D.C.
Judge’s promotion to the Bench of the
Queensland Supreme Court. He is a sound
lawyer, and as an abbreviator of useless
eloquence he has few equals. When anybody
even attempts, to mention that the far-out
dog-stealer “has his bright home in the set-
ting sun” Judge McNaughton gets Pnere
early with a remark to the effect that the
sunset has no direct bearing on the dog.
Queensland’s Acting-Premier, produce-
agent Barnes, was recently called in by a
Darling Downs show committee to judge the
“essays.” Subject: “The Land.” One of
the competitors was the 10-year-old daughter
of a well-known writer; and when the
“Bishop” arrived at her essay, he took it up
and frowned on this introduction: —
Adam and Eve were the first people to go on the
land—and the first to get off it. The Devil, who went
between them and distributed their fruit and brought
trouble and tribulation to them, was the first middle-
man. Even to this day, my father says, middlemen
are proud of their origin ; and now that they are in
power he thinks it won’t be long before we will have
another school holiday, which will be called Devil’s
Day.
That effort didn’t get the prize.
It’s worth while being in top-notch nick
and enjoy the best that’s going—to have a
royal time all the time. That’s why wise
participators adhere strictly but moderately
to King George IV. top-notch Whisky.*
The 58th annual issue of Sands and McDougall’s
Directory is the fattest and most informative volume
of the series up to date. What used to be the
“Melbourne” Directory is now an all-Victoria matter
of 3000 pages. And to its other solid pretensions
the Sands and Mac. book adds the claim that it is
“the only Victorian work of its kind printed and
published .on the spot.” Applicants who were not
sufficiently early to get the Directory for a guinea
can procure it for 25s., and have good value for
their money.
“H. 1.0.”: Randolph Bedford (B. 1/1/T4)
is utterly wrong in saying that in making his
money James Tyson never hurt anybody. As
a mortgagee—and he was in his time the
mortgagee of Eastern Australia —Tyson could
allow the most rapacious shent-per-shent man
a stone and a long start. Many of his best
properties fell into his hands because he
never gave an instant’s “law” beyond the
letter of his bond, as financial institutions
rarely fail to do if there is a prospect of re-
payment. When he lent money on mortgage
he almost invariably did so in the sure and
certain hope of a glorious foreclosure. He
never spent one penny more on improvements
than he could possibly avoid. Many a line
property which came into his hands was
allowed to run to seed and depreciate because
of his parsimony. He never bought expen-
sive stud stock under any circumstances;
and, as for trying to raise the standard of
his beasts —well, he looked on anyone who
did so as a lunatic. In this regard men like
McCaugliey and others have done more for
Australia than' a dozen Tysons. Anything
was good enough for him, so long as it
returned a profit. His employees’ wages he
diminished to bedrock. He certainly advo-
cated the cutting-up of big estates. He
owned a huge acreage of freehold on the
Downs, and a Subdivision Act would have
started earlier the rush which made Felton
and other big freeholds realise, in after years,
far more than the amounts at which Tyson
and others of his sort had acquired them
originally. Of all men he was the most self-
centred and egotistical. He was eternally
posing. His tieless collar, his elastic-sided
boots, etc., were all part of the make-up. He
professed an arrogant impatience with those
who did not conform to his peculiar sump-
tuary laws, but he ,was everlastingly looking
out of the corner of his eye to see how the
world was taking it all. And he died as he
lived, trusting no one, not even his relatives,
whom he did nothing in life to aid. Bedford
sees evidence of the old man’s greatness in
his dying alone and in the dark. To me, it
savors more of the finish of some savage
old animal, desolate and outcast from his
fellows.
Cactus.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dusty sage-green the cactus makes a hedge,
And here and there betwixt the palisade
Gleams the smooth shining of the desert’s
edge
Clouds, soft as smoke, a single palm-tree’s
shade....
Last night the Spring wind from the coast
hills blew,
And where the fleshy leaf hangs limp and
sick
To-day a sulphur flower has broken through—
A wavering flame upon an oily wick.
Above the sulphur flower a sulphur moth
With envious wings each fluted petal spans.
Softly the, blossom moves, as somewhat loth
To seem less active than those yellow fans.
Beneath the cactus where the sand is
grooved
By the bright scales of slipping serpent
things
Succeeding scorpion pairs have fought and
loved,
Keeping the law of all the lawless Springs.
In the pent silence at the desert’s edge
Where the dry winds among the palm
scythes moan,
That sulphur blossom lights above the hedge
Its humble taper to a God Unknown... .
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, January 10, 1914.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Up till this week the quickest way to
grill a steak was to place it on a commercial
traveller’s smoking-room anecdote; now, the
plain, unadulterated atmosphere is more
rapid. In the midst of the melting condi-
tions, J. G. Bice, Chief Secretary of South
Australia, arrived, and was hurriedly intro-
duced to the ice-cliest at Government House.
Since then he has used no other.
Our only other visitors of semi-import-
ance were the American boys, who arrived
by the Empire yesterday. They went to the
Y.M.C.A., where his Ex. and Lady Mac-
gregor, U.S.A. Consular-Agent Collins and
others alternately bored them with stale
remarks, and cheered them with fresh food.
In retaliation, the youthful Uncle Sams gave
a concert in the Centennial Hall. They got
clear by the Empire, which departed for
Manila to-day.
Everybody who is anybody fled from this
hamlet, and spent New Year among the cool
peaks of Toowoomba. Marjorie Byram, the
handsome daughter of the solicitor who
happens to be her father, made her official
social appearance at the Race Ball, where a
choice assortment of last year’s buds snared
the dancing men, to the annoyance of the
Downs’ damsels.
Pretty Herries Godsall. of Toowoomba,
weds on Wednesday one Willis, of the Union
Bank, at Warracknabeal (Vic.). In cele-
bration, nearly all her home population has
risen as one woman and offered her tea and
cakes. Other weddings of the near future
are between Doris Webster, step-daughter
of the veteran W. R. O. Hill, and a Maori-
lander named Hunter (who has a station
near Charleville); also and likewise between
Cecilia Beirne, the dainty second daughter
of the T. C. Beirnes, and Douglas, M.L.A.
Folkestone, built some 50 years ago, the
residence of Mrs. Perry, sen., was burnt to
the ground on Wednesday afternoon. The
fire-brigades toiled manfully, but ineffec-
tually, owing to insufficient water pressure.
Almost all the lovely pictures, china, etc.,
were lost. Incidentally, several of the fire-
men were injured by falling sheets of iron.
There have been several fires here lately, and
in almost every case the wretched water
supply has hampered the fire-fighters. Whisky
consumers are requested to kindly take soda
with their weakness.
Artists Jack Sommers and J. P. Davies
held an exhibition of pictures this week.
Artistic and other people came as early as
they liked and stayed as long as they felt
inclined. Sommers’s work was, for the most
part, delightful scraps of Australian scenery.
His coloring is exauisite and the hush of the
bush seems to linger over some of the little
sunlit ’scapes he is showing. Davies paints
portraits (personal or typical). By way of
art, they are generally satisfactory.
The Devil has been giving Christian bro-
ther another wallop on his way to the
Wicket Gate. Yesterday a party of 25 mem-
bers of the Students’ Christian Union, after
a conference at Tweed Heads, loaded them-,
selves into a motor-’bus and proceeded to
One Tree Hill. Coming down the narrow
way, the brakes refused to act, and the
worldly driver, confronted by the Cliff of
Collision on the one side, the Precipice of
Oblivion on the other, chose the rock. About
half of the holy cargo was more or less seri-
ously damaged. Seven of the injured' hail
from Sydney.
The bank clerks have refused a Wa<*es
Board, by a two to one majority. Gentility
will out —of pocket.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE
Innisfail (which used to be Gerald ton)
has again topped the Queensland record for
rainfall. During 1913 the tropic town
sucked in 14ft. of wet, while Cooktown came
a bad second with 9ft. Southern towns were
content to measure their modest lot in
inches. The only ugly feature about Innis-
fail’s 1913 record is that it is given this
time in feet, whereas yards was the standard
in previous years. It looks like degeneracy.
“Equali,” from the place where the experi-
ments were made
A great deal is being written about “Prickly
Pear’’ and Roberts’s experiments at Dulacca; but
we are not boiling over with excitement at the
results so far. The big trouble is that the pear
shoots out again after the gas has been used on it ;
and while that means more work to give it the
final knock-out it is doubtful whether the potash
obtained from the vegetable will produce the coin to
pay for the extra labor. Roberts’s company is com-
posed of wealthy men, and what might be done
successfully by them on a huge scale is absolutely
out of the question where the small selector is con-
cerned. The engine alone will cost £lOO. Then
the clearing, including wages, will run to 15s. per
acre (a few months ago Roberts put the cost at Os.
per acre, and as it has got into the habit of growing
it probably won’t stick at 15s ). Finally the land
has to be ploughed to prevent the pear from growing
again, and it is doubtful if one ploughing will do
it. Certainly the curse is showing its whiskers all
over the few acres which Robert “cleared” as an
experiment, and in that case it .doesn’t look as if
rooting-up will see the end of it.


&
—.C*“
V
■)
«MMW»
k
\
* : :
stmm
mimi
\
/ '• ■.
-
m
•Km
ir\
f**
Z
?** / r “U3'i
V-
Continental
OVCKIZf TYPES
TYRE TO FIT 815/105 Rim
875/105 „
820/120 „
880/120 „
920/120 „
895/135 „
935/135 „
Motorists desirous of having larger tyres fitted to their standard rims without going to the
expense of, or being inconvenienced by, the re-building of their wheels, cannot do better than
fit CONTINENTAL “OVERSIZE” TYRES. The many advantages of “Oversizes”
has become apparent to thousands of Australian Motorists, who recognise that the increased
air capacity must necessarily add to the tyre mileage and incidentally reduce vibration, and
—most important of all—a big Decrease in their Tyre Bill.-
Particulars and Price List on Application.
THE CONTINENTAL C. S 6. ROBBER CO. PTY. LTD.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Launceston, Auckland & Christchurch, N.Z
sd


To build up
m weakness
To make you well and keep
you well —this is the work
of SCOTT’S Emulsion. In
cases of
AN/EMIA
WASTING
DEBILITY
RICKETS
SCOTT’S Emulsion has no equal for
bringing back the energy, strength
and vigour of glorious health. Still
the best at all ages of life —this great
remedy has many imitators but no
equal. Therefore, see the trade mark
On the package and be sure of genuine
scons
Emulsion
TRADE
v~.
A
/
MARK
None genuine without it
jlpolhnans
Animal filling at the Apollinaris Spring
Year 1901 - • - 27,000,000 Bottles
Year 1911 - - - 37,000,000 Bottles
‘‘the aUEEN OF TABLE WATERS”
Lactobacilline
is prepared under the authority and scientific control
of
PROFESSOR METCHNIKOFF,
the famous scientist whose discoveries have revolu-
tionised the art of medicine. By its uses the putre-
factive bacilli in the intestinal tract are destroyed,
and a condition of
PERFECT HEALTH
is obtained.
liACTOBACILLINE
is prescribed and used by tens of thousands of
Physicians, and hundreds of thousands of patients
have testified to its value. Lactobacilline not only
cures, it prevents disease. Lactobacilline is prepared
in tablet form. Price, 5/6 per box, containing
eight cylinders of tablets. Each package bears the
words, “Le Ferment seul Fournisseur du Professur
Metohnikoff,” without which none are genuine.
It can be obtained through any chemist, or direct
from the DepBt Societe le Ferment, Australasia
Chambers, 406-414 Queen Street, Brisbane; or
Branches: Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney;
Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen Street, Melbourne;
Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff Street, Fremantle; Smee-
ton’s Buildings. Queen Street, Auckland. [1
fsd
Seven Days’
Free Trial
of one of these
fine French-
made Prisma-
tic Binoculars.
Magnify 8 in.
diameter,
large and
bright field of
view, clean,
crisp and sharp
focus, adjust-
able eyepiece (for odd eyes), also central focus.
Complete in leather case, £5 post free.
We are Australian agents for a large French
Optical House, and have contracted to take a
large number to secure special discounts, other-
wise this grade glass would cost £6/10/-.
Send full cash deposit of £5, and we will
send Binocular for seven days’ free trial. If
found unsatisfactory, and returned, full deposit
will be refunded.
A. P. GREENFIELD & CO., LTD.,
189-191 George Street, Brisbane.
APENTA
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Obtainable all Cbemlat*.
.Hot
A HOME FOR
MELBOURNE GUESTS.
Corner Flinders Street
and Spencer Street,
MELBOURNE,
Sir Charles Hotham Hotel
Hunyadi Janos
For an adjustment of the system, to dispel Kidney Trouble, medical men
from time immemorial have advocated the use of watery purging. One of
the best of all such agents is Hunyadi Janos Natural Aperient Water.
It ensures a prompt, copious, painless and easy evacuation of the intestines.
Hunyadi Janos neither depresses the patient nor sets up a state of after-
constipation, two points of the utmost importance in dealing with patients
suffering from kidney complaints, which sooner or later give rise to much
emaciation, anaemia, and general debility of body and mind.
The Famous NATURAL Aperient Water
Picture Showmen!
Start the New Year Well.
Investigate the merits of the
Silent Empire Biograph
. . .and ...
Kelvin Generating Sets.
We have just landed another ship-
ment of these two lines, and you
owe it as a duty to see them.
The Empire is the Bioscope of
to-day.
It is built of Steel and made to
wear.
KELVIN
GENERATING SET
The Kelvin Sets are unbeatable. They are direct coupled, compact, efficient
and dependable.
We have Special Booklets dealing with these Outfits. Please send for one.
JERDANS LTD.
393 George Street
- svnNFY.
I
V
BRACES
For Men who know
Quality, Comfort, Style
At first class shops,
31 ■
SHAVE EASY-WITH A “PLUM” RAZOR
* A.
<I W) ‘ / W'
You’ll Enjoy your Morning
Shave if you use the
“PLUM” RAZOR.
CRAIG & AITREN,
The blade of a “Plum” is made from the finest ringing steel —it is
perfectly tempered, and keeps a keen cutting edge indefinitely.
Thus you are assured of comfort and satisfaction when you use a
“Plum” Razor.
Order One To-day 10 6 POST FREE.
We guarantee to keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a very handsome
present. All the Above Post Free.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY■
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
HAVE REGARD TO YOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee Company
of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc.
AMPLE SECURITY ASSURED. TRUST ACCOUNTS ALWAYS OPEN TO INSPECTION.
ESTATES AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OF TRUSTEE WORK UNDERTAKEN. FULL DETAILS ON APPLICATION.
17 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [I
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
8.F.: On the whole, don’t feel inclined to
barrack for the suppression of the law which pro-
hibits auction sales after sundown. It was a silly
old law till early-closing came along. Now, how-
ever, if it were repealed, the hand-me-down clothes
shop and the brummy-watch den, shut as a shop and
a den at six o’clock, would start as auction-rooms as
soon as the clock struck, and hang on as long as
there was a drunk or a greenhorn to take down....
R. Lawson: If Jack collects L2O from the book-
maker he got 79 to 1. Also, incidentally, he got
more than he’s likely to get again until the Tote
arrives J.P.H.G.: The bones of that concern were
laid on the table in B. 18/12/’l3. .. .Canowindra:
Fight poem knoaked out in half a round.... Annie
II.: Sorry, but can’t make head or tail of your
grievance. ... Bill Adams: Advertisements, of course.
. ...Kingray: The simple and suflieient reason why
The Bulletin is a great deal more hostile to the
present N.S.W. Labor Government than many of the
Tory papers is that it is much more anxious for
political honesty and clean politics than they are.
When Holman and co. turned dog on their solemn
promises re economy and decentralisation, and sold
themselves to the interests of the big landlords of
Sydney, they suited the Tory papers down to the
ground. They didn’t suit this paper to any extent
worth mentioning.... Mercutio: “Suddenly we heard
a British cheer.” There we dropped your plain old
cannibal story with a thud and left it among the
bones of the victims Surf Shooter: The great
difficulty about proper supervision of beaches is
want of money. The bather who comes down from
Sydney may help the pubs and the trains and trams
and ferryboats, but he isn’t a great aid to the
municipal revenue of the marine township. Yet
when he drowns he somehow brings a lot of worry
and discredit on the seashore corporation.... Blank
Blank Blank: Sorry we can’t oblige by drawing a
creamy pony for you, but perhaps it will do if we
print your letter: “Draw a sketch of a bush race-
course the shape of an oval with a few posts and
trees on it, it is a piece of wind sweped and swampie
ground. I will try and draw you a sketch on the
other side. This was the new year day races at
—-- And the trot was one of the most barefaced
judging that ever was seen. We where all told before
we went out if any of our horses broke we had to
turn around. My poney troted right away from all
the rest and was winning by about one hundred
yards and she gave a hope in one hind leg and I
turned her around and won by 60 yards and the
judge gave it to the third horse whitch cantered
about 100 yards at the back of the course. It was
a creamie poney that got the prise. The judge is a
little old man with a very fearce moustache and his
name is Pat Brown. And he is a man when he has
any thing to do with sports of any kind thinks him-
self above all the rest. I think you will be able to
sketch from what I have told you and from the draw-
ing on the other side. Please don’t give him my
name if he wants it.”... .J.H.: An old track; and
the barrow you push along it hasn’t even a new
coat of paint to distinguish it from the barrows
that went before G.H.L. : Thanks; but it would
look too much like helping ourselves to the butter.
....Jug: We would hate to have your poem lost.
So here it is in all its beauty:—
Despite the pleading of her parents a Beautiful
Country Virgin eame to the City
seeking employment she also craved excitement mores
the Pity !
This engaging Female quite ignorant of vice
At once set about making herself look Nice
& Bad Companions persuaded her to paint her flee.
One day as she was returning from her toil
A little early on account of a rather painful (Boil)
A gentleman noticing she was tired
& perhaps also her pretty flee admir’d
Invited her to have some tea at a neighboring shop,
Forgetting the many warnings she had received
& never guessing she was about to be drugged and
deceived ?
the Innocent went along
& was plentifully regailed with tea and scone
Lo? when she got up to go her head swayed and
swum so
That the Gent, had to support her
Indeed ! she would have fell but he caughter
He hailed a passing car and the fainting Virgin
Was hurriedly placed inside and driven to a place of
Sin! , ,
When she regained conscientiousness she was gagged
and bound
&, a hideous Female warned her not to utter a sound,
Realising she was in the hands of the White Slave
Band
The Unfortunate girl prayed God to lend a hand
Her prayer was heard just then the house caught fire
& and the miscreants were balked of their desire!
A Brave Fireman venturing higher and higher
Was arrested by her shrieks and with the assistance
of another
Rescued her and restored her safe to the arms of her
Mother! !
Still even the most economical deceiver should supply
his victim with something more costly than tea and
scone Stanley H. R.: Your jokes are not so much
jokes as legends. The three-volume gag has no hope
these hurried . times. Common civility debars us
from saving what we think of the drawings....
H.W.8.: One likely item in the batch G.T.:
Commendable effort, but you’re getting rather close to
another writer.... Bellerive : A New Year item: —
WIIITEMEN’S VENGEANCE.
Onward to where some miners were camped
Rode a lad at a terrific rate
The blacks had murdered his parents dear
And he rode with the news of their fate
He dismounted among the miners tents
In the shade of the sheltering tree’s
And broke the news of the ghastly crime
And sank trembling upon his knee’s
Vengeance chimed the reckless men
With bullets we’ll seal their doom
We’ll raid their camp by the river side
To-night in the silent gloom.
.. . .F.8.M.: No particular force. . . .E.L.R.: Verse
lacks originality and finish.... Evelyn II.: Too vague
and feverish. .. .A.L.8.: Labored.... Proh P.: Dain-
tily told, but not quite suitable for B. Returning
MS. It should suit one of the local weeklies....
Riah: No use for “Jerusalem.”. .. . J. 8.: You can have
the hard and vigorous life, the johnny cake and the
spree. The only thing we can’t give you is the
space Will J.: Purely artificial Flare: Extin-
guished .... Marrabah: No use whatever; but we
would like to know what it is all about. .. .D.F.W.
(Q.) : Out of focus Yardo M. ■ (S.A.) : Colorless
verse... .John S.: You describe the girl nicely—
then leave out the story.... Edward H.: Something in
“The Sick Stockrider” line, isn’t it?. . . .W.G.B.
(Q.) : Glad to hear from you again. .. .Parvo: Merely
maudlin A.R.P. (S.A.) : Ingenious but not suffi-
cient skill E.A.T.: Send those waiting-room re-
marks to a religious paper. . . .A.B.McD. (V.) : Con-
ventional and crude.... Thripney: Let this be your
last. .. .Wanderer: Too rocky. .. .E.M.S.: Food for
the basket.... Moana: Sorry revised version cannot
score either H.W.T.: If you merely want to get
rid of it, the office tomb is large. .. .R. Agic: Un-
suitable. .. .E.R.: The demand for dead child verse
is strictly limited. .. .A.R.W.: “I’ll tell you of a
writer”——- You’ll tell us nothing 1 .... J.F.L.K.:
Commonplace verse.... Stale M.: Verse is poor and
the sketch on the thin side. Peg away. There are
glimmers here and there. .. .D.G.C. (Sydney): Am
sure he deserves all Your honest scorn; but regarded
as verse, it is too jagged... .H.J. : Tremendous, but
not printworthy.... Bongy: Not worth while....
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Nudson: The emaciated infant makes us feel bad
in ”..e dinner region... .E.J.8.: It wouldn’t repro-
duce, and it wouldn’t be worth reproducing if it
would.


Diagram showing the won-
derful protective quality
of Aertex Cellular in
proportion to its weight.
mmm
vm iTW'fknViV * i >
f ui ,if wi'
wWy^ww
Aertex
WMdMar/l!M :
tmwiaiwr"
111
Equal insight to
111
TsyardA
Ordinary
A
Acr tex
Cellular
Shirts,
Underwear,
Pyjamas,
Socks, etc.,
and
Ladies’
Corsets
and
Underwear
of all kinds.
Recommended
for Health and
Comfort by all
Leading Medical
Practitioners.
Pull Price List
and Samples,
post free.
D. BRAHAM
8 CO.,
76 Market St.,
Sydney
(next to
Farmer’s).
hy making use of
suck a satisfactory
method of cleaning
the teeth as
0
sas
©
It is pleasant to know that you
have polished so nicely those teeth
that show.
It is satisfactory to feel that
your teeth are all properly cared
for —thoroughly cleansed with
this antiseptic dentifrice.
And it leaves such a pleasant
feeling of freshness m the mouth.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co.,
Manchester, Eng,
toR A
FAIR
. . TRY
DINKUM
THE ...
GO]
©
©
lEZON
Accordeous
Tho World’s Best
35/-, 42/- 63/-
Sole Agent:
LYON S,
Bourkest.Melb.
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Fife Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New
Zealand. 9T*AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; The Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. E. Winchombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
Knox, Esq., K.C. ; Sir Alex. MacCormick, M.D. General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teece, F.1.A.,
F.F.A., F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Bargains
FROM
ENGLAND
f
BARGAINS
FOR
ALL.
ASTOUNDING VALUE.
Fnitnining over with money-saving possibilities.
Patronised by Royalty and ttie Nobility.
PAWNBROKERS’
Clearance Sale
SEND AT ONCE FOR OUR
FULL LIST OF
3,500
GENUINE BARGAINS
Bankkrs :
London County & Westminster Bank,
Camberwell Branch, London.
VVTE have every confidence in onr abilities to please our Customers, hence our remarkable
offer of Si;: Months' free Approval. Examine the articles you may choose at your
own convenience, in your own home, and if you are not delighted and fully satisfied with the
high quality and exceptional value, return them to us within six months and we will
immediately return your deposit.
May wo solicit a trial order P Absolute satisfaction guaranteed
or money returned in full.
TERMS OF BUSINESS. Any Article Sent on Approval, Carriage
Free, on receipt of remittance. Cash refunded in full for goods
not approved and returned us within six months.
Read what “The Christian Age” says—
“DAVIS <fc Co., of ‘2G Denmark Hill, have gained
considerable reputation for supplying unredeemed
pledges at very moderate prices. “ We gather from
their latest Bargain List that great savings can be
effected by purchasing a second-hand article of
jewellery which has just had enough wear to test
its value at about one-third the original cost price.
Included in their catalogue are watches by some of
the finest m deers in the world.”
Read what “Great Thoughts” says—
“ There cannot exist much doubt as to the intrinsic
value of any advertised article when such advertisers
are willing to send the goods advertised on the
Approval System. This system is adopted by
Messrs. DAVIS <fc Co., and is a singular proof that
Messrs. DAVIS Sr. Co. have every belief in their
ability to please their customers and prove the
genuine nature of their announcements."
14/6
Field, Race, or Marine Glasses.
£3/i/- Military Binocular (by Lefaier),
as supplied to officers in the Army and Navy;
10 achromatic lenses; 50 miles range; shows
bullet mark at 1,000-yds.; saddler made case;
great bargain; sacrifice, 14/6.
21/-
Powerful £4/4/- Binocular
Glasses (by Chevalier) ; 10
Field
lens
magnification power, brilliant definition,' over
60 miles range, great depth of focus, large
field of view; adjusted to the hie'-est degree
of scientific accuracy; in saddler made sling
case ; tremendous bargain ; sacrifice, £l/1/-
37/6
Powerful £B/8/- Double Draw Bino-
culars, 12 lens magnification power
(by Lmniere), as supplied to H.R.H. the Crown
Prince of Greece; most powerful glass made;
name of ship can be distinctly read five miles
from shore; quick focus, brilliant field of view,
colourless achromatic crystal lenses, enhanced
stereoscopic effect, great penetration power; in
solid brown English leather case; sacrifice,£l/17/6
12/6
Gent’s heavy 18-ct. Gold-cased
Keyless Lever Hunter Watch,
improved action (John Forrest, London); 10
years' warranty; absolutely perfect timekeeper;
also Double Curb Albert, same quality with
handsome Compass attached ; all quite indis-
tinguishable from new; complete, sacrifice, 12/6.
12/6
Lady’s handsome 18-ct. Gold-cased
Keyless Watch, improved action
(Allen & Co., London); exact timekeeper; 10
years’ warranty; also long Watch Guard, elegant
design, same quality ; together, sacrifice, 12/6.
15/6
(Worth £4/4/-). Real Russian Furs.
Rich, dark sable brown Fur, 8-ft.
long; Granville Stole, deep shaped
beautifully trimmed, 12 tails and heads
Granny Muff'matching; together, 15/6.
collar,
; large
22/6
(Wortli £5/5/-). Real Russian Furs.
Ricli, dark sable brown, extra long
Princess Stole, trimmed with head and tails at
back and on shoulders ; also large animal Muff,
with heads and tails hanging ; in perfectly new
condition ; together, great sacrifice, £l/2/6.
12/6
Gent’s fashionable Double Albert,
18-ct. Gold (stamped) idled, curb
pattern, heavy solid links; sacrifice, 12/6.
18/6
Lady’s £4/4/- 18 : ct. Solid Gold, hall-
marked, Diamond and Sapphire
Doublet Half-lioop Ring, claw setting, large
faultless stones; sacrifice, 18/6.
70/
Lady’s £l3/13/- 5-Stone Diamond
and Sapphire Half-hoop Ring, 18-ct.
Gold, Government hall-marked, claw setting,
containing two large round diamonds of dazzling
whiteness’ and three beautiful sapphires of
richest quality; sacrifice, £3/10/-
26/6
Gent’s £4/4/- fashionable Dark Grey
Tweed Jacket Suit (by Stroud,
High-class - Tailor) ; .splendid quality, latest
West End cut and finish, never worn : breast
39-in., waist 36-in., length 32£-in.; £l/6/6.
26/6
Lady’s £5/5/- Solid Gold English,
hall-marked, Keyless Watch, highly
finished jewelled movement, exact timekeeper,
richly engraved; 12 years' warranty; £l/6/6.
70/-
Magnificent Gent’s £l3/13/- Single
Stone Diamond Ring, exceptionally
fine pure white stone, perfect in every respect,
mounted in 18-ct. Gold, Government hall-
marked, claw setting ; sacrifice, £3/10/-
26/6
Lady’s £5/5/- Solid Gold long Watch
Guard, handsome and very stylish
in pattern, stamped and guaranteed, in faultless
and new condition ; sacrifice, £l/6/5.
55/-
Gent’s magnificent £ll/11/- Solid
Gold English, hall-marked, Keyless
Lever, Centre Seconds, Chronograph Stop
Watch, exam, by celebrated watchmaker (W.
Russell, London); jewelled movement, perfect
reliability in any climate in the world ; timed to
a minute a month ; 20 years' warranty ; 6 months’
trial; great bargain; sacrifice, £2/15/-
59/6
Lady’s magnificent £ll/11/- Diamond
and Sapphi re Cluster Ring,! 8 ct. Gold,
hall-marked ; there are ten white and faultless
diamonds surrounding a superb sapphire ot
richest quality ; to appreciate the full beauty of
this Ring it must be seen ; sacrifice, £2/19/6.
29/6
Baby’s Long Clothes, superfine
quality, magnificent £5/5/- parcel,
82 articles, everything required ; beautiful
garments ; the perfection of mother's personal
work; never worn; great sacrifice, £11916.
32/6
Valuable Violin (wor’tli £lO/10/-),
perfect condition, labelled Stradivari us
Cremona,
and Case,
1721 ; rich mellow tone, with Bow
suit professional or soloist; £l/12/6.
13/6
(Worth £3/3/-). Choice Expanding
Watch Bracelet; finest workman-
ship, most successful ever invented, will fit
and grip any wrist, thereby avoiding all vibration'
and ensuring perfect timekeeping; 18-ct. Gold-
cased; 6 months’ trial; sacrifice, 13/6.
12/9
(Wortli £l/15/-). Eight super fine quality
Chemises, Knickers, and Petticoats;
magnificent parcel; sacrifice, 12/9.
39/6
Spoons and Forks. (£lO/10/- Set).
A 1 quality, silver-plated on nickel '
silver, stamped maker's initials, Queen Anne
pattern ; 12 Table, 12 Dessert, 12 Tea Spoons,
12 Table, 12 Dessert Forks; Service 5 doz.;
wonderful bargain, £l/19/6; Half-Set, £\.
10/6
Fashionable Curb Chain Padlock
Bracelet, with safety chain, solid
links, 18-ct. Gold (stamped) filled, in velvet case;
sacrifice, 10/6; another heavier, 12/6.
26/6
(Worth £4/4/-). Twenty-four superfine
quality Nightdresses, Chemises,
Knickers, Petticoats, Combinations, . &c.;
tremendous bargain ; sacrifice, £l/6/6.
6/9
Prelty Necklet, with Heart Pendant
attached, set Parisian pearls and tnr-
qnoises; elegant design; 18-ct. Gold (stamped)
filled ; in velvet case ; bargain ; sacrifice, 6/9.
I
(T)
PAWNBROKERS,
26 DENMARK HILL,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
\HVMVt PEEDXHG
WoHoftvet \ sev\t ou vetvaaat.
f.-.-V.
A progressive dietary adapted to the growing digestive powers.
Milk Food No. 1
From birth to 3 months.
Milk Food No. 2
From 3 to 7 months.
Malted Food No. 3
From 7 months upwards.
dsf
15-17 Market Street, Sydney
Do You Use Glass Instru-
ments in Your Calling ?
i
4
Do you use Scientific Glassware in
your calling? We manufacture and
repair them to exact standard re-
quirements, and guarantee their per-
fect accuracy.
If you wish special instruments made
for any purpose, tell us your needs
and we will quote you for the neces-
sary design.
Our Booklet, illustrating Scientific
Glassware of every kind, is free.
Shall we send you a copy?
WILSON NAFIS § CO. LTD.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane, Q.
£2
Ifl lljjjjj
It
I
&
I
i
ft
m
M
Oh! I say!
It’s Good!’’
Cooling, refreshing and ‘snappy’
Montserrat
LIME JUICE
is the ideal Summer beverage.
Large supplies have lately
been shipped from London.
.MONTSERRAT is Bold by all leading Storekeepers.
For the Country Horseman
The saddle here illustrated is expressly designed
for country use, for stock riding, etc., and is built
of the best materials throughout. If any of our
friends are requiring such a saddle they will find
this a genuine bargain.
It has a hogskin scat, a plated bar-tree, extra
long flaps, with points to buckle below. An economi-
cal feature is the skirt, which extends all round
and thus adds years cf wear to the saddle by pro-
tecting its interior from the weather. It ' has a
deep, “sweepy” seat, 4in. kneepads, nickel-plated
iron stirrups, and double buckle leather girth. The
price complete is £3/15/- Mention of Tub
Bulletin when ordering will ensure your having a
■leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle will
be forwarded freight paid. It is to be obtained
from J. I*. Talty, 38S Sussex Street, Sydney.
Li?-w
THE TWO FRIENDS
Does your Horse know Solomon
Solution ? Its tlie greatest friend
lie can have. In case of accident
—sprain, cut, sore shoulder or
back, girtligalls, etc., it is invalu-
able —and “a friend in need is a
friend indeed.”
Solomon
Solution
Large Jars 5/- from Chemists, Stores,
and Saddlers everywhere. Post Free
for 5/6 from
SOLOMON COX & SON,
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Burns ix Austra-
lasian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and "(Table' news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their filctifls, hse |he
telephone, and obtain itfformatibn without
charge . .1


Amott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, ) tli January, 1914.
COMMONWEALTH SMALL ARMS FAC-
TORY, LITHGOW, N. S. WALES.
Vacancy for Chemist.
APPLICATIONS are invited from per-
sons qualified for, and desirous of,
appointment as Chemist, Small Arms Fac-
tory, Lithgow.
Pay £2lO per annum, inclusive of all
allowances, except travelling.
Forms of application and full particulars
can be obtained on application to the Sec-
retary, Department of Defence, Melbourne;
or from the Military Commandant, Sydney,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
Applications (endorsed on envelope
“Chemist, Small Arms Factory”) must
reach the Secretary, Department of Defence,
not later than 14th February 1914.
S. A. PETIIEBRIDGE,
Secretary, Department of Defenpe.
Missing: Friends.
A Federal Detective Agency.
J. CANTLON
(late Victorian Detective Police) under-
takes Commercial, Confidential, Next of Kin,
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enquiries,
Searches, Surveillance.
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Estate ARCHIBALD McKELLAR,
Deceased.
BOOTHMAN, FLORENCE LOUISA, nee McKELLAR.
—Will Mrs. F. L. Boothman, wife of Mr. Cecil L.
Boothman, last heard of at the Coffee Palace, Cubal-
ling, W.A., Tornaning, W.A., and Ranalagh, Darling
Point, Sydney, or any person knowing her where-
abouts please communicate with THE EQUITY
TRUSTEES COMPANY LIMITED, 85 Queen Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
ILLIAM DELANY, formerly of Nuna-
wading, Victoria, brother of the late
Patrick John Delany, is requested to com-
municate with The Trustees, Executors and
Agency Company, Limited, 412 Collins
Street, Melbourne. Anyone furnishing satis-
factory evidence that William Delany is
alive and in Australia at the present time
will be rewarded.
"Cl EGAN, CHARLES.—F.W.E., India,
would like to hear from Charles Fegan,
of Dublin, believed to be a dentist.
Business Notices.
WHAT IS
J
r
Golcryst is made from Epsom Salts,
Senna, Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liq-
uorice and Ginger. That seems a
good combination of useful medi-
cines for Constipation, Bheumatism,
Impure Blood, Pimples, Boils,
Stomach and Liver Troubles.
So popular has this remedy become in
Australia that Golcryst may be regarded
as the National Aperient.
Packets 3d., 6d. & I|-
If you cannot obtain locally, write to
the Proprietors,
Rocke, Tompsitt 8 Co.,
MELBOURNE,
FOR A FREE SAMPLE PACKET. [1
Dudley”
Concertinas
Organ-toned Instruments in
Handsome Boxes.
No. 4. "Rosewood style Tops,
10 German Silver Keys, 8-
fold Bellows 10/6
No. 5. Rosewood style Tops,
with Trumpet Holes-, 10 Bone
Keys, 8-fold Bellows, with
clasps 157-
POST FREE TO ANY PART OF"
THE COMMONWEALTH.
Musical Instruments of all Kinds
Write for Cata/oaues.
A; P. SYKES
272 Little Collins-street,
Cl
MELBOURNE.
TWO OOORS FROM COLE’S «OOK ARCADE
Amusements.
sydney’spl-easure spot.
■y* H E GREAT WHITE CITY
Of quaint delights and varied pleasures strange—
Mirthful and rare as Fancy’s varied range.
COLOSSAL FREE ATTRACTIONS.
MARIE THELIN, the Fire-Diver.
VAUDEVILLE ACTS IN OPEN-AIR
THEATRE.
WHITE CITY MILITARY BAND.
PROMENADE CONCERTS.
NIGHTLY, 6.30. WEDS. & SATS., 2 to 11.
INCLUSIVE ADMISSION, SIXPENCE.
Gen. Manager: T. 11. ESLICK, C.E.
|_» .... JIA.IKSTV’B THEATRE, sVII.N'KI,
* * Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
THE REVUE OF REVUES.
COME OVER HERE.
The Most Stupendous Entertainment ever Staged in
Australia.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
AI)EI.I* II 1 THEA T R E. SYDNEY.
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45 SHARP.
STUPENDOUS PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA
based on the ever-popular and attractive story.
“ALADDIN” PANTOMIME.
A Wonderful Assembly of Picturesque Scenes.
Favorite Artists and World-famed Novelties.
POPULAR PRICES: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-
Amusements.
PA I. A<) K THEAT It K. SYI>M K \ .
Direction WILLIAM ANDERSON.
CONTINUED SUCCESS OF
THE AMERICAN MUSICAL BURLESQUE CO.
In the Exciting Musical Racing Revel,
A DAY AT THE lACES.
Original Musical Novelties, Enchanting Ragtime
Dances, Brilliant Marches and Ensembles.
Prices: 5/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/- Box Plan at Paling’s.
H~E LITT Jj E THEATRE
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Direction HUGH BUCKLER LTD.
ON SATURDAY, JANUARY 24.
HUGH BUCKLER and MISS VIOLET PAGET,
and Specially Selected Company,
in
HISS HOUSE TN OHDEB,
By SIR ARTHUR WING PINERO.
A Great Play by a Great Author.
National amphitheatre. Sydney.
Governing Director: BEN J. FULLER.
FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE CIRCUIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
ROSE VALERIA SEXTETTE, on a Taut Wire.
GARDNER’S MANIAC BULLDOGS.
CHIEF EAGLE HORSE, Indian Baritone.
FERNANDEZ & MAY, DOROTHY HARRIS,
American Ginger Girls, Ray Lawrence, Signor Rellimi,
Kingsbv & Graham, Cowan & Austin, Stan Stanley.
PRICES: 3/-, 2/-, 1/6, 1/- Plan at Theatre.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
The picture block theatres,
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS,
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO.,
LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
South Australian Oil Wells Company
(NO LIABILITY).
Issue of 100,000 5/- Shares at 2/-. 1/- on application, 1/- on allotment. Balance in sixpenny calls.
CAPITAL: £50,000 in 200,000 Shares of 5/- each. Vendors take 50,000 Shares, and 15,000 shares will
be paid as brokerage. Vendors receive £lOOO.
OBJECT: To bore for oil to 4000 ft. on four sites on 118,000 acres held by the Company between Nara-
coorte, Beachport and Mount Gambier, South Australia.
Brokers :
T. H. MARTYN & CO., Stock Exchange, Sydney. W. 11. HUSSEY, Stock Exchange, Adelaide.
CORRIE k CO., Stock Exchange, Brisbane. E. A. RUSSELL k CO., Stock Exchange, Perth.
BAGLEY & CO., Stock Exchange, Melbourne. BAYLEY & LYONS, Stock Exchange, Hobart.
Manager : ALEX. GORDON, 31 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Directors: V. ,T. SADDLER, GEO. B. GORDON, and GEO. D. MEUDELL.
Two Directors from South .Australia to be elected.
An exceptional opportunity to acquire shares in a sound enterprise with every prospect of handsome
dividends and substantial advance in values.
From Daily Sketch, London, October 29, 1913.
£2O ORIGINALLY INVESTED IN OIL NOW WORTH £BOOO.
The following table (taken from Stock Exchange Records, where securities are listed) shows what
a few shrewd investors made by taking advantage of the early offering in the California field.
£2O originally invested in Pinal Oil Co. is now worth £2400.
£2O originally invested in Lucille Oil Co. is: now worth £3OOO.
£2O originally invested in Home Oil Co. is now worth £BOOO.
In California a 40-acre tract in the proven oil district is worth up to £lOO,OOO.
Old residents from the Coorong to Mt. Gambier, and from Naracoorte to Millicent, know that indica-
tions of oil have been found all through this territory for 30 years.
The geology of the district, the general appearance of the land, the widespread masses of limestone
and sandstone, the presence of bitumen and paraffin wax, the vicinity of a volcanic system, the resem-
blance to the Californian and Ohio oilfields, and the lines of hills folded into saddle reefs parallel to the
coast, are all typical of oilfields in other countries.
Besides these conditions, which prove petroleum exists deep down, natural gas and brine lakes or
salt deposits , are found within the area of 118,000 acres held by this Company under various options,
leases and licenses.
The Directors will hasten the erection of the first modern oil drill, and to strike oil is to multiply the
value of all property in this district tenfold. Then this Company could float one hundred Companies
to bore for oil, in every one of which each shareholder in this Company would get a number of fully-
paid shares. ...
The world wants oil urgently, and the oil-seekers must come to Australia as the only unproved oil
country on earth.
The South Australian Government has offered a bonus of £5OOO for the first 100,000 gallons of oil
from a bore, so this Company will have the first chance of winning it.
ONE
Cartridge
DOES-
sdf
F)R the convenience of the man
who is many miles from the big
towns, we have Special Colt re-
volvers made to shoot the same car-
tridges as the Winchester Rifles.
This saves the trouble of having to
carry two kinds of Ammunition.
The Calibres are .32,
.38 and .44, and these
cartridges are procurable
in any little town
throughout the
civilized world
ds
-for
BOTH
mmm.
The PRICES of the REVOLVERS are—
. 32 cal. 4in. barrel £ 5 ; .38 cab 5%1n.
barrel, £6/15/-; .44 cal. in. barrel,
£7/10/
Winchester Rifles— Half or full Maga
zine—Carbine length, 20 in. barrell 60/
Full Rifle length, 24 in. barrel. 62/6.
Catalogs.
Free
Alcock & Pierce
318 Lt. Collins
Street, MELB.
DINNEFORDSj
Magnesia
DINNEFORD’S
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
Amusements.
i
M P E R I A L THEATRE,
WILLIAM STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
THE PICTURE HOUSE BEAUTIFUL.
CHANGE OF PROGRAMME.
MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS.
All the Best in the Biograph World.
PRICES : 3d. to 1/-
LACIARIUM AND OLYMPIA, SYDNEY
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
W EST’S PICT U EPS, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICEREGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s.
Plans at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
g PEN C E It’S LYCE li M, SYDN E Y.
THE WORLDSIIEST PICTURES.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE—WEDNESDAY, AT 2.30.
A GREAT PROGRAMME, consisting of TOPICAL,
DRAMATIC, SCENIC and COMEDY SUBJECTS.
Prices: 1/6, 1/- & 6d. Box Plan at Paling’s & White
Rose.
Edward brans combe’s
FIVE COMPANIES OF
DANDIES
Appear Nightly at
EDEN GARDENS, MANLY.
CREMORNE GARDENS, BRISBANE.
ESPLANADE, ST. KILDA.
EXHIBITION GARDENS, ADELAIDE.
OLYMPIA, PERTH.
R 1 Clv A K D S’ X I V OL JL X H EA X 14 Ji.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
FIVE MERRY YOUNGSTERS, Juvenile Comedians.
ROMANO BROTHERS, Grecian Gladiators.
MANUEL DE FRA, Sensational Chair-balancing.
GENE GREENE, Emperor of Ragtime.
JOSEPHINE DAVIS, Greatest Character Comedienne.
ALBERTO & CO., MARIE QUINTRELL, Bioscope.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
Prices: 5/-, 4/- and 1/-
P ERA H O U S E. M E L B O U It N
Governing Director : HUGH D. McINTOSH.
FERRY CORWEY, the Musical Clown.
THE SCHMETTANS, Famous Continental Athletes.
BARTON & ASHLEY, Brisk and Breezy Americans.
SELMA BRAATZ, World’s Greatest Lady Juggler.
THE FIVE PETLEYS, Trampoline Artists.
THE CLEMENDOS, Continental Acrobats.
ERIC STONE, Black and White Illustrator.
ALBERTO MARINI, Italian Tenor.
Plan at Allan’s. »“PRICES—4s., 3s„ 25., Is.
■IIE KING’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager: Wili.iam Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
First Production in Australia of the Mirthful Musical
Fantasy,
THE LAND OE NOD.
POPULAR PRICES.
PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. .MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEO. WILLOUGHBY LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
- Geo. Willoughby Ltd. presents
for the' first time in Australia,
THE PRIDE OP THE PRAIRIE,
a new Four-Act American Melodrama.
ADMISSION: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Pianola Co.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
First Production of the Stupendous Pantomime
Extravaganza,
THE FORTY THIEVES.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices: 65., 45., 2s. and Is.
"|“ HEA T R E It OY A 1,. M ELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of JULIUS KNIGHT, supported by
MISS IRENE BROWNE and a talented company, in
DIPLOMACY.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stalls, 4/-. Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
OLYMPIA. OLYMPIA.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR 'PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
. • EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
UIEST’S PALACE. MELBOURNE.
THE BEST WEST’S PICTURES THE BEST
OF ALL LIMITED. OF ALL
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays.
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterdrise im the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen
at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
p r i ces —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
L L
Birch & car r o
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
ial centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Iharters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
oute, . appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
vhieh we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
lead Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
4 CORRESPONDENT writes: “There is
J\_ always one feature in The Lone
Hand each month that is alone worth the
price charged for the whole number.” Th<?
price of The Lotte Hand is 6d.


Itching Scalps
Dandruff and
Falling Hair
\S 4f!
Vs*
I
■ J D
Successfully
Treated with
Cuticura Soap
And Cuticura Ointment. Directions:
Make a parting and rub gently with
Cuticura Ointment. Continue until
whole scalp has been gone over-.
Next morning shampoo with Cuti-
cura Soap. Shampoos alone may
be used as often as agreeable, but
once or twice a month is generally
sufficient for women’s hair.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment sold everywhere.
Liberal sample of each, with 32-page book, sent post-
free. Address It. Towns &Co , Sydney, N. S. W.
The Liver is the
Road to Health
. If th e liver is right the whole system Is
right. CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
will gently awaken your
sluggish, clogged-up liver
and cure constipation,
stomach trouble, in-
active bowels, loss
of appetite,
sick head-
ache and
dizziness.
Purely
vegetable.
You need them.
fsd
BARTERS
WITTLE
11 IYER
I PILLS.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The GENUINE must bear signature
fds
r
6,
t,
U
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
age, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. B.
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. B. ALLEN S <u.s.a.)
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suitable
for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
Jrom AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
e ’ty or country should miss.
m
McLaren
Traction Engines
and Tractors.
8 H.P. Traction Engine.
McLaren Steam Tractors & Ploughs
Continue Their Unbeaten Record in 1913.
In the 1913 South African Ploughing Competition, open to all makers
of Steam and Oil Tractors, McLAREN was EASILY FIRST.
In the 1913 Algerian Ploughing Competition, open to all makers of
Steam and Oil Tractors, McLAREN was EASILY FIRST.
These Awards were secured on :
1. Low first cost of plant.
2. Low cost of working.
3. Quality of work done.
4. Quantity of work done in specified time.
Full particulars of Traction Engines for Haulage or Ploughing, or for both,
supplied by Sole Agents for -Australia :
GIBSON, BATTLE & GO. LTD.
535 Kent Street, SYDNEY
480 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund, £465,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,464.
Directors: JOHN GRICE, Esq., EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., H. M. STRACHAN Fso
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. ’
Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD.
HEAD OFFICE, MELBOURNE. SYDNEY OFFICE, 60 PITT STREET.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia. Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgate, E.C.
Nothing can surpass
HORROCKSES'
SHEETINGS for
durability
When Buying see HORROCKSES’ name on Face-plait,
and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS. !
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
l/H. 2/9 & 4/6.
fsd
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectu all y
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
‘he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts tlko a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
m
Science behind it—
PEBECO is a complete
scientific ‘ health-course ’ for
the mouth and teeth.
Its alkaline properties correct the acidity
r of the saliva, prevent bacterial inroads upon
the teeth, and deodorise the breath. Pebeco
imparts a pearly whiteness, arrests decay,
removes tartar, and by invigorating the
tissue remedies shrinking gums.
P€B€CO
TOOTH-PASTE
is highly antiseptic, and if regularly used
prevents many diseases of the mouth and
throat. A sample of “ Pebeco,” and an
k interesting test by which you may prove
its value, sent FREE. Of all chemists.
Large Tube 1/6, small l/-
Q. ARNOLD, 6 O’Connell St.,
Sydney (wholesale .only).
mu:
The Inky Way.
Incas : There is a capital institution called the
Newspaper Press Fund in existence in. London, the
president whereof is Lord Burnham, formerly Levy
Lawson, the owner of the Daily Telegraph. It's
°?jects are to assist and relieve necessitous members
Horary departments of the press of the
United Kingdom who shall have become members of
the fund, and the widows, orphans or other dependent
relatives of such persons. The invested funds amount
to £64,681,. and last year 214 persons were paid
£5196. Life membership costs £lO 10s., in a
lump or in three annual payments of £3 10s. each, or
15 instalments of £1 Is. each. Up to December 31,
1912, the fund had distributed £82,357. It should
be an easy matter for the Australian Journalists’
Association to inaugurate a similar scheme on even a
broader basis of subscriptions.
The barks of “Bookware”: Consider literary rag-
time, a phylloxera which breaks out at various
periods. The Augustan poets Virgil, Horace and
Ovid inspired a miserable imitation which went on
degenerating into “Words, words, words,” as Hamlet
says. Literary ragtime is the adoration of words
instead of things, and worries every editor. Allitera-
tion becomes nauseous. Milton despised the shackle
of rhyme; but the genius of Dryden and Pope chained
all imitators to the so-called heroic couplet. Poetry
was soon mere rhymed words. Cowper came as a
reformer, and much later Wordsworth; but he de-
scended into his own ragtime. Byron tore it to
pieces. Dickens started a terrible ragging, the shell
of words without the kernel of ideas—or much shell
to an intolerable little of kernel. In France a
literary ragger was the dramatist Marivaux, who in-
vented what was called Marivaudage, a play of lan-
guage. Horribly demoralising. Sprang up then a
host of imitators, now descended into limbo. As a
parallel in Spain there was Gongorism. Lope de
Vega had written 1500 plays, besides a great heap of
poetry. Much genius in this, but much more ragging
m convolutions of language, for which the facile
Spanish offers far more temptation than Italian even.
The so-called poet Gongora, immensely popular for a
time, invented a mechanical kind of system, which
anvone could practise like vamping the piano. And,
as you might expect, poetry ran to weed.
* * * *
“Incas”: What a brilliant galaxy of journalists
conducted Bohemia, a comic journal in Melbourne
about 25 years ago! There were Donald MacDonald,
John Sandes, D. H. Maling, “Peter” Symmons, Mit-
chell (sporting contributor), Lowe and the Blair
girls, daughters of David Blair, an old-time journal-
ist. Frank Myers and “Jack” Nish occasionally
contributed, and Julian Thomas, the old “Vagabond ”
often supplied pars. The little paper sparkled with
tun, though it only enjoyed a limited circulation,
h mally the Argus people induced its representatives
on Bohemia to start the “Oriel” column for extra
pay, and Bohemia promptly expired. It was
“Johnnie” Sandes, now of Sydney D.T., who gave the
new column its “Oriel” signature.
• The burning of Table Talk’s print-
ing office in Melbourne recalls the brilliant journalist
who founded and edited the paper—Maurice' Brodsky,
now in London. Brodsky was in his heyday during
the Vic. land boom, and when that catastrophe began
to burst like old eggs, he very bravely published lists
of bank and building society shareholders and parti-
culars of insolvencies and compositions, all in most
meticulous detail. After that bout, Table Talk
fell away like a mirage, and Brodsky retired to
America, and then to London, where he edited the
Australian Trading World. His clever son Leon
is also a capable journalist, and papa’s cloak will soon
fit him.
* * * *
W. H. Leighton Bailey, a warlike journalist
known in Australia as “Little Gundagai” in the long
ago, and founder of one or more Sunday papers, is
n ”'y hhud and an inmate of the Royal Eye Hospital
at St. George s Circus, Southwark (Eng.). An opera-
tion, with fairly good hopes of restoring the sight
was talked of when The Bulletin last heard of
him.
* * * *
. The Sun, the new evening paper which is to throw
its light on Christchurch (M.L.), has, so far, staffed
up in this way Editor, E. C. Huie (Austral-
Maonlander) ; assistant editor, C. A. Marris; sub,
Frank Hickey (late of the Press Association) chief
reporter, Lane (now on Southland Times) ; race-
course and stable commentator, F. Thomas; cartoon-
ist, Will Hope; mere -workers, G. F. Hendry and A.
L. Chappell (both of Auckland Herald). No. 1,
Vol. 1, will be out about January 20.
From the other end: The dramatic and musical
critics of London, in conclave assembled, have de-
clared by resolution: “That the number and activity
of so-called Press agents, receiving payment from
theatrical and musical managers and artists for pro-
curing the gratuitous insertion of laudatory articles
and paragraphs in newspapers, is detrimental not only
to the interests of the newspapers concerned and of
the drama and music, but also to those of the
public.” As a rider to this resolution, the meeting
recommended “that theatrical and musical news
should not be published unless received from a
source responsible to the newspaper, or from the
official representative of a recognised manager.” The
critics certainly have reason to complain, inasmuch
as the “booming” articles the claquer sends out in
advance invariably over-paint the lily, wherefore the
critic in his impartial notice has often to denounce
a show which his own paper has been led into
puffing beforehand.
“S.S.”: Are Australians enamored of the dog? I
ask this question because the outbreak of colored
supnlements at Christmas would lead the observant
stranger to conclude that our passion for the tyke
is greater than our fondness for horse and our devo-
tion to cow. Every colored supplement of Australian
origin that has come my way has had more or less
dog in it. The Australasian issued two, both
representing the domesticated hound in affectionate
juxtaposition with the domesticated kid. Why this
excessive journalistic “dorg” ?
THE SONG OF THE WORLD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fiction of the baser sort still enjoys an enormous
popularity. Recent critical comment on a much-
boomed, novel.
I limned a picture of shining Truth,
And wrought it carefully, year by year ;
I gave it the cream of my brain and youth,
And kept it holy and held it dear ;
But when it came i’ the public gaze
It won no praise and it drew no prize,
And I heard a cry in the gilded ways:
A man does well if he lives by lies.”
I sang a song of the Crystal Fount,
M here Beauty bathes in the morning gleam,
Of verdant vale and the holy mount
That once gave birth to a magic stream ;
And some few murmured: “He chanteth well
Of lovely life in the olden guise,
But lo ! for the many he hath no spell—
A man does well if he lives by lies.”
I passed my days in the fane austere
That Wisdom keeps for her chosen few ;
I breathed the prayers the high gods hear,
And laid my soul on the altars true;
But when 1 spake to the bustling throng
that wasted life in a maze unwise,
They asked: “What matters your Right and
Wrong?
A man does well if he lives by lies!”
The world is full as the world of old
Of all that maketh the green earth fair ;
Its sunrise gleam and its sunset gold
Are just as tender and radiant-rare;
And Wisdom and Beauty are here for him
Who, nobly proud, with the noble vies,
And stops his ears to the chorus grim—-
“A man does well if he lives by lies!”
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.


Pi§g
m
THE CERT D.8.8.L. GUN 12-gauge, top lever 30in. steel barrels
extension rib, rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pis*-oi
grip, walnut stock; weight about 71b £lll5l
Same Gun as above, but with Greener cross bolt ’ ’ £2151
Postage on one Gun, 2/9 N.S.W. ; 5/2 Inter-State.
Harrington 8 Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12-g ati ge, top
action, solid case
hardened locks,
fsd
decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol grip, walnut stock, weight
about Gilb. Gun can be taken apart, same as an ordinary Double
Auto-Ejector, 24/-; Non-Ejector, 21/-
Posture—2/6N.S.W. ;
4/8 Inter-State.
msssss
“The Continental,” 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Collector Gun,
410 oore, finest Siemen’s steel barrel, side lever action, solid or skeleton, walnut stock, case
hardened locks, 24in. barrel, length over all weight about 41b. A splendid
gun for use in Orchards. Postage—ls. 9d. N.S.W., 3s. 2d. Inter-State.
35/-
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
Head Depot: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches: City, Suburbs and Newcastle.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
WILL ANDRADE for PLAYS.
F
AMOUS
ARCES
REE-ACTING
1 I-
Contents—
Area Belle
Betsy Baker
Box and Cox
Ici on Parle Francais
My Turn Next
Rough Diamond
That Rascal Pat
Turn Him Out
All these are IN ONE
VOLUME for 1/-
(posted 1/1).
Mention The Bulletin.
EASY CONJURING TRICKS.
New American Joke
Books illustrated: Hot
Stuff Jokelets, 1/1;
Polite Vaudeville, 1/1 ;
After - Dinner Stories,
1/1; Hebrew Jokes,
1/1; Stage Jokes, 1/1 ;
Irish Jokes, 1/1; Talk-
alogues, 1/1 ; Jokes
AVithout Whiskers, 1/1;
On a Fast Train, 1/1;
On a Slow Train, 1/1;
AVith a Bum Show,
1/7; Mustard Plasters,
1/7 ; The 125 Best Card
Tricks, 1/8; Brough's
Secret of Stage Make-
Up, 1/4; Comic Recita-
tions, 1/1 ; Hypnotism,
Mesmerism and Clair-
voyance, 1/1 ; Amateur
Conjuring Book, 7d.
M* c>
\n.\* »! •
'j /•
rfM
Diminishing'
Cards.
Ordinal 1 y
Playing
Cards, which
are apparent-
ly ‘ squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
altoge t h e r.
Complete,
with full in-
struct i o n s;
anyone can
work them.
29,
posted 3/-
Other Easy Card Tricks are:—(l) Wizard of the
North, and (j!) The Two-from-Five, 6d. each;
posted Bd. Above 3Tricks, oost free anywhere, 4/-
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.' - *®
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Ca ta/offues
FREE.
201 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
GPNS that give Satisfaction.
The BEST and CHEAPEST HOUSE
for all kinds of
GUN REPAIR WORK.
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition,
etc. Post Free
Anywhere.
©
National Arms Co.’s 12- or 16-Gauge D.8.8.L. Gun,
reinforced breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar interchangeable locks, Greener cross
bolt, extension rib, left full, right modified choke, 30in. special steel barrels, pistol grip.
walnut stock, engraved, weight of 12-gauge about 6ilb. to 71b.,
of 16-gauge 6£lb. to DELIVERED,
We can supply this Gun in 20-gauge, at 14/ - extra.
67/6
We are the Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the above Gun, which has been made to our own specifica-
tions, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
©
9
zm
m
The “Continental ” Combined Double
Barrel Shot Gun and Rifle,
SOin. Krupp Steel Barrels, bar locks, cross bolt, the gun barrel full choice, 12-
gauge shot, 32 Winchester Rifle calibre, weight about 7|lb.
CARRIAGE PAID.
£6 10s
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
v Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL.
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Over 7000 In use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile —
WHITE FOR FUEE PLANS and BOOK.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
Farquhar’s Agricultural Machines
7m
have been recognised as leaders of
quality for more than fifty years because
they excel in strength and efficiency.
Therefore they are noted all over the
world for their reliability.
We manufacture Steam Engines and
Boilers, Gasoline Engines, Steam and Gasoline
Traction Engines, Threshers, Saw Mills, Horse
Powers, Plows, Harrows, Cultivators, Corn
Shellers, Corn Mills, Grain Drills, Corn
Planters, Cotton Planters, Potato Diggers,
Store Trucks, etc.
%
Also, Hydraulic Presses for Cider, Wine, Veneer, etc.
Write for Free Illustrated Catalogues.
Correspondence in all Modern Languages.
Cable Address: “FENANIiLE,” New York.
A. B. FARQUHAR &
Cotton Exchange Building,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Gut Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
or Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle or the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/6.
.Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyhook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlop. Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling nr Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life.
10s Gd. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: nost, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce. Us. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Nor Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu. 9d and Is 6d.
Goo and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain fop. the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train fop. all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses
is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How’ to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups. Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, is 6d.
<0
m
Si
H
1
8
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to th£ minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of meri and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes toienjov married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
iwbookseller to the commonwealth, -we
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, iic., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Sk.cr.kts and How to
"on at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River,. 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Tiie White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter,, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. Is: post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s * 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping. 2s. Like op Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan's Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers ok Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. 25 Tears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONKY a shall idea OF 3IY stock can
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ui>, Illustrated Guide to the Stage Is
posted. Hew Thicks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine
Is. Old Basil Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dit. Milford’s Mid’
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s fid.
Aristotle, 3/fi. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key ’to "all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. "Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ghkvassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted'
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook"
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. lOONew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
hound, my price, 15s post paid (why pav 3 anc j
guineas). Bootmaking and ls 2d. Dyxa
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com’
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, bv Pain*
posted. Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DA Y.’


ALL WOMEN REQUIRE
LAXO-TONIC PILLS
At this time of the year pretty well e veryone requires a tonic, and this is especially
true in respect to women, for w T hat they require is a reliable tonic that will not
upset the system, but one which, being a mild and gentle laxative as well, will
relieve such troubles as Lassitude, Loss of Appetite, Biliousness and Headache, by
remedying the cause for which these are the symptoms. Thousands, of women
throughout Australasia have proved that Laxo-Tonic Pills are the one remedy on
which they can always rely, and this is well illustrated in the following testimonial
from a lady at Leichhardt: —
!
W.
ym
mm
~-c-62gw>
“I think there is not a pill in Sydney that
can heat Laxo-Tonic Pills, for they are the
best I have come across,” writes Mrs. Moore,
Jerrett Street, Leichhardt, N.S.W. “I suffered
cruelly with my liver and a dreadful pain
between the shoulders and chest. My liver
used to swell up, and the pain in my legs
was unbearable, and I was completely run
down. No one knows what I have suffered.
I often wished I was dead, for that seemed
the only way of ending my sufferings. I was
an invalid in bed for three months, and I
could not put my foot to the floor, and my
head used to ache dreadfully, and everything
used to swim around me, and I used to walk
with a stick, and I was awfully weak. I have
tried many kinds of pills and so-called reme-
dies. I also was in two different hospitals,
but I returned just as bad as ever. One day
I fortunately came across your Laxo-Tonic
Pills. I took them according to directions,
and after I had taken six boxes of these
wonderful little pills I was completely cured,
all my giddy headaches had disappeared, also
the pains, and I can do my work as well as
ever I did in my life. It is now two years
since I was cured, and I have never had a
return of the old complaints since I have com-
menced taking Laxo-Tonic Pills, for they
have been my doctor for the past two years,
and by taking a few occasionally I keep in
splendid health. They seem to purify the
blood, and I can honestly recommend them
to anyone suffering as I have done.”
THERE IS HEALTH AND STRENGTH
IN EVERY PILE.
There is no better remedy for women and children than Laxo-Tonic Pills. It is a
popular Remedy, at a popular price, and can always be relied upon to give good
results. Laxo-Tonic Pills are sold everywhere. Regular Size box. l(Md. Double
Size box, 1/6.
o
V
9
9
/
vS
mrei
1/6
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Play
Free
m
»
Vf/
■»' +' /i
•as
:-d«
<r<m
Most Famous Sliding Cord ,
Brace in the World Y^j\
V/vv^lsi^Sr^ s^
V Sold Everywhere Ysfif
2/-
Guaranteed
* *
Get the Genuine
DUPLEX
Mast be Stamped
•a Buckle.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
ARB PREPARED TO PURCHASE ORES, CONCENTRATES AND
FURNACE PRODUCTS containing Gold and Copper at most favor-
able rates.
ALSO TO INSPECT MINING PROPERTIES with a view to Develop-
ing, Financing, or Purchasing same.
Address: MR. B. MAGNUS, General Manager, MOUNT MORGAN, QUEENSLAND.
I am in Love with the Sun
and the Sky.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I AM in love with the sun and the sky
And the odors that come from the sea.
Nature my mistress full-breasted leans
over
And muiunurs and wantons with me;
Her passion and sweetness she brings to her
lover
Insatiate ; her secrets my ardors discover;
The music long-drawn of her sigh
As I lie
Fills my blood with the lust of her beauty
and stirs
To the deeps all my manhood that laughs
and is hers,
And my soul flutters free.
I am in love with the shy, silent places ;
I laugh and rejoice in the waves’ keen em-
braces ;
A-hungered I snatch from the breeze as it
passes
The scent of wild grasses,
The fragrance of herbage and blossom and
wood ;
The reek of the soil in my nostrils is good,
And the breath of the kine
Is a solace of mine,
And the sting of salt spray turns my blood
into wine ;
At the call of the rose
My rapt being o’erflows,
And I live in the moment, content with the
day,
Content with the flowers to wonder and
pray,
As God knows.
I am in love with all women that breathe ;
All men are my mates,
Be they smiling or fighting.
Ah, but I thirst for delight! lam hurled
By a tear or a smile to a height whence the
world
Lies under me calling,
Enticing, inviting,
No matter what asses are prating and bawl-
ing,
And bidding me see
There’s a feast spread for me;
Deft handmaids come bearing the wine and
the cates
With gold poppies to wreathe
Round my brow,
And I laugh, and I throb, and I vow,
While my nerves and my pulses exuberant
sing,
That I am the monarch of everything.
All the good fellows alive are my mates ;
I’m in love with all women that breathe.
Night, with her bosom a shimmer of stars,
Stoops when I’m weary to soothe and en-
fold me.
Eager to hold me
Safe till the dawnlight comes peering and
jars—-
Wonderful, passionate, exquisite Night,
Mistres of glamors and dreams and delight,
Keeper of secrets no heart shall discover,
She is my lady, and I am her lover;
Never she seeks to elude or to scold me,
Nothing unworthy her perfectness mars.
I that am weak know her mighty to hold me.
Night, with her bosom a glory of stars!
I am in love with the children ; I bless
God for their lovesomeness all the day long.
I am the lover of souls in distress
Under duress
Hateful of bigotry, malice and wrong.
Oh, my heart sings
Pity unending for cattle and kings,
All the hard-driven dumb impotent things.
I am the lover of insect and leaf,
Wheat in the blade and ripe corn in the
sheaf—
Lover of darkness and dawning and noon,
Lover of still nights impearled by the moon,
Lover of tempests and lover of calms,
Lover of God with the world in His arms. ..
Braggarts and hurricanes shriek and go by.
What are such noises to me?
I am in love with the sun and the sky
And the whispers that come from the sea!
MAOKILAND.
FRANK MORTON.
Miss Finnerty’s Wake.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FINNERTY’S” is a small house, built
plain, with no nonsense about it.
It faces a neglected thoroughfare,
known perhaps to the city surveyor by name,
but to all others as “Finnerty’s Lane.” Its
back fence is sheer with the wood-lined side
of ‘‘the creek,” along which meanders a
rivulet of slaty water from the mines “up
the town.” For Finnerty—in summer —do
step from his back gate, had he possessed
one, was to drop four feet down into this
shiny ooze. In rainy weather, he would
have dropped into a rushing torrent of tur-
bulent waste water and would have been
carried underneath bridges and culverts and
far away. Then Finnerty would have been
Finnerty no more —only an unrecognisable
quantity, owing to the bridges and old beams
he would have encountered on the way.
It was the close of a blistering day. Like
a crimson menace the sun had set. Hover-
ing clouds of insects made the night musical
with their intoning. Along the bed of the
creek mosquitoes were hatching by millions,
and their insolent humming, combined with
the varied odors which the creek threw off,
made “Finnerty’s” a place to be remembered.
Two boys had let themselves down into
the creek. They paddled about among the
silt and the slime, fossicking for “specks.”
Patrick Day assured his mate that “the
creek ’ad made men wealthy before to-day.”
The boys’ search for wealth presently brought
them flush with the rear of Finnerty’s. Its
fence was rotten with age. Its ‘palings,
once nailed firmly to the wooden edge of the
creek, but now eaten away, looked like a
terrace of decayed teeth. It was also deco-
rated with an endless variety of dish-cloths
and pot lids—rubbish that Finnerty had
aimed inaccurately at the creek. So over-
burdened did the fence appear that one more
rag or jam tin would surely have caused it
to crumble bodily into the depths below
Beneath this fence “Carroty” Blight was
able, by climbing on Pat’s shoulders, to
abstract an egg from Finnerty’s fowl-house
While reaching for another he heard a dis-
mal wail. He scrambled back to creek level
a pallid personage, and his yellow hair
bristled stiffly.
“The place is harnted,” he said. “Some-
thing between a dingo an' a death rattle.
Twig?”
“Aw, gerrout! You’s a cowardly custard,”
said Pat in contempt. “It’s curlews, most-
like, or cats. Gosh!” he added, as another
crv and yet another arose in quick succes-
sion, “let’s gerrout o’ this. Like rats in a
■ trap we’d be if anything wuz after us.”
With uncouth agility they scrambled up
•and crept round to the front of the cottage.
From the gate a short bricked path, bor-
dered bv a spiky shrub which struck out
painfully at visitors, led to the door. There
was a tree-guard opposite. Under it the boys
ciept stealthily and awaited events.
It was now early night. The house,
usually as black as a mourner’s hat at this
hour, was all a-glimmer with winking can-
dle-light. Marvelling, the boys decided that
“somethin’ was up.” Amid the glow, heads
and shoulders of men and women could be
seen crowding the narrow passage which led
from parlor to kitchen and bulging out of the
rooms beyond. They watched other visitors
negotiate the bricked path and gleefully noted
their curses when they encountered the
spikes. A sound, now quite monotonous,
thei'e was of wailing, punctured at times by
a shrill inquiry of “Oh, whoi, whoi did she
doi?” The scene was trimmed with moans
and decorated with erratic lamentations.
Carroty’s blood ran cold. “Come ’ome,”
he said. “There’s somethin’ crook goin’ on
in there, ’r else the place is haunted. Listen!
By gosh, I’m duckin’ fer the p’leece.”
“No, you fool,” quoth Patrick, to whom
enlightenment had come. “It’s a wake that’s
on. I remember now me mother sayin’ ole
Miss Finnerty wuz laid out.” Pie hitched
irritably at his pants. “An’ we cud have bin
there all the evenin’, ’stead o’ dishin’ round
after nuggets if I’d give it a thought. We’ll
go now. There’s fun at a wake, an’ grub.
I bin to lots. Anyhow, we oughter pay our
respects to the dead.”
Carroty had descended from a long line of
leather-lipped Wesleyans. To .him the word
“wake” was synonymous with “sin.” Yet
the prospect of unlimited food was alluring,
for he was a raw-boned boy and a voracious
feeder. With mixed feelings he threw in his
lot with the tempter. Assuming a becoming
dolor they threaded the avenue of spikes and
arrived at the door.
Slavishly imitating the experienced Pat,
Carroty passed through the sweltering parlor
into the death chamber and sank on his knees
beside the bier of old Miss Finnerty—she
who, on divers occasions, had made war
against them, had caused them to be
thrashed at school, had thrown firewood at
them. Kneeling by the poor bed close to
the stark, draped figure thereon, Carroty
was thrilled to the marrow with awe. Not
so Pat. His sang-froid was immense. Like
a gabbling cherub he prayed—his every
angle taking on a pathos which would have
deluded Satan himself.
Ousted presently from the bedside by
fresh mourners the boys moved parlor-wards,
listening awhile to the eulogies of the de-
parted. One old man with a head like a
broom would now and then open his jaws
and howl like a dingo, but whether from
grief or for more liquor was uncertain.
Groaning there was as from a number of
folk afflicted with indigestion, rocking of
shoulders, dry sobbing, and again the reitera-
tion, “Whoi did she doi?” Finnerty him-
self, otherwise “Peg Leg,” brother of the
deceased, was going strong.
“A saint she wuz for fifty-four year, an’
.now gone beyant! God rest her sowl! It’s
missin’ her Oi’ll be. So cunnin’ wid the
poultliry. A-whoo!”
He raised his glass and there was a sound
Bke gulp, gulp, gurgle—urgle-gle.”
Aye, s^le was that,” agreed the ladies.
_ ( . )h ,v.,? vhol! 0h > whoi du d ye doi, Kar-
t her in ? cried Finnerty, pressing the point
tactlessly and worrying the departed with
useless questions. “A foine wumman loike
ye,self,” he continued, “an’ such a hand wid
th pig. Oh whoi! Come back to your owld
mahn, Kartherin, come back !”
« T 9, 1 ?’ ha commented the mourners;
shell tend no more pigs—on airth. God
rest her sowl! She be in glory be now.”
‘Be gob, yis!” sobbed Peg Leg; “laving
° foine home t day to go God knows where
ter-morrer. An’ me a lone mahn wid neither
chick nor child beyant the pig in the shty ”
Again he drank. Not till he had spilt the last
drain down his throat did he speak again.
Ut s a nate headstone Oi’ll put over ye,
Kartherin,” he said, addressing the deceased
through the wall, “for yure birthday. It’s
°uly ycr dessarts, me gurrl, an’ a monny-
ment Oi’ll erict that’ll make jilousy in th’
counthry.”
There was a stir of approval. Feet were
shuffled and glasses emptied.
“You’re a fine felly, Finnertv,” they
said. ‘Ginirous to a fault —an’ Oi’ll fill up
again for Oi’ve a thirst on me this night.”
In the kitchen the boys found the mourn-
ing to be in lighter vein. There the dead
had ceased to be a monopolist. Her virtues,
as a topic, had given place to codlin and
footrot in sheep. Food and drink were
plentiful. The boys, perhaps by reason of
the chastened expression of Pat, were filled
to their collar buttons, and Carroty, who
had attended many tea meetings, was fain
to award the palm for luxury to “ole Miss
Finnerty’s wake.”
Coming away at last they found a square
bottle of gin standing unprotected in the
passage. Pat commandeered it. As he
said : “They [the mourners] ’ad mor’n wuz
good for ’em as ’twas.” Outside they re-
gained the tree-guard, where they discussed
the dead, also the gin. Drink affected them
variously. It made Pat timid. It made
Carroty bold as brass. With a dare-devil-
dom born entirely of the bottle he found
himself presently creeping, a dirty reel of
cotton, relic of last kite flying, in hand, up
to Finnerty’s door. Deftly he attached the
cotton to the horseshoe which did duty
for a knocker. Paying it out as he went, he
regained the hiding nlace, made the cotton
taut, and pulled. “Tip tap,” rang the horse-
shoe obediently.
The dnnr was onened by Peg Leg. Lie
waited. No one entered. Mystified, he put his
wild head out into the stench of the creek.
Suffocated, he drew it in again and closed
the door.
Hardly had he regained his whisky when
the “tip-tap” resumed. Again he stumped
to the door.
“Who is ut?” he demanded. “If ut’s you,
Paddy Maloney, knarckin’, come in orf me
onion bed. Come in. Phwat the divil’s the
(Continued on next page.)


*• • *Nr* •
JLL jKINDSTOF,
**■
s
K
Ks
S
Ji
/
\l-
Summer-
SKIN
TROUBLES.
SUNBURN, BLISTERS, PRICKLY HEAT, SMARTING
PATCHES, INSECT BITES, ITCH 8 KINDRED SKIN
TROUBLES PROMPTLY HEALED BY ZAM-BUK.
IN summer the skin is made tender by
excessive perspiration ; and the badness
imprisoned in the tissue, owing to the
sluggishness of the pores, is drawn out in
the form of pimples, rashes and heat swellings.
The strong air of the country or the seaside
does not always suit the skin of the town
dweller, while a change of water frequently
' induces a burning irritation and rash that is
even more discomforting than sunburnt and
peeling arms and face, because this irritation
provokes rubbing and scratching, which opens
the way for eczema or some poisoned sore.
The best check to these skin troubles is the
y regular use of Zam=Buk, which is a pure skin balm.
For removing that tingling irritation known as
Summer Itch, or Prickly Heat, Zam-Buk is invaluable.
Zam-Buk is also highly recommended for taking the sting and smarting
out of insect bites, for it not only soothes pain, but counteracts any
poison that may have been introduced into the system.
Zam-Buk has achieved a world-wide reputation for purity and
effectiveness.
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK
SUMMER RASH.
Mrs. L. Switzer, of Ethel Street, For-
restville, Adelaide, says: “Overheating of
the blood caused a nasty rash to break
out at different periods on the back of
my neck. This was very irritable, and it
was a matter of difficulty to keep my
hands from it. My mother, who always
used Zam-Buk in the home, recommended
me to try this balm. I did so, and in a
short time the rash was completely
ended.
“My sister has also been cured of skin
eruptions by Zam-Buk.”
SUNBURN CAUSED BLISTERS.
Mrs. A. Lamplough, of High Street,
Chelmer Hill, Mount Morgan (Q.), says:
“One day during the holidays my boy,
who had been swimming, complained of
a nasty pain on his back and shoulders.
On examining him I found that the sun
had burnt him so badly that the skin was
hanging in water blisters, and the poor
lad could not bear the weight of his
clothes on him. After picking the blisters
1 applied Zam-Buk all over his back, and
in a week the smarting and soreness had
quite gone away.”
For all Summer Skin Troubles, as well as the minor everyday
accidents thftt happen in every home, Zam-Buk is invaluable.
1/6
and
3/6
PER
[POT.
“RUB
IT
IN
Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy.
This is the best medicine procurable for bowel complaint in all its forms. It
relieves pain in the stomach, dysentery, diarrhoea and colic. It has been the means
of saving more pain and suffering than any other known remedy. Thousands of
mothers in all parts of the world have given it to their children and now sing its
praises. This medicine is especially valuable in checking Diarrhoea which nearly
always attacks the babies when teething. One dose will relieve pains in the stomach
and it seldom takes more than three or four doses to stop a severe attack of Diarrhoea.
Always take Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy at the first unusual
looseness of the bowels. There is no class of ailments that attack the system quicker
than bowel complaints and when a medicine is wanted it is wanted quickly. What
has made Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy so popular is that the relief
is just as quick. It is a medicine that should be kept in the home at all times and we
advise you to procure a bottle at once, for it will save trouble later on and perhaps be
the means of saving a life.
4)
<o
fa
i
m
at
When you have a bad taste in your mouth
and your breath is foul you may know you
need a dose of Chamberlain’s Tablets.
They will cleanse your stomach, improve
your appetite and make)you feel like a
new man. They are just ± the thing for
the stomach and liver.
matther, mahn? Gome forrud, an’ don’ be
shkulkin’ in the dar-rk like a thafe.”
There was no reply, save an avalanche of
mosquitoes and a daddy-long-legs, straight
off the ice, so to speak. Peg Leg drove them
off his inflamed visage. His guests sur-
rounded him in the doorway. With muddled
inquiries and idiotic advice they added to
the gaiety of wakes.
Standing on his good leg Finnerty probed
the darkness with his wooden one. He made
feints with it, thrusts and parries at
nothing.
“Tip, tap!” rang the knocker again, as
Carroty, emboldened by gin, gave it another
tweak. The waiting, peering group swayed
heavily with surprise. Some hinted at the
supernatural.
“Come in!” thundered Peg Leg, his eyes
glaring like bonfires. “Come in, whoever ye
ar-re, afore Oi pull tli’ head off av ye. Ye
low-bor-rn schoundrel t’ come dish-turbin’
av th’ paceful dhid.”
This sentiment found great support among
Finnerty’s comforters.
“The tlirue-est worrd iver wuz sliaid,”
they asserted. “Knarekin’ —annoyin’ th’
corpse—can’t lie quiet in her bed —pore
dacent body—shameful—some thafe av a
felly,” cried the ladies. “Shoot tli’ divil,
Finnerty, an’ be done wid him,” advised the
men. “Tip, tap!”
“Phwat!” screamed Finnerty, now fully
roused. “Ut must be the Divil himself!
Come an, all of yez!” he turned to his
friends. “You, Tirence, an’ O’Shea, get your
shticks—we’ll tackle the thafe. The wimmin
ud best shtay insoide. Ye’ve got your shticks?
Oi’ll take me—me” (he groped about the
passage floor) —“me” —grunt —“me bottle,
when Oi can find ut, an’ do somebody a
liur-rt. Me bottle! !” he cried as the mili-
tant mourners surged round him. “Whure
is ut? Whure’s me bottle o’ gin Oi left
handy by the dhure?”
He raised a flat red face, tremulous with
rage. All the blood in his body had run into it.
“Ye dun-no,” he said frenziedly. “Ye
haven’t seen no bottle?”
“No, no,” asseverated some, justly wounded.
“It’s a loi,” cried Finnerty. He turned
agonised and suspicious eyes on the company
and tore his hair.
“Oi left ut shtandin’ in the passage. Some
thafe has shtole ut!”
They resented his accusing manner, and
called him “Liar!” elbowing him roughly.
He retaliated with blows on shin bones, his
wooden leg being the weapon. All were
excited and suspicious. Every man was
against his neighbor. Peg Leg w»' against
the whole boiling.
In this new trouble the mysterious visitant
was forgotten.
“Who shtole me bottle?” cried the bereft,
his lamentations ringing true for the first
time that evening. “Who shtole ut?”
He rushed through the house blaspheming.
He dug with his wooden member under the
bier in search of the missing bottle. He over-
turned chairs and thrust his wooden leg
almost into the vitals of his guests.
Then they thought of the tip-tapper.
“He shtole ut.”
They needed no further proof. Like a
game of hare and hounds the whole batch
tore on'; of the house in search. Round the
narrow garden they bolted with curses and
exclamations.
“The crik !” cried someone, rich in imag-
ination. “He’s jumped into the crik. I seen
the hair av him. Whoo, whoosh ! whroo!”
With a mad rush they reached the fence
and leaped upon it. For one sickening
moment "they poised upon it. Then, with a
long creaking sigh, the fence gave up its
wooden ghost and the creek received them
into its bosom. In the pale moonlight two
boys scuttled homewards. Down on the
creek-bed were profanity, weeping and the
tattooing of a wooden leg. Within the house
“ole Miss Finnerty” preserved a dead silence.
WEEROONA.
A Born Lady on a Tram.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A LADY in a grimy black dress stood
stiffly waiting for a tram. Her face
was very flushed, and a small, faded
black toque, fastened under the chin with
equally faded black ribbons, was slightly
tipped over the left eye. Slung on one arm
was a large oil-baize home-made bag, from
the edge of which the neck of a capsuled
bottle looked out. There was a good deal of
vehicular traffic, but the lady never budged
from her position close by the tram rails.
There was that in her attitude which pro-
claimed to all that she fully understood, and
was eager to uphold, her position as a re-
spectable member of the community. Though
she was dressed in her best, the rude wind
showed that she had come out with a very
old pair of slippers on.
When a tram appeared in the far distance
she began to vehemently signal with the big
oil-baize bag, which kept waving right till
the tram stopped. There was some difficulty
in getting in, that work requiring the assist-
ance of the conductor. When she was finally
helped on to the platform it seemed she had
left one of her slippers behind, and she
showed signs of becoming excited. The con-
ductor restored the slipper, and in her eager-
ness to see that it was not being left behind
she dropped the big oil-baize bag overboard.
At length the tram started with a jerk, and
the lady, who was half-way up the car,
started to run backwards, as people will
when taken unawares, but was held up by
the conductor. She still kept her dignity.
Nothing could upset that proud demeanor.
When she sat down she placed the oil-
baize bag on the silk dress of a lady sitting
next to her. Then she gracefully arranged
her skirt, and proudly put a stray lock of
hair in nosition, and tilted her toque on to
the other eye with the idea of getting it
straight. Also she modestly rearranged her
skirts as she noticed that the old slippers
could be seen, and after that she sat bolt
upright.
She looked round. First glance showed a
fashionably-dressed young lady opposite, and
her ba k stiffened. From passenger to pas-
senger her dignified gaze wandered, and each
passenger was just as fashionably dressed as
the first. It was a car nearly full of wealthy
Jewesses going down town to do the Block.
As this fact slowly dawned upon her, her dig-
nity swelled till she began to look much like
the traditional frog. Her look of lofty dis-
dain was somewhat spoiled by the toque
slipping totally over one eye.
At length dumb-show could not express
her feelings, and she started to mutter to
herself in an undertone, but never forget-
ting that she was a lady born. Her words
gradually became audible. She tossed her
head, which put her bonnet at still another
angle.
“Hoity-toifyy!” she snorted at length.
“Wot swells we are, to be sure! W’y didn’t
Hi put on me ’obble, en me ’at like a cart-
wheel? We are the only bunch in the basket,
Hi don’t think !’’
She looked from one to another critically,
and said, with intense disgust: “Enough ter
make yer sick! Wonner if it’s hall paid
for!”
The other ladies began to put on an ex-
pression of not knowing that the excited
creature existed. She gave another look like
a connoisseur at a dog show, and sat on the
very edge of the seat with a lady-like atti-
tude, clasping her hands. Then she tossed
her toque into another angle, and said to
somebody invisible:
“W’y didn’t Hi come out in me motor?”
She seemed to listen for a reply.
“Oh, liof course! Hi forgot. Me shover
is sick.”
Then she glanced round as if the ladies
were so much dirt, and said, disdainfully:
“Hi wonner we rides bin dirty trams,
a-spoilin’ of our fine ’obbles.”
Again she listened to her invisible friend.
“W’y didn’t Hi take a cab, eh? ’Ow could
Hi take a cab w’en Hi has ter pay for all
this feather and frill? A course Ili couldn’t
take a cab. ’Ow could Hi take a cab w’en
Hi on’y ’as tuppence?”
She seemed to expect that this last obser-
vation would bring a heated reply from some-
one in the tram, and she was evidently get-
ting ready for active hostilities; but the
Jewesses and other ladies only looked more
wooden than ever, excepting those at the
far end, who seemed to take the matter more
humorously in a very genteel sort of way.
The lady with the big oil-baize bag now
began to bestow her whole attention on a
very young lady in a Magyar blouse, who
sat exactly opposite. She stared critically
at the dainty creature from head to foot, a
forefinger stuck in one of her cheeks, saying
“urn” several times.
“Hopen worked stockin’s,” she remarked
with an appraising manner. “Dm! Buy
’em three pairs for eightpence ’a’penny at
Hanthony ’Ordern’s. Um. Wearin’ of a
Peter Pan’s collar, too. Very purty, but wot
Hi don’t like about Peter Pan’s is yer ’ave
ter wash yer neck.”
The girl flushed blood red. A stony look
came into her eyes, and this seemed to give
delight to the lady with the big oil-baize bag.
“Hi wonner hif hit’s all bin paid for?” she
remarked, taking in with a glance the whole
girl, from hat to shoes. It might have been
a dressmaker’s model decked in the latest
Parisian fashion in a Pitt-street emporium.
Gradually her expression took <.m the man-
ner which women have when they visit a
bargain counter. She pursed her lips, a keen
look came into her eyes as if she had money
to spend and she meant that no didactic
draper’s assistant living should mesmerise
her into a foolish investment.
“The ways mothers dress their gels fair
beats me,” she said, her head on one side.
“Now, if you wuz my gel”- And she
paused as if she hadn’t words to explain
what was in her mind. “Hof course,” she
said decisively, “hevery mother to ’er hown
way hof thinkin’. Hit’s that mixed bathin’.
When Hi was a gel we wasn’t s’posed to
’ave legs, en as for showin’ yer bosom as yer
does now”— — By a shake of her head she
denoted that it was past words. “Fust hof
hall it was the bicycle. Before the bicycle,
if a gel wanted to get through a fence she
jammed ’er skirt down so you couldn’t see a
hinck of stockin’. Then comes along mixed
bathin’, en hafter that the ’obble, en next
thing it will be goodness knows what. You
can sit down,” she said suddenly to a lady
who had just entered and was holding on to
a strap, and she pushed her big oil-baize bag
on to the floor to make room.
“I don’t mind standing,” said the lady
sweetly.
“His it because yer don’t want ter sit next
ter me?” she asked.
A look of apprehension came over the lady.
“Because hif it his, let me tell yer that
Hi’m a born lady, en jest as good as you,
en better hif the truth is known, though Hi’m
not dressed in an ’obble skirt en a Peter
Pan’s collar, which is angin’ up in me ward-
robe, me bein’ in an ’urry when I come out,
as a lady will be at times. P’rhaos yer think
it would demean yer to sit beside a woman
who is older enough ter be yer mother? Do
yer think Hi would contaminate yer, ma’am?”
She spoke tearfully.
“Not at all,” said the lady. “But I pi-efer
to stand.”
“To think that Hi ’ave come out ter be
hinsulted !” said the lady who possessed the
big oil-baize bag, bursting into tears. “Oh,
that my poor dear dead ’usband was ’ere in-
stead of lyin’ in his grave ter ’ear me spoken
of like this, me a poor hunprotected woman
liout in an ’ard, ’eartless world. Ilis there no-
one ’ere who will stand hup for a lady who
’as seen better days?” She looked round
imploringly with big tears rolling down her
cheeks. “Lot of miserable hupstarts,” she
cried when she saw her appeal had fallen
upon unsympathetic ears. “Has soon as I
got into the tram Hi knowed wot yer was.
No ladies, Hi’m sure. Hif Hi was ter die
this minute none of ver would ’old a smellin’
bottle to me nose. Oh, if me poor dead ’us-
band was to rise from his grave! He would
scatter yer like a lot of ’ens in a fowl-yard.
’Eaven help me. ’As it come to this? Hi’ll
never ’old of me ’ead up again, poor woman
as Hi am.”
She could speak no more. Pier sobs were
convulsive at first, but gradually grew hys-
terical. evidently through the attempt to sup-
press them. At length she gave way, as a
born lady will at times, and sank to the
floor and caused a panic by kicking up her
heels immodestly. The conductor had to in-
tervene. He shook her roughly by the
shoulder, which arrested her piteous cries
for a moment, but when she saw who it
was she screamed worse than ever. The
tram was stopped, and the driver assisted to
deposit the poor lady in the road, her slippers
and big oil-baize bag beside her.
As the tram glided away she sat up and
put on her slippers. All her dignity was
gone, but she had the look of a lady who had
just had an immensely good time.
ROBERT BROTHERS.


WESTINGHOUSE
...CHAIN DRIVES
Hi
m
a= -m
1
■
:.:A S
For heavy machine tool
WORK, and for every type
of high-speed power trans-
mission, WESTINGHOUSE (Morse
CHAIN DRIVES are pre-eminent
because of their patented feature,
The Rocker Joint,
which eliminates sliding friction
at the joint and the consequent
loss of power.
Full ParticuJ ars from
e Brake Co. of
•I
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane
New Zealand Agents—Philips & Pike, Wellington.
CONCOR
TWO GOOD LINES FOR STEAM USERS
A
NOT a Boiler Fluid, but a Preparation containing Pure Carbon to be applied
to the internal surfaces of boilers like a paint. Absolutely prevents pitting and
corrosion and the deposit of hard scale. Used regularly by the New South
Wales Government Railways and Tramways, Sydney Municipal Council, and
many of the Largest Steam Users in Australia.
AULD’S REDUCING VALVES.
The World's Standard Reducing Valve for Steam, Air or Water. Simple and
Reliable. Hundreds in use in Australia. We carry heavy stocks of all sizes.
ALSO AGENTS FOR-
Engelbert’s Famous Oils, Nichols’ Boiler Feed Pumps,
Stirling Water Tube Boilers, etc., etc.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Metz-“22£190
The Simple Car for the Country.
These Serviceable Cars are at Work all over N.S.W.
If you require a Simple, Economical, Reliable and Moderitely-priced Car it will
J °u 'l° ie Friction Drive (eliminating complicated
gear wheels), -11. p., 4 C yl. Bosch Ignition, clearance, 45m. p. hour,
00m. p. gallon.
Brown 8 Hellicar Ltd.,
375 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
The British-built
Waverley, *350.
Indian Motocycles,
GOLDFIELDS DIAMOND DRILLING CO. Pty.Ltd.
331 COLL9NS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works-Sturt St., South Melbourne.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Armstrong Traction Weil-Boring Machine
MOVES WITHOUT HORSES
RUMELY KEROSENE
OIL TRACTORS.
ALL-STEEL BORING PLANTS,
TOOLS AND CASING.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines,
Pumps, Windmills, Silos, Hay
Presses, Wagons, etc., etc.
THE LONE HAND
th_^ S " e ' V s h a P e and style has proved extremely popular. Every copy of
as wo nunneis was sold almost immediately after publication.
S Xat l ional Magazine will contain some big features during
subscribe f ou cannot aiford to miss a single number. Why not
subscribe? 1 ost free throughout Australia, 0/-; Foreign, 9/-
vj ■■
THAT
fp
V.
/> r\
m
i
m
in
7
V
5\)'MTTT
and you \i
can always |
count on
*
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager.
a
2$
£*
S 3
2*
20th Century Band Saw
KIRCHNERS
Woodworking Machines
are giving satisfaction.
Write for Catalogue and Information
direct to the
MANUFACTURERS—
KIRCHNER & CO.,
32 Market Street, SYDNEY
Automatic
Knife Grinding
Machine.
,: !i :
m
We a!so Stock:—
Drilling Machines,
Punching' Machines,
Shaping Machines,
Milling Machines,
Hack Saw Machines,
Blowers,
Power Hammers,
Morse Goods,
And a Full Range
of Accessories.
The -
“ASTER” Lathe
Will Suit You.
It has a large range of usefulness that makes it very
popular with the precise worker. It has 5-inch
centres, runs in outside spring conical boxes, which
do not alter the axial position of the spindles by
adjustment. The spindle is also provided with face
ball-bearings. Whitworth and Metric pitches may be
cut on the “Aster”—as well as gas-pipe threads. Ask
our machine tool expert to go into' the merits of the
“Aster” with you.
T. M. GOOMLL 8 CO. Ltd.
Universal Machinery Merchants,
303-5 Kent Street, Sydney*.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
mackT ltd.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office : 19 Queen Street.
Y
(
V
m
12in. Fan
taking
45 Watts
FANS
For All Voltages
and Systems.
Stocked in Desk. Wall and Ceiling Types.
Rigid Body. Swivel and Trunnion, and Oscillating Patterns.
PRICES MODERATE. Send for Lists.
OF AUSTRALIA Lro>
SYDNEY: Wynyard Lane. 3520 City.
MELBOURNE: 61 William Street. 6117 City.
BRISBANE: Corner Saul 8 Roma Streets. 3676 central
as
■j
It is the
Your B
Transmits
that
Counts.
Be
Sure
and
Specify
DICK'S
BELTING
' Sole Agexts—
Jas. Hardie § Co.
PiroularQuay,
SYDNEY.
And MELBOURNE.
TH
WhSfkl
%
I
3?.
m
s
00
Uj
D ALGETY «rC9LT°
■ ACEBTS^—
U
V£l
■Mmtaatamj
Union ” Harvester.
m
Clayton & Shiutleworth
Portable Steam Engine.
Tangye Kerosene Oil Engine
DALGETY 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Machinery Merchants, Miller’s Point, SYDNEY, and all Branches.
AGENCIES
Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Steam Engines, Boilers, Pumps of all
descriptions, Winches, Chain Blocks, Hydraulic Jacks, Screw Jacks, Bears, etc., etc.
9:® HIJTTLEWORTH: Portable Steam & Traction Engines, Steam Road Rollers, etc.
? MORROW: “Union” Farm Implements, comprising Harvesters, Drills, etc.
WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines. MUNRO Chaffcutters and Saw Benches.
GANE MILKING MACHINES.
Yale 8 Towne Manufacturing Co.’s Hoists
t We , ha X e ? arffe stocks of Chain Hoists made by the above Co.
Kinds and -0 sizes to handle every Hoisting need.
The Triplex for speed;
We have four
'The Duplex for handiness;
The Differential is the cheapest reliable chain block; and
The Electric for rapid hoisting.
Steel Gears. Steel Sheave. Steel Chain. Steel Hooks. Steel Cover.
The safety of every Triplex Block is guaranteed.
We would like to show you them in operation, or we would post you Catalogue
and Brices on application.
H. P. GREGORY CO.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET. SYDN
-7KX
■
• i
?- V
NAT
OIL ENGINES
9 to 300 Horse-power.
fIARINE and
Stationary Models
using Residual Oil.
Consumption—
per B.H.P.
per hour.
For Prices and full partial-
lars apply to Sole Agents:
WARBURTON, FRANK!, LTD.,
307-311
SYI
t Street,
: Y.
is
f
AR GEDYE 8
STREET,
jY,
The utmost in quality and
workmanship ,
All parts guaranteed to fit
the Wolseley.
Lister spare parts are un-
equalled. Get them -
W 7
SUNSHINE ENGINES
for driving Chaffcutters, Saw Benches, Pumps, Dynamos, Graders, Hoists, Mortar Mills, etc.
Vic. Adelaide Brisbane— Sydney— Melbourne.
Wjji
tM
\
\
Wj
Showing Method of
Mixing Ingredients.
YOUR
using
RENDROCK
(Patent Explosive Compound)
The Cheapest Farm Help.
WILL blast trees and stumps—break hard pan—dig ditches—subsoil, etc.
Now being used successfully by Agriculturists and Vignerons throughout Australia.
Ask for our Illustr ed Pamphlet, giving full particulars and instructions for use.
No Magazine required. Forwarded as ordinary merchandise.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS—
;
N.
' >A; r ;
■
_
Equitable Buildings, Sydney
Church Lane, Melbourne
