

thfe Whisky of Sterling Value
R. C3r. WATKINS «&& 00.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR— _ _
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
Oxx all Classes of SECURITY.
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
M 5-W- MONT DE PIETE D SI C? Lip
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
at
Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street* Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
BS! miifllflfO
1
KTiTTg To™ d iT.-SS
-
w
Supplied by the bottle, case or gallon at
wholesale price.
Richardso
Wine & Spirit St
68 Market St.,
158 Russell St.,
MELBOURNE.
c>,
.Hutton!^
Bacon
9
FIRE
RESISTING
S A Fits.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
Ji
HANSEN’S
dfgd
F or INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
BCOB.A.£tT.
3UK
fgd
The Best for Rough Roads.
The impregnated rubber-cord foundation of these tyres enables
them to resist moisture, strain and friction. Catalogue free.
THE SILYERTQWN RUBBER CO., Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne.
">*l
Tl
3HCT
m
rri
T 1
n »*
•.* A- •-» u
"htH
f- l
m
for Smart Effect
If you are satisfied with any old kind of a house, any old kind of roofing will do you; but if you
want a home that has Style and Smartness you will need to choose your roofing with care. There
are several good roofing materials, but we believe White Malthoid is the best of them all. It
will not crack, chip nor peel off. It will not burn. It will not leak. It will keep the house
cool in summer and warm in winter, for it is asbestos coated. May we send you illustrated
booklets and samples?
*
r
L
CHallis House,
EVANS, Australasian. Manager),
Manufacturers of Amiwud ,
SYDNEY.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T -
f
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T?
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
HELIDON SPA
The Helidon Spa Water Co., in its extensive distribution, has
placed “ the rational water cure ” within reach of all.
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
■lifi
The Bulletin
Yol. 35.—N0. 1820.]
[Thursday, December 31, 1914.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


ITERATURE
at 1/4 per vol.
Post Free.
The Best, of the World’s Literature, in Fiction, Poetry, History, Biography,
Philosophy and Science.
Authors such as Shakspeare. Scott. Dickens, Thackeray, Balzac, Dumas, Lytton, Darwin, Holmes, Eliot,
Emerson, Carlyle, Austen, Lamb, Reade, Macaulay, etc., etc. are represented.
Size, 6x4 inches. On thin and opaque paper. Write for full lists. Sent Post Free
At GEORGE ROBERTSON S CO. PROPTY LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
1 'wL ■ m'\
KILLS ALL
Death to Flies, Cock-
roaches, Mosquitoes,
Fleas and Bugs.
- **
i.s
Wk'
■A
MUSTDIE BLOWER.
The “MUSTDIE” Blower is recommended to be
used, for it is not only economical but the powder is
distributed more effectively, and we want you to get
the best results out of every ounce of the powder.
If you have any difficulty in obtaining “MUSTDIE,” forward 9d. in Stamps to Dept. H., Box
1520, G.P.0., Sydney, or write for trial sample, forwarded post free.;
AGENCIES IN ALL THE AUSTRALIAN STATES. [3
The Red Page
Pantoumime
The pantoum may now regard herself as
acclimatised in Australasia. The 35 speci-
mens submitted show her in many moods.
In her native haunts she is a melancholy,
monotonous creature, always repeating her-
self, rather depressing as a companion for
the lync and the sonnet. But, transported
to Australian skies, she brightens up, becomes
gay; sometimes she even develops a sense of
humor. The sunlight has got into her lan-
guid veins; compelled to echo herself she
contrives to make her repetition sound
almost like repartee.
Good, but undistinguished, pantoums were
submitted by Id. C. Wilson, R. R. Rede,
Sl d \,?* dman ’ Bartlett Adamson, Austin
Biff, Ethel Pawley. “Emo” (3), Nellie A.
Eimns, “Mick Much,” L. J. Villiers, “Beth,”
8.G., L.W.N., “Rachael.”
In the humorous division, “B” begins well
with :• —
Yer right, this pantoum’s a fair cow,
A cow wot thinks she’s got yer bilked ;
The blighter’s tough, as ye’fi allow:
1 ve simply gotter get ’er milked.
but, becoming agricultural, he loses his
allegory. . Edwin A. Connelly also attempts
a definition, but fails to answer his own
question:—
Oh, welcome! Pantoum, dainty maid,
Neglected of the muse’s pets ;
Why have they kept you in the shade
To woo less fairer flapperettes ?
Space is jealously accorded to two pan-
toums, the pantoum pathetic and the pan-
toum topical:—
BEREFT..
The maiden gazed into the sea ;
The green waves crooned a lullaby.
“O, Lord!” she said, “oh, pity me!”
The seabirds shrieked a hoarse reply.
The green waves crooned a lullaby ;
She murmured words of grim despair.
The seabirds shrieked a hoarse reply ;
The sea wind ravaged her dark "hair.
She murmured words of grim despair,
“Oh, everrtreacherous green sea!”
The sea wind ravaged her dark hair:
Her lover slept unheedingly.
“Oh, ever-treacherous green sea!”
. The salt waves lapped around her thighs.
Her lover slept unheedingly,
And no one heard her troubled cries.
The salt waves lapped around her thighs.
Her face seemed drawn with care and woe,
And no one heard her ti’oubled cries,
Her dulcet voice was garbled so.
Her face seemed drawn with care and woe.
The breakers moaned along the beach.
Her dulcet voice was garbled so
Because her teeth were out of reach.
The breakers moaned along the beach.
The maiden gazed into the sea.
Because her teeth were out of reach,
“0 Lordth,” she said. “Oh, pithy me!”
PONTIUS POTTER.
KAISER BILL.
What’s the matter with Kaiser Bill?
What’s he making this rumpus for?
Why don’t someone give him a pill—■
Give him a lead tun, stop the war ?
W’hat’s he making this rumpus for?
.Hasn’t the man got all he wants?'
Give him a lead ’un, stop the war,
Put an end to his mil’t’ry stunts.
Hasn’t the man got all he wants—
Little tin soldiers, Kruppses fine?
Put an end to his mil’t’ry stunts—
Bad Boy of Europe lays the mine.
Little tin soldiers, Kruppses fine,
Make him put them back in the box—
Bad Boy of Europe lays the inine—
Put him safe on some coral rocks.
Make him put them back in the box,
Make him shut them up with a slam,
Put him safe on some coral rocks,
Europe’s Bad Boy wants all the jam.
Make him shut them up with a slam—
W’hat’s the mafter with Kaiser Bill ?
Europe’s Bad Boy wants all the jaw.
Why don’t someone give him a pill ?
EMO.
Ten pantoums remain for final sifting.
L. Sparrow and S. Elliott Napier write neat
and scholarly pantoums, the former on
“Wine and Woman,” the latter on “Books” ;
hut both suffer from the congenital monotony
of this verse-form —and neither is deliber-
ately meant to be monotonous. Charles F.
Pettinger makes a virtue out of the pan-
toum’s necessity, devoting himself success-
fully to evoking the atmosphere of “The
Stormy Day.” But the pantoum, as will
be seen, may have more in her than mon-
otony. A. Gore-Jones cannot help being
monotonous where she means only to, be
sad; though her pantoum is technically excel-
lent. “Jane,” who writes hilariously on pink
paper from a Macquarie-street address, offers
some cheerfully-bad advice to the Young;
but both these efforts fail to exhaust the
higher possibilities of this form. These lie
in the cunning with which the repeated lines
are brought in, either in another sense, or
by their conjunction with the new line tak-
ing on a new meaning. The Reversolet and
the Rhymbel have already schooled our bards
in this technicality.
This peculiar use of the pantoum is ad-
mirably seized upon by Nina Murdoch, whose
“Proof-Readers,” though fiot a prize-winner,
will doubtless appear in “The Inky Way.”
Nellie A. Evans and M.II. make pantoum-
poetry of the highest class; though their
.merit as pantoums is hardly as high as
their merit as poems.
THE DARK DAYS.
The days are like black swans that mourning
fly
Heavily towards the west at eventide,
And there is no more gladness in the sky —
Our hearts go sorrowing o’er the waters
wide.
Heavily towards the west at eventide,
Sinks the low sun and dips the land in red.
Our hearts go sorrowing o’er the waters
wide —
Seek we to-day the living or the dead?
Sinks the low sun and dips the land in red,
The gum-trees flash their glint of sudden
steel —
Seek we to-day the living or the dead?
We beat the doors of Heaven in blind
» appeal.
The gum-trees flash their glint of sudden steel,
The stealthy darkness slips from shade to
shade,
We beat the doors of Heaven in blind appeal,
(We hear the ocean’s ceaseless cannonade) ,
The stealthy , darkness slips from shade to
shade.
Whisper the cable wires that clasp the
-world
(We hear the ocean’s ceaseless cannonade.)
“Duty and honor and the flag unfurled.”
Whisper the cable wires that clasp the icorld,
“This is the hour, mould tee our destiny —
Duty and honor and the flag ‘ unfurled —
Peace on our coasts, the lordship of the
sea.”
“This is the hour, mould we our destiny,”
Oh, valiant grain of that fierce harvest-
ing —
“ Peace on our coasts, the lordslvr of the
sea,”
Sore is the thrice tee pay, the gift we bring!
Oh, valiant grain of that, fierce harvesting!
'The days are like black swans that
mourning fly,
Sore is the price we pay, the gift ice bring.
And there is no more gladness in the sky.
M.H.
THE WHITE ROAD.
In the dew-time and the daytime, in the time
of toil or rest,
When the marvel and the magic of the
morn is on the hills,
Do you ever dream, I wonder, of a white
road in the west,
Where the valleys call and clamor with
the song of many rills?
When the marvel and the magic of the morn
is, on the hills
I can see the white road gleaming, that we
shall, not know again.
Where the valleys call and clamor %vith the
song of many rills
I shall .dream I wait your coming, though I
know the dreaming vain.
I can see the white road gleaming that toe
shall not know -again,
Like an arrow dropped from Heaven on
the dewy hills of green,
I shall dream I wait your coming, though I
know the dreaming vain —•
Ah, the vows we vowed are broken and
the seas are set between!
Like ,an arrow dropped from Heaven on the
dewy hills of green
Runs the road that knew the glory that
the soul may not forget.
Ah, the votes we voiced are broken, and the
seas are set between —-
Do you think, 0 Heart’s Beloved, that the
road remembers yet?
Runs the road that knew th'e glory that the
soul may not forget,
For the gods themselves are powerless
where the memory sets its , seal;
Do you think, O Heart’s Beloved, that the
road, remembers yet,
At the sound of hot hoofs beating, and the
jingle of the steel?
For the gods themselves are poioeHess where
the .memory sets its seal.
In the dew-time, and the daytime, in the
time of toil or rest,
At the sound of hot hoofs beating, and the
jingle of the steel,
Do you ever dream,, I wonder, of a white
road in the west?
Nellie A. Evans.
The choice lies between Gordon J. Holmes
and R, G. Henderson. Holmes’s “A
Summer Vision” is frivolously light; but
its technical cleverness is undeniable. Both
he and Henderson get the “kick” in the last
stanza that is necessary for the complete-
ness of this form. In fact, the first rule in
pantoumery should be to write the final
stanza first. But the tragic theme of R. G.
Henderson (Lindsay-street, Hamilton,
N.S.W.) and the brilliant way he has
worked it out, with an equal " ability in
pantoum-technique, gives him the prize.
Space rates will be paid for all contributions
printed.
A SUMMER VISION.
Fair Chloe in her silken dress
A wealth of graceful charms reveals,
But little else, I must confess,
My lady’s rounded form conceals.
A loealtli of graceful charms reveals
The western sun in silhouette.
My lady’s rounded form conceals
A faithless heart —the gay coquette!
The western sun in silhouette
% Each white and dainty limb displays,
A faithless heart the gay coquette
Most modestly hides from his gaze.
Each white and dainty limb displays
An aureole of filmy lace,
Most modestly hides from his gaze
The veiled beauty of her face.
An aureole of filmy lace,
The flag of truce, each round knee flies.
The veiled beauty of her face
Must shielded be from vulgar eyes.
The flag of truce each round knee flies;
Above her jewelled garter’s gleam
Must hidden be from vulgar eyes —
Things are not always as they seem!
Above her jewelled garter’s gleam—
See! where the sun is going down!
( Things are not always as they seem!)
Displeased, she wears a sudden frown.
See, where the sun is going down,
Fair Chloe in her silken dress!
Displeased, she wears a sudden frown,
But title else, I must confess.
GORDON J. HOLMES.
PANTOUM.
By R. G. HENDERSON.
It strikes me with dull amaze:
“No change from Verdun to the Aisne.”
Cold and official the phrase,
But it covers a world of pain.
“No change from Verdun to the Aisne.”
’Tis the moderation of Hell,
But it covers a world of pain ....
To lie 'with him there would be ivell.
’Tis the moderation of Hell;
Only one or two thousand dead....
To lie with him there would be loell,
Where the green grass is spotted with red,
Only one or two thousand dead—
Thanks be to the mercy of Death!
Where the green grass is spotted with red,
The sobs would not choke my breath.
Thanks be to the mercy of Death,
Here too can lie kill—and be kind.
The sobs would not choke my breath . . . .
They would say, “While of unsound mind.”
Here too can he kill—and be kind.
It strikes me with dull amaze.
They would son “While of unsound mind”...
Cold and official the phrase.
A Chant of Jlatc , translated from the
German of Ernst Lissauer, has this for re-
frain :—
You will we hate with a lasting hate,
We will, never forego our hate,
Hate by water and hate by land,
Hate of the head and hate of the hand,
Hate of the hammer and hate of the crown,
Hate of seventy millions, choking down.
We love as one, we hate as one,
We have one foe and one alone—
ENGLAND!
To which Arttiwr H. Adams replies in My
Friend, Remember! (published in pamphlet
form with the German poem, by Angus and
Robertson, 6d.). The reply begins:—
We thank you, Germany, we thank
You for your bitter hatred frank.
Your curse is branded on your brow:
Traitor and spy, we know you now:
One pestilence this earth must shun,
One Judas-Race, and only one.
And when a blood-stained peace is born
This vow eternal we have sworn:
Never compact with you to make,
Never a German hand to shake,
Never a German word to take—
The plighted word that Germans break!
Never forget, through good and ill,
A German is a German still.
My friend, when peace cofhes, soon or late,
Remember: GERMANY IS HATE!
Whitcombe and Tombs are to be con-
gratulated on having published Edward S.
Sorenson’s delightful nature studies,
Friends and Foes in the Australian Bush
(7s. 6d.), but they are to be criticised for
having, spoiled, it in the making. Sorenson
knows his Australian fauna well: and he
has added to this the right literary touch,
and a facile narrative art. He tells the life-
stories of the inhabitants of the hush, from
bower-bird to wombat, from, gohanna to
platypus, in a way that will delight the
animal lover, interest the ordinary Austra-
lian, and entertain the intelligent Australian
kid. But his collaborateur, Ernest E. Baker,
who does the illustration and the decoration
of this work, lias failed to rise to the
author’s level. Baker’s tinted illustrations
are doubtless correct, but his decorations are
stiff and inartistic. And the publishers
must know that the sale of a book of this
sort largely depends upon the attractiveness
of its dress. It is not as if there were no
other animal artists in Australia.
Just the books for the Australian Christ-
mas kid : Scribbling Sue, and Other Stories,
fairy tales of the Bush, by Amy Eleanor
Mack (3s. 6d.) ; the same author’s Bushland
Stories, second edition (3s. 6d.) ; and Ethel
C. Pedley’s well-known Dot and the Kanga-
roo (2s. 6d.) ; all well illustrated, the last
two in color (Angus and Robertson, Syd-
ney).
Recent shilling reprints include New
Worlds for Old, by H. G. Wells (Constable) ;
The House of Cobwebs, by George Gissing
(Constable), and The Lure of Crooning
Water, a pleasant U.S. tale, by- Marion Hill
(Long).
The War
liivers of blood are flowing in Europe.;
rivers of war books are flowing fro 1?. , ,
publishers’ presses. Every book publisnea
within the last decade that remotely bears
warfare or any of the combatants is t>ein»
re-issued in a cheap edition. Anybody,
isn’t fighting is writing about the fighting.
Even Tommy Atkins. His brief letters t
his pals at home have been captured by tne
enterprising nublisher. Here is Atkins
War , compiled by James A. Kilpatrick
(Jenkins). It is a nice little book, the real
thing, not the special correspondent s purpl
patches. Here are a few snatches of inter-
esting aspects of fighting. “The whole sen-
sation of fear (on the battlefield) is, atro-
phied. We don't care a farthing for our
lives. We don’t think of danger. In tins
new frame of mind we simply go and do tne
perfectly normal, natural things that you
call heroism.” A party of artillerymen ran
into a troop of horsemen in the dark. "e
thought they were Germans.... until we
heard someone sing out, ‘Where the Hell do
you think you’re going to?’ Then we knew
we were with friends.” “This is a war.
exclaimed Tommy wnen he got a paper with
the football news shot away by a fragment
of shell. “Our fellows have signed the pledge
because Kitchener wants them to. But they
all say, ‘God help the Germans when we get
hold of them, for making us teetotal.’ ” The
Scotch variant of the song is, “It’s a long
way to Inveraray.” And this is the sort of
lyric that our song writers fail to write, the
song that Tommy sings :
Send out the Army and Navy,
Send out the rank and file (Have a banana!),
Send out the brave Territorials,
They easily can run a mile. (I don’t think!),
Send out the boys’ and the girls’ brigade,
They will keep old England free:
Send out my mother, my sister, and my brother,
But for goodness sake, don’t send me.
Finally, writes an officer: “If ever I come
back, and anybody at home talks to me about
the glory of war, I shall be damned rude to
him.”
J* .'7%'H if
This war has done some good: it lias con-
vinced the doubters who thought that the
aeroplane was an unreliable toy. The aero-
plane has utterly revolutionised warfare:
there are no secrets now; each, combatant
knows immediately what the other is doing,
and where he is : the aeroplane exposes all
the cards. And the same arm has speeded
up warfare, because there are now no delays
while rival commanders are fumbling in the
dark in endeavors to discover the enemy’s
dispositions. There is no dark. As soon as one
army comes into contact with another the
job starts. A useful account of the Third
Arm is supplied in the shilling book, Aircraft
in the German War, by 11. Massac Buist
(Methuen). The first, widest and last use
of the aeroplane in this war is'scouting.
And how thoroughly and systematically it
is being done ! The aerial reconnaisance of
the British army is kept going day and night.
Each aviator is given a certain territory to
observe, and each has to report on that terri-
tory at regular intervals. He must bring in
accurate reports of what he observes,
whether he knows the meaning of it or not.
These reports are collated by the Headquart-
ers Staff. How, for instance, did the British
army find put that Germany, at one stage,
was moving masses of troops from the west-
ern theatre of operations (in France) to the
eastern one?
“The individual airmen scouting did not
bring the news in that form. What occurred
was that the Headquarters Staff concerned
with collating reports of different air-scouts
observed that at different stations along dif-
ferent railway lines there were various
trains in waiting with steam up. Thereupon
aviators were detailed to make observation
of the railway lines for 40 miles behind the
enemy’s front, whereupon it was discovered
that the original information was correct
and was emphasised in every way. Observa-
tion still later confirmed this by revealing
that the trains were no longer waiting in
these stations arid were not to be found in a
more westerly'direction, therefore they must
have gone east.”
Why is it that Germany has giant Zeppe-
lins and Britain only small, non-rigid dirig-
ibles? Simply because our air-ships are
meant for transport abroad ; they must be
capable of being anchored in the open and
deflated in a few minutes. Our army has
more aeroplanes per man than any of the
other armies employed. The reason is the
comparative smallness of our army. Also,
our aero-engines are as good as the'best. In
sea-planes the British proved this year in
international competition their superiority
over even the French. It will doubtless be
news to many that Germany possesses a great
elaborate system of beacons for air-craft
throughout the country. These beacons en-
able the air to be navigated in safety at
night, and clever arrangements of under-
ground lights, covered with thick glass, tell
the airman exactly where to alight and the
direction of the ground wind.
The publication of the second series of
A. E. Sulman’s artistic photographs of Aus-
tralian Wild Flowers (Angus and Robertson,,
Sydney, 25.) is well timed for postage to
over-seas friends. There are 60 plates* un-
fortunately not in color, and these delight-
fully arranged nhotogranhs afford a striking
illustration of the wealth of our flora.


&rtj)omiocdtfasJlje
PRESENTS to SUIT EVERY PURSE at
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices
1 n
m
m
Finest English Out Crystal Bowl.
Height 6in., diameter Sin. On ornamental
Btand 3 o/«
3&
m
m
K
iffigl
SSSWwaam-awa \msKt&£&!»
Handsome Cut Crystal Rose Bowl,
Bin. high, Bin. diameter at top. Finely cut aild
polished diamond design, with untarnishable
wire holder inside *5O/*
Quite a feature of the many attractions in the Fine Art Gallery
is the wonderfully varied collection of English Cut and Polished
Crystal Glass. It embraces many pieces of exceptional merit, and
presents examples of crystal of the highest quality, irreproachable
style and exceptional beauty.
wm
el
Ml
Graceful Flower
Vases, fine diamond
cutting, with cut star
foot.
Height 9in., 11/9 ea.
Height llfin., 16/9
each.
' ' I
MBMgsa
* , “r-
Handsome Centre Piece, for fruit or
flowers. Richly cut bowl, stem, and foot.
Height 12in., diameter of top dish, 84in. ..59/6
mm
m
ms
ms
m
Graceful Flower
Vases, with diamond
and festoon cutting
and cut star foot.
Height 9in., 11/9 ea.
Height 11 Jin., 15/9
each.
ill
7fS
Wi
m
mmmmm
Rose Bowl, effective design, deeply cut,
with best wire holder inside. Height 6iin.,
diameter at top 7sin 18/6
Handsome, deeply-cut Rose Bowl,
fitted with double gilt wire, and standing
on gilt ormolu mount. The deep cutting
wonderfully enhances the brilliance of the
glass. Height 9in„ diameter 9iin. .. 47/6
Bags, Dressing Cases and Travelling Requisites
No. F3s. —These Half Gladstone Suit Bags have
rounded corners. The smaller sizes are excellent for carry-
ing Dress Suits, and the larger for general purposes.
Sizes 20in. 22in. 24in. 26in.
Qualit}' AX. —All Cowhide, shal-
low make (No. F 35) .. 21/- 22/6 25/- 27/6
Quality BX.—-All cowhide, deeper
make 25/- 27/6 30/- 35/-
NTo. 1887BX.—Ladies’ Fitted Dressing Cases.
Solid Leather, Brushes with White Xylonite Backs
25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, to 80/- each
Patrons who cannot personally inspect the Wonderful
Variety of Presentation Bags and Dressing Cases shown at
the New Palace Emporium, should consult our Illustrated
Price List of Travelling Requisites—post free on request.
m
m
No. F 32. —Genuine Compressed Cane Suit Case, fitted
with special light tray, divided into convenient compartments.
Sizes: 20 x 14* xB* 28 x 35 x 8* 30 xlsx 8* in.
75/-
80/-
85/-
/
IpaEg®
Vo. F22.—The Week-end Strapped Cowhide Kit
Bag'S, with single handles, plain corners and side locks, straps
all round, turn-over clips—
Quality AX, as above —
No. F 29 (Quality DX). — Leather Suit Cases. — I[K,e
Suit Case, eight hide-capped corners, securely riveted, two.
nickel-plated locks, a very serviceable case. Size: 20in.,
40/-; 22in., 44/-; 24in., 48/-; to 26in., 52/6.
I -
WSI
No. 188 X Fitted Dressing Cases, Ebony-
backed Brushes, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/- to 60/-
each.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Bricß.field Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


u
Rifle And Pistol Cartridges
When you buy rifle and pistol cartridges you want
them to be (sure-fire and accurate, and to have the
proper speedy and penetration—qualities which are all
essential for/good shooting. , There is nothing in the
appearance 'of a cartridge that indicates whether
it does or does not possess these qualities, for the
elements that make them cannot be seen. Therefore
when buying you have to rely upon reputation.
Winchester Rifle and Pistol Cartridges enjoy the
highest reputation the world over for quality and
reliability. When you buy, if you will insist upon hav-
ing Winchester make you can feel confident of getting
cartridges which are sure to give the fullest measure of
shooting satisfaction. Look for the Won the box. It is
Tim MARK OF/ CARTRIDGES OF KNOWN
REPUTATION/AND PROVED QUALITY .
Getting Out of Bed
on the Wrong Side !
Did your husband get out from the wrong side
of the bed this morning ? Was he irritable,
inclined to grumble at everything and act like a
bear ? Don’t always blame his temper. More often
than not a man’s irritable disposition is due to
trouble with his liver or digestion and better
than all the soothing and coaxing, is just one or two
Cockle’s Pills
A REPUTATION OF OVER 100 YEARS.
Get him to take two Cockle’s Pills to-night and no matter
how depressed, irritable or out-of-sorts he felt this morning,
he will be as “ fit as a fiddle ” to-morrow. Cockle’s Pills are an
invaluable corrective for all disorders of the liver or digestion ;
they are made according to the
prescription of a famous doctor
and are taken by doctors them-
selves.
■
The “Rocket”
wai the first locomotive in the world to run for
public service. This was in the year 1830, ex-
actly 30 years after Dr. Cockle began prescribing
his valuable antibilious pill, which brought him
an enormous practice and world-wide fame.
COCKLE’S PILLS
Of Chemists throughout
the World. Prices in
England, i/iJ & 2/9 a box
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRADE MARK
SPLENDIL 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra long range.
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/6. D.8.8.L. GUN, fitted with
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified steel barrels,
walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN EXCELLENT
KILLER. Holiday Price, £3/10/- D.8.8.L. GUN, choke and modified steel
barrels. Government Tested. THE FARMER’S FRIEND. Special Price,
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 21 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice and
light. A very accurate little weapon. THE YOUTH’S FAVORITE. Holiday
Price, 14/6. CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent elector. Takes .22
long, .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best sellers. Holiday
Price, 18/6. Write for Our Catalogue.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Largest Importers of Arms and Ammunition in the Commonwealth
242-4 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF GENUINE
auk
FITTINGS
“THOROUGHLY
BRITISH.”
- V*
v
•' :x
Cf
im
ITS the accuracy of every part of
B.S.A. Fittings Bicycle that makes
the machine run so smoothly and
with so little effort, and more thari
that, the wear on the bearings is so
slight that a B.S.A. Bicycle will last a
lifetime. No matter what other machine
you get or what price you pay
YOU WILL NOT GET
BETTER VALUE THAN A B.S.A.
Beside, think of the time when you
will be Cycling with friends riding
B.S.A's —you wouldn’t like to be riding
a cheap “pattern” machine would you?
Certainly not! Then have a B.S.A.
B.S.A. Handbook Free.
D. Y. RENNIE, (Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
B. S. A . CHEAPEST IN THE END
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY NORPCRN <& SONS LTP.,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
The Youngsters
enjoy mowing with
DANKS
“SHEFFIELD” MOWER
Look here, this “Sheffield” is a splendid
Mower, costing only 24/-. Made of fine
material, superbly finished, and possessing
the advantages of dearer makes without the
price. We tell you, you needn’t pay more
to get mower satisfaction. Runs like a bike,
needs the least attention. A clean short
cutter.
Other Styles from
■ ® ? ■■
IHs
SfeJ
s m
The House
for Mowers
and
Windmills.
JOHN DANKS &SON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
Sydney and Melbourne.
324 Pitt
St., near
Liverpool
St., Sydney.
gd
HEAR
LATEST 8-TONE
Mears Ear-phone
The final triumph of the inventor of the first successful multi-tone
Ear-phone. IF YOU ARE DEAF, this perfected instrument will enable
you to heat DISTINCTLY, PERFECTLY.
Eight Tones 1 8 different adjustments to suit every condi-
tion of the ear. Instantly changed by a touch of the
finger. Just as easily and as satisfactorily regulated for
the hearing as field-glasses are for the sight. Thus ensur-
ing perfect hearing in all degrees of deafness.
The Mears Ear-phone is based on the microphonic sound-
reproducing principle. Highly sensitive and self-adjusting it intensifies the faintest sounds to just
that degree required in ordinary conversation, or in the Church or Lecture Hall. Comfortably carried
in the vest pocket or pinned to the blouse. Call and test it free, or write for full particulars.
Australasian
Representative—
A. E. SLADE,
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 George Street,
SYDNEY.
SYDNEY: A. E. Slade, Bernard’s Buildings, 387 George Street.
MELBOURNE: L. G. Callaway & Down, Tuckett Chambers, 361 Collins Street.
BRISBANE: Carl Zoeller Ltd., 246 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE: Chas. Balfour, Central Chambers, Charles Street.
HOBART: Chas. Davis Ltd., Elizabeth Street.
AUCKLAND: Clem Bartley, 8 Ponsonby Road.
Mears Ear-phone Co. Inc., 45 West 34th St., New York, U.S.A.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney


A Razor Saver
For Every Shaver!
The edge of a razor consists
of minute saw-like teeth.
Rust eats away these teeth,
making the razor “drag.”
A keen-cutting and perfect
edge is maintained if you put
a few drops of
3 IN ONE
IN ONE
OIL
on the strop; and a few on the
blade, before and after shaving.
It prevents corrosion, makes
the razor glide over the face,
ensures a shave of infinite joy.
Golf Clubs
Are kppt in ideal condi-
tion with “Three-in-One” Oil.
Roller Skates
Run with delightful
smoothness when cleaned and
lubricated with “ Three-in-
One”
On sale everywhere.
Write for Free Sample Bottle !
REID & REID,
Australasian Agents,
82 S, Harris Street, Wellington, N.Z.
16
PREPAID TO VOUR PORT.
gd
Ten Days’ Trial allowed. Direct from
Factory. Highest-grade British MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears, Flyef
or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
LATEST
MODELS
£3.tO to £9
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
at once, using sufficient postage,
for Free Art Catalogue and Special
Offer on sample machine. Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY.
Dept A 282 LIVERPOOL.
WAR
Prompt Shipment 8 Safe Delivery
Guaranteed. No Advance in Prices
AGENT for MEAD CYCLES-
VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND. ALL MODELS.
LETTERS COPIED WHILE WRITING
(in ink) by using- your own Letter-paper
with this Book. Vou slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing- you
secure a perfect letter' and a
perfect copy. There is no
sign of copying. 400 octavo Bin. x sin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/200 Book, size 10f x
B§, post free 4/6 ; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Bin. x sin., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zane.tic Ink Paper which
produces this result, free if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Kane tie,--Leicester, England.
Zanetic goods obtainable from Sands & McDougall,
Ltd., Collins Street West, Melbourne, and Branches
at Adelaide and Perth.
w
“ON THE HOP.” —A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
ELEY
CARTRIDGE CASES
were used by the winner of the
CLAY-BIRD
CHAMPIONSHIP
at the Clay-Bird Shooting Asso-
ciation Championship Meeting
held at Hendon, June 24-27, 1914
No matter what powder is selected,
ELEY Cartridge Cases give the
best results. For instance :
PRIX DU CINQUANTENAIRE,
MONTE CARLO (Dec. 9. 1913)
—won with ELEY Cartridge
Cases loaded with Ballistite.
GRAND PRIX DU CASINO
MONTE CARLO (Feb. 12,1914)
—First & second Prizes won
with ELEY Cartridge Cases
loaded with Rottweiler and
Smokeless <t> Diamond
respectively.
CLAY-BIRD CHAMPIONSHIP
HENDON (June 27, 1914)
winner used ELEY Cartridge
Cases loaded with Mullerite
& Clermonite (right and
left barrels).
WHOLESALE ONLY:
ELEY BROS., LTD.
LONDON.
Agent: ALBERT ADAMS.
420, George St., Sydney, N S W.
i
Vs-vi.-w-v
sommim
CA fzv*c,e&t-.
f
It is a good policy to keep in the home
a Cough Remedy of Proven Merit. She is
a wise mother who insists upon getting a
Skilfully Prepared Medicine.
m
m
m
7
has stood the Test of Fifty Years. Those
who use it are amazed at its Wonderful
Curative Properties.
g
fgd
'S'
m
Can be Developed to Normal.
It matters not if you have been thin and seraggly for years, even if you
never were properly developed your measurements can be increased to normal
and your figure nicely rounded out to pleasing, plump proportions. It is
done every day for others —why not you ?
Manager. Falliere Co. Hekeia, N.Z.
Dear Sir.—l am well pleased with the results from using Flesh-
Food and the general improvement in m.y condition, for which
I thank you very much indeed, for my husband and I are both
well pleased.
From the very beginning I improved wonderfully—the giddiness that had bothered
me for years disappeared, as did the rheumatism from my legs. Both of these
troubles had caused me much severe suffering.
My limbs were thinnest, and they began to noticeably increase first of all, ending
in a nine-inch increase in my hij> measurement. A general development now became
noticeable, and my chest and bust filled out.
I had now gained all I needed—a full stone In weight. As I have lost neither
weight nor measurements since stopping the treatment, I consider the results per-
manent. Yours very truly, MKS. H. HODGES.
Flesh-Food is totally harmless in every respect. Its efficacy is beyond question, and its
use is no demand upon the subject’s time. Many cases have gained up to six pounds a week,
and an increase in bust measurement up to eight and ten inches is possible. Flesh-Food offers
relief and development to the thousands of chronically thin women who have despaired of ever
possessing a presentable figure. It is a nerve and tissue food treatment that adds weight and
permanent development to attenuated women. Guarantee given in every case accepted.
Lotus send
you a Free
Sample.
TRIAL SAMPLE FREE,
We publish an interesting book on the
subject of attenuation and development
and will send same and a Free Sample Treatment to you
upon receipt of a 2d. stamp to pay part postage. All
treated as strictly confidential.
FREE OF CHARGE
communications are
(1823)
FAIXIERE FEESH-FOOD CO., 1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
Nothing can surpass
HORROCKSES’
SHEETINGS for
durability
When Buying see HORROCKSES’ name on Face-plait,
and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS. 2
Exclusive Agent
Wanted
m
to sell our portrait
enlargements, picture
frames and novelties
in art goods. Excellent
opportunity for any
Merchant or Agent
The sale of this
line of goods is very re-
numerative. You may
charge good prices for our
portrait novelties. No ex-
perience required. We will send free of charge, our!
book of instructions and general catalog. We furnish
bank references. 20 successful years la the export
business is our best reference.
Consolidated Portrait & Frame Co.
1029--D-10 W. Adams St„ Chicago. 111.. U. S. A.
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Gan Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “I was a heavy smoker for 65 years,
but alter taking your treatment for H days 1
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 29 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
[2.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE. Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all
cases of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold bv ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
Price, 3/- per box, or a course of S
Boxes for £l. Post free under
plain cover.
On Sale at all Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Hava you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is. in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and' chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?-
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women <fc children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Life’s Crown.
The garden blows with palm and rose
With petal and with leaf:
\\ hile joyous jonquils nod their heads,
And poppies burn with radiant reds —
Why waste the hours in grief, dear friend,
\\ hy waste the hours in grief?
Let yesterday be years away,
And woe an old-time tale
Told long ago, and told no more;
The past is past. Then shut the door
On grief without avail, dear friend,
On grief without avail.
Love, like the flower, a splendid hour
Made all your being glow—
If—like the flower, and leaf by leaf
It perished—wherefore keep thy grief—
Was it not ordered so, dear friend,
Was it not ordered so?
To me it seems that she who dreams,
And ever dreams in vain,
Whose life is but an emptiness,
Who knew not love, nor love’s caress,
Hath juster cause for pain, dear friend,
Hath juster cause for pain.
This tree behold, whose rose of gold
In golden splendor blows ;
Though its queen-flower may perished be,
Is it less blessed than yonder tree
That never knew a rose, dear friend,
That never knew a rose.
Know this and raise a prayer of praise—
That, if love gives you grief,
It gave you also worlds of bliss
To miss which were indeed to miss
The flower and leaf of life, dear friend,
The crowning flower and leaf.
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
My Epitaph.
Oh, praise me now if you would please
My soul with soothing flatteries.
Praise with my living clay agrees.
’Tis sweet, I vow.
Give me kind words while I can feel
The modest blushes gently steal,
What time my virtues you reveal.
Oh, praise me now!
For, when the vital spark has fled,
No matter what kind words are said,
I’ll simply go on being dead
And take no heed.
Or if, perchance, beneath the clay,
I hear some kindly critic say,
“He was a boshter in his day!”
’Twere hard indeed.
’Twere bitter hard to be confined,
Gagged by grim Death, while fellows kind
Call my good qualities to mind,
And softly sigh.
I vow I’d writhe within my bier,
And strive to croak at least, “Hear, hear!”
For I have ever prized that dear
Right to reply.
And, when at last I meet my doom
And moulder in the chilly tomb,
Gaunt Death might play within the gloom—•
Who knows what pranks.
My very skeleton would squirm
To hear, on my behalf, some worm
Or some unlettered grave-yard germ
Returning thanks.
Then, if you’re keen on praising me,
I’d rather be alive to see
And hear and feel the flattery,
And know ’tis true.
And when I rise to make reply
I fain would droop a modest eye
And by my halting speech imply
It is my due.
I do not want a monument.
Why should good money so be spent?
Nay, put it out at ten per cent.,
And when you save
Enough to purchase goodly fare,
Then spread me out a banquet rare.
No gift’s appreciated there,
Within the grave.
Oh, praise me now while I am here;
In my attentive living ear
Pour adulation; never fear
I mind the row.
I love to hear you harp upon
Those dulcet strings. Play on, play on!
Do not delay until I’m gone.
But praise me now!
Victoria.
DEN.
Ballade of a Dead Marine.
Life, as most of us glumly know,
Seems to be set to a minor key;
Work is decorous, dull and slow,
And none the end of their work may see—
The gods have ruled that this thing shall
be—
Where we have planted others shall glean.
What is the height of our earthly glee?
The funeral march of a Dead Marine!
Bands may glitter, and blare, and go,
Waking the echoes by land and sea;
Violins throb, poignant and low,
Setting the soul for a moment free.
Organs may moan to the Heavenly Three;
Harps reshape us what might have been:
What is the music that makes Care flee?
The funeral march of a Dead Marine!
Upright he stands in the ordered row.
Filled with red blood, or the barley bree.
Knock off his head with a friendly blow!
Butchered to make us a joyous snree —
Lower him down by gentle degree—
Down till his corse reposes serene.
Glorious ending for such as he,
The funeral march of a Dead Marine!
Envoy.
Prince, or peasant, you must agree
That in his death there is nothing mean,
And no such music for you and me
As the funeral march of a Dead Marine!
n.s.w.
O. C. CABOT.


“Lister-Briis ton**
Automatic
Elediric Lighting
Plant
For Lighting HOTELS,
SHOPS and HALLS.
J' HIS plant (as illustrated complete) generates electri-
J. city automatically. The Engine and Dynamo start
themselves as soon as the lights are, switched on.
The Lamps are lit direct from the Dynamo, obviating a
large and costly storage battery. Current is available for
lighting at any time.
The Plant is self-contained, not fixed to the floor, and
thus as a tenant’s fixture may be moved from place to
place. It is delivered practically ready for connecting
up with wiring.
r
AGENTS : N.S.W.— W. G. Watson & Co., Ltd., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney
VlC.—Sutherland & Ashman, Flinders Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND—Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd., Creek Street, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALlA—Clutterbuck Bros., Adelaide.
HERE'S A NEW YEAR GIFT THAT WILL CUT
OUT 1915's IRONING DRUDGERY.
Buy vour wife or your friend one of these “Hotpoint” 61b.
Household Irons. It is beautifully nickel-plated—-fitted
with ebonised handle, and has patented stand attached.
* ,RON
carries a 10 Years' Guarantee.
Hotpoint Irons use current from any Lighting Point —you
can do your ironing out on the verandah in ' the cool
breeze, and a Hotpoint will keep “Red Hot” at a cost of
about an hour.
Seventeen styles of Hotpoint Irons —will you call or shall
we post a leaflet?
W. G. WATSON &L CO. LTD.,
Suppliers of Everything: Electrical,
279 CLARENCE STREET; 426-439 KENT STREET, SYDNEY
(Just round from the Town Hall).
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
since 1596
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GHEEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
insist on “ Singleton's’ —refuse all substitutes.
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES -
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you’ll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
till now. 1/6, posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist.
2] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
SUNSHINE ENGINES
iSsa*ai
OS
47
Made in Australia, with the finest machining plant procurable in the United
Kingdom. Sizes made: 3,5, 7 and 10 in Stationary and Portable Types.
Built for long years of service. Simple to manage. Magneto Ignition. _ Very
light in consumption of Petrol. Ask for Booklet giving actual users’ opinions.
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
SwJlitts! m
1
For IRRIGATION and other PUMPING JOBS.
Low in first cost. Cheap to install and run.
Write for “Sunshine Farm Implements,” 48 pages, illustrated. Sent post free
to any address, and worth having.
H.V. McKAY, Sunshine Harvester Works
Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
56 North Terrace, Adelaide.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
102 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
MORE
MILES
Increased
RIDING
COMFORTS
when touring on
PERDRIAU
Australian-Made
TYRES.
Send for Price List and full particulars.
Manufactured by
gd
RUBBER\
CO. LTD.
270 George St., Sydney.
105 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
67a Gawler Place, Adelaide.
307 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
cs:r-
J
w,
'tr-
im
m
\\ v
1
t
iw;
rTTm
-.ill
c7>
!Kii
Preserves the Linoleum
and retains the original pattern that s what
Shi-noleum does. It excels other polishes
in brightness of results, and is the most
satisfactory polish obtainable. Shi-noleum
is a solid paste, thus making for economical
usage and ease of application.
It resists smears and scratches splendidly,
and keeps the linoleum bright and fresh
adds to its life, too.
Your storekeeper has it. Firmly refuse
imitations.
Skiw^juwi
EASY TO USE.
v- U i l' : : 1
t :v, \ v..v- . '.:.
Why Not Use an Earth Scoop
for Making Your
Channels, Dams, Drains, etc.?
These Scoops remain unrivalled for excavating Irrigation Channels, Dams, etc.
Little or no labor required; just hitch a horse to the runners and guide the
handles.
The mouth of the Scoop being specially sharpened enables it to enter earth readily.
The body is pressed cold from a solid sheet of steel, without weld or rivet, which
ensures its durability.
Being the same width back and front, a uniform cut is made.
Fitted with Steel Runners and Detachable Handles.
Size. Capacity. Price.
3. 3 Cubic feet or earth 32/6
2. 5 Cubic feet of earth 35/-
1. 7 Cubic feet of earth 37/6
0. 10 Cubic feet of earth 80/-
Write for our 300-page Catalogue of Tools for the Farm, Home and Workshop.
AJCPliers o ns)
Proprietary Limited,
554-66 & 582=88 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.


The Bulletin
Ptegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 35.—N0. 1820.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 31, 1914.
PlilCß 6d.
A CHRISTMAS DINNER.
One man felt good at the holy season. King Peter of Servia, the mouse who is reduced to eating lions in his old age, recovered the ruins of his capital from
Austria just in time. Sitting amon the debris he ate the last chop which the treasury could provide.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published hy William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. ver Annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable. MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
xvithout stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction—i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
»Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg ; Dawson and Son,
I.Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Mil Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and, D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Rates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
lOoz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., Bioz. to 10oz., 2sd.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sd.; elsewhere, ioz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 31, 1914.
WHEN SCADDAN WENT TO HELL.
’The borrowing Premier —especially the bor-
irowing Labor Premier —who is a heavy father
to his country has a hard row to hoe in his
Hatter political days. At first he appears as
Moses leading Israel out of Egypt with
money raised from Cohen. Later, Jesh-
Urun (to contiuue the Scriptural parallel)
waxes fat and kicks —on borrowed funds.
Ultimately, Moses (this is more inverted
Scriptural parable) finds himself a sort of
capsized prophet or condemned Pharaoh,
and his followers sit in high places, and com-
mand him to go out into the fields and make
bricks without straw. These matters are
revealed in the case of Premier Scaddan, of
Westralia. No man ever tried, in his own
way, to be more of a parent to the com-
munity—especially the section which votes
for him —than Scaddan. He over-ran the
constable last financial year to the extent of
£135,000, which, for a community of 324,000,
is considerable. For the financial year which
closes on June 30, 1915, he expects to be
short to the extent of £440,000. The accumu-
lated deficit, which will be temporarily
covered with money borrowed from Private
Enterprise, will then be about £900,000.
Scaddan intimates that he floated
£3,728,000 worth of loans during the year—-
£3,000,000 in London and the balance in
Australia. The interest rate was very high
and more than £200.000 was lost in discounts
and expenses. In other words, Scaddan sup-
plied every man, woman, flapper and child in
Westralia with more than 4s. per week out
of borrowed money, or would have done so if
everybody had enjoyed an equal share. The
wage rate in Westralia is now higher than
in any, other State. And, on the other hand,
the debt of the community has risen to £94
per inhabitant.
* * * *
No one (as already indicated) can say that
Scaddan isn’t a man of good intentions.
But, unhappily, he has contrived, by hard
borrowing and lavish expenditure, to give his
supporters an impression that he is an inex-
haustible source of wealth —a Pactolus or El
Dorado or something of the sort; and that if
he doesn’t find work at high pay upon de-
mand, it is merely through sin and cussed-
ness. Hence arise items of this sort: —
Perth, Wednesday. — Respecting yesterday’s un-
employed demonstration at his office, the Premier
says (hat when he left for lunch he received a placard,
“To Hell with Jack Scaddan.” He found the outer
rooms splattered with ink and filthy with expectora-
tions. The Government had done what was possible for
-the unemployed. The 100 men put on regrading would
Lave been 200 if the men had not refused to work
reduced time. The unemployed had refused clearing
work at Yandanooka at 17s. 6d. an acre, a price at
which workers earned £27 in nine weeks, and after
paying all expenres drew a balance of from £l2 to
£l£. While the unemployed were demonstrating, the
Labor Bureau could not obtain two men for a sand-
wich-board job.
* * * *
This sort of thing isn’t pleasant for a well-
meaning man. Still it was bound to come.
A Premier who goes out of his way, through
misguided enthusiasm, to hand over the mil-
lennium at 4J per cent., fixed for 50 years,
with 7i per cent, discount, makes the people
ten times madder by his failure. No West-
ralian crowd ever insulted Premier Thros-
sell in this fashion. Throssell was old
and stodgy and Tory and deaf, but he didn’t
promise millenniums.
* * * *
Industry in Australia is divided into two
well-defined sections. One is dependent for
its wages on the value of what it produces.
If it doesn’t build more than 40s. worth of
boots per week, after all expenses are paid,
it must put up with 40s. per week, or it must
invent better machinery, or a better tariff,
or cheaper means of distribution, or some
other form of economy. The second branch
if industry—a larger one, in proportion to
population, than in any other country, on
earth —toils on public works and is paid out
of foreign loans, the liquidation of which is
left to the dim future. Its pay isn’t limited
by the profitable character of its work. It
doesn’t require to be especially industrious
or expert, for it is always possible to demon-
strate on paper that the work, whatever it is
and whatever it may cost, will pay 10 per
cent, per annum or more when it is finished.
The honorarium may be anything up to 40s.
per day provided the loans hold out. So the
pay of the man who is remunerated out of
foreign accommodation sets the pace for that
of the man who can only be paid according
to his output.
* * * *
In the end the most enthusiastically-
cursed politicians are the magnificent
borrowers of the type of Holman and
Scaddan. They promise Paradise, and,
when the boom fades they can’t deliver the
goods. New South Wales, where Paradise
has lately been raised on a large scale, is a
chaotic sort of place these days. Its
Cockatoo Dock, where the warships are
being built, was hung up in this time of
stress, by a demand that treble wages
should be paid for work done during the
Christmas holidays, though the industrial
award only provides for double wages. An
illegal coal strike or lock-out has been in
progress for many weeks, and the law hasn’t
been put in motion. To put it in motion
might cause a loss of votes. An illegal
strike in the iron trades is announced for
January. The Railway Workers and
General Laborers’ Association meets in
January, and its programme consists largely
of denunciations of the Labor people in
power. The N.S.W. State industries are
in such a bad way that the Premier
admits they can only keep afloat by
a 10 per cent, preference, or an even larger
preference, on all State contracts. The
new taxes have been put on the class which
is not described as “the workers.” The
farmers have been ordered to supply “the
workers” with wheat at less than the market
rate, to their own loss. Yet “the workers”
are not satisfied. They strike against their
friend Holman, just as they heave insult at
their friend Scaddan. Why should they
not strike and heave insult?
* * * *
There will be no definite improvement
until the loan curse leaves off. While a
large section of toilers can get almost any
wages for almost any kind of slop work
because the bill is handed down to the
unborn, there must needs be disaffection
among those who are only paid according to
their immediate value. The unemployed
learn the easy lesson of clamoring for a
share of the loans. The sloppiness of the
Government stroke which is paid for out of
foreign loans, chiefly as a means of acquir-
ing votes, spreads into other industries, and
the men in these industries have a right to
complain that they were demoralised on
purpose by a corrupt Ministry. If one man
leans up against Cohen two other men
naturally ask why they can’t also lean up
against Cohen. If a Scaddan or a
Holman says he can’t supply enough
.Cohen for everybody to lean against it is
reasonable to inquire why he supplies
Coiien to one and not to another. The
great loan-monger of Westralia only got
what was fairly coming to him when certain
one-time supporters threw ink about his
premises and told him to go to the place
which isn’t desirable.
THE ANNEXATION OF EGYPT.
Meyer Hartmann, the celebrated conjurer
of the ’6o’s, had a trick which was extremely
popular. When the curtain went up one
saw a draped form. It looked innocent
enough ; but every time you hit or pushed it,
it automatically turned into something new
and horrifying. In those days Hans used
to be very fond of toys. He had not yet
gone mad and taken to goose-stepping and
empire-building. Hartmann’s trick was
therefore very popular in Germany. Those
Deutschers who are old enough to remember
the show are now beginning to take note that
the British Empire has points of similarity
with Hartmann’s figure. Hans hasn’t got
very much cash these days, but with a fine
prodigality in respect of the little he has got,
he carefully prepares to put some perfectly
awful stroke across Britain. After ages
of devoted preparation Hans lets drive, and
instantly from out the void some entirely
unexpected circumstance lands him a clip
under the ear and lays him out. Illustra-
tions of the fact have been those sedulous
attempts to stir up the Asiatic races which
have brought the Gurkhas on his back, the
attempts to tamper with the loyal Afri-
kanders which have brought the armies of
the Union on his back, and at latest his
Ottoman excursion.
* * * *
Hans, bubbling over with his ever-present
confidence that all the world must be in love
with his particular way of looking at things,
concluded that the Islamic world was dying
to handle a gun for him. He therefore
decided to finance a Jehad, or Holy War.
Whilst he was walking about in an excited
condition, he was met by Enver Bey and
some other confidence men in the neighbor-
hood of Constantinople. Enver said that
for £10.000,000 he knew how to fix up things
with 250,000,000 Mahommedan subjects of
Great Britain. Hans said “Yes ! Yes!”
excitedly, and although he was a very poor
man, and had a lot of calls on his pocket, he
paid the money. He was delighted with
his bargain. He announced in his
Vossische Zeitung (lg/11/’l4) that
Britain would “immediately be driven out of
Egypt, that this would constitute one of the
greatest historical results of the struggle,”
and that Turkey would become “a revivified
Islam, a great and glorious Moslem Empire
in free and undisputed possession of Egypt
for all time, with Germany’s mailed fist as
ever-watchful guardian.”
The money which had been given to
Enver was at the rate of a decimal over
ninepence for each Islamite who was to
forswear his allegiance to George V. and
transfer it to William 11. Say nine and
fourpence a dozen. Under the unusual in-
spiration of a little ready money Enver
inadvertently passed some boastful remarks,
which were overheard by Great Britain,
and war was promptly declared on the
Ottoman Empire. Egypt at the moment
happened—just happened—to be in the
occupation of a serviceable army of
Australians, and it was immediately
annexed. A number of Hans’s refugee
merchantmen were lying with their steam-
pipes cut in the ports of the new protecto-
rate. Before the necessary repairs can be
effected and the ships fitted out for a
desperate bolt an Order in Council will
have removed all technical difficulties, and
the ships will have passed to Britain.
* * * *
As the net result, Hans counts one point
up for a fine piece of writing in the
Deutscher style in the Vossische Zeitung
and two points down for the £10,000,000
he passed to Enver and the fleet of
merchant ships he passed to Britain.
Unfortunately the cash won’t be much use
to Enver, as he won’t be allowed to spend
it in London, Paris or the south of France,
and the Bosphorus is a disgusting place for
a man of means and leisure. But the ships
will come in handy to Britain, as so many
vessels are now in use as transports that
the world’s merchandise is getting a bit
congested. And finally the Empire has been
given a reasonable excuse for acquiring a
new kingdom which it has wanted for a
long time and which will be a very useful
thing to own.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Pledged Kid—Once More.
Once a month a dull, unimaginative Cus-
toms Department publishes, without any
comment, the record of the one thing that
really matters in a financial sense—that is
to say, the export and import returns. These
show how far the country doesn’t face its
responsibilities; the amount of courage and
self-reliance it lacks; the quantity of work
it doesn’t do; the extent to which it pawns
posterity in order that it may enjoy short
hours and long wages, and wear imported
clothes, and eat imported tinned foods, and
look at imported picture shows, and save it-
self the trouble of becoming industrious and
efficient. Also they expound the factories
that it doesn’t possess ; the population that
it is short of; the arts that it knows nothing
about; the swelled head of the present and
the bankruptcy of the future. New South
Wales has a special interest in this matter
because it is the biggest borrower and the
biggest importer among the States. It is,
and has been for many years, the strongest
advocate of a low tariff and abundance of
foreign cheap-labor goods and foreign non-
union goods and foreign nigger goods, as
against local White Australian production.
New South Wales has more industrial
awards, and more breakages of them,
and more illegal strikes, and a bigger
deficit, and a madder proposition for
growing State wheat, and a wilder
idea of buying up all the grain in
the State and thus interfering with inter-
state commerce, and a more desperate in-
spiration in the way of dragging all the com-
merce of 300,000 square miles of country to
one port for the benefit of the Sydney land-
lord, and a larger incapacity to build a city
railroad, and a more abject subservience to
the bookmaker, and a more superb over-
draft than any other State. It has got a
feverish hustle on it. The fever is mostly
loan and the hustle mostly lOU. To come
down to plain figures, during the eleven
months of 1914 which ended on November 30,
the Ma State imported foreign goods and lux-
uries to the value of £29,335,763, and ex-
ported goods to pay for them to the value
of £25,821,253. Therefore it borrowed, and
put its children in pawn, to the extent of
£3,514,510 in eleven months for the use of
foreign products, and hypothecated the off-
spring for about twice that amount in the
way of unpaid interest on foreign liabilities.
All this happened so that the State might
not do £10.000,000 worth of plain, honest
job itself. In other words, it put the child
up the spout on an enormous scale so that
there might be so much less work, and less
population, and less expert knowledge, and
so many fewer defenders; and in order that
the discontented old man might shirk for a
while longer the problem of making his
industry pay its way. The country which
is loaded up with foreign debt must either
export enough to pay for its imports and
to cover its foreign interest bill, or else get
a stage nearer to the precipice. It is only
the country which has lent great sums
abroad which can afford to buy more than it
sells. Australia gets over the difficulty for
a time by much loose eloquence about its
“wonderful natural resources.” The pro-
genitor in pants, because he devotes more
time to politics and strikes than to per-
fecting the machinery with which he pro-
duces things, lives, in some cases, to the ex-
tent of as much as 10s. per week on the
loan money of foreign Private Enterprise.
The kid, not being old enough to understand,
doesn’t know that he is being mortgaged, in
some cases for as much as £26 a year, to
foreign Private Enterprise, in order that his
parent may avoid anxiety, and go to th§
football match, and eat Canadian canned
salmon. Freetraders regard this importing
business as wholly commendable, for they
judge a country’s prosperity by the amount
of work it gets some foreigner to do for it.
But it is a miserable arrangement for the
pledged kid.
The “Outsider” of Europe.
Fob years past civilised nations, seeking to
express their vague dislike of Prussians,
have said that they weren’t “gentlemen.”
A gentleman isn’t a gent.; but no one has
ever been able to say exactly what he is.
The fact that he is essentially the same,
whatever race he belongs to, suggests the
reason why he can best be expressed by
negatives. He may be ruthless; but he
doesn’t ill-use the weak and the helpless.
He may be immoral; but he doesn’t offen-
sively impose his point of view on the inno-
cent or the determinedly good. He may get.
drunk; bub, if he does, he does it, as the'
old phrase goes, “like a gentleman.” Above-
all, he does not brag. This is the first com-
mandment,, whether he be British or Aus-
trian, Indian or Chinese. To the typical!
British officer loud-voiced braggadocio
is as foreign as jemima boots. In a
regimental mess the man who talks about
himself and his qualities in other than a
deprecatory manner is doomed. In public
the officer who seeks by any means to draw
attention to the fact that he is a soldier, is
on the path which leads to Coventry. The
first gentleman that history mentions was
Confucius ; and it is odd to reflect that if
the Germans had followed him, instead of
Lutiier, they might be on a fair way
to winning the greatest war of all time.
For Confucianism is not so much a creed as
a code of manners. It deprecates the intro-
duction of noisy self-assertiveness into social
relations. It views with aloof disfavor the
howler, the bounder, the braggart and the
self-advertiser in all walks of life. Had
Confucius met a typical Prussian junker,,
the Teuton would have been useful to him;
as an example of all the qualities to be-
avoided. For about 40 years the Prussian,
officer has been deliberately schooled to out-
rage the feelings, primarily of all civilians,,
and incidentally of his men. He has;
been encouraged to swagger into public res-
taurants and theatres and insult the patrons,,
to shoulder citizens off their own side-walks,
and in general to make a blatant hog of
himself. Meanwhile his superiors have in-
dulged in an orgy of skite. They have told!
France what they meant to do to it on land,,
and Britain what their intentions were on
sea. They explained deafeningly, by means;
of diagrams and masses of figures, how
they proposed to enter and devastate France,,
and when; and they noisily proved where-
and by what means they would pass the-
British Empire its death-blow. Had they
possessed the elements of good manners, to*
The Unknown God.
[FOR BULLETIN.]
A riiantasy of Optimism.
The President to Kingdoms,
As in the Days of Old;
The King to the Republic,
As it had been foretold.
They could not read the spelling,
They would not hear the call;
They would not brook the telling
Of Writing on the Wall.
I buy my Peace with Slaughter,
With Peace I fashion War;
I drown the land with water,
With land I build the shore.
I walk with Son and Daughter
Where Ocean rolled before.
I build a town where sea was
A tower where tempests roar.
From bays in distant islands,
And rocks in lonely seas,
With unseen Death in silence
I smite mine enemies !
The great Cathedral crashes
Where once a city stood ;
I build again on ashes
And breed on clotted blood!
I link the ,geas together,
And at my sign and will
The train runs on the ocean bed,
The great ship climbs the hill!
For pastime I flood deserts
With water from the rill;
And in my tireless leisure hours
I empty lakes, and fill.
I plumb the seas beneath us
And fathom skies above,
Yet I make Peace for hatred
And I make War for love.
I race beneath the ranges
And sit where Mystery dwells —
Yet mankind sees no changes,
‘ They ask for “miracles /”
I own the world and span its
Lone lands from Pole to Pole;
I live in other planets,
Yet do not know my soul—
The soul that none may fathom,
Whose secrets none may tell,
The soul that none may humble,
The Soul Unconquerable!
I am the God of Ages !
I am the Unknown God!
My life is written pages
Wherever man hath trod.
From bounds of Polar regions,
To where the Desert reigns,
I’ve left my myriad legions
On countless vanished plains.
And I shall reign for ever
On earth while oceans roll,
In shape of man, or woman,
Through my immortal soul;
Yet I can love and suffer,
Be angry, or be mild,
And I can bow me down and' wcepr
Just like a mortal child.
I conquer Death and Living,
And Fiends in shape of men,
For I rejoice in giving
Not to receive again.
For I am Man!—and Mortal!
And Mammon’s Towers must fall,
Though Greed draws all his pencils through
The Writing on the Wall!
n.s.w.
HENBY LAWSON.


say nothing of horse-sense, they would have
kept silent about such things. The Kaiser
would have offered an Iron Cross to every
officer who could prove that he had neither
bragged, nor aimed a needless insult at any-
one for six months. Bernhardi and. the
rest of the prophets would have been either
hanged or gagged. Then The Day, when it
did arrive, would have struck the world as
a.horrible surprise. As things, are, France
and Russia have been bragged into building
mighty armies; and Britain has been skited
into maintaining an apparently unassailable
navy. Wherefore, when the German Empire
is smashed, and the pieces are swept up, and
the remains of the present struggle interred,
the inscription on the tombstone will be:
“Here lies the spirit of Prussia. It died
through not knowing how to be a Gentle-
man.”
♦
Chesterfieldian Charterers and a
Gentleman Named Storch.
In the case of the Zambesi, a British
steamer recently condemned in Sydney by
the Prize Court, glimpses were afforded of
the evasive, not to say furtive, nature of
the frail and beautiful spirit of patriotism
when it is trammelled by considerations of
commerce. The ship was owned by
Turner, Brigiitman and Co., a firm of
British subjects in London, was chartered
by the Pacific Phosphates Co., a Melbourne
co. working under German concession, and
the terms of the charter party provided for
certain voyages in the Pacific. On August
5 the Zambesi was unloading at Nauru,
which then belonged to Germany. On the
same date the German Government of
Nauru was informed of Britain’s declara-
tion of war. As the Chief Justice said, “it
became of urgent and vital importance to
the German Government of Nauru that
some means of communication should be
found with the Governor at Rabaul, es-
pecially as a large number of wireless mes-
sages in code were being received from
Berlin as well as from German possessions
in the Pacific.” In these circumstances the
Nauru officials asked the local representa-
tive of the Pacific Phosphates, the British
co. which., had chartered the Zambesi, for
the use of the vessel. With an old-world
courtesy characteristic of the race that had
produced a Chesterfield, but in direct con-
travention of the terms of the charter party,
consent was given. The name of the British
representative who gave it was Storch.
Further, with true British promptitude,
Mr. Storch put on board an agent
of the German Government, who was also a
wireless expert and the bearer of despatches
which were described by the Chief Justice
at the trial as “of the utmost importance.”
The Zambesi had not proceeded far at sea
when she was stopped by an Australian
cruiser. A certain amount of material was
rapidly heaved overboard; but the Austra-
lian commander reached the Zambesi’s decks
before the good work was quite completed.
A glance around, and a prize crew was
aboard, and the Zambesi was on her way as
a prisoner to Sydney. On the application
for the condemnation of the ship the defence
was put forward that on August 6, the date
of the Zambesi’s departure from Nauru, the
representative of the charterers was un-
aware that Britain had declared war on
Germany. It was admitted that this repre-
sentative had spent the whole of that day
in the company of the representatives of
•the German Government. His name, as
has already been said, was Storch. In
making the decree for condemnation as
asked, the Chief Justice refrained from
expressing an opinion upon the truth or
otherwise of this defence. He might indeed
have . pointed out, though he politely
refrained from doing so in consideration
of the feelings of the profession to which
he once belonged, that such a defence is
not a defence at all, but a mere waste of
the Court’s time. He observed That “even
though such persons as Storch, as well as
the owners or charterers, were free from
moral delinquency, the consequence of con-
demnation attached, and that if those placed
in charge of a ship allow themselves to be
intimidated or cajoled into rendering ser-
vices to the enemy, the only remedy, if
any, open to the owners or charterers is
against the persons who have led the agents
of one or other of them into so false a posi-
tion.” After that, the Pacific Phosphates
Co., and their friend Mr. Storch, the
typical Britisher of Nauru, will know how
to endorse their writs—if they feel like
issuing any. But turning from the purely
speculative aspects of the case it is of inter-
est inasmuch as it shows that Prize Law
is not only adequate to cope with the most
devious of devices, but that it can also on
occasion serve as a stimulus to patriotism.
For example, after the decision in the
Zambesi case., British owners and charterers
of British ships will be careful to give their
own country the benefit of any doubt they
may have.
—— +
The Rivers of Canberra.
One “Bimberi” gives the rivers of Canberra
such a mixed advertisement that his position
is hard to distinguish :
Re your latest item on Canberra’s water supply
(B. 10/12/’l4). The pollution of the Molonglo *and
Queanbeyan rivers does not occur in the upper
reaches of those streams. Above the township the
Queanbeyan supplies good drinking water, and is
not to be despised as a trout stream.
Queanbeyan depends upon the weather and the
pubs (mostly the pubs) for its drink supply, and
has no other use for the river than a burial-ground
for the midnight cat and a tip for the garbage tin.
The pollution of the Molonglo (there is only two
miles of the Queanbeyan in the Federal territory)
occurs inside the boundary-line. The drainage from
Acton and the Royal Military College is allowed to
run into the river, and the sewage depots of both
places are on the banks of the stream. During the
hot months the Molonglo, below Queanbeyan, is as
pure as the Yarra below Richmond, and gives off
an aroma not half so delicate as Footscray. For
the remaining months it is mostly mud.
Canberra depends upon the Cotter (not the
Molonglo) for its water supply.- The person who
says that the Cotter, at any time of the year, ceases
flowing is a liar, to say the least of him.
Writer knows every inch of the Cotter from its
junction with the ’Bidgee to its source, and opines
>that there are only two rivers in New South Wales
(i.e.., the Snowy and Goodradigbee) to beat it, and
that is saying a lot for the Cotter. No part of its
catchment area, which is snowbound for four months
of the year, is in N.S.W., so the river cannot be
polluted by the “State cow,” which is 100 per cent,
worse than the “Federal ass.”
Why not come and sarnple the Cotter? It mixes
well with whisky, provided there is enough whisky.
The Bulletin replies, more ill amazement
than in anger, that it has sampled the Cotter
and hopes to do so again. It has walked
across the Cotter dryshod. It has set up
its camera in the middle of the stream. And
it has read the report of the Sydney Tele-
graph’s fish expert to the effect that the
place had degenerated into “a chain of
waterholes.” As regards the statement that
no part of the Cotter’s catchment area is in
New South Wales, it doesn’t say much for
this great effort of Nature if it depends
entirely on what moisture it can raise in the
small Federal area. Perhaps the conse-
quent insignificance was the reason why, in
Ivnibbs’s list of “Approximate Lengths of
Principal Rivers of the Commonwealth”
(Official Year-Book of the Common-
wealth No. 2, pages 69 to 77), though 117
N.S.W. streams were mentioned, some of them
only 30 miles long, yet the Cotter didn’t get
a place. And in the list of Queensland streams
great outpourings ttvo miles long were men-
tioned —and yet, as already indicated, the
Cotter was simply one of those which “also
ran” —or also stopped running.
Easy Patriotism.
“Clerkling” makes a suggestion:—
A well-known Sydney solicitor wrote to the S. M.
Herald last week deploring tlie fact that more
young men weren’t volunteering for the front. Said
he: —■
I daily see many young men of my own sphere in
life, who are fully qualified to bear arms for their
Empire, going about without apparently a thought
beyond business or pleasure. ... Why do they not
offer to fight for their country Why do our
cricketers not come forward and offer their services
as their fellow-cricketers have done in England? I
am told that the members of the various trades-
unions, which claim to have as their members the
best among the working men of the country, have
made in proportion to their numbers a very inade-
quate response to the appeal for recruits.
This enthusiast is typical of thousands. He doesn’t,
so far as I know, intend to go to the war himself,
but he yearns to witness the departure of others.
And yet, like Colonel Onslow, who has also been
heaping scorn on the dilatory, he is just the sort of
man that is wanted at the front. He is in the
prime of early middle-age. He has no children,
and, if he had, his financial position is such that
he could leave them without anxiety. As a cricketer
he is equal to third-, if not second-grade form. He
is an athlete who has always kept himself in condi-
tion, and who, at something over 40, is fitter than
many 30-year-olds of my acquaintance.
You can mostly tell a man who would go to the
front if he decently could, by the fact that he makes
no remarks about the cowardice of others. Take
my case. To me active service would represent a
blessed holiday and a long-yearned-for change. But
I have a wife and two children, who have been used
to a moderate degree of comfort, and we haven’t a
farthing beyond what I earn. One of my cousins
decided to volunteer. His employers intimated that
they couldn’t keep his job open. Nevertheless he
put on his hat and left. Having means of his own he
was in a position to do so. Had I followed his
example I might have earned the academic approval
of stay-at-home solicitors and Colonel Onslow, but
my dependents would have been liable to starve.
Let me make a suggestion. If oiir rich young attor-
neys don’t feel disposed to follow the example of
their fellow-solicitor, Mr. William Cope —who, at
the age of 50, has offered himself for service, after
participating in both the Soudan and the Boer cam-
paigns—-and if our rich young squatter-legislators
don’t feel inclined to emulate Colonel Eyrie —who
left last week—they can help in another direction.
Let them step forward and intimate that if (say)
John Smith, 29, accountant, married, three chil-
dren, insurance premium £35 a year, volunteers for
the front, they will engage to keep his household flag
flying. Could our Smiths be sure that, in the event
of their departure, their families would be decently
supported, their insurance premiums met, the instal-
ments on their time-payment furniture and houses
paid, and so on, they would go to the war, flying? The
well-known solicitor above-indicated is in a position to
guarantee the financial security of at least 20 homes
of this sort. His co-complainant, Colonel Onslow,
the ground landlord of Elizabeth Bay, and one of the
richest men in the State, could account for 100
families and not know the difference. Their example
would act as an inspiration to other rich young
men, who, while unwilling to face the discomforts
and perils of active service, are naturally anxious to
secure the safety of their properties. As anti-
Socialists, this form of individualism should appeal
to them.
If all the well-to-do' Australians, who are urging
their poorer brethren to go away and fight the
Germans, could but bring themselves to make finan-
cial sacrifices in the Imperial cause, and not leave
the whole burden to Socialism, the recruiting busi-
ness would be wonderfully stimulated.
♦
A Dock, a Cruiser, and the Public
Interest.
This is the epistle of the Apostle “O. C.
Cabot” to those who borrow off the Hebrews :
Time is of more or less importance to most people,
but apparently not so to the gentlemen who are
building, erecting or constructing the second-class
protected cruiser Brisbane, at Cockatoo Dock, Sydney.
The story of this dock —also of this mystery ship
—is full of interest, chiefly interest at 4$ per cent.,
or thereabouts. First, as to the dock, which, like
most things in the Ma State, is in Sydney, or the
waters known as Sydney Harbor. . This place was
formerly a convict settlement, and while the con-
victs were camped there they made a great public
work which the Imperial Government handed over
to Ma when it set up that lone, lorn creature in
business for herself.
Ma’s Public Works Department was given charge
of the dock. The island on which the object stands,
or in which it is sunk, has an area of 30 acres or
so, a water-frontage of 6245 ft., and the reputation
of being a rather slow place for any kind of a
shipyard job. This reputation it has sustained. The
dock is capable of taking a vessel 600 ft. in length,
I think, of taking 6000 long years to
build-it.
Up to two years ago the mighty hustler before
Bull-Cohen, Arthur Griffith, was responsible for
Cockatoo, but by a. glorious bit of legerdemain, or
a coup-de-bank-book, Ma’s Minister for Public
Works, “disposed of” the permanent and reproduc-
tive asset to the Commonwealth.- It was a fine
stroke of business, as Ma received some £700,000 or
£BOO.OOO for its Cockatoo, and the Commonwealth
received a shock. The shock came when experts
reported the dock to be “absolutely unfitted” for war-
ship building-, and added that £500,000 would have
to be spent immediately on new plant, etc.!
To hark back: Arthur Griffith, amid applause,
announced, four years ago, that the State Govern-
ment of N.S.W. was going to build warships for
Australia at Cockatoo. Amid showers of roses, and
in the glare of a 750-h.p. limelighting plant,
Griffith told the world that “the Government
has made a contract with the Commonwealth for
For this sum we shall build the third
Australian cruiser (the Brisbane) and three more
destroyers like the Warrego.” ( Cataclysmal
applause .) “The ships will be ready for commission-
ing within 26 months!” (Welkin fractured badly.)
These encouraging remarks were made at the end
of 1910, and from certain evidence round us it now
begins to look like the end of 1914 — 48 months.
Where is the Brisbane ? Where are the “three more
destroyers like the Warrego?”
The three destroyers are still part of the Arthur-
ian legend. This, summarised, is what has happened
to the Brisbane:—-
(1) Designed 1909 —known officially as improved
“Town” class.
(2) Authorised under Commonwealth Act (1910).
(3) Contracted for by ' N.S.W. Government
(1910).
(4.) “Material assembled” at Cockatoo Dock
(1910-11).
(5) Formally commenced (March, 1911).
(6) First keel-pates laid (April, 1911).
(7) Something wrong (May-June-July, 1911).
(8) Second formal commencement (August, 1911).
(9) More “material assembled” (September-
December, 1911).
(10) Delays and disputes (1911-1912).
(11) Something dashed wrong (1912).
(12) More experts imported (1911-1912).
(13) Contract all to blazes. Griffith sells dock
(1912).
(14) Commonwealth assumes “control” of a fear-
fully-delayed job in a hopelessly out-of-date yard
(1913).
(15) Pearce, Minister for Defence, “drives first
rivet” ( third occasion!) (January, 1913).
(16) Strikes (1913-14).
(17) Millen, Minister for Defence (June, 1913),
probably “drives” second rivet! (no record).
(18) More “material assembled” (1914).
(19) Brisbane not yet “plated up”,.(1914).
(20) The War!!!! (August, 19i4).
(21) Great discovery made —impossible to launch
before August, 1915—three years from second com-
mencement !
If I were a liar or gifted with imagination I
might pursue the subject further and launch into
prophecy. But I prefer to nail myself down to solid
fact.
A plaint has been made in the Senate that
Chinamen are exchanging Australian notes
for gold and shipping the gold to the Chinkie
Land. Wild remarks have been made about
the power of the Government to prohibit the
export of gold. Of course Australia can
prohibit the export of gold—supposing it is
prepared to -go broke. If it refuses to let
gold go out to pay interest on its foreign
debts it may do so. And if it persistently
believes in paying twice the foreign rate of
wages, and in levying no sufficient tariff to
counterbalance the discrepancy, and in
unlimited imports, and limited exports, and
plenty of foreign industry, and no local
industry worth mentioning—well, it can
still prohibit the export of gold to balance
the trade account. But if it does so Aus-
tralia will owe for its pants, and repudiate
the bill for its shirt, and by reason of the
unpaid account for its socks its name will
stink in the eye of Heaven. Assuming that
a Chinaman owns the liability which this
country owes to somebody by reason of its
foreign-borrowing, and its high-wage and
low-tariff and huge importing policy, he
has as much right to take away gold as
anybody else. It is his own gold—the money
to which he is entitled. China isn’t at war
with us, and isn’t levying contributions on
the country, so the heathen can’t take away
sovereigns except in payment of our just
debts- —the debts that are incurred through
our own casualness and our own Freetrade
notions. To complain of him removing the
substance which belongs to him suggests
repudiation.
♦
The chairman of Maoriland’s big bank is
the only Australasian financial potentate
who follows the old practice of making a
long address to his shareholders, reviewing
not only his own bank’s progress but the
course of finance generally. Of course Mr.
Beauchamp doesn’t positively know> any
pore. than anybody else, how long the war
is going to last; but he has marshalled a set
of facts on which he has formed a very de-
finite conclusion. For example :
(1) According to the German Year Book for
1913 the imports into Germany in 1912 totalled
£634,570,000. These came principally from the
United States, Russia, Great Britain, Prance and
India, and were represented in great part by food-
stuffs. These sources of supply are now cut off.
(2) The German export trade, which in 1912
amounted to £447,800,000,- is completely paralysed.
(3) It was announced a few weeks ago that the
bankruptcies in Hamburg alone since the obening of
the war showed deficiencies aggregating £25,000,000.
(4) Gold payments have ceased throughout the
country; an inconvertible paper currency is the
legal tender medium, and is rapidly depreciating.
A couple of months ago these notes were at a dis-
count of 35 per cent.
The Bulletin itself has no information on
the subject of the note depreciation, and,
without evidence to the contrary, should
regard a 35 per cent, depreciation two
months ago as doubtful. But the other
allegations are admitted facts; and on these
and many more like them, Mr. Beauchamp
(who, by the way, represents the Govern-
ment on the Board) hazards the opinion that
“the end will come sooner than has been
expected, and possibly with a dramatic sud-
denness that will surprise us.” The com-
forting verdict is all the more welcome
because the expert who offers it has a record
for farsightedness in his own region of
finance.
Thebe is an eager movement afoot to “cap-
ture Germany’s trade.” Everybody is help-
ing. The Universities have offered to aid
the manufacturers, recognising that “Ger-
many owes much of her success in recent
years to the acquired skill of her artisans
and of her leaders of industry.” Our Judges
instruct us to keep the fires of racial hatred
burning, in order to down the enemy indus-
trially and commercially. Our politicians
borrow harder than ever, with the same
object. The calamity is that few people
are troubling to acquire new outlooks. If
German trade is to be captured and held, an
army of efficients, not only mental but phy-
sical, must be created. It is as easy for
Judges to tell us to hate an enemy which
is acting in a particularly detestable man-
ner as it is for politicians to borrow money
and spend it in buying political support. It
would be more useful, though it would not
go down so well with the crowd, if they all
told the people some of the things which
they are not anxious to hear. For example,,
that you cannot save by education alone
and that about half our mental inefficients,.
gaol-birds and recipients of State charity
are the victims of preventible disease. If
leaders of thought placed the Empire’s com-
mercial welfare as high as they do that,
variety of false modesty which is character-
istic of certain Britishers, they would pro-
claim that, to be efficient, a nation must be
healthy, and that a condition precedent to>
national health is the control, if not the
eradication, of, amongst other things, ven-
ereal disease.
From “The Old Soldier”:—
The more one studies the matter the more one
can’t make out what the German Emperor meant
to achieve by talcing Calais. True, it is the
shortest of the cross-Channel ferries; but, as a har-
bor, except for fishing boats, it is, like the rest of the
French Channel ports, useless. Napoleon appreci-
ated this when he fixed the headquarters of “the
Army of England” on the beach at Boulogne. His
desperate aim was to push off in flat-bottomed boats,
and reach England that way. The fact that he never
adventured the scheme is the best indication that it
was a rotten one, and the Kaiser’s is certainly no
better.
It is to be hoped that persons who declare
that we are “too soft with our Germans” are
not themselves too soft with another and
more unmistakable class of traitor. A
while back an Australian correspondent of
the London Grocer wrote to that journal
telling of the alleged dreadful condition of
immigrants to the
dering the streets and the country in the
last stages of degradation and starvation,
while the more fortunate rush to crowd on
board every outgoing steamer to get away
from the ‘living Hell of Australia.’ ” Of
course Australians know these statements
to be lies, but the Britisher doesn’t; hence
Andrew Fisher might some day find time to
follow Canada’s lead and provide something
with boiling oil in it for the individual who
slanders his country.
A remarkable exhibition of energy was.
given during the Maoriland election cam-
paign by A. A. Paape, who contested the-
Westland seat as a Massey nominee. A.
son of “Dick” Seddon holds this seat, which;
is looked upon as family property, and;
Massey couldn’t dig up a man to stand';
against him. At the last moment, young;
Paape, organiser for the Tory party, wired!
from Auckland that he would stand rather
than see a walk-over. Nine days before
polling day he rushed into the big Southern
electorate, a perfect stranger, and became
busy—travelled 1164 miles and addressed 26
meetings. He finished in such style that
young Seddon was within 700 votes of
oblivion.
Some day, when means are found to make
two blades of grass grow where none grows
now, S. Australia will have quite a lot of
valuable space to offer settlers. Of its
243,244,800 acres 113,282,556 acres (includ-
ing a certain area of lakes) are entirely open
and unoccupied, and there are 99,000,000
other acres merely held till some better class
of tenant comes along. Certainly what is
now reckoned the best has gonj, more or
less absolutely, but this land which has been
sold, or has been let with right of purchase,
runs to less than 15,500,000 acres. That
means only 64 acres or so out of every 1000.
And the time will probably come when, the
world having learned a few more things, the
bulk of the unsold 936 acres will be put into
the same class as the average of the 64.
“Iniquity” is one of the most misused words
in political language. The Fatman alarmist
is particularly hard on it. Melbourne Argus
speaks of “the iniquity of the taxes by which
Labor is seeking to raise the Federal revenue
up to the requirements of the present period',
of stress” ; yet the same Argus would find 1
even more iniquity in higher Protective duties
which didn’t raise the Federal revenue to
present requirements.
The Argus proposition that Ministers and'
members should stump the country to.
“awaken the latent patriotism” of Australia,
as Ministers and members are doing in Eng-
land, is beautifully characteristic. If the-
British Government would call the British
Parliament together and make compulsory
service the law within 24 hours (and there
would be no need to impose a special land
tax to pay for it, seeing that every man-
except an ass knows it to be cheaper than
the voluntary business) the blessings of
such actions would not end with the dose o£"
the war.
The Present State of Maoriland.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Government and the Opposition will be of
equal strength.— Cable.
With equal hosts red from the furious polls
The war in Maoriland goes bravely on,
Earnest as croquet, strenuous as bowls.
They play till reason reels and hope is
gone,
And all the while the weary public rolls
Its debt uphill to ’scape perdition’s coals.
The ins and outs are very much the same
In all they purpose and aspire to do.
Each has a policy, mild, sleek and tame,
That wears a collar branded “IOU.”
And each, with Cohen’s help will play the
game,
With minor variations on the name.
The public sweats and stands it all the while,
Failing to see the murky wood for trees.
The young, sweet mutton ripens in good style
And frisks away as interest overseas.
The kind earth shakes, the flax bush still can
smile,
And he who chews things over bites a file.
N.S/VV.
PAT O'MAORI.


Hotel Steyne,
Manly Beach, N.S.W.
Facing the Pacific Ocean.
THE BRIGHTON OF AUSTRALIA*
SURF-BATHING RIGHT IN
FRONT OF THE HOTEL.
Excellent Golf Links in Close Proximity.
Hot Salt Water Baths Adjacent.
TERMS —From 11/6 Day;
£3 10s, Week.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Girl on the Film”
Criterion “Broadway Jones”
Adelphi “The Babes in the Wood”
Palace / (Afternoon) “Seven Little Australians”
\ (Evening) “Who’s the Lady”
.Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
White City Various Shows
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Cinderella”
Royal “Bought and Paid For”
King’s “Sinbad the Sailor”
Princess’s “The Woman Pays”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Bijou Fuller-Brcnnan Vaudeville
Olympia & National Hoyt's Pictures
Esplanade The Green Dandies
—: ♦
There is nothing new to report from Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, except that Miss Dorothy
Brunton, who is “The Girl on the Film,”’
has started the Recruiting Song. The Re-
cruiting Song implores young men to volun-
teer for the front, and gives them an
assurance that, if they do, the girls will kiss
them on their return. It doesn’t mention
whom the girls propose to kiss during the
volunteers’ absence, and this reticence is a
weak point in the argument. The song,
which is almost as well known in Britain as
“Tipperary,” was written by Paul Rubens,
an intensely-patriotic young Hebrew who,
when the last London tiles left, had shown an
ascetic scorn of osculation by neglecting to
proceed to Flanders himself. However, it is
a good song, and, as rendered by Dorothy
Brunton and about three dozen young and
charming girls, it should do something to
stave off universal service for a while
longer.
* * * *
“Dorothy o’ the Hall,” the old English
drama presented by the Nellie Stewart Co.
at Sydney Royal, contains all the things
that stun a modern audience and carry it
away from the trousered world of reality.
Take a look at the list (arranged alpha-
betically for reference) :
A—Agitating Circumstances.
B—Beauty; Block (Shadow of the)
C—Curls ; Conspiracies.
D—-Damnable Treachery ; Dorothy Vernon.
E —Ecstasy.
F—Faithful Friendship.
G —Greatness, Gibberish.
H—Horror.
I—lndiscretion (Youthful).
J —Jewels.
K- —Kisses ; Knee-breeches.
L—-Love.
M—Marriage.
N —Nellie.
O—Old Man (Furious).
P—Papers (The) ; Persiflage (Airy) ; Piffle
(Plain).
Q —Queer Doings; Quarrels and Qualms (of Con-
science).
R —Rotten Luck ; Reunions ; Revels.
S —Sweetness ; Stratagems.
T —Tremors; Testiness.
U —Usual Gags (All the).
V—Villains.
W—W aggishness.
X —X. (The mark where the villain’s reputation
was found out).
Y—Ypres (Means of Forgetting).
Z—Zest (For Life).
The name-part doesn’t give Miss Stewart as
big a chance as she gets when she is Nell
Gwynne in a better-constructed and
better-written play. But there are all
the ingredients of the cut-and-thrust drama,
and the borrowed Petruchio trick of
throwing good victuals out of window
is a great help. Nellie (who seems to annu-
ally renew her treaty with Time) conveys
the requisite impression of unconquerable
youth, and looks a credible junior when she
abases herself before daughter Nancy, who
strolls into the plot in Act IV. as 'a very
robust Mary, Queen of Scots. Guy Has-
tings plays the curly lover with all the
modern short-haired man’s reserve, and
naturally does not appear to deserve his
antique, food-dashing mistress. Clarence
Blakiston fairly earns his applause as Perkin,
the faithful comic supplement of a noble
household, while Beatrice Esmond is properly
imperious as the ginger-haired Elizabeth.
There must have been moments when Eliza-
beth wasn’t imperious and Napoleon wasn’t
acting the conqueror, with one hand on his
chest. People can’t look imperious or con-
quering when they’re getting their hair cut,
or cleaning their teeth ; but stageland takes;
no ’count of these and other necessary inter-;!
ludes. Leslie Woods roars more or less
naturally as the old English father, and the.
rest of the co. seem to be unanimous in leav-
ing the heat and burthen of the show to
Nellie. The play, which is well enough!
staged, should do well in these days when the
clash of steel and the reek of explosives are
reviving the world’s interest in melodrama:.
Every night at Sydney Criterion, to the
applause of holiday audiences, Mr. Niblo
Jones, of the Broadway that leadeth to
destruction, rescues the threatened chewing-
gum industry of Unready Sam’s country
from the clutches of the C.G. Combine. It
is rumored that chewing-gum will soon be
declared a Necessai-' 7 Commodity.
* *
By the grace and enterprise of Australian
manager Beaumont Smith, who deserves
well of all Australians. Ethel Turner’s
“Seven Little Australians” —or rather a
dramatic medley from her books under that
appealing title—started a matinee career
at Sydney Palace last Saturday. If the
experiment is a financial success (it is
already an artistic one), Beaumont Smith
will think harder over his idea of starting a
children’s theatre —which is no more than
a fair thing, seeing that the annual panto,
has thrown the youngsters over and
developed into a leg-and-ragtime show for
the mentally bald-headed.
The self-possession of the Australian
youngsters who man the Palace footlights
and swagger in front of the few grown-up
characters that couldn’t be kept out of the
story leaves the onlooker wondering just
how much juvenile talent Australia con-
tains. The shrill young voices have to be
forced a little to fill the theatre, and the
first sensation is one of annoyance; then
one realises that playing children shout just
like that in real life, the only difference
being, that on the stage there is no one with
sufficient authority to silence them for a
moment or two with “Not so much noise
there !” Certainly the adult members of the
cast don’t earn the right to order them to
be quiet. Vera Spaull, as the red-haired
Bobbie, is a dainty and charming litlle
heroine whose work is so finished that she
doesn’t need any special consideration on
account of her youth. Cecile Haines, a
diminutive Maorilander, swaggers splendidly
as Suds. Jack Radford and Fred Carlton
(Bunty and Dumps) get as close to Nature
as two small boys can do on the stage. Olga
Agnew and Esma Cannon rush -pink-legged
through the parts of Nell and Baby. Lily
Molloy (Pip) does her best to appear a
studious-looking boy; but her soft girl’s
voice and her Eton suit aren’t convincing
when she has two real boys with robust
vpices yelling and rushing around her. The
grown-ups of the play just about get
through. Edward Landor, as Dr. Wallace,
the kindly old clergyman-dad, acts with
sincerity; but he makes up as a snowy-
haired. old dodderer, whereas Captain Lennox,
the friend of his college days (played by
Harry Sweeney), is a raven-haired young
man of under 40. They should split the
difference.
** * *
“The Babes in the Wood,” with the elec-
tric Daisy Jerome doing her best to keep
amongst the legendary tall timber as Maid
Marion, started with a bang and a crash at
Sydney Adelphi last week. As usual, the
good old nursery rhyme is soon lost amongst
a forest of legs and speciality turns ; but the
people who take their wide-eyed youngsters
once, and subsequently make 19 trips strictly
on their own, would be very indignant if a
simple-hearted management arranged it
otherwise. The deficiencies of the book
(the book is mostly deficiencies) are heavily
patched with ragtime melodies, most of
which are new. But ragtime tunes bear
such a strong family resemblance that
those of yesterday are almost as good as the
others of next week. The audience takes
very kindly to the musical hiccups that are
not exactly new. and listens with placid
contentment to the happy drivel that goes
with them.
“THE BABES IN THE WOOD,” AT
THE A DELPHI, SYDNEY.
The new-style panto, demon, “The Kaiser,"
thwarted by the Fairy Queen’s British
"Tommies."
When she ceases to be a fitful and uncon-
vincing Maid Marionette, Daisy Jerome sup-
plies a gorgeously-costumed speciality turn,
during which she uses one or two of the
well-known melodies that helped a bygone
revue. As usual, she does appalling things
with her voice, and works up with tigerish
ferocity to the triumphant moment when,
tired out, she shakes her red curls at a
house vociferously demanding more. Dan
Taylor makes an agile Dame; but he has
no reserve of humor and the book doesn’t
help him. A praiseworthy attempt to
introduce the German as chief demon would
be more successful if the four cloaked and
helmeted gentlemen singers could make
themselves heard beyond the orchestra.
Though their involved musical dialogue can-
not be deciphered, their evil intentions are
as obvious as the lurid Rheims Cathedral
cloak worn by one of the band. That
cloak must have been an inspiration of
dress-designer D. H. Souter. The young and
joyous ballets are bright features of a show
which stretches like a golden rocket-trail
across the night, and is still soaring when
the outer-suburbanites are walking out
backwards on other people’s corns. Their
chief anxiety is to know how the gravely-
absurd Bert La Blanc became The Hebrew of
Sherwood Forest. Presumably, Robin Hood
had to be financed, like all the cheerful free-
booters who have looted and burnt since his
day.
As The Bulletin said in its original
notice of “Who’s the Lady?” “the spirit of
naughtiness hovers about the narrative with
outstretched wings.” But it is an inoffensive
bird, which never swoops down far enough
to get its claws tangled in the proceedings.
As presented at the Palace (Sydney) on
Saturday night by Beaumont Smith the
show merited every bright laugh and glad
hand it received. To an extent, the. Palace
has been in later years Cinderella amongst
Sydney theatres, and the transformation of
atmosphere which this snippy French farce-
comedy gives it for a brief season is a fair
thing/ Ethel Dane, as the chic actress
Gobette, is the bright blue forget-me-not of
the piece. One critic of a mourning paper
wrote that the piece (“Who’s the Lady?”
not Ethel Dane) was “over the odds” in
places. What he should have written was
that it would probably have been over the
odds if Ethel Dane had not so skilfully
played the leading part. She skimmed the
steeps like a bird. Henry Ford, the Min-
ister of State who likes his little adventure,
was a fine foil to the leading lady. With
her he can go up top. There are, it is true,
some weaknesses in the cast, but this is no
season to carp. Let there be peace on earth
and more comedies like “Who's the Lady?”
Daisy Jerome in “BABES IN THE WOOD.”
The Sydney Tivoli official casualty lists
for the week contain the name of Jack
Cannot. He was put out of action by
Laryngitis (one of those dastardly foes
who strike from behind the white flag as
often as not), and had to be taken to a base
hospital at Coogee. He Lopes to be back
in the thick of the song-and-dance line ere
the year has run its course. In the mean-
time his place in the company is being
filled by the producer of the Follies. Isabelle
D’Armond, Monte Wolf, Vera Pearce and
the comedians who converse as though they
were being strangled, are all well to the front
as before.
* * * *
Another thrill has been introduced into
the White City at Rushcutter’s Bay (Syd-
ney ) > by the well-knoWn Bartlett troupe.
They can be seen against the skyline any
night (for a consideration), performing
acrobatics that curl (he hair.
* * ■ * *
Star pictures' on the Sydney screens:—
Crystal Palace : “The Quack,” a sad Lubin fea-
ture-drama, with a corpse and a moral end concern-
ing the U.S. industry of medical fakes.
Lyric : “The Man of Iron,” a Kalem two-reel
feature-drama containing a stern parent and the
children he unconsciously shoved downhill. Full of
pangs of conscience—you can see them zig-zagging
across his face.
Colonial: “In the Hills of Kentucky,” another
Lubin drama with back-country setting and mining
interest. Just the sort of thing we ought to be
making for ourselves in Australia.
Empress: “A Question of Identity,” Edison murder
mystery, with important French corpse and anarchists.
... -I- -I.
The Christmas drama at Melbourne Royal
is practically a quartette of characters per-
forming a fantasia on popular domestic airs
in four movements. There are three inci-
dental menials, but they are of less import-
ance than the cotton-wool in a box of toys.
The plot deals ingenuously, rather than
ingeniously, with two pairs of married people.
The philosophy is elementary, and the atmo-
sphere smells of old theatrical devices. Yet
the false situations in “Bought and Paid For”
are honestly presented. Moreover, the cheap
sentiment of the drama, which begins and
ends joyfully, will appeal to the optimistic
multitude. Made in America, it teaches
that happiness and dollars cannot live apart.
A respectable dollar king, Robert Stafford,
pauses in his money-making to get married to
a nice working girl, whose comparatively
vulgar sister has a 15-dollar Jimmy on her
hook. Act 11. finds the two couples married
and met together in the gilded house of mil-
lionaire Robert, where the drawing-room has
doors opening into sleeping apartments. Mrs.
Stafford is a dream of fine garments, and her
sister rejoices in the fact that Jimmy now
draws a large, undeserved salary from the
family benefactor. Jimmy is quite ungrate-
ful. He is one of the harmless, upstart
worms who accept their luck, as an insuffi-
cient reward of their merit. Robert the mil-
lionaire is not quite faultless, unfortunately.
About once a week he comes home serenely
drunk and excessively amorous. At such
times Mrs.' Stafford protests that he is not
the kind, bloated capitalist she married,
whereas he claims her endearments on the
ground that he bought and paid for them.
He would not say this when sober. It is
merely the champagne talking. After a
stormy night Robert’s wife decides to go back
to work, jewelless and dollarless, unless he
will sign the pledge. Robert declines the
pledge on principle but promises to keep the
connubial billet open to his wife in case she
may want to return. And then he gratui-
tously resolves to renounce the bottle. In
the last act Mrs. Stafford feels tired of being
back at work. She is living with her sister,
who is also poor again, Jimmy having
chucked up his job in the vain hope that
Robert would refuse his resignation. So
when the sober Robert comes like a fairy
prince upon the scene,' he waves his brolly,
and the poor sufferers are restored to afflu-
ence after three months’ existence on a joint
income of 20 dollars a week.
Charles Millward is a likeable dollar king.
His tall, inflexible American manner—the
manner which Cuyler Hastings introduced to
Australia —is suited to the character, and his
suggestions of a calm, calculating man in an
inconceivable stage of drunkenness are for-
cible enough at times. William Harrigan, as
the vainglorious worm, is convincingly
humorous, without striving to be funny. The
ladies are a widely-contrasted pair of stage
sisters. Miss Davies is shrill, cheerful and
rather stodgy, whilst Miss Starr is her own
husky and individual self.
* * *
A second inspection of “Aladdin,” at
Melbourne King’s, confirms a first impres-
sion that the Andersonian outbreak is a
neatly appointed panto., likely to flourish
on its 3, 2 and 1 terms. Certainly the
lamp outshines “The Land of Nod,”
which suffered a drought on the same stage
a year ago. “Aladdin” is a brisk
and sturdy offspring of the season. With-
out rushing into magnificence it contrives
to look like panto, as a rule. Also it
sounds like panto, and tastes like panto.,
as the comic man in the melodrama is wont
to remark of beer when he finds it lying
about. All the same, it isn’t very like the
usual run of “Aladdins.” King Lopaz has a
sister (Florence Fanning) who somewhat
resembles Katisha, and they both get annexed
by Great Britain when the Allies have
captured the Island of Gold. Hassan is an
agent of the Kaiser, and when the Old Man
of Berlin captures Mrs. Sinbad in her back
yard, the premises are suddenly converted
into the quarter-deck of 11.M.A.5. Sydney,
whereupon the flummoxed Kaiser is taken
down to the stokehole to work for his
tucker. Among the singing members of the
co., who are numerous and tuneful, and can
easily make themselves intelligible above the
strains of a limited orchestra, Eugene Ossi-
poff is an impressive Demon King. The
personality of Maggie Moore continues to
defy the ravages of time, and Harry Burgess
and Laura Roberts are severally responsible
for ditties that bite the ear.
* * * *
The panto, at Her Majesty’s (Melb.) con-
tinues to extend from 7.30 p.m. to something
past 11, and the fact remains that the antics
of Lupino are carried to excess. In the
character of a mere page he amounts to
about half the volume of the show. Lupino
is a sprightly pantomimist with a good sense
of the difference between humorous fooling
and foolish buffoonery, but he isn’t the only
pebble on the beach, or even the late George
Lauri. Two or three scenes in which he
takes the lead —notably the scene outside the
palace gates—are unduly protracted on his
account, whereas the people who have least
to do with Lupino seem to have been starved
of opportunities. In panto., as in European
politics, the world wants balance of power
rather than a preponderance of one partic-
ular brand of culture. Which being said it
is only fair to give the active and intelligent
Lupino particular credit for his limp golly-
wog dance, and his tumbling tricks and his
general business proficiency. No song or
singer in “Cinderella” has got popularity by
the throat thus far, and for that matter the
orchestra is often too loud for the warble in
this broad theatre ; but familiarity is always
apt to breed contempt with panto ditties.
One gets to think of them as things that
might have been worse. Meanwhile the art-
istic Wildflowers Ballet is taking deeper root
in the soul of this observer than Stigant’s
song about Swanston-street; and the scene-
painting of Coleman and Upward, although
less extensive and extenuating than in pre-
vious years, charms him more than the har-
lequinade, which happens only at matinees
and is employed as a means of casting
packets of lollies at the audience. The objec-
tion to such distributions of free gifts is that
a lot of kiddies don’t get ’em.
“The Bad Girl of the Family” seems a sea-
sonable enough attraction at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s, inasmuch as it contains references to
eating and swilling, accompanied by the
lofty sentiments that are dear to Christmas.
Miss Muriel Dale takes the part of the Bad
Girl, who finances her family and conse-
quently gets involved in innuendoes and
lOU’s. People put the worst possible con-
struction on her relations with Plarry Gor-
don (Rutland Beckett), but she reinstates
herself in the good opinion of the populace by
marrying the varlet while he is angling for
the daughter of an earl. Beckett’s wooing
of the high-born maiden is a dogged bit of
work, but is worthy of more dashing
behavior. Fred Kehoe, as the noble earl, is
equally funereal, and could probably lighten
the impression by singing the part with the
support of an undertaker’s chorus. Other
persons in the play are generally cheerful and
unoffending; Conway, as the hero, who parts
from his donah to effect a stronger entente
later on, providing successive illustrations of
Paradise Lost and Paradise Regained. “The
Woman Pays” is advertised for Saturday
next —seasonable, too; for by that time, the
last holiday over, the young man will be
completely bushed.
** * *
Concerning new arrivals at Melbourne
Tivoli, The Bulletin is pleased to com-
mend a Christmas box of mischief labelled
Laura Guerite. Laura’s manner is festive,
her singing neat and expressive, and her
raiment all that could be desired to decor-
ously meet the needs of the hot season-
Lieutenant Stoff works hard as a ventrilo-
quist with three or four dummies, and the
Eclair Bros, perspire freely in an excellent
balancing act. Odiva, the fancy swimmer,
and her erudite seals, are clever enough, but
the act is overloaded with the talk of an
announcer. This personage alludes lengthily
to Odiva’s lung power, and only a nice
modesty stops him from mentioning his own.
* * * *
A miniature revue, entitled “This Is The
Life,” is a novelty at Melbourne Bijou this
week. In this frankly-foolish diversion the
remnants of the old “Grafters” co. warble,
dance or clown away the time that was
previously devoted to the second half of the
programme. In the first half of the bill a
trained elephant and an educated monkey are
driving the management to exceptional deeds
of advertising. The monkey is more enter-
taining than his ponderous companion, and
brings a mischievous manner to bear on the (
performance of his part of the show.


The “good sport” spirit of our gallant
soldier boys has tickled the Pyramids and
made all Egypt gleeful. May the gallant
spirit of King George IY. and his topnotch
Scotch be with them.*
m,
m
mb
v;
v*
i
HOW I CURED MY COLD!
(By a Melbourne Journalist.)
I am a literary man, and my work is more or less
sedentary. For years I used to catch cold at the
least change in the weather. I tried swallowing drugs
—and my washstand looks like an apothecary’s shop.
One day I met a man who had tried
“NAZETHA’’
The Big Cold Cure in the Little Bottle.
He poured two tiny drops on my handkerchief, and I
snuffed the Soothing, curing, refreshing ethers through
my nose. Marvellous 1 I exclaimed. It relieved the
pains in thev head and throat, stopped the running
of the phlegm. I bought a bottle, and always carry
it in my breast pocket—and always use it at the
least sign of a cold. YOU try it. Insist on
“Nazetha” from the chemist.
There’s nothing just as good. Jjs Post Free.
A MILLER & SONS, Hobart, Tasmania.
Wholesale -Duerdin’s, Rocke’s, Felton's, of Melbourne.
Maud Allan and the Cherniavskys are
just now appealing to Melbourne’s highah
culchaw at the Auditorium, where they
opened a good-bye season last Saturday.
The dancer repeated her Chopin numbers,
also the Blue Danube Waltz and the “Peer
Gynt” suite, to the music of the brethren
whose name suggests the butter industry.
Leo, Jan and Mischel trioed and soloed as
of yore, the course of the programme being
interrupted by the usual encores. To-night
(Wednesday) and on Friday and Saturday
the feet of Maud Allan will be again un-
shod, and presumably she will dance around
the head of John the Baptist on at least
one of these occasions.
** * *
A weird advt. announces that “Australia’s
Unknown” will be “revealed” in Melbourne
next Saturday. Dark suspicion points to
the Athenaeum Hall as the place of dis-
closure.
ij:
Down at St. Kilda the Green Dandies con-
tinue their concerted song-and-frivol opera-
tions six times a week. Last time The Bul-
letin’s seaside editor visited their haunt,
the musical comedy strength of the company
was fully exploited in “Oratorio Up to
Date,” a curtain-dropper which might very
well have lasted a further few minutes.
Walton was more than sufficiently funny as
the Recruiting Sergeant. The basso, bari-
tone and tenor treated their good voices in
a deserving manner, and the seat of the scorn-
ful remained unoccupied throughout the pro-
ceedings. A very melodious item was the
trio of Ben Calvert (the tenor aforesaid),
Dorothy Manning and Tessa Byrne, concern-
ing Zulu love affairs. Regarded in its de-
scriptive aspect this was twice as silly as
most other songs about dusky maidens, but
considered as a vocal exercise it was quite
all right.
“The New Arabian Nights,” based, pre-
sumably, on Stevenson’s fantastic yarn
of a suicide club, and “By the Sun’s
Rays,” a conventional narrative of booty and
bandits, were the leading items at Hoyt’s
National (Melbourne) last week. At Hoyt’s
Olympia citizens were entertained by a serio-
comic detective nightmare illustrating phases
of graft, yellow journalism, and other Amur-
kan national industries. “The Law,” a three-
act star drama, also ran.
* * *
The Close Season for Adelaide theatres
has ended, and on the 26th the Royal (with
“Bunty’s” pawky humor), Tivoli and King’s
all reopened their doors; also Wirths’
Circus got busy on the old Exhibition pitch.
The interregnum has been a good time for
the open-air shows. The best thing in sight
at the Dandies is the striking personality
of Dorothy Gardner, and Cuthbert Rose is
a versatile impersonator. At the Strollers,
Madeline Rossiter has the personality,
Sydney .Tames is an all-round performer
who excels. in local and topical humor, and
Gwen Lewis does Margaret Cooper turns at
the piano. In pictures, the old “Sign of
the Cross” is the most striking thing in
sight, and Wondergraph acutely warns the
public to hurry up and see it before the
Williamson Co.’s threatened injunction
against it comes off.
“H. 1.0.”: “Ami” (B. 17/12/T4) gives
Robert Brough the elder credit for writing
a satirical poem, “The Marquis of Carabas,”
which he says “has some bite in it.” Ber-
anger, a French poet who also had some
reputation for satire in his day, is the
author of a poem with the same title. It
may be that “Ami” mistakes a translation
of Beranger’s verse for an original produc-
tion by Brough. On the other hand, perhaps
the singer of the French Revolution
plagiarised the more modern verse-writer, as
these old-time blighters had a habit of doing.
“Melb”: Again the harlequinade in both
local pantomimes. This feature was for-
merly spoilt _by giving the Clown, as a
“perk,” the right to introduce advertisements.
Joe Grimaldi, a century ago, was so great
that the name stuck to all clowns. He
excelled in songs, notably “Hot Codlins”
and “Tippetywitchet.” In this city Charles
Young was the first really popular member
of the tribe. Then came Joe Chambers,
first harlequin and then clown. After him
the Leopold Family (Harry, Tom, George
and Fraulein Fannie) became a regular
standby. Harwood’s versatility extended
from Macduff to Clown. Tom Lewis and
Harry Sefton were familiar as Clown and
Pantaloon. Mary Weir (Mrs. J. C. Wil-
liamson) was a graceful Columbine. The
most splendid harlequinade on record was
Barry Sullivan’s to “Lalla Rookh,” 1863.
There were two Harlequins, John Edouin and
Harry Leopold; two Clowns, Charles Edouin
and Tom Leopold; two Pantaloons, Willie
Edouin and George Leopold; two Colum-
bines, Julia Edouin and Fannie Leopold.
For one year Bland Holt revived the busi-
ness, appearing as Clown, with Joe Tolano
as Pantaloon; and the Faust Family gave
a fine and elaborate harlequinade at the
Princess’s.
The estate of “Butty” McMahon, the Syd-
ney carrier recently deceased, is said by his
lawyers to be worth “at least £500,000.” A
point about the will is that R. N. Johnson,
N.S.W. Stamp Commissioner, is one of the
trustees. If Johnson as trustee should appeal
from the assessment of stamp duty imposed
by Johnson the Commissioner, the trium-
phant shouts of Gent One will knock the
welkin limp.
The Syrians in Melbourne are protesting
against the order that they shall consider
themselves Turkish enemies and report
periodically to the authorities. Being Chris-
tians, the Syrians protest that they have
nothing whatever in common with the Mus-
sulman subjects of the Unspeakable Sultan.
But then comes the argument that religion
has nothing to do with the case, millions of
dusky Mohammedans being on the side, not
of the Sultan, but of Christian Britain.
Moreover, the Syrians have mostly declared
themselves to be enthusiastic “Young Turks,”
and as such have posed as the true patriots
of the country that is now sending an army
to fight Anglo-Australian forces in Egypt.
Altogether, the Young Turks of the anti-
Mussulman variety are in a delicate position,
and some of them probably wish now they
hadn’t shrieked for national reform.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Dumper”: Picture showmen can’t swal-
low the duty of 2d. per foot (which means
anything from 50 per cent, to 100 per cent.
ad valorem ) on films. Recently a number of
them very foolishly signed contracts for two
years’ supplies from the film Combine, agree-
ing to pay a pro rata increase if a duty was
imposed on what were then free goods. On
December 5 the Combine announced that its
charges on all films, whether imported prior
to that date or not, had increased by 50 per
cent. Very few shows in and around the
capitals are giving a profit at the present
time, so, unless they increase their charges
to the public, ruin flickers at them from the
screen. With a strong association composed
of loyal members there would be no trouble
about increasing admission charges; but the
showmen (I speak now of Sydney) are
jealous and mistrustful of each other, and can
never agree on any course of action for their
mutual benefit. Following the Combine
announcement, the independent exchanges
decided that they would fall into line and
increase their prices 50 per cent. also. This
move came as a thunderclap to the showmen,
who had confidently counted on a price war
between the independents and the Combine.
Unfortunately, just as the situation was full
of promise, one of the independent exchanges
ratted, and the rest of them were forced to
follow suit. Now they are charging the
extra price (from 35 per cent, to 40 per
cent.) only on films on which they have actu-
ally paid duty. Meanwhile the Combine is
adamant and demands its pound of flesh. (It
always does.) Showmen who are signed up
to it are refusing to pay their accounts and
are taking legal advice; also they are talking
of a showmen’s co-operative exchange.
But I know them and will bet the
cigars my wife gave me last week that
before the end of the year they will not only
have settled their accounts, but will be once
more feeding out of the Combine’s hand.
“SINBAD THE SAILOR ,” AT MEL-
BOURNE KING’S.
Sinoad the [ ?]ailor.
Principal boy Sinbad.
“Constant Writer”: The Sydney Adelphi
pantomime deserves loud cheers for giving
scope in the costumes for the decorative
fancy of D. H. Souter. No other artist
whose work I have seen has anything like
Souter’s gift of decorative invention. As
regards stage costume, the chief difference
between him and the usual designer is this
matter of decoration. While others work
almost entirely in masses of color, he freely
introduces figured stuffs and varied stencil-
lings, of a sufficient boldness to look well
from the far seats, yet pleasing also when
viewed from near at hand. And, then, His
fancy in other directions! —as in the surfing
ballet, with no two costumes alike. If
Manly or Coogee girls could look like -that,
most of the male population of Sydney would
camp on the beaches. Decidedly the made-
imAustralia costume design is justified by
this pantomime achievement of Souter’s.
“Cherub Aloft” : The first-night and last-
night speeches that used to be common in
vaudeville are gradually dying out —the
“Thank-you-for-your-kind-applause; back-in-
Australia-after-seven-years; grateful-from-
bottom-of-my-heart; and-if-you-will-kindly-
give - me - time-for-a-change-of-costume-I-will-
now-introduce” kind of thing. But they are
finding their way elsewhere. On the first
night of “The Babes in the Wood,” at Syd-
ney Adelphi, Daisy Jerome made two of them.
I can’t recall a speechifying principal girl in
any other Australian panto, but Daisy
doesn’t mind breaking a tradition or so.
Concerning a lady who refuses to be a
back number: —
Gaby Desiys is appearing in a sketch called “The
Rajah’s Ruby” at London Palace. The Palace,
which was originally built as a house for English
opera and was opened with Sullivan’s “Ivanhoe,”
is supposed to shelter nightly the most discriminat-
ing vaudeville audience in the world. The peculi-
arity about Gaby is that, although she “draws” like
anything, she doesn’t “take” a bit. A first-night
Gaby audience is always the same. A heated crush
of well-dressed males, grave, intent and bald. They
have come to see Gaby, but there is never a whisper
of applause. It is difficult to see what the attrac-
tion is, as Gaby is not beautiful, by any
means. Her limbs, both in their form and in her
manipulation of them, are cart-horsey and stocky.
She ever keeps well to the front the fact that she
was a whilom indiscretion of Manoel, ex-King of Por-
tugal, and this has somehow always served her adver-
tising purposes in London and Paris ;■ and neither
the marriage of Manoel to a Deutscher female nor
Gaby’s own goings-on with her absurd partner,
Pilcer, seem to dim the lustre of this old tenth-rate
quasi-Royal imbroglio.
William Barrington Miller, of Maoriland,
who two years ago accepted an invitation
to clear up the J. D. Williams mess in the
Australasian cine business, has knocked off
for a spell. For the first few months after
he took charge it was a toss-up whether the
amazing co. would pull through, and writs
were as plentiful as shareholders’ wails.
Thirty thousand pounds had to be found to
settle old troubles, and the last of them
was got rid of only a fortnight ago at a
cost of £9OOO. In the past year the co. paid
a 5 per cent, dividend, and there should be
more of the same sort in the box.
“SINBAD THE SAILOR."
Mrs. Stubad. Dick Daring.
“J.F.IL”: The funniest episode of the war
so far has been the formal annexation of
Shakspeare by Germany. It was a bloodless
victory, England offering not the slightest
resistance. The event was announced in
a theatre of Leipsic before the rising of the
curtain on “Twelfth Night.” A special pro-
logue was written for the historic occasion
by one Ernest Hardt, of Weimar, and it
was recited by the Fool in attendance on
Olivia. It referred to Shakspeare as a man
who “was godhead by his works.” England
was his “first and native home,” but that
country has now become so “contrarious”
and “abhorred,” and so repugnant to his
proud, free-born spirit, “that he doth find
himself quite homeless "there.” Hence as a
fugitive he seeks a second home in Germany,
“which loves him most of all.” And the
px-ecious prologue, which ought to find an
enduring place in the world’s catalogue of
unconscious humor, winds up with the Bard
of Avon apostrophising the country ruled by
the Royal Babykiller : —•
Thou wonderful and noble land!
Remain thou Shakspeare’s one and only home.
So that he wander not uncomprehended, ~
Without a shelter in the barren world.
Arthur Hunter, whose death was reported
in a recent Bulletin, made a speciality of
waiters in musical comedy. An operatic
baritone in his early days, he toured Eng-
lish opera with Emma .’VV'angenheim and
others, and was at one tinjfe in management
in Kalgoorlie. His waiters in “The Merry
Widow.” “The Quaker Girl” and the “Waltz
Dream” stand out as little gems of make-up
and acting.
“Forty Years on the Stage,” by J. H.
Barnes, contains some good stories. He
served under Mrs. Swanborough, the Mrs.
Malaprop of London manageresses, t Con-
gratulated once on a pretty new stage
carpet she replied: “I’m glad you like it.
The Prince, of Wales was here the other
night and expectoi’ated at it.” It was to
Bai’nes that the author of “A'Message from
Mai’s” first brought that money-maker.. It
impressed him, but he hawked it about
London for months without being able to
convince any manager - that there was
money in it. All the author wanted was
£lOO. Eventually Charles Hawtrey chanced
it and made an instantaneous hit.
After a run of 20 months, Arnold Be -
nett’s “Great Adventure” was taken oil at
London Kingsway on November 7. it cer-
tainly would have celebrated its second
anniversary if Kaiser Bill had not issued
orders that every place was to be taken
regardless of cost.
“J.F.H.”: Eight Shakspearian plays in
one week is the latest record of the Benson
company at the Kennington, in South
London —a spacious playhouse close to the
Oval, where the Australian Bardsley immor-
talised himself by making a double century
in a test match. F. It. Benson is a relative
of a recent Archbishop of Canterbury, and
is the head of what is practically the finest
training school of the English stage. Most
of the leading English players of to-day
learned their business in his touring Shaks-
pearian company. Oscar Asche and Lily
Bra.vton are among the number. Like old
Billy Hoskins, of Melbourne, the discoverer
of Henry Irving, all the members of Benson’s
company can reel off Shakspeare by the
fathom. Their latest week’s Kennington
programme included “Merry Wives of Wind-
sor,” “Merchant of Venice,” “Romeo and
Juliet,” “Hamlet,” “Taming of the Shrew,”
“Richard the Third,” “Twelfth Night” and
“Julius Caesar.”
The gramophone is the worst-paid super,
in big theatres these days. Instead of em-
ploying sausage-drinking, beer-eating ruffians
to give an imitation of the roaring of an
angry mob the economical stage-manager
hands the part to the musical box. Tree has
repeatedly used it in his theatre, where it has
been a brass band, a joyous peal of bells and
an excited crowd. There are times, no
doubt, when it alone can play the part. In
a recent show the laugh of a hyena had to be
heard “off.” In order to produce this a
gramophone expert was sent to the Zoo and
there succeeded in capturing a sample of the
beast’s offensive mirth.
“Aristide” : The French season of Revues
at London Middlesex has stopped. The
Middlesex, the newest and perhaps the bright-
est of the West End halls, occupies the
site of the renowned “Old Mo,” the last of
the London halls to be run by a chairman
with a baton and a beer-pot. The players
in these French Revues came from the Ba-
Ta-Clan, in the Boulevard des Italiens. The
gentlemen have been called back to serve in
the army; the ladies have probably gone to
nurse .and knit. The English Revue re-
placing them is called “All French,” and
consists principally of Hugh E. Wright,
author of and chief performer in “Kill That
Fly,” “Bd. a Mile,” and other masterpieces or
servantpieces at the Alhambra. It has been
running for some time in London, and Mcln-
tosh had nearly come to terms with Wright
for bringing it to Australia when something
or other turned up and the negotiations fell
down.
“Kaniva”: Apropos Governor Stanley’s
visit to the Old Colonists’ Homes (Vic.).
The Argus says that Mrs. Gladstone, whom
his Ex. met here, appeared with Barry
Sullivan in 1856. Wrong! Sullivan opened
in Melbourne on August 7, 1862, playing
Hamlet, with “Joey” Gougenheim as
Ophelia. When the late Richard Stewart
(father of our Nellie) passed out the Age
remarked that he played with Barry Sulli-
van in 1860. That was nearer the mark,
but still wrong. It was G. V. Brooke these
parties played with at that time.
“J.F.H.” : Revivals are still the order of
the day here in London. “Our Boys” is
the latest. First produced almost 40 years
ago, it had a record run of five years, mak-
ing big fortunes for the partners, David
James and Thomas Thorne. James, born
Belasco and a Jew, stuck to his lot and
retired. Thorne, born Thorne and merely a
Gentile, lost all his in subsequent theatrical
ventures. A brother, Fred, was the leading
man of Mrs. G. B. Lewis’s co. at Melbourne
Bijou. Kate Bishop, mother of Marie
Lohr, and wife of “Daddy,” who led
“The Private Secretary” round Australia,
is one of the few survivors of the original
cast. She is still in harness and is a regu-
lar first-nighter in the stalls when not
engaged on the stage.
“Kaniva” : Here’s something of a coinci-
dence in ..pantomime , production : In ISB4,
“Cinderella” was played at the Royal
(Melb.), with Maggie Moore, Docy and
Nellie Stewart (the latter in the name part),
Greville, Edwin Kelly and John Wallace in
the cast. “Smbad,” at the Opera House,
had Emma Bronton, Mabel Tracy, Amy
Horton, Blanche Lewis, Harry Power,
Charlie Taylor, Walter Carle and Harry
Hodson as principals. Thirty years after
we have “Cinderella” again at the Royal,
while “Sinbad” finds himself a home at the
King’s. Among present players Maggie
Moore is the sole survivor of the old lots,
and she has changed over from “Cinders” to
“Sinbad.”
“Rosna” : Fiddler t Leslie Harris, of Adel-
aide, who has been chasing his noisy art
round Europe for the last 14 years, is among
the valuable people who are mislaid. When
last reported he was conducting an orchestra
at the Brandenburg Conservatoire; but that
is months and months ago.
(Continued on page 30.)
DEVOTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The supernumeraries who have to listen have been
denounced elsewhere for looking wooden. The
writer would rather give them credit for acting
doggedly and showing magnificent devotion to duty
under a deadly Are of blither.— Bulletin.
We stand around and “supe” ;
We listen to the blither
Of talk that leads no-whither —-
A silent, thinking troupe—•
The rottenest dialogue ever heard.
And yet we never say a word!
We dress the stage and dog-
Gedly we nightly stick it;
A worse play who could pick it?
Plot ? Story ? Hopeless fog !
The whole un-natural, absurd.
And yet we never say a word!
We hang around each Act —-
Oh, painful is the drivel!
We watch the front seats snivel ;
The house is simply packed.
We know the show should “get the bird,”
Arid yet we never say a word!
We’re not allowed to mum-—•
More than “Hooray” ’s unlawful.
The “principals” are awful!
We feel it, still we’re dumb:
But, oh! if those in front referred
To us ! Hut Duty — not a word l
VICTORIA.
GRATEFUL BANNER-BEARER.


#
©6e
Golf Shirt
©6c
All-Com fort
and
All-Occasion
SHirt.
DAVID JONES, LTD.
Opp. G.P.0.,
SIDNEY.
For Business or Pleasure
U/ye Golf SHirt
The finest shirt for wear on almost
any occasion. As smart as it is com-
fortable. We have just opened a new
selection, in material of special Jap
Cr6pe, and offer them at a real value
price. They are beautiful shirts ; a
pure white ground, with effective
narrow stripes of black, blue or helio-
trope. Wear well, look well and
launder splendidly. Collars to match.
Try just one. Price
We Pay Carriage.
DAVID JONES, LTD.,
Opp. G.P.O. “SYDNEY,
Successful
Tooth Cleaning
should be more than a mere
phrase,—it becomes actual
fact for the people who use
Sold by local
Druggists Gr Stores.
Mads by
F.C. Calvert & Co.
Manchester, Kng.
SOCIETY
PENEOLDS
WINES
“Vic.” : To me the most important event
of the month in this State was the turning
out of the first locomotive from the
works of Thompson and Co., now
definitely anchor'd at Castlemaine. The
Government has ordered 40, and Ballarat
and Bendigo workshops have received
similar guarantees. On the strength of this
Thompson and Co. have spent £63,000 on
additional works. Six locos, can be in hand
at once, and the output can be brought up
to one a week. The wheeling-out of the
first loco, was made the occasion of an
appropriate ceremony. A lady, Mrs. D.
Thompson, mounted the footplate, whistled,
opened the throttle, and off the engine went
out of the shop amid lusty cheering. Then
she accomplished the more difficult job of
stopping it. Incidentally, Railway Com-
missioner Mackinnon spoke of the great
ironworks to be soon started at New-
castle, and looked forward joyously to
the time when we shall make all our
steel rails ourselves. But here’s the
codlin moth in the apple. Thomp-
son and Co. complain that out of their 125
apprentices only 22 will improve themselves
by a course of technical school training,
although the firm gives every facility, and
offers large inducements.
IN DAILY LAND.
MOTHERED CALF: “My mother's name is Strawberry. What's your mother's name?"
PODDY (gloomily): “Mick O'Brian."
What is becoming famous in Melbourne as
“the Church-street bridge imbroglio,” moved
a step forward the other day, when Prahran
Council, fearing that someone might fall
through and claim damages, barricaded the
structure at its end, and thus blocked all
traffic. As various parties had threatened
to hew down any obstruction, P’ran took
no chances, but bolted a stout iron fence to
the girders, with barbed-wire entanglements
to prevent anyone scaling the thing. As
Richmond Council disconnected itself from
the matter, the Richmond end of the bridge
was left open; so light carters drove over
the bridge, and transferred the goods across
the fence to other drivers. This, however,
wasn’t feasible for the man with a cargo
of bricks or a load of sand, so he had to
go two miles down the river to Prince’s
Bridge, and back again, and his opinion of
the whole business was simply vile. There
is a bridge at Anderson-street, a half-mile
down, but Anderson-street boasts a gradient
of about 10 in one, and is only suitable for
goat traffic.
* * * *
“Stud’n’s’l”: Years back, when Newcastle
(N.S.W.) was more the home of crimps
than it is to-day, the bad ship (say) Gol-
conda was lying in the Horseshoe, fully
loaded for Antofagasta, waiting for a crew.
Now, a crew took some waiting for, the
fame of the Golconda and her red-headed
Scotch skipper, McTavish, being well known.
Even the boarding-masters were hard put
to it to rake up a lot for McTavish. At last
they succeeded, and the impatient skipper
was able to order pilot and tugs for the
morning tide. That evening, as a local
waterman was pulling up the harbor, he
heard himself hailed from the bows of the
Golconda by a fireman from one of
Brown’s tugs, who had been shanghaied. In
a hoarse whisper the fireman begged his
friend to get hold of the water-police
sergeant. An hour later the police were on
board, the fireman ashore and the master
served with a blue paper. Next day, at
the police court, he was fined £25. The
following morning when pilot and tugs were
getting ready for the delayed start,
McTavish was interrupted by the arrival of
two men with an account for £5O from
the boarding-masters who had raked New-
castle for a crew for him. Like lightning
the enraged sailor made up his mind. “Take
that,” he yelled. “That” was a revolver
shot which hummed past one of the crimps
and splintered the glass of the cabin door;
and “that,” a second bullet which whizzed past
crimp No. 2, splintering the main mast.
McTavish kept popping his shooting-iron
while all hands scattered. In two minutes
the crimps were overboard, pulling furiously
to get out of range, and the skipper had the
deck to himself. “Now then, Mr. Pilot,”
commanded McTavish in a satisfied tone,
“hurry please, or we’ll lose the tide.” The
scared pilot emerged from cover, and as it
wasn’t his pigeon he took the Golconda to
sea. If you want to know whether he felt
comfortable, you’ll have to ask Captain
Hacking, the veteran who retired from the
Superintendent of Navigation job the other
day.
HOSPITALITY.
MURRAY JACK: “ My word , plenty rain, Miss! You better come under this pheller
gingham!”
“Weekly Bills”: I have been collecting,
at first and second-hand, the confidential
reasons given by our chaps for the active
part they are getting ready to take in the
War. Of course every man’s first and basic
reason is patriotism; but he has others of
a more personal nature. Here are a few
exhibits: —
No. 1 wants to be in Beilin or Paris (Paris
preferred), when it’s over, to see how the overjoyed
Continental woman mafficks.
No. 2 wants ter see what it’s like.
No. 3 can’t get the girl he wants. (Fairly fre-
quent complaint.)
No. 4 is dead tired of the old round, and wants
to see how it feels to have other people planning
out your life for you. If he comes back safely, No.
4 reckons that the old, bill-paying round, which
now looks so drab, may have recovered some of its
original charm.
No. s—married5 —married 10 years; only child dead; wife
mournful and discontented ; business prospects nil.
Going because it seems the obvious thing to do.
No. 6 is a case of plain, youthful enthusiasm for
uproar, change, smash and popular applause.
No. 7 is out of work owing to war and dry season.
As war is only a little more dangerous than many
peace-time jobs, he has turned soldier in a quiet,
business-like spirit. (Many hard, brown battalions
of this variety.)
No. 8 wants to travel a bit before he dies, and
thinks it is as good a chance as any he’ll ever get.
(Fairly frequent.)
No. 9 (very virile type) can’t be out of a thing
like this.
No. 10 (mild failure) grasps at the war as offer-
ing him another chance. He has the cruel but per-
fectly correct idea that it really doesn’t matter
what happens to him.
And, by the way, how we have all altered
our valuations of life itself! The stark old
fact has been driven home to us that, if a
man does not have the luck to be killed
swiftly by a train or a bullet, he will pro-
bably die of something lingering in bed.
* * * *
“Callan Park” : I observe that some of my
friends, while strongly of opinion that every-
body else should go to the war, are staying
at home themselves. Knowing my friends, I
venture to think that the stories we are get-
ting in the papers are not quite the right
bait for them. Failing the introduction of
Compulsory Service, the only way to catch
them will be to organise a Corps of Liars.
The duty of these officials will be to present
warfare in roseate colors. For instance: —
The war was resumed to-day in perfect winter
weather. The clear, keen air for which Flanders is
famed, seemed to give additional stimulus to our
gallant lads. The bursting of the shells was like
a fireworks exhibition, only finer. High above the
noise of the explosions rose the cheery badinage of
the British, who chaffed the Germans in the adjacent
trenches most unmercifully. At 1 p.m. the soldiers
lunched —a simple three-course meal of soup, a bird
and a sweet. The wine of the country was good
enough for most, but British beer and whisky were
also available. After coffee, liqueurs and a smoke
operations were renewed.
The bridge played in the trenches is of a high
class. The usual hours are between 12 and 2 p.m.
—when fighting slackens to allow for lunch —anti
from tea-time onward. Some of the finest players
in the Portland and Windham clubs are available for
a rubber at any hour in reason.
A pretty incident was witnessed near Carnbrai the
other day. The scene was an old chateau. Beneath
a mighty oak-tree on the lawn sat a youthful British
soldier. Around him clustered, in attitudes express-
ive of adoration, a group of maidens, all of them
beautiful. “Tell us,” they cried, in the melodious
tongue of their race, “of your adventures.” There,
while a butler and two footmen supplied him with
foie gras sandwiches, champagne (Krug. 1904), and
cigars (Corona-Coronas), he told of how he had shot,
stabbed and bayonetted Germans from Ypres to
CompiOgne. He had paused momentarily for breath
and liquid refreshment, when an imposing procession
wound round the beautiful carriage drive. It was led
by one wearing a Field-Marshal’s uniform. Behind
followed a glittering array of generals, a Guards
regiment and two bands. Advancing briskly Sir
John French —for he it was—saluted, and in a few
soldierly words intimated that he was there, under
instructions from the British War Office, to bestow
on the youthful warrior the V.C., the D. 5.0., the
M.V.0., the C.M.G. and a knighthood. The
picturesque ceremony over, the General left intimat-
ing to the young hero that he could have a week’s
holiday on full pay in consideration of services ren-
dered to king and country. The last I saw of the
latter he was walking off, ablaze with decorations,
and with his arm round the waist of the prettiest of
the girls.
The 95th Lancers had great sport yesterday. At
11.30 a.m orders were given to charge the Germans.
It was an ideal day. The first obstacle—a post and
rail —was taken by the regiment in its stride. Some
pretty work followed over the dykes, where the
Colonel’s mount —a Waler unused to the water —tried
several times to refuse. The 95th ran the foe to
earth after a 45 minutes’ burst over a splendid line
of 'country, and broke him up amid loud cheers.
After casting round for a while, the Lancers got on
to a fresh line —a regiment of Uhlans —and hunted
them for about an hour, when they went to ground
in a fortress. But the run of the day was afforded
by the Potsdam Cuirassiers—an hour and twenty
minutes all over grass, timber and oxers, and end-
ing in a kill in the open.
Such messages would make war alluring to
the most virile, and hence the best, type of
possible volunteer. lam prepared to supply
an indefinite number at, say, 2J guineas per
column.
For the manyth time Coroner Cole the
other day referred wearily to Melbourne’s
need of a home for nursing mothers;
whereupon Premier Peacock remarked that
Cole’s comments were “more casual than
illuminating.” as “under the Infant Life
Protection Act provision is made for board-
ing out infants.” Had Peacock inquired
into the case which provoked the Coroner’s
criticism he would have found that a 28-days
old infant had died from starvation, being
unable to digest the cow’s milk given it by
the woman to whom it was boarded out. The
small Australian required other feeding, and
would have got it if Melbourne owned a
home where both infant and mother would
be received.
FOR FREEDOM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is my fight and yours! We cannot stand
And watch the Tyrant win, whate’er our race.
So take the sword —or take the pen—in hand
And hit for Freedom! Smite the angry face
Of any fool that rises up before,
In street or column, ship or trench or bar,
And with the remnants of him wipe the floor,
Thinking that in him all your troubles are
Embodied and made punchable! Oh, fight!
And in your fury find a rare delight!
Things I can’t grasp or kick will bring me down,
And break my heart and health—small, grimy
cares,
The worst of tyrants, hound me round the town,
And dim my eyes and pluck my greying hairs ;
And there are snuffling knaves that rob with bows,
Knowing I dare not kick their wretched hides.
Why, then, endure these phantoms and these cows
When for my ease an open foeman rides?
Down with the German tyrant! Beat him flat,
For hate of tyrants that you can’t get at!
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


0
waita,
mm
AX
RAL!
-x
SEAMLESS RIDING BOOTS
—BUILT TO SUIT THE STIRRUPS.
Men who are much in the saddle really need boots of this
kind —need them for comfort and for service.
The uppers are of one piece and lined with light leather,
thus being very strong and yet comfortable. The elastic is
of good lasting quality, and the pull-on tags are of leather,
strongly sewn.
The bdots are easily the best investment for the rider.
In Tan or Black Calf,
Please state size when ordering.
New Catalogue, in colors, on request.
■
PEAPES g CO. LTD.
Men’s Outfitters,
309-311 George St., Sydney
“Vic.”: The most remarkable spectacle of
this scholastic year-end was that of Melba
handing out the prizes at the Presbyterian
Ladies’ College, amid a circle of smirking
clergymen and distinguished wowsers, female
and male. Consider first that this involved
the complete withdrawal of Presbyterian
opposition to the stage. In the generation
before last they would not even tolerate
the kist o’ whistles in church, and if there
was a choir no woman was tolerated in it.
A horrible nasal individual, called the Pre-
centor, led off the singing, which was con-
fined to dry old doggerel versions of the
Psalms —or even worse, the Paraphrases.
Now Melbourne Presbyterianism gives forth
that Melba is the grandest product of its
pious college, for assuredly no other ex-pupil
would have been honored with the prize-dis-
tribution. Opera singing is thus proclaimed
to be the highest function of woman.
DAME FASHION'S CAPRICES.
THE VICTIM (who has learned modern ball-
room dancing from a correspondence
school): “Great Casar How in thunder
can I‘grip the lady firmly round the
wais !'"
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Apropos that
Goulburn gibbet and the pleasant manners
of our ancestors (B. 17/12/T4). Local
aborigines in 1830 brought word to the police
at the Goulburn camp that one Roach, over-
seer at Cliffords’ Creek, had been murdered.
Two men, White and Mooney, were con-
victed of the crime, and were hanged in irons
at Goulburn in the same year. They re-
mained, bleaching in sun and rain, until
1833, when Governor Bourke ordered the
burial of the skeletons.
A CHRISTMAS TOAST.
“Peace on earth, cheap swell towards men.”
“Aristide”: Compare the pending
S. Australian struggle to have the
pubs closed at eight o’clock (at
latest) with the French system.
France is one of the most sober coun-
tries in the world, yet it attaches no
importance to the question of hours.
The principle relied upon is that
drink shall be consumed in public.
Under the system favored by the Brit-
ish race drink is served in secret
places known as bars. So well re-
cognised is the true and inner mean-
ing of the system that proceedings in
bars share pride of place in the patter
of music-hall comedians with adultery,
the poisoning of mothers-in-law and
similar devices, all essentially secret
and in their varying degrees shameful.
Under the French system of govern-
ing the traffic no secrecy is permitted.
If the customer is not at a table which
is actually on the pavement itself he
is in a cafe which is fronted by sheet
glass, the interior being thus visible
to the whole street. Nobody is
ashamed of having a drink if he wants
it, and husbands of all classes sit
down with their wives and children
in such places. These people could
never go into bars, yet licensed pre-
mises are in theory given their licenses
for the general benefit of the com-
munity and not merely for the parti-
cular benefit of its rakes and drunk-
ards. Certainly, being ashamed to
get drunk in public, the French drunk-
ard gets drunk at home. But he
usually doesn’t get much encourage-
ment fLere: and in any case the change of
venue saves the public from a deal of un-
pleasantness in the streets.
* * * *
Dunedin (M.L.) got a shock the
other morning when it arose and found
the German eagle floating in the
breeze from the flagpole on the Town
Hall. At first the whisky and haggis
metropolis imagined that it had been
captured in the night by a German cruiser,
and all hands took an extra tiddley to
fortify them against having to part with a
wee bit indemnity before lunch-time. It
turned out that the German flag was cap-
tured in Samoa by Captain Wilkinson of
the M.L. forces, who sent it to the
headmaster of the High School as
a gift. The latter graciously allowed
it to be flown for one day from
the tower of the Town Hall. This
habit of soldiers making personal property
of flags captured by the nation seems in
danger of being overdone.
* * # *
“T. 0.1.” : I’m afraid some of the founders
of our First Families were not as “loyal”
as their descendants would have us think
they always were. Here’s a case. In the
last days of King William IV. that soft-
headed monarch presented a suit of armor
to a Maori chief. It cost £2O 11s. lOd. We
know because he sent the bill to Governor
Bourke (N.S.W.) for payment. The Gov-
ernor placed it upon the Estimates. This
brought forth the following formal protest
from John Blaxland, one of the seven non-
official members of the then limited Council:
I protest against the oayment of the sum of £2O
11s. lOd. for a suit of armor presented to a New
Zealand chief by his present Majesty, King William
the Fourth, the same being merely a private gift
of bis Maiesty’s. and having reference neither to any
real or even alleged services to this colony : and f
therefore protest against such payment, inasmuch
as I am of opinion it would be a violation of
colonial principle of the first importance, both to
the present and future mutual welfare of the Mother
Country and this dependency; and I am further of
opinion that such payment would be injurious to our
much beloved and illustrious Sovereign, as well as
derogatory to the honor and dignity and true in-
terests of the British Crown.
However, it is said the bill was paid—just
as the British Government many years later
grudgingly paid the bills sent in by the Duke
of Edinburgh for the trumpery presents he
gave to his toadies during his visit to Aus-
tralia.
“Bluthner”: A sweet-voiced young man
with fair hair and eyeglasses, who should be
studying medicine at home, is standing by a
piano which is being caressed by a musical
girl-student. Over on the sofa, in a graceful,
listening attitude, is the girl who is being
sung to so beautifully
this summer night.
Somewhere about is
an intrusive small
boy (myself). Singer,
pianist and listeners
are Australians bred
and born ; the song is
a tender air of Old
Germany beginning
“Once I had a Little
Fatherland.” Nothing
could be more peace-
ful. The small boy
and the others seem
to see the vineyards
and fields and old,
grey streets —all the
things whose loss the
poor Teuton exile is
softly bewailing. The
song dies away, and
everybody is too
thoughtful and low-
spirited to start talk-
ing again immedi-
ately. Now, 21 years
later, the sweet-voiced
young man is middle-
aged and mute; the
clever girl-pianist long
ago relinquished musi-
cal ambitions and disappeared in a wel-
ter of Christian Science; the drawing-
room is old and shabby and rented to
barbaric strangers who love comic
screechophone records and beer; and the
two listeners, grown savage and cynical
in journalism, earn honest coin by gibing at
the accursed German, who has gone mad
and wants to make the whole d —d world
his Fatherland ! Doesn’t life crumble ?
“Gunner”: I’ve just received a booklet
entitled: “French While You Wait,” with
“Phrases specially introduced for the depart-
ing Troops,” giving phonetic pronunciation.
When Billjim arrives in France he is in-
structed to say : “Donnay mwah ung pakay
der seegarett.” He is also entitled to ask
the time, or say: “Send this to the hotel,”
“Go and call me a cab.” “Where is the
bathroom?” “Have you a front room?”
Other useful phrases are: “Porter, come
here and take these parcels to the cloak-
room.” “There is a tip for you.” “Make
me a cup of very hot tea.” “Where is the
first-class?” “Where is the dining-room?
and the like. There is not one word about
bullets, cannons, gunpowder, wounds, broken
legs, sudden death, camps, tents, enemy,
atrocity, or anything even distantly related
to the blastiferousness of war. Evidently
the compiler thinks Billjim is off on a Cook s
excursion.
* * * *
A divorce case slowly dragging along in
Adelaide produced one interesting touch.
Some spying, offered as evidence, had been
done through a hole bored in a skirting-
board, and the suggestion was made that
nothing really valuable could be seen that
way. A length of board (including the
hole) was therefore sawn off and taken to
court and stood on the floor, and the jury-
men in turn solemnly prostrated themselves
to take a little gimlet-brigade practice,
counsel’s gown being courteously offered to
keep them out of the dust. It was in
accordance with French legal custom; still
one felt that in Paris the alleged Crime
itself would have been “reconstructed” in
court, as well as the manner of detecting it.
* * -.i *
“Jeames’s” dress item :
A few years ago the “swell - ’ or “masher” belonged
to the “leisured” and clerical classes. He was
despised by the unaffected son of toil as a fop and
a conceited fool. Ilis colored waistcoats and gaudy
ties were jeered at. His ornate hats and boots and
collars were the subjects of mirth. When he was
unusually flamboyant he stood a fair chance of
being stoned. Time has changed all that. The
more affluent the modern youth is the more unob-
trusively he dresses, as a general thing; and the
clerk has followed, partly because he could not afford
to do otherwise. Low collars ; drab-colored -ties- and
clothes; hats, shoes and socks which are neitlwr one
thing nor the other —by these you may identify the
young man whose predecessor used to be scornfully
referred to as “an ass looking over a paling fence” —
the latter being the vast collar which was then in
fashion. The rococo costume is now the mark of a
curious type of working-man. I sat oppos.te one
last Sunday. He wore a purple hat of some furry
substance. His clothes were yellowish. In his
buttonhole was an imitation flower, attached by a
contrivance on the end of which was a large silver
fern. One of the biggest and reddest ties 1 have
ever seen stretched from his collar to the region of
his waist. In- the centre of the tie was a blue
butterfly. The waistcoat had half a dozen little
buttons, all very close together; and the coat
another half dozen, similarly placed. 1 hadn’t time
to note the rest of him, as he quitted the tram when
my inventory had got this far, leaving behind him
a sensation as though an arc-lamp had been extin-
guished. He was nothing exceptional. Others wear
straw hats, with no rims to speak of, or with
gigantic rims, surrounded by velvet bands. Also
tremendous collars, strangely shaped, and boots with
THE ANSWER
MISS GUSH: “Do you think I
can ever do anything with
my voice, Professor?”
PROFESSOR (cautiously): "Well, it may come
in handy in case of fired."
purposeless knobs on the toes, like polished boulders.
This strange variety of working man runs more and
more to ponderous watch-chains bearing medals, and
to rings, pins and jewellery generally—ornaments
which have been abandoned by most males, barring
always bookmakers. If things go on as they are
doing, I expect before long to find the “swell” brand
of rock-chopper wearing a bangle during business
hours.
REVEL-TIDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sparkling Beer! A crowded bar,
Festive mirth and lusty cheer —-
Men who flock from near and far
New Year’s Eve for New Year’s beer.
Barman! pump the Nectar brown,
Send the hop juice through the town,
Beverage for king or clown !
Pump it, and we’ll drink it down!
Gleaming Wine! The goblet red,
Hold it to the mellow light.
Bacchus has been counted dead —-
We all have him king to-night.
Hands a-clasp and eyes a-shine,'
Juice of grape is joy divine.
Drink it, countrymen of mine—
All the gods were fond of wine!
Usquebaugh ! A whisky, Nell!
Soft and mellow let it be.
Irish. That a priest may tell
On its beads his Rosary.
At the Front, or on the tramp
Bacchus has his court and camp ;
IV hi sky feeds the midnight lamp,
Aids the saint and stays the scamp.
L’Envoi.
Let the Bacchanalian be,
Lords of Church and Lords of State,
We are happier far than ye;
Leave us, unregenerate!
N.S.W.
BLACKBOY.


THE SOWER.
MA STATE (as she miserably watches her youngest son at his latest venture): “It doesn’t look right, an’ I’ve TOLD him so! But p’raps farming IS his best line, after all. It ain’t architecture, for he never managed to build the house on
the sand; and it ain’t poultry farming, because he never caught the wild goose that laid the golden eggs. But he certainly growed them wild oats of his, an’ no one carn’t say that he didn’t!”


Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
fg
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
d
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SORUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
rer
w
3 fiji
TOP
NOTCH
/ '&gP’ £toiyc TV
fsCQtdf~Wlps
ftiL W
•SddT* s '
3”
THE "TOP NOTCH" SCOTCH.
“KING GEORGE IV.”
WHISKY.
A UNIFORM STANDARD of QUALITY.
ABORIGIN
ALITINS
“Lagani-Namo” : Many marriages between
white folk prove disastrous simply because the con-
tracting parties do not know beforehand each other's
eccentricities. To obviate this the natives of Santa
Cruz send a youth’s fiancee to reside with and serve
an apprenticeship under her prospective mother-in-
laW. During this period the maiden is taught how
to cook to her lover’s satisfaction, and is informed
of his various likes and dislikes. Meanwhile, the
’groom-elect and his mates are busy constructing the
home. Should the young lady display any bad traits
the boy who proposes taking her “for better or
worse” is informed, and, if it looks a hopeless case,
his party cries the engagement off. Then, again,
from the first announcement of an engagement the
mother of the bride-elect must not be seen by her
daughter’s man, nor is she permitted to discuss him
or anything which is his. This wise embargo re-
mains in force after marriage, too. How much
happiness has been missed by us through overlooking
that simple regulation!
* * * *
“Outcast”: Amongst most of tin 1 moun-
tain tribes of Papua a spoonful of salt will buy
enough food to feed 20 men for a meal. In fact, I
have found some villages where a pinch of salt, like
a strip of calico, is well worth committing murder
for. Salt is unobtainable except by way of trade
with the rare European visitors, and a substitute is
procured by burning the woods of certain trees and
using the residue, lye or potash. On the upper
Kumusi the manufacture of it is quite an extensive
business. Some of the mountaineers who do not live
very far from the coast make periodical trips to tidal
creeks to cut Nipa roots, and boil the salt out from
the fibres. On rare occasions when real mountaineers
have come down to the sea I have seen them gorging
themselves with saltwater and taking bamboo bottles
of it- horiie with them.
From the upper deck of the ferry steamer:
When the fat string band had ceased playing the
very fat man who played the violin lumbered along
the decks with the collecting box. He grunted when
anybody dropped a penny in, and cursed under his
breath when they didn't. In the free-spending days
before the war he used to make a sort of leisurely
royal progress round the deck, smiling and bowing
while the small change rattled its applause. But
times had changed, and now he sort of bowled him-
self along the deck, mumbling his grudging thanks
when he would rather have thrown the box over-
board.
He. arrived opposite a spectacled man who wore
an air of glassy but unbreakable calm, and rattled
the box under his nose. The passenger looked up
languidly and examined the brigand in the yachting
cap.
“What patriotic fund are you collecting for?”
“1 his isn’t a fund, sir. It’s the band!”
“What band? I haven’t heard any music.”
“We were playing down the other end, sir. You
must have heard us!”
“No, I didn’t hear you. How do I know you were
playing anything?”
“Well, there's me fiddle!”
“Oh, very well—l’ll take your word for it. But
you can t expect me to pay for music I didn’t hear,
can you?”
“We’ll be playing up ’ere in a minit. Will that
satisfy yer?”
“I don’t know that it will. I’m not musical
and why are you playing? Have you got a holi-
day from work?”
“Holiday! I work at this.”
“What! Don’t you do anv work at all?”
“I tell yer I work at this!” rattling the collec-
tion box and flourishing the fiddle.
“And you look a strong- man, too!”
“Some of th’ blighters that travel up an’ down
ere seem ter think a bloke orter do it f'r nothin’!
If they ever do give yer anythin’ it’s a penny !”
“Well,” sighed the passenger, “I suppose they have
to work for their money.” (He stressed “work” a
little heavily.)
“Gor’strooth ! Don’t we ’ave ter work f’r ours?”
“I suppose you do—if you insist on calling it
work. Those two men who are with you now—do
they play all day, too?”
“Yes!”
“Um ! They look pretty fat on it! Easy life;
plenty of fresh air and change and”
“It ain’t too dam’ easy, you take it from me!
Plenty o' times I’d rather be doin’ ’ard work!”
“Why don’t you?”
“W’v don’t I what?”
“Get work.”
With a despairing gesture the bandsman shook
his box under his opponent’s nose. “Well, wot erbout
it ?’’
The smileless passenger produced a florin and
dropped it in the slot.
“You’re a sport!” exclaimed the musician in a
burst of enthusiasm. “I earned that be ’ard work,
any’ow!” he said confidentially as he moved along.
❖ * * *
“Lagani-Namo”: At tlie village of Savo,
in the Solomons, there is a patch of sand where,
generation after generation, the scrub turkeys bury
their eggs. The fowl is something like a game
rooster in weight and shape, but it produces a
whacking pinky-brown egg, larger, if anything, than
a goose’s. The birds are protected by strict taboo.
The laying field is marked out into allotments, whose
owners are entitled to all shell-fruit deposited within
their boundaries. Trading schooners used to make
Savo a port of call, simply to ship a few casks of
eggs for their eommisariat. The natives break the
eggs into a receptacle with a little sea water and
much-sliredded cocoanut, and boil the mixture until
it thickens into a sort of yellow dough. An ordin-
ary Solomons youth will negotiate about a dipperful
at a meal. An extraordinary youth might double
the allowance between one meal and another.
WILHELM SCHNEIDER : “ Pleass, suh me mother ses if yer belts me she's goin’ ter com-
plain yer leltin out yer British spite on us.”
SAMMY JONES : “ Please , sir, me ole man reckons if yer don’t bell im yer must be pro-
German. ”
MRS. PUBLICHOUSE : “ Why don’t you chop the wood, Bill y ?"
BILLY: "What yer mean? There's only one axe."
“Moana” : The most staggered man in the
world was found in Gisborne (M.L.) the other day.
Together with a mate (name o’ Bill) he had dis-
appeared into the bush towards the end of June, and
had seen nobody but William till be returned to
town for tucker supplies. Thenabouts the whole
population fell on him and attempted to dose him
with four months’ war news. He reckoned that
the whole —— outfit was several shingles short,
and he. wasn’t convinced until he was shown the
newspapers. When he was last seen he was gallop-
ing for the woods to tell his unsuspecting pal Bill
that the bottom had fallen out, and that everything
was blanky.
“The Emu”: Kangaroos have been seen
lately at Coraki, on the Richmond (N.S.W.), right
in the middle of the cow country. This is the first
time they have been sighted there since Strawberry
took charge of the paspalum. Rabbits are also
working towards the North Coast, and between Ten-
terfield and Casino they are to be seen in hundreds.
Can any Abo.-professor state whether the immigrants
will return home again when the back-country
drought is busted,' or will they just stick around
until they are shot off or die of old age?
* * * *
Dear Bulletin,—l see that a corres-
pondent rises in your paper io deny or allege (I
forget which) that there has been (or hasn't been)
any diminution in the flow from the Cooma (N.S.W.)
mineral spring. Vet the diminution is obvious. It
was apparently caused by the sinking of numerous
wells in the locality. The first man who proved,
by calculations ;ft<l measurements, that the spring
had faded was Peter Smith, the person who married
Mary Johnson, widow of” John Johnson, who owned
the brown cow that trod on Wilson’s twins by his
first wife. Smith hired Briggs, who W'as son-in-
law to Jobson, the man whose horse won the Bom-
bala Handicap but was disqualified for trampling on
a bookmaker (Jobson was for a while a carpenter
at Bibbenluke, but afterwards he went whaling at
Lden) to sink a well. It was the nearest well to
the Cooma spring, as was proved by measurements
made with a spirit level by McDougal. (He was
drunk at the time.) When the well was down 100 ft.
Briggs abandoned his contract, and went to
Westralia, where he was charged with bigamy, but
got out on i- DO bail supplied by Plornish, who
had to pay, and Briggs hasn’t been seen since. A
local legend has it that he joined the French army
under the name of Joffre. Anyhow, Thomas Burton
sank the well to 200 ft., and when he struck water
the supply from the Cooma mineral spring percep-
tibly diminished. After that more wells were sunk
bv Higgs, O’Brien, Macduff, Moses and other adjacent
settlers, including Grubb, and every time they struck
water the flow from the mineral spring was weaker.
This became so noticeable that Mactaggart gjrew
quite abusive to Benjamin Aarons when Aarons
proposed to sink a well, and Aarons telephoned for
the police, whose name was Ferguson, but as the
girl that Ferguson was engaged to had a sister who
was engaged to Mactaggart, while Aarons was
engaged to a girl who had jilted the policeman at
Bobundera, the agricultural .Jew got no satisfac-
tion. All this time the flow from the Cooma spring
was growing more attenuated, and the night when
McPherson fell into it on his way home from the
wedding of Chubb to Hephzibah Jamieson he hardly
even got wet. Since then there has been no improve-
ment, except that Hephzibah is the mother of twins,
and Chubb has put up a new fence. It was Chubb’s
brother who wrote the beautiful poem which
appeared in the local paper on 17th January last.
The poem was really stolen from Byron, but Chubb’s
brother put his name to it. I hope that I have made
myself quite clear.—Yours, etc., Bill Sheep.
THE MIRACLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Excitement reigned at Piker’s pub. Even old Piker
gazed . ■ ,
Across the bar like one who was amazingly amazed.
Yes, Piker who had seen the worst that any man
might see —
And viewed it with an absence of excitability.
Aye, Piker who had heard the blood give forth its
gurgling noise
From someone’s throat, and yet retained his mental
equipose.
Even old Mulga Mick stared out with wonder in his
eyes—
Two red-rimmed - orbs that long had lost all vestige
of surprise.
Yes, ancient Mulga looked amazed —that Mulga who
had seen
The sorts of snakes that never were, and never could
have been.
That Noah who had trudged the tracks, and trudged
them o’er and o’er,
And saw the things, and heard the things, no man
had known before.
And Jack McClusky said “By God!” and that was
all he said
What time he pressed a weary hand across his
aching head.
Astonishment had stilled his tongue. And Jack had
seen the things
That only vast experience out West o’ Sunset brings.
Those things he’d seen, and seen again, and won-
dered not, I vow —•
But great amazement plainly held possession of him
now.
The Scarlet Girl looked out i a fear, and on her
. painted lips
The honeyed laughter died away. She flung no
mocking quips.
Yes, she, the Scarlet Girl, I swear, was too sur-
prised to say
The usual things (and, God forgive.!—what scarlet
things were they !).
Aye,, she, the joyous witch, who’d seen the moths
around the flame ;
And when they’d burnt their feeble wings had held
the moths to blame!
Even the Golden Girl had ceased to pound the deep-
worn keys;
And it was plain, and more than plain, that she was
ill at ease.
Yes, she, likewise was stricken dumb; a-down the
long, white road
She stared as one whose steely heart was breaking
’neath its loach
The Golden Girl, who’d seen souls in procession
down to Hell,
Became transfixed as though beneath some weird
and wondrous spell.
A stillness overwhelmed the place. The bottles on
the shelves
Suddenly seemed to look unlike their customary
selves.
Even the dog beneath the stool looked up with
sleepy eyes;
The very stool itself appeared to tremble with
surprise.
What consummated miracle! You well might
question why !. ...
Jamboree Joe had ridden by—yes, he had ridden
by!
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE —
1 4 MARTIN PLACE,' SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH-
-360=6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH-
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
rgd
Insure in the
1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed. 165,000
Paid-up 82,500
Branches in every State.
Agents wanted. AVrite for particulars.
AV. R. CA\ T E, General Manager.
BRISBANE'S LEADING HOTEL
The Gresham
in under new management and lias
been made right up to date, having all
tjlie most modern improvements.
The Sewerage System has been in-
stalled on an elaborate scale, which
overcomes Brisbane’s greatest menace.
Proprietor,
T. M. AHERN.
cLoamo
tirtmnq and Sneuwq ouitp im/xua/H*
'4s'
anATtuRS
This" SAFETY"
Emasculator
does away with all
risk of bleeding'.
Postage Free ~— 45/-
My "Hints on Castrating"
enable any man used to stock
to cut with the “Safety”
either Colts, Bulls, Rams, or
Boars.
Other patterns of 33. toso
Emaseulators from*
Zoeller’s “Handy”
Castrating Knife, 3/6
is a lovely bit of Steel.
Carl Zoeller,
246 Queen St.,
BRISBANE, Q.
Send for complete
Veterinary Catalog.
It's FREE
“John IV’: Absinthe, which has been
vetoed in France, like vodka in Russia, for as long
as the war lasts is one of the bad habits brought home
by soldiers from Northern Africa. It is the one drink
that is seldom referred to in France by its right
name. In fact, no kind of liquor on this planet
lias such a wide range of slang equivalents. The
Parisian absinthe drinker usually talks of “taking
a blue, - ’ “killing- a worm,” or “strangling a parrot.”
The last phrase is in most common use, chiefly
between the hours of It and six, when the moderate
drinker sips his absinthe. If .you see- a man taking
it at any other time you can generally bet the drug
has got him by the hair.
* * * #
“Yarrum”: I’m convinced that navvying
is degenerating into a pastime for gentlemen.
Gangers are becoming models of politeness, and
appeal to blokes to “please” do this or “kindly” do
the other. One ganger so far forgot himself recently
that he cursed at some of his men in the good old
way. Unknown to the ganger, one of the navvies
happened to be a Judge on holiday, and that night
his nibs sat down and wrote a letter to the Govern-
ment complaining- bitterly of the ganger’s slang, and
asking that he be disrated, or hanged, or removed, or
something. The ganger, getting wind of what was
happening, called upon the admiral, and apologised
humbly, promising not to do it again if the general
would only let the matter drop. The horse-marine was
adamant, and said the breach of modern navy etiquette
was inexcusable, and that the matter simply must
be reported. Then about 150 timekeepers, a dozen or
so official storekeepers and 11 other gangers per-
suaded the bandmaster to stay his baton. The ganger
is still on the job, but he’s the most polite ganger I
know.
* * *
“Hard Luck”: I never saw anything
remarkable in that reputedly.-busy insect, the ant,
until a few days ago. I was sitting on my veraiidah
when I observed two red ants passing me in single
file. The front chap was apparently a prisoner and
was moving slowly along. Every three inches or
so he would stop, whereon the soldier in charge
would sail in and kick the dust out of him. Then
the prisoner would reluctantly go forward again. This
continued for about 10 yards, when they disappeared
over the edge of the verandah. Judging by the very
reluctant way the front chap went, he was a spy
going out to be shot. #
* * * *
“Shock der Kaiser” : One of my comfort-
ing recollections in these unfriendly days is the way
my brother-in-law Octavius used to shock our flabby
old neighbor, Von Blusterwurst. Blusterwurst was a
pathetic fat man with an enormous appetite and a
failing for bursting into tears in any crisis. He
loved the Fatherland and liver sausage, and when lie
spoke of things to eat and drink- his voice used to
tremble. He had a splendidly aggressive stomach
but no nerve; and in times of stress, (he was extra-
vagant and often experienced times of stress) his
tremendous moustache (it used to drip with soup
like the spray pipe of a watering-cart) was of no
assistance to him. Once he so maddened me that I
wanted to hit him. But seeing- the light of frenzy
in my eye he fell into a heap and melted, and
became a sort of fainting octopus; so, instead of
assaulting him I was forced to drag- him to an up-
right position and stand him carefully on his ten-
tacles. (This is all very disconnected, but I am
trying to give you an idea of what Von Bluster-
wurst was like.) The old jellyfish used to annoy me
because, whenever lie got half a chance, he would
run down the British and all their works, and bluster
and brag about the marvellous Germans. We mostly
used to listen with grim amusement until Bluster-
wurst started on the English language. This would
let Octavius loose. After quoting one or two of
those tremendous portmanteau words the Germans
are so fond of, “God! what a language!” the British
patriot would exclaim. “Every d—d thing has to be
branded and ticketed with a word as long as a
sausage with two grunts in it. How can the brutes
pretend to be civilised when they go round making-
noises like that at one another! No wonder Von
Blusterwurst’s got a stomach like a balloon! He
doesn’t only eat with it —he talks with it!” Bluster-
wurst used to retire in tearful disorder before
such attacks, and to my certain knowledge he never
once offered Octavius a slice of liver sausage. Liver
sausage was Von Blusterwurst’s iron cross.
G. E. F. Allen, curator of the Botanic
Gardens, Darwin, is a strong- believer in the tobacco-
growing possibilities of the Northern Territory.
Climate, rail.fall and heat, he says, are highly satis-
factory ; the only necessity is the selection of the
best soils. Recently, he wrote, that he had more
faith in tobacco crops paying in the Territory, in
existing conditions, than any other field crop he
knew.
HIS PLEASURE MARRED .
COHEN : “ Vat makes you look so sad , Moses?"
MOSES: " Vy, I gan’t help visiting I had some insurance on dis cigar! "
“A. Corn”: The feeding of the Indian
troops in France provided the British authorities
with a tough problem. Like the Australian cocky
the Hindu considers the cow sacred, while the
Mohammedan taboos the pig. Spain, Corsica and
Italy refused to hand over a single goat to meet
the emergency. A muster in the Alps yielded the
required number; but why wasn’t Australia thought
of ? Every town in Western Queensland could spare
5000 or more without feeling the pinch, and as Lhe
Indian is reputed to prefer strong goat, an oppor-
tunity is presented of passing on a few old-timers
that have out-lived their usefulness at local sports
gatherings. If a shipment of William Cl. will help
along the good cause, let's get a move on. Let’s
get a move on, anyhow.
* * * *
“Billy T.": There was marked impetu-
osity in the way- Blair moved towards Castles, and
in Castles's approach to Blair. “I say, Jim,” said
Blair, “could .you lend” But Castles was talking,
too. “I say, Tom, could you let me have”—— They
stopped simultaneously, and looked sadly into each
other’s eyes. There was an awkward pause. “S’long,
Jim.” “S’long, Tom.” The pair passed. They did
not meet again for three days. Then Castles came
upon Blair desolately dipping for blackfish in Pickle
Creek. Castles looked on for about five minutes in
an aching calm. Then said he: “I s’pose ’tain’t none
o’ my business, Tom, but didja get the money you
was after the other day?” “Yaas,” replied Blair.
“Did you?” “Yaas, after a lot iv trouble.” Fur-
ther silence, in which Blair nearly got a bite and
Castles picked a yard of bark to pieces. “Yeh see,”
said Castles, “I wanted 15 quid very pertiekler.
Fer that little Dwyer girl what was in the bar at
the pub at Big Bridge.” “Go orn! Yeh don’t say?”
“Yaas. A feller couldn’t turn her down. She was
goin’ away, ’n’ she said I’d rooned her life.” “Go
orn!” More fishing, more silence. Blair was leaning
back against a tree. His fishing was very listless.
“It’s bin a fine spell iv weather,” he said. “More or
less,” said Castles. More silence. “It was 20 quid
I wanted,” said Blair. “I borrered it frim seven
people. It took me a day ’n’ a half t’ do it.” “Go
orn?” “Yes.” Increased silence, eventually broken
by Blair. “I wanted it fer Nellie Dwyer, too. I gave
it to her afore "she went.” “Go orn!” “Yes. She
said I’d rooned her life!” Intense silence, lasting
ever since.
“Don Q.”: T-Ae discussion which raged in
the Abo. columns some time back concerning the
relative values of barbed and plain fence wires
is recalled by the decision of the State Forest
Department of the U.S.A. to definitely abandon
barbed fences in favor of the plain article. It looks
as if the porcupine fence will in time be relegated
to its true sphere—military defence purposes.
THE SAME SYMPTOMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A complaint is to hand from Wyalong aiiout 20
young turkeys, reared till six weeks old, and appar-
ently healthy, all dying within 24 hours. They
all at once; refused to take food ; sought
to be alone, sitting with their eyes closed.
—Country news item,
I knew a young maiden whose dream of love __
Had bubbled and burst in the usual way;
She turned her blue eyes to the skies above
And never again would be bright and gay;
And she kept it up for a year, they say,
Till all her relations were sorely tried.
But though from her meals she would often stay,.
She swallowed some food, so she never died.
Now, I had some turkeys I greatly' prized ;
But one day they' drooped and refused their food ;
1 looked at them fading, and I surmised
That love was the cause of their wretched mood.
Now, here is the thing that you ought to know —
The turkeys all perished of their attack,
But the lovesick maiden wed long ago,
And now has nine kids and a round, fat back.
Did the turkeys and girl have a diff’rent complaint?
Or are turkeys faithful while women ain’t?
N.S.W.
THE POULTRY-FARMER.
The Heroism of Mrs. Quinn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ B ’V IDJA hear maybe iv the gallant V
I 9 curious takin’ iv Dan Lowe?” said
Flynn. “IVfoud I’ll be t’ intherjuce
yeh t’ the fine woman did it, ’n’ her
wid an inschribed goold watch fer it, ’n’ the
fame iv her shpread to Melbourne away ’n’
the wide wor-rld beyond. The good money
Misthress Quinn tuck fer the sarvice rendered
her grateful counthry is in a fine far-rm this
day, 'n' cows ’n’ pigs, mind yeh, would be
wan hour countin'.
“Mishtress Mary Bridgid Quinn have a
fritterin’ ginger husband, warn ye’d not notice
at all be reason iv his sedentliray habits ’n’
the color iv him, the like iv a man. would
sloe)) away under shtones ’n’ hibernate a
month in damp, dar-rk corners. Timmy
Quinn have the whisky sickness in a dang’-
rous for-rm, ’n’ can he lay hands on a thrifle
iv money will go away a week. V come home
in the dead iv night, fearful ’n’ furtive, wid
a whole host iv shtrange ’u’ curyis immortals
on his track, ’n’ he’ll whistle thim in the
house ’n’ sit on the flure, talkin’ pitiful in
whispers.
"Alary Bridgid Quinn is a middlin’ tall
woman, iv mild manners wouldn’t say ‘booh’
to a duck, wid a suspicion iv superstition
concarnin’ banshees ’n’ imps come frim her
father’s people, them bein’ bred in the hills
west iv Cork, gr-reat an’ wonderful land fer
fairies, I’m told. ’Twould be natural a
woman iv the sor-rt would take cold to her
bones seein’ her wild man sittin’ white on
the flure, whisperin’ ’n’ pleadin’ wid seven
’n’ twinty devils, ’n’ them answerin’ so low
’n’ mysteryis altogether ’twould take the
sharp ear iv a faithful, fearful woman t’
hear them.
“Ye’ll not dishpute ’tis widin the lagil V
hon’rable rights iv a wife t’ take sthrong mea-
sures fer her own protection ’n’ the safety iv
her house dealin’ wid the like, ’n’ Mishtress
Quinn in jue time is adoptin’ stringent
courses wid Timmy t’ put him ’n’ his evil
associates—which the latest is invisible—
away from her where they’ll never dishturb
her peace at all nor break her shleep nayther.
“This is eighteen liundthred ’n’ eighty-wan
Annie Domino, remember, when Dan Lowe
is playin' the Devil wid the mounted po-lice,
’n’ dodgin’ the thribe of thim most sooper-
eilions n’ ins'lent, dishpite his dthrinkin’
habits. Dan has lifted a flock iv 50 head iv
fat bullocks frim Carne’s, ’n’ shot the arum
off Carne’s own son Jimmy, is thryin’ t’ take
him did or alive, ’n’ the counthry’s wild n
trimblin’ account iv his darin’. Ye’ll re-
member the Guv’mint gives two hundtherd
’n' fifty fer the arrest iv Lowe, ’n’ Carne
(Hard Cash Carne was the same) wid the
hot anger to his blood threatens himself wid
rooin’, t’rowin’ in wan hundthred ’n’ fifty
more t’ shtimulate the officers iv the law t’
pursue ’n’ take the body of the said Danyili
Lowe, him bein' an onmitigate bla’guard ’n’
a sore danger t’ the aise ’n’ comfor-rt iv her
Mejesty’s lyle subjects, mind yeh.
“Wan night whin Timmy Quinn have bin
abroad siven ’r nine days, wid five pound
in his pocket tuck frim his wife’s sacret
hidin’ place in the chubular bidstid, Mary
Bridgid Quinn is awoke suddint be the
shtumblin’ iv a human for-rm agin the fur-
rniture. Mary is well acquaint wid the
divilopments. ’Tis Timmy home agin, dthrunk
past all dthrinkin’, ’n’ surround’ wid his
biood iv imps. Misthress Quinn kin see
the white face iv him, like a chunk iv punk
lit wid phosph’ris, shinin’ in the night, ’n’
she takes her usual coorse iv action. ’Tis
a clever thrick perfected wid practice. Mary
Bridgid rises from her bed, dives fer Timmy
wid mar-rked impetuosity ’n’ all her weight
behind her. Takin’ him deftly be the two
ears iv him on the run, she bears his head
agin the wall wid a crack would shake a
church. Be this time Timmy Quinn is ren-
dered limp ’n’ imcompetint, ’n’ his good
wife takes him sprawlin’ along the flu re be
the leg t’ the front room was onst the bar-r
iv the Old Soldiers’ Inn lost its license fer
illishit thradin’ five years gone, opens the
cellar dure, ’n’ shlides Timmy down the
shteps t’ the sthraw below, wid nothin’ iv
ceremony ’r regar-rd fer his limbs, ’n’ ‘Lie
there!’ sez she, ‘.veil wicked dthrinker ’n’
evil breeder iv godless thinks ’n’ imps ’n’
fiends,’ she sez, ‘ ’n’ lave a poor body t’ rest
her bones ’n’ her fearin’ soul in her clane
bed,’ sez she. ’n’ twice she crosses herself
fer safety agin the familyer devils iv Tim
Quinn.
“Misthress Mary Quinn goes back to her
shleep, V ’tis daylight ’n’ no more whin
comes a great roarin’ at her dure, ’u’ out
the windy she sees po-lice shtaudin’ wid
their arrums. In the front room was onst
the bar-r is four more wid officer Tom Cody
in full conthrol. ’n’ sez he: ‘Top iv the
mornin’ to you ma’am, ’n’ will yeh tell us
what yev done wid Dan Lowe while there’s
goal time?’ sez he.
“‘Dan Lowe?’ sez she. ‘’N’ what would
a dacent woman be doin’ wid Dan Lowe
this time iv the day, tell me?’
“ ‘Ye’ll please, ma’am, not to prevar-
ricate.’ sez officer Tom Cody, he sez. ‘beeaze
Lowe is here, ’n’ here we’ll have him.’
“ ‘Thin have him. fer God sake!’ sez Mrs.
Quinn, ‘fer nothin’ I know of him.’
“ “Twill be bether fer yeh not t’ He t’ the
Law ’n’ its high officers,’ sez Cody, ‘seein’
we find Lowe’s horse tied be yer fence, ’n’
Lowe’s own hat lyin’ be yer own dure step.
Well we know. too. lie was dthrinkin’ har-rd
at O’Brien’s this night gone. Where is it
yiv hid him?’
“ ‘His horse t’ me fence? His hat t’ me
shtep?’ sez Misthress Quinn, wild wid won-
der; ’ii' et that very* moment comes Timmy
Quinn t’ the open dure, propelled wid a big
conshtable, ’n’ him limp wid dthrink ’n’
white wid wickedness hangs to the posht.
’n’ blinks et the po-lice. seein’ nothin’ of
them, ’n’ talkin’ stuff that’s no eonsarn iv
theirs, nor iv anny good Christyin fer the
matlier iv that.
“Mary is shtarin’ at Timmy Quinn a
long shnell, then sez she, talkin’ wid officer
Cody: ‘There’s money to the head iv Lowe,
I’m thinkin’.’
“ ‘There is. ma'am.’ Cody admits.
“ ‘Big money, they’re tellin’ me.’
“‘A thrifle iv five hundthred pounds,
ma'am.’
“ ‘And honestly I’ll be done by fer the
takin’ of him?’
“ ‘Honestly will yeh be done by, Misthress
Quinn, on me honor ez an offieer-r ’n’ a
gintleman.’
“ ‘Thin I'll have yeh know I've tuck Dan
Lowe wid me own hands this night, ’n’ he's
safely held in the cellar below.’
“’N’ thrue enough they kim on Dan
Lowe shleepin’ the slitrong drink out iv
him on the shtraw below, ’n’ Misthress
Quinn tuck the foive hundthred ’n’ great
credit the wor-rld over for her mar-vellous
courage ’n’ heroic doiu’s. ’n’ never a wan
dthreamed what I knew well, that fer a
year afther she quaked wid terror at the
thought of the terrible deed she’d done,
takin’ a desprit crool man like Danyil Lowe
would shoot the eye out yer head wid a
shmile, thinkin’ all the time ’twas nothin’
but her shmall, sick husband trown on the
cellar flure.”
EDDYSON.


/A,
o\
A somewhat unusual request was
made to the council of the Working
Men's College last night by Miss Ethel
•Johnston. She asked if Women were
allowed to enter the printing classes.
—“Argus."
The Prime Minister moved the second
reading of the Estate Duty Bill. The
Bill, he said, provided for a payment of
a duty of £1 per £IOOO on estates whose
total value exceeded £IOOO. On estates
exceeding £2OOO an extra duty was ini.
posed of 4s. In the £ for every additional
£IOOO, up to a maximum duty of £l3
per cent. —Parliamentary Report.
tairw ? ‘
\ new *nd She WnVseen
ttre formes ye* ’
%
l?evaj\nt£,
- J
SWK '
His Wife -
rCC "
liteK'jd :- WHad'
V red SKy !"
Billie feMy^ r , sJi
•be WorKm' ««•
Ke\ & Gerww» spy ~e **■
The State Parliamentary session
should not be allowed to end without a
direction from members to the Ministry
that a special independent Board should
be appointed to investigate the condi-
tions under which the unfortunate wards
of the State are brought up. The in-
quiry should have particular reference
to the training-ship John Murray.
—“Age. /
you t&n run me
lioVif om sie whole shits- only
Kccb it* off-tire actTne Wheel...
Hemijjif l?e Someone we tftfov/.
>VV oV e^ 6< '
ov * *"V>
v<cH v
<£s**
\° ■
•p
[ovrl‘ .
v VteW
IS
IP c,_f We WSvWf &”7
rioo-flour is wj?
Q*h on-V0«?"ie^»
’ if/ /' (,// . A
f
' Foot'pt'inlV or » .
°\ T,rr i«*
VICTORIA AND ELSEWHERE.


boater;
ess)
m
m
1 W
1/ V*
1 41
Your Hat
Should be correct as to Style, Shape, Weight
and Price. WOODROWS’ HATS fill the
bill and meet all requirements.
When you ask for a WOODROW HAT
there is a sense of satisfaction in knowing
that you are buying an article which repre-
sents full value, and maintains its wearing
qualities to the end.
YOUR Hatter Stocks WOODROWS’.
NABOB BOOT PASTE.
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS A WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney. n
EVERY DAY
more people are proving that
K.UX
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, 'woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the cjjrt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes.
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SVONEV.
r
m
, / w'l
PERSONAL
ITEMS
January birthdays: Ist, Owen Smyth, the
don’t-care-a-damn official who runs the S.
Aus. Works Department, 63; 2nd, David
Watterston, formerly editor of Melbourne
Argus, 63 ; 4th. K. W. Cole, the old King of
the Book Arcades, S 3; sth. F. W. Young, S.
Australia’s new Agent-General, 39; 6tli,
Arthur Searcy, chairman of S. Aus. Har-
bin- Commissioners, 63; 15th, Premier Peake
(S.A.), 55; 17th, Dr. Wollaston, ex-Comp-
troller-General of Customs, 69; 18th, Justice
"Toby” Barton, 65; 22nd, T. Prout Webb.
K.C.. Melbourne’s Taxation Commissioner,
63; 24th, Fthel Turner, 43 (but doesn’t look
half the age) : 26th. ex-Premier Wade
(N.S.M .), .>2 : 28th, Bishop Stretch, of New-
castle. 60; 29th. Justice Bring (N.S.W.),
62; 30th, B. Stafford Bird, Tasmania’s
ancient politician, 75.
NARPER, Chief Commissioner of N.S.W.
Railways.
According to the United States press the
Kaiser is a despairing person these days, and
is much angered at the men who, he reckons,
fooled him into the war. “My diplomats are
wasters and lubbers; the British knock
spots out of them,” he is said to have
howled from the bottom of the pit of misery.
But does the Kaiser talk the Yankee lan-
guage? “Lubbers” and “spots” don’t sound
like the turgid eloquence of Bill Potsdam.
The Emperor Frederick (of Germany ">
died of cancer in the larynx. The Empress
Frederick perished of cancer in the uterus
and kidneys. The old Empress Augusta
(wife of William I.) died of cancer in the
stomach. Berlin surgeons are talking just
now of operating on William the Blood-
stained. Where is William’s cancer?
When young barrister Bevan went from
Melbourne to the Northern Territory as
Judge lie thought hard over the question of
millinery, and decided that, in view of the
prevalence of Ah Sin and Binghi, he had
better wear a wig, anyhow. So the foolish
old horsehair is still seen on the bench of
the Territory where you are supposed to
want to take off your flesh and your bones
and loaf on an ice-cream dressed in
your naked soul. At odd times Judg_
Bevan requires practitioners at the table
to put on their millinery, but almost any old
excuse is good enough for dispensing with it.
. 11 ? e Snow case”—in which F. H. Snow
is charged with having tried to keep up
metal-selling relations with Hamburg—is
likely to be a record good thing for S Aus-
tra ban lawyers. Adelaide Police Court
(which can do nothing but send the case
on to a higher court for hearing) spent
three long days reading seized letters, and
then got tired and said casuallv that it
would adjourn till Jan. 12 “or some
approximate date.” There are six lawyers
engaged, including three K.C.’s. Josiah
Symon leads the defence, and Cleland (who
was his partner till the other day) the
prosecution. The severance is recalled by
one passage. ’ Symon: “I take no notice
ot these remarks of yours because they are
utterly unworthy!” Cleland (mildly):
“Anything that is in opposition to you
always is.”
THE POET, OR WHY EDITORS
DIE YOUNG.
Apropos the Marsden Centenary Celebra-
tion in Maoriland at Christmas time, it is
on record that a ticket-of-leaver, being
rounded up by Father Therry at Goulburn
(N.S.AY.), said: “Mister. I’m not going to
church again, if I can dodge it. You see,
when 1 was in the iron-gang down the coun-
try, I had a bellyful of it. Old Sam Mars-
den [that’s the Rev. Samuel] used to preach
at us on Sundays, and on Mondays we’d get
50 lashes for sneezing or coughing while he
was talking.”
John Ford, dead in Adelaide at S 4, was
ail old citizen of whose tremendous strength
in his farming days the country used to tell
weird tales when it came down for the
show. At (50 (under provocation so gross
that a small fine was judged to meet the
case) lie struck a man. “I wouldn’t close
my fist to him,” lie told the Court. “I just
reached over and rapped him on the side of
the head with my open hand.” But the
man had concussion of the brain, for all
that.
Among the vice-regal party at the last
Melbourne Cup Sir Henry Galway (S.A.)
was the only Governor who “backed his
fancy.” The others, he admits, knew
better than lie did. They held off for the
totalisator.
From the Gallery :
Among the slain at the Maoriland polls were
some well-known figures: Fisher, the Minister for
Customs, passed out by a 2000 majority at Welling-
ton Central; G. M. Thomson, a pompous person
who represented Fat and sat for a Dunedin constitu-
ency ; Buchanan, a dyed-in-the-wool Tory, very rich
and intolerant, ousted for Wairarapa by journalist
Hornsby. For the last two Massey will mourn
sadly. Fisher’s passing will cause him no pain. Old
“Roddy” McKenzie, one time Chairman of Com-
mittee and Ward’s Minister for Works —a fiercely-
whiskered, truculent Scot—was snuffed out after a
long innings. McNab, who visits Australia now and
again to carry on research work at the Libraries,
downed the squatters’ nominee for Hawke’s Bay and
returns to a Parliament from which he’d been six
years absent. Quite unexpectedly George Fowlds, of
Auckland, formerly Minister for Education, was
again beaten by picture-showman Payne. He’s a
queer fish this Payne. The central figure in every
row during the session, he has nevertheless 765
different schemes for regenerating the Universe.
Aeneas Macintosh, the .young skipper of
the Aurora, which lately cleared for Ross
>Sea with Shackleton’s scientists on board,
was mate of a I’, and O. boat when he got
permission to go as second on the Nimrod,
the vessel that took Shack.'’s first crew into
the eternal cold. While there the South
Pole or something fell on one of his eyes,
and it had to give way to a glass imitation.
Subsequently, when he applied to the nigger-
manned co. for his old position, it gazed on
his misfortune and urged him to close the
door from the outside, but not to bang it lest
he should create a draft.
Marshall Lyle is nominated by the East
Melbourne branch of the P.L.C., as a fit
and proper candidate for the Bendigo seat,
rendered vacant by the sudden ending of
llome-Afifairs Arthur. Marshall Lyle, who
is a solid democrat, has done the cause some
service. Ten years ago lie fought a forlorn
hope against T. Bent for Brighton. lie
hadn’t a chance, and his party knew he
hadn’t, but Lyle kept the plump cabbage
king going at such a bat that the Bent T
lost 2st. in the course of the scrimmage.
The Labor party wants lawyers, being a
trifle short in legal learning; and for that
and sundry other reasons the P.L.C. is giv-
ing the claims of the forensic heavyweight
long and serious consideration.
ENGLAND WANTS MEN.
But you would hardly believe it, seeing ike uses to which she puts so many of them.
Captain Otho Gilliat, a popular Dudley
A.1).C., who spent a couple of years in
Australia, has been killed in action. He
left his regiment—the Rifle Brigade—and
went to Japan with the Cyril Wards, a
brother and sister-in-law of Lord Dudley,
but rejoined when the war broke out. His
father is Howard Gilliat, a well-known Lon-
don business man ; and an uncle was a Gov-
ernor of the Bank of England.
MR. ANGAS PARSONS, Barrister and
M.P., of Adelaide.
Henare Tau, the half-caste, who appears to
hold the balance of power between the
evenly-divided forces in Maoriland’s newly-
elected Assembly, came under the spot-
light in a curious manner. His tribe
was choosing its candidate for one of the
native seats ; and as the river of talk went
on and on, the women, who had been listen-
ing patiently in the background, left the
meeting in a body. Presently they returned
and announced that the show was over and
Tau had the ticket. The most astonished
man was Tau. lie wasn’t even a candidate
for the job, but, being the matinee idol of
the tribe, that was a mere detail.
H. S. Richards, the newest Rhodes Scholar
for Maoriland, is the first Canterbury
College man to get the honor. lie is 20,
took his B.A. at 17 and his M.A. last month
with honors in mathematics and electricity.
Ilis sport is swimming and running; his
hobby, the rifle.
THE MAN WHO DOESN'T COUNT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
....battles similar'to those of which we have had
experience in Bavaria this summer; battles during
which, with drums beating’, masses of infantry have
been launched one upon the other under a hail of
bullets my humble opinion is that the dead never
entered into his Majesty’s calculations. —Count
Haeseler, in the Reichstag in 1897, talking of the
Gevman military manoeuvres.
Maybe two feet of earth will lie
To hide the fleshless bones of it.
The Something that made haste to die,
The man who doesn’t count a bit.
The armies to the tally come
And forward to the battle tread ;
But who would beat a mustering drum
To number the unnumbered dead?
ere there a day of judgment set
Beyond all human reckoning,
Bevengeful Time might not forget
The pawns of statesman and of king,
The mouldering disregarded heap
Of refuse none will care to weigh,
Wherein the worms will bite and creep
In mockery of Judgment Day.
tor they are dead. They do not count.
Bor ever while the world shall win
Its pain or bliss in like amount
They can no more be reckoned in.
So sweep them swiftly out of sight.
They do not feel. We do not care.
They may have lost or won their fight,
But they are done with. Leave them there.
N.S.W.
ADAM McCAY.
THE LION AROUSED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
London tailors declare that they find a shrinkage
of live or six inches in the waistcoat measurements
of elderly and middle-aged clients owing to volun-
tary military training'.— War news.
My grandad is a new recruit;
It fairly makes me grin
To see him, in a saggy suit,
A-trying to look thin ;
The old dog runs to catch the ’lnis,
As lively as a pup ;
To Sandow class he go.es with us
To get his muscle up.
Ilis figure’s not exactly slight—
It bulge's still a bit—
But grandad draws his waistcoat tight
And kids himself lie’s “fit.”
lJe measures chests with Uncle Bill,
And swings upon the bars,
And ever since he started drill
lie’s careful with cigars.
He wants to “like a soldier fall
Upon some battle plain” ;
He leaves his brolly in the hall
And trots out in the rain ;
He’s struck upon his martial air,
And says he'll learn to swim.
E’en to the Devil let’s be fair,
Bill’s done a lot for him.
VICTORIA.
LITTLE TOMMY COCKNEY.


Jr . :
%%-r
mmmm
m
\
>■ ■
y
r s.
&
S.
m
71 '
s. m
f M j
r y
/ y
.
%b
M
■
y
? ? •
.i r:
v<:
,i. .
IMsHmi
:_ £!
m
d
’>
iPtlfl
H
.
T ' <,
•.'•• •*
fas
sa
i?
#
i
*
&as i
mssmm
1 : ' i:U ,- -.„ . • ;>=- :
*—-— : — ; —
iL
■
(LMK) pipes
400
DO NOT CRACK OR BURN.
58?
f *«y W
• VC;
L-M N


IRRIGATION.
We carry Large Stocks of Steam- and
Power-driven Reciprocating Pumps.
Also Large Stocks of Centrifugal Pumps suitable for Irrigation Work.
Cash or Terms.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
49 Clarence St., Sydney
BUCYRUS CO. Milwaukee
Steam Shovels, Drag Line Excavators.
Sole Agents-WILLIAM ADAMS C&b COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
The WILDCAT
COUMN
* * * *
Dalgety and Co., Ltd., pastoral finance,
shipping, merchant and general agency
people:—
Written
Off Pre- To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. raises, serves, serves.
1002.. £84,848 7 p.c. =£70,000 £14,848 £lBl,BBl
1903:. 48,825 5 ~ ~ 50,000 180,706
1904.. 64,802 5 ~ ~ 50,000 14,802 195,508
1905.. 85,892 6 „ ~ 60,000 25,892 221,400
1906. . 103,981 7 ~ ~ 70,000 33,981 255,381
1907.. 142,743 7 ~ ~ 70,000 £30,000 42,743 298,124
1908.. 142,187 7 ~ ~ 70,000 30,000 42,187 340,311
(5 p. c. on prefs )
1909.. 156,502 j 7 = 70,000 } 30,000 50,460 390,771
1910.. 211,808 1 ” 80 ’ 000 \ 40,000 66,808 457,579
1911.. 2fi9,138 j pj.gj'' ” 25’000 } 40,000 64,438 r, - l >7!7
1912.. 207,438 j 8 F f c ’ ” ? o,ooo j 40,000 62,438 584,155
1913.. 213,3771 p 4 gjf’ ” 25’000 j 50,000 58,377 642,532
1914.. 209,483 j ” — 104,483 747,015
Though the accounts are made up to the
end of June the directors' final look back-
wards and forwards was not taken till early
in November, when the appropriations were
also decided upon. You see the first effect
of this postponement in the fact that nothing
is written oft’ premises account; further,
nothing is transferred to the formal reserve
fund, a big floating balance of £11)7,015 being
retained in Profit and Loss so that; this
current year’s troubles may be 1 conveniently
provided for. And, since Dalgetv’s come in
business contact with the people who are
suffering more keenly than almost anybody
else, troubles are more than possible. Though
the co. has of late years gone into most paths
where commissions can be picked up, no
doubt the bulk of the business is still with
wool and gram growers. The drought has
been hitting these people hard. Though Dal-
gety’s' are one of the three buying agents
appointed by the N.S.W. Government, their
commission earnings from wheat handling
throughout the Commonwealth will be
scarcely worth mentioning this year. More-
over, what will be handled will not be
shipped, and that means a further loss of
pickings for Dalgety’s. who are in the ship-
ping and insurance business, too. Wool com-
missions also have shrivelled, and even if a
market can be found for the clip which is
now mostly held in stores, the price can’t
be good till the war is over.
And while Dalgety’s cut from the clip and
the crop has thus suffered, and will go on
suffering, its occasional cut from the cheque
on its way back to the grower must inevi-
tably suffer also. For instance, the farmer
won’t want many motor-cars this year. A
few rabbit-traps wherewith to catch the
only meat he can, in many cases, afford are
more in his line at present. All this means
loss of revenue; and, to counterbalance that,
1 talgety’s can’t sacrifice their staff —one of
the most capable and happy in Australia.
1 It is, by the way, significant that, though
this year most of the usual appropriations
were dropped, the Staff Benevolent Fund got
its customary £lO,OOO, making its present
total £71,000.)
Phe dropping of a few thousands of revenue
]&n t, however, of serious consequence to a
co. like this. "What would be serious would
he the loss of a few hundreds of thousands
ot principal. And in a pastoral-finance busi-
ness of Dalgety's dimensions a hundred
thousand could he dropped without much
trouble. Here are some figures, showing,
among other things, what the risks are :
Liabilities.
r , . 1900. 1913. 1914.
lanital . . £1,000.000 £1.500,000 £1,500,000
1 crpetual 4 ; p.c.. . 620,000 309,749 509,749
>: 4 P-c... 1,643,210 1.753,391 1,753,391
lerniinable 4 p.c. 86,720 374.473 303,953
3J P.c. 1,400 Nil Nil
34 p.c. 21,145 2.000 1,000
_ » 3 p.c. 105.670 Nil Nil
Sundry creditors 1.759,320 3,021,069 3,116,488
Assets.
Advances, proper-
ties, etc. . . 4,609,575 6,401,640 5,931,216
Premises, etc. . . 277.189 676,977 650,409
( ash, deposits, etc. 196,763 894,098 1,460,971
That is an arbitrary grouping, of course;
thus all the Reserve Fund investments, which
include the co.’s London freehold premises,
are reckoned in with cash, deposits, etc.
However, what the table shows quite clearly
is that the co. has over £8,000,000 of assets,
most of them more or less subject to depre-
ciation, and slightly under £2,300,000 of the
total is the co.’s own. The balance—upwards
of £5,700.000--represents other people’s
money, for the security of which the share-
holders have pledged their own funds. But
the. table shows one great advantage under
which the co. works: no less than £2,263,140
of the other people’s money is irredeemable.
That is a splendid thing, not only for the co.
hut for the co.’s borrowing customers and
other creditors, in a country like Australia,
where capital values have been in the habit
ot varying tremendously with the ins and
outs of capricious seasons. John Stuart
Mill drew attention to the wonderfully rapid
recovery of agricultural countries after
devastating wars. Their recovery after
devastating droughts may be oven more won-
derful, through the land yielding in extra-
abundance after its rest. A co. like this,
with so miich of its debt fixed, gets the
benefit of this swift recuperation—a benefit
which both it and many of its customers
would lose if frightened creditors could step
in and by .withdrawing their money force the
co. to realise instead of permitting it to
nurse its sick securities.
* * * *
The Agricultural Bank of Queens-
land :—•
Profit Net Profit
Before Available
Paying Interest Paid for
June, Interest. to State. Reserves. Deficit.
1903 .. . £289 3 p.e. = £47 £336
1904 .. 501 3 ~ „ 417 £B4 252
1905 .. 826 3 „ ~ 773 53 199
Reserves.
1906 .. 2,476 3 „ ~ 2,031 445 246
1907 .. 4,212 3 „ ~ 3,161 1051 1,297
1908 . . 4,771 3 „ ~ 3,445 1326 2,62:!
1909 .. 5,257 3 ~ ~ 3,851 1406 4,029
1910 . . 6,253 3 „ ~ 4,278 1975 6,004
1911 .. 7,694 3 „ ~ 5,147 2547 8,551
1912 .. 10,236 3 „ „ 6,918 3.318 11,869
1913 .. 16,305 4 ~ ~12,950 3355 15 224
1914 . . 24,368 4 „ „ 21,386 2982 18^206
This institution made little progress at the
start, though it probably made as much as
it was intended to. Anyway, nobody of
sense who wanted it; to make much would
have put such shackles on it. Later on
some of these cords were cut. But if the
cords went the red-tape was left; and that
was nearly as bad. The vast area over
which the securities and proffered securities
are scattered lias also meant expense and
delay; and while the customer has been
waiting for the State to attend to him, the
private bank manager, being on the spot,
has very often snapped him up if he looked
worth snapping. It’s a pity, but it’s true
that to a great extent the State Bank’s cus-
tomers are people whose accounts are not—-
well, say, rushed by private banks. As
time goes on the more solid customer may
come in. For- one thing, there isn't unite
as much delay as there used to be. Still,
even now of 12!) applications for assistance
hung up at the end of the fiscal year, 55 had
been suspended for more than a month.
The next table shows the total outstand-
ing and a few other things:—
Advances
Advances Repaid . Expenses
Out- during Working p.c. of
standing. Year. Expenses. Advances.
1903 .. £6,253 --- £ 557 £8 18 2
1904 .. 20,370 £650 55 0 214 0
1905 .. 38,417 311 687 115 9
1906 .. 94,268 3,229 1043 1 2 0
1907 .. 112,216 12,90.8 124.3 1 2 2
1908 .. 119,344 16,71-6 1199 1 0 1
1909 .. 136,047 16.184 1388 1 0 3
1910 .. 16.3,641 21,551 15-15 IS 0
1911 .. 200,998 27,79,3 1814 17 6
1912 .. 305,653 21,804 2599 17 0
1913 .. 470,796 27.808 3754 15 11
1914 .. 636,790 61,950 4192 13 2
The number of borrowers at June 30 was
5111, so the average Joan is under £125;
and, taking that and the. area of the State
into account, a low working expense rate is
out of the question. As a matter of fact,
the working exes, set but above include bad
debts written off (£l6O for the past year) ;
and that makes the economy of the office
all the more' striking. Certainly some-
thing would break if the office waved a lordly
hand and "did the thing properly.” The
interest chargeable is only 5 p.c. —rid jea-
lously little considering the size of many of
the loans, the nature of the security and
the conditions on -which they are granted—
and the money costs the bank 4 p.c. It is
advanced by the Treasury at that rate,
though hoxv the Treasury is going to keep it
up The Bulletin doesn’t know —and pos-
sibly the Treasury doesn’t either. In any
circumstances 1 p.c. wouldn’t be enough to
pay exes, and provide for contingencies; but
seeing that the security in many cases is
wretched, and the contingencies therefore
serious, the margin is wholly inadequate.
Interest ought to he put up to 54 p.c. at
the very least. That the bank is "liable to
he hit by having securities flung on its hands
is pretty clear from the fact that last year,
when things were good in Queensland, 25
properties came into possession and only 13
were sold. The majority of the advances
are made on new farms or selections; and
when the original holder abandons it, after
making a scratch or two, there is
positively no sort of guarantee that anybody
else will even look at it.
* * * *
The National Bank of Tasmania
(Launceston. Tas.) :
Writ-
Divideruls nid ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
JC £ £ £ £
May, 1907.. 9077 7 p.c. = 5587 . 3490 39,190
Nov., 1907.. 8570 7 „ „ 5557 1000 1983 41,173
-Mav, 1908.. 8793 7 ~ 5587 1000 2206 43,379
Nov., 1908.. 8464 7 .. ~ 5587 2877 46,256
May, 1909.. 8288 7 ~ „ 5587 2701 48,957
Nov., 1909.. 7647 7 ~.,5654 1993 50,950
May, 1910.. 8115 7 „ ~ 5654 2461 53,411
Nov., 1910.. 8058 7 ~ „ 5651 2404 55,815
Mav, 1911. .8127 7 ~ ~ 5557 2540 58,355
Nov.. 1911 .. 7110 7 ~.,5587 1523 59,878
Mav, 1912.. 8828 7 ~ ~ 5587 1000 2241 62,119
Nov., 1912..7906 7 ~ ~ 5587 2319 64,438
May, 1913.. 8656 7 „ „ 5587 3069 67,507
Nov., 1913..8762 7 „ „ 5587 1500 1675 69,182
May, 1914..9393 7 .. ~ 5587 1000 2806 71.05 S
Premiums on new shares. . 4321 76,309
Nov., 1914. .8402 7 p.c. = 6653 1749 78,058
And along with that reads this
Liabilities.
1j0v.,’13. N0v.,'14.
Notes in circulation .. £4,998 £4,427 Dec. £572
Bills, etc 21.501 14,406 Dec. 7,095
Deposits at interest . . 328,004 313,562 Dec. 14,442
Free deposits.. .. 333,765 312,816 Dec. 20,949
Assets.
Liquid assets . . . . 199,007 209,802 Inc. 10,795
Advances . . .. 689,371 689,722 Inc. 351
Premises, etc 28,199 25,648 Dec. 2,551
The fact that the bank holds more liquid
assets than it did 12. months ago, notwith-
standing that the public has drawn out
£42,000 of its money, is due simply to the
issue of 8642 new shares, on which £5 has
been paid, in addition to 10s. premium.
This transaction added £43,210 to the capi-
tal and made it £195,250: The arrival of
this new money has materially helped the
bank to meet any sudden emergency; over 32
p.c. of the public’s money is now in liquid
assets, and that is a much better figure than
this bank has usually shown, though even
now it is none too good. But that isn’t
to be taken to mean that there is any room
for anxiety on the part of depositors. The
bank’s total liabilities are £645,211. Its
liquid assets are £209,802. Thus there are
£435,409 of debts not represented by liquid
assets. But to pay that £435,409 the bank
has no less than £715,370 of non-liquid
assets; and as many of these are worth 20s.
in the £ at any moment, there would have to
be a tremendous slum]) in the others to put
the creditors of the bank in any danger. On
capital and reserves of £230,098 some banks
have borrowed from depositors and others a
million and a half. This bank’s borrowings
are under £650,000. But while that modera-
tion means excellent security for creditors
and no very great risks for shareholders, it
means comparatively modest profits; and so
long as shareholders can get 7 p.c. they
ought to be very well satisfied indeed. The
first table, by the way. starts with the first
7 p.c. div. Before 1907 6 p.c. had been
paid for some years.
The ( Canterbury Frozen Meat and
Dairy Produce Export (’o. (Maoriland) :
Written To Re- Re-
Nov., Loss. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1004.. £2,315 4 p.c. = £3,927 £11,700
Premiums on new shares.. .. £1,329 13,029
Profit.
1905.. 15,074-J ® p,c - 4 345 | 6,406 19,435
190 ft,. 23,8331 g ”,
1907.. 20,8101 g ” £s*>;- £s,oqp. 2,612 32,080
1908.. 15,071 6 pic. = 11’023 3,590 548 33,234
1909.. 17,493 6 ~ ~ 11.023 3,500 2.970 30,204
1910.. 45,9441 ® ” F'f ggj 18,972 13,774 49,978
1911.. 21,940 jg -■ Ptf- 4,W| 4 ,135 j. 4,113
1912.. 24,862 |f ;; £5OO j 4,840 7,314 61,427
1913 .. 45,4121 g ” ££* S) 15,073 17,141 78,568
Premiums on new .shares.. .. 28 78,596
1914 P-c. pref. iv'OO \ -r - ,;v- so-'B3
1.. -8,-~o^ g orf] 5,704 j ’ 80, " s
That is £57,333 of profit written off in seven
years, nominally to pay for the using-up of
machinery and plant. Actually, though new
premises have been acquired at Yaldhnrst
and Styx, and though big additions have
been made elsewhere, land, works and plant
stand in the hooks at less to-day than they
did seven years ago. This means that more
profit has been put by than the renewals,
replacements and additions have cost. Here
are a few comparisons:—
1907. 1913. '1914.
Liabilities .. .. £104,542 £79,668 £83,033
Works and fixed assets .. 274,509 272,201 270,189
Stocks 23,914 33,877 47,008
Book debts, etc. . . 29,132 42,484 43,195
Meantime capital has been increased from
£183,727 to £183,870, and that difference is
so little that it may be for a moment dis-
regarded. Seven years’ work lias, there-
fore, done this: (1) it lias paid a dividend
of 6 p.c. on the prefs. and usually 8 p.c. on
the ordinaries; (2) it has paid for some-
thing over £50,000 of land and works,
nominally to replace works worn out; (3)
it has reduced liabilities by £20,909; and (4)
it has added £37,157 to the stocks, advances
against shipments and book debts. In the
past year the liabilities have increased
slightly, but there is, against that, a big
addition to the stocks. The freezing busi-
ness is no doubt more or less erratic, even
in Canterbury, where nature is*so kind ; but
every year sees the risks of the business re-
duced. through the gradual improvement in
water and feed conservation, which means
that cos. like this are better assured of
supplies at fair prices. In common with
other concerns this one will suffer from the
upset of business due to the war; hut the
upset, so far as Australas'an meat-freezers
and packers are concerned, isn’t going to
last, and in the long run the German mad-
ness will probably put money in their
pockets. t
The National Trustees. Executors
and Agency Co. of Australasia (.Mel-
bourne) :
To Be- Ke-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1903 ..*2408 8 p.c. = £2400 *8 £23,912
1904 . . 2433 8„ „ 2400 33 23,940
1905 .. 2414 8 ~ „ 2400 14 23,909
1906 . . 2725 9 „ „ 2700 2a 23,984
1907 . . 2714 9 ~ 2700 14 23,998
1908 . . 2761 9 „ ~ 2700 61 24,059
1909 . . 2751 9 „ 2700 ol 24,110
1910 .. 5680 10 .. ~ 3000 2680 26,<90
1911 .. 4122 10 ~ .. 3000 1122 27,912
1912 .. 3540 10 „ „ 3000 540 28,452
1913 .. 4114 10 ~ ~ 3000 1114 29,566
1914 .. 4274 10 ~ ~ 3000 1274 30,840
Let’s take a look at the last two seven-year
periods. We might take three; but the
1893-1900 span would be painful: —
1900. 1907. 1914.
Liabilities .. ..£18,716 £14,667 *179
Liquid assets .. 12,703 11,427 11,49<
Freehold . . . . 23,620 41,600 41,600
Foreclosures . . 13,769 8,484 5,887
Mortgages . . . . 21,965 5,500 1,500
Other assets . . 1,766 3,226 2,101
In the aggregate the figures have not changed
very greatly ; but the assets have. In 1900
there was £35,734 represented by fore-
closures and mortgages. Now there is only
£7387. The £28,000 odd which has been got
in has been used to pay off the liability,
a mortgage on the Queen-street freehold, and
to add nearly £lB,OOO to the buildings on
that freehold. There can be no doubt that
the change has strengthened the co. For
many years only just enough profit was
shown to pay the dividend. During those
years the mortgages and foreclosures were
being rapidly reduced, and it seems highly
probable that undisclosed profit was
used to write down those assets to market
values. Assuming that to be so the early
end of the table does not show the true
earning power of the co. Apart from liquid
assets and the city office freehold, the co.
now holds £9488 of mortgages and odds and
ends ; and there isn't much risk of a large
depreciation there. For the rest, the revenue
from the city property may ease off a trifle
if Victoria has bad times; but. since
the co. owes nothing, it will not lose any
principal through having to sacrifice pro-
perty. And a mere temporary shrinkage in
earnings isn’t of any very great conse-
quence, especially as the last five years have
shown a margin which will allow of quite
a lot of shrinkage before the profit gets be-
low the 10 p.c. dividend mark.
Mosgiei, Woollen Factory Co. (Dune-
din. M.L.) :
Writ-
ten To Re- B,e-
Oet., Profit. Dividends. off. serves, server,
1903 .. £7,272 7 p.c. =£5842 £l5OO —£19,498
1904 .. 667 34 „ „ 2921 17,244
1905 . . 3,312 34 „ „ 2921 328 £63 17,307
1906 . . 2,483 24 „,, 2086 552 17,152
1907 .. 5,093 i „ „ 3338 1695 60 17,212
1908 . . 7,073 5 „ „ 4173 2746 154 17,366
1909 .. 7,230 54 „ „ 4590 2500 140 17,506
1910 .. 9,845 6 „ ~ 5007 4500 338 17,844
1911 . . 8,466 6 „ „ 5007 3000 459 18,303
1912 .. 11,827 7 „ „ 5842 5500 485 18,788
1913 .. 10,428 7 „„ 5842 4500 86 18,874
1914 .. 9.450 7 „ ~ 5842 4000 18,482
This co. is managed from Dunedin, and
Dunedin is verra cautious. It would rather
any day tell itself that it had only saxpence
in its pocket and find at night that it was
really a sliullun than declare it had a
shullun and find that the miserable coin was
really only saxpence. Besides, if you say
you have a shullun somebody may ask you
for saxpence of it. whereas if you say you
have saxpence. the same man wouldn’t have
cheek to ask ye for more than threepence of
if. So the Dunedin director, who has no
inclination to appear rich, and would much
rather he rich, has chronically written down
his plant, etc., and done it hard thus using
up liis profits and reserves. In the past
seven years £26.746 has been written off;
that is to say. that: much profit has been
spent in new plant, ostensibly as a set-off
against the depreciation of existing plant.
In fact, all the plant that has been put in
during the period has been paid for out off
profits; and in addition about £2OOO has
been used to write down . the plant in
general. Another view of the seven years'
progress is got from the following compari-
son :
1907. 1914.
Liabilities .. .. £15,302 £12.718
Liquid assets .. .. 7,532 10,303
Excess liabilities. . £7,770 £2,415
Besides paying the dividends, and providing
al 1 the machinery that has been put in, and
adding £22X7 to stock, the business has in
seven years improved the cash position by
£5355. A co. which, at the sacrifice of im-
mediate dividends builds itself up as firmly
as that deserves a lot better than 7 p.c. in
the years to come; and if anybody objects
to this co. drawing more, he will simply be
putting a camper on future prudent finance.
The I ic. insurance offices are sniggering.
Ilecentl.v a State Insurance Department
was _ established, allegedly to protect the
Public against an insurance combine. The
regulations provide that private cos. shall
put up guarantees. It is further laid down
that, whereas £6OOO is the ordinary figure,
a co. which offers to undertake the public’s
business at less than the State office’s rates
shall put up more than £6OOO. In other
words, there’s a penalty for doing the very
tiling which it was alleged the office was
established for. And yet it is perfectly
right—and that is where the absurdity of a
lot of the howling about excessive insurance
rates comes in. You can’t have low rates
and security, as a rule ; and the State does
the. right thing in demanding a higher de-
posit from the co. which takes business for
less than the State office thinks is safe and
profitable. Except here and there the Aus-
tralian insurance rates are not too high.
\Yhat is too high in very many cases is the
dividend rate. The most essential thing is
security—the assurance that you’ll get your
money—and you can’t have- that, even
though you pay a high rate, if the office
BALANCING DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wouldn’t care to tabulate the cash I’ve had and
spent r
On dinners, holidays and girls, on tailors and on
rent;
I think I’d die if “Wild Cat” once reviewed me as
a co.,
And told me what he thought of me, and where I
ought to go;
For, as my hair falls out and I perceive I’m -getting
“nerves,”
I realise I’ve never placed a shilling to reserves ;
And when I go and get a chill, and, later on, a
cough,
1 shudder to remember I have written nothing off.
My profits and my dividends are usually the same —
At least, they are when I’m in luck and fairly in
the game;
But when the grim word “shortage” looms, ah ! then
I’m all at sea,
And conscious that I’m fitted with decayed machinery.
“Plant and accessories” then seem the poorest assets
one
Could ever tempt high Heaven with before the set
of sun ;
And how I writhe inside when I reflect and under-
stand
What sort of rot and rubbish I describe as “stock
in hand.”
I cannot, dare not, stop to think, as on my round
I go,
How “Wild Cat” would come down on me if I were
but a co.
A scrap of credit holds me up—l live from breath
to breath ;
The business that’s Me must stop at one chill touch
from Death;
And yet, without reserves, amid thick dangers do I
reel,
As though compound of concrete set upon a base of
steel!
Amazed at mine own madness, I take up my flesh
and bones,
And hurl myself once more downhill emitting guilty
groans.
N.s.w.
ONE OF THE SHADOWS.


The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
(“THE M.L.C,”)
Assets Exceed £8,750,000
Annual Income Exceeds ... £1,400,000
The Company is prepared to consider
applications for
MORTGAGE LOANS
on
FARMING AND GRAZING LANDS.
This week conies news from New Zealand of a bis?
“Pioneer'.’ belt that has been running night and day
for 11 years, which is equal to about 30 (working)
years—and, writes our correspondent: “It’s working
At efficient to-day.” What better proof can you
have than the experience of fellow Australian plant
owners—men who have the same power transmission
difficulties as yourself? Let us send you a length
of “Pioneer” to try at our expense on your stiffest
drive —our nearest office will respond quickly.
“Pioneer” is made only by J. O. Ludowiei k Son
Ltd., “Pioneer” Works, 117 York Street, Sydney
(opp. Q. V. Markets). Sold in Victoria by Geo.
ltussell P't’v, Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne;
South Australia by .1. McKell, Timpson Street, Port
Adelaide: Queensland: Queensland Machinery Co.
Ltd., Brisbane; W. Australia, by Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth; Broken Hill: Geo. 0. Demp-
ster, Argent Street.*
* * 1 * *
C. A. Parsons k Co. Ltd., Newcastle-on-T.vne, are
now making their geared turbines whereby !ho
Parsons’ Steam Turbine may be geared to a slow-
running dynamo, pump, etc. Sets up to 4000 k.w.
are already running, and a large geared turbo pump-
ing set is shortly arriving for the Metropolitan Board
of Water Supply and Sewerage, Sydney. High
efficiency is secured and the economy of the high-
speed turbine is still maintained. The Union
steamer Maheno has recently been re-engined and fitted
with geared turbines, and numerous other boats are
now running. Sole agents. William Adams and Com-
pany Limited, Sydney, Melbourne. Brisbane and
Perth. *
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh scree r
takes about 10 hours to complete, the Hoover P' 'J!
will make the same test in about half an hou' 'n,
the use of one of these Sizers the saving j n 'time
would, in a very short while, cover the s’-
cost of the machine. The machine cp" ,'
with any scries of screens. The Air , ui „ Piio .
“h 0 "™* "" * *
* *
her ' on'" «?rjh L, . CT ' Holdkh, London, Novcm-
tho i h ? C °, lr uial Mutual has long had
.ml ambitions of
5 “ 755 £s* “ to "he mind
cautious that the ‘f bl 1 e . to bein ° inert an(l h ' V| ' t e , v *
respectful eons!* ’"? trall f n office ,liay we ) l s “ urc t,lfi
modifies it oiA 'V °" ° f p T so V S /° r u f onv
alone Onlv ” vs because of its up-to-date pushfulness
pared with years old—almost a youngster com-
Mutual * somc of our ancient offices—the Colonial
nrossed - ,as > rom the commencement of its career
L, _ forward with uncommon determination and
Its growth has been remarkable.”* [7
PIONEER WOOD PIPE was laid four years ago by
U'c Borough of Horsham Waterworks Trust, Victoria.
They have 12 miles of 12-inch pipe, with a head oi'
.100 feet. Last year their bill for maintenance was
6/-. Catalogue from The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., contractors to all State Governments, 57 York
Street, Sydney (Head Office).*
On the Murrumbidgee at the present time land
owners find it necessary to irrigate extensively to
provide feed for their stock. Many up-to-date plants
have been, or are, in the course of erection by R.
Hornsby & Sons Ltd., of 1 Barrack Street, Sydney,
and at Melbourne and Brisbane.* [2
J. Malcolm Nrwman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Street.
Sydney.*
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.*
“Robey’s” latest steam combination —Self-Con-
tained Superheated Compound Engine and Boiler—
powers from 30 to 400 b.h.p. Not built to sell,
built to last. Represented by Arthur Leplastrier &
Co. Head Office, Sydney.*
* # * *
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boileis, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.*
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison k Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.*
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
divides'so much that it can’t lay by any-
thing to speak of.
* * * *
“Pickwick” : My son, who volunteered for
the Boer War, before he left took out a
policy for £2U<) in the A.M.P. Society. On
reaching Maritzburg it was found peace bad
been declared on June 2. Ilis policy bears
date June 12, 1902, or 30 days later. lie re-
turned to Australia and obtained his dis-
charge in due course, lie has now volun-
teered for the present war and finds the
A.M.P. Society demands an extra premium
of £5 per cent, or £IU per annum from one
who goes to fight the Empire’s battles. Not
so other life-assurance societies. In one of
them my son has a policy less than two
years old. This society informed him in
writing that no additional premium would
be charged. My son reluctantly decided to
accept the surrender value of his policy in
the A.M.P., after remonstrances by letter
had proved unavailing, and notified that
the society could pay the amount to a solici-
tor in town, to whom lie had given a power
of attorney. Thereafter the A.M.P. de-
mands £1 Is. solicitor’s fee, for perusing the
document. Surely the action of the A.M.P.
is, to say the least of it, illiberal and un-
patriotic when applied to a policy-holder
of 12 years’ standing desiring to serve his
country and the Empire by volunteering for
the front.
* * * *
Last month Britain imported 20,185 tons
of lead, only 1698 tons of which came from
Australia. The balance —18,487 tons —came
from Spain and America, which can dump
lead at low freights into John Bull’s open
market. Much has been written about the
supremacy of German metal firms in Aus-
tralia. Now the plain fact is that Britain
imports most of its copper from America,
most of its lead from Spain and most of its
spelter from Belgium. That being so, what
else can Australia do but sell to the
foreigner ?
* * * *
Three months ago a correspondent asked
what had happened to the capital put up by
the Ardlethan Options, Ltd., and not spent
on the field. In a circular just issued to
shareholders, and dated from Ardlethan, B.
Blackwell tries to explain. It seems that
about the middle of 1913 W. G. Easdown,
Ihe late manager, commenced an action in
Equity against the co., claiming 60 paid-up
shares, and the co. cross-claimed against
Easdown “for the recovery of certain com-
missions alleged to have been received by
Easdown in connection with the acquisition
of certain properties in such circumstances
as to constitute him the co.’s trustee.” Eas-
down paid up £866, and the co. then pro-
ceeded to ascertain whether he had nob
received more than that amount. The
Master in Equity found that he hadn’t, and
the co. appealed. The Chief Judge in Equity
unheld the Master and ordered the co. to
pay costs of the two lots of proceedings. As
it had been reported that the co. would go
to the High Court, Blackwell asked for a
special meeting of shareholders to discuss
the matter, and was informed that the direc-
tors didn’t propose to hold the annual meet-
ing till the appeal had been disposed of. An
informal meeting has therefore been called
for January 32. Blackwell adds: “Another
matter which requires the consideration of
Ihe shareholders is the recent action of the
Board in underwriting shares in the Amal-
gamated Hill End (of which Mr. J. E.
Scantlebury is also the managing director)
and in investing the co.’s money in the Per-
natty Lake Copper Syndicate, in each case
without previously consulting the share-
holders.”
* * * *
The lead market is so much improved that
the Sulphide Corporation is working its
lead furnaces at Cockle Creek at high pres-
sure and maintaining an output of over 650
tons of bullion per week. The co.’s own
mill at Broken Hill supplies most of the
feed.
•;****
So far, H. E. Pratten hasn’t had much
luck with the Hargraves Consolidated
(N.S.W.) into which he has been dropping
some of the money dredged out of Australian
and English pockets in payment for Malay tin
shows and shares. There are two shafts on the
property, 600 ft. apart-—the Big Nugget and
the Hill End. When things looked pretty
hopeless J. M. Newman was called in, and
he thought it rfiight be worth while trying
the bottom level of the Hill End shaft, which
till then had been quite neglected. This bot-
tom level is at 180 ft., and two small crush-
ing's from there have given one 41dwt. and
the other 27dwt. per ton. The vein is nar-
row. but keeps going for the whole 90ft. of
the drive. As £7 stone, even in a vein, is too
good to turn down, the shaft is to be sunk
50ft. to give the show another chance. The
co. is right out of money, though there is
£l5OO uncalled; but Mr. Pratten has under-
taken to finance the shaft-sinking. He lias
already handed out over £lOOO beyond his
proper whack of the capital. Newman takes
a seat on the Board.
* * * #
Cash being wanted, Bangadang. Adelong
(N.S.W.), is to have a new co. of £lOO,OOO
in 5000 shares of £2O each. The present co.
gets 3000 paids. These replace 500 shares
paid to £lO. Then as a reward for coming
in, South Bangadang gets 100 paids lor 3 •>
acres; Bangadang No. 1 North SOO panls
and £5OO cash for 13 acres; and the Key-
stone with 23 acres has to he content with
100 paids. Promoters put up £20,000 by
taking 1000 shares, and in return mop up
another 1000 paids as commission. Thus
4000 shares are accounted for, and with
1000 in reserve the tally is made up. IV ho
says the promoting hand has lost its skill?
Wagga was the best hunting-ground for
cash, as folks there think Bangadang will
heat the old Gibraltar. The Bulletin
hopes it will, hut fears there are going to he
disappointments. Short lenses will most
likely make the co.’s record a thing of
violent contrast'.
The Westralian Government lias gazetted
its intention of assisting the mining of
metalliferous ores whose principal metallic
constituent is tin. lead or copper by making
cash advances of 90 per cent, of the assay
value, such advances to he made on the
following basis (less cost of _ storage,
sampling, assaying, shipping, insuring,
marketing, etc.) : tin at £l3O, copper at
£56 10s., lead at £l3, gold at £4, and
silver 2s. The amount payable to cover
interest and out-of-pocket expenses has been
fixed at 6 p.c. A hank will probably find
the money, and the Government will guar-
antee the repayment.
* * * *
The Yuanmi Co. (W.A.) lias pegged a
number of leases, comprising 430 acres, at
Rothsay, on the Yalgoo field. Years ago a
London co. spent a lot of money in this
locality and got returns aggregating
between £20,000 and £30,000. This was
spent also, and when funds gave out and
no more gold could be found, the company
shut up and left. Shareholders got nothing.
The shoots in the district thus won the repu-
tation of being erratic and shortlived.
Westralian papers are growling at Yuanmi
for being so greedy in the matter of area,
and urge the Labor Government to insist
on the company working the lot or giving
up some of it.
* # * *
Yuanmi (W.A.) has issued its report for
the year ended last June. It shows that
less ore was treated than in the preceding
year and that the grade was lower and the
costs higher. The profit (£11,889) is about
£4500 less than for the previous year, but
by adding £8349 brought forward the co.
managed to pay a. Is. div. and carry £2738
forward. Considerable difficulties, chiefly of
a mechanical nature, were met with in the
treatment of sulphides at the Yuanmi. As
regards developments the consulting engi-
neers (who live in England, and, as far as
can be learned, have not lately been near
the co.’s properties) report that at the
Yuanmi some extensions of the known ore
bodies have been located and opened up, but
no new discovery has been made. As for
the Oroya-Black Range mine, development
was stopped last February, as indications
were unfavorable. Ore reserves, mostly
sulphide, are estimated in the Yuanmi at
38,870 tons worth 38s. 3d., and in the Black
Range at 45,377 tons assaying 335. 6d. Some
time ago H. C. Hoover retired from the
board, and his younger brother, T. J., was
appointed chairman in his stead. The
vacancy caused by the elder Hoover’s retire-
ment has been filled by the appointment of
•T. A. Agnew. formerly bead man for 8., VI
& Co. in the West.
* * * *
The moribund Mountain Queen lias given
reasons, per medium of an official circular,
why it was obliged to close down. Said
reasons are: (1) Oxidised ore exhaustion;
(2) unpayable sulphides. Regret is ex-
pressed at the present inability of the
company to finance the equipment of its
other (the Transvaal) property. But
perhaps it is just as well that money cannot
be obtained for this project, as the chances
of the property ever paying its way are
not bright. Its ore contains most of the
refractory abominations known to metal-
lurgists, and it would probably do better as
an arsenical poisoner than as a gold-mine.
* * * *
Altogether £32,511 was spent by the
Westralian labor Government in assisting
leaseholders, prospectors and others during
the past year. The bulk of this represented
“loans” of money horses and camels to pro-
and subsidies to batteries ; the bal-
ance was spent mostly in improving State
mills.
* * * *
Marie’s Find (W.A,), whose headquar-
ters are in Melbourne, has reconstructed
itself into a new co., in which the old con-
cern has a paid-up third interest. The
underwriters got a sixth for guaranteeing
the issue of the remaining shares. The co.
holds two 24-acre blocks at Golden Val-
ley, on the Yilfirarn field, from which several
good crushinsrs have been obtained. Bn* the
reef is narrow and tl'*> water heavy. More-
over, other gold formations worked in the
district have failed to go down, so the pro-
speets are not exactly brilliant.
* * * *
The Edna May Deeps, recently floated in
Melbourne, has appointed a local (West-
ralian) director and manager, and will stnr't
sinking right away. Everyone connect' <1
with the co. is sure that the Edna May r eef
is heading straight for the Deeps, and that
it will be found in the latter show at "450 ft.
vertical. Other people not so interest? d, and
not so sanguine, reckon that the claim stands
a good chance of getting most of v -bat the
Edna May now has at 750 ft., prr vided, of
course, that the dip does not alter or the
gold snuff out. /
***.'•#
The Advance lease at Weafconia (W.A.),
over which the Greenfinch Pvop. and others
have been fighting for three years, has been
recommended for forfeiture to a third party
by the local warden.
* * * *
Apparently Great Boulder's two “new”
lodes are not up to much. Further drilling
has failed to prove their extension south,
and the management does not appear to
regard them as being valuable. Other than
the main shoot, which the Horseshoe now
has below 2500 ft., and the one in Hamil-
ton’s workings at the extrema north end
of the co.’s territory, nothing big has been
discovered in Boulder ground, and probably
never will be. Nearly all the property out-
side these ore channels has been prospected
thoroughly by boreholes without good
results. Dabs and patches have occasion-
ally been met with here and there, but
experience has shown that it is a waste of
money to open them up.
* * * *
“Oof Bird” (W.A.) : Edna May seems
anxious to take Ihe bit in its mouth and
bolt. The treatment plant is to be. enlarged,
profits are to be automatically increased,
and dividends big enough to permanently
disable the bears are to be paid. All this
with a mine which is, according to official
estimates, less than two years ahead of the
mill at the present ,rate of output! In
support of the co.’s policy to make the mine
subservient to the Stock Exchange, a Vic-
torian daily which ought to know better
says: “If the gold is in the mine no reason
exists why it should he left in the ground.”
But hold on! Is it worth while putting
up more plant until it is proved that there
is the ore to keep it going for something
more than IS months? Suppose the new
plant costs £25,000. Is it better to get
£175,000 in IS months or £200,000 in two
years?
Chaffers (W.A.) has gone the way The
Bulletin predicted. Returns from the
new mill have been a failure, and as the co.
ran out of funds the mortgagees have taken
possession. The money spent on the
Chaffers and its machinery to date would
start a bank, and the gold alleged from time
to time to be in sight would keep a Mint
going for 20 years. Yet shareholders have
done nothing but fork out. The public is
a better milch cow than any four-footed
Strawberry that ever won a prize at an
agricultural show.
* * * *
As anticipated the Hampden-Cloncurry
men turned down the unfair wage-reduction
proposals lately put before them and dis-
cussed here three weeks ago. The manage-
ment, evidently recognising that the first
proposal was lop-sided, supplemented it with
an offer to add something when the co. was
realising £7O per ton or more, and making
£l5 or more. This didn’t make things much
better. Fortunately the copper market im-
proved substantially just then, whereupon
another notice went up: “I have been in-
structed to inform employees that, notwith-
standing their refusal, and that of the
Government, to co-operate, the Board of
Directors, anticipating the opportunity of
realising its production at satisfactory prices,
has decided to continue, and so prevent the
hardship and distress that must ensue if the
works were closed down.” That ends the
trouble, and the subject can be dropped now ;
still, for the sake of future peace, somebody
ought to urge the co. not to be a hypocritical
humbug. It was obviously trying to save
its own bacon : and when it whines about
hardship and distress among the employees
it merely makes the men suspicious. They
don’t forget that the works were closed
down promntly when the war started, dis-
tress or no distress.
*•* * #
Blair Athol Coal (Q.) had doubts about
it; but as things seem to be improving and
revenue has been coming in fairly well, it
decided to cut up a sixpenny Christmas
cake. This makes two dividends (£5OOO
altogether) for the half-year. The net pro-
fit ran to only £4138. So far the prospecting
alongside the deep water of Newry Islands
has given no coal worth mentioning; but
there are good enough indications to war-
rant the few more bores that are now being
drilled here.
From Henry Hartrick : Re Long Tunnel
(deceased). You remark that “Harry Hart-
rick stood sponsor for the mine.” Quite
correct, no doubt, as far as you go; but
with a condition. I had one object in view,
and expressed it plainly, viz., to sink a blind
shaft under the 8375 ft. level 15ft. in the
eastern wall and work with short crosscuts
and 100 ft. lifts. This would have been
about plumb under where the old Extended
main crosscuts intersected the lode. C /n
arrival of the manager on the mine Ip r jj.
before him, and he agreed that, wi*' n ‘ t i ie
money at our disposal, it '”:n the col . rec t
thing to do. However, the ' evnm ent > g , )r(>
gramme as laid out by the oflio’ a j s ; ns ; s ted
on the main shaft scheme, t\u r ' a V the Gov-
ernment had to find half the inonev we ] ia( f
no alternative, although it eansed consider-
able opposition. The fini' ih is that while we
must admit prospects ,atterlv did not look
too bright, we have. yet 500 ft. to drive
before we can decle ~0 that it is not in that
part ot the mni'', -[ venture to say we
would have P’-Cml the south ground more
eiiectivelv by • the blind-shaft scheme for less
than halt tb e money spent. I merely men-
tion this to give the position as it was, in case
further r .airmen): is made; but T am not
grumblr n g a t ni y loss, which included all
calls .vom first to last.
* * * *
A. IT. P. Moline’s first clean-up at the
revised Cock’s Pioneer, Eldorado (Vic.),
was 2710 z. gold and four tons tin oxide,
roughly worth £l5OO. The clean-up doesn’t
count for much, though, as it is the first
run with the plant. This had to be lowered
to the bottom of the two-acre paddock
cleaned out by the old co.. so it is hardly
likely that much of the so-called bottom
floor was washed into the well-hole for
pumping. The next run should be under
proper conditions. Then Moline should show
his yardage as well as his yield.
* * * *
The Melbourne boss of Tongkah Com-
pound. Siam, is A. W. Palfreyman, one of
the pillars of the Australian jam business;
and as his own cash set the co. on its legs at
a time when Malayan prospects were poor,
he deserves the fat dividends which have
arrived. But he isn't swell: d-headed so
doesn’t deny that a boom tin-market put the
Compound from (he jump into a position ot
beastly affluence. Just now it is sliding
hack a Bit. Starting on 1.171 b. tin wash,
contents moved to 2.701 b. in the March term
of l!)13, kept up to about that level for a
year, and then sidled back to 1.411 b. Profits
have moved similarly. They opened _at
X.l3d. per cubic yard in 1012. reached 88.59 d.
in 1013, and now are back at (>.o2d. Bast
half-year the metal averaged £O2 Ids.
Present market prices give the eo. a higher
return; and now that the Fmden is out of
the way there shouldn’t be any trouble
over shipments of the metal. The eo. ljas
worked out a big section of its first lease,
but still has 70 acres to dredge. Most of
this doesn't, however, bore over lib. per
cubic yard; so profits may have to be cut
down unless costs can be reduced or the
ground goes better than the bores. To
extend the co.’s life Palfreyman has his eye
open for any choice paddocks available;
and as lie is persona grata with the Siamese
officials, his chances that way are of the
best. The Compound's record to date is
1,890,088 cubic yards treated for 17084 tons
tin oxide, worth £202,880. Out of this
£126,250 has been pouched for dividends.
For the pouring of this handy amount into
Australia A. W. Freeman was mainly
responsible. lie was afraid of Tongkah,
which lie couldn’t prospect, but cordially
recommended the Compound, whose richness
was visible to his own eye.
* * * *
Dumper: Thanks, and when a specific
proposition is made which seems to you un-
sound we’ll be much obliged if you will tell
us why you think so. ~ .E.8.A.: We’d like
documentary evidence before printing.
(“Wild Cat" continued on page 38.)


Heerings
Est 1818.
a ■* «
HEERIMG
erry brah
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
TEN YEARS OLD.
WENTWORTH HOTEL,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
The Most Luxurious and Comfortable
Hotel in the Southern Hemisphere.
Elegantly appointed, with prompt, efficient
servme and elaborate cuisine, this palatial
and perfectly-conducted modern hotel satisfac-
toniy meets the most exacting demands of
the travelling public.
SPECIAL TERMS.
**
during evening.
Booklet on request.
WENTWORTH HOTEL,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
! Caps
The
Lot
Buchanan's
/ /
E
ite®
m
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, December 28, 1914.
My Dear Arini, —
Tommy Kangaroo lias helped to put a
new tenant in the palace of the Khedive;
‘ nd now, under British over-lordship, the
y. 1 !! 11 proceed to get quite respectable
k u-w U ’ n< there’ll scarcely ever he a
hail ill on the premises. The palace did the
thing magnificently once, and not so long
ago either. When first the European
' c onntaiits g°t to work on the awful litter
ot lOL) s that passed for the Egyptian
treasury they found unpaid bills of Parisian
dressmakers for the mere trifle of £150,000.
years afterwards Lord Cromer—the
distinguished Baring who had the job of
sti {lightening out Egyptian finances—was
invited to take a similar job in Constan-
tinople. Cromer remembered those dress-
makers bills. “Yes,” he replied, “if the
MUtan will agree to the separation of his
personal , accounts from the national
accounts.’ It was such a preposterous
condition that the Englishman never heard
another word about that job.
1 livate Secretary Victor Hood is on his
way back to the Victorian sub-regal men-
agerie. lie went off to see what was doing
in tht‘ Var Office. Hood offered his services
against the common foe in any capacity.
But the capacity of a slender, delicate unit
of humanity isn't up to the standard re-
quired in one who proposes to thump an
enemy of brawn and muscle. So Secretary
Hood will have to sit down peacefully again
behind reams of vice-regal notepaper.
London Timer says that Lieutenant Henry
Talbot is reported missing. He was the
youthful Hussar officer who had a brief
career on the staff of Governor Strickland,
and then went off in a boyish huff to join
the Maegregor's Help department.
Herr Hoggenheimer, lately in a civil job
on the German side of Papua, got iiis
Christmas card too. When Britain took
possession, Colonel Holmes agreed that
civilians drawing Government pay should
be permitted to return to Germany provided
they took their solemnest oath to 'keep their
fingers out of the war pie. Who is going to
see that they do it isn’t specified in the bond.
On account of that omission Attorney-
General Hughes sniffed, and his colleague
I earce sniffed, and the document was sent
on to Britain for perusal. Meantime Herr
Hoggenheimer remained in Sydney and drew
his pay from a Government which will
collect it later from Wi Ilia in. Two days
before the time for eating the Christmas
black-pudding (made, I understand, chiefly
of raisins and pig’s blood), word arrived
that it was all right, and that under the
terms of the agreement Hoggenheimer
might do his solemnest swearing and leave
forthwith. Hogeteetera is mostly nn-
married ; when he isn’t he is to be permitted
to take his wife and family with him.
There is a mention of an Australian man,
A. Staines Manders, as an efficient hon.
organiser of Belgian Flag Day in London.
JLhis outbreak occurred on the fete day of
Belgium’s soldier-king Albert, the 15th of
{November. The bunting was sold for the
benefit of a Belgian orphan fund. As Bel-
gian orphans must be a desolate, innumer-
able throng an orphanage large enough to
hold the stricken babes is likely to cover a
small township. Royal Highnesses and other
social luminaries laid aside their gauds of
rank to help the Australian in his toil.
Did you notice that General J. Maria
Gordon, now on the other side, is vigorously
urging John Bull to bustle compulsory train-
ing into an Act of Parliament, and let the
volunteer system go to—to—well, you have
heard of the place in church !
Two Rhodes scholars from the Jam Island,
who were at Oxford when war’s alarms shook
the universe, have done the usual thing.
Botli C. S. King and Howard were in camp
when our last mail crossed the Channel.
Mrs. A. M. Holroyd, of a well-known Syd-
ney family, was in Hamburg when the
Teuton went bushranging in Belgium. She
was in the enemy’s territory for a few ex-
citing weeks. Then she and her son, Charlie
Holroyd, swam surreptitiously for London.
She returns to N.S.W. per medium of the
Osterley.
Georges Carpentier, the boxing Adonis so
much admired by Parisian women, is serving
with the French Flying Corps. Thus far
his bag includes nothing more formidable
tl*an a big, wolfish-looking dog, Kron Prinz,
which he captured from the enemy. But
he hopes to drop a bomb on the Kaiser one
day.
Wli° are the two Australians, Miss Alice
' a -' au( l Miss Hammond, who are reported
to nave 'enjoyed’' being stopped by bandits
in Yellowstone Park. Colorado? In com-
pany with other tourists they are alleged
to have been stuck up with loaded revolvers
and relieved of their cash and jewellery,
cut the "bandits” were so obliging as to
pose tor the lens at every interesting step in
tie process. A codicil to the effect that
these pictures were eagerly bought by news-
papers casts a doubt over the robbers’ inten-
tions and an air of hilarity over the whole
adventure.
, T itb °P enin g of new surf-dressing
s l^ ds C oogee, the Sydney mermaid may
get out of her street clothes and into her
bnny costume with tolerable comfort. Man is
so littie hampered by his clothes, which do
not fasten at the back and are not tied or
hooked together with fiendish intricacy, that
he can make an impromptu dressing-shed
o any old shelter. But the interminable
nuisance of being a woman follows us to
IraK^ r n ak e erS - Hence the sex’s profound
giatitude for the latest addition to Sydney’s
surfing equipment.
Neverthrfess, the swimmer who likes calm
Wh „t S p ha |> a gHevance. The ladies’
£ i at Hose Bay—once an immense boon
to wayfarers as remote as Darlinghurst—
now “rim • Vol ' t ta bits ’ tin only the ruins
now mnaiu to be wept over by former
bittern’ll ii io niake the grievance more
aa tlle other bathing enclosures round
k-jdney shores, so far as I know, are reserved
tor men or for. “mixed” washers, at any
houi when the city woman finds it possible
to wend her towelled way to the water-front.
Christmas has brought some of the Red
t mss country secretaries to town, where they
have unburdened their souls of four months’
f. /' le p T eminent woe is that a few
h iaVe been nieddfing with so many
! E Mr?' 1 ' 8 that lh cv haven’t been
able to attend properly to one; wherefore
a i! ld elothe ? sent from several remote
Tellvlw r la i Ve been acknowledged by the
.fellyby tube till it was absolutely dunned
tor receipts.
Wags tail Point., where the Wov Woy mos-
<'u't(" Sl f ng ? t 0 tb c moon, has just had a
Jons °r vr tra ,^ d - v of war. The two
sons of Mr. Edward Cox died of
pneumonia in Egypt within a few da vs
O each Other, though they were camped
n different parts of the sandy Pro-
tectorate The Woy Woy branch of the
thron^ a h,V K , h f , r ° x fami] y has come
thiough many tribulations since the gilded
days when Edward Cox owned the Mulgoa
estate of Fernhill. But the loss of their two
fine young sons is the hardest knock Fate
has dealt the Wagstaff Point settlers. On
the bund ay evening a local clergyman, fresh
tiom the death-bed of his own small child
read a memorial service in the fishing-village
halt. When a countryside does get down
into melancholy mood, it deals out misery in
generous hunks So nothing was omitted
iom this dismal ceremony. It was complete
even to the portraits of the brothers, draped
in black.
A son of Dr. and Mrs. Steer Bowker is
(or was) with King Edward’s Horse. He
khak ,an * sb V arsity to hurry into
Hr. T. E. Parker, who is mentioned as
commissioned for service at Woolwich Hos-
tytal (Eng.) is a son of Goulburn’s Metho-
dist Parson, T. Parker.
Mrs. Robinson, formerly Miss Acheson, of
tins town, is in Cornwall, watching the
weary hours go by till hubby returns. He is
rolling about in the North Sea as fleet-sur-
geon on H.M.S. Charybdis.
bas been a bustli ng matrimonial
agent, and engagements are scarcely an-
nounced before the parson is told to get
leady Miss Ena Dulhunty and a naval man
named Burrows were wed almost before the
engagement had been thoroughly aired
amongst their acquaintances. Bluejackets of
IBs Majesty s ships Blank and Dash dragged
the bridal pair in a four-wheeled chariot from
£t. James s Church. The passage via
Boomerang-street was easier than the long
clnnb of the metalled crest of William-street
Dashed with white ribbons, the chaise
rumbled slowly up the long hill, while the
= ,« t 0 V aid: “ What a handsome
; aval persons, in white togs,
with the generally-immaculate appearance of
being something of consequence in the ice-
cream trade, bowled along after the sailor
and his lass.
Flie Christmas Tree, which was introduced
to England as a regular feature by
I mice Albert, the excellent but stodgy
German consort of Queen Victoria, has
been bearing a good crop of fruit
tor charity during the last week or
™°’ J P ai t icular > the tough little urchins
from the Rocks and thereabouts made sub-
stantial hauls through the City Mission’s
efforts in the Town Hall. So far, the an
nual tragedy wherein Santa Claus acci-
dentally makes a bonfire of his beard, hasn’t
this year been recorded. Maybe whiskers
are getting out of date even for the bulky
individual who dispenses Christmas gifts.
xrf: AY. Lax Willeox, the Coonamble grazier
who died the other day in Maoriland, after a
brief illness, was a popular man among
N.S.W. pastoralists. His only daughter, Molly,
died even more suddenly in 1013. The
handsome girl was dressed for a local ball
when she lapsed into unconsciousness, and
passed out in a few hours. Now Dad has
followed, while quite a lot of folks who
could be more easily spared loaf round and
consume the fruits of the earth.
Professor MacCallum and his wife have
returned without any serious adventures in
the enemy’s country. They were in the
Kaiser’s dominions when the war-dogs began
to bark and bite; but as Mrs. Mac is a
German no harm was likely to come to her.
The brilliant MacCallum put in some of his
pre-whisker days in a Teuton ’Varsity, so
he can use the language with fluency,
though it may have in his case a faint
Tartan flavor.
G.-G. Munro Ferguson and Lady Helen
will spend their first New Year’s Day under
the Southern Cross at the Ilie’lan’ Society’s
Gathering, and the pipers are preparing loud
and dreadful noises to welcome the cliiel.
During their Excellencies’ visit to N. S.
AVales they will shelter under the roof of
James Burns, M.L.C., at Gowan Brae,
Parramatta.
Mrs. George Simpson, who used to be
Dorothy Stephen of this town, is now set-
tling happily in her airy nest on the heights
of Simla. Mr. Simpson, as you may re-
member, was one of the British scientists
who came this way in August. His billet is
to make up the weather in parcels and for-
ward it all over India. In addition to bis
bread-and-butter meteorological job research
he spies out the stars when they flirt across
the heavens.
A Mosman man named Melbourne Rhodes
has flung in his lot with the Sportsman’s
Battalion, R’y’l Fusiliers.
Mr. A. It. Nott and his daughter are on
board the Otway, booked for home and
Sydney.
Dr. Clive Pitt, who first used a stetho-
scope in Sydney, is one of the recent ap-
pointments on the staff of the famous London
Hospital for youngsters in Great Ormoiul-
streec.
Pianist Laurence Godfrey Smith has put
away music for six weeks’ holiday. The
time is to be divided between three station
homesteads, one of them in the Moonbeyan
ranges. I believe this . Rider Ilaggardisb
name belongs to some hills beyond Tam-
worth. The Sydney musician has a lurking
passion for hoofs and horns and the flavor
of fresh air. He once put in a long holiday
on Jack London’s Californian ranch, Glen
Ellen, and a holiday under the strenuous
London’s roof is something to be spoken of
with bated breath. The United States writer
lets off his superfluous energy by practising
new and fascinating ways of very nearly
breaking his neck.. He was trying his hand
at driving a four-in-hand up and down pre-
cipices when L. G. Smith was with him.
"Rosna’s” line from London;—
Men of the Australian Expeditionary Force are to
be honorary members of the Union Jack Club while
they are here. The Union Jack, a barn of a place,
was built in memory of the men who fell in the big
S’African unpleasantness, and members can get a
comfy bed for the not-exorbitant sum of a shilling
a night. An Australian she-committee is also bent
on providing’ a place in London where Tommy
Kangaroo can write his letters, see the papers, and
meet Australia Jane. The High Commissioner’s
committee is another active agent; it has in hand
about £lO,OOO, a few motor ambulances and a
great many unnecessary and lumbersome garments;
and, finally, Vie. Agent-General Mcßride’s damsel
Catherine has raised £l5O to buy cigarettes and
tobacco for Tommy from the South—and a much-
talked-about Tommy he is these times.
Immense physical strength is one of the
assets of the Russian nurse. One of the
Czar’s Nightingales, a Miss Timashenko,
carried a wounded officer from the firing-
line to the nearest field hospital. If the
British peeresses who are getting themselves
disliked in Flanders could rub up their
muscle by physical culture, the ordinary
trained nurse might give them something
to do in emulating the Russian woman’s
feat. Some means will certainly have to
be devised to make the wealthy, well-mean-
ing busybodies really useful, if they persist
in rushing Red Cross work.
Christmas shopping, which had not been
so feverish as usual, took a turn some days
before December 25 ; and soon there was an
orgy of brown-paper parcels and tired throngs
of heated parents led by battalions of light
infantry. Regiments of women with a
parched expression and both arms full of
luggage and Saratoga trunks, lined up,
in faith, outside leading tea-rooms. Even
the elegant person in uniform who is usually
obeyed when he waves a light cane and says,
‘ Move on, ladies,” was thrust aside as a
mere ordinary wisp of humanity. So busi-
ness took a rosy hue.
The French-Australian League of Help
met foi the first time last week. Consul
( hayet took the chair at the preliminary
talk at the Australia. The idea is to prod
all French citizens in N. S. Wales into ar
organised effort to secure funds for French
Ited Cross work and extra comforts for .Tear
Jacques. The principal speaker was H. Y
Braddon, who pleaded for Australian cash
to help Francois.
Kennerley Rumford, the long and beauti
ful husband of Clara Butt, is going to the
jagged old Front. Rumford is a fine, up-
standing Briton, and his ’listing will make
him more popular than ever with the concert
loving public if he brings his melodious
voice safely home aeain. The Daily Chron-
icle opines that the singer’s example will
put fresh courage into the waverers who still
hang round London clubs. Rumford has
been singing Begbie’s recruiting song, “Fall
In” (music by Frederic Cowen), in all the
North of England manufacturing towns.
Now is showing how it is done. In his
youth Kennerley meant to take to firearms
as a profession, and had that in view during
two years’ study in Paris. He studied the
war-on-paper in Berlin and Frankfurt; but
in the end the vocal call was too tempting.
Miss Dorothy King, a grand-daughter of
the late Mrs. Robert Thorne, is engaged.
The man is an American actor, I understand,
but his name hasn’t come my way at date
of gumming this up.
Galician peasant women, as they pose
for the war correspondent’s camera, appear
to be the first word in female fashion. (The
last word is the little more than the airy
nothing we see at a big race-meeting.) The
Galician has no sense of form or color. She
is the connecting- link between the Garden of
Eden pre-shopping era and an Eskimo
all-over-heavy clothing depot. She puts her
corrugated-iron countenance into a woollen
bag with ends that nearly throttle her
windpipe. Her tub-like circumference is
surrounded by a short, heavy skirt and a
white apron. Over this solid upholstery
goes a shapeless jacket. Whatever other
accident may happen to him, Ivan is at any
rate not likely to lose his heart while he
pounds the enemy in Galicia.
liyde can pat itself gently on its expan-
sive back. Its council is one of the very
few which have sent an alderman to the war.
The trouble with most aldermen is that they
have sent themselves too far to the front to
be of much service as warriors ; but Aider-
man S. Herring probably hasn’t been long
enough in municipal life to develop those
fleshly habits.
Yours affectionately,
VANDIRIAN.
“Smiler” Hales is busy, as of old, with his
Purple Patches in the English papers. For
example :—•
General Pan loves the peasant tillers of the soil;
he knows their lives, their love of the land that
bred them, and he will fight like a devil unchained
to defend or avenge them. And they all love him.
To them his fiery valor speaks for safety; t’-ey would
follow him to the hobs of Hell and over the ashes,
and he and they will remember all that this most
C hristian Kaiser has done, and is doing, to them;
doing it too —the smug hypocrite!—in the name of
God and liberty. Jesu rnio! How they hate liim
now_! I remember how he rode through 'our Empire
Capital with a smile on his false face, bowing his
thanks to our people’s loudly acclaimed welcome:
and whilst he smiled his wolf’s heart was itching
within him, itching with well-concealed longing to
be at our throats.
“Chudah” : Colonel Monash, officer in com-
mand of the latest Expeditionary Force pre-
pared in Melbourne, is an esteemed Hebrew
citizen, engineer by profession, intensely
devoted to military study for years past.
His _ connection with the Contingent gave
special Sclat to the Chanucah Festival just
held in St. Kilda Synagogue. Hitherto the
( hanucahs have been far more remarkable
in the Sydney Great Synagogue than in Mel-
bourne. (Chanucah is the Feast of Judas
Maccabeus, who delivered Jerusalem about
1-0 b.c., as related in the Books of Macca-
bees. Without Maccabeus there would
probably have been no Christianity. Any-
way, Jerusalem would have gone as com-
pletely as it did under Titus, a.d. 70.) The
feature of the St. Kilda Chanucah was a
military display, with Monash in command.,
of 80 Jewish soldiers, including- 12 officers;
and a very striking lot they were.
“Singemoine”: The cables say that John
Hays Hammond, of the U.S., has invented a
projectile which sprays molten lead on the
enemy and then smothers him. I know
John, and, to put it mildly, he is an opti-
mist. Fie would have made a good bagman,
or press-agent, or picture-show spruiker; but
he finds it more profitable to be a mining
engineer. He is imaginative. His bump of
self-opinionativeness is not so much a hump
as a hill. Roosevelt is a modest daisy by
comparison. Hammond spent a lot of 'time
in S’Africa in the employ of the Barnatos,
and left in disorder, after nearlv getting
hanged in connection with the Jameson raid.
I.ook him up in “Who’s Who” and you will
get an idea of his type. He fills as much
space as Sir Edward Grey, Asquith. French
and Kitchener combined. Among other
things, he boasts of belonging to 20 clubs.
He doesn’t add that nearly all of them are
rotten. Looking at the matter all round, I
haven t implicit faith in this alleged inven-
tion of his.


HARDY BROTHERS LIMITED
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
A GIFT FOR THE NEW YEAR.
HARDY BROTHERS’ MAGNIFICENT DISPLAY OF
DIAMOND AND GEM ORNAMENTS AFFORDS PUR-
CHASERS THE OPPORTUNITY OF SELECTING FROM
THE VERY LATEST DESIGNS. INSPECTION INVITED.
Pearl and Diamond
Drop Necklet,
£.165.
Old Jewellery
Remounted
and
Remodelled in the
Latest Designs.
Illustrated
Catalogue
Sent
Post Free
on Request.
Diamond Crossover Ring 1 ,
£lO5.
Diamond Cluster Ring:,
WE WOULD LIKE TO CALL THE ATTENTION OF
QUEENSLAND READERS TO THE FACT THAT OUR
BRISBANE BRANCH HAS JUST BEEN COMPLETELY
RENOVATED AND ENLARGED, AND IS NOW CARRYING
A MUCH LARGER AND MORE COMPREHENSIVE STOCK
THAN IN THE PAST.
13 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY ; 116-118 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
LONDON AGENCY: 32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET W.
JOin, Desk Dan.
SILENT,
EFFICIENT,
RELIABLE.
I2in. Desk ran.
DESK,
CEILING and
WALL FANS.
STOCK TYPES OF
DIRECT CURRENT FANS.
J6in. Desk Fan.
Australian Metal Co. Ltd.
40-2 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
172-6 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
Gilbert Place,
ADELAIDE.
v
&
& '
m
.
Hotelkeepers
and Caterers
A Bright and Prosperous
New Year to you !
It will be yours without a
doubt if you have installed a
NELSON Carbonator.
OWING TO INCREASED TARIFF there is stronger reason
than ever why von should install without delay. Why pax away big
money to the manufacturers when you can make better Aerated Waters
for a fraction of the cost?
There is big, profitable business to bo done in Soda Water. ITero
is a recipe that will make 10 gallons. Compare it with what you pay now.
PURE WATER lOfjals.
CARBONIC GAS lib. .
Cost Nil
Cost 6(1.
Thoroughly mix by agitation for five minutes, then bottle. '
For sixpence you will make 24 dozen Split Soda bottles, which would cost you from the manufacturers
1 "These" are indisputable facts—which prove the tremendous profit-making medium a Nelson
( ‘ nl> The to initial ll 'cost is the only one, and you very quickly win that hack. We have priced our
Carbonators down very low. when it is considered that they are absolutely the most leliable ami
efficient kind on the market. ■ , . ~ . , ,
'Hie machine illustrated above is the famous 1914 RANKER —the machine that has heicl
many hotelkeepers along the road to success. . tttrfe
It waits to be your helper. This BANKER makes crisp, snappy Aerated Wa er w T I khli
MINUTES. The Price for the plant complete is LOWER THAN ANY COMPETiNG MACHIN -•
Make a good start for the New Year. Bottle your own Mineral Waters Get a ftoda-watei
Installation for Bar Use, and he among the progressive and successful men who are enjoyin„ the
benef Write t u e s ir at en o t nce r for fuller information-get on the track right away. There’s big money to
he made, so get into it without delay.
NELSON’S Carbonating Co. Ltd.
219 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Or through our Distributing Agents for
Victoria, S. Australia & W. Australia,
Messrs. SUTHERLAND & CO.,
632-4 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
HAPPY NEW YEAR!”
“All who joy would win, must share it;
Happiness was born a twin.”
THERE certainly would be much happiness and rejoicing-
in the family if you started the New Year with a
new piano. The old piano has been a pretty good
one, but it has stood a long siege from each member of the
family, now all can play it would be wise to give
them a really good instrument.
THE BROADWOOD”
has been England's Favorite Piano
for Over Two Hundred Years.
You and your family would be equally fond of it —for it is
a very fine instrument, built by experts with true artistic
instinct, with genuine solicitude for quality and a fine
feeling for tone and touch. The whole world possesses no
finer specimen of piano manufacture than the w ßroadwood/
WE CAN SELL FOR CASH
OR TERMS TO SUIT YOU.
When you come to town, make a point of calling and
seeing our latest models. In the meantime, send for
Illustrated Catalogue and Prices to
The British Piano Depot Ltd.,
Temporary Address- —3B Market Street, Sydney
(OPPOSITE HENRY BULL’S).


g
To Re-color
GREY HAIR
THE ONLY EFFECTIVE AND GUARAN-
TEED PERMANENT HAIR COLORING.
Loss of Hair Coloring is one- of the most, distressing problems
thai maii or woman lias to faee. yet may be overcome finite easily
by Hie application of “Ineito” —the only perfect Hair Coloring.
“Inrcto”, completely permeates the hair structures and becomes part
of the hair itself: it will withstand damp, can be shampooed, docs
not come out on the brush, or soil the linen, and imparts a glossy appearance that defies detection.
Wo can recommend “Tnecto” to restore Grey Hair to its natural coloring. A single application
only is necessary, and full instructions are given with each bottle. “Tnecto” is made up in small
quantities, which prevents waste, for after being once exposed to the air, chemical change renders
it useless.
r
Farmer <£• Company Limited are Sole
Agents for “Inecto ” in N.S.W., and are
prepared, to supply the Trade. Quota-
tions for quantities on application.
Trial Box (No. Bl) of two Bottles 3/6
Trial Box (No. B 2) of eight; Bottles 12/6
We ray the Carriage.
Farmer’s, Sydney
Pitt, Market and George Streets.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, December 28, 1014.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Kona Id \\ att (known to the Smart Set
as "Duke”) is engaged to Madge Clarke,
i on can see her picture in the show cases of
all the fashionable photogranhers in Aiel-
hourne, so I won’t detail her appearance.
She is related both to the absurdly-affluent
Deaths and to the ridiculously-well-to-do
Darlings? while Ronald has curly hair and
blue eyes. What could you wish for more?
A wool-buyer by trade, he has devoted 'pro-
found thought to hunting, and he would as
soon think of jumping on a hound, or hack-
ing a kicker up against one of the whips, or
poisoning a lox, as lie would of remarking
Ilocli der Kaiser” in Collins-street. They
intend to live the simple life, whatever that
means. Presumably she will bring home the
cauliflower under her arm and the string
bag full of onions, while he traps rabbits.
“The Messiah,” by a Philharmonic Society,
was one of the mournful events of the
allegedly festive season. It occurred on
Wednesday, in the Town Hall, and appears
to have been instigated chiefly by “Bunny”
Zelman. Under happier circumstances he
plays ragtime tunes on the lawn at race-
meetings. To get to “The Messiah” after this
was rather like leaving a Salon de Danse for
a morgue. The ladies of the chorus wore
white robes - the men were garbed like crows
or mutes. Elsa Warm an subdued her
natural exuberance as much as possible for
the soprano role. The Gregor-AVood pair
were tenor and contralto respectively, and
Horace Stevens baritoned with admirable
vigor. Steele was at the organ. Steele
pretty well owns the Town Hall organ. It
leeds out of his hand and comes when he
calls to it, like a pet elephant.
The latest Australian war-song comes
from Dinsdales’, and is entitled “Australia
‘Will be There.” The sentiment tits the situ-
ation, and the song has the right marching
swing. Bandmaster Copp, of the 13th In-
fantry, has informed the publishers that the
hoys have adopted it as a war ditty, aftey
trying it on the public when they paraded
in Melbourne the other AA 7 ednesday. Copp’s
little lot featured it whilst passing the G.-G.
at saluting point.
Miss Sumner Lock, the festive little Aus-
iralienne who went to Britain and found a
market for her novelettes, is back in
Melbourne for a while looking as brown as
a gipsy and as nippy as a jar of pickles.
She has a sick mother to think about at pre-
sent, but her mind is busy with melodrama
plots all the time. Her maiden effort in
play writing was produced at the Princess’s
by an amateur co. ere she went away, and
she is bound to be heard of in stage circles
n due course.
Florence Rodway, the pastellist, has no
peace even in her native Tasmania, where she
is holiday-making. A family of four who
are visiting the Apple Island have asked to
he “done,” and she is complying for all she
is worth.
The Castles people are a truly domesti-
cated crowd. Consequently there was great
rejoicing because, for the first time in years,
they were all under the family roof-tree this
Christmas. All, that is. but plump little
Eileen, who is working hard in N’York.
Colonel AValter ATnour is dead. He fell
in S’Africa early in November, and the
Bartons (whose son-in-law he was) saw the
news first in an English paper.
Henry Parker, formerly Chief Justice of
AYestralia, ate his Christmas dinner at the
-Agar AA 7 ynne sheep run. His daughters,
Mildred and Dolly, stayed for the holidays
with the Herbert Powers.
The Edward Carlyle knight and his dame
have temporarily lost their only son, Hilary.
He is off to the battlefield as a lieutenant-
surgeon.
I read that Lord Beauchamp had been
injured in a motor smash at Birmingham.
Why not in a shell-smash at the front? This
picturesque young man is just the sort that
should be leading a cavalry charge, or
volunteering for a forlorn hope. Many of
Australia’s ex-Governors, by the way. are
taking a hand. Lord Denman is with one
Territorial force and Lord Dudley with
another.
At a Christmas concert in the Audi-
torium on Friday night Kirby sang “Waft
Her Angels” so divinely that the house for-
gave him for being a welterweight. Per-
haps, after all, too much has been said
about Walter’s generous condition. It is
unreasonable to expect both Soul and the
tense leanness of a tiger in the one frame.
The entertainment was pleasing in other
respects. Miss Treweek, Fred Collier and
Gladys McDowell sang. Margery Grey
played the violin in her customary pensive
manner, and Hal Elvins handled the piano.
Mrs. AVithers is showing some of her late
husband Walter’s pictures in Collins-street,
at Robb’s Buildings. Some of the water-
colors are fine. AVithers was a fastidiously-
finished artist who dwelt in dreamland while
hi l worked hard. His wife was the ‘’busi-
ness man" of the liapp.v partnership, and to
her fell the duty of hanging and arranging
the pictures when a show was held ; so she
is in her element sorting and showing the
precious stuff that remains.
A great old identity, Charles Watt, has
passed out. He spent his last days on his
own place. Upotipon station, but was iden-
tified from earliest times with Robertson
and Wagner, the big coach-owners and sta-
tion-holders. Stoniugton used to belong to
a Wagner. It is beginning to crack a bit
now, for want of attention—an outcome of
the temporary nature of its gubernatorial
tenancies; but there was a time when it was
kept as sleek and brushed up as a pet dog.
The son of the deceased Watt lives mostly
in South Yarra. Ilis wife used to be the
slimmest and daintiest rider to the hunt in
earlier days, and they have a granddaughter
who carries on the family tradition. She
can ride anything, and though only five-feet-
nothing was big enough to save a drowning
hunter from the surf the other day when its
man-rider had given up the attempt in de-
spair.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
There was a strong war-flavor about the “Com-
mem.” at Adelaide University ttiis year. Chancellor
Way—marvellously recovered from the recent loss
of his arm—made innumerable speeches, and men-
tioned that over 50 graduates have volunteered, in-
cluding (from the teaching staff) l)rs. Newland,
Wilson and Mainwaring and Professor Watson (who
never misses a war anywhere). Fry, an old Rhodes
scholar, has gone, and Reynell and Morey have got
permission to leave Oxford. But the most curious
case is that of Madigan, who got the Rhodes trustees
to hold his scholarship over for two years while he
went with Mawson to the Antarctic, and has now
induced them to keep on suspending it while he goes
to the war.
Jack Waller —a relative of the divine Lewis him-
self —has taken over the Ayers’ old Adelaide place.
Henry Ayers entertained members of the present
King's suite there 14 years ago, and the aroma of its
past greatness still adheres more or less. (Inci-
dentally, Henry was Premier of S.A. seven times,
including a reign of 13 days and one of 21
days.) Mr. Waller is using the house as
a place of revelry. Music is laid on every-
where, and al fresco suppers are served on the
wide terraces and in the gardens which are lit
(where they are lit) by naughty, soft-colored lamps.
The wowser has already been heard moaning over
this feature of the establishment. A cinnamon-hued
Creole dancer with Eyes and a Voice is the chief
rage. Also, there is a Russian with a fearful name
and fur-trimmed clothes, who directs the orchestra
from the off-side of his moustache while he plays
his violin. He is sleek and cat-like in his move-
ments, and he is a rage also. He is supposed to have
fiddled for the Czar at one period of his career. It
is all very thrilling, and gives you some idea of
what may happen to a city when it abandons horse
cars.
Sassiety is getting brain fag in the effort to
keep up to the intellectual standard of Lady Gal-
way. The British Government is supposed locally
to have sent her here on account of our far-flung
reputation for culture. But the general idea is
that Downing-street hag rather overshot the mark.
The spectacle of elderly climbers whose tastes men-
tally don’t soar higher than Marie Corelli or the
speeches of Joseph Cook reading up translations of
Anacreon, and Ariosto and Lamartine and so on,
for quotation purposes, is saddening.
'Mrs. and Miss Rich, who were on the Maloja, were
met here-by Justice Rich. Mr. Albion Tolley was a
passenger by the same boat. He left his wife and
family behind.
Adelaide has its first motor-’bus, a large, scarlet
affair, like an exceptionally speedy pantechnicon.
It has caused no deaths yet, and the natives are
taking to it with cautious gradualness.
W. R. Bayley, the new headmaster of Prince
Alfred College, was born in Adelaide in ’67 ; came
front the Port Adelaide State School to Prince
Alfred on a scholarship; went to the local Univer-
sity, and became B.A. and B.Se. ; joined the
teaching staff of his old college, and stayed there
for 27 years; went on to Geelong College (Vic.),
and married Miss Dreyer. If 1 find any more ex-
citing news about him I will let you know.
Four new barristers were called on Saturday. They
were A. M. Moulden, wdtose father and grandfatl or
were lawyers before him (he won the David. Murray
Scholarship and the Stow Prize at the University) ;
D. B. Ross, another Stow Prizeman, whose mother’s
people were O’Hallorans, and came here when the
State was still in its callow youth; L. D. Water-
house and Donald Kerr.
Miss Duffield’s estate has been sworn at £50,000,
mostly flourmill money.
There was a fair crowd at the Cheltenham race-
course on Saturday, and Petrolite’s £3O 16s. divi-
dend in (he first race was a pleasing circumstance.
Nothing else of a thrilling nature occurred, and the
frocks, were hardly worth going charing in.
After a fight that has lasted for years the party
which favors lopping off a piece of park to widen
North Terrace has gained a point, and the job is
to be started. Adelaide is so used to vast streets
that if it sees three vehicles within 20ft. of one
another it immediately dreams of a collision, and
wants to do something “to relieve the congestion.”
You remember the yarn about Audrey
Fhirnside driving a motor-ambulance at the
front? It bad swollen so in recent weeks
that people were saying she had had a cap-
tain’s commission specially bestowed on her
by .Toffre. Well, the whole thing is a myth.
li: boils down to the drab fact that Miss
Audrey went to Paris to offer herself and
her oar to the Dudley Hospital, and was
dec-lined with thanks. The French Army
authorities, it appears, take no stock in the
lady shover. The self-sacrificing girl is now
eating her heart out in idleness in a London
hotel. It is feared, locally, that the news
will be a blow to at least three of our
heiresses, namely. Alice McCulloch. Mildred
Manifold and Una McKellar. They had
all packed up cars, drivers’ licenses and
lunc-h hampers ready for use at the front.
Kitchener is probably as much to blame
for this sickening state of things as anyone,
by the way. He thinks females should keep
as far from the limelight of battle as pos-
sible. lie it was who, when asked by a
blue-blooded matron what he found the most
troublesome features of the S’African cam-
paign, responded, “Women and flies,
madam.”
After all the forebodings, shopkeepers say
there never before was such a Christmas.
Money, though tightly held for a while, has
lately been absolutely pushed at them. The
seaside and hill places within 30 miles of
Melbourne are likewise doing a mighty
Christmas trade.
The Williamson pantomime is drawing
freely. More especially is it drawing our
gilded males. There is so much Girl in it,
including some really lovely Dresden-china
types. They look after Cinderella Dolly
Castles when her godmother banishes her
rags and puts her into a lavender silk dress-
ing-room and a pink and swansdown
dressing-gown. Passing this stage, Dolly-Cin-
derella gets into a powdered peruke, a great
many ropes of emeralds and some white
tulle, and looks a dream when she drives
away in her golden chariot.
There are ballets all the time. When
Cinders is in the dark kitchen the pots and
pans and teapots and cups and saucers all
dance. When she is being clothed the
tiring-maids (dozens of ’em) dance. So
does the regiment of pages which brings
various slippers for her approval. And there
is a ballet of bright cerise socks and flesh-
tights which is marvellous to behold.
The palace steps are steep and high and
broad; they are like the flight on which you
climb up to Dr. Charles Strong’s Australian
Church here in Melbourne. But the Doc-
tor never gets a congregation like the one
that throngs these steps. The Maori girls
in their flax mats take the upward path first,
and nation follows nation till Australia, in
blue and wattle and electric-lights and flags
gets the last applause. Celia Ghiloni
makes an impressive, heavy-weight Rule
Britannia, with silver dangles and armor-
plating and Union Jack complete. Celia is
the godmother when she isn’t Rule Britan-
nia. Gertie Latchford puts a pert little
nose into the business. Finally, there is
quite a connected story, which leaves the
audience wondering if it is a pantomime
after all.
The Musicians’ Union refused to take
'lower wages, so “the Firm” has cut out part
of the orchestra. The result is that the
house can at last hear the words of the
songs. Talking of change, how the Yankee
vogue has slumped on the stage to be sure.
On Saturday last there wasn.’t even one speci-
men of Old Glory on exhibit during the big
march (or step-dance) past of the Nations.
The Mayoress’s Patriotic League rested,
prorogued, had a smoke-oh, or whatever else
you choose to call it on Christmas Eve, and
won’t start its labors again till January 4.
Several members of the committee went in
search of mental relaxation, to the panto-
mime at Her Majesty’s. Imagine their
anguish to find the catchiest song in the
show was called “Sister Susy’s Sewing Shirts
for Soldiers.” One chaste line is “Such
saucy, soft, short shirts does shy young
sister Susy sew.” I wasn’t there, but I am
told that the committee made a wild break
for the exit, gibbering their detestation of
the mere thought of either shirts or socks.
They were captured, however, and soothed
with tea by the cherry-ribboned girls in the
comfortable Lounge, and were able to return
afterwards. *
The concert on behalf of the Belgian
Nuns, which was run by Charlotte Hem-
ming, developed into a “hummer.” The
Town Hall was packed. Late-comers offered
to cling to the organ-pipes, or stand on
other people’s heads, on condition they were
allowed in, but the authorities, as I think
rightly, rebuffed them. The places of honor
were occupied by the Mayoress, in gold, and
Mrs. Belgian-Oonsul Lauwers, in pinky red.
The two husbands were in the usual sombre
color, so among them they made something
of a Belgian banner. There was a tremen-
dous programme. Jansen, dressed in golden
armor, sang as persons in armor are sup-
posed to sing. Gull played and looked like
Chopin, and Maude Harrington sang, and
so did Hector Goldspink, whose tenor is
clear and hard as a bell. Mtes Coy and
Louis Ilattenbaeh were other draws, and
the house felt it had had its money’s worth
in other than charity.
A firm of solicitors has published a mani-
festo or proclamation in the papers men-
tioning tersely that £lOO will be paid for
information leading (o the discovery of
those who have been accusing Schweppes
Ltd. of being a German firm. It appears
that the original Schweppes was a Swiss,
and that only 25 shares in the big co. is
held in an enemy country. The guiding
spirit of Schweppes’ and the biggest share-
holder is C. I). Kemp-Welch, whose huge
place near Ascot is one of the features of
the countryside. He has been accused of
being the Bun Emperor of Robert 1 lichen’s
farcical novel, “The Londoners.” The
Bun Emperor, in this book lets his Ascot
home to a smart party for race-week, and
immediately repents, and, connecting a
cottage near-by with the butler’s pantry
by telephone, learns with rage of the
goings-on of the smart-setters. Ilichens
is said (probably by people who don’t know
anything about it) to have written this as
a means of chaffing the Ivemp-Welchs, who
are relatives of his. Not that they are
Philistines, by any means. Miss Lucy
Kemp-Welch. the famous animal painter,
is a daughter of the man who gets most
of his money from the thing that the un-
regenerate mix with their alcohol.
Miss Joan Morton, who is well known to
Government House frequenting racegoers
hereabouts, has just passed through on her
way to Egypt. Mrs. Peter Kabbett hap-
pened to be going to see her son Bex, who
is a Major with the Expeditionaries, and
she asked the young woman to come along
too. They will be back in about four
months.
“Eye-Witness,” whose observations at
the front are always being cabled out to us,
is now definitely and officially proclaimed
to be Earl Percy, son and heir of the Duke
of Northumberland. A whole cloud of
mystery and romance hovers over this per-
sonage. lie was said last year to have
mortally offended Winston Churchill. The
next thing London knew he was lying sick
unto death in Paris. The papers issued
bulletins, almost daily, of his progress, but
refrained from saying what was wrong with
him. A story got afoot presently that he
and Churchill had fought a duel, and, like so
many of these yarns, it declined to lie down
again. It was told me, months and months
ago, by an A.D.C. with a genius for gossip,
and for all I know is still alive and hearty.
Talking of titled persons, young Henniker
Ileaton, the heir to the baronetcy achieved
by the postal enthusiast, is with our Expedi-
tionaries. He had been in Australia—partly
in Melbourne and the rest of the time in
Sydney—for about six months when the war
broke out, and having nothing better on at
the moment, hastened to offer himself. He
was here with his pretty wife when they
first married. She was a daughter—the
only one, in fact—of Lord Gwydyr, the aged
peer who died the other day.
Miss Norah Anderson, a daughter of the
late Orient functionary, and a sister of the
beautiful Mrs. Beerbohm, who stayed with
the Bussell Clarkes last year, is at tin* Dud-
ley Hospital as a nurse. She is one of a
dozen Melbourne and Sydney girls who are
patriotically toiling there.
Yours sincerely,
JONANNA.
H. E. Barff, the courteous, kindly old
Registrar of Sydney University, has been
elevated to the position of Warden. He will
attend senate meetings and make sugges-.
tions and give advice, but he won’t, have a
vote in the august body. The new position
is due to the appointment of a Chief Justice-
Lieutenant Gov. as Chancellor. The C.J.-
ship ought to provide sufficient work for one
man, though the Lieut.-Governancy might
be possible as a side-line. But when the
management of the Uni. is added to those
jobs, things are overcrowded.
Mostly about a gas bubble :■ —
Jim Larkin, now practising Treason in U.S.A.,
held the eye of London for a day or two. About a
year ago he tripped over in connection with the
Dublin strikes. His strong- suit turned out to be
personal unc-leanliness, and he talked in a howl.
Many of the super-intellectuals, such as Chesterton,
Orpen, Shaw and Augustus John, bored possibly by
the ordinary politician, affected to regard him as
a miracle; and the Daily Herald, which is mostly
Bill Dyson, decided to star him. The Albert Hall
was taken. By the time the great night of the
meeting arrived, Shaw was wrangling with Larkin
tor first call on the limelight. Shaw won and
stepped forward. Instantly there was a roar for
Dyson; and Dyson it had to be. Larkin*,completely
overshadowed, passed back'd:! Dublin next "das, and
London forgot all about him,
Henry Benjamin Hinton, reputedly the
oldest living medico in the British Empire,
is hanging on tenaciously to life at Adelaide,
He is, on the best reckoning available,
approaching his 102nd birthday, and is an
inmate of a private hospital which he entered
two years ago, after accidentally falling and
fracturing his thigh. Dr. Hinton served as
military surgeon through the Indian Mutiny
and the Burmese and China campaigns. Just
before celebrating his century he said he
would go another five years. Not
unlikely he will keep his promise. He reads
books and magazines with zest, and devours
the war news before he sits down to break-
fast.
Before the war broke out some London
papers were saving it up for Sir John
Brunner, M.P. and P.C., partner of Sir
Alfred Moritz Mond, M.P. and P.C., and
President of Britain’s precious “National
Liberal Association!’ They are giving it to
him now. It seems that when in Novem-
ber, 1913, the Nat. Lib. Fed. delegates met
at Leeds to carry a vote of protest against
any further expenditure on the Navy, their
high priest Brunner cried : “Thank God!’’
After which he wrote to certain journals,
suggesting that the British Government
should be talked into avoiding further ex-
pansion of expenditure for armaments.”
“The Premier,” said the Anglo-German
Brunner, “has not even to take the initia-
tive. He has only to follow the pood
example set by Germany:' If ever the
history of the Peace party in England and
Australia comes to be written, it will be
found that its most active spirits had Ger-
man connections, social, commercial or poli-
tical, and that the legs of the leaders were
pulled from Berlin.
“B” throws out a hint:—
In its struggle to find the cash to pay Bill his
dirt money, and, in short, to generally give everv-
body (of the right kind) a good time, the Holman
Government might do worse than look up some of the
old history of N. S. Wales. For instance, there was
that row between Gipps and the Council. On the
Estimates for 1843 Gipps placed a sum to cover the
rationing and other support of the prisoners in
Darlinghurst; then newly erected. The Council
struck out the items on the ground that the money
should come out of the Imperial military vote, and
not out of local taxation. Gipps reinserted the
items, and again the Council struck them out. 'Gipps
insisted and forwarded a. report to Stanley, Secretary
of State for the Colonies. In the report he argued
that if a concession was made to the Council on the
item of Darlinghurst., it would have to be extended
to all gaols and become an intolerable burden to
England. Stanley agreed with Gipps, and in his
dispatch advised the Governor, if the Council would
not yield, to let the prisoners out after doing a
short -part of their sentences. Stanley’s words were:
“To expedite, as far as public safety permitted, the
pardon of prisoners.” As prisoners still cost money,
there seems a large-sized hint hidden somewhere here.


\
z
a
JJ
Imperml
&
dew
imwo
Si
The Spirit of Friendship


We invite you to buy a box of “ De
Reszke” Cigarettes and compare them
with any brand you please. Their quality
will appeal to you.
Deßeszke
'rrctfj Ctf"
PILES.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF.
LEMOLAC FOR PILES stops all irrita-
tion at once. Reduces Swelling.
Cures. NOT ONE FAILURE. Money
Back if not effective. 3/6 at all Chemists, or post free from
THE LEMOLAC CO., 178 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
DANIELL
HOTEL;
BRISBANE
POLITICAL
POINTS
The new tariff of £2 per dozen quarts
ought to give Australian champagne a leg-
up. Penfold’s, with a big vineyard and
cellars on the hill-slopes behind Adelaide,
find the soil there just right for everything
except sparkling wines; wherefore the firm
lately gave £50,000 or thereabouts for Min-
chenbury (N.S.W.), which has been getting
gold medals in London, for years past for its
champagne. Now all that has to be done
is to persuade the frequently-snobbish Aus-
tralian who can afford champagne to drink
what has not come over a wharf. Time
will do it. Twenty years ago it was not
“quite the thing” to ask one’s friends to
drink; any “colonial” wine; now—in
Adelaide, at any rate —hardly any other is
ever seen, champagne always excepted/ The
raw material of the fizzy drink is to be bottled
and matured in both States. Leo Buring is
manager at Minehenbury, and Adelaide has
one Bernier, who used to be in the Goulet
cellars in the old original French champagne
country.
THE ROUTE.
HOLMAN: “ Itchet to London, quick!"
VOICE : “Any particular route, sir?"
HOLMAN : “ Yes! I wish to avoid the heal of
the Referenda and the Totalisator question."
It now appears that the Y/heat-Buying
Government of N.S.W. has fallen into two
large holes and a number of small ones.
One of the large holes is that it has formed
itself into a combination in restraint of
trade. The other is that it has trodden
with sightless hoofs on that clause of the
Federal Constitution which provides for
absolute freedom of commerce among
States.
SOME NEW YEAR WISLLES
[FOB THE BULLETIN.]
The moan of starving cattle,
The glare of brassy skies,
The Darling is a mud-hole,
The Murrumbidgoe dries;
Our lakrs are blazing phantoms,
And War is drawing near—
I wish we had the Old Rhine,
T wish we hail it here.
1 wish I had the show peak
And had the mountain wall —-
They do no good in Europe;
They do no good at all.
I'd set them up in Queensland,
Along the Condamine;
I’d clear the Darling country,
And flush it with the Rhine.
Oh ! had it been in China —
In China, old and strange—
They’d long have locked the Darling,
And built the mountain range;
They’d dig a sea to build it,
Where we can’t float a scow;
But we’d take ten times longer
To lock the river now.
They’ve gone to loaf till April,
The Parliamentary crew,
Who drive their little nails in
And draw their rusty screw.
I wish we had a Kaiser,
I wish we had a Czar,
I wish we had a bloomin’ Chow
To alter things that are.
(The Empress of old China would
Soon fix up things that are.)
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
LIVER and kidneys
REGULATED BY DR. MORSE’S INDIAN
ROOT PILLS. SAYS DARLINGIIURST
NURSE.
“I can say,” writes Nurse Mary Ann
Rostock, of 224 Palmer Street, Darlingliurst,
“that Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a
good medicine for the regulation of the liver
and kidneys. In my capacity as nurse ex-
tending over 40 years I have frequently
recommended these pills to my patients, and
know that they have derived considerable
benefit from their use. You have my con-
sent to use this testimony for publication.’” 11
A Melbourne man with a large family
writes to the Age suggesting a tax on
bachelors over 25. The Bulletin suggests,
also, a cumulative tax on the women who
won’t entertain the stork; a 50 per cent,
levy on all self-advertisers; a fixed duty on
puff pars, and invitations to "Awake!
Arise!”; and low rates for “also spokes”
and “also rails.” After that there might be
a tax on J’s.P., fat-headed councillors and
unpaid busybodies generally.
The Cable Syndicate reports that “deep
regret is felt in Imperial circles at the scene
in the Commonwealth Parliament, when Mr.
J. Cook came into collision with the Speaker
and was suspended. “We always expect lead-
ers to exhibit sufficient tact to avoid colli-
sion with the Chair.' says a famous Imperial-
ist.” This expectation on the part of the
"famous Imperialist” merely shows that "Im-
perial circles” know nothing of the nagging
meanness of .1. Cook in Opposition.
THE KAISER'S INDISPOSITION.
THE DEFENDER OF THE BED CHAMBER:
“Whal is the real trouble with his Royal
Nibs ? ”
COURT PHYSICIAN : “ Officially , a throat com-
plaint. Between ourselves, and vulgarly
speaking, he's bitten off more than he can
chew."
One good thing about Lloyd George’s
income tax scheme is that it will hit the
absentee Australian landlord, and make him
hand over some of his spoils to the Cold
Country Treasury as well as to the
Commonwealth. Still, no right-thinking
absentee should object to pay twice for the
inestimable privilege of living away from
Australia.
The Scaddan Government admits to a
loss for the year of over £2700 on its meat-
selling and meat-shipping businesses, and
the Auditor-General faintly suggests that
the loss might be more if the accounts were
kept differently. It is the same old loss
which seems to trudge like 1 a faithful hut
footsore hound in Scaddan’s footsteps. The
trouble in at least two States is that Public
Enterprise is almost dead. It has been
mostly replaced by Party Enterprise, which
is the great art of finding well-paid billets
for people who may be expected to support
the Government for fear that any other
Ministry should abolish the billets. The old
English placeman of the Bubb Doddington
type has been revived in a new form —only
his name nowadays is Bill, not Bubb.
Maorilanders generally manage to find a
way to brighten up political meetings, so a
small thing that happened at Tomoana just
before election day is scarcely worth men-
tioning. The candidate had been taking his
gruel well enough. but the chairman
reckoned that the proceedings called for his
interference. Hurling himself through the
crowd, he singled out an interrupter and
punched chips off him. Then the meeting
adjourned while the chairman was frog-
marched down to the river and tossed in.
After that everybody was satisfied, and the
candidate paid for the drinks.
A hint was given last week of one of the
probable effects of the intrusion of the soul-
less Yankee Meat Trust into Australia. The
War Office had bought a consignment of
Australian tinned beef for the use of men
whose proper feeding is a matter of the
greatest national importance; and Australia
has to suffer the disgrace of learning that
the tins are loaded with such rubbish that
the War Office has condemned the lot. Then
it turned out that the consignment was
bought from a United States firm. Pre-
sumably we shall hear more about it; but
nobody will be surprised to find out that
the soulless Yankee Meat Trust is so
anxious to make money that the good name
of Australia is a thing of absolutely no
consequence to it.
The result of the general elections in
Maoriland seems to be a dead heat between
Massey and those who seek his gore. “Forty
all” is the latest score, hut there appears to
be some doubt about one of the Maori seats
(there are four). This particular son of
the soil has apparently been elected after
maintaining a blank silence about his party
complexion. Thus Ihe immediate fate of
parties rests in his hands; and Ileriare is
going to be a very happy man during the
next week or two. In the meantime Ward,
who has visions of being able to again take
a front place at the pawnbrokery, is loudly
shouting for Massey to explain what he is
going to do. Up to the time of writing that
bewildered agriculturist has been looking
for his second wind and feebly murmuring
that he “intends to play the game.” The
most probable happening will be the sum-
moning of Parliament in a few weeks. Then
if Ward can handle the elusive Henare, and
if the House re-elects Lang to the Speaker-
. ship, out will go the Masseyites and in will
leap Joseph.
One of the greatest victories gained by the Allied
Armies has been the elimination of disease in their
ranks. Messrs. Pearson’s Antiseptic Co. Ltd., manu-
facturers of the well-known disinfectants, Hycol and
Pacocol, are aiding this °oocl work by supplying the
British, French and Belgian Red Cross Societies
with free suoplies of their products during the
■currency of the war.*
The absentee land tax is doing its woik
all right; it is persuading the absentee eithei
to come home or sell out and let somebody
else make a home. In S Australia m the
last 10 years the number of resident liuiu-tax
pavers inis increased from .">7,860 to ibju;
but the number of absentees has dwindled
vear by year from 673 to 377. And plainly
even those who are still hanging on are not
hanging on with the old grip, since the
average amount paid per absentee has shrunk
in the 10 years from £4 12s. (id. to t- Us. od.
‘•Pink Tape": The N.S.W. Public Service
is much exercised over a circular issued m
the Lands Office, with the countenance, it is
alleged, of the Minister and the Public Ser-
vice Board ! The circular states that sev-
eral officers in the Department who are
German born or bred, and whose sympathies
lie with the Germans, are much annoyed by
"indiscreet'" remarks made by other members
of the stall, and it is the wish of the Under-
secretary and of the Board that these
“indiscreet” conversations should cease. It
seems a waste of time to me. Why not fire
the dashed Australians?
Sydney Telegraph celebrated Christinas
Day by walloping its Private Enterprise
joss and throwing sweets to the Socialistic
tiger. The War Office has just condemned
a consignment of N. S. A ales tinned beef,
purchased through a l nited States firm :
and Agent-General Coghlan has cabled that
his own expert thoroughly agrees with the
War Office. Thereupon, faced with the fact
that Private Enterprise is trying to make
a dishonest penny by feeding the army with
rubbish and charging prime-meat prices for
it, the Telegraph demands that the tiger
shall be put in charge of the joss, and that
no meat shall he permitted to leave Aus-
tralia without the Government certificate.
During the Maoriland election campaign
Premier Massey’s party had a rough time
dodging questions about the prices of wheat
and flour. Usually, when the enemy was bom-
barding the perspiring candidate, a telegraph
boy would rush in and a message would be
handed to the speaker from Massey explain-
ing what he was doing about the immediate
importation of millions of bushels of grain
from Siam and Iceland. This wire was read
out by the candidate as an effective reply to
the enemy, and a stampede was then made to
discuss the advisability of building a bridge
at Orepuki. The dodge was worked so hard
that at last the appearance of a boy with a
telegram merely produced shrieks of delighted
laughter.
RATHER COOL.
It is understood that two meetings of bookmakers
were held last week, and that it was decided to take
up a subscription to defend their case.
BOOKIE : “Could yer gif me someaings fo help
me fight der public?”
One of Peacock’s supporters was quite
unnecessarily frank and explicit after the
leader had introduced his Price of Foods
Bill—a measure which is merely to continue
the existence of the Prices Board without
giving it any authority to fix prices. Said
Oman, M.Jj.A. : “I will vote against the Bill
unless the Government assures me it will
not be enforced.” Some men would have
resented the insult; but Peacock laughed
the loud laugh. He is used to it.
On the question of the Totalisator the
N.S.W. Government says it won’t, and the
public is beginning to say plainly that it
shall. The public said so unmistakably on
a recent Saturday when the United Charities
tested the market, and gathered only £BB6-—-
roughly about one-third of the previous year’s
harvest. One Sydney charity lately an-
nounced that, times being bad, it was going
to be benevolent on an overdraft this Christ-
mas ; and overdraft charity in a vigorous
young country, which won’t collect a totalisa-
tor tax for fear of harming a few useless,
bawling bookmakers is just about the last
possibility in the way of lunacy.
The wheat gamble of the N.S.W. Ministry
is always breaking out in new places. It
is now announced that three of the richest
Private Enterprise firms in Australia —
Dalgety and Co.. John Darling and Son, and
James Bell and Co. —have been appointed
sole agents for buying, selling and handling
wheat in the country. They are to get lfd. per
bushel —probably about £lOO,OOO in all.
which is more than the regular rate;
and with the Government authority for com-
pulsory purchase behind them they should
he able to make a fair profit. It
seems rough on a, lot of small but per-
fectly honest firms that the bread should be
dragged out of their mouths in this fashion
by a Socialistic Government, but what is
the good of complaining?
THE AFTERMATH.
Sydney Telegraph had barely decided to
nail the Vreetrade flag to the mast, whatever
the S. XT. Herald might do, when its friends
the big wool-growers were in trouble through
being unable to sell their clip especially
the sorts that might be worked up into
ladies’ dress material. Then the Telegraph
wailed loudly, and proceeded to show that
Australia would be a much better place
for everybody if it threw overboard the old
Freetrade idea that this country should
merely grow wool and let somebody else
manufacture it. Apparently the Telegraph
has learned the German trick of putting up
an enemy’s flag for tactical reasons and
hauling it down at the first puff of trouble.
Christmas was a great time in N.S.A’V.
In front was the Cockatoo Island artisan,
who was supposed to be toiling with the fire
of patriotism in his bosom to complete the
new ships which are wanted for the defence
of Australia and the Empire. He was
offered double wages if he would work dur-
ing the holidays, but he demanded treble
wages. Not getting them he poured a
bucket of water on the fire of patriotism and
went home. Then at the rear of the picture
was the farmer who has had a miserable
crop, and is ordered to sell the trifle he has
at Is. (id. per bushel below cost (though he
may hire a solicitor and two barristers arid
try his luck at law for a better price), so
that the Cockatoo striker may have an extra
cheap loaf. Incidentally the farmer gets the
new land-tax and the increased railway
charges, so no one can say that Holy Claus
didn't put something in his boots.
Justice Hodges (Vic.) has no wish for the
totalisator; yet he handed out these re-
marks with a sentence for embezzlement
the other day :
The prisoner was not likely to make money out
of bookmakers. Their calling may be legitimate,
but they have to live, and only persons who can
lose money can afford to bet. It is a mistaken idea
to think that one can make money out of book-
makers.
In printing these words of wisdom from the
gentle old lay canon or deputy-howitzer the
ArGUS remarks plaintively: “.Many people
will agree with Mr. Justice Hodges. Yet
they go on trying.” Which seems to imply
that the Argus opposes the tote in the full
knowledge that it is driving men to gamble
with professionals who play with two-
headed pennies.
HAUNTED.
Some members of the Labor party are anxious
that Mr. Fisher should succeed Mr. Reid as High
Commissioner on the expiration of the 12 months’
extension which was recently granted.
—Political intelligence.


THE GLORIOUS BRITISH-BUILT
SAMES PIANOS
UNDOUBTEDLY THE FINEST ENGLISH PIANOS MANUFACTURED.
EVERY detail in the construction of
SAMES Pianos is such that Durability
and Permanent Tone Quality is
ensured. Only the Very Best Material is used
and each instrument is carefully selected and
thoroughly tested by experts; so well are
these Pianos built that we have not the
slightest hesitation in recommending them
for the Australian climate. They will, with
reasonable care, last a lifetime. You may
rest assured a SAMES Piano will give you
every satisfaction. EASY TERMS arranged.
SAMES
Model 93.
This is an ideal Piano
for home use where
great durability is
required. It has a
clear, sweet tone and
light touch, full iron
frame, check action, 7
octaves, ivory keys,
burr walnut case.
Height, 4ft. 3in.
Length, sft. lin.
gd
fg
SAMES
Latest Model 105.
You should see this
model—it is of the
highest possible quality
throughout, remark-
able for the richness
of its tone. Full iron
fra m e, overstrung,
ivory keys, 7 octaves.
Height, 4ft.
Length, sft. 2in.
Sole Agents
THE “life” and wear-resisting qualities of
a Piano depend largely on the many
little details that count most for DURA-
BILITY. Before buying any Piano for the
New Year it is essential that you know of
these important details. If you take our
advice in this regard you will never regret
your choice of a SAMES Piano. Our sixty-
one years’ reputation for selling only Pianos
that we can honestly recommend and guar-
antee is your safeguard. Catalogues are post
free on request. Write for a copy to-night.
dr
SAMES
Model 94.
A splendid example of
up-to-date Pianoforte
building, beautifully
finished, distinctive in
design and of fine tone
quality. Extended
iron frame, overstrung,
ivory keys, 7 octaves.
Height, 4ft. 3in.
Length, sft. lin.
W. H. PALING CO. LTD
The Leading' House for Everything Musical,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, USMORC and TOOWOOMBA.
Electric Power
We can suit your requirements
in all
Power Generating and
Transmitting Machinery.
■ l . •.
Prime Movers, Control Gear,
Distribution Apparatus,
Dynamos, Motors, Couplings,
Machine-cut Gears, etc.
COMPLETE PLANTS
INSTALLED. ..
High - Efficiency
Gearing.
Difficult speed problems in Power .
Transmission can often be solved
by the interposition of;properly
SELECTED GEARS.
WE CAN QUOTE on such
propositions with SCIENTIFI-
CALLY DESIGNED and
Soundly Constructed
id V-.
d V.
Double Helical Gears.
Single and Double Reduction ,
Worm Gearing.
'•A-A ‘
Send us your inquiries.
NOYES BROS
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence St., Sydney.
(MELBOURNE) PROPRIETARY LTD., 499-501 Bourke St., Melbourne
•Selling Ag'ents-CHAS. E. BERNAYS, 45 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
STEELE ®, BAKER, Adelaide ; J. W. R. GARDAM, Perth.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIFIITED, Redfern, Sydney.
Just one taste of B.L. will prove its high quality.
BULLOCH LADE <“BL”)
Is Good Whisky, and is Good for You.
Is Obtainable Everywhere, but Equalled Nowhere.
ALWAYS SEE S.V.O. WHITE LABEL.
FLANAGAN S HOTEL, Oxford Street, Sydney
CHARLES TIERNON (late of Brisbane) has
just taken over the above Hotel.
EXCELLENT ACCOMMODATION FOR VISI-
TORS. Write or wire for rooms.
TERMS: Per day, Bs. : per week, 425.
THE BEST HOTEL
TO STAY AT...
when visiting Melbourne is “Scott’s.” Hav-
ing been entirely rebuilt and reconstructed
“Scott’s” figures now as one of the finest
and largest hotels in Australia. At “Scott’s”
you get both surnptuousness and comfort,
combined with every modern convenience that
can be wished for. Private attendance
’phones are connected with all rooms, and hot
and cold water service is installed in
bedrooms.
Excellent Cuisine, Music, and Cool, Comfort-
able “Arcade” and Roof Smoking T.ounges.
Write or wire for accommodation.
SCOTT’S HOTEL,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Telegrams—“ Scott’s,” Melbourne,
SPORTING
NOTIONS
William Cope, the Sydney solicitor, who
lias gone to the Front from London, having been
unable to get a military job here, is the best type
of sportsman. He has played polo ever since it was
introduced to Australia. He was one of the keenest
followers of the Sydney “drag” in its palmy days.
Up till quite recently he rode in hunting events at
the Agricultural Ground. He wasn’t exactly a
champion horseman, and he was indifferent as to
what sort of animal he bestrode, so he had poor
success. But no one ever challenged his nerve. It
was, and is, of the best. He had hard luck iri the
Boer war. After doing splendid service he picked up
a paper and found a cable message saying that one
Cope, of Australia, had been awarded the D.S.O.
No one who knew him was surprised. A few days
passed, and it then turned out that “Cope” was a
misprint for Cape. The lucky man was Charles
Cape.
At the start of tlie Randwick meeting it
seems to have been whispered into the riders’ ears,
or it may have been the horses’ ears, that the big
course was beginning to have as bad a name for
“crook” running as a bush pub meeting; and to
show that owners and trainers and jockeys were
above suspicion, the harrier was broken again and
again previous to the start in the Villiers Stakes.
It happened so often that riders and horses were com-
pletely 011 their nerves before the actual start. The
result was just as annoying to all bar the hooks.
The winner, the rankest outsider of tlie field. Chal-
lenge Cross, ran in the name of Harry Moses, jun.,
the present-day champion bowler and ex-champion
cricketer of' N. S. M ales.
Saturday at Randwick saw small fields,
a trifling crowd, pleasant weather, and short odds.
Hackers made R. M\ McFadyen’s shapely mare, Silver
Grain, favorite for the Summer Cup at 2 to 1. She
finished nowhere, the winner turning up in Loehano,
about whom the best odds obtainable were eights.
The lucky.few who supported this annual may kick
themselves on reflecting that, in view of the huge
number who hacked the favorite, the tote oil.ls oh
the winner would have been at least thirties. The
difference represents the price the punters pay for
the bookie.
Cetigne was, of course, a hot thing for the Decem-
ber Stakes. He is a Grafton colt, and one of the
likeliest two-year-olds seen at Randwick for year-.
His owner nicked him up for a couple of hundred
guineas. The public had to he satisfied with evens
in a field of 10. but it turned out all ruQit. the
favorite getting jway.,jii_ front bi-h-ht and early, and
staying there till the finish.
Taunter nearly gave liis - multitudinous hackers
heart disease in the A.J.C. Handicap. He began
dead last, and only made 110 flic leewav at the dis-
tance. Just as he appeared to have the race won.
Pongo, the second favorite, came with a rush and
was with difficulty staved off by a nose or so. It
is these experiences, combined With the fact that so
much of the cash which is risked is till-money, that
give the backer that worn, harassed look.
Although the A.J.C. first ran a “Summer
Cup” as recently as 1890, that title has done duty
for three separate distances. The original distance,
one mile and a half, was changed in 1894 to a mile
and three-quarters, and in 1900 another alteration
found the journey set at its present length, one mile
five furlongs—a furlong or two over the odds, coining
so soon after the Spring meetings. No nag lias won
a Summer Cup twice at the same distance, hut Blue
Metal scored in the last that was run at a mile and
three-quarters (1899) and again in the first mile
and five furlong race (1900) ; also he was runner-up
in 1901. Blue Spec was third in 1902, nearly three
years prior to his Melbourne Cup win. Marvel Loch
ran second in 1905 (AY. P. Crick's costly fraud,
Ossian, won) after annexing that year's Caulfield Cup.
Moorilla, Sydney Cup s mud-splashed winner in 1911,
was third in the Summer Cup of the following year.
Tlie A.J.C. event and Tattersall’s Club Cup, run a
week later, have always been closely connected, many
runners in the former not having time to “go off,”
and some being more in earnest in the T.C. race.
Tatt.’s Cup was first run so far hack as 1868, but
the distance, two miles, made it no sort of rival to
the Melbourne or Sydney Cup. It wasn’t till 1910
that the distance was dropped to a mile and a half,
thus leaving the Summer Clip the longer race by a
furlong instead of the shorter by four, two or three
furlongs. This summer is the fifth in which the two
Cups have been run at their present distances, and the
trifling difference between 13 furlongs and 12 has
been largely the cause of considerable repetition in
the places. In 1910-11 it was: —Summer Cup:
Britain, 1 ; Jinnee, 2 ; Dorando, 3. Tatt.’s Cup:
By Play, 1 ; Jinnee, 2 ; Britain, 3. In 1911-12
S. Cup: Baw Bee, 1; Olive Green, 2; Saxonite, 3.
Tatt.’s Cup: Son of the Marsh, 1 ; Olive Green, 2 ;
Baw Bee, 3. In 1913-14:—Summer Cup: Barlow,
1; Coradil, 2; Limelight, 3. Tatt.’s Cup: Alured,
1 ; Coradil, 2 : Limelight, 3. In 1894-5, Blarney-
stone won both the Summer Cup at If mile (from
The Trier and Florrie) and Tatt.’s Cup, at. two
miles (from Florrie and The Trier). No other nag
scored in both events in any one summer, hut
Alured won the A.J.C. event in December, 1912, and
the other race in January last.
* * * *
In Tatt.’s No. I sweep on the Carrington
Stakes (run at Randwick) this week, ticket 38,405
won three prizes—£100, £lO, £5.
Loehano, third in the Villiers Stakes mile
on December 19A: nd winner of the Summer Cup on
December 26 at Randwick, is a 6-year-old mare by
Positano from Marvel Loch (a Caulfield Cup winner),
and lier last previous success was the Williamstown
(Melb.) Handicap, 1 mile 3 furlongs, last November.
it. *■ * *
The revised Australian racing rules
(which come into force on and after February 1)
contain one sensible alteration, at any rate. Hence-
forth no racing animal will he permitted to he given
a title or have numbers added similar to that of any
horse whose name is in the Australian Stud Book, or
which has entered or run in an event since Septem-
ber 1, 1865. This is an alteration which has been
demanded for years, hut latterly had been despaired
of.
* * • *
The Y.A.T.C. had its holiday meeting
on Boxing Day, and the V.R.C. hopes for a profit
from tlie time-honored fixture at Flemington on
New Year’s Day—the day when, of yore, tlie Cham-
pion Stakes was run. A little of their old gambling
aroma still hangs to the Standish and Bagot double,
although the added monev is a very small induce-
ment these times and the sprint and tlie 12-furlong
race are no longer talked about before the day.
A rather interesting nomination is Kirtle, a natty
little daughter of Wullace-Cretonne, wlio showed
speed as a two-year-old, and may he a lot better
than her more recent running has suggested.
At a recent Woodville (M.L.) meeting
an aged gelding named Sandstream won the Borough
Handicap and returned his supporters a dividend of
£lB2. Backers with the “hooks” received £7
10s.—the limit of tote odds given by M.L. bagmen.
The new president of tlie Anti-tote Association is
invited to arise and say a short prayer.
Governor Galway, of South Aus., was
telling the N. S. Wales cricketers the other day in
Adelaide how much he thought of cricketers in
general and Clem Hill in particular. “He ought to
come hack to the game again. Even if he does not
play regularly in clid) cricket he should play for
South Aus., because he is a tower of strength.
Without disparaging other great left-handed bats-
men [they had Bardsley with them that day], we
can say he was the greatest left-handed batsman,
not oniv in Australia, but in the world.” His Ex.
(a good s iort 011 the racecourse, by the way) stated
that his father, a cricketer of some credit in his
dav. was the first mail to howl round-arm in Ire-
land. That was about 1842, and the performance
was heartily hooted.
11. Y. Minnett Wagged eight wickets for
50 runs in 24 overs in Victoria’s first innings against
N. S. Males. This slaughter resulted in Victoria
ending its first innings with a mere 142. Only that
tough warrior Armstrong could hold the fort against
Minnett. Of Victoria’s 142 he made 62. Sundries,
who rever gets out, had 20 against his name —the
next best score.
“Sundries” lias scored consistently against
N.SMY. in inter-State cricket this season. S. Aus.
was bellied to 30 unhatted runs at Adelaide, and
Vic. was presented with 20 in the first innings at
Melbourne last week.
An old player said unkindly of the cricket
teams representing N.S.W. and S.A. last week that,
taking them in bulk, they are the worst 22 inter-
Staters that ever played 011 the Adelaide Oval. Oer-
tainly the departure of Crawford, and the standing
down of llill, M'hittv. Macartney and Trumper, with
Bardsley far from liis toil form, took ail the
sparkle out of the game. S.A. had nothing at all
that could he called bowling; it hit the stumps
oniv once during the game, and Mayne (with two
wickets) actually had the best average in the second
innings. Yet by a variety of had strokes N.S.W.
got out for 241 and 366, and schoolboy Taylor's 69
was the highest score on the side. He made a good
first, appearance, and so did Pratten and Cranney.
Scott did some good fast bowling. S.A. was nearly
100 to the bad on each innings; Mayne, Moyes and
Middleton doing very little, though Steele’s level
100 was easily the best hatting of the whole match.
N.SAY. fielding was at times brilliant on the ground,
hut the dropped catches were just awful.
A. W. Green, for years the best-known
man in the governing body connected with N. S.
Wales cricket, lias just mounted another step in the
Public Service. Officially he has charge of file
State’s boarded-out children; now lie has been
chosen to succeed Dr. Mackellar as president of the
State Children’s Relief Board. It carries no extra
pav ; hut Drs. Renwick and Mackellar, the previous
holders, both got titles, and apparently accepted the
insult gratefully. #
“Xoss” Iredale starts as secretary of
N.S.W. Cricket Association at a bad time. Cricket
as a monev maker is on the down grade. In fact,
it lias got so far down the hill that, at the last
meeting, the Association gravely discussed whether
it could afford to pay umpires £1 per day. or
whether it shouldn’t be 10s. —a straw to
show the force of the financial storm that will be
blowing through Iredale’s whiskers. Incidentally,
he has no whiskers. *
Frank Iredal e.
N.S.W. Cricket Associa-
tion's new secretary, has
had a life-long experience
of the game. He has
represented Ma against
every Australian State
and Maoriland, and has
also had a place in Aus-
tralian Xl’s both in Eng-
land and at home. In
addition to helping stir
enthusiasm for Aus-
tralian cricket on the
playing field, he has, a*
a sporting writer ,to Eng-
lish papers, been a con-
sistent battler for the
welfare of the game at
Ibis end and a square
deal from the other end.
N.S.W. Cricket
Association is making its
annual noise over the de-
cline in the weight of
the cash-box. Although
financially the Associa-
tion isn't on the rocks
—it has something like
£l5OO on mortgage—the
money is tied up, and
tlie cash till is barren.
The southern tour, whicli
is now being pushed*
through, was financed on
an overdraft of £2OO.
Also, the country tours
(always a feature of
Christmas-time) have
been abandoned owing
to stone-brokeness. Some
men have even aban-
doned their grandmoth-
ers in a period of stone-
brokeness.
FRANK IREDALE.
The feature of this year’s inter- \ arsity
cricket match was the hammering of the bowling.
In three days 34 wickets fell at a cost of 1197
runs. Melbourne’s collapse in the first innings for
180 was weak, but the second biff brought 412, and
Sydney used up the energy of 10 howlers in order to
displace the southerners. The bowling on both sides
was below second-rate, and deserves the attention of
those interested in ’Varsity sport.
The death of A. O. Jones is another re-
minder that tlie career of a first-class cricketer,
long sustained, rarely paves the way to a hale old
age. A \V. G. Grace is the exception. Quite a lot
of cricket artists, who have starred as young men in
Australia within the past 30 years, are now under-
ground. The late .Tones, of Nottingham, was one
of the finest athletes in the business. He was a
dashing hitter when his eye was in and his nerves
well strung, and a fieldsman —at mid-on and slip—
whose work it was a pleasure to see. Seven years
ago, when he captained an M.G.O. team for Aus-
tralia, he began with a century innings in Adelaide,
and then he caught cold, or fell ill of over-exertion,
or something, and was hors de combat for two
seasons. He returned to the game for awhile in
failing health, and had scored 42 when Death caught
him off the bowling of Pneumonia.
* * * *
In First-Grade cricket at Wellington (M.L.)
recently the Central team put on 527 runs in its first
innings, for nine wickets. The record score in
M'indvville is 566.
'** * *
Boxing is tlie only profession in which
the better the performer the harder it is for him to
make money—if he is colored. Sam McVea is broke,
Johnson has been obliged to hypothecate most of
his diamonds, and Sam Langford, according to the
U.S. papers, spends most of liis time fighting “on the
cross” as a means of evading insolvency. The fight
in which “Gunboat” Smith outpointed him is now
recognised to have been a “frame-up.“ The idea
was that there should he a return battle. But Smith
and liis manager tried to side-step the second con-
test, and only agreed to it, so the Yankee yarn
goes, on fcondition that Sam should both lie down
and take a miserably inadequate share of the purse.
Sam, in the words of one of his country’s papers,
“planned a terrible revenge.” He arrived in the
ring fit. He pasted Smith mercilessly from the
word go. lie tore him to pieces in four rounds, and
jumped on the remains. He followed up this effort
by allowing himself to bo out-pointed hv Jeff Clarke,
a comparative, unknown. 111 the words of the
Yankee press: “Clarke landed four blows to Sams
one. He beat Langford at in-fighting, ami fought
rings round him. showing spectre-like ability in
avoiding his punches.” Samuel's idea is to have
another battle and the profits thereof, and either
regain his more or less mislaid prestige by knock-
ing Clarke speechless, or lose once more, for value
received, with a view to making Clarke resemble a
White Hope in the eyes of the foolish.
Since their last battle Mick King had
lost a couple of pounds and 'Jeff Smith had gained
about the same when they met on Saturday night
at Svdnev Stadium. The difference in Smith’s favor
was accordingly over 41b., and it look - ly _
stone. Besides being one of the
formed specimens of humanity that ‘
seen, Jeff is a superb boxer and as strong a
German report of' how the Russians wee , '
The characteristic which prevents him tron
being regarded as a world-beater in the l.
liable, his excessive caution. He can do c'eryth g
but take a timely lisk. Once in his great fight in
Sydney with McGoorty he had that formidable cus
tomer tottering. The odds were a million •
his scoring a knock-out had he dared t •
He stood off, and the decision went to McGoorty.
The verdict was a rotten one, but Smith almos
earned it bv Ids senseless prudence. He acted sim
larlv in the case of King, who couldn t knock him ou
if thev fought every week for 10 years. Satin day
battle was very far from being all Smith, in tact,
for the first. 10 rounds, it was mostly King- * e
when Smith’s superior strength and (.‘OllOlllOll had
begun to assert themselves, and his chances of
making a certainty of the conflict were good, lie let
them go. It is true that his tactics were justified
bv the referee’s decision, but it might well have
gone the other way. It is a matter ot how one esti-
mates the points. Jeff missed, roughly, five times to
Kind's one. Often he missed by feet. On the othei
hand, when he landed he landed hard. King s abnoi-
mallv long left was in the Yankees face most ol
the evening—though without working much havoc
and he led quite as readily as Smith Altogether
was a close, though not wildly interesting, battle, ll
Smith could only be persuaded to cast aside his
native reserve, or whatever it is, and let hnnselt go
and take a chance or two. he would be one of the
greatest boxers to watch. As it is, he is irritating
and futile.
There is no better proof that Australian
crowds go to see boxing, as opposed to more 01 less
crude stoush, than the fact that the preliminaries to
a big fight are mostly staged before a half-empty
house. There must have been close 011 15,000 people
in the Sydney Stadium when the Smith-King dis-
turbance started. There weren’t 7000 for Ihe pre-
liminaries. And yet the latter supplied 100 per
cent, more blood, flying hair and teeth, and uproar
generally.
* * * *
Les Darcy, the middleweight phenomenon
from Maitland (N.S.W.), easily beat Fred Dyer at
the Brisbane Stadium on Saturday night. The local
talent fancied Dver highly for .some reason, but he
had no hope against one as rugged as Darcy. Never-
theless he managed to stall the N.S.W. hoy off for
about half the session. After that lie found it neces-
sary to develop a strategic retreat. From time to
time tlie latter degenerated into a rout. The affair
went 20 rounds —due chiefly to Dyer’s talents as an
evasionist.
* * * *
A red-headed Australian named McNabli
is to engage Jimmy Kitton 011 New Years Night at
Svdnev Stadium. Evervbody knows Fitton and his
speed and skill. McNabb is reputed to he another
Squires, only more so. Where Squires' jaw was of
glass, McNabb's is of blue-metal. And, above all,
he has the punch.
# * * *
Three Kays will appear at Sydney
Stadium next Saturday night. Each of the pre-
liminaries will contain a brother of the lanky cham-
pion from W.A., and in the big event of the evening
Fred himself will clash with Herb McCoy. The
winner meets Hughie Mehegan, later on, for the
lightweight championship of Australia.
» * * *
Jim Barry, of the U.S., who was in Aus-
tralia a while back, has been making an
ass of himself. He was to have fought a
British heavyweight at the London ring last
month, but was arrested instead and charged
witli stealing a suit of clothes and a watch and
chain. When put in the dock he got annoyed,
leapt the harrier, and was proceeding to deal it out
to the prosecutor, when a herd of police fell on him
and took him back to the cells. Arrived in the
cells he had a fit. The patrons of the Ring didn’t
lose much, it is James's way, after collecting one
hit that hurts, to go to earth and stay there.
* * * *
In one Dave Geikie, Brisbane has unearthed
a featherweight with a punch. He came from the
amateur ranks a few months ago, and has won five
professional fights to date, four by the knock-out.
in his last fight he outed the 1913 amateur Aus-
tralian champion in a round, lie is now to meet
Sid Sullivan, and, if successful, lias been promised
Jimmy Hill for the Australian championship.
* * * *
Killed in war’s scrum, Gaston Bane, one
of the best Rugby toeballers that France has pro-
duced. He had a place in 15 tri-color teams for
international matches.
■<•** *
Rugby players Danny Carroll and Jim
Wylie, former members of the Waratahs, who
visited America in 1912, were of great assistance to
Stanford University in their annual match against
the University of California on November 14
last. Carroll (who remained behind in 1912) and
Wylie (who returned to the U.S. in 1913 with Hie
Ail Blacks) are both studying engineering. Both
were instrumental in starting most of the rushes
that ended in Stanford's six tries. The filial score
was Stanford 20 to 8. One novel barracking stunt
b.v Stanford was having an aviator fiv over the field
with a red “S" on the bottom of his plane. After
a. few turns around the ground he looped the loop
four times; then, swooping down close to the field,
lie threw a football tied with Stanford colors at the
California barrackers —or “rooters,” as they are
called in the land of wooden nutmegs.
“Orient”: Buttan Singh, the wrestler, is
in trouble in Victoria—very serious trouble: over
the shooting of a woman and her children. A wiry
customer he was ; yet Hackenschmidt heat both him
and Gunea Singh in one night. Buttan is wrongly
called a Hindoo hawker. Most, if not all, “Hindoo”
hawkers. in Australia are Mahometan or Sikh.
Buttan is Sikh. The three classes are as distinct a-
English, German and French. The Sikhs, all from the
Puniab, are turlianed, like Mahometans, hut their
. religion is a compound of Mahometan and Hindoo.
Australians see turbaned men drinking jn pubs, and
are amazed, supposing them to be Mahometans and,
therefore, pledged to teetotalism. These drinkers are
usually Sikhs, who swill beer like water. All of
them have the name of Singh, which means Lion.
The English in India put more reliance on their
loyalty than on that of any other native lot.
(Continued on page 40. )
THE HASH-HOUSE TIPSTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Here in the smoke-room (fusty place!)
The boarders talk at a fearful pace,
And blow the smoke in my harmless face
From cigarettes made of guano ;
They talk of a race that's soon to he,
Till some loud bounder appeals to m- !
And I say with a suitable mystery,
“I like Prince Positano.”
Now I don’t know even what race they mean;
But stuck in the midst of the sporty scene,
M’here they plunge in argument mild or keen,
Fortissimo or piano,
I’ve got to sham that I know the game,
So I dredge my mind for a horse’s name;
And as quick as my tongue the words can frame,
I say, “Prince Positano.”
His breeding and age are unknown (o me,
Anil whether lie’s scratched, or going to be;
And any old tip that I give, you sec,
Is a dish to he served cum grano ;
It is only a name that caught ray eye,
When I let the twopenny tram go by
And opened the paper; yet 1 reply:
“1 like Prince Positano.”
But the hash-house sport is a frightful goat.
They all look wise in a way remote,
And the cigarette in each unshaved throat
Smells as old as the ghost of llanno.
From one to another the word is passed:
“There’s worse ’uns whinin',” “I've ’card ’e's fast,”
Till, on my faith as a mug, at last
They like Prince Positano !
For all 1 know lie’s the Carbine sort,
Or would tire in the length of the tennis court,
But the word goes round in that house of sport
Till I hear in a loud soprano
The anguished women go up and down,
Saying in whispers to wake the town:
“Do you know, Aggie, that Mr. Brown,
He likes Prince Positano 1”
The tale may sound like a lie unique,
But the hash-house sport is a fearsome freak ;
And they ask me, seventy times a week,
If I’ve heard any more; but, ah, no!
/ don’t know whether lie lives or dies ;
So l shut my mouth, and I just look wise;
And whenever he starts, I bet my eyes
They’ll back Prince Positano!
N.S.W.
THE MUG.


Why You Need My
Health Exercises t
Because they are a natural stimulant for
replacing the waste tissue of your system.
Every effort you make destroys energy,
creating tissue in proportion to the exertion
involved.
This process is going on every minute of
the day, and unless you exercise .judiciously,
the accumulation of waste tissue will debili-
tate your system.
Of course, you may not notice the differ-
ence. It is so gradual. But it certainly
exists. It is ever increasing, and always
undermining your energy —your health.
By performing a few simple, yet scientific,
exercises, such as those comprising the
Baker Course of Health Exercises
you immediately expel the worn-out tissue,
and create new tissue to take its place.
These HEALTH EXERCISES are extremely
beneficial. They are very thorough. They
ensure a copious, virile blood circulation.
And a strong blood circulation means the
nourishing and strengthening of all the thews,
sinews, nerve cells, etc., of your body.
Read the convincing proofs given in these
letters •: —
“Your Exercises have been very satis-
factory indeed, doing much more for me
than I anticipated. I feel quite a dif-
ferent person.”
—L.J.H., Tabulam (N.S.W.).
“My muscles are harder, and my
chest, back and limbs much stronger. I
think it is impossible to over-estimate
the value of these exercises, and T will
recommend them to all my friends.”
—W.B.T., Onga Onga.
Write for my profusely illustrated, 48-page
Booklet, which gives full particulars, cost of
tuition, etc. Kindly send three penny
stamps to cover postage.
CL*
8
_
REG. L. BAKER,
379 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
YOU'LL ENJOY MY
CIGARILLOS
They are little cigars of
excellent quality. For a
short smoke —something be-
tween a cigar and a
cigarette, my cigar-
illos are just the
thing.
Mild and delightful
in flavor.
In three sizes, but
ONE quality.
1. 2. 3.
10/- 9/- 8 -
Postage Extra
on 100:
N.S. IC. Gd.
Other States Sd.
Write for a
Copy of my
111 a s trated
C a t a 1 o g
Post Free.
Actual Size of Cigarillos.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“ Cigar Expert,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
gdf
“SHELL”
BENZINE
AGAIN insisted on
by
Sir Ernest Shackleton
for use in
The Imperial Antarctic
Expedition.
Jrvdiarv
g
Moto-
sfycles
CQ
!
7-h.p. Twin, Free-engine,
3-inch Tyres, £6B.
Hendee Manufacturing Co.
109 Russell Street, Melbourne, VIC.
Send for Catalog D.
HO TELKEEPERS ! HO TELKEEPERS /
ECKERSLEY'S DISPENSER
For the Rapid Production of Pure,
Crystal, Effervescent, Draught, Lemon-
ade, Sodawater and every variety of
Aerated Drink.
NO LABOR ! NO BOTTLE-WASHING !
NO BOTTLE FILLING. NO LABELLING OF
BOTTLES! NO BROKEN BOTTLES!
WORKS AUTOMATICALLY.
By Electric or Water Power.
Bar attendant simply pulls a lever and mechanical
power instantly supplies the required drink.
Write for descriptive Catalog to
ECKERSLEY’S,
25a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
01* S. MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: Messrs. ELLIOTT DONALDSON &
DOUGLAS, 529-33 Queen Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
r
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
SYDNEY
WOOL, PRODUCE, AND GRAIN
SALESMEN
THE CORRECT SHOE
gd
for the well-dressed man is the RIGNEY.
It harmonises with the rest of his apparel,
and adds the finishing touch to his appear-
ance.
The illustration shows a Tan Willow Calf
Derby Shoe, Brown Cloth Insertion Tops,
“Non-tread-over” brand.
Price : : 32|6
Postage, fid. extra.
WHITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Building's, Edward Street, BRISBANE,
m
fill* Ifc*;
C annot
Cleanj |
H-egula
British
12/-ea^
if 6 PM
elf
T
cure.
oneri
IS
'LOCAL
liijf
W
PATRIOTISM
1. Your
Aim? r
Then have a^HOT
Ft at smoking
Referee
The Australian Tobacco.
1
T
T
mSBB
jgHßra-ganiifaiHliaajitliLi&PSj
j | ©n Ll i i ■!' iuii ii'vmmm't:
■' L-LJ-4-4-l^-U r 1-jX I ■L^.rii
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from os.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
Tiie Manager.
WAVEfiLEY FOUNTAIN PENS
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
:: FREE
DIFFER FROM ALL OTHERS BY REASON OF
THE ELASTICITY AND PERFECTION OF THE
GOLD WAVERLEY NIB. IT DOES NOT TIRE THE
HAND AS DO THE STUBBORN LIFELESS NIBS
IN ORDINARY FOUNTAIN PENS. THE FLOW OF
INK IS FAULTLESS.
; SOLD BY ;
STATIONERS
AND
; DEALERS :
Wholesale Agent: ROBERT HUTTON, 321 Flinders Lane, Melbourne


Weakly
Children
If you only knew how
SCOTT’S Emulsion brings
health and strength to weak-
ly children, you would never
be without it in your home.
Children love this creamy
strength-maker which pro-
vides the exact nutriment
for growing muscles, tissues
TRADE MARK.
and bones at
the same time
that it promotes
strength to pro-
tect against
wasting disor-
ders, coughs,
colds, whooping-
cough, teething
troubles and
rickets. Give
yourself the
pleasure of
watching your children grow
6turdy and strong on genuine
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
which has, indeed, saved the
lives of millions of weakly
children.
V
2^
njvV
v^'
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
a »e, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. B.
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those vears of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. B. ALLEN’S <u.s.ao
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suitable
for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
SHE DARKENED HER
GREY_HAIR.
A Well-known Lady Darkened Her Grey
Hair and Stimulated Its Growth
by a Simple Home Process.
She Tells How She Did It.
A well-known society lady, who darkened
her grey hair by a simple home process,
made the following statement: “Any lady
or gentleman can darken their grey or
faded hair, stimulate its growth and make
it soft and glossy with this simple recipe,
which they can mix at home. To half a
pint of water add loz. of bay rum, 1 small
box of Orlex Compound and *oz. of glycer-
ine. These ingredients can be purchased at
any chemist's at very little cost. Apply to
the hair every other day until the grey hair
is darkened sufficiently, then every two
weeks. This mixture relieves scalp troubles
and is excellent for dandruff and falling
hair. It does not stain the scalp, is not
sticky or greasy and does not rub off. It
will make a grey-haired person look 10 to
20 years younger.* 14
Icy-Hot
Bottles
ICY-HOT
Bottles
Keep Hot Things Hot 24 Hours
Or Cold Things Cold 3 Days
LT OT or cold
when
needed, while up-
country-hunting,
motoring, picnic-
ing; while in
town - for early
morning shaving
water, coffee, hur-
ried meals. Keep
baby’s milk at
right temperature,
or invalid’s food
hot or cold all
night, without
heat, ice or bother
of preparation.
lev-Hot
Java
ICY-HOTBottles, for water, tea, milk, soup,
etc. Pints, 5/6 up, Quarts, 11/ —up. Nickel
plated, Pints, 8/6up; Quarts, 15/—up. ICY-
HOT Carafe takes place of unsanitary water
bottle. Quarts, 22/ up, with specially pro-
tected neck. 30/ up. ICY-HOT Jars for
hot stews, vegetables, frozen ice cream. Can
also be used for beverages. Nickel plated,
Pints, 15/—up,Quarts,2B/6 up. Also ICY-HOT
Lunch Kits. Inner glass bottle within metal
casing protected against
breakage, easily sterilized
and cheaply replaced if
broken. Liquids touch only
glass —absolutely sanitary.
MADE IN THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA FROM
AMERICAN MATERIALS
Look for name ICY-HOT
on bottom. If your dealer
does not stock it, we mail
direct, prepaid, on receipt
of price.
Send for Catalogue No. 159
Dealers are invited to
write for special terms.
The ‘ICY-HOT’ Bottle Co.
Factory: Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Icy-Hot Carafe
Quart, 3-Pint,
4-Pint, 3-Quart
Miles*
Cheaper
and
Australian.
Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd
All Srares & New Zealand
tlilea
Cheapen
and
Australian.
Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd
Al) States & New Zealand
GOARDA BEANS
The llew Edible Vegetable wonder from the
Solomon Islands. Grows 3 to 6 feet long. One bean
sufficient for a large family meal. Now is the time
to plant. Full instructions given. Send for photo.
Circular free. Seeds can be obtained, 5 for 1/-.
Stamps or postal note. J. M. Morris, 485 Leichhardt
Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
HORLICK’S
MALTED
MILK
Next time you feel
fagged, try a glass of
Horlick's Malted
Milk. You will feel
the difference almost
at once. You will
note a speedy accele-
ration of energy.
Horlick's rapidly en-
dows the system with
vim, vigour and
vitality.
Ask for Horlick’s at
the Soda Fountain.
Sample will be sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamp 3
to Hutchinson & Co.,
26, J amieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
WIJ
tt
O'
THE “TRIDMPHATOR ”
HknTTrmi
isiuttt
CALCULATING MACHINE
is the greatest TIME-SAVING, BRAIN-SAVING
and MONEY-SAVING device that has ever been
introduced to the Office World.
The only machine that always shows you the
actual figures you are working with.
Illustrated Catalogue on application.
A. P. Greenfield 8 Co. Ltd.
189 George St.,
BRISBANE.
KYNOCH
CARTRIDGES
KYNOCH
SWIFT"
_s MO KEI.ES S *
THE
STANDARD OF QUALITY.
BRITISH
HADE THROUGHOUT.
The Inky Way.
“J.F.H.” (London) : It is the same here
—for one typographical error you used to
tind in the newspapers in the days of hand-
setting, you will now meet 50. Yet, common
and all as they are, London gasped when it
read in the Westminster Gazette, one of
the least-badly printed papers in London,
that the late Monsignor Benson, the son of a
recent Archbishop of Canterbury, and a dis-
tinguished Roman Catholic priest-novelist,
was the author of “Confessions of a Convict.
It should have been “Convert.” And
another has just printed this: “Our Fleet
to-day is supreme, but nobody knows when
an auction may take place.”
* * * *
Mrs. L. T. Meade, the lady with the
record output of novels—some 200-odd —
died lately in London. Most of her yarns
were spun for girls. She was the daughter
of an Irish clergyman, but did nearly the
whole of her prolific story-telling in London,
where she edited for years a magazine
called Atalanta. She made her first hit
with a pathetic story of child life—“ Scamp
and I”—the copyright of which she sold for
£3O.
* * * *
The Worker (Sydney) has abandoned
its idea of a new trial with N.S.W. Attorney-
General Hall, and well-meaning (but per-
haps badly-informed) friends on both sides
are trying to bring about a reconciliation.
* * * *
The Bulletin composing-room staff got
one really interesting Christmas card. It
was inscribed: “With the compliments of
the season from the Government Printing
Office, Rabaul.” By way of reminder that
the Rabaul printers work with their fighting
hardware girded on, the New Britain com-
panionship was listed thus: “Lieut. Lyng
(Government Printer), Cpl. Walker, Pri-
vates Driscoll, Richards, Diehl and Solomon.
(On active service).”
During the last three or four years all
the old top-notchers on the Adelaide
Register’s literary staff, except one,
“Bobbie” Burns, now associate-editor, have
left that ancient daily. First went D. J.
Gordon to enter politics. Gordon is now a
Legislative Councillor and has a fine private
business of his own. C. .T. Stevens, for
many years associate-editor with Sowden, and
one of the most caoable of Adelaide journal-
ists, writes leaders for the Adelaide
Mail, which, in new hands, is still flourish-
ing. Clarence Moody, cricket authority
and news editor, quitted in order to start
the Mail. More recently Fred Johns, also
of the editorial staff, and Rodney Cock burn;
sub-editor, winged themselves to Parliament
House to take charge of the new Hansard
staff. Others in subordinate positions
flitted from time to time, and the war has
enabled four members of the Register’s
reporting brigade to get out of an office
which used to be about the most comfortable
in Australia, but now has a thorn in it.
“Y.Z.”: Schuler, editor of the Age, gave
evidence in support of anonymity in press
work before the Commonwealth Electoral
Commission the other day, and supplied a
lot of valueless information. F’rinstance: —
(1) Unsigned matter, being disinterested, would
be of higher value to the community....
(2) The signing of articles did not help jour-
nalists ....
(3) An important point was that the most dis-
interested service was done by men who got no
publicity, but worked for the good of the public. . . .
(4) He would not personally attach any more
value to an article because it was sighed.
In answer to these four statements a jour-
nalist who lias been doing signed and un-
signed stuff in great quantities for many
years says emphatically
(1) Unsigned matter is not necessarily disinter-
ested. It may be the writer’s keen desire to hide
his interests that induces him to withhold his name.
The community un to now has derived the greatest
value from signed matter. In fact, the unsigned
matter that has been of pronounced public utility is
a trifling pile beside the pyramid of literary goods
bearing the makers’ stamp.
(2) The signing of stuff does help journalists.
My unsigned matter has been of no particular good
to me. It is by virtue of my signed stuff that I
have thriven financially and in every other respect.
(3) The most disinterested service is not done bv
anonymous writers, but by passionate men with the
courage of their convictions. If this is still
doubted, let me refer you to the literature of the
world since Moses.
(41 Editor Schuler attaches no extra value to an
article because it is signed, but if the article is a
good one the public attaches extra value to the
writer signing it, and he scores, just as any other
professional man scores, by reason of excellent
work. You will notice that lawyers are not
anonymous, neither are doctors, nor architects, nor
artists. Why should the literary light be the only
one to go under the quart pot ?
:;:***
Adelaide Sunday Mail, lately in liquida-
tion, has been financed afresh, and goes on
much as before, except that Rex Syme
moves up into the editor’s chair that was
Clarence Moody’s. Frank Stone —who also
has been with the paper from the start-
looks after the business side. The recent
daily afternoon edition, “having fulfilled its
mission,” is stopped, and the Mail again
becomes a Saturday-midnight paper only.
The chief “mission” the ill-advised afternoon
issue really fulfilled was to annoy Register
and Advertiser into each putting out a
Sunday paper at a penny. The withdrawal
of the Mail from the daily field has not
been enough to induce them to withdraw
from the Sunday field, and, as the Mail
remains at the old 2d., it may have a hard
row to hoe compared with the monopoly it
foolishly flung away.
* * * *
Harmsworth has served Britain well in
his way. It was chiefly his nagging and
clapperclawing that raised the Fleet to its
present strength. That work being put
behind him. he is now seeing to it that
Britain settles down comfortably to the job
in hand, and he has consequently arranged
for the circulation of the Daily Mail among
the troops. It is on sale daily in the
trenches at 5 p.m. The edition is the Paris
one, and it is run up to the firing line by
one of those Daily Mail specials which
are to be seen all over Europe.


HALL’S ARTISTIC MISSION FURNITURE
Call and Inspect the Finest Stock in Sydney.
ALL GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES.
Splendidly' Displayed in Specimen Furnished Rooms.
Ref. No. OAK BEDROOM (Photographed) of our £ll5 Home Furnishing Estimate.
31.—“ Canberra” Oak Bedroom Suite, comprising, 6ft. Wardrobe, full-length mirror in right-hand compartment, bow front, large Hat
Cupboard, also deep drawer at bottom; 4ft. Dressing Table, with shaped, bevelled mirror and 4 large drawers; 4ft. Washstand,
shaped tile back and double-door cupboard. Oxidised mounts throughout
431. —Solid Oak Chair, to match
4ft. din. Solid Oak Bedstead, Heavily Carved, “Kurunda,” fitted with all-brass Italian top ■
143. —4ft. 6in. Kapok Mattress, Bolster and 2 pillows, in best linen ticking, No. 3}£ .
149.—4 ft. din. Treble Wire Mattress, with rolled sides
6-piece Toilet Set
WRITE FOR OUR LARGE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE AND FURNISHING ESTIMATES.
£29 10 0
0 12 6
7 15 0
2 12 6
110
12 6
£42 13 6
A.
HALL ®. CO.,
The Reliable Home Furnishers
501, 561 a, 503, 505* 507 George Street, Sydney
SIEMENS
Electric Fans.
High in
Efficiency.
mz.
mm
jm>.
i't
m
%
I
V/A
■>>v
1
?. ; '
Low in
Price.
SIEMENS TABLE BRACKET CEILING and EXHAUST FANS
FOR DIRECT and ALTERNATING CURRENT.
NOW IS THE TIME TO INSTALL
Siemens Bros. Dynamo
Works Limited.
Head Office —London.
Machine and Switchgear W orKs : Stafford, England.
Cable and Telegraph WorKs: Woolwich, Condon.
Incandescent Lamp WorKs: Dalston, Condon.
Australian. Offices :
59 William Street* MELBOURNE.
42 Bridg'e Street, SYDNEY.
fg
Ring out
the Old,
Ring in
the New!”
New Year
Gifts for the
Folk you had
Forgotten !
Now that there is time to breathe awhile, turn back'your list of friends
whom you wished to remember.
Sure enough in every one’s list there will be a few near and dear friends
whose gift you have overlooked in the scurry of Christmas. Here are a few
after-Christmas Suggestions for New Year Gifts.
iuvr^
W S7\*\
3 b I !
UJiM.
03304 — Carved Oak
Clock, stands 51
inches high. 6/<i post
free.
0530S —Sterling’ Silver
and Cut Glass
Smelling Salts
Bottle. 7/6 post free.
09901 —Australia 11
Souvenir Serviette
Ring;, supported by
four Boomerangs. 4/«
post free.
GET A CATALOGUE
Our Mail Order Catalogue will furnish you with many ideas for (lifts.
Write to-night for a copy. It’s post free to you.
Stewart Dawson’s,
STRAND CORNER,
412 George Street
Sydney


ft
n
7!
2
3S2a
The
Grand Prix
Internationa/
Jiec/ica/Congress • 1<) 13*
Has 6een aWarc/ecf /o
SANffI&GEN
Let Sanatogen Make You Healthier.
Xou will certainly be healthier,
stronger, and more vigorous, if you
take a few weeks’ course of
Sauatogen.
§
“►Since taking Sanatogen, I am
really better —a brighter, stronger
tone altogether,” writes Lady
Muir.
Even after the first few (loses:—
say, for instance, the contents of
one small packet—you will notice
a marked improvement in your
condition.
Your nervous system, in particu-
lar, will be wonderfully invigor-
ated. Witness this statement by
Madame Sarah Grand, the famous
authoress of “The Heavenly
Twins” and other well-known
novels: —
“I pin my faith to Sanatogen,
because it certainly restored me to
health in the worst nervous break-
down I ever had. It is a building-
up process, but not ‘jerry-building’
—the -work is done to last."
In Digestive Troubles,
etc.
Yes, the good which Sanatogen
does is lusting , not only in a ner-
vous breakdown, but in various
other conditions. For example,
Mrs. Kensington, wife of Mr.
Justice Kensington, Lahore, India,
writes: “Sanatogen is the best
Jicli> for digestive troubles that I
have come across. Mr. Kensington
and I have also found it a won-
derful reviver and tonic.”
In Anaemia.
The effects of Sanatogen in
poverty of the blood are described
as follows by Dr. Ferchmin,
physician to the Czar of Russia:
“My daughter, who was very
anaemic, .has been greatly benefited
by the use of Sanatogen. Her
appetite improved, her weight in-
creased, and the color of her skin
became healthier.”
Equally remarkable are the
effects of Sanatogen in the case of
weakly children of all ages. Public
Health , one of the prominent
medical papers, contains an article
by a well-known doctor who says:
‘“I determined to try Sanato-
gen on a child suffering from
really pitiable debility. The change
in her condition at the end of a
fortnight was truly wonderful.
Appetite was improved, diarrhoea
had stopped, the cheeks were rosy,
and her weight had increased by
lib. lOoz.”
Sanatogen is of the greatest
value before and after confinement,
because nothing is so effectual for
building up and strengthening the
system. It is also strongly recom-
mended for nursing mothers to
ensure that the milk shall be
abundant and healthy.
Other uses of Sanatogen—for
example, in Neuralgia, Nervous
Headache and Insomnia, etc. —are
too numerous to mention here.
Send a post=card, men=
tioning this paper, for a
free interesting Booklet,
“ How to Live Healthily.”
Address : The Sanatogen Co.,
17 Bond Street, Sydney,
N.S.W. Sanatogen is sold
by all Chemists, from 2/6
per tin.
“Young Wisdon,” in which Madge Tither-
adge has the leading role at London Play-
house, is not enthused over. It was over-
energetically boomed in advance by Cyril
Maude, who was mightily impressed by it
in the United States, and secured the Eng-
lish rights. It turns out to be a Yankee
version of a discussion pursued in one of the
London papers some time ago about the
wisdom of young people living together for a
period of probation before legally binding
themselves together in marriage. Madge is
an advanced Girton girl in full sympathy
with this theory, and the play shows how
she and her girl-convert (Margery Maude)
tried to put it into practice.
From London : “Tommy Atkins” has unex-
pectedly failed at the Lyceum, but “Sealed
Orders,” also revived, and with a new battle-
scene thrown in, is doing well. Another re-
vival is “The Glad Eye,” with Dorothy Minto
as Kiki instead of Ethel Dane, now in her
native Australia. “Milestones” is also on
again, with most of the original cast. New
things seem to have no chance unless they
deal with the war, and Hawtrey has had to
withdraw “Seven Keys to Baldpate.” But
the most remarkable revival is to be at Drury
Lane, where “The Sleeping Beauty” will
again be put up at Christmas —for the third
successive year! Cyril Maude has gone to
America for two years. Chung Ling Soo is
doing his magic at the Hippodrome. The
Sporting Times does not care for the jiu-
jitsu dance of Leslie and Ivy Schilling, whom
it describes, without naming them, as “a man
and a woman, the latter distinctly attractive.”
“By Jingo, if We Do!” is the old-fashioned
name of a new revue. But the prettiest title
in sight is “The Bloody Beast of Berlin,” a
new “patriotic” drama.
“Monkbarns”: Mention in “Poverty
Point” of an unpublished autobiography of
J. C. Lambert, the comedian, left with his
nephew in Richmond (Melb.) sent me on
the hunt. After many years as a London
actor Lambert came to Australia in 1557.
and appeared in Sydney as the King of
Bavaria, with Lola Montez. In Melbourne
he first appeared at the Royal Amphi-
theatre, afterwards the Princess’s. Then
lie was engaged by Brooke at the Royal,
Brooke having severed his partnership with
Coppin. After a trip to England Lambert
was back in Melbourne in 1860, and played
Daddy Hardacre. In 1862 he was engaged
by Simmonds with the powerful company
which supported Jefferson at the Princess’s.
It included Heir, Stewart. Fitzgerald. Holt
(Bland’s father), Dunn, Harwood. Ireland,
Mrs. Heir. Mrs. Phillips, Rosa Dunn and
Dolly Green. There were great produc-
tions of “Rip Van Winkle,” "The Rivals,”
“Our American Cousin,” “The Octoroon,”
“Cricket on the Hearth,” “Poor Gentleman.”
“Heir at Law.” “Midsummer Night’s
Dream,” etc. Then, with Barry Sullivan
added, there were a few golden nights of
“The School for Scandal.” “Much Ado
About Nothing,” and “Money.” Sullivan’s
Royal management began April, 1863,
with Lambert and much of the Prin-
cess’s company, except Holt and Dunn,
while C. Young was substituted for Stew-
art, though both were afterwards engaged.
Lambert was again first old man. Lastly,
in 1867, he figured in the copartnery of
Lambert, C. Vincent, Harwood, Stewart,
Bellair and Hennings, taking over the
direction after Hoskins and Holt. This
copartnery introduced Montgomery. Then
he returned to England.
“C. Ockney”: George R. Sims keeps his
end up remarkably. Ilis “Ever Open Door”
is his 60th perpetration in the course
of 40 years of writing for the theatre.
And still they come. His latest melo-
drama, “The, Staircase of Fortune,”
was lately produced in the English
“provinces,” and another, “Jenny o’ Mine,”
is in preparation at the Aldwych. Ilis “Har-
bor Lights” and “In the Ranks,” written up
as “patriotic” dramas, are also being revived
in London, and a film of his best, “Lights o’
London.” is coining money in England and
Australia. I recall the chorus of a song he
wrote for a musical piece, “The Dandy
Fifth,” which should go well now
So come, you foreign soldiers, and we don’t care wlio
you are,
The Uhlans of the Kaiser, or the Cossacks of the
Czar,
Our army may be little, but you’ve learnt before
to-day
A little British Army goes a d —d long wav!
Of course, for present consumption, we’d have
to knock the Cossack out. Say—“ The Uhlan
of the Kaiser, or the Austrian Hussar.” I
don’t know if there is an Austrian Hussar,
but that’s of no consequence when a rhyme
is wanted.
A DESIRE OF COOLNESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A simple gill in pink or green or blue
To read to me, beneath a shady bough,
Of strenuous deeds and things hot people do
With noble perspiration on their brow;
A simple liquid in a thermos flask,
Kept cool when tepid drinks make scorn of
thirst;
A vision of far roads that grill and bask,
: And grim red tanks, burnt, empty and aecurs’d;
A large, electric fan rigged deftly near
In leares that hide its flying blades from view.
So that its artificial wind appear
As if it were the thing chill Auster blew;
A peach or two besides the female one,
Soft, juicy, of the kind that splits in twain;
A bunch of grapes all reddened in the sun,
And some large, ripe tomatoes freshly slain;
A strain of music very far away—
Ten miles the proper distance is, I think—
From harps perspiring, stout musicians play
Muted with blankets in a bath of ink ;
A suit of green pyjamas, very thin,
Upholstered by some wonderful device
That the weight-bearing portions of my skin
May rest on tufts of combed and carded ice 1
These with more liquid from the thermos flask,
And more and ever more when that is gone,
Are all that of my country's gods I ask
Till something kindly moves the heat wave on.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
A’o notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Xame and address mast appear on MSS. Xo
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS, wilt be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Bookie Fiend: The fact is that N.S.W.
is so completely bursting with money that Premier
Holman wouldn't know what to do with the tote
revenue if he got it. The illness of a prominent
politician is due to the fact that £3,000,000 of
surplus revenue fell on him and damaged his back.
T.J.: A very bad variant of an Irish jest that
belonged to the insurrectionary days. It finished
up with the statement that, but for the accursed
drink, the tenant would hit the landlord with his
gun much more frequently. And the soggarth
implored his congregation to swear off... .James M.:
Cordrav (U.S.A.): Well, James, if you are not a
better inventor than you are an author, the pro-
spects of some Australian being induced to put up
the money to float you in this country are dim.
What's the matter with trying Rockefeller?....
T. D’ab: Cannot place “Kicking Strap’s Race,” the
parody of “Kissing Cup’s Race.”.. . .Emilie G.: These
flapper japes at men who are not enlisting are
wasted on this paper. Run off stage and get a
soldier of your own... . Nor’-Wester: We followed it as
it rushed through a breathless 18 lines before coining
to any sort of a stop, and then it fell limply into
the basket.... Borobelle: Impossible. .. .11. A. G. A.
Poet: The writer was not gibing at you and your
mates who can’t go, but at the fancy-dress military
bucks who can go yet stay doggedly at home,
....Cork Tipp: Is it real Irish, do you think?....
J.M.8.: Too mechanical... .J.M.M.: Story creaks
and groans, it is so 01d.... Sauer K.: The time has
gone by for that sort of casual war-whoop John
F. (M.L.) : It's a poor parody, and we refuse to
give you any encouragement. We would rather drop
poison in your beer. .. .E.P.P.: Do you see that
cloud of dust down the road ? Well, that’s the ’bus
you’ve missed... .M.B. P.: “Fears” rather vague.
Seems to be a beautiful trifle about nothing. . . .
Kaspar lv,: The old jest goes: “First the Lord
made the world; then lie made germs; then he
made Germans.” No mention about when He made
Prussians.... H.A.T.: Bradlaugh did refuse to take
the oath and insisted on his right to affirm. Such
matters are of everyday occurrence in courts, but
this was the first time the question had arisen in
the House of Commons. The test is what is binding
on the conscience. If a Chinaman were elected to
the Commons, and said that his conscience could
only be bound by the guillotining of a rooster at
the Clerk’s table, he would, presumably, be given
the bird. Bradlaugh said the oath would not bind
his conscience, but the affirmation would. The
question of “allegiance” never arose. No dispute
upon such a point would have even been dis-
cussed .... 11. J. 11.: The poem is laboriously dull.
. . . . J.A.T.: It doesn’t quite succeed in being verse.
....Austin B.: Weak poetic tea....A.C. (S.A.):
Sorry to. disappoint, you, but it is worth nothing to
us R.D.R.: We must return .the verses. But you
are' laboring under a misapprehension. Only hope-
less amateurs and foolish triflers are cast
out with derision. Any contributor for whom
there is hope gets all possible help.... Grace
N.: You can’t brandish the literary slapstick here.
. ...Lorna W.: All thoroughly commonplace....
Last: Appropriately enough, the poem blue-
pencilled itself out. .. .L.R.F,: Too dull even
for our basket. We’Ve sent it to a_ loathed
contemporary’s. .. .K.G.: The indignant \ ampire s
reply has been done to death. There are
times when we are very sorry that Kipling evei
Vamped so furiously. (P.S. —lie must have been
very wild with some girl the day he wrote it.)....
Sii'ref: Laid to rest. Our deepest sympathy..
Frank A. E.: Something in the idea, but you don t
extract it Bimbah: Cannot make any use of a
sort of posteript to an old, hackneyed poem..,.
Scorpio: Yes, it’s annoying; but the verse is poor,
and we can't star your little grievance in times like
the present M.B. (S.M.): Your Christmas hopes
are hereby dashed A.D.M.: Poems seem to be
deserving cases. That is the best we can do for
you to-day.... W.T.8.: Some color in it, but its
steam gets low before the finish... .J.L.: Poem paws
tlie air too much.
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Samuel G.: We believe you when you say that
nobody helped you. We would have believed you
if you had told us you did it without the assistance
even of a dog—or that the dog had done it without
your assistance G.V.S.D.: Gag and drawing re-
turned to Sydney address lion S.: Limp
as a • jellyfish S.T.: Art too crude and.
ideas not worth while Ralph J.: Think again.
Is that hot-water idea quite your own ?. , . . E.M.G.:
Nothing doing. . . .R.M.: Is there really a joke con-
cealed in it? D.O’s.: Your drawing is an injus-
tice to (1) Ireland, (2) Art Lance M.: Very
little in idea, nothing at all in drawing. ...K.A.
(M.L.) : Not a bright idea, and you can’t treat it.
....Jas. E. B.: Too late for everything but the
basket G.W.C.8.: One cartoon is an obvious
imitation of a 1911 Christmas number verse-decora-
tion. Both outed.
Monsignor Robert Hugh Benson, the late
eminent English ’vert and mystical novelist,
left a couple of plays behind him. One —
“The Upper Room” —is Biblical. The
other is a dramatic study of present-day
social conditions. This latter is to be
produced simultaneously in London and
New York. The late Monsignor is repre-
sented in the London variety theatres by a
well-written dramatic monologue, “Joan of
Arc’s Appeal to the British Nation,”
recited by a comely young actress in the
shining armor of the Maid of Orleans. It
is a topical success and goes well in the
martial mood of the hour.
A humorous sign of the times is the re-
moval of the word “Herr” from musical pro-
grammes. Every German professor of
“moosik and singing” is a plain “Mr.” nowa-
days. And to put the transformation quite
beyond doubt, he has mostly ceased to cheat
the barber.
London theatres having been hard hit by
the rigorous enforcement of “lights out,”
Herbert Tree (His Majesty’s), Charles
Wyndham (Criterion), and Frederick Harri-
son (Haymarket) made the experiment of
reversing the usual order of things. That is
to say, instead of six evening performances
and two matinees, they started.to give regular
afternoon performances and only a couple of
evening ones. The early results were little
short of deadly.


At the War.
‘CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
Obra,” Boot Polish.
o
V
.v>>
r.
m
.•a;-
w;
Or*
.N
■i-S£
1
J \-y<
m
fcs
->W/
; V*r\
•AV»
&
-i'
iiiillli;
V\
CvV\
V
si
/
«i
m
/
fijjh
\
$
; X)
tZiSniSnr ■ i
g||
I:
iY\
111 I
m
M
KS
lls
U ; I
■Vu
111
\s
i ’;!•;{
)
Jl
m
„\v
.\ 1
<0
:Sgi
U
ss
feX
K.*
V'V
v iv
> v 5 V'
i
II
a\
I
M
w
w
ss
11
m
m
YJ
m.
-/
V$
if
%X\
MKHfI
WW?
£*£ls;
ill
M
hi
• !:-zps«ks«2 v* .v.ie>
J
'". ; .:V
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Shows John French,
And Joffre too,
Where the move
That wins the fight
May be made
Before the night.
Soon as Chunder
Had his say,
Joffre sends
The wires away.
Bright and ready,
As you see,
Is the “COBRA”
Strategy.


Solid Silver Hand Mirror,
hand embossed, full size, 30/-
Cigar and Ash
pure Silver-plated on
Metal, 7/6.
Tray,
W hite
Jewel Casket, pure Silver-plated, richly
bossed. Size sin. x Din. £2,
Salad Bowl and Servers. Pure Silver-
plated Mounts. A 1 Quality. Handsomely-
decorated Floral China, 25/-
Honey Jar, pure Silver-plated,
7/6.
Toilet Pincushion, Watch
Stand and Ring Holder,
pure Silver-plated, 10/6.
Postage Paid
on all Goods.
DAINTY GIFTS
for Everybody.
Just the most practical and
acceptable ideas. We have
thousands of others in our
GIFT BOOK. Write for a copy.
Specimen Vase,
pure S i 1 v e r-plated
Nickel Silver, hand bur-
nished, gilt lined.
6in 10/6
Tin 12/6
Bin 15/6
Rose Bowl, handsomely hand em-
bossed, gilt lined, with gilt gauze, mounted
on Ebony Plinth. 4in., 50/-; 6in.,
00/-
Gent.’s Solid Silver Plain Con-
cave Military Hair Brushes, Sil-
ver-drawn Bristles, in Silk-lined Morocco
Case, full size, £2, £3, £3/10/-
Shaving Cup, pure Silver-plated,
richly engraved, gilt lined, highly
burnished, 13/6.
Postage Paid
on all Goods.
Scent Pump,
Solid Silver Mount
Handsomely Em'
bossed, Cut Glass
Bottle, 20/-
Smaller Sizes;,
7/6, 12/6.
807-817 George St.,
SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS,
Gent.’s Automatic
Razor Strop, pure Silver-
plated, richly embossed,
13/6.
Sauce Boat, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 Quality, Beaded Edge, Em-
bossed Handle and Feet, 25/-
Manicure Set, Solid Silver Mounts. Cut
Glass Powder Jar. Complete in Silk-lined Case,
20/-
Opp. Railway Station,
SYDNEY.
ft
\
>9.
n V—H..J
Heeoinmended bu AfedlcaJMen
THE DOCTOR’S DECREE
LEwiJH
Disinfectant
is the most powerful known. The admixture of a very little Pacolol with
water makes a strong- antiseptic solution in which
germs cannot live.
BRITISH MADE.
COMPARATIVE GERMICIDAL TEST
made by
The London Hospital Hedical College.
Disinfectant, Co=Efficient. Test 24hrs. culture on B. Typhosus
PACOLOL 3.18 ~ ~
LYSOL 2.27
This conclusively proves that PACOLOL
is much more effective.
Can be obtained of all High=class Chemists and Storekeepers.
In Bottles or Drums.
Eor further particulars apply to H. A. REEVES, Q.P.O. Box 2499, Sydney, N.S.W.
y' •
•••
.. «


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
Twice Daily* at 2.30 and 8.
Twice Daily, at 2.30 and 8.
IvO L I THiEAT It E, SYDNEY.
THE TIVOLI FOLLIES.
ISABELLE D’ARMOND. MDLLE. FATIMA.
SOHO TRIO. JACK HASKELL.
MONTGOMERY WOLF. VERA PEARCE.
ALVARETTO, REGO AND STOPPIT.
Box Plan at Theatre and Nicholson's.
’Phone 9942 for Reserves.
' IVOLI
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
ODIVA.
MOONEY & HOLBEIN. ALFREDO.
THE ASCOTS.
NOBLE & BROOKS. CHESTER KINGSTON.
WRIGHT & DIETRICH.
LA MAZE TRIO. LAURA GUERITE.
Box Plan at Glen’s. PRICES: 4/-, 3/-. 2/-, 1 /-■
ini M A .1 E S T Y ’ S. BYDN E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY,
In the lively, Laughing, Lilting Success, •
THE GIRL ON THE EILM.
Direct from the London Gaiety.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
ALACE tlh EATt RE, SYDNEY.
Lessee BEAUMONT SMITH.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
The funniest of all French comedies,
WHO’S THE LADY?
EVERY AFTERNOON AT 2.15.
The First Real Australian Children’s Play.
SEVEN LITTLE AUSTRALIANS.
A Dramatisation of Ethel Turner’s delightful Aus-
tralian Children’s Story. Plan at Paling’s.
EVERY AFTERNOON THIS WEEK.
■pilE WHITE CITY, SYDNEY.
Y
OPEN FROM 2 TO 11 P.M. DAILY.
Just keep your eye on that
NEW YEAR’S EYE CARNIVAL,
on from 7.36 to 12.30 a.m.
FANCY DRESS —FIREWORKS —CASH PRlZES—
hands around and Auld Lang Syne at midnight.
NEW YEAR’S DAY —OPEN ALL DAY,
from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m,, ,
SPECIAL HOLIDAY PROGRAMME.
Free Shows. Promenade Concerts.
CONTINUOUS DANCING IN THE BALLROOM.
ADMISSION SIXPENCE.
Children Half-price every afternoon.
T. H. ESLICK, C.E., General Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY
Lessee FRANK MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
FRED NIBLO & JOSEPHINE COHAN
And J. C. Williamson’s Popular Comedy Players,
in another George M. Cohan Comedy,
B JiOADWAY JONHS.
Plans at Paling’s.
Day Sales White Rose.
AI) EE PHI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGIIBV, LTD.
The Stupendous Pantomime Extravaganza,
THE BABES IN THE WOOD
Presented by a Star Aggregation of Pantomime
Musical Comedy. Revue and Vaudeville Talent.
PANTOMIME TWICE DAILY,
at 2 and at 7.45.
Popular Pantomime Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. __
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
The picture block theatres.
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller. General Manager.
iIK KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager: WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVENINGS at 7.30. Matin6es Wed. & Sat. at 1.30.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Gorgeous and Mirth-Provoking Pantomime,
SIN-BAD THE SAILOK.
MAGGIE MOORE as MRS. SINBAD.
Plan Allan's. Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
i Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present their Pantomime
Extravaganza,
CINDERELLA.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices: 65., 45., 2s. and Is.
Theatre roy a l, Melbourne.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present
MURIEL STARR
in
BOUOHT AND PAID FOB,,
By GEORGE BROADIIURST.
PRICES: Dress
Stalls, 4/
s (_4k:le and Reserved Stalls, 6/- ;
; GaLery, 2/-. Plan at Allan's.
BIN CESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JANUARY 2.
Geo. Willoughby, Ltd., present the Sensational
Drama,
THE WOMAN PAYS.
Prices: 2/-, 1/- and 6d.
Plan at Pianola.
Esplanade, st. kilda, Melbourne.
Direction iNIGEL BROCK.
THE GREEN HANDIES.
EVERY EVENING at 8.30.
Prices 2/- and 1/-. NO BOOKING FEE.
BIJOU T II E A T R E, MBLBOOBN E.
FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON, 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
“LITTLE HIP” AND NAPOLEON THE GREAT,
THE RHODESBURYS; GOULD BROS, and CLAR-
ENCE SISTERS and BROTHER; also the GRAFT-
ERS CO in the Musical Revue, “THIS IS THE
TFE 99
'Prices: 2/6, 2/-, II- & 6d. MatijiSes: 1/6, 1/- & 6fL
IOYT'S PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
H
BEST AND MOST.
three big shows.
OLYMPIA, Princes Bridge.
NATIONAL TU'EATRE, Bourke Street (Eastern end).
HOYT’S OWN, Bourke Street, centre (now building).
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL.
!HcH&c A R R O L L
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the Ceneral Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTIIWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
/
*/a
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS*
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive yrstt. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia,
Missing Friends.
ILL SAM BRECKENRIDGE (of
V? Newton-Stewarfc), or anyone knowing
his whereabouts, please communicate with
K. E. ELDER, Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney,
OUR UNRELIABLE DOLLAR FRIEND.
A few years ago, one misty morning; when
the world was still young and frivolous, and
Bill Lyne was alive, and the debt wasn’t
so big as it is now, and the great world-war
hadn’t been dreamed of, a United States
fleet came to Sydney, and talked to us words
of comfort through its nose. It held out the
right hand of friendship, and extended the
cocktail in its left hand. There was more
applause than usual; also, more enthusi-
asm about brotherhood. The two branches
of the Anglo-Saxon race were mentioned,
and so on. Still, many people were haunted
by the idea that the United States was a
very unreliable dollar relative, and that they
viewed the British Empire as a foolish and
casual sort of dog to be made use of as
opportunity served. The British Empire cer-
tainly has been useful. To quote only one
instance —when the very big United States
fell heavily on the crumbling little kingdom
of Spain it was Britain’s plain and obvious
support which prevented any other States
helping the small kingdom against the large
republic. And Uncle Sam was grateful—
with a careful eye to the immortal dollar.
He didn’t give John Bull a trade prefer-
ence or anything of the sort, but he was
affable, and threw up his hat —not his best
one, but an old contraption that didn’t
matter.
* * *
The war has, to some extent, shaken
John Bull’s old confidence in “the other
branch of the Anglo-Saxon race.” No com-
munity ever posed more strenuously
humanity in war-time, for the Hague Con-
vention, for the Palace of Peace, for the
rights of non-combatants, for the rights of
neutrals, and for all the pious theories of
the age. Its signature was put to everything
which could be classed as mild, humane and
respectable. Yet it is the one State of any
account which refused —lest it should aggra-
vate the German —to even protest when the
Kaiser’s crowd burst up all the rules which
had been made with a desire to render strife
less horrible than it used to be. It was
foremost in theory and advertisement, but in
practice it occupied the extreme rear.
Although, under the Monroe doctrine it con-
stitutes itself, in a sense, the guardian of
North and Central and South it
went out of its way to explain that a Ger-
man invasion of Canada would not neces-
sarily be regarded as a contravention of the
Monroe creed, and need not rouse the
republic to action. There is a very large
German population in certain parts of the
States not far from the Canadian border, and
many of these are men of military training.
Much talk pervaded the air at one time
about the raising of a private army among
this population, and about a private inva-
sion of Canada. Seeing that Canada has
been invaded before now by a private army
from the States, while Uncle Sam’s official-
dom looked on, the idea didn’t seem utterly
preposterous. Just about here some honest,
or astute, politicians at Washington pointed
out that a Federal force of 90,000. men, scat-
tered over a country about the size, of Aus-
tralia, would be a poor device for keeping order
should any trouble of the sort arise ; but the
demand for an increase of the forces was
strongly resisted by the folk in power, on
the ground that the time was inopportune,
and any movement of the sort might seem
hostile to Germany. An attempt, to expose
the inefficient condition of the United States
navy made a certain amount of progress, but
it is also being strongly discouraged. Possi-
bly a strong fleet, like a strong army, might
annoy Germany. And though, under the
Monroe Doctrine, the United States has
constituted itself, in some sense, the guardian
of the whole continent, it is worth noting
that little Chili is putting in its protest
single-handed, against the recent attempt of
the Germans to use islands off the American
coast as bases and supply depots for their
wandering squadrons. The protest is some-
what belated for a bull-ant republic like
Chili, which generally gets early to the fray ;
but it may be that the small country was
waiting to see if the big one would move.
In other words, it was possibly hunting for
the Monroe Doctrine.
A constant complaint, since the war
started has been that United States traders
were turning an honest but unfriendly ten-
dollar piece by supplying contraband goods
to the belligerents. That, of course, meant
the blockaded or partially blockaded bellige-
rents —Germany and Austria —for the big
Allies hold the sea, and they can always find a
gun and a cartridge and a crust for the
small. Allies without the aid of foreign
blockade-runners. With a beaming confi-
dence the United States authorities accepted
ships’ manifests as proof of the nature cf
the goods, and if copper and such-like wore,
put in as cotton it wasn’t Uncle Samuli .1
affair. The proceeding might not be abso-
lutely illegal, but it certainly showed no en-
thusiasm for the “elder branch of the Anglo-
Saxon community.” Unfortunately this system
led, as a matter of necessity, to an assertion
of the right to search United States vessels,
and search means stoppage, and stoppage may
mean trouble or even confiscation. So with
great apparent reluctance a measure is pro-
mised to stop the export of contraband goods
to Germany and Austria; but how far the
measure will be enforced is another matter.
Incidentally a cablegram sets forth that a
United States citizen has devised a new
gun, which will throw a spray of molten
and boiling metal at an enemy, and that he
is offering this horror to any belligerent who
will pay enough dollars for it. The story
may be true or it may be false, but it is
very circumstantial. And though projectiles
of this sort are wholly contrary to. all the
Hague Convention and Palace of Peace doc-
trines, and despite the fact that there is a
serious doubt concerning the right of a
neutral to supply horrible engines of de-
struction to warring nations, there is lack
of information about the inventor, or
alleged inventor, being put in gaol
and the specifications of his device
being burned by the common hangman, or
electrocutioner, or the person who fries
niggers on suspicion. In short, a feeling
prevails that the United States, as a mem-
ber of the Anglo-Saxon brotherhood, has
been tried and found wanting. Assuredly
the affection is not what it was on that
misty summer morning when a brown-
colored squadron came into Sydney Harbor,
and the populace cheered till its hat blew
off, and got drunk on fraternity, and blew
the froth off the Stars and Stripes out of
a “pewter pot till long after closing time.
The War of Half the World.
The week’s war news consists mostly of frost
and snow and 'mud, with the usual accom-
paniments of slaughter and misery. The
Anglo-Franco-Belgian Army still plods on,
pounding the Germans out of their trenches
with big guns, or prodding them out with
bayonets, but it taaes a long time and a great
heap of dead to decide the ownership of a
mile of ground. Still the Germans are
steadily on the back track. The hunky Rus-
sian upholds the heavy end of the log. He
is conducting the fight with Turkey almost on
his own. He has the whole Austrian trouble
on his hands, save for such assistance as
Servia can afford. And he carries nearly
half of the dead weight of the Kaiser. So the
Bear in Sheep’s Clothing is a busy Bear. He
still contrives to keep the Prussian homicide
out of Warsaw, and toils like an indefatigable
Bear to recover his lost city of Lodz. It has
been reported, all in one week, that the
Emperor of Austria is dying and has received
the last sacraments; that he is in splendid
health ; also that he is so depressed because
King Peter’s battered legions recaptured
Belgrade that he may double up and perish
at any moment. The Bulletin’s convic-
tion that he died many weeks ago remains
unaltered. A few German airmen have
dropped bombs in England, and one of them
struck nothing in particular, but made a
monstrous hole in the ground. The German
fleet still lies low in its fortified harbors, and
some British ships have lately been making
demonstrations, in the hope of tempting the
speechless and reticent squadron to come
out. Three indications of the size of the
disturbance are: (1) that Britain hopes,
some time during 1915, to have 2,000,000
soldiers in the field; (2) that the
killed, wounded, prisoners and missing on the
German-Austrian side are roughly guessed
at 3,000,000 or 3,500,000 (no information
as to the Allies is available) ; and (3) that
the French Legislature has voted over
£400,000,000 to keep the tricolor flying.
When the trouble is finished it will take 2000
years of steady labor to pay the bill. A
strange report is to hand that a Turkish
army of some size has started to march —to
tramp or walk or hoof it —from Damascus
to Egypt. The distance is over 350 miles,
and the chances of that footsore host arriving
in time to do anything of importance seem
small. The sick Kaiser —who comes of a
family in which cancer is hereditary—has
recovered, on paper, at least three times
during the week, but an impression still pre-
vails that his end is adjacent. The German
Government, being desperately hard up these
days, has conceived the idea of raising a com-
pulsory loan of £19,000,000 from Belgium, of
all places in the world —the little, beggared
country which hasn’t a crust or a pair of
boots to bless itself with. It is difficult to
imagine anyone save a German getting that
sort of idea. It is worth a mention in pass-
ing that rather over half the world in area,
and over half of it in population's now busy
killing its brother —not to mentlfn its father
and sister and wife and the kid—all by
reason of the frenzy of the Great Assassin
with the sore ear and the withered arm at
Berlin.
The Prussian’s Apologist.
Britain has some strange friends in its own
household. As a case in point a rather well-
known cleric, Dr. Clifford, has been allowed
to hold forth in this-wise in the Contem-
porary Review :
This must not be forgotten when the war is over.
The temptation to retaliate on a vanquished foe is
mighty, and never was it more .so than it will be in
this case, not even in that of Napoleon. For this
war has been carried -out with calculated and defi-
nitely planned cruelty. The Kaiser has stirred the
hatred of the world against him; and it seems im-
possible to inflict too heavy a penalty. But it is
possible. The disturber of the peace of the world
must be seized and restrained; but care must be
taken that he, and the people he represents,
are not so humiliated that they will regard their fate
as the starting-point for a future war. The blunder
of Germany in 1870 must not be repeated. Mili-
tary necessity and justice will make great demands,
and they must be met; but in a spirit and with a
wisdom that considers the welfare of future genera-
tions even more than the wrongs and woes of the
past.
The allusion to “the blunder of Germany in
1870’’ (presumably the writer means 1871)
would almost imply that France had started
the present war as a matter of revenge. The
boundless Prussian created the war with
Denmark in 1564 and the war with Austria
in 1866. In an astute sort of fashion he
prodded the dying Emperor Napoleon 111.
into war, and robbed France of two pro-
vinces and an immense indemnity. In 1875
he devised a scheme for the complete dis-
memberment of France, and was only staved
off by Russian interference. In 1914 he fell
on France again (also on Belgium) without
any pretence of a quarrel, and announced his
intention of shortly capturing Paris. It was
understood that, unless France could hold up
its end in the fight, it had come to the dead
finish. Now that half the world is at war
because the inflated Prussian declares that
he is the rightful inheritor of the earth, it
is a trifle early for an English authority to
propound the idea that the great disturber
should get easy terms, lest he and his coun-
try should feel wild and start a new war. In
other words, it is early to suggest that an
effort should be made to inspire gratitude
and friendship in the bosom of the Kaiser’s
crowd by leavPg it strong enough to
make another \v mid-conflict in a few .years.
All the evidence goes to show that the only
chance of peace lies in taking the junker’s
gun away from him, and making him dis-
mantle his army and his fortresses, and put-
ting him under heavy bail for future good
behavior. It is an easy-going country with
a very easy-going cinsorship which allows
persons like this Contemporary Review man
to be at large.
G. Rossi Ashton, the old-time Bulletin
artist, who has lately been doing lightning
sketches at music-halls in London, has been
working lately on the largest poster ever
seen thereabouts. The subject is a stage full
of 9ft. vaudeville “stars,” and the sheet will
occupy 1752 sq. ft. of hoarding.
“Curse o’ Moses”: The cranial index of
the Englishman is about 75 or 76; that ot
the Celts, Latins, Greeks, Frenchmen and
Russians 82 or thereabouts. Tfie typical
Teutonic head gives by the same mode of
measurement an index of about 7 Z. t s
head allied to that of the negro and Rpd
Indian. This fact is not generally men-
tioned in polite society, but who
likes to grub into Taylor’s “.Origin of the
Aryan” will find all the details of the phe-
nomenon and some lively comment on l the
characteristics of the white man with
savage top-end. All Germans 'have not the
Teutonic skull, but German princes and
barons and things are never seen in the
streets without it.
An apparently-sane person who at any
rate is still at large has been assuring the
Adelaide dailies that he can stop the war
if others will help. The idea is to assemble
a crowd —40,000 is modestly suggested -
robed in white and bearing palm-leaves, and
just go and stand between the two armies.
Then, if the Kaiser shot them down, the
World would rise against him in horror,
and if he didn’t the war would have to stop.
This paper declines to point out the
objections to the scheme. It merely records
the fact that people who can seriously talk
like that continue to exist. The fact that
they do, and that they have votes, accounts
for many things that would otherwise be
mysterious.
Hobart, having decided that its craqked
white elephant, the incomplete Ridgeway
reservoir, is past mending, has scrapped it,
and the proposal to bring water froip the
Styx is again to the fore. The pipes would
start about 800 ft. above sea-level, cross the
Plenty, pass Molesworth, follow SoreH Greek
and, at Glen Lusk, would bore underground
like a worm, emerging 9000yds. further down
and going on to the New Town rivulet. Ex-
pert J. W. Fraser, commissioned by the Gov-
ernment to report, states that 8,000,000 gals,
of water per day would be available, apart
front the quantity now in use for irrigation ;
that the quality is excellent; and) that the
catchment area is unsuitable for settlement
or, for the most part, even for grazing. All
of those things Hobart suspected. What
causes the real anxiety is that 40 miles ot
piping, with syphons and valves, _
and so on, would run away with £252,000;
and after that there would be the reservoirs
and reticulation pipes to think about.
Some of the pressmen engaged at the
Commonwealth Parliament fell foul of the
House Committee with unpleasant results
before the session closed. Believing them-
selves to have a grievance about privileges,
they “posted” a list in their work-rooms
(in one case headed “the lousy list ) ot
members who were to receive “no favors or
cheap advertisements.” The President of
the Senate and the Speaker of the Reps,
promptly got to work. The Argus editor
was staggered to receive a copy of the list,
accompanied by the intimation that until
an apology had been received no member
of his staff would be allowed in the Galleries.
He apologised handsomely, and intimated
that as soon as he discovered the-responsible'-
party something very sudden would happen.
The Age replied similarly, and, after some
sparring, so did *H. TV. Peters, the chairman
of the Press Gallery Committee, who per-
sonally had endeavored to prevent the,
foolishness. Then the President and
Speaker said they were glad the incident
had closed. But at the newspaper offices it
hadn’t closed by a long way.
“Holly Blight’s” emphatic protest: —
The thing I hate riiost about Christmas is the
custom (perpetuated at great loss ofi time and
temper by women) of sending out expensive cards
assuring friends and relatives that you bear them
no animosity, and don’t wish that they may fall down
and break their necks, and be burnt out and acquire
cross-eyed twins on a wet washing-day when the
drains are choked. If custom only sanctioned send-
ing out once a year neatly-printed cards expressing
hatred and contempt, and solemnly warning enemies,
fools and bores generally not to call again, I would
become one of the staunchest supporters of Santa
Claus. My friends know, without any telling that
I wish them well, year in and year out, and I refuse
to bother them with an annual affidavit to that
effect. But most of my enemies and bores are com-,
pletely unaware of my real sentiments towards
them. It would make life simpler and sweeter if,
once a year, we were privileged to clear the social
decks with neat, gilt-edged cards with a spray of
Remember-Me-Nots embossed in one corner, and'.a :
desire in another corner that the recipient may have
a Christmas of dust and ashes and a miserable New
Yeaf.


Hanking. Public Companies, &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—•
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
Security and Satisfactory
Interest
are the loading features of this Institution.
Deposits received from 1/- upwards.
Interest paid at 3i% on first £200, and 3%
on excess to £500.
The Dank has 130 Branches and over 500
Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices.
DEPOSITS Guaranteed by the Government.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. II. DAVIKS, Secretary.
THE.
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £385,000.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
Hon. ROBERT PIIILP, M.L.A. ;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
.Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL
SUBSCRIBED..
PAID-UP (30th June, 1914)
RESERVE FUND
£2,000,000
£1,198,679
£1,195,591
£45,000
HEAD OFFICE: George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Siieldon,
Esq.; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank N.
Yarwood, Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysagiit, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act-1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. . . .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 166,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1593 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ;
James Love, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - KRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up . .
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital . .
£2,000,000 0 0
1,730,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
£5,730,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Coiien, Esq. ... . . Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., and W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birch in Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton: N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of Qeui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares . . . . . . 500,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,000,000) Paid-
up . . . . . . . . . . 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,601,608
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts
all other usual Bankini
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
business.
The Colonial mutual Qife
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life . Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability.; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLEINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office fcr- New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts. O.M G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary,
Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA. ENGLAN D.
ORMONDE
OR AM A
ORVIETO
OSTRRLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES
OMRAII
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
f l,s .teaniers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
w,? T a i li,lg ever l’ fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
3 2 Martin Place, Svdnev.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), KARA-
TONGA and PAPEETE (TAHITI).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE, in connection
svith all United States and Canadian
Railways.
*The Finest and largest steamer trading between
Sydney and San Francisco.
Panama Pacific Exhibition opens at San Francisco
February, 1915.
Around Pacific Tours, returning from Vancouver
by Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line or via
Japan and China.,
Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
♦CAIRNS
(♦Transhipping for
Ihis and other
Queensland ports)..
NOimi.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Jan. 2.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Jan. 6.
Leaves Sydney Jan. 9.
PEREGRINE (3500 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Jan. 13.
Leaves Sydney Jan. 16.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Jan. 2.
QUEENSLAND COASTAL MAIL STEAMERS.
(Under contract with Commonwealth Government.)
s.s. COOMA (4000 tons) leaves Brisbane every Friday
at 10 a.m. for TOWNSVILLE, calling at GLAD-
STONE, FLAT TOP and BOWEN, connecting at
TOWNSVILLE with t.s.s. MOURILYAN for ports as
far as COOKTOWN.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
UNDER NEUTRAL FLAG
TO
AMERICA and ENGLAND.
OceanicSteamshipCompany
10,000, tons, Twin Screw Steamers, 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Llovds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
SONOMA . .. | Jail. 10 | Mar. 13 | May 8 I July 3
VENTURA .. | Fell. 13 j April 10 | June 5 | July 31
The San Francisco Panama Exposition is open
February-December, 1915. Tickets issued to London
via San Francisco and back by any Suez Line.
Tel. 2283 City. Apply—44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
m-
: £
Is
To PAPUA and PACIFIC ISLES
To Papua.
To Solomon Islands.
To the New Hebrides.
SEND FOR PARTICULARS OF FARES AND SAILINGS TO
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS:
£3,500,000
£2,500,000
£3,500,000
£9,500.000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Maclvellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President. .
Richard Binnie, Esq. '
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
AUDITORSWiIIiam Harrington Palmer,
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Esq. Shepbeard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George St.. Sydney. London Office 29 7 hreadneedie St., E.C.
347 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and 'Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the world.
-T RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy aiul Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
Oomnwmwaltb
=-iiS f P Aklr
Mnh Australia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
Open
•for all
General Banking Business
in the
principal
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
Cable remittances made to. ami drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and collected.
Letters of credit issued to any parto; the world. Bills negotiated or for warned for collection Banking and
Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth, United Kingdom and abroad.
Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Saving's Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at
Deposits
from
1 1- £3OO 2000
Post Offices
in Australia,
and Papua
Interest at
per annum
3%
' INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. DENIS >N MILLER, Governor.
PRUIPS’ PATRIOTIC FUNP ART UNION
Under the Patronage of the Hon. R. W. RICHARDS, Lord Mayor of Sydney.
TOTAL VALUE OF PRIZES, £lOOO.
FIRST PRIZE, VALUE £6OO, SECOND PRIZE, VALUE £lOO.
NETT PROCEEDS IN AID OF THE LORD MAYOR'S PATRIOTIC FUND.
On receipt of Postal Note, Post Office Order, or Stamps for 1/-, the Secretary will forward Ticket
to any address in Australia.
Do not delay ; help those dependent on our soldiers by buying tickets, and have the comforting
satisfaction of .knowing that you have contributed to the Patriotic Fund, and assisted a noble cause.
The Art Union wiR be drawn in Public on SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 13, and results advertised
on 13th, 14th and 15th FEBRUARY.
TICKETS, ONE SHILLING.
FROM ALL AGENTS, OR DIRECT FROM
Head Office: 715 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney. R. A. BARRY, Grand Secretary.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PJRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WARILDA (8000
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
Jan. 1(> and Feb. 13.
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steerage Passengers.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
INNAMINUKA, Jan. 2.
WOI.IjOWJvA, Jan. 10.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office,
(I. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
VIA NEW ZEALAND, FIJI AND
HONOLULU.
+-
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN-AUSTRAL ASIAN R.M.
LINE.
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND.
OPERATING THE LARGEST, NEWEST AND
FINEST VESSELS TRADING BETWEEN AUS-
TRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
SAILINGS :
•Triple-Screw Steamer, fitted with Cabins de luxe en
suite, Bedstead Rooms, Nursery, Laundry, Electric
Lift, t Twin-Screw Steamer.
Panama Pacific Exhibition opens at San Francisco
February, 1915.
AROUND PACIFIC TOURS, returning from San
Francisco by Union S.S. Co.’s Royal Mail Line or
via Japan and China.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” "Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” "Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwilluinbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply :
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up . . . . . . £545,634 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 155,476 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 79,500 0 0
£780,611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Canncn Street, London,
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
the teeth cleaned both
easily and thoroughly
Sc id hy local Che mi sis and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co..Manchester,Eng.


Hotels. &c.
George, hotel,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 10 - pet* day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
The GRAND HOTEL
WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND.
WELLINGTON'S LEADING HOTEL.
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT.
TARIFF FROM 12/6 PER DAY.
E. L. CHAFFEY, l’roprietor.
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 3q years ago the late Lord
Beaconsfield testified to the benefits
he received .rom Himrod’s
Asthma Powder, and every
post brings siiii.iar letters
to-day.
x
I
ATT
lit
fh.
«i
Famed for 40 Years.
Best remedy lor Asthma,
Hay F ever, Kose Cold, or
ordinary Cough.
Socd in Tins by all CJumuis and Stores
throughout Ausiruiasia .
&
V.)
/ -
K
<37
IP
Si
P
r>
704-Z
&
News From
The Sky.
The illustration depicts a happening
common in the great war—^- an airman
signalling by Morse Code with the aid
of a smoke box a message to the com-
mandant of a British force.
Can You Read This
Message ?
a
In Morse it spells
PRATT’S
»
In Plain English:
“The Finest Motor Fuel that
the World Knows/*
“ON THE HOP!”
A superb library volume, handsomely l
and bound; containing upwards ot
hundred of "Hops’’ best, diawmgs.
Bullftin size. Price, 21s.
rinted
Three
Full
PUMPS.
Manufactured by GWYNNES LTD., London.
HIGH-EEFICIENCY CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS FOR ALL PURPOSES.
the Thames, or 72 rivers as large as the Nile. . ~
Included in these Plants will be found the most Important, durable, economical and successful Pumping Installations m the wor .
FIG. 602.
We stock these in all sizes, from lin. to 12in., with
either single or double standards.
MOTOR-DRIVEN PRESSURE PUMP, to lift 600 gallons,
against a head of 800 ft.
GWYNNES’ PUMPS ARE IN USE ALL OVER AUSTRALIA.
Prices and Quality are Right.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM—
HAES & EGGERS LIMITED,
163 Clarence Street
SYDNEY.


i&S.
Fine Quality
FOOTWEAR
for Men
21/-
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
With a foundation of quality
materials, the finest points of
good shoemaking are made
distinctive in the GUINEA
FOOTWEAR of Pike
Brothers Limited. .. . Style
first —comfort to the very last.
21/- Pair. Boot or Shoe.
Black or Tan. The leather you prefer—the shape you like best.
PIKE BROTHERS LIMITED
Toowoomba BRISBANE. Townsville
A Hot Weather Trouble Avoided
TRUMILK (SKIM)
POWDER.
Place Powder on 1 top cold water and beat with Egg Whisk for a minute. Result—
beautiful milk free from germs, suitable for all purposes.
NO MILK GOING SOUR, . NO ICE NEEDED,
Ask your grocer for a small tin.
Queensland Agents: WEBSTER & CO. LTD., Mary Street, Brisbane.
New South Wales Agents: FOGGITT JONES & CO. LTD., Sussex Street, Sydney.
IN
BANANA LAND
On more or less slender evidence the man
in the street has made up his mind that the
general election is to be held on May 1.
Dr. Jean White, the experimentalist, hasn’t
given up hope of beating prickly pear. At
Dulacca she is cultivating the cochineal insect
in an enclosure, with a view to turning it
loose by-and-bye on the prickly pear and
watching the result. Years and years ago,
by the way, poet Edwin Arnold seriously
advised Australia to cultivate the pear with
a view to raising. abundance of cochineal for
commercial purposes.
In 1902 Jimmy Ah Lin, of Cairns, who
farmed 800 acres of sugar land, and whose
wages and expenses ran into £ll,OOO per
annum, headed a petition to Premier Philp
wherein the local Chinese described them-
selves as “the Backbone of Cairns.” To-day
the Cairns Chinese are calling on China to
stand by Britain. Evidently they now re-
gard themselves as the Backbone of the
Empire.
Townsville’s Tropical Diseases Institute
is up against a curious trouble. There being
probably less tropical disease in N.Q. than
in any other torrid country on earth, it can’t
get material to work on. Years ago Dr.
Ham, then president of the Board of Health,
objected to the founding of the institute on
the ground that “the Health Department
found it difficult to get material from the
North in connection with malaria and other
diseases. The proper place to study tropi-
cal medicine was in the field where tropical
diseases exist.” And Ham’s forecast is now
being verified.
“H.C.G.”: Reports from the front indi-
cate that the rifle fire of the Germans is
very deficient; and that is the more puzzling
because the kinsmen of William Hogzollern
in this country are very apt with the rifle..
Several clubs in Bananaland are composed
almost wholly of Germans, and they com-
pare more than favorably with the
descendants of John Bull as regards both
enthusiasm and efficiency. Provide them
with a range and they will do the rest. Pot-
hunting does not, apparently, possess any
charm for them; they take the game very
seriously. I have taken part in several
inter-town matches with them and have
always found that the social side of the
business is left to the other fellow. After
the shoot Hans saddles up and makes for
home, leaving the banquet behind him.
Queensland Ministers having alleged that
the N.S.W. Government had been attempting
to borrow in Queensland, Premier Holman
denies that this is so. It is, indeed, sor-
rowful to learn that Queensland is so stone-
broke as that.
The biggest individual cane-grower in
Queensland is said to be See Chin, of Green
Hills, Cairns, whose cane one year made
as much as 3000 tons of sugar. In the
Mackay district there are white men who
grow up to 2500 tons of cane, but the
great bulk of those who are considered
successful farmers don’t produce more
than 1200 tons per season. Budding
growers generally take off from 150 to 200
tons the first year, after which they rapidly
soar to the height of from 450 to 700 tons.
Brisbane affords a splendid example of
what the white man can do in the- way of
getting rid of an Asiatic pestilence. A
dozen years ago plague broke out in that
city, and even attacked the Queensland Club,
the hub of Northern Fat. On several subse-
quent occasions the curse reappeared ; but a
vigorous anti-rat campaign drove it belter
skelter, and Brisbane has now been “clean”
for about five years.
BEST WISHES.
HIS REVERENCE: “ There's half a crown for you, Pat. I hope you'll have a happy Hew
Year. Don't take too much drink and get into trouble."
PAT : "Thank ye, sorr. Same to you, sorr."
After a 25-years’ struggle Warwick has got
its “Via Recta” through by one vote. The
alleged Straight Way will give Warwick two
lines to the coast, while other country towns
continue to crawl to port by the time-
honored methods of 50 years ago. As a
Parliamentary engineer Warwick beats any
other town in Bananaland.
Bananaland seems to have the idea that
forests are signs that a country isn’t
civilised, and that it ought -to burn off at
least one a week. A report just made on
the Goodnight Scrub says “there is no'doubt
that the. lands, if cleared, would produce
good grass,” and it goes on to mention that
it would be merely necessary to destroy
280,000 young pines—say 160,000,000 super-
feet of timber when matured. There isn’t
a State in Australia which doesn’t think
that land is being wasted if it is only
growing timber, and Queensland has this
disease worse than the others. A lunacy
expert would call it paranoia, and a man
was sent to a lunatic asylum the other day
because he was suffering from it. The
Judge said he seemed all right; but a man
who nursed an insane grievance, and occa-
sionally chopped his supposed enemy down
to get him out of the way, pouldn’t be
right. On this judgment it looks as though
Queensland will have to be declared one
vast mad-house.
Musterin’ in the Pine.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The mornin’ sun is swingin’ up, the sky is
bonzer blue,
The boys is movin’ down the crick, a-ridiu’
three and two;
Each ’orse a-steppin’ springy and the bloom-
in’ air like wine,
For we’re goin’ out to muster —muster
weaners in the pine.
All down the misty billabong the white-
winged wood-duck fly,
And mobs of screechin’ cockies drift like
snow across the sky;
A wild dawg breaks from cover. ’Ear the
yells along the line ;
But the boss won’t stand no chasin’ —there’s
the cattle in the pine.
Now they’re crashin’ down the ridges. ’Ear
the boss’s stockwhip ring,
And the cattle dawgs a-yelpin’ out like
blazes on the wing;
And ye’re ’ead to foot with scratches.
"Whoop! yon murderin' lony-'orncd
swine!"
There’s a chance or two attachin’ to this
musterin’ in the pine.
Duck yer ’ead and dodge the branches—
Let yer ’at go—you’ve yer ’air ;
Ye’re lucky if yer kneepads ’as a inch or
two to spare.
With the gore and sweat all down yer face,
and round yer neck the vine,
Ho! ye’ll need a beauty-parler after muster-
in’ in the pine.
Now the long, ’ot day is over and the mist
is crawlin’ slow,
Like some boshter Persian carpet spreadin’
in the sunset glow ;
And all ’ands is sore and weary, and to grub
and nap incline —
And we’ll dream about to-morrow with the
cattle in the pine.
QUEENSLAND.
JACK SOMMERS.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, December 23, 1914.
My Dear Tiiargomindaii,—
To-night the Mayor and Mayoress made:
over 1000 children thoroughly happy by
loading them with toys and sweets. The
infants belong to soldiers and sailors on
active service. . It was a cheery thought,,
and one more likely to please the boys in
blue and khaki than any offering cast in.
their own direction.
The New Farm Bowling Club is still
going strong, and a brief hour or so ago-
hoisted the pennant of championship to its
masthead. There was an admiring collec-
tion of females when the battle-scarred
colors fluttered defiance to the wind.
The patriotically-inclined of Queensland
continue to heap up spare. cash (likewise
cash that is not so spare) for the various
war funds, yet there always seems to be a
v shot left in the locker for the relief of
smaller misfortunes. Hence, the concert
last week (the second) in aid of the
Christmas-dinner fund for Brisbane’s own
poor. I was sorry the audience was not
more numerous, but, then, I would have felt
the same if it had been twice as numerous.
Mrs. Gilbert Wilson, looking slim and
graceful in black; Gladys Frost, in coral
color; and Maibey Campbell, in white lace,
were the female portion of the programme.
To-day Mrs. Earwaker and her daughter,
Mrs. Frank Glynn Connolly, spread the
ice-cream and the frozen drink at
the Earwaker home at Wilston. Mrs.
Connolly, one of our most recent brides,
looked cool and pretty in blue and white.
Anybody can look cool in blue and white,
but few can look pretty. Winnie Sutton,
Mollie Ferrier and sister Dorothy floated
around in their bridesmaid dresses. Mrs.
Walter Markwell, an aunt of the new-
wedded girl, was handsome in a strange
and fascinating shade of rag known as night
blue. She is one of our best-dressed
matrons, and the garment seemed to wear
an imported expression. There’s something
that calls for reflection in a scheme of im-
porting fashionable frocks while exporting
unfashionable uniforms filled with the men
who make the frocks possible.
Harry Scales, the manager of the Red
Dandies, is to be married on January 11 to
Miss Maisie Redgrave. The wedding break-
fast will gladden the multitude at the
Claude Dampier home in South Brisbane.
By the time you read this “Hans the
Boatman” will be appearing at His
Majesty’s, when Harry Roberts (who has
the exclusive rights) will prove that
Arnold’s old show has still its punch.
Hilda Mallinson, an English girl who
spent several months in Queensland a year
or two ago, writes that even sleepy little
Ilkley in Yorkshire is providing beds for
about 50 wounded Belgian soldiers. All her
own cousins and her brother are, she says
proudly, “Kitchener’s men; not an officer
among them.” She says that England is
thrilling with pride in her lusty offspring,
and that she (Hilda, not England) is glad
to know that she has staked out a small
claim in Australia. Incidentally, England
has a small claim hereabouts. Treasurer
Barnes might give the figures on application.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
The next general election in Queensland
will be held under the Act of last session,
Avhich says, among other things, that “it
shall be the duty of every elector to record
his vote at every election held for the elec-
toral district on the roll of which he is
enrolled. But this provision shall not be
construed to compel any elector to vote con-
tingently under the provisions in that
behalf.” Within seven days after the polling
day the returning-ofticer has to post to every
non-voter a letter asking him (or her) what
he (or she) meant by such disgraceful con-
duct; and if the registrar isn’t satisfied with
the excuse, a tine of £2 may be inflicted.
It hasn’t yet been decided whether it will
be sufficient excuse to say that both candi-
dates were weighed and found to go only
about 13oz. to the lb., wherefore the elector
didn’t feel justified in putting his stamp on
either package.
“Busk”: Williamson, Ltd., is anxious for
the public to know that all the clothes worn
in the Melbourne pantomime are Australian.
Good! But how about the literary part?
Why is that also not made in Australia?
Years ago the humble hundred pounds given
for a pantomime came in handy for authors
like Marcus Clarke, Garnet Welch, Akhurst,
Eville, Carrington and Finn. They turned
out good work, carefully rhymed, well
punned (as the times demanded), abounding
in local hits. To be sure, Marcus said:
“Greville’s the author, not me” ; but for
ali that the comedian’s gags could not
obfuscate the author’s genius. No Aus-
tralian writer of to-day being good enough,
towering ability has to come from England
and the pens of such as Dix and Hickory
Wood. And the stuff? I can only describe
it as Sheridan did Sir Fretful Plagiary’s:
“Lumps of marl on a barren moor.” Come,
let the management have the exultation of
announcing that the Clothes and the Litera-
ture are of Australian production !
The Bridge.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw Germania, by a yawning gulf
That opened grave-like at her wounded feet,
Stretch out her hands as though to take th’
embrace
Of one who also proffered hands in vain
Across the mouth of that crevasse, which
gaped
And bade them bide asunder. Then it
dawned
Upon my waking eyes, Britannia ’twas _
Whose hand was sought in vain and vainly
proffered
Above that cleft enorme. And, as I looked,
I caught a voice that fell in thunder-tones
As though the Fates of old were vocal now:
“Ye twain whose blood hath flowed like
mountain flood,
Whose children fall and perish far and wide,
Whose widows pine beside their weeping
babes,
Not sooner shall ye clasp your hands in
friendship
Than this the gulf that opes to-day between
you
Is filled with bodies of your kindred dead,
That so a bridge is formed to give the access
Denied your hearts to-day. Fill up, fill up
The grave that grimly parts you till your
feet
Do And a footing on your pilfcd corpses
And hands may join in union o’er your
dead!”
* Si! * !|=
When last I looked two forms were bending
down
And heaving ghastly burdens in the deep ;
But still the gulf seemed wide and dark and
huge
As though ’twould never fill. The. vision
passed
With panoramic vistas crowding fast
Of endless falling forms. “Great God !” I
cried,
“Will that cleft never close?” And still
they bent,
Germania and Britannia at their toil,
Of building bridges with their dearest dead !
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


ter*
mrrfFT HOja i !!■ b ril
r ?
:
Mji
Si
»
«rs
SsS
r^i
-rTvV
v v
St£u»
SSSBjB
fi ** * *
m m
El H
DUHt.OP RUBBER c? -7-— ~
|gg'g£ jg " ' ■ pV >T7
If
. c
A
.: ....
—
’ • %-ir ..•
' r :'/•# ..-;a|
DursLoP^ &^ €S | l j S n s ou^ern Hemisphere - Area
*dcr
-M
ONLOp
OP
ss
o
cr
9
SOP
TP*
/
9
&
%
09
Ldsts
for
Ued
»>
c^r*
*
VAO
M
BiqVV^
\\v
ReU^
e < #/'
S
o Give
/§§ the >
Best Service
OP
52
Xv\ AX /
DUNLOP
TENNIS
w BALLS
.
0 9'KEL ty
m,
m
!V .
O'
■
J
A
//
*^<3S\jra ] d e L&
M
> >
ti «> ->
-3 rP
0>
GOODS
A
O'
K
/
for
/ .
/
Price
/
J HC
\ ■/ «r
V
The Name |
DUNLOP
stands pre-eminent in this Country *■
for the Highest Quality of I
RUBBER GOODS
They dominate in QUALITY
and SERVICE, and the demand
for “Dunlop” Branded Rubber
Goods is such that nearly 1400
people are solely engaged making
and selling the following
Motor Tyres Waterproof Garments -
Cycle Tyres Mining Goods
Vehicle Tyres Sporting Goods
Tennis Balls Engineering Requisites
Rubber Heels Plumbers’ Goods
Milking Machine Requisites
Hoses (Garden and Engineering)
&c., &c., &c.
The real value of the above Goods is
by the excellent service that
you can always rely upon #
when you specify
“ Dunlop” Brand.
* Illustrated List on Application
A? A?
DUNLOP RUBBER CO j
Founders of the
Pneumatic Tyre Industry
108 Flinders St., Melbourne
255 Clarence St., Sydney
103-105 Flinders St.,
Adelaide
m 67 King St, Perth
268-274 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane
95 Courtenay Place,
Wellington
116 Worcester St.,
Christchurch
, 53 Cameron St., Launceston
V» J


DON’T NEGLECT
YOUR HAIR
Your looks demand that you
should take care of it, make
it more beautiful, more lus-
trous, softer ; you can easily
and readily do so by using
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR
OIL
which nourishes, strengthens,
nurtures, and promotes the
growth of Fine Silky Hair:
you will notice an improve-
ment from the first time you
use it. Use it for your own
and your Children’s Hair;
Golden Colour for Fair Hair
Sold m three sizes by Stores,
Chemists, and Rowland’s,
67, Hatton Garden, London.
Avoid cheap imitations under
the same or similar name.
The coming Tourist Season should
find you equipped with a
HOSGIEL
Admittedly the Handsomest,
Warmest and Cosiest Travelling
Rug in the World I
Sold at all
tht Best Shops.
n
THE. GREAT REMEDY.
'q
W GOUT W
RHEUMATIC PILES.
1 lie severe pain of Rheumatism, Lumbago,
kta l ™* Keuraleta can be relieved by
r,. lbe Medicine that has
stood the test of J line. Purely vegetable
and 6 229 n strnn f d' T Sol(1 by all Drug” Stores
at Is and 2s 6d J ° n<1 ° n ’ England - in Box es
Wholesale Agents: Elliott Bros. Ltd..
__._ll lJ Fnnlding and (*o.. Sydney, and others.
dr
gd
fg
Here’s
_Why
DUPLEX
BRACES
FOR MEN OF ACTION
EDISON
Phonographs
No increase in the
price at present!
The new Customs Tariff shows an increase
in duty on phonograph goods, which
would, in the ordinary course, affect the
retail prices. But we are determined to
prevent this as long as we possibly can.
We have, fortunately, large stocks already
on hand, and, for the present, our prices
are positively the same as before the
revision of the tariff. This means a very
great deal to intending purchasers; it
means that if you buy NOW you make a
considerable saving.
It is almost certain that prices will
advance at no distant date, and you
should make up your mind AT ONCE
which model you prefer.
Call on your nearest Edison' dealer or
write for our descriptive booklet, sent
post free anywhere.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD.
(Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent St., Sydney.
JASON
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
Speed has its many fascinations and can be fully indulged in on a
Triumph.
There is no difficulty in obtaining a range of speeds from 5 to 50 miles
per hour instantly controlled without removing the hands from the
grips. Then the immense reserve' of power makes this machine an
ideal sidecar mount, economical, simple and always reliable.
Triumph?
Victoria : MILLEDGE BROS., 264, Post Office Place, Melbourne. New South
Wales : BENNETT & BARKELL LTD., 130-132, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
South Australia ; J HILL SONS, Representatives, 63, Gren r ell St.,Ade’aide
EYES & QROWLE, Local Distributors, 125, Pirie Street, Adelaide. West
Australia: The ARMSTRONG CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY,Hay St.,Perth
Queensland: The HOWARD MOTOR & CYCLE CO., LTD., 376-8, Queen
Street, Brisbane. Tasmania: J. BILYARD, The Havelock Cycle and
Motor Works, I4\ Elizabeth Street,- Hobart.
if-
X
l
4
\
Smokers and
Non-Smokers
find PEBECO TOOTH PASTE the best remedy for any
disagreeable taste. It makes your breatli sweet and
fragrant, and restores tinted teeth, without injury, to
their natural color. Pebeco is a complete and ideal
health course for the mouth and teeth.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube, with useful Book and interesting test, Free
for three penny stamps, on application to the
Manufacturer.
G. ARNOLD
(Dept. A), G O’Connell St., Sydney.
(WHOLESALE ONLY.) [6
[■&
22
HI MAGIC WAND
Q*iic£j
COLGATE’S
SHAVING STICK
Immediate Lather
■f-vbundant and Creamy
No fussing with a mug or rubbing
in with the fingers. Shorten your
shave with Colgate’s.
Sold everywhere
A trial size in a handsome nickled
box sent for 2d. in stamps.
COLGATE & CO.
Sole Agents: CHIPMAN, Ltd,
54. Margaret iitreet. SYDNEY,
WCKEUDBOX
r
acini
COLGATEs]
shaving
STICK
rOIGATE4co
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS
LOTION.
QUICKLY REMOVES
SKIN ERUPTIONS . . .
ENSURING A
CLEAR COMPLEXION
The slightest Rash, faintest
Spot, irritable Pimples, dis-
figuring Blotches, obstinate
Eczema disappear by applying
SULPHOLINE
Which renders the skin spot-
less, soft, clear, supple, com-
fortable.
For 42 Years
BOTTLES 1/- and 2/9.
SULPHOLINE
Has been the Remedy for
ERUPTIONS
PIMPLES
REDNESS
PSORIASIS
ROUGHNESS,
RASHES
ECZEMA
SCURF
ACNE
blotches
SPOTS
ROSEA
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists—
J. PEPPER & CO , LTD , Bedford Laboratories, LONDON, S.E , Eng
and can be obtained direct from them by post or from **’’
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removes the effect of Sunscorcli.
Start the New Year with a “PLUM” Razor.
Mi
fhe r way a to ensures ***** SatisfaCtion 191 5-
A “PLUM” RAZOR.
«-
comfortable shave every day in the year. J U 1 nave a
BE SURE AND ORDER A “PLUM.”
PRICE 10/6—Post Free.
We keep it in perfect order, free of charge, for two years.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- Th,-« n„„ , ,
All the Above Post Free. Send L u"
CRAIG & AITKEN, °*+
George street, svdnfv
established over 30 EY
The Victorian Permanent Building
Society (Melbourne)
Nominal
July, Loss. Reserves.
1898 ..£7307 £8,942
1899 . . 6649 3,293
1900 .. 3061 232
Deficit.
1901 . . 2235 2.0U3
1902 . . 1585 3,588
1903 .. 1472 5,060
1904 .. 2381 7,441
1905 .. 3120 10,561
Julv r , Loss. Deficit.
1906 ..£3033 £13,594
1907 .. 2941 16,535
1908 . . 8565 25,109
1909 .. 1385 26,485
1910 .. 9913 36,398
1911 .. 778 37,176
1912 .. 2793 39,969
Profit.
1913 .. 2048 37,921
1914 .. 4011 33,910
The long job of paying off the debts incurred
m the wild boom days of 20-odd years ago
was proceeding at a great rate; but drought
and the Kaiser have put the brake on pretty
hard. Just over a year ago the co. came to
a new agreement with the depositors, under
which something like ss. in the £ was to be
paid off “when the first of the substituted
deposit receipts shall become due,” and the
balance in 3.0 annual instalments, interest
meantime being paid at the increased rate
of 34 p.c. During the past year £28,972 of
debt has been shifted and there still remains
£109,369 to be got rid of on the terms men-
tioaed above. Against that there are
£>07,131 of assets —£24,962 less than in
IJlo. In other words, the society has during
the year paid £25,972 of debt with assets
valued in the books at £24,962, assisted by
current profits, which is very cheerful indeed.
Ihe whole position is shown in this table: —
, , . 1898. 1912. 1913. 1914.
Fixed deposits £251,155 £143,609 £131,911 £104,456
Mortgages . . 79,771 1,578 2,044
Other liabilities 8,279 5,016 4,469 4 913
Total debts . . 339,205 1.50,203 138,424 109 369
Advances .. 558,773 332,622 319,025 290.348
Payments m
arrear . . 19,734 8,996 8,313 7,780
Other assets.. 1,129 106 4,155 3,003
total assets.. 579,630 341,724 332,093 307,131
There is thus a margin of about £200,000
between assets and liabilities, so the credi-
tors needn’t worry. What the shareholders
will get out of it depends largely upon the
state of the market during the next few
years. It is possible that, in order to meet
the agreed-upon payments, assets may have
to be sacrificed ; but things will have to be
worse than they threaten to be if arrange-
ments can’t be made to avert forced sales.
Nominally the capital is £231,490 in £5
shares, and if the assets realise 20s. in the £
there is £4 ss. per share waiting for scrip-
holders.
* * * *
The Co-operative Credit Bank of Vic-
toria (Melbourne) :
Carried to De-
„ , „„„„ 1 rofits. Dividends.. Reserves, ficit.
A eb ” £ £ 6 4 p.c. =£46 £lO £B3
Aug., 1910. .72 6 „ „ 60 12 95
Feb., 1911.. 72 4 ” ” 60 22 117
Aug., 1911.. 62 4 „ 46 16 133
Forfeited capital. . 18 151
Feb., 1912.., 57 4 p.c. = 41 16 167
Aug., 1912. . 53 44 ~ ~ 44 9 176
Feb., 1913.. 41 4 40 1 177
Aug., 1913.. 59 44 „,, 49 10 i«7
Feb., 1914.. 60 44 „ 48 12 199
Aug., 1914.. 45 44 ~ ~ 48 196
Ibis little co. isn t out primarily to make
money for itself, and very likely it couldn’t
make much even if it wanted to. Its origi-
nal, and still its chief, business is to advance
money to intending purchasers at the Vic.
Civil Service Co-op. Stores and help to swell
the profits (or reduce the losses) of that con-
cern, which is its parent—though not one of
whom a youngster need be particularly
proud. Capital is £2184 and liabilities
amount to £395. Against that there are
loans of £2750 and cash and sundries of
£<4.
* * * *
J. Fielding and Co., Ltd., boxmakers,
printers and carton makers (Sydney), who
kf g ir!rinn a goodwill or paper asset
ot £SU(JO, shown hereunder as a deficit:
r. + „ „. Towards
bept., Profit. Dividend. Reserves. Deficit.
"1 , £5OOO
1911 Premiums on new shares £32 ! „ _
I £2750 10 p.c. = £1577 £1173 j 3795
1019 Premiums on new shares 38 3757
1913 " 9 rll 19 P-c- = 1801 1617 2140
1913 .. 2668 8„„ 1445 1223 917
Premiums on new shares 250 667
19U ... 2841 8 p.c. = 1445
That is excellent progress, assuming (as it
seems a fair thing to do) that the assets,
stock (£5652) and book debts
( ta.jo.j j have not been overvalued. The
original flotation wasn’t much of a success
the public taking only 5527 shares. Subse-
quently a few were got rid of at a premium ;
and m the past year 6000 more were mar-
keted—4ooo to sharehoiders at par and 2000
to others at 2s. 6d. premium. On these
shares 10s. has been paid up; yet, according
to the present balance-sheet, they don’t rank
for dividend until April, 1915. This £3250
(less a few pounds unpaid) has further eased
the financial position, so that on Sept. 30
total liabilities were £l7lB, while on the
other side book debts and cash ran to £4709
and stock to £5652. Seeing that the co
also over £9OOO in land and the
proposed expenditure on new plant will be
easily financed. Altogether the little but
growing concern has not onlv done remark-
ably well, but it has proceeded with notable
prudence—after paying for all repairs,
mamtenance and renewals, it has put by
£5(29 out of a total profit of £11,997.
* * * »
“Croson”: When the State sets opt on a
business, why can t it run the thing with the
prompt methods of the best Private Enter-
i£w n Whe ? Ihe1 he Vic - Parliament passed
its Workmen’s Insurance Act it provided a
lnsurance Office for the purpose in
tended, but allowed private cos. to compete
for business. I have, of course, to insure
such labor as I employ, and I would prefer
the State office ; but I have already wasted
much time, first in discovering the where-
abouts of the said office, and then in getting
a lot of unnecessary forms and putting
things in tram. I inally I wearied - ond
having been bombarded with circular’s and
fnto te thp p’ffi age m S f°a Privat€ COS- -.I dropped
0r,,? 19 office that does my fire insurance,
an d J t accident business com-
Si?!? ln 1° minutes.. The trouble with these
State undertakings is their notion that the
public exists for their benefit, instead of
vice versa.


NEW YEAR SUGGESTIONS
THE beautiful de-
sign and up-to-
da t e usefulness o f
the G.E. “ Uni Set”
appeals to every
woman.
The “ Uni Set” is a
complete Electric Cook-
ing Outfit, and enables
a dainty d i nne r or
“ Hurry-up bite ” to be
prepared at a moment s
notice. Let us demon-
strate it to you.
\
v,
>7
I'l
ukm%
For Mother
Nothing is too good for Mother, so give
her the best of all electrical gifts—a
Uni-Set Combination
Electric Cooking Outfit
which will help convert much of her heavy
housekeeping into light housekeeping, x
With this set she can boil vegetables, cereals and
eggs; percolate coffee; brew tea, warm baby’s
milk, fry and prepare all kinds of chafing dish
products. You can buy any one or all of the
various parts of the set at your convenience. _
THE “ Uni Set ”
device consists of
an Electric Disc
Stove of graceful lines,
and four cooking utensils
of pleasing appearance
—a double boiler for
cooking cereals, etc.—a
Chafing Dish —a lea
Samovar —and a Coflee
Percolator. The entire
set is of uniform design
and is attractively
nickelled.
n
0
“Mazda House,” Cr. Wentworth Avenue and
Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
BRISBANE (Q.): Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.),
Ltd., Edward and Charlotte Streets.
Agents
Cor. Queen and Little Collins Streets, .
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S„A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin & Wellington.
Tricks, Puzzles, Jokes, .Novelties.
Write for New Catalogue
—Post Free.
r
JOKER'S SNAKE CAMERAS.
An imitation of a camera, from which a large snake springs out.
Post free, 1/3. Larger sizes, 2/- and 3/6, post free.
WIRE PUZZLES—AII Ki^ds.
Six different Puzzles for 2/-, post free, or
12, all different, for 3/6, post free. !
THE PHANTOM CARD TRICK.
Five cards are shown. Anyone
mentally selects three. The five
cards are now dropped in a hat. Per-
former picks out the two cards not
selected. Someone puts hand in hat
to bring out the three selected cards,
but they have vanished, the hat being quite
empty. Wery bewildering and easy to work.
Post free, with full instructions, B<l.
Handkerchief can be used instead of hat, if
desired. We; can supply a sCt of 6 different
card tricks, in addition to the above, for
3/3, post free.
OurSpeciality-THE JOKER’S NOVELTY PACKET,
containing
“The Joker’s Plate Lifter.”
“The Joker’s Love Bond.”
“The Joker’s Squirt Camera.”
“The Joker’s Electric Push Button.”
These Four Good Jokes for 2/G, post free.
Our New Catalogue * wfiich is Post Free, is~a: Novelty in Itself.
H. L. HUTCHINSON LTD—New York Novelty Co.
708-710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
Postal Address-. Box 3* Haymarket Post Office, Sydney. %
WE SPECIALISE IN ALL KINDS OF TOYS. k
DIAMONDS REDUCED ENORMOUSLY
Never before in the experience of Australia were
so many Diamonds sold as last year. Our Sales
were enormously large. WHY ?
Well, we, some years ago, took on a Sole Agency
calling for an enormous output, and to jive up to
it we decided to offer Diamonds at a broker s com-
mission above landed cost. . ~
The first year it did not pan out too well, the
second year the very large output told, and so we
arc continuing the experiment for another year.
We only sell the Higher Grade of Diamonds, but
our prices lire Lower than those of London.
Fairfax & Roberts,
PLAIN FIGURES—CASH ONLY.
3 Fine Blue Montana Sapphires and 4
Diamonds, set ill Platinum, choicely cased,
£7.
Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
\ \ !
€D
<3>
cr?
,u
r Sr *3
How do you spend your
Week-ends—
BOATING
YACHTING
DANCING
CRICKETING
or at TENNIS?
Wherever You Go —
whatever way you pass the time, you should have
a portable “His Master’s Voice” Gramophone with
you. • - .
Music in the open air makes the interludes as
fascinating as the actual pastime —more especially
if it is rendered by an
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE
GRAMOPHONE.
* If you have a friend who already has a machine
send him, say, half-a-dozen “His Master’s
Voice” Records as a “New Year Gift.” Ile’li
b'e quite delighted. I
i : 1 i
Instrument catalogue, record lists and name of
nearest dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
JJ
o>K/~}o*+n
gf
'Hi» Masters Voice'


Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 19th December, 1914.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
riIENDERS will be received, subject to
-1- the conditions of tendering, until
twelve noon on Friday, 15th January. 1915,
for the supply of a 150-ton Floating Crane.
Delivery of the crane to be made at the
Commonwealth Dockyard, Cockatoo Island,
Sydney.
Tenders are to include cost of all material,
except timber, for the construction of a
suitable barge for the crane.
The barge will be constructed and the
crane erected by Commonwealth Dockyard
labor, but the contractors will provide the
services of an experienced representative to
supervise the erection of the crane on the
baige at the Commonwealth Dockyard.
I or. further particulars see Common-
wealth Gazette of 19th December, 1914-
obtainable at any official post office.
G. F. PEARCE,
Minister of State for Defence.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 19th December, 1914.
CENTRAL FLYING SCHOOL, WERRI-
BEE, VICTORIA.
A pplications are invited for 12
.air mechanics for the Aviation ln-
structional Staff, Central Flying School,
Vyernbee.
'Applicants must be between the ages of
±0 find .JO years and be unmarried. They
must also be or have been employed in one
ot the foliowing trades: Air Mechanic!
Motor Mechanic, Turner and Fitter, Coach-
builder, Boatbuilder, Cabinet Maker, Car-
penter or Joiner, Pattern Maker, Black-
smith.
Applications close on 15th January, 1915.
FuH particulars and Application’ Forms
Sydney ble from the Militai 'y Commandant,
T. TRUMBLE,
Acting Secretary.
Department of Defence, "
Melbourne, 22nd December, 1914.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
Tenders for Hire of a Tug.
TENDERS will be received until twelve
- V f° n 2? THURSDAY, 7th JANUARY,
ri r lle to Commonwealth
Naval Department of a Tug.
Ihe period of hire is to be for a period of
not less than six (6) months from date of
acceptance of tender, with the right of
extension for a further period.
he ,p essel to be a powerful sea-going
Tuff? 1 n' g ’ cai)a ,bie of towing one or more
Dumb Hopper Barges of about 1000 tons
deadweight when fully loaded at a speed of
Jess than fi ve (5) miles per hour. It
should be capable of making a journey
between inter-State ports-. y
charter erel 816 *° State ftdl Particulars of
T f nde rs to be endorsed “Tender for Tug”
on top left-handi, corner of envelope, and
Navfnffi t 0 t A h r e ,P rector of Navv ’ Contracts,
S offi £ e ’ Melbourne; or to the Director
Sydney 3" Ctmtracts ’- car « Naval Staff Office,
;Hxepte<i° WeSt W tender not necessarily
G. F. PEARCE.
Minister of State for Defence.
Public Notices.
HOP-PICKING MACHINE.
(° f Australian Letters Patent No.
ari< ] a ;I „ 19 f 13 for , . improvements in methods of
arid apparatus for picking hops and the like” desire
Wo4 r ht ng f mentS b L Wdy 0f lice,lse 01 ' otherwise
n_ leasonable terms with a view of the invention
K). f- worked commercially in Australia. For infor-
\° ,r alt s t S \ Ba y ston & Son, Patent
44i Collins Street, Melbourne.
INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES.
Australian Letters Patent No.
0 • 1 ~2 improvements in internal com-
bustion engines desire to make arrangements by way
vlw'nTrV 01 '- othe ' wis l on reasonable terms with a
Australia th i“ ven ‘ 10 , n bel '- g worked commercially in
Austialia. hoi information apply to Waltpr
Melbourne. S ° n ’ Patent Attorne >' s ’ 441 Collins Street
Supplying Liquid Fuel to Internal
Combustion Engines.
? f A !! stralia " Letters No.
S? **** e ooX^on m^!n^
invention being worked commercially in Austialia
p f I " f ° l ™ atlon aPPIy to Walter S. Bavston & Son’
Patent Attor :cys, 441 Collins Street, Melbourne.
COLORED Tost^cardsT^^
Weston—‘WEEKLY WORRIES.” ‘Set
of six, posted free, Gd. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney.
THE FAMOUS
SCHEBLER
Carburetter
with Special Attachment
for FORD CARS—
g
FORD OWNERS
can now have
a SCHEBLER
CARBURETTER
installed at a
minimum o f
expense, and
gain
MORE POWER,
SPEED and
FLEXIBILITY.
EASIER STARTING
QUICKER PICK UP
and
BETTER ECONOMY.
Price, as illustrated. £5/10/-
Booklet and all particulars from
SOLE AGENTS—
ROBERT C, SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
OUR own Mines,
our own Men,
Science, Care
and Scrupulous
Cleanliness make!
$&B0$
SALT
The Purest and
Best the world
can produce.
r
Let the Motor
pump your
Tyres with
the Mayo
Pump.
No auto owner
will continue using
a back - breaking
hand- pump after
once being shown
tins device. With this punlp tyres easily can be
kept up to pressure at all times. Hence full mile-
age service will be obtained which will result
in a saving of 25% in the tyre expense. 50,000
satisfied users are our best recommendation.
Instantly attached to any engine (European
or American). Remove spark plug and screw
pump in its place. Start the motor and vour
tyre is inflated with pure fresh air in from
two to four minutes. Just watch the gauge, it
tells the exact pressure.
Write to-day to us or to our nearest dis-
tributor.
MAYO MANUFACTURING CO.,
69E 18th STREET, CHICAGO, U.S.A.
Stockists: CARRATS LTD., Sydney, N.S.W.
R. B. SPINKS & CO., Auckland, H;Z-
BEFORE.
FOR
quick results'
USE
>
(4PILL4RINE
Dispel that boyish 100k —grow a
moustache. Capillarine develops
a full hair-growth quickly—does
not injure the skin—cannot be
detected in use. Hundreds have
proved its merit.
TRY A JAR-10 6, post free.
CRAIG 8 AITREN, 654 5 %° N r f Y e st "
Established Over SO Years.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
•*i"iaee Medals.
Wor-Us ; Birmingham, England,
gf
These sefies of
Pens neither‘scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
dra.vn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
■
Wear
Abbey Shoes
For 1935, and have foot comfort
365 days in the new year.
The illustration shows a special
Golf Shoe, in Choice Tan Willow
Calf.
Price - - - 27/6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
T\URING the Summer a most pleasant,
refreshing, invigorating Tpuic Bever-
age may be made by adding a few drops of
Phos to a glass of cold water. Though
Phos is, primarily, a children’s tonic, yet
weary adults should always keep a bottle
handy. Get it now, and don’t be without
it when the hot, fatiguing days come round.
Sold in shilling bottles. If not obtainable
locally, send 1/3 in stamps to the proprie-
tors.
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
The Friend of
Suffering Humanity
Solomon
Solution
Brings speedy, sure relief in most cases of
Kheumatism, Sciatica, Gout and kindred
troubles—and will cure the most obstinate
case if persevered with. Invaluable also
Sprains, Cuts, and many other simple ills.
2/6 Jars obtainable from your Chemist or Store-
keepers; post free for 3/- from
SOLOMON COX & SON
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
‘ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-.
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
haw m w *<■ 0 st / eunuus that its votaries
and NpJ y v ff f ? r 3 fo, : tni » ht during the Christmas
co r,™ ZT 1 ' tl ,? e - , So far as competitions are
play will not be resumed in Victoria till
nev clubs 0 la N - s - w - till January 9. The Syd-
-5 ,i, e , t s ree games finished out of a long
wood wl!?? °/,., 14 - ft, George, Ashfleld, Chatsf
wood, AVavei ley, City and North Sydney are all on
shfn ntVm? 1 ?- k ' All th ? se have won the champion-
ties l tw T a,l ?‘ her ' Cit y has it several
mes, but that doesn t prevent it growling. This
W b f t’PPed as the present-season winners,
tint It, f r lU r',v hap Pen - there seems to be a weak
„" k ', n , tke ehaln ; Anyway, it is bad business for
fts W b m Wln t?° ? f . te "’ especially when some of
club' up the hulde, Y b ° asslsting weaker
* * * *
Manly (Sydney) Swimming Club put up
when i S qq aUe i ged t 0 V c a .world’s record last week
when ,109 plungers started in a handicap race. If
* sn t ? record this paper is misinformed. Several
papers have been misinformed in their trusting
At the . sa ! ll .° meeting G. Wild gathered
the 100yds. championship of the district in 59sec
l no,fa 01 m ''f h . im in the running for the
100yds. State championship this week-end.
* * *
N.S.W. Amateur Athletic Association has
gummed into the State record-book the effort of
lfiin' 6 ?,'' 111 W- // O’Reilly, who recently hurled the
161 b. hammer 141 ft. lOJin.
Rivalry amounting almost to feud exists
in the sculling camps on the Parramatta River.
On the Abbotstord side R. Arnst, A. D. Felton, Syd
lvemp and George Jack are removing superfluous
flesh , while from the other bank George and Charles
towns, Cob lord and lesser lights are busy. The
cause of all the bustle is the approach of matches
between Kemp and Towns in January, and Felton
and Ford on February 1.
* * * *
Those who cherish a desire to see Kahan-
amoku over a distance in the coming championships
wul be disappointed, owing to our Hawaiian brother
declining to take part in events over 440yds The
long-distance championships will therefore be fought
out amongst Australians.
* * * *
Q. L. Deloitte, president of N.S.W. Row-
ing Association, is the “old man” of Ma State rowing.
Back in 1859, at the age of 16, Delpitte took to the
pastime; and in the intervening 55 years he has
never loosened his grip oil the sculls, in a manner
ot speaking. At the age of over 70 he is still a
strong buttress.
* * * *
Moana”: A wild-cat athletic contest
haDpened at The Bluff (M.L.) recently when a well-
known athlete offered to race a local beer-vendor
100yds. and carry a man on his back provided he
was allowed 50vds. start. The booze purveyor gladly
started off scratch. But as the athlete, with a 9st
.lockey up, covered his 50yds. in 9 2-ssec. the pump
operator didn’t have much chance. In fact, he
didn t have an absent dog’s chance, and was beaten
b L l6y » Its a venerable trick, and although the
odds all seem to be on the scratch man the one
wRh the rider up and the short distance in front
ot him has always won comfortably. I once saw
the 50yds. run in this way in 9sec. !
* * * «
“Adelaide”: The story of the strange
behavior of the mark-buoy which broke from its
<lurillg a race in Sydney Harbor (B.
10/12/ 14) is beaten by that of an elephant, told
ot in a modern book on Indian pig-sticking. Indian
plains being vast and monotonous; and elephants
handy, it is the custom in a point-to-point race to
hx up a white flag on the beast, and station him as
the ’landmark round which the field has to turn.
One year one of these flag-elephants, on the arrival
ot the first horse, was so terrified at, I presume, the
rider s racing seat and demeanor that he fled forth-
with. It was pleasant io see the elephant bolting
u he , was worth, trunk and tail on end, the
white flag drooping down his back, while an indig-
nant and protesting field galloped with the utmost
velocity in their vain efforts to go round him.”
In the House of Reps, recently Willie
VYatt received a back-liander from his boss,
Joseph Cook, that surprised him. A Bill
was being discussed and Watt had the floor.
He was twitting Prime Minister Fisher in
regard to an approaching visit to England,
when Jokook scrambled up, and, on a poinf-
of order, had Watt’s remarks on the. mattCif
cut off at the meter. It was a very dazed
young man who heard his leader explaining
to the Chair that “such interjections as we
have heard are merely wasting the time of
the Committee.”
Robert Fletcher, who threw M.L. Minister
for Marine and Customs Fisher out of the
Wellington Central seat in the Ecus. lv
over 2000 votes, was 20 years ago working
cargo on the wharves in the windy town.
Later, he-was a storeman, and 13 years ago
took a partnership in a carrying‘business,
which he made into a big thing. Local poli-
tics led him to the City Council and Harbor
h e h as been chairman since
1910). Now he goes into the House of
Rens. to continue his battle for the workers.
Henry Fielding Dickens, Iv.C., has joined
the band of prominent men who are address-
ing recruiting meetings in England. lie is
the sixth son of Charles, and is named after
the Bow-street magistrate who wrote the
novels. Henry’s form is spare, tiny and
untidy, but his large head is almost a
replica of his father’s save that he is dean
shaved. Though London is a big city it
contains only about 10 “silks” who have big
King’s Bench practices. Henry is one of
the 10; and every time a High Court judge-
ship falls in his is the name first mentioned
in the Temple. He has not yet got this
£5OOO-a-year prize, hut it almost certainly
will come to him.
•The first head of the N. S. Wales police
was D’Arcy Wentworth. He was followed
by the mysterious Rossi, who in turn gave
way to Colonel Wilson. These three were
police magistrates as well. In the ’4o’s a
Mr. Miles was followed by Colborn Mayne.
In the first ’6o’s, reform being found neces-
sary, John McLerie. police superintendent,
was made the first Inspector-General, with
Edmund Fosbery, brought from Melbourne,
as secretary. Fosbery, who was a police
cadet, i.e., an officer with a sword, was the
real reorganiser. When McLerie died .he
succeeded as “General.” On his retirement
the first “ranker,” Tom Garvin, got the
billet, and he was succeeded by another
ranker, E. C. J)ay, who in turn is followed
by still another ranker, Superintendent
Mitchell.


LITTLE
MOTHERS
IT
KS
Use
CUTICURA
SOAP
And Cuticura Ointment. They
affo r d a pure, sweet and economi-
cal method of preserving, purify-
ing and beautifying the skin, scalp
and hair. For distressing eczemas,
rashes, itchings, inflammations
and chafings of infants, children
and adults Cuticura Soap and Cuti-
cura Ointment are most effective.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold throughout
the world. A liberal sample of each, with 32-page
booklet on the care and treatment of the skin and
scalp, sent post-free. Address R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N.S. W.
ifaslrs
NAMES.
■s
For
marking
linen
Your name is neatly woven in fast Turkey
Red on Cambric tape so that your Linen,
Clothing, Handkerchiefs, etc., are per-
manently marked by simply sewing the
name on. Prevents articles being n>‘ sla, “
at laundry. Note the cost is small:
dozen 7/6 ; 6 dozen 5/-; 3 dozen 3/6.
Obtainable at all drapers and outfitters or
woven samples sent free on application to
J. & J. CASH LTD ,
346-50 Flinders Lane, Melb.
I
Always ask
for CASH’S
ko simple
3113_
““end-PEDIC POMADE for THE HEAD
Strikes infesting vermin dead. One applica-
tion destroys vermin, kills nits, heals sores, cures
ringworm, and makes the hair grow thick ana
curly. Kills lice on live stock.
Sydney Agents: Talbots, 20G George Street;
and Washington Soul. Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, or posted from J. Brin, Chemist,
East Malvern, Vic.—l/2, 2/3, 3/9, and with Nit
Comb. 6d. extra.
Great Danger of
Insed Bites.
DOCTOR’S ALARMING STATEMENTS.
Protect Yourself Against Ordinary
Dangers by using
NEV-A-BITE
“There is no question,” says a leading
specialist, “that insect bites may lead to great
danger to health, and have been known to end
fatally.”
This alarming
statement, which
has appeared in
the .influential
newspapers of this
country, should
arouse the public
to the fact that
bites from mos-
quitoes and other
insects are things
to worry about.
It is quite pos-
sible that if one’s
blood is in a poor
state an insect
bite might set up
such serious in-
flammation as to
cause blood-poi-
soning, and —as everyone well knows —blood-
poisoning may lead to even the amputation of
a limb. '
One has only to glance at the illustration
given here of the mosquito to realise what
terrifying poison-injecting parts this insect
has. It is absolutely necessary, not only for
the woman who desires to keep her complexion
in its natural condition, but also for the pro-
tection against more serious dangers, to secure
some reliable preparation which will prevent
insects from biting.
The best form of treatment of mosquito bites
is prophylactic, or preventive. The application
of a little of the Nev-a-bite lotion to the
forehead, neck and the instep (when openwork
stockings are worn) reduces the probability of
mosquito-bites to a minimum.
Nev-a-bite is a perfectly harmless pre-
paration, and serves to whiten, soften and
beautify the skin.
Nev-a-bite can be obtained at 9(1. pei
bottle. Postage 3d. extra from—
DUERDSN & SAINSBURY
Manufacturing Chemists, MELBOURNE.
The dread Mosquito,
whose bite is perhaps
the most dangerous of
all insects.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
ALL p®S P .“fp“ ies is.ued in the Ordinary Department before .be eh* of the current year w.U
share in the Cash Bonus to be then allotted £983,500
Cash Bonus divided tor jear IJI3. • * * . . £1,730,000
Yielding
NOw'li%r?fmeTo"“lfe«%nlSi™.Tf fSSJ?2£K™ oW to reap the ben.Ht of
“* cKW«* ®ss„ r sws%yn r**%ssr ““ T* ter
full particulars. RICHA Manager'tnd Actuary. Acting Secretary.
AN/EMIA
and Debility
IF you are run-down, easily exhausted and out
1 of breath —if you feel slack, depressed, or
“out-of-sorts,” start a Course of Iron
‘Jelloids’ at once. Iron ‘Jelloids are the
finest and most reliable tonic for all cases of
Anaemia or Debility. They quickly restore
vitality, and produce the rich healthy blood so
essential to good health and vigour. Iron
‘lei.loids’ are a perfectly safe remedy under
all conditions—pleasant, inexpensive, do not
harm the teeth, and are non-constipating.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote: —
“Itcanbe definitely stated that Iron Jelloids
constitute the most effective and desirable
treatment for the cure of that common com-
plaint, that insidious and weakening condition,
no matter from what cause arising, known
as Anaemia or Poorness of Blood.’
A fortnight’s trial (Price 1/6) will convince you
Iron ‘Jelloids'
enrich the blood - renew vitality
For
No. i.
Special Tonic for Men, Iron ‘Jelloids,’ No. 2A (containing Quinine).
Women, Iron ‘Jelloids,’ No. 2. For Children, Iron Jelloids,
IKON JELLOIDS are sold by all Chemists in Australia.
Manufactured only by The Jelloid Co., 205, City Road, London, England.
Wholesale : Druggists' Sundries Ltd., 82, Pitt Street, Sydney , N.S. W.
Be sure you take IronJelloids 5 times a day
A SENSE of satisfaction is experienced
time one wears a pair of
Rostock boots, and from this con-
. sciousness of their fine quality springs a
natural and legitimate pride. One feels
that they will contribute to ease and
elegance on the most exacting occasions,
and one knows that their high quality
will be recognised every time they are
handled. This sense of satisfaction is
the inevitable effect of the choice leather
and beautiful work so conspicuous in
every pair of Bostocks. They are the
cream of imported shoes.
Special shipments have recently arrived at
the leading stores, and ladies should call before
the choicest styles are sold.
I
"a
Style 585
801
-4-
ran.
Worth more— much more—
than the little extra
they cost!
KENRICK’S CAST IRON saucepans
and kettles, though a trifle higher
in first cost than common enamel-
ware goods, are cheapest in the long
The one lasts months —the other, a lifetime.
Kenrick’s Cast Iron
Pots and Pans
BRITISH MADE
BY BRITISH
WORKMEN
g
Won’t chip like common enamel, are
quick to boil, easy to clean, and last a
lifetime. They never rub into holes
and will prove good cookers and quick
boilers right up to the end.
Insist on KENRICK’S CAST IRON!
Procurable at All Ironmongers
Business, Bobbery, etc.
The best thing I saw in Melbourne during
Manufactures’ Week was this notice in the
windows of one shop
The Chamber of Manufactures has arranged for a
week’s display of Australian productions. What on
earth is the good of that? One week for Australia
and 51 for Germany and other trade rivals is
thorough humbug. If Australian shopkeepers only
show xVustralian productions one week out of 52
loyalty to Australia is empty profession. No such
humbug with us. Please note —-Every one of the 52
weeks we display Australian productions in these
windows and sell them in this shop. Australia’s
success depends on your support every week anil all
the time. When we cannot get Australian we get
British.
There was nothing to show that this shop-
keeper got one of tlie prizes. He should have
got the lot.
* * * *
War gets in some queer blows. Lately, for
instance, word came from London that busi-
ness in Australian rabbits was slack. As a
regular thing the Commonwealth ships from
15,000,000 to 20,000,000 frozen rabbits a
year; and, as the food is good and cheap, and ■
might therefore be expected to take the place
of dearer meat in bad times, the slump was
astonishing. Then the explanation came
along. A very big proportion of the retail
rabbit trade is done from barrows by night,
the “market” being lit by flares. But flares
in London and one or two other big centres
are prohibited, lest they should be a help to
William’s air-raiders; and it’s a case of no
flares no rabbits. However, the shrinkage that
way has now been more than counterbalanced
by orders for army fodder; so William
hasn’t landed the Australian trapper one in
the breadbasket, after all.
* * * *
“Scorpio” : The dust of Boulder and Kal-
goorlie is largely caused by the traffic of
illicit goldbuyers’ motor-cars. The trade
these fellows do is highly remunerative. They
rob the gold-stealer. The man who annexes
20oz. of gold, worth £3 10s. per oz., receives
payment for 15oz. at £1 per oz. The opera-
tors are not ostracised, but, even when sus-
pected, are welcomed in local sassiety. And
of course they get the barmaids’ giggles. If
the members of the Chamber of Mines really
want to know where the gold is going and
how the evil can be minimised, an offer of a
prize—a substantial' one —for the best treatise
thereon, would show them how little they
know of their own affairs, and how impotent
the sleuths of the C. 1.0. are.
* * * *
One cheerful incident of the war con-
cerns Kaiser Bill and a Gloucester Old
Spots. This latter is the brand of a certain
breed of pig, whose mana is so great among
swine-fanciers that a while back Bill thought
his piggery at Gotsdam would be improved
by one of the species. Accordingly he
ordered a boar, and the canny men of
Gloucestershire insisted on cash before ship-
ment. The cash came and the beast was
about to be transported to Hamburg when
Bill began his outbreak of savagery ; where-
upon the Gloucester men were told not to
send Old Spots “pending further instruc-
tions.” They are still holding Old Spots,
and reckon to keep him till after the war,
when they have an idea of shipping him to
William to teach that potentate and his
people a few lessons in manners.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The days of chivalry are not
completely dead, unless all women are liars.
One of the latter—a boarding-house help—
was in urgent need of sixpence. She asked
a lodger to lend it to her. He explained
that he hadn’t the money, but offered her his
false teeth to pawn instead. At least, that
was her story, when dragged before a Sydney
beak recently, and charged with theft. I like
to believe the yarn, though it was passion-
ately denied by the owner of the bogus fangs.
TERRIBLE WAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There would be a probable restriction of accom-
modation in the next financial year. e are at war,
the Premier added.—S. M. Herald.
“We are at war,” the Premier cried.
“If only we'd had peace,
And another year to borrow in,
And Ma's large debt increase,
We might have whooped things up to something like
our original intentions, or dimensions, and
shown an ungrateful community what a spirited
policy of public doles and bribes really means.
But now all that must cease!
“We are at war,” the Premier howled.
“The Lord knows what we’ll do!
In peace, of course, we might have bluffed
Another big loan through ;
But, now —yes, war is Hell, all right. We get rude
replies about cash and things ; also, bad news
from Loandon to the effect that Uncle is ill, or
dead, and that it must be kept secret —and
d— it! Ncbody will look at our IOU!”
N.B.W.
MONTY PEET.
A DOLLAR A DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Senator MiUen, on the recommendation of General
Bridges, approved of chaplains appointed to the
expeditionary force receiving the pay and allowances
granted to the relative combatant ranks of the Aus-
tralian Imperial Force. Under this, six were
appointed at £958, and two at £B2l per annum.
—Sydney Sun.
Oh 1 we’re off and away
Hans the Hogman to slay!
We’re off to the front and the battle’s array,
We’re off to keep cut-throat and culture at bay,
And we’re doing our bit for a dollar a day.
But the parson, they say,
Who is coming to pray
And to tell us of Heaven and show us the way,
And keep sinful swaddies from going astray,
Receives more than ten times a dollar a day I
Though it causes dismay,
Still we mustn’t inveigh
At this millionaire rate of parsonical pay,
We're after the Kaiser ; the Devil’s their prey,
So we shut up and fight oh a dollar a day.
Be the wage what it may,
We will gladly obey,
So we.re off without fireworks and limelight
display.
We’ll hold up our end in the horrible fray,
And keep a stiff lip on a dollar a day 1
N.B.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


The BEST HOUSE for all
SHOOTING REQUISITES
-fesasa-
B.S.A. Rifle, Showing Silencer attached.
99 n^ri S ’ A i* MINIATURE RIFLE, No. 2 MODEL.
lenSh b ovw'»?, 4r° n ’ self_< ; ockin »- 24 j n - round steel barrel;
rear sight to ?00 yards hm-w-/ n ‘ , wel Bht, about 5Mb.; screw adjusting
- jaids, bailejcorn front sight, walnut stock, 35/.
■RCA \fmTT. lostage on one Rifle, 2/3 N.S.W. ■ 4/2 Inter-State
S le I J? I No T^L.deI A I R t°^ FICE , RIFLE ’ No - 3 MODEL, same
as jno. Z Model, but improved, and fitted with target sights.
t> o * Delivered *V7/a
S.S.A MWLWURE WAR OFFICE REPEATING RIFLE o«T
calibre; same description as No. 3 Model DelivSef . 67/1
w
THE MAXIM SILENCER, for attaching to rifles. Improves
your marksmanship. Ensures noiseless shooting. The
marvel of the shooting world.
Silencer for 22-cal. rifles £l/5/.
Silencer for all other calibre rifles £2/2/6
Postage on one Silencer, N.S.W., 9d. ; Inter-State, 1/2.
Wedging Silencer on barrel 7/6 extra
Screwing Silencer on barrel 12/6 extra
We Repair
All Kinds
of GUNS
and
RIFLES.
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition and
an Sporting Goods
Post Free Anywhere.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
Head Depot: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
City iSports Depot: 119 King Street,
and at 105*7 Hunter Street, Newcastle.
c
-MAUSER CARBINE AND PISTOL COMBINED; 10-shot,
automatic self-feeding, self-ejecting, sighted to 1000 yards.
Delivered £6/10/-
r
THE SAA’AGE” Repeating Hammer-
less Rifle, 22-calibre rim fire, 24in. octagon
barrel, slide action, demountable. pistol grip,
handles short, long, or long rifle cartridges ; is loaded with a
clip similar to the Military Rifle, two clips with each rifle,
each clip holds 7 cartridges; weight about 541 b. Delivered. .
Extra Clips, 1/6 each.
£3/3/-
s
REMINGTON RIFLES,
No. 6 Model, 22-calibre R.F.
20in. round blued steel barrel.
weight 311 b 17/6
With ladder rear sights, 21 /-
Postage—l/6 N.S.W.;
2/8 Inter-State.
smi
STEVENS’ MARKSMAN RIFLE,
22-cal. R.F., round barrel, 20in. chambered for long
rifle cartridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut
stock, open front and rear sights, weight, 41b., 19/6
Postage—N.S.W. 1/9; Inter-State 3/2.
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing .
THE PERMANENT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED,
TRUSTEE COMPANY
25 O’Connell St.,
SYDNEY.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Ere., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full Particulars on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [2
O sizes in one tool —
® the best all-round
die-stock you can own.
OSTER
BULL-
DOG
Die-Stocks
The Oster Mfg. Co.,
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
FOR SALE BY LEADING
DEALERS IN ALL CITIES.
f
05TER
BULLDOG
No. 104 i
; / '
i" to 2"
8 Sizes.
All folk who know
what is good when they
taste, should at once taste
Birds
the Perfect CUSTARD.
Its delicious flavor and creamy
richness are simply a revelation!
Sold in Pkts., Boxes and new large Tins.
Try also BIRD’S Crystal JELLY —lt dissolves instantly.
POST FREE. — A Valuable Recipe Book sent. on receipt of address, by
W. C. Douglass, 53, Liverpool Street, Sydney.
CISSS.W.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd.,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK 01? NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s (id posted. Mkriiik
England, 6d. How to Gut Rich, Is posted. Da. Lamar-
TINK'S SIIiKNT ErIKND, Is (id. NltD DONNELLY’S Ajt’f
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings. Is.
How to DancSh, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including liana, Is 6d eaeh, posted. Educating tub
Horsk, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comio Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket'Writing? Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt?, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling BY Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. Tun Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and DiversionswithCards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Marla Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. FOtvler’s Science of Life.
10s Cd. Aust. Miners’ Guide (sfimple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick .at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry,' 3s Dd posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, ICS s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, os. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jtiir-J it.su, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train fop, all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. Hou.sk Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler's Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s'. Guide, Is 6d.
a
m
m
i
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED, Complete, unabridged,
bloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
mf-bookseller to THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-workino for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Games), is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River. 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Tiib White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easj-, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. 25 Tears.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
liE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
How ro Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Gauds, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d post. Du. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingbrsoll's Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Che v assn’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarp. Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted".
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar.
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. Tiie Wife’s Handbook
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d, Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing", Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com!
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY


V. \ .
/ /
V \ \
■i.
V '
h
' i V
How to
Withstand
Hot
Weather.
THE HEATED TERM.
The heated term is withstood without
a whimper by those people who have a
healthy stomach. Hot weather cannot
hurt the man or woman whose stomach
and digestive organs are perfectly
healthy. But you go into December or
January with a disordered stomach, and
see what the result will be.
SUNSTROKE.
Sunstroke attacks only the man or
woman whose stomach or digestive or-
gans are too feeble to protect the
strength, and maintain one’s physical
power to resist the depressing effects of
the summer’s sun.
SUMMER DIET.
Summer diet, with all its vegetables
and unripe fruit, adds its unstable influ-
ence to the depressing effects of hot
•weather, causing a still greater decline
in one’s strength and vitality.
IF THE STOMACH IS OUT OF
ORDER.
Ninety-nine out of every one hundred
people whose health and strength run
down in summer allow their stomach or
digestive organs to get out of order.
This is easy enough—in fact, it is hard
to prevent without the use of some thor-
oughly reliable digestant.
TAKE DR. SHELDON’S DIGES-
TIVE TABULES.
One of Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tab-
ules, taken after meals, is not only the
thoroughly reliable digestant, but it con-
tains great tonic and reconstructive
properties as well. This famous remedy
enables the stomach and digestive or-
gans to thoroughly digest, assimilate,
and contribute to the tissues all the
nourishment that is contained in such
food as may be eaten.
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules lay the foundation for health and the upbuild-
ing of strength by purifying and sweetening the glands and membranes of the
stomach, and by supplying natural juices necessary to perfect digestion, assimila-
tion and nutrition. Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules prevent Colic, Cholera,
Diarrhoea, Flux, Dysentery and summer complaints generally, and their use will
cure Indigestion and Chronic Dyspepsia permanently. Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive
Tabules are good alike for young and old. Sold at 1/6 and 2/G per tin.
®»Sneldon's
Price 2/6
g
The Men Pay and
the Ladies Provide.
aC
E
which is the good old-fashioned way of
arranging a picnic.
Sometimes the lady in the case is hard put
to it to provide. She may be rooming or
boarding; then, if she is wise, she will
remember the
“Rex” Brand
Picnic Goods.
Delightful Sandwiches can be made of
“Rex” Ham Pate
gc
RE X
BRiHfl
>
SH3S
Spread between fresh Bread and Butter and crisp Lettuce Leaves, or
“Rex” Veal & Tongue Pate
may be used in the same way. Then a few
sandwiches of
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese
r
g
as a change from Meat. Better still, spread some Biscuits with Rex
Luncheon Cheese. They’re grand.
“Rex” PorK and Beans
“Rex” Sheep Tongues
“Rex” PorK Sausages
“Rex” PorK Brawn
“Rex” Pig's* Feet in Jelly, and
“ Rex” Lunch Tongues in Jelly
are all good, “easy-to-serve,” yet delightfully appetising picnic edibles.
Try them.
Any Grocer will supply you.
“REX” FRESH SMALL GOODS procurable at all Grocers and small
goods shops and carts in Brisbane and District and Bendigo and
District only.
Saveloys.
Strassburg Sausage.
Veal German Sausage.
White Puddings.
Black Puddings.
Pork Sausages.
Frankfurt Sausages.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon,
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products,
Makers of “Rex” Small Goods.
In the Fog.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
mHE grey, 'tramp steamer resting
There, in the calm, blue bay,
Has tasted ocean’s anger
And thwarted ocean’s sway—
With anchor-chains crossed quaintly,
Through swinging round and round,
She dreams of ways uncharted
And far-off harbors found.
Cotnes toowj ft Avhite, swift ferry,
Blftck-funnelied, silver-bowed,
Impatiently ftnd eftgef
To land her home-bound crowd.
The white wave of her going
Laps on the old tramp’s sides,
Deep-scarred by manv waters
And ftll the wide sea’s tides,
Fog creeps along the harbor—
Like puffs of steam it fills
The tree-girt, dreaming gullies
And moves along the hills.
Brief glimpse of placid waters
The lifting veil allows,
Ere it again drops tideward
To baulk the blundering bows.
Hark, now, the ferry’s whistle.
She cries her way along,
With engineer awaiting
The clear-struck, strident gong.
And faint and far, or loudly,
More steamer-whistles blow
To warn men they are coming
Or tell men that they go.
A throbbing winch’s rattle,
The clank of muddy chains
Come from the fog-bank’s distance
Across the ferry-lanes....
A steamer’s leadsmen, chanting
With fog-dews in their eyes,
Make in the muffled stillness,
Uncanny, ghostly cries.
The fog lifts from the harbor;
It foils along the hills,
And in the warm, moist gullies
The dusk her scent distils.
A prospect of smooth waters,
The lifting mists display,
There blithely speed the ferries
Each on her busy way.
But there is no tramp dreaming
Now, in the land-locked bay.
Her wake lies faint, down-clmnnel,
And she is breaking spray
Where, ’tween the bare, bold headlands
The ocean swell runs free —
To her, the fog was nothing;
She smelt the open sea.
N.s.w.
WILL LAWSON.
The Boy and the Flood.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TO the boy whose home is on the bank
of a river or a wide creek the grand-
est thing that can happen is a big
flood. His ambition is to see his native
watercourse rise superior to all other chan-
nels, even though it lays the frontages waste
and leaves ruin in its track. He wants it
to break records even if it breaks the old
man and carries the ancestral mansion away
with it. Then he has something to boast
about that will keep him talking until he
grows up.
If Tommy Smith or Billy Jones from the
next county starts skiting about the wet
circumstances they have known, he points
proudly to a log or a little heap of debris
stuck high up in the fork of a tree —a bit
of evidence that leaves no room for argu-
ment. A boy with the patriotic fervor in
him always sees to it that the flood leaves
such a mark behind it, and it would be
sacrilege on the part of any other boy to
remove it. In fact, such an outrage would
precipitate a conflict between the boy bri-
gades of rival waterways.
When reports from upstream indicate
that a big flood will eventuate, and while
the farmer is anxiously thinking of his crops
on the low lands, the boy begins to dance
with gleeful expectation. He trots down
the bank every half-hour or so, and each
time x-aces back delightedly to report the
progress of the rise. He has a look the last
thing before going to bed, and sticks a stake
in at the edge of the water. He is up be-
fore daylight in the morning to see how
far the water has got past the stake, and
if it has covei*ed the indicator out of sight
and is still rising he nearly breaks his neck
in his hurry.to wake everybody up to come
and see the hopeful spectacle. He can
hardly spare time to get his breakfast, and
every minute he can snatch from odd jobs
thereafter he is at the riverside, timing and
marking the swelling food, and impatiently
awaiting the happy moment when he can
announce a banker. If he could he would
assist the flood over the bank. When an
official warning comes that a catastrophe
is. inevitable, and the grown-ups are filled
with anxiety, the boy is simply delirious
Avith delight.
He works prodigiously, performing each
little job with wonderful smartness-—com-
paratively speaking, so that he may spend
as much of the day as possible along the
bank. The foaming current, bending and
smothering the treetops in its eddying
rushes, and carrying Avith it the sweepings
of scrub and forest, of town and farm, is as
good as a circus to him. What exciting
races he sees in the stream of logs and
pumpkins and haystacks that go spinning
past him ; what joy is his as he rushes tire-
lessly from place to place, retrieving pro-
duce, furniture and other spoils of the flood !
If a boat flies past, he answers the cooees
of the occupants with an echoing yell; and
if a house joins in the mad procession, with
the unfortunate owner clinging frantically
to the roof, he greets it and encourages the
miserable passenger with a spontaneous
‘hooray!”
He is an impartial spectator; he cheers
all comers. If he shows any difference at
all between those who unwillingly provide
the entertainment, it is for the desperate
person—such as one who has been carried
away by a pile of timber lie had sought to
rescue—who has considerable trouble in
maintaining his hold, and has snakes and a
multitude of crawling things on board to
keep him interested. The happy youth will run
miles when an entertainer of that kind is
on the programme. He cuts across the
bights and enthusiastically encores the fly-
ing sailor as lie whirls round the bend. lie
applauds him lustily every time he nearly
falls oft, and approves tumultuously when
the voyager kills a centipede, or is bitten bv
ft bull-ant.
Flood-time is a glorious period of confusion
When the Whole domestic machinery is
thrown otlt of gear. All tile rigid discipline
and dull routine of ft humdrum daily life
are gone. There is a break in the mono-
tony. Blit when the family is advised to
shift before the worst happens, and they
heed the warning in good time, the boy
almost weeps with disappointment. The
thought of a time, commonplace escape like
that is painful, lie wants to wake up in
the night and find the flood a foot deep in
the rooms ; to hear the shrieks of the girls
as they jump up and put their feet un-
expectedly into cold water; to know the
joy of wading around and collecting float-
ing articles, and stacking up the furniture;
of perching on the table and watching all
manner of things floating in at the door.
He yearns for the thrill of climbing on to
the wallplate and finally scrambling up
through the chimney on to the roof; to wait
there, scanning the great brown sea for a
passing ship. Lots of people on lots of
rivers experience those sort of pleasures,
and why shouldn’t he?
Flood and rescue parties used to
be maintained on the Clarence River, which
sometimes spread to a width of 30 miles
near Grafton. They rowed over the farms
in the night, taking people off the roofs of
houses, off little islands and out of trees.
Many a family had a whirling excursion on
a housetop, spinning down towards the sea
among haystacks and dead cattle. The
Clarence boys were a fortunate lot —in the
estimation of other boys, for theirs was a
champion river. It could beat all other
rivers on the map when it got fairly on the
bust; and it provided thrilling sensations
in great variety.
There is still niueh for young hopeful to
enjoy, even though he is taken away to a
distant hill. Swimming the stock over
creeks and swampk is a treat; and if the
hill becomes surrounded with water, so that
all are marooned on an island, he is quite
happy ag_ain. It is a new life 1 anyway, and
when he returns home after the inundation
has subsided there is the fun of finding a
dead horse on the front verandah, and a
cow under the table in the dining-room, not
to mention the exhilaration of digging the
furniture out of the mud and rubbish that
have been deposited within the residence,
and of turning the whole place upside down
and inside out in the cleaning process. He
knows full well that the possessions in his
own little cubby house will be considerably
augmented by cast-out bric-a-brac and dis-
carded odds and ends that the flood has
ruined.- Whatever damage it does to others
it generally enriches him.
I was a boy one time! Maybe it is a long
while ago, but the memories of some floods
cling to me still like happy dreams. Per-
haps the most enlivening of all was a liquid
calamity on the Clarence River that tore
a big steani boat from its moorings and
deposited it in the middle of a corn planta-
tion. I was interested in that ship, and it
was a great disappointment to me when I
wasn’t allowed to hang around every day
and learn with my own dyes how a strayed
liner was got back to the path of duty. I
believe it was dragged hack to the 'river
with bullocks, the re-launching occupying
about a week.
There was a job for me at home at the
time. At first sight it promised to be just
work unadorned, but eventually it turned
out to be an enjoyable affair.
Though Caramana stood miles back from
the river, the water reached within 50yds.
of the house, which stood on a hill. Several
fine patches of lucerne were destroyed, and
as they had been ready to cut, there was a
lot of hard clearing work to do. One patch
of about five acres was on a sort of an
island. There was a lane at the back, and
a deep gully, like a canal, swept round from
one point to the other. It contained about
7ft. of water when it was sober, and was
spanned by a log bridge.
Jack Thompson was deputed to cut this
dead lucerne and tip P into the gully, and
I was sent to help him.
We commenced carting one morning with
a fat brood mare. Her owner thought so
much of her that she was seldom worked,
but this was considered an easy job—just
drawing the loads a few yards and backing
to the edge of the bank.
Jack insisted on doing the driving and
backing himself. “I understand her better
than you do,” he said. “Arid she’s so valu-
able—tire, boss would take a fit if anything
happened to her. Refused £4O for her the
other day.”*’s
We had emptied about four loads when I
heard- an agonised shriek from the careful
Jack. The cart was going over the steep
bank, and that valuable mare was backing
after it. Jack hung frantically to one
wheel, and yelled to me to “get her by the
head.” I got her by the head, and she
helped the cart down the bank all the more.
Then the weight of the load lifted her ; she
swung round on the incline, and the next
instant the cart turned over, and the lot
dropped with a great splash into the water.
For a moment I stood on the bank, with
a pitchfork in my band, staring hopelessly
at two wheels and four kicking hoofs. Jack
had disappeared. At first glance I thought
he was under the load. Then a pile of wet
lucerne popped up, bobbed violently round
for a while, and finally Thompson’s head
burst through the side of it.
Reaching out with the pitchfork, XT
thrust the prong through the neckband of
his shirt, and drew him to the cart-wheel.
(Continued on next page.)


I
n
L I
'
Zam-Buk Comforts
and Heals Soothes
Swelling and Aching—and Strengthens and Stimulates the Feet.
ZAM-BUK has proved a splendid cure for foot troubles. When the
feet ache or smart, and feel hot, tired and swollen, wash them m
warm water, and then rub the soles, ankles and insteps freely
with Zam-Buk. As Zam-Buk’s potent, healing juices sink through
the skin, they soothe the tissues, strengthen the tendons, and bring
real “foot comfort." Chafed and blistered parts are strengthened or
healed, and hard growths are softened. Zam-Buk comforts and heals
hot, swollen, sweating feet, galled spots, and takes away the pain of
corns and bunions. There is nothing so good for the feet as Zam-Buk,
the ideal soother and perfect healer.
Sore Heels and Tender Feet.
“Being an insurmce traveller,” says Mr. W.
Sims, of 139 Tynte St., North Adelaide, “lama
lot on my feet, and very often sutler from sore
heels and tender feet. Upon the application of
your Zam-Buk Healing Balm the soothing effect
is wonderful, and in a short time any heels are
quite sound again. I always have Zam-Buk in
the house for the use of my wife and children in
case of burns, scalds, etc., and have great
pleasure in recommending it to fellow-sufferers.”
Burning Feet and Sore Insteps.
Mrs. Gunson, of 157 Hoddle St., West Rich-
mond, Melbourne, writes : “ I am a canvasser,
and an), therefore, constantly on my feet. My
insteps became very tender and broke out in
sores. I applied different lotions procured from
the chemist, but they utterly failed to give me
relief. Seeing Zam-Buk advertised, 1 procured a
pot. Before I had used half of it, the sores vvefe
all healed, and the burning, irritating feeling had
left my feet.”
EVERYBODY’S EVER-READY SOOTHER AND HEALER.
Keep a pot of Zam-Buk handy for sunburn, rashes, Insect bites, prickly heat,
heat swellings, cuts, burns, bruises, chafings ; sore legs, backs, ankles or feet;
pimples, eruptions, etc. Of all chemists, or post free from C. E. FULFORD (aus-
tralasla) LTD., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney, for 1/6, or 3/6 large pot.
DU
RUB IT lNf
Choose a “Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer—those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
"Swam Safety
Can’t Leak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch !
Catalogue free on request.
MArSlE, TODD & CO., London and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE,
Sold by all Stationers
Branches. and Jewellers.
5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney.
that Never
Grow Hair.”
TOILET TALKS.
A DISTRESSING lack of hair will mar
the most beautiful face, and after all
there is really no need to have poor or im-
poverished hair if a few common-sense rules
are observed. First of all, hair tonics must
be freshly made in order to obtain the best
results, and thousands of women, and men,
too, are now making up their own lotions
with most satisfactory results. For this
purpose they obtain from, the chemist’s one
ounce or ooranium anu iuia. luis
with i-pint of bay rum, quite a
simple formula, and according to
all accounts remarkably effec-
tive. This simple, home-made
lotion quickly removes all dan-
druff, and creates a growth _of
new, healthy hair which will
gladden the heart of any woman.
One word in conclusion. Do
not experiment with your hair,
long suffering though it may be.
Nature will surely revolt if you
continue to subject the hair and
scalp to all kinds of fanci-
ful treatments. Employ a 'tonic
bv all means if such is required,
but, having found a satisfactory one, use no
other.
IVTOW about shampoos. Is it reasonable
to expect that one particular make will
suit everybody? Certainly not. Some folks
have dry and brittle hair, others have tresses
which are excessively greasy. Each requires
a different grade of shampoo, if one is to
obtain the best results. The writer’s notice
was recently brought to a substance called
nfyllax- which can be obtained from most
fg
chemists. It consists of small
which, when mixed with a cup of hot water,
make the most charming mixture imaginable
for shampooing the hair. According to the
quantity used, so the strength is graduated to
suit all conditions. There is one drawback,
however, and that is stallax can only be
obtained in Jib. tins, which cost about
half-a-crown, but as this quantity is suffi-
cient to make 25 to BO shampoos it is
really very economical in the
end. It leaves the hair a little
too wavy and fluffy for some
tastes, but this can always
avoided by rubbing a little olive*
oil on the scalp previous to
its application.
A FEW remarks on face
creams may not be out of
place, and, at the risk of being
put down as a little old-fash-
ioned, my advice on this subject
is to leave well alone. Do not clog
the pores with greasy concoctions
which not only prevent the skin
from performing its proper func-
tions, but usually result in en-
couraging a growth of hair on the fact, and
you know very well what that means —disfig-
urement for the rest of your natural days. If
it is necessary to use an emollient at all, get
some mercolised wax from your chemist and
apply in the usual way. This remarkable
substance seems to absorb the worn and
weatherbeaten outer cuticle, and in a few days’
time the new, healthy skin underneath peeps
forth in all its brilliance, and is, of
quite free from imperfection or blemish.
course,
[3
He was crawling through the spokes when
the wheel turned and jammed him, and old
Dowager drove water at him with her heels
in blinding showers.
I got him out, and without waiting for a
breath he plunged in again, and hauled the
mare’s head up above water. She looked
pretty sick. So did Thompson. He stood
nearly to his shoulders in water. The
mare was on her back, but the shafts partly
held her up.
Getting the Dowager out was ticklish
work. One had to dive dowm at times to
undo a chain or to cut a strap. Her
struggling to get up made things worse.
Jack essayed to hold her leg, and she
knocked both of us down and got her head
under again. Jack took no notice of his
own bruises and cuts and torn clothes, but
he was t'isibly concerned about the little
scratches on that priceless quadruped.
We got her out at last, and Jack spent
20 minutes rubbing her legs and examining
her generally.
The next thing was to get the cart up.
We couldn’t get the Dowager near enough
to the bank to do any good, and Thompson
wouldn’t go for another horse, or for help of
any kind. He had the reputation of being
a careful, trustworthy young man with
horses, and that reputation had to be con-
sidered. So we fished the harness up first,
then took the wheels off, and worked like
bullocks getting them to the top of the
bank. That made lunch-time. Thompson
wouldn’t stop for the usual “smoke-o” after-
wards, but hurried back to work. He just
loved work.
We spent three hours at that cart, zig-
zagging it up the bank with levers—six
inches at a time. Putting the wheels on
again was another prodigious task, and by
the time it was accomplished Thompson felt
a pressing need for refreshments.
We shoved the Dowager in the shafts
again and tied her to the fence. Then we
cut through Bellamy’s corn to Kenny’s puh,
which was not much more than a mile away,
and there we ran into an embarrassing
situation. The boss himself was in the bar,
chatting with Mrs. Kenny. Jack nearly
fainted. Trustworthy young men are not
expected to be found in public-houses when
they are sufiposed to be at work.
“Ilulloa, Jack!” he said. “What's the
matter ?”
Jack’s mind was a blank for a moment.
He could only raise a grin—a grim, bitter
sort of grin, such as he wore when the
Dowager knocked him down. Then, rest-
ing his hand on the bar. he noticed a
scratch on his finger, and it gave him an
inspiration. He held it iin.
“A gohanna bit me.” he said. “I—l
thought it might be dangerous.”
“Do you feel bad?” the boss asked.
“Feel a bit queer,” Jack said. He looked
it too.
The boss examined the wound.
“Must have been a very old gohanna,” he
remarked. “Only one tooth.”
“He didn’t get a fair holt o’ me,” Thomp-
son explained.
The boss turned to me.
“Have the gohannas been at you too?”
“No.” I answered, with a determination
to stick un for Thompson. “Jack thought
I’d better come with him in case he took
bad on the road.”
“Come and have a drink,” he said.
We didn’t mind, and when we had
emptied our glasses he added: “Now get
back and wire into that lucerne. That’s
the best antidote for gohanna bites.”
EDWARD S. SORENSON
Scared Off.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“T SUPPOSE I’ll forget him soon,” said
I the old maid of thirty, lighting her
third cigarette. “It’s only when
you’re a flapper that you single one man out
as a god and worship him. At least, that’s
what I did. Now I fall in love all over the
place—no sort of method at all in the mad-
ness. Why is it, I wonder?”
“Every pie-shop is tempting to a hungry
kid,” I hazarded.
“Hungry! I’m starving—starving for a
nice boy’s arm round my waist! But, really,
I have the rotteuest luck. They fall in love
with me all right; but something always
happens to put my pot on. Once it was a
maiden aunt who willed all her immense for-
tune to him on condition he married her
old lover’s only daughter. And, of course, I
—well. I just had to he sacrificed. The
South African war devoured another. One
time it was the lost letters made the trouble
—next, time mischief-makers. This time it
was Purity Leaguers.”
“How?”
“Wait and I’ll tell you. (Hand me the
matches, dear. It’s gone out —like my luck.)
Well, here’s the story cut short. He was in-
terested in geology. So was I. We were
staying at the same tourist resort, and very
soon were good chums —kept dodging about
in the mountain gullies hunting for fossils
and specimens. We carried home enough
rocks and things to start a little mountain
of our own, during the time we were there.
Every day we were together, tramping
through the rough country, climbiug moun-
tains and exploring deep, dark sanctuaries
of fern and wattle whore the sun never
shone.”
“What about the nights when the moon
shone?”
“Oh, then we just walked along beautiful
paths fretworked with tree-shadows, and sat
under gum-trees where ’possums swung by
their tails all night long.”
“Why, you had him in the bag!”
“Not yet. Listen, and believe me, if you
can. He wouldn't —he never tried to —he —
he— Oh. you don’t believe me!”
The alleged “old maid” had the softest,
loveliest black eyes, and a great, round dim-
ple in a cheek like a ripe peach. I looked
at her and said, “I don't!"
“I knew you wouldn’t! But it’s true, all
the same. He just sat and looked at me—
and I sat and ached for him. It hurt! My
waist-line hungered for his arm, and my head
longed to lie on his shoulder—and he just sat
there—with his hands in his pockets!”
I looked at her dear, huggable little figure
and said: “The chump! Why didn’t you
give him a broad hint?”
“I didn’t care about taking the initiative,
somehow. Woman’s love is supposed to be
passive, you know.”
“Usually the need doesn’t arise for it to
be anything else. But when it bumps up
against a passive resister it should be active.
But go on. How long did this passivity
last?”
The old maid smiled dreamily, and, by the
widening circumference of her great dimple,
I judged that something good must be coming.
“The moon had gone, leaving the world
dark; but we knew our way about by that
time, and easily found the favorite seat under
a thick-foliaged bull-oak. I sat down at one
end and he at the other — as usuul. The mild
night wind shouted and whispered by turns,
and tickled my ear with delightful, vague
secrets of good things to come. The old liar!
That wind was a magician, and the great,
green forest around us an organ for it to
play on. There was wild, throbbing music
in the gum-trees, music rustling and sweet
in the coarse grasses, music sad and weird
in the old bull-oak. Oh, that wind was a
performer, flow it played! Piano, cres-
cendo, forte, fortissimo, then diminuendo and
down to pianissimo again. Then that wind,
whatever its name was, shook its wings like
Milton’s angel and filled the air with the
fragrance of a thousand forests and five
hundred gardens. I was mad—drunk with
the delirium of the night. But why should
woman’s love always be passive? It was
quite dark; but somehow I knew that he was
gazing at me,, hungering for me, gritting his
teeth, fighting to keep his hands buried in his
pockets and his love buried in his heart. The
wicked wind came again—came with a rush
and a scent of violets, stirring the ancient
bull-oak madly, like an ancient witch stirring
her pot, then dropped suddenly and whispered
a command in my ear, and —I obeyed !
“I was at his side without knowing how
I got there, my hands on his arms, my eyes
gazing into his!.... ‘Harold !’ I whispered.
His arms hardened like iron, but trembled
under my hands. His face was set and firm,
but showed signs of a fierce struggle.
'Harold!' 1 cried again—this time brokenly
with a sob. Another sob echoed from the
wind in the bull-oak. 1 bent nearer till my
hair touched his face. 'Harold!' —in his ear
this time! Then the wind crept up and
whispered in the other ear, and
“Ilis arms closed suddenly about me,
crushed me. held me to him, put me away
from him, drew me to him again. Ilis kisses
burnt my face. The wind rushed past us
with a triumphant yell, brushing us rudely
as he passed. But we didn’t notice. I
caught my breath with the suddenness of it
all. and then grew dizzy. If he had not
held me so tight—and, oh ! he did hold me
tight—l should have fallen! The dark
world —a tiny globe miles beneath us —was
spinning in dizzy space, and I remembered
nothing, cared for nothing, thought of nothing
but that he was holding me —that my head
was pressed to his heart. The mischievous
wind caressed us softly—-as though we needed
his caresses —and scattered around us the
flavors of a million paradises, and the whole
of the Australian bush from Cape York to
Wilson’s Promontory. I was in Heaven !. . . .
“The sudden yellow glare of a lantern
blinded my eyes, and, at the same instant,
someone jabbed me in the ribs with the point
of an umbrella. With a wild exclamation
that was partly scream I leaped from my
paradise and fell to earth again, even as
Lucifer fell when he was hurled over the
battlements of Heaven. Then, unsteady on
my feet and gasping strangely, I turned to
find out what had happened.
“In the yellow light of the lantern, Harold
stood with' fists clenched staring wrathfully
at two strange figures —one a woman wear-
ing a shabby old Salvation Army bonnet and
bearing a gamp, the other a queer little hairy
man. He was holding the stinking, smoky
lantern aloft, and, by its light, I saw on
his chest a great white badge inscribed:
‘SOCIAL PURITY BRIGADE.’
“ ‘Harold Lindsay!’ wailed the Bonnet,
beating time with her great gamp on the
ground. ‘Yes, the president of our Social
Purity Brigade! You, of all people, actually
sitting on a sinful bench, out in the evil
night, under an unholy tree, nursing a
wicked hussy ! SHAME !’
“Unconsciously I was backing farther and
farther away into the darkness.
“ ‘This. is why thou art not on duty,
Harold Lindsay!’ groaned the little man.
wagging his whiskers fiercely. ‘Our blessed
society will demand to know the meaning of
all this evil, also of the sinful word you
spake when we brake in upon your lewd phil-
anderings!’
“ ‘Which I trust we did in time to prevent
even Greater Sin!’ moaned the awful
Bonnet.
“Harold had unclenched his hands. He
now covered his face with them and groaned
aloud.
“ ‘Lo ! he repents !’ shrilled Whiskers.
“ ‘Hallelujah !’ shrieked the Bonnet.
“ ‘But stay!’ moaned Whiskers. ‘We owe
a duty to yonder ungodly wench ! Hussy!
Come forth !’ ”
“And did you?” I gasped.
The old maid smiled and selected her
fourth cigarette. “Did you ever see me run,
dear? Would you believe that I’d be good
for over 20 miles an hour?”
“No!”
“Then it’s no use telling you. I ran and
ran until I came to the last steep hill above
the town, then stopped to gasp. The wind
came up the valley to meet me, laughing sar-
donically. There was a nasty raw nip in
it which chilled me, hot as I was. There was
also a smell of dirty old rags burning—like
a tramp on fire, you know.”
The old maid made a face at her cigarette
and flung it into the fire.
“And he?” I inquired.
“I left for town tjiat night bv the midnight
train and I never saw him again and never
shall.”
I went over and kissed her. “Cheer up.
old darling. There’s more fish in the sea,
and more pebbles on the beach, and more
cards in the pack.”
“And more Purity Leaguers in the bush.”
she sighed wearily.
BONA DEA


IF THE TRANSMISSION MEDIUM BE
A WESTINGHOUSE (MORSE)
SILENT CHAIN
'
Whether to line shaft, counter-
shaft or machine tool, there is
always the assurance that
Practically all the
Energy Developed by
the Motor is Utilised,
as the power wastage due to
the friction of sliding surfaces
is eliminated by
The Rocker-Joint
which embodies the principle
of the ball or roller-bearing.
Write for Booklet B.M. 310 to
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
'* " ,w Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike. Wellington.
null
Concord West, ». S. Wales
a
BOILER TROUBLES
and THEIR REMEDY
\
(i pcXioß
J
NOT A
boiler
FLUID
Let Your Boilerman Make a Test
(Jive liitn a Two-gallon Drum of Apexior—see that he applies it
in the right way—-and after a few months ask him if it has
not: stopped corrosion and pitting—if there is more senie on the
parts not covered with Apes tor— if the small amount of scale
adheriug to the part that is covered with Apexior falls off with
the slightest tap—if he thinks the efficiency of the Boiler would
he increased by its exclusive use. We are willing to let Apexior
he judged by his answer. But send for a trial drum while you
think of it.
Tried and Tested and Now Used Regularly by many of the
Largest Steam Users in Australia.
SOLE AGENTS- :
The Austral Engineering Supply Cos. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Dinnefqrd’s
DINNEFORD’S
In nans
of numeroii
tationspurc
must see the
“DINNEFOR
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
'he Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache.
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Afie
s>.
What a Beginner Says:
I like Rc/nmgtQf&UMC arms and ammu-
nition because I am a beginner and want
to start with the right material.
My friends have told me that I
must have perfect confidence in the
arms and ammunition I use because
it means a great deal to know that
it is my fault when a bad shot is
made. I find I am improving right
along and believe Remington-IIMC
cartridges hit where I aim, and
that’s why I use them.”
All Beginners Should Use
RmlngtQfl-UMC i
Remington Arms—
Union-Metallic Cartridge Co
New York London
Catalogs fret
r
*
A POPULAR ACT
Take
Bekham’s Pius
Your Benefits Start At Once.
>R. J.
Original and
IS BROWNE’S
Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
‘/l*. 2/9 & 4/b. Made in England.
tijtlcrcdf*
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectual I y
cuts short all
attacks et
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
*he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Aoto Hko a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard=
wood Riles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68§ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches iti all pares of the world.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF P
* look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyer’s
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing
DON’T LOOK OLD.
r o\
A
THE BEST DRINK
IN HOT WEATHER.
Large supplies have lately
arrived from London.
OF ALL STOREKEEPERS.
gd


f
rMANGROYITE w
leather
BtLTINdj
gr
is the ALL AUSTRALIAN BELT.
In having it >ou are not trading with the
enemy, nor adding to the profits of foreign
shareholders.
Sole Manufacturer and Proprietor:—
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 York Street, Wynyard Square, SYDNEY
(only).
Telephones: City 2898, 8406.
‘ON THE HOP—A superb library
volume, containing; over 300 of
‘‘Hop’s’’ best drawings. Price 21 /-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
They Please All Users of PIPE-THREADING TOOLS—
The OSTER Bulldog Die Stocks
RELEASING LEVER-
TO THE LEFT
OPE NS THE DIES 1
“The Bulldog Grip Never Slips.
There is no turning back over
the finished thread with an
“Oster Bulldog”—the Dies open
by simple release of lever and the
Stock instantly removed from the
work.
They have other exclusive fea-
tures, too, that will appeal to you.
Call and see demonstration, or write
for full descriptive booklet on “I ipe
Threading.”
AGENTS:
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
It is the Power
Your Belt
Transmits
that
Counts.
n*r.
SO.
CM
■X
<s>.
1
Be
Sure
and
Specify
DICK’S
BELTING
SoTiE Agents-
Jas. Hardie 8 Co.
Circular Quay,
SYDNEY.
And MELBOURNE.
The
Importance
of*
Efficient
Insulation!
ThP irrmortance of efficient insulation, in many cases, is not realised. Great
care “showS in thl selection of a steam plant to ensure the greatest economy,
vet the insulation which is of equal importance is in many cases paitly neg-
lected. If vou strive to make a saving in the steam consumption of jour
engine, why not make certain that it is not wasted again through faultj in-
sulation The claims we make as to the exceptional efficiency of Newall s
Coverings are telly borne out by actual test. and. further, by the enormous
sales, including repeat orders, and we do not know of a single instance where
any other covering has been used once Newall s have been tried.
The Ultimo and White Bay Power Houses are insulated throughout with
NewnlVs Coverings and this material has also been adopted exclusively by the
NSW and V ctorian Governments. These are facts which will tend to fur-
ther prove our claims. The innumerable advantages of this material over all
other P forms of lagging are described in interesting booklet, which we will be
pleased to mail you along with samples:
NEWALL’S '
MAGNESIA SECTIONAL
STEAM PIPE & BOILER
COVERINGS.
J. WILD RIDGE 8 SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Wellington, N.Z.
ME PH AN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Fiuming,
Patent “Nelyambo” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work .
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Cordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
BLAKE’S IMPROVED STEAM PUMPS
for Every Possible Service.
BOILER FEED PUMPS.
LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS.
TRIPLEX BELT-DRIVEN PUMPS.
PISTON PATTERN BELT-DRIVEN PUMPS.
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
Large Stocks carried by the Sole Agents—.
*
.«■
Write for Catalogue and Prices
H. P. GREGORY <&. CO.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
.
WOLVERHAMPTON
Manufacturers of the Highest
Class of Electrical Hachinery
of any pattern. Write for
Quotations to Sole Agents.
Warburton, Franki, Ltd.
asaa
l £2 W
307-309 RENT STREET, SYDN
IB
o' x "
m
en
is
Because impregnable in its supremacy, Lister is
the Sheep-Shearing Machine for all ages.
All parts guaranteed interchangeable with the
Wolseley.
Sxiperiority and Durability in Spare Parts are
the leading parts of Lister Duplicates.
Sole Agents for Australia:
Australian Farm Implements.
Harvesters, Drills, Ploughs, Cultivators, Chaffcutters, Harrows, Saw Benches, etc.
Australian Farm Engines
For Chaffcutting, Pumping, Sawing, Hoisting, etc.
Manufactured bv HUGH V. McKAY, Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
e~rs. St. wU lO2 M.itourn.jMJfrf Terrace, A***,..
“ Sunshine Farm Implements,” 48 pages, handsomely illustrated, is worth having. Sent post free on request. Wr te f : ■ :
USE BRITISH EXPLOSIVES ONLY.
The New Explosives Co. Ltd., Stowmarket, Suffolk, England,
FOR GENERAL MINING AND OTHER PURPOSES.
Dynamite, Gelignite, Nitro-Gelignite, Gelatine-Dynamite and Blasting Gelatine.
Permitted Explosives for Coalmines—STOWlTE, NEONAL and PETITE No. 2.
Ordinary and Electric Detonators, Fuse, Wire, Blasting Machines, etc.
N GUTHRIDGE LTD., Sydney & Melbourne.
