

the Whisky of Sterling Value
R. <3r. WATKI ■fS &C, CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 B nt Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sa nill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty: AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of Nev tli Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
M
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, 3YDNEY , 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And at Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street,
EUSTACE BENNETT,
>ane.
M
7"^
COfinOISStDR r
m
•f
St<
<r,Q
Supplied by the bottle, case or gallon at
wholesale price.
Richardson’s
Wine & Spirit Stores
Market St., j 158-Russell St.,
SYDNEY. | MELBOURNE.
Huttoivs
|» )?lfc “
Ha 5* Bacorv
?
ANTI BLOWPIPE
SAFES
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
organs.
mazEazß
1_
M
For INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
BCOBA.rtX.
M
The Best for Rough Roads.
The impregnated rubber=cord foundation of these tyres enables
them to resist moisture, strain and friction. Catalogue free.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne.
•11l
LMrILCMf
This is a picture of Dr. Brissenden’s
House at Narrabeen. N.S.W. It
is covered with a Malt ho id Roof —
proof against the salt air.
White
Malthoid Roofing
is the old and trusted Malthoid Roofing, with a coating or skin of asbestos. It
is a non-conductor of heat, so that buildings covered with it are cooler in
summer and warmer in winter. It is also a good-looker; it adds to the appear-
ance of any building. Would you like samples and some booklets? Glad to
send them.
MALTHOID
This is a view of Mr. D. ,S. Evans's
Bungalow at Lear a. Blue Moun-
tains. See liow the White Mal-
thoid Roof sets it off.
PARAFFINE PAINT
Manufacturers o/
<
m
w
D.
S.
tralasian
an
HOPPER WAGGONS,
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T *
M
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T °
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
ueen or states
Telegraphic Address—BACON, Murarrie, Queensland
• ■
A French Savant says that the great value of a mineral water lies
in what it deports rather, than in what it imports into the system.
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
Phillip St., Sydney, and R*dr~~.
The Bulletin
Yol. 35.—N0. 1816.]
[Thursday, December 3, 1914.
Registered at the General Post Office, Svdn S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NOVELS WORTH WHILE
Chambers’ Hidden Children.
Lynde: Hon. Senator Sage-Brush.
Hughes’ What Will People Say.
McCutcheon’s Black is White.
Williamson: Soldier of the Legion.
Gillniuie » i iiu vyfjcu x j ii.
Paine’s Adventures of Captain
O’Shea.
Wright’s Eyes of the World.
Savage: Turn of the Sword.
King’s Letter of the Contract.
I England’s Darkness and Dawn.
Davis’ Lost Road.
Barclay’s Wall, of Partition.
Jacobs’ Night Watches.
McCall: Ariadne of Allan Water.
All at 3/6 per Volume. Posted, 3/9.
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP'T’Y LTD., 25* PITT STREET, SY DNEY
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
For Coughs! Colds! Influenza ! LET THE BUYER BEWARES
rtMUWtX'I
HO
UMVYViOW
ISOM
SSS
rrit'
The large sale for “EUMENTHOL JU-
JUBES” has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of men-
thol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure and get
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES. You
may be asked to buy other jujubes, and be
told they are “just as good” as Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes. This proves that these
imitations and substitutes have no reputa-
tion of their own, and can only be sold on the
good repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
POST FREE ON
M3K 1/6.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS,
or from the Manufacturers—
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY. [2
The Red Page
Hogmany and Its Hogs
If only one-tenth of the books written
about Hogmany by the Hogmen had appeared
in English translation before the war the
war would have been postponed. Now that the
deluge is upon us some of the hundreds of
war books published annually in Hogmany
are being hurriedly translated.
The German Empire's Hour of Destiny,
by Col. H. Frobenius (Long, 25.), was
published only a few days before the war.
The author received from that half-baked
Hogzollern, the German Crown Prince, a
congratulatory telegram. The book is quite
poor enough to arouse the Hogman Crown
Prince’s rabid enthusiasm. It is a mere
enunciation of the texts of Bernhardi and
Homer Lea, with a few vapid comments.
Yet it adequately expresses the Hogman
view of the Allies, and credits England with
the devious diplomacy and the morals that
are peculiar to Prussia. Frobenius finds in
England’s “apparently friendly disposition”
concealed secret feelings of malevolence. And
England’s aim in the impending war is stated
to be the destruction of Hogmany’s navy,
sparing if possible her army. Accordingly
Frobenius expects England to employ her
army unwillingly. Her aim always is “to
employ mercenaries or to make her allies
bleed for her.” The British method is to
“keep up communication with her base, Eng-
land, and to avoid every decisive action so
long as this is not enforced by the situation;.
and at the same time to avoid too close a.
junction with the operations of the allies.”
Both Frobenius and the Crown Prince have
had, we hope, ample opportunity to notice
England’s desire to avoid too close a junc-
tion with the French and Belgians, and to
escape from decisive actions.
However, the author becomes interesting
when he forecasts the probable action of
England in the case of a first, great success
over the Hogman army. Her aim then would
be to drive the hiding Hogman navy out ot
its harbors of refuge by her land forces
attacking the fortresses, as Japan did at
Port Arthur. He also informs us that Eng-
land has made her preparations for landing
on the west coast of Jutland, thus securing
herself a second line of communication. .. bhe
is asserted to have exercised “great influ-
ence” on the enlargement of the tiny, but
excellent, harbor of Esbjerg. This harbor
is used for the trade in butter and eggs
carried in English ships. Recently it has
been dredged and enlarged; and Frobenius
comments: “It is obvious that such a dis-
proportionate extension of the harbor works
cannot be attributed to the export of butter
and eggs.” In case of war the Hogman
author assumes that Denmark will be found
on the side of the Allies: all the new Danish
defence works face Hogmany. Frobenius
finds, too, “a great diversity of interests
among the Allies; and the idea of England
unselfishly devoting her forces to save France
is scouted. Frobenius actually believes that
Churchill’s suggestion for a year’s naval
holiday was “a crafty move” in order to
make up the deficiency in the personnel of
the fleet, while she could employ her dock-
yards building ostensibly for other Powers.
But even a Hogman cannot convince the
world that his nation seriously believed that
England meant to make a surprise attack on
the Hogman fleet. And at the date of the
publication of the book Frobenius asserts
that “it is almost impossible for the French
army to engage in war .at the present
moment.” Discussing Belgium’s sympathy
with France and the probability that she will
not offer any opposition to a march through
her territory—by the French—Frobenius in-
appropriately points out that it is Belgium’s
duty as a neutral state to resist. Of course,
in the case of Germany, Belgium’s duty and
rights do not matter.
One wonders if Frobenius would welcome
now a congratulatory telegram from that
military failure, the Hogman Crown Prince?
Truth About Germany: Facts About the
War, is the title of a publication issued by
an immensely influential committee of Hog-
men, intended solely for consumption in the
U.S.A. Printed in English, it had nor indi-
cation of its publisher or place of issue; and
it was jealously kept out of England.
Judged bv the names of its sponsors, the
work is the best that official Hogmany can
say about itself. The correct title should be:
Falsehoods About Hogmany: Lies About the
War.
Under the title, Germany’s Great Lie,
Hutchinson publish this amazing “justifica-
tion” (Is. 6d. out here), with Douglas
Sladen’s exposures of its falsities paragraph
by paragraph. Frankly, Sladen was un-
necessary. The publication of the book
exactly as it was printed is its ample con-
demnation. All that needs to be done is to
extract from this “secret White Paper” some
of its choicest phrases.
“Only a few weeks ago... .not one human
being amongst us dreamed of war.. ..We
are a nation that wishes to lead a quiet and
industrial life.... Germany has to fight for
her existence. She will fight knowing that
the great Powers beyond the ocean will do
her justice as soon as they know the truth.”
(They will.)
The fatuousness of the Hogman editors is
evident from this little side-light into the
Hogman mind, showing that Hogmany
hadn’t a thought of war: “A thing . that
raised the national enthusiasm still higher
was the appearance of the troops in brand-
new uniforms, complete from head to foot.
The first sight of these new uniforms, of
modest field-grey, faultlessly made, evoked
everywhere the question: ‘Where did they
come from?’ On the first day of mobilisa-
tion dozens of cloth manufacturers appeared
at the war ministry with offers of the new
material. ‘We don’t need any,’ was the
astonishing reply. Equal amazement was
causea oy the faultless new boots and shoes
of the troops, especially in view of the
famous ‘boot speech’ of the French Senator
Humbert. Small arms, cannons and ammuni-
tions are so plentiful that they have merely
to be unpacked. In view of all this, it is
no wonder that the regiments marching in
were everywhere greeted with jubilation, and
that those marching out took leave of their
garrisons with joyful songs.”
Some more Hogmanisms: “Contrary to
general expectation, the German fleet has
taken the offensive, and the first loss of the
war is on the English side and in _ English
waters, the English cruiser Amphion run-
ning on to German mines in the mouth of
the Thames. In the Baltic and the Medi-
terranean, also, German ships have taken the
offensive against the enemies’ coast, as is
shown bv the bombardment by the Germans
of the war harbor of Libau and of forti-
fied landing places on the Algerian coast.”
(A glorious offensive!) A whole chapter
has this delightful title : “Germany over-run
by, spies for /years past”....“No one knew
better than the Czar the German Emperor’s
love of peace.” (The world can certainly
credit the Czar with that much sense.)
“Germany cared in a humane and proper
manner at the outbreak of the war for those
non-combatant subjects of hostile States....
who happened to be in the country at the
time.... The occurrences in Belgium are in-
famous beyond description.” (The reader will
be mildly amused to learn that these occur-
rences in Belgium are not the atrocities com-
mitted by Iloginan troops, but Belgium’s
alleged “announcement that strong French
detachments stood ready to march through
that country against the advancing German
army.”) Further: “German women were
dragged naked through the streets [in Bel-
gium] by the mob and shot to death before
the eyes of the police and the militia....
children were thrown from the windows of
German homes into the streets and their
limbs were broken.” (Names, please!) “The
German White Book prints documents proy-
ing [we use the Hogman capitals] THE
WHITE PURITY OF THE GERMAN
CONSCIENCE as represented by Kaiser,
Chancellor and people. It reveals also ,the
profound grief of the German Kaiser over
the sly and insidious perfidy of the Czar,
toward whom he steadily maintained Ger-
man fidelity even in hours of grave danger.”
(The world knows now the meaning of
phrases like “the German conscience” and
“German fidelity.”)
The book is well worth reading. The
world cannot know too much about Hogman
honor, Hogman chivalry, Hogmany’s concep-
tion of morality and truth.
Willy, Georgie and Nicky
The second German White Paper, as well
as the Russian Orange Paper, is included in
the seventh edition of the N. Y, Times
supplement, containing the first' White
Pavers of England and Germany. The
second German publication is entitled Sow
the Franco-German Conflict Could Have
Been Avoided, and is issued from Berlin in
English, not in German. The curious fact
comes out in this correspondence between the
respective monarchs of Germany and Eng-
land that these individuals in communicating
with each other observe no titular conven-
tions. The Kaiser signs himself “Willy,”
the King subscribes himself “Georgie,” and
both speak of the Czar as “Nicky.” Willy
telegraphs thus: “I have just received news
....that this night Nicky has ordered the
mobilisation of his whole army and fleet.”
The documents are of no value, except to show
that Willy, like his Chancellor, uses diplo-
macy of the same old tainted German brand.
The Russian Orange Paper shows the sincere
efforts made by Russia to prevent the Euro-
pean conflagration. Like the British paper
it is issued without comment. An interesting
insight into Austrian diplomatic methods is
afforded by this telegram from the Russian
Ambassador in France to the Russian Minis-
ter: “It follows from your telegram of July
13 that you did not know the reply of the
Servian Government. The telegram by which
this news was communicated to me from Bel-
grade has likewise been en route for 20 hours.
The telegram from the French Minister of
Foreign Affairs, dispatched the day before
yesterday, at the triple tariff, at 11 o’clock in
the morning, only reached its destination at
six o’clock. "There is no doubt that this tele-
gram was intentionally delayed by the Aus-
trian telegraphic authorities.” And Germany
has a similar diplomatic method. The Russian
Charge d’Affaires in Berlin telegraphs thus to
the Russian Minister: “The Wolff Bureau
has not published the text of the Servian
response which was communicated to it. Up
to this moment this note has not appeared in
extenso in any of the local journals which,
according to all the evidence, do not wish to
give it a place in their columns, understand-
ing the calming effect which this publication
would produce upon the German readers.”
Delaying telegrams and suppressing news —•
—these are the Austrian and German
methods which brought about the war.
Local war publications include: How Aus-
tralia took German New Guinea, a collection
of photographs bv F. S. Burnell (Angus and
Robertson; Is. 6d.), and Australia's Christ-
mas Greeting (same publishers; Is.), con-
taining a poem by John Sandes, entitled
“Australians to the Front,” and photopn-nohs
of the N.S.W. troops parading Sydney.
The Expansion of Sydney (J. Feldheim,
Melb.) is.the latest of the series of publica-
tions showing the growth, or bloath, of the
Australian cities, by means of old drawings
contrasted with modern photographs of the
same localities.
The Pantoum
“J.J.Q.” : Harrison Owen has strayed from
the doctrine of his master, de Banville, as set
forth in his Petit traite de la poesie t ran-
gaise, p. 247: “(1) The Pantoum is writ-
ten in four-line stanzas.... the second line
of each stanza becomes the first line oi the
following stanza, and the fourth line of each
stanza becomes the third line, of the follow-
ing. Moreover (U ) the first line of the poem
reappears at the conclusion, as the last line
of the final stanza. He stresses this further
essential (3) that one motif should run from
beginning to end of the poem in the urst
two lines of each stanza and another motif
similarly in the last two lines of each stanza.
De Banville’s metrical practice is followed
by Austin Dobson, Clinton Scollard and
Brander Mathews; in the case of the last,
with the third line of the first stanza re-
peated as the second line of the last stanza;
but the parallelism of theme, disregarded by
all three, has been carefully observed by
John Payne, who appears to have introduced
the arrangement of the last stanza used by
H.O. Examples will be found in Gleeson
White’s Ballades and Rondeaus. The proto-
type, a prose translation of a Malay pan-
toum, is quoted by Hugo (who wrote none)
in a note to Les Orientates (note 11, ed.
1834). Fouinet’s version neglects condition
(•2) above, but the two themes—the flight
of butterflies and of a vulture, the girl’s
praise of her lover —are clearly marked.
Baudelaire’s “Harmonie du soir” (Fleurs
du mal, p. 155), a marvel of riming (four
stanzas on two rimes) follows Fouinet,
with the added difliculty in the case of a
pantoum, of the In Memoriam stanza.
d*
A. Howe: —»
4 our competition recalled to my mind
some interesting facts about the history of
the Pantoum, which might possibly be new
to some of your readers, as the form is
unusual. While iia the Indies, Some speci-
mens of native verse in pantoum form came
under my notice, and I learned that for cen-
turies this form had been used by Malayan
and Philippino for their dramatic verse. In
the sixteenth century or a little earlier the
pantoum was introduced into Europe by
Spanish verse writers, who had imitated well
the melancholy effect wrought by the skilful
mime of the repetitions. _
The Malayan loves this melancholy, and
never uses the form for anything other than
the most tragic arid passionate of themes.
The proper Oriental form has two distinct
themes, which can be equally well rendered
separately or together. The Malayan re-
cites beautifully, accompanying himself with
rhythmic movements which are too expres-
sive, to be called a dance.
Except for the clever and amusing speci-
men on your page I have not come across
the form used in any other than a tragic, or
in a melancholy manner. I shall therefore
look forward with interest to see what Aus-
tralians will do with it. Of Australian
poets with whose work I am familiar I
should think D. McKee Wright or Rodenc
Quinn would use the form well in Malayan
manner.
Entries for the Australian Pantoum guinea
competition must reach this page by Decem-
ber 19.
The Crime of War
Only last year was published an English
translation of a remarkable book, written as
long ago as 1870 by an Argentine jurist,
Juan G. Alberdi. In The Crime of War
(Dent, per Sydney Book Club)t, Alberdi
anticipates many of the moral judgments of
the civilisation of to-day. He speaks the
language of 1914: even in his statement of
the ambitions and methods of Germany his
words are apt. He is the evangel (of 1870)
of Norman Angell (of 1912).
Briefly, Alberdi’s indictment of war as a
crime is that in war the litigant makes him-
self the judge. It is not the employment of
force that makes war criminal; for a judge
himself, in the last resort, has to employ
force to make his just decisions binding. It
is the act of setting oneself up as a judge
over one’s adversary that the _ law rightly
presumes a crime, because it is impossible
that a man should be able to take the law
into his own hands without doing injustice
to his adversary. A judge executes a man
found guilty of murder: that is an act of
justice. A criminal kills a man: that is a
murder.
“War is a method which nations employ
to administer to one another criminal justice
with this particularity: that in every process
each side is at once judge and culprit, pro-
secuting counsel and accused —the judge and
the thief, the judge and the slayer,.. .War
is a court of justice—without a judge, com-
posed of partisans, and, of course, biased
'and wrongly constituted. Rather may it be
said: it is a court of justice administered
by criminals.... The judge who knowingly
tries, condemns and punishes his personal
enemy ceases to be a judge and is nothing
else but a delinquent. His finding is not a
sentence, it is a crime.”
Then what punishment is there for a
criminal who possesses an army of millions or
men? What judge can condemn this criminal
disturber of the peace, and where is the force
bv which that judge can back up his juog'
ment? Alberdi finds in the neutral nations
the judges of a war, and in the general
opinion of the world, even though it cannot
be backed up by armies, he finds the weapon
that will ultimately condemn and punish tne
Master-Criminal. (And, judged by that
world-tribunal, William the Second and .Last
stands waiting for the trap to fall.)
“The establishment of criminal responsi-
bility will, ultimately, be the only effectual
means of preventing the crime of war, m
the sam§ way as it prevents crime in general
Place war on a level with any other
crime and its principals on a par with
criminals, and its repetition will become as
exceptional and rare as that of murder or
robbery.... For murderers, thieves and ban-
dits there is the scaffold—not the throne :
infamy, not honor The sovereign who is
indebted to the sword for his existence, and
who has settled by its means every question
which has given him power, will not relin-
quish that weapon in governing his subjects
.... So every warlike country ends by suner-
ing the fate which it set out to inflict on its
enemies through warfare. Its sovereign
power may not pass into foreign hands, but
it will certainly fall from its own, to be
taken up by.... that separate and privileged
community called the army.”
More remarkable, however, than this un-
conscious forecast of 1914 are the author s
brilliant “Notes on War,” which form a con-
siderable part of this work. In these brief
judgments, written while the Franco-1 rus-
sian war was raging (1871), Alberdi offers
conclusive testimony that the Prussian has
not changed, cannot change.
“In vain does Prussia say that she wages
modern warfare. A king with Divine right,
a feudal monarchy, a minister a la Richelieu
....cannot represent anything modern in
the nineteenth century. Prussia wages the
most ancient of modern wars —"it is Roman
warfare, including all that is most incom-
patible with justice—conquest, the
and shameless right of sheer victory... .The
Prussian Government recognises two laws
of nations: one, ChristiaU and modern, under
which war is made on soldiers —not on citi-
zens and private individuals; the other,
Roman and ancient, under which "war is
made on a nation, including both soldiers
and citizens.” , ■ . ' -
And this, of Prussian conduct m 187 U-1,
has immediate application to-day.
‘'Prussia may gain much in this war
which she is waging in 1870; but all her
territorial conquests will never be of suffi-
cient value to compensate for what she loses
in the opinion of the civilised world, for her
acts of incendiarism, and requisitions, and
the firing at and bombardment of inoffensive
towns.... The present-day Germans repre-
sent the instincts of the Romans as con-
querors of the world. Like the Romans,
they have made warfare their study and their
favorite science.... But they have omitted
one thing... .If the Germans are not to live
by conquest, booty, pillage, rapine, as the
Romans did, what is the use of their im-
proving warfare to the point, which the
Romans arrived at, with the aim of exclu-
sively living by it? If that ethic and that
policy hurled the Romans to . their utter
destruction against the barbarians of the
North, leagued together to revenge their pro-
vocations, the modern Romanised Germans
of the present time (1871, remember) would
only be dashed to destruction when they
hurfed themselves against a coalition of the
existing nations provokeu and threatened in
their laborious and civilised existence by the
scientific revival of international robbery.
The fate of the Emperor of (Germany would
bo that of the Emperor Napoleon 1., who
restored before him that policy and warfare
of the Romans of a past age.”
Somehow, it seems a pity that William the
l atest and the Last hadn’t time to read The
Crime of War.
— a—
The heresy of “M.H.”: Concerning . that
“dawn-morn” rime that cropped up again in
a recent Bulletin competition, what is
wrong with it anyway? It is an accepted
rule that you mustn’t “dawn-morn,” but why?
“Awn” and “orn” are two different shots at
the same sound; and if both shots set up the
same vibration it doesn’t matter what arrange-
ment of hieroglyphs is used to indicate it.
Poetry, apart from its burden of thought and
emotion, is for the ear, and if the ear is not
offended the dictionary should have nothing
to say to it. (That there is often a special
charm in quaint, archaic spelling is outside
my present contention. It is not the rime
sense that is being titillated in those cases,
but something more subtle.) Take a word
like “rime” : some orthographers in the course
of trimming and combing the English lan-
guage into book form, got mixed between
“rime” and “rhythm” and worked a Greek
“hy” into the Anglo-Saxon word. Now, as
either spelling is allowable, the poet who
rimes “rhyme” must, according to this diction-
ary-bound rule, fall back on “thyme,” but if
he rhymes “rime” he has “time,” “clime”
and all the rest of them at his disposal. That
sort of thing is enough to turn one into a
futurist!


CrtJpamocd&as'foje
No. 7V White Treadle Sewing Machine.
With VIBRATING SHUTTLE. Figured Oak
or Walnut Woodwork and Bentwood Cover,
Drop Leaf: 1 Centre and 2 Side Drawers,
Nickel-piatel Fly Wheel. Complete with the
King Steel Set of Attachments. Packing for
the Country. 2/6 extra.
Price £5 15s.
ccanni
Ho
Z^r
op
pssy.
op.
No. 24V—White Treadle Sewing Machine
With VIBRATING SHUTTLE MOVEMENT,
Oak or Walnut Woodwork, Drop Head, with
Automatic Lift; Cabinet Front, 2 Drawers, and
Nickel-plated Fly Wheel. Complete with King
Steel Set of Attachments.
Price £6 2s. 6d.
The WHITE embraces all that stands
for Efficiency in Sewing Machines, such
as Bali Bearings, Pinch Tension and
Tension Releaser, as well as the White
Tension Indicator, an improvement
found on no other machine.
m
□
i
No. 30R —White Grand Mission Rotary
Is a three-quarter Cabinet, made up in the popular Mis-
sion style, richly finished in quarter-sawed Golden Oak,
an attractive vet unique design. Finished with Nickel-
plated Fly Wheel, Automatic Lift, symmetrically built
Wooden Frames to replace the Iron Legs, 3 Self-locking
Drawers each side of Table, and at the bottom two large,
roomv receptacles, where Books, Music, etc., may be
stored. Fitted with Ball Bearings, and supplied with
the latest-style Steel Attachments. Packing for the
Country, 2/6 extra.
Price £,9 2s. 6d.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
for the World-Renowned
WHITE Sewing Machines
BUY THE WHITE SEWING MACHINE—
To turn out more and better sewing with less labor;
For its light-running, easy-sewing qualities;
For its fine mechanical adjustment;
For its beauty of construction and durability.
For its incomparable labor-saving devices, which are
exclusively WHITE—for example, its tension indi-
cator, etc.; for its attachments and improved features,
which enable unfinished work to be removed and
replaced at will.
/H
No. 25?.
n
The white drop head
AUTOMATIC LIFT is the
latest improvement in SEW-
ING MACHINES, and is a White
feature.
No. 25Y. —
White
Treadle
Sewing
Machine
With Vibrating
Shuttle, Oak or
Walnut Woodwork,
Cabinet Front,
Drop Head, and
Automatic Lift,
Xickel-plated Fly
Wheel, Four Draw-
ers, Complete, with
King Steel Set of
Attachments.
Packing for the
Country, 2/6 extra.
Price £6/10/-
No. 22Y —White Treadle Sewing Machine
With VIBRATING SHUTTLE MOVEMENT. The
Machine is enclosed in a HANDSOME OAK or
NUT CABINET, as shown in the Sketch. WHEA
OPENED FOR USE, the leaf turns over and EN-
LARGES THE TABLE, at the same time the head ot
the Machine comes automatically into position, the door
swings back and forms a strong support. Complete
with the King Steel Set of Attachments.
Price £B.
Duplicate Parts o! the World-Renowned Light-Running Silent
WHITE SEWING MACHINES Always Available at the New
Palace Emporium. Consult our Illustrated Departmental Price
Lists for Anything you want. Write for Copies, posted Free
on request, and reap the Full Benefit of our Spot Cash Trading.
No. 2V —White Treadle Sewing Machine,
With VIBRATING SHUTTLE. Figured Oak
or Walnut Woodwork, Bentwood Cover and
Centre Drawer. Nickel-plated Fly Wheel.
Complete with the King Steel Set of Attach-
ments. Packing for the Country, 2/6 extra.
Price £5 2s. Gd.
iiiiiiiiihii ||| i
iiiiiiiiiii
n'"i
H
o«.
©op.
oQ
©P
©P
o<=>
C.O
No. 27V—White Treadle Sewing Machine
With VIBRATING SHUTTLE MOVEMENT,
Oak or Walnut Woodwork, Cabinet Front,
Drop Head, with Automatic Lift; 6 Drawers;
Nickel-plated Fly Wheel. Complete with the
King Steel Set of Attachments. Packing for
the Country, 2/6 extra.
Price £7 ss.
There is no better Machine made than
the World-renowned WHITE, which
combines Simplicity, Quality and
Economy, with Faithful Construction
and Elegant Finish.
All White Machines have Ball Bearings.
'll™
m
"o
m
m
S fO
//
No. 29V —White Sewing Machine
Ts a handsomely--constructed, three-quarter Drop
Cabinet enclosing a WHITE SEWING MACHINE,
with Vibrating Shuttle Movement, ready for use, fitted
with Bali Bearings, Automatic Lift, 11>
Wheel, with 5 Drawers on one side and - Receptacle.,
on the other, all enclosed. A very jj e g 1 t |"i
Furnished with a complete Set of the Latest stile Steel
Attachments. Packing for the Countij. ~/0 exua.
Price £,9 2s. 6d.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium
Bricßfield Hill
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


\
Self-Loading Shotgun, 12 Gauge
The Winchester Model 1911 Self-Loader is a wild-fowl gun par excellence. The
recoil ejects the fired shell, feeds a loaded shell from the magazine into the
chamber, cocks the hammer and leaves the gun ready to be fired again. In wild-
fowl shooting, the game often comes fast and when least expected. Shoot a
Winchester Self-Loader and you can always be for a series of shots; for
the loading and firing of this gun are controlled by ths trigger finger. As the re-
coil of this gun is used to operate the reloading mechanism, the “kick” of heavy
loads is minimized, making the gun very pleasant to shoot. It is a hammerless,
two-part, take-down, five-shot repeater, that works well with all standard loads.
The working parts being made of Nickel steel, make it strong and safe.
Ask your dealer to show you the Winchester that’s
LOADED BY RECOIL, CONTROLLED BY THE FINGER TRIGGER.
Your Tongue never fails
to tell you when your system is out of order. Look
now and see if it is thick, creamy-coated. This is the
sign the Doctor always looks for when he suspects
biliousness or a disordered stomach, and were you to
ask his advice he would most probably tell you that
the best remedy is Cockle’s Antibilious Pills, which
are made according to the prescription of a famous
English Doctor.
Cockle’s Pills
A REPUTATION OF OVER 100 YEARS.
Never advocated as a panacea for all ills, but for those
occasions when you don’t feel quite “ up to the mark”;
when you feel drowsy, heavy-headed, liverish, out-of-
sorts ; when your tongue is white, breath unpleasant
and complexion sallow—that is the time when Cockle’s
Pills prove invaluable. Two Cockle’s Pills to-night
will work wonders by
to-morrow —try them !
M
In the Old Coaching Days
in England long before railways existed Cockle’s
Pills constituted the sole family corrective in thou-
sands of homes. Merit alone has enabled them
to stand the test of time longer than any other.
COCKLE’S PILLS
Of Chemists throughout
the World. Prices in
England,, i/ii & 2/9 a box
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRADE MARK
SPLENDID 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra long range.
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/6. D.8.8.L. GUN, fitted with
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified steel barrels,
walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN EXCELLENT
KILLER. Holiday Price, £3/10/- D.8.8.L. GUN, choke and modified steel
barrels. Government Tested. THE FARMER’S FRIEND. Special Price,
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 22 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice and
light. A very accurate little weapon. THE YOUTH’S FAVORITE. Holiday
Price, 14/6. CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent ejector. Takes .22
long, .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best sellers. Holiday
Price, 18/6. Write for Our Catalogue.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Largest Importers of Arms and Ammunition in the Commonwealth
242-4 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF GENUINE
D
\ I
D
FITTINGS
“THOROUGHLY
*> BRITISH.”
c
u
m
V.
IF your bicycle is a B.S.A. every
day you ride you will appreciate
its easy running qualities.
At the end of twelve months you
will realize what B.S.A. reliability
means, because the repair account will
be practically nil. ?
When you think you would like a
new machine you will be pleased your
old one was a 8.5. A., because you will
be able to sell it for a good price, while
if it had been a cheap “ pattern ” machine
it would simply sell as “scrap iron.”
You get better service all round if
your bicycle is built of B.S.A. Fittings.
B.S.A. Handbook Free.
D. Y. RENNIE (Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
B.S.A CHEAPEST IN THE END
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY NORPCRN SONS LTD.,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
FOR PIPE OF ALL KINDS
GOME TO THE MANUFACTURER
H
wm.
m
We are Manufacturers of Pipe for every purpose, as well as
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswork. For these kind of
Goods we offer you the Most Reliable Quality, at Lowest
Quotations.
WROUGHT IRON PIPE AND FITTINGS.
MALLEABLE WASTE PIPE AND FITTINGS.
LEAD, COMPO., TIN, OR GALVANISED
PIPE.
STEAM PIPE, SHEET LEAD, BRASS AND
LEAD TRAPS.
ENGINEERS’ & PLUMBERS’ BRASS WORK.
The Special House for Engineers’ and Plumbers’ Tools; also,
Tools of all Trades.
If unable to call, remember that your letters will be
attended to with great care.
JOHN BANKS 8 SON
PROPRIETARY LTD.
324 PITT ST., near Liverpool St., SYDNE^
M
HEAR
LATEST 8-TONE
Mears Ear-phone
The final triumph of the inventor of the first successful multi-tone
Ear-phone. IF YOU ARE DEAF, this perfected instrument will enable
you to hear DISTINCTLY, PERFECTLY.
Eight Tones! 8 different adjustments to suit every condi-
tion of the ear. Instantly changed by a touch of the
finger. Just as easily and as satisfactorily regulated for
the hearing as field-glasses are for the sight. Thus ensur-
ing- perfect hearing in all degrees of deafness.
The Hears Ear-phone is based on the microphonic sound-
reproducing principle. Highly sensitive and self-adjusting it intensifies the faintest sounds to just
that degree required in ordinary conversation, or in the Church or Lecture Hall. Comfortably carried
in the vest pocket or pinned to the blouse. Call and test it free, or write for full particulars.
SYDNEY: A. E. Slade, Bernard’s Buildings, 387 George Street.
MELBOURNE: L. G. Callaway & Down, Tuckett Chambers, 361 Collins Street.
BRISBANE*: Carl Zoeller Ltd., 246 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE: Chas. Balfour,- Central Chambers, Charles Street.
HOBART: Chas. Davis Ltd., Elizabeth Street. '
AUCKLAND: Clem Bartley, 8 Ponsonby Road.
Mears Ear-phone Co. Inc., 45 West 34th St., New York, U.S.A.
Australasian
Representative—
A. E. SLADE,
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 George Street,
SYDNEY.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, vSydney


OilYottr typewriter
'MSth 3- m-Ome l «
It’s the best—that's why !
A machine oiled with “3-in-
One” has quiet, easy action,
does better work, and lasts longer.
“Three-in-One” Oil
lubricates the fine action-parts
perfect'y, removes all dirt, and
prevents rust.
It keeps the typefaces, keys,
and all other parts in beautiful
order.
Cleanest 0.1 in the World 1
It won’t mark the paper. Never
smears nor thxkens.
“Three-in-One” Oil
is sold in Bottles and Handy Can.
Sample Bottle and Booklet
Freel Send NOW,
REID & REID,
Australasian Agents,
82 J>, HARRIS ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z.
1 O - HAINES
14
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL.
M
Packed Free. All charges Prepaid to your
* Port direct from our Factory. Highest-
grade British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
l Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears,
I Flyer or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
LATEST
MODELS
£3 m 10 to £Q
Tyres and accessories half usual prices.
«f* rMTC wanted in each district. Write
HULnlu at once, using sufficient postage,
for Free Art Catalogue, and our
Special Offer on sample machine.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept. A 282 LIVERPOOL.
WAR
Prompt Shipment § Safe Delivery
Guaranteed. No Advance in Prices
AGENT for MEAD CYCLES
VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND. ALL MODELS.
LETTERS COPIED WHILE WRITING
(in ink) by using your own Letter-paper_
with this Book. You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing- you
secure a perfect letter and a
perfect copy. There is no
w
sign of copying. 400 octavo Bin. x sin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/200 Book, size lOf x
B§. post free 4/6; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Bin. x sin., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper which
produces this result, free if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic, Leicester, England.
Zanetic goods obtainable from Sands & McDougall,
Ltd., Collins Street West, Melbourne, and Branches
at Adelaide and Perth.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over- .300 .. of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Eley
'Grand Prix’
Cartridge Case,
loaded with Eley
Smokeless, Ballis-
tite, Smokeless <£>
Diamond,‘•'chultze,
or any standard
smokeless po .vders
Eley*4so
Revolver
Eley32o
Revolver
Always
Reliable
M
M
Eley*3lo
Cadet
Smokeless
•450
No. 1
Rifle
Eley
Single Rise
Expert Trap
Eley Targets
for Trap
Shooting
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, deorge Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
Wholesale: Eleyßros..Ltd.,London
m m
P
mm
r~~i
mm
o
$■
©a
"iimm
: : m t
, n
|; IP 1
o
p- . @[pf
'•
'
QD
-CURES DRUNKARDS-
Without their Knowledge ?-YES ! Golden Specific will cure any case of drunk-
enness without the patient’s knowledge 1 It is tasteless and odorless, and can easily be given secretly.
TO PROVE IT, we will send a FREE SAMPLE to all who are interested on receipt of a 2d.
stamp. . . A recent letter states that a man who was a drunkard for 40 years was cured m about 2 weeks
with this treatment. It quickly eradicates all craving for strong drink, and gives back to the one-time
drunkard all the vigor and vitality he has wasted by his excesses, making him healthy, happy and prosper-
ous. Write for sample and particulars to-day. GOLDEN SPECIFIC Co., (Dept g 2018) Pitt St., Sydney
THIN WOMEN!
What is more pitiable than a pretty woman whose neck, arms and
scraggy chest destroy her every chance of being really charming?
Nothing gives charm to a woman so much as does a full, well-rounded,
perfectly-developed figure. If you laik it, science will enable you to
obtain it.
WHEN you look into the mirror and your
hollow cheeks, thin neck and scrawny
arms mock even you, what effect do
you suppose they have on those with whom
you mix socially ?... .A woman’s chief charm
is a well-rounded figure and full bosom. With
these, thin arms and hollow cheeks are a
rarity.
If your bust lacks development, and you
are scraggly and attenuated, we will advise
you free and gladly as to how you may im-
prove your figure and beautify your bust.
We are only too pleased to tell you the
secret, for we know it cannot fail, and that
in a few weeks you will be happier, healthier
and more sought after socially than in your
present undeveloped, emaciated condition.
Thousands of women suffering the ravages
of ill-health have sought and accepted this ad-
vice, and to-day are models of womanly de-
velopment and examples of perfect health.
The same success awaits your call. In the
wake of attenuation follow such complaints
as constipation, indigestion, bilious head-
aches, internal functional derangements, etc.
As your development advances and weight im-
proves, these gradually disappear and perfect
health results.
Every case is accepted under a guarantee
to refund fee if satisfactory results do not
follow the use of the treatment. SEND FOR
SPECIMEN COPY OF GUARANTEE.
Pleased Beyond
Expression.
Spring Hill,
Queensland.
The Manager.
M
Dear Sir,—Words fail to express my
gratitude for what your wonderful
remedy lias done for me. Since taking
Flesh-Food my health is much better,
my appetite is keen, I enjoy my meals,
and I can see that they nourish me
properly now. My weight increased
nicely, and my bust has enlarged by
four inches, and has not stopped cle-
veloping yet. My hips are now nicely
rounded, and my health is splendid.
Yours faithfully, ROSE WAGNER.
FREE SAMPLE. FREE BOOK.
Send a 2d. stamp and let us tell you the
secret free, and also send you a free sample
of treatment. No matter where or how far
away you live you can be properly treated by
post. ' Write to-day. Lady attendant to callers.
FALLIEItE FLESH-FOOD CO.,
1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY. 11820?
The low running expenses of the Triumph 4 h.p. recommend this motor to. all
thoughtful buyers. With sidecar attached it forms the most economical
motoring for two.
It possesses ample speed and power for all parts of the country, allowing the
rider to maintain a splendid average over a day s run.
Just investigate its many merits before deciding on your new mount.
VICTORIA: Milledge Bros.. 264 Post Office Place,
Melbourne. N.S. WALES : Bennett & B.'.rkell. Ltd.
S. AUSTRALIA: J. Hill & Sons, Representatives,
63, Grenfell Street, Adelaide ; Eyes & Crowle,
Local Distributors, 125 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
W. AUSTRALIA : The Armstrong Cycle & Motor
Agency, Hay Street, Perth. QUEENSLAND : The
Howard Motor & Cycle Co., Ltd., 376-8 Queen Street,
Brisbane. TASMANIA : J. Bilyard, The Havelock
Cycle and Motor Works, 141 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
j'n
y
ii&
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tc-rnpt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good.' It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating front
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The.Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Franl: Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “l was a heavy smoker for 65 years,
but after taking your treatment for Hi days 1
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 29 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
[2.
ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have yon grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
Bend you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is. in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women <fe children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-at., Melbourne, Vic.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The Breed.
Like an old sheep-dog of the North.
Who had at home to stay,
From gathering bands of wolves to keep
Secure her tended flocks of sheep,
But sent her pups away,
Old Mother England sent us forth
In distant fields to play.
Then suddenly with snarling leap
The wolves to kill her tried.
She beat the prowling robbers back ;
Her home is safe from all attack;
But to her sons she cried :
“To you I give my flag to keep,
On my green pastures wide.
“My isle I’ll hold from hurt or shame,
As in the days of yore.
My sons are of The Breed, I know ;
I’ll blood my pups upon the foe,
As Drake did once before.
Go forth and learn the British game;
Baptise yourselves in war!”
For here and there a grey wolf strayed
Beyond the sheep-dog's ken.
The mother laughed: "I’ll stay at home;
But you have all my fields to roam ;
Attack them in their den.
Learn how the British game is played :
My summons makes you meu!”
Like puppies that too long had been
Kept chained, from kennels freed,
The yelping ships of England’s sons
Leapt out as did old England's once
Against the Spaniard's greed;
They ranged the Empire’s pastures green,
These sailors of The Breed.
The foe was scattered, smashed or sunk,
Each colony o’ertlirown ;
They mopped the wide Pacific up—
Samoa, Papua, pup by pup
Brought home his bloodied bone;
Until the gallant Emden slunk
Rapacious, sly, alone.
Coal up, full speed,, clear ship, away!
Range all the oceans o’er!
With spies the robber wolf to warn.
They sought and sought each empty morn,
With spirits fretted sore,
Until the dawning of “The Day”
Australia waited for.
The Sydney struck, straight blows and few,
And left a wreck, a-flame!
And, though the robber Emden sank
Two million pounds, her name we thank
For lifting us to fame.
The British seadog breed is true :
Our manhood now we claim!
The Emden not unhonored lies
Upon her islet hurled ;
What better death could she desire
That be herself the blazing pyre
That lights a startled world?
W-hat new,-starred flag is this that flies,
To.our great stars unfurled?
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. AUAMS.
Induration.
Give me the adamantine heart—
I would nbt*ask for softer ware —
From all men’s loves to dwell apart,
And have no heed for all men’s care;
That fellow-feeling hurt no more
Let-me be selfish to the core !
Long-drawn, and drawn for ever long.
The sinful skein of sentient things
Heaps ever up God’s cosmic wrong;
The dreary dreams of promised wings
Are sadder than unlitten deeps
Wherein a frigid numbness sleeps.
The praters, priests and prelates say,
■■-With unctuous ignorance of life:
“He moulded man from barren clay ;
As afterthought he made a wife;
As foolish prey for these He wrought
A‘ whole creation void <Tf thought!”
So here behold the sorry scheme
As taught to plastic girls and boys
Too young to note the hidden seam ;
A universe of useless toys.
Wiseacres say: “Too true, indeed, —
But God is still a human need.”
Turn not to this for any hope,
But take whatever earth may give;
We live by neither King nor Pope ;
By neither judge nor priest we live;
But, in the sunlight making growth,
Man and the midges prosper both.
And, therefore, knowing Nature’s part—
Her infinite and brutal care—
Give me the adamantine heart;
Too frail is any softer ware.
That slender swords may pierce no more,
Let me be selfish to the core !
VICTORIA.
C. G. A. COLIES.
Child Song—Sunset Bay.
Little wavelets, curly-wet, sipping at oiir
toes,
This is pretty Sunset Bay, as everybody
knows.
White foot, brown foot, little fishes’ tails —
Oh. there’s lots of laughing water where the
big ship sails!
Little wavelets, curly-wet, do you go to
school?'
Do you like the sands to shear all your pinky
wool ? 4
Red light, gold light, little nibbled moon—
All the world’s a cherry tart and no one has
a spoon.
Little wavelets, curly-wet, turn and' run
away,
Thank you for a merry splash, come another
day!
Brown head, gold head, little fishes’ fins—
Oh, the sky is catching bed-time upon small
star pins!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


M
M
We can
Supply
’Phones for
Private
Houses,
Farms,
Shops,
Offices,
Private and
Municipal
Exchanges,
etc.
TO INCREASE PROFITS, BUSINESS, PLEASURE
Use a “KELLOGG”
TELEPHONE.
We have Telephones for every purpose. Let. us send you prices
for a “Kellogg” “Phone Outfit.
We are the Sole Australasian Agents for the ‘'Kellogg” Switchboard
and Supply Co., of Chicago, and we are going to appoint responsible
Agents for this Company in each State. Write to us direct.
W. G. WATSON & CO. LTD.,
Suppliers of Everything Electrical,
279 Clarence St.; 426-430 Kent Street, Sydney
(Just round from the Town Hall).
Don’t Shut Out Profits
To get the Trade —and Profits —your Store must first get attention. In all ages
light has exercised a magnetic influence on the mind. Trade follows the light
don’t shut trade and profits out
By Having a Dimly-Lighted Shop
Electric —the best display Light—is at your disposal, in these
“LISTER-BRUSTON” AUTOMATIC ELECTRIC LIGHTING SETS.
The Plant is self-contained and delivered ready for work. You
simply switch on the light and the Set automatically starts itself
and generates sufficient current to light your Store, run Power
Machines, etc., at a cost of about 21 d. per hour.
I
Don’t wait until your Competitor gets his Store brilliantly lighted—talk the
matter over with us, either in person or by post TO-DAY.
AGENTS: N.S.W.—W. G. WATSON & CO., LTD., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
VIC.—SUTHERLAND & ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—CLUTIERBUCK BROS., Adelaide.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
Insist on “ Singleton s' —refuse all substitutes.
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSONS
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you’ll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
tin now. 1/6. posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
2] Wickham Streeit, Valley, Brisbane,
For Sugar-cane Cultivation.
II
mm
m
tea
-■■v.
M
M
THe “SUN QUEEN”
Straddle Cultivator.
Made in Australia and perfectly adapted to Queensland condi-
tions. Embodies all desirable adjustments. Light Draught.
Easily Managed. Comfortable Seat for Driver. Sturdily Built
to give Long Years of Service.
The iSuntop Disc Plough.
Made in one-furrow and two-furrow sizes, with 28-inch Discs
for Deep Ploughing in Sugar and Corn Country. Unequalled
for Strength and Adjustability.
Sunshine Petrol Engines
Start Instantly. Run Continuously. The Simplest and Best
i-Engine for Farm Conditions. Sizes made—3, 5, 7 and 10 h.p.
Stationary or Portable.
“Sunshine Farm Implements,*' 48 pages, is
worth having. Posted g'ratis on request.
H. V. McKAY, Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine
Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
27 George Street West, Sydney.
102 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
55 North Terrace, Adelaide.
MORE
MILES
and
Increased
RIDING
COMFORTS
when touring on
Perdriau
Special Heavy Three-Ribbed
Australian-made
Tyres.
We also make Plain Round Tread Tyres.
Send for Price List and full particulars.
Manufactured by
0
RUBBER
CO. LTD .
270 George St., Sydney.
105 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
67a Gawler Place, Adelaide.
307 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
\v.
c
IW
©
A
gUA
Mm
SAME PRICE: AS
BEFORE THE WAR.
The war has made no difference in the cost of Shi-noleum.
It is now as economical as ever.
It will keep your furniture fresh, your linoleums bright and
well preserved, and will also polish tan leather goods of all
kinds.
Pay no higher price for it now than you ever did.
Also, use no other floor polish, but Shi-noleum. It cannot spill or waste, and is
handy and good,
Refuse substitutes and get Shi-noleum at its original price, from your storekeeper.
%
■
tflLai.
SQUARE
•ll»
; MALT
w
R.Tttognt. 6 .Sorts JLIMjTEIy-
O* QRECWK*IjISTiIXEKr y.
wmm, IONBOntC
Ts(A»r,
13 3 ;
jZ^rrSViS
' . ' /./
Though the connoisseur
invariably calls for
Thorne's, you need
not necessarily be a
connoisseur to appre-
ciate it s distinctive
flavor and beneficial
effects. Any man with
a sense of discrimina-
tion can keenly enjoy
its superiority.
It is fine old Scotch
Whisky, and is truly a
gentleman's drink.
Old
Highland
Malt
“Incomparable.”


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 35.— N0. 1810.
THURSDAY, DECEM BER 3, 1914.
I’lilCß 6d.
A QUIET DAY.
Paris, Friday.—A communique, issued at midnight, states: “Yesterday was particularly quiet, and there is nothing to report.”
BRITISH TOMMY: “Bit slow ter-day, ain’t it, Alf?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
"Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. bid. ner Annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
i The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the '‘Correspondence” column
Qll contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing ■with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
Will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn- —-will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Goich, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central Neivs Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg : Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada.- —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. \V. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
Neivs Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co.. Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
?!)th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago. U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
llong Kong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.—lE. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Kates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet■ — otherwise: Boz., Id., BJ oz. to 10oz., 2}d. ;
10nz, to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, joz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1914.
MORE FAILURE IN THE TERRITORY.
A report comes to hand that the Northern
Territory has scored another downfall, inas-
much as a crowd of settlers have wholly
failed to settle, despite considerable Gov-
ernment assistance. In fact they used up
the assistance and then added a heap of debt
to their other sins. This episode doesn’t
surprise The Bulletin, despite the paper’s
boundless faith in the great Federal posses-
sion. Possibly the latest attempt at settle-
ment was meant to fail, like many previous
ones, in order that some parties who are still
at large might use the episode as a text, or
a horrible example, or a grindstone, and
might grind thereon some axe which is as
yet partly shrouded in obscurity. (This
sentence may seem of confused manufacture,
but the meaning is obvious enough.) Theie
are these plain and simple explanations of
the great Territory botch: (1) It may be
botched solely because a crowd of time-
serving legislators won’t supply it with the
one thing which they know to be needful —
the railway—their reason being that they
can’t declare the route of that line without
losing a few votes somewhere. (2) Or
because the money which might otherwise
have been available for the line has been
lent to thriftless State Premiers in order to
buy local applause and votes. The Terri-
tory hag been kept so empty that there is
very little immediate applause or votes to be
got there. (3) There may be, at the back
of it all, a deliberate purpose to perpetuate
the old lie that the Territory is a black
man’s land only. The strenuous efforts by
which such poor little attempts at develop-
ment as happen are confined to the little
patch of low-lying coastal country, which
shows the Territory at its worst, lends color
to this theory. The amount of money that
has been wasted in order to create a general
impression that this low, moist patch is the
Territory, is really marvellous. (4) The
trouble may be sheer honest muddle and
bungle. Anyhow the poo_r old Territory is
the sufferer every time.
* * * *
A plausible plea is that the through line
from Port Augusta to Darwin shouldn’t be
finished until the Territory has done some-
thing to show that it deserves a railway and
can support one. It is starting from
scratch, just as N.S.W. had to do, and if it
can’t make a fair beginning on its own
’merits (like N.S.W.). then there must be
something radically wrong with the place as
a white man’s country. The plea is wholly
bogus. When N.S.W. started it was on the
same basis as London or New York or Am-
sterdam. That is to say, it had no rail-
ways, for there were none anywhere. It
had the shameful dirt tracks which were
called roads all the world over. And it had
the same sluggish sea-carriage that every-
body had to put up with. In those days
Sydney and Jervis Bay and Port Stephens
and London were on the same level. The
cost of removing goods was enormous. As
a set-off, wages were infinitesimal. But by-
and-bye genuine roads were invented, also
trains and steamships. The enormous sums
which were saved in transit charges
went largely to provide better wages. And
then someone saw a great idea ahead and
invented congestion and centralisation.
When Sydney and Twofold Bay both had
bullock-drays and rude tracks they competed
on fairly equal terms with each other and
with Glasgow and Marseilles. When Syd-
ney had railways and Twofold Bay hadn’t,
and yet Twofold Bay had to pay railway
wages for bullock-dray facilities, it died as
a matter of course. So did Port Stephens,
once a prosperous outlet for shipping. So
did Jervis Bay. London would have done
the same with like treatment, also Antwerp.
X- * * *
The Northern Territory is invited to vin-
dicate itself while paying even more than
N.S.W. or Victorian railway wages for bub
lock-dray circumstances. It isn’t supplied
with the cheap free labor which N.S.W. en-
joyed in the days when dairymaids received
£lO a year, and it was illegal to charge more
than Bs. for felling an acre of timber. It
isn’t supplied, as the Ma State was in its in-
fancy, with convict labor which cost nothing
more than board, clothes, a shake-down and
some flogging expenses. It isn’t propped up
by British Government aid, as Sydney was in
the commencement of things. Nobody offered
it a special tariff as against the other States
in order to set its industries going, though
Westralia enjoyed a special tariff in the early
years of Federation. The completion of the
railway to the north was part of a cast-iron
bargain while that to the west was no part
of the contract. Yet the line to the west is
in violent progress, while that to the north
has been utterly neglected. Certainly it is
charged against the Territory that the two
unfinished sections of its railway, which South
Australia built in the old days, don’t pay.
But unfinished sections seldom do. Only the
other day the sumptuous Premier Holman,
of N.S.W., admitted that he has six or eight
railways on hand which don’t pay simply
because they are unfinished. Also, it is fre-
quently mentioned that the ungrateful spot
is losing population. In that respect it is in
the same category as the Western District of
Victoria and a very large section of New
South Wales, and for precisely the same
reasons.
* * * *
The Territory is the much-blamed Israelite
who is always expected to make bricks with-
out straw. It was started with a Chinese
population, and is expected to live down the
curse by its o\Vn efforts. It has no
■vote worth mentioning at the moment,
so its only claims are that it should
be developed for purposes of Australian
defence, and that it should be opened
up in order to prevent it being a bad debt
on the Commonwealth’s, back. It is in the
same position as the kid who was shoved into
the army because he wasn’t old enough to
complain that too much was expected from
him. It is pacified with a veterinary
surgeon for Governor, or a school-
inspector who has nothing to inspect. Occa-
sionally a few people are subsidised to grow
cabbages there, with a perfect knowledge that
cabbages grown under the existing conditions
might almost as well be thistles. Too much
congestion of people in cities seems to have
ruined the pioneering instinct. Andrew
Fisiiek is a sort of town Columbus, who
knows there is a new land to be discovered,
but who won’t go forth to discover it until
there is a line of mail steamers to carry
him, and an assurance that the aboriginal
vote is solidly organised in his favor so that
he can rely on it upon arrival, and that there
are railways and tramways for him to ex-
plore with.
SYDNEY’S OLD FRIEND—THE TIP.
Fok the dead there is supposed to be a
blessed resurrection lurking round the cor-
ner, and the re-opening of the Sydney garb-
age tip at Moore Park is a case in point.
Few people imagined that the tip would
ever be heard of again. It was a mountain
of d6bris, and the rats which gathered there
were said to be more numerous than the
rodents which ate Bishop Hatto, and the
thing didn’t look nice, nor did it smell nice,
and a curious generation of derelicts took to
living on the tip and doing no good to
themselves, or to posterity. A really up-to-
date city burns its debris, and turns the
combustion into electric light and electric
power, and pays a dividend out of the busi-
ness. Sydney, in its antiquated fashion,
took to the device of punting its rubbish
out to sea, when it abandoned the tip; so
that the removal of solid substance from the
land might make this dry, low-lying conti-
nent a trifle lower and flatter and drier
than before, and the shallow adjacent ocean
a little more shallow and a little less navig-
able. Also the grand Australian sport of
surf-bathing was interfered with by the
washing un of mixed debris —cats, ashes
and the like. Now, the contractor who
dropped things overboard has come to the
end of his contract; and somebody having
disremembered to make new arrangements
a startled and paralysed municipal council
goes back to the old tip inspiration. No-
body can say exactly why Sydney doesn’t
burn its garbage profitably after the manner
of many other cities. All that anybody
knows is that, after years of consideration,
this matter, like the city main-line railway,
and the rail-and-tram-and-passenger bridge
across the harbor, and the harbor subway,
and the city tube railways, and the amalga-
mation of the 40 or more municipalities, has
made no real progress. A tendency to make
no real progress hangs over Sydney like a
burst Zeppelin.
* * * *
Possibly it is because of extra-great im-
portance that things move at a snail’s pace
in the Ma capital. Or it may be by reason
of special age and venerableness, and the
dignity that comes of grey hairs. The
attachment to ancient ways may arise from
the same causes. It is possible, in Sydney,
to talk over a thing longer without doing it,
and to appoint more Royal Commissions
to find out if some perfectly ordinary job is
possible, than is the case in any other place
of size barring Damascus. During the long
happy years while the possibility of bridg-
ing Sydney harbor was under discussion
some casual people built the Brooklyn
bridge (5862 ft. long) ; another bridge in
the same locality (5989 ft. long) ; the East
River bridge (7264 ft. long) ; another East
River bi'idge of two floors (6Sssft. long) ;
the Forth bridge (nearly two miles long) ;
the Tay bridge (10,612 ft. long) ; the bridge
over the St. Lawrence (two miles long) ;
and other works of size that are too numer-
ous to mention. And during the years
while the construction of a tunnel under
Sydney harbor was in contemplation the
Alps have been pierced in so many places
that quite a cold draught blows through
into Italy; and the Andes have been under-
mined and nearly every river that has a
fair-sized white population on its batiks has
had a subway made beneath its feet. The
idea of carrying the main line of railway-
across Sydney was mooted when Henry
Parkes was still a young man with incipi-
ent whiskers, and Parkes died, at a great
age and heavily disguised in hair, so long
ago that he is practically forgotten. Yet
the railway still stops at a dead end out-
side the city of Sydney, though almost
every other town of any account in the
world has carried at least one main line
right through as a matter of course. Tube
railways, as a means of relieving the pres-
sure of traffic on the streets are a fairly
ancient device, and Sydney, with its narrow
and devious ways, is in much need of some
relief of the sort. Yet though it has dis-
cussed the matter at great length it hasn’t
tubed worth a cent. It is apparently no
nearer the establishment of a Greater Syd-
ney, or the setting up of a municipal ferry
service than it was when the first convict
laid the first brick of the first gaol. The
long-discussed reconstruction of the tangled
highways has resulted in a speck of patch-
work, and nothing beyond that. And now
the good old tip has been re-opened, because
the Ma metropolis is paralysed at the sight
of its broken meat-tin and its cabbage-stalk.
When Cain dwelt in Nod, where he married
the monkey and set up housekeeping, he
presumably threw the bones and crusts out
of the front door into Mesopotamia, So the
tin habit is very old and has precedent
behind it.
* * * *
No one who is acquainted with N.S.W.
conditions imagines that the.; city railway
and the harbor bridge wouldn’t pay. The
efficiency of the railways around Sydney is
greatly reduced and the congestion . enor-
mously increased by the fact that every
train which comes into either the Redfern
or the North Sydney terminus has to back
out again tail first, to the great inconveni-
ence of traffic. And it is necessary to main-
tain many extra suburban trains through
the _ suburban service being cut into two
sections, instead of the local vehicle having
a clear run from Parramatta to Hornsby.
The tube railway would pay, unless Sydney
is for some unexplained reason a 'freak
among cities. The establishment of a
Greater Sydney ought to be a source of pro-
fit. provided no extraordinary arithmetician
arises and shpws clearly that 40 mayors
and town clerks and town halls and sets of
aldermen, and 40 separate debts cost less
than one of each. And only a blazing
optimist can believe that a garbage tip is
a paying investment, or a punt which takes
out refuse and uses it to fill up the blue
sea; though any number of cities are known
to make destructors pay by turning the
ddbris into fuel. It is Sydney’s calamity
that it is so important that it has to think
for 35i years over matters which other
places decide off-hand. Its bridge, for in-
stance, is so much more hotable than a
mere bridge over the Forth or Tay or East
River that it mustn’t be rushed. And by
reason of haying so many hundred or
thousand municipal and other legislators
there are too many valuable opinions about
everything, and too many divided interests.
When something is obviously wanted in
Sydney, and has been obviously wanted for
50 years, that doesn’t imply that the want
should be supplied—only that ten men
should get a job to inquire into the subject
for the tenth time, and addle the egg of
the same old evidence for ten months, and
then publish the result in a volume of
ten hundred or more pages. By extra-
ordinary fortune Sydney acquired a moder-
ately good water supply, and something not
absolutely impossible in the way of a tram-
way system. There its luck ended. As re-
gards other matters it is still mostly in the
Moore Park tip stage of development.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Whole Horrible Homily of Holman.
Premier Holman of N.S.W. went to Vic-
toria to buzz round in the Victorian State
elections, and in the course of his buzzing
he offered a candid explanation of his
Government’s extraordinary loan expendi-
ture. Previous Governments, he said, had so
starved the Public Works Department that
a lavish and special outlay was required to
bring matters. up .to date. The plausible,
side-long barrister should really capture one
explanation, and stick to it. When his gang
came into office its plea was that the
scattersome louts of the Old Brigade had
been spending too much money—not too
little—on public works. So the gang
promised reduction of borrowing, and gave
its solemn Kaiser’s oath that it would only
use loan supplies for works which could be
relied upon to pay full interest and sinking
fund. Now, presumably, Holman wasn’t
such an ignorant and unlettered Dogberry
as to think the previous crowd was spending
too much money when it was really spend-
ing too little. He was an old Parlia-
mentarian, and was supposed to have a
shred of information about him. His crowd
came into power, with all its beautiful
assurances re the needless lavishness of its
predecessors, in October, 1910. It put up a
Minister for Works whose great qualifica-
tion, it was alleged, was that he could, and
would, say “No” to the member who wanted
to raid the Treasury for the benefit of the
local culvert and the obscure box-drain,
This combination bogged in according to its
alleged principles, and reduced the autho-
rised loan expenditure for its first financial
year (to June, 1911) from £4,853,000 to
£3,868,970. So for quite a long time
Holman and co. (in office) had no more
idea than Holman and co. (out of office)
that Public Works had been starved, and
that an heroic shovelling out of loans
was required to save the State from
destruction. But a general election
was looming, and honesty and economy
were hard virtues to practise, and the
easiest way for a loose and merry crowd of
incompetents to follow, in order to buy tem-
porary popularity and temporary votes, was
to provide a huge proportion of its sup-
porters with well-paid jobs out of other
people’s money. So the loan votes rushed
up to £6,375,000, and to over £7,000,000, and
to £8,500,000; and then they started gaily
on the road to £10,000,000. Now, the boom
being on the down-grade, these matters call
for explanation, and the N.S.W. State Pre-
mier has, in effect, offered a four-barrelled
explanation, as follows: Barrel I.: Holman
and co., when in Opposition, were so dunder-
headed that they didn’t recognise that the
loan votes were being starved; in fact, they
thought their opponents were exceeding the
speed limit. Barrel II.: During their first
nine months of office Holman and co., being
thick and impossible in the skull, failed
to recognise that the loan votes had been
unduly cut down, and they cut them down
still further. Barrel 111. : The whole party
was such an ass that it put reduction of
lOU on its programme, being quite unable
to recognise that the essential thing was
stupendous increase of lOU. Barrel IV.:
The whole caboodle is such a complicated
muddler that it still keeps restriction of bor-
rowing on the programme, while increasing
the thing about 300 per cent. That is
Holman’s whole homily put into the least
possible space.
Good Reasons for Advocating the Tote.
It is a poor Judge who gives too many
reasons for his judgment, and that is the
position in which the N.S.W. State Premier
stands as regards the totalisator. Holman
is against the instrument. Not content with
that, he is full of dark-brown scoff against
those who are in favor of it. In
the first place, he says that N.S.W.
has contrived to struggle through 60 years of
constitutional government without the tote.
Presumably he means that herein is proof
of the needlessness of the honest betting in-
strument. Yet if anybody told this plausible
legal Tory that the State got on for 60
years and more without Holman, or Dacey-
ville, or Calicoville, or compulsory purchases
of wheat, or an expenditure of £8,500,000 of
loan money in one year, he would be the
first to rise up and say that he was no slave
to hidebound precedent, nor a dweller in the
ancient rut, and that he believed in movement
and progress. The spectacle of Holman
advancing the theory that a thing can’t be
needed now because people didn’t have it
before is a serious political relapse. Again,
Holman pleaded to this effect (daily paper
report) :
We are now suddenly told that in the midst of
war, with problems of unemployment, of finance —-
which the introduction will do nothing to help no
matter what is asserted to the contrary—and of main-
taining our national existence, the Government is to
interrupt its consideration of these problems to make
this hitherto forgotten subject the corner stone of
its legislative programme.
This may be cited as an example of the art
of putting much bosh and delusion in little
space. Holman isn’t “in the midst of war” ;
he probably never saw a shot fired in his life
save at a bird or a rabbit. His State isn’t
in the midst of war, though it is supplying
a few men for foreign service. He isn’t
running any war. He has no more responsi-
bility for “maintaining our national exist-
ence” than the Mayor of Hexham or the
churchwarden of St. Luke’s. He has no
unusual financial problems to solve, so far,
except those of his own making, the British
and Australian Governments having found
the usual loan for him. He isn’t bound to fix
his gigantic and bulging, intellect on military
questions. Nobody asked him to make the
tote a “corner stone”; it was merely sug-
gested as a brick or an item. It is obvious
to the humblest schoolboy that a gambling
machine which paid a solid proportion of its
earnings to the Treasury would help the
finances (on a rough estimate Holman
would get £200,000 a year out of it) unless it
is implied that the N.S.W. finances are past
all help, like Confederate paper money or the
bad debts of the old kingdom of Poland. And
to describe the tote —a matter which has been
before the State Legislature every year for a
long while back, and which has recently been
supported by a large majority in the Labor
caucus—as a “hitherto forgotten subject” is
really picturesque assurance. On one point,
however, The Bulletin agrees with Hol-
man
The totalisator.... is rot now an urgent question
except to people who have good reasons for so
regarding it.
The Bulletin admits freely that it has good
reasons. It wants to replace a very useless
and corrupt form of Private Enterprise (the
bookmaker) with a semi-Socialistic enter-
prise (the tote). It wants to see a handsome
addition made to the revenue out of tote
percentages. It wants the public to get a fair
run for its money (incidentally it wants a
fair run itself) when it backs a horse. But
neither The Bulletin nor any other
advocate of the tote has been bribed
to support it,- for a mere machine
—and a non-e’xistent machine at that
—can hardly distribute bribes. On the
other hand, the live bookmaker, who is in
full blast and existence, and very active, can
distribute bribes if he feels that way. Hav-
ing dealt with the subject of the people who
have good reasons for supporting the tote,
something might possibly be said now about
those who have very bad reasons for support-
ing the bookie,
4 .
The “Scrap of Paper.”
It is time the pretty story strung on the
“scrap of paper” phrase was dropped. It
turned up again in one of the dailies the
other morning in this shape:—
England might have chosen to keep out of this war
by turning a deaf car to the appeal of the King of


Extraordinary Announcement to Agents.
The Christmas Edition
of THE BULLETIN, 1914,
will be Published on
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1914.
EXTRA AND SPECIAL ISSUE.
The Ordinary Issue of The Bulletin
will be published on the usual date.
tbe Belgians, whose country she had solemnly under-
taken to Droteet • but England had as Foreign Secre-
tary a man who would not stoop to such dishonor and
sh7ha“ as Prime Minister a man who scorned the
German bribe and flung back his “infamous proposal
in the Emperor’s face.
Britain had to be in this war ; and the world
knows it. The absorption of Belgium by
Germany, or the defeat of France involving
the cession to the Fatherland of a narrow
strip of coast from the Belgian frontier to
Calais,” would mean the finish of Britain
as a sea power. Enriched by indemnities
and the possession of the French fleet, and
with an ideal line of coast to strike from
Germany would soon have had the United
Kingdom at its mercy. Britain is in this
war for everything that a nation holds dear.
It could no more have “turned a deaf ear
to the appeal of the King of the Belgians
than a private citizen could remain supine on
learning that his home was to be burgled
shortly, and his wife and daughters outraged
and killed. Britain, as Kitchener and the
rest of the matter-of-fact authorities are in-
sisting, is fighting for its existence. To go
on representing it as spurred on only by
good-nature or altruism is plain cant. In one
way, it is a great pity that altruism isn’t
the spur; for, in that case, it wouldn’t
matter so much if we lost. As it is, we can’t
afford to lose, no matter what price in life
and money we have to pay.
Utterly Incomprehensible Finance.
Dear Bulletin, —More discussion than is
agreeable has arisen concerning the
£18,000,000 which the Australian Government
is to lend to the prodigal States. The Aus-
tralian Government gets £18,000,000 by way
of loan from the British Government, which
is straining a point, amid all its troubles, to
help its offspring. The inference is that,
times being bad, it would be mighty hard
for this country to raise its usual batch of
new loans, or even to renew the old loans,
without Bull’s assistance. But it seems to
have transpired, in an obscure sort of way,
that Bull is really lending Australia
£18,000,000 for war purposes—not to enable
Holman and Scaddan to whoop up their
career of extravagance and wild cat. Possi-
bly Bull thought that if he financed Aus-
tralia’s share of the war expenses—which is
really not half what Australia’s share
would be supnosing it exerted itself at
the same rate per head as Britain is doing—
some effort might be made to pay for the
drain and the culvert out of revenue while
the stress endures. Somehow the military loan
which the British Government is making to
Australia, and the drain and culvert loan
which Australia is making to the State Gov-
ernments, have got mixed—or have got into
the unfortunate habit of looking mixed. Prime
Minister Fisher says that the £18,000,000
he is lending to the States for railways and
bridges are not the £18,000,000 that are
lent to him by Britain for campaign
charges. No one who had any acquaint-
ance with finance supposed they would
be the same identical tons of sovereigns.
The money which Britain lends us will
remain in London, and be used, partly
for fighting purposes, but mostlv to pay
for the extraordinary heap of imports which
this country buys in order to squash local
industry. In other words, the balance of
exchange—which is the amount our low-
tariff country has to pay in order to square
the account for the imports which prevent
local industry—will quietly eat it up. A
similar amount which would otherwise have
gone to England—not the same millions, but
an equal number of them —will be lent to the
State Premiers, so that they may invent
public works jobs for the people who have no
honest employment by reason of the imports
which, under the low-tariff policy, the first-
named set of borrowed millions have paid for.
The Fisher Ministry hasn’t misapnropri-
ated John Bull’s battle loan of £18,000.000,
by lending £18,000,000 to the State Premiers
so that they may spend the money on what
are practically relief works. It has simply
invested the money until it is wanted —in-
vested it in the lOU’s of Holman and Scad-
dan and their kind. There will be a good,
honest book record to show that the amount
is carefully invested. And if the war, which
has only just started, lasts a long time; and
Bull is too busy to advance any more money
to his prodigal children; and State loans can
no longer be floated; and the Australian Gov-
ernment hasn’t the courage to double or
treble the tariff so as to shut out the imports
which are eating up this country’s cash; and,
in consequence, the lOU’s of Holman and
Scaddan became valueless, as they appar-
ently might have been already if the
£18,000,000 war loan guaranteed by Bull
had not been available —anyhow this sentence
has become so long that it is better to start
afresh. The position is that the Australian
Government has already lent the States a
great deal of money. The States have to
keep borrowing money in order to pay for
imports, the revenue tariff on which keeps
the Australian Government going, so that it
can pay the regular annual subsidy to the
States. The Australian Government now
raises a war-loan from Bull, and lends
money to the States so that they may buy
the imported goods, the revenue tariff on
which keeps the Australian Government
going. The money which the States receive is
spent on digging holes, or tunnels, or some-
thing, because, by reason of the mass of
imports which are paid for with borrowed
money, plain bootmaking or tailoring jobs
are scarce. The Australian Government
doesn’t misappropriate Bull’s war loan, but
only deposits it, until it is wanted, in good
State securities —with a full knowledge that
the securities may be worth very little unless
the creditor can hold up the debtor with fur-
ther advances. The low-tariff and importing
and borrowing situation has now become so
complicated that I beg to retire with a
buzzing noise in the head, and subscribe
myself.—Yours faithfully, Henry Horse-
collar.
The Spy as a Business Proposition.
The press, both British and Australian,
shows a tendency to get the jumps over the
German-spy question. The dailies have just
finished reviewing in an awed fashion the
revelations of Karl Graves. They accept
him as a genuine menace, and have the delu-
sion apparently that he is still about.
Graves was, of course, Body, alias Charles
Inglis, who was shot in the Tower a little
while ago. The type to which he belonged
strikes one as being almost as futile as the
information he collected. Like certain in-
offensive curates, the day-dreams of his sort
appear to be of deeds of valor and
athleticism. Graves relates that when in
Australia he “rode brumbies across the wild
tracks.” It sounds sensational to European
ears, but to people who know brumbies it is
ridiculous. In the same way, the melo-
dramatic title of his book, “Secrets of the
German War Office,” sounds like the spy
but not like the truth. One hardly pictures
intolerant Prussian junkers embarking on
confidences with a person of Graves’s
status. The same remark applies to his
alleged association with representatives of
Britain, France and Russia, and also to his
alleged presence at a conference of the
Powers in the Taunus forest. In his craze
for melodrama he. flies to make-up. He is
by turns doctor, tourist, botanist and a dozen
other things. He informs his Government
of the movements of British warships in and
out of the Forth (information obtainable in
the Shipping Lists) ; that the Forth bridge
if blown up would block the channel; that
certain officials at Constantinople are being
bribed by Germany and others by Britain ;
of details in the personal appearance of
Admirals Fisher and Jellicoe ; and, as a
coup de maitre, he supplies alleged plans of
the Naval base at Singapore which he has
obtained—from native clerks! For such
rubbish he once received as much as £l5OO.
His tale is a justification of Britain’s theory
that spies are a waste of money.
Labouciiere said long ago that Britain
would have no truck with them because
they were “a bad business proposition”;
No means existed of checking the accuracy
or value of their information or of tracing
the money paid. Moreover, much of their
information would be more likely to be
dangerous than useful. The labors of
Graves and his friends have given Britain
no cause to alter its theory. On the con-
trary, a Home Office communication issued
on October 9 last said that “In spite of
enormous efforts and lavish expenditure of
money by the enemy, little valuable infor-
mation passed into their hands.” And most
of what did pass into their hands —into the
hands of the Emden, for instance —could
have been gathered by anybody who had the
run of the newspapers and the wharves.
For the rest —and there probably isn’t much
rest —it came not from professional spies
who wormed out the dreadful secrets, but
from the amateur who came upon them in
the ordinary way of business or social inter-
course.
♦
How Collier Got into Holts with Morby
and Hornblower.
The projected Sydney Labor daily gets a poor
advertisement through the methods of some
of the people in office. The Labor party
represents such a majority of the population
that it easily controls the Australian Par-
liament and the N.S.W. State Legislature.
It wouldn’t admit on any account that its
leaders are so wooden-headed that they can’t
turn out a journal which is able to stand on
its own merits, as well as the S. M. Herald
or Sydney Telegraph. A daily like the
Herald or Telegraph, even when it has no
compulsory support from the Tory party,
and even when it is only one of a multitude
of papers which compete for the support of
the Tory minority, is a profitable affair. A
solitary Labor daily, with the support of
the majority of the community all to itself,
should boom beyond the dreams of avarice—
unless it" is badly managed. It should
be one of the best investments in
the country. Therefore some surprise
arose in business circles when it trans-
pired that unionists were being bull-
dozed by threats of disqualification and ex-
pulsion, into contributing to the Labor
organ. A N.S.W. Judge decided that no
unionist could be cast into outer darkness
for failing to supnly cash towards the publi-
cation. Nevertheless a man by the name of
Collier, who hadn’t paid up for the aid of
the promised but as yet unpublished docu-
ment, was pushed to the door of the Sydney
Trades Hall by Morby and Hornblower, on
the pretence _ that he Avas not a financial
member. This caused excitement in legal
circles. A stipendiary beak fined Morby
and Hornblower £2 each, with costs. Now
surely, the Labor party, which represents
the great bulk of the community, can
run a paper which doesn’t require
to be propped up by the wild conduct
of Morby and Hornblower in throwing out
Collier. Even the Melbourne Argus, in
its most Tory moments, never claimed the
right to throw out Collier because he failed
to pay up, and never in all its life did it
sool Morby and Hornblower on to him. As
a certain French lady remarked on the guillo-
tine, strange things are done in the name of
liberty.
»
The War, the Censorship and the
National Character.
Viewing the matter entirely from the
national standpoint, English papers begin to
rebel against the lines on which the censor-
ship is conducted in Britain. Thus a recent
cable reported The Times as saying in a
leading article: —
The Government has exercised control over the press
with singular incompetence and great lack of judg-
ment. If wrong impressions are prevalent, the critics
ought to address the Government, and not the news-
papers.
To a great extent the complaint holds good
in Australia, where the censorship instruc-
tions at least gave the direction to news-
paper report and comment, and guided them
in such a way as to be largely responsible
for the poor recruiting returns of late. In
the beginning, when the horrors of Liege,
Namur and Mons were news-
paper readers learned that the Kaiser’s
legions were being overthrown on all sides.
The Germans reached Maubeuge, took Cam-
brai, and forged ahead on a wide front,
through Landrecies and Peronne, to the
neighborhood of La Fere. The Australian,
and to a rather less extent the English, press
, ntinued to exult, though by this time the
horrified Parisians could almost hear the
smashing of the invaders’ beer-bottles. But
the public had begun to distrust their
papers. People looked at their maps, found
that the Germans were moving on Paris at
the rate of about 15 miles a day, and de-
cided that the position was dangerous.
Once this was realised —once, in short, the
censored papers were contemned —the
recruiting returns went up with a bound.
Men who, while they hoorayed exultantly,
would have spurned the idea of leaving good
jobs and comfortable homes, now set their
teeth and joined the colors. Then came
the German retreat, misdescribed variously
as “the Rout” and “the Headlong Flight.”
The blither about the imminent capitulation
of the Germans grew worse than ever, and
recruiting waned proportionately. In the
last month, when things certainly have
looked better and better for the Allies, the
braggadocio of a section of the press has
grown deafening; and the natural conse-
quence has been that likely soldiers have once
more become satisfied that their services
are not needed by the Empire. Simul-
taneously the papers, barred from much
serious comment, have been allowed —it is
hardly too much to say encouraged—to use
the war as a sort of substitute for the Hor-
rible Tragedy which is now as a handful of
brown dust in the mouth of the sensation-
seeker. With all the fulsome relish which
they used to evince while affixing the cross
to indicate where the remains had been
found, yellow journals are now fastening on
every revolting detail that they can rake
from the fighting line. Among their star
items are accounts of the burning of vast
piles of dead bodies; of trenches feet deep
in ice-cold water, and rendered insanitary
by putrefying corpses; of the horrors of
winter campaigning; and so on. One effect
is to sell the papers, since the world loves
the morbid. Another is to decide those who
have no particular dread of death, but who
like comfort, that they will not participate
in such misery unless there is need of them ;
and the general trend of the “news” is to
indicate that there is no need of them.
Censorship, or the press which has taken its
direction from the censorship, seems to The
Bulletin to have entirely misconceived the
spirit of the race —the finest national asset
in war. Not easy success, but diffi-
culty and danger, bring out its greatest
qualities. Its history for a thousand years
shows that national peril is the best stif-
fener and the most priceless recruiting
agent. If the authorities want a big in-
crease of expeditionaries the recipe, then, is
simple. Their censors must direct the press to
tell the truth, that this war is no cake-walk
for the Allies, and that there have been no
German “routs” or “headlong flights,” nor
is it likely that there will be for many a dav
to come. And they must also see to it that
the field of glory is not made to appear a
sort of charnel house in an iced swamp.
A Great Exemplar.
The Primate of Australia paid this tribute
to Lord Roberts :
It was not only the soldier, but the man in the
soldier, that made him what we thank God for. As
Lord Kitchener truly said, we thank God not only
for his achievements as a soldier, but for his charac-
ter as a man. There it stands —a noble ideal of a
true soldier and a true man.
In view of the ocean of such well-merited
testimony, it is interesting to recall that for
the past 30 years Roberts was the Empire’s
strongest advocate of the State control of
venereal disease. He was notoriously hostile
to Gladstone’s attitude towards the O.D.
Acts, though his position in the Service de-
barred him from being publicly articulate.
He favored what the wowser calls the
“State regulation of vice.” at any rate, for
the army. It was with his connivance that
commanding officers began to force the men
under them to adopt those precautionary
measures against disease which have been so
successful on many shins in the British navy.
Only the other day he introduced a Bill in the
House of Lords which was in effect a C.D.
Act brought up to date. During the whole
of his struggles to eradicate venereal disease
from the army the people who hindered him
most were those who are now praising him
loudest. His Bill was thrown out of the
Lords, and prevented from reaching the
Commons, largely owing to the efforts of the
Archbishops and Bishops. When he was a
soldier the lesser clergy got in his way as
determinedly as the big clerical guns did
when he turned legislator. So he died with
very little done, and the army, as a result,
less effective by 11 per cent., according to
figures supplied by Prime Minister Asquith
last month, than it might have been. The
cry of the ultra-holy has hitherto been that
the control of venereal disease is irreligious
and materialistic; that syphilis is Heaven’s
punishment on the vicious, and should be
unchecked accordingly; and that opponents
of this view are atheists and scoffers. If,
as is the case, the State control of venereal
disease was the aim of an ideal man, it
should be good enough even for the saintliest
of our politicians. It is to be hoped that,
after the Primate-Archbishop’s words, there
will be no more indirect attacks on Lord
Roberts’s character by persons who have
been accustomed to oppose, allegedly on ethi-
cal grounds, such reforms as the notification
and segregation of syphilitics.
Dear Bulletin, —The struggle to invent
work is the pathetic side-show of a borrow-
ing and importing community. It has been
discovered that a certain wall around the
vegetable garden of Long Bay (N.S.W.)
prison can be built by confinees for £BOO.
The same wall, if built by free bricklaying
union labor can be spread out to a cost of
over £2600. If it were built by priests and
archdeacons and cardinals and barristers and
poets and artists the bill might be extended
to £40,000. It is claimed that the cost should
be spread to £2600 in order to provide work,
while the confinees at Long Bay moulder in
idleness. Unless the rampart is made to
cost £lBOO more than is necessary, poverty,
it is alleged, will supervene, and lack of jobs
will become frequent in the land. It is a
solemn business that the great and proud
Ma State should have got down so low that
it has to clamor to be supplied with £lBOO
worth of needless remuneration for building
an unproductive fortification round a quod
or jug, the same to be paid for out of foreign
loans. And it is especially solemn that the
Ma State should demand that its convicted
brother —who, in many cases, only differs
from the unconvicted brother inasmuch as he
has been found ,out —should rot or go loony
in idleness in order to supply this £lBOO
worth of superfluous remuneration paid for
out of loans. New South Wales is borrow-
ing abroad abodt £BOO.OOO a month to pay
for excess of imported goods—the excess
of goods which it imports because it wants
to combine high-priced local labor with cheap
labor foreign products. That means over
£30,000 per working day, or about £4OOO every
working hour, needlessly scattered to pay
for foreign cheap-labor goods which come
into N.S.W. solely by reason of the craze
for sinking the fiscal issue. The building of
the gaol wall at Long Bay represents just
about 30 minutes’ work —going by the rate
at which N.S.W. sacrifices work in its crav-
ing for cheap imports. Is 30 minutes’ work
worth all the fuss? —Yours, Solomon Mala-
prop.
•
National affairs have so dwarfed those of
the State that the most striking feature of
the recent Vic. elections was that hardly
anybody seemed to know there was any elec-
tion. Premier Peacock rushed around
screaming and assisting everyone in general,
but nobody grew at all excited. Even the
sight of John Weary in violent motion
failed to attract more than a passing word.
Agriculture Minister Hutchinson and Ricli
Landlord J. Dry Brown were practically
the Government for the time being, till, in
desperation, even Brown went off to the
bush to try to persuade the drought-stricken
farmers that something important was hap-
pening. It was a striking commentary on
the futility of the present system of govern-
ment and an argument for unification and
reconstruction at the earliest possible
moment.
+.
On many occasions, in the past, this paper
has preached a sermon on the proposition
that a country which exhausts its credit in
time of peace is liable to have very little
of the substance left in time of war. In
war-time there are many big applicants for
money, and the prices offered for it are
high, and the voice of a small applicant is
not easily heard, and the tendency to lend
cash to a country which has very few
defences of its own becomes strictly limited.
The old sermon is apparently coming home
to roost. The war is only four months old,
and Australia’s share in it, so far as ex-
pense goes, has, up till now. been infini-
tesimal. Yet already £18,000.000 have been
borrowed from the British Government for
war purposes, and as the money isn’t wanted
immediately for war purposes it is appar-
ently being lent in a temporary fashion to
the States in order to keep the boom going.
And something is said about a scheme for
borrowing £10,000,000 from the banks on
Commonwealth security—just a trifle to go
on with. It may happen that these two
joyous financial transactions have exhausted
the possibilities of the case till the war is
finished. Certainly neither Bull nor the
Australian banks can hand out £28,000,000
very often in these exciting times, and
when their lending capacity is exhausted
it will be necessary to do something in the
way of economy and self-reliance, or to
compromise with the public creditor/ or
otherwise break fresh ground. A feeling
pervades the sober section of the commu-
nity that what may prove to be the last
of credit is being used up too
fast.
A Dirge of Joy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Oh! this is a joyful dirge, my friends, and
this is a hymn of praise;
And this is a clamor of Victory, and a shout
of the Ancient Days.
It isn’t a Yelp of the Battlefield ; nor a Howl
of the Bounding Wave,
But an ode to the Things that the War has
Killed, and a lay of the Festive Grave.
’Tis a triolet of the Tomb, you bet, and a
whoop because of Despair,
And it’s sung as I stand on my hoary head
and wave my legs in the air!
Oh ! I dance on the grave of the Suffragette
(I dance on my hands and dome),
And the Sanctity-of-the-Marriage-Tie and
the Breaking-Up-of-the-Home.
And I dance on the grave of the weird
White-Slave that died when the war
began;
And Better-Protection-for-Women-and-Girls,
and Men-Made-Laws-for-Man !
Oh, I dance on the Liberal Lady’s grave and
the Labor Woman’s, too ;
And the grave of the Female lie and shriek,
with a dance that is wild and new.
And my only regret in this song-a-let as I
dance over dale and hill,
Is the Yarn-of-the-Wife and the Tale-of-the-
Girl that never a war can kill.
Oh, I dance on the grave of the want-ter-
write, and I dance on the Tomb of the
Sneer,
And poet-and-author-and-critic, • too, who
used to be great round here.
But “Old Mother Often” (“Mother of Ten”)
and “Parent Escaped from the Grave,”
And “Pro Bono Publico” live again, as “Vic-
tis,” or “Honor the Brave.”
Oh, lightly I danced upon politics’ grave
where the Friend of the Candidate slept,
And over the Female Political Devil, oh
wildly I bounded and leapt.
But this dance shall be nothing compared
with the dance of the spook of the writer
who sings
On the grave of the bard and the Tele-
graph’s grave, out there at the Finish
of Things!
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


Hotel Steyne,
Manly Beach, K.S.W.
Facing the Pacific Ocean.
THE BRIGHTON OF AUSTRALIA.
SURF-BATHING RIGHT IN
FRONT OF THE HOTEL.
Excellent Golf Links in Close Proximity.
Hot Salt Water Baths Adjacent.
TERMS—From \\/6 Day;
£3 10s. Week.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS
LOTION.
QUICKLY REMOVES
SKIN ERUPTIONS . . .
ENSURING A
CLEAR COMPLEXION
The slightest Hash, faintest
Spot, irritable Pimples, dis-
figuring Blotches, obstinate
Eczema disappear by applying
SULPHOLINE
Which renders the skin spot-
less, soft, clear, supple, com-
fortable.
BOTTLES 1/- and 2/9.
For 42 Year!
SULPHOLINE
Has been the Remedy for
ERUPTIONS
PIMPLES
REDNESS
PSORIASIS
ROUGHNESS,
RASHES
ECZEMA
SCURF
ACNE
BLOTCHES
SPOTS
ROSEA
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Sirin Specialists—
J. PEPPER & CO , LTD., Bedford Laboratories, LONDON, S.E., Eng.,
and can be obtained direct from them by post or from
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removes the effect of Sunscorch.
Hotel Stewart
SAN ’ FRANCISCO
A high-class hotel very favorably known to
travellers from Australia, New Zealand and
the Orient. Headquarters for Britishers in
San Francisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. Third annex just completed. 350
rooms. 250 connecting bathrooms. Every
comfort and convenience. Beautifully fur-
nished. Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping, theatre
and cafe districts. On street car lines to all
parts of city. Our omnibuses with uni-
formed attendants meet all steamers and
trains. Travellers are urged to make reser-
vations by letter or wireless to be assured
the most satisfactory accommodation. Cable
address, “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals, 16s. a day and up.
Rooms without Meals, Bs. a day and up.
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
Proprietors.
The War: Annals of a Quiet Week.
The week just passed has been about the
dullest since the .war started.. People begin
to realise that even a world-struggle may
become uninteresting to read about if it only
lasts long enough. It is like the fourth
month of the Day of Judgment. The
Russian still holds the captured Austrian
city of Lemberg; he is slowly battering
Przemysl to dust, and has begun to pound
hard on Cracow. • Also, he has formally
annexed Bukowina, a province which is
Austrian Crown land and an important
source of the Emperor’s income. There-
fore the Emneror is likely to go short this
winter. Further north the Russian and Ger-
man rage with appalling slaughter, but
though the armies of William the Blot
are not doing well no other city of size has
been lost by them of late. On the west both
parties seem to he settling down for the
winter in a vast series of entrenchments —■
only interrupting- their repose with a few
battles each week. The battles rave back
and forth on much the same battlefield. The
Kaiser threatens to get level for the Russian
annexation of Bukowina by the formal
annexation of Belgium, but as the Bear
owns all Bukowina and the Kaiser doesn’t
o\vn all Belgium there is a considerable dif-
ference. The Kaiser lately approached
.Japan with an offer of favorable terms if it
would change sides, and attack Russia in
the rear, but the only reply was a snort. By
this time he has made advances for a
separate peace to all the Allies save Britain
and Servia, and has urged Roumania,
Afghanistan and Abyssinia to join him, and
the whole result has been failure. In truth,
despite the huge light; he is putting up, the
position of the world’s Boss Murderer grows
very dismal. All the plans set forth in all
the German military books were to the effect
that the Berlin Empire was to get in early,
to put overwhelming numbers in the field,
and by running like an ostrich to break the
enemy’s armies before they were ready and
take his big cities before he was awake in
the morning. The backwash from Paris
and Calais and Lille and Verdun and Nancy
and Warsaw and Lodz, and the failure to
get in sight of London forced these rushing
marauders back on the defensive, which is a
dispiriting situation for a proud race which
published so many war-books and hardly
mentioned that there was such a thing as the
defensive. Incidentally, the one squalid
ally which Germany raked -in seems even
more futile than was expected. Turkey’s
army, which was not very good at best, was
sorely battered during the recent Balkan
war. A good part of what remains is hang-
ing round’ Constantinople, lest in its absence
the Bulgarians should rush the wonderful
city. The remainder, struggling along half-
heartedly amid divided counsels, is in two
sections. One seems to find the Caucasus
too cold, while the other finds the Egyptian
border too hot. And the spiritual bubble of
the alleged Caliph has apparently burst. The
Moslem world has been invited to rise and
bUry the Sultan’s enemies like one man.
In effect, it has bidden Mohammed V. to
get his hair cut.
♦
When, soon after the war began, the
various State Governments airily proceeded
to regulate food prices, they didn’t know
the size of the jimjam they were tackling.
Ma first fixed the price of wheat at 4s. 2d.,
Victoria at 4s. 9d., and other States as they
thought fit; and though in some cases'the
figure has since been raised, the law is a
farce, except in N. S. Wales. In Victoria,
for instance, wheat is practically unpur-
chasable. except sub rosa and at" a much
higher price than that legally fixed. When '
passing its Act that State gave its Govern-
ment no power to seize and sell grain ; it
merely provided trifling penalties for those
holders who were fools enough to ; bluntly
refuse to sell, action to be taken only if the
Attorney-General thought fit. But even
where power has been given to seize and
sell wheat, whether at 4s. 9d. or ss. 9d. or
15s. 9d., the question of “injurious differ-
entiation” comes in; and the farmer who
cuts his crop for wheat asks why he should
be put in a worse position than the luckier
man who, getting a heavier crop, decided
to cut his lot for hay—why, in short, the
price of what he has to sell is regulated
while for the things he has to buy people
can charge him any old price they like. And
up _to now nobody has given an answer
which comes anywhere near satisfying him.
“Bloggs” : The German passion for cement
is amazing. In the last few weeks German-
owned cement has been found at N. Ilamp-
stead, near London ; at Edinburgh : on both
sides of the Bristol Channel; and on the
heights overlooking Also, near St.
Quentin ; at Chateau Thierry, which is only
a few miles from Paris; and in several parts
of the Argonne Forest. And it now trans-
pires that the manager of the Portland
CN.S.W.) Cement Works is a subject of the
Kaiser. It goes to confirm a theory I
have always held, that Deeming was a
German.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK'.
Hek Majesty's “The Mikado ”
Criterion ' “Seven Keys to Dah-lpate”
Palace “A Romance in Ireland”
Adelpiii “The Christian ”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Picture Rlock Theatres Moving Pictures
MELROIJIINE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s ... “The Girl in the Taxi”
Royal “The Yellow Ticket”
Kino’s . “Sweet Nell of Old Drurv”
Princess’s . . “The Girl Who Took the Wrong Turning”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville ( o.
Fuller-lireunan Vaudeville
Olyiipia Si Nat ion a i Hoyt’s Pictures
Esplanade The Green Dandies
Athenaeum Hall Melb. Repertory Theatre
Snowden Star pictures
«.
“H.M.S. Pinafore,” at present moored at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, is due to weigh
anchor on Friday night. The most inter-
esting feature of the present production is
the Josephine of Gladys*Moncrieff, a dark-
haired Bananalander who has been coached
by the J.C.W. people for the last year or
so. Considering her lack of stage experi-
ence, her performance 'is distinctly good.
Her well-trained voice climbs easily to the
roof of song, the astonishing top-note comes
clear and true, and her enunciation is always
distinct. Hut she isn’t an actress yet; the
conventional frosty reserve and hauteur of
the concert platform hangs about her. Still
you seem to hear a voice saying, “Never
mind about the acting just now —you just
listen to this!” Chas. Walenn, who, as Sir
Joseph Porter, makes up like Prime Minis-
ter Asquith, plays with strict attention to
small details and supplies a neat and care-
fully-rounded study. G. Villiers Arnold
(Captain Corcoran) looks the part and sings
with_ considerable expression. Edward
McKeown is about a stone too heavy in
flesh and spirit as Rackstraw; Frank Wil-
son overacts pretty consistently as Bobstay:
and Albert Ivavanagh recovers about 75
per cent, of the Deadeye humor. Ethel
Morrison makes a statuesque Little Butter-
cup, whose face shows no hint of onrushing
age-; and Katie May is a pleasant and
graceful Hebe. “The Mikado” will be
welcomed on Saturday night.
“Seven Weeks of Baldpate” at Sydney
Criterion —and it begins to look lik; 17.
* * * *
Once more Allen Doone revived “A
Romance in Ireland” at the Palace
(Sydney) on Saturday, and a full house sat
up and reckoned that if it wasn’t as good
as. many another show that has happened
this way. it was good enough. As a matter
of fact, “A Romance in Ireland” is one of
the most pleasing of Doone’s trifles, and
presents him in a species of character which
fits hi? personality and largely accounts for
his popularity. The least that can be said
for it is that it is an improvement upon
“The Bold Sojer Bov.” which preceded it.
* -i‘ * *
“The Woman Pays,” revived at the Syd-
ney Adelphi on Saturday, provides Miss Vera
Remee with an excellent opportunity to
display her ability to shed tears, and enables
George Cross to demonstrate to the inatten-
tive Kaiser for the 5000th time that virtue
must triumph, even if it does take four acts
and 13 scenes to do the job. Further, it
affords Ronald Riley a splendid chance
to increase the hatred which the gods
have for him. brought about by his
incurable habit of mining innocent
females and blightin'? the hopes of
beautiful heroes. Finally, it is the means
of dragging out of The Bulletin a further
curse on the AiFlnhi’s blacking-out lights.
For next week, “The Christian.”
"H.M.S. PENAFORE," AT SYDNEY
HER MAJESTY'S.
Sir Joseph Porter , K.C.B.
The Sydney Tivoli Follies, who take
command of the second half of the
Mclntosh programme, much as Irving
Sayles and Co. ran the old first part,
provide an entertainment that is a
glorification of the defunct first part.
Being novel, the new arrangement took on
wonderfully when it was first hatched. How
it will be received in a month’s time The
Bulletin doesn’t know, but it fancies that
the gods will hunger for more of the strong
man who stands on his ear and juggles
battleships and Great Pyramids with his
feet. Meanwhile, however, the show is doing
splendidly, and if in the long run it tires it
doesn’t look as though it will be the fault
of Miss Isabelle D’Armond, Jack Cannot and
Monte Wolf, the best combination of cheer-
fulness that vaudeville has had of late.
Sydney moving pictures that are worth
while :
Crystal Palace: “In the Nick of Time,” a most
exciting railway picture. A reformed drunk, through
interfering with other people’s business, prevents a
big smash, ar.d is married in consequence. Moral:
Mind Your Own Business.
Lyric : “On the Warpath,” a thrilling yarn of
pioneering.
Colonial: “The Spark Eternal,” concerning the
unfriendly feeling that exists between rival gangs of
Yankee crooks. (P.S. —Don’t he afraid of Ihese
Yankee crooks. You can’t hear them.)
When the White City reopens at Rush-
cutter’s Bay (Sydney) on December 12 in-
cluded in the new thrills will be a 130-foot
Ferris wheel, a mountain slide and an
immense dancing pavilion. Old friends like
the scenic railroad (along a volcanic in-
stead of an Alpine route), the mazes, aero-
planic devices, switchbacks, fun factories
and such like will be at the familiar stands.
At the Melbourne Royal “The Yellow
Ticket” continues to cast aspersions on the
police methods of Moravia, while throwing
the conduct of Baron Audrey into unseemly
relief. The Baron is the libertine who
represents a purple passage in Marie
Varenlta’s life, and affords a giddy contrast
to the six feet of Baptist conscience and
yellow journalese who becomes her rock of
refuge in her darkest hour. This astute
pressman stands as the ambassador of
Amurkau civilisation among a primitive
people, and has the task of expressing his
country’s aggregate horror at the Moravian
treatment of Flossies and Jews. Naturally
“H.M.S. PINAFORE.”
DICK DEADEYE (Albert Ravauagh): “What
was that?” “It was the cat!”
he wrings himself dry of indignation in the
job, and inferentially exalts the free
dominions of Uncle Sham, where, by the way,
niggers count no more than Yids in Moravia,
and Lais is allowed to advertise her profes-
sion in the papers.
At Her Majesty’s in Melbourne these are
the last nights of “The Girl in the Taxi,”
and of the furious all-night restaurant where
the boss waiter is an amateur philosopher
and sage and the girls are no worse than
they might be. Two nights last week Fred
Maguire attended the resort in the company
of a new “Guide to Knowledge,” in the
person of Miss Bradley, an Australian
charmer whose bright acting and singing
made the absence of the original Mrs.
Pomarel a matter easily overlooked.
* * * *
Barring the appearance of Hodgson
Taylor in the role of Sir Roger Fairfax,
previously decorated by Lewis Willoughby,
there is nothing of great moment to record
regarding “Sweet Nell of Old Drury” at
Melbourne King’s. Nell is still putting
the temper of My Lord Jeffreys on edge, and
is regularly fingering the harpsichord to
soothe the troubled spirit of her royal
Bloke. As for the Bloke, he continues to
suggest that the shins of the father descend
upon the child, inasmuch as, according to
contemporary pictures, his historical parent,
Charles 1.. was similarly unimposing about
the legs. In passing, Marcus- St. John, who
was accidentally omitted from last, week’s
notice, is hereby mentioned in despatches
for an effective study of Percival, the beery
actor with the dismantled hat.
At the Princess’s the Willoughby Co. is
trying to refresh Melbourne’s memory of the
Kelly Gang with a four-act bellowdrama,
wherein the management spares no gun-
powder to do justice to the occasion. Re-
volvers speak with fury from the beginning
of the disturbance, and hostilities continue
unabated until the gang is obliterated at
10.30 p.m. Still, apart from its carnage
“H.M.S. PINAFORE.”
BOSUN WILSON (of H.M.S. Pinafore):
“For he might have been a Roosian (cheers),
a French (cheers), or 'lurk (hoots), or
Proosian (loud boos and groans), or per-
haps I-tal-an (seuce).”
and insistent demand on the undertaker, the
outrage scores a small point in depicting
the Kellys without the usual whitewash.
There is none of the glamor of romantic
portraiture about Dan, or Steve Hart or
Joe Byrne. Even a small attempt to
reveal Ned as a perfect gentleman fails
from want of conviction half-way, while
some of his female relatives are pictured as
semi-blithered old parties suffering from
innumerable touches of liquor. The fierce
light of exaggeration, however, beats upon
the police, who are brutal and incompetent,
as in Fitzpatrick’s case, or insufferably
clownish, as in the instances of Magiimis
and O’Hara. These two over-talkative
cops are played by Ward Lyons and D’Arcy
Kelway. Roland Conway affords a flat
sketch of desperado Ned, which suggests
that the art of assassination may be closely
connected with the assassination of art.
Beckett appears as Joe Byrne, Bruce New-
ham is Dan, and Jack Kirby gives a flourish
to the dialogue allotted to Steve Hart.
Miss Gwen Dorise is cast for Kate Kelly,
and Miss Ida Gresham is another Kelly at
her libations. The Kellys are only for six
nights, it seems. The Girl will again' Take
the Wrong Turning on Saturday.
Gregan McMahon’s Repertory Co., includ-
ing Miss Beatrice Day, commences a, three-
nights’ season in Bernard Shaw’s “Philan-
derer” at Melbourne Athenaeum next
Saturday night.
Compared with the J. W. Rickaby of a
while ago, the J. W. Rickaby who is appear-
ing again at Melbourne Tivoli is a richer
and racier artist, with a more embellished
style and a stronger sense of eccentric
comedy. In his “Piccadilly” item he
achieves a smart bit of Cockney portraiture
that needs more than a bashed hat and red
nose to make it convincing. Mooney and
Ilolbien, comprising a stiff gentlemah dancer
and a pungent songstress, are entertaining
enough; but Noble and Brooks show evi-
dence of nasal bias and unsound training
in some regrettable ragtime tunes. Roberts
and Lester are repeating their whistling act
for a few _ nights, and the tall baritone,
George_ Whitehead, is trying to give melo-
dramatic weight to simple songs with the
help of several changes of limelight and
some absurd pink clothes.
Features at Hoyt’s National, Melbourne,
this week are “Lucille Love” (eleventh
spasm) ; “The Countess,” a yarn of a news-
paper scoop; and “The Golden Ladder,” a
heart-throb lasting several minutes. At
Hoyt’s Olympia a gust of Asiatic bellow-
drama, entitled “The Sleeping Death,” is
the week’s sensation, with “Cutey’s Wife”
and “A Prairie Flower” the most noticeable
among the “also rans.”
ihe New York Comedy Quartette are at
Melbourne Bijou A this week. They are a
capital bunch of singers in fancy-dress.
Elton Fox, a black-and-wlrte draughtsman,
with a gift for picturing Kitchener, Harry
Lauder and other celebrities, is also at
work at this house. Others include Reg
Wykeham and Pressy Preston, who have


M
Here’s
_Whv
DUPLEX
BRACES
FOR MEN OF ACTION
Extraordinary Announcement to Agents.
Christmas Edition of
The Bulletin, 1914.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that the
CHRISTMAS NUMBER of “THE
BULLETIN” will be an EXTRA
and SPECIAL ISSUE.
Date of Publication: December 12, 1914.
This SPECIAL NUMBER will con-
tain high-class Stories, Verse and other
Literary Contributions from foremost
Australasian writers; ‘
The Illustrations will be supplied by
the popular Bulletin artists, and
others in the front rank of the artistic
world.
The Ordinary Issue of The Bulletin
will he published on the usual date.
Agents are requested to note
that, as the Christmas Number ot
“The Bulletin” is now going to
press, the orders that reach us -from
now on will be treated in order of
priority. .
Just Two Tiny Drops
From the little bottle on to your handkerchief, then snuff it up the
nose, and you will find it remarkably efficacious the way it
CURES THAT COLD.
It is a preparation just on the market, and is
rapidly finding its way into popular favor. It
is known as
NAZETHA
THE BIG COLD CURE IN THE LITTLE BOTTLE.
It is a great improvement on the old method
of taking drugs into the system.
&
4
FOR THE
CHILDREN
It’s a splendid
remedy. A few
drops on the pillow
at night, and in
the morning there’s
certain relief.
GIVR IX A TRIAL.
YOU’LL NEVER BE WITHOUT IT.
”| jQ Worth its Weight in Gold.
POST FREE —POST FREE.
A. P. MILLER & SONS, Hobart.
Wholesale—All Melbourne Wholesale Druggists.
SUFFERER* FROM
CATARRH
will derive much
benefit from the
use of Nazetha, by
snuffing the sooth-
ing ethers through
the nose.
made a plunge into vaudeville, but flatly
make a splash in their sketch, My 1 fiend
Smith.” Even if the piece were not rather
empty, Miss Preston’s hard method would
be a large boulder in the way to success.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Cove”: Gilbert and Sullivan —which is
their best? “The Mikado” won most London
favor with its novelty, hut I relish nearly all
the others more’. Maybe “Patience” is the
greatest musical triumph. There is no other
work in which four such good things come
toppling on each other as “Hey! Good-
Day !” “Now We Go Like This,” “In that
Case, Unprecedented” and “An Up-to-Date
Young Man.” Also the “Silver Churn” is
markedly clever. Its rhythm lingers like
“Take a Pair of Sparkling Eyes” in “The
Gondoliers” and “Poor Wandering One” in
“The Pirates,” inspired by Ganz’s “Sing,
Sweet Bird.” What, in its way, ever equalled
“When the Enterprising Burglar ain’t a-
Burgling”? As for the poorest, curiously
enough the partners, Gilbert and Sullivan
and Carte, were never so nervous as over
“The Yeomen of the Guard.”
“C. Ockney” : When christening his musi-
cal pieces the ever-whims:cal Gilbert never
contented himself with one name. . I looked
in the other evening to see “The Merryman
and His Maid,” which is the author’s other
title for “The Yeomen of the Guard.” Also,
I have renewed acquaintance with “The
Peer and the Peri.” which is “lolanthe,” and
“The Town of Titipu” (or “The Mikado”).
Besides these there are “The Slave of Duty”
(“The Pirates of Penzance”), “Bunthorne’s
Bride” (“Patience”), and “The Lass that
Loved a Sailor” (“ILM.S. Pinafore”). Still,
it wouldn’t matter if they were all merely
labelled “Gilbert and Sullivan.” Whichever
one you struck would be quite good enough
for your money.
“THE GIRL IN THE TAXI," AT HER
MAJESTY'S, MELBOURNE.
Monsieur Pomarel. One of the boys.
A collection of mottoes of prominent
players appropriate to the present times is
on sale in London for the benefit of the
Prince of Wales Relief Fund. Lily Brayton
chose a line from the most incomprehensible
of poets, Browning: “Help refused is hin-
drance sought and found.” Oscar Asche
weighed in with a couplet from Hume: —
The truly generous is the truly wise,
And he who loves not others lives unblest.
H. B. Irving was brief and to the point:
“For this' relief much thanks.” Marie Lohr
went to the works of Quakeress Hannah
More :
O Charity, divinely wise,
Thou meek-eyed Daughter of the Skies.
Lillali McCarthy hit upon one of the best,
Charles Kingsley’s lines: “Do noble things,
not dream them all day long.”
“Kaniva”: Mrs. Fanny Musgrove, mother
of George, Harry and Frank (of Australia)
and Dr. Charles (of Buenos Ayres) is still
living in Melbourne. Mrs. Musgrove, now
87, is a grandniece of the great Sarah Sid-
dons, whom she is said to have resembled,
and the daughter of George Hodson, an
English song-writer. Mrs. W. S. Lyster
(better known as Georgia Hodson), who did
a lot of singing with Lucy Escott and
Squires in the days when Lyster kept opera
going briskly in Sydney and Melbourne, was
a sister.
The late Erskine Scott, who died IS
months ago, is not to rest unlabelled, so to
speak, in Melbourne’s big general cemetery.
The members of West’s Pictures staff and a
few friends have erected a suitable marble
cross to help keep green the memory of the
most literary advt.-writer Australia has pro-
duced. “Australia at Work,” the only pro-
fitable spec. Pathe Freros touched while oper-
ating their own affairs in Australia, was an
idea of Erskine Scott’s. As a good Protec-
tionist he had been eager to run Australian
industrial pictures throughout the country;
but the .cost of production, at the time the
idea struck him, was quite prohibitive.
Eventually he got his idea off in conjunction
with Path£, and handed the show over to
his understudy, M. P. Adams, who made it
jig-
“THE YELLOW TICKET” AT MEL-
BOURNE ROYAL.
The mailer and one of the
Secret Tolice. ’Ssh.
The American Press turns
the cold eye on the foreign
Count's main feature.
“Melb”: Of all our stage Ned Kellys,
W. G. Carey was most like the original,
and Dan Barry the most unlike. Dan was
too short and fat. Besides, he had a weak
voice, and forced it in pistol shots, which
wasn’t Ned’s method at all. All his pistol-
firing he did out of steel.
“Stargazer” : An innovation was witnessed
at Melbourne Royal on the night of the first
production of “The Yellow Ticket.” When
the Baron Scarpia of the piece is pricked
to death with a bare bodkin bv La Tosca
the curtain comes down with the body lying
behind the couch. In response to urgent
clamor from the ushers and others, the cur-
tain went up, disclosing the killer on the
stage and the rigid feet and shinbones of the
killed still projecting bevond the couch. Down
the curtain! More official and semi-official
clamor. Up curtain ! Once more the killer
and the painful intrusive legs of the corpse.
Other members of the co. joined Miss Starr
to bow to the applause; but the dead hoof
of Baron Audrey continued to occupy much
stage space L.C. I don’t claim that the
killed should be restored to life, but if the
living participants are coming on again to
bow and scrape, the slain should certainly
be removed from the field. As continuations
of the scene those curtains were a pitiful
failure by reason of the glad smiles of the
pros, taking their measure of public appreci-
ation ; as recalls, they were incongruous
because of Baron Audrey’s persistence in
putting his foot in it.
“Melb.”: The Licenses Reduction Board
has just fixed the compensation to be paid
for the bars of the Bijou and Gaiety
Theatres; and when the current licensing
year runs out the dog that you go to buy will
be unchained and shooed off those premises.
This will put them on the same footing as
Her Majesty’s and the King’s ; and the Royal
and Princess’s will follow —unless it’s untrue
that wliat’s sauce for the gander is sauce for
the goose.
“Gordon G.” : A new comedy co., headed
by one Moran, has been got together, mainly
in Ballarat, to tour “the provinces,” and,
strangely enough, is now the only one of its
kind on the track in Victoria. Not even the
drought and the war are going to hinder it
in its project, which is expected to unwind
itself with the New Year. “What Happened
to Jones,” “Charley’s Aunt,” “Confusion”
and “The Magistrate” are in the repertoire,
and the cast threatens to cool the most
cantankerous critics —if there are any in the
regions to be explored.
Hoyt’s new picture house is taking shape
on the old St. George’s Hall site
and should be ready for customers before
Easter. Director Arthur Russell, who laid
the foundation-stone the other day, has
thrown at contractor Langford a bonus of
£lOO for every week by which he beats con-
tract time.
From London: “Seven Keys to Baldpate,”
given its first English production at the
Apollo, earns varying opinions; but it is
agreed that only an American 'could do jus-
tice to the hero’s part, and that Charles
Hawtrey is not It. Forbes Robertson has
gone -for an American farewell tour, he
relies principally on “Hamlet,” “Cleopatra”
(Shaw’s, not Shakspeare’s), and the old
“Third Floor Back.” Oscar Asche has the
happy idea of running a sort of museum in
the theatre vestibule in the daytime. The
weapons and “properties” of his Zulu play
make quite a good show at close quarters.
Barrie’s “Little Minister” has been revived
with success. Marie Lohr’s Lady Babbie .is
excellent. Many of the variety houses are
down to half-prices, and of the regular
theatres, nearly all have reduced stalls from
10s. 6d. to 7s. 6d., with other seats in pro-
portion.
The thing that always rouses the audi-.
ence when it happens in melodrama occurred
to four detectives who raided the bedroom
of a suspected man at Darlinghurst (Syd-
ney). While they were searching his
belongings for the missing will or some-
thing, he made a bolt and locked the door
from the outside. One of the “demons”
had to drop from the window to release the
others; and thereafter a spirited chase
across the map resulted in a plain constable,
on a bicycle effecting a capture. If the man
they secured had had a little foresight, he
might have covered the cost of his defence
by selling the moving picture-rights of the
incident.
“Harrison O.”: Assuming that dancers
improve up to a certain point with age and
experience, there seems no reason why, when
Pavlova lias followed Gende into retirement,
Vlasta Novotna should not rank as the
brightest star in that heaven. Novotna is
the youthful coryphee who, as leader of the
Russian ballet with Genee, compelled admira-
tion, not only by reason of her technique,
but by a mercurial temperament which,
seemingly, caused her to extract unlimited
delight from her arduous job. In popular
estimation Halina Schmolz ranked at least
second to Genee, but granted Galina’s
beauty, it was difficult to see wherein she
was Novotna’s superior as a dancer-
Schmolz’s chief merit is in her arms,
Novotna’s in her feet. She has not yet
learnt many of Gende’s wonderful acrobatic
tricks, but her style is not markedly inferior
to Adeline’s and her personality is much
more appealing. Gende at her serio-comic
best was a marvellous marionette, but
Novotna is essentially human. There is,
indeed, but one insect in her keg of butter.
Alas ! her ankles are stout!
“II.”: The brightest farce for years bas
just been produced bv Bady Gregory’s co. of
Irish players at Dublin. It is “A Minute’s
Wait,” and is a skit upon the easy-going
habits that still linger on some Hibernian
railways. The scene is a countryside station,
where the train is supposed to stop for a
minute; but all sort of characters drop in,
and the minute grows to 55. Whenever the
station-master and guard find everything
clear something happens to make them good-
naturedly “wait just wan moment more.”
There is time even for bargaining between
the parents of a “broth of a bhoy” and a
“party colleen”; but for that the train waits
something like lOmin., because all the pas-
sengers have become interested witnesses of
the matrimonial negotiations.
“J.M.” : At Fitzroy (Melb.) picture show
one evening, when “Bathe’s Gazette” was
being screened, the Kaiser figured promin-
ently, and was greeted with stirring enthusi-
asm by a stolid person sitting not far from
me. All of a sudden a dozen or
more hands flew out and seized him,
whirled him out into the street, pushed
his face up the leg of his trousers,
dragged him to a handy horse trough, a-d
soaked him. He was still there, wondering
what day it was, when I returned to see
the remainder of the amusement. He started
it, of course. Still, you can’t defend them.
But that’s how the average crowd feels about
it.
(Continued on page SO.)
The Scotchbyterians of Melbourne pro-
pose to move their Scotch College from East
Melbourne to Glenferrie. The site chosen is
known as the Hawthorn Glen Estate, whose
52 acres run back from Glenferrie-road to
the Yarra. The property used to be owned
by W. H. Glen, founder of the Collins-street
music firm, who erected a Tudor castle on
it. and died before he could find out what
to do with it. “Scotch” has a daily attend-
ance of nearly 600 youths, and has for years
been cramped for room in its old" quarters.
“Gordon G.”: Vic. Judges are becoming
more and more disposed to read the law in
favor of those persons who seek the Divorce
Court for the purpose of getting a mutually
irksome marriage-knot untied. A’Beckett,
J., has all along been in favor of casting his
judgment for a petitioner in “border-line”
cases, recognising that it is better to put an
end to a state of affairs which means misery
for all parties, children included, than to
order it to be prolonged. From a judgment
of Hodges, J., delivered recently, it looks as
though he was tending in the same direc-
tion :—•
To send the epnple back to each other would be
simply to fend them to lower depths, and might lead
to still more disastrous consequences. The most ex-
cruciating' cruelty is not that of blows, but of con-
duct such as this, a strain being put upon the whole
system of the woman, who was shown that she was a
thing to be spurned, a hated thing, to be morally, if
not physically, trodden on. _
Maybe in a few years we may hear counsel
remarking at the close l
You see, y’Onah, my client’s tired of him, and he’s
tired of her; in fact, they’re both dead sick of each
other.
And then his ’Onah, -being satisfied that
that is the strength of things, may enter
a decree. It will be a good deal more ad-
vantageous to the moral health of the com-
munity than the present way of doing busi-
ness.
The Age, talking of the surprising energy
which politicians display at election time,
says: “Even Mr. Murray has abandoned tor
the time his ‘don’t hustle’ theory, and is
briskly canvassing the electors.” xes ; John
and the rest of them exhibit the spryness ot
men who, having been turned out of bed on
a cold morning, are in a great hurry to get
back again.
The S. M. Herald quotes gleefully from
the Duke of Wellington: —
I can assure you that from the General of the
Germans down to the smallest drumboy in their
legion, the earth never groaned with such a lot ot
murdering, infamous villains. They murdered, robbed
and ill-treated peasantry wherever they went.
(Maxwell’s Life.)
But the Duke also remarked concerning the
British soldiers whom he led :
They are the scum of the earth. English soldiers
are fellows who have enlisted for drink. That is the
plain fact. They have all enlisted (Stan-
hope, “Conversations with the Duke.”)
Before a Royal Commission he declared:
I have no idea of any great effect being produced
on British soldiers by anything but the fear of
immediate corporal punishment. (Oman, Welling-
ton’s Army.”)
Taking one thing with another, Wellington
is therefore a dangerous fejlow to quote on
the culture of soldiers, British or German.
Christopher Brandis, who spent a quarter
of a century trying to find out what the
N.S.W. land laws are, died last week. When
in 1890 it was decided to have a Band Appeal
Court, Frank Rogers, Q.C., now Judge, was
made President, and the job was considered
important enough to carry £2OOO a year.
The President represented the Baw: Stephen
Freeman, who had been Under-Sec., stood
for the red tape; Christopher Brandis, who
had been pastoral inspector for one of the
big banks, brought in the practical experi-
ence. Mr. Rogers thought the president
should have the status of a Supreme Court
judge, and retired when it wasn’t conceded;
and after that the pomp of the Court faded
steadily, until now the bench is filled by
three ex-officers of the Bands Department,
without a penn’orth of horsehair among
them.
Private Enterprise is having a good
time in N.S.W. The Premier has. declared
in favor of the Private Enterprise book-
maker and against the Socialistic tote.
Another Minister has dug up the old pro-
position that railway construction should
be handed over to the English Private Enter-
prise firm of Norton-Griffiths and Co., the
contractors to get almost any old price for
the work so long as they take securities by
way of payment. The floating of loans with
Private Enterprise goes on incessantly. And
the Private Enterprise ferry co. has become
so certain that it isn’t going to be interfered
with by the Public Enterprise bridge or
subway that it has not only raised its
fares but has cut down its service.
The Bulletin hereby offers that fair ex-
change which is said to be no robbery. If
Premier Holman will issue all tlje evidence
at his disposal in support of the statement
that the totalisator is only advocated in
N.S.W. by people who have “good reasons”
for doing so, it will, in return, publish all
the information it can collect as to the rea-
sons why that disgruntled Eaborite, Ilql-
man’s old friend Nielsen, is still receiving
£4 a day as a N.S.W. “Commissioner” in
America. And it doesn’t mind throwing in
everything it can learn about the reasons
why this petted child of fortune gets, in
addition to his £4 a day. £6OO for rent;
£5OO for travelling expenses; £2OO for rail-
way expenses ; £B5O for incidental expenses ;
£250 for new office furniture; and is pro-
vided with a staff whose wages ran, at latest
advices, to about £2400 per annum. There
is no great increase of business to show for
all this representation and commissionering.
Nielsen seems to cost as much as a King’s,
mistress did in the bad old days of France.
A GRAIN OF COMFORT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
With my agent I visited most of the European
centres, spending every night in the theatres looking
for attractions. —Australian manager on his return
from foreign parts.
When now and then I, yawning, go
To kill time at a footlight show,
I sit and stew, and wish that I
Were wand’ring ’neath the star-gemmed sky.
And when the rustling curtain falls
In circle, gallery and stalls
The men press outward to the night
From heated air and blinding light,
To seek upon the cool, dark pave
The drink and yarn and smoke they crave.
And as the fragrant clouds they blow,
They curse the foolish, stifling show.
When safe at home in garments old,
And handy to a drink that’s cold,
I watch the white stars burn on high,
And love the cool wind wand’ring by.
Then, quite at ease, ’tis my delight
To think of people crowded tight
Who have to swelter, crane and stare
While kitten breezes paw my hair,
And the drenched garden’s shadowed banks
Render to me their scented thanks....
But when once more I pant and thirst,
And feel just fit to melt or burst,
I’ll draw the sting from hours accurst
With this: “They had to hear it first T”
N.S.W.
CIRCLE.


Remarkable Suit Value.
All Wool Indigo Blue Serge
Made in Australia
SAC SUIT TO MEASURE
631-
We can with absolute confidence recommend this suit for
appearance and wear. The material is Pure Wool, in light
Summer weight, with fine Botany Twill finish. Porous and
splendidly cool. For the weight, it is the strongest cloth
manufactured. Coat, ordinary Sac, or with three outside
patch pockets and ticket pocket if desired (without lining).
Let us send you a sample of this material for examination.
We Pay Carriage Throughout Australasia.
DAVID JONES LTD.
Opp. O.P. 0.,
SYDNEY.
M
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the '“ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
POWNTPE N.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Anstrali n Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255aGeorgeSt., Sydney
M
Society
PENFOLDS
WINES
An Australian artist, who has been hunt-
ing inspiration Abroad for some years, photo-
graphs Uncle Sam’s best girl for The
Bulletin :
She is, on the average, the plainest, yellowest
haired female under the sun. She decorates her
head with a hideous jockey-cap or a black, soft,
coffee-pot arrangement with a feather spout, while
her dress is divided into three separate over-lapping
folds that make her look like a mad, walking jelly-
fish. On her feet she wears flat, rubber shoes with-
out any arches to them, and she has eyes that turn
round, like snails’ horns, for dollars.
After the hard words that have been cast at
the Australian girl by Yankee visitors this
should raise her from the dust of her
humility and place her on the top shelf
again.
THE ROUT.
VISITOR : “Good Lord, old man, what's the matter? Burglars ?”
MASTER OF THE HOUSE : “Oh, nothing, nothing! I've just discharged the cook."
“W.D.’s” theory:—
Kitchener has announced that the army which is
being prepared for service in March next amounts
to a million and a quarter men, and Lloyd-George said
a couple of days later that an army of 2,000,000
will be produced. The Bulletin writer (22/10/’l4)
who says that Kitchener cannot produce an effective
army in eight months on account of the difficulty of
training officers may be right. On the other hand he
may be wrong. In the first place, numbers of
Kitchener’s new officers are being drawn from the
Universities, and are men who in the ordinary course
would have practised medicine or gone to the Bar
and other professions. They are men of quicker in-
telligence than the normal military type, and they
have just gone through a long course of mental train-
ing which will help them in the swift absorption of
technicalities. In the second place, nobody can dog-
matise, because Kitchener is attacking a problem
which nobody has ever before been called upon to
solve. But two things are known for certain. One
is that everything missing from the British Army,
from a trooper to a stirrup, is instantly replaced.
The other is that post-mortems on Germans killed
during the attempted rush on Paris disclosed that
they had been living on roots torn up in the fields.
Food and sleep are the two prime requisites of the
fighting man. A mere superiority in the training of
its officers would not prevent a sleepless army fed on
turnips from going down before a well-rested army
fed on beef. If Kitchener can ensure food and sleep
on the present effective scale to the colossal armies
which Britain will shortly fye handling—and there is
no reason to suppose that he cannot —he will have
solved a problem which has clearly baffled the Ger-
man specialists, and which is in the end the only
real problem for solution.
The Berliner Tageblatt came up last
week with the following queer lie: —
The French Government pays for the support of
the English auxiliary troops, so that each man draws
on a day on which no fighting occurs four francs,
while on each fighting day he is entitled to eight
francs.
It is designed presumably to make Hans
cheerful. Only the Teuton mind knows
why. The ordinary enemy would be appalled
at the notion of facing such fearful odds in
gold. When the Powers went to China over
the Boxer trouble, the Asiatic was inter-
ested in one thing only—the soldier’s pay.
It was found that Britain paid Tommy a
half-dollar (Straits currency), France paid
Piou-Piou a half-penny, and Hans got
nothing. The news flashed through Asia.
The fighting men of India were interested
to absorption. “Nothing!” So Germany
was a poor bankrupt country that couldn’t
afford to pay its troops. And a white race
too! Hans won’t in a century recover the
prestige he lost in a month. Asia once it
gets an idea into its skull is as thick-headed
as Hans himself. The very coolie who is
inured to snarl and vituperation shrivels up
under one insult: “You no British-subject
boy.” The implication is that he is insol-
vent.
WHERE HE GRADUATED.
KAISER : " My poy, your account of dot last battle vos a corker. I couldn't haf magnified
our victory more successfully mineself. Vere did you gain such vonderful pro-
ficiency mit figures? ”
SUBJECT: "At von time, your Majesty, I prepared de circulation statements of the Berlin
GOTTERDAMERUNG."
“0.C.C.” writes :—•
A good many months —or was it years ?—ago you
published some verse of mine concerning the dredges
(Seagull and Swallow) then being imported from
Singapore (or somewhere) by the Sydney Harbor
Trust. If I remember aright the verse toyed with
the fact that, when a S. M. Herald reporter sought
details of the new dredges, the Trust, very naturally,
could not tell him. A few days, or weeks (or it
might have been months), after The Bulletin
printed that verse, the dredges arrived in more or
less dilapidated condition. They were promptly in-
terned —I think that is the word nowadays—in
Kerosene Bay. You will be pleased to know that
they are still there, and that the curio-collectors of
the Harbor Trust have retained, with true scientific
zeal, the entire collection of sea-grass, weeds, bar-
nacles and rust which the dredges brought with them
from the mysteriously perfumed “East.” Also, as I
am sure all good loanizens of the Ma State will rejoice
to hear, the interest on the loan-money spent on
these imported craft is accumulating side by side
with the valuable botanical specimens contributed
by Davy Jones, Esq. The caretaker says (or is
understood to have said) that they are the best
dredges ever imported.
* * * *
Petrograd cables that Turkey has been
bombarding with the cruiser Hamidieh.
This ancient craft of 3800 tons has a name
which is full of bitter recollections for the
Unspeakable. Some years back Turkey had
a bigger-navy agitation and plumped for a
super-Dreadnought. As British building
was a sine qua non, cash down was re-
quired. An immense effort was made to
get the money. The ship was named in
advance —the Sultan Hamidieh 11. The
cash was mainly got by taking round the
fez on the ferry-boats in the Bosphorous.
After years of pattering along the decks
and the wearing out of innumerable fezzes,
the requisite 2i millions was subscribed,
and amid national rejoicings the order was
given. Then war broke out and Britain
took over the Sultan Hamidieh 11., and
changed its name to the Agincourt. The
history, of the Goeben proves that the
Hamidieh 11. would have been wasted on
the Turk. British naval experts gave him
a month in which to ruin the Goeben—the
most intricate piece of naval architecture
that had issued from a dockyard. That the
experts were right is proved by the fact
that in the Goeben’s first and only scrap
the. Turks were bested by a vessel half
their size, couldn’t get their engines or
their guns to work, and finally amid a series
of explosions “disappeared in the mist.”
The S. M. Herald recently broke out in
a scoff of some tonnage re the Sydney host-
esses who have been inviting their friends
“to meet the German officers” :
The prisoners of war here are, some of them, per-
sons of some importance in their own country, and
they cannot understand the Australian way at all. We
may perhaps distinguish between an earl and a
baronet, but about foreign titles we are most hazy.
Some of the ex-officials from New Guinea firmly think
that the Australians who entertain them are doing it
with an object. When the war is over these hosts
fondly hope that they will be admitted into the inner
circles of Berlin aristocracy, graciously permitted to
enter therein because they had shown hospitality to
the members of the triumphant caste when imprisoned
in far-away and insignificant Sydney. The social
pushers, they think, would even betray their country
to get into the “best set” in Berlin. We Aus-
tralians are quite unconscious of the contempt in
which we are held by haughty and exclusive person-
ages of high descent.
These are unkind things to say about Mrs.
Leo Hunter, but they are probably very
true. Like the Greeks of Paul’s time she
always runs after some new thing. And
meanwhile our old royalty King Billy has
abandoned the cities because of her in-
hospitality. The last one who pervaded
Sydney had his favorite haunt outside the
Theatre Royal, and wore a battered top
hat and no boots, and was chiefly dressed
in a profound yearning for sixpence. No-
body gave him a living allowance, or quar-
ters at any leading hotel. Yet he repre-
sented a mor6 exclusive upper class than
the high-born German. No one ever sup-
posed that there were 2000 kings in Aus-
tralia ; yet there was a time, not very long
ago, when there were 2000 rulers in Ger-
many, and as to the “high-born” and the “well-
born” it was impossible to throw a brick
even in the Black Forest without hitting
three of them. The present writer was
described as the high-born Henry Horse-
collar on every hotel bill he ever received
in- Germany. It is time someone realised
that the German aristocracy is so numerous
that it has ceased to be an aristocracy ex-
cept in its own mind, while our native kings
are scarce and rare and precious. With a
good wash, and a uniform, and a pint of
beer to cheer him up, William the 200th of
Australia might not be a bad attraction at
an evening party. His origin is lost in
antiquity. His pedigree goes back to the
original seed ’possum of this great country.
He descended from the gum-tree. He is a
harmless person who doesn’t erect wireless
stations and communicate with the enemy.
And he is useful in a way, which many of
the German “high-born” are not. *At
chopping wood and polishing boots he can
hold his own with a dozen “excellencies.”
HAD EVA LIVED AT SALE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
A young woman, whose name is Glass, was sitting
under a Gippsland apple tree, conversing with a man,
when a snake glided in between them. Miss Glass
promptly pinned the viper to the ground with the
needle-point of her sunshade.
—Pakenham correspondent.
The proverb teaches “Live and learn.”
This late example shows us all
That mankind, doomed in fire to burn
By reason of old Adam’s fall,
Might have been spared his dreadful fate,
To linger still in Eden’s gate.
In sweet simplicity arrayed,
Had Eva been a Gippsland maid.
Had Eva been bugh-bred, mankind
At peace would be with all the earth,
Instead of fighting, blood-lust blind,
For things that are of little worth.
Alas! we suffer for the fall
Because Eve had no parasol,
And did not know what steps to take
To put the kybosh on a snake.
Still, room remains for gravest doubt.
Had Eva been a modern miss
And known what it was all about,
When startled by the serpent’s hiss,
She might have slain the snake at will,
Or might have left it living still.
I know the sex. It is its use
To hug a plausible excuse!
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


M
M
M
the:
FIRST TUBE
of Pebeco you use will clearly demonstrate its merits to
the full. The taste is totally different from that of any
otner dentifrice; not flat, but quite distinctive and agree-
able, a taste remarkably clean, refreshing and purifying,
a taste which, once accustomed to, you will not willingly
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube, with useful Book and interesting test, F ree
for three penny stamps, on application to the
Manufacturer.
G. ARNOLD,
(Dept. A), 6 O’Connell St., Sydney.
(WHOLESALE ONLY.)
[1
DIFFERENT TO ALL OTHERS
—The Taffeta Washing Suits.
Note the roominess of these suits, their very evident coolness,
the distinctive cut and the smart style of the inset pockets.
Taffeta is so delightfully cool and washes so well that the
suits won instant popularity when we introduced them last
year.
The demand is equally keen this season, and we advise early
ordering. The suits are made in-England for us, and typify
British thoroughness in clothes-making.
The coat has the new sports-style half-band at back, and
trousers have cuff bottoms.
An ideal Christmas gift.
Two plain shades —grey and fawn
42/
Please state chest, waist and inside leg measurements when
ordering.
Patterns of “No-Veste” Suits and Catalogue on request.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
Men’s Outfitters,
309 and 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
M
Spiritualists are trying to make connec-
tion with the souls of departed soldiers,
and one of tljem writes to Melbourne
Herald :—-
Spiritualists are unanimous in believing that after
rleath a soldier, under the powerful influence of
thought, still goes on fighting. Heath is not realised.
What he was immediately before death he is immedi-
ately after death. In a recent message Mr. Stead
described the condition of the souls thrust so terribly
out of their bodies. They think they are still fighting
in the midst of the carnage. Spirit helpers are at
hand in great numbers to draw them from the earth
conditions, and to prevent them following the struggle
in which they think they are still taking part. -
Beautiful and benign creed! The gentle-
man who was killed by a blow from a pewter
pot while drinking from another pewter pot
keeps drinking out of unfathomable pewter
pots after death; and the municipal coun-
cillor who fractured his skull while climbing
up the Age office stairs with a paragraph
about himself, continues climbing ghostly
stairs with intangible paragraphs to shadowy
sub-editors. Maybe. But how it sharpens
the hatred of death and the instinct of self-
preservation! If bores are uneseapable here-
after, the grave is full of victories, and death
has as many stings as an angry beehive.
*. * * *
By “Solomon Ma’.aprop” :
I hate to cam or criticise, but sometimes, when I
read the morning paper, I almost wish the Allies
would sell some of their victories and buy a little
more success with the money.
* * * *
•V citizen of Northcote (Vic.) and his
wife, both blind, have a family of six chil-
dren, ranging from 15 years to 13 months.
The youngest having contracted pneumonia
and whooping cough, there was "lainlv a call
for a hospital or nursing home, so the
afflicted father set about getting the infant
into one; but though Melbourne boasts
dozens of hospitals and scores of charitable
institutions, he hasn’t succeeded yet. The
Children’s Hospital couldn’t take the child
because of the danger of infecting others;
the Melbourne Hospital is not open to chil-
dren under 12 ; Salv’army and Church homes
wouldn’t risk infection ; and at the Infec-
tious Diseases Hospital, if you haven’t got
the right sort of infection, it is your own bad
luck. Anyhow, it refused the whooping-
cough case. The Board of Health looked up
SPARING HER
FEELINGS.
Auntie, hadn't yon better bet me take
you out on the balcony? Then you won't
set them dancing,"
its by-laws and decided that it had no juris-
diction. As a last resort the harassed
father spoke to the local town clerk, who
20t_ the benevolent society to skirmish up a
trained nurse. What a disgusted public will
want to know is what on earth an Infec-
tious Diseases Hospital is for if not to
accommodate cases of infectious disease,
and why it is allowed to refuse them? Inci-
dentally, how long does the Government
intend to dally with its Charities Bill, and
when will Victorian charitable institutions
be run on sane and economical lines —that
is to say, lines that will ensure that at least
half the money subscribed for charitable pur-
poses reaches those for whom it is intended?
The devoted temperance reformer works
in curious ways his blunders to perform.
Marion, of the N.S.W. Alliance, lately
wrote to the press stating that the effort
of various people to make the military
canteens “wet” was “raising a storm of pro-
test.” The same issue contained the advt.
of the temperance organisation calling on
all “dry” dervishes “to flood Federal Parlia-
ment House with letters of protest to
senators and local representatives”—a des-
perate attempt to raise a breeze after a
storm had been officially reported.
IMITATION.
BILLY: “ Cripe s! There goes the Missus, riding like a man."
TILLY : “Bin copy me, mine thinkel."
“Ham”: Right under the eye of the
Religious Editor is a State enterprise which
deserves more advertisement than it is get-
ting. Moved by the agitation against the
way the Sydney employment agency robber
victimised women in
search of jobs, the
Government estab-
lished a bureau. But
having secured expen-
sive premises, and
painted the window,
and put in the books
and stationery, it left
it at that. Probably
not one in 20 of the
women who want a
job, or of the women
who have a job they
want filled, know of
the existence of the
place, or, if they do,
where to find it. The
branch makes no.
charge to those who
seek its assistance,
and, moreover, takes
some care in inquir-
ing about the places
where girls are to be
sent. If it also now
and then makes an
inquiry or two about
the girls whom it
sends out, and assures
itself that they don’t
engage to go to more
than five places at
once, and in the end
break their contracts
with the whole five
because they’ve got a
picnic to attend at
Manly, it’s a very
good scheme indeed.
But, in any case, good
or only moderately
good, it is rendered
next door to useless
through lack of pub-
licity. Meantime the employment-agency
robbers continue to bleed clients at their
old well-advertised addresses.
* * * *
Half the bitterest hatreds between nations
arise from misunderstandings. The German
papers published the following last month—
it is- an extract from a Prussian soldier’s
letter—and commented bitterly on it: —
One would not believe it possible that a civilised
nation would wage war in the shameful way that the
English do. Every English soldier has in his equip-
ment a sort of seaman’s knife, to one side of which
is fixed a bent thorn of over a finger’s length. With
this thorn the fellows tear the flesh of the wounded.
The “thorn” is, of course, the contrivance
with which Atkins hooks stones and so on
out of his horse’s hoofs. In a similar spirit
the English papers credulously announced
that every German naval officer carried a
cat o’ nine tails in his cabin for the purpose
of flogging the men to their duties. The
article which had been taken in all good
faith for a flagellator was a clothes-duster.
% There is no accounting for tastes. Jus-
tice Cussen is the most spotless man on the
Victorian Bench. Yet he would rather
work among fat and blood and bad
smells than do almost anything else. He
would rather take 15s. a day for being a
butcher than £1 a day for being nearly any-
thing else. Anyhow, that’s the conclusion
The Bulletin draws from the fact that, in
fixing .the Victorian clerks’ wages the other
day, he decided that women clerks in con-
fectioners’, fruiterers’ and other shops should
get a minimum of 365. a week, and those in
butchers’ shops only 325. Seemingly he
reckoned the smell of the blood worth 4s.
* * * *
Let’s advertise Australia. N.SAV. State
Minister Carmichael found at least one
opportunity to do so on his recent trip. He
was in Munich, talking to a director of the
A SLIGHT CHANGE.
THEN.
No. I. —Here we. see Mrs.
Tory Tress and the old
Tory loyally person
when Australia pro-
posed to build a navy
of its own.
No. 2. — Here we see the same two people
after the Sydney destroyed the raiding
cruiser Emden.
Royal Opera. This musician had once
been asked by “a foreign impresario named
Williamson” to go to Australia, but he
refused. “I know these foreign impres-
arios. They do not pay the salary, and I
find myself penniless in your forests—is it
not so?—a prey to your savage wild animals.”
Carmichael mentioned that one of the
towns in this infested continent was looking
for a director of its Conservatorium, of
Music. The Munich musician was inter-
ested. “What salary you pay?” Carmichael
mentioned £3250 a year. The Herr
Direcktor was impressed. He thought 1250
marks was a good salary—better than he
was getting himself. When Carmichael
mentioned that he meant pounds, not marks,
the German was amazed. “This Sydney, it
must, then, be a big city?” “Oh, no, it’s
only a little town—only about twice the
size of Munich.”
“Callari Park”: According to a cable of
last week: —
The Kaiser has offered £lOOO for the capture,
dead or alive, of Commander Samson, the British
naval airman.
The Kaiser’s Bonus List now stands as
follows: —
For the first man to drop a bomb on London.. £l,OOO
For the first man to drop a bonfb on Britain 500
F'or the first man to enter Calais .. . . 1,000
For tile first man to enter London .. . . 50,000
F’or Samsonoff . . . . . . . • • • 1,000
For Jellicoe ]
For Kitchener J-
For Joffre J
.. .. .. . .Plank cheques.
There are smaller rewards ranging down to
a sovereign per half-doz. (with Iron Cross
coupons) for Empire Leaguers. The thing
strikes me as ill-advised. It is a matter of
common knowledge that wherever the
money is there the Jews are gathered to-
gether. There was hardly one Yid in the
pugilistic business when Tommy Burns in-
augurated the big-purse system. Now thick
ears are as common as ringlets in the world’s
ghettoes. In the days when our forebears
were intoning “Champagne Charlie” and
music-hall artists were glad and proud to
get ss. and a beer for delivering seven songs,
there wasn’t a Hebrew in the profession.
Now the wings and dressing-rooms of a
modern hall resemble the interior of a
synagogue. And so it will be with
the Kaiser’s army. Hitherto Jerusa-
lem has spurned it as an institution which
offers the grotesque wage of about one
farthing per diem. The matter will be differ-
ent once there is money in the game. I
don’t suggest that the Jew is a poor
warrior. Far from it! He is probably
as busy a fighter, once he becomes really
interested, as he was in the days of.
Josephus. But it is money, first with him.
Hence the German trenches will be over-
loaded with Hebrews who, instead of fight-
ing, will play solo whist and interrupt the
battle by trying to lay the combatants a
shade under tlie market odds about the
duration of the war. This, when they are
not plotting to drop into the Strait of Dover
from Ostend, with a northerly blowing, and
enter Calais as Channel swimmers, or wire-
lessing Kitchener to come over and let: him-
self be captured in consideration of half the
reward. For the most part they will be what
is known in the battle-area as “useless
mouths” ; and the Kaiser’s unwisdom in
creating them is one of the most favorable
turns the struggle has taken. I calculate
that it will shorten the proceedings by 1-.
months.
THE UNREASONABLE ENEMY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I read my papers every day
To know about this awful war,
To learn about the splendid way
Of Britons with the bayonet play,
And how the floods of Gorman gore
Along the smoking valleys pour.
Each day I read as in a spell
Of foemen broken ’neath the sword,
How quickly thirty thousand fell,
And how the work begins to tell
Upon the starved Teutonic horde,
Who’re showing signs of being bored.
Ten weeks it is since first they said
The Prussian brutes had had enough,
And those of them who were not dead
Were sick men, nude and never fed,
AVhom officers must kick and cuff
To force them make a sort of bluff.
And still the fight is on, I find,
And France is dyed a beastly red,
And Kaiser Bill is still inclined
To pit his lame, and sick, and blind
Against our boys. It must be said
These Germans fight well when they’re dead !
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


1
-
... %
::
Sill
Q,
'i
i
VWUTARY MIGHT
V-
m
■
im
iu
BMB
■
■
■HH ■ $1
M
Ft
: U
Hffill
■
:
I I
I
a
■
a
■
■ : :
m
8 :
■
■III 1
:
M
I
■■
:K
U
HT
m !(a
R'*
iT*
M/i-
-
-1
■
mm
■
1
ms
I|§
mm
m
nn
HH
■
HI
•" >■
: ■
■
■
mmsm
Hi ■
■
!H
l:"''
■B
1
:
\
m
IMmI
HH
/
H
*»
w
&
>■;
■
a*
Bm
f
:
M
H
1
1
\
S
BURNING- THE CANDLE AT BOTH ENDS.


Martin’s Pills are sold by TV. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin. Chemist, Southampton.*
M
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
M
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. -
M
dutw
Vuunw
||sg|
£<6«6<jry/t,
I
yt*
~/-oui MxfiuoL «<j?
nojufri 'sv&'tt
THE “TOP NOTCH” SCOTCH.
KING GEORGE IV.
WHISKY.
A UNIFORM STANDARD of QUALITY.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Outcast”: I fell into a Papuan village
the other day, just as a black brother had departed to
that happy land where there is plenty of tucker and
uo work. The din was awful. Everybody commenced
to cry and Wail and scream in a more or less con-
ventional manner, the manner varying with the rela-
tionship. But grief didn’t prevent one or two of the
loudest mourners knocking off their solos to discuss
the price of copra with me. Fresh batches of lady
mourners, upon arriving in the village, began to throw
themselves about and knock their heads with large
lumps of rock, while the gashing of flesh with knives
and flints was a recognised part of the entertainment.
Which reminds me that I once saw an individual keen
on anthropological research dash into a village with
his camera when the death ceremonies were going on.
Things not going to his liking, owing to the
mourners not cutting themselves about sufficiently,
he frantically urged them to put more ginger into the
proceedings. “Gut your tongues! Out your cheeks,
you —! Go on, cut your tongues! Put them out
and cut them!” I forget if he got his pictures.
“J.M.M.”: T agree with “R.J.8.” (B.
12/11/’l4) when he says that “the average drover-
knows that a pampered and well-fed dog is practically
useless.” But drovers above the average know that
a sheep-dog does better on a regular diet, plus good
treatment, like all other creatures. The “average”
sheep-drover knows that his dog is such a good-
natured cuss that he will do wonders when starved
and neglected. But when the naturally-honest dog,
starved into the crooked way, steals a bit of mutton,
gorges himself and finds the unaccustomed burden
too much for him, his very average master concludes
that tucker is not good for the dog. A sheep-dog is
naturally a moderate eater, and will not render him-
self useless by over-eating unless starved into it. 1
think I have met “R.J.8.” before. I was camped on
the reserve near his place, with a few million
weaners, one cold, wet night last winter, when lie
emerged through the rain and securely lashed up his
sliprails with wire, to prevent me from “duffing” my
horse into his barren paddock. I was tethering my
dogs on the driest spots I could find, and he told me
that I should tie them all in the wettest places, and
give them no supper, and they would then keep awake
and yelp all night. Otherwise they would sleep and I
would be looking for sheep next day. Finding his
fiendish advice ignored, he mooched off muttering some-
thing about “suburban bushmen.” I then took my
horse and jumped him over the fence into the cultiva-
tion patch, knowing 1 could rely on one of my “pam-
pered” dogs to bring him out in the morning long
before “R.J.8.” had said his morning curse.
“Pick”: When the bushman goes off to
yakker in the big timber he does not, as a usual
thing, carry a medical outfit. Unless the accident is
serious he stops only long enough to curse his luck,
and light his pipe. For the paralysing effects of
the nettle-tree sting lie simply rubs in the sap of
the tree that bit him, plus a salve from the inner
hark of any eucalypt. To stop bleeding he will
chew the bluish-grey ieaves of a small herb that
grows in the vicinity of decaying logs and apply
the pulp. I have seen the blood pouring from a
ghastly axe-gash in a man’s leg stopped in a few
minutes after its application. When my bush
mate sawed off a few of his fingers with a cross-
cut saw and fainted, one of the bush gang revived
him by pouring a billycan of sweetened tea over his
head. The energy with which the wounded man
blasphemed over the waste of tea 1 shall never
forget.
-K * * #
“Croson” : The Victorian wheat-cocky isn’t
the worst-off man on the land this season, poor even
as his luck has been. The fruitgrower has had a
much more dreadful time. First the war happened,
and the consequent increase of unemployment largely .
decreased the demand for fruit, the same being still
largely regarded in Australia as a luxury. Then
the dry spell came along; this not only further re-
stricted the demand, but it brought a pest known
as flic “thrip,” Which abomination pervades every
green thing, or rather the blossom thereof, from
carnations to pumpkins. The thrip got on to the
fruit blossoms and wiped out the bulk of Victoria’s
fruit crop, excepting only early cherries and peaches.
After that, on the night of October 15, following
some weeks of unusually warm weather, the sharpest
of frosts swept up from the coast to the Divide, and
nipped what remained of the fruitgrowers’ cherries and
peaches, and young apples, pears, plum and quinces.
Also it cut a year or two’s growth off most of his
lemons. So it is doubtful if the State’s fruit crop
will come to a tenth of the ordinary, and I know
dozens of men who won’t take LlO off 10-acre
orchards. These chaps are not asking State aid
in the shape of seed wheat, lowered freights, deferred
payments and so forth ; but they are looking to the
Government to cut out the frills and spend every
available penny on the useful and indirectly-reproduc-
tive work of making good roads all over the State.
ON THE SAFE SIDE.
OVERSEER : “No luck, eh ! Why, if you had
gone,over towards the boundary fence you
would have got plenty of rabbits .”
NEWCHOM ENGLISHMAN (visitor): “I did
go, and I saw five or six rabbits, but 1
would not fire at them."
OVERSEER: “Wouldn't fire! Why?”
NEWCHUM ENGLISHMAN : "Well, I noticed
them frisking through from the adjoining
property, and I could not be certain whose
they were.”
IT DOESN’T PROVIDE THE PEER.
DISMAL JONES: “Ah, Billy, it's sorrer wot drives a man to drink."
BILLY : “Yes, ole man, but the wust of it is the drink ain't never there."
“Boi’ouiii”: The magnificent karri forests
in from Cape been win harbor some fine specimens
of eagles. 1 brought one to earth t’other day, and
found that it measured 9ft. 7in. from tip to tip
(wings). By the way, why are these birds invari-
ably referred to as eaglehawks ? They are true and
genuine eagles. But I’m forgetting. Of course, Aus-
tralia can’t produce real eagles any more than it can
make boots, or dredges, or any other hammer-and-
nails thing.
“H. 5.0.” : The resolve of the Queensland
Minister for Agriculture to stop the deterioration of
the horse in the North is long overdue. Nearly 20
years ago the late .1. P. Bell (afterwards Minister for
Lands and Speaker) began a long-continued but fruit-
less effort to bring about the same desirable result.
His idea was to impose a thump-
ing stallion tax, and thereby cut
out the hundreds of weeds main-
tained chiefly by the small cockies
of Southern Queensland. Though
lie introduced a Bill to that effect
more than once the cockj r 's agents
invariably managed to strangle it.
The conversion of cattle country
to sheep-runs has been another
cause of the falling-off of the
horse standard. Any old beast
is good enough to work sheep
with. Then, again, Indian and
Jap. buyers have fairly skinned
the country of the better sorts in
the last 10 or 15 years. Big
sales like those held by the late
Bob Russell at Charters Towers
and by others at Charleville were
eye-openers to the uninitiated by
reason of the big attendances of
foreign buyers and the prices they
paid for good steeds. The breed-
ing station run by the Queensland
Police Department has, however, shown the success
of careful mate-selection since Bell’s day, so the
modern reformer should find his. job a lot easier.
» *• * *
“A.V.L.”: I’m upholding the Australian
fantail as the friendliest feathered bloke. He and
the missus have just reared a family in our pepper-
tree and have already encouraged the three kids to
sit on the edges of the hammock wherein I read the
Beatitudes, etc., on Sundays. Meanwhile the old pot
and pan scout for tucker among the fruit trees. In-
cidentally, the nest was partly lined from the back
of the Persian cat who made mincemeat of any bird
that came within cooee.
“A.11.A.”: When you are next asked what
liqueur you will have murmur “A eucalyptus.” You
may not get it this year, but later on you will.
On his recent European tour N.S.W. Minister Car-
michael (lid more than languish before the Venus de
Milo. In Italy lie drank a liqueur more beneficent
than Benedictine —and it was made by Trappist
monks out of gum-leaves! Whereupon Carmichael
was led to moralise upon the sad plight of Billjim,
lying thirsty in the shade of a gum in the backblocks,
ignorant of the fact that within his reach “there He
an untapped fount of golden dreams.” Carmichael
should have abducted one of those Trappist monks
and set him down anywhere in our vast eucalyptus
vineyard to distil that divine liqueur. Probably,
however, it will be found that the oils out of which
this delectable liqueur is made were first obtained
by the chemists attached to the N.S.W. Government
Laboratory. Being business men, instead of bou-
vivants, they utilised these oils for extracting ores,
not jim-jams. But now that Billjim knows what he
is missing, there will probably be signs of activity,
and possibly of inebriety, in the laboratories of our
Government chemists.
* * * *
“S.”: The passing of Lord Roberts re-
minds me of the painful confession of a grey Aus-
tralian who returned from his travels three or four
years ago. “In London I put up at the Cecil,” he
said. “There was a particularly fine Irish constable
on a corner handy, who saluted me most ceremoni-
ously as I passed. Once he said: ‘Good-day t’ yeh,
me Lor-rd!’ 1 stopped. ‘Whom do you take me for,
my man V said 1. ‘Who,’ said he, ‘but the fine
man ye are, sor —Lord Roberts, sor. Don't I know
you well !’ Of course I was gratified. I may have
tipped that copper subsequently several times. Then
Carter came to the Cecil. You know Carter ? Tall
chap, black mo., stern eye. One afternoon he said
to me: ‘Have you noticed that policeman down on
the corner, Fine fellow! I often sling him a
shilling. Curiously enough, he thinks I’m Kit-
chener. Always salutes me!’ That set me thinking
hard. Later, another Australian came along. He
also confided in me about the very fine constable on
the corner. It seemed the constable mistook him
for Cyril Maude, the celebrated beauty actor. He,
too, was in the habit of tipping the attractive and
winning peeler. Next time I passed I had a word
with the blarneying blackguard. ‘Sure, there’s no
har-rm done at all, none in the wor-rld, sor,’ said
he. ‘Yer the livin’ image iv Bobs, sor, ’n’ ’twas a
legitimit error on me par-rt. But wid the others—
well, sor, I find thim Australians from the Cizzle
like t’ be mishtook for the great ’n’ the good, ’n’ a
man must live.’ ”
THE CAMEL IN THE TENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I was at the Roaring Gimlet in the days of long ago,
At C'oolgardie, and at Hannan’s, in June of Ninety-
three,
When fifty feet was the deepest shaft, and ten feet
was “below,”
And the best men went for the Furthest Out, for
gold and liberty ;
And at a show near the Gnarlbine Rocks the days
were glad and long,
And the sunsets were all blood-and gold, and the
men were tired and spent
And glad to dream of the four-ounce reef which never
can go wrong;
At midnight we awoke to find the camel in the tent.
Considered even as a Hump he was not Rose Bouquet,
Nor violets, nor Jockey Club, nor Sweet Opoponax,
He was not ever popular, but at the close of day
His smell, like smoke to Heaven, rose and signalled
for an axe.'
Roger and Gallet knew him not; and Piesse and
Lubin were
As strange as Rimmels to him, or as Porterhouse
in Lent,
Water of Florida, or sweeter scent of lavender.
The smell of ancient sins arrived with the camel In
the tent.
Ilis hump insanitary cut the moorings at the door;
His anaconda neck explored the blankets oil the
hunk ;
His awful breath breathed on the man who’d had the
“just one more,”
And he woke to find the Nemesis that hunts the
midnight drunk.
He smote the camel on the nose, which made it rise
and go;
But forward! And as it arose the ridge-pole sagged
and bent.
When it stood up the tent collapsed and fell on us
below;
And we got the strength of letting a rogue camel
in the tent.
There’s a camel-cow named Wilhelm, and his camp is
on the Rhine,
And he leaves his lines at midnight, and he samples
tents in France.
He’s no sweeter than the camel which in ’Ninety-
four was mine,
And a waster as a freighter—he can only roar and
prance.
He came to Leon Belgium, who was sleeping peace-
fully—
The peasant of old Quatre Bra?, the artisan of
Ghent—-
Expecting William Hump to he still pegged down on
the Spree.
And Belgium woke to slaughter with the camel in
the tent.
lie wrecked the tent of Belgium, and disaster fol-
lowed grim—
The canvas smothered sleepers, and the ridge-pole
fractured heads.
But heavy is the punishment that yet shall come to
him,
Who with his hump destroyed the sleeping people
in their beds.
He prowled across the children’s bunks, he burst the
tucker-bag;
A brand-new twelve-by-ten he lias in all ways torn
and rent;
He rolled on Belgium’s trousers till they’re but a
dirty rag.
A frightful whacking’s coming to that camel in
the tent.
When we’d catch a camel in the tent in Eighteen-
ninety-four,
With shovels and pick-handles we would deal out
stoush to him.
Caught in the folds of canvas, he was smashed upon
the jaw,
And on his tail, and hump, and neck, the blows
were hard and grim.
So, when the war is at its end, let William suffer so.
Nor release him from the canvas till lie’s had his
punishment,
With a tattoo of pick-handles nigh to where his tail
does grow,
To scare him ever more off playing camels in the
tent.
VICTORIA.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH-
-360=6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH-
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
810-SHOWMEN!
THERE’S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.’’ Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George
Street. Sydney. se
Exclusive Agent
8
Wanted
to sell our portrait
enlargements, picture
frames and novelties
in art goods. Excellent
opportunity for any
Merchant or Agent
The sale of this
line of goods is very re-
numerative. You may
charge good prices for our
portrait novelties. No ex-
perience required. We will send free of charge, our
book of Instructions and general catalog. We furnish
bank references. 20 successful years In the export
business is our best reference.
Consolidated Portrait & Frame Co.
1029-rD-lQ W. Adams St., Chicago. 111.. U. S. A.
M
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in the
1.0. A.
I The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed... 165,000
Paid-up 82,500
Branches in every State.
Agents wanted. Write for, particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager.
r/tKta/Wf umo
45'
TBIPLtV
EHASCUIATOR.
•nis'SAFETY"
Emasculator
does away with all
risk of bleeding.
Postage Free— 4s/*
My “Hints on Castrating ”
enable any man used to Stock
to cut with the “Safety”
either Colts, Bulls, Bams, or
Boars.
Other patterns of
Emaseuiatore from
30/- to 50/
Zoeller’s “Handy”
Castrating Knife, 3/6
is a lovely bit of Steel.
Carl Zoeller,
i 246 Queen St.,
BRISBANE, Q.
Send for complete
Veterinary Catalog.
It’s FREE
“C.8.A.”: Oh, yes, Germany might per-
haps command one snake expert (B. 19/11/’l4). I
a isited a country show on the Peninsula (South
Aus.) lately, where one Hensenroeder had a stand.
I parted up ray shilling and walked in, and no pre-
vious sight or experience came quite up to this one.
Hensenroeder walked about a small wire-netting
enclosure and handled any one of some 70 or SO
snakes of all breeds as though they were kittens.
There were tiger, black and brown, the harmless
carpet, and, above all, the square-dinkum death
adder. He put the heads of several of these in his
mouth. A female in the audience Suggested audibly
that the fangs were faked. To remove all doubt
Hensenroeder introduced a fair-sized rabbit and
allowed one of his toys to bite it. The rabbit
passed out in just lmin. 30see. The day following
I was with the mob making for the boat back to the
city when a brown snake 4ft. 6in. long was sighted.
It showed fight and put up a bit of a flutter ; but
Hensenroeder had it in his hand within half a
minute and its head was in his mouth before half
an hour had elapsed. He is no crank, but a man of
good education. The rest of his family are profes-
,nen in tlle Teutonic village of Tanunda
* * * *
Billy Blue”: The chief and most success-
ful opponents of a labor award in their particular
industry to-day are the farmers and settlers; yet
the first labor award in Australia was made at the
request of their predecessors. On March 10, 1797,
Governor Hunter issued a proclamation setting out
that, at the particular wish of the settlers in every
part of the colony, “who had long suffered themselves
to be shamefully imposed on by such people as they
have had occasion to hire to perform the various
kinds of labor which their farms required,” rates
had been fixed which he considered fair and equit-
able. These included prices for clearing, burning-off,
chipping (there was no ploughing in those benighted
times), hilling, reaping, threshing, etc. Yearly
wages, with board, were fixed at £lO. Wages per
week were to be 65., with provisions consisting of
41b. of salt or 61b. of fresh pork, 211 b. of wheat and
vegetables. A day’s wage was a shilling with board
or half a crown without it.
THE HORRORS
OF WAR.
“Great 'Eavens,
" Enery! The 'or-
rors of war is bein'
Aviv 'owe to us."
“Marloo” : If you hear of a N.S.W. North
Coast Shire president being charged with the murder
of a country newspaper editor, you’ll know it’s be-
cause of this notice in the Coif’s Harbor sheet:—
The big holes on the Woolgoolga-road are closed to
net fishing, by order of the Inspector.
WILHELM’S SYMPTOMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Your case is complicated, Bill—
You need a specialist.
One symptom you’re displaying stiP
Is Mailed Fist.
Another sign of trouble, Bill,
That’s probably inbred,
Requires a drastic leaden pill—
It’s Swelled Head.
Accept a word of warning, Bill,
Or you’ll become a wreck.
I recognise beneath your frill
A Stiff Neck.
It’s plain to all the neighbors, Bill,
You’re failing week by week.
You 11 soon be past the surgeon’s skill
Through D—d Cheek !
You must, be very careful, Bill;
The draught you’re sitting in
May even give a fatal chill
To Thick Skin. • /
Don't take too many chances, Bill,
Don’t be so indiscreet,
Or shortly you’ll be very ill
With Cold Feet.
QUEENSLAND.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.
Hary Lacy’s Numerous Suitors.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I ASKED if I might be directed to where
Hennessy was living, and Flynn seized
the opening. “Yeh might,” he said,
“then agin yeh might not, bein’ it’s Tim
Ilennessy without a ‘e’ in the end yer axin’
fer.”
It was Tim Hennessy I wanted. “And
why may I not know where he’s living V” I
asked.
u, * ei \ divil a why,” responded Flynn,
beyond the raysonable probabilitv that'he’s
iiym nowhere at all this blessed min-ute.
±is like this, s’posin’ yer dishposed fer the
hearin iv ut all. Tim was wan iv the
shooters ter the hand n’ affections ’n’ them
collaterals the lawyers spake of; also the
sivin-roomed house V bit land iv Marv Ann
Lacy, widdy woman, 30 years ’n’ ' more
maybe, nivir a year or two matterin’ at all
HIS BAD POINTS.
HE: “So you cast me off because you think I'm forward?”
SHE: "Yes. I here s nothing modest about you except your salary."
wid a fine, sthrappin’, round woman the like
iv Mary Ann Lacy.
“There is wan ’n’ will be other shooters
fer the fir-m hand iv the red widdy. Wan in
contention wid Tim Hennessy was Con
Dwyer, ’n’ wan more, a disprit man, most
impatient and handy wid his foot, was
Jimsy Mullen.
“ ’Twas bad enough whin the rivals was
meetin’ casual afther hours be pubs, or in
the ordin’ry way iv hoshpitality ’n’ soeial
discoorse; but the widdy, bein’ a fine wan
fer bizness, n’ a gr-reat seizer iv oppor-
chewnity, shtarts a boordin’-house, her
property bein’ convaynyntly situate in the
township beyant.
“Herself sez t’ me, sez she: ‘Was a
woman iver so teased ’n’ throubled wid
shooters ’n’ not take advantage iv the same
t’ shtart a shmall board ’n’ lodgin’s?’ she
sez. ‘Here’s thim in pursoot iv me,’ she sez,
‘would fill a big house at twinty shillin’ the
week, wasbin’ exthra, the ivry man iv him
single ’n’ disconnect. Thin fer wlioi not
shtart a board ’n’ lodgin’ iv me own, ’n’
hav thim all under wan roof, where they’ll
not be botherin’ ’n’ inthruptin’ me wid
callin’ day n’ night, ’n’ yet be a shmall soorce
iv profit to a poor body left lone ’n’ two
childer t’ ate ’n’ kape?’
“I give the notion me cordyl support, an’
Mary Lacy shtarted her boar-rd ’n’ lodgin’,
wid a man ’r more b’ iv’r.v room, ’n’ Con-
nelly t’ slape be the wood-house, so gr-reat
’n’ urgent is the demand fer lodgin’s wid the
widdy Lacy. They’re all more T less —more
mainly—shooters ’n’ eanoodlers, specially
Tim Hennessy, ’n’ Con Dwyer, ’n’ Jimsy
Mullen, ’n’ more perticular ’n’ exthra special
Mister Jimsy Mullen.
“Jimsy is a fighter be habit ’n’ natural
inclination, ’n’ ’tis his custom, whin he sus-
uects another iv affectionit symptoms ’n’ ten-
dencies towar-rds the lady favored wid his
regar-rd, t’ dale wid the inthruder be hand.
That failin’, he have no compunction, ye’d
notice, t’ dalin’ wid him be foot, ’n’ Jimsy
have a foot would be accepted in milit’ry
circles as a formidable implement V muni-
tion iv war-r.
“The widdy Lacy, havin’ her shooters in
the house ’n’ adjacent ’n’ accessible, is no
longer sore throubled wifi callers, but ’twill
not tirribly astonish yeh t’ hear there’s other
prevarications ’n’ dishturbances makin’ thim-
silves imminent. ’Tis on’y t’ be expected
in a way that whin a man iv the blood ’n’
timper’ment iv Jimsy Mullen finds another
gintleman boar-rder sittin’ adjacent wid the
widdy, holdin’ on be her hand, ’n’ adthressin’
her in a sthrain more ’r less tender, he will
be takin’ action ditrimental to the fur-rni-
ture ’n’. fixin’s, not t’ mention the gintleman
in quistion.
“Whin Jimsy cot Tim Hennessy as afore-
said, sez he, ‘What’s the manin’ iv this all?’
sez he. ‘l’ll not have ut,’ he sez, ’n’ wid
that he took lip a plate, ’n’ he smashed it
right royal t’ imphasise his remar-rk.
“ ‘ ’ X ’ ?'^ at is ut ye’ll not have, Misther
1 , l . , s i r •’ sez Tim, po-lite ez you please.
“ ‘l’ll not have yeh obsthructin’ the widdy
Lacy in the ixecution iv her-r domestic
juties,’ sez Jimsy, whackin’ down wan more
chiny plate.
“‘Will yeh not?’ sez Tim. ‘Maybe yeh
know a way iv shtoppin’ ut all conthrary t’
the wishes iv the widdy, ’n’ opposed t’ the
desires n intentions iv the gintleman con-
carned ?
“ ‘I do know a way,’ sez Jimsv, ‘ ’n’ I’ll
proceed t’ diminsthrate the same.’"
“He did, V, twixt the pair iv us. he
gr-reatly throubled Tim wid his attack. He’s
a ,°! aa lv sHmall compunction whin roused
n bed ez soon knoqk the block clane frim
yeh wid a handy table-leg az kick the slats
put iv yeh wid his foot, accordin’ t’ the rules
vv modern war-r. In tin minutes ’r less
Tim is ready fer bed.
. The next wan t.’ fall into ar-r-gument wid
Hennessy is Con Dwyer. Con, seein’ Tim
anectionately ingaged pointin’ out shtars t’
the widdy troo the parlor windy, fetches him
J Clck from aft tha t’s manifestly
con thi ary t decor-rum’n’ the dacent orderly
Christyin fightin . Then Con ’n’ Tim in-
dulges _ thimsilves in a general ingage-
ment in the parlor, doin’ damages to
H f’s e^ nt T- 1V three , pounds thr ee shil-
•m S ’ ,! x- , m . was hnrted wid a globe
f f go !f hsh, n’ Con tuck damage from
a fam Jy albium size iv a gin case, hittin’
lu^* st the chin ’n’ the thir-rd division.
Atther this there s siv’ral fights at meal« ■
‘n’ skirmishes, ’n’ thraps. V sorties i“com-
mon in the bidrooms. till Mary Ann j,acv
puts down her foot wid a determined mind
JNo more iv ut!’ sez she. ‘Will veil
have me poor house down about me ears roof
n chimbly wid yer riotin’ ’n’ fightin’ ’n’
niortya onpleasantness?’ sez she. ‘There’ll
be no more iv the like in anny house iv mine.
’Tis unmannerly ’n’ indacent, ’n’ fer the
future all fightin’ in the house will take
place in the gar-r-den, please God, ’n’ be
orther iv the proprietress.’
“Mary Lacy have a sthrong mind, ’n’
she’s more than common nimble ’n’ ambi-
dexthrous wid a poker, so after that there’s
portion iv the gar-r-den set apart fer scraps
’n’ diversions be mutyil agreemint; ’n’
almost enny evenin’ ye’d care t’ call round
y’d see a boar-rder ’r two ’r three man-
handlin’ another be the roses ’n’ the jonquils
fer the love iv Mary.
“Bit ’tis Tim Hennessy is the busy man.
maybe fer the rayson the widdy seems t’
favor him wid the carvin’ ’n’ the helpin’ iv
the meals, ’n’ wid givin’ him more iv her
company ’n’ confidence than’s ginerally con-
sidered fair ’n’ equitable. When he’s not
got a fight ’r two on wid Con Dwyer he’s
engaged two deep wid Jimsy Mullen, ’n’
iv’ry fight was a spictacular success iv more
than ordin’ry merit. I seen tin iv them me-
silf, all free, ’n’ niver begrudged a pinny ut
cost me.
“Shtill ’twas har-rd on Tim. Con ’n’
Jimsy never fit wid aych other, but always
wid him, lavin’ him niver a chance to recover
wan mill before lie’s jue fer annother. This
state iv things throubled him, V he put ut
to th’ widdw
“ ‘Lave ut t’ me,’ she sez. ‘ ’n’ ye’ll have
Mullen er Dwyer before the two days go,’
she sez.
“The wily widdy woman wor-rked ut be
showin’ a sudden t ’n’ onexpect preference fer
Misther Dwyer, wid the result that, whin
Tim Hennessy kim off afthernoon shift
Tuesday he dthropped on the purtiest fight,
ever ’tween Con Dwyer ’n’ Jimsy Mullen,
ragin’ ’n’ ragin’ in the gar-rden iv Mary
Ann Lacy.
“ ‘lliven have hear-rd me prayers,’ sez
Tim, ’n’ he dthropped all, ’n’ wint fer the
pair iv them, they bein’ both sick ’u’ beaten
be this.
“ ‘Saints be praised,’ Tim sez, sez he, ‘the
supplications iv the righteous is not t’rown
away !’ ’N’ he punches Con wan would kill
a horse. The Lor-rd have delivered me
inemy into me hands,’ sez Hennessy, ’n’ he
rams a kick into Jimsy’s ribs that is hear-rd
in Corcoran’s bar-r wan mile away. 'Fer
what we’re about t’ receive saints make us
thruly thankful,’ sez Tim, ’n’ he gives his
inemies ut all back. He paid them both
double ’n a bit fer weight, ’n’ whin he’d
done he went in fer the widdy.
“ ‘There, ma’m.’ sez Tim, leadin’ her t’
the gar-r-den ’n’ pointin’ proud where Dwyer
is sittin’ reclinin’ again the fince, utterly
devastate, ’n’ where Jimsy Mullen lies out-
snread be the pansy bed too disthressed in
mind ’n’ body t’ give hade t’ the fact his
nose is bleedin’ copyis in the left ear iv him.
‘There, ma’m,’ Tim sez. ‘alone I done ut!’
sez he.
“ ‘ ’Tis a fine performance, Timmy, me
boy,’ sez the widdy.
“ ‘ ’N’ most complete,’ sez Tim. ‘I won-
der I never done it before. But the per-
formance, ma’m, such ez ut is, was all fer
the love iv you.’
“ 'Thankin’ you kindly, Misther Hennessy,’
sez the widdy.
“ ‘Lookin’ on thim prosthrate min, ma’m,’
sez Tim, ‘ ’n’ judgin’ dispassionit, remem-
b’rin’ ’tis the wor-rk iv me own hands,
would yeh be thinkin’ you could thrust your
destinies ’n’ fortyins to me now?’
“‘’Tis a fine man yiv proved yerself,
Timmy, ’n’ a sthrong. ’n’ maybe I cud do
worse.’
“Wid this Con was pullin’ himself up to
the fence, ’n’ Jimsy was tur-r-rnin’ over ’n’
mutterin’ in his shleep.
“ ‘Will yeh love me dear ’n’ continyis fer
this dav’s wor-rk, Mary Ann Lacy?’ s z
Tim.
“ ‘Maybe I will that,’ sez the widdy. ‘l’ll
think iv ut.’
“ ‘Would yeh have me bate thim a trifle
more t’ dispel yer doubts?’
“‘I would not, Hennessy. I’m con-
vinced.’
“Now Dwyer was up, and Mullen on his
knees. They heard some more kind wor-rds
frim Mary Ann t’ Tim Hennessy, the bould
Colonyil boy. ’n’ Dwyer rolled et Tim t’
Tim’s great surprise, ’n’ hit him, ’n’ while
they was locked Jimsy riz up ’n’ hit him.
“The fight was all over agin, but this time
’twas not Con agin Jimsy, ’n’ Jimsy agin
Con, ’n’ Tim ’n’ the Devil agin the pair iv
thim. but Con, Jimsy ’n’ the Devil allies
agin Tim, ’n’ never befure was so gr-reat an
extint iv gar-rden ground kicked up in
the coorse iv a brave contist. So much -was
beat up, ’n’ ’twas beat so thorough, Mary
Lacy put a settin’ iv spuds to ut that very
next day.
“Yer wantin’ t’ know where Tim Hen-
nessy—widout the V in the end iv him —’s
livin’? If he’s livin’ at all this dav, ye’ll
find him in the hoshoital to the citv, B
war-r-rd, next the dead-house t’ the left.
“The widdy? She’s t’ wed with Daly, a
rare peaceable man would take the trimin-
dis action fer damage agin yeh did yeh so
much ez raise wan finger to him.”
EDDYSON.


THE INVASION AND THE WALL.
The United States, observing the suspended enterprise of the Australian people, makes haste to profit by the inaction of a community that folds its arms and quietly wnits for the war to stop before resaming business,-Newapaper comment.


The coming Tourist Season should
find you equipped with a
nOSGIEL
RUG.
Admittedly the Handsomest,
Warmest and Cosiest Travelling
Rug in the World!
Sold at all
the Best Shops.
[1
BOATER?
Your Hat
Should be correct as to Style. Shape. Weight
and Price. WOODROWS’ HATS till the
bill and meet all requirements.
When you ask for a WOODROW HAT
there is a sense of satisfaction in knowing
that you are buying an article which repre-
sents full value, and maintains its wearing
qualities to the end. •
YOUR Hatter Stocks WOODROWS’.
X
7'J
r v
Pc
*
si
v y
NABOB BOOT PASTE..
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES,
LEWIS A WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney.
A
EVERY DAY
more people are proving thaf
I.IV x
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub—lengthens the
life of the clothes.
m
r
V I .
/»vl </.<7 »
fra)
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
Lever brothers
LIMITED. SYDNEV.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
WILLIE KIDNION, ex- Premier or
Queensland.
Archbishop O’Reilly, of Adelaide, has had
another birthday, much to his own surprise.
Though only in his G!)th year, he is so bowed
down by infirmities that Prior Spence was
lately appointed Coadjutor-Archbishop to
share his labors. No more versatile man
has worn a shovel hat in Australia, and
none has been more broad-minded and toler-
ant. Born in the military barracks in Kil-
kenny, ho is proud of the fact that for gen-
erations the O’Reillys have been soldiers.
Having had a passionate interest in war
history from his youth up, the Archbishop
has absorbed pretty well everything that
has been written in that line, and his pro-
digious memory has retained the bulk of it.
The Maoriland Supreme Court consists
of eight Judges, and seven of them have sons
on military duty, lmung Stout and Hosking
are in Samoa ; Chapman is in the firing line
somewhere; Dennistoun is with King
Edward’s Horse; Sim, who went as a cor-
poral to Samoa, is now Commissioner of
Police there ; one Stringer is in the R.A.M.C.
and another in the M.L. main expedi-
tionary force; and Cooper is in the aviation
branch. At this point three cheers seem due
to somebody.
It was in the early ’9o’s that “Butty”
McMahon, who died at Sydney last w r eek,
became known to everybody in Sydney. In
1891, at the conclusion of Australia’s biggest
strike, the N.S.AV. Government appointed an
Arbitration and Conciliation Committee, with
the idea of clearing up things a little. This
committee consisted of McMahon, “Jimmy”
Wilson (now M.L.C.) and Cole (also a
carrier). They were to get 80s. a sitting,
but they never drew a penny. The com-
mittee had mo powers, and nobody troubled
it. Still, it was the first thing of its sort
established in the Ma State.
A man who seems to live and eat and
sleep in the cable page of the daily paper is
President Wilson, of the U.S. He is the
mildest and most preachy lie-female in high
office. Above all he wants to explain that
the U.S., with its disordered army of about
90,000 men. won’t burst into the fray. Wil-
son reached the limit when he explained
unofficially, and in his private capacity, to
Uncle Sam’s representatives abroad, his
disapproval of the German habit of dropping
bombs from the sky upon unfortified cities.
He didn’t do even that small thing officially
—perhaps fearing that the U.S. might be
dragged into bloodstained conflict with
Monte Carlo or Bokhara or Jupiter. Spain,
Italy, Brazil, Argentina and Chile are also
keeping out of the war, but their rulers
have sense enough not to protest unofficially
when tin* German drops a bomb on a bee-
hive. They recognise that this is no time
for preachments, and that a chunk of
Christian advice is of little value unless
there is a gun behind it.
Died last week the most ancient of the
ancient mariners of Sydney, Captain Alex-
ander Sinclair Murray, aged 87. After
many years spent in coastal and river trade
in North America he bought the barque
Nymph, and with her came to Melbourne in
1857. The Murray River trade attracted
him, and, building suitable steamers, he
commenced running from the Mouth to
Echuca. After four years lie went to
Maoriland and built two vessels for trading
on the Clutha. Returning to Sydney he
built a stern-wheel steamer, and in contract
with the Government made her the connect-
ing link between the temporary terminus of
the Northern Railway at Peat’s Ferry and
the other end at Mullet Creek, pending the
erection of the Hawkesbury Bridge. When
the bridge was opened for traffic the Captain
used his boat to carry excursionists on the
Hawkesbury, and kept his bread buttered
that way until six or eight years ago.
“W.D.’s” picture of a poor crowd: —
The cables say that Robert Ross is prosecuting
Lord Alfred Douglas for criminal libel at the Old
Bailey. The prosecution, which is not for criminal
libel at all, is really the remnant of Ross’s old
prosecution of Crosland (“The Unspeakable Scot”)
and Douglas for “conspiring together to falsely
accuse” him of a certain crime. Douglas bolted to
Boulogne, and as the conspiracy charged was not
extraditable he looked like staying there for life.
But war broke out, and he, with a horde of other
humans, sheltered in England. Douglas and his friends,
who are the fag-end of the old Oscar Wilde crowd, are
eternally squabbling. If, as is generally the ease,
they have no cash to run a law-fight with they meet
in the Cafe Royal to drink and assault each other.
These rows result in police-court litigation, which is
cheap. If a bit of money comes in, they stage a
disturbance at the Old Bailey, and London stops work
to look on. On the rare occasions when a good deal
of cash comes their way, the ring is set up in the
much more costly High Court. They always get the
entire poster in that day’s evening papers. The pre-
sent scrap is a waste of money from their point of
view, as the war will distract public attention ; but
they can’t postpone it till the Allies reach Berlin,
since criminal ..charges are not adjournable. The
only individual of any interest with whom they ever
come in touch is Cecil Hayes, the counsel who always
appears for them. He is a brilliant, merrily-humor-
ous little Irishman. Amongst criminals he is
immensely popular as a defender because he will
always put up a good fight. He is one of the few
men who have taken on Bob Sievier and outed him —
though this was on the hustings. In criminal courts
he is willing to engage in a row with anyone. If
counsel for the Crown won’t oblige him he takes on
the Judge. His motto as a defender is: “Put up a
good fight, and you’ll send ’em away happy, me
boy, even if it’s only in a prison van.”
AT THE GATE.
THE QUESTIONER : "Hullo, I‘ter! Why all
the preparations? ”
ST. PETER: "Well, if some Germans hap-
penened along it might be necessary to
protect ourselves."
Very few soldiers have been allowed to
prove themselves deplorable generals twice
over; but the chance has come to the Ger-
man Crown Prince in the present sprawling
war. After lie had gone broke somewhere
near Verdun, he appears to have acquired a
new command in the path of the Bear. The
usual thing happened, and, when last heard
of, his army was advancing backward at top
speed, with the triumphant Bear clawing
its coat-tails. The Russians’ capture of the
Crown Prince’s horses and personal effects
looks as if they had slily avoided capturing
the brilliant incompetent himself. A fool in
the hand isn’t worth two in the enemy’s
bush. You can’t have too many fools in the
enemy’s bush.
The discursive “Lud” :
Roberts lies beside Nelson and Wellington. Nelson
said: “A peerage or Westminster Abbey.” The autho-
rities concluded that the Abbey was too much
thronged with nobodies. In St. Paul's he is a blaze,
there being few other brilliants near. His rich tomb
was sculptured by llovezzano to the order of Cardinal
Wolsey. Henry VIII. seized it, but nobody knows how
it got round to Nelson. The ridiculously gorgeous
Wellington funeral ear is in the crypt. There would
have been a more outrageous circus coach for Queen
Victoria if she hadn’t said: “Let me go on a gun
carriage, as a soldier’s daughter.” After that,
Edward was carried on a gun-carriage, too, though he
was no soldier, and didn’t care a hang how he went.
Robert Nall, who suddenly retired last week
from the news editorship of the Sydney Tele-
graph, had been 30 years in the service of
the paper, and gave it his ungrudging best
in the most difficult position on the staff. A
news-editor is the man whom employers
(frequently successful traders) keep on the
premises to advise, the day after the paper
has been “scooped,” what should have been
done to avoid “this regrettable mishap.”
Also, the youngest gentleman-reporter
always marvels how he (the news-editor)
keeps his job. Little thanks or gratitude
comes the news-editor’s way, as .a rule ; but
Robert Nali leaves his old address with a
heavy load of respect and good feeling. Ilis
chair is now occupied by H. J. Taperell,
who for many years was on the paper’s
leader-writing staff. He started a long trail
on the Inky Way in Maoriland.
Excluding Governor
King’s son, Philip
Parker, who was born
at Norfolk Island,
Ernest Gaunt is the
first home-grown Aus-
tralian to become an
admiral in the British
navy. “His promo-
tion,” it is cabled,
“was due to an un-
usual run of vacan-
cies.” But he got
there all the same.
He is a son of the late
W. H. Gaunt, County
Court Judge of Vic-
toria, who as a bar-
rister practised mainly
at Ballarat. He has
been in many scraps,
including the Boxer
trouble in China.
There, by the way, he
co-opera ted with the
German and Austrian
forces, and received
the official thanks of
both.
Now that people are
feverishly getting rid
of names like Kaiser
and Konig and Yon
Blutwurst and so on.
it is of interest to re-
call the way in which
Paris Nesb i t, of
Adelaide, changed his.
11 was originally
Pariss. A visit to the
capital of France, a
study of old family
documents or profound
thought satisfied the
K.C. that his parents
had made an error in
spelling. He went to
the Supreme Court
over the matter and
got the second “s” in
“Pariss” deleted. It is
not a serious affair at
any. time, this busi-
ness of name-changing. Anyone can do it
by Deed Poll, through a solicitor, for about
a fiver.
Ex-Victorian Judge Chomley has just
passed out at 77. Coming to Victoria as a
youngster, he was in 1854 a clerk in the
Road Board office. The president at the
time was Francis Murphy, afterwards
Speaker. A couple of years later he got into
the Law Office, studied for the Bar and was
called in 1863, while he was Secretary of
the Department. Next he became a Crown
Prosecutor (1870), and after conducting the
case against William Barnes for the murder
of Joseph Bragge Slack, an ancient litigant,
he was given a job on the County Court
bench. His brother was Commissioner of
Police for many years.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA'S NEW AGENT-
GENERAL, FRED YOUNG.
LILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
A nurse writes that she attended a dying officer.
She asked if he would like to see a clergyman ; but
he onlv muttered “Ma mechante petite Lili,” and
died whispering it. —Romantic war item in ’ S M
Herald.
One hour there is when any heart may freely
Speak all its truth, though prudes may stand
aghast;
One hour to give unspoiled to sobbing Lili,
One little hour in all of life —the last.
Stormy is Fate to souls that sway in passion,
Hither and thither blown and tossed and shoved,
And preachers cast their ropes in many a fashion;
But Lili did not preach—she only loved.
Her wilful lips are drawn in aching sorrow,
Her eyes so quick to weep are pained and dry,
And eyes and lips may smile again to-morrow,
But, for to-night, they help a mart to die.
Her throbbing pulse shall make his heart-beat stronger,
Her vivid mouth shall aid his gasping breath,
Ilrat he may hold glad life one minute longer
Before he meets the cold dismay of death.
It is too late for man to curse or bless him,
100 late for Cod Himself tar praise or blame;
Let Lili’s face come nearer to caress him,
For he is done with passion as with shame.
Robes of repentance or of pride are tatters,
Glory is dustward as a tinsel thrown,
Now comes the hour which every idol shatters,
When Love and Death stand close, and they alone.
lliesc twain there are when every tale is spoken,
Two notes that every sweetest song lets fall,
I'wo that endure though all things else are broken,
Love that makes life, and death that conquers all.
And Love in many a guise his face discloses,
As oft in tragic mien as with a smile ;
And Lili, who was queen of wine and roses,
May playmate be with death a little while.
Though she was light-of-love as light of laughter,
And prim, grim sisters showed her little grace,
I think he will not sleep the worse hereafter
That her sad kiss fell last upon his face.
I think towards the dark his face was bolder
And better than with priest and prayer he died,
Who felt Death's bony claw upon lils shoulder,
But Lili’s heart beat yet against his side.
x.s.w.
ADAM McCAY.


%
m
22
m*
A
/
*v
wt*
-<*
f
A
r
TOB
„^cuj
0:7! xi
DCOO
SQ2C7S
<1
In the crowded city street, by the lone
camp fire the never failing friend
of every man who smokes—a cool
tobacco with a flavour famed throughout
a continent.
CUT (IN TINS) FLAKE OR MIXTURE
ALSO IN PLUG FORM
G 413
THE PIPE OF PEACE AND QUALITY—
LMN
400
very Pipe Guar^
m
m
■psf
ILMN
1
UWJ


IRRIGATION.
We carry Large Stocks of Steam- and
Power-driven Reciprocating Pumps.
Also Large Stocks of Centrifugal Pumps suitable for Irrigation Work.
Cash or Terms.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
49 Clarence St., Sydney
BUCYRUS CO. Milwaukee
Steam Shovels, Drag' Line Excavators.
Sole Agents— WILLIAM .ADAMS <Sb COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Pertb,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Western Australian Bank :
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
-j£ .£* £ £
Sept., 1907. . 27,993 20 p.c.= 15,000 12,993 411,318
Premiums on 2500 new shares. . 31,500 442,878
Mar., 1908.. 23,508 20 p.c.= 17,006 0',562 449,440
Premiums on new shares . . 11,372 460,812
Sept., 1908.. 21,457 20 p.c.= 17,500 3,957 404,769
Mar., 1909.. 25,238 20 „ „ 17,500 7,738 472,507
Sept., 1909.. 27,429 20 „ „ 17,500 9,929 482,436
Premiums on new shares . . 27,024 509,400
Mar., 1910.. 27,945 20 p.c.= 19,189 8,756 518,210
Premiums on new shares .. 12,976 531,192
Sept., 1910.. 27,206 20 p.c.= 20,000 7,206 538,398
Mar., 1911.. 29,066 20 „ „ 20,000 9,066 547,464
Premiums on new shares .. 71,820 619,284
Sept., 1911.. 28,110 20 p.e.= 23,939 4,171 623,455
Premiums on new shares ?. 18,180 641,635
Mar., 1912.. 35,349 20 p.c.= 25,000 10,349 651,984
Sept., 1912.. 36,488 20 „ „ 25,000 11,488 663,472
Mar., 1913.. 37,404 20 „ „ 25,000 12,404 675.876
Sept., 1913.. 33,652 20 „ „ 25,000 8,652 684,528
Mar., 1914. . 34,907 20 „ „ 25,000 9,907 694,435
Sept., 1914.. 29,955 20 „ „ 25,000 4,955 699,390
Westralia has had the worst drought that
has struck it since it started as a serious
agriculturist; and this bank’s profit lias
wilted, along with the wheat crop and most
of the other figures:—
LiaBJTjITIKS.
Sept., ’l3. Sept., ’l4. .
Notes .. .. £ 15,196 ,-t,,L2,046 Dec., £2,050
Rills, etc. . . 200,815 147,385 Dec., 53,430
Free deposits ..1,289,871 1,199,729 Dec., 90,142
Fixed deposits . . 1,276,170 1,233,624 Dec., 42,546
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 1,017,874 1,027,605 Inc., 9,731
Advances . . . , 2,636,544 2,462,069 Dec., 174,475
Premises . . 78,510 78,000 Dec., 510
The only increase is in liquid assets. De-
posits have been withdrawn pretty solidly;
but advances have been c lied in with
enough energy tq counterbalance that shrink-
age and leave a bit over.
Still, one can’t afford to give three cheers
every time a bank strengthens itself by call-
ing up advances. It may be all right for the
bank, but infernally rough on the public.
The cheerful thing to find is a bank which
has held itself in so strong a position that
it is able to go on helping its customers
when a pinch comes. The West Australian
Bank has not been in as good a position to
do this as it appeared to be on the surface.
It always has held an exceptional lot of free
deposits; and free-deposit money can only
be used safely when quick repayment can be
counted unon—and a bank can’t count upon
much quick repayment at present, especi-
ally in a community which depends largely
on wheat and wool. The bank has really
been in need of more fixed deposits, and, if
it had branches and agencies in the right
places, it should have been able to command
those deposits, because of the size of its
capital and reserves —the latter consisting
largely of cash premiums paid for shares.
It has on fixed deposit only a few pence
more than 255. for every £1 of its own
funds. That has of course seriously limited
its lending capacity. On the other hand,
the small proportion of fixed deposits has
resulted and is still resulting in the few
depositors there are getting extraordinary
security for their money. Further, it
means comparatively small risks also for the
shareholders. For instance, on Sept. 30 the
advances and other shrinkable securities
(apart from public securities and premises)
were £2,462,070, or just about £2 10s. for
every £l of shareholders’ funds; whereas in
the great Bank of Australasia —quoted
because of its extraordinary strength—every
£1 of shareholders’ funds has to protect just
upon £4 risked in similar securities. In
these circumstances, thouah the dividend
looks high, it isn’t to be expected that the
profits really will be high ; and as a matter
of fact they are not. Last half-year’s earn-
ings were at the rate of onlv £6 7s. p.c. p.a.
on capital and reserves combined.
The Co-operative Assurance Co. (Syd-
ney) :
Added to
July, Income. Claims. Expenses. Deficit. Deficit.
1911.. £3,000
Sept.,
1912.. £4,441 £lO4 £16,625 £12,288 15,288
1913.. 10,074 167 15,107 5,200 20,488
1914.. 14,370 1229 17,725 4,584 25,072
The co. began with £3OOO of its capital in
paper; and as a great deal of money has gone
in the pursuit of business, no less than
£25,072, or very nearly one-half of the capi-
tal, is now represented by something that you
can’t gauge by any known table of weights or
measures. In the balance-sheet it is described
as “outlay on foundation and organisation.”
But the co. has spent something more than
£25,072. As the table shows, the claims have
been very small thus far; but liabilities have
been accumulating on all the policies in force.
Among the liabilities set out in the published
accounts there is no mention of these policy
obligations. If the A.M.P. adopted a similar
method it could show a surplus of over
£32,000,000. But the A.M.P., knowing that
it has received a great amount in premiums
towards paying claims on policies which have
more or less run their course, includes among
its liabilities over £30,000,000 towards meet-
ing these maturing claims. If the Co-opera-
tive adopted the same practice, it would
have to admit that a great deal more than
£25,072 of its capital has been absorbed.
The valuation of the policy liabilities is a
matter for an actuary ; and the directors say
that a valuation before the end of the co.’s
fifth year “would be costly and of but trifling
value.” For that reason, they add, “the con-
tingent liabilities and assets are necessarily
omitted.” Now, this is altogether too much
like juggling; and if the co. wants to be con-
sidered respectable it had better drop that
sort of thing. Assuming that the co. can’t
afford to have the liabilities valued now, the
management at least knows that there are
liabilities of some size; and, if no valuation
had been made, the proper course was to
note the fact on the published accounts. To
airily refer to “contingent liabilities and
assets in this way is to give the idea to
many people—perhaps to most people—that
these contingent liabilities and assets balance
one another. As a matter of fact, they don’t.
Money has been actually received, and this
has been taken credit for. Actual liabilities
have been incurred in return for that
money, and these liabilities have not been
debited. Nobody can reasonably expect an
insurance office to make much of a showing
in the early years of its existence. If the
Co-operative had spent £30,000 of its capital
in laying the foundations of the business, The
Bulletin doesn’t know that it would com-
plain. Its character might still be unspotted.
But it won’t be if it goes much further along
the track it is on at present.
In this third year, lumping all the pre-
miums together. Ordinary and Industrial, their
total was £14,370. The expenses amounted
to £17,725.. That is pretty serious. The ex-
penditure is not itemised, but included in it
are “legal charges.” Presumably these include
the heavy costs of a very ill-advised libel
action brought against Sydney Sun, claim-
ing £50,000. The co. recovered nothing. The
Bulletin wondered at the time whether these
costs would be reckoned as goodwill in the
next balance-sheet. As a matter of fact,
since they are partly responsible for
the deficit, and as the deficit is added to the
goodwill item, this has in a sense been done.
For shareholders, who are scattered all over
Australia, the first question is : Is there value
for the £25,072 sunk in “foundation and
organisation”? It has to be confessed that,
if the co. has, through this outlay, estab-
lished a pull, it is not manifesting itself in in-
creased business at reduced cost, as it should.
The Industrial business, which has no doubt
sucked up most money, is being curtailed.
The curtailment is proper; the co. is much
better for dropping the short-term endow-
ments which it used to pursue. But was
none of this £25,072 spent in trying to get
business which has now been abandoned? For
the rest, the co. has its house-purchase
policies; and here, with careful management,
it may have a future. There can, however,
be no certainty about it yet.
The young life-insurance office has a hard
row to hoe under the best of conditions. It
has to fight every foot of the way; and,
much as he would like to give the kid a start,
no responsible person, charged with the duty
of recommending an insurance-policy invest-
ment, can direct his clients to the uncertain
youngster when there are proved adult insti-
tutions in the field. So the youngster has to
fight for his own hand, and fight all the way.
If lie wins through, so much more to liis
credit. All that can be «aid, so far, is that,
pending an actuarial investigation, it may
be taken for granted that the un-
consumed capital is more than suffi-
cient to provide for all policy lia-
bilities ; so the policy-holder’s position is for
the present safe enough. What his prospects
are as to bonuses, and what the shareholders’
prospects are as to dividends, it is much too
early yet to say. In view of the world-out-
look the shareholder will probably get very
hungry if he waits for a meal till this co.
gives him one.
St. Joseph’s Investment and Building
Society (Sydney):—
Profit Divi- Writ- Norri-
Business on dend ten nal Re-
Sept., Profits. Sales. (5 p.c.). Off. serves.
1904 ..£3,496 £3500 £llB
1905 ... 3,601 3500 219
1906 . . 3,575 3500 294
Assets written up, £28,588, which amount
was transferred to capital.
1907 . . 3,978 4000 272
1908 .. 4,438 £6654 £2809 8,555
1909 .. 5,071 1420 2858 12,188
1910 .. 5,015 367 2858 14,712
1911 . . 6,485 1220 2858 19,559
Reserves transferred to capital, £9529. . 10,030
1912 . . 6,885 1056 3335 14,636
Assets written up, £6OOO .. .. 20,636
1913 . . 9,134 571 3335 27,006
Reserves transferred to capital, £9529. . 17,477
1914 . . 10,114 2091 3812 25,870
There is a lot of comfort in that table for
the man who can hang on. A good many
stocks are now quoted at 10s. which a little
before the war were worth well over £l. You
can buy receipts for instalments paid on
suburban and so-called suburban allotments
at ss. in the £. For the man who must sell,
these are hard times. But there are com-
paratively few who must. The majority
who sell do so simply because in their panic
they think that, having fallen thus far, the
goods must for some unknown reason go on
falling. But, if you need neither sell nor
hypothecate, what if your market does fall,
so long as it recovers? How much worse
off for being nearly wrecked is a man who
has been asleep through it all ? For those who
need not sell, there is only one justification
from the business point of view for getting-
out now—the possibility of being able to get
in later on at a still lower-price. Some
securities will fall lower, no doubt. But,
as the experience of the past couple of
months shows, others are moving up slowly
but steadily. The man who gets out in
order to get in may manage it —or he may
miss the ’bus. Many an over-smart man has
missed the ’bus before to-day.
Here was a concern which went quite
mad 25 years ago. It advanced so much
on properties at bubble valuations that when
the boom burst, and the properties were re-
valued, the society could see nothing for it
but to write the £lO shares down to £3
iii order to make good the loss. Fortunately
tms society didn’t go out into the market
and sell its properties wholesale at the
written-down values. Perhaps either a
building society or a bank should have done
so, according to the strict theory of the
business: it is the function of such concerns
to turn money over, not to nurse properties
and keep dead accounts on their books. But
when one good theory is burst a good many
others often have to go overboard. So it
was in this case. It didn’t seem possible
that values would ever get back to any-
thing like the outrageous prices of the boom.
Yet good times, helped no doubt by another
borrowing boom, put the prices so far up
that of the £7 written off these shares £5
has been already restored; and tlmre are
enough reserves now to restore the balance.
That is the reward of hanging on.
The co.’s present capital is £76,233, and
it owes, mainly on fixed deposit, £54,881.
Add the reserves before paying current
dividend, and you get £100.) 97. This is
represented as follows :
Old mortgages .. .. ..£13,018
New ditto . . . . . . 46,470
Foreclosures .. .. .. 74,174
Liquid assets and office premises 20,535
Total assets .. £100,797
Interest and rents appear to bring in well
over !) p.c. net; and from that return it
doesn’t look as though the assets are over-
valued. But it isn’t an infallible test.
In any case, the margin of profit over what
is necessary to give (say) a T) p.c. dD. is
wide enough to pay for a good deal of re-
placement. in case some of the premises are
getting old and decrepit; and if it isn’t
wanted for that it will allow of a lot of
shrinkage, in rents, etc. And, of course,
there’s going to be a shrinkage in rents very
soon. Rent rates, like a lot of warales
and food prices and other things, have been
based or nothing more substantial Ilian
boom froth ; and that must settle down.
* * * *
The Fedekal Buildini Society (Mel-
bourne) : —-
Profit
Business on Total Dividend Re-
Sept., Profits. Sales. Profit. (4 p.c.). serves.
1905 .. £4,323 £1495 £5,818 £3854 £28,452
(44 p.c.)
1906 . . 4,924 684 5,G08 4336 29,724
(5 p.c.)
1907 . . 5,605 425 6,030 4817 30,937
(6 p.c.)
1908 . . 6,299 144 6,443 5781 31,599
(64 p.c.)
1909 . . 7,140 7,140 6263 32,476
(7 p.c.)
1910 . . 7,607 7,607 6745 33,338
1911 . . 8,233 ' 8,233 0745 34,826
1912 . . 9,540 9,540 6745 37,621
1913 . . 8,658 8,658 7019 39,260
1914 .. 13,027 13,027 8921 43,366
This is another case from which the man
who can hang on may draw comfort, even
though he does see the market value of
some of his securities slipping away. The
old Federal Society made a pretty bad mess
of it, yet by no means as bad as it looked
at one time; and when this new co. was
formed it was thought advisable to make
the capital only £96,351, and put the other
£26,488 of assets into reserves in case things
shouldn’t pan out as well as expected.
Practically all the properties then in hand
have since been got rid of; and instead of
the society having to draw upon the contin-
gency fund, the reserve has been steadily
strengthened by surpluses. That is to say,
the written down values have been exceeded
when the properties have been sold. And
though the dividend has been advanced
from 4 to 7 p.c., the aggregate reserve has
been increased from £26,488 to £43,366.
Certainly the shareholders have been add-
ing to their risks. Here are some balance-
sheet figures:—
1904. 1909. 1912. 1913. 1914.
Liabilities—■
Deposits £32,651 £79,483 £78,268 £84,862
Assets—-
Advances £63,160 143,452 205,809 222,164 251,633
Properties 54,071 18,813 8,927 7,674 5,547
Cash . . 4,779 2,548 2,093 17,020 3,523
So there is now £84,862 of other people’s
money which the society is using, and which
it has undertaken to return in full, no mat-
ter how its own investment of the coin may
turn out. These deposits, plus some new
capital, and the money realised from the
sale of old properties, has gone into new
mortgages, or is owing on properties sold.
Presumably the money is being repaid to
the society by instalments. This should
mean that every single advance or balance
owing on sale has had something paid off it.
A sudden slump would, for all that, orobably
throw many properties on the society’s
hands. But the war didn’t produce any
sudden slump in Victoria. The steadily-
deepening drought had, as it were, taken
the edge off the depression, and there have
been no boom valuations for a year past.
Ho any recent advances should be of a
strictly-moderate character; and even if a
few securities should be thrown on the
society’s hands, there won’t in that case be
anything to seriously worry about. As for
profits, they can stand a very hard cut and
still give the 7 p.c. dividend; and as for
depositors, if they can always get as good
security for their money they won’t need to
lose any sleep pondering things.
* * * *
The Melbourne Motor Omnibus Co. —
The undated report of the directors has just
been issued, along with the accounts to
.June 30, 1914. It is explained that the
delay in issue has been due to proposals to
amalgamate with other cos. The majority
in this co. sanctioned amalgamation, “since
when a certain section has been doing every-
thing in its power to prevent the proposals
being carried into effect. But a settlement
of the matters in dispute has now been
arranged.” Following on that, sharehold-
ers are to meet on December 8 to finally
authorise liquidation of this co., and to
empower the liquidator “to raise the sum of
£5127 to pay for the purchase of 13,020
shares of dissentient shareholders,” the
money to be used being part of £9OOO to
the credit of the co. at the Royal Bank of
Australia. In all there are about 92,000
shares of 10s. issued ; paid capital on June
80 was £42,012, of which £13,500 was issued
to vendors, who got £7500 for “goodwill” —
blessed word, which, like charity, covereth
a multitude of sins. Anyway, the business
for which the misguided co. gave away
27,000 shares out of a total of less than
92,000, besides paying all flotation expenses,
has resulted in a dead loss the first year of
£1855. Of course there are ninety-and-nine
reasons why, instead of making the 20 p.c.
profit which the prospectus mentioned, there
is an actual loss. Repairs, renewals, etc.,
have been very heavy; and apparently a
depreciation fund is provided to replace
each ’bus after five years. In that connec-
tion the directors produce the most cheerful
remark Tiie Bulletin has met in a long,
weary day: “Heavy expense on renewals
has been caused wholly by the state of the
roads ; but the position as it presents itself
to your directors is as follows. At the end
of five years, when a ’bus disappears from
the balance-sheet as an asset, it will be of
considerable value, owing to the probability
of the whole of the component parts of the
chassis at some time or other (probably
more than once) during the five years it has
been running being replaced with new ones.”
It’s a dreadful sentence; but apparently it
means that the worse road a ’bus is on, and
the oftener the vehicle has to go into dock
to be patched, the more it will be worth at
the end of five years.
Though it didn’t have much hard cash to
start with, the co. evidently hasn’t seen
many openings for successful business
staring it in the face; hence it wound up
its year with over £9500 in cash, and owing
£3872. With more ’buses to share the
overhead charges (there were only 18 ’buses
even at the end of the year), with the
better arrangements which appear now to
have been made with regard to spares and
duplicates, with engineering shops of its
own. and with more experienced drivers a
co. may do much better than these figures
indicate. The experience so far has simply
shown that you can’t judge the first year
of a small motor-’bus co. in Melbourne by
the 10th or so of a big motor-’bus co. in
London. Whether the London experience
is any guide at all has yet to be found out.
Till then, instead of dwelling wholly on the
fact that London General Omnibus shares,
quoted at £l7 in 1909, were worth £233 in
1912, shareholders might profitably remem-
ber sometimes that the Australian Motor
Cab Co. (Sydney) has lost more than half
its capital and has never paid a dividend.
* * * *
The Solomon Islands Rubber Planta-
tions, Ltd. (Brisbane) :—This co. was
formed in 1910 to take over freehold estates
of about 10,000 acres on Ysabel and Sufi
Islands, British Solomons. Subsequent pur-
chases brought the total up to between
13,000 and 14,000 acres. The area is approx-
imate only, as the land has never been sur-
veyed. A syndicate owned the original
estate, and the first issue of £1 shares
(20,000) was confined to the syndicators.
Late in 1911 there was an issue of 40.000
shares at par (£1) mainly to provide funds
for development. On July 31 last these
40,000 shares were paid up to 12s. 9d.; only
Is. 6d. had been called up during the pre-
ceding 12 months. So far very little except
development has been done, and until re-
cently the entire outlay was added to the
book value of the plantations. The free-
holds (which item includes plantations and
premises) have moved up as follows: —
1911 .. £27,131 I 1913 .. £47,021
1912 . . 44,255 | 1914 . . 51,027
As the paid capital is only £45,500 (includ-
ing a few pounds of calls outstanding), it
has been necessary to raise money outside.
On mortgage £BOOO is owing. Other debts
on July 31 totalled £2402. The assets
apart from plantations were valued at
£4848, more than half of it represented by
a recruiting launch.
Nominally there was a working account
profit of £76 in 1913 and £166 in the past
year. But that merely means that a few
cocoanuts came into bearing and a pound
or two of rubber was tapped, and the
amounts specified remained to the good
after paying for harvesting and preparing
the goods for market. Apparently no part
of the cost of planting or maintenance was
included, so the alleged profits were not
true profits. Originally rubber was going
to make the co. a millionaire. But when
rubber fell from half-a-sovereign to half-a-
crown the management decided that copra
was the co.’s friend. No rubber-planting
has therefore been done of late, though
there are 112 acres under this vegetable.
The usual difficulty with regard to labor is
experienced—especially labor for tapping.
There was talk at one time about importing
some from the Malay Peninsula; but the
British authorities in the Solomons were
evidently unsympathetic. For copra there
are now 357 acres under cocoanuts; and
when the war clouds roll by there will be a
good market again for this vegetable grease.
That seems pretty certain. For the present,
however, the trade has been knocked sense-
less ; so the co. will have to wait a few
years more for any divisible profits. Their size
then will depend chiefly on the quantity and
quality of the labor available. The supply
lias_ been getting poorer and much dearer
during the last few years, and the term of
indenture being now reduced to a mere 24
months,_ the cost of recruiting is of course
proportionately higher. With such a rain-
fall (about 110 inches), and such land
standing in the books at such a low price,
and with shipping facilities right on the
estate, there must, however, be something
most radically wrong if the co. doesn’t pre-
sently pay big dividends. The land, by the
way, is freehold—a title not now procurable
from the natives in the Solomons.


The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
(“THE M.L.C.”)
Assets Exceed £8,750,000
Annual Income Exceeds ••• £1,400,000
The Company is prepared to consider
applications for
MORTGAGE LOANS
on
farming and grazing lands.
“Cut out everything that isn’t bringing its share
of profits” is the message that is going forth from
every executive office these days, and it is m cany-
ing out this message that we can help you, Mi.
Engineer or Plant Owner. Out in your machine shop
“Pioneer” leather belting on all your drives will
make every minute count. “Pioneer keeps pulleys
whirring at full speed all the time it gups anti
doesn’t slip. You don’t have to use your money m
getting it to work. “Pioneer” is the specially'tanned
and built-up centre cuts of flawless Australian ox
hides, ft works in thousands of Australia s biggest
power plants, and has been awarded all the Imperial,
State and Federal Dept, contracts for 1914-15. Ask
“Pioneer” particulars from our nearest office.
“Pioneer” is made onlv by J. C. Ludowici and Son.
Ltd, “Pioneer” Works, 117 York Street Sydney
(opn. (>. V. Markets); and sold in Victoria by Geo.
Russell* P’t’v Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne; in
South Australia by J. McKell, Timpson Street, Port
Adelaide; in Queensland liy Queensland Machinery
Co Ltd., Brisbane; in VV. Australia hv Horace
Summers, Howard Street, Perth; in Broken Hill by
Geo. C. Dempster, Argent Street.*
C. A. Parsons & Co. Ltd., Neweastle-on-Tyne, are
now making their geared turbines whereby the
Parsons’ Steam Turbine may be geared to a slow-
running dynamo, pump, etc. Sets up to 4000 k.w.
are already running, and a large geared turbo pump-
ing set is shortly arriving for the Metropolitan Board
of Water Supply and Sewerage, Sydney. High
efficiency is secured and the economy of the high-
speed turbine is still maintained. The Union
steamer Mahcno has recently been re-engined and fitted
with geared turbines, arid numerous other boats are
now running. Sole agents. W illia.m Adams and Com-
pany Limited, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and
Perth.*
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread .1000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the liandhreaking system amounted to Gs. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside , and spreading Is. ;
total,' 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd.— a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow i6in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [2
* * * »
Extract from The Review, London, December 5,
1913, re The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Ltd.:—“Life policies alone do not appeal to some in-
dividuals. Therefore, the Society’s combined accident
and sickness policy, if fully advertised, should meet
with the acceptance deserved. This is a branch offer-
ing much scope for energetic development. This
office, we are sure, will press forward and transact a
much larger business of this kind in coming years.
It is an interesting office in every way, being
thoroughly equipped to carry on its work with the
maximum amount of good for its policyholders.”* [3
* * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is particularly suitable for
laying along steep hillsides and places inaccessible
by ordinary routes. The pipe can he made to adapt
itself to uneven and unusual contours. Catalogue
from The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., 57 York
Street, Sydney (head office).*
On the Murrumbidgee at the present time land
owners find it necessary to irrigate extensively to
provide feed for their stock. Many up-to-date plants
have been, or are, in the course of erection by R.
Hornsby & Sons Ltd., of 1 Barrack Street, Sydney,
and at Melbourne and Brisbane.* [2
* * * *
J. Malcolm Newman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Flatten Building, . Jamieson Street,
Sydney.*
*• * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.*
In addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast Iron Pipes, Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Pro-
prietary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyarnbo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.*
* * * *
PETROLEUM. —George D. Meudell, of 8 Scott’s
Court, Melbourne, requires boring options or leases
over likely oil areas in Australia. Will give liberal
terms.*
* * * *
“Robey’s” latest steam combination—Self-Con-
tained Superheated Compound Engine and Boiler —
powers from 30 to 400 b.h.p. Not built to sell,
built to last. Represented by Arthur Leplaslrief &
Co. Head Office, Sydney.*
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam
Boileis, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Boilers to the majority of leading
mines in Australia.*
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collisox A Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to 11. B. SILUEtiI’.EUG and Co.. Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street.
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun's
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh; hurl sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth's assay balancer, sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain; weight; pocket tranris; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan's crucibles; chess icsl-j; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
The Denton Hat Mills, Ltd. (Mel-
bolU ’ ne): - Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off- £4631
1903.. £3,268 10 p.c. = £2.>84 ,Llo4o 4758
1904.. 3,117 10 „,, 2990 __ 4966
1905.. 3,208 10 „„ 2000 __ 363 5329
1906.. 3,363 10 ~,, 3000 __ 6018
1907.. 3,684 10 „ „ 3000
ions 3 969 10 „ „ 3000
New ’ co. formed ; capital increased to
£45,005, of which only the odd.
appears to have been paid in < 1514
1909.. 5,636 9 p.c. = 4125 —101 l
1910.. 6.923 12| „ „ 5626 - 1f < f^ g
1911.. 7,919 184,,... 6188
1912.. 10,894 13| „ „ 6188 244
£9OOl of reserves capitalised • •
SB:: SS - .85 35
There is more luck in this business than
meets the eye. The 1912-13 seasons saw a
run on felts for women’s wear. There was
no reason to expect that the fashion would
drop dead ; yet it did—anyway, it got a diead-
ful shock. One Melbourne co., turning out a
first-class article, was hit so hard by ■
reversal of form and fashion and one oi two
other disasters that it could only pay 4 P-c.
for the year ; and the Denton s profits, though
not so badly affected, took a header also. l>ut
this co. is really not to be put in the same
class as most others, and its exceptional dn -
dends are no guide to what others entering
the business could pay ; tor, to a great ex e ,
this is a warehousemen’s mill, manufacturing
to order. That means probably much less
waste than others have to face; also, i
means lower costs in chasing business, a
small total of book debts and no losses ; and,
finally, no need to carry big stocks. Certainly
a profit isn’t always made even under those
circumstances —in some of the N.S.W . Works
Department’s enterprises, for example. Hut
von can’t apply ordinary rules to the N fe.iV.
Works Department. The Denton Mills capi-
tal is £54,00(5. Reserves are small, but the
plant has been written down so hard that
with fixtures and fittings it stands now at
onlv £4(501. Liabilities total £9565, or about
half as much as the book-debts, which are
almost as good as cash. A nice, comfortable
position altogether.
* * * *
Howard Smith Co., Ltd., thinks the time
is ripe for another fruit-gathering. . Ihe
new co. will issue 1,250,000 £1 ordinary
shares, giving five for each one in. the pre-
sent co.; and one (5 p.c. cumulative pref.
share will be issued for every existing 5 p.c.
cumulative pref. share. That will make
1,750.000 shares to be issued; and if there
are any assets over after paying a dividend
(6d. to prefs. and 2s. 6d. to ordinaries),
there will be a further issue of ordinary
shares to absorb the surplus. The nominal
capital of the new co. will be £5,000,000, so
plenty of room is allowed for expansion.
It is proposed that the new arrangement
shall come into force at midnight on Decem-
ber 31, 1914.
* * * *
Broken Hill Junction North Silver
Mining Co., now the Junction North Broken
Mill Mines
Written
Profit. Dividend. Off. Deficit.
Sept., 1907. . £17,726 Nil £7,891 £5,538
Mar., 1908.. 7,376 Nil 7,629 5,<91
Sept., 1908.. 12,418 Nil 7,263 636
Reserves.
Mar., 1909.. 11,024 Nil 3,618 6,770
Sept., 1909.. 16,821 Nil 7,589 16,002
Mar., 1910.. 20,357 Nil 7,840 28,519
Sept., 1910.. 7,620 £9,000 8,098 19,041
Mar., 1911.. 34,094 18,000 7,987 27,148
Sept.. 1911.. 37,174 18,000 12,308 34,014
Mar., 1912.. 16,391 9,000 5,281 36,124
Reserves wiped out; new co. formed.
Sept., 1912.. 36,828 Nil 22,254 14,574
Loss.
Mar., 1913.. 5,744 Nil 2,928 5,902
Profit.
Sept., 1913.. 22,114 Nil 6,338 21,678
Mar., 1914.. 6,121 Nil 3,578 24,221
Sept., 1914.. 7,633 Nil 3,839 28,015
This and its neighbor, the Junction, have
been the most disappointing mines on the
Broken Hill lode; but instead of helping
one another in their misfortune, they have
usually been on bad terms. Hence a recent
law suit which cost this co. a heap of money
in 1912-13. After issuing the most extra-
vagant yarns about their property, the Junc-
tion North people at last discovered what
had been plain to others for years, that
they had no ore worth mentioning. Scat-
tered over five levels there are 215,000 tons,
the manager thinks; but as costs, both
mining and milling, are high, and can never
be low on account of the character of the
mine and of the ore, 215,000 tons will give
shareholders very little profit. A scheme to
treat other cos.’ products was therefore
adopted; and, in consequence of some suc-
cessful experiments made by T. Owen, who
was the co.’s mill-boss at the time, the Junc-
tion North plumped for slimes —the material
out of which metallurgists generally make
their bad dreams. Unfortunately, to go in
for buying and treating by-products meant
laying out a lot of money and locking it
up, and this co. didn’t have the money, and
could only get it by offering usurious terms.
This has helped to make the coating of gilt
on the gingerbread more precarious than
ever. Now, of course, the whole concern is
shut down, concentrates being unsaleable.
Further, of £19,495 owing on concentrates
produced prior to the stop, £7BOO is due by
German firms.
The surplus of floating assets over liabili-
ties is estimated at £99,262—assets,
£160,478 ; liabilities, £61,216. The liabilities
are dead-certain; but as the assets include
£86,771 of purchased slime, and as this,
slime is held largely for its zinc value, and
as the future of zinc is most uncertain, some
doubts may reasonably be entertained about
the present value of this asset. However,
things are poor even accepting the book
(cost) value of this slime. Twelve months
ago the surplus of floating assets was esti-
mated at £106,503, so they have actually
been cut into by about £7OOO in the. year,
though no dividend has been paid. This and
the alleged profit have been put into plant,
etc. —which is the old, old story. _ It must
surely bring less comfort every time it is
retold.
* * * *
The B. H. Block 10 Board was in a bit
of a tangle over the New Guinea Options
Syndicate deal. Alec Campbell and Colin
Templeton, directors of Block 10, were
shareholders in the syndicate, so Duncan
Mcßryde and solicitor Jardine had to guard
Block 10’s interests. What made the to them
congenial job of clinging on to the co.’s
£70.000 a bit troublesome was general-man-
ager 0. B. Ward’s partiality for the syndi-
cate’s Misima properties. The co.’s Scotch
terms were at length set before the syndicate
thus: for its southern leases, Block 10, if
it agreed to buy, to give £lOOO cash and
20,000 £1 paid shares to the syndicate ; also
to hand £5OOO cash and 30,000 paid-ups to
the vendors, and put up £30,000 cash.
As the new co. thus to be financed and
loaded was to be of 150.000 shares, Block
10 would take 100.000 shares for providing
£41.000 cash, plus £3OOO for examination
during the ' option term. There didn t
seem to the syndicate anything dreadful in
all this when the aristocratic lineage of
Block 10 co. was recalled, as well as its
control of O. B. Ward’s services. What
roused the gorge of the syndicate was that
Block 10 insisted on getting five new shares
(or an eighth interest) in the syndicate and
the first offer of the rest of the leases. Even
Fatman usually agrees to give a little bit
for an option. In this case lie demanded to
be paid to come in, and that with syndicate
shares standing at £3OO in the market. It
took a week for the syndicate to swallow
the pill, but it was got down at last. So
now Block 10 will be sending O. B. Ward
to the tropics to find out if Misima is what
it is said to be.
* * * *
Stanthorpe Tin (Q.), which had £405 to
credit of Profit and Loss at the end of its
first year, managed to improve its figures by
£27 in the past year. But it improved its
position more than it did its figures; for it
worked itself out. of comparatively poor and
narrow ground into richer and wider dirt,
and at the same time greatly added toils
water storage. Then William the Holt
stepped in and spoiled the co.’s plans. Tin
concentrates being unsaleable, the mine was
shut down. Just before this happened the co.
had issued a debenture covering an advance
made by the bankers for plant, etc. It
looked a safe proposition, for the last three
months had given about £BOO to the good.
But, as before mentioned, the bottom tell
out of things, and when all the tin was sold
there was still £BO4 owing to the bank and
£972 to other people, while cash and liquid
assets amounted to only £231. As money
must be raised, it is proposed to offer the
shareholders 10 p.c. mortgage debentures,
with a currency of three years. The total to
be raised will be under £3000; and apart
from the mining properties the plant, etc.,
is valued at over £5500.
* * * *
What North Queensland calls “the French
Syndicate’’—the Societe Frangaise des
Metaux Bares —is being wound up; and,
though a lot of the assets have had to be
sacrificed, the whole of the Australasian
creditors will be paid 20s. in the £, and there
will then be something substantial with
which to solace the shareholders in France.
A small part of the plant (which cost over
£40,000) was sold to the Palmer Co., at
Cooktown; the rest of it has been disposed
of to other parties. Wolfram took the co. to
North Queensland in the first place.
* * * *
Blair Athol (Q.) is rather out of fashion
on the market because the output doesn t
increase, and competition from neighboring
collieries looks much more serious. The co.
is capitalised at £50.000, in 100,000 shares,
so on the present output of 50.000 tons a
year a net profit of 2s. per ton is needed to
pay 10 p.c. For the last year or two a
quarterly sixpence has been paid—a sweet
thing for those who got their shares for the
original 65.; but there are not very many
of them.
* * * *
Bode Hill Co., working a Cooktown (Q.)
tin show, has been driven to declare a three-
penny call instead of the divs. that were
expected by this time. However, some
money (£750) has gone in buying the Roar-
ing Meg, and it is claimed that the deal will
cheapen operations. Tin oxide is now sale-
able in Queensland —at a price—and
there is talk of Lode Hill starting work
again. It is to be hoped it will, for the
North hasn’t been so hard-up for years.
* * * *
A Mount Morgan syndicate has decided
to clear up all doubts regarding the big stack
of tailings on the Dee River. Two-thirds of
these tailings contain copper, and they all
contain some gold. Just as leaching and
precipitation don’t recover all the copper,
so chlorination fails to recover some gold.
A coarse particle of ore may protect a
minute “color” from the chemical action of
chlorine. Hitherto these tailings have been
considered too sour for cyaniding. and the
copper has been a lion in the path. Still
there must be a large quantity that contains
very little if any copper, and regrinding will
help to liberate the gold, of which, more-
over, there is probably larger quantities than
the big co.’s officials like to think. Re-
grinding, it may be noticed, has played a big
part in the closer recoveries of silver, lead
and zinc at Broken Hill.
* * * *
Hampden-Cloncurry (Q.) shares picked
up a bit when it became known that 1600
tons of blister copper had been sold since
the end of August. The half-yearly accounts
to that date showed a net profit of £49.445,
or £l5 18s. 3d. per ton of fine copper. That
rate of profit isn’t at all bad with the red
metal averaging £63 12s. (id. per ton; hut
recently the average price has been about
£53, and at that figure the profits available
to the shareholders must be very scanty.
For there has been a lot of difference in
most of these Gloncurry concerns between
the profit declared and the profit available
for the shareholders, large quantities having
been consumed in development, equipment,
tramway construction, etc.
* * * *
To lengthen its skirts Maori Queen, the
Bright (Vic.) show in Tom Husband’s Mel-
bourne office, is giving each holder of one
of its £2O shares, 10 £2 shares fully paid,
and for each contributing share, 40s. paid,
10 £2 shares paid to 4s. No change is
made in anyone’s interest, but the swap is
neatly explained when it is confessed that
shares will become “more conveniently
negotiable.” Since A. E. Langford butted
Maori Queen shares to £5O the co. has paid
£21,815 in divs., and the capital issued is
only £21,256. Its run of three ss. dividends
last year was a come-down on old records;
but, then, No. 2 dredge bucketted only
6330 z., against 12600 z. from No. 1 dredge.
The poor stuff handled by No. 2 went only
l.OOgr. per cub. foot, and that dredged by
No. 1 plant I.7gr. The co. earned its divi-
dends ; but by writing off £6OO for deprecia-
tion of plant, the profit and loss credit was
cut down to a measly £42. There is still a
big stretch of ground to work, and with the
country in need of gold there isn’t as much
v-rryinv o V er the sludge nuisance as there
was a while ago.
* * * *
Great Langi and Langi Central are at
opposite ends of the Langi Logan system,
and each company has a fair infusion of
the Bryant-McCrorey-Turner blood. Both
claims are lazy dogs, but at length Great
Langi has got its winding and pumping
plant up, so it can get to work sinking the
main shaft if the Board can bring itself to
do a bit of energetic call-making. Central,
on the other hand, is still sweating at the
boring stage. The co. has £2400 Board of
Works debentures. A hard-up State doesn’t
think of that, so it kindly sank 10 bores
during the past half-year for the co., and
defined the outlet of the lead on the
southern boundary. Having given the
Central this start, Minister Drysdale Brown
bad better carpet Alec Peacock unless the
latter bumps his co-directors into shaft-
sinking at once.
Hans Irvine is very cocksure about the
Pinnacles, near Day Dawn, which is under
option to the decaying Black Range Co.
Ilis visit to W.A. ended in his collaring
another two leases north-east of the Pin-
nades, so that a nice little group of 72
acres is under review by T. A. C.ouper, the
Black Range manager. Irvine’s opinion is
that the Pinnacles lode, as proved to 102 ft.
in one shaft and 60ft. in No. 2, is 4ft. to
sft. of ounce stone, beside which on the
hanging wall is sft. to 6ft. of low-grade
4dwt. dirt. On one of the new north-east
leases ounce stone has also been cut. Be-
tween this spot and No. 1 shaft Irvine con-
siders there may be 30,000 tons of ounce
stone close to the surface. Couper’s job. of
course, will be to see if there is any froth
in this estimate; and as Black Range hasn’t
been any luckier than Mararoa in the new
mines it has taken on, his sampling is cer-
tain to be thorough.
* * * *
Lake View and Oroya’s showing for the
last financial year is about on a par with
that of its predecessor. The profit is only
about £5OO less, and the carry forward is
£l5O more. But had the Queen of the Hills
not earned £17,500 more, and had Lake
View and Star (of which the. co. holds oyer
60 p.c.) not come along with its 20 p.c. div.,
totalling £40,000, the co. would have had a
chilly time. There were no important
changes in the co.’s holdings during the
year.
* * * *
“Harrison 0.”: Seems to me that Vic-
toria’s new Workers’ Compensation Act. is
going to prove an unnecessarily good thing
for some insurance cos. I have a charlady
who calls on me once a week to dust my
poems and sweep my cigarette-ends under the
chest of drawers, and the Act compels pie to
pay a premium of ss. to cover any mishap,
other than an act of God, which may over-
take her in the execution of her dusting. I
don’t mind this —especially as I cherish a
secret hope that she may meet with an acci-
dent. since this appears to be my only chance
of getting rid of her —but mv point is that
she flutters through my diggings for only a
couple of hours a week, and devotes the rest
of her energy to half a dozen or more other
unfortunates, all of whom, presumably, pay
a five-bob premium on her behalf. The Act
remarks severely that the responsibility for
insurance rests with each employer, and in
this way some insurance cos. are going to
be the richer by perhaps a dozen premiums
for the one risk.
* * * *
“Rag’s” reminiscences: In June, 1872,
the Queensland Government sent Alf.
Hann on an exploring expedition from
Fossilbrook, then the farthest out set-
tlement. Two months later the party
cut through on to the Palmer, and found
colors on both sides of the river. Jimmy
Mulligan got this information when the ex-
plorers returned, and with five other miners
left the Einasleigli in ’73, and coming on to
the Palmer got 102 oz. of £4 gold. Bv Christ-
mas of that year 500 diggers were along the
river, and 10,000 oz. had been won. A crowd
of spielers and wasters who didn’t have luck
made for Cooktown (55 miles). When the
Florence Irvine put in there this talent
rushed her and reckoned they’d get free pas-
sages south. The ensuing argument was
being conducted with clubs and waddies when
word arrived of new bonanzas, and the mob
went tumbling back to the Palmer. During
the next two years 15,000 Europeans and
20,000 Chows swarmed along the river. Sup-
plies came, from Maytown and Cooktown.
Carriage was up to £l2O per ton. Fabulous
prices were obtainable —flour, 3s. 6d. a pint
pannikin; tea, Ss.; tobacco, £1 per lb.,
shovels and picks, an ounce of gold a piece ;
horseshoe nails, weight for weight in gold.
Pig-weed boiled did in place of cabbage ;
flour, burnt brown, made an A 1 coltee. A
half-dozen pack mules would earn a man
£lOO a month.


Heelings
Est 1818.
Co
%•
en
en
a m «
®hefrihg«
berry brip
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
TEN YEARS OLD.
WENTWORTH HOTEL,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Specially Revised Tariff
Until Further Notice.
Intending visitors to Sydney are invited to
write, stating requirements, when especially
moderate rates will be quoted—ranging from
two and a half guineas weekly.
TOE WENTWORTH meets the requirements
of the public so perfectly that it has become
easily the most popular hotel in the Southern
Hemisphere.
It stands as the most luxuriously appointed,
and its service and attention to visitors is
incomparable.
Garden Caff'!, where Luncheons and Dinners
are served Table d’Hote or a la carte.
Address:
WENTWORTH HOTEL,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Gips
The
a
lll*®
. .
V?
L'N
/■/
E
mms&K
M
NT':
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, November 30, 1914.
My Dear Arini, —
Australians persistently advertise their
country when any Old-World scholarships are
knocking about. Lance Harrison, B.Sc., of
the Neutral Bay family, has just won an
exhibition worth £lOO from all comers at
Cambridge. The Goldsmid Scholarship
(University College, London) has recently
fallen into the keeping of John Sinclair
Fraser, son of A. J. Fraser, of this city.
Y T oung Fraser’s hobby is engineering, and the
Goldsmid Scholarship puts £9O into his
pocket by way of encouragement.
The Belgian Children’s Relief Fund enter-
tainment at the Hotel Pacific, Manly, was a
quaint affair. Local Society assembled in
great force, and bought 10s. worth of dinner
and charity-show. Not to be done out of
its money’s worth, it lingered over the forage
till nine o’clock was close at hand. Mean-
time plain citizens, who had hurried from
their humble city meal to be in good time
for a show that was booked for eight o’clock,
wandered about the roof garden, which was
damp with passing showers. At last,
Society, still munching its final mouthful,
haughtily whisked its lace skirts—extra
transparent—on the roof. Francis Suttor,
M.L.C., slowly unwound a long oration!
Cadets shouldered arms and formed a hol-
low square, then dashed back to their
base, while Manly’s municipal band let itself
go in patriotic blasts. The Morton girls,
Gladys de Lissa and Rene Lenehan were
scheduled to sell programmes. The inevit-
able auction of anything the promoters could
lay their hands on stayed the other proceed-
ings in the middle of the first heat. The
funds collected are “to clothe and educate”
orphaned Belgians. But it is likely they’ll
stop short at pinnies and petticoats, unless
the Rich, who are always with us, hurl
£20,000 or so into the pool.
In spite of William the Wolf, business
flows into the various tourist agencies. The
Maoriland office here chortles to find that
the half-year’s takings, to November 28, are
much higher than for the corresponding six
months in 1913. Australians are giving
their bit to the Great Cause, but they’re
also mapping out holiday tours instead of
sitting down to brood over the weird ways
of Wilhelm.
Guy Davenport, a son of solicitor Frank
Davenport, was married the other day to
Mabel Cowper, a daughter of the Willie
Cowpers,, of Maitland. The groom is a
sporting young man, well and favorably
known for his prowess on skis and his smart
athletic form. The bride belongs to the
family which looks back to the first Anglican
Dean of Sydney.
The veteran Cowper, the early N.S.W.
shepherd of souls, lived to be 90 or there-
abouts. He is still remembered by many
Cornstalks as a gentle old man, very much
the type of Dean Harding in “Barchester
Towers.” His species has passed into the
semi-oblivion of mid-Victorian novels. To-
day we have the church militant, which is
after the scalps and cassocks of rival theo-
logians, and chases opposition gaiters in
fierce columns of wordy warfare. Another
type is after cricket or football most of the
time. The ancient Cowper, breathing peace
on earth as his most strenuous battle-cry,
once inhabited the old house with the green
whiskers that lurks in the shade of St.
Andrew’s Cathedral.
One of the three bridesmaidens at the
Davenport-Cowper orange-blossoming was the
attractive Ethelwyh Downes, of Brownlow
Hill, Cobbitty.
A. F. Wilding, the well-known tennis
champion, is now a lieutenant in the Royal
Marines. He was lately heard of in Flan-
ders, where British troops once “swore ter-
ribly.” Yet I have been informed that they
only had one swear, and it was the great
and furious repetition of it which made the
annoyance.
A Queensland Rhodes Scholar, R. W.
Mellor, of Gympie, recently left the peaceful
pursuit of knowledge at Balliol College, Ox-
ford, and was tearing up and down France
as a military motor-cyclist when last located.
The thrifty Gallery Trustees haggled over
one or two prices, and knocked 50 guineas
off Max Meldrum’s interior, “An Interesting
Chapter.” The artist had to give way, of
course. I wonder if European artists are
beaten down in this bargain-counter style?
It has an air of Petticoat Lane not likely
to excite the applause of the palette
fraternity.
The Australian Court in the National
Gallery has been attracting citizens, who
want to see the new canvas by Arthur
Burgess. Unfortunately the artist has been
long enough away from Sydney to have for-
gotten the deep sapphire blue of its harbor
waters on a gorgeous spring day. The
early-morning mist cleared away on October
4, 1913; and for the arrival of the begin-
nings of the Australian navy the sea was
“deeply, darkly, beautifully blue,” as it is in
“Morning on the Mediterranean Coast.”
This magnificent seascape by the French
artist, Olive, hangs in the court next the
Australian section. Burgess, working in a
London studio, painted the cold, steely-blue
of the English coast-line. Even the back-
ground is misleading and gives the impres-
sion of mountainous height to North Head.
The picture is a disappointment, and shows
the disadvantage of depicting a public event
at long range.
Mr. Archibald, The Bulletin’s old
chief, bought J. C. Wright’s bit of bold
modelling, “The Green Bronze,” and also
invested in a Julian Ashton canvas, “The
Crevice,” at the Society of Artists’ show.
Harley Griffiths had the luck to sell his
portrait study, “Beryl,” to the National
Gallery for 100 guineas without enduring
the pangs of being beaten down to £99 19s.
llfd. or less.
Norfolk Islanders are making jam for the
Allied stomach, and have been doing it with
unremitting vigor for the last two or three
months. War’s false-alarms have occa-
sionally shaken the jam-spoon in the hand of
the patriotic cook. The worst shock fol-
lowed a circumstantial account of the arrival
of the enemy’s warships on the horizon.
Though there was nothing much except pine-
trees for the visitors to collect in the peace-
ful speck, and the inhabitants couldn’t
therefore understand the visit, they neverthe-
less dashed down to see the supposed Armada
in the dusk of evening. It was eventu-
ally diagnosed as a school of whales at play,
with a small steamer in the offing.
Nurses on board the Kyarra had a mixed
time getting their kits ready. Miss Gould,
the matron in charge, wanted to be a few
sizes on the safe side, so she instructed her
flock to. get No. 7 nursing shoes. There was
no mutiny ; but Nightingales who were con-
scious of neat ankles bought No. 3 footwear
in the usual way.
Mr. Willie Bentley and his wife, from
Suva, are still lying in wait for a steamer
to take them to Ocean Island. They spent
the first few days of their stay in Sydney
chasing their luggage and trying to see
themselves off in a transport. But the
authorities brandished a stern negative, and
found there wasn’t another inch of room to
spa-re. They get away to their new home
in a week or tw.o. Young Bentley, who
belongs to a Fiji pioneer clan, has been
appointed to the staff of the Pacific Com-
missioner, and will camp in comfortable
quarters on Ocean Island. I believe there
is a tennis club, 70 or so inhabitants, and a
picture show on the little bit of rock. Also
an electric light installation, so that you
can press a button to examine your last
new freckle before retiring under a mos-
quito-net.
Dr. Purdie, the Sydney health officer who
went off with the Expedition, will have his
wife to coo-ee to him from across the
Channel. Mrs. Purdie is packing up for
London so that she can be near hubby dur-
ing the uproar. Their youngsters are going
to while away the sunny hours in safe
keeping in Tasmania, where their father
was chief Public Health Officer before he
came on to Sydney. It is a portrait of
Baby Purdie by Florence Rodway—artist
Gruner bought it and lent it this year to
the Society of Artists —that has been so
much admired. The infant was a model
subject, and sat up with professional forti-
tude while Florence smacked her colors on.
Bernice Ed well was very pleased to part
with a miniature to the Art Gallery for the
modest sum mentioned in the catalogue.
The trustees were equally lucky to purchase
Maud Kimbell’s “Peasant Sewing” for a
mere eight guineas. The Maoriland artist’s
studies of French life, made at first hand,
are amongst the most vivid bits of water-
color in the Society of Artists’ eyrie. Just
now Maud is trundling her easel round
South Coast scenery. Australasian women
usually price their work too low, pushing
too far the ancient saw that half a loaf is
better than an empty bread-tin.
Manager Allan, of the old Barrack-street
Bank, has gone off in the Niagara for six
weeks’ pleasuring in Maoriland. His mate
on the trip is Mr. A. Sedgwick. By the
same craft went one Allen, a son of
pastoralist John, of N. S. Wales. But the
two voyagers part in Rotorua, where young
Allen is to take the baths. However, Allan
and Allen will pick each other up again in
the South, and will probably have tbeir lug-
gage mixed on the shores of Lake Wakatipu.
The pale young moon looks down on many
goose-steps these thrilling nights. Not one
hundred miles from Sydney ’Varsity, absent-
minded professors of this, that and the other
are being put through their drill by students.
There must be a chastened sense of joy
under the khaki coat of Corporal Freshman
when he sharply orders full-private Pro-
fessor Scientificus to mind what he is about,
and throw out his chest instead of Ins
shoulder-blades. Pretty well every N.S.W.
golf links has its corps, besides; and pri-
vates of aldermanic girth are having
exhausting marches round putting greens.
Altogether the moon is sailing over a weird
world of explosives.
Dean Regnault, of Wellington (M.L.),
narrowly escaped being dealt with as a
German spy early in August. After attend-
ing the Eucharistic Congress at Lourdes
about the end of fateful July he started for
another theological gathering that was
timed for August 4, in Belgium. On the
journey he dropped into St. Brieux in
Brittany to look up relatives he hadn’t said
“God bless you” to for 30 years. Staying
with a priestly acquaintance, he donned
the cassock one Sabbath morn to help with
the service. But ecclesiastic millinery in
Brittany being of a different cut to that
worn in Maoriland, the boldest of the
scared congregation fled for the Chief of
Police. Explanations proved more than sat-
isfactory, and the Wellington cleric got
safely back to England. He says there are
22,000 French piuests in the fighting line.
Dr. Emma Buckley, who has been lectur-
ing to the Girls’ Realm Guild on lint and
bandages, had a handsome leather suit-case
pushed into her hand the other evening.
The Guild forced this token of its esteem
on the indefatigable lady for working over-
time as its honorary adviser in Red Cross
work. In the daytime the lady’s stethoscope
is mostly at the Medical School or hurrying
to Prince Alfred and other hospitals. The
rush to Europe has left a shortage in local
medical ranks; hence the haste of those who
remain.
Mrs. Bruun and her daughter, of Mos-
man, are hieing home in the Maloja. They
ought to get here in time to eat their
Christmas dinner. They are among the
thirteen hundred millions who narrowly
escaped being interned in Ivaiserland through
not being there when the trouble started.
However, Mrs. Bruun (the name was made
in Denmark) got nearer to it than some.
An attack of tonsilitis kept her in London
when others of the party crossed
to the Continent. One of the number,
young Busby, of the Commercial Bank of
Sydney, is. now reluctantly working for the
enemy, doing odd farming jobs. As he is
likely to be kept at it till the war ends, he’ll
be able to speak with great authority when
he tells us how he liked black bread and a
clout on the head if he dawdled.
Miss Shard, a Sydney girl who was on a
trip to Fiji when the enemy was snorting
round the adjacent reefs, is back in town.
Unfortunately, her experiences, mostly
humorous, would be considered contraband
of war by the censor, so they must be kept in
cotton wool till the trouble blows over.
Headmaster Herlihy is steering a free ex-
hibition of infant effort to a successful ter-
minus in Newtown Public School. Inspector
Dawson opens the show on December 3 at
2.15 p.m.
Mr. Ted Smith, of a well-known Orange
(N.S.W.) family, is seeing service with an
Australian expedition at Spitzbergen, near
Timbuctoo, which is close to Fiji. To get
to the place you first take the penny ferry
from Marathon to Waterloo, and then you
mount a cycle of Cathay and ride the rest of
the distance. (This information is intended
to please the Censor and delude the enemy.)
The sporting Smith, who grew a long waving
beard during a three weeks’ series of skir-
mishes, has recently had a narrow escape of
passing in his last account. He was riding
through a jungle as despatch-bearer, when
he was vociferously fired at by an angry
white gentleman and two brown or striped
ditto. (All the aborigines are striped in
that country, except those who are check,
hence the large sale of check pills for striped
people.) All three were bad shots, but some
Unitarian (they are all Unitarians there-
abouts) contrived to wound the horse. In
falling it rolled over its rider and broke two
or three of his legs or ribs. Smith shot the
poor beast and contrived to escape, the armed
white Baptist and the two painted Hebrews
having left. They were last seen making
for Gibraltar. Smith bears a more or less
charmed life, as he was wounded in the
South African argument of years ago. The
Orange fighting man acted as one of the
escort who took the gallant “Bobs” to the
temporary grave of his only son on the
veldt. He had the usual tribute to fling at
the late favorite, who saw that on the jour-
ney his escort was fed and comfortably
housed, and the horses attended to before
he had a bite himself.
Bess Morris (Mrs. J. N. Tait) sent some
of her work to the Societe des Beaux Arts
in Brussels just before the row began. A
miniature called “The Sisters” is amongst
other trophies likely to be interned or melted
down in the Belgian city before the execu-
tion of William.
Trina Carroll, whose papa represents the
Commonwealth in Switzerland, got away
with first place in . a recent Swiss matric.
exam. The Australian girl is going to study
medicine at the Basle ’Varsity.
Dr. P. J. Kelly, who is locum tenens for
Dr. Horsfall —now serving his country—has
put the same old question to Miss Irene
McDermott. The Randwick girl, who is a
daughter of the Alfred McDermotts, said
“yes,” and the wedding occurs before New
Year’s Day. Dr. Kelly is a son of Mr. Tom
Kelly and the late Mrs. Kelly, of Wellington
—the Maoriland place where you tie your
hat on with a clothes line before you go
round the corner.
Mrs. Kirchner, who used to be Miss Jennie
Walker, of this town, was in Switzerland
when our last mail left the other side. She
was on her honeymoon trip in Europe when
the war began, so her German husband was
pounced on by his excited country. As
Kirchner had been so much away from his
native land that his drill had presumably
got rusty, he wasn’t sent to the carnage,
lie was doing civilian duty in Berlin some
weeks ago. Whether he will be rushed into
the smoke later on is still on the laps of the
gods, and before the end comes the enemy’s
gods are likely to fling out every man who
can pull a trigger. Meantime Mrs. Kirchner
is with her mother-in-law sheltering under
Swiss neutrality.
Before shutting up their annual exhibi-
tion the Women Painters were on view at a
final tea party on Saturday afternoon. The
rooms used this year had the light side-
ways on, and when the floor space was
mostly filled with summer millinery and
musical items, spectators had some difficulty
in stalking art. The exhibition suffered from
being the least of three art-shows simul-
taneously raging in this city. The best
artists had sent their worst efforts to this
junior society ; the worst artists (If
my courage fails and I stop, thank goodness,
there’s the censor and I can blame him.)
Miss Ethel Stephens sold her serious canvas,
“Black and Gold,” to the National Gallery
for 52 guineas ; and an attractive little patch
of Mentone by Alice E. Morton is to hang at
the same address. Artists Mrs. Emily Paul,
Miss Elliott, A. Hedley Parsons and Miriam
Phillips helped to slay the fatted cream puff
on Saturday afternoon.
Violet Teague, the daughter of a well-
known Melbourne doctor, was amongst the
few exhibitors of note at the Women
Painters’ Show in Sydney. Her full-length
portrait of a lovely lady in a woodland is all
shimmer of silk and glint of sunshine. I
fancy the Victorian girl, who had some
training in other parts, must have lost her
heart to the Gainsborough period. The
notion of posing a subject in a leafy arbor
has more points about it than sitting the
victim with her head against a brick wall.
The Garcia School of Music, of which
Mrs. Christian is the chief, held its annual
rally in the Town Hall the other evening.
Proceeds go to the patriotic cause. A hall
comfortably filled fiercely applauded every
item. That restless little animal, the Boy
Scout, backed up by a juvenile sailor con-
tingent, chattered volubly in the organ seats
while budding sopranos and contraltos
attacked ambitious trills, and enraged per-
sons in the back of the building said
“Hush-sh.” Why this new terror. Small
Boy, should be rushed to the front of every
patriotic fray in our Town Barn goodness
only knows.
Singer Alice Naylor had a waggon-load
of blooms, and the youthful Vera Scott was
also rewarded with flowers by admiring
friends for her valiant effort to sing “Batti,
Batti” with Scouts chattering like magpies
in the roosts above. Grace Palotta lent her
aid to the programme, which was wearing
toward the end of the first lap at 10 p.m.
Auctioneer Arthur Rickard got a 16-guinea
bid for a Belgian flag—the poor old public
can’t go on interminably paying £lOO for a
bit of bunting. The usual official personages
were patiently anchored on the special bit
of Axminster, the Knight McLinen being
in the largest and most important chair.
Miss Una Ackmafi is going through the
usual festive pre-matrimonial round of kit-
chen teas and the like. She gets into her
bridal plumage on December 22. The groom
is a Sydney man—Mr. Bert Hyman.
The Philharmonic Society’s outbreak at
the usual address kept conductor ,J. Bradley
busy the other evening. Sometime or other he
may hurl himself right out of his swallow-tail
coat —he very nearly did it at the latter end
of “The Hymn of Praise” on November 26.
Muriel Barton was first soprano in this
classic warble. Mary Bourke, the second
soprano, has too many sharp corners to her
voice to set the harbor ablaze. Tenor George
Castles was a safer contributor to the
“Hymn of Praise” than when he held forth
on his own in Handel’s immortal “Where’er
You Walk.” This was an irritating, jumpy
performance. The vociferous tenor seemed to
have a small frog in his throat at one crisis,
and the stately air has no use for such
casualties.
The veteran Dr. Charles Mackellar is
resigning the presidency of the State Chil-
dren’s Relief Board, where he has done
splendid service not only for the kid, but for
the Commonwealth as well.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


HARDY BROTHERS
LIMITED,
VICE-REGAL
M
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
SILVER CHAIN PURSES.
A DAINTY CHRISTMAS GIFT.
Silver Chain Purse, width
at top, inches.
19/-
Selections forwarded to the
Country on approval if
desired.
Illustrated Christmas List,
Containing over 200 sug-
gestions, sent post free on
application.
The Company has a very fine selection of
these Chain Bags and Parses both in Gold
and Silver in the Newest Designs.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
n
MM
gSKS
WmmM
A
1
Si
m
HH
Silver Chain Bag; width of frame, 4 inches;
£2/10 1-
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY; 116-118 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
LONDON AGENCY: 32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET, W.
Hotelkeepers and Caterers—Are you interested in a
Big Profit-making Proposition?
YRU
The Nelson “BANKER” Carbonating Machine.
We call it the “HANKER” because it’s sucli a splendid investment. It has no equal as
a profit increases It’s your best partner. It takes no share of the profit, nor holds up ite hand
every week. It works faithfully from morning to night—at your will — MAKING PROJ ITS
—big profits, too. . ,
There’s hardly a day passes but that we receive letters expressing praise tor the
“BANKER.” There are crowds all over Australia who have “made good” and claim that
the “BANKER” has been the principal factor in their success.
And it’s not difficult to see the reason why—when they are able to make Aerated Waters tor
£4 for which they used to pay the manufacturers £20 —and better Aerated Waters at that.
This is not mere advertising la Ik. It’s proven fact. We’ll be only too happy to demonstrate
the fact if you’ll give us the opportunity. ...
Before you spend another pennv on any other scheme it s your first duty to investigate
the Nelson “BANKER” before the summer advances any further. Every day you delay you
put back the hand of “beneficent opportunity”—you lose heavily. There is absoMely no invest-
ment possible for vou that will yield you anything like the profits of the Nelson BANKER.
Perfectly made, easy to handle, never causes trouble, worth MORE than its weight in
gold. It will cost you nothing to find out all about it, so why not drop us a line NOW!
BORDEN’S MALTED MILK. “The Milk that makes you strong.” Unequalled for
its nourishing and appetising properties. Get in and supply the big demand.
COCA-COLA. The drink that’s got the public by the throat —a refreshing pick-me-up
for Summer days.
The craze everywhere. Order a sample gallon and give it a trial.
NELSON CARBONATING CO. LTD.,
219 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. Also at Turbot Buildings, Turbot Street. Brisbane.
Three of the Famous
Pianos at Pianola Hall.
&/>e Stecß
Z5/>e Stroud
Tshe Weber
Not only the Pianola but the
best PIANOS in the world are
sold at Pianola Hall
famous Pianos sold at Pianola Hall can be purchased with or without the
T Pianola action. You have the privilege of buying instruments that are
unsurpassed in tone, in construction, in design and style—Pianos that set
■==- an absolute standard in their respective classes.
The Steck, the Stroud, and the famous. Weber are Pianos of unquestioned quality.
So, even if you do not want the Pianola, it will pay you to choose the piano that
has been proved sufficiently high in quality to be combined with this celebrated
player-action. We could not afford to associate the Pianola with anything but the
best in Pianos. That fact is your safeguard.
The tremendous commercial power of the Pianola organisation, and the vast scope
of its operations, have reduced its manufacturing and distributing costs to a
minimum. Certainly no concern in the music trade is in a position to give higher
intrinsic values at lower comparative selling prices, nor to maintain more liberal
and progressive policies towards customers.
Here are three great Pianos, each in a variety of styles offering a choice that makes
your selection sure to be satisfactory. Will you come in and try these pianos for
yourself, or would you like us to post an illustrated catalogue?
Used Pianos from 20 Guineas.
New Pianos from 55 Guineas.
Which may be purchased on small deposit and easy payments.
The Pianola Company also make the won-
derful Piamola, which is incorporated
into the Steinway, the Steek, the Stroud
and the famous Weber Pianos. These
Pianola Pianos can be played by hand
or mufjic roll—priced as low as 120
Guineas.
The Pianola Company,
357 George Street, SYDNEY,
Next David Jones, Ltd.
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Buyers of Pianola Pianos frequently ask
us to take their pianos in part payment
for the combined instrument. That is
why you can get slightly-used pianos at
Pianola Ball for Prices much below their
original figure.


Special Purchase of TUNIC SHIIRTS
RRS.
*
Farmer’s, having made a special purchase of a
quantity of Men’s Tunic Shirts, are able to offer
exceptional value in these goods. The faultless
cut, perfect finish and high quality of the shirts will
satisfy the demand of the most critical buyers. These
garments are made of good, stout Cambric in light
grounds, with neat Block and Fancy Stripes of Blue,
Brown, Black and Green. Thev have soft fronts, stiff
cuffs and neckbands.
va'lue, 1 ” 5/6 each.
When ordering please quote the number, RRS.
We Pay the Carriage.
FARMER’S, Sydney.
PITT, MARKET and GEORGE STREETS.
5/6
each.
Our boys, whether they go to .Egypt or
Berlin, are certain to put up a record of
Australian grit, skill and resourcefulness,
qualities which are ably supported by that
wise spirit, King George IV. topnotch
Scotch.*
Missing Friends.
WANTED to know the whereabouts of
my uncle, who left Belfast. Ireland,
20 (twenty) years ago. for the Continent,
possibly Australia. Son of William Gaw
Dalzell inquires. H. DALZELL, Chinese
Maritime Customs, Honan, Canton, China.
Public Notices.
THE PATENTEE of Australian Patent No. 20258 of
1 December 21, 1914 (M. Rumely Company), for
“Improvements in Carburetters and Process of Car-
buretting Air therein,” is prepared to enter into
negotiation for and to complete arrangements by way
of license or otherwise on reasonable terms with
any persons desiring to exploit or to adopt and
carry on such invention in Australia.
Inquiries to be addressed to —
W. J. SPRUSON,
Patent Attorney, 91 Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
New South 'Wales.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 30, 1914.
My Dear Yarrxe, —
Relatives of the Miss Winter-Irving, who
married a Turk belonging to the London
Embassy staff, deny heatedly that she has
been bow-strung, or even so much as bas-
tinadoed. She is in Constantinople, and
feeling as happy as a girl can be with the
imminent prospect of her husband’s native
city being blown to pieces.
A superb assortment of Governors is
promised for the patriotic opera matinee on
December 5, also a fine set of Consuls, and
one of the most peerless collections of
mayors in the history of the State. All
for 55.! The secretary of the show is
Tommy Cochrane—not to know whom is to
argue yourself unknown, if not an outcast.
Miss Butler-George, the young Tasmanian
miniature painter, who went to England
recently, has become engaged. There is
only one engagement-route in Britain these
days, and Miss Butler-George took it like a
heroine. She went through a nursing course
in Berkshire, where she was staying with
a Doctor Patterson and his wife, and pre-
sently entered a hospital. The inevitable
wounded warrior transpired, and the rest
was easy.
Mrs. Major James gave a party at the
Overseas Club.to meet Mrs. Andrew Fisher
last week. It was the usual old party.
Everyone was sober, and remained so to the
bitter end. No one got annoyed and threw
the cups about. There was a gratifying
absence of all such things as savage, dogs,
charges of theft and arson, songs, recitations
and piano-playing. The clothes of the par-
ticipants were satisfactory, and the food and
drink ample for all requirements. Energetic
little Mrs. Pearce was there, also Mrs.
Thomas (whose feathers were the cynosure
of every eye that was not employed peering
into a tea-cup or strawberry-dish) and a
number of other ladies well and favorably
known in Parliamentary circles.
I hear on the highest authority that Dr.
Hamilton Russell, who was attached to the
Lady Dudley Hospital staff, is coming back
to Spring-street, Home and Beauty. On
the other hand, an equally altitudinous
expert in such matters assures me that the
silver-haired Adonis with the musical tastes
is taking charge of a new hospital in Paris.
This healing establishment is supposed to
have been started partly with the doctor’s
and partly with subscribed money. You
are hereby given my permission to accept
whichever yarn appeals to you most.
The Herbert Power youth who manages a
cattle-run in the Never-Never country is
getting over typhoid in a Bananaland hos-
pital.
The Chief Electoral Registrar has been
cursing of late. I don’t mean after the
fashion of the outcast who is charged with
“langwidge, yer ’onor, and tearin’ me uni-
form.” No! no! Merely gentlemanly im-
precations of a right-thinking sort, directed
at those who get on the electoral rolls as
late as they legally can. Dozens are guilty
of this offence, or whatever one may call it.
They make the Registrar’s work harder and
deprive him of the satisfaction of prosecut-
ing them.
May Vale Gilfillian is mad on the blue-gum
leaf. It has gained a moral ascendancy over
her. She draws it, paints it and inserts it
into her latest enamels. She claims that it
is a native only of Victoria, and hence is
more emblematic of the State than wattle.
May on the subject of blue-gum resembles
Kaiser William on Culture. Her enthusiasm
is remarkable. She has just completed an
enamel badge for the Women’s Political
Association—a blue-gum leaf on a purple
ground, with gold trimmings. Inspired by
her example I am ordering a blue-gum tennis-
liat.
Mrs. Atlee Hunt denies that her husband
is going to Papua as Administrator or Gov-
ernor. Her story is that he is merely going
on business. Meanwhile she proposes to
stay behind, like another Helen of Troy, and
weave dreams concerning the tropical hat-
feathers w T hich he has been instructed to
bring back.
Beatrice Day is taking the lead in the next
two productions of the Melbourne Repertory
Theatre. “The Philanderer” —a horrible
creation who is supposed to be Ber-
nard Shaw as lie -sees himself in
relation to the ladies —will occur on Satur-
day, Monday and Tuesday (December 5, 7
and S). “Peter’s Mother,” by Mrs. Henry
de la Pasture, ran in London for two years
and in Sydney for two months, when the
Brough-Fleinming Co. produced it there six
years ago. It is to be done by the “Reps.”
on December 12, 14 and 15.
And so Sir John Fuller has been made a
major in the army of military policemen who
are looking after London’s streets. He will
make a lovely policeman, more especially if
he wears his helmet over his left ear, after
the jaunty fashion in which he carried his
bowler hat while here.
Leslie Wilkie starts a 12-day show on
December 1, at 117 Collins-street. Twenty
per cent, of the sales-money goes to the
Red Cross Fund, which gives plutocrats a
chance to be art-lovers and patriots on the
same cheque form.
The Spences, of Longreacli (QA are at
St. Kilda. They have seven daughters.
One by one the girls went off. Last
year two disappeared, almost simultaneously
in the grey mist of matrimony. But
one remains now, and the parents are
beginning tq> look as desolate as Belgians.
The latest to go married a man named Kelly.
I know nothing else about him, and may be
wrong even in the matter of his name, but
I hand you the thrilling news for what it is
worth. As regards another daughter I am
on safer ground. She married a Howatson,
and he is a brother-in-law of Nancy Grice
that was. I don’t know why the others
wedded, but I understand they were all
highly desirable and that an effect of the
alliances is to enable Mr. and Mrs. Spence
to get free board and lodging, if they want
it, which they don’t, pretty well anywhere
from Warwick to Cape York.
The pupils of Mrs. and Miss Green will
brilliant display of fancy dancing on
the 7th of next month. Anyhow, the pupils
say it is going to be brilliant, and they should
know. If you want to watch them it will
cost you Bs. ; and, if the thought of separat-
ing yourself from so much money stings,
you may gain comfort from the reflection
that it is going to the Red Cross Fund, and
that most of the local Governors propose to
face the music in the Cause of Empire.
Bishop Higgins, of Ballarat, has bought,
for R.C. purposes, the finest mansion of the
old goldfields, left by Bailey, the mining
man, who spent £20,000 on it. The marble
staircase alone cost £2OOO. Bailey is best
remembered by the terrific litigation of Lear-
montli v. Bailey over the Mount Egerton.
The allegation was that defendant, who was
manager for the Learmontlis, concealed the
richness of the property till he had secretly
partnered with a bank manager and others
in buying it. They settled it somehow —
how doesn’t matter; and it doesn’t concern
Bishop Higgins’s bargain, anyway.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The Melba concert was worth £1250 4s. sd. to
the Cause. The Exhibition only missed a prosecu-
tion for overcrowding itself by a margin of one.
Farthings were sold and re-sold, flags auctioned, and
all the usual devices employed to separate the super-
affluent from the superfluous. Melba sang to us from
a wonderful garment of silk that was almost rose-
colored but not quite. ‘She almost made an im-
pressive display of diamonds. Pianiste Doris Madden
was in something soft and white, with a touch of
color at the waist. Everyone was there, from the
Galways to the sort of people who expect three
encores with each item for their entrance money, and
who clap and stamp till they are humored.
The Morphettville Races on Saturday allured the
Governor and Colonel Dean, but few others of social
moment. And yet the weather was good. Are we
becoming wowsers or insolvents, or what? Yellow
Amber and Aurie paid £42 and £27 dividends
respectively. llow long is it since a bookie laid
anyone 40 to one about a winner?
Poor Captain Wright, who is just reported killed
in action, was in the 3rd Dragoon Guards. He had
only recently left Egypt for the Front. He was
A.D.C. to the Bosanquets, and married the second
daughter of the T. E. Barr Smiths not long before
he left Adelaide. Since then he had been mostly
in England, where Mrs. Wright is now, and in
Egypt. He was one of the most popular Aides S.A.
ever knew. Mrs. Wright’s brother, who had been in
England for some' months, returned only a mail or
so ago.
Dr. John Corbin left during the week for Mel-
bourne and a hospital corps. His wife will stay
with her people while he is away. Dr. Newland,
Dr. T. G. Wilson and Dr. Powell are also going.
The Adelaide Poetry Recital Society met at the
Arcadia ( ate on Monday evening to hear a paper
by Lady Galway on “Song and Strife.” The Gover-
nor, who is patron of the society, was there with
Miss D’Erlangter and Miss Macaulay and Mr. Mul-
holland, and in the audience were P. McMahon Glynn,
Paris Nesbit and the Rev. W. H. Winter.
Miss Harvie, of Sydney, has started an Adelaide
branch of her organisation for looking after the
comfort of the military horses. A committee has
been appointed, with Mrs. J. R. Anderson as
treasurer and Miss Ethel Wyatt as secretary.
The will of E. F. Belt was last week sworn not to
exceed £ 40,000-odd.
Arthur Kingston Stewart, who, as Arthur Otto and
a teacher of music, was well known in Adelaide a
year or so ago, has made a hit in London with
“Our Country’s Call.” He has also written a song
specially for Maurice Farkoa—the fascinating person
with the white forelock.
Last week I told you that “The lady who
was Ivy Bickford before she married Lionel
Muston is here with a four-year-old son.”
If I hadn’t been such a dreadfully bad judge
of infants’ ages I should have told you that
baby is not four years, but only 10 weeks
old. Father’s name, by the way, is not
Lionel but Laurence.
The Overseas Club —with whom, as you no
doubt know, Patriotism is a hobby—gave a
concert for the Cause, as promised. There
was a blinding array of gubernatorial names
on the programme, but none of the owners
turned up. It was not altogether that they
had had some before —about 150 times before
—but rather that they were all out of Mel-
bourne. However, Society was there all
right. I both saw it and heard it talking
during the different items. Miss Butler
George ran the show, and, incidentally,
brought out a debutante singer named Ruby
Dixon. Ruby is a pretty girl, who. is
reputed to be affluent, and who possesses a
voice that is all right so long as it keeps
off the high-note herbage. At the concert she
seemed to want to emulate Melba—a rash
aspiration for any contralto. Tenor Gold-
spink and George Chant sang, and the im-
perishable Amadio played both the flute and
the piccolo. The piccolo charmed to a very
delirium of ecstasy a number of scoutlets
who were doing odd jobs about the building.
Their services had been procured by Mayor
McKinley, of Malvern, but they threw the
ecstasy in as a sort of bonus. I had almost
forgotten to mention that Shirley Cook did a
turn a la Margaret Cooper. The audience
filled the hall, and the organisers, after
calculating, in lightning fashion, how many
two bobs went to the square foot, burst into
loud cries of gratification.
A sister-in-law of the patrician Canon
Hughes was fiiied for not enrolling herself.
She considered for a while the idea of refus-
ing to pay and going to gaol as a martyr.
At the end of 24 minutes she decided to pay
up, with the result that the world was robbed
of a certain amount of mild excitement.
The narrow staircase leading from The
Lane to the Austral Salon looked like a
disturbed ant-nest or an agitated fowl-run on
Friday last. ' The occasion was the initial
sitting of the Congress of the National
Council of Women. Lady Stanley was there;
also Mrs. Strong, the Rev. I)r. Charles’s
wife, and Mrs. Bage (who was at the
recent Winimen’s Congress in Vienna), and
many others who are as good as they are
beautiful, and in a number of cases even
more so. I couldn’t identify many of the
best-dressed brigade, on account of the crush ;
but, take it from me, my dear, they were
there. Such a collection of patently-virtuous
costumes simply had to be leavened by some-
thing that smacked of the Flesh and the
Devil.
Harcourt Beatty still holds on to his
special constable’s job in the London Strand.
It is stern work, after the pubs close, as
most of the great city’s drunks traverse this
area on the homeward track. After a man
has picked up four or five score of hopelessly
blithered citizens, and aimed them in the
direction that they seem to want to go, he
feels as though he had done a hard day’s
gardening. In between whiles Harcourt acts
at matinees, and occasionally in the even-
ings.
Lesly Madden is well again. I know
because my Argus eye observed her at a
picture show —not on the film, but actually
in the audience, my dear —only a few days
ago. She wore green, was attended
by three young men (which struck
me as wicked extravagance in these
hard times), and looked lovely. If anyone
comes along next week and proves to me that
this scion of the Madden family has been
away from Melbourne for a month I will
never trust my Argus eye—which is far the
better of the two —again.
Captain Cook (who commanded a good
deal of local interest before the war) is to be
honored at St. Kilda. A bronze statue of
him by John Tweed will be unveiled there
by Governor Stanley early in December.
The divorce suit in which Dr. Tate-Suth-
erland, .of St. Ivilda-road, was involved,
transpired last week. The doctor didn’t
wait for it, but instead left to serve King
and Empire on the battlefield. He was one
of the first of our medical men to immolate
themselves on the altar of duty. Kipling
kippled with sure instinct when he wrote of
our gallant fellows who “leave a lot of
little things behind them.” There are few
things which they relinquish with more
ardor than divorce-suits in which they have
been cast for the role of co-re.
A tremendous effort was made to raise
funds for the Women’s Hospital last week.
Evelyn Ashley, Violet Somerset, Oswald
Itippon, Charles Ledward and a choir sang
and the Lyric Orchestra played. The Ilen-
nessys occupied the section of the Town
Hall which is usually reserved for the
cohorts of vice-regality, and all was enthu-
siasm and self-sacrifice. As the outcome of
a careful inspection, I am in a position to
inform you, without fear of contradiction,
that the Mayor’s fair spouse wore bare shoul-
ders, black hair and several pints of precious
stones. The front rows of seats contained
the kind of people who have their hair
immaculately dressed (if women) and made
the most of (if men). In brief, doctors and
their wives, and such-like respectable, people.
The balcony groaned beneath a load of two-
bobbers. folks who dress anyhow and whose
menkind are hot concerned to make one hair
play the part of ten. The only cloud on. a
festive evening was the notable absence of
Governors. Search as I would I could not
discover so much as one of these useful and
interesting little creatures.
The annual inter-State tennis tournament
raged mildly at the Warehousemen’s Ground
last week. The. spectators were of the
callow order—females mostly, of the kind
that affect blooming complexions and pig-
tails. When I turned up there with my
tablets, ready to make social notes, I mut-
tered “Ichabod” twice into the ear of the
gatekeeper, and departed feeling gloomy. Not
only used grown-ups to visit this institution,
but even Governors frequented it in the
good old days. Carmichael was a
familiar figure, and Dudley used to moon
about in a lounge suit and pick up “out”
balls for the players. As for the Denman
lady, she liked nothing better than bounding
about behind a racket. And now all the
glory has fled.
Captain Stewart-Riehardson, who was a
Dudley A.D.C. for awhile, after he left the
Lamingtons, has been killed. He was a
tall, loose-limbed young man, who wore
kilts at official functions, as only a born-and-
bred Scotsman can. His sister-in-law, Lady
Constance, is the dancer who had a vogue
at the London Palace, and then went to the
U.S. and was something of a frost. _ Cap-
tain Doyle, who was with the Carmichaels,
is also gone.
The painful rumor that the Case —the only
pending lawsuit in which Society here takes
the remotest interest —has been settled out
of court, appears to. be true. Family pressure
was too strong, by all accounts. It says
little for good old British justice that the
public should be done out of a chance to
reflect that it’s ever so much more respectable
than its neighbor.
The Russell Clarkes are still in London,
and likely to stay there for some time to
come. The smart little Sydney lady who
used to entertain at Rupertswood is work-
ing, like the soldier’s daughter that she is,
to relieve the necessitous wounded.
A friend assures me that the Fincliam girl
—meaning thereby the daughter of the
National Bank manager—who was said last
week to be leaving ’’for the West and the
altar” isn’t herself aware of the altar part
of the statement.
One of our Sassiety damsels was for a time
in a London hospital while the wounded sol-
diers were being brought in. Queen Mary
used to turn up every day and parade the
wards, carrying a large gamp clutched firmly
in both hands and held well in front like a
charm or road-sweeper. It appears that she
has a curious, sharp method of speech. Every
sentence emerges like a brisk detonation. No
unnecessary words are used, her staple
phrases being “Yes,” “No” and "Certainly
not.” *
The arrival of Turkey on the war map
drove Miss Alice Grimwade back from
Egypt. Her brother, Norton Grimwade, and
his wife, leave immediately for London, so
as to meet their sons, who are with our
first Expeditionary Force.
Mrs. Ilennessy is organising a raid in aid
of the Women’s Hospital. If well-meaning
people didn’t do this at fairly short intervals
the Women’s and other hospitals would fall
down dead, and the indigent sick would
perish with them. I hope you won’t accuse
me of Disloyalty if I say frankly, as one
literary girl to another, the words: If this is
Private Enterprise, give me the Socialistic
Tiger at its. worst.
Young Jack Gordon is going to be head
of the Clearing Hospital at the front, wher-
ever that is in this extraordinary war. The
hospital in question is a-place of quick-lunch
operations, which is always within 20 miles
or so of the firing line.
It is a sign of the times that St. John’s
Ambulance has started a class at Christ
Church, South Yarra. As a fashionable
craze nursing has pretty well ousted auction
bridge. Sassiety climbers are rolling up
their blouse sleeves and wearing fetching
linen aprons all over the place. The cos-
tume is a great one for a girl with a dimpled
elbow or a neat ankle.
A local singer who has been performing
free, right and left, for the Cause, is annoyed.
Her experience is that while music-
lovers are delighted to listen to her, in shoals,
while she is singing for nothing, they stay
away in overwhelming numbers when her
own concert transpires, saying in their
thoughtlessness: “Oh, we’ve heard her 18
times in the last month already.” Whereby
the poor girl’s daily bread is robbed of its
dash of jam. By the way, soon after the
war started the English musical papers ad-
vised the profesh to cease giving free ser-
vices at concerts. It was suggested that the
topnotchers should allow a discount of 50
per cent, on their ordinary fee, but only on
condition that the small artists were paid in
full.
Veronica Bedford, the 20 year-young com-
poser of the Randolph Bedford family, sings
Orpheus in the opera of “Orpheus and Eury-
dice,” to be played at Her Majesty’s (Mel-
bourne), on December 5. The Eurydice is
Dymphna Ivirkcaldie, and the Eros a new
little girl, Hilda Roper.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.
Maoriland is already bidding, through
Premier Massey, for the artificial manure
business that has its base in some of the
ex-German islands of the Pacific. On what
was recently German territory in the Pacific
phosphate rock is fairly plentiful, and Maori-
land hopes to. use it in making most of its
own fertilisers. Hitherto what hasn’t come
from Mount Lyell has mostly come directly
or indirectly from Germany—compounded of
substances scraped off Maoriland’s own door-
step.
The S. M. Herald, the other day, told
Australia the war-lessons it ought to learn.
Naturally the first of them was a humble
sense of dependence : “In the matter of de-
fence we should .be nowhere without the
British fleet. Our trade could not traverse
the seas for a single day without the back-
ing of that huge machine. Economically,
too, we are wholly dependent on the Old
World.” The unwise old paper might, at
least, have saved us that. Our economic
dependence is mostly the fault of people who
conduct papers, like the Herald in the
interest of the importer and the foreign
money-lender. If the war in Europe has
made our base metals unsaleable it is only
because the Herald, with its friends and
backers, has been able, for the benefit of the
importers, to keep the Australian tariff low
enough to prevent the establishment of in-
dustries.


i)
n:
%nm
r£^
m.
*
A
M
,A
a m
s' 4 .
w#*§
{m*K
m
sr
%
ist
:■•;■•■
: >
■
«
M
J? 2
s«Spr
In the future,
sec the wine is


TOOK FRIENDS’ ADVICE.
KIDNEY AND LIVER TROUBLES TER-
MINATED BY DR. MORSE’S INDIAN
ROOT PILLS.
“I consider Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
a wonderful remedy for Kidney and Liver
Trouble,” writes Mrs. Lily Malthouse, of
Clyde Lane, off McArthur Street, North
Ballarat. “I was a sufferer for years, and
tried almost everything to regulate my liver,
without any success. Some of my friends
advised trying Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills, and with some diffidence I took them.
To my astonishment, I became rapidly
well again, and would not be without them
in my house. I speak of Indian Root
Pills as I found them, an excellent remedy.
In the case of my family I find they regulate
the system and prevent many of the ills so
common with children. You can use these
few lines for publication if deemed advis-
able.”*
Nothing can surpass
HORROCKSES’
SHEETINGS for
durability
When Buying see HORROCKSES’ name on Face-plait,
and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS. 2
DANIELL
HOTEL-
niHimniiniiiiif
Lc\[|
BRISBANE,
POLITICAL
POINTS
CAMP FOLLOWERE.
“We fought every increase in the Navy,
but without a big Navy we might become
even now as Belgium. We have protested
against the egregious folly of ever sending a
British Expeditionary Force abroad, but
without that force the mailed fist of Germany
might by now have struck down France.” —
The Friend, the British organ of the
Quakers, sitting on the stool of repentance,
with sackcloth on its hack and ashes in its
heard.
Melbourne Argus, writing of the possi-
bility of recent fires on ships in Australian
waters being caused by German stevedores or
sailors, wants to know why every British
ship isn’t manned by a crew of “British-born
seamen.” The reason’s easy; because too
many British owners read papers like the
Argus, and then offer wages and conditions
that no decent Britisher will willingly look
at.
George Reid’s term as High Commissioner
is to be extended for another year. A daily,
which was one of his warmest supporters in
the past, put the case for the extension this
way : “At his advanced age it would be im-
possible for him to either re-enter politics or
resume his profession with profit.” Not par-
ticularly powerful reasons why a man should
be an ambassador, when you come to brood
over them.
Robert Hollis, who looks after the interests
of the railwaymen in the N. S. Wales
Assembly, is hurt: —
I am ashamed of Mr. Holman. .. .1 am ashamed of
the gentlemen who constitute his Cabinet for having
adopted the low-down, dirty, miserable tactics which
Liberal Governments have adopted time after time—
the putting of the burden of retrenchment on the
bottom dog.
Hollis said the only thing that induced him
to continue supporting the Government was
the fact that the Opposition was a still
poorer crowd. Party Government seems to
have made a nice mess of things.
By way of encouraging the German attack,
somebody has asked Premier Asquith in the
House of Commons, whether it is true that
from 30 to 40 per cent, of the British army
in France is “suffering from preventible dis-
ease, due to drink and other causes.” It was
much the same thing as asking the Berlin
newspapers to state in large type that the
British troops are admittedly rotten, or
words to that effect. But Asquith accepted
the question as a typical expression of Brit-
ish character, and assured his questioner
that the sick rate in the army is aibout 125
per 1000.
The retirement of J. J. Calvert, Clerk of
N.S.W. Parliament, revives the fact that the
hereditary principle still prevails in this
branch of the public service—the last refuge
from the competitive system of the P.S.
Board. The fine old octogenarian official’s
place is to be filled by W. L. S. Cooper,
usher of the Black Rod, and son of a past
Upper House clerk, with C. H. 11. Calvert,
son of the retiring clerk, as next in com-
mand ; while W. E. Clapin, son of a former
Legislative Council official, is to do the ush-
ing. The ancient Calvert, for his part, pro-
poses to get busy on a book of Parliamentary
reminiscences.
Premier Peacock’s ideas of “reforming”
the Victorian House of Rich Landlords are
almost explosive in their violence. As neither
he nor anyone else can pass progressive
measures while the House of Landlords con-
tinues its obstructive policy, he proposes to
“liberalise” the House by reducing the fran-
chise to the ratepayers’ roll and cutting down
the members’ qualification from £5O to £2O
annual valuation of real property. Gold,
debentures, bank deposits, tramway shares,
factory plant, and so forth, are no good;
only the man who owns land has brains and
legislative ability. The revolutionary idea
would obviously make the House of Stodge
a body of hare-brained reformers and raving
anarchists; and it drove the Argus to re-
mark that it would rather see the citadel
levelled to the ground than turned into such
an inferno of a volcano.
Captain George Ritchie, S. Australia’s new
Minister for Works and Water Supply, the
tall, sprightly, bald headed member for Alex-
andra, accepts the portfolio while Adelaide
is almost famishing for water. Before he
entered Parliament in 1902 he had traded
on the River Murray for many years, so he
ought to know something about the fluid that
Adelaide nowadays scrapes with a stick out
of a tap. “Dismal Dick” Butler, S. Australia’s
Ministerial Jonah, has quitted the Water
Supply and Public Works Administration,
where he has had the badgering of his life
because of the inadequate water provision,
for the Lands Department. Crawford
Vaughan and his Labor colleagues are rejoic-
ing. They are going to score in the coming
State elections over this water famine —for
which, of course, they blame Peake and
acquit Providence entirely.
An idea appears to prevail in some ill-
informed quarters that the time of the great-
est war in all history—the time when most
things that are of any value to us are hang-
ing in the balance—is not an occasion for
special energy and self-sacrifice, but rather
one for special eating and drinking and loan-
mongering. The fitting-out of Australian
transport ships at Cockatoo Dock, Sydney,
has been partially hung up by a demand for
double wages for night work. (Extra wages
were paid, of course, but double wages were
regarded by the haggard Minister for Defence
as something beyond his means.) And N.S.W.
State Minister Griffith says that the Broken
Hill miners for whom he found employment
on the Broken Hill-Menindie railway have
such a fixed idea that war-time is synony-
mous with holiday-time that the cost of shift-
ing a cubic yard of soft soil runs as high as
Bs. 6d., whereas the old day-labor rate
usually amounted to 35., or 3s. 6d., or some-
times 4s. A very bitter Griffith says that he
can’t afford to pay twice the usual figure
simply because the country is harder up than
usual. Yet Griffith is a noble borrower who
seldom boggles over an odd sixpence so long
as Posterity has to pay the sixpence.
There is jubilation in England over the
success of the great war loan of £oSO,OOO.CLU.
About £600.000,000 was forthcoming. It is
a lot of money to offer; from the other point
of view it is a lot of money to lose. When
King Croesus displayed his treasure befoie
Solon, that unpleasant person remarked:
“If another should come with better iron,
he will take all this gold.” Solo-’s remark
is recommended to (among other people)
Lloyd George, who of late b..s seemed, in-
clined to forget the need of national hob
through constantly thinking of what the
nation possesses in gold.
Nobody can tell to what extent the suc-
cess of Premier Peacock at the Victorian
State elections was due to the support which
Premier Holman of N.S.W. gave to his oppo-
nents. Holman, with his deficits, his huge
borrowings from Private Enterprise finan-
ciers, his schemes for handing over the work
of railway construction to an English firm
of Private Enterprisers, his enthusiasm for
the Private Enterprise bookmaker as against
the Socialistic tote, his applause for cheap
labor imports, his tolerance of the Tory
Upper House, his anti-Federalism, his truck-
ling to the Sydney landlords and traders,
and his constant struggle to find a payable
billet fpr his old friend Nielsen, looks a
much better enemy than friend these days.
Peacock of Victoria is a rather dull sort of
mediocrity, but the disapproval of Private-
Enterprise Holman gives him a sort of halo.
WHEN NATURE IS IN ERROR.
In regard to the portrait of George Reid the com-
mittee adopted the following motion: —
“This work has been accepted by the Board’s repre-
sentative in London, where it has been on public
exhibition. The Board is of opinion that its repre-
sentative in London should be informed that the
work is particularly unsatisfactory and a caricature
upon the distinguished gentleman it is supposed to
represent. It has met with much criticism, which
is likely to bring discredit upon the artist and the
Board. For these reasons it is not considered advis-
able to exhibit the painting publicly at present.”
(The artist was Lambert.)
THE ARTIST (musing): “ Dignity! Dignity!
What is that old gag anent a silk purse
and a sow’s ear? ”
Apparently the Commonwealth Govern-
ment got the straight tip from someone that
the £18,000.000 which John Bull was lend-
ing mustn’t be handed over to the States to
be used in place of the ordinary lOU money.
J. Bull evidently reckons that this isn’t a
time when he ought to be leaned on by a
young, productive country which hasn’t suf-
fered a penn’orth of damage from the actual
fighting. But the young, productive country
has so got into the habit of leaning that its
present leaders mostly don’t know how to do
anything else. Hence a scheme has been
arranged by which, though the States may
not get Bull’s £18,000,000 directly, they are
to get it or some of it indirectly. The
Commonwealth borrows £18,000,000 from
J. Bull “for war purposes.” Then the
Commonwealth lends Holman and the others
£18,000,000. After that, since the Common-
wealth mustn’t lend Bull’s £18,000,000, it
borrows at least £10,000,000 in gold from
the Australian banks, on the strength of the
loan from J. Bull, and passes this Austra-
lian money on to the hungry, loafing States.
It is a case of borrowing money from Smith
to lend to Jones; but as Smith stipu-
lates that his money shall not be lent
to Jones, the trouble is got over by call-
ing in Brown. First, Smith’s money is lent
to Brown, and then Brown lends the money
to Jones, so Jones gets the money and the
original stipulation that Jones mustn’t get
Smith’s money is honorably observed. The
only difference is that the Australian banks,
representing Brown, borrow paper and pay
in gold. That part of the transaction is ail
right so long as the gold stays in the country.
If it goes out, then there - ,will be trouble by
and bye.
“The ashes of burned towns scattered
around an artificial inland sea.” — Condensed,
description of the low-lying parts of Belgium
since the German Homicide passed that way
on his road to perdition.
THE REWARD.
The Fisher Government has extended George Reid s
term of office for another 12 months. —Item of news.
HIGH COMMISSIONER REID: “I here ain't the
dinners in it there used to be. But I
suppose I’ll get a medal as a war corres-
pondent.”
Crawford Vaughan, the Opposition leader
in 8. Australia’s almost defunct Parliament,
will come close up. to being Premier within
the next six months, if he doesn’t actually
get there. The rather brilliant young man
has passed through his first full session as
leader with flying colors. Intellectually he
is the best equipped of the Labor leaders 8.
Aus. has had; physically he doesn’t look too
well. Still he is wiry, and more active than
any man in the State Ministry. He has the
saving grace of good manners in controversy,
and, besides doing fine party work with his
ready tongue, makes effective use of the local
party press.
Frank Madden came out of his eave dui“
ing the Vic. election, and made a speech at
Caulfield. Naturally he was against any
proposal to lower the franchise for the Leg.
Council; and the Greater Melbourne scheme
“should not be rushed through, but allowed
to evolve itself”; and he was against the
initiative and referendum; and quite natur-
ally he was “proud that he had always
opposed the totalisator.” It all recalls the
time when a National Defence League was
formed in Melbourne. And Speaker Frank
couldn’.t help because he held the quaint idea
that the Australian Socialists were building
the navy with a view to firing first shot at
the British fleet. And now, the Emden,
having since been heard of. you have the
dear old battler of Caulfield hollering for
three cheers for everything in that proces-
sion, and pretending he led it all the time.
Wait a little while, and, true to his class, he
will be just as proudly hooraying for all the
other things he is now proud to oppose.
THINGS WOODEN .
The fact that trees have no votes, and that the
average politician is heedless of the future, evidently
means that our forest reserves will be steadily filched.
The politician finds no kudos attached to timber con-
servation, but great is the glory of getting some land
thrown open locally. One member is stated to have
suggested, on Tuesday night, that 4,000,000 acres of
the 7,508,938 acres that constitute our forest reserves,
should be thrown open. When we find men capable
of holding such shortsighted and suicidal views
having a voice in making the laws of the country, the
prospects for a future timber supply seem hopeless
indeed.—S. M. Herald.
A VISION OF LOANS GONE WRONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
We believe in the Treasurer keeping the Govern-
ment as free as possible to negotiate loans whenever
opportunity occurs. — Sydney Telegraph.
What are the years to the stars,
Or the waves to the sea ?
What are the beers to the bars,
Or the hops to the flea ?
Nothing—and so are the loans of the Ma State to
You and to Me.
Brethren, we who have dwelt
Amid loans all our lives ;
We who, astonished, have felt
For cash sneaked by wives
Out of our pockets by night, can feel for the fellow
who strives.
Do we not see, as in dream,
Premiers hard-pressed?
Weaving some fairy-like scheme,
By Luck to be blessed—-
Raising by magical means loans of proportions
unguessed ?
Ay! and they handle the gold
Of their fancy with joy;
Such men will never grow old,
Or feel our annoy.
Care-free they look at cold Cash with the eyes of a
boy!
Strive ? Oh, they strive might and main!
See the peaks that they touch!
They build noble castles in Spain
(Though these cost rather much),
But only the sordid complain at the payment for
such!
Beautiful Premiers with “soul”
And Skye-terrier eyes,
Urging to some distant goal
Or pawnshop, arise !
Hark! Ah, the beautiful talk —’twere a shame to be
wise.
Nightly these leaders retire
(Oh, yes—only to bed)
To dream of the Loans they desire
That our souls may be fed ;
Your soul and mine, with true fire which can never
be dead!
“On, on!” Their voices ring out,
Sound down the years!
Hark to their jubilant shout
(Words only— never beers!).
“Forward! Away with doubt! Only the craven
fears 1”
Brethren, is it not grand,
The call to the strife?
Millions seem near at hand ;
Oh, this is Life!. .. .
Loans ! Loans ! —seems hard to stand, (tone ! the last
cent out of my pants pockets. Damn the wife!
N.S.W.
WILLIE JAGGERS.


A Brilliant British Piano
THE
SAMES
I K|
PIP!
■ Si
I y, '■'f*' 1
Artistic in Tone Quality
Responsive in Touch
Thorough in Workmanship.
PIANOS are constructed on the best and latest
methods known in the art of pianoforte making, with
the highest efficiency and care in workmanship, combined
with the finest materials*
{JJAMES PlANOS—British-built—embrace a T I the essential
features that extreme climates demand, Delightful Tone
Quality, Perfection in Touch, great Durability, and
Distinctive Designs of the highest order,
S°, WELL are we satisfied with SAMES PIANOS
that we recommend them with the utmost confidence
to our clients, and fully guarantee each instrument*
PIANOS will appeal to you as a sound and
honest proposition* We allow utmost honest value on
old pianos taken in part payment, VERY EASY TERMS*
Paling’s Easy Terms are Helpful.
Come and see the beautiful models we are
now displaying - in our Showrooms. They are
most artistic in tone and finish, and will
certainly delight you when you hear
them played. Call early or write for
Catalogue 8 Price List Post Free.
f A
o
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.
And at
Brisbane
Newcastle
Lismore
Toowoomba
Sole Agents for
VICTOR PIANOS and
PLAYER PIANOS; also
RONISCH, LIPP,
BELLING PIANOS and
ESTEY ORGANS.
-Electric Power-
We can suit your requirements
in all
Power Generating and
Transmitting Machinery.
Prime Movers, Control Gear,
Distribution Apparatus,
Dynamos, Motors, Couplings,
Machine-cut Gears, etc.
COMPLETE PLANTS
INSTALLED.
-High - Efficiency-
Gearing.
Difficult speed problems in Power
Transmission can often be solved
by the interposition of properly
SELECTED GEARS.
WE CAN QUOTE on such
propositions with SCIENTIFI-
CALLY DESIGNED and
Soundly Constructed
Double Helical Gears.
Single and Double Reduction
Worm Gearing.
Send us your inquiries.
M
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence St., Sydney.
(MELBOURNE) PROPRIETARY LTD., 499-501 Bourke St., Melbourne
Selling Agents CH AS. E. BERNAYS, 45 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
STEELE <a BAKER, Adelaide; J. W. R. GARDAM, Perth.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents : RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOCRLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Just one taste of B.L. will prove its high quality.
BULLOCH LADE (“BL”)
Is Good Whisky, and is Good for You.
Is Obtainable Everywhere, but Equalled Nowhere.
ALWAYS SEE S.V.O. WHITE LABEL.
m
fM
mL idWHBBt *2v- v_!:
m-miy.
FLANAGMi'o HOTEL,
Opposite Mycie Park,
Oxford Street, Sydney
• ? n A RLES HERN ON (late of Brisbane) has
just taken over the above Hotel.
EXCELLENT ACCOMMODATION FOR VISI-
TORS. W j ite or wire for rooms.
rERMS: Pe!/ day, Bs. ; per week, 425.
THE BEST HOTEL
TO STAY AT...
when visiting Melbourne is “Scott’s.” Hav-
ing been entirely rebuilt and reconstructed
“Scott’s” figures now as one of the finest
and largest hotels in Australia. At “Scott s
you get both sumptuousness and comfort,
"combined with every modern convenience that
can be wished for. Private attendance
’phones are connected with all rooms, and hot
and cold water service is installed in
bedrooms.
Excellent Cuisine, Music, and Cool, Comfort-
able “Arcade” and Roof Smoking Lounge .
Write or wire for accommodation.
SCOTT’S HOTEL,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Telegrams—“ Scott’s,” Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Tasmania has decided to increase the tax
on Tattersall’s prizes, by way of shearing the sheep
that lays the golden eggs until the well is pumped
dry. The well would be dry already if it wasn’t that
few people have a gift of arithmetic and are capable
of realising how very little real gamble they get for
ss. after all the deductions are made.
* * * *
Horse-racing in N.S.W. continues to get
along despite war, drought and half-time. In the
fixture-list for December 52 race meetings are set
down for 27 different days; and as Ikey Mo will
howl the odds at 99 per cent, of these meetings, some
vague idea can be formed of the lump which the
N.S.W. Government might gather if Premier Hol-
man’s remarkable mental attitude on the subject of
the tote could be changed or called off. Holman’s
latest objection to introducing a Tote Bill is that it
isn’t on the Labor programme. This sudden affection
for the Labor programme is touching. Likewise, it
is bewildering.
“O’Cork”: There have been only three
£lO,OOO Gups to date, viz., in 1890 (Carbine), ’9l
(Malvolio), ’92 (Glenloth). As to The Bulletin
statement that “to-day the added money is £7100,”
that sum would, roughly, represent the value of the
first prize to the winner after deduction of second and
third prizes ; but the actual “added money” is 8000
sovs.
* * * *
“O’Cork” : The loud howl that went sky-
wards a little time back from Sydney’s star jockeys
to the effect that the apprentice allowance, amounting
sometimes to 71b., off the handicapper’s allotment, was
enabling the “mere stable lads” to score an out-
rageous number of wins on local courses, seems to
have died right out. The poor, full-fledged horseman
who marries a fashionable trainer’s most bee-utiful
chee-ild and owns a terrace of houses, motor, etc.,
hath shut his face. And this is why—there is no
apprentice allowance in the A.J.C. Metropolitan nor
in the Melbourne Cup, and the former was won by
apprentice A. Callinan on St. Spasa, and the latter
by apprentice G. Meddick on Ivingsburgh.
Consider how being leased agrees with
some mokes. Posinatus, leased by trainer Chambers
from R. W. Clancy, won, among other things, the
Melbourne Cup; Portrush, similarly leased, won the
A.J.C. Epsom ; Sir Alwynton, leased by J. S. Agnew
from the same Clancy, carrying Bst. 31b., was only
beaten a neck in the fastest Melb. Cup on record,
though he gave the winner 191 b. Clancy, by the way,
resumes possession of Sir Alwynton forthwith. Since
the day after Melb. Cup, the winner, Kingsburgh, has
been held on lease by Baronet William Cooper, who
recently resumed racing in Australia, and a nag can
do better than win Melb. Cup, which is only a glori-
fied handicap, after all.
* * *- *
Part of the game (at odd intervals). A
pub-keeper, not being able to get to the Cup meet-
ing at Christchurch (M.L.), forwarded £3 with in-
structions to invest it on the tote on Indigo in the
M. Cup, and, in the event of success, to re-invest
the proceeds on Obsono in The Stewards’. Indigo
dead-heated with Warstep in the big event, and
landed a bulky dividend, and Obsono won The
Stewards’. Result to the investor, £5OO.
* * * *
Lillyman and Wood head the list of
winning jockeys, for the nast six months, with 14
firsts apiece. McLachlan, the crack of former years
—in fact, he is a crack still —lias only seven wins,
and D. Callinan five. All these boys are pretty well-
in financially. Lillyman in particular has a capacity
for holding on to what he has that approaches genius.
And he has quite a lot. There is nothing of the
dashing spendthrift about the average modern jockey.
The war and other troubles have brought
a slump in entries for the big events at the Christ-
mas and New Year race meetings at Sydney. The
Villiers Stakes and Summer Cup have brought out
29 less than last vear : while Carrington Stakes and
Tatt.’s Cup record a loss of 31.
* * * *
The Australian tennis championship meet-
ing in Melbourne was not much of a guide to the
real champion. With Brookes, Dunlop, Wilding,
Doust and A. B. Jones as non-combatants, the title
“champion of Australia,” which was battled for, may
be regarded as more or less of a joke. Of course, A.
O’Hara Wood, the new “champion,” is a great player ;
but this paper wouldn’t like his chances against (say)
Brookes. Nevertheless by beating Patterson —who had
previously beaten Heath—Wood gets the title; and
there is no provision for challenging him. Campbell
and Patterson (Vic.), by wiping out Heath and A.
O’Hara Wood (the slayers of Rice and Todd, of
N. become “doubles champions of Australia.”
* * * *
At Auckland (M.L.) the other day a
country coachbuilder was accused before the Official
Assignee by his anxious creditors of having wasted
his time playing tennis while the business was
allowed to take care of itself. The aggrieved bank-
rupt contended that his playing court was within
view of the shop, and that anyone who wanted him
could get him without much trouble. To further con-
venience customers, and prevent undue interference
with the alluring pastime, he had employed a man
at 12s. a dav to do the coachbuilding. When the
mail left a staggered Assignee was hurriedly adjourn-
ing the Court for a pick-me-up.
* * * *
Mick King’s victory over Jeff Smith at
Sydney Stadium on Saturday was worth going
through Woolloomooloo to see. It was billed as a
world’s championship affair; but in the present
tangled-up condition of the middle-weight cham-
pionship it is impossible to be definite on the point.
Three things made clear were that (1) King is
unlikely to be outboxed bv anyone at present in the
running; (2) he is unlikely to be knocked out,
because he will always succeed in being elsewhere
when the blow arrives; and (3) he hasn’t got a
punch. The fight was a surprise in every way. Six
months ago Mick King was practically unheard of.
The only people who had heard of him knew him
as a fairly good sparring partner to Jeff Smith.
Jeff Smith, on the other hand, was the man who cut
McGoorty to pieces and nearly knocked him out.
True, the referee’s verdict went to McGoorty, but
lots of people didn’t agree with the verdict.
Another of Smith’s victories was his well-earned
decision against Glabby.
The first round looked as though the fight was
over, Smith lifting King into the air with a
perfectly-swung left hook, and landing him on his
back. However, like Germany’s insult to Britain,
it was the first and also the last, and Smith never
had another look in. The Australian took a count
of two, and then he got up and commenced to box.
At this game Smith was nowhere. King’s head
reminded one of the gasometer at Mons, inasmuch as
it became the target for vast masses of 12in. ammu-
nition, all of which went hurtling by. Smith tried
every kind of hit he knew —hooks, straight lefts and
upper cuts ; dozens of them ; and any one of the lot
would have shattered a public building had it landed.
But King, by beautiful head-work, let them all
whiz by, and on the rare occasions when they did
touch it was only at the fag-end of the punch. King, on
the other hand, was landing freely all the time. Every
attempt by Smith to place one of his terrific left
hooks produced an apparently automatic result —the
hook missed and King landed. Had there been any
real punch behind these incessant blows no
man could have run the 20 rounds against them. As
it was, Smith seemed no more than very exhausted
at the close. King’s preponderating score on
points, when one aggregates his own hits and Smith’s
misses, must have been almost without precedent in
a championship match.
* * * *
W. Applegarth broke into professional
running last Saturday at Manchester, where he
defeated “Jack” Donaldson, of Australia, the “Teased
streak of a hundred tracks. Until a few weeks ago
Applegarth was England’s amateur fastest ped. ; now
he has given up the pursuit of silver cups and doubt-
ful cutlery in order to chase hard cash. Over the
100yds. he left Donaldson in 9 9-10 sec., and lifted
£lOO of the latter’s savings and a purse put up by
the ground proprietor. Another match is certain —
or several other matches.
Some Donaldson times over the 100yds.: 9§sec.
(1910), 9fsec., 9 3-s«ec., 9fsec.
* * * *
Duke Kahanamoku, the bronze swimming
MICK KING ,
Australian middle-
weight pug, who
chased Jeff Smith's
smile away last
Saturday night.
marvel from Honolulu,
is due in Sydney about
the middle of Decem-
ber, which will allow
him sufficient time to
get fit for the N.S.W.
championships on Janu-
ary 2. The fly in the
ointment is the prob-
able refusal of Vic-
torian and South Aus.
Associations to share
the financial burden of
the tour; but Banana-
land has put a broad
shoulder in, and will
help Mother. Maori-
land threatened also to
withdraw from the
venture; but recanted,
so the Ricketty Isles
will be able ito take
Duke to their hospit-
able and unstable
bosom. As the visi-
tor has notified his
willingness to take part
in races from 100yds.
to 440 yds., some
strenuous exercise will
be found for him in
his few weeks’ stay in
Australasia.
There’s some fine trout-fishing this season
at Rotorua (M.L.), where the numerous tourist casts
his fly. The other day four rods on Lake Tarawera
lifted 64 fish, ranging from 41b. upward. Two other
rods brought in 30 beauties, none weighing less than
41b.
* * * *
During a civil action (called civil merely
as a sign of the sarcastic tendencies of the times)
in Maoriland the other day, some deer-stalking trophies
were introduced. One head was estimated (by the
owner) to be worth £1000; four others produced
in court were valued at £350. It is 50-odd years
since deer were introduced to M.L.—to be accurate,
it was in 1862, when Queen Victoria’s Consort,
Albert, forwarded a stag and two hinds each to
Canterbury and Wellington. Since then the pronged
beasts have multiplied, until to-day some of the best
deer-stalking in the world is obtainable in the
Rickettv Isles.
* * * *
In reply to substantial offers to come to
Australia and race Paddon for the world’s sculling
championship, Barry has given his ultimatum: “If
Australians want to relieve me of the title they
must come to the Thames. I hope that will be
sufficient to settle the question once for all.” It
sounds like the final ultimatum of the Shah of
Iceland to the wide world. How different from the
attitude adopted at this end when A rust journeyed to
the Zambesi and Thames to give Barry the chalice to
win the title! Had Arnst been no better “sport” than
Barry it is doubtful if Barry would ever have been
in a position to play at being the Sultan of Cape Cod.
The 78th Anniversary regatta is to he
held in Port jadkson, but the decision was arrived at
only after much heart-searching bv the nromoters. It
costs about £5OO to run a regatta with a flagship,
speeches, binoculars for the captain of the flagship,
! and other frills, without mentioning prizes. The
committee realised that this wasn’t a time to go look*
ing for £5OO, but as there was a balance or £62 last
year it was decided to run a half-day regatta without
a flagship or lunch or etceteras. Clark Island will be
the flagship. „ „
* * *
N.S.W. Amateur Swimming Association
is making an effort •to put more life into its game.
Last season 22 city and 11 country clubs Were under
its wing, and this year’s count Of noses shows a small
decline —in fact, the membership is no better at pie-
sent than it was 14' years ago. Surf-bathing is pro-
bably the cause of the hang-up. Three stalwarts
W. \V ; . Hill, Cecil Healy and E. S. Marks—have
undertaken to find out what ought to he done to
shake things up.
* * * *
From G. Wiiitington (S.A.) : 111 refer-
ence to Captain White’s criticism on the Oodnadatta
pigeon race, I should like to state that if he had
been as keen on finding out the facts as he is in
bringing before the public his marvellous trips into
the “dead heart,” I feel sure he Would not have
made such a sweeping statement as he did. lit my
loft there is ft pigeon that flew Oodnadatta, in 1910 5
Wagga (N.S.W.), in 1911 and 1912; Alburv, in
1913 ; and Benalia, in 1914. The last was flown in
about nine hours. Such performances must surely
prove that our birds ‘ have every care and attention.
The combined efforts of N. S. Wales's
XI and the next-best, in Support of the Patriotic
Fund, concluded on Saturday, attd A fair display
ended with victory for “the best. Oil the first
innings, by 152 i'urtS. Scoring: First XI, Ist
innings, 298. Second Xl, first innings, 140; 2nd,
five for 187. Too score, 68, by Scott (Petersham’s
fast bowler), for the winners. Most consistent
scorer, Taylor, the Newington College boy. Batting
for the Second XI, he knocked up 33 in each
innings. Anything more consistent will be received
with suspicion. #
“Mary Ann” Noble can still do a bit with
the ball as well as the bat. Last Saturday, for
Paddington, against Middle Harbor in first grade, he
uprooted four stumps for 40 in 12 overs.
Sydney trundler J. Flynn has _ thus far
failed to make good in the opportunities afforded
bv the Ma State selection committee, A promising
left-hander, he had a splendid chance to jump into
the shoes vacated by R. .1. MasSie, but efforts bf Otte
wicket for 59 against Queensland, aild twb for 89
on behalf of the Second XI t). the First XI slumped
his stock. He stands at three wickets for 148, NO
man could expect to leap ill the circumstances,
& #
North Sydney continues to lead the pro-
cession in Ma’s First-Grade Cricket. Western Sub-
urbs and Waverlev follow. The Western Suburbs
XI decorated its score-book in the iiiatch against
Central Cumberland, concluded bit . Saturday; When
Diamond scored 117 and hbWlef Dive cbllfected six
for 41 and six for 26. After that a great gloom
settled Oil things, and Central Cumberland took the
back track home.
* *' * *
.T. N. Crawford, now coaching in Dunedin
(M.L.), lias been showir.g the local talent what bowl-
ing is. The other afternoon he sent down 18 overs,
11 of them maidens, for 11 runs. Incidentally, he
took seven wickets during the process.
* * * *
Another item for the cricket curiosity
hunters’ records. At Ballarat on Saturday the local
Grammar School and College elevens clashed, in
its first innings the latter was outed for two (2)
runs, made by the first batsmen, The following 10
batsmen got nothing. Of the two bowlers, Robin
finished with six wickets for nil, and Ceryle with
four for two. It might be described as two-up,
Playing for Valley «. Goodml in Brisbane
senior cricket on Saturday Ayres bagged nine Wickets
for 14 runs in the first innings aiid three for 29 ill
the second—l 2 wickets fbr 43 runs. As he also
caught the tenth opponent in the first innings he col-
lects the bun for routing the entire side. Another
effort of importance on the day was the vigorous
batting of Roger Hartigan, who scored 111 out of a
total of 213 by Toombul.
* * * #
An interesting billiard-match which the
cable did not trouble about was One in London last
month betweeen George Gray and his father. There
was no money on it, of course, but it drew a curious
crowd. Gray Father made the best break of the day,
135 ; but Gray Soil Was the mote Consistent, and,
giving away 1500 in 6000, Won neatly by 298,
* # * *
“Adelaide”: lie that “conference to be
held in Melbourne shortly to amalgamate the ilugby
League and the Australian code” of football (B,
5/11/’l4). Australian is itseif all amalgamation—
of Rugby and Soccer. If it went any further Rugby-
wards it would be Rugby. Rugby, if it came to
meet the other, wouldn’t be Rugby at all. The one
outstanding feature in Rugby is offside. The whole
idea of the Australian game is to sent! the bail on to a
mate well up towards the other goal. Other things
might conceivably be compromised—methods Of
tackling, size of ground, crossbai‘ ; right to hold the
ball, and so on —but the Australian code can’t give
way on the offside question and he the Australian
code. The very basis of it would be gone. Further,
it takes two parties to make any compromise at all.
The people in the Australian game seem quite happy,
It is the game iii four States, and is getting a useful
leg-in in the other two. For the players it has every
advantage in absence of serious accident; for the
spectators in rapidity of scoring. The only thing
it lacks is international competition, and that it
would not get by mating with the real Rugby’s
illegitimate brother, to produce something still more
irregular and never before seen. No! If Rugby
League can knock out Rugby Union let it do so; but
it will get no satisfaction out of making overtures to
another game that has just about as much in common
with it as basebail has with cricket.
* * * *
A Sydney daily advertises “two motor-
cars, late property of Sam McVea, for sale, cheap.”
The would-be seller is the mortgagee of the cars, and
the whole business emphasises, gloomily, the way in
which the glory of the black pug. has departed.
McVea was about the best-behaved of the band. A
fair fighter; imperturbably good-tempered (so much
so that when a suicidal drunk hit him on the nose
in a Sydney street one day he merely walked away) ;
absurdly _ generous—he had these and other taking
characteristics. His motor-cars were manifestations
of that love of display which exists in all colored
men in his line of business. He knew true happi-
ness when he was allowed to revolve at some sports
meeting or other in his 90-h.p. two-seater, while the
latter riveted the crowd’s attention by making a
noise like a Gatling-gun in action. lie was stone-
broke towards the end, and grew shabbier and
shabbier. His cars, his seaside residence all Went,
He was as good a boxer as ever; and proved it
whenever anyone could be got to stand up to him.
But the crowd didn’t Want him or any other negro
heaWWeight. He left Australia, and, unfortunate to
the last, was immediately captured by the Germans.
He Was the only front-rank boxer the writer ever
heard admit to ” being afraid Of another pug, He
owned up to a dread of Langford, but said he Would
like to meet Johnson, and thought he eouid beat him.
* # * *
The cabie didn’t tell the distance covered
by Australians Goullett and Grenda in the recent
six-days’ cycling race at New York ; but it is reason-
able to expect, in View of the speed prizes offered,
that a new world’s record has been planked on the
books. In 1912 Goullett and Fogler, winners of the
big Paris six-days’ pedal, covered 2776 miles. At
New York last year the same team iifted first prize
after getting over Miles.
Winners of six-days' bicycle racing in New York;
1909, Putt and Clarke; 1910, Root and Moran; 1911,
Clark and Fogler; 1912, Rutt and FOglel'; ,1913,
Goullett and Fogler : 1914, Goullett find Glenda,
■* * * *
Melbourne's new motordrome, to be
Creeled bn the site of the present Cycle track, at a
cost Of about £4t)Oo, is beginning to show shape.
The tlaCk is being banked to carry Speeds up to 90
miles fin hbur iri perfect safety unless, bf course, the
steering wheel jambs, or the driver goes mad, or the
engine explodes, or trifles of that nature happen. As
a matter of fact, it is asserted that speed bursts up to
120 miles an hour will be possible before things
become really alarming.
* * * *
The Melbourne-Sydney (565 miles) motor-
cycle reliability trial is set down for December 29-
J&nuary 1. The runs are to be: First day, Melbourne-
Wangaratta (148 miles) ; second, to Gundugai (165
miles) ; third, to Goulbul'n (120 miles) ; fourth, to
Sydney (132 miles). There are to be no timed hill-
climbs, and Razorback is being avoided. Pretty Sally
tl r ic.), Jugiong (at the 335 mile-post) and Governor’s
Hill (hear Goulbui'n) al-e to be Observed, and a stop
On the way tip will ttieart a loss of points. Full points
bring U first-class gbid Medal, the loss Of under 100
a.se'cbnd-class gold medai, The N.S.W. Motor Cycle
Club is taking Queensland , and N.S.W. entries, and
the Victorian Club books the entries from the Other
Stales,
The Australian record for a six-hoars'
bicycle run by amateurs (i 3 4A miles) was increased
by If miles On Saturday, at Sydney Sports Grouild,
under the management of the N.S.W. Cyclists’
Union, by Stanley Burtinshaw (Australia’s champion
pfedaiier Over all. distances) anil E: W. Pedersen
(Ma’s. road champion last year). Fifteeri tfeamS toOk
part in the journey, the actual time of riding being
shr. 59min. 46sec. Burtinshaw led home a ding-
dong field by half a length; A. F. Taylor, second ;
C. C. Hooper, third. All these riders belonged to
city clubs.
* » * *
“W.D.”: Trout-fishing recently opened.
The Monaro streams, by reason of their quality, will
carry a number of minor industries and a lot of
money—One of these days. The I‘eason Is that they
file all dry-fly streams find ideal In quality at that.
The Main essentials Of a dry-fly stream are swift,
‘'gin-clear” Water and a good hatch of fly. There are
two such streams in Hampshire— : the Test and the
Itchen, Rents run to £4OO a mile, but nothing is
procurable, as all is leased for many years ahead. A
lessee would no mole dream of touching this water
With anything but the dry-fly than he would contem-
plate eating boiled duck. The Monaro streams are
superior to the Hampshire Ones, in the writer’s
opinion. The hatch and the stock are .as good, and
the infinitude of rims and spaces of ail kinds on which
the tiny fly may be Made t 6 flutteringiy Settle down
are more varied. The best of them all is the Goodrri-
digbee—which, by the way, is also the home of the
last of the brumbies of New South Wales. This
swift, clear river, running between high mountains,
is one long succession of alternating currents and
pools. Wading is preferable, and for this “stockings”
will do, though trousers are better. All the Halford
dry-fly patterns go, and other useful flies are the
Claret Spinner, the Bine and the Olive Duns, and,
for some odd reason, Hardy’s Favorite. At present it
is possible to fish all these streams without let or
hindrance, but ill about half a century or so the
banks Will doubtless be covered by vested interest, and
it Will be as impossible to take trout there as it is to
catch schnapper off Circular Quay.
At the outbreak of the war a chess tour-
nament f'Or the world’s best players was being held at
Mannheim, Germany—at the invitation of Germany,
observe. Nearly every European country sent a repre-
sentative. On August 1 Russian crack Alechin was
ieadlng, when suddenly the fog of war obliterated
things. Oh October 12 Alechin burst into the London
Chess Club with a painful narrative of the shocking
treatment these harmless guests of Germany had been
subjected to, The players Were all arrested on Aug. 2,
and suffered gross indignities, from which Alechin
escaped by way of Switzerland. The fate of the rest
hasn’t been ascertained. Contrast this treatment of
foreigners ill Germany with the hospitality, courtesy
and care to avoid giving offence with which the visit-
ing German scientists who were here in August were
entertained,
* # * *
N.S.W. Amateur Athletic Association
was remodelled last week, when fresh officers took
the places of those who resigned, owing to the
A.A.A. withdrawing from the Sporting Federation.
At the same time it was settled that amateur ath-
letes can henceforth play League Rugby, provided
the League’s amateur definition, which prevents the
acceptance of cash or “expenses” (except when play-
ing outside the State), is complied with. The
moulding of the ridiculous lily-white amateur and
the over-proof pro. into a reasonable proposition is
on its way.
* * * *
The sarcastic references made in English
official circles concerning the undue number of mud-
died oafs at the goal while the nation is battling for
its life recalls Edward 111., who came out with an
axe and announced that “the skill at shooting with
arrows was almost totally laid aside for the puroose
of various useless and unlawful games.’ Richard 11.
characterised football in the same category as
“tennise, ‘corts,’ dice, casting of the stone, kailes and
other such importune games.” And a Scottish Janies,
in the fifteenth century, decreed that when armed
reviews were held four times a year,
golfe be utterly cryed down and not to be used.”


LEARN MY SHORT COTS
to HEALTH and STRENGTH
Judicious exercise is the natural way to
secure better health aud greater strength.
But be sure the exercises are suitable to
your physique, state of health and consti-
tution.
Learn a good system, such as my Postal
Course of Health and Strength Exercises,
where every movement is prescribed for
the good reason that it will effect im-
provement, rapidly and permanently.
By simple study of your individual
physical shortcomings a simple, yet scien-
tific, course will be prescribed specially
for you.
The excellent results my pupils are
gaining are proof of the efficiency of the
BAKER POSTAL
INSTRUCTION.
Read these letters: —
“I feel much stronger and better in
every way since I started your Course.
I thank you most sincerely for bring-
ing me better health. 1 will always
recommend your postal course to my
friends."
. H.L.S., Warwick, Queensland.
“Your exercises are doing me the
world of good, and 1 am more than
satisfied. Will write fullv later.”
P.E., Brisbane (Queensland).
Write for my profusely illustrated 48-
page booklet, which gives full particulars,
cost of tuition, etc. Kindly send three
penny stamps to cover postage.
SB
m
REG. L.(“Snowy”) BAKER,
375 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
Hygienic Cigarette
No. 1.
and
Gigar Holders.
Every cigarette and cigar
smoker should have one.
They are easily the best
holders one could use —neat
in appearance, serviceable
and hygienic. They are of
Solid Silver, with Quill
Mouthpieces that can be
changed as often as desired.
The silver can be
scalded, thus you
have practically a
new holder as often
as you please.
No. 1 :
Cigarette,
1/-
m 3
No. 2.
QUILLS, 3 doz. for 1/
No. 2 :
Cigar, 1/6.
QUILLS, 6d. per doz.
Postage 2d. extra.
My Xmas Catalog of Smokers'.
Goods, Cigars, Cigarettes, Pipes,
etc., will be mailed free on
rep nest.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“ Cigar Expert,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“SHELL”
BENZINE
AGAIN insisted on
by
Sir Ernest Shackleton
for use in
The Imperial Antarctic
Expedition.
OXO-
-
HENDI
ImTURINGCQ
7-h.p. Twin, Free-engine,
3-inch Tyres, £6B.
Hen dee Manufacturing Co.
109 Russell Street, Melbourne, VIC.
Send for Catalog D.
HOTELKEEPERS ! HOTELKEEPERS /
ECKERSLEY'S DISPENSER
For the Rapid Production of Pure,
Crystal, Effervescent, Draught, Lemon-
ade, Sodawater and every variety of
Aerated Drink.
NO LABOR ! NO BOTTLE-WASHING !
NO BOTTLE FILLING. NO LABELLING OF
BOTTLESI"£ ? NO BROKEN BOTTLES!
WORKS AUTOMATICALLY.
By Electric or Water Power.
Bar attendant simply pulls a lever and mechanical
power instantly supplies the required drink.
Write for descriptive Catalog to
ECKERSLEY’S,
25a GEORGE STREET* SYDNEY,
or S. MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: Messrs. ELLIOTT DONALDSON &
DOUGLAS, 529-33 Queen Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
M
Wool )
Hides
Tallow
Sheep Skins >
Rabbit Skins
and Other
Produce.
S .A. L- IL S held at frequent
intervals by
Australian Mercantile Land
and Finance Co. Ltd.
4 BLIGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Correspondence Invited.
THE RIGNEY REPUTATIO
M
for leadership in high-grade footwear for
men, in regard to quality of workmanship,
appearance and originality of design is fully
sustained in every RIGNEY Shoe.
The illustration shows a Tan Willow Calf
Derby Shoe, Brown Cloth Insertion Tops,
“Non-Tread-Over” Brand.
Price - - 32/0
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG,
THE RIGNEY vSHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street arid 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Building’s, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
DUNLOP
CARDEN HOSE
XT
*■ tt>
If-/,
s>
I
si «v-.
CS', ,;■!
tf.l | W:jV;
wM^i
Mlli®
Offers Extra Service
.without Extra Cost
"The quality and construction of
this durable and non-splitting
Hose ensures users of it years
_ of wear and satisfaction.
It has no equal in this
country, and you can
buy it with the utmost
confidence of getting
splendid service. Stocked
by all leading Agents, but protect
yourself by seeing that same bears
our Brand.
MADE IN VARIOUS
QUALITIES and SIZES.
* M M
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES AND N.Z. /
“Copy Boy” : The local press gang is among
the multitude that will keep back its tears if
Melbourne’s farcically-incompetent Board of
Health is killed, as foreshadowed in Peacock’s
policy screech. The Board consists of sc-wen
councillors, one Government member, and
the permanent head of the department. The
councillors are cantankerous, inflated busy-
bodies, who meet fortnightly, or oftener, draw
their fees and criticise the work of medically-
trained officers ; and if one of the non-profes-
sional members has ever made a suggestion
worth more than tuppence, it has escaped
notice. They merely provide “scenes,"' and
force us to report yards of blither. Nothing
is more calculated to make a pressman mad,
and this paragraph is intended to convey the
impression that the gang is annoyed.
For the honor of being the first native-
born Australian to hoist his flag in the
British navy, Philip Parker King beat just-
appointed Rear-Admiral Gaunt by 59 years.
King was a son of the man who afterwards
became Governor of N. S. Wales. When
he was only 26 he was selected by the Ad-
miralty to complete the work of surveying
the coasts of Australia, so ably begun by
Captain Matthew Flinders. In 1830 he
attained post-rank, and was gazetted Rear-
Admiral in 1555. For many years, after
retiring from the sea, he was local superin-
tendent for the A. A. Co., the big Newcastle
coal-grabber, though for his part he seems
to have preferred the Peel River (Tam-
worth) estate, which a predecessor had
managed to engineer into the co.’s hands.


J Hvnwceg?
TOUCHES
THE
SPOT
M
THE PIONEER OF SKIN CURES
No household should be without it.
For ECZEMA, PILES, SCALDS, BURNS,
CUTS, BRUISES, SORES, and all Shin
Complaints.
For Free Sample enclose Two Penny Stamps.
LYALL WILLIS & CO.,
Sole Wholesale Agents ,
127, York Street, Sydney.
THE GREAT REMEDY.
w GOUT
(EL rheumatic piles.
The severe pain of Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Neuralgia can be relieved by
BLAIR’S PILLS, the Medicine. thi.r has
stood the test of Time. Purely vegetable.
Sure and Safe. Sold by all Drug Stores
and 229 Strand, London, England, in Boxes
at Is. and 2s. Gd.
Wholesale Agents: Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
F. H. Faulding and Co.. Sydney, and others.
Singers and
Speakers
by using the Edison Home Recording Outfit
are afforded an absolutely unique and per-
; feet way to study and improve their own
voices.
It enables you to “hear yourself as others
hear you,” and, incidentally, eliminate all
defects.
; The prices are: Recorder, 15/-; Shaving
l Machine, £l/5/-; 3 blank Record Cylinders,
l/_ each. Or if you purchase the whole outfit
vV the price is only £2. (Special prices for
New Zealand.)
“The Modern Blarney Stone” is the title of
a booklet which sets out the many uses and
advantages of studying your own voice or
playing by this simple and thorough method.
Write for this booklet to-day—it may also
help you in the matter of choosing a suitable
Christmas present for your friend.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(AVholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Drives Sallowness
from the Skin
Ladies, imperfect complexion is caused by
a sluggish liver. A few days’ treatment with
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS will do
more to clean up the skin
than all the beauty
creams in creation.
Cures constipation,
unclogs the liver,
ends indigestion,
biliousness and
dizziness.
Purely vege-
table, never
fail.
M
CARTER'S
Kittle
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The GENUINE must bear signature
INFLAMATION
of the Knee
CURED BY
Solomon
Solution
“Sometime ago I suffered from
a swollen knee. Constant walking
on the hard pavements caused
inflamation to set in. I consulted
a doctor, but without relief. A
friend advised me to use SOLOMON
SOLUTION. I am pleased to say I d id,
with the gratifying result that
after a few applications I was
cured and have had no return of
the pain since.”
(Signed) J. J. Lloyd.
South Melbourne.
Obtainable in 2/6 Jars from Store-
keepers and Chemists; post free
for 3/- from
SOLOMON COX & SON
439 Boiirke St., Melbourne
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
m
PERFUME
NATURAL
Delicious Fragrance
of the sweetest of old-world garden
flowers is reproduced with perfect
fidelity by the secret Zenobia process.
ZENOBIA LILY OF THE VALLEY
is the one and onlv perfume which conveys exact!
the subtle charm of the original flower-scent. Imita-
tions cannot equal its exquisite delicacy or its long-
lasting quality.
ZENOBIA NIGHT-SCENTED STOCK
recalls a dewy summer evening in an old-fashioned
English garden. This perfume is more potent than
the Lilv of the Valley, but not too strong.
Write to Zenobia, Ltd., Dept. 74,
Loughborough, England, enclosing three
penny stamps, and they will send you a
charming little box containing a minia-
ture bottle of Perfume, tablet of Soap
and sachet of one of above odors.
Wholesale Agents for Australasia:
THE A.M. & I. CO., LTD.,
5-11 Parker Street
(Haymarket), Sydney:
and 100 Flinders Street.
Melbourne.
Clk Ucrv
Chins for Christmas
® fhe kind that
fiP* itself
You need no longer worry about wliat to give your friends. Give
them all ONOTO pens. You can buy them daintily packed and
labelled, ready for posting at the Shop.
All you have to do is to write the address, and stamp.
An ONOTO is a gift that is sure to please. It is the fountain pen
that fills itself, cleans itself, never leaks, and never scratches. It is
a model of simplicity.
The Onoto is British Made, and is guaranteed by its makers.
Onoto
THE SAFETY PEN NEVER LEAKS.
Price 12/-, and in a variety of more elaborate styles for presentation purposes, of all
Stationers, Jewellers and Stores. Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on application to
THGS DE LA RUE A CO., Ltd., 182 Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or the Australasian
Representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
8 sizes in one tool—
the best all-round
die-stock you can own.
OSTER
BULL-
DOG
Die-Stocks
The Oster Mfg. Co.,
Cleveland, Ohio, U.5.A.
FOR SALE BY LEADING
DEALERS IN ALL CITIES.
MM
M
OSTER
BULLDOG
No. 104 i
oO
to 2"
Sizes.
The Inky Way.
Schafer, the S. Aus. teetotal parson, has
been made the victim of a painful misprint
in Adelaide Register (17/11/T4). After
agitating his hardest in favor of six o’clock
pub-closing, he made a surprising finish by
admitting that “sane people favor nine
o’clock.” Next morning he was allowed a
corner to explain that what he really wrote
was “some” people.
* * * *
“J.F.H.”: These are bad times for maga-
zines. Several in England have gone to
sleep, and now the depression is making the
Americans curl up. The Century, generally
supposed to be one of the most stable of
Yankee monthlies, is having its affairs inves-
tigated in court. It lost $lB,OOO in 1912
and $46,000 in 1913, and its deficit for the
first half of the current year is $31,000. The
total deficiency in its schedule reaches the
respectable figure of $200,000.
* * * *
The South Aus. Hansard staff, born only
in July, has already produced a respectable
volume running into 1600 pages of long
primer. Including the leader there are seven
men on the staff, and five of them are old
newspaper hands. Fred Johns, maker of
Notable Australians and other reference
books, is chief of staff, and now that Par-
liament is in recess for something like six
months, he and his happy comrades are
shaking hands with themselves at having
left the increasing grind of newspaperdom.
The ink-spash of “The Oldest Inhabitant” :
That Rev. John West, who was an early editor of
the S. M. Herald, was responsible for the first big
newspaper libel case heard in Australia. He had
edited the Launceston Examiner while one William
Francis Xavier Bailey was editing the Hobart Town
Gazette. Bailey, a minister of the Anglican Church
in London, had been sent to Van Diemen’s Land in
1843 for life on a charge which many thought un-
founded. When he left Hobart he settled in Sydney,
where he advertised himself as “Bishop of the Free
Church of England.” He had a room on the South
Head-road (now Oxford-street), and announced that
he celebrated marriages and baptised infants free of
charge. Like lawyers, parsons are conservative, and
Bailey’s free marriages and baptisms annoyed the
orthodox Bishop Barker, who caused the Diocesan
Registrar to announce that the person known as the
Rev. Wm. Bailey, Bishop of the Free Church of
England, was not licensed to preach. This gave rise
to an article in the Herald exposing the previous
career of Bishop Bailey, and holding him up to scorn.
Bailey had set himself up as a teacher and Univer-
sity coach, and had some 20 pupils at the time. He
fired in a writ for £5OOO. Chief Justice Stephen
tried the case. In the witness box Bailey told the
story of his life. He was a graduate of Trinity
College, Dublin; had taken successively two Vice-
Chancellor’s prizes for Greek and Hebrew and other
honors; was ordained in 1830, and was convicted of
“uttering” and no other crime. In Tasmania while
holding his “ticket” he edited the Gazette, and at
the time West was editing the Advertiser he had fre-
quently attacked that paper. The “Bishop” called
several witnesses ; the Fairfaxes had none, but Janies
Martin made an eloquent appeal for them. The
Judge scolded Bailey for bringing the action, but
generously said that a man must be allowed to live
down his “past,” so the jury gave the “Bishop” a
verdict for £lOO. Later, Bailey fell foul of the law
for marrying a minor at midnight; and lost his
right to celebrate marriages on the ground that while
he was in gaol he had lost his congregation.
“Black and White” : I don’t want to take
the circulation out of any newspaper’s
mouth, but is it absolutely necessary for the
little weeklies to publish these group photo-
graphs of the employees of the Blitherton
Hardware Co.? Is it true that these sad,
crowded people witli the cauglit-in-the-act-
and-liandcuffed expression are really of in-
terest to other human beings? Do they
yearn for the publicity that is thrust upon
them and buy extra copies of the paper for
themselves and friends, or do they only sub-
mit to it under protest? Possibly the most
annoying feature of these groups is the un-
naturally clean state of the office boys who
strew themselves in the foreground and adopt
a true-till-death expression which is wholly
misleading. The most sternly businesslike
and confident-looking young man is always
the one who loafs most and is going to be
sacked ; the unhappy, self-conscious majority
are the real workers who reckon it a bore-
some interruption. In my youth I posed in
several employee-groups; but they never had
any artistic or sentimental value even to
those who figured in them. Any old group-
photo. of the kind merely becomes a sort of
tombstone of the people who worked together
a little while and then faded out or were
sacked without achieving anything in par-
ticular —the usual fate of the commercial
rank and file. How can social journalism be
brightened by the reproduction of tomb-
stones ?
NURSERY RHYMES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Germany, Austria, Russia and France,
Staking their all on a gunpowder chance;
England and Belgium, Servia, Greece —
Not one bound over to keep the peace.
Turkey, Roumania, China, Japan —
There is no place for a peaceable man.
About all the townships left out of the flurry
Are Benalla and Bourke and the wilds of Cloncurry.
The Portugee brightens his side-arms and gun,
And sulky is Spain through a stroke of the sun.
Sweden and Norway still try to keep clear,
And Italy’s feigning that she doesn’t hear.
To war will the Laplanders presently come,
And eat up the Eskimo, gloomy and glum:
Slavonia and Brandenburg kill, to their sorrow,
And nothing but Cairns will be left by to-morrow.
The Turk at Bodosto, and Enos, and Rhodes,
Is loading the guns of the new German modes ;
The Prussian, the Russian, the Saxon, the French,
Are working three shifts in a ’carnadined trench;
And in wowser Melbourne there’s threatenings and
panics,
Where Snowball of Orange slays Cartherlick Mannix.
With the noise of the armies, the captains and
screaming,
How the Devil's a poet to do his day-dreaming;
How to write splendid lyrics of love in the south.
When a self-advertiser slays foes with his mouth?
How to keep calm —which to literature’s vital —
When a bore, in the papers, cries loud for a title ?
I'm off to a cave, or a hut on the Murray,
Or an island in Torres, or back of Cloncurry.
VICTORIA.
RANDOLPH.


MISSION FURNITURE at HAUL’S.
THE HOME COMPLETELY FURNISHED IN SOLID OAK FOR
£.115
m
■ -
iim
)
-i
m
■
£3s
fig
MISSION DINING ROOM (Photographed). '
j
sft. Mission Oak Sideboard, “Masda” fitted, with bevelled Mirror, and pretty Deadlight Cupboards, very effective design £l2 10 0
8-piece Mission Oak Dining Suite, “Kamara” spring seats, comprising 6 Dining Chairs and 2 Gent.’s Armchairs, upholstered in
genuine Brown Hide. (This Suite may also be had in Blue or Red Hide) 12 5 0
4ft. Circular Mission Table, “Halifax” 4 15 0
Mission Palmstand, “Brooklyn” 12 6
Write for particulars of Entrance Hall, Best Bedroom, Maid’s Room, Kitchen and all Floor Covering, Furnishing Drapery
and Bed Linen. We shall also post on request a Copy of our Large Illustrated Catalogue and other Furnishing Estimates.
A. HALL ®. CO.,
The Reliable Home Furnishers
561, 561 a, 563, 565* 567 George Street, Sydney
This Massive Rose Bowl
in the best-quality English Electroplate, stands S inches high,
upon a solid ebony base. The design is unique and exception-
ally handsome, and will make a very suitable Wedding or
Christmas Gift. Sent post free,
37|6.
Will you write for
our Christmas Catalogue?
Our Big Mail Order Christmas Catalogue makes shopping by
post easy and satisfactory. We have a special staff who
attend to Country Orders, and can guarantee absolute satisfac-
tion in every instance. Write for a copy to-night.
Stewart Dawson’s,
STRAND CORNER,
412 George Street, SYDNEY.
YOUR ENCYCLOPEDIA.
A Handy, Up-to-date Work in Two Volumes. 2700 Pages. »
Strongly and Handsomely Bound in the Best Flexible Morocco.
Delivered Free for a First Payment o/ 3/-
THE STANDARD PRACTI-
CAL ENCYCLOPAEDIA is not
a reprint, revision, nor exten-
sion of any former publica-
tion. but it is an absolutely
new, fresh, authoritative and
up-to-date survey of the entire
field of human interest.
Among the subjects treated
are Geography, History, Econ-
omics, Law, Theology, Medi-
cine, Hygiene, Mythology, the
Fir.e Arts, Philosophy, Lan-
guages, Mechanical Arts,
Orthography, Religions, Litera-
ture, etc., arranged in alpha-
betical order so that the reader
can readily find the complete
and full information desired
on the subject in question.
Repetitions have been care-
fully avoided, general subjects
cS&>
to
*8
Increase Your
SALARY
By
Increasing Your
KNOWLEDGE
“Look It Up” in
Everybody's
Practical Encyclopedia
are treated fully, while there are thousands of short articles giving the reader the full information
desired.
It is modern in thought and essence, and the finest work of its kind now obtainable. It includes
every phase of discovery and invention, covers all epochs of literature, all forms of government, all
systems of religion—all the glorious achievements that have made history luminous and civilisation
possible. It is Reliable and Up-to-Date. ,
Comprehensive articles on Australia, England, Egypt, France, Germany, India, Italy, New Zealand,
Japan, the Chinese Empire, etc., are presented; also separate articles on their capitals, principal
cities, rivers and mountains, as well as their history, government and other interesting topics.
In all, over S5OO different subjects are treated, and there are over 850 illustrations.
The entire work, comprising twenty-six hundred large double-column pages, is set up from
especially-cast type, and printed from new plates, from which impressions have never been previously
taken, thus making each page a beautiful example of the printing art.
The work is printed upon Bible paper, very thin and opaque; each volume contains 1300 pages, of
not over one and three-eighths inches in thickness. The work is bound in Seal Grain American Morocco
with round corners, sewn with fine linen thread, colored edges, heavy end sheets, side title and back-
Bound so flexible that it can
be opened flat clear back or
rolled like a music roll
bone embossed in gold, and bound perfectly flexible, so
that the volume can be taken between thumb and fingers
and the covers bent clear back without the risk of
injury, thus making it convenient and easy to handle
without tiring. Works of this character containing no
more pages than this are usually bound in five or six
volumes, weighing from 25 to 30 pounds, whereas the
entire weight of “Everybody’s Practical Encyclopaedia”
is less than five pounds. t
Each set is enclosed in a neat, tight-fitting Container,
insuring the delivery of the books in perfect condition.
Every family and every individual has need of a work
of this kind, but price has been the obstacle; we are,
therefore, pleased to be able to place this splendid En-
cyclopaedia on the market at a price within the reach of
everv person of moderate means.
If you would earn more, you must learn more.
The publishers have now ready a finely illustrated
prosnectus dealing with this special Encyclopaedia. It
will be sent post free to earlv applicants who fill in the
application slip underneath.
Apply for this Booklet To-day.
To THE STANDARD PUBLISHING CO. PTY. LTD.,
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Please send me. free of charge, and without ~any
obligation on my part, full particulars of your
Standard Practical Encyclopedia, and your offer
to deliver the complete work for a first payment
of 3s.
Name
{Please send this form, or a postcard, mentioning
Bulletin 31214.)
Address


lOin. Desk t an,
SILENT,
EFFICIENT,
RELIABLE.
J2in. L»esK ran.
DESK,
CEILING and
WALL FANS.
STOCK TYPES OF
DIRECT CURRENT FANS.
w
, ! !
4
i
m..
16111. Desk Fan.
Australian Metal Co. Ltd.
40-2 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
172-6 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
Gilbert Place,
ADELAIDE.
EXTREME EXCELLENCE.
The re are a few articles of commerce that
may fairly be said to be of extreme excellence —
their quality is so above suspicion, and their
shape, form and construction such familiar
objects that everyone knows them* Of
course this takes time, a long time —and the
quality must never vary during that time*
So it is that
“BROADWOOD" PIANOS
with the prestige of two centuries of fulfilled
ideals stand for all that is most conscientious
and most excellent in piano manufacture.
TONE
TUNE
TOUCH
are a threefold cord, not easily broken, of
supreme quality, which characterises “ Broad-
woods.” An inspection would serve to
confirm the truth of our claims* We shall
be glad to see you.
The British Pianoforte Depot Ltd.,
Temporary Showrooms- “38 Market Street, Sydney
(OPPOSITE HENRY BULL’S).
PILES.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF
LEMOLAC FOR PILES stops all irrita-
tion at once. Reduces Swelling'.
Cures. NOT ONE FAILURE. Money
Back if not effective. 3/6 at all Chemists, or post free from
THE LEMOLAC CO., 178 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
We invite you to buy a box of “ De
Reszke” Cigarettes and compare them
with any brand you please. Their quality
will appeal to you.
iilasS
KrPEDIC POMADE for THE HEAD
Strikes infesting vermin dead. One applica-
tion destroys vermin, kills nits, heals sores, cures
ringworm, and makes the hair grow thick and
curly. Kills lice on live stock.
Sydney Agents: Talbots. 206 George Street;
and Washington Soul. Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, or posted from J. Brin, Chemist,
East Malvern, Vic.—l/2, 2/3, 3/9, and with Nit
Comb. 6d. extra.
Styan, who is one of the most consistent
villains on the Australian stage, was imported
to play high-class comedy parts, heroic and
harmless. He made his first appealances
here as a member of the Charles Cartwright
co.. under Itickards s management, and his
photo., with those of the other members, still
hangs enframed in the vestibule of Mel-
bourne Tivoli. Nobody thought ol Styan as
a horrible villain in those days. He was the
upright and honorable Lord Jura in Moths,
and the giddy-goat lover of the young wite in
“A Marriage of Convenience.” Now he com-
plains that managers never give him a chance
to be anything but a monster in human form.
And, to make matters worse, they tell linn
lie’s the victim of appearances.
“0.K.”: My disrespect for the United
States as a mongrel nation wherein the
niggah is not the lowest type, must be
rooted, I guess, in a contempt for
modern ’Murkan melodrama and comedy.
All the recent successes from the .U.S.
are stories of crime and criminals,
the “wrong mis,” as a rule, being glorified
at the expense of the police. If the hero or
heroine is not an unqualified criminal, but
an innocent suspect (as in “The Third
Degree”), the case against the police is made
all the blacker, so that the audience may be
invited to abhor the enemies of criminals
even though the play makes no appeal for
sympathy with crime. In "Alias Jimmy
Valentine” we had a romantic criminal hero
who discloses his identity through his
mawkish fondness for a dear little clieeild.
In “The Argyle Case” a forger socialist
stands on a higher plane than the common-
place characters, and is followed by a laven-
der limelight wherever he forges. In
“Within the Law” all the sympathies of the
audience are invited for a gang of crooks,
headed by modest Mary, whilst the police
are presented as sorrtethiiig tbo despicable
for words. Wallingford is a pestilently bad
example of the sort of dollar-snatclier who
nasses for a non-criminal —in the U.S. "The
Fortune Hunter” is, gn .heroic waster whose
only idea of earning%/j;iiving and paying his
debts is to disguise himself as a wowser and
trap a boob heiress into marriages. Other
stage evidences of ’Murka’s national moral
rottenness have escaped my memory for the
moment.
“J.F.11.” (London) : War has some queer
little consequences as well as some serious
big ones. When Clara Butt and Rumford
started their concert campaign in aid of war
charities the other day, with a great flare-
up in the Albert Hall. Sir Edward Elgar
conducted his “Land of Hope and Glory”
“by permission of the Chief Constable of
Hampstead.” It was explained later that
in the ordinary course Elgar should have
been doing his four hours’ beat as a special
constable instead of twirling a stick in the
Albert Hall. To date the Rumfords have
arranged 23 concerts, and the campaign will
bring in £lO,OOO at least.
"Record Room” : The arrival of “A Daugh-
ter of Israel” at Sydney Adelphi reminds me
that before the “Girl” boom the sweet young
thing was more often a Daughter. Thus we
had Daughters of Eve, of France, of Ireland,
and of Ishmael; with the Daughter of the
Danube, of the Nile, of St. Mark, of the
People, of the Regiment, of the Revolution,
of the Isle, of the Stars, and of the Tum-
brils. There had, also, to be considered “A
Daughter’s Honor,” “A Daughter’s Secret,”
“A Daughter’s Trial,” and “A Daughter to
Marry.” Among others present were “The
Daughter,” “Daughters” (simply that and
nothing more), “The Daughters of Babylon,”
“The Daughters of Eve” (in addition to the
lady’s other offspring aforementioned), and
“Daughters of the Poor.”
“Dumper” : For the first time a Cup Jilm
was this year shown at Sydney Lyceum.
Poverty Point has always understood
that there was a clause in the
Lyceum lease prohibiting the screening
of racing films. Apparently a dispen-
sation has been granted this year, on
account of bad times having made it im-
possible for the Sydney wowser to person-
ally go to Melbourne. At the time of the
Burns-Johnson tight, by the way, there was
a terrific row in the camp because a report
got about that Spencer and Mclntosh had
had a private screening of the fight film at
the Lyceum on a Sunday morning.
Another incident which ought to make the
British ashamed of themselves. As soon
as the war broke out “Carl Wil-
helm,” designer of ballets at the London
Empire Music Hall, thought it advisable to
reveal the fact that he is English, answering
in private life to the name of Pitcher—Bill
Pitcher. Up till then it had paid him better
to masquerade as something foreign.
“Hamer”: Fact has been following the
best traditions of melodrama at St. Paul’s
Church, Sydney. The part of the villain
was cast for a man who belonged to the
' Church of England, and he loved an R.C.
maiden with a love that ran to a promise of
marriage. Then religious scruples got hold
of him, and he took another lady to his own
church with the intention of making a differ-
ent marriage altogether. (The orchestra
'■< (1 religious music in a subdued way, the
whole company, off stage, sang hymns, and
an excited lady in the gallery said “Brute!”)
When the parson asked whether any person
knew an impediment to the marriage the
R.C. lady’s married sister uprose and cried,
“I object.” (Usual musical effects by the
orchestra.) When the applause had died
away the lady was heard answering the
minister, “Because this man is engaged to
my sister.” It didn’t seem any legal impedi-
ment, but the marriage was stopped and the
fainting bride was removed with stock effects.
But the show broke down at that point; and
no detective rushed forward and captured the
bridegroom for the murder of his rich uncle
as he should have done according to the rules
of the game.
“Masetto” : “Theorbo” says (B. 12/11/T4)
that the late Paolo Giorza’s Masses, com-
posed while he held sway over St. Francis’
Church (Melb.), are often sung. Not in
that sanctuary. They found a place in the
cupboard long ago as savoring too much of
the footlights. By reason of their want, of
originality, their value was very superficial,
anyhow.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS,
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appeal on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Morgan McDonnell Fay: Certainly Vic-
torian politics call loudly lor Peacock. He has one
great merit —he made the common-sense remark that
the State Treasuries are not paying any of the war
expenditure, so there is no reason for them to pro-
fess that they are driven to extra-special pawning of
the Kid to Private Enterprise, at any figure which
Private Enterprise may demand, by reason of a fight
beside a half-frozen river in Belgium. Peacock may
have done no more than Holman in the way of abolish-
ing the Upper House and opening the closed ports, but
at least he hasn’t gone raving mad May E. C.:
Sorry to have offended you, and can only ask you
to remember the beautiful words of Solomon: “Better
is a stalled woman and contentment therewith than
a brawling ox on a corner of the housetop.’’ It may
not be exactly right, but it is near enough H. F.
Tait: All right. We’ll accept your assurance that
the lately-deceased Potts never wrote a line for the
lately-deceased Collingwood Observer Cape Ever-
ard: Yes, Kaiser Bill has a deformed left arm. Also,
his brains were amputated while he was young....
Protein: Don’t care to drag the late Oliver Goldsmith
into this war; there are enough dead men in it
already 8.D.: Two verses of “How Ben Hall
Died”: —•
The golden sun had sank away
And now was out of sight
And Mars began to twinkle
At the near approach of Night,
When through the winding scrubby track
As the daylight disappeared
There rode a man in Bushman’s garb
That wore a Bushman’s Beard.
The Singing of the Bush Birds
That once had made him glad
Now only lent confusion
And made his life more sad.
And the fragrance of the Flowers
That grew on hill and plain
Now only seemed to taunt him
And his feelings felt like Cain.
....Hooray: Manuscript half-masted... .J.K. : Too
slight and fragmentary.... Chestnut: Humorless
parody. .. .F.C.F.: Verses below standard.... Author
of “The Call of Motherhood”: You sign yourself
“Virgo” and write of child-bearing like a high-
minded elderly gentleman with a flowing beard. Are
you an elderly gentleman or are you an exceptionally
outspoken womarr?.... Caldwell: Verses too young
and tender R.M.V.: Unsuitable Ankarri: Two
good tries T.G.: Good spirit—underproof Verse.
. . . .Bellerive: Another of the Domestic Series: —
WHEN THE MISSUS WASHES UP.
A man may study deeply
But cannot learn enough,
My only time for musing is
While the missus washes up,
And when she clears the table
Sweeps the floor and trims the light,
I arrange my ink and paper
A verse or two to write.
Our home is poor and humble,
For I don’t earn enough,
And my only time for musing is
While the missus washes up.
....Jas. G. (S.A.) : You arc a comparatively weak
curser. . . .Walter G. (Tas.) : Sorry... .John E.: They
don’t touch our pocket. .. .L.J.V.: Not sufficient force
or originality. . . .G.C.: No demand here for the “Ho,
ain’t it!” brand of humor. .. .Masetto: Small point,
and touch feeble. .. .Fizz-G.: Returning MS. Not suit-
able for 8., but should have a sporting chance'else-
where Mick M.: The MS. itself took “the last, long
•leap.”. .. . W.T.: You would probably write better
with a gun. . . .I.IL (N.S.W.) : Cheery verses, but they
haven’t got the necessary polish.... 11. J.McD.: You’ve
a heavy hand on the pen, and your thoughts run in
furrows. .. . J.I.G. '.Can’t use it. .. .John C. C. M.: Poem
sunk by gunfire. .. .W.H.L.: Beautifully unreal story
without a trace of humor.... Laborer: The employee.
....Patriot: Please don’t send in any more hysterics
about Waterloo as “The world’s greatest battle.” It
was a twentieth-rate disturbance which acquired noto-
riety because it happened to be the last shindy of a
long war. But there was nothing special in it....
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.W.C.B.: The women are the wrong' shape. Why
not draw cows Edgar M.: Niggling work, with
many faults. You need a lot of study or a lot of stop-
ping.... Brown Paper Artist: Why not use the stuff
for the purpose for which it was intended?. . . .Rupert
E. : You might make a success by working only in the
depth of winter and then advertising: “A box of
matches given away with every drawing.”. . . .E.M.B.:
No, thanks. .. .Rob S.: Very wooden S.H.H.W.:
Muddy stuff and a stupid gag... .L.G.I.: But if you
draw the drunk’s jim-jams as solids, the indifferent
policeman who can’t see them merely looks foolish.
It’s a difficult art problem which you might as well
give up. . . .J.B.L.: You don’t draw firmly, and you’re
not jolly.... Gill G.: Faint and smudgy.... H.E.L.:
An 1 short. . . .E.J.E: Compare it carefully with pub-
lished drawings and ask yourself' if it is a fair thing.
. .. .E..T.D.: A combination picture shouldn’t have too
many ramifications. When you try to make one figure
represent the Kaiser, the Sultan, the Shah, the Devil,
Neptune and an octopus, and put a bright smile on
his face, as if he was the Cheeryble Brothers, you are
overcrowding the space....P. Murray: The drawings,
are no good, and the same remark applies to the
jokes. Moreover the jokes are written in such a micro-
scropic fist that they can only be read with a micro-
scope, arid not even then,.. .L.G.I.: Poor and grue-
some idea —three men sitting round a table in a club
talking about a corpse.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
-At the War.
*
P!
mi
'?/£■
ms
?//
hmk
yjz#
<
$8
ft
: ¥■
-
u
A. \ft» *
I
'■v-
\ fiS;X I
Si sef&teA yt £ &W' 7;
p
SM
aSBE
m
■~\l:
m
m
*- v i
V \//V#p ■'.v \
V k/#///.i
m
\
tv?
f j/- mmm. m
ydULy 1
K m
’***&*&' ..
jrj
a/ «
~ «/s
>j ; *au
»/jV'V ■•■ ■ ■
hf' i
\.
A
l
\
;...
BKS
rtivAii
H
-
S§s
5^
IK
a**©*
*<7
S»«r
y<Z#
■ - ■
«9S»
a&VVSt
3?«
&3H*
3S3S
y
3K
*(■ .=
i#
CsF^.,
,
I' okEl i /«vaSAV,
*
..w
«'Hy
ii
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Cycles with
The other two.
Down the long,
Smooth roads they speed
Challenges thev
O j
Do not heed.
Shots vlncr out
c>
And bullets fly,
As the “COBRA’
Th ree dash by.
Brighter scouts
You could not find
And they travel
Like the wind.


Solid Silver Hand Mirror,
hand embossed, full size, 30/-
Cigar and Ash
pure Silver-plated on
Metal, 7/6.
Tray,
White
Jewel Casket, pure Silver-plated, richly em-
bossed. Size sin. x sin. £2.
Salad Bowl and Server s. Pure Silver
plated Mounts. A 1 Quality:, Handsomely
decorated Flora#. China, 25/-
Honey jar, pure Silver-plated,
7/6.
Toilet Pincushion, Watch
Stand and Ring Holder,
pure Silver-plated, 10/6.
XMAS GIFTS
for Everybody.
Just the most practical and
acceptable ideas. We have
thousands of others in our
GIFT BOOK. Write for a copy.
Postage Paid
on all Goods.
r
sag
Specimen Vase,
pure S i 1 v e r-plated
Nickel Silver, hand bur-
nished, gilt lined.
6in 10/6
Tin 12/6
Sin 15/6
Rose Bowl, handsomely hand em-
bossed, gilt lined, with gilt gauze, mounted
on Ebony Plinth. 4in., 50/-; 6in.,
60/-
Gent.’s Solid Silver Plain Con-
cave Military Hair Brushes, Sil-
ver-drawn Bristles, in Silk-lined Morocco
Case, full size, £2, £3, £3/10/-
Shaving Cup, pure Silver-plated,
richly engraved, gilt lined, highly
burnished, 13/6.
Scent Pump,
Solid Silver Mount,
Handsomely Em-
bossed, Cut Glass
Bottle, 20/-
Smaller Sizes,
Postage Paid
on all Goods.
Gent.’s Automatic
Razor Strop, pure Silver-
plated, richly embossed,
13/6.
Sauce Boat, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 Quality, Beaded Edge, Em-
bossed Handle and Feet, 25 /-
Manicure Set, Solid Silver Mounts. Cut
Glass Powder Jar. Complete in Silk-lined Case,
20/-
807-817 George St.,
SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS,
Opp. Railway Station
SYDNEY.
n
/
5)
m
•j—
-70
V
JM
The STATION OWNER
always uses
2L
It aids him in a hundred ways —for the cattle, for the sheep,
he finds Hycol indispensable. As a wash, as a preventive of
mange in the pens, the stalls, stables, everywhere. Hycol is the
“Vet” always to hand, and this accounts for its immense popularity
in the back blocks, where it is a friend indeed. Hycol should also be
used in the Farm House to prevent disease. Its wonderful properties
promote a perfect state of sanitation because it destroys all germ life.
Hycol is NON-POISONOUS, NON-IRRITANT, and is TWENTY TIMES
STRONGER as a germ-killer than Carbolic Acid.
Directions for use on every package.
Of all High-class Chemists
and Storekeepers.
In Bottles
or Drums.


You’ll Get What
You Pay For
in ABBEY SHOES—satisfaction
in fit, finish, comfort and style, and
your money’s worth in wear.
The illustration shows a Special
Golf Shoe, in Choice Tan Willow
Calf,
Price - - 27/6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR A COPY OF
OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 Georg'e Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
M
M
M
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive v-Hi. Look for the signa--
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia
im
334
*
If Men Knew How To
Lather
They Would Shave With
More Comfort.
COLGATE'S
SttftUlNC STICK
The action of the lather on the beard is to remove the oily
covering on each hair. Then the water can get at the hair
to soften it. So the one logical place to mix the lather is on
the face, where every motion of the brush not only works the
lather up but works it in. This Colgate Way —without
the cup makes
unnecessary the
“mussy” rubbing-
in with the fingers
SOLI) EVERYWHERE -If you wish a trial size-
enough for a month’s use —use the Coupon.
COUPON.
Chipman, Ltd.,
54 Margaret Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me a trial size of Colgate's
Shaving Stick, in a handsome nickelled box.
1 enclose 2d. in stamps to defray cost of
packing and postage.
Name
Address
-d
■BMH
SHP lii?! i!
1
i
wm
Oyi f \ “HAND ICE
O I LU MACHINE”
Ice made by this machine.
Makes 2 lbs. of
Hard Ice in any
Climate in 15
minutes.
Guaranteed by us,
the Australasian Agents.
Agents wanted in other
States and Towns.
Write for particulars.
THE PLANT.
Price - - £l2/10/-
ELLIOTT, DONALDSON & DOUGLAS LTD.,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
In replying to the Advertisement, please mention this paper.
THE FAMOUS
SCHEBLER
Carburetter
with Special Attachment
for FORD CARS
M
FORD OWNERS'
can now have
a SCHEBLER
CIR3URETTER
installed at a
minimum o f
expense, and
gain
MORE POWER,
SPEED and
FLEXIBILITY.
EASIER STARTING
QUICKER PICK UP
and
BETTER ECONOMY.
Price, as illustrated. £5/10/-
Booklet and all particulars from
SOLE AGENTS —
ROBERT C. SWAM & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
tlie teeth cleaned both
easily and thoroughly
\ - 1
Vicar boucu
Sc Id by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co.,Manchester, Eng.
THE “TRIUMPHATOR”
imir.T*
CALCULATING MACHINE
is tlie greatest TIME-SAVING, BHAIN-SAVING
and MONEY-SAVING device that lias ever been
introduced! to - the Office W orld.
The only machine that always - shows you the
actual figures you are working with.
Catalogue on 'application:.
A. P. Greenfield 8 Cq. Ltd.
189 Ceorge St.,
BRISBANE.
THE
“ODDESSE” DUPLEX STEAM PUMP
with “ODDESSE” Patent Valve Gear and Cut-off Valves.
M
The “ODDESSE” Patents
represent the Up=to=date
Development of the Duplex
Pump, and combine
ABSOLUTE RELIABILITY.
The Pumps are guaranteed to con-
tinue to work as long as steam is turned
on.
STEAM ECONOMY.
The Patent Cut-off Valves, in addition
to ensuring the quiet running 1 of the
pump at high speeds, allow the supply
of steam to he regulated according to
the work the pump is then performing.
Fewness of Working Parts & Consequent
Saving in Wear and Tear and Renewals.
The “Oddesse” Patent Valve Gear has
FOUR working parts, as against
TWENTY or more working parts in the
ordinary Duplex Pump—all links and
pins are dispensed with.
Representatives in Australasia —
HAES & EGGERS LIMITED,
163 Clarence Street
SYDNEY.


Hanking, Public Companies, Sc,
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—-
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. lIALL.
Security and Satisfactory
Interest
are the leading' features of this Institution.
Deposits received from 1/- upwards.
Interest paid at %\% on first £2OO, and '3%
on excess to £5OO.
The Bank has 130 Branches and over 500
Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices.
DEPOSITS Guaranteed by the Government.
Bv order of the Commissioners,
J. IT. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE.
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £385,000.
Directors : Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
Hon. ROBERT PHILP, M.L.A. ;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian jjank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED .. £1,1.98,679
PAID-UP (30th June, 1914) .. £1,195,591
RESERVE FUND £45,000
HEAD OFFICE : George* King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, lit., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon,
Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton. Esq.; Frank N.
Y.vrwood, Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysagiit, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. . .£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . . . . . 480,000 6 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 166,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray,
M.L.C.; James Love, Esq._
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - X - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland;
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Bankincr Co.
o
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . .. 1,730,000 0 0
Reserve Capital . . .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,730,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., and W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dirbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY,
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton: N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of ||aui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING.
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares . . . . . . 500,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,000,000) Paid-
up 500.000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,601,608
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
lat Interest for
' fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
fhe Colonial fflutual tile
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 431 COLONS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Uncqr/litional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
CmZF Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors *
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, Iv.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA
ENGLAN D.
. Geared Turbine
ORMONDE.
ORAMA
OKViETO .
08TERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA .
ORONTES .
OMRAII
Eitted with
ons Steamers.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
ever - v fortnight from RRISRANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Ppack, Sydney.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE, in connection
with all United States and Canadian
Railways.
Particulars as to dates of departures
and ports of call can be obtained at
the Company’s Office.
*The Finest and largest steamer trading between
Sydney and San Francisco.
Panama Pacific Exhibition opens at San Francisco
February, 1915.
Around Pacific Tours, returning from Vancouver
by Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line or via
Japan and China.
Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
Particulars and pamphlets obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) .
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
*CAIRNS
(*Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).
NORTH.
PEREGRINE (3500 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Dec. 5.
CANBERRA (8000 TONS).
Leaves Melbourne Dec. 9.
Leaves Sydney Dec. 12.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Dec. 16.
Leaves Sydney Dec. 19.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 TONS).
Leaves Sydney Dec. 5.
QUEENSLAND COASTAL MAIL STEAMERS.
(Under contract with Commonwealth Government.)
s.s. COOMA (4000 tons) leaves Brisbane every Friday
at 10 a.m., calling at Gladstone, Flat Top and Bowen,
connecting at Townsville with t.s.s. MOURILYAN for
ports as far as Cook town;
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
UNDER NEUTRAL FLAG
TO
AMERICA and ENGLAND.
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers, 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
VENTURA .. | Dec. 19 | Feb. 13 | April 10 I June 5
SONOMA .. „ I Jan. 16 j Mar. 13 | May 8 j July 3
The San Francisco Panama Exposition is open
February-December, 1915. Tickets issued to London
via San Francisco and back by any Suez Line.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“ON THE HOP.” —A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
I
v
A
To PAPUA and PACIFIC ISLES
To Papua.
To Solomon Islands.
To the New Hebrides.
SEND FOR PARTICULARS OF FARES AND SAILINGS TO
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES,
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS
£3,500,000
£2,500.000
£3,500,000
£9,500.000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, 0.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Bucldand, Esq.
AUDITORS: —William Harrington Palmer, Esq. Shepl’eard Edged iff Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George St.. Sydney. London Office —29 i hreadneedie St., E.C.
347 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills nego-
tiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the world.
.l RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the Scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON. Local Director.
Commomwaltb^&nli"Bißtralm
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
*•«« Genera! Banking Business p ; s ”oP^i
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
Cable remittances made to. ami drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign lulls negotiated and collected,
betters ot credit issued to any part of the world. Bills negotiated or forwarued for collection. Banking and
exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth. United Kingdom and abroad.
Current accounts opened, interest paid on fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at
Deposits
from
1/- to £3OO
2000
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at
per annum
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. . DENIS >X MILLER, Governor.
DRUIDS’ PATRIOTIC FUND ART UNION
Under the Patronage of the Hon. R. W. RICHARDS, Lord Mayor of Sydney.
TOTAL VALUE OF PRIZES, £lOOO.
FIRST PRIZE, VALUE £6OO. SECOND PRIZE, VALUE £lOO.
NETT PROCEEDS IN AID OF THE LORD MAYOR'S PATRIOTIC FUND.
On receipt of Postal Note,-Post Office Order,-or Stamps for 1/-, the Secretary will forward Ticket
to any address in Australia.
Do not delay; , help those dependent on our soldiers by buying tickets, and have the comforting
satisfaction of knowing that you have contributed to the Patriotic Fund, and assisted a noble cause.
The Aft Union will be drawn in Public on SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 13, and results advertised
on and 15th FEBRUARY.
TICKETS, ONE SHILLING.
FROM ALL AGENTS, OR DIRECT FROM
Head Office: 715 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney. R. A. BARRY, Grand Secretary.
Shipping-.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports. ,
T.S.S. WARILDA (8000
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
Dec. 19 and Jan. 16,
1915. (Carrying First
and Second Saloon and
Steerage Passengers.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Anil Ports North to Cairns.
INNAMINCKA, Dec. 5.
YVOLLOWRA, Dec. ]9.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILX & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE.
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND.
OPERATING TIIE LARGEST AND FINEST VESSELS
ACROSS THE PACIFIC FROM AUSTRALIA.
SAILINGS:
Particulars as to dates of departures
and ports of call can be obtained at
the Company’s Office.
*Triple-Screw Steamer, fitted with Cabins <le luxe en
suite, Bedstead Rooms, Nursery, Laundry, Electric
Lift, t Twin-Screw Steamer.
Panama P.acific Exhibition opens at San Francisco
February, 1915.
AROUND PACIFIC TOURS, returning from San
Francisco by Union S.S. Co.’s Royal Mail Line or
via Japan and China.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION ST HAM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with IVireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
lar] v to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Mtinvillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. fid. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£545,634 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,476 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 79,500 0 0
£780,611 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. = ■ aaa=s
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office:. 31 Budge Row, Oanncn Street, toncon,
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
WAVERLEY PENS
M
FOR SWIFT LEGIBLE WRITING NO PEN
CAN COMPETE WITH A WAVERLEY.
ITS ENTICING ACTION, ITS SMOOTH
TURNED-UP POINT, AND ITS DURA-
BILITY, MAKE IT INCOMPARABLY THE
BEST NIB AND THE CHEAPEST. THE
RESERVOIR WAVERLEY CAN DO 200
WORDS WITH ONE DIP. TRY IT.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS.
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
521 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE :


Hotels. «Src.
74
no
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria-
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 16/- per day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH. Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
The GRAND HOTEL
WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND.
WELLINGTON’S LEADING HOTEL.
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT.
TARIFF FROM 12/6 PER DAY.
E. L. CHAFFEY, Proprietor.
Business Notices.
OUR own Mines,
our own Men,
Science, Care
and Scrupulous
Cleanliness make
rtSSMS
SALT
The Purest and
Best the world
can produce.
I \UPtING the Summer a most pleasant,
refreshing, invigorating Tonic Bever-
age may be made by adding a few drops of
Phos to a glass of cold water. Though
Phos is, primarily, a children’s tonic, yet
weary adults should always keep a bottle
handy. Get it now, and don’t be without
it when the hot, fatiguing days come round.
Sold in shilling bottles. If not obtainable
locally, send 1/3 in stamps to the proprie-
tors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
r Drink
Horlick’s Malted
Milk and you know
that you are buying purity
plus strength. Recommended
bv Doctors.
HORLICK3
MALTED MILK .
Sample will be sent on reoeipt of .
k 2d. In stamps to Hutchinson
<;• Co.. 26, Jamieson St.,
Sydney, N.S.W
m
¥
m
'//nil
Si
KNO N 4 TH
world oven
Give him a Gillette Safety
Razor for Christmas .
What Christmas gift can you think of
more acceptable or more practical for a
man than a Gillette Safety Razor?
It is something he will use every day. It makes
his shaving easy and simple where it has always
been troublesome —economizes his time and saves
his money.
The Gillette is the Razor that any man can use—even if
he has never shaved himself before and always with
absolute safety.
It is the only razor, too, that he can adjust to suit the
growth of his beard and the tenderness of his skin.
Do your Christmas shopping early—get him a Gillette to-day.
Many different styles in handsome leather or silver-plated cases to
choose from. Prices from One Guinea to ten. British Made.
Write for Illustrated and Descriptive Booklet. Mention this paper.
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
NO STROPPING
M
NO HONING
SAFETY
RAZOR
Successful
Tooth Cleaning
should be more than a mere
phrase,—it becomes actual
fact for the people who use
Q
Iwepf
it,
Sold by local
Druggists &■ Stores.
Mads by
F.C. Calvert & Co
M anchester, Fng.
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
Beaconsfield testified to the benefits
he received irom Himrod’s
Asthma Powder, and every
post brings similar letters
to-day.
ASTHMA
>o^
M
Famed for 40 Years.
Best remedy for Asthma,
Hay Fever, Rose Cold, or
erd nary Cough.
Said m Tim by all Chemists and Stares
thraughout Australasia.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wh Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALE, LONDON, E.C.
LOUD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
The Fx# R WATCHES
Are the most extraordinary watches of the
age.
They are f-plate levers.
They have brequet overcoil hair springs.
They have jewel ruby rollers.
They have compensated and adjusted bal-
ances.
They are specially made to stand rough
riding and knocking about.
They go with profound accuracy.
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept
in order free of charge (breakages ex-
cepted) for two years.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES—STRICTLY CASH.
Gent.’s Full-
Sized Open
Face Oxidised
Steel, fully
Jewelled,
Fx & R Lever
Watch, 33/-
/
S'
The Spirit of the Child
The Spiritof the Child
By T. C. WOLLASTON.
PRICE FIVE SHILLINGS.
Ist Edition, JUNE, ’l4.
2nd Impression, SEPTEMBER, ’l4
This artistic book of 22S pages
measures 8i x6| inches. It contains
five full-page' illustrations in color, and
six in black and white. Handsomely
blocked in gold and attractively boxed.
Price 5/-, or 5/4 post free.
This is a book such as is rarely met
with and one which is rapidly making
new friends. Australian children will
welcome “The Spirit of the Child,’
because it will amuse and interest them.
It was written for them by an Austra-
lian father, and is sure to please. Read
this Review, and judge for yourself: —
This is a beautiful book. Not merely in print-
ing and binding and general effect. The thought
is beautiful, and the expression of the thought
moves with beautiful grace. Here is nothing
patronising or adroitly shallow; not the easy
confidence of the expert, but the serene, deep con-
fidence of ripe comprehension that has realised
itself untarnished. The book purports to be a
collection of letters written to his children by a
father on his travels. He writes naturally, with
an unfailing, tender reverence. His love of nature
is a real thing that glows on every page. There
is nothing namby-pamby about the letters. They
are written to intelligent children who can think
in good English. The genuinely bewitching illus-
trations help the story. The good effect of the
opening pages is delicately sustained throughout.
There is nothing that jars in the book. An
amazing thing.
The book is delightfully fresh and singular and
sweet, and lam enthusiastic about it. Get it for
your children if you do not want it for yourself.
—The Triad.
Australian Books.
Price.
Platform Monologues, by Pro-
fessor T. G. Tucker, Litt.D.... 3/6
Things Worth Thinking About,
by Prof. T. G. Tucker, Litt.D. 3/6
Sappho, by Prof. T. G. Tucker,
Litt.D. 2/6
Litanies of Life, Kathleen Watson 2/6
Later Litanies, by Kathleen Wat-
son 2/6
House of Broken Dreams, by
Kathleen Watson 2/6
Rosemary: That’s for Remem-
brance, by Eleanor Mordaunt .. 2/6
The Bush, by Bernard O’Dowd .. 2/6
Poems, by Hubert Church 3/6
Poetical Works of William Gay
(complete) 8/6
Purple and Gold, by F. S. Wil-
liamson 3/6
Satyrs and Sunlight, by Hugh
McCrae 3/6
Land of the Starry Cross, by
“Gilrooney” 3/6
Australians Yet, by Grant Hervey 3/6
Quinton’s Rouseabout, by E. S.
Sorenson 1/-
Alpha Centuri, by M. Forrest.. 3/6
Sea and Sky. by J. le Gay
Brereton 3/6
Hearts of the Pure, by D. M.
Ross 3/6
Bells and Bees, by Louis Esson 2/6
Appassionata, by Fritz Hart.... 2/6
(Postage on each of these hooks is 2d.)
Little Books by
Big Australians.
These Miniature Volumes are clearly
printed, and, wherever possible, have
been edited by the authors themselves.
As space is limited, these little books con-
tain only thb best work of each author.
They will intrdu’ce you to good Austra-
lian Poetry, and will prove especially
helpful when you want a small volume
for the pocket or to send to a friend.
1. Sea Spray and Smoke Drift, by
Adam Lindsay Gordon.
2. Poems, by Henry C. Kendall.
3. Poems, by Bernard O’Dowd.
4. Poems, by William Gay.
5. Poems, by Jennings Carmichael.
6. Mateship, by Henry Lawson.
7. The Stranger’s Friend, by Henry
Lawson.
8. Poems, by Jessie Mackay.
9. Blue Sky Philosophy, by W. T.
Pyke.
10. Bush Ballads and Galloping
Rhymes, by A. L. Gordon.
11. Bushland Ballads, by E. J. Brady
(only in leather, at 1/4 j.
Each of these eleven books should be
in your library. They are bound in
genuine limp leather at 1/4 each, or in
stiff paper boards at 1/1, post free.
All these books should be obtainable at
all good booksellers, if not, use this Order
Form: —
To THOMAS C. LOTHIAN,
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
I enclose (stamps may be used).
Please Send me
Name
Address
State


m
Give him
Cig'ars —
A gift of good tobacco to a friend binds ■-
him yet closer. —The New Proverbs.
If you are present to a friend,
give him Cigars. If you buv him a box
of “CARLTON’S” you will be assured
of getting Cigars that reflect your good
judgment If desired, we will despatch
them, addressed to your friend, with a
card suitably inscribed. THE “CARL-
TON” CIGARS contained in presenta-
tion Cedarwood Box, 50 for
Postage 9d. extra.
23/6
PIKE BROTHERS
Toowoomba
LIMITED
BRUisANE
Townsville
Sand for a copy of the new issue of our Commmwsaltft Catalogue (Series five).
A Hot Weather Trouble Avoided.
TRUMILK (SKIM)
POWDER.
Place Powder on top cold water and beat with Egg Whisk for a minute. Result —
beautiful milk free from germs, suitable for all purposes.
NO MILK GOING SOUR. NO ICE NEEDED.
Ask your grocer for a small tin,
Queensland Agents: WEB'STl** & CO. LTD., Mary Street, Brisbane.
New South Wales Agents: FOGGITT JONES & CO. LTD., Sussex Street, Sydney.
IN BANANA LAND
A recent Bulletin prophecy that the Rev.
Hulton Sams, the fighting parson of the
North, would.soon .be .putting , his fist in the
face of Kaiser Bill, is working towards ful-
filment. Sams wrote to a Barealdine friend
recently: “Have doffed my clerical collar
and am training at Harwiek. Hope to .be
in France in four months” —and in Ger-
many, no doubt, in five.
Roma Town Council has looked upon
Sosh and reckoned a nip “will do it no harm.
Hence it ordered a fine row of two-storeyed
brick buildings in the main street, including
a town hall. The price is close-up £14,000;
but it is reckoned that rents will bring in
enough to pay interest, wipe out the prin-
cipal-debt in 25 years, and still leave £376
a year for municipal improvements. But
supposing the £376 is available it will be a
mad council if the money is spent until a
thousand or two are put by in case of acci-
dents.
According to Superintendent Easterby, of
the Sugar Experiments Bureau, the Italian
laborer is.making remarkable progress as a
sugar-farmer on the Johnstone. The Dagoes
pool what they earn at cane-cutting, etc.,
and pay the deposit on a farm for . one of
their number. As soon as funds mount again
they take up a second farm, then a third,
and so on. The Australian cane laborer is,
on the other hand, still a nomad. He makes
his cheque, goes south, spends it, and returns
for next season’s cutting no nearer being a
cane-farmer than he was at the start.
“North Q.’s” timely word : . .
Now that Australia has awakened to the fact that
it should use its own products and be an industrial
ass no. longer, the awful waste of mangoes and paw-
paws in North Queensland should cease. Every year
tons of these delicious fruits are allowed to rot
because there is no proper system of putting them on
the southern markets. The mango as a fruit is fairly
well known in the South, and mango chutney has a
flavor all its own. The paw-paw is not only of
excellent flavor, but it contains medicinal; properties
of which most people in the South have never heard.
The milky juice of the green fruit or of the trunk,
spread over ordinary rubber steak, renders the meat
equal to best fillet. Further, meat, wrapped in paw-
paw leaves and hung up in the fresh air, will keep
good for a week in hot weather. A few leaves
thrown into the pot when boiling corned beef softens
the flesh and gives it a distinctly pleasant flavor. A
little of the ripe fruit eaten after each meal pre-
vents indigestion, and a healing ointment is also pre-
pared from it. I admit that neither fruit carries
well; but that small difficulty should be overcome
with proper handling, packing, stowing and reason-
ably-rapid transport.
“Albion”: Not since the big drought of
1902 have the stock routes in the Maranoa
district been in such a bad condition. They
are absolutely eaten out. This is chiefly
attributable to the gradual narrowing of the
routes. Many of these are mere lanes. A
mob of 13,000 passed down the river recently,
and the casualty list would fairly stagger
you. A “hospital” followed this mob, to
attend to the weak ' and cremate the dead.
My heart went out to that drover. Another
mob, while on the track to Charleville,
threw in the towel at Mitchell, and finished
the trip by train. Ten years ago the
Maranoa was one of the best districts to
travel stock through ; to-day it is the Dead
Finish. Shire councils can have some of
the blame, for not demanding wider routes
when stations have been sliced up for
selection.
MAKING HAY, ETC.
STAGE MANAGER : “Damn it, didn't I tell-you you had to slap his face and not let him
kiss you."
ACTRESS (innocently): “Ye-es. But that's in the play. This is only rehearsal .”
Died: at Townsville, aged 62,' William
Frederic Manby, well known in the North.
He was brother to Sir Alan Manby, the
physician who attended to George V.’s
health when, as Duke of York, he looked-up
Australia.
The move that the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment has decided to take in regard to
syphilis is a start, anyhow; and those who
start go a long way if they don’t stop. A
night clinic is to be opened at Prince Alfred
Hospital (Sydney), where sufferers may go
for treatment and advice. In order to
encourage them no names need be given nor
questions answered. An official has also
arrived in Queensland to make investiga-
tion into the working of the contagious
diseases law in that State, and on his report
a system of notification will, in all proba-
bility, be established in the Ma State.
“Hard-a-port” : The water front felt that it
had struck a mine when the information
burst upon it that the Fisher Government
had selected H. Probert-Davis as Director of
Navigation,, at £BOO a year. All that the
coast knows of the new director is that he
was a skipper, mostly of the smaller vessels
of the Adelaide S. S. Co., before taking up
a minor billet under the Melbourne Harbor
Trust. Later, he was selected to assist in
drafting and piloting the Navigation Bill
through its tortuous course. No doubt he
has other qualifications. One thing is cer-
tain —he is an Australian, and, in these
days of imported foreigners who can't show
the native how to do it, that’s something to
go on with.
Semper Eadem.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I saw my Chosen in the wood
And drew my club and ’gan to race her;
My tribesmen all delighted stood
And cheered again to see me chase her;
And though she showed a pair of heels
Would shame full many a record-breaker,
’Twas all in vain—my club again
Brought down the Quarry for the Taker.
In after years in Roman mart,
The chattel of a dusky vendor.,
In beauty unadorned by art.
I saw her gleam, a vision tender;
She spoke a jargon wild and strange,
Yet knew a tongue no man had taught her;
I did not woo, I did not sue,
But simply paid my cash and bought her.
The cycles rolled and down I came
To carry still Love’s little game on ;
We stormed a castle, stole the dame,
And hanged the owner high as Haman ;
Within the chapel’s earven pomp
I wedded her, my widowed idol,
And good King John smiled gaily on
His burly baron and the bridal.
And, later still, to Gretna Green,
I bore' away a magnate’s daughter ;
Was never morn so fresh and keen,
Or such a light on hill and water;
Though fast behind her father rode,
Yet we could laugh, for we were fleeter;
Was never day more glad and gay,
And ne’er the joy of life completer.
And when the morrow comes, perchapce,
Myself and she whose name is Faery
May skim across Cathay or France,
With beat of wings and fannings aery;
And Earth put on her garment golden.
Content to feel, though manners change,
To-day, as in the ages olden,
When Love is King, the stars will sing.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane; November 28, 1914.
My Dear Tiiargomindah,—
Lady Helen Munro Ferguson and Lady
Doris Blackwood reviewed Maud Allan’s
entertainment on Monday night. On
Thursday the ladies were entertained at a
reception by the National Council of
Women. Her Ex. wore grey brocade, with
a blue sash ornamented with silver, and a
quantity of diamonds. Lady Doris wore
white lace, with a puffed tunic of pale pink.
The N.C.W. assured the G.-G.’s missus of
its unswerving loyalty to the throne, which
should make George V.’s crowned head lie
less uneasy these nights.
A number of hysterical females, who evi-
dently are determined to get into the lime-
light somehow or anyhow, and who can’t
think up anything original, have been advo-
cating the “white feather” crusade, popular of
late at English seaside places, against the
men who are unpatriotic enough to still
earn a crust for their dependents, instead
of rushing off to the war. Apparently no
distinction is to be made in the case of the
men who have dwelt on the doormat at the
barracks and begged to be taken. Then
there are men who failed to pass the doctor,
and a few who are cordially required to
remain and save hysterical females in case
of not impossible emergencies, and to do the
odd job that keeps the financial Hag flying.
No “white feather” demented sisterhood has
any right to insult these men. What is
urgently required, Thargomindali, is a
Broom and Scrubbing-brush Day five times
a week. The other two days could be spent
in meditation and sewing on buttons.
On Monday pretty little Louie Earwaker
changed _ her name, Dr. Frank Glynn Con-
nolly being her accessory before and after
the fact. She was cheerfully passed over
by her father under a bridesguard consisting
of sister Dorothy, Mollie Ferrier (who is to
be a bride herself early in the New Year),
Winifred Sutton and one of the Steele
girls. Hugh Glynn Connolly, one of the
Ross Munro boys, Jack Earwaker and
another youth prevented the bridegroom’s
escape. St. Stephen’s Cathedral, where the
yoking up was done by Father McCarthy, was
filled to the doors, and at the wedding lun-
cheon, which was picked at the Earwaker
home, some 250 of our Most Select pattered
the usual sincere congratulations. After-
wards Dr. and Mrs. Connolly motored for
Tweed Heads, en route to Sydney.
On Tuesday Madge Atkinson, the only
daughter of Captain Atkinson, was married
.to Ronald Brooke. Ray Collins, in blue,
was bridesmaid. Sydney , is, as usual, the
honeymoon port.
The prettiest wedding of the week was
the Bullivant-llarrrs affair. The little
church at New Farm lends itself to decora-
tion, and whoever had the job in hand cer-
tainly did him- or herself proud. Among
the incidentals were four archways and a
wedding bell. Mrs. Gilbert Wilson, -after
the final words had been spoken, raised a
voice that is as fresh and youthful as the
lady’s own appearance. The bride*, Who is
the only daughter of the late popular “Djd”
Harris, and a grand-daughter of Mrs.‘George
Harris (most hospitable of hostesses in the
early days), was given away by her brother
Clive. Joan Taylor (a cousin) and Nora
Stanley, in white lace, with panniers of
pale blue satin, and big hats lined with blue
and massed with pink roses, looked the last
word in bridesmaids. The wedding break-
fast was laid at the Wliittingham home at
Ascot. Mrs. Wliittingham appeared in a
white ninon and lace gown, and a black hat
laden with ospreys (quite 10 birds’ lives
rested on that hat, I should be glad not to
think). Grandmother Harris was in black,
and the frocking of Mrs. J. E. Harris, the
bride’s mother, was in her favorite colors,
pink and blue. The Arthur Bullivants are
heading south for Melbourne.
After the Earwaker wedding on Monday
Hugh Glynn Connolly gave a theatre party
at Palace Gardens, where “Sweet Laven-
der” was staged. Last night M*rs. Lumley
Hill had a theatre party there, and on
Wednesday night, at His Majesty’s, the
same popular squatteress entertained a box
party.
The three Cherniavskys have been filling
His Majesty’s Theatre with melody this
week, and Maud Allan has danced
assiduously. A loud theatre party arrived
one night in the midst of a particularly fine
piano solo by Jan. As they had paid for a
box, etc., they naturally stumped along the
dress-circle with loud and unmeasured tread
and proceeded to settle down. During the
manoeuvres somebody hurtled down the box
steps. Then there was a blessed peace—
for three minutes. After that all was long
procession in and out and a banging circle
door and a whiff of raw refreshment.
Carl Zoeller, who protested his entire
loyalty to this country in a series of letters
to the daily press, was this week fined £lOO
for attempting to trade with Germany (via
Sweden) after war was declared. This lip
loyalty appears capable of being overdone.
Yours affectionately,.
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Andrew Fisher’s idea of paying the Leader
of the Opposition £lOOO a year would look
like an inspiration if the quality of the
present Opposition leader were higher. A
really big Oppositionist who would make
the Federal Labor leaders stick to the guns
they have mounted on their platform would
be worth the money. But to give the money
to Cook would look like rewarding Cook
for being Cook ; and he would be that, any-
how.
“Rangan” : Bananaland’s Labor section in
the Assembly is joyful over two pieces of
tvork. The Liberals’ new Elections Bill
would have disfranchised members of the
Expeditionary Force. As Home Secretary
Appel remarked in effect, “Fancy giving a
dead man a vote !” Opposition-leader Ryan
went after that unique gag with an amend-
ment which provided the missing voting
power, and the decent members of the
Government side could only support it, and
it went through. Later, when the police
estimates came on, the party got one home
on the Police Commissioner on account of
some old scores. A proposed reduction of
£1 in these estimates was carried on a
snap division by IS to 17. The leading
Brisbane Tory daily has been gnashing its
gums and rattling its aged bones ever since.
How has the North deteriorated! Says
the last report of the Queensland Govern-
ment Analyst“ Seventy-one samples of
liquor were examined, mostly from North
Queensland, but nothing deleterious was
found in any of the samples.” No wonder a
Northern liard-case recently wrote to Tin:
Bulletin complaining that pubs nowadays
were “no better than wallop shops” !
Highway robbery in Queensland is run
on simple lines. A sugar-planter was stuck
up the other. day by two geniuses who re-
lieved him of £2OOO, threw his car out of
gear, mounted bikes and departed. The
planter slipped into a house near-by, rang
up the police and waited. The Uhlans who
had done the job rode smartly into town,
and were collared by the local force about
a couple of hundred yards from the police
station and within 20 minutes of the robbery.
The thieves were landed in the lock-up, a
bag of loot thrown into the river was
recovered, and the officers concerned were
promoted—all within 24 hours.


/
■c
■ / .
i Rii
•x- 5
** ? *m ® y
1 i
m
is *. Ml
austr alia
/
-wap
a.
:-:■/
cv^'
l_l
KT
.
' I
&
m
<2
to
£
4?
6#l*
«/©
f w
AUS
pure
-J\ * \ STAWim
\ BRA N Cfy,
?To’
*
&C
fe s
-^ tlADe !
/i”v >e' eo *^§
4 fv
Jf r q«Al»e*
s
lit
111 Mi
iii
*****
. •■
/%v
i'RH
ce
u
L south
M
■
Mr. Chairman and Men of Australia, —
You ask me how Australia can help the British Empire. Well, you
have already done your share in your noble sacrifice of men and equipment,
to help to right the Great Wrong—to uphold the integrity of that great;
Empire to which we are all proud to belong, and I can tell you that in the
records of these historic days, when millions of men meet in the clash of arms,
and the fate of Empires trembles in the balance, Australia’s part will be written
in imperishable history.
This much you have done, but there is still more to do. My thoughts are of
the mother country and of Australia. You can help both by buying Australian
products. Particularly can you help Australia. Remember that, gentlemen,
and live up to it. It is your duty.
The article before us to-night is Chateau T'anunda Three Star Brandy,
distilled wholly from the fresh grape in South Australia, and bottled under the
supervision of the Customs officials of the Commonwealth Government, whose
seal guarantees its purity and age. It is one of the finest brandies in the
world. For medicinal purposes it is without a peer; as a beverage it is a superb
old spirit.
Now, here is a brandy that is a credit to Australian skill, enterprise, labor
and capital. When you buy it you help Australia in a score of ways. You
keep the money in your own country. You help Australian labor. You assist
in the development of the Commonwealth. Your money spent here means
more wealth —more people—more general prosperity for Australia. There is
not a single, solitary reason why, when you ask for brandy, you should notv
demand your own country’s product in preference to any other.
Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen, I ask you to lift your glasses to the Empire
and to Australia. The coming years are pregnant with great things. There is
a great industrial expansion looming up. Your share will largely depend on
the amount of your patriotic purchases of Australian products. Develop the
resources of your land—call forth its powers—build up its institutions—promote
all its great interests—this is Patriotism. “Advance Australia!”
“Since Eighty-nine from Pure Grape Wine.”


The. Br itish made
J M sifpis’ f
drawn|hm Lamp
v aat» wSmmmwmUm
British
B
T-H
Made
MAZDA
Are the Lamps You
Use British Made?
Mazda Lamps were the first lamps to be made with a con-
tinuous filament of drawn tungsten wire. They are made in
Rugby (England), and their manufacture gives employment
to thousands Of
British workers.
It is not for
patriotic reasons,
however, that you
should use Mazda
Lamps, but be-
cause of their
unsurpassed
qualities of bril-
liancy, strength
'and efficiency.
OUR PRICES
have not been
increase^.
” , I , j j,„ ,
M
MAZDA DRAWN
WIRE LAMPS
have solved the
problem of fra-
gility & reduced
the cost of elec-
tric lighting so as
to bring it within
the reach of.
everybody. B e
sure and get
“MAZDA,” the
“B r i t ish-made”
Lamp.
Australian General Electric Co.
MAZDA. HOUSE)
Cr. Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Cr. Queen and Little Collins Streets, MELBOURNE.
British
TH
Made
MAZDA
AGENTS—
PERTH (W.A.): Clias. Atkins & Co. (W.A.),
Ltd., Hay Street.
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co.
of Aust., Ltd. (E.S.C.A.), Edward Street.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun & Johnstone
Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: National Electrical & Engin-
eering Co. Ltd., Dunedin, Auckland,
Wellington & Christchurch.
WM/msiMßi,wmmmm
MUSICAIf€OMEDY|
m/wmgmi
'# '
m <#■
*Hi» Master* Voice*
MADE IN
ENGLAND.
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
RECORDS of “PINAFORE.”
Following the “Pirates of Penzance” at Her Majesty’s comes “Pinafore,” the
fascinating nautical frolic which is held to be one of Gilbert and Sullivan’s
greatest achievements.
“His Master’s Voice” Records produce this sparkling comedy in wonderfully
realistic manner.
We list some “Pinafore” Records: —
SULLIVAN OPERATIC PARTY.
10-INCH RECORDS, 4/3.
4617 Opening Chorus and Little Buttercup.
4616 A British Tar is a Soaring Soul.
4404 Captain’s Song (with orchestra).
LIGHT OPERA CO.
12-INCH RECORDS, 6/-
01524 Gems from “H.M.S. Pinafore,” No. 1.
04525 Gems from “H.M.S. Pinafore,” No. 2.
COMPLETE SET OF “PINAFORE” RECORDS. £4.
Instrument Catalogue, Record Lists and name of nearest accredited dealer
on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD., 163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
MSS:
£ff.\m±L\im u\\ i
If 4 ' I 1 .
6
mJ
ms
/i
:•>•
K-iLv : i-:
jV. Ju& half an inch
more, perhaps,
in a foot
but that equals
i
One Mile More in Twenty-Four.
Means More Mileage.
It contains more heat units.
Ask for Booklet “Petrol and the Carburetter.**
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand.
70320


ii
I^2
&
©
Important Message
for YOU, Sir !
The Message we have is REALLY important—TO YOU.
If heeded it will surely save you Money, Time and Annoyance.
It will show you how to sow your Grain Crops with the least possible
trouble, delay and expense.
It tells you of a new and BETTER Grain Sowing Device than has ever be-
fore been marketed.
A device which will hereafter be found on all" Deering " and " McCormick" Grain Drills,
and on no others—see cut in the margin.
It will be called n The IH C Improved Grain Sowing Device," and its advantages TO
YOU, are briefly :
1. POSITIVE drive cannot slip out of place or through wear or otherwise vary the
quantity set for, or fail to sow. —The simple provision made for setting and regu-
lating positively assures the sowing of just the quantity set > for, and does this
acre after acre and day after day-IT CANNOT CHANGE UNLESS YOU CHANGE IT.
2. Simple construction and direct chain drive reduces the amount of power required
to drive other sowing devices.
3. Strong simple construction ensures less wear than other sowing devices and hence
smaller cost for extras.
4. It simply CANNOT GET OUT OF ORDER, and hence loss of time and annoying
stoppages are done away with.
5. Where required to do so, WILL SOW A SMALLER QUANTITY OF GRAIN than any
other Drill known to us and still sow it evenly.
6. While it has decided advantages over all other sowing devices known to us it is
not inferior to any of them in any one single point.
"I H C"
Improved
Grain -Sowing
Device
Seeing is believing and any bona fide purchaser can arrange to see this Drill at work before fplacing his order.
When you’ve seen this device in actual work it will take a VERY SMART salesman to sell you anything else.
Write for gratis pamphlet, and ask where you can see the drill at work.
THIS DEVICE CAN
BE ATTACHED TO
OLDER PATTERNS
OF "DEERING" &
»McCORMICK"
DRILLS
International Harvester Co. of Australia Pty. Ltd.
200 Roma Street, Brisbane
545-557 Bourke Street, Melbourne
361-365 Murray Street, Perth
37 Broadway, Sydney
18-20 North Terrace, Adelaide
75 York Street, Launceston
CUT THIS AD-
VERTISEMENT
OUT-IT WON’T
APPEAR AGAIN
503
M
M
IS
mm
Electrical
IS
D 1 ID
Larg'e Stocks.
Competitive
Prices.
M
M
M
MM
Siemens Bros. Dynamo
Works Limited.
Head Office —London.
Machine and Switchgear Worliss Stafford, England.
Cable and Telegraph WorHs: Woolwich, Condon.
Incandescent Camp WorKs: Dalston, Condon.
Australian Offices:
59 William Street
MELBOURNE.
42 Bridge Street,
SYDNEY.
The Coldwell
“Pony” Mower!
Price £16)10/
. . “• ‘
Complete with.
Grass Box and
V '
Five Blades.
/
THE ease with which this Mower is manipulated,
and the entire satisfaction afforded by its working;,
all tend to make it what it is—one of the finest
Mowers on the market.
Although specially adapted for use on Putting;
Greens, etc., it is equally serviceable on the Lawn. The
width of cut is 25in., which not only substantially
reduces the number of times usually required in mowing
to go over a lawn, but ensures an evenness of cut which
in a smaller machine is almost an impossibility.
The Diameter of Revolving Cutter is bin.; Diameter
of Drive Rollers, lOin. Bearings are of adjustable split
bronze.
/MSPliersonß)
Proprietary Limited,
554-66 & 582-88 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDRENS FOOD.”
THE
WHITE
CITY.
l|ushcutter’s Bay Sydney
RE-OPENS
j «•
SAT U R D AY,
DECEMBER 12.
ALMOST A
NEW SHOW
WITH THE
OLD NAME
AND THE
OLD
ATTRACTIVENESS.
HOW ABOUT COMING ALONG ON
OPENING NIGHT?
General Manager! T. H. ESLICK, C.E.
Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 21st November, 1914.
r ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
Extension of time for receipt of tenders
for: —-
(a) Cordage.
(b) Asbestos Packing and Rubber sheet-
ing-
(c) Jams.
The dates of receipt of tenders for the
above have been extended as follows: —
(a) Cordage, from Wednesday, 18th
November, to Monday, BOtli Novem-
ber, 1914.
(b) Asbestos Packing and Rubber Sheet-
ing, from Wednesday, 18th Novem-
’ ber to Monday, 30th November, 1914.
(c) Jams, from Friday, 20tli November,
1914, to Wednesday, 6th January,
1915.
G. F. PEARCE,
Minister- of State for Defence.
Jus
=2ik
nva
NV
mQ
dOH
VXtVW
0
>
BEFORE
FOR
QUICK RESULTS^
—USE
(fIPILLfIRINE
This splendid preparation develops
the moustache quickly. Try it —•
you will be with the
result.
GET A JAR TO-DAY—IO/6, post free.
Craig & Aitken,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established Over SO Years.
M
Let the Motor
pump your
Tyres with
the Mayo
Pump.
No auto owner
will continue using
a back - breaking
hand pump after
once being shown
this device. With this pump tyres easily can be
kept up to pressure at all times. Hence full mile-
age service will be obtained which will result
in a saving of 25% in the tyre expense. 50,000
satisfied users are our best recommendation.
Instantly attached to any engine (European
or American). Remove spark plug and screw
pump in its place. Start the motor and your
tyre is inflated with pure fresh air in from
two to four minutes. Just watch the gauge, it
tells the’ exact pressure.
Write to-day to us or to our nearest dis-
tributor.
MAYO MANUFACTURING CO.,
69E 18th STREET, CHICAGO, U.S.A.
Stockists : CARRATS LTD., Sydney, N.S.W.
R. B. SPINKS & CO., Auckland, N.Z
Am usements.
Harry IticUards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
• Governing’ Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
Twice Daily, at 2.30 and 8.
Twice Daily, at . 2.30 and 8.
Tivoli tiieat it e, Sydney.
THE TIVOLI FOLLIES. ,
ISAfiELLE D’ARMOND. JACK CANNOT.
MONTGOMERY WOLF. AL HERMAN.
ANNA HANNA. GEO. HALL.
HELEN LEACH. WALLIN TRIO.
VAUDE & VERNE.
Box Plan at Theatre and Nicholson’s.
’Phone 9942 for Reserves.
"j“ IVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
J. TV. RICKABY.
MOONEY & HOLBEIN. ALFREDO.
ALVARETTO, REGGO & STOPPITT.
NOBLE & BROOKS. AERIAL LESTERS.
GILBERT & ERICSON. ROBERTS & LESTER.
GEORGE WHITEHEAD.
I’ox Plan at Glen's. PRICES; 4/-, 3/-, 2/-■ 1/-.
|_| E It M A .1 E S I' V ’ S. S Y I) N E Y.
r 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN COMIC OPERA
Last Two Nights of ILM.S. PINAFORE and TRIAL
BY JURY.
SATURDAY NEXT, AT 8.
TII E MIJvA D O.
SUPERB AUSTRALIAN CHORUS.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
ARE YOU DEAF?
( Banjhill)
EARPHONE
GIVES PERFECT HEARING
The object of the Danjhill
Earphone is to enable
& . .
deaf people to hear.
By simply, wearing a Danjhill Earphone a deaf person can sit in a room and hear
all the convei'sation with perfect ease. It collects sounds from all directions without
losing any 6f ' their strength. ■
It transmits the voice clearly, and can be used in a Public Hall, Theatre or Church.
For years past Jerdans Ltd, have been successfully attending to the eye
troubles of the public.
If your eyes fail you naturally tajce to spectacles.
Why not let us treat your ears with the Danjhill Earphone? The result
will be perfect.
SOLE AGENTS;
JERDAN’S LTD.,
My Opticians, 393 George Street, Sydney.
T* ”**** * ;
My Word —That’s Easy!
That is the daily experience of the - man who
shaves with
A “PLUM” RAZOR.
This splendid razor is made from finest silver
steel, perfectly tempered;.. Its keen cutting:
edge makes shaving a pleasure. It glides:
over the face and leaves the skin soft and
smooth as silk. We are practical tradesmen
and know the edge required to give the best
results. That is why you can always rely
on a “Plum.”
SEND FOR ONE TO-DAY—
-10/6 post free.
We keep it in good order for two years, free
of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, -Ivory Handle,
15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
All the Above Post Free.
Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654- GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
Tricks, Puzzles, Jokes, Novelties.
gHaB
The U.S.A.
Squirt Pistol
The best water
pistol made.
Will stop the
most vicious dog
or man without permanent injury. Invaluable
for cyclists, night watchmen, unprotected
ladies and others. Can be charged with
water or other liquids. It creates great
amusement for young and old; strongly made
of polished nickel. Fires and recharges by
pulling trigger. Post free, 3/-
M
M
The Touch-Me-Not
Match Box.
A neat little box, nicely
made in nickel and fin-
ished in leather. Car
be carried in the vest
pocket. When your
friend asks for a match
hand him the box, and
as soon as he attempts
to open it he receives
a sudden shock.
Post free, 1/3.
Write for New Catalogue
—Post Free.
£3Br
nf
B
■.»
OH
■ n
a
m
PUZZLE PURSE.
The best puzzle purse made. Three entirely different
moves before the purse can be opened. Made of
superior leather with inside pocket and strong-plated
frame. Post free, 2/-
Our New Catalogue, which is Post Free, is a Novelty in Itself.
H. L. HUTCHINSON LTD. -New York Novelty Co.,
708-710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office, Sydney.
WE SPECIALISE IN ALL KINDS OF TOYS.
Amusements.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDN E Y.
Direction ALLEN DOONE.
EVERY EVENING.
ALLEN DOONE
and his popular Company in the popular Irish Drama,
A ROMANCE IN IRELAND.
Prices: 4/-, 2/6, 1/-. Early Door Gallery and Stalls,
6d. extra. Early Door Gallery, Saturdays and Holidays,
1/- extra. Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee FRANK MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
FRED NIBLO & JOSEPHINE COHAN
And J. C. Williamson’s Popular Comedy Players,
in George M. Cohan’s Mystery Farce,
SEVEN KEYS TO BALDPATE,
Founded on the Story by Earl Derr Biggers.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
ATTeTT I’ II I TIIEAT It E. SVI»N E Y.
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY. LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE WOMAN PAYS.
SATURDAY NEXT,
George Willoughby’s New Dramatic Company iu
an adaptation of Hall Caine’s famous novel,
TH E C H It ISTI A N.
Prices of Admission: —Week Nights: Front Stalls,
%!-; Dress Circle, 1/6; Back Stalls, 1/-; Gallery,
fid. Saturday Night: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
The picture block theatres.
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
I’lie finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
(iIIEATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
TiFe K INC'S Til EA T RE, ME E ISO UItN E.
Sole Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of Australia’s Favorite,
MISS NELLIE STEWART,
in
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY.
Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plans at Allan's.
HER .MA.I ESTY’S Til EATIiE. M EMtOUENK.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
LAST NIGHTS OF
NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
in
THE GIRL IN THE. TAXE
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: fis.. 45.. 2s. and 1».
II E A T R E R O Y A E, MEUIOUKNK
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present
MURIEL STARR
in
THE YELLOW TICKE T.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. Jl EEISOURNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEOHGF, WILLOUGHBY. LTD.
Last Two Nights of THE KELLY GANG.
* SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 5.
Geo. Willoughby, Ltd., present the “People We
Meet Every Day Drama,”
THE GIRL WHO TOOK THE
W T RONG TURNING.
Prices: 2/-, 1/- and 6d. Plan at Pianola.
I2LOOUENE REPERTORY Til EATRE
Direction GREGAN McMAHON.
AT THE ATHEN.EUM HALL.
DECEMBER 5, 7 and 8—
THE PHILANDERER,
A Comedy by Bernard Shaw.
DECEMBER 12, 14 and 15—
PETER’S MOTHER,
A Play by Mrs. Henry de la Pasture.
Box Plans at Pianola Co. and Booklovers’ Library,
December 1.
SPLANADE, ST. KIEUA, MELBOURNE.
Direction NIGEL BROCK.
THE GREEN HANDIES.
EVERY EVENING at 8.30.
Prices 2/- and 1/-. NO BOOKING FEE.
I J O U T H E A T R E, Jl E I. H O li R N E.
FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director , BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON, 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
CLINTON & BEATRICE, ELTON FOX, LESTREE,
LES WARTON, NEW YORK COMEDY QUARTETTE,
ERNEST PITCHER, ELEANOR & BERTIE, WYKE-
HAM & PRESTON.
Prices: 2/6, 2/-. 1/- k 6d.
MatinGes: 1/6, 1/- k 6<l.
OYT ’ S PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
THREE BIG SHOW S.
OLYMPIA, Princes Bridge.
NATIONAL THEATRE, Bourke Street (Eastern end).
HOYT’S OWN, Bourke Street, centre (now building).
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL.
SNOWDEN THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
.Just Over the Bridge.
Lessees and Managers: EDMUND DUGGAN and
ALFRED HARFORD.
ST All PICTURES WEEKLY.
War. Drama. Comedy.
Our Motto is “Nothing but the Best.”
See daily papers. Prices: 1/6, 1/- and Sixpence.
Matinees every Saturday, Children Half-price.
I R C H & CARROLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.


PROMOTE
hairgrowth
r sM
a
se
\
rl
tm.
With
CUTICURA
SOAP
And Cuticura Ointment.
They do much for irri-
tated, itching scalps,
dandruff and dry, thin
and falling hair, and do
it speedily, agreeably
and economically.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold throughout
the world. A liberal sample of each, with 32-page
booklet on the cart and treatment of the skin and
scalp, sent post-free. Address R. Towns &Co
Sydney,N.S. W.
Great Danger Ojf
Insecft Bites.
DOCTOR’S ALARMING STATEMENTS.
Protect Yourself Against Ordinary
Dangers by using
NEV-A-BITE
“There is no question,” says a leading-
specialist, “that insect bites may lead to great
danger to health, and have been known to end
fatally,”
This alarming'
statement, which
has appeared in
the influential
newspapers -of this
country, should
arouse the public
to the fact that
bites from mos-
quitoes and other
insects are things
to worry about.
It is quite pos-
sible that if one’s
blood is in a poor
state an insect
bite might set up
such serious in-
flammation as to
cause blood-poi-
The dread Mosquito,
whose bite is perhaps
the most dangerous of
all insects.
soning, and—as everyone well knows —blood-
poisoning may lead to even the amputation of
a limb.
One has only to glance at the illustration
given here of the mosquito to realise what
terrifying poison-injecting parts this insect
has. It is absolutely necessary, not' only for
the woman who desires to keep her complexion
in its natural condition, but also for the pro-
tection against more serious dangers, to secure
some reliable preparation which will prevent
insects from biting.
The best form of treatment of mosquito bites
is prophylactic, or preventive. The application
of a little of the Nev-a-bite lotion to the
forehead, neck and the instep (when openwork-
stockings are worn) reduces the probability of
mosquito-bites to a minimum.
Nev-a-bite is a perfectly harmless pre-
paration, and serves to whiten, soften and
beautify the skin.
Nev-a-bite can be obtained at 9d. per
bottle. Postage 3d. extra from —
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY
Manufacturing Chemists, MELBOURNE.
JASON
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
ash’s
For
marking
linen
WOVEN
NAMES
Your name is neatly woven in fast Turkey
Red on Cambric tape so that your Linen.
Clothing, Handkerchiefs, etc., are per-
manently marked by simply sewing the
name on. Prevents articles being mislaid
at laundry. Note the cost is small:
dozen 7/6 ; 6 dozen 5/-; 3 dozen 3/6.
Obtainable at all drapers and outfitters or
woven samples sent free on application to
J. & J. CASH LTD.,
346-50 Flinder* Lane, Melb.
T\
Always ask
for CASH’S
'So simple
MM
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HOLDS THE WORLD’S RECORD for LARGEST BONUSESr
NEXT DISTRIBUTION OF PROFITS AS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1914.
ALL participating policies issued in the Ordinary Department before the close of the current year will
share in the Cash Bonus to be then allotted. enao Knn
Cash Bonus divided for year 1913. . . . • • • £983,0uu
Yielding reversionary additions to policies of over . . . . £1,730,000
SOCIETY IS PURELY MUTUAL. NO SHAREHOLDERS.
ALL the profits earned are distributed among the participating policy-holders. .
NOW is the time to effect an assurance or a further assurance on your life so as to reap the benefit ot
this year’s cash Bonus.
WRITE to the Head Office, 87 Pitt Street, Sydney, or anv District Office or Agent of the Society for
lull particulars. RICHARD TEECE, F.T.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., JAMES STEEL,
General Manager and Actuary. Acting Secretary.
AN/EMIA
and Debility
IF you are run-down, easily exhausted and out
* of breath—if you feel slack, depressed, or
“out-of-sorts,” start a Course of Iron
‘Jelloids’ at once. Iron ‘ Jelloids’ are the
finest and most reliable tonic for all cases of
Anaemia or Debility. They quickly restore
vitality, and produce the rich healthy blood so
essential to good health and vigour. Iron
‘Jelloids’ are a perfectly safe remedy under
all conditions —pleasant, inexpensive, do not
harm the teeth, and are non-constipating.
Dr. Andrew Wilson wrote: —
“It can be definitely stated that Iron ‘Jelloids’
constitute the most effective and desirable
treatment for the cure of that common com-
plaint, that insidious and weakening condition,
no matter from what cause arising, known
as Anaemia or Poorness of Blood.”
A fortnight’s trial (Price 1/6) will convince you
Iron ‘Jelloids'
enrich the blood - renew vitality
Special Tonic for Men, Iron * Jelloids,’ No. 2A (containing Quinine). For
Women, Iron ‘Jelloids,’ No. 2. For Children, Iron ‘Jelloids,’ No. i.
IRON JELLOIDS are sold by all Chemists in Australia.
Manufactured only by The Jelloid Co., 205, City Road, London, England.
Wholesale: Druggists' Sundries Ltd., 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, JV.S. W.
Bfrsure yon take Iron'Jelloids 5 times a day
M
T D-DAY it is tho fashion to strike an individual
note in one's shoos, and it is very effective.
This personal note is attained by fully recog-
nising their dress value and by giving a little
extra thought to their selection. There is scope for
the exercise of a nice, discriminating taste in
Bostocks’ exclusive styles. They harmonise perfectly
with the newest toilettes and are the cream of
imported shoes.
Special shipments have recently arrived at the lead-
ing stores, and ladies should call before the choicest
styles are sold.
—ill
800
I
r
V
Refuting a
common error
f f f
• • •
m
After a series of tests to deter-
mine whether enamelled pans or
cast iron pans came to the boil
quicker, the Professor of Physics
at Birmingham University says:
“In every case the Cast Iron Pan
boiled in less time.”
Kenrick’s Cast Iron
Pots and Pans
BRITISH MADE
BY BRITISH
WORKMEN
On Sale at all
IRONMONGERS,
STORES, Etc.
last ten times as long as tinned
steel or enamelled ware; never
chip, rust or leak; keep cleaner
and boil quicker.
Business, Robbery, etc
An old -Parramatta (N.S.W.) property
was auctioned recently—Edgeworth Cottage,
the former home of the late James Byrnes,
member of the first and second Parliaments
and an early Minister. The Edgeworth pro-
perty was a Crown grant to Itowland Ilas-
sall, father of the Rev. Thomas Ilassall, who
married parson Marsden’s eldest daughter.
Rowland Hassall was one of the Duff mis-
sionaries, who were driven out of Tahiti by
the natives in 1797. In 1850 the property
was purchased by James Byrnes; he named
it Edgeworth after the Irish writer, who had
nursed him as an infant in Ireland. Byrnes’s
father was a military man, who served in
Ireland and subsequently in Sydney.
“Esche”: According to the report of the
Vic. Conservator of Forests, the output of
sawn hardwood during last year was over
G 4 million super feet, or nearly nine millions
more than the previous year’s total. Yet
only 753,750 ft. —chiefly mountain ash, mess-
mate and yellow stringy-bark —were treated
at the Newport seasoning kilns. This was
exclusive of (he parquet-flooring order for
the High Commissioner’s new offices in Lon-
don —208.100 super feet of tallow-wood,
stringybark and jarrah. Plant and buildings
at the works are said to be inefficient, though
much more business could have been done
if the timber that is so obviously abundant
had arrived from the mills..: One more or
less bright spot is the prospect of a foreign
softwoods shortage —especially Baltic deals
—and the demand for Vic. hardwoods should
move up to correspond. Also tree-planting
should.move up with the same velocity. But
that’s too much to expect. Heaven only
knows what the kid in a few generations to
come is going to boil the billy with. His
curses probably.
**. * *
“S.S.” : The smiling Asiatic who provides
us with “callot,” and whose name is Com
Suey, tells my unpatriotic family not to be
afraid of the Germans. “All li’,” he says,
“you no be flightened. My countlymen come
long plotect you. Twenty million Chinese
come ’Stlalia fight German. Fifty million
Chinese come. Hundled million! ’Spose
bundled thousan’ Germans come —kill ’em.
Spose fi’ million Germans come, welly good,
kill ’em. Plenty mo’ German come all better.
More German * get killed more cabbagee
glow.” Then he adds confidentially: “Yes,
much more cabbagee glow.” Here. is a
new way of encouraging our native indus-
tries.
* * * *
The old lie that no best thing can be
produced in Australasia is getting another
rude jar in Maoriland. Drivers of commer-
cial motors who are beginning to use the
heavy benzine which the Taranaki Oil Wells
are producing declare that no other spirit
gives better results, Users of motor-boats
are handing out the same testimonial, and as
other grades of spirit will soon be on the
market, the hope is getting about that lOU-
land will shortly supply its own motor-fuel
innstead of dragging it at great expense from
the dollar-diseased U.S.A.
* * * ’ *
“Hermes”: When the European winter
gives place to the blooms of May, the goods
which will be out of fashion before the next
cold spell cease to be of any serious value. Aus-
tralian buyers then rake them in for a mere
fraction of what they cost, and they pay
duties levied on that ridiculous figure. The
consequence is that Australian manufac-.
turers have to compete with goods that are
sold to the importer at a price at which even
a sweated Chinaman couldn’t make them.
That would be bad enough; but then, to
make matters worse, the importer nays duty,
not on the fair value, but on the invoiced
value, no matter how much below cost it
may be. The system is utterly rotten. We
can’t stop Australian importers from making
foreign purchases at under cost; but we can
at least see that they pay duty on the fair
value every time. If the present law won’t
allow the Customs to give this protection to
Australian manufacturers, then what’s the
matter with amending the law? We employ
an expensive Parliament for the express pur-
pose of doing just such jobs as that.
* * * *
“M.L.”: The Ma State’s Savings Bank
started this way: Transportees and others
having more money than they needed for
rum could deposit it with Robert Campbell,
“a very respectable merchant,” whose own
savings still make some Sydney people com-
fortable. He paid 7| per cent, per annum
—and lent at 10 per cent. At the begin-
ning of 1831 he had £lO,OOO in his keeping,
for which the Government was responsible,
but against which it held no security. So
Governor Bourke recommended to Downing-
street that a Government Savings Bank be
established. The occasionally-obliging Down-
ing-street agreed—hence the bank.
THE BOTTLE-O.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
How wickedly the biting scorn
Of worthy citizens attaches
To any bloke who’s lowly born,
And for a modest living scratches
While pushing his big barrow by,
And, from a parched and dusty throttle,
Uplifting aye his mournful cry,
And prosecuting low and high
His never-ending quest of bottle!
Most other kinds of graft they bless.
To bottle-o's less worthy neighbor,
Who wags a shovel more or less,
The} prate of “dignity of labor.”
The eaipenter’s a noble soul;
So is the cabbie or the chauffeur ;
They like the wharf hand on the whole,
And quite approve the navvy’s r6le —
But bottle-o’s a dirty loafer!
The fine old gents who talk this way
Are over two feet in the narrow.
They’d peter out in half a day
If set to push a loaded barrow.
For me, I like the bottle-o,
His virtues rather highly rating;
Most useful middleman I know,
He hates a vacuum, and so
Takes empties to the Bacchic flow,
And keeps the bottle circulating.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


SPORTING RIFLES
of Reliability and Accuracy.
SssSfii
“WINCHESTER,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
22 Cal. Him Fire, peep or V sights, scroll
trigger guard, rubber heel plate,
weight 2flb.
M
The above Rifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear sight,
Postage—l/6 N.S.W., 2/8 Inter-State.
22/6
THE MAINE
Pifle
<She using Qif/e A parr.
“THE MAINE” S.S. Rifle
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It
is a take-down, and can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore arm. The action
used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is exceedingly simple, con-
sisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored and rifled
with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed
accurate; weight 31b., fitted with plain V back sight
Postage on one Rifle—l/3 N.S.W. ; 2/2 Inter-State.
74/-
GUN and
RIFLE
REPAIRS
• !"
a Speciality.
Send for our Price
List of Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition and
all Sporting Goods.
Post Free, Anywhere.
M
Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906 Model,
16 shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger, straight grip, slide action,
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges.
Postage— 2/- N.S.W.. 3/8 Inter-State.
47 6
-G
BAYARD SEMI-AUTOMATIC RIFLE,
22 cal., 19in. Round Steel Barrel, length over
085 m., weight 3§lb., handles short or
long cartridges,
24/-
Postage—l/6 N.S.W., 2/8 Inter-State.
sr
Stevens’ “FAVORITE,”
22 W.R.F., or 22 Calibre Rim Fire, half-octagon 22in. barrel,
case-hardened frame, solid breech block, take down action, open front and rear
sights, weight 4£lb. Postage-1/9 N.S.W., 3/2 Inter-State.
We can supply the above Rifles fitted with Beach Combination Front Sisrht and Vernier Rear
25 or 32 Rim Fire Calibres, same description as above, 2/6 each extra. ’
24
35-
Sa
m
“ Winchester ” Single Shot
Rifle, 1904 Model,
for 22 short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy
steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight, length of rifle over-
all. ST/sin., bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish ; weight, about 41b.
Postage—l/9 N.S.W. ; 3/2 Inter-State.
261-
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
City Sports Depot: 119 King Street, Sydney;
and at Hunter Street, Newcastle.
KYNOCH
USE
BRITISH MADE
.22 Rim Fire CARTRIDGES
Head Works: Birmingham, England. And at Melbourne § Sydney.
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
of New
South Wales
Limited
Funds under Administration, Upwards of £3,200,000.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Executors, Trustees, Attorneys, Agents, etc
Cost of Estate Administration Largely Curtailed ur der this Company’s Method.
AMPLE SECURITY AND EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT ASSURED.
Write for Full Particulars, sent Post Free.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. a. perceval Bedford, Manager.
p
LOCAL'
ligfv
<3)y
...Your
Aim r
/Then have a3HOT
W% at smoking
Referee
The Australian Tobacco
M
iHM-IJLS
IIMWi
Bseau
SPm*
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may he secured separately by the day from ds.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all I ar-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s (id posted. Meriuk
England, 6d. How to Gut Rum, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is fid. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare bool; by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zolas,
including Nana, Is 6d each, )>osted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s fid posted. Riddle of'the
Universe, Sd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List)." Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d ." Nigger. Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop llandyiiook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Gam es,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Spout- ’
ingPamphlet, 1/2. T[ie Yoke, by Hubert Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto,
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Like. 1
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’Guide (simple tests for minerals),
38 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, .Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. San dow’s Book of Strength. 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Nor Guilty (Blatcn-.
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is (id.
God and My Neighbor, (id. Britain for the
British, od. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d % Diseases of Horses, 1
is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering!, ’ls 2d Prof. Fowler;B Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is Gri.
m
H
■
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
Bt Dr. E. B. FOOTE,
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and snows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand Questions tnat occur to the minds oi young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting- thei r physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers! The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. "WI
gipsy fortune telling gauds-love,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, 6ce., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win, at Cards, is 3u. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is: post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing; Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Buies' for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. Is: post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handy book, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, Ac, Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannax’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and mam-
others, ail at 2s 6d each posted. Lee s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. §BF"Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE COT FROM THIS ADVT.
■ Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT in stamps, money order, or j
POSTAL NOTE OE ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,'ls
posted. New Thicks with Gauds, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Push Songs, is 3d post. Du. Milford’s Mid-
wife's Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
iNGEItSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Headings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d costed. Tiie Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is cost. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITEFOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


\
t
*
lit I'l >
I" Un.
■ i
■MtfiftUl
Pi 1 111
PI III!
U.-JU..JL&
man*
I** i IWt
/
Workers All Use REXONA
Round the Tram Sheds, the Work Shops, on the Wharves, and at the
Factories, you will hear all the boys say: “Rexona is the best Remedy in
the whole country. We always use it.”
All these healthy lads know what they are talking about. They live a
strenuous life, and always wish to be in fit condition; but bruises,
abrasions, cuts and hurts are bound to come their way, in the natural
course of events, and it is when these occur that they prove the worth
of Rexona, the Rapid Healer.
REXONA— —Everyone’s Friend.
There are so many uses for Rexona that everyone is using it now. One day it
may be found useful for the minor hurts which are forever occurring in everyday
life, and another day it will prove invaluable for the more serious troubles, such
as Piles, Eczema and various forms of Skin Disorders. People in every class of life
use Rexona, from the highest to the lowest, and Rexona brings relief to all; so
get a 1/(1 pot of Rexona to-day, and you will soon find it so useful that it will not
be king before you are getting the larger pots holding nearly four times the
quantity, for 3/-.
o
o
0
THE RAPID HEALER
ap
/r y ‘ - > v»
Sji
Introduce to Your Table
a New Fascination—
“REX”
HAM PATE.
“Rex” Ilam Pate has a'flavor that will carry
yon hack somewhere to the time when your
palate was fresh and life was new.
Its flavor consists not so much in-what we
have put in. but rather in what we have
brought out.
It has the real Ham taste, and is a palate-satisfying delicacy. You can use
“REX” HAM PATE
in scores of different ways. (Jet a tin to-day from your Grocer and (ry it.
Nothing better for Sandwiches for Suppers.- Afternoon Tea and Luncheons,
splendid on a soft, flaky biscuit.
All Grocers.sell “Ilex” Ham Pate. Take no proffered .substitute.
Other “Rex” Canned Delicacies are
Just
Veal and Tongue Pate, ill), tins.
Pork Brawn, 111), tins.
Pork Sausages, III), tins.
Pork and Beans, 1111). tins.
Pigs’ Feet, in Jelly, lib. tins.
Fundi Tongues, in Jelly, 111), tins.
“Rex” Sheep’s Tongues, in Jelly, lib. tins.
“Rex” Funelieon Cheese, in deeorated tins only.
AND
“Rex” Brand Fard, for cooking purposes, in
lib. prints.
“BEX” FRESH SMALL GOODS, procurable at
all Grocers’ ami Small-goods’ shops and carts
in Brisbane and District, and Bendigo and
District only.
Saveloys.
Strassburg Sausage.
Veal German Sausage.
White Puddings.
Black Puddings.
Pork Sausages.
Frankfurt Sausage.
gc
RE
X
BRAHJP j
Fog'g'itt, Jones &, Co. Ltd.
Curers of “Rex** Hams and Bacon,
PacKers of “Rex” Pore Food Produufts,
Makers of “Rex” Small Goods.
Cut-throat Alley.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
A FIDDLER was Guido, dark and small,
He lived, where pushes rally.
' In a weatherboard hovel, about to fall,
With leaky roof and rotten wall.
Alone, in Cut-throat Alley.
He met a maid, she looked divine,
Madonna of the ballet,
He bowed, he asked her out to dine.
Gave her flowers., and a bottle of wine,
Red wine, in Cut-throat Alley.
Oh, she was line, and she was fair,
A lily of the valley,
With innocent eyes and reogold hair;
He loved ; and he lodged her then and there,
Ilis joy, in Cut-throat Alley.
Next when he strummed flash kens within,
A slave chained to the galley;
Operas, rag-time —through the din
He pined, till he cased his violin.
For his “piece” in Cut-tliroat Alley.
And he smiled last night at the drizzling
rain,
Though forth he had to sally,
And smiling, peered through his window-
pane
A man stole out of the narrow lane
By the back, in Cut-throat Alley.
Now round the door they grin and gloat,
Julia’s neighbors pally.
And “D’s” walk in and make a note;
For the Dago cut her traitor throat
Last night, in Cut-throat Alley.
VICTORIA.
LCUIS ESSON.
Pork Quoted “Firm.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
HE big, thin man with the freckled
hands, who sat facing the engine,
•leaned to the fat commercial on the
seat with its back to the engine, as the train
panted up the grade to Tallarook.
“Not much war news, is there?”
The fat commercial looked up, frowned,
agreed there was verv little, and returned to
the study of his paper again.
The man with the freckled hands was a
kindly, stupid soul —-one of those who cannot
take a snub because they cannot imagine
anybody intending rudeness to them since
they show no rudeness for others.
“Did you see that Turkey’s joined in?”
“Yes.”
“That’ll mean sending troops to Egypt.”
“Yes.”
“We’ll beat ’em in the long run.”
“Grrrh!”
“I suppose you’ve had enough talk of the
war?”
“Yes.”
“Get sick of it? —-a man does.”
“Yes.”
“But we’ll have to hear a lot more of it
before it’s over.”
“Grrrh!”
“What’s your line —rags?”
“Hardware.”
“I suppose the war’s cut a lot of your lines
out?”
“Yes-s-s.”
“Imports can’t affect me. Nobody sends
meat here.”
“No!”
“We’re the only fools in the world who de-
pend on imported manufactures, anyhow.”
“Grrrh!”
“The drought’s pinching me in one way
and helping me in another.”
“Yes-s-s.”
“I’ve got a place up Riverina, and it’s
pretty bad there —sheep dying wholesale.”
“Yes-s-s.”
“But a lot of stock’s coming forward; so
that helps us out at the cannery.”
“Yes-s-s.”
“Australia ought to go in more for pig
raising.”
The fat commercial put down his paper
and glanced at the man with the freckled
hands.
“Whatcha say?”
“We ought to raise more pigs.”
“Grrrh !”
“Pork is firm.”
“Damn it, man; let me read.”
“All right—no off,nee. My troubles!”
There was apparently offence to himself.
He looked hard at the commercial opposite,
and then he turned to the man next him —a
man in a beaufort coat and other raiment —
and talked the same thing all over again in
the same order of statement as the train
climbed the grade to Seymour.
“We ought to grow more pigs.”
The commercial was restive as the freckled
man’s neighbor replied: “You’re right; see
the quantity of pork America raises.”
“Nearly as much pork as mutton goes
through Chicago.”
The train pulled up. The commercial, col-
lecting his baggage, called to a porter: “Hey !
Shift these into another carriage where I can
be quiet.”
lie alighted, almost throwing the last bag
at the porter in his hurry.
The man with the freckled hands was
almost annoyed.
“No offence,” he said to the commercial;
“but pork is firm,”
“Damn pork!” said the fat * commercial,
and ran away.
“Come and have a drink,” said the man of
the freckled hands. “I wonder what’s up
with that chap. Anybody ud think I’d hurt
his feelings. He looks at pork as if he was a
rabbi.”
“You have hurt his feelings. That’s big
Bill Costlow.”
“Well, what’s that to do with it?”
you when we get going again.”
“It was this way with Costlow,” said the
man with the beaufort coat. “Costlow is a
hardware man—travels the West and North-
East all the week, and takes tile bull’s train
to Melbourne Fridays. lie’s a very careful
man, and he files every shilling he gets until
it’s square, so it won’t be able to roll away
from him.”
“I see —mean.”
“No—not mean; that doesn’t describe it.
He likes to buy for pennies and sell for sov-
ereigns. and the millennium is any day he gets
something for nothing. Meets a'man who
has a wallaby or a pet lamb- ox- a beautiful
parrot and says: ‘What a nice wallaby!—or
pet lamb !’ —or ‘What a beautiful parrot!
Does be talk?’ —until the owner, if he’s got
any Spaniard in him, and most men have,
says: ‘Oh, take it if you admire it so much.’
And he takes it and beats the record for
acceptances. He’ll accept any weight you
like to put on him—unless he lias to pay for
an ounce of it. That’s Costlow.
"S’posing you said: ‘Here’s an A.U.S.N.
liner, or a locomotive, or an elephant,’ and you
said, ‘Take it, Mr. Costlow, if you can carry
it’; well, he’d just kill himself trying to lift
it and take it home. lie never asks for any-
thing for the value of it. It’s always, ‘What
a fine pumpkin. My little boy plays with
pumpkins. Give him a pumpkin, and he will
play with it for hours.’ Not only a pumpkin,
either —a parrot, or a wallaby, or a pet lamb,
or a traction engine. His little boy likes
playing with ’em all—at least, that’s what
he sayg. I believe if he saw a chance of a
terrace of houses for a Christmas box he’d
say his little boy liked a terrace of houses
better than a monkey on a stick. And per-
sistent! If he wanted a magpie’s nest at the
top of a bisr red gum a hundred feet to the
first branch, he’d wait till the tree died and
fell for him —something like that, anyway,
lie doesn’t want any friends that want any-
thing, and lie drinks on the same system, lie
believes that he boozes the farthest who
boozes alone —not that lie takes too much,
because he prides himself on being always on
his guard. The world’s an armed camp to
him, and he thinks there’s a sentinel on every
corner and that lie’s forgotten the password
and painted out the countersign.
“Well, the other day lie’s down at Koroit,
and after lie’s sold rabbit-traps and sauce-
pans and bar iron to old Stick-in-tlie-Mud at
one of the stores, they get talking friendly.
Costlow tells Stick-in-the-Mud all about his
kid. and Stick-in-the-Mud has his fatherly
pride, too, though a bachelor —with one
narrow escape in 1882 that frightened him
for keeps. Stick-in-the-Mud has a pink-nosed
sow in the sty at the end of his orchard, and
that pink-nosed sow has the manners of a
self-made merchant, and clean, white whiskers
all over it like a member of the Legislative
Council. That sow has been increasing the
volume of Australian statistics, and there’s
eight piglets to show for it—squeaking for
precedence in tin l dairy.
“Stick-in-the-Mud is so enamored of these
increases in the effective birthrate that he
takes Costlow down to look at the community.
“‘Fine lot. ain’t they?’ says Stiek-in-the
Mud.
“ ‘My word, yes,’ says Costlow. ‘Never
saw a finer.’
“‘Her mother is a half-prize Poland twice-
removed,’ says Stick-in-the-Mud. and Costlow
got his mind set on removing one of her pig-
lets at once. He looked rouffd with his eyes
as little and as cunning as the *%ly people,
and at last he alights on the pearl of, all pigs
—a piglet as large as two large white pud-
dings, with legs as big and dirty white as a
liver sausage, a tail curled up so tight he
could have done trapeze work by it, and his
eyes lost in the fat of his head. He was
attending strictly to business, and was trying
to flatten his nose more than nature had. and
Costlow saw at once that he was a great
pig—hardy and a good doer.
“ ‘They’re beautiful,’ said Costlow. trying
with loud enthusiasm to make a Spaniard of
old Stick-in-the-Mud.”
The man of the freckled hands inter-
posed : “What . did he want to make a
Spaniard of him for?”
“A real high-grade Spaniard—a topnotcli
Don—gives a visitor whatever be admires
most; so it isn’t etiquette to admire his
possessions. There’s a bit of a Spaniard that
way in everybody, and though there wasn’t
any in Costlow, he understood other people.
He admired the piglets so long and loud that
old Stick-in-the-Mud began to feel that they
weren’t his pigs any more. And then Cost-
low fired all the battery on him.
“‘Down at my place in Melbourne,’ he
said, ‘l’ve got three-quarters of an acre, and
a nice place for a sty with high grass all
round it. and three oak trees and millions of
acorns on ’em—pigs like acorns. I know. And
there’s all the kitchen stuff and vegetables
out of the garden, and if I had a pig he’d
be the happiest pig in Australia.’
“ ‘H’m !’ said Stick-in-the-Mud, putting up
a weak struggle in the net.
“.‘And my little boy could play with him.’
said Costlow. ‘You give that boy of mine a
nice white piglet to play with, and he’ll stay
good for hours.’
“Stick-in-the-Mud didn’t care whether
Costlow’s little boy stayed good for hours
or committed burglary every minute. He
only felt himself going, and he said ‘h’m’
again and left it at that.
“ ‘You’ve no idea,’ says Costlow, ‘what
a comfort a little pig is in a garden. There
lie sits in his sty with the grass all around
him. and looking up at the oak trees as if
he was just about begging for acorns; and
my little boy comes down in his little white
pants and white sweater, and plays with
that little white pig in the green grass.
You’d never see anything prettier in your
life.... What d’ye think?’
“Then Stick-in-the-Mud knew he was gone,
and he says weakly : ‘Well, which one would
y' like?’
“Costlow pretends to make a choice, but
he’d made it already, and after a minute
he says: ‘Well, what about that one?’ and
points to the flower of the flock.
“‘That! Why., that’s Squibkins—Charles
Squibkins, the Village Fatsmith.’
“ ‘Why do you call him that?’ asks Cost-
low, more determined than ever to have that
piglet, and no other piglet.
“ ‘l’ve got them all named. That feller
with the thick ear is the Iveesir; an’ the
darker lookin’ feller is the Sultan ; an’ that
sneerin’ lookin’ cove is the leader o’ the
Liberal party. An’ I call that one Squibkins,
the Village Fatsmith. He’s a fish-oil travel-
ler, an’ that little pig’s slanty, sneakin’ eye.
an’ his -greed an’ vanity is just like Squib-
kins—-ah’* I call him ’that. But Wouldn’t
the Iveesir do?’ .
“ ‘lf you don’t mind. I’d ybe a,£raid to
let my little boy play with him —he looks a
bit fierce, an’ the slanting-eyed one ; only
looks sneaking. D’ye mind? My little boy
could play with him all day.’
“In the end Stick-in-the-Mud handed over
the piglet.- and Costlow borrowed a candle-
box to carry him im and borrowed a hammer
and nails to make a booby hatch on the top
of the box to give the pig air. And then
on next, page.)


Il
JV'
«
EVERYBODY} EVEB-REAfly H[/\L£g >,
Require Prompt Dressing with ZAM-BUK
INSEPARABLE from the rough, tearing work of the work-
shop, railroad, farm or cattle station are those every-
day cuts and bruises which may be neglected once too
often. Zam-Buk has brought to the worker new possibilities
in “first aid.” Clean the skin round the wound or cut, and
promptly dress the injury with Zam-Buk. Zam-Buk does
more than allay pain and inflammation; it prevents fester-
ing and blood-poisoning, and heals up your hurt quickly and
perfectly. Zam-Buk is wholesome, and contains none of the
rancid animal fats that make old-fashioned ointments so
risky and useless. When you cut or scratch yourself the
best' thing to do is to apply Zam-Buk, the powerful anti-
septic and healer.
_ CUT HIS HAND WHILE SAWING.
Painful, Inflamed, Festering Wound Healed.
“While sawing, my husband inflicted a nasty wound in
his left hand with the saw.” says Mrs. F. Reid, of Fleet
Street, Devonport, N.Z. “The wound inflamed and festered
up, and stubbornly refused to heal, notwithstanding the
various remedies and treatments we tried.
“At length we happened across Zam-Buk, and
were so encouraged with the marvellous benefits
derived from the first applications that we continued
to apply this excellent balm. Zam-Buk drew all the
I bad matter out of the sore, allayed all inflammation,
finally healing up the place with clean, healthy skin.”
Every Worker Needs ZAM-BUK.
Zam-Buk is a perfect remedy for eczema, ringworm,
ulcers, bad leg, blood poisoning, scalp disease, running
sores, festering wounds, sore feet, piles, scalp disease, rasli,
and quickly heals cuts, burns, scalds, sprains, bruises,
scratches, and similar skin injuries. Zam-Buk is sold by
all stores and chemists at 1/6 and 3/6 per pot.
"Yes, It Gives a Queenly
Complexion QuicKly, Surely.
TOILET TALKS.
THE average woman of to-day is usually
satisfied if her complexion is passably
pretty, little knowing that an exquisite skin
is now within her reach, providing she has
the good sense to stop using cheap made-up
preparations, and adopt what has now be-
come known as the mercolised wax habit.
It is a pity that every woman in the land
cannot be apprised of this simple method.
The few to whom its virtues are already
known have complexions that are the envy
of all their friends, and, as is usually the
case, the majority of them refuse to divulge
the secret. However, the formula has now
been verified, and is known as
mercolised wax. Enquiry at
several chemists’ shops has re-
sulted in ascertaining that this
substance has been known to
the select few for some years as
a complexion beautifier, but it
is only until quite recently that
it has been used to any extent
for this purpose. It was also
explained how mercolised wax
renews the complexion, but as
this is rather technical it is not
proposed to repeat it here. It
will be sufficient to say that
through some peculiar action the
wax absorbs the dead and dis-
colored outer cuticle, revealing tlie fresh
young complexion which every, woman has
underneath. The process occupies about ten
days, and the change is so gradual and im-
perceptible that no discomfort whatever is
caused. The treatment is perfectly harm-
less. and the wax may be used as often as
desired.
NOW what about that shampoo? Pre-
sumably like a good many others you
follow blindly in the beaten track, without
a moment’s thought as to where it will
eventually lead you. It is an impossibility
to expect the saane make of shampoo to suit
each individual head of hair. In some cases
it would take out too much of the natural
oil, and in okhers not enough. Fair folks
require a milder shampoo than those with
flark tresses; therefore the logical course to
MM
pursue is to make your own shampoo and
graduate the strength according to the sus-
ceptibilities of your hair. The brush will
tell you whether you are treating the hair
properly. Like a plant in congenial soil the
hair will grow and flourish providing the
conditions are right; but abuse it as most
women do by washing it with some strong
alkaline solution and the effect is practically
the same as if you poured weed-killer over
growing plants. Before leaving the subject
I should like to mention that a few months
ago my local chemist recommended me to try
ordinary stallax in place of the usual made-
t .IT. 4- fLnf
up powders, and I must say that
this substance, to my mind,
forms an ideal medium for the
purpose mentioned. If anything
it makes the hair rather too
fluffy and wavy, but some folks
prefer it so.
IT is astonishing the number
of women who suffer from
the humiliating affliction of
superfluous hair, and I am sorry
to say that through ignorance
or wrong treatment, the majority
of them have made matters con-
siderably worse by causing the
hairs to grow more quickly and
stronger than before. It only requires
a little thought to realise the folly
of it all. Removing the surface growth
for a few days may give temporary
relief, but in order to obtain per-
manent results the hair roots must be
killed. Caustic depilatories are worse than
useless, and on no account should the
hairs be pulled out. Apart from the
electric needle, which is a costly and pain-
ful process, any chemist will tell you
that the best home treatment is pure pow-
dered pheminol, which has _ a devitalising
effect upon the hair roots, in addition to
which it removes all trace of the objection-
able hair in a few seconds, and the
recommended treatment gradually, but surely,
dissolves out the hair follicles,
is the only method of permanently ridding
oneself of this terrible disfigurement.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prtze Medals-
M
Works; Birminghaw, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Costlow told Stick-in-the-Mud how his little
boy would thank him for the gift, and he
went oyer to the train —it being Friday—
and Stick-in-the-Mud watched him go and
wondered why he caved in to martial law
and let it commandeer a pig.
“Costlow took his prize into a smoker,
and gave the pig a well ventilated ride by
putting him up in the parcels rack.
“ ‘That box ought to go in the van, Mr.
Costlow,’ says the porter.
“ ‘lt’s all right, porter,’ says Costlow.
getting palpitation of the pluck because he
might have to tip the porter, which would
be half as bad as paying for the piglet in
the van.
“ ‘lt’s not part of your samples?’
“ ‘No—only—a few —a few flowers.’
“ ‘All right—so long’s it don’t annoy other
passengers.’ And he banged the door and
gave the guard right of way. Costlow
breathed freely again, but there was a very
little old man—very nervy and irritable-
in the other corner, and the Village Fat-
smith in the box squeaked when he thought,
of the home he had been kidnapped from.
The little old man looked hard at the box,
and then at Costlow, and then back to his
paper again; but he was very suspicious
and waited for the refreshment station,
when Costlow got out for a cup of tea.
“Then the old chap stood on the seat and
looked into the box and saw the mean little
eye of the piglet looking at him, and he got
down and raised a row. Along came a
stationmaster and wanted to know the
FORK QUOTED “FIRM.
Photograph of a page of this tale in Randolph Bedford's own handwriting.
owner of the pig, and Costlow came back
jukt as the train was pulling out.
“‘You put that pig off next station or
I’ll know why,’ the s.m. shouted to Costlow
as the train pulled out; but, bless you, Cost-
low wasn’t likely to part up to give a joy-ride
to a pig. At the next station he got out and
pretended to buy a paper, and the old man
in the carriage went off his chump with rage.
He and Costlow quarrelled all the way to the
next station, and that was 15 miles; and
Costlow made the old man more poisonous by
calling him ‘lnformer’ and ‘Blackmailer’
and ‘Spoil-sport’—though what sport there
can be in riding on a rail with a pig like a
fish-oil traveller, I don’t know.
“When the train stopped, the old chap put
the box outside, and Costlow retrieved it as
the train started, and they went on like that,
bal'ging and calling each other nasty names
all the way to Geelong. There was more
tinle there, and the stationmaster had had a
wife about the pig from down the line. He
made Costlow pay for the pig as a parcel
and put it in the van, and he took Costlow’s
name and said he would prosecute him for
carrying live stock in a passenger carriage.
“But he got the pig to Melbourne and
carried him home, and clouted his dear little
son Whenever he caught him playing with
Squibkins. He had paid 3s. 6d. to carry that
pig to his dayboo in the metropolis, and the
3s. 6d. made the pig too valuable to be trifled
with. He thought him the more valuable
when, a week later, he was fined £3 and costs
for carrying live stock in a passenger car-
riage. And when he got home that week-end
his wife told him that the neighbors had com-
plained, and that, the inspector of nuisances
intended to prosecute him for keeping a pig
in a prohibited area. Costlow, by this time,
was as mad as the Kaiser. He saw this was
likely to be the dearest pig in the world since
ever Moses put the curse on bacon; but when
his wife suggested giving it away he got
madder.
“ ‘D’ye know what that cost?’ he said. ‘Up
to now that dash pig owes me £4 2s. 6d.!
What have you got for Sunday?’
“ ‘I ordered roast beef, but it won’t be
delivered until to-morrow.’
“ ‘Phone ’em we don’t want it, then, and
I’ll—l’ll kill the pig.’
“ ‘Can you do it, though, dear?'
“.‘Kill that pig? I’ll kill him with plea-
sure ! I’ll do it in the morning.’
“So, Saturday, bright and early, Costlow
put on the clothes he went iishiug in and the
washerwoman’s sack apron, and lie stuck the
Village Fatsmith, and the piglet died at the
top of his voice. Costlow dressed the remains,
and hung ’em up under the house in a big
cupboard with fine wire sides like a meat
safe. That day he got a summons to answer
a breach of the by-laws in keeping a pig
within coo-ee of civilisation. He was too
mad to eat on Sunday—he just went on
making the stuffing and waiting for venge-
ance on the pig. Then he went under the
house and found that pork was quoted easier.
His dear, beautiful little boy had taken the
neighbors’ boys to see Squibkins and left the
door wide open, and the flies had made that
pork infirm. Costlow sent the kid to bed and
buried the piglet among the tall grass He
said nothing that day, being speechless-mad,
and tlie family lived on jam and puddings till
Monday.”
“That’s why he doesn’t read pork quota-
tions, is it?” asked the freckled-handed man.
“That’s partly why; but there’s more. Fri-
day he has to lose the day to go to the court.
He pleads guilty, says he didn’t know and has
got rid of the pig, and they ask him how, and
he said he slaughtered it and it went bad and
he buried it; and the magistrate laughed and
fined him 40s. and costs, and Costlow groaned
and. paid, and was glad it was all over. Fol-
lowing Monday he was served with a sum-
mons for slaughtering on unlicensed premises,
and they fined him some more. That’s why he
hates anybody to talk pig.”
“Pork is firmer, though,” said the meat-
buyer, as thev left the train at Wangaratta.
“There’s nothing pays like pigs.”
The fat man he brushed against as he
walked uttered a cry of horror and hurried
away. It was Mr. Costlow, the owner of the
most unpayable pig since Abraham first called
ham mutton in company.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
On Sand.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
DO you remember, Dearest Own,
That night upon the sun-warm sand
When first you ventured far alone
With me, and first I held your hand?
’Twas such another night a 3 this,
By such another sighing sea ; 4
I stole the first delicious kiss,
And you were all the world to me.
These are the very stars that gleamed
On your dear eyes, and through your hair ;
These seem the very waves that dreamed,
And sent soft music through the air.
Do you recall the little boats,
Gem-lighted, like a fairy fleet?
And hark ! The self-same music floats
Across the water, softly sweet!
And, hark again ! The golden chime
That rings from yonder distant tower;
If, darling, I could think of time,
Their tone would tell the self-same hour.
Come closer, dearest, let us now
Live those sweet moments o’er again;
And let me breathe the self-same vow,
Just as I swore it to you then.
Ah. when I wrote upon the sand
“My Rosalie ” —you knew the truth —
Nay, do not snatch away your hand !
It was not you? Your name is Ruth !
MAJOBCA, SPAIN.
WAIF.


Westinghouse - Cross
FOUR-CYCLE
Marine Oil Engines
1
.. . for ...
Fishing Boats,
Cargo Vessels,
Large Auxiliaries,
Barges, etc.,
. . . are ...
Simply Constructed,
Effectively Controlled,
and Extremely Flexible
in Speed and Power.
BUILT IN SIZES FROM
7 to 120 H.P.
of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Ch urch, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike. Wellington
Concord West, N. S. Wales
r-s:
NOIXVNiaiAiOO
SAW BENCH
mi PLANER
BRUM MADE
Saw—l 6 inches.
Planing—6 inches.
Moulding and TMeknessing—4% in.
Double Rising and Falling Tables—
-26 x 22 and 26 x 12 inches.
Weight, about scwt.
TA
£3O
w-m
m
n
8®
•j
mz
ngineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
larence Street, Sydney
ll
s\\AT7 / / '-«
Hi
Lime -Irxiit Jmoe.
Brings to your lips the juice
of the lime fruit.
It fs a drink that is always cooling and refreshing.
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped
from London.
MONTSERRAT is sold by all leading Sto
M
What a Shotgun
Shooter Says:
’‘l have been shooting a shofgun all my
life; in fact it is by far my favorite sport.
We shotgun shooters are very partic-
ular. Having used every brand of
cartridges on the market, I have definite
reasons for selecting RefniflgtOtlrUMC
cartridges. I believe their steel lined,
waterproofed cases and careful loading
give me better pattern and greater pen-
etration at longer distances. That means
better results and a better day’s sport. When
I find something good I stick to it, so specify
when laying in supplies.
Shotgun Shooters Get Best Results With
M
RemingtonrllMC
Remington Arms—
Union-Metallic Cartridge Co.
New York London
Catalogs free
'V I i
V
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d.
I HAVE
ABOUT THE MERITS OF
BCEOUMS Pills
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle..
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
l/li. 2/9 & 4/6. Made id England.
M
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks at
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
rite cough of BRONCHITIS and
, CONSUMPTION.^
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
DINNEFORD'S
Magnesia
M
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
,
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
________ . ■ ‘
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE. Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all
cases of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
Price, 3/- per box, or a course of 8
Boxes for £l. Post free under
plain cover.
On Sale at all Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF P
\fOU begin to
1 look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyer's
M
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON'T LOOK OLD.


NGROvrr
LEATHER
LTI
is the ALL AUSTRALIAN BELT.
In buying it you are not trading with the
enemy, nor adding to the profits of foreign
shareholders.
Sole Manufacturer and Proprietor:—
CHARLES LUDOWICI,
49 York Street, Wynyard Square, SYDNEY
(only).
Telephones: City 2898, 8406.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing; over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
CO
ft
£
fTSMUI
A
&
7
Norton Grinding Wheels.
ALUNDUM —The Grinding Wheel for
HIGH CARBON STEELS
HIGH-SPEED STEELS
SPECIAL ALLOY STEELS.
CRYSTOLON —The Grinding Wheel for
3 CAST IRON
CHILLED IRON
BRASS or BRONZE.
If you have a Grinding Problem, there is
abundant reason why you should inquire if
Norton experience can aid in its solution.
You have only to call or write Agents—
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY,
It is the Power
Your Belt
Transmits
that
Counts.
•ST
4F
rfj£23Cji|[|£3j
Be
Sure
„ and
Specify
DICK’S
BELTING
SoijE Agents-
Jas. Hardie 8 Co.
Circular Quay,
SYDNEY.
And MELBOURNE.
MACHINERY
DALCETY & COMPANY LIMITED
MERCHANTS
MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY—and at Melbourne, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville, Adelaide, Perth.
mmatt
m
m
TANCYE
LAMPLESS OIL ENGINE.
A marked improvement
in Kerosene Oil Engines-
Engine started immedi-
ately from cold. No
lamp required.
The best for Shearing,
Pumping, Chaffcutting,
Irrigating, etc.
TANCYE
SUCTION CAS PLANTS.
These Well-known and
Reliable Plants gene-
rate power for Mills,
Factories, Mines, etc.,
at remarkably Low Cost.
Write us about them.
THE
.
A
CO
CO
UJ
%
-<TfTX>
>0
CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH
STEAM and OIL TRACTORS.
Specially adapted for Plough-
ing Large Areas. Most gratify-
ing-results have been obtained
in New South Wales with the
new “ Clayton ” Oil Tractor. It
works on ordinary kerosene.
NICHOLSON & MORROW
“ UNION ” FARM IMPLEMENTS.
“ Union ” Harvesters, Drills,
Cultivators and Ploughs are
Wonderfully popular with
Australian Farmers. Their
extra strong construction is
a notable feature.
O
m
t> . v tSafiS
=m!Hna=i7
GANE Milking Machines.
Crutching Plants.
TANGYE Winches, Chain Blocks, Lifting Jacks. Steam Engines and Boilers, Pumps, etc.
MUNRO Chaffcutters.
BLAKE’S
for Every Possible Service.
BOILER FEED POMPS.
LIGHT SERVICE POMPS.
TRIPLEX BELT-DRIVEN POMPS.
PISTON PATTERN BELT-DRIVEN POMPS.
CENTRIFOGAL POMPS.
Large Stocks carried by tbe Sole Agents—
Write for Catalogue and Prices,
H. P. GREGORY <& CO.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
NOIdHVHUaA'IOM
oiaio3l3
Manufacturers of the Highest
Class of Electrical machinery
of any pattern, Write for
Quotations to Sole Agents.
Warburton, Franki, Ltd.
307-309 KENT STREET. SYDNEY.
M
'isfea
SHEEP
SHEARING
MACHINE
DANGAR GEDYE
SYDNEY
Australian
Harvesters, Drills, Ploughs,
Farm Implements.
Cultivators, Chaffcutters, Harrows, Saw Benches, etc.
Australian Farm
For Chaffcutting, Pumping, Sawing
Manufactured by HUGH V. McKAY, Sunshine Harvester Works , Sunshine.
Branches: Stanley St., South Brisbane; 27 George St. West, Sydney ; 102 Spencer St., Melbourne ; 56 North Terrace, Adelaide.
“ Sunshine Farm Implements,” 48 pages, handsomely illustrated, is worth having. Sent post free on request. Write for it.
BRITISH LABOR. BRITISH GOODS. BRITISH CAPITAL.
■'
E
EDINBURGH
Dynamos, Motors, Peebles Lacour
Patent Motor Converters, Alternators.
JOHNSON & PHILLIPS
LONDON
ADDRESS ENQUIRIES*-
Transformers, Arc Lamps,
Switchgear, Cables, etc.
PROMPT ATTENTION.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
GORDON FAINE LTD.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
London Bank Chambers, Brisbane.
