

the Whisky of Sterling Value
•9
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Minins' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
: AUCT.ONEERS FOR M ACm7nERV, etc. Saies ducted in a,I parts of New Soot,. Waies. New and Second-hand Piants a,ways avaifab...
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECUR
. ".V -J-X'- .y . •'•'j
XSHAVOT
M-5-W- MOINT DE PIETE D
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
And at
STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
HOBART.
MRS
[adley’s Orient fjotel.
PICHARDSON’S
Wine 8 Spirit
Stores,
68 Market St.,
SYDNEY.
158 Russell St.,
MELBOURNE.
I*
%
Bottle, Case or Gallon at Wholesale Price. [2
Hulton’d
Pitvco^lc"
HomdA Bacorv
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
L
U
HANSENS
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
c
The Best for Rough Roads.
The impregnated rubber-cord foundation of these tyres enables
them to resist moisture, strain and friction. Catalogue free.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER GO., Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne.
BEER
id Roofing suits
the Australian Bungalow
See how well it looks—think of the freight saved—think of the heat-resisting
qualities of the asbestos coating—think of the labor saved in laying think of
the fact that White Malthoid won’t crack, nor peel off, nor blow off in a/
storm —then you’ll use it. Send for Samples and Booklets.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO., Challls House, Sydney.
D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager. Agents Everywhere.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE 4 CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U°
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T °
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
QUEEN OF STATES
Bacon a| y*jl^Hs
Telegraphic Address-BACON, Murarrie, Queensland
HELIDON SPA
Three reasons why HELIDON SPA triumphs as a Perfect Table Water:
Ist—Rapid absorption. 2nd—Rapid circulation. 3rd—Rapid elimination.
STARKEYS LTD., Agents.
Phillip St., Sydney, and Red fern
The Bulletin
Vol. 35.—N0. 1804.]
[Thursday, September 10, 1914.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


“HOCH DER RAISER!”
“Myself und Gott” is a clever set of thirteen verses, satirising' the well-known egotistical opinion
the Kaiser has of his special mission on earth, his Divine Right as King, and his ultimate destiny.
Although the verses were written 17 years ago they are still applicable to-day, as they portray, with
uncanny accuracy, the very essence of the Kaiser’s character as we know it. There are 13 spirited
illustrations, which render the little book a memento worth keeping.
Pictorial Wrapper in Two Colors. PRICE 1/-, POSTED 1/1.
GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROPTY LTD.; 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“Rosalie and Other Verses,” by “Batcher” (J.
Burgess), Rosalie. “Is a charming ppem, a loye story
full of purity and sweetness.” —Frances Levvy, Band
of Mekcy and Humane Journal, Sydney. “Done in
excellent style.”—The National Advocate. Bathurst.
Other verses equally recommended. £l, 10s. and ss.
offered for three best simple accounts of Sweet Rosa-
lie, sent by Ist Nov., 1914, to Miss G. Burgess, P. 0.,
Capertee, N.S.W., who will supply book in Common-
wealth, 2s. 6d. post free. Agents wanted.*
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
For Coughs! Colds! Influenza! LET THE BUYER BEWARE!
JUj
\\M-I
Auenuuiw
*MO PIEASMtt
QWm»OD*
MEDICAL
MKTMtrX\C
ftHOOVAWIOWE
ON
POST FREE ON RECEIPT
OF STAMPS,
1/6
The large sale for “EUMENTHOL JU-
JUBES” has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of men-
thol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure and get
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES. You
may be asked to buy other jujubes, and be
told they are “just as good” as Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes. This proves that these
imitations and substitutes have no reputa-
tion of their own, and can only be sold on the
good repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS,
or from the Manufacturers—
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY, f 2
The Red Page
What Determines Sex?
This supremely interesting question comes
in for treatment in two recent works upon
the subject that mustn’t be mentioned. The
books are: Sex, by Prof. Geddes and Prof. J.
Arthur Thompson (“Home University
Library, Williams and Norgate, Is.), and
Heredity and Sex, by Prof. T. H. Morgan
(Columbia University Press, $1.75). The
first is a concise summary of the whole
subject _by world-famous specialists; the
second is severely technical.
One looks in vain in the former volume
for any new light on this difficult question.
The authors find themselves unable to
advance beyond their view expressed in The
Evolution of Sex in 1889. They hold that
there is no sex-determinant or factor at all,
in the morphological or in the Mendelian
sense, but that what settles the sex is an
initial difference in the rate of rhythm of
metabolism.
“According to this view, the deep con-
stitutional difference between the male and
the female organism, which makes the one
a sperm-producer and the other an egg-pro-
dueer, is due to an initial difference in the
balance of chemical changes....A young
germ-cell has, metaphorically, an alternative
between two different, but equallv viable,
lines of life—the male and the female.” It
is acted upon by influences. One class of influ-
ences, which favor a preponderance of
anabolic processes, tend to the increase of
female-producing eggs : influences that operate
in the opposite direction favor the in-
crease of male-producing eggs. “The sex-
difference is but one expression of a funda-
mental alternative in variation, to be seen
throughout the world of life.” That’s all.
But the problem is less cursorily ap-
proached in Heredity and Sex; find the
conclusions reached through a maze of tech-
nicalities and diagrams, embodying the results
of the latest research, point to definite-
ness. When the sperm has entered the egg,
in fertilisation, the two fuse. The walls of
the combined nuclei dissolve away and the
chromosomes appear. (Chromosomes are
filaments that are contained in the nucleus
of every cell in the body of animals and
plants. The egg is also a cell, and in its
earlier stages contains the same number of
chromosomes as in the other cells of the
body; but after two peculiar divisions that
take place at maturation the number of the
chromosomes is reduced to half. In the forma-
tion of the spermatozoa a process takes place
almost identical with the process by which
the chromosomes of the egg cell are halved
in number. Thus a spermatozoon with but
half its normal number of chromosomes
enters an egg containing but half its normal
number of chromosomes.) When the chromo-
somes appear in the fused cell, half of these
are derived from the father through the
nucleus of the sperm, and half from the
mother through the egg nucleus. If we
count the paternal chromosomes, there are
half as many of them as there are chromo-
somes in each cell of the body of the father.
By combination, egg and sperm-nucleus
bring up the number to that characteristic of
the species. But —an important but —this
statement is not always true, and on this
little fact, that it is not quite true, hangs
the whole story of sex-determination.
It has been discovered in the case of the
cells of a male inject that one chromosome
is larger than the others. This peculiarity
obtains in all the cells in that insect’s body.
There are 12 ordinary chromosomes and one
much larger. When the cell reduces the
number of its chromosomes the 12 unite in
pairs, so that there are six double chromo-
somes ; but the thirteenth, the large one, has
no mate. The reduced number of chromo-
somes in the male is seven —the seventh is
the sex chromosome —the long-sought-for key
to the mystery of sex-determination.
Two divisions now follow in rapid succes-
sion. In the first division each chromosome
divides —seven go to one pole and seven to
the other, thus producing two cells, each
gontaining the (divided) sex chromosome.
Immediately another division takes place in
each of these two cells. Each of the six
ordinary chromosomes divides, but the large
sex chromosome does not divide, and, lagging
behind the- others, passes to one end of the
cell. There are therefore left four cells, which
become spermatozoa, two with six chromo-
somes and two with seven. The ones con-
taining the seven chromosomes are the
female-producing spermatozoa, the ones with
six chromosomes (lacking the sex chromo-
somes) are the male-producing spermatozoa.
These two classes of spermatozoa are present
in equal numbers.
In the female body of this insect there
are 14 chromosomes in every cell. Of these,
12 are ordinary chromosomes, and two,
larger than the rest, are the sex chromo-
somes. When the. fusing stage comes, all of
the chromosomes unite in pairs, including
the sex chromosomes. The result is that
every egg possesses seven chromosomes. The
sex chromosome is present in every
female cell. All eggs are alike. There
is only one kind of egg, but there are
two kinds of sperm. Any egg that is fertil-
ised by a sperm carrying six chromosomes
(with the sex chromosome lacking) pro-
duces an individual with 13 chromosomes.
This individual is a male. Any egg that is
fertilised by a sperm carrying seven chromo-
somes (bearing the sex chromosome) pro-
duces an individual with 14 chromosomes.
This individual is a female.
J*
Other experiments show that the theory
is not dependent on a difference in size of
the chromosomes. The sex chromosomes
must carry a host of factors other than those
that determine sex. Consequently it is not
surprising that in many species the sex
chromosomes appear equal or nearly equal in
size. It was merely a bit of luck that there
was found in certain species a difference in
size or an unpaired sex chromosome. And
the evidence points to the possibility that
sex and the mechanism of Mendelian heredity
are intimately connected. The final conclu-
sion is that sex is regulated by an internal
mechanism, and that the mechanism appears
to be the same mechanism that regulates the
distribution of certain characters that follow
Mendel’s law of inheritance. Whether a
female or a male is produced depends solely
upon whether the female egg is impregnated
by a spermatozoon bearing the extra sex
chromosome or not.
But the fact of sex-linked inheritance, in
which certain defects are inherited solely
by the males or the females of the animal
race and mankind, implies that the sex
chromosome must contain that character —
some material particle that is called a factor.
There may be hundreds of such materials
present in the sex chromosomes that are
essential for the development of sex-linked
characters in the organism. The sex chromo-
somes must contain, therefore, a large
amount of material that has nothing to do
with sex determination. Yet sex. like any
other character, is due to some factor con-
tained in these chromosomes. It is a differ-
ential factor of such a kind that when present
in duplex, as when both sex chromo-
somes are present, it turns the scale so that
a female is produced—when present in sim-
plex, the result is to produce a male. It is
not the sex chromosomes as a whole that
determine sex, but only a part of these
chromosomes.
Jt
The author brings evidence to make pro-
bable the view that the mechanism for sex-
determination in man is like that of other
animals. But how is it that if there are
the same number of male-producing as
female-producing spermatozoa, the propor-
tion of human males born is, on the average,
larger than that of females? He suggests
the possibility of a greater speed for the
male-producing spermatozoa, enabling it to
reach the egg first in a slight majority of
cases. It gets quicker off the mark, as it
were. And if from any cause, such as disease
or alcoholism, one class of sperm is more
affected than the other, a disturbance in the
sex ratio would be expected. External con-
ditions, however, it is evident, cannot deter-
mine sex. The causes that effect the sex
ratio, even if discovered, would throw no
light on the causes that determine sex.
Curiously, the number of chromosomes in
man has long been in doubt; but the latest
and most reliable evidence points to the
extreme likelihood that in the human male
cell there are 47 chromosomes, of which 46
unite to give 23 double chromosomes, leaving
one —the sex chromosome —without a mate.
In determining the number of chromosomes
in the female, extreme difficulty was experi-
enced. The probability is that the female
cell contains 48 chromosomes. Another in-
stance of the inferiority of the male. Every
cell in Mrs. Pankhurst’s body has one more
chromosome than any cell in any male can
ever hope to possess.
“If these observations are confirmed, they
show that in man, as in so many other ani-
mals, an internal mechanism exists by which
sex is determined. It is futile then to search
for environmental changes that might deter-
mine sex. At best the environment may
slightly disturb the regular working out of
the two possible combinations that give male
and female. Such disturbances may affect
the sex ratio but have nothing to do with sex
determination.”
•
Not for the writing but for the subject
will be read the diffuse and rambling remin-
iscences of Gilbert, Sullivan and D’Oyly
Carte, by Frangois Oellier and Cunning-
ham Bridgeman (Pitman, per Dymock’s
Library). The accounts of the triumvirate
that introduced and organised the production
of the new school of English comic opera
have great interest- to old playgoers, while
the lists of casts and the many photographs
of Savoy favorites include many a name
since famous on the Australian stage. The
narrative is full of behind-the-scenes infor-
mation. For instance,* we learn why Utopia,
Limited, a popular and artistic success, was
never revived. “King Paramount’s playful
parody of the English Court caused grave
displeasure in high places, so that to repeat
the offence would be beyond the bounds of
loyalty, wise policy or good taste, even though
in later days the subject might not be re-
ceived in the same serious, grey light that
dimmed the glories of Utopia 20 years ago.
The evil was found in a too faithful but
highly-colored representation of Princes and
Princesses, nobjemen and statesmen, house-
hold officials anid others, modelled, as it were,
from real life at St. James’s. In the belief
that such scenes excited ridicule, Gilbert’s
fantasy was taken as an affront, and so deeply
resented that no member of the English
Court was known to pay a second visit to
Utopia.’’ But the attitude of grovel that the
authors assume to the triumvirate and all
their works is sickening. A great oppor-
tunity placed in the wrong hands.
The University of Sydney: Its History
and Progress Illustrated, by Robert A. Dal-
len (Angus and Robertson; 3s. 6d.), gives a
readable account of our University since its
commencement in 1852. Its chief feature,
however, is the large number of excellent
photographs of the buildings and details,
enabling'the reader to visualise the immense
range of educational activities the institu-
tion already covers. The photographs, while
informative, are singularly lacking in artistic
composition—the sort of photographs that
a commercial firm thinks good enough for
its advertising matter.
Some Novcis
Strindberg seems to have made his varied
matrimonial experiences pay—in copy.' Fair
Haven and Foul Strand (Laurie) contains
one story that is transparently an account
of one of his marriages. Apparently it was
the marriage following the one that formed
the basis of 1 'he Confession of a Fool; and
the novel ends with his separation from his
wife and child in order to go to Paris. The
continuation of the story is told in The
Inferno. Strindberg’s persecution mania
appears frequently throughout this grim
story of ill-sorted personalities manacled
together in marriage; yet even in his worst
experiences he got a sort of consolation out
of his troubles by the thought that they
would furnish material for new novels. It
is evident that Strindberg was not the kind
of person to be married —also not the kind
of person to remain unmarried. He carried
his unhappiness about with him, and from
his unhappiness wrote the plays and novels
that made him famous. The stories in Fair
Haven and Foitl Strand are brilliant ex-
amples of a psychology that probes deep to
the bone.
Dew and Mildew, Semi-Detached Stories
from Karabad, India, by Percival Chris-
topher Wren (Longmans, Green, per
Dymock’s Library), is a strangely interesting
book. The author knows Ipdia, as Kipling
knew India; he writes with irresponsible
humor and an almost cheeky grimness of the
minutiae of Indian and English life; he has
impressive and dramatic stories to tell; and
his command of the eerie is indisputable.
The various stories of “Sudden Death
Lodge,” the curse of the original owner of
the ground, and the working out of the curse
upon the successive inhabitants of the bunga-
low, are narrated with something of the
cheerful humor of the author of The
Ingoldsby Legends, without spoiling their
dramatic effectiveness. The catalogue begins
with Mullen, who had been sent into the
jungle for three years, alone, and would have
gone mad but for his gramophone. The
records of the machine had been lost in the
Indus River, but one night when, to save his
reason, he opened the gramophone, intending
to amuse himself by watching the revolving
table of the machine silently go round, he
discovered one record. It was a song sung
by a woman’s beautiful voice. He was
saved. He dined with it on the table, and,
when he had finished, asked Her if she would
favor him with a song in the drawing-room.
The drawing-room was a bare, mud-floored,
wasps-nested, white-ant-riddled verandah;
but he did his best with it. And then She
sang to him in the moonlight and he broke
down and cried. “Next day he shaved,
dressed as though he were still at Trinity,
and then went down and said ‘Good morning’
to Her, and begged tier to favor him with a
song. She did. Then he put all his
whisky bottles in a row and practised at
them with his light rifle till all were
smashed.... After breakfast he refrained
from smoking, lest the smoke trouble Her
throat and injure Her voice.” This delight-
ful story is merely the prelude to the real
story that happened in Sudden Death Lodge,
where, of course, the gramophone was
knocked over and the record smashed.
Mullen naturally died of heart-failure. The
author thus riotously wastes the material
that would have kept Kipling busy for a
decade.
Jt
Whoever W. Dane Bank is, he has not
forgotten his Arnold Bennett. James is the
study of another “Card,” this time from
Ganton, where the hats come from. James
is a youth who intends to get on. He is a
delightful egoist, who manages his mother,
his sister, his sister’s love-affair, and his
fiancee by sheer insistence on having his own
way. He is a somewhat likeable character
—-when things are going as he wants them.
He begins wmrk in a Ganton hat factory,
but soon finds that wealth is not won easily
when working for other people. He there-
upon starts in pursuit of fortune with a
hair-restorer. Soon the business grows too
big for Ganton. In London he rapidly
pushes “Superbo” into the forefront of the
hair-restorer business; and then finds that
the money he is making is nothing to the
wealth he could acquire by that mysterious
thing called finance. Therefore he becomes
a financier and an M.P. An inventor brings
him proofs of his discovery of a process for
making cheap artificial rubber; ands with
these in his hand he starts operations on the
rubber share-market. But he over-reaches
himself, and finds himself committed to vast
liabilities. The ring of rubber operators who
have him in their power meet at his office
to pick their victim’s bones. Then James
produces his artificial rubber. Unfortunately
his inventor and his invention are bogus, and
James sees himself ruined. His counter-
stroke is masterly. He has been engaged to
a nice girl, but has kept putting his marriage
off till the girl herself has wearied of him.
James sees there is only one way to secure
himself. He has to throw’ over the nice girl
and immediately marry the daughter of his
chief enemy. Without hesitation he arranges
for the special license, rings up the daugh-
ter of his oppressor, and marries her.
The story is well written. The Arnold
Bennett hero is depicted in the Arnold
Bennett manner. But the author is not
Arnold Bennett. His work just misses that
slickness tha’.' has made the immense popu-
larity of Bennett. Yet the scene where James
is cornered by his rivals is brilliantly written.
Edward Dyson Complains
This page, in criticising Spat’s Fact’ry,
remarked that it raised the question
whether there can be too much of a good
thing; and, after praising Fact’ry ’Ands,
it continued —•
Yet to the reader already sated with Dyson’s
humor and Dyson's slang, this new volume has an
air of staleness. The audacity of that first attempt
carried Fact’ry ’Ands to popularity; we have grown
accustomed to that audacity, and no longer it excites
us. The fault is probably due, not to Dyson, but
to this page. Since the publication of the earlier
book this page has gone bald on the top of its
head, it grows tomatoes in its suburban backyard,
it carries the meat home in a string bag, and it
never, never goes out without its goloshes.
Whereupon Edward Dyson becomes peev-
ish :—•
If I were running a paper I would include a
column entitled “Answers to Editors.” In the absence
of such a column in The Bulletin I don’t expect
to see this printed, it being the ladylike privilege
of critics to scratch without being slapped back. I
wish to point out, however, that the Fact’ry ’Ands
yarns your Bed Page boy finds “stale” in Spat’s
Fact’ry are, with one or two exceptions, the very
stories the Bed Page praised so warmly in the
original volume. If they have gone stale it is
with keeping, a misfortune literature would appear
to share with eggs. Fact’ry ’And stories are not
being written now. I have written perhaps two
in three years. The last of these I sent to The
Bulletin, with the result that the Editor
wrote, complimenting me on it, and ask-
ing with some urgency for morel Apparently, then,
there are in The B. office two very contrary opinions
regarding these stories. It is my bad luck to have
the unfavorable, and, I hope, the inferior, one
printed. But not infrequently it is the misfortune of
Bulletin writers to find their books ignored by other
papers, because they contain Bulletin stuff, and con-
temptuously treated by the Bed Page boy because
he is personally fatigued by the damnable reiteration
of the matter.
So experienced a writer as Edward Dyson
cannot surely be unaware that an editor
may want a certain class of stories for occa-
sional -serial publication, and yet find those
same stories, when brought together within
the compass of a book, monotonous. The
reading public may welcome an occasional
Fact’ry ’And yarn in The Buixetin, and
yet grow weary over a succession of the
same stuff in a book. Dyson is right:
“There are in the office two very contrary
opinions regarding these stories” —the
Editor’s opinion of them as occasional serial
contributions, and the Red Page’s opinion
of them as the material for a book. But
Dyson further enlightens us, and incidentally
lifts a great weight from this page’s
shoulders. It turns out that, though this
page has gone bald and carries the meat
home in a string bag, that is not the reason
why it found an “air of staleness” in this
volume. Dyson confesses that he has been
reprinting certain stories from the original
edition of Fact’ry ’Ands, without any
acknowledgment, in Spat’s Fact’ry; that,
in fact, six out of the 13 stories are re-
printed from the earlier book. The air of
staleness that this critic found in the book,
the lack of variety of incident, is explained
by the fact that the stories are themselves
stale, the identical stories that did duty in
Fact’ry ’Ands, and were there praised for
their audacity. They were audacious, they
were new, in 1906.
_©
Opportune is Lieutenant R. Stupart’s
Hints to Young Officers (Angus and Robert-
son, Is.) on the art of command, mess eti-
quette, military courtesy, etc.
The Library Committee of the Common-
wealth Parliament publishes the first volume
of Historical Records of Australia, dealing
with the period 1788-1796, and comprising
the full texts of governors’ despatches to
and from England. It has been decided to
issue all the available records _in seven
distinct groups, maintaining a strict chrono-
logical order in each series. The other six
series are: Papers belonging to the general
administration; papers referring to settle-
ments in the different States; legal papers;
exploration papers; scientific papers; and
ecclesiastical, naval and military papers.
Fredk. Watson, whose grammar has happily
improved since his first publication, contri-
butes a preface, an introduction and an
elaborate commentary. He states that from
the earliest printed chronicles down to those
of modern times not one can be accepted as
a final authority. All exhibit errors, not
only in points of judgment and criticism,
but in points of fact. He finds “many grave
errors,” too, in the seven volumes of the
Historical Records of N.S.W. _ already
issued. The present volume occupies more
than SOO pages.


it
Z?
Anthony Horderns’for Furniture Satisfaction
MORRIS CHAIR, With Adjust-
able Bad,, Frame in Solid Oak or
J'mned .Maple. Strongly made. A
most comfortable chair. Upholstered
in
Pegamoid, £4/57-
Real Hide, £5/15/-
THE LEYJjAND bedroom suite,
Consisting' of a large, roomy, all-banging-space Wardrobe, fitted with best-quality bevel mirror door on
one side,”and pretty carved”panel on the other, large drawer underneath; handsome Toilet Table, with
bevel mirror 22in. x loin., and two drawers; Washstand with large cupboards and art tile back, and towel
rails attached- and two Chairs. Width of Wardrobe, 3ft. 6in. ; Toilet pair, 3ft. Gin. Finished in best
quality. In Fumed Oak or Maple, £l9/10/-
1)1 VAX EASY CHAIR, of now
design. Strongly made. I pliolslorod
in Alt Cretonne. Stuffed Kapok.
I*Bi
THE HENDON BEDROOM SUITE.
The Heildoil Bedroom Suite is made in Oak ov Fumed Maple. It comprises 3ft. bin.
AVAWMIOBE, fitted with large lievel-glass door, and large, roomy drawer underneath for hang-
ing space; 3ft. Ilalf-Cheval TOILET CHEST, fitted with large centre mirror, 24in. x 18m.,
and side reflectors; also three drawers; 3ft. WASHSTAND, fitted with double door pedestal
cupboard, rouge marble top, and double row of art tiles, also towel rails attached.
In Fumed Oak or Maple, £l5/10/-
BE WISE !
Buy
Everything
at
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
FAMOUS
LOW
PRICES*
THEY
SAVE
YOU
SOVS.
Jl
tp
M
W,
» s *
THE WENTWORTH BEDROOM SUITE,
Consisting of a 4ft. all-hanging-space Wardrobe, fitted with two bevel mirror doors each
4ft, x lft Sin and roomy drawer underneath ; also 1 seful Dressing Chest, 3ft. Sin. wide,
mounted on castors and fitted with bevel mirror; 26in. X 22in. ; Washstand fitted with double-
divided cupboards, 2 drawers and towel rails, rouge marble top and art tile bark. Me also
include two good-quality cane-seat Chairs with thiV Suite. Price, Best Quality,
In Fumed Oak or Queensland Maple, £3O/10/-
COMBINATION WARDROBE AND TOII ACT
TABLE, 4ft. wide, with bevelled mirror in door of wauuooe
and on toilet table.
Finished Walnut, £B/15/-
Fumed Maple, £l2/10/-
THE BUREAU WARDROBE lias been designed for men
folk who are particular with their clothing. It is wonderfully
spacious, and will meet the requirements of.the most fastidious
dresser. The t.op drawer is fitted with slide divisions tor
Shirts, Pyjamas, etc., and inside the two folding- doors are fom
sliding trays, to hold suits of clothing-; also three drawers for
collars, socks and tjes. The large bottom drawer is divided for
Hats, Boots. Height, 4ft. Sin.; width, 4ft. 2m.; depth, -ft.
In Picked Queensland Maple or Figured
Oak, £l4/10/-
Anthony Horderns’ Furniture is made at
Anthony Horderns’ Cabinet Works by the
highest-skilled white Australian labor, and
sets a standard for artistic excellence and
faithful construction.
\
1
1
1
i
1
33
rz
THE HARUAND BEDROOM SUITE,
Comprising sft. Hanging 'WARDROBE, 3ft. Gin. DRESSING TABLE, with three-quarter Cheval
Mirror; 3ft. Gin. rouge marble*top WASHSTAND, with new art tile back, and Oxidised
Towel Rails attached at either end ; and 2 C'ane-seated Chairs.
In Fumed Oak or Maple, £33/10/-
w
w r u
W
Hnnm,
L_
s
fisa
THE SEIAVYX 15EDROOM SUITE,
Comprising sft. ‘WARDROBE, with two hanging compartments ami Cupboards and Oraweis
3ft. oin. DRESSING- TABLE; 3ft. (Sin. rouge marble-top WASH STAND, with new ait n e >.
and Oxidised Towel Rails attached at either end ; and 2 Cane-seated Chairs.
In Fumed Oak or Maple, £3-4/10/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ui
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace ILm-poritim,
BricKneld Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


[ERRO Dealers Wanted.
—
Ferro Detachable
Boat Motor.
LVJi i
m
HERE is the latest and best detachable
or rowboat motor, built in the largest
and best equipped marine engine plant
in the world. You can attach it to any type
of boat—rowboat, canoe, skiff, dory or sailboat
—in one minute, and remove it again as quickly
without disfiguring the boat and without the use of
tools. Weighs a little over 50 pounds and will
drive a boat 7 to 10 miles per hour.
Bosch Magneto—Carburetter.
The same high-grade material and workmanship, the same
care in design and construction as used in the well-known
line of FERRO engines is used in this motor. It has
removable bearings, rudder, float-feed carburetter, and.
where desired, BOSCH High-Tension Reversible Water-
proof Magneto is supplied. This motor is the best-
selling proposition ever offered.
We also Build a Complete Line of Marine & Stationary Engines.
Write us to-day for agency proposition for your territory. Our fully-equipped
Export Department will help you make the agency profitable.
Correspondence in any language. Write To-day.
The Ferro Machine t Foundry Co.
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.S.A. CABLE: FERRO—CLEVELAND.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS
LOTION.
QUICKLY REMOVES
SKIN ERUPTIONS . . .
ENSURING A
CLEAR COMPLEXION
The slightest Rash, faintest
Spot, irrit'ble Pimples, dis-
figuring Blotches, obstinate
Eczema disappear by applying
SULPHOLINE
Which renders the skin spot-
less, soft, clear, supple, com-
fortable.
For 42 Years.
BOTTLES 1/- and 2/9.
SULPHOLIIME
—■ —— Has been the Remedy for
ERUPTIONS
PIMPLES
REDNESS
PSORIASIS
ROUGHNESS,
RASHES
ECZEMA
SCURF
ACNE
BLOTCHES
SPOTS
ROSEA
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists—
il. pepper & CO., LTD., Bedford Laboratories, LONDON, S.E., Eng ,
and can be obtained direct from them h(y post or from
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removes the effect of Sunscorch.
At night
and again
in the morning
your teeth ought to have that
thorough antiseptic cleansing
which is so readily provided
I by the use of
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auli Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
CUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS,
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRADE MARK
SPLENDIL 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra long range.
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/6. D.8.8.L. GUN, fitted with
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified steel barrels,
walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN EXCELLENT
KILLER. Holiday Price, £3/10/- D E.B.L. GUN, choke and modified steel
barrels. Government Tested. THE PARMER’S FRIEND. Special Price,
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 22 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice and
light. A verv accurate little weapon. THE YOUTH'S FAVORITE. Holiday
Price, 14/6. CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent ejector. Takes .22
long, .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best sellers. Holiday
Price, 18/6. Write for Our Catalogue.
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
Largest Importers of Arm 3 and Ammunition in the Commonwealth
242-4 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
When You Don’t Feel Well.
If you are not feeling well; if you are run down ;
out-of-sorts, have a sickly taste in your mouth,
a sallow skin, headache, no appetite and no
energy, you know there is something wrong with
your system, yet perhaps you hardly feel ill
enough to call in the Doctor. But certainly
something must be done to correct the sluggish-
ness of your liver and tone up your digestion,
and for this purpose you will find an excellent
remedy in
COCKL
ANTIBIHOUS
i m<
A REPUTATION OF OVER ICO YEARS.
Cockle’s Pills are of purely a vegetable character. They
act pleasantly and painlessly, giving a splendid tone to the
liver and digestive apparatus, and make you feel in the
pink of health. Prescribed
originally by a Doctor for
his patients, they have now
a world-wide sale.
“ Bobbie
Peeler.”
r
When Sir Robert Peel introduced the police
service in 1829 his name became a house-
hold word, for policemen have been called
“Bobbies” ever since. Similarly, when
Dr. Cockle introduced his Antibilious Pills
over a century ago, his name, too, became a
household word, for Cockle’s Pills are
to-day famous the whole world over.
COCKLE’S PILLS
of Chemists through-
out the H orld.
This Coupon Is Good
Prof. Beery's
Introductory
Course in
FREE!
!©*
VO
,0*
,**
v*V e
A* <&
?' c v*
*o*°' ...
\ <» p ;>"
\
s< a '
,t e "'
Bad Habits
Cured
By Beery System
Refusing to lead.
Running away when hal-
ter or bridle is removed.
Getting fast in the stall.
Pawing in the stable.
Pawing while hitched.
Crowding in the stall.
Fighting halteror bridle.
Tender bitted.
Pulling on one rein.
Lugging on the bit.
Lunging and plunging.
Refusing to stand.
Refusing to back.
Shying. Balking
Afraid of uutomobiles.
Afraid of robes.
Afraid of clothes on line.
Afrnid of cars.
Afraid of sound of a gun.
Afraid of band playing.
Afraid of steam engine.
Afraid of the touch of
shafts or harness.
Running away.
Kicking.
Biting. Striking.
Hard to shoe.
Bad to groom.
Breaking straps.
Refusing to hold back
while going down hill.
Scaring at hogs or dogs
along the road.
Tail switchers.
Lolling the tongue.
Jumping fences
Bad to hitch to buggy or
wagon.
To all men
owning horses ,
who answer this advertisement immedi'
ately, I will positively send my introductory
course in Horse Training and Colt Breaking
ABSOLUTELY FREE.
World’s Greatest System
ol Horsemanship
Twenty-five thousand FARMERS and horse-owners have
taken my regular course and found that it does the work.
Even if you have only one horse, it will pay you to master
my wonderful system. The Beery Course is the result of a
lifetime’s work as a tamer and trainer of horses. As one of
my students has said, “The horse has never been foaled
that Prof. Beery cannot handle.” My record proves it.
Master Any Horse
The Beery Course gives
you the priceless secrets of
a lifetime—enables you to
master any horse—to tell the
disposition of any horse at
sight—to add many dollars to
the value of every horse you
handle—and my students are
all good traders.
Break a Colt in
Double-Quick Time!
You can do it by my simple,
practical,humane system. There
is a lot of money in colt training.
Make $1,200 to $3,000
a Year
Many of my graduates are
making big money as profes-
sional horse trainers at home or
BEFORE TRAINING
AFTER
TRAIN-
ING
My Graduates Are
Doing Wonders
A. L. Dickinson, of Friendship,
N. Y., says: "lam working a pair of
horses that cl eaned out severa I men.
I got them for $llO, gave them a few
lessons, and have been offered $lOO
for the pair.” Fred Bowden, K. R.
No. 2, Keokuk, lowa writes: "It’s
worth many times its cost.” I
have many similar letters from
graduates all over the world.
traveling. I made a fortune trav-
eling and giving exhibitions. You
have the same opportunity.
Send the Coupon
and get the Introductory Course in
Horse Training FREE. This
special offer may never be re-
peated. Act now. Tell me about
your horse.
PROF. JESSE BEERY
Dept. 122, Pleasant Hill. Ohio, U.S.A. ,
ON TNE NOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.


Famished
Hair Cells
Hair-failure is due to starved roots and cells.
AH the legion of hair troubles vanish if you
strike at the root. It is the same in every ill
—you must go right to the heart of the trouble.
What the grey, languishing, dropping hairs
call for
Is an adequate food—a real nutriment.
ROWLAND’S MACASSAR OIL gives an
immediate new vitality to the feeble roots and
the “ feeding ” cells beneath them. It produces
a soft, silky sheen and texture; a full, luxuriant
growth, radiating a true natural haSx-health
Softly perfumed with Otto of Roses. Supplied
in Gold Tint for fair hair.
ROWLAND’S
Macassar Oil!
is sold by Stores, Chemists, and
ROWLANDS, 67, Hatton Garden,
London.
Avoid cheap imitations with the same
or similar name.
PREPAID TO YOUR PORT.
Ten Days’ Trial allowed. Direct from
Factory. Highest-grade British MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears, Flyer
or Brook's Saddles, etc.
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Tyres and accessories aft half usual prices.
Write at once, using sufficient postage,
for Free Art Catalogue and Special
Offer on sample machine. Agents wanted
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept A 282 LIVERPOOL,
AGENT for MEAD CYCLES—
VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade, Melbourne.
LARCE STOCKS ON HAND. ALL MODELS.
LETTERS COPIED WHILE WRITING
(in ink) by using your own Letter-paper
with this Book. You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing’ you
secure a perfect letter and a
perfect copy. There is no
sign of copying. 400 octavo Bin. x oin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/200 Book, size 10f} x
Bg, post free 4/6 ; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Bin. x sin., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper which
produces this result, free if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic, Leicester, England.
Zanetic goods obtainable from Sands & McDougall,
Ltd., Collins Street West, Melbourne, and Branches
at Adelaide and Perth.
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you’ll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
tin now. 1/6, posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
2] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always
Reliable
mmMwmEFmm
mi=»
Eley *4lO ‘Universal
11 III"*
B
m
u>
9
9
Eley
‘ Universal ’
A Light-Brown
Cartridge,
loaded with 3
drs.T.S. Black
Powder and
1J oz. of shot.
Eley
‘Fourlong’
A '4lO bore
2£ in. Indian
Red Gaslight
Cartridge,load-,
ed with Eley
(33 gr.) Smoke-
less Powder
and No. 6 or
shot.
Eley -38
Automatic
For Webley
& Scott or
Colt Auto-
matic Pistols.
Eley *3BO
Automatic
Hammerless
For Webley &
Scott or Colt
Automatic Pistols.
u
M I
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
Wholesale only:
ELEV BROS. L?. D LONDON
1 % I £2
nis
SptfNOTON’S
<**#**? <*
CAnU'AGZfrt
,RI SH MOSS
...
**'***’«»'
*ohh
»*cfrc£i
5».
The Cough Remedy for
Australian Homes.
Safe and Reliable,
flood for Old and
Young.
Try Bonnington’s for
Stubborn Colds and
Bronchitis, and you
will be well satisfied.
BEWARE OE
CHEAP SUBSTITUTES
DONNIN6TON 5" IRISH MOSS
Drunkenness is a Disease!
ITS no use asking: a drunkard to give up drink— he cannot ! Alcoholism is as much a disease as
Cancer and Consumption (it eats away the liver and weakens the heart and brain), ana needs scientihc
treatment to cure it. Golden Specific is the only sure means of banishing the evil. This treatment is
tasteless end odorless and can easily be given secretly at home. Guaranteed harmless. Cures some
cases in few days. Miss E. B ,of Christchurch; N.Z., writes ; “The improvement in the patient has
been most marked, and his health has in every way improved, for which we all thank: you.
FREE SAMPLE, book and testimonials sent on receipt of 2d. stamp. Write for same to-day.
Address in full to . . GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., Dept. B 2016 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
m
Can be Developed to Normal.
It matters not if you have been thin and scraggly for years, even if you
never were properly developed your measurements can lie increased to normal
and your figure nicely rounded out to pleasing, plump proportions. It is
done every day for others —why not you ?
Manager, Kalliere Co. Hekeia, N.Z.
Dear Sir.—l am well pleased with the results from using Flesh-
Food and the general improvement in my condition, for which
I thank you very much indeed, for my husband and I are both
well pleased.
From the very beginning I improved wonderfully—the giddiness that had bothered
me for years disappeared, as did the rheumatism from my legs. Both of these
troubles had caused me much severe suffering.
My limbs were thinnest, and they began to noticeably increase first of all, ending
in a nine-inch increase in my hip measurement. A general development now became
noticeable, and my chest and bust filled out.
I bad now gained all I needed—a full stone in weight. As I have lost neither
weight nor measurements since stopping the treatment, I consider the results per-
manent. Yours very truly, MRS. H. HODGES.
Flesh-Food is totally harmless in every respect. Its efficacy is beyond question, and its
use is no demand upon the subject's time. Many cases have gained up to six pounds a week,
and an increase in bust measurement up to eight and ten inches is possible. Flesh-Food offers
relief and development to the thousands of chronically thin women who have despaired of ever
possessing a presentable figure. It is a nerve and tissue food treatment that adds weight and
permanent development to attenuated women. Guarantee given in every case accepted.
Let us send
you a Free
Sample.
TRIAL SAMPLE FREE
We publish an interesting: book on the
subject of attenuation and development
and will send same and a Free Sample Treatment to you
upon receipt of a 2d. stamp to pay part postage. All
treated as strictly confidential.
FREE OF CHARGE
communications are
(1823)
FALXIERE ILESH-FOOI) CO., 1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
THE CAN-MAKING INDUSTRY!
SANITARY—SIMPLE
EFFECTIVE—RAPID.
The Entire Top Open.
anti
oQ
mi
ENTERPRISING PRESERVE BANNERS in every part of the world
have come to realise that the old, slow, unsanitary method of
manufacturing and sealing cans by hand with poisonous solders is ob-
solete.
That is why the MAX AMS SANITARY CANNING MACHINERY
is being used by the world’s leading canners. If you are using cans
lor packing preserves, fruits, vegetables, or in fact any food product, the
SANITARY, SOLDERLESS, HERMETICALLY SEALED CANS
made by these machines will save you time, money a.id labor.
No. 58 and No. 68 Automatic Double Seamers will seal can tops on
bodies ljin. high and 2in. in diameter up to 1 gallon and over. The
scope in the range of possible changes is instantly appreciated.
No adjusting or fussing, or mechanical skill required. Can be run
by boy or girl.
These machines are IJY NO MEANS confined to any PARTICULAR
CLASS of cans. The operation of these Seamers is SIMPLE. The
cans are automatically conveyed to the baseplate with the cover, and
INSTANTLY the CAN engages the rollers, making a CLEAN and tight
DOUBLE SEAM.
We Furnish Complete Outfit for Making These Cans.
For full particulars write to the
MAX AMS MACHINE CO.
MT. VERNON, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
OR THROUGH ANY EXPORT COMMISSION HOUSE.
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “I was a heavy smoker for 65 years,
but aitei taking your treatment for U days I
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. C, 29 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
IL
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring misses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
seud you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the rea.cli of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic,
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in _ Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 110 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Tame Bishop Speaks.
Bernard Shaw approves of the war. So does Mr.
H. D. Mclntosh. Mr. “Snowy” Baker has offered to
help the Australian Government to carry out its
duties. —Cable and tact.
It was the Judgment Day.
The awful words were said,
The trumpet tore the mists away
And woke the drowsy dead.
I saw the awful throne
And let my vision fall,
For I was badly clothed
And slop-made was my pall.
Then through the smoke and din,
Through all the trumpet blare,
Through all the craven sin
That waited penance there
I heard three voices rise:—-
“We do hereby agree
With New Jerusalem
And its fine Jasper Sea.”
“Who are these souls V” I said,
“Who make the welkin burst?
The heavens shake to their tread,
They all want to be first.”
“Peace,” said St. Peter, “they
Have leased the skies
They have begun this day
To advertise.
“That one is Bernard Shaw.
He writes. I think,
lie fought the last great war
With pen and ink.
The Armageddon won
By word of mouth.
He ravaged music-halls
From north to south.
“That’s Reginald—he fights
Vicariously in a ring,
And dear old Mclntosh delights
To loudly sing
The greatness of his most puissant name,
And all such cries—
For they, to keep above their little fame,
Must advertise.”
“Wait! We’ve a long list yet to show
Doc. Arthur’s here,
And Cocks (which we pronounce as ‘Coe")
And many a dear
Old politician of the spot-lime sort,
Irvine and Cook,
Kelly and Brace Smith (that excellent
old sport)
Talks like a book.
“One time a Judgment Day important was,
But not so now ;
Modern improvements ruined us because
We did allow
Buttinskis from the _world to cry their wares
And shout their lies.
They drown the organ, and despite our cares,
They advertise.”
N.s.w.
MARTIN LUTHER.
Outback Girls.
Though the red dust swirls and the hot haze
quivers,
Where the bleached bones lie by the long,
grey track.
In the homes ahead, by the cool, clear rivers,
Live the winsome girls of the Far Outback.
We have failed in town, and leave it, for-
giving . , , . ,
The false friends sneer and the victors
jest,
And our hearts pulse now with the thoughts
of living,
Till death, with the girls that we love the
best.
Joyous as captives when freed from durance,
O’er range and o’er plain and by river we
ride.
Thinking of letters that brought sweet assur-
ance
That we are still loved where the world
looms wide.
“Come back to the West,” the dear mandate
is ringing,
In the rhythm of hoof on the well-known
track,
And girths may be red, but each long stride
is bringing
Us nearer our girls in the Far Outback.
VICTORIA.
FRANK BELLMAN.
The Cutty Sark.
Where now the great steel castles lie
Along the Quayside., stem to stern,
There lav, in glowing days gone by,
A ship that shall no more return.
A graceful craft, a dainty craft —
A dancinsr daughter of the sea,
With flags that fluttered fore and aft —
She lent a glamor to the Quay.
She lured us on from other joys.
She called at noon and through the dark :
Her fame was great among the boys,
Her name it was the Cutty Sark.
To fight the pirates off there stood
A small brass cannon at her how;
Much more than merely lifeless wood —
A man-made thing—she seemed, I vow.
She seemed a rover born of old.
When seas were wider than to-day ;
And ships went questing, brave and bold,
Across the waves to far Cathay.
All this she seemed in truth to be —
A ship that was no common craft,
A dancing daughter of the sea —
With flags that fluttered fore and aft.
Last night, when stilled was all the noise,
There came this question in the dark —
But -where are now the Quayside boy&
And where is now the Cutty Sark?
JS.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Electric Light for Country Homes and Hotels
p
••
i
Independent of Town Supplies’ or Power Stations. The Lister-
Bruston Automatic Electric Lighting Plant, as illustrated,
complete, generates Electricity. The Plant is self-contained, and
thus, as a ten-
a n t's fixture
can be moved
from place to
place. May wo
talk with You
about your
Lighting? We
deliver the
Plant ready for
connecting with
your Lights.
AGENTS: N.S.W.—W. G. Watson & Co., Ltd., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney
Vic. —Sutherland & Ashman, Flinders Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND—Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd., Creek Street, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA Clutterbuck Bros., Adelaide.
Light That Country Home of Yours Electrically.
You can do it independently of town
supplies or power stations.
The LISTER-BRUSTON
Automatic Electric Lighting Plant
will flood every one of your rooms with
light. The Plant generates Electricity
automatically, and the Engine and
Dynamo start themselves as soon as the
lights are turned on.
The Plant is delivered ready for connect-
ing to your Lights. Ma\ we talk it over
with YOU in person or by Post?
■ I
IC*
AGENTS: N.S.W.—VV. G. WATSON & CO., LTD., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
VIC.—SUTHERLAND & ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—CLUTTERBUCK BROS., Adelaide.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book
§ US J. R ,?iM BLIGHTt FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
Insist on “Singleton s’ —refuse all substitutes.
CARBIDE
Ask for 1
swr*
‘PERNIX,”
• and see that
you get it. with
the trade mark
“PERNIX” on every Cask and Drum
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED,
62 Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Ajj. nts for Australia.
For Sugar-cane Cultivation.
•'
» **. 1 -i -W
-•
m
■/ . j
J
an
The “SUN QUEEN”
Straddle Cultivator.
Made in Australia and perfectly adapted to Queensland condi-
tions. Embodies all desirable adjustments. Light Draught.
Easily Managed. Comfortable Seat for Driver. Sturdily Built
to give Long Years of Service.
The suntop Disc Ploug'h.
Made in one-furrow and two-furrow sizes, with 2 8-inch Discs
for Deep'Ploughing in Sugar and Corn Country. Unequalled
for Strength and Adjustability.
Sunshine Petrol Engines
Start Instantly. Run Continuously. The Simplest and Best
Engine for Farm Conditions. Sizes made —3,5, 7 and 10 h.p.
Stationary or Portable.
“ SnnsHine Farm Implements,” 48 pages, is
worth Having. Posted g'ratis on request.
H. V. McKAY, Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine
Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
27 George Street West, Sydney.
102 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
56 North Terrace, Adelaide.
LET THE HOSE DO THE WORK
Now is tlio time to water your
garden regularly, and give it a
chance to withstand the hot days
that are to come.
Order a Length of
WATERSHED
Red Rubber
Garden Hose
and use it at once.
“Tis the Hose that
makes the Difference.”
“Watershed” is the best Garden
llose that can be procured. This
has been proved in actual test.
rw
ytnPH
:w
«r
Made in 60ft. coils, but cut to any length.
Mil. x 3-ply -/9 ft., or 30ft., complete with fittings 24/6
00ft., complete with fittings 45/9
•Jin. x 3-ply 1/- ft., or 30ft., complete with fittings 32/-
60ft.. complete with fittings 60/9
•Our new Summer Catalogue is now ready. Sent Post Free on request.
“Watershed” Hose is obtainable from all Leading Storekeepers throughout
Australia, or direct from the makers,
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
Australian Manufacturers of all Rubber Goods,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. Also Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
THE BEST FLOOR POLISH
Put up iii large flat tins, in paste form,
Shi-noleum is convenient, and there is no
waste. It saves time —being so easy to
apply, and is unusually durable.
Shi-noleum is quick in action, very econo-
mical. and pleases all who use it.
It brightens and preserves linoleum, oilcloth,
tan boots. Gladstone bags, leather satchels
and suit cases; and revives polished and
leather furniture.
Refuse imitations.
140
*
If not sold by your
grocer, send your name
and his to the PAGET
MANUFACTURING CO.,
LTD., 109 Regent Street,
Sydney, and a free
sample tin will be sent
you.
SAY!
This will Interest YOU
m ■ ■
:
This is a National Acme Screw Machine
which will increase your production 40 to 150 per cent,
It is the principle of “The Acme Way” that all the operations, whether three, or
eight, or more, must be clone AT ONTO TIME.
4 bars are operated on at one time.
All the Tools come into operation at
once.
There are 8 regular tool positions,
making possible 8 operations on the
piece. But this does not make it
harder to run.
This is the way the ACME performs eight, operations AT ONE TIME,. an<l to see
this machine at work you would think there was a regiment of Ei rimers inside it.
Either Single-Belt or Motor Drive.
You had better send at once to us for a most interesting BOOKLET, giving well-
illustrated details of what this machine can do. We cannot talk comfortably here, as
every word means real money. It will surprise and mortify you to think you have
been so long without an ACME SCREW MACHINE.
BENSON BROTHERS, LIMITED,
Sole Agents for Australasia,
Full Stocks of all Classes of Engineers’ Machine Tools.
51-53 Druitt Street,
SYDNEY.
60 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 35. No. 1804.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 1914.
Pjuck Gd.
THE SECURITY.
“But times is bad, my boy. What security have you got now?”
“Security! Why, I’ve got all the assets I bought with the money you lent me already.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TtfRMS TO SUB SORT BFRS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per Annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.:
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.- — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —• Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Hastings Street,
I'anconver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. IV. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets. San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; IV. E. Lenehan, 585
2‘th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
D-’~>dolph and Clark Streets, Chicago. U.S.A.
Lgypt.— lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Tlono Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
U'■ ag Kong.
Ceylon. —TP. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Rates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Tjord
Howe Islands, 10oz., id. : United Kingdom, All Sea
Ponte, 160 z., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — -otherwise: Boz., Id., BJoz.
ito lOoz.. 2nd.; lOoz. to 120 z., Bd.; elsewhere, )oz.,
Id., and id. each additional Zoz.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 1914.
THE EXCITING FINANCES OF
AUSTRALIA.
A full account is now available of the
imports and exports of the Commonwealth
for the first seven months of 1914. The
account is far from pleasant reading. All
the sane and lettered inhabitants of this
country who are out of gaol, save a few
who lead a very retired or remote life, are
aware that the biggest war in authentic his-
tory is in progress. How long it may last
no one knows, but the Anglo-French army,
which is steadily retreating on Paris, and
the French Government, which is shifting to
Bordeaux, probably regard it as a lengthy
business. How much it will cost no one
knows, but the bill will probably amount to
all the loose cash on earth. Australia, so
far. has paid very little money, has supplied
very few men, has lost no ships, and hasn’t
had a single city or town o¥ hamlet
destroyed. Yet Australia is already suffer-
ing considerably, and unless it makes haste
to get ready for emergencies, further trouble
is. Ahead. It can no longer sell raw ores and
concentrates or wool in Germany. There is
a great slump in the sale of similar products
in France and Belgium, because an enemy
holds part of the country, so that business
is suspended, while in the rest of the country
business is going slow by reason of the
absence of able-bodied men at the front.
Unless Australian materials can be used in
Australian factories, they are likely to be
more dead stock for quite a while to come.
Meanwhile, the greatest wool-producing
country on earth is likely to find a pair of
woollen pants both scarce and dear; and one
of the great mineral-producing countries on
earth is liable to realise that it is hard to
acquire the raw material for the manufac-
ture of a locomotive or a poker. No one
expects that the new loan will float every
second week in the old, gay, casual fashion,
for Europe has its own armies to finance, yet
this country has lately been depending on
new loans to a greater extent than it ever
did before. Even the renewal of the old
loan may soon be a matter of much difficulty
and expense.
* * * *
Here or hereabouts the question of the
seven months’ trade returns comes in. From
January 1 to July 31 the six federated States
imported goods to the value of £47,100,210,
find exported goods to the Name of
£43 087,839. In other words, they failed, by
a 1 rifle of £4,018,371, to pay for the goods
vhich thev imported, and they did this in
order that they might lead the comparatively
luxurious life of short hours, high wages,
good food and abundance of holidavs and
football. As for the seven months’ interest
—roughly estimated, in view of all the recent
borrowings, at £9,500.000 —upon old debts,
not one copper of it was liquidated out of
the country’s own resources. To the extent
of about £13,500.000—0r nearly £2.000,000
per month —Australia’s alleged prosperity this
year has depended on the acquisition of new
loans and on the country’s luck in the
renewal of old loans. If a serious difficulty
arises—and it is hard to see how it can
avoid arising, unless the war, by some amaz-
ing accident, collapses next week —the bottom
must fall out of our shocking and opti-
mistic finance. Probably the bottom would
have fallen out of it in any case, for it had
apparently approached breaking.point. July
was the worst month of the series. In July
foreign imports exceeded exports by almost
exactly £2,500,000. To put it another way,
the countrv. during July, was reiving, at the
rate of £30.000.000 per annum, on foreign
loans to pay for its hats and boots and frills
and bloater paste and cricket; and to the
extent of about £16,000,000 per annum
(making £40,000,000 per annum in all) to
pay interest on its old debts. For the
renewal of its old debts (nearly £17,000,000
of them fall due next year) it trusted to
Coiien and Providence. If the present
unpleasantness spreads into 1915 and 1916
and 1917, and Cotten is kept busy sub-
scribing to European loans in order to drive
the enemy off his own doorstep, there will
be strange happenings. There is no reason
to expect that the Commonwealth will
become an actual theatre of war. But be-
cause it relies more than any other country
in the world on foreign imports and foreign
money-lenders it may, unless a. great refor-
mation sets in, become more impoverished
than Brussels and almost as desolate as
Louvain. It is a very, very mad institution.
Any institution which, during one pleasant
July, went into debt to the extent of
£2,500,000 to keep its own people out of
employment and to keep population out of
the country is mad. In other words, the
brilliant loan-floaters and fiscal-sinkers
pawned posterity to that extent inside 31
days in order to buy foreign fluff and tinned
fish so that its own citizens should not have
the job and wages of making these goods.
If Australia is to keep its place among
the honest and solvent and respectable
nations of the world it is necessary that it
should get to work. Being outside the
sphere of hostilities its business doesn’t lie
wholly in flag-flapping and the singing of
national anthems. The first essential is to
raise the tariff so that imports will fall to a
point at which exports can not only pay
for them, but also pay the interest ,on all
outside liabilities. If there is a margin with
which to meet some of the foreign loans
which are falling due, so much the better.
Immigration and local industries should be
encouraged as they were never encouraged
before, in order that this section of the
Empire may not disgrace the other members
of the British brotherhood by being found
naked and ashamed and bankrupt and unable
to pay for a hair-cut should, its assistance
be really required. The habit of clamoring
at the door of the hard-pressed British
financier, and telling him that unless he
takes up the loan or renews the loan he
won’t get his interest, should be abandoned.
Something strenuous should be done out of
revenue in the matter of essential public
works. The people who live in the suburbs
of Paris are burning their homes and retiring
into the country to clear the ground for
defence purposes. No one has yet asked
anybody to burn Toorak or St. Kilda or
Stratlifield because the enemy is in sight, so
this country hasn’t experienced the horrors
of strife yet. In our time of peace, and com-
parative retirement the people might make
an effort, by means of their own resources,
to carry the Port Amrusta-Oodnadatta rail-
way right through to Darwin, and to extend
the' Townsville-Cloncurry line across the
continent, in order to put a very large sec-
tion of the British Empire in a better state
of defence. Then if. later on, it is necessary
to burn Sydney and Adelaide, there will be
more places to retire upon.
The election consisted largely of a dust of
recrimination about what somebody had said
in the past and what somebodv had neg-
lected to do in the dim remote. The Fisher
party was so far ahead of the awful Cook
party that it did threaten to promote Aus-
tralian industries, but it didn’t threaten very
Imrd. The fact that this is the time above
all others to hustle like Beelzerur and all
his relations in the interests of the future
was generally ignored. The Btttxetin has
collected several hundred unconvincing nar-
ratives about the professed discrepancy
between what Htgo,s once said at Cow Fat
and what Hughes was said to have said
twice at Cowpasture. But the number of
pronouncements as to the need to put our
native land on a basis of financial and indus-
trial independence can be counted on the big
toe of one hand.
[.Tames Edmond, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
INCOMPREHENSIBLE DOCUMENTS
FOUND ON THE OFFICE TABLE.
The Bulletin has before it certain docu-
ments which are calculated to divert atten-
tion even from the war. They constitute a
problem which, if it were posted on the
gates of Paris, would cause the bitterest
German to take the track for home, and flee
back to the arms of Gretciien. To put the
matter shortly, it is an “Amended Notice
for Payment of Land Tax.” An uninformed
person would take it for an amended laby-
rinth. In the matter of throwing darkness
on the simple fact that the Australian Gov-
ernment wants money it may be called a
masterpiece. Nothing like it is in the
Vatican or among the ruins of Memphis.
* * * *
There are three papers pinned together in
the north-west corner, which is the point at
which the Kaiser’s army attempted its 'great
turning movement. The first one .doesn’t
fly at its subject like a German soldier rush-
ing to burn a Belgian cathedral. It breaks
the news gently by stating that the thing
is “Form No. 7 E. Register No. so-and-so,”
and a lot more verbiage. It also says “Take
Notice” and sundry other dark sayings.
Having thus cleared the ground and arrested
attention the author sets forth that “The
unimproved taxable value as per orig. assmt.
of 19/4/TB, amended on account of check
valuation and inclusion of share interest in
companies” is so much. Then he says “Add”
so much, and he adds the sum, but doesn’t
say why. The tax “calculated at the rate of
one penny and ten-thousand-one-hundred-and
twenty-one thirty-thousandths-of-a-penny in
the £” is so much. (The recipient says he
would just as soon pay lid. in the £ and be
done with it.) There is a “Deduction to
Secondary Taxpayer” (whoever he may
be) “under Section 43.” It is specially
mentioned that no “Deduction to Lessee
under Section 27” can be allowed. All the
deductions, including the amount not
deducted under Section 27, are added up.
Then there is a further allowance for a sum
paid on account, and for something
described as “t’fer” (presumably “trans-
fer,” but it may be “tiffin”) “from 10-11.”
The recipient of the warrant, though a fairly
accurate business man, admits that he
hasn’t the faintest recollection of trans-
ferring anything “from 10-11” and wouldn’t
know how to do it if he tried. He would
sooner go fishing. At all events, a certain
quantity of money is arrived at which
doesn’t seem exorbitant, and the protocol is
signed by an official of great tonnage and
poundage and circumference, whose name
looks like “Twins” or “Toodles.” It is
initialled by one Bulgarian and a Servian,
so far as can be guessed, and there are sev-
eral lines of thunder to wind up with about
“fine” and “postage,” and concerning some-
body called the “Asst. Regr.,” and the num-
ber of the receipt-book, and similar matters
which make the earth tip up on its orbit.
All this appears on transparent paper, and
as there is much printing in heavy black
type on the back, great difficulty is experi-
enced in deciphering the signature of
“Toodles, Deputy Federal Commissioner.”
The second document is of little account.
It is autographed by the same Toodles and
initialled by a Montenegrin, or somebody of
the sort, and its main purport is that the
first document is not to be scoffed at, but is
to be considered seriously. Anybody who
scoffs at the first document will be regarded
as a person who has taken a dog into church.
The final volume of the series is all in
writing, and The Bulletin’s least legible
poet writes better even when it is the morn-
ing after the night before, and the night
before has been strenuous with the poet.
Many a bard has been carried home in a
more decipherable condition. A photograph
of the matter appears herewith: —
'unis is canea
“Alteration Sheet,”
and the opinion of
the recipient i s
that there is much
room for alteration,
and that if he
could sheet the un-
intelligibleness. of
the whole business
home to somebody
he would speak to
that person with
severity. The tenor
of the appeal is
that the taxpayer
owns shares in cer-
ta i n companies ;
that these com-
panies are sus-
pected of owning
land ; and that if a
man holds 1000
fully-paid ordinary
shares in a com-
pany of 217,394
shares, of which
some are prefer-
ence, while the rest
are not, he owns a
certain proportion
of the land, and is
to be assessed ac-
cordingly. Some
taxpayers have a
desire to check their
assessments, and
rush round to the
offices of the vari-
ous companies
they are interested
in to find out how
much of the earth each corporation
really does own. Then the Wfeary
manager throws his belltopper into the
waste-paper basket, and states that, so
far as he knows, after making due
allowance for the bit of soil that was sold
yesterday and the bit that was bought
to-day, the aggregate ligure is there or there-
abouts, but that the Department makes it
something different. He also says that this
is the 400th application of the same sort.
A wise taxpayer allows the whole mystery
to slide, and pays up without any
at verification. The charge isn’t exorbitant.
The real subject of complaint is that the
handwriting is awful in places; that the
signature of the tremendous official might
be better; that the Pole or Cossack who does
the initialling seems to initial in his own
strange language; and that the office sup-
plies a hopeless whirlwind of elucidation as
to how it arrives at. the total. This elucida-
tion beguiles the taxpayer into trying to add
up the figures for himself, and after that his
natural end is the lunatic asylum. And
the asylums are already overcrowded.
[James Edmond, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Broken Hill.
Broken Hill holds up its reputation of
being the most waspish little place in Aus-
tralia. It has no friends: it stings Laborite
and anti-Laborite impartially. Just at
present, though if returns a bunch of Labor
members, it is busy embarrassing the N.S.W.
Labor Government. The trouble started
within about 48 hours of the war, when the
big mining companies’ selling contracts were
suddenly suspended, tinder ordinary circum-
stances the employers might have gone to a
little trouble to keep the wheels moving and
the mouths fed, but employers and employees
have long since ceased, to have any considera-
tion for one another in that district. The
spirit of the place may be judged by the
curious fact that, when a fatal accident hap-
pens in a mine, the whole business is held up
for 24 hours. The co. may not have been
to blame for that accident, but it probably
will be for some other accident, so the men
do their little bit of punishment on general
principles and in advance. A week had not
passed after the firing of the first shot before
there was a howl from the field for relief
work and relief money. The former was
promised and the latter was sent. In fact, the
Government has so far spent more in relief
in Broken Hill than in Sydney, 20 times its
size, notwithstanding that till the time of
the shut down wages had been higher there
than in probably any other centre in Aus-
tralia. The last big mining co.’s report to
issue showed that miners had averaged on one
class of work over £1 a day, and on the other
class over 17s. But the Broken Hill wasp was
still unsatisfied. Vaguely hissing vengeance
on its own uabor Government, it moved 5000
strong to the Town Hall, where the relief
committee was sitting; and all that the
relief committee could think of to stay the
riot was to promise more relief. “We have
only done this to show our power,” one
spokesman told the reporters. Nobody doubts
that a crowd of 5000 men could smash a good
many windows if it wanted to, but exactly
how much sympathy the crowd expects to get
from such hostile demonstrations at a time
when the Holman Ministry is chin deep
in difficulties is not very clear. Broken
Hill comniains that it is the most neglected
place in Australia. Probably this sort of
attitude explains why.
♦-
The Federal Election.
The Federal Labor party has won a notable
victory at the polls, and the fact is a matter
for congratulation, if onlv for the reason
that the soured and depressed Joseph Cook
is not inspiring company. At the same time
a lot of the old glory has departed, and the
halo is somewhat bashed, and someone has
poured water or beer on the radiance and
partly put it out. Nowadays it is just as
difficult to get an assurance from Fisher
as from Cook that Australia will promptly
and energetically fulfil the conditions under
which it acquired the Northern Territory,
though it is admitted all round that the
construction of a railway to that great, neg-
lected land, and a vigorous land settlement
policy thereabouts are essential to the safety
of Australia. N.S.W. and. Queensland both
want possession of the southern end
of the Transcontinental line regardless
of the agreement, and regardless of
the obvious and conspicuous interests of
Australia, which call for the completion of
the short, straight steel highway. So
Fisher, of Queensland, and Cook, of
PHOTO. OF PART OF FEDERAL LAND
TAX ASSESSMENT PAPER.
N.S.W., who have to keep an eye on the
louai votins: power, are equally lingering and
uncertain. Fisher’s defence scheme is many
miles ahead of Cook’s, but it might be a
great deal better. Also, Fisher’s Common-
wealth Bank was a great idea, and his note-
issue scheme would have been a great idea
if it had been pushed to its logical conclu-
sion—that is to say, if the law had declared
that a large proportion of the private banks
cash reserves must be kept in Federal paper,
and that the goods must be available on
demand. As matters stand, the position is
very unsatisfactory. One of the biggest
banks in Australia recently scoffed at a
Bulletin man who asked for seven ot
Fisher’s ten-shilling notes in return for a
70s. cheque, and the teller explained that his
institution didn’t keep the wretched, dirty
things “on principle.” Fisher’s paper money
legislation was certainly better than any-
thing Cook could have been suspected of,
but the fact that it allows private banks to
establish a partial boycott of Federal monejv
and to scoff at it as if it was a woman of
loose character, is depressing. In the matter of
Federal industrial legislation the Fisher
party is a long way in front of the Cook
party. In the equally important matter ot
transferring the State debts to the Common-
wealth and trying to put some semblance ot
order and solvency into the dreadful finances
of this country the Cook party —or at least
its Bigjohn Forrest— makes the better
show. The Cook crowd has its Bruce Smith
and the Fisher crowd has its King
O’Malley. Each one has its anti-Defence-
ites. On the Cook side there is an Empire
Day party, which says we should depend on
the glorious Ma Country and have our
battles fought for us by the British navy in
the North Sea. On the Fisher side there is
a party which is represented by the folk at
Broken Hill who went to the railway station
to howl “murderers” at a few men who
had volunteered for the war. One section
believes in Chinamen because they are cheap
and yellow, and another section (though i!


less dangerous one) believes in them because
they are brothers and fellow-toilers. There
is great need just now to repair the tariff.
Under the present scale of duties such enor-
mous quantities of foreign cheap-labor goods
are pouring in that a multitude of Aus-
tralians are out of work, while the country is
borrowing millions and millions in order to
pay for these alien products, and national in-
solvency looms ahead. It may come just as
suddenly as the great war came. Cook has
made no definite promise to deal with the
tariff. Fisiier has made a most half-hearted
and unsatisfactory promise. Finally, there
is always the unpleasant knowiedge that the
Laborite who votes for llolman in N.S.W.
State politics is also the one who votes for
Fisiier in Federal politics. The Hol-
man Government has put up a record
bjp abandoning practically every item of
the Labor policy on which it acquired
office. Its political reputation stinks to
Heaven like a dead carcase. No Tory Minis-
try that N.S.W. ever possessed was more
ajti-Labor than Holman’s Cabinet, if Labor
isj to be judged by the policy on which the
ffresent Sydney crowd attained to its job.
The ■ .wiles and treasons and dodges and
shufflings and backslidings of the Holman
gang of profligates have cast a shadow over
the whole Australian Labor movement.
Therefore, so far as regards people who
believe in the policy rather than in any
casual politician or parasite who lives on
the policy and on the party name, some
of the old Labor enthusiasm has evaporated.
Holman and co. killed it.
[James Edmond, 214 George-street, Sydney.!
The World’s Most Expensive Luxury.
The war is likely to deal a nasty smack in
the eye to the monarchical system whichever
way it goes. To the autocracies it should be
fatal—more especially if Germania, as
seems likely, receives it in the neck. The
out-of-date old arrangement is to blame, to
a great extent, for the unspeakable carnage
and misery that are raging at the present
moment. Had Franz Joseph been an
elected President instead of an hereditary
Emperor, the death of the Archduke Fer-
dinand would have troubled no one but his
immediate relatives and friends and the
police authorities. But he was the heir to
a throne which is run on the divine-right-of-
Lvings basis. The old Emperor was failing;
the second heir was an untried youth; with
the departure of Ferdinand, Austria-
Hungary was menaced with anarchy. No
civilised nation should be menaced with
anarchy as the outcome of the death of one
middle-aged man. The passing of Fer-
dinand not only brought very close the
breaking up of Austria-Hungary, with all its
attendant horrors to the people concerned ;
it inflicted on the Empire an immediate and
disastrous war. There seems little doubt
that Kaiser William set a light to Europe
on the sound principle, from his standpoint,
that Austria, while of some value as an ally
with an experienced Emperor at the head
of things, was, in any other circumstances,
useless. Because one inconsiderable Arch-
duke happened to be killed, countless Ger-
man and Austrian lives must be sacrificed;
thousands of _ traders ruined ; innumerable
women and children left to starve ; commerce
must suffer to the extent of millions of
pounds sterling, and the vast majority of
the factories which have been laboriously
built up in both countries must close down
and allow their business to go elsewhere. It
is too big a price to pay for the Divine-right
luxury, and if the people concerned don’t
realise it and act accordingly, when oppor-
tunity offers, they will deserve all that is
coming to them. The adoption of Britain’s
system of a limited monarchy is probably the
most convenient plan for a nation which
wants to let its autocrat down in the kind-
liest manner possible. The King of Bull
can do no wrong in more senses than one.
He can do so little, as regards influencing
the policy of the nation, that the presence
on the throne of a fool would not do much
more harm or good than if the occupant
extremely wise man. Technically
the King, has power to do all sorts of things ;
in practice he can do hardly anything—as
was interestingly shown by the uproar which
was occasioned when George V. interfered,
with the best of intentions and in the most
inoffensive possible way, in the Home Rule
dispute. A Kaiser would have probably
settled such a question—had he felt suffi-
ciently strongly on it—by censoring the press
of the party to which he objected, and hav-
ing its leaders shot or gaoled as disloyalists.
The other prophylactic against absurd wars,
which mean ryin to all but the military caste
and infinite sorrow to everybody, is the insti-
tution of a Republic. The head of the aver-
age republic is a drab little man, who may
have been a lawyer or grocer or ship-
chandler previously to being called to the
head of the nation, and who goes back to
his old avocation when his term is finished,
and is heard of no more. He is rarely mur-
dered by a sane political enthusiast, for the
simple reason that such a crime would be
futile. There are thousands more of the
same type, where he came from, and his
decease, though it might temporarily irritate
the populace, would not have the remotest
effect on the national life. For a country to
have an Emperor like Franz Joseph and
an heir-apparent such as the late Ferdinand
is as though a family kept, out of sheer love
of excitement and display, a keg of dynamite
in the kitchen, where other households sup-
ABOUT A MAN WHO HASN'T BEEN MUCH HEARD OF LATELY.
port an ordinary hearthstone cat. The
difference between royal war-lords and hum-
drum Presidents or constitutional monarclis
is largely the difference between live bombs
and cats.
The Anomalies in Dirty Warfare.
“0.K.” throws a brick at the Bowels of
Compassion :
Amidst the allegations of Gorman brutaliy
to civilians in towns where the Kaiser’s troops
have fought their way, very few Tories are heard of
corresponding savagery on the fighting ground, where
the one reasonable endeavor of every soldier should
be to kill anybody who is out for the purpose of
killing him. Therefore there may be truth in the
report that “A British trooper was shot dead at Mons
while holding a water bottle to the mouth of a
wounded German.” Assuming that a trooper did get
done to death as stated, it is not logical to blame
the German who did it. To give a drink of water
to a wounded enemy on a battlefield whilst unwounded
enemies are around is a preposterously foolish act of
kindness. War is a frankly unchristian business, and
all the Good Samaritanism which is introduced into
it is indefensible, on common-sense grounds. The
rescue of German warshipmen by British ditto under
perilous circumstances was an illogical proceeding,
seeing that four German warships had just previously
been sunk, with hundreds of sailors aboard, by British
guns, and seeing also that the rescued Teutons had
possibly manned the German guns which destroyed a
few Britishers in the little naval battle. Where is
the fairplay in shooting or drowning Schultz and
then risking death in the endeavor to save Shultz's
co-battler Sciimidt. And on the battlefield how can
it be reasonable to succor a wounded enemy? Cannons
were fired in his direction, and because his head was
not blown off he stood to be bayoneted, maybe. His
comrades met a cruel death, but because he, per-
sonally, happened to escape slaughter, one of his
enemies kindly passes the water-bottle to him.
Carried to a logical conclusion, all warfare would be
a fight to a finish between the contending forces. No
quarter for the wounded who fell into the enemy’s
hands. No mercy to prisoners. Just slaughter,
slaughter, slaughter. The big cannons pay no atten-
tion to the “rules of civilised war.” The cruel, crafty
mines that float at large, seeking vessels to blow up,
are not guided by chivalrous considerations. The
rifles are fired with the wickedest intentions. The
cavalry charger can’t afford to have any bowels of
compassion. Then why does the soldier who has just
murdered one member of the enemy, and is hoping to
murder some more, go out of his way to keep the
third member of the enemy alive? We are told, by
the apologists for humanitarianism in inhumanity,
that war is conducted on sporting lines. No conten-
tion could be more false. Firearms have no sporting
instinct, automatic floating mines are as hateful to
the spirit of sport as an infernal machine forwarded
by post, or a steam-roller placed on a railway track.
Military spies are dirty foes to fairplay. Tampering
with telegraph messages is not sport. Nothing in
warfare is sport except the rare, occasional hand-to-
hand fight, which is sometimes terminated by a foul
blow struck at one of the contestants from the rear by
a mate of the other fellow. These unreasonable cour-
tesies to wounded enemies are vain attempts to give
a bright color of sport to a dark, dirty, despicable
business. Consistency in soldiering is fearle-s bru-
tality all the time. The gunner should be as merci-
less as the gun.
Spend, Spend, Spend!!!
. .. ,V ,
On a most important tariff question (written
by S. H. Prior, 214 George-street, Sydney) :
David llallways-Merry-and-Brioht, N. S. AVales
Attorney-General, recently got a motto for Australia
—an easy one: “Spend, Spend, Spend.” In recom-
mending it he made only the few plausible remarks
that might naturally be expected of the stipendiary
advocate of a spend, spend, spendthrift Government.
Nevertheless, to people with anything to sell it is
always pleasant to hear others urging the public to
buy; hence an echo of the new motto has ever
since been tinkling from every small trader’s camp.
It is a poor motto for all that. At all times
spending is either nationally wise or nationally
unwise, or of no national consequence' whatever, and
it is more so now than usual. If David Hall, for
instance, could incite the whole community to an
orgy of litigation, so that every little attorney in
the country should have two profitable cases a day,
and every barrister be fed with enough briefs to
keep his jaw wagging for 12 months, Australia
would nowhere grow two coppers where it grew only
one before. And from the national point of view,
all David Hall’s efforts to promote spending would
be quite futile. Then, if David Hall decided to
spend five guineas out of his fees in importing a
new wig from Kamschatka, or wherever wigs are
grown, the expenditure, instead of doing anything
for the country, would be distinctly to its disadvan-
tage. To pay for David Hall’s Kamschatka wig
either merchandise or gold would have to be
exported, and the wig, when it arrived, would add
neither to the country’s output of merchandise nor
of gold.
Just now Australia cannot afford even as well as
usual to pay merchandise or gold for non-productive
wigs. Last year the wool clip of Australia sold
to foreign buyers brought in nearly £22,000,000,
of which more than half was received before Christ-
mas. This year, with the wool sales suspended, it
looks as if Australia will get no money at all from
its wool clip before the end of December. If it
gets anything it will get much less than it
did last year. The most productive mines in the
country are held up, and very little merchandise
of the metallic sort is being exported to pay for
wigs and other imports. If there is not merchandise
to pay for them, we must either leave off importing
them or deplete our stock of gold, which might
easily be a calamity. Australia needs now above
all things to absorb the fact that we have not the
markets open to us for our raw products; conse-
quently if we will buy, buy, buy foreign goods and
spend, spend, spend, we can only do it at the expense
of our gold. What we need to do is to produce as
hard as we can to supply our own requirements, thus
incidentally employing the labor which, under pre-
vious conditions, has been used up in growing or
digging things for export purpose.
1 ivepence spent on a home-grown cauliflower is
in present circumstances of more national value than
£6OO spent on American asparagus.
«
The cables have started to mention that
after all Germany has “only a thin veneer
or civilisation.” It might be just as well if
Australia didn't press that point too hard.
This country lias been sitting on a sliprail
and watching sheep grow wool, and then cut-
ting the wool oft the sheep and sending it in
bundles- to Germany, among other places, so
that skilled artisans with modern machinery
might turn it into cloth. Also, this countrv
has been digging dirt out of the earth and
sending it in great shiploads to Germany,
where metallurgists have been turning it
into ingots for engineers to work up into all
kinds of machines and implements. Then
the Australian has left off his aboriginal jobs
of cutting wool and digging dirt for a few
minutes to buy German tweeds and German
tools. Even the Australian Governments,
with heaps of native metals at hand, have
been buying German bridges and machines
and steel rails; and when an Australian,
more venturesome than the rest, and dissatis-
fied with the aboriginal jobs of Wdofceitjtiiig
and dirt digging, has decided to become more
expert than usual, whether in metallurgy of
electrical engineerin' l, or in piano thumping,
he has mostly gone to Berlin or Frankfurt-
on-the-Sausage or Freiburg to learn his busi-
ness. Germany’s veneer of civilisation mhy
be thin, but a journal which is printed oh
German paper with German ink shouldn’t sa>
so.
“Henry ,T. J.” : Servia did such an amazing
climb-down in its reply to Austria’s arro-
gant demands that the big country had
really no excuse left to go to war upon.
It must have annoyed the Kaiser, with his
army ready, to find that practically Servia
had knocked the causus belli from under his
feet. Of the 11 demands, Servia accepted
eight, accepted the ninth
accepted the tenth subject to proof, mid
rejected the eleventh conditionally. In its
reply Servia. promised to state in the Ser-
vian Official Journal its condemnation
of Serb propaganda; its regret that Ser-
vian officers and officials participated in
Anti-Austrian propaganda; its promise to
prosecute rigorously all such offenders, and
to communicate this declaration to the army
by making it an order of the day and pub-
lishing it in the official bulletin of the army ;
to suppress all anti-Austrian publications
and societies; to eliminate all teachers and
methods of education that were anti-Aus-
trian ; and to dismiss all officers and officials
concerned in the propaganda. Austria
reserved to itself the right to name the
officers it regarded as guilty. Servia agreed,
but required proof. But when Austria de-
manded that Austrian representatives
should take part in the judicial proceedings
against the persons chanred with conspiracy
Servia naturally rejected—though only con-
ditionally—this complete surrender of sove-
reign rights ; though it conditionally agreed
to oblige by explanations of the anti-Aus-
trian utterances of high Servian officials.
Surely there was never such a climb-down
in history, or such a thin pretext left for
Armageddon.
“Six-ry-Two"’ writes: —
That incident at Etain, where the French telephone
girl kept the fortress of Verdun informed about the
progress of bombardment up to the point that “a
shell has just dropped on the office,” reminds one of
the Government telegraph operator at Rotorua (M.L.),
who kept the outside world informed of what was
going on there one night a quarter of a century ago,
when Hell hopped out from Mount Tarawera and tore
things up by the roots for a few days. Vast cauldrons
of boiling water foamed in every direction; great
wedges of scenery were heaved skyward; the earth
rocked and shivered, and the sounds from groaning
Tarawera were as if all the siege guns moulded since
Michael Adrian De Ruyter sailed into the Thames
were being played in ragtime. Through it all the
click, click, click of the telegraph instrument describ-
ing the performance to the Auckland office never fal-
tered. The man at the Rotorua end sat quietly in
his little, ramshackle building, with the universe
apparently falling about his ears, with boiling mud
spewing down the street, passing out news which
caused the M.L. papers to rush, panting, to press
every hour with thrilling copy. Beside him silently
crouched his Maori wife and two children. She, of
all her race, remained. The rest had lit out for the
horizon early in the proceedings. There she stayed
with her man until an explosion more mighty than
the rest shattered telegraph wires and posts. Then
the pair of them went to have a look round the
riven landscape, and the rest of Maoriland wondered
whether a hole had been blown through to Europe. It
was a gallant performance.
+.
“Hermes” : One of the things that suggests
that Kaiser Bill had no real intention of
fiying off the handle and plunging the world
into war is the fact that German ships were
in scores of British ports. The llohenzoll-
f.rns are understood to be considerable
shareholders in both the big companies
which own the bulk of the German mercan-
tile marine—the Hamburg-Amegika and
Norddeutscher Lloyd. The latter company
can have hardly a decent-sized steamer left.
Had there been any deep-laid and carefully-
prepared plan, that shipping would surely
have been warned away from British ports
on some pretext or another. So, apparently,
the Kaiser was only bluffing, and when
Russia called his bluff he lost his head and
declared war in such a hurry that he didn’t
even make sure about his allies. And, curi-
ously enough, though he declared war on
Russia, he attacked France without forma-
lity. It makes one wonder if the gentleman
drinks. Also it suggests that it is a mighty
bad thing to give any single individual the
power to let loose the dogs of Bellona. One
of the features of the struggle is that
Prussia, the Kaiser’s own special kingdom,
is the first part of Germany to feel the hor-
rors of war, and will probably suffer most.
This is almost inevitable, as the decisive
factor in the struggle is the invasion of Ger-
many by the overwhelming numbers of Rus-
sia. A German army may arrive before
Paris, hut that is strongly fortified and cap-
able of a tremendous resistance, whereas
when the Russian army arrives at Berlin —
and it is on the road —it will find an open
and helpless city. The burning of the
picturesque old town of Louvain will excuse,
if it does not justify, the destruction of the
German capital.
*
Although Maoriland has gone out on a
patriotic drunk of excessive dimensions it
hasn’t got sufficient rifles to arm the men
who are anxious to prepare to defend the
Loan Land. At Gisborne (M.L.) a defence
corps was organised the other day, and so
many men enrolled that the Government had
to warn them that there wouldn’t be enough
lifles to go round, and that many of Them*
The Retreat from the Poll.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Still we hear the thud of cannon—still we
hear the carbines crack,
And the clouds of hostile horsemen hang
like jackals on our track,
For Ave’ve lost our only battle, and our sol-
diers curse and laugh
When we spur our jaded chargers. Once we
were the General Staff.
Now we’re only mounted cowards —fools who
lost their first big fight,
And we’re lost amongst the rabble that is
prayi nr for the night,
When the shells will cease, from tkirsting
and the horsemen fade away
From the hills where we, the ieaders, lost
the intellectual day.
In the peaceful days and foolish ive were
feathered generals all,
And we marshalled them and drilled them to
our own press bugle call; •
We assured them their equipment—manu-
factured by ourselves —
Was superior to any on the foeman’s mental
shelves ;
So we petted them and praised them, and
they thought they were all right,
Till the unexpected happened, and we found
we had to fiedit:
Then the cartridges all fizzled and the big
shells failed to burst.
And our soldiers told us plainly we were one
and all accurst.
Now we’re simply flying with them while
pursuing shrapnel rains
On our heads, in which but lately we consid-
ered we had brains :
All is darkness, haste a,nd horror on the rifle-
littered road.
And we’re humble —oh ! we're humble ’neath
affliction’s heavy load ;
Hut we urge them to have courage as we
splash and clatter by.
(We must live for future battles though the
plodding linesmen die.
P’raps the new recruits will follow from the-
palaces and slums
When we call them to the slaughter with a
roll of inky drums.)
[Ermf.pt Francis O’Ferrari,, 214 George-street,
Sydney. 1


Hotel Steyne,
Manly Beach, N.S.W.
Facing the Pacific Ocean,
THE BRIGHTON OF AUSTRALIA.
SURF-BATHING RIGHT IN
FRONT OF THE HOTEL.
Excellent Golf Links in Close Proximity.
Hot Salt Water Baths Adjacent.
TERMS—From 11/6 Day;
£3 JOs. Week.
would have to defend Uncle’s security with
a broomstick. But why not rely, as was
so often insisted, upon an increased naval
subsidy to Britain? Why this sudden in-
gratitude to that grand old principle?
—
The War, so Far as it Has Gone.
The week has been one of haste and blood-
shed, at what is vaguely described as “the
front.” In the north of France the Franco-
British army has done a steady retreat.
That is to say, it has fought a long series
of hard battles, has apparently always
inflicted more loss than it sustained, and has
stepped lightly away to a new position a
few miles in the rear when the German
enveloping movement became serious. There-
fore the German only grasped a handful of
air, and next day, or the day after, he had
to resume his task of rolling the stone of
Sisyphus uphill. Jofeke and French
appear to have a genius for keeping the line
unbroken, and getting away cheaply in the
matter of guns and prisoners. At the same
time it is too soon to allege that the luck
will continue. At the moment of writing
a vast German concentration —the very big-
gest one to date —was in progress with the
view, it is assumed, of striking the sledge-
hammer blow of all history at the French
line, and cutting off the army in Lorraine
from the one outside Paris. Considering
that part of the garrison of Paris is said
to have come out to bear a hand on the
flank of the attacking force, it is evident
that something large is expected. Consider-
ing, also, that a very strenuous Russian
force is said to have landed in Belgium to
help the Belgians in an attack on the
German rear, something very large may
happen. The Germans are practically
in sight of Paris, but Paris is reckoned
the strongest city in Western Europe,
and will require a lot of capturing,
especially with the allied army to in-
terrupt the proceedings. Antwerp, which
is considered the second strongest city in
Western Europe, hasn’t .been attacked yet.
A German army was progressing gaily in
its ’direction, but the maddened Belgians
cut the dykes which hold in the river
Scheldt, and flooded the country, and the
assailants struggled away through 4ft. of
water. At the eastern end of the long
French battle line, the German forces have
apparently been reduced to strengthen the
multitude in spiked helmets which made
the great rush for Paris, and there the
French gain every now and then a mile or
two of German territory. Elsewhere the
luck of William llohenzollern and his
party has been moderate. The Austrian
army apparently went to utter w r reck in the
seven days’ battle outside Lemberg, and that
big city—the fourth in the Austro-Hun-
garian Empire—surrendered to the Czar
without firing a shot. It is alleged, amid
the general panic, that Austria won’t put
up another serious fight, and that the ill-
jointed empire may dissolve. The Servians
are already reoorted to be in Austrian terri-
tory, and hustling along in their small way
with little opposition. Poor old Francis
Joseph is presumably dead. At least it
was announced two weeks ago that his death
was only a matter of hours, and after that
he was no more mentioned till the other day.
Then somebody remembered him, and alleged
that he was still able to totter around. A
common theory is that the body has been
concealed, this not being a good time to
advertise extra misfortunes. Like the
dead Solomon, sitting on his throne propped
up with his staff, Francis Joseph may
reign a little while longer to prevent worse
confusion. The German pretence of
an invasion of Russian Poland is
ended, for the time at least, and the
Bear hosts are gradually pushing
William’s forces towards Berlin. The
William crowd gains an occasional
success, but new floods of Bears
appear on the horizon and the ad-
vance resumes. A tentative offer of
Spanish aid to France, and a few
small arid misfortunate scraps at sea
are part of the llohenzollern for-
tunes for the week. The marine
scraps are very small, for the German
navy is hard to find these days. A
curious recent item was a newspaper
statement —presumably official —that,
as the German armies had now got
in sight of Paris. Germany could,
without loss of dignity, and as a
matter of grace, offer France an
honorable peace. It was obviously
a hint that one of the big allies
would get liberal concessions if it
consented to be bought off. The answer
was an announcement that Russia, France
and Britain would stand or fall together, so
the scheme failed. It was a sign of despond-
ency. and nothing was gained by the
despondency. Already there are specula-
tions as to whether William may rot be
dragged off the throne, and his whole family
disqualified when the shindy is over, though
that is looking far ahead as yet. The burn-
ing of the undefended Belgian city of Lou-
vain, a place of learning and old traditions
and magnificent art treasures, has hardened
the heart of Europe, and a desire has arisen
to do something stringent to William if the
time ever becomes ripe.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS. FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Gill in the Taxi”
Royal “Du Barry”
Adelphi “The Rosary”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
National Theatre Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville
Lyceum Spencer's Pictures
Glaciarium & Olympia West’s Pictures
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
Imperial Salon De Luxe Dancing
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Gipsy Love”
King’s “Bunty Pulls the Strings”
Royal “Monsieur Beaucaire”
Princess’s “The Glad Eye”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Glaciarium Ice-Skating
Bijou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville
♦
Much trouble 1 would be obviated on the
stage if the men who live in “chambers”
and are accustomed to invite nice girls to
visit them at midnight would only display a
little sense in choosing their apartments.
In every stage scene set in the man’s cham-
bers there are only two rooms, and there
is no exit from the room off-stage except
through the entrance room. If the villain
would only see to it that there is a back
stair qr even a fire-escape from the second
apartirfent—the one into which he shoves
the girl while he interviews her parents and
denies that there is anything female on the
premises—she could be scooting away while
he is doing his lying. This scene has so
often been used in the melodrama of to-day
that an occasional stage villain might be
expected to learn sense; but in “The Chorus
Lady,” at Sydney Criterion, another
woman’s reputation is temporarily wrecked
in the same old way—all for the want of a
back stair.
By arrangement with Geo. Willoughby,
Ltd, E. J. Carroll will offer “The Rosary”
to Sydney, or as much of Sydney as can
crowd into the Adelphi, on Saturday night.
Harrington Reynolds will lead the original
co., which played the toece so long in the
United States that it could do it backwards
if specially requested by a large and influ-
ential audience. Edward E. Rose, who
dramatised “The Prisoner of Zenda,” is
responsible for “The Rosary.”
Nellie Stewart, as “Du Barry,” is going
regularly to the Sydney Royal guillotine.
If she is executed many more times she will
probably get a crick in the neck.
M= * H= H:
“Mr. Wu” is in his last nights at Sydney
Palace. It was a calamity that this drama
should have been staged, for the first time,
at the vast Adelphi, where all its most telling
reticences became lost amongst the rafters, so
to speak. At the Palace the theatre-goer is
able to hear the horrific Wu, howsoever he
mutters, and the general effect is more
thrilling than many bellowdramas. Acrid
criticism was levelled at Wu, on the night
the writer attended this show, by folks whose
acquaintance with Chinese had been admit-
tedly limited to the vegetable John class.
Habituated as they were to a display of
uncontrollable passion over an error of 2d.
in the cabbage account, they could not take
seriously the tremendous stolidity of the
Mandarin at the Palace. However, The
Bulletin understands that these impassive
creatures are as common in China as import-
“DU BARRY,” AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
Madame Du Barry (Nellie Stewart)
“ hides ” her lover from the king (Clarence
Blakston) but not from even the most unob-
servant galleryite.
ers are here. The most incredible" thing in
the show is probably Wu’s daughter. To
this writer’s mind she is far too alluring to
be Asiatic.
H= H: * *
“The Girl in the Taxi” is still at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney. The cash arrangement
near the driver’s wheel—in brief, the pay
box —is working as satisfactorily as can be
expected.
❖ H: H= *
The Sydney Tivoli shows little change of
programme this week, and Paul Cinquevalli,
despite rumors that Premier Holman has
offered him the Treasury portfolio, remains
in office at the Castlereagh-street house. A 1
Herman (“the black laugh”), Betli Tate
(last nights), Welch and Carbasse with a
new sketch, and Ted Mercell, the skater, are
his principal assistants.
* * H= H:
Sister Millie Doris is back at the National
Amphitheatre (Sydney) and The Bulletin
arises to say that debt or political ava-
lanches cannot dim its appreciation of She
of the Hot Cross Bun. The Boudini Bros,
with their musical abilities have also become
favorites at the house, and Mdlle. Schell has
not yet been eaten by her revolving lions.
He H= He H«
Nero didn’t fiddle while Rome was burn-
ing, but Sydney continues to tango while
Europe is in flames. Day and night the
Imperial Salon de Dance is merry and
bright. A special entertainment of vocal
selections from grand opera is announced
for Saturday. Grand opera and tango are
the winning double.
Adelaide shows have run to music, mostly.
Gilbert and Sullivan hold the Royal, with
quick changes of programme. The render-
ing is adequate rather than brilliant, the
heroines being on the mature scale Aus-
tralia is accustomed to of late years. Walenn
and Kavanagh are two new and pleasant
comedians, and Dorothy Yane retains all her
old sense of humor, with that s.tartlingly-
effective deep contralto speaking-voice. Mana-
ger Myers arranged at the Royal a big
patriotic matinee, at which King’s and Tivoli
artists lent a hand. Wondergraph has had
a similar effort in the military picture line.
The “pink” Dandies have farewelled : Bren-
nan, Ford Waltham, Rita Fitzgerald, etc.—
a strong little co. Peter Dawson looked in
on his native town for one farewell evening,
and gave the clever “Parody Pie” sequence to
a house that was jolly-good considering the
circumstances, which are numerous. . There
were never so many circumstances in Ad-
elaide before. The Tivoli is prominent on the
athletic side, the Carpatti gymnasts being
added to an already strong bill. Dusty
Rhodes is back again with his songs, and
Eugenie Damond fiddles. At the King’s,
Hanlon, Dean and Hanlon are the best thing
in sight for the moment. Wondergraph,
“Dean Maitland” (verv popular) ; West’s, a
good mixed bag of films; and concerts every-
where.
“DU BARRY.”
The shapely foot attracts Richelieu.
“Gipsy Love” (Her Majesty’s Melbourne),
as The Bulletin remarked of it in Syd-
ney two months ago, is a delightfully
melodious light opera, composed on semi-
grand lines. Operatically considered it is
for the most part superior to “The Merry
Widow,” by the same composer. Also, it
makes a fine show, and the incidental
dances, by Miss Novotna and Lauschmann,
and the ballet are notable features, and the
principals in the performance are the
strongest all-round company the J.C.W.
firm has presented of late years. So mucli
for the musical entertainment. The story,
however, is exceptionally inhuman and silly.
It starts with the idea of a serious main
plot, introducing a devil of a picturesque
lover for the hero, and a tenderly-romantic
young woman for heroine; but the idea gets
dragged through the mire of ridicule and
the Odor of romance deteriorates into a
commonplace smell. The best thing to do is
to shut your senses to the absurdities of
the libretto, whilst keeping your ears open
to the charms of the music, which is pretty,
even in its cheapest comedy numbers.
The two new ladies, Misses Elsie Spain
and Gertrude Glyn, are both tall and grace-
ful and vocally efficient. The former has a
cultured, sympathetic soprano voice for her
sentimental character of the impossible
Ilona, and the latter sings almost as win-
somely a£ she frivols and dances in a tight
skirt. She achieves the difficult purpose of :
being interesting whilst coupled with Jack
Cannot, the grotesque Dagotin of the piece.
Cannot’s humor is droll, as a rule, but his
gags are of the mixed quality, and much
too numerous. Dorothy Brunton, as the
ingenue in a flapper frock, is a bright sun-
beam of truth, lighting a world of fiction,
her particular colleague being Phil Smith,
who sniggers and grins strenuously in an
inane part. Olive Godwin appears to
advantage as a red-hot gipsy lady of no real
importance, Ralston as a burly innkeeper
with a full-bodied song; and Julius Roscius,
as the stodgy affianced husband of Ilona,
sings feelingly in the typical Italian style.
Derek Hudson, the other newcomer, rolls
his eyes in the flash Gipsy character. His
baritone warble is rich and strong. He
brings down the house with his principal
effort, but his enunciation is not honest, and
in his talk more than in his sing, he seems
to utter the words unnaturally—a common
fault with baritones—from the back of his
throat. McCunn’s orchestra does good
work; also, the scenes by Coleman and
Upward deserve the thanks of the com-
munity.
“The Scarlet Pimpernel” is reappearing
again at Melbourne Royal, and J. Knight
is once more rescuing bunches of French
royalists from amputation of the head with-
out chloroform. Julius is the same old
successful portrayer of the Pimpernel role,
and the spotlight loves to linger on him in
all his phases from the semi-comatose idler
to the resolute and heroic bloke of action.
Leslie Victor resumes the job of Chauvelin,
the spidery representative of the French
Republic, who tries to discover the Pim-
pernel’s identity with unflagging inattention
to obvious clues. A poor detective is Chau-
velin, and he hardly warrants the meticu-
lous enunciation and expressive hand play
which Victor lavishes on the character. In
the part of Lady Blakeney Miss Irene
Browne curbs her affectations considerably,
though she still shows a tendency to let her
dramatic style run to over-emphasis and
ostentation. Frank Harvey, Martin Lewis
and Herbert Bentley agreeably fill the parts
of Prince of Wales, Sir Andrew Ffoulks
and Lord Dewhurst; and 1 Misses Emma
Temple and Lizette Parkes do good and well-
dressed service as the Comtesse de Tournai
and her daughter, Suzanne. The scenery
is middling, and the clothes of certain high-
born people suggest that their credit is
under suspicion. Next Saturday night
Julius Knight will begin to radiate for six
nights as Monsieur Beaucaire.
>!s * * *
Kiki continues to give tlie_ “Glad Eye” to
all the men who come within her range of
vision at Melbourne Princess’s, but Bunny
—dear old Bunny—is still her best boy.
She gets money from Bunny more affec-
tionately than she collects it from other
admirers, and this paper has quite decided
that Iviki’s marriage with Chausette —if it
should eventuate before she perceives the
horror of it—will not prevent her from main-
taining Bunny as her pet financier. The
staircase in the second act of “Glad Eye”
keeps the two active and unintelligent hus-
bands as busy as ever. The burglar alarm
happens as before, and the tall wife in the
green costume, is still stated, by her own
Gaston, to be “mustard.” Her acting is not
suggestive of mustard.
* * sic s':
One more week of “Bunty” will end the
season of that peculiar Scawtch comedy at
Melbourne King’s; People who refrain
from sampling Graham Moffat’s little play
on the understanding that it is haggis to the
general are missing a new experience.
“Bunty” is comprehensible to all exponents
of the Australian language. “Weelum” is a
discouraging name on the playbills, likewise
Tammas, Rab, Teenie, Jeems and Eelen; but
on the stage they explain their meaning.
Their diction, though a wee bit deefficult at
times, is never quite obscure. By the way,
the usual Weelum was missing the other
night, on account of a cold, and a satisfac-
tory understudy of similar brawness took
his place.
* He He *
De Dio, who floats and prances in varie-
gated, limelit surroundings, is the most
refreshing circumstance at Melbourne Tivoli
this week. Two new singers and dancers,
Russell and Held, are not conspicuously
clever additions to Mclntosh’s, forces, while
The Bulletin finds it a considerable effort
to mention Phil Ivaufmann, the coon-
warbler, with approval. But for the fact
that Timbuctoo, as an outlying section of
French Africa, is now (theoretically) help-
ing to hold up our end of the good cause.
Phil K. would get no mention at all.
** * *
Melbourne Bijou is the present address
of Wm. Sumner and Dorothy Harris, both
ragtime merchants with somewhat original
methods in delivering the goods. Leslie and
Sol Bern are hardly in the first flight of
Hebrew comedians, but the Carpos equili-
brists demonstrate that they have acquired
the art of maintaining their balance in un-
expected positions. Most impressive among
the rest of the Bijou detachment, are the
Great Westin, Matilde and Elvira, and
Hartley, the jumper, with a vehement lady
supporter.
H: * * *
“Jean Sibi” : Considerable evidence .of the
industry of the “Twelve Melbourne Painters
will be found at the local Athenaeum this
week. W. B. Mclnnes hangs some distin-
guished landscapes, mostly Scotch in sub-
ject, but including some Moorish jottings
full of dust, decay and burnoused ruffians.
Miss Dora L. Wilson mobilises 20 of her
efforts, the best of which is a rather heavy
view of her sister, and the worst a nude in
a state of repose. Several handsome in-
teriors and a villa-dotted hillside bear the
signature of Louis McCubbin, while' Miss
Traill is responsible for a decorative panel
and various landscapes. F. It. Crozier s
contributions are mostly a. capitally-painted
GIPSY LOVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Behold a Gipsy in a cloak who bears a
violin !
The purpose of this bizarre bloke a maiden’s
love to win ;
He sings and sighs,
And turns his eyes
A trifle upwards to the skies,
Whilst prowling round the noble home of
Poppa Dagotin.
Old Dagotin is just a guy; he has a putty
nose,
And gaily at the Gipsy sly a mildewed gag
he throws ;
Still in and out
And round about
The mansion of this parent stout,
With greasy gait and goo-goo gaze the Gipsy
comes and goes.
Ilona is the daughter’s name, a maiden tall
and slim;
Gip. Jozsi sets her heart aflame to please his
wanton whim ;
With yearnful glance,
And song and dance
He feeds her passion for romance,
Though all her people wonder what the
dooce she sees in him.
Her other lover sings in vain—alas! for
plump Jonel! —
Ilona (that’s Miss Elsie Spain) prefers her
swarthy swell,
In Jozsi’s care
The maiden fair
Is taken to a wine-shop, where
He kisses gipsy girls galore and snubs his
high-born helle.
Then Lady Babby comes to save the foolish
girl from sin :
She fascinates that fickle knave who scrapes
the violin.
A festive “case”
Who goes the pace
Is Babby. (In another place
She spreads her widow’s wiles to snare the
wealthy Dagotin.)
She tricks the Gipsy with her scheme: he
falls into the trap :
Ilona sees that he, her “dream,” js quite a
tawdry chap :
And meek and mild,
The erring child,
All penitent and undefiled,
Comes home and takes her lawful place on
bridegroom Jonel’s lap.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY,
HATS.
For
DURABILITY
NABOB BOOT PASTE,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney.
Keep it
On Hand
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
series of weather reports, while Harry B.
Harrison switches a realist’s piercing gaze
on some highly-colored visions of lowly toil.
Percy Leason gets full marks for two
daintily colored monotypes; but, as regards
his portrait of L. L. Politzer, the head seems
merely an unconsidered sundry in the tout
ensemble. Miss Sutherland scores chiefly in
her still-life work, and the only noticeably
defecTive' feature of Miss Cumbrae Stewart’s
lot is an Ophelia with some of her fingers
out of drawing. The same artist’s impres-
sion of the.Yarra Basin, by the way, shows
that that dingy part of the world is fashion-
able with artists this season. Among the
other exhibits three striking studies of chil-
dren by Miss Florence ftodway give neighbor-
ing artists some badly-needed lessons in the
proper handling of pastels.
A stbange animal is Luck, and no man
ever knows when lie-lias it with him. Consider
the case of Feeeman, who, recently sen-
tenced to death in Sydney, will most likely
spend the rest of his life in gaol. His
crime was using a revolver on a night-
watchman, in order to cover the retreat of
a mate who was engaged in burgling the
savings bank in Oxford-street. Feeeman
contracted the habit of going do gaol for
robbery as far back as 1894. He has
had two doses, each of five years, and several
minor helpings. Last year he was before
the Quarter Sessions on a charge of theft,
but had what seemed like the amazing good
fortune to get through as a first offender,
the Law being at the moment too sound
asleep to identify him as the old friend he
really was. Feeeman would have got two
years for certain that time, if he had been
spotted, and no doubt he felt that a large
slice of Luck had come his way. But it hadn’t.
4ne somnolence of the legal machine was
for him really the rottenest of misfortune,
for, instead of being safe and sound at Long
Bay, he started on the road to Oxford-street
and a life sentence. Feeeman, by the
way, is a Jew. Like all men who have
been much in gaol, he is entirely reckless
and more or less mad.
♦
Reviewing the election results in Victoria,
bydney Telegbaph says: “Mr. Jolley, who
is now ahead of Mr. Hans Irvine, is just
an average Labor candidate.’’ Which is com-
plimentary to the Labor party. Jolley
graduated M.A., LL.M. at Melbourne Uni-
versity in 1894, and annexed many of the
varsity’s most valued scholarships. He
practises law at Maryborough (Vic.).
[J. E. O’Bbien, Mosman, Sydney.]
" THE SOLDIER'S WEDDING," AT
SYDNEY ADELPHI.
The comic man, disgiused with a moustache
and lantern, comes to the rescue of Cross's
reputation.
Moana : A year or two back an alleged
prophet named Norman Angell wrote a book
about war, entitled “The Great Illusion,”
or “The Great De-lusion,” or something like
that. In it he proved that Germany couldn’t
go to war, because, from a business and
financial standpoint, it would be lunacy to
tight Britain. He also proved that France
couldn’t go to war, that Austria couldn’t go
to war, that Russia couldn’t go to war, and
that John Bull couldn’t go to w r ar. Where-
fore people arose in every country and called
him blessed, and a big effort was made to
present Norman with the Nobel Peace Prize.
Will the Peace Prophet now step to the
front, lie on his stomach on top of his
solemn oath, and say exactly what he thinks
of his wonderful book at the present moment
when all the “impossibilities” have hap-
pened in a heap? Also what about present-
ing him with the Prize for the Worst
Prophet at Large?
AT POVERTY POINT.
“John P.” : Remarks re “Ruddigore” (B.
13/8/T4) remind me that, in spite of what
Cellier says about it being the biggest suc-
cess of the G. and "S. series financially, it
was at the first performance of this play
at the Savoy that the front row of the gods
arose at the end of Act I. and yelled:
“Take off this blanky rot and give us the
Mick-er-doo!”
“Norbell”: The Gilbert and Sullivan
revivals suggest the names of bygone matinee
idols. At least they were idols, out there were
no matinees in the early days of “Pinafore,”
“Patience,” “lolanthe,” “Mikado,” etc. One
of the best, who had sung the tenor roles
in the original productions of many of the
operas at the Savoy, was Charles Kenning-
-Imm. He had a fine stage presence, and
could act as well as sing. His good acting
won for him a part in the comedy, “Pygma-
lion and Galatea,” when Gilbert was “com-
manded” to do that play at Windsor Castle,
lvenningham teaches singing and plays the
organ in church at Maryborough (Q.) nowa-
days. I heard him sing “Take a Pair of
Sparkling Eyes” the other week, and to my
taste he sings it as well as ever. Most of
the operatic tenors I have heard lately are
reminiscent of a ducky hen.
“V, C. Barnstormer”: Clarence Blakiston,
who plays Louis XV- to Nellie Stewart’s Du
Barry, has the Lewis Waller style exactly.
I would say that he had “sat under” Waller
through many a worshipful matinee, noting
in particular Lewis’s trick of dilating his
eyes in moments pf kingly anger. Man
having no tail to lash, the actor is driven to
adopt some trick of the sort to indicate how
savage he feels. And rolling his eyes is
better than rolling himself.
One innocent victim of the war is the
projected “White City” in Adelaide. At
least, the Eslick-Baird syndicate announced
that as the reason for suspension; but the
idea had been before the public for a week
or two before the Kaiser got wild. On a
central pitch adjoining the Oval it would
have had a big chance; but a poll of rate-
payers vetoed that, and the alternative site
in a casual suburb more than a mile out
was a different proposition. A local syndi-
cate that bought Henry Ayers’ old mansion
—on North Terrace, opposite the Hospital
—still has the boards up announcing that
half the grounds will be for a palais-de-
danse and half for an open-air concert; but
various things may happen before the hot
weather. On the other hand, Cawthorne,
music-seller and concert-promoter, announces
definitely that he has secured the Central
Hall, attached to a German democratic club
in Grenfell-street, and means to turn it next
winter into a “Queen’s Hall,” to hold 1000,
to catch the various balls, concerts and
theatricals that now, for lack of something
of the sort, usually go to town halls in vari-
ous suburbs.
When the last English mail left ’Ome two
actresses, well known to the elder genera-
tion of Australian playgoers, were figuring
in the cast of Cosmo Hamilton’s “The
Blindness of Virtue,” at the Ambassadors
Theatre, London. They were Miss Emma
Bronton, once conspicuous with Brough
and Boucicault, and Miss Polly Emery, the
cleverest low comedienne ever seen in Aus-
tralia. As a servant girl in an ill-regulated
household or hash-tower Polly Emery had
no equal. Incidentally, the Australian rights
of “The Blindness of Virtue” have been
secured by E. J. Carroll, who brought to
Australia “Bunty” and “The Rosary.”
“Theorbo”: By last mail came the news
that Messager and Broussan, managers of
the Paris Grand Opera, had financially col-
lapsed. They had the house rent-free, with
subsidy of £32,000 a year. Further capital
of £60,000 was subscribed by benevolent
supporters and art patrons. On the other
hand the managers were compelled to give
192 shows a year, “high-class in all re-
spects.” There must be every year eight
acts of new operas or ballets by French
composers. The former manager, Gailhard,
squared up the balance-sheet, under per-
petual growls of “Inartistic!” The Grand
Opera is an antiquated, drooping institution.
Messager and Broussan had reached within
a few months of the termination of their
seven years’ contract, but the first crisis
came in February, 1909, only 13 months
after their accession. The greater part of
the subscribed capital had gone, and a break-
down was only averted by the providential
arrival of new capital. The opera house
is a huge, obsolete, ill-contrived building.
Too much space in the grand staircase, pas-
sages, lounges, foyers, with too little for the
stage necessities. Constant expensive shift-
ing of stuff to and from warehouses. Up-to-
date plant is needed, which would make it
necessary to close the theatre for a long
time. Every expense is on a tremendous
scale. The architect is mainly blamed. Two
thousand people are employed. Yet salaries
of principals are low, because the price of
seats cannot be altered. An affluent ass or
optimist took over the contract when the
old management collapsed. Then the Ger-
man army appeared on the horizon, and the
affluent ass-optimist probably wishes he had
never spoken.
“Vagabond”: I’m chiefly interested in the
par by “Billy B.” (B. 14/5/T4) on the
kindly co. that offers for a fiver to teach
people to photo-play write, because I’ve had
a few attempts at the same job myself, and
can only recommend writers to save their
fivers, and save themselves the trouble of
tackling the job. There may be a demand
tor flicker plays, although the 10,000 shows
referred to as requiring 12 new dramas a
week aren’t in the market to buy plays and
produce them. I don’t wonder at the co.
offering to sell its education on the way to
manufacture the plays for a fiver at time.
I’d sell all my knowledge of it for that
amount, and make more money by the sale
than ever I’m likely to do off the writing.
Ihe curse of the thing is the price paid for
the writing. I remember doing one in Aus-
tralia which a firm of producers agreed was
good enough to spend a good pile of pounds
on. They offered me 10s. for my work, plot
and writing all complete. I told them they
could keep the tiling and use the- 10s. to buy
themselves a nicely-framed copy of the text,
It is More Blessed to Give Than to Re-
ceive,” to hang over the manager’s mantel-
piece. I’ve sold one or two plays in London
since, but never got more than fl Is. for
any .of them. It pays a heap better to use
the idea, the plot and the writing in a short
story, and sell one out of half a dozen, and
scrap the rest. And I suppose it pays
best of all to sell the knowledge of how to
write the plays at a fiver a time.
‘J.F.H.” (from the spot) : A London
variety theatre has tried the experiment of
an “All American Week,’* but neither press
nor public was very enthusiastic about the
innovation. A dozen Yankee turns in unre-
lieved succession, all in the Amurrikan lan-
guage, make for irritating monotony. So
the London audience thought on the first
night. It started guying the artists before
the performance was half over, and the
sloppy sentimentalism that characterises so
many U. States songs and sketches was
greeted with boisterous guffaws, to the
obvious consternation of the performers, who
apparently expected everybody to take out
a handkerchief and shed a silent tear. Each
member of the audience was presented with
a packet of chewing-gum on entering the
theatre, but the Cockneys seemed unable to
appreciate it. The experiment is not calcu-
lated to encourage an all-Australian week in
Fogopolis, although show people from down
under, not having the mannerisms or twang
or eccentricities of the Americans, would be
more likely to make a success.
“C. Ockney”: As a polite letter-writer I
cannot hope to compete with “Harrison 0.,”
but, on reading his irrelevant screed (B.
20/8/’l4), I really am impelled to call him
a “twister.” Of course Grundy collaborated
with Solomon. I distinctly said so, and
instanced their best-known work, “The Vicar
of Bray,” so it would have most decidedly
been “asinine” on my part to insinuate “that
Grundy would have required to be hard up
before working with the Yankee Yid.” (Why
“Yankee Yid,” by the way? Solomon was
not a Yankee.) All I suggested was that it
was much more likely that “Pot” Stephens—
chronically “stony”—was the librettist who
would be applied to in the emergency to
write a phantom comic opera for any manage-
ment that was prepared to put up a cheque
on account of fees. “Harrison O.” says it
was Grundy and is prepared to bet about it.
I don’t propose to wager a copper. When I bet
I prefer to get a run for my money. In this
case all the principals are dead. This, as
far as I am concerned, is the finish.
“Yarra Ben”: Apropos the remarks of
“S.T.S.” (“Poverty Point,” 3/9/Y4) on
Julius Knight’s Marcus (“Sign of the
Gross”), and what Wilson Barrett thought
of his pet piece. We shall all be freshly
interested when once more Julius takes the
stage in the latest revival, at the Theatre
Royal, Melbourne, of the old play, or ser-
mon, or melodrama or “Salvation Army
pantomime,” as. William Archer, the World
critic, termed it on its first production in
London. Barrett could afford to laugh at
A.rcher’s rather cruel gibe, for he certainly
did “pantomime business” from start to
finish, and I can’t recall any frosty or un-
profitable seasons with the “Sign” in Aus-
tralia either. Julius Knight, by the way,
is to. have yet another new Mercia on this
occasion. Not his present leading lady,
Irene Browne, but the home-grown and
steadily-progressing Lizette Parkes will
appear in the part. Lizette will have no
difficulty in looking the martyr maiden, and
Irene Browne should likewise look Berenice.
That Barrett ever said that he could never
equal Knight’s performance is unthinkable.
It is a curious thing about the part of
Marcus that every actor who has appeared
in it has been better than anybody else.
“J.F.H.”: Queer things happen in Ire-
land. The bhoys of Westport objected to
Canon Hannay’s play, “General John
Regan,” as a libel and slander upon the
town (where the Canon was in charge of the
Protestant church for many years). They
wrecked the theatre and chased the players
out of the town. Anywhere else these
ardent spirits would have been brought be-
fore the beak and fined ; but at Westport 35
of them were committed for trial on a
charge of riotous disturbance, and a whole
Lord Chief Baron was brought from Dublin
to hear the case. Twenty of the accused
were tried in one batch and were acquitted
by an undisguisedly sympathetic jury. The
second batch will probably not be proceeded
against. The funniest part of the proceed-
ings was a claim from a police inspector
who got his feet trodden upon in the melee,
The Judge awarded him £5OO, to be raised
by a levy on the whole county of Mayo (in
which Westport is situated). It" pays
handsomely to be “maliciously injured” ir>
Ireland.
“C. Ockney” : Says “Harrison 0.,” apropos
of warning Australian dramatists against
the “repertory” play (B. 13/S/’l4) : “A
Shaw is born; Pineros and Grundys can be
made!” Well, if this is so, I should like to'
inquire why haven’t they manufactured a
few more Pineros and Grundys in England?
Heaven knows, England could do with them.
Those brilliant craftsmen, and exponents of
the “well-made” play, held the field against
all comers in their respective lines for a
pretty considerable period. No rival has
seriously challenged Pinero as the foremost
British dramatist, and certainly no author
approached Sydney Grundy as an adaptor.
The latter had his first play produced in
1872. Pinero appeared on the scene five
years later, and was successful from the
start. Though his best work is obviously of
the past, his record of nearly 40 years will
take some beating. Has the British stage
ever had funnier or better-constructed farces
than “The Magistrate” or “Dandy Dick”?
Can it show any better-knit or more effective
drama than “The Second Mrs. Tanqueray” ?
Turning to Grundy’s work, has there ever
been a more perfect piece of adaptation into
English than “A Pair of Spectacles”? Could
“A Marriage of Convenience” have been bet-
ter done? And yet “Harrison O.” attempts to
belittle the “artificial technique” (whatever
that may be) of the Pinero and Grundy
school, and airily remarks that such play-
wrights can be “made” ! He would be doing
a real service to the drama if he would hand
round the recipe.
“Pomp and Circumstance”: When Pearce
gets into his stride again at the Defence
Department he might frame a regulation
prohibiting the use of Commonwealth troops
as an incidental in fancy-dress and bur-
lesque charity processions. It cheapens the
young army to allow it to be utilised by
showmen —even when the showmen are full
of good intentions. Because I had not read
my patriotic advertisements with sufficient
attention, I hurried along to see last week’s
carnival pageant, under the impression that
I was about to witness a shipload of soldiers
marching down to the water front to em-
bark. When I saw the familiar brown uni-
forms coming down the hill behind the circus
I wondered dazedly who had arranged the
send-off, and how many straws he had in
his hair. It never occurred to me that
Australian troops would be permitted to
parade with the Darktown Fire Brigade
and other old-established jests. Let the
circus showmen rake in all the money they
can and give them all the credit they want;
but the charitable actress in the motor-car
and the fancy-dress soldier on the cab-horse
should not go before the Army. The Army
is'a serious institution, like the High Court
and the Privy Council, and, if it is to pre-
serve its dignity, it must be kept apart from
open-air variety shows.
“Norbell”: At Brisbane on September 4,
‘ Ted” Holland, 52 years old, took his last
curtain call. He was one of the best-known
of real Australian vaudevillians. Away
back in the early ’Bo’s the “statue clog
dance” of .Delohery, Craydon and Holland
was a top-line, and remained so till the team
disbanded about 15 years ago. In point of
tact, its particular dancing act has never-
been excelled here. Delohery and Craydon
are still more or less in the business. For
the last 10 years Ted Holland ran the
leading vaudeville show in Brisbane, first
at the Theatre Royal, and latterly at the
house that Ted built —the Empire. He
was ever a popular manager. Ilis ghost
walked with commendable regularity whilst
he lived, and it should get a good rest now
that he is dead.
“L.11.P.”: Hugh Buckler’s announcement
that he will produce “Cymbeline” at the
Sydney Little' Theatre, on his return from
Maoriland, recalls how few times the Bard’s
drama has been done in Sydney. Miss Essie
Jenyns made a great hit as Imogen in the
late ’SO’s. Fanny Roberts, W. J. Holloway
and A. Greenaway were also in the cast.
When Louise Pomeroy produced “Cymbeline”
at Sydney Royal, in February, 18S2, the
piece was.billed by Mr. James Alison as “for
thevfirst time in Sydney.” The cast embraced
Jimmy Hasker as Cymbeline, Herbert Flem-
ming as Leonatus, John Musgrave as Beli-
sarius, Theo Hamilton as Jachamino (the
part_ which Irving took in the Lyceum pro-
duction of 1896), Harry Douglas as
Pisanio, Joe Tolano as Philario, and Harry
Leston as Cloten. Julia Merton was the
Queen, and stage-manager Hamilton made a
lot of the battle effects.
(Continued on page J/4-)
THE CONDESCENDING ACTRESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is extremely flattering for a man to know that
an actress condescends to be serious with him.
—Discovery by Sydney Sun (5/9/’l4).
Now, that explains why Clarence Guy,
And Percy Haw de Haw,
And all the Noodle family
Unto the stage girls draw.
But why the girls should condescend
To treat these simple gills
So serious, I apprehend,
Is, Noodle pays the bills!
N.S.W.
BILLY B.
THE HEAVILY DISGUISED FRIEND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
War is a tonic. In time of peace nations tend to
become slack. —Some literary optimist.
Your vilest foe is still your friend,
For lo! he keeps you fit;
So send him, please, before the end,
A vote of thanks for it.
When you have got him by the throat,
If you’re a gent, you should
Lean down and say, “I’ll make a note
That this has done me good!”
You owe some thanks to friends, of course,
But most to him who tries,
With foot, guns, aerocraft and horse,
To blow you to the skies.
So, with your sword-point at his breast,
Say, “Pass, Friend, if you must!
Accept my thanks —you did your best!”
Then —with a smile —the thrust!
N.S.W.
CONSTANT ASSASSIN.


a
NEW PANAMAS.
WE have just received our New Stock of Genuine
South American Panama Hats—-a beautiful
selection. Fitted with Black Silk Bands, and sweat-
proof leathers. Guaranteed not to crack. Brims
2i to inches. % e lr
Sizes 63 to 7f 15/0
Better Qualities 21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-,
We Pay Carriage. 50/- to 5 gns.
David Jones Ltd.,
Opp. O. P. 0— SYDNEY.
li
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
For the Children
there is no underwear so good as “Jason.
The beautiful si ky softness of “Jason prevents all irri-
tation even to the most sensitive skins. And the pure
all-Australasian-wool texture keeps ihebodyat normal
temperature, avoiding chills. With all Jason wear this
guarantee is given : ,
‘Any garment that shrinks will be replaced free of cost.
I'ou mill find ", Jason ” just as good .for your
own personal wear as for the children.
“Jason” Underwear is made in all styles and prices for nun,
ladies and children. Infants’ Pure White Wear in light and
medium weights. “Jason” Jers< ys for children wear splendidly
If your dealer does not stock “Jason” insist upon his getting
it for y< u.
In case of difficulty write -
JASON UNDERWEAR CO., Leicester, England.
Aa44 <l>
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
“The Religious Editor”: It’s the trifling
descriptive touches that help one to realise
the full horror of the European nightmare.
Take that item about the German artillery
missing the gasometer at Mons time and
again. Whoever connected gasometers with
war? Where will you find a battle picture
with a gasometer in it? And yet, when you
come to think it over, the gasometer is about
the most obvious lump of propputy a town
has about it, and the sort of thing a mis-
chievous artilleryman would love to hit. It
is to be hoped that the co. had not threatened
to raise the price of vapor on the local
patriots just prior to the outbreak of hos-
tilities. As a North Shore resident, 1
would, in similar circumstances, take great
pleasure in telephoning the correct range to
the enemy. Some of the bad smell that rs
piped to my house is only fit to make German
fireworks with.
* * * *
“Sam” McCaughey (pronounce it Makakky
with the accent on the “k’s”), M.L.G..
N.S.W. squatter-king, has beaten the Grown
in an attempt to make him pay £550 stamp
duty. Makakky is interested, amongst other
estates, in Dunlop, valued at £87,500; and
Toorale, valued at £22,500. lie had a
tluee-fifths interest in Dunlop and a four-
fifths interest in Toorale. Recently, the
other interests were bought out, and the two
allotments were added to McCaughey’s other
estates. The N.S.W. Stamp Commissioner
charged £550 on these transactions as con-
veyances, while Sam charged himself £1 on a
dissolution indenture. The Full Court found
for N.S.W., but the High Court has upheld
the squatter king’s appeal. So Makakky
keeps the wolf from the door a little while
,
The earth contains few more futile crea-
tures than the pious and hysterical United
States woman. And she is theatrical as well
as futile. One recent Sunday thousands and
thousands of her, dressed in black, marched
through'New York to the bang of muffled
drums as a protest against the war. _ New
York didn’t make this war, though it may
have made others. For purely business
reasons it would probably stop the thing if
it could. As it can’t do anything, these
women would have been better advised if
they had saved the price of the muffled
drums and the new black clothes, and econo-
mised the wear and tear of Alderman Mur-
phy’s highway, and sent a couple of nurses
to the front with the proceeds. It isn’t
recorded that Eve made a procession in her
fig-leaf all through Mesopotamia as a pro-
test against the war between Cain and Abel.
Eve was apparently a practical sort of
woman.
WHY NOT CALL THEM SMITH?
SMITH: “I say, Isaacs, these Russian blokes 'ave the funniest names, ain't they?
Michalovitch, Androvitch, Jackovitch, Stephanovilch."
ISAACS : “ That's so. You can't tell vitch is vitch."
UNSEEML Y.
PARSON (to insurance canvasser): “But, my friend, my life is insured with the
Lord above
CANVASSER: “ Well, how about afire pohcy?"
At Westport (M.L.) the other day the
miners refused to work on their weekly half-
holiday so as to assist the M.L. Government
in the effort it is making to build up a big
stock of high-grade steam coal for navy and
transport use. The miners, it is understood,
objected to working on Saturday afternoon
because it would debar them from witnessing
the football matches. One of these days,
when a warship rushes into a Maoriland port
for coal to enable it to catch a foreign
cruiser that is threatening Wellington, there
may not be any coal available. Tnen pro-
bably an infuriated populace will grab the
responsible persons and hang them above
sea-level by the neck. That is if the enemy
hasn’t done the hanging already. Another
thing that the miners of M.L. are exhorted
to remember is that when the enemy arrives
on the horizon and starts fighting he has a
confirmed habit of not taking Saturday after-
noon off. Usually he doesn’t even respect
the Sabbath, and he doesn’t care a conti-
nental for toeball.
* * * *
“0.C.C.”: Fred Brown’s “Tophet” series
has been outdone in at least ope instance,
and that instance right here iu Australia,
too! I was passing the Hotel Australia (an
heroic thing, I admit) when my attention
was attracted by a crowd of people formed
into a more-or-less-hollow square round
“Kodak’s” old friend, the German Band.
After a brief pause the deadly machine
burst into the throes of “The Marseillaise,”
much Teutonised, but still quite recognis-
able. After having rendered or sundered
Ilouget de Lisle’s inspiring music, the Band
paused, sighed heavily, and mournfully re-
garded the brisk and applausive crowd.
Meantime the Band’s collectors were doing
so well with the crowd that I thought it
strange that the Band didn’t look cheerful.
In fact, I mentioned that aspect of the
matter to the stout, red-faced Teuton who
carries an absurd flageolet or piccolo, or
wooden lielerwurst about 6|in. iong.
“Nein!” he said, wagging his head vigor-
ously ; “nein —dere ist noddings for to jeer
oop ourselfs. Ach Himmel! No-o-o! All
ze day ve vos blay der ‘Marseillaise,’ undt
der ‘Sons mit der Zee,’ undt der ‘R-rool
Britannia,’ undt ‘Der Yife on der Oceant
Vafe !’ Hein? Ja, ja, ‘Life on der Oceant
Vafe.’ Der beoples von’t noddings else haf
now, is it! Ve blay dose tarn song mit der
day all der time! TJndt our soldaten dey
vos killed peen py der blutty French undt
der Anglisch! Idt vos —ach! es unaus-
sprechlich ist!” As I left I heard the
German Band torturing “Sons of the Sea”
for the forty-ninth time that day. Truly,
thought I, “Kodak” is avenged and Fred
Brown justified of his cartoons.
“Dove” : It seems to me in my inexperience
that Germany’s bad time will come when sae
can no longer afford to squander men by
battalions. It may be possible to hurl or
shove a fairly fresh army straight into tne
lion’s cage and feed it to the bears; but
human nature has its limits and the time
may come when the mangled remnant will
invite its generals to improvise a less expen-
sive method of campaigning, or failing
that, to vacate headquarters and wade per-
sonally into the slaughter, or to declare peace.
Can the German improvise, or has he, as
many critics assert, to go on lighting to the
last gasp by Rule 7—-sub-section 4^. .
* * *
“Jeames” writes :
Randolph Bedford solemnly warns me off the late
Pope (Bulletin 3/9/’l4), and I cheerfully abide by
my old friend’s wishes, and refrain from claiming
Pius X. as my own. But one part of Randolph’s story
stirs me to protest, namely his naif pride in the fact
that he vigorously shook the Holy Father s hand
instead of kissing it. A big N.S.W. tradesman used
to make the same boast years ago. What he never
understood is that this ostentatious pump-handling
was not a manifestation of good old British pluck and
independence, but merely an example of rotten man-
ners. When I take off my hat in the street to the
barmaid whom I have got to know in the course of
business, it is a tribute not to her but to her sex.
When the soldier kneels to receha the colors of his
regiment he is not bowing the knee to the possibly
degraded notability who happens to have the handling
of the bunting. Ilis tribute is paid to the legiment
and to all its traditions. A soldier who salutes his
commanding officer is not abasing himself to the man,
but to the position in the army that the man stands
for. And so with a thousand other ceremonies, in-
cluding that of kissing the hand of a Pope. I have
never met a Pope, but as a little boy I once saw a
reception by'Cardinal Manning in London. About half
the people there were Protestants,-yet they all kissed
his ring. The attitude taken up by the Protestant,
with an elementary idea of decent behavior is that, if
he cannot conscientiously conform to the ordinaly
conditions in regard to meeting with Popes, Cardinals
and the like, he will shun their society. It is as safe
to smack a Pope on the back as it would be to sit
down in Paris during a war crisis while the Mai-
seillaise was being played—far safer, in fact
—but both feats would be uncouth. I have
seen sturdy British and other Protestants
laughing, talking, spitting and smoking during
Mass in French and Italian churches. Then-
gallant defiance of the customs of the religionists
present did not make me feel as though I were loov-
ing on at the vindication of Freedom. All I felt
was a desire to see them chucked into the street with
ignominy. Had I been in the Vatican while Ran-
dolph was clinging to the Pope’s hand ‘ like a diown
ing man” in the presence of the “irritable secretaiy
who didn't see the joke” I should have felt as I am
sure the secretary did.
A CURSORY RHYME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Christmas toys for Australia were ordered from
Germany in March to give time for manufacture. As
they are sent away from Germany in July and August
large quantities are on the water now in German
vessels that may never make port. —News item.
Sing a song of Christmas,
Looming up ahead ;
Sing a song of stockings
Hanging from each bee.;
Sing a song of sorrow,
Drone a dirge of pain,
Lilt a lay of imports
Brought across the main.
Sing a song of kiddies
Left without their toys ;
Sing a song of Christmas
Robbed of half its joys,
Just because old Santa
Cannot be on hand ;
He is busy scrapping
For the Faderland.
Sing a Freetrade ditty——
Hoch ! and Glory be ! '
Dolls, and spades, and soldiers,
Made in Germanee.
Sing a song of sovereigns
Emptied from our till,
Which are proving useful
Now to Kaiser Bill!
Meanwhile, sing a solo
Of a hopeful sort.
Inter-State Commission
Some day may report.
In that distant future
We can spend our quids
Buying home-made presents
For our kiddies’ kids!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


PURIFIED PETROLEUM AS A HEALING
REMEDY FOR DIGESTIVE DISORDERS.
The value of purified petroleum as a healing
remedy for digestive and bowel disorders is
now universally recognised. Unlike animal
or vegetable oils, petroleum passes through
the stomach unchanged, hence its soothing,
lubricating, disinfectant action is exercised
throughout the entire alimentary tract. To
obtain the best results from petroleum, it
should be adminis.ered in the form of an
emulsion. In this form, the petroleum is
broken up into minute globules which mingle
freely with the contents of the stomach
and are thus evenly distributed throughout
the digestive area, where the r soothing,
healing powers are exerted to the fullest
extent.
The original and standard preparation of
petroleum for internal use is Angier’s Emul-
sion, which has been largely employed by the I
medical profession ever sin:e 1892. The
petroleum in Angier’s Emulsion is purified by
a special process and combined with the
hypophosphites of lime and soda in the form
of a perfect Emulsion that is pleasant to the
palate and acceptable to the most delicate
stomach.
Apart from its soothing, healing properties
Angier’s Emulsion (because of the hypo-
phosphites which it contains) exerts a marked
tonic, invigorating influence, which makes it
of value in a wide variety of disorders. The
medical profession prescribe it extensively not
only for lung troubles and wasting diseases,
but even more largely for gastric catarrh,
gastric uicer, mucous colitis, nervous dys-
pepsia, chronic constipation and in many
obscure digestive and bowel disorders. Of all
chemists at 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
FOR HOT CLIMATES
—Cool Khaki Clothing.
Comfort and efficiency are both increased by the wearing of
cool Khaki Clothing in hot climates. The style illustrated is
ideal for summer.
The garments are hand-sewn by tailors in India, who pay
much attention to detail.
The material is a cool Khaki Cotton Drill —retentive of
color and durable in laundering.
Military Patrol Jacket, as illustrated 17/6
Khaki Drill Riding Trousers or Ordinary Trousers.. 12/6
These goods are ready-to-wear. Please state chest, waist
and inside leg measurements when ordering.
Patterns and Catalogue on request.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309=311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Port Moresby’s principal asset is its long-
range wireless station, at Konedobu, a mile or
so out of town, and Lieutenant-Governor
Murray has made it plain to the residents of
British Papua that things will have to be
sultry before the station is surrendered. On
August 10 he notified them that it was not
intended to give the station over to the enemy
even under threat of the bombardment of
the town ; that no attempt could be made to
protect the town against bombardment; that
there was danger of the food supply running
out; and that, as non-combatants could not
help but only hinder, they were requested to
make south aboard the steamer Matunga.
Those in necessitous circumstances were pro-
mised the cost of passage. (Later it was ascer-
tained that the enemy was too busy elsewhere
to have much time for bombarding Port
Moresby, so the inhabitants had a drink by
way of celebration. Some people have cast
reflections on the local drink, but it seemed
very good under the circumstances.)
* * * *
“F.H.”: Melbourne has a cheeseparing and
somewhat unpleasant habit of letting out its
public parks and reserves to “grazers,” by
this means partially paying for upkeep.
Fawltner Park, at the rear of the mansions
on St. Kilda-road, has for years been the
daily delight of dairy cows in large numbers.
Royal Park and Richmond Park are two
other large spaces suffering from the same
complaint, and there are cows and
horses in most places where there are
children at play. The Victorian
Assembly has a Public Reserves Bill
before it; but it has been left to the Labor
Opposition to declare that “the public is
fenced out of its own pleasure grounds to
make room for live stock,” while “Richmond
Park is a hosnital for wornout horses.”
Still, as the payment for “grazers” is a shil-
ling a week, it will readily be observed bv
the conservative mind that the horse and
cow have more right to the reserves than the
public.
* * * *
The biggest detail failure in the war is
that of the monstrous Zeppelin dirigible bal-
loons. Barring a demonstration at Antwerp
and a pursuit of the retiring British at Mons
they have done nothing that the aeroplanes
could not do. Curiously enough, nothing
has been heard of the French and British
dirigibles. France has several, and the Brit-
ish Government possesses at least one. The
trouble with the dirigible is that it has to
have a bag of gas about the size of a White
Star liner to keep it afloat, and human in-
genuity has discovered no means of prevent-
ing so vast an envelope leaking. The bigger
and more effective the dirigible the more it
leaks. Another myth that has apparently
been blown out is the story told of the
British War _ Office having purchased an
infallible flying torpedo from Professor
Langley, of the United States, with, which
to. destroy air craft of any sqrt. In fact,
this Avar, brief as it is, is full of failures and
surprises. Also it has produced some
strange dare-devils. The last of them was
the French airman who flew over Brussels
amid a storm of German bullets, and, after
dropping reassuring messages, amused him-
self by giving a demonstration of looping
the loop in the teeth of the German fire, and
then flew off unhurt. When an irritable set
of officers sees its enemy flying upside-down
aboveits head great fury must ensue.
OFF TO THE WAIT
JOHN HUSBANDMAN (tinder fire fior the 15th
time that day, to himself): “Things are
getting altogether too hot for ?ne here.
Guess the only way out of the trouble now
is for me to get away to the war. ”
Louis Waxman, the Melbourne bowls
champion, burst forth into war verse the
other day, and the Herald reported the case
in detail. Waxman, denouncing the tyrant
Kaiser, and weeping for the Belgians, was
not too bad a bard. He changed his metre
frequently, but his lieai't was always in
the right place. There was more warmth in
his appeal for subsci-iptions to the Pati-iotic
Fund than one would expect of a lawyer who
is addicted to bowls.
POINTS OF VIEW.
SHE: “You don't mean to tell me you con-
template buying that. I wouldn't stay in
the house with the hussy."
HE: “I assure you, my dear, competent
judges tell me it is the only decent picture
in the show."
“Snell” : Consider tlie war report how it
grows. Happened to be in a friend’s car in
Melbourne city when the news of the naval
scrap off Heligoland came through. The
cable said that four German boats had been
sunk, but that nothing British worth men-
tioning was submerged to any great extent.
We travelled south at a rate of about 2C“
miles per hour. At a St. Kilda hotel
where we stopped for refreshments we were
confidently informed that there had been a
great naval battle, and nine German ships
had been sent to Hell. There was another
pause for lubrication at Brighton, where we
received tidings of great joy—a fierce mari-
time engagement, 21 German warships sunk.
At Black Rock 30 German ships were
accounted for. At Mordialloc the whole
blooming German navy was pulverised. II
was useless to go farther, so we started
back and gathered up broken ships and
drowned Germans all the way.
“0.K.”: An enthusiastic priest, addressing
a meeting of the Catholic Total Abstinence
League in Melbourne the other day, said that
“the cure of intemperance denoted the
attainment of virtue” in the self-cured indi-
vidual. He somewhat discounted his asser-
tion by going on to say that “if the three
million abstainers in the Church of Eng-
land had behind them the power that
Catholics had there would be no limit to
the good work they could do,” but he seemed
to be over-rating the virtue of teetotalism,
all the same. Even a Catholic can sign
the ple.dge, and keep it, and still be virtue-
less in most other respects. One is reminded
of liow the late G. A. Sala, himself a thirsty
Catholic with a generous bottle nose, re-
ferred to the Australian larrikin of 30 years
ago as “a sober young ruffian —a strictly
temperate young blackguard.” Some of the
most successful burglars, bludgers and race-
course birds of prey don’t dream of putting
an enemy in their mouths to steal away their
wits. For purely business reasons they
never touch a drop. Whisky, in fact, is
about the only sin which is abhorred alike
by the just and the unjust. On the tem-
perance platform the truly worthy and the
truly wicked can sit down together and
shake hands. You see, sobriety is a virtue
in the abstract, but to be as sober as a Hindu
is not necessarily to be virtuous. The good
man who taketh to derrink in immoderation
is in a fair way to achieve damnation,
whereas the bad bloke who turneth away
from it doesn’t save his soul.
“Briner”: Simpsonshafen, chief German
Austral-Pacific port, has a grand harbor, with
narrow entrance, well defensible. Nice little
town. Government House on a hill behind.
Very fine pier, alleged to be better than
any other in the Pacific. Norddeutscher
Lloyds’ steamers have called every week.
Supply station for a number of inter-island
steamers. Naval station and repair depot
of cruisers. Workshops of the N.D. Lloyds,
with Chinese mechanics. Many Chinese,
chiefly employed as boat-builders, shipwrights
and fitters. A number of business places.
Private residences, generally of the bungalow
sort. Beautiful grounds and gardens, with
bamboo lattice-work fences. A fine hotel,
with abundant punkahs. The hills surround-
ing the town are not high, but the island is
in the earthquake belt. Many volcanoes,
quiet or smoking. Frequent earth tremors,
crater with ceaseless fumes of sul-
phurous lava. About 20 years ago a
volcanic peak near the harbor entrance
erupted, and transformed the whole
country face around, covering the island
a foot deep in ashes. Heinsheim and
Co., great merchants, are on a neighboring
island called Matapi. The eruption joined
this to the mainland. Ilemsheims supply
coal to the German navy. They have
wharves, workshops and depots. The Matapi
harbor, like Simpsonshafen, can easily be
defended. Many Chinese, with a Consul.
WHEN THE LOCAL MAN GETS
HIS CHANCE.
“ With this horrid war where are our Laris
frocks to come from ?”
“Ah, well, there's always the Chidley costume,
you know."
Apparently Defence Minister Millen isn’t
the only Australian who fancies the Kaiser’s
bloodthirsty eye is fixed on him. The other
evening, before retiring, a Richmond (Vic.)
woman was stepping outside to view the
moon or see if the Cross was still in its usual
place, when she observed her front door to
be on fire. It was a case that called for a
bucket of water and a little common sense,
but the lady merely murmured, “The Ger-
mans !” and shrieked lustily. While the
neighbors were extinguishing the flames a
casual stranger asked her if she had any
valuables in the house. She said she had
a little jewellery, and sprinted inside and
returned with a box containing some £GO
worth of trinkets, which she desired him
to “mind” for her. lie is still minding
them. The Kaiser hasn’t got them.
The most noticeable feature of the N. S.
Wales Patriotic Fund to date is the absence
from it of many of those names which the
community had every right to expect to see
there. Any man who knows Sydney can
point to hordes of rich people—spenders of
£4OOO or £5OOO per annum and upwards—
who have either given nothing at all, or who
have reluctantly weighed in with what would
correspond, in the case of a clerk or navvy,
to about 2d. One big institution gave more
or less generously to the fund with one
hand, but immediately took it all back with
the other by delivering the sack to some hun-
dreds of its employees. It would have been
more imperial, though less showy, to have
hung on to the subscription money and used
it to keep as many people as possible in
work. Anyone who requires an object-lesson
in the enormous number of people residing
in and around Sydney alone, to whom the
disbursement of £5OO or £lOOO means noth-
ing, has only to go to Randwick on a race
day and consider the number of private
motor-cars there and the splendor of them.
And that is without taking count of the
further thousands of these luxuries that
pervade the backblocks, and without reckon-
ing in the innumerable wealthy people who
don’t go in for cars. It is easy to stampede
the rich men of N. S. Wales on an issue of
flagrantly false Patriotism like the Dread-
nought Fund (into which four millionaires
dashed £lO,OOO each in as many minutes five
years ago), but when the Empire really
calls it is another matter. The Empire is
calling at the present time, louder, perhaps,
than it has done in its previous history. It
wants money, men, equipment, provisions,
horses—all the things, in brief, that it had
no great demand for in 1909. The response
from the people whose prosperity and future
freedom depends on the Allies holding then-
end up in the next few months has been
miserable, to put it mildly. Most of them
seem to think that the cause can be ade-
quately upheld by singing “God Save the
King” in a bar.
Dean Stephen, who
is about to be a bishop
in Tasmania, said
something worth not-
ing to the Vic.
Mothers’ Union the
other day. There were
300 maternal women
present, not all of
them expensiv ely
clothed, and the Dean
suggested that they
ought to consider
themselves assembled
and met together for
mutual improvement
purposes. “Those of
you who are well-to-
do have a good deal
to learn from poorer
mothers in regard to
the management of
your children,” said
the dear man. Then
he drew noon his personal
experiences for evidence in sup-
port of his allegation. “I have
often seen in luxurious homes
spoiled brats who were simply a
nuisance to themselves and
visitors. In small cottages I
often see thoroughly well-
trained and obedient children.”
The applause seemed to come
mainly from suburban matrons
of medium social tonnage.
Many of the more fashionable
mothers didn’t know, perhaps,
that the brightest, best-behaved
boys and girlies that ever cross
their thresholds come with a
basket of linen after school
hours. It is quite a common
thing for the small damsel who
brings the washing to have the
smile of Cinderella and the
manners of Red Riding Hood.
What has proved to be a prophetic cartoon
was published in the Royal Magazine
(London 1 early in 1912. A girl in the
national dress of Belgium was shown strug-
gling to hold a door against a burly German
soldier who was endeavoring to push his way
in. John Bull, in the background, was
represented as going hurriedly to the girl’s
assistance.


MOSTLY WAR.
Prwident Wilson has formally disan.
proved of the proposal of J. P. Moreau
and Co t° underwrite a loan of sevfiS
\Zu I TIr mrn dollars to Prance. The
Unite, l States being neutral, he considers
that loans, of the kind are permissible
only to neutral countries.—Cable.
milder
- Good bye,
Jirvi; Dcmt"~ 'forged'-fo
*ne sow>e colored
'ft'orrr Berlin.
cUinr7s
5.000.000 nien
under
lio|>cslo be in
Berlin
montS •
[News
A.vfsti'&lids - ■ Untie, S&tn -
ca.ll him \ Why, lies nobody's Unde ]«s r now.
Bill's ev/ ,
filler-
K*oser Biil -AcV
liber Himmel •
oj o| ?cwe<i
oyst Wndt’ So
easy I *
Vein > Y ' • f>
A present-' %r Hje. K^'5 e^
Jofic.
Germany would soon receive its ,
deserts. It was a nation built on blood
und Its present attitude was one of.
attempted dictatorship to the whole of .
Europe. Its base effrontery should be
promptly squelched, and Germany
should be sent into oblivion, only to be
remembered as an historical enrios.t,.
* . Vjc. Gov. Stanley.
*'natfe*'©f even Coverts ilioula
-forsv/ev C«.r»nA v > now.
H*sMouse: — 'ho nftKmo
—. 0 +. /t . »r)€SS ©filings, dovvHf»€yf
Ifte by«le ffaons weird Tn< SVne
old stew) ; "/Any ]>)ood in your
M 5 ? ? v ?{}£!£2i3Z*


[For the Bulletin.]
THE BEAR IS MARCHING ON.
( With the usual acknowledgments to the late E. A. Poe.)
HEAR the gathering of the bears. ,
Angered bears,
Pouring at the call of war from out their caves and I
lairs!
V How they amble, amble, amble.
In the icy Russian night!
While the scared stars madly scramble j
Down the skies from bears that gambol
With a horrible delight.
Hugging guns, guns, guns.
As a peaceful bear holds buns
While the furred and growling drummers beat the j
instrument that tears
All the bears, bears, bears. j
Bears, bears, bears
From the countless hiding-places of the bears.
• • •••• • ✓ • . .>.••• .
Hear the marching of the bears.
Eight million bears!
Filling Heaven’s vault with songs and military airs I
Through the list’ning German night
Lo! they spread a gory blight.
And the earth beneath them quakes
And seems to groan,
While a figure, swift and light.
Rushes on in wild affright!
Hear it moan !
And the uniform it wears—
See I upon the coat-tails it has many jagged tears
Made by bears!
Hostile bears
With a grievance ! All his hairs
Stand with terror
For his error
With the bears, bears, bears!
With the bears, bears, bears, bears.
Bears, bears, bears—
With the prowling, growling and revengeful bears !
fee the flowing sea of bears!
Tireless bears !
What a tide of vengeance! There is nothing that it
scares!
And the flying ghost of Might
Dare not stay its headlong flight
Tor one breath I
Close upon its heels comes pouring that tremendous
wave of wrath
With its bared fangs whitely gleaming like the racing
breaker’s froth.
Filling houses, fields and churches.
Climbing on all sorts of perches.
Searching cellar, room and steeple
For some panic-stricken people
Like a padding, red-tongued Death !
Oh, the bears, bears, bears.
Growling up and down the stairs
Of the doomed !
How they sniff and snarl and pad,
And, on finding nothing, bound along like mad I
But the Flying Terror knows
By the shuffling
And the scuffling
That the sea of armored toes
Will yet catch him unawares!
See him stagger!
Each claw-dagger
Now his craven gooseflesh tears!
So he casts away his weapons to escape the bounding
beat's!
Hear the bears, bears, bears, bears,
Bears, bears, bears—
There is nothing to be seen behind but bears f
ti Vw.
KODAK.
P/4\/lP,oVircrt LOWS bst


The New Suitings for Hot Climes
BRITISH MATERIALS—LEVIATHAN TAILORING.
JUST arrived-these lightweight, all-British Suitings lor Tropical wear. They’re grand.
Camel-hair and Mohair Yarns—every inch all wool, but light in weight (JOoz. to the
yard). There’s strength in every fibre, and plenty of sound wear too. They always
keep their shape and color.
Order your Suit by Post. Let the competent Leviathan Cutters an' Tailors give you
satisfaction. If they don’t we’ll refund your money. Write for patterns now. Use the Coupon.
TROPICAL SUITS to Order
£3/10/-, £3/17/6
SAC g TROUSERS to Order
£2(17/6, £3/5/-
THE LEVIATHAN
Corner Swanston and Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE.
COUPON
the leviathan,
Melbourne.
Please send patterns of Hie
in w Tropical Suitings, Self-
Measurement Forms, etc. I
would like to receive a per-
sonal letter from you showing
how to order by post and
explaining about your guaran-
tee of satisfaction or money
back.
NAME
ADDRESS
B'tin.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
A death happened last week which was
deeply regretted in The Bulletin office.
It was that of Mrs. Archibald, wife of J.
F. Archibald, the Old Chief who founded
this paper and ran it almost continuously
until the end of 1002. He retained a large
interest in it until the other day, when he
sold out to his fellow-shareholders, and de-
parted amid general good wishes. Mrs.
Archibald passed out at the comparatively
early age of 54 years. She was a kindly
lady who did much good in an unobtrusive
way. but resolutely avoided the limelight of
public charity and conspicuous advertise-
ment.
HORRIBLE THREAT.
ALGY: “Look here , Regina d , if yon continue
your blessed rudeness I’ll throw your stick
into the harbor."
An ancient Sydney identity passed out
recently at Mosinau, aged 85 years. This
was John Hawksford, who, half a century
ago, was the only spectacle maker in Syd-
ney. He established his business first in
Market-street and then in Pitt-street, near
the Congregational Church. Before lie
came, the blind or short-sighted person had
simply to buy a dog.
“Moana” : Curiously enough, the First Sea
Lord of the British Admiralty, the man
responsible to the Minister, the Government
and the nation for the efficiency and lighting
qualities of Britain’s whole fleet, is a Ger-
man. Louis of Battenberg is the son of
Alexander of Ilesse, and was born in Austria.
He married a grand-daughter of Victoria,
and his eldest son, George, is a sub-lieutenant
on Maoriland’s battleship, at present looking
for trouble in the North Sea.
“Melb” writes: —
We lose a eeadog in Captain Currie, who made
good on land, like McMeckan and W. H. Smith. He
went on the rolling deep at the age of 14. School-
mate of Premier James Service, with whom he ulti-
mately partnered as shipowner. Currie reached Hob-
son’s Bay in 1853 as an officer in the Sir W. Moles-
worth. from Glasgow. Went to the diggings, but
didn’t dig to much advantage, and went to sea again.
First shipmaster to land a cargo at Bangkok, Siam.
Did well in the rush of English trade which accom-
panied the U.S. Civil War. Firm established in
Melbourne of Boyd and Currie, and Currie owned
four ships. Firm of Currie and Co. since 1872.
Developed trade between Melbourne and India with
wooden sailing vessels, and put on the first steamer,
the Bucephalus. Others of his vessels were the
Clitus, Argus, Darius, Euryalus, Fortunatus, Gracchus,
llymettus, Honus and Janos. The Euryalus took
two contingents to South Africa. Currie Harbor and
Currie Point Lighthouse, on King Island, are named
after him. Did much for Victorian coast lighting.
Made big profits in the salvage line, and his skill
saved the Hereford and Lubra, both supposed to be
total wrecks. Active, as Chief Commissioner, in steer-
ing the Melbourne Savings Bank at the most critical
time. Then highly valuable as a director of the
Commercial Bank. Good on Pilot Board and 20 years
president of the Marine Board. Many other activities.
Always sought after
as a first-rate man.
SOLOMON, of Tasmania, in ail his glary.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” : A far-back Syd-
nev identity is recalled by the death of his
eldest son recently. Jonathan Howard, ot
Derby House, Glebe Point, was owner ot
line of ’buses known as “The Invincible.
They ran on all the suburban roads, and on
holidays did special trips from the Black
Bull, or White Horse, in George-street. In
the ’so’s the shortest trip cost sixpence. Aow
you could buy the whole old bus foi six
pence.
“0.C.C.” : The announcement that Rieci-
otti Garibaldi is anxious to form and lead
an Italian Legion from the United States,
in aid of the Triple Entente, recalls the
name of a rather ancient wanderer. Ricci-
otti, son of Giuseppe of that ilk, was in the
Austro-Italian trouble of 1866, which re-
sulted in Venice being wrested from the
Haps burgs, and in 1870 at the turning out
of the Papal Guard from Rome. In the
same year he and his brother decided to
assist the French in the last phase of the
Franco-German war. They joined the
Army of the Loire, under Clianzy, the one
superb general France produced during the
Downfall. So well did the young Garibaldi
perform that Clianzy promoted him to a
colonelcy, and, when the trouble was finished,
presented him with a beautiful sword of
honor. In the late ’7o’s Ricciotti sailed for
Australia, aud after various vicissitudes
came to anchor in a Government billet as a
clerk in the Vic. Education Department.
The colonel on a clerk’s screw ran into debt,
lie pawned, one by one, his various posses-
sions, and finally the sword of honor found
a resting-place at Uncle Allen’s (then) well-
known empawnium. Time flew swiftly,
bearing interest on his wings, and presently
Garibaldi, the colonel-clerk, was faced with
the prospect of losing his much-prized pos-
session for lack of the £l5 or £2O needed
to redeem it. Oil the next stool to Ric-
ciotti there was a young clerk who, later,
became famous as Australia’s brightest
pressman. He learned the nature of the
trouble and put the case to the other men
in the Department. In about half an hour
the money was “chipped in,” and, tactfully
securing the ticket on the. plea that “the
interest needed checking.” in a very short
time the good-hearted young Australian had
rescued the precious sword. Ricciotti never
learned habits of economy, but he never
again pawned Clianzy’s sword. . What the
old warrior’s son has been doing in the
United States I don’t know, but I will swear
that lie hasn’t been making money.
“Y” writes -
Heligoland, that speck in the North Sea where the
British and German fleets had their first noticeable
brush, was once a British dependency, and its transfer
to Germany, in exchange for a scrap of Africa, pio-
voked intense anger. Australians used to hear a lot
about the little island, owing to some of the big
island's early public men being closely associated with
it. Rear-Admiral Hindmarsh, first Governor of South
Australia, spent 17 years as Governor of Heligoland.
One of his daughters married George Milner Stephen,
a barrister, before coming to Australia. The Stephen
family accompanied Hindmarsh, and George became,
in turn, Acting-Governor and Colonial Secretary of
South Australia. Further, he became widely known
in all the States. He professed in his later years to
be a faith-healer and miracle-worker. He was brother
of Alfred Stephen, Chief Justice and Lieutenant-
Governor of N. S. Wales, and father of Harold W. H.
Stephen, the Australian politician and litterateur of
years ago. George used to declare that his happiest
days were spent on the rocky eminence of Heligoland.
Rev. Dr. Everard Digges La Touche has
given up seeking the bubble reputation at
the Bible’s mouth, and preaching against
Irish Home Rule (for the present), and
goes to fight as a private. The La
Touches are Huguenots, who settled in
Ireland after the revocation of the Edict ot
Nantes. The Le Froys, some of whom have
reached Australia, are of the same order, and
also settled in Ireland. For years
the La Touches carried on a private
banking business in Dublin, the head
of which was William Digges La
Touche. Another of the firm, David
C. La Touche, was Colonel of the
City of Dublin Militia. A son of W. D. La
Touche is a Lt.-Governor in India. Mem-
bers of the family are to be found in all
the learned professions. The banking busi-
ness was given up about 40 years ago.
“Solomon Malaprop” about the late mili-
tary lamented :
A multitude of dead ghosts—not very long dead
cither —must be wandering round the battlefields of
Europe these days and wishing they were alive.
Owing to a fairly long interval of peace the com-
manders of to-day are mostly untried men so far as
lig warfare is concerned. But—to go no farther
back than my own recollections —there was a herd of
wars, and they produced many men whose spectres
will be very sorry they are in the cemetery. There
weie Chanzy in France and Concha in Spain—about
the greatest of the lot; also Serrano and Moriones ;
Grant and Sherman and Lee and Jackson, in the
United States; Moltke in Germany; Skobeloff in
Russia ; Garibaldi; Osman Pasha. They all got their
chances, but not very big chances. Now that com-
paratively raw soldiers are on deck in the Scrap
of Ages the goblins of the old men who died a little
too soon are feeling mad.
What wouldn’t Skobeloff’s spectre pay for the
opportunity of leading the Russian army to-day? It
was reported that he was poisoned because he was
altogether too big. Chanzy, who once —so it is
alleged—thought of becoming a monk, and Moltke,
the clean-shaved miser who is said to have labori-
ously done his best friend out of one bob, would
probably give all the absent money in the pockets of
their intangibleness to command the French and
German armies once more. And Osman would sell
the misty semblance of his fez to Mephistopheles for a
decent Belgian fortress to command. Doubtless he
has bored the cherubim to death by explaining that
he held a mud village for half a year against stupen-
dous odds, and that he deserved a better place to
hold.
Grant was a retired or broken warrior who became
a clerk in a country store. He came back at the
time of the Civil War, and rose to be commander-
in-chief and President, and finished as an insolvent
banker. Moriones was an unlettered exciseman
turned soldier. Serrano was a gorgeous, befeathered
creature, who is said to have had two queens as his
mistresses. Jackson was a snufflebuster like Osman,
though they snuffled in different faiths and different
languages. They were a mixed lot, but they were
good fighting men. If they are allowed one tooth
among them they must gnash it considerably because
they passed out during the long interval when things
were flat in the shooting industry.
THE WAR: ENTER A PROCESSION
OF THREE.
The death of Mrs. Julia Levy, widow of
L. W. Levy, ex-M.L.C., in her 89th year,
deletes one more old N.S.W. identity. She
was a picturesque and familiar figure driv-
ing about Sydney, and was supposed to be
the richest woman in the State after Mrs.
W. R. Hall. Also she was one of the most
charitable.
“Trotter” gives him a kindly send-off: —
R. L. Jefferson died at Menzies’ Hotel, Melbourne,
on August 81. About the most distinguished motor-
man. A leading racing cyclist from 1886 to 1892.
In 1894 he cycled the whole landward stretch from
London to Constantinople, and took the first bicycle
into the city of Constantine. The Sultan Abdul
the Damned said he would never allow another.
In 1895 he made the longest distance record, London
to Moscow and back (5000 miles) in 49 days. Pre-
vious record by Terront, a Frenchman: Petro-
grad to Paris, 2000 miles in 21 days. In 1896
Jefferson broke records with a ride never attempted
since: London to Irkutsk, 10,000 miles. Parsed over
fearful steppes, or deserts. One stretch of 1200 miles
without habitation. Guided by the telegraph lines he
had to carry food and water for several days. In
1897, attracted by rumors of gold, he became elected
a member of the London Geographical Society for
penetrating Northern Mongolia. Jn 1898, with Ins
cycle, he emulated Burnaby’s horseback ride to Khiva
in 1873. After that, he took up motoring. Intro-
dueed the first car
in Constantinople
after a trip from
the British Chan-
nel. Sultan refused
to let him enter,
but gave way on
the British Ambas-
sador’s protest.
Next, he did the
whole Grand Trunk
road of India—
Peshawur to Cal-
cutta. Explored
India, Burmah,
Straits Settlements,
.lava, Siam, Ceylon.
Then establr bed a
record by driving
from Durban to
Johannesburg, over
th e Drakensberg
Mountains. Beat the
previous record by
two days between
Johannesburg a n d
Capetown, 1500
miles, doing it in
nine days. Toured
Canada, from Mon-
treal to the Pacific,
and much of South
America. After life's
petrol fever he rests
well.
HARRISTER
ARTHUR , [?]
Melbourne.
Popes are mostly very old men when
they attain to the glory of the tiara, but
Benedict XV., who succeeds Pius X. (killed
by the war), is less than 60 years of age.
He only attained to the rank of Archbishop
seven years ago, and to that of Cardinal two
or three months ago, so his rise w r as amaz-
ingly rapid when it started. He may he
briefly defined as a kindly and very learned
clergyman with spectacles.
Dick Pearse, the new Mayor of Ballarat
(Vic.), has undertaken to sin against his
temperance principles by stocking the
mayoral cupboard with a full Amiiety of
drinks” during his term of the chain of
office. For 57 years the tongue of Pearse
has never touched snirituous liquor, and as
a total abstainer he gives his predecessor
(Cr. Brokenshire) credit for having kept
soft drinks only
in the cupboard
aforesaid. Never-
theless his mayoral
feelings compel him
to break the mono-
tony of Broken-
shire’s teetotalism.
He feels that “he
couldn’t call _ him-
self a man if he
didn’t keep an open
cupboard as re-
gards choice of
drinks.” Which
sounds rough on
the previous tee-
totaller. What does
brother Pearse call
Brokensliire? Was
he a girl or an umbrella?
Died in Melbourne last week an aged Mrs.
Smith, who claimed to have planted the first
oak tree in Victoria in 1850. Her fathei
was a parson, the Rev. M llliam Carter. O
his arrival in Melbourne in 1850 he was
appointed vicar of a church at Coburg, an
in the vicarage garden his 14-year-ol
daughter popped the acorn she had brougn
with her from England for luck. She was
a better patriot than the person who planted
the first rabbit.
DEAR HEAD SO GREEN. —A POEM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His memory and his noble face and reverend
crown of snow will be a green spot and indelibly
written in our minds while life lasts.
—Methodist Recorder obituary.
Oh, reverend crown of snow
Which kept his head so cool,
And did not melt, that it might grow
Green in the Sunday-school.
The snow that grew so green
Upon his holy head,
Within our minds it may be seen
Till life itself is fled.
Verdant his baldy spot;
His hair, once snowy white,
The world, so parched and hot,
Found it a new delight.
His hair was white as snow,
He bravely bore his cross,
And grace came to him here below
So that his head grew moss.
And in the chancel dim,
When grace unto him came,
The hair that grew on top of him
Was a green oriflamme.
Oil, would that he were yet
Alive and here about;
Green hair upon him sot
Is fine in time of drought.
Oh, let us live like him
In the cathedral close ;
And in the chancel dim
Shine with a fervent nose.
Write in our minds this green
licmembranee of our loss —
Ilis snowy head was seen
To grow a gracious moss.
N.S.W.
MARTIN LUTHER.


3%
fit
V'J
my
.
i\
ill
v 7
y* II
HI
i
ir-mm*
m
-
m
i
P
, * ' ,5 i -
‘v-':
at
m
mm .is
IftflaSSS
mm
THE
PIPE
OF PEACE AND QUALITY
I
400
ve ry P'P e ® uar arne e j
m
LMN


SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
Clarence Street, Sydney
Sole Australian
Representatives
for
Coventry Chain S Bet-i-grip Brake Lining
.. . STOCKS CARRIED.
BUCYRUiS CO # Milwaukee
Steam Shovels, Drag Line Excavators.
Sole A gen to WILLIAM ADAMS CSk, COMPANY LIMITED.
Sydney. Melbourne, Brisbane.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
The Union Bank cf Australia
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves,
i; v v £
Auir., ’05.. 100,767 10 p.c.= 75,000 10,000 1,098,270
lob., ’06.. 100,879 10 ~ „ 75,000 10,000 1,114,155
A lie., 'OO.. 152,251 14 ~ ~ 105,000 10,000 1,151,406
Feb ’O7 227,904 14 ~ ~ 105,000 70,000 1,204,310
Alls'.', ’07.! 146,560 14 „ ~ 105,000 10,000 1,235,870
Feb., ’OB.. 145,188 14 „ ~ 105,000 10,000 1,266,058
Aug'., ’OB.. 136,386 14 ~ ~ 105,000 10,000 1,287,444
Feb., ’09.. 135,562 14 ~ „ 105,000 10,000 1,308,006
Aug'., ’09.. 135,873 14 ~ ~ 105,000 10,000 1,328,879
Feb., ’lO.. 136,049 14 ~ ~ 105,000 1(7,000 1,349,928
Aug'., ’lO.. 141,454 14,., ~ 105,000 15,000 1,371,382
Feb., ’ll.. 135,807 14 „ ~ 105,000 10,000 1,392,189
Aug., ’ll.. 135,321 14 „ „ 105,000 10,000 1,412,510
Feb., ’12.. 145,257 14 ~ ~ 105,000 10,000 1,442,767
Aug., ’12.. 155,582 14 ~ ~ 105,000 1,493,349
Feb., ’13.. 155,654 14 ~ „ 105,000 —• 1,544,003
Aug., ’13.. 135,424 14 ~ „ 105,000 1,574,427
Premiums on new shares, £400,000. . 1,974,427
Feb., ’14.. 171,083 14 p.C.= 140,000 2,005,510
Many changes have happened in the world
since February 28, and the figures as at that
date are not of much value except for the
purpose of showing what a splendid posi-
tion the Union is in to meet the troubles
that followed in the wake of William’s bomb.
Indeed •William could scarcely have timed it
better, even if he had been specially inter-
ested in causing this solid old institution the
least possible discomfort. For after resisting
the temptation to increase the capital during
all the years since the Oldest Inhabitant was
middle-aged, the directors, during the term
under review, got in £500,000. 0f new capital
and £400,000 of premium capital. Moreover
at that time conditions were so prosperous in
England (where most of the shares are held)
and in Australia that it looks as though very
few of the shareholders had to get an over-
draft with which to pay for the new stock.
At any rate, advances increased during the
half-year by only £095,353, and that was
much more than justified by an increase of
deposits amounting to £2,203,944. Further-
more a conservative policy in the matter of
advances had been pursued for a long while
past. The Union has a big pastoral connec-
tion, and pastoral results have been so gilt-
edged that comparatively little assistance has
perhaps been asked for from that class of
client. Thus one way and another, the bank
held on February 28 no less than £12,770,974
of liquid assets, as compared with deposits
and ail other liabilities amounting to
£25,430.159. This meant that the Union had
just over 50 p.c. liquid assets in hand, an
unusually fine proportion, and all the finer
because on account of its splendid reputation
a large proportion of the deposits may be
regarded as being almost as firmly fixed as if
they were interminable capital.. This excel-
lent showing must be as gratifying to clients
as to shareholders. In particular that bor-
rowing client is nowadays specially favored
whose banker is in such a position that he
can see his customer through the hard times
that are probably ahead of us. Present cir-
cumstances illustrate once more the great
wisdom of maintaining liquid a large propor-
tion of the public’s money.
The next table shows the movement of the
principal items in the accounts: —
Liabilities.
Feb., 1909. Feb., 1914.
Notes .. £440,176 £183,408 Dec. £.256,768
Dills . . 1,409,778 1,714,216 Inc. 304,438
Deposits .. 19,879','569 23,538,534 Inc. 3,658,965
Assets, A.
Liquid assets 10,230,046 12,770,974 Inc. 2,540,92 S
Advances . . 13,872,594 16,306,478 Inc. 2,433,884
Premises . . 562,762 504,215 Dec. 58,547
The last item is worth special note. Though
very large additions have, been made to pre-
mises during the past 10 years the amount
at which they stand in the books has during
that period been reduced from £697,704 to
£504,215. This, no doubt, illustrates the
policy 7 which has been maintained; wher-
ever possible internal or contingency reserves
appear to have been established. It is just
at such a time as the present that such a
policy bears its best crop of fruit. In actual
earnings this and other banks should be able
to make almost as much as they have been
doing lately. What they lose in the profitable
exchange business they no doubt almost make
good through the high rates available in
London for short-call money. But losses on
old business are almost bound to fall in, and
these hidden contingency accounts are invalu-
able in making good the losses. For the pre-
sent certainly there is no reason to expect
that losses even on old business will be at all
tremendous. It is all a question of being able
to hang on and see the thing through. And
fortunately this, in common with most other
Australian banks, has, by a succession of
phenomenal seasons, been put into a position
where it can do that better it seems than ever
it could do before.
Winch combe, Carson, Ltd. (Sydney),
pastoral property and products salesmen
(the deficit to start with consisted of good-
will less reserves transferred from the old
co.)
Towards Do
•Tunc, Profits. Dividends. Reserves ficit.
1910 . . £81,729
1911 ..£20,214 6 p.c. =£11,212 £9002 22,727
1912 .. 17,893 6 ~ „ 12,345 5548 17,179
1913 .. 17,834 6 „ 12,345 5480 11.690
1914 .. 21,100 6 „ ~ 12,345 8755 2,935
Last year's wool clip was not only a very
heavy one but prices for that and every other
pastoral product were exceptionally good.
This, of course, meant that the selling
brokers’ commission earnings were excep-
tionally goid, too. As a result, tins co.
■a-t last shows profits a little in excess of the
average for the five years prior to the issue
of the prospectus. It is true that the co. has
had £lOO.OOO of extra capital, so that the
increased profits are nothing remarkable.
On the other' hand, it. lias to be noted that
the new money has gone into freehold stores
and other premises. These include large
accommodation for the business which has
but lately been established in Brisbane, and
no doubt both there and in Sydney the
accommodation is in excess of immediate ie-
quirements. In any case, a high return tioui
capital invested in such high-class freeholds
cannot reasonably be looked for. Generally
speaking, apart altogether from the improved
profits, the co.’s figures are more _ satisfac-
tory. Liabilities certainly have increased
from to £106,228, but the bulk of
this money is represented by additions to the
freeholds before mentioned. These properties
have increased in book value from £120,516
to £142,78-1. At the same time advances
have been reduced from £147,739 to £145,095,
and that is particularly satisfactory because
it is in this i'tem that the co.’s biggest risk
lies. Advances against produce sent for sale
may be right enough, -but on past experience
advances on stock and .pastoral property are
likely every few years to wear a nasty sting
in their tail. The .mily- pther change of note
in the accounts is amiudrease in the holding
of shares in unspecified companies from
£5586 to £12.341. The outlook is by no
means as bright as it might be. Wool sales
have been suspended on account of the war,
and when they resume it is pretty certain
that the demand will not be very keen.
Nearly five-seveutlis of Australia’s clip goes
to the continent of Europe, either direct or
in the shape of tops and otherwise from
England, and there will be a lot of conti-
nental mills that won’t he wanting much
raw material for a long while to come. The
shrinkage in price will mean reduced com-
mission. On top of that is the unquestion-
able drought in many parts of . south-eastern
and middle Australia. Luckily tins co. s
margin of profit in excess of the dividend is
pretty wide, so that it will he able to. face a
considerable shrinkage without calling on
shareholders to make any great sacrifice.
* * * *
Tooiieys, Ltd., of the Standard Brewery,
Sydney:—-
Net To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Jan, '07.. 11,528 ,5 p.c. = 10,000 1,528 12,575
July, '07..13,471 5 „ „ 10,000 3,471 0,104
Re-
serves.
Jan., 'OB.. 19,964 5 „ „ 10,000 9,964 860
July, ’08..13,977 5 „ „ 10,000 3,977 4,837
Jail., ’O9 ..18,796 5 ~ ~ 10,000 8,796 13,633
July, ’09..17,545 5 ~ „ 10,000 7,545 21,178
Jan., ’10..19.911 5 „ „ 10,000 9,911 31,089
July, ’10..20,025 6 „ „ 12,000 8,025 39,114
Jan. ’11..22,756 C „ ~ 12,000 10,756 49,870
July’, ’ll . .20,398 0 „ „ 12,000 8,398 58,268
Jan., ’12.. 26,867 7 „ „ 14,000 12,867 71,135
July, ’l2 . .24,086 7 „ ~ 14,000 10,086 81,221
Jan., ’l3 . .27,750 7 „ „ 14,000 13,750 94,971
July, ’13..23,487 7 „ ~ 14,000 9,487 104,458
Jail., ’14..33,120 8 „ „ 16,000 17,120 121,578
July, ’14.. 27,360 8 „ „ 16,000 11,360 132,938
After its early sickness this co.’s recovery
appears to have been very. thorough. In a
way. no doubt, the enemies of the trade
have helped, and are still helping it. During
the last few years of the phenomenal loan
prosperity of N.S.W. almost every enter-
prise showing large profits lias been subject
to new competition. The beer trade, how-
ever, thanks to the efforts of the anti-liquor
party, has been a notable exception. No
large section of the public would dream of
putting money into new breweries, and by
absorption and otherwise the number of
beer-foundries Ims actually been reduced. It
is much the same with hotels. True, many
of them have been closed, but each succes-
'sive closure has put additional value on. to
the remnant. Meantime the habit of filling
’em up again lias steadily grown as wages
boards, etc., have put up tlie wage earnings.
After the two Tooheys had turned the
business over to the present co. drought and
distress hit the State. The co.. felt it so badly
that the vendors;. returned and cancelled
50,000 £1 shares, and the balance of 500.000
£1 were .written down to 16s. This
practically wiped out the goodwill item,. be-
sides allowing for 'pretty severe writing-
down of general assets.. Notwithstanding
the subsequent reUim of a . sparkling head
to the eo.’’s. pint-pol, the directors kept a
tight rein 6n dividends. During the past
three years, although tie distribution has
been gradually put up to, S p.c.. only 54 p.c.
of the disclosed profit has been turned into
shareholders’ pockets. The other 46 p.c.
has been either written off or made avail-
able for visible reserves. The latter now
total £132.938. And this is after writing
off goodwill entirely. In other words, not
only is the present capital intact and in
tangible assets, but there are also tangible
assets to represent all of the 4s. per share
written off the existing shares. This is
assuming that the assets are not over-valued.
And they should not be. after the severe
writing down in the dull times of a few
years ago.
The published accounts are, as usual,
pretty bare, but from such information as
is available the following comparison is
derived :
Julv, Jan., July,
1909. 1914. 1914.
Liabilities, less cash .. £49,851 £74,572 £87,980
Breweries, hotels and plant 341,494 392,764 413,175
Stocks 59,836 85,666 78,322
Book debts 105,197 161,220 172,921
Gross profits on brewings, etc. 44,371 83,750 77,035
Rent and interest . . . . 7.257 9,011 9,021
Management, wages and
charges .. .. .. 31,084 54,641 53,696
The financial position is thus easy. Con-
sidering the turnover, the liabilities, less
cash, are very moderate ; the co.’s own book
debts exceed them by about double. In
view of the difficulty of extracting money
in these times the management would, no
doubt, be uiuch more comfortable if it bad
less than £172,921 outstanding. There may
be considerable losses in this item (perhaps
to some extent covered by inner reserves),
and there is also bound to be a very con-
siderable shrinkage in profits from current
business, partly the result of scarcer money
for have-another purposes, partly the result
of higher prices for materials. In these
circumstances shareholders will find parti-
cular joy in noting the big margin there has
been lately between profits made and profits
divided.
* ■ • X- * *
The Austral Hat Mills, Ltd. (Mel-
bourne), which began with a deficit of £273,
representing preliminary exes.: —
Dividends. Writ-
f X N ten Re-
June, Profits. Pref. Ord. Off. serves
£££ £ £
1908 .. 2282 7 p.c. = 224 10 p.c. = 95 437 1251
1909 .. 1012 7 „ „ 1190 34 „ „ 175 174 1324
1910 . . 2559 7 ~ „ 1190 10 „ „ 500 269 1924
1911 .. 2678 74 „ „ 1275 104 „ „ 525 412 2390
Premiums on new shares, £BOO . . 3190
On all shares.
1912 .. 5019 9 p.c. =£2201 999 5009
1913 . . 4460 9 ~ „ 2700 1018 5751
1914 . . 968 4 ~ ~ 1200 318 5201
“The disappointing result is mainly due to
the complete absence of the ladies’ hat
trade, in consequence of an unexpected
change in fashions, and also a slacken-
ing off in general trade.... attributable
to unfavorable weather conditions,” say
the directors. And, unfortunately, changes
in ladies’ fashions and wet weather
are liable to happen at any time; and the
fact that the combination can drag the pro-
fits down by nearly £3500 in 12 months
doesn’t make the outlook very cheerful for
shareholders. In addition to that the co.
has several other handicaps, which could be
remedied, but not. unfortunately, by the co,
itself. In the first place it has always had
to contend with a very inadequate. Protec-
tion ; and secondly, under the conditions of
labor which rule in the hat trade, the supply
of apprentices is very limited, and the co.
finds that skilled labor is,, in consequence,
by no means plentiful. This, of course, also
plays into the hands of the foreign trader.
When some of our politicians can be per-
suaded to remedy these faults, the trade
should look up very considerably. What-
ever other effect the. present European dis-
turbance will have, it looks as though Aus-
tralian industries will benefit, sooner or
later. If the present wave of patriotism
lasts, the Australian wlio takes off his made-
in-Italy hat to think bcfpre lie puts his hand
into the pocket of his made-in-Germany coat
for a £lOOO cheque for the Patriotic Fund,
might even come round to the right way of
thinking. In which case he would decide that
he might just as well buy Australian hats
and tweeds and keep the money in Aus-
tralia instead of helping to maintain Kaiser
Wilhelm’s army.
The Austral Co.’s capital is only £30,000,
and there are liabilities of £1512. Against
that are plant and property, £12,179, stock,
£21,617, and other assets (all liquid), £2BlB.
So, as far as the financial position is con-
cerned, the co. is well situated. Fortunately
for it at the present time, a few years ago
the 17,000 7 p.c. cumulative pref. shares
were placed on the same basis as the ordi-
naries, so now that the co. has struck a bad
year it can cut down the rate to 4 p.c. with-
out accumulating arrears.
The Mei.roukne Hydraulic Power Co. :
Reserves
Added (including
to Re- Sinking
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. Fund).
1902 .. £12,005 10 p.c'. = £9753 £2252 £26,252
New share premiums . . 114 26,366
1903 .. 12,233 9 p.c. = 9450 2783 29,149
1904 . . 11,540 8 „ „ 8400 3140 32,289
1906 . .1, 11,678 8 „ 8400 3278 35,567
1900 .. ' 11,736 8 „ „ 8400 3336 38,903
£26,250; being one-fourth'of capital,-returned 12,653
1907 . . 11,403 S' p.c. = 7350 4058 16,711
1908 . . 9,944 8 „ „ 6300 3644 20,355
Assets further, written down, £10,806 . . 9,549
1909 .. 9,600 8 p.c. = 6300 3300 12,915
1910 . . 10,193 , 8 „ „ 0300 3893 16,808
1911 .. 8,739 8 „ „ 6300 2439 19,247
1912 . . 10,405 . 8 ~ „ 0300 4105 23,352
1913 . . 11,724 8 „ „ 6300 5424 23,770
Further £26,260 of capital returned 2,520
1914 .. 8,072 ; 8 p.c. = 5250 3422 5,948'
The co.’s concession runs till 1925 —another
11 years-—and for the return of the capital
within that period, the co. “is liaid at it build-
ing up a sinking fund. So far, £52,500, one-
half of the original capital, has been re-
turned. Whether the next £52,500 will be as
easilv repaid depends to a pretty large extent
on the effect that electrical competition has
on the co.’s figures. This table shows that
there has been a gradual shrinkage:—
Gross Available
Trading for Depreciation
Revenue. Expenses, and Profit, etc.
1900 .. £21,670 £Bl4O £13,530
1905 . . 20,770 8714 12,056
1906 . . 20,827 8869 11,958
1907 . . 20,087 8940 11,747
1908 .. 20,358 9000 11,352
1909 . . 19,771 9041 10,730
1910 . . 19,247 8950 10,291
1911 . . 19,578 8658 10,922
1912 .. 20,375 9293 11,082
1913 .. 20,010 9101 10,909
1914 .. 20,119 9023 '10,496
Higher expenses are of course responsible for
a lot, and no doubt the co. is spending a little,
extra to keep off the big competitor. With the
exception of a small amount in property, the
sinking fund is invested in public securities,
averaging about 4 p.c., so that when £26,250
of it is returned to shareholders, the drop in
the interest receipts is considerable. On the
other hand, the usual 8 p.c. dividend will now
call for only £4200, whereas before the dis-
tribution it required £6300; so that there
should now be a larger margin to lay by.
With 11 years to run, and £52,500 of capital
to repay, a yearly £3500 will be quite suffi-
cient for depreciation and sinking fund. So
that the co. needs only to make a profit of
about £SOOO to cover everything. And unless
the before-mentioned electrical competition
comes along with a rush during the remain-
der of the Hydraulic Co.’s life, the co. should
easily make this, and have a little to spare.
The Launceston Gas Co....(Tasmania) :
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- 11c-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, 1906. '. 1134 4 p.c.= 1050 84 7,545
Dec., 1906.. 1550 4 „ „ 1050 500 8,045
June, 1907.. 1143 4 „,. 1050 309 7,829
Dec., 1907.. 1743 4 „ „ 1050 800 7,722
June, 1908.. 1590 4 ~ „ 1050 200 340 8,062
Dec., 1908.. 1561 4 ~ ~ 1050 250 261 8,323
June, 1909.. 1769 4 „ „ 1050 200 519 8,842
Dec., 1909.. 1520 4 ~ ~ 1062 200 258 9,100
June, 1910.. 1318 4 „ „ 1062 300 9,056
Dec. 1910. . 1377 4 „,, 1050 200 127 9,183
June, 1911.. 1471 4 „ „ 1050 300 121 9,304
Dec., 1911.. 1564 4 ~ „ 1050 200 314 9,618
June, 1912.. 1496 4 „ „ 1050 300 146 9,764
Dec 1912.. 1543 4 ~ ~ 1050 400 93 9,85<
June, 1913.. 1312 4 „ „ 1050 200 62 9,919
Dec. 1913.. 1640 4 „ „ 1050 450 140 10,059
June, 1914.. 1385 4 ~ ~ 1050 200 135 10,194
Thus does the Socialistic Tiger sit on the
chest of Private Enterprise and supervise the
process of gradual starvation. The trouble is
that Launceston is less sleepy than the rest
of Tasmania, and some time ago even went to
the extent of supplying itself with a munici-
pal electric light plant, no doubt becaus”
there was, close handy, a cheap source of
power-supply—the sort that would have been
available for the Federal capital if it had
been at Dalgety instead of Dryberra. Tin;-!,
combined with the fact that the municipal
concern isn’t out after dividends, has cut the
gas co.’s profits down very considerably. And
to make matters less cheerful for shareholders
there are £34,200 of debentures. Altogether
liabilities amount to £36,035, against assets
(apart from plant, buildings, etc. ) of £14,729 ;
in other words, there are £21,300 of liabilities
in excess of liquid assets. Five years ago
to meet £35,892 of liabilities there were
£16,337 of liquid assets—£22,sss less than
the liabilities. And an improvement of £1255
in five years isn’t a very brilliant perform-
ance. And the future doesn’t seem the least
bit more hopeful.
4c 4
Broken Hill South Silver Mining Co. :
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
June, 1906.. £67,535 £60,000 £7,488 £106,0)6
Dec., 1906.. 99,976 60,000 18,975 127,017
June, 1907.. 103,381 80,000 9,492 140,906
Dec., 1907.. 73,350 70,000 10,000 134,256
June, 1908.. 15,497 20,000 491 129,262
Dec., 1908.. 51,016 Nil 10,693 169,585
June, 1909.. 46,795 40,00.0- 10,742 165,638
Dec., 1909.. 47,980 40,000 100,000 73,618
June, 1910., 42,624 20,000 5,166 91,076
Dec., 1910. . 72,427 60,000 5,081 98,422
June, 1911.. 77,665 60,000 5,087 111,000
Dec., 1911.. 128,134 90,000 5,301 143,833
June, 1912.. 141,639 120,000 5,684 159,788
Dec., 1912.. 217,776 170,000 5,809 201,755
June, 1913.. 119,936 160,000 5,698 155,993
Dec., 1913.. 177,091 140,000 5,561 187,523
June, 1914.. 146,756 140,000 5,597 188,682
This co. sells its output delivered at Broken
Hill —the lead concentrates mostly for ex-
port to countries which have lately been
shooting us with them; its zinc tailings to
the two big local treatment works. Before
it did anything at all with its zinc-bearing
tailings it had accumulated a mountain of
them, which it sold to the Zinc Corporation
on a profit-sharing basis. For current pro-
duction it last half-year received, or
credited itself with, £314,301. And from
the sale of tailings resulting from old mill-
ing. £34,794. The total of £349,095 does
not, however, represent anything like the
value of the metals. Yet within a week of
the outbreak of war in Europe this magni-
ficent source of national wealth, so profitable
to the owners that it 'gave them £140,000 in
dividends within the last six months, was
shut down, and even now is only working
half-heartedly on the half-time system. The
curse of it is that the co., notwithstanding
its splendid resources, has not provided it-
self with any plant for the production of
metal. Way back in the Dark Ages it did
have some sort of a silver-lead smelter at
Broken Hill, but this was abandoned over
20 years ago. Since then the co. has been
a mere hewer of wood and drawer -of water.
It has not got even a zinc flotation plant
to secure an intermediate product. From
this point of view, the co. may be held up
a« the shocking example of sordid, money-
grubbing unpatriotism. Of course it will
not now be permitted to continue on these
lines. If it has not itself seen the error of
its ways the- Commonwealth will have to
open its eyes with the lever of an export
duty on crudes, or something of that sort.
The next table shows ore treated and divi-
dends paid : —• ,
Ore Treated. Divs. paid.
June, 1907 . . . . 100,385 tons £BO,OOO
Dee., 1907 . . . . 110,715 ~ 70,000
June, 1908 . . . ■ 78,003 „ 20 1^°
Dee., 1908 .. .. J 11,967 „ M
June, 1909 .. .. 137,839 „ 10,000
Dec., 1909 .. .. 167,265 „ 40,000
June, 1910 .. . . 13-2,968 „ 20,000
Dee., 1910 .. .. 179,216 „. 60,000
June, 1911 .. .. 175,044 „ 60,000
Dec., 1911 .. 181,790 „ 90,000
•Tune, 1912 .. .. 165.532 „ 120,000
Dee., 1912 .. .. 180.080 „ 170,000
June, 1913 .. .. 151,742 „ 160,00
Dec.. 1913 .. .. 168,95/ „ lli'nnn
June, 1914 .. .. 172,330 „ 140,000
Total .. ■■ 2,213,833 tons £1,210,000
In the past half-year the profit per ton of
ore, including old tailings sold, was unusu-
ally high on account of the exceptional
market for lead and the very fair :maike s
for silver and zinc. A period ot ij > ral )
probably gives a very proper basis tor esti-
mating normal market conditions. voing
on the figures for such a term, and assum-
ing that the company paid away all ] t
afford to pay, it will be seen that the. simie-
liolders have in 71 years averaged Us. J •
per ton of ore. No - estimate of ore is o
put forward. Six months ago mana ß ei
Wainwright said that the quantity actuam
measured up above the 1170 ft. was .4
tons. Since then drives at the l-i Oft. k
have been in progress, and there is -
assurance of the ore carrying down ■ *
main shaft has been sunk to below U99it.
and preparations made for new levels
1370 ft. and 1470 ft. Even without ieckon
ing on any ore below 11 < oft. tj^ie.
£1.800.000 of profit in the mine, assunung
that the ore will give as much to


The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
(“THE M.L.C.”)
Assets Exceed £8,750,000
Annual Income Exceeds ... £1,400,000
The Company is prepared to consider
applications for
MORTGAGE LOANS
on
FARMING AND GRAZING LANDS.
BEST*WAY
to ensure
when ordering; Conveyor
Belting', Hose, Packings,
etc., is to specify
DUNLOP
MINING & ENGINEERING i
GOODS
You can then rely on LONG
SERVICE.
TENDERS and SAMPLES SUBMITTED.
220 page Catalogue on application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO..
Melbourne, Sydney,
Adelaide. Perth, Brisbane.
Wellington, Christchmch^
til
Your first aid for move profit is “Pioneer” leather
behind on every drive in your factory. Every foot
of “Pioneer” is made from the centre cut of a flaw-
less Australian ox hide that is tanned in our own
tannery, and subsequently built up with host
materials and workmanship in the big “Pioneer”
factory. “Pioneer” leather belting runs slacker than
any other belting, and' this means greater power
conveyance with less strain on shafting and friction
on bearings. Put your power problems up to us —we
shall be glad to write you personally-—ask our nearest
office. “Pioneer” leather belting is made only by J. (J.
Ludowici & Son Ltd., “Pioneer” Works, 117 York
Street, Sydney (opp. Q. V. Markets). Sold in Vic-
toria by Geo. Russell P’t’y, Ltd., Flinders Street,
Melbourne; South Australia, .J. McKell, Timpson
Street, Port Adelaide; Queensland, Queensland
Machinery Co. Ltd., Brisbane; W. Australia, Horace
Summers, Howard Street, Perth; Broken Ilill, Geo.
C. Dempster, Argent Street.*
* * * *
C. A. Parsons & Co. Ltd., Ncwcastle-on-Tyne, are
now making their geared turbines whereby the
Parsons’ Steam Turbine may he geared to a slow-
running dynamo, pump, etc. Sets up to 4000 k.w.
are already running, and a large geared turbo pump-
ing set is shortly arriving for the Metropolitan Board
of Water Supply and Sewerage, Sydney. High,
efficiency is secured and the economy of the high-
speed turbine is still maintained. The Union
steamer Maheno has recently been re-engined and fitted
with geared turbines, and numerous other boats are
now running. Sole agents. William Adams and Com-
pany Limited, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and
Perth.*
* * * *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Yjc. ) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. Sd. per
evb. yard slacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. ]()d. — a saving of 2s. Sd.
per cnb. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow lGin. x 9in. Patent Stoneerusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [2
Extract from Tiik Review, London, December 5,
1913 : —“Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Limited.—The progress of the Society is clearly
demonstrated in figures. Though it cannot he con-
sidered an old company, in comparison with many of
its competitors—it was instituted in 1873—-the
amount of business secured, and the resources built
up, proves that those who have served the company'
have done their duty most faithfully and well.”* I .">
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is manufactured for vari-
ous purposes. For sewerage and hydraulic mining and
dredging there is a special form of pipe with the
staves at the bottom extra thick, to provide for the
greater wear likely to occur there. Catalogue from
the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., 57 York Street,
Sydney, head office. Contractors to all State
Governments. *
* * * *
Mr. R. O’Hara, Glen limes, writes: “I have much
pleasure in advising you that 1 have now used the
3-J-b.h.p. Hornsby Stationary Oil Engine for till l
past eight seasons, shearing over 130,000 sheep, some
of the shearers tallying over 200 sheep per day, the
average . 168$ per man. During the whole time I
have had the engine in use it has never given the
slightest trouble, and not a moment has been lost,
the shearers stating that they have never experienced
such a smooth-running engine.”—R. Hornsby & Sons,
Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane.* fl
J. Mai.colm Newman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlercagh
Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Tn addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast Iron Pipes, Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Pro-
prietary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of.
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo.
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.*
* * * *
Mine managers when requiring new Steam Boilers
are invited to communicate with Babcock & Wilcox,
Ltd., who have supplied their Patent Safety Water-
tube Boilers to the majority of leading mines in
Australia.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Com.lsox A- Co.. 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for in-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * * .
Assayers, Mine Managers and Proscectors write
to H. B. SILBERRERG and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun's
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1 13000 grain ; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain: weight; pocket transits: gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles: chemicals: etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting; Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
holders as the average of that extracted dur-
ing the past 7i years. There are 200.000
shares, so this will mean £9 per share. Cer-
tainly, as remarked just now, the ore for
several years past has been supplemented
by drafts made on the old tailings dumps,
but those dumps are still far from ex-
hausted. At the end of the half-year there
were 900.147 tons on hand (sold to the
Zinc Corporation on (lie before-mentioned
profit-sharing basis). Moreover, there are
.'•78,243 tons of slimes. These latter, which
have been accumulating ever since the first
mill started, are only now to bo turned into
money. The plants for this purpose are
under construction. It is too early yet to
say what the profit will he, but it has been
estimated at £1 per ton. Finally, there are
net liquid assets amounting to £202,459.
Taking all these items into account things
will have to be very bad indeed during the
next 10 years if the dividends do not reach
the figure just now worked out.
The result will be assisted by the quality
of the ore in the bottom levels. The follow-
ing shows the average value for the half-
year of all ore mined and that taken from
the 1170 ft.:—
Lead. Silver. Zinc.
All ore (172,330 tons) .. 16.2 pc. 6.90 z. 13.8 p.c.
1170 ft. (20,386 tons) .. 15.5 p.c. G.4oz. 13.9 p.c.
This indicates that the ore is getting no
worse as if goes down, and there appears
to be no appreciable decline in its milling
qualities. The extraction represented by
the silver-lead concentrates was 75.4 p.c. of
the lead in the original ore, 53.3 p.c. of the
silver and S.G p.c. of the zinc. Practically
all the rest is in the zinc tailings. A small
quantity (10.439 tons) which were used for
filling depleted stopes contained the negli-
gible balance. This business of refilling the
stopes is one of very great importance, and
costs a lot of money. Last half-year it ran
to IO.Sd. per ton of ore mined, independent
of the cost of work incidental to the opera-
tion. Taking it all round, the co. may be
pretty safely said to own now the greatest
mine in Australia, and there is certainly
no other silver-lead-zinc proposition in any
other country to equal it.
* * * *
Bendigo Gas Go. (Victoria) :
Writ-
ten To l!o- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
.0 £ £ £ £
•Tune, ’OO.. 2563 12 n.e. - 2520 112 18,978
Dec., ’06.. 3271 12 „ ~ 2520 -- 751 19,729
dune, ’07.. 2534 12 ~ ~ 2520 14 19,743
Dec., ’07.. 2576 12 ~ ~ 2520 200 19,599
dime, 'OB.. 2609 12 ~ ~ 2520 210 19,478
Dec., ’OB.. 2424 12 ~ ~ 2520 19,382
dune, ’09.. 2752 12 ~ ~ 2520 192 40 19,422
Dec., ’09.. 2523 12 ~ ~ 2520 251 19,174
dune, TO.. 2636 12 ~ ~ 2520 50 66 19,240
Dec., TO.. 2973 12 ~ ~ 2520 50 403 19,643
dune, ’ll.. 2530 12 ~ ~ 2520 232 19,421
Dec., ’ll.. 2396 10 „ „ 2100 50 246 19,667
dune, ’12.. 2168 10 ~ ~ 2100 50 18 19,685
Dee., ’12.. 2433 10 ~ ~ 2100 50 283 19,908
dune, T 3.. 1974 Nil 50 1924 21,892
Dec., T 3. . 2350 8 p.e. = 1680 50 620 22,512
June, T 4.. 2529 8 „ „ 1680 100 749 23,261
The _ small Australian gas companies, and
particularly those which had the custom of
a whole town to themselves, had been on
such a good wicket that in time they per-
suaded themselves they were there for good,
and that there never could be such a thing
as competition. And so most of them got
into the habit of paying away practically
every penny of profit they earned, and let-
ting the reserves look after themselves. And
when competition, in the shape of electric
light, did happen along, there was weeping
and wailing and gnashing of the gasometer.
In the case of the Bendigo co. the share-
holder got so accustomed to receiving the
fat dividend that even after the competitor
came they kept on with it, with the result
that in six out of the 11 half-years between
June, 190 G, and June, 1911, the reserves
were drawn upon to pay the dividend, and
consequently grew from £18,978 to only
£19,421. Now, though the dividend has
been cut down, the position is not parti-
cularly brilliant: —
June, ’O9. Dec., T 3. June, T 4.
Assets apai-t from plant
and meters .. ..£9510 £11,410 £11,830
Liabilities . . . . 949 3,647 3,644
Surplus .. ..£8561 £7,763 £8,186
Thus, since 1909, in order to pay its divi-
dend and provide for renewals, etc., the co.
has had to cut into its surplus of liquid
assets. And more than that, gas sales have de-
creased during the five years from £SGO4 to
£5401, so that whatever amounts have been
siient on renewals have not had any great
beneficial effect. But the co. isn’t altogether
to be blamed. While the absurd habit of
rushing to Sydney and Melbourne lasts
more-or-less up-country towns will have as
much chance of flourishing as the biblical
seeds that fell on the road.
* * * »
A return from the Under-Secretary of
Mines (N.S.W.) shows a total production of
£•">,523,540 for six months to June 30, 1914.
Zinc concentrates (283,459 tons), £803,832;
silver-lead concentrates, etc. (215,970 tons).
£907.023; copper 110.060 tons), £598 470;
tin (1042 tons), £204,187; coal (3,127,250
tons), £1,081,382. Compared with the
first half of 1913 the shipments of coal
increased bv 393,312 tons. Silver-lead and
zinc concentrates also show a large increase.
The silver exported from N.S.W. in the
form of ingots and matte totalled 1 ,855,4930 z.,
value £151,468. The most gratifying feature
in the return is the continued expansion of
the coal trade. It is very uncertain when
payment will he made for the £.803,882 worth
of zinc ore—most of which has been shipped
to Belgium and Germany.
Ernest Rutherford and other scientists
took great interest in the radium works at
Woolwich, on the Parramatta River
(N.S.W.). Concentrates are being smelted,
and salt cake is being used in recovering
the uranium and radium. At present there
are some 85 milligrams of radium bromide
under test. The disturbed condition of
Austria will limit the supply from that
source. The Austrian Government owns a
big supply of pitchblende (which 's an
impure oxide of uranium mixed with other
minerals), hut recently uranium ore has been
obtained in U.S.A., England, Australia and
other places, in some instances in the form
of pitchblende, but more frequently as carno-
tite. This, in S.A., is subjected to a con-
centrating process.
The Central Zinc Co. (England), formed
to treat zinc concentrates exported by the
Sulphide Corporation from Broken Ilill,
put through 0870 tons of concentrates in
12 months to March 31 of this year, for
3461 tons of spelter, 25 tons of blue zinc
powder, and 52 tons of lead. The profit
was only £927, which is excused by the in-
creased cost of fuel and labor. An extrac-
tion averaging about 35 units of pure zinc
from concentrates containing 46 p.c. of the
metal is middling, but it should be noticed
that over 60 p.c. of the weight hauled at
great expense to the other side of the globe
is worthless, for apparently the Central
Zinc Co. doesn’t manufacture sulphuric
acid. Spelter may not be very profitable,
but the freight alone for 12 months runs
into a big cheque. It is well known that
one of the zinc smelteries in Belgium works
on a co-operative system, and at some of the
U.S.A. works the men receive a bonus in
proportion to the zinc recovered. Why not
a co-operative system of treating zinc ore in
Australia?
* # * #
The secretary of the New Burragorang
silver-mine (N.S.W.) reports receiving a
cheque for £548 10s.. the proceeds of 26A
tons of ore. Ore worth over £2O per ton is
certainly good, and this little concern has
been lucky in marketing so much high-grade
ore before the slump in silver and the sus-
pension of ore buying. Generally sneaking,
the Burragorang ore averages from 20 p.c. to
30 p.c. lead, so a very large proportion of
£2O per ton must be represented by silver.
Some time ago this little field, which is
remotely situated among sandstone and
conglomerate hills, had produced 5,380,7990 z.
of silver from 53,667 tons of ore. The most
cheerful statement in the report is that there
is a credit balance instead of the former
dreary old debt.
* 4 * #
At the meeting of New Salak South
(Malay) in Melbourne, the chairman and
legal manager came into conflict at an early
stage, and so varied were subsequent pro-
ceedings that the real object of the gathering
was obscured, and when it finally broke up
there was still a lot to learn. All the
shareholders learned was that the position
at the mine was anything but satisfactory.
The chairman promises to give some inform-
ation at a special meeting-he intends to call.
Despite many changes on the Board there
has always been friction between the
legal manager and the directors. Two of
(he earlier mine managers! R. T. ITagger
(who successfully launched the Trong pro-
perty a few months ago), and his successor,
Thurston Evans, retired in disgust after short
hut strenuous terms. When a Board ignores
the manager’s recommendations, and the legal
manager endeavors to usurp the functions of
the directors, it is about time shareholders
made a clean sweep of both Board and office.
Apparently chaos reigns at the mine, and
recent optimistic reports had but poor found-
ations.
* * * *
Old John Cock, of Chiltern Valley (Vic-
toria). still sticks to it. If, at 70. he feels a
bit weary he takes a week off, and then
resumes bucking up Chiltern Valley into a
decent alluvial working organisation. To
date he has been opening up his mine from
an intermediate level, off which he has test. 1
a block 500 ft. square and got an average
return of an ounce ner fathom out of his
drives, a return which established the show
as a remunerative mine. When John Cock
starts out in that strain something may he
expected. This time he wants more cash to
enable him to complete the laying out of the
claim by pushing ahead with his lower level.
And it seems pretty certain that he will get
it.
New Langi Bogan. Ararat (Vic.), re-
mains more or less waterlogged because there
isn’t enough life in the Mines Department
officials to make the sitters north and south
drive under the gutter and pump. Of course
if the New Langi Board won’t raise Cain
on the subject, like Drysdale Brown did when
he was at the Charlotte Dlains, the co. must
continue to draw on shareholders’ pockets
The drain on capital has been so steadv that
the calling power has run out. and new
arrangements must be made. These will give
the Board the right to call up another 10s.
per share. But the man who has the cash
ought to make chairman Harry Dodds see
Drysdale Brown with a view to shaking up
the idlers on the gutter, including cos. in
which Dodd’s choicest friends are interested.
Meanwhile underground New Langi is con-
necting workings with the old shaft sunk by
Maldonites 25 years back. When that work
is done men in the rises will have a chance
to get out of the water line if a burst comes.
Bill Toole expects, now that he has this back
door open, to get out some bulk prospects
before long. Whether these will sweeten the
tempers of the weary crowd that wait round
secretary Mackay’s office for news will de-
pend on whether William’s wash-up goes the
2oz. expected.
* * * *
North-east Victoria is likely to produce
gold when dredges and Drysdale Brown are
ancient myths. About a hundred reeling
shows were worked about Yaekandandah in
the early days. The shoots were rich, but
short, and petered out more or less sud-
denly. The Homeward Bound was one of
the exceptions—and was worked profitably
for many years, having a large ore body.
At 400 ft. work was suspended for various
reasons, principally want of cash to develop
the mine. Then a tunnel was started to
bisect the auriferous line, and various com-
panies sank £lO,OOO in this venture. Over
a year ago the reef was struck, and it is
now looking a very decent show. The little
test battery for the past two weeks averaged
Sdwt. per ton on 122 tons, and the residues
are worth 3dwt. There are 300 ft. of backs,
and on the old mine’s figures there should
be at least 30,000 tons overhead. The lode
channel has been explored 140 ft. At pre-
sent the north face is sft. wide, and crushed
13dwt. per ton, and extra values are antici-
pated in this direction. The reef in the
south stope is 13ft. v/ide of “payable dirt.’’
to quote manager John Porter, erstwhile of
Bong Tunnel, Walhalla. The scrip will be
listed on Melbourne Exchange when that
sorrowing institution removes the crape from
its hat and resumes business, at the old
address.
* * # *
The Big Hill Central G. M. Co., Stawell
(Vic.), which is working the leases for-
merly operated by Wilkinson and Co., has
opened up tin* big deposits which were
known to exist before, but were unavail-
able owing to lack of capital for develop-
ment work. Although only from 50ft. to
150 ft. from the surface, a good deal of
initial work was necessary before the ore
could be profitably exploited, and the new
co. is now in a position to commence a
crushing campaign on very promising bodies
of low-grade but easily mined and treated
ore. As the stuff is good crushing material
and above the sulphide zone and the bulk
of the gold fine, the matter is primarily a
cyaniding proposition, and the results ob-
tained by the former owners have proved
that outside of mechanical troubles there is
practically nothing at present deleterious
to the process. On present appearances
Big Hill looks capable of putting some life
into the mining industry at Stawell. more
so as enormous bodies of similar ore are
thought to lie between the present .workings
and the Magdala end of the Big Hill.
* * * *
Wastage worries Black Range (W.A.)
so much that the co. has gone on the hunt
for another new mine, besides closing down
on dividends for the time being. Co. would
have carried on all right had good stone cut
in the shaft, but the shoot is short and
shading off in values both south and north.
This sends the management along the north
crosscourse to see if the lode makes beyond
that fault and carries more than a color.
It took 17,000 tons to get £33,430 of mine
products last half-year. Of that sum, mine
work required £18,546, and £OOOO was
mopped up for plant and development, so
that little was left. But the co. has a handy
reserve and a pretty fat banking account.
The Board’s new fancy, the Binnacles at
Cue. is about the sixth Westralian show the
co. has tried. Price won’t be excessive, for
the cash to be put up is £5OOO. with an
accompanying wad of 7500 shares, leaving
the Black Range people to cut up 72,500
shares —that is. if things turn out nicely
under the long working option that has
been secured.
As Edna May’s (W.A.) August return
was gold and bullion valued at £11,400,
obtained from the treatment of 2387 tons,
the Board pa vs another 3s. div. with ease,
and carries forward the surplus, of which
£2OOO is being earmarked for pumps. These
are wanted to help keep the water under in
the bottom crosscut. This is still- in hard
stuff, which the crowd names schist, but
which the road-metal experts near by call
granite.
* * * «
Charters Towers mines are no longer able
to get their concentrates smelted, so the ore
is put through the old-fashioned grinding
process with Berdan pans, which is slightly
less remunerative than smelting. Brilliant
Block crushed 326 tons for an average of
£3 os. per ton. and expects to obtain better
returns as the stopes are risen on above No.
4 level. Brilliant Deeps cleaned up 393 tons
for £1367, with some concentrates on hand.
This mine is averaging about £4 per ton,
which should give a profit, for there isn’t
much development doing at present. Clark’s
mine continues to open up well, and its
average of £9 6s. 9d. from 102 tons
of stone, most of which was obtained
while developing the reef, is very
encouraging. But there are 180,000
shares, and on that lot dividends from a nar-
row vein will be rather slow. Locally the
sinking of the New Queen Central shaft for
the Bonnie Dundee shoot is attracting a good
deal of attention. The Bonnie paid 3s. 6d.
per share in dividends some years since from
the patchy shoot of stone that the New Queen
Central is now chasing after.
* * * *
The Oaks gold mine (North Queensland)
hasn’t been a brilliant success so far, but it
has now got a new battery and gas engine,
and is considering the purchase of a retort —
presumably to produce charcoal —when funds'
are available. Manager Simpson is now in
charge and hopes to make a small profit
out of low-grade surface ore when water is
procurable. The crushing of 615 tons during
the half-year returned only 1420 z. gold. Calls
are payable on the whole of the share issue,
and another shilling will probably have to
be demanded. Debenture interest amounted
to £247, and there is talk of offering holders
£lO worth of paid up shares in exchange for
£5 worth of debentures. Some co-operative
parties on this field are making a living by
quarrying low-grade ore. The Daks 00. must
either follow suit or prospect for a rich
leader.
* * V if
General-manager Milieu, of Mount Bischoff
(Tas.). recently told the half-yearly meeting
that a new discovery of tin had been mad#
at the white face, which is a massive body
of decomposed porphyry carrying tin. The
practical view is that while Bischoff can
extract an average of 101 b. of black tin
from its ore at a cost of ss. it will be able
to produce black tin at Od. per lb., or £5(5 per
ton, which is low compared with the recent
boom prices for tin oxide, but not when com-
pared with the value of tin oxide for the
past 20 years, when -the tin scratcher has
frequently been willing to sell his tin oxide
for less than £56 per ton. Fortunately for
Bischoff the local miners are willing to make
an arrangement with the co., and the latest'
is that the workers are to take 75 p.e. of
the tin and the co. the balance. Dividends
must depend on the price of the metal. The
confidence with which some of the dredging
cos. are storing tin oxide is a good sign.


Heelings
Est 1818.
Co
op
er?
en
m .
heering
MERRY BR®
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
TEN YEARS OLD.
BUCHANAN’S
Black White
«
A GRAND SPIRIT
“Black & White’’is indeed a “grand spirit.
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, September 7, 1914.
My Deau A it 1 x;.
Governor Strickland, with Help Wake-
man at his heels, mounted the Town Hall
platform to declare the Flower Show well
and truly laid out —I mean open. The tall
jTullen lady, Mrs. Tom Hughes, Mrs. David
(who had nobly risen from a bed of bron-
chitis for the occasion), organising-seeretary
Grace Burrows, Botanic-Gardens director
Maiden, with the Horticultural cheel
in front of the active service helpers, and
lion, treasurer M. Tange (in her best hat
and a cute, black tailor-made) hovered round
the sub-regal speech. Pretty Lottie Gilbert
(not long back from a trip to Britain), a
firm ally of the Girls’ Realm struggle, took
a meek position behind the Admiralty lady’s
raven millinery. But the charity matinee
in Her Majesty’s had lured the crowd into
I’itt-street, and only a thin sprinkling of
cash meandered amongst the pot plants.
Mrs. Ellis Rowan’s way with bush flowers
was seen in some exquisite china-painting in
a trade exhibit at the show. In the profes-
sional class —one of the numerous sub-sec-
tions, and keep off the grass if you please—
a huge basket of native flora, tossed together
by Miss Willson, -was one of the events of
this display of untamed blooms. First prize,
of course.
Queer, torpid-looking vegetation, labelled
“aquatic plants” for the herd, and horribly
disguised in Latin nomenclature for one per
cent, of the public, were exhibited by Mr.
J. Staer (Blackheath) and Mr. Finckh
(Mosman), and beautifully housed in glass
cubes. Another oddity in vegetation trav-
elled all the way from Ingham, North
Queensland, to the show. This was a wild
bit of tropic nature torn from the jungle, in
the shape of a forked limb covered with a
remarkable orchid family and its poor rela-
tions. Mrs. Warren, who plucked this
exhibit from some native fastness, was men-
tioned in the prize list. If you want to
address these orchids in a high-class style,
you call them “Epiphyte,” but they don’t
say a word in reply.
Mrs. Arthur Fisher, a recent bride from
cur northern hubbubs (she was Miss Katie
Palmer a week or two ago), plunged into
competitive sections in the Girls’ Flower
Show, to distract her thoughts from the Big
Fight, for which her groom has buckled on
his coat of khaki mail. She got away with
two first prizes in an exhibition of floral
trophies.
lone Bennett, a Wahroonga girl, who was
handed first prize for her water-color studies
of wild flowers, makes a far better attempt
to reproduce our bush blossoms than many
artists of mature experience. Onr Austra-
lian wildlings have a shy way of hanging-
down their heads or falling into stiff lines
like wooden soldiers, when they’re picked,
and the knobby little pink rose —which lone
painted with an understanding brush —is
generally a horrid little nuisance as an
artist’s model.
Money has been rolling all over the place
for the last week or so. The British Scien-
tists frequently gave twopence —the usual
London tea-room tip—in our restaurants,
and great wrns the splash thereof. A few
belated Blue Socks, left over from the recent
invasion, were fed at the Girls’ Wild Flower
Show the other afternoon by a Sydney hostess.
After the lions departed, one of the Girls’
Realm damsels —who all gave their services
for nothing in every department—found two
coppers. This treasure had been thought-
fully secreted —as a tip—by one of the hairy
men, under his plate. The Guild has not
yet decided whether it will put this sum
away for a rainy day or blue it in a duty
stamp.
Fierce controversy raged round the judges’
decision re the decorated dinner-table sec-
tion. Some of these tables were frankly
horrible, and belonged to the antimacassar
era. Lakes of looking-glass, submerged in a
forest of very wild flowers, hung with fancy
trimmings, left a small area of cloth. On
this, presumably, the diners (also very wild)
would have to perch the roast or boiled, while
the generally-useless girl poured the gravy
down their backs. These decorations failed,
by chance, to catch anything but a few
Town Hall flies. The prize winner, a table
strewn with tulle and dotted with a stiff
helping of boronia, roused the wrath of
various competitors, as not up to the stan-
dard of its adjacent rivals. Miss Harriet
Dumolo’s arrangement of our bush hlooms
looked like a winner, but you never can go
by appearances, and anything in the shape
of a tame fern disqualified an exhibit.
Miss E. M. Brace, and the youthful M.
Grant Cooper, are highly commended for
working in the sweat of their individual
brows at the Girls’ Flower Hally. When
last heard of, on Saturday night, Miss
Brace was staggering under the weight of
trestles which she personally removed from
the main body of our Town Barn to some
outer fastness. The clearing up of the
premises by midnight, by the female volun-
teers, was a feat of muscle not' unworthy
of Olympian games.
The Wattle Day tree-planting proceeded
pleasantly enough on the terraced heights
of the new Zoo at Athol Gardens. Undis-
turbed by the tramp of city boots, Dundry,
the elephant (grandson of llathi, about
whom Rudyard Kippled), paced his stock-
ade, and flung out the trunk that Breathed
o'er Eden at stray callers. He belonged to
the Zoo authorities when he was "cutting his
tusks as a baby of three or so. Then he
accepted an engagement at Wirths’ Circus.
Now, re-bought by his old owners, he flicks
his long eyelashes behind a huge logged
enclosure —his temporary home ;at Athol.
A few wicked-looking monkeys are already
in residence in the Zoo that’s going to be
as like a jungle retreat as money; can make
it —some day. A macaw mutters impreca-
tions on intruders from a perch on the
Athol Heights; otherwise, a few ponds, and
some turfed lawn represent most 'of the Zoo
improvements to date. I might add a men-
tion of a tolerable path that bites its way
round the shady hillside.
Wattle planting and vigorous spade work
accounted for about 200 young plants. Mr.
Le Seoul’, the Zoo director ; Dr. It. H. Todd,
one of the trustees; R. Hoyle, M.L.A.; Direc-
tor Maiden, of Botanic Gardens note; Mrs.
Agnes Kettlewell, lion. sec. of the N.S.W.
Wattle Brigade; the entomological Froggat
and his wife, and scores of other enthusiasts
burrowed holes in the light, loamy soil, and
stuck in sticks to mark their prowess as
tree-planters. Barring the fact that an
elderly dame, overcome by the climb, fainted
on tire lions’ promenade-that-is : to-be and
was eventually restored to a perpendicular
position, nothing of a medical nature hap-
pened. The visitors, much exhilarated by
their horticultural efforts, got away with a
reasonable amount of zoological soil under
their finger nails. f
The matinee that pushed about £2OOO into
the local Patriotic Fund filled Her Majesty’s
Theatre to the skylights. Bulldog Barry
dozed in his old stand at the door to catch
an" loose cash left over from - the attacks
of lady pirates (Mrs. G. L. Goodman to the
fore) who roamed the foyer ip search of
prey. The items represented quite a mile
of professional talent, from every theatre
and music-hall in town. Hon. organiser
Hugh Ward occupied a commanding view
from the front row of the d.c., where the
municipal Richardses were also enthroned.
Boxes which had been sold and resold at
prices from 40 to 110 guineas were fluffy
with the latest millinery. Nellie Stewart
lent her aid to the pageant. It closed a
programme which had stretched all the way
from Dan to Beersheba.
Lincoln Plumer made a smart interjector
—a better word than interlocutor as Plumer
runs the business —at the gigantic matinee
for the war funds. He understands the
clever gag trick and drops it in without a
palpable effort, on the right coins, when the
auction bidding—say £240 for a flag—shows
signs of getting out of picket. “You’ll be
wanting a lot of flags presently to drape
here and there on some new property,” said
the heavyweight ’Murkan, as he cheerfully
robbed the public the other day, “and. be-
sides, we’re learning quite a lot of things
since the war began. I always thought
Servia was a racehorse, and Bulgaria was
the technical name for a disease—but now
we all know better.”
Celia Ghiloni, whose weight is a sliding
scale according to the amount of non-fatty
diet she happens to be on or off with, had a
busy time on the big theatrical day out.
After yelling lustily in Martin Place, and
collecting cash for the Cause (everybody
knows what the Cause is), she had a rousing
welcome at the matinee, only second to the
uproar that greeted Florence Young. Miss
Ghiloni’s present stage of banting gives her
a decided waist and a suppressed appearance
higher up.
Olive Godwin’s saucy black silk frock the
other matinee (there are so many patriotic
outbreaks that it is safer to be vague),
puzzled the male intelligence in the stalls.
This has been accustomed to see the fashion-
able leg step out from a slit at the side or
front of the garment. A T oio it has moved
to the back. When Olive turned round
to get to her seat on the stage, about
quarter of a yard of plump calf suddenly
burst upbn the view. Those present
remained calm.
Some of the cash thrown at the actors’
collecting parade, the other morning, fell
very wide of the mark. The motors ought
to have mobilised their catchy-catch-ean out-
works better, for the passionate desire of
citizens to hurl money from top windows
landed some useful coins on adjacent veran-
dah roofs and in remote gutters.
There’s a rumor that Sydney’s great
surgeon, MacCormick, is likely to pack up
for a trip to the other side, where his wife
and daughter are located for the present.
Possibly he is meditating a look-in at the
ambulance work which is being done at the
front.
Miss Olive Vernon, a daughter of late
N.S.W. Government Architect Vernon, has
been an Army nurse in India for the last
live years. The Australian nightingale has
also ' been on furlough to England, and
recently came this way via Papua. Now she
has hurried back to her nursing station in
India. Quite likely that we’ll hear of her
later on. She is a fine, serene personality,
almost as tall as her late parent, and just
the type of woman to keep as calm on the
edge of a battle-field as if she were cooking-
arrowroot in a garrison hospital.
Baker’s Stadium throbs with a frantic
raid on the public purse, for our tug-of-war
funds, after this letter is gummed up. The
advertising scheme was laid on in thick
slabs. Only a really blind man —not the
hearty-looking person who uncloses one eye
to see whether the passer-by has given him
a bad threepenny bit —could have missed
the huge, rumbling waggon that squeezed
through last week's traffic, plastered all over
with printed calico. When this chariot
stuck between a few trams, motors, infuri-
ated cab-horses and pedestrians in a main
street, anyone not engaged in a life-and-death
struggle with the rest of the traffic
was able to read thrilling details of the
Stadium Patriotic scrap.
The A.J.C. has wisely decided that, so
far as it knows at present, there is no good
reason to postpone the October race meet-
ing. Even if every man jack in the State
is doing, or professing to do, his little bit to
help our side of the struggle in Europe, it
would be a poor heart that never put a
shilling or two on the bob-tailed nag or
whatever its fancy might be. The spring
meeting, incidentally, gives employment to
thousands of toilers, who would have to bite
the dry husk of enforced idleness if the big
Ilorse carnival were wiped out. The bob-
tailed nag generally comes in last, but the
public gets a run for its money (or the
bookmaker does), and the innumerable coun-
try visitor will have the Patriotic Ilat
thrust under his nose when he comes to
town, and be conveniently dunned in city
hostels. Therefore, the frock-makers echo
the words of Atkins and Francois, “Are we
downhearted? —No !”
Fashion, as a cult, is lying low, and its
votaries are saying nothing of much conse-
quence, perhaps. But the female brain is
still reserving a small corner to observe the
insidious advance of the bustle. This ancient
outwork is built of silk puffs. The new
cloth tailor-mades, though lacking their old
severely correct lines, have not yet become
so demoralised as to grow a hump on the
tails of their jackets. Gorgeous spring
models puffed like pouter pigeons are de-
signed for the lean fashionable figure.
The plump can go hang, so far as any dress
architect cares. But the heavily draped
hips are compensated by the draggecl-in
appearance of the ankle area. Steps are
necessarily short, and the next race meeting
ought to give us a fair example of the quick
Japanese trot —very unpopular in German
society just now —on the Randwick lawn.
The accounts of the July ball in rid of the
Civil Ambulance funds pan out at a profit of
£3O4 —a goodly sum considering this hop
was held in Polo week, when Society was
dancing the soles off its satin slippers. Mrs.
Macneill Simpson, one of the buttresses of
this perambulating charitv on wheels, has
just emerged, intact, from a month’s retreat
in a private hospital. She will, possibly,
pass on a generous percentage of oats to the
ribby ambulance horse as his share of the
profits.
The late Mrs. Lewis Levy, who passed
out the other day at the age of 88, or there-
abouts, was a wonderfully well-preserved < Id
lady, who moved about amongst a younger
generation with a keen interest in its frills
and fads. She was the widow of one of
Sydney’s earlier Jewish merchams. who was
reckoned an easy prey to persuasive cadgers
for Good Works. Like her deceased hus-
band. the late Mrs. Levy was a kindly soul,
who gave abundantly, and enjoyed life —and
bridge—with the zest of a youngster of CO
summers. The tails of her widow’s cap,
which hung over front stall seats on first-
nights, will be greatly missed by two genera-
tions of playgoers. Sep and Harry Levy,
Mrs. B. Cohen and Mrs. George Cohen, ..re
local members of the large Levy family
though Harry of that wealthy tribe, and his
household, are, or were, pursuing smart
Society in London.
The F. G. Sargood family, of the Vic-
torian softgoods Sargood clan, have crept
back, with lights out after dusk, in the
Niagara. They’ll settle down, in their leafy
nest at Wahroonga, with a firm conviction
that, for some time to come, Australia is a
good and safe place in which to go to bed o’
nights.
“The Girl in the Taxi” still entices the
public to cheer itself up with the hilarity
of Baron Dauvray (W. H. Rawlins) on
Her Majesty’s stage. Dauvray, who has
an unctuous. Chadband voice, is hurriedly
described by one of the Totties at the
Jeunesse Doree restaurant as an “old dear,”
and he hops gaily round the thin plot as per
invoice. Clothes, even when they are as
scanty as the drapery of a supper-class
damsel in tights and a suggestion of blue
tunic, are fresh and saucy-looking in this
very light opera. The Baron’s legal lady
has a race-frock (which she inadvertently
wears at the family breakfast-table) with a
fluff of azure tulle over a shimmer of satin
in the same shade, that any Perfect Lady
would cheerfully annex for the coming
Randwick dress parade. Fortified by this
delightful garment she presides gracefully
at the morning meal, which is mostly
crockery.
Maggie Jarvis and Gwen Hughes, the
leading feminine importations in “the Girl,”
suggest the same old bone of contention
—why do we import so much mediocre over-
seas' stuff in a land full of singing birds
and beauty? The Jarvis voice is neither
better nor worse than we are accustomed
to hear from the “brought from Britain”
comedy lady’s expensive throat. Miss
Hughes has more claim to her passage-
money. She is quite the leanest girl we
have seen on the Sydney boards for some
time. Elsie Spain, another of the firm’s
imported silhouettes, is almost beefy com-
pared to Gwendoline of the salt-cellared
chest expansion. (N.B. —There may he a
snap of the green-eyed monster in this re-
mark, for 1 belong to the unfashionable
plump who are anathema of the frock
trade.)
Nurse Helen Gould, who garnered her
experience of war kits in the South African
squabble, insists on the necessity of pyjamas
for convalescent warriors. So for Heaven’s
sake, Arini, go on stitching!
Mrs. Mayoress Richards presided over
the annual report and balance-sheet of the
Fresh Air Heague the other fine afternoon.
The veteran lion, secretary, Mrs. George
Kelliek who has been rounding up .The
League’s reports for the last 20-odd years,
read the 1914 statement. The notion of
sending hollow-cheeked city urchins and
pale-faced dwellers in mean streets to coun-
try pastures is a good one. The F. A.
League rushes relays of weaklings out of
town, from November to March each year.
Incidentally, it helps to keep them out of
crowded hospitals, by catching them in time.
Professor Jamie Wilson’s pretty daughter
Jean was married the other day to Mr. Tom
de Burgh, of hereabouts. Mamina WilSon,
a daughter of file late notable Iv.C. Julian
Salomons, was so daring as to entertain the
wedding party in the stairy summits of
Queen’s Club. According to one breathless
wedding guest, “Sicli a gettin’ upstairs”
ought to be played to encourage our stoutest
people (there are a few fat. comfortable-
looking folks still left to tell the tale of no-
banting) to become members of this resi-
dential King-street corner club. (For good-
ness sake, don’t call it corner pub!) Stairs
are said to be quite as good for the fat as
mountaineering, and they are much cheaper.
Mr. G. Mann, one of our National Gal-
lery tetrarclis, was booked for an August
tour through Holland, Germany, France and
Italy, for the purpose of bringing back the
best samples of foreign students’ work he
could lay his hand on. He left England on
July 29 for this art scratch in Europe, but
I expect he bustled back to the Thames city
when the furious Frank and fiery Hun
began to shout (not drinks) in their sul-
phurous canopy.
Two interested visitors to artist Arthur Bur-
gess’s London studio, a few weeks ago, were
Admiral Henderson and Dr. Morrison. The
latter is the brilliant Victorian who has the
ticklish task of whispering political advice
in the yellowish ear of the Chinese Govern-
ment. They went to see the picture Burgess
has painted—at a 14,000-miles’ range—of the
Australian navy’s entry into Sydney Harbor,
on October 4, 1918.
Ivillara, where the good golf links are, is
now immersed in Red Cross bandages and
much ambulance work. Ambulance business
has improved, since the Good Samaritan
ambulated the damaged traveller on his ass.
The local tennis club girls, with Miss Edie
Fisher as lion, secretary, went to Chesalbn
private hospital the other afternoon in a
formidable body. One of the bodies, the
plump and pretty Miss Nosworthy —a niece
of Scientist Elliot Smith —retired in her
clothes to bed, and was promptly bandaged
by the whole company. While the ambu-
lance struggled with the hearty subject, Dr.
Halcomb, in charge, passed round the tea
and cake.
The Dickens Fellowship, which has been
scraping together the funds to put a name
and headstone on the grave of the late
Edward Bulwer Lytton Dickens, will now
relax its effort for a brief rush after patri-
otic cash. The dance —plain and fancy—
occurs in a local city ballroom. Results,
after paying the piper, go- to the Mayor’s
Fund, which is swelling visibly every
day. The late Edward (etc.) Dickens, who
was unable to make much worldly headway,
in spite, or perhaps because, of his ponderous
literary names, is supposed to rest some-
where in the sunburnt sod near Moree.
Australian-born Justine Kong Sing (now
in England) had an illustrated article in the
July issue of the Chinese Review. This
effort, called “Things English from a Chinese
Woman’s Point of View,” was to have been
followed by a counterblast —also from
Justine —on English women as distinct from
“things” or traditions in the rainy isles. The
SydneyiChinese girl is a clever young artist,
who seems to be pushing her brush to the
front in overseas’ exhibitions —notably at the
Old Salon, Paris.
Concerning socks. Two-thirds of the
feminine population of this State appear to
be knitting socks —in the intervals of cut-
ting out shirts, large enough for the entire
Russian army. The Voice of Authority
remarks that the food fund (Chamber of
Commerce) would be glad to catch some of
this energy, and boil it down into sides of
bacon, boxes of butter and other immediate
comforts for the British or Allied stomach.
One Sydney youth who is going to the fray
has already been presented by admiring
flappers with 49 pairs of knitted socks. In
addition to this cargo, lie is protecting him-
self against daily consignments of pyjamas,
flannels, pen-handles, nibs, colored hankies
and enough shirts to turn himself into a
manufacturer’s baggage agency. More
food and cash are needed at the present
moment.
Yours affectionately.
VANDORIAN.


HARDY BROTHERS
LIMITED.
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
USEFUL PRESENTS FOR MEN,
Round Solid Silver Tobacco Box,
£1 10s
. ■ ■■■
Lj
Silver Cigarette Case, with
Concave Back, to hold two
Rows of Cigarettes,-
£1 15s.
"Hair
The Company Hasan extensive
Stock of Smokers’ Requisites
specially suitable as Gifts 'for
Men at the present time.
ilil'::
Solid Silver Matchbox,
19s.
We have a large selection of
Silver Matchboxes in the
Newest Designs at prices
ranging from Bs.
INSPECTION INVITED.
SELECTIONS FORWARDED OIM
APPROVAL IF DESIRED.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
POST FREE O-M APPLICATION.
13 Hunter St., Sydney; 118 Queen St., Brisbane.
LONDON AG i NICY : 32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET, W.
IRON AGE
Implements Ensure
Thorough Cultivation.
i m
&
n
DOUBLE AND SINGLE
WHEEL HOE
As shown in illustration, this Cultivator
is complete with Side
Moes and I’lows, Cul-
I ivator Teeth and
Pair of Rakes. These
tools can be adjusted
to make eight different
forms of Cultivation.
Price
*
Combined HILL # DRILL SEEDER,
DOUBLE 8 SINGLE WHEEL HOE.
This Implement opens
and covers the seed,
the next row in
its own furrow, sows
packs it, and marks
one operation, which,
therefore, makes its
utility apparent. Tools
can be readily ad-
justed or removed as
required.
Price 57/6.
Write for our new 300=page Catalogue of Tools.
(^fS-Phersort|)
554=66 and 582=88 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
Price, 1/- each. Posted, 111
A Few the of Eighty Volumes in the
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Books
SPORTING NOVELS.
THE- FIFTIES D Qp,
DELANEY
A Bushranging: Story
MBARRINCTON
m
'A
An Hi3to. :cAI Rj.n^nsa.
‘ IN RACING SILK,”
by G. R. Baldwin.
‘A ROGUE’S LUCK,”
by Arthur Wright.
‘GAMBLER’S GOLD,”
by Arthur Wright.
‘THE MARE WITH THE SILVER
HOOF,” by Bob Allen.
‘ EROS! EROS WINS ! ”
by F. Agar.
RUNG IN,”
by Arthur Wright.
‘ WOLAROI’S CUP,”
by Ambrose Pratt.
‘IN THE LAST STRIDE,”
by Arthur Wright.
BILES IDEES
bY A C, STEPHENS
A Humorous Book.
TOOfiSorS^N
> A/ enrLANCELOT
(/ BOOTH
A Thrilling: Story,
HUMOROUS BOORS
by EDWARD DYSON.
“THE MISSING LINK.” “TOMMY THE HAWKER.”
“ FACT’RY ’ANDS.” “ SPATS’ FACT’RY.”
“ BENNO AND SOME OF THE PUSH.”
ALL BOOKSELLERS AND BOOKSTALLS.
WRITE FOR A COMPLETE CATALOGUE.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
470 George Street, Sydney.
SIEMENS
Automatic
CIRCUIT-
BREAKERS.
Maximum Release.
Our improved Circuit-Breakers are designed for direct or
remote operation on direct or alternating current circuits.
The design, construction and materials are in every
respect the best. All current-carrying parts are of copper.
The arc at break can only take place between auxiliary
contacts (specially designed for the purpose) which are
provided with a pair of metal horns; the danger of spoil-
ing the main contact surfaces is thereby entirely avoided.
We stock Single, Double and Triple Pole
Maximum Circuit= Breakers to carry from
10 to 700 amps, continuously.
Write for Particulars and Prices.
SIEMENS BROS. DYNAMO
WORKS LTD.,
59 William Street, MELBOURNE.
42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.


DISTINCTIVE
GOLF SHIKTS
Farmer’s Golf Shirts are cool, comfortable, anti
ideally suitable for general summer wear. They
are made with soft fronts, soft collars, and soft
double cuffs in good-washing Cambric.
Obtainable in white grounds with narrow black
stripes, and white grounds with black or blue
block stripes.
Price 5,'6 ea., or 3 for 16/-
FARMER'S PAY CARRIAGE.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
PITT, MARKET &
GEORGE STREETS
The
Oriental
Hotel,
MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA’S MODERN HOTEL.
Now open for the reception of Guests.
The most Hygienic Conditions and Refined
Elegance are distinctive features.
Ady size suite of compartments.
Tariff from 15/- per day.
ERNEST McINTOSH, General Manager.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, September 7, 1914.
My Dear Yarrie, —
All that is left of Wattle Day is the un-
pleasantness of crushed wattle seeds and a
goodly sum of money. On the day of the
raid the Stock Exchange was infested by
small cadets blowing shrill bugles. Actresses
in borrowed motor-cars and arresting clothes
smiled dreadfully at the kerb and hoped to
sell kisses to a deluded public. It is a curi-
ous form of patriotism, and is becoming
wearisome. Inside the usually sedate lobby
of ’Change a platform had been erected, and
a song-and-dance programme was carried
through. As the stricken institution is
officially “closed,” the unusual revels didn’t
disturb business; but I thought it a little
irreverent —like ragging in a vault. Melba,
in a striking assortment of duds, the most
prominent items of which were a huge Toby
collar and a turban with rabbit-ear bows,
planted a tree in Richmond Park, presum-
ably by way of atoning for the damage done
elsewhere. Mrs. Dodds and Mrs. Kill ear,
with an army of nice-looking girls (it’s no
use sending out societv hags when cash is
required), worked the long road, bushranger-
fashion, between the Grand Hotel and
.Melba’s Richmond fortress. As usual, the
Grand put a large room at the disposal of
the chattering women, and gave them all a
dinner-party at the end of the day, as well
as supplying incidental refreshments. If
aim female fell down through exhaustion the
sin couldn’t have been laid at the Grand’s
dinner-table. The white-robed girls, wearing
official badges, were allowed to enter theatres
without paying, and didn’t they use the
privilege! The sweet young things swamped
the various shows in the evening and rushed
hither and thither like a dispersed barnyard.
A few damsels of the sensible sort paraded
for duty in the morning in trim white cloth
tailorings, but the mad majority wore thin
white muslin, and, as a natural consequence,
chattered all day with blue noses. (That’s
rather confused, but let it pass—l know
what I mean, if you don’t.) To all inquiries
of anxious and suspicious mothers, they re-
turned the information that they had
woollen things on underneath. The Rupert
Clarke dame had her car filled with yellow
blossoms all day. In the evening she sat in
solitary state in a box at “Bunty,” standing
up occasionally to let the house view the
dainty French bustle at the back of her
stone-colored glace dress. The rest of the
time. people had to be content with a view of
the immense cone of red hair and a white-
vloved hand daintily holding a red camellia.
Half of the town offices are undermanned
since Wattle Day, the staffs having acquired
influenza, catarrh, hay fever, swollen feet
and that full feeling after meals. Most of
the sufferers (the sufferers are the employers
who pay the absent ones’ salaries) blame the
pollen scattered by the plague-of unnecessary
females.
The Old Scotch Collegians gave a send-off
dinner at the Grand Hotel to those of their
number who are ganging awa’ to deal it oot
to oor Wullie —he o’ Potsdam. Three hunerdt
an’ fifty mooths faced the haggis, wi’ good
old Scottish resolution; to mak na mention
o’ the entrees, legumes and other new-
fangled noshuns. Pegs! hoo the wlmsky
flawed an’ the pipes skirled, and
wailed, and grooned i’ the nicht. To abandon
the Scotch language, the President, young
George Moir, son of Lawyer Moir, led the
revels, and acquitted himself right credit-
ably. Some wore kilts, and some claw-
hammers, but the contingent boys were in
khaki. Girls drooping about the tavern
lounges over their coffee admired the heroes,
as girls will, yet wondered mournfully how
many eligibles would be left before the
beastly war was finished. I know this, be-
cause they told me so, as they were powder-
ing their noses, preparatory to the homeward
journey, at the end of the proceedings.
Doctor Fred Bird, arrived late and was
cheered loudly. He is offering himself, his
assistants and several nurses for a year. He
deserved a whoop. Besides the expense of
his little crowd, Bird can count on the loss
of his practice at his Melbourne private
hospital. The whole thing brings his per-
sonal donation up to about £lO,OOO, which
is a good deal more than manv of our
millionaires are sacrificing in the cause. And
yet the lie that Scotsmen are mean is suf-
fered to live!
Yates Smith, who has for long attended
to one of the champagne branches of Aus-
tralia’s commissariat, fell back hurriedly—
though in good order —last week on New
4 ork. There is a shortage of supplies, and
the bookmaking contingent is already show-
ing signs of uneasiness. The incoming stock
was on German boats, and the censors alone
know who is drinking it now. The tragedy,
from the point of view of the layers-of-odds
and their dependents, male and female, is
that the Germans are trampling about in
the country where the precious intoxicant is
produced—in fact, as I write, a mighty
battle is probably being fought in and
around Rheims itself. There will be
precious little of this year's vintage left by
the time the bibulous German soldiery have
clone with it —-a remark which applies
equally to any other vintage they can lay
their predatory and alcoholic paws on. (I
fear I am becoming somewhat severe, but
you will forgive me in the circumstances.)
Ethel Gunn, a Melbourne girl who married
Doctor Lavertine, Fleet Surgeon on the
British Monarch, has cabled to her Mel-
bourne people the news of the arrival of a
son and heir. The father knows naught of
the glad event, having left for parts un-
known, under sealed orders, before it
occurred.
On Wattle Day, the most foolish-looking
female abroad was the one who hovered
doubtfully at a windy corner, at intervals
standing on one leg and croaking “Wattle,
wattle!” like some large, dreary bird. Occa-
sionally she thrust a spray of the stuff in a
passing man’s face and made him stagger
back and sneeze; but, beyond that, she didn’t
seem to have any ideas on the art of sales-
manship.
This is the sort of social small beer that
pours into my letter-box after such a futility
as Wattle Day: “The just-returned globe-
trotting Piesnorters (any fool can globe-trot)
had their big grey car (everybody who isn’t
socially dead has a car nowadays) smothered
in blossom on the great hold-up day. Pretty
Mrs. Piesnorter (she has to be pretty), con-
cealed in a fur coat (fur coat indicates
wealth), greeted her numerous friends (that
shows she is popular) from a veritable
golden bower. A huge golliwog doll decor-
ated the bonnet of their petrol waggon
(originality !). and Flossie Grinner and other
nice girls (they’re always nice!) helped to
fill the luxurious cushions.” And that is all!
If I were a vindictive angel, and Hades had
fallen, and Beelzebub were mine to torture,
I would feed him on Piesnorter pars, till he
shed boiling tears. In the words of dear old
Euclid, “All Piesnorters are the same Pie-
snorter, and are equal to anything.”
Henry Stead (need I mention again that
he is Generalissimo of the Review of Re-
views?) has brought out two War pam-
phlets. One is red: the other is blue.
Between them they disclose the entire game.
Anyone who blews the modest sum of six-
pence on them will be in a position to hold
his or her own against any foot-path general
or side-walk strategist in the country.
Apart from the fact that he is a recognised
expert on the question of bloodshed, Stead
knows Germany as you and 1 know the lawn
at Flemington. Very few of the Kaiser’s
little tricks are hidden from him. To make
his position even stronger, his wife was at
school in the Fatherland, and has frequently
had her childish head patted by the mailed
fist. So you can understand that the books
are cheap at the price.
Gladys Chirnside (she sometimes gets an
extra “w” in her front name when space is
plentiful) and Jackie Fenner are on board
the incoming s.s. Nestor, due here this
month. They were about to start from Eng-
land on a motor tour of poor, old troubled
Europe, but they didn’t go. The John San-
dersons, with their almost imperceptible
family of one, are also aboard the ship.
A small panic was created on Wattle Day
by a Really Good Girl with a plain, virtuous
face. Fired by the heroism of certain noble-
hearted actresses, slie projected herself into
a respectable city office and offered to sell a
kiss—just one precious, lingering kiss—for
the ridiculous sum of one shilling. There
was a tragic pause; then a good sport, who
didn’t want her to blush to death at the
counter, pulled himself together and bid half
a crown. But he was "saved by a foolish lad
offering an advance of sixpence. The poor
child not only had to pay up, but was com-
pelled to take delivery of the goods. The
Bad Girl of the Family simply isn’t in it
when the Good Girl decides to Let Herself
Go.
“The Forty Thieves,” plodding along to a
war-scare-depleted house last week, rose to
a distinguished audience on Thursday.
Melba took a big dress-circle party, and
Ellen Terry was the guest of honor. George
Armstrong led a_ man party, in which
Lemprieres and Mitchells shone like bright
lights (or at least night lights) in a
naughty world. Beryl Fanning, all dimples,
leaned over from a back row and basked in
the attention of the Importants. Melba
was wrapped regally in a huge cloak of
chinchilla fur and brocade, and an .im-
mense diamond and turquoise butterfly
clung to her black hair. Ellen Terry was
delicately draped in diaphanous black,
through which gleamed a gown of bright
rose-patterned silk.
Dolores, who has been singing in Banana-
land, will open her Melbourne season on
September 19 in the Town Hall.
The commercial travellers are arranging
si carnival for October at the Exhibition.
The proceeds will be divided between St.
Vincent’s and the Women’s Hospital.
Instead of the usual At Home party in the
Repertory Theatre Club Rooms on Friday
Mr. Wardale-Greenwood' gave an address on
Ambulance Work in War. The hyphenated
one is young and extremely beautiful. He
plays in Repertory productions by night and
works as secretary for St. John’s Ambulance
Association by day. A strenuous existence if
ever there was one. An immediate result of
his finely-orated lecture was that many work-
ers volunteered for the association, where-
upon the Repertory Club Room was placed
permanently at their disposal, and all ended
in an atmosphere of satisfaction and the
sense of duty done.
Mrs. Marsh (whose husband is one of our
most brilliant ink-importers) has been
dancing a nervous breakdown for weeks past
on the subject of her two sons. One is in
Europe somewhere and the other was re-
cently made British Consul in German
Papua. She had intended spending part of
next winter with the Consul, but now, alas!
it may never be. lie is no longer a Consul,
for there is no longer any German Papua.
His position resembles that of the late King
Milan, ex-King Manoel, Prince William of
Wied, the President of Iceland, and other
deposed potentates. Still, I am given to
understand that he is riot worrying.
The Open-Air Gymnasium on top of the
Auditorium has been dedicated to Ambulance
lessons of a Friday. Miss Webb and Miss
Lorimer are helping things along.
The big chiffon stores are not as busy as
they were before the war, and the serving
girls put in most of their spare time knit-
ting soldier-gifts. A girl will put down a
stocking to serve Madam with five-eighths of
blue moire ribbon, give her the change out
of a shilling, and then straightway grab her
sock again and knit some more. It is very
edifying.
However this good-works business can be
overdone, to the point of priggislmess, it
seems to me. At a concert, the other night,
an elderly maiden-lady knitted vigorously
throughout the proceedings. Also, I saw a
knitter hard at it on a tram. This sort of
thing smacks of ostentation. I am not decry-
ing the knitting habit, mark you. My protest
is merely lodged against knitting as a form
of self-advertisement. The men in the fluff
stores do not knit—at least, they don’t do it
in public. All they can do for the cause of
Empire in the Crisis is to drop their regal
air of scornful . superiority and anxiously
kow-tow to any rare occasional customer. A
customer these times can reckon on getting
the full glory of a shopwalker escort all to
herself.
The plain and fancy-dress hop that the
energetic Hyams sistern gave at St. Kilda
Town Hall the other Saturday night was
worth £5O to the Red Cross Society, and
Lady Helen Ferguson has duly expressed
her thanks to the promoters of the shivoo.
The brusque, business-like methods of the
Hyamses seem to get the good will of then-
old pupils every time they set a ball scheme
rolling. In this case they had a committee
of men to manage the affair, and though it
was not profusely talked about beforehand,
more than 500 tickets were presented at the
doors of the beflagged and festooned hall.
It was a great night. Even the onlookers
in the balconies assisted towards the har-
mony by helping to sing the Anthem and the
Marseillaise.
Emil Resell, one of the potentates of the
brewery combine, appears to have been
caught by the sudden outbreak of the Euro-
pean unpleasantness. Six months ago, with
his German-born wife and his Australian-
born Emil, junior, he left on a mixed business
and pleasure excursion to Uncle Sam and
Cousin Bill. The party was*booked to leave
Hamburg on the way back to Australia a
week or two after the armed huff began, but
up to a few days ago those who . ought to
have heard hadn’t heard la jworcl from the
expedition, and what Emil Resell is doing
at this moment isn’t known on this side. If
he has had to fight he was certainly in no
form for it: besides, die has (been so long in
Australia that he has no modern-German
swank, and he never cultivated it anyhow.
He has been 100 busy cultivating swankey.
I hear that the Y.R.C. is drawing in its
hooves by cutting down the staff—this, pre-
sumably, by way of preparing for a slump.
But. as the big Club is still intensely patri-
otic at heart, it proposes to add a couple
of shillings to its usual grandstand charge
for ( up Day and pass on the results to the
Patriotic Fund. Thus Peter will be induced
to give a little more, and Paul will be pre-
sented with the little more amidst general
rejoicing.
Arthur Staughton is presenting his best
automobile and his own services, as chauffeur,
to our Expeditionary Force. I don’t want
to be depressing, hut his twin brother passed
out on a South African battlefield.
Port Fairy—-or all of it that matters to
a social historian like myself—came to Mel-
bourne in great feather for the Horwocd-
Whiting wedding. The Whitings, of Loon-
gana station, Port Fairy, were marryin o ’
daughter Dulcie to Horwood of Derrinalum
(this information is so momentous that I
am compelled to give it twice), and as the
heavens were expected to fall and the earth
lo stand still for the ceremony, a large part
of the Grand Hotel was commandeered for
the occasion by: -a mounted emissary of the
family with heavily-gilded coat-tails, a
cocked hat and two swords. The White
Suite was used to store the trousseau The
ceremony was an affair of great pomp and
circumstance in the drawing-room The
supper-room, inundated with white rose and
littered with champagne and food, was the
last rallying point. The bride and her
attendant maids made a triumphant proces-
sion from one point lo another and gave the
roof garden a turn, just to oblige the photo-
grapher. The young leading ladv wore the
usual high-grade trappings, and her chief
maid walked proudly under a coral tulle
hat. while the two minor females followed in
blue, with forget-us-nots in their hair. The
bridegroom and his seconds were covered
with confetti, and probably felt like run-
away boys who have joined a circus without
considering wliat a garish life it is Mrs
Whiting wore black and white with dia-
monds. and went in a subdued, ladylike
fashion, while Mr. Whiting declared, in the
tragic tones of a general "who is forced to
surrender owing to failure of ammunition •
“This is the last of my daughters to go off
I need hardly add that the best backwoods
society attended the function in force. They
couldn’t have been kept out with quick-
firers.
Broker Haynes, of Melbourne, has dis-
covered that he is a long-lost cousin ol'
Aclela l’ankhurst (one of the almost-for-
gotten suffragettes). He says lie remembers
Pa Panklmrst making a visit to his childish
home in America. The old gentleman (long
since dead, poor soul) was a doctor with
advanced views on all subjects—a tall, dig-
nified figure, with a dreamy eye. He is
happier dead. Imagine trying to be both
dignified and the husband of The Pank-
luirst.
The cable announcing the death of Pharos;
Phillips caught up with a handful of holi-
day letters full of happy travel chatter, and
containing no hint of sickness. Mrs. Phillips
and her schoolgirl daughter have cabled that
they are leaving England for Australia.
If the earth had continued on its usual
course, Dolly Castles would have
come back to Australia to play prin-
cipal. boy in the Christmas panto.
The arrangement has now been cancelled,
and Rumor alleges that the panto, itself may
be ruled out. Amy Castles was last heard
of in Milan, and cannot be located at time
of writing. Hardly anybody can be located
at. time of writing.
Rita Kendall, a Sassiety girl of Tooraketty
parts, has hurried back from M.L., and is off
to India this month to marrv her Mr.
Butcliart. He is in the Indian Civil Service
in Calcutta.
Harry McKinley, one of the four sons of
the late editor of Melbourne Paunch,
exchanged the pen which ho wielded in Dal-
gety’s office for an expeditionary rifle, all
unknowing that his brother Gilbert, in the
West, had been fired with the same resolve.
And now elder brother Gordon, who struck it
rich in a West African mine., has been
called upon to help in suppressing the Kaiser.
So the McKinley family will be well repre-
sented among the cannon and the horrors.
From my Adelaide correspondent
From England comes the news of the engagement
of Ruth, the elder daughter of Major and Mrs.
Anstruther-Gray, to one Edmund Antrobus, of the
Grenadier Guards. Ills father is a baronet, and
be, being the eldest son, will probably be Sir
Edmund some day. The family seat is in Shrop-
shire, and half the members of the clan are Roman-
ists. Mrs. Anstruther-Gray was once Miss Tennant,
of this village, a daughter of the late Andrew Ten-
nant, and one of the best-looking and smartest of
our “beauties” at a time when Adelaide was noted
for its good-looking women. Iler sisters, Mrs.
Mortlock and Mrs. U. M. Hawker, are still in S.A.,
as none know better than such faithful students
of my writings as yourself.
Tlie engagement is also announced of the youngest
of Mrs. Culross’s daughters to Malcolm, the-second
of the Teesdale Smith sons. Ilis headquarters are
at present at Morphettville, as he is one of the Expe-
ditionary Force now in ramp.
The Downer lady returned from Sydney on Wednes-
day. On Sunday her younger sister (who often
stayed here before her marriage) and her husband
arrive for a few days before going on to England in
the Morea. Mrs. George Box and Mrs. Booth, who
lias been here on a visit to her son, Mr. Russell
Booth, will be passengers by the same boat.
The Delmar Hall patriotic concert drew what the
papers brightly termed “a vast assemblage” to the
Exhibition Building on Saturday night. Prices
ranged from popular to stiffish, so there should be
money in it.
A sig-n of the water shortage has arisen on North
Terrace, by the Bobby Burns statue, in the form of
a timber platform on which are four galvanised iron
tanks. They are to hold the water which is to
be pumped up from tlie Torrens for the use of the
City Council. Meanwhile curses are being aimed at
Giddings, the long-distance weather prophet, \\dio
told us at the beginning of the year that 1914 was
to be as dry as chips till the last week of August,
when lie promised heavy rain. He was right except
as regards the happenings at the end of August.
Nothing occurred but a slice of particularly villain-
ous weather, and enough actual moisture to fill a t a-
cup. Now another prophet is prattling of floods in
early September, but everyone is too annoyed to
listen.
Mr. E. V. Fischer, who died at Glenelg last week,
came to S.A. in August of ’49. He went to Bendigo
at the time of the gold rush, but returned and
went on with his profession as an engineer. He
had a hand in the building of Government House,
the Post Office, and other public buildings.
Sale of wattle in the streets on Saturday brought
in a cheque for £l5B, £lOO of which goes to the
funds of the Kindergarten Union and" the rest to i':e
Patriotic Fund.
Saturday’s races at Morphettville resulted in three
biggish dividends —£13, £l5 and £2O; a smash in
the Hurdle Race that killed Lord Edward and his
jockey; another smash in Tattersall’s Handicap that
brought down five horses at the last turn, and in
some miraculous way did no very serious damage to
anyone ; and a Steeple in which only three out of
11 starters managed to get round the course. It
was a bad day for the horses, also for the crowd,
since the weather was poisonous.
The Fergusons have come and gone. There wa =
a small dinner at Government House on Thursday
evening and a reception, so that Dr. Barlow might lie
handed over his C.M.G. by the Governor-General;
an inspection of the camp at Morphettville, and a
review. Then the Anthe.n blared, and they fled.
The patriotic matinee at the Theatre Royal yester-
day brought in about £240. Sometimes 1 wish I
were a Patriotic matinee, or a Relief Fund, or some-
thing of the sort.
Yours siucerelj 7 ,
JOHANNA.


DEWAR
■ &
sea
' ■ , '
: ; gvjg
«S|
SIS
lg|
■
lilliiiH
SSWSS
N.
•**«
*
*
f#
1
ScofbbE ohy/pe o|
Copyright.
tfic &iq&leentfi Gen-tutu,.
A Scottish Gentleman of the Eighteenth Century, and another
fine product of the period—Dewar’s Whisky. Proved, trusted,
renowned, the drink of our forefathers is our drink to-day
evolved into the cosmopolitan beverage of the world.
JOHN DEWAR & SONS, L T . D - Scotch Whisky Distillers, Perth & Londor


CASTCR-OIL, SALTS & DRUGS REPLACED
BY “CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.”
Delicious “fruit laxative” cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels of old
and young folks.
A delicious cure for constipation, bilious-
ness, sick headache, disordered stomach, indi-
gestion. coated tongue, sal lowness —take
“California Syrup of Figs.” For the cause
of all this distress lies in a toripd liver and
sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all consti-
pation poison, waste matter, fermenting food
and bile gently moved out of your system by
morning without griping. Please don’t think
of “California Syrup of Figs” as a physic.
Don’t think you are drugging yourself or
your children. This delicious fruit laxative
cannot cause injury. Even a delicate child
can take it as safely as a robust man. It
is the most harmless, effective stomach, Tiver
and bowel regulator and tonic ever devised.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Cali-
fornia, Syrup of Figs,” which has full direc-
tions for babies, children of all ages and for
grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Beware of counterfeits sold here. Get the
genuine, made by “California Fig Syrup
Company.” Refuse any other kind with
contempt. “California Syrup of Figs” is
sold by all leading chemists, 1/lid and 1/9.
“THE TOPNOTCH SCOTCH.”
RING
GEORGE IV.
WHISKY.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Pick”: “Wyangerie’s” remarks (B.
20/8/’l4) about the need for re-afforestation in
Australia have my loud applause, hut experience in
the growth of hardwood trees impel# me to question
his assurance that in 30 or 40 years a planted
forest would become a commercial asset. Sixteen
. years ago I set out a healthy row of bluegum plant-
lings, under conditions of soil and climate favorable
to their growth. They now average 21in. around the
butt, and among bushmen it is a known fact that
as trees advance in age their rate of growth decreases.
It would, therefore, be much longer than “Wyan-
gerie’s” estimate before bluegums attained the mini-
mum size required by the Forestry Regulations for
sawmilling. Among practical sawyers a tree 6ft. in
girth, 3ft. from the ground, is anything over, but
nothing under, 70 years old.
“Yigilans”: Re freezing cattle in Darwin
and the inbreeding of stock in the Victoria River
country. There is no doubt at all that inbreeding
of cattle causes tuberculosis, but the late W. F.
Buchanan told me that tuberculous stock were rarely
found on his station, Wave Hill. And the manager
of Wave Hill told me, in 1906, that no fresh bulls
had ever been imported since the run was taken up,
some 20 years prior to tint time. Buchanan
declared that stoik in that part of the Northern
Territory did not deteriorate by inbreeding, but his
manager held a contrary opinion. The average
weight of bullocks on the Victoria was 8001 b., but
I have known them to weigh up to 8661 b. On the
Adelaide River the Brahmin cattle have almost
run out through inbreeding. They have crossed
with the Ilerefords on Mr. Laurie’s run, Maraki.
The question that particularly interested me in the
Territory was the arna, or swamp buffalo. For
60 years there have been no fresh bulls in the herds,
yet the beasts have not lost size nor weight by
inbreeding. The study of the buffalo in the North
is very interesting; Whereas no other stock thrive
well on the coastal areas he prospers. Over 100,000
have been killed, and there are 20,000 or more at
large. There is no tuberculosis in these animals,
and the flesh is No. L. A buffalo joint on the
Adelaide is worth eating, except that it spoils your
appetite for another immediately afterwards. Salt
arna is tiptop also, but the Brahmin salted is as
tough as the conscience of a camel. Freezing works
on the Victoria River would open up a fine business,
a fine country, and Blunder Bay, a good harbor,
with plenty of water. The river is navigable for
50 miles by large craft. Why does everything seem
to centre round Darwin? Blunder Bay and the Vic-
toria River country are the best portion of North
Australia. Just now this region is in the grip of
what looks more like the Beef Trust than a
feathered elephant. From the depot to Hill station
is magnificent country, suitable for agriculture with
irrigation. There is plenty of water, the climate
is beautiful, and the rainfall 22in. Above the 15th
'parallel all North Australia is poor country, with
some rich patches on the rivers. Still, it is all white
man’s country. Below parallel 16 anyone could
settle except a defaulting building society.
* * * *
“The Bird” : I hereby fire a broadside at
the remark of “Pick,” “that pilot fish are only seen
in pairs” (B. 13/8/’l4). I saw a 14ft. shark removed
from the moisture at Manly, and he (or she) was
attended by four pilots. In nearly every instance
when the big fellow is separated from his environ-
ment the pilots cling to and die with him.
• “Lagani-Namo” : Tl>/ most substantial
money that I know of is at Yap, Caroline Islands,
the place where the Germans recently marooned
Mark Foy, of the big Sydney fluff-shop.
It is of a dense, milky limestone, is roughly circular,
up to 12ft. in diameter, and from 3in. to 3ft. Thick.
To facilitate handling there is a hole in the centre,
through which a stout pole can be put. Instead of
shifting this awkward boodle, whenever a change of
ownership eventuates, the new owner hurries along,
chips away the previous possessor’s mark and makes
his own on it. When Germany bought these islands
front Spain, orders were given to various villages to
pave certain roads with coral flagstones, but the
natives ignored the commands until their new bosses
sent a detachment of soldiers to confiscate the biggest
coins by chiselling the Kaiser’s brand on them.
That was tantamount to commandeering the wealth
of the Bank of England. The niggers got so busy
on those roads then that the sweat made furrows
down their logs.
EDUCA WON.
SCHOOL INSPECTOR : “I hope this child's education is not being neglected."
C OCKY: “ Don't you worry , Mister. She knows more about cows than any other kid in
the district .”
THE METALLED TOAD.
P ARSON: “Do you know, that the way of the transgressor is hard?”
THE BATTLER : “ An' I suppose the other feller gets bogged."
“Lagani-Namo”: Old Weaver used to
grow vegetables a few miles beyond Port Moresby
(British Papua) for the Europeans there. Suddenly
he disappeared, and a party went to investigate. They
found some of his apparel at the edge of a water-
hole, and, knowing that crocodiles were numerous
thereabouts, it was concluded that the old fellow had
provided a “blow-out” for them. Nine months later
some Koiari bushmen dropped into the Magistracy at
Moresby, and told how they had heard one Ariki
boasting about having killed Weaver and buried the
body, and about how he had hoodwinked the white men
by arranging the clothes beside the swamp. One of
the informers was Ariki’s rival for. a certain brown
damsel's affections, hence the sudden moral prompt-
ings to help Justice. Subsequently Ariki and two
accomplices confessed. Ariki was a good friend of
the murdered man, but he was in urgent need of
human blood to paint the posts of a new dubu (men’s
house), and he wanted the right to wear certain
feathers distinguishing homicides. Weaver, in his
lonesome humpy, seemed an easy opportunity. After
he was killed the murderers set to work to revivify
him, and they succeeded in making him alive again
up to his chest, but though they made pourri-pourri
(magic) for hours, they could not get the rest of
him alive. Natives from a radius of 60 miles jour-
neyed to Ela to see how the white folk “paid back.”
When the drop was released and the nasty thing
swung and jerked about in mid-air, the audience fled
in all directions, knocking saplings out by the roots
in its hurry. It'd take more than paradise-bird
plumes to induce any of these people to draw a
white man’s blood now thereabouts.
* * * *
“Majik”: “Moana.” who wrote (B.
13/8/’l4) about the “offerings” placed on the graves
at Nuie, in the Cook Group, hasn’t got the hang of
things. The idea of the Nuiean putting a type-
writer on the mound above the deceased is absurd ;
a sunshade equally so. The almost universal prac-
tice there after the interment is to place on the grave
some articles of personal adornment, or something
the deceased used for gratification of the aesthetic
sense. For instance, a woman’s bracelets or hair-
combs ; a man’s watch or ring; or, most prized of
all, a bottle of scent. The natives there are whales
for scent, their taste running principally to Florida
water. By the way, and I never knew anyone who
had an explanation, it was at one time the general
custom to plant onions on the Nuie graves. Think
that the notion underlying the material offer-
ings, such as scent and jewellery, was that when
the spirit of the late lamented “came up - ’ it might
like to use them. The native mythology forbids
the assumption that the spirit would be all the
better for a feed of onions. However, planted onions
invariably were —just in the way we plant daisies
and daffodils —and many a time when a kid have I
driven the house boys to distraction and mutiny by
eating in their presence a handful of vegetable rifled
from some neighboring bone dump. To the natives a
grave, and all about it, is very tapu, indeed, and they
imagined that my frequent acts of desecration had
filled me with dozens of aietus, otherwise devils.
“J.M.”: To perish within three miles of
home —this was what McGraw felt was going to
happen to him, the old prospector, who had dared
the terrors of the fiery waste places so long that
their perils were the familiar things of his daily
life. But now, with an empty waterbag, and the
thermometer at llOdeg., he had come to the end
of his last, long, lone tramp. Black mists swam
before his eyes, his tongue was swollen in his tortured
throat, and his unsteady legs reeled and tottered like
those of a drunken man. An anthill tripped his
feet, and he sprawled face down in the burning sand.
“McGraw! McGraw!” croaked an ominously exultant
voice. At the sound the all-but-dead body heaved
from the ground. The hand clutched the heaviest,
sharpest-edged stone within reach, and flung it, with
all the force of rage and loathing at the sleek black
crow, that, perched on a neighboring boulder, eyed
the man with obscene anticipation. “I’m not dead
yet, you devil!” gasped the swollen lips. “McGraw!
McGraw!” croaked the feathered fiend. “Can’t you
wait till I’m dead, you devil?” and again a stone
flew. “Plonk!” The unmistakable, incredible,
blessed sound of a store falling into deep water smote
A REMINDER.
“I say, Orace! This reminds me ov the time
wen I wuz a bloomin' millionaire."
the quivering, blast-furnace atmosphere. And,
miracle of miracles, this was just what had hap-
pened—the missile of vengeance had fallen into an
unsuspected gnamma hole —the sort of ex-
cavation which always contain storage water.
From that hour McGraw regarded every black
crow, if not as a guardian angel, at least
as a friendly and beneficent attendant. He
encouraged them round his shanty with gifts of food.
It is even said that, when he afterwards became
a boundary-rider on a backblocks run, he sacrificed
many a wether to their insatiable appetites. Once,
at a mustering, when they “McGraw-ed” at him
from the stockyard rails, he remonstrated: “Whist,
ye devils, don't you see the boss is here?”
(Continued on page 2Jj.)
THE UNSUITABLE SUFFERER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Several sufferers have been turned away from Mel-
bourne Hospital lately because they were considered
“unsuitable.” One had fallen off a tram in a fit and
cracked his skull: another had burst a blood vessel ;
a third and fourth had been gathered by constables
from the city streets in a more or less battered con-
dition. The police now want to know what consti-
tutes a suitable patient for a public hospital.
Bill Brown had tumbled ’neath a ’bus,
And battered was his hull ;
The doctor said: “Now, what’s the fuss?
You shouldn’t bring this man to us —
He isn’t suitable.”
So Brown went out, and got a spill
Upon his dizzy head.
They took him to the hospit-fH;
But all in vain, tor he was still
Unsuitable, 'twas said.
They drove him onward in a trap.
It burst against a dray,
And put his spine awry, poor chap.
The doctor didn’t care a rap,
And ordered him away.
He staggered blindly ’neath a tram,'
And lost a leg or so.
Qnce more he murmured: “Here I am!”
“Unsuitable 1” Without a dram
Poor William had to go.
This time a chimney fell on Bill,
And sorely dinged his head.
They took him back, extremely ill.
“Unsuitable!” said Dr. Pill.
“Besides, the man is dead!”
4 -r
And dead be was. Brown’s soul flew high.
But Heaven, too, was full.
At Peter's gate above the sky,
“Get on!” they warned him. “Come not nigh—
You aren’t suitable!”
victoria.
SILAS SNELL.


"THE MOTOR WITHOUT A VICE.”
You are not getting the Best
Results if you are not using
A.E.G. ELECTRIC MOTORS
They are rugged and reliable. Probably
not so low in first cost as some others,
but with them first cost is last cost.
They do not add to their cost by
expensive shutdowns of your plant.
SUPPLIED TO SYDNEY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
UNDER CONTRACT.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE 8714.
Australian Metal Co. Ltd.
40-42 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
172-6 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
Gilbert Place,
ADELAIDE.
Nelson’s “VICTORY
Air-Gas Machine.
A MASTERPIECE OF
EFFICIENCY and ECONOMY.
There is nothing- finer than the
“Victor y” Air-Gas
Machine —-there couldn’t
be —if there was, then NEL-
SON’S would have it.
There is not a scrap of doubt
about its supremacy —it is
absolutely the finest machine
obtainable. When we say the
finest —we do not exaggerate,
we can prove it. No brag
about it. It’s a fact.
THE MONEY IT SAVES IS
REALLY MARVELLOUS.
Air Gas made by the “Victory” is the
cheapest you can get. It consists of !>8 >
Air and 2% Benzoline, and produces 60c j>.
light at the marvellously low cost of 1 loth
of a penny per hour. , .
Not onlv is it the cheapest light—it is the healthiest r„i Kwmme
and safest.' Air Gas leaves no carbon deposit m the air. as is the case with Coal Gas and Kerosene
-
thorouj^ly.^and^ gi^edtes^^^^Y^y‘j g and white-though soft and perfectly steady.
It is absolutely free from violet rays that affect the eyes.
“The Standard ot Efficiency”
is raised in the “VICTORY.” It can be used for Lighting, Cooking, Heating, and also .o
Power—a combination of first-class results—superior to \f,chine that
These are only a few of the vantage points of the “VICTORY Air-Gas Machine n;
P rOV c?n^e e the a se s points with the system you are using, and you will be convinced that your system
suffers by comparison. _____ _______—
The Price of
Complete
the Whole Plant
is
£25
Tt represents the soundest gilt-edged investment on the market. If you are interested Write
or Call as soon as possible, and we will show you more fully the wisdom of installing the
“VICTORY” Air-Gas Machine.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.,
Also at TURBOT BUILDINGS,
TURBOT STREET, BRISBANE.
219 George Street, Sydney.
IP OI LITE
The Modern Building" Material.
“POILITE” is the new building material that improves with age, becoming harder, and increasing in 5 “POILITE” construction is
Cement Sheets are made in various stock sizes, but can be sawn into any size required, thus the ease and simplicity or
Asbestos Cement Sheets make ideal Walls (inside and out), Ceilings, Partitions, etc They do not crack or warp, and are proof against
destruction by fire, white ants, decay, climatic conditions, time, etc., therefore their serviceability is as.ui .
“POILITE” Asbestos Cement Sheets can be supplied in the following sizes:— 4ft. X 4ft. *, 6ft. X 3ft. ; Bft. X 4ft. ; 12ft. X 4ft.
A Cottage erected of “POILITE” Sheets, inside and outside,
and roofed with “POILITE” Tiles.
a
V \
••
I
B
m
m
w
POILITE” Sheets are ideal (or inside walls and ceilings.
“POIEITE” ROOFING TILES.
It is generally admitted that “POIIJTE” Tiles make most attractive and serviceable roofs,
framework to be of much lighter construction than that designed for slate roofs. This means a considerable saving.
If you are interested in “POILITE,” the modern building material, send for a copy of our Catalog “M.”
They are light in weight, thus allowing the roof
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence St., Sydney.
(MELBOURNE) PROPRIETARY LTD., 499-501 Bourke St.,Melbourn
Queensland Agents: CHAS. E. BERNAYS, 45 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.


'msZz'Ml l
LI
BLACK & SMOKELESS
SPORTING & MATCH
CARTRIDGES
MH MOST RELIABLE OF ALL
AMMUNITION.
ASK YOUR STOREKEEPER FOR
KYBLACK—BLACK POWDER,
SWIFT, BONAX, PRIMAX,
GASTIGHT, P.G. SMOKELESS
POWDER.
Wholesale only:
SCOTTISH HOUSE, 90 William St., Melbourne.
KYNOCH HOUSE, 277 Clarence St., Sydney.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH-
-360=6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH -
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
Martin’s
Pattinson
Be sure
signature,
Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Po. Ladies recommend them
u! f get ,^ he .genuine with the
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
we are Born to
OFFER BENEFIT*
Insure in the
1.0. A.
l The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Capital ...£250,000
Subscribed... 165,000
Paid=up ... 82,500
Branches in every State.
Agents wanted. Write for particulars.
H. S. DOHERTY, General Manager.
AMAT E.UPS
feeding and Sne/ting ouitp /mpoas/b/t
closing
EMASCULATOR.
This“SAFETY"
Eraasculator
does away with all
risk of bleeding-.
Postage Free 45/-
My "Hints on Castrating "
enable any man used to Stock
to cut with the “Safety”
either Colts, Bulls, Rams, or
Boars. ——
Other patterns of
Emaseulators from
30/- to 50/-
Zoeller’s “Handy”
Castrating Knife, 3/6
is a lovely bit of Steel.
Carl Zoeller,
246 Queen St.,
BRISBANE, Q.
Send for complete
Veterinary Catalog.
It’s FREE
’Dili Bowang” : “De Oriel" (B. 20/8/‘l4)
is completely bushed when he states that the beetles
which reside near Mackay (N.Q.) and play havoc
with sugarcane are 4-1 inches long. I hate to contra-
dict anyone, but I’m well acquainted with the afore-
mentioned insects, and have made some decent cheques
capturing the worry of the sugar cocky's existence.
1. generally received 6d. a lb. for the beetles, but
about six years ago Is. per lb. was offered by the
local Farmers’ Association, and at this price it was
not unusual for energetic blokes who were early risers
fo make from £1 to 30s. daily. Unfortunately the
beetle-catching season lasts only- a couple of weeks in
the year at the most. A long pole with a wire hook
attached and an empty- kerosene tin comprise the
outfit. The pole is attached to the limb of a beetle
tree, and a quick jerk causes the insects to fall to
the ground. They are gathered up and placed in the
tin. Another method is io spread a white sheet
under a tree at night and place a lighted lamp in the
centre of same. The beetles fly toward the light, and
ns soon as they- fall on the sheet they are scooped up
in handfuls, lhe pests; are taken to a representative
of the local Farmers’ Association, 'where they are
weighed and then destroyed by boiling. No-thoroughly-
boiled beetle ever rises again. * :
A BETTER SUGGEST lON.
COCKY (off to town): “ Albert, after your
work every evening you must get all the
fowls anil shut 'em in this little fowl-
house at the back of the dairy. You know
the native cat's prowlin' round every
night! ”
NEWCHUM EMPLOYEE (who has heard that
there are 200 fowls): “ Wouldn't it be
better to shut up the cal?"
Dr. W. H. Rivers, F.R.S., described some
Melanesian marriage customs to the Science Congress:
In one island it had been the custom that a man
should marry the grand-daughter of his brother. Else-
where he married the wife or widow of his mother's
brother, and in other places it was formerly the
custom to marry a woman having the status of grand-
mother, viz., the wife of the father’s father, or of
his brother.
Any man who marries his grandmother is looking for
trouble.
THE LOYALTY OF HENNESSEY.
" How is it Hennessey beats your carpets so thoroughly? He wear pis half the dust
out of mine."
"Why, I always tell him they are German carpels , and he pound them til I take them
away from him."
“Lagani-Namo”: One of the South Sea
“blackbirders” ran in to the island of Bougainville
(German South Seas) a good many years ago, to try
and obtain kanakas for Queensland sugar planters.
When the craft sailed the startling discovery was
made that among the crowd they had paid a couple
of tomahawks for was an Italian. He was one of
500 European peasants who had beep, induced to
give their little all to the mountebank Marquis du
Ray, and accompany him to the
Eden he promised them on New
Ireland. AVhen the deluded colon-
ists were put ashore the first
thing they did was to erect two
statues, one representing their
gentle Marquis, the other the
Mother of Christ. Almost imme-
diately after that the Marquis
“did a bunk,” and left the crowd
of 500 without provisions or fire-
arms, and with but scanty cloth-
ing, to the tender mercies of the
island’s notorious cannibals. Only
a few managed to escape on rafts
to other islands. That's how the
Italian got to Bougainville. Of
those who landed from the same
raft he was the only ore not
scoffed by the natives. They didn’t
eat him owing to him being
crazy. A certain prejudice against
the consumption of madmen saved
him. Though he lived just as
they (lid for many years he religiously said
grace before and after meals, no matter whether there
was “long pig” (human meat) on the bill of fare
or the dinner was plain shark.
‘‘Pick : I am with those writers who
uphold Binghi as a fond and indulgent parent, but
the complete code of parental duties discloses no
other attribute that may be claimed for him. When,
five or six years back, the N.S.W. Aborigines Protec-
tion Board proposed to sever the elder children from
the immoral atmosphere of the camps, by finding for
them situations in suitable homes, ihe liqyyls of rage
from murky adults and tligir threats that there would
be more Jimmy Governors abroad, were, nearlv as
ear-splitting as the wails of grief. Families trekked
over the borders to escape the edict, and there arose
such parental opposition that the scheme practically
petered out. \V hilst kindly disposed towards his
offspring, Binghi exercises no control over those of
either sex. They roam and bask together at will.
Contaminated in mind and J?odv by the herded and
wretched housing conditions of their camp life, every
brand of iniquity is inbred among them from genera-
tion to generation. Certainly the A. P. Board has, of
late years, recognised, in some measure, the need
for improvement on the mission stations. Managers
are afforded a trifle more direct control than they
had under the Local Board supervision. Teachers are
appointed. Two-roomed huts arc erected where for-
merly whole families, or accumulations of families,
occupied one room as kitchen, front parlor and
sleeping compartment. Also, doctors who hold the
mission station medical contracts are nowadays ex-
pected to do a little for their crust. But the roots
of much evil still remain ungrubbed. Syphilis is
almost universal in the camps. (It is usually called-
pneumonia when a death occurs.) Inbreeding is rife
The age-of-consent law is disregarded, and offenders
are never brought to justice. No individual control
can be enforced, because any or even- inhabitant at
the camps may come and go at pleasure.
‘Moana”: There has been a lot of ink
spilt lately by Abo. contributors apropos the diving-
abilities of various niggers. But for real pluck and
agility urder the water allow me to say a word on
behalf of the West Indian negro shark-fighter. Round
the Bahama Islands and in parts of Central America
shark-fighting is a popular sport. The water is re-
markably clear, and an expert nigger thinks nothing
of going down 40ft. or 60ft., grabbing a man-eating
shark by the fin with one hand and deftly ripping it
open with a murderous-looking knife carried in the
other It requires nerve and special cleverness to do
a job like that. This shark-slaying pastime lias
recently been brought closely under the notice of
flickergraph patrons in Uncle Sam’s country A
man named Armstrong has invented a glass-windowed
operating chamber in which photographers can be
lowered down into the sea. This device is connected
vuh a boat al.ove by a collapsible and flexible metal
tube three feet in diameter, so that the man working
heJow ,s not cut off from his assistants. The invem
tor s two sons recently took this contrivance to the
Bahama Islands, and there made over 20,000 ft of film
showing deep-sea divers at work on a sunken vessel
and many pictures of remarkable fish. Tliev also <mt
a fine film, made 30ft. under water, of a real fWht
between a shark-killer and a shark. A great songan-
‘Ted”: T’other night at a neighboring
aim ! was reading-room (kitchen) for
about tep minifies, during which time I examined all
; h0 rea ding matter I saw lying about. Here’s what
I saw : One Charlie Garbage (first 41 pages missin°o
three Deadwood Hicks, cover of hymn-book, Stock
-vxi) Station- /oujujal (unopened), and a’ weeklv
paper winch saw the light for the first time in T 9
Cocky had no idea that war had broken out in
Rmope In our district there are 30 cookies and
dnee take daily papers and two take weekly pi pers
The rest borrow or steal when tliev .can. The h u
are not allowed to get books from the school librarr”
a., leading interferes too much with milking. ' ’
“Silas Snell" : Witnessed a most diverting
struggle on a tram on a Melbourne suburban line the
other afternoon. In Swanston-street Jacky Jacky
boarded the tram. Jacky was about 30, and of royal
descent, being grandson of King Billy, of the tribe
of Binbalingee. But his royal house has fallen on
evil days, and Big Amy was garbed in a pair of old
pants that looked as if they might have once graced
a more than ordinarily copious alderman .of the city.
This garment was girded on with a length of
clothes line. Jacky disdained boots and hat, but
wore a shirt and coat that were a disgrace to the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Kings.
Jacky stood on the rear platform, and gazed upon
the inhabitants of the car with imperial indiffer-
ence. His majestic eye seemed to have a film of
red cobweb drawn over it. Manifestly some publi-
can had disregarded laws made and provided 10
cut the aboriginal off from his drink. Jacky was
more than moderately “foo.” When asked for Ids
fare he waved the conductor off with an autocratic
gesture. The conductor persisted. Jacky was
majestically indifferent. The tram was stopped,
and the young conductor began the business of hurl-
ing royalty off the car. At this juncture Benevo-
lence intervened. Benevolence had taken the shape
of a fat, dimpled elderly gent who was shocked at
the idea of a king being hurled off a twopenny
Irani, in his own country, and he handed out a
ticket for the dethroned. Jacky remained, but he
was a soured sovereign. He had a grouch on the
young conductor, and started passing sullen and
impious comments. When the conductor was in the
ear taking fares, Jacky leaned in, and said: “Baas,
baas, I hit your pinery head.” When the conduc-
tor was on the dummy Jacky shouted through the
car: “Baas, baas, I hit your plurry head!” He con-
tinued to utter the same threat till the theme grew
monotonous. Then the conductor repeated his
threat to throw Jacky off the car. “No plurry
fear,” said Jack. “I good nuf man for you. 1
hit your plurry head.” At this stage his eye fell
on fat Benevolence. “I holt him ; .you hit him
plurry head,” said he. Benevolence slid along the
siat with an alarmed expression. “No, no, no!” be
cried. “Come ’long, baas,” pleaded Jacky. “You
take it coat. Jacky hit his plurry head.” .Tacky
tore off his wretched coat and threw it into the lap
of Benevolence. The conductor rang for a stop,
and the struggle commenced again. The White Hope
might have triumphed but for the alarming fact
that, immediately King John began to exert him-
self, his royal trousers started to fall off. There
was a mixed audience in the car, and this thing
could not be. The gripman was called upon, and
the two then entered upon the task of dislodging
Jacky. They found, after a fierce contest .lasting
three minutes, that they could not eject the ener-
getic abo. without throwing him out of liis “troos. ’
So Benevolence was called upon in the name of law
and order, and Benevolence, feeling himself in some
measure responsible, complied reluctantly. It was
his duty to hold up Jacky Jaeky’s nether garment
while the tramway employees forcibly removed his
highness. It ended in Jacky and fat Benevolence
going out and down together. They arose, Jacky
clinging to Benevolence as a man and a brother.
“You plurry good feller,” he said. “You come
longa me, 1 shout it.” Then the conductor did a
miserable thing. He threw out Jack.v’s coat, rang
two, and fled with his ear, leaving Benevolence in
the hands of the enemy.
THE BRUTE.
STAGE-STRUCK WIFE (who is going to appear
in private theatricals): “ You know, John,
dear, I don’t QUITE like appearing in
lights. what unit profie say?"
HUSBAND (after a glance at her figure):
"That I married you for your money."
‘ling”: In the dry North Coolgardie gold-
fields (Vyestralia) country, when you are doing a
perish, with your tongue swollen for want of water,
instead of scanning the desert for a patch of green
vegetation, you look for a hill. If you are lucky
enough to find one, the chances are five to one that
there will be a “griamma hole” of cool, crystal water
near the summit. During the driest years these
holes can be depended on. They are fed
from subterranean reservoirs; and the water main-
tains the same level from year’s end to year’s efid,
irrespective of usage, evaporation or droughts. You
might bore all round in the vicinity for hundreds, of
feet, and, may be, thousands, without obtaining
enough of the stuff which rots boots to spoil a whisky
with.
MAORI NERI'S HOLY MATRIMONY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One tay te pahson man he come,
An’ make te korero.
lie say I newwa marry right,
Te way I marry Tcho.
He tell me if we peon to shurch,
An’ if te pahson pray?
I terrim: “No, we go to pah—
-3 oh know te Maori way.’*
He say: “How many kid we kot?”
And I say “Neary sewen.”
He s’alce his head an’ t’en he say:
“T’ey newwa ko to Heawen.”
“Te Tevil purn te proomin’ lot,
Tchus’ rike you purn te wood.”
“By Chrise,” I tell te pahson man,
“Well, t’at no prurry good.”
I sorry all my half-cas' kids,
An’ so I terrum Tcho;
“Well, s'pose you newwa marry right
1 leave te kids an’ ko.”
Py crine, lie frighten an’ he say:
“Or-right, you Maori cow!
Hut, s’pose you newwa erear away,
I puy te license now.”
I werry krad I marry now,
Te onary proper way,
’Cos, ewwery time I get te tick—
Well,- Tcho he kot to pay.
T’em Maori girl town Rakai pah,
He ket te tcheajous me;
’Cos’ now I kot my ricense here,
Werr, I can haw-a spree.
An , if I feel te werv try,
An’ want te kras o’ peer,
Te parmaid frighten ’cos’ I got
My prurry ricense here.
MAOIULAND.
JOHN R. COLE.


JUST FOR THE ASKING
<v
, “FREE TROUSER” COUPON.
——t——
\ \ :Yame ;
Vi. '»
Vv X
/> '\ K
O
(w *iv Address
\K
%x ...
V 'v
i x
F v
K\
\\
\\
%y\
'< \
dj
O Y
a'h.
"'V
WRITE
NOW
London" 63/- Swhngs .
iorxJon" 70- Suiting
Sot
.. f*
FREE
\
:
%
MB
•**-
sy i
Highest Grade
Tailored Suits ORDER
with Extra Trousers
f k J^ OR !NG SPECIALISTS who know our business and pass the benefit on to you. Thousands of designs
and fabrics English, Scotch, Irish, and Australian Tweeds and Serges. The designs are perfect productions- the
Trimmings we use are all that could be desired. P productions, the
ORDE R TOUR SUIT AT ONCE We want you to be LONDON TAILORED—the hall-mark of Tailoring excellence.
We have travelled the world and spent endless money to secure the finest artists. Cutters of the highest ability with
most extensive experience are at your command.
SEND for t’ is immense range of SUITINGS,
and Post Free.
Elaborate colored Style Book, Tape Measure, Chart, Etc., GRATIS,
MONEY REFUNDED
IF DISSATISFIED.
Suits to Order
4.21-
55!-
75|-
901-
With
Extra
Trousers
Free.
Opp.
G.P.0.,
Melbourne
WE GUARANTEE
Absolute SATISFACTION.
Suits to Order
501-
63!-
70/-
841-
With
Extra
Trousers
Free.


WILFRED CIGARETTES
w
nT
R
E
D
c
I
G
R
EES
T
mm
'i/'fl I
!»!
jDjQAWN TOG^TYCK^
F
I
N
E
S
T
V
I
R
G
I
IN
I
A
io
FOR
delicious in flavour unique in quality
of ALL HIGH CLASS TOBACCONISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO., LTD., London. Eng
20 1 A
for A/
WHEN PEACE IS PROCLAIMED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“When peace is proclaimed”
The little man with the sharp eyes and the
sharp chin looked suddenly up. He seemed
to be about to interject, but evidently thought
better of it, and bent his keen gaze again
on the dominoes. He was not playing. He
was one of those groups of spectators who,
in that basement, every lunch-hour, sat at
white-glazed tables and watched, with a
thrilling sense of adventure, the swift battles
of the great masters of modern dominoes.
Scarves and pennants of blue smoke hung
or lazily drifted below the low roof. A fierce
clatter of rattled dishes sounded from
cavernous depths beyond the blue haze.
Large men, their plates and empty coffee-
cups pushed impatiently away, poised tiny
dominoes in flabby paws, concentrating the
whole of their vast intellects upon the
strategy of the game. Upon that glittering
arena heroic victories were won, grim defeats
stubbornly fought up to the last domino.
Excitement shone in the eyes of the ring of
motionless spectators, grizzled veterans of
the game, or fascinated recruits who had no
conception of the finer intricacies of the war-
fare. So they gazed, wondering, maybe, why
the commanding officer did not risk his 5-3 in
the firing-line, or why the enemy did not fling
that army corps—the double-two —upon the
enemy and crumple up his reckless battalions.
Yet, this lunch-hour, the interest of the
lookers-on —even the interest of the com-
batants —was not so concentrated. Another
war occupied a portion of their minds. As
one of the commanding-officers somewhat
testily put it: “How can a chap keep on
his game when all you fellows are talking
about the blessed war? There!” lie gazed
in dismay at the ruin of his cohorts in
white. “I knew I’d do it. That’s what comes
of you chans gassing about the Germans !”
The conversation was general. The
domino-gladiators kept on playing, of course,
but they played half-heartedly. They had
no zest in their game. Some of them, indeed,
added to the gas about Germany. But the
little, acrid man with the diffident moustache
took no part in the talk, except with his eyes.
He seemed to listen with them. With them
he seemed to peck each speaker in turn.
“When peace is proclaimed” —the ninth
man repeated, and told the others what would
hapoen then. He carved Europe into shreds.
He deposed monarchs and dissipated nations.
The little man made an impatient gesture.
His shrill voice made itself heard above the
chorus of military strategy.
“All very nice and neat,” he exclaimed,
“but how do you know that peace will ever
be proclaimed?”
A soft wave of fat voices flowed through
the basement. “Of course, at the end of the
war they’ll proclaim” ——
“Yes, but” —the little man spoke diffi-
dently—“how do you know that the war will
ever end?”
A dead silence swam like a drowned corpse
through the blue waves of the thick atmo-
sphere. Wars ended somehow, some day,
didn’t they? Wars must end. Couldn’t
have wars going on all the time. . . .ruin
business.. ..absurd”. .. .
"Mind you,” the little man’s voice went
on, “I’m not saying that I’m sure this war
won’t end. As a matter of fact, I think it
will. It wasn’t this particular war I am
thinking of. Hut when it does end, how is
peace going to be proclaimed.'”
There were a dozen voices to tell him that
elementary fact. The conquerors fixed up a
treaty with the conquered, and informed the
world that business could now be resumed
at the old stand.
The little man objected. ’That was the
old kind of war. It was easy enough when
only two nations were fighting—like E ig-
land and Scotland. But this is not that
kind of war. It’s the sort of war that lias
never happened before. Already there are
Germany and Austria and Russia and Servia
and Montenegro and France and Belgium and
Britain and Japan. You see the difficulty
of declaring peace. First you’ve got to get
the whole nine parties together and then
they’ll all have to issue declarations of peace
to everv one on the other side. That would
be possible; but this war is not going to be
confined to these few Powers. _ W ithin six
months everybody will be into it. It’s the
sort of war nobody can decently keep out
of. It’s a world war. Switzerland and Siam
and Peru and Mexico and Thibet will all be
dragged into it. It is hitting them all as
hard now as if they were fighting, so they
might as well have a go. Whv'.' Because
at the end of this war there will be a division
of the spoils —such a division of spoils as
would have made Alexander’s or Cjesar’s
or Ivubla Khan’s mouth water. It’s a
joint the size of the world the victorious
cooks will be cutting up —and there won’t
be a nation or a tribe in the world that won’t
want to have the right to put in its claim
for a share. What is Kitchener gathering
an enormous army together for —an army on
the European scale, that won’t be complete
for years? To be in at the division of the
spoil, w hat is Russia mobilising 8,000,000
men for? To take a little city like Berlin?
No; she wants a share of the spoil, and she
wants to have a solid argument in her favor.
And that is just the reason why the United
States and Chili and China and Liberia and
Monaco will find it necessary to mobilise in
defence of their glorious liberties and bog in.
“The present war doesn’t really matter.
It will go on automatically till the various
armies at the front are exhausted. Years
hence the last French soldier will dig his
way out of his entrenchments and come up
for a smoke. lie will be a field-marshal by
that time, simply because all his senior offi-
cers will have been killed off or have died
from senile decay. And, looking across to
the German entrenchments he will see the
last German soldier stretching himself on his
own ramparts and filling his pipe. And the
last German soldier —a generalissimo by
this time —will hold up the last bottle of
lager in the world and remark ‘Prosit!’ And
the French field-marshal will wander across
and offer his enemy the last cigarette in the
world. And the two will have a drink ai>l a
smoke, and decide to convert their barbed-
wire entrenchments into desirable villa resi-
dences. And in the evenings they will stroll
across and play dominoes.
“The last British soldier will. lo~g before
that, have given up the whole futile business
and started out to lay out golf links on the
battlefield. And with a rifle for a club and a
small, unexploded shell for a ball, he will be
playing matches against himself, seeing
whether he can go round in 807. He won t
have a caddy, though he ought to be able to
afford one. He will be Imperial Inspector
of Forces bv then.
“The war will long before that have left
these played-out frontiers, and new wars
over new frontiers will be raging everywhere.
You remember what happened at the declara-
tion of peace in the Balkans? Immediately
peace was declared the victors started more
wars against each other, and even the van-
quished bucked up and bogged in happily.
So at the end of the present war they wi.l
declare peace—lots of peaces —and immedi-
ately start some more wars. And then, of
course, all the rest will join in again. So it
will go on, everybody declaring peace, and
signing irrevocable treaties, and making un-
breakable alliances and unpuncturable
ententes and balances of power guaranteed
not to wobble, and. in between whiles, declar-
ing new wars. Peace will be declared at
regular intervals, as a sign that the next war
is beginning.
“It will probably happen that in the issue
of peace declarations one registered letter
in the batch will go astray, and Uruguay
won’t receive it by the morning post, and
will go on absent-mindedly fighting Iceland ;
and Iceland will protest that Uruguay has
broken one of the sacred rules of civilised
warfare, and the whole row will start again.
It will be like a long night at poker, with
everybody willing. Wars will rage between
comparative strangers like Finland and
Patagonia, and Andorra and Panama.
“And all this war will go on for centuries,
remember. The break-up of the Roman
Empire is the only analogy we have, to go
upon. It took centuries of the incursions of
the barbarians, centuries of. varying warfare
upon the world-wide frontiers, before the
great civilisation filed its schedule. But it
had to in the end —just as the present
civilisation will have to, if it goes on destroy-
ing all the resources that civilisation has bmlt
up all the resources that mean civilisation.
“The armies will surge back and forth,
ebbing and flowing over the whole globe.
Navies will annihilate each other, and carry
on the fight with out-of-date warships, till
they get down to wooden ferry-boats and
motor-launches. Every nation will occupy
every other nation’s capital, and the govern-
ments of every nation will go on the wallaby,
sheltering for the night in some unlikely
back street or swamp, then moving on, hump-
ing its swag and wheeling its war-chest and
its archives in a wheelbarrow. All the map-
makers of the world, including H E. C.
Robinson, will go mad with overwork. All
the men who make typewriters and motor-
cars and safety-razors and old Dutch cleansers
and all the other appurtenances of civilisa-
tion will be killed off. and the art of making
linen collars and harvesters and needles and
gas-fittings will die out, and fashions will
expire, because there will be no men left to
design dresses and no factories unburnt or
unexploded, and no employees to work in
them if they were there. There will be a
tremendous shortage of males, and all profes-
sional soldiers will be slaughtered or die of
senile decay. And a great forgetfulness will
settle over the earth. Men will have for-
gotten how to drive tram-cars or manufac-
ture black felt hats. The shops will close,
and the grass will grow long in the streets,
for there will be nobody left to mow it down.
“Civilisation will peter slowly out. lnit
the wars will drag on. There won’t be many
soldiers left, and even their commanders
won’t be really sure what they are fighting
about or whom they are fighting against.
Aobody will remember what country it was
that conquered his last, or where the frontiers
were drawn in the latest map issued, and
citizens will forget the name of the capital
of their own country, or whether it is occu-
pied by the enemy, or whether their army is
occupying some other nation’s capital. And
urgent letters addressed to monarchs. or
Prime Ministers will be returned with the
remark: ‘Not known at this addresstry
Minsk or Tomsk, or Pekin or Puebla or
Woolloomooloo.’
“And gradually the remains of shat-
tered armies will settle down and form little
nations of their own. and put up fortifica-
tions, and grow crops behind them. So at
last there will come about the same condition
of things that ushered in the Dark Ages.
Yes, we’re in for the Dark Ages again,
though none of us will see them, or know
how Dark they really were or could be. My
own idea is that they were a sort of brown
or khaki —not really black. However, our
grandchildren will find out. The new Dark
Ages that are coming may even be blonde.
“That is really when peace will ue
declared. The nations will be broken up
into little feudal communities or tribes, eacli
acting on the defensive against marauding
bandits, each solely interested in its little
walled castle and the green fields lying
beneath. And feudal barons will arise and
carry on futile wars with other feudal barons,
lighting with pikes and pointed stakes, for
the world will have forgotten how to make
gunpowder. . , _ , .
“And then after centuries of Dark Age
there will come another Renaissance. Some
learned scholar will discover the lost Aus-
tralian Civilisation. Ancient authors like
O’Dowd and Hansard and Beli.erive will
)> e discovered. Their hallowed old works
will be unearthed and with infinite pains
translated ; and the world will once more start
slowly up the long road of civilisation.
The little man looked up. “Friends,” he
went on. But I was the only friend. The others
had drifted away. A patient waitress woke up
and intimated sharply that she wanted to
swish down the white table. The little man
sighed wearily and got up. The waitress and
I watched him pay his sixpence and go.
“Who’s that chap?” I asked the waitress.
“Him? Oh, he keeps a lolly-shop. Talks
a lot, doesn’t he?” , , .
But neither of us guessed that the prophet
of the lollv-shop would go down in history,
or legend, 'as the heroic defender of the last
of the Eskimo and the Aztecs in the highest
passes of the Himalayas. For it was ho.
and no other, that, at the head of his famou:.
regiment, made that stirring fight for free-
dom in the third set, or series, or wars after
the great war of 19i4. Freedom is rumored
to have shrieked when he fell. __ -
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Care
THE BEST REMEDY IN THE WORLD FOR
COUGHS, COLDS & CROUP
DOSE of this Wonderful .Remedy will very often prove
sufficient if taken at the commencement of a Cold; but the class
of case that HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure fairly Revels in is one
that the Ordinary Remedies have Failed to make any impression
upon. Herein lies the Real Value of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure —a
Medicine that can be given with Perfect Safety and Complete
Confidence to the Youngest Children and very Aged sufferers as it
does Not and has Never contained any Poison or Harmful Drugs.
We, the Manufacturers, absolutely Guarantee this.
Price 2/6 and 4/6
If you cannot obtain
HEARNE’S from your
local Chemist or Store,
send direct to—
W. G. Hearne
& Co. Ltd.,
GEELONG,
Victoria.
WA
%
&
4 &
J),
((lIUI
1/
K
Jfc?
'/ini,
m
iy
««
%
%
£2
'///.
Sg
WA
S-Y&
I
7%
'fM
V 'ittii
W
skv
\
11^
in
m
v w
Hrili
as
YY
Y-ty,
t
'Ad
iljt
$$
f?
»f
3^
5>S
&
S£
f
€
¥9
sm
SN
l
nil
Rest and Comfort
for
. the mother, and health for the baby follow the
use of the ‘Allenburys’ Foods. They resemble
healthy human milk, in composition, nutri-
tive value and digesvibility. Babies fed on
the ‘Allenburys’ Foods invariably thrive well.
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING __
AND MANAGEMENT FREE.
MILK FOOD No. 1. MILK FOOD No. 2.
From birth to 3 months. From 3 to 6 months.
MALTED FOOD NO. 3.
From 0 months upwards.
The ‘Allenburys’ Rusks
(Malted).
A valuable addition to the baby’s dietary when
ten months old and after. They provide an
excellent, nourishing and appetising meal,
specially useful during the troublesome time
of teething. Eaten dry they mechanically aid
the cutting of teeth.
Allen a Hanburys Ltd., London, England, and Market Street, Sydney.
iailenburgs Foods
There is uo need for Australians lo
use
imported tooth pastes. The proprie-
tors of
EUPENTA
invite The Bulletin readers to test
without expense this popular
TOOTH PASTE
No dentifrice from abroad can compare
with the peppermint flavored (blue
box) Eudenta.
1/- per tube.
Write to
ROCKE, TOMPSITT 8 C)., Melbourne,
for a free sample, or, if Eudenta is un-
obtainable from your chemist or store,
send 1/3 in stamps for a large tube.
■■•Mch will be sent post free.
EUDENTA Preserves and
Whitens the Teeth.
THE LONE HAND ” for Good Stories and Bright Articles.
Price 6d.


15ct. Gold and Platinoid Brooch,
set pearls and aquamarines, £6/10/-.
Oct. Gold Brooch, set pearls and
garnet or amethyst, 12/6.
s)ct. Gold Brace-
let, set diamonds and
red stones, 35/-
Oct. (»old
Earrings,
set pearls
and garnets,
20/-
30-
35/,-
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless Lever Watch, non-magnetic,
full jewelled, patent time spring, com-
pensation balance, 30/-. Extra jewelled,
35/-, 40/-. Gold-cased, 84/-. Solid
Gold, £7/10/-
r
f
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER
Gifts forthe Bride-to-be.
Charming Designs from Australia’s Great Jewellery
Palate, where your order will be personally executed
and promptly despatched.
Oct. Gold Links,
richly engraved, 20/-
15ct. Gold, 40/-
9ct. Goltl Spray Brooch,
set pearls and turquoise, 8/6.
Oct. Gold Fancy Spray
Brooch, set pearls and turquoise, or
all pearls, 20/-
9ct. Gold Pendant,
set pearls and amethyst
or garnet, 17/6.
18ct. G o 1 (1
Diamond Clus-
ter Kin g,
18ct. Go 1 d,
set cl iainond s,
rubies or sapphires,
£5/10/-
15ct. Oo 1 <l,
30/-. 18ct.
Gold, 40/-
15ct. Gold,
25/-. 1 Set-
Gold, 30/-
40
-r s
»V"Au isr r>«>-
Cl 'VEDDINC
15ct. Go 1 tl,
40/-. 18ct.
Gold, 50/-
IBct. dole!
King, set dia
monds, £lO.
Oct. Gold 10/-
15ct. Gold 15/
18ct. Gold.
all diamond clus-
ter rinsr.
£22/10/-
f
9ct. Gold, set
pearls and ame-
thysts or red stones,
25/-
WRITE FOR OUR SUPERB NEW
JEWELLERY SUPPLEMENT.
;
&
Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Watch
Bracelet, Ml jewelled, lever movement, £4/10/-
807=817 George Street,
Railway SYDNEY.
Oct. Gold Sove*
reign and Half-
Sovereign Purse,
£4. Plain, £3/15/-
loct. Gold Brooch, set pure
cut diamonds, £5, £7/10/*
15ct.
Bi*ooch
lines or
Gold and Platinoid
, set diamonds and tourma-
aquamarines, £5/10/*
9ct. (jiolcl
Earrings,
set pearls
and garnets,
17/0,
9ct. Gold Half
Round Bracelet,
richly chased, safety
chain, £2. 15ct. Gold,
£3/10/-
Gent.’s NicKei r* on-magnetic
Keyless Lever, full jewelled,
patent balance, non-magnetic, time
spring, dust- and water-proof cases,
20/-. Higher grades,' 25/-, 30/-
20/-
251-
2*o
im
[y7IHCARHf|
Weak, Anaemi
1 Nervy,’ Run-down
‘ A case for ‘ Wincarnis
Enjoying New Life
and New Health —
thanks to ‘Wint.'arnis’
Are you
Weak?
Are you
Anaemic ?
If so, you need suffer no longer. Because “Winearnis”. will
give you neiv health, new strength, new vitality, and new life.
“Winearnis” is a Tonic, a Restorative, a Blood-maker and
a Nerve Food —all combined in one clear, delicious
beverage. Therefore, when you take “Winearnis” you
obtain its four-fold benefits —all at once. It gives new
strength to the Weak —new blood to the Anaemic —new
vigor to the “Run-down” —new nerves to Nerve sufferers--
new vitality to Old people—sleep to the Sleepless —new
Are you
* Nervy?*
Are you
Run-down ?
energy to tlie Exhausted—and new health to Everyone. It
does not merely “patch you up”—it gives you new life.
Don't continue to suffer needlessly. Take “Wincarnis” and
begin to get well to-day. Remember that “Wincarnis” has a
reputation of nearly 30 years’ standing—that it has given new
health and new life to countless thousands of sufferers —and
that it is recommended by over 10,000 Doctors. To-day is
the best day to begin to get well. Will you try just one
bottle ?
Begin to Get
Well TO-DAY.
Buy a Bottle of
“Wincarnis” to=day
and test its marvellous
strengthening
properties.
m/t
*****
l
myyy?v
r
yvvtvyyvyv
vvvw
/V;e Wine of Life
•t
You can obtain
“Wincarnis” from
your Wine Merchant
or your Licensed
Chemist or Grocer.
Recommended by Over 10,000 Docflors.


Amusements.
Harry
Governing
M ATI NICKS:
Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Director HUGH 1). McINTOSH.
I'VKItY EVENING. AT 8.
WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY AT 2.30.
T 1 Ij 1 TII EA T K E. SYDNEY.
DT NQUE V ALLT, L’lncomparable.
I>KI TT TATE, the Californian Girl.
BARONESS D’ASTREEL
. -....... -V/ HERMAN, “The Bltici; Laugh.”
' Vr K|;NK : TED MERC ELL ; POWER BROS. ;
lAFT: MARCO k EAUCIION WOLI-'E.
UAM MON & WYATT. WELCH & CARBASBE.
__ x J > ‘ ari at Theatre ami Nicholson’s.
TIVOLI THE A THE, MELBOURNE.
FLORENCE SMITHSON.
RUSSELL & HELD. TOM KELLY.
JEROME & CARSON. AL ROVER.
ROBERTS & LESTER. DEXTER.
PHIL KAUFMAN. DE DIO.
Ron: Plan at Glens. PRICES: 4/-, 3/-. 2/-, 1/-.
T* IV ° L I TIIEA T R E, ADELAIDE
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
DUSTY RHODES. TEDDY.
TORINO. CARPATU BROS.
EUGENE DAMOND.
RICH & GALVIN.
RALPH ERROLLE. ADELE BARTLETTE.
STEELING & REVELL.
|~I F U A! A J E S T Y ’ S, S Y D N E Y.
Direction ,1. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
•I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
THE NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY
In a Musical Play in Three Acts,
THE GIRL IN THE TAXI.
PLANS AT PA DING’S.
THE A T It E It O V A 1.. S Y D X E V
* EVERY EVENING, AT 7.45.
NELLIE STEWART as Mme. DU BARRY
In George Musgrove’s production of BELASCO’S
Great Play,
DU BAlilt Y,
Supported by Mr. Clarence Blakiston, Mr. Lewis
Willoughby and a big company of well-known
favorites.
PRICES AS USUAL.
A*>El,l* II i T|| |<; ATIt E. SYI)N E Y.
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
Last Nights of THE SOLDIER S WEDDING.
NEXT SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 12.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, in conjunction with E. .1.
CAR POLL, will present, for the first time in Sydney,
the most talked about play in America, entitled
THE ROSA ItY.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-, Plan at Nicholson’s.
|V| A T 1 O N A L T II E A T It E, S Y D N E Y.
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.
At 2.30, VAUDEVILLE TWICE DAILY, at 8.
M- k Oil. BARGAIN MATINEES DAILY. 1/- k fid
CUNNINGHAM & ROSE, SCHELL’S LIONS,
CASSELLI SISTERS, BRENT HAYES, LYONS
& CULLUM, THE STRATTONS, WHITE & GREY,
MILLIE DORIS, CROTTON & SKREMKA, THE
WALDRONS, k BILLY WATSON.
Evening Prices as Usual.
Phone Central 906 for Reservations.
aMI*EIt I A I. SALON D E LUXE.
■ • Manager: MICHAEL JOSEPH.
DANCING
EYE R Y EVENING.
i
PRICES AS USUAL.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
THE PICTUHE BLOCK THEATRES,
■ In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL. EMPRESS, 1
Ihe finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing j
select programs of the world's best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to II p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
CREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD. j
IV. Bariiikgton Miu.iiii, General Manager.
QLACIAHIU.M AND OLYMPIA. SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENT BY
WILT’S RICH HUS, LTD.
‘BEST OE ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEES—SA TURD AY.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plans at Nicholson's (No Extra Fee).
g PE NC E IPS LYCEUM, SYDN E Y.
THE WORLD’S BEST PICTURES.
, EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE—WEDNESDAY, AT 2.30.
A GREAT PROGRAMME, consisting of TOPICAL ;
DRAMATIC, SCENIC and COMEDY SUBJECTS.
Prices: 1/6, 1L k 6d. Plan at Paling’s k White Rose.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELIIOU RNE.
1 Sole Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
E. J. CARROLL, in conjunction with J. C.
WILLIAMSON LTD., presents
RUNTY PULLS THE STRINGS.
By GRAHAM MOFFAT.
Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/-.
U 10 It MAJESTY’S Til EAT It 10. MELBOURNE.
r ■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
gipsy" LOVE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 65., 45., 2s. and Is.
TH EATIt IS It OVA L. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 12.
MONSIEUR BEAUCAIRE.
FOR SIX NIGHTS ONLY.
PRICES: Dress Circle ami Reserved Stalls, 6/-•
Stalls. 4.1- ; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan's.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LID.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
GEO. WILLOUGHBY, LID., present, in conjunction
with Beaumont Smith and Louis Merer,
THE GLAD EYE,
the FUNNIEST PLAY WITHIN MEMORY.
Prices: D.C. and R.S., 7/6. Plan at Pianola.
Amusements.
DUO U T II E A T II K
U FULLER-BRENNAN
Governing Director
M E L II O l K N IS.
VAUDEVILLE.
BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON, 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
THE HARTLEY WONDERS. FRED SWIFT.
IHE GREAT WESTTN. MATILDE A' ELVIRA.
CARPOS BROTHERS. DOROTHY HARRIS
LESLIE & SOL BERN. SUMNER
. THREE NEVILLE GIRLS,
rices: 2/C, 2/-, I/- A fid. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- & Cd.
M
E I, II O C li N K
GLACIA It I U M
ICE-SK A T I N G.
SEASON POSITIVELY CI.OS MS
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT.
E* I li C H & CARROLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE
Business Announcements.
Queensland Park Saddle
A splendid saddle for general use. Made on best
English tree, with Plated Bars and Double Gullet,
and is built of best material throughout.
This saddle has hogskin seat, and pails, extra long
flaps. Victoria panel, deep, sweepy seat, nickel-plated
4-bar irons, folded girth, £S/19/(i Complete, add
exchange. Mention The Bulletin when ordering.
A surcingle will lie given free. This saddle is for
warded freight paid to any railway station or port.
N.S.W., or any port Queensland. Obtained from
J. P. TALTY, Manufacturer, 388 SUSSEX
STREET, SYDNEY.
Improve Your Singing
and Manner of Speech
Professional singers and amateurs find the
Edison Home Recording Outfit of inestimable
benefit. It repeats just what you sing into
it, and enables you to at once detect and
eliminate any faults.
Clergymen, parliamentarians, actors, de-
baters, salesmen and others find it invaluable
in perfecting their manner of speech.
The Outfit costs £2—Recorder, 15/-;
Shaving Machine, 25/-; Blank Record Cylin-
ders, 1/- each.
If your phonograph is equipped with a
Reproducer Arm to hold Model “0” and
Diamond Reproducers, it is necessary for us
to supply an Adapter Ring, which is 2/6 extra.
For the Concert or Ariiberola Phonographs,
which have stationary Reproducer Arms, it
is necessary to supply a special Recorder Arm
and a Recording Horn. The Recorder Arm
is Os.' extra, and the Recording Horn costs
2/6.
The Complete Outfit —or any part desired —-
is obtainable at most Edison dealers. If not
procurable locally, write for “The Modern
Blarney Stone,” a booklet giving full details.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
WEBSTER'S """"
VEST-POCKET DICTIONARY
contains 51,200 words with their correct
meanings, rules for spelling, pronunciation,
punctuation, use of capitals, weights and’
measures, &c. Well bound in silken cloth,
clear print on good paper, onlv 2'/, by Stf
inches, will slip into any vest Docket; always
handy lor reference, with Mar ginal Index,
so you can turn up any word in a moment.
Only MinO PonG6y posted anywhere.
The Union Co.. 239 Elizabeth Street. Melh.
When something is wanted
to put on a burn or scald,
to heal a cut, scratch,
or skin sore, apply
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment
It soon relieves the soreness and pro-
motes a qui k cure, while for a skin
wound especially its antiseptic virtue is
important. On other occasions also
it is useful—for insect bites or stings,
for eczema, ringworm, and skin ail-
ments generally——whenever a healing
antiseptic ointment is needed.
Local Stores and Chemists sell it.
Made by F.C.CALVERI' & Co., Manchester, Ehia
Australian
Kstaisi.ishkii 1840..
Mutual Provident Society.
lor Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
or Sutiurban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined). Pastoral and Agrricultural Lands, or on the Security of Government
Debentures, inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or v,.,.
Zeala,,fl - WAT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borroweis the privilege ol renavin"
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or ■ paymciif of anv' fine"
Dm icc to its —The lion. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman; The Hon. J. T. AYffli'er. T)epiity-Chairm:;h • The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black,M.L.C. : The Hon. F. E. Winchombc, M.L.C. : Adrian
Knox. Esq., K.C. ; Sir Alex. MacGormick, M.D. General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teec'e Ff A
F.F.A., F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE; 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY. Secretarc. ”
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
E
The Youngsters
enjoy mowing with
DANKS’
“SHEFFIELD” MOWER
Look hero, this “.Sheffield” is a splendid
Mower, costing only 24/-. Made of line
material, superbly finished, and possessing
the advantages of dearer makes without the
price. We tell you, you needn’t pay more
to get mower satisfaction. Runs like a bike,
needs the least attention. A clean short
cutter.
Other Styles from
15/- to 40 -
l
i
iU;
It
“'M
**
mm
4
wmm m
Bss
i
i_ -
The House
for Mowers
and
Windmills.
JOHN DANKS &SON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
Sydney and Melbourne.
324 Pitt
St., near
Liverpool
St., Sydney.
THE GIFT
par excellence !
//m’ Gift trill be appreciated most where Refinement is
Hie keynote. Probably yon can easily call to mind </,
hanyij nanny couple who jit this condition cwadly; who
would keenly value your discernment and generosity.
IBP
a
02404.—Consists of Half-dozen Best-quality,
I Silver-plated Fish Knives and Forks, in handsome
Case. •Price |
Postage Paid on all Goods to any Address in Australia.
Illustrated Catalog Free on Request.
miL
(-AUSTRALIA)
LTD


TOO WEAK TO WALK.
DUE TO WORM FEVER.
SURPRISING RESULTS OBTAINED
FROM COMSTOCK’S “DEAD SHOT”
WORM PELLETS.
Children are often suffering from worms,
and even some have worm fever without
their parents realising the cause of illness.
A notable instance is that of Baby Weiss,
m
<lfSF#
V
(from a photo.)
whose photo is re*
produced, in addi-
tion to t h e
mother’s lett e r.
This lady states
t lie child was too
weak to walk, ow-
ing to no other
reason than the
presence of these
parasites in the
system, and the
only remedy that
exterminated them
was Comstock’s
“D e a d S h o t”
Worm Pellets.
“My little girl, now four and a half years
of age, was suffering for over four years.”
writes Mrs. F. Weiss, of 96 Itedfern Street.
Iledfern, Sydney, N.S.W. “She appeared
to have consumption of the bowels, and I
took her to the hospital, where they pre-
scribed powders, which I gave her, but did
not seem to do any good. I then discovered
she had worm fever, and tried various medi-
cines, which, although they caused her to
pass some worms, only afforded temporary
relief. One day I received one of your
books describing what Comstock’s ‘Dead
Shot’ Worm Pellets had done for other chil-
dren, and I straight away procured a packet.
After the first dose, the result was simply
marvellous, the child passing hundreds of
worms. This was four months ago. I have
since continued the treatment, and feel sure
she is now practically rid of them. Whereas
previously my daughter was very thin, and
that weak she could not walk, she is now full
of life and energy, and for this I have to
thank Comstock’s ‘Dead Shot’ Worm Pel-
lets. You have my permission to use this
for advertising purposes, and I shall be only
too pleased to recommend them at every
opportunity.”
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal preparation
for the eradication of worms in children and
adults. For sale by all chemists and store-
keepers, price 2s. 9d. per packet; or will he
sent post paid at the same price by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.. 22 Lang Street,
Church Hill. Sydney.*
DANIELU
HOTEL,|
BRISBANE,
810-SHOWMEN!
THERE'S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George
Street, Sydney.
TO DEVELOP THE BUST.
A simple, safe and harmless way in which
any lady, no matter how thin or old, can
increase her bust development, from two o
live inches in a few weeks is to take ~u
grains of phormoid, a standard concentrated
food product, just before each meal. *.°r
convenience, it is best to ask your chernis-
to supply you with the standard phormoid
tablets, which contain 20 grains each. J? or
a few shillings you can get enough to last
you two weeks, during which time your bust
should develop from one to two inches.
Manv ladies report five inches development
in four weeks, and at the sime time marked
improvement in the general health, i hoi-
moid is pleasant to the taste. s** 5 **
POLITICAL
POINTS
“Hamer”: Costs, which always come in
somewhere, are going to get the usual cut
out of the elections. Writs are already in
the air, demanding heavy compensation for
alleged damage, riot, injury, depreciation
and snuffle inflicted during the campaign.
The biggest claim is that of Fisher against
Archdale Parkhill, who made allegations of
disloyalty against the Labor leader. That
claim runs to £10,000. There are at least
three other actions in New South Wales and
four in Victoria, and rumors of others in
South Australia and Queensland. One of
these is the action of a Liberal candidate
against a Labor man. The Labor member
got possession by purchase of two cheques,
alleged to have been drawn by the Liberal,
cashed with a supporter, and dishonored;
and the Labor man published the alleged
facts. The rest of the details will have to
be dragged out by the horse-liair brigade.
By C. A. Jeffries, 214 George-street,
Sydney:—
Patriotism has long been utilised as the last haven
of scoundrels, but it never dreamed that it would be
the final refuge of Joe Cook. Cook is not a scoundrel,
not even a political one. He is merely the incarnation
of futility. He started out with the idea of deceiv-
ing the electors on his sometime attitude on Aus-
tralian defence and in the end he succeeded in
deceiving himself. He apparently got to the state
in which he believed his own fairy tales.
Some wise person has proposed that work
should be found for the unemployed, while
things are slack, at repairing the roads of
Australia. The idea is good in its way, and
the roads are mostly bad. Incidentally
England has wonderfully fine roads. They
are acquired by the simple process of paying
for them out of local rates. Local rates
often run up to 9s. in the £.
• There are three ways of making war. One
is to fight at the end of a fairly efficient
railway service, which can bring up men
and stores, and carry the wounded out of
the road. That is what the fairly
efficient Russian Bear is doing now. Another
way is to fight at the end of an immensely
long single line, which soon becomes blocked
with the overwhelming mass of traffic. That
is how such a very inefficient Bear happened
along in the Russo-Jap. campaign. A third
way. and the most hopeless one, is to fight
at the end of no railway at all. There is
now a pause for deep thought.
The red-raggers and impossibles and irre-
concilables and peace-at-any-price crowd at
Broken 11 ill had bad luck last Friday. It
gathered at the railway station to boo-lioo
a few men who had volunteered for the
defence of Australia. Whereupon a multi-
tude grew suddenly angry, and threw the
hall, which is the habitual meeting-nlace
of the impossibles, into its own backyard, a
complete wreck. Of course the gang which
had just been jeering at Defence proceeded
to defend its property like the very Devil,
and put up a notable fight for peace. But
it was routed with much nose-bloodshed.
Out of the welter of last week’s war news
the most humorous scrap was that about
the going over to the Russians of an entire
Polish regiment “with colors and band."
The laborious lugging away of the
cumbersome big drum and the unwieldy trom-
bone gives the job an air of com-
pleteness which it would otherwise lack. It
is akin to the performance of the absconding
wife who flies gradually towards the waiting
co-re. in a furniture van along with her law-
ful husband’s grand piano.
Government contractors in Sydney lately
held a pow-wow, or war-dance, or some-
thing, when—
It was pointed out that many contracts had only
been let during the last couple of months, and that
contractors had no chance of getting their stocks.
This applied more particularly to houses who dealt
with German firms, and who tendered for the supply
of goods, where German-made goods were specified,
....It was suggested that some proposal should be
made by which a percentage increase on the contract
price should be allowed. On this point some con-
tractors who had met the Tender Board and dis-
cussed the position with them, said that the Govern-
ment was prepared to meet contractors in a reason-
able spirit.
Just so. But it's a pity the urbane Govern-
ment didn’t exhibit its reasonable spirit
towards the State and the Empire before-
hand by severely discouraging the use of
“German-made goods” in its departments,
instead of. as it seems, in some instances
demanding them in specifications.
DEN CONQUERORS.
German Samoa, it is officially announced, has sur-
rendered to the British forces. The occupation was
effected quietly.
THE COLONIST: "H[?]h der-Gott safe."
A side issue of the war is the fact that
the infuriated Russ has changed the name
of his capital from St. Petersburg to Petro-
grad. The old name had something of a
German sound, Peter the Great, who built
the place, having a certain craze for Ger-
man ideas. But the Russ hates the German
with a hatred that is larger than a pyramid,
and he drinks his vodka with better heart
now that the ancient designation is gone.
WAR ITEM.-"MOBILISATION!"
It was announced just before the election
that if Cook became Prime Minister again
he intended to spend £250,000 on immigra-
tion next year. It was also announced
that unemployed were beginning to appear
in the land. And it wasn't announced that
Cook proposed to do anything to the tariff
in order to provide work either for the
unemployed or the immigrants.
[James Edmond, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
By F. E. Jones, Elgar-road, Bur wood.
Victoria: —•
The cable does give us news at times. Were it not
for that usually unreliable source of information we
might not have known for months that an Australian-
Maoriland expeditionary force, convoyed by Australian
ships, had occupied Samoa, and was proceeding to lay
violent hands on other German possessions in the
Pacific. Heaven knows why information as to the
raising and despatch of this force should have been
withheld. Britain could tell of its far more conse-
quential undertaking, and foreign neutral papers got
news of Australia’s intentions weeks ago.
Despite all the clamor about the “in-
decency” and “impropriety” and so forth
of holding a Federal election during war
time it can’t be said that there was any-
thing visibly profane or nude about Satur-
day’s proceedings. No one swore or mixed-
bathed more than usual. No one interfered
with the wmr. People drank less than ordi-
nary. because the hotels were closed for 12
hours. Almost the only breach in the har-
mony of the proceedings was the serving of a
writ by parson Yarrington upon Howard
Catts, demanding £3OOO for alleged libel.
If the things that Catts said about Yarring-
ton were worth £3OOO, and if
political reputation is worth £3OOO, and if
Catts has £3OOO about him the judgment of
this paper is that the action is cheap at the
price.
[James Edmond, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
This is the case put short: —-
(V) Britain used to make its own chloroform and
ether.
(2) Under its Freetrade system the business was
allowed lo slip away to Germany.
(3) The German supply is cut off.
(4) Britain wants all the anaesthetic it can get for
its own use.
(5) Australia can’t get any.
(6) The goods can be made here, but if, through
lack of Protection, the trade is to go straight back
to Germany when the war is over, who will put up
the money for the necessary plant? Everybody thinks
someone else should do it.
(7) Are we to have some Protection, or would the
Government prefer that the patient should simply be
stunned with a sandbag before his appendix is cut
out?
[F. C. Jones, Elgar-road, Burwood, Victoria.]
The Vic. Legislature lately told Private
Enterprise, per the Workmen’s Compensation
Act, that it would in future have to insure
its employees, either in its own institutions
or in one to be set up by the State. The other
day the local Chamber of Manufactures
seized an official of the Colonial Mutual In-
surance Co., appointed him manager of its
just-formed Co-operative Insurance Co., Ltd.,
and told him to bog into the job of in-
suring its several and various mem-
bers against the risks of workmen’s com-
pensation, employers’ liability, guarantee,
third party, and so forth. The co.’s nominal
capital is £lOO.OOO, *of which £30,000 is paid
up. Its rates are to be “no higher than”
those of the established assurance companies
—and of course these latter love it like a
brother —even like the first brother on record.
In war chivalry and mercy accompany the
love of right. And the right must prevail,
especially when those leading its defenders
obtain their best inspiration from the genial
spirit of King George IV. topnotch Scotch.*
“F.H.”: Norman Bayles, M.L.A. for
Toorak (Vie.), after remaining almost un-
noticed by the daily press for several months,
has claimed attention with a mixed meta-
phor of unusual richness. Speaking of the
“difficulties” which his mind foresaw as to.
“fixing prices for thousands of lines ot
food,” Bayles drew a cackle of disapproval
from Premier Peacock. Whereupon N. B.
unloaded this: “It’s no use the Premier
pirouetting on his seat and flying off at a
tangent like a hen sitting on eggs.
(Cheers.)
“Y.T.0.”: The first war case has been
heard in Adelaide police-court. A man who
said he left Hanover in 1866, that he is a
good Australian, and that lie has a son in
the defence force, < bjected to being called “a
one-eyed German.’' The defence was that
it is not an insult to call a Hanoverian a
German, and that —informant obviously hav-
ing two eyes—! ! ! The rest was merely
idle talk. The P.M. felt doubtful, but. dis-
missed the case. Perhaps the P.M. didn’t
know much history. Hanover supplied
Britain with its royal family. The krng-
THE HORSE THAT DIDN'T RISE TO
THE OCCASION.
[Devised and drawn by EDWARD COLLES, Belgrave-
street, Manly, N.S.W.]
doms afterwards separated, but Hanover
was the maddest place in Europe when the
Prussians stole it from its blind king
Queen Victoria’s relative —in 1860. the
Prussian nation, which supplies the family
of William Holienzollern. isn’t really Her-
man, though its raving potentate is by acci-
dent the German Emperor. And so long as
William Hohenzollern, the Prussian, is
allowed to call himself German, there are
quite a number of real Germans who would
as soon call themselves Bulgai in order
to differentiate themselves from W. Ilohen-
zollern.
THE ELECTION (WHICHEVER WAY IT WENT).
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the Ship that Jack built!
This is the Ship, Australia hight, to which we look
for a glorious fight for the life of the nation
Jack built.
This is the question people ask- —to answer the same is
a difficult task. They put the query: “Who is
Jack?" and get no definite answer back--for,
truly, nobody seems to know. Some say “Andy,
and some say “Joe : but others have goi to
face the foe on the deck of the Ship that Jack
built.
This was the state of affairs the day the Federal
Poll was taken. Say! -Do you think statesmen
should scratch and squall like cats on top of a
garden wall, with “1 did this'.’’ and “I did
that!” till anyone else would bet. his hat that
only here could a sight be seen so sick and
sorry, so small and mean, in a land where men
go forth to fight, as a paltry pair whose sole
delight is claiming the Ship that Jack built!
This is the crowd that pays the duns, that lodges the
•otes, that carries the guns; the adequate crowd
hat goes to the front to face the battle and bear
lie brunt; the steadfast crowd supplying the
crew for a ship to do what she has to do; the
marching crowd with sisters and wives who pray
for brothers and husbands’ lives that travel the
road to Kingdom Come —the crowd, in short, that
follows the drum ! And what do you think they
were booked to do? To cast a vote for one of the
two who covet the Ship that Jack built!
[ln witness whereof, according to the statute in
such case made and provided, Guy E. M. Innes, 46
Kooyongkoot-road, Hawthorn, Victoria.]


A Sound Investment
Buy a Player Piano from
Paling’s. You will never
regret your purchase, the
pleasure you obtain will
astonish and delight you.
In their various grades
they are absolutely the
Very Best Value that
money can possibly buy.
Let us send you an inter-
esting Art Booklet —post
free. Write to-day.
“The World’s Standard”
They are made in America, the home of
reed-organ building, and are suitable for
Home use, Churches, Chapels, Mission
Halls and Convents, etc. ■ Our selection
includes small fold-up organs for camp
and open-air use. The model below is
Style 1232. Price £23. Easy Terms.
Others from £lO/10/-
trwr%
Also VICTOR PIANOS, SAMES, RONISCH, LIPP & BELLING PIANOS
WRITE TO-DAY for CATALOGUE and PRICE LIST POST FREE
Easy Time Payments
SUP
BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, LISMORE,
TOOWOOMBA
Country Customers
may rely upon obtaining
a sound and thoroughly
reliable Player Piano,
Piano and Organ, or
other Musical Instrument
when they leave the
selection to us.
Every instrument is made
of the Finest Material
and fully guaranteed by
us for Durability and
Satisfaction.
KWhen writing please
mention which instru-
ment you are interested
in.
They have no Equal
The proof of this assertion will be found
in the instruments themselves. They
are constructed of the very finest
materials, and have been specially selected
for Australia—will lasi a lifetime. Our
illustration shows Model 547, an artis-
tic ' Organ, fully guaranteed. Price
£4O. Easy Terms.
The World-wide Popularity of Deering & McCormick Binders
is Solidly Based on Satisfactory Service to Farmers
*los!Mile
PEERING
I am well satisfied with the Deer-
ing Binder. It is the best binder I
have ever worked.
Cut over one hundred (100) acres,
and never lost five minutes with it.
JAMES KEY,
Broken Dam, N.S.W.
I am very well pleased with the Deering
Binder which I purchased from you this
season. Without the aid of an expert I
s arted machine, and cut one hundred and
twenty (120) acres, some of it on rough land,
and had not the slightest hitch.
I found the Deering to be easy running,
and in every way am pleased with the
machine.—GEOßGE JAYNES, Dowerin,w.A.
I have used the Deering Binder for the Inst nine (9)
seasons. I cut the first year three hundred (300)
acres in three weeks, over very rough Mt. Gambier
country—full of rabbit holes, stumps, and tussocks.
Altogether I have cut two thousand (2,000 j odd acres
at a cost of 15 - for fittings.
In my opinion there is no machine made that can
equal the Deering, and I should certainly have another
of the same make if I should require one.
C. KAUBE, Casterton, Vic.
The Two
Machines that
gather more than
half the World’s
Bread Supply
i Both are Light in Draft,
l Unusually Durable and
& the Cost of up-keep i
% Triflingly Small, i
Send for
Illustrated
Descriptive
Catalogue
Post Free
for the
Asking
■55=3
1
McCCRMICK
McCO R MICK
The McCormick Binder has given
every satisfaction. I had no trt uMe
in starting it myself, and went right
through the season without a hitch.
E. KLEIN,
Koynga, Vic.
I have now finished reaping some one
hundred (100) odd acres, and have much
pleasure in stating that the McCormick 6 ft.
Reaper and Binder has done splendid work
both in cr p 6 ft. high (originally) cut, and
when cut right on the ground through the
high winds, and also in very short late crop.
We have’ gone through without a hitch of
any sort.-A. L. FAITHFULL, Goulburn,
N.S.W.
The McCormick Binder has given entire satisfaction.
I have cut one hundred and fifty (150) acres, averaging
twelve (12) acres per day, and using sometimes one of
the horses all day, which goes to prove that the
McCormick is a light runner notwithstanding some of
my ground was rough, and the crop heavy and green.
My driver never used a Binder before, which is
sufficent proof that the machine is easily worked.
A. H. McSHANE, Toowoomba, Qld.
200 Roma St., Brisbane.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO. OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
37 Broadway, Sydney. 545-557 Bourke St., Melbourne. 18-20 North Terrace, Adelaide. 361-36 S Murray Street. Perth.
73 York Street, Launceston.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Just one taste of B.L. will prove its high quality.
BULLOCH LADE ("BL”)
Is Good Whisky, and is Good for You.
Is Obtainable Everywhere, but Equalled Nowhere.
ALWAYS SEE S.V.O. WHITE LABEL.
Stay at “Scott’s
H “Scott's” has been entirely rebuilt and
reconstructed, and is now one of the
largest and most sumptuous hotels in
.'Australia.
For “Show” and
“Cup” Seasons
there’s no place so convenient ns
“Scott's,” and to book NOW is best,
so to be sure of accommodation.
Single rooms, double rooms or private
suites.
Private Attendance ’Phones in all
rooms', and Hot and Cold Water Ser-
vice in Bedrooms.
ROOF AND HALL SMOKING
LOUNGES.
Excellent Cuisine. Music by Hotel
Orchestra.
Scott’s Hotel,
Collins St,, Melbourne.
’Phone Central 9012-7.
Write
To=day.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
It may have been the elections, or the
war, or the unduly warm weather, or tile extra
sixpence collected by the League for the Patriotic
Fund—making the charges Is. fid. and 3s.—but for
some reason barely half as many persons as were
present last year viewed the first Vic. League semi-
final at the Metropolitan Cricket Ground on Satur-
day. Both teams, Geelong and South, were in good
fettle, and played heftily, the Seasiders with better
system and surer kicking and the Southerners with
more vim and persistence. At quarter-time the
latter owned 13 points to two. At the interval Geelong
was a point ahead —16 to 15 —and by lemon-time it
was six points ahead. A goal and a behind early in
the last quarter gave ’Long a 13-point lead, and the
contingent of barrackers from Sleoov Shore —3000
strong—roared and screamed - jubilation. But South
wasn’t done yet. Plugging away persistently, it
added single points, till at last a long kick found
Geelong's fullback out of his place, and the bail
went over his head and rolled through. He learnt
no wisdom from the occurrence, and a few minutes
later the same thing happened again—and South
was six to the good. A struggle ensued for the last
five minutes, but the Red-and-Whites staved off the
attack, and won into the final with a total of 44
points to Geelong’s 38.
With the sudden rush of summer-like
weather, football in Sydney is not ending one moment,
too soon. The Rugby League’s sudden-death compe-
tition for the City Cup reached the semi-final stage
when South Sydney and F.astevu Suburbs qualified
for the final by overthrowing Glebe aiid North Syd-
ney. Eastern Suburbs gave Glebe the male parent
of a hiding. From start to finish the Eastern team
was on top of the heap, and it declined to get off for
one moment. At half-time it led by 10 to six, and
when the light failed and the whistle blew the last
thing seen was the ljind hoof of Messenger propelling
the ball over the bar to the bitter end. It soared
clear and made the final figures 26 to nine. South
Sydney fell on the sturdy hillmpn from the northern
side of the Beautiful Wash, and rolled them in the
dust of the Agricultural Ground. At half-time the
Northern team had not scored and South was 16 to
nil. It looked like a debacle, a rout, a Lemberg.
But in the second spell North pulled itself together
somewhat aod succeeded in holding its opponents,
who were beginning to feel the strain of the efforts
of the first half. North managed to put up 19
points while South scored only six. But the sir
were enough, and sent South home victorious by 22
to 10. The final struggle happens next Saturday
afternoon.
* * * .« *
The only struggle in N.S.W. First-Grade
Union toebail on Saturday was the play-off between
North Sydney and St. George, to decide which of them
should meet Western Suburbs. And the probabilities
are that it will prove in the long run to have been
the sort of struggle that Joe Cook put up to meet
Andy Fisher —a terrible lot of hard work in order to
secure a darned good hiding. North Sydney secured
the opportunity by 26 points to seven, ft would have
been about 56 to seven if North Sydney had made the
most of all the chances that came its way. for SI.
George'!was utterly outclassed. [C. A. .Tki'friks, 211
George-street, Sydney.]
In the chaotic N.S.W. Soccer game the
State championship struggle raged between Mere-
wether and Sydney. Heaven only knows how and
when and why. Merewether came into the struggle.
Strange, unheard of clubs lnirl themselves into this
fray, after the manner in which unheard of and
unknown armies hurst into Asia Minor in the days
of the Seliuks. It is weird, but spectacular and inter-
esting. This crowd that came down from Merewether
fell on the crack Sydney team at the Sports Ground
and smashed it up by six to one, and by so doing won
a place in the filial quartet that will battle for the
coveted Gardiner Cup, which is the outward sign of
State championship.
At the Erskineville Oval (Sydney) the
Australian Code final raged between South Sydney
and Sydney District. Favored witli the breeze Sydney
opened the attack. The goal posts seemed too close
together, somehow, and when the first quarter
ended South Sydney had scored one goal
one behind to Sydney’s six behinds, and so
led by seven points to six. South started
an attack in the second, and kept Svdney hard on the
defence, finally breaking through. Then Sydney came
away on the rebound, so to speak, and scored its
first goal. Half-time found the figures 15 to 13 in
favor of the Southern team. Still, it was too close
to be jubilant over, and in the third quarter Sydney,
eager to get level, anticipated the attack. Some good
artillery practice followed. It became apparent that
South had iust about an ounce more quality or luck
or some other decisive factor than Sydney, for the
third quarter found South still leading with 36 to
28. South could score goals, Sydney only behinds;
and goals count six to one. "During the final quarter
both sides struggled furiously. The men who marked
best kicked worst, and the result was much wasted
effort. Sydney seemed to hold its own, but could
make no impression on the margin that meant defeat.
Then, suddenly, its star dipped under the waves, and
the hell rang on South Sydney victorious with 49 to
39. The premiership was won.
* * * *
The Victorian baseballers wound up their
annual round of exercises on Saturday, when, on the
’Roy ground, the locals won the grand or challenge
final from Melbourne by 14 runs to 10. Cricketers
Hansford and Ingleton shone moderately for the big
club, but ’Roy’s all-round excellence and fine hitting
gained it six runs in the eighth innings, and that
settled the issue. Melbourne had been top dog for
seven successive seasons, but this is Fitzroy’s first
pennant.
The crowd behind summer baseball in
Sydney is having far from a rosy time. The
N.S.W. Baseball Association threw the first bomb
into the kitchen when it notified its members chat
crossing to the summer concern’s back yard would
be viewed with hostility. Now the summer base-
ballers are finding it hard to get the necessary
grounds on which to smite and yell. The shindy-
kit had reckoned on placing 32 teams in the various
grades; but. with most of the grounds on lease to
cricket, it finds itself woefully situated. Also, many
teams are going to the war. If the worst comes,
however, the baseballers may find themselves bashing
things in the streets and lanes, or in any old place
within the meaning of the Act.
.Sydney baseball third semi-final on Satur-
day was a succession of surprises. Waverley, with
a record of 14 successive victories this season, had
only to scrunch Leichhardt to take the premiership
—but the task was too great. On the other hand,
Leichhardt stood up and bashed the sea-siders to the
four corners of their cemetery. Also, having done
it, they crowed like a crowd of roosters discovering
the dawn. Still, it was something to crow about,
for Waverlev was defeated by four runs to nil. The
match was a personal triumph for the State’s cham-
pion pitcher, Harold Franks, who blew out the
Waverley batters and put up a sterling performance
by fanning 11 batsmen. In the early matter, Peter-
sham, aided by mistakes, defeated Paddington by
six runs to four. Writer once lived within reach
of a lunatic asylum, hut the-cat-calls, howls, noises
and bellows at Saturday’s match knocked it into a
cocked belltopper. Wild dervishes were not in it
with those awful barrackers, and when a wide ball
from pitcher Franks got past, a squeak'' voice
piped: “Pick ’em out, lad; lie’s got a glass arm!”
Then the pitcher got his punch again, and a thun-
derous Yankee-tuned roar boomed; “That’s pitchin’
fer you, yer cow!” And so Bedlam reigned and
bawled for an hour and a half. Some people do
enjoy life! The absolutely irrevocable final is billed
for the coming Saturday, and anything from a riot
to a murder may be expected to ensue.
SMITING THE WIND.
Whirlwind Shngrue does not whir / fast
enough to stop the flying Fred,
The triumph of Alf Felton in the three-
mile' boat race with Harry I’earee, on Middle
Harbor (Sydney) last Saturday, was only the upris-
ing of youth. Pearce, who has been a good old
’un, lias seen 35 summers, while Felton is a young
giant who passes his age along as 25; and Old Age
(35 years old age) went crash. Felton has been
under the care of Dick Arnst, and evidently the
combined tricks of the two heads worked for success.
Pearce has wisely notified his retirement from the
pastime. In Felton, Australia possesses the material
for a champion, who isn’t likely to let up till lie
gets to the top rung of the world’s water-ladder.
X- * * *
Are we down-hearted. No, hlime! An
effort is being made in Melbourne to raise money
for the construction of an up-to-date cycle and motor
racing track in the Amateur Sports ((round. The
sum of £7500 is required, and if it is forthcoming
it is proposed to put clown a real, up-to-date, three-
laps-to-the-mile track, banked to stand a speed of
90 miles an hour. It will he 33ft. wide, banked
to a height of 21ft., with a curve ranging from 45
to 90 degrees, and will have a surface of vitrified
brick, similar to that used on (he Indianapolis Motor
Speedway in the U.S.
* * * *
Walter Hughes, winner of the Sydney
Metropolitan Billiard Championship vesterweek, is a
promising youth as far as the cue is concerned.
What his other indications are writer knoweth not.
But he will, if he improves as he has come on, surely
end as a mighty billiardist before the Lord —if the
Lord likes that sort of thing. He has just thrown
off knickerbockers (Hughes—not the Lord), and what
Lindrum and Gray have been on the professional side
he is on the amateur wing. Nervous in the begin-
ning, he finished cool as a frozen cucumber and
wiped out swimmer Longworth by 30 in a 600-up
game. A feature of the tournament was the
irruption of a lady contestant, Mrs. George Bell.
But the male section showed no chivalry, and the
lady was defeated by 130 in 500-. ,
On tlie Thames championship course last
Monday English sculler E. Barry successfully defended
his title against Paddon, of Australia, and won in
21min. 28sec. by three lengths. According to the
cabled news he won easily at the end, but in the
beginning and the middle the struggle was exciting.
This is the fastest winning time Barry has put up
on the Thames. In 1912, against Arnst, lie walloped
through the distance in 23min. Bsee.; in a later
portion of the same year he defeated Canadian Durnan
(nephew of Hanlan) in 23min. 31sec. In 1913 he
overthrew Pearce in 24min. 9 2-ssee. So, apparently,
lie is like wine, and growing better with age. But
he is still very far from being a record breaker.
Paddon won the toss, and chose the Surrey side.
Barry, starting with a bound, went ahead. But
Paddon bounded likewise, and 'inside half a mile had
overtaken Ihe champion, and headed him by half a
length. The excitement was something above the
average as they passed Hammersmith Bridge, fighting
it out bow to bow. There Barry demonstrated that
he had sufficient skill to more than hold his own
against his stronger adversary. Thence to the finish
it was a procession, with the second man making-
large efforts to achieve the impossible.
N.S.W. Amateur Athletic Association’s
10-miles championship at Victoria Park (Sydney)
racecourse on,Saturday saw a sustained and strenu-
ous struggle, not to say feud, between Botany and
Redfern. The previous week had seen Redfern down
the Botany brethren at Randwiek in the five-miles
cross-country championships. So in the interval
Botany feasted its marathons on raw meat, and
stayed them with, soup in which a bullock was
boiled down to a pint. When they faced the enemy
again there was fire in their eyes, confidence and
ability in every movement, and determination brooded
on their whiskers. And when the dust blew aside it
was even so—Botany had won with 52 penal points to
Redfern’s 61—the team's seventh victory for this
championship event. The individual struggles gilded
the glittering glories of 11. Harden afresh and pro-
claimed him undoubtedly the finest long-distance
athlete in N.S.W. His victims were P. Longman and
J. Chalmers, who filled second and third places in
that order, and the time of the conqueror was 56min.
7sec. Throughout the season Hayden lias gathered
in a brave succession of “fastest-time trophies,’’ and
by winning the five-miles cross-country and 10-miles
championship on successive week-ends has finished his
season in a blaze of glory. Unfortunately there is
only glory in it. The seven-miles walking champion-
shir) was the curtain-raiser of the flay, and A. W.
Pickard trampled over all opponents and made small
potatoes of them, and glso obliterated them without
any great effort, winning from li. Bonham and R.
Readford in 57min. 561 see.
Motor transport played a pn.iT. in the
German advance through north-west Kranee. When
the British fell back from Moris they were harassed
and worried by armored motoi'-cars»carrying machine
guns and a few riflemen. The Germans seized hun-
dreds of ears in a semi-finished state at Liege, and
finished them off as engines of war. Yet, as a
matter of solrnen fact, no nation was so well equipped
to turn the armored motor loose as Great Britain.
In addition to over 1000 subsidised motor-lorries
there were thousands of commercial vehicles which
could have been called up if necessary. That the
British neglected the possibilities of the motor-car is
quite unthinkable, and only last week it was
announced that the Imperial War Office was calling
for over 400 motor-drivers or chauffeurs. And before
war broke out there were 3000 picked and
skilled drivers enrolled. With the vehicles imme-
diatelv on hand, and the drivers it had enrolled,
the War Office could transport 3000 tons of supplies
along any good road at a rate of 12 miles an hour.
So no doubt a big portion of this fleet of cars is
already operating in France. What is the betting
that when the British force strikes the German
lines of communication the first wave that smites
the staggering Teuton is not the raid of the armed
motor-cars? England alone can turn out 80 of these
vehicles every week to make good the waste of war.
* * * *
There was an ugly mix-up at Adelaide
Tattersall’s meeting, on the Morphettville course.
With watering absolutely prohibited because of the
drought, the dust was bad —and is likely to he
worse. In the two-year-old race, with a field of
21, one youngster galloped on another’s heels in the
dust-cloud, and in a flash five were down and tangled
up. Yet a broken leg and a sprained ankle were the
worst results. In the steeplechase, young Brace-
girdle had his skull fractured in a smashing fall, but
was out of danger in a few days. A simple-looking
spill in the Hurdles was instantly fatal to Lord
Edward, of David James's breeding, and his rider,
A. R. Parrowit, a recent arrival in Adelaide from the
Western District of Victoria, where he had done a
good deal of riding. There is a lot of luck in racing
or hunting falls. Writer has seen, on the same Mor-
phettville course, a jockey thrown on to his head
and his neck seemingly broken. Then the horse
rolled all over him; then it stamped on him hard
with its hoofs in struggling to rise. Killed three
times over to all appearances, ho was all right
ae-ain within a few hours. Yet in a flat, race a
white jacket and cap were suddenly missed from
the running, on the far side. A small white heap
mi the ground was the rider; a larger black heap
was the horse. They had gone down from no appar-
ent eausp, and neither of them ever stirred again.
An item of interest to wowsers is : “Flow
horse-racing spreads in N.S.AY. country districts!”
In the north and nortii-western portion of the Ma
State an association controls 70 race clubs, with
hangers-on representing 64 trainers, 59 jockeys, 61
stable lads, 118 bookmakers and 123 bookies’ clerks;
while the Western Districts distribute patronage
between 73 elubs and another array of the necessary
parasites. How thev all manage to get a crust is
one of the mysteries of the pastime and modern
civilisation.
* * * *
A pretty story comes from Paris via
Yankeeland about the Johnson-Moran fight. A party
of American crooks planned to bribe Oarpentier to
the extent of £5OO to double-cross the big black.
Carpentier was to do one of three things: (1) To
give Moran the decision if he lasted 20 rounds, unless
he was so battered as to make such a decision ludi-
crous. (2) To call the fight a draw if Moran was
hopelesslv beaten. (3) To give Moran the decision
on a foul if Johnson violated the rule in the French
Boxing Federation’s code, which prohibits hitting in
the break-away. Of course, that happens to. he
Johnson’s favorite time to get in that uppercut that
is now so famous. In the 11th round he got it
home coming out of a clinch, and Carpentier
promptly warned him. Had the yarn been true Car-
pentier could have outed Johnson on several small
technicalities; but he didn’t. The amount offered to
induce Carpentier to risk throwing away his great
reputation was mighty small—ridiculously so, in fact.
It sounds like an American fairy tale, and the price
offered suggests that the originator of the yarn meant
it for a joke.
* * *
The seventh annual All-Alaska Sweep-
stakes was successfully run off on April 13, 14, 15
and 16. This is a dog-team race from Nome to
Candle and back, a distance of 408 miles. It is the
great event of Alaska, and creates as much excite-
ment there as the Melbourne Cup does in Australia.
Only four sets of hounds entered this year, and they
were started off together by a “queen” specially
elected for the purpose. This year the lady was 'Miss
Barbara Meister. Accompanied by her maids of
honor she was drawn in a beautifully decorated sledge
by 17 men to the grandstand, where the outfits, ready
to start, awaited her. There seem to be points about
being elected queen. This one received a gold locket
and a nugget chain. The locket had a monogram on
one side and on the other the inscription, “Queen of
All Alaska Sweepstakes, 1914.” What the maids of
honor got, or if they got anything, is not mentioned.
Two of the teams were of 14 dogs, one of 16 and the
other, the winner, a team of 18 Siberian dogs owned
and driven by John Johnson fit seems-impossible to
get away from that name!). These Siberian dogs
were veterans, and they seem to have known their
way around. They completely beat the young dogs
that had been specially bred for the race. On the
16th Johnson blew in an easy victor, with more than
40 miles between him and the next heist. All his
dogs were aged, hot they seem to have stood the cold
high winds better than the pups. The temperature
was often 15 degrees below zero. Somebody said the
Arctic would be a lovely place but for the winds and
the temperature and the scenery and the society.
When Freddie Welsh outpointed Willie
Ritchie for the lightweight championship of the
world at London Olympia recently, he gained only
honor and glory. Not a single shilling came his way,
unless it was in the shape of wagers. Ritchie, holding
the championship, drove a terrific bargain, and had to
receive .-fcsooo win, lose or draw. Welsh was to got
what was left over after paj’ing that huge sum for
60min. of actual fighting. And the money was not
in the house. The nromoters had to make up the
balance of' Rileliie’s money out of their own pockets.
So Welsh scored a record, inasmuch as he is the only
modern boxer to win a championship without mak-
ing a bean out of it. Oddsfish, but ’tis hard, m.v
masters! But, all the same, the championship will
ho worth a small fortune to him. It will bring him
a rich harvest of music-hall engagements if the big
scrap now raging all over Europe does not kill all
music halls. The songs and the patter are hard to
bear amidst the boom of so many guns.
The Yankee sporting papers took the deci-
sion in the Ritchie-Welsh battle very badly, and
loudly declared that it. was only a points victory,
and that Welsh got much the worse hiding of the
two. The Yankee does not believe in a boxing-match,
lie wants a smashing fight. The moral of it- is:
When you fight a Yankee, knock him—no matter how,
hut do it. lie likes it.
* * * *
Tahmray Burns was aboard the Manama
when that elegant Maori land boat had to run a
thousand miles oaf of its course to Honolulu to avoid
the Scharnhorat and Leipzic, (Germany’s two 11,500-
ton cruisers in the Pacific. However, he seems to
have had an enjoyable time, and he writes to friends
in Svdney that iie won many sweeps on the boat.
Incidentally, he declares he will act as fight-manager
no more, lie is off hack to his home in the awful
town of Calgary, in Canada. Before he went we
heard he was likely to settle in Queensland, and go
on the land first and into Parliament second, and
afterwards become Premier and State Governor, and,
finally, Governor-General. Then the next we hear is
that lie's off to Calgary to lead the simple life.
After all the Kay victory over Shugrue
was a vindication of panel' form —a thing that is
mightily seldom vindicated in the boxing sport. Last
time they fought Milburn Saylor beat Shugrue, and
Kav heat Saylor twice in. quick succession. Mostly
the abnormal happens:—that is to sav,' the unusual
is more frequent than the usual, and it is hardly
possible to go out -of doors without falling over the
unique and the unprecedented—but the normal gels
a chance now and then.
The decision of referee Hamid Baker in
the Kav-Shugrue contest at S.vdney Stadium last
Saturday night roused much argument. Mr. Baker
gave it to the Australian on points, but a lot of
people declare it should have gone to Shugrue. The
whole question at issue is: When does a strategic
movement to the rear or the side become a retreat
or a fight? And, apparently, no one seems to know.
Kay does not fight his opponents. He boxes them
and secures his own immunity from punishment by-
keeping out of reach of his opponent's fists: He is
nimble on his feet and light on his toes, and, also,
able to duck with any part of his anatomy. The way
Kay can duck with his bingy is a marvellous thing
to see. Me has .long arms, and while keeping out
of harm's way himself he flicks a long, straggly right
into his opponent's face with a light tap that sends
a blow wiki, hut does no real damage. On Saturday
night the fight consisted of wild charges by Shugrue
trying to get to close quarters, while Kay fled round
the ring and hit as he ran. It is an exposition of
the kind of fighting that Mat Wells showed us the
night he fought Hughie Mehegan. And that was
awarded the verdict, so the referee on Saturday night
was absolutely consistent. When Shugrue got in
close he punished Kay severely, and towards the
tail end of the fight he got in frequently. But what
the average ringsider is apt to forget is that every
time he failed to got into range Kay scored points.
And for every time he arrived where he fain would
be, he missed the mark half a dozen times —-all of
which counted to Kay. The Stadium can hardly dis-
allow that style of fighting. It is perfectly legiti-
mate, and is, indeed, the highest form of boxing,
which is supposed to be the art of self-defence with
the fists. To object to it, or even to discourage it,
would be to confess that the Stadium management
wanted hal'd bloodshed, and not light boxing. At
close quarters Shugrue could do as he liked with
Kay, but that son of King Arthur’s seneschal never
stayed at close quarters long enough to be badly
hurt. He just walked out of reach and poked his
long right into Slmgrue’s eye, nose or mouth. lie
didn’t seem to mind where his fist entered Shugrue.
Kay, had a slight advantage in weight, having turned
the scales at 9st. 101 b. to Shugrue’s 9st. 8111 1. ; but
his real advantage lies in his speedy feet-ancf his long
arms. He seems to know nothing about fighting at
close range, and is not overstocked with wisdom as
to how to conduct it at long range—but his ability
to throw his stomach behind him and gracefully side-
step a wallop that would stagger an elephant, and
then lightly tap the other fellow on the what-ho-
smells-with while still but of range covers a multi-
tude of deficiencies. The only question is whether
Kay is not a little bit too careful to avoid punish-
ment.
Sport generally is suffering through the
war. The teams in every branch of pastime are being
broken tip by the enlistment of members in the Aus-
tralian army for foreign service, and there is no use
trying to disguise the fact that the public interest
is centred on the life-and-death match being played
in Northern France and Eastern Prussia and Galicia.
Still, as the best men enlist, the clubs call up reserves
and continue the struggle, and the fact that there are
so many reserves available speaks well. Tf' we had
onlv as many reserves in a militarv sense, and as well
trained —well, we could defy, like Faulconbridge. the
three corners of the world in arms—and shock them.
FRIENDLY FOOTBALL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I found the push around a tree,
And in the butt a fire alight.
Theyi did not let the sight of me
Delay their innocent delight,
But piled the fire with green gum-boughs,
And dashed the sweat drops from their crows.
Said one: “We’ve had a splendid game,
Of; football here at Wattle Hill.
We put the Crayfish team to shame,
And some of ’em are running still.
The jCrayfish crowd is seven short,
And . football is a noble sport.
“We didn’t play the game right through.
The other side six goals had got,
So there was nothing else to do
But get to them and stop the rot.
The umpire’s hidin’ in this tree;
We’ll smoke the blanker out—you’H see!”
VICTORIA.
SILAS.


WHY DON’T YOU LEARN
TO BSE YOUR HANDS?
You fully realise the importance of knowing how
to defend.yourself. Because self-preservation is part
and parcel of every form of life.
You ought to do something to develop your natural
power. Why not learn to box —learn to use your
hands to the best advantage. Otherwise the time
will surely come when you will bitterly repent your
indecision. Perhaps it may be a matter of life and
death, then—you'll wish in vain.
There's no excuse for you not knowing how to box.
I can teach you in your own home.
I TEAGH BOXING
BY POST
1 thoroughly explain the most serviceable moves
known to Kingcraft. The best moves of the most
famous living boxers will form part of your instruc-
tion. If you were entangled in a mix-up, what a
big advantage you’d have —what confidence you'd
have, and that’s half the battle. Here is a letter
from one pupil:—
“I am getting along splendidly with my
boxing. I am beginning to feel sure of myself.
It is a grand pastime.”
H.E.W., Nimbin, N.S.W.
See how he’s building up confidence, because be knows how. You ought lo learn “how too.
Write for my 32-page booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which describes my methods, and
gives cost of tuition. It’s worth having. Send three penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. ("Snowy”) BAKER,
358 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
My
Three C’s
Hand - Made
Cigarettes
give entire satisfac-
tion to all who
appreciate cigar-
ettes of quality.
If you are a cigar-
ette smoker, I sug-
gest you give these
cigarettes a trial.
No. 1, Russian.
A Cigarette that you
will thoroughly en-
joy, -jib. Box, If-.,
as illustrated.
No. 2, Virginia.
Plain, gold or cork-
tipped, as illustrated,
jib. Box, 4s.
No. 3, Egyptian.
Smokes mild and
sweet, jib. Box,
4s. 6d., as illus-
trated.
No. 4, Turkish.
Oval or round, Jib.
Box, 4s. (id. Oval
as illustrated.
POSTAGE EXTRA.
41b., fid. Interstate, Bd.
Send for a free copy
of my Catalog of Cigar-
ettes, Cigars, etc.
A. M. SOLOMON,
Cigar Expert,
173 Pitt St., Sydney
Actual Sizes.
No. 1.
I?
'
,
No. 4.
Automobile Club of
Australia’s
Half=Gallon Petrol
Consumption Test
held on Saturday, 25 7/’l4.
First FOUR Places
.. . Secured on ...
Shell Benzine
OXO-
-
HEND]
[GCQ
7-h.p. Twin, Free-engine,
3-inch Tyres, £6B.
Hen dee Manufacturing Co.
109 Russell Street, Melbourne, VIC.
Send for Catalog D.
HOTELKEEPERS ! HOTELKEEPERS !
ECKERSLEY'S DISPENSER
For the Rapid Production of Pure,
Crystal. effervescent, Draught, Leinon-
ade, Soda water and every variety of
Aerated Drink.
NO LABOR! NO BOTTLE-WASHING!
NO BOTTLE KILLING. NO LABELLING OB’
BOTTLES! NO BROKEN BOTTLES!
WORKS AUTOMATICALLY.
By Electric or Water Power.
Bar attendant simply pulls a lever and mechanical
powei instantly supplies the required drink.
Write for descriptive Catalog to
ECKERSLEY’S,
25a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
or S. MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS; Messrs. ELLIOTT DONALDSON &
DOUGLAS, 529-33 Queen Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
"MN&T3 ' c'
rffii? H itf
Wool ]
Hides
Tallow
Sheep Skins:
Rabbit Skins
and Other
Produce.
S Al L/ E S held at frequent
intervals by
Australian Mercantile Land
and Finance Co. Ltd.
4 BLIGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Correspondence Invited.
RIGNEY SHOES
help to make your appearance what it should
be.
Particular dressers in all parts of Australia
wear RIGNEY SHOES, because of their
correct style, line finish, comfort and refine-
ment.
The illustration shows a Choice Russian Calf
Bal., Close Welts, Light Sole, guaranteed
hand-sewn. One of the famous Rostock’s
(English-made) Shoes—very exclusive shape,
a shoe for gentlemen.
Price - - 35 -
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a Copy of our Catalog. |
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
2/6 Jars, obtainable everywhere
Nurses Recommend
Solomon
Solution
Experience has taught them its wonderful
efficacy in the treatment of Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Sprains
Swellings, Wounds, Cuts, Boils, Burns, and
many other common ailments. Will YOU try it?
Post Free 3/- from
SOLOMON COX & SON
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
“Blue Wig”: The attention of Attorney-
General Hall (N.S.W.) is requested to
attach itself to one of the State Courts,
where the tedious handling of cases has
become a joke amongst legal practitioners,
the despair of jurymen and the cause of
exasperation and loss to parties concerned
in disputes. When a case which any other
judge would dispose of in half a day comes
on and this particular Court wrestles ex-
haustively with the matter for two, three
and even four days, the direct loss in time
and cash to the persons interested becomes
serious. That (ash keeps no one employed,
except the Bench, one or two drowsy tip-
staffs and several wigs. The Law’s delays
are proverbial and have to be endured ; but
when a Court moves like the Snails of
God it calls for some lubricant. An indefi-
nite rest on the part of the presiding deity
is cordially recommended as a start.
How quickly war brutalises! Nowa-
morning the peaceful citizen who never shed
even nose-blood in his life rises early, hurries
out to the front verandah, and grabs his
morning paper, hungry for news that thou-
sands have been slain. Having sated his
blood-lust he proceeds to bathe, dress and
breakfast, after which he proceeds to toil,
~r "business.” as the genteel middle-class
loves to describe it. After lunch he hurries
out for his evening paper and scans the
summary. If there is no word of fresh
thousands having been slaughtered he ex-
presses disappointment and demands angrily
what Kitchener is doing that ten million
British, Indians, Zulus, Afghans and Japan-
ese have not been landed at Ostend and let
loose on the rear of the German force. He
is hungry for holocausts. He wants blood
—German blood, and unlimited quantities
of it. Yet the sip-lit of a Chinaman being
run over by a tramcar would cause him to
nearly faint.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” :
Apropos big dinners (B. 13/8/’l4). A dinner
historic was eaten at Wellington, Maoriland, on
March 1, 1849. Nearly 200 guests sat down
in the theatre. The toasts included “Tier
Gracious,” “Prince Albert and the vest of the Royal
Family,” “Army and Navy,” “His Excellency Sir
George Grey, Governor,” “The Lieutenant-Governor”
(E. J. Eyre, who gained subsequent notoriety in
Jamaica), and “Representative Institutions and their
immediate introduction.” Dr. Featherston, addressing
the banqueters upon the subject, instanced N. S.
Wales and its prosperity since it achieved a sort of
Legislature, which he inaccurately called Repre-
sentative Government. Mr. Vincent attacked the
Government, arid proposed the toast: “The Gentlemen
who declined seats in the Nominee Council.” These
were VV. Fox, A. McDonald, Dr. Featherston, Captain
Daniels, J. Johnston, K. Bethune, and F. A. Weld.
Fox and Weld subsequently held the Premiership of
M.L., and the latter was at one time or other
Governor of Westralia, Tasmania and. the Straits
Settlements.
TRY
IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
Price 1/- per Bottle. Of all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS &. CO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.


HEALTH
after illness
When disease and weakness
have ravished the system,
Nature needs something
more than tonics and stim-
ulants if health is to be
restored. At such a time
TRADE MARK.
SCOTT’S Emul-
sion is inval-
uable. It builds
up the wasted
tissues, enriches
the blood, revi-
talizes wasted
nerve cells and
quickly restores
the vigour,
plumpness and
strength of glo-
rious health.
But, only genuine
scons
Emulsion
can be relied upon for cer-
tain results. Therefore, be
sure to see the “ fishman ” on
the package the sign of
SCOTT purity and strength.
Hotel Stewart
SAN FRANCISCO
A high-class hotel very favorably known to
travellers from Australia, New Zealand and
the Orient. Headquarters for Britishers in
San Francisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. Third annex just completed. 350
rooms. 250 connecting bathrooms. Every
comfort and convenience. Beautifully fur-
nished. Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping, theatre
and cafe districts. On street car lines to all
parts of city. Our omnibuses with uni-
formed attendants meet all steamers a'.ul
trains. Travellers are urged to make reser-
vations by letter or wireless to be assured
ihe most satisfactory accommodation. Cable
address, “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals, 16s. a day and up.
Rooms without Meals, Bs. a day and up.
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
Proprietors.
LACTOBACILUNE
Tablets and Powder.
Prepared under the authority and scientific control
of
PROFESSOR METCHNIKOFF.
Lactobacilline combats and arrests the development
of pathogenic and putrefactive germs in the intestinal
canal. By this action Lactobacilline not alone exerts
a powerful influence in the restoration to and main-
tenance of perfect general health, but is specially
indicated in
AFFECTIONS OF THE DIGESTIVE TRACT.
Gastro-enteritis, muco-membranous entero-colitis,
constipation, intestinal tuberculosis, typhoid fever,
influenza, appendicitis and intestinal catarrh.
IN CASES OF AUTOINTOXICATIONS—cirrhosis
of the liver, chronic nephritis, arterio-sclerosis,
chlorosis, anaemia, dyspepsia, etc.
IN ALL CASES DUE TO ABNORMAL INTESTINAL
FERMENTATION; IN ALL CASES DEPENDENT ON
DISTURBANCES OF SECRETION of bile and pan-
creatic juice (gallstone, pancreatic diabetes).
In diabetes Lactobacilline, by virtue of the fer-
mentation which it sets up in the alimentary sugars,
diminishes the glycosuria.
The tablets are put up in glass cylinders, and are
packed in boxes, each containing eight cylinders:
price' 5/6 per box. The powder in boxes containing
10 cylinders; price 1/- per cylinder. The tablets
and powder are the only preparations recommended
and used by Professor Metehnikoff. Each cylinder
and box bears the words “Le Ferment Seul Four-
nisseur du Professor Metehnikoff.” without which
none are genuine.
Lactobacilline can be ordered through any chemist.
Full particulars can be obtained from the Societe le
Ferment, Australasia Chambers. 406-14 Queen Street,
Brisbane; or Branches; Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt
Street, Sydney ; Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen Street,
Melbourne; Ellershaw's Buildings, Cliff Street, Fre-
mantle ; Smeeton’s Buildings, Queen Street, Auck-
land.*
THE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month,
l’rice 6tU
jb Established 1847. M a
AUcocks
Plasters
Eagle Mark.
The World's Greatest
External Remedy.
Pains in the Back
Allcock's Plasters have no equal.
Strengthen Weak Backs
as nothing else can.
Pains in the Side
Allcock's Plasters relieve promptly
and at the same time
strengthen side and restore energy.
Allcock's is the original and genuine porous plaster.
It is a standard remedy, sold by chemists in every part
of the civilized world. Apply wherever there is Pain.
When you need a Pill
TAKE A Brandreth's Pill
For Constipation, Biliousness, Headache, Dizziness, Indigestion, Eto,
SOLD BY CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CO., Birkenhead, England.
Purely Vegetable.
(Est. 1752.)
■■
Patentedself adjusting feature •
offoot Eazer topplate ison underspring
No More
Aching Feet!
All Foot
Troubles Ended!
For tired or aching feet, or for anyone constantly walking or
standing. Dr. SCHOLL’S FOOT-EAZER has no equal.
This appliance is worn in the boot or shoe, entirely free from notice, and may
easily be transferred from one pair to another. It is light and comfortable to
wear, positively easing the feet, body and nerves. It is also self-adjusting,
and gives just the right support at just the right spot. .
In all sizes Jor men and women.
Stocked by all leading Boot Dealers
If you have any difficulty in procuring these goods, write direct to the Agents.
Treatment and Care of the Feet" Booklet sent Free.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
SO Clarence Street, Sydney
Sole Agents in N.S.W. »
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.,
110 Edward Street, Brisbane,
Sole Agents in Queensland
MICHAELIS, HALLENSTEIN & CO. Pty. Ltd.,
382-4 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
Sole Agents in Victoria
B. ROSENSTAMM,
61-65 King Street, Perth
Sole Agent* in W.A
V. & G. GENDERS,
Cameron St., Launceston,
57 Liverpool St„ Hobart.
Sole Agent* in Tasmania
MICHAELIS, HALLENSTEIN & FARQUHAR, Dowling Street. Dunedin. N.Z.
Sole Agents in New Zealand
Last month, on leaving Brisbane, going
north, the Chinese crew of the ship Alden-
ham was mustered as usual by the Customs
office! ; and, although the
answered the roll call, he
of them had aged strangely sjj
arrival Notwithstanding
üble protests that the ehar
Enoggera water and the deti
euce of pieture shows, the
smelt
old-time
who, roils of
land, hiurSltxehar
Pagans hareig
in China,
ceedmgs
two Hop
Commonv
The'
qnnint
aD ene,
plan
put hi
had s
other e
throngs,
present,
said they
they objec
British p.
stupids ca
been com
try's Def
taxes , a#l
that wa
when
»hed_
pare to do a
that) they d:
principle of
how, the wor
tempt the k
himself, but
other kid to
“Don Q.”:
happy famil
p>**|v certain
Mister Appel is the square peg in a round
bt?ypr the round hole in a square lace, or
Denhaml having pushed his Liquor Bill a
second time through the Assembly, now finds
himself confronted by the Bung party in tn<
Cou^^“' is not otilv potent in tn>-
by virtue of direct repre
in the fact that two lead
barrack for Beer (Bung
each then
opinions
tamber ___
the
i the Highland
Irily remarkeo
ffis travels seen
\n rough tlieir
|im, to s|»eak
lb to barbar-
|ie Highland
shall pro-
ou» Soot
to the
r.a-lnr-o
', while
to th»
consist
was given
thatMwaitcd on
equ*t that he
ibdiv®ed estate
vernment
g t<%De. ham.
1 ad time
upwind sold
Cadva ii
d thai
ropie
to believi
laying (5 pe.
[Government
ham didn’t
|the request,
hour “land
rt the feel-
supporter*.
champion
lady tennis piaver. and daughter of Donald
Mackintosh. M.L.A.. was married in Pitt*-
DUPLEX
BRACES
For Men of fiction
They Ye Great
fit all Stores, 2'
ON THE HOP!
A. superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of "Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Rag” : A smart Yankee lager-beer agent,
taking advantage of Germany’s present un-
popularity, sent half a dozen decorated
drays through Sydney the other day, loaded
with the branch he’s paid to push. On each
turnout there was a banner, with the follow-
ing device: —
This Lager WASN’T made in Germany.
America sends Australia of her best.
As the procession swung into George-street
it almost collided with a German band. The
conductor jerked out a command, and in
half a jiffy the musicians had the horses
shying at the tune of “Yankee Doodle.”
* * * *
The Taranaki (M.L.) Oil Wells recently
received a request from Bull’s Admiralty
for a few casks of Taranaki fuel oil to be
sent to Fogland, so that its alleged suit-
ability for naval purposes could be tested.
The M.L. co. has also been asked if it is
prepared to tender for the navy’s require-
ments, and it hasn’t wasted any time in
saying “Yes.” So those at the head of the
oil industry in Loan Land are filled with
hope these days, and already see Frequent
Dividend, Esq., coming over the horizon.
He’s been a long, long time on the way.
“Habitual Inebriate”: “Hamer” wrote
(B. 6/8/T4) that a Sydney firm of wine-
merchants was annoyed recently because a
London cable stated that “of a number of
samples of wines tasted by the London Wine
Trade Club, that of a (rival) Sydney firm
was adjudged head and shoulders above the
others.” Hamer proceeded :
The firm, which fizzed over with indignation,
declared that it had no samples' in the competition ;
if it had, there would have been one other brand
two storeys at least over everything else. As the
wine which actually did the trick was the brand of
another Commonwealth firm, Australia has nothing
to complain about in the verdict.
The point of real interest in the above con-
nection is that no wine did the trick. As a
matter of fact there was no “competition.”
no “decision,” no anything. The whole yarn
was an ingenious trade fake. Members of
the Wine Trade Club hold periodical tast-
ings. Sometimes a dozen turn up at these
ceremonies, sometimes half a dozen, or less.
No official decision is given as to the merits
of any particular intoxicant, though mem-
bers are permitted, of course, to mention
those which they fancy most. The free
advt. which a big Sydney firm secured out
of the cable to which “Hamer” refers, at
the expense of the rest of the trade, has
maddened the Wine Trade Club. Hear the
club’s secretary on the subject—the follow-
ing being an extract from the letter which
he sent to Sydney Sun, the journal which
published the original yarn:—-
Members of the Club may have expressed their
opinion that the wines of Messrs, (say) Hikkup’s
shipping were better than the few others on view at
the same time, and so they ought to have been, since
they were old wines and the others were much
younger, and since they were wines shipped at a
much higher price than any of the others. But it is
entirely against the rules, as well as the spirit, of the
Wine Trade Club to take advantage of such a situa-
tion to advertise, as Messrs. Hikkup's have done in
the Australian press, that their wine had been awarded
the first place on the market. There never was any
question of an award, and there was never any
attempt on the part of the Wine Trade Club to get a
representative selection of all the Australian wines
on the market to decide as to their respective merits.
This is why the committee of the AVine Trade Club
takes a very strong exception to the advertisement
which has appeared in the Australian press, and to
the use which Messrs. Hikkup have made of it.
At latest advices members were being fired
out of the Wine Trade Club in shoals, on
the mere suspicion of being connected with
this affair; and when the last mails left
London the idea, east of Temple Bar. was
that the situation had all the makings of
another Dreyfus case. Also there was a
rumor that the president of the AVine Trade
Club had cut his throat in the lavatory over
the scandal, and the head waiter was said
to have drunk a quart of lysol in mistake
for : 67 port. Still all these things were
before the war. and matters have doubtless
simmered down in Great Tower-street, Lon-
don. E.C., by now.
A man may overcome his most furious
enemies, but the man who is surrounded by
furious friends is doomed. The Kaiser pro-
bably fled to the battlefields of Belgium tc
escape the wolf-howls of the plodding ship-
ping people who, under the leadership of
Ballin. had been peaceably building up a
formidable merchant marine. After the
British Navy had spring-cleaned the
seas there was a hole in the fleets big
enough to make a lunatic of the most beau-
tifully-balanced German shipping director.
When the details of the first crop of war
suicides are known it will probably be found
that a few eminent steamer-owners pulled
the trigger. The commercial edifice they
had built was crumbling below and above
them, and the revolver was their only escape.
But there will still he enough ruined mag-
nates of various sorts left in Berlin to stvell
the chorus and keep the Kaiser awake.
(Continued on page 36.)
BACK IN THE TOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Back in the town!
The roaring traffic rolls;
The pale folk, crowding down the narrow way,
Turn lean-jowled faces, mirrors of mean souls,
Where crude electrics mock the dying day,
Strangled beneath the smoke-fog feelers brown.
Back in the town!
Back in the town !
Beyond this glare and din.
The Great Bush wakes and winks her starry eyes,
As Lady Spring brings laughing blossoms in,
And all the hills ring with bird minstrelsies—
But here, grim Dawn strides in with pallid frown.
Back in the town !
Back in the town!
r thread the garish maze.
Stifled beneath the city's sooty pall,
And watch with envy, through the amber blaze,
Of sunset, caught between the buildings tall.
One free bird from a steeple flutter down.
Back in the town 1
Back in the town!
Within this dreary room,
I sit and watch beside the dying hours.
And hear, wind-blown across the night, the boom
Of deep bells tolling from the gold-eyed towers.
Through undertones of dense rain roaring down.
Back in the town !
N..S.W.
JACK. SOMMERS.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
■kk *'" x
X -Vof: '
Sr*./- . I rsr~ - 3 "
s«y
i
k
fvx
S>?
m
xs s.
r
--/ \ \ . ../
r ■ k
Wsmd ’/
wry
rPf J
M ml
I}AJ
M
4X~t
//
■Safe!*
///
•••■:
r/K
<V
t ■ r
k,
V7 7 //
r&*sJ it tfgtit
**&%s& <M?k
* a * B ssK--.«i— i-*'
m -;
lift ip!
* . A
\ M 4
L
H
ar
1
<\>;, k ,
W’'-
K/.V.
/ &xps t
/ «uw
iX
rr
/ liiir
'-A
yx
J&
t&P
J IX
mm
n
\
i
ga
In
SsIA. tSS
k|
w,
V
m
44
13 fH j 'I III)
Ml
J
X
X
rsmp/
i-Sfij&e,
rvi
I-Ml I
>
ns r
Strfj
\
\
X
r~^
v-
sSS
*&:•
' ■
■ <3 rt Pi
■
X
5531??
'Si
*x
w*m
X-X
05
A> ? -x
3 XS!,
jpmmwm
jU-
'»*
wm
<fYr-
•X J
z' *«««■.
ksi
6B^X.
KS
—».*
—k
kX
m
k 5
S /
YA
m
X \\
h
■rf '^Zb-fY
%Jri
-M
i
_>r
J
' - —v-
V
sj
"V
jT
»s&>£
5g
/- x
*S r /C
u_
~p'
%5
Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Forages for
Supper too.
All the pigs
And poultry fly
When the “COBRA"
Staff ride by.
But for ev’ry-
Thing they kill
Chunder promptly
Pays a bill ;
So along
The battle lines
“COBRA’S” name
Like armor shines,


MAKE EVERY SALE COUNT
BETA RECEIPT
n
'tfyTmah
W&
Get dll the Profit from Your Business.
No shopkeeper can fail to overlook the profit on even
a single sale.
The National Cash Register will enable yon to get
all your profit;by stopping losses front mistakes and
y 'carelessness.
t compels the assistant to make correct unchange-
able records of each transaction.
It prevents the failure to charge goods sold on credit.
Jt enforces accurate records of money received on
account and money paid out.
It keeps you in touch with the details of your business,
and enables you to manage it to better advantage.
It will increase your profits.
The National Cash Register Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE 119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches in all the Principal Cities.
l
S 3
Speed has its many fascinations and can be fully indulged in on a
Triumph.
There is no difficulty in obtaining a range of speeds from 5 to 50 miles
per hour instantly controlled without removing the hands from the
grips. Then the immense reserve of power makes this machine an
ideal sidecar mount, economical, simple and always reliable.
Triumph?
Victoria: MILI.EDGE BROS., 264, Post Office Place, Melbourne. New South
I Vales: BENNETT & BARKELI. LTD., 130-132, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
South Aus ralia; J HILL . SONS, Representatives,63, Gren ell St.,Ade'aide
EYES CROWLE, Local Distributors, 125, Pirie Street, Adelaide. West
Australia : The ARMSTRONG CYCLE& MOTOR AGENCY,Hay St.,Perth
Queensland: The HOWARD MOTOR & CYCLE CO., LTD., 376-8, Queen
Street, Brisbane. Tasmania: J. BILYARD, The Havelock Cycle and
Motor Works, ML Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
12
You Will Be Astonished
How It Removes Wrinkles.
TOILET TALKS.
SIMPLICITY is the order of the day as
regards beauty culture. Many women
regularly visit the specialist to have their
wrinkles ironed out with the help of hot
applications, cold creams and massage.
Most of us realise that there comes a time
when no amount of persuasion of this sort
will avail. This process of “wrinkle remov-
ing" is wrong in principle. Both
the hot water and the massag-
ing tend to expand and loosen
the skin, besides softening the
muscular foundation. The very
opposite result should he aimed
at. The tissue should be strength-
ened and the skin tightened to
smooth out the wrinkles. For
this purpose ordinary parsidium
jelly, obtainable at all chemists,
may be used with beneficial
effects. Get: about one shilling’s-?
worth'and apply like cold cream.
The face will quickly look years
younger.
IT is astonishing the number of women
. whose faces show a more or less pro-
nounced growth of superfluous hair, and it
is much to be regretted that through ignor-
ance. or wrong treatment, the majority of
them have made matters considerably worse
by causing the hairs to grow more quickly
and stronger than before. It only requires
a little thought to realise the folly of it all.
Removing the surface growth for a few days
may give temporary relief, but in order to
obtain permanent results the hair roots
must be killed. Caustic depilatories are
worse than useless, and on no account
■M
m
should the hairs be pulled out. Apart from
the electric needle, which is a costly and
painful process, any chemist will tell you
that the most reliable home treatment is
pure powdered pheminol. This substance
has a devitalising effect upon the hair roots,
in addition to which it removes all trace of
the objectionable hair in a few seconds. Tin-
recommended treatment gradu-
ally. but surely, dissolves out the
hair follicles, which is the only
method of permanently ridding
oneself of this embarrassing
disfigurement.
OW often do you see one
I 1 of the old-fashioned pow-
der pots on your friend’s dress-
ing table? Not very frequently.
I am sure. They are fast being
converted to a more useful pur-
pose. The truth of the matter
is, women are at last beginning
to realise that powder is the
“root of all evil” as far as their
complexions are concerned, at any rate, and
are wisely discarding the powder puff
for that ordinary, innocent-looking sub-
stance known as cleminite. What they
do is to obtain about an ounce from
tbeir chemist and dissolve it in four table-
spoonfuls of water. This gives a lotion
which immediately imparts a delightful
bloomy.appearance to the skin; removes that
horrid greasy appearance, and renders pow-
dering quite unnecessary. The result lasts
all day long under the most trying condi-
tions. and what, is far more important, im-
proves the complexion instead of ruining it. [o
You might as well expect
a troop of Boy Scouts to
capture Gibraltar as to
an ordinary dentrifice to
successfully combat the
ravages of “ Acid Mouth ”
upon the teeth.
There’ s as much difference
between any ordinary den-
trifice and Pebeco Tooth
Paste as there is between
a flmtlook musket of 1778
and a present-day machine-
gun.
peseco
TOOTH PASTE
Ordinary Dentifrices clean,
whiten and polish teeth. Here
their work stops—for this is
all they were ever intended
to do. Pebeco Tooth Paste
was made to do what no other
known dentnfrice has ever
done overcome “ Acid
Mouth ” —that arch-enemy of
the teeth because it is the
direct cause of 95 per cent, of
all tooth decay.
Send 3d stamps for sample tube and
interesting test of “ Acid Mouth.”
Of all Chemists.
G. ARNOLD, 6 O’Connell Street,
Sydney (wholesale only).
STOP
•a
Look Out
for
Imitations f
Invent a good thing—
and scores will copy it.
That's their way of show-
ing appreciation.
“ Three - in - One ”
Oil is the best lubricant
in the World—so has imitators.
1 here are many ways of testing
the superiority of
“ 3-in-one ” Oil
Ctftaw
p|(<{
LisfifUtATl*
over those trading on its name and
reputation. The former is water- !
white—it, is a highly refined Oil;
the latter remind one of kerosene !
“ 3-in-One ” is actually frag-
rant; the others possess disagree-
able odours. The constituents
are known only to the manufac-
turers. Successful imitation of
3-in-One" is impossible !
Sold every u here.
Write for Free Sample Bottle.
REID AND REID,
Australaiian Agents,
8211, Harris St., Wellington, N.Z.
We invite you to buy a box of “ De
Reszke ” Cigarettes and compare them
with any brand you please. Their quality
will appeal to you.
O Deßeszke rs
I
IMPROVED
Compass
Ciynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer and Squatter.
Stronjf, Compact. Rest lacq
2Ain. dia., Solid Leather
Printed Instructions.
tier brass.
Case.
POS I El)
22 6
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.
189»191 George Street, Brisbane.
E. BURNHAM’S
Celebrated KALOS
Toilet Preparations
Kalos Skin Rejuvenator (Skin Food)
prevents writ.kies.
Kalos Fairy Fluff Face Powder, deli-
cate and adhtsive.
Kalos Chin Mask reduces double chin and supports
sagging muscles.
Kalos Perfumes and Toilet Waters, “Blue Violets”,
“Lily of the Valley”, “Lilac”, etc.
Write for Free Booklet, “Beauty’s Charm”
Attractive offer to representative
dealers throughout the world.
E. BURNHAM
Established 1871
<; 138-140 N. State St. Chicago, U. S. A.
"llonio Sapiens”: 'l'ln* Stock Exchange
Co. of Melbourne is the owner of the gor-
geous Stock Exchange Building erected in
1.887, when the boom was just curling over.
The gargoyles and griffins, and the stained-
glass windows, in addition to the other exes,
of putting up the farcical mausoleum ol
Stock Exchange hi/... c05t.£271.870. the land
being included. Already £08.(514 has been
written off the book value of the assets.
Then £13,1110 received on forfeited shares
was written off. and now the shareholders
have agreed to reduce the capital by
£71,052 if the Supreme Court be agreeable.
Property account will then stand at
£118,481. which is a good price for a struc-
ture which is far from being the best and
most convenient Stock Exchange in the world.
Rut there isn’t much to be done on Mel-
bourne Stock Exchange now. It used to
live on Bendigo business, but the roar
of the people who wanted I<> buy Carden
Gully shares is hushed, and Shenandoahs
are as dead as the pants yon bought 10
years ago. and the new generation has for-
gotten Koch's Pioneer, and the Hustler line
has gone to 'the dogs. And when you ask
the present-day broker about Old (’bum. or
Odd Chum, or New Chum Consolidated, or
Johnson and Websters, or Johnson's Beef,
or Confidence, or Belmont and Sax by. or
Ellenborough. or Lady Barkly or Hercules
and Energetic he asks you if you are the
Seven Sleepers of Ephesus.
# * * *
“Rubble”: Wellington (M.L.) eats con-
crete. There are concrete walls, concrete
wind-breaks (you want to hold off the win 1
in Wellington), concrete road and tramway
tunnels, concrete water-channels, concrete
pavements. Nice, clean, uniform pavements
they are. too. But only a fraction of the
Concrete used is visible. The bulk of it is
underground and hidden in the buildings.
A large portion of Wellington stands on re-
claimed ground. Lamb ton Quay, now away
back from the harbor, is the old sea-front,
and many of the big buildings which fringe
it are on piles embedded in concrete. When
an earthquake - happens along they sway on
these stilts, and as the shock passes they
nod themselves to sleep again. The days
when Wellington built only on wood, on
account of ’quakes, have passed: the experts
say now that concrete can stand the rocking-
better than wood. But you can’t simnly
dump a heavy concrete building on top.
You must go down to the rock on which the
old ocean had its bed; and in doing iliat you
have to pump vigorously to get rid of tin*
ocean, which filters in rapidly through the
mullock. Stop the pumps, and you’ll prob-
ably drown your overdraft. If you use brick
for a two-storey building you must run a
concrete course, reinforced with cross-bars of
steel, round the top of the first course >f
bricks: and many and stringent are the regu-
lations concerning reinforcing and strength
of concrete. Some of the largest buildings
are so well tied together that, if ever the
last thing in ’quakes comes, and the country
slides bodilv out to sea. the premises wili
hang together, and go down amidst the salt
sea waves sideways, upside down, right side 1
up, or anyway, but intact and coherent.
From the noint of view of the cement manu-
facturer. Wellington is a boon and a blessing
to men.
“Alamon”: I copy verbatim the lettering
mi a jar of Japanese toothpowder, and enter
if for the Plain English stakes: “The dua-
lity of this thorse dentifrice is so oood
thatthere has never been anather which can
be com pa red to it. I trast that you will
give it a trial and that as the result you
will const antlyuseit.”
“F.C.” writes:
1 have just vead some remarks of Statistician
Kuibbs on the “cost of living” and the co-relative
habit of living within one’s income. Certainly,
Knibbs had but 392 “household cards” on which to
base his conclusions and work out his averages ; but
the items that go to make the averages are, no doubt,
correct -and some of them are surprising. Thus he
found that on an average income of £3 10s. per
week and over, the average expenditure was £3 9s. (id.
and under, but when the incomes got down to £2 15s
and £2 10s. the expenditure mounted in highly
inverse ratio. One individual was such a consum-
mate genius that he had practically solved the whole
financial problem of life —on a weekly income, for
last November of £2 2s. Id. his weekly expenditure
(for self, wife and family) was £4 4s. 4d. ! How
he did if Knibbs doesn’t know: possibly Premier
Holman might. Another “flagrant ease,” as Knibbs
calls him, was a man, with a wife and three small
children, who spent £4 16s. Bd. out of an average
weekly income of £2 14s. ! These five were appar-
ently hearty eaters, as they consumed 475. 4d. worth
of food per week, including 7s. 4d. for bread and
6s. 2d. for butter. Evidently these household ex-
penses cards arc unreliable individually, and of no
use for averaging purposes. But it would soothe
the public anxiety, softo speak, if lie would commune
with the gentleman whose income was £2 2s. id.
yet who spent £4 Is. 4d. weekly, and get him to
give detailed information as to how he did it. He
would make an ideal State Treasurer.
SPECIAL EDITIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some new and deadly sickness plagues my mind,
For, every sunny morning when I rise,
1 make this resolution, copper-lined.
“1 will not read their lies!”
Then bravely to the papered town 1 take it
And weakly break it !
“I will not read their lie--!” If I have said
It once I’ve said it half a hundred times;
But there is something broken in my head,
And so I buy their crimes.
Let some fiend vise and shriek- -straightway I wither,
And buy his blither.
"No news can be expected.” So they say ;
But "still I notice they have filled the sheet.
With heart of lead and face all set and grey.
I walk on saddened feet
Two blocks, and. when 1 sight (he first fiend's brother,
I’ll him another !
“I will NOT read their lies I May I he shot to—
Rags if I!” (“SPKSHFI, EXTRA!!”) (“II— 11
I’ve f/ot to!”
N'.S.W.
HAD AGAIN.


USE
ss
m
? .
iw%
“MAZDA DRAWN-WIRE FILAMENT LAMPS
FOR THAT BRILLIANT ECONOMICAL LIGHTING,
The drawn=wire filament makes them durable, and the cost of operation
is only one=third as much as that of the old style of carbon lamp.
*5
= CALL AND SEE THEM IN OUR SHOWROOM.
M
0
0
Queen ©JLlttle Collins Sts
Melbourne
Cor
S
due
31T Clarence
Street
PERTH (W.A.) : Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Aust., Ltd. (E.S.C.A.),
Edward Street.
—Agents-
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Dunedin, Auckland, Wellington & Christchurch.
MaKe some inquiries concerning' the Cheapest and
Best OIL ENGINE ever offered for iSale in Australia?
(«
THE
G
99
IS
f
m
Has forced itself on the market against tremendous odds by sheer
merit only, and has proved that a cheap and good Oil Engine can more
than “hold its own” against the more expensive types. “The Big
Chief” is hopper cooled, and all self-contained —no troubles with leaky
tanks —fitted with extended crank shaft and regular pulley, whilst a
Wizard magneto supplies the necessary spark. Every Engine thor-
oughly tested before despatch. Discount for cash. Very liberal terms.
R. L. SCRUTTON <a CO. LTD.
161 Clarence Sydney,
[*
** Where tKe Best Engines are Sold.**


Shipping.
P.
and
O
BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADEEMDE.
♦Twin Screw. All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
rASSF.NOF.It ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON .. .. £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail. Iron! £49 19s. to £53 lls.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Pi, ace, Sydney.
Hanking, Public Companies, &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HADE.
Security and Satisfactory
Interest
are the leading features of this Institution.
Deposits received from 1/- upwards.
Interest paid at 3i% on first £2OO, and 3%
on excess to £5OO.
The Bank has 130 Branches and over 500
Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices.
DEPOSITS Guaranteed by the Government.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £385,000
Directors: lion. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
lion. ROBERT PIIILP, M.L.A.; Hon. A. J.
TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
Gr.NF.nAi, Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Heart Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL HANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. ..£2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (30th June, 1914).. .. £1,195,591
RESERVE FUND £45,000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.'
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, lit., Chair-
man; George J. Si.y, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Siiei.don,
Esq.; Arthur S. Barton, Esq. ; Frank N.
Y'arwood, Esq.; Herbert R. Lysagiit, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO.OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . 166,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Dirf.ctors—Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray,
M.L.C.
General Manager—W. V, RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE . - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East
fhe Colonial (jjutual (jife
assurance society LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, -Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual' Liability; also
' Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
>7** Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts 'paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C.. M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Seeretan
Suidditis
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.U
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
fIOANA leaves Wellington Sept. 17.
Connecting Steamer Leaves Sydney, Sept. 11.
fIARAMA leaves Sydney Oct. 10.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 2 days at Wellington and 24 hours
at Papeete —“ The Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
“|"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; ' also to BYRON BAY, COPE’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND' RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth & London.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
Steamers Fitted with Wireless.
Saloon ■ FARES—
London, from £45. „ n 7 /'
Capetown and Durban, from £3O. £l3/13 to £l7/17,-
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line,
£llO (First-class both ways) ; £B2 (Second-class
Orient).
Saloon Return and stop-over tickets iirtercbanire-
able with Holt’s Blue Funnel Line. Third-class
Return and stop-over tickets interchangeable with
P. & O. Service.
ROUND-THE-WORLD TICKETS from £122/10/-.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, etc., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY )
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
"CAIRNS
("Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).,
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Sept. 12.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Sept. 16.
Leaves Sydney Sept. 19.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Sept. 23.
Leaves Sydney Sept. 26.
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports).
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Sept. 12.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Sept. 19.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To PAPUA and PACIFIC ISLES.
To Papua via Brisbane and Cairns.,
To Solomon Islands via Brisbane.
To the New Hebrides via Lord Howe and
Norfolk Islands.
SEND FOR PARTICULARS OF FARES AND SAILINGS TO
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability -
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
£3,500,000
£2,450,030
£3,500,000
DIRECTORS:
£9,450 009
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C
President.
Tliomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
The Hon. James T. Walker
The lion. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Alfred George Milson, Esq.; William Harrington Rainier, Esq.
Head Office-George St.. Sydney. London Office-29 Thread needle St., E.C.
340 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD. . J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager
The Commercial Banking Co.
ot Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,730,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. . . 2,000,000 0 0
£5,730,000 0. 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen , Esq... .. Chairman,
lion. H. E. Rater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Mosf.s, M.L.C. A. J. Oxsi.ow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Siieli.ey, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., and W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. 11. Massif.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton ; N. D, Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEOROE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £1,000,000
Preference Shares . . ■ • . . 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up .. . . . . .. . . 500,000
Uncalled Capital . • • • • ■ 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£544,654 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 156,136 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 78,500 0 0
£779,291 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
26 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
ITice 6d.
UNDER NEUTRAL FLAG
TO
AMERICA and ENGLAND.
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers, 17 knots
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY-
SONOMA .
VENTURA
Sept. 26 ) Nov. 21 | Jan. 16 I Mar. 13
Oct. 24 j Dec. 19 j Feb. 13 j April 10
Ihe. San Francisco Panama Exposition is open
February-December, 1915. Tickets issued to London
via San Francisco and back by any Suez Line.
Tel. 2282 Pity. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000,
Fire Insurances
Marine Ris'is ..
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on W 001, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
_■ ■ of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
THOMAS M. TINIjtCY, Manager.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
VVk Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, YV.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.YY
Branches in all parts of the world.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian f
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WAN DILL A (Bpoo
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
Sept. 20 and Oct. 24.
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steerage Passengers.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
MARLOO, Sept. 12.
WOLLOWIIA, Sept. 19.
ALLINGA, Sept. 26.
Saloon Passage Tickets are 'interchangeable af,ter
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Compaifies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO.. LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
SAILINGS :
*Triple-Screw Steamer, fitted with Cabins de luxe en
suite, Bedstead Booms, Nursery, Laundry, Electric
Lift.
First Saloon passengers to Honolulu and points
beyond wishing to break journey at New Zealand
may proceed by Intercolonial steamer from Sydney
without extra charge.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SNIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
" Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria,”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
a
I
HORLICK'S
MALTED MILK
There is no need to ques-
tion the purity of your milk
supply if you use Horlick’s.
In addition, it has the advan-
tage of being more nourish-
ing than ordinary cows’
milk. It proves an
Food-Drink to infants, in-
valids, and in fact all who
need building up.
Sample sent on receipt of 2d.
Sample
will
be sent on
rcc l,)t
of 2d. In
stamps.
mss
*'*AT3 I**'*
*gp-i!fi'J»
Hutchinson
& co-
se, Jamieson
Street,
Sydney,
H.S.W.


Hotels. &v..
EORGE HOTEL,
•St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 16'- per day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING lIALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE
■
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
\ and guaranteed free
\ from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
/ Price 3/6, posted 3/11
/ Directions with every
/ bottle
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
Ho
0
ASTHMA
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
Beaconsfield testified to the benefits
he received rom Hirnrod’s
Asthma Powder, and every
post brings sim.lar letters
to-day.
AsnmA
« saj
Famed for 40 Years.
Best remedy ior Asthma,
Hay Fever, Rose Co.d, or
ord nary Cough,
Soid in 1 ins by all Chttnuu and Starts
throughout Ausiraias.a,
rilliE Lest Stories written by Australian
-L Writers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price. 6d. monthly.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
Australia
l
SYDNEY
Open
for all
General Banking* Business
in the
principal
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
Cab UUe"rWcTdiMl e n^'^" d draft ? dr ; l , WIl un joragn piaces direct. Foreign b lie negotiated and collected.
Exclrm™ f p ; World ; Hills negotiated or forwarded for collection Banking and.
Pnv,i! ' ge Blw, ‘ eS:S o£ every description transacted within the Commonwealth, United Kingdom and abroad.
Current accounts opened, interest paid on fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities
Saving's Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at
Deposits
from
1/- t® £3OO
2000
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at
per annum
3%
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor.
Savings Bank Facilities
DENIS N MILLER, Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy anil Delightful Climate. Enchanting Scenery. Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TKOEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street. Sydney, N.SAV. A. MESTON, Local Director.
IS
LOCAL]
iff]
<£)/
Ltf--'-'
PATRIOTISM
- YOVB
Aim? c
Then have a JHOT
g% at smoking
Referee
The Australian Tobacco.
K \
1
T
X
A
SHAVE EASY, SIR!
tat
m
Why should you endure a scrape from an inferior razor—when you can
shave easy every time with
A “PLUM” RAZOR?
This splendid razor has a blade made from finest silver steel, and is so
perfectly tempered that the edge is always keen. Your morning shave
will be a daily delight if you use a “Plum.” It glides over the
face and leaves the skin clear and soft as velvet. Try it yourself—
send for one to-day.
Price 10/6, Post Free.
We keep it in perfect order for two years free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle 10/6
Pair, in Double Case, an excellent set 21 /-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, splendid quality 16/6
Pair, in Double Case, a handsome present 30/•
Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITK.EN, 6S+
GEORGE SXREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
Always
Satisfactory.
Those two words best describe
Abbey Shoes. Abbey Shoes, with
their perfect fit, fine appearance,
comfort, and long-wearing quality,
cannot be otherwise than always
satisfactory.”
The Boot illustrated is a Patent
Golosh Bal., Bull Calf Leg, Per-
forated Golosh. Price 27/6 and
30/-
Also in Tan Willow Calf, 22/6,
25/- and 27/6.
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
Write for our Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘Alt A BIS'
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Ilenna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive v-u. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia-
PU MPS—HAES & EGGERS LTD.
“INVINCIBLE” CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
FOR HIGH AND LOW LIFTS.
•* .
SSI
*
: ■ ■ '«5-T
is# 4
“Invincible” Pressure Pump for Motor drive,
lifting 800 gallons per minute, 600 feet head.
DIRECT COUPLED PRESSURE PUMP.
'w. .
aHBk* 7 swMSßr*-'
Kjlbß*** 1
STANDARD LOW LIFT PUMP.
Simple in Construction. Pump Swivels to
any angle.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCIES AND BEST DESIGNS,
Sole
Agents:
HAES & EGGERS LTD.,
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.


MflHßl
—lnvestigate the
Claims of the
UNTEAR ABLE
“YARRAMAN ”
RIDING PANTS
151-
TAILORED TO ORDER.
You know the kind of wear that Riding Trousers
have to render, to he any good. “YARRAMAN
is ail that good riding twist - should be. It is
cheaper than some and better than most.
WILL YOU SEND FOR FREE SAMPLES?
“YARRAMAN” will serve you well. _ As to the
making—well, they are tailored by Pike Brothers
Limited. -
LIMITED IRISBANE
A Hot Weather Trouble Avoided.
TRUMILK (SKIM)
POWDER.
Place Powder on top cold water and beat- with Egg Whisk for a minute. Result-
beautiful milk free from germs, suitable for all purposes.
NO MILK GOING SOUR. NO ICE NEEDED.
Ask your grocer for a small tin.
Queensland Agents: WEBSTER & CO. LTD., Mary Street, Brisbane.
New South Wales Agents: FOGGITT JONES & CO. LTD., Sussex Street, Sydney.
IN BANANA LAND
A Courier reprint of an old Land Order
form, issued by Dr. Lang 66 years ago,
recalls the little-known fact that it. was then
seriously proposed to call the Northern Stite
“Cooksland.” Receipts were given to pas-
sengers for money paid -to secure transit by
the ship Fortitude Yalley to “Cooksland.”
The Queensland Licensed Victuallers’
Association donated £lOOO to the Patriotic
Fund, and some temperance cranks howled
furiously about “tainted drink money.” It
would be interesting to know what the tem-
perance people think of their own money.
When they get an old “bob” dated, say, 1880,
they hold a coin that has probably wandered
through many pubs and breweries and
brothels and haunts of criminals, and
become tainted in so ipany ways _ that
no trace of its original purity—lf it
had any—-remains. Probably it never
had any original purity. The silver
may have been dug up by a drunkard, and
the coining done by a wife-beater and a
deceiver of maidens. What difference does
it make, after all, whether the shilling that
was spent on beer goes direct from the beer-
seller to a good purpose, or whether it passes
through the hands of a hypocrite, and a
hangman, and a forger, and an alleged saint
and a fraudulent bankrupt on the road to
the good purpose?
“Troddles”: The experiments of a Mac-
kay sugar-cocky with molasses as a fertilis-
ing agent have given remarkable* results.
Two virgin acre allotments were planted
simultaneously with the same variety of
cane. One plot was manured with 200 gals,
of molasses (value Is. per 400-gal. tank).
After a growth of 14 months the crops
were harvested, weighed and analysed. The
plot that drank the rum juice gave a per-
centage of cane sugar density* 12.4, com-
pared with p.o.c.s. density 5.9, of the Reelia-
bite plot. The tonnage of the experimental
area was 40 per acre; the other yielded 32
tons. The Sugar Cos. which still regard
molasses as a friendless nuisance and useless
by-product ought to be seized and dragged
all over both plots by the hair.
The Hose of Darling Downs.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Toowoomba’s on the Darling Downs, and the
‘soil is red and deep ;
There’s lucerne growing on the flats, and big
trees on the steep ;
There’s maize with golden tassels a-reaching
. ‘toward the sky, _ i
Mo tall and lustily it grows until it’s eight
i feet high.
They may talk of Persian roses and of roses
grown in France, . >
But where the maize stalks tower high,
and straight as any lance,
Are the best of all earth’s roses, at Too-
woomba on*, the Downs. _ s
And the finest rose of all of them, in gardens
or in gowns,
Is Dolly, of Toowoomba, on the Downs.
t-.-
From under level brows she watches men s
hearts go to wreck—
Annie Laurie isn’t in it on the subject of
her neck;
Full-breasted like the bastion-hills that ojd
Toowoomba bound, J
And a kiss-curl on her forehead that will
wind your heart around ;
Nigh as tall as any maize that grows up
through the wine-like air,
And as gracious as the lucerne, and as tender
find as fair
Is tile best of’ the world’s roses at- Too-
woomba on the Downs.
The finest' rose of all of them, in gardens or
in gowns.
Is Dolly, of Toowoomba, on the Downs.
And it’s me that knows quite perfectly the
meaning of the word —
The Darling Downs all green and red and
shining like a sword—
For darlings live throughout that land of
lucerne, rose and maize,
The tall, full-bosomed girls who' walk on
grass as green as baize.
And the queen of all their darlings, and the
lady of the rose,
Is Dolly, of Toowoomba, where the lucerne
grows ;
In one, a rose and lily, at Toowoomba on the
Downs.
The finest darling of them all, in gardens or
in gowns.
Is Dolly, of Toowoomba, on the Downs.
N.S.W.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, September 5, 1014.
My Dear Ti i a kgci mi no aii ,
Recently-returned Premier Digby Denham
turned on a garden party at the University
grounds pn Monday afternoon, in honor of
the British ■* Scientists, and then found he
had such a busy day on hand that he couldn’t
go to his own party: -- So the -Arthur Mor-
gans ''filled the breach, or bridged the gap,
and extended the welcome hand.
It was a much better-dressed party than
the one last Friday. Probably this is
by the fact that the percent-
age of scientific female was appreciably less,
and that of Our fiuinC-grown daughters much
greater.
The' glaring exception to the tasteful garb-
ing was a lady who wore a quite usual grey
FOR THE COMMON FUND.
CASUAL FREEND: “ Hallo, Truffles, what are you all waiting here for?”
TRUFFLES (heavy tragedian): “Ok, our juvenile lead is drawing his old-age pension to-day.”
crepe de chine frock, a pair* of startling high-
heeled silk shoes which in pattern resembled
a dyed tiger-skin, and a much befeathered
hat. She'also wore a military cape of black
satin, which had two enormous tango roses
affixed to its .tail. There is, after all, a
greater courage than the merely physical,
Tliargomindah.
The scientists have departed from our
midst, and have left varied feelings of affec-
tion. They were particularly varied when
one hospitable member of our squattocracy
came to settle up a bill with a city hotel-
keeper fdr the expenses of a party of the
perambulating Congress. She (it was a
lady squatter) had offered to pay the. board
and lodging of this party, and the invitation
had been thankfully accepted by the local
committee in charge of the accommodation
arrangements. Apparently it was thank-
fully accepted, also, by/ the guests.
Anyhow, they had charged up more
things than she had heard of in her wildest
moments. It. was like the. .insolvency.,
schedule of the Jubilee Juggins, or Clarence’s
dream of the sea-bottom.
Dr. Sydney Page and Lucy North,
daughter of F. North, of Wyvanhoe station,
were allotted to one another for better, or
as near it as possible, at Dara on Wednes-
day.. Dr. Fred Page umpired on behalf of
his brother, and Miss Kathleen de Warren
was an- artistic maid of honor. The moon
shines on the Northern Rivers.
The Aldenliam churned into this pqrt on
Wednesday, and cheery Dr. Stevens ,’had a
sad taje to-relate of swooning women pas-
sengers while a totally unlighted ship stole
night after night towards Darwin. JNo
German cruiser was sighted, but every un-
usual sound aboard the Aldenham was, to
the nervous human cargo, the preliminary
to the rattle of Kaiser William’s naval
artillery.
The Houtman also arrived on Wednesday,
with a number of very irate, and, in some
cases, financially-embarrassed passengers,
who had been unceremoniously dumped
down in Java from the German boat KOOll.
Perhaps when thfe war is- over Australians
will remember that by travelling aboard lineis
that are'■-subsidised by the German Govern-
ment they practically are paying for the
powder* and shot that is employed to sink
British or Australian ships. The fact of the
N.J7.L. boats being subsidised by the swash-
buckling and sabre-s r winging nation accounts
for their being able to carry passenger traffic
at less than Australian rates.
On Wednesday night Miss St. Ledger s
dancing pupils gave a ball to swell the
Patriotic funds. It was a . masterly
manoeuvre from every point of view. _ The
Mayor and Mayoress added their blessing to
the gathering, which tangoed in a cheerful
rose-colored artificial light.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Wyanifarie”: “Rangoon” (B. 20/8/’l4)
says the Atherton (N.Q.) scrub is now get-
ting some of the attention that has been
owing it for years, and mentions that a new
butter factory there will, before the end of
the year, be turning out 25 tons of butter
per week. But how many tons of butter will
it take to pay for the initial cost of clearing
this land? At a very conservative estimate
it would cost about £7 per acre to put it
under .grass, and tips, added to the State’s
price (about £5 per acre), makes rather a
big handicap for the prospective pioneer.
That there are plenty willing to take up this
burden is due to the. simple fact that almost
all the good, naturally-grassed Country is,
thanks to the consistent policies of Banana-
land Governments, in the possession of big
holders. Also, as a side issue, how many
tons Of buffer will it take to pay for the
millions of feet of first-class timber destroyed
to make room for the cow. Finally, isn’t this
destruction of one fine asset to build up
another rather akin to a crab’s progress?
“Bill Sikes”: About the first people in
Australia to reali.se that there was a shindy
on in Europe were the Brisbane butchers.
Under cover of a strong chorus of “Buie
Britannia” they made it known to an already
suffering public that from the Monday fol-
lowing meat would go up a penny per
pound, with a further penny a pound tor
delivery. Thus does the Queensland chop
rally to the aid of Paris in its hour ot
need, wliile the cutlet and the steak take up*
a strong position round distressed Antwerp..
“Sawdust”: The' wholesale slaughter of
forests in Bananaland never fails to evoke
strong words of condemnation from vaii
ous' visitors to the State, especially those
visitors whose opinion is most valuable. I ro-
fessor Armstrong, of the visiting Science
Congress, said in Brisbane : —-
You are destroying your forests in a way that is
perfectly shameful. No words too hard, can con-
demn the fearful destruction going on m this country.
Something must now be done if you would pi event
the curse of posterity coming upon you.
Who is this Posterity that eminent butter-
merchants like, say, Digby Denham should
concern themselves about him i \\ hat bor-
rower, or importer or forest-buiuer evci
heard of Posterity V
England has only just got out the Blue
Book analysing its last census. It shows
(for England and Wales) a decrease in the
building trade and in Anglican clergymen;
an increase in authors —especially of the
feminine sort —and R.C. clergymen. Britain
pays a lot of people to amuse it. Artists,
counting in those who paint, sculp, engrave
or photograph, reach the astonishing total of
42,000 (architects 9000, not included in
that). And musicians number 47,000! After
that, the mere 18,000 actors—just half of
them female —and 6600 variety artists seem
but a handful. However, it is probable that
in and after the present crisis quite a num-
ber of all the above will he under the horri-
ble necessity of getting Work. Incidentally,
England (including Wales) has 5.1,00 P
policemen, one cop to every 679 of the popu-
lation.
W’y Didn’t I?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Chinese make excellent husbands. ’’ l
—Current superstition.
When Billo, full up ter the brim,
An’ smellin’ all swGGt iroiii tlicr spioc,
A’ callin’ ’is ’Liza a limb
Lets loose on the kiddies an’ me
W’en tables go dancin’ ter smash,
An’ noses get broke in the low,
I cries in the midst er the crash—
“W’y didn’t I marry the Chow?’
Ah Soo is the boss in our lane,
’E drives in a motor ter town,
’ls'wife (as was Middleton’s Jane)
She flashes a tailor-made gown ;
’ls eyes—they are squinny and queer,
’E’s a garden an’ ’ouse an’ a sow,
’E’s also a‘stranger ter beeu —
W’y didn’t I marry the Chow?
Jane sez ’e is lovin’ an’ kind,
’ls kiddies are decently drest,
An’ if she’s ter pleasure inclined
’E gives ’er ’er choice o’ the best;
W’ile Billo ’is skinful must get
No matter who pays it or how ;
No wonder we’re mostly in debt—
W’y didn’t I marry the Chow?
Wot ’arm in them narrow, black eyes?
(I’ve sometimes a black ’un meself.)
’ls color I own I despise,
Though pigtails is now on the shell;
But ’stead of a barrel like Bill,
’E ’as room in ’is yard fer a cow,
An’ Jane ’as a drive at ’er will—
W’y didn’t I marry the Chow?
Soo’s baby’s a fat ’un an’ round—
(l own I don’.t care fer the tint) ;
’E’s never seen short of a pound
(I think I’d get over the squint) ;
’ls features are certainly plain,
’ls legs just a trifle they bow —
Ah! there is Bill ’owlin’ again—
W’y didn’t I marry the Chow?
Me furnichur’s mostly in pop,
Me weddin’ ring’s gone up the spout;
But Billo must ’ave ’is wee drop
No matter wot we do without ; _
I’ve cried till the neighbors come in,
Inquirin’ ’oo’s killin’ me now,
I wish—if it wasn’t a sin—
Bill’s missis ’ad married the Chow.
It narks me that Jenny Ah Soo
Should sail by the door in ’er silk,
• W’ile Bill lias a mighty to-do
To find me the price er the milk.
She lives on the fat o’ the land,
I live by the sweat o’ me brow —
No wonder I can’t understand
W’y didn’t I marry the Chow?
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER F.


n
'
" J.
■ '■ \:v.' ■;
*r
.
v.<- . v::
'sfvvQ
QUALITY
i 4'
TELLS
0 0
' .
*0
m
■
■
y
v
sJ
\. .
ro
■
O'
O'
; 111
IlliPlillli
r
c/
5
r
*
:
I .-' - *' ,
gf . '■_ >**•*
-
l. .... •:;-* ., <A
* *" - "A *•■-,> &
«> ‘ :
n-
“■“'*>-« «■* , v«*obAk*,, ' >1
: ■ :-S ' -.;
■
-
■
. __ - ??
_
w ; .:'•• . m» w
W
v- s ***
91 s ,*
»-
■
'fin
m
■. .
Y
W**»
inn*
-'• ,; :?
PSSS 1
Hr
u
,
THE LOYALTY OF MOTORISTS
to these Australian-made Tyres is justified, for they are the Tyres that give the Best
Results in Australasia to-day. Their Quality represents Strength and Long Service.
ALL SIZES NOW IN STOCK.
THE
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING GARAGES.
PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION.
LTD.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUSTRALASIA
(Founders of the Pneumatic Tyre Industry)
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE, LAUNCESTON, WELLINGTON, and CHRISTCHURCH.


3
WovenNamkp
VV7L weave your name
or initials in Turkey
Red Lettering, in any one
of several styles, on Fine
Cambric Tape. This gives
a simple, permanent and
most satisfactory method of.
marking linen and clothing.
NEVER WEAR OFF
NEVER FADE
NEVER WASH OUT
Obtainable all Drapers
and Clothiers.
Ask for CASH'S ■
the name's on the box
Ymr M&me
Write tor Samples to
J. & J. Cash Ltd.
246-250 Flinders Lane.
Melbourne.
1
Exclusive Agent
Send to-day
26
SHARPS
AMIGO
for PILES
WHY SUFFER?
GET RELIEF.
“ SHARPS AMIGO”
FOR PILES.
\n unfailing remedy
for Itching, Protrud-
ing or Bleeding
PILES
T CURES —GIVES
EASE AT ONCE.
2/6 a Jar from
J. H. LITHGOW,
Chemist,
136 Charles Street,
LAUNCESTON.
The Ideal Travelling Rug
for Service is the . . .
MOSGIEL
RUG
It is so extremely cosy,
so fleecy and full of
warmth and so durable.
Sold at all the
Best Shops.
[3
THE GREAT REMEDY.
MM’s
w GOUT V
RHEUMATIC PILES.
The severe pain of Rheumatism, Lumbago.
Sciatica, hieuralgia can be relieved by
BLAIR’S BILLS, the Medicine that lias
stood the test of Time. Purely vegetable.
Sure and Safe. Sold by all Drug Stores'
and 22!) Strand, London, England, in Boxes
at Is. and 2s. fid.
Wholesale Agents: Elliott Bros. Ltd..
F. H. Faulding and Co.. Sydney, and others.
fhtncceci,
TOUCHES
THE
SPOT
THE PIONEER OF SKIN CURES
No household should be without it.
Fop ECZEMI, PILES, SCALDS, BURNS,
CUTS, BRUISES, SORES, and all Skin
Complaints.
For Free Sample enclose Two Penny Stam-v~.
LYALL WILLIS & CO.,
Sole IVhol sale Agents,
127, York Street, Sydney.
Mother’s
Friend—
PEDIC POMADE for THE HEAD
Strikes infesting vermin dead. One applica-
tion destroys vermin, kills nits, heals sores, cures
ringworm, and makes the hair grow thick and
curly. Kills lice on live stock.
Sydney Agents: Talbots, 206 George Street;
and Washington Soul. Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, or posted from J. Brin, Chemist,
Kast Malvern. Vic.—l/2, 2/3, 3/9, and with Nit
Comb, 6d.. extra.
ANAEMIA
and Weakness
in Men, Women, and Children
Dr. ANDREW WILSON writes :
“It can be definitely stated
“ that Iron ‘Jelloids’ constitute
“ the most effective and desirable
“ treatment for Anaemia or Poor-
ness of Blood. The sufferer is able
“to take Iron ‘Jelloids’ without dmjer,
“even with pleasure, and with the sure
“knowledge that benefit will accrue.”
and re “MEN AND TONICS.”
“There is a curious notion entertained by
“ the General Public that Iron Medicaments
“ are necessary for women only, and not for
“Men. This is an erroneous idea. Now I
“ have found the form of Iron ‘ Jelloids ’ put
“up with Quinine (c i lied Iron ‘Jelloids’
“No. 2a) to be an excellent tonic for men,
“and may be specially recommended.”
Breathing, hurried and gasping, on the slightest exertion, pale cheeks
lacking the ruddy glow of health, bloodless lips, a general feelingof weari-
ness-accompanied maybe by pain after food, indigestion—constipation,
listlessness, inability of application to any pursuit or even train of thought
depression of spirits, and irritability of temper. Such symptoms indicate
Anrnmia, and should, on no account, be neglected.
*
will remove the causes and symptoms of Anremia. Iron is
what your system requires. By talcing it in the form of Iron
‘Jelloids’ the not uncommon disadvantages of other Iron
tonics are avoided. No ill-effects are set up. No constipation.
No “rust” in the stomach. No danger of non-absorption.
No fear of injury to the teeth. If you would have radiant
health, an elastic step and well braced nerves, you must
have healthy blood To improve and strengthen the blood
take Iron ‘Jelloids,’ commended by Medical Men, and
favourably reviewed by the Medical Press. As a general
tonic Iron ‘Jelloids ’ are excellent. They are pleasant and
easy to take.
A Reliable Tonic
Mr. J. 11andford, 22, Station Road, Northwich, writes:— "lron ‘Jelloids’
have done me more good than anything I have taken. I had Rheumatic
Fever and it left me in a very low state of health; I took Iron ‘Jelloids
and found they were doing me a great deal of good; they have put new
life into me.”
A Fortnight s Trial (price 1/6) will
convince you.
IRON JELLOIDS ARE SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALIA.
No. i for Children ; No. 2 for Adults, Men and Women ;
No. 2 a (containing Quinine) Special Tonic for Men.
Wholesale: DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES LTD., 82, Pitt Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Manufactured only by
Ths * Jelloid’ Co., 205. City Rd., London, England.
Buyers of
HORROCKSES’
LONGCLOTHS and
MADAPOLAMS
Have a guarantee if they will see HORROCKSES’
name on Sel /edge that they are getting the very .
best that the Old Country produces.
Decline all Substitutes
Sold by all Fi st-Class Drapers and Storekeepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS. 3
THEY are called “Bostock Gold Medal Shoes”
in most stores. The great reputation they
enjoy to-day throughout Australasia has been
won by sincerity of manufacture Honest through
and through, they prove in wear to he as good as
they look. Under their beautiful finish are always
found the choicest of materials ; and, whether on
the foot or in the hand, the skilful work, con-
spicuous in every pair, never fails to command
one’s admiration.
Bostocks are the cream of imported shoes.
Special shipments have recently arrived at the
leading stores, and ladies should call before the
choicest styles are sold.
. :/ j
Style
803
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appeal on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Zeppelin: You say yon “opened your
mind” to us. Well, we happened to be passing when
it was opened, and the interior was dark and
unfurnished. .. .K.: It was reported that the Crown
Prince of Germany was killed. It is now reported
that he is leading an army. Both state-
ments may be true. When the Crown Prince dies
his next brother becomes Crown Prince. In the
same way the new king attains the throne at the
exact one billionth of a second when the old king
breathes his last. .. .Billy Blue: The fact that the
Carringtons were originally plain Smiths has been
done to death. .. .Biltong: Don’t know the man, and
as we have struggled along all these years without
his acquaintance we hope to bear up to the end....
Douglas L. : T&e Bulletin. .. .J.M.: Don’t know.
Probably the Leeds Mercury could tell you.... Slab
Heap: Twenty-five years ago they used to recall it
about a Chinaman. .. .A.C.S.: Wouldn’t pass the
censor. .. .Ilfracombe: A difficult question to answer
owing to the bald way in which it is framed. He
was recalled, originally from Colombo, to London,
in connection with a Ceylon scandal. Arrived in
London no one knows for certain what happened to
him. The popular yarn is that Lord Roberts invited
him to die gracefully, and that he went to Paris and
shot himself in an hotel. Other yarns state that the
is still alive and organising armies in China and
elsewhere. An amazing lot of lies gather round
such a case as his.... Tiaki: Surprised that you did
not know the Maori and the brandy story was as old
as the sign of Lombardy.... Dick S.: Good luck....
Namos: No, not now ; the war between the Mexicans
and the Suffragettes has concluded. It ended in a
draw....F. W. Bam ford: Had to shut down on that
wrangle. .. .A.K.: Copy of verses by Rab Scott from
Charleville Times special edition to hand. For-
warded to the tripe department of the friendly Dago
next door but two. . . .11.N.03 : You start almost every
word with a capital letter. You even write “Lead
Carbonate” as if the thing was the name of a god,
and you write “Soda” as if soda was Jupiter Ammon.
Also, you don’t punctuate worth a cent. A thing like
that isn’t worth fixing up. . . .P.T.: The Australia was
built under an arrangement made at the Imperial
Conference on Defence held in London in 1909. In
the earlier part of the year the Fisher Government
had decided that Australia should have a small
modern fleet of its own, and gave orders for the con-
struction of three torpedo boat destroyers. These
were to be followed by the construction of 20 other
vessels. In June of that year the Fisher Ministry
was defeated, and Deakin followed with the first
“Fusion” Ministry, Colonel Foxton (a Minister with-
out portfolio) being selected to represent Australia
at the Defence Conference, which decided on the
present naval construction programme.... Les H. P.:
“Branch” doesn’t rhyme with “entrance,” and never
will. .. .Sydney C.: We observe you glimmering in
indelible pencil on semi-transparent paper. At the
present moment two of the staff are off duty owing
to eye-trouble ; and the survivors are not taking any
unnecessary risks. Basket... .R.G.11.: Nothing doing.
....Geelong: Lie down, Geelong!... .Will F. (V.):
Yours is the sort of literature that makes war,
addles eggs and sours the milk of human kindness.
....Marguerite C.: Dear lady, did you ever meet a
theatrical manager in the Flesh — and the Devil?....
E.A.: Send it direct to the Kaiser. While he is
deciphering it the Allies may be able to make a
flank attack and roll up his army. .. .Annette E. J.:
Yes, wave the flag of freedom and give three cheers
for the Intelligence Department, where they sort the
basket’s spoil in the intervals of making afternoon
tea, peeling potatoes and frying steak and onions.
They will be able to deal with more of your stuff
when they get their range and washing boiler....
E.W.P.L. (M.L.) : Let’s make a duet of it. You
lead off:—
ADVICE.
You know, my lad, you’d better stay, the sheep
they must be shore,
And ploughing will come round again the same as
days afore
(Literary Staff — loudly):
It will indeed ! It will! It will! (Don’t send us any
more!)
. . . .Domine: Sorry, too trivial. . . .Pendant: Napoleon
never talked like that. . . .R.M.V. (W.A.) : Stand on
the coast and sing it as the ships go by. .. .Tahuna:
Unsuitable. .. .M.V. : The material is there, but you
can’t make it up attractively.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
1.11. C.: Got no use for flag design. .. .V.S.: Did
you ever think of learning drawing?. .. .Mrs. K.:
Don’t tempt us to speak roughly to a lady....
J.A.P.: His Honor’s nose looks like a duck’s beak.
It would be contempt of court to publish such a
thing. .. .R C.: What you want is more elbow-room.
Draw on the pavement .. . . K.M.8.: No humor in your
line J/.G.W.: Dreadful diagram W.E.S. (M.L.) :
Splendidly unoriginal. .. .B.S W.: Your war cartoon
was so bad that we decided to reproduce it. As you
will see, the reduction has “improved” it into the
mediocre division. As published, it is no longer bad
enough to be humoro 'S. The editor adds his regrets
to the humble apologies of the art department where
the improving was done: —
. ...H.W. (V.). Suggestion about as useful as an
umbrella in a battle. .. .M E. 8.: It will be a wall
and a firing party for you if you don’t cease being
the sort of artist you are. .. .R.V.C.: It’s a poor, tor-
tured idea....R.H. (Q.) : Not taking soup, thanks.
. ...R.E.8.: A bit early, don’t you think?... .S.P.:
Just a spotted mystery. .. .R.R.C.: You can’t wash
away the artistic sins you’ve committed in line.
Learn to draw. .. .G. 1.: Your own, of course?....
Ted H.: It’s a sad, scratchy thing... .C.H.P.: Out
of date and feeble Tom C.: Drawing poor and
humor forced....A. McC. (W.A.): With your little
mapping pen you have produced something formless
like a mass of fine wire. Buy some tuition or a
book on drawing... .J.E.M. : It's a complete atrocity
by itself.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“the: childrens food.”
THE UNION BANK of AUSTRALIA Limited.
o
BALANCE-SHEET, FEBRUARY 28, 1914.
LIABILITIES.
Capital,
£6,00.tL000 ; less
reserve liability
thereon,
£4,000,000 ; paid-
up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . 1,960,000 0 0
Balance of un-
divided profits.. 185,509 14 3
-£4,145,509 14 3
Circulation .. £183.408 0 0
Deposits (includ-
ing inscribed
stock deposits) 23,538,534 5 1
Bills payable and
other liabilities
(including re-
serves held
against contin-
gencies) .. 1,714,21 G 7 7
25,436,158 12 8
£29,581,668 6 11
ASSETS.
Specie on hand and cash balances.. £4,789,031 13 11
Bullion and advances on bullion . . 164,147 17 8
Money at call and short notice in
London . . . . . . . . 1,805,000 0 0
Investments—
On Account of Reserve Fund —-
Stocks or bonds
of, or guaran-
teed by, the
Biitish govern-
ment ; colonial
Government and
British Corpora-
tion stocks . . £1,000,000 0 0
Other Investments—
Stocks or bonds
of, or guaran-
teed by, the
British Govern-
ment, £165,386
ss. 6d., Indian
and Colonial
Government
stocks, £438,192
19s. 6d. ; muni-
cipal and other
securities,
£416,854 45.,10d. 1,020,433 9 10
2,020,433 9 10
Balance of remittances and drafts
in transit, and bills receivable at
London office ' .. . . . . 3,992,361 7 0
£12,770,974 8 5
Bills discounted, loans and other
securities at the branches and in
London 16,306,478 9 1
Bank premises in Australia and
New Zealand .. .. ~ 387,600 0 0
London leasehold
premises . . £142,304 19 4
Reserves against
same and accrued
interest . . 25,689 9 11
- ■ 116,615 9 5
£29,581,668 6 11
STATEMENT OF PROFITS.
Balance of undivided profits on August 30, 1913
Less dividend and bonus—January, 1914
Leaving a balance of
Profits of the past half-year, after making provision in respect of bad
and doubtful debts and other contingencies . . . . . . £360,430 19 2
Less:
Remuneration to the local directors and salaries
and allowances to the colonial staff .. .. ..£113,818 16 3
General expenses in the colonies, including rent,
taxes, stationery, etc. . . . . . . . . . . 48,307 13 11
Remuneration to the Board of directors and
auditors, salaries of London office staff, rent,
taxes, stationery, and general expenses .. . . 17,478 19 9
Income tax.. .. .. .. .. .. .. 9,742 14 11
. £149,426 19 11
. 105,000 0 0
£44,426 19 11
189,348 4 10
171,082 14 4
Deduct:
Transfer to Reserve Fund
£215,509 14
30,000 0
Balance of undivided profits at this date .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £185,509 14 3
London, July 7, 1914.
H. P. STURGIS. W. R. MEWBURN, O. T. MILLS, Directors.
A. C. WILLIS, Manager. W. A. LAING, Accountant.
AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE AND REPORT.
In accordance, with the provisions of Section 113 of the Companies (Consolidation) Act 1908, we report
to the shareholders as follows:
We have examined the above balance-sheet with he books at head office, and have had access to the
branch accounts transmitted to the Head Office from Australia and New Zealand. We have verified the
correctness of the cash, money at call and short nctee, investments and the bills of exchange held in
London, and having obtained all the information and explanations we have required, we are of opinion
that such balance-sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view 'of the state of the
Company’s affairs, according to the best of our information and the explanations given to us, and as shown
by the books of the Company and the said branch accounts.
WHINNEY, SMITH and WHINNEY, Chartered Accoutants, Auditors.
London, July 7, 1914.
MAKE
£4O A
MONTH
I If you are making
less than £lO a week
write us today. Wo
can help you to wealth
and independence by
our plan, you can work
when you please, where
you please, always
have money and the
means of making bar-
rels more of it.
JUST LISTEN TO
THIS. Mr. Lloyd took
a IQOO-rbflc trip accom-
panied by wife and
child. He stayed at
the best Hotels, lived
like a Lord wherever ho went and
cleaned up more than £2 every day
he was opt. Another man worked
the carnivals and resorts, and when
there was nothing special to do, just
started out on any street he hap-
pened to select, got busy and pulled
in £i-io a day for month after
month. This interests you, don’t it?
HSF* my proposition I
Is a WONDERFUL NEW CAMERA with which you can take and instantaneously develop
pictures on paper, Post Cards and Tintypes. Every picture is developed without films or neg-
cu stonier in a minute after making the exposure. THIS
? INVENTION takes 100 pictures an hour and pays you a profit of from 500
to 1,500 per cent. Everybody wants pictures and each sale you make advertises your business
and makes more sales, for you. Simple instructions accompany each outfit and you can begin
to make money m a short time after the outfit reaches you.
WHF W*T WE TRUST YOU
p HAVE WE in our proposition that we TEUST YOU for part
Of the cost of the outfit. The regular selling price of the Camera and complete working outfit
is reasonable. The profits are so big, so quick, so sure that you could afford to pay the full
pnce if weasked you to do so. But we are so absolutely certain that you can make big money
S?£4othe I§stmonth? " 0t Pay UnI6SS y ° U dean
. . d ® lay a n 4 t^-!r IS today for our free catalog and full particulars. Address
either office. L . LASCELLE, & 88* IM4
BE YOUR
OWN
ON TNE NOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size- Price, 21s.
All folk who know
what is good when they
taste, should at once taste
Birds
the Perfect CUSTARD.
Its delicious flavor and creamy
richness are simply a revelation!
Sold in Pkts., Boxes and new LARGE Tins.
Try also BIRD’S Crystal JELLY It dissolves instantly.
POST FREE.—*A Valuable Recipe Book sent, on receipt of address, by
W. C. Douglass, 53, Liverpool Street, Sydney.
ARE YOU DEAF?
an
EARPHONE
GIVES PERFECT HEARING
The object of the Danjhill
Earphone is to enable
deaf people to hear.
By simply wearing a Danjhill Earphone a deaf person can sit in a room and hear
all the conversation with perfect ease. It collects sounds from all directions without
losing anv of their strength.
It transmits the voice clearly, and can be used in a Public Hall, Theatre or Church.
For years past Jertlans Ltd. have been successfully attending to the eye
troubles of the public.
If your eyes fail you naturally take to spectacles.
Why not let us treat your ears with the Danjhill Earphone? The result
will be perfect.
SOLE AGENTS?
JERDAN’S LTD.,
393 George Street, City.
My Opticians,
The Best-Known Trade Mark in the World,
The “His Master’s Voice” Gramophone design has
become a household word, and the quaint little fox terrier at
attention before the horn is more familiar to Australians than
any of the world’s great masterpieces.
I
COVYRIGHT.
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE.”
The Most Valuable Trade Mark in the World
It stands for all that is best in music. It is the mark of
quality —the sign by which you shall distinguish “ His
Master’s Voice” Gramophones, the most wonderful and
most versatile entertainers of the age. British manufacture.
ACCREDITED DEALERS EVERYWHERE-
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE HAND
The National
flonthly, 6d,


Although Australia is allied with Timbuctoo in a
war against united Austria and Germany, there are
still among her citizens men who have faith in the
future of our continent. One of them invented a
new and wonderful gas cooker the other day, and
some more of them gazed upon it, and said: “It is
good. We’ll set to work to get it manufactured in
large quantities, and thereby make money for our-
selves and keep a lot of decent fellows in work.” The
chief peculiarities and advantages of this Australian
invention are that the gas fumes never come in'
contact with the food. Also, it is not dependent on
gas supplied by any Private Enterprise co., supplies
which are always iiable to be cut off owing to in-
dustrial troubles. It will work on acetylene or
petrol gas, and if there is no gas of any sort avail-
able it will eat wood, coal, coke, briquettes, oil,
benzine or any old thing. It sounds fairly impossi-
ble, but, all the same, it is quite a simple matter.
Instead of having a multiplicity of burner's ranged
round the inside of the ovens and under the rings, this
stove has only three. They burn in a firebox charged
with asbestos blocks, which, when they become in-
candescent. radiate a tranquil- and regular heat that
flies round and round an oven that is hermetically
sealed. Caserole cooking, the finest in the world, is
never seen to advantage with an ordinary gas cooker,
and is always the product of wood or coal stoves.
But it can be done best of all on this gas cooker on
account of its steadily maintained, -even standard of
heat, when all Three burners are lit, of 550 V. on
about half the gas used by internal burners. It can
le used as, easily and cleanly on a country homestead
as in a suburban villa.* - - *
Most doctors from goodness of heart treat some
cases without expectation of payment, but did you
ever know of a doctor who returned fees when he
failed to cure ? The Union Manufacturing Com-
pany guarantee to return paid if
Wright’s Rheumatia /jffemedy, "/thef Canadian
cure, does ,fTot/cure wiur
or fftdpey //roubles^iOf-* course,'' this
couliiin<<7bp£'done \s thoije \yere many failures,
and, mattef o 4 fjLcpfc-'fhere have been only
thrddinstances in which the refund
was claimed It pou send to 299 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne, the company will give you full par-
ticulars and a copy of the legally binding guarantee
they issue with the remedy The price is only
5/6 for a full month’s treatment, that is often
sufficient to cure a severe and long-standing case.
Missing Friends.
TO THOMAS DONALDSON, otherwise known as
1 THOMAS SLADE, formerly of OTEPOPO,
Otago, New Zealand, but last heard of in NEW
SOOTH WALES, and to all persons claiming by
through or under liim.
PURSUANT to the directions of Ilis Honor Mr.
Justice Hosking under Section 25 of The Public
Trust Office Amendment Act, 1913, you are hereby
called upon to send in to the undersigned on or
before the Ist day of October, 1915, your claim
to part of the estate of JOSEPH DONALDSON,
late of OTEPOPO, settler, deceased, who died on
the 27th November, 1871, failing which such estate
will be distributed among the persons entitled
thereto under the will of deceased disregarding your
claims.
Dated at Wellington, this 27th day of August, 1911.
J. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Legal Notices.
To JAMES BILLING, formerly of Auck-
land District, New Zealand, but last
heard of in Sydney, and to all persons
claiming by, through or under him.
PURSUANT to the directions of his
Honor Sir Robert Stout, K.C.M.G.,
Chief Justice of New Zealand, under Sec-
tion 25 of The Public Trust Office Amend-
ment Act, 1913, you are hereby called upon
to send in to the undersigned on or before
the 31st day of October, 1914. your claim to
part of the estate of Josepli Billing, late
of Waihopo, Auckland, Gumdigger, de-
ceased, who died' on the 3rd day of March,
1914, intestate, failing which such estate
will be distributed among the persons entitled
thereto, disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this first day of
July, 1914.
J. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Rusiness Announcements,
WAVERLEY PENS
i .
FOR SWIFT LEGIBLE WRITING NO PEN
CAN COMPETE WITH A WAVERLEY.
ITS ENTICING ACTION, ITS SMOOTH
TURNED-UP POINT, AND ITS DURA-
BILITY, MAKE IT INCOMPARABLY THE
BEST NIB AND THE CHEAPEST. THE
RESERVOIR WAVERLEY CAN DO 200
WORDS WITH ONE DIP. TRY IT.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS.
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
521 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE :
Let the Motor
pump your
Tyres with
the Mayo
Pump.
No auto owner
will continue using
a back - breaking
hand pump after
once being shown
this device. With this pump tyres easily can be
kept up to pressure'at all times. Hence full mile-
age service will be obtained which will result
in a saving of 25% ift the tyre expense. 50,000
satisfied users are our best recommendation.
Instantly attached to any engine (European
or American). Remove spark plug and. screw
pump in its place. Start the motor and your
tyre is inflated with pure fresh air in from
two to four minutes. Just watch the gauge, it
tells the exact pressure.
Write to-day to us or to our nearest dis-
tributor.
MAYO MANUFACTURING CO„
69E 18th STREET, CHICAGO, U.S.A.
Stockists: CARRATS LTD., Sydney, N.S.W.
R. B. SPINKS & CO., Auckland, N.Z.
The Self-filling
Safety Fountain
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
ndr spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Works: Birmingham, Engrlandi
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
“L.Ii.P.”: After all this boost of Aus-
tralian-produced opera, it is well to recall
some of the pioneers in this field who got
their works to the footlights. Luscombe
Searelle wrote a dainty work, “Estrella, m
which Nellie Stewart appeared with the rest
of the Royal Comic principals. Majeroni
and Wilson produced the same composers
“Bobadil” and “The" Black Rover” (the
latter reached, the ’Globe Theatre, London).
Auguste W. Juncker, who so often con-
ducted for the Williamson firm, wrote three
operas, “The Queen’s Page,” “A Romance
of Corsica,” and “Zelma,” all of which
reached the public through amateur sources,
as did Arundel Orchard’s and William Cur-
tis’s efforts at the Sydney Palace. Of these
“The Emperor” and “The Coquette” were
the best. At the same house was produced
Alfred Hill’s “Moorish Maid.” Earlier in
our musical history “Tapu” got its bap-
tism at Her Majesty’s. The book of “Tapu
was from the pen of Arthur Adams, of
The Bulletin, and the book of “The Moor-
ish Maid” was by John Birch, ..of Auckland
(M.L.) Herald. At the Criterion, in 1902,
the once well-known opera tenor, Clarence
Leumane joined with Ernest Truman in
an operatic version of “The Bells,” under
the title of “Mathis,” the title role being-
taken by Leumane. Tom Rainford, Edward
Farley, Bertha Hugh Huxham and Annie
Perry were the other principals. Carmini
Morley’s opera, “The Two Brides ;” Fred
W. Jones’ “The Monarch of Utopiaand
Squarise’s “Fabian,” all done in Maoriland,
were works not to be sneezed at. The
strange thing about all these works, bar
“Tapu,” is that there is no attempt made
to portray Australian life. Why doesn’t
someone write the great, enduring opera,
“Kangaroo.”
“L.H.P,” : lie the Solomon-Stephens oper-
atic firm mentioned in B. 23/7/T4 and
other later issues, it is strange that none of
their operas were exploited much in Aus-
tralia. Possibly Williamson, Garner and
Musgrove’s experience with “Billee Taylor,”
produced in Melbourne in the early ’Bo’s,
had something to do with the matter. The
opera* so popular in England and America,
had at the end of three weeks to be with-
drawn, after entailing a loss of £lOOO.
Howard Vernon subsequently introduced it
and “Tambour Major” to Maoriland in 1883,
as the chief novelties of his opera company,
but “Billee” proved a duffer, although J. A.
Crain, Blanche Lewis, Elsa May and Fred
Dark did their best for it. “The Red Hus-
sar” was never done out here, but it
enjoyed a good run at the London Lyric
in 1889, with Hayden Coffin, Ben Davies
(here on a concert tour in 1911), Arthur
Williams and Marie Tempest as chief ex-
ponents. This gay military opera of Marl-
borough’s time, with its scenes in Flanders,
would bear reproduction now. “Claude
Duval” was not a great success in London.
Solomon often sought other librettists, and
his Savoy Theatre contribution in 1891 was
on a “book” from the pen of Geo ; Dance.
This opera, called “The Nautch Girl,” had
a quintet in the Rossinian style, and the
music generally was bright and crisp.
Courlice Pounds, W. 11. Denny and Rutland
Barrington were in the cast. Ada Baker
was once going to produce it in Westralia,
but the project fell through. “Polly” (done
at the London Empire before “Pocahontas”
was staged there), was from the pen of
Edward Mortimer. “Pocahontas” was writ-
ten by Sydney Grundy, and was done at the
Empire in the Christmas season of 1884-5,
with Robert Brough, Alice Barnett, Willie
Warde and J. L. Shine (all destined later
to delight Australians), on the roster. Solo-
mon and Stephefis deliberately copied Gilbert
and Sullivan, but at such a respectable dis-
tance that none of their operas have
survived the test of time.
“C. Oekney” : I see that recently-deceased
Sydney Grundy left just upon £38,000, a
decent little pile for a long-retired drama-
tist. He - was a capital business man, ar.d
that lie remained so right up-to the finish
is evidenced by the clause in his will where-
in he leaves all his manuscripts, copyrights
and stage rights to his daughter, Emily,
strongly advising her not to realise, sell or
part with any of these copyrights or stage
rights. Fees for the performing rights of
“A Pair of Spectacles,” “A Village Priest”
and many another Grundy piece must still
amount to a considerable sum, and a steady
income from this source alone is assured to
Grundy’s daughter.
“Kaniva”: Major Trevor, who accom-
panied an English cricket team to Australia,
has written a playlet named “The Silence of
Gold.” The plot hangs on the matter of a.
baronet , who falls in love with and marries
a dumb girl. The loss of speech came about
through a nerve-racking experience in a :
shipwreck. It is reckoned that a counter
shock will bring back speech to the bride,
so a friend volunteers to pretend to shoot
the bridegroom. So far all is well, but when
the smoke from the blank cartridge clears
away the high-born lord is staggered, by the
Cockney twang of the loved one: “Thank
Gawd, ’e didn’t ’it yer.”
The Loan Land’s P.N.
Almost every day since war began to rumble
excited cable messages from Maoriland have
been published-in the newspapers, conveying
to a breathlessly indifferent multitude the
allegation that the Isles are “financially
sound” —or, at any rate, sound in the
opinion of some more or less important per-
son thereabouts. From 1003 to 1913 about
35 millions were secured from Coiien dur-
ing one of the most shocking orgies of wild-
cat finance indulged in by any country on
earth. Indeed, so absolutely has M.L. come
to depend on the pawnshop that before the
last general election lousepii Ward sol-
emnly declared that a cessation of borrowing
would mean general collapse and bankruptcy.
Massey, of course, scoffed loudly in the dis-
tance, but after biffing the glib prodigal who
led the populace away from the sound tradi-
tions of Ballance, he, too, became a sup-
pliant at the Pawnshop, and loans continued
to come along to be blewed after the manner
of the quarterly remittance to derelict
descendants of earls and stockbrokers. Even
in the late budget introduced since the out-
break of war, a demented treasurer announces
his intention of cadging somewhere or other
three millions to go on with. Yet he knows
that on March 31 next Cohen will call round
with a little bill for £5,330,805, and, 13
months later, will want £4,259,702 more —
old loans then falling due. Of course, the
bondholder will be offered a renewal of the
ancient p.n. The madness of it all is
revealed by the simple fact that, while Ward
and Massey have been plunging with 35 mil-
lions of borrowed capital, the country has
had to find 25 millions for interest payments.
And, for the last 12 or 15 years, Coiien
and Co. have been lending on terms more
advantageous to themselves and increasingly
disastrous to the customers. The price of
M.L. stock in London shows a steady and
sinister decline. The Dominion’s razzle has
been gorgeous. The headache to fJlow will
be acute.
—
“Harrison O.” : When the time seems ripe
and the necessary pecuniary encouragement
is given me I will compile an anthology of
“Good Things Famous Men Have Left
Unsaid.” 'lncluded in this volume will be
Kitchener’s alleged advice to the British
expeditionary force to “be courteous to
women, but not more than courteous.”
Defence Minister Millen has now an official
copy of K.’s message, which shows that the
unepigrammatic warrior merely remarked:
“Treat all women with perfect courtesy, but
avoid intimacy.” This only goes to
strengthen my suspicion that more reputa-
tions have been made by artistic misreport-
ing than have ever been marred by untidy
presswork. Even now Wellington is remem-
bered for “Up, guards, and at them!” (the
famous phrase he never used), by thousands
who. if put to it, could not recall a single
word the iron-nosed dook ever actually did
speak. Captain Gronow’s accepted version
of the Wellingtonian order was “Get up,
Guards, and charge.”;- Wellington has also
been accused of “The battle of Waterloo
was won on the playing fields of Eton,”
though he denied the charge to the then
Marquis of Lome with the brief profanity
that characterised him. No words uttered by
the royal George have ever attracted as
much attention as: “Wake up, England,”
which lie was misreported to have said at a
Guildhall banquet on returning from his
last Empire tour. Hereabouts there are
several press minions I wot of who have
consistently played Maggie to the John
Shand of various public men; but I have
yet to meet the politician who. having said
something indiscreet, will hesitate to save
himself by biting the hand that has fed the
public with his unspoken epigrams.
Colonel Bernard Ingleby’s suggestion:—
If civilisation had any real concern for the future
of the race it would sack Kitchener and Kaiser Bill
and all the rest of its Generalissimos, and make Prof.
Bateson, M.A., F.R.S., War Minister of the World.
This scientific high brow holds that the perpetuation
of the unfit is a crime against the community. What
a chance the- present shambles affords to the master
of Genetic research for ridding the world of its
defectives! Modern, science as applied to war has so
largely eliminated the faetpr of hand-to-hand combat
that soldiering to-day is'practically a game of brains
and petrol. The pulling’of a lever or the releasing
of an automatic spring could be as well done by a
wheezy consumptive as art able-bodied Tommy Atkins,
and his death would mean gain to the community.
So why not mobilise an army corps of congenital
idiots', support them with regiments of deformed
lunatics, recruit neurotics and consumptives to do
scout duty, .and there-you are. Norman Angell says
that war doesn’t pay. War of this kind would be
the best paying dnvestmept modern civilisation ever
went in for. The eh'arg’e. of the Lunatic Brigade
would make Cardigan gnash his bones in his grave.
It would stir patriotic poets till the end of time.
A Bleeds Fitcliett of the future could tell in gory
periods how all the generals (yes, I’d make each
lunatic a general, and give him double wisps of
straw to stick in his hair) pharged down upon the
enemy with a gtdrm of catcalls and maniac chortlings
till nothing whs left but a red, reeking welter of
heroic dead. After '"Honor was satisfied and the Lily
of Peace bloomed 1 once more in the land, the little
matter of financial adjustment could be soon
arranged. The saving of cost of upkeep of lunatic
asylums, . hospitals, homes for incurables and other
means by which kind-hearted folk prolong suffering
to-day would liquidate all the national debts of
Europe. If a war of this kind were initiated I, for
one, would eniist right away—anything would be
better than the present enduring of Patriotic Com-
mercial Travellers and Jingo counter-jumpers saving
the King and the nation in every pub in Maoriland.
If he isn’t lucky. Chief Secretary Murray,
of Victoria, will presently have to
employ Jane Cops in place of John
Hops, whether he likes it or not. So
many members of the Hop force have
volunteered for service in the Expedi-
tion that there aren’t nearly enough con-
stables to go round. Bobbies can’t be trained
in a day, and, even if they could, there aren’t
at present enough recruits offering to fill
the gaps. So Murray has asked ex-members of
force to rejoin temporarily; though as they
are expected to re-start at the foot of the
ladder, not where they left off, there is no
great rush of patriarchs to fill the billets.
The chances are that by the time the second
—and possibly the third and fourth—expedi-
tions have left, the Melbourne drunk will be
run in by a hefty woman with a well-devel-
oped muscle apd a way of her own.
Fashion note by “0.K.” :
The 1 two characters in “Bunty” that always get me
thinking are the comparatively stylish girls, crowned
with porkpie hats, who come to divine worship at
Lintieliaugh Kirk, ye ken. They speak not, neither
do thfcy act—they just walk into kirk, and, later on,
they waggle their crinolines back to the wings
whence they came, llow did those girls come to be
at Lintichaugh? Their hats represent the height of
English fashion in 1860, and their outfit is evidently
designed from pictures •in London Punch of the
period. One could accept them as lost tourists in a
strange land if they had a male escort, say a couple
of Johnnies in jackets',' knickerbockers and long-
pointed side-whiskers. But the girls come unattended,
and their porkpie hats make no stir among the'other
worshippers. All the same, Lintieliaugh can't be
accustomed to hear such bits of style from toon. I’d
like to hear Graham Moffat’s explanation of those
two girls. Are they visitors from Glasgow, and, if
so, where are their local rural relatives ?
“T. 0.1.” : The jubilee of St. John’s Angli-
can Church, at Young, N.S.W. (old-time
Lambing Flat), was celebrated recently. The
old church was erected at the expense of
Mrs. Lunan Wilkie, in memory of her hus-
band, Captain John Lunan Wilkie, of the
12tli Regiment, who died in camp while in
command of the troops sent from Sydney to
quell the riots at Lambing Flat. One dig-
ger was killed in a scuffle, but Wilkie died
from a sickness brought on by the insanitary
condition of the camp. Their remains lie
under monuments in the cemetery at Young.
A marble tablet, which was once on the walls
of St. James’s, Sydney, to the captain’s
memory, has for some, reason been removed.
Mrs. Wilkie remarried, her second venture
being Captain G. O’Malley Clai-ke, a Gold
Commissioner, and subsequently one of the
first-appointed stipendiary magistrates of
Sydney. - ■
“Rule Britannia”: Heard, the other day,
of a loyal female who insists on making her
friends miserable by going into mourn-
ing for every royalty who passes. over. She
was holidaying with relatives when the last
ducal death was cabled, and, despite protests,
arrayed herself' in rusty black till she looked
like a funeral. She not only refused to dis-
card the fearful trappings, but accused her
hosts of disloyalty because they would not
follow suit and go spades. A household riot
was only averted by the outbreak of European
war on a large scale and the opening of a
subscription list. When the first excitement
had blown over, someone looked at tire sub-
scription list and made a few inquiries
amongst the Red Cross helpers. One person
only in the whole circle had refrained from
doing a darned thing—it was the chronic
mourner for royalty.
THE PORTRAIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My great Aunt was a woman of much virtue. So
The records tell us. In those roaring days
When the Prince Regent held his spendthrift court,
And cast on her a frank, demanding eye,
My great Aunt to her- country place retired,
Alien at court, in virtue quite at home,
And locking to the housing of her pigs,
The feeding of her. chicks, the bedding down
Of some old spavined hunter from the field,
Grew grey and lean to match her blameless years.
No gallant with his ruffled shirt front came
To bend the shilling rapier o’er his knee,
And make the strained steel hum its Slaughter Song.
There were no moonlight meetings, when the mist
Crawled from the river to the spinney’s edge.
The dawn heard nothing but the plaint of birds
Or oxen lying in the sodden grass.
While the big roses in the green parterre
Budded and burst and died, unpluckt, untlirown
From some dark casement to a hand below.
The ivy by the mullioned window swung
But only to some lilac-scented breeze,
Or a bat’s wing that flurried leaf and twig,
Fleeing before the dawn-streak to its tower....
And never latch lay cold across a palm,
Afraid, yet eager, fumbling to a tryst.!
My great Aunt left some fine embroideries,
Some pillow lace, a sampler frame or two,
A cure for toothache in her stillrcom brewed
(No cure for heartache did my great Aunt need,
Least so the records have it). O’er her grave
They carved some word to prove her large content,
To point how virtue reaps its sure reward.
-Methinks the painter’s hand that limned so well
Had faltered here. Perhaps the brush went deep,
And picked a cover from a human soul. . . .
Perchance it slipped. Else I must wonder why
My great Aunt’s portrait has such thwarted eyes!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


PROMOTED
fa
re
‘-.r
n\
m
M
cum sol
AND OINTMENT
Directions : Make a parting and
rub gently with Cuticura Ointment.
Continue until whole scalp has been
gone over. The next morning sham-
poo with Cuticura Soap and hot
water. Shampoos alone may be
used as often as agreeable, but once
or twice a month is generally suffi-
cient for this special treatment.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold throughout
the world. A liberal sample of each, with 32-page
booklet on the care and treatment of the skin and
scalp, sent post-free. Address R. Towns & Co.#
Sydney. N. S. W.
Drives Sallowness
from the Skin
Ladies, imperfect complexion is caused by
a sluggish liver. A few days’ treatment with
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS will do
more to clean up the skin
than all the beauty
creams in creation.
Cures constipation,
unclogs the liver,
ends indigestion,
biliousness and
dizziness.
Purely vege-j
table, never
fail.
Carters
Mttle
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The GENUINE must bear signature
Most Diseases are
Caused by Microbes
and the microbes produce fermentation
and decay. To cure the disease it is
only necessary to kill the microbes. The
merits of
RADAM’S
Microbe Killer
are well known all over America, in the
East, Canada, England. Europe and
Australia. Write for a booklet to any
of our Agents, who will mail you an
interesting story on the origin and dis-
covery of Radanrs Microbe Killer.
Distributing Agents —-
NEW ZEALAND—MaIcoIm & Grigs, 78
Bond Street, Dunedin.
QUEENSLAND —George Gough & Son,
240 Albert Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Cocking & Co,
Ltd., Topliam Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA—W. W. Dobson.
Agnes Street, Beaconsfield, Fremantle.
NEW SOUTH WALES—Cromack & Co.,
Royal Exchange Offices, Bridge Street,
Sydney.
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA—Duerd in &
Sainsbury, 849 Flinders Lane.
Ask your Chemist, ask your Storekeeper
for Radam's Microbe Killer. It is your
remedy medicine for every ailment.
Cig(ar and Cigarette
Smoßers’ Attention.
Send Eight Shillings for trial box of
100 Manila Cigars, Best Grade. Eight
Shillings for 500 Philippine Cigarettes—cork
tipped Best Grade. Satisfaction or Money
refunded.
Sent prepaid by registered parcel post to
anv address on receipt of price.
Write for handsome illustrated free cata-
logue.
PATTINGELL 8 CO., Lueena, Tayabas, P.I,
1
I
at
m
2
10
9
8
BIG
BEN
7
5
6
“Big Ben—the clock of the hour”
THE traditional pic-
ture of an alarm
clock is that of a
flimsy looking affair
that either rings like a
fire gong or tinkles while
you sleep on.
And the modern conception
is that of BIG BEN —a watch-
like, sturdy, long-lived sleep-
meter that calls you gradually
but promptly and calls until
you’re wide awake.
Big Ben stands 7 inches tall;
he is mounted in a thin model
case, massive, well poised and
triple plated. His face is frank,
open, easy to read —his keys
large, strong, easy to wind —
his voice clear, sunny, pleasant
to hear. It wakes you just
when you want, and either way
you want —with a continuous
five-minute ring, or with a
half-minute signal every other
minute for all of ten minutes.
Big Ben is made in La Salle,
Illinois, U.S.A., by Westclox. His
price is 12/6, postage 1/- extra. If
you cannot find him in your town,
send a money order to the makers’
Australian office, Westclox, 63 Pitt
Street, Sydney. They will have
one mailed to you by the nearest
jeweller.
r_-
A HOME FOR
MELBOURNE GUESTS.
¥
Corner Flinders Street
and Spencer Street
MELBOURNE.
Sir Charles Hotham Hotel
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made ; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage : with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years' experience: the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
FOyWTPEN
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London. W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney
&
Prizes Value £4OOO in the
8-Hour Art Union & Sports
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
DRAWN OCTOBER 31, 1914.
Ist Prize, value £B5O. 2utl Prize, value £4OO.
3rd Prize, value £3OO. And 397 other Valuable
Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. 0. ('. Morrison,
Balmain. Svdnev, N.S.W., for the modest outlay of ONE
SHILLING.
GET A TICKET & HAVE A CHANCE l OR 1014.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper un November o.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list
of the results will be posted. Tickets may be had troin
Agents in all towns, or direct, from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Iraties Hall, Sydney.
The Inky Way.
What a multitude of small advertisers
have been overwhelmed by the roaring cat-
aract of war! The most persistent of them
bob up now and again in brief paragraphs ;
but their fitful appearances only suggest
the corpse that has been insufficiently
weighted. It is a cheerless time for the
advertising pug. parson or actress; also for
the distinguished leather-merchant who has
just returned from a world-tour full of
“impressions” which lie wants to give to
the suburbs. He couldn’t get a reporter to
come and listen to him if he had returned
from the gate of Sheol with burns on his
ear contracted whilst listening to the howls
at the red-hot keyhole.
Jewish journalism in London has just
evolved a new evening paper—the Jewish
Evening News. It is mostly printed in
Yiddish, the mongrel cosmopolitan dialect
almost entirely spoken in Whitechapel,
where Jews from every land under Heaven
congregate in slums and live upon each
other and an occasional Gentile by way of
variety. There arc now four dailies printed
and published in Whitechapel, the other
three being the Jewish Journal. the
Jewish Times and the Jewish Daily
Express. The foreign Jewish revolutionary
groups in Whitechapel have a Weekly organ
of their own called The Workers’ Friend.
It boldly describes itself as an '“anarchist
communal journal.” All these journals
make a good display of advertising. Every
Jewish trader instinctively knows the
value of advertising, though the Gentile
sometimes takes a considerable period to
realise it. Whitechapel is still the typical
Jewish quarter of London. The Hebrews
have overgrown it and ousted the Gentiles
from all the adjacent districts. Stennev,
Limehouse, Hackney. Dalston. Tottenham
and other East End suburbs are preponder-
antly Jewish in their population.
Israel is also acquiring a strong foothold in
the AN est End. Soho, which is supposed
to be a characteristically French and'Ger-
man quarter, is now largely invaded by Eus-
siap Jews. The London Jews have not only
their own newspapers but also their own
theatres. Shakspeare in Yiddish is said to
be first favorite.
THE WAIL OF GENERAL NEWS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
General News demands a hearing on account of
his military rank. It appears to be his only chance
of attracting notice.
Hey, d’you hear me banging and knocking?
This gross neglect of my call is shocking ;
I am the wide world’s great commander,
Blokes like Xerxes and Alexander
I can easily lose.
1 can talk with a score of voices ;
Every journalist’s heart rejoices
In me and my crossheads, pars and verses ;
I can arouse sub-editor’s curses,
I am General News.
General Huerta’s come to Bristol;
•Didn’t you hear his steamboat whistle?
Ten men killed by a falling girder ;
Sydney horrid Arbororrible murder—
What is your silence for?
Ain’t there space for a human story,
All blood and blubber and details gory?
Holman’s out for a grand exposure
Of the wig-topped Johnny who puts the closure —•
What? Don’t want nothing but war?
Before your stranglehold leaves me quiet
Will you take the tale of a Iving-street riot?
I've found the ticks in the snow-white fleeces
Of the saints who slaved for the Boorabil leases;
I’ve a tiptop column from Hughes ;
I’ve something hot for the first edition
That was on the grill of the Meat Commission ;
Your frigid glances annoy and hurt me;
What have 1 done that you should desert me,
Your obi friend, General News ?
Will a spicy story of Bigbug’s daughter
Not quench your thirst for a wholesale slaughter?
I can give you blood where the wheels are whir-
ring,
And the satisfied, big machines are purring
Above the body they tore.
I bring you burglary, fraud and arson,
Or a d.c. case with a co-re. parson,
Or a Bondi shark with a girl in his middle- —-
But they’re no damn good, for the tune you
fiddle
Is war, and nothing but war.
rr.s.w.
KHYBIL MIR.
EXIT THE SUFFRAGETTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An English girl, 26 years of age, of good family,
has been arrested at Dijon. She was disguised as an
aviation officer, and her hair was cut. She wept bitterly
when her disguise was discovered, and said she
wanted to go to the front. She was returned to
England.— Cable.
No more I set the pillar-box on fire,
And burn the poor remittance of the poor ;
No more T blow up the cathedral spire,
Nor crush the wattle bean upon the floor;
No more the Raphael and Corregio
Or other pictures do I tear and slash,
For suffragism is dead and gone below.
I've done my dash.
No more I call upon the Government
With gifts of sulphuretted hydrogen;
No more in Pentonville shall I be pent
A prisoner to those brutal Ruffians, men.
Real war has come to fright the sham away,
No more by “Votes for Women” are we led;
I see starvation loom and hear us pray:
“Let us be fed.”
Though we are beaten out as suffragettes,
And no man listens now unto our yells,
Limelight we lust for, and as aviettes
We now are pinched and prisoned in the cells.
We cut our hair, but jealous villain man
Will not in death give us equality.
He thinks war has some virtue, Tieath its ban,
And bids it be.
We tore the world up by the roots to show
That we must have a husband or a vote,
And all tlie men did was to bid us grow
To sensibility, and not to dote.
lie’s glad of war because it wiped us out,
And brought him hack his sex supremacy.
Tie’ll have his kingdom new after the rout,
And slaves we’ll be.
x.s.w.
VIDA PANKHURST.


THe BEST HOUSE for all
SHOOTING REQUISITES
B.S.A. Rifle, Showinp Silencer attached.
B.S.A. MINIATURE RIFLE, No. 2 MODEL,
22 calibre, bolt action, self-cocking, 24in. round steel barrel;
length over all 41 in. ; weight, about . r >4lb.: screw adjusting
rear sight to 200 yards, barleycorn front sight, walnut stock. £l/12/6
Postage on one Hifln. 2/3 N.S.W. ; 4/2 Inter-State.
B.S.A. MINIATURE WAR OFFICE RIFLE, No. 3 MODEL, same
style as No. 2 Model, but improved, and fitted with target sights.
Delivered £2/15/-
B.S.A. MINIATURE WAR OFFICE REPEATING RIFLE, 22-
calibre; same description as No. 3 Model. Delivered.. £3/5/-
All Kinds of
GUN and
RIFLE
REPAIRS
Executed.
THE MAXIM SILENCER, for attaching to rifles. Improves
your marksmanship. Ensures noiseless shooting. The
marvel of the shooting world.
Silencer for 22-cal. rifles £l/5/-
Silencer for all other calibre rifles £2/2/6
Postage on one Silencer, N.S.W., 9d. ; Inter-State, 1/2.
Wedging Silencer on round barrel rifle 7/6 extra
Screwing Silencer on octagon barrel 12/6 extra
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition, etc.
Post Free Anywhere.
MICK. SIMMONS LTD.
Head Depot: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
City Sports Depots 119 King Street,
and at 105*7 Hunter Street, Newcastle.
/a
is
MAUSER CARBINE AND PISTOL COMBINED; 10-shot,
automatic self-feeding, self-ejecting, sighted to 1000 yards.
Delivered £6/10/-
“THE SAVAGE” Repeating Hammer-
less Rifle, 22-calibre rim fire, 24in. octagon
barrel, slide action, demountable, pistol grip,
handles short, long, or long rifle cartridges; is loaded with a
clip similar to the Military Rifle, two clips with each rifle,
each clip holds 7 cartridges; weight about 5411). Delivered..
Extra Clips, 1/(5 each.
£3
■
REMINGTON RIFLES,
No. o Model, 22-calibre R.F.
20in. round blued steel barrel.
weight lUlb 16/0
With ladder rear sights, 20/-
Postaße—l/6 N.S.W.;
2/8 Inter-State.
STEVENS’ MARKSMAN RIFLE,
22-cal. R.F., round barrel. 20in. chambered for long
rifle cartridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut
stock, open front and rear sights, weight, 41b., 18/fl
Postage—N.S.W. 1/9 ; Inter-State 3/2.
The World is its Kingdom
L.ScC. HARDTMUTH’S -
KOHINOOR
//?,
Z'/'ii'.WV
PENCIL
From all parts of the World come the materials
\Vith which the “ Koh-i-noor ” is composed ;
to all parts of the World goes the completed
pencil—perfected by patent processes, match-
less skill and 125 years’ experience in pencil
manufacture. Made in 17 degrees and Copying.
Of Stationers, &c., everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, Eng.
Australia : 350, George St., Sydney. Write for List.
Dinneford’s
Magnesia
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“ DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing .
THE PERMANENT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED,
TRUSTEE COMPANY
17 O’Connell St.
SYDNEY.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Ere., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full Particulars on Application.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
a
[2
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may he secured separately by the day from os.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OK NATURE AND IDDUST RATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1013 edition, 2s Gd posted- Merrik
England, 6d. lluw to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
TIN KS SILENT FIUKND, Is Gd. NkD DONNELLY’S ART
ok Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings. Is.
llow to Danck, Is, post. llow to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Fi.anuk.rs, a rare hook by De Koe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Caro Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola's,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiik
Horsk, is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Rkcitkr, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
tub Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Gd posted. Riddlk ok tiik.
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational I’rk.ss Rk.krints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. l/G.
Joys ok Like, Is Gd. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyhook, J/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Advent ures ok a Kurt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet’, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert. Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.. is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is Gd. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science ok Like
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Gi:iDK.(simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer's Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become CJuick at Figures, Is Id.
Locality, lid. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. San now’s Book ok Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
ok Paris, Is Gd. History ok the Hod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, lls. Practical Gas and
On. Eng. Handbook, ss. N'ot Guilty (Blai.cn-
fm-ct). 9d The Art ok Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is Gd.
God and My Neigh dor. Gd. Britain kop. the
British, Gd. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train kor all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases ok Horses,
’s 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
»nd Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler s Human Science,
10s Gd. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is Gd.
9
m
%
m
l
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Panes.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand ouestions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANA' address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. -ms
GI PS Y FORTUNE TELLING GAUDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Skcrkts and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Iluies for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River. 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easj-, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s' 6d.
Sulk Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted, Cabikkt Makers' Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Like of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Othep. Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d Wannax s Engine Driver's Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers ok Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron ok Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
oth rs. all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee's Priceless
PvEcipks. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Like in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. PJT’Established 25 Tears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED - ELSEWHERE SEN I-
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, I 3
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. l)i:. Milford 8 Mid-
wipe’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s M.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions ok tiik
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Ssecret
History Court op England, Is 3d post. Covers
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is '-a-
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to mi
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Y_kst Pockp-T
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, -s <>dp
INGERSOLLS WORKS, Bd, 28. HOW TO READ IIEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk s Advice to a
Wipe, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Kong
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post. tree.
Bknnarp. Macfaddbn's W orks, all at os pos -
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers a«»Sv6a*
Boilers' Assistant, Is 3d. The Mifes Ha. ,
Is 2d posted. Fruits ok Philosophy. Is post- j ' ND
Recitations and Readings, Is*.. Nervousness ■
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Wbbsters Large UN
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600Ulus.,
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pa ‘
guineas). Bootmaking and ls
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. M ®9* K ®
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 P*-® ’ CI ,


THE DANGER
OF A COLD.
There’s danger in a cold.
The cold you get may be a timely
warning of something more dangerous
to follow.
Some people catch cold easily, no
sooner one cold cured than they have
another one. That’s dangerous.
A cold lowers the vitality and weakens
the whole body. It starts with watery
eyes—sore-all-over feeling, and per-
haps runs into influenza, bronchitis
or pneumonia. So prepare for trouble
before it troubles you.
A bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery is a safeguard against such
ills.
In the home where it is always found
coughs and colds do not obtrude.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is a
preventive as well as a remedy. A
dose taken before exposure to in-
clement weather fortifies the system.
A dose after exposure prevents the
danger of a chill.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is a
most reliable remedy to check a cough
or cold.
Also Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is
a most excellent preventive of just
such ills, and is suitable for man.
woman and child at any season and
at any place.
Do not wait until you are in a hurry
for a bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery, but by having it ready
defeat these troubles of mankind be-
fore they have you in their grip.
The Safeguard of the Home
A few doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery taken when a cold is coming on is
generally all that is needed to soothe the fever and correct the bodily discomfort
of a severe cold. It is well to continue taking New Discovery for a day or
two even after the attack seems averted, for its soothing influence on the mucous
membrane renders it less liable to a second attack.
Our friends are our best advertisement, for it is they who have tried Dr. Shel-
don’s New Discovery who know its merits. Noted artists, singers and promi-
nent citizens from all over Australasia have testified to the value of this famous
remedy. If you have not tried Dr. Sheldon's New Discovery you cannot do
better than join the throng, many thousands strong, who habitually protect them-
selves from winter's ills by using Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery.
PRICE, 1/6 and 3/-
D?Sheldons|
New Discovery
OOGHS
AND
OLDS
The Cheese with the
T aste
And what is more to the point—the Cheese with the taste you will
like. Think what it means to be able to buy Cheese that is quite
fresh a week or more after you have opened it.
“REX” LUNCHEON CHEESE
————- ■ —***^^™w——w—t—mh>—
“Keeps” well. We have never known it to fail. It is of piquant
flavor, and contains all the valuable properties of perfectly-matured
Full Cream Cheese.
Connoisseurs prefer “Rex” Luncheon Cheese. Eat a little after
each meal, as an aid to digestion.
Of all Grocers, in Tins and Screw-top Jars .
OTHER “REX” BRAND CANNED
DELICACIES—
Ham Pate, Jib. tins,
Veal and Tongue Pate, Jib. tins,
Pork Brawn, 111), tins,
Pork Sausages, lib. tins,
Pork and Beans, ljlb. tins,
Pigs Feet in Jelly, lib. tins,
Lunch Tongues in Jelly, lib. tins,
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese in decorated
tins and porcelain jars,
and
“Rex” Brand Lard, for cooking pur-
poses, in lib. prints.
“REX” FRESH SHALE GOODS. (Pro-
curable at all Grocers and Small
Goods Shops and Carts in Brisbane
and District and Bendigo and District
only.)
Saveloys,
Strasburg Sausage,
Veal German Sausage,
White Puddings,
Black Puddings.
Pork Sausages,
Frankfurt Sausages.
Fog'g'itt, Jones (&L Co. Ltd.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products,
Curers of ‘‘Rex” Hams and Bacons,
Makers of “Rex” Small Goods.
w*
M
m
PUQE fOQP
ms
&
t v
»///
JonC^
t>
£3^
A Lay of Bitter Forgetfulness.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
C 4 OLD, pale and salt the mermaid sat
] Some fathoms deep in Neutral Bay,
Amelia had a yard of hat
And eighteen hairs blown quite astray,
V ship was anchored at Cremorne —
The time was after half-past four,
The happy sun since early morn
Had bathed in gold the sea and shore.
By these things you will surely know
That matters were progressing well;
We watched the small waves come and go
And knew their liquid tongues could tell
Nothing of what they chanced to hear
What time they kissed Amelia’s shoe,
Though someone called her very dear
And mentioned that her eyes were blue.
We ate our sandwiches with zeal,
We talked for many hours of me
l’util 1 think she came to feel
That earth and air and sun and sea
Were but the pleasant frame to hold
A picture, painted large and fair,
Of one whose fragrant pipe-smoke rolled
Above the brightness of her hair.
I fancy that she loved me much —
1 know her lips were good to taste.
There was a magic in her touch
And gladness in her yielding waist.
And when soft laughter stirred her throat
The happy flakes of mellow sound
Fell like the silver set afloat
When somebody has cashed a pound.
Beauty and sorrow hand in hand
Have walked the world for many years,
Like blossoms swathed in desert sand
Joy salts its sweets in brine of tears.
And though these figures may he mixed
The course of love, as all men know,
Is not exactly bound, or fixed
Or taught delectably to flow.
What should have happened is quite plain.
Just as the day began to fade
We might have wandered home again,
A cheerful man and blissful maid ;
We should have parted at a gate,
Pressed hands in some suburban street,
And settled down in peace to wait
Love’s next occasion ripe and sweet.
But, wearied with our day of bliss,
We sat and yawned beside the sea
I util we saw the white moon kiss
The clear, dark forehead of a tree.
We had not any more to say,
For I had told her all I knew;
And so the brown hours passed away
And gladness made one dream of two.
The warm touch of her satin hand
Had made me sleepy, I suppose.
An elfin breeze rny temples fanned,
I kissed her lips and called her “Rose.”
Her lifted chin, her bosom’s start.
1 he error of that word made plain ;
1 pressed her close against my heart
And breathed a sigh and murmured
Jane.
She tore her beauty from my grasp.
She stood erect with eyes of flame;
J iio situation made me gasp—
“ u* ( recollect her name
Ahee.” I cried, and stretched my arms
lake some dull sinner screeching prayer
Indignantly she shook her charms '
aihi tilted high her nose in air.
°'b Plague of wilted memory
t 1 ii i 0 ! 1 ® blessed word forgot!
1 called her “May” and “Margery”
everything that she was not.
' <ai,® Ched , Iny , soul with her disdain.
She drew her skirts athwart the dark,
0, ,0 sentence all her scorn made plain—
•nicy, farewell!’ was her remark.
I wv>e indignant at that word.
M.v name is Moses. Miss.” I cried
A t '7.i ai, £ h , her , bosom stirred
She nn * 10 beys tone of my pride.
The * a way. my dream was o’er,
clear through ono i )ale cloud winked
1 T«S m,Vself from dull shore
0 waken memory with beer.
Vs.w.
CURSE O' MOSES.
Pumpstuffer’s Patriotic Poem.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
P ‘ ’ T - 1' I" ER was a good fellow and
hard-working journalist.
((f ~i a bad no Elusions about the bulk
wh(. n ' n -' <ay work - But, now and again,
ovent ? m T d , l . y movo(1 by some unusual
J ‘ aid 118 intellectual ears back and
enough to 'hr-ivfUv which b .f. considered good
signature ci». 5 carry his full-magazine
That flatminl u Ce B,ld & e Pumpstuffer.
was a n"? 0 !'; whenever displayed,
his work enn.r ? nmpstuffer considered
h, ‘ cherished was rarely seen, for
fading world hopes , that one day the
fan that the p°, lld get educated up to the
quality all Ihe i label stood for
goods could lie and tbat tbe intellectual
cautious "s i h.f T 1 ° n ' , So h< ‘ was very
When the Tin W . h ? employed it.
*i’e first contimren> nan war broke out and
puffer was a' ,£ n was enrolled. Pump-
*low of patriotism lll r Ved , and sat down in a
countrymen on tn™ cbeer bls departing
occasion and when'l Ctory ’ , Jt was a great
ho 'irs of fierce mPi h? u at back ’ after three
read the following r night t brain hm ’ry. and
risen to it nobly f-i lnes ’ he felt that he had
r<wwl u farewell.
Bie'Tr’oopwVafth bUgleS Cal 1!
Though 0 n a t 1 thc quay!
} ? a foreign field you fall,
For Z ! tho victory !
The Pftn ?° eS to fight our foes
Go! plav rh S i? al ™ must gain -
And we’ll t™ r part y °u chose,
e U look after Jane.
Anl'mav w bef ° r ° you sail -
When yo„' her br, ght eyes shine
P «n-flushed a "wjth heerin f b> the rail.
Don’t eri,J' " Uh Kood ' re<l 'vice!
Our tears we C ' a '' l! Her p’ s luck to all!
And I*X 6 can t restrain !
Weil ail r f m f nber ’ if you fall,
ell all look after Jane!
(Jane, of course, symbolised the girl who
had to he left behind.)
)\ hen the proud author had read it over
twice, he sighed with pleasure and signed, in
a hrm, round hand—“ Clarence Budge Pump-
stuner. ’ Then, about an hour before the
hrst bird was due to chirp, he blew out the
expiring lamp and went softly and reverently
to bed. lie knew in his own heart that
the instant literary judges read those verses
they would declare very impressively that he
was a new force in literature. As for the
soldiers and their relations, he could see them
weeping tears of joy. I’umpstuffer recog-
nised that their literary judgment probably
wouldn t be worth much ; but he was pre-
pared to accept their tears and cheers as
evidence of the strong heart-interest and
simple power of his lines. Lying prostrate
in his dark bed, he stood oil from himself in
spirit and admitted that war wasn’t alto-
gether an evil if it stirred writers to produce
such work. Then he went to sleep and
wondered in his half-dreams how it would
strike his editor.
Next morning he dropped his masterpiece
on the editor’s desk and went thoughtfully
away to start his routine work. He fully
expected a call, and presently it came. “Edi-
tor would like to see you, Mr. Puinpstuffer,”
said the copy boy, and Pumpstuffer went out
with a thrill of modest pride to receive his
laurels. As he had expected, the found the
Editor with his copy in front of him.
“About these verses, Pumpstuffer,” said
the Editor, and pulled doubtfully at his
shaven chin.
Pumpstuffer noted his mournful indecision
and felt suddenly tired.
“I like them,” said the Editor, with sud-
den and encouraging emphasis. “I think
they’re fine —very fine indeed ! But—
well, there’s that censorship to be considered.
You see we’re not allowed to say that any-
one's going away.” lie turned appealingly
to the revived poet. “Do you think you
could revise them and make them non-com-
mittal while preserving the fine martial
spirit? I’d like to print them as they are,
but it can’t be done, worse luck !”
Pumpstuffer took his manuscript and
looked at it doubtfully. “I’m not allowed to
make any reference to a send-off, and yet it’s
a send-off verse?”
“That’s about the size of it,” sighed the
Editor.
“Oh, well —I’ll have a go at it.”
“Yes, do! And let me have it back as
soon as you can. I wouldn’t like to miss a
good thing like that.”
Pumpstuffer looked thankfully over his
shoulder as he went out. “Thank you, Mr.
Slashly. I’m glad you liked it.”
“It’s a fine thing,” repeated the Editor,
and fell to work again.
Now, it is a hard and painful job to un-
pick and destroy and rebuild a poem you have
made with loving labor. Lines and phrases
you have polished and set with care cry out
for quarter, and the pen hovers undecidedly
above them. Then, too, the mind, possibly
owing to the fierce concentration which is
always necessary if work above the average
is to be produced, refuses to see the master-
piece in any other shape or form. After half
an hour’s ineffectual struggling, Pumpstuffer
turned his cherished poem over to a trusted
colleague called Stewpont, with an appeal to
do the best he could with it. Stewpont, a
man of prompt action, promised to do his
best, and, as a preliminary, stoked up his
desk pipe. Pumpstuffer went away to his
own lair and an hour or so afterwards this
mangled corpse was laid before him :
THREE CHEERS!
Fall in, you coves! The bugles call!
Fall in and march with me!
Though some day you must fight and fall,
You’ll smash them — one! two! three!!
But he who goes and never blows
Some brighter gilt will gain !
Buck in and give them all the joes
While we look after Jane!
(Memo. —“Jane” is a rotten name. Why
not choose something else?)
Come on, you boys! Have one with me,
And may her bright eyes shine
When you no more shall parted be!
Let’s drink her health in wine!
Don’t cringe or crawl! Here’s luck to all,
And fill ’em up again!
You answer now the bugle’s call 1
We’ll all look after Jane!
Pumpstuffer went over the verses carefully
and then remarked, in a sad, stricken way,
“The only lines of mine that seem to have
survived are: ‘And may her bright eyes
shine’ and ‘Don’t cringe or crawl! Here’s
luck to all.’ ”
Stewpont removed his pipe from his lips
and nodded judicially. “Those were too good
to take out,” he remarked.
Pumpstuffer started, but recovered himself
with an effort and ran a finger down th»*
revised first line. “Er— this line now.
‘Buck in and give them all the joes.’ I don’t
care much for that, old man. Don’t you
think my line could have stood? And then
what’s wrong with ‘Our tears we can’t re-
strain’? I see you’ve got, ‘And fill ’em up
again.’ ”
“Yours is a better line,” admitted Stew-
pont. “Yours is a fine, dignified line, but I
don’t see how it is going to pass the censor.
It you cry over troops, you must be crying
because they’re going away. Then I think
it’s too much like an old woman.”
“But it’s a different thing in verse, old
chap.”
“I don’t see that it is. What’s a man want
to talk about snivelling for when he doesn’t
mean it? No, cut that out altogether.
Don’t have it on your mind !”
“All the same, I think we might have
risked that line!”
“Right you are! Put it in and see how it
goes.”
Pumpstuffer put the two sheets together
and read slowly aloud —-
“ ‘But he who goes and never blow T s’—
< Sounds d —n cheap, that!)
‘But he who goes and never blows
Our tears we can’t restrain.’ (Doesn’t con-
nect at all!)
‘Go ! play the hero’s part you chose,
And we’ll look after Jane!’
“Oh, that won’t do at all!”
“Sounds rotten!” commented Stewpont.
“That line about playing the hero’s part has
got to come out.”
“Why?”
(Continued on next page.)


ccidents
at Homes at Work.
\ CCIDENTS will happen even in
the best-regulated families.
Healthy youngsters seem to be
always “in the wars”; housework
abounds with mishaps for busy wives
and harassed mothers; and the breao-
/ winner often returns from work with a
more or less serious injury. Just what
every home needs is Zam-Buk. A pot and
a bandage on a handy shelf, where they are
handy for instant use, save untold pain, time
and money.
When the little one runs in from his play with a wry face and smarting,
dirt-filled scrape on his knee, simply wash the part and smear with Zam-
ISuk. When father cuts or scrapes his hand, the handy pot of Zam-Buk
again meets the emergency, and the housewife or mother continually finds
it a real friend in need for the burns she receives while cooking, the scalds
of a washing-day, or the knocks and bruises ot dusting.
Children like Zam-Buk because it is cooling, soothing and pleasant.
Their elders value it still more highly because it is also antiseptic and a
powerful germicide, preventing poisoning, festering and disease; because it
is a natural skin-repairer, growing new tissue in Nature’s way; and because
it is good for the tenderest skin. Daily mishaps make Zam-Buk a daily
need, therefore "keep Zam-Buk handy” is a sound home motto.
r
I
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK
CUTS, BRUISES anti SORES.
Mr. J. Turnbull, of 2!) Shernel
Street, Waterloo, Sydney, says : “I
am a carpenter by occupation, and
am constantly knocking- my hands about.
Cement and lime get into the cuts and sores,
causing them to tester, and, if neglected,
would necessitate my leaving off work.
Prompt application of Zam-Buk, however,
gives instant relief. My children, have also
found Zam-Buk invaluable for burns, cuts,
bruises and chicken-pox sores, allaying
the irritation and inflammation- of the
latter complaint in a very short time.”
A MOTHER’S PRAISE.
Mrs. Jones, who resides at Albert
Park, Hartley District, Lithgow,
N.S.W.i says : “Zam-Buk is the ever
ready healer in my home for cuts, burns,
bruises, scalds, sores, chafed hands and
other troubles, and I have found nothing
to equal it. I have tried many other so-called
healers from time to time, but found none
to compare with Zam-Buk. No mother
should be without a pot handy in the home
for use on the children, as they are always
hurting themselves one way and another,
and Zam-Buk comes in very useful.”
Zam-Buk is excellent for eczema, ulcers, ringworm, nad legs, rashes, eruptions,
pimples, sores, cuts,
burns, bruises, scalds,
and other skin injuries.
Of all chemists & stores
at 16 and 3/6 per pot
(3,6 holds nearly four
times the 1 6), or from
C. E. Fulford (Aus.) Ltd.,
39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Buk
TBEwnn^ 1
HANDY?
A Remarkable Remedy.
Few medicines have met with more favor or accomplished more good than
Chamberlain's Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy.
It has relieved more pain and suffering and saved the lives of more people
than any other preparation in use. One or two doses of it is enough to relieve
an ordinary attack of colic or diarrhoea. It has been used in many epidemicsof
dysentery with perfect success.
Itrelieves bowel complaints in their most severe forms and is especially valu-
able for diarrhoea and summer complaint in children.
A
SO
■' • ii
>-
S2 1 O
$/A
HxAHtiy'
ps«!^t
“ My Best
Advertisement
Isa mother who has once used Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy for she makes
a point of telling other mothers about it, who in turn pass the news on. It
is this alone that has made Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy a household word
throughout the world. Just ask some mother in your community what she
thinks of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy--she will tell yon. that it enables
her to get her children through the winter without coughs, colds or croup,
and that at the first approach of a cold she herself takes
COUGH REMEEBf
She will tell you tliatit is as thoroughly reliable for theyoungest child as the
oldest member of the family. You can give it to the baby, the children go-
ing to school, or take it yourself, always with the same result— a quick cure.
OjoWCi/ JtUaJUJL
"Sounds as if lie had got an actor’s job in
some crook show!”
“I wouldn’t take it that way,” protested
the original author.
"I would !” retorted his frank reviser.
“But hero’s parts are played in real life,
you know,”
“Yes, hut that line’s too melodramatic, any-
how.”
Pumpstuffer groaned. “Perhaps it would
save time if we got somebedy else on the job.
You and 1 have done our best, but we don’t
seem lo he able to hit the happy medium.
Let’s get Strimor on to it —he may be able
to fix it.”
“Good idea,” said Stewpont very heartily,
and turned back to his work.
Pumpstuffer rose wearily and bore the
mangled corpse to Strimer, who listened sym-
pathetically and said he’d try to fix it. He
added that it would he an interesting experi-
ment, and reached for his pipe—an enormous
thing with a long stem like a 13.5 turret gun.
As Pumpstuffer turned to go he saw him glar-
ing ferociously at the poem through smoke
and flame. He bore some awful resemblance
to a battleship in action. An hour of sus-
pense and doubt dragged by before the griev-
ously wounded thing came home. This was
it: —
DORIS, DEAR.
Don’t worry, boys, though bugles blare!
Fall in! Fall in with me!
For ev’ry man must do his share,
Whether on land or sea.
Dive us no praise, but simply raise
A loud and manly chorus,
And toll us that, on darksome days,
You’ll all look after Doris.
Now let us drink ! One glass! No more
For soldiers now are we.
We have to guard this lovely shore.
And sober we must be.
Don’t cringe or crawl! Here’s luck to all!
Now promise all in chorus,
That though the very heavens fall,
You'll nil loot: after Doris!
After muling it, Pumpstuffer felt too
worked up to go and interview Strimer in
person. But he took a small slip of paper
and wrote: “Dear Strimer, —Who is Doris?”
Then he called a hoy and sent him upstairs
with it. The hoy returned in short order
with a brief endorsement on the original note.
It ran: “Doris is Jane. What do yon leant
to l'now for?”
Pumpstuffer felt that his baby had slipped
away from him and that the funeral was over.
He rose and padded along to the Editor's
room.
“Oh, good!” said his genial chief, and,
taking the slip of paper, read it attentively,
It was a minute or so before he looked up.
“This is another poem, eh?”
“No. sir; that’s the same poem altered.”
The Editor hurriedly referred to the manu-
script and nodded approvingly. “Ye-es, I see.
Um —you’ve worked over it a good deal!
Let’s see now! Ye-es, you've improved it
out of sight!”
Pumpstuffer restrained himself while the
Editor added a comma or two. A boy
entered and delivered a slip of paper, which
the Editor had no sooner read than he lay
hack in his chair and swore. “Well, what
do you think of this? ‘Yon are requested
not to publish any leaders, special articles
or poems relating to the departure of
troops.’ Now. what's the good of trying to
run a newspaper at all?”
Pumpstuffer only sighed gratefully, “That
finishes it, then?”
“I’m afraid it does,” said the Editor, and
handed back the verses, adding graciously
as he did so, “And I want them worse than
ever since you revised them.” Pumpstuffer
seemed overwhelmed with gratitude or some-
thing.
When the once proud author got hack to
his room, he stood for a while looking out
of the window. Just over the way was a
grocer’s shoo, and inside he could see the
dim. busy grocers working away at their
plain job, unhampered by any censor. He
felt suddenly envious and wondered why he
had not been horn a grocer. Then his wan-
dering eye lighted on a gilded advertising
sign. and. with a heart full of hope and a
pen full of ink. he sat down and slashed the
masterpiece till it read this way:—
LISTEN TO .UK, DORIS!
Don’t worry, dear, if bills are large!
You’ve but yourself to please.
•loues, Limited, don’t overcharge,
And keep such lovely teas.
Write straight away for lists to-day,
And note their famed low prices ;
ll‘s worth your while to step our way
In this financial crisis.
Gooffs are delivered twice a day!
Homes waited on for orders!
Slav, prudent housewife! Pritheee, Stay!
Have you exacting boarders?
Then here's your chance! At our list glance!
Tell sisters, aunts and mothers!
And lo our store you'll surely dance.
We’re cheaper than all others!
Come on, you girls! For Tramper’s Tea
We’ll raise a joyful chorus!
It is the best all folks agree!
Just try a packet, Doris!
When the eminent Pumpstuffer actually
asked Jones to accept the splendid poem as a
slight mark of esteem, the delighted grocer
nearly wept into the sugar bin. He pro-
tested that he couldn’t accept if for nothing
—really! He would like to give Mr. Pump-
stuffer something in exchange—some little,
useful present. Come on now, what would
he like?
Pumpstuffer smiled wanly and ran a specu-
lative eye along the shelves. The beaming
grocer leant on the counter and described
two acute angles with his bare elbows.
“A pound of tea would he useful,” mut-
tered Pumpstuffer. He turned to Jones:
"How about a pound of Tramper’s tea?”
The grocer straightened up and made a
regal sign to a hovering assistant. “Joe!
put up a tivo- pound packet o’ Tramper’s
best f’r this gennulmun !” Then he took
up the noem reverently and said, very im-
pressively: “Mr Pumpstuffer, I’ll ’ave this
’ere printed on every bag we send out of th’
shop. An’, sir, I mus’ say this —-1 say it’s
a great complerment f'r th’ likes o’ you ter
write a thing like this ’ere f’r th’ likes o’
me. I ’predate it, Mr. Pumpstuffer, an",
any time you feel like throwin’ orf some-
thin’ else in th’ same line, I’ll be proud ter
give you a couple er pounds o’ tea for it. I
sez that, if a poem like that, wrote by a
gennulmun as unnerstands poemisin’, ain’t
worth a couple o’ pounds o' tea. it ain’t
worth nothin'!’'
“Two poun’ Tramper’s,” said Joe at his
elbow, and slid along a small brown paper
packet,
"Your lea. sir,’’ said Jones respectfully.
l’limpstuffer bowed and took it. "Thank
you, Mr. Jones.”
“Don’t menshun it.” said the grocer in
his grandest manner. “An’, Mr. Pump-
stufler, nox’ time, if you can manage it. I’d
like somethin’ on Sunset Cheesi —that’s a
line that always wants pushin’. An’, sir,
if cheese jis ’ardor ter poemise on than tea,
1 don’t min’ chuckin’ in a tin o’ ’sparagus or
something tasty like that.”
KODAK.
When Black Maria Passes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T lIENEYER Black Maria goes rum-
\ \ l)ling past my door
I wonder what her burden is being
lumbered for —
For bigamy, or murder, or common burg-
la ree—
Ah. many are the pictures that strangely
come to me!
I try to guess what broken or badly-twisted
code
lias given Black Maria her queer, unenvied
load.
Has someone grabbed the shadow of some
alluring chance,
And missed the solid substance of golden
(Circumstance?
Has someone gone retrieving, a fraction of
the whole.
The things some high Barabbas by legal
statute stole?
Has someone left a vixen, to wander fancy-
free,
Until he found his soul-mate —his true
affinitee?
Has someone drowned his sorrows in cheap,
prosaic ale?
(How many beer-soaked worries have dried
themselves in gaol!)
lias someone done the drowning within the
nearest pub,
Instead of drinking gladness at some expen-
sive club?
Has someone used his talents in making
“brummy” quids,
Instead of rightly robbing the widow and her
kids?
Instead of elongating his weekly rental
sheet,
By building rows of hovels in Little Crooked-
street ?
Has someone sinned uprightly, and bravely
borne the blame,
Instead of growing paunchy upon the fruits
of shame?
Is some unvaunted hero to deck the gallows-
tree,
For doing what we’d all do were we as brave
as he?
Has someone proved our ethics but things
of hollow sham —
Not worth Belshazzar’s blessing, nor Mephis-
topheles’ damn?
And does he ride serenely in yonder rumb-
ling car —
An incarnated protest against the Things
That Arc?
II as someone dared to question our laws of
Right and Wrong—
Flung mud upon our idols, and biffed them
good and strong?
Has someone heaped derision on all we have
and hold.
Until Maria brought him within the sacred
fold ?
Has some stern agitator, undaunted and
uncouth,
Proclaimed with fierce defiance the naked,
bitter truth?
The truth no man dare utter lest he should
lumbered be —
Ah, solemn Black Maria, you cut no ice
with me!
Is someone riding gaily behind the bolted
door;
Aye, riding as lie’s ridden a hundred times
before
Is someone being carried, with fan tods in
his brain? —
And who'll be carried tliusl.v a hundred times
again !
A queer hotch-potch of black sheep! What
whisky-sodden hags!
What rotters and what wasters! What lost-
soul’d scallywags!
What rakings of the by-wavs! What scum
of thripp’ny bars !
And yet, mayhap, their causes ride by in
motor-cars!
The people on the pavement behold the sight,
and grin—
They haven’t been detected red-handed in
their sin!
But always do I wonder how many folk
alert,
Would ride in Black Maria if each got lus
desert?
llow many close-lipp’d passers (and what if
it be so !)
Conjure front this black lady some shame
of long ago? , . ...
How many at my elbow, now flushed with
youthful pride,
Will’ some day in the future ride as these
gaol-birds ride?
The jehu drives benignly, blue-clad and
dignified; , ,
Ilis features give no token of what is stowed
inside. •, ... . ..
But tvhen the wheels go grinding along the
prison road
A strange compassion fills me tor Black
Maria’s load !
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


WESTINGHOUSE
(MORSE)
CHAIN DRIVES.
sai
mm
§§§:■«
Übww*, <*- ?
I 'f’liy *
c
• *s*2
" . * v,-. 23taj»*v
The resistance due to the sliding
friction at the joint, inseparable
from chains of the solid joint pin
type, is eliminated, and the fullest
advantage is taken of the power
developed by the Motor by
utilising the patent
ROCKER JOINT.
98 per cent. Efficiency.
Made in units from £ to 1000 h.p.
Full Particulars from
™,,
sia
•»
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents—Philips & Pike, Wellington.
[KIM K tKtIMJ Ml Mfiltw W PKI
The Record of the
Stirling Boiler
SHOWS—
HIGHEST evaporation per sq. ft. of heating surface.
HIGHEST efficiency.
LOWEST coal costs. LOWEST maintenance costs.
40 Municipal undertakings use STIRLING BOILERS. Average
tube renewals *295 tubes per boiler per annum. Average
efficiency of 17 boiler tests in electricity stations was 79 %•
REPEAT ORDERS RECEIVED FROM 220 SATISFIED USERS.
The Austral Engineering Supply Go.
LIMITED,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney-
gold:
331
DRILLING CO- Pty. Ltd.
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
s—Sturt St., South Melbourne.
' . ■
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Armstrong Traction WelE-Boring Machine
-—• MOVES WITHOUT HOKSES
RUftSELY KEROSENE
OIL TRACTORS.
ALL-STEEL BORING PLANTS,
TOOLS AND CASING.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines,
Pomps, Windmills, Silos, Hay
Presses, Wagons, etc., etc.
tm
EVEN with the advent of improved smoke-
less powders there is always a steady de-
mand for reliable black powder shotgun
cartridges. They are moderate in price
and find great favor among the large num-
ber of shooters who are accustomed to us-
ing them.
There are many brands upon the
market, and as many varying de-
grees of quality.
For more than twenty years,
experienced shooters have
found the “New Club”
black powder shotgun
cartridge to be uni-
formly satisfactory
and to give best
results in all cli-
mates and un-
der all con-
ditions.
B 4 ''New
Club’ ’ shot-
gu|i cartridges
are carefully
loaded with the
best brands of black
p uvder.
Exhaustive tests for pattern
avid penetration are made with
e tch lot as they come through
t .ie Remington-UMC factory.
These cartridges may be obtained at
>?, asonableprice rfrom all leading dealers.
Ask for New Club black powder cartridges.
'he Remington-UMC trade mark is your guarantee of
atisfaction. Interesting shotgun cartridge booklet sent
free on request.
Arras-Union Metallic Cartridge Co., New York and London
the lone hand
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d.
j mm m
y •• ; - , ' ?*,l I J
r:,- • V;;<nn, '■
\ I
m.
mm
■V
,4 -VM
nil
m
A
• ' . . •;•■■: .Vi'::?.
* - »■_ ’
■mm
Mil
IMPROVE YOUR APPEARANCE.
Grow a moustache and make your appearance more attractive.
CAPILLARINE
is a wonderful moustache producer. It never fails to give good results.
For 30 years it has been on the market, and has proved its merit to
hundreds of men. Apply at night before retiring—you will be
delighted with the result.
SEND FOR A JAR TO-DAY—IO/6 JAR, post free.
The G. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, S/6 each, Post Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney,
Established 30 Years.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF?
* look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
LocUyen’s
Hail* Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON'T LOOK OLD.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE. Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all
cases of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by ANDREW MURPHY, W,OY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
Price, 3/- per box, or a course of 8
Boxes for £l. Post free under
plain cover.
On Sale at all Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
THE FAMOUS
SCHEBLER
Carburetter
with Special Attachment
for FORD CARS
can now have
a SCHEBLER
CARBURETTER
installed at a
minimum o f
expense, and
gain
MORE POWER,
SPEED and
FLEXIBILITY.
EASIER STARTING
QUICKER PICK UP
and
BETTER ECONOMY.
Price, as illustrated, £5lO/-
Booklet and all particulars from '
SOLE AGENTS—
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
RIFE § « RAM
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile—
WRITE FOR FREE PLANS and BOOK.
RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.


PERTUSSIN
A remedy constantly
recommended by
Doctors for the last
twenty years against
WHOOPING GOUGH
GOUGHS
CATARRH
ASTHMA
Can be ot
Recovery,
led at all Chemists.
r -
OSTER P * PE THREADING
TOOLS
For the man who wants nothing: but the
best—
THEBE IS NO TURNING BACK OVER
THE FINISHED THREAD WITH AN
OSTER —the Dies open and the Stock is
instantly removed from the pipe by a
simple turn of a thumb screw.
Think what this advantage means over
other styles. They possess other features,
too, which make them INDISPENSABLE
TO THE PROGRESSIVE SHOP.
Aaenti: Call and see a demonstration, or write for booklet on “Pipe Threading.”
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers & Machinery Merchants, 60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
It is the Power
Your Belt
Transmits
that
Counts.
m.
Be
Sure
and
Specify
Sole Agents—
Jas. Hardie 8 Co.
Circular Quay,
SYDNEY.
And MELBOURNE.
Tangrye Portable Oil and Benzine Engines.
mm
Clayton & Shnttleworth Portable Steam
Engine.
Wolseley Crutchingr Plants.
-
If;
Mnnro Handy Paggrer Chaffcutter.
DALCETY & COMPANY LIMITED,
MACHINERY AGENCIES:
TANGYES: Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Steam Engines, Boilers, Pumps of
all descriptions, Winches, Chain Blocks, Hydraulic Jacks, Screw Jacks, Bears, etc., etc.
CEAYTONi SHCTTEEWORTH: Portable Steam & Traction Engines, Steam Road Roller's, etc.
NICHOESON & MORROW: “Union” Parm Implements, comprising Harvesters, Drills, etc.
WOESEEEY Sheep Shearing Machines. MCNRO Chaff cutters and Saw Benches,
GANE MIEK.ING MACHINES.
Si
ft
>0
Aum
MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY,
and all Branches,
Call and Inspect Our Showroom.
Pennies Saved on Every Frame Make You Dollars
It is a mighty small mill that
cannot use NEW BRITAIN
MACHINE CO.’S
DADOER with big advantage.
It does work you have worried
out on a saw table, in one-tenth
the time, and with, oh! so little
effort.
Write or ask for booklet now,
and learn how far back you are
in the progress parade.
We can supply from stock.
■ ,
H. P. GREGORY (SL CO.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS.
Nat Semi-Diesel Oil Engines
MARINE OR STATIONARY.
Works on crude Residual Oil or Kerosene.
Most simple and economical. No Valves, Timing Gear or Water Spray.
Some prices for Marine Outfits, complete with Reverse Gears, Shafts
and Propellers.
DELIVERY FROM STOCK:
7h.p., £135; 9h.p., £143; Afch.p., £168; 15h,p„ £200; 20h.p., £255;
24h.p., £300; 30h.p., £382; 40h.p., £5lO.
Sole Australian Agents s
Warburton, F r anki
307 RENT STREET, SYDNEY.
jsTen
SHEEP
SHEARING
MACHINE
SYDNEY,
Ufie BEST ENGINE TO BUY. - -
15he CHEAPEST ENGINE TO RUN.
Tshe AUSTRALIAN - MADE ENGINE.
In Other Words—
THE SUNSHINE ENGINE
Maker : H. V. McKAY, Sunshine, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane.
ELECTRICAL MACHINERY.
All British Manufacture.
We have received a cable from our Principals that they are prepared to quote and give deliveries
as prior to the outbreak of war—we therefore solicit your inquiries on behalf of Messrs.
BRUCE PEEBLES &. CO. LTD. (Edinburgh) for Dynamos, Alternators, Motors,
Converters, and on behalf of Messrs. JOHNSON & PHILLIPS LTD. (London)
for Transformers, Switchgear, etc.
AGENTS
•9
SYDNEY and
MELBOURNE
