

X>ES'W‘.4LX£ 3 0 -the Whisky of Sterling Value
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 ISL&TCI. t Street, Sydney,
—FOK—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY.
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
ď
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAQH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. nd Telephone: City 9325.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W,
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
F t
K.>.wr howi BtmTc QtPo&m.mvcsTWfTgtr*
fi.fi.fi
|9)oy 109
naipeU
Richardson’s
Wine 8 Spirit Stores,
68 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
158 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
fd
Bottle, Case or Gallon at Wholesale Price.
ďf
M
Take it back.
1 must have-
HUTTON* S
Fine-Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB'S
SPRINGLESS
LOCKS
orq crq
made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
hly nutritious and invigorating for the
estive organs.
1
HANSENS
d
For INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
c
The Best for Rough Roads.
The impregnated rubber=cord foundation of these tyres enables
them to resist moisture, strain and friction. Catalogue free.
THE SILYERTOWN RUBBER CO., Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne.
BEHSDOBPS
Royal
Dutch
COCOA
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY,
mml
m
~ T7>' ' \
ill
Beautify your Rooms
fd
The suggestion of dignified hospitality and refinement so prevalent in Old English Oak-panelled rooms may be easily
secured in our modern homes with the aid of Amiwud.
Amiwud is a panelling with all the color and richness of real hardwood panelling, yet it costs much less. Booklets
and samples gladly sent. Write now!
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO.
D. S. EVANS, Australasian Representative- CHallis House, Sydney.
B U LLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
ď
EXTRA
SPECIAL
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL s .v.o.
HEN Of STATES
CHOICE
fifthoN and
Telegraphic Address-BACON, Murarrie, Queensland
HELIDON SPA
P/ease choose your “SPA” carefully.
You may be penalised otherwise .
STARKEYS LTD., Agent*,
Phillip St., Sydney, and Red fern
The Bulletin
Vol. 35.—N0. 1813.]
[Thursday, November 12, 1914.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


đf
(Postages
shown in
parentheses.')
Graves: Secrets of the German War Office, 2/6 (3d.)
Hamelius: Siege of Liege, 1/6 (Id.).
Hurd: The Fleets at War, 1/6 (2d.).
Oliphant: Germany and Good Faith, 3/6 (Id.).
The White Book, 6d. (id.).
The German W'hite Book, 6d. (Id.).
Palmer: The Last Shot, 3/6 (l£d.).
Reich: Germany’s SSHdigd Head, 1/6 (2d.).
Cramb: Germany arid England, 3/- (2d.),
tloch der Kaiser, illus., 1/- (Id.).
War Book of Facts, 3/6 (2d.).
After the Storm: A Prediction, 6d ()d.).
WAR MAPS OF EUROPE, BELGIUM AND THE PACIFIC, 30 x4O inches, 1/- each, posted 1/2.
GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP’T’Y LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
For Coughs! Colds! Influenza! let the buyer beware*.
AU
Hitter Mttm'lMV
ON
POST FREE ON RECEIPT
OF STAMPS,
d
The large sale for “EUMENTHOL JU-
JUBES” has led to a number of imitations
bei*g manufactured under the name of men-
thol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure and get
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES. You
may be asked to buy other jujubes, and be
told they are “just as good” as Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes. This proves that these
imitations and substitutes have no reputa-
tion of their own, and can only be sold on the
good repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS,
or from the Manufacturers—
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL
COMPANY LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY. [2
Frying-Pan-Germanism
The Red Page
Only in April last year was published
Roland G. Usher’s Pan-Germanism (now
available in a cheap two-shilling edition,
published by Constable). The author is a
professor of history in a U.S.A. university;
and his work is a remarkable exposition,
indeed, exposure, of the Teutonic mind.
Bernhardi’s frank creed, Germany and the
Next War (also now published at 2s. by
Arnold) was regarded as the expression of
the views of a small military caste: Usher
shows that this war is not a Prussian war,
but the united effort of the whole German
nation. Every German is behind the
Kaiser’s big guns: for the nation as a
whole is imbued with the peculiar German
conceptions of honor, and fired with the
swaggering German national ambition.
“I'he Germans aim at nothing less than
the domination of Europe and of the world
by the Germanic race.” So this impartial
U.S.A. professor begins his trenchant ex-
posure of German policy ; and events have
proved him terribly right when he adds:
“One of the fundamental errors, of which
idealists and advocates of peace have been
often guilty, is to treat this vast project as
an unreality. In fact, it is already half
accomplished.”
No doubt, a few men only know the full
details of the plans for the realisation of
this stupendous enterprise, but the whole
nation is none the less fired by their spirit
and is working as a unit in accordance with
their directions. It is literally true that
Germany has “become Bismarckian. His
heavy sprit has settled upon it. It wears
his scowl. It has adopted his brutality, as
it has his greatness. It has taken his cri-
terion of truth, which is Germanic; his
indifference to justice, which is savage ; his
conception of a state, which is sublime.”
Usher adopts a forcible method of empha-
sising his message. He treats Pan-German-
ism from the inside. He shows the causes
of German aggression as they appear to
Germans; the weaknesses of their enemies
and the strength of Germany, as these factors
are viewed by the moulders of that docile
race; he explains the hypotheses upon which
the Germans have built their tremendous
confidence, and the justifiability of their
ambitions, according to the peculiarly Ger-
man conception of ethics. He envisages the
German ideal, not as a war for conquest of
territories in Europe—that would be impos-
sible ; but as a seizure, from beaten nations,
of their rich territories elsewhere; he fore-
shadows a great confederation of States,
including Austria, the Balkans, and Turkey,
of which Germany would be over-lord,
stretching from the North Sea to the Persian
Gulf. Especially is Pan-Germanism directed
against England: she is the one enemy in
the way of Germany’s designs.
Pan-Germanism is, in the first place, a
defensive movement for self-preservation, for
escaping the pressure of France and Russia,
both bent on her destruction. It is, in the
second place, an offensive movement directed
against England, its object, the conquest of
the English possessions in the Mediterranean
and in Asia. She expects thus to obtain an
outlet for her surplus population and manu-
factures, and to create an empire as little
vulnerable politically, economically, or strate-
gically as any the world has yet seen.
The Germans believe in war. The very
existence of Imperial Germany is due to
war. It can be preserved only by war.
“Germans deny the validity of any particu-
lar set of ethical notions of right and wrong
to decide issues vital to the continued exist-
ence of the Germanic race.”
One of the chief articles of Pan-Ger-
manism is the myth of England’s greatness.
She is not decadent, because she never was
strong. She has merely profited by the
weakness of other nations in the past. l The
British Empire is, and has always been, a
sham, a glittering but specious generality.
Her naval power has been the result of a
mere geographical accident. “Imperial Eng-
land is nothing but a trading monopoly, a
chain of forts, a great fleet and a monu-
mental impudence.” The Empire is too
vast: it has too much booty available for
division amongst its many enemies. There
is no bond between England and the peoples
of her Empire.
Why should the colonies fight for the main-
tenance of an empire whose existence is not
of benefit to them, and whose destruction
could not injure them? How could they
furnish England any effective assistance in
a war fought in the North Sea, the Mediter-
ranean or the Near East? Even should
they send troops or supplies so far, their
population is not large enough nor are their
resources sufficient, think the Germans, and,
above all, their military organisation is not
enough perfected, to make such, support deci-
sive for victory... .The loyalty of the
colonies as a whole has been verbal, per-
sonal, a matter of sentiment, with which in-
terests have never been allow id to clash.
That it will stand the strain of real sacri-
fice the Germans believe highly improbable.
One wonders if Pan-Germanism under-
stands now the importance of a mere “mat-
ter of sentiment”?
Germany “hates, disdains, and despises
England.” France, to the Germans, is a
nation that is already senile ; Russia a young
giant, unconscious of iiis strength, unable to
use his strength. France is weak, because
she is a republic. . Russia is too autocratic
to be dangerous. Also, she is bankrupt,
and her army a defeated one. Germany
possesses a unique strategic position of
unguessed strength. “She is not vulnerable
to attack from a fleet.” Economically Ger-
many’s position is as strong; “she is one of
the few nations who can feed and clothe
themselves.” (She will have ample oppor-
tunity, this winter, to prove that assertion.)
“She is amazed that France and England
could seriously think of opposing her army.
(She is more amazed now.) “The average
German is supremely satisfied with his gov-
ernment.” (For how long?)
Germany’s greatest strength, however, lies,
as her rulers think, in the hearty co-opera-
tion of the German people in the great
scheme. They seem all to be willing to
sacrifice and suffer whatever may be neces-
sary for the realisation of the great vision
which has already enthused the nation for
so many years. The Government will be
able to count on the active, willing co-opera-
tion of the whole people.
Why, then, do England and France ven-
ture to dispute Germany’s obvious destiny?
Usher mentions a few facts, which the Ger-
mans refuse to face.
The greatest economic strength of Eng-
land and France comes from the possession
of the greatest individual aggregations of
capital in the world.... The London and
Paris bankers can almost control the avail-
able resources of the world at any one
moment, and can therefore practically per-
mit or prevent the undertaking of any
enterprise requiring the use of more than a
hundred million dollars actual value.... In
the present era there are weapons stronger
than armies.... It is an astounding fact that
England and France own probably the major
part of the bonded indebtedness of the world.
Russia, Turkey, Egypt, India, China, Japan
and South America are probably owned, so
far as any nation can be owned, in London
and Paris The world itself, in fact, pays
them tribute ; it actually rises in the morn-
ing to earn its living by utilising their capi-
tal, and occupies its days in making the
money to pay them interest which is to make
them still wealthier The public debts of
England and France are for the most part
national assets, while Germany’s is almost
entirely a national liability. If the English
and French should pay their debt, they would
pay it to themselves. They would merely
alter the form of recording the national
wealth on the national books. When Ger-
many pays her national debt she will have
to part with actual value which will accrue
to other nations... .England and France,
publicly or privately, owe very little money
outside their own borders. Germany owes
money in every quarter of the globe on the
transactions of her citizens... .Should Ger-
many lose, she can hardly recover from the
catastrophe for a century.
Germany’s reply to these facts is that the
great economic strength of the Allies will
last only so long as peace prevails. Then
they will be made bankrupt. (The Official
Receiver has not yet been called in.) Their
ownership of debts and investments depends
on “the continuance of the present notions
of commercial morality” ... .It is true, the
Germans admit, that such a wholesale
repudiation of debts, as conter plated by her,
would make it difficult for her to borrow
again; but if such a repudiation took place
she would not need to borrow money for
generations to come. She could take all
she wanted, by right of conquest.
Supposing that she should repudiate the
whole debt which she owes other nations,
should seize the capital out of which her
economic development was created, what
then? Would she not actually possess her
economic development for nothing? Could
she ever be compelled to pay for it by any-
thing short of actual conquest, and is there
in the world any nation strong enough to
subdue her upon her own soil?..,.Has she
not everything to gain from war and nothing
to lose?. .. .If she is defeated, she will merely
be compelled to pay what she was already
obligated to pay. If victorious, she need
never pay interest or principal. ... She will
get the cash with which to begin the war
by borrowing from her enemies.... She cares
very little who claims title to that money, so
long as she has it, so long as they can take it
from her only by force.... The Germans
insist that morals and ethics have nothing to
do with this particular issue.
The author devotes the bulk of this aston-
ishing book to an inside review of the
diplomatic struggle during the past few years
between Pan-Germanism and the Entente, in
the course of which he makes the astounding
assertion that the First Balkan War was a
put-up job. The Balkan States were to en-
gage in a sham-fight with Turkey: there
need be only a pretence of war, since it was
on the advice, and with the backing, of both
Triple Alliance and Entente that they em-
barked upon this adventure. Unfortunately
the Bulgarians saw their chance and pro-
ceeded to fight in earnest. They found they
liked it, and saw ahead of them actual inde-
pendence—a thing never considered neces-
sary by the Powers. “The war was too
realistic,”
Usher ends his book by an examination of
the undoubted weaknesses of the Pan-Ger-
manic ideal. Its chief weakness is at its
centre. Italy is a doubtful friend; Prussia
and Austria are hated in southern Gei many,
and Austria, as a military factor, is a broken
reed. And the Germans utterly undervalue
the strength of Britain in India and her
Dominions. India would never submit to
a change of masters. The racial tie. between
England and the Dominions is infinitely
closer than that between Austria and Hun-
gary. Above all, the Germans have much
under-estimated the strength of the moral
obligation which binds the commercial world
together. The great financial heads had
last year already found out that the Geiman
or Austrian Government is not necessarily
trustworthy. And if Germany won, who
would ever take a German’s word again !
Finally, “though the Anglo-Saxon race has
invariably not shown to advantage in the
field before the war, nor indeed during the
first years of a long war, they have usually
won Critics have been compelled to ad-
mit that the English soldiers possessed
some qualities which other troops did not
have.’*
It must be remembered, throughout, that
Usher is writing a year before the war.
That fact gives this work its extreme value.
At least one neutral critic recognised the
policy of deliberate guile and the blatant
repudiation of ordinary morality inherent
in that Frying-Pan-Germanism that has so
rashly leapt into the fire.
o
Relics of Old Colonial Days, a book of
delightful drawings by Sydney Ure Smith,
handsomely performs an historic service.
The sketches, admirably reproduced on grey
paper of ample size, are dignified and artis-
tically pleasing; and the subjects illustrated
have in many cases a permanent place in
our early history. Many of the sketches
show the old-world village of Cobbitty, near
Camden; others depict artistic aspects of his-
toric places like King’s School and Old Gov-
ernment House, Windsor, and the forgotten
charm of Hartley, in the Mountains, and
of Boydtown, on Twofold Bay. Sydney Ure
Smith’s work has, in this volume,_ emanci-
pated itself from a certain stiffness in design
seen in his earlier publications. The edition
is a limited one, and the price only ss. a
copy.
George Sylvester Viereck, a D.'S. poet
whose name looks suspicious, prints in a
New York paper this pro-German poem on
“William 11., Prince of Peace.” It is an
interesting glimpse at the German attitude.
O Prince of Peace, 0 Lord of War,
Unsheath thy blade without a stain t
Thy holy wrath shall scatter far
The bloodhounds from thy country’s fane.
Into thy hand the sword is forced,
By traitor friend and traitor foe,
On foot, on sea, and winged and horsed,
The Prince of Darkness strikes his blow.
Crush thou the Cossack arms that reach
To plunge the world into the night!
Save Goethe’s vision, Luther’s speech,
Thou art the Keeper of the Light 1
When darkness was on all the lands,
Who kept God’s faith with courage grim?
Shall He uphold that country’s hands
Or tear its members limb from limb ?
God called the Teuton to be free,
Free from Great Britain’s golden thrall,
From guillotine and anarchy,
From pogroms red and whips that fall.
May thy victorious armies rout
The savage tribes against thee hurled,
The Czar, whose sceptre is the knout,
And France, the wanton of the world.
But thy great task will not be done
Until thou vanquish utterly
The Norman brother of the Hun,
England, the Serpent of the Sea.
The flame of war her tradesmen fanned
Shall yet consume her, fleet and field—
The star of Frederick guide thy hand,
The God of Bismarck be thy shield!
Against the fell barbarian horde
Thy people stand, a living wall;
Now fight for God’s peace with thv sword,
For if thou fail, a world shall fall!
This ought to comfort the Kaiser. The
trouble is that it will be gleefully read as
deliberate irony.
: « —-
Miss Harriet Callan writes to state that
she is the author of the libretto of the opera
“Giovanni” (music by Alfred Hill), recently
produced by the Australian Opera League in
Sydney an! Melbourne. She complains that
critics assumed that the libretto was written
by Hill. But no mention was made on the
Sydney programme of the authorship of the
libretto. Anyhow, the “Giovanni” libretto
was so poor that the Sydney critic thought it
kinder to let the author remain anonymous.
Since Miss Harriet Callan now is “quite
willing to take the responsibility for it,” the
fact is cheerfully announced.
Harrison Owen has anticipated this page.
The usual guinea will be given for the best
pantoum received by Dec. 19.
#
The Problem of the Nations, by A. Corbett-
Smith (Bale, per Angus and Robertson, Syd-
ney), is a non-technica'l, plainlv-written
study of the causes, symptoms and effects of
sexual disease, suitable for the reading of all
young men. “Sometimes I am in despair
that the public will ever realise how easy it
is to deal with syphilis in it- early stages.”
Gorbett-Smith states, too, that the writing
of his chapter upon the effects of syphilis
upon innocent children was “one long night-
mare.” His facts and statistics are appalling.
The solution of the problem, he states,
is to be found only in bringing home to each
individual member of the community the
exact meaning of sexual disease. He makes
no appeal to sentiment or morality. “The
campaign against cant and any ‘conspiracy
of silence’ must be continued with ever-
increasing vigor. This plague has got to be
wiped out of existence, and to do so we must
have clean and frank discussion.” Such a
book as this is necessary for the realisation
of that —quite possible—result.
The Junior Cadet Manual, compiled and
edited by Lieutenant R. Stupart (Angus
and Robertson, Sydney, 3s. 6d.), places
before Australian school-teachers, concisely
and compactly, the whole of the instruction
required for the training of junior cadets,
thus obviating, it is claimed, the necessity
of referring to numerous text-books. The
whole book is made uniform with the gen-
eral system of training in operation through-
out the Commonwealth. There are 380
pages of letterpress and 156 illustrations.
The Pantoum
Whv has the pantoum been so neglected
by o/al versifiers 5 ? It is difficult, certainly,
but well worth while, as Theodore de Dan-
ville Victor Hugo, Austin Dobson and
ethers have shown. At present I can recall
but one Australasian pantoum, I-'rank Mor-
ton being its author. What is the matter
with giving our versifiers a chance (together
Jifh—ahem—some slight financial encour-
agement, since all true poets are believers
fn art for coin’s sake) to try their pens on
this little-used verse form l The mstruc-
tions for ynaking & pantoum
simple, but the actual making of it is liable
to be a fair cow! It should consist of
quatrains (as many of em a,s you like), m
which the second and fourth lines lines,
not merely Times —of the first stanza be-
come the first and third of the next, and so
on; the rimes running a b, a b; b c, b e;
c d c d- until the concluding stanza, the
second and fourth lines of which should be
the first and third lines of the opening
spasm. The whole line, unaltered, must in
each case be repeated. . .
The following rimed creed of an Aus-
tralian girl (the writer supplied the rime
and his second-best girl provided the creed)
will serve as an unworthy example of the
pantoum: —
Of good things I would have my meed,
God gave me life that I might five —
These are the tenets of my creed—
Love I was given but to give.
God gave me life that I might live;
Let maids he good I will be fair;
Love I was given but to give,
What beauty’s mine is mine to share.
Let maids be good, I wilh.be fair ;
At Fashion’s call my hair I’ll dye—
What beauty’s mine is mine to share—
I’ll keep my vi’let powder dry.
At Fashion’s call my hair I’ll dye—
Those who the goddess love dye young—
I’ll keep my vi’let powder dry,
Clinging to youth, as Faustus clung.
Those who the goddess love dye young;
Man by some means must I decoy!
Clinging to youth as Faustus clung,
Who cares what methods I employ ?
Man by some means must I decoy ;
A question I would ask is this:
Who cares what methods I employ?
Good lip salve never spoilt a kiss!
A question I would ask is this:
Should not all things lend Beauty aid?
Good lip salve never spoilt a kiss;
The quality proclaims the maid.
Should not all things lend Beauty aid:
Cold baths, and linen clean and sweet —
The quality proclaims the maid —
Silk hosiery, and footwear neat?
Cold baths, and linen clean and sweet,
I like, dear scent, a share of pelf,
Silk hosiery, and footwear neat,
Man (more or less), love, and myself.
I like dear scent, a share of pelf—
Of good things I would have my meed.
Man (more or less), love, and MYSELF —
These are the tenets of my creed!
Not only is the pantoum full of flippant
possibilities, but its recurrent lines can be
used to produce a telling effect of monotony,
which would be useful in verses dealing with
drought, wet weather, Empire Day, Joe Cook
and other dreary . circumstances.
HARRISON OWEN.


uGG
Anthony Horderns’ for Fashion and Economy
1" K e i arnboro. l —
Coat ana
Skirt, in Saxe Crepe-de-
Chine ; the Coat is fastened
to a V at neck with Collar
of Self, and is trimmed
Self Buttons and folded
Belt; smart, double basque
Ort Coat, the uilder basque
being aecordeon-pleated ; in
all new shades, Cream or
J3laek £5/9/0
>-
nS
r
253
No. 253.—Bengaline
Hat, 3/11.
No. 302.—White Pique Hat, 3/6.
if
359
No. 959.—Pique Hat, 3/G.
,Y- )
'
m
99
9201 ■'
Io'6
12 H
A
No. 9201. —Black Merveilleux Silk Shirt
Blouse, finely pin tucked, trimmed wide Silk
Insertion, high Collar, fastens front. . 10/6
No. 99.—Smartly-cut Ivory Japanese
Silk Blouse, loose Magyar effect, turned-back
low Collar, finished Navy spotted Foulard Sailor
knot, fastens front, long Sleeves with turned-
back Cuff 12/11
No. 9203.
Divided Riding:
Skirt, button down
centre front, ordinary
waist, in Black and
Navy Coating Serge,
22/6. Finer quality,
27/6,
-V-
-6-^fl
4'6
No, 4201. —Smart Blouse, of Cream Delaine,
trimmed Silk Embroidery, fastens at front, scal-
loped edge, high Collar 6/11
No. 648. —White Cotton Crepe Blouse,
with Vest effect at front, the turned-down Collar,
also pipings and Buttons in colored contrast,
fastens at back, three-quarter Sleeves.... 4/6
The Berwick.—N e w
Design Japanese Silk
Coat anti Skirt, in Black
or Ivorythe Raglan Coat is
effectively trimmed Guipure,
piped with fancy Cord, and
has the new double basque
plain well-cut Skirt. . 63/-
SI
t RV
fflariojt
7/?e Beatrice
The Marion.—Maid’s Robe, in soft White Cot-
ton Voile, simply and daintily, designed, trimmings
of hemstitching and Irish Guipure Lace. Modelled
for Maids from 14 to 19 years 19/0
The Beatrice. —Maid’s Robe, in dainty floral
Voile, beautifully cut and prettily trimmed narrow
French Valenciennes Lace. Expressly designed for
Maids from 14 to 19 years ; also small Ladies.
w 4
V
m
ftioodobo
c 'oc)oc mot,
jYlote " ~ "Cyn f/na '
The Niobe. —An Attractive Robe Costume, in richly Embroidered
Voile, turned-down Collar and Raglan Sleeves are trimmed with Guipure
Edging 23/6
The Cynthia.—A Dainty Robe Costume, in soft White Voile,
effectively trimmed Guipure Insertion, American Collar, finished fulling
on front of Bodice; Skirt has deep flounce forming new Tunic.. 17/6
The Selina. A Dainty style in Hail-spot Muslin, effectively trimmed
Guipure Insertion, neck finished with points of colored Silk, Skirt trimmed
with Insertion to correspond with Bodice 22/6
SS
SCP
f,
N
m
7/>eDa//eaji yfoePoppy
The Dal jean, Maid’s Robe, in a fine Brussels
Net Lace, Paris shade. A simple, graceful Frock
for Maids from 17 to 19 years 19/11
The Poppy.—Maid’s Robe, in a dainty White
Broderie Anglaise Voile, charmingly designed for
Maids from 14 to 19 years 27/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium
BricKfield Hill
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WINCHESTER
“New Rival”-
Loaded Shotgun Cartridges
With any practical combination of powder and shot, in
any make of gun, Winchester “New Rival” Loaded
Shotgun Cartridges give the best obtainable results.
Strong, fast and uniform shooting qualities are theirs.
They make fine even patterns and give excellent penetrat-
ion. These features help to make good bags in the field.
Their patented corrugated head construction adds to their
strength and reduces “cutting off” of the cartridges to a
minimum. Try them and you will be convinced of their
superiority. They can be bought in all gauges of dealers
anywhere. Ask for
Getting Out of Bed
on the Wrong Side !
Did your husband get out from the wrong side
of the bed this morning ? Was he irritable,
inclined to grumble at everything and act like a
bear ? Don’t always blame his temper. More often
than not a man’s irritable disposition is due to
trouble with his liver or digestion and better
than all the soothing and coaxing, is just one or two
Cockle’s Pills
A REPUTATION OF OVER 100 YEARS.
Get him to take two Cockle’s Pills to-night and no matter
how depressed, irritable or out-of-sorts he felt this morning,
he will be as “ fit as a fiddle ” to-morrow. Cockle’s Pills are an
invaluable corrective for all disorders of the liver or digestion ;
they are made according to the
prescription of a famous doctor
and are taken by doctors them-
selves.
ď
The “Rocket”
was the hrst locomotive in the world to run for
public service. This was in the year 1830, ex-
actly 30 years after Dr. Cockle began prescribing
his valuable antibilious pill, which brought him
an enormous practice and world-wide fame.
COCKLE’S PILLS
Of Chemists throughout
the World. Prices in
England, i/ij & 2/9 a box
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE-
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won’t
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quicklv and surely with
WILKINSONS
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
nn HE Best Stories written by Australian
JL Writers appear in The Lone Hand
2/iasazine. Price, 6d. monthly.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
for B °°k. CURES Write for Book
(WSTRAyfIN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
o. GREEN, 210 Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
Insi-t on “ Sineleton s’ —refuse all substitutes.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
I Can Give
You Health
IF YOU WILL TAKE
VITADATIO
The MEDICINE that cured me of HYDATIDS when all else had failed ;
I then purchased the SECRET of the REMEDY.
You need suffer no longer, VITADATIO Is a Tonic, Blood Builder, and
Nerve Restorer. It Cures :
NERVOUS DEBILITY, by bracing the
NEURASTHENIA, by clearing out
nerve poison.
CONSTIPATION, by cleansing the
system.
LIVERISHNESS, by rousing the
liver.
TUMORS and GROWTHS, by destroy-
ing the germs.
DYSPEPSIA, by toning the stomach.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM. SCIATICA.
by dissolving and expelling ex-
cessive uric acid.
GRAVEL and STONE, by flushing
the kidneys.
SKIN AILMENTS, by purifying the
blood.
DEPRESSION, by invigorating the
system.
Sold by Chemists and Stores. Write
for Free Advice and Testimonials.
S. A. PALMER
439 FLINDERS LANE,
MELBOURNE, VIC.
TOOTH & CO. JLtd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
f
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES—Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn.
Price 3/6, posted
3/11. Directions with
every bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard=
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH,'W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC
685 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W
Branches in all parts of the world.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS
LOTION.
QUICKLY REMOVES
SKIN ERUPTIONS . . .
ENSURING A
CLEAR COMPLEXION
The slightest Rash, faintest
Spot, irritable Pimples, _ dis-
figuring Blotches, obstinate
Eczema disappear by applying
SU LPHOUNE
Which renders the skin spot-
less, soft, clear, supple, com-
fortable.
BOTTLES 1/- and 2/9.
For 42 Years-
SULPHOLINE
■Has been the Remedy for
ERUPTIONS
PIMPLES
REDNESS
PSORIASIS
ROUGHNESS,
RASHES
ECZEMA
SCURF
ACNE
BLOTCHES
SPOTS
ROSEA
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists—
J. PEPPER & CO., LTD., Bedford Laboratories, LONDON, S.E., Eng.,
and can be obtained direct from them by post or from
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removes the effect of Sunscorch.


n.
1
BENGER’S
Food
for
Delicate
Children .
' When children
are weakly from
birth or through illness the
digestive strength is naturally
sub-normal, and, as there is
failure to extract full nourish-
ment from ordinary food,
malnutrition results.
Benger’s Food is specially
recommended for overcoming
the ill effects of malnutrition
in growing children^
m
♦
Food
For CHILDREN,
Invalids, and the aged,
is sold by Druggists , etc., everywhere •
Benger’s Booklet—A little work of authority on
the special feeding of Children, Invalids and the
Aged will be sent post free on application to:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., Manchester, Eng.
Branch Offices —N'F.W YORK (U.S.A.) 92 William Street.
SYDNEY (WS.W.) 117, Pitt Street.
Canaoian Agents — National Drug & Chemical Co., Ltd.,
34, St. Gabriel Street, Montreal, and Branches
throughout Canada.
m
m h
d
Don’t Throw
Away Your
Williams’
Talc. Tins.
Post four empty
tins (any odor)
to the J. B.
Williams Co.,
Box 98, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and we
will send you
without ch arge
Williams’
exquisite Silver-
pi at e d Vanity-
Box, with
Powder
Puff and
Concentra-
ting Mir-
ror, exact-
ly like il-
lustration.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
»
(R ,
\ l h
:
Is Where
Our Training
Affects You
DO YOU WANT
A FAT PAY
ENVELOPE?
Are you satis-
fied with your
present position
and salary ?
Trained Men
receive Big Pay.
The I.C.S. can give you a
thorough training in your
own home and in your spare
time at reasonable cost. I.C.S
courses have been raising salaries
for over 20 years, and can help you
to raise yours. 200 courses to
choose from. Write for free prospectus.
INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENCE SCHOOLS
(COLONIAL) LTD.,
Dept. 8.Y.,
26=30 Jamieson Street, Sydney.
I require information concerning your method of
teaching:—
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING,
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING,
BOOK-KEEPING,
SALESMANSHIP,
ARCHITECTURE,
FARMING.
Name
Addbess
m
Bite
Praises And peooinmends
Nur-iiW
Kerr
LAte of Sfr And OuyA Ho .spit aIs.LONDON. writ
6.1
S'
July 9th, 1913.
Dear Sirs,—l am pleased to bear testimony to the merits of your “Bonning-
ton’s Irish Moss,” which, personally, I have proved to be a valuable and safe
remedy for all bronchial and throat affections.
I have never failed to recommend it to my patients and friends, in coughs
and colds, as I deem it a most valuable preparation. (Sgd.) NURSE KERR.
SECRET CURE „ DRUNKENNESS
Just add a little GOLDEN SPECIFIC to the drunkard’s tea or food at meal times
and he will soon be freed from the drink curse without knowing the cause. This
treatment can easily be given without the patient’s knowledge, and is guaranteed
harmless. Cures some cases in a few days. It makes the erstwhile drunkard
absolutely hate alcoholic drink. To prove its value a FREE SAM PLE, book
and testimonials will be sent on receipt of td. stamp. Address in full to .
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., Dept. B 2015, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
**XK*%* >>
w.
Like a Well Developed
and Well Proportioned
THIN WOMEN !
Would You
FIGURE?
ANY WOMAN without full bust development lacks the one essential
that creates a perfect appearance. Lack of proper bust development, hollow
cheeks and “salt-cellars” quickly take from a woman the bloom and fresh-
ness of healthy womanhood. Misfortune may have been your lot in so far
as natural development is concerned, but science has found a way to correct
your deficiency. Even though you have never been full-bosomed, and have
been attenuated all your life, if you suffer from no wasting disease, your
bosom can be fully developed and your weight increased to n0rma1...,.
There are to-day hundreds of women who were once thin, flat-bosomed,
lioilow-ch'eeked and generally scraggly in appearance, and suffering the effects of
anamia and defective digestion, who are now for the first time in their lives
healthy, full-bosomed and pink-cheeked, and enjoying the full vigor of robust
womanhood, as the result of a few weeks under our wonderful
DR. FALLIERE’S FLESH-FOOD.
Flesh-Food is totally harmless in every respect. Its efficacy is beyond question, and its use is
no demand upon the subject’s time. Many cases have gained up to six pounds a week, and an
increase in bust measurement up to eight or ten inches is possible. Flesh-Food offers relief
and development to the thousands of chronically thin women who have despaired of ever possessing
a presentable figure. It is a nerve and tissue food-treatment that adds weight and permanent
development to attenuated women. Guarantee given in every case accepted.
WE HAVE HUNDREDS OF FETTERS TIKE THIS:
Manager “Flesh-Food” Co.. Cympie, Queensland, May 5, 1913.
Dear Sir, —As a nurse, I was vary interested in your Fle3h-Food treatment, and was greatly
surprised at the wonderful results in my case. When I first wrote to you I was only skin and
bone, and I have good oause to be thankful that I wrote you for a free sample, for I feel certain
now that I am one of the very best advertisements you could possibly have, as I am developed in
every way satisfactory to myself, and I have waited a good while to prove if it was lasting in
its effect, and I am now glad to say that your splendid treatment has done absolutely all you
claimed it would, my weight and measurements being ample.—l am, yours gratefully,
Mrs. E. Wingrove.
Let us Send
You a Free
Sample.
TRIAL SAMPLE FREE,
We publish an interesting book on the
subject of attenuation and development,
Stockings and
Socks are made only of
finest Australasian wool.
the backs of Australasia's finest sheep
r —sheep brad on her richest pastures—
comes the wool of which “Jason” Stockings
and Socks are made. This Best Quality Wool
is shipped to the world’s greatest hosiery centre
—Leicester, England—and there in Leicester,
in the largest and most up-to-date stocking and
sock factories, it is knit int o‘Jason.' Jason’
is knit by careful, clever hosiery makers—men
and women who are spurred on in their work
to produce the best.
And thus is the best produced— “ Jason!”
All-wool unshrinkable; soft as silk; delightful
to behold; most comfortable to wear. Every
pair extra spliced toe and heel, and guaranteed
unshrinkable and satisfactory throughout.
Be fashionable. Insist upon having
and see the tab
on every pair.
In case of difficulty come out without and
write us. We will see you are supplied.
The Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, Eng.
Aa~>o
and will send same and a Free Sample Treatment to you FREE OF CHARGE
upon receipt of a 2d. stamp to pay part postage. All communications are
treated as strictly confidential. Call if convenient. 1817
FAELIERE FLESH-FOOD CO.. 1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
QUALITY STOCKINGS
FOR LADIES. Also Socks
and Stockings for Children and Men.
TOBACCO KILLS!
Face to Face with Death I
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. I!. Smith, of Park Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says; “I ivas a hard smoker for SO
years, hut since takinn your sample of Tobacco
Specific I have never had a smoke."
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept, G,
29 O’Connell .Street, Sydney, [s (
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
Allt CUBHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is. in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY.
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women /c children,
lESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collina.at., Melbourne, Vic.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home, Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the oflices, 315 High Hol-
born, London, W,O„ where they pan see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge,
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old Southerly Buster Gets Lost.
At seven o’clock last night a red light was shown
on the G.P.O. tower, indicating the approach oi' a
southerly. Before long the light disappeared, sug-
gesting that the arrival of the southerly had been
postponed on account of the weather. At eight o’clock
the heat had gone up to 80deg. —Sydney Sun.
Southerly Buster turned up next evening well and
hearty, and proceeded at once to his business of clear-
ing and cooling the stifling atmosphere of the city.
—ILL.
Oh have you not heard —
And the thing seems absurd,
Though the citizens knew to their cost—
As they dragged through the street
In the sweltering heat —
That Old Southerly Buster was Lost!
Oh ! we stared for an hour
At the Post Office tower,
Where the red lamp was plainly in view;
Where it hangs from the rope
Like a signal of hope
When Old Southerly Buster is due.
But as certain as Fate.
He was half an hour late;
And blankly w’e turned to the sea;
For we couldn’t make out,
As we turned us about,
Where Old Southerly Buster could be!
But early next night
We were filled with delight,
As we gazed on the harbor afoam,
For we felt —and w T e knew
By the paper that flew,
That Old Southerly Buster was home!
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
My Morning Rose.
In the morning, when I waken
To the fact that whisky, taken
With a dash of frozen soda, would be fine,
indeed, and cold ;
In that fragrant Highland Dew-time
Comes one little stunt —a clue-time
When my angel at eleven turns with waist
of matchless mould !
Turns like Venus to the roses,
Whilst the voice of Smith or Moses
Fills the bar with noise and laughter as the
honest whisky flows ;
’Tis no sad time—
Ah, the glad time
When my Hebe’s charming fingers hand
across my morning rose!
In the bar there, mammon-clustered,
Where the mirrors, silver-lustred,
Flash a thousand bright reflections and the
clinking £ s. d.
On the counter thuds incessant,
Comes a moment very pleasant
When one rosebud fresh and radiant makes
a buttonhole for me!
Friends, a man when getting older
Grows more tactful—whilst the bolder
And less worldly prate .of taxis and of seeing
sundry shows;
One whom age has taught discretion
Lets the silence make impression—
For the eyes of Maude speak volumes as she
hands my morning-rose.
Beer for bank-clerks, men for whisky—
Aye, a woman knows ’tis risky
When the masher dallies loudly with his talk
of race and car;
But the silent man and solemn
He conveys a pica column
With the flicker of an eyelid as he walks
into the bar!
Noise for sucklings, men go gently—
While the infant vi-o-lently
Talks of private rooms and suppers with a
loud and lordly pose?
Men who know the world, my brothers,
Leave the noisiness to others,
But they fix the date with Florrie as she
hands our morning rose !
So in this most blest November,
Whilst the war’s red-flaring ember
Fills the world with blood and battles and
the Maxim’s deadly whir,
Still, to antidote such sadness
One may try a little gladness
With a look that asks a question, and a
word that lends a spur!
Just an eye-flash—’tis the token
As the whisky-seal is broken,
Just the movement of a tongue-tip for one
second as it shows;
Blest discretion !—always use it
So that Hebe never rues it
When she yields a finer fragrance than each
joyous morning rose!
Boys, go gently with a woman —
She is bottled lightning, human —
And she craves for understanding and for
many things besides ;
Not the vista paved with pleasure
Always charms —a woman’s treasure
Waits for silent men and strangers who can
sense the deeper tides !
Tides that flow beneath the surface —
Take another glance at her face —
’Tis the look, the gaze that thrills her, not
the loud, impressive pose;
Learn that silence is a jewel—
Jean is kind and never cruel
If she blushes ’neath the throat-lace as she
hands your morning rose!
Every morning, when I waken,
To the thought that whisky, taken
With refrigerated soda, would he tine, indeed,
and cold;
In that segment of an hour
When my lady hands my flower,
I admire her deep discretion plus her waist's
eye-pleasing mould!
Woman's silent when site means it—
■ This is wisdom —he who gleans it
Will he careful not to hlatlier like the loud
and boastful pros’
All the raptures, all the blisses,
All the pleasures and the kisses —
These are pledged to him in silence who
receives his Morning Rose!
N.B.W.
GRANT HERVEY.


Shopkeepers Can Have Electric Light for 2j4d. an hour.
Think' of the convenience of Electric Light
in YOUR Shop—no Lamps to clean —Electric
Fans giving- coolness on the hottest day.
Don’t YOU want these comforts?
A “ Lister-Bruston” Automatic
Electric Lighting Set
will give you them all —the Engine and
Dynamo start themselves as soon as the lights
are switched on—no need to wait until your
Local Council instals a Power Plant now.
Get the benefits TO-DAY. Let us send you
particulars. There are over 1000 Sets in
use.
■ til i
ll*
11S T
i
i s
II f
a
A 1 P
AGENTS: N.S.W.—W. <3. WATSON & CO., LTD., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
VIC.—SUTHERLAND & ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—CLUTTERBUCK BROS., Adelaide.
Aluminium Bus Bars for
Electrical Purposes.
Aluminium Bus Bars and Switchboard connections show up to great advantage compared with
Copper. Besides being CHEAPER and. LIGHTER for a given conductance, they offer a greater
Overload Capacity, due to their larger radiating surface.
Our Aluminium Bus Bars are British to the backbone —they are made by The British Aluminium
Co., Ltd., of London, who are practically the only Aluminium Manufacturers in Britain. May
we s?nd YOU Aluminium particulars? Be “wise and British."
SPECIAL NOTE.
We are the Sole Australian Representatives for the British Aluminium Co., Ltd.,
of London, and we are going to place the sale of this Company's Products in the
hands of reliable Agents in each State. Write to us direct.
W. G. WATSON & CO. LTD.,
Suppliers of Everything 1 Electrical,
279 Clarence Street; 426-430 Kent Street, Sydney.
Just round from tha Town Hall.
HIM ROD’S
ASTHMA POWDER
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF. "
No matter what your Respiratory *
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
&>, Sir Lauder Brunton’a
Snake Bite Lancet and Cure
A Simple and Practical Reritedy
NEVER FAILS WHEN PROMPTLY USED
Only One Shilling
Carry it in your vest pocket ready for instant use
and you need fear no snake, however deadly. Sir
Lauder Brunton, the famous Royal Physician,
vouches for the genuineness of this treatment, that
has saved hundreds Of lives every year
in India from cobra and karait venom. The com-
plete outfit is only 2y 9 inches long and about as
thick as a pencil. Full printed directions with
each Lancet. Send Postal Note for l/« to
The Union Co« v 299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
mm
kmMi
m
%
v.y>.
m
mi
/
30&3
Mg 1
Rex** Ham Pate
A Sandwich Treat
Yet it is more than a Sandwich treat, because it sunplies wholesome
nourishment in a form that is practically premasticated.
“Rex” flam Pate
is made from pure Ham, carefully selected and ground fine. Then
the specially-prepared “Ilex” seasoning is added —and this in turn
is made from the best spices. The result is a flavor that lingers and
one of which you never tire.
Rex** Ham Pate may be bought from any Grocer.
Try a Veal and Tongue Pate too. It’s a nice change.
Other “Rex” Canned Delicacies are:—
Pork Brawn, lib. tins.
Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
Pork ami Beans, ljlb. tins.
Pigs’ I'eel, in Jelly, lib. tins.
Bunch Tongues, in Jelly, lib.
tins.
“Rex” Luncheon Clieese, in
decorated tins only.
AMD
‘Rex” Brand Bard, for cook-
ing purposes, in lib. prints.
“REX” FRESH SMALL
GOODS, procurable at all
Grocers and Small-goods
shops and carts in Brisbane
and district, and Bendigo and
district only.
Saveloys.
Strasliurg Sausage.
Veal German Sausage.
White Buddings.
Black Puddings.
Pork Sausages.
Frankfurt Sausage.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.,
Curers of “Rex** Hams and Bacon,
PacKers of “Rex” Pore Food Produds,
MaKers of “Rex** Small Goods.
USE THE HOSE
And
let it
be a
length
of
ďf
44 ’Tis the
Hose that
Makes
the
Difference.”
“WAT ERSHED”
RED RUBBER AUSTRALIAN - MADE HOSE.
94 in. x 3-ply, 1/- ft., or
30ft., complete with spray nozzle and tap union
60ft., complete with spray nozzle and tap union
Catalogue and Samples Post Free.
32/-
6O/9
Carriage extra.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
Australian Manufacturers of All Rubber Goods,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane
Reducing the Cost of Pipe Threading
For quick work and clean-cut threads use an OSTER.
OSTER Machines
BELT &, MOTOR-DRIVEN.
Note these features—automatic die
release, automatic oil pump, quick-
opening dies, simple, convenient
die-head.
THE OSTER MFG. CO.,
CLEVELAND, OHIO, 11.5. A.
For Sale by Leading Dealers in
all Cities.
d
Threads,
Tubes,
Nipples
or Bolts.
Built
in 3
Sizes.
[3
: 11
asaustralia
'T*rF%
I I
i s
WBS3P ;V/''
; 'it* fr&Z
■ -F V* , *
; %
111
mmm
Sf m :
PH
; £
buck soKwr
' 1 ,
A
:
.
Ajrvafim &jM>rs* tr
blSTlixiWw
bs&?%>y
■
II
11#**
m
THORNES is indispensable wherever connoisseurs for-
gather. Its distinctive flavor —rich, fare mellow
is favored everywhere.
Look for the “Black Square" bottle when you want a real
square drink. It denotes Scotch Whisky
(i
INCOMPARABLE.
9 9
b/i z <J>|/ W!?;*/*
o
*r
2S
Oli:
ď
f


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 35.-No. 1813.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1914.
Prich Sd,
IN A MINUTE.
Mr. Tudor has repeated Mr. Fisher’s assurance that the tariff will be dealt with in the first session.
HUNGRY AND STILL WAITING ONE: “Hooray! That’s the new cook’s voice again. But when will dinner be ready?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for tlie White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. ner Annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas dumber, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no. MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to', The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and 'interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying te MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotcli, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central Neivs Agency, Qape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A. ; IV. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie . Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Rates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., Sfoz. to 10oz., 2%d. ;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, joz,, Id., and Id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1914.
MORE TROUBLES OF A CALICO
SLUM MINISTRY.
The inflammable calico slum which the
Holman Government is putting up in a
Sydney suburb, so that its people may live
after the manner of aborigines at a shilling
or eighteenpence per week without any
reasonable facilities for a wash, is falling
into deeper and deeper disrepute. The
calico backsliding, besides being transpar-
ent and indecent, is >vholly illegal, and con-
trary to the ordinary requirements of muni-
cipal law. It is scoffed at by mayors,
aldermen, Bumbles, 'doctors and inspectors
of nuisances. A feeling of sorrow pervades
the community that, after four glorious years
of Holman-McGowen Government, and after
spending as much as £8,500,000 of loan funds
in one year to develop the wonderful natural
resources of the State, a peaceful and un-
troubled folk should get back to plain old
cave-dwelling principles, minus the ’possum
and koala and ’roo which once made cave-
dwelling tolerable. At this melancholy crisis
it has been decided to do something special
in the way of finance. A proposal is afoot
that the Australian Government should
guarantee State loans to the extent of
£18,000,000, and that the British Govern-
ment should guarantee the Australian Govern-
ment by putting the honored name of Bull
on the back of the document. The interest
is to be practically any rate that the lender
cares to demand. The Calico Backwash
Government at Sydney wants at least
£7,000,000 out of the pool, and this amount,
at the present excess of the speed limit, will
last it about nine months. After that period,
if the war continues —and it may continue
for a year or for 14 years—interest will
probably be higher, and money scarcer, and
Bull may possibly be weary of financing
his feckless progeny.
* * * *
Sitting peacefully on a stump outside the
pauper city of Calicoville, Sydney, where
there is to be one bath for 24 families —
sitting amid the squalor and the dust and
the dogs, and seeing on the wall the well-
defined shadow of the lady inhabitant getting
herself to bed —any pessimistic philosopher
may reasonably wonder at the whole busi-
ness. During the nine months to the end of
September the imports of N.S.W. exceeded
the necessary exports—the amount required
to pay for the imports and to cover interest
on foreign liabilities —by more than
£8.400,000. This fact has been mentioned
before, but it can’t be mentioned too often.
It means that the aggregate husband of the
lady who is going to bed pijblicly in the
transparency is losing over £11,000,000
worth of work per annum which he might
have if someone sat down really hard on the
importing mania, and if this country set to
work in earnest to be its own manufacturer.
The same remark applies to the aggregate
father of the children who are being burned
alive in some adjacent combustible dwelling
through the imported lamp capsizing, and
the imported Trust oil setting fire to the
imported rag walls, just as the children
(made in Australia) were getting into the
imported bed. It is because of all this im-
porting that Australia is now begging pre-
cariously on the doormat of Bull. Even
in Holman’s wonderful Calico By-ways
State it is only necessary that imports should
be reduced (by tariff or otherwise) to a point
at which exports will pay for them and for
the foreign interest bill, and there will be
£11,000,000 a year more left in the country.
Even Holman doesn’t borrow £11,000,000
a year as yet, so his difficulties would vanish
like the morning mist. And there would be
that much more wages and employment in
the land, so that our pauperised Cornstalk
daughters wouldn’t require to undress in
semi-public in a semi-eleemosynary gunyah.
* * * *
The importation habit, as it exists in
Australia, is twice accursed because it de-
prives the people of work and of self-
reliance. And its concomitant, the foreign
loan, _is five times «accursed because it
despoils the people of work and of self-
reliance, and leaves behind it the capital lia-
bility, and the interest bill, and, in many
cases, a lot of public works which don’t
even pay running expenses—works which
were laboriously invented to employ the loan
and simultaneously to. employ the people
who can’t get jobs on account of the im-
ports which are paid for out of the loan. For
an unemployed loan is the saddest creature
on earth, and work must be found for it,
even if it is only the work of digging a
hole, and cutting down a valuable tree to
fill the hole, and then digging a new hole to
contain the earth which came out of the first
hole. Premier Holman, as Australia’s
sturdiest representative of the foreign im-
portation policy and the foreign loan policy,
may possibly be regarded as seven times
accursed, but that is a mere arithmetical
problem, and it isn’t worth while to pursue
it. As something to go on with it is hereby
suggested that the Australian Foreign-trade
party should acquire a coat of arms, and that
it should be a sketch of a harassed female
going to bed in a calico tent under the eye
of a ribald populace.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Pair of Turkeys.
Political note by “Henry IIorsecollar” :
In a political sense, there are two Turkeys—one
Boiled and the other Fried. They work separately,
each on his own responsibility, and curious results
ensue. Where Sultan Mohammed V. (aged 70) comes
in doesn’t transpire. But Boiled Turkey evidently
controls the army and navy—or, at least, it did a
few days ago. So a German admiral was appointed
to the command of the fleet, which consists mainly
of two big ships lent by Germany; and insult and
battery were done on unfortified Russian seaports in
the Black Sea. Meanwhile, one section of the Turk-
ish army made a dash for Egypt and another went
for the Russian Caucasus. That, as already men-
tioned, was Boiled Turkey.
Presently Fried Turkey, in the person of the Grand
Vizier, sent a hurried inquiry to the British Ambas-
sador —apparently he was the only representative of
the Allies who remained within reach —to ask if any-
thing special had happened. Learning that something
very special had happened, this amazing and child-
like Prime Minister was quite surprised. He hadn’t
heard a gun going off, and he implored the Allies
not to perpetrate harsh deeds that would make war
inevitable, but to allow him time to play the soft
music which soothes the savage breast.
While Fried Turkey was talking in this pleasant
fashion the fleet of Boiled Turkey was trying its
hardest to pound Sevastopol to pieces. Also, one
section of its army was already over the Egyptian
border, while the scrappy force which Russia had got
together in its haste—the thing that David used
when he said that all men were liars—was arguing
with another in the Armenian district. Naturally
the Allies asked Fried Turkey what guarantee he pro-
posed to give that the Boiled forces wouldn’t resume
the war as soon as peace was made. Fried Turkey,
it seemed, had no guarantee to offer. All it could
offer was its expression of profound astonishment.
It is a beaming and infantile form of diplomacy,
but Asiatic diplomacy is mostly of that kind. If
this sort of thing had been put into comic opera it
would be regarded as over the odds. The two kings
of Bitrataria in “The Gondoliers” had their proto-
types in the double-barrelled monarchy of Sparta.
The individual in “lolanthe” who led both parties in
Parliament has happened often in real life; Crom-
well did that sort of thing by not permitting the
other party to do anything he didn’t approve of.
Pooh Bah, who annexed all the jobs and all the
salaries, was too ordinary to be worth mentioning.
But a modern Government of which the Boiled half
goes to war, while the Fried half calls round some
days later to ask if something is amiss and to urge
the enemy not to hit back lest a disturbance should
arise, is too humorous for words.
Millions Clamoring for Bread.
It is characteristic of the present N.S.W.
Government to leave its job unfinished, or
not even commenced, and fly off the handle
after some new enterprise. The new enter-
prise is always financed with borrowed
money. The debt-reduction and borrowing-
abolition and sinking-fund and decentralisa-
tion undertakings having been abandoned;
and £8,000,000 worth of railways (according
to Premier Holman ) being uncompleted;
and the lines to the one big city being so
congested that it has been necessary to tell
paying customers that they can’t get trucks
for four months ; and the railways and tram-
ways having become quite unprofitable under
Holman management; and it being alleged
that land can’t be found for settlers ; and
the drought being so bad that it is proposed
to supply farmers with seed wheat —well,
the Ministry naturally selects this as the
time to start wheat-growing as a State enter-
prise. Whether the Holman crowd, which
includes at least one farmer —and an unsuc-
cessful one —will do any better at wheat-
growing than it has done with a dozen other
enterprises, or than some of its members did
when they tried to run a daily paper, it is
hard to say. An impression prevails that
the said crowd is so afraid of exacting a
fair day’s work lest it may lose a vote that
it won’t make a success of anything. Any-
how Campbell Carmichael, Minister for
Education, wrote _ to Sydney Telegraph
(28/10/’l4) explaining why the wonderful
Cabinet proposed to farm. These were some
of the things he said:
Desperate diseases require desperate remedies.
With the millions of Great Britain clamoring for
bread the least possible returns from wheat lands
become payable.
To face an extraordinary position the Government
does not resort to ordinary measures.
I believe the money required for seed wheat and
clearing will be easily obtainable from the London
market.
And there was much more burble to a
similar effect. But—to get down to details
—what is the desperate disease which re-
quires the desperate remedy? And where
are those millions in England who are shout-
ing something extra for bread? Certainly
there is much poverty in that over-crowded
land, and it may be a trifle worse than usual
by reason of the war, and a distribution of
free wheat would be a supreme blessing. But
the N.S.W. Government proposes not only
to charge the alleged bread-clamorer of
England for its wheat, but to ask that hard-
pressed person to advance the money for
growing it. Now, last year, Britain’s great-
est wheat suppliers, in order of importance,
were (1) United States, (2) Canada, (3)
India, (4) Argentina, (5) Australia, (6)
Russia. And there are occasional small
contributors, such as Chili, Roumania,
Egypt, etc. None of these countries are
devastated by war. They are all growing
wheat at the old address. They can all —
even Russia, seeing that the Franco-British
fleet holds the Mediterranean—get their
wheat to Britain as usual. And as the
armies and navies of Britain, France and
Russia, to say nothing of the forces of Bel-
gium, Servia and Montenegro, are energetic-
ally blocking the usual export to Germany
and Austria, the other buying countries —
including Britain—are likely to have even
more wheat thrown at them than usual, and
much cheaper wheat than the Holman Gov-
ernment will produce, and (incidentally)
wheat which won’t call on them for a big
loan to finance the grower. Regarded as an
hilarious splash,_ and an advertisement, and
ci chance to strike an attitude, and borrow
some more money, and plunge into anew
heap of difficulties, the State wheat experi-
ment looks splendid. Asa business proposi-
tion—especially considering the men at the
back of it—it looks rotten, especially after
Mr. Carmichael’s explanation. The public
hoped for a better explanation.
Circumstances which Call Loudly for
Peacock.
Alexander Peacock, State Premier of Vic-
toria, has cast himself on the bosom of his
country, and asked for a renewal of its con-
fidence—if it has any. Peacock is not a
wildly-inspiring demi-god, still he has suffi-
cient common-sense to tell the peonle that
the war hasn’t seriously affected the local
finances so far, and that he won’t go raving
around with heaps of new taxes and new
deficits, and blame them on the failure of
some French airman to drop a bomb on the
head of Von Kluck in Belgium. In that
respect he is ahead of the Opposition. At
the same time he lacks the genius to build
a straight line from the north-west of Vic-
toria to Portland, and make of Portland
another Melbourne, to the great profit of
the community. In that respect he is on a
level with the Opposition. Peacock would
make a good reliable grocer in a large way
of business. His principal opponent would
make an honest grocery clerk. There is
nothing about either of them which beguiles
the community to throw its hat two miles
in the atmosphere and blow off its waist-
coat buttons with applause. But just now
a born grocer is a much better asset than a
born wild-cat. There is more reason to-day
for giving Peacock a fresh lease of power
than there ever was before. A set of cir-
cumstances has arisen which calls loudly
for Peacock, in the absence of any better
man. The better man is not in sight at
the moment.
+
How Joseph Ward Didn’t Pay For His
Baronetcy.
Joseph Ward, ex-Premier of Maoriland, is
apparently less grateful than he might be
for liis' baronetcy. In the House of Repre-
sentatives at Wellington Premier Massey
lately stated that the Dominion would have
been in grave danger from German cruisers
during the last few weeks, “but for the
protection of the Australian navy.” Where-
upon :
Joseph Ward (Opposition leader) said that that
implied THAT the Admiralty had not used much
foresight.
This seems rather a hard brick to throw at
the British Admiralty. It can’t be every-
where at the same moment. “No man,”
according to a great Irish philosopher,
“can be in two places at once unless he’s a
bird.” The Ma country has to defend
Britain and help in a small way to defend
Belgium. It has to secure London by sea
so that the old Maoriland borrowing push
can get its perennial loam It has to protect
the immensely long ocean route from Wel-
lington to London so that Ward’s push may
safely deliver the frozen carcase which helps
to pay the interest on the money which
Ward and his push borrowed in London. It
has to draw an occasional cheque for
£10,000,000 for petty cash, and to block
the German fleet, and keep an eye on the
Kiel Canal, and to find a few hundred
thousand soldiers to help the hard-pressed
Joefre in France, and to lend Belgium
£10,000,000, and to back up Servia because
that valiant little country has spent its last
copper, and to shove the Turkish invasion
back from Egypt, and to keep an eye on the
Maritz-De Wet insurrection in South
Africa, and to assist in bringing over the
Franco-African army (the French navy be-
ing urgently employed in bottling up the
Austrian fleet), and to support the Rus-
sians in tackling the Unspeakable Turk in
the Dardanelles. Also it will presumably
have to provide transport for its Portuguese
allies, and it is chasing the Emden, and
escorting colored soldiers from India,
and helping thousands -of Belgian widows
and orphans and wounded over to England
and trying to find out how sundry German
ships came to bombard Yarmouth, and pro
tecting fishing boats, and floating n
£250,000,000 loan, and guaranteeing cash
advances for Australasia generally, and try
ing to prevent German air-ships dropping
bombs on its metropolis, and attending to
some thousands of sundries.' The sundries
include a sea-fight on a lake in Central
Africa, and a widely-extended business of
escorting mail ships, and an offer of cash to
Holland for the support of Belgian refugees.'
The other Allies are quite as busy, seeing
that the French have also dashed down
£10,000,000 to help the Belgians, and have
had the best part of their country
trodden to ruins, and are dragging
soldiers across the Sahara; while the
Russians are mobilising beside the great
wall of China, and are scraping up Armenian
students in red-hot haste to make an army
to hold back the sudden and Unspeakable
Turk. Amid all this fury it apparently
didn’t occur to any of the Allies —not even
to the Belgians or the Portuguese—that
Maoriland was quite helpless. Ward’s own
country had borrowed much, and had made
much fuss about its great natural resources,
and it was hard to realise that it hadn’t a
hope of defending itself by its own efforts
against the two or three low-grade German
cruisers which are dodging for their lives
among the Pacific Islands. The British
Admiralty, and the naval departments of
France and Russia and Portugal, weren’t
necessarily suffering from lack of foresight.
They probably took it for granted that
Joseph Ward had shown some foresight
during his long spell of office, and had done
something in return for his blessed and
wonderful baronetcy; and that an island
State, with all its cities on the coast, had
taken the ordinary precautions which its
situation calls for.
Blood and Water and Contraband.
The cables report statements by the British
Ambassador at Washington and Sir Edward
Grey that the United States are (1), issuing
passports for Germans to England, presum-
ably spies; (2) landing in Norway for
shipment to Stettin hundreds of tons of tea;
(3) sending by the same route shiploads
of nickel and benzine; (4) sending, also
by this route, quantities of copper, which is
otherwise almost unprocurable in Germany,
and which is vitally necessary for the lining of
the German shells and other projectiles; and
(5) supplying the oil without which
German aircraft and submarines would be
useless. The same obliging country is
anxious to supply Australia with any goods
it may require, and in an endeavor to secure
the old-time business of Germany is even
sending to this country an exhibition ship,
loaded with every sort of article judged to be
saleable hereabouts. Meanwhile, presumably
to help on the sales, and with the object gener-
ally of obscuring the issues, the United States
puts up from time to time some dreary bore
to say that blood is thicker than water, and
that the United States should join in as a
belligerent on the side of Britain. Thus
Dr. Eliot, an ex-University Professor, lately
reiterated the proposition about blood and
water, and wound up with the customary
tiring statement that his folk should “join in.”
Asa matter of blunt fact, the United States
can’t join in, because it has nothing to join
in with. Its army consists of a mere rag-
tag crowd of 84,000 volunteers, partly white.
Its navy is indifferent in ships, and in any
case is unnecessary to Britain. Indeed, as
Jellicoe would have to leave off work now
and again to dine with the American Admiral
and waste valuable time listening to long,
wordy orations _ about blood and water, it
would be a nuisance. The only way in
which the United States are capable of
effectively “joining in” is by refraining from
selling war material to our enemies. Until
they do this, every good Australian will
regard the blood-and-water talk as merely
the hot-air_ of a Yankee salesman, whose
business principles, so far from having any
preferent claim on us, are supplying us with
very excellent reasons why they should he
cut out altogether.
Hash Enterprise.
The N.S.W. Premier has announced that if
there is any failure hanging about the Aus-
tralian premises it isn’t State Enterprise
but Private Enterprise which has failed.' It
is a pity that Holman hasn’t the sense to
cease discoursing about State Enterprise.
So far as his State is concerned the thing
has been next door to dead for two years.
State Enterprise is enterprise for the benefit
of the State. If, by any chance, it diverges
into a system by which public works are
constructed or managed, -not with a single
view to the benefit of the community, but
more for the purpose of finding well-paid
jobs out of loans for the Government’s sup-
porters, it ceases to be State Enterprise.
Yet it isn’t exactly the Private article. It
is something between the two—say Shandy-
gaff or Hash. It may be set down as a
relation to the old device of the French
monarchy, by which the King’s mistress had
the run of the Treasury for the benefit of
her friends, and thus became a sort of
permanent public work. Perhaps Private
Enterprise might have done as well as
Shandygaff Enterprise at this crisis if it
had persuaded the Australian Government
to lend it £7,000.000, and had been allowed
to raise its prices just as Holman raised
his railway charges and income-tax. It
might have done some good for itself even
without a loan and anew income-tax if it
had been allowed to drag the Cornstalk
Ministry before the Necessary Commodities
body, and force it to reduce its wheat
freights when it reduced wheat prices.
State Enterprise is good ; Private Enterprise
is good or bad according to circumstances ;
Hash Enterprise is never very good
and is sometimes both corrupt and ruinous.
These three should be kept apart—especially
Hash Enterprise.
■ ♦ —: -■
“Sillee, Stu-pid Britishers.”
“0.K.”: When a war-fevered citizen talks
to me of blowing German commerce to bits
I adjourn to a certain restaurant and pro-
ceed to “draw out” the proprietor. The
proprietor is as German as the sausages


Extraordinary Announcement to Agents.
Christmas Edition of
The Bulletin, 1914.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that the
CHRISTMAS NUMBER of “THE
BULLETIN” will be an EXTRA
and SPECIAL ISSUE.
Date of Publication: December 12, 1914.
This SPECIAL NUMBER will con-
tain high-class Stories, Verse and other
Literary Contributions from foremost
Australasian writers.
The Illustrations will be supplied by
the popular Bulletin artists, and
others in the front rank of the artistic
world.
The Ordinary Issue of The Bulletin
ivill he published on the usual dale.
Agents are requested to note
that, as the Christmas Number of
“The Bulletin” is now going to
press, the orders that reach us from
now on will be treated in order of
priority.
that bloom in Berlin, and his arrogance is
quite easily aroused. One feigns to exult
in the latest news of the Allies’ victories
and to believe that he also is exulting. He
with a satirical smile, “Oh, yes, the
Allies are doing well, of course. But Sher-
many must vin in der long rrun —der long
rrun. ...You sillee, stupid Britishers are
deceived by your newspapers. Der Sher-
mans must vin in der long rrun.” After
which he turns to attend to the flourishing
restaurant business that the silly, stupid
Australians are making for him. Our pro-
Britishness is void of system, and seemingly
incapable of being organised. Reared in a
spirit of toleration, we have not yet acquired
an enthusiasm for the policy of Protection
in all its bearings. We are sillee, stupid
Britishers because we neglect those easy
practices of patriotism which the stodgy,
methodical German adopts as a matter of
course. No national genius was required
for writing the “Ten Commandments”
pasted on every parlor wall throughout Ger-
many of late years :
(1) In all expenses keep in mind the interests of
your own compatriots.
(2) Never forget that when you buy a foreign
article your own country is the poorer.
(3) Your money should profit no one but Germans.
(4) Never profane German factories by using
foreign machinery.
(5) Never allow foreign eatables to be served at
your table.
(6) Write on German paper with a German pen,
and use German blotting paper.
(7) German flour, German fruit, and German beer
can alone give your body the true German energy.
(8) If you do not like German malt coffee, drink
coffee from German colonies.
(9) Use only German clothes for your dress and
German hats for your head.
(10) Let not foreign flattery distract you from
these precepts; and be firmly convinced, whatever
others say, that German products are the only ones
worthy of citizens of the German Fatherland.
That circular is just a simple appeal to
racial common sense —a natural outcome of
German devotion to method and organisa-
tion. And we who talk vaguely of captur-
ing German trade and protecting Australian
manufactures without stubborn effort or
crafty organisation—we are “sillee, stupid
Britishers,” putting the enemy’s soup and.
entrees into our mouths that he may steal
away our gains.
Exit the State Circus.
£ul,i N ' S \ Wales Government’s decision to
withdraw its traditionai £ for £ subsidy
-V 11 Shows after Decem-
oei di next amounts to a recognition of the
fact that these concerns are open-air vaude-
ville entertainments rather than educative
institutions. The primary industries are
still as important as at any time in the
State’s history. The farmer needs to be
instructed in his life’s job as much as ever he
did. But these heavily subsidised Shows did
nothing of consequence for them or him.
Most of the State money went in prizes to
Yankee trotters which were of no particular
value to the horse-breeding industry, or to
alleged “hunters,” which were frequently
aged geldings with a knack of hurling their
worn frames and spavined limbs over high
fences. All such items as “trotting com-
petitions” (which are, of course, trotting
races, pure and simple, and are wagered about
as such), “hunters’ classes,” “tandem compe-
titions on horseback,” and so on —in brief, 95
per cent, of the “ring”: events —can be dropped
without damage to anyone but the few who
are interested in turning the affairs into
gigantic circuses. The committees, being
now denied the funds to pay for the sensa-
tions, will be more liable to specialise in the
cheaper and more useful exhibits. The fat
hog will get more attention than in the past.
The thoroughbred sire and the blood mare,
which are of more value to the community,
both on the land and off it, than any num-
ber of freak jumpers or trotters, will be
admired and studied as never before. Also
the immense turnip and the perfect cabbage
and the unimpeachable apple will come into
their own. A gang of city wasters used to
be placated in Old Rome by “panem et cir-
censes.” “Bread and circuses” is again an
urgent problem—this time in Australia.
Most of the State Governments have been
driven to commandeer wheat in order to pro-
vide the bread. But as regards the cir-
cuses there are indications that others be-
sides the distracted Holman Administration
have decided to drop out of the running. If
they do it soon, and permanently, the War,
or the Drought, or the shyness of the
foreign moneylender, or whatever it is that
is making things so awkward for State finan-
ciers, will have wrought a certain amount of
good.
♦
A Letter from a Person of No
Importance.
The Bulletin receives this ungram-
matical letter from a correspondent who
gives his name but supplies no address: —
31st. October, 1914
The Editor
Bulletin
Will you kindly let me know if the following state-
ments are true.
(1) Were any of the Bulletin shareholders inter-
ested in any land around Dalgety or any other of the
towns which the Bulletin tried to have selected as
the Federal Capital.
(2) Is this the reason of the Bulletins Contemptible
references to Cabbera ‘
(3) Is not the Bulletins failure to have the towns
mentioned as suitable site selected an excellent
comment on their inability to influence public opinion
comparable only to the Sydney Morning Herald’s
failure to influence Political Opinion. The writer
has bet a five pound note that you are not game to
publish this letter. He will win if you do not pub-
lish it
(5) Who owns the Cobra Boot Polish Coy are any
Bulletin men interested?
Yours faithfully
James R. Wilson.
To which The Bulletin, without going
into any details about the lamentable
punctuation of its critic’s letter, replies
briefly :
(1) No shareholder of The Bulletin owns, or has
owned, a yard of land at Dalgety, or at any other
place which this paper ever suggested as a possible
Australian capital. At the same time, Tiie Bulletin
has never heard that anybody connected with
the S. M. Herald, Sydney Telegraph or Evening
News, or that any Canberra-ite politician, either
State or Federal, owns land on the Yass-Canberra
area. It may be that the frenzy for Yass-Canberra
\tfas partly the work of hidden land speculators, but,
if so, the fact has not yet com'e to light.
(2) This paper’s “contemptible references to Cab-
bera” (sic) were based on the reasons it advanced-
lack of rainfall, lack of coal, lack of water power,
the smallness of the capital site area, and the amaz-
ing proposition that the Federal port should consist
of 10 square miles ending at • high-water mark. Of
course, if its correspondent believes, from a know-
ledge of his own personal character and innards, that
everybody is actuated in everything by the desire
to sell an allotment at a profit, it is no use arguing.
There are people who are capable of thinking that
the present war started because the British Premier
owned property in Antwerp, and was afraid it would
be destroyed.
(3) The Bulletin’s failure (if it is an assured
failure) to secure the selection of its favorite site
as an Australian capital, ranks with St. Paul’s
failure to promote universal peace and genuine
Christianity. Moral: When you fail, always fail in
good company. Apparently the only permanent
success is Beelzebub.
(4) Cobra boot polish is an advertisement, and is
paid for as such. Nobody in this office has any pri-
vate information about it or interest in it. Inside
knowledge can be obtained by buying a bottle of the
polish and drinking it.
The following is a table of Australian
rabbit-facts to date :—-
(1) A man who meant well introduced the rabbit to
Australia. When it arrived it was a gentle little
immigrant that knew its place and only wanted to
crawl into a corner where there wasn’t a dog, and
stay there.
(2) Under the Australian sun the gentle rabbit
rushed up the birthrate, and started to become a
devouring Curse.
(3) Presently, when the rabbit had become a
larger-sized Curse, the various State Governments
imported hundreds of miles of wire-netting to keep
it from eating Australia. Landowners who didn’t
take the prescribed precautions against the spread of
rabbits were proceeded against by the Government
amidst cheers.
(4) The profession of rabbit-poisoner was invented.
It proved to be rather a perilous profession for the
occasional semi-lunatic who carried his lunch in the
bag that contained the poison. People made money
by inventing special appliances for suffocating rabbits.
(5) Some genius thought of sending frozen rabbits
all the way to England, where the rabbit was still
scarce enough to be regarded as a delicacy. In
rabbit-cursed Australia the small beast with the
white tail was looked upon as offal. The frozen-
rabbit idea was a success, the statisticians published
impressive figures, and toiling city men read with
envy of how rabbit-trappers were making so much
money that they were getting uppish and striking
for more.
(6) A N.S.W. Government that knew not Joseph
Rabbit, but had read the rabbit-export statistics,
came into power and decreed that no rabbits who
resided within a radius of 25 miles from a country-
freezing works were to be poisoned!
(7) Many country people who had nearly broken
their financial neck's getting rid of rabbits in the
not-so-long-ago went partially mad when they real-
ised that a sordid Government had started a policy
of unlimited rabbit at the expense of their crops.
(8) A deputation of country members waited on
the N.S.W. Minister for Rabbits on behalf of their
partially-mad constituents, and extracted a promise
that the ruinous scheme for partially reviving the
old Curse would be revoked at the end of November.
If there is any moral in the bewilderingly
foolish story, it is that a low tariff country
is so desperately anxious to export something
to pay for its imported boots and motor-car
that it is even prepared to foster a curse, if
that curse can be frozen and sold. But the
Government will have to hurry round and
find some other way of making ends meet.
Can’t the lawyer-Premier think out a
scheme for suing the national emu for thou-
sands of years’ back-rent, or something like
that?
Victoria’s Assembly expired the other day,
after a session almost void of useful work.
Certainly the Amending Factories Bill—-
there is one almost every session—was
passed, but everything else of moment went
overboard. Many days were spent on the
Public Contracts Bill, which the “House of
Review” nullified; days were spent when
the Parliament was young in listening to
Watt’s exposition of his Greater Melbourne
Bill; more days were occupied in toying with
the Gas Bill; the Murray Waters Bill got
as far as its second reading, when the Min-
istry discharged it—and so on. The circum-
stances of the past three years push for-
ward once more the question why there
should be any “sessions” of Parliament, or
why they should begin* and end at any old
time the spirit or the fear of defeat moves
the Ministry. Why shouldn’t the most im-
portant bodies of public servants in the
Commonwealth start work as soon as they
are appointed, and continue* at it steadily
for the term of their engagement, like any
other employee, with, of course, the usual
public holidays and a month’s vacation about
midsummer?
Tiie Fat Australian who thinks that only
the Commonwealth has been suffering from
an increase in the cost of living wouldn’t be
able to gather much comfort from the just-
published annual report of the Central Zinc
Cos. This concern ex-Gov. Kintore helped
to establish six or seven years ago, in the
hope of diverting some of the smelting of
Australian zinc ore from Germany to Eng-
land. For a start German experts were
appointed—and somehow they couldn’t make
a success of things. In fact, the business
threatened never to get on its feet a£ a com-
petitor with the imported experts’ own
country. The directors eventually smelt a
rat or something, and J. C. Moulden, an
Australian metallurgist, was given the job.
Gradually he pulled the enterprise out of the
bog, and in the 1912-13 12 months was able
t > show a profit of £9146, or 20s. 4d. per
ton of metal produced. For the past year
the profit was only £926, or Is. lOd. per ton.
Every year for three years past the cost of
coal has risen, and it takes nearly two tons
of coal to turn a ton of Broken Hill zinc
concentrates into metal. Three years ago
the fuel cost the co. 10s.; last year the aver-
age was 14s. 32d. The same with ocean
freight: it cost 10s. lOd. a ton more to carry
the raw material last year than it did in
1911. Other items of the bill naturally
moved up also; and as the selling price
didn’t move up—the selling price being fixed
by the bigger producers of Germany and
Belgium —"the British struggle showed the
microscopic profit mentioned above. Of
course, in a vague sort of way, the English
co. hopes to do better in future. Indeed,
since the war started, there have been cabled
reports to the effect that Britain was inquir-
ing whether it couldn’t smelt all the zinc or
snelter that the nation wants. No doubt, in
view of its magnificent coal resources, it
can. It did practically all the smelting for
Europe once. But it lost the trade, and
with higher wasres and other costs it seems
more than ever likely to lose it again, assum-
ing that the trade could once more be
collared, unless the nation adopts the same
fiscal policy as its recent more successful
rivals.
The tale of “The Old Soldier” :
N.S.W. Health Minister Flowers is quite un-
reasonably anxious to make a splash, and for that
laudable purpose has rushed things much too fast.
Finding that he had a number of old people’s asylums
run on the bad old system of the English workhouses
of 50 or 60 years ago, when the Bumble family
was in full blast, Minister Flowers imagined' that
by a stroke of the pen he could turn them all, with
the Bumbles who manned them, into full-blown
hospitals. But the Bumbles were still to be reck-
oned with to insist on the enforcement of their
ancient regulations copied from their British models.
It has been unfortunate, as the old Bumble system,
which makes the Master of the Workhouse supreme,
is quite incompatible with the control of the Medical
Superintendent.
The incompatibility was curiously shown by what
happened at what used to be the Rookwood Asylum,
but is now the Lidcombe Hospital, resulting in a
mutiny on the part of a patient who had been sent
up by the Department for treatment, and had taken
the trouble to supply himself with clean under-
clothing and pyjamas. He began by wanting to see
the doctor, but was assured that there would be no
doctor for him till next morning, and then only if he
dutifully complied with “the regulations of this in-
stitution,” which still seemed to be the Rookwood
Asylum, and not the Lidcombe Hospital of Flowers’s
dream. In due time the wearisome round of Bumble
questions was completed, and all the printed forms
were filled up. Then the new arrival was given a
ragged coat and waistcoat, and was promised some
other clothes to put on, after he had had a bath, in
exchange for those he was wearing. He remembered
the trouble he had taken to supply himself with clean
underwear and pyjamas, and he began to resent all
this excess of care. He began, too, to see that the
object was, not only to give him medical attend-
ance, but to keep him permanently where he was.
Suddenly he made up his mind, and told them he
was there for medical treatment, and was going back
to Sydney. One of the officials preached to him
about the “regulations of this institution,” but the
mutineer said he didn’t care a colonial for the insti-
tution, but a great deal for his liberty, and started
to tramp back through the mud.
There is a moral knocking about somewhere.
Minister Flowers lias clearly over-rated his powers,
It is not enough to change the name of a thing to
totally alter its character: —
(1) Those who have known the Benevolent Asylums
in N. S. Wales for many years are well aware of the
loose organisation and administration that has be-
come the rule with them.
(2) Most of the inmates, being permanent, -and
neither in need of medical care nor unable to help
themselves, are available for any work that may be
required from them. Thus they set the attendants
free to enjoy themselves in any way that suits them.
(3) There is naturally a difficulty in finding enough
medical men to superintend these places. (There
would be still more difficulty, in the present impe-
cunious position of the State, in finding the money
to pay them properly ; but that is a detail.) It would
be better to turn one of the asylums at a time into a
hospital, and gradually draft the more robust of the
inmates to farm colonies, which would save the
salaries of many of the present attendants and enable
a considerable number of the inmates to do some-
thing towards their own maintenance.
♦
A weird economist is Justice lleydon, of
N. S. Wales, who was reported last week
as follows: —
If a man spends, say. £lO on taking his friends
to a theatre party and afterwards to supper, that
money is absolutely lost to the community. The
theatre employees get some of it, of course, and the
hotel waiters and the makers of wines get some of
it; but the money is lost to the community. On the
other hand, if he put the £lO into the bank it would
be of use, because the bank would give him interest
on it. That is the advantage of thrift and economy
to the community.
Asa matter of fact, uncommonly little of the
money spent on theatres and suppers is lost
to the community. The theatres support an
army of check-takers, scene-shifters, carpen-
ters, clerks, scenic artists, artisans of every
description, electricians, and so on, to make
no mention of the performers and their de-
pendents. A few of the artists may save
money and take it out of the country ; but
not many. Of the balance of the millions
spent on theatres all that doesn’t continue
to circulate in this community is the com-
parative trifle paid as royalty on plays of
foreign manufacture. The proportion of the
money spent on an after-theatre supper
which g'oes out‘bf the country and is thus
lost to the community is about the same ; a
little imported wine may be drunk, but
almost everything else is homegrown. On
the other hand, if instead of shouting him to
theatre and supper a man bought his friend
a guinea hat. the chances are that about 14
of the 21 shillings would be “lost to the
community,” that amount being sent out to
pay the Italian manufacturer and the
German steamship owner. Yet apparently,
if a man must spend a guinea on a friend,
his Honor would give three cheers for the
indifferent patriot who bought him a hat
(without regard to its origin), and an
anthem of groans for the much better Aus-
tralian who let his guinea go in home-made
revelry.
There are two extra-special shouts and an
apology re N.S.W. railway matters to-day.
Shout No. 1 is that more trucks and loco-
motives —many more trucks and locomotives
—are required to shift the crops and the
starving stock, else great loss will supervene.
Shout No. 2 is to the effect that the lines
are so much congested through the struggle
to shove all the traffic of a State six times
the size of England through one bottle-
necked passage to one port that the existing
trucks can’t get along, and, by reason of the
inevitable delays, do only a fraction of the
work they should do. These constitute the
pair of shouts. The apology comes from the
State Ministry, which says that “various
Governments” were lax in the matter of
providing new rolling stock. Yet the
present crowd has been in office for four
years and a few days, and it should have
had time to wrestle with the problem in that
period. No doubt the trucks which Julius
CLesar built are worn out by this time, but
that is scarcely a reason for throwing a clod
at poor old Caesar. A party which has bad
such a long run can hardly plead the in-
efficiency of its predecessors because the
State is a few trucks short, or is deficient in
a wheelbarrow.
♦
A few short weeks ago, before the veneer
had been scraped off civilisation with a
bayonet, there was some excuse for the
shrinking person who preferred not to talk
about the unpleasant consequences of “im-
morality.” But now, with the world a
smoking shambles, more plain speaking is
heard than for years past. Hence, no doubt,
a parson at the N.S.W. Congregational
Union Conference, who read a useful-paper
on sexual immorality, thought his brethren
would take heart and help him with a dis-
cussion. But old habit was too strong for
them; they side-stepped adroitly, and the
paper was practically wasted. The Church
claims to be a moral force ; but what is the
use of a moral force that turns tail and
flees immediately it is confronted by syphilis,
the maker of maniacs? Isn’t the Congrega-
tional Union convinced - even- now, after
three months of war, that maniacs are
dangerous people for the world to breed?
The Sport of the Kaisers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Red King spoke to the Grey King
with a'kind and smiling eye,
And he said that the swords were rusted
and the land was strangely dry.
Never a drop on the cornfields or a sprinkle
of red on the sod,
And the Grey King laughed to the Red
King and he said “Let us trust in
God.”
The Red King spoke to his war lords, and
he said : “Let the swords be bright.”
And the war lords spoke to the people, and
said : “Be ye girt for fight” ;
And the Grey King looked from his window
and cried : “By the hope of loot
It is time for my noble army to lace up its
battle boot.
“Look forth, my lords of the chamber, look
forth that your eyes may see
How the Red King laughs in his whiskers
while making a jest of me ;
Yes, up and down through his kingdom is a
clamor of marching men—
By my father’s pigskin leggings, bring me
my fountain pen !”
Then the Grey King wrote to the Red King
in a way that was most polite,
And he said: “We have here the makings of
a large and cheerful fight.
We will go to the loot together, though your
methods are somewhat odd,
But I carry some wide-mouthed cannon,
and a large-sized faith in God.”
So the Red King answered the Grey King,
and he winked while the ink was wet:
“The only course that is left us is the one
which I most regret;
You have mentioned your faith in Heaven,
and I trust it is not misplaced,
So kindly excuse bad writing, as the season
calls for haste.”
The Red Kaiser mustered his army and the
Grey One laced his boot,
The cannon began to thunder and the rifles
began to shoot,
And around the towns in their smiling a
torment of battle grew
As the heaped dead smoked in the noonday
and the red destruction flew.
The night came down on their striving—the
Red Ctesar slumbered well —
The white stars paled to the dawning and
the day was drowned in hell;
But the Grey CLesar sat at a table and
pawed a large map o’er,
While his war lords told red fictions of the
things of the day before.
The battle raged through the summer, and
all through the winter cold,
Till the graves of the men who perished
were more than the land could hold ;
And the spring brought leaves to the wood-
land and covered the hills with green.
And the Red Kaiser looked to the Grey One,
and the dead were all between.
Then someone—a simple private—sat down
in a ragged tent,
And thought till bis brain was bursting to
find out what all things meant.
And he spoke to this Cassar’s soldiers and
to that one’s over the way,
And both of the armies listened and the war
had end that day.
One Caesar was hanged at sunset from the
limb of an elm tree fair,
And another swung at his elbow with his
boots on the evening air ;
And the bands played “Annie Rooney”
while the soldiers lightly trod
Away from the mad Pendragons who had
put all their faith in God.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


ďf
GAELIC
The Perfect Whisky
... in ...
The Perfect Bottle.
DISTILLED IN THE
HIGHLANDS of SCOTLAND.
YG
BOORD&SOk
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
DT
A
Swift & Company Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney"!]
Missing Friends.
Next of Kin Wanted.
RICHARD CUTTER WHITE.
THE Child or Children of the above-
named Richard Cutter White (who
was for 24 years in the Government Ser-
vice, and died in Melbourne about 1882) is,
or are, requested to communicate with the
undersigned, when they will hear of some-
thing to their advantage.
OWEN & EWING, Solicitors,
Town Plall, Wollongong, N.S.W.
N.B.—RICHARD CUTTER WHITE, a
son of the above-named Richard Cutter
White, is believed to have gone to South
Africa, where he was last heard of. Mrs. C.
EMANUEL, who in 1901 was living at Cam-
bridge Street, Auburn, Melbourne, is be-
lieved to have been the Widow of the above-
named Richard Cutter White (Senior).
Business Notices.
TOURING the Summer a most pleasant,
refreshing, invigorating Tonic Bever-
age may be made by adding a few drops of
Phos to a glass of cold water. Though
Phos is, primarily, a children’s tonic, yet
weary adults should always keep a bottle
handy. Get it now, and don’t be without
it when the hot, fatiguing days come round.
Sold in shilling bottles. If not obtainable
locally, send 1/3 in stamps to the proprie-
tors,
HOCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
The War, to Date.
The war pursues its ordinary way. It has
■become so ordinary now that the time before
the war looks like ancient history. Barring
the fact that the heap of dead is 10ft. higher
than it was a week ago, and the widows
about 100,000 more numerous, and that
another £50,000,000 or so has been blown
away to pay for murder, nothing special
has happened on the Franco-Belgian side.
As a casual U.S. general reported during
the Civil War: “All is quiet on the Poto-
mac” —save for the events just mentioned.
No great area of country has been recovered
since The Bulletin last went to press;
though the balance of fortune has been on
the side of the Allies. People who measure
distances with a large pair of shears on a
penny map reckon that the progress is slow,
and that new commanders should be ap-
pointed. These folk are too impatient
for immediate results. Wellington fought
for several years, and found himself just
where he began; and the battle of Malo-
Yaroslavatz, which was the beginning of
Napoleon’s downfall, consisted of a mur-
derous struggle for the possession of a dila-
pidated wooden bridge about eight yards
long—a bridge which led from nowhere to
a place worth less than 2d. On the eastern
side of the great battle-ground affairs are
moving faster. The disagreement has been
shifted out of Russia into Germany, and
the Austro-German army has lost the great-
est battle of the campaign. Winter has
come down on the land. It is difficult to
dig trenches in the frozen ground. It is
impossible to bury the dead, for it takes a
long time to delve or dynamite a grave, so
the wolves are lunching on the remains. The
hyperborean soldiers in their sheepskin
clothes are steadily gaining command of the
situation, and the tail of Nicholas, the
Grand Duke, is greatly exalted. It looks as
if it had been starched. Certain French
newspapers say bitterly that Nicholas
shouldn’t be so proud of his successes,
because the Kaiser commanded against him
in person for quite a long time, and with the
advantage of the Kaiser for an opponent
any Grand Duke should be able to win
battles. This reads like a reflection on the
great War Lord. The Unspeakable Turk,
who bobbed into the war a few days ago
after his own irresponsible fashion, hasn’t
been much heard of during the last day or
two. Possibly he is trying to bob out
again without attracting attention. The
Ameer of Afghanistan was lately reported to
have gathered a great army on the Indian
border, but whether his intentions were
friendly or hostile or mixed no one seemed
to know. The German colony in China has
caved in and surrendered. The pro-German
insurrection organised by a few Boers in
South Africa is being steadily eaten up by
Botha’s troops. But a British squadron
has been struck off the Chilian coast by a
superior German force, and the results have
been bad. One British ship is certainly lost,
and another is supposed to be lost. By
some curious kink of fortune, the luck of
the Allies appears, up to date, to be worse
on sea than on land. Yet it is cheering to
reflect that this German sciuadron didn’t
hold up Sydney and Melbourne for
£50,000.000 ransom- —mainly because an
Australian non-borrowing Labor Govern-
ment had the sense to provide our country
with some sort of a fleet. It may not be a
very great fleet, but it has already paid for
itself 10 times over. No fleet ever paid for
itself in shorter time. Now it might be well
for Australia to consider whether it can’t
buy-—not out of loans —a couple of ready-
made ironclads from some friendly Power,
and thus make dead sure that there will be
no attemnt in the future to collect a
£50 000,000 indemnity from Sydney and
Melbourne. Small incidental items or
reports of the w r eek are to the effect that
the Russian army, which was scraned
together as a side-line in the Caucasus, has
taken one Turkish city, and is making pro-
gress towards Erzeroum, and is doing
tremendous marches on the road to
Van: that the Sultan hasn’t been
heard of; that the Emperor of Austria
hasn’t been heard of; that the Kaiser’s
hair has turned white: that he eats
his victuals in peevish silence: that he
has definitely taken command of all the
German armies; that Germany has still a
million soldiers available to be called up;
that Britain hopes to shortly dump another
half-million into the battle-line; that France
can gather together 500.000 more soldiers —
young recruits —to strengthen its forces: and
that the Bear is still arriving in quantities.
Also that the United States is turning an
honest penny by selling goods to all. and
sundry. Meanwhile, if all the loose coin in
the world was set alongside the bill it would
look like a dwarf beside a tower. One of
these days, when Germany has to settle the
account for the years which the low cuss
has eaten, there will be marvellous problems
in accountancy.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Yeomen of the Guard’’
Criterion “Seven Keys to Baldpate’
Little “His House in Order
Palace “The Bold Sojer Boy”
Adelphi “A Daughter of Israel’
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Girl in the Taxi”
royal “Within the Law”
King’s “Madame Du Barry”
Princess’s “The Sledge-hammer”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Bijou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville
Olympia & National Hoyt’s Pictures
Esplanade The Green Dandies
♦
Allen Doone, returning from West and
South to Sydney, has settled down at the
Palace, and on Saturday showed the inhabi-
tants (or as many as could crowd into the
place) “The Bold Soger Boy” for the first
time. After seeing this piece one who is
not a Doone enthusiast begins to think there
are more points in his (Doone’s) earlier
Irish drama-trifles than were visible at the
time. '“The Bold Soger Boy” doesn’t seem to
have the sympathy of the co., nor of Doone as
its lead. He is awkward in the character of
the man who, fearing he has killed another
over a card-table, has fled to the army and
fallen in love with the captain’s daughter.
In his typical parts, Doone has a pleasing
style; in his new piece the style has to be
subdued. Characters, in short, have to suit
Doone’s personality, and Lieutenant Adair
doesn’t. Edna Keeley, as the heroine, is, of
course, Edna Keeley. She always is; and
probably that is why she has. so many
friends in front. The others in the cast
(especially the consistent Tom Buckley and
two small girls who have a few lines —in
Act 11. with Doone they played well) do
their work as satisfactorily as it deserves.
They’ll do better when some of the earlier
successes are revived.
Hs * * ❖
Reflections on the way home from Her
Majesty’s (Sydney) :
“lolanthe” illustrates the sway of conventions in
Art. It is already becoming an Old Master. The
conventions and manner of vision, which seemed
quite natural to the painter of a couple of centuries
ago, and which to our new way of seeing things
seem merely quaint, alter similarly throughout
literature. In “lolanthe,” the Chancellor, who is
supposed to be soliloquising in great privacy, says:
“I am a highly susceptible Chancellor.” Immedi-
ately the chorus thrusts in with: “He is a highly
susceptible Chancellor.” Thirty years ago it seemed
quite natural. Since those days we have forgotten
comic opera, passed through musical comedy, and
are in for a decade of the Revue or some other new
convention. Consequently in “lolanthe” this par-
ticular convention seems already quaint, even stilted.
Yet, in our novels, where we allow the writer to
know the inner mind of his character, we accept
the same fashion of vision without an afterthought.
The average man of 1914, placed suddenly in front
of a Rubens, a Velasquez, or still more an El
Greco, would yell with laughter (that is, unless
he were told what he was looking at), by reason
of the manipulation of the planes, the passages and
a hundred other matters. He would not have been
taught to see that way. The same man would be
quite genuinely enraptured by a B. W. Leader.
This is because an unpleasant convention in paint
has imposed the Leader manner of vision on the
average man of 1914. His successor of 1924 will
recognise the Leader for a species of colored photo-
graph, and will be admiring something dif-
ferent. So with literature. If you look at them
" NED KELLY, ” ATSYDNEY ADELPHI.
in one way the lyrics of Herrick and Sir John
Suckling are laughable. If you look at them in a
different way, you see a grace that is unsurpassed
in English. The general rule is that the conven-
tion matters almost nothing. All depends upon
the craftsman. Time only is the arbiter in these
matters. The master technician —irrespective of
his special convention—is the only one whom Time
will allow to live. He is placed amongst the Old
Masters, and, as far as one can tell, the creators of
“lolanthe” will be entitled to a place in the
gathering.
One reason for the popularity of “Seven
Keys to Baldpate” is that the audience
which haunts Sydney Cri. is given three
plays instead of one. The cleverness with
which these three plots are dovetailed
together shows the U.S. dramatist at his
best. There are many things that the
U.S.A. cannot do in drama —things that are
expected as a matter of course from the best
English dramatist; but for sheer dexterity
in plot-construction and a keen sense of the
theatric the plaudits go to the slick workmen
of Wooden Ham country.
If “The Kelly Gang” at the Sydney
Adelphi is nothing else, it is the biggest six-
pen’orth of gunpowder smoke, noise and
corpse on record. The bombardment at
Liege or Namur was a mere rumble com-
pared with the row on the stage at times,
and after a particularly strenuous outburst
the front stalls began to feel under the seats
for the smoke helmets that should be, but
are not, there. Possibly the management
reckons that if the stalls can stand the
murderous colored lights that are switched
on along the front of the stage to tempo-
rarily blind the “house” while the scene-
shifting is going on, they can stand any-
thing. However, that has nothing to do
with “The Kelly Gang,” except that it
causes the front to miss any defects that
may occur for the first minute or so after
the curtain goes up. As everyone knows
the history of Ned and his mates from A to
Z, there is no need to say much about it,
except that the reproduction is quite up to
the standard, and that, as regards popularity
and reception, the Worst Girl series is mud
when compared with this more exciting and
corpseful brand of bellowdrama. Where-
fore, see it before Saturday, on which even-
ing “A Daughter of Israel” will collect der
monish.
THE AUSTRALIAN POLICE IN
“NED KELLY."
Maginess and O' Hara about to arrest a
bushranger.
The week of Australian drama at the
Sydney Repertory Theatre begins on Monday
next with an Australian play called “Mary
Martin.” Wednesday is the first night of
“Mrs. Pretty and the Premier”; and on
Friday three one-act plays, by three Aus-
tralian authors, make a diversified bill. Each
piece will be performed twice, no matter
what happens on its opening night.
* ❖ * *
J. W. Rickaby returned to Sydney Tivoli
on Saturday, and once more struck The
Bulletin as being a conglomeration of the
pick of the comedians who live and labor in
the ’alls. Otherwise things are much as
they were. De Dio and Florence Smithson
reign on unmolested, Tom Kelly is making
the most of his last few nights, and Stell-
ing and Revell provide a good comedy
gymnastic sketch that needs no references to
royalty to help it down.
* * * *
Suzanne, who won the prize for virtue
in the annual competition at Tours, is still
being beloved by all the men who sing to
her at Her Majesty’s .(Melb.). Suzanne,
by the way, is not the actual Girl in the
Taxi. She is rather the lady who is laxy.
The jauntiness and joyousness of Miss
Maggie Jarvis in the part makes one won-
der what sort were the bits of Tours muslin
that didn’t get the prize for virtue. The
two charmers who finished second and third
and were honorably mentioned by the judges!
And the also-ranners! There must have
been some scorchers among the also-ranners
if Suzanne was convicted of first prize on
the evidence of her artless demeanor and her
frillies. But no matter. The libretto of
“The Girl in the Taxi” was due to one
George Okonkowski, and a man with a name
like that is probably a bit off in his spelling.
He meant to say that Suzanne got the prize
for flirtue. And no wonder, if her hus-
band’s idea of a night off was to disguise
himself in a military uniform and get
drunk. “The Girl in the Taxi” will run
till further notice. It is full of plot, music
and honest striving after the unsimple life.
Even the Baroness, who is spotless as
Caesar’s wife, shouts everybody to a supper
at the Cafe de Peccadillo, under the impres-
sion that she is making them giddy for the
first time.
Allen Doom , the
Bold Sojer Boy,
at SYDNEY
PALACE.
Nellie Stewart, at Melbourne King’s,
continues to drive King Louis Quinze from
her bedroom with a torrent of invective.
His Majesty’s infatuation for the lady seems
to be fully explained by the fury of her
wrath, kings being unaccustomed to mis-
tresses who give them a bad time. Louis
has a very bad time. He does everything
a monarch can do to win a smile from Du
Barry—sacks his Prime Minister and asks
Madame to nominate the next one, and
depletes the royal treasury to keep her sup-
plied with extravagances, yet she treats
him as dirt because he objects to a young
man named Cosse. A cat may laugh at a
king, but a king mustn’t curse at a Cosse.
Dashitall!
* * * *
“Within the Law” looks good for another
week or so at Melbourne Royal, and
the question as to who killed stool-
pigeon will continue to worry the vociferous
inspector for the same period. Muriel Starr
gets the misguided sympathies of her audi-
ence as before, nor has the smaller lady—
the little take-down with the extensive
thieves’ vocabulary—lost any of her charm
for citizens in ordinary. Moreover, Joe,
the pigeon-shot, has his admirers, because
he is something better than a “fizgig,”
though a darned sight worse than most
blokes who get into trouble. There is, as
the advt. says, “a purpose and a punch”
in the play under discussion. Its purpose
is boodle and its punch smites reasonable
morality on the bloomin’ jaw every time.
If the present writer’s own reasonable
morality is subjected to any further revivals
of “Within the Law” he will have to count
it out.
* * * *
The Rev. Roland Conway has been nightly
raking the underworld of Westminster for
waifs and strays, and the entertainment has
provided a series of expressive nocturnes at
Melbourne Princess’s. But, despite a fur-
ther fall in prices to 25., Is., and 6d., popu-
lar interest in “The Ever-open Door” has
declined, and looks like reaching pot-boiling
point. Hence the Willoughby people will
close “The Door” with a bang to-morrow,
and on Saturday will try the effect of “The
Sledge-hammer.”
** * *
The reappearance of Valentine and Bell,
the smart biking enthusiasts, is causing a
pleasant ripple on the surface at Melbourne
Bijou. Jessie and Dolly Millar, accordion-
ist and songstress, are also revivals; but
they merely throw in some ragtime that one
would like to forget. Mann and Franks, the
travesty artists, hurl one or two missiles at
sundry bellowdramatic conventions. And
Charles Bartholomew, the “Dublin Dandy,”
is racked by the memory of all the bathetic
poetry ever written. “Devil-May-Care” is
one of Charles’s strongest outbreaks, but he
is also the sad minstrel of a cabman’s
tragedy which should make suitable material
for an undertaker’s smoke night or a concert
at the morgue.
* * * *
This week is the last of Cinquevalli at
Melbourne Tivoli, and any persons who have
missed seeing that much-imitated artist in
jugglery are now cordially recommended to
hurry up. The Boises and Fields and Coco
are throwing themselves about in a gym-
nastic manner; Vaude is still talking to
Verne; Miss Davenport and co. are posing


# lv i c %
RED
Daniel Crawfords
U«»» V|«r 0»«
Scotch M'miskV
-ft J h
x
STAR
insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Pitt & King Streets, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch : 50 Queen Street, Melbourne, s. J. fowler, Manager.
Queensland Branch : 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane, j. a. watson, Manager.
FIRE, ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
’Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
pleasingly on a pedestal; and the
longest of two or three dancing turns is
supplied by Fatima, who professes to be
frisking in a harem. Fatima’s dancing, in
Asiatic fixings, gives the impression that
the Shaker sect came originally from the
Shem country. Her specialty is shaking her
head with great energy, as though she meant
the pacha to understand that he hasn’t a
hope.
“THE EVER-OPEN DOORAT
MELBOURNE PRINCESS'S.
Some of the peaches of Mulberry Court.
“Gipsy Love,” at Adelaide Royal, has done
something to cheer that droughty city. It is
the first visit of Derek Hudson and Miss
Spain and Miss Glyn ; and the last-named’s
final visit, too, as she now drops out of the
co. Maggie Dickenson has the place filled
formerly by Dorothy Brunton. The Tivoli,
after closing for a week, reopens under the
stars, at the Oval, which manager Crawford
rechristens the Home of Happiness. A lead-
ing item is Isabelle D’Armond, a handsome
and very small American just arrived in this
country. Also in the open are Branscombe’s
Dandies, who make dancing and concerted
work a feature this year. Daisy Jerome has
gone from the King’s, where Clinton and
Beatrice are now shooting, and Dan Thomas
is reviving past pantomime-dame successes,
and Mandeno is introducing his dogs. West’s,
Wondergraph, Pav., Star, Empire, etc-, all
rely on the war and the Cup. They started
to show pictures of some local troop-move-
ments, but were promptly censored.
As he has managed to raise the biggest
storm in history, how about calling him
Kaiser Willy-Willy?
Minister Griffith, of N.S.W., speaking
about the criticisms passed on the Canvas
Humpy-town which his Government is
building outside Sydney, lately remarked
that “there are two classes of people who
ought not to be permitted to see things half-
finished.” On this basis is it fair to demand
that these people should pay interest on the
loan incurred for the thing that is only half-
finished? In other words, when a half-
finished Griffith floats a half-finished loan of
£10,000,000 for a quarter-finished railway,
should lie, in his half-finished bumptiousness,
pass one-eighth-finished remarks about the
people who pay the wholly-finished 4| per
cent, which his proceedings run them into?
“Bloggs”: Couldn’t some means be de-
vised to give the Belgian soldiers a rest
from fighting? This nation, which genera-
tions of Britishers, nurtured on the views ex-
pressed by Thackeray in “Vanity Fair,” had
come to regard as typical of all that is mean
and currish, has proved itself in the last
few months as heroic as any in history.
And the world knew all along that it was
industrious, thrifty and efficient, and a leader
in art and literature. The kingdom has
been ravaged by the Germans from end to
end, and of its people nothing remains but
women, children, old men, and about 90,000
soldiers. If we exclude Belgian prisoners
in _ German gaols, and Belgians who are
living out of their own country, the 90,000
are all the males who are left to perpetuate
a race that the world could not well spare.
The Belgians have had more than their share
of fighting. They have faced greater
horrors, probably, since the German
first arrived at Li&ge than any troops
since fighting began—a matter not of
German, valor but of modern armaments. It
would be a fair thing now for the Allies to
give them a spell—or, to put it otherwise, to
insist on their taking a spell. Let the
90,000 wild-cat warriors who are confront-
ing the reinforced Teuton armies in Belgium
be shifted back to the lines of communica-
tion, or, better still, to Paris or Bordeaux.
There should be plenty of Russians available
presently to fill their places, and the world
would feel the loss of these people less. This
is not to say that the world would feel the
wholesale slaughter of the Russians little,
but that it would feel the extermination of
the Belgians much more.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“THE EVER-OPEN DOOR."
Rutland Beckett as a
real live lord.
The lovely and kind little
Miriam (Gwen Dorise).
“W.D.”: Evelyn Beerbohm, who was here
with the Waller co., has a commission in
the 9th Lancers. If cold nerve counts for
anything in warfare, he should make plenty
of widows. The 9th Lancers is, after the
10th Hussars, and outside the Household
Brigade, the smartest regiment in England.
Despite the huge army which is forming,
commissions in the line are difficult to get,
and in the cavalry almost impossible.
Blandly ignoring both arms of the service,
Beerbohm made a dash at a job on French’s
staff. Here he found himself involved in an
early-door rush of 14,000 applicants—largely
Dukes and minor Royalties. Extricating
himself with difficulty he bee-lined for the
War Office. Assisted only by an intimidating
demeanor he penetrated to the private room
of Kitchener himself and asked for a com-
mission in the cavalry. To the stupefaction
of everyone acquainted with the War Office
he got it. It was generally conceded that
such hide was of a quality to blunt the
German shrapnel.
“J.F.H.” (from London) : I knew Aus-
tralia was in it somewhere. The yarn goes
that “It’s a long way to Tipperary” dragged
for a while. Bert Feldman, the publisher,
says that’s nonsense. All that happened was
that, when he set out to get music-hall
singers to take it on, a few of them didn’t
see its possibilities. At last it came to
Florrie Forde, the nowadays plump but still
very pleasing Australian. She didn’t need
much persuading. She tried it on the dog
in the Isle of Wight straight away, and the
dog sat up and barked with joy, and then
Feldman knew it was all right. To date he
has sold 2,000.000 copies.
“J.F.H.”: Genevieve Ward is the only
visiting actress who left any permanent
memorial behind her in Australia. She
gave a benefit performance for the Mel-
bourne Women’s Hospital, and a wing of
that institution was in gratitude named after
her. Genevieve’s biggest hit in London, on
the strength of which she toured the world
and made a lot of money, was as the wicked
Marquise in “Forget Me Not” —a lurid melo-
drama of the old type. It has just been re-
vived in London, with stately Miriam Lewes
in Genevieve’s old part. The reception was
not encouraging. Genevieve was conspicu-
ous among the audience, “looking sweetly
amiable, and taking the keenest interest in
the play that brought her fame and fortune
in 1879.”
Australia’s old friend, Henrietta Watson,
who generally has to take old-woman parts
nowadays, has a fair chance in playing up to
George Alexander in his new play, “Those
Who Sit in Judgment,” at London St.
James’s. Unfortunately it is not likely to
be a success, Alexander’s part—a brilliant,
careless explorer—being outside the some-
what narrow range in which he is great.
Vera Dampier last week, in Sydney,
secured a decree nisi against her husband,
Alfred Julian Dampier, on the ground of
desertion. The pair were married in 1905,
but the marriage was kept secret, and in
1908 they parted at Rushcutter’s Bay. The
respondent, a son of the late Alfred, is sup-
posed to be in America.
“Harrison 0.”: In “Du Barry,” now at
Melbourne King’s, there are 47 characters,
or 470 (I am not sure which), and their
names and occupations are chronicled on the
programme, so that the document looks like
an electoral roll. If the lines spoken by all
these people, other than half a dozen of the
principals, were paid for at space rates, the
coins, if stood one on top of the other, would
reach to the summit of a long beer. If the
wigs worn were attached to the ribbons on
Nellie Stewart’s hat they would reach from
Tipperary to the Day of Judgment. A
friend, who does not want her name men-
tioned, informs me that if the powder on the
faces of the court ladies was mixed with the
tears shed by Du Barry it would make a
paste suitable for removing .nk-stains from
milk puddings. Also, if the rage of the
talented mummers who are cast for Con-
fused Shouting Off Stage, and whose names,
by some mischance, are not mentioned on the
hill of fare, was compressed in a bomb and
dropped on Berlin it would blow the star-
board side of the Kaiser’s moustache into
Holland and create a serious breach of Dutch
neutrality.
From London : Drury Land’s usual sensa-
tional autumn drama —employing fully 1000
people—has been dropped for this year, and
the theatre is likely to he closed till panto-
mime-time. Tree is doing enormous busi-
ness with “Drake,” all profits divided be-
tween the Prince of Wales’ Fund and an
Actors’ Emergency War Fund. “Seven Keys
to Baldpate,” which made an immediate
success at the Apollo, is now out as a novel;
Cohan it appears, merely adapted the idea
of one Diggers. Bourchier is having another
success with the revived “Henry VIII.,” and
plays it nine times a week. ' The tireless
Seymour Hicks goes further. He has
knocked together, with “Kismet” Knoblanch,
a play which shows recruiting and battle
scenes. It is called “England Expects—”
and he plays it, at the Opera House, three
times every day! A recruiting sergeant is
in the lobby, to take prompt advantage of
any enthusiasm for ’listing. A. E. W.
Mason and Barrie have both gone to lecture
in the U.S.A. on Britain’s virtues and the
Kaiser’s villainy, and the latest recruit to
the patriotic ranks is Monsignor R. H. Ben-
son, who has written a “scena”—“Joan of
Arc’s Appeal to the British People.” ' It is
his first appearance as a writer for the stage.
[And his last. He died in the middle of
October.]
“THE EVER-
OPEN DOOR."
The bad man on
stage is throttling
the good little boy.
The lady in the
stalls is upset.
“Theorbo”: “Poverty Point” has reported
the death of Paolo Giorza, who came to
Australia as conductor of the little opera
co. formed of Agatha States, Cecchi, Or-
landini and Susini. Giorza became con-
ductor at St. Francis’s, Melbourne, about
the time Melba was chief soprano there. The
repertoire of that church includes two masses
of his composition, rich in melody. They
are often sung. Cecchi was. an indifferent,
podgy tenor, but a good teacher. He
claimed to have put in six years’ work build-
ing up Melba’s voice. So, when there was
talk —outside Allan’s, about the wonders
Marchesi had wrought for Melba, Cecchi
would spit out: “Hey? Hey? How about my
seex yaire?” Susini, the basso, was dubbed
by Argus critic Keiley, “a mountain of
music.” Ultimately he was killed by a
vehicle in a London street. He had been
first basso at Covent Garden as far back as
1851.
The ill wind which is closing theatre doors
with a bang in London is blowing mummers
to these shores. Leslie Gaze, the Bumerli
of the first “Chocolate Soldier” co., turned
up in Melbourne the other day, and will
presently frisk around as Dandini in the
“Cinderella” panto.
Dorothy Brunton, after being picked for
the principal girl part in the next J.C.W.
panto., has been finally booked for “The
Girl in the Taxi” comedy, where she plays
the ingenue who objects to enforced inno-
cence. Dolly Castles will undertake the
panto, job, for which she was engaged ere
the prospects of the grand annual frivol
became clouded by the smoke of war. At
least, this is the latest announcement from
the seat of panto.
Two Maoriland actors who look like
making good in the U.S. are Jerome Patrick
and Padgett Hunter, both hailing from Dun-
edin. Patrick is best remembered for his
part of the servant in “Passers By.” W. R.
Hunter served an apprenticeship with Hugh
Buckler, in Sydney. In America he took
the name of “Padgett” (after a character,
“Padgett, R.N.”) and started rapidly
towards success. Recently he was touring
with a first-class co. in the successful “Kitty
Mackay,” which is to be seen in Australia
shortly.
“S.T.S.” : The Irish comedian, Tom Kelly,
on the Mclntosh circuit, supplies a remark-
able example of the personal magnetism that
a stage artist —and maybe a preacher, or
orator, or barrister in jury cases —can some-
times bring to bear on his hearers. The
first time I heard Kelly tell his yarns they
went literally with a yell. Girls threw
themselves back in their seats and screamed
hysterically at the ceiling; men stamped and
shouted over casual details in the anecdote
so that one could hardly hear the end of it.
It was a personal triumph for Kelly. The
second time, in the same house and to an
exactly similar audience, he simply failed to
get that influence, whatever it is, across the
footlights. Actually there was talking in
the gallery during his brightest yarns, with
cries of “Hush,” and “Speak up” and
“Order!” On yet a third hearing the audi-
ence seemed to find him just what I had
found him from the first: an entertainer to
listen to attentively, and be grateful for, but
not get hysterical about. Why should a
man’s appeal or “punch” vary like that from
one evening to another?
The Liberal party of Maoriland continues
to show its detestation and dread of the
tiger of Socialism. Hitherto it has exposed
its feelings toward the brute by establishing
State life insurance, State fire insurance, a
State trustee, a State loan office, State
coal mines (including State coal yards and
State delivery vans), State boarding-houses
and State tourist guides. Now, having taken
over the last of the Private Enterprise rail-
ways the Liberal party proposes to give the
tail of the Socialistic tiger one more twist
by presently running a State ferry service
to link up the State trains of the two
islands. The idea is to carry the railway
up to Picton first; so the big Union Co.,
which now provides the service, is given
ample time to kick, if it thinks kicking will
do any good.
Robert George Kekewich, whose death by
suicide is cabled, belonged to a family which
produced three notable men. Each of the
three had a faculty for getting the pick of
the limelight and for wasting it when he
had got it. Robert George was the
youngest. He managed to get the defence
of Kimberley, became a General in the
British Army, and had just been allotted a
command in Flanders when the curse of his
family overtook him. George William, next
in point of years, after a dazzling career in
“the schools,” became secretary to the Board
of Education and the leading educational
authority in the United Kingdom. At this
stage he elected to become an enfant terrible
and was passed out. Arthur, the eldest,
acquired a Judgeship in Chancery. No
Judge who ever sat on the Bench had so
great a number of his judgments reversed.
Of him this yarn used to be told in the
Temple. Hughes, K.C., opening in the Court
of Appeal: “May it please your Lordship,
this is an appeal from a judgment of Mr.
Justice Kekewich.” Appeal Judge (inter-
rupting) : “Yes, Mr. Hughes, have you any
other grounds?”
“Me”: The Sydney Daily Telegraph has
done brilliant things, but none that surpasses
its latest triumph. It published on Novem-
ber 9 a “General view of Constantinople
from the Asiatic side, showing the bridge
connecting Asia Minor with Europe.” When
I visited Constant, some years ago there
was no bridge over the Bosphorus. Evidently
the Telegraph has built one since. The
feat has no rival in modern engineering.
The work shown in the photograph is cer-
tainly a flimsy affair; it strikingly resembles
the ramshackle arrangement that strides over
the entrance of the Golden Horn, connecting
Stamboul with Pera and Galata. However,
the Telegraph’s contraption will come in
useful. All the Allies need do now is to push
Turkey over that bridge into Asia. The
only trouble will be the cost. Whenever I
strolled over that bridge between Stamboul
and Galata the Turk used to collect a half-
penny from me. With an army of half a
million, it will be evident that the Sultan
will have to pawn a few more jewels to
enable his soldiers to reach Asia. And if I
know anything about the construction of
that bridge it will collapse under the first
field battery that ventures upon it, even
though every artilleryman is provided with
his half-penny.
THE BAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It has been suggested by the daily press that an
opportunity still offers for providing the forces with
band instruments.
In battered boots a million men
Came glumly marching by; and when
Far guns saluted them, they swore,
Cursing the million loads they bore;
And, while the sun in anger shone,
Snarled at the heat, and stumbled on.
They scuffled by on blistered feet
An unseen enemy- to meet,
And when quickfirers spoke, and tore
The landscape up, they cursed some more,
And, sullen, eyed the smoky sky
Whereon strange air-craft clattered by.
With thoughts of glory nigh forgot
In that fierce land where beer was not —
Where smokes were scarce arid war was Hell,
And meals too sad for tongue to tell—
Without one rousing shout or song
They dragged their billion bones along.
Yet when a sudden drum began
To beat a cheerful rat-a-plan,
The while a plaintive cornet cried
And other brasses screeched or sighed,
A million men upraised their feet
To match the music’s hackneyed beat.
The long, brown lines of fighting-bloke
Forgot that war was not a joke,
And, when the noise of guns drew near,
They rudely answered with a cheer,
And, though their throats were dusty-dry,
Uproariously prepared to die.
Upon the track to Kingdom Come
There was the thudding of a drum ;
And, with a friendly band to play
Them forward on their dreadful way,
In battered boots a million men
Braced- up and took a pull again.
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


0 A*\
Yir.
wf,
w
V/'h
jsT~-'i
K j
v
frAA-;
rT\&m
11
© © <© @
Soft Felts & Panamas
Our Soft Felt Hats are characteredl by their Smartne* rf Shape, and
sLmeOVeS of Brown, Grey, Slate, Blue, Green and
Fawn. All sizes. 12/fi 14/6, 15/6
STSIT w/#:w* */-
Stcßon Hats (Hard and Soft) 25 /‘ <!0/
REAL AMERICAN PANAMAS.
Extra-fine .plait. Black Silk Bands.
Brims 2± to 31 inches, 15/6,
21/-, 25/-, 35/-, 50/-, to
ft opt, c. We Pay Carriage.
IWID
JONES IP
OPP. G.P.O. SYDNE'Y.
Double-Life
The feature of this shirt is the twofold strongly
and neatly-sewn reinforcement at the neck, as shown
by the arrow in the illustration. It is unnoticeable,
but doubles the life of the shirt.
Made of fine printed Twill in hair stripes of
Black, Helio, Brown, Light Blue, this perfectly
fitting and comfortable shirt will be a boon to men
who want a high-grade and durable shirt at a
moderate price.
Price 4/6» Post Free
to any part of Australia.
Write for our Fine Illustrated Catalogue.
CHAS. LANE & CO.
PTY.
LTD.
Corner Flinders Lane and Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
a
i #
DOUBLE
AT NECK ,
ENSURES
DOUBLE
LIFE.
Society
PENFOLDS
WINES
A little information that spoilt the appe-
tite of the Sydney Insolvency Court was
volunteered the other day by a bankrupt who
imputed his wreck to a contract . lie
undertook in a line of rabbits at the time
, 0 f the Sydney butchers’ strike. He had GO
cases of bunnies, which lie described as
■“rejects, and rejects out of rejects , and he
said that the best part were condemned
rabbits. The worst was left to a reeling
imagination. These delicacies he prepared
as smallgoods. And, as the product was
“too rich for sausages,” it was turned into
“pork fritz.” It’s marvellous wliat you can
do with a little unscrupulousness and a lot
of seasoning.
Letter received at Tiie Bulletin office.
Tel., Petersham 305. St. fcrigids Retreat,
Marrickville, N.S.W.
Dear Bulletin,
I was just reading your highly intellectual paper,
and was struck by a beautiful poem in it, entitled
“In at the Death.” What lofty sentiments'. How
beautifully expressed! “Roman,” you are a won-
derful genius, whoever you are. Give to the work
more of your elevating poetry. Teach the woild o
throw ■ off the superstitions of • these thousands of
years. Heaven and Hell, indeed. “Roman lias
done away wit hthem. Thanks, “Roman. I m
keen on Heaven myself, but I don’t hanker afte.
Hell, and so I’m glad to have it on your authority
that there’s no need to worry, there ain’t no such
place. Well, you dear old bounder, you might show
a little respect in what you print for what Catholics,
anyway, hold so dear, viz., the Sacraments admin-
istered. “In at the Death.” I reckon you are a
dirty bounder and rotter to sneer at such, and the
only answer would be a good hiding, which
would
The correspondent was so dashed wild that
he forgot to enclose the rest of the lettei,
which he wrote at St. Brigid’s Retreat, and
he forgot his signature. So the. communi-
cation stops at the point where this paper is
a dirty bounder and rotter, rrobably it was
an unclean and dissipated hound on the next
sheet, bub (alas!) the next sheet didn t
eventuate. Still, if the author will sent,
that next sheet along, and if it is as vigor'
ous as the sample to hand, space will he
found for it.
* * * *
“The Snake” : I have just killed a large,
scraggy-whiskered wowser. He looked over
my shoulder as I sat on the reading
the lack of war news, and said : “A great
nation, the Belgians, friend; a noble
example to all Ker-istiamty. I let Hgo at
that, but he came back. ‘ I see the 1 urks
are in—an accursed race.” ‘‘Yes,’ I agreed.
“A dirty, anti-liquor, hypocritical conglom-
eration. Nothing like the joy-riding, beer-
guzzling Belgians.” The wowser looked re-
proachfully at me. “It is a poor return for
all that brave little people has done for us,
friend, to miscall them beer-guzzlers.
“Brother,” I replied, “if you will come with
me I Will prove to you that they guzzle
twice as much beer per head of population
as any other European people. If I can t ill
put £5 in the church-plate you nominate. (I
hadn’t £5, but I knew a bookmaker I could
borrow it from.) The upshot of it was
that we obtained the N.S.W. Year Book
(1013) at the Public Library, and this is
part of what we saw
Spirits. Wine. Beer.
Germany .. L. r >Bgals. .97gals. 22gals.
France .. 1.32ga15. 32.80ga15. 7.9 gals.
Britain .. .07gals. ,25gals. 20.8 gals.
Belgium .. l.OSgals. l.Olgals. l,6gals. _
Just, before lie expired I hissed into his
whiskers: “Australia, .0o; .03; 13.-. Then
I hid the body carefully behind the shell
whereon reposed the works of Mrs. llemans.
I knew it was safe there.
A DIFFERENCE.
BILL : “Yer call me a cow, do yer
JIM: “No, I krekled meself an said goat."
BIEL: “Ho, I see. Then it's lucky for you that yer did."
A WORKER OF MIRACLES.
OWNER : “Well, have you made a good job of it?"
NEW CHAUFFEUR : “Good job! I reckon so. Why, Eve got it together an' used about
ten nuts less than the bloke what made it."
Nothing like “Nerve” to keep law-courts
busy. An Adelaide lawyer has appealed to
the Supreme Court against the unanimous
verdict of a jury of 12, on the plea that the
jury ought to have been only six. The
judges told him he should have thought of
that beforehand, and reminded him that, by
an absurd old rule, a jury of 12 has to be
(and in this case was) unanimous, while
in a jury of six the decision of hve can
make the verdict effective. Of coprae the
lawyer knew quite well that he had had all
the best of the deal; but there was the bare
chance of a technical win, and Costs did tne
rest. # .
Everyone always knew that Russia was
an indeterminate quantity, and a vast arnoi-
phous mass incapable even of sustaining
defeat. Nobody was surprised when it first
moved forward, and no one would have been
really surprised if it had stopped, or retired,
or done any one of the hundred things it
might have done; for it is incapable ot anj
normal loathing of the enemy, as was
instanced during the Crimean War when the
Russian officers who were giving a ball after
battle-hours invited the British officers.
The only operative fact ever known about
Russia is that all the mighty movements of
the mass are directed from the Circle ot the
Court, and the Czar recently announced
that he will not relinquish his march on
Berlin while a Russian remains alive. it
is more than likely that this statement is
the simple expression of a terrible tact. At
the present moment his armies are surging
forward in such overwhelming volume that
they have rent the Austrian Empire to
pieces and are now described as engulfing
towns and fortresses. ■ And one reason why
the whole of Eastern Europe is thus being
torn out by the roots is that Potsdam
pushed an old lady out of a tram on August
4. The lady was the Empress-Dowager ot
Russia.' All she wished to do was to go
from Berlin to Petersburg. Potsdam affected
to believe that the old lady might collect
spy-information about troops and aima-
ments en route. Blind to the facts that she
would only have regarded such things from
a decorative standpoint, if at all, and that
her mind would have been entirely preoccu-
pied by the discomforts of the beastly tram,
Potsdam, with characteristic bad manneis,
hurled her from the cars. Before this
childish exploit Wilhelm had a chance of a
friendly arrangement as between autocrats.
Now he has none. He could not see that
the old lady’s trip was harmless to him and
the Romanoff enmity ruinous, and hisblinu-
ness to this central fact will cost him at
least two of the legs of liis throne.
Hermann Kiihr, an Austrian musician 25
years resident in Australia, and well known
in this country, wrote to The Bulletin
from Croatia a month before the declaration
of war:—
I got back to Vienna after all these years of
absence. A great and beautiful city it isimw-a city
of palaces and deadly slowness, the electric trarfta go
at about half the speed of the Melbourne cable trams
—believe me I speak truth. New taxes on every-
thing. You see they want Dreadnoughts. It you buy
a saveloy, 50 per cent, of the purchase goes to the
building of a Dreadnought. I was but two weeks in
Vienna when I had a very easy, loafing sort of job
offered, and I took it, and here 1 am on the borders
of Croatia. The country is very fertile the peop l e very
poor. The woman who looks after the house where
I am staving has not eaten meat for three months,
but shti firmly believes that everything will be all
right in the next world. There will be a big smash
up here on the death of the old Emperor.
And now the fine old musician is. probably
half a day’s journey from a Russian army,
and asked to violate his own nature by
offering unkindnesS to a Cossack.
* * * *
A very tidy man was Charles Herberte,
who suicided in Melbourne the other day.
Charles, a baker, having resolved to cast
his bread upon the waters of the Styx,
wrote a letter to the secretary of his Union,
sent a friend two money-orders and a couple
of railway cloak-room tickets, and then, go-
ing down to the Morgue, put a bullet m his
head. An equally well meaning but less lar-
seeing man, forgetting about the inquest,
might hgve done the deed in a cemetery.
Charles Herberte forgot nothing.
STOMACHS ARE THE GREAT MISTAKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Eyes grow dim and teeth decay,
Feet grow tender, old legs shake;
Rut these fittings pay their way,
Like the motor-hearts that break.
Stomachs are the great mistake !
Stomachs want throe meals a day;
Stomachs will not he denied ;
Life would be extremely gay—
Fairylike, as one might say—
Could we put such things aside.
But the savage urge to eat
Keeps the brute in us awake,
Drives us to wear out our feet
Chasing after joints of meat.
Stomachs are the great mistake.
Stomachs are the tyrants who
Quarrel with the tilings we like;
If I eat some cheese dark-blue,
Instantly the day I’ll rue.
Stomach’s always swift to strike.
Deep, within my being’s core
1 1 this idiotic fake
Ready to make ruthless war
Till I reach the Golden Shore.
Stomachs are the Grand Mistake!
N.S.W.
INDIGESTION BILL.
THE BARGAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ladies, I am a young American, recentty arrived,
31 years ojd, well educated, neat very affectionate
sunny disposition, and very, fond of children. Would
like to get Acquainted With nice young woman or
widow, who could help me or give me a chance to
make good. Object, Matrimony. _ n; ,-,, n
—-S. M. Herald advt. (30/10/ 14.)
Gay, beautiful and good is he, and neat, and fond of
How wrong that such a man should lack innumerable
quids !
Kind is his heart, his temper smooth as water strewn
with oil. ...
What infamy if he should have to stoop to sordu
toil!
An earnest, highly-cultured lad, immaculately drest—
And all he seeks is some good home where he may
dream and rest.
Forward the local Heiress Squad! An utterly inept
And useless U.S. citizen is anxious to he kept.
N.SAV.
OLD GLORY.


Successful
Tooth Cleaning
Sold ly local
Druggists &■ Stores.
Mads by
F.C. Calvf.rt & Co
Manchester, Kng.
should be more than a mere
phrase, —it becomes actual
fact for the people who use
A
Sir?
0
|CARBOLIcTjf
ďf
The PERFECT Panama
So flexible that you can roll it up for bag or pocket;
so light and cool that it ensures comfort on the
hottest days; and SO GOOD IN QUALITY that you
may scrub and clean it when, eventually, it becomes
soiled. Such are our Panamas this season —the
smartest in appearance and best in quality that have
ever been produced for the prices.
Buy one of these cool hats for the hot season —
the illustration shows the shape exactly. Low
crowns. Brims 21 to 3 inches.
18/6 and 21-
Please state size and ividth of brim.
New Catalogue in COLORS, on request.
PEAPES & CO., Ltd.
Men’s Outfitters,
309 and 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
Amongst a myriad minor embarrassments
for Germany arises the question of refugee
ships in the port of Suez. This port, though
neutral, is the property of the Suez Canal
Co. The Canal Co. (which is largely
the British Government) charges har-
bor dues. Nobody will touch German
paper these days, so payments have
to be made in cold cash. For the German
to pay cash is to drain himself of his life-
blood. If, wearied of being thus bled, the
vessels attempt to bolt, they will be caught
in the Gulf of Suez. If they wait and pay
till they can pay no longer, they will next
be arrested for debt —in which case Britain
will have both the money and the ships.
The Kaiser might while away a . long
winter evening in attempting the. solution of
this problem. On the face of it the only
practical issues would appear to be (1) to
present the ships as quickly as possible to
the co., which is Britain ; (2) to sink them.
The latter course would lay the owners open
to an action for damages by the co., but as
the war will probably have left these owners
without assets, they might be willing to risk
the writ for the sake of the annoyance.
In countries where military service is the
real thing affairs are liable to be very
sudden. Wagner’s “Parsifal” was being per-
formed at Beyrouth on August 1. At the
end of Act I. it was announced to the
astounded audience that war had begun.
During Act 11. a good part of the company
and most of the orchestra and a large sec-
tion of the audience had gone away and
mobilised. The process continued till the
finish was a woman —who couldn’t be mobil-
ised —singing the last scrap of the opera to
an empty house.
JARRING.
“Don't it give you a terrible shock when you
run over a man?”
“My word! If he’s a big fat fellow it nearly
jolts the inside out of you.”
LUCK.
SHE: "Had any hick. Gaoge?"
GEORGE: “Hell, I spose you'd call it luck
I had a f iver in my waincoal pocket and
foget to put it on Stiff tut in the last."
The reversion to first principles is a mar-
vellous affair. It is now hinted that the real
value of the quiet old town of Calais to the
enemy lies in the fact that submarines might
be brought there by rail, ready for a dash in
the narrow seas. And it is just about 450
years since the Turk built a railway of
planks across the isthmus at the hindquarters
of Constantinople, and buttered it with
stolen fat, and shoved a fleet across by main
force in the night, and woke up the Greek
Empire in the morning with the news that
its flank had been turned at last.
“H.S.”: How the
world’s supply of
lunatics will jump
within a year or so of
the war ! First, there
are the men who are
personally concerned
in the ghastly busi-
ness. Prince Oscar,
one of the Kaiser’s
sons, is said to have
been struck dumb at
the spectacle of his
staff being wiped out
by Turcoes. Yet Royal
Princes are better fed
and cared for than the
generality of soldiers,
and hence more fitted
to resist shocks. Also,
the most sensational
happenings of the war
are yet to come. The
Indians, to whom the
Germans have de-
cided to give no quar-
ter, and who will
gladly reciprocate,
have yet to get seri-
ously to work, and
800,000 Don and other
Cossacks are prepar-
ing to enter the
Fatherland. Being in-
different to death
themselves, these men
will avenge Louvain in
no niggling spirit, and
many people will be-
come demented in the
process. And then
there are the unborn
children. The Euro-
pean cradle-flock of the
year 1915 will labor
under a big handicap,
unless the pre-natal theorists are all wrong.
* * * *
BALD.
[Poe The Bulletin.]
I stand above the wind-swept seas.
My raven hair
Blows hither, thither in the breeze —-
But deuce knows where!
VICTORIA. S. S.
“Foe” : In the homeward train last even-
ing I found myself sitting next to a fever-
ishly-busy high-school girl. While the car-
riage rocked and
rattled she drew an
outline map of Asia —
or perhaps it was
Maoriland. When she
had completed an out-
line, she spotted the
inside of it with her
pencil-point until it
looked like a diseased
orange. Then above
the different specks
she scribbled words
like “Lace,” “Copper,”
“Diamonds, “Wheat,”
“Manicure Parlors,”
“Robbery.” “Divorce,”
“Tips,” “M ur and e r,”
“Mixed Bat h i ng,”
“Blackmail,” etc. So
far as 1 could see, the
poor kid was trying to
teach herself some
sort of geograp li y.
And I immediately felt
sorry for her anil for
everybody else who
squanders time and
energy over the wrong
thing. I never met a
woman of mature age
who knew tuppence
worth of geography or
wanted to. I once knew
a tall, dark girl who
had received an expen-
sive education and
kept at least a shil-
ling’s worth; but she
hated to be reminded
of the fact. She would
have traded all her
geography for the
knack of making good
scones or dainty mus-
lin dresses; for she
vas sensible enough to
know what thiri g, s
really were of use to a
woman. In my opinion this restless travel-
ling habit that afflicts the sex nowadays is a
direct result of early geography lessons.- A
lot of good Australian capital that is now
squandered in foreign places would remain in
the country if every schoolgirl was brought
up in the belief that Europe was a lizard or
a caterpillar.
“Garnishor” : The cables say of the court-
martialling of Lody, alias Inglis, the Ger-
man spy, that “no similar trial has been
known in England in the history of modern
war.” In point of fact, no similar trial ever
has or could have occurred at any previous
period in English legal history. In war-
time in the past, the law took a merely
passive interest in spies, allowing them to
be shot out of hand. It provided no
machinery for inquiring into the truth of
the accusation, and never bothered itself
about the corpse. Articles XXIX-XXXI
of the Hague Convention made it necessary
to give a spy some sort of trial before exe-
cuting him —any sort of trial in reason
would do. It is in virtue of these Articles
that Lody gets not only a tribunal hut also
counsel to represent him. Despite the fact
that England is not under martial law, a
Court Martial is made to supersede the
Civil Courts by virtue of the Defence of the
Realm Act, which was assented to on August
8. This Act authorises the King to issue
Orders in Council to practically any effect.
All such orders would be prepared under the
advice of Bodkin, prosecutor in this case and
senior counsel to the Treasury—the man
consulted on all novel matters relating to the
Criminal Law. Judgment of the Court is
enforceable by bullet. The real interest of
the trial has been entirely missed by the
dailies. It lies in the fact that England,
alone among the belligerents, adheres to her
signature. Whilst all the other Powers
have been informally shooting suspects, in
contravention of the Articles specified above,
England gives Lody a careful trial.
* * * *
One of the many little things that this
war will wipe out is the German crime of
lese-majeste. In every country except Ger-
many—it may in future be named Hogmany
• —it is not considered necessary to protect
the monarch from ridicule. In Hogmany it
is a crime to criticise the Kaiser, his uncle
and his aunt. Also his grandmother. And
because the law is in existence the Kaiser
and his relations are persistently attacked.
In 10 years of the present Kaiser’s reign he
inflicted more than 1000 years of imprison-
ment under the lese-majestd law; and every
week there are three or more trials for the
heinous crime. The comic journals make a sport
of circumventing the law. To draw a ribald
cartoon so cleverly that, though everybody
knows what it means, it gives the authorities
no chance of a prosecution, is a “scoop” for
the Hogman journalist. Some of the comic
papers owe their circulation solely to their
readers’ belief that each issue will contain
an insult to the Kaiser that cannot he
legally resented. Thus the Kaiser is re-
presented in some cartoons merely by his
boot. At other times his face is skilfully
concealed. It would be Use-maje&ie on the part
of the authorities to assume that the boot re-
presented the Kaiser. The cleverest evasion
of the law was the monograph upon Caligula
by L. Quidde, a well-known Hogman profes-
sor of history. His book dealt scathingly with
Caligula, and Caligula was too dead to
worry about it. Quidde showed that weak-
minded princes are liable to a peculiar form
of insanity, as the inevitable result of pos-
sessing autocratic power and being sur-
rounded by slavish adulation ; and the
reader recognised in this account of Caligula
a remarkably close parallel with the life of
the Kaiser. The book had consequently an
enormous circulation. The State dared not
take action. If the public prosecutor
assumed that Caligula was Wilhelm, It
would have been lese-mdjest6 of the deepest
hoggishness.
A DUBIOUS COMPLIMENT POP
THE LADY.
OFFICER (rounding up Germans): “No
trouble with him, Captain. Wife patriotic
Britisher. Reports credit her with leading
him a devil of a life.”
THE OTHER OFFICER : “Make a note —
Hermann Schwartz, harmless; wife Bri-
tish, possessing all the forceful character-
istics of the British matron.”'
Many practised criminals pride themselves
—usually without reason —on their know-
ledge of the ' law. On November 4, an
alleged robber, with his face made up in
black, broke into a Sydney suburban house
at 3.30 in the afternoon. If he had been
conducting his felony under counsel’s advice
he could not have acted more prudently. His
partial salvation lay in the fact that he
operated by daylight. Had he been a few
hours later he would, in addition to a
burglary count, have been indictable, under
the Statute, for the offence of “going with
a blackened face by night.” (Night in this
particular branch of law commences at nine
o’clock.) It is likely, as far as can be
guessed, and if he has no good excuse to
offer, that he will now get about two years’
imprisonment, if captured. The employment
of his- make-up after 9 p.m. would have
made him liable to penal servitude, which
means a minimum of three years. This in-
stance of the innumerable vagaries and pit-
falls of the law illustrates the value of a,
legal training to the practising criminal.
* * * *
Note from an Australian-in-arms: —
The German army was supposed to be the best
disciplined in the world, but it has never been
trained to pass a pub or a wine cellar.
BATTLE SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Forth, then ! my boys. March, breast forward !
Leit-motiv running through S. M. Herald war
article (6/10/T4) :
Not backwards in the old, unworthy way,
With eyes averted from the angry foe;
Not as our Pacifists approach the fray
(Their heels denote the road they hate to go) ;
No! No! When we start out on war’s grim hunt
We do it with our stomachs to the front.
No crab-like, sidelong movements, boys, for us;
No pointing either right or dexter ears
To where distracted Europe’s incubus
- Awaits our onslaught, racked with craven fears.
Such footwork fails to slake the martial thirst
Of them whose cry is ever “Stomachs first!”
Neither head-foremost up the nearest tree,
Nor down, feet first, some handy mine or hole;
Wherever war is raging there will we
Be found vociferating heart and soul,
Phrases like “Forward, lads!” “Fire straight and
low!”
“Stand firm,” and “Hurl your stomachs at the foe.”
N.S.W.
D.
SPOT BARRED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There are too many prodigal fathers in the country.
Ife >vished to issue a warning against the encourage-
ment of the billiard table.- — Vic. Congregvtionalist.
The proligal father of snooker and pool keeps the
world in mortal sin ;
He will not teach in Sunday-school, nor the sinner
help to win
With the “spider” and “jigger” and such-like' things
he bends to the verdant baize
In his pocket the billiard chalk he brings in proof of
his sinful craze.
The prodigal father who sinks the red and hazards
from off the spot.
Gloomy shall be his dying bed en route to a pocket
that’s hot;
Horrible ,all of his dying yells as he thinks of his
future hard ;
Not for him are the bells of Heaven —-that is the spot
that’s barred.
Doomed is he to the outer dark, with the sneak thief
and the push;
Nought shall avail his saintly mark —a cannon made
off the cush ;
Doomed by his craving for billiards, his devil’s pool
he’ll rue,
When at last they deprive him of his “rest” and
Beelzebub takes his. cue.
victoria.
MARTIN" LUTHER.


THE PATIENT BURGLAR.
The Kaiser announces that he has postponed the invasion of Britain for the time being.-Cable.
KAISER SIKES: there’s really no hurry, I think I’ll call a S ain some time when yon re not so busy.


/EVERY
f more people are
'UB
DAY
proving that
'SC
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub—lengthens the
life of the clothes.
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
r
' k
V .
.A* I iv, ty *
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SYDNEY;
m
Washable
Tubular
Ties
Asl^far Cash's
Seamless
Poplin
Ties
As\ for Cash’s
Sydney,
J/th December, IS!)!).
Helidon Spa Water Co.
Dear Sir,—
The following is analysis of the sample of
your mineral water left with me:—
Grains per gal.
Organic Matter .. . . Traces
Oxide of Iron and Alumina Traces
Chloride of Sodium . . 2.99
Carbonate of Sodium . . 212.14
Carbonate of Lithium . . 2.68
Carbonate of Calcium .. 7.35
Carbonate of Magnesium .. 3.39
Silica .. .. .. 0.29
Total .. .. .. 228.84
Total solids on evaporation 233.01
The difference, 4.17, being carbonic acid driven
off on ignition.
This water contains more lithia than any of
the European Spa Waters, except that from the
Murquelle, at Baden Baden, which contains lithia
as chloride, and it is also much richer in car-
bonate of sodium, though Birresborn, in Prussia,
and Bilin, in Bohemia, approach it.
This water would be used as an antacid and
diuretic, the latter effect being due to the lithia.
I remain, yours truly,
WILL A. DIXON, F.1.C., F.c.s.
We now give an explanation of the
virtues of some of the salts which the
water holds in solution
Bicarbonate of Lithia. —An alka-
line which has solvent powers on Uric
Acid, forming with it a soluble salt, thus
destroying concretions. Purifies the
blood through the kidneys.
Carbonate of Sodium. —For gouty
and uric acid diathesis. Assists the
action of the biliary organs, checks food
fermentation.
Chloride of Sodium.— A gentle stimu-
lant to the liver and secretions. In-
creases the action of the skin, promoting
perspiration.
In conclusion, we briefly submit that the con-
sumption of Helidon Spa gives health and com-
fort to all who use it. Indigestion is instantly
removed, restlessness gives way to a calm feeling
of tranquillity, a refreshing sleep is often in-
duced, feverish thirst is allayed at once, and
when the water is taken with milk in the morn-
ing, a marked improvement in health will follow.
It must be remembered that no water hitherto
discovered is so retentive of carbonic acid gas
which makes its persistent and sparkling efferves-
cence more agreeable to the palate, and also
more grateful to the stomach.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“P.Q.”: He was what you might call a
newspaper agriculturist. He could have written 10
“For the Farm” columns a day without exertion, and
ho used to keep me an hour at a time talking
about the rotation of crops and' the advisability of
giving horses fertiliser to aid their digestion. He
could run a farm (on paper) better than any man
I know, and when it came to details about ventilat-
ing the subsoil and the beneficial effect produced on
beef by crossing Berkshires with Lincolns, there
wasn't another man in Australia to equal him. I
suggested that he should come out and give me a
hand to set a few rabbit-traps. We collected a dozen
or so, and started off. He was in the middle of
a lecture on the injurious effects of late frosts on
growing cows, when he noticed something was miss-
ing. “Say,” he said, “aren’t you going to take any
bait?” That was a couple of months back, and I
haven’t missed a “For the Farm” column since.
A SUCCESSFUL SEASON.
VAUDEVILLE : “Well, what did yen get out of
the provincial season?"
LEGITIMATE : “three weeks, me boy , for
stealing turnips from a stable."
“Pick”: When out hunting among the
higher peaks of the Northern J'ingeras the other day
my mate killed an opossum. I thought less of
him at once, because the interesting little Aus-
tralian, with the intelligent big brown eyes, is
becoming extinct, like his one-time bush fellow, the
native bear; but not being able to resurrect the dead
I gave the corpse to the dog to eat. Fully two miles
away to the south, against the sky, I presently saw
a speck, which advanced in a straight line until a
large, bald-headed eagle sat down beside the half-
eaten ’possum, and passed up his plate. Similarly
I have seen sea-eagles go far out to sea to pick up
a fish. Can these birds really see such a small
object at that distance? If not, what sense brings
them so unerringly to.the banquet?
* * * »
“Ike Maclsaaes”: Six weeks enforced resi-
dence in a Westralian public hospital enables me pub-
licly to doubt the veracity of the gentlemen who give
Chows credit for suffering pain with greater equani-
mity than any other people. In the surgical ward
which I adorned there were some half-dozen Chinkies,
and when being treated none of them evinced any
marked degree of that “stoicism of the East” we so
often hear about. One, the victim of a fairly severe
burning, made the ward ring from end to end every
time his burns were dressed. His constantly re-
peated cries, “Ah, Dai-ya! Da yah! Oh-h, Dai-va!”
were really heart-rending to listen to. I don’t know
Dai-ya, but unless he hangs out right in the middle
of China and is very deaf he certainly heard his
unfortunate client’s cries. Least perturbable of the
lot was a bland gentleman called Yow, who assured us
that he was 79 years of age. He would sit up in
bed all night smoking cigarettes made from tobacco
obtained from nobody-knew-where. To see him, with
the honest, unflinching look of the born liar, give a
flat denial to any doctor or nurse when accused of
smoking, the while he concealed matches, tobacco,
and often his lighted cigarette beneath the bed-
clothes, was a real treat. But at that time he was
practically a convalescent. In contrast to the Chows
all of the white inmates bore their troubles lightly.
And one or two were undoubtedly suffering agonies.
“R.J.8.”: “J.M.M.’s” par (B. 22/10/’l4)
on the heartless treatment of sheep dogs would make
the most humorless drover laugh. The brand of the
suburban bushman is all over it. The average jum-
buck-urger knows that a pampered and well-fed dog
is practically useless. The harder its life the more
fitted for its work it becomes. Give a dog a good
feed, and ’it wants to sleep off the effects. Keep its
appetite always on edge, and it is one of the most
energetic creatures on earth. I don’t say this isn’t
rough on the dog. But don’t blame the bushman.
Blame the dog for being built that way.
•.* • »
“Te Pana”: Brown Brother is a top-hole
fisherman. He seldom bothers about hooks and lines,
but resorts to shrewder methods for keeping the larder
full. Round about Tahiti the
native makes a specialty of diving
for his shark, slipping a noose of
rope over the tail, and then streak-
ing up to help his pals heave on
the line. In Raratonga the native
does most of his fishing on moon-
less nights. Out beyond the reef
in his outrigger he lights a sinnet
dare. The flying-fish do the rest.
Attracted by the light, they set a
course for the canoe, flying straight
into the glare. Many fall into
the boat; and the heart of Pita
rejoiceth. In Fiji the water is
poisoned, and Sa Undre merely
flops in and fills his basket with
any fish that happen to be floating
on the surface. The Tongan uses
a casting net and four-pronged
spear, with a considerable amount
of profit to himself. Hori, in the
Far North of Maoriland, fancies
crayfish, and, being too tired to
make a trap, leisurely falls in the
tide and chases the crawlers to
their home under the rocks. He
grips the ’crav just above the
tail and slings the tucker to his
friends on shore. In Rotumah, a
small coral patch near Fiji, the
natives build a wall of stones on
the reef, leaving only a narrow
channel for drainage purposes.
Every day at high water the old
women of the place go out and
scatter food in the water of the
enclosure, and so attract the fish.
This is done daily for perhaps six
months, until the scaly lodgers
are practically tame, and treat
the pile of rocks as a quick-lunch
counter. Then one morning the
male part of the' village gets
busy. It drops a fine mesh net round the spot, and
the rest is easy.
* * * *
“J.J.C.”: I would like to see some good
Australian start a camel-raising ranch. The great
part this animal is playing in the development of
the inland country is not justly recognised, owing,
perhaps, to the evil company it is mostly forced to
keep. At present the demerits of the driver almost out-
weigh the blessing of the driven. Gunny Bagh’s
fiendish cruelty to the beast is a byword. I have
seen him sling four coils of barb wire across the
back of an old camel, and, at the end of a long
trip I have watched him effecting* repairs to the
animal’s damaged skin by sewing strips of greenhide
on to it. Some time ago a superstition was abroad
that only the imported nigger could drive a camel.
To-day the best camel conductors in the West and
North are good, white Australians; but, owing to the
fact that the Afghans own most of the quadrupeds,
they do not get a show. If the Australian Govern-
ment has any genuine interest in the development of
the Territory, the camel calls for a share of it.
TOO MUCH SYMPATHY.
EGBERT (disgustedly): “There must be somethin’
erbout me that excites symperthy."
ATHEISTANE : " Why?”
EGBERT: “’Cause it don't matter how many people is out op er job , wherever I goes
somebody alius offers me work."
“Billy T.”: The drought had come to
Catterwaul, and to Cotter, who was a man of great
deliberation in pecuniary matters. Cotter’s dam was
falling, and the day came when the owner was to be
seen sitting in the little crazy punt on the dam, with
the blind heat blazing round him, doing nothing but
holding up a big, green-lined umbrella. “’N’ why d'
yell do it, Cotter ?” asked McGuire,' his neighbor. “A
man can do nothin’ ilse, Tom,” said Cotter. “’N’ d’
yeh not mind I’m losin’ lia’f an inch iv wather iv’ry
day wid the evaporation.”
“Alamon” : Northern Territory niggers
make ideal parents, and in seven years travelling
among them I have never found a case of ill-
treatment of children. But the average black does
not treat his wife as tenderly as he treats his child.
At Anson Bay is a lubra, locally known as the
Camel, who has never stood upright since her
husband hammered her for a trifling offence. She
walks on hands and feet, and keeps up with the rest
of the tribe in a marvellous way, seeing that she is
just as heavily laden as the average lubra on the
march. In the same tribe is a strong-minded gin,
who discarded her husband in favor of his brother,
and thrashes that brother as occasion warrants.
He dare not even smoke without her consent. When
punishing a lubra the buck usually sits on the
lady’s shoulders and hammers her head with a
woomera.
“Southern Cross”: How does this affect
the big-tree argument? Mr. Southwell (teacher of the
public school at Burrier) gave me the measurements
and vouches for them. The herb—a blackbutt—is a
few miles outside of Milton (South Coast, N.S.W.).
The top has been burnt off, but the stump is 40ft.
or 50ft. high. Six feet from the ground the tree
measures 80ft. in circumference. A cave has been
burnt out inside, measuring 22ft. by 17ft. Four
coaches could drive abreast over the top of the sawn-
off stump, provided it were sawn off. The tree is at
home to visitors daily till further notice.
* * * *
“Master Cargo”: At Baining, on the south
coast of Australia’s new possession, New Britain, the
natives have a strange custom. When a child is young
they bind the forehead, so that, instead of developing
a dome-like brow, the skull grows long and the fore-
head recedes. This does not appear to make them
more stupid than their neighbors; but that is not
saying much for either party.
THE PRODIGY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They saw a lot of good in Dick.
He was, in fact, a boshter bloke.
At shearing he was clean and quick,
And l.e was ready with a joke.
The best of men, they seemed to think,
If ’twasn’t for the drop of drink.
When sober Dick could sing a treat;
His strength made Samson small and weak;
When off the drink he’d easily beat
The smartest horseman ’long the creek;
At writing verse he’d hold his own
If he’d but leave the drink alone.
Dick was a real good-looking chap
When spruced a bit and off the beer,
Knew every country on the map,
And talked six languages, I hear.
If with teetotal stuff content
You wouldn’t know him from a gent.
Of “Gov’ment ’Ouse” he’d have the run
If but induced to take a pull.
But he’s been here since Nineteen-one,
And somehow he is always full.
’Tis thirteen years since first they met,
And no one’s seen him sober yet! .
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.
“Bill Bowang”: Until quite recently I
looked upon the brolga, or native companion, as a
shy bird. However, a few days back I discovered
that it had a big helping of bravery in its make-up.
Riding along a bush track I came across a female
of the species caught in some wire-netting which had
been used for a rabbit drive. She was struggling
violently to free herself, to the accompaniment of
loud screaming. A male bird was fluttering around,
at a loss how to assist his missus. Seeing me
approach he rose and flew away. I dismounted and
stood watching the captive. So interested was I
with the brilliancy of its coloring that I failed to
hear or see the head of the family returning. He
arrived with a whiz and dash, striking me on the
head, and knocking my hat off. Then he rose with
a prolonged, harsh scream and wheeled away in a
wide circle, evidently determined to make another
swoop. As these birds generally make for one’s eyes
I hurriedly set his mate free.
THE BACKSLIDING OF ANGUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A frugal man was McAdoo,
And Angus was his former name';
Though rich, he toiled among the crew
Who tilled his soil, and well they knew
He deemed it not a thing of shame
To work his men from dawn of day
Till Night was well upon her way.
He nipped and saved the bright bawbee,
And poorly lived full rich to die.
When drought came down upon him he
On lowly knees prayed ceaselessly
That he at least might not be dry—
That corn and flocks might be preserved
To one who had devoutly served.
The green corn faded on the ground,
His sheep in death were scattered nigh,
And fire and dust were looming r&und.
Then fiercely did the voice resound
Of McAdoo, who cursed the sky.
“I could forgi’, O Lord;” said he,
“Aught else Ye micht ha’ done ta me,
But not sic prodigality!”
VICTORIA.
E. D.


OP INTEREST TO THIN LADIES.
Amazing Experience of a Lady Reader
Who Says
BEST PHORMOID COMES FROM
ENGLAND.
GERMAN PRODUCT INFERIOR.
Several months ago articles appeared in
the leading scientific journals describing the
remarkable flesh-growing properties of a
new food product called phormoid, which is
said to produce wonderful results in im-
proving the figures of thin, undeveloped
women, as well as increasing the nerve force
and vitality of those who were weak, ner-
vous, and generally run down. As I
myself had been weak, nervous and terribly
thin for a number of years, I asked the
advice of my chemist, who told me that
phormoid was undoubtedly the most won-
derful concentrated food product ever known,
and advised me to try some of the standard
20-grain phormoid tablets as prepared by
the International Chemical Company of
London, the quality of which is vastly
superior to that supplied by German labora-
tories. I followed his advice, taking one
tablet before each meal, and to my astonish-
ment began to feel better at once. My
nervousness disappeared, my appetite im-
proved, I began to put on weight, and, most
. astonishing of all, my bust measurement
'decreased five inches in four weeks, and I now
llook better and feel better than I ever did
tbefore. I asked my chemist about the bust
development:, and he told me an increased
bust development always followed the use of
phormoid, and that, therefore, in spite of its
wonderful nerve-strengthening, flesh-building
and health-producing properties, it should
not be used by ladies who objected to increas-
ing the size of the bust and improving their
figures.
IMPORTANT.—In order to prove the
superiority of Phormoid prepared in their
laboratories over the German nroduct, the
International vhemical Company of London,
P.O. Box 21/59, Sydney, N.S.W., announce
that they will send a large package, as regu-
larly sold by all chemists at 6/- per box,
enough for two weeks' trial, post free to
any address in Australasia on receipt of a
post-office order for 6/-, and aaree to return
the money to anyone who is not satisfied with
tins results.*
Martin’s Fills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
810-SHOWMEN!
THERE'S onlv one BERT Biograph. We can prove
it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 Geerge
Street, Sydney.
•FOUNDED-1888
PHILLIPS * ORMONDE&O
Consu/A/np fnpmcers, A7AA>nne yJ"
one/ 7Aoc/e AJpcnAs • 17 QUEEN ST I
MELBOURNE
DUPLEX
ďf
FOR
MEN
OF
ACTION
“Petronius Earbiter”: These complaints
concerning the neglect of the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment to do any afforestation hurt me very much. I
know of at least one effort made by the high-souled
Borrowing Government, which shows that its heart,
or car, is in the right place. Up at Tuncurry the
Hardborrowers purchased, at a fearful sacrifice for
somebody, 500 acres of the finest scrub land, or
sand, you never saw. “Here,” they said, “we will
plant millions of the noble pinus insignis, and the
pinguis porous, and the lonus arboris, which shall
repiace the melancholy woods now imported for use
as butter, and jam, and biscuit boxes! ” It was a
great idea, and nobly has it come to. fruition. After
more or less “clearing” the inferior scrub off the
superior sand, the Government —which had paid Is.
per hour all round foi cutting down the scrub —had
the pinus insignis, etc., planted all over the place.
Tens of thousands of these “Tees” were brought
from the Gosford State Nursery (of course, near
Sydney) and carefully plunked into the ground, at
full union rates. When summer came, about seven
out of every 10, or, if you like it better, 7000 out of
every 10,000, died. Did that daunt anybody? Not.
a daunt! Again the State Nursery at Gosford
(which is not far from Sydney) stepped into the
sandy breach with thousands more of the trees. The
following summer about 80 out of 100, or 8000 out
of 10,000, followed their dead friends to the Land
of Touchwood. Again the Hardy Borrowers and
the Gosford State Nursery wrestled with Tuncurry,
and it is sad but true that, aided by the unfriendly
summer, Tuncurry won the third, and final, round!
A move of some miles was made. Instead of a
sand-patch covered with scrub, the Government pur-
chased (out of loan-money and at an alarming sac-
rifice) another block, covered with trees of the
genuine Old Man variety. Tiring of paying Is. per
hour, or else finding Cohen less accommodating than
usual, the Government let out the clearing to a
contractor of sanguine spirits. When within a few
feet of the tape the optimist threw in his marble!
At this stage the Government had another brilliant
thought. Prison-labor —cheap, reliable, unlikely to
yield to the blandishments of pub life (in the cir-
cumstances), and quite all right, thanks. Heaven
and the manager, and his assistants and sub-assist-
ants, and the acting-deputy-sub-assistant manager
alone know what progress is being made with this
magnificent project. But, in view of the war, and
the summer, and the delicate constitution of the Gos-
ford State Nursery lonus arboris, etc. —not to men-
tion the state of mind that the Government is in
just now —I am doubtful about the result (!) from
an afforestation view point, and (2) from a financial
aspect. Still, several worthy persons are quite
happy and comfortable over the effort.
“R.J.8.” :Re “E.J.M.’s” sheep barber who
did 304 at. Glenga.rrie (B. 22/10/T4). Big tallies
are generally an indication of a rough cut, which
accounts for so many records being put up out in
Western sheds, where pace is the first consideration.
I have seen shearers deueing them day after day in
some sheds ; I have seen the same men scarcely able
to get more than a hundred in other sheds. The best
talh r I know of was put up this year by Zimmerle
(who hails from Toowoomba way), viz., 336. The
previous best was 326, while 321 with the blades con-
stitutes a record which will stand for always, because
sheep are getting rougher and the art of “tearing it
off’’ with the sticks is fast becoming obsolete.
* * * *■
“Overseer”: While Australia has been par-
ching in places, we here (Taviuni, Fiji) have been
getting enough moisture to freshen tip the paddocks
of Slieol or even Drvberra. From January 1 up to
and inclusive of September 30, the total fall was
217.68 in. On 109 of the 273 days of that period it
drizzled more or less —mostly more. The most pro-
mising fall for any one day of 24 hours was on
September 21, when 13.70 inches alighted. The next
best was on May 23, when a mist gave us 8.64 in.
On July 3 we had 5.80 in., a good third. However,
we have still to go through the hurricane season, and
we generally get some rain then.
QUALIFIED.
BOSS: “Are yer sure yer strong enough fer the job?”
APPLICANT: " Well, I should bloomin' well think so, seei n' as how the larst cave I worked
for was bigger ’n yous, an’ I finished orf by chuckin' ’ im over the fence. ”
“Barbwire”: “E.J.M.” (B. 22/10/T4) is
in raptures over a cobber who shore 304 sheep in a
day. Let “E.J.M.” send his cobber (accompanied by
£100) out to Western Queensland, and if I can’t
mobilise at least 50 wool-hawks to shear him
blind I will forfeit my tame grandmother. The
record for a machine shearer is held by Fred
Zimmerle, who shore 336 sheep at Felton. Dan
Cooper reached 318 at a cocky’s outside Longreacli,
with the enervating North Queensland climate thrown
in against him; and Billy Pully (shot in the Boer
war) did 315 at Alice Downs some 14 years ago.
The old-established record for a blade shearer is held
by Jack Howe, of Blaclcall, who put through 321.
* * * *
“Golspie” : they were drafting a big mob
of cattle in the head station yards, and Billy, the
chief of our blackboys, got a bit “fixed” with the ter-
rible dust. He at last sat in a corner of the yard.
I hailed him: “Billy, you sick?” “Yowi boss, by
oripes, me choked; too much blurry ground jump
UP.”
“Lagani-Namo”: All South Sea Island
natives make fire this way. The operator squats
grasping a dry length of soft wood with his feet.
Then a sharpened piece of hardwood is worked
quickly to and fro with ever-increasing pace and
pressure, until fine wood-dust accumulates in the
groove. Presently this dust smoulders and is blown
into flame. Some inland Papuans have a better
method. They slit the piece of softwood, insert a
little shredded bark for tinder, and a small stone to
keep the crack open. Then a length of fine lawyer-
cane is looped under and pulled swiftly back and
forth until the friction brings the blaze. I’ve yet.
to meet the white man who can make fire by the
former method; but almost any two-handed biped
can do the trick by the latter. By the way, in case
any newehum may want to light a fire, but cannot
do so owing to all his timber being waterlogged,
he’ll find the inside bark of the ti-tree (paper-bark)
dry no matter how wet the world in general may be.
TAKING IT LIKE A MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Here amid storms do I stand, while the thunders
roll crashing around me,
And lightning licks at my hand like a dog that is
glad he has found me:
With gamp and goloshes I .wait in the midst of
War’s banging and bragging,
And mournfully note that my pants are losing their
“nap” and are “bagging.”
Poets assert I will never forget all the heroes who
perish ;
Tell the world gravely that I in my small head will
evermore cherish
Thoughts of them all! (I don’t know how the poets
keep blowing their bubbles.)
Now, just look at the snails on those plants! And
that’s only one of my troubles:
Battles and things are not nice, but they’re only a
noise in the distance ;
Besides, I have faith in the French, and the Rus-
sian and British resistance;
Guess we will come out all right—and I’m quite
well aware what my heart owes
To the fallen —but what do you think of that bed
of early tomatoes?
Here amid storms -do I stand, and the thunder is
very annoying;
But roses are splendid this year and the garden
I’m really enjoying;
I cannot take heed of it all, though I’m not devoid
of all feeling,
So read us some news from the front while this
stable manure I am wheeling.
N.S.W.
THE SUBURBANITE.
Sensitive Shandy Mann.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ¥ ’M takin' me oath to ut was niver a
more sinsitiff man than Shandy,”
-** said Flynn. “Shandy Mann was wan
iv the dreamin’, scheemin’ mountain cooloons
frim Kerry, in direct discint frim Fin Mac-
Coul V the lady Cesair, the same that
brought the 53 original Irish t’ Ireland befure
the Flood. Shandy Mann was w\an would sit
’n’ brood over the makin’ iv a shmall bir-rd
’r the grow in' iv a twig, ’n’ what the Lor-rd
mint he ut —things should concarn no Christ-
yin man wid bread the price ut is, ’n beer
t’ be provided.
“Mann had the shmall lioldin’ next be
Corcoran’s on the lift, but if ’twasn’t fer his
wife Norah, dacent woman, divil a lick
would be doin’ on the far-rm frim day t’
dar-rk. Corcoran ye’d be callin’ a manny-
sided man, ’n’ wan side to him was poul-
thry. A rare man wid hens ’n’ the like was
Johnnie Corcoran—a shly gintelman could
coax a bashful, coy pullet t’ lay ’n’ a pert
cockerel t’ put flesh to his bones for the good
eatin’ wid nothin’ more n a taste iv blarney.
“ ’Twas niver till Corcoran had his triflin’
poulthry far-rm goin’ a year that Shandy
Mann shtarted his great conthroversy wid
the hens. Walkin’ abroad wid himself wan
Sunday, takin’ thought iv the marv’less
divarsity ’n’ complexity iv things, Shandy
stepped into a thribe iv Corcoran’s hens was
takin’ the sun ’n’ diaein’ a shmall portion iv
wor-rms to the hillside.
“D’yeh know hens, sor? ’Specially thim
lar-rge, black hens wid so prodigious a pro-
fuseness iv feathers to them they do be
resemblin’ shtout matrons in fur-rs. Thim
hens is shlow ’n’ delibrit. wid a sinse iv dig-
nity, ’n’ a fine appreciation iv their just
rights ’n’ th’ rule iv the road. A rare habit
iv soliloquy goes wid thim.
“Whin Shandy Mann shtepped among thim
the eldtherly hens showed no mar-rked dis-
composure. Indade they left ut t’ Shandy
himself t’ avide treadin’ thim down. All the
same, they was none iv thim onconseious iv
the inthrusion, ’n’ sez one sober dame, sez
she sotto vice: ‘This felly’s no gintelman,’
she sez.
“Shandy Mann shtops short, ’n’ shtares
wid eyes to him round ez a cow’s. ‘What’s
ut yer sayin’ iv me cliaracther ?’ sez he.
“The middle-ageu dame has a fine air iv
preoccupation. She sort iv rustles the dust
out iv her feather boa, ’n’ sez she aside, she
sez: ‘A low ’n’ oneducate’ Irish type.’ sez
she.
“Annotiier bin iv the same set touches up
her fur-r tippit, ’n’ sez she, wid the same air
iv abstraction: ‘Frim Anthrim, I’m thinkin’.’
“You could not insult a man iv Kerry
worse didveh guess he was frim the hot
north-east cor-rner iv Hell’s self, ’n’ Shandy
Mann give a leap in the air. ‘Yer a liar,
ma’am,’ sez he, ‘’n’ him that bred yeh !’
“A tall shlip iv a pullet, wid warn iv tbim
saucy red hats is all the fashion, picked over
a bit iv a wor-rm wasn’t there, ’n’ she sez t
no wan in p'ticular, ’n‘ wid no t.krace iv
feelin* ut all: ‘The man’s an idjit-'
“Thin a gr-reat. fine roosther wid th dig-
nity av an altherman iv Dublin Town, n
wearin’ ez prolific a set iv red Dundthrearies
t.z yiv seen on anny livin’ creature dthreamily
kicked a hayseed out iv' his left whisker, n
sez he, guttural ’n’ aft his fisfct, so t say:
•Did yeh get on to the face iv him?’ he sez.
‘Lor-rd help ’n’ pity a man wid a chiv so
seered wid villa’ny.’ sez lie.. _
“Another mathron hen is mighty proud iv
her bust, rests her chin on it, ’n’ she sez fer
her own enlightenment Vno other: vv an
would do ill t’ be consortin' wid gaolbir-rds
the like iv him, I’m thinldn’.
“ ‘ ’Tis a mean man frim Kerry would rob
a church,’ mumbles the head iv wan iv oar
leadin’ Brahma fam’lies nibblin’ at a useless
pea husk. .
“Thin the whole thribe cleared their
throats, ’n’ deep down in their necks they
sez ‘lrish!’ Nothing but that wan wor-rd,
‘lrish !’ But ’tis as if ’twas the lasht wor-rd
iv conchumely ’n’ bitter dishparagment.
“Shandy Mann is hoppin’ about among the
hens wan" possesst. ’Tis a man wid ordinary
red hair be nature, but did you wor-rk him
up V excite his emotions unjuly redder his
hair gets V redder, till ut resimbles nothin’
ilse but a sunset afther there’s many fires on
the hills. ‘lrish ut is, ’n’ never a betther
nation the Lor-rd put breath in, ! n’ never a
betther Irishman walked the fair earth wid
the sun lightin’ on him,’ he sez. ‘Who'd be
heedin’ a air thy shmall thraducer wid feath-
•ers to her legs?’ sez he. T’ Hell wid yeh.
annyway !’ ’n’ he aims a wild kick iv a camel
et the nearest hen, hits a miss, ’n’ tilts up,
sthrikin’ the solid wor-rld we live in wid his
bumps iv natural love ’n’ affection, here back
iv the head.
“The hens shteps aside a piece, gom on
wid their hunt for wor-rms ’n’ thrifles -iv
seed ez if nothin’ happened, but the same is
fictitious ’n’ har-rdly intinded t’ deceive,
seein’ iv’ry hen iv the bunch is shucklin’
composedly, not that she’s enjoyin’ herself
in a manner, but merely t’ add t’ Shandy’s
dishcomposure.
“Sez a portly dame wid white garthers:
‘Didja happen t’ notice the native illigance
iv that movemint?’
“ ‘A gr-reat pity ’tis the chickens is not
here t’ se ut,’ sez the barytone, pickin’ up a
shtone absently, ’n’ dropping the same.
“ ’Tis a gifted man will tie his legs to his
neck, maybe,’ sez the lady wid the bust..
“Shandy makes wan savage lunge wid his
feet ut the dame wid th’ proportions iv
Juno, ’n’ just fetches her. The dee-corous
mathron goes over, but «he’s up in a second,
a thrifle flustered, ’n’ pullin’ down her shkirt,
‘Rude beast!’ sez she. ‘Dirthy bla’gard !’ she
sez. ‘ ’Tis what a lady would ixpict from
a hound iv Kerry fed on bacon rind ’n’ sea-
weed,’ sez she.
“Th’ majestic rooster wid th’ crimson
Donegals shifts a little out of range wid
shmall loss iv dignity, ’n’ sez he: ‘A thief iy
the wor-rld ’n’ a Kinmare tinker would take
up ar-rms agin a woman wid his feet."
“Shandy Mann is up ’n’ runnin’ rings,
s’archin’ fer weapons iv offence. He lights
on a three-foot beam would fell a bull calf,
’n’ wid his openin’ swipe shoots the fir-rsf
bass into Corcoran’s duck pool, where the
dishmantled rooster, wid his tlirowsers bust,
dthrifts towar-rds the sunset, a hopeless
wreck.
“ ‘Kinmore tinker, is ut?’ yells Shandy
Mann. ‘An ayter iv pig feed, yeh say!’ He
whacks wan et the dame wid the dishpropor-
tionit chist measuremint, ’n’ Juno shoots fer
the next block, wid her gar-mints tumbled
shameful t’ behold. ‘lrish, say yeh all!’
shnorts Shandy, ’n’ he shwipes the dame wid
the expinsiff fur-rs, ’n’ she topples over, sore
wounded ’n’ misshapen. ‘Score wan more fer
the Irish!’ sez Misther Mann, ’n’ the sar-
vices iv the barrytone bur-rd is lost t’ Cor-
coran fer ever. ‘A thrillin’ polthog fer ould
Kerry ’n’ the glory iv God,’ sez Shandy
Mann, ’n’ puts up another bounthery hit wid
the pert pullet outgrew herself, ’n’ niver was
a more ruffled bir-rd in the air seen travel-
lin’.
“Well, I’m tellin’ yeh ’tis the wonderful
great game of shindy Shandy Mann is put-
tin’ up wid them hens, ’n’ Jimmy Corcoran
runnin’ over the hill, a hoe in his hand, the
rage iv just Heavin in his hear-rt, ’n’ jisticu-
latin’ woful to behold. Iv’ry Shandy
shwings his nullah ’tis a goal fer Kerry, ’n’
broken ’n’ conthrite hens is shootin’ in all
directions et wanst. t’ be added t’ the list iv
thim that fell in battle.
“ ‘Howld yer hand, yeh murtherin’ villain!’
gasps Corcoran.
“ ‘Wan more fer the credit iv me gr-reat
gran’father,’ sez Shandy, ‘ ’n’ wan fer Fin
MacCoul was an ancesther iv mine.’
“Two more hens dthrop out iv the argy-
mint, ’n’ Corcoran gets at Shandy. I’m give
to undthershtand ’tis ez pretty a fight as has
bin seen in all Bungaree in tin year ’or
more, ’n’ there’s sore woundin’s on both
sides, but ’tis Corcoran goes down wid his
head cracked from Janewary close to Decem-
ber, ’n’ inds the scrap iv the cintury.
“ ‘Lie you there,’ sez Shandy. ‘ ’Tis a good
end for the thraither would teach his hens to
thraduce the land that bore him.’
“When I met wid Shandy afther he kim
frim Ballarat gaol, where he’d rested a
matter iv six months, sez I: ‘ ’N’ how' didjer
like it. Shandy Mann?’ ’N’ said he: ‘Well
enough,’ he said. ‘ ’Tis a fine place, gaol is,
t’ be free of fools.’”
EDDYSON.


THE NON-COMBATANTS.


S
I
“ Selayne ”
( Regd.)
The Latest
Shirting Flannel.
“ Selayne ” keeps its distinguished
appearance after repeated washing,
is guaranteed unshrinkable and
absolutely fast in color.
1
- :
Obtainable All Stores.
Every Hat is of the highest grade, ranking first in the world for Style,
Finish, Durability and Value. Wear “WOODROW’S” always.
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Lawyer Fred Young, reputedly the
wealthiest man in the S. Aus. Assembly, is
packing his bags for London and the Agent-
General’s Office. As son-in-law of the late
John Darling, wheat merchant, and Broken
Hill Prop, chairman, he is understood to
have come in for a fairly substantial sum
under dad’s will; and he also has large
pastoral interests. At 39 he will be the
youngest of the Agents-General. His de-
parture, a distinct loss to the State Legisla-
ture. will lea\a? a vacancy in the Peake
Cabinet —to be* filled by the alert Govern-
ment Whip, Captain Ritchie, who takes a
special interest in the Murray Waters
question.
W. H. WILLIAMS, Chairman, Chamber of
Commerce, Hobart, Tasmania.
About the most interesting thing concerning
James Ruse, the man who grew the first crop
of wheat in Australia (B. 5/11/T4), is the
inscription on his tombstone at Campbell-
town (N.S.W.) :
My mother reread me tenderley.
With me she took much pain. .
And when I arrived in the Coloney
I sowed the first grain.
And now with my Hevnly father
I hope for ever to remain.
Ruse was a Bodmin (Cornwall) man, who
had been sentenced as a youth to seven
years for some small offence, and on libera-
tion was given a 30-acre farm at Parramatta.
Semple, organiser for the United Federa-
tion of Labor (M.L.), has signed off, and is
leaving for Australia. The Federation has been
in trouble ever since the Waihi strike, when
its paper’s playful description of Walsh in
Auckland cost £5OO damages. More re-
cently Dixon, of Huntly, heaved in a writ
for £lOOO. This apparently wrecked the
cash-box and demoralised the whole show.
Maud McCarthy, who has got herself men-
tioned in General French’s dispatches, is as
distinguished an Australian as any at the
front. The daughter of a Sydney solicitor,
the late W. F. McCarthy, she left for Eng-
land in the early ’9o’s, and. training as
a nurse in the London Hospital, eventually
became its matron. When the Boer War
started she offered her services at the front.
The authorities turned her down on the
ground that she was too old. I She was still
on the right side of 40.) She interviewed
the heads of the War Offices, but it was no
good. Eventually she enlisted the sym-
pathy of the Princess Alexandra of Wales,
who herself equipped the determined woman
and sent her out to South Africa as her
special nurse. She remained there until the
war ended, and brought back to England the
Royal Red Cross. Only two nurses re-
ceived this decoration in that war, Miss
McCarthy and Miss Beedier, and both of
them were Australians. On the conclusion
of that unpleasantness Maud McCarthy was
unpointed matron of Aldershot, ranking as
an officer, with splendid quarters and it lib
eral salary and a uniform all her own. Now,
evidently, she is in the thick of the lighting
again—this hardy Australian whom the
muddleheads thought “too old” 13 years ago.
The cheerful, don’t-care-a-damn Superin-
tendent of Public Buildings in Adelaide,
Owen Smyth, has been getting prominent
on two lines at once. Questions have been
asked in the Assembly about his public
statement that some unnamed Government
servant “has sent information to the Govern-
ment at Berlin, of value to them —I know
it as clearly as any man can know without
being in a position to prove it.” At the
same time, the Works Department was
winding up an incident of 1911, when
Smyth simply refused to pass for payment
the £2(ioo agreed on as purchase price of the
04 acres acquired by the Verran Govern-
ment for a State brickfield. “Believing as I
did and do that the land is not worth more
than £4OO to £OOO at the outside,” wrote
Smyth, “I still decline to make any altera-
tion.” Now, after the deadlock had lasted
three years, the present Works Minister
suggests that the matter may be “consid-
ered closed,” and the Commissioner of Audit
passes the payment on the “imperfect
voucher.” As the payment had actually
been made long ago, it didn't matter much,
anyhow.
Robert Power, of Melbourne, fine old
sport, was scratched for all engagements on
the morning after Cup day. “Bob” Power,
who had turned 80 when he died, was one of
the founders of the V.R.C. in the days when
he figured occasionally as an amateur
jockey. For two seasons in the long ago he
acted as master of the Melbourne Hounds
in place of his pal, George Watson. An
expert murderer of ducks and other wild
fowl, “Bob” was addicted also to the harm-
less strenuous games, and until he was 75
or thereabouts he could beat any “muff”
youngsters at tennis. It was as a stock and
station agent—originator of the firm of
Powers, Rutherford & Co. —that he made his
pile, and he retained his connection with the
Dalgety firm to the end of his long and
lively chapter. One of his daughters married
Archie Maclaren, the cricketer; and his
brother. Herbert Power, is the other old
sport who won the V.R.C. Derby with Wilari
and was represented by Burrabadeen in the
recent V.R.C. Derby and Cup. They buried
“Bob” Power early on Oaks morning, and
all the available ancients in racing circles
gathered at the grave. It was a coincidence
that this early father of the Melbourne Cup
should have passed out on settling day.
“Garnishor” on a man to avoid:—
Earl Lody, the German spy who has just stood his
trial at the Guild Hall for an offence “unknown in
England in the history of modern law,” had bad luck
in his prosecutor. Bodkin (who is not a K.C. as
alleged by the dailies) is senior counsel to the
Treasury, and the most capable and pitiless prose-
cutor in England. The Old Bailey is run by a set of
families known as the “City Gang,” and Bodkin was
born into this circle, and has been brought up in its
traditions. He is tall, fit, sandy, with a large,
smooth, bold face and light eyes. His efficiency is
deadly. Correct law exudes from him as required.
His capacity for work is enormous. In examination-
in-ehief, most difficult of all the arts of advocacy, he
is unsurpassed in England, and in cross-examination
he stands very high. He has the gift of making
things clear to the stupidest jury, and to these
qualities he adds a fine, but highly cruel sense of
humor and a fish-like calm. Lord Cheylesmore,
Lody’s Judge, is, of course, a soldier—Major-General,
half pay. He is tall, white-moustached, and in
general appearance what the housemaid dreams of.
The British Tommy has always been Chevlesmore’s
primary interest in life. As a secondary line, he takes
on a. large number of exclusive clubs.
GOING ONE BETTER.
“ You naughty little boy to be playing so near these dangerous holes!"
“I know, mum. There was a little girl the other day tumbled inter one, an’ no one
knew she was down it, and they couldn't find her anywhere until the man came
to work next morning , and then he druv his spade right into ’er!"
Lieutenant J. Lyng, who srot out the first
Government Gazette at Rabaul on October
15, was formerly a Norwegian army otlicer.
He came to Melbourne some years back and
started and edited a Scandinavian monthly.
A linguist as well as a journalist, he helped
Captain Travers to explain to the Kaiser’s
representatives at Friedrich Wilhelmshafen
that Australia had come there to stay.
News filters through that one of Sir
Douglas Haig’s brigadiers in that fierce en-
counter with the foe at Mons was General
Davies. A surveyor by profession, he
started soldiering 20 years ago with the
Mounted Rifles at Hawera (M.L.). When
the South African war started he went out as
a captain in M.L.’s first contingent, served
with great distinction, and came back brevet-
colonel, with two medals and seven clasps.
Later, he was Inspector-General of the M.L.
home forces and a member of the Military
Council; but, owing to his inconvenient
habit of addressing fierce memoranda to the
Government in condemnation of the volun-
tary system of service, Ward and Co.
reckoned Davies would be all the better for
“a course of training at Aldershot.” So to
England he went, and within a year had
been given a brigade. He is “one of
French’s men”—they rode together to Kim-
berley—and is reckoned among the smartest
mounted infantry leaders in the army.
“Jeames”: How the flower of England’s
chivalry, as the poet would put it, is being
cut down! Last week, before opening the
current batch of Daily Mails, I wrote, ex-
perimentally, the names of half a dozen
guardsmen and cavalry officers whom I had
known, and another half-dozen whose names I
had known. A subsequent study of the casualty
lists showed that the whole 12 of them had
been either killed or wounded. In one issue
alone _ 27 Guards officers were listed.
Practically every Australian family with an
officer son at the front is in mourning. A
Richmond, a Landale, a Dalgleish and two
Lucas-Tooths are dead, and young Lassetter,
(son of Sydney’s store-owning Colonel) was
wounded immediately he went into action.
As Russia, France, Belgium, Servia, Austria
and Germany have suffered similarly, the
matrimonial outlook is black from the girl’s
standpoint.
The centenarian (who, in this case, also
embodies the Waterloo veteran) was bound
to turn up once more. So it came to pass
that a retired Russian warrior, aged exactly
103, tramped exactly 100 miles with a view
to re-enlisting. These very aged men walk
wonderful distances, but they never bring
their birth certificates with them. The
wolves eat their documents on the road.
Walter Bevan goes up to the N.S.W. Dis-
trict Court bench vice the late Judge
Gibson, with wbom he travelled for years.
Gibson had been Windeyer’s associate;
Bevan was Innes’s. At the Bar Gibson
made the greater splash. Bevan, admitted
at the same time as Shand and Gannon,
K.C.’s, was never a conspicuous advocate.
But he had a clear head; also it is safe to
say that in his long career as a Crown
Prosecutor he never knowingly did an unfair
thing. The law was an afterthought in his
case. Before he came to Australia he was
in a “factor’s” office, a factor being a per-
son who relieves the landlord of the whole
of his job except the handling of the rent;
and his early year or so in Australia was
spent jackerooing.
ADRIAN KNOX, K.C., addresses the Court.
It was a bitter disappointment when the
reported (for the tenth time) death of Gen-
eral Yon Kluck was contradicted for the
eleventh time. There is no reason to sup-
pose that he is worse than the rest of his
tribe, but he was the cause of a pun which
was a greater sin than the burning of Lou-
vain. . When he was first killed a buffoon
arose in a Melbourne suburban music-hall
and told a sixpenny audience that a man
whose kluck was so bad as that shouldn’t go
to war.
THE FLYING GERMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A wondrous man to get around
Tliis German Kaiser is.
He takes half Europe at a bound—
I see him fairly whiz.
He breakfasts out at Warsaw, and
Has lunch beside the Belgian strand,
And then to Calais leads the band.
1 hear of him with frenzied grin
The Russian smiting in the east;
Ten seconds later in Berlin
He is orating at a feast,
Observing how at Heaven’s behest
He wallops England and the rest.
Next hour lie's whooping in the west.
I've known him e'en to occupy
Two places simultaneously.
I can’t say how it's done or why
Unless he omnipresent be.
To-day lie’s starting out to shell
Across the Straits. If wishes tell
To-morrow he will be in—Berlin, of course.
VICTORIA.
SILAS.


r
...jsa
'm
A
1
/
m
/
m
a
/
IS
r
N
:m
il
I
>■■■■■
.
A
X*
/;
/
« \
/'//.//// /
It’s Purely a Matter of Taste!
OF course, in Men’s Wear there are many individual likes when it comes to clothes and
patterns, but as you have a practically unlimited range to select from, there is absolutely no
excuse to refrain from getting an Austral Suit for Xmas, because we guarantee absolute satis-
faction in cut, quality, finish and wear. Send as soon as possible for patterns if you want your
Suit before Xmas. We quote: —
Austral Suits to Measure-63/-, 70/-, 75/-; Hand-made—B4/-, 90/-, 95/-, 105/-, 115/-
Send for General Catalogue, 120 pages, of Everything for Men’s and Boys’ Wear. All Orders Carriage Paid in Australia,
GOWING
“PIONEER DISTRIBUTORS OF AUSTRALIAN GOODS"
484, 486, 488 & 490 George Street; & 3,5, 7,9, 11, 13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.


IRRIGATION.
We carry Large Stocks of Steam- and
Power-driven Reciprocating Pumps.
Also Large Stocks of Centrifugal Pumps suitable for Irrigation Work.
Cash or Terms.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House.
49 Clarence St., Sydney
Overall, McCray, Ltd.
44 Campbell Street
SYDNEY.
SPECIALTY:
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Large Stocks also on hard—Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings
Sheep end Cattle Troughing, Pumps, &c. Send for Catalogue.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
(Sydney) :
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. t'erves. serves.*
£ £ £ Ai
Sept., ’O7. . 118,057 10p.c.= 110,000 8,057 129,016
£75,000 of reserves capitalised . . 354,016
Mar.. 'OB.. 134,782 10p.c.= 124,037 10,745 364,761
Sept., ’OB.. 146,493 10 „ ~124,885 21,608 386,369
£ 350,000 of reserves capitalised .. 36,369
Mar., ’09.. 162,632 10p.c.= 142,500 20,132 56,501
Sept., ’09.. 168,881 10 „ ~142,500 26,381 82,882
Mar., ’lO.. 175,590 10 „ ~142,500 33,090 115,972
Sept., TO.. 196,714 10 „ ~142,500 54,214 170,180
£150,000 of reserves capitalised- . . 20,186
Mar., ’ll.. 207,428 10p.c.= 150,000 57,428 77,614
Sept., ’ll.. 210,830 11 „ ~165,000 45,830 123,444
Mar., T 2. . 225,601 124 „ ~187,500 38,101 161,545
Sept., T 2. . 229,629 124,, ~187,500 42,129 203,674
Mar.. T 3. . 233,530 124 „ ~187,500 46,030 249,704
£250,000 of reserves capitalised ..) room
Sept., T 3. . 255,440 124 p.c.= 203,125 52,315 /
Mar., T 4. . 263,761 124 „ ~203,125 60,636 112,655
Sept., T 4. . 256,361 124 „ ~203,125 53,236 165,891
‘Exclusive of £500,000 Replacement Fund.
“After having carefully considered the situa-
tion,” the directors "feel no hesitation in
recommending the usual dividend and bonus”
- —the div. is 10 p.c. and the bonus 24 p.c.
That’s the difference between being, say, a
sugar-grower and a spelter-miner. The
sugar-grower has his market in Australia.
Some day, perhaps, he will have to go afield,
and there is no visible reason why he
shouldn’t succeed; but so far he has only
just managed to grow enough for Australian
consumption. On the other hand, the spel-
ter (zinc) producer has no market here
worth mentioning. The manufactures which
consume the metal are all on the other side
of the world. So as soon as the war knocked
the foreign factory out of gear, the Austra-
lian spelter mine had to shut up, and the
miner started to howl for relief work. Yet
there are some people who still tell the
miners that. Protection and the building of
factories in Australia is no good to them !
The war will put money into this co.’s
pockets. The co., besides refining sugar in
Australia, is interested largely as a grower
in Fiji, and last season’s crop, after supply-
ing Maoriland. gave a good surplus for ex-
port. Some of this was placed in Hong-
kong and Vancouver. Recently sales at
very fine prices have been made in England,
the very fine prices being of course due to
the fact that *the beet-sugar business of
Germany and Austria has been knocked sky-
high. For next season prospects are excel-
lent, both in Queensland and in Fiji, and it
looks as though there will be another con-
siderable surplus. But even if the co.
should not have the goods to sell at war
prices abroad, it is more than possible that
war prices elsewhere will be a strong enough
lever to lift prices in Australia. Already,
in fact, the Queensland Necessary Commodi-
ties Control Commission has listened to the
plausible story that Queensland planters are
entitled to get some benefit out of the high
prices ruling in the world’s markets, and a
rise of 255. per ton in this co.’s selling price
has been recommended. Application has
also been made to southern Commissions to
follow suit. Without here discussing
whether it’s a fair thing or not. Tiie
Bulletin merely remarks that the price will
probably go up—in the interests, of course,
of the poor planter. But the poor planter
won’t so completely clean up the plate that
there will be not a crumb left for the poor
refining co. So far as this co. is concerned
the war will therefore work out this way:
For its home trade it may get more;
for some of the trade it certainly will
get more. And if Australia can’t buy all the
output at the probably higher price, there
unquestionably will be a foreign market at
exceptionally good quotations.
Stocks of sugar on September 30 were
valued at £614,808. As at Sent.. 1909, the
figure was £244.329; 1912, £306,665. There
is over £300,000 more than usual to sell;
and the chances are, with a clamorous
market ahead, there is a serviceable profit
coming from that lot. Whether the co. will
show it remains to be seen. A few years
ago it frankly confessed that it had been
stuffing away Fiji profits, and one of the
numerous lots of bonus shares was paid for
out of the hidden reserve thus disclosed. If
more than enough profit to provide for denre-
ciation is being written off —that is to say.
stuffed away—it only more firmly assures
the uninterrupted payment of the 124 p.c.
dividend.
■X- * * *
The Bank of Australasia
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
Oct., ’05.. 137,451 12 p.c.= 96,000 11,000 1,267,555
Apl., ’06.. 137.795 12 ~ ~ 96.000 12,000 1.297,350
Oct., ’06.. 153,512 14 ~ ~112,000 12,000 1,326.862
Apl.. ’07.. 227.463 14 ~ ~112,000 15.000 1.427,325
Oct., ’07.. 188,750 14 ~ ~112,000 18,000 1,486,075
Apl., 'OS.. 212,029 14 ~ ..112.000 20,000 1,566,104
Oct.. ’OB.. 187,691 14 .. ~112,000 15,000 1,626,795
Apl.. ’09.. 174,111 14 .. ..112,000 12,000 1,676,906
Oct., ’09.. 177,566 11 .. ~112,000 15,000 1,727,472
Apl., TO.. 193,722 16 .. ~128,000 IS,OOO 1,775,194
Oct. TO.. 198,531 16 ~ ~128.000 20,000 1,825,725
Apl.. ’ll.. 198.460 16 ~ ~128,000 20,000 1,876,185
Oct., ’ll.. 205,889 17 ~ ~136,000 20,000 1.926,074
Apl.. ’12.. 208,171 17 .. ..136.000 20,000 1,978,245
Oct., ’12.. 216,303 17 „ ~136,000 20,000 2,038,548
Apl.. ’l3. . 206.644 17 ~ ~136.000 20,000 2,089,192
Premiums on new shares, £600.000. . 2.689,192
Oct., T 3. . 220.977 17 p.c = 170.000 20,000 2.720.169
Apl., ’l4. . 233,897 17 „ ~170,000 2,784,066
Lots of things have happened since those
accounts were made up ; and it isn’t much
use dwelling now on the figures in the last
line. The shareholders will probably look
at the profit—£233,B97—and reflect that it’s
a long 1 way from there to the £170.090 which
the 17 p.c. div. calls for; and they have
every right to get comfort out of that. A
17 p.c. div. no doubt takes a lot of earning,
and on the off-chance one is inclined to say
that no concern can expect to pay it in
times of great national stress. But there’s
this to remember: while the capital on
which the div. is paid is only £2,000,000. the
funds which are actually earning the money
amount to £4.784,066: and, though the
greater part of the reserves of £2.784,066
consists of undivided profits. £600.000 was
thrown into the heap by shareholders only
last year, when new capital was issued at a
big premium. The 17 p.c. is therefore con-
siderably less affluent than it looks ; and the
idea of paying such a dividend in a crisis
isn’t so preposterous as it sounds. Many a
concern with no reserves at all and a big
illusory goodwill item among the assets will
think it is badly treated if it can't pay 6 or
7 p.c.: and a 17 p.c. div. in the case of
the ’Asia is no more uncalled for than a 6
or 7 p.c. div. in such a case as that.
For this bank has something more than
tlic* reserves which its accounts show, and
which consequently the table shows. Some
further figures will help that argument :
Apl., ’l3. Ap1.,’14.
Notes.. .. £188,472 £195,887 Inc. £7,415
Bills, etc. .. 2.751,471 3,045,714 Inc. 294,243
Deposits . . 15,515,035 19,259,977 Inc. 744,942
Liquid assets.. 5,575,078 8,910,843 Inc. 335,765
Advances .. 17,192,666 18,527,117 Inc. 1,334,451
Premises .. 21,626 17,684 Dec. 3,942
“Premises, £17,684”; and the directors
apologise for not making the customary
specific appropriation towards wiping out the
item altogether. Six months previously the
account stood at £2241; so that in this half-
year alone over £15,000 has been spent on
premises. It is fairly safe to say that not
much short of that has been spent, as an
average, for .10 years past; and 10 years
ago the premises were valued at £820,000.
Not only this £320.000 but all that has been
spent meantime has been wiped out by
writing off profits; and the full value of
the premises (including office properties for
letting) is now a reserve which does not
appear in the published accounts at all.'
From that line alone one may judge what
policy has been adopted. What inner re-
serves there are altogether this paper doesn’t
know; but they must be sufficient to provide
for a lot of war-wastage among tin l
£18,527,117 of advances, including bills re-
ceivable. There was a time when it looked
as though this and other banks doing a big
business in London might be hard hit with
German commercial paper. The British
Government, however, authorised the Bank
of England to discount these bills; and the
losses will fall on the nation instead of the
individual banks and bill-discounters.
Of the liquid assets of nearly £9 000.000,
representing over 40 p.c. of the liabilities,
£4.886.860 was in coin, bullion and Govern-
ment notes, another £2.890,600 was at call
and short notice, and the balance < £1,683,376)
in British and India Government securities
“and other investments.” And it is still
open to the bank to greatly extend its re-
sources, increasing its holding of Australian
notes, by lodging a sovereign for every £8
drawn in paper. For the extra £2 thus
secured the bank will, of course, have to
pay interest; and for the present it probably
sees no reason why it should. On the
figures in these accounts there certainly is
no reason why it should. All the same, it is
satisfactory to know that there is this line
of defence to fall back upon if the need
should arise. If any depositor ever had the
shadow of a suspicion that his money
wouldn’t be ready for him when he called,
the doubt should be chased away by the
fact that the bank has this reserve store of
legal tender which it hasn’t even tapped.
* * * *
Tooth and Co., Ltd., brewers, etc., Syd-
ney : —•
Net To Rc- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £. & £
Mar., 1907.. 45,156 8 p.c.= 36,000 9,156 191,844
Sept., 1907.. 53,889 10 ~ „ 45,000 8.889 200,733
Mar., 1908.. 75,071 10 „ ~ 45,000 30,071 230,804
Sept., 1908.. 62,904 10 „ „ 45,000 17,904 248,708
Mar., 1909.. 75,372 10 „ „ 45,000 30,372 279,080
Sept., 1909.. 64,123 10 „ „ 45,000 19,123 298,203
Mar., 1910.. 78,382 10 „ „ 45,000 33,382 331,585
Sept., 1910.. 71,330 10 „ „ 45,000 26,330 357,915
Transferred to Capital, £lOO,OOO .. 257,915
Mar., 1911. .107.833 10 p.c.= 50.000 57.833 315,748
Sept., 1911.. 99,732 10 „ „ 50,000 49,732 365,480
Mar., 1912. .124,403 10 „ „ 50,000 74,403 439,883
Transferred to Capital, £lOO.OOO .. 339,883
Sept., 1912.. 95,303 10 p.c.= 55,000 40,303 380,186
Assets written up, £350,000 .. .. 730,186
Transferred to Capital, £550,000 .. 150,186
Ord. Pref.
("10 p.c. 1 f 6p.e.)
Mar., 1913.. 86,126 55,000'16.500 14,626 194,812
(8 p.c.)
Sept., 1913.. 80,613 55,000 22,000 3.613 198,425
(10 p c.)
Mar.. 1914. .169,062 55,000 27,500 86,562 284.987
Transferred to Capital, £137,500 .. 147.487
Sept., 1914.. 99,901 61,875 27,500 10,526 158,013
There is a big difference between the first
and the last lines of that table. To begin
with the profit now is twice as great as it
was seven years ago. Whether the real,
profit was disclosed at that time The
Bulletin doesn’t know. It is possible that
certain contingencies were then being pro-
vided for. Subsequently, at any rate, various
undisclosed accumulations were brought
to light and were recently used to pay for
bonus shares. However, the seven-year
period 1898-1904 ought to give fair data for
comparison; and there never was in that
time a half-year in which £44,000 profit was
shown. The average was under £38.000.
The question is, how much of the profit of
the past few years lias been due to abnormal
conditions ? Or, in this way, if you like—
was the period 1698-1904 more fairly repre-
sentative than the past seven years? What
reason have we got for expecting that the
next seven years will show 24 times greater
profits than the seven years 1898-1904?
And the present divs. can t be paid
unless the profits are 34 times greater
than they were in 189 S-1904. Looked at
that wav, the sky has a fair-sized cloud in
it. Of course there’s the extra population.
X. S. Wales in 10 years lias added approxi-
mately one-fourth to its throats and the
metropolitan district approximately one-
third. That is substantial; but it will not
naturally account for -i times the profit.
Also there is the community’s higher wages.
Recent rates of pay in some directions have
been fictitious, the result of a bogus demand
created by extravagant borrowing. _ But.
while things may right themselves in this
respect, the general standard of wages is
going to be higher than it used to be. And
more pay means more beer —so much more
beer that the extra demand far more
than counterbalances the extra wages which
the co itself has to pay. Finally, this
co. has more interest-earning funds than it
used to have :—•
Sept., 1904. Sept., 1914.
Liabilities .. ..4:30,845 4146,866
Assets: —
Breweries, etc. .. 630,238 1,347,893
Book debts . . . . 249,326 224,263
Stock . . . . 94,393 189,854 .
Liquid assets .. 155,399 326,745
The increase in the total of breweries, etc., is
no doubt to some extent due to revaluation
and consequent writing-up. Still there cer-
tainly have been purchases of rent-producing
properties, and there are also £171,000 more
deposits, Government stock, etc. All this
helps to swell the income compared with
that of IS9S-1904. So it is fair to say that,
given equal conditions of prosperity, Tooth's
are going to make considerably more profit
than they did from ISOS to 1904. Oil the
other hand, it seems equally certain that
the profits of the past seven years have been
abnormal. And it seems highly probable
that the profits of the next few years may
be rather less than normal. In that case,
the maintenance of a 10 p.c. div. oil the 0
p.c. pref. shares is by no means an assured
thing.
* # * *
Nicholson and Co. Ltd. (Sydney),
who sell instruments for making musical and
other noises, etc.: —
Writ*
ten To lie- Ue*
Profits. Dividends. Oif. serves, serves.
£ £ £ X. £
Mar., ’09.. 3489 10 p.e,= 3001 380 108 5,720
Mar., 'lO.. 6463 10 „ „ 3446 201 2816 8,536
Sept., ’lO.. 4424 10 „ „ 2486 380 1552 10,088
Premiums on new shares, £ 2450 .. 12,538
Mar., ’ll.. 6655 10 p.c.= 2876 1612 2167 14,705
Premiums on new shares, C 2960 . . 17,665
Sept., ’ll.. Sl5l 10p,C.= 3968 4183 21,848
Premiums on new shares. £ 4016 .. 25,864
Mar., ’12.. 7241 10 p.c.= 5675 956 610 26,474
Sept., ’12.. 7773 Nil 7773 34,247
Mar., '1.3.. 7302 74p.c.= 5117 2185 36,432
Sept., ’13.. 8653 71 „ „ 5259 3394 39,826
Mar.., ’14.. 6365 71 ~ .. 5248 1117 40,943
Sept., ’14.. 5021 Nil 5021 45,964
War, of course; complicated, perhaps, by
drought. This co. gets it in three places.
(1) There is the stoppage of new business.
The public will buy bacon and boots; but
it: isn’t the time when there’s any plunging
in pianos. (3) —but we ought to get this
table in first: —
Liabilities.
Mar.,’o9. Sept.,’l3. Mar.,’l4. Sept.,’l 4.
Capital. . .. £29,616 £140.233 £140,233 £140,233
Sundry creditors 16,659 59,995 64,903 50,491
Assets.
Stock .. .. 22,168 57,593 60,525 57,241
Sundry debtors 30,729 180,498 185)003 178,498
Plant, etc. ... 2,200 6,424 5,835 5.555
Cash and sundries 460 1,299 813 1,095
"•Sundry debtors, £178,498,” or very nearly
the full amount of capital and reserves com-
bined. And of the total £107,737 is owing
to the co. on time-payment sales. Fortu-
nately a little over two years ago the man-
agement reduced the maximum t.p. term to
three years, apd required a deposit of at
least 10 p.c. On the great bulk of the
instruments "hired” out on t.p. a very sub-
stantial amount has therefore been paid off;
and, though the co. will no doubt have to
make concessions, there shouldn’t be any
large number of pianos thrown back into
stock. Further, there hasn’t been any great
and sudden slump in employment and earn-
ings ; hence, as might be expected, payments
are being kept up satisfactorily. Later on
things may be much worse. But by that
time the co. will be nicely on velvet so far
as bargains made prior to the war are con-
cerned ; and since the war it presumably
hasn’t made any without being dead-sure
about the payments. On the whole, then,
the co. won’t suffer seriously from bad debts.
(3) The co., which dealt very largely in
German pianos, found its supplies cut off,
and hurried a man off to the United States
to buy. This, of course, means extra direct
expense ; and to get the public to buy com-
paratively unknown makes means indirect
expense. For a time, at any rate, it, will
take a lot of costly arguing to get
Australians to buy any but Australian
and British pianos. While trade isn’t
going to be good, it is, then, going to be
rather expensive. In these circumstances,
and in view of the co.’s pretty heavy lia-
bilities (including £38,429 of an overdraft),
the directors did a wise thing in passing the
dividend. They will be very lucky if it is
the only one which they should in prudence
pass.
* * * *
Aerated Bread Co. (Sydney), which
began with £17,905 of its capital represented
by goodwill:—-
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
Apr., 19X0.. —t £17,965
Sept., 1910..£2347 6 p.c. = £lO5O £428 17,096
Mar., 1911.. 3384 8 „ „ 1400 228 15.340
Sept., 1911.. 3861 10 „ „ 1750 553 13,782
Mar., 1912.. 3461 10 ~ „ 1750 439 12,510
Sept., 1912.. 3296 10 „ „ 1750 228 11,192
Mar.. 1913.. 2444 8 „ „ 1400 228 10.376
Sept., 1913.. -2676 8 „ „ 1400 187 9.287
Mar., 1914.. 1648 6 „ .. 1050 1187 9.876
Sept., 1914.. 560 Nil 187 9,497
During the half-year Baumann’s Cafe, which
had fallen into the palsied hands of the now-
defunct Harts. Ltd., was bought by the
A.B.C. for £5OOO. that money being paid for
“lease, goodwill and plant,” it is said. As
the goodwill item iu the accounts is the same
as it was six months ago, The Bulletin
takes leave to doubt whether anything at all
was given for goodwill. Probably about
£l5OO was paid for the lease and the balance
for plant and a few trifles of stock. The
amount shown as written off for the half-
year is really rent in another form —the
amount necessary to write off the leasehold
asset within the currency of the lease. A
similar amount was written off as at Sept.,
1913; so it appears that the new Baumann
leasehold has not been written down at all
this half-year. The new purchase has added
to the co.’s debts :
Sept., Sept., March, Sept.,
1911. 1913. 1911. 1911-
Cash and book debts L 10,109 £728 £7OB £852
Sundry creditors, etc. 3,433 11,361 11,505 16,611
Surplus . . £6,676
Deficiency .. £10,633 £10,797 £15,759
That's not at all cheerful. The capital is
£35,000; and this is how it is represented r
Capital .. .. .. : . £35,000
Cash and book debts.; ;. £852
Stocks . . . . .. 4,457
Plant . . . . .. . . 14,875
Freehold n . * . i 17,000
Sundries , > it • ■ 986
£38,170
Less liabilities . . 16,611
21,559
Capital represented by froth and fluff.. £13,441
The more or less tangible assets represent
325. 3d. per share; but, while the value of
some of them is problematical, the size of the
debenture and other debt is a dead-sure
reality. Especially for a concern whose
Profits have been rapidly fading the liabili-
ties are a very grave matter. In fact, if
things don’t improve they are liable to be a
funereal matter.
* * ♦ *
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson and
Co., druggists, etc, (Sydney) :
To He- He-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Feb,, 1907.. £6,390 iO p.B. = £6,000 £390 £3,886
Aug,, 1907 . , 6,730 10 ,-, „ 6,000 730 4,596
Feb., 1908 . , 6,198 10 ;i ,; 6,000 198 4,794
Aug., 1908.. 8,232 10 6,000 2232 7,026
Feb,, 1909 . . 10,780 15 „ ~ 9,000 1780 8,806
Aug., 1909 , , 11,2i4 15 „ „ 9,000 2214 11,020
Feb., 1910.. 11,020 15 ,* „ 9,000 2020 13,040*
Aug., 1910., 11,016 15 i; ~ 9.000 2016 15,056
Febij 1911.. 11,085 15 „ ~ 9,000 2085 17,141
Aug,, 1911.. i 1,988 15 ~ „ 9,000 2988 20,129
Feb., 1912 . . 16,033 25 ~ ~ 15,000 1033 21.162
Aug., 1912.. 14,634 20 „ „ 12,000 2634 23,796
Feb., 1913 . . 16,340 20 ~ ~ 12,000 4340 28,136
£30,000 of reserves transferred to capital
Aug., 1913. . 18,373 15 p.c. = 13,500 4873 3,009
Feb., 1914.. 20,601 15 ~ „ 13,500 7101 10,110
Aug., 1914.. 17,540 15 ~ „ 13,500 4040 14,150
“Stock on hand, plant, fixtures, etc.,” are
valued at £80,352. A lot, of course, depends
on the liver of the man who takes stock.
An unfriendly liver or two or three un-
friendly livers might easily put the mer-
chandise at a few thousands less than it is
worth, in which ease the disclosed profit
would be below the true mark. On the
other hand, a particularly active and joyous
liver might inflate profits to the same extent.
It is significant that in 1909, when the profits
were about £20,000 a year, the stock, etc.,
was valued at £83,013. Now, with much
bigger profits, which might reasonably be
taken to mean larger stocks, the latter are
valued at only £80.352. That doesn’t look
like inflation; it looks rather as if stocks*
etc., have been written down out of undis-
closed profits. The co. has had a brilliant
career. But, on the look of things, the next
few years won’t be quite so iridescent; for
when domestic finances are rocky, the boil
on the back of the neck and the touch of
indigestion won’t receive anything like the
attention they’ve been getting, and the popu-
larity of the soda-fountains (which the big
drug-stores have been going in for) will ease
off.
The accounts don’t divulge a great many
of the co.’s secrets. However, they tell
this much: —
Aug., ’O9. Aug., ’i4;
Liabilities .. £5,365 £28,835
Assets other than stock and plant 82,372 i 56,130
Surplus assets as above ..£57,007 £127,300
Between those two dates £30,000 of new
capital was got in. So, after paying a divi-
dend running up to 25 p.c., only a miserly
£40,293 has been visibly provided by the
business in five years. Naturally one would
suspect a co. that can do that of taking all
sorts of risks with its money. But against
a capital of £lBO,OOO there' is £119,240 in
freehold premises (chiefly citv and suburbs),
and £17,345 is in cash. As regards security,
capital is therefore very well placed. It is
almost too much to hope that, when condi-
tions have steadied down, capital thus in-
vested can continue to give the old return.
The margin of profit beyond the 15 p.c. div.
is, however, so wide that the latter is not
yet in obvious danger.
Broken Hill Block 10, one of the
Barrier silver-lead-zinc propositions:—
Profit. Divs. Profit. Divs.
Sent., 04 £11,090 Nil Sept., ’lO £15,243 £15,000
Mar., 05 20,438 Nil Mar., ’ll 28,991 10.000
Sept., ’O5 114,340 £15,000 Sept., ’ll 11,479 10,000
Mar., ’O6 46,804 60,000 Loss.
Sept., ’O6 49,625 30,000 Mar., ’l2 8,851 10,000
Mar., ’O7 61,945 55,000 Profit.
Sept., ’O7 65,786 50,000 Sept., ’l2 36,049 10.000
Mar., ’O.B 12,256 30,000 Mar., ’l3 16,861 20.000
Sept., ’OB 22,080 s,ooo#Sept, ’l3 37,481 20,000
Mar., ’O9 39,284 10,000|Mar., ’l4 17.467 30,000
Sept., ’O9 28.844 20,000 j Loss.
Mar., ’lO 3,422 20,000 Sept., ’l4 4,692 12,500
On working account there was last half-year
a profit of £388; depreciation and provision
for income tax and royalty turn that into
the loss shown above. Still it’s hardlv a
fair thing to put it that way. When tin: eo.
got notice from its ore-buyers that contracts
were suspended it kept the mill going as
long as there was any room in the concen-
trate bins. Then it decided to keep develop-
ment going in a pretty large way. These
men—about one-fourth of the full staff-
have been bringing in no revenue; and it
isn t the habit of this co. to charge develop-
ment up to capital account. So there is
really four months’ revenue and six months’


The Personnel of an
EXECUTOR
and TRUSTEE
is a very serious matter for a Testator’s Widow
and Children if the best selection is not made.
The wisest course is to appoint
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (LIMITED)
which, having had twenty-eight years’ experience,
apd employing an Expert Staff, is much to be
preferred to any private Trustees, no matter
how trustworthy.
A Booklet giving full particulars as to
the Company’s Methods and Charges
will be sent on application.
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
K. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Asst. Mgr.
'EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Acconutodation in Victoria.
“Pioneer” people ought to know everything that
makes for 100 per cent, efficiency in pulley pulling.
They do, too. For, behind every foot of “Pioneer”
leather belting is over half a century of “know
how.” Every length of “Pioneer” is made from the
centre cut of a flawless Australian ox hide. It is
“Pioneer” tanned and expertly strained and cut to a
uniform thickness, properly joined and securely
stitched or riveted. The “Pioneer” people seem will-
ing to prove “Pioneer” the best. They offer to
send a length of “Pioneer” at their expense, and
guarantee to replace it if it fails through defect of
material or make up. The Imperial, State and
Federal Governments have “Pioneer” as their
pulley drivers, and there are miles of “Pioneer” in
use in thousands of private plants. Ask the nearest
“Pioneer” office to send you the trial length to-day.
“Pioneer” is made only by J. C. Ludowici & Son
Ltd., “Pioneer” Works, 117 York Street, Sydney,
(opp. Q. Y. Markets). Sold in Victoria by Geo.
Bussell P’t’y, Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne;
South Australia: J. McKell, Timpson Street, Pot t
Adelaide; Queensland: Queensland Machinery Co.
Ltd., Brisbane; W. Australia: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth; Broken Hill, Geo. C. Demp-
ster, Argent Street.*
* * * *
C. A. Parsons k Co. Ltd., Newcastle-on-T.vne, are
now making their geared turbines whereby the
Parsons’ Steam Turbine may he geared to a slow-
running dynamo, pump, etc. Sets up to 4000 k.w.
are already running, and a large geared turbo pump-
ing set is shortly arriving for the Metropolitan Board
of Water Supply and Sewerage, Sydney. High
efficiency is secured and the economy of the high-
speed turbine is still maintained. The Union
steamer Maherio has recently been re-engined and fitted
with geared turbines, and numerous other boats ai;e
now running. Sole agents. William Adams and Com-
pany Limited, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and
Perth.*
* * * *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. Gd. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to Cs. 3d. per
cub. yard slacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. —a saviny of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow lCin, x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [2
* * * #
Extract from The Policy-Holder, London, Novem-
ber 26, 1913: —“The Colonial Mutual has long had
the reputation of being one of the most enterprising
and ambitious of life assurance institutions, and to
be enterprising and ambitious is to the modern mind
so very much preferable to being inert and hyper-
cautious that the Australian office may well secure the
respectful consideration of many persons for the com-
modities it offers because of its up-to-date pushfulness
alone. Only 40 years old—almost a youngster com-
pared with some of our ancient offices—the Colonial
Mutual has, from the commencement of its career
pressed forward with uncommon determination and
energy. Its growth has been remarkable.”* [7
* * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is practically necessary
for the conveyance of aoid liquids. Wood is proof
against the chemical aetion of the aoid itself or its
fumes. Catalogue from The Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., contractors to all State Governments, 57
York Street, Sydney (head office).*
* * * *
Mine managers interested in simple economical
power should communicate with R. Hornsby k Sons
Ltd., of Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane, who have
already installed a large number of their Suction Gas;:
Engines in various mines, which have obtained re-
sults exceeding all expectations, in some instances as
much as 20 h.p. has been developed at a cost of Id.
per hour for fuel.* [3:
J. Malcolm Newman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson, Street,,
Sydney.*
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Ilassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.*
* * » »
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, 'balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
PETROLEUM.—George D. Meudell, of 8 Scott’s:
Court, Melbourne, requires boring options or leases,
over likely oil areas in Australia. Will give liberal
terms. *
Road Graders, McCnlly Gyratory Crushers, Convey
ing and Elevating Machinery, “Foden” Steam Motoi
Waggons, Concrete Mixers, Ditching Machines etc
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER k CO., Svdnev.*
Mine managers, when requiring new Steam:
Boileis, are invited to communicate with Babcock
and Wilcox, Ltd., who have supplied their Patent
Safety Water-tube Rollers to the majority of leading,
mines in Australia.*
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents;;
obtained. Collison k Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write-
us for Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayehs, Mine Managers and Prospectors write-
to If. B. SiLBERBERG and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,.
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh : hand sample grinders to ■
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensiti\ T e to -
1/13000 grain: prospectors’ balances to 1/1000;
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination .
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
expenditure in these accounts. As to the
future—who knows? Not that it was going
to be much of a future in Block 10’s case,
anyhow. That co.’s future is nearly all
behind it. No estimate is given now of the
ore reserves. Eighteen months ago there
were 220,800 tons, the manager said; and
they have done splendidly if the new ore
developed lias equalled the old ore extracted.
That would give little more than a couple
of years’ supply at the old rate of extrac-
tion. And the chance of picking up any
considerable quantity of new ore is _very
poor. Fortunately the co. lias £81,87S of
liquid and semi-liquid assets in hand in
excess of liabilities. For some time past it
has been drawing on its old stocking to pay
dividends, and meanwhile it has been sniffing
round to find a new mine. It had no luck
in Tasmania; lately it lias had its manager
up in Papua.
The London metal market opened on
Monday, after being closed for three months.
Quotations were fairly satisfactory, though
that was largely due to the stoppage of
supplies. Some comparisons :
Mid-July. Nov. 9.
Lead .. .. £lB 17 6 £lB 10 0
t opper . . 61 5 0 62 10 0
Tin .. .. 144 5 0 143 0 0
Spelter .. 21 5 0 24 5 0
Silver . . .. 2 0J 1 11
In several cases the present quotation is
admittedly “nominal.”
* * * *
Melbourne and Sydney daily papers report
that officers with aimed guards last Sunday
made a call on the premises of all the big
Australian cos. working industrial metals.
The Broken Hill Prop., Mount Lyell, Mount
Morgan, and North and South Broken Hill
were among those who had the pleasure of
entertaining the visitors. In particular the
visitors wanted to know anything there is
to know about contracts made, since the
>var started, with three metal buyers in
particular. W. L. Baillieu, who is a direc-
tor of several of the cos., and happens to
be also leader for the Government in the
State Leg. Council, was “staggered that it
should be thought necessary to take these
steps.” But of course it didn’t necessarily
mean that these cos. or any of them were
suspected of direct dealings with the enemy.
They may not even suspect that their stuff
goes to the enemy indirectly. It is possible
that in the office of even the most innocent
co. an important link in a chain may be
picked up. The proper attitude is : “Come
in! If there’s anything here that will help
you to track the German supply of copper
and other metals to its source, you’re more
than welcome to it.” There’s no use getting
annoyed, anyhow.
* * # *
B. 11. Block 34 is feeling sick, like the rest
of them. Still it is used to that. It lias
been living on odds and ends for years past,
mostly carbonates overlooked in the upper
workings, helped latterly by sulphides sold to
the Junction North. For the half-year
14,759 tons of sulphides and 5002 tons of
carbonates were paid for. The whole blessed
lot_ brought in a profit of only £1202, and
£973 has to be cut off that to provide for
depreciation. Apparently the cost of min-
ing 003 tons of carbonates unsold at Sept.
30 has been included on the one side, for the
value of the ore appears on the other. Liquid
assets in excess of liabilities are valued at
£04.071 ; and that ought to be very near the
mark,, seeing that the bulk of it is in bank
deposits and only £4195 in timber and stores
—a line you’ll always find among mining
cos.’ liquid assets, and which you often
want to kick out. The sulphide output has
stopped short; but the Sulphide Corporation
is taking a weekly 100 tons of carbonates.
This and the interest will keep the office pot
boiling, and perhaps provide something
towards the interest on the pref. capital—
£lsoo a half-year.
* -X- * #
Nothing has been done on the Firefly
field (N.S.W.) since The Bulletin
described it three or four months ago. The
only important change has been that the
Baker-Bellinger- Denison - Paxton-Longworth
syndicate, which had most of the principal
claims under option (for £50,000. it is
said), is now right out of the business.
These people spent a few thousands, mostly
on driving and tunneling, and developed no
ore worth mentioning. A couple of thou-
sand more would probably decide whether
there is likely to he the tonnage necessary
to make the thing worth while. At present,
in spite of rather hifalutin official reports,
there is nothing to get excited about. There
is ore at the Firefly, without a doubt; hut
there is no body of rich stuff that would
pay to ship, and it would take a very con-
siderable quantity of moderate grade ore to
justify the erection of a treatment plant.
* * * -X-
Poor, honest. hopeful Mount David
(N.S.W.) has been down on its knees,
begging the Warden for three months’
mercy; and the Warden let it have
all it asked for. From first to last,
so fit was said in the court, the
co. in 18 years has spent about £270.000,
including, of course, proceeds of gold won.
So far as can be made out, shareholders
have put up about £70,000. and the mine
now owes them £40,000. And it also owes
al least one manager his life. .V “stringer”
of the worst kind, it a! last got this good
man down and worried him to a violent
death. You can tell its character from that
as well as you can from the figures.
Breakfast Creek, in the Oberon district
(N.S.W.), after being partially hung up for
several months on account of scarcity of
water, is now crushing with 10 head, and
will keep on while the liquid lasts. Some good
stone was handled a few years ago at a little
battery on the creek near by, hut old hands
aver that this came from a small vein
which was good, hut not good enough con-
sidering its size. The present proprietary
hails from Bendigo, one of the Lansells
being among the party, and they are satis-
fied the show will pay if worked on a fairly
large scale. _ A good 10-liead battery has
been shifted from Orange, and it is claimed
that the plates alone pay costs, with a bit
over, and the sands are yet to te handled.
What a bonanza Ivalgoorlie has proved!
Out of an oblong block barely half a mile
long and scarcely a quarter of a mile wide,
10 mining cos. have in the last 20 years dug
up £54.001,740 worth of gold and paid
£19,170,407 in dividends. Here is the
record :
Gold. Dividends.
Golden Horseshoe .. .. £10,187,375 £3,135,000
Great Boulder . . .. 9,411,792 4,416,175
Ivanhoe 7,891,561 3,293,750
Boulder Perseverance. . .. 5,875,718 1,461,116
Oroya Links (Oroya-Brown Hill) 5,609,084 2,171,616
Lake View and Star (mostly
L.V. Consols) .. .. 5,352,748 1,545,000
Ivalgurli 3,647,963 1,444,500
Associated 2,584,772 716,217
South Kalgurli . . . . 2,496,327 260,780
Associated Northern.. .. 1,604,400 726,253
South Kalgurli and Associated would have
done better for shareholders hut for the
many dark days of mismanagement and
muddle they passed through. At present the
10 are producing about £225,000 a month
between them; but outside the Boulder,
Ivanhoe and Kalgurli, which cut up about
a third of their gross earnings among share-
holders, little of this revenue is being paid
out in dividends. Excepting the Horseshoe
and the Ivanhoe every mine on the list is
little more than a shadow, comparatively
speaking, and an invitation to follow the
remains of the Associated Northern to its
last resting place may be issued at any time.
Boulder, Perseverance, Kalgurli, Associated
and South Kalgurli all look very sick at
depth, but the tens of thousands of tons of
stuff left behind in the upper levels when
costs were much higher than they are now
will keep them going for years. Only three
other Westralian gold mines have topped
the million mark. These are the Sons of
Gwalia, with a yield of £4,123,342 and divi-
dends of £1.005.487; Great Fingall,
£4,771.805 and £1.740,875; Westralia Mount
Morgans. £1.307.900 and £220,822. The
Gwalia is still fairly sound, but the Fingall
is shaky and the Westralia Mount Morgans
shattered.
* * * *
Great Boulder is still getting abused in
the West for spending capital on its Vic-
torian option, and the old question is being
asked: “Why can’t it stay where it is in-
stead of going elsewhere in search of mines?”
The Chamber of Mines, which may be re-
garded as the co.’s mouthpiece, says the
reason is largely, if not wholly, the treat-
ment the mining industry is receiving from
the present Government; and the Mines
Regulation Bill, which the Upper House
assassinated last session, is quoted as an
example of the further legislation that the
Government desires to inflict upon the
goldfields community. There may he a little
in the Chamber’s contention, but there is a
good deal more in the fact that the Boulder
crowd w r ent out of the State to look for a
property because after long search it could
not find one locally. If the co. had been for-
tunate enough to get hold of something
worth having, it would not have bothered
much about the “hampering restrictions”
that the Labor Ministry threatens the in-
dustry witlj. It would have just “hogged
in.” There are countries with a lot worse
mining laws than those of IV.A., and few
with better.
* * * *
The last of the old dumps on the Lake
View (W.A.) is being put through the
vacuum filter. At the time the Lake View
and Oroya bought them in 1910 they were
estimated to contain 400,000 tons, but nearly
480,000 tons have since been treated for a
net profit of something over £20,000. Only
a comparatively small tonnage now remains.
**-* •*
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) explains why it
cut down the quarterly div. from Is. to Od.:
“The Board has been impelled by the pre-
sent situation and heavy recent capital ex-
penditure to halve the distribution... .The
sum involved is £5OOO, and so large an out-
lay has necessarily cut deeply'into the liquid
assets of the c 0.... Profits at the mine con-
tinue on the same scale as during the past
two years, but the circumstances of the time
are such as to compel the retention of larger
balances in a liquid state.” From this it
seems that when the Allies have got well on
the road to Berlin and things are a bit
brighter, the old shilling may be looked for,
* * * •
Mining, crushing and treating stone and
slimes at Edna May (W.A.) last month,
together with development charges, ate up
£4327. As gold and bullion were worth
£14.151. the co. netted £10,824. A 3s. divi-
dend takes £0428, so that a nice surplus
was carried forward for the fat Christmas
bonus. Central Edna follows this gilded
showing with a profit of £7OO.
Another wait for dividends is the lot of
the .Mount Lyell shareholders, as the net
profit for the March-September half-year,
after writing off £28,792 for prospecting
work and depreciation, was at the low level
of £29,317. War accounts for most of this
falling-off. To its credit the co. won’t stop
or cut work seriously, though it does mean a
big contribution to the war fund —to the
extent to which ore reserves will be drawn
on without profit to keep the staff at work.
The co. deserved better luck, for since the
div. in June, 1910, shareholders have had
only Gs.
* * * *
Star of the West, Kevington (Vic.),
glimmers less like a tallow dip since the
capital was moved up to £25,000 and all
the paid-ups were drafted into the contri-
buting pen. This change hasn’t made much
difference in the view taken of the mine, as
the last call was met by all, and the co.’s
debts are not a bit embarrassing. The
Maydo reef, which the manager is flirting
with most seriously at the moment, is rich,
but there is no big width of it. The East-
ern reef also prospects well, but it seems
never to have had energy enough to spread
out wider than eight inches. This means costly
sloping. Nevertheless if this stone is worth
an ounce and the shoots aren’t wretchedly
short, Star shareholders may again see the
clouds roll by.
* * * *
As 1914 wears on, Victorian gold yields
are fading rather badly. October was re-
sponsible for only 29.4700 z., bringing up
the total for the 10 months of this year to
345,3000 z. This is 29,0000 z. less than for
the same term in 1913. Now that the Cath-
cart is among the has-beens and the Duke
Extended has had to sack hands until it
can open up new ground, and the North
Nuggetty is hors dc combat for the time
being, there is likely to be a further falling-
off in the output. Peacock and Drysdale
Brown are throwing cash about among some
of the old-timers, like the Central Plateau
shows at Ballarat, instead of shooing the
geological staff into the mountains during
the dry season, when every natural condition
is favorable for getting into the recesses
there.
* * * *
In ease it shouldn’t get back after the
elections, the Vie. Government is distribut-
ing largesse amongst the lame ducks of gold-
mining. Last Chance, Ballarat, gets £3OOO
1 1 give it a filial chance. That ancient
sink of good call-money, the Central Plateau,
will receive £l5OO, in addition to £2OOO
previously granted; and Golden Reefs, a
derelict, is to have £lOOO to play with.
Great Southern Consols, Rutherglen, got
£2500 some time ago, and Long Tunnel has
had a cut. Further, the Central Plateau
Extended has applied for Government aid,
and is not likely to apply in vain. The
money would be better spent completing the
geological survey of Ballarat and Bendigo,
or helping fields like Dunolly, Tarnagulla,
Inglewood. Wedderburn and Avoca, where
the history of the reefs near the surface
down to 200 ft. suggests that many payable
mines remain idle without reason.
* * * *
Harry Dodd has read the burial service
over the Cathcart, of which he has been
skipper since the present co. was formed 15
years ago. The shareholders put in £40,000
and got out £70.487. The gold won was
valued at £253,000. so about £210,000 has
gone in wages and stores. The original
shareholder who paid par has just about got
interest. Five p.c. compound on £40,000 for
15 years would mean £83,150. and that
amount will be very nearly made up when
the cash balance and the \alue uf plant, etc.,
is divided.
•* * * *
Tyreonnell (N.Q.) has got 3490 z. from
190 tons, which at 555. per oz. pans out over
£5 a ton. The big bulge at the 200 ft. level
is yielding some good stone, and with a reef
up to 10ft. wide costs should be low. But the
reserves, in spite of this big lens, are very
moderate. The next level is at 150 ft. ver-
tical, and the winze connecting the two
drives shows a tapering reef. There is,
however, enough stone proved to keep the
share market in good heart for a few
months; and perhaps by that time the co.
will be lucky enough to strike another make
of stone. This is quite possible at 100 ft.,
for in the main shaft a good-looking reef
was passed through at llSft,
Mills United, Charters Towers, closed its
half-year on October 17 with a credit bal-
ance of £15,039. Recently Pfeiffer’s Day
Dawn mine and, plant was purchased for
£2OOO, so the actual cash resources are now
about £9OOO. Mills United is holding a big
area of ground, but there is very little in
(he report to enliven a dull share market.
* * * *
There is gold all over the / delaide hills —-
in minute quantities, about enough to keep
a fossicker in tucker—and in the past some
moderately payable reefs were worked. The
old Bird-in-lland was one of the host; 20-
odd years ago it put through over 20,000
tons of 4oz. stuff before its two shafts
(350 ft. and 400 ft.) were flooded out. In
the present drought the millions of gallons
of water now in the mine are more valuable
than the gold, and. as it is close to Adelaide’s
main water catchment, pumping seems in-
evitable, after which the suggestion is to let
some of the unemployed have a go at the
reefs. It is not often that a gold-mine can
be worked with the gold as a by-product,
so to speak.
* * * #
Labor Premier Earle (Tas.) brought iron
and steel proposals to the Premiers’ Confer-
ence, with the cheap power of the Great
Lake to back them up. lie offered
10.000 e.h.p. to the Federal Government in
the first place, and to anybody thereafter,
at £2 per h.p., presumably per annum. The
estuary of the Derwent and D’Entrecas-
teaux Channel cannot be excelled for deep
harborage in any place in the Common-
wealth. Every Australian State has big
deposits of iron, and Tasmania will deliver
to them the power for electrically smelting the
ore at this deep water. Tasmania’s own finest
deposit is at Blythe Itiver, 11 miles from
Burnie. It has been held by a Melbourne
co. for many years, W. Jamieson and other
Broken Hill men being interested; but; with
only a bonus offered and no duty, they could
not raise the capital in the Cold Country.
Now that Earle’s Government has taken
over the hydro-metallurgical scheme and is
pressing it to completion, Blythe River has
less excuse for marking time.
r Wild Car continued on gage 30.)


Under
Royal
Warrant
f
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
champagne
'^rlesHeidsieot
Reims
u I s) Mrtst*’* 11
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
TEN YEARS OLD.
A LETTER FROM BROKEN HILL,
SOCIAL LADIES WHO POSSESS WEAK NERVES
SHOULD READ AND REMEMBER THIS PROFES-
SIONAL OPINION.
“Mica Street, Broken Ilill, 24/1/13.
“For months past 1 have been pleased to notice
nurses from all parts of Australia expressing in the
press their sentiments , regarding your valuable medi-
cine, I qualified for the profession forty years ago,
and keep to it because I love to help the sick. In
earlier life I was ASSOCIATED WITH SOME OF
ADELAIDE’S CLEVEREST SURGEONS, and nursed
their patients. Until twelve years ago I was nursing
in S. Austrlaia, but since then I have been nursing
at Broken Hill. I have had lengthy experience and
can endorse every word other nurses have sa-'i about
Clements Tonic. In forty years I have ha/ the care
of hundreds of poor sick people, I hive been a close
observer of the effect of medicines, and years ago I
was satisfied Clements Tonic had i.o equal, and still
hold that opinion.
“(Signed) NURSE MENZIES.”
In order that this medicine may be ob-
tained, all Chemists and Stores sell it all
over all Australia. When travelling or
touring to any oversea parts it would be
best to include a few large bottles as a
necessary part of the travelling equipment.
Otard Brandy
15 YEARS OLD
IS A TRUE COGNAC BRANDY.
Otard Brandy is the pure distillation of the grape,
matured for years in the f amous historic Chateau de
Cognac, where Francois 1., King of France, was born.
This Chateau now forms the cellars and premises of
THE MAISON OTARD-DUPUY. For sickness or
health, as a liqueur or as a beverage, there is no spirit
to equal.
OTARD (15 Year) BRANDY.
¥
Q>
J?°vjce or
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, November 9, 1914.
My Dear Arini, —
Frank Leverrier has been elected vice-
chancellor of Sydney Uni., in succession to
Judge Backhouse, who decided that, if he
couldn’t be Chancellor on Dr. Maclaurin’s
death he wouldn’t be anything at all. It
is hard to say whether Leverrier, who is a
lawyer, is more brilliant than painstaking
or more painstaking than brilliant. Also, it
hasn’t yet been decided whether .he was
really born to be a scientist or a lawyer.
He is a K.C., certainly; but half his fat
briefs come to him because he is the best
chemist and engineer at the Bar in Aus-
tralia. Incidentally, it might also be dis-
puted whether he is more French than
English, for some of his education was
French and all his parentage. His sister
is brilliant pianiste Yvonne, who the
other day organised that entertainment
which brought in about £lOOO for the
French Red Cross.
Ex-Governor Macgregor of Bananaland
has been giving that State a booming notice
in various press interviews since he landed
in London. He got news of the outbreak
of the war when his xVberdeen liner called
at Durban ; but, though there was wild ex-
citment, the vessel made the English coast
without annoyance.
Two Maorilanders recently topped the
list of successful candidates for commissions
in the British army. Lieutenant E. 11.
Taylor, of the Third Auckland Regiment,
and Lieutenant Ilislop, of the Eighth South
Canterbury (M.L.) Mounted Rifles, are the
warriors implicated. They are both busy
capturing Potsdam by this time, though sol-
dier Taylor’s force, the York and Lancaster
Regiment, was in India a couple of months
ago.
News comes this way that Captain Mor-
gan, the naval man from 11.M.5. Venerable,
who was appointed to look after the young
gentlemen at Jervis Bay College, has been
seriously ill in Portsmouth.
Mrs. Kirkham, better known as singer
Kate Rooney, is the proud mother of the
finest infant on earth. Little Miss Kirkham
arrived in this Vale of Joy and Roses on
October 26 and greeted the world with
laughter.
Mr. and Mrs. Claud Macdonald were in
the Isle of Skye a few weeks ago. Mrs.
Claud is the lady who generally sets Society
aglow with envy over the variety and cut
of her frocks. She was in the frock busi-
ness herself, in Melbourne, before she said
“I will” to the well-known pastoralist. If
the smart Australian dame has taken even
a small portion of her extensive wardrobe
to the Scottish Isle, she will be a booming
advt. for this land flowing with milk and
bunny.
The war has bumped grand opera right out
of 1915, so far as England is concerned.
Provincial opera companies are following the
lead of Covent Garden, and many tenors
and baritones will either retire on their
laurels and garlic or arm for the fray. The
Quinlan co. has disbanded for profound mili-
tary reasons. Like death, teeth and
debts, the thing was unavoidable. Geral-
dine Ward, a Sydney girl who went off to
join the Quinlan travelling aviary, is return-
ing.
The goffing carnival, which begins on Kos-
ciusko’s bald pate on January 26, is already
attracting the attention of members of Syd-
ney clubs. It is stated on good authority
that a balmy breeze tempers the sun on the
hottest day the old mountain knows. Golf at
7000-odd feet above mosquito level need,
therefore, have no terrors for robust citizens
who are not so active as they used to be.
The Russians having already (see cables)
got inside their sheepskin lingerie, the notion
seemed good enough to imitate. So the
jumbuck waistcoat, a cold-proof garment, is
the latest idea for the benefit of Tommy
Cornstalk. The A.J.C. has promised £250
to the committee which has this service in
hand. As a jumbuck waistcoat costs only
ss. 3d. in Sydney, patriotic persons can get
wonderful value for their money by adding
to the Club’s contribution.
A meeting in the office of David Fell and
Co., the other afternoon, bubbled with enthu-
siasm on this woolly subject. Mr. G. Earp
took the chair. Mr. Percy Faithful added
some appreciative suggestions. Mr. Flet-
cher, of the David Fell firm, audited the
bolting imagination of Dr. Read, who saw
30 or 40 depots at least, with young lady
typists being rushed with contributions. Mrs.
Tom Marshall joined in the debate to the
extent of two eloquent guineas. Barrister
Hanbury Davies put in a warning word as
to the quality of the sheepskin. Mrs. Bob
Mackinnon, under the shade of a floating
veil, seconded resolutions protesting unswerv-
ing devotion to tanned jura buck for winter
wear. (P.S. —I wonder what would happen
to the person who thirded a resolution?)
A stout, hearty-looking gentleman who repre-
sented the Pastoralists’ Union, rose nimbly
to his feet to offer occasional encouragement;
and 1 >algety and Co. undertook to take charge
of as many skins as pastoralists will give.
David Pell and Co.. Equitable Building, will
reply to any inquiries on this comforting
subject.
Fred Lassetter, whose male parent is the
head of the big shop in George-street, cut
the law to enlist in the London Scottish
Regiment, which recently smote the enemy,
like Samson, with the jawbone of its kilt.
His mother used to be Elsie Antill, a
daughter of the late John of that name at
Picton.
According to a London paper, the bellig-
erent Carson married Miss Ituby Frewen
after various denials of the engagement and
humble apologies from newspapers which
had respectfully mentioned the affair. Sir
Edward strenuously and indignantly (that’s
a way they have!) denied the re-
ports of his engagement. One of the
Harmswortli papers, better informed, obsti-
nately refused to withdraw its state-
ment. What an odd size in blusterers the
noisy Carson must be, even in the usually
peaceful days of courting. The ladv is a
niece of an apostle of bimetallism, Moreton
Frewen. who once debated the elusive topic
with Max Hirsch in Melbourne. Inci-
dentally, to show his faith in silver. Frewen
got an option to buy a Broken Hill mine,
and interested his friend Kintore, then Gov-
ernor of S. Aus., in his scheme. The result
was the Sulphide Cornoration, which has
since paid a couple of millions in dividends.
Mrs. Sid Christian and her sister went to
London by the last mailboat. Their big
quarters at the dusty end of Victoria Bar-
racks will retire into brown holland wrap-
pers unless urgently required for other
military folks. Major Sid Christian has
gone to the land of Prester John, which
is between Golconda and Barataria, with El
Dorado in the middle distance, and the Isle
of Knowhere in the offing—whatever the
offing may be.
The Garcia School of Music (St. Vin-
cent’s College) notifies the public that it
will unlift its youthful voices in the Town
Hall on November 28. The cash will go
to the Mayor’s Patriotic Fund.
Another member of the A. A. Dangar
family has plunged into what the older
novelists respectfully called the “bonds of
holy matrimony.” The wedding of Rodney
Dangar—a son of the late A. A. of that ilk
—and Elsie Macdonald, was celebrated in
St. Mark’s, Darling Point, where our Best
People are supported by fully floral ser-
vices on these occasions. The bride is a
daughter of the Bob Macdonalds. They
live in the big square house called Low-
lands that squats on a vrassy flat at Double
Bay.
The Society of Artists’ Annual Show opens
next week in the old place, at the top of 1
the corkscrew staircase in Queen Victoria
Markets. The hanging committee, which is
also the kicking-out department, is perform-
ing both its duties with great vigor. The
Royal Art Society is in a similar mood, only
its preparations for its big show are being
made in its rooms, Pitt-street.
The N.S.W. Women’s Liberal League is
permitting itself a little relaxation from
politics, and turns from the Federal situa-
tion to travelling kitchens. The inventive
brain that thought out the details of a kitchen
which runs on all fours, so to speak, with an
army, was of a fine, practical Mary Anri
type. To provide the means, the W.L.L.
is joining the innumerable horde of bandits
who will take your last shilling. Mrs.
Bogue Luffman is hon. sec. She will
cheerfully accept the largest contribution.
The short afternoon concert is settling
down to a fitful career. One hour is the
usual limit. Singer Emilie Lambert is
rounding up her pupils for an effort of this
kind. The fledglings will attack their high
notes in St. James’s Hall (November 16)
from 3 p.m. to four o’ the clock.
There is a steady exodus of soldiers’ wives
who can afford to pack up their chattels for
London. Major Irvine’s wife has gone, to be
as near the uproar as the war lords will
allow. For a time, however, she may linger
in India, which is a good place for one who
desires to break the journey.
Government dairy-expert Michael O’Calla-
ghan has incidentally dug up a bone of bitter
contention in this State. He strongly recom-
mends dairying in preference to mutton-
growing for the Ai-midale district, because
the cow-owner can get “a certain amount
of help in his own family.” That’s just the
trouble. How can legislation protect young
children of seven or eight years from the
muddy slavery of the cowbails? The “cer-
tain amount of help” is too elastic a term.
The large white cotton gloves of the Law are
slow to grip the offenders who send mere
toddlers to collect the bawling herd at 3.30
a.m. —week in and week out.
The National Council of Women put on
its best bonnet the other clay to consider
Education. After the heavyweight subject
had been severely handled and turned inside
out. the Council passed on to the compara-
tively simple records of the Prisoners Aid
Association. Mrs. Tom Hughes presided at
this meeting, which unfolded its higher
thoughts iu the Y.W.C.A. abode.
Miss J. Ilalley has just laid down her
ferule after 47 years’ service in the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction. The lady
dominie was handed a diamond trinket as a
memento of her dogged pursuit of the tluee
It's. She certainly earned it, for some ot
our sex can pick up diamond tiaras tor
merely looking handsome, and they don t
require to do that for 47 years before the
gaud eventuates. If a professional beauty,
starting (say) at the age of IS, had to be
65 before the diamond necklace arrived, she
would probably grow tired and take to
domestic cookery.
The . Sydney Phil. Society followed _ too
swiftly on the trail of other patriotic
outbreaks to get a big crowd for its Bel-
gian relief concert. Still, there was a fail-
attendance in the municipal hall. Greatly
daring, one of the lion, concert manageis
affixed a bit of strange bunting to the front
of the perch whereon conductor Bradley
tosses his arms and his mane. That part of
the audience which happened to be close to
the wild fowl on the red ground, saw, with
starting eyes, that it was a white eagle.
Peace was, however, maintained by an in-
formative person passing round _ the word
that it was the Polish eagle, a friendly bird
which is having most of its feathers torn out
in our side of the argument. Bunting has
to be handled with care just now, and any
fresh experiments ought to be labelled m
large letters. There are about 600 eagles
on various national flags, not including the
elephant of Siam. And if the ghost of
Jorgen Jorgensen arises to reconstruct the
Republic of Iceland, I suppose there will
be a new banner, with a whale and a vol-
cano on it.
The various Allied Consuls were seated on
the usual bit of Axminster at the Phil, con-
cert. The C.J. Cullens, the Neville May-
mans and Mrs. TreflG with a selection from
the George Earp family, were enthroned on
the roomy leather seats, thus mercifully
escaping the crowded Austrian miseries
whereon the herd elbow each other’s ribs.
Mr. Welsh, the local representative of
Russia (the Australian Consul-General for
Ivan Ivanovitch hangs out his flag in Mel-
bourne) is a mild-looking non-Muscovite
citizen. He never led a Tartar army in
his life, nor did he smite the Tibetan on the
Roof of the World. The said local repre-
sentative was about as nee’- as he desired to
be to the uproar of Tschaikowsky’s “Marche
Slavonic.” The drums backed up the furious
blast of the whole orchestra at one crisis in
this composition. The result was a good
imitation of 11,000,000 pairs of Bears’ boots
stamping over the steppes. _ The audience
stood up like trained marionettes as the
Allies’ National Anthems were belched forth
—“The Marseillaise,” the finest of them. Solo-
ists Muriel Barton, Geo. Castles and Mal-
colm McEachern assisted. George Castles —I
suppose he comes from the Bendigo aviary—
has a stormy tenor and the healthy appear-
ance of a village blacksmith.
News drops in of the engagement of Dick
Stephen, a son of the late C. B. Stephen.
K.C. The girl is May Campbell, niece and
adopted chick of Lang Campbell, K.C.
Bernice Edwell, the Arts and Crafts Girl
who turns out leather work as a sideline to
miniatures, is back from Adelaide. She has
been doing good business over there for about
18 months.
The Repertory Theatre in Grosvenor-
street is the scene of frenzied energy this
week. Five Australian plays are being re-
hearsed in a nerce determination to produce
drama with a gumleaf flavor. The season
begins on Monday, and continues with a
varied programme till the following Saturday
night. The Millions Club is going to book
a few thousand seats —I can’t swear to the
exact arithmetic of it. Profits go into the
yawning cavern of the Patriotic Fund.
“lolanthe” was a wonderfully tuneful re-
vival at Her Majesty’s after the floods of
musical comedy of the Yip-i-addy quality.
Of course, Sullivan wrote music for artists
with voices. This makes it difficult for the
average comedy lady or gentleman who has
no voice worth mentioning, but offers un-
bounded cheek and a pleasing appearance as
a set-off. The male vocal support in the pre-
sent Gil-Sullivan survival is a long way
ahead of the feminine efforts. Robert
McKeown is an impressive Earl Tolloller,
with a vocal organ that would drive any
peer not at the front to sing in his bath.
(There are no baths at the front.) Ethel
Morrison —a large, handsome, placid lady of
12st., at a rough guess, which is only about
4st. below the reputed tonnage and pound-
age of Alice Barnett of earlier days—gets a
chuckle from the gallery soon after she flaps
her stage wings as the Fairy Queen. “Who
taught me to curl up in a buttercup? lolan-
the!” When the laughter simmers down
Ethel tells us more details of her diet of
moonshine and dewdrops. I believe she rode
on a snail’s back, but won’t be sure. Any-
how. the snail must be a damaged ruin, so
he doesn’t count. The one difficulty about
the production of “lolanthe” is the search for
a fairy giantess weighing a ton to do the
part of the Queen.
Hon. sec. Arthur Upjohn, of the
Belgian Children’s Fund, writes con-
cerning a party that is brewing. It
is to be at the Hotel Pacific, Manly, on
November 24 at 8 p.m. The notion is to
have a gorgeous ball and entertainment. Pro-
ceeds will buy special gifts for Belgian
babies, who will put in a wan Christmas
unless Santa Claus relents. (No one expects
Santa Bill to relent.) Francis Suttor,
M.L.C., is president of the committee.
St. Martha’s Industrial Home (Leich-
hardt) had the luck of a warm, steamy
afternoon for the opening of its annual show
of stitchery, after a wet, weepful morning
Miss Mary Strickland, just back from the
Cup, made a remark quite 10 seconds in
length, and declared the affair open. Arch-
bishop Kelly addressed the gathering, and a
conscientious cleric, with the aid of a soft
brogue, industriously worked his way through
the 2Gth annual report to the uttermost
farthing. Miss Birch panted after the
Strickland kindergarten, and Help d’Apice
gingerly picked his steps through the lin-
gerie stalls. Two political dames, Mrs.
Trefle and Mrs. Carmichael, mustered at
the roll call. The rest of the Ministerial
brigade was attending to a Coast Hospital
foundation-stone. This was laid with some
splendor by Premier Holman. But that’s
another story.
The fine upstanding John Toohey dame
gave her practical support to St. Martha’s
efforts to fill her cash-box. The indefati-
gable Mrs. Bull, acting hon. secretary, con-
tributed to the cause in the sweat of her
brow, the tents being as heated as a Turkish
bath with the fortissimo stop pulled out.
Velvet-footed nuns move round the proceed-
ings, which are still in full swing.
Artist Florence Rodway has unpacked her
color-box in her Sydney studio, after spend-
ing three months in Melbourne.
On Thursday, Nov. 12, the second annual
celebration of Egg Day occurs hereabouts.
This is not a great political gathering, at
which the fruit of the fowl-yard is used by
the warm-hearted elector, but a charity gift
day. In 1913 the North Shore Hospital
made its first organised raid with fair suc-
cess. This year’s collection ought to be
bigger. Secretary Arthur Russell announces
that the loot will be gathered up by author-
ised persons at Milson’s and McMahon’s
Point, from about 7.30 a.m. to 10 a.m. Or,
you can forward properly-packed parcels to
St. Leonards railway station. Write the
hospital address on the packages as plainly
as you know how, and don’t drop the parcel.
If you do drop it, don’t wait to pick it up.
A song recital will shake the rafters of
St. James’s Hall, and float down the
adjacent lane, before this greets you. Mont-
gomery Stuart, pianist Carlton Fay and
fiddler Coad are giving the proceeds to the
Belgian Fund.
Baritone Herbert Ratcliffe, who went off
to London without asking for a committee’s
benediction, has been doing very well in
that big antheap and in the provinces.
When he wrote to a Sydney friend, he had
been working his way through a long list
of musical events. The press on the other
side gives the Australian, who is still in
the twenties, the credit of being able to pull
even the indifferent patriotic song—a fre-
quent casualty—out of a chilling frost.
The air is thick with patriotic verse set to
music—all sorts of music that marches, or
trots or hobbles or limps along, like the
pilgrims who went to the wonderful spring
of San Joaquin. Paling’s forward “Australia
Answers to the Call” (royalties from the sale
to be handed over to the great cause), by
O. W. Brain. The same firm is also respon-
sible for “A Message to the Motherland,” by
Percy Hollis.
Yours affectionately,
VANDOUIAN.
After spending several watchful weeks on
board an Australian cruiser that was half
the time cleared for action, Dr. Richard
Prevost, of North Sydney, died a lonely mid-
night death on the roadside through his
motor overturning while speeding towards an
urgent case. The German curse may have
had something to do with it. Prevost shared
the same cabin as Dr. Brian Pockley, the
young surgeon who was killed in action
during the fight at Simpsonshafen. Before
going ashore on the luckless morning, Pockley
gave his brother-medico a letter to his people;
and when Prevost got back to Sydney and
his young wife and child, he had the sad
duty of telling the bereaved Pockley family
the details of the battle-tragedy. A fort-
night or so later the death he had dodged
at sea overtook him on a peaceful road.
Which shows that a warship on active ser-
vice can be safer than a peaceful Sydney road
—especially if it happens to be a rough road.


“ CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
HSrVf)
m
' S-'<~ '*“&
_ iT I--
>
f
iS'-ys-
Js ,o
■>
./~~... <y< x?'"'
/7 '..>s♦ V- f y \ .*
/ /\ Ijffi A iSr^w
( (fW&*~
Lm
, „ p m J^S
... ■s, v- ~ r '"‘ j .jfi v■ .• ■• • ■
■< /.- Vi/ V AT) ’
3&g f2S 'Jn
x J
M :\ J&Cfe
• i if'V
44 rife
/cf
-r^*' / ;; -
\Wj.
V
' vc
M
&s?■
•VI! V.
Vfe />
V?
&
*-y.
/' U T>
JgßSSgSfow
w
n
Ssa»
S»S
1
i
W
<AW
f &
/s'
v i y
*V <■ /\
_r> -;
\ ■ '
m
if
/ l
W,
,( V/
/
safe
Sf&l
/
sc?
**
/
£7
/ / /
■-• /
/
k
Af
fl
&
> «KM
i
%
f
«/
MJ
n
IX
i
CJ
l V
4S^
vl
W /i
Pi //;V ,7
■; | / r-y / /
7/
>1 >
iV /,
/
//!
,/ / / ; i
■# ! / // /1 l/f:/ !
? ■■/f i / /,v (r ■
/
// A / / // / t
/ ( 1 i, t /
'"N
■
//
//
Al/
! S' /
V-;
• >
L - '.-O'
l /
Mft
\ A
*3
> e/igc ,Kp SAT""}
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Makes the cruel
Invader rue
That black day
On which he came
To the fight
With sword and flame
From each wood
And coppice hiss
“COB RA” shots that
Never miss.
Chancier matters
As he shoots:
“ Take that for
Your old black-boot


mm
mm
Stylo No. PR-2.
Farmer’s Two piece Suits are made of specially-selected,
light-weight' materials; cut for case and comfort, yet
possessing a refined smartness which proclaims them the style-
leaders in Ready-made Clothing for Summer Wear.
In Fancy Striped Flannels.... 35/-, 40/-, 45/-, 507-
In Flannels in Navy, three shades of Grey and Lovat effects,
45/-, 50/-
Fanev Vests to wear with the above from 7/G
N.B. —When ordering these Suits please quote
Style No. PR2.
We Pay the Carriage.
FARMER’S, Sydney.
PITT, MARKET & GEORGE STREETS
ltingsburgh liroved himself a top no tehee
bourne Cup Day. Bur King George IV. is
winner. As are all tiie wise who aid their
mental rollons . -spiratiori from
n.onarch’s topnotch Scotch.*
on Mel-
alwa.vs a
■ brilliant
the above
Wi
I
h (
! I
w
ft,
The
Right
Tyres
to fit to any Car that
has to withstand
heavy driving, are
DUNLOP
MOTOR'
TYRES'
They have the
STRENGTH, the
QUALITY, and
ample thickness of
high - grade rubber
wearing tread to en-
sure you thousands
of miles of running.
YOU CAN RELY
on satisfaction if you use
the latest “Dunlops.”
Try them-NOW!
OBTAINABLE
ALLGARAGES
DUNLOP
RUBBER
CO
* ★
ALL
STATES
AND N.Z
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 9, 1914.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Day of the Year was robbed of some
of its traditional glory. Our Caledonian
G.-G. decided to dispense with the circus
business that has attended the arrival of
past Governors on the course. Unobtrusive
motors landed the Hip Hooray contingent at
the terrace steps, and the various Governors
and their household brigades absolutely
slunk —yes, slunk, my dear—into the Blue
Box. The Governors sat in a wooden row,
their suits looking as though they had been
cut from the selfsame roll of grey cloth. They
affected sombre black ties —all except one
daring visitor, who spread a tender splash
of lavender silk below his chin. I couldn’t
see their socks, as the railing of the pen was
in the way. They all wore collars, and
appeared to have been recently shaved. The
Aides were slim and black, and peered at the
multitude from beneath the shiniest silk
toppers. (I don’t mean, by the way, that
their faces were black —only their coats. In-
cidentally, I never knew a fat Aide—except
of course, Guy Madden, and he was merely an
accidental sort of Aide.)
To turn to the costumes of the less frivol-
ous sex. Lady Helen wore blue satin that
dripped away from a lot of cool transparency
in the upper parts. She had three regal
feathers in a tiny hat, and, for a change,
no red-—not even so much as a touch of red
flannelette. We dress experts were as sur-
prised as though she had appeared in a nich-
ing of hessian overlaid with schnapper-'
colored sugee. Lady Stanley wore the (luck-
iest little bonnet—with her hair bunched out
behind in a chignon. The bonnet had blue
strings tied under her dear little chin, and
her dress was shadowy-blue chiffon and pink
carnations. A tremendous osprey marked the
presence of Lady Galway. Miss Strickland
was all pale blue and pink; and her papa
wore large round spectacles, amongst other
things. The dimpled Lady Doris Blackwood
looked rather woebegone. It may be that
the war is getting on her nerves.
Frank Madden and his wife and daughters
visited the sacred pen. Willie Watt balanced
on the steps for a while. The L. K. S. Mac-
kinnons lunched with the Governors before
the Cup race, and Mr. Mackinnon joyously
flung up his wee Highland bonnet as a Cup
winner afterwards, lie races, as you know,
in the name of Macleod.
Mrs. Leslie Stuart dreamt Kingsburgh,
wore a distracting costume of navy blue, and
had with her her just-returned husband, so
the tank of her happiness was pretty well
over-flowing. Miss Esther Fairbairn’s most
conspicuous garment was a large white para-
sol decorated with an immense black rose.
Miss Fenner, a sister of Mrs. Percy Ohirn-
side, tied embroidered pink roses tightly
round her hips, and, but for additional
clothes, would have looked like a Honolulu
belle. Mrs. Dewar Theil wore an exquisitely-
failored garment of whisky-colored silk.
Khaki was everywhere. Colonel Legge,
who was armed to the teeth and
crowned with a positive aviary of
feathers, looked a vision of manly
beauty. Captain .Taswant Singh. A.D.C.
to the Maharajah of Patiala, wore the love-
liest turban of a tender shade of bird’s-egg
blue. It was a dream of a toque. He bad
obviously been inserted into his clothes with
a shoehorn, and his whiskers were Dun-
drearys of a peculiarly faultless type. He
has since returned to India, to the grief of
all true connoisseurs of male loveliness.
A N.S.W. visitor, Mr. Delfosse Badgery,
dropped in on the Cup aboard an aeroplane.
Gatekeepers tried to collect his ticket and
policemen clamored for his member’s pass.
He was in a position to spurn them all.
But his luck was out in other respects.
While trying to start his engine he got a
bang from the propeller and broke bis wrist.
Oaks Day and Guy Fawkes Day came
together this year, and the appropriateness
of the coincidence was obvious as regards
Flemington. Among the women, loose, slap-
dash draperies of the scarecrow variety
tossed for the limelight with bunched silks
that followed the wearers in bustles. One
prominent social figure achieved a striking
resemblance to a pantomime dame. Another
fa visitor) carried an Oriental silk pagoda
for a parasol, and seemed proud of it. The
thing had a spike as long as a bayonet, and
was, in other respects, more suitable for
storming trenches than hearts. And then
there were the dreams. Lady Stanley had
one—a little coatee of lace, which was worn
over a narrow black velvet skirt in conjunc-
tion with a lorgnette. The shipping Parker
heiress looked like Dresden china .as she
walked the lawn with her doctor husband.
The McEvoy lady was in frills of amber
tulle, and in her strong right hand she
carried a sable-hued parasol with a stick like
the Black Rod. Talking of parasols, Mrs.
Langford’s surprise was one which, while
quiet black outside, opened to show a hun-
dred roses embroidered on its innards.
The Carty Salmon lady wore black and
white, and the Sydney Mayoress conversed
amicably with the Hennessys. Young Knox
was with his.fiancee, Miss Clarke —their Jast
public appearance before the wedding. His
brother Gordon has left for the front, kilts
and all. Tony Hordern and his brother Sam
were out every day, but they had left their
wives behind, and a pathetic cry went up
from the dress-recorders when the tragic
fact was discovered. Melba was another
absentee who left a blank. Tlreo Marks,
from Sydney, showed off a tall, grey-eyed
wife clad in a get-up which was champagne
color from feathers to shoe-tips.
Many ancient dames, clutching at fashions
that had been designed for their grandchil-
dren, showed inches of scraggy, bare neck.
The prevailing craze for tulle frills standing
up in frivolous little hats, gave the lawn the
look of a Ited Indian corroboree.
Steeplechase Day was tine and blue and
warm, so all the butterflies came out. The
lawn looked like a great sloping bed of
tulips, with its sea of brilliantly-tinted para-
sols swinging languidly in the soft breeze.
It was the gayest day of the meeting.
Swedish Lad’s win in the Steeplechase,
with twelve-something up, roused the crowd
to a frenzy. The grandstand rose to its
f- et as one man or woman-—shrieking, yell-
i:.g and swearing with enthusiasm. The big
chestnut came through the gate, after
weighing-in, with the same self-conscious,
conceited air that Trafalgar used to affect
after a victory. Swedish Lad, with Claude
Grice on his back, has now won seven out
of the eight jumping races in which he has
started. Do you wonder that ihe G.-G. and
his lady paid their humble respects to the
noble animal?
The Fairrgusson was clad in the most
delicate shade of grey, with a white band
round his hat, and Lady Helen wore pink
liat feathers and a grey frock—the combined
effect being to make them look like a couple
of galali parrots. Admiral Cresswell and
his lady (she with purple and green tufts of
tulle in her black hat) were with the vice-
regalities most of the day. Mrs. Parker
Buttner was hobbled in a wonderful gar-
ment of that brownish-black color which the
Parisians have dubbed Ilead-of-a-nigger.
She could only manage two-incli steps, but
the effect, was worth all the discomfort.
Mrs. Holden wore a ravishing costume of
pinky-red, with feathers floating about here
and there. The Forrest dame affected pale
lavender, and her Bigjolm carried a monster
stick that seemed to have fallen straight out
of the Stone Age. Muriel Starr staggered
Society with the aid of a sort of Ilie’lah’
kilt of silk, worn over a trouser-skirt. The
Lady of the Marvellous Frocks was absent.
She is understood to be very busy, these
times, instructing counsel and designing
Court costumes.
Amongst the curiosities was a confirmed
sportslady, who in dress and figure resembled
a blue bag. Near her was a vast woman,
girded about with a long black-and-white
vest, which garment hung over a white
knee-length nightshirt, worn over a pair of
check trousers —or, to be explicit, a skirt
that simulated trousers. One misguided
dame wore, with a pale-yellow complexion, a
green-lined turban. It was horrible.
Another had a large embroidered black swal-
low on her veil; it was neat as a symbol of
the week’s' chief doings—more especially as
it was worn near her mouth —but, as an
ornament, No. emphatically A 7 o.
The Stanley party had all the charm
of novelty. Motors panted round in
search of the front door, but found
every entrance guarded and closed ex-
cept one in the wilds of Bussell-
street, near where the police live and drill
and have their beginning. It turned out. in
the end that the pathway to the reception-
room lay through the Museum. One fat,
bewildered female, fighting gallantly in the
direction of the Presence, discovered herself
among the Proboseidese. It is a dreadful
thing to be looking for a Governor and to
suddenly find yourself leaning against a
stuffed elephant. The attendants did splen-
did rescue work—mostly by means of furious
signalling—among the lost and strayed, and
black-frockod cloak-minders who lurked in
a cave made of red baize did similar service
for the puzzled lieges.
The Governor and his wife and the G.-G.
and Iris wife were posed effectively in the
statue room. Lady Stanley looked nicer
ilian the nicest statue present in a dress of
Dresden china origin. It was of some
-flimsy, ivory-hued stuff which was embroi-
dered all over with big gold roses. Also,
there was a black-chiffon sash, and a cheeky
bow, which stuck its ends clear to the
wearer’s dimpled shoulders. Lady Helen
was lighted like a chandelier with diamonds,
while pearls made a running fire all over her
chest. Her dress was drenched with Brussels
lace. Altogether a highly-opulent effect. Of
the Governors’ clothes I propose to say
nothing. The unhappy men were so utterly
out-hlazed that they looked quite meek and
broken. And so did the aides.
After a perfunctory handshake the guests
■started on an educational tour of the caverns.
When I say “educational tour " I mean that
they made straight for the supper-room, or
as straight as they could. A few guards of
the 3rd Battalion G. H. Waiters Brigade
held the doorway for a while, but weight of
numbers and the close-formation system beat
them, and tliev were driven back with terrific
slaughter. One woman pulled a table clear
off its trestles in her wild hunger. It
was one of the hungriest crowds 1 have ween,
and remember that I have moved in Mel-
bourne Society for many a long year now.
Mavor Richards, of Sydney, gave a dinner
to the Hennessys at the Oriental on Oaks
night. The food was excellent, and frocks
of surpassing elegance were everywhere. 1
often think that I could endure the degrada-
tion of being a mayor, were I a man, for
the sake of the provender.
The Grand Hotel gave a musical pro-
gramme and ball to start off the races, and
Mrs. Holden was hostess in a dream of an
apricot gown. The guests wore the gay
rags which were unusable as regards other
functions (drab costuming is the vogue at
official shows these grey times), and Di Gilio
played, and in the drawing-room warblers
like Noel Geddes, Elsie Treweek and Fred
Coliier sang, and all was merry and bright
(pro tern.). Law was at the piano, and
Margery Gray played the fiddle.
That fine sportsman, Robert Power, who
has passed away at the reasonable age of
SI, is embalmed —white choker and all —in
Kahler's well-known painting of “The Flem-
ington Betting Ring” —although it is really
outside the ring, where Bob Power was
not familiar. The scene is the gate
leading from the lawn to the course. These
Powers came from Galway, where Arch-
bishop Carr had his bishopric later.
Thomas Herbert Power, who arrived
in 1849, had three sons, all well-
known in the racing world, Robert
being one of them. A good amateur rider,
being a handy lightweight, he himself once
rode in a Melbourne Steeplechase, on his
horse Viking, formerly owned by Adam
Lindsay Gordon, who was his friend and
frequent guest.
Lucy Rowe and Miss Dalie Michael is
turned on music and tea for a sewing party
at the Repertory Theatre recently. The
guests clicked the knitting-needles to the
tune of soft chatter. The sewing-bee is so
much the fashion these war-lilie days that
women are drifting back, half-uneOnseiously,
to the maddeningly quiet hours that
great-grandmamma endured in her youth.
Lucy Rowe made things more early-Victorian
than ever by singing some sweet old
English ballads, and another worker-
read out a letter from Ada Crossley.
It described a visit to a military hospital*
and eulogised the unquenchable, cheeriness of
Thomas Atkins in all circumstances. The ■
singer also wrote of a soldier “with a magni-
ficent fair moustache and a fine physique in
every other way.” Rather inconsequential
when you come to analyse it, but who except
a pro-German could analyse lovely woman’s
sentiments on the subject of our defenders?
This particular brand of sewing-social
afternoon is to happen every month. Miss
Reidy will direct the operations.
Poor Mrs. Gordon—she is a daughter of
Byron Moore, of the V.It.C. —has lost the
soldier-husband to whom she was married
only a few weeks ago. He was killed almost
as soon as lie joined his regiment.
In England all sorts of hitherto-unim-
portant johnnies have become rich in possi-
bilities since the Kaiser started to run
amuck; and the Gussie whom Gwendoline
turned down with contumely four months
ago may now easily be a fitting object of
tender regard. War is a Tatt.’s sweep, in
which the women as well as the men take
tickets. The casualty list is the result
sheet, where one woman learns she has
drawn a coronet and £lO,OOO a year, whilst
through her tears another reads that her
lot is widowhood and a reduced income.
Handsome Mrs. Birkbeck was one of the
bright spots of the vice-regal garden frivol.
She is a first cousin of the new Sea Lord
Fisher, and spent some months under his
chaperonage when he ruled the Mediter-
ranean Fleet. In those days she was Mrs.
Ogilvie, with a small son Max, who is now
at Harrow.
Mrs. J. C. Williamson would have been
here for the racing but for a difference of
opinion over J.C.’s tremendous will. It is a
small matter to do with the allowances of
the children, and the Bar is into it up to its
wig. One Dr. Williamson, an Amurkan
brother of J. 0., who is guardian to the
children, plays a leading role in the disturb-
ance. Meantime the affluent youngsters have
to beg for a tramfare every time they g 6
abroad, and uncle is too far away to be
argued with.
Mrs. Bertram Armytage had a hideous ex-
perience on her way to the Cup. The tow’n
is still discussing it. On her way from
Lome, someone—probably the worst class
of German—-pinched, borrowed, annexed or
stole her jewel case. The excitement when
the loss was discovered was terrific. Many
of the passengers were for stopping the
train. I would like to report that the brave
young widow leapt, out, grabbed a horse that
chanced to be feeding on the permanent
way, and galloped bareback after the thief.
Veracity, however, forbids. What she did
do was to telephone at the next stopping
place, as a result of which she recovered her
property at Geelong. What a life these
Society butterflies do lead, to be sure 1
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The Queen Adelaide and May Clubs have' made a
special appeal on behalf of the Belgian Relief Fund.
They will accept anything from millions to old boots.
Meanwhile the proposed show at the Exhibition
approaches nearer and nearer, and the excitement of
the organisers and the predatoriness of the collectors,
and the mad eagerness of the ticket-sellers grow by
leaps and springs.
We have a large population of German origin,
and the papers are making quite a haul out of
advts. setting forth that Hans Schmidt will hence-
forth be known as Henry Smith. This is what is
called a sign of the times.
Miss I.ucy Reed, daughter of the Adelaide manager
of the Bank of Australasia, has reached England,
via Rotterdam. She was in Europe when the lid
blew oft'. Miss Stirling, another absentee, has just
got as near her native c-ity as Sydney.
Mrs. A. E. AVigg has taken the T. G. Wilsons’
house in North Adelaide—Dr. Wilson having gone
to the war. Apropos of which the Swifts are on
their way back from England, and the Humphrey
Martens, who have been in their house, will inhabit
the late Mrs. W. Milne’s —a door or so further along
Brougham Place.
Guy Makin, youngest son of Colonel Makin, is
engaged to your Miss Jones, who spent some weeks
here in the winter. (You’ll know who your Miss
Jones is, of course.)
The Gordon Spicers are back from England.
The Melba concert is fixed for November 21, in
the Exhibition Building. If it isn’t an absolute
record-burster as regards both returns and revelry
you are hereby authorised to remove our reputation
for Charitableness and jump upon our name for
Culture.
Alice Grant Rosman has delayed the publication of
her. new book till the end of the War. People are
only interested in military fiction nowadays.
October in Adelaide and over all the southern
parts of the State was easily the driest on record,
though up-country did fairly well out of two mon-
soonal disturbances. The city has had only Bfin.
in the whole of this year, and on the 24th the
thermometer touched the record figure for October
—lO2 degrees. Gardens everywhere are wilted, and
the underground springs of the fertile Adelaide plain
are being rapidly exhausted by hundreds of wind-
fiiills which have sprung up over wells and bores.
Yours sincerely, Johanna.


f, ■
'
s** * ,
' •
7
JjHSSWtEWaswi
kTS ON'S
Sftf
' } ■- ::
IF/
-
' 1
•1
i* . ;
>
:,V '»• i
ili S I
«-.IM
»
■ ,
*
ft It.
•’. - .. -
' . • . ■ t ■ - V ; •
-Fine
SS
DEI« row!
mAk':,
"
31
.-. d Guac i anfe« ?s^
. I Dundee '
•
'. * •/ ' ' ' •' •'-;_• r •
.* w .* V’ ' . , . j
mm
mm
*•- ' , 7“V , , ...\S‘. ; -: "
Ckf jcotlWD .' - ~'
‘ t V
: '•■•>■•- . . •
Of SCOTLWO • . ■'• ■ '■■
•-• ' '; :v
' • ‘ • <■ '. . •
* • v?. % \\ :
>■ ’
v- : ;-
&>s§s
■i'/
1838^8
Sl»&3
ISKMs:
7. »| rn
... *i.
3MK
sw— ™
v.'TTV
»$a
:■■:■■ ■
ass®*
' i
■
■
' ■ ' -.
■ • ■ -.;• '■ ,
_
*>, • '; iX|S§ll§sS
"• ■
. '
*«at: s**-.-*;
&
*
M
§ '
.. :
■
■' . X ■
■'■■2
■' • :
7-7><i
-7 V
riA*V :


We invite you to buy a box of “ De
Reszke ” Cigarettes and compare them
with any brand you please. Their quality
will appeal to you.
WR
jhmocea,
I
TOUCHES
THE
SPOT
THE PIONEER OF SKIN CURES
No household should be without it.
Fop ECZEMA, PILES, SCALDS, BURNS,
CUTS, BRUISES, SORES, and all Skin
Complaints.
For Free Sample enclose Two Penny Stamps.
LYALL WILLIS & CO..
Sole Wholesale Agents,
127, York Street, Sydney.
ZANETIC INK PAPER copies always; leaves no
mark on back of writing paper. Lasts well, is reli-
able and economical. No sheet genuine if not stamped
Zanetic. 2d. stamps brings two octavo sheets.
Zanetic Works, Leicester, England.*
THE. GREAT REMEDY.
GOUT V
<EL RHEUMATIC PILLS.
The severe pain of Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Neuralgia can be relieved by
BLAIR’S PILLS, the Medicine that has
stood the test of Time. Purely vegetable.
Sure and Safe. Sold by all Drug Stores
and 229 Strand. London, England, in Boxes
at Is. and 2s. 6d.
Wholesale Agents: Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
F, H. Faulding and Co.. Sydney, and others.
A Simple Recipe for Clearing
the Complexion.
Exposure to hot winds and sun makes the
nerves and muscles of the face tired and life-
less, and the skin shrivelled, wrinkled and
unhealthy.
If anyone with a sallow, blotchy, wrinkled
or pimply complexion will only take a little
trouble in following the directions here given
they will find a marvellous improvement in
their complexion. Get some Puritol Wax
from the chemist or draper, and apply at
night, washing off in the morning with warm
water and soap. Then lap a little cold
water 10 times upon the face with the hands,
allowing it to get thoroughly round the
closed eyes. The treatment should be fol-
lowed out in every detail to ensure success,
and undoubtedly accounts for many of the
clear complexions so much admired by those
who do not yet know the secret. See that
you get the right kind, it will not injure the
most delicate complexion.*
HOWARD Watch.
In more than one hundred and fifty highly-
specialised occupations, Howard Time is a ruling
factor.
Call and see the Watch or send for the Illus-
trated Booklet.
PROVDS LTD., Jewellers,
Sole Representatives, 187 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
POLITICAL
POINTS
Westralia has now boomed its net public
debt —the debt which remains after the sink-
ing fund is deducted—up to £94 31s. lOd. per
head. (The term “per head” includes the
infant, of course.) A year ago (1913) the
liability was £B5 16s. 9d. pe- head. So in-
side 12 months the Administration of
Scaddan the Loafer has added about £9 per
inhabitant to the lOU. There is no debt
in the world like that of Westralia. It is
a great record for a country which has
never been struck by war; which has had
no land troubles ; and which has been blessed
by I’rovidenc-e with rich forests, a large
area of fertile soil, and one of the greatest
goldfields on earth. By some process of
gigantic muddling Westralia’s wealth has
been turned to poverty and its gold to em-
barrassment and ashes. When the credit
gives out and the bill falls due the average
Westralian will be poorer than a Chinaman.
A WIRELESS FROM SHADOWLAND.
SHADE OF NAP : “Drop that , you fool!
That's what I tried to do."
BILL OF GERMANY: “Vot? I fie damned if
I do!"
NAP: “ You'll be damned if you don't!"
Whenever the C.S.R. 00. (annual ad-
mitted profit, £510,000) wants to excuse a
rise in the price of sugar, as it.does at pre-
sent, it points out that in “the world’s
markets” the stuff is fetching more than it
is in Australia. “If Australia had to import
sugar, it could not get it for the present
price,” said the chairman the other day.
The argument is none the better for having
been worn to rags. If the Esquimaux had
to import blubber from the Equator
they might have to pay 50 guineas a pound
for it; but that’s no reason why blubber
should sell at 50 guineas a pound in Green-
land.
For the first nine months of this year
Australia imported goods worth £58,416 916,
as against £57,449,595 for the same period
of last year; and it simultaneously exported
£49,081,772 worth, as against £48,785,605
last year. That is to say, it took nine and
a half millions more than it sent away;
whereas, to pay the interest on its public
borrowings, it ought to send away some
eleven millions more than it takes. There
fore it is, in effect, over 20 millions to the
bad thus-far, this year, apart from interest
on private indebtedness. Further, of these
£58,416 916 worth of imported goods less
than half was raw material, so the Com-
monwealth is actually giving away annually
some 30 million pounds’ worth of work that
it could do and badly needs to do itself. The
point that Fisher and Tudor have to keep in
mind, when they introduce their promised
Tariff Act, is that no schedule which fails
to stop this national waste can be con-
sidered effective.
THE RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF
THE S'AFRICAN REBELLION.
Victoria’s amended Factories Act, which
Premier Peacock managed to push past the
local “Upper House,” represents a certain
amount of reform. It makes the Saturday
half-holiday general throughout the State,
except for hairdressers; and it transfers the
Industrial Appeal Court from the control
of any casual Judge who may have a few
odd days to fill in, to that of one Judge,
chosen specially for the job and assisted by
two assessors, one nominated by each side.
But the changes cost an awful lot of time
and money, due, of course, to the slow-
moving action of the mills of Fat.
These Liberal poli-
ticians have quaint
ideas. “Dismal Dick”
Butler, 8. Australia's
Works Minister, started
Joseph Timms going on
the Port Adelaide elec-
tric tramway job the
other day. Then, hav-
ing remarked that, be-
sides this curse, he had
given the Port Social-
istic wharves and a
Socialistic outer harbor,
he proceeded to claim to
be the “good fairy” of
the place—a good fairy
being apparently, in
Butler’s view, one that
supplies the household
with ravening tigers.
Incidentally he men-
tioned that he hoped a
Socialistic graving dock
would be the eoping-
.°f career as an auti-Soeialistic
politician.
One day last week three old legends were
realised. A cablegram mentioned that the
cold snap had started early on the Russo-
German frontier, and that the German
troops, not having yet received their winter
clothing, were inconvenienced. On the
other hand, the Russians, having brought
tvieir sheepskin overcoats along, were doing
fairly well. So the wolf in sheep’s cloth-
ing met the ass in the lion’s skin and hit
him hard. And on the same day it was
reported that the Prodigal Son had returned
from the husks of Egypt and the swine of the
l>lack Sea—in other words, that the Grand
1 izier of Turkey had announced that the
attack on Russia and Egypt was all a mis-
take or a jim-jam or a bad cheque or some-
thing of the sort, and he requested that the
unhappy circumstance might be overlooked.
lou Ward (M.L.) rushed in where a more
modest man would have feared to tread when
he rebuked the British Admiralty for lack
or _ foresight in connection with the sea
defence of the narrow islands. Premier
Massey had just thanked Heaven for Aus-
tralia’s foresight in scraping a sort of navy
together, and keeping the raiding German
cruisers at a respectable distance from M.L.,
when Joe, the giver of unmanned Dread-
noughts, rose and put his foot in it. If he
himself had had sufficient foresight to fall
into line with Australia on the sea-defence
question instead of giving away a ship he
couldn’t afford and leaving his country in
the lurch, things might have been a lot safer
than they are. In any case, the next time
lou considers that the Admiralty has earned
a landsman’s solemn warning he should sit
back and delegate the job to the member
for Mud Springs. If the member for Mud
Springs was too prominent in the presenta-
tion Dreadnought business the representa-
tive of Boiled Pakeha might attend to the
" matter.
The latest complaint issued by the Sydney
Labor Council about the employment of
prison labor is based on the circumstance
that certain bricklaying eonfinees at Long
Bay are at work building a wall, while free
bricklayers are anguished for lack of a job.
It seems a pity that these free artisans don’t
get to work at building a boot or clothing
factory. A very moderate alteration in the
tariff would cause quite a rush of brick-
laying. There must be something rotten in
the State when it imports so much (and inci-
dentally borrows so much to pay for the
imports) that it has to object to a section
of its people working lest (here shouldn’t be
enough toil to go round.
“Abdul Macdonald” writes :• —-
Matters in connection with the riddle whether
Turkey is, or is not, at war are obscured by a
mysterious sum of £10,000,000, which will probably
never be traceable in the accounts, and which was
payable by Germany to Turkey. This cash began
to be mentioned on or about Wednesday, October 28.
On or about Sunday, November 1, Yussef Bey, the
Porte’s Special Ambassador at Berlin, made a fine
speech. He said that “the great hour had arrived
for settling accounts with Islam’s oppressors,” that
“Germany was fighting against a world of envy,” and
that “Turkey was about to take up a glorious posi-
tion.” In spite of these spirited statements, Ger-
many continued to hang on to the £10,000,000.
On or about November 2 and 3 certain proceed-
ings which might be described as bombardments were
conducted by what looked like the Turkish Empire
in the Black Sea. Also, something was done, sup-
posedly by Turkey, at a desert town known as
Akaba, on the Red Sea littoral, and the town was
promptly blown up by British ships of war. At this
stage, what looked like Turkey had every appearance
of being at war on behalf of .Germany, and on or
about Wednesday, November 4, the £10,000,000
seems to have been handed over. From that moment
Turkey, or her simulacrum, lost all interest in the
proceedings. Indeed, the Turkish Prime Minister
gave his personal assurance that, to the best of his
knowledge and belief, nothing remotely resembling
war had ever occurred. The inference is irresistible
that some dastard has falsely represented himself to
Potsdam to be the Turkish Empire, and that by
means of this misrepresentation he has worked the
double cross on the German Empire for £10,000,000.
It is to be hoped that the low hound who stole the
money will get into trouble over it. If he does not
meet his reward in this world perhaps he will in
the next.
Meanwhile, this mention of theology recalls the
difficulty of punishing Turkey. The only place where
you can look for Turkey is in Constantinople. Now,
it is impossible to bombard Constantinople with any
great energy because it is so full of foreigners that
you would kill an ally or a probable ally with every
shell. The Mosque of St. Sofia (described as “the
rustiest old barn in heathendom”) doesn’t matter,
hut the Greek, Italian and Armenian population
matters a great deal. Even the dogs matter. The
only thing to do, therefore, is to accept the Turkish
Prime Minister’s word that nothing lias happened,
and to hope that the dirty dog who stole the money
will come to a had end.
THE LAST RAY.
The States have arranged, through the Common-
wealth, for an Imperial loan of £ 20,000,000.-News
item.
FIRST STATE TREASURER: “Cheer up, mate.
There's the sun at last."
SECOND DITO: “ Hum, yes; but Pm afraid
it’s setting.”
The cheerful Government of is B\y j.
doing its little bit in this time of’stress*
The other members of the great Alliance mav
put up vast armies and navies, and raise
huge internal loans—Britain and Germany
last week asked their respective peoples to
dump £450,000,000 into the hat— and they
NOT WANTED.
Industrial legislation is going to be at a discount
this session. —N.S.W. Parliamentary item.
Mr. Holman puts out the family cat.
may stagger under the orb of empire, and see
the world crumbling around tlieir feet.
Meanwhile the imperishable Holman throws
his shortage into the welter. During the
first four months—July, August, September
and October—of this financial year he spent
£1,016,000 more than his receipts, though he
had the biggest income which the State ever
possessed. So, with all his new taxes, he
is piling up one more deficit, which looks like
amounting to £3,000,000 by the end of the
year. In his own particular line there is
nothing small about Holman.
Germany demanded “a place in the sun.”
It is going to get the next best thing—a
place on the hob.
THE HONOR OF WAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We’ll run from a warship; we’re not built for
fighting. .. .If we meet a transport we’ll have to sink
her. —The captain of the raiding Emden.
These are our rules of war, and the honor of war’s
the same:
Marked cards are always forgiven if only you win
the game.
Cogged dice are the dice of dishonor if the sharper
fails in his tricks.
Load them with lead, and ’tis honest if always you
throw the six.
If ye be not built for fighting, when a ship of war
comes, run.
Sink tfcfe unarmored transport, unless she can fire a
gun.
Fire on the enemy’s wounded or his ambulance, to his
loss ;
But let the Bravest War Lord’s train wear the shield
of the old Red Cross.
For Honor is Rank Dishonor, while the flood of war’s
in spate.
And Mercy is bitterest madness and Brotherly Love is
hate.
VICTORIA.
MIL.
WIRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
....those who formerly called for cheap wire from
Germany will now seek the United States product,
and the United States manufacturers are making them
pay for it more than £2 a ton, or over 25 per cent.,
more than was paid for German wire in the early
months, of the present year.—S. M. Herald.
The fat importer rose in ire.
And in his eyes there shone a fire
Compact of wrath and strong desire.
No longer might he be a buyer,
Or an importer, of cheap wire,
As, for long years, had been his sire!
For lo! the war had come, and dire
Was its effect in town and shire—
Imported goods were all much higher!
He puffed at his cheap German briar,
Which smoked like Freetrade’s funeral pyre,
And struck the loud, lamenting lyre!
“Alas!” lie sang. “We’re in the mire!
We cannot get cheap German wire.
Great Cobden, now my soul inspire!
“What shall I do! Retrench? Retire?
Abandon all I so admire?
Ah, no ! Elsewhere 1 will inquire!
“I’ll write to Uncle Ham, Esquire,
And ask him for a quote for wire,
Although I fear his price is higher.”
.Tust then a traveller, named Dwver,
A really conscientious trier,
Called round to sell Australian wire.
“We make it here,” he said, “this wire:
And though the price is noways higher,
In grade it is a world-defier!”
The fat importer ros'e and snorted,
And Dwyer to the door escorted.
“No good!” he cried. “It's not imported!’’'
n.s.w.
O. C. CABOT.


;
SB
*
I®#
'}J‘-£y
The
Daintiest of
XMAS GIFTS
Can you imagine a more charming
idea in Christmas or New Year
cards than a Zenobia-perfumed
Greeting Sachet?
“All the world and his wife’’ know
Zenobia Perfumes-—the only faithful re-
productions of the scents of such, long-
cherished flowers as the Lily of the
Valley, the Sweet Pea and the Night-
scented Stock. Zenobia Sachets are im-
pregnated with these or other delicious
fragrances.
Made in silk or satin in a large variety
of shapes and tints, and enclosed in
pretty book-form greeting cards. Ask to
be shown a selection.
Wholesale Agents for Australasia:
THE A.M. & I. CO., LTD.,
5-11 Parker Street (Hay market),
Sydney; and 100 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
7ENOBIA
mm /
ďf
Sole Manufacturers:
ZENOBIA LTD., Dept. 72,
LOUGHBOROUGH,
ENGLAND.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
d
«/I*. 2/9 & 4/b. Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectuall y
cuts short ail
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
‘he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Act* llko a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
ď
MODEL “ W ”
INVINCIBLE
DOUBLE-CYLINDER
MARINE ENGINE.
99
“INVINCIBLE
MARINE,
STATIONARY
and PORTABLE.
OIL ENGINES.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
We build “INVINCIBLE” Engines to run on ANY Fuel. When you are considering the
purchase of an OIL ENGINE do not accept the SAY-SO of anybody who is limited to merely ONE
hne. Get ALL the facts. If you come and see us we shall be pleased to givfe you a lot of inside
information about the use of any and every fuel used in internal combustion engines. We know
the WHOLE SUBJECT intimately, right from the first stroke of the pen in the drawing office to
the steady whirr of the engine working satisfactorily in your boat. It is our business; and we
are the leading, largest and most up-to-date firm in this line in Australasia. We design engines,
we make the patterns, we make the engines, we instal them in your boat, and hand them over to
you in running order, GUARANTEED FOR FIVE YEARS. No one can give you a wider range
of choice as to type of engine or power, and, as we have said, we have engines to use
12-h.p. “ GALCOTT” LIGHT CAR,
“Australian Model tie Luxe.”
EVERY GLASS OF
OIL FUEL.
We are the SORE
AGENTS FOR
THESE CARS. We
have plenty of them
in stock, so can give
immediate deliveries.
We guarantee 40 miles
per gallon and 45
miles per hour.
INVINCIBLE MOTOR CONSTRUCTION CO. LTD.
Works: Woolwich, N.S.W. SYDNEY Showrooms: 35 Pitt Street.
BRISBANE Showrooms: 529 Queen Street.
TECHNICAL BOOK
Write us when you want a book on
Trade Subjects.
Textile Books.
PRICE
Post Free.
Textile Raw Materials and their
Conversion into Yarns, 300 Illustrations,
by J. Zipser 13/-
The Dyeing of Woollen Fabrics,
by F. Beach 9/3
How to Make a Woollen Mill
Pay, by J. Mackie 4/8
The Finishing of Textile Fabrics,
Woollen, Worsted, Union and other
Cloths, by Roberts Beaumont 12/10
Spinning and Weaving Calcula-
tions, with special reference to V ,ollen
Fabrics, by N. Reiser 12/9
The Technical Testing of Yarns
and Textile Fabrics, with reference
to official specifications by Dr. .1. Iterz-
fpbl 12/9
The Science of Color Mixing, a
Manual for Dyers, Calico Printers and
Color Chemists, by David Paterson,
F-C.S ' 9/3
The art of Dyeing Wool, Silk
and Cotton, translated from the
French .. 6/5
Principles of Wool Combiner, by
Howard Priestman 7/9
Wool Dyeing, by Gardner 2/2
The Structure of the Wool Fibre,
and Ils Relation to the Use of Wool for
Technical Purposes 10/10
Modern Bleaching and Finish-
ing, by a p-actieal working Bleacher 2/2
Textile Fabrics and their Pre-
paration for Dyeing 2/2
The Textile Manufacturer, a
Practical English Journal.
Twenty-two issues, 1912, 1913 and 1914.
Formerly 1/3 each. The Lot 22/-
Industrial Books.
PRICE
Post Free.
The Soap Maker’s Handbook of
Materials, Processes and Receipts for
every description of Soap, by Wm. T.
Braunt, 1912 30/6
Soaps, a practical Manual of the Manu-
facture of Domestic Toilet and other
Soaps, by Geo. H. Hurst, F.C.S 15/5
Leather Trades Chemistry, a prac-
tical manual on the analyses of materials
and finished products, by S. It. Trotman 18/4
The Launderer, a practical treatise
on the management and the operation
of a Steam Laundry, by 1). H. Ben-
jamin ...' 15/4
Casein, ils Preparation and Technical-
Utilisation! by Robert Scherer ........ • 9/3
Commercial Engineering, by A. J.
Liversedge. This valuable book fills
gap between the completion of the cur-
riculum and the attainment of practical
efficiency in any particular line of busi-
ness. Has chapters on the World’s
Markets 9/4
Lubricating Oils, Fats and
Greases, by George H. Hurst. Gives
their origin, preparation, properties,
uses and analyses 13/-
Manufacture of Paint, by J. C.
Smith 9/4
Watch Repairing, Cleaning and Ad-
justing, by F. J. Garrard, 1914 5/9
Processes of Flour Manufacture,
by Percy Amos, 1912, with 112 illus-
trations 5/9
N.S.W. Bookstall Co. Ltd.
TECHNICAL BOOK DEPOT,
476 George Street
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS),
Sydney
WANTED GOOD
PUBLIC SPEAKERS.
An Invaluable Guide to the
Art of Public Speaking.
NEVER before has there been such a demand for men who can
speak in public. Both political parties are keeping a keen look-
out for such speakers. Organisers of meetings of all sorts find
speakers their chief difficulty. And the man who can deliver an
effective speech has a great advantage over his competitors. For the
man who stutters and stammers and finally sits down after a speech
principally consisting of “urns” and “ers” scarcely enhances his repu-
tation as a keen-witted member of the community, or as a man whose
intelligence and resource can be depended upon in a business crisis.
Moreover, the man who is a practised speaker is never at a loss
for a word, and he scores even in ordinary business interviews. He
presents his points in logical order, and gains his desires when the
ordinary man would fail.
For that reason the “Book of Public Speaking” is an event of the
greatest importance. For it is the first comprehensive work upon this
important subject ever published in this country. It provides at once
a collection of the greatest speeches of the world’s greatest orators,
and at the same time a reliable guide to the Art of Public Speaking.
A FREE BOOK.
The Publishers have prepared an interesting illustrated book—which they will send
free—describing the work and their offer to deliver the complete work as published for a
first payment of 6s. only, the balance being paid by small monthly payments.
To THE STANDARD PUBLISHING COMPANY PTY., LTD.,
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Please send me, free of charge, and without any obligation on my part, full particulars
of “The Book of Public Speaking.”
Name
(Send this form or a post-card, mentioning Bulletin 12114.}
Address


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney.
MILD IN ACTION
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT TILLS A
PLEASANT MEDICINE TO USE.
Mrs. Mabel Maddocks, of 43 Little Mount
Street, Pyrmont. writes: “For constipa-
tion both myself and husband nave
used Dr. Morse’s Indian Root .Pills, and
found their action mild and no griping pains
like, so many other medicines. I find also
my' little girl can take one of your pills
occasionally to regulate the bowels. ion
can use this testimony for publication it
needed.”
In thousands of homes Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pillls are the sole family remedy for all
common complaints, being just as good tor
children as they are for adults.*
Do You Need Money?
If so, write us and we will tell you how
you can make from
£5 to £lO per Week
We are manufacturers of the famous
“Davis” perfumes, soaps and toilet arti-
DIAMOND RAZOR CO
PRICE *5.00
Liii niAMDMp Razor Hqnei
cles, and we
need repre-
sentatives in
every com-
munity.
We illus-
trate one of
our many
combination
boxes —very
popular sell-
ers. You
can make big
money by
selling these
boxes.
If you want
to establish a
business of
your own without investing much money,
where you can earn a good living and
besides accumulate a substantial bank account,
write us today and we will tell you how.
E. M. DAVIS SOAP COMPANY
Dept. EA-10, 222 N. Desnlaines St.. Chicago. U.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Looking back at the Melbourne Cup, wi.li
its three outsiders finishing ahead of the favorites,
St. Carwyne and Ulva’s Isle, the narrow victory of
Kingsburgh admits of more reasonable explanation
than the running of Sir Alwynton and Moonbria. The
winner had been a goer on each day of the A.J.G.
Spring Meeting, and only one of his four races was
bad. In the Metropolitan he was never near the
front, whereas Moonbria finished fourth ; in the Trial
Stakes (10 furlongs), on the first day, he gave 71b.
to Ulva’s Isle and was beaten a neck only ; in the
Sydney Handicap (12 furlongs), on the third day, he
finished second to Barlow and ahead of Moonbria ; ami
in the Waverley Handicap (14 furlongs) he, carrying
Bst., was placed third to Grey Spear (6st. 71b.) and
Alured (9st. lib.), with Moonbria (7st. 111 b.) far in
the rear. Granting that he was of a coming-on dis-
position, like all the Wallace stock, this respectable
Sidney performer had an apparent chance for Ihe
Cup, though it certainly was not brilliant as com-
pared with the chance of St. Carwyne, who was placed
in both the Metropolitan and the Caulfield Cup, and
had beaten some of the cracks in a couple of valuable
w.f.a. events. Still, Kingsburgh was better worth
backing on recent form than either Sir Alwynton or
Moonbria. The latter had done nothing of late
except to run fourth in the Met., whilst Sir Alwyn-
ton, twice beaten at Caulfield, made a poor show in
the Melbourne Stakes behind St. Carwyne. How were
they to beat St. Carwyne and Ulva’s Isle over two
miles? Probably it was superior stamina, rather
than luck, which landed them in their places. This
Cup was the strongest test of stamina in the history
of the rich handicap. Cagou set a pace (and kept it
up for more than a mile and a half) which gave none
of the half-and-half stayers a chance, and caused all
the top weights to feel every ounce of their burdens.
Sir Alwynton carried the respectable weight of Sst.
51b., and Uncle Sam, who was handicapped by a
sprained muscle or a bruised foot, struggled into
sixth place, with 9st. 21b. up. But, of the first four
horses, three carried only 6st. 121 b., 7st. 41b., and
7st. 31b. The race was to the stickers that had been
let in lightly.
W.f.a. form this season was unusually misleading,
because all the old-established cracks have been out
of sorts or short of work. St. Carwyne got undue
credit for having twice defeated Cagou, Lily veil and
Posinatus.at w.f.a. Their running in the Melbourne
Cup proved that the two former are not just now
the horses they were last season, whilst Posinatus is
clearly not a first-class stayer. The gelding won last
year’s Cup from end to end, for the simple reason
that he was never bustled. He did his two-mile
gallop in 3min. 31sec. This year lie rushed to the
front as before, but Cagou came along and bustled
him off his legs. The time for the two miles was iust
ssec. faster than in Posinatus’s year, and the differ-
ence beween 3min, 26sec. and 3min. Slsec. amounts to
fully 85 yards in distance. Lots of horses can stay
two miles.if the pace is not testing them too severely.
Another nag that got undue credit for his recent
w.f.a. form was Ulva’s Isle, who had run third in
last year’s sluggish Cup race. Ulva’s Isle was voted
a “moral” because he beat Cagou, Lil.vveil and Posin-
atus in the Randwick Plate, two miles. But the
blessed cracks were short of condition, as we now can
see, and the time (3min. 29}sec.) was no indication
of what would be likelv to happen in a 2-miles race
run 3Jsec. faster. The Randwick Plate form of
LTlva’s Isle and co. was beaten 60yds. by Kingsburgh
in the Melbourne Crp.
* * * *
Victorian trainers can fairly complain
that local gees get the worst of the handicapping for
the Cups that come in the Spring. An occasional
Uncle Sam or Comedy King wins a Caulfield or Me-
bourne Cup with an “under Bst.” burden; but tnt
large majority of kindly-handicapped winners con (
from N.S.W., whilst Victorian mediocrities are
weighted above their deserts on the strength of tlieu
honest running in petty handicaps during the wintei.
With the exception of Comedy King and Revenue, all
the seasoned horses that have won the Melbourne Cup
under a moderate weight within the past ~0 teals
have come from N.S.W. or (in Blue Specs case)
W.A. Kingsburgh (fist. 121 b.) was preceded by
Posinatus (7st. 101 b., including 101 b. penalty),
Piastre (7st. 91b.), Apologue (7st. 91b.), Blue Spec
<Bst.), Acrasia (7st. 61b.). Gaulus (7st. 81b.). it is
doubtful whether any one of these would have got
into Melbourne handicap so lightly if its public form
and private reputation had been local. Anyhow, it
is certain that second-class Vic. horses, of whose
second-classiness there is no possible doubt whatevei,
are rated higher by the Melbourne handicapper than
a number of possible top-notchers trained in N.S.W.
Moreover, Vic. owners and trainers can complain that
their candidates get no concession from the Sydney
handicapper. Take the case of Moonbria and Sir
Alwvnton as compared with the Vic. horses Eltham
and Rathlea :—•
Metropolitan. Melb. Cup.
Sir Alwvnton (N.S.W.) Sst. 121 b. Sst. 51b.
Moonbria (N.S.W.) .. 7st. 81b. 7st. 31b.
Rathlea Bst. lib. 7st. 131 b.
Eltham . . .. . . Sst. 51b. Sst. 21b.
Whereas the foreigners were rather ill-treated in Syd-
ney, other foreigners were very kindly treated in
Melbourne. As for the allegation that the Metro-
politan weights all round are on a higher scale than
Melb. Cup weights it is only necessary to mention
that the two handicappers put Cagou on the same
mark, and that Ulva’s Isle got lib. less in the Metro-
politan than in Melb. Cup.
* * * - *
f
“E.F.”: Alexandra, the dam of Kings-
burgh, was one of Sol Green’s importations, and came
originally from the late King Edward’s stud. Her
dam was a grand-daughter of Toxopolite on the
maternal side, whereas Carbine, the sire of Wallace,
was a grandson of Toxopolite on the paternal side. In
this there is a nearer approach to in-breeding than in
the pedigree of, say. Uncle Sam. Going a generation
further back in the pedigrees of both Kingsburgh
and Uncle Sam, there is a marked case of inbreeding.
The paternal grand-dam of the Melbourne Cup winner
was a grand-daughter of Fisherman on both sides of
the family, whilst the maternal grand-dam of Uncle
Sam was just as closely related to the same obi
Victorian turf identity. In short, Kingsburgh’s
mother’s mother’s mother was merely first cousin to
his father’s father's father, but two of the great-great-
grandparents of both the Melbourne and Caulfield Cup
winners were first cousins through Fisherman afore-
said. Do you get it? If you go back further and
further into the Stud Book you arrive at the same old
Adam for all thoroughbred horses, and you find it
as enthralling as the Book of Kings.
Les Darcy goes a slep higher.
“0.K.”: When the racing prophets are
put to confusion by the unexpected assertiveness of
three outsiders, as in this year's Melb. Clip race,
there is a great revival of tiie old gibe against the
futility of tipping. But there is never, or hardly
ever, a big handicap race which doesn't offer a more
or less handsome apology for the tipsters’ failures.
This year the dailies and the weeklies (including
The Bulletin) were practically unanimous in ex-
pecting the three favorites—St. Carwyne, Uncle Sam
and Ulva’ii Isle—to finish among the first six, any-
how. Well, they did finish in the first
six; and 23 horses came behind them. And
among those badly-beaten 23 were some well-
known performers who were ignored by a number
of papers, including The Bulletin. The prophets
deserve more honor in their own country than they
get, I turn to (say) the Melb. Amirs selection of
12 horses for the Caulfield and Melb. Cups respec-
tively, when the weights were published in June last
-—and what do I find? The Caulfield dozen included
Uncle Sam and Rathlea, the future winner and
runner-up. The Melbourne Cup dozen included Sir
Alwvnton (second) and Ulva’s Isle (fifth). And
these selections had to be made from about 250
entrants in each race.
* * * *
The last day’s racing was somewhat con-
sistent in its reversal of the form shown on Derby
Day, when the course was soft. The market for the
C. B. Fisher Plate (12fur.) expressed Ikey Mo’s
contempt for the Derby result; betting at the start
was even money against Mountain Knight and 4 to 1
Carlita. Each of those rival Derby horses had won
a race in the meantime; nevertheless in this, their
first time of meeting since the classic event, the
books were practically laying 4 to 1 that the dis-
graced Derby favorite would turn the tables on the
filly. And it was as the market had foretold. Moun-
tain Knight easily beat Cagou by a length, in 4sec.
faster than Derby time, whilst Carlita was another
three lengths away. Also, St. Carwyne finished
lengths behind Cagou, whom he had beaten out of
Sight in the Melbouvne Stakes,
ScTwmlSd" least beat" Posinatus once
again. #
™ v „ r , Handicap (14fur.), the second best
handicap of the meeting, P>oml tojunters.
many* , \va^rs h asainst Moonhr^ 6 and Kingsburgh at the
Fv ; fto Sdin 8 |
1 and 12 to t. Kiiwsburgh looked right
onongh" HS simply The
jg.ag
in&g£
(it’would’have been So'toT't’o'l K
won from end to end of the lfniile gallop, the
public was fairly flummoxed. _
Tlie Steeplechase gave the public a whiff of con-
Swedish Lad, with 12st. 71b. and an ama-
teur iockev (Claude Grice), started favorite, ana
won handsomely. Since he started to j
Caulfield and Flemington the noble son of St Fiancis
has risen from the 9st. to the 12st. division, and
every ride for his gentleman .jock has-been a winning
mount He must have been a lovely celt, foi the
October Steeplechase at Flemington when hr earne
10st 11b and was receiving ISlb. from Big bop.
His next handicap was lOst. 111 b. Then he won as
oasilv as before, with list. 71b. up. Foi his race
l ist Saturdav lie was raised another 111 b., and that
li’idn'f seem- to niake much difference though the
iournev was three miles one furlong. This time he
was handicapped 221 b. higher than Big: Bob, the nag
that had been required to give him 181 b. only five
week's previously!
*****
The “patriotic” race meeting in Adelaide
showed a net profit of 113115. The S.A. Jockey Club
gave £5OO as a start, and members ot its committee
provided the £6OO stake money; the Adelaide Rac-
ing Club ran the meeting, and gave everything re-
quired ; nearly all the employees refunded then
dav’s pav, and several winning owners (including the
Governor-General) handed back the Stakes they won
A cmeslion was asked in Parliament about the :L.,< l
tote-commission. (In South Aus. the Government
takes sixpence of every sovereign invested.) 1 remiei
Peake fancied it would be against the law to torego
this charge; anvway, he said, the Government will
have to give a good deal more than that to the
Patriotic Fund, so it really didn t matter.
* * * *
Les Darcy, the 19-vear-old middleweight
from Maitland (N.S.W.), ‘ had it all over Gus
Christie, of the U.S., at Sydney Stadium on Saturday
night. Darcy’s boxing has improved out of sight
.since Dave Smith took him in hand, and he tights as
furiously as ever. Christie is a perfectly-proportioned
boxer, with a terrific left hook built on the McGoorty
plan, and a perennially-dangerous right upper-cut.
These are about the only hits in his collection, but
if cither of them lands on a normal human being
it is enough. Darcy is not normal. The left hook
of Augustus caught him on the light jaw time and
again, and for the most part he m 'rely smiled, light-
crossed with much violence, and propped a straight
left into tlie enemy’s nose. So the battle raged for
the full 20 rounds. Darcy (in dark-green trouserings,
with a million spots on his youthful back) pursued
Christie (in pale g'reen trunks and the clear skin of
healthy manhood) and belted him almost at will.
Christie’s best —in fact, practically liis only work —
was done in close, but as the contest wore on the
Kangaroo’s superior strength robbed the Eagle of
even this point of vantage. Harald Baker’s decision
was inevitable, and Darcy received it with a grin,
plagiarised from a matinee actor, and directed at the
four quarters of the compass in brisk succession.
Darcy is shortly to be put up against Jeff Smith.
If he gets away with him he will have a fair claim
on the middleweight championship of the world.
Snowy Baker’s Brisbane Stadium was
opened, on Saturday, by Mayor Jenkinson. The big
place was packed to the back uprights. The fight of
the evening was Hill v. Melville for the featherweight
championship of Australia. Jimmy was his old, elu-
sive self from start to finish. His claiming, when in
danger, aroused local experts to enthusiasm. So did
his straight left and his hooks. Still, Hector Melville,
well beaten though he was, didn’t mind them parti-
cularly. Jimmy is a clever boxer, but he hardly hits
with sufficient weight to slay flies. The gloves were
auctioned at the finish, and by this and other
devices £37 was torn from the crowd for the
Patriotic Fund. The tireless “Snowy” is organising
another of his Patriotic Carnivals at this resort at
the end of the month.
* * * *
The defeat of George Chip by Jimmy
Flabby suggests that the worlds middleweight
champion is Jeff Smith, though the Yankee papers
won’t have it so for some reason. Smith has
soundly beaten both McGoorty and Clabby. Chip
has been defeated by them, and so have the rest of
the recognised aspirants to the title.
* -X- * *
Bananaland is moving to have the inter-
state eighf-oar race and champion scull abandoned
next year. It was set down for May, at Brisbane,
but the Northern authorities opine that, as things
are so unsettled, 1916 will be soon enough to get
busy on the big event. The other States will no doubt
agree. Victoria has already done so.
The return of James Paddon has started
an attempt to drag Dick Arnst out of his “retire-
ment” for another Australian sculling championship
tussle. Paddon defeated the ex-Maorilander last
year. Supporters of both parties are willing to
back the winner for another “go” at Barry, and six
months are offered Arnst to get his power back.
Barry, having turned down the tantalising offer of
£5OO expenses for a match on the Parramatta River,
makes it compulsory for the challenger to go to
England.
* * * *
Harry Green, who won the N.S.W.
amateur sculling championship on the Parramatta
last week, made amends for his defeat at Henley
(Vic,). Green’s ability as a single sculler is unde-
niable, but during' the past couple of seasons he
sacrificed his singles by taking stroke seat in the Ma
State’s eight-oar crew. The wide difference in
styles necessary for singles and eight-oar work would
justify Green taking a day off to think it out.
Syd Kemp, who returned with James
Paddon from London, a few days ago, engaged Charlie
Towns’s attention with a challenge to row for the
N.S.W. Championship in one hand, and a side wager
of £lOO in the other. Towns at latest was con-
sidering the best means of investing money after the
race. So was Kemp.
Usually it’s the hoofballer that interrupts
liis game to wallop his fellow-man, but occasionally
the cricketer makes a “push” score bv means of his
raw fist, studded boot, and possibly a handy dead
marine. On Saturday, at Centennial Park, Sydney,
in a junior match, a few well-chosen remarks con-
cerning the scoring-book habits of one side were re-
ceived with such disappointment that it took half
an hour or so and a varied selection of stoush to dis-
prove the allegation. One energetic citizen outed
with a bottle a club secretary who was party to the
discussion, and then separated £2 from him. What
remained of the amanuensis was delivered at the hos-
pital bv the police.
' * * * *
Bananaland has cut a Guy Fawkes figure
in inter-State cricket against N.S.W. In 33 matches
Ma has won 27 and Bananaland six, and the old Min
has invariably been represented by a second-rate XI.
Bananaland cricket calls for' a pained expression
and a coach or two.
Bananaland bowler McAndrews, who took
seven for 51 against N.S.W., has to thank slip-field
J. Sheppard, whose safe hands caught six batsmen in
the first innings. Australia has not owned a good
slip for many years, and the address of Sheppard is
passed herewith to the Australian selection commit
tee As a further reason for remembrance he top-
scored with 33 in Banahaland’s first innings.
.* * * *
Saturday’s cricket in Melbourne was most
conspicuous' for the dreadful plucking of ’Varsity.
M C.O. put them through twice in the afternoon,
once for (52 and then for 34. In the first innings
Armstrong took six for 13. As its little lot M.C.O.
made 160. Kssendon made 271 for three wickets
against 'Cote, and won (Carroll 174 n. 0.). These
were the only two decisive games of the round. Wet
weather, clipping the playing time, made draws of
the others. # # #
N. S. Wales sent down some hot stuff at
cricket on Saturday. Hopkins, at Brisbane with Ma’s
representative team, got, in one innings, five wickets
for 17 ; a second-grade player, at Sydney, secured
eight for 10; and at Bathurst a sudden youth melted
eight of the opposing team for eight.
Adelaide batsmen are so entirely unused
to a moist wicket that they simply don’t know what
to do with one when they get it. A recent Friday
evening shower made the ball “bite” a bit on Satur-
dav afternoon, and Rundell, of the Port, bagged six
North Adelaide wickets for 20 and three for three!
S.A. badly needs someone to help Whitty now that
Crawford has gone.
* * * *
The EngHsh cricket season just ended has
been marked by improved batting performances. In
1913 Mead beaded the list of batsmen with an average
of 50.51 runs. This year, while he increased his aver-
age to 51.58, he is only third on the list, Hearne
(00.45) and Hobbs (58.63) being ahead of him.
Hobbs’s total included 11 centuries. He passed the
200 mark three times. Blythe heads the list of
trundlers with 170 wickets at an average cost of
15.19 runs —good business considering-it was a bats-
man’s season.
* * * *
Playing for Northamptonshire against
Warwickshire during the just-closed Fogland cricket
season, Ceorge Thompson at short slip caught three
batsmen off three successive balls from his club mate,
S. G. Smith. The catches were made off the last three
balls' of an over. Smith bowled another batsman
with the first ball of his next over, so he took four
wickets with four consecutive balls.
* * * *
“Dam” : An unusual law case has about
finished its race in the W.A. courts. One Campbell,
having a valuable racehorse to send from Sydney to
Fremantle, insured it for £425. The gee-gee died on
the vovage. When Campbell came for his £425 the
co. cast doubts on the pedigree of the defunct and
refused to pay. The ease went before the W.A. Chief
Justice, and the co. lost. Then the Full Court took
a hand and found for the co. The High Court next
heard argument, and found for Campbell. There yet
remains the Privy Council. Meanwhile, the books
have refused to do business on the result.
Unless Wilhelm Sauerkraut upsets all
arrangements, Sydney may see a bunch of cycle
speeders in December. Amongst them are expected
A 11. Shenherd (the original 60-mile-an-hour man),
Goullett, McNamara, Spears, Clarke, Grenda, Root,
Gorry, Clark (Vic.) and some Maorilanders. The
48-hours teams race is the honey-pot. Incidentally,
Goullett, with Fred Hill (U.S.) as a team mate, won
the six-days’ race at Boston last week. Australia s
McNamara, with Englishman James Moran as mate,
was second ; and Australia’s old friend, Ivor Lawson
(U.S.) and Drobach (U.S.) rolled home third. The
distance covered by Goullett and Hill \yas not cabled,
hut as the former was in good fettle it is hoped that
a record for the United States has been established.
In that case Goullett's name will be bracketed with
tlie world’s record (at Paris'!, the Australian record
(at Sydney), and the American record (at Boston).
I *' * * *
It is doubtful if the inter-State motor-
cycle trial will take place this year. The co.
which promoted it last year has been badly hit by
the war. Also, it is practically certain that the big
inter-State motor-car reliability trial, from Sydney
to Melbourne, arranged for March, will be aban-
doned.
* * * *
There are some fine combinations among
the 12 teams already nominated for the six hours’
race, to be held on November 28 under the auspices
of the Cyclists’ Union, notably Burtinshaw (Austral-
asian champion) and Pedersen ( champion),
Aubrey Taylor (reappearing after a year's spell) and
IT M Adams. If these two combinations take it
into their heads to steal a lap they will probably
“shake” most of their opponents. R. G. Clark, who
won the final sprint last year, will not be engaged.
He has retired from racing.
IT. V. Hordern, unquestionably the finest
“bosie” bowler Australia has known in modern
times, has decided to drop out of first-class cricket
for good, owing to an injury to his bowling hand.
Generally the drop has to be operated by that long-
suffering party, General Opinion.
GEORGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Did George Coates scratch his name out when he
found that he was not a Parramatta skip? No!
(icorge said, “I'll play anywhere you like, and may
we win.” —Mysterious item from Sydney Telegraph.
hid he falter when the Niblicks charged his Lofter
in the rain ?
Was he staggered at their wild barbaric menaces and
shrieks?
Was the Groundman’s scheme to bend him aught but
profitless and vain,
Though it raged with mad intensity for weeks and
weeks and weeks?
Vo ! George fought for Green and Putter in the good
old British way,
And though heavily outnumbered, ultimately won the
day.
Where the wickets fell like brickbats, and the goals
went down in scores,
While the bails screamed past like buzzards in
retreat before a hearse,
’Mid a seething horde of bowlers, golfers, pugs and
other bores,
There lay George, and smiled the smile of one who
does not care a curse.
'Though the while was in the pocket, and the Ring
had freely laid
Thirty-three to one against him, George was calm
and unafraid.
Whether beating up lo windward or at anchor by
the Quay, •
Or attempting to catch sclmapper on a hechum-
pechum fly,
Or arising like a Phoenix to outflank a referee.
George has shown, without exception, gifts which
money cannot buy,
Namely, patience and good humor and that stolid
cast of face
Which express the Spartan courage and endurance
of our race.
Friends! let George become a Watchword, Sign or
Flamen in your hearts.
Men like George have made the Empire, and are
holding it to-day.
On the golf course and the race-track they are play-
ing gallant parts,
Also on our surfing beaches, ’mid the flying sand and
spray.
Here's to George the fighting bowler, longstop
specialist and man.
Tf you cannot all be like him, be as like him as you
can.
N.S.W.
TALLAN PARK.


ESS
GET MORE EXERCISE
AND BE A
HEALTHIER MAN!
I erljaps you are like the majority of busi-
ness and professional men, whose' duties do
not permit of taking regular exercise.
Maybe you have an idea that exercise is
monotonous V If so, 1 should like you to
investigate my
PHYSICAL CULTURE, MASSAGE and
ELECTRICAL TREATMENTS.
Monotony has no place in my treatments.
My scientific massages are a luxury, and a
great benefit. They give you that youthful
vigorous and contented feeling of the physi-
cally fit.
If you are bothered with too much fat my
massages will rid you of your surplus condi-
lion. and leave you less susceptible to the
heat of summer.
My BOXING COURSES are complete,
thorough, and scientific. They cover every
detail of the game. Business men who enjoy
boxing are specially catered for.
STRICT PRIVACY AND PERSONAL ATTENTION
ASSURED EACH STUDENT-
Fritz Holland
Physical Culture and Boxing, Hydro*
Electric Bath and Massage Institute,
B.M.A. BUILDINGS, 32 ELIZABETH STREET,
near HUNTER SfREET, SYdNEY.
Telephone : citi 1002.
Club Royal’ Cigars
as Xmas Gifts.
Why not cigars as
Christmas gift? There’s
nothing a smoker appre-
ciates more.
But give him something
extra special in flavor,
aroma and quality—give
My
Club Royals.
They fire hand madt
from the finest Havana
leaf, rich in aroma, mild
and delightful in flavor
They are put up in hand
sdme Cedar Cabinets of
SO ; ; 207-
Postage in N.S.W., Od. :
Inter-State, 1/2.
My catalog, "A Discrim
inating Smoker’s Guide,’
illustrates Cigars, Cigai
ettes, Pipes and all
classes of smoker’s requi-
sites. Send for a fra
copy.
A. M. Solomon,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
si
“SHELL”
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
BENZINE.
OXO*
cles
SCO
HEND
7-h.p. Twin, Free-engine,
3-inch Tyres, £6B.
Hen dee Manufacturing Co.
109 Russell Street, Melbourne, VIC.
Send for Catalog' D.
STYLE, SERVICE AND COMFORT
are what you get in every 111 ONE Y SHOE.
I They are made for men who like style and
exclusiveness in their footwear, because they
realise that a man may be otherwise fault-
lessly attired, and yet have the well-dressed
effect entirely spoiled by a pair of ordinary-
looking shoes.
The illustration shows a Patent Calf Oxford
Shoe, latest perforations. A high-grade,
“Made-to-order” Style.
Price - - 27/6
Also in Tan and Black Velour Calf. 25/-
and 27/6.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
f
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors ”
317 George Street end 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY
at Clty B "‘ ldlt >Bs- Edward Street, BRISBANE.
KRUSE'S
FLUID MAGNESIA.
©.do ffidOal,
dalctma. 1883.
l/DIIQC'P
FLUID MAGNESIA
sm .us m m mim n mu
sx *xv*«\.vv' .\ v vv 'a: v m mvax\\ x w A » va t »
V\.VVV» *«{% \x v'.\'»V*\Si'A\; Y\'#i «VV XVAVV
wv xmm’to .vwxvau'
*A'\.'.V V\\VOAVA' WVv'.W.W W'is thtt
>.v »\'XN Xmmr Xx'SA *m« .WWHIUU
Vi' iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiii iii. iiiiiiiHi i^i»«Cl»
FfLTBN. CRIMWAD'rrcr'MfLBOURKE.
I he Australian Remedy for
Indigestion,
Biliousness and
Acidity of the
Stomach.
A MILD APERIENT FOR
OLD AND YOUNG.
ALLAYS FEVERISH CONDITIONS DUE TO
VACCINATION AND TEETHING. A COOL-
ING MEDICINE FOR SPRING AND SUMMER.
Sold by Chemists and Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
• • '
:>
*r
POST YOUR ORDERS.
No matter where you live or
what you want in the way
Of Clothing and Dress Acces-
sories, post your orders to
ns. We Guarantee Satisfac-
tion under penalty of a full
refund.
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
Pty. Ltd.,
Flinders Btreet. Melbourne.
Suits for
the
Tropics.
The Suits shown
here have been
manufactured sim-
ply and solely for
wear in Tropical
Climates. Combin-
ing Comfort, Suit-
ability, Style and
• Service in a maxi-
mum degree, and
at the minimum
price they cannot
fail to fall in com-
pletely with your
..requirements.
WHITE DRILL SUIT,
15/6 (Post Fifir).
No' Underwear is needed
w’lth this Suit, beyond a
bight Singlet. 2-garment-
Tailor-Made iii i'ine White
Drill that is guaranteed to
come through the Wash
unharmed. Coat with
Patrol Back. Stand Collar,
1 Patch Pockets, Detach-
able Shank Buttons. Trou-
sers with Side Pockets
and Cuff Bottoms.
GREY FLANNEL SUIT,
25/- (Post Free).
2-Garment Perfectly Tail-
ored in Light Flannel of
exceptional quality. Coat
with Seam and Vent at
Back, Side Patch Pockets.
I aside and Outside Breast
Pockets. Trousers with
permanent Cuff Bottoms,
Side Pockets, One Hip
Pocket with Buttoning
Flap, Belt Loops, Hip
Straps, etc.
OUR NEW CATALOG
is Gratis and Post Free.
Write for Your Copy
TO=DAY.
: i
-
LINCOLN, STUART & CO. PTY. LTD.
“ Outfitters by Mail ” FLINDERS STREET. MELBOURNE.


'/V
■ iiM
\v
i
/ ' , ,
/ . i
S«S
■
i
m
■
21
The Return of
Tulle to Fashion.
CJ Tulle is so soft, so delicate, so
dainty, so feminine in its loveliness —it imparts
such youthful appearance to the wearer that
nothing could stem the tide of its return to
popularity.
<| When buying Tulle do not be content merely
to ask for “Rainproof Tulle”—say “'Dy-
namo’ Rainproof Tulle, please, and look for
the name on the card on which the Tulle is wound.
CJ This is important, because even a mist will
d
ruin the most expensive ordinary
Tulle; but “Dynamo” is
waterproof. When wet jou
simply shake it until dry. It
immediately regains the appear-
ance it had when new.
If “Dynamo” Rainproof Tulle does not stick
to the fingers when handled. Its fresh crispness,
its lustre and beauty of colouring are not
impaired by exposure to the strongest sunlight,
and it never becomes tender or limp.
:
REPROOF Tulle
36 ins. wide. In Black, White
and all fashionable shades.
9d., 10id., 1/-, 1/3 and 1/6
per yard upwards.
O, AU the best Milliners use “Dynamo" Rai proof
Tulle. All the best Stores sell it by the yard. >ut
be sure you get the genuine. The name is on the end
of the card on which the Tulle is wound. If any
difficulty in obtaining locally, send direct to address
below stating co'our, quantity and price per yard, and
we will see that you are immediately supplied.
“DYNAMO” ENQUIRY EEPT.,
Carlton House, York Street, Sydney.
Fisher's Advertising Agency.
jg’Hblt POMADE for THE HEAD
Strikes infesting vermin dead. One applica-
tion destroys vermin, kills nits, heals sores, cures
ringworm, and makes the hair grow thick ana
curly. Kills lice on live stock.
Sydnev Agents: Talbots, 206 George Street,
and Washington Soul. Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, or posted from J. Brin, Chemist,
East Malvern, Vic.—l/2, 2/3, 3/9, and with Nit
Comb. fid. extra. .
In preparing your Motor Car for
Summer Travelling don’t forget a
“HOSGIEL”
TWIN=COLOR
MOTOR RUG.
Made in Color=tones to match the
Car! Superbly Beautiful and
Luxuriously Comfortable.
Sold at ail
the Best Shops.
[2
Hotel Stewart
SAN FRANCISCO
A. high-class hotel very favorably known to
travellers from Australia, New Zealand ana
the Orient. Headquarters for Britishers in
San Francisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. Third annex just completed. 350
rooms. 250 connecting bathrooms. Every
comfort and convenience. Beautifully fur-
nished. Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping, theatre
and cafe districts. On street car lines to all
parts of city. Our omnibuses with uni-
formed attendants meet all steamers and
trains. Travellers are urged to make reser-
vations by letter or wireless to be assured
the most satisfactory accommodation. Cable
address, “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals, 16s. a day and up.
Rooms without Meals, Bs. a day and up.
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
Proprietors.
You Will Be Astonished
How It Removes Wrinkles.
TOILET TALKS.
SIMPLICITY is the order of the day as
regards beauty culture. Many women
regularly visit the specialist to have their
wrinkles ironed out with the help of hot
applications, cold creams and massa Sf-
Most of us realise that there comes a time
when no amount of persuasion of this so
will avail. This process of ‘wrinkle remov-
ing” is wrong in principle. Both
the hot water and the massag-
ing tend to expand and loosen
t!ie skin, besides softening the
muscular foundation. The very
opposite result should be aimed
at. The tissue should be strength-
ened and the skin tightened to
smooth out the wrinkles. lor
this purpose ordinary parsidium
jelly, obtainable at all chemists,
may be used with beneficial
effects. Get about one shilling’s-
worth and apply like cold cream.
The face will quickly look years
younger.
IT is astonishing the number of women
whose faces show a more or less pro-
nounced growth of superfluous hair, and it
is much to be regretted that through lgnor-
auce or wrong treatment, the majority ot
them have made matters considerably worse
by causing the hairs to grow more quickly
and stronger than before. It only requires
a little thought to realise the folly of it all.
Removing the surface growth for a few days
may give temporary relief, but in order to
obtain permanent results the hair roots
must be killed. Caustic depilatories are
worse than rseless, and on no account
M
H
should the hairs be pulled out. Apart from
the electric needle, which is a costly ana
painful process, any chemist will tell you
that the most reliable home treatment is
pure powdered pheminol. This substance
has a devitalising effect upon the hair roots,
in addition to which it removes all trace ot
the objectionable hair in a few seconds, me
recommended treatment gradu-
ally. but surely, dissolves out the
hair follicles, which is the only
method of permanently ridding
oneself of this embarrassing
disfigurement.
OW often do you see one
of the old-fashioned pow-
der pots on your friend’s dress-
ing table? Not very frequently,
I am sure. Th.ev are fast being
converted to a more useful pur-
pose. The truth of the mattei
is, women are. at last beginning
to realise that powder is the
“root of all evil’’ as far as their
complexions are concerned,, at any rate, and
are wisely discarding the powder pun
for that ' ordinary, innocent-looking sub-
stance known as cleminite. What they
do is to obtain about an ounce from
their chemist and dissolve it in four table-
spoonfuls of water. This gives a lotion
which immediately imparts a delightful
bloomy appearance to the skin; removes tnat
horrid greasy appearance, and renders pow-
dering quite unnecessary. The result lasts
all day long under the most trying condi-
tions, and what is far more important, im-
proves the comnlexion ins tend of 1 n ’ ’’’ l " "
illliniu^lllUUl>U«llUlllUUlgg*M^
PGBCCO
TOOTH PASTE
BEING MADE IN AUSTRALIA, there has been
NO ADVA N CE IN PRICES.
Obtainable All Chemists.
Trial Tube, with useful book and
interesting test, free for three
penny stamps on application to
THE MANUFACTURER-
G. ARNOLD (Department A), 6 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
(Wholesale Only).
rii
&
W'
I
7/i
///// 7
0
WORLD OVER
OOW much longer are you going
** to keep on coaxing that razor of
yours —stropping it, fussing with it,
making your face sore and tender
into the bargain ?
Get a Gillette Safety Razor to-day. It is the
one razor for cool,quick,clean,efficient shaving.
The shave you want and ought to have.
You can adjust the Gillette to suit your beard and
skin. You cannot do this with any other razor.
Gillette Standard Sets, One Guinea. Sold eveiywheie. Wiite
for illustrated and descriptive Booklet. Please mention this paper.
AGENTS FOR
S. HOFFNUNG & Co.,
AUSTRALASIA:
Ltd., Pitt Street,
G.LLEi'l.e fcAPIVIY KAZ.OK LTD., LONDON^
Sydney.
ENGLAND.
HO STROPPING HO HONING
ďf
The Inky Way.
*Rhyme patented in the United Kingdom, Channel
Islands, Oversea Dominions and America.
* * * *
“Lord Penman”: Australian daily news-
paper readers are getting very weary of the
"military experts” who do war notes. He
of Melbourne Age writes as a sentimental
mother talks in trying to persuade her child
that castor oil isn’t nasty, and that salts and
senna taste like chocolate cream. W hen
Brussels fell the loss really didn’t matter;
and when the Germans advanced on Paris
and looked like getting it, the fall of Paris
wouldn’t matter either. Antwerp, on the
other hand, would matter if it fell, but it
couldn’t fall; it was so well fortified that all
attempts at siege would be farcical. Then
Antwerp did fall, after 40 hours’ bombard-
ment, and the military expert of the Age
shot off this : “It will not be long before the
Germans begin to find out that the capture
of Antwerp, in itself a brilliant operation,
will not be a gain, but a loss to them. Let
them rejoice and celebrate the occasion;
then the awakening to facts will be the
more bitter.” The foolishness of it! If
the Allies are driven back and Paris is taken,
Paris won’t matter, because the real battle-
ground of the war will be in the Republic of
Andorra!
* * * *
Lismore (N.S.W.) has to manage nowa-
days with only one daily. The Northern
Star, proudly boasting a seven-thousand cir-
culation, is the survivor, and the Daily
News has been squeezed out. However, it
bobbed up again on Oct. 1, in a new form,
and now calls itself the Weekly News.
* * * *
“Derifos” : Thanks for a genial paragraph
from “Kaniva” about my Imperial Review.
The price of ninepence is printed on it. I
never expect any notice from an Australian
newspaper. Yet from the American and
English press it is possible that this maga-
zine lias received more notice than all the
other Australian ones put together. It is
at all events mentioned in the last Encyclo-
paedia Britannica and the two last
editions of Chambers’s Cyclopaedia. Hardly
any other Australian magazine is mentioned
by those cyclopaedias. One of the notices
was written by Stead. The Imperial, what-
ever its demerits, is genuine work. It does
not give you a sheaf of handbills. Wisdom
of many and wit of one. Wliat a treat it is
for a writer to be able to bring out exactly
what is in him ! Our best Australian writers
go pot-boiling all their days. If a .man has
stuff called copy to slop out, he lights his
briar-pipe, and off he goes. I asked one of
the best the other day why he never did any-
thing worthy of his genius—whatever he
has. “Well,” says he, “you have your baby,
and the wife also has hers.” _ I hope this
won’t be misunderstood. It’s in a sort of
Pickwickian sense. Why is not Kipling a
Dickens? I have known most of the most
gifted contemporary Australian writers. All
disappointed men. I’m not. What a grand
thing that is to say in your own cabbage
garden!
* * * *
David R. Hay, inky wayfarer and fellow
of infinite chess, passed out at Melbourne the
other day. He landed in Maoriland from
Scotland when he was 20, and in the
Dunedin Mercury (since swallowed by the
Otago Witness) started the first newspaper
column devoted to chess and draughts in
Australasia. Of late years he looked after
the same department of Melbourne Weekly
Times, and made his last move at the age of
70 ' .
An old traveller on the Inky Way died at
Alphington (Vic.) on October 21. Edward
Albert Potts was from the ’7o’s connected
with the Collingwood Observer, a demo-
cratic paper which, in those days, had a
circulation rivalling that of the Melbourne
dailies. Potts took up the case for Protection
with great spirit, and his paper became a
marked influence. When it died, about 10
years ago, he took his pen over to the
Observer’s one-time bitter rival, the Fitzroy
City Press, and kept it busy till six months
ago. * * *
* * *
“Penman”: Pius X. was the first journa-
list-pope. As Cardinal Patriarch, of Venice,
he founded and edited II Difesa, and it
quickly became the leading orthodox news-
paper of Venice. He put in all his spaie
time gondola-ing about after subscribers, and
otherwise promoting its circulation. .Also
he urged his flock to read it, and so did all
the priests in his Cardinalate. As an adver-
tisement canvasser he had a tremendous pull
over the laity. He threw in a blessing with
every contract. Il Difesa has just affixed
a tablet to its new office with the iuscnntinn
on it: “To the memory of the Pope in
Venice.”
NOISES IN THE HEAD.
(An imitative rhyme about nothing in particular.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lo! I lift my chant Australian and I feverishly fan
Feet and face of many an alien* with my golden
warming-pan !
Aye! on patent clockwork pinions, made of swans-
down white as snow,
I rise up and flap, while minions stand amazed to
hear me crow.
Hear my shrieks ring down the ages! In the corri-
dors of Time
Long-dead soldiers, kings and sages spring to life at
every rhyme.
And the Oyster Bloke of Sparta and the Bottle-0
of Tyre
With the Goth and Hun and Tartar leap from Hell
with hair on fire.
Ho! I hymn all God’s creation, and my vestments
rosy-red / , ,
Flap in splendid agitation while the doves wheel
overhead ;
And the incense from my altar corkscrews thinly to
the place t
Where the HansJrd angels falter as they note my
booming Grace.
As St. Peter sadly listens, my reverberating prayer
Thrills the angel throng that glistens—makes their
praying champions stare.
When it ends clouds burst asunder, and the breath-
■ less, lieav’nly pause
Is extinguished by the thunder of Most Eminent
Applause.
N.s.w.
GRANT O. LOUD.


NO RIFLES FOR GERMANY!
WORK FOR AUSTRALIANS!
DO not buy German goods, thus sending your money
to Germany to help provide rifles for German
soldiers ; and do not excuse yourself on the grounds
that the German pianos you would buy are already in
Australia how do you know the importer has paid for
them yet ? Most of these goods are paid for only some
little time after landing, and for hosts of German pianos
now in Australian stores the makers have not vet received
their monev.
Keep your money in Australia ! Provide work
for Australians ! Buy an Australian Piano ! Australian
craftsmen are as capable of making first-rate pianos
as any in the world, especially when acting under the
direction of such a world-famed expert as Mr. G. D. Rose,
who is lecognised everywhere in the Trade as probably the
greatest living expert in tone production.
Satisfy yourself by personal inspection that Beale Pianos
are worthy of your support. We have sold over 21,000 of
them in Australia and elsewhere, and everywhere they are
giving the utmost satisfaction. The Governor of New South
Wales, Sir Gerald Strickland, K.C.M.G., is at present
using a Beale Piano at Government House. Her Excellency
Lady Fuller, wife of a Governor of Victoria, personally
selected a Beale Piano from our Showrooms in Melbourne
for the use of herself and daughters. Lady Northcote, wife
of the ex-Governor-General, personally ordered a Beale
Piano after inspection of our factories, methods of work and
S} r stems of construction. Phe Beale Pianos were awarded
the Grand Prize and three Gold Medals at the Franco-British
Exhibition in competition wflth the world’s best British and
foreign makes. Leading musicians and great educational
institutions throughout Australia have had numbers of
Beale Pianos in daily use for years, with complete satisfac-
tion. With every Beale Piano we give a written guarantee
for 25 years, and this guarantee is the most comprehensive
warranty ever applied to a musical instrument.
We use only the very finest materials, the highest
skilled workmanship and the most up-to-date systems of
construction in making Beale Pianos. They are specially
made to withstand the Australian climate, and contain
improvements of undoubted value.
Support Your Own Country!
Buy a BEALE PIANO !
CASH OR EASIEST TERMS.
CATALOGUES FREE.
2.
3.
5.
6.
7.
And here are a few more facts for your consideration
—a few distinct advantages for yourself.
1. \ou Make a Big Saving in Price, Quality for Quality.
roil buy your Beale l'iano direct from the factory, without paying
profits to any middlemen or agents, and without paying the 35 per
cent. Customs duty (equal to 7s'. in every £, or £55 in every £100),
which is charged upon imported [pianos. We do not claim to supply
as good a piano for £5O as importing houses will supply for £100; hut
our iol) Beale Piano is a better musical instrument than an imported
piano at £BO.
You get a Better-toneil Piano.
Beale Pianos have a most harmonious, mellow, delightful tone. They
contain the only successful steel tuning-system ever invented, and by
means of this device the tuning-pins are held firmly for all time,
confining 'dll sound to the Sounding hoard, which is the only proper
construction. This invention makes the piano more durable, because
Ihe iron frame atone hears all the’tremendous strain (nearly 30 tons)
ot the two hundred and sixteen tightly-stretched steel strings. This
construction cannot he had in any other pianos. Twenty thousand
pianos have been made by us on this principle.
A Better-toned Piano because, also, of the Violin-like Sounding-
Board.
Only Beale Pianos contain sounding-boards constructed on the same
principle as a violin-belly. This.construction, and our secret sounding-
board varnish, are responsible fdr that splendid tone which wins such
tavor with singers especially. The Beale tone is sympathetic, sweet,
mellow, sonorous and lasting. The tone of Beale Pianos, beautiful at
first, improves with use. This is a sure test of an artistically con-
structed piano.
You get a Longer-lasting Piano.
Beale Pianos are made in the Australian climate, of timber seasoned
in the Australian climate, so they will withstand the Australian
climate better than pianos which tire made in cold, wet countries.
Your Beale Piano will have a Better Touch.
We supply a better “action”—ohe of the most expensive parts of the
instrument —in Beale Pianos than you find in any other pianos of
similar price. We supply the recognised best action in the world in
even our £74 Beale Pianos, whereas you must pay not less than £lO5
tor an imported piano containing the same action-system. It provides
that perfect touch demanded by master-pianists.
You Gain by the Unique Experience of probably the Greatest
Piano Expert in the World.
Associated with the founder of this Company (Mr. O. C. Beale) is
Mr. George D. Rose for many years Technical Director of Messrs.
John Broadwood & Sons, London, now acting exclusively as our
Technical Expert and Factory Manager. Mr. Rose is the third
= lo n m las My to devote a lifetime to high-grade piano
making. H e has had a unique experience in all branches of the art
in the best piano factories of England, Germany, France and America,
and is recognised in Europe as probably the greatest expert in tone-
production in the world. He has invented epoch-making improvements
in pianos. He was for over twelve years President of the British Piano
Makers Association. No other piano-maker in the world has had such
a wide and varied experience as Mr. Rose.
You Gcf a Written Guarantee from Us—the MAKERS—for
Twenty-five Years.
No other maker guarantees his pianos for such a lengthy period—ten
yeais is the usual thing. But we know how Beale Pianos are con-
structed, and we know they will last longer than any others. In any
case, if you buy an imported piano you will find that the guarantee
(it any) thereon will not be of much value to you, as the maker is
iii Europe, twelve thousand miles distant from you ; whereas we are
heie, in Australia, with all our interests in Australia, ready to support
our guarantee on the spot.
You are Safe in your Investment, because you Buy from by far
the Largest Piano-Sellers in Australia, whose Name is
worth more in Pounds sterling than any other.
Gin reputation for fair dealing has been built up during many years,
and you are safe in buying from us, because we stand to lose more, in
actual cash investments than would any other piano firm in the
Commonwealth, if we do not keep up the high quality of our pianos
and our name for fair, liberal treatment of those who buy from ns.
Our investments in this business total more than Three hundred
thousand pounds (actually £325,000). You may be sure that if only
for our own sake we shall take every care to treat you liberally and
straightforwardly.
Only Beale Pianos have Quite Reliable Bass-Strings.
You. know that in all pianos the strings (steel wires) in the bass
portion are wound with copper or other wire to make them heavier
and thus afford the necessary slow vibrations. In Beale Pianos these
steel wires are six-sided, instead of round, and thus afford a firm grip
for the copper winding. Consequently no Reale Piano ever develops
buzzing noises caused by loose binding of the bass-strings. Other
pianos have round steel wire in the bass, affording no secure grip for
the copper. Six-sided steel wire costs more than twice as much as
the round.
You Get a Piano which is Built Only of Tested Parts.
Every part—-every detail of every Beale Piano is tested and scrupu-
lously examined before it is embodied in the instrument. The
slightest flaw in material or workmanship and the part is entirelv
rejected.
Your Beale Piano is Guaranteed against Damage in Transit.
We take the entire risk of damage in delivery of the Beale Piano right
up to your door; you take no risk. If it should be damaged by anv
mischance we make it good, or supply another piano of equal quality.
In case of Damage while in Use, your Beale Piano is Easiiv
Repaired.
We are the makers of the Beale Pianos, and our factory is here in
Australia. Therefore, should any part of your Beale Piano be
damaged through accident or carelessness, we can always supply new
parts at low cost, and the piano is restored as good as new ' How
could you obtain new parts for a foreign piano? The agents do not
carry stocks of spare parts, and they have no factory facilities for
making them, either. We can make or renew any part of any Beale
Piano at any time.
THINK IT OVER.
If you make a careful study of such advantages as other firms offer vou
and compare them with the foregoing, you are sure to come to the conclusion
that you will be getting most benefit by obtaining a Beale Piano Studv
what we have said above —think it all over—and you will say that'it is just
simple commonsense reasoning.
8.
10.
11.
12.
BEALE CO., LTD.,
Head Office and Factories: TRAFALGAR, NELSON and COLLINS STREETS, ANNANDALE, N.S.W.
City Showrooms: 136a-136b LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
George Street, Bathurst
Yass Street, Young
Wagga
Lismore
Orange
70 Hunter Street, Newcastle
Argent Street, Broken Hill
131 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A
839 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
273 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
Townsville Rockhampton
Maryborough Cairns
Mackay


(the Inventor Mr. ROBERT RADFORD (the well-known
of Wireless Telephony) suffered frgjß Ba*. Singer) have greatest
iUStiVSItfOC _
some conditions, or for defection, Old lt'imrtie- voca ]| y re | axct j > phosferine immediately restores
diately renews the strength of my nerves, and resonance an( j brightness to the voice, baflishes
exercises a stimulating effect on the whole of | ass jt u( J ei and generally tones up the system."
the nervous —63, Haverstock Hill, London, England.
ng
vJVEHLEN, the talented and charming
have used Phosferine with really
general health. The unusual exertions
(sals make one nervously anxious and
much 'induces dull
ffectually
tonic for
lotes the
HONORED
-ROYAL
COMMAND,
Mr. B. C. HUCKS (the w
Inglishman to " Loop ths ;
rally must express my ap]
*pe back I felt myself in ;
arought on, no doubt, by the
indet all sorts of weather co
our last summer. I had an
becoming shaken. 1 was advised
rpnte astonished at the beneficial __
the first few doses. I am now
and ready to start upon a season s flyin
considerable more arduous than the I asp
London, fsnglood
Miss EM
Actress, v
excel
and
W- J
ti c
M
mtracu-
SR
lose
i m
m
fiat promises to q
’—ll6, Plccadillj
'hosferine
nval
High
mother an
her i
>g dreary
weather.
order, and
f as my
i, Eng.
At the hands of any Chemist this is what you should obtain
PHOSFERINE i* n World-wide Remedy for
Indigestion
Anaemia
Insomnia
Lassitude
Debility
Neuralgia
Loss of Appetite
AH Nerve Trouble
Just 5 to 10 drops of this golden remedy in a wineglass of water.
The original and Genuine PHOSFERINE is in buff packages, and be particular to
motireth .ti> is spelt P-H-O-S-F-E-R-I-N-E. Price—l/, 2/6 & 4/6. If you find any diffi-
culty in obtaining supplies send Postal Note to Ashton 8c Parsons, 408 Colling St. Melp.
IftlilHElrllW
CROWS MOUSTACHES
QUICKLY !
<T
All who want a
smart moustache
should use this ex-
cellent preparation.
Safe, sure, satisfac-
tory, Oapillarine
never fails.
TRY A JAR—
-10/6 post free.
Craig & Aitken,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established Over 30 Years.
THE youth of a
Nation is its
strength The
strength comes
from the Food.
SALT
provides the sub-
stance for Bone,
Brain and Nerve.
d
Price 12/- and upwards ofall Station-
ers, Jewellers, and Stores. Bjoklet
about the Onoto Pen free on app i-
cation to Thos. he la Rue & Co ,
Ltd., 322Bunhill Row, London, E.C.,
or the Australasian Representatives
Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York
Street, Sydney.
Ask for ONOTO INK—
Best for all Pens,
Get the
Pen made and warranted by the
Largest Firm of Fountain Pen
Manufacturers in Great Britain :
the Onoto. It is All-British ;
designed to last a lifetime. Fills
itself, cleans itself, and cannot
leak.
Onoto
The Self filling
Safety Fountain Pen.
Pen
ARE
an;
EARPHONE
GIVES PERFECT HEARING
The object of the Danjhill
Earphone is .to enable
deaf people to hear.
Bv simply wearing a Danihill Earphone a deaf person can sit in a room and hear
all the conversation with perfect ease. It collects sounds from all directions without
losing anv of their strength.
It transmits the voice clearly, and can be used in a Public Hall, Theatre or Church.
For years past .Ter(lans -Ltd. have been successfully attending to the eye
troubles of the public.
If your eyes fail you naturally take to spectacles.
Why not let us treat your ears with the Danjhill Earphone? The result
will be perfect.
SOLE. AGENTS;
JERDAN’S LTD.,
393 George Street, City.
My Opticians,
Pabis House, Ltd. (Sydney), which paid
£10,500 for the goodwill and fixings ot a
Sydnev eating-house as from March, Uii .
Deficit
Writ- (exclusive
ten of
March, Profit. Dividends. Off. Goodwill).
1912 .. £195 TJp.c. = £9<s Ml £ 1 80
1913 . . 475 Nil £2165 3420
Profit, _
iqii 1121 Nil 4328 6627
Reserves.
Capital written off, £7OOO .. 3<3
1914’ .. 3152 Nil 667 2858
On a paid capital reduced to £7OOO this con-
cern, with even decent management, ought
now to show a good return; and on the
figures of the past 18 months it will do so
as soon as it has got rid of the mess into
which the co. either rushed or was flung.
At present, certainly, there's too much debt
—mostly debenture —to make any kind ot
dividend safe. Good progress is, however,
being made in getting things ready :
Mar.,’l4. Sept.,’l4.
Assets apart from goodwill and
leases .. . . •• •• £10,356 £10,747
Liabilities .. • • ■ • 10,734 8,357
Surplus assets .. . . —* ■ £2,390
Excess liabilities.. .. £378
When tangible assets have been accumulated
and there is 20s. to show for every £ of
capital, the directors will have to earn only
£7OO a year net to pay 10 p.c.; and if they
can’t do that out of a well-placed city pub
and a restaurant with a name known to
everybody, the management will have to be
turned down as hopeless. Of the £667
shown as written off for the half-year £2BO
comes off furniture, plant and fittings; and
as this is 50 p.c. more than the replacements
cost, the figure ought to be a fair thing. The
balance of the amount written off is mostly
employed in reduction of the item “goodwill
and leases.” The two things shouldn't be
lumped in Ibis way. The sum necessary to
amortize leases ought to be charged to profit
and loss: it is rent paid in another form.
For this reason the half-year’s profit and
(he amount written off are both over-stated.
Assuming that the stock has.been taken
fairly, the true profit for the half-year was
probably about £2750; and, on the capital,
that is excellent. It may be a freak result;
still, even so, things have plainly been im-
proving for some time. How long they will
continue to improve depends on management.
* * * *
The Federal Deposit Bank (Brisbane),
which began with a deficit of £l7l, repre-
senting preliminary expenses :
To Re-
Ocf;., Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
1908 • . £l7l
Reserves.
J 909.. £739 Nil £739 568
1910 .. 1251 4 p.c. = £B9l 360 928
1911 .. 1727 5 „ „ 1115 612 1,540
1912 .. 3030 6 ~ „ 1438 1592 3,132
1913 .. 3320 7 ~ „ 1951 1375 4,507
Internal reserves disclosed.. 5000 9,507
1914 .. 4289 7 p.c.= 1951 2338 11,845
Capital, £29,118; reserves, £11,845; deposits,
£96,034; and advances £98,381. They are
the items that first catch the eye. If this co.
were in any part of Australia except Queens-
land it would probably feel an uncomfort-
able bump presently. But Queensland is
fortunate enough to have missed the big
drought, and it has an Australian market,
unaffected by the war, for its great sugar
crop. For its fat stock there is still a good
local and over-sea demand ; and, unlike the
Southern States, it never put any depend-
ence on a wheat crop, so that it is not
prejudiced by this year’s failure of that staple.
On the other hand, the war has cut off the
supply of loan money at the meter, and
Queensland’s borrowing boom must come to
the same, dead-end as, say, Holman’s or
Scaddan’s. The result is that property
values, inflated by the bogus prosperity
brought about by the prodigal expenditure
of borrowed money, must now come down
again. To what extent the Federal will
suffer depends on (1) whether depositors
are able and willing to leave their money in
the business, (2) whether borrowers can keep
up their repayments, (3) the basis the ad-
vances were made on —whether. that_ is, a
good margin was left for a shrinkage in the
value of the securities. These things
all remain to be seen. All that can
be said is that, for the reasons previously
enumerated, there shouldn’t be any pressure
for deposits in Queensland ; while things
ought to be quite good enough to permit
most borrowers to keep up their payments.
When the co. was resurrected (it used to
be the very unfortunate Federal Building
Land and Investment Co.) capital came
down from £148,398 to £33,441, of which
£3574 is uncalled. Besides that there are
£12,500 of deferred debentures which get
half the surplus profits after the shares have
had 6 p.c. Assets in addition to the
advances include £39,279 of cash and
sundries (chiefly cash) and £17,311 of
city property, etc. The holding of
cash is particularly satisfactory. It
means that there are (apart from the de-
bentures) only £60,000 of liabilities unre-
presented by liquid assets; and against this
£60.000 there are advances and other pro-
perty valued at £llB.OOO. Occasional losses
will take some of the gilt off the share-
holders’ gingerbread ; but as for depositors,
on present appearances, they need have no
qualm whatever. The £5OOO just brought into
the visible reserves is, by the way, an old
fund set anart. on the reconstruction, to meet
various contingencies. As there has been
ho need for this money for those special
purposes, it has been transferred to a gen-
eral reserve account.
* * * *
The once-collapsed Latrobe (Tas.) Shale
and Oil Co. has had another start on a
small capital, and is turning out fuel oil,
motor spirit and other products.
The war pokes its nose into all sorts of
unexpected places. The best imported.pebbles
for tube mills used to come from Iceland
and Denmark ; and, as that trade has fallen
dead, stocks are very short in Australia.
However, S. Aus. supplies a fan- quantity
of the flints, and the outlook for that little
industry is all the brighter in consequence
of William’s misbehavior.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS,
2\’o notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken o / communications insufficiently stamped-
Xame and address must appeal on MSS. A»
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Adela Pankhurst: Glad to oblige you and
put all the blame for the recent silly “Peace” meet-
ing at Port Melbourne on your shoulders, thus reliev-
ing sister Christabel. By the way, The B. notes,
from the dipping you send, that Christabel, in hei
first speech in London after her recent return, said
that Britain couldn’t stand aside and see brutality
win. After that, what will Christabel say to the
suffragette who hacks pictures, burns premises,
and stabs policemen with hatpins? Can Britain
stand aside and see her win? Mid-Channel:
You say, in reference , to, Arthur H. Adams s
action in publishing his “Three Plays for
the Australian Stage”: “The custom adopted
by all the finished dramatists is to wait
until their efforts have emerged finally from the
crucible, and only to allow the acted editions of any
plays to go into print—acted meaning professionally
acted. Isn’t it a wonder Mr. Adams doesn’t know
this?” The likeliest reason why Adams doesn't
know it is that it isn’t so. Most of Shaw’s plays
had appeared in book form before they were acted
professionally. The same applies to many of the
works of the Irish dramatists; also to the plays of
Tennyson, Browning, Brieux and others. .. .W.C.P.:
Briefly, the U.S. will not permit outside interference
with any State on the continent of America, which
includes both N. and S. America. The doctrine is
not embodied in the U.S. Constitution.... Inquirer:
Canon Garland’s deductions concerning the morals
of N.S.W. are of no value. Few parsons’ deductions
on that question are. .. .H.H.C.C.: Yes; but you
might as well yell into ears of wheat....A. E. Ral-
ston : The spook-book you want is “All Men arc
Ghosts,” by L. P. Jacks (Williams and Norgate)....
Adelaide: (1) Don’t know. (2) Don’t regard them
as an investment at a 11.... C.W.W.: Thanks; what's
the date of it ?. ... Elpheck: Population of German
Empire at the 1910 census was 64,925,993... .Fred
Wood: (1) No one Government “ordered the Aus-
tralian Navy.” The Laborites adopted the idea
first and ordered the first ships. (2) Fisher had
nothing to do with the resolutions passed at the
Defence. Conference six years ag0.... Dora B.: No;
the humor is old-maidish... .E.A.C.: The patriotic
’bus has already started. It is crammed full of early
poets, has a second crop on the roof, and the last
frenzied lot crowd together on the back Step....
Gus A.: You amble into the battle too late....
Albion: Same old storytelling bushman, same old
plug of tobacco, same old everything. ... Spider:
Humor .feeble and conventional. .. . Arthur S. (V.):
Sorry boot poem is too rough. We hate to decline it,
because boot poems are so rare... .C.N.L.: It looks like
a particularly stupid lie, and stupid lies don't make
good foundations for patriotic poems... . W.A.A.:
Easy verse —d—d easy....A.C. (Q.): A heavy-footed
contribution, but it managed to hop into the basket.
....Thomas F. II.: You should have mobilised your-
self earlier. Still, the verses are so bad that prompt-
ness wouldn’t have saved the situation... .11.M.V.:
There is practically no market for poor, shambling
verse in blue ink on semi-transparent paper....
L.L. (Paddington) : Poem had one virtue —it was
brief... .W.H.G.: No use flinging a defiance at the
Kaiser from a Sydney suburb.... Ivoyecal: Good
theme, but the verses are hopeless.... C.II. P.: As
you specifically ask us not to alter or correct your
contribution, we won’t. We will just reject it.
(P.S. —Thanks for suggestion to make a page feature
of it. Grateful for your offer to do the illustrating.
Sorry we can’t ask you round i superintend the
printing.)....Sidney C. (Sydney): j'e-ret u'.mi able.
....Samuel L.: It isn’t Bulletin stuff !>. Melt.:
The 550 words go out. .. . J.M.S.: Not quite good
enough. You write with sincerity, but your work
lacks polish. .. .E.M. (Q.) : If it really is a
there is too much argument in it, and not enough
melody... .Wanderlust: Write to Home Affairs Dept.,
Melbourne.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.D.8.: Dreadful. . . .A.J.A.: Who told you that
you were a cartoonist?. .. .P.II. (Melb.): Respect-
ably dull. . . .Y.G.: They all fail. . . .Frank F. F.: The
X-ray humor won't go. .. .Jack L.: Death and Ihe
Devil look like two honest suburbanites arrayed
for a fancy-dress ba11.... W.H.C.: That jest was
originally told of one of the early N.S.W. Judges.
It may now be considered dead... . W.G.K.: Neither
worth while.
“D” scents danger : —•
Australia remains outwardly calm in the presence
of a great peril. Picture the position if Italy takes
the field on the side of the Triple Alliance. The
anti-alien feeling is growing. In the United King-
dom Germans and Austrians are being interned, and
Australia will probably follow suit in due course.
Simultaneously almost every fruit and soft-drinks
emporium will close down. Summer is upon us and
the plight of the citizen who had learned to rely on
the co- big banana washed down by a goblet of soda-*
fountain liquid will become desperate, lie (and she)
will be driven to the pubs. The drink statistics will
go up with a rush. Reformers will arrive in herds
from the U.S., and bemoan the situation through
their noses, and, failing to find teetotal drinking-
places, will themselves rush the hotels and become
moral and physical ruins. Meanwhile, the Italians will
live in concentration camps with the Germans. They
will have liothi ng to do but brood on all the priceless
hot weather that is going to waste. On the principle
that profits unearned represent money lost, they will
suffer anguish. Many will go mad. The authorities,
faced with the job of keeping order in a camp
which is partly lager-less Germans and partly de-
mented Italians, will go mad themselves. Hereabouts
Greece will call up all its reserves on our side, and
the fish-shops and the rest of the fruit shops will
close with a hang. Chidley will he taken away to
fight in the Albanian army, being mistaken for an
Arnaut or a Suliote or a ls'lepht by reason of his
skirt. All will be desolation. It is a distressing
prospect whichever way one considers it.
“Jobber” on Sydney disease depots:—
As the long-beer season has arrived the time is
ripe for a health inspector to have a look round the
hotel bars. One night last week I watched a barman
gathering glasses from the counter.' Incredible though
it may appear, one or two bloques had left some beer,
etc. in the glass.. In it went! One or two swishes
round and the glass was ready to poison the next
customer. The towel looked as though it had been
used to clean fish. If any inspector is sufficiently
interested, I’ll give him the name of that pub. I’ve
seen only one or two places where glasses are put
under running water, and I don't know any at all
where they are given the cleansing which the law.
ought to prescribe.


ill
A
m
\
ii!
l-isisi
r
&
&
•iilSlilH:
* :s g;
W*
*
a
&
m
K
&
0“
.A
r
44
m
iVfe
&
£
m
sk.
0/r~?
a:
a???
When you can’t work, feel all run down, under the
weather, blue, irritable, sick all over, it is a sign that your entire
system is clogged up with the dangerous poisons of dyspepsia,
biliousness and constipation.
To obtain quick relief give yourself a thorough cleansing
out with Chamberlain s Tablets for the stomach and liver. Their
action is quick, yet mild and gentle. They strengthen the bowels
and tone up the whole digestive system.
Chamberlain’s Tablets will make you feel like a new man —
bright, cheerful and fit for work. There is no safer or better medicine
known for all stomach and liver troubles and constipation than
Chamberlains Tablets
Jfa- The Stomach Liver.
11
|:!$l?!
Wmm
<7.
C<mrMo*K
TO D/IYI
i
$
m
4
'A
/
/r/io
Kephaldol is sold ly all Chemists and
Storekeepers in TTJBES, 1/6 and S/6.
If any difficulty in procuring locally, a tube will
be sent post free direct by the Manufacturers on
receipt of postal note to value of tube desired.
KEPHALDOL CO.,
SO Ash Street, Sydney.
ď
READ
AND
HEED
f
Those who suffer from the torturing pains of RHEUMATISM, NEURALGIA, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO, HEADACHE, INFLUENZA or any of the hundred other painful complaints which
attack mankind, will welcome the introduction of DR. STOUR'S KEPHALDOL, the great pain-
killer. Unlike many other preparations, KEPHALDOL can be used with absolute safety, without
the slightest fear of its affecting the heart’s action or setting up drug habits. KEPHALDOL is
not an experiment: it is the accepted safe , speedy and sure remedy for any of .the complaints indi-
cated above. You have proof of this in the fact that KEPHALDOL has earned the endorsement of
thousands of the cleverest doctors at home and abroad. So speedy is KEPHALDOL in action that
in very many cases it produces the desired relief within a few minutes. KEPHALDOL is manufac-
tured in Australia.
KEPHALDOL DOES NOT DISAPPOINT!
Britannia Street, Burwood,
March 8, 1914.
Messrs. Kephaldol Co., Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —
I received the tube of Kephaldol. and I have gained great
relief from its use. As I have suffered from violent headaches
for years, I have tried all kinds of remedies, but without
success.
I have only used half the tube of Kephaldol tablets, and have
obtained more relief from them than all other remedies combined
that I have used, and I can highly recommend Kephaldol to
anyone suffering from headache or neuralgia pains.
If these few lines may be of any benefit to you in inducing
others who may suffer as I did to accept your remedy, you are
at liberty to publish them.
Thanking you for your splendid remedy,
I remain. Yours faithfulllv,
MISS OLIVE KERR.
Ivum Kurri, 10/ 3/’ 14.
Messrs. Kephaldol and Co., Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —
Will you please send me at. your earliest convenience one
bottle of Kephaldol—l/6 size. I have tried your Kephaldol
with good results.
I have been in the State almost two years, and suffered
dreadfully at times with headaches, etc., with three days in
bed, and I am pleased to say that I have escaped it for the
first, time after tailing Kephaldol. I am very grateful to you,
and shall never be without it. I have recommended it to
several of my friends.
Yours truly,
MRS. J. K. WARDAUGH.
SEE WHAT BRITISH DOCTORS SAY.
“I have found Kephaldol gives excellent results
in cases of obstinate Headache, hitherto unaf-
fected by any drug.”
—Dr. C. E. O’Connor, Birmingham.
“I have been trying Kephaldol on a patient
suffering from Neuritis, with very satisfactory
results, and wish to continue the treatment.”
—Dr. ,T. D. Williams, Cardiff.
“We are finding your Kephaldol satisfactory
in Rheumatic Headache and Neuralgia.”
—Dr. W. H. Savory, Ashford.
“I have found Kephaldol extremely useful in
the treatment of the severe headaches of the
climacteria.”
—Dr. N. N. Ramshottom. Norwich, Lancs.
(80031.)


Xmas
Gifts!
Let us send you our free
Gift Book. It is full of
charming designs.
15ct. Gold, Two-bar Brooch,
set pure double-cut Diamonds, £2.
25/-
20/-
/
. *VSSa
ktni
Lady’s Solid Silver,
Ope n-f ace Keyless
Watch, 20/- Extra quality,
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, 50/-
Solid Gold, 40/-, 50/-,
60/-, 75/-
SENT POST FREE.
18ct. Gold
Gipsy Ring,
set Diamonds,
£5/10/-
18et. Gold,
set pure
double-cut
Diamonds,
£3/10/-
15ct. Gold and Platinoid
Brooch, set Diamonds and Tour-
maline, or Aquamarine, £5/10/-
Lady’s Solid Silver
Hunting Keyless
Watch, 3-plate, full jewelled,
patent, adjusted balance,
20/» Extra jewelled, 30/-,
40/- Solid Gold, £3/10/-,
£4.
20/-
25 1-
\ * /
%
QBOMBUinUI
Gent.’s Nickel, Open-face,
Keyless Watch, non-magnetic
time spring, jewelled, dust- and water-
proof cases, accurate, reliable, 20/-
Higher Grade, 25/-, 30/-
18ct. Gold, set
pure, double-cut
Diamonds, £l2/10
Itct. Goiu
Links,
17/6.
lact. Gold
Links,
85/-
Tnitials Free.
9ct. Gold Brooch
Pendant, set Pearls
and Colored Stones,
£2.
9ct. Gold Neck-
lace, set Tourmalines,
Peridots or Aquamar-
ines, 30/-
9ct. Gold Circle
Locket, richly en-
graved, 25/-
18ct. Gold
Diamond
Cluster
Kina 1 . £lO.
9ct. Gold Links,
richly engraved, any
initials, 25/-
16ct., 40/-
Xmas
Gifts!
Thousands of Beautiful
Ideas to select from .
9ct. Gold, 2-Bar Brooch, set
Red Stone, 10/-
30-
25
m
v
mwmim
>}!!<!!!!>)
wi mm
w m
¥ J®
Gent.’s Nickel Silver Hunting
Keyless Lever Watch, high-
grade movement, non-magnetic, extra-
strong works, 25/-, 30/-
Silver, 30/-, 35/-
Solid Gold, £7/10/-, £lO.
Lady’s Wristlet Watch, Oxidised Case,
Morocco and other Leather Straps, 15/-, 20/-.
Solid Gold Timekeeper, 40/-, 50/-
Accurate.
25/-
set Pearl or
Garnet,
9ct. Gold, Half-round, Plain Bracelet,
Safety Chain, 30/- 15ct. Gold, £2/15/-
9ct. Gold
Engraved
Collar
Stud,
5/6.
Silver, 1/-
Lady’s Solid Gold
Wristlet Watch, £4.
Patent Expanding
15ct. Gold, £7/10/-
807-817 GEORGE
STREET, SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS
Opp. Railway Station,
SYDNEY.
SIEMENS STANDARD
STOCK MACHINES.
When older motors or generators from our Australian Stocks
you make sure of
Reliability, Economy and
Low Maintenance Charges.
You can. also rely upon obtaining, later, similar machines for
extensions, etc.
Large stocks of D.C. and A.C. Machines available.
Let us quote to your requirements.
Siemens Bros. Dynamo Works Ltd.,
Head Office: London.
Machine (Si Switchgear Worßs Stafford, England.
Cable (SL, Telegraph WorKs—Woolwich, London.
Incandescent Lamp WorKs —Dalston, London.
Australian Branches:
59 William Street, MELBOURNE.
42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Edison Bine Amberol
Records for November.
d
There is a wide range of subjects included in the November
Records, and quite a number of old favorite artists are included.
A very seasonable item is “The Battle Eve,” and one that could not
fail to please you. For lovers of Pantomime “hits” there are “He’d
Have to Get Under —Get Out and Get Under” (Billy Murray) and
“Hey! Ho! Can’t You Hear the Steamer?” (Daisy Taylor). There's a tine
variety,in instrumental selections, including an Accordion Solo, a Cornet Solo, a
Xylophone Solo, also a nicely arranged Quartet for Violin, ’Cello, Flute and Harp
—entitled “Ever of Thee.”
We would point out that, though not given here, there are a number of beautiful
Patriotic, National and Imperial Airs and Selections obtainable, in Edison Stan-
dard, Amberol and Blue Amberol Records.
Ask your Edison dealer to play over your favorites mentioned below, and also any
of the patriotic records you fancy.
Blue Amberol Concert Records.
28190-
-Dearest Name (Caro Nome)
Soprano in English.
—Rigoletto
Anna Case.
28191 —The Secret —Tenor, orch. ace.
Orville Harrold.
Blue Amberol Regular Records.
2105 — Bird on Nellie’s Hat—Comic song, orch.
SiCc. Ada Jones.
2106 — Lost Chord —Tenor, orch. ace.
Reed Miller.
2107 — Amoureuse Waltz —Accordion, unacc.
P. .J. Frosini.
2108 — Uncle Josh in a Photograph Gallery—
Talking. Cal. Stewart.
2111 —Premier Polka —Cornet, Band acc.
Arthur S. Whitcomb.
2129 —On the Old Front Porch —Conversational
duet, orch. acc.
Ada Jones and Billy Murray.
2163—Ever of Thee —Violin, Violoncello, Flute
and Harp. Venetian Instrumental Quartet.
2186 — Old Clarinet—Oh, I Say—■
Empire Vaudeville Co.
2187 — Dream Days—Tenor, orch. acc.
Manuel Romain.
2188 — You Need a Rag—Male Voices, orch. acc.
Premier Quartet.
2189 — Jesus, I Come —Sacred, orch. ace.
John Young and Frederick J. Wheeler.
2190 — That’s How I Lost Him —Comic Song,
orch. acc. Ada Jones.
2191 — Fein und Chic (Fine and Smart) —
Gavotte.
United States Marine Band.
2192 Aunt Mandy—Vaudeville Speciality.
Golden and Hughes.
2193 Battle Eve —Baritone and Tenor, orch.
acc, Vernon Archibald & Royal Fish.
2194 He'd Have to Get Under—Get Out and
Get Under —The Pleasure Seekers —
Comic Song, orch. acc. Billy Murray.
2195 — Bonnie Scotland Medley—Variations—
Xylophone, orch acc. Charles Daab.
2197—Pussy Cat Rag—Comic Song, orch. acc.
Peerless Quartet.
2199—G. A. R. Patrol-
New York Military Band.
23212—When Love Creeps in Your Heart; —
Tenor, orch. acc. Hughes Macklin.
23213 —Hey! Ho! Can’t You Hear the Steamer?
Comic Song, orch. acc. Daisy Taylor.
23216 —Her Bright Smile Haunts Me Still —
Tenor and Baritone, orch. acc.
Hughes Macklin and David Brazell.
23219 —Giving a Donkey a Strawberry—Comic
Song 1 , orch. acc. Billy Williams.
23222 —Bantrv Bay—Baritone, orch. acc.
T. F. Ivinniburgh.
23223 —Take Me in a Taxi, Joe—Comic Song,
orch. acc. Jack Charman.
23224 —Time Will Always Bring Forgiveness—
Tenor, orch. acc. Charles Compton.
THOMAS A. EDISON, Ltd. (Wholesale Only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.


“the spirit
country”
F HE
OLD
S V.
Vv
■V*
- >5
I
V.tl
<5
%
X.
S?M
i 7
r^,
%
1
L
m
y
■x
m
<r
4
asai
i
i<
W~-.
&
7^<
r
a*
K^
r
«
B
«N
#!
Hul
1
!1_
m
•Mk
J?
2^
1
K
A
*&
igss
Siat^fe
V
•>»
%
Green


Banking:. Public Companies. &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET. SYDNEY.
Commissioners —•
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O'M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
Security and Satisfactory
Interest
are the leading features of this Institution.
Deposits received from 1/- upwards.
Interest paid at 3\% on first £2OO, and 3%
on excess to £5OO.
The Bank lias 130 Branches and over 500
Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices.
DEPOSITS Ginraited by the Government.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. IT. DAVIDS, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £385,000.
Directors : Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
lion. ROBERT PIIILP, M.L.A. ;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manaoer: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Oftice: 253 George Street,
i Melbourne (Mice: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Brandies throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED '.. £1,198,679
PAID-UP (30th June, 1914) .. £1,195,591
RESERVE FUND .. .. £45,000
HEAD OFFICE: George & King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE: 2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq.; LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon,
Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq. ; Frank N.
Yarivood, Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysaout, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, -general Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. . .£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . . . . . 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 166,000 '; 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors— Gep. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairmab) ;
Jas. Munro,'Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray,
M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Commercial Bankincr Co.
o
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,730,000 0 0
Reserve Capital . . . . 2,000,000 0 0
£5,730,000 0 0 .
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq. . . .. Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., and W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dirbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief inspector:
IT. IT. Massie,
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Eire hi n Lane.
Directors: F. IT. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton: N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Sta.te of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world
Bank of [jaui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING.
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £1,000,000
Preference Shares . . . . . . 500 000
Ordinary Sharos ( £1,000,000) Paid-
IT U P„ ;• 500.000
Uncalled Capital . . . , . . 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,601,608
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
, . , T . . . ' :UK, > Fiji, Great
tain and Ireland, and other places.
Zea-
Bri-
transacts all other usual Banking
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
business.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
The Colonial [flutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000 000
» Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
. Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary;
Shipping:.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
ORMONDE ..GearedTurbine
ORAMA . .Triple-Screw. .
OR \ J ETO . .Twin-Screw
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
otway ;;
ORSOYA .. „
ORONTES . . „ „
OMRAII ..
fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and Inxuri-
ons Steamers. Cahines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Rifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin - Place, Sydney.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
J HROUGH EOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
Leave Sydney
Noon.
Steamers.
MOANA ..
MARAMA
Dee. 5
1915.
Jan. 2
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
To meet the convenience of passengers, particulars
as to ports of call can be obtained at llie Agents’
Offices.
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting)
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON'
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
*CAIRNS
(*Transhippin" for
this and other
, Queensland ports) J
NORTH.
PEREGRINE (3500 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Nov. 14.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Nov. 18.
Leaves Sydney Nov. 21.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Nov. 25.
Leaves Sydney Nov. 28.
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W,A. ports)
south.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Nov. 14.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Nov. 21.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
UNDER NEUTRAL FLAG
TO
AMERICA and ENGLAND.
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers, IT knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
The San Francisco Panama Exposition is open
February-December, 1915. Tickets issued to London
via San Francisco and back by any Suez Line.
Tel. 2282 Oity. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing' over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
* HOLIDAY CRUISES
-• e ■
mi
To PAPUA and PACIFIC ISLES.
To Papua.
To Sojomon Islands.
To the New Hebrides.
SEND FOR PARTICULARS OF FARES AND SAILINGS TO
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability -
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
Oh
WALES.
£3,500,000
£2,450,000
£3,500,000
£9,450,000
DIRECTORS:
The lion. Sir diaries K. MacKellar, Kt. ( M.L.C.,
President.
Thomas Iluckland, Esq.
liichard Jlinnie, Esq.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.l).
The lion. .Limes T. Walker
The lion. Edmund W. Fosberv, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The lion. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Alfred George Milson, Esq. ; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Hea.d Office—George St., Byciney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St. f E.C.
340 Branches and Agencies in tlie Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT
IITE MORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Health) ami Dcligrhtful Climate, Enchanting; Scenery, Eiheral Earn! Laws.
\.l 101 ’i. 111 /! 103 , 8 P°t e nti a 1 Hies, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
D ' of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
piospeetive settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TKOEDSON, Director.
Hrafich Office: 11G Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. HESTON, Local Director.
i])]KWUIOUIUIO|j
ďf
of
ta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
Open
■for all
General Banking 1 Business
in the
principal
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
Gable remlttaiiecs made to a"d drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and collected
Exchange t 0 a, ‘? 11ar . to: . the worid - , liills negotiated or forwarded for collection Bank in* and
i “ ' e Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth, United King loin and abroad
Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits. Advances made against approvedsmiHties
Saving's Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at
Deposits
from
1/- to £3OO 2000
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Snterest at
per annum
3%
INTERSTATE
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor.
and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
. DENIS >N MILDER, Governor.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £545,634 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 155,476 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 79,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. °
Gen. Man.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents' throughout the World.
THE BEST SAVINGS BANK OF AI.L.-10 Per Cent.
1 Interest Guaranteed for 3 Years.
WELCOME HOME ESTATE, WOY WOY.
Choice Blocks, from £l5 each, ss. per lot deposit
and ss. per lot pet month. If the buyer is not
satisfied with his bargain three years after pur-
chase we undertake to refund all sums paid on
account of purchase money, with 10 per cent,
interest added. Every buyer will receive a legal
guarantee to this effect.
C«n nnvnne ask better proof of value?
STAPLES & CO., Estate Agents, Wov Wov, N.S.W.
T H _ E . North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah!
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. Gd. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO,
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WARILDA (8000
tons), fitted Wireless;
Telegraphy, Saturday,,
, Nov. 21 and Dec. 19).
(Carrying First and)
Second Saloon and;
Steerage Passengers-.))
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cain
WOLLOVVRA, Nov. M
ALLINGA, Nov. 21.
INNAMINOKA, Nov. 2S.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUIIX & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE.
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND.
OPERATING THE LARGEST AND FINEST VESSELS
ACROSS THE PACIFIC FROM AUSTRALIA.
SAILINGS:
*Triple-Screw Steamer, fitted with Cabins de luxe en
suite, Bedstead Rooms, Nursery, Laundry, Electric
Lift, t Twin-Screw Steamer.
To meet the. convenience of passengers, particulars
as to ports of call can he obtained at the Agents’'
Offices.
Steamers fitted with AVireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD:.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Share Lines
Steam to London and Liverpool..
T.S.S. ESSEX.
11,000 TONS. CAPTAIN BROWN.
BRISBANE . . about NOVEMBER 28, 1914..
SYDNEY . . „ DECEMBER 10, 1914..
Entered in Imperial Government War Risk Scheme',,
under which AVar Risk Insurance effected if required.
FARES TO LONDON:—
Saloon: £4B. Third-Class: £l6/7/6 to £2l/8/6.
Saloon Fares from Brisbane', £2/8/- extra.
Third-Class Fares, £l/5/- extra.
Saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on upper deck, situated amidships. AVell-
lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provi-
sions from cool chamber throughout the voyage.
Electric light throughout> , Prepaid passages arranged.
Fitted with Wireless.
For illustrated pamphlets and full information apply
BIRT & CO. LTD.,' Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. P’T’Y, LTD.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER. SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO. LTD., Hobart.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“lllimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with AVireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONAVEALTH & ALL NEAV ZEALAND POUTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND AVEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ...10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with AVireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should l travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company’s steamCrs possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience/ and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasaht. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Dailv Papers. ■-" - ■ ■
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.


The Easy Way to Solve that
Gift Problem is the KodaK Way.
Give a KodaK to the one
you wish to please the most.
There’s no better time to begin picture-making than at Christmas, with its happy reunions. A Kodak is so light, compact, handy and so wonderfully
simple to operate that anyone who gets a Kodak can start right away and make good pictures of all the pleasures of Christmas Day and. of all the
days that follow.
Whether it he for schoolboy or schoolgirl, or the most sedate of grown-ups, there’s always a fascination in picture-taking the Kodak way.
A Kodak is sure to be appreciated, not only at the moment, but throughout the whole year, and for many years to come.
Give a man a Kodak and he will be able to make a capital picture record of all his sports and of every hour that he spends in the open air.
Give a woman a Kodak and she will be able to make delightful pictures of all her home life, of her family and her friends, pictures that will be a
constant source of pleasure.
Give the children Brownies or. Kodaks, and they will be able to make jolly snaps of all their happy moments. Kodaks and Brownies are so simple that
even a child/can learn to use one in half an hour.
The Yest Pocket Kodak is a very small, compact camera, fitted with Achro-
matic Meniscus Lens, arid weighing only 9 ounces, taking pictures 2|in. x lfin.,
which are easily enlarged. Price, 30/-. Eight exposure spools cost 1/-.
The 3a Folding Pocket Kodak takes pictures s£in. x (popular post-card
size), double combination rectilinear lens. Kodak automatic shutter, Price,
£5/2/6.
There are Brownies from 5/- up to 50/-.
Get the latest Kodak Catalogue.
d
ď
f
d
ďf
Subscribe to the “Australasian Pho<o-Review. ’’ Monthly competitions for
junior anti senior amateur photographers; good prizes awarded. Advice and
encouragement given in “Answers to Correspondents” column. Selected
articles from other parts of the world. Post free, 4/6 per annum.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “The Block,” 284 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 37 Bundle Street.
BRISBANE: 250-252 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA: Rutliven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON: Denham Street.
BROKEN HIDE: 346 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dixon Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: 3 Lome Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: 76 Stuart Street.
Stewart Dawson’s for
Presentation Services.
For. Presentation purposes, the Silver Tea and Coffee Service
or Afternoon Tea Service holds pride of place. We have built
up a splendid reputation for exclusiveness of design, excellence
of workmanship and service by our policy of “giving, the most
value for the least money.” Our prices are Wholesale, and you
are sure of saving cash here.
THE TREASURE HOUSE SERVICE.
A Very Handsome Presentation Tea Service, consisting of
Teapot, Sugar and Cream in the best-quality English Electro
Plate. The design is new and novel—the finish perfect. Our
price, posted free anywhere.. 707-
Oak Tray, to match the Service, with Nickel Rail, 25/-
(We engrave any necessary wording at' a small extra charge.)
WRITE FOR OUR MAIL-ORDER CATALOGUE.
Stewart Dawson’s,
Strand Corner,
412 George Street, SYDNEY.
“ Britain’s Best.”
THE GLORIOUS
“BROADWOOD” PIANO
Without a rival as to CONSTRUCTION,
TONE and DURABILITY.
No need to wander amongst foreign nations
for Pianos —the “BROADWOOD” has no
equal and is British Built throughout.
CASH or EASY TERMS.
The British Pianoforte Depot Ltd.
Temporary Showrooms- —3B Market Street, SYDNEY
(Opposite Henry Bull’s).


KEXrC Ul PLANTERS -
7 1 ’»*§• | _
MEXICAN
PLANTERS
For the mild Smoker —a cigar as mellow
as moonlight—sweet as a sun-kissed
cornfield —with a flavor that lingers.
Price 6d. each.
Box of 25—10/6 Post Free
Write for our Booklet,
“Smoke Drift**—it's Free.
F I N N E Y’S,
THE BIG BLOCK, BRISBANE.
Mr. W. E. Thomas, the well-known dentist, whose
headquarters are in Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, with
branches all over Australia, is, we notice, making a
most remarkable offer. He announces that he is pre-
pared to make a gift of no less than £2OOO to any
recognised charitable institution if it can be proved
that his three-guinea Sets of Teeth, with spurred
stense palates, supervised personally by him, are not
the most natural-looking and best-fitting teeth in the
world. This is, we confess, a magnificent proof of
Mr. Thomas’s confidence in the quality of his work.
As a guarantee of good faith., he ,states that he has
placed the sum of £2OOO in the Melbourne branch
of the Commonwealth Bank, where anyone is invited
to inquire and verify.*
Illegal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF WEST-
ERN AUSTRALIA. No. 73 of 1914.
DIVORCE & MATRIMONIAL CAUSES.
Between ARTHUR GILBERT BEARDON
Petitioner
and KATHLEEN ANN BEARDON,
Respondent.
TO KATHLEEN ANN BEARDON.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing
date the twenty-first day of October 1914 has
been issued out of the Supreme Court of
Western Australia, citing you to appear and
answer the Petition of ARTHUR GILBERT
BEARDON of Albany in the State of West-
ern Australia, praying for a dissolution of
his marriage with you on the ground of wil-
tul desertion. In default of your appearing
the Court will proceed to hear and determine
the said charge, and you will not be allowed
to address the Court.
THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that for
the purpose aforesaid you are, within 45
days from the date of this advertisement, to
attend in person or by your Solicitor at the
Central Office of the said Supreme Court
at Perth in the State of Western Australia,
and there enter an Appearance in a book pro-
vided for that purpose.
Dated this 31st day of October 1914.
l.s. (Sgd.) F. A. MOSELEY,
Registrar.
HENNING & BROCKMAN, Australasia
Chambers, St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
Western Australia, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner.
IN BANANA LAND
Bananaland probably leads the world in
distances travelled by itinerant teachers. In
1901 there was only one wandering in-
structor ; last year 17 pedagogues travelled
a total of 60,438 miles. Each hawker of
knowledge has a boy as companion, who
harnesses up and boils the billy on the road.
The teachers consider themselves fortunate
if they see the same scholars more than
twice in the year. Curiously enough, most
of them are ex-city teachers. They take
to the job, and seldom want to return to
the monotonous existence of a suburban
school.
JUSTIFIABLE HOMICIDE.
PEACE PARTY : "Dear me, this is very dreadful. Why have you been fighting this poor
little bo y?”
JUSTLY-OUTRAGRD SMALL BOY : “He called me the Kaiser!”
Win. Fraser, who passed out at Mitchell
a few days ago, was concerned, in one of
Queensland’s grimmest tragedies. When the
Fraser family was wiped out in 1851 at
Hornet Bank William was left for dead by
the aboriginals. Recovering from a nullah
blow, he seized a horse and rode for help.
It was William’s brother Sylvester who
avenged the Hornet Bank., massacre on a
scale of quite Teutonic magnitude. What
the nullah failed to accomplish in William’s
21st year the cursed/ Northern climate
effected in liis 84th.
“X.P.D.”: The other day a Brisbane
time-payment shark, hearing that the
husband of one of his victims—l mean
customers —a naval reserve man, was obtain-
ing the address of the shrapnel line, rushed
round and demanded £4 outstanding
on tire sticks. The sailorman couldn’t
produce * the amount; all he could do
was to take his trouble and his rifle
to his country’s aid and leave the wife to
do the best she could. The morning after,
the ravenous shark sent a carter for the
goods. There’s no need to go to Germany
to look for atrocious conduct.
Passed out a few days ago T. A. Johnson,
M.L.C., of Warwick, who owed his place in
Parliament to Arthur Morgan. The de-
ceased was a typical, stolid bucolic piosy,
uninteresting, but eminently reliable m the
Tory sense. A queer compound—full ot the
love of human-kind, and equally full ot
hatred for Parliamentary efforts to make
human-kind as happy as he wanted it to be.
The Legislative Assembly proposed to
‘deal with” pony racing the other day,
thereupon a certain John Wren arrived in
Brisbane. Wren has no repute as A
speaker, but he is such an eminently per-
suasive talker that pony racing hasn t had
a thing done to it.
The Brisbane City Council, being in a
wakeful mood the other day, found tune
between recriminations to jump on. the habit
of disfiguring the city with advertising hoard-
ings. It decided that no new licenses or
renewals of existing licenses are to be
granted ; and now the evenings are enlivened
by the sight of civic fathers being chased to
their homes by enraged bill-posters and
maddened advertising agents.
“Albion”: Still another method of
destroying the prickly pear has arrived. At
Wellcamp, on the Darling Downs, a demon-
stration was given of the Corby machine,
which forces a fire upon the pear by means
of a fan. Many who have seen it express
themselves as satisfied that this is one of the
best methods adopted so far. It destroys the
prickles and makes the pear fit for cattle to
eat, and it is claimed that the stumps will
decay in a couple of weeks, although the
bulb may want further, treatment. For my-
self, I reckon that Chapman’s method of
strangling the vegetable is the best. His
farm at Mitchell tells its own story. This
is what he did: He pulled the timber up
with a traction engine and burned it. Then
he hooked a seven-disc plough on to the
engine. The engine crushed the pear into a
pulp and the plough turned it into the
ground. The land was then ready for crops,
and wheat thrived remarkably well. I am
so cocksure about this method of dealing
with the pest that I would take up a prickly-
pear selection to-morrow if someone would
send me a traction engine. I will pay the
postage.
“Don Q.”: In his annual report to Par-
liament, the Auditor-General found space
and time to criticise the liberality of the
Queensland Railway Department in the
matter of the payments made to the widows
and dependents of the six men killed at
Murphy’s Creek by the gross negligence of
certain big guns in the service. But the
Auditor-General couldn’t find time and
space to castigate the Denham Government
for its shocking action in refunding to the
two officials, whom the inquiry condemned as
responsible for the accident, the £l5O fines
inflicted upon them. Both these men were
within six months reinstated in their
original rank, and the Government is under-
stood _ to have been responsible for recom-
mending to the Commissioner that the fines
should be remitted.
The Red Umbrella.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Past the window-box and curtain.
Curtain blowing in the south wind,
Come the voices of the women
With their endless petty chatter
Where they hold exhaustive meeting—
Some important weekly meeting—
And they’re talking—talking—talking—
O’er the tea the stout charwoman
Brings them to their caucus-stronghold.
Sometimes it’s the new-got housemaid,
Who is subject for their gossip,
Sometimes someone’s yearly baby
Or the vicar’s evening party.
Mrs. Parson danced the tango,
And they think she shouldn’t do it.
One explains she’s near to forty,
And we lose our spring at forty,
Or we have. no right to keep it.
So they chatter o’er their stitching,
Making woollen socks for soldiers
With their patriotic fingers,
And their thoughts on mundane matters.
Since the AVar ’tis somehow easier
To get parlor maids who suit you,
Though they will insist on Sundays
To walk out with different soldiers.
And, perhaps, out in the country
You’ll get cooks without much trouble.
Mrs. Backblock got a good one —
And they think the Labor party
Will not now be quite as cocky
Since hard times for all are coming.
So they stitch and knit and chatter
And the south wind blows my curtain
O’er a straggling bull), the summer
Tries to coax from its long slumber.
Talk moves on to lighter matters;
Someone has a red umbrella,
And they think that black were fitter,
Or a grey—like a destroyer.
People should go somewhat downcast
For the sake of murdered Belgians ;
And our own men in the trenches,
While my fancy limns her features—
The slim, young, unthinking woman
Who has bought a red umbrella
While the nation goes in mourning.
I feel she is pale and Spanish ;
Sure her hair is dark and heavy,
And her eyes are pools of darkness,
And her lids are fringed with lashes
Like the charcoal black of timber
Where the bush fire swept across it.
And I know that men will like her,
For she seems not loved by women;
And I know hers is the temper
To send men hot-foot to battle,
Keeping up a sinking suirit,
Keeping up the snare of glory,
And down in the sodden trenches
Men will dream of splendid sorties
To the blare of many bugles,
And some foolish, noble action
Done to save a rag, the dyer
Marks with red and blue, to make it
Redder with the red life fluid —
Just because two brown eyes watched him
When he marched away in khaki;
Just because two small hands clapped him
Even though he could- not trust her,
Even though, deep in his bosom,.
Stirred a little snake that whispered:
“When you’re gone some other fellow
Will try hard to count those lashes
Sheltered by that red umbrella;
And because you cross the ocean
He, perhaps, will count them closer.”
Past the window-box and curtain,
Where I dawdle in my office
Come the voices of the women
Feeling very brave and ample,
Making kit-bags for the soldiers,
Knitting socks for battle treaders,
And discussing babes and servants.
She won’t knit a sock—l know it—
If she did she’d drop the stitches;
But she’ll give the kind of glances
That make ramrods of the backbone;
And her face, across the battle,
Will come drifting like a challenge
Making spent men fight like devils
That the smoking surge may hurry
Up the bloody slope of Victory.
And they may return to find her
Smiling ’neath the red umbrella,
Saying she has not forgotten.
Whether they will quite believe it
Will not matter... .when they’re counting
Close again those long eyelashes.
Chatter on, O busy women!
Drink your tea without much sugar
(Somehow I am sure ’tis never
Strong and black, but pale and milky),
And say things about your servants
And run down the Labor party.
Really you don’t make me angry
Till the wind brings in your comment
On the merry unknown woman,
And I feel inclined to lean out
From the window of my office,
Fling a glove into the circle,
While I shout in thundering accents
To your virtuous amazement:
“I, for one, am glad she bought it!”
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, November 7, 1914.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Despite the rising temperature the Red
Cross enthusiasm fainteth not. The big
carnival which “Snowy” Baker is organising
is in an advanced stage of composition, and
what preparation “Snowy” overlooks an in-
fluential and energetic ladies’ committee
whirls to the front.
The backwash of the war has been felt
more than once in Parliament lately. The
other day it was at high tide when one mem-
ber accused Minister Appel of being a Ger-
man. That justly-aggrieved gentleman ap-
peared next day armed with a genealogical
tree which proved conclusively that he was
descended from French Huguenots. His
mother was a Miss Haussmann, whose
father was one of the Moravian mis-
sionaries who came to Australia in 1837 or
1838. After, that explanation there were
apologies and soda all round.
Miss Maude Harvie, of Melbourne, arrived,
under commission, in this outpost on Sunday
night, and on Monday harangued a meeting
of women at the Town Hall concerning the
preparation of bandages and comforts for
w r ar horses. The Mayor presided, and thp
P.C.A. Society was well represented. Miss
Gore and an army of other girls began to
work right away, so that if Australia delivers
an ultimatum to the Shah of Patagonia
everything will be in readiness.
The members of the Ascot Croquet Club
invited a party of friends last Saturday to
share their bread and green. Incidentally,
the club is constructing new lawns at
Windsor.
Another croquet tea was served in the
limelight on Thursday. The members of
the South Brisbane Club reverently gath-
ered around Mrs. E. T. White, and learnt
from her the very newest thing in croquet
as played “at Home” in between the arrival
of news about how one enemy has gone
crazy, while another has gone broke and
paid 2d. in the £.
Isabel Roberts, late of Brisbane Mail,
changed her name to McDaniell on Wednes-
day evening, in St. Mary’s Church. Kangaroo
Point. The wedding dress was of white
crepe de chine, with touches of pink, and
the beautiful lace veil was so old that it
may be reverently mentioned as an “heir-
loom.” Corinth Gailey was an effective
bridesmaid, and Ralph Gore was best man.
The Brisbane Amateur Operatic Society
produced _ “The Toreador” at His Majesty’s
this evening, and will play it each night for
another week. The proceeds trickle to the
Patriotic Fund. The more or less necessary
laurel wreaths go to George Webster, Mrs.
Jordan, Lottie Richter, Mrs. Harris and
Melrose Georgeson.
The November racing carnival began to-
day, and Ascot was crowded. Most of the
frocking was white. White was also the
color of a lot of people who didn’t back the
Whittingham horse Steely, which won the
two-year-old event and paid a dividend of
nearly £l4.
Rupert Carington’s son—who .is inciden-
tally squatter Horsfall’s grandson—is en-
gaged to Miss Bell, of the political-squatting
family. He is at the front, or thereabouts, at
present, so the wedding is by no means fixed.
He always yearned to be a soldier, but his
affluent grandparent wanted him to go on the
land. A compromise was ultimately arrived
at. He agreed to try the land for three
years on condition that, if he still hated it,
he should be allowed to go into the British
army via a militia regiment. His period of
probation was just up when the war came
and altered everything.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Bananaland’s fighting parson, Hulton
Sams, is back in his native Buckingham,
where his father is a rector. If Sams fulfils
the expectations of his admirers in the
mulga, he will soon be popping his dirty
left under the nose of a Kaiser battalion.
Dr. Hirschfeld is out of the Leg. Council
at last. As German Consul he should never,
of course, have been put in a place from
which he could practically command the run
of the Government offices. As soon as war
broke out he offered his resignation.
Apparently Denham or someone persuaded
him that it was all right. But as the anti-
Teuton flood rose higher and higher, and
events proved that there had been spying
everywhere, Dr. Hirschfeld was permitted
to quietly slip out of a seat which a better
friend would never have dropped him into.


/
*5
c
c
%
\
■?
'l^~A
brings Health
and Pleasure
WHEN the day’s work is over there
is nothing to equal the rejuvenating
effect of a cycle ride in the pure
country air. It is the finest tonic you can
have for clearing away the mental cobwebs,
and provides just the right amount of gentle
exercise under ideal conditions. There are
any number of beauty spots in your locality
you can reach easily and quickly on a
bicycle, and many a jolly week-end can be spent cycling, with
congenial company, exploring hitherto unknown ground. Unless
you make cycling your pastime you are missing one of the good
things of life. So make up your mind to get a bicycle now and
insist that it is built of GENUINE
«
r
FITTINGS
You will find it truest economy, for not only will you enjoy greater comfort and security with three or four
times the length of service that a cheap, “pattern” machine will give you, hut your bicycle will always have
a good selling value, as against the “scrap” price that the second-hand “pattern” machine usually fetches.
B.S.A. Fittings are manufactured throughout in the great B.S.A. Factories with the well-known B.S.A.
standard quality, material and workmanship. They can therefore be relied on to give the same satisfactory
service which has made B.S.A. productions world-famous. Every B.S.A. part is tested and gauged to
one-thousandth part of an inch, and B.S.A. Fittings are
GUARANTEED INTERCHANGEABLE
Exact replacements of any part can be obtained of all Australian Agents without delay. Don’t be put off
with any cheap “pattern” substitutes, but look for the B.S.A. Trade Marks on EVERY PART.
They are your guarantee.
Write for B.S.A. Handbook.
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing
B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
TRADEMARKS
Look for this Mark
on every part when
you buy a Bicycle.


*
<&£2>
mhm
d
For driving all kinds of machinery, they are handy, safe, reliable,
serviceable and economical.
They can be started quickly by simply closing a switch can be
installed on the floor, wall or ceiling consist of few
parts, and require no skilled attention. The many
advantages of the ELECTRIC MOTOR DRIVE
deserve your serious attention.
All Sizes in Stock, from 1-50th h.p. to 100 h.p., for all Standard
Voltages for Alternating and Direct Current Circuits.
You can always rely on your machine drive when you use
The British Thomson-Houston Company Ltd., Rugby, England,
ELECTRIC MOTORS.
We have illustrated booklets which we shall be pleased to send you on request.
Write to any of these offices —
<3»
ti
0
Cr Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street,
SYDNEY.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Aust., Ltd. (E.S.C.A.),
Edward Street.
—Agents—
Cor. Queen and Little Collins Streets,
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Dunedin, Auckland, Wellington & Christchurch.
yr
Ams No. 98AT.
Double Seamer.
The Seal
of Safety.
Ams Automatic
Double Seamers.
The Trade Standard.
Progressive Seamers for
Progressive Canners.
Make Your Cans with Ams Machinery
We furnish machines for mak-
ing tin cans of every descrip-
tion, for Sardines, Peas, Fruit,
all Food Products, Spices, Teas,
Coffee, Tobacco, Paint and Oil
Cans.
These machines are automatic throughout, and are fitted with Govei
Feed, Can Straightener and Plunger, and make a very complete and service-
able Double Seamer. They are rigid in construction, complete lubrica mg
system, ease and convenience in operating, plenty of speed, and will do the
work cut out for them. The can stands still during the seaming operation
and boy or girl can run these double seamers.
Takes all standard sizes including No. 3’s. Out-
put over 50 per minute. The 988 for gallon cans
from 40 per minute. We are specialists in this
line. It is not a side issue.
We build complete can-making equipments.
Write to us about your intentions. We are in
business to answer questions. Experiment if you
like, but come to Ams for standard.
Send us a sample of what you want to make.
CORRESPONDENCE AND ESTIMATES IN EVERY
LANGUAGE.
MAX AMS MACHINE COMPANY,
MOUNT VERNON, N.Y„ U.S.A.
CHARLES M. AMS, President.
Address us direct or through any EXPORT
COMMISSION HOUSE.
sonit (
oCoer
eaU
3 Splendid Records
Florence Smithson
Miss Smithson is now starring at the Sydney
TIVOLI. Hers is undoubtedly a phenomenal
voice, with an amazing range over the higher
notes. These records represent her at her very best.
03284 Vale of Dreams, 12in 6/-
03354 My Boy, 12in 6/-
3917 Waltz Song, “Tom Jones,”
lOin 4/5
I 'mmi
rr\
•v,
i WU>
mm
ysSA
m
> ! I
,'|T
r. r?
HIS MASTER’S VOICE Records
Are Made in England.
The little dog that represents triumphal musical attainment is to-day one of
the watch-dogs of Old England. Many of the men who made this trade-mark
famous —“His Master’s Voice” artists and operatives —are to-day making
England’s history, just as yesterday they mad e England’s music.
Buy “His Master’s Voice” BRIT ISII instruments and records.
Instrument catalogue, record lists and name of nearest
dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 Pitt Street
SYDNEY.
Ki> MaKttkVox*


NO INCREASE
IN PRICES of
V
MICH ELIN
TYRES
Uninterrupted Supplies
during' the War obtainable
from all beading' Ag'ents.
“ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of "Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
ď
Abbey’s
Shoe Catalog
will enable you to choose the style
of shoe you require. Send for a
free copy.
If you are not satisfied with
ABBEY SHOES when you receive
them, your money will be willingly
refunded.
The illustration shows our latest
model, a Choice, Patent Oxford
Bal., with Dull Calf Legs,. ,32/0
In Highest-Grade Tan Willow
Calf 307-
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage 9d. extra.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. anil Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
f
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale ot
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive y«ti. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia
MARE YOUR OWN ICE.
The A.S. Machines represent the latest development in
small refrigerating plants. They are completely self-
contained and enclosed, and can be used for cold storage
chambers, for milk cooling and other dairy purposes,
for making block ice for household use, and for
many special purposes.
The outstanding features of these machines are simplicity
and reliability. They are rotary machines without
gauges, stop-cocks, valves, packings, glands or any
internal parts subjedt to wear. They never require
recharging with chemicals, and beyond stopping and
starting, and occasional inspection of the two lubricators,
absolutely ncTother attention is required.
NO DANGER OF EXPLOSION
ABSOLUTE RELIABILITY
NO LEAKAGE OF GAS
MAXIMUM ECONOMY
MODERATE IN PRICE
■
m
mx
REMOVING A BLOCK OF ICE FROM THE MACHINE
Only a few left in Stock: order NOW for this Summer.
Representatives for New South Wales and Queensland:
HAES & EGGERS LIMITED,
163 Clarence Street
SYDNEY.


Amusement**.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
Twice Daily, at 2.30 and 8.
Twice Daily, at 2.30 and 8.
rl VO L I THEATRE. SYDNEY.
J. W. RICKABY. FLORENCE SMITHSON.
MDLLE. DE DIO. ROBERTS & LESTER.
TOM KELLY. STELLING & REVELL.
GEORGE WHITEHEAD. JAMES TEDDY.
GILBERT & ERICSON.
ONE THOUSAND FEET OF WAR PICTURES.
Box Plan at Theatre and Nicholson's.
IVOI,I
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
PAUL CINQUEVALLI. AL HERMAN.
FATIMA. MARCO & FANG HON WOLFF.
MDDLE. DAVENPORT. FIELDS & COCO.
FOUR BOISES.
RICH & GALVIN. VAUDE & VERNE.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
PRICES: 4/-, 3/-. 2/-, 1/-
IVO L I THEATRE. ADELAIDE
D’ARMOND & WOLF.
WRIGHT & DIETRICH.
ALVERITO REGGO & STOPPITT.
JOHN EARL.
And a Host of Others.
H
MAJESTY’S,
SYDNEY.
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN COMIC OPERA.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF lOLANTHE.
SATURDAY NEXT, AT 8.
THE YEOMEN OF THE GUARD.
SUPERB AUSTRALIAN CHORUS.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
D A L A C E T II E A T R K. S V It N E X.
■ Direction ALLEN DOONE.
EVERY EVENING.
ALLEN DOONE
and his popular Company in the new Comedy Drama,
THE BOLD SOJER BOY.
By Theo. Burt Sayre, author of “The Wearing of
the Green.”
Prices: 4/-, 2/6, 1/-. Early Door Gallery and Stalls,
6d. extra. Early Door Gallery, Saturdays and Holidays,
1/- extra. Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
SYDNEY.
RITERION THEATRE;
Lessee FRANK MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
FRED NIBLO & JOSEPHINE COHAN
And J. C. Williamson’s Popular Comedy Players,
in George M. Cohan’s Mystery Farce,
SEVEN KEYS TO BALDPATE,
Founded on the Story by Earl Derr Biggers.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
nEL r II I THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
Last Two Nights of THE KELLY GANG.
SATURDAY NEXT,
George Willoughby’s New Dramatic Company in
the great sensational London drama,
A DAUGHTER OF ISRAEL.
Prices of Admission:—Week Nights: Front Stalls,
2/-: Dress Circle. 1/6; Back Stalls, 1/-; Gallery,
6d. Saturday Night: 3/-. 2/- and 1/-.
THE LITTLE THEATRE. SYDNEY.
1 Direction ~ HUGH BUCKLER LTD.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.10.
MR. HUGH C. BUCKLER
and
MISS VIOLET PAGET
in the most successful play of the year,
HIS HOUSE IN ORDER.
Plan at Paling's. Prices as usual.
You haven't seen Sydney until you’ve visited
HE I’ICTUKK BLOCK THEATRES,
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
“HE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
First Appearance of Australia’s Favorite,
MISS NELLIE STEWART,
MADAME DU BARRY.
Prices: 7/6, 5/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plans Allan’s.
HER .MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
THU GIRL IN THE TAXL
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices: 65., 45., 2s. and Is.
Theatre royal, Melbourne,
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
FOR A-FEW NIGHTS ONLY.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present
MURIEL STARR
WITHIN THE LAW.
FOR A FEW NIGHTS ONLY.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- : Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
; I NCEjSS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, NOVEMBER 14.
Geo. Willoughby, Ltd., present the Great
Sensational Drama,
THE SLEDGE-HAMMER.
Prices: 3/-, 2/-, and 1/-. Plan at Pianola.
Esplanade, st. kilda, Melbourne.
Direction NIGEL BROCK.
THE GREEN DANDIES.
EVERY EVENING at 8.30.
Prices 2/- and 1/-. NO BOOKING FEE.
I J O U THEATRE, M E L B O U IS N E.
FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON, 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
FLL'S PERFORMING LIONS, KELLY &
CK MANN & FRANKS, DOROTHY HARRIS,
SWIFT, VALENTINE & BELL, STAN STAN-
ESSIE & DOLLY MILLAJt.
2/6, 2/-, !/• & 6d. Matfnfies: 1/6, 1/- & 6d.
PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
THREE BIG SHOW S.
OLYMPIA, Princes Bridge.
NATIONAL THEATRE, Bourke Street (Eastern end).
HOYT’S OWN, Bourke Street, centre (now building).
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL.
I It C II
& CARROLL
_ (Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS. .
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centies (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Heap Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 31st October, 1914.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
Tenders for—
(a) Blue Serge,
(b) Cordage,
(c) Asbestos Packing and Rubber
Sheeting,
(d) Jams.
riYENDERS will be received, subject to
I the conditions of tender, until noon on
the undermentioned dates, for the supply of
the following to the Royal Australian Navy:
Tenders close noon on
(a) Blue Serge. .Monday, 16th Nov., 1914
(b) Cordage . . Wednesday, 18th Nov., 1914
(c) Asbestos Packing & Rubber Sheeting —
Wednesday, 18th Nov., 1914
(d) Jams Friday, 20th Nov., 1914
Tender forms and all particulars may be
obtained from the Director of Navy Con-
tracts, Navy Office, Melbourne, or at the
Naval Staff Offices, Brisbane, Largs Bay,
Fremantle and Hobart. At Sydney infor-
mation regarding (a) and (d) can be
obtained from the Victualling Store Officer,
Royal Edward Victualling Yard; and for
(b) and (c) from the Naval Store Officer,
Garden Island.
Tenders to be endorsed “Tender for
on top left-hand corner of the
envelope, and addressed to the Director of
Navy Contracts, Navy Office, Melbourne, or
to the Director of Navy Contracts, care of
one of the addresses mentioned above.
Tenders to be in all cases on the printed
form, which can be obtained as above.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
G. F. PEARCE,
Minister of State for Defence.
u
'»)
1
HO RUCK’S
MALTED MILK
There is no need to ques-
tion the purity of your milk
supply if you use Horlick’s.
In addition, it has the advan-
tage of being more nourish-
ing than ordinary cows’
milk. It proves an invaluable
Food-Drink to infants, in-
valids, and in fact all who
need building up.
Sample sent on receipt of 24.
Sample
will
be ssnt on
rec Ipt
of 2d. In_
stamps. -
VIST)
©
* fiFMS
Hutchinson
& Co.,
26, Jamieson
Street,
Sydney,
N.S.W.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 16/- per day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
WHY GIVE
Electro-plated Wedding Presents when Sterling Silver
costs no more?
Our managing director, when in Sheffield, was
ordering thousands of pounds’ worth of Sterling
Silver Tableware, and got quotations per ounce for
hundreds of a line of the more ordinarily used
articles, such as Sauce Boats, Cake Baskets, Salt
Pourers, Sugar Casters, etc. He allowed the makers
to make them in slack times, and deliver when con-
venient. We pay spot cash against delivery in
London. . . , , . ,
Many of these astomshingly-low-priced lines have
reached us.
The above is one of them.
They are unexampled value.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
PLAIN FIGURES—STRICTLY CASH.
SSSpHSSSHB
Very heavy Sterling Silver Fruit Dish,
8 inches in diameter .... £5/5/-
Less 20% discount 1/1/-
£4/4/.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 HTJNTER. STREET.
X
ft
A
HI
%m
c>
35
JO
mi
■o
eg
5»
:w l> ‘'lllllli;'.~.;»i...i.milllllllti)
A Smile After Shaving
Comfort during-and
after-your shcfite
comes with
COLGATE’S
StIAOtHC STICK
Its rich softening lather
helps the razor, and leaves
the face cool and refreshed.
The feeling of a clean
smooth skin is only one
reward for saying “Colgate’s ’
when you buy a shaving
preparation. Just try
Colgate’s Stick for your
shave to-morrow morning.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
If you wish a trial size—enough for a
month’s use—use the coupon.
COUPON.
Chipman, Ltd.,
54, Margaret Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me a trial size of Colgate’s Shaving Stick,
in a handsome nickelled box. I enclose ad. in stamps to
defray cost of packing and postage.
Name
Addre-s
THE RAZOR FOR YOU!
<T*v"
V-
ns:
There can be no question that the razor you need is the
“ PLUM ” RAZOR.
The finest razor on the market, with a blade that keeps a keen edge
indefinitely. When you use a “Plum” you get an easy shave that
leaves the face soft as velvet. We are practical and know
the edge required to give the best results. There’s a reason why you
TRY A “PLUM”—IO 6, Post Free.
We keep it in perfect order for two years, free -of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a handsome present.
All the Above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITH.EN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.


Became Running Sores, Itching
and Pain' Kept Her Awake At
Night. Used Cuticura Remedies,
Trouble Quite Left Her,
“Edgecliile,” Victoria St., ArnclilTo,
N. S. W. —“My little girl Violet, when two
years of age, got blood poisoning through
*** nf*
hip
being bitten by mos-
quitoes. The bites
seemed to spread and
become running sores
and scabs all over her
body. The itching
and pain would keep
her awake at night and
she would scratch the
sores, which of course
only made them worse. I tried all sorts of
remedies and advice to cure her, for over
three months, but without any sign of the
sores going away. One day I saw the Cuti-
cura Remedies advertised, and reading of a
cure obtained through using Cuticura, I
sent for a sample of Cuticura Ointment,,
which I applied as directed. When the
sample was finished I purchased the Cuti-
cura Remedies, and after about a fortnight
you could see that she was much better. I
continued using the Cuticura Remedies and
in three months’ time the trouble had quite
left her, and although she is now just over
four years, no signs of the trouble have ever
returned.” (Signed) Mrs. J. Dye, June,
1912.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment do so much
for poor complexions, red) rough hands, and
dry, thin and falling hair, and cost so little,
that it is almost criminal not,to use them.
Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Ointment are
sold throughout the world. Liberal sample
of each mailed free, with 32-p. Skin Book.
Address R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Violent Cathartics
Injure Health
Don’t take purgatives —their harsh action
is liable to injure the bowels. Why not use
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER
PILLS, a purely vegetable
remedy that has been
successfully used by
millions for half-a-
century. Acts
gently but surely
and not only
quickly re-
lieves but
for ever
d
Carters
•ITTLE •
IVER
PILLS.
ends the misery of constipation. Use them for dizzi-
ness, indigestion, sick headache and all liver troubles.
Small Fill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The
GENUINE
must bear
Signature
ďf
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
axe, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. B.
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to applv,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. B. ALLEN S iu.s.a.)
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suitable
for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
Cigar and Cigarette
Smokers’ Attention.
CjEND Eight Shillings for trial box of
lO 100 Manila Cigars, Best Grade. Eight
Shillings for 500 Philippine Cigarettes—cork
tipped —Best Grade. Satisfaction or Money
refunded.
Sent prepaid by registered parcel post to
any address on receipt of price.
Write for handsome illustrated free cata-
logue.
PATTINGELL 8 CO., Lucena, Tayabas, P.I.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HOLDS THE WORLD’S RECORD for LARGEST BONUSES-
NEXT DISTRIBUTION OF PROFITS AS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1914.
ALL participating policies issued in the Ordinary Department before the close of the current year will
share in the Cash Bonus to be then allotted.
Cash Bonus divided for year 1913. . . . . . . £983,500
Yielding reversionary additions to policies of over . . . . £1,730,00©
SOCIETY IS PURELY MUTUAL. NO SHAREHOLDERS.
ALL the profits earned are distributed among the participating policy-holders.
NOW is the time to effect an assurance or a further assurance on your life so as to reap the benefit of
this year’s cash Bonus.
WRITE to the Head Office, 87 Pitt Street, Sydney, or any District Office* or Agent of the Society for
full particulars.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., 'F.S.S.,
General Manager and Actuary.
S STEEL
Acting Secretary,
JAME
ANEMIA
and Weakness
in Men, Women, and Children
Dr. ANDREW WILSON writes :
“It can be definitely stated
“that Iron ‘Jelloids’ constitute
“ the most effective and desirable
“ treatment for Anaemia or Poor-
ness of Blood. The sufferer is able
“to take Iron ‘Jelloids’ without danger,
“ even with pleasure, and with the sure
“knowledge that benefit will accrue.”
and re “ MEN AND TONICS.”
“ There is a curious notion entertained by
“ the General Public that Iron Medicaments
“ are necessary for women only, and not for
“ Men. This is an erroneous idea. Now I
“ have found the form of Iron ‘ Jelloids ’ put
“up with Quinine (cilled Iron ‘Jelloids’
“ No. 2a) to be an excellent tonic for men,
“and may be specially recommended.”
Breathing, hurried and gasping, on the slightest exertion, pale cheeks
lacking the ruddy glow of health, bloodless lips, a general feeling of weari-
ness—accompanied maybe by pain after food, indigestion—constipation,
listlessness, inability of application to any pursuit or even train of thought
depression of spirits, and irritability of temper. Such symptoms indicate
Anremia, and should, on no account, be neglected.
d
ď
f
d
ďf
will remove the causes and symptoms of Anaemia. Iron is
what your system requires. By taking it in the form of Iron
‘Jelloids’ the not uncommon disadvantages of other Iron
tonics are avoided. No ill-effects are set up. No constipation.
No “rust ”in the stomach. No danger of non-absorption.
No fear of injury to the teeth. If you would have radiant
health, an elastic step and well braced nerves, you must
have healthy blood. To improve and strengthen the blood
take Iron ‘Jelloids,’ commended by Medical Men, and
favourably reviewed by the Medical Press. As a general
tonic Iron ‘Jelloids ’ are excellent. They are pleasant and
easy to take.
A Reliable Tonic
Mr A Knowles, 12, Sower Lane, Mytongate, Hull, Writes .•—“For years
I was ill with Anremia. lam now in the best of health after taking a
course of your ‘Jelloids.’ I shall never forget to recommend them to any
sufferers I come across, for 1 know I am doing them a kindness.”
A Fortnight s Trial (price 1/6) will
convince you.
/RON JELLOIDS ARE SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRAtIA.
No. x for Children ; No. 2 for Adults, Men and Women;
No. 2 A (containing Quinine) Special Tonic for Men.
Wholesale: DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES LTD., 82, Pitt Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Manufactured only by
The * Jelloid’ Co., 205, City Rd., London, England.
d
THEY are called “Bostock Gold Medal Shoes”
in most stores. The great reputation they
enjoy to-day throughout Australasia has been
won by sincerity of manufacture. Honest through
and through, they prove in wear to be as good as
they look. Under their beautiful finish are always
found the choicest of materials; and, whether on
the foot or in the hand, the skilful work, con-
spicuous in every pair, never fails to command
one’s admiration.
Bostocks are the cream of imported shoes.
Special shipments have recently arrived at the
leading stores, and ladies should call before the
choicest styles are sold.
am
■
Style 604
SOS
Business, Bobbery, etc.
The monster Socialism, in the form of a
State-owned steamship, now threatens the
people of Flinders and King Islands. Curi-
ously enough, they don’t seem half as terri-
fied as they should be. Private Enterprise
has been considerate enough to look in on
them on rare occasions; but, being a com-
bine on a Lilliputian scale, and possessing
the same characterstics as the mammoth of
the species, it has done what it liked and
charged what it pleased. The Tas. Labor
Government now proposes to spend £15,000
on an up-to-date little steamer to promote
the trade and comfort of the fertile little dots
in Bass Straits, and the population knows
so little about tigers that it is actually
cheering.
“Black Swan”: The war threatens to
wipe out the pearling business for a year
or two at least. On the Nor’-West of
Westralia there reigns a great slump, and
Broome, the pearling capital, is threatened
with total eclipse. Every coaster is taking
south the - white population, and soon the
colored," in its many varieties, will be scarce.
London lias informed the dealers that sales
are impossible. The Mexican muddle rattled
the New York market, and now Paris, Ber-
lin, Petrograd and Vienna are paying too
much for bread and cheese and guns to have
any cash to spare for gewgaws. Amongst
the messages received at Broome is one with
the illuminating remark that there are 1000
tons of shell in London which nobody will
buy. Pearls are even a greater drug than
shell, and a “stone” which, six months ago,
would have brought £5OOO is now unsaleable
at half that figure. The small owners, who
can’t afford to store shell and wait till the
clouds roll by, are wiped out. The big firms
may keep the boats at sea till the crews
have worki|d off their debit balances. Then
their luggers, too, must go on the beach.
The discolored divers and tenders and what-
not will have to be returned to Singa-
pore, as they cannot legally be employed on
shore. Great is the sag in the middle of
Things Generally
“Aero”: A new type of aeroplane was pur-
chased from its inventor by ,T. Bull's War
Office just before the storm broke in Europe.
Of course, the trade doesn't know much
about it, but the yarn is that, besides being
almost noiseless, the unique craft can ascend
and descend vertically. It does not require
a long run and a gradual climb. Also, so it
is alleged, it can, within certain limits, hover.
That in itself is a big step forward. It is the
smallest ’plane ever designed, is ex-
tremely light and portable. and pos-
sesses exceptional speed; in fact, it
has so many virtues that I wonder
why the war cables haven’t been shouting
hosannas about it. All I can think of is
that about four-fifths of its alleged virtues
have leaked away somehow.
* * -X- *
“F.C.”: Here is another example of the
blastiferous folly of the importing habit. For
the central power-house of Melbourne’s
suburban electric-railway system the allegedly
Protective State of Victoria is importing no
less than £140,000 worth of constructional
work that could have been done on the spot.
That piece of treachery to the taxpayers was
bad enough, but, of course, the war has
upset transport arrangements, and now the
whole electrification business is put back
months, if not years. If the declared policy of
the Commonwealth, which successive Victorian
Governments have always professed to re-
spect, had been honestly carried out, not only
would that £140,000 worth of much-needed
work have been available, but thousands
more pounds’ worth would not have been
hung up, and that £140,000. as well as the
work which it bought, would still have been
in the country.
* * * *
“Clinker”: The Outback swaggie, who
swears off after each jamboree, is not in it
with the cocky. Three times during the
present century has he declared, with dust
in his whiskers and the light of repentance
in his eye, that never again would he be
caught without a 12 months’ supnly of
forage in reserve. At this, the fourth, time
there is less fodder on hand than in 1902,
and the wails of the backbone are loud in
the land. When one sees the starving
stock, the wanton cruelty as well as the
national waste caused by this criminal negli-
gence is painfully apparent. How about a
short Act to provide that all landholders
shall reserve from year to year fodder in
ratio to the area and classification of their
lands, with a good stiff penalty for non-
compliance ?
THE LAST DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Last Day—so I dreamt—had come 1
When sleep is a delirium
Of shrieking shrapnel, battle-drum,
And all war’s grim array;
The old world’s end quite easily
Becomes a stark reality !
And thus the nightmare came to me—
It was the dread Last Day !
Crash ! Biff!! The Crack of Doom 1 heard 1
The final scene, so long deferred,
At length was staged ! Without a word
Of warning, Chaos reigried!
Immense things into Nothingness
Dissolved. The stars grew less and Dss,
And vanished, leaving no address !
I, of all men, remained !
I felt Earth crumble ’neath my feet;
The ’ cataclysm was complete ;
The heart of Time had ceased to beat
And, at the final stroke,
There was a roar of rushing spheres
And hissing planets in my ears;
I prayed, I cursed, I wept—my tears
Ran down. Then —I awoke !
Shaking as though with ague, I
Leapt from my couch of terror. By
The full moon’s light I could descry
A world from hon ors free;
Across the street 1 saw —'twould seem
The flaring poster proved my dream—
A tailor's advertising scheme:
“Last clay of trousers free!”
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


The Recognised Leading House for all
rSMOKERS & SHAVERS’ REQUISITES
PIPES.
H
I
G
H
<'o
G
R
A
D
E
‘N.L. Pipes, made from finest quality old
briar root, with superior hand-cut Para vul-
canite mouthpieces. Heavy Silver mounts.
All shapes 3/- each (post free)
ď
f
“Goudron,” finest quality
Natural Block
Meerschaum Pipes.
THE
SWEETEST
AND
COOLEST
SMOKING
PIPES EVER PRODUCED.
Para Vulcanite Mouthpieces, in case,
8/0, 10/6, 12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 21/-
each (post free).
Natural Pressed Amber Mouthpieces,
in case,
12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 18/6, 25/- each
(post free).
CIGARS
QUALITE
OE LUXE.
“Golden Key”
Cigars, of exquisite
aroma and infinite
charm.
The Standard
of Luxury
in Smoking.
d
Put up in cedar cabinets containing—
-25 cigars, 11/C; 50 cigars, 22/6
(post free).
Sample boxes of 5 cigars, 2/6 (post
free).
CIGARETTES.
Delightful, Fascinating
“Three Witches”
Cigarettes, made from
selected, sun-ripe
Virginian Tobacco.
Finest quality.
5/- per 100 (post
free;.
I hree Witches
ICAJICTTES
Jf IORHib
9. Sons L t
TOBACCOS.
“Sunol,” highest grade Virginian, awarded 4
gold medals. Dark or Light. In plug Ol*
cut, 6/- per lb. (post free).
“IjOUUs” Smoking Mixture, choicest tobaccos,
skilfully blended. Put up in 2oz. tins.
8/6 per lb. (post free).
Tobacco Pouches
H
A
N
D
Y
w-'t
i«2'’tK
c
0
M
P
A
C
T
Wallet Pouch, Split Calf 2/9 each
„ ~ Real Morocco .. 3/6 »
„ „ Calf Crocodile .. 4/6 »
„ „ Gazelle 5/- »
„ „ Velvet Calf .... 6/6 »
'IVWU
POCKET LIGHTERS.
The “Sunol” Pocket
Lighter. Every smoker
should have one. Simple
in construction. Nothing
to get out of order.
2/- each (post free).
CIGAR and CIGARETTE
HOLDERS.
Amber Cigar Holders, silver rim,
in case, 6/6, 7/6 each.
Amber Cigar Holders, gold rim,
in case, 10/6, 11/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, silver
rim, in case 4/- 4/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, gold rim, in
case 7/6, 8/6 each.
SHAVING SETS.
N
0
T
H
I
N
G
ďf
B
E
T
T
E
R
Shaving Sets, comprising 1 renowned C. 8.8.
Razor, 1 C. 8.8. Razor Strop, 1 Badger Hair
Shaving Brush, and stick Williams's Soap —■
18/6 (post tree).
RAZORS
R
A
R
E
d
Q
u
A
L
I
T
Y
The “Hitite” Razor, pronounced by experts
to be absolutely perfect. None to
equal it. Kept in good order for 2 years,
free of charge—
Vulcanite Handle 7/6 each (post free).
Ivory Handle 10/6 each (post free).
SAFETY RAZORS.
The Celebrated “Auto Strop” Safety
Razor, complete with 12 blades and strop,
in leather case .. .... 22/6 (post free).
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney
Branches: CITY, SUBURBS and NEWCASTLE.
KYNOCH
USE
BRITISH MADE
.22 Rim Fire CARTRIDGES
Head Works: Birmingham, England. And at Melbourne 8 Sydney.
BROOKS 8400
Motor Cycle Saddle, with vertical
motion and the patent Compound
Springs. BROOKS Saddles owe
their perfect comfort and splendid
wearing qualities to BROOKS experi-
ence and BROOKS determination to
supply, at any cost, only the best
possible article.
BROOKS
OF ALL
DEALERS
ď
FAIRBANKS-MORSE SEMI-DIESEL
Heavy Duty Marine Engines
Not limited to one fuel, these type “CO” Engines run perfectly on
many grades of oil. Use low-priced fuels that are easily obtainable,
greatly decreasing operating cost of work boats and fishing boats.
Let us give you particulars. Ask for Catalog 1939-26 E.
FAIRBANKS, MORSE ®. CO.,
CHICAGO
U.S.A.
C. H. Relph,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Webster & Co., Ltd.,
Brisbane, Queensland.
Malloch Bros.,
Perth, W.A.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. ' Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
IJOOK OK NATURE AND IMAJSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mereie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friknd, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly's Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Danck, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Elandkrs, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Ts 6d each, posted. Educating tiik
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made East, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Sewjr for Hist). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop llandykook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life.
Ios6d. Ausr. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. -History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for tiik
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for. all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
is 3d. Theory of Value, ls6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups. Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
0
H
i
Si
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPUI.AU “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Paires.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and snows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. ~m
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working fop. Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How TO \ AMP ON PIANO. Is. PIANO TUNING AND
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Games), is. How to
Mesmerise, Is So. Man Prom Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. Is i post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s ' 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. Mf Established 25 Tears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for iny....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Thicks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d nose. Du. Milford's Mid-
wipe’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6<l. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers'
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chkvasse’s Advicr to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bbnnarp, Macfadden's Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, lspost. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing" Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.'


MISS BRYDIE REVENALL,
one of the Famous Beauty Girls of
the Australian Pantomime, praises
REXONA.
f
ďf
d
MISS BRYDIE REVENALL
(Brand Studio Photo.).
Her Majesty’s Theatre,
Sydney.
To the Rexona Proprietary Company,
Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —As a dancer let me say
a word of tribute as to the virtues of
your wonderful “Rexona,”
When I was apnearing in the
“Puss in Boots” pantomime
—“The Gipsy Ballet”—I
strained my ankle. A mem-
ber of the comnany brought
me a box of “Rexona” from
her dressing-room. There
was only a little in the pot,
but after rubbing it in it
relieved the pain, and next
day I bought enough to com-
pletely put my sore muscles in order.
I always keep it by me now, and use
it as an embrocation to keep my
limbs and muscles supple and strong.
Wishing your valuable “Rexona”
continued success,
Yours faithfully,
( Sgd.) BRYDIE RE YEN ALL.
REXONA EVERYBODY’S FRIEND.
Many prominent artists have testified to the value of Rexona, the Rapid Healer.
Miss Gwen Burroughs says: I always keep a pot of Rexona on my dressing-table,
and consider it simply indispensable. I always use it after surfing, and find it
simply splendid for sunburn and for preserving the skin.” Miss Ivy Schilling
recommends it as a rub-down after acrobatic dancing, and as a magical reviver for
strained muscles. Mrs. Robert Brough writes: "I consider it a necessity in every
household.” Margaret Dale-Owen says that Rexona is a perfect balm for sun-
burn, chapped hands, or any chance abrasion. Miss Ethel Buckley says that at
all times she has found its healing properties to say the least wonderful.
In all walks of life is Rexona recommended. Noted swimmers, oarsmen,
cyclist and football players have added their testimony to Rexona.
Rexona is sold only in pots at 1/0, or in larger pots, containing almost four
times the quantity, at 3/- Rexona Skin and Facial Soap is excellent to use with
Rexona, and is specially designed for the delicate skin of the face, and is medicated
on the same principle as the famous Rexona.
ďf
Choose a “ Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer—those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation,
hand suited exactly.
Swan safety
Garv’t Leak,
Blot, Miss,
ox* Scratch !
Every
The .
Catalogue free on request.
MArilE, TODD & CO., London and
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a
George St,, Sydney.
SHEAR WITH THE FAMOUS
FALKINER ELECTBIC EQUIPMENT
1
(1) It is easy to erect.
(2) Entire absence of trouble*
some line shafting.
(3) Independent motor for each
man.
(4) Electric power available for
shed lighting.
5) The patent universal joint
enables the shearer to
work with ease and com-
fort.
Invented by a practical Australian Pastoralist, it will be found Ihe
FALKINER ELECTRIC SHEEP SHEARING Machine combines
many striking advantages, of which the following are a few: —
(6) Any hand piece may be
used.
(7) Silent running and practi-
cally no v.bration.
(8) No special type of shed
necessary—the Faiklner
Electric Machine will fit
any shed, old or new.
(9) Electricity is the safest,
cheapest and cleanest
power!
This machine, which has been patented all over
the world, stands unique in design, simple in con-
struction, and unequalled in small consumption of
power. Sheep are shorn at the minimum of cost
and the maximum of efficiency.
Write for full details, also for our illustrated leaflet
dealing with the Electric Lighting of Shearing Sheds.
fairiner
ELECTRIC COY.
103-5 William St., Melbourne, and Somerset House, 5 Moore St., Sydney
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
The Unfortunate Family.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It does seem an extraordinary thing that, while
one Broken Hill mine—the B. H. Proprietary—is
alone responsible for the production of zinc material
capable of supplying a quarter of the whole world’s
output of zinc, it has had to practically cease opera-
tions because the German and Belgium smelters are
idle. It is also a singular fact that Welsh coal is
actually imported by Germany for smelting Broken
Hill zinc concentrates. —Wail from S. M. Herald.
YOU all know the story of the Unfor-
tunate Family, earner ados ?
Or, at least, one version of it?
Here is another —with additions, emendations
and various alterations.
We—You and Me—are the Unfortunate
Family, camerados;
Not, perhaps, so unfortunate as we might be!
Or as we may be !.... or deserve to be !....
But quite as unfortunate as we expected to
be.
Did we ever expect to be unfortunate?
Bah! Bosh! Pish! Tush!
What, US? Unfortunate!
■ Impossible ! Absurd !! No ’ope !!!
So said all our Great Dailies ; so declared our
Clever Politicians; even so announced
our Real Statesmen.
‘‘Far removed from the maelstrom of war .. ..
unparalleled natural resources .... self-
contained. ...sovereign States. . ..natural
protection .... Vast distance precludes
competition. .. .primary industries para-
mount.... all public works constructed
from loans... .absolutely permanent and
reproductive. .. .immeasurably cheaper
to import... .tariffs unnecessary, restric-
tive, exasperating”....
And so on, and so forth.
That was the way they talked — talked —
TALKED!
Everything in the Garden was lovely!
Ah, yes ; indeed !
And we—the Unfortunate Family—believed
it!
Approved, endorsed, re-echoed and applauded
it!!
Positively “shouted” for the braying idiots
who told, declared and preached those
doctrines....
O camerados, what unutterable asses we
have been !... .
During aeons untold the Cosmic Processes
were packing into what is now Aus-
tralia stores of metals and minerals-
Coal, iron, copper, gold, silver, tin, mercury,
cobalt, manganese, chromium, molyb-
denum, nickel, zinc and many others —
Also, non-metalliferous substances of great
value, such as graphite, shale, clays,
asbestos, marble, syenite, sandstone,
granite and slate—
Not to speak of opal, turquoise, sapphires,
garnets, topaz and a dozen other precious
stones!
As a matter of fact, and as a Bare Acknow-
ledgment to the said Cosmic Pro-
cesses—which men name Goo —this
Continent we call Australia got a large
helping when the world’s Good Things
were being handed out !
In the Two Billionth Year (or thereabouts)
our Unfortunate Family was most liber-
ally allowed to step in and take posses-
sion of the place.
They didn’t know what to do with it.
Hence they were truly an Unfortunate
Family.
Our Ma came and looked at Australia, and
saJ d Perhaps some of it might grow
potatoes!
But she shook her head when one of the
rarnily (cursed with brains) pointed
out the iron-ore and remarked that he
could make her a fork to dig her
potatoes.
“No, no!” Ma answered firmly; “I will im-
port a fork. Water the cows, James,
and do not meddle in things that are
too high for you !”
And James didn’t!
Again, when Henry suggested that perhaps
it might be as well to utilise some of
the tin (which abounded) in making
vessels for dairy and other use, Ma
objected:
“Henry,” she said, “profane not the mys-
teries ! This tin is not like Cornish
tin. It is inferior. I will import tins
in due season. You go and see when
the next ship is due!”
And Henry went!
Even when William pointed out that, with
coal and lime in abundance, he could
smelt the iron-ore and manufacture
horseshoes, Ma nobly refused.
"Speak not thus, William ! Your aged Ma
knows best. Who ever heard of such a
young country not importing its horse-
shoes? Beware of vanity and sac-
rilege !”
And William bewore!....
They were a very Unfortunate Family—
they lacked common sense and determi-
nation.
-L hey had ideas ; but Ma had all the determina-
tion.
Camerados, we are the descendants of
James, and William, and Henry ;
H e are the Unfortunate Family !
H e lack Common sense and Determination.
It we possessed Common sense and Determi-
nation we should be a fortunate
family!
If we possessed Common sense and Determi-
nation we should know what to do with
Australia—
And we should do it.
The vast Storehouse of the Cosmic Pro-
cesses would then be used by the
people and in the manner originally
intended.
The Great Dailies, and the Clever Politi-
cians, and the Real Statesmen would
receive the Deaf Ear and the Scornful
Eye!
Everybody would be too busv mining and
smelting ores and casting, forging,
making, designing, inventing, organising
and exporting solid, honest and useful
Australian manufactures of metal!
Che voice of Ma would not be heard for the
rattle and roar of the machinery.
The Voice of Ma, mourning for her children
in the Valley of Dead Importers, would
sound like the buzz of a mosquito out-
side the barbette of a super-dread-
nought !
And we, cnmerados, would become a power-
ful, affluent and moderately-contented
r amily of considerable numerousness.
Now—in every sense of the words—is the
time to prove your mettle.
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.
His Brother’s Keeper.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
GORDON, editor of the Frivolity Page,
was the handsome man of the staff.
Also, he was a poet, and looked it.
It was unfortunate for him that it was so,
for women first of all raved over his exqui-
site verses and wanted to see him that they
might gaze on genius, and when they did
gaze they raved worse than ever over the
man, and even quarrelled and fought over
him. This far-flung admiration is a glorious
thing on paper, but it cost Gordon much
trouble and annoyance.
Not only was he a poet, but he was a
successful one who used to collect solid pay-
ment for his output of verse, and as he col-
lected a handsome salary as Frivolity
Editor, he was that rare and beautiful pro-
duct, a handsome bard who was occasionally
affluent.
The Fighting Editor threw down the re-
cord book, threw an empty flask at the blind
wall outside his window, glanced at the
clock, and remarked, “Lord, look at the
time!” If the Lord had looked he would
have observed it was 5.40 p.m.
Jambing his hat down over his ears the
I ighting Editor strode to the door of the
Frivolity Editor’s room and kicked it open.
He was a noisy man. Gordon’s desk was
closed, the roses that had bloomed on top
of it all day had vanished, and there wore
no signs of a hat on the pegs along the wall.
So the Fighting Editor ambled down the
stairs and made for the private bar of The
Planet. He was just too late; Gordon had
departed for the Mercantile, where lie had
an appointment. But there again he was
too late, as Gordon had left two minutes
before. The Fighting Editor was angry.
He.had been seized with an idea. He wanted
the Frivolity Editor to come to the dog-fight
with him, and describe it in verse—the Milton
variety.
As the Fighting Editor had work to do
that night it was impossible to hunt round
the town for a missing poet. So he hied
him to a little cafe where the lamb was
always young and the sauce made with real
mint. There he spent a charming 45 min-
utes with a man who sold dog-biscuits for a
living, discussing the points of a war-hound
of some sort. Neither of them knew much
about battle-hounds, _ but they were both in-
terested. After the meal they were buying
two exorbitant cigars in the bar, when the
Fighting Editor heard the voice of the Fri-
volity man in an adjoining parlor speaking
in tones worthy of a Ca'sar. He was hold-
ing forth about poems and chiffons. And by
those tones the Fighting Editor knew Gor-
don was drunk.
After shaking hands with the dog-biscuit
merchant the Fighting Editor dived into the
parlor. There sat Gordon at a round table
with about twenty-odd sovereigns in a little
heap in front of him. He was endeavoring
to distribute largess to imaginary people
who weren’t there. In the midst of the
performance he fell asleep. His colleague
looked upon him with anger. Then he
searched him and took £22 from him, leaving
him. with Ids. Old. He gently pushed the
I rivolity Editor into the most comfortable
corner of the lounge and left him there in a
drowsy condition.
Fighting Editor was down to write a
brilliant description of a glove contest be-
tween two world-famous buck niggers; and it
was time for him to make for the place of
combat; so, much as he disliked leaving his
colleague in such a plight, it was the only
thing he could do. And in addition he had
to look at the dog-disturbance.
The referee gave the verdict to the uglier
nigger. Then Shed broke loose. Half the
audience proposed to tear him asunder on
the spot, and the other half howled that he
deserved a statue of ivory and gold for his
insight and “knowledge of the game.”
While the two factions howled derision at
each other and the attendants suppressed a
few willing mills among the audience, the
police quietly hustled the judge to his dress-
ing-room, and then despatched him home in
a surreptitious taxi-cab.
As usual, the press was about equally
divided, and the discussion as to the verdict
rolled from one bar to another ; then it pro-
ceeded in supper rooms, boomed down to an
all-night club, howled round a coffee-stall
outside the office of a great daily, and dis-
turbed the staff at its labors ; clamored back
to the club, and made its final efforts in a
Chinese eating-house.
At the dog-fight one animal ran stiff and
the other didn’t start.
The Fighting Editor rested from his
labors. W hen he found himself again it
was six a.m. He was on his own bed, but
not in it. He had removed all his wearing
apparel barring his boots and his hat, and
the latter, crowded down tightlv over his
ears, looked somewhat the worse for the
night’s toil. He decided to rest a while
longer, so he threw his hat under the bed.
He was just dozing off comfortably when
he remembered Gordon’s money. With an
exclamation he woke right up. scrambled out
of bed and dived into his hip pocket.
It was empty.
Frantically he searched every other pocket
he had—and all the coin he could discover
(Continued on next page.)


Affects tHe WHole System
No patient can live more than a few hours
when the kidneys cease to act.
For the kidneys are the blood-filters. When
they fail to act the blood is left in a poisoned
state.
The heart, the lungs, the digestive organs,
the brain and the nervous system all have to
depend upon the blood for their nourishment,
and they cannot be nourished by poisoned
blood. That is why kidney trouble is so
serious—the vital organs are always’ liable
to become involved.
The earlier symptoms of weak kidneys are:
Patient feels very drowsy, heavy and irrit-
able ; the sight is affected, and there may be
headache. Later, the watery swellings of
dropsy appear, there is pain in the loins and
back, or patient gets rheumatism. Nearly
every case is accompanied by some disturb-
ance of the urinary system, such as irregu-
larity in action, gravel or stone.
The advanced forms of kidney disease are
not curable, but in the earlier stages Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills often prove invalu-
able: Many bad cases of dropsy, stone, stop-
page caused by obstruction of the channels,
rheumatism and lumbago have been com-
pletely cured by this remedy, and patients
have reported themselves still well many
years later. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
arouse sluggish kidneys to a natural activity,
enabling them to keep the blood properly fil-
tered and to throw off the poisonous uric
acid and waste water, which cause so much
mischief when left too long in the system.
ar
f
1 Every
Picture
Tells a
Story."
KIDNEY TROUBLE OURED,
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
FsoAt GAMPERDbWN.
Mrs. <3. Gavin. 57 Briggs Street, Camper Sown;
Sydney; Sh#S; “Fbr hboht four years I suffered d
good deal from backache and kidney trouble, and
only those who have been afflicted in this way will
have any idea what I went through. The pain in
my back was so severe that 1 could hardly move,
especially in the morning, when it was often
almost ah impossibility for me to get out of bed
without assistance. Other symptoms of kidney
trouble were bad headaches and dizzy attacks, both
of which were very trying. 1 was treated by a
doctor for some time, and also tried different kidney
remedies I saw advertised, blit nothing did infe any
good. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pilis were at last
brought. Under my notice, and they, proved to be. the
Very thing 1 wanted. After taking ciiib bottlh. I
felt ever so miich better, and nine bottles of the
Pills cured me completely, and I have been free
from pain ever since. It is four years since I took
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, so my cure has been
-well tested.”
FROM BALMAIN
Mrs. W. Poultoii, 0 Campbell Street, Balmain*
Sydney, says : “My husband suffered terribly frdnl
backache and kidney trouble for gome time, The paing
in his back were often so bad that he could scarcely
move, and it was impossible for him to stoop to
lace his boots. If he tried to bend his back in any
way the pain was so awful that he could not help
screaming out. His ankles and legs swelled a good
deal, and he always felt dull and tired, and could
not get proper rest at night. The kidney secretions
were also affected, being thick and cloudy, with a
red sediment. He was really far from well, but
until he took Doan’s Backache Ivdney Pills
nothing did him any good. This remedy was
recommended to him, and it worked wonder's. After
taking two bottles there was a decided im-
provement, and by the time he had used seven
bottles of these famous Pills a perfect cure was
effected, and he has never suffered from backache
and kidney trouble since, a period of over six
months.”
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold
by all chemists and stores at 2/9 per
bottle, or post free on receipt of price
from Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
was a button, which isn’t really a coin. He
in a heap he stag-
gered over and drank two glasses of soda-
water- then hurled himself into bed and
went to sleep, though the heavens should
f II
1 nu f ~,,,1 (ho mm
tin m >V„™ she --Mg*- to <Uink
tea and be nursed back to sobriety.
But the Fighting Editor took the tea with
a steady hand; drank it without a tremor.
His eye was clear; and he was the incarna-
lion of serenity. Events had sobered him.
H ®. l e “l l wl ■ * i mi in be n t"t o take Ri? part of
the* exquisite listener. So he listened in his
sweetest manner, and by this ruse overcame
the bad impression created by the heap of
es.
ffii
worked through somewhere into the lining
They hadn t. Even his own half-ciown nad
s °£?’ i s~
Strange how lame realisation is attei
marriages. The imagination is always more
vivid than reality, and fiction better than
truth (wdierefore excuse any dullness about
this drab recital of cold fact!) ; because, of
course, all fiction is but an embellishment of
truth and fact. It was 10 a.m. when the
Fighting Editor walked into the room of
Gordon and found that handsome genius dis-
consolately chewing the handle of his pen
while he gazed with a puckered face on his
unresponsive desk.
“Hooray!” said the Fighting Editor,
cheerfully
“Please do nof lie hilarious, brother,”
said the Frivolity Editor. “An awful thing
has happened. Last night I presented a
crowd of drunken swabs I had never seen in
mv life before with about £2O. I believe I
begged them to take the cash because it was
weighing me down and breaking me up.
This morning, brother, it is weighing me up
and breaking me down. ‘Weighed in the
balance, and found wanting!’”
“Good heavens!” gasped the Fighting
Editor; “were you drunk?”
“Drunk—no,'drunk is not the word for it.
I was excited or hurried or something. I
arrived home this morning when it was
striking 4 a.m. I carried, over the bil-
lions of lejigues I had to traverse on stilts
to get home, a fair quantity of fish, some
very live cheese, two bottles of sixpenny
and a pickled cucumber. Rhodope, my wife,
loves pickled cucumber.
“Well, I went to sleep in the wash-house
and was quite happy in mv oblivion till my
darned dog came and licked mv face. That
awoke me with a start, and T got up and
kicked him hard as I could. Then I got so
mad that I determined Rhodone should hear
me. So. as she still feigned sleep. I got
madder still, broke in the French window,
opened it wide, fell through and discovered
that Rhodope was not there. Then I re-
membered that she was staying with friends
for a week.
“So I got into bed as I was and slept
gloriously. It was striking 7 a.m. when
I awoke with a mouth that was parched and
a throat like a lime-kiln. I reached for soda-
water and then clothes, and wandering down
the street a short way I found two hairs of
the dog. After that I felt much better and
grilled two chops, boiled four eggs and fried
some whiting. And now I’m feeling all right
if I only knew how to raise £2O or there-
abouts.”
“Most extraordinary,” gasped the Fighting
Editor. “Seems to me that some of you want
a man to lead you round on a string.”
“Not at all, mv boy,” Gordon replied seri-
ously enough. “My trouble is that someone got
me on a string yesterday, and this morning
I am trying to think of a reasonable money-
lender.”
“Well, don’t you think it is the height of
folly to allow yourself to get ‘sloshed’ with
all that money on you?”
“It is pretty rotten. Where did you get
to yesterday night? For some reason I
cannot remember now, I know my one desire
was to find you. I seemed to feel that all
my anxieties would cease if I could but meet
you. One glimpse of you would have
been the light of the world to me. But why
I cannot remember now. By the way, how
do you go about flying a kite?”
“Do you not think it is possible some of
your friends took your money and are keep-
ing it till they hear from you?”
“Heaven knows—if they wait to hear from
me I’ll never get it, as I do not know who I
was with.”
“Oh, if they don’t hear from you of course
they will return it without being asked, for
sure!”
“Not so sure of that. There is a small
infinity of possibilities about a case like
this.”
* * *
About midday the Fighting Editor went
up to the pub where he faintly remembered
seeing Gordon, and asked had the Frivolity
Editor been there the previous evening. He
was assured Gordon had been there and
made a nuisance of himself. He then in-
quired had he himself been there, and was
emphatically assured he had not. So he
went back to the office more perplexed than
ever. Just outside the office he met the
Social Editor, who looked very worried, and
steered him to Moses’s tobacco divan.
“Say, where did I leave you last night?”
said the Social Editor.
“Leave me! Why, I never saw you last
night.” said the Fighting Editor decisively.
“Well,” said the Social man, “that shows
how utterly unreliable you are. The last I
remember is getting into the great Pro-
moter’s car with you—you know, the fellow
who floated the Lost Dog mine and the Im-
perishable Insurance Co. —and going to a
restaurant with a very big bunch. But what
happened after that and how I got home I
cannot make out.”
“And where did I blow across your
track?” said the interested Fighting Editor.
“I heard your voice inside a coffee stall,
and I just peeped in to see if you were all
right, as you seemed to be talking a bit
land And vou were all wrong. So I said
I would look after you. But you re a- haid
doer; and in looking after you I got bus
myself.” . , , ,-t
Just then the conversation was interruptei
bv the arrival of the Old Man, and the sub-
ject bad to be dropped. Query:
the floater of the Imperishable Insmance
' 'in the afternoon the Fighting Editor ap-
proached a friendly Shvlock and raised £2-,
which lie handed to the delighted and sui
prised Frivolity Editor. _ The latte was so
relieved that lie straightway wrote two
wildly humorous poems and collected the
money for them. Then the Fighting Editor
went out sadly and hoisted himself aboard a
motor-car and went oft' to have a look a.t a
kennel of pugs newly arrived from the United
States
When he got back that evening he met
the Social Editor, his face radiant lhe
gloomy pug writer said something about Jiis
evidently having got over his troubles, the
Social man smiled and suggested a snack at
the Dago’s place.
Across some curried prawns and a bottle
of stout the Social Editor referred to the
night of horror. Said he :
“Quite bv accident I discovered that you
had your hip pocket bulged out with coin.
Afraid you might get away from me and tall
into the hands of brigands I held you up
and went through you ; got the sovs. and put
them in a pocket inside my vest for safety.
When I awoke this morning I was at. home,
but your sovereigns had gone. The wife did
not hear me come in, and I had no idea of
how I got there, and concluded I had spent
your cash hiring all-night taxis with dis-
astrous results.
“Well, this afternoon I went to a
money-lender, and after a lot of trouble bor-
rowed £22. I came to look for you, but dis-
covered you had gone out. There’s your £22.
But that is not all. Just after I had got
back from the ‘Christian Gentleman’ the
great Promoter arrived, and passed me the
original sovereigns. It was his car we rode
in to the restaurant, and before going
through you I took him into my confidence.
He decided it was a case of the inebriated
looking after the drunken, and as I got the
money out of your pocket I gave it to him
to count; and instead of putting it in my
lincket as I thought, he put it into his own.
Later on he sent me home in one car and
took the other fellows away in his own. In
fact, he was a regular fairy godmother.”
The Fighting Editor blinked at him across
the prawns and stout;. Then he took a long
drink, leaned back and said drily:—
“All these woes are due to a surplus of
fraternity. I found Gordon blithered and
took his cash for safe keeping. Then I got
stung, and you take what you think is my
cash for safe keeping. Then you go to the
woods and the Imperishable Insurance Co.
fellow takes your cash—for safe keeping.
Meanwhile two money-lenders are in pocket.
It seems to me that our poet upstairs ought
to lead a better life.”
C. A. JEFFRIES.
The Moving Host.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
the summer months are done
V V And the autumn midway through,
' * Then, behold ! their march begun —-
Silver legions in the blue.
All along the sounding coast
Where the breakers break in snow,
Head to tail, a gleaming host,
North and ever north they go.
When a gale has hurtled north,
And the skies are wet and grey,
You may see them issue forth
From each coastal creek and bay.
For their biding time has gone,
And their questing time is here,
And great Instinct calls them on,
And her call is loud and clear.
For her call is like the voice
Of a siren fond and fey,
And they have no other choice
Than to hearken and obey.
For of old their path was laid,
Cycles since their course was set,
And they take it unafraid,
And they follow without fret.
For they must abide the law,
Though the ways be grey and wrath,
And grim Death with mesh and maw
May await upon their path.
Where the land-locked waters slept,
Over rock and sand and weed ;
Silver-gilled they flashed and leapt—
Broke the calm with sudden speed.
Under cliffs of crumbling stone,
Where the depths are green as grass,
And the sea-hawk broods alone,
You may see the hostings pass.
For they dare the waves that rage,
And they move, a shining host
On their long, long pilgrimage
Up the many-harbored coast.
Past tall headlands, grim ard grey,
Massed and many, move their ranks,
While the feasting monsters trey,
Red of maw, upon their flanks.
Under sun and moon and star
As they journey, shoal on shoal—
Havoc hastens from afar.
Tooth and talon take their toll.
While the strong tides flowing, lift
Their great burthen, noon and night,
Shoulders set against the drift —
North and north they ever fight.
Thus the mullet on the coast,
In the fullness of their days
As a many-legioned host —
Fill the ocean’s marching-ways.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Westinghouse - Cross
FOUR-CYCLE
Marine Oil Engines
♦
As>Ssi
.. . for .. .
Fishing Boats,
Cargo Vessels,
Large Auxiliaries,
Barges, etc.,
. . . are ...
Simply Constructed,
Effectively Controlled,
and Extremely Flexible
in Speed and Power.
BUILT IN SIZES FROM
7 to 120 H.P.
Write for Particulars to
The Westiaghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane. Oqucohl W<sSt, N. S. WftlCS
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington. [3
WOODWORKING MACHINES
OF QUALITY
Manufactured by
BOUNDERS,
STOCKHOLM,
r
m
have characteristics Hot found in other makes. They are particularly mas-
sive in construction”—every part is easily accessible, and they are fitted with
Ball Bearings throughout.
Catalogue and list of Australian users on application.
The AustraJ Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Brisbane: GO&SiOi FAIME LTD. Melbourne: NOYES BROS.
\ *. * / / x .
• ’• ’• ■ ' - • •• •' x*
Bring
Lime -froit Juice. ■
s to your lips the juice
of the lime fruit.
r lt is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing.
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped
from London.
MONTS EBSJ&.T is soli by ill biding StorskMjwr*.
d
What a Clay Pigeon
Shooter Says:
“I like Pemington:UMC arms and am-
munition because the pe/ningtQfclJMC
Company are the recognized leaders
in catering to the needs of trap shooters.
Their regular loads and special trap loads
are based upon a careful study and
analysis of the trap shooters’ requirements.
My scores gradually improved when I
started using shotgun
cartridges and for long distance “breaks”
the results are simply astounding”.
The Best Clay Pigeon Shooters Use
ďf
JPemi/ieton-UMC
Remington Arms —
Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
New York London
Catalogs free
&
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d.
IT IS TIME
which is the test of all things—including proprietary medicines. The enormous
and ever-increasing popularity of Beecham’s Pills which, after a service of
seventy years, still hold their own against all rivals, is the most genuine proof of
the sterling worth of this excellent preparation. It must of necessity be a really
good thing to withstand the tremendous pressure of modern competition and
maintain a superiority so distinct and indisputable. With the flight of years
Beecham’s Pills have become known far and wide as the best medicine
TO TAKE
for those numerous ailments arising from a disturbed digestive system. For
biliousness, constipation, dizziness, flatulence, heartburn, headache, loss of
appetite and sluggish action of liver and kidneys, there is nothing to beat
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Sold everywhere In boxes, price 1/1\ {56 pills) & 2/9 {l6B pills).
Magnesia
m
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label. ,
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
agents for
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
d
ď
LATEST 8-TONE
Mears Ear-phone
reproducing
that degree
in the vest
The final triumph of the inventor of the first successful multi-tone
Ear-phone. IF YOU ARE DEAF, this perfected instrument will enable
you to hear DISTINCTLY, PERFECTLY.
Eight Tones! 8 different adjustments to suit every condi-
tion of the ear. Instantly changed by a touch of the
finger Just as easily and as satisfactorily regulated tor
the hearing as field-glasses are for the sight. Thus ensur-
ing perfect hearing in all degrees of deafness.
The Mears Ear-phone is based on the microphomc sound-
principle. Highly sensitive and self-adjusting it intensifies the faintest sounds to just
required in ordinary conversation, or in the Church or Lecture Hall. Comfortably earned
pocket or pinned to the blouse. Call and test it free, or write for full paiticulars.
MELBOURNE: L. G. Callaway & Down,' Tuckett Chambers, 361 Collins Street.
BRISBANE: Carl Zoeller Ltd., 246 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE: Chas. Balfour, Central Chambers, Charles Street.
PERTH: Alf. B. Hadden, 36 Barrack Street.
HOBART: Chas. Davis Ltd., Elizabeth Street.
AUCKLAND: Clem Bartley, 8 Ponsonby Road.
Co. Inc., 45 West 34th St., New York, U.S.A.
Mears Ear-
Australasian
Representative—
A. E. SLADE,
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 George Street,
SYDNEY.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE. Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all
cases of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
Price, 3/- per box, or a course of 8
Boxes for £l. Post free under
plain cover.
On Sale at all Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
f
SYDNEY: John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE:Briscoe*Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE: Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH: McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF?
VOU begin to
* look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyer’9
Hail* Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON'T LOOK OLD.
d
$
£
&
<
n
$
Alcock
and
Pierce’s
Fishing Tackle
Is just as good as
“AP” celebrated
Guns & Cartridges
Get Preliminary List now, so as to
get your Tackle into shape ready
for the Season.
This Department is in charge of one of
the most experienced anglers m Victoria,
and any i rtf or mat ion you want, write to
“’Angling Department,”
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
318 Little Collins St. Melbourne


THE “TRIUMPHATOR ”
mu
mu
CALCULATING MACHINE
is the greatest TIME-SAVING, BRAIN-SAVING
and MONEY-SAVING device that has ever been
introduced to the Office World.
The only machine that always shows you the
actual figures you are working with.
Illustrated Catalogue on application.
A. P. Greenfield 8 Co. Ltd.
189 Ceorgre Bt.,
BRISBANE.
ďf
FOR
d
r BUY 1
WHOLE
BOTTLES
A
w.
9
SCHNAPPS
Hardie’s Genuine
Used In place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID g ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES HARP IE * CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
and at Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
The
Importance
of
Efficient
Insulation I
The importance of efficient insulation, in many cases, is not realised. Great
care is shown in the selection of a steam plant to ensure the greatest economy,
yet the insulation which is of equal importance is in many cases partly neg-
lected. If you strive to make a saving in the steam consumption of your
engine, why not make certain that it is not wasted again through faulty in-
sulation? The claims we make as to the exceptional efficiency of Newall’s
Coverings are fully borne out by actual test, and, further, by the enormous
sales, including repeat orders, and we do not know of a single instance where
any other covering has been used once Newall’s have been tried.
_ The Ultimo and White Bay Power Houses are insulated throughout with
Newall s Coverings, and this material has also been adopted exclusively by the
N.S.W. and Victorian Governments. These are facts which will tend to fur-
ther prove our claims. The innumerable advantages of this material over all
other forms of lagging are described in interesting booklet, which we will be
pleased to mail you along with samples.
NEWALL’B
MAGNESIA SEOTIONAL
STEAM PIPE & BOILER
COVERINGS.
J. WILD RIDGE 8 SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt Stmt, Sydney; Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Wellington, N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRON FOUNDER S, etc.
Manufaoturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Flumlng,
Patent Ne/yambo " Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Flumlng, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought iron Work.
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
■ J«XiT<
m
W<B
ml
%
H'lhimm dll / x
V\W
FOR THE PROSPECTOR.
HORSE-POWER HOISTING WHIM
The simpliexty, facility for easy transport, and relative cheapness of these little Hoists
. them to the Miner requiring a small, efficient Winding Plant. Designed principally
for Mining purposes, it will raise a bucket with 500-7001 b. sixty to seventy feet per minute.
The Hoisting Drum is absolutely under the control of the man at the shaft, and can be thrown
m and out of gear, and he can land or lower the bucket on the brake as safely and conveniently
as by a steam-power hoist. An automatic safety device is attached to the end of the drum to
prevent accident, the dog always being in gear when the bucket is being raised.
Drum carries 500 feet or more of % Steel Wire Rope.
Total Shipping weight is 12001 b., but no one piece weighs over 2501 b.
If you are interested, allow us to send you full descriptive Circular, with Prices.
MAKERS ;
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LIMITED,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants, 60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY AUSTRALIAN WORKMEN.
BILLETT’S PATENT HOTAIR TUYERE
m's
m
m
.i.-'
effects a saving of 25 per cent, in fuel.
Heats the Iron in one-third less time. Thousands in use throughout Australia.
PRICES REDUCED:
No. 1, 30/- No. 2, 35/- No. 3, 45/-
Obtainable at all Hardware Houses or from Sole Licensees—
$
n
n i T 3
N. QUTHRIDGE LTD,, Sydney, Melbourne.
